ee

tpt etn 08 0 te

eB eR ee ; ie ie * oaty af
BP oe A ea ‘ is sone ne ek
LP At 80888 Se Sennen

San

~ me ee : oe s)

#7 Fg feo. >
Se tataenaned

2
SHY a AEN co
x A ea an ae i o A .
‘ ae RS za ih ANG ,
ARN 8 a . . ok eS ;
BANK Ris ‘ , , -
. Se . ae . . R ¥
‘y , ; m yi y RAR . “i a x

Be ty we
. 2 7

. e
: -

a ‘3
i AS a . a At) RA : ae si x
aS i AND ‘ we \ ety mG “an ee a
: - ee | \ a ; i : . - a a ne ,
si) A . Pa ma Y _ PANNE } : EAN o oe a
AY Bw ocd

i

Oye o a

ah
in

)
ue . . oo
eo ah

we ACA .
ae VAY: x i , a SO Da at
DS ; YEON NG . s

. . SRN
uh en - ; : ONAN ON: SANA
MS NK i AHO i ayy SA t

* «

* _ :
SANA ‘t ae -
ROR
Ai AN .
BAN a
‘i
NAY

a
SEES ees
2 - sa
or

FLOP As a“
ew a
ae -
= genre
Ss
Aone : Se

2S
a
ee
on
Deane

ae ane!
Sor
Se
Tarn en

aa
fe
Nee:

2

BE
AoA
Sas
a
eer nate

Ni

Nit) ‘ ANS
a
at)
PAN a

a

——_ Z

prea
nae a5 Ze

Sane

\)

AN
SN 2 . ANE
* ,
a
SAGAN ii
ARN)
\

y ‘i
‘
‘ Ay
.

SON

wi RAN
NY NN
aN

_ .

a

rae
Sane pos ae
Scot ears

—~, —,
£5
are Ceeee neo ae
“s es:
ee

. uN
i
ah :

. y

Pons
Ae
Re

Ov ms

‘3
oh 33 a . he oy
f “ \ . ON .
NOY Aaa ;
< :

rer
as
a Sree

nN a i . Bt st
‘ van o

ee er
es ie: EPS POLLO ORE AOR Se cen ere = “4 Nenaees in cemt Nat Bg — = € Sit aka om Sep ~
oes ree es eran Sao: = 3 ji Seyi aoe See
= De Rone eer nssaecerac vee pono PERO RO “- oes one % 2 fs Aas aS as = Sah x
4 > rere Sore - <5 . — SSS we
ee aera y =< , r 2 oa ae
oe
ee
aon Cans
Library
State School of Mines,
4

Rapid City, South Dakota.
Hy "
“sft f 4
‘ ui :

i ”
a
Vy
/ r

ba nel Ae
un nl (Paty

ANNUAL REPORT

OF THE

BOA D OF RHGHNIES

OF THE

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION,

SHOWING

THE OPERATIONS, EXPENDITURES, AND CONDITION
OF THE INSTITUTION

FOR

ce Fd EN ee SAN eine Mee wom e

WAS BIN Git OW
GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFIOE,
1884.
[FORTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS, SECOND SESSION. ]

CONGRESS OF THE UNITED STATES.
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
February 20, 1883.

Resolved by the House of Representatives (the Senate concurring), That fifteen thousand
five hundred and sixty copies of the Report of the Smithsonian Institution far the
year 1882 be printed; two thousand five hundred copies of which shall be for the use
of the Senate, six thousand and sixty copies for the use of the House of Representa-
tives, and seven thousand copies for the use of the Smithsonian Institution.

Attest :
Epw. McPHERSON,

Clerk.

IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES,
March 2, 1883.
Resolved, That the Senate agree to the foregoing resolution of the House of Repre-
sentatives.

Attest:
F, E. SHOBER,

Acting Secretary.
LE Pre

FROM THE

SECRETARY OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION,

ACCOMPANYING

The annual report of the Board of Regents of that Institution for the year
1882.

JANUARY 22, 1883.—Ordered to be printed.

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION,
Washington, D. C., January 19, 1883.
Sir: In accordance with section 5593 of the Revised Statutes of the
United States, I have the honor in behalf of the Board of Regents to
submit to Congress the annual report of the operations, expénditures,
and condition of the Smithsonian Institution for the year 1882.
I have the honor to be, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
SPENCER F. BAIRD,
Secretary Smithsonian Institution.

Hon. J. W. KEIFER,
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
ANNUAL REPORT OF THE SMITHSONIAN baie ttl FOR
THE YEAR 1882.

SUBJECTS.

1. Proceedings of the Board of Regents for the session of January,
1883.

2. Report of the Executive Committee, exhibiting the financial affairs
of the Institution, including a statement of the Smithson fund, the re-
ceipts and expenditures for the year 1882, and the estimates for 1883.

3. Annual report of the Secretary, giving an account of the operations
and condition of the Institution for the year 1882, with the statistics of
collections, exchanges, We.

4, General appendix, comprising a record of recent progress in the
principal departments of science, and special memoirs, original and
selected, of interest to collaborators and correspondents of the institu-
tion, teachers, and others engaged in the promotion of knowledge.

IV
CONTENTS.

Page.
Resolution of Congress to print extra copies of the report....---- .----.------ ii
Letter from the Secretary, submitting the Annual Report of the Regents to
WONPTESS Ea = sccmeces ste cn so ce Mules Sonics ese see sich oe ae were Sacncmieweecie cease lii
Generalisubjects of the Annual Reportjsss--1--2 <1) soos oes se ces See els iv
Contents ofthe Reports cose mecoss tceeeeisoete seater) oe (sinecis ecleeminc eae Vv
Heistiof Mlnstratlions <<<, cso a2. .chesorsces ssisc seeiee cone been cidecesieecinsieisas viii
Recentsof phe Smithsonian Institutions <---eselsce soe aes a= orien eae xe
JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS OF THE BOARD OF REGENTS...--.-----.------------ xi
REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE for the year 1882 ....-.....--.-.----- xiv
Condition‘of the funds; January, (88a rcon sess eco o sae eeeee ee casice xiv
Receipts, torithe year acces ccece eestor cease Ree aD eee ad AL SI xiv
1D pg Hep HATH) SKOOL) Vise oP eG Gags on oeoo noel ones Gone coopogUccunonesbSecue XV
Bstimaptes tor the year 1S83)-2 (2-2. 5-2-4 cas cer oa enc-iassnensesiceeea==see == xv
National Musuem appropriations by Congress ...-.-..---..--.-------------- xvi
AD PLO priatlOusPLOolsh LON O10 Rye ae cclaas ieee eeiesiee eee aie = alas eet ere xvi
AP DLOp Mc cOUSs OnE KCHAN PES ean else melts esis wate weeereiee sneer eines tere xvii
Members ex officio of the ‘‘ Establishment,” and Regents of the Institution... xix
Officers and assistants of the Institution, and of the National Museum --...... Sox:
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.
PELE OMUDES ON TAN GUNS TLR UT LON) seine eta oi tas icale ce eteela aie sees ee lea leeraaetala 1
Tro GdUCtOLyentactsec oe we ere aes oe esta nate Pie econ eae e eee etiam 1
JUGS ay ISH Rene moroba cee OSES Mec Uee eaten Hens EeEeOLCoodenEaoos 1
Newaherenis Of thernstinmiOnescseasetnamaciem sees ee ieee te als cetera te 2
Meotnps on the board Of topents).< -2o6o- ot s- sce cc caes se cae wee ac sen 2
IVAN COSpescceeee Hoe ae ae e ate eine etnies eeiecn ce soa seamen 3
Condition of theyfand )januarye dl Ccomese= eee ees sere a eae eae ae 3
Boatl dam psp pes te sen tarsi soles ow craycs aie isielclane claiene aicintau/sinwajsia eet siala acta sans eter 3
SMU HsONTaN DUG ess she ce oeleee ee Se iste e eee a= ieee setae 3
Steps taken toward having the east wing remodelled and fire-proofed - 4
Nation aleMusenmini til din piesa ct sien ae epee eet eee yal ela 5
ATMOLY DUTLGINO aren 2 eee se ad are anes encietue laser states aw iner seats 6
aboratoryorm Naturalvcistoryeseces sce clioserioe es aelee eee eee 7
Need of an additional Museum building ...........-..----..-------.- yj
Meetings of Solentific Bodies). cou. cc csnee edeccoen ae names teers someeaes 10
onus work of tho Insbicntion soso ncclet omcrsasase aes staewa soccieene 11
AGMINISHAUON aoe ee cee neces cleseseecesceeceie ese. Se ees cae 11
Correspondencetewaesesee sean oer etiam alone teicioiises Sees atenata er nnats 11
Rescarches and Mx plorations,: .. 22+ 22¢c-Giolecle sees cs sn v= Pe a Bae dies 11
Greemlandie naa scice eae secee ea cree yeaa eee ato ee seine sat cniee cose leaee 13
MATA ORG wesc sacs ss cee eer Sees sence ison cemein cence a\eus se noaere sells 13
Archicl Oceans sche e aoc lies cam cipessia saeco tessicesicce waa ce casccesseseas 14
ANAS Kan reac cele caesar sicdie) leeleiae nelemiacicae ee teicms aecalesceuwee lace sas 14

FS vray dn CVO nieve) LA sae eee aR aaa 5 eg UR Sa Sy SR ee UE 15
‘

VI CONTENTS.

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.—THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION—Continued.
Researches and Explorations:

Commander Islands)-2.6-s22ss26 cose seco aa eee ee ene sel eee eee
Oregon and Washington Territory ..-.-.-.---.---------------------------
California’ 252232622022 han cosines Coot iea eee Eee ere eae tases
Lower 'Califernia :.. 222-0 5..-c 2s sec ace Occics seco eee eee Re eeeee eee
New) Mexico, and Arizona . 252 -) (oo. Sone c celeene ee eee ee
Interior of the iUnited! States). 2... sas too eee eee eeeetee
024 Fay alt F: peo AA ASE OT AOR eC On Ene DAR SOCDONISOS Sab iscng GHSS eS oebo cE ccoasine
Eastern portion of the United States ..........-.....---...----.-------
Wrestilmdies\cesetncaeens oe a ate meester olor te ee ate te ape een t= ee eed

Central America soso ink cece ace ccs nes onan doen eee en sea eee
South ‘Americas. sc. bacb 4 Cokes ceca cee cnc Cetera elem niee ee eee meee
(Ome Pang bd iy ines eta See Re AR Gea Hons sesoodecdneess sosne- -ssbec
Publications, < Ask seem we decency eis my erelel sre erste eee ee oer eee

Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge .........--..-----.---------
Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections.............--..--..--...-----
Twenty-secOnd:VOlUMO cee cere aes eee ae eee eee ees
Twenty-third volume!.522.. 722-02. eas ciee eee ee esa eee eee
Bulletins of the National: Museum: <2. -2.-..--.---<---- ------ -=-.-
Proceedings of the National Museum .........-....-.--.-.-------
Smithsonian Annual Reportics -s--1-->- oe eee eae eeeaeee ee ener
Contentsof Report fortes eases, see saciese ease eee eeeereaee ear

Astronomical announcements by telegraph...........-----.--------------
[Odd nny Wee See renee res8 Sasa OSHOC enol Hc; — Sa acOe a be OSE Seis soon eee et =

Internationalexchanpes.2 225. tosses eae heen nara neem eee
Government exchanges !.2-7.2 oaa4 ene eine ee eee ena eee

LGTY hh Ze RR CO ROR AOS CERO cen Se ASS D a Sab pop HataEEnoaccce oods sabe: Z

Additions: fortheyearsn. 2. soe soa ee eee eee cee oe eats eee eee eee

Necrologyi.< scccosee geese a eameees oe Spe h a eee ee

Mrs. Henry -s-5:ccs tee cahoots bees ocle nee ee ae eee eee oes
IDE ee ele EN de aap Acooacos eee Nano seoe bang soc eo ¢sGSsoce use ses sesces
A) amis yale enon aaa eo ces socaco se Jo nacdoo cSceSbUCorg= eoosebescs
Moewisl: Morgan: oes 3-2 = = oon serine ee Gee ee apes a= ee ee eee
Henry Drapeniscs so. soe ces ee ee a eee eee ee eee
JOSeply Dy ee wim ame eee ee a eae eee eee ee ele ea et er
HP TrAancisco, Sumi Chas tiass-s- = =e ee ee eee eee e

Miscellaneous z.cc acs cined cetes Hee oct eee CR eee eee ee eee ae eee

Mho Mercer Bequestiesssee seca sa eee eee ree een = ees
IE EEE GG) genes eee oe Sac acces Sood coe ae socop chest ames FSsomae sacc
Special objects received) 2-225 essa oon 2 peion= aon Saae e le eee

NATIONAL MUSBUM 2. ceux coec cc atnct operas nee Seen eect seek cesenine teens ats
BUREAU: OF PM THNOLOGN 2222 ne eee eae ere ier ie ele Salas el setae eet aren ete
UNITED. STATES. GROLOGICAT, SURVEY, -- 22 co -en ace enees escee ees eee ee eme ee

UNITED STATES FISH COMMISSION .<i212 25 cee ce Soteee eee ee ee eeee seater eects
General objectsiand results) eee ee ee ne ee aeeie eee ee eee eee

Boyes Jha eastern ret et re de ee ee
Bulletin o£ the FishiCommission: =: see. seen eee ee ee eee anes

Fisheries Census 62. 282 ec SS Se ete eies Nerac sc oeeie woe hata area aioe ee aiaaee
The London International Fisheries Exhibition .............---.---------
CONTENTS. VII

Page.

APPENDIX TO THH REPORT OV THE) SECRETARY. --< 5... ccc. s0csceccsses oo seee- 57
Correspondence on Astronomical Announcements......-..----..-----.------ 57
Report on Exchanges for 1882....-.....---..---- See ee ahh ee SRST REESE 77
Revisionvot last of Correspondents: accesses se Stee sso See aos ence eoesee oa ao
ere ts tortorelgens (LANSMISSION sas oeem cae saioemeainin eae cee miemeialse el 82
iReveiptator domestic transmission... 1. )(oceiss jose ss ois sjae = Selec as cles 35
Receiptsiom Government transmission sa s-5ssc ce 2 eee ee ee cicle enema 86
HOLET OMG OLANSIOISS] ONS partes Seete eee sisal aerersiae ae einer eras ee sera oats 86
SHippimpiaACents eee sis os ys = soos eieisiae ws ss mele o a nals oe aciecloise aia lerepealaeh 90
DOMES IC ITAUSHUISSIONSe eee Ws ee essere eee nee eee Steet ome 92

GOvermimontiransMiuiselONnses. oss. He ee eno elas aires aires aalels Sales ce eee LOS
Hist Gmomecialepublicahionss «ss snues setae ook nee eee eas lcicest an) VLOG

Report of Assistant Director of the U. S. National Museum for 1882 ........ 119
Museum brary ia soe acca seers econ cee SRO ORC acon RES SeHaeOABoae 121
Publicationstoft-the Museumsassen esses coee see cee coece sesso se a= 121
WDepariment.of the: Curatorssssse eee) oleae sess sacivscee Selec 127

Appendix A. List of officers of the Museum for 1882..........--.- 167
Appendix B. Bibliography of Museum work for 1882 ......-.----. 167
Appendix C. Accessions to Museum in 1882 .......-............-- 195
Appendix D. List of contributors to the Museum for 1882..--...-- 231
ACTS AND RESOLUTIONS OF CONGRESS relative to the Smithsonian Institution
and ‘National Museum'=- 2. 2scac sos osacate Secale wos cla creeeeseone cet osaes 264

GENERAL APPENDIX.

ie—RECORD) OF RECENT SCIENTIFIC PROGRESS) << cose s2>-sicee oe oo. = elo siaee es cle 273
nitrodwetions by iS: B. bards. 228 cence cc ee aco Gare ole teeaottercinynie is ei -tete = 273
AS PLOMOM Yn! DY hiss) OLGOMta\-/-e\ciomnis siejec (sisi aise wise laesis)saasinweisiami seein) Molla)
Geolosyaioy We terny, HOM bois alse aelemcinterscier «cel stan e/siele seis iaisiaiaiapelayninys 325
Geocrap liye Dygiian Mp Grewia etm aes yey ee ae Noam esisteere catch ntoetet terete 347
Meteorology, etc., by Cleveland Abbe... sce 2 seein ee see meses cen aT OOD
PEVSLCHe DiVo Crow tS AL KOE tales tennis crs apie mina seine neeltais ee Sensoeercisie's 459
Chemisiry, by,d. Carrington bolton... 6. - sss. sss se seo = Sener 509
ilingraulopaye lon IDK eno lSb UD PINEIRG CARS Caddo se Sboooo ceen boeaeees sone oeeaL 533
BO Can ye MOVs Wicn Gran LOW! socian atsieiceynsin see) eis eial-t- iy tee sek eee arte een OO
Zooln oy. Dy) HCOOOLOIGM oes ccam coe ne om Ge aia cece ema e) eafains sonia ee yi OO
FATIDEODOLOD yaya Ost pM As OM jc a lcteate soaloeeinanlal mee aie arneet ate ak atic

[DL SI TUS COTE AONP COL eFS) TONSIL oo ae Se ee RE Se ee ere peo oase eos | Mae
Papersrelating to-Anthropolog yen. <\-2 25 x2 since cae cele ale elon em ainrats el otesi Sate 675

The Guatuso Indians of Costa Rica, by Leon Fernandez --.....--...----. 675

INOUE TOs aay LEN AVS COL SS eo ee NS AO eee ce Sac mron naecor 677
Remainsun) White iver Canon, bya kv. U. BLO j- 22-5. y-ececs meee ae 681
Remains in fowa (Henry County), by George C. Van Allen .---..,.-...- 682
Remains in Illinois (Carroll County), by James M. Williamson .....----. 685
Remains in Illinois (Mississippi bottom), by Wm. McAdams .-.-.-...-.--- 684
Remains in Illinois (near Naples), by John G. Henderson... -.-...-...----- 686
Remains in Indiana (Franklin County), by G. W. Homsher -......---.---- 721
Remains in Indiana (White Water River), by G. W. Homsher ...-...-.--. 728
Remains in Ohio (Butler County), by J. P. MacLean .......5.....-.--.- 752
Remains in Ohio (Blennerhassett’s Island), by J. P. MacLean.--.....-.-- 759
Remains in Tennessee (Carrol County), by James M. Null.......---..--- 768
Remains in Georgia (Putnam County), by Benjamin W. Kent -..--.,..--.-- 770
Remamsanlorida, by, J. Praneis| Le'Barones 322. 222. oes e sec 771

Remains in Florida (gold and silver ornaments), by J. Francis Le Baron. 791
VIIl

MISCELLANEOUS PAPERS—C

Remains in Florida (Charlotte Harbor), by M. H. Simons
Remains in Maryland (Washington County), by John P. Smith
Remains in Massachusetts (near Provincetown), by H. E. Case
Explorations in Central America, by J. F. Bransford

CONTENTS.

ontinued.

Abstracts from Anthropological correspondence ..-.-..----.-----.--------

INDEX to the volume...-..

ee ee eee

LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS.

Terrestrial Electrical Currents (Meteorology, by C. Abbe):

Section of the Barth------: 222252. oo oon oon ow one cee ens oon ===
Mound-remains in Illinois (by John G. Henderson):

Bigs oh: Map yee eras ie ene ae aes are ara cele eta cee

Fig.

Fig.

Oe ayamalGye [Ninh setae ceesou oe ceed cbocoucEse coosedosESonSnsene os
Fig. 3. Section of mound ..---..---------------+-+--2+-----+ +2222 erro
A, Raccoon pipe -..- .----2 0 -- ene ee eee occ e eens ee eens cone ee enee

Fig. 5. Turtle pipe ---..----- -----. ---- --- 222 nee eee eee eee eee eee eee
Fig. 6. Eagle pipe (a, b)-.----.------ ---- 22 eee eee cee ee eee eee eee eee ee
Fig. 7. Oval mound . ..-..------------- 222 ee 2222 eee eee cree eee eee ee eee
Fig. 8. Diagram of mound..--.. SABA USSOUDE OME DE SER Ca mbGoob Soosidgonso ec

Fig. 9. ‘‘Sun-symbol”

ee

Fig. 10. Copper axes, &c. (a, b,c, d, @) ---------------+----- aabersecenaejten
Fig. 11. Chipped knife ...--.-.-.-----. -- +--+ 22-225 pene teen ee ee eee eee
Fig. 12. Arrow-heads (a, b, ¢,d)..----- ---- 2+ +--+ ------ eee eee eee nee ee ee eee

Fig. 13. Spear-heads (a,

DSO) ater ae Reem SO noo Ser Obonbd Cond ee SmErCnS so Sadi

Fig. 14. Pipe and flaked ornament (a,b) .----.-----------+---------+--+++-

Fig. 15. Bone awl (a,b)

ee ee ee

Fig. 16. Bone awl........---- ---- seen cee cee eee ce ee ce eee eee cree:
Fig.17. Bone of elk.... ..---- 0-2-2 oe eee eee eens cen cern cen cee e eee e eee
Fig.18. Bone awl.-...-.-...----- BUS ORES GIOUCA SE Asi SoauSobockte sbecesoae

Fig. 19. Chert arrow-head...--. .2222. 22-00 cone ones eee nnn enn es eenn ne = =
SGU eee 8 ee ME ere eee tea eer

Fig. 20. Pyrula drinkin

Fig. 21. Earthen pot -..-. 22-22. 2-200 poe ene cone cnn n conn ne eee ene ween ne enee

Fig. 22. Pottery fragme

EAE CHU D es oe no acc oao nbescuceodics oseciccoo noc

Fig. 23. Pottery .----- -22coc cos cence wen ne cen nas cee cne sawens sm enee enn.
Fig. 24. Mound crania (a, b,¢,d,¢,f) -.---.------ ---- ---+ eene ene e oo - =e
Fig. 25. Mound crania (a,b,c, d,e,f) ..---.--2------- 222+ 220 ene eee eee ee
Fig. 26. Mound crania (a, b,c, d,e,f) .-.--..----. ---- 22 ---- +--+ == eo eo ee

Fig. 27. Outlines of crani

MIA 222 co ecw cc cee co wees ween es ce cee ces oc ce ce cece

Fig. 28. European objects in mound ..-.................-----------------

Fig. 29. Pictographs .--

were eee ne ee ee

Remains in Indiana (by G. W. Fomehoryt

Glidwell mound..-.-..-..
Fig. 1. Copper bracelet

ee ee ee ee ee ee ee

ee ded

Page

794
796
799
803
826

831
LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS.

Remains in Indiana—Continued.

Fig.
Fig.
Fig.
Fig.
Fig.
Fig.
Fig.
Fig.
Fig.

SE MSO DIUG MEE 252 eS Soe AE oe eines ie oR eat eet alee BE SS
GF ORC NAME a tetra Seine oj etney ane amas eat saua tine su ciclue oe ee ole Se
ARATE ONG ME ODT 2 aya Syste a) Santee seca eres cieora eke ENV ERS nih i ea ata I ST
Ottery rap INCOM Gy ccnt aS ie since ncese ecem stomata st masa k eee
CS UTM CLI gee A aya hy esa ce erate aera ce acer ete ee RUBLE

DAAM

1 BGT ee aE AS OS Geena Beso hin atin Seer taal Sse Re Sea ea uep eae ut ects
Ome CherGiehip sacar c/s. hera sean eeeenee sole tee eee ele me ieee oa
EONS LADO en SORLOH Gn = costae cc neevene ane sae Sra Se ceaacicce a sels sateen.

Remains in Ohio (by J. P. MacLean):
IMA Sea hesicte erie = eis cisins sino ais crass statesmen eieisicic ra sine clay cinaealiselarler een mee
REGENTS OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION.

By the organizing act approved August 10, 1846, Revised Statutes,
title Ixxili, section 5580, “‘The business of the Institution shall be con-
ducted at the city of Washington by a Board of Regents, named the
Regents of the Smithsonian Institution, to be composed of the Vic»-
President, the Chief Justice of the United States [and the Governor ot
the District of Columbia], three members of the Senate, and three mem-
bers of the House of Representatives, together with six other persons,
other than members of Congress, two of whom shall be resident in the
city of Washington, and the other four shall be inhabitants of some
State, but no two of them of the same State.”

REGENTS FOR THE YEAR 1882.
Term expires.
The Vice-President :

IDyauny IDNA (Gian) WEIS) 5 ae oe potaoo SoShab osanne Sse ose obbode Saticss Mar. 4, 1883
The Chief Justice, MorrRIson R. WAITE.

United States Senators:

GKORGEVE. Hoar Grom Bebs2ls 188). stece.s sce fae ea eee ete ester Mar. 4, 1883

NATHANIEE 2. anne (rom) May WlOs 138i) Sosssceesesemecicce cea Mar. 4, 1885

Sanu) B.. Many (irom: May LOSS) ee sees eo aeataee sree eee Mar. 4, 1887
Members of the House of Representatives :

IN(AG Vannes eG), UD ao (ek ee SORA os one coodau basech agudacuscdcone Dee. 26, 1883

IDVARIN 13), AEANAUOS, Sooo dGd RSs codd seSSe a se shsncodses soso ceeessadace Dec. 26, 1883

Syaotonnig Sh COOr es bec6 cha ceb es b5 Accs son noscao sted eseseddsss st Dec. 26, 1883
Citizens of Washington:

PRIMR PARKER (appoimbed! in ASG) )Cocessicaice se eemaeiseeiseiaeta sere Dee. 19, 1885

WILLIAM T. SHERMAN (appointed in 1871)..-.-...--..--...----.--- Mar. 25, 1885
Citizens of a State:

JOHN MAcLEAN, of New Jersey (appointed in 1868) .........--..... Dec. 19, 1885

Asa GRAY, of Massachusetts (appointed in 1874)................... Dec. 19, 1885

HENRY Coppsée, of Pennsylvania (appointed in 1874) .........--..-- Dee. 19, 1885

NoauH Porter, of Connecticut (appointed in 1878)....-......-----.- Jan. 26, 1884

Morrison R, WaAITE, Chancellor of the Institution and President of the Board of
Regents.
x
JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS OF THE BOARD OF REGENTS OF
THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION,

WASHINGTON, January 17, 1883.

In accordance with a resolution of the Board of Regents of the Smith-
sonian Institution fixing the time of the annual session on the third
Wednesday in January of each year, the Board met to-day at 10 o’clock
a. Tm.

Present: The Chancellor, Chief Justice M. R. WaAITE; the acting
Vice-President, Hon. DAyip Davis; Hon.S. B. Maxey; Hon. N. P.
HiLL; Hon. G. F. HoAR; Hon. N. C. DEERING; Hon.S.S. Cox; Hon.
HK. B. TAYLOR; Rev. Dr. JOHN MACLEAN; Dr. ASA GRAY; General W,
T. SHERMAN; Dr. H. CopPphkE; and the Secretary, Professor BAIRD.

Excuses for absence on account of sickness were received from Hon,
Peter Parker and Rev. Dr. Noah Porter.

The minutes of the last meeting were read and approved.

The Secretary presented a statement of the finances of the Institution.

General Sherman, from the Executive Committee, presented the an-
nual report in relation to the funds of the Institution, the receipts and
_ expenditures for the year 1882, and the estimates for the year 1883.

On motion of Dr Coppée it was

Resolved, That the report of the Executive Committee for 1882 be
accepted.

Resolved, That the income for the year 1883 be appropriated for the
service of the Institution upon the basis of the above report, to be ex-
pended by the Secretary with full discretion as to the items, subject to
the approval of the Executive Committee.

The Secretary stated that the bronze statue of Professor Henry, or-
dered by Congress from Mr. W. W. Story, had just been received, but that
owing to the condition of the weather, it was impossible to place it in
position at the present time. He suggested the propriety of deferring
the public unveiling of the statue until the next annual meeting of the
National Academy of Sciences in April. He also stated that Mr. Story
was now in the city, had examined the Smithsonian grounds, and fully
. approved of the site for the statue suggested by the Executive Com-
mittee.

On motion of General Sherman it was

Resolved, ‘That the 19th of April, 1883, be selected as the day for the
ceremony of unveiling the statue of Professor Henry, and that the
Congress of the United States, the Diplomatic Corps, the Executive

Departments, and the public generally be invited to be present.
XI
XII JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS.

Dr. Maclean having called the attention of the Board to the fact that
the sundry papers of Professor Henry on scientific subjects had not
been published in the series issued by the Smithsonian Institution, it
was

Resolved, That the Secretary be requested to have the scientific writ-
ings of Prof. Joseph Henry collected and published.

The Secretary presented his annual report of the operations, expendi-
ditures, and condition of the Institution for the year 1882.

On motion of Mr. Cox it was

Resolved, That the report of the Secretary be referred to the Execu-
tive Committee, with authority to transmit it to Congress.

The Secretary called attention to the importance of fire-proofing the
eastern portion of the Smithsonian building, especially as the supply of
water was now so scanty that none could be had above the basement
floor. The Committee on Appropriations of Congress had given assur-
ance that the necessary amount should be granted at the present session.

The Secretary also called attention to the growth of the Government
collections and the necessity for speedy action in relation to an addi-
tional building for the use of the Museum and the Geological Survey.
He presented the following bill, which had been introduced in the House
of Representatives, on the 10th of April, 1881, by Hon. Mr. Shallen-
berger, and was now before the Committee on Public Buildings and
Grounds.

FORTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS, First SEessron.—H. R. 5781.

A BILL for the erection of a fire-proof building on the south portion of the Smith-
sonian Reservation, for the accommodation of the United States Geological Survey,
and for other purposes.

Be rt enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
States of America in Congress assembled, That the sum of two hundred
thousand dollars be, and hereby is, appropriated, out of any money in
the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, for the erection of a fire-proof
building on the south portion of the Smithsonian Reservation, for the
accommodation of the United States Geological Survey, and for other
purposes: Provided, That the consent of the Regents of the Smithsonian
Institution be first obtained thereto, and that the building be under
their direction when completed : And provided further, That the building
be erected by the Architect of the Capitol, in accordance with plans
approved by the Director of the United States Geological Survey, the
Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, and the Architect of the Cap-
itol, acting as a board therefor.”

After a very full expression by the Regents in favor of immediate
action, on motion of General Sherman it was

Resolved, That the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution
recommend to Congress to enlarge the National Museum, so as properly
to exhibit the mineral, geological, and other collections already on hand
JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS. XIIT

and increasing each year, by the erection of a fire-proof building on the
southwest corner of the Smithsonian Reservation, similar in style to
the present National Museum; and they request an appropriation of
$300,000 therefor, to be expended under the direction of the Regents
of the Institution.

On motion of Dr. Gray it was

Resolved, That the Chancellor, General Sherman, and the Secretary
be, and they are hereby, authorized and empowered to act for and in the
name of the Board of Regents in carrying into effect the provisions of
any act of Congress which may be passed providing for the erection of
an additional building for the National Museum.

The Secretary informed the Board of the death of Miss Margaret
Connor, a lady who had been employed for fifteen years in the Institu-
tion, and recommended an allowance of one hundred dollars to defray
the expense of medical attendance and other expenses of her last illness,
which, on motion of Mr. Maxey, was agreed to.

The Board then adjourned to meet on the 19th of Aprit, 1883, to attend
the ceremonies of unveiling the statue of Professor Henry.
REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE OF THE BOARD OF
REGENTS OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION FOR THE YEAR
1882.

The Executive Committee of the Board of Regents of the Smith-
sonian Institution respectfully submit the following report in relation
to the funds of the Institution, the appropriations by Congress for the
National Museum and other purposes, the receipts and expenditures
for both the Institution and the Museum for 1882, and the estimates for
the year 1883:

ie: Condition of the fund January 1, 1883.

The amount of the bequest of James Smithson deposited

in the Treasury of the United Stites (act of Congress

Ragust lO. TSAG)\ ci. 22 Seis ote we es pion tae og ee $515, 169 00
Residuary legacy of Smithson, added to the fund, deposited

in the Treasury of the United States (act of Congress

Re D RUA LOOM) oe ote otic et vec ita ei ogee ate ieee 26,210 63
Addition to the fund from savings, &c. (act of Congress

February S,lS67) 2). /. sda ciec oats te ewe i oe aetna 108, 620 37
Addition to the fund by bequest of James Hamilton, of

IRenBSyEVaRa( STA). sf oe oe. | sca csi neigh 1,000 00
Addition to the fund by bequest of Simeon Habel, of New

BG Sy oN (LESo! UVa bene a ean es ay te ALIS ley egn es i Bry is 500 00
Addition to the fund by proceeds of sale of Virginia bonds

(USSD) ies eo ete ee tice ae) a 2bre eie yene te eter es ed Aa $51,500 00

Total permanent Smithson fund in the Treasury of
the United States, bearing interest at 6 per cent.
POP ANNUM oe cca aoe cnet eie et eee ee eee $703, 000 00

Statement of the receipts and expenditures for the year 1882.

RECEIPTS.
Interest for the year 1882 from the United States........ $42,180 00
Balance, cash on hand January 1, 1882 ........--.----.. 25, 255 52

Total receipts se sioe Sys Mee rete ae cee so. $67, 435 52

xIV
REPORT OF EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE.
EXPENDITURES.

For operations of the Institution during the year, viz:
Building:
hepairs and Improvements. < 2562 220 Pei oa oe
EMMEC ANG TXGUEOS 5 .../07. 3s sce apie den ssc ea cleleiseroe cee
General expenses :
Meetings of the Board......... US Rex oay yey apie iets aNersheteensiele
Pre vinere reo MICine sso. 5 Settee eas ee bieis cies oreiails
NSPAPeaNd telesTapl. 2.02. .clocesescleseenae s oes Ree
PHIM ODOIRY A 5 Sia) ¥'s tole raja eta o wine, w/alle eustanbn gen sterg® Rael ee twal ois ore ale
incidentals, freight166, Ge... aseuies ces ha wslscs on saul
Eioksn ald. Periodicals. js 2)o.:2\ aoa oie o See e as daioe ws
alates ANd ADOT. b.2e/5 +75 ob eld eins Sisto tae BeOS ames ious s

Publications and researches:

SMUG R OIA CONT CIONS:.\c):5 ae. aiate oe oe ep aieia caltsiaccvasaan epee
Miscellaneous collections ...... Da ticlearsenvaics Fala byotsie cetcte lata
PAVE EOD OLB oeye ois Gioia t cn ath tae ahacs ape ac oeteee ont eee
Explorations ..........- 2¥ah hal sj tlsk wrager eve Wiese, distetareiece al cic Sue NE
em ERL ENGL Sere pe verte xe effec asl stei tals, 7s a st airaiah o wtv ake Wiesel Sat isieie meters Meets
Literary and scientific exchanges.............-..-.-----

ROpalvOxMeENMIGMECS ci) descwts\c ss asia spas yimtowl dione ayeleey

iDalance Pantaryi di, VSSoi52 ....j-' e's <6) i. 5 welts aise

ESTIMATES FOR 1883.

XV

1, 728 03

$37, 798 07

The following are the estimates of receipts by the Institution proper
for the year 1883, and of the appropriations required for carrying on its

operations during the same period:
Receipts.

“Interest on the permanent fund, receivable July 1, 1883,
PUL OMAR V  LOSA re cis. oats se eee et cielsel ace eect Soe

Expenditures.
For building and repairs 5 ..........-.--.... $1, 500 00
For general expenses, including salaries....... 19, 000 00
For publications and researches........... ee l2,.000 00
JENS) 5 828.06) 0007 22 ot NP eee OR ey Ce COR ee aa 7,000 00
HORRCOM EMP ON CICS). /o:c so Scie « <t)citid « cj dctusierzieie > 2,680 00

$42,180 00

—— $42, 180 00
XVI REPORT OF EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE.

NATIONAL MUSEUM AND OTHER OBJECTS COMMITTED BY CONGRESS
TO THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION.

The following is a statement of the accounts of appropriations made
by Congress* for disbursement under the direction of the Smithsonian
Institution.

PRESERVATION OF COLLECTIONS, NATIONAL MUSEUM.

Balance available January 1, 1882........-.- $32, 882 19
Appropriated for fiscal year, 1882~’83....... 91,000 00
Motal available os .c So aiee oe sis SU ate eee eee $123, 882 19
Expended as per vouchers audited, in 1882 .......-..... 79, 058 88

Balance available January 1, 1883, for six months ending
with fiscal'year June 30, 883) 22. </-coaente se eh eto $44, 823 30

PRESERVATION OF COLLECTIONS, ARMORY BUILDING.

Balance available January 1, 1882.........-. $1,058 13
Appropriated for fiscal year, 1882~83....... 2,500 00
Mota ivinil a DEGAS ey iee cyatacre wi ier siot alan ent cverctote eet are nea $3, 558 13
Expended as per vouchers audited, in 1882............. 2,002 34

Balance availabie, January 1, 1883, for six months ending
wibhfiseal year June 30, 1683. oo is ae sie a Se ee tatote oe $1,495 79

FURNITURE AND FIXTURES, NATIONAL MUSEUM.

Balance available January 1, 1882 ........ - $25,619 06
Appropriated for fiscal year, 1882~83....... 90, 000 00
Total available. -......... SRT eye cal IEE $115, 619 06
Expended as per vouchers audited, in 1882...... Weer ery 84,456 94

Balance available January 1, 1883, for six months ending
with fiscal year June o0,) 883220 s nc.) beeen eee $31,182 12

NORTH AMERICAN ETHNOLOGY—SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION.

Balance available, January 1, 1882......-... $3, 540 90
Appropriated for fiscal year, 1882~’83.....-.. 35, 000 00
Totalavailable: 2.22 52 s5..J20 cee in eee eee $43, 540 90
Expended as per vouchers audited, in 1882......---..--- 23, 100 46

Balance available January 1, 1883, for six months ending
with fiscal year June 30, 1883........-...--------+--- 20,440 44

* These acts are given in full in the Appendix.
REPORT OF EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE. XVIL

INTERNATIONAL EXCHANGES—SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION.

Balance available January 1, 1852........--. $1,500 60
Appropriated for fiscal year, 158283. ..-.... 5, 000 00
MataeAVAMABIO® scons ccc cess Sets semis nem lec des --. $6,500 00
Expended as per vouchers audited, in 1882... ........-. 4,000 00

Balance available January 1, 1883, for six months ending
With discal year June 30, 1883... 25.5... ee os ee ee 2,500 00

FIRE-PROOF BUILDING, NATIONAL MUSEUM.

Balance available January 1, 1882.....-..... $5, 317 65
Expended as per vouchers audited, in 1882... 5, 304 38
Balance returned to the United States Treasury .....-.... $13 27

POLARIS REPORT,

Balance available January 1, 1882 ......... $3, 597 75

PPCM OCR MM NBO ces oi ei. ste eine Se 1, 673 85

Balance available January 1, 1883..........-..........., $1,918 90
CONCLUSION.

The Executive Committee has examined 765 vouchers for payinents
made from the Smithson income during the year 1882, and 2,169
vouchers for payments made from appropriations by Congress for the
National Museum, making a total of 2,934 vouchers. All these bear the
approval of the Secretary of the Institution, and a certificate that the
materials and services charged were applied to the purposes of the
Institution or the Museum.

The committee has examined the account-books of the National
Museum, and find the balances unexpended as before stated, viz:

Eefeservacion Of Collections sxe s tick Ves 2cios ose ase ee sees $44, 823 30
aeRO VRID ULLLCLITA OE Se terete Cha cares, UNL We oy haat Bal A Ne 1,495 79
PMEIDULG ANC HM XEUUCN coir eS eee hee ee ME tale 31,182 12

to correspond with the certificates of the disbursing clerks of the De-
partments of the Interior and of the Treasury.

The balance unexpended of the appropriation of $8,000 made by the
Forty-sixth Congress in 1880 for completing the preparation of the
report of Dr. Emil Bessels of the scientific results of the Arctic expe-
dition under the late Capt. C. F. Hall, according to the certificate of the
disbursing agent of the Treasury Department, is $1,918.90.

H. Mis. 26 Il

XVIII REPORT OF EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE.

The quarterly accounts-current, the bank-book, check-book, and jour-
nals have been examined, and found to be correct.
the balance to the credit of the Institution proper, on the Ist of
January, 1883, in the hands of the Treasurer of the United States,
available for the current operations of the Institution, is $29,637.45.
Respectfully submitted. ;
PETER PARKER,
JOHN MACLEAN,
W. T. SHERMAN,
Lxecutive Committee.

[Dr. Maclean’s examination of the expenditures and vouchers was
limited to those of the Smithsonian Institution proper, January 15,
1883. |

WASHINGTON, January 17, 1883.
THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION.

MEMBERS EX OFFICIO OF THE “ESTABLISUMENT”
(January 1, 1883.)

CHESTER A. ARTHUR, President of the United States.
DAVID DAVIS, President of the United States Senate.
MORRISON R. WAITE, Chief Justice of the United States.
FREDERICK T. FRELINGHUYSEN, Secretary of State.
CHARLES J. FOLGER, Secretary of the Treasury.
ROBERT T. LINCOLN, Secretary of War.

WILLIAM E. CHANDLER, Secretary of the Navy.
TIMOTHY O. HOWE, Postmaster-General.

HENRY M. TELLER, Secretary of the Interior.
BUNJAMIN H. BREWSTER, Attorney-General.

EDGAR M. MARBLE, Commissioner of Patents.

REGENTS OF THE INSTITUTION.
(January 1, 1833.)

MORRISON R. WAITE, Chief Justice of the United States,
President of the Board.

DAVID DAVIS, President of the United States Senate.

rHORGE F. HOAR, member of the Senate of the United States.

NATHANIEL P. HILL, member of the Senate of the United States.

SAMUEL B. MAXEY, member of the Senate of the United States.

NATHANIEL C. DEERING, member of the House of Representatives.

EZRA B. TAYLOR, member of the House of Representatives.

SAMUEL 8S. COX, member of the House of Representatives.

JOHN MACLEAN, citizen of New Jersey.

PETER PARKER, citizen of Washington, D. C.

ASA GRAY, citizen of Massachusetts.

HENRY COPPEES, citizen of Pennsylvania.

WILLIAM T. SHERMAN, citizen of Washington, D. C.

NOAH PORTER, citizen of Connecticut.

Executive Committee of the Board of Regents.

PETER PARKER. JOUN MACLEAN. WILLIAM T. SUERMAN.
XIX
OFFICERS AND ASSISTANTS OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTI-
TUTION AND NATIONAL MUSEUM, JANUARY, 1883.

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION.

SPENCER F. BAIRD,

Secretary, Director of the Institution.
WILLIAM J. RHEES, Chief Clerk.
DANIEL LEECH, Corresponding Clerk.

NATIONAL MUSEUM.
SPENCER F. BAIRD, Director.

G. BROWN GOODE, Assistant Director; Curator, Department of Art and Industry.

TARLETON H. BEAN, Curator, Department of Ichthyology.
WM. H. DALL, Honorary Curator, Department of Mollusks.
FREDERICK P. DEWEY, Assistant Curator, Department of Metallurgy.
JAMES M. FLINT, Honorary Curator, Section of Materia Medica.
EDW. FOREMAN, Assistant, Department of Ethnography.
GEO. P. MERRILL, Assistant, Section of Building Stones.
RICHARD RATHBUN, Assistant Curator, Department Marine Invertebraics.
CHARLES RAU, Curator, Department of Archwoloqy.
ROBERT RIDGWAY, Curator, Department of Ornithology.
CHARLES V. RILEY, Honorary Curator, Departuent of Entomology.
FREDERICK W. TAYLOR, Chemist.
FREDERICK W. TRUE, Curator, Department of Mammals, and Librarian.
CHARLES D. WALCOTT, Honorary Assistant Curator, Department of Invertebrate Fossils
LESTER F. WARD, Honorary Curator, Department of Fossil Plants.
CHARLES A. WHITE, Curator, Department of Invertebrate Paleontology.
HENRY C. YARROW, Honorary Curator, Department of Herpetology.
WM. 8. YEATES, Acting Curator, Department of Alineralogy.

xx
REPORT OF PROFESSOR BAIRD,

SECRETARY OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, FOR 1882.

To the Board of Regents:

GENTLEMEN: I have the honor to present herewith a report of the
operations and condition of the Smithsonian Institution for the year
1882.

As in previous years, I propose to include in the present report, in
addition to matters pertaining strictly to the Institution, a brief account
of the operations of the National Museum and the Bureau of Ethnol-
ogy, which may be considered as part of the Smithsonian Institution,
as well as of the work of the United States Fish Commission, which is
under my charge.

THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION.
INTRODUCTORY.

There are no specially distinctive or prominent facts to be mentioned
in connection with the work of the Institution and its collateral depart-
ments during the year 1882; although it may be said that, at no time,
has the establishment been in better condition, whether we take into
account the character of the work accomplished, the economy of expendi-
ture, or the satisfactory condition of its funds at the end of the year.

The publications of the Smithsonian Institution, or those made under
its direction, have been of average amount; the international exchanges
have been more than ever extensive and important; the scientific re-
searches.of the Institution have been extremely productive, while the
Museum has been enriched by a greater quantity of valuable material
than ever before.

THE HENRY STATUE.

I am happy to announce that the memorial statue of Professor Henry,
the construction of which, by Mr. W. W. Story, was authorized by
Congress on the 1st June, 1880, is finished, and in Washington. It was
hoped that it might be delivered in time to be in position by the end of
the year 1881. Owing, however, to certain imperfections found in the
Statue after being cast in bronze, it became necessary to reproduce it;
and it was not until the month of November, [1882,] that it was actually
completed and shipped.

H. Mis. 26——1
a REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. ~*

The pedestal of the statue, which was made in the United States, was
delivered in the early part of the year, but the statue itself did not
arrive from Rome until the end of December. Itis hoped that the next
report to the Board will contain a notice of the successful erection of
this memorial.

THE BOARD OF REGENTS.

The original law organizing the Smithsonian Institution provides for
vacancies of three members of the House and one member of the Sen-
ate at the end of each Congress, the successors to be appointed by the
Speaker of the House and the President of the Senate, respectively, in
the ensuing December. Although no special provision is made for res-
ignations, it would of course naturally be inferred that an appointment
to a vacancy oi this kind should be for the period of the remainder of the
term of service of the former incumbent, as is the case in the United
States Senate. In fact, however, with some previous vacancies occur-
ring by death, or resignation of Senatorial position, the service was
continued for six years, and with a result that all the Senate regencies
became vacant at the same time. By the appointment, however, of
Senator Hoar, on the 2ist February, 1881, and of Senators Hill of (Colo-
rado) and Maxey (of Texas) on the 19th May, of the saine year, the nor-
mal term of service was re-established, with vacancies occurring at inter-
vals.of two years—the term of Senator Hoar expiring with his Senatorial
term, in March, 1883; of Senator Hill, in March, 1885; and of Senator
Maxey, in March, 1887.

The existing vacancies of the House members were filled by the ap-
pointment of Hon. N. C. Deering, of Iowa; Hon. E. B. Taylor, of Ohio;
and Hon. 8S. S. Cox, of New York.

The annual meeting of the Board was held on the 18th of January,
1882, and was attended by all the new regents. The Chief Justice, Mr.
Waite, referred to the loss the Institution and the whole country had
sustained in the untimely death of President Garfield, who had been
connected with the Board of Regents with but little ieee since
1863.

The committee having in charge the erection of the new building au-
thorized by Congress for the reception and exhibition of the collections
of the Government, made a report that the work had been completed in
a satisfactory manner and within the amount of the appropriation. The
thanks of the Board were voted to the committee for the able and sat-
isfactory manner in which it had discharged its duties.

The thanks of the Board were also tendered to General Montgomery
C. Meigs for his highly valued services as consulting engineer of the
National Museum Building Commission, in connection with the con-
struction of the fire-proof building for the Museum.

Authority was given to the Secretary and the executive committee to
apply to Congress for an appropriation to render the east range and
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 3

wing of the Smithsonian Institution fire-proof, in continuation of pre-
vious appropriations for the same purpose made and applied to the
main portion of the building.

FINANCES.

The report of the executive committee, which has just been presented
to you, presents the details of the financial condition of the Institution
proper, and a report upon the expenditure of items placed by Congress
under its direction. The sale of the Virginia bonds mentioned in the
last report is still believed to have been wise, and has removed all
source of anxiety as to the stability or amount of the funds permanently
invested from which a regular income could be depended on. With an
aggregate fund of $703,000 in the United States Treasury, the income
of the Smithsonian Institution amounts to $42,180. This, with a bal-
ance on hand at the beginning of the year, has furnished the fund from
which the expenses proper are paid. These are classified under the
several heads of building, general expenses, publications and researches,
and literary and scientific exchanges.

What has heretofore been a very great item of expense—from $9,000
to $11,000—connected with the international ~exchanges, has been
greatly reduced by the appropriation of Congress made specifically for
that purpose. This expenditure is either directly in the interest of
the country at large, or that of the Government bureaus and of the
Library of Congress, and it is, therefore, eminently proper that the
whole amount should be refunded. The Secretary of State has ac-
cordingly asked for an appropriation of $10,000 for the coming fiscal
year, instead of the $5,000, which is at present available. This saving
will enable the Institution to extend its labors liberally in the direction
of researches and publications, as well as be available for the unusually
heavy repairs required in connection with the Smithsonian building.’

After successive additions to the appropriation for a fire-proof building
of the National Museum the account has been finally closed by returning
$13.27 to the Treasury.

The available balance of the Smithsonian Institution for the expendi-
tures of the first half of the year 1882, according to the report of the
executive committee, amounts to $29,637.45.

BUILDINGS OF THE INSTITUTION.

Smithsonian Building.—No unusual expenditure has been required to
keep this edifice in good order, although a certain amount of wear and
tear has of course been necessarily provided for. Some important
changes have, however, been made, adding greatly to the facilities for
work. The entire basement has been putin thorough order; the floors,
walls, and ceilings covered with a thick coat of whitewash, answering
the double purpose of a sanitary protection and of increasing the
amount of light; the improvement in the latter respect being very
4 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

marked. The west basement, which has heretofore been occupied indis-
criminately for the preservation and elaboration of the collection of
birds and fishes, has been subdivided, and each subject confined strictly
to.its own section, much to the improvement of the service. An open-
ing has been made from the northwestern tower of the main building
into the second story of the adjacent corridor; and a stairway placed
in the tower, ascending from the basement to the level of the gallery of
the main hall, permits ready access between the three floors. The spe-
cial object of this was to give to the curators of fishes and marine inver-
tebrates an opportunity of using the galleries of the main hall in their
work of arrangement and cataloguing. The hall or corridor between
the main central room and the western or “pottery” room has been oc-
cupied by the collection of fishes, for which it was specially arranged.

At the last meeting of the Board the Secretary called attention to the
combustible and insecure condition of the eastern portion of the Smith-
sonian building, and presented plans, prepared at his request by the
architects, Messrs. Cluss & Schulze, which, without materially changing
the architecture of the building, would provide largely increased accom-
modations for offices and work-rooms, the storage of publications, the
exchange system, Xe.

The Board unanimously adopted a resolution instructing the Secretary
and executive committee to present the subject to Congress and request
an appropriation for the purpose. The Secretary, in accordance with
this instruction, sent the following letter on the 13th of March to the
Speaker of the House of Representatives :

“By instruction of the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian
Institution, I have the honor to transmit to Congress the following
resolution adopted at the last meeting of the Board, January 11, 1882;
and, in doing so, beg that it be referred to the appropriate committee
of the House of Representatives and receive that attention which the
urgency of the case requires:

““¢ Resolved, That the Secretary and executive committee present a
memorial to Congress showing the importance and necessity of render-
ing the east wing of the Smithsonian building fire-proof, requesting an
appropriation therefor, and, if the means are furnished, to proceed with
the work.’

“Tt will be remembered that in January, 1865, a fire occurred in the
Smithsonian building, which destroyed a large portion of the main
edifice, with its adjacent towers, and a very large amount of valuable
public and private property.

“The main building was restored with fire-proof materials; but the
east wing, composed entirely of wood and plaster, and which had es-
caped injury, remains in its previous dangerous condition. Originally
a lecture room, it was fitted up many years ago with apartments for
the residence of the late Secretary and his family. This application of
the wing, however, was discontinued after Professor Henry’s death;
but the rooms thus set apart are entirely unsuited to the operations of
the establishment, and, while in every way objectionable, the timbers

have decayed, and no arrangements are provided for proper lighting,
heating, and ventilation.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 5

‘The main building and western extension are occupied by the col-
lections of the Government; the east wing embraces the offices of the
Secretary, chief clerk, corrresponding clerk, and registrar, and also ac-
commodations for the extensive operations of the department of in-
ternational exchanges, the benefits of which accrue not only principally
to the Library of Congress but to all the public libraries and scientific
societies throughout the United States.. The rooms are filled with the
archives, files of correspondence, original scientific manuscripts, vouch-
ers, the stock of Government and Smithsonian publications for distri-
bution at home and abroad, &c.; and their destruction by fire, to which
they are constantly exposed, would be greatly detrimental to the in-
terests of the Government and the general public.

‘“‘ In addition to this, an extensive fire in the east wing would endanger
and possibly destroy the main portion of the Smithsonian building, the
upper and lower halls of which contain rare specimens belonging to the
Government, and most of which could not be replaced.

‘Congress has recognized the importance and propriety of gradually
reconstructing the interior of the Smithsonian building, in fire-proof
materials, by making appropriations for the purpose at various times
between 1870 and 1875; and the last Congress, in 1879, appropriated
$3,000 ‘for providing additional security against fire in the Smithsonian
building.’

‘‘It is now proposed to remodel the interior of the east wing so that,
without disturbing its present architectural style, the internal capacity
will be doubled by a new arrangement of floors, partitions, and roofs,
and all the rooms be adapted to the efficient prosecution of the work of
the Institution and the various interests intrusted to its management
by Congress.

““Inclosed I beg to send a copy of the report of the Board of Fire In-
spectors (appointed by the District Commissioners) upon the condition
of the Smithsonian building.*

‘¢T have the honor to ask, in the name and on behalf of the Board of
Regents, that the following appropriation be made at the present session
of Congress, viz:

“For continuing and completing the fire-proofing of the Smithsonian
Institution, $50, 000.”

National Museum Building.—The Museum building was received from
the hands of the architects in so complete a state that but little re-
mained to be done beyond the tinting of a portion of the walls and the
filling up of some of the alcoves with canvas frames, &c. There is yet
much to be done, however, in the construction of the necessary cases for
the accommodation of collections. <A large addition to the number was
made during the year. It will require, perhaps, two more consecutive
appropriations, of the usual amount, before all the space contained in
the building can be suitably occupied with the necessary means of

*«<The commission to inspect buildings in the District beg leave to submit here-
with report No. 5.

“By invitation of Professor Baird, the east wing and connecting corridor to the
main building of the Smithsonian Institution were visited and inspected. In this
portion of the building are all the records and valuable documents belonging to the
Institution. The interior is entirely of wood and illy arranged, making it especially
unsafe and liable to accident from fire, thus endangering the entire building. As a
matter of safety, this wing and corridor should be completely cleared out and rebuilt
of fire-proof material, and furnished with improved modes of communication and
egress.”
6 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

exhibition. As heretofore, the cases have been, for the most part, built
by contract outside of the Museum, some in Washington, some in Phil-
adelphia, and others in Baltimore, but a good deal of work has been
done within the building by carpenters and other workmen employed
by the day.

A very great change has been made during the year in the appear-
ance of the interior, and a very decided approach towards the general
completion of the work accomplished. In order to accommodate the
increasing number of books required for the use of the curators and
students connected with the Museum, the original library room was
connected with the one above it by means of a stairway, so that prac-
tically two stories—the lower one with a gallery—have been provided.
It is thought that at least 10,000 volumes can be accommodated in this
manner.

The accommodations for the storage of coal having been found insuffi-
cient, the vaults under the western end of the south front of the Museum
were more than doubled in extent during the year, and space gained
in addition for a blacksmith’s shop and machine shop.

Armory Building.—Very important changes have been made during
the year in the Armory building and its surroundings. This edifice
was assigned by Congress, a number of years ago, for the special service
of the National Museum; to which, at a later period, was added by law
that of the United States Fish Commission. The original intent of the
assignment was for the purpose of accommodating the collections ob-
tained at the Centennial Exhibition in Philadelphia; but as these were
removed, from time to time, to the National Museum building, after its
completion, the space gained was taken possession of by the Fish Com-
mission. ‘The lower story, or ground floor, was converted into a great
fish-propagating establishment, for the hatching of shad, salmon, and
other food fishes; and it was used, also, as a magazine for the distribu-
tion of carp, black bass, &c. The second floor was converted into a
series of offices, laboratories, and rooms for the messengers connected
with the fish-transportation service. The third floor was used as a
depot for supplies and materials of the Fish Commission; and the
fourth story is still oceupied by the property of the National Museum.

In order the better to accommodate the service of the Fish Commis-
sion, a Switch or branch railroad track was, by the permission of the
Superintendent of Public Buildings and Grounds, and of the Commis-
sioners of the District of Columbia, introduced into the area at the south
of the building, on which the distribution cars of the Fish Commission
can be kept, aud loaded directly from the Armory building. Later in
the year a shed in the shape of the letter L was built on the lot, the
short branch being used for the cars, and the long one as a depository
for the collections obtained from the proprietors of exhibits in the Per-
manent Exhibition building in Philadelphia. The construction of a
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 6

/
fence inclosing the interior court of the Armory yard gives great
security to the large amount of valuable Government property storea
in the main building and its annexes.

Laboratory of Natural History—By the transfer of Mr. T. W. Smillie
and his photographic apparatus from this buildit'¢ to the new photo-
graphic rooms specially arranged in the southea:‘ern pavilion of the
National Museum building, it became possible to oiler accommodations
for photographic work to the force employed by Major Powell, in con-
nection with the Geological Survey and Bureau of Ethnology. Mr.
Hillers, photographer, has utilized the rooms of the building particu-
larly in the preparation of enlarged photographs of the scenery and
the aborigines of the West for the windows of the National Museum.
It is proposed to introduce these photographs in a large number of the
windows of the Museum building, selecting for each room the subjects
most appropriate to its contents.

An Additional Museum Building required.—Large and capacious as is
the new Museum building, it has proved already inadequate to the exist-
ing requirements of the National Museum. ‘This building was designed
primarily to accommodate the vast number of industrial and economical
exhibits presented to the United States by foreign Governments at the
close of the Philadelphia Exposition of 1876. A special appropriation
was made by Congress for their transfer to Washington and the Armory
building in the square between Sixth and Seventh streets was assigned
for their reception. It required nearly sixty large-sized freight cars to
transport the mass.

Before the building was completed in 1881, and available for its pur-
poses, almost equally enormous additions had been made to the collee-
tions of the various Government expeditions and of the Ethnological
Bureau, which, together with many thousands of objects previously in
charge of the Smithsonian Institution, but for which there was no room
in the old building, constituted a much larger mass than was originally
estimated. It is well known that at the close of the Centennial Exposi-
tion a company was organized to take charge of a large portion of the
collections exhibited on that occasion, and with these and such additional
articles as might be obtained to establish what was known as the “ Per-
manent Exhibition” in the main Centennial building, which covers nearly
eighteen acres. This organization, after struggling for existence for
several years, finally became unable to continue the effort, and the col-
lections in its charge were speedily scattered. Many of these had been
presented to the National Museum with the understanding that they
were to be left with the Permanent Exhibition Company for a period of
at least a few years. Others, however, including many of the most
valuable series, were obtained for the National Museum through the
efforts of Mr. Thomas Donaldson. All these collections were carefully
8 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

packed under his charge and stored in a building erected by him ad-
jacent to the Centennial building.

An appropriation was made by Congress to meet the cost of packing,
shipping to Washington, and storing the collections in question. About
twenty cars were required to transport them. They are now contained
in a wooden building adjacent to the Armory, there being absolutely
no space for them in the National Museum.

In addition to this a cabinet of at least double the magnitude, made
by the Institute of Mining Engineers and deposited with the Pennsyl-
vania Art Museum of Philadelphia, has been offered to the Govern-
ment simply on the condition of transfer to Washington and proper
exhibition. This is an extremely important collection, illustrating the
mining resources and metallurgy of the United States and foreign coun-
tries, and will constitute a most important addition to the means of in-
struction at the command of the Government. An appropriation will
be asked, and it is hoped obtained, for the purpose of transferring the
collection to Washington; but some measures must be taken for its
ultimate display.

An even greater mass of additional material to be provided for will
be found in the industrial collections of the United States census of
1880, and in the collections of the United States Geological Survey.
The census collections embrace more particularly the building stones
of the country, the ores (especially of the precious metals), the com-
bustibles, such as coal, petroleum, &c., and the forest timber.

All these collections are of great magnitude, representing as nearly
as possible a full series from all parts of the country. They are care-
fully labelled and recorded, and will be accompanied by full descriptions.

The building-stone collection is especially valuable, consisting, as it
does, of many thousands of samples of marble, granite, sandstone, and
other substances, for the most part dressed in 4-inch cubes, each of the
faces showing a different surface and treatment.

It is not believed that any established quarry remains unrepresented
in this series, while many extremely valuable deposits of ornamental
and building stones are presented therein for the first time. Prepa-
rations are in progress for testing the strength, resistance to torsion
and crushing force, and economical properties of all these samples,
The collection is now so far advanced that when a public building is to
be erected either by the States or the General Government it will be
possible to show specimens of all the best building stones in the vicin-
ity of the locality involved, and to present all the necessary data as to
availability, durability, cost of production, &c. Much use has already
been made of the collection by the commissioners of State capitals,
county court-houses, &¢., as well as by agents of the General Govern-
ment.

The collection of ores made by the census agencies is also very ex-
tensive, that of iron being particularly large. Nearly every iron mine
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. a

of any prominence in the United States has been visited, and samples
carefully selected, by experts. These have been analyzed under the di-
rection of Professor Pumpelly, and reports presented as to their chem-
ical, and metallurgical properties, and economical value. All the orig-
inals of this research are in charge of the Smithsonian Institution,
awaiting exhibition. The same may be said of similar researches in
regard to the ores of all the other metals.

The work of the United States Geological Survey, also of enormous
magnitude—begun under Mr. Clarence King and continued under Maj.
J. W. Powell—has resulted in the accumulation of several tons of speci-
mens of fossils, rocks, minerals, ores, and the like. Very few of these
can at present be exhibited for want of the necessary space. The Sur-
vey requires a large number of experts and assistants, and is at pres-
ent very badly accommodated. Some twenty rooms in the new Mu-
seum building have been assigned as quarters for the Director of the
Survey and his assistants.

This, however, causes great inconvenience to the other work of the
Museum, and as the survey now occupies a large building in Washing-
ton, for which it pays considerable rental, and for want of quarters in
Washington is obliged to scatter its stations over various parts of the
United States, itis thought desirable to ask Congress for an appropria-
tion to erect a second museum buildingcorresponding in general char-
acter to the first, but on the opposite side of the square, along the line
of Twelfth street.

This building it is proposed to devote almost entirely to the mineral
department of the National Museum; and when completed to transfer
to it everything of a geological and mineralogical nature, and also to
prepare a portion of it especially for the accommodation of the Geolog-
ical Survey, which is at present so inconveniently provided for. By
way of economy it is proposed at first to construct what will represent
the western side of the building, in which office-rooms and chemical
and other laboratories can be provided for.

It had been proposed to erect a separate building for the Geological
Survey, disconnected from the National Museum; but there being no
ground available for this purpose, it was thought expedient to ask for
an appropriation to furnish the required quarters on the Smithsonian
reservation, which is at present ample for the purpose.

On the 10th of April last the following bill was accordingly intro-
duced into the House of Representatives and referred to the Committee
on Public Buildings and Grounds. The subject is still before that
committee, and it is impossible to state what will be its fate during
the present session. I would recommend action on the part of the Board
of Regents in this connection, since long before the edifice can be com-
pleted the need for it will become extremely urgent.
10 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

“A BILL (H. R. No. 5781) for the erection of a fire-proof building on the south por-
tion of the Smithsonian reservation, for the accommodation of the United States
Geological Survey, and for other purposes.

“ Be it enacted, &c., That the sum of two hundred thousand dollars
be, and hereby is, appropriated, out of any money in the Treasury not
otherwise appropriated, for the erection of a fire-proof building on the
south portion of the Smithsonian reservation for the accommodation of
the United States Geological Survey, and for other purposes: Provided,
That the consent of the Regents of the Smithsonian Institution be first
obtained thereto, and that the building be under their direction when
completed: And provided further, That the building be erected by the
Architect of the Capitol, in accordance with plans approved by the
Director of the United States Geological Survey, the Secretary of the
Smithsonian Institution and the Architect of the Capitol acting as a
board therefor.”

MEETINGS OF SCIENTIFIC BODIES.

The Board of Regents authorized the Secretary ‘‘to provide in the
building of the new Museum such accommodations as the National
Academy of Sciences may need at its meetings in Washington, and in
connection with the executive committee to extend similar hospitality
to other organizations of cognate character and importance.”

Under the authority thus conferred, meetings were held during the
past year in the new Museum: by the National Academy of Sciences
(April 18, 1882), the American Institute of Mining Engineers (Febru-
ary 21, 1882), and the National Dental Association (August 3, 4, 5, 1882).

The hall of the Museum has also been used for the bi-monthly meet-
ings of the Biological Society of Washington, and for lectures on Satur-
day afternoons in the months of March and April, 1882, under the au-
spices of the Anthropological and Biological Societies of Washington.

The following is a list of these lectures :

Introductory Address. By Maj. J. W. Powell, Director, United States
Geological Survey.

Scientific and Popular Views of Nature Contrasted. By Prof. Theo
Gill.

What is Anthropology? By Prot. Otis T. Mason.

Contrasts of the Appalachian Mountains. By Prof. J. W. Chicker-
jng, Jr.

Outlines of Sociology. By Maj. J. W. Powell.

Little Known Facts about Well-Known Animals. By Prof. C. V.
Riley.

Paul Broca and the French School of Anthropology. By Dr. Robert
Fletcher.

Deep Sea Explorations. By Prof. Wm. 4H. Dall.

How we See. By Dr. Swan M. Burnett.

I would state that a formal visit was made to the Institution on the
2d February, 1882, by the newly appointed Chinese minister, Mr. Cheng
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 11

Tsao Ju, with his staff, accompanied by Hon. Peter Parker, one of the
Regents. These gentlemen seemed thuch interested in the work of the
establishment, and promised hearty co-operation on the part of the
Chinese Government in the way of exchanges, contributions to the Mu-
seum, &e.

ROUTINE WORK OF THE INSTITUTION.

Administration.—The personnel of the Smithsonian Institution has
remained practically unchanged since the last report.

Correspondence.—In all the public Departments, the correspondence
constitutes a very large part of the office work, and the fact that the
Smithsonian Institution has come to be, in a measure, a bureau of in-
formation, adds greatly to the number of letters received and requir-
ing responses.

It is a rule of the Institution, observed from its earliest days, that
no respectful request for information ever goes without an answer—
either supplying what is wanted, or expressing inability to doso. In
the latter case references are frequently given, which answer the desired
object.

The known interest of the Institution in the subject of Anthropology
induces many notices to be sent to it of the discovery of Indian relics,
_ their characteristics, and other details; the more interesting portions
of which are usually extracted and published in the annnal report. The
number, however, has become so great that at present it is impossible
to give them in detail, as heretofore; but a careful abstract is made, for
publication in the annual report, by Prof. O. T. Mason, the editor in
charge of this subject.

The correspondence with all parts of the United States—largely, how-
ever, through members of Congress—in connection with the supposed
discovery of valuable minerals, has, as heretofore, represented a very
considerable portion of the business.

Applications for position in the Institution and its allied departments.
still continue to be numerous. At best there can be but very few vacan-
cies in the administrative and laboring force, and hence it is rarely
possible to give a favorable response to any such application, whatever
the merit of the applicant, or however strong and satisfactory the testi-
monials presented. The unpleasant necessity accordingly remains of
almost uniformly declining the urgent appeals of those seeking official
position and occupation.

RESEARCHES AND EXPLORATIONS.

During no previous year has the Smithsonian Institution been con-
nected with so many different and important explorations of various.
regions, especially of America, as during that which has just closed;
and the results of the work are of commensurate value.
12 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

Among the subjects to which the Institution has always devoted
special attention has been that of developing a knowledge of the eth-
nology and physical and natural history of the less known portions of
the globe; confining, however, its attention more particularly to Amer-
ica. There are yet so many regions to be investigated, that whatever
funds are available for its purposes can always be advantageously em-
ployed; and the limitations in this respect have always been keenly
felt.

It is, of course, the policy of the Smithsonian Institution, in this and
in all other subjects, to occupy no ground that is covered by other suf-
ficient agencies; and where the United States Government or any other
body is at work in exploration the Institution does not interfere, except
in so far as it can act concurrently to advantage. For the third of a
century the Institution has worked harmoniously with the various
branches of the Government in this connection; and by calling atten-
tion to the importance of special inquiries, not originally contemplated
in the official research, by securing the appointment of competent ex-
perts, by taking charge of the notes and collections made, and assisting
in their elaboration and preparation for publication, and in various
other ways, it has been able to guide effort, and to secure the accom-
plishment of its object on a very large scale.

The number of exhibitions that the Institution has been more or less
connected with during the period mentioned is very great, and it is
difficult to calculate the influence that it has thus exerted in the devel-
opment of knowledge in ethnology and natural history in general, and
particularly in that of northern and middle America.

Of later years the strongest ally and associate of the Smithsonian
Institution and its work, has been the United States Signal Service;
first, under General Meyer, and next under General Hazen. Both these
officers have always exhibited the utmost readiness to render all the aid
in their power toward the furtherance of the objects of the Institution,
and especially by permitting it to nominate persons to the charge of, or
to act as assistants in, the principal observation stations who, while
competent meteorological observers, were at the same time naturalists
and able to utilize their opportunities to the utmost. The Institution
in these cases has usually met all the expenses in addition to what was
required for the purely meteorological service; supplying outfit, arsenic,
ammunition, &c., and taking charge of the collections and having them
properly elaborated for publication.

The previous reports of the Institution contain many references to
this most satisfactory co-operation; and this has been even more marked
and efficient during 1882 than formerly; as will be readily realized by
the following account, in which I propose to take up the several regions,
and show the more important work that has been done either by the
Institution alone, or in conjunction with the Signal Service and other
parties.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 13

Greenland.—It will be remembered that in 1881 Lieutenant Greeley
was sent, by the Chief Signal Officer, in charge of a party to establish
an international meteorological station at Lady Franklin Bay, in lati-
tude 81° 35’ north. The party was taken to its destination on the
steamer “ Proteus,” a sailing vessel chartered in Newfoundland, and was
safely landed, with all its stores, on the north shore of Lady Franklin
Bay, at Camp Conger. The naturalist and surgeon of the party in
charge, Dr. Pavey, had preceded the expedition to Greenland by about
one year, being occupied during the interval in studying the natural
history and ethnology of the country. In 1882, with an appropriation
made by Congress for the purpose, a relief party was organized by the
Signal Office to carry out stores and supplies. As Dr. Pavey intimated
his desire to return during 1882, the Institution, at the request of Gen-
eral Hazen, selected Dr. Hoadley to fill the place, as a surgeon of
ability and an experienced naturalist. This relief party, with the sup-
plies and stores, left Newfoundland on the steamer *“‘ Neptune” on its
way to Lady Franklin Bay; but, on account of the ice, was unable to
reach its destination; and after depositing the stores on the shore
and marking their position by intelligible indications, it returned
to the United States. During the voyage, Dr. Hoadley was able to
utilize the slight opportunity at his command in collecting some inter-
esting specimens of birds and other objects of natural history. The
commander of the party brought back a very finely constructed skin
boat, which has been deposited by the Chief Signal Officer in the
National Museum.

Labrador.—A very important beginning towards the exploration of
Labrador has been made during the year by the establishment, by the
United States Signal Service, of an international meteorological station
on Ungava Bay, its northern extremity. Mr. Lucien M. Turner, who has
been connected with theservice for many years in stations at St. Michael’s,
Alaska, and at many points along the Aleutian Islands, was selected
to establish a new station on the eastern coast of the continent, and one
that should be at a suitable distance from the Greenland station, and
those more or less adjacent to it of the German and English Govern-
ments. The courtesy of the Hudson’s Bay Company, which had been
8o signally exhibited to the Smithsonian Institution in connection with
the researches of Mr. Kennicott and others more than twenty years ago,
was again displayed, in its hearty consent to make Fort Chimo, in
Ungava Bay, the seat of the settlement in question; and Mr. Turner
accordingly left Quebec on a schooner for Rigolette Station, where,
taking the Hudson’s Bay steamer, he proceeded to Ungava. His equip-
ment for making collections of all kinds was very complete, and was
also transported by the Hudson’s Bay Company. He had received au-
thority from the Institution to obtain the necessary goods at the post,
and to secure such objects by barter with the Eskimo as could not
14 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

otherwise be readily obtained. The vessel returned very soon after,
leaving Mr. Turner and his equipment; but his letters indicate his entire
satisfection with the prospect, of efficient work both in meteorology and
in natural history. We are assured by the company’s officer at Fort
Chimo of his hearty co-operation; and are also gratified at the assurance
that, in their season, the variety of objects of natural history is very
great, especially of birds, with their nests and eggs. Four boxes of col-
lections were received from Mr. Turner by way of London, and found to
contain many articles of much interest. In accordance with the under-
standing with Mr. Turner, the collections will all be retained, so that he
may work them up at the proper time.

This may be an appropriate place to mention that, before leaving the
country, Mr. Turner completed his elaborate report upop the natural
and physical history of Alaska, and left it in the hands of the Chief
Signal Officer for such use as he might see fit to make of it.

A second exploration of Labrador during the year was prosecuted by
Mr. Winfred A. Stearns, a New England naturalist who has been in
the habit of spending several years successively on the coast, although
considerably farther south than the station occupied by Mr. Turner.
That gentleman applied to the Institution for the necessary alcohol to
preserve objects of marine zodlogy, and has forwarded to Washington
a satisfactoryreturn. A report by him on the various species of animals
observed during his successive visits to Labrador has been presented
to the Institution, and will shortly be published in the Proceedings of
the National Museum.

Arctic Ocean.—The ill-fated voyage of the Jeannette came to a close
by the wrecking of the vessel, and the loss of two out of the three divis-
ions into which the party was made up in the effort to reach the actual
settlements on the Siberian coasts. Among those saved was Mr. Ray-
mond L. Newcomb, the gentleman nominated by the Institution as
naturalist to the expedition. Mr. Newcomb was able, in spite of all the
privations and trials of the return, to save many of his notes and four
specimens of one of the rarest of known birds, namely, Ross’ Gull, which
is a Small species, characterized by a wedge-shaped tail, and having,
also, a black ring around the neck, in striking contrast with the other-
wise white plumage. Mr. Newcomb knowing well the interest to natur-
alists of these specimens, carried them with him, and delivered them
to the Smithsonian Institution. They are, naturally, not in very good
condition, but would be prizes under any circumstances.

_ The disastrous history of the Jeannette, almost unexampled among
Arctic explorations in its fatalities, does not come within my province
to detail.

Alaska.—Of all the stations in this vast and comparatively unknown
region, the most important occupied during the year is that at Point
Barrow, situated in latitude 714° N., the northernmost point of conti-
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 15

nental North America, and forming a part of the purchase by the United
States from Russia in 1867.

In 1881 a thoroughly organized party was sent to that region by the
Chief Signal Officer, under the command of Lieutenant Ray, with
Dr. Oldmixon as surgeon, and Professors Smith and Murdoch as
meteorological observers and naturalists; the latter gentlemen having
been nominated by the Smithsonian Institution at the request of Gen-
eral Hazen. Both of them trained and accomplished naturalists, and
of much experience in practical work, a great deal is hoped from them,
as well as from the party generally, in the thorough investigation of the
anthropology and biology of the northern coast.

A vessel sent by the United States Signal Office to Point Barrow with
supplies, under Lieutenant Powell, found the party in admirable condi-
tion, and brought back a large number of very interesting specimens, -
which have already greatly increased our knowledge of the Eskimo
and of the animal life of the region. The labor of getting settled, and
of organizing the station, prevented the full utilization of the occasion
by the naturalists of the expedition. It is expected, however, that by
the next year’s return the objects secured will be of very great interest,
surpassing even those that have already come to hand.

Among the most noted features of the collections returned from the
expedition are the many implements, such as hammers, chisels, scrap-
ers, &c., made of a form of Jadite, closely allied to the precious Jad-
ite of China and New Zealand; and many other objects of Eskimo
workmanship are scarcely less interesting.

Among the birds, the eggs of three species of Arctic wading birds
constitute important novelties in the collections of the National Mu-
seum. ‘There were also some rare fishes, marine invertebrates, &c.

Among the most important collections received from Alaska during
the year are the ethnological objects transmitted by Mr. J. J. McLean,
Signal Service observer at Sitka. This gentleman has well utilized the
opportunities at his command by securing several very fine collections
both of modern and prehistoric workmanship of the Alaskan Indians;
adding much to the richness of the material in the National Museum.

While engaged in his surveying work in Alaskan waters, on the Coast
Survey steamer Hassler, Commander Henry H. Nichols of the Navy has
continued his important service begun several years before on the Gulf
of California, in obtaining rare specimens of animals, especially fishes.
A large collection of marine animals, made by him, is now on its way
from California.

Saint Michacl’s.—No collections were received during the year from
Saint Michael’s; a station which while in charge first of Mr. Turner,
and next of Mr. Nelson, has been so great a source of supply to the
National Museum. It is, however, expected that a consignment of in-
terest will be received next year.
16 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

Nushagak.—This station, also one of the important points of service
of the Signal Office, is in charge of Mr. C. L. McKay, who went there in
1881 with the usual supply of apparatus for meteorological observation,
and of outfit by the Smithsonian Institution. Few localities on the
coast are more important than Bristol Bay, on which Nushagak is sit-
uated ; and it is expected that Mr. McKay will do full justice to the op-
portunity; having been well trained, both as an observer and collector,
under Professor Jordan, of Bloomington, Ind. <A large amount of ex-
tremely valuable material has been furnished by Mr. McKay, those of
most interest being the ethnological objects. Many interesting species
of birds and their eggs, of mammals, and of fishes have also been sent.

Some interesting collections have been received from Pribylov, one of
the fur-seal islands, furnished by Mr. J. H. Moulton. Of these a very
fine walrus head with tusks has been mounted by Mr. Hornaday, taxi-
dermist of the National Museum.

Kodiak.—A. very accomplished naturalist and collector, Mr. W. J.
Fisher, is now established at Kodiak as tidal observer of the United
States Coast Survey, and from him the Institution has received a num-
ber of extremely interesting objects. These are, for the most part,
ethnological and zodlogical; and will be referred to in another part of
this report. The most interesting acquisition of Mr. Fisher is a new
species of petrel, which has been called Wstrelata jishert by Mr. Ridg-
way, after the discoverer.

The fishes collected by Mr. Fisher are particularly interesting; as he
is well versed in Pacific ichthyology, and able to make a judicious se-
lection where it is required.

From the other islands of the Aleutian group not much has come to
hand in 1882; a few specimens collected in previous years only having
been received.

Commander Islands.—Not in any way inferior in importance to the
other work of the year have been the results of an expedition made
to the Commander Islands by Dr. L. Stejneger. This gentleman, an
accomplished naturalist of Norway, visited the Smithsonian Institution
in 1881 for the purpose of studying the collections of aquatic birds in
the National Museum, and when this was done, offered his services to
the Institution for any exploration that might be desired. His first idea
was that of research in the Sandwich Islands, and next in the West
Indies; but finally the interest of an exploration in the Commander
Islands induced the Institution to make the necessary arrangements to
send him to that region. It may be stated, in this connection, that
this group of small islands is situated about 100 miles off Petropau-
lovski on the coast of Kamchatka, and that its special interest lies
in the fact of its originally having been the locality of the northern
sea-cow—the Rhytina gigas—a marine mammal closely allied to the
dugong and manatee but of enormous size, measuring 30 feet and
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 17

upwards in length, and weighing many tons. When the islands were
discovered by the Russians in November, 1741, the species was very
abundant; but in a few years it was entirely exterminated, and it is
believed to be considerably more than one hundred years since the
last survivor perished. Quite naturally, the possession of some remains
of this animal is a great desideratum among museums; and until
recently the only relics were in the museum of the Academy of Sciences
in St. Petersburg. In completing his famous voyage over the Euro-
pean seas, around by the Arctic Ocean and the Pacific, Professor Nor-
denskj6éld, obtained at Bering Island, of the Commander group, a num-
ber of bones of the Rhytina, of the acquisition of which he was justly
proud. Desirous of obtaining specimens of the animal for the Na-
tional Museum, the Smithsonian Institution very gladly availed itself
of the offer of the Alaska Commercial Company, the lessee from the
Russian Government of the Commander Islands, to transport Dr.
Stejneger in the vessel which carries the usual annual supplies to the
station, and hopes soon to report success in its efforts.

Oregon and Washington Territory.—During the year several very ac-
ceptable transmissions of objects of ethnology and natural history,
especially of fish products, have been made by Mr. James G. Swan, of
Port Townsend. This gentleman’s name has appeared for many years
in the Smithsonian report, as a valued contributor, not only of materials
but also of interesting memoirs which have been published in the Smith-
sonian Contributions to Knowledge, and in the Annual Reports.

Mr. Swan has been specially occupied during the year in collecting
material for the American display at the International Fishery Exhi-
bition, to be held in London in May next; and it is believed that his
collection, when received, will leave but little to be desired in the way
of a satisfactory representation of the aboriginal and other fisheries of
Puget Sound.

Capt. Charles Bendire, while stationed at Fort Walla Walla and at
Fort Klamath, has continued his researches into the bird life of the
Northwest; and, with his usual success, has secured many rare speci-
mens of the nests and eggs of birds, as well as of their skins.

To Captain Bendire we are also indebted for important collections of
reptiles, fishes, and small mammals, also fossil remains of both animals
and plants.

California.—Mr. R. EB. C. Stearns has been engaged in collecting ma-
terial along the coast of California for the London Fishery Exhibition,
and has also visited Puget Sound, Washington Territory, and Oregon
in the same connection; and to him we owe some interesting collections
of specimens in archeology obtained in the interior of California.

Mr. Gustav Eisen, a well-known naturalist, has also contributed some
acceptable collections in archeology from the vicinity of Fresno.

H. Mis. 26——2
18 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

Lower California.—The earlier volumes of the report of the Institu-
tion contain allusions to the important work of Mr. John Xantus in the
exploration of lower California, resulting in the discovery of a peculiar
fauna at Cape Saint Lucas, represented by numerous undescribed spe-
cies of birds, reptiles, fishes, &c. In the lapse of time, the collections
made by Mr. Xantus have been greatly reduced, and it is considered
eminently desirable to renew them.

Mr. L. Belding, of Stockton, Cal., undertook, largely at his own ex-
pense, to visit the region in question and explore it in the interest of
the Smithsonian Institution. This was done by him with very great
success, his work resulting in the recovery of most of the species ob-
tained by Mr. Xantus, with a number of additions. So promising, in-
deed, was the field, that the available time during the winter and early
spring of 1882 was not sufficient to complete the work, and he therefore
returned again towards the end of 1882, and is now occupied in his
mission. As Mr. Belding is a trained naturalist, especially in the
department of ornithology, much is expected from his researches. He
proposes to prepare, for publication by the Institution, a methodical
account of the vertebrate natural history of Lower California.

New Mexico and Arizona.—From New Mexico and Arizona the con-
tributions have, as usual, been chiefly in the line of ethnology, the
Ethnological Bureau having continued its work on a very large scale.
A special aecount will be found in another part of the report of the
work of this Bureau in the region referred to and elsewhere. It will
be, therefore, unnecessary to do more than mention the names of Maj.
J. W. Powell, Director of the Bureau, and Messrs. F. H. Cushing and
James Stevenson, in this connection.

From Mr. H. H. Rusby some interesting collections of plants and
specimens from Silver City have been received.

The United States Geological Survey has also collected very many
minerals, fossils, and rocks in these Territories, all of which are for
the present in charge of the Survey.

Interior of the United States—No véry important explorations have
been made in the interior of the country, other than those mentioned, ex-
cepting the work of the Ethnological Bureau, which, as already stated,
will be found detailed elsewhere.

Prof. D. S. Jordan, however, has prosecuted extensive inquiries into
the fishes of Texas, and Prof. Hay into those of the Southern States.

Florida.—Florida has been the scene of great activity in explora-
tion. Mr. 8. T. Walker has been engaged on the western coast of the
State, principally in collecting the archeological material; Mr. James
Bell, of Gainesville, has furnished large numbers of birds and living rep-
tiles; Dr. Henshall, collections of fishes; and Mr. Whitfield of reptiles.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 19

The most important collections, however, in Florida are those of the
fishes, made by Professor Jordan and Mr. Silas Stearns, of Pensacola,
the latter gentleman in continuation of very many previous transmis-
sions. Indeed, to no one are we more indebted than to Mr. Stearns for
a knowledge of the ichthyology of the Gulf of Mexico, his business con-
nection with the fish and fisheries, prosecuted from Pensacola as a basis,
enabling him to secure novelties as they presen! themselves. Several
papers describing a number of new species have been published by the
Institution on the collections made by Mr. Stearns, and other species
remain to be described. ;

Eastern portion of the United States.—In the eastern portion of the
United States the principal results have, as heretofore, been produced
by the United States Fish Commission, the continued investigations of
the steamer “ Fish Hawk” along the continental plateau having brought
to light many new forms of fishes and invertebrates, besides securing
numerous rarities, as well as duplicate specimens for distribution.

A special feature, in addition, has been the work connected with the
acquisition of material for the display of the London Fishery Exposi-
tion, opening in May next. An appropriation was made by Congress
for the purpose of securing suitable illustrations of the apparatus, proc-
esses, products, and results of the American fisheries; but the present
limits will not permit me to go into details, and a formal report will
hereafter be made on the subject.

The collections made in previous years by the Gloucester fishermen,
have not been continued to any great extent, in view of the fact that
the greater part of the objects coming within the limits of their work
have been obtained, the work of the “Fish Hawk” superseding largely
the less productive yield of the trawl and hand line.

West Indies.—From the West Indies a few objects of much interest
have been obtained, although no extended series. Mr. Guesde has con-
tinued his contributions of illustrations of a very valuable collection
of Carrib antiquities. Dr. Nicholls, of Dominica, Mr. Wells, of Grenada,
and Mr. F.. A. Ober, have all made contributions of more or less interest.

Mexico.—The receipts from Mexico are for the most part represented
by several collections from Prof. A. Dugés, of Guanajuato. This ac-
complished naturalist has been/in the habit, for many years, of sending
to the Institution specimens of animals and plants for indentification.

It is with deep regret that I am obliged to mention, in another part
of this report, the death of Mr. F. Sumichrast, of Tuchitan; who has
been, by far, our most important coadjutor in that country.

Central America.—The researches prosecuted in Central America,
under the auspices of the Smithsonian Institution, have been of unusual
importance in the results obtained, both of specimens and of informa-
tion; and of these quite a number are to be mentioned.
20 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

Dr. J. F. Bransford, a surgeon in the Navy, under the auspices of
both the Ethnological Bureau and the Smithsonian Institution, made
a special visit to Copan by way of Guatemala, and also spent a portion
of his time in Costa Rica and elsewhere. In his work he was able to
secure the hearty co-operation of Mr. Keith, the engineer of the Costa
Rica railroad, who kindly furnished some very valuable archeological
specimens for investigation. The collections of Dr. Bransford have
been also of very great value, especially in objects manufactured of
jade. Much of Dr. Bransford’s work on the Gulf of Nicoya, a region
previously but little known to us, is very interesting. Heis now engaged
in the preparation of an elaborate report of his travels, which will be
published at an early day.

Mr. C. C. Nutting, of Illinois, was sent by the Institution to explore
especially the fauna of the Gulf of Nicoya and Costa Rica, and with
the help of Sefior José C. Zeledon, a long-tried collaborator of the Insti-
tution, he was able to make some interesting collections both on the
coast and in the interior of Costa Rica. No new species were brought
to light, but many rare and interesting forms were secured.

Mr. Nutting returned from the work of the winter of 1881-’82 in April,
and went back again by the steamer of the 20th December, to continue
his researches on the northern border of Costa Rica and the eastern
coast of that state and Nicaragua.

Mr. Zeledon himself has furnished some interesting additions to the
very large collections of Costa Rica vertebrates previously received from -
him, among them some new species of birds.

It is but proper to state that the labors of Mr. Nutting and Dr. Brans-
ford were very greatly furthered by the hearty co-operation of Capt. John
M. Dow, the agent of the Pacific Mail Steamship Company at Panama,
who has been so well known for many years as a coadjutor in all re-
searches of a scientificnature, whether under the auspices of Americans
or foreigners. No man is better known along the Isthmus; and a sim-
ple request secures his assistance to scientific enterprise at whatever
point in Central America it may be in the course of prosecution.

Mr. Gustav Hisen, a correspondent of the Institution, formerly a resi-
dent of California, but during the past year living in Guatemala, has
made important researches among the antiquities of Copan, Santa Lucia,
&c. An extended memoir by him has been prepared for publication
by the Smithsonian Institution. He has also supplied some interesting
collections of natural history.

The Isthmus of Panama itself has been represented by the collec-
tions of reptiles sent by Dr. Nelson, of the English Mail Steamer serv-
ice, and of fishes by Mr. Gilbert.

The report upon the work of 1880 and 1881 contained an account of the
labors of Mr. Charles H. Gilbert in the way of ichthyological investiga-
tions along the western coast of America. This gentlemen returned to
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 22

Central America by the steamer of the 20th December, and expects to
devote a number of months, under the auspices of Captain Dow, to the
investigation of the fishes of the two shores of the Isthmus. It is proper
to say that for the co-operation which the scientific enterprises of both
Messrs. Nutting and Gilbert have received from the Pacific Mail Steam-
ship Company, and the amount of service rendered generally by the
company in question in the explorations of the Smithsonian Institution,
it is difficult to express our appreciation in words. For more than twenty
years, in all successive stages of administration, it has been ready to
respond to any reasonable request for service, not only carrying the
agents of the Institution free of charge, but also franking the collec-
tions transmitted by them to Washington.

South America.—From South America but little of importance has
been received, excepting from the Geological Survey of Brazil under
Prof. E. H. Derby. From him valuable collections of corals, fossils, &c.,
have been received, to be exchanged for some from the National Museum.

Dr. Hering, of Surinam, has sent collections of living reptiles, of
objects in alcohol, and specimens of anthropology, which have proved
very acceptable.

Mr. Thomas Herron, of Baranquilla, has also contributed some valu-
able archeological specimens.

Mr, W. FI’. Lee conducted an exploration in Peru and Ecuador with
some success during the months of July and August. He was obliged
to discontinue work on account of the hostility of the natives, who had
been prejudiced against explorers on account of the indiscretions of @
collector who had preceded Mr. Lee.

China and Japan.—The researches of Dr. Dale and Mr. P. L. Jouy,
in China and Japan, respectively, have been continued during the year
with very important results. Collections of great value of birds, mam-
mals, and other objects have come safely to hand from them. Dr. Dale
returned to the United States in the early part of the year, but Mr.
Jouy remained in Japan and visited some comparatively little known
portions of the country, where he found objects of very great interest.

Nothing of special moment has been received from the Old World,
beyond some occasional specimens of natural history exchanged with
museums or individuals. ‘These, with the details of the collections
generally, will be found recorded in the list of accessions to the Na-
tional Museum during the year.

PUBLICATIONS.

Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge.—In 1860 the Institution pub-
lished as one of the series of ‘‘Contributions to Knowledge,” the regis-
ter of meteorological observations made at Providence, R. I., by Prof.
Alexis Caswell, extending over a period of twenty-eight and a half
years, from December, 1831, to May, 1860. After the death of Professor
22 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

Caswell, manuscript containing additional observations for sixteen years
and a half, or to the end of the year 1876, was placed at the disposal of
the Institution. It was accordingly decided to publish summaries of
the entire series of observations, and the necessary reductions, arrange-
ment, and revision were placed under the direction of Messrs. Charles
A. Schott and E. H. Courtenay.

The result, a condensed epitome of continuous records for forty-five
years, of observations of the barometer and thermometer, of winds,
clouds, rain, snow, &c., has been published during the year, forming
a quarto volume of 38 pages, entitled “‘ Results of Meteorological Obser-
vations made at Providence, R. I, extending over a period of forty-five
years.” This will doubtless prove a useful work of reference, not merely
for students of meteorology, but for engineers and others.

Miscellaneous Collections.—T wo volumes of this series have been com-
pleted during the past year, Vol. XXII and Vol. XXIII. The former
is composed of the Proceedings of the United States National Museum
for 1880 and 1881, and forms an octavo volume of 1200 pages, with 18
wood-cuts and 4 plates.

The twenty-third volume is made up of the following papers:

Bibliography of Fishes of the Pacific coast of the United States. By
Theodore Gill.

On the Distribution of Fishes of the Alleghany Region of South Caro-
lina, Georgia, and Tennessee, with a synopsis of the family Catosto-
mide. By D.S. Jordan and A. W. Brayton.

Flora of Saint Croix and the Virgin Islands. By H. I. A. Eggers.

Catalogue of the Collection to illustrate the animal resources and the
fisheries of the United States, exhibited at Philadelphia in 1876 by the
Smithsonian Institution and the United States Fish Commission, and
forming a part of the United States National Museum. By G. Brown
Goode.

Contributions to the natural history of Arctic America, made in con-
nection with the Howgate Polar Expedition, 187778. By L. Kumlien.

These five articles formed Bulletins of the National Museum, Nos. 11
to 15, and are now collected in one volume of 1003 pages.

Mr. F. W. Clarke has prepared for the Institution another of the
series devoted to the discussion and more precise determination of
various constants of nature, forming the fifth contribution to that sub-
ject published in the Smithsonian series. It is entitled “A Recalculation
of the Atomic Weights,” and forms an octavo volume of 293 pages. It
may be regarded as practically supplementary to the “ Digest of Atomic
Weights,” by Mr. Geo. IF’. Becker, published by the Institution in 1880,
and of which an account was given in the report for that year.

One of the articles of the Miscellaneous Collections (No. 469, Smith-
sonian series), is a list of the foreign correspondents of the Institution,
corrected to January, 1882. It was prepared by Mr. Geo. H. Boehmer, in
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 23

charge of the exchange system, includes about 3,000 titles, and forms an
octavo volume of 174 pages, being No. 469 of the Smithsonian publica-

tion.
The various papers on anthropological subjects, contributed by Dr.

Chas. Rau to the Smithsonian Annual Reports, from 1860 to 1877, have
been collected and issued in one volume, with a preface by the author
containing notes as to changes and additions rendered necessary by re-
cent observations and researches.

The work forms an octavo volume of 180 pages, with 53 wood-cuts,
and corstitutes No. 440 of the Smithsonian series of publications.

The steady increase of publications by the Institution renders neces-
sary a frequent reissue and extension of the printed list of the same.
The last check-list (to the end of 1881) presented 438 titles, stated in
brief, and occupying 20 pages Svo. It wis at the time designed to have
a more complete catalogue prepared, giving the title-page of each work
in full. Mr. William J. Rhees has accordingly undertaken the labor
of compiling such a catalogue, in a much more thorough and satis-
factory form than has heretofore been attempted. This list (including
40 additional titles) has been brought down to the Ist of July, 1882.
The whole number of titles is 478; and in addition to a full biblio-
graphical description of each work, in the case of volumes which em-
brace several independent articles (as the Contributions, Collections,
Reports, Bulletins, and Proceedings), the contents of each are given.
This catalogue (of 89 pages) is followed by a classified list of all the
separate publications, under general heads. A very full alphabetical
index of all the articles contained in each of the publications (with
abundant cross-references) concludes the work. The whole (including
14 pages of prefatory information), comprises 342 pages, 8vo. In order
to make this catalogue still more available, it is intended to supple-
ment it with a complete subject-matter index of all the subjects treated
of in the different publications, including the miscellaneous papers fur-
nished in the annual reports.

A history of the rise and progress of the Smithsonian system of ex-
changes has been prepared by Mr. George H. Boehmer, of the Institu-
tion. The account is prefaced by a sketch of some earlier efforts at
interchanges of a limited character, in order to show more clearly the
distinctive features of the Smithsonian system as an agency of univer-
sal exchange among learned societies and others, irrespective of spe-
cial returns to itself. The history includes the work of the Institution
with reference to the distribution of Government publications; and
also a notice of the organization by the Paris convention of 1875, in
promotion of a system of international exchange of scientific and liter-
ary memoirs, together with the proceedings snbsequently taken by other
nations in the matter. The whole forms a pamphleé of 162 pages, 8vo.

The interest attached to Tuckahoe, or Indian bread, as a well-known
and largely diffused article of food among the aborigines of our country,
24 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

has led Prof. J. H. Gore to make a thorough examination into the nature
and properties of this fungus. By means of circulars of inquiry, widely
distributed by the Institution, a considerable amount of material and
information has been collected. This substance is found growing in
irregular masses of mycelium around the roots of trees—especially the
conifers—and is met with in certain districts as far north as New Jersey
and Pennsylvania, and even in parts of New York, and as far south as
Florida and Texas. Professor Gore has shown that the somewhat
varied accounts given by earlier writers result from a loose application
of the term tuckahoe to different substances and tubers, and that the
genuine article is destitute of starch, and, though abundant in pectinous
matter, possesses in itself but a small nutritive value. The essay is
comprised in a pamphlet of 13 pages.

Since the publication by this Institution in 1862 of a work on the
‘Classification of the Coleoptera of North America,” by Dr. John L.
Le Conte, and in 1873 of a second part to the same, not only has the
collection of specimens been largely increased by the industry of entomol-
ogists, but many new genera previously unknown have been added to
this large and important order or group of insects. It has therefore been
thought desirable to have the original treatise thoroughly revised and
brought up to the present condition of the science. This laborious work
has been undertaken by the joint efforts of Drs. John Le Conte and George
H. Horn; and the new edition now nearly completed, has been put in
print as far as to page 480. Not more than a hundred pages will now
be required to finish this extensive systematic arrangement and descrip-
tion of the Coleoptera, and the work will be published early in 1883.

In October of the past year, the Institution commenced the printing
of a General Catalogue of Scientific Periodicals published in all parts
of the world since 1665, compiled by Prof. H. Carrington Bolton, of
Trinity College, Hartford, Conn. The plan of this catalogue does not
include the proceedings and transactions of societies, nor does it in-
clude art journals or professional journals, that is, periodicals devoted
to the subjects of law, medicine, or theology. This work originally
brought down to the year 1874, by Prof. Bolton, it was at first supposed
would be published by Congress under the auspices of the Congressional
Library. The subsequent publication by Mr. Samuel H. Scudder of
his admirable “Catalogue of Scientific Serials of all countries (includ-
ing the transactions of Iearned societies), from 1633 to 1876,” seemed
for the time to supersede the work on which Professor Bolton had been
solongengaged. As the latter, however, included the large field of “ ap-
plied” science (so called), such as the periodical literature of manufact-
ures, agriculture and horticulture, pharmacy, and technology in general
(not embraced in Mr. Scudder’s catalogue), and as it presented the
great advantage of a purely alphabetical arrangement instead of the
geographical classification adopted by Mr. Scudder, the Institution
undertook its publication on condition that it should be continued to
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 25

the year 1882. This additional labor was cheerfully undertaken by the
author, and it is hoped that the work will be completed during the year
1883. It will contain geographical, chronological, and subject-matter
indexes, and also—what is regarded as a valuable feature in a biblio-
graphical work of the kind—an appendix stating the American libra-
ries in which any of the periodicals catalogued (and indicated by a num-
ber) are to be found. To attain this information, circulars have been
prepared and will be sent to some two hundred librarians (including
twelve in Canada), explaining the project and soliciting their co-opera-
tion in this particular. It is probable that this proposed bibliographical
aid to scientific students will embrace references to at least a hundred
libraries. The work when completed will form an octavo volume of
probably somewhere between 700 and 800 pages.

For the purpose of ascertaining the methods employed in various
public and private offices, of indexing and filing letters and other
papers, and of thence determining by a comparative review the most
convenient and practical system, a circular was issued in Jafiuary, 1882,
requesting our correspondents to furnish the institution with a detailed
account of the method employed by each. Thankful acknowledgments
are due to the various Government officials and to a large number of
others who have courteously responded to this inquiry. A large amount
of interesting information on this subject has been thus collected, which
will be properly digested and published by the Institution hereafter.

The usual activity in the preparation and publication (through the
agency of the Interior Department) of the “Bulletins” and ‘“ Proceed-
ings” of the United States National Museum has been displayed during
the past year.

Bulletin No. 24 of the Museum has been issued, and eqnsists of a
“ Check-list of North American Reptilia and Batrachia, with catalogue
of specimens in the United States National Museum, by H. C. Yarrow,
M. D., honorary curator of the department of reptiles.” This work
may be regarded as a revision and extension of the excellent list pre-
pared for the Museum by Prof. Edward D. Cope, and published in 1875
in Bulletin No. 1. The material selected as a reserve stock for the Mu-
seum, including typical forms heretofore described, those identified by
Professor Cope in his original study of the museum reptiles, those of the
same species found in different geographical areas, and those character-
ized by any abnormality in parts, coloration, or scale covering, forms &
collection of over 4,000 specimens, illustrating 469 species, and is be-
lieved to form a series unrivaled by that of any American museum.
The large extension of material here indicated is mainly due to the dis-
covery of new species and sub-species in California and Lower Califor-
nia by Messrs. Gustav Hisen and L. Belding, and in Texas by Professor
Cope and Mr. Marnock.

The first part of the work consists of a simple “ check-list” of the 469
species, in which an attempt has been made to introduce some kind of
26 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

uniformity in the popular designation of a species, to supersede the
numerous local names in use, by giving an English equivalent of the
technical Latin and Greek titles employed by naturalists. The next,
and larger portion of the work is devoted to a specification of the locality,
source, and nature of the various preserved examples of each species,
with a biblographical reference to a good published description thereof.
Following this is a ‘ List of specimens desired by the National Museum,”
numbering in all 132, of which, however, 78 are duplicates wished for
of examples already in the collection, leaving but 54 new species desired
to complete the Museum series. The whole is followed by copious in-
dexes ; Ist, to the generic and specific names; 2d, to the common names;
3d, to the localities whence obtained ; 4th, to the names of contributors;
and lastly, the general index. This bulletin forms an octavo volume of
254 pages. This work is to be followed by a supplementary one giving
a careful and concise description of each species of the class. This is
now in preparation.

Bulletin No. 22 of the National Museum has been published during
the year. Itis entitled ‘‘Guide to the Flora of Washington and vicinity,”
by Lester F. Ward. The work, besides the catalogue of the flora of the
District, with full notes, contains a sketch of the early botanical labors
undertaken by former students, the range of the flora, notices of local-
ities of special interest, the flowering-time of plants, and many interest-
ing facts relating to autumnal flowering, albinos, and double flowers, a
statistical view of the flora, a comparison with others, notes upon abun-
dant and scarce species, classification, common names, &c. There is also
included a check-list of the plants for the use of those who may be form-
ing herbaria and an excellent map of the region considered. An ap-
pendix is devoted to directions for collecting, which gives ample instruc-
tion for the preparation of an herbarium, the collection, preservation,
and identification of plants, as well as the proper way to arrange dupli-
cates for readily making exchanges. This is also published in separate
form as No. 460 of Smithsonian series. A full and complete index forms
a useful feature of the work, the whole making an octavo volume of 265
pages.

Another Bulletin of the National Museum, No. 11, which had been for
a long time in the hands of the printer, was issued during 1882. It is
entitled ‘‘ Bibliography of the Fishes of the Pacific Coast of the United
States to the end of 1879,” by Theodore Gill. The author gives an
enumeration in chronological order of the memoirs and articles of all
kinds that have been published on the fishes of the Pacifie coast of the
United States. The Bulletin forms an octavo volume of 77 pages.

The important work of Mr. Samuel H. Scudder, referred to in the
report for 1880, relative to the names which have been given by writers
on natural history to genera, has been published in part during the
year. It forms Bulletin No. 19 of the National Museum, and is entitled
“¢ Nomenclator Zoologicus. An alphabetical list of all generic names
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 27

that have been employed by naturalists for recent and fossil animals
from the earliest times to the close of the year 1879.” In two parts.
Part I. “ List of Generic names employed in Zoology and Paleontology
to the close of the year 1879, chiefly supplemental to those catalogued
by Agassiz and Marschall, or indexed in the Zoological Record.” It
forms an octavo volume of 398 pages.

Of the class of “ Proceedings of the National Museum,” volume IV
has been published. This work, commenced in April 1881, printed by
signatures as matter was prepared, and completed in August, 1882,
comprises biological and other notices by S. F. Baird, T. H. Bean, C.
Bendire, C. H. Boyd, W. E. Carlin, W. H. Dall, F. M. Endlich, W. G.
Farlow, C. H. Gilbert, T. Gill, W.C. W. Glazier, G. Brown Goode, G. W.
Hawes, E. Ingersoll, S. H. Johnson, D. 8S. Jordan, P. L. Jouy, G. N.
Lawrence, W. N. Lockington, O. Lugger, C. L. McKay, M. A. Moore,
A. Pirz, F. M. Plateau, J. Y. Porter, R. Rathbun, C. Rau, R. Ridgway,
J. A. Ryder, R. W. Shufeldt, R. Smith, S. B. Smith, L. Stejneger, F.
W. True, L. F. Ward, and C. A. White. These papers are followed by
anappendix of 141 pages, comprising 18 circulars issued by the Museum.
The whole forms an octavo volume of 680 pages, illustrated by 1 plate
of 15 figures, and by 15 figures in the text.

For several years past, under the co-operation of the Smithsonian
Institution and the United States Coast and Geodetic Survey, a collec-
tion has been made of the data obtainable as to the relative heights of
points over the surface of the continent of North America, with a view
to gather these together for permanent record and publication, and to
form the groundwork of a hypsometrieal map.

This colleggion has been intrusted to Mr. W. L. Nicholson, topog-
rapher of the Post-Office Department, who has devoted as much leisure
time as he could command to the extensive correspondence required and
to the co-ordination of the large mass of material gathered. But the
engrossing nature of the duties of his office, having delayed the progress
of this work, a transfer has been made during the past year of all this
material from the-Smithsonian Institution—under whose more imme-
diate direction the work has been prosecuted—tv the Coast and Geo-
detic Survey, one of whose officers may be assigned for the continuation
of this important subject.

Smithsonian Annual Report.—I regret to state that up to this time, the
annual report of the Regents for 1881 has not been published. It was
transmitted to Congress on the Ist of March, 1582, and has ever since
been in the hands of the Public Printer.

This work includes the usual Journal of Proceedings of the Board of
Regents, with the reports of the Secretary, of the Executive Committee,
and of the National Museum Building Commission. The ‘General
Appendix” contains first a ‘‘ Record of recent scientific progress.” In-
troduction by the Secretary; astronomy, by E.S. Holden; meteorology,
28 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

&c., by Cleveland Abbe; physics, by G. F. Barker; chemistry, by the
same; botany, by W. G. Farlow; zoology, by Theodore Gill, and anthro-
pology, by O. T. Mason; next, miscellaneous papers and abstracts relat-
ing to anthropology, and the papers by J. Howard Gore, on tuckahoe
or Indian bread; and by G. H. Boehmer, on the history of the Smith-
sonian system of exchanges; both of which have already been de-
scribed. The whole will form an octavo volume of something over 800
pages, illustrated with 83 cuts.

ASTRONOMICAL ANNOUNCEMENTS BY TELEGRAPH.

The service undertaken by the Institution in 1863, in the interests of
astronomicakscience, of acting as the central medium of reception and
transmission of telegraphic announcements of discoveries, continues to
be rendered, with general satisfaction to observers. It is of course
understood that this Institution is merely the channel of an international
exchange of astronomical research, and that it undertakes to act only
as the intermediary between foreign and domestic observatories, though
it has long been a desideratum to have the announcements of American
discoveries fully distributed in our own country—a result which has
to some extent been effected by the constant practice of the Institution
to have both foreign and American discoveries promptly transmitted
to the New York and National Associated Press for immediate publi-
cation.

The Atlantic Cable Company and the Western Union Telegraph
company still continue with their accustomed liberality to forward
the Smithsonian dispatches free of charge; an enlightened apprecia-
tion of the public value of such researches, and a courted&s and hearty
co-operation in scientific work which should always receive our most
thankful recognition.

The following is the list of astronomical discoveries of minor planets
and comets made during the past year:

List of planetoids discovered in 1882.

No. Name. Date. Discoverer. pee ea Observatory.
QA MMOS 2 Sete eee Jans 08h | baligazeeeeeamecee 30th. | Pola.
O22 ebineiae. eee Mebs, 69) se alise sce ences 31st. Pola.
22or OSB cas s<4)<s ce Mar. 10) Ralisatescese---= se 32d. Pola.
224 | Oceana ....-.. Mar. 301) Palisa ss) 225¢4eeen- 33d. Pola.
225) NHenrietta..s0-|(-April: 19) Palisa. 22. s).cosee 34th. | Pola.
226 | Weringia .....) July 19 | Palisa.........-... 35th. | Pola.
227 | Philosophia ...| Aug. 12} Prosper Henry..... 8th. | Paris.
228 | Agathe ......- Aug: 19) Palisa cs. cocaine eeees 36th. | Pola.
229 | Adelina ...-.... Aug. 22 | Palisa. .- oo oncecn 37th. | Pola.
230 | Athamantis ...| Sept. 3 | L. de Ball.....-..- 1st.

231 | Vindobonda...| Sept. 10 | Palisa.........---- 38th Pola.

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 29

Tt will be noticed that while only one new planetoid was observed in
1881 (the year of the last report), eleven have been discovered in the
year 1882. The irregularity of numbers added to the list in successive
years has not been observed to follow any assignable rule. The follow-
ing table gives a synopsis of the whole range of planetoidal discovery
by years, including the first four leading bodies of the group observed
at the beginning of the present century:

Whole number of planetoids yearly discovered.

EOL Sele. Li EIB AS rl a 1b) is emosee AT L862 pane By Pde eee ease 2 NMST6 02a s 12
18022- =<: IU [ei ke? eae iby |) dhe oS See DO) ll ebaere mee Po {vier (Uae esse BUS Sab ao se 10
te eh eae A ABSOlS = =. 3) |PLeohsseaes On NiS64ar Fees a aleikoy dea aeee Dull Weve easeoe 12
Shee eee Ja eikc sy ia eee al alte Store ae ay {fal kee oaele OSG seeee Lae LS7O see sae 20
ike eee | ake Sy ee Bi) T8592 Sac Paks ne Sasae Guile 7a eesa=- 6) | 1S8e0 sone. 8
1846-2225. (0))|| ke} Sone A’ 1860/2223. - 5) | LSO7 se 3552 A ALS TA eS (@ |Pelenseossee i
1 pote ae cP Relay. Sree (|) belo oes ase 10) SES6822222- 1a Rey Gyagee ae 17g) WSB2 occ coe 11

From this table it is seen that while only 13 of these bodies had been
detected in the first half of the century, the remaining 218 all belong to
the past thirty-two years. Or, while the first quarter gave 4, the second
quarter gave 9, the third quarter 144, and the last quarter gives the
still higher rate of more than 10 per annum. Or, still more specifically
(following the columns of the table), the first forty-seven years gave 8,
the next seven years 25, the next seven years 39, the next seven years
35, the next seven years 50, and the last seven years 74.

Distribution of the discovery of planetoids.
1 discovered in 1801, 1802, 1804, 1807, 1845, 8 discovered in 1852, 1880.

1848, 1849, 1859, ‘1881. 9 discovered in 1857.
2 discovered in 1851, 1863, 1869. 10 discovered in 1861, 1877.
3 discovered in 1847, 1850, 1864, 1865, 1870. | 11 discovered in 1872, 1882.
A discovered in 1853, 1855, 1867. 12 discovered in 1868, 1876, 1878.
5 discovered in 1856, 1858, 1860, 1862, 1871. | 17 discovered in 1875.
6 discovered in 1854, 1866, 1873, 1874. 20 discovered in 1879.

Inst of comets observed in 1882.

No. Name. Date. Discoverer. Observatory.

I | Wells’ comet .--. - Mar. 17 | Charles S. Wells ..| Albany, N. Y.

II | Crull’s comet -...; Sept. 7 | Mr. Finlay -....---| Capeof Good Hope, S. Africa.
NG Hace soe soca eee Sept. 13 | E. E. Barnard ----. Nashville, Tenn.

The following brief notice of these interesting objects has been kindly
furnished by Prof. Asaph Hall, of the U. S. Naval Observatory.

‘“Comet I, 1882, was discovered by Charles 8. Wells at the Dudley
Observatory, Albany, N. Y., March 17, 1882. Observations were made
in the southern hemisphere until July 25,1882. No definitive orbit has
been determined yet, but probably the orbit is nearly parabolic.” [That
is, a very elongated ellipse. |
30 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

“Comet II, 1882, was the great comet of the year. It was seen with
the naked eye, at many places in the northern hemisphere; but the
first accurate observations seem to be those made by Mr. Finlay at
the Cape of Good Hope on September 7. This comet was very
bright, and was remarkable on account of several condensed parts that
were seen in its nucleus, and which led to statements of a separation
of this nucleus. But these brighter parts were always connected by
fainter parts of the coma. It is probable that these apparent separa-
tions have led to discordancies in the observations, which will make it
difficult to combine the numerous positions of this comet into a homo-
geneous system. Several elliptic orbits have been computed, the pe-
riodic times varying from five hundred to a thousand years.”

‘Comet 11f 1882, was a faint object. It was discovered by Mr. E. E.
Barnard, at Nashville, Tenn., September 13, 1882. Observations were
made in the southern hemisphere on December 8, and probably it was
followed longer. The orbit seems to be parabolic.”

The wide interest felt by astronomers in the Smithsonian interna-
tional announcements of planetary and cometary discoveries is evinced
by the number of proposals and suggestions received at the Institution,
for increasing the range and efficiency of the service. On one hand,
frequent applications have been made to the Institution urging that
American discoveries should be widely telegraphed at home as well as
abroad. On another, it has been repeatedly urged that in view of the
comparatively ephemeral character of the appearances of most of the
comets, frequent and prompt announcements should be telegraphed of
observed changes of position from day to day, as well as of provisional
computations of orbits. Valuable as such early information would evi-
dently be, the Institution has not been able (in the support of its other
multitudinous interests) to incur the additional expense of such trans-
missions. And the liberality of the various telegraphic companies has.
already been so extended beyond original purpose and proposal, that
we can hardly, with propriety, solicit this large increase of concession.

The “Science Observer,” published at Boston, has (with a commend-
able enterprise), in connection with the Harvard College Observatory,
entered this field of active usefulness, and by means of “special cir-
culars” has acceptably supplemented the work of the Institution in this.
department. The peculiar cable code employed by the ‘ Science Ob-
server” has not however commended itself for adoption by the Smith-
sonian Institution.

There has been some difference of opinion among astronomers as to
the best form of presentation of the elements of position of a new comet
or planetoid. From want of care, or of attention by some to the pub-
lished formule in announcing their discoveries, difficulties of interpre-
tation have occasionally arisen. A portion of the correspondence of
the Institution on this subject is given in the appendix to this report.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 31

INTERNATIONAL EXCHANGES.

The Smithsonian system, so long conducted with benefit to libraries
and individuals in this country and abroad, has received new impetus
and extension during the past year. I have already referred to an
elaborate history of the system, and of the efforts made to promote in-
terchange of the literary and scientific productions of different countries,
published by the Institution during the year, and it is only necessary
here to present the usual statistics of the service. For a full account
of the details of operations I refer to Mr. Boehmer’s report in the ap-
pendix.

The total number of establishments outside of the United States with
which correspondence and exchange have been conducted amounts to
3,726, an increase of about 800 over the list of 1881. The number of
packages received from Europe for distribution in the United States
during the past year amounted to 7,187; the number of packages from
the United States received for transmission abroad has amounted to
19,292; making an aggregate of 26,479 packages.

The parcels received from Europe for distribution in America are
generally forwarded to their respective destinations in smaller bundles,
or in paper wrappers. The parcels received for transmission to foreign
countries are carefully packed in boxes. Of these there were shipped
during the past year 422, occupying a bulk of 2,950 cubic feet, and
weighing 105,500 pounds.

AS ete tatone: the Institution is greatly indebted to the lines of ocean
steamers between the United States and other countries of the world;
and grateful acknowledgment is due particularly to the agents of the
following companies for the continuation of their important favors in
the free transmission of Smithsonian packages: Anchor Steamship Com-
pany, Atlas Steamship Company, Compagnie Générale Transatlantique,
Cunard Steamship Company, Hamburg American Packet Company,
Inman Steamship Company, Merchants’ Line of Steamers, Netherlands
American Steam Navigation Company, New York and Brazil Steamship
Company, New York and Mexico Steamship Company, North German
Lloyd Steamship Company, Pacific Mail Steamship Company, Pacific
Steam Navigation Company, Panama Railroad Company, Steamship
Lines for Brazil, Texas, Florida, and Nareat N. P., White Cross Line
of Antwerp.

The railroad companies connecting Washington and Baltimore and
New York have also continued their favor of special rates of charges for
freight. These are the Pennsylvania Railroad, the Baltimore and Ohio
Railroad, and the Baltimore and Potomac Railroad.

Acknowledgments are also due to the foreign ministers and consuls
of the various Governments for their assistance in taking charge of the
packages intended for the countries which they respectively represent
and transmitting them with care to their destination.
32 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

Receipts.

In 1880.\In 1881./In 1882.

1. For foreign distribution:
From Government Departments (packages)...--.---- 2,071 | 4,326 6, 470
From Smithsonian Institution.......--...---...---- 3,156 | 5,436 7, 056
rom sSOLentit Oi MOCIOLICB..-- 2 2= --s-- esse e eee ee eee 3, 631 5, 119
Hromindividuals; 22.1%... U. saco tee ee ee ee 8, 948 768 647
14,175 | 14,161 | 19,292
2D WHorilome dist bubionucicceciccnce «csocs osnoomeeeeeoe 6,670 | 7,890 7, 187
3. For Government exchanges. .......---....-:----- «----- 15,200 | 15,550 | 31,568
Total receipts, packages...-......-...--.------------| 36,045 | 37,551 | 58, 047

Transmissions during the last eight years.
1. FOREIGN EXCHANGES.

1875.

1876. | 1877. | 1878. | 1879. | 1880. | 1881. | 1882.

Number of boxes. ..-. 208 323 397 309 3il 268 407 422
Bulk, in cubic feet -.-} 1,513 | 2,261 | 2,779 | 2,160 | 2,177 | 1,976 | 2,800 2,950
Weight, in pounds - ../45, 300 |80, 750 |99, 250 |69, 220 (69,975 (60, 300 |100, 750 | 105,500

2. DOMESTIC EXCHANGES.

Total addresses to in-

stijutions 2..2<..224. 329 310 392 392 444 385 600 548
Total addresses to in-
Grividuals'ss.. 2-5 so- 281 328 374 370 341 560 454 399

-_———— | | — | | |

Total number of par-
cels to institutions -| 3,619 | 3,705 | 3,868 | 4,059 | 5,786 | 4,021 | 7,086 7,192
Total number of par-
cels to individuals -| 1,042 | 1,148 | 1,094 | 1,233 | 1,185 | 1,566] 1,347 1, 167

Toeebmnber of par- | 4,661 | 4,853 | 4,962 | 5,292 | 6,971 | 5,587 | 8,433 8, 359
ce

3. GOVERNMENT EXCHANGES.

otal number of boxes. 64

12 | 3 73 or 5 | 8 | 122

Foreign institutions in correspondence with the Smithsonian Institution.

ATI GAs ties nett as ene he Teh s Al: ((Muropes-ceecseeepe ces. ses ceses 3, 344
AMMOMIOR come veces se res re career ones aii ete) Manis ho oe enh cosd5 Jods 2
ASAT Ses oa so= winace sen Ses stanclcics ies ————
Australian 22220 o5203 2p eo tebe aeee 89 3, 726

Comparative table of same during the last ten years.

1873. | 1874. 1875. 1876. 1878. 1879.

1877.

2,145 | 2,146 | 2,207 2,295 | 2,330 | 2, 333 2,481 | 2,602 | 2,908 | 3, 726
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 33

Government Document Exchange.—In addition to its general function of
intermediary between the institutions of the New World and the Old,
the Smithsonian Institution has been for some years the agent of the Goy-
ernment for the exchange of public documents and other official publi-
cations, in the interest of the Library of Congress, and under the provis-
ions of law. By act of Congress, fifty copies of all publications of the
United States Government, whether ordered for the use of Congress or
of the Departments, are available for distribution, under the direction
of the Joint Library Committee of the two houses of Congress, to such
foreign Governments as agree to make a corresponding return. These
returns, when received, are forwarded directly to the Library of Con-
gress, without being entered on the records of this Institution. A
detailed report in an appendix gives all the information possessed un-
der this head, including the aggregate of such distribution, the agencies
through which it has been effected, ane the parties ened in the
exchange. <

List of Governments to which boxes 16” and “17” were sent in 1882.

Argentine Confeder- | Denmark. India. Russia.
ation. France. Italy. South Australia.
Buenos Ayres. Germany. Japan. Spain.
Bavaria. Prussia. Mexico. Sweden.
Belgium. Saxony. Netherlands. Switzerland.
Brazil. Wirtemberg. New South Wales. | Tasmania.
Canada. Great Britain. New Zealand. Turkey.
Ontario. Greece. Norway. Venezuela.
Chili. Hayti. Portugal. Victoria.
Colombia, U. S. of | Hungary. Queensland.

Colombia, Hungary, and India were furnished with the entire set of
17 boxes (A to Rk). France has received 2 sets of all the documents.
except box 17,” of which only one was sent, the practice of sending
double sets having been discontinued.

LIBRARY.

The large increase in the number of books and pamphlets received in
1881 (the total number amounting to 11,959 pieces) has been well main-
tained during 1882, by the accession of 11,789 pieces, as detailed in the
following statement. This, compared with the 8,570 pieces received in
1880, represents a very gratifying increase.

te already explained, the books and articles received by the Smith-
sonian Institution (excepting only such as are needed for immediate
reference by the specialists of the Institution and National Museum)
are deposited at once in the Library of Congress, and represent a very
large part of the mass there which is at present calling so earnestly for
proper accommodation.

Reference has been made in a preceding report to the arrangements
for obtaining a special library for the service of the National Museum;

H. Mis. 26——3
34 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

the effort being made in all cases to secure duplicate copies of the trans-
actions, monographs, &c.; one to be transferred to the Library of Con-
gress, the other to be placed in the library in question.

The report of Mr. True, in charge of the National Museum Library,
shows a stock of nearly 10,000 volumes and pamphlets; nearly all du-
plicates, as already explained, with the exception of certain works pre-
sented by myself. In the increasing amount of routine work with which
I am charged in the several capacities of Secretary of the Smithsonian
Institution, Director of the National Museum, and Commissioner of
Fish and Fisheries, it has become entirely out of the question to con-
tinue those special researches in zoology, to which I devoted so much
time in the early years of my connection with the Smithsonian Institu-
tion, and for which I had accumulated, at my own expense, a large
number of important works. These I have now formally presented to
the Library of the National Museum, feeling assured that they will do
the most good in that connection.

The most important source of supply to the Library of the National
Museum consists in the direct exchanges of publications for those of
foreign museums, and of scientific societies, and of specialists in natu-
ral history. Little, if anything, however, comes in not obtained under
similar circumstances by the exchanges of the Smithsonian Institution.

Under the regulations of the Museum, the curators in charge of special
divisions are permitted to withdraw from the central library all works
relating exclusively to the departments of which they have charge.
Mixed works, however, or those covering the scope of at least two or
more divisions, are retained in the central library; a record of the
transfer being kept in the central office, so that an applicant for a par-
ticular book can be directed to the office where it is to be found.

It is very desirable that some arrangement be made by which a rec-
ord of all books in the various public libraries in Washington can be
kept in some central office; so that a person wishing to refer to a par-
ticular title may have the means of knowing whether it is in the city,
and which of several depositories may be the most convenient to him.
This can best be done through the natural center of reference—the
Library of Congress.

If a law were passed making it obligatory upon the librarians of the
various Departments, Bureaus, &c., to prepare card catalogues accord-
ing to the rules of the Congressional Library, and to deposit therein a
duplicate set, they could be then collectively arranged in proper alpha-
betival or systematic sequence, and be available for the objects in ques-
tion. Of course this would involve a considerable amount of clerical
labor, but a moderate appropriation might be made to meet it at the
outset; after which the annual accretions of the libraries could easily be
recorded without extra expense.

The following is a statement of books, pamphlets, maps, and charts
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 35

received by the Smithsonian Institution during the year 1882, and trans-
ferred to the Library of Congress or to that of the National Museum:

Volumes:
OctayGiorsamaller soc D5 ciaesene emails a= ais mee 3) 2122 993
GUaEPOORe aren. ois. c'< .'d hia ctaeten sete see ieiaelasee ba 303
1, 296
Parts of volumes :
elavOr OT SMAN EL. cie.0'oo.~ = c.ceke eeleee ss eb wise elwia ies 3, 005
Oia ROTATE CL) afore jola.c sale) cote eye ep tetaialat aire -faie! alsin 5, 034
8, 039
Pamphlets:
Octavo or smaller... .......22% snodgemssacoiat ~. 1,932
UARCOMOL LAT OED 5... i.) - 0 2 -lejsieesioyels ale eieeieunie sawis atm 5 '= 370
2, 302
SEU SPAM UCN AT USNs Sarco Sel keete ee Seas saat en ta emiee ore eiatohs 152
AT £2) DR A eet eg RTT SS SRE RIE os SEU ere Ook 11, 789
Totals received for the last ten years.
d(C are ae, See 3 Se Sap Di GOT NAST S 2 2. tema spe a Safe epee =f. Skee
ere asic es Selo. atc ais Dy D464) US tO cre sia ows erect oe 10, 203
MSN tates facie, e ote im a ca sian = Ge OLGMASSORE Sociale aces eciet ss 8, 570
Wee eda kidcta'e leas se ee ci TOSS SIA Sess a Sass ee 11, 959
1 ee ee re SHAG MESA: Ss ee ely ok 11, 789

It should be mentioned that the Secretary of the Interior has granted
to employés of the National Museum the use of the library of his De-
partment on Mondays between 2 and 4 o’clock p. m.

NECROLOGY.

I have to record the lamented death of Mrs. HARRIET A. HENRY,
widow of Professor HENRY, which took place in this city on the 25th of
last March. This estimable lady, a native of Schenectady, N. Y., whose
maiden name was Harriet L. Alexander, was married to Prof. Joseph
Henry, at Albany, N. Y., in May, 1850. For forty-eight years she en-
joyed a happy domestic life, respected and beloved by all who knew
her. The death of her honored husband in 1878 was a severe blow,
from which she never fully recovered.

The melancholy duty devolves upon me of announcing the death
of two employés of the Smithsonian Institution during the past year.
The two whose loss I have to record are Dr. George W. Hawes, curator
of the department of mineralogy and economic geology in the National
Museum, who died on the 22d of June, 1882; and Mr. Joseph B. Her-
ron, janitor of the National Museum, who died on the 9th of April,
1882.

The following sketch of the life and scientific labors of Dr. Hawes

has been prepared by Mr. F. P. Dewey, curator of metallurgy in the
National Museum:
36 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

“GEORGE WESSON HAWES, son of Rev. Alfred Hawes and Clarissa
P. Partridge, was born December 31, 1849, at Marion, Ind., where his
father was engaged in missionary labor. But a small portion of his
life, however, was spent in his native place, as both his parents died
when he was quite young, in consequence of which the family was
broken up, and he removed to Worcester, Mass., where he was taken
care of and brought up by kind friends. His early education and prep-
aration for the Sheffield Scientific School was obtained in the public
schools of Worcester. In 1865 he becamea member of the Sheffield Sci-
entific School at New Haven, where he remained two years, at the end of
which time he went to Boston to go into business. Business life, how-
ever, did not at all suit him, as his natural love for science and investi-
gation and the acquirement of knowledge for its own sake was unusually
Strong, so that, despite a very flattering offer to remain in Boston, in
1871 he returned to New Haven, and graduated from the Sheffield
Scientific School in 1872.* The year after graduation he was Prof. 8.
W. Johnson’s private assistant in his laboratory at New Haven. At
the beginning of the college year 1873, he became assistant to Prof.
Geo. J. Brush, and instructor in mineralogy and blowpipe in the Shef-
field Scientific School, a position which he filled very successfully and
uninterruptedly until 187 8, and with some intermissions until the end
of 1880. His duties in this position were very congenial to his tastes
and allowed him to devote considerable time to his favorite studies
and lay a permanent foundation for his after work. It was during the
early portion of this period that microscopic lithology began to come
into prominence, and he was among the first in this country to study
that subject carefully and thoroughly, and so impressed was he with its ,
possibilities that he made it his specialty and during the remainder of
his life gave it his best efforts, doing all in his power to aid in its devel-
opment. He was so successful that at the time of his death he was the
recognized authority upon the subject in this country. In the spring
of 1878, he went abroad and spent the summer semester at Breslau,
under Prof. A. Von Laslaux, studying chiefly microscopic lithology. The
winter of 187879 was spent at New Haven, and in the spring of 1879
he again went abroad and remained until June, 1880. During this visit
he divided his time between mineralogy and crystallography at Bonn,
with Professor Vem Rath, and lithology at Heidelberg, with Professor
Rosenbusch, from whom he won golden opinions. Before returning he
took the degree of Doctor of Philosophy at the latter university. The
remainder of 1880 was spent at New Haven, but at the end of November
he was appointed a special agent of the tenth census to investigate the
quarry industry of the United States, and on the 1st of January, 1881,
curator of the geological department in the National Museum, which
occasioned his removal to Washington, D. C.

“The summer of 1872 was passed at Eastport, Maine, one of the party of the
United States Fish Commission, then prosecuting its fishery investigations in the
waters of the Bay of Fundy.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. SE

‘“<Up to this time his life, although quite prolific in results, had been
mainly one of study and preparation, and very few, indeed, of his age
could be found so well prepared to undertake extensive and far-reaching
investigations. Upon coming to Washington the investigation of the
quarry industries of the country, which was undertaken under the joint
auspices of the Smithsonian Institution and the census, opened up a
broad and almost unoccupied field for his activities, and he undertook it
with all the earnestness and zest of one well prepared and confident of
accomplishing much good in the increase of knowledge. The plan of this
workas laid out by Dr. Hawes was very broad and comprehensive in its
scope. Besides the collection, arrangement, and study of the statistics
of the industries, it included the study and description of the occurrence
and preparation of building stones; the collection of specimens from all
the regions of production which, when properly dressed, should form a
graphic representation of the natural materials of construction of the
whole country; the thorough examination of these specimens microscop-
ically, chemically and physically; and, in fact, the thorough and com-
plete study of the subject in all its branches; so that had he lived to
complete the work there can be no doubt that it would have been very
fruitful of good results. His earnestness and zeal, however, led him to
overtax himself, and it was not long before it became evident to his
friends, although not to himself, that his health was being seriously
undermined; but near the end of the year even he became alarmed at
the evident signs of consumption that had developed themselves, and
he decided to take a respite from active work, which he did by a trip to
Bermuda. This, however, failed to afford any relief, and he gradually
sank after his return, until finally, as a last resort, he went to Colorado.
But the disease was too far advanced to be checked, and he lived but a
short time after his arrival in Colorado. The final dissolution came
rather suddenly, as up to the day before his death he was able to be up
and dressed and about the house. His remains were interred at Wor-
cester, Mass., June 28.

_ “The removal of one so well prepared and adapted to undertake exten-
sive investigations is a great loss to the world of science. Had he lived
there can be no doubt that he would have reached many valuable re-
sults, and his untimely death was sadly deplored by all who knew him.
Dr. Hawes’s contributions to science were mainly in the line of his spec-
ialty—microscopic lithology—and consist of some twenty articles pub-
lished in the American Journal of Science; three in the Proceedings of
the National Museum; an annual report upon geology and mineralogy
in the Annual Report of the Smithsonian Institution for 1880, and part Iv
of Volume III of the Report of the Geological Survey of New Hamp-
shire, entitled the ‘Mineralogy and Lithology of New Hampshire’. The
latter covers 251 pages quarto, embellished by twelve plates, and is his
mostvaluableandimportant completed work. It includes the results of
the examination of between two and three hundred thin sections of rocks,
38 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

some of which were very important andinstructive. Thisreport embodies
the results of much field work; containing much careful, honest labor
and establishing the author’s reputation as a microscopic lithologist,
which was afterwards strengthened by further studies under Professor
Rosenbusch. Of the results achieved by Dr. Hawes in the examination
of the building stones of the country little can be said, as it was a work
of great magnitude, requiring a great deal of care and exertion for its
proper inauguration, and he had barely gotten the investigation into
good working condition when he was obliged to abandon its prosecu-
tion, much against his will. Personally, Dr. Hawes wasa very pleasant
and genial man, and possessed a remarkable faculty of making warm
friends wherever he went. Although his immediate family relatives
were few in number and widely scattered, his death was mourned by
a large number who had been won to him by the sterling qualities of his
character, his truth, purity, unselfishness, and earnestness. The writer
had the pleasure of being one of his first students in blowpiping and
also of being associated with him in his work upon the building stones,
and is abundantly able to speak of the nobleness of his character, and
thus to bear testimony to the warm regard in which he held him.”

JOSEPH B. HERRON, a native of the State of Ohio, was born Au-
gust 7, 1839, at New Cumberland, Tuscarawas County. He was en-
gaged in the military service of his country at the period of the late
civil war, having enlisted in 1862, in the 98th Regiment of Ohio Volun-
teers, at the age of 23 years.

It was but a few months after his enrollment in the national defense
that he took part in the battle of Perryville, Ky., on which occasion he
received a bullet wound through his body, the ball entering the chest
on the left side, passing through his lung obliquely, narrowly escaping
the heart, and out at his back on the right side of the spinal column,
near the right shoulder blade. He unfortunately lay on the battle-field
from Wednesday until Saturday before receiving any medical attendance.
From the effects of this severe and dangerous wound he never fully
recovered. He was, however, restored to a moderate degree of health
and strength, and was able to attend to light duties.

In 1866, on the recommendation of General J. A. Garfield and Gen-
eral E. R. Eckley, he was appointed by Professor Henry janitor of the
Museum at the Smithsonian Institution, which position he held until
his death. He was always gentle and courteous in his deportment; and
though the injury to his lungs incapacitated him for exerting any
special activity, or apy great physical effort, he was always punctual
and attentive to his duties. He was a member of the Society of the
“ Army of the Cumberland,” and of the “Grand Army of the Republic.”
He was one of the Guards of Honor to the remains of President Garfield
while they lay at the Capitol in Washington, and accompanied the
funeral of the deceased President from this city to Cleveland. In these
exertions he probably overtasked his strength; for on returning to
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 39

this city from the state funeral, he went into a somewhat rapid decline,.
and though able to walk about his house to the last day of his life, he
died rather suddenly of pulmonary consumption at his residence in
Washington, on Sunday morning, April 9th at 7 o’clock, at the age of
' 43 years, after a service in this Institution of sixteen years.

One of the collaborators of the Institution, whose death we have to
deplore, is LEw1is H. MorGAN, author of a very original and elaborate
‘Smithsonian Contribution to Knowledge.” He was born in Aurora,
Cayuga County, New York, November 21, 1818, and died at Rochester,
N. Y., December 17, 1881. His first communication, published by the
Institution, was a short paper comprising “Suggestions relative to an
Ethnological Map of North America,” which appeared in the Smithson-
ian Report for 1861. Devoting himself to the study of anthropology,
he published various treatises in relation to the North American Indians.
His most important work is a discussion of ‘‘Systems of Consanguinity
and Affinity of the Human Family,” a large quarto of 616 pages, which
forms Volume XVII of the “Smithsonian Contributions,” published in
1869. His last work, entitled ‘‘ Houses and Homelife of the American
Aborigines,” forms Volume IV of the Contributions to American Eth-
nology.

It is also my painful duty to announce the death of another esteemed
collaborator and eminent man of science, Dr. HENRY DRAPER, of New
York, a son of the distinguished philosopher, Dr. John Draper, and a
member of the National Academy of Sciences. He was born in Vir-
‘ginia, May 7, 1837, and died in New York, November 20, 1882, at the
age of 45 years, in the prime of his mental activity and usefulness. He
distinguished himself by his original researches in astronomy, chem-
istry, and in celestial photography. In recognition of his valuable
work in connection with the transit of Venus in 1874, a gold medal
was struck in his honor, by order of Congress, at the Philadelphia mint.
Perhaps his most celebrated work was the difficult discovery, in 1877,
of oxygen in the sun.

Like most original investigators he was a skillful manipulator and
artisan. He prepared for the Institution in 1864 a memoir “On the
construction of a silvered glass telescope, fifteen and a half inches in
aperture, and its use in celestial photography,” which was published
in the “Smithsonian Contributions,” Vol. XIV. This work has been
very popular, and is recognized as the standard authority on the sub-
ject. The demand for it has been constant, and still continues.

In the death of JoSsEPH DUNCAN PUTNAM, president of the Davenport
Academy of Sciences, and one of the correspondents of the Institution,
December, 10, 1881, a great loss has been sustained by the workers in
natural history and anthropology, particularly in the western part of
our country. He was a valued correspondent of the Institution and
40 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

devoted himself untiringly and unselfishly to the advance of science
and the elevation of public sentiment in regard to abstract research.

In the death of Don FRANCISCO SUMICHRAST, of Tonali, Mexico, on
the 26th December, the Institution lost one of its oldest and most valued
correspondents outside of the United States.

This gentleman (a Swiss by birth) was occupied for many years in a
close and critical study of the natural history of Mexico; the stations
occupied by him being Orizaba, Tuchitan, Tonala, &c.; the Isthmus of
Tehuantepec having received special attention from him.

The numerous contributions of specimens of natural history of the
country, with notes upon their habits and characteristics, especially
birds, mammals, and reptiles, have given to the National Museum a
large material, and enabled the Institution to publish a number of ex-
tremely valuable memoirs. One of these was edited by Dr. Thomas M.
Brewer, and another by Mr. George N. Lawrence, of New York.

It is proper to state that all the assistance rendered by Professor
Sumichrast to the Institution was done without any compensation
whatever, and solely for the sake of securing a prompt and complete
knowledge of the natural history of his adopted country.

MISCELLANEOUS.

The Mercer Bequest.—Among various noteworthy items in connection
with the history of the Smithsonian Institution during the year 1882,
may be mentioned the circumstance of its being made a copartner in
the administration of a beneficiary trust, by Rev. Dr. Mercer, of New- -
port, R. I. That gentleman, dying on the 3d day of November, 1882,
left quite a large property, a portion of which was to be paid directly to
certain specified heirs, and the interest on the remainder to be given
to persons mentioned during their lifetime. After the decease of these
beneficiaries, the property was to be divided into three parts; of which
one-third was to be administered by a Beard, consisting of Harvard
College, Yale College, and the Smithsonian Institution; together with
three individuals mentioned, or their survivors, to establish scholar-
ships in some institution for the education of deserving and needy young
men. Although the money cannot be used directly by the Smithsonian
Institution, yet there seems to be no impropriety in accepting the trust
under the conditions named. It is not likely, however, that any occa-
sion for administering it will arise for probably a quarter of a century
to come.

In the history of the Institution thus far three bequests have been
made to it. The first was that of the residuary legateeship of the prop-
erty belonging to Mr. Wynne, who died in LBrooklyn, N. Y., the estate
being valued at the time at from $50,000 to $60,000. As, however, the
daughter married, and is, as far as known, still living, with a large
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. Al

family of children and grandchildren, the chances of an inheritance by
the Smithsonian Institution are practically none.

The next bequest was that of $1,000, made by Mr. James Hamilton,
of Carlisle; and the third and last, by Dr. Habel, amounting, with a
small addition made from the income of the Smithsonian Institution,
to $500; or $1,500, the two combined.

These two sums have been, in accordance with the law, paid into the
Treasury of the United States, as an addition to the principal.

The endowment of the Smithsonian Institution, at the present time,
amounts to $703,000, deposited in the United States Treasury, and it is
authorized to increase this amount to $1,000,000. A large part of the
expenses of the Institution consists in what may be called statical items,
such as salaries, repairs of building, &c.; and it is very evident that
the amount available for active operations is not at all represented by
the annual income of the fund. It is quite probable that the increase of
the endowment by 40 or 50 per cent. would permit the Institution nearly
to double the work accomplished, as it would require no increase of
force or incidental expenditure.

Naval Cadets.—In the American naval service, the cadets start with
four years’ study in the Naval Academy at Annapolis. They are then
sent to sea for two years, and do not obtain the rank of midshipman
until they have passed an examination at the end of this period, or of
six years after their entrance. They are then sent to sea again, or
placed on waiting orders.

About a year ago the Navy Department made inquiry of the Smith-
sonian Institution as to its willingness to receive six recently appointed
midshipmen, and assign them to some duty in the Institution or National
Museum that would enable them to take advantage of any opportuni-
ties they might have for natural-history research during their future
cruises, with the understanding that they were to be treated in every
way as regular employés of the Institution, and required to do regular
work.

The proposition was responded to favorably and the six cadets were
assigned respectively to the curators of Ichthyology, Marine Inverte-
brates, Ethnology, Paleontology, Geology, and Mineralogy. The expe-
riment, somewhat unexpectedly, has proved to be a very great success.
The young gentlemen devoted themselves earnestly to their work, and
became quite proficient in it.

A course of special instruction was given in regard to the taxidermy
of mammals and birds, which all the midshipmen attended with great
diligence, becoming quite expert in the preparation of skeletons and
in making excellent skins of mammals and birds.

The two assigned to ichthyology and marine invertebrates were de-
tailed for service on board the Fish Commission steamer “ Fish Hawk,”

where they had ample opportunity of becoming familiar with collecting
42 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

at sea; as also with the methods and appliances of deep-sea dredging, -

temperature observations, &c., all, of course, directly in the line of their
future vocation.

The other four accompanied one or the other of Professor Powell’s
parties into the Far West, and have had every opportunity for field work.

The results of this experiment were so satisfactory that six more mid-
shipmen have been detailed to the Institution, the first six to continue
another year, making the entire course one of two years.

The selections for this detail are made by the Navy Department afier
conference with the Superintendent of the Naval Academy, from among
those who, while pursuing their educational course, have shown most
interest in scientific matters.

The measure is extremely popular among the younger oflicers, although
of course it is decried by others, who consider it an innovation in the
established routine.

One special object of the experiment is to have, as a part of the regu-
lar force of the Navy, officers competent to do the scientific work for
which it has generally been necessary to employ civilians, as also on
any cruise to be able to utilize, to some extent at least, the opportunities
of research which constantly present themselves to the inquirer.

The following is an account of the work accomplished by these young
officers, now recognized by law as “ Ensigns”:

Of the class of ’79, six were ordered to the Institution early in Janu-
ary, 1882.

Ensign Rk. H. Miner chose ichthyology, made a summer cruise on
the “Fish Hawk,” resumed his studies in the fall, and was detached in
December and ordered to the Fish Commission steamer “ Albatross.”

i, HE. Hayden chose mineralogy, went on the U. 8S. Geological Sur-
vey to Nevada, and in the winter took up the study of fossil botany.

H. S. Chase chose mineralogy, went on a geological expedition to
Montana in the summer, and is now studying the same branch.

I. M. Garret chose geology, was in Montana in the summer, and
has resumed the same branch.

C. OC. Marsh chose ethnology, went on an ethnological expedition to
Moquis, Ariz., in the summer, and has since taken up fossil botany.

J. B. Blish chose marine invertebrates, went on the “ Fish Hawk”
in the summer, resumed the same branch in the fall, and was lately
detached at his own request and ordered to the ‘“‘ Jamestown.”

Of the class of ’80, six were detailed last fall.

H, G. Dresel is studying ichthyology.

J. B. Bernadou is engaged in the chemical laboratory in quantitative
and qualitative analysis and assaying.

A. A. Ackerman is studying mineralogy.

A. P. Niblack is studying ethnology.

EH. Wilkinson has chosen mineralogy.

s
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 43

W. H. Safford has chosen marine invertebrates.

Each one is engaged in the practical work of the respective depart-
ments in identifying, and classifying, as far as able, the collections
received from various sources.

Special Objects received.~Among the articles received during the year

may be mentioned a lock of Sir Walter Scott’s hair presented by Hon.
George Ainslee, Delegate in Congress from Idaho, whose father was a
neighbor and friend of Scott. The presentation was made through one
of our regents, Hon. S. 8. Cox.

A fine large specimen of agate, found off Keweenaw Point, in Lake
Michigan, near Manitou Island (which lies off the shores of Northern
Michigan) by S. H. Broughton, has been received by the Institution. It
was left to the Smithsonian Institution by bequest of the late Mrs.
Broughton, and was deposited by J. P. Newland, executor of Mrs.
Broughton’s will.

Set of United States Weights and Measures.—By act of Congress, March
3, 1881, the Secretary of the Treasury was directed to deliver to the
Smithsonian Institution a complete set of all the weights and measures
adopted as standard by the United States Government.

Naval Museum of Hygiene.—Congress having established a “ Naval
Museum of Hygiene” in connection with the Bureau of Medicine and
Surgery of the Navy Department, we have, in accordance with the prin-
ciple of co-operation adopted by the Institution, placed in its custody
a large exhibit of tile and terra-cotta pipe, for sewers and traps, and
other articles having sanitary relations.

Manuscript Declaration of Independence.—In the report for 1880 refer-
ence was made to the appointment of a commission, of which the Secre-
tary of the Institution was one, to consider the restoration of the faded
and now nearly illegible manuscript of the original Declaration of
Independence. The subject was referred to the National Academy of
Sciences, and a report was made by a special committee on the 17th
January, 1881. Nothing however, has been done in regard to the
matter.

Peale’s Portrait of Washington.—In the last report of the Institution
it was stated that a claim had been made by Mr. Titian R. Peale for a
portrait of Washington painted by his father, Charles Wilson Peale, on
deposit in this establishment. ‘his claim was originally made in 1871.
In 1873 the executive committee reported adversely to the claim, on
the ground that sufficient proof of ownership of the portrait had not
been presented.

During the last session of Congress, however, the matter was taken
up and investigated, and as the contesting claimants made a compromise
the portrait was finally purchased by the Library Committee of Con-
gress, and it is now the property of the United States.
44 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

NATIONAL MUSEUM.

The work of organization of the departments of the Museum has been
carried on vigorously during the past year. For a full account of all
its operations I would refer to the report of Mr. G. Brown Goode, the
assistant director, given in the appendix to this report. The fullness
of this account seems to render any résumé of the operations and present
condition of the Museum unnecessary here.

BUREAU OF ETHNOLOGY.

The appropriation made by Congress for the prosecution of ethnolog-
ical researches among the North American Indians, under the direction
of the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, was continued, and the
work remained in charge of Maj. J. W. Powell.

Field Work.—A large amount of field work was accomplished during
the year. The general excavation of mounds was placed in the charge
of Prof. Cyrus Thomas, with several assistants, through whose exertions
large collections were made, chiefly in the Mississippi Valley.

Dr. Edward Palmer has continued his explorations in Tennessee and
in Arkansas along the Mississippi, White, and Arkansas Rivers. A
short time was devoted to examination of the mounds and other works
in Southwestern Indiana.

Mr. F. S. Earle was engaged a short time in examining and locating
the mound groups of Southeast Missouri, and in opening mounds and
stone graves in Southern Illinois.

Mr. James D. Middleton, after Mr. Earle withdrew, continued the
work in Southern Illinois until stopped by the cold, when he was trans-
ferred to the South, and is now in Alabama.

Col. P. W. Norris entered upon the work in August, his field of labor
being the west bank of the Mississippi, from Dubuque, Iowa, to the Ar-
kansas line.

Hon. William M. Adams has been engaged to work up the mounds
in Madison County, Illinois, including the Cahokia group. He had
already completed the map of them and commenced opening them when
the co!d weather stopped him.

The result of operations so far may be summed up briefly as follows:

A very good and valuable collection, almost exclusively of mound
relics, consisting of pottery, stone implements, clay and stone images,
clay and stone pipes, plates of mica, gorgets, shell ornaments, engraved
shells, fragments of copper ornaments, fragments of wooden ornaments.
fragments of matting, pieces of burned clay which have been stamped,
an ancient Catholic medal of brass, a brass Chinese medal or coin (the
two latter are surface finds, the first found on a mound in Southern
illinois, the other on the site of an old French fort in Arkansas), quite
a number of crania and tibie. The collection of pottery is quite large
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 45

and includes representatives of all the types hitherto found in the
mounds except one of Ohio and one of Iowa.

The most important results appertain to the mounds and works them-
selves. The statement in the Smithsonian Report of 1872 in reference
to the Elephant mound is confirmed; the Seltzertown mound is proven
to be a myth; at least no sign of it could be found on examination.

The mounds and graves on the Wabash are found to be, to a con-
siderable extent, of Indian origin, and comparatively modern, as shown
by the articles of European manufacture found in them and by the
mode of burial.

Dr. Palmer had with him for a month an excellent artist who has
furnished a number of very valuable drawings of mounds and other
works. From these it is noticed that the mounds of Arkansas are in
many cases quite large and of the truncated pyramidal form, often ter-
raced. Artificial canals and lakes, such as described by Garcilasso and
the Gentleman of Elvas, are found in Northeastern Arkansas. Several
of the hard clay floors of the large houses of the aborigines, as described
by Le Tonti, Joutel, and others, have been found in the very section
visited by these travelers.

An inclosure of considerable size, including mounds and house sites,
precisely such, even to minute details, as that examined by Professor
Putnam, near Lebanon, Tenn., has been discovered in Southern Illi-
nois.

On the whole, the results, considering the time the parties have been
at work, are very satisfactory, and will have a very important bearing
on the question, Who were the mound builders, and what is the age
of the mounds?

Professor Thomas made an examination of some groups of mounds in
Southern Illinois and Southeastern Missouri.

Further successful explorations were conducted in New Mexico and
Arizona, under the immediate superintendence of Mr. James Steven-
son. Mr. Victor Mindeleff was in charge of a party which made ex-
tensive collections in the province of Tusayan, in Arizona, supple-
merting the large collections obtainel in previous years from twenty
or more pueblos in New Mexico. The collections obtained by these
expeditions have been deposited, with proper arrangement, in the Na-
tional Museum, and have been catalogued and described. The field
work, with special reference to linguistic research, has been performed
by Mr. James C. Pilling, who visited several missions along the St.
Lawrence and Ottawa Rivers, examining many manuscripts and pro-
curing numerous titles in connection with linguistic bibliography; by
Mrs. Erminnie A. Smith, who continued studies on the Iroquoian dialects
at St. Regis, Caughnanaga, &c.; by Mr. A. 8. Gatschet, who, among the
Shetimasha and other tribes in Louisiana, and by Rev. J. Owen Dorsey,
who, among the Kansas in Indian Territory, studied the respective lan-
guages.
46 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

The visitors to the three last-named regions also pursued other
branches of ethnic research, including social organization, traditions,
and customs; and Dr. W. J. Hoffman was engaged in investigations
in gesture language and pictographs among the several Indian tribes
of California and Western Nevada. The highly valued researches of
Mr. F. H. Cushing among the Zuni pueblos have been continued, sev-
eral months of the year, however, being occupied by his conducting a
delegation of six of those Indians to the East, a course which was im-
portant to his further success.

Publications.—Several publications have been issued by the Bureau
during the year, as follows:

The First Annual Report, embracing the fiscal year 1879-80, the con-
tents being: On the evolution of language, by J. W. Powell; Sketch of
the mythology of the North American Indians, by J. W. Powell; Wy-
andot government, by J. W. Powell; On limitations to the use of some
anthropologic data, by J. W. Powell; a further contribution to the
study of the mortuary customs of the North American Indians, by Dr.
H. C. Yarrow; Studies in Central American picture writing, by Prof.
EK. 8. Holden; Cessions of land by Indian tribes to the United States,
by C. ©. Royce; Sign language among North American Indians, by
Col. Garrick Mallery ; Catalogue of linguistic manuscripts in the library
of the Bureau of Ethnology, by J.C. Pilling ; Illustration of the method
of recording Indian languages, from the manuscripts of Messrs. J.
O. Dorsey, A. S. Gatschet, and S. R. Riggs.

Vol. IV, Contributions to North American Ethnology, containing:
Houses and house-life of the American aborigines, by Lewis H. Mor-
gan.

Vol. V, Contributions to North American Ethnology, containing:
Observations on cup-shaped and other lapidarian sculpture in the Old
World and in America, by Charles Rau; On prehistoric trephining and
cranial amulets, by Dr. Robert Fletcher, U.S. A.; A study of the man-
useript Troano, by Cyrus Thomas, with an introduction by Dr. D. G.
Brinton.

The papers prepared for the press and in whole or part printed dur-
ing the year, though not issued therein, are as follows:

To appear in the Second Annual Report: Myths of the Iroquois, by
Erminnie A. Smith; Animal carvings from the mounds of the Missis-
sippi Valley, by Henry W. Henshaw; Navajo silversmiths, by Dr.
Washington Matthews, U. 8.A.; Art in shell of the ancient Ameri-
cans, by William H. Holmes; Illustrated Catalogue of the collections
obtained from the Indians of New Mexico and Arizona in 1879, by
James Stevenson; Illustrated catalogue of the collections obtained
from the Indians of New Mexico in 1880, by James Stevenson.

About 500 pages were put in type of Mr. James C. Pilling’s Biblio-
graphy of American linguistics, containing many fac-similes of titles,
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. AT

syllabaries, &c. Part 1 of Vol. II of Contributions to North American
Ethnology, consisting of the Klamath-English dictionary, by Mr. A. 8.
Gatschet, with grammatical notes, was put in type; also over 500. pages
of Rev. J. Owen Dorsey’s (iegiha language, and 400 pages of Rev. S.
D. Riggs’ Grammar and dictionary of the Dakota language, which will
appear in Volumes 6 (in three parts) and 7 (in two parts) of the last-
mentioned series.

The papers prepared and intended for the Third Annual Report are
as follows: Introduction to the study of tribe government, by J. W.
Powell, as an introduction to the three following papers, viz: The Mus-
koki confederacy, by J. W. Powell; The government of the Omahas, by
Rev. J. Owen Dorsey; and the government of the Zunis, by I’. H. Cush-
ing; Introduction to the study of pictographs, by Col. Garrick Mallery ;
On certain Maya and Mexican MSS., by Prof. Cyrus Thomas; The art
of weaving among the Navajos, by Dr. Washington Matthews, U.S. A.;
An illustrated catalogue, by W. H. Holmes, of Mr. James Stevenson’s
collection from Zui and Walpi; and two other miscellaneous collec-
tions. Mr. Gatschet has also furnished a paper on the chief deities of
the American Indians.

Work not yet sufficiently complete for immediate publication has
been continued by Mr. Gatschet in the synonymy of the tribes of North
America; by him and Colonel Mallery, on an ethnographic chart of the
distribution of those tribes when first met by Europeans; by Mrs. Er-
minnie A. Smith, on a vocabulary and grammar of several Iroquoian dia-
lects; by Mr. H. W. Henshaw, on Indian industries; by Dr. H. C. Yar-
row in completion of his monograph on Mortuary Observances; and by
Prof. O. T. Mason, on Indian industries. Colonel Mallery has been en-
gaged in completing a monograph on sign language, and collecting the
materials for another on pictographs, these two closely connected subjects
comprising the direct visible expression of ideas, of which the signs are
transient and the pictographs the permanent expressions. Mr. Victor
Mindeleff prepared a relief model of the pueblo of Zuni, on the scale
of one (1) inch to five (5) feet, which is now in the National Museum
and is an object of great interest.

During the year many linguistic MSS. were received from various
collectors.

UNITED STATES GEOLOGICAL SURVEY.

In accordance with the practice of the Institution to supply an an-
nual account of the work of the United States Geological Survey, the
following brief summary, is given, furnished by the courtesy of its
Director, Maj. J. W. Powell:

Of the three phases which the field work of the Survey assumes,
the collection of representative rocks, minerals, and fossils is more
directly and manifestly contributory to the Institution and the Museum
48 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

under its care, than the topographic and stratigraphic work; but the
whole possesses interest as being part of a common endeavor to develop
and disseminate scientific truth.

Among the operations of the Survey that may be cited in this con-
nection are the following:

Field studies upon the much discussed Laramie group have been
prosecuted in Eastern Montana and Northeastern Dakota, covering
particularly a belt of about 80 miles along the Upper Missouri, and up-
wards of 100 miles adjacent to the Yellowstone, resulting in large col-
lections and important stratigraphic data. Similar combined strati-
graphie and paleontologic investigations have been in progress upon
the paleozoic series of the Eureka and Pine River districts of Nevada,
with a view to the more certain determination of the stratigraphy of
those important mining regions. The exploration of the interesting
ancient lake deposits of the Great Basin has been continued, the silts
of the ancient Lake Lahontan being the special subject of study. The
Permian and Carboniferous strata of Northern Arizona, in the vicinity
of Kanab, have been further examined, and important collections made
from them.

One of the more significant subjects of exploration was furnished by
the Grand Cajion group, an immense series of 12,000 feet thickness,
now demonstrated to lie between the upper Cambrian and the crystal-
line Archean rocks. Beside critical stratigraphic work, a large collec-
tion, involving a problematic organic form, was made, which yet awaits
exhaustive study. The investigations in the great mining districts of
Colorado and Nevada have been continued, with a view to supplement-
ing and perfecting the data previously gathered and the extension of the
work to new ground.

Investigations have likewise been in progress upon the great metal-
liferous series of the Lake Superior region, including the practical com-
pletion of the work upon the copper-bearing formation, as at present
planned, and the commencement of that upon the iron-bearing series.

In the interior basin, a special study of the great moraines that mark
the limit of the second glacial advance, and constitute datum lines
of great importance in glacial studies, has been in progress, and
about 3,000 miles of an essentially continuous morainic chain are now
mapped.

In addition to these more comprehensive studies, special collectors
have been in the field, gathering fossils from localities of exceptional
richness, or from critical and decisive horizons. Among these have
been the collections of Tertiary fossils, especially vertebrates, from
Oregon, and of Jurassic and Eocene remains from Wyoming. A special
effort has also been made to secure a full representative collection from
the marine Tertiary beds of the Lower Mississippi Valley.

Triangulation and topographic work, preparatory to geologic inves-
tigation, has been prosecuted in the quicksilver districts of New Alma-
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 49

den, New Idria, Knoxville, and Sulphur Bank, California, and also in
the northern part of that State. Similar work has been done in West-
ern New Mexico, in Southern Montana, in Central Colorado, in Western
and Northwestern Nevada, and in the Appalachian region. In the last
district, portions of Southwestern Virginia, Eastern Kentucky, Western
North Carolina, and Eastern Tennessee have been covered by primary
triangulation and topographic contours.

Some minor investigations have received attention, and an unusual
amount of office and laboratory work, upon previously gathered material
and in preporation for further studies, has been in progress.

UNITED STATES FISH COMMISSION.

General Object and Results.—Twelve years ago the United States
Fish Commission was established by law of Congress, and under a pro-
vision authorizing the President to select a Commissioner from among
the civilian employés of the Government, to serve without additional
pay, I was chosen and have continued to hold the position ever since.
The work, commencing on a very small scale in the year mentioned,
has broadened until it has now become the most important and ex-
tensive of its kind in the world; and it is hoped that the practical
results gained have vindicated the propriety of the initial experiment
as well as of continuing the work to such a period of time as the case
may require.

First as Assistant Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, and then
as its Secretary, it has been my duty to show to the Board of Regents
the occasion and reason for the occupation of a considerable portion of
my time, and thus to add not an uninteresting chapter to the report of
the Smithsonian Institution.

A detailed report of the doings of the Commission is published an-
nually by order of Congress; that of each year constituting a vol-
ume of nearly one thousand pages, with a considerable number of illus-
trations. In addition to this a Bulletin of the Fish Commission has
been authorized by Congress, to contain short articles of information
and instruction in reference to matters of fish culture and the fisheries.
This is restricted to five hundred pages annually; and this, with the
annual report, forms an annual contribution to practical science on the
part of the United States Government of nearly fifteen hundred pages.
For the more speedy dissemination of the information furnished in the
Bulletin, it is distributed to specialists in fish culture and the fisheries,
aud to the leading newspapers, so that the facts come fresh from the
press, and are largely reproduced in the serial literature of the day.
‘lwo volumes of the Bulletin (for 1881 and 1882) have now been pub-
lished.

The Smithsonian report for 1881 gave an account of what had been
done by the United States Fish Commission during that year, and the

H. Mis. 26——4
50 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

general facts for 1882 are not materially different, except to some extent
in regard to the scale of operations.

By act of Congress the work of the Commission is divided into two
subjects: (1) the investigation into the condition of the fishery and the
search for improvements in the methods and products of the fisheries;
and (2) the multiplication and dissemination of the more important
species; the first representing what is known as the inquiry branch of
the Commission, and the second that of propagation.

As the subject of the investigation of the fisheries was that first in-
trusted to the Commission by Congress in 1871—that of the multiplica-
tion of fish not being authorized until the succeeding year—it has gen-
erally been customary to take up the two divisions in that order. The
method of this inquiry has been to visit successively the principal
points along the coast of the United States where research can be pros-
ecuted, establishing stations for a season to study very carefully the
nature and distribution of the animal life, the character of the water as
to temperature, salinity, currents, &c., and the general facts in regard to
methods of prosecuting the fisheries. In this manner, in the course of
successive years, the minute details or conditions of the marine life of
the Atlantic coast, and to a considerable extent that of the Pacific and
the Gulf of Mexico, have been worked out either through the establish-
ment of the stations referred to or by sending special. experts of the
Commission for the purpose. The general results of these investigations
are to be found partly in the published reports of the Commission,
partly in those still in press, and to a very large degree in the special
reports prepared by the Commission for the census of 1880. A quarto
report, ordered by Congress and now in press, will contain a large
amonnt of original information in regard to the natural history and con-
dition of the fishes and useful invertebrates of the ocean, lakes, and
rivers, illustrated by numerous well-executed figures.

The approximate completion of the inshore research has allowed the
Commission to undertake more fully an examination of the deep seas;
anda systematic survey is now being made of the grounds where fish-
ermen have hitherto plied their vocation, with a view of determining
the extent and condition of the fishing banks, and also to find out what
additional localities heretofore undiscovered yet remain to reward the
labors of the “‘toilers of the sea.” Much success has already been experi-
enced in this latter respect, and new and extensive ranges for the prose-
cution of their vocation bave been opened up. It is believed, however,
that much yet remains to be done, and it is hoped that in succeeding
years areas of important fishing ground of great extent will be brought
to light, especially in the South Atlantic and the Gulf of Mexico.

For the better prosecution of this latter research Congress authorized
the construction of a first-class sea-going vessel, and in March, 1882,
the contract was awarded to Messrs. Pusey & Jones, of Wilmington,
Del., for an iron vessel 200 feet long on the water line, 27 feet beam, and
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 51

of about 1,000 tons of displacement. Lieut. Z. L. Tanner, U.S. N., at
the time in charge of the steamer “ Fish Hawk,” was assigned to the duty
of the superintendence of its construction, and subsequently to its com-
mand. The vessel was actually completed in December, 1882, and
started on its trial trip to Washington on the last day of the year, ar-
riving in Washington a few days later. This trip, while bringing to
light some points in which alterations and improvements were neces-
sary, presented a very remarkable success in all essential respects, the
boat being extremely stable in the sea-way and promising to answer
admirably the purpose of her construction.

After receiving in Wilmington the necessary alterations the vessel
returned to the Washington navy-yard, and is now being fitted out for
her first trip off the Middle Atlantic coast. It is proposed to devote the
early spring to the special investigation of the movements and habits
of the mackerel and menhaden, with a view of facilitating the search
for these fish on the part of the many fishing vessels of the Atlantic
coast.

The establishments of the Commission, summer by summer, at differ-
ent points on the coast have been already referred to. As this inshore
survey may be considered as practically completed, it was thought desir-
able to establish a permanent station at some convenient point on the
coast, from which the vessels of the Commission could extend their re-
searches to distant points of the ocean, and to which they could return
for the delivery of their collections and material, and for a permanent
harbor. Woed’s Holl, on the south coast of Massachusetts, was chosen
for this purpose, as it offera a convenient center at which to carry on the
work of hatching the sea fish, such as the codfish, the mackerel, hali-
but, and other species on a large scale. For this purpese a point on the
Great Harbor was selected, on which it is proposed to construct the neces-
sary buildings. There being no appropriation by Congress available
for the purpose, liberal friends of science, desirous of seeing the Com-
mission established at Wood’s Holl, contributed the necessary funds
to purchase the land and presented it to the United States; and in ad-
dition to this a large tract of ground forming a part of the water line
was presented by Mr. Joseph 8S. Fay, so that the control of the Commis-
sion was assured over all parts of the shore of the Great Harbor where
there was any danger of erection of buildings or factories likely to emit
poisonous refuse inimical to the work of the Commission. It is hoped
that the next report will chronicle the successful occupation of this
station for the purpose in question.

By the courtesy of the Light-House Board, the laboratory buildings on
the light-house wharf at Wood’s Holl were made use of, as in previous
years; and the “Fish Hawk,” under command of Captain Tanner,
made numerous visits to the adjacent off-shores, bringing in many inter-
esting collections. The most noteworthy result was the ascertaining of
what appeared to be the entire destruction of the tile fish (1eferred to
52 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

in the last report) over a large part of its northern range; this in con.
sequence, as is supposed, of the killing of the fish by cold currents ex-
tending beyond their usual limitations. This suspected destruction was
suggested by the discovery of millions of these fish found dead and
floating out in mid-ocean without any apparent indication of disease.

The usual scientific research was continued during the summer at
this station, and, as heretofore, large numbers of duplicate specimens of
natural history were collected for distribution to the colleges and acad-
emies throughout the country. Of these, two hundred sets are in prepa-
ration and will be distributed to that number of applicants. This policy
on the part of the Commission and the Smithsonian Institution is thor-
oughly appreciated by friends of education throughout the country as
farnishing material for instruction in the way of objects themselves, and
making it unnecessary to depend upon imperfect figures and descriptions.

The work of the Commission in the way of propagation of food-fishes
was continued in 1882 on a scale larger than that of previous years.
The general work of the season may be considered as commencing with
the shad in April, ar 1 was carried on for the most part with the two
stations of Washington and Havre de Grace as centers. On the Poto
mac River the practice of the Commission is either to keep men perma-
nently stationed at the different landings or to send them every day to
attend to the haulings of the seines, so that the ripe fish may be taken
as they are brought in, the eggs stripped from them and immediately
fertilized by the milt from accompanying males. The eggs are then
either transferred to the ‘‘ Fish Hawk,” as a floating station, or sent
to the hatching station at the navy-yard, or to the central station in
Washington, heretofore known as the Armory.

Near the close of the season of shad-hatching on the Potomac the
“Fish Hawk” was sent to the Susquehanna River at Havre de Grace,
to renew her work. What is known as Battery Station, the permanent
establishment of the Commission, about five miles below Havre de
Grace, was also in full operation. Here the experiment was first made
by the Commission of catching its own shad by hauling @ seine from
Battery Island. The result was very satisfactory and gives much prom-
ise for the future. The experiment was also initiated of placing partly
unripe fish in a pond on the island until the eggs were sufficiently ma-
tured to permit their being stripped.

The young shad as taken at the stations mentioned were forwarded
by the special cars of the Commission to different parts of the United
States and were planted in many rivers which it is hoped will in time
become the seat of important fisheries, this distribution including both
the fresh-water herring and shad. The total number of shad taken and
distributed during the season amounted to over 30,000,000. This added
to nearly 170,000,000 hatched and distributed in previous years repre-
sents a very important aggregate,—about 200,000,000 of shad planted
in suitable waters.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 53

A formal request from a large number of the members of the legis-
lature of New York, made through the Hon. Frank Hiscock, for the ser-
vice of the Fish Commission in adding to the supply of shad in the
Hudson River, was responded to by sending an entire car-load of the
young fish and depositing them in the vicinity of Albany.

Next in importance to shad, and perhaps of even greater promise for
the future is the carp, the distribution of which has continued on a
very large scale. It has seemed almost impossible to supply the demand,
coming as it does, from every county of every State in the Union. All
the resources of the Commission are taxed from the first of October
until the first of April or even May in sending out the fish in response
to requests, and very many thousands of ponds are now stocked with
this fish. Its distribution is made partly by express, partly by sending
a certain number in charge of special messengers ; but the most impor-
tant mode is by shipment in cars especially constructed for the Commis-
sion for the purpose. In these as many as 20,000 carp can be loaded
at a time and carried with perfect safety even is far as California and
Western Texas, the fish being delivered to applicants who have been
authorized to apply for them. So far it has been impossible to meet
the demand, and it will probably be many years before the carp are
so thoroughly introduced as to render further action of the Commis-
sion unnecessary. The calls are loud, and equally strong from Wash-
ington Territory, Texas, and Florida as they are from points much nearer
home. It is quite safe to say that more than 15,000 ponds have been con-
structed in the United States especially for the purpose of receiving the
fish bred by the Commission. The promise of the carp as an article of
food is very great, and the fish is considered entitled to rank among the
domesticated animals and to be capable of as profitable cultivation as
poultry or pigs, feeding as it does on the same vegetable matters and
making a considerably larger amount of flesh with the same materials.

The operations in connection with the California salmon have not
been carried on, on as large a scale as usual, in view of the fact that the
fish does not seem adapted to the Eastern waters. A few have been
distributed east of the Rocky Mountains, but the experiment has proved
less satisfactory than had been expected. The several millions placed
every year in the Sacramento River have, however, maintained the
abundance in that stream to a remarkable degree; and it is believed
that at no time since the occupation of the country by the Americans
has the yield been greater.

The work with the Penobscot salmon has continued to be very satis-
factory. A large number of fish hatched out have been planted for the
most part in the streams of Maine, New Hampshire, Vermont, Massa-
chusetts, Connecticut, New York, and Pennsylvania, in waters believed
to be best adapted to them. The supply of the salmon in the rivers of
Maine, formerly almost exhausted, has greatly increased and is rapidly
assuming very large proportions. The other States, less adapted, as

-
54 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

they are, to the growth of the fish, will doubtless yield a fair average
or result. The land-locked salmon—a favorite variety of fish—is also
bred in large numbers and distributed for the most part in lakes in the
States mentioned, as also in Minnesota, Michigan, lowa, and other por-
tions of the West.

The economical importance of the whitefish of the Great Lakes is
fully recognized by the Commission, and the measures begun a few
years ago to multiply it have been largely expanded during the year.

The State of Michigan has been the seat of operations in this direc-
tion, and the work is in charge of Frank N. Clark, at Northville, Mich.
To this station for several years the eggs collected in the adjacent lakes
have been brought, and developed to a degree—either hatched out
entirely or prepared for shipment to other points. During 1882 a second
station was established at Alpena, Mich., and about 70,000,000 of eggs
collected in the two establishments. These are now in process of hatch-
ing, and while a considerable number will be distributed to various
parts of the United States, by far the greater portion will be planted in
Lakes Michigan, Huron, Erie, and Ontario, where they cannot but ex-
ercise a material influence upon the supply.

The California trout has also received the attention of the Commission.
The idea of multiplying it in the East was first suggested by Mr. Seth
Green, of the New York commission, who several years ago took a
number of the fish to Caledonia Spring, from California, and has since
been distributing them in behalf of the State. As the benefits of this
work were confined to the State of New York, it was thought best for the
Commission to extend them, and several years ago a station was estab-
lished on the McCloud River, a few miles from the California salmon
station, and sub-stations were also started in connection with the estab-
lishment of Mr. Clark at Northville, and at the Virginia State hatchery
at Wytheville. By this means of muitiplication it is expected that large
numbers of the eggs and young fish will in time be available for dis-
tribution.

The special merits of the California trout consist in its rapid growth
and in its ability to resist extremes of temperature which would be fatal
to the ordinary brook trout.

Very little beyond experimental work was done with the codfish in
1882. At the suggestion of Mr. E.G. Blackford, of New York, an ettort
was made to utilize the living spawn of cod brought into the Fulton
Market during the late autumn and winter; but the impurity of the
water of East River was such as to render it impossible to carry on the
work on a large and successful scale. A considerable number of eggs,
however, were taken and fertilized, and the fish in large part planted in
the Chesapeake Bay as an experiment in stocking that body of water.
As soon as the hatching station at Wood’s Holl is completed, it is pro-
posed to 1esume this work on a very extensive scale by catching the
nearly ripe fish and placing them in basins at the station until they are
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 55

mature, when the eggs will be stripped and hatched in the exveption-
ally pure water of the harbor.

As in previous seasons, the Commission has to acknowledge the uni-
versal favor with which it has met on the part of presidents, managers,
and superintendents of railways and steamboats, the various branches
of the Government and individuals generally. The formal acknowledg-
ments and details of this courtesy will be found in the report of the Com-
mission. The usual experiments have also been made of the transmis-
sion of the eggs of salmon, whitefish, and other species of fish to various
portions of Europe, in return for which we have received specimens of
Salmonide as well as some of the later and improved varieties of Ger-
man carp.

Bulletin of the Fish Commission.—During the last session of Congress
an act was passed (approved February 14, 1881) instructing the Public
Printer to print and stereotype, from time to time, the regular number
of 1,900 copies of any matter furnished him by the United States Com-
missioner of Fish and Fisheries, relative to new observations, discover-
ies, and applications connected with fish-culture and the fisheries, to be
capable of being distributed in parts, and the whole to form an annual
volume or bulletin not exceeding 500 pages. The edition of this annual
work is to consist of 5,000 copies, of which 2,500 are for the use of the
House of Representatives, 1,000 for the use of the Senate, and 1,500 for
the use of the Commissioner.

Fishery Census of 1880.—The reports of 1880 and 1881 contain details
in regard to the co-operation between the United States Fish Commission
and the Census of 1880, under charge of Superintendent Francis A.
Walker, in collecting the statistics and history of the fisheries of the
United States in past years up to the present time. The result has been
the accumulation of a large mass of important information of very
great value.

The report of 1881 gives an account of the special work of the gen-
tlemen employed for this purpose, and during the year 1882 the reports
mentioned below were published, leaving quite a number still to appear
as among the series of special reports of the Census.

A number of other reports on fishes, of much interest but of less
relationship to the work of the Census, were presented to Congress by
the Commission, and their publication ordered in a series of quarto
volumes. Of these the first is well advanced and will be out in the
course of the year 1883. It is more particularly occupied by an ac-
count of the economical and natural history of the food-tishes and
invertebrates of the country, with the necessary illustrations.

Another of these reports will include figures and descriptions of all
the obsolete as well as more modern forms of apparatus for the pursuit,
capture, and utilization of the inhabitants of the waters, together with
a very minute account of the apparatus of the whaler.
56 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

The great London International Fisheries Exposition.—The success of
the Berlin Fishery Exhibition in 1880, and those of Norwich in 1881
and Edinburgh in 1882, induced a number of gentlemen in England to
propose an exhibition in London in 1883, that should far surpass any of
its predecessors. The necessary arrangements were made, and invita-
tions extended to the United States to participate. This was favorably
responded to by an enactment of Congress appropriating $50,000 for the
purpose, and requiring the United States Commissioner of Fish and Fish-
eries, under the direction of the Secretary of State, to take the necessary
measures toward participation by the United States in the display in
question. The work of preparation was placed in the hands of Mr. G.
Brown Goode, who, with the help of the gentlemen who have been trained
for the work by the Census investigations, and of the assistants in the
National Museum, and the United States Fish Commission, made every
possible effort to secure a satisfactory competition on the part of the
United States. Much important material was already on hand, partly
gathered for the Fisheries Exhibition at Philadelphia in 1876, partly
for that of Berlin in 1880, and to a considerable extent representing
the general and incidental gatherings of the Fish Commission.

The exhibition in question will open early in May, 1883, and it is
hoped that the report of the result will be as satisfactory to the pride
of every American as was that of the Exhibition at Berlin already re-
ferred to.

Respectfully submitted,
SPENCER F. BAIRD,
Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution.
APPENDIX TO THE SECRETARY’S REPORT.

CORRESPONDENCE ON ASTRONOMICAL ANNOUNCEMENTS.

In presenting a portion of the correspondence of the Institution with
leading astronomers, relative to methods suggested for rendering the
telegraphic announcement of astronomical discoveries as free from am-
biguity as possible, it seems proper to preface these extracts with a
brief notice of the form previously adopted by European observatories
in communicating such information between themselves. The Smith-
sonian system of transatlantic or cable telegraphy, introduced in 1873,
may be regarded as essentially an extension of this earlier and more
local practice. In acknowledgment of the active zeal and assistance of
Dr. C. H. F. Peters, of the Clinton Observatory, in establishing the
Smithsonian enterprise, much deference has been paid to his judgment
in all doubtful questions.

Letter from Prof. F. Karlinski, director of tie observatory in Cracow,
November 23, 1865.

(Published in the Astronomische Nachrichten, Vol. 65, cols. 31, 32.)

It will perhaps not be superfluous if some form should be given in the
Astronomische Nachrichten, in which we can unite in the telegraphic
announcement of astronomical observations, in order that the informa-
tion may be condensed and still be perfectly and generally intelligible.
Our signs ° ‘ ”, as well as h. m. s., can, of course, not be telegraphed,
but to write them out in full makes the dispatch too long. The con-
version of the times of observation as expressed in hours, minutes, sec-
onds, into decimal parts of the day, as well as the expression of right
ascension and declination in degrees and decimals, can easily lead to
errors, and further necessitates a reconversion after the reception of the
dispatch. To me it seems that it would be simplest if we agree to give
not only the mean local time of observation but also the right ascension
and declination by means of 7 or 8 places of figures, of which the first
two indicate the number of the hours or degrees of declination, the next
two the number of minutes, the next two the number of seconds, and
the remaining figure the number of tenths of a second.

The words “right ascension” and “declination” may be entirely
omitted and replaced by “northerly,” southerly.”

Thus, for example:

“Altona Sternwarte 85 November 22 Krakau 0604597 scheinbar
00430620 nordlich 0247240 Karlinski” would be translated as follows:

57
58 CORRESPONDENCE ON ASTRONOMICAL ANNOUNCEMENTS.

“November 22d, 6" 4™ 59.7° Cracow mean time. Minor planet No. 85.
Apparent right ascension 0 43™ 6.208%. Apparent declination +2° 477
D402 .

And this would be entirely expressed in twelve words. Thus, there
would remain still eight words for other items, such as the daily motion,
brightness, &c., if the whole dispatch is to be kept within twenty words.

However, I leave the perfecting of this form entirely to your views,
without desiring to push any project of my own.

Notification by the Imperial Academy of Vienna, December 6, 1869.
(Published in the Astronomische Nachrichten, No. 1785, col. 142.)

The telegrams by which the Imperial Academy announces the dis-
coyery of anew comet to the various observatories will hereafter be
written in an abbreviated form and in general according to the proposi-
tion of Professor Karlinski.

The dispatch will contain: first, the word comet then the name of the
discoverer ; next the date will be given and then the local mean time of
the position in four consecutive figures, of which the first two indicate
the hour and the last two the minute, so that the missing tens for the hour
as well as for the minutes will be indicated by zeros. Then the place
of the discovery will be given, followed by the right ascension in arc, ex-
pressed by means of five figures, of which three indicate the degrees
and the next two the minutes, while the missing tens and hundreds
will be, as before, shown by the zeros.

Then follows an interval, and, after it, the polar distance represented in
five figures, of which three indicate the degrees and the last two the
minutes, and in which again all the missing figures have their places
filled by zeros. The motion, to be finally given, is always understood
to be daily motion in minutes of are, first the motion in right ascension
and next that in declination, each to be preceded by the sign or word
plus or minus.

The conclusion of the dispatch is to be formed of some words that
refer to the external appearance of the celestial body. If, still, an addi-
tional figure follows them, this will describe the diameter of the comet
in minutes of are.

The dispatch will be signed “ Akademie.” For example, the following
telegram from the Academy :

Comet Tempel three November nought nine nought nine nought
nought Marseilles three four one nought five. Nought seven five four
four bewegung plus six minus twenty four helle kern five Akademie”
would be translated as follows:

‘Comet discovered by Tempel. On the 3d November, at 9" 0™ Mar-
seilles meantime, the position is right ascension 341° 5’ and north polar
distance 75° 44’, The daily motion is +6/ in right ascension and —24/
in polar distance. Bright nucleus. Diameter of the comet, 5’.

(Signed) IMPERIAL ACADEMY of VIENNA.”
CORRESPONDENCE ON ASTRONOMICAL ANNOUNCEMENTS, 59

Letter from the Royal Observatory, Greenwich, October 15, 1879, to the
Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution.

Str: In the telegrams announcing the discovery of comets and minor
planets, for which we have to thank you, the Astronomer Royal has
frequently found a difficulty as to the date of discovery and the date
to which the position given refers. The former is of less importance, but
the uncertainty as to the latter has frequently caused much delay in
picking up a quick moving body such as a comet. :

The Astronomer Royal would therefore suggest that the day of the
month, and Washington mean time, to which the position given refers,
should be in every case inserted just before the R. A. and Dee. (the
magnitude being put at the end of the telegram to avoid confusion).

Thus the telegram just received would run (supposing the position of
the planet to be given for Oct. 13, 14" Washington mean time): “ Planet
Peters Clinton thirteenth fourteen hours one nought north one twenty
motion five south eleventh.”

The Astronomer Royal trusts that you will not find any difficulty in
making this small addition, which will greatly increase the value of the

announcements.
I am, sir, &e.,
W. H. M. CHRISTIE.

Letter from the Smithsonian Institution to Dr. C. H. F. Peters (Clinton,
N. Y.), November 4, 1879.

DEAR Sir: The Astronomer Royal of England asks that hereafter,
jn astronomical announcements, the hour of discovery in Washington
time be given.

The Naval Observatory here requests that local time of discovery be
stated, and that seconds of right ascension be always given.

What would you advise us to instruct observatories in these particu-

lars?
Very truly, yours,

S. F. BAIRD.

Letter from the Litchfield Observatory of Hamilton College (Clinton, N
Y.), November 8, 1879, to the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution.

DEAR Sir: In reply to yours of 4th inst., regarding the demands of
observatories for certain changes in the dispatches of planet discoveries,
I take the liberty to make the following remarks. These remarks are, in
substance, the same I wrote a short time ago to Prof. Tietjen, of the
Berlin Observatory, who proposed as a desideratum similar alterations.

First, as to that the hour of discovery be stated, by which I suppose
the time for the position communicated is meant, the answer is that such
is done and has been done always in our dispatches. It is included in
the way prescribed (but overlooked or forgotten) in the programme that.
was issued at the time by the Smithsonian Institution (Smith. Miscel.
60 CORRESPONDENCE ON ASTRONOMICAL ANNOUNCEMENTS.

ColV’hs, 263). There Art. IV states distinctly: ‘“‘The right ascension
and declination in the dispatch will be understood to give the position
(by proper motion approximately reduced) for the midnight following the
date of the dispatch, Washington time for American discoveries, Green-
wich time for European.”

If this be borne in mind, it seems unnecessary to burden the dispatch
by additional figures, indicating a local time.

Still further, it seems unnecessary to add the daily motion in right
ascension. This, for the minor planets between Mars and Jupiter in
opposition, we know is always negative—the planets are retrograde—
and the numerical value of it will be in the neighborhood of 45* or 50°.
Taking into account the distance from the equator, the position of the
ecliptic, and the motion in declination, a little reflection will easily
decide whether to assume a smaller or a larger value sufficiently near
for knowing the run in a day or two.

The request of giving with the right ascension also the second of time
assumes that the discoverer himself knows it, that he has followed up
the planet for at least 24 hours, and hence the motion has become known
to him with accuracy. But this is usually not the case, as on the other
hand it is desirable that the discoverer make the announcement im-
mediately after the first night. The daily motion, consequently, is con-
cluded from single comparisons extending perhaps over an _ hour,
whereby the unavoidable errors are multiplied by a factor greater than
24. The seconds added to the right ascension, therefore, would be only
illusory.

When the nearest full minute is given, so that the uncertainty is 4
minute, this seems indeed also sufficient for recognizing the planet. It
will be among the stars that are in a field of 15’, and by studying with a
little patience the configuration of these stars, the one searched for will
soon betray itself by its change of place. The apparent motion in right
ascension, in most cases, is far surpassing that in declination, so that
the inconsistency in giving the declination to a minute of arc and the
right ascension to a minute of time only is not so great as might seem.
Nevertheless, if found desirable, it is possible to narrow the limits of
uncertainty in the right ascension to one-sixth by the addition of only
one word more in the dispatch, giving the nearest round tenth number
of seconds. And this is the only alteration I should be willing to rec-
ommend in the form of the dispatch.

To resume, I suggest, then:

1. The local time (or its equivalent) is to be presented and looked for
as before, in conformity with Art. IV of the Smithsonian programme.

2. To give the daily motion in right ascension seems superfluous.

3. After the minute of right ascension to be inserted one of the words,
“ten,” “twenty,” “thirty,” ‘‘ forty,” or “ fifty,” indicating the round tenth
of seconds (if no word follows, the second is understood to be zero).
CORRESPONDENCE ON ASTRONOMICAL ANNOUNCEMENTS. 61

Thus, taking the example in the Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections
referred to, it might read:

“ Planet twenty three thirty five ten north, &c.,” 7. ¢., in 235 35™ 108
of right ascension, &c.”

Besides the convenience to observers, also consideration ought to be
had to the telegraph companies that convey messages free of charge.
The first application to the Atlantic Cable Company and which was
granted, was made, I remember, for about 10 words in each dispatch
and for 12 dispatches as a maximum in the year. When, of late, both
of these figures usually have been transgressed we owe the more thanks

to the liberality of the company silently acquiescing. But this should be

the more reason to use the privilege granted with modesty ; (Professor
Tietjen proposed even that a second dispatch after 3 or 4 days follow the
first;) and I believe the form stated in the Smithsonian programme (with
the slight modification now suggested above) as precise out as complete
as can be desired.

Permit me, dear sir, to take this occasion for reiterating the assurance
of the gratitude the astronomical world bears towards the Smithsonian
Institution for the acceleration of intercourse —and believe me, &c., &e.,

OMH. B.S PSTERS:

Letter from the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, November 26,
1879, to Mr. W. H. M. CHRISTIE of the Royal Observatory, Greenwich.

DEAR Sir: In answer to your esteemed favor of October 15 we beg
to say that by the original programme adopted by telegraphic announce-
ments of astronomical discoveries, the position given in the dispatch is
understood to be that for the midnight following the date, Washington
time for American and Greenwich for European discoveries. This
seemed to us to render it unnecessary to state local time of discovery.
We however referred the matter to Professor Peters, who takes the
same view-as ourselves.

Very respectfully,
S. F. Barrp.

Letter from the Royal Observatory, Greenwich, December 22, 1879, to the
Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution.

Str: With reference to your letter of November 26 respecting tele-
graphic announcements of discoveries the Astronomer Royal requests
me to say that there seems to have been a little misapprehension as to
what he desired.

Our difficulty has arisen from the frequent absence of any data what-
ever on the telegram, and even where this is given from an ambiguity
as to whether civil or astronomical reckoning is intended. (This am-
biguity occurred in the last two telegrams respecting comets discovered
by Lewis Swift—in the last the position given appears to have referred
62 CORRESPONDENCE ON ASTRONOMICAL ANNOUNCEMENTS.

to the date of discovery instead of to the midnight following the date
of the dispatch five days later.)

If you could kindly give the date of the dispatch our difficulty would
be entirely removed, it being understood, that the convention that the
position given should refer to the following Washington midnight will
be carried out in the case of comets as well as of minor planets.

As mentioned in my former letter, the date of discovery is of less im-
portance and may well be omitted.

W. H. M. CHRISTIE.

Letter from the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, December 3, 1879,
to Lord LinpDsAy, Dun Echt Observatory, Aberdeen, Scotland.

DEAR Sir: I am in receipt of your circular of the Ist of November,
asking for the transmission of information respecting the occurrence of
comets and other astronomical phenomena; and I beg to inquire whether
the present arrangements, established some years ago by my predecessor,
Professor Henry, do not answer your purpose. These consisted in an
arrangement with the inland and ocean telegraph companies, by which
all discoveries of this kind made in America were transmitted by the
Smithsonian Institution to certain observatories in Europe, from which
it was supposed they would be forwarded to the more important ob-
servatories within their respective districts.

In return, these same observatories transmit similar information to
Washington, which is then sent to a specified list of establishments
here and also published in the telegraphic dispatches of all the daily
papers in the country.

As you will observe, the observatory at Greenwich receives these dis-
patchesfrom Washington for Great Britain, and I would suggest that
arrangements be made with the Astronomer Royal for immediate trans-
mission of all such information to your observatory.

Everything noteworthy in the line of astronomical discovery is at
once sent to him.

If you prefer to have a dispatch direct to Aberdeen, I will see what
can be done in regard to it, although the telegraph companies, which
perform this service gratuitously, only allow us one station in each
country.

Very respectfully,
SPENCER F. BAtrRD.

Letter from the Observatory, Dun Echt, Aberdeen, December, 1579, to the
Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution.

DEAR Sir: I am instracted by Lord Lindsay to thank you for your
letter and inclosure of December 3, in reply to the Dun Echt circular
of November 1, asking for information respecting the occurrence of
comets, &c.
CORRESPONDENCE ON ASTRONOMICAL ANNOUNCEMENTS. 63

Referring to your letter his lordship wishes me to explain that the
scheme which he is endeavoring to carry out is the collection of notices
of discoveries of the character indicated from the whole world, in order
to distribute them directly amongst observers in the British Islands.
In doing so it is intended to supply information to every owner of a
telescope in these islands who communicates an address for the purpose,
more especially to all those amateurs who may not be in communication
with a government observatory. I may add that, in this special en-
deavor to aid the owners of small observatories, Lord Lindsay pub-
lished and distributed the summary of Struve’s Mensur Micrometrice,
a work which has already greatly facilitated the observation of double
stars, nor has it been found useless in observatories of the first rank.
In proof of this, it may be mentioned that it served as a working list
for the admirable labors of Professor Pickering and his adjuncts at
Harvard College in sidereal photometry.

Irom the papers you inclose it is evident that the arrangements of
the Smithsonian Institution guarantee the certain intereommunication
of astronomical discoveries between the United States and five European
government observatories. This still leaves a large field unoccupied,
nor does it seem to provide at all (at least in Europe) for the distribu-
tion of information from the transmitting end. I would point out, for
example, that the news of Schmidt’s new star in the Swan was but very
imperfectly distributed in Europe. Although Dr. Schmidt telegraphed
to Herr y. Littrow, at Vienna, within three hours of the discovery on
November 24, 1876 (see Astronomische Nachrichten No. 2113), we first
learned of the star’s existence from a daily paper at the close of Decem-
ber. The Astronomische Nachrichten published the first account on De-
cember 23, and, in fact, the earliest observation possible at Dun Echt
was on January 2, 1877. In Astronomische Nachrichten No. 2115 Dr.
Vogel says that the first news reached him at Berlin on December 3.

From this it would seem that the European part of the Smithsonian
scheme is not at present adapted for the distribution of news on this
side of the Atlantic, and hence it arose that Lord Lindsay was not aware
that the telegrams of the Smithsonian Institution embraced more than
the discoveries of minor planets, with a partial recognition of other and
possibly more generally interesting phenomena, or that they were in-
tended for general distribution.

Apart from this, the information reaches the bulk of observers in these
islands through occasional notes in the public journals, but very rarely
in their telegraphic summaries. Nor are such notes always accepted;
e. g., itis well known that the “Times” declined all the earlier com-
munications respecting the new star in the Crown. ~

These reasons led Lord Lindsay to devise a plan for distributing intel-
ligence directly amongst British observers by posted circular, leaving it
to corporations or individuals to do the same in other countries if the
plan was found worthy of extension. Already the plan has been prom-
64 CORRESPONDENCE ON ASTRONOMICAL ANNOUNCEMENTS.

ised the aid of astronomers in many countries, and a similar and co-
operating scheme is starting in France. Stress is laid on the distribution
of information by special circular (or telegram, if particularly desired),
as it is found impossible to rely on the daily papers.

Trusting that these explanations will show that the Dun Echt scheme
is in no way calculated to take up ground already occupied by the
Smithsonian Institution. Iam,

Very respectfully,
RALPH COPELAND,
Astronomer at Dun Echt.

Letter from the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, January 14, 1880,
to Prof. C. H. F. PETERS, Clinton, \N. Y.

DEAR Sir: In consequence of the difficulty experienced by many
astronomers in interpreting telegraphic announcements of astronomical
discoveries, we desire to publish in the forthcoming report of this Insti-
tution a circular on this subject, which shall prevent ambiguity aud
m&understanding in the future.

We therefore inclose a copy of the original circular, as prepared by
yourself, and request that you will insert therein such additions, cor-
rections, and explanations as experience has shown to be necessary.

We also send a letter in the same connection, from the Royal Obser-
vatory, Greenwich, which we beg you will return with suggestions for
its proper answer.

Yours very truly,
S. F. Barr.

Letter from the Litchfield Observatory of Hamil on College, Clinton, N. Y.,
January 21, 1880, /o the Smithsonian Institution.

DEAR Sir: I have, as you requested, considered the different points of
the programme for telegraphic dispatches, and, in the suggestions which
I submit onthe annexed pages as a substitute for pp. 7 and following, I be-
lieve that the wishes expressed by various astronomers, especially those
of Greenwich, are fully embedied. The closing sentence I added in re-
memberirg the inaccuracy of Mr. Swift, by which both assistant Paul of
the Washington Observatory and myself lost a whole night in fruitless
searches for that comet. However, I beg you to strike out or correct as
you please.

If, in your answer to Mr. Christie, you refer to your forthcoming
circular, which will meet the demands of the Greenwich Observatory, [
think they will be satisfied. With reference to the query about astro-
nomical and civil reckoning, I think the expedient I suggested of using
simply the name of the week-day (e. g., ‘‘ Wednesday”) will prove satis-
factory, while it adds only one word to the dispatch.

OQ. H. EER erEes:

[Accompanying this are the additions to the Smithsonian circular,
which have been incorporated in the revised edition. |
CORRESPONDENCE ON ASTRONOMICAL ANNOUNCEMENTS. 65

Acknowledgment from the Smithsonian Institution, January 27, 1880, to
Prof. C. H. F. PETERS, Clinton, N. Y.

DEAR SiR: Please accept our thanks for yours of January 21 rela-
tive to changes in circular of announcement of astronomical dispatches.
; | Very truly yours,
S. F. BAIRD.

Letter from the Smithsonian Institution, February 16, 1880, to Prof. C.
H. F. PETERS, Clinton, N. Y.

DEAR Sir: The dispatch from the Astronomer Royal of England
appears not to follow the convention for telegraphic announcements,
affording another instance of the ambiguity to which we have before
alluded and which we wish to correct.

As received by us, it reads:

“Gill telegraphs from Cape Town, comet, twelfth February, 0858 cape
12311, motion plus 235, minus 20. Astronomer Royal.”

The 0858 cape we think refers to time of discovery and the 12311 to
be a mistake of the operators.

Yours very truly,
SPENCER F. BAIRD.

Letter from the Litchfield Observatory of Hamilton College, Clinton, N. Y.,
February 19, 1880, to the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution.

DEAR SiR: You are right; there is certainly a mistake in the dispatch
from Cape Town about Gill’s comet, five figures having been omitted,
but it is impossible to say which—either those indicating the R. A. or
those of the North Polar Distance. The telegram, as communicated in
your letter received this morning, and which is in the cipher-system
proposed years ago by Littrow (but hardly applicable in this country,
where by law every figure must be written out in words), can be inter-
preted in the two following ways:

Comet 12th February 8, 58,, mean time Cape, R. A. 1239.11, N. P. D.
[5 figures omitted], motion 4+ 235’ =3°55/ in R. A. — 20’/in N. P. D.

Comet [etc.] R. A. [5 figures omitted], N. P. D. = 123° 11’ (7. e., Decl.
— 33° 11’) motion, etc.

Probably some telegrapher between Cape Town and Greenwich or
Greenwich and Washington got tired of sending ten consecutive fig-
ures; and indeed this system of dispatches has been a source of contin-
ual blunders, so that Lord Lindsay (whose assistant Mr. Gill was, before
he went to take charge of the Cape Observatory) did wrong in reviving
it. The system adopted by the Smithsonian Institution was discussed
with the late Professor Littrow, Professor Bruhns, of Leipzic, and others,
and has worked to satisfaction so far. It will be still more acceptable
to all when the additions lately discussed are introduced, and I would
recommend (which, perhaps, also, is your intention) to issue the amended

H. Mis. 26——5
66 CORRESPONDENCE ON ASTRONOMICAL ANNOUNCEMENTS.

scheme in the form of a circular to the principal observatories interested
in it (perhaps sending a number of copies for distribution to Greenwich,
Paris, Berlin, and Vienna).

C. H. F. PETERS.

Zetter from Dr. B. A. GOULD, at sea, steamship “ City of Montreal,”
August 27, 1880, to the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution.

My DEAR PROFESSOR: I have been about six weeks in Germany,
France, and England, and have everywhere found the astronomers
greatly perturbed in the matter of astronomical telegrams regarding
comets, planets, &c., which, they tell me, almost unfailingly go wrong,
no matter how great the care with which they are sent.

Finally, the Germans have agreed upon a system to which they have
secured the assent of Admiral Mouchez at Paris, and of the Astron-
omer Rcyal. And they have asked me to communicate with you on
the subject and obtain your assent, which I told them you would surely
give, since the European astronomers are all of accord.

It consists of three principal points:

First. That instead of several transatlantic telegrams to different
observatories, the Smithsonian should send only one, viz, to Professor
Krueger, the new director of the observatory at Kiel and editor of the
Astronom. Nachrichten. He undertakes to communicate the same tele-
gram instantly to all the European astronomical centers, at the expense
of the Astronomische Gesellschaft, if necessary.

Secondly. That a second similar telegram should be forwarded next
diay, or as soon as a Second observation of the body has been obtained,
thus making only two trans-atlantic telegrams in all.

Thirdly. That for these telegrams a special code should be used,
which they have sent me, and which they all recommend. - - -

B. A. GOULD.

Proposed mode of transmitting notices of the discovery of comets, as-
teroids, &c., across the Atlantic.

%. Only one dispatch to be sent at a time. This, if for Europe, to be
addressed to Professor Krueger at the observatory in Kiel; if for Amer-
tea, to Professor Baird, Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution.

A second telegram, however, to be sent as soon as a second observa-
tion has been obtained. Thus only two dispatches in all.

2. All numerical data to be expressed by a word for each figure, with
out regard to its value as dependent upon its position. Thus 58” to
be telegraphed as “ five eight,” “12” as “ one two,” 30” as “ three
nought,” &e.

3. All places which would ordinarily be left vacant when the num-
ber is written in figures must be filled up by the word “ nought.” Thus
for the right ascension 1" 5™.3 would be written ‘ nought one nought five
three” or for R. A. 19% 3™ the dispatch would be sent “ one nine nought
CORRESPONDENCE ON ASTRONOMICAL ANNOUNCEMENTS, 67

three nought” (the tenths of minutes being given for right ascensions,
but not for other data, as per section 5).

4, Time of observation to be given in round hours of Greenwich
mean time, preceded by day and month, and never in any other way.
Thus an observation on October 12, at 13" Gr. M. T., would be announced
“ one two October one three;” or November 3, 7" Gr. M. T. as “ three No-
vember nought seven.’ In this way the time of observation which is to
be given first of all will be expressed by the name of the month pre-
ceded by one or two numbers, and followed always by two.

5. Right ascension to follow the date and be given by jive figures ex-
pressing hours, minutes, and tenths of minutes, in time, preceded by the
word ‘ ascension.”

6. Declinations to be given by four words expressing degrees and
minutes, preceded by the word “ north” or “ south.”

7. Daily motion in R. A. to be givenin minutes and tenths of minutes
of time, preceded by the word “ plus” or “ minus.”

8. Daily motion in Decl. to be given in minutes of arc, preceded by
the word ‘“ north” or *‘ south.”

9. Magnitude, if given, to be preceded by the word “ mag.”

Thus, in ordinary cases, the essential numerical data will be con-
tained in twenty-four words.

EXAMPLE.

“Comet discovered by Swift, Oct. 12. Place, k. A. = 2 23.7 and
Decl. = 4+ 35° 2/ at 7 Greenw. M.T. Motion—1™.2 in R. A. and +4 8
in Decl. 12th magnitude.”

DISPATCH.

“Comet Swift one two October nought seven ascension nought two
two three seven north three five nought two minus one two north eight
mag one two.”

Professor Krueger (editor of the Astronom. Nachrichten) undertakes to
repeat the dispatch throughout Europe at cost of the Kiel observatory
or of the Astronomische Gesellschaft. The Paris and Greenwich ob-
servatories, as well as all the German ones, accept the arrangement.

Acknowledgment from the Smithsonian Institution, October 30, 1880, toa
Dr. BENJAMIN A. GOULD, 18 Pemberton Square, Boston.

DEAR DR. GOULD: Your letter, headed “At Sea, City of Montreal,
August 27, 1880,” reached me this afternoon, the 30th of October, at
apparently a long interval, if the date is correct.

I write very hurriedly to express my gratification at the prospect of
seeing you again in Washington, and to say that I of course desire to
follow the wishes of astronomers at home and abroad in the matter of
68 CORRESPONDENCE ON ASTRONOMICAL ANNOUNCEMENTS.

the telegrams. 1 would, however, like to have Dr. Peters, of Clinton,
and the astronomers of the observatory here concur in the change; but
when you visit Washington all this can be arranged.

Very truly, yours, SPENCER F. BAIRD.

Letter from the Smithsonian Institution, November 11, 1880, to Prof. C.
H. F. PETERS, Hamilton College, Clinton, N. Y.

DEAR Sir: I inclose herewith a proposition for the modification of
the present plan of the exchange of telegraphic announcements between
the United States and Europe. Will you kindly give me your views at
the earliest possible moment? We have in type a new circular on this
subject, and of course wish to correct it, should it be desirable.

The proposition submitted, which Dr. Gould has just sent us, is the
result of a conference with the leading astronomers of Europe.

Truly yours, SPENCER F. BAIRD.

Letter from the Smithsonian Institution, November 24, 1880, to Prof. C.
H. F. PETERS, Hamilton College, Clinton, N. Y., with inclosure.

DEAR PROFESSOR PETERS: Will you kindly send me at your early
convenience that promised criticism and memorandum in regard to the
accompanying proof of the circular, and all the suggestions of change
brought up by Professor Gould? I wish to close this business as soon
as possible, with your kind assistance.

Yours, truly, SPENCER F. BAIRD.

Letter from the [ttchfield Observatory of Hamilton College, Clinton, N. Y.,
November 25, 1880, to the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution.

DEAR Sir: I hasten to answer yours of 11th instant in regard to
the telegraphic exchange system of astronomical discoveries. I found
it here after my return from New York (delayed by a few days’ visit
at West Point), and, in order to be brief, I can touch only upon the more
essential points.

Of the three points made in the letter (written by Dr. B. A. Gould)
of which you send me a copy, the first gives, as the reason, economy in
the number of trans-atlantic dispatches. I must wonder, after I had
explained twice before during the last year to the astronomers at Berlin
that as far as I know only one message: passes the Atlantic and is dis-
tributed then in Europe to the five central stations, that, without evi-
dence to the contrary, this again is used as an argument for having the
dispatches from the Smithsonian Institution sent to only one European
central station, and this to be (as if of course) in Germany. When
Dr. Gould’s letter asserts that ‘‘the European astronomers are all of
accord” he says too much for, from a letter of Professor Foerster on the
subject (found here likewise at my return) it appears that Vienna does
not consent; that Pulkowa seems to have been not even asked, and it is
CORRESPONDENCE ON ASTRONOMICAL ANNOUNCEMENTS. 69

not quite clear besides under what aspect the matter has been presented
at Paris and Greenwich, and how far these agree with the proposed
change of programme. But after all, what is there objectionable to
sending the communications from the Smithsonian Institution not to
Germany only, but also, as heretofore, to Greenwich, Paris, Vienna,
and Pulkowa? I remember when, on a visit to Washington, I laid the
first proposition before your illustrious predecessor, I had named only
Greenwich, because the nearest place, to send the dispatches to, and
it was Professor Henry who suggested to insert besides, Berlin, Paris,
and Vienna, to which later was added Pulkowa. Fortunately, from our
stand-point on this side of the ocean, we have a broader and more equi-
table view of scientific life in Europe, free from national jealousies.

As to the second point suggested in Dr. Gould’s letter, I cannot deny
that sometimes a second communication about the same object of dis-
covery (not the next day, but rather after the lapse of three or five days)
would be very welcome, though in most cases such a repetition would
not be of very great utility. Professor Foerster puts it on the ground to
make sure against a mistake in the first dispatch. But then, if the two
should not agree? Would he then desire even three dispatches (as bank
accountants take the sum three times when the first two give it differ-
ent). While the cable company with great liberality did concede a lim-
ited (and later frequently surpassed) number of words and of dispatches
per year, it seems hardly proper to ask a duplication of the favor, as
long as it has not been clearly shown that such duplication is of abso-
lute desirability.

Thirdly, as to the code to be used, I do not see in the slightest what
objection can be made to that adopted by the Smithsonian Institution.
It was the result of a consultation with the late Professor Littrow at
Vienna, was in the main set up by Professor Bruhns and myself at Leip-
zic, and approved at the time by the astronomers at Berlin. The new
edition of your circular of instructions embraces the modifications and
suggestions which you had received from various sides, and Professor
Airy, as you will remember, expressed himself satisfied. Professor
Pickering, as well as myself, has carefully compared the scheme with
the one now presented by Dr. Gould. I cannot find that it is an im-
provement in precision to say for example “one two” for “twelve,” “two
nought” for “twenty,” or always “nought three” for simply “three,”
&ec. Looking at the economy of words, Dr. Gould’s scheme requires
twenty-four, the Smithsonian (even with the additions now introduced)
at the utmost only sixteen—a difference of considerable and (for the
cable) essential importance.

Dr. Gould says of his code, ‘which they all recommend,” I am sure
that what all desire and recommend is only a uniformity of the code in
use. The Smithsonian code, being far superior in precision, also more
economical and now perfected by the suggestions of experience, will
readily be accepted. The difficulty has been that some astronomers
70 CORRESPONDENCE ON ASTRONOMICAL ANNOUNCEMENTS.

either have not carefully enough read the articles of the programme, or
had forgotten them. The complaints that have come to my knowledge
from abroad have all been in regard to certain comet announcements
telegraphed from this side, and not worded in accordance with the rules
ofthe programme. On the other hand I had to remind the Berlin astron-
omers (and also those at the Washington observatory) that the time
for the position is the “following midnight,” while they mistook for it
the hour and minute of sending from Washington, added by the teleg-
rapher. The circular which you have prepared will prevent for the
future these and similar mistakes.
C. H. F. PETERS.

Letter from the Litchfield Observatory, Hamilton College, Clinton, N. Y.
December 21, 1880, to the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution.

DEAR Sir: [ have sent to the “ Astronom. Nachrichten,” as you per-
mitted me to do, an article in explanation and elucidation of the form
of dispatches we have used, and of the additions that have been made
in the new edition.

As you have still under consideration the publication of this revised
programme (I infer sv from your last letter), I inclose here a compari-
son, which shows that our form requires only 16 words, while that pre-
sented by Dr. Gould requires 26 |or, more correctly, 27]; and it is to
be remarked besides that the latter never can have less, because the
“noughts ” always must be inserted, while ours has usually less than 16
words.

Yours, very truly,
C. H. F. PETERS.

EXAMPLE.

Comet discovered by Swift Oct. 12. Place R. A. = 2 hours 23 min-
utes 7 and decl = + 35° 2/ at 7 hours Green. m.t. Motion — 1 minute
2 in right ascension and + 8/ in decl. — 12th mag.”

DISPATCH.

“Comet Swift [one two october nought seven ascension nought] two
twenty [two] three forty [seven] north [three] thirty five [nought] two
[minus one two] north (*) eight [mag.| [one two] twelfth Tuesday.”

The dispatch as here proposed has 26 words—27 if written by the
rules—while in our form it requires only 16 in all.

Letter from the Smithsonian Institution, November 30, 1880, to Sir GEORGE
B. ArRyY, director of the Observatory, Greenwich, England.

Str: Herewith we send you a proof copy of a revised circular in re-
gard to the telegraphic announcement of astronomical discoveries, which

*Nought, by rule.
CORRESPONDENCE ON ASTRONOMICAL ANNOUNCEMENTS. 7

gives—with a few slight modifications—the system of condensed mes-
sages which has been in practical use for seven years.

We also inclose a draft of a modified plan proposed to us for the
same object, and beg that you will carefully examine both documents
and advise us, as soon as may be convenient, in regard to the propriety
or expediency of exchanging the one for the other.

Very respectfully, &c.,
SPENCER F. BAIRD.

Letter from the Royal Observatory, Greenwich, London, December 22, 1880,
to the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution.

DEsB Sie: I have waited a few days before answering your letter
of November 30 for better consideration of the proposed plan for tele-
graphic announcements of observations.

It appears to me, and I am entirely supported in this opinion by Mr.
Christie, that it will be a great improvement of the former plan, and we

heartily recommend it for adoption.
Yours, faithfully,

G. B. AIRY.

Letter from the Smithsonian Institution, November 29, 1880, to the Eart
of CRAWFORD AND BALCARRES, Dun Echt, Scotland.

Srr: Inclosed please find a circular we have just prepared in regard
to the telegraphic announcement of astronomical discoveries which
gives—with a few slight modifications—the system of condensed mes-
sages which has been in use for seven years.

We also inclose a draft of another plan proposed for the same object,
and beg that you will carefully examine the same, and give us your
views, as early as may be convenient, regarding the advisability of its

substitution for the former plan.
Very truly yours, &c.,

SPENCER F. BAIRD.

Letter from the Observatory Dun Echt, Aberdeen, January 7, 1&81, to the
Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution.

Str: Referring to your letter of November 29, 1880, I may say that our
experience at Dun Echt shows that telegraphic announcements of astro-
nomical discoveries should represent the actual known facts of the case
im a way to which the majority of the senders and receivers of the mes-
sages are accustomed. Thus the message should take the form of an
observation as usually published, the name, date, and place being given.
Any reduction of the time to a meridian other than that of the observa-
tion or any prediction of a future place of the object are equally to be
deprecated as likely to introduce errors.*

*The possibility of making a blunder in the simple operation of referring the time
to another meridian or of failing to recognize the somewhat improbable nature of a
72 CORRESPONDENCE ON ASTRONOMICAL ANNOUNCEMENTS.

Besides, by giving the R. A. to the nearest tenth of a minute of time
and the declination to the nearest minute the observation is available, in
- the case of a comet for combination to find an approximate orbit. This
form, too, gives the dispatches a permanent value.

I give the following partly in confirmation of what I think the best
features of the proposed systems and partly as suggestions that may
probably be of use.

The greatest clearness seems to be obtained by giving numbers as
spoken thus: “12” should be “‘ twelve” and not “one two”

I would suggest that the day of the month counted astronomically
be absolutely distinguished from the rest of the message by giving it
the ordinal form. Thus “October 12” would be “twelfth October.”

For a like reason the motion in declination might be given as ** north-
ward” or “southward.” If the length of a telegram is estimated by the
number of words in it and not by their length, it would seem desirable
to express “‘magnitude” in full and not by “ mag,” which a telegraph
elerk would probably confound with “*may “or May.”

Again, if “nought” is objected to why not use “cypher” as being in
more frequent use than ‘‘zero.” If the daily motion in &. A. and Deel.
is not given, would it not be better to use the words “ preceding” and
“‘following” or their symbols “p” and “f,” in place of “west” and
“east,” which latter in practice refer to the horizon and not to the equa-
tor. Thus “nf” would represent ‘‘ northeast.” But the daily motions
in R. A. and Decl. admit of greater precision.

A complete message would thus contain the word “ comet” or “planet,”
the discoverer’s name, the day (expressed as above) and month, the
hour in local mean time and the place. The right-ascension to the
nearest tenth of a minute of time, the declination to the nearest minute
preceded by the word “north” or “south.” Next, the daily motion in
R. A. also to the tenth of a minute of time with the sign “plus” or
¢¢minus” then the daily motion in minutes of are “‘ northward” or “south-
ward,” and lastly, the magnitude or any other particulars likely to aid
the search.

Thus:

““Comet Swift twenty-fifth October seventeen Rochester twenty-one
fifty-nine cypher north fifty-one twenty-five minus twenty-one two
northward fifty-seven magnitude ten.”

Would mean—

“Comet discovered by Swift on October 25th at 17" Rochester mea
time in right ascension 21" 59™.0 and declination + 51° 25’, Daily
motion— 21™.2 and + 57’. As bright as a star of the tenth magnitude.”

This form of message, although slightly longer than others that have

dispatch when so transformed, is shown in the example given in the ‘‘ Proposed Mode
of Transmitting, &c.,” where the comet Swift (presumably discovered at Rochester)
must either have been found at 2p. m. or the longitude have been applied with the
wrong sign.

.
CORRESPONDENCE ON- ASTRONOMICAL ANNOUNCEMENTS. 73

been proposed, has the advantage of giving a complete approximate
observation.

In conclusion, whatever form the dispatches may take, it seems an
admirable proposal that for transmission across the Atlantic they shall
all pass between two responsible persons; in this way only does it
seem possible to prevent the useless distribution of messages which are
obviously unintelligible.

CRAWFORD & BALCARRES.

Letter from the editor of the *‘ Science Observer” (and Corresponding Seec-
retary of the Boston Scientific Society, Boston), February 4, 1881, to the
Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution.

DEAR Sir: The announcement in Monthly Notices Vol. XLI, No. 2,
that a letter concerning a somewhat new method for the transmission
of comet discoveries to your Institution across the cable, has caused
quite a discussion among the members of the Boston Scientific Society,
who are now discussing the matter in all its lights. Lack of informa-
tion on one or two points have been difficulties in the way, and if you
can inform us on these subjects you will greatly favor us. These points
relate to the transmission over the cable. It is customary for Govern-
ment messages to be composed of letters and figures, which, by keys
at both ends, may be translated into the vernacular. Knowing this to
be the case, we would respectfully inquire whether comet announcements
in the past have been sent in words or in figures, thus:

Comet Swift twelfth Oct. seven twenty-three seven &c &c, or
Comet Swift 12 Oct 7 2 3 7 &e &

And furthermore, we would like to know whether the new arrange-
ment contemplates the transmission of the words or the figure charac-
ters.

Sincerely yours,
JOHN RITCHIE, Jr.

Letter from the Smithsonian Institution, February 16, 1881, to JOHN
RITCHIE, Jr., corresponding secretary of the Boston Scientific Society.

DEAR Sir: In reply to your letter of February 4, relative to the sys-
tem of telegraphic announcement of astronomical discoveries, I beg to
say that the present Smithsonian system and the proposed substitute
contemplate the use of words only. One dispatch has been received by
us expressed according to Karlinski’s code; but in all the other an-

-nouncements, the data communicated have been given in words.

Inclosed we send you copies of the circulars referred to.

Very truly yours,
SPENCER F. BAIRD.
74 CORRESPONDENCE ON ASTRONOMICAL ANNOUNCEMENTS.

Leiter from the editor of the “ Science Observer,” Boston, May 13, 1881, to
the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution.

DEAR Sie: It is with pleasure that Iam able to call your attention
to the success of a scheme devised by Mr. 8. C. Chandler, jr., and my-
self for the transmission by cable of astronomical intelligence. It has
just been successfully tested by transmission both ways, of the elements
and ephemeris of Swift’s comet, and I append a scheme showing how
an announcement would look according to both codes.

Yours, &e.,
J. RITCHIE, Jr.

Announcement of Swift’s comet per “Science Observer” code:
1 2 3 4 5 6 7
comet Swift conge ratify torsim smart-money tolerate

According to present (European) code:
Comet Swift may zero one zero two zero five ascension zero zero zero
zero north three seven two five plus zero three south one* two.

[ Translation. }

Comet Swift, May 1, 25 5™; R. A. 02 0™; declination N. 37° 25/; daily
motion + 3" R. A.;—1° 2’ declination.

Should words 4, or 4 and 5, in the “Science Observer” code, or words
5, or 5 and 6, or words 4, or 4 and 7, be made unintelligible in trans-
mission, the message would still be as intelligible and the comet as
easy to find as was the case before the present European code was
adopted, while the loss of word 2 would be of no consequence, being
merely the name of the discoverer, and word 3 the time of discovery is
as a rule so well determined by the date of message that its loss would
not be of detriment to the general sense. By loss I mean the mutila-
tion of a word so as to render it unrecognizable as is sometimes the

case in ocean telegraphy.
J. RITCHIE, Jr.

Letter from the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, May 16, 1881, to
Mr. J. R1iTcHI®£, Jr., editor of the “ Science Observer,” Boston.

Str: This Institution hails with satisfaction every attempt at en-
larging the channels, and at increasing the fullness and accuracy of
scientific information. Itis possible that for the purpose of cable trans-
mission of the details of an astronomical ephemeris, an arbitrary signal
code (as suggested by you) may have some advantages; though it must
not be concealed that it also presents some disadvantages; the complica-
tion both of preparation and of translation increasing with the number
of elements to be communicated.

With the spread of astronomical knowledge and interest, and the

*T am in some doubt about this figure as I have nct the code by me,
CORRESPONDENCE ON ASTRONOMICAL ANNOUNCEMENTS. (ie

growth of desires and needs for more minute information respecting
sudden or transitional phenomena, improved methods and formulas will
doubtless be correspondingly developed.
For the present purposes of this Institution the system it has adopted
will (with probably some slight improvement) prove sufiicient.
Yours, very respectfully,
SPENCER F. BAIRD.

Letter from the [itch field Observatory of Hamilton Collge, Clinton, Oneida
County, New York, April 28, 1882, to the Secretary of the Smithsonian
Institution.

DEAR Str: At the meeting of the International Astronomical Society
at Strasburg in September last, the matter of telegraphic communica-
tions of astronomical discoveries was considered. In the committee ap-
pointed upon this subject, after some discussion about the ‘ Phrase-Code”
of the (Boston) ‘Science Observer,” it was agreed that the code of the
Smithsonian Institution (Mise. Coll., 263), be recommended for general
use—at least for the present. A resolution to that effect was adopted
by the Society (S. Report in Viertelgahrschrvft, vol. 16, page 285 and 351).
But there was a strong feeling expressed against the manner in which
most of the telegrams of comet discoveries, sent through the Smithsonian
Institution, lately had come to hand in Europe. They were worded
without the slightest regard to the Smithsonian programme, therefore
unintelligible, and worse than no information at all, by reason of causing
fruitless painstaking to astronomers searching for the object.

Unwilling that astronomers abroad should be led to throw the blame
thereof upon the Smithsonian Institution, I take the liberty to suggest
that you would refuse to forward dispatches of the kind, if they are not
made out in conformity with the Smithsonian programme. This pro,
gramme has been distributed so largely throughout the United States (in
the Smithsonian Annual Reports and asa circular), that any amateur dis-
coverer who desires to avail himself of the channel of communication
so liberally offered by the Smithsonian Institution can hardly be ig-
norant of it. Any delay, therefore, will be his own fault, if he neglects
following the prescribed form.

Yours, very respectfully,
Ont hy PETERS.

Letter from the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, May 10, 1882, to
Prof. C. H. F. PETERS, of the Litchfield Observatory, Clinton, N. Y.

DEAR Sir: In reply to your favor of April 28, Iam gratified that
the astronomical convention at Strasburg has approved of the Smithson-
ian code for telegraphic announcements. With regard to the irregulari-
ties noticed, it may be said that very few of the dispatches received by
this Institution comply fully and literally with the published programme.
76 CORRESPONDENCE ON ASTRONOMICAL ANNOUNCEMENTS.

Thus, notwithstanding that Article LV, section 6, specifies the very con-
cise and explicit statement of the day of the week for the date, a majority
of notices received substitute the day of the month. It is difficult,
therefore, to carry out your suggestion that we should refuse to forward
dispatches not in exact form.

Before going to press with our long-delayed astronomical telegraph
circular, I will trouble you with extracts from a single additional re-
sponse to our request for suggestions, asking from you the favor of
your consideration and judgment on it.

Copy of extract from a communication received from the Observatory
at Dun Echt, Seotland, and dated January 7, 1881.

[Inclosure.—The principal portion of the latter from Lord Lindsay-
Earl Crawford. |

On the foregoing extract, I venture to make the following queries:

1. Is there not some force in the suggestion to employ date of obser-
vation rather than prospective date and predicted place?

2. Is there any advantage in designating R. A. in hours, minutes, and
tenths, over the present form in hours, minutes, and sixths (or seconds
in tens)?

3. Might it not be well to write the motion in declination, as north-
ward or southward, in fall?

4, To avoid any risk of misapplication, might it not be well to write
in full “tenth magnitude”?

5. Is not the word “zero” really preferable to either “nought” or
“cipher”?

Your frank opinion and decision on these points will be very accepta-
ble, and I may say will be finally adopted.

Yours, very respectfully,
SPENCER F. BAIRD.

The publication of the revised edition of the Astronomical Telegraph
Circular was delayed by various circumstances; among which was a
contemplated plan for telegraphing American discoveries to our own
observatories as well as to those abroad. This had been urged by a
large number of American astronomers; the correspondence on which
subject it is unnecessary here to publish. Prof. E. C. Pickering (of the
Harvard Observatory), under date of January 13, 1882, strongly recom-
mended, in addition to this, the adoption by the Institution of the cipher
code of Messrs. 8S. C. Chandler and John Ritchie, of the Science Observer.
This whole matter still remains under advisement.
REPORT ON SMITHSONIAN EXCHANGES FOR 1882.

By GEORGE H, BOEHMER.

The growth of the business of receiving and transmitting the scien-
tific and literary exchanges of the Institution has necessitated a change
in the method of recording and managing the same; the plans of opera-
tion, satisfactory some half a dozen years ago, being no longer available
without entailing increased trouble and considerable confusion in trac:
ing the histery of transactions.

With increase of duties has arisen the need of more complete organi-
zation; and during the past year a system of double entry, or of debit
and credit accounts, has been adopted. These accounts are arranged
in the form of card-catalogues, representing the societies in correspond-
ence with the Institution; and upon these cards each society is debited
for the books forwarded to it, and is credited for the receipts as commu-
nicated in return by formal announcement.

This experiment has of course greatly increased for the time the
amount of work required from the limited assistance allotted to this de-
partment, but in return it gives an increased command over the results,
and a much greater facility and economy of time in making references |
and comparisons.

By this plan, on the arrival of an invoice of parcels or boxes from
any establishment in the United States, for foreign distribution, ac-
companied (as required by the established rules) with a list of the inten-
ded recipients, to each of these is prefixed the number assigned to it in
our printed list of foreign correspondents, and the same are entered on
the proper cards, giving the date of reception, the name of the sender,
and the number taken from the entry in the invoice book (representing
the whole transmission considered as a single transaction), in which
book all receptions are first daily entered in their consecutive order.

The books or parcels receive the same numbers and are then laid
away in bins, each of which represents a certain city or cities or part of
them, in any given country. <A sufficient number of books having ac-
cumulated to justify a sending to any country, the card-catalogue serves
as a basis from which the invoices for the respective societies are made
up. This is done in advance, and while the books are being removed
from the bins and made up in bundles. In this manner sendings which
required a week, on the old plan of making up the invoices from the
parcels on hand, while being assorted and packed, may now be com-
pleted in two days.

This system has been introduced in the exchanges with Great Britain

V7
78 REPORT ON THE OPERATIONS OF EXCHANGES.

and Ireland and with Germany and Austria-Hungary, and is found to
work so well that its adoption for all other countries is deemed advis-
able. Such a course, however, will require the detail of two assistants
exclusively for this purpose; but, considering that the receipts during
the past year averaged 90 parcels per working day—exclusive of 31,568
parcels for the Government—the work required will be such as to keep
them both well employed.

The duty of the assistant in charge of the card-catalogues does not
cease here, but includes the entry to the credit of the respective socie-
ties, of any acknowledgments of the receipt of parcels sent them through
this office, while the duties of the receiving clerk include the verifying
and distributing of all incoming exchanges.

Another feature introduced during the year is a form of duplicate in-
voice which is to be mailed to every recipient within the United States
and British America, of exchange parcels from abroad, to be returned
to the Institution and transmitted as occasion offers to the sender of
the respective parcels.

During the past year over eight thousand parcels were sent out un-
der the system of domestic exchanges, requiring this number of entries
in the book of transmission. Each parcel had to be addressed and prop-
erly wrapped. This domestic branch of the service required the writ-
ing of nearly 13,000 letters of advice and invoices, and the directing of
the parcels and envelopes. All this work has been performed by the
entire force at intervals between foreign transmissions. Great punctu-
ality, of course, cannot possibly, be expected in each case, and it is
respectfully recommended that one assistant be appointed exclusively
for these duties.

The arranging and sending off of the foreign exchange, and the duties
pertaining to the transmission of Government document exchange should
be intrusted to one assistant, to the exclusion of any other duty.

One of the most important works begun during the past year is that
of completing the sets of Smithsonian publications furnished to foreign
societies. Several attempts have been made at different times to supply
such deficiencies, and circulars have been sent out on different occasions
requesting the foreign establishments to report the number of Smith-
sonian volumes in their respective libraries.

In connection with this work, a thorough examination of the number
of publications in the Smithsonian library, of the societies applying for
completion of our sets of publications, is required, for an equitable ap-
portionment. The preliminary steps to this have been taken, but the
magnitude and importance of the work, and the pressure of other busi-
ness, have made it impossible to complete the undertaking.

It has been the aim of the assistants of this Department not to allow
any accumulation whatever in the current work, and although with the
limited force it required great exertion, still the close of the year finds
the service unincumbered by any work of the previous year.
REPORT ON THE OPERATIONS OF EXCHANGES. Cie
List of correspondents.

Mention was made in the report for 1881 of the sending of a circular
toall scientific establishments in correspondence with the Institution,
asking for corrections and additions of any addresses of public libraries,
learned societies or scientific bureaus of Governments. The Institution
also requested secretaries of societies to furnish a list of the names and
addresses of persons actively engaged in scientific or literary investiga-
tions, together with the particular branch of learning to which each was
devoted, with a view of facilitating communications and exchanges
with specialists in all parts of the world. Another item of information
desired related to the literary productions and the libraries of the re-
spective establishments.

Prompt responses having been very generally made to this circular,
a new list of foreign correspondents was prepared and issued in the
early part of the year, showing an increase of almost 600 new societies
over the list published in 1878. Copies of this new list were sent to all
corresponding establishments, and, as a result of further corrections
since the date of publication, an “addition sheet” for the year 1882 is
herewith presented :

AFRICA: EUROPE:
AN DORI Algae tele ereitet= erelel om aiaelet= 2 Austria-Hungary ........... 45
Cape Colonies). o.oo oc.csscns 2 BCL STARY 6 ei cin ola in ee 11
12 se ee Se SERS Ae SSE Denmark. sooo. 52h ves cece 3
Betas PTaAnGe ease vos eee eee 50
AMERICA: Germany a2 2S eee eee 172
British America....<..-..-. - 9 Great Britain:
Central America: ine lande pessoa eee 395
Guatemalaiecea.-ceceae 2 Scotland ssessces see eee 20
IMGxI COs ace t et cen ce ceenee 4 Inslands2c55. cece 9
NWrestiindies abo steee oe Plc. 2 Wiles seco S ie ni eee 9
South America: Grecce hese eee eae 1
Argentine Confederation 4 Thali ye ee ae eee 17
BRAG elie cee si sais secre 6 Nethorlandsistaacecen eee 5
Chile tenet Jatin Lae = 1 NOnWayeiessececseeea eee ae 1
Colombia 2.5.5.0. ne. 2. 6 Portes 25 ees Ay aa 4
BiCuad OLsean essa eee 1 VOUM AMT tess see eee eee 1
Perse esses setae 2 FOSS aos ee es ee ee 4
WiSHeZUGlA so. to) noses 1 Spadina’ oscte ster sie ee
hoe Te NC Swedeniests)2 sc St Se ee 4
eae Switzerland oo. 232) sees 4
Indian sasscass osesisese 5 __ 758
Japan ser: She asco sie sos 4 as
BIN Gy see Sore walsteomserate 1 Total’ Sees sees eee 818
— 10 ms
AUSTRALIA:
New South Wales .......... 1
Queensland) 2.255. 22<)<.s-2< 2
Wictorlaesansccoescceneccas 4
80 REPORT ON THE OPERATIONS OF EXCHANGES.

Card catalogues.

The information received from the foreign establishments in reply to
the circular relative to the preparation of a new list of foreign corre’
spondents served in the preparation of three card catalogues, of which
one is to represent a list of scientific persons together with the partic-
ular branch of learning to which they are devoted. The second one is
to represent an account kept, with each establishment, of the Smith-
sonian publications on hand, as reported by the librarians, and shows
the successive sendings. As an illustration the card for the British
Museum, London, England, is given:

No. 1819.

Country. City. Name of establishment.

British Museum,

eee eee te cee ees cone cows | AJULUUIL ~ cee w we ee ewes wwe

Books in library January 1, 1881.

|
Ss Smithsonian publications sent.
= Smithsonian publica-
a tions.
e Total.
a
a S.C. | M.C R. Date. 8.C.| M.C.
Ss
1753..|1, 300,000 | 1-22 | 1- 5 | 1846-54 | 1881, May 15 23 | 18-22 | 1879
8-17 | 1856-78 | 1882, April 10 |......|.....-..
1882 Dees 2gy eae a 6.7

The third card catalogue represents a general account of all trans-
actions of exchanges for any one establishment. For the sake of illus-
tration we will again select the card for the British Museum, London,
England (No. 1819, of the list of foreign correspondents) :

ENGLAND. No. 1819. LONDON.
|
Date. Sender. Sent. ee
1882.
Jan. 28. | 1-Engineer (1209) .....- 2... scene nn cmcieseewee|-tp ser cases << ]sn ones mansiocas
3 New York Academy of Sciences ---.-- .---|---- 2. 22. -- 2} eee
I Mnseo Mexico 222-0 <n sc = seeeeeoesitee aioe P’ck. 1410...| May 18, 1882
March TGensus Office 2 <..c. 5.2.5 ocene cece eee es etceeies a5 6/2 oll eee eitertie nines
MButtalo Society. -o- co: soos eee eee eee ieee erecte sla ce seal aaa eran teketoete
1 Wisconsin Geology, vol. 3 and atlas . -.--|.----.--------|---- e-e-e2 00
Inclosures :

A, W. EB. O’Shatigenessy 255 oo. 5 ose n ce een = wees oe'e| Subm a iemiam tna

A. Butler

eee eee

Spl b0ytl Sage CE SASe bo soed sodas Sos condllssoc Sgqgcese S4llsadiconccessace
REPORT ON THE OPERATIONS OF EXCHANGES.

81

ENGLAND. No. 1819. LONDON.
Date. Sender. Sent. tg
1882. Inclosures:

March. WOO Ward) 225522 osas sais eae cle cs sll teiec a cisiceineaea|sanee nieteee seta
Ri ONG ae Bo Bee Sopa Scot céeone Hoar Marla lee oy esas aceceeee

May 1. Smithsonian Report, 1880 ......-.....-.- May 15, 1882 | June 23, 1882
May i BostoncAthenswum\ (140); sas2eraeemescis es sce oschesesmeise lee eet ote Caen
IBostonyAcademy (140) Soo a emeccieeccioe | eas iecce smal aoe cmaee este

iNaval Observatory i(143)5 see nee sees sens ane cee cos culncoeaeeeeee ees

IMM seOp MEXICO Soc 2 aso, fac Scape ee mee One Seas Sem eel een iaematlaeee,

1 American Philosophical Society (209) .-.-
1 Saint Louis Academy (205
1 Census ; 6 Congressional Directory (133) -
1 Agricultural Department (162)........-.-

eee eee eee eee oe

ee ee es

weer et eee eee ee

JUNE) 20s rom N. Ha Wanchelll (271)e-.52--co cece ce esc caciew sce =4|oseneecaceienia
Jil MinnesotarAcademiy (286) so oc.- sc sicoac a =|oaerosinne es eee ell meme ce ioclel ara

etal vane 20 tal Pegs OSLOT SOCICLYA(G0O))-- sae ie alee at cen laces coios sees cleeisayesiemecic
ANaer, 72.24, -\| ll Draventarereye 1BiebgeP i G1i3) fig SoS Sareo Se ceaseao|loaee S-o6e4 cane |lssodedondelosee
2S lelNavaliObservatory (366) 2s:cs23 ssacsu Sos. ceecooseseeuse ee este aes

Octo sy luNews York A cademy,(399) 2-28 Le seiko Sacre bare ae ors leone eee eee ee
65) |e BostonrA cademy/(A03) cc 5at cs sas ciate cto saline erence ese aiets Dioceses eee
Septws0.),| cl Buttalo Society:\(395). 2c sco5s~ soca cs albenients wsetnmeie teenie meee
Octo 10a Iawashburn Observatory (408) -ss2os5-s.s|eecers eee ccc oatee oem as
185 | LDr-JohnMasoni(436) fs soseeiscs cloa= so! NOVs LD) LOG2 ao encceesernen

In order to fully understand this card, it must be mentioned that each
lot of books sent to the Smithsonian Institution for transmission accord-
ing to directions forms one single entry inthe in voice book of incoming
exchanges, in which the daily receptions are entered consecutively. The
number of this entry is noted on the list of addresses (which has to
accompany each sending, specifying the nature and contents of the
respective parcels) and on the parcels themselves. This numberwill be
found on the above card catalogue, appended to the name of the sender,
thus simplifying inquiry into the nature of the sending, should it become
necessary.

Rules relative to scientific and literary exchanges.

In consequence of the great inconvenience occasionally experienced
by this office from indiscriminate sendings to it, for foreign transmis-
sion, of exchange packages, without specification of contents or any list
of addresses, involving an increase of work and the risk of misunder-
standings, the following rules regarding the scientific and literary ex-
change have been adopted, and they are now rigidly adhered to.

1. Transmissions through the Smithsonian Institution to be confined
exclusively to books, pamphlets, charts, and other printed matter sent
as donations or exchanges, and not to include those procured by purchase.
The Institution and its agents will not receive, for any address, ap-
paratus and instruments, philosophical, medical, &c. (including micro-
scopes), whether purchased or presented; nor specimens of natural
history, except where special permission from the Institution has been
obtained.

S. Mis. 26——6
82 REPORT ON THE OPERATIONS OF EXCHANGES.

2. A list of the addresses and a statement of contents of each sending
to be mailed to the Smithsonian Institution at or before the time of
transmission.

3. Packages to be legibly addressed, and to be indorsed with the name
of sender and the contents.

4, Packages to be enveloped in stout paper, and securely pasted or
tied with strong twine—never sealed with wax.

5. No package to a single address to exceed one half of one cubic foot
in bulk.

6. To have no inclosures of letters.

7. To be delivered to the Smithsonian Institution or its agent free of
expense.

8. To contain a blank acknowledgment, to be signed and returned
by the party addressed.

9. Should returns be desired, the fact is to be explicitly stated on or
in the package.

10. Unless these conditions are , complied with, the parcels cannot be
forwarded by the Institution.

RECEIPTS.

1. For foreign transmission.

1882. 1881.

Whence received.

Packages.
Weight.
Packages,
Weight
Packages.
Weight

a. From Government Depart-

ments:

Adjutant-General’s Office - 1 AN ieeeah el Noeeeis sil sere eemcnel ponent

Agricultural Department --- 389! | IG6B2 ecco cee lcae con execeterse lisse

Bureau of Education, Inte- 2 CTS AAO ClleSasean ladeacase| Sasa adac
rior Department.

Bureau of Ethnology, Inte- | 2,081 | 14,356 |........]........|..------|-.-----.
rior Department.

Bureau of Statistics, Treas- 9 G8) 2deue Sale eee as | oe oes seen aes
ury Department

Census) Office: essa esse eee 1005: 230958 ease eceneserea ol cece cs. |e otemmetas

Compitrolleriof Currencys=2-|)0 1,000) |) S062) | Se eeemee cers aoe == mie eee eet ae

District Commissioners... .--. 24 1Oi ae rece lemme cee secs celralaaeeieee

Engineer Bureau, War De- Soa QV BAT: |e oe nellostemeeslosise econ cere eee
partment.

Geological Survey of the Ter- 2 LOD a sereee anos «ol wens eee
ritories.

Geological Surveys west of SAB HLS OME et ome cs otae's ine |e oo cites | ator
100th meridian.

Hydrographic Office, Navy 1 i eda cssa) See aaee Races os) souboase
Department.

Interior Department (exclu- 15 QAI a eee s| Loe sasnc| Comaceen mates care
sive of Bureaus).

Library of Congress ......-. B22 Wi BSOF 500s seers mile cco) aime ein etre oe eerie

Light-House Board, Treas- 1 So lsseccaies lscs esis see oan meets
ury Department.

Naval Observatory .......... 788.12; D2BN|Bew cow ces cie cies celles Otel eter
REPORT ON THE OPERATIONS OF EXCHANGES, 83

RECEIPTS—continued.

1. For foreign transmission.

1882. 1881.
Whence received. FS) 2 a 2
ey a = Re By Ba
rs op ra ep rs oy
& 2 3 e 3 e
6 5 A e As 5
a. From Government Depart-
ments:
Navy Department (exclusive 1 Doles coe ee Ges srctel sare sina\srs|| iste acre cos
of Bureaus). :
Signal Office, War Depart- UU) ry eee callng odeotic|icane e0el|se.co0005
ment.
Surgeon-General’s Office .-... 4 EVES a ee de| ose aadnl lbdboco calle saustssc
Treasury Department (ex- 1 Be ose Seal SS obese ssp ocotod||bo Bosore
clusive of Bureaus).
United States Fish Commis- 213 (0a Beece aaa ssceisccel laced tion seams Aes
sion.
United States Marine Hos- il 3: '| Lz ctdsiaelllageeae ase) se tates [peers
pital Service.
United States National Mu- 10 fo 0 a EPS re Bas! eS meaoeo | Setoasac
seum.
War Department (exclusive 12 QAG So Se eb ae oc eces| aioe lacomereets
of Bureaus).
6,470 | 60,118 | 4,326 | 22,903

b. From Smithsonian Institution.| 7,056 | 13, 447
————_|——_-——| 7, 056 | 13,447 | 5,436 | 17,499
oc. From scientific societies:

Academy of Sciences, Daven- 175 sh Pees eee Sepetaaoe comieces lasceSes.
port, Lowa.

Academy of Sciences, New 376 SIO! ss sdes eal esnceteel es sacciealmeceteoes
York City.

Academy of Sciences, Saint 261 OY fo BRET Aen Hee ats ase oe erets Sete aaa
Louis, Mo.

Academy of Natural Sci- 2505) PA OB, lle om ese sehen Rony Ree
ences, Philadelphia, Pa.

Academy of Natural Science, 52 BG) a c/secrtste [ea Stare ws eit bate gay creas
Minnesota.

American Association for the 134 339
Advance of Science.

ee

American Entomological So- 18 Ct a eariad Becrsecasa aqupeael acca cece
ciety.

American Geographical So- 108 POS Bee eee eke ce eis, etn che etal (ies rer
ciety. ;

American Journal of Arts 211 TRI aaah et cia orders chavs eal tere ote | eeisen ae
and Sciences.

American Medical Associa- 59 0 U5} 8 a eel ayia vir Baya (ACA Shed
tion.

American Philological Asso- 35 Pao) ee eine| Mae pars lees Sahel Ie ee uy
ciation.

American Ee hilosophical: So-. |) Ly 2ee'(). 2 SE2 || o es yee ae oe a eee te
ciety.

American Statistical Asso- 23 AO! sre chs Sere pe ose es | a hall caret
ciation.

Augustana College, Rock 1 PON te Shere | a ee ee ea oe
Island, Il.

Board of Public Charities, 25 SO ede ciel oee des cal cates ee ieseate sets
Philadelphia.

Boston Academy of Arts and CaS Fea USP (a [eyelet el Reenter Ketan
Sciences.

Boston Atheneum. ......... 5 Dey Hil vee Naan arta rete baS Uyh ee ha Eee

Boston Society of Natural 286 SEO ese eeerera se sees ell |emuanyaiea At Ape eet

History.
84

REPORT ON THE OPERATIONS OF EXCHANGES.

RECEIPTS—continued.

1. For foreign transmission.

Whence received.

ce. From scientific societies:

Buffalo Society of Natural
Sciences.

Cincinnati Observatory -.

Essex Institute, Salem, Mass.

Geological Survey, Wisconsin

Historical Society, Philadel-

phia.
Johns Hopkins University,
Baltimore.
Michigan Horticultural So-
ciety.
Museum of Comp. Zoology,
Cambridge.
Peabody Museum,Cambridge
Public Library, Boston .....
Secretary of State, Illinois-.
Secretary of State, Michigan -
Geological Survey, Michigan.
Washburn Observatory,
Wisconsin.

d. From individuals:

BarelaveJAMese) ens ssesecoe
Bean Orel keane soe ee
Bernhardt, Dr. /P: Wi ....-4--
Bessels,ubmil os sae oeiccerc le
Browne Marbin Jicsecies acs
Collins; Captain’ss oo... ce-5
Collins, F.S...-.
Curley, James s-25 soc cscic ess
Chane, Jisls Socsnsoseosece
OWL NOS tele sso cebssGso 5506
Dement, H. D

Paton, Wan C es sate ctetee cia
Ides (ary Ae 13) g2G5506 sa5ehe
Gil Dry aN

Haines, Mary P
HasselquisigpA .<<c-)csac se

Holden, E.S
Holden; Mrs:/M.)\C)-22So5-55-
Horn, Geo. H.-.-
lelquyelth 10h Rese akbo.cacnec
Isnt in IDA see oceenausacse
Howard, L. A
Ingersoll rnests= <2 cscs -ce
KohlmanyMirse- 3-32. ce
Lesquereux, L-.<....<..-<.-
Mason gry Onmese= =e
Miligy Shlomtiygrseeete semester tae

Packages.

1882.

Packages.
o
Packages.

1881.

on

ive)
WR RU ROR Re

WR WEE WU RRR WR HR Qe

or

RPOwmrR&

ee

ee

es

ee ee ee
wee www wl eee wee el eee eee
See ee
ee
www www el ewww ewww ltteer ne
See ee
wee ew wow el ewes eee else eee oe
See eee
wee we ewe ele eee weer eee ee
ee ee ee ee
ee ee
ee ee
ee ee ee ee
ee ee

eee ee er

ewe wes onl wwe eww el eee eee ne

wee eee

er |

were ere
REPORT ON THE OPERATIONS OF EXCHANGES. 85

RECEIPTS—continued.

1. For foreign transmission.

1882. 1881.
Wh 7 d g | : B a °
ence received. m | # 5 e Sp =
= za “4 =H rd 20
8 Oo 8 ® = ®
a = a = Ay =

d. From individuals:

Nicholson, W. L..-
Phillips, Henry, jr

eee ee etl ee wees oe

Pickman, B

Poore, B. Perle

Schott, Chas. A
Stevenson, J. J
Worthen, A. H

fer)

ee ee ee er ey
ee ne a
wet wee wel wee ew we eel tee weer

ee ee i se rr ry

were weer lee ew wees

rs

weet eo eee

OR WOR RE BOR E eS

Walley; len y ve Se< cies wale ie
Winchell, N. H

>

768 | 2,937
83,720 | 14,161 | 50, 155

19, 292

2. For domestic transmission.

The receipt of exchanges for domestic transmission during the year
was 8,676 parcels, of which 1,471 were contributed by home institutions

and 7,205 by establishments abroad, as follows:

Country.

No. of | No. of

1882. 1881.

No. of | No. of

boxes. | parcels. Weight. boxes. | parcels. Weight.

Pounds Pounds

From Argentine Confederation .. 2 P28 pal ea bet 27 ee eee ee eSaaae ae
POMMPATISET SR ae ee ape elena 2, 199 FW foi leneeaenetee te as eta oa
rom Delpramy oe se Sais c ean 5 495) DAGON cy hela eee ae eee ee
From Central America... ........ 2 2 DOO) | Bee Wace eae eer meres
Hromebentaarkee- tesa ssn aa a see 4 65 SODi | See oe Sollee eee sarees
HrompblastlNGiesa-peesece soles 1 5 QO eee Sek wee Ree en ea ete
Hromvbrancestssescl es ceeece sess 13 DSF | 2 EB8Silee, sacace ne cerenen | semeaee
irom) Germany sp seeeeissceesicece Paar 2 GOB. ONO pina acy eae etre ies a imate
From Great Britain -......<....- SOL SAC LON iOS 7AG | Ase see eee aia gee eee
MrompHollandsee ce sce soees ees 2 111 AGOL Wemsione elec oes telecieees
Bromiltaliyysscisccseccecesens 3 SAW BARD See SoNis ve ele e ve zieccs
Prom MexieOssessecees pec eecce 3 315 ay ADilleSeeaeits| BG ace Pee eae
romENOonwayaeccee ss occicceo ones uf SOOO MeO le sere pss ola reracialte sre ie cists
HromtRusslateee seen sicecesiee se 1 47 fol. Lal |e coer ae a |e oe ae |e
From Swedengsessestecss ceo seeee Q 156 QB ON a meersesalsepte Saree lleacteveesee
Prom Switzerlands:.2-4-22--22 ee 2 165 OD hee wet emcee el tei ers
Totalich cesaswaeenceecoes 152 | 7,205 | 33,654 111 | 7,890} 33,291

*This number includes two boxes lost at sea, the first accident known to occur to any cases of

exchanges between Germany and the United States.
86 REPORT ON THE OPERATIONS OF EXCHANGES.

3. For Government transmission.

1882. 1881.
Whence received. :
No. of | Pack- : No. of | Pack- :
boxes. | ages. Weight,! joxes. ages. Weight,

TE eee ee ee ee OO

From England, for Library of

WONETCES eee en eee ee eee te 16 16 | 2,420
From Germany, for Library of

ConeTessi=nee eases eee ee 1 iu 130
From France, for Library of Con-

ORCRS eee ee ae eae 1 1 200

From Public Printer, 631 parcels
of official documents, each con-
Taming H0iCOPlesas= e-em sase | ee ase 31,550 | 26,000 |...-...-. 155-550) ec eeriecte

In the report for 1881 special attention was called to the large in-
crease in the reception of exchange parcels, which in that year reached
22,051,exclusive of 15,550 copies of Government documents for distribu-
tion by the Saneh eon Institution to foreign Governments. This
number, although very large in comparison with previous years, has
been exceeded during the present year (1882) by about twenty per cent.;
the number amounting to 26,479, exclusive of 31,568 copies of Govern-
ment publications. They were received from the following sources:

Pack-

ages. Pounds.

1. For foreign transmission:
(a.) From: Government; Deparimentse. <2... 522+. 2-626 eee 6,470 | 60,118
(63) Brom Smithsonian’ Institution --.--.-<.s<sccssenee se eee 7,056 | 13,447
(eh) Krom ‘scientific societies 5... ssoc2- seccce eee eeeee eee 5, 119 8, 101
(aE romundividmals: 20:2. sec. seas ose clece ae eae eae 647 2, 054
MOta RAs etic cic osaine sete decuine cate eRe eee eee 19,292 | 83,720
2 eHoridomestic transmission sss es sisccecs cn eseo sen ce ee eee 7,187 | 30,904
Total - Soe wale diae Doe cldlee Dass ewes bau caliente eee eos a Oem aan od
3. For Government exchanges See ON No aaye Aes ec pte eh arate ater 31,568 | 28,750
abel at ccnjcl exe 5.0 5UL LF NGG eee 58, 047 | 143,374

TRANSMISSIONS.
1. Foreign transmissions.

The year 1882 began and ended without any accumulation of ex-
changes in this office, and all the transmissions made during the same
represent the actual receipts.

The total number of boxes sent during the year is 422, which is an
excess of 15 boxes over the year 1881, and is the highest on record. Of
these 422 boxes, 298 contain books, and 2 boxes specimens sent by
REPORT ON THE OPERATIONS OF EXCHANGES. 87

the National Museum. In the year 1881, with 407 boxes, only 264 con-
tained books, while 45 entire boxes of specimens were sent by the
National Museum and Fish Commission.

The transmissions of 1882 compare with former years as follows:

1875. 1876. 1877. 1878. | 1879. 1880. 1881. 1882.

BOXES oc sss 208 323 397 309 311 268 407 422
Bulk, in cubic 1,503 | 2,261 yd LOU ee LOOM neue 1,976 2, 800 2, 950

feet.
Weight, in lbs-} 45, 350 | 80,750 | 99,250 | 69,220 | 69,975 | 60,300 | 100,750 | 105,500

In all.cases the number of boxes given-in this report includes the
boxes sent under the system of Government document exchange to the
various Governments specified in the special report appended, and the
transmissions to Canada, which will be found specified in the detailed
report on domestic exchanges.

The 422 boxes sent during the year 1882 were distributed as follows:

Country.

Government
boxes
Smithsonian
boxes

Total.

AFRICA:
AEG Coe og none BaSnog Sore Sdcn SOOT BOOS DE DE A Gas SEArinSg) PESokeas
GapeWolonieseececss cows oe dee cca ces mee eece seo oae oan | Mamureaee
ASIN A eakayeee eee aos wosein'coc sn boscseemed seeeseeeenleeesmese

BEAVIS coe COS ASO RESIS CEE aCe ne DS SEED COE ESO COCC-OPBeAl mace sens

AMERICA: SSS
EST SAN OL C dine ee so stsee e tee aaee oe ee eee eee “They |
WY PESTO tte 818 ee ee ake oP ror PEL eee ee gl 2
Central America:
WOBtTAMHWICR cease seme cleo sce t ak siceccknecetcocelseec sees
Guahemall gases choca ts oes aoa tebe k oe cates to eels
LGR) 6 ater) eae a meena Sable, prt a EAL ais oN 4
West Indies:
VAD ARG OBS eras este esa a seers eon eae Shoat eee eee nae
(COT aE cee, ees A SRS OCA eee Sean ee gk AR SIRE Sat a EN ee eee

WR eee OW RHO HED Re eww oil a] weore

er te lr) toto | 2 We oe

lavitdline nacre ss oa sein went micoisc nee oboe eee ee. bee eee

Prin dad er seme eee cece ins csc se Soeee oe bee cea Se ee leno ene
South America:
ATeentine Confederatlonmice..sascmisce ce ens cose See ee 4
MS OLA A rae ete adler e eelete ele taleiwie 'e Dinlove Siete Rael S ee eee lente eee
TTR ce dpe Rae aos, ot oo She bay Bon Se AD ee 2
CCV CB IA ed eee prt et pe tl peg Ro 2
Colombia, United States of .....--.-..2.....-...-- 17
(Grae ree re ae ee eS Ade ON ee AP pricy va Rete peers | Daren ret

a

RUC Mayas pee loe sel seme eee ae noe ee CRE ee sone nS ts
Wielezuelaeesnncenssscecnesnacscoeeae sees Se oeeee 2

oN)
or
(\)
ee)
or)
(4)

88 REPORT ON THE OPERATIONS OF EXCHANGES.

z# | &
He | ee
Country. Bw 2 :
oe 4a fo) =
j E 2 = 2 =
/ oS mM B
ASIA:
CHMG.sscei secs Sace taeaicletes ons docncwac escoucees wees lanes boas 3 33
UNG 2 ssc Ses ae eee ee cee Lecloe oe malee soosoneeneeene 17 3 20
Ap IE TA Be Bo ebas bb ccodassn cede oS oS ces sdsoog sect 2 2 4
19 8 27
AUSTRALASIA!
New, South Wales: cc socccncccoccsscec cnccosseweeeicees 2 2 4
News Zealand 22 soc.ceoneacen SL et olen mac eeone noes 2 2 4
Queensland las bu s.55 sce lcakeseecswccescccseCeeeoreees 2 1 =
South -Atistralig.% 3-23 ss cen noe cet sce ee eeelene eee 2 1 3
PLGA ANITA oss Sic eke aleden clean ee corse een eee eee 2 1 33
WWiTOTORIA ec ornos cae eye cose ccaais olan doeieo beet eee 2 3 5
12 10 22
EUROPE:
AUSUPIA-HUNGALY csc anience ecient ers cee cise werenteeees 17 9 26
BOL OTUIN CALS Sco sicce cncelen oe deluisces se soesieeene ce moee 2 9 11
Men Markee sae cates saw stomata aie Se oe Ne ee eee - 2 3) 5
TERIA CO eee eae ee eer eee eet an ay 3 43 46
NGOLIMAN YES oxo oas clemson ccee once ac cme neaeeeee eis 10 68 | 78
GTEAtUB rita rear care sees cree ite ne re aera neta 2 57 59
GCC COR ee en ee eae Tee ae Rie, cate es aot ee 2 3 5
TcelandiGrith Denmark) s.-5.cseeso2 cee sews oS cee cee aeecesasleseseee Reece
Migly pes eees se Goeccsaecc sceees est secien cc ccccse shane 2 14 16
ING UH OnISN OS eae e ree re eae eee eiddeces peepee ee 2 5: 7
INOIW Siac sas ca cckls cc sae le wsis'sicls sasisteoieade welaces colee 2 3 5
IROnte calesce ees ineee cn aoe eee eon aoe ence mee 2 4 6
MVUSAI Ae actin e misee rer ae See eee aes cee eee eee 2 6 8
PAIN eee Nhe et cocia sci emacs we ceidlemesuiee see sree 2 5 ve
FSR t (at 1 aps OE e Pe TREES Fe a UD Te eigte dt a Saree pope a RA Ee 2 6 8
Switzerlandsece sss ssaclce ced cece neds cece cere 2 9 1k
MUTKOYje. o> <sc-isins Releatensscte scene soca coc aciewaeene 2 3 5
56 | 247 | 303
POLYNESIA:
Sandwich islands2ss-cnceesscces ecco eeele enn ee eee Ceeeeeee 1 1
RECAPITULATION.
ATTICA. Seb ae coe ee hee eats eivle Sa cite SSE Ee Oe Een eee eee 7 af
PATINOTI Gs eae oe ee eel es Soe ee eee ee 35 27 62
FARIA ose ee shan cen So At ca ane nen Meee eee Le 19 8 27
AMISET ALAS 5 cots else, ctlene ere here ee eae ate a ee 12 10 22
MTODO se aa ews pote sc cece eee ou eacios Senco eee eee ene 56 247 303
POLYNESIA) 522) Ne be ede eee eae eee eee oer ee ee oe | te eae 1 t
Otel a oe isct Sc ee Se cae CoRR eee ee eee eee 122 300 422

Transportation companies.

The agents of a number of transportation companies have continued
to grant free freight on the boxes and packages bearing the Smithsonian
stamp. These companies are:
REPORT ON THE OPERATIONS OF EXCHANGES. 89

Anchor Steamship Company (Henderson & Bro., agents), New York.
Atlas Steamship Company (Pim, Forwood & Co., agents), New York.
Bland, Thomas, New York.

Cameron, R. W., & Co., New York.

Compagnie Générale Transatlantique (L. de Bébian, agent), New
York.

Cunard Royal Mail Steamship Line (Vernon Brown & Co., agents),
New York.

Dallett, Boulton & Co., New York.

Dennison, Thomas, New York.

Hamburg-American Packet Company (Kunhardt & Co., agents), New
York.

Inman Steamship Company.

Merchants’ Line of Steamers, New York.

Netherland-American Steam Navigation Company (F. Cazeaux, agent),
New York.

New York and Brazil Steamship Company, New York.

New York and Mexico Steamship Company, New York.

North German Lloyd Steamship Company (Oelrichs & Co., New
York, and Schumacher & Co., Baltimore).

Pacific Mail Steamship Company, New York.

Pacific Steam Navigation Company, New York.

Panama Railroad Company, New York.

Red Star Line (Peter Wright & Sons, agents), New York.

White Cross Line (Funch Edye and Co.), New York.

In addition to the above transportation companies, a number of for-
eign consuls have consented to receive and transmit Smithsonian ex-
changes for their respective countries as follows:

Carlos Carranza, New York, to Argentine Republic.

Charles Mackall, Baltimore, to Brazil.

C. de Castro, New York, to Chili.

Hypolito de Uriarte, New York, to Spain and Cuba.

Francis Spies, New York, to Ecuador.

D. W. Botassi, New York, to Greece.

Jacob Baez, New York, to Guatemala.

M. Ravpo, New York, to Italy.

Samro Takaki, New York, to Japan.

Juan N. Navarro, New York, to Mexico.

Christian Bors, New York, to Norway and Sweden.

Henrick Braem, New York, to Denmark.

Gustav Amsink, New York, to Portugal.
90 REPORT ON THE OPERATIONS OF EXCHANGES.

The following is the shipping list at present used in the transmission
of the Smithsonian exchanges:

Country. Shipping agent.

PALTRY Sane ne ct ome a eeicte eet Compagnie Générale Transatlantique, New York. Transe
fer made by the French Commission of Exchanges in
Paris, France.

Argentine Confederation -...| Consul Carlos Carranza, New York.

AML OWAl (2 2 Joe cate siaistacetcis Thomas Dennison, New York.
Austria-Hungary ........... North German Lloyd, Baltimore.
Loto) Paki eo Seeca.cnedou re Red Shas Line, New York; White Cross Line, New
York.
Brag 22 ass seecccscecle~ cisiss Consul Charles Mackall, Baltimore.
British America ..........-.| Baltimore and Ohio Express Company.
British Guiana o... co4- = Transfer made in London by Smithsonian agent.
Cape Colonies... -----..--.-. North German Lloyd to Smithsonian agent, London,
England.
Ch eee cece suineoaces Consul C. de Castro, New York.
China eassessese tenes: Salter & Livermore, New York.
Colombia, United States of..| Consul-General Lino de Pombo, New York.
Costa ica ioc. tose ce eases Pacific Mail Steamship Company, New York.
PUB aaa saceremenvaceneatenae Consul-General Hipolito de Uriarte, New York.
MEnMArk: veces ccesower cease Consul Henrick Braém, New York.
Dutch iGuianaicssase cso ece Thomas Bixby & Co., Boston, Mass.
Mast Indtaysnc22. sassce ase North German Lloyd to Smithsonian agent, London,
England.
PICUAMOR toss sacs eee sees Consul Francis Spies, New York.
1 irfag 0) Hee ea eee a pester es eye S. L. Merchant & Co. New York.
BumMlandewecseca cues sere cee North German Lloyd, Baltimore, to F. A. Brockhaus,
Leipzig, Germany.
Vane =ooeeew sotacese see eee Compagnie Générale Transatlantique, New York.
Qornian ; North German Lloyd, New York or Baltimore.
SS ara eerie ot rs Hamburg-American Packet Company, Ney ee
: North German Lloyd, Baltimore or New York.
Groat Britam..-..--.----- ; Cunard Royal Mail Steamship Line, New York.
Greece. fen eac ttenias ose. D. W. Botassi, consul New York.
Guatemalas< 22222 222552. - Consul Jacob Baez, New York.
ayy: ccecisccasccccece esas Atlas Steamship Company, New York.
Ncelan@etcentanccessescesimece Consul Henrick Braém, New York. Transfer made by
Smithsonian agent in Copenhagen, Denmark.
Maly cee so seco cease sietinis Consul-General M. Raffo, New York.
DAPAN es oa0s es szce ee ewes aes Consul Samro Takaki, New York.
MUP OM Ase sost: aclsretowe See ec America Colonization Association, Washington, D. C.
Madoran scsscvece scceee
Malta moet aspects sess = North German Lloyd to Smithsonian agent in London,
Mauritius: == s-s-2s-s02- England.
Mozambique........:-...-
IMOXICO).2s5e sales Goaeee esas Consul Juan N. Navarro, New York.
Netherlands. oo... 22sec. i
Bch olanidindies ken Consul R. C. Burlage, New York.
New Caledonia 52 ..2--..5.35.. North German Lloyd to Gordon & Gotch, London, Eng-
land.
New South Wales. .......... R. W. Cameron & Co., New York.
Newetealang secs. coos cee R. W. Cameron & Co., New York.
POM asain oseimom ad ...-.| Joseph S. Spinney, New York.
Philippine Islands ...-...... Spanish consul, San Francisco, Cal.
Polynesia: j-s<'eso= ons ss esse Consul Severance, San Francisco, Cal.
(Porthos teacnte sce belcs seae Consul Gustav Amsink, New York.
Queensland 222... 2- 5252 2-- North German Lloyd, Baltimore to Queensland Depart-
ment, London, England.
BAIT T TE a AA ee ea Hamburg-American Packet Company, New York.

Transfer made by Russian consul-general, Hamburg.
St. Helena..................| North German Lloyd to Smithsonian agent, London,
England.
REPORT ON THE OPERATIONS OF EXCHANGES.

of

Country.

ee es

Sweden and Norway..-.---..-
Switzerland ....2--.+.-.----
Pyllawercscecste ste ees caes
Masmanian ss sa ecles saws oe oe

Turke

Uruguay
Venezuela
Victoria

CENTERS OF DISTRIBUTION.
AN OTA ee eps celosclae's aiars is 5s
Argentine Republic. -.-.......

Austria-Hungary
Bel Cine se eceaone otssaee:

British America
British Guiana

we ee ee sew ewe
i)

Colombia, United States of. -
Costa Rica

ASL CL Aye elses seca cease
GHA ORE ee oc eens
UDF) Qe ees sec eugene eee Soee
Finland
France

Se

Germany
Greatibritamsseeejecee sao
Greece

ee

Hayti

eet eee eee ew ee wee eee

Manritiusheeses ooccs cee eee
Mozamibiquesssseeneeae en
Mexicoy-eteemieeeen Sean

eee eee wees

Now, Caledonia ess. .25..
New South Wales... .....-.-
New Zealand
Norway

Shipping agent.

R. W. Cameron & Co., New York.
Consul Hipolito de Uriarte, New York.

-| North German Lloyd to Smithsonian agent, London,

England.

Consul Christian Bors, New York.

North German Lloyd to Consul von Heymann, Bremen,
Germany.

Presbyterian Rooms, New York.

North German Lloyd to Crown agents for the colonies,
London, England; or G. W. Wheatley & Co., 156
Leadenhall street, London, England.

Ottoman Legation, Washington, D. C.

Wilson & Asmus, New York.

Consul W. H. T. Hughes, New York.

Dallett, Boulton & Co., New York.

R. W. Cameron & Co., New York.

Commission Frangaise des Echanges Internationaux,
Paris, France.

Museo Publico, Buenos Ayres.

Dr. Felix Fliigel, Leipzig.

Commission Belge des Echanges Internationaux, Brus-
sels. .

Brazilian Commission of International Exchanges, Rio
Janeiro.

McGill College, Montreal; Geological Survey, Ottawa.

Observatory, Georgetown.

William Wesley, London, England.

Universidad, Santiago.

United States consul-general, Shanghai.

National Library (Commission of Exchanges), Bogota.

Universidad, San José.

R. Universidad, Habana.

K. D. Videnskabernes Selskab, Copenhagen.

Koloniaale Bibliotheek, Surinam.

William Wesley, London, England.

Observatorio, Quito.

Institut Egyptien, Cairo.

F. A. Brockhaus, Leipzig, Germany.

Commission Frangaise des Echanges Internationaux,
Paris.

Dr. Felix Fliigel, Leipzig.

William Wesley, London.

Bibliotheque Nationale, Athens,

Sociedad Economica de Amigos del Pais, Guatemala.

Secrétaire @’Etat des Rélations Extérieures, Port-au-
Prince.

Islands Stiptisbokasafn, Reykjavik.

Biblioteca Nazionale Vittorio Emanuele, Rome.

Minister of Foreign Affairs, Tokio.

Liberia College, Monrovia.

William Wesley, London, England.

William Wesley, London, England.

William Wesley, London, England.

William Wesley, London, England.

El Museo Nacional, Mexico.

Bureau Scientifique Central Néerlandais, Harlem.

Bataviad’sche Genootschap van Kunsten en Weten-
schappen, Batavia.

Gordon & Gotch, London, England.

Royal Society of New South Wales, Sydney.

Colonial Museum, Wellington.

K. N. Fredericks Universitetet, Christiania.
92 REPORT ON THE OPERATIONS OF EXCHANGES

Country. Shipping agent.
Philippine Island..-..-...-.. Royal Economical Society, Manila.
Polynesia ......- Snoto oSSnce Royal Hawaiian Agricultural Society, Honolulu.
Oru eal cnc aoecem see nea ee Escola Polytecnica, Lisbon.
Queensland 22na 2. -se-i-= sae Government Meteorological Observatory, Brisbane.
Russia ..........---.-------| Commission Russe des Echanges Internationaux (Im-
perial Public Library), St. Petersburg.
Stay Holena cece ve ecsee-ece William Wesley, London, England.

South Australia... .........:
SPalnee see See eo oe nee

PWOdens 2.5: oe asec toes nee
Swatzerland:-2 osc. seecaness-
PR ASM ANIA aoe eae oe eee
digien bY bee ee eee
soricsslandyesca scene ee. ase
WOne7TIOlAe ses ss oct osccisces
Wi CCORIA cE eco eeeee soe bcsieicee

Astronomical Observatory, Adelaide.
Real Academia de Ciencias, Madrid.
William Wesley, London, England.

K. 8. Vetenskaps Akademien, Stockholm,
Hidgen. Bundes Canzlei,
Royal Society of Tasmania, Hobartton.
Scientific Association, Port of Spain.
Public Library, Grand Turk.
University, Caracas.

Public Library, Melbourne.

Bern. “

2. Domestic transmissions.

List of packages received by the Smithsonian Institution from Europe and distributed to the
following named institutions and individuals in the United States and British America.

ALABAMA,

Tuscaloosa:

Geological Survey of Alabama... -..
Montgomery :

Statedabrarys 9-2. sce \- sees ese

ARKANSAS.

Little Rock:
MaRtOARDIREY ees ees hac ve

CALIFORNIA.

Mount Hamilton :
lick Observatory --<--.2-22<- --..
Berkeley:
University of California. ..........
Sacramento:
Agassiz Institute ................-
Agricultural and Horticultural So-
CIOL pas soe etia els as cceeerle ce
Inmigation|Sarveyi----52--+-2-a--=-
Medical Society ....-....... See!
State Agricultural Society ........
Histewuibrary: 22.2 o2ecos<cnseece
San Francisco:
Altai @alifomia 2522 soccsecsss cee
Bancroft Pacific Library -..--...---
California Academy of Sciences-...
California Historical Society ..---.
Corporation of the city of San Fran-

Geographical Society of the Pacific
Geographical Survey of California.

~

aon = & 0

—
Onn =

Governor of the State .........--.-.
Health Department....-.....--.--.
Lick Astronomical Department Uni-

versity of California... -.-....---.
Mercantile Library Association -.--
Microscopical Society -..........--
Office of the Lick Trust .!.....-.--..

COLORADO.

Denver:
Governor of the State. ............
Territorial Mibrarye) sees cesses

CONNECTICUT.

Hartford:
American Philological Association.
Connecticut Society of Natural
Nab VO Ae es Gemma Gooe sea
Hartford Medical Library.-.-....-...
Historical Society of Connecticut --
Library Young Men’s Institute-.-.-.
Middletown:
Wesleyan University ....--..-.---
New Haven:
American Journal of Arts and
SCION CBE sea ae sae eie sae me aioe
American Oriental Society .....-.--
Connecticut Academy of Arts and
ScienCese-eesee eee po ea ee

| New Haven Colony Historical Soci-

GUN fea ac

ee bw

ee
REPORT ON THE OPERATIONS OF EXCHANGES.

Observatory of Yale College

Sheffield Scientific School......-...

State Board of Agriculture....... ‘

Winchester Observatory .--.--.--..

Winks CMU 55 234 obe6e5 aousedocse
Newington:

Private Observatory ......-.-.....

DELAWARE,

Wilmington:
Delaware Historical Society

DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.

Georgetown:
Georgetown College .-...........-
Observatory of Georgetown College.
Washington:
Agricultural Department -........
Anthropological Society ......-..-
Army Medical Museum...-....--..
Belgian Legation.................
BoardoiHealthressas-secssc ss sees
Bo famie Gardens ciess sso se ses
Consus DuLeatea= - oss sec ees eee
Ghinese Wegation=<22 2... .--.s-—~<
Chief Signal Office, U. S. Army....
Coast and Geodetic Survey....--..-
Columbian University.............
Cosmos Clubtsss-cetes2escsceseass
Education, Bureau of ...... ..-.-.
Engineer Bureau, U. S. Army.....
Entomological Commission. ..... -.
HIShs COMMISSION) S2-4-)2o5 ese -ss-
Hrench Megation... 2.) J5- 6. essa.
Geological Survey of the Territo-

Geographical Surveys West of the

LOQthyMeridianyssses eee see sene “
Hydrographic Office ..25 2222 .2225<
IndexsMediensasesen ec aceee eee ee
Indian Commissioners ...-....-..-.-
Interior Department (exclusive of

DURE AUS) ivciaeecceccineie sce se eee
WaWALOM Ce ese ake saicsae accel et
Library, of Congress) 2225 550.222...
Light-House Board: 722. ule sue:
Marine Hospital Service -......--.
Medical Association (American)...
Medicine and Surgery, Bureau of.-.
Mintabureamy eee. ules S et ol
National Academy of Sciences..-..-
National Museum -.-.. 22. ....6.-..

Naval Observatory). 2. /.02222.22<
Navigation, Bureau of ............

12

Navy Department (exclusive of bu-
TOANS) Fo sc oie selects Crem eaciie eel

Ordnance Bureau, U. 8. Army ..-.-
Patent/iOficeras 2 seca wecsee cn
Smithsonian Institution........-..
State Department ................

Statistical Bureau of Treasury De-
PakomMenbess esse olecels
Surgeon-General, U. S. Army ....-
Treasury Department (exclusive of
UTCAUS)! est Steele oe sesso ss meee
War Department (exclusive of bu-

Washington Philosophical Society -

FLORIDA.

Saint Augustine:
Historical Society of Florida...-...

GEORGIA.

Savannah:
Historical Society of Georgia....-..
StateiIbibrary <-222. soc. tacos

ILLINOIS.

Aledo:
Mercer County Scientific Associa-

Carbondale:
Southern Illinois Normal Univer-
BOY os Sete tree ce sonsscseueesse
Chicago:
Academy of Sciences..............
American Antiquarian ...--..-..-.
Astronomical Society ......-..---.
Board:ot; Trade. -csoreccencs cre se
Chicago imiesh=nss-\oesees ee eee
Corporation of the city of Chicago.
Dearborn Observatory .-...-....--.
Eistorical Society a=------c-4 se
Museum of Natural History-.-..-.-.
Natural History Society ..........
Public iibraryca-eee eee ee ee
University of Chicago .........--.
Galesburg :
Lombard University ....--..--....
Madison:
American Pomological Society ....
Normal:
State Laboratory of Natural His-

Rockford :

Rockford Scientific Society....-.-.
Rock Island:

Augustana College ....-.....-....

co - ~!
BFP OrFWwWW OW RFR KS WD

a
94 REPORT ON THE
Springfield :
Geological Survey of Ilinois......

State Library

INDIANA.

Evanston :
Northwestern University ......-...
Indianapolis:
Bureau of Statistics and Geology -.
Geological Survey of Indiana.-....
State Board of Agriculture........
Richmond:
Scientific Association
Greencastle :
Indiana Asbury University-....-.--
Bloomington :
Indiana University

IOWA.

Ames:

State Agricultural College.......-.
Davenport:

Academy of Natural Sciences......
Decorah:

Norwegian Lutheran College......
Des Moines:

Geological Survey of Iowa

Governor of the State. ............

Historical Society

State Library
Dubuque:

Dubuque Observatory

Iowa Institute of Science and Arts-
Fort Dodge:

Private Observatory.............-
Iowa City:

Iowa Weather Service

Private Observatory ..........-.-.-

University of IJowa.....----..----.

State Historical Society of Iowa ..

KANSAS,

. Baldwin City:
Baker University: <c-.ce sctmccces
Lawrence:
Kansas Historical Society. ........
State Wniversity-----3'55--s.5--25
Topeka:
Kansas Academy of Sciences
Kansas Historical Society. ....-...

anew

KENTUCKY.

Frankfort:
Geological Survey of Kentucky....

Lexington:
Kentucky University

OPERATIONS OF EXCHANGES.

—y

mw ow

—
ore

Louisville:
Corporation of the city ..-.-.-....-.. 2
Historical Society of Kentucky.... 2

LOUISIANA.

Baton Rouge:
State University:..- <<... << cccace 1

New Orleans:
Academy of Sciences.....-.--.-.... 3
Corporation of the city....---.-.-.
Fiske Free Library
Statesenalbranyi ess. «ss ccslena== eae
State Universtty,.5---. .oc<ce ose e~s

me me © OO

Brunswick :
Bowdoin College
Historical Society of Maine .......

Norway:

High School and Academy .... -... 1

Portland:

Portland Society of Natural His-

ee ee

Work mstitmteesss-)sees seers 1
Waterville:
ColbyaUmiversibyj--c-s-c-ee ee eae it
MARYLAND.
Annapolis:
Saint John’s College ....-......-..

United States Naval Academy .-... 3
United States Naval Academy Ob-

~_

REINA, Sopot aoone conasaoesese 1
Baltimore :
American Journal of Chemistry- -. 3
American Journal of Mathematics - Zl
Ciby Milbrany eeeseee sae ar 1
Corporation of the City....-.-.-.- 2
Johns Hopkins University -..---.. 26
Maryland Academy of Sciences.... 3
Maryland Historical Society ...---. 9
Peabody Institute .--...---..-..-. 20
Philological Association of Johns
Hopkins University ....----.---- 1
MASSACHUSETTS,
Amherst :
Amherst College .--. .-..--.-.-.--- 4
Observatory of Amherst College... 1
Boston:
American Academy of Arts and Sci-

CHGS eerie tity Jod SO BOE Wan. ceaC 185
American Gynecological Society... 4
American Oriental Academy ....--- 2
American Social Science Associa-

tons eees bese ass Sor ecce a aah ee 3
REPORT ON THE OPERATIONS OF EXCHANGES.

American Statistical Association ..
American Unitarian Association...
Appalachian Mountain Club..-.....
Archeological knstitute of America.
Athenee uM ses ese oot e cio ese
iBostonvlospitalycecss 225 cheese
OSDON PUSt sees oes eI oe mice ae 8
Boston Public Library.......... ..
Boston Scientific Society -.........
Boston. Society of Natural History-
Bowditch Institution ......-......
pow abehwlnbnaty ease seco sess
Oibysb brary 2 cca: <a ean <tc a0
Commonwealth of Massachusetts. -
Corporation of the city -.........-
Handel and Hayden Society-......
Legislature of Massachusetts......
Massachusetts Agricultural College
Massachusetts Historical and Gene-
slogical.Socieby .<--- 5.222 8.2%
Massachusetts Horticultural Soci-
ebysesck. SoU BAS Koso Cosa Saco none
Massavhusetts Institute of Tech-
MLO RE as Ss ot soos Suet SeS, -
Medical and Surgical Journal.....
New England Historical and Gen-
ealogical Society..-.......-.....
Public Free Library .......-......
Science Observer ....
State Board of Agriculture........
State Board of Health.............
DUALOMULDRARY ceric coseismic etc e ae
Cambridge:
American Philological Association.
AtlanticuMonthly 0.32222). 6 sa. z
Etymological Club ‘‘ Psyche” .....
Geological Survey of Massachusetts
HarvardiColleges! eo lesb suo kt
Harvard College Observatory.... .
Museum of Comparative Zoology..
Peabody Museum)... 212222 .5.22. a
Cambridgeport :
Private Observatory...-..........
Jamaica Plain:
Bussey Institution............ aise
Salem:
American Association for the Ad-
vancement of Science ...........
Essex Institutes. oe. s.5 .2ktSs ee
Peabody Academy ................
South Hadley:
Mount Holyoke Seminary Observa-
LOD yeeee ieee tapeee wea ec hee ee
Williamstown:
Astronomical Observatory ........

22

ay
Onwnnnwrworre

See Oe eo me

Worcester:
American Antiquarian Society ....

MICHIGAN.

Ann Arbor:

Geological Survey of Michigan....

Observatory ccoss seeks eee

Society of Agriculture ....... ae

University of Michigan............
Battle Creek:

High School Observatory .........
Coldwater:

Michigan Library Association. ...-
Detroit:

Historical Society of Michigan....

Detroit Observatory ...........---

Public habratys 2) sscsessen sees

State Agricultural Society ........
Grand Rapids:

State Agricultural Society ........
Lansing:

Lansing Scientific Society.........

State Agricultural College........

State Board of Agriculture -.......

State Board of Health ............

State Library 200042 een.

State Medical Society.............
Ypsilanti:

State Normal School Observatory...

MINNESOTA.
Duluth: :
Scandinavian City Library........
Minneapolis:
Geological Survey of Minnesota...
Minnesota Academy of Sciences...
University of Minnesota ..........
Northfield:
Carleton College Observatory .....
Saint Paul:
Academy of Natural Sciences.-.-....
Chamber of Commerce............
Historical Society of Minnesota ..-
Minnesota State Library..........

MISSISSIPPI.

Oxford:
Observatory of the University of
Misaissipyiy sooo ttre
Jackson :
Mississippi State Library..........

MISSOURI.

_ Columbia:
Laws Observatory ....-..----.-.-.

95

11

_
Bm woo

ae

= Ore
96 REPORT ON THE OPERATIONS OF EXCHANGES.

Glasgow:
Morrison Observatory............-
Jefferson:
Missouri Historical and Philosphi-
CallSoclebyie: sss sees eoeeeneee
State Board of Agriculture.......-
SHRUG) ID eae aia Gap oro cooeeace
Kansas City:
Kansas Review <-oos.2242 vacscss an
Rolla:
Geological Survey of Missouri -....
Bchoolsof Minesisc <<) osc<isoeeeuisn
Saint Louis:
Academy of Sciences ..............
Corporation of the city ...........
Emigration Society .........-...-.
Mercantile ‘Larbrary,-- << o2-.--.0)-=1-
Missouri Historical Society -......
Peabody Academy --...-..........
Public bibraryyecceesmes\oeiteeeesce
Public School Library ............
Repulbligantesscelesas seam sleceate
Washington University...........
Washington University Observa-

Lincoln:
Nebraska State Library....-.......

NEBRASKA.

Omaha:
Nebraska Historical Society. ...--.

NEW HAMPSHIRE,

Concord:
New Hampshire Historical Society -
Hanover:
Dartmouth College ........ ......
Shattuck Observatory ..--........

NEW JERSEY.

Elizabeth :
Elizabeth Observatory..........-.

Hoboken :
Stevens Institute of Technology -.
Mount Holly :
Burlington County Lyceum of His-
tory and Natural Sciences ......
Newark:
New Jersey Historical Society. .-...
New Brunswick :
Geological Survey of New Jersey- .
New Jersey Natural History So-
ClOby Ato eae tos poe seaoee

= —
Sore WO

Oe Oro

—

wn

—

ve)

—

cis)

12

Princeton:
Museum of Geology and Archzol-
OLY as Aewel eee kine eee sateses
College of New Jersey .-.-....-.-...
Halsted Observatory. -..----. ...---
John C. Green School of Science
ODSErvAtory :22-5~ 6 --senecmcees
Observatory of Princeton College -
Trenton :
State Board of Agriculture -......
State Ditbrary 22.2 o20occceae sees

NEW MEXICO.

Santa Fé:
Historical Society of New Mexico -

NEW YORK.

Albany:
Albany Instituter- 22) se-ceesaces
Adirondack Sunveyj>ossee-eeoeees
Dudley Observatory ---.....-.----
Mercantile Library ...-......... -.
New York Medical Society ....---
State Agricultural Society -...-....
State Commissioners ....- ....-..-
State Wibrary! 3.-22csscccacesseeres
State) Museum <5. -)--ceeeseeeisees
State University .<-.---s0.<--=cee-
Alfred Centre:
Alfred Observatory, .--.-csssse- 2
Brooklyn:
Brooklyn Librarye--- css=<e >see
Corporation of the city ......--.-.
Private Observatory .........-----
Long Island Historical Society ....
Buffalo:
Buffalo Historical Society... -.--.-.
Buffalo Practical School .....-.---.
Buffalo Scciety of Natural. Sci-

Private Observatory of Henry Mills-
Private Observatory of James W.
Wardieee ssc acne eee a aeeetoa eee
Clinton:
Litchfield Observatory of Hamilton
COI Saosoacanceaboses5 cotcoc
Cornwall:
The Cornwall Library... ---\<-ee-
Fordham :
Private Observatory of W. Meikle-
LER Ae Ree Mer eeSee Ter cecei ose
Hastings:
Private Observatory .........-.-.-
Tthaca:
Cornell University =-~.cc-seee-=see

0 wwe

~
_ oO
REPORT ON THE OPERATIONS OF EXCHANGES.

New York:

Academy of Medicine .............
American Chemical Society .......
American Ethnographical Society.
American Ethnological Society...
American Geographical Society..-.
AMETICAMINSUIGNUG =. 52 >= 2+ -sc cen
American Institute of Architects. -.
American Institute of Christian

Eebilosophyiece cet oscse ccc ses
American Metrological Society .-..
American Philological Association.
American Society of Civil Engi-

Anthropological Institute....-....
FAS LODB aD PAL Yeas eo oetcins secs s
Columbia; Colleges... 22-524. <2 5.
Columbia College Observatory ----
Commissioners of Emigration. ....
Corporation of the City......-....
Coopeminstitute-e-<-a-cee = cose oe
Engineering and Mining Journal..
Malis) Journal of Health .-2.5.--.
Iiealth Department-..-.............
Historical Society of New York....
abenoOxbrany ca cseccee sce claws
Mayoriotihercitiy--- meee ee <eeis<
Medical Journal and Library..-.-..
Medicalevecorder ao. se ssscee eee
Mercantile Library Association....
Metropolitan Museum of Arts......
Museum of Natural History .......
New York Academy of Sciences...
New York Handels Zeitung -...-...
New York Herald: <2 2's. acccets.
New York Historical Society ......
New York Literary and Philosoph-

IC MESOCIELYA saci ee woe oe anesce
New York Medical Journal......-.
New York Medical Record ........
New. Yorkabimes se fcc ue etcldnse

Observatory, Central Park ........
Popular Science Monthly .........
Presbyterian Review ...:.........
Private Observatory of L. M.Ruth-

ELfOrdnee tease ses Ses o ec aes

Scientific American ...-........<..

United States Sanitary Commission.

University of New York...........
Phelps:

Red House Observatory...........
Poughkeepsie:

Society of Natural Sciences

H. Mis. 26——7

—
io)
DBAWDnvNvDOrF NHYWNHWHOrR NDR DOH WWW A

wo

i
Or wv

no

oe \}

WassariCollege: 2 icod.0sccezeieces

Vassar College Observatory ..--...
Riverdale:

Private Observatory of W. Meikle-

aM oicn Sete ssc ee en eee se

Rochester:

Warner Observatory ...-.. seeisiaaas
Schenectady:

Wnioni Colleges a: s.ce secre morse
Tarrytown:

Private Observatory of Chas H.

Rockwelleuses-csce se casos ase

Troy:

Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute ..

Scientific! Soclebyecesee ee eeeaeee

William Proudfit Observatory ..-...
Utica:

State Lunatic Asylum ............
West Point:

United States Military Academy -

West Point Observatory ...-:.....
Willets Point:

Field Observatory .--222.-.2=-2--

OuI0.

Ashtabula:
Anthropological Society ..........
Cincinnati:
Academy of Fine Arts ...... ree
Astronomical Society .............
Cincinnati Enquirer....-...-.....
Cincinnati University ............
Corporation of the city............
Historical and Philosoph’! Society.
Mechanics’ Institute..2.-..2 2.22.
Mercantile iaibranyeeessses see eee
Observatory cecss: case een cee
Publicslibranyess-- os cece sears
Society of Natural History........
Cleveland:
Academy of Natural Sciences...-..
Boardiotslealth eens eee eeeee
KartlandySocietyseaces-seesee eee
Columbus:
Geological Survey of Ohio ........
Horticultural Society. ...........,
Private Observatory-..........<..
State Board of Agriculture... ....
StateWubraryna-.2 sees eee a aeeee
Gambier:
Kenyon Collage fos... scesccs os
Hudson:
Hudson Observatory............-.
Linwood:
Private Observatory........-...-.
98 REPORT ON THE OPERATIONS OF EXCHANGES.

Oberlin:

OberlinvCollegeysse= a c< ss seman
Urbana:

Central Ohio Scientific Association -
Yellow Springs:

Antioch College <22 << 5 2c oe ene e

PENNSYLVANIA.

Allegheny:

Allegheny Observatory .----.-----
Bethlehem:

Lehigh University .--.-...:-...--.
Carlisle:

Carlisle Society of Literature. ---...
Easton:

Institute of Mining Engineers...-

Lafayette College.--.-...-.-.--..

Pardee Science School ..---..----.
Germantown :

Friends Free Library and Reading

IROOM eae see nec eeiee eee = ase

Harrisburg:

Medical Society of Pennsylvania-. -

Second Geological Survey of Penn-

Rylbyn Coon soedao oo naedoobe odes

State Agricultural Society ..-.--.-

Stator nlonalsyes sacle eee eal
Haverford :

Haverford College Observatory -.--
Media:

Delaware County Institute of Sci-

American Entomological Society--
American Naturalist ..-...--..-.-.-
American Pharmaceutical Associa-

UNIO S2ue Se ou besaShpnocouedtepese
American Philosophical Society - --
Boandvosse alii bese seers sei la
Board of Public Education....-...-.
Board of State Charities ..---....-
iBoardtor rade ease enase erate
Central High Sehool...........-..
Central High School Observatory - .
Corporation of the city...-...-.----
Pram Km SEV Ube. s<sjeimjaetossiep= ele =
Geological Survey of Pennsylvania.
Girardi@ollereaen..-)tee =n s-e ee
Historical Society of Pennsylvania.
ibrary, Company sss. ss-i-e1e= ==
Library of Pennsylvania Hospital.
Medical Rimessas.- ese ee an sce
Mercantile Library ---.-.-..-.--.-...
Min senimite esses eee eeiee ZS

10

me ©

Numismatic and Antiquarian So-

ClObYy = 5-5 osc —cias geese oneratare =
Observatory esos see ee eer
Observatory of Girard College-...-
Renn Mombibygss tess losses eres
Philadelphia House of Refuge.--- -
PhiladelphiasPress\s--4)- see eeeee

Philomathean Society ..-----.----
Polytechnic’ Bulletin-- 22-5 2-------
State Medical Society ..-..-...-....
University of Pennsylvania ......-
Wagner Free Institute.......--..-
ZoolosicallSociety---=-)-eee nls si
Pittsburgh:
Mercantile dibrary 2-5. 5-— =
Wilkes Barre:
Wyoming Historical and Geolog-
icaliSoclety 2s: a. s2 eee) soa sees
RHODE ISLAND.

Providence:

American Nattiralist...... Sigteae
Athen BUM) oho ces seen eae sae eee
Brown: University, ..2222---4---ee-
City Registrar's Ofice==-=--22--—-
Rhode Island Historical Society-. -
Seagrave Observatory ....-.-------
State Registrar of Births, Marriages,

and: Deaths 4252.2 aso eens

SOUTH CAROLINA.

Charleston:
Literary and Philosophical Society
OL South Carolina sects ei sate
South Carolina Historical Society

TENNESSEE. -

Knoxville :

Philomathesian Society .----..----
Lebanon:

Cumberland University -....---.---
Nashville:

Private observatory ---.------.----

Tennessee Historical Society ------

TEXAS.
Chapel Hill:
Souléiumiversitive seem 2222-2
VERMONT.
Barnet:
Vermont Historical and Antiqua-
Tian SOCIETY cosce = =< meee esas
Burlington :
Fletcher Free Library .--.-.-.-------
Wniversiivie. 9-442 seee eee a
Castleton :
Orleans County Society of Natural
SClENCESHa- -eners eels aeereeeetle

_
Owe RR KB VW he = |!

ar

vo

—"
SB Oe & Dw W

~~

a
REPORT ON THE OPERATIONS OF EXCHANGES.

Montpelier:
State Wibrarye ve 2s anctoo ss sees
VIRGINIA.
P. O. University of Virginia:
Wniversity of Vireinia 2525.22.22.
Hampton:
Hampton College -... ...--.--.....
Lexington:

Virginia Military Institute........
Richmond:
Historical Society 2... 2-2 <<: <-<-
Medreali@ollegeme. sate. sess
Medical Society ..--... .. setsemiae site
DUSLORGIDTALY .2e assess ose sce
Virginia Historical and Philosoph-
ACRE COLYeesee see eee osen eee
Williamsburg:
Eastern State Lunatic Asylum.....
WEST VIRGINIA.
Wheeling:
Natural History Society..........-.

WISCONSIN.
Beloit:
Geological Survey of Wisconsin ....
Inmansville:
Scandinavian Society ....-...-...-
Madison :
State Agricultural Society .........
State Historical Society ...--......
Washburn Observatory..---.---.-.
Wisconsin Academy of Sciences....
Wasconsimslniversitiy,---- -s..--s6\-
Milwaukee:
Academy. of Scicnces..-...-2.. 2...
Natural History Society ...........
Neenah:
Scandivanian Library Association.

WASHINGTON TERRITORY.

Olympia:
Lerritonial Library.--<..-=5.'.5-220
WYOMING.
Cheyenne:
Perritorial library... .2ssoece sso. ~

BRITISH AMERICA,

Hamilton (Ontario):

West Canada Scientific Association -
Kingston (Ontario):

Botanical Society of Canada ..-...

Kings College. ayes aes paar s i
London (Ontario):

Canadian Entomological Society -.
Montreal (Quebec):

Canadian Medical Record...--...-

wnree

Canadian Medical and Surgical
JOUPDB <2)2 ewe aeies 28 Ae iat BoE

Entomological Society ............
Geographical Society .............
Government of Canada ........_. :

MeGrli@ollege: +o... ca eee nse
Medical Association of Canada ..--
Natural History Society. ...-.....-
Numismatic and Antiquarian Soci-
OUNCE SUS SHES Ce tate nea ie aye Bi
Société d’Agriculture du Bas Can-
BOD eases ec so neh nese seem
Ottawa (Ontario):
Academy of Natural Sciences..----
Department of Agriculture... ..__..
Field Naturalists’ Club........._--
Geological Survey of Canada ....-
Eibrary of Parliament 22. oe
Observatories in the Dominion..-.
Quebec (Quebec):
Chronicle’. 2255 2530 ae Lee ee
Geographical Society ......:.-...-
Historical Society ...... ..--.....25:
Historical and Natural History So-
C16by Os Jo ee ees
Laval University 2-0 ae
Library of the Province of Quebec.
Literary and Historical Society .. .
Literary and Philosophical Society -
Naturaliste Canadien. ............
Observatory.) i822 < 59
Parliamentary Library ...........-
Toronto (Ontario :)
Board of Agriculture of Upper Can-
it eee an stash etn d ak
Botanical Society. 2225/0 80e eee
Canadian Entomologist ..-.......-
Canadian Institute ..............-

BES (tet hope oat eee ee,
Entomological Society ............
Evening News ...... He hlee
Geological Commissiog of Canada .-
Library and Historical Society ..--
Magnetic Observatory ............
Meteorological Office.............-
Meteorological Observatory .....--
Parliamentary Library ............

99

SC et a Ya

21

i"
m= 0 OD et m= 09

_
—~_e Ow Oe

1 Soo em

QO =

ee OC — War Coat al We Tt
100 REPORT ON THE OPERATIONS OF EXCHANGES.

Publiesbibrary loc. '- Candcodens b'4ts 3 NEWFOUNDLAND.
Age eS sR Ce a i Mt OT cai 2 St. John’s:
University of Toronto............- 2 Geolonal ‘ f
Diniveraity College 1 eological Survey of Newfound-
Sa ia aa 1and)-.2.. cereale Se credoeese eevee 2
NEW BRUNSWICK. Legislative Library. .-:.-....-.2.. 1
Fredericton:
University of New Brunswick ..... 1 NOV ASECOME.
St. John: Halifax :
Natural History Society......-....- 1 | Nova Scotia Institute of Natural
Life Association of Canada........ 1 SIUC Gontiss cotpescosecanneoce 8
General summary.

No. of | No. of
addresses. | parcels.

(a.) Societies:

PAV ADAM tecasn ee oe ae eete Steer oe ae eae ae clot Reeie ote aia ee eres 2 2
PAT KANGA Sake hoe re eee ane ol yk ae oneal Mes ats he meee 1 4
California. aves Soon ce kes he oe ee i er neces ate aa ae 21 154
BD e) Fhe Ws ae a en ee a SOULE M rt Wee SEI Shree 2 1 1
COlOTAD ORS eae ere 8 MP) a Cena ALE Ut: Ps Nepeere 2 3
Connecticut ee ee ee ee a Ad ee 16 975
Mistrictior: Columbia. 4- oe ss eee ee ae aes 47 2, 902

onic apse spas eis is eee oe ria oe Ee ee aie area et ae 1
Georgia assasteccu sean sszince Sascccoe 2 4
VINO eee ae ee eee eye ral 127
1 GGY SIE yp en pa eo neg Lia Ee A erate 2 7 22
SO Weare at are ice nate a cic un epeee mA waamtestecs ee 14 127
Kansaseeese- eas epee nie Giaie oie era, Sle oimiae lela S adie ss Sieieieh weloctemtaciae 5 14
INGRone loyal ot alors Sots cee eek cons Sn eee 4 8
MV OUTSTaT Beas tote eee Sire tlc cece ont oe caine ae nee te ee nne 6 45
MAINO eee eee ete eine ene na oid BE re Ui che ein ee ee 6 33
Maryland oe asi ct sss eacic's o's Saves mec eyewischeSciene Ce semiameees 12 77
Massaclimsetise et samccc coc s else micecys ate craic erates oe ee ee 50 972
BUCH SANs cose coke -seulds wane cdecscisse pace leie ie nemeieere 18 80
TVD TTY SCOUT Le cee RE Pees ee RE WR EMEC Dp atch AEH te BEL 9 25
MIGHIBSIPPT ook) foc bok bee nde ce cews sca bee seeeeoe 2 2
MISSOUL pee ee Se bath SHEARS 19 227
MON ban Geico cnc nicer cic ck wie) ciciaino apace eee oe nae eee 1 1
Nebraska . aye REN ae a c cs 1 1
Ne wWARISINPSINTO chee 3s... ace ottess 2S de aos eee 3 13
INOW ETSOW Hore ons of ete narod hoyse sate bce des Sloe 13 51
News Mexi¢ose. sere ae: A L 1
NeIw MOLK oso at es ecc Bah eee ei 754
0) snare seein eer bhew <b Bier Ae ee ge ey eee a ee i Bae e 26 129
Pennsylvaniaieisencen Meso ee are eae ee eee 49 702
Hhoterlslands=202— ae ee ae ee Xs ; 7 27
Somthe Carolin a sas tees a ere ee eee 2 2
MENNESBCOS2 as Noes STA SS SE ee ai 28 2 te ee ee 4 4
TRO SCO 8 oS Sie se. aes Eh Te Me Ree ee ee ara Pe Se 1 1!
Wiermon ty 56 oe ee ee ed ee aie he ee ee 5 45
VPI a! Co tn SS LR: oo DOs CSR ee sags Aes ee eee en 9 18
ORG LV ETE IBIS co coos Se 5 in ceioe Be eee 1 2
IVVSISC ODS Selo) Sea cease as eee ee eo ee ne 10 145
Washineton-Territory *.22sc26<s2~bc canon cocemeeee rose ees 1 1
Wyoming ...,. cata Aer eee ere ee 1 1
BritishvAMerics)s2c< cacti 2 ociclaoesicsccr tease eee an owes 60 179
543 7, 192
(5.) Individuals .............. eB HOOROUC CUR OC SCO GTddiso Scatmsosee 399 1, 167

EAA baa Ape pestis se Ea 947 | 8,359
REPORT ON THE OPERATIONS OF EXCHANGES. 101

The decrease as compared with 1881 in the parcels sent under do-
mestic exchanges is due to the fact that the statistics of that year in-
clude a large number of parcels left over from 1880. At the clcse of
the year 1881, however, all accumulations had been worked off, and not
one package remained on hand, so that the figures in the present re-
port represent the actual receipts and transmissions for this year only.
The receipt of packages for 1881 was 7,890, and for the present year
8,359, thus showing an actual increase of 460 parcels, that is, a little
above the average increase (400 per year) for the past ten years.

The total number of packages transmitted compares with former
years as follows:

1873. | 1874. | 1875. | 1876. | 1877. | 1878. | 1879. | 1880. | 1881. | 1882.

Total addresses of institutions ....... 463} 462} 329} 316) 392) 292} 444) 385} 600) 548
Total addresses of individuals....... 266) 288) 281) 32% 374) 370) 341 560} 454) 399

Total numberof parcels toinstitutions | 3, 676} 3, 221! 3,619) 3, 705] 3, 868) 4,059) 5, 786) 4, 021) 7, 086) 7,192
Total number of parcels to individuals 906} 1, 105| 1, 042} 1, 148] 1, 094, 1, 233) 1, 185) 1, 566) 1, 347) 1, 167

Total number of parcels........ 4, 782) 4, 326) 4,661] 4,853] 4,962) 5, 292) 6,971) 5, 587) 8, 433) 8, 359
Recapitulation.

Hotaladdresses| of inctitmtionss2.\./2 s/t. soe etelsisecis ooo oe asl so eos aes 548
mhotalvacdresses OL Individuals. =) cc-\co cnn sss been e scteel ore cle nelscineeicaein ers 399
otalmumper/ Ol. AGATessesin.s.ccas cise sce asincieciseied Seca sl aoe ee Ee aol
MOotalnumber of parcels) to imstijutlons=--- se -.- ese cecemscciseeesecees-m ecient 7, 192
Movaliaomberofpparcels\ta individuals: .- 22-6 coer sete eee sae eee aceon 1, 167
Motalinumber ofsparcelss..2 s-ciesee ioe Se ace sees ea ae BE eee 8, 359

The history and condition of domestic exchanges, from their com-
mencement to the present time, are exhibited in the following table:

For institutions and
individuals in the
United States and
British America.

Received for the Smithsonian library.

Year.
Parts and | Maps and
Volumes.;| pamph-| engrav-| Total. |Addresses. Packages.
lets. ings.

TG4G-185 0 Fee cee == 470 624 4 NODS esrseiseue alee areca se
ASSL eRe see cee 549 GUSH peeeeeceee UU Sy il Pee AIS | Pees eeu ee
dS a Ss ies ee ete ye 1, 481 2,106 1,749 5, 336 96 637
1853/28 cee tos cen: 1, 440 991 125 2, 556 160 1, 052
1BH4 cee sene sce ean: 926 1, 468 434 2, 828 149 987
[SSO cee eseise ee eeise se 1, 037 1,707 26 2,770 219 1, 445
16 a6)- Sa secmscmmaen: 1, 356 1, 834 140 3, 330 189 1, 245
DEY BAAR aU RES cnecee 555 1, 067 138 1,760 193 1,273
TSS ess se ees 723 1, 695 122 2,540 243 1,539
102 REPORT ON THE OPERATIONS OF EXCHANGES.

For institutions and
individuals in the

Received for the Smithsonian Library. United Rintesand
British America.
Year.
Parts and | Mapsand
Volumes.| pamph-| engrav-| Total. |Addresses-|/ Packages.
lets. ings.
WSO be erence cooe 1,271 4,180 220 5, 671 335 1, 908
SGU eas ss clenseisisiaine 821 1,945 120 2, 886 274 1, 406
NBG 2 ota scteclssse nace 1,611 3, 369 55 5, 035 | 27: 2A iliok
M863 oS ee feces wsiacies 910 3,479 200 4, 589 27 1,522
SGA meee soe ee eee 823 2,754 109 3, 686 299 2, 482
EGO eR ees eee 767 3, 256 183 4, 206 345 2, 368
W866. eset Sea tise ce 1,243 | 4,509 121 5, 873 329 2,703
PEG Eee seccieite ones 1, 557 3, 946 328 5, 831 347 971
Teo Ree Ee a ae 1,770 3, 605 134 5, 509 436 2,394
RSGQU Rr Ne socaas. 1, 234 4, 089 232 5, 559 501 4,130
DS TORS Sae toa ssieisics 2k 1,113 3, 890 179 5, 182 567 3, 705
SGN Pe cee pee ete 936 3, 579 82 4, 597 573 3, 952
ES72 SS eacisce ees 1, 262 4,502 198 5, 962 587 4, 635
SWB Ss eee sees eas = 889 4, 354 454 5, 697 659 4,782
i heye eee a ee aaa 863 4,521 162 5, 546 750 4, 326
ARTs Lp ie Ba 1, 120 5, 813 114 7, 047 610 4, 661
SOS seer ees: 1, 017 6, 193 375 7, 585 644 4, 853
NOG Secs Pesce ace 1, 889 6,511 326 8, 726 766 4, 962
1878 sees 1, 263 7, 392 74 8, 729 662 5, 292
POT OES eS eae: 1, 949 8, 071 183 10, 203 785 6, 971
PRGO Sosa a ule 1, 143 7,275 152 8, 570 945 5, 587
1 holo Ease eee 1, 867 9, 904 188 11, 959 1, 054 8, 433
1382 ieee tics Jot ats 1, 296 10, 341 152 11, 789 947 8, 359
Totali 2-5. --2- 38,173 | 132,128 7,119 |» 177, 420 14, 233 103, 124

3. Government transmissions.

On the 2d day of March, 1867, the following resolution was passed
by Congress, tv provide for the exchange of certain public documents:

“Resolved by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
States in Congress assembled, That fifty copies of all documents hereafter
printed by order of either house of Congress, and fifty copies additional
of all documents printed in excess of the usual number, together with
fifty copies of each publication issued by any Department or Bureau of
the Government, be placed at the disposal of the Joint Committee on
the Library, who shall exchange the same, through the agency of the
Smithsonian Institution, for such works published in foreign countries,
and especially by foreign Governments, as may be deemed by said com-
mittee an equivalent, said works to be deposited in the Library of Con-
gress.”

A primary object of this movement was to secure as regularly and
economically as possible all reports and other documents relative to the
legislation, jurisprudence, statistics, internal economy, technology, &c.,
of all nations, so as to place the material at the command of the com-
mittees and members of Congress, heads of Bureaus, We.
REPORT ON THE OPERATIONS OF EXCHANGES. 103

The first transmission under this system was made in 1873, and this
and the subsequent shipments are exhibited in the following table:

|

Year. | 1873. 1874. 1875. | 1876.| 1877.| 1878.) 1879.

1880. | 1881.} 1882. ota

98 | 122

674

| |
i ee era
IBOxes2o222 18 64 : 122|. 73 CER Nees | 35
| | |

|

The receipts from the Public Printer during the year 1882, under
this act of Congress, were 50 copies each of 631 distinct publications,
representing 31,550 copies. The specified list of these documents will
be found appended.

The total receipts for the year, together with some of last year’s ac-
cumlation, form 2 additional boxes for each complete set, which now
represents 17 large boxes of about 260 pounds each.

Distribution of Government exchanges.

: a a | od aa iS o | & i) ras

Country. iy Me lis A Hi | a) pe i cI

eC) iS) CS ° 3) ° iS) 3

ai/ala|a | eI == Wea b= aals"hey| =

|
Argentine Confederation..........-----.-.-- 1875 | 1875 | 1875 | 1875 | 1875 | 1875 | 1877 | 1877 | 1877
(BENT@NE), Gogaessoauae pe sa uadeonseeoscecacsce ce 1878 | 1878 | 1875 | 1878 | 1878 | 1878 | 1878 | 1878 | 1878
1EGIENGH Goo beso coodedohcoceseee peasedecee ----| 1875 | 1875 | 1875 | 1875 | 1875 | 1875 | 1876 | 1877 1877
ISG Vall oodeset ee orescSoecSUCC OL der elnenenaa , 1875 | 1875 | 1875 | 1875 | 1875 | 1875 | 1876 | 1877 | 1877
IBiBMOSPAV TES sacar cee ca eases aaa mlone cea | 1876 | 1876 ; 1876 | 1876 | 1876 | 1876 | 1876 | 1877 | 1877
Crnieey (OnE) Cbeeescoeoodae SodemSpeTosooE 1874 | 1874 | 1874 | 1874 | 1874 | 1875 | 1876 | 1877 1877
ANAC ELORODUO ie ee saaeenne dese ra seers sce 874 | 1874 | 1874 | 1874 | 1875 | 1876 | 1876 | 1877 | 1877
(CUNT <a cd So in Sea S ASE AS SECS DABOCR Co re | 1875 | 1875 | 1875 | 1875 |. 1875 | 1875 | 1876 | 1877 1877
Colombia, United States of 1882 | 1862 | 1882 | 1882 | 1882 | 1882 | 1882 | 1882
TOMS TE fe SAEs Reece ees 87 1879 | 1879 | 1879 | 1879 | 1879 | 1879 | 1879 | 1879
POST UNTO ce snbac ect anpoSa- ota SEEebeb sar ues 382 | 1882 | 1882 | 1882 | 1882 | 1882 | 1882 | 1882 | 1882
IUMIRNEG Sates sade pae Dep OSOS CA AEE S oa taCaeTeS 875 | 1875 | 1875 | 1875 | 1875 | 1875 | 1877 | 1877 1877
(Second! seb) teense oc cee seme eee: 79 | 1875 | 1879 | 1879 | 1879 | 1879 | 1879 | 1879 | 1879
Germany (exclusive of kingdoms specifically

THAT GG hak aciaas adc ASeooC SOOO seHO UP ceuctopees 8 1874 | 1874 | 1874 | 1876 1876 | 1876 | 1877 1877
GreatpSritain 3222s cs ete ec ccecisa ee coee ee 376 | 1876 | 1876 | 1876 | 1876 | 1876 | 1876 | 1877 1877
GTeSCO seen sassvee sc wdacdduvsstsedhosestoce ase 377 | 1877 | i877 | 1877 | 1877 | 1877 | 1877 | 1877 | 1877
HIG il Beane osue mn tonaer SaAesden “Bp BeBaesogesoe “7 1876 | 1876 | 1876 | 1876 | 1876 | 1877 | 1877 | 1877
TERME NT coSe aatommashoeecebee eros sec eegose 882 | 1882 | 1882 | 1882 | 1882 | 1882 | 1882 | 1882 | 1882
shGNN SLC oR Se SASS tn eS seGs doasGnes Nae oeeebor eae 5 1£81 | 1881 | 1881 | 1881 | 1881 | 1881 | 1881 | 1881
PAPA ees sas Seek es ee so as. 57 1874 | 1874 | 1874 | 1874 | 1875 | 1876 | 1877 1877
IMIORI COM ese ese cle Che se esr keen aces Sees 1875 | 1875 | 1875 | 1874 | 1875 | 1876 | 1877 1877
INGEN eHIAN GSEs peee ne mect ee riaetts Sota clan 1875 | 1875 | 1875 | 1875 | 1875 , 1876 | 1877 1877
New South Wales 1876 | 1876 | 1876 | 1876 | 1876 | 1876 | 1877 1877
ING weOolan diy ces Uae wa eee ee: eee calc aec . 7 1876 | 1876 | 1876 | 1876 | 1876 | 1876 | 1877 1877
IN OMWAVtiss see cscs c ees Bee tetra eie ae 373 | 1873 | 1876 | 1876 | 1876 | 1876 | 1876 | 1877 1877
PD LUCA eae tee eet CCU Rave! 875 | 1875 | 1875 | 1875 | 1875 | 1875 | 1876 | 1877 | 1877
TENGE TSSEE ects es ace ep eM orig i 7 1876 | 1876 | 1876 | 1876 | 1876 | 1876 | 1877 1877
Orleensland eae deems yoemne pee eee ics eae: 376 | 1876 | 1876 | 1876 | 1876 | 1876 | 1876 | 1877 | 1877
BUSS 1a eee eee se eA Soc a eS gah ee | 1881 | 1881 | 188L | 1881 | 1881 | 1881 | 1881 | 1881 1881
SAO aves acca eecs coulcedac. seseeecae | 1876 | 1876 | 1576 | 1876 | 1876 | 1876 | 1876 | 1877 1877
Scoelinrelee ese eerste ue es se aeeice 1876 | 1876 | 1876 | 1876 | 1876 | 1876 | 1876 | 1877 | 1877
SonvhyAustralia ced. s: Ss sk eke eos es alt 1876 | 1876 | 1876 | 1876 | 1876 | 1876 | 1876 | 1877 | 1877
Span see wets eau ease woke cccmise cece ames ele, 1876 | 1876 | 1876 | 1576 | 1876 | 1876 | 1876 | 1877 | 1877
SWedlenk ese resect cae ole hee bastions ators 1875 | 1875 | 1875 | 1875 | 1875 | 1875 | 1876 | 1877 | 1877
Switzerland saa soe e cero cease cocceaeicce 1876 | 1876 | 1876 | 1876 | 1876 | 1876 | 1876 | 1877 | 1877
Ras Mania eee seer sacees ehh e se ctee cis nee cee 1876 | 1876 | 1876 | 1876 | 1876 | 1876 | 1876 | 1877 | 1877
Parke yee eee eae Soc eae ae Mesaeececnae 1875 | 1875 | 1875 | 1875 | 1875 } 1875 | 1876 | 1877 | 1877
Wenezmelae rst neee rte sbocc ase ceecssaces 1876 | 1876 | 1876 | 1876 | 1876 | 1876 | 1877 | 1877 | 1877
WiC Conia ee ae ye ese Cet aroniatcladl sateen aioe 1876 | 1876 | 1876 | 1876 | 1876 | 1876 | 1876 | 1877 1877
iWurtemberpes sane cece oe eins Sectelaleare se 1879 | 1879 | 1879 | 1879 | 1879 | 1879 | 1879 | 1879 | 1879

104 REPORT ON THE OPERATIONS OF EXCHANGES.

Distribution of Government exchanges—Continued.

oH
Ss a oi 3 xi iS Ss é Le
re re re ec rt re ec re - O
i 7 4 4 rf M7) Se
i] S i} i} lo} S ° i] a}
aa ioe) = aa ia) a) 6 ia] &
Argentine Confederation.........----------- 1878 | 1878 | 1879 | 1880 | 1881 | 1881 | 1882 | 1882 17
Bavaria .... 22. ccccee cece ence cc cccececccce 1878 | 1878 | 1879 | 1880 | 1 81 | 1881 | 1882 | 1882 17
Belgium.. soconcassetascoce 1878 | 1878 | 1s79 | 1880 | 1881 | 1881 | 182 | 1882 17
jetta ees ere Sapp oOSOd SOCOED CoSsOSsncesas soc 1878 | 1878 | 1879 | 18&0 | 1881 | 18m1 | '882 | 1882 17
Buenos Ayres... 1878 | 1878 | 1879 | 1880 | 18K1 | 1881 | 1882 | 1882 17
Canada (Ottawa) - -| 1878 | 1878 | 1879 | 1880 | 1881 | 1881 | 1882 | 1882 17
Canada (Ontario).-...-----.-- -| 1878 | 1878 | 1879 | 1880 | 1881 | 1881 | 1882 | 1882 17
Chili ssoiesreoss- -| 1878 | 1878 | 1879 | 1880 | 1881 | 1881 | 182 | 1882 17
Colombia, United States of. disle unis ewinjela(cleie siel=)= 1882 | 1882 | 1882 | 1882 | 1882 | 1882 | 18&2 | 1882 17
Denmark. Buctoleleluiciai's|cin'a(alelelsleinln nivi[vsicieinin's/eieteisioleis 1879 | 1879 | 1879 | 1880 | 1881 | 1881 | 1882 | 1882 17
CASH NGI sawn a ciseein ecm wisicien cle siewislesiieian nin 1882 | 1882 | 1-82 | 1882 | 1882 | 1882 | 1882 | 1882 ily
JO TENGE) esos cence goce 26 corneas Seeds 356 5° 1878 | 1878 | 1879 | 1880 | 1881 | 1881 | 1882 | 1882 17
(Second! set) <<< -- << -- sccm - elven sim se 1879 | 187 1879 | 1880 | 1881 | 1881 | 1882 |...--. 16
Germany (exclusive of specifically-named
LATTA) Saag aoepco5a6 soopercdoseesdesce 1878 | 1878 | 1879 | 1880 | 1881 | 1881 | 1882 | 1882 17
Great WHEN So onscoacsusces soca seesosden: 1878 | 1878 | 1820 | 1680 | 181 | 1881 | 1882 | 1&2 17
Greece .o----2---- SSHRC DISS OSD SenOnSSoRdee 1878 | 1878 | 1879 | 1880 | 1881 | 1881 | 1882 | 18&2 17
1s OWA) caecatoocnocoascnsoooneed cesconasecsess 1878 | 1878 | 1879 | 1880 | 1881 | 18-1 | 1882 | 1882 17
Hungary .--...-..--------.sccececa=--\---=<- 1882 | 1882 | 1882 | 1882 | 1882 | 1882 | 1882 | 1882 17
LUA? Se5ence Sac pe ccpeonooeuSIo cao: EbESaednaes 1881 | 1881 | 1881 | 1881 | 1881 | 1881 | 1882 | 1882 17
JAPAD...- 2-2 ~~ 2 cece wen en en nonces- onc ceee 1878 | 1878 | 1879 | 1880 | 1881 | 1881 | 1882 | 1882 17
VIG SH) poo Ses éo se odocdeoc seco sansbscscoce 1878 | 1878 | 1879 | 1&80 | 1881 | 188l | 1882 | 18k2 17
IN Gis FIG Bee oso acecoecddccceesac dae eto“ 65e 1878 | 1878 | 1879 | 1880 | 1881 | 1881 | 1882 | 182 17
New South Wales. Sails atievelatar ete latateteinie eialererei mic 1878 | 1878 | 1879 | 18&0 | 3881 | 1881 | 1882 | 1882 17
IN AAR en AC Senta deoodddonctecesonassscc 1878 | 1878 | 1879 | 1880 | 1881 | 1881 | 1882 | 1882 17
INO Wit Wile eieeieieniaeisesie iersisterstwnictelclatestaisiaiatars 1878 | 1578 | 1879 | 1880 | 1881 | 1881 | 1882 | 1882 17
Tet yh Lee he We Cop aSE coo annciacnasgotoncce 1878 | 1878 | 1879 | 1880 | 1881 | 1881 | 1882 | 1882 17
TH WEG S85 Ao coc jos Sedoor aQoE SoS Hae SA Se 178 | 1878 | 1879 | 1880 | 1881 | 1881 | 1882 | 1882 17
Oncensiand).--e eee eee eee eee 1878 | 1878 | 1879 | 1880 | 1881 | 1881 | 1882 | 1882 17
TEE = soq56 coco sg ned Scot son sSSdascessconss 1881 | 1881 | 1881 | 1881 | 1881 | 1881 | 1882 | 1882 17
Sob CD INysSc coo sosca8 cotcedesonon ssegeseeo 2 sSe 1878 | 1878 | 1879 | 1880 | 1881 | 1581 | 1882 | 1882 Arf
SCOtlan Ce ee eee ee ARTS) STON ISTO eee ste ear lee ites Pak 12
Southey Australideseseme-ceeese se ere asec 1878 | 1878 | 1879 | 1880 | 1881 | 1881 | 1882 | 1882 17
SVE 5 Spee o ose oc Sdo5 HOOnIDon CoSo ne SaSemriosee 1878 | 1878 | 1879 | 1880 | 1881 | 1881 | 1882 | 1882 17
SRUGUEIY 5 = Sassen ccoscSoae Ss -caescccessacscnee- 1878 | 1878 | 1879 | 1880 | 188L | 1881 | 1&82 | 1882 17
Shenae! cas chasse coed cos secdasesasssd 1878 | 1878 | 1879 | 1880 | 1881 | 1881 | 1852 | 1882 17
ALS STIEVIE | oades cb Son Socsbescoscosecasone 1878 | 1878 | 1879 | 1880 | 1881 | 1881 | 1882 | 1#&82 17
PMO S Socsocostnecr coon aU bes SeSCee =e aee 1878 | 1878 | 1879 | 1880 | 1881 | 1881 | 1882 | 1882 17
WienlezOla rc cese sss caee seen seek noe cee et ee 1878 | 1878 | 1879 | 1880 | 1881 | 1881 | 1882 | 1882 17
VA aD, So Soe hoe Socondec ean se eaScuses sacqe08e 1878 | 1878 | 1879 | 1880 | 1881 | 1881] | 1882 | 1882 17
VT CBN? Co Sa acosogecnososnsncogdssascss 1879 | 1879 | 1879 | 1880 | 1881 | 1&81 | 1882 | 1882 17
Totalofiboxesse-< ates see eee Lake e we |[suceee| cease new araleesne see eee DBRS Pas Skt | 674

Three Governments were added to the list during the year, namely:

1. Hungary; depositing the documents with the Prasidium des Konig.
Ungarischen Ministeriums, Budapest.

2. United States of Colombia; books to be deposited in the National
Library, Bogota.

* East Indies; deposited with the Secretary of State for India, Cal-
cutta.

The first instalments of 16 boxes each were made to Hungary, June
10, 1882; Colombia, October 20, 1882; East India, October 20, 1882.

In 1879 the French Commission of ease ercil Exchange requeeeed
that an additional set of Government publications be sent to France,
to be distributed among the various Government departments and bu-
reaus, who in return were to furnish their publications for the use of the
United States Government Bureaus, while the original set was deposited,
together with its continuations, in the National Library. This practice,
however, has been abandoned now, at the request of the French com-
mission, and it has been suggested that, should the various Government
REPORT ON THE OPERATIONS OF EXCHANGES. 105

Bureaus desire an interchange of their respective publications, they
should do so directly without drawing from the allowance set aside by
law for the exchange among Governments.

The following tables show the Government who at present exchange
their publications with the Government of the United States, together
with the establishment designated for the reception of the books and
the shipping agents who have charge of the transmission of the boxes
to their respective distributions:

Governments in exchange with the United States Government.

Establishments cesignated for the reception of Gov-

Governments: ernment exchanges.

Argentine Confederation ....| Minister of Foreign Affairs, Buenos Ayres.

Bavaria ................---.| Konigliche Bibliothek, Munich.

LBEEITI .Sc555 cooaae ooo ose Bibliotheque Royale, Brussels.

JBIRVAU Se ontgoo2oaesen, scene oC Commission of International Exchanges, Rio Janeiro.

BuenosyAyres sess. ose) Government, Buenos Ayres.

Canada, .... ............-.--| Parliamentary Library, Ottawa.

Legislative Library, Toronto.

Chilean eee ase soe ees ces Muséo Nacional, Santiago.

Colombia, United States of..| National Library, Central Office of Exchanges, Bogota.

Denmark....-.......-.------| Kongelige Bibliotheket, Copenhagen.

MASt UNG So. cess esac so soe Secretary of State for India, Bombay.

France ......-.---.-.--.----| Commission Frangaise des Echanges Internationanx,
Paris.

Germany ......-.-.--.-.----| Bibliothek des Deutschen Reichstags, Berlin.

Great Britain..-.-.........-| British Museum, London.

Greece -...........-....-.--| Bibliotheque Nationale, Athens.

Hayti ..........---.......-.| Séerétaire @’Etat des Rélations Extérieures, Port-au-
Prince.

Hungary ....--..--.......--| Priisidium des Kéniglich Ungarischen Ministerium,
Budapest. }

Italy -.....-....-..-..-....-| Biblioteca Nazionale Vittorio Emanuele, Rome.

DaAPAN GE Aue coeeie ses cae seea- Minister of Foreign Affairs, Tokio.

IMGXICOV aaa ao eds Sciets Sac 28 Government, Mexico.

Netherlands: >... Je2<- - =< Library of the States General, The Hague.

New South Wales........-... Parliamentary Library, Sydney.

New Zealand 222 222. -+245 Parliamentary Library, Wellington.

Norway -.......,-.-.-.------| Foreign Office, Christiania.

Portugal -......----..---..-| Government, Lisbon.

RTGS a seo oe sats Be saeeioe's Konigliche Bibliothek, Berlin.

Queensland)s e225 sso5s-c2" Government, Brisbane.

IUSSIA one hemes ce cts Commission kusse des Echanges Internationaux, Bib-
liothéque Impériale Publique, St. Petersburg.

DHaXONyPthoe sec ciaccisa% os ere Konigliche Bibliothek, Dresden.

South Australia --......-.... Government, Adelaide.

HPainyeee- esos ose ss sco Government, Madrid. {

Swedentessssscseeo see ecee Government, Stockholm.

DS Wwitzerlandtereseses see ae Eidgendssensche Bundes Canzlei, Berne.

LAasmMani ges yale sac oceans Parliamentary Library, Hobarton.

unke ye eser eer on de ces Government, Constantinople.

Weneztelariee ese eee neces ee University Library, Caracas.

WiCtorlatese eeeekee ee Cooke Public Library, Melbourne.

Wiirtembersesaos. soe Sees Konigliche Bibliothek, Stuttgart.
106 REPORT ON

THE OPERATIONS OF EXCHANGES.

Shipping agents of Government exchanges.

County.

Argentine Confederation --.-
BAvAlisscorewes eases see cees

ote] Pb RG Sa eee ook

Brazile cctceceieccesicoo ee cone
Buenos Ayres: . = jc--25-45-
Canada ss 2scscn tes eet
Chilites. se see ccs eciaec soe

Prance ee wes sea Heath gees

GErMaNyY: ae. sees sees
Great, britain Neste os see aes
Greece
lentes. AAO SSeS podoosooos

Holland essa. 655 see
lah iAy seseescsss5S5 cose se
Khallyaeanem = oe ante foe er
ADAM cee ssrs crore cetse
IMGXICO\s somisee ee sssiesiee mate
New South Wales .........-
New Zealandc. cece na. oa-
INonwiaiyesseces cece esos aoe
Orbe alee ern cece oe
IENGS Aeem eee ete cee cece:
@ucenslangdes stesso soles

RUSSIA eee Some eee ee

SAROUY Sele Soo ewe set ee

SouthyAnstraliaes-seo-s= see

SPAles ae secs s see
Swedenttencosssse ees aes
Switzerland ce sass eee

TASMAN Ta ese eee eee

Munkeye's~. J -14- ee Bo lee
WeneZUelatec2 sant jae 22
WACTOLIA Saat cere te se eee
Wiirtemberg....-....-

Agent.

Carlos Carranza, Consul-General, New York.

North German Lloyd (Schumacher & Co., agents), Bal-
timore.

Red Star Line (Peter Wright & Sons), New York, and
White Cross Line (Funch, Edye & Co.), New York.

Charles Mackall, Vice-Consul, Baltimore.

Carlos Carranza, Consul-General, New York.

Baltimore and Ohio Express Company.

C. de Castro, Consul-General, New York.

Pacific Mail Steamship Company, New York; Consul-
General Ramon Ulloa, San Francisco, Administrator
Principal de Hacienda Nacional, Panama.

Henrick Braém, Consul-General, New York.

North German Lloyd (Schumacher & Co.), Baltimore,
transfer made in the office of the Secretary of State
to India, London.

Compagnie Géneralé Transatlantique (L. de Bébian,,
New York.

North German Lloyd (Schumacher & Co.), Baltimore.

North German Lloyd (Schumacher & Co.), Baltimore.

D. W. Botassi, Consul-General, New York.

Atlas Steamship Company (Pim, Forwood & Co.),
New York.

Hensel, Bruckmann & Lorbacher, New York.

M. Raffo, Consul-General, New York.

Samro Takaki, Consul-General, New York.

Juan N. Navarro, Consul-General, New York.

Rk. W. Cameron & Co., New York.

R. W. Cameron & Co., New York.

Christian Bérs, Consul-General, New York.

Gustav Amsink, Consul-General, New York.

North German Lloyd (Schumacher & Co.), Baltimore.

North German Lloyd (Schumacher & Co.), Baltimore,
transfer made by the Agent-General for Queensland,
Queensland Department, London, England.

Hamburg-American Packet Company (Oelrichs & Co.),
New York, transfer made by the Imperial Russian
Consul-General in Hamburg, Germany.

North German Lloyd (Schumacher & Co.), Baltimore.

R. W. Cameron & Co., New York.

Hipolito de Uriarte, Consul-General, New York.

Christian Bors, Consul-General, New York.

North German Lloyd (Schumacher & Co.), Baltimore,
transfer made by Swiss Cousul-General H. von Hey-
mann, Bremen, Germany.

North German Lloyd (Schumacher & Co.), Baltimore,
transter made by the Crown Agents for the Colonies,
Colonial Office Building, Downing street, London,
England.

Turkish Legation, Washington, D. C.

C. G. de Garmendia, Consul- General New York.

R. W. Cameron & Co., New York.

North German Lloyd (Schumacher & Co.), Baltimore

REPORT ON THE OPERATIONS OF EXCHANGES. 107

List of official publications sent to foreign governments in 1882.
AGRICULTURAL DEPARTMENT.

Annual Report 1879. 621 p. and pl. 8°. Cloth.
Co-operative Experimenting as a Means of Studying the Effects of Fertilizers, and the

Feeding Capacities of Plants, by W. A. Atwater. 33p. 8°. Paper.

Special Reports of the Agricultural Department:

No. 40. The Condition and Needs of Spring Wheat Culture in the Northwest, by
Hon. C. C. Andrews, of Minnesota. 99 p. 8°. Paper.

No. 41. Report upon the Estimated Production of Cereals in the United States
for 1881. 8p. 8°. Paper.

No. 42. Report upon the Condition of Winter Grain, and upon Numbers and Con-
dition of Farm Animals inthe United States. April, 1882. 82p. 89°.
Paper.

No. 43. Report upon the Condition of Winter Grain, the Progress of Cotton and
Corn Planting, the Rate of Wages and Labor, and Results of Tile
Draining. May, 1882. 20p. 8°. Paper.

No. 44. Report upon the Acreage and Condition of Cotton, the Condition of all
Cereals, andthe AreaofSpring Grain. June,1882. 15p. 8°. Paper.

No. 45. Report upon the Area and Condition of Corn, the Condition of Cotton
and of Small Grains, Sorghum, Tobacco, &c. July, 1882. 33 p. 8°.
Paper.

No. 46. Report upon the Condition of Corn and Cotton, of Spring Wheat, Fruits,
&c.; also Freight Rates of Transportation Companies. August, 1882.
54p. 8°. Paper.

No. 47. Climate, Soil, and Agricultural Capabilities of South Carolina and Geor-
gia, by J.C. Hemphill. 65 p. 8°. Paper.

No. 48. Silos and Ensilage: A Record of Practical Tests in several States and
Canada. 70 p. 8°. Paper.

No. 49. Report upon the Condition of Corn and Cotton, of Potatoes, Fruits, &c. ;
also Freight Rates of Transportation Companies. September, 1882.

8°, Paper.
No. 50. The Dissemination of Texas Fever of Cattle and how to controlit. 1882.
8°. Paper.

No. 51. Report upon the Yield and Quantity of Small Grain, the Condition of Corn
and Cotton, of Potatoes, Tobacco, &c.; also Freight Rates of Trans-
portation Companies. 58 p. 8°. Paper.

No. 52 Report on the Yield per Acre of Cotton, Corn, Potatoes, and other Field
Crops with comparative Product of Fruits; also Local Freight Rates
of Transportation Companies. Nov., 1882. 109 p. 8°. Paper.

Florida: Its Climate, Soil, Productions, and Agricultural Capabilities, by Jas. H.
Foss. 98p. 8°. Paper..

Proceedings of a Convention of Agriculturists held in the Department of Agricult-

ure from January 10 to January 18, 1882. 204 p. 8°. Paper.

NATIONAL BOARD OF HEALTH.
Annual Reports of the Board of Health for the oat 1879, 1880, 1281, 1882.
Bulletin, vol. 3, Nos. 1-52. 4°. Paper.
vol. 4, No.1. 4°. Paper.
Supplement nee 16-19. 4°. Paper.

a

UNITED STATES CONGRESS.
Congressional Directory: First Session Forty-seventh Congress. Second edition. 8°
Paper. Corrected to June 28, 1882. 176 p. 8°. Paper.
Congressional Record: Forty-seventh Congress. Vol. 13, parts 1 to 7, and Index.
(8 vols.) 4°. Half Russia.
108 REPORT ON THE OPERATIONS OF EXCHANGES.

Memorial Addresses:
Ambrose E. Burnside, January 23, 1882. 8°. Cloth.
Matthew H. Carpenter, January 26, 1882. 119p. 8. Cloth.
Evarts W. Farr, December 6, 1830. £4p. 8°. Cloth.
Fernando Wood, February 28, 1881. 40p. 8°. Cloth.
House of Representatives:
Constitution, Manual, and Digest, Rules and Practice, first session Forty-sev-
enth Congress, compiled by Henry H. Smith. 443 p. 8°. Cloth.
Executive Documents, Forty-sixth Congess:
Foreign Relations, No. 1, Part 1. 1,093 pages. 8°. Sheep.
Ordnance Report No. 1, Part 2. 400 pages. 8°. Sheep.
Engineer Report. 3 vols. 8°. Sheep.
Commissioner of Education, 1879. 8°. Sheep.
Chief Signal Office Report, 1879. 8°. Sheep.
Report of Secretary of Treasury. 8°. Sheep.
Paris Universal Exposition. 5 vols. 8°. Sheep.
Offers for carrying the mails. 8°. Sheep.
Public Land Commission. 8°. Sheep.
Navy Department and Post-Office Reports. 8°. Sheep.
Reports of Commissioners of the District of Columbia, 1880. 536 p. 8°.
Sheep.
Account of the United States Treasurer, &c.
No. 1, parts6,7,and 8. (Ex. Docs. Nos. 8-22, 52 to 89). 3vols. 8°. Sheep.
Nos. 24 to 45, except 33. I1vol. 8°. Sheep.
Vol. 18, Nos. 9-66, except 12, 13, 42, 47, 55. 1lvol. 8°. Sheep.
House Miscellaneous Documents: Second and third sessions Forty-sixth Con-
gress. Vols]. and4. 8°. Sheep.
House Reports, Forty-sixth Congress. 3 volumes. 8°. Sheep.
United States Senate:
Paper connected with the naval appropriation bill, for the use of the Senate
Committee on Appropriations. 21 p. 8°. Paper.

Senate Documents: Second session Forty-fifth Congress. Report of the United
States States Coast and Geodetic Survey. 194 pages. 23 pl. 4°. Sheep.
Senate Documents: Third session Forty-fifth Congress. Report of the United

States Coast Survey for the year ending June 30, 1878. 306 pages, map and
appendices. 4°. Sheep. d
Senate Documents: Second session Forty-sixth Congress:
Vol. 1, Nos. 1-53. 8°. Sheep.
Vol. 2, Nos. 54-104, except 59. 8°. Sheep.
Vol. 5, Nos. 181-216, except 208 and 209. 8°. Sheep.
Senate Documents: Third session Forty-sixth Congress and special session March
4, 1881.
Vols. 1 and 3. 8°. sheep.
Vol. 2, part 1 (1,105 p.), part 2 (951 p.), Private Land Claims. 6°. Sheep.
Senate Executive Documents: Second session Forty-sixth Congress.
Nos. 1-50, except 17. 8°. Sheep.
Senate Journal: First session Forty-seventh Congress and special session October
10, 1581. 1750p. 8°. Sheep.
Senate Reports: Third session Forty-sixth Congress. Nos. 726 to 935. 2 vols. 8°.
Sheep.
COURT OF CLAIMS.

Cases decided by the Court of Claims, with abstracts of decisions of the Supreme Court
in Appeal Cases: j
Vol. 16. 698p. 8°. Paper.
Voli hi. > 499 p. 98°.) “Paper.
REPORT ON THE OPERATIONS OF EXCHANGES. 109

History, Jurisdiction and Practice of the Court of Claims of the United States, by
Wn. A. Richardson, LL. D. 29 p. 6°. Paper.

INTERIOR DEPARTMENT.

List of Congressional documents from the Twentieth to the Forty-sixth Congresses,
inclusive. 63 pages. 8°. Paper.
Official Register of the United States:
Voll. Legislative, Executive, and Judicial. 876 pages. 4°. Cloth.
Vol 2. The Post-Office Department and Postal Service. 892p. 49°. Cloth.
List of the additions made to the Library of the Interior Department from February
1, 1881, to September 19, 1882. 4p. 4°. Paper.
Bureau of Education:
Circulars of ]r formation:
No. 1. Organization of Training Schools for Nurses.
No. 2. Proceedings of the Department of Superintendence, 1882.
No. 3. The University of Bonn.
No. 4. Industrial Art in Schools.
No. 5. Maternal Schools in France.
No. 6. Technical Instruction in France.
Bulletins:
Instruction in Morals and Civil Government.
National Pedagogie Congress of Spain.
Natural Science in Secondary Schools.
High Schools for Girls in Sweden.
Annnal Report for 1880.
United States Entomological Commission:
Bulletin No. 7. Insects injurious to Forest and Shade Trees, by A. S, Packard,
jt e2forp. eo. Paper.
United States Geological Surveys Office:
Geology of the Henry Mountains, by G. K. Gilbert. Second edition. 170 p. 4
plates. 4°. Cloth.
R gulations of the United States Geological Survey, 1882. 51 p. 8°. Paper.
Monographs of the United States Geological Survey. Vol.
The Tertiary History of the Grand Cation District, by C. E. Dutton. 264 p. 4°.
Paper.
Atlas to vol. 2.
Annnal Report of the Director, 1880-81. 588 pages, 61 plates, 1 map. 8°. Paper.
Office of Indian Affairs:
Laws and Regulations regulating the Trade with Indian Tribes. January, 1,
1882-313) ops, 60.) eaper:
Annual Report for 1882.
General Land Office : '
Instructions to Special Agents of the General Land Office, issued June 20, 1882.
16p:- 8°. Paper.
United States Swamp Land Laws: Regulationsand Decisions thereunder. April
18; 1882: 15 p. 89. Paper.
Coal Land Laws and Regulations thereunder. July 31, 1882. 7p. 8°. Paper.
United States National Museum:
Bulletin 11. Bibliography of Fishes of the Pacific Coast of the United States
to the end of 1879, by Theodore Gill. 64 p. 8°. Paper.
Bulletin No. 22. Guide to the Flora of Washington and Vicinity. 264 p. 8°.
Paper.
Proceedings of the United States National Museum. Vol 4. 1882. :
United States Patent Office :
Decisions of the Commissioner of Patents, 1881, 537 p. 8°. Paper.
110 REPORT ON THE OPERATIONS OF EXCHANGES.

United States Patent Office—Continued.

United States Statutes concerning the Registration of Trade-marks and Labels, in-
cluding the acts of March 3, 1881, August 5, 1882, and sections 3, 4, 5 of the
act of June 18, 1874, with the rules of the United States Patent Office relat-
ing thereto. Edition of October 1, 1882. 16p. 8°. Paper.

Rules of Practice in the United States Patent Office. Revised April 15, 1882. 92
p. 8°. Paper.

United States Pension Office:

Instructions to Examining Surgeons for Pensions, 1882. 16p. 8°. Paper.

A Digest of the Laws of the United States governing the Granting of Army and
Navy Pensions and Bounty Land Warrants; Decisions of the Secretary of the
Interior and Rulings and Orders of the Commissioner of Pensions thereunder.
272 p. 8°. Paper.

Roster of Examining Surgeons appointed under the authority of the Commissioner
of Pensions. 140 p. 8°. Paper.

General Instructions to Special Examiners of the United States Pension Office,
1882. 44p. 8°. Cloth.

Treatise on the Practice of the Pension Bureau governing the Adjudication of
Army and Navy Pensions, being the Unwritten Practice formulated by Calvin
B. Walker, Deputy Commissioner of Pensions. 129p. 8°. Paper.

NAVY DEPARTMENT.

Register of the Commissioned, Warrant, and Volunteer Officers of the United States
Navy, including the Officers of the Marine Corps and others. January 1, 1882.
208 p. 8°. Paper.

Register corrected to July 1, 1882. 81p. 8°. Paper.

Reports of Officers of the Navy on Ventilating and Cooling the Executive Mansion
during the Illness of President Garfield. 13 p. 8°. Paper.

Statistics relating to the Navies of the World. 16 p. 8°. Paper.

Bureau of Equipment and Recruiting:

Instructions relative to Enlistments, Discharges, &c., of the United States Navy,
1882. 72p. 8°. Paper.

Bureau of Navigation:

Navy Scientific Papers No. 7. Turning powers of ships. 8°. Paper.

Navy Scientific Papers No. 8. Observations for dip. 8°. Paper.

Notes on Navigation, by Commander Harrington. 8°.

Treaties and Conventions between the United States and other Countries, 1873-
1882 (8°.

International Code of Signals (corrected edition). 8°.

American Practical Navigator (Bowditch), revised edition. 8°.

Useful Tables (Bowditch), revised edition. 89.

Hydrographic Office:
Hydrographic notices for 1881, Nos. 64, 66, 67-85 and index. 8°. Paper.
for 1882, Nos. 1-60. 8°. Paper.
Notices to mariners for 1881, Nos. 72, 85, 86, 87, 89, 93-108 and index. 8°. Paper.
1882, Nos. 1-106. 8°. Paper.

List of charts published during the quarter ending March 31,1882. 8 pages. 8°.
Paper.

List of charts published during the quarter ending June 30, 1882. 7 pages. 8°.
Paper.

List of charts published during the quarter ending September 30, 1882. 7 pages.

r 8°. Paper. ;

Charts published during the year:
No. 347. Jamaica.
No. 349. Harbors of Jamaica,
REPORT ON THE OPERATIONS OF EXCHANGES. 111

Hydrographic Office—Continued.
Charts published during the year:
No. 456. Gulf of Yeddo.
No. 906. Wrangel Island.
No. 907. Rodgers Harbor.
No. 908. Rodgers Track.
No. 911 a. Circumpolar chart,
No. 911 6. Circumpolar chart.
No. 912. Arctic Sea.
No. 887. Amazon River, sheet 1.
No. 307. Havana, Cuba.
No. 888 Amazon River, sheet 2.
No. 889. Amazon River, sheet 3.
No. 890. Amazon River, sheet 4.
No. 891. Amazon River, sheet 5.
No. 892. Amazon River, sheet 6.
No. 893. Madeira River, sheet 1.
No. 894. Madeira River, sheet 2.
No. 348. Port Royal, Kingston Harbor, Jamaica.
No. 823. South Pacific Ocean, eastern sheet, lower part.
No. 823 a. South Pacific Ocean, eastern sheet, upper part.
No. 622. Coast of Mexico.
No. 920. Port Malaga, Spain.
Nautical Almanac:
American Nautical Almanac for 1885.
American Nautical Almanac for 1886.
American Ephemeris and Nautical Almanac for 1885.
Supplement to the American Ephemeris and Nautical Almanac for 1881-1884.
Astronomical Papers of the American Ephemeris, part 6.
Astronomical Papers of the American Ephemeris, Vol. I.
Bureau of Steam-Engineering :
Report of the Board on the Mallory Steering and Propelling Screw as applied to
the United States torpedo-boat ‘‘Alarm.”
Report on the vedette boats constructed for British and French navies by the
Herreshof Manufacturing Company.
Annual Report for 1882.
Admiral’s Office:
Annual Report.
Bureau of Medicine and Surgery:
Annual Repert 1880.
Bureau of Provisions and Clothing:
Pay-table of the United States Navy. New edition.
Bureau of Yards and Docks:
Annual Report for 1882.
Naval Observatory :
Astronomical and Meteorological Observations for 1878, 4°.
Appendix 1, 1878: Monograph of the Centrel Parts of the Nebula of Orion. 230 p,
43 illustrations. 4°.
Appendix 2, 1878: Longitude of the Observatory of the John C. Green School of
Science, Princeton, N. J. 54p. 4°.
Meteorological Observations for 1878. 18p. 4°.
Appendix 1. V for1879. Parallax of A Lyre and 61 Cygni. 64p. 4°.
Instructions for observing the Transit of Venus, December 6, 1882, prepared bv
the commission authorized by Congress. 50p. 4 plates. 4°.
112 REPORT ON THE OPERATIONS OF EXCHANGES.

POST-OFFICE DEPARTMENT.

Letters of the Postmaster-General transmitting to the President a letter of special
counsel and the report of Post-Office Inspectors Tidball and Shallcross upon
fraudulent bonds accompanying certain bids and contracts for carrying the
United States Mail. 85 p. 8°. Paper.

Regulgtions to take effect January 1, 1883, for the gnidance of postmasters in the
transaction of the international money-order business between the United
States on the one hand and Belgium and Tasmania respectively on the other.

8p.
Topographer’s Office :
Post Route Maps:
No. 21. Utah.
No. 23. Montana, Idaho, and Wyoming.
No. 26. Oregon and Washington.

PUBLIC PRINTER.
Annual Report for tho fiscal year 1882.
STATE DEPARTMENT.

Commercial Relations of the United States.
No. 14. December, 1881.
No. 15. January, 1882.
No. 16. February, 1882.
No. 17. March, 1882.
No. 18. April, 1882.
No. 19. May, 1882.
No. 20. June, 1882.
No. 21. July, 1882.
No. 22. August, 1382.

SUPREME COURT.

Rules of the Supreme Court of the United States and Rules of Practice for the Circuit
and District Courts of the United States in Equity and Admiralty Cases and Orders
in Reference to Appeals from Court of Claims. Revised and corrected. 74 p.
6°. Paper.

United States vs. John W. Dorsey etal. 152 p. 8°. Paper.

TREASURY DEPARTMENT.

Annual Report of the Secretary for 1882.

Annual Report of the Secretary for 1882, with tables.

Finance report of the Secretary for 1882.

Statement of Balances, Appropriations and Expenditures for 1881.

Combined Statement of the Receipts and Disbursements of the United States for the
year ended June 30, 1881.

Digest of Appropriations for 1883.

Digest of Navy Appropriations for the year 1883.

Estimates of Deficiencies in Appropriations for 1882. (House Executive Document
No. 33, Forty-seventh Congress, first session. )

Estimates of Appropriations for 1834.

Revised Estimates, Treasury Department.

Claims allowed under Balances of Exhausted Appropriations. Act June 14, 1881.
(House Executive Document No. 26, Forty-seventh Congress, first session.)

Claims allowed under act of July 4, 1364. (House Executive Document No. 23,
Forty-seventh Congress, first session.)
REPORT ON THE OPERATIONS OF EXCHANGES. 113

Laws relating to National Banks.
Laws and Executive Orders relating to Alaska.
Receipts and Expenditures of the United States for 1875, 1876, 1877.
Synopsis of Department Decisions, December, 1881, to November, 1882.
Report on Mineral Waters, by Special Agent Tichenor.
Report on the Tariff and Customs Laws and Administration, by Special Agent Tich-
enor.
Report on the Silver Profit Fund, by William Sherer.
Report on Drawback on Sugars, by Special Agent Chamberlin.
The National Loans of the United States from July 4, 1776 to June 30, 1880, by R. A.
Bayley.
Comparative Rates of Wages in the United States and Foreign Countries. (Senate
Executive Document No. 173, Forty-seventh Congress, first session. )
Statistical Abstract No. 4. (House Executive Document No. 133, Forty-seventh Con-
gress, first session. )
Biographical Sketch of the life of Rear-Admiral John Rodgers, United States Navy.
Report on Pleuro-pneumonia by Treasury Cattle Commission. (Senate Executive
Document No. 106, Forty-seventh Congress, first session. )
Report of Commission on the Condition of Winder’s Building.
Decision of the Supreme Court of the United States on Sugar in re Merritt vs. Welsh
et al.
Report of the United States Assay Commission.
Report on the Division of Stationery, Printing, and Blanks, Secretary’s Office, by the
Committee appointed by the Secretary of the Treasury.
Supervising Special Agent of the Treasury Department, Annual Report for 1882.
Supervising Architect: Annual Report for 1882.
Bureau of Engraving and Printing: Annual Report for 1882.
Bureau of the Mint: Annual Report for 1882.
Inspector-General of Steam-Vessels:
Annual Report for 1882.
Revised Rules and Regulations.
Manual of Laws and Regulations.
Laws governing the Inspection of Foreign Passenger Steam-Vessels.
Proceedings of the Thirtieth Annual Meeting of the Board of Supervising Inspect-
ors 1882. Parts 1 and 2.
Bureau of Statistics:
Annual Report for 1882.
Annual Report for 1881, parts, 1 and 2.
Statements Nos. 1-17 of the Annual Report for 1882.
Statements Nos. 26-34 of the Annual Report for 1882.
Advanced Statement of Immigration into the United States for the fiscal year 1882.
List of Merchant Vessels of the United States for the fiscal year 1882.
Report on the imports, exports, immigration, and navigation of the United States:
Second quarter, Third quarter, Fourth quarter, 1881~82.
First quar er 1882-83.
Preliminary Report on Foreign Commerce of the United States for the fiscal year
1882, including report for June, 1882.
Statement of the Foreign Commerce of the United States:
December, 1881. January, 1882. February, 1882. March, 1882. April, 1882.
May, 1882. July, 1882. August, 1882. September, 1882. October, 1882.
November, 1882.
Summary Statements of the Imports and Exports of the United States:
November, December, 1881. January to October, 1482.
Life-Saving Service:
Annual Report of the Superintendent for the fiscal year 1881.

Rules and Regulations of the Board on Life-Saving Appliances,
H. Mis. 26 8

Lie REPORT ON THE OPERATIONS OF EXCHANGES.

First Comptroller of the Treasury :
Annual Report.
Second Comptroller of the Treasury:
Annual Report.
Decisions of the Second Comptroller relative to the pay of officers of the Army
under act of March 2, 1867.
Commissioner of Customs:
Annual Report of the Commissioner for 182.
List of the principal officers of the Customs Service.
Register of the Treasury: Annual Report of the Register for 1882.
First Auditor of the Treasury : Annual Report for 1882.
Second Auditor of the Treasury : Annual Report for 1882.
Third Auditor of the Treasury: Annual Report for 1882.
Fourth Auditor of the Treasury : Annual Report for 1882.
Fifth Auditor of the Treasury: Annual Report for 1882.
Sixth Auditor of the ‘Treasury: Annual Report for 1882.
Treasurer of the United States:
Annual Report for 1882.
Annual Report on the sinking fund debt of the District of Columbia for the
fiscal year 1881.
Annual Report on the sinking fund debt of the District of Columbia for the
fiscal year 1882,
Assistant Treasurer of the United States:
Catalogue of blank books and blanks used in the offies of the Assistant Treas-
urer of the United States in New York City.
Comptroller of the Currency :
Annual Report for 1882.
Annual Report for 1882, with appendix.
Internal Revenue:
Annual Report for 1882.
Annual Report, with tables.
Collection of circulars, specials, decisions, and circular letters.
Report on the condition of the Internal-Revenue Service for the fiscal ) ear 1882.
Revenue Marine: List of officers of the Revenue Marine Service.
Light-House Board :
Annual Report of the Chairman, 1882.
Official announcement of the death of Rear-Admiral R. H. Wyman, Chairman of
the Board.
Laws relating to the Light-House Establishment passed at the first session of
Forty-seventh Congress.
Light-House List Atlantic, Gulf, and Pacific coasts of the United States.
Light-House List Northern Lakes and River coasts of the United States.
List of buoys, beacons, &c.: First to Twelfth Light-House District.
United States Coast and Geodetic Survey:
Summary of the Annual Report of the Superintendent for 1882.
Tide Tables Atlantic coast of the United States.
Tide Tables Pacific coast of the United States.
Marine Hospital Service:
Annual Report of the Supervising Surgeon-General for 1882.
Report on Yellow Fever in Texas.
Medical Officers and Assistant Surgeons of the Marine Hospital Service.

WAR DEPARTMENT.

Official Army Register, January, 1882. 398 pages. 8°. Paper.
Records of Officers and Soldiers Killed in Battle and Died in Service during the Florida
War. 64p. 8°. Paper.
REPORT ON THE OPERATIONS OF EXCHANGES. 5

War of the Rebellion: Official Records of the Union and Confederate Armies. Series
I. Volumes 4and5. 4°. Cloth.

Alphabetical Catalogue of the War Department Library (including Law Library),
Authors and Subjects, 1882. 325 p. 4°. Paper.

Report of an inspection of the Artillery School at Fort Monroe, Virginia, May, 1882.
27p. 8°. Paper.

Regulations of the Army of the United States, and General Orders in force on the 17th
of February, 1881, with an appendix containing all military laws in force Feb-
ruary 17, 1881, not contained in this code. 1,385 p. 8°. Paper.

Adjutant-General’s Office :

Report of Lieut. Gen. P. H. Sheridan of his Expedition through the Big Horn
Mountains, the Yellowstone National Park, &c. 34p. 2maps. 8°. Paper,

Laws, Rulings, and Decisions Governing the Military Crime of Desertion, compiled
by Fred. F. Wilson, 1882. 80p. 8°. Paper.

Subject-index to the General Orders of the War Department from January 1,
1861, to December 31, 1880, compiled by Jeremiah C. Allen. 506 p. 8°
Paper.

General Orders:

For 1881, Nos. 77, 78, 80, 81, 82, 84-89, 92, 93, and index.
For 1882, Nos. 1 to 120.
Orders for 1881, Nos. 67-70, and index. 8°. Paper.
1882, Nos. 1 to 66. 8°. Paper.

Bureau of Military Justice:

Annual Report of the Advocate-General for 1882.

Chief Signal Office:

Professional Papers No. 1. Solar Eclipse.

Professional Papers No. 3. Auroas.

Professional Papers No. 4. Tornadoes.

Professional Papers No. 5. Time Balls.

Instructions to Voluntary Observers of the Signal Service. 108 p. 8°. Paper.

Daily Bulletin of Synopses, Indications, and Facts October, 1877.

Engineer Bureau:

Extracts from the Reports of Decisions of the Supreme Court of the United States
concerning navigable waters, repaying proprietors, bridges, boundaries be-
tween States, eminent domain, title to certain lots in Washington City, con-
tracts, compiled by John G, Parke, Lieut. Col. of Engineers, 1882. 264 p.
8°. Paper.

Professional Papers, No. 23: Report upon Experiments and Investigations to De-
velop a System of Submarine Mines. 444 p. 4°. Paper.

Decrease of Water in Springs, Creeks and Rivers, by Gustav Wex, translated by
Major G. Weitzel, United States Army. 57 pages. 8°. Paper.

Translations of Treatises on Improvements of Non-tidal Rivers, by Maj. William
E. Merrill. 4°. 129 p.

Contributions to the Theory of Blasting or Military Mining, translated by Capt.
C. W. Raymond.

Annual Report 1881. 3 vols., with maps. 8°. Cloth.

Professional Papers No. 24: Report on the Primary Triangulation of the Lake
Survey, by Lieut. Col. C. B. Comstock. 4°. Cloth.

Laws of the United States relating to the construction of bridges over the naviga-
ble waters of the United States from March 2, 1805, to March 3, 1881, compiled
under the direction of Lieut. Col. John G. Parke.

Compilation of Opinions of Attorneys-General relative to acquisition of lands,
contracts, &c., Vols. 1 to 16 inclusive, compiled under the direction of Lieut.
Col. John G. Parke.

Annual Report for 1882. 3 volumes. 8°. Cloth.
116 REPORT ON THE OPERATIONS OF EXCHANGES.

Headquarters of the Army:
Map illustrating the defense of Savannah, Ga., and the operations resulting in
its capture by the Army commanded by Maj. Gen. W. T. Sherman.
Map illustrating the operations of the Army under command of Gen. W. T. Sher-

man, in Georgia,

Annual Report, 1882.

Ordnance Bureau:
Ordnance Notes 173.

174.
175.
176.
ian
178.
179.
180.
181.
182.
183.
184.
185.
186.
187.
188.
189.
190.
101
192.
193.
194.
195.

196.

197.

198.
199.
200.
201.

202.
203.
204.

205.
206.
207.
208.

209.
210.

211.
212.

from May 5 to September 4, 1864.

Machine Guns—Their status in warfare.
Italian 100-ton Gun.
Dephosphorization of Iron and Steel.
Vent Punch and Gimlet.
Friction Primers for Cannon.
Flank Defense.
Infantry Equipments.
Krupp’s Ballistic Tables.
Photography—Gunpowder Analyses.
Field Artillery.
Modern Rifles.
The Attack on Armor-clad Vessels by Artillery. .
Cartridges—Friction Primers.
The National Defenses of England.
Modern Ordnance.
Telescopic Sight.
Army Wagon Transportation.
Mechanical Motion.
Report of Sea-coast Artillery Practice.
Metrical into United States Measures.
The Le Bouleugé Chronograph.
Field Gun Carriage.
On the Metallurgy and Manufacture of Modern British Ord-
nance.
On the Application of Solid Steel to the Manufacture of
Small-arms, Projectiles, and Ordnance.
Notes on the Manufacture of Small-arms, &c., at the Royal
Small Arms Factory. Enfield Loch.
Machine-guns, and how to use them.
Small-arm Firing.
Range and Position Finding—Past and Present.
Report on Cranston’s Safety Lighting Attachment for Lan-
terns for the Life-saving Service.
The Folger-Michelson Densimeter.
The Progressin Naval Artillery from 1855 to 1880.
Firing Investigations of the Steel Works of Frederick Krupp,
made at the Meppen Firing Ground.
The Question of Heavy Guns.
Fire Upsetting Machine.
Torpedoes—Their disposition and radius of destructive
effect.
Recent Experiments with a 11-inch Compound Armor Plate
at Shoeburyness.
A proposed Armament for the Navy.
Type of Armored Vessel and Cruiser best suited to the needs
of the United States.
The United States Steamer Alarm.
Chemical Theory of the Combustion of Gunpowder,

a
REPORT ON THE OPERATIONS OF EXCHANGES. £17

Ordnance Bureau—Continued.
Ordnance Notes 213. The Development of Armor as applied to Ships.

214. Preservation of Wood.

215. The Employment of Torpedoes in Steam-launches against
Men-of-war.

216. The Supply of Ammunition to Infantry on the Field of Battle

217. Wallace’s Intrenching Tool.

218. The Interior Economy of a Prussian Regiment.

219. A Short Narrative of the Afghan Campaigns of 1879-80-81,
from an Engineer’s point of view.

220. Magazine Rifles.

221. Krupp Experiments. e

222. Explosives: Notes on Nitro-Glycerine.

223. Bombardment of Alexandria by the English July 11, 1882.

224. Rifled Howitzers and Mortars.

225. Deviations of Small-arm Projectiles.

226, Fortress Warfate.

227. Training of Garrison Artillery, &c.

228. Determination of the Value of “fC.” Didion’s Formula.

229. Steel for Structures.

230. The Theory of the Gas Engine.

231. Instructions for use of the Frankford Arsenal. Hand tools
for unloading Cartridges.

232. Some Considerations respecting Desertion in the Army.

233. The Theoretical Rifle (El Fusil Racional).

234. Some Thoughts about the Future of our Army.

Notes on Construction of Ordnance:

. Resistance to Décullasement (unbreeching) in Breech-Loading Cannon.
. Recapitulation of Experiments on Cast-steel Hoops.
. Plan of Gun Construction; Cast Iron strengthened with Bands of cold-ham-

mered or cold-rolled Steel.

- Mechanical Tests on the Resistance of Metals.
. Verification of the Hooping for Cannon in the Italian Service.

The resistance of Hollow Cylinders and of Cannon; new studies.
The resistance of Hollow Cylinders and Cannon; new studies.

. Trials of Expanding Sabots for Projectiles; Rifle Muzzle-loading Mortars.
. Resistance of Metallic Tubes, Simple and Compound, with application to the

Construction of Cannon.

. Resistence of Simple and Compound Metallic Tubes with application to the

Construction of Cannon.

. Special Elasticity; Experiments to determine its Value and Deductions con-

cerning its application for increasing the Advantages derived from the
Use of Hoops in Gun Construction.

. Treatment of Steel.

. Fabrication of Cannon in France.

. Experiments on Hooping 9” .45 guns.
15.

Physical Properties of Metals.

Pay Department: Annual Report for 1882.
Quartermaster-General’s Office:
Fuel for the Army, 1882.
Uniform for the Army, 1882.
Specifications for means of transportation of paulins, stoves, ranges, lamps, and

fixtures for use in the United States Army in 1882.

Annual Report for 1882.
118 REPORT ON THE OPERATIONS OF EXCHANGES.

Subsistence Department:
Notes on bread making, permanent and field ovens and bake houses, prepared by

direction of the Commissary-General of Subsistence, by Maj. George Bell, C.
S., U. S. A., with extracts from notes on flour by the same officer. 143. p. 8°.

Paper.
Annual Report, 1882.
Army Ration: Issue and convertion tables.
Surgeon-General’s Office: Index Catalogue of the Library. Vol.3. 4°. Cloth.
United States Geographical Surveys West of the One Hundredth. Meridian:
Final Report Vol. 3, Supplement: Report upon Geological Examination in South-
ern Colorado and Northern New Mexico. 420 p. 36 p. appendix. 4°. Cloth.
REPORT OF THE ASSISTANT DIRECTOR OF THE UNITED
STATES NATIONAL MUSEUM FOR 1882.

Prof. SPENCER F. BAIRD,
Director of the United States National Museum:

Str: I have the honor to submit herewith a report upon the work of
the Museum for the year 1882, in which are included certain sugges-
tions relative to the administration of the Museum, which may at some
future time, either in their present form or with modifications, be recom-
mended for adoption.

Very respectfully,
G. BROWN GOODE,
Assistant Director.
U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM, January 1, 1883.

With the beginning of the year 1882 systematic work in the reorgan-
ization and installation of the collections may be said to have been
fairly commenced. Although something had been accomplished in the
three or four months prior to the above date, the work was, for the most
part, experimental. The year 1882 may, therefore, be regarded as the
first year of the occupation of the new building.

On January 1, 1882, was issued Circular No. 1, containing a plan of
organization and regulations. This pamphlet contains 58 pages, and
in it are defined the limits of each department of work, the duties of every
officer, and the routine to be followed in each kind of administrative
work.*

This code of regulations has been systematically enforced during the
year with consequent important improvement in the efficiency of each
department.

Cases.—Much thought and time have been expended in making experi-
ments for the purpose of ascertaining what forms of cases are most suit-
able for the exhibition of our collections. Old patterns have been modi-
fied and new ones invented. A detailed account of these experiments,
and their results, will be submitted at some future time. Four thousand
five hundred and eighty-six cases and boxes of various patterns have
been received, as specified in the accompanying schedule. They have

*See Appendix to Proceedings United States National Museum, Vol. IV, following
page 534.

119
120 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM.

been, as a rule, constructed by contract after the specifications had been
submitted for competition to a number of reliable firms in Washington,
Baltimore, and Philadelphia. The glass has been imported free of
duty, the locks and other hardware purchased of manufacturers, and
the finishing of the wood-work, the setting of the glass, and the fitting
up of the interiors with shelves, and otherwise preparing them for the
reception of specimens, have been done by a force of men working in the
Museum building, paid by the day or job, as was found in each par-
ticular instance to be more economical and satisfactory.

The adoption of a peculiar style of case, known as the “unit-box,”
for the exhibition of many classes of objects, has rendered it necessary
to employ a number of mechanics in mounting the specimens for dis-
play. In this work several women have been employed, who have
proved to be industrious and skillful.

The following is a list of cases in use in the Museum and for the
most part received during the year:

Case A..(G..3).. Pier uprights,.9! 0 =< 3" 3! 3c We a eee aa 28
(4.4)... Floor uprights, 8! 6" x4" 4M oc 1s aan we eee 1
Bie.) se loon uprights, 367 x0 al ax een eae 30
@(ivj3) nM OOr Seren sO) OO) Ke Tay ee ieee 2 i eee 25
HO (2:2) OOr SCrEBNS yO; Ole ae ah 20 OS No Nn ain lvelnle orl ae 28
Di(L33)., Siding sereens, 8067" x 13! el) <a erctere 55
1) (2.2). Sliding screens, 8! 6" x 27:2" x (ee es sae at
Be Rau ACLOCNS: =~ \ c . -e es sye wes serene on cd See eee 53

F (1.2). Fold screens, half pillar ...-..-...........-.--- 11
Gr Slope Sereens: ).'.. 5 4a < ioe ee ere Sey el sete 1

i Table 1prighs 322.0... es ae eee ae ee eee 21
Tint tables: .0.! f2..)..!-2o Sane, se ee ee eee 91
Sideidas: JUMItOTAWEOES ..- ccc onto ie oe Oe ee ee nee ee 2,490
Ke UG PORES ~ om 5. aids ep shes Menetae eee eee rete 1, 606

ie Wall Wprights.. 2) cee eo ae one tytn rere stein +

We - Gothic alcoves... 2.155. hss. ses ae Sercral MOR oy cece te ates 18

QO. Basement drawer-storage. ........... --.- eee 6

PL Sectional library cases 32.0 op cee ne ee te elas 14

©: Standard Shela-stacks <0 -sracenaeernerian cece 29

R. Standard pigeon-hole stacks ....-. Wee Oe, Ae ae Rlg ate 30

S. Quarter tables ......... AR reat pi shoot Sb, ha SRR 22
TrOPDY CASES) cce s Sete, =e ole eae le al ole oe a
Coste CASON 232 4.4.c5 phere ere =a orate il

4, 586

Labels.—Similar experiments have been made in regard to labels,
many different styles of type and colors of paper and methods of ar-
rangement having been tried. It has been found necessary to employ

SS ae ee
REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 121

a printer to operate the presses belonging to the Museum, and his serv-
ices have been particularly valuable in this work of experimenting.
One of the chief obstacles to the labeling of the collections has been
the uncertainty as to what form of label should be used, while another
difficulty, equally embarrassing, has been experienced in endeavoring to
decide exactly how much descriptive matter might properly and effect-
ively be printed on a given label. Nearly 1,200 objects have, however,
been finally labeled, and this work is rapidly advancing.

Fitting up Laboratories.—Several of the curators’ laboratories have
been fitted up with storage cases and furniture, and are now better sup-
plied with conveniences for work than ever before. Among these may
be specially mentioned those in the departments of birds, fishes, mol-
lusks, insects, invertebrate fossils and fossil plants; and the increased
facilities for work thus afforded to the several curators cannot fail to be
productive of great general advantage to the Museum.

Monthly Reports.—During the year each curator and chief of depart-
ment has submitted to the Director a monthly report of the operations
of his department.

Storage and Archives.—The Registrar, Mr. S. C. Brown, has had in
charge the Department of Registry and Storage, his duties being the
keeping of the registry books, the reception and assignment of packages,
the packing and unpacking of boxes, and the acknowledgment of dona-
tions. He has also had in charge the department of archives. The
storage rooms have been entirely rearranged and a card-catalogue of
their contents prepared, and the records of the year have been carefully
kept, in accordance with the requirements of the new code of regulations,
besides which considerable progress has been made in the work of arrang-
ing in a similar manner the accumulations of past years. The rules for
the administration of collections, as specified upon pages 25 and 26 of
the “Plan of Organization,” already referred to, have been faithfully put
upon trial by the Registrar, and have been found thoroughly practicable
and much to the advantage of the general service of the Museum.

Tibrary.—The Librarian, Mr. Frederick W. True, has successfully
carried owt the regulations and specifications issued in the “Plan of
Organization,” on pages 37 and 38. The establishment of the central
and sectional libraries has been perfected, and a complete card cata-
logue prepared.

The Library is now estimated to contain 5,800 books and 5,500 pam-
phlets.

The Library room has been remodeled and enlarged during the year,
and will now accommodate conveniently at least 10,000 volumes. Fuller
details may be found in the report of the Pibeavian

Publications —Volume tv of the “‘ Proceedings of the National Mu-
seum” for 1881, has been published, under the editorship of Dr. T. H.
Bean. It is a book containing 534 pages, with an appendix consisting
122 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM.

of eighteen circulars (in all 142 pages), explanatory of the work pro-
posed for the Museum. A list of these circulars is here appended.

Pages

No. 1. Plan of organization and regulations: ..2-..'.i..02- 22-22 sccess tecces 58
No. 3. Circular addressed to friends of the Museum --........--.-.---------- 2
No. 3. Circalar in reference to petroleum collections .....:....-...--......-. 2
No. 4. Circular concerning the department of insects........-.---.---.------ 1
No; ‘5. Establishmentiandolitcers 2 asec sees eee celia seen ne eee eee 2
No. 6. Classification and arrangement of the materia medica collections. By

James M. Flint, surgeon, United States Navy ..--..-..--------..----- 2

No. 7. A classification of the forms in which drugs and medicines appear and
are administered. By James M. Flint, surgeon, United States

No. 8. Memoranda of collectors of drugs for the materia medica section of the
National Museum. By James M. Flint, surgeon, United States
NAVY. a:0'<i5,03 sale Se ctr oe Mecealo tals So ccn eee ote cicles ones sdelemicie ee ctereciemira 2
No. 9. Circular in reference to the building-stone collection ....-........---. 9
No. 10. Two letters on the work of the National Museum. By Barnet Phil-

TPS is sino SiS sxe mole melo Sawiaaaw'ee le sno bejese ees tic accepee eee ees eee 10
No. 11. A provisional classification of the food collections. By G. Brown

(ECO ee ooe aero noL BAe nO Or eG Aoaeser sooanecsncbood suasopekedadusice 16
No. 12. Classification of the collection to illustrate the art of taxidermy ....-- 2
No. 13. Outline of a scheme of Museum classification. By G. Brown

GO0d Ossesamer ec cew ie swale aeeeiaa a aeersiee ctcis| comers stories ieee ee ee a atetsiate 4
No. 14. Circular requesting material for the Library ..-.....--..--..-...----- 3
No. 15. The organization and objects of the National Museum ..........----. 4
No. 16. Plans for the installation of collections ..-................---2-..-.--- 2
No. 17. Contributions and their acknowledgment...........---.-..-.--- sss J
No. 18. List of publications of the United States National Museum ........... 12

Bulletin 19 of the Museum, consisting of Mr. Samuel H. Scudder’s
‘“ Nomenclator Zoologicus,” has been published during the year; also
Bulletin 11, consisting of Prof. Theodore Gill’s “ Bibliography of the
Fishes of the Pacific Coast; ” Bulletin 22, consisting of Mr. Lester F.
Ward’s “ Guide to the Flora of Washington and Vicinity ;” and Bulle-
tin 24, consisting of Dr. H. C. Yarrow’s ‘“ Check-List of North Ameri-
ean Reptilia and Batrachia,” complete the list of those published in
1882. Bulletin 23 has been sent to press. Bulletins 16 and 20 have
been passing through the press during the year, but have not yet been
issued.

Dr. Bean has prepared a list of the publications of the Museum, with
indexes. This has been printed in Circular 18, and is of great aid in
the consultation of the matter which has been published by the Museum
during the last seven years. It has not yet been found practicable to
issue, from time to time, as provided for in Section C of the ‘ Plan of
Organization,” the list of accessions to the Museum, although the de-
sirability of such a publication as this is growing constantly more ap-
parent.

Duplicates and Exchanges.—During the year 1882 there were only

————
REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 123

three of the departments of the Museum that attempted any regular
distribution of specimens, viz:

Specimens.

Department of birds ...--..-..- Sompacka roses Os SPECIES a. se eee see oe 892
Department of invertebrates: 30 packagesiiisis-.3.- 2222.20.22) 2css2. 222. 95986
Department of minerals .-.-.--. 30 packages, | 793 species): .=..-. 2-25. <2 5.5 = 995,
ANCOUML Oma sccct ese = = 92 packages se se ete roe aviscntomaa siscoceris ictus 11, 873.

There were also sent from the Museum to individuals and collectors in the
field 312 packages, consisting of single specimens, small lots, and collecting
materials areresating/ OLS SpeCiNlens)..as.. seam = me ola ela eels ie eee os 518:

Makin otinrall a: san oscars essa 2 te nelcn one ciena a etew ones dese c ecco cas se cicer 12, 391

During the year, 102 applications for specimens were received from
museums, schools, and individuals; and of these and previous applica-
tions on file, 98 have been supplied in whole or in part.

The total number of specimens distributed prior to the close of 1882 is.
about 435,000.

Property and Supplies—Operations in this department have been
greatly facilitated during the year by the introduction of two impor-
tant measures.

There is now only one order-book, which is kept in the office of the
Assistant Director, and no supplies, however small, can be obtained
without the filing of a formal requisition specifying the probable cost of
the articles required. The requisitions approved are numbered to corre-
spond with the serial numbers in the order-book, and are filed away for
reference. Every expenditure is thus placed on record, and the sum
total of the prices entered on the order-book, together with the amount
of the regular pay-roll, will, at the end of any month, indicate exactly
the amount of liabilities for the month. A requisition for the hire of
a laborer for half a day is treated in the same manner as that fora
large order of goods.

In addition to this, a property clerk has been appointed to take the
charge of unpacking and cataloguing every article of furniture or supply
received, of issuing the same upon “house requisitions,” and of prepar-
ing a semi-annual report, thereby relieving the Superintendent of the
labor and responsibility of this work.

Mr. C. W. Schuermann was appointed property clerk on July 1, 1882,
and has been efficient in his work. He has submitted perfect invento-
ries of all articles in the several buildings, and also statements of the
exact quantity of each kind of article received during the year, bal-
anced by a report of the quantity of each article now in stock and the
exact disposition of such articles as have been issued upon requisition.

The property clerk has also been charged with the duty of inspect-
ing and reporting upon each article of furniture and all supplies pur-
chased for the Museum.

Accounts.—As heretofore, all accounts have been administered under:
the direction of the Chief Clerk of the Smithsonian Institution, and all
124 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM.

payments have been made through his office. The question of receipts
and expenditures will not be discussed in this report, since it is in-
cluded, as hitherto, in the report of the Executive Committee of the
Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution.

Buildings and Labor.—Under the administration of Mr. Henry Horan,
superintendent of the buildings, the watchmen, mechanics, and the
laborers have rendered exceedingly efficient service. The published
regulations * have been put into effect, and found not only practicable,
but of great advantage in promoting the efficiency of all departments.

There are now upon the permanent roll in this department one
superintendent of buildings, two assistant superintendents of buildings,
‘one engineer, one assistant engineer, three firemen, three carpenters,
two painters, one mason, twelve watchmen, four janitors, twenty labor-
ers, four messengers, and two cleaners.

In addition to the permanent force, several mechanics, chiefly car-
penters, have been working, under the direction of the superintendents,
on the construction and fitting up of cases. It has been found more
economical and satisfactory to build cases in this way than to put them
out by contract, but lack of room has rendered it impossible to do this
except in a fewinstances. The regular employees of the Museum have,
as in former years, been required to wear a simple uniform. The clean-
liness of the building and its preservation in good repair, as also the
general public-comfort service, have been efficiently attended to.

The safety of the collections has been more carefully guarded during
this year than hitherto. The numerous private doors in the old build-
ing have been closed, and a watchman is now stationed at every en-
trance. No persons, except officers of the Museum, are allowed to
carry packages out of the buildings without a written pass, and no
one is allowed to carrry umbrellas or canes into the exhibition halls.
These rules have caused considerable dissatisfaction, both among em-
ployees and visitors; but in my opinion strict custody is absolutely
necessary for the safety of the collections. Even now it is impossible
to keep people from handling and disfiguring objects which are not
covered with glass; and on Saturdays and other holidays it is necessary
to employ a considerable portion of the laboring force in guarding un-
covered objects in order to prevent visitors from carrying them away
piecemeal. One of the worst annoyances with which we have to con-
tend is the mania of the “relic-hunter,” who, devoid of all conscience,
does not hesitate to break off and carry away with him pieces of any
objects that may come within his grasp, especially such as are the more
interesting on account of historical associations. The more precious
the objects, the greater is his greed for the possession of fragments.

The number of persons employed in guarding and caring for the
building seems, at first sight, unnecessarily large, and it certainly is a

*“Plan of Organization and Regulations,” Article CxL (on requisitions), Appendix
No. 1 to Proceedings of United States National Museum, Vol. Iv.

i ii
REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 125

cause of great regret that it should be necessary to expeud so much of
the appropriation in this manner; but experiments, made with a view
to reducing the number of this body, have forced me to the conclusion
that it should be increased rather than decreased.

Electric Service.—The electrical service is being slowly perfected, under
the supervision of Mr. W. J. Green, electrician. Extensive systems of
telephones in the several buildings, as well as at the residences of three
or four of the chief executive officers, have aided in facilitating business,
and have enabled us to dispense almost entirely with messenger boys.

I here present a description of the electrical service as at present.
arranged. In the electrical room of the National Museum are the fol-
lowing articles of apparatus:

One 50-drop telephone switch-board, with 34 connections, 14 of which
are in the National Museum, 9 in the Smithsonian building, and 11 out-
side. There are 5 ordinary electric lamps, and 2 electric lamps for pho-
tographic purposes, with dynamo-electric machine and resistance-box.
There is also a 100-drop annunciator, to which are connected 300 win-
dows and 85 doors throughout the Museum building; 1 large watch-clock
for recording on paper dials the time signals which the watchman turns
in from the 12 clock stations throughout the building as he makes his
_ patrol; and one alarm box of the district Telegraph Company. In the
Smithsonian building there are 9 clock stations, controlled in the same
manner as those in the Museum building, and also a special telephone
connection with the city.

Preparation of Specimens.—The work of the preparators has been ex-
tensive and important. Mr. Joseph Palmer, chief modeller, has been
engaged during a large part of the year in mounting the skeleton and
cast of a humpback whale, 32 feet in length, which now stands in the
south main hall. This is the largest cast of an animal that has yet been
made, and is unique in conception. Viewed from the left side, the visitor
sees the cast of a whale in the attitude of swimming through the water.
Standing on the right he sees the concavity and inner outline of the
half cast, in which against a suitable background is mounted the articu-
lated skeleton of the animal. Mr. Palmer has also made during the
year a number of casts of smaller whales and of fishes, and his assistant,
William Palmer, has devoted several months to making a papier-maché
cast of the model of the town of Zui, which was prepared by Mr. Min-
deleff under the direction of the Bureau of Ethnology. Mr. Wm. T.
Hornaday was appointed chief taxidermist on March 16, 1882. Among
the important objects mounted by him during the year are a young
African elephant, a polar bear, and a cinnamon bear. Mr. Henry Mar-
shall, taxidermist in the department of birds, has mounted about 450
specimens in a very satisfactory manner. Mr. A. Zeno Shindler, artist,
has been employed almost entirely in repainting the collection of fish
casts.

Mr. J. Hendley has devoted much time to repairing broken speci-
126 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM.

mens, and during the past five months has been employed in making
dummies for the display of various costumes in the possession of the
Museum.

Accessions.—The number of packages received by the Registrar dur-
ing the year was 10,045, of which 5,401 were cases and parts of cases
paid for from the ‘furniture and fixtures” appropriation, while 1,287
were received through Mr. Thomas Donaldson from the permanent ex-
hibition on the Centennial grounds at Philadelphia, having been trans-
ported hither in December in seventeen freight-cars. The remaining
3,357 were packages received in the ordinary course of administration.

Number of Visitors.—Since the 8th of February the janitors at the
doors of both buildings have registered the number of visitors by means
of a tally machine, and it has been ascertained that the average daily
number of visitors to the Museum building has been 535, and to the
Smithsonian building, 488. The total number of visitors for the year,
calculated upon this basis, has been, for the Museum, 167,455; for the
Smithsonian building, 152,744.

Lectures.—During the year the Biological Society has held its meet-
ings regularly in the lecture-room of the Museum, and two ccurses of
lectures have been delivered in the same apartment.

The first of these, the Saturday lectures, under the direction of a com-
mittee of the Biological and Anthropological Societies, were given on
Saturday afternoons in March and April. These lectures, eight in num-
ber, were attended by audiences of 500 to 900 people. In December a
course of “ young folks’” lectures, under the same auspices, was begun,
and twelve lectures were delivered. These were attended chiefly by
teachers and advanced scholars of the public schools and seminaries of
the city. Many of these lectures were illustrated by specimens from
the Museum, or have had a definite bearing upon its work, and it is
hoped that they have increased its popularity and efficiency.

The first lectures were delivered in the northwest range, which was
fitted up with considerable care as a lecture-room; but it was soon dis-
covered that this was not large enough to accommodate the audiences
in attendance, and accordingly the west-north range, which is 26 feet
longer, was fitted up, and the old lecture-room abandoned.

The Bautent of the Museum.—An attempt has been made by the curators
of the several departments to estimate the total number of specimens
in the Museum. This estimate is at present only a partial one, but it
may not be amiss to quote its results for the departments which are
sufficiently organized to permit it.

Specimens.
Department) of antiquities... a2c eee oso ee eens eee aiabieie = =e ome = nnetaiale 35, 512
Dapartiment.on mammal spa. ene cecicisc ees oneal eee eneeeiase meine 8, 265
AD Yeyep vanes A OPe 10H) Sees aaah OS pee BL OUBeeeoCOCaa he Shoo Habe ad ceadag Seon ese 44, 354
DoepartmentoLrepuileses-- ele cctec ects oocora eae ements ela siemec(sie seller 26, 258
Department,of fishess*> 2 J-csticc coe. mee lactate ee ee ten al= areal eee 50, 000

Department of mollusks (catalogue entries, it Home impossible to estimate
LH aVs\nanvbereYeve Oe [spol se)) oe soe sce AOCCOS comand Hclo Shs dene dese Blcic 33, 375
’ REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 2%

Specimens.

WepariwientOL Mseciseeseas == 6 secede see erin san == soudecoses Sos about 1, 000
iProtessormiyileyssnpLivabeycollecblonlycs-mecicceee = ae saline emcee cleaeie 150, 000
Department of marine invertebrates....-..--.---- Impossible at present to estimate.
Department of fossil invertebrates ...-....------- Impossible at present to estimate.
Meaparhmentrol minerals ss. --~-2 clas cee ssa elane = Impossible at present to estimate.
Department of rocks and building-stones; in reserve series.......-.--.-. 9,075
Department of metallurgy and economic geology ..-...-.---- Impossible to estimate.

DEPARTMENT OF ANTIQUITIES.

The arrangement of the collections in the department of antiquities,
under the administration of Dr. Charles Rau, is, as it has been for some
years past, more perfect than in any other in the Museum. To this
department will eventually be devoted all of the upper exhibition hall
in the older Museum. At present the upright floor-cases and more
than half of the wall cases are filled with specimens belonging to the
department of arts and industries, the implements and manufactures of
partly civilized races of the present day. These are being removed as
rapidly as possible to the new Museum.

The unexpected delay in transferring the ethnological and industrial
materials to the new Museum has retarded Dr. Rau’s contemplated re-
arrangement of portions of this collection in the upright floor-cases
A few, however, have been emptied, and in these, special mound collec-
tions have been placed, with excellent effect.

During the coming year (without question) an additional number of
these cases will be emptied, thereby providing space for a much more
striking presentation of the relics of prehistoric man than at present.

Embarrassment has also been caused by the fact that prehistoric
objects and modern ethnological and industrial material have hitherto
been entered indiscriminately in the same register, and that, with the ex-
pansion of the scope of the Museum and the separation of modern and
ancient material in the two buildings, these combined catalogues are
very inconvenient. The work of making a duplicate copy of the cata-
logue has already been begun.

Dr. Rau reports the following as the number of specimens at present
under his charge: Total, 35,512, of which 21,217 are on exhibition, 7,748
are in the reserve series, and 6,547 are duplicates.

The total number of accessions has been 3,569, of which 2,554 were
acquired by gift, 353 by exchange and purchase, 511 from explorers em-
ployed by the Smithsonian Institution, and 141 by deposit. Two lots
of duplicates, containing, respectively, 27 and 171 specimens, have been
distributed.

Four papers have been published by the curator of this department
during the year, and in the “Proceedings” of the Museum, volume Iv,
was printed a list of his publications relating to anthropology which
appeared between 1859 and 1882—fifty-two titles in all.

Dr. Rau has been engaged during the year in the preparation of an
128 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM.

extensive illustrated work upon prehistoric fishing in Europeand North
America.

DEPARTMENT OF ARTS AND INDUSTRIES.

When, in 1857, the Smithsonian Institution assumed the custody of
the collection of the United States Exploring Expedition, together with
the miscellaneous material which had gathered around this nucleus, a
great quantity of material was transferred to the Smithsonian building
which has not to this day been classified and placed upon exhibition.
The rapid growth, espécially during the past decade, of the collections
illustrating the ethnology of North American Indians, and especially
of prehistoric objects from this continent, has absorbed the attention of
all who were interested in this department of the Museum. A year ago
the majority of the foreign ethnological objects were, on account of lack
of room, packed up or crowded together in a too limited amount of case-
room. At the close of the Centennial Exhibition the Museum received
from foreign Governments great quantities of material exhibited at
Philadelphia, which, while possessing an undoubted ethnological inter-
est, could not in many instances be displayed in the manner usually
adopted in ethnological museums.

The material received from Philadelphia in 1876 was for several years
stored in the Armory building. On completion of the present Museum
building, and before the collections could be transferred to it, it became
necessary to decide by what method the stored material (other than
zoological, botanical, geological, or mineralogical) could be most effect-
ively classified for purposes of study and exhibition.

After a careful consideration of the methods of the large museums of
Europe, the officers of the Museum agreed that the ordinary classifi-
cation by races or tribes would in this case be less satisfactory than a,
classification based upon function.

In the report of the Smithsonian Institution for 1881, pages 117-122,
and also in circular No. 13, of the National Museum, the Assistant Direc-
tor presented a provisional outline of a plan of classification for the Mu-
seum. This classification, while its purpose was to embrace every kind
of object which could possibly be exhibited in the Museum, was especially
full in those parts which related to the arts and industries, forty-nine.
out of the sixty-four primary classes relating to this group of museum
material. The general idea of the classification, as there explained, is:
that the collections should constitute a museum of anthropology, the
word “anthropology” being applied in its most comprehensive sense..
It should exhibit the physical characteristics, the history, the manners
past and present of all races civilized and savage, and should also illus-
trate humgn culture and industry in all their phases; the earth, its
physical structure, and its products are to be exhibited with special
reference to their adaptation for use by man. The so-called “ natural
history” collections are grouped in separate series, which are to be
REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 129

arranged in accordance with the well-tried methods prevailing in natural-
history museums, and which would, of course, occupy a very large por-
tion of the space and the attention of a majority of the staff, as at pres-
ent constituted, but which, at the same time, should illustrate and
supplement the collections in industrial and economic natural history.

Some experiments have already been made with reference to the feas-
ibility of this plan of arranging the exhibition series, but I am not yet
prepared to recommend its final acceptance.

The adoption of this plan would necessitate the grouping together, in
continuous series, of objects which had never before been placed side by
side in any museum. If the evolution of any given industry or class of
objects is to be shown, the series should begin with the simplest types
and close with the most perfect and elaborate objects of the same class
which human effort has produced.

In the textile industry, for instance, at one extreme is shown the simple
whorl of stone or terra cotta, used by savage or semi-civilized man, to-
gether with the archaic representative of the same, surviving among
rural members of the most highly civilized races; these being supple-
mented by the threads and the simple woven fabrics produced by them ;
on the other hand, the steam spinning apparatus and the power and
Jacquard looms.

Much attention has been devoted during the year to experiments for
determining the manner in which the idea of this classification can best
be carried into effect. It is not possible within the limits of this report
to describe what has been done. In fact a full account of them at pres-
ent would be premature. The practicability of the scheme can best be
judged of by an examination of the one or two groups, such as the
materia medica collection, the collection of musical instruments, and the
portion of the costume collection, which are already partly installed.

The department of arts and industries with the growth of the Museum
will naturally be divided into a number of independent sections, each
under the charge of acurator. In its present partially organized condi-
tion it is under the special charge of the Assistant Director. The sec-
tion of materia medica has, however, been entirely under the control of
Dr. James M. Flint, U.S. N., detailed for this service by the Surgeon-
General of the Navy. Mr. J. King Goodrich has since the first of
November been acting as assistant, devoting particular attention to the
arrangement of the musical instruments and the costumes, while Mr.
A. Howard Clark has been engaged in the reorganization of the section
of fisheries. The section of building-stones and stone-working has re-
cently been assigned to Mr. George P. Merrill.

This department at present occupies nearly all of the northern half of
the Museum building. No assignment of space has been made to
special subjects. The extremely flexible system of cases which has been

adopted permits us to arrange the collections in very small subdivisions.
H. Mis. 26——9
. 130 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM.

The unit of bulk is a glass-covered box 24 by 30inches. When sixteen
of these boxes are filled with specimens and labelled, they are grouped
together by sliding them into place in a specially prepared frame.
When several of these groups have been arranged, if a different order of
sequence seems preferable, the work of re-arrangement can easily be ac-
complished by giving a few words of instruction to a mechanic, who
changes the position of the unit boxes in the screens. We thus have an
immense advantage over those museums which have fixed cases of
large dimension, and which must needs, therefore, assign from the
first a definite amount of space to each class of objects. Our policy has
been to mount objects in the unit boxes as rapidly as small groups could
be brought together, the only limitation being that objects derived from
different races or nations should not be mingled in the same box. By
this means, if at any time a rearrangement by race criteria seems de-
sirable for any special purpose, it can be effected without difficulty. For
instance, let us suppose that all the objects in the department of arts
and industries had been arranged according to function—all the pipes
together, all the weapons together, all the foods together and all the
games and amusements together. If the Eskimo or Japanese objects
are to be studied or lectured upon, it is simply necessary to go through
the halls, and to mark upon the glass front of each small unit case with
French chalk, to withdraw these unit boxes from the screens, and to
close up the gaps by sliding the unit boxes closer together and removing
the screens, which are thus thrown out of use.

It is, of course, impracticable to arrange everything in the unit boxes.
Many other similarly flexible systems of installation are employed which
will be described in a future report.

In the above remarks I have attempted simply to explain the princi-
ple of our methods.

At the end of the year about 500 unit boxes had been filled, and about
500 labels had been printed. The work of preparing descriptive labels
is very laborious, and the subject of labels has received almost as much
study during the year as that of cases.

It is impossible at present to form any estimate whatever of the ex-
tent of the collections in this department. There are over 60,000 entries
in the ethnological catalogues. A large number of these relate to pre-
historic objects which are not assigned to the department of arts and
industries, while great quantities of objects still remain unentered. A
great quantity of others properly belonging to this department are en-
tered in the catalogues of the department of mineralogy and other
departments of the Museum.

The number of entries during the year in the catalogue, exclusive of
archeological specimens, has been 7,875. At the close of another year
the curator hopes to present a careful estimate of the condition and
capabilities of the department.

°
REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 131

DEPARTMENT OF MAMMALS.

Mr. Frederick W. True, assistant curator, has been acting as curator
of this department since January 20, 1882, at the same time perform-
ing the duties of librarian.

The south main hall of the new Museum has been fitted with exhi-
bition cases for the reception of the mounted mammals, and also with
a considerable number of storage cases of the unit-table pattern for the
reserve series of skins. The room at the west end of the south baleony
is used as a laboratory for this department, and the room on the third
floor above it has been assigned for the storage of the alcoholic series:
These rooms are very small, and it has been found necessary to make
use of a part of the south balcony in addition.

Since the mammal hall has been ready for occupation, the entire
time of the curator and one or two assistants has been devoted to trans-
ferring the collections from the old Museum and to their rearrange-
ment. Little attention having been paid to the mammal collections
since 1876, it has been found necessary to devote much time to bring-
ing up arrearages of work, and to inspecting and relabeling almost
every specimen. This work has been very efficiently inaugurated by
Mr. True, who has also nearly completed a preliminary card-catalogue
of the collection arranged alphabetically under genera.

A very effective preliminary display of the mounted manrmals has
been made, and studies have been prosecuted and experiments made in
preparation for a system of full descriptive labels.

The osteological section of the mammal collection still remams in the
east gallery of the lower hall of the old Museum.

The cast of a humpback whale, elsewhere referred to, has within the
past month been finally placed at the south end of the mammal hall.

The number of specimens is estimated by the curator to be 8,265, 4,660
being skins, of which 689 are mounted and on exhibition, 3,535 in the
osteological series, and 70 in the anatomical series.

On page 130 of last year’s report may be found the census of the col-
lection of mounted mammals. The number of entries for the past year
in the mammal catalogue has been 293; in the osteological catalogue,
139.

One paper based upon the material of this department has been pub-
lished by its curator, who has, however, also printed several contribu-
tions to other departments of science.

DEPARTMENT OF BIRDS.

There has been great activity in the department of birds, notwith-
standing the fact that it has been impossible for the curator, Mr. Ridg-
way, to make any changes in the appearance of the exhibition series.
The mounted birds are now displayed on the main floor of the lower
hall of the old Museum and in a part of its western gallery, but the
132 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM.

eases are crowded so fully that no effective display can be made until
the cases in the eastern gallery are emptied of the osteological collec-
tion which they now contain. The cases in this hall are all old and
somewhat unsuitable, and it is hoped that before long they may be re-
constructed. The number of mounted specimens is so great that their
rearrangement is an undertaking of great magnitude, especially since
it involves the transfer of a large proportion of them from the old fash-
ioned white perches, to which they are now fastened, to the improved
pattern recently adopted. It also involved the rewriting and reprinting
of a majority of the exhibition labels, changes in ornithological nomen-
clature having of late years been very considerable. Rearrangement,
therefore, means an immense amount of work, and Mr. Ridgway has
refrained from undertaking it until the whole of the hall assigned to
ornithology shall be at his disposal. The birds in the exhibition cases
are, however, arranged in systematic order, with the exception of those
in one case. Much has been done also in the way of weeding out from
the exhibition series surplus specimens and those which are faded or
badly mounted, the latter being replaced by newly-mounted speci-
mens of excellent workmanship. It is but fair to say that the curator
of birds would have accomplished much more in this department of his
work, had not the fitting up of the new Museum absorbed so much of
the time of our force of mechanics and preparators.

His time has been no less usefully spent in the rearrangement of the
study series, which is nearly eight times as large as that upon exhibi-
tion. This series is arranged in “Salvin” cabinets and other recepta-
cles in the southern half of the west basement and in the two upper
rooms of the south tower, the lower of which has since 1870 been used
by the curator of birds for a laboratory. The necessary inspection of
the collections occupies much time, since they fill 347 drawers, in which
they are often arranged in small trays, three or more layers deep. An
important improvement introduced into this department has been to
line the drawers containing the birds with heavy carbolized paper, as
protection against insects. This same carbolized paper of thinner text-
ure has been used to great advantage in wrapping and packing skins
sent in by collectors from remote localities, especially when part of the
transportation has been by sea.

The collection of eggs which, as is well known, is, so far as North
American species are concerned, the most complete in the world, is
stored in various receptacles in the west basement and in the drawers
of table cases in the ornithological hall. Plans are being made for new
cabinets, in which this great collection shall be arranged.

Mr. Ridgway makes the following report upon the present condition
and general needs of the collection :

Number of specimens.—The collections belonging to the department of birds are at

present divided into nine separate lots or series as follows:
1. The reserve series of smaller North American birds, including the orders Passeres
REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 138

(except larger Corvide), Macrochires (except Humming-birds), aud Picariw (except
genera Campephilus and Hylolomus). These are stored in walnut cabinets in the up
per room of the south tower.

2. The reserve collection of smaller Neotropical birds, including the order Passeres
(except Corvide and larger Cotingide), the Humming-birds (with which are in-
cluded also the North American species), and smaller Picidw (Woodpeckers). These
are temporarily packed in tin herbarium cases in the main upper room of the south
tower.

3. The reserve series of smaller old world land-birds, arranged in a walnut cabinet
in the top room of the south tower.

4. The reserve series of larger birds, arranged systematically, and including chiefly
Gallinaceous birds, water-birds, and birds of prey, but also the larger Corvide and
Cotingidew, the genera Campephilus and Hylotomus, and all of the Neotropical as well
as old world Picarie (except Picide) and Parrots. This, the most bulky portion of
the collection, is stored in twelve large cabinets of the ‘‘Salvin” model (measuring 8
feet in length by 4 feet in breadth and height), and seventeen large chests, and other
cases, in the west basement.

5. The exhibition series in the museum cases.

6. Mounted specimens intended for the exhibition series, but not yet put on stands

7. The duplicate series, stored chiefly in the west basement.

8. The collection of alcoholic specimens, intended for anatomical investigation, also
in west basement.

9. Collections in storage, not yet acted upon.

A summary of the number of specimens contained in these separate series, as de-
termined by a careful inventory concluded December 30, 1882, is as follows: *

Specimens.

ee NOLiN Ameri Can POSELVC SOLOS =< s.s.s0 c's6 ss) sicicicee sais wiciscemiiosee oS - semers see 8, 899
DMNOOLEOPICAL TOSOFVO SOLOS] « -2< 22 sccclssciccesccce cocess “cesses ccecceteee 8,73

MOL AWVOLld TESCLY.C!SCLICE= 2 a2 +122 = sloa nie cisincwsia clo sen isiscine niece eeinciee ea ale 1,294

APL OSely Olseries Of areen DILAS sce case s-'s = sscce else aime ances sae eee eee 8, 259

Rotalireserve Skin) SOLOS. .-- <2 5- scenes nis oe lonescn = sae sseecie oe cere 27,185

5 and 6. Exhibition series (including 161 specimens not yet put on stands).. 5,779

SPAICOLNOMEG BOLIOSiaa ooo at cos cacn se cea sete = Siniacyas sn ee oee a sioen ceeae nets 1, 524

otal reserve SCTIGS.= soos Jaca sencicics cme sess emcee cece ser eeeee 34, 488

Ape) UNC Abe SCLIOS ctr seis sites acl else oe oelalns occ cme oianinwie a apisniaeieiaieiee elevate eee 9, 356

SuUnassorued collection (im sStOTage) - oc ochose ie alesis loess eee 510

Total number of specimens in the collection..........--..-.---------- 44,354

Storage.—The bird collections of the Museum are stored as follows:

The North American reserve collection of smaller birds in ten walnut cases, fitted with
open drawers and loose-fitting sash doors ; two of these cabinets measuring 53 inches
long, 26 inches wide, and 38} inches high; the others measuring 374, 26, and 364 inches,
respectively.

The Old World reserve collection of smaller birds in one case similar to the larger sized
ones containing the North American collection.

The Neotropical reserve collection of smaller birds (except Humming-birds), in eighty-
one old Japanned-tin herbarium cases, 19 inches long, 13 inches wide, and 6 inches
thick.

*The discrepancy between this statement of the extent of the bird-collections and
that contained in tne Assistant Director’s report for 1881, is explained by the fact that
the latter was based merely upon a rough estimate, it being impracticable at the time
to make an actual inventory.
134 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM.

The reserve Humming-bird collection, in a galvanized-iron chest, 30} inches long, 21
inches wide, and 20} inches high.

The reserve collection of larger birds (not classified geographically ) in twelve large ‘‘Sal-
vin” cabinets, each 8 feet long, 4 feet wide, and 4 feet high, with closed, interchangeable
drawers; and in seventeen large chests measuring 464 inches long, 294 inches wide,
and 214 inches high.

The duplicate collection in various drawers, chests, and boxes, or wherever room can
be found.

Desiderata.—It having been the policy of the Museum to make a specialty of Ameri-
can ornithology, the chief desiderata are in consequence principally among foreign
birds. The collections of the Museum embrace, however, tolerably good collections
from Europe, New South Wales, New Caledonia, Polynesia, and Kerguelen Island.
But from Africa, Asia (except Japan and parts of Eastern China), New Guinea, the
East India Islands, Philippines, Tasmania, Madagascar, and the various islands of
the Indian, South Atlantic, and Antarctic Oceans, the Museum possesses little or noth-
ing; while the birds of New Zealand, Western and Northern Australia, the Sandwich
Islands, and Japan, are are very incompletely represented. The most desirable Old
World birds are of course those of the eastern portion of the Palerctic region (Siberia,
Kamtschatka, Japan, etc.), the close zodlogical relationship between that region and
North America requiring a careful and complete comparison of specimens from the
two regions, not only in the case of species common to the two (circumpolar species),
but also of representative species and genera.

There are also still many important desiderata among Neotropical birds, which it is
highly desirable should be secured as soon as practicable. <A full list of these desi-
derata has been published in the “ Proceedings” of the National Museum (vol. 4, pp.
165-203). The total number of Neotropical species of birds known to date, is about
3,800, exclusive of North American species found within Neotropical limits. Of this
number the National Museum possesses no less than 2,225 species, among them being
not a few which are unrepresented in other museums. The national collection is es-
pecially rich in West Indian birds, containing as it does nearly all the known species
of that interesting portion of the world, and is by far the most complete extant.

The aggregate number of specimens of Neotropical birds in the collection is not
known; but the reserve skin series of Passeres, Trochilide, and Pici (exclusive of
the genera Campephilus and Hylotomus) alone contains nearly 9,000 specimens.

In volume 4 of the ‘‘ Proceedings” of the National Museum (1881, pp. 165-203), there
was published a ‘‘ List of speciesof Middle and South American birds, not contained
in the United States National Museum,” the object of the list being to acquaint mu-
seums and individuals with the desiderata of the collection. Cwepies of this list were
judiciously distributed, the direct result being the addition of nearly 100 species to the
collection, and the promise of several hundred more.

Among North American birds there still remain a few important desiderata. Prin-
cipal among these are, of course, species of which the Museum possesses no specimens
whatever, as Cuvier’s Kinglet (Regulus cuvieri), Lawrence’s Warbler (Helminthophaga
Zawrencei), the White-throated Warbler (H. leucobronchialis), the Cincinnati Warbler
(H. cincinnatiensis), the Carbonated Warbler (Perissoglossa? carbonata), the Blue
Mountain Warbler (Dendrwca? montana), Small-headed Flycatcher (Myiodioctes? mi-
nutus), Grinnell’s Water Thrush (Siurus nevius notabilis), Large-billed Shrike (Lanius
ludovicianus robustus), Brewster’s Linnet (A?giothus brewsteri), Thick-billed Parrot
(Rhynchopsitta pachyrhyncha), Arctic Horned Owl] (Bubo virginianus arcticus), Krider’s
Hawk (Buteo borealis krideri), Pallas’s Cormorant (Phalacrocorax perspicillatus). Siber-
ian Gull (Larus affinis), Hornby’s Petrel (Oceanodroma hornbyi), Large-billed Puffin
(Fratercula arctica glacialis), Short-winged Guillemot (Brachyrhamphus brachypterus),
and Sooty Guillemot (Uria carbo). The first, fifth, sixth, and seventh of the above
named species, it may be remarked, do not exist, so far as known, in any collection.
The Museum is also particularly desirous of obtaining good specimens of the Califor-
REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 135

nian Vulture or Condor (Pseudogryphus californianus), and of the American Flamingo
{Phenicopterus ruber), for the exhibition collection.

A complete list of the desiderata of the Museum among North American birds has
also been published in the “Proceedings” (vol. Iv, pp. 207-223).

The number of entries in the bird register during the year has been
3,761, and of eggs 300. In the latter case, however, the figures afford no
indication of the actual number of specimens catalogued. The number
of packages sent out was 57, twelve being distributed in exchange, 38
lent for examination, (of which 28 have been returned,) and seven miscel-
laneous, the total number of specimens distributed having been 892 of
skins, representing 597 species, and 123 lots of eggs, representing 90
species.

Forty-four papers founded upon this collection, have been published
by eleven persons as follows: Robert Ridgway, 18; William Brewster,
13; Dr. L. Stejneger, 3; Mr. George N. Lawrence, 2; Mr. N. C. Brown,
2, and one each by Dr. T. H. Bean, Mr. E. P. Bicknell, Mr. J. H. Gur-
ney, Mr. C. C. Nutting, Dr. R. W. Shufeldt, and Mr. L. M. Turner.

The curator has also devoted much time to the revision of the final
volumes of the “ History of North American Birds.”

A full bibliographical list, as well as an account of the many-valuable
accessions to this department will be found in another part of this re-
port. ;

Bird Skeletons.—The care of the collection of bird skeletons was vol-
untarily assumed by Dr. R. W. Shufeldt, U.S. A... During the early
part of the year the unassorted material was inspected and re-arranged,
and was made by Dr. Shufeldt the basis of several publications. In
1882 Dr. Shufeldt was ordered to New Orleans, and the collection now
stands in the bird compartment of the west basement of the Smithsonian
building.

DEPARTMENT OF REPTILES AND BATRACHIANS.

Dr. Henry C. Yarrow, U.S. A., has continued to act as curator of
this department. His services have been voluntary as heretofore, and
and he therefore stands upon the list of officers as an honorary curator.
His duties in connection with another department of the Government
service have rendered it impossible for him to devote very much time
to the Museum except in his vacation, though two assistants have been
working steadily upon the collections during the entire year. This col-
lection is now established in the easternmost of the small rooms south
of the corridor leading to the west basement of the Smithsonian build-
ing. This can be regarded solely as a storage room and the collection
as being provisionally in storage, though the specimens are arranged
in a systematic order unsurpassed in any other department. Nothing
is on exhibition except the collection of casts of snakes and turtles in
the north hall of the new building. Much of the material, lent many
136 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM.

years ago to Prof. E. D. Cope for investigation, has been reutrned and
incorporated with the remainder of the collection.

One of the most important tasks accomplished during the year has
been the preparation of a complete catalogue of the North American
species in which every specimen, with its locality and the name of its
collector,is given, the duplicates being specially designated. This is
the first of the systematic catalogues of the National Museum and
forms Bulletin 24, prefaced by 1 new check-list of the reptiles and
batrachians of North America.

Much has already been accomplished by the curator of this de-
partment in the identification and final arrangement of the exotic rep-
tiles, a task which, like that of rearranging those of North America,
has been especially laborious, for the reason that the original labels in
many instances were destroyed in the fire of 1865, and have never been
replaced.

The number of entries in the record books for the year is 230, repre-
senting about 920 specimens. The following census of the collection is
presented by the curator:

IRGSGLV,6.SCTIOSE. so = ota se aces eee as tg SScig sk wee alae nets ites a bits wis joroiome aerer ee 7,972
GoneralWsericsto=- coe. cone cco et Soe claw Seine Shen eee eae oases eset areas 2, 686
Temporary exhibition a2 osces keene sees Sace coca ea ec stene Sotieece eeiee tenes 600
Duplicates case cs ssa oe cick cee es tideats Seww cles seeeinee Sais eee eae wee cee eereaee 2, 000(?)
Ten tified ee ee Se ee oe Ss aoe etre wich Sonne eieate SaTao eee anne ee Eee eae 5, 000(?)
Total tavout). saces wos aos ces Ssclsosls setecincieclseenclsscteealeecseke ea aeceee 18, 000

This census relates to the North American reptiles. In addition
there are estimated to be about 8,000 foreign reptiles. A number of
living reptiles have been placed on permanent exhibition in the new
building.

DEPARTMENT OF FISHES.

The west range of the Smithsonian building has been assigned to
the department of fishes for exhibition purposes, and has been redec-
orated and fitted with new cases. The fish laboratories in the north
end of the west basement on the first story, in the basement north of
the corridor leading to the west basement, in the east end of the cloister
north of the west range, and m the temporary second story of the same
cloister, have been re-arranged and made more convenient by building
a private stair-case in the tower at the northwest corner of the main
building, and by the construction of new stories in book-cases.

A large number of fishes were placed on exhibition, but have been
withdrawn for the purpose of making a revision of the entire collection.
This task, which is still in progress, is one of great magnitude, the
number of duplicates being large, and the history of many of the speci-
mens having been recovered since the fire. It is now being carried on
with great rapidity by Dr. Bean, who has been assisted by Messrs.
REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. TST

R. H. Miner and H. G. Dresel, U. S. N., Mr. Peter Parker, and Mr.
Barton A. Bean.

The extent of the task may be estimated from the fact that between
the time of the beginning of this work, in October, and the first of Jan-
uary over 10,000 catalogue cards were written, each containing the
name of the species and of the donor, the catalogue number, the locality,
and the size of the jar in which the specimens were contained. In con-
nection with this work every specimen is inspected and every receptacle
supplied, when necessary, with fresh alcohol.

Specimens frequently have to be transferred from old tanks and bot-
tles to better vessels. Another laborious task is that of stamping the
catalogue number on a strip of block tin and attaching it permanently
to each specimen in the reserve series,a work which has been going on
during the entire year with the hope of having every specimen in the
Museum before long permanently identified by having attached to it an
indestructible label.

Dr. Bean presents the accompanying census of this collection, based
upon estimate :

IMiTOSELVie/ SOLIS) sa sje sis es Secs oss cases Sem eises) Secclsos/=sasslslewaisis des aeesees 20, 000:
OMe chi Dil OMmses eres Settee eyelet bale) « ie cole eee reece ie meee eee een 20, 000:
Up liCA LOS Maen sites Sess oolaitic ssw aaa aee ol cie bees ocjamal oof bee eee ene gare 10, 000

Mota Pete wapoks et aspect ee aye visions oie eels alc tise sin. eyetcine clevciee arsine ores 50, 000:

And remarks as follows upon its condition and his present methods of
administration:

I am confident that this estimate is below rather than above the real figures. More
than 10,000 catalogue cards have already been written for the specimens in bottles,
and the work is not more than two-thirds completed. There will be certainly 15,000
cards for the identified species, exclusive of large faunal collections, such as those
of Alaska, Japan, China, Southern United States, Bermuda, West Indies, and deep
sea off the New England coast, all of which are set aside for special reports from offi-
cers of the Museum now employed in their investigation when opportunity can be
had. The tank collection is also very large, and will bring up the total number to
the figures given above, and probably far beyond.

As a matter of course, where so many fishes are to be cared for, some of which are
received in bad condition, part of the materialis poorly preserved and some is fit only
to be thrown away. Difficult as it is to keep a collection of fishes in good order, and
remembering the length of time during which some portions of it have been in this
Museum, subjected to the ordinary causes of decay as well as to the wear and tear in-
volved in such examination of specimens as has always been permitted here, it is not
to be wondered at that we have some mutilated and decayed fishes. Until a thorough
overhauling, which is now in progress, is completed, the collection will contain some
things which are neither pleasing nor useful.

The bad element, however, is comparatively small and is rapidly decreasing. With
the exception of the salmonoids and allied families proverbially hard to preserve, the
bottled fishes are mostly in good condition. Many of the tanks used for holding large
fishes are leaky and their tin lining is worn off, so that copper stains are frequent on
specimens so kept. We have transferred such lots to newly-tinned tanks, recently
received, whenever their condition was noted.

The fish skins, as might be expected from the nature of such preparations, are gen-
138 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM.

erally in a pitiable condition. Dust-incumbered, moth-eaten, rigid and brittle from
age,gnawed by rats and mice, they are a solemn warning against the attempt to
illustrate species by such means. I have only too gladly obeyed my instructions to
destroy all such material unless, for some reason or other, it is necessary to keep it in
the collection. Hereafter nothing but types or examples from localities of especial
interest will tax our efforts to preserve them, and, whenever possible, these skins
will be put in glass jars.

During the first ten months of the year Mr. H. L. Todd executed 93
drawings of fishes under the direction of the curator. These are in
continuation of the series of drawings of the fishes of North America
begun five years ago, the number of which has now extended to 665.
These drawings are prepared especially for reproduction by the photo-
relief process, and are exceedingly fine, thorough scientific accuracy of
detail having been secured through the supervision of Dr. Bean, who
has devoted much time to the examination, measurement, and criticism
of each drawing.

During the year 88 papers, written by 22 persons, as shown in the
following list, were prepared with special reference to specimens in this
department.

Baird Prot) Sakis eat= esate ses | Jordan! & Gilberts-2---eesse eee 22
Bean wr wees sms epee et mioee ae 12) | MeDonald, (Cols Mien 3 eases 5
Editor of Belfast (Me.) Journal --- 1. Mather reds 20-27 eet- ae 7
Collings Capt. i. Wisesecs case 2 o=- 2 Phillips) Barneness. esses seeeeae 1
HOGDeS ETO OspAlcssseseses est ees 1* | Rathbun} Richard 222.226 esse 1
Gilbert, CharleswH wcsecccs sss fss- 1: | Robertson) "R. Bel ee ae eee 1
Gill PProfy Ra Nie) ceakis otis m2 nses 3) uy Gers Johny Ave acess eee ee 6
Goode1wG sy DLOWM: 2 =ciee sicee ose sce 6ciiSmith, Rosaicsccss eet eee eee 1
(GOOMErREpD ERD mae ing tte cie cic = xinisss OPPS a SNE seacos esse Coes sae 1
Goodevcé Collins. = 922.-)--- cts =-tas 1 Swain, Josepheeseeccessesee seo 2
ELA vaw LO Ob acto scinsacceres2 <i 1 (Swan, James Gea. secs ease eae 1
Ingersoll vErnest so-a. 25-4 ss =. 1) Danner, Liett.2.Lisssu- soese ene 1
OLGAN AD) UVAGIS Ss jeanne Soce ccseer 54}, True, Hrederiek iW was--.ssee eee 1

There are only two persons who have made much use of the collec-
‘tions besides the Museum officers. Professors Jordan and Gilbert, by
reason of their contributions of fishes from the west coast of the United
States, Central America, the Gulf of Mexico, Charleston, and other re-
gions, have performed much labor upon the elaboration of these colleec-
tions and other Museum material previously sent here from the same
places. By reference to the bibliography immediately following this
chapter, it will be seen that nearly twenty papers have been written by
these gentlemen, principally upon material recently contributed by one
or both of them. These studies were made principally upon fishes of
Lower California, Mazatlan, Panama, Gulf of Mexico, and Charleston.

Professor Hay studied and reported upon the 64 species taken by
him in Mississippi, Tennessee, and other Southern States before they
were forwarded to the Museum.

Miss Rosa Smith and Mr. Joseph Swain reported upon a collection
REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 139

of fishes made at Johnston’s Island, Pacific Ocean, and Mr. Swain pre-
pared papers on Syngnathine and Stolephorus.

As in years past, the curator of this department has acted as editor
of the “Proceedings” and “Bulletins” of the United States National
Museum, also performed the duties of editor of the Fish Commission
Bulletins until April 1882, at which date this work was transferred to
Mr. C. W. Smiley, of the Fish Commission.

DEPARTMENT OF MOLLUSKS.

Mr. William H. Dall, of the United States Coast Survey, has continued
his voluntary supervision of this department. No assistants, however,
having been assigned to him this year, and his own time having been
largely occupied by his official duties elsewhere, including an investi-
gation of the deep-sea mollusks collected by Mr. Alexander Agassiz on
the Blake, little has been done on the general collections, which are
in the main stored in the drawers of the table cases in the main Smith-
sonian hall and its galleries. The mollusk laboratory on the fourth
floor of the main central tower of the Smithsonian building has, how-
ever, been entirely refitted and refurnished, and is now the most com-
pletely equipped of all the special laboratories. A great quantity of
material belonging to this department, including the Binney collection,
the collection of fresh-water shells identified and labeled by Mr.
James Lewis, and that portion of the collection labeled by Mr. Robert
E. C. Stearns, which has already been received, together with many
other valuable lots, is stored in packing-boxes in the general storage
room in the central basement of the Smithsonian building. During the
year the boxes containing mollusks have been separated from the others
in storage and have been included in the card catalogue of the storage
rooms prepared by the registrar. Our collection of mollusks is exceed-
ingly rich, and it is hoped that during the present year steps may be
taken toward its final arrangement. Mr. R. E. C. Stearns, of Berkeley,
Cal., who had been expected to assume the curatorship, has hitherto been
prevented by ill health. Mr. Dall in his report for the year presents a
history of the department and suggestions for its administration, which
it seems desirable to place on record:

The collection of the mollusca has suffered many vicissitudes in the past. It is
about eighteen years since I first became interested in the mollusk collection of the
Institution. It is about fourteen years since I first took charge of it, and my connec-
tion with the duties of the position has been (except during about fourteen months
in 1870~71) that of a volunteer worker, struggling to keep from deterioration a val-
uable typical collection, without clerical assistance, without any of the mechanical
aids to labor employed in all museums of equal importance, without any regular al-
lowance whatever for the needs of the department, with a building and cases which
rendered the work of preservation more than ordinarily difficult, and with the ne-
eessity of supporting myself by other work which occupied nearly all the ordinary
working-hours of the day. It is obvious that under such circumstances the curator
who succeeded in making any impression on the material which was added from
140 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM.

time to time by gift or exchange, in addition to keeping order among that originally -
on hand, might reckon himself fortunate.

The original collection was mounted with cement on glass plates by the late Dr.
Philip P. Carpenter. Twice the writer replaced the twelve or fifteen thousand spec-
imens upon their tablets, from which the extremes of winter cold and summer heat
had detached them. When the third winter passed and the effect of the temperature
was again apparent, I spent a month experimenting with cements, found none reli-
able, and proceeded to relabel and place in paper trays the entire collection.

From July, 1871, to January, 1875, I was detailed on field work in Alaska by the
United States Coast Survey, and again in 1880. During these periods the curator-
Ship remained practically vacant. While engaged in the above-mentioned field work,
dredgings were carried on over nearly the whole coast of Alaska, and of invertebrates
alone, from 1871 to 1875, not less than 100,000 specimens were forwarded to the
Museum. On my return in 1875, the question of representation at the Centennial Ex-
hibition was mooted, and the curator of mollusks devoted, with the exception of his
Sundays, every spare hour of his time fur six months in preparing a collection of eco-
nomic invertebrates for that occasion.

The funds available for this purpose indirectly benefited the collection by the
duplicates which came in with specimens collected for exhibition and which were
administered upon simultaneously.

At this time the valuable services of Mr. F. G. Sanborn were temporarily obtained,
and by hard and constant work the general collection of the Museum was labeled,
cleaned, and systematically arranged. The policy of the curator from that time for-
ward has been simple.

Specimens of a general character coming in are carefully registered and boxed’ and
put in store. A collection prepared by the late Dr. James Lewis, for the Centennial,
of the land and fresh-water shells of the United States, carefully labeled, catalogued,
and packed, has been retained in its original boxes. Everything of value or not ad-
ministered upon has been put away, packed and secluded, safe from harm at least,
until better times for the colection should arrive. In this way only could the progress
made be held good. Until skilled assistance and a constant guardianship are availa-
ble, it would be very unwise to expose to the inevitable injuries of dust, accident, or
carelessness, collections whose value could not be estimated in money. Meanwhile the
curator has bent his energies and employed his leisure in putting into shape for future
reference special groups, one by one. In this way something has been accomplished.
This has been done especially with the brachiopods, limpets, and chitons, but unfortu-
nately, owing to defects of the only cases available, mice and dust have since made
such effectual inroads upon the chitonide that the labor of months has been lost and
that part of the collection practically ruined. -

The immense collection of Alaskan mollusks, howevei, has been registered and sys-
tematically arranged, compared, and studied in a preliminary way, and has suffered
from nothing worse than dust. The administration upon some thirty or forty thou-
sand specimens has taken several years, and has been carried on wholly out of ordi-
nary office hours,

During the last year the curator has been engaged during spare moments in re-
porting upon the very interesting mollusks of the deep sea obtained by various United
States vessels, especially the party on the Coast Survey steamer Blake, under the
supervision of Prof. A. Agassiz; and the mollusks of the northwest coast have been
temporarily laid aside, to be returned to hereafter. The latter are in a forward state
and will take comparatively little labor to prepare a proper monograph and cata-
logue of them for publication.

The present state of the collection may be summarized as follows:

1. Labeled in order and accessible for reference, the general collection of mollusks.
prepared by Dr. Carpenter, and of which part was originally mounted on glass, ex-
cept two boxes as hereafter mentioned.
REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. ¢ 141

2. In order and accessible for reference, but requiring new labels, the West American
collection prepared by Dr. Carpenter and originally mounted on glass, containing
many of his types. Also the types of Dr. Gould’s descriptions of North Pacific mol-
lusks, from the Rodgers exploring expedition, so far as they are in the possession of
the Institution. The majority of the types of Dr. Gould, however, though the prop-
erty of the United States, have never reached the National Museum, and are believed
to be in private hands.

3. In order, labeled, catalogued, and inaccessible (i. e., packed up), the collection
of North American land and fresh-water shells prepared by Dr. James Lewis for the
Centennial exhibit of the National Museum.

4, Identified and labeled with rough labels, to be replaced by the standard Museum
label before exhibition, catalogued, but not unpacked, two boxes of the original
Carpenter collection of miscellaneous shells.

5. Identified and labeled as above by the donors, packed up safely, but never yet
placed on the Museum catalogues or registers, the Binney collection of typical
American land shells; a large number of shells (between 2,000 and 3,000 species)
given to the Museum by W. H. Dall, being his own private accumulations by pur-
chase, collection, or exchange, when not connected with the Museum; numbers of
small donations from many friends of the Institution, received from time to time;
typical land and fresh-water shells received from Dr. Isaac Lea, of Philadelphia, &c.

6. Unidentified virgin material received from definite localities, packed safely, but
not administered upon in detail, an immense stock from the United States, and di-
vers valuable lots of exotics.

7. Separated, labeled with preliminary labels, registered, and in process of being
worked up, generally dusty, but in good order, the general Alaskan and northwest
coast collection contributed by W. H. Dall, his associates and friends, from original field
researches; a smaller but still valuable Californian collection from the same sources;
a North European collection of recent and Tertiary fossil species obtained by purchase
and exchange for special comparison with and identification of the preceding ; also
many Arctic species gathered with the same end in view.

8. Injured and worthless specimens; though notwithstanding the great mass of the
material belonging to the Institution, it is probable that there is unusually little trash
in it.

9. Alcoholics, in good order, partly labeled. There isa large collection of alco-
holics, much of which is labeled and, thanks to the care and energy of Mr. Rathbun,
in excellent order. It may be worth while to remark that, all earlier alcoholics hav-
ing been removed by Dr. Stimpson to Chicago and subsequently burned in the historic
conflagration, when the curator returned to Washington, in January, 1875, there was
no alcoholic collection except that made by himself in Alaska and California. (The
Fish Commission collection, not having reached Washington, is not included among
the assets of the Museum, though eventually to become so.) Special attention has
been given to this class of specimens; and by a wide correspondence and the gener-
osity of the never-failing friends of the Smithsonian Institution, a good representa-
tion of most types of mollusks may now be found in the room devoted to inverte
brates in alcohol. A few species have lately been received from the collections of
the Fish Commission, and a larger number from Dr. R. E. C. Stearns, collected on the
Pacific coast.

Having thus briefly reviewed the treasures of the National Museum in the present
curator’s department, a few words as to facilities obtained during the year and re-
quired for the future are in order.

Until the present year, the conchological department of the Museum has not been
provided with cases suitable for receiving and preserving shells free from dust, mice,
and sudden concussions from ill-fitting drawers.

During the present summer the laboratory has been partly fitted up in excellent
shape. The middle and chief working room of the range of three in use for the
142 ° REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM.

shells has been fitted with good and dust-proof cases, a new gallery, and accommoda-
tion in the shape of universal drawers for a large number of specimens. It is hoped
and believed that to these will be added suitable cases for the Museum Hall, in
which finally perfected work may be placed permanently for reference or exhibition,
without fear of deterioration. Steps have already been taken to replace the inflam-
mable partitions of the east and west laboratory rooms by brick walls, and to refur-
nish with suitable shelving and cases this part of the work-shop.

Means for making sections of shells are desirable, but the necessary lathe might
economically and easily be made a part of the taxidermist’s equipment, where it would
be equally and more frequently useful, while still accessible when needed.

It is the writer’s opinion that an extensive exhibition of the shells as mere objets
de regard is not desirable. He believes that, first, a thoroughly illustrated series of a
few typical forms from embryo to adult, with enlarged models and dissections of the
soft parts; secondly, an economical series, with illustrations of their economic applica-
tion, asin cameo shells, pearl shells, &c.; thirdly, a good local series of the mollusks of
the District; and, lastly, a case or two of prominent characteristic forms of the different
orders, recent and fossil, side by side, would be more instructive, more interesting,
and more desirable than the large series of every attainable species common to most.
museums, and which produces, except for the specialist, only a confused and even
wearying impression upon the visitor’s mind.

DEPARTMENT OF INSECTS.

As was stated in my last report, the department of entomology is one
which has been very little cultivated in the National Museum, although
in past years the Smithsonian Institution has published many valuable
works on insects, and through its various collectors gathered much ma-
terial for investigation.

The material thus obtained by special collectors, by the various Gov-
ernment surveys, as well as that sent in by correspondents, has always.
been distributed for study to the several entomologists who have been
serving as collaborators of the Smithsonian Institution, much of the mate-
rial having passed into the hands of the entomologists of the Depart-
ment of Agriculture, it always having been the understanding that all
material, after being reported upon, should be returned to the Depart-
ment of Agriculture for preservation in its cabinets. The custody and
entire responsibility of the national collection of insects was in this way
transferred to the Department of Agriculture; but the lack of a per-
manent museum organization and the constant changes in the heads.
of the Department resulted very unfavorably for the collection, and the
remnants of the same, which have recently been transferred to the
National Museum by the present Commissioner, are of very slight im-
portance. Prof. C. V. Riley, the entomologist of the Department of
Agriculture, has, from the time of his accession to that position, urged
the transfer which has recently been made, and has from the beginning
insisted that the systematic collection should be preserved under the:
permanent organization of the National Museum. Following out this
idea, Professor Riley accepted, in 1881, the position of honorary curator,.
performing voluntarily such duties connected with this division of the
Museum as are at present necessary.
REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 143

Professor Riley has deposited his own private collection of insects,
which comprises about 30,000 species of all orders, mostly from North
America, arranged in some 350 double folding boxes, and in two cabinets
with eight glass-covered drawers, the specimens being all in good
condition and classified so far as determined. In addition to this col-
lection, Professor Riley has deposited a large amount of material pre-
served in alcohol, mounted on microscopic slides, or blown and mounted.
dry, illustrating the life, history, and economy of more than 3,000 spe-
cies. This collection is illustrated by a large quantity of notes and.
descriptions, in large part still unpublished.

The Riley collection now on deposit represents about all that is val-
uable in this department of the Museum.

Mr. Albert Koebble was assigned as an aid to the curator during a por-
tion of the year. The actual work has consisted chiefly in the answering
of inquiries made regarding insects, from correspondents of the Museum
and the Smithsonian Institution, and in taking care of and mounting
the material received. The collection has been constantly used in the
work of the Department of Agriculture by specialists who have found
occasion to refer to it. All investigations in entomology made by the
curator during the year were for the Department of Agriculture, anda
statement of the various lines of investigation pursued will be found in
his annual report for that Department. <A list of papers by him printed
during the year is also given in the bibliography appended.

The following suggestions are extracted from the curator’s report:

Repeatedly during the year collections have been offered but necessarily declined,
because there was no fund for their purchase. I would strongly recommend, therefore, _
that provision be made, Ist, for the purchase of such collections as are of sufficient.
value and which maz se from time to time offered or obtainable; 2d, that a com-
petent assistant be permanently engaged in the general work of the Department and
in the preparation of the exhibit collection.

Hitherto no attempt has been made to preserve and keep together the entomologi-
cal material that has been gathered and brought to Washington by officers of the
Government. Such material has generally been turned over to the Department of
Agriculture and either distributed among specialists or neglected and lost sight of.
While my present work as curator is a labor of love, and very little can be accom-
plished without means, yet I shall strive to at least properly care for the specimens
that accumulate from various sources until such time as their importance shall war-
rant more means and labor being devoted to them.

DEPARTMENT OF MARINE INVERTEBRATES.

The collection of marine invertebrates under the direction of the cura-
tor, Mr. Richard Rathbun, is rapidly being reduced to order; the ar-
rearages of many years fast being made up. This has been a task of
considerable magnitude, from tie fact that in the decade ending 1880
very little attention had been paid to this department, and that the best
part of the material was destroyed in the burning of the Chicago Acad-
emy of Sciences. The amount of space assigned to this department is
very small, consisting of the western work-room south of the corridor
144 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM.

leading to the west basement, the laboratory in the western end of the
cloister north of the west range, and the west range of the Smithsonian
building. The west hall has been assigned to this department for its
exhibition purposes, but is still to some extent filled with other material
eventually to be moved to the new museum. Very little, therefore,
has been done in the development of the exhibition series, and the chief
activity has been in the store-rooms, but the results are not so apparent
now as they will be when room can be found for the proper installation
of the collections. The coral collection, as well as part of the echino-
derms and sponges, have been mounted on ebonized tablets, and the
experiments which have been made in arranging these in cases with
maroon backgrounds indicate that the west hall when arranged will be
one of the most beautiful and attractive in the Museum.

Mr. Rathbun has been assisted during the year by Messrs. J. B. Blish
and W. E. Safford, midshipmen, U.S. N., and by Messrs. R. S. Tarr and
George F. Weld; the latter a volunteer.

The number of entries in the catalogue during the year have been
2,630. The card-catalogue begun last year is now nearly complete, con-
taining between 8,000 and 9,000 cards. This card-catalogue indicates
which of the specimens are in the reserve and which in the duplicate
series.

During the summer the curator was attached to the party of the
United States Fish Commissioner at Wood’s Holl, and under Professor
Verrill had charge of the dredging operations on the steamer Fish
Hawk. Mr. Rathbun paid special attention to the use of the tow-nets
at different depths in collecting free-swimming copepods, on which he
is preparing a special report; and he has also been engaged in preparing
for the Fishery Report, now in progress of publication under the joint
direction of the Commissioner of Fisheries and the Superintendent of
the Census, a chapter descriptive of the natural history, of all known
species of economic American marine invertebrates, and of the methods
and results of this particular fishery. These reports, which are now in
the hands of the printer, set forth the practical features of this depart-
ment of the Museum, which are of no small consequence, as they embrace
the lobsters, crabs, shrimps, and sponges, the annual fisheries for which
amount to over $1,200,000. This is the first attempt made to report
upon this class of fisheries in this country from accurate data. Fourteen
papers relating to this department have been published during the year,
five by the curator, six by Prof. A. E. Verrill, one by Mr. Sidney I.
Smith, one by Dr. T. Hale Streets, and one by Mr. John A. Ryder.
The collection of fresh-water crayfish has been lent to Mr. Walter An-
derson, of the Museum of Comparative Zoology, for study and publica-
tion.

Mr. Rathbun has submitted the following special statement upon the
distribution of duplicate specimens:
REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 145

The condition of the collections in this department of the Museum can now be con-
sidered as exceptionally good, considering the restricted quarters in which they are
contained. It was the first care of the curator, when he entered upon his duties, in
the fall of 1880, to examine every part of the collection with reference to its safe
keeping, and every new accession has been unpacked as soon as it was received, in
order that no destruction might result from long storage. The dry specimens have
all been removed from the basement rooms, which are too damp for the preservation
of such materials, and the entire alcoholic collection has been examined at least once a
year, for the purpose of replacing alcohol lost by evaporation or the cracking of jars.
It is impossible to state the number of specimens or species now belonging to this de-
partment, as large portions of the collection are still uncatalogued and larger portions
un-identified. The reserve series is very extensive and contains much unique mate-
rial. The dry reserve specimens of corals and sponges have been mostly mounted and
placed on exhibition, as have also representatives of all the groups of echinoderms
and a few of the crustaceans. The exhibition series, thus far prepared, contains the ~
following number of specimens:

Corals, 734. Sponges, 235. Echinoderms, 510. Crustacea, 47.

The National Museum suffered severely by the Chicago fire of 1871, which destroyed
almost all of the alcoholic reserve series of crustaceans and radiates, as already ex-
plained. The reserve series as now constituted has been derived from innumerable
sources, of which the following are the most prominent, either from the size or value
of the collections furnished :

From the United States Exploring Expedition: About 50 types of Dana’s species of
crustaceans, partly dry and partly alcoholic, have been left to the Museum, and are
still in good condition for examination. A large number of the corals obtained by
the same expedition and named by Dana are also intact, and, although they have
suffered much from rough handling, they still form the most important feature of the
exhibition series of corals. A few of the United States Exploring Expedition sponges
were also saved.

From the North Pacific Exploring Expedition: A small number of Stimpson’s types
of crustaceans and many dry echinoderms were retained at Washington, and thereby
escaped destruction.

From the United States Fish Commission: As elsewhere stated, the Fish Commission
collections constitute the bulk of the materials in nearly all the branches of this depart-
ment. These collections are especially complete for the New England coast as to
the decapod and isopod crustaceans, pycnogonids, worms, echinoderms, and anthozoa,
and include large quantities of unidentified crustaceans and radiates from the South
Atlantic coast, collected by Messrs.Earll and MacDonald; from the Gulf coast, by
Mr. Silas Stearns, and from the Pacific coast, by Prof. D. 8. Jordan.

From the Bermuda Centennial Commission: A fine collection of Bermuda corals.

From the Museu Nacional de Rio de Janeiro: A complete collection of Brazilian
corals.

From Mr. John Xantus: An old collection of corals and other specimens from Southern
California.

From various naval expeditions, including the Transit of Venus Expedition, the
Palos Expedition, and the Alliance Arctic Expedition: Numerous collections of radi-
ates, crustaceans, and worms.

From Dr. T. H. Streets, U. S. N., and Dr. William H. Jones, U. S. N.: Similar
collections from several sources.

From the United States Coast Survey: Alaskan collections of crustaceans, worms,
radiates, and sponges, collected by Mr. William H. Dall. j

From the United States Signal Service parties in Alaska, including Mr. E. W. Nelson.

From Mr. L. Turner and the party at Point Barrow: Miscellaneous collections.

From the United States Coast Survey steamer Blake: Crustaceans, crinoids, anthozoa,
and sponges, received from Prof. Alexander Agassiz.

H. Mis. 26 10

146 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM.

From Prof. J. M. Langston: Corals from Hayti, W. I.

From Mr. J. M. Bowers: Corals from the Society Islands.

From the Germany Fishery Commission, through Prof. Karl Mébius: Miscellane-
ous collections from the North Sea.

From Professor Lindstrom: Similar collections from the Baltic Sea.

From Prof, Charles Liitken: Eighty-five species of European annelids.

From Dr. Gustay Eisen: A collection of European and Californian earth-worms.

From Mr. Winifred Stearns: Miscellaneous collection from the Coast of Labrador.

From Wesleyan University, Middletown, Conn., and Dr. George Hawes: Similar col-
lections from Bermuda.

From Col. N. Pike: Corals, echinoderms, and crustaceans from the Mauritius Islands.

From Messrs. Henry Hemphill and L. Belding: Similar collections from the coast of
California.

From Captain Dow: Similar collections from Panama.

From Messrs. McResson and Robbins: A large collection of Florida commercial
sponges.

By purchase: A large and fine series of the commercial sponges of the world,
exhibited at the Centennial Exposition and identified by Prof. Alpheus Hyatt.

From Prof. H. L. Smith : 1,275 microscopicslides of foraminifera, from many sources.

It would be quite impossible to enumerate further the constituent parts of the reserve
series without going beyond the proper limits of this report.

The duplicates still on hand and available for distribution are as follows: Number
of species: Crustaceans, 43; Worms, 19; mollusks, 48; bryozoans and tunicates, 30;
radiates, 42; sponges, 5; total, 187. Number of specimens: Crustaceans, 24,000;
worms, 4,000; mollusks, 24,000; bryozoans and tunicates, 6,000; radiates, 16,000;
sponges, 259; total, 74,250.

The reserve series of specimens is still in quite an unfinished state, which makes a
report upon it very unsatisfactory. So much material has been received during the
past year, and other administrative work, including the distribution of duplicates,
has interfered to such an extent, that in many cases it has been only possible to
enter the specimens in the record books and store them for future examination. In
reality, more time has been spent upon the reserve series than upon any other collec-
tions. The different groups are arranged separately in the storage cases and any
specimens desired can be readily found. <A portion of the reserve series of alcoholic
crustaceans and echinoderms has been stored temporarily in the wall-cases of the main
hall of the Smithsonian building; but the bulk of the alcoholics still remain in the
east and west basements of the same building.

In this connection it may be proper to refer to the work now being carried on at
New Haven by Prof. A. E. Verrill and Prof. 8. I. Smith, on the marine invertebrates
collected by the United States Fish Commission on and off the New England coast.
The curator is not kept informed as to the progress of this work, excepting as reports
are handed in for publication and finished collections are received for the Museum.
An account of the materials so far received from Professors Verrill and Smith has
already been given, and a bibliography of their reports published this year will be
found below.

The exhibition series—The work thus far accomplished in the preparation of the
exhibition series of invertebrates has been extremely satisfactory, and gives promise
that the display of marine invertebrates will be second to no other in the Museum
in attractiveness. In the fall of 1881 the west hall of the Smithsonian building, which
had been previously occupied by the mineral exhibit and a portion of the pottery
received from the Centennial Exposition, was assigned to this department, but as yet
only a part of the wall space has been made available for use. This hall, which has
a length of 90 feet and a width of 40 feet, is admirably fitted for the exhibition of
specimens, and is well lighted. Suitable cases of black walnut cover the walls, to
« height of 74 feet, on three sides of the room, the east, south, and west. The empty
REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 147

floor space remaining after the large objects of pottery shall have been removed will
be sufficiently great to accommodate five or six separate upright cases, and the semi-
circular space at the north end can also be utilized for smaller cases. Only the cases
on the east and south sides have thus far been emptied of the old collections, and
these are now filled with marine invertebrates. Considerable time was spent in pre-
paring this exhibit, in studying the effect of different-colored tablets and backgrounds
upon the specimens, ebonized tablets and a maroon background to the cases being
finally adopted as the most desirable and attractive. The collections first selected for
exhibition were those which could be the most readily prepared and which were in
greatest need of proper storage—the dry corals, sponges, and echinoderms—and these
naturally constitute the most showy portions of the marine invertebrate collections.
Mr. E. H. Hawley, who had been very successful in the preparation of the exhibition
series of marine invertebrates at the Peabody Museum, of Yale College, and at the
American Museum, New York, was employed for this task, which he has executed in
a very superior manner, producing a more attractive display than probably exists in
any other similar museum in the country. Mr. Hawley continued his work upon
this collection during most of 1881, and until March, 1882, when his services were
required in another department of the Museum, and the mounting of marine inverte-
brates was temporarily discontinued. He had, however, finished all the specimens
that had been prepared for mounting up to that time.

As the cases prepared for this purpose were inadequate to hold the entire mounted
display collection, it has been impossible to arrange it in proper order, but, never-
theless, the temporary arrangement has been duly appreciated by the public, judging
from the many favorable criticisms passed upon it. The showy corals now form the
bulk of the display collection, and, considering that a majority of the corals are types
from the United States Exploring Expedition, their value is very great. Other feat-
ures of this display are the centennial collection of Bermuda corals; a complete series
of all the known species and varieties of commercial sponges, identified by good
authority ; a large series of Alaskan sponges; and a great variety of echinoderms,
from many sources. The proposed additions to the exhibition series will be discussed
further on. The Museum printing office having been fully occupied with preparing
labels for other departments, the exhibition collection in this department is still un-
labelled, but this deficiency will be remedied during the coming year.

Distribution of duplicates.—The extensive explorations of the United States Fish
Commission, along the eastern coast of the United States, during the past twelve
years, have brought together a large mass of duplicate materials, in the line of marine
invertebrates, which is being distributed as rapidly as possible to institutions of
learning throughout this country, and to a few foreign ones. No returns have been
demanded for the duplicates disposed of in the United States, but those sent to for-
eign countries are generally in exchange for collections of equal value for the Museum.
Three general series of duplicate sets have already been prepared and two distributed.
The first series, consisting of 50 sets, with 118 species each, and over 18,000 speci-
mens in all, was sent out, in 1879, to many of the higher schools of learning in this
country, and to a few foreign institutions. Series II, also containing 50 sets of 189
species each, and a total of over 50,000 specimens, is now very nearly ready for distri-
bution, and will be sent out the coming January or February. Series III, or the edu-
cational series of 50 sets, with 98 species each, and a total of over 15,000 specimens,
was finished and distributed in June, 1882. Enough material stills remains for mak-
ing up a second educational series of 200 sets, with about 125 species each, and the
work of preparing this series will be begun in January, 1883.

As a part of Series II, ten additional sets, containing the same species and many
others, is now being prepared, for sending to the London Fishery Exhibition of 1883,
to be disposed of in Europe, by exchange, for collections for the Museum. This
Museum is greatly in need of authentic foreign collections of marine animals for the
purposes of comparison, and much valuable material of this character can undoubt-
edly be obtained by such a system of exchange.
148 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM.

The disposal of such a quantity of duplicate material as is now being sent out, of
no further value to the Museum, will be of benefit to the institution in more than one
way. In addition to increasing its sphere of usefulness, and bringing back to it some
returns in the way of exchanges, it will also relieve the Museum of much care and
expense, necessary to the preservation of such an extensive colleetion, and enable
the workers in this department to devote their entire time to the reserve and unde-
termined materials.

From the many resources of the National Museum, it is natural to suppose that this
department will, in the course of time, assume greater proportions than the same
department of any other museum in the country. The accessions for the past three
years, or since the renewal of activity in this line, have beenso great that the depart-
ment has outgrown the space assigned to it, and, unless more room is made available
at an early date, the safety of the collections will be more or less imperiled. It is
very gratifying to the curator to be able to note such rapid progress in a department
which has lain dormant for so long a time.

Among the many plans proposed for the coming year, it is intended to make con-
siderable advancement in the preparation of the exhibition series, in order that the
more instructive specimens, of which many are still packed away, may all be made
serviceable to the general public at once. Another reason for rapidly perfecting the
exhibition series is one now generally recognized by all museums, that, as a rule, less
damage happens to specimens when they are open to constant inspection than when
they are stored away out of sight. The pottery now filling the cases on the west side
of the marine invertebrate hall is to be soon removed, when these cases will be altered
to correspond with those now containing the invertebrate collections. Enough speci-
mens of corals and sponges are now mounted or prepared for mounting to nearly fill
these new cases, so that with little exertion a very extensive display can be made.

The scheme for the exhibition of specimens in this department, as at present worked
out, comprises two features—the general display collection, which we have deen dis-
cussing, and the synoptical collection, which has not yet been begun. The former
will illustrate the several groups of marine invertebrates, with reference to external
form, by a massing together of all the members of the groups, which it is possible to
obtain or to exhibit to advantage in the cases. The synoptical collection will be of a
more educational character, and will represent the external and internal anatomy,
and embryology of typical members of each group by means of careful preparations,
dissections, and diagrams. The latter scheme will necessitate a much greater outlay
of labor than the former, and will require a number of years for its accomplishment.
This portion of the exhibition collection will have to be accommodated in new up-
right cases, to occupy the center floor space, after the present incumbrances are re-
moved. The general display collection will also soon outgrow the wall cases allotted
to it, and require additional space on the floor.

In the present scheme no account has been taken of the large reserve series of al-
coholic specimens, excepting where such may be used in the synoptical collection.
The general display collection now contains only dried specimens, which are the most
suitable for display. The ordinary cylindrical jars of thick glass distort their contents,
and it is generally impossible to keep the alcohol so clear that the specimens can be
readily distinguished from the outside. Nevertheless, there are in this department
large quantities of showy specimens, of which dry preparations cannot be made, and
which it is desirable to display. Square jars have been suggested, and would certainly
be preferable to the round ones. A matter of greater importance, however, is the safe
keeping of the entire reserve series of specimens in alcohol, which is now mainly stored
in dark rooms and passageways in the basement, where it is very difficult to giveit the
proper attention. A portion of these specimens, which have been determined and
properly labelled, have been arranged in the wall cases on the south side of the main
Smithsonian hall, and if no objection is made the curator proposes to fill as many of
these cases as are not now used for other purposes. There is no doubt but that the
REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 149

safety of the collections will be greatly improved by keeping them open to daily
inspection.

A great desideratum in this department is a supply of authentic foreign collection
for the purposes of comparison in making identifications, and an attempt will be made
this spring to remedy this deficiency in part by soliciting exchanges from several
European authorities. For this purpose, ten very superior sets of duplicates of Fish-
Commission specimens have been prepared and will be sent to the London Fishery
Exhibition, where they can probably be disposed of to the best advantage of the
Museum.

DEPARTMENT OF FOSSIL INVERTEBRATES. j

The department of fossil invertebrates has been under the charge of
Dr. C. A. White, who during part of the year was directly in the em-
ploy of the Museum, and who now, having accepted the position of pa-
leontologist of the United States Geological Survey, continues his work
in the Museum as honorary curator. Unlike most of the honorary eu-
rators, however, his whole time, except when in the field with the survey,
in summer, is devoted to administrative work and investigation upon
the collections, and his office is in the laboratory of the department.
This department is now installed in the west-south range of the new
Museum, being deposited in the drawers of thirteen unit table-cases,
the laboratory being in the two adjoining rooms at the west side of the
south entrance. No part of this collection is on exhibition, and consid-
erable portions of it are still in the storage rooms. The most valuable
specimens, particularly those which have been studied and have served
as types for the publication of the late Prof. Fielding B. Meek, have
been cleansed of the accumulated dust of long storage and put in excel-
lent order.

Dr. White’s own specialty is in the study of the invertebrates of the
Mesozoic and Cenozoic periods, and Mr. C. B. Wolcott, also of the Geo-
logical Survey, has been assigned by its director to work in this depart-
ment, and is acting as assistant curator, under the direction of Dr. White,
having special charge of the Paleozoic fossils. His work in the field
extends over more than half the year, and work upon this section of the
collection is not so far advanced. Mr. L. M. Garrett, U. S. N., has
acted as assistant in this department and accompanied the curator to
the field upon the work of the United States Geological Survey from
July to October. Dr. White has already devoted much time during the
year to duties as chief of the Artesian Wells Commission.

Of this department of the Museum it can be said that its material is
in excellent order for scientific investigation, and that it is being exten-
sively used for that purpose.

I quote from Dr. White the following statements and recommenda-
tions:

The present state of the collection is that of only partial arrangement, and there-
fore the number of specimens cannot be given, even approximately. Their condi-
tion, however, is favorable to their complete arrangement and division into series as
soon as I shall get time and suitable assistance to do the work. A few years ago @
150 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM.

considerable quantity of duplicate specimens was set aside for exchange. Subse-
quent investigation has shown the desirability of retaining a large part of these in
the Museum, and it is therefore necessary to review them again before any are sent
out.

Since even an extensive collection of fossil invertebrates may be presumed to be less
attractive to the public than much of the material of other departments, my plans
have contemplated mainly such a classification and arrangement of the Museum col-
lection as will make it conveniently available to students for scientific purposes.
The fact that so large a part of these specimens are those upon which official reports
and other scientific writings have been based, makes it especially desirable that they
shall be made accessible to students of paleontology as early as practicable.

DEPARTMENT OF FOSSIL PLANTS.

This department, like that of fossil invertebrates, is under the honor-
ary curatorship of an officer of the United States Geological Survey,
Prof. Lester F. Ward. The collection is installed in the drawers of a
number of unit-table cases in the west south range and upon the south
balcony, contiguous to which at its east end is the laboratory of the
curator. This laboratory has during the year been filled up with cases,
and a large amount of preliminary work has been done by the curator,
who since October has been assisted by Mr. E. E. Hayden, midshipman
of the United States Navy. This collection, like many others, has been
in a quiescent state for many years, and a large amount of work has
been found necessary, preliminary to its final arrangement in proper
shape for study. No effort has as yet been made to provide exhibition
space for it. Its present condition is well shown by the following ex-
extracts from Professor Ward’s report:

The extensive collection which had been received from Mr. Leo Lesquereux, of Co-
lumbus, Ohio, who had previously employed it in the preparation of his printed re-
ports, and had catalogued and numbered it according to your instructions, was merely
unpacked during the last months of 1881, and remained at the beginning of the year
in a wholly unorganized condition. The bulk of the work done in the department
has therefore been that of systematically classifying and arranging this material. This
work was deiayed by the necessity of having appropriate cases erected in the labora-
tory rooms to receive it, as also by the lack of assistance and the performance of du-
ties in connection with the Geological Survey.

The deficiencies of a merely chronological catalogue rendered necessary the prepa-
ration of a much more complete and convenient slip catalogue, which could be sys-
tematically arranged and serve as an efficient aid in the progress of the work.

The catalogued material has been arranged in three series according to horizon,
viz, the Cretaceous (chiefly from the Dakota Group), the Tertiary (including for con-
venience the Laramie Group, which Mr. Lesquereux considers to be Eocene), and the
Carboniferous and lower formations (there being a few from the Old Red Sandstone
of Ireland, and a few from the Silurian of New York).

The system of classification adopted is, in so far as this was practicable, that of
Schimper, as given in his ‘“‘Traité de Paléontologie Végétale,” the most comprehen-
sive work on the subject.

As the greater part of the undetermined material in the department belongs to the
later formations, and as my field work for a great while will probably be chiefly con-
fined to these horizons, I have found it necessary to reserve, for the present at least,
the whole of the Cretaceous and Tertiary collection and retain it in the laboratory
as a basis for comparison and investigation. For the same reason I have not thought
REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. Toe

best to select a reserve series of the Carboniferous plants, and have prepared the
whole collection for exhibition in the cases below. It still remains on the balcony
waiting the completion of the necessary cases.

Very little was done during the year in the way of original research or towards the
elaboration of new material, owing to the time required in making these prepara-
tions.

Fifty-nine specimens of Alaskan fossils were sent in September by your instructions
to Mr. Lesquereux to be figured. These have been returned. One specimen (No. 556):
was sent, August 15, to Dr. J. S. Newberry, to be used in connection with a report to
be published by the Geological Survey.

The following is a summary exhibit of the state of the collection so far as regards
specimens which have been specifically determined :

Genera. |Species. Pusey
Carbontteroushecse-: -fscsnc so taseccnceeecsiseets cheeses 53 177 1,550
Cretaceous ee cs snap eects cue cis ls eemicesisicnecigs Secaseaee 65 142 549
ORUWALY ca aa aiisewlete cc ace ea nese das ccs bets slseaaates 121 351 1, 821
Mobaleyss dase senses cio uselaileel eames oe eeee ees eee 239 670 3, 920

The undetermined material consists chiefly of the thirty-one boxes collected by my-
self in 1881, and seven boxes collected by Captain Bendire.

DEPARTMENT OF MINERALS.

The classification of the departments of the Museum provides for three
departments in the division of geology: (XVI) physical geology, in which
branch no work has as yet been attempted; (XVII) minerals and rocks;
and (XVIII) metallurgy and economic geology. The two latter were for
nearly two years under the charge of Dr. George W. Hawes, whose
death on the 22d of June has been in many ways an irreparable loss to
the Museum.* Mr. William 8S. Yeates, aid in the staff of the Museum,
has during the year had special charge of the department of minerals,
and with the assistance of Messrs. E. E. Hayden, Henry 8S. Chase, and
EK. Wilkinson, midshipmen in the United States Navy, has been pressing
forward the work of unpacking and cataloguing the accumulated mass
of material. The number of entries on the Museum register has been
2,528, representing 3,437 specimens; of these 1,370, have been assigned to
the exhibition and reserve series, and 417 to the duplicate series; 155
have been rejected, and the remainder assigned, according to their nature,
either to the collection of rocks or ores and metallurgical products.
The card catalogue in the duplicate series has been increased during
the year by 1,261 cards. Mr. Yeates reports that such work as has been
done is that of putting in order the specimens in the old collection, a
large number of which have never been entered on the register. The

*A short biographical notice of Dr. Hawes is given at the close of this report,
together with a list of his scientific publications; and also an account of the work
planned and commenced by him in relation to the collection of building-stones,
152 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM.

work of entering these and putting the catalogue number on each
specimen has been for some time, and is now, in progress. Numbers
have been painted on 2,894 specimens, and nearly 2,000 labels have been
written. A preliminary classification has been begun, and twenty.
three sets of duplicate specimens have been distributed; some of them
as exchanges, but the majority to institutions of learning. Mr. Yeates
reports, upon the present state of the collection, that it contains 6,939
specimens in the combined reserve and exhibition series, while in the
duplicate series there are about about 7,000 specimens, making an ap-
proximate total of 14,000 specimens. During the past year 413 specimens
were added to the reserve and exhibition series, and 1,261 to the dupli-
cate series.

The mineral collection is disposed in drawers of unit cases in the
west hall of the new Museum, while a great mass of material, unas-
sorted and in process of classification, is still in the temporary work-
room in the southwest court.

The department of building-stones, which in the preliminary classi-
fication was associated with that of mineralogy, has already been re-
ported upon as one section of the department of arts and industries.

DEPARTMENT OF METALLURGY AND ECONOMIC GEOLOGY.

This department, like the preceding, has been without a head for
the greater part of the year. In July, 1882, Mr. I’. P. Dewey, previously
employed as chemical assistant to Dr. Hawes in his investigations upon
the building stones for the Tenth Census, was given temporary charge of
the department of the collection, and made some preliminary studies and
inspections. On December 1, Mr. Dewey was appointed to the eurator-
ship of the department. Active work in the department is, therefore,
hardly begun, and all that can be said concerning it is in the way of
anticipation. To this department is assigned a very large portion of the
material given to our Government by the various foreign Governments
and other exhibitors at the close of the Centennial Exhibition, which
from 1876 to 1882, was stored in the basement of the Armory Building,
and which has in part been removed to the new museum, together with
the material recently received from the permanent exhibition in Phila-
delphia and stored in the temporary building adjoining the Armory.
The curator of metallurgy and economic geology also necessarily acts as
curator of the section of metallurgy and metal-working in the department
of arts and industries, which is already in possession of great quantities
of heavy and bulky material, and which may be expected rapidly to grow
in extent and importance. This department is one of the most difficult
the Museum to manage; the material which it includes is always heavy in
and unwieldy and oftenof great bulk. Unlike many other departments,
it must place on public exhibition almost everything which it contains;
in fact, it has a greater share than any other department of material
REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 155

which is chiefly useful on account of its educational value, which for
purposes of investigations might perhaps better be examined in the
place in which it was collected. Its proper arrangement, therefore, must
be the work of several years; and, on account of the number of laborers
required to handle it, the work must be comparatively very costly.

The original intention, to the carrying out of which the Museum is in
a certain way pledged, was that the mineral resources of each particular
State should be shown separately; and, to accomplish this, it will be
necessary to secure extensive additions to the collection from almost
every State in the Union; extensive not only in number, but also in
bulk, weight, and cost of transportation.

Another difficulty in the management of this department is the
uncertainty as to its final location. At present the southwestern quar-
ter of the building, including the west hall, the southwest court, and
the two adjoining ranges, are assigned to the division of geology, to
metallurgy and metal-working. ~A portion of this space is at pres-
ent occupied by paleontological collections, but even when these are
removed the space will probably be inadequate for the accommoda-
tion even of the material already on hand. Should a new building be
erected for the Museum, these collections will naturally be the first to
be transferred, and consequently much bulky material will require to be
moved. It cannot be doubted, however, that this department will be of
greater importance to the country in an industrial way, and will interest
and benefit a larger number of the visitors to the Museum, than any
other; especially when it is so arranged as to show concisely and im-
pressively the character of the mineral resources of each State and the
methods by which the various products of the metal-working industries
are produced.

Mr. Dewey reports that in the catalogue of the collection there have
been made 3,851 entries, representing 4,772 specimens; of these 4,420
were specimens previously received from Centennial sources, and of
which no entry had been made, and 281 were specimens entered from
the old Smithsonian collection. Almost all the work done has been
upon the reserve series, especially upon the Centennial material, about
150 boxes having been unpacked and specimens identified as far as pos-
sible, and all information in regard to them put in a permanent form for
preservation. This was a work of considerable magnitude, since much
care and time were necessary in unpacking the specimens and tracing
up their records.

The southwest range is at present assigned to this department, and
in it quite a number of specimens are to be seen, although nothing
can properly be said to be on exhibition. The collection of ores from
Nevada is the only special collection which has been thoroughly exam-
ined; the records in regard to this are perfect and its condition satis-
factory.
154 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM.

‘The curator has presented the following estimate of the present con-
dition and possible future of the department:

As to the number of specimens it is not possible to give it exactly, as many speci-
mens are still packed in the boxes in which they came from Philadelphia, and with
the exception of 360 they are all as yet in the reserve series; after a careful estimate
I would place the number at about 20,000.

In general, the condition of the specimens is perhaps fair, although many of the more
showy specimens have suffered from want of proper care and attention aside from
the necessary deterioration by decomposition, generally confined to the surface, but
in some cases extending to the interior, in which case serious disintegration has been
the result. Decomposition is the chief source of deterioration of metallurgical speci-
mens, and while there are various devices for its prevention, no feasible plan has yet
been proposed to completely arrest its action.

A matter of the first importance in this departmentis a collection for the study of the
science of metallurgy, which need not be large, as it will contain little or no duplicate
material, and will be designed to show the following points in the production of the
metals: the natural occurrence of the various ores of each metal, together with the
prominent associated material ; the natural occurrence of such materials as are neces-
sary in the refining of the ores; the various processes for the extraction of the natural
occurring material showing the plans and methods of exploration and working
principally by means of models and drawings, and, where practicable, by the exhi-
bition of specimens of the tools actually used; the various steps in the treatment
of the ores from the time they leave the mines until they are converted into the com-
mercial metals, with specimens of the various intermediate products and plans and
models of the machines, furnaces, &c., brought into requisition during the processes;
(this is perhaps the least satisfactory part of the present collections in the Museum,
and one that should be increased as rapidly as possible ;) and, finally, the various forms
in which the different metals are produced and placed upon the market, together with
the incidental products, especially such as can be utilized.

By far the greatest portion of the collection, however, should be arranged upon a
geographical basis, whereby the ores and products of certain regions would be grouped
together, and, when possible, the connection between the various regions should be
clearly indicated. In the arrangement of this collection a somewhat different plan
should be followed from that adopted in the scientific collection, as in this case there
will be of necessity considerable duplication of specimens, and prominence should be
given to peculiarities in occurrences and composition of the ores, and the modifications
thereby necessitated in the usual course of treatment. This collection will require
constant care and attention to keep it abreast of the progress of development, which
is very rapid in this country where many new regions are being explored and devel-
oped every year, and where the varying conditions found in isolated regions lead to in-
teresting and important modifications in processes, which should be examined and made
available to the rest of the world. It is also very desirable to have suites of speci-
mens showing the changes occurring in the composition and character of ores from
the surface tothe greatest depth attained, but these cannot be obtained after a mine
has been in operation a fewyears. At the same time, as regions decline in importance,
and processes become antiquated and pass out of use, a judicious culling out of unim-
portant material could be made with advantage. There is one field which the depart-
ment could with propriety occupy, namely, the collection of the literature of American
metallurgy, which is at present very restricted, a condition readily explained by the
fact that metallurgical knowledge has a high commercial value which its possessors
desire to retain, from purely selfish motives. Such books as there are upon metallur-
gical subjects are mainly of European origin, and their ignorance and silence upon de-
velopments in metallurgy made in this country are so great as to make them valueless
for application here except so far as broad general principles are concerned. There
REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 155

have been many and great advances in metallurgy made in this country, and a com-
plete record of their development would be a valuable contribution to knowledge. It
is but just to say that, asa rule, American metallurgists have written and published
. far more than their European brethren, but there is still room for improvement. The
majority of papers by American writers are scattered through various society-journals
and other periodicals, so that the student is obliged to waste a great deal of time in
tiresome search through a large amount of (to him). valueless matter.

DEPARTMENT OF EXPLORATION AND FIELD WORK.

The explorations which have been made, especially in the interest of
the National Museum have been, as hitherto, under the immediate di-
rection of the Smithsonian Institution, from whose funds the expenses
have been for the most part defrayed. The details are given at length in
the report of the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution. Various
officers of the Museum have been attached, especially during the summer
months, to the service of the United States Fish Commission, the Geo-
logical Survey, and the Bureau of Ethnology of the Smithsonian Insti-
tution, while others, more or less affiliated with the Museum, have been
engaged in field work incidentally in connection with their duties as
employees of the Coast Survey and the Signal Service of the Army.

DEPARTMENT OF CHEMISTRY.

The chemical laboratory occupies the two upper stories of the south-
west pavilion, and the chemist, Mr. Frederick W. Taylor, has been
engaged in the solution of many questions in chemistry and economic
geology, proposed by the other departments of the Museum or by out-
side departments of the Government. The chemist reports that, in an-
swer to letters received from the Director, he has made 119 reports, 15
being letters in response to queries submitted to the Smithsonian Insti-
tution; 70 being reports of qualitative analyses of specimens received
by the Institution, and identifying 93 specimens of minerals, rocks, and
ores. Thirty-four reports have been made representing 65 quantitative
anaylses, and involving 274 determinations. '

One of the most interesting of the investigations was made for the
chairman of the Heuse Committee on Ways and Means for the purpose
of determining the possibility of extracting the methylic alcohol from
the ethyl alcohol contained in English methylated spirit. Another was
the analysis of eight samples of zinc-covered or galvanized-iron tele-
graph wire for the Signal Office of the War Department, the object
being to find some explanation of the different degrees of resistance to
an electric current exerted by the different wires.

The main work of the laboratory has, however, been the examination
of questions in economic geology, involving the analyses of numerous
specimens of iron ore, coke, gold and silver ore, of natural brines, and
of soda incrustations from Nevada, the latter for the United States Geo-
logical Survey.
156 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM.

The chemist makes the following statements upon the present condi-
tion of the laboratory:

The present condition of the chemical laboratory is, with very few exceptions, most
promising. In the balance-room we have three No. 7 analytical balances, one large
analytical balance to carry one kilogramme, one assay button balance, one small so-
called prescription scale, one pulp scale for assay charges, and one Jolly’s balance for
specific gravity determinations.

Ample facilities for the preparation of samples for analysis are provided, the labo-
ratory being provided with a small Blake crusher for reducing samples to small frag-
meuts, a ‘‘ buck plate ” for assay samples, and a number of valuable agate mortars for
preparing samples of silicates, rocks, &c., where iron cannot be used.

The facilities for assaying are good, there being three furnaces for that purpose, one
for crucibles, and two for searification and cupellation. The stock of glassware is good,
as alsothe porcelain. The main feature of the laboratory, however, is the fine stock
of platinum ware in the form of dishes and crucibles, the laboratory possessing 19
platinum dishes holding from 50 cubic centimeters to nearly half a liter, and 25 plat-
inum crucibles. In addition to the 2,070 grammes spoken of, the Institution has pur-
chased at different times about 700 grammes of platinum, this being purchased before
we had received the addition from Newport, making in all about 2,770 grammes of
metal, representing a money value of over eleven hundred dollars.

In regard to the general arrangements of the rooms of the laboratory a full descrip-
tion will be found in the report of the Institution for 1881. The main room is fitted
with white-pine desks, one running across the entire width of the room against the
south wall, the other being placed against the third wall, besides which there are
cases for chemicals and apparatus, and afume chamber. The balance room is hand-
somely fitted up with cases of black walnut and contains a heavy black walnut table
for the balances. The third floor of the building has also been fitted up during the
year with a substantial double desk. During the past year the supply of water has
been entirely insufficient, or rather the pressure has been insufficient, causing much
annoyance, the flow often ceasing for the greater part of the day; and should the en-
gineer desire to fill his boilers no water can be had on the laboratory floor during the
process. Frequently the operation of distilling water for use in making analysis
had been suspended for lack of water to cool the condenser. To remedy this evil,
the chemist would suggest that a tank be placed on the roof of the building and con-
nected with the feed pump for the boilers in the engine room by a suitable arrange-
ment of valves; this could be so arranged as to supply the upper or third floor contin-
uously, being used on the second floor only when the ordinary supply should fail.

DEPARTMENT OF EXPERIMENTAL PHYSIOLOGY.

Mr. John A. Ryder, embryologist of the United States Fish Commis-
sion, has occupied during the year a laboratory fitted up for micro-
scopic work, and especially for embryological investigations, in the
Armory building, and has carried on several important investigations
upon the embryology of fishes and oysters. The laboratory has been
filled up with considerable completeness, chiefly at the expense of the
Fish Commission.

A list of Mr. Ryder’s publications will be found in the appended bib-
liography.

The Museum has furnished a considerable amount of material to Dr.
S. Weir Mitchell, of Philadelphia, who is engaged in investigating the
venom of the rattlesnake, and also a number of specimens to Dr. John
J. Mason, of Philadelphia, for his studies upon the brain.
REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 157

In connection with the Fish Commission work some very important
experiments have been made by Colonel MacDonald and Mr. Ryder
upon the retardation of the developement of the eggs of shad and other
fishes. :

Involuntary experiments have been made in this department dur-
ing the year by Dr. Rk. W. Shufeldt and Mr. A. Z. Shindler, of the
Museum, the former having been bitten by a Heloderma suspectum, and
having described his experience in the ‘‘ American Naturalist,” Novem-
ber, 1882, Vol. XVI, No. 11, the latter having suffered a like mishap while
handling a specimen of Hlaps fulvius, as described by Mr. F. W. True
in the “ American Naturalist,” 1882, Vol. — page —.

DEPARTMENT OF VIVARIA.

A number of living animals are on exhibition in the rotunda of the
new building and seem to afford much amusement and instruction to
visitors. This department, while of but little service in the general
disposition of the collection, is well suited for the exhibition of a few
cases of living animals; and I am inclined to believe that fifteen or
twenty characteristic forms might be obtained and maintained here at
trifling expense, while serving an excellent purpose in illustrating and
supplementing the preparations in the Museum eases.

At present, the following mammals are thus exhibited:

A Red-footed Douroucouli, or Owl Monkey (Nyctipithecus rufipes, Sela-
ter), from Costa Rica; two Pinches, or White-tufted Marmosets (@dipus
titi, Lesson), from Chiriqui, Colombia; a young Mexican Deer (Cariacus
mexicanus, Gmelin), from Chiriqui, Colombia. All these specimens were
presented to the Museum by Capt. John M. Dow.

In the same room is also a large case in which at various times
throughout the year many species of American snakes have been shown.
Upon these the curator of herpetology has made the following report:

The vivarium for reptiles continues to prove of the greatest interest to visitors, and
it is hoped a sufficient number of living specimens may be sent to render it still more
popular. In connection with it, a most instructive and interesting event occurred
early in the summer, namely, the birth of 109 young snakes (Tropidonotus sipedon).
The act of parturition was carefully observed, and it is the intention of the curator
to publish a paper upon the subject.

There is little trouble in keeping the harmless reptiles alive in captivity for an in-
definite length of time, provided proper food can be obtained; but with regard to the
Crotalus and Ancistrodon, as yet our efforts have failed to induce them to feed.

It has been noticed, also, that quite a numberof our specimens die from necrosis
of the jaw, an experience which has, it is believed, been shared by nearly every
museum and zoological garden in the world.

Early this year a very fine and extremely large rattlesnake (Crotalus adamanteus)
was received from Florida, and shortly after an equally large kingsnake (Ophibolus
getulus), and it was determined to test the popular belief as to the antagonism exist-
ing between the two species. They were accordingly placed in a large case, the bot-
tom of which was covered with sand, and allowed to remain together for some time.
No hostilities took place, and it was noticed that neither species appeared to fear the:
other. Perhaps under more natural surroundings the case may be different.
158 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM.

It has been found necessary to keep king-snakes apart from the others, as their canni-
balistic tendencies are well developed.

In the months of September and October copulation was noticed between some fine
examples of the indigo snake (Spilotes erebennus) in the vivarium, and it is aoped
young specimens may be secured as a result.

In the basin of the fountain in the rotunda are kept living fishes of
the following species :

1. Cyprinus carpio (Linné). a scale carp; 6b leather carp.

2. Carassius auratus (L.) Bleeker. Goldfish; a common form; } triple-
tail form.

3. Hybrid between Nos. 1 and 2. 4, Idus melanotus (Heckel).

In a tank in the same room are shown two specimens of albino axo-
lotls (Siredon pisciformis), which were bred by M. Carbonnier in Paris,
France, from other albinos which were the progeny of a pair of black
axolotls.

Nearly all the living species of North American Testudinata are kept
in confinement in one of the smaller inclosures on the carp ponds on
Monument lot, where they remain for purposes of acclimation.

Fishes of the following species are cultivated in the carp ponds:

1. Cyprinus carpio (Linné). ascale carp; b mirror carp; c leather carp.
2. Idus melanotus (Heckel). Leuciscus idus (Gthr.). Nerfling; Orfe;
Golden Tench; Ide. 3. Tinca vulgaris (Cuv.). Tench.

These ponds are under the control of the Director of the Museum, and
the details of their management are described in his report as Commis-
sioner of Fisheries. Many American species of fish have also during a
part of the year been kept in aquarium tanks in the Armory Building,
where during the spring months extensive operations in connection
with the hatching of fish have been carried on, which have been wit-
nessed by large numbers of visitors.

OBITUARY NOTICE OF DR. G. W. HAWES.

GEORGE WESSON HAWES was born December 31, 1848, in Marion,
Ind., and died of quick consumption June 22, 1882, in Manitou Springs,
Colo., whither he had gone in the hope of benefit to his health.
Both his parents were natives of Massachusetts; and both died while he
was very young. His father was the Rev. Alfred Hawes, a missionary
of the American Home Missionary Society, stationed at Marion, Ind.
His early days passed under the care of a lady in Worcester, Mass., a
friend of his parents whom he regarded as his foster-mother.

His taste for scientific studies was early manifest, and, having been
for some years a student in the High School, Worcester, at the age of
seventeen he entered the Sheffield Scientific School at New Haven, to
which with some intermissions he was attached for fifteen years in the
capacities of student, laboratory assistant, and instructor. From 1867
REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 159

_to 1871, he was engaged in business pursuits in Boston, but returneé to
graduate with the class of 1872, four years later tuan would otherwise
have been the case. The first year after his graduation he was private
assistant to Prof. 8. W. Johnson in the chemical laboratory, subse-
quently until 1880 assistant and instructor in mineralogy and blow-pipe
analysis in the Sheffield Scientific School. The summer of 1878 he de-
voted to the study of microscopic lithology in Breslau, under Prof. A.
Lasaulx, and from March, 1879, to June, 1880, was studying mineralogy
and crystallography at Bonn with Professor vom Rath, and lithology
with Professor Rosenbusch at Heidelberg. He received the degree of
doctor of philosophy from the University of Heidelberg in 1880.

In the fall of 1880, he accepted the position of curator of the Depart-
ment of Economic Geology in the National Museum, and about the same
time was appointed special agent of the Tenth Census in charge of the
building-stone investigation. His strength was too heavily taxed by
close study in the hot summer of 1881, and in the fall he found himself
unable to continue his work. A month at the Warm Springs in Vir-
ginia failed to restore his vigor, and on his return it was ascertained
that incipient lung trouble existed. He decided to spend the winter in
the Bermudas, hoping that the mild air of a southern ocean would
restore him to health. On his return in May it was evident to us all
that his days of life were few, and as we bade him good-bye, when he
set forth for Colorado, we could scarcely hope to see him again.

In the early part of his student life he paid much attention to bio-
logical studies, and in the summer of 1872 was one of the party accom-
panying the United States Fish-Commission at its summer station at
Eastport, Me. Later he became an enthusiastic botanist and published
a most admirable work upon the flora of New Haven and vicinity.
After finally selecting a specialty he devoted himself to it with untiring
zeal, and. at the time of his death had piaced himself in the front rank
of American mineralogists and lithologists. His future was rich in
promise. He regarded his life work as just begun, and his chief regret,
as he often expressed it to me, was that he had to leave a task which
he had for so many years been laying out and preparing himself for.
‘His death,” remarks Dr. Rosenbusch in the Neues Jahrbuch fiir Min-
eralogie, ‘‘has deprived science of an enthusiastic and unusually gifted
servant.” He was possessed of unusual executive ability, and his asso-
ciates in the Museum often wondered at the ease with which he organ-
ized and conducted his own department. He had published twenty
or more memoirs upon mineralogical and lithological topics, promi-
nent among which are his studies upon contact zones in the Albany
granites, and the Mesozoic diabase of Connecticut. His largest work was
the Mineralogy and Lithology of New Hampshire, constituting volume
IV of the Reports of the State Geologist. He regarded the investiga-
tion of the building stones of the United States, which he had just taken
in hand, as the great work of his life, and had laid out an extremely
160 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM.

comprehensive scheme for its prosecution. The report upon this sub-:
ject, soon to be published by the Census Bureau, his in conception and
chiefly the product of his labors, will undoubtedly be the finest of its
kind ever prepared. The National Museum contains an imperishable
monument to his memory in the magnificent collection of building
stones which he gathered—a collection far surpassing any other in the
world.

Hawes was a man of upright and noble character—a character shaped
by a reverent faith in the teachings of the Christian religion. Like
many men trained in the methods of scientific thought, he felt unable
to agree with the doctrines of any sect, but in our conversations he
asserted his belief in the Christian revelation, and all who know him
must feel that his life was shaped by this belief.

LIST OF PAPERS BY DR. G. W. HAWES.*

[Experiments on the use of potassium dichromate.] Published in an
article by Prof. S. W. Johnson on the use of potassium dichromate
in ultimate organic analyses.

(American Journal of Science, 1874, v1, p. 466.)

On a feldspar from Bamle, in Norway.

(Am. Journal of Science, 1874, v1, p. 579.)

Gives the results of chemical analyses of a feldspar identical with or closely
allied to oligoclase.

On the chemical composition of the wood of acrogens.

(Am. Jour. of Science, 1874, vii, p. 585.)

Gives the results of twelve chemical analyses as made by the author upon
acrogens of the following species: Lycopodium dendroideum, L. complanatum,
Equisetum hyemale, Aspidium marginale, Cyathea canaliculata.

[Analysis of a serpentine pseudomorph, and examination of brucite.]
In J. D. Dana’s “‘Serpentine pseudomorphs from the Tilly Foster
mine.”

(Am. Jour. of Science, 1874, v111, pp. 451-453.)

[Analysis of chondrodite from the Tilly Foster mine.] In Prof. E. 8.
Dana’s memoir on chondrodite.
(Transactions of the Connecticut Academy of Arts and Sciences, 1875, 1m,
p- 86.)
The trap rocks of the Connecticut Valley.

(Am. Jour. of Science, 1875, 1x, pp. 185-192.)
Gives the results of several chemical analyses of the dolerites and diabases
of the Connecticut Valley.

On diabantite, a chlorite occurring in the trap of the Connecticut Valley.
(Am. Jour. of Science, 1875, rx, pp. 454-457.)

Gives the analysis of a variety of chlorite found in the trap of the Connect-
icut Valley. ;

*This bibliography was prepared by George P. Merrill.
REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. “6 TG

On zonochlorite and chlorastrolite.
(Am. Jour. of Science, 1875, x, pp. 24-26.)
Concludes from chemical and microscopic examination that these are not
true mineral species, but rather impure varieties of phrenite. Reviewed by
Rosenbusch in the Neues Jahrbuch for 1875, p. 750.

{Analysis of durangite.] In Prof. G. J. Brush’s article on ‘‘The chemical
composition of durangite.”
(Am. Jour. of Science, 1876, x1, p. 464.)

The rocks of the “‘Chloritic formation” on the western border of the
New Haven region.

(Am. Jour. of Science, 1876, x1, pp. 122-126.)

Gives the results of microscopic and chemical examinations of certain met-
amorphic rocks in the vicinity of New Haven, Conn. Concludes that they are
true dolerites, diabases, and metaphyres, and distinguishes them from similar
eruptive rocks by the prefix meta.

On a lithia-bearing variety of biotite.
(Am. Jour. of Science, 1876, x1, pp. 431-432.)
Finds that the black biotite from the feldspar quarries of Portland, Conn.,
contains some 0.95 per cent. of lithia, which replaces a part of the potash.

On the greenstones of New Hampshire and their organic remains.

(Am. Jour. of Science, 1876, x11, pp. 129-137, 1 plate.)

Gives the result of numerous chemical and microscopic examinations of the
so-called greenstones of New Hampshire, and also describes and figures cer-
tain forms contained in them, which appear to be of organic origin. These
forms, which excited considerable interest at the time, proved, on further
examination, to be but the peculiar skeleton-like forms left by decomposing
titanic iron.

On grains of metallic iron in dolerites from New Hampshire.
(Am. Jour. of Science, 1877, x1H, pp. 33-35.)

Mineralogy and lithology of New Hampshire, by George W. Hawes, in-
structor in mineralogy in the Sheffield Scientific School of Yale Col-
lege. Part IV, of the third volume of the Geology of New Hamp-
shire, 262 pp., royal 8vo, with 12 plates. Concord, N. H., 1878.

This, the most important work of the author’s life, gives the results or
extensive research upon the chemical and microscopic properties of what may
be regarded as typical rocks and minerals of New Hampshire. It also con-
tains extensive notes upon the external characters, economic value, and gen-
eral distribution of the rocks over the State, together with a short treatise
upon the method of study with the microscope.

The rocks of the “Chloritic formation” on the western border of the
New Haven region.

(Am. Jour. of Science, 1878, xv, p. 219.)

A uote on the previous paper published in this journal, x1, 1876, p. 122.
The author finds on further examination that a certain mineral, supposed at
first to be a pyroxene, is hornblende, and that the rock belongs therefore to
the diorite group.

H. Mis. 26——11
162 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM.

On liquid carbonic acid in syenite.
(Am. Jour. of Science, 1878, XVI, p. 234.)
Ashort note taken from the author’s ‘‘ Report on the mineralogy and lithe
elogy of New Hampshire.”

On leucoxene in the New Hampshire diorites.

(Am. Jour. of Science, 1878, XVI, p. 396.)
A short note taken from the author’s ‘‘Report on the mineralogy and lith-
ology of New Hampsbkire.”

On the association of pyroxene and hornblende.

(Am. Jour. of Science, 1878, xvi, p. 397.)
A short note taken from the author’s ‘‘Report on the mineralogy and lith-
ology of New Hampshire.”

On a group of dissimilar eruptive rocks in Campton, N. H.

(Am. Jour. of Science, 1879, xviI, pp. 147-151.)

Describes five closely adjoining dikes cutting a mica schist in Campton,
N. H., which, upon examination, prove to be composed of diabase, olivene
diabase, diorite, and syenite. Gives chemical analyses.

An account of recent progress in geology, for the years 1879 and 1880.

(Smithsonian Report, 1880, pp. 221-234.)
Also published separate in pamphlet form.

An account of recent progress in mineralogy, for the years 1879 and 1880.

(Smithsonian Report, 1880, pp. 229-312.)
Also published separate in pamphlet form.

The Albany granite, New Hampshire, and its contact phenomena.

(Am. Jour. of Science, 1881, xx1, pp. 21-32.)

Describes the chemical and structural change produced in the eruptive
Albany granite, and the adjoining argillitic mica schist at their point of con-
tact. The rocks were studied both chemically and microscopically.

An abstract of this paper by H. Rosenbusch was afterward given in the
Neues Jahrbuch fiir Mineralogie, &c., 1882, 1. Band, 1. Heft, pp. 464-465.

On liquid carbon dioxide in smoky quartz.

(Am. Jour. of Science, 1881, xx1, pp. 203-209.)

The author finds the smoky quartz of Branchville, Conn., to be particularly
rich in cavities, containing carbonic acid in both the liquid and gaseous state.
Considers that the motion of these included bubbles is due to changes in
external temperature. The paper is supplemented by a communication by
Mr. A. W. Wright, giving the results of chemical examinations of the gases
and liquids contained in these cavities.

On the mineralogical composition of the normal Mesozoic diabases
upon the Atlantic border.

(Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., 1881, Iv, pp. 129-134.)

This paper gives the results of several chemical and microscopic examina-
tions of the rocks, showing that their composition is somewhat more complex
than is generally supposed; that two varieties of plagioclase are generally
present. The paper was reviewed by Prof. J. D. Dana, in American Jour.
of Science, xx1I, 3d series, 1881, p. 230. Also reviewed by H. Rosenbusch in
Neues Jahrbuch fiir Mineralogie und Geologie, 1882, I, iii, p. 414.
REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 163

On the determination of feldspars in thin sections of rocks.

(Proc. Nat. Mus., 1881, Iv, pp. 134-136.)

The author gives as the result of his experience that grave errors are liable
to arise through relying altogether upon optical methods for determining
feldspars in thin sections, since, owing to the uncertain angle at which the
crystals are cut, it is not only not possible at all times to distinguish with
certainty between the different varieties of plagioclase, but at times they can
with great difficulty be distinguished from orthoclase.

On a phosphatic sandstone from Hawthorne, Fla.

(Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., 1882, v, pp. 46-48.)

Gives the results of microscopic and chemical analysis of a phosphatic
sandstone from Hawthorne. The stone was found to contain some 16 per
cent. of phosphoric acid.

Brief abstracts and reviews of papers by American authors, published by
Dr. Hawes in the Neues Jahrbuch fiir Mineralogie, Geologie, und Pala-
eontologie.

B. J. Harrington. Notes on chrome-garnet, phyrhotite, and
titaniferous iron ore. Proc. Canadian Natural History Society,

May, 1880.—H. Bb. Cornwall. Gallium in American blende.

Am. Chem. Jour., April 1880, p. .—Peter Collier. Analysis

of a mineral resembling thorite. Jour. Amer. Chem. Soc., x1,

ii, p. 73.—F. W. Clark and M. E. Owens. On a new variety of

tetrahedrite. Am. Chem. Jour., June, 1880, p. 173.

(Neues Jahrbuch, 1881, x1, ii pp. 174-175.)

George J. Brush. On American sulpho-selenides of mercury
with analysis of onofrite from Utah, by W. G. Comstock.
Am. Jour. Science, xvi, April, 1881.—F. A. Genth and W. C.
Kerr. The minerals and mineral localities of North Carolina,
being Chapter I of Vol. 11 of the Geology of North Carolina,
p. 122. Raleigh, 1881.—Henry C. Lewis. On Philadelphite, a
new mineral species. Proc. Phil. Acad. Nat. Sciences, Decem-
ber 22, 1879.—Wm. P. Blake. Occurrence of realgar and orpi-
ment (auripigment) in Utah Territory. Am. Jour. Science,
March, 1881, p. 219.—W. EK. Hidden. On the Whitfield County,
Georgia, meteoric iron. Am. Jour. Science, April, 1881,
p. 287

(Neues Jahrbuch, 1881, XI, iii, pp. 337-343.)

A.R.C. Selwyn. Geological survey of Canada; report of progress
for 1878~79.—D. Honeyman. Geological waifs from the Mag-
dalen Islands.—D. Honeyman, D. C. L. Nova Scotia geology.
Notes on a new geological map of Pictou County. Proceedings
and Transactions of the Nova Scotia Institute of Natural
Sciences, Halifax, 1880, Vol. v, pp. 119, 136, 192.—Eugene A.
Smith On the geology of Florida. Am. Jour. Science, April,
1881, p. 292.—Geo. M. Wheeler. Annual Report upon the
Geographical Survey of the Territory of the United States
west of the 100th meridian. Appendix OO of the Annual
164

REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM.

Report of the Chief of Engineers for 1879. 338 pages. An
atlas of six maps; also several large maps with the text.— War-
ren Upham. The geology of Central and Western Minnesota.
A preliminary report. Saint Paul, Minn. 33 pp.—Edward
Orton. Review of stratigraphical geology in Eastern Ohio,
from the annual report of the secretary of state, 1879. Colum-
bus, Ohio, 1880. pp. 33.—C. G. Rockwood, jr. Notices of re-
cent American earthquakes. Am. Jour. Science, March, 1881,
p. 183.
(Neues Jahrbuch, 1881, x1, iii, pp. 373-376. )

R. P. Whitefield. Notice of the occurrence of rocks representing

the Marcellas shales of New York in Central Ohio. Proc. Am.
Assoc., Saratoga meeting, August, 1879, p. 297.—H. M. Chance.
The millstone grit in England and Pennsylvania. Am. Jour.
Science, February 1881, xx1, p. 137.—Andrew S. McCreath.
Second report of progress in the laboratory of the second geolo-
gical survey of Pennsylvania. J. P. Lesley, State geologist.
Containing communications by Professor Frazier, F. Platt,
and J. P. Lesley. 438 pp.--Persifer Frazer. The geology of
Lancaster County, second geological survey of Pennsylvania.—
M. E. Wadsworth. Notes on the geology of the iron and cop-
per districts of Lake Superior. Bulletin of the Museum of
Comparative Zoology at Harvard College, geological series, 1,
July, 1880. 157 pp.—Geology of Wisconsin. Vol. 111, survey
of 1873-79. T. C. Chamberlin, State geologist. 763 pp.—
Geological survey of Alabama; report of progress for 1877
78. Eugene A. Smith, State geologist, 138 pp.—C. E. Dutton.
Report on the geology of the high plateaus of Utah, 1850.—
Alexis A. Julien. On the geological action of the humus acids.

Proc. Am. Association, August, 1879, pp. 311-411.—W. C.

Kerr. The mica veins of North Carolina. Transactions Am.
Inst.—Mining Engineers, Feb., 1880.—J. 8S. Diller. The fels-
ites and their associated rocks north of Boston.—Proc. Boston
Soc. of Nat. Hist., Jan. 21, 1880, p. 385.—J. Peter Lesley. Sec-
ond geological survey of Pennsylvania. Reports from 1874 to
1880.

(Neues Jabrbuch, 1881, x1, ili, pp. 380-390.)

Dr. Hawes assisted in the preparation of the following works, which
should be added in order that the list may be complete:
A catalogue of the flowering plants and higher cryptograms growing

without cultivation within thirty miles of Yale College. Published
by the Berzelius Society, New Haven, 1878.

A manual of determinative mineralogy, with an introduction on blow-

pipe-analysis, by George J. Brush, professor of mineralogy in the
Sheffield Scientific School of Yale College.
REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 165

THE COLLECTION OF BUILDING STONES.

About the time that Dr. Hawes entered upon his duties as a curator
at the National Museum he also assumed charge of that branch of the
Tenth Census relating to the quarrying industries of the United States.
His plan was to make acomplete census of all the quarries of stone worked
in the country, to ascertain the amount and value of their productions,
the number of men employed, and all the facts usually included in cen-
sus reports; in addition to which it was hoped to gain a large amount
of information of more strictly scientific interest. In order to carry out
his plans, special agents or collectors were employed, in all cases in
which it was possible, men of scientific attainments, whose education and
training had especially fitted them for the work, who were to visit the
quarries in person and gather all necessary facts of economic import-
ance relative to the industry, besides which they were instructed to col-
lect all additional facts possible of scientific importance but perhaps of
less practical value. Among the printed questions to be answered rela-
tive to each quarry were the following: “Kind of rock quarried?”
‘Geological age of formation?” “ Structure of natural blocks as regards
stratification and jointing?” ‘“ How large a block can be obtained?”
‘‘ Principal uses for which it is employed?” &c.; or, if the stone was
used for ornamental purposes only, there were added such questions as,
* What are the qualities that render this stone desirable for ornamental
purposes ?” and, “Is it suitable for ornaments exposed to the weather ?”.

From each quarry two specimens, or more if the character of the rock
seemed to require it in order to represent it in all its varieties, of suffi-
cient size to be dressed into four-inch cubes, were forwarded by mail
to the Museum for further examination. Here a corps of aids and
assistants was employed to work up the material as it came in. Each
specimen on its arrival, after being catalogued, was placed in the hands
of stone-cutters who dressed them into four-inch cubes the different faces
of the cubes being finished as follows : Polished in front, drafted and
pointed on the left side; drafted rock face upon the right side; rock
face behind, and smooth sanded or chiseled upon the top and bottom.
This preparation was modified to suit individual cases; for example,
sandstones which do not polish, had the front face simply rubbed
smooth. The specimens thus prepared were placed in suitable exhibi-
tion cases and properly labelled, where they might be examined by all
who wished.

The chips made in the process of dressing were carefully saved to be
utilized in chemical and microscopic analyses. Also specimens from
each quarry, so far as practicable, were to be submitted to proper tests,
to ascertain their powers of resistance to pressure. Special tests were
also to be made to learn the absorptive properties of the various kinds
of stone; their specific gravity and weight per cubic foot; their powers
of resistance to the effect of heat and frost, together with the effect of
166 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM.

certain included minerals upon their weathering properties. Prepara-
tions were made for extensive chemical analyses, and several hundred
thin sections prepared for microscopic study.

The final report was to be published in quarto form and to contain, in .
addition to extensive articles upon the subjects already mentioned,
chapters on the history of the quarrying industry of the United States,
and upon rock weathering and decomposition as illustrated in the stone
buildings of the principal cities of the country. It was also to contain
numerous plates showing the rocks both as they appear to the naked
eye and as seen in thin sections under the microscope. A|so illustrations
of some of the principal quarries and of special machinery used in
quarrying and dressing stone.

When it became evident that Dr. Hawes could no longer continue his
work it was placed in other hands for continuation, but the long delay
already caused by his illness rendered its full completion impossible
within the limits of time prescribed by the census, and it was therefore
greatly abbreviated. Had he been able to carry out his plans as origi-
nally intended, this would, beyond all doubt, have been the most impor-
tant work upon the subject of building stones ever produced in this or
any other country.
REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 167

APPENDIX A.—LIST OF OFFICERS, JANUARY 1, 1883..

SPENCER F. BAIRD....... Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution ; Director.

G: BROWN GOODE.:-.---- Assistant Director; Curator, Dep’t of Art and Industry..
TARLETON H. BEAN...... Curator, Dep’t Ichthyology, and Editor of ‘‘Proceedings.”
Wi IGTAM: Fo DAT. 222. Honorary Curator, Department of Mollusks.
FREDERICK P. DEWEY.. Assistant Curator, in charge of Department of Metallurgy,
EAVES Me SE TNG se. 2. any Honorary Curator, Section of Materia Medica.

EDWARD FOREMAN....-.. Assistant, Department of Ethnography.

GEORGE P. MERRILL .... Assistant, Section of Building Stones.

RICHARD RATHBUN...... Assistant Curator, in charge Dep’t of Marine Invertebrates.
CHARDES WAU. 22. seo. a. Curator, Department of Archeology.

ROBERT RIDGWAY ......- Curator, Department of Birds.

CHARLES V. RILEY -.-.--- Honorary Curator, Department of Insects.

FREDERICK W. TAYLOR.. Chemist.
FREDERICK W. TRUE..... Librarian ; Acting Curator, Department of Mammals.
CHARLES D. WALCOTT... Honorary Ass’t Curator, Dep’t of Invertebrate Fossils.

THESE RGB VW ALD esc ecee Honorary Curator, Department of Fossil Plants.
CHARLES A. WHITE...... Curator, Department of Invertebrate Fossils.
EUEINIR YS Co VAR ROW! co so-- Honorary Curator, Department of Herpetology.
WILLIAM §S. YEATES...... Acting Curator, Department of Minerals.

APPENDIX B.—BIBLIOGRAPHY OF PUBLICATIONS OF THE
MUSEUM FOR 1882.

I.—PAPERS BY OFFICERS OF THE MUSEUM.

BEAN, TARLETON H. A partial bibliography of the fishes of the Pa:
cific coast of the United States and of Alaska, for the year 1880.
(Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., 1881, Iv, pp. 312-317.)
Notes on fishes collected by Capt. Chas. Bendire, U.S. A., in
Washington Territory and Oregon, May to October, 1881.
(Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., 1882, v, pp. 89-93. )
—— Note on the occurrence of a Silvery Lamprey (Ichthyomyzon
castaneus Girard) in Louisiana.
(Proc. U. 8. Nat. Mus., 1882, v, pp. 117-119.)
Notes on birds collected in Alaska and Eastern Siberia during
the summer of 1880.
(Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus. 1882, v, pp. 144-173.)

168 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM.

BEAN, TARLETON H. Translation of note on the habits and the rearing

of the Axolotl (Amblystoma mexicanum), by M. Carbonnier.
(Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., 1882, v, pp. 221-222.)

— — Notes on acollection of fishes made by Capt. Henry E. Nichols,
U.S. N., in British Columbia and Southern Alaska, with descrip-
tions of new species and a new genus (Delolepis).

(Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., 1882, v, pp. 463-474.)

List of publications of the United States National Museum.

(Bull. U. S. Nat. Mus., No. 18, pp. 1-12.)

Notes on a shipment, by the United States Fish Commission

of California salmon (Oncorhynchus chouicha) to Tanner’s Creek,

Indiana, in 1876.

(Bull. U. S. Fish Com., 1882, 1, pp. 204-205.)

Account of a shipment, by the United States Fish Commission,

of California salmon-fry (Oncorhynchus chouicha) to Southern Louis-

jana, with a note on some collections made at Tickfaw.
(Bull. U. S. F. C., 1882, 1, pp. 205-206. )

(J. W. Collins.) An inquiry as to the capture of young codfish
in Chesapeake Bay.
(Bull. U. 8. F. C., 1882, 1, pp. 401-402. )

— Directions for collecting and preserving fish.
(Forest and Stream, No. 25, Jan. 19, 1882, xvul, p. 492.)
A reprint from Proc. U. 8. Nat. Mus., 1881, Iv, pp. 235-238.
— Rainbow and other Pacific trout.
(Forest and Stream, June 15, 1882, xv, pp. 389-390.)
See also GOODE and BEAN.
DALL, WILLIAM H. On the genera of Chitons.
(Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus. 1881, 1v, pp. 279-291.)
The currents and temperatures of Bering Sea and the adjacent
waters.
(Report U.S. Coast Survey for 1880, App. No. 16.)
Separate 4to, p.46, maps and section, March, 1882.

On certain Limpets and Chitons from the deep waters off the
Eastern coast of the United States.

(Proc. U.S. Nat. Mus. 1881, Iv, pp. 400-414. )

Reprinted in Ann. and Mag, Nat. Hist., London, x (1882), 11-26.

List of papers by William Healey Dall, assistant, U. S. Coast
Survey, honorary curator, U. 8S. National Museum. 1866-1882.
Washington: Judd & Detweiler, printers, 8vo, pp. 11.

Notes on Alaska Tertiary deposits.
(Amer. Journ. Sci., July, 1882, xxv, pp. 67, 68.)

——— Biographical sketch. [Charles Darwin.]
(Proc. Biol. Soc. Wash., 1882, J, pp. 56-59.
Read before the society May 12, 1882, on the occasion of the Darwin memo-
rial meeting.
REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 169

DALL, WILLIAM H. Address by William H. Dall, vice-president, sec-
tion F, before the section of Biology, American Association for the
Advancement of Science, Montreal meeting, August 23, 1882.
Salem, printed at the Salem Press, 1882, 8vo, pp. 16.

Species in Buccinum.

(Nachricht. d. deuts. malakozool. Gesells., Aug.—Sept., 1882, pp. 118-121.)
—— Zum Kapitel der “ Natural Selection.”

(Nachricht. d. deuts. malakozool. Gesells., Oct., pp. 145-149.)
— Dall iiber das Klima von Alaska.

(Zeitsch. d. Osterreichis. Gesells. f. Meteo., Noy., 1882, xvir, pp. 443-444.
—— Note on Gadinia excentrica Tiberi.

(Amer. Nat., Sept., 1882, p. 737.)

Der Golfstrom nach den neuesten Forschungen.

(Petermanns geogr. Mittheilungen, 1883, 1, pp. 19-21.)
GooDE, G. Brown. The eel question.

(Forest and Stream, xviiI, 1882, March 2, pp.91-93; March 9, pp. 111-113;
March 16, pp. 132-133.)

Materials for a history of the Swordfish.

(Forest and Stream, Xvill, 1882, June 22, p.410; July 20, p. 492; x1x, 1882,
Aug. 17, p. 52; Aug. 24, p. 70; Aug.31, pp. 91,92; Sept. 7, pp. 111,112; Sept.
14, pp. 132,133; Sept. 21, pp. 149,150; Oct.5, p.193; Oct.19, pp. 231, 232.)

Also in Trans. Amer. Fish Cult. Assoc., 1882, pp. 84-150.

The taxonomic relations and geographical distribution of the
members of the swordfish family (Xiphiide).

(Proc. U.S. Nat. Mus., 1881, 1v, pp. 415-433.)

The fisheries of the world.

(Cyclopedia of Political Economy, Chicago, u, pp. 211-231.)

Benthodesmus, a new genus of deep-sea fishes, allied to Lepi-
dopus.
(Proc. U.S. Nat. Mus., 1881, Iv, pp. 379-383.)
—— The Mackerel.
(Proc. Biol. Soc. Wash., 1, 1882, p. 32.)
The fishermen of the United States. [Abstract.]
(Trans. Anthrop. Soc. Wash., I, pp. 62-66.
See GOODE and BEAN; also, GOODE and CoLLIns.

GooDE, G. Brown, and TARLETON H. BEAN. Benthodesmus, a new
genus of deep-sea fishes, allied to Lepidopus.
(Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., 1881, 1v, pp. 379-383.)

A list of the species of fishes recorded as occurring in the Gulf
of Mexico.

(Proc. U.S. Nat. Mus., 1882, v, pp. 234-240.)
170 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM.

GOODE, G. BROWN, and TARLETON H. BEAN. Descriptions of twenty-
five new species of fish from the Southern United States, and three
new genera Letharchus, Ioglossus, and Chriodorus.

(Proc. U.S. Nat. Mus., 1882, v, pp. 412-437.)

GooDE, G. BRown, and Capt. J. W. CoLuins. The winter haddock
fishery of New England.
(Bull. U. 8. F. C., 1882, 1, pp. 226-235.)

——— The winter haddock fishery of New England.

(Forest and Stream, May 18, 1882, xvi, pp. 311-312; also in Trans. Amer.
Fish Cult. Assoc., 1882, pp. 48-65.)

RATHBUN, RICHARD. Dredging stations of the U. S. Fish Commis-
sion steamer, Fish Hawk, Lieut. Z. L. Tanner, U.S. N., command-
ing, for 1880, 1881, and 1882, with temperature and other observa-
tions.

(Bull. U. 8. Fish Comm., Nov. 1882, 1, pp. 119-131.)

List of marine invertebrates, mainly from the New England
coast, distributed by the United States National Museum. Series
MK;

(Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., 1881, Iv, pp. 298-303.)

—w— List of marine invertebrates from the New England coast, dis-
tributed by the U. S. National Museum. Series 11. Educational
series.

(Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., 1281, 1v, pp. 304-307. Feb’y., 1882.)
——— Notes on the shrimp and prawn fisheries of the United States.
(Bulletin U. S. Fish Comm., 11, pp. 189-152. Nov., 1882.)

See also SMITH and RATHBUN.

RAvU, CHARLES. Articles on anthropological subjects contributed to
the annual report of the Smithsonian Institution, from 1863 to
1877, by Charles Rau. Washington. Published by the Smithsonian
Institution, 1882, 8vo, pp. x, 1-169.

The Mount Pisgah (U. 8.) stone carvings.

(Nature, July 13, 1882, p. 243).

Die Jadeitgegenstiinde des National-Museums zu Washing-

ton.
(Archiv fiir Anthropologie, 1882, x1v, pp. 157-163.)

—-— List of anthropological publications, 1859-1882.
(Proc. U.S. Nat. Mus., 1881, Iv, pp. 455-458.)

Review of “ Ancient Scottish lake-dwellings or crannogs, with
asupplementary chapter on lake-dwellings in England,” by Robert
Monro, M. A., M. D., F. 8S. A. Scot. Edinburgh, 1882.

(The Nation, October 26, 1882, p. 363, anonymous. )
REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 171

RipGway, RoBERT. Catalogue of Old World birds in the United
States National Museum.

(Proc. U. 8. Nat. Mus., 1881, Iv, pp. 317-333.)

The object of this catalogue, as expressed 1n the preface, ‘‘is to render ap-
parent the desiderata of the National Museum in the way of Old World birds,
so that museums or individuals desiring to make exchanges (or donations)
may know what species are wanted.” The total number of species enumerated
is 1,339, to which there have been many additions* during the year, the re-
sult chiefly of a judicious distribution of the catalogue. It is proposed to
publish annually a supplement to this list, giving the names of all the species
added to the collection during the year,for the information of those from
whom accessions to the collection may be expected.

Notes on some Costa Rican birds.

(Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., 1881, Iv, pp. 333-337.)

This paper is based upon a small but very interesting collection of birds
presented by Sr. Don José C. Zeledon, of San José, Costa Rica, and mostly
obtained upon the voleanic peak of Irazti. This elevated peak, like many
others of a similar character throughout tropical America, possesses a number
of entirely peculiar species, increased by two in the collection upon which
this paper is based, viz, a very pretty wren (Troglodytes ochraceus), and a re-
markable, as well as totally new form of dendrocolaptine bird (Acanthidops
bairdi), the genus as well as the species being new.

Description of a new flycatcher and a supposed new petrel

from the Sandwich Islands.

(Proc. U. 8. Nat. Mus., 1881, Iv, pp. 337-338.)

The birds described in this paper are new and very distinct species (Chasi-
empis sclateri and Cymochorea cryptoleucura) from the island of Waimea Kaui.
The ornithology of the Sandwich Islands, notwithstanding their accessibility,
being very imperfectly known, every addition to our knowledge of the birds
of these islands possesses peculiar interest.

—— Description of a new owl from Porto Rico.
(Proc. U. 8. Nat. Mus., 1881, Iv, pp. 366-371.)
In addition to the description of a new species (Asio portoricensis), this paper
treats critically of the nearly cosmopolitan Asio accipitrinus, or short-eared
owl, and its allies.

Descriptions of two new thrushes from the United States.

(Proc. U. 8. Nat. Mus., 1881, Iv, pp. 374-379.)

The birds herein described are Hylecichla fuscescens salicicola, or willow
thrush, from the Rocky Mountains, and H. alicie bicknelli, from the Catskill
Mountains, New York. The latter is of particular interest, as being a local or
geographical race of a species which breeds abundantly along the Arctic coast
of North America, and which was supposed to be specially limited to that dis-
trict during the breeding season. Nevertheless, Mr. Eugene P. Bicknell, of
Riverdale, N. Y., found a smaller and darker colored form, unquestionably
referable to the same species, breeding upon the Catskill Mountains, at an
elevation of about 4,000 feet.

On two recent additions to the North American bird-fauna,
by L. Belding. .

(Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., 1881, 1v, pp. 414-511.)

During the winter of 1881-’82, Mr. L. Belding, of Stockton, Cal., made an

“The subsequent additions of identified species number 104, making a total of 1,443
species now in the collection.
L72 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM.

RmGway, RoBERT—Continued.

exploration of the western coast and southern extremity of Lower California,
in the interests of the National Museum, aconsiderable portion of his time
being spent at La Paz, on the eastern side of the peninsula. Among the birds
obtained at this locality was a single example of Swinhoe’s wagtail (Motacilla
ocularis), a species belonging to eastern Asia, so that the individual in ques-
tion must in all probability have crossed the Pacific Ocean, perhaps aided
by some vessel bound toward our shores. The other, a Mexican species, the
chestnut-headed yellow warbler, (Dendraca bryanti), first described in 1874,
Mr. Belding found to be a common inhabitant of the mangrove thickets skirt-
ing the Gulf shore.

Description of several new races of American birds.

(Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., 1882, v, pp. 9-15.)

The new birds described in this article are (1) Methriopterus curvirostris occt-
dentalis, from western Mexico; (2) Mimus gilvus lawrencei, from southern
Mexico; (3) Merula flavirostris graysoni, from the Tres Marias Islands; (4) Sia-
lia sialis guatemale, from Guatemala; (5) Chamea fasciata henshawi, from
the interior of California; and (6) Perisoreus canadensis nigricapillus, from
Labrador.

On the genera Harporhynchus, Cabanis, and Methriopterus
Reichenbach, with a description of a new genus of Mimine.

(Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., 1882, v, pp. 43-46.)

The purport of this paper is the definition of characters distinguishing two
genera which had been previously confounded. Anew allied genus(Mimodes),
also related to Mimus, is instituted for the Harporhynchus graysoni Baird.

Critical remarks on the tree creepers (Certhia) of Europe and
North America.

(Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., 1882, v, pp. 111-116.)

This paper, based upon extensive material in the National Museum, defines
the distinctive characters of several Palearctic and North American races
of Certhia familiaris, among which the following are described for the first
time: (1) C. familiaris britannica, from the British Islands; (2) C. familiaris
montana, from the Rocky Mountains; and (3) C. familiaris occidentalis, from
the Pacific coast of North America.

Description of some new North American birds.

(Proc. U. 8. Nat. Mus., 1882, v, pp. 343-346. )

The species described are Catherpes mexicanus punctulatus, California; Lopho-
phanes inornatus griseus, Middle Province of United States ; Geothlypis beldingi,
San José del Cabo, Lower California; Rallus beldingi, Espiritu Santo Islands,
Lower California, of which the types are all in National Museum collection.

On an apparently new heron from Florida.

(Bull. Nutt. Orn. Club, 1, 1882, vir, pp. 1-6.)

This article embodies areview of the question of dichromatism in Ardea occi
dentalis (first hinted at by the author in the Bulletin of the U. 8. Geol. and
Geog. Survey of the Terr.,1, 1878, Iv, pp. 2-236), and also brings to notice
an allied dichromatic species, or race, from western Florida, named Ardea
wardi, in honor of its discoverer, Mr. C. W. Ward, of Pontiac, Mich., who

generously turnished the facts and specimen upon which the new species
was based.
REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 173

RIDGWAY, ROBERT. Notes on some of the birds observed near Wheat-
land, Knox County, Indiana, in the spring of 1881.

(Bull. Nutt. Orn. Club, 1, 1882, vu, pp., 15-23.)
This paper presents the chief results of a collecting trip to the locality in
question, in the interest of the National Museum.

On the generic name Helminthophaga.

(Bull. Nutt. Orn, Club, 1, 1882, vir, pp. 53-54.)

This paper calls attention to the necessity (if the rules of nomenclature be
strictly adhered to) of suppressing this name as used for a North American
genus of warblers, it having been applied forty-seven years previously to an
entirely dissimilar European group, including the nightingale and redbreast.
In order to render the change as slight as possible, the name Helminthophila
is proposed.

The great black-backed gull (Larus marinus), from a new

locality.

(Bull. Nutt. Orn. Club, 1, 1882, vu, p. 60.)

The known range of this species has been greatly extended by specimens
from Herald Island, in the Arctic Ocean, north of Bering Strait, and Port
Clarence, on the Atlantic side of the same strait, collected by Captain Hooper,
U.S. Cutter “Corwin,” and Dr. T. H. Bean, curator Department of Fishes,
U. S. National Museum. The nearest previously recorded locality was Japan.

Additions to the catalogue of North American birds.
(Bull. Nutt Orn. Club, 1, 1882, vir, p. 61.)

The additions (to the catalogue published by the National Museum in 1881)
are Nos. 440*, Buteo fuliginosus Scl. (little black hawk); 440**, B. brachyurus
Vieill. (short-tailed hawk, white-fronted Hawk); 708, Pufiinus borealis Cory
(northern shearwater); and 717*, @strelata gularis Peale (Peale’s petrel).
The numbers prefixed indicate their position as interpolated in the catalogue
in question.

—— Distribution of the fish crow (Corvus ossifragus).

(Bull. Nutt. Orn. Club, 4, 1882, vir, p. 250.)
This supposed strictly littoral species found among the mountains of Vir-
ginia, at least sixty miles from the nearest tide-water.

Birds new to or rare in the District of Columbia.

(Bull. Nutt. Orn. Club, 4, 1882, v11, p. 253.)

The species given, verified by specimens in the National Museum collection,
are the following: ? Bewick’s wren (Thryomanens bewicki); yellow-throated
warbler (Dendreca dominica); loggerhead shrike (Lanius ludovicianus); and
sharp-tailed finch (Ammodromus caudacutus).

List of additions to the catalogue of North American birds.

(Bull. Nutt. Orn. Club, 4, 1882, v1, pp. 257, 258.)

This list is supplementary to that published in the January number of the
same journal (No.15), and includes subsequent additions, given “for the
benefit of those who, for various reasons, are not able to keep the run of all
the new discoveries.” There are twenty-two species, as follows: 2a, Hylo-
cichla fuscescens salicicola Ridgw. (Willow thrush) 3a. H. alicie bicknelli Ridgw.
(Bicknell’s thrush). 35a, Chamea fasciata henshawi Ridgw. (Pallid ground. tit).
38a, Lophophanes inornatus griseus Ridgw. (Gray titmouse). 55), Certhia famili
arismontana Ridgw. (Rocky Mountain creeper). 59b, Catherpes mexicanus punctu-
174 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM.

Ripeway, RoBERT—Continued.

latus Ridgw. (Punctulated wren). 69*, Motacilla ocularis Swinh. (Swinhoe’s -
wagtail). 93*, Dendraca vieilloti bryanti Ridgw. (Chestnut-headed yellow
warbler). 122*, Geothlypis beldingi Ridgw. (Belding’s yellow-throat). 144a,
Vireo huttoni stephensi Brewst. (Stephens’ vireo), 230b, Peucea ruficeps eremeca
Brown. (Rock sparrow). 297c, Perisoreus canadensis nigricapillus Ridgw. (Lab-
rador jay). 3lla, Myiarchus mexicanus cooperi Baird (Cooper’s flycatcher).
354a, Caprimulgus vociferus arizo.e Brewst.(Stephens’ whippoorwill). 402e,
Scops asio bendireit Brewst. (California mottled owl). 452*, Gyparchus papa
Linn. (King vulture). 475a, Lagopus mutus reinhardti Brehm. (Greenland
ptarmigan). 475), L.mutus atkhensis Turner (Atkhan ptarmigan). 486*, Ardea
wardi Ridgw. (Ward’s heron). 569*, Rallus beldingi Ridgw. (Belding’s rail).
701*, Diomedea melanophrys Temm. (Spectacled albatross).

RILEY, CHARLES V. [ United States] Department of Agriculture. Special
report No. 11. The Silk-worm; being a brief manual of instructions
for the production of silk. Second edition. Prepared by direction
of the Commissioner of Agriculture, by C. V. Riley, M. A., Ph. D.,
entomologist, Washington, 1882, 37 p., ill.

Urges practicability and desirability of the culture of Sericaria mori in the
United States ; gives estimates of the profits of silk-culture ; a brief natural
history of S. mori, with its enemies, diseases, and food-plants; directions for
the culture of the insects and the reeling of silk, and a glossary of terms used
in silk-culture. Corrects errors in the estimates given in the first edition,
makes other minor changes, and addi introduction on the requisites of suc-
cessful silk-culture.

On the oviposition of Prodoxus decipiens.

(Amer. Nat., Jan., 1882, v, pp. 62-63.)

An abstract of a paper ore at the Cincinnati meeting of the A. A.A. s. on
the time and manner of oviposition of Prodoxus decipiens in stem of Yucca
jilamentosa.

Horn’s classification of the Carabidae.

(Amer. Nat., Jan., 1882, xvi, pp. 63-64.)

A notice of G. H. Horn’s ‘On the genera of Carabide, with special refer-
ence to the fauna of boreal Ameiica” (Trans. Amer. Entom. Soc., July-Oct.,
1881, 1x, pp. 91-196, pl. 3-10); shows necessity for broad view in the per-
formance of classificatory work.

New insects injurious to agriculture.

(Amer. Nat., Feb., 1882, xvi, pp. 151-152.)

An abstract of a paper read at the Cincinnati meeting of the A. A.A.S.;
states that the occurrence of previously unnoticed noxious insects is due some-
times to the introduction of species from abroad, sometimes to previously-
existing unnoticed species, and at other times to the acquisition of new habits
by previously-known innoxious species. In the last case the acquisition of
new habits may be accompanied by the acquisition of new descriptional char-
acters, constituting of the insect a new species. New species may thus be-
come developed within brief periods of time.

Locust probabilities for 1882.

(Amer. Nat., Feb., 1882, xv, p. 153.)
Gives the finery of Lawrence Bruner in Utah, Idaho, Montana, and Wash-

REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 175

RILEY, CHARLES V.—Continued.
ington Territory, and reports favorable prospects of immunity from ravages
of Caloptenus spretus in 1882.

——— A new depredator infesting wheat stalks.

(Amer. Nat., Mar., 1882, xv1, pp. 247-248, fig. 1.)

This insect was described as a new wheat pest, under the name of Jsosoma
allynii, by G. H. French, in Prairie Farmer, 31 Dec., 1881; and in his ‘“‘ Two
new species of Isosoma” (Can. Entom., Jan., 1882, x1v, pp. 9-19), is aspecies
of Eupelmus, doubtless parasitic on some of the wheat-stalk feeders and prob-
ably on some species of Chlorops; habits and figures of larva are also given
and descriptions of female imago of Jsosoma tritici n. sp. (previously charac-
terized by author in Rural New Yorker, March 4, 1882), which is injurious to
wheat; gives comparison between I. tritica and I. hordei ; states doubt con-
cerning the habits of I. lineare of Europe, and the relative conspicuousness of
the ‘‘humeral spot” in European, American, and Australian species of Isosoma.

Further notes on the imported clover-leaf weevil, Phytonomus
punetatus.

(Amer. Nat., Mar., 1882, xv1, pp. 245-249.)

Specimens of a variety of Phytonomus punctatus, supposed to have been col-
lected in Canada in 1853, and in Pennsylvania, described by LeConte as P.
opimus, in 1876 ; citations of other instances in which injurious insects have
been overlooked for a long time, or scantily collected; probability that plant-
feeding coleoptera imported from Europe will not spread far from the Atlantic
coast ; some such species, injurious in Europe, are thus far innoxious in this
country ; hibernation of and means against P. punctatus.

——— Possible food-plants for the cotton-worm.

(Amer. Nat., April, 1882, xv1, pp. 327-329.)

Aletia argillacea is, so far as known, strictly confined to Gossypium as a food-
plant ; locality list of the Malvaces of northeastern United States, upon some
of which plants the larva of the Aletia will probably be found ; physical char-
acters and geographical distribution of Urena lobato, on which larve of
Anomis erosa occur ; egg and larva of the Anomis and the Aletia.

——— Lichtenstein’s theory as to dimorphic, asexual females.

(Amer. Nat., May, 1882, xvi, p. 409.)

Criticises J. Lichtenstein’s theory that ‘‘ winged female” Aphides and
“asexual female” Cynipids are larve and their eggs pup#; corrects errors
in the comparison of these forms with the hypermetamorphotic stages of
Meloide.

——w— Injurious insects in California.

(Amer. Nat., May, 1882, xv1, p. 410.)

Notice of Matthew Cooke’s ‘‘A treatise on the insects injurious to fruitand
fruit-trees of the State of California, 1881,” with indication of a few errors in
specific determination,

The cotton-worm. How its ravages may be prevented and the insect
destroyed. What an eminent entomologist has to say on the sub-
ject.

——— Some facts of interest to planters in the flooded district.

(N.O. Times-Democrat, May 7, 1882.)
States probability of unusual injury to the cotton crop in the Mississippi
176 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM.

RILEY, CHARLES V.—Continued.

River flats by Aletia argillacea in 1882, owing to the belatement of the crop by
floods; want of suitable machines for destroying these insects; describes the
machines for this purpose invented during the investigations of the U.S. En-
tomological Commission ; mentions poisons available for use; states advan-
tages of early application of poisons, and describes methods for the prepara-
tion and application of these poisons.

—— Habits of Cybocephalus.
(Amer. Nat., June, 1882, x v1, p. 514. )
Cybocephalus nigritulus feeds on the scale-insect Chionaspis pinifolie, on
Pinus elliottii in South Carolina, and C. californicus on a Coccid on apple trees
in California.

The triungulin of Meloide.

(Amer. Nat., June, 1832, xvI, p. 515.)

J. Lichtenstein states that the triungulin of Mele proscarabeus was de-
scribed in J. L. Frisch’s ‘‘ Beschreibung von allerley Insecten in Teutschland,”
1727, V1, p. 15; all knowledge of it, however, was afterward lost.

———- Hibernation of the army worm.

(Amer. Nat., June, 1882, x v1, p. 516.)

Gives confirmation of author’s views, as revised in 1880, in regard to the
hibernation of Leucania unipuncta ; mentions preferred localities for oviposi-
tion ; states prospects of extensive injury by these insects in the more north-
ern States in 1882.

The utilization of ants in horticulture.

(Nature, 8 June, 1882.)

Abstract of C. J. Macgowan’s “ Utilization of ants as insect destroyers” in
China (North China Herald, 4 April, 1882); capture and sale of two species
of ants which build nests in trees, and colonization of these ants in orange
orchards to destroy the insects injurious to those trees.

——— Repelling insects by maledorants.

(Amer. Nat., July, 1882, x v1, p. 596. )

This is a critical review of J. A. Lintner’s “A new principle in protection
from insect attack” (Proc. Western N. Y. Hort. Soc. for 1882, v. —— p. —);
states that odorous substances repel insects more by their toxic properties
than by their odor; mentions failure of attempts by the use of strongly
smelling substances to prevent oviposition, and shows that the senses of sight,
touch, and taste are generally more important in the insect economy than the
sense of smell.

Habits of Coscinoptera dominicana.

(Amer. Nat., July, 1882, xv1, p. 598. )

Announces discovery by F. H. King that Coscinoptera dominicana is inguili-
nous in ants’ nests in its earlier states; occurrence of similar habitsin related
species.

Change of habit; two new enemies of the egg-plant.

(Amer. Nat., Aug., 1882, xvi, p. 678-679.)

Describes sudden acquisition by Doryphora juncta and by Cassida texana of
the habit of feeding on Solanum melongena, these species having been found
previously on S. carolinense and S. elewagnifolium, respectively ; occurrence
of C. terana on 8S. carolinense; geographical distribution of these two insects.
REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 177

RILEY, CHARLES V. Notes on Microgasters.

(Amer. Nat., Aug., 1882, xv1, p. 679-680.)

A critical review of A. S. Packard, jr.’s, ‘‘ Descriptions of some new ichneu-
mon parasites of North American butterflies” (Proc. Bost. Soc. Nat. Hist., 1880,
XXI, p. 18-38); synonymical notes on Microgaster carinata [= WM. gelechia
var.], M. pieridis [specific name preoccupied] [= Apanteles congregatus var.
pieridivora n. var.], M. atalante [=Apanteles congregatus var.], M. [ Apan-
teles| carduicola and M. [A.] lunatus.

The “ overflow bugs” in California.

(Amer. Nat., Aug., 1882, xvi, p. 681-682.)

Extract from a letter of Mrs. A. E. Bush, describing the occurrence of
Platynus maculicollis in California in such abundance at certain seasons as to
become a nuisance to man.

Probable sound organs in Sphingid pupe.

(Amer. Nat., Sept., 1882, x v1, p. 745-746. )

Describes occurrence of a peculiar structure on the abdominal joints of the
pups of certain Sphingide ; genera in which this structure is observed ; prob-
able connection of this structure with the function of producing sound, as
observed in Sphinx atropos.

Is Cyrtoneura a parasite or a scavenger ?

(Amer. Nat., Sept., 1882, x v1, p. 746-747.)

Describes Cyrtoneura stabulens bred from pup of Aletia argillacea; states
usual food of this species; expresses doubt whether the species is a parasite
or is only a scavenger in decayed pups; thinks Phora aletie@ merely a scav-
enger; describes great liability of pupx of Aletia to decay.

Denoderus pusillus as a museum pest.

(Amer. Nat., Sept., 1882, XVI, p. 747.)

Describes imagos of Dinoderus pusillus feeding on cork and paper lining in
an insect box} states that they occur usually in drugs and other stored and
dry vegetable products.

Habits of Polycaon confertus Lec.

(Amer. Nat., Sept., 1882, x v1, p. 747.)
The imagos of Polycaon confertus bore in twigs of apple and pear trees and
grape vines; the larvx probably live in the dead and dry wood of forest trees.

Myrmecophilous Coleoptera.

(Amer. Nat., Sept,, 1882, xvi, p. 747, 748.)

Announces discovery, by Lawrence Bouner, that larva and imagos of Eu-
phoria hirtipes live in hills of Formica rufa in Nebraska; and by Theodor Per-
gande, of pupxw of Hymenorus rufipes in nest of Formica fusca, and of H.
obscurus in nest of another species of ant; mentions known myrmecophilous
habits of Cetonia, Cremastochilus, Euparia castanea (in nests of Solenopsis xyloni),
Tenebrionide and Anthicus; work of E. A. Schwarz upon myrmecophilous
coleoptera. :

Cicada septendecim.

(Gardener’s Monthly, Sept., 1882, v, p. ——.)

A critical review of “the short paragraph on cicada” (op. cit., Aug., 1882,
—, p. 247), with reprint of the notes on “ Cicada septendecim,” in Bull.
No. 6, U.S. Entom. Comm., 1881, p. 58-59; gives orthography of the names of
H. Mis. 26 12

178 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM.

RILEY, CHARLES V.—Continued.

C. septendecim and C. tredecim; the natural relations or specific distinctness
of the two forms so named, and shows the indistinguishability of the species of
certain genera by the examination of cabinet specimens; states that dimor-
phie forms of identical species are more numerous than usually recognized,
and that Massospora cicadina is parasitic on Cicada,

Buffalo tree-hopper injurious to potatoes.

(Amer. Nat., Oct., 1882, XVI, p. 823.)
Describes habits, food-plants, and ravages of Ceresa bubalus.

A new museum pest.

(Amer. Nat., Oct., 1882, XVI, p. 826.)
Announces the discovery, by Mrs. A. E. Bush, of Perimegatoma variegatum
as a pest in collections of insects.

Remarkable felting caused by a beetle.
(Rural New Yorker, 14 Oct., 1882).

Modified reprint, with same title.

(Amer. Nat., Dec., 1882, xvi, p. 1018-1019).

This is a description of the felting of the interior of a pillow-ticking, with
fragments of feathers, formed by the ravages of Attagenus megatoma within a
feather pillow.

The Buckeye leaf-stem borer.

(Amer. Nat., Nov., 1882, xvi, p. 913-914.)

States that the insect mentioned as Sericoris instructana in [author's] ‘‘The
permanent subsection of entomology at the recent meeting of the A. A. A.S.,”
(Amer. Nat., Dec., 1881, xv1), p. 1009-1010, is totally different from that spe-
cies, and is here named Sericoris claypoleana n. sp.; gives habits and food-
plants of this species and of Proteoteras esculana, and points out distinctions
between these two species.

Species of Otiorhynchide injurious to cultivated plants.

(Amer. Nat., Nov., 1882, xvi, p. 915-916.

Of North American Otiorhynchidw the development and earlier stages of
only one species (Aramigus fulleri) are known; imagos of two species have
become noticeably injurious; the food-plants of eight other species were pre-
- viously known; announces discovery, by G. P. Pefier, of the injuries of Anam-
etis grisea upon roots of apple and pear trees, and gives list of food-plants of
the above-mentioned species.

A new rice-stalk borer; genus grinding.

(Amer. Nat., Dec., 1882, xvi, p. 1014-1015.)

An extract from the author’s ‘‘The rice-stalk borer” (Rept. [U.S.] Com-
miss. Agric. for 1881 and 1882, 1882 [Jan., 1883] ), p. 134-135, with additional
remarks; Chilo oryzaeellus.

Is the same as Diphryx prolatella; mentions that the genus Diphryx was
stated by Lord Walsingham [T. de Grey] to have been founded by A. R.
Grote on a mutilated specimen (as suspected by the author), with mistake of
maxillary for labial palpi.

The army-worm in 1882.

(Amer. Nat., Dec., 1882, xv1, p. 1017.)

States occurrence of Leucania unipuncta in great abundance and with dis-
astrous effects, especially in southern United States, in 1822.
REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 179

RILEY, CHARLES V. The wheat-stalk worm on the Pacific coast.
(Amer. Nat., Dec., 1882, x v1, p. 1017-1018. )

Announces reception, from J. A. Starner, of Jsosoma tritici, injuring wheat-
stalks in Washington Territory; prior notices of this insect.

The bean weevil.

(Rural New Yorker, 9 Dec., 1882.)
Answers inquiry of R. J. B.; gives habits of and means to be pursued
against Bruchus fabe.

Emulsions of petroleum and their value as insecticides.

(Rural New Yorker, 9 Dec., 1882.)

Abstract of a paper read at meeting of American Association for the Ad-
vancement of Science, at Montreal, , 1882; gives results of experiments
made by several persons (named) upon methods of using petroleum as an in-
secticide without injury to plants; states that soap and milk emulsions are
the most available, and gives methods of preparing them.

[United States] Department of Agriculture—Entomologist, 1882
(C. Valentine Riley). Report of the Entomologist. (Report [U.S.]
Commiss. Agric. for 1881 and 1882, 1882 [Jan. 1, 1883], pp. 61-214,
pl. 1-20, with 3 p. expl. of plates.)

Separate author’s edition, entitled ‘Report of the Entomologist, Charles
V. Riley, M. A., Ph. D., for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1882. From the

lL report of the Department of Agriculture for the year 1881. Issued
December 1, 1882.” Wash., Government, t.-p. cover + t.-p., 8-+ 167 p. (with
original pagination also), 20 pl.

Consists of an “Introduction,” sketching the plan of the report, the past
and present organization and work, the projects and future needs of the en-
tomological division of the U. 8. Department of Agriculture, and the relation
of this division to the U. S. Entomological Commission and the National Mu-
seum; of ‘‘Extracts from correspondence,” containing brief notes upon nu-
merous insects not otherwise treated in the report; and of chapters bearing
the following titles, cited, unless otherwise indicated, under the name of C.
V. Riley as author, to which chapters reference should be made for further
analysis: —Silk culture.—Pyrethrum: its use as an insecticide.—Chinch-bug
notes.—The army-worm Leucania unipuncta Haw.—HvuBBarD, H. G. Scale-
insects of the orange. Remedies and their application.—Insects affecting the
rice plant.—Insects affecting corn or maize.—The cotton-worm, Aletia xylina
Say.—Miscellaneous insects.—Comstock, J. H. Report on miscellaneous
insects.

—— Silk-culture. (Report of the Entomologist, 1881-1882, pp.
67-76 [7-16].)

A report of work done by the entomological division of the U. S. Depart-
ment of Agriculture in the promotion of silk-culture in 1881-1882; with ex-
tracts from letters and reports of correspondents; list of the now active silk-
culture associations and business enterprises, and statement of work done by
them; reprint of author’s preface to 2d ed. of special report No. 11 of U.S.
Department of Agriculture, giving a summary of the present condition and
prospects of the silk-producing industry in United States; caution against
extensive prosecution of this industry under present tariff laws.
180 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM.

RILEY, CHARLES V. PYRETHRUM: Its use as an insecticide (pp. 76-87
[16-27], pl. 3, 4).

Contains a reprint of the ‘‘Cirenlar in reference to pyrethrum,” issued by
the U.S. Commissioner of Agriculture [G. B. Loring] in 1882, giving a history
of the discovery and application of pyrethrum as an insecticide and directions
for the preparation and application of this substance; reports from corre-
spondents and from the author of their experience in the growth of the plants.

Chinch-bug notes (pp. 87-89 [27-29)]).

Gives a verification of Cyrus Thomas’s predictions in relation to the ravages
of Blissus leucopterus in 1831 and 1882; extracts from correspondence reporting
the abundance of this insect early in 1882; letter from J. G. Barlow on the
weather and the ravages of the Blissus in Washington County, Missonri, in
1882; irrigation, cremation, and other means against these insects.

The Army-worm, Leucania unipuncta Haw. (pp. 89-1056 [29-46],
pl. 2; pl. 6, figs. 1-3). .

Gives a history of investigations into the natural history of Leucania uni-
puncta ; states place and manner of oviposition of this moth; its prolificacy ;
the duration of the egg and larva stages; describes habits and characteristics
of this larva and of larve of Leucania generally; gives means of predicting and
preventing their ravages, and extracts from letters received in 1882; in-
cludes also the following subchapters: HowarpD, L. O. Report of observa-
tions npon the army-worm, 1881. Lockwoop, 8. Account of the invasion
of 1880 in New Jersey.

Insects affecting the rice plant (pp. 127-138 [67-78], pl. 6, figs.
4-5; pl. 7, figs. 1, 4-5).

This contains a statement of the amount of rice produced in the United
States in 1879, and of the investigation made by L. O. Howard, in 1881, into
the injuries done to the rice crop by insects; with subchapters entitled: The
rice grub (Chalepus trachypygus Burm.).—The water-weevil (Lissorhoptrus sim
plex Say).—The rice-stalk borer (Chilo oryzaeellus n. sp.).—White blast.—
Other insects injurious to growing rice.

The rice grub, Chalepus trachypygus Burm. (pp. 128-129 [68-69],
pl. 6, fig. 5).

Gives report of L. O. Howard on the habits and ravages of and means against
Chalepus trachypygus, with references to earlier observations ; describes struct-
ural characters and geographical distribution of the genera Cyclocephale and
Chalepus, and gives description and figure of larva and imago of Ch. trachy-
pygus.

The water weevil, Lissorhoptrus simplex Say (pp. 130-133 [70-
73], pl. 6, fig. 4).

Gives seasons, habits, ravages, classification, and synonymy of Lissorhoptrus
simplex, with description and figures of larva and imago; includes extract from
J. Screvens in author’s ‘‘ The ‘ water-weevil’ of the rice plant” (Amer. Nat.,
June, 1881, v. 15), p. 483, and extract from a report by L. O. Howard; Spala-
copsis suffusa and Hippopsis lemniscata boring in stems of Chenopodium anthel-
mintioum.

The rice-stalk borer, Chilo oryzaeellus n. sp. (pp. 1838-1385 [73-
75], p. 3 [167], pl. 7, fig. 1).
REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 181

RILEY, CHARLES V.—Continued.

Extract in author’s “A new rice-stalk borer; genus grinding.”
(Amer. Nat., Dec., 1882, v. 16, pp. 1014-1015.)

Gives description and figures of larva, pupa, and imago of Chilo oryzaeeltus
n. sp.; Diphryx prolatella; refers to report of L. O. Howard upon its habits,
enemies, and ravages, and means against it; describes structural character,
of the genus Diphryzx, stated by Lord Walsingham [T. de Grey] (as suspected
by author) to have been founded on a mutilated specimen, with mistake of
maxillary for labial palpi.

—— White blast (pp. 136-137 [76-77]).

Publishes letter from J. Screven and report from L. O. Howard on the
phenomena and supposed causes of ‘‘white blast” in rice plants; mentions
insects found on rice plants; states probable production of white blast by
insects.

Other insects injurious to growing rice (p. 138 [78], pl. 7, fig.
4-5).
Mentions habits and food-plants of Laphygma frugiperda; refers to occur-
rence of certain other insects doing minor damage on rice-plants.

Insects affectin g corn or maize (pp. 138-152 [78-92], pl.1; pl. 7,
figs. 2-3; pl. 8, fig. 2; pl. 12, fig. 1).

This consists of the following subchapters: The corn bill-bug. Spheao-
phorus robustus Horn.—The smaller corn stalk-borer. Pempelia lignosella Zeller—
The boll-worm alias corn-worm. Heliothis armigera Hiibu.—JouNson, L.
Report upon Heliothis armigera.

The corn bill-bug. Sphenophorus robustus Horn (pp. 138-142
[78-82], pl. 7, fig. 25 pl. 8, fig. 2).

Gives history of earlier observations on the species of Sphenophorus injur-
ious to maize in the United States; report of observations on S. robustus, by
L. O. Howard; habits and ravages and description and figure of larva, pupa,
and imago of S. robustus; description of larva of Rhodobanus tredecimpune-
tatus and Rhynchophorus zimmermanni, and figures of imago of the former; char-
acters distinguishing Sphenophorus and S. robustus and the four other species
allied to it from other genera and species.

The smaller corn-stalk borer. Pempelia lignosella Zeller (pp.
142-145 [82-85], pl. 7, fig. 3).

Mentions ravages, habits, seasons, natural history, geographical distri-
bution, and synonymy of and means against Pempelia lignosella; gives descrip-
tion and figures of larva, pupa, and imago, of structural details of mouth-
parts and antennz of male imago, of markings of larva, and of injury done to
cornstalks.

——— The boll-worm alias corn-worm. Heliothis armigera Hiibu. (pp.
145-149 [85-89], pl.1; pl. 12, fig. 1).

This is an advance reprint, from the fourth report of U. S. entomological
commission, of the section on the food-plants of Heliothis armigera other than
cotton, with a list of these food-plants, and of authorities upon which the
respective statements are made; gives history of first proofs of identity of
this species on maize, with the same on cotton; and habits of the larvs# in
their several broods; with figures of all stages of the insect.
i REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM.

RILEY, CHARLES V. The cotton-worm. Aletia rylina Say, (pp. 152-
167 [92-107], pl. 9).

An extract from the author’s address on the cotton-worm (U. 8.—Dept.
Agric.—Cotton convention held in Atlanta, Ga., Nov. 2, 1881; the address of Hon.
Geo. B. Loring, 1881), pp. 21-29; a reprint of the author’s ‘‘ The cotton-worm.
How its ravages may be prevented” (New Orleans Times-Democrat, May 7,
1882); an illustrated description, by W. S. Barnard, of a machine for spraying
cotton plants from beneath; a summary [by J. R. Dodge] of damage done
by Aletia xylina in 1881; a reprint of the author’s “ Possible food-plants fox
the cotton-worm ” (Amer. Nat. April 1882, v. 16, pp. 327-329) ; and an extract
from paper read by author at annual session of National Academy of Sciences,
May, 1882, on the hibernation of Aletia xylina,

Miscellaneous insects (pp. 167-194 [107-134], pl. 8, fig. 1; pl.
10, figs. 1-2; pl. 11, fig.1; pl. 12, figs. 2-3; pl. 13).

This contains the following sub-chapters: The urena anomis. Anomis erosa
Hiib.—The clover leaf-beetle, Phytonomus punciatus Fabr.—The vagabond
crambus, Crambus vulgivagellus Clem.—The wheat isosoma, Isosoma tritici
Riley.—The sorghum web-worm, Nola sorghiella, new species.—The catalpa
Sphinx, Sphinx catalpe Boid.—The osage orange sphinx, Sphinx hageni Grote.

The urena anomis. Anomis erosa Hiib. (pp. 167-170 [107-110,]
pls; fig. 4).

Gives a detailed comparison of eggs of Anomis erosa and Aletia xylina; fig-
ures and description of all states of the former species; seasons, habits, and
food-plants of this insect.

——— The clover leaf-beetle. Phytonomus punctatus Fabr. (pp. 171-
179 [111-119], pl. 10, fig. 1).

Mentions the food-plants and habits of the species of Phytonomus in Europe
and United States; gives the civil and natural history, number of annual
broods, ravages, enemies, and geographical distribution of and means against
Ph. punctatus ; description and figures of eggs, larva (four stages), and pupa
of this species; figures of imago and of injured plant; and report, by E. A.
Schwarz, of observations on this insect in New York; states that Hylesinus
trifolii seems to feed only on Trifolium pratense; and that Coleoptera imported
from Europe are usually confined to the neighborhood of the Atlantic coast.

The vagabond crambus. Orambus vulgivagellus Clem. (pp. 179-
183 [119-123], p. 3 [167], pl. 10, fig. 2).

This gives the civil and natural history of Crambus vulgivagellus ; the habits,
ravages, and parasites of and means against this insect; a description and
figures of egg, larva, and imago; figures of cocoons and injured grass; a de-
scription of the pupa; and a list of articles written concerning this insect;
mentions similarity of the habits of Crambus warringtonellus of England to
those of C. vulgivagellus.

The wheat isosoma. Isosoma tritici Riley (pp. 183-187, [123-
127], pl. 12, fig. 3).

Gives history of observations on Isosoma triciti ; and comparison of this spe-
cies with J. hordei and of the European J, linearl; its habits, ravages, parasites,
and number of annual broods, and means against it; gives list of articles
written concerning it; states that the insect described by G. H. French as
Isosoma allynii is a Lupelmus, and perhaps parasitic on J. tritici; describes
Stectonotus isosomatis n. sp., parasitic on J. tritici.
REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 183

RILEY, CHARLES V. The sorghum web-worm. Nola sorghieila new
species (pp. 187-189 [127-129], pl. 11, fig. 1).
Gives habits, ravages, and classificatory relations of Nola sorghiella, with

figures and description of larva, pupa, and imago, and figure of head of sorghum
injured by the larva.

The catalpa sphinx. Sphinx catalpe Boisd. (pp. 189-193 [129-
133], pl. 13).

States relative excellence of Catalpa speciosa and C. bignonioides, as timber-
trees, according to J. A. Warder; gives geographical distribution, habits,
ravages, and parasites of and means to be taken against Sphinx catalpe; with
description and figures of all stages of thisinsect ; and description of supposed
sound-producing organs in pupa of this and other species.

The osage orange sphinx. Sphinx hageni Grote (pp. 193-194
[133-134], pl. 12, fig. 2).

Gives list of insects injurious to Maclura aurantiaca ; with geographical dis-
tribution and classificatory relations of Sphinx hageni; and references to other
accounts of this insect; with description and figures of larva and imago.

SHUFELDT, R. W. Notes upon the osteology of Cinclus mexicanus.

(Bull. Nutt. Orn. Club, No. 4, October, 1882, vil, pp. 213-221.)

Osteology of the Cathartide.

(Twelth annual report U. S. Geol. & Geog. Survey, 1882, pp. 727-788, pls.
15-24.

Remarks upon the osteology of Opheosaurus ventralis.

(Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., 1881, rv, pp. 392-400.)

TRUE, FREDERICK W. Fish parasites.
(Forest and Stream, No. 20, xv1u1, p. 390.)
Refers to Ligula simplissima as probably the tape-worm occurring in Adiron-
dack fish.
On the North American land tortoises of the genus Xerobates.
(Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., 1881, Iv, pp. 434-449.)

On the rare rodent Cricetodipus parvus, (Baird) Coues.
(Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., 1881, tv, pp. 474-475.)

——— A Darwinian bibliography.
(Proc. Biol. Soc. Wash., 1882, 1, pp. 92-101.)

On four mules in milk. By Alfred Duges.

Translated from the French.
(Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., 1882, v, pp. 223-225.)

WARD, LESTER F. Sketch of Professor John W. Powell.

(Popular Science Monthly, January, 1882, xx, pp. 390-397.)

An account of the early life and exploits of Major Powell, and also of his
later career as an explorer and geologist, as well as of his official labors as
Director of Geological Surveys and of the Bureau of Ethnology. A portrait
forms the frontispiece of the number.
184 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM.

WARD, LESTER F. On the cause of the absence of trees on the great
plains. A paper read before the Biological Society of Washngton,
December 9, 1881.

(Kansas City Review of Science and Industry, March, 1882, pp. 697-702.)

A discussion of the question from the writer’s observations, a statement of
the leading facts, a review of current theories, and a statement of the con-
clusions which seem best warranted by all the data attainable.

Guide to the flora of Washington and vicinity, by Lester F.
Ward, A.M. Washington, Government Printing Office, 1881. 8vo.
pp. 264, with map of Washington and vicinity.

This forms Bulletin of the United States National Museum No. 28, and
Smithsonian Publication No. 444, and contains a general discussion of the
botanical peculiarities of the country around Washington, an annotated cata-
logue of the plants, a summary by orders and groups, a check-list, and an
appendix of suggestions to beginners; also a map of the region.

——— Directions for collecting and preserving plants, by Lester F.
Ward.

From Bulletin of the United States National Museum, No, 22. Washing-
ton: Published by the Smithsonian Institution, 1882. pp. 209-237.

Check-list. Flora of Washington, D. C., and vicinity, by
Lester F. Ward.

From Bulletin of the United States National Museum, No. 22. Washington:
Published by the Smithsonian Institution, 1882. pp. 148-207.

Scientific basis of positive political economy.

(International Review, April and May, 1882, x11, pp. 352-365; 439-453.)

These papers are chiefly devoted to the consideration of a new method of
classifying natural phenomena, with a view to proving that a large part of
such phenomena, including many forms of social activity, is within the
sphere of human control through the exercise of intelligence and foresight.
Slightly modified they will form the latter portion of chapter viii (vol. 0, pp.
76-106) of a work by the writer entitled ‘‘Dynamic Sociology, or Applied
Social Science,” in press.

Kant’s antinomies, in the light of modern science.

(Journal of Speculative Philosophy, October, 1881, xv, pp. 381-395.)

A paper read before the Centennial Anniversary Convention, of Kant’s
“Critique of Pure Reason,” at Saratoga Springs, New York, July 6, 1881.

An argument to prove that the ‘‘ theses” and ‘‘antitheses” of Kant’s anti-
nomies are legitimate scientific questions, and that modern science, in at least
three of the four antinomies, points to the truth of the antithesis.

Darwin as a botanist.

(Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington, 1882, 1, pp. 81-86.)

Read before the Darwin memorial meeting of the Biological Society of
Washington, May 12, 1882.

A review of Darwin's botanical works, an explanation of his methods, and
a summary of the philosophic results of his labors in this field.
REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 185

WARD, LESTER F. List of water-plants for carp-ponds.

(Bulletin of the United States Fish Commission, 1882, pp. 22-25.)

A list of names of aquatic plants furnished by the superintendent of the
carp-ponds is here revised, modern names substituted for obsolete ones, the
locality and range of the species briefly indicated, and the plants arranged
according to the prevailing system of botanical classification.

Catalogue of a collection of Japanese woods presented to the
United States National Museum by the University of Tokio, Japan.

(Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., 1882, 11, pp. 308-311.)

The names appearing on the specimens of this collection are here arranged
in their proper systematic order and their synonymy is given. <A few par-
tially named species were determined from the figures accompanying the
specimens.

Politico-social functions. Abstract of a paper read before the
Anthropological Society of Washington, D. C., March 15, 1881,
(Trans. Anthro. Soc., Wash., 1882, 1, pp. 39-42.)
This paper is chiefly devoted to pointing out the importance of a certain
amount of judicious regulation on the part of society as a collective whole,

of the more or Jess injurious and ruinous operations which must necessarily
go on within it in the absence of such regulation.

The postage question.

(Botanical Gazette, August and September, 1682, v11, pp. 97-99.)

Gives a correspondence between the Post-Oflice Department and the writer
on the Department rulings relative to the form of label which would come
within the law as third-class matter.

‘“¢ Documaria barbara.”

(Botanical Gazette, 1882, vil, pp. 99-100.)
An account of its collection in the Dismal Swamp of Virginia.

Proterogyny in Sparganium eurycarpus.

(Botanical Gazette, 1882, vu, p. 100.)

A note recording the observation of this phenomenon in the District of
Columbia.

The anthropocentric theory.

( Transactions Anthropological Society of Washington, 1, 1882, pp. 93-103.)

A collection of facts tending to prove and to disprove the existence of an
intelligent control of events in the interest of man. The paper forms part of
chapter viii (vol. 11, pp. 45-74) of ‘‘ Dynamic Sociology.” In press.

What Mr. Ward was ready to say. (Herbert Spencer in
America.. New York: D. Appleton & Co., 1883. pp. 76-79.)

Portion of a letter complimentary to Mr. Spencer, written at the request of
the committee of arrangements, to be read on the occasion of the banquet
given him in New York, October 9, 1882. Before finishing the letter the
writer concluded to attend the banquet in person. The matter of it was sub-
sequently furnished the committee for publication.

— — The organic compounds in their relations to life.

(American Naturalist, December, 1882, xv1, pp. 968-979. )
Read before the Philosophical Society of Washington, January 28, 1882, and
186 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM.

WARD, LESTER F.—Continued.
before the Biological Section of the American Association for the Advance-
ment of Science at Montreal, August 29, 1882.

A statement of the physico-chemical theory of life. The discussion ina
much enlarged form is embodied in chapter iv (vol. 1, pp. 300-356) of the
writer’s work ‘* Dynamic Sociology.” In press.

WHITE, CHARLES A. New molluscan forms from the Laramie and Green
River groups, with discussion of some associated forms heretofore
known.

(Proceedings U.S. National Museum, v, 1882, pp. 94-99, plates 111 and Iv.)

The molluscan fauna of the Truckee group, including a new

form.

(Proceedings ot the U. 8. National Museum, v, 1882, pp. 99-101, plate v.)
On certain condivuons attending the geological descent of some

North American types of fiesh-water gill-bearing mollusks.

(American Journal of Science, xX: (3), pp. 382-386. )

Fossils of the Indiana rocks, No. 2.

(Eleventh Annual Report of the Geological Servey of Indiana, 1881, pp. 347-
401, plates 37-55.)

Artesian wells upon the great plains.

(North American Review, Cxxxv, pp. 187-195.)

Progress of invertebrate paleontology in the United States for
the year 1881.
(Amercan Naturalist, xvi, pp. 887-891. )
YARROw, H.C. The rapid preparation of large myological specimens,
by M. Felix Plateau. (Translated from the French.)
(Proc. U. 8. Nat. Mus., 1881, Iv, pp. 388-391.)

II.—PAPERS BY INVESTIGATORS NOT OFFICERS OF THE MUSEUM.

BELFAST (Maine) REPUBLICAN J OURNAL. The successful propaga-
tion of codfish.
(Quoted in Forest and Stream, No. 10, October 5, 1882, xrx, pp. 192-193.)

BICKNELL, EUGENE P. A sketch of the home of Hylocichla alicie bick-
nelli, Ridgway, with some critical remarks on the allies of the new
race.

(Bull. Nutt. Orn. Club, July, 1882, vir, pp. 152-159.) j
The critical remarks in this paper have more or less relation to Nationa
Museum material.

BREWSTER, WILLIAM. On Kennicott’s owl and some of its allies, with
a description of a proposed new race.

(Bull. Nutt. Orn. Club, No. 1, January, 1882, v11, pp. 27-33.)

An elaborate and important review of the geographical races of Scops asio,
based very largely on National Museum material, sent to Mr. Brewster for
the purpose,
REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 187

BREWSTER, WILLIAM. On a collection of birds lately made by Mr. F.
Stephens in Arizona.

(Bull. Nutt. Orn. Club, Nos. 3 and 4, July and October, 1882, vu, pp. 135-
147, and pp. 193-212.

Occasional reference is made in this paper to examination of National
Museum specimens, made conjointly by the author and the curator of the
department of birds.

Notes on some birds collected by Capt. Charles Bendire, at
Fort Walla Walla, Washington Territory.

(Bull. Nutt. Orn. Club, October, 1882, vu, pp. 225-233.)

This paper is based (in considerable part) upon specimens presented by Cap-
tain Bendire to the National Museum, and examination of other material in
the national collection.

Brown, NATHAN CLIFFORD. Description of a new race of Peucwa rufi-
ceps from Texas.

(Bull. Nutt. Orn. Club, No. 1, Jan., 1882, vi, p. 26.)
The new race in question was described only after careful comparison with
specimens in the National Museum collettion.

Reconnaissance in Southwestern Texas.

(Bull. Nutt. Orn. Club, No. 1, Jan., 1882, vu, pp. 33-42.)

Although this paper relates chiefly to collections made by the author, it
contains frequent mention of comparison with National Museum specimens,
made at the author’s request, by the curator of the department of birds.

CoLuins, J. W. An inquiry as to the capture of young codfish in
Chesapeake Bay.
(Bull. U.S. F.C., 1882, 1, pp. 401-402.)

Appearance of dog-fish (Squalus acanthias) on the New England
coast in winter.

(Ball, U.S, FCs, 1; 7:18:

Captain Collins has since learned that the great schools of supposed dog-
fish referred to in the above article were really porpoises.

See also GOODE, G. BROWN, and CoLiins, J. W.

ForBEs, 8. A. The gasper-gou.
(Forest and Stream, September 28, 1882, x1x, p. 165.)

GILBERT, CHARLES H. List of fishes observed at Punta Arenas, on
the Pacific coast of Central America.
(Bull. U.S. F.C., October 13, 1882, 11, p. 112.)
See also JORDAN and GILBERT.
GILL, THEODORE N. Chiasmodus niger and Notacanthus rissoanus.
(Nature.—)

A critical review of Giinther’s Study of Fishes.
(Proc. Biol, Soc., 1882, Wash., I, p. 29. Title only.)

— On the affinities of the “ great swallower,” Chiasmodus niger.
(Proce. Biol. Soc. Wash., 1882, I, p. 35.
188 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM.

GURNEY, J. H. Notes on a “ Catalogue of the Accipitres in the British
Museum,” by R. Bowdler Sharpe (1874).

(The Ibis [London], 1v, vii, April, 1882, pp. 290-321; October, 1882,
pp. 579-598.)

In this series of valuable papers on the Falconida, occasional mention is
raade of specimens belonging to the National Museum collection, and loaned
to the author for examination.

Hay,O.P. Ona collection of fishes from the Lower Mississippi Valley.

(Bull. U.S. F. C., 1882, pp. 57-75.)

It is worthy of remark that an example in lot No. 2 of Professor Hay’s invoice
of fishes, upon which the foregoing paper was based, and identified by him as
Lepidosteus osseus, is really Litholepis spatula; another one having the same
invoice number and sent here as Lepidosteus osseus is young L. platystomus; a
fish numbered 36 and said to be L. osseus is really L. platystomus. Professor
Hay, therefore, should have recorded Lepidosteus osseus from Jackson, Miss.,
on the basis of his own collection.

HORNADAY, WILLIAM T. On the uses of clay as a filling material.

(Second Ann. Rept. Soc. Amer. Taxidermists. March 25, 1881, to March
24, 1882, pp. 31-34.)

INGERSOLL, ERNEST. On the mortality of marine animals in the Gulf
of Mexico.

(Proce. Biol. Soc. Wash., 1882, 1, p. 30. Title only.)

JAPANESE LEGATION. Catalogue of a collection of Japanese cotton
fiber, presented to the United States National Museum by the Gov-
ernment of Japan, together with the amount of the annual crop of
Japan and the price of cotton.

(Proc. U. 8. Nat. Mus., 1882, iv, pp. 449-453.)

JORDAN, David 8. Bull trout and pompano.
(Forest and Stream, Apr. 20, 1882, xvi11, p. 230.)

Description of a new species of Blenny (Lsesthes gilberti) from

Santa Barbara, Cal.
(Proc. Nat. Mus., v, pp. 349-351.)

——_ The gasper-gou.

(Forest and Stream, No. 10, x1x, p. 192.)

— The blue-back trout.

(Forest and Stream, No. 20, x1x, p. 389.)
Contains list of all North American Salmonide.

JORDAN, DAVID 8.,and CHARLES H. GILBERT. List of fishes collected
by Lieut. Henry E. Nichols, U.S. N., in the Gulf of California, and
on the west coast of Lower California, with descriptions of four new
species.

(Proc. Nat. Mus., 1881, rv, pp. 273-279.)

Descriptions of thirty-three new species of fishes from Mazatlan,

Mexico.
(Proc. Nat. Mus., 1881, iv, pp. 338-365.)
REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 189

JORDAN, Davin S., and CHARLES H. GILBERT. Description of a new
species of Pomadasys from Mazatlan, with a key to the species
known to inhabit the Pacific coasts of tropical America.

(Proc. Nat. Mus., 1881, Iv, pp. 383-388.)

— Description of five new species of fishes from Mazatlan, Mexico.
(Proc. Nat. Mus., 1881, 1v, pp. 458-463. )

Descriptions of nineteen new species of fishes from the Bay of
Panama.
(Bull. U. S. F. C., 1882, 1, pp. 306-335.)

Description of four new species of sharks from Mazatlan,
Mexico.
(Proc. Nat. Mus., 1882, v, pp. 102-110.)

Description of a new shark (Carcharias lamiella) from San Diego,
Cal.
(Proc. Nat. Mus., 1882, v, pp. 110, 111.)

Description of a new Cyprinodont (Zygonectes inurus) from
Southern Illinois.
(Proc. Nat. Mus., 1882, v, pp. 143, 144.)

Description of a new species of Uranidea (Uranidea pollicaris)
from Lake Michigan.

(Proc. Nat. Mus., 1882, v, pp. 222, 223.)

Description of a new species of Xenichthys (Xenichthys xenu-
rus) from the west coast of Central America.
(Proc. Nat. Mus., 1881, Iv, p. 454.)

Notes on fishes observed about Pensacola, Fla., and Galveston,
Tex., with description of new species.
(Proc. Nat. Mus., 1882, v, pp. 241-307.)

Description of a new species of Conodon (Conodon serrifer) from
Boca Soledad, Lower California.

(Proc. Nat. Mus., 1882, v, pp. 351, 352.) }

— Catalogue of the fishes collected by Mr. John Xantus at Cape
San Lueas, which are now in the United States National Museum,
with descriptions of eight new species.

(Proc. Nat. Mus., 1882, v, pp. 353-371.)

List of fishes collected by John Xantus at Colima, Mexico.
(Proc. Nat. Mus., 1882, v, pp. 371, 372.)

List of fishes collected at Panama by Capt. John M. Dow, now
in the United States National Museum.

(Proc. Nat. Mus., 1882, v, pp. 373-378.)

List of a collection of fishes made by Mr. L. Belding near Cape
San Lucas, Lower California.

(Proc. Nat. Mus., 1882, v, pp. 378-381.)
190 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM.

JORDAN, DAviID 8., and CHARLES H. GILBERT. List of fishes collected
at Panama by Rev. Mr. Rowell, now preserved in the United States
National Museum.

(Proc. Nat. Mus., 1882, v, pp, 381, 382.)

Descriptions of two new species of fishes (Sebastichthys umbrosus
and Citharichthys stigmeus) collected at Santa Barbara, Cal., by
Andrea Larco.

(Proc. Nat. Mus., 1882, v, pp. 410-412.)

A review of the siluroid fishes found on the Pacific coast of
tropical America, with descriptions of three new species.
(Bull. U. 8. F. C., 1882, 11, pp. 34-54.)

Description of a new species of Goby (Gobiosoma ios) from Van-
couver’s Island.

(Proc, Nat. Mus., 1882, v, pp. 487, 438.)

List of fishes collected at Mazatlan, Mexico, by Charles H.
Gilbert.

(Bull. U. S. F. C., 1882, 0, pp. 105-108.)

List of fishes collected at Panama by Charles H. Gilbert.
(Bull. U. 8. F. C., 1882, 0, pp. 109-111.)

LAWRENCE, GEO. N. Description of a new species of swift of the
genus Chetura, with notes on two other little-known birds.

(Ann. N. Y. Acad. Sciences, No. 8, March, 1882, 11, pp. 245,246.)
Chetura gaumeri; based in part on National Museum specimens.

Descriptions of two new species of birds from Yucatan of the
families Columbide and Formicariide.
(Ann. N. Y. Acad. Sci., No. 9, 1882, 11, pp. —?, from unpaged oversheets. )

Leptoptila fulviventris and Formicarius pallidus, only rescinded after compari-
son with National Museum specimens.

LUCAS, FREDERIC A. A critique on museum specimens. 8°, pp. 4.

Read at the general meeting of the Society of American Taxidermists, Bos-
ton, Mass., Dec. 14, 1881; also in second Ann. Rept. Soc. Amer. Taxidermists,
March 25, 1881, to March 24, 1882, pp. 34-37.

Bibliography of taxidermy.
(Second Ann. Rept. Soc. Amer. Taxidermists, March 25, 1881, to March 24,
1882, pp. 47-49.)
McDONALD, MARSHALL. Experiments in the transportation of the
German carp m a limited supply of water.
(Bull. U. S. F. C., 1882, 1, pp. 215-218.)

— — On retarding shad eggs.

(Forest and Stream, Apr. 20, 1882, No. 12, xvii, p. 230; also in Trans.
Amer. Fish Cult. Assoc., 1882, pp. 11-13.)
REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 191

McDoNALD, MARSHALL. On the laws of the relation of periodicity in
development to temperature.
(Proc. Biol. Soce., Wash., 1882, 1, p. 28. Title only.)

Recent experiments in fish-culture.

(Proce. Biol. Soc., Wash., 1882, 1, pp. 32,33; alsoin Trans. Amer. Fish Cult.
Assoc., 1882.)

Observations upon young shad in confinement.

(Proc. Biol. Soc., Wash., 1882, 1, p. 34. Oral communication.)

Mason, JoHN J. Minute structure of the central nervous system of
certain reptiles and batrachians of America. Llustrated by per-
manent photo-micrographs, by John J. Mason, M. D. Series A.
Author’s edition. Onehundred. Newport, 1879-1882. 4°, 24 pp.,
Cx1 plates.

MATHER, FRED. The dead fish.

(Forest and Stream, Apr. 13, 1882, No. 11, xvuu1, p. 212.)
Refers to tile-fish, Lopholatilus chamealeonticeps.

——— The tile-fish.
(Forest and Stream, Apr. 27, 1882, No. 13, xvu1I, p. 250.)
An illustration of the species furnished by Prof. 8. F. Baird is here given.
(Editor.) Other dead fish. :
(Forest and Stream, May 4, 1882, No. 14, xv1u1, p. 270.)
Refers to Peristedium miniatum.
(Editor.) The gasper-gou.
(Forest and Stream, Aug. 17, 1882, No. 3, x1x, p. 45.)
Refers to Haploidonotus grunniens.
——— (Kditor.) Land-locked salmon in New York.
(Forest and Stream, Dec. 21, 1882, No. 21, xrx, p. 411.)
Refers to the salmon received from Mr. Thompson through Mr. Blackford.
(Editor.) The dead fish.

(Forest and Stream, Mar. 30, 1882, No. 9, xvii, p. 170.)
Refers to the tile-fish mortality, but with some confusion as to the fish in
question. This error is righted in the same paper, May 4, 1882.

(Editor.) New fishes in Chesapeake Bay.

(Forest and Stream, Mar. 30, 1882, No. 9, xvii, p. 172.

Mentions the capture of Squalus acanthias and Phycis requi by the “ Fish
Hawk.”

Nuttine, C. C. On a collection of birds from the hacienda “La
Palma,” Gulf of Nicoya, Costa Rica. [With critical notes by R.
Ridgway. |

(Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., 1882, v, pp. 382-409. )

The specimens which form the basis of this paper are mainly in the National
Museum collection. The paper was prepared by Messrs. Nutting and Ridg-.
way, conjointly, the former furnishing the field-notes, and the latter being
responsible for the nomenclature and all critical remarks. The new species
are Myiarchus nuttingi Ridgw., and Icterus pectoralis espinachi Nutting.
192 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM.

PHILLIPS, BARNET. The tile-fish is not found.

(Forest and Stream, Oct. 5, 1882, No. 10, xrx, p. 190.)

Refers to finding Scorpena dactyloptera abundantly.
ROBERTSON, R. R.—The gasper-gou is edible.

(Forest and Stream, Sept. 14, 1882, No. 7, x1x, p. 132.)

Refers to Haploidonotus grunniens sent to the U. 8. National Museum.
RyDER, JoHN A. The protozoa and protophytes considered as the

primary or indirect source of the food-fishes.
(Bull. U. S. Fish Comm., 1882, 1, pp. 236-251.)

The micropyle of the egg of the white perch.

(Bull. U. S. F. C., 1882, 1, p. 282.)

Development of the silver gar (Belone longirostris), with obser-
vations on the genesis of the blood in embryo fishes, and a com-

parison of fish ova with those of other vertebrates.
(Bull. U. S. F. C., 1882, 1, pp. 283-301.)

——— On the nuclear cleavage-figures developed during the segmen-
tation of the germinal disk of the egg of the salmon.
(Bull. U. 8. F. C., 1882, 1, pp. 335-339.)
——— Additional observations on the retardation of the development
of the ova of the shad.
(Bull. U. 8. F. C., 1882, 1, pp. 422-424.)

—— On the eggs and teeth of young shad.
(Proc. Biol. Soc., Wash., 1882, 1, p. 33. Werbal communication.)

SmitH, RosA.—Description of a new species of Uranidea (Uranidea
+hothea) from Spokane River, Washington Territory.
(Proc. Nat. Mus., 1882, v, pp. 347, 348.)
See also SMITH and SWAIN.
SMITH, Rosa, and JOSEPH SWAIN. Notes on acollection of fishes from

Johnston’s Island, including descriptions of five new species.
(Proc. Nat. Mus., 1882, v, pp. 119-143.)

SmiTH, SANDERSON, and RICHARD RATHBUN.—List of the dredging
stations of the U. S. Fish Commission, from 1871 to 1879, inclusive,
with temperature and other observations. Arranged for publica-
tion by Sanderson Smith and Richard Rathbun.

(Report of the Commissioner of Fish and Fisheries for 1879, pp. 559-601.)

SmiTH, SipNEY I. Reports on the results of dredging under the super-
vision of Alexander Agassiz, on the east coast of the United States,
during the summer of 1880, by the U. 8. Coast Survey steamer
Blake, Commander J. B. Bartlett, U. S. N., commanding. XVII.
Report on the Crustacea. Part I. Decapoda, by Sidney I. Smith.

(Bulletin of the Museum of Comparative Zoology of Harvard College, x,
No. 1, June, 1882, p. 108, 16 plates.)

Forty-seven species are described, of which 20 are new. Five new genera
and one new subfamily are also defined.
REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 193

STEJNEGER, LEONHARD. Description of two new races of Myadestes
obscurus, Lafr.
(Proc. U. 8. Nat. Mus., 1881, 1v, pp. 371-374.)
Types of the new races (M. obscurus insularis, from the Tres Marias Islands,
and M. obscurus occidentalis, Western Mexico), in National Museum collection.

Synopsis of the West Indian Myadestes.
(Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., 1882, v, pp. 15-27.)
A yaluable review, based almost wholly upon National Museum material.
Outlines of a monograph of the Cygnine.

(Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., 1882, v, pp. 174-233.)

A most important paper relating to the classification of the swans, and em-
bracing critical notes upon all the known species, based in considerable part
upon National Museum specimens.

STREET, THOMAS H. A study of the Phronimide of the North Pacific
Survey Expedition.
(Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., June, 1882, v, pp. 3-9.)
SWAN, JAMES G. Shad in Puget Sound.
(Bull. U. §. F. C., 1882, 11, p. 152.)

SWAIN, JOSEPH. A review of the Syngnathine of the United States,
with a description of one new species.
(Proc. Nat. Mus., 1882, v, pp. 307-315.)

A review of the species of Stolephorus found on the Atlantic
coast of the United States.

(Bull. U.S. F. C., 1882, 01, pp. 55-57.)
See also SMITH and SWAIN. °*

TANNER, Lieut. Z. L., U. S. N. Report of an exploring trip of the
steamer Fish Hawk in Chesapeake Bay in the early spring of 1882.

(Bull. U. S. F. C., Nov. 4, 1882, m1, pp. 133-135.)

The unpublished results of this trip are of great interest. Numerous
species of fishes whose presence in the bay at that time of year was quite
unexpected, were taken in abundance. Among them were the following:
Raia ocellata, Squalus acanthias, Brevoortia tyrannus, Clupea vernalis, Clupea
estivalis, Stolephorus sp., Phycis regnis, Phycis chuss?, Pogonias chromis juv.,
Gobiesox sp., and Gobiosoma alepidotum.

TURNER, LUCIEN M. On Lagopus mutus, Leach, and its allies.

(Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., 1882, v, pp. 225-233.)
Based entirely upon National Museum material.

VERRILL, A. E. Notice of the remarkable marine fauna occupying
the outer banks off the southern coast of New England. No. 3.
(Brief Contributions to Zoology, from the Museum of Yale College.)

(Amer. Jour. Science, February, 1882, xx, pp. 135-142.)

A general account of the deep-sea investigations of the U. S. Fish Commis-
sion for September, 1881, with a list of the dredging stations and of the
more interesting Echinoderms, with notes. The following new species are
described: Archaster bairdii, Ophioglypha aurantiaca, and Amphiura macilenta.

H. Mis. 26——13
194 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM.

VEERRILL, A. I. The same continued. No. 4.
(Brief Contributions, ete. IJbid., March, 1882, xx111, pp. 216-225.)
A complete list of the Echinoderms found in the same region; 48 species.
New genera and species are described as follows: One genus and species of
Holothurian, one species of the Asterias, one species of Ophiuran, and six
species of Actinians.

The same continued. No. 5.

(Brief Contributions, ete Jbid., April, 1882, xx111, pp. 309-316.)

Continuation of the list of Anthozoa, with notes on fhe more interesting
species.

The same continued. No. 6.

(Brief Contributions, ete. Jbid., May, 1882, xx111, pp. 406-408. )

“Remarkable modes of growth and repair in Parasmilia lymani.” ‘‘ Res-
toration of the disk in Ophiurans.”

— — The same continued. No. 7.

(Brief Contributions, etc. Ibid., Nov., 1882, xxIv, pp. 360-371.)

A general account of the investigations of U. S. Fish Commission, for the
summer of 1882, with a partial list of the dredging stations, and a discussion
of the principal discoveries. ‘‘ Evidence of great destruction of life last
winter.” ‘Additions to the fauna of Vineyard Sound; surface dredgings.”

The same continued. No. 8.
(Brief Contributions, etc. Ibid., December, 1882, xxv, pp. 447-452.)

‘Nature and Origin of the Sediments.”
REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 195

APPENDIX C.—ACCESSIONS TO THE MUSEUM IN 1882.
Department of Antiquities.
CHARLES RAUv, Curator.

The principal accessions of this department during the part year are
as follows:

Prof. William Boyd Dawkins, Owens College, Manchester, England. Col-
lection of rude stone implements and bones of extinct animals from
the Creswell caves, N. E. Derbyshire, and from Windy Knoll, Castle-
ton, Derbyshire, England.

A. E. Douglas, New York, N. Y. Three tlint drills of peculiar shape
from Chariton and Saline Counties, Missouri. Casts.

Capt. G. M. Wheeler, U. S. Geographical Survey. Collection of leaf-
shaped implements, arrow-heads, perforators, stone axes and mauls
with double grooves, and specimens of pottery from different locali-
ties in New Mexico. This collection had been loaned to Mr. F. W.
Putnam, of the Peabody Museum, Cambridge, Mass., and some of the
specimens are figured in Vol. VII of the U. S. Geographical Surveys
west of the 100th meridian.

Oito Simsky, Philadelphia, Pa. Nine amber beads from Bronze-age
tumuli on the Baltic coast north of K6nigsberg, Prussia.

Dr. F. M. Endlich, Reading, Pa. One specimen of unhusked charred
corn, from ruins on the San Juan River, New Mexico.

E. M. Brigham, now in South America. Collection of ancient pottery,
painted and ornamented, from the island of Marajo, Brazil. Worthy
of especial mention are two very large burial vases.

William Taylor, Alapaha, Berrien County, Georgia. Human bones from
mounds in Georgia. Among them two tibie exhibiting platycnemism
in a high degree.

José 0. Zeledon, Costa Rica, C. A. A valuable collection of stone im-
plements and carvings, clay vessels, and grotesque images from Costa
Rica.

©. L. Stratton, Knoxville, Tenn. Large collection of stone imple-
ments, &c., from the neighborhood of Knoxville, and collection from
a mound on French Broad River, 15 miles above Knoxville, consist-
ing of pin-shaped objects of shell, shell beads, shell gorgets with
human faces carved on them, and others ornamented with lines and
dots, small clay vessel, one human skull and thigh-bone.
196 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM.

M. Tandy, Dallas City, Hancock County, Illinois. Large collection of flint
implements, polished celts (one of hematite), hematite chisel, grooved
axes (some of peculiar shape, differing from any in the museum ex-
hibit), pestle. hammer-stones, hematite sinker, polished spear-head,
catlinite bead, paint-stones, &e., from Hancock County, Illinois. Two
large mortars from a mound in Dallas City.

M. H. Thomson, Pecan Point, Mississippi County, Arkansas. Collection of
stone and bone implements and clay vessels from Indian graves near
Pecan Point.

Rev. T. D. Weems, Griggsville, Pike County, Illinois. Collection from
mounds in Pike County, consisting of flint implements, hammer-stones,
grooved axes, &c.

J. P. Maclean, Hamilton, Butler County, Ohio. Collection from the prin-
cipal shell-heap on Blennerhassett’s Island, Ohio River, namely, shells
of which the heap is composed, rude implements, arrow-heads, celts,
shell-sinkers, bone tools, and human skull, jaws, teeth, &c.

Dr. J. F. Bransford, U.S. Navy. A valuable collection from Costa Rica,
C. A., consisting of clay vessels, plain or ornamented, tripod vessels,
small double vessel with handle, fragments of clay vessels with gro-
tesque figures and faces in relief, grotesque clay figures, clay whistles,
and fragments of pottery with different styles of painted ornamenta-
tion, small stone celts, and ornaments (beads, &ec.) of jadeite and
other kinds of stone; stone tube from Tonala, Mexico; large clay
vase, painted and ornamented, small clay vessel (bottle-shaped), frag-
ments of pottery, one with human head, others made in imitation of
flowers, &c., obtained from a mound near San José, Guatemala.

H. S. Rusby, Silver City, New Mexico. Collection of rude stone tools
from an aboriginal mine near Clifton, Ariz. .

J.J. McLean, U. S. Signal Service, Sitka, Alaska. Collection of ethno-
logical specimens from Baranoff, an islandin 8. E. Alaska, consisting of
stone implements, charms with family totems carved on one side or
both, horn spoons, wooden spoons, dishes, trays, &c., halibut hooks
and club, wooden floats in the shape of ducks, knives with carved han-
dles, carved wooden pipes and images, dance rattles, dancing mask,
wooden helmets and head dresses, drum used at festivals, bag of gam-
bling sticks, bark rope dancing belts, packing straps, hunting bag,
food sack made of bear intestines, leather suits of armor, dancing
shirts painted and ornamented, model of fish-trap, dolls with heads of
carved bone, cakes of pressed blackberries, and spruce bark.

M. Tandy, Dallas City, Hancock County, Illinois. Collection from a
mound and stone grave in Henderson County, near Dallas City, con-
sisting of arrow and spear heads, perforators of stone and bone, stone
sinkers, paint stones, marine shells, shell beads and gorgets, pierced
teeth of animals, and 1 pearl bead, 1 human skull with flint perforator
driven, not shot, through the left temple.

REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 197

LL. 8. Bliss, Dallas City, Hancock County, Illinois. One stone pipe from
mound above mentioned.

Henry Gillbreth, Dallas City, Hancock County, Illinois. Collection from
the same mound, consisting of rude implements, arrow and spear
heads, celts, and fragment of large jasper pebble.

Louis Bierman, Dallas City, Hancock County, Illinois. Collection (sur-
face finds) from the vicinity of the mound in Henderson County, con-.
sisting of leaf-shaped implements, arrow and spear heads, grooved
axes, &ce.

William Green, Dallas City, Hancock County, Illinois. Collection (sur-
face finds) from the vicinity of the mound in Henderson County, com-
posed of rude flint implements, arrow-heads, and one broken spear-
head, chipped on one of the sides to serve as a concave scraper.

Wm. Rockel and M. Tandy, Dallas City, Hancock County, Illinois. Col-
lection from mounds on the farm of Conrad Rockel, Henderson
County, Illinois, consisting of rude flint implements, scrapers, spear-
head-shaped implements, arrow-heads, flakes, celts, grooved axe,
rude maul, rubbing-stone, paint-stone, and one clay vessel of peculiar
form and ornamentation. The specimens presented by Messrs. Bliss,
Gillbreth, Bierman, Green, and Rockel, were procured through the in-
fluence of Mr. Tandy, and, with his own donation, are a valuable addi-
tion to the Museum.

John B. Wiggins, Waverly, Tioga County, New York. Collection from
Chula, Amelia County, Virginia; namely, flakes, arrow-heads,
grooved axes, and large quartz crystals showing use as tools, and pot-
stone vessels. The quartz crystals were used by the Indians in mak-
ing pot-stone vessels.

. Prof. W. A. Kite, Milligan College, Johnson City, Washington County,

Tennessee. Collection from burial-places and camping-grounds in

Greene and Hawkins Counties, Tennessee, composed of leaf-shaped

implements, scrapers, perforators, arrow and spear heads, celts,

grooved axes, pestles, stone gaming disks, and fragments of human
bones.

A. T. Gamage, Damariscotta, Lincoln County, Maine. Collection from
oyster and clam shell heaps on Damariscotta River; namely, flint and
bone implements, fragments of pottery, &e.

C. L. Herrick, Florence, Lauderdale County, Alabama. Large collection
from mounds near Chickasaw, Colbert County, Alabama, consisting
of flakes, rude implements, chipped celts, cutting tools, hammer-
stones, arrow and spear-heads, and fragments of pottery. Ccllection
from shell-heaps near Waterloo and from Cheathem’s Ferry, Lauder-
dale County, Alabama, consisting of shells of which the heaps are
composed of flint flakes, rude implements, arrow and spear heads,
one clay vessel, fragments of pottery, and of human skull and bones.
198 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM.

Thomas Herran, Antioquia, United States of Colombia, South America.
Small collection from Indian graves at Cundinamarca and Antioquia,
United States of Colombia, South America, consisting of clay vessels,
clay spindle-whorls, cartouche, &c.

M. C. Keith, Costa Rica, Central America. Collection of antiquities
found on the line of the Port Limon Railroad, Costa Rica, composed
of clay vessels, plain or ornamented in relief, stone pestles, rubbing-

stones, plain or with carved handles, metates, plain or ornamented,
fragments of very large metates, and stone-carvings, human and ani-
mal, This is a valuable collection, especially as regards the stone
implements and carvings.

Department of Mammals.

FREDERICK W. TRUE, Curator.

Prof. J. A. Allen, Cambridge, Mass. Fragments of a human skull, from
Corsicana, Tex.

Mr. Sylvanus Bailey. A human skull from Point Providence, East Si-
beria.

Dr. M. Baker, U. 8S. Coast Survey, Washington. A box of human skulls
and dog skulls from Chernoofsky, Alaska, and Plover Bay, Siberia.

Messrs. Barnum, Bailey, and Hutchinson, Bridgeport, Conn. A puma (Fe-
lis concolor); four baboons (Cynocephalus sps.); an ant-eater (Myrme-
cophaga jubata); an African gnu (Cataplepas gnu).  Allof these spee-
imens were received in the flesh.

Capt. L. A. Beardslee, U. S.N. A piece of whalebone from Crisp Sound,
Alaska.

Mr. L. Belding, Stockton, Cal. A collection of rodents and deer antlers
and heads from Lower California.

Capt. Charles Bendire. Four foetal rodents from Fort Walla Walla.

Mr. C. K. Brace. A bat from Nassau, Bahamas.

British Museum, London, England. <A collection of bats and rodents in
alcohol from India and Asia Minor. An ornithorhynchus in alcohol
from Australia.

Mr. EB. L. Brown, Durand, Wis. A mole skin (Scalops argentatus).

Lieut. L. M. Cook, U. S. A. A skin and skeleton of Rocky Mountain
sheep, from Fort Missoula, Montana.

Mr. Jonathan Cook, Provincetown, Mass. An ear-bone of a whale.

Dr. Jos. H. Corson, U. S. A. Three living round-tailed spermophiles
(Spermophilus tereticaudus) from Fort Yuma, California.

Dr. F. 0. Dale, U.S. N., U. S. Steamer Palos, Yokohama, Japan. One
box of mammal skins from China.

Mr. John Darr, Washington, D. CO. A living bat (Atalapha novebora-
censis) from the District of Columbia.

Mr. Waldo Dennis, Oshkosh, Wis. A horse’s foot with supernumerary
toe.
REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 199

Mr. F. L. Donnelly, Havre de Grace, Md. <A fcetal calf in alcohol.

Capt. J. M. Dow, New York City. A living deer and three monkeys
(dipus titi and Nycitipthecus rufipes) from Central America. These
specimens are on exhibition in the rotunda of the Museum.

Prof. Alfred Dugeés, of the Museum, Guanajuato, Mexico. A squirrel an&
two bats from Guanajuato; a tibia of horse (Hquus sp.).

Mr. Vinal N. Edwards, Wood’s Holl, Mass. A skull of deer from Nau-
shon Island, Massachusetts ; two vertebre.

Mr. Gustav Hisen, Fresno, Cal. <A collection of rodents, bats, and wea-
sels in alcohol, including nine specimens of the least pocket mouse
(Cricetodipus parvus); from California.

Mr. Wm. d. Fisher, Kodiak, Alaska. Two rodent skins and a fetal sea-
otter; from Kodiak, Alaska.

Mr, Adam Forepaugh. The African elephant ‘‘ Mungo,” which died in
his menagerie while in Washington.

Dr. Bernard Gilpin, Nova Scotia. A rodent from Nova Scotia.

Mr. G. Brown Goode, U. 8. National Museum, Washington. One horn of
pronghorn antelope (Antilocapra americana).

Dr. W. C. Gorgas, U. 8S. A., Fort Brown, Tex. Two anatomical speci-
mens of mammals.

Mr. M. Green, U. S. Fish Hatching Station, McCloud River, California
(through Mr. Livingston Stone). The skin of a cinnamon bear (Ursus
cinnamoneus); from the U.S. Trout Ponds, McCloud River, California.

Mr. G. Goward. A human skull, from the Samoan Islands.

Mr, A. H. Hamilton, Cape May Point, N. J. Bones of a young sperm
whale (Physeter macrocephalus) stranded at Cape May.

Mr. H. C. Harman, Stafford Cliffs, Md. A vertebra of a fossil whale.

MP Oud. = A bat, from British Guiana.

Dr. Edward 8. Jones, Washington, D. C. A living marmoset (Jacchus
vulgaris).

Messrs, Jones and Williams. Two skulls of the pronghorn antelope
(Antilocapra americana) ; two skulls of the beaver (Castor canadensis)
(?)from Warm Springs, Wyo.

Mr. George O. Knowles, Provincetown, Mass. An ear-bone of a fin-back
whale.

Officers of the steamer Lookout. A dolphin (Delphinus sp.) in the flesh,
from Point Lookout, Maryland. (Cast.)

Mr. H. F. Lorquin, San Francisco, Cal. A bridled weasel (Putorius
frenatus), from California.

Mr. McDavid (through Mr. 8S. T. Walker), Boston, Mass. One horn of
domestic goat, from Escambia Bottom, Florida. Found 6 or 8 feet
below the surface of the soil.

Mr. William Macleay, Sydney, Australia. The skeleton of a male dugong
(Halicore dugong); from the museum of the Linnean Society of New
South Wales. ;
200 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM.

Dr. J. C. Merrill, U. S. A., Fort Brown, Tex. Three specimens of Texan
rodents; one Texan bat.

Mr.J. H. Moulton, Saint Paul’s, Alaska, The head of an Alaskan walrus;
two skins of seals; from Alaska.

Mr. Clark Mills, Washington, D. C. A metallic cast of a portion of a
whale’s throat.

Mr. C. L. MeKay, U. 8. Signal Service. <A collection of Alaskan
mammals.

Mr. E. W. Nelson. One pair of deer antlers in velvet; from Alaska.

Mr. P. W. Norris, Yellowstone Park. Bones of bison, deer, and grizzly
bear; from Yellowstone National Park.

Mr. Willard T. Nye, New Bedford, Mass. One skull of porpoise; from
near Wood’s Holl, Mass.

Mr. Frederick A. Ober, Beverly, Mass. A young monkey in alcohol; the
skin of a monkey; both from St. Kitt’s Island, West Indies.

Miss Tillie Piper, Washington, D. C. A bat(Atalapha noveboracensis),
in alcohol.

Mr. A. Pitts, Sherborn, Mass. The skull of a woodchuck (Arctomys
monax); from Sherborn.

Mr. Edgar Quick, Brookville, Ind. Five specimens of the field mouse
(Synaptomys coopert); from Brookville, Ind.

Mr. Robert Ridgway, U. S. National Museum, Washington. The skin of
a mink (Putorius vison) ; one skin of a mole; both from Wheatland,
Ind.

Mr. Theodore Roosevelt, New York City. A collection of eighty-five
skins and skulls of weasels, rodents, and bats, mostly from New York.
Includes a number of Egyptian bats.

Mr. William J. Rhees, Washington, D. C. Two bats in the flesh; from
Washington.

Mr. Charles Ruby, Fort Fred. Steele, Wyoming. The skin of a puma
(felis concolor), and a fragment of a human skull; from Wyoming.
AI. H. Schwank, U. 8. N. (through Mr. T. M. Ramsay). The skin of a

fox; from Hakluyt Headland, Spitzbergen.

Mr. George B. Sennett, Texas. Three opossums (Didelphys virginianus) ;
from Lonita Ranch, Texas.

Dr. R. W. Shufeldt, U. S. A. Thee head of a pronghorn antelope (An-
tilocapra americana), from Sweet Water Valley, Wyoming; the skin
of a squirrel (Sciurus carolinensis), from Ithaca, N. Y.

Dr. Leonard Stejneger, Smithsonian Institution, Washington. A collec- -
tion of skulls and skeletons of the Arctic sea-cow (Rhytina gigas) ;
two skulls of ziphioid whales; from Bering Island, Kamtchatka.
Among the Rhytina remains are included six almost perfect skulls
and fragments of six others; also four partially complete series of
vertebrie, a large number of ribs and arm bones, and two scapule.

Mr. Livingston Stone, Charleston, N. H. The skull and a humerus of the
grizzly bear (Ursus horribilis); from California.
REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 201

Mr. James G. Swan. Two jaws of the killer whale, (Orca atra); from
Cape Flattery, Wash.

Mr. J. Tate (through Dr. T. E. Wilcox, U. 8. A.). A pair of antlers of
mule deer; from Boise Barracks, Idaho.

Prof. George Thurber, New York City. A cinnamon bear ( Ursus cin-
namoneus), in the flesh; from Ward County, Pennsylvania.

Mr. Aurelius Todd, Elkhead, Oreg. Eleven rodent skins; one skin of
Urotrichus Gibbsi ; the skinofa shrew; the skeleton of a spermophile,

U.S. Fish Commission, Washington. The skeleton of porpoise; from
Woods Holl, Mass,

U.S. National Museum, Washington. A large common rat, in the flesh.

Mr. 8S. T. Walker, Boston, Mass. A raccoon (Procyon Hernandezii) ;
from Tampa Bay, Florida.

Mr. John Wallace, New York City. The skeleton of a babboon (Cyno-
cephalus porcarius).

Mr. William W. Ware, (through Mr. Robert), Washington, Pa. One head
of domestic sheep; from Westmoreland County, Pennsylvania.

Dr. T. EK. Wilcox, U. 8S. A. Two rodents in alcohol; one gopher (Tho-
momys talpoides) in alcohol; one pronghorn head and antlers; two pairs
of antlers; one fossil tibia; all from Boise Barracks, Idaho.

Mr. John B. Wiggins, Wuverly, N. Y. A fox (Vulpes fulvus), alive;
from Waverly, N. Y.

Mr. A. F. Wooster, Norfolk, Conn. A bat in alcohol.

Department of Birds.

ROBERT RIDGWAY, Curator.

ACCESSIONS IN 1882.

Skins. Nests and eggs.
Sa a Sa a
How obtained. a q | A
HS 2 : HS 5) °
aan = 2 eae} | 8
i) ° o s o >) i)
= 9° oa o =) o ic)
=] =I
we | © eo | wae | a | a
Qe Dyplilleeeaececosteeccmecieceaecwe 69 | 1,337 657 20 | 150 85
. By exchange or purchase....-.-.. 30 434 331 5 63 63
¢. From collectors employed by the 39 | 1,193 683 8 37 21
Smithsonian Institution.
ad. From other departments of the 13 745 286 3 48 18
Government.*
Gq DVI GOPOSibe ces noses oon. Be ae 1 il DU ese ee |
ele Miscellaneous tas s2hu ye 55 See clans 51 AGB ena os oe 2 2
Total accessions during 1882.- 152 | 3, 761 | 2, 004 36 | 300} 189

* Chiefly through the U.S. Signal Service.

t Mostly specimens which, having lost their original labels, were re-entered, or in
regard to which there are no data.

¢ The actual number of species is of course much less, identical species being often
represented in various collections. In some cases, however, especially among the
202 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM.

The accessions of greatest interest are from the following sources:
(SKINS. )

Mr. I. Belding, of Stockton, Cal. Three hundred and eighty-four speci-
mens, two hundred and sixteen species, chiefly from Lower California.
A very valuable collection, embracing two new species, two others new
to the North American fauna, and a fine series of the several species
peculiar to the Cape Saint Lucas fauna. (C.*)

Capt. Chas. Bendire, U. 8S. A. Seventy-nine specimens, thirty-five spe-
cies, of very desirable Northwestern birds from Fort Walla Walla,
Wash., including several examples of the rare Kennicott’s owl (Scops
asio Kennicotti) and a very fine series of the wax-wing (Ampelis gar-
rulus). (G.)

Count von Berlepsch, Miinden, Germany. One hundred and thirty-one
specimens, one hundred and two species, of Neotropical birds, pre-
viously not represented in the collection. (Ex.)

Mr. Wm. Brewster, Cambridge, Mass. Nineteen specimens, thirteen
species, of birds from various localities, the same being principally
special plumages wanted to complete the collection of North Ameri-
can birds. (Ex.)

Prof. A. Dugés, National Museum of Mexico. Fourteen specimens (same
number of species) of Mexican birds, some of them rare in collec-
tions. (G.)

Mr. William J. Fisher, U. S. Tidal Observer. Fifty-two specimens, thirty,
four species, from Kodiak Island, Alaska. An interesting collection,
containing some very rare species and one new to science ( @strelata
jisheri). (Ex.)

Mr. G. Goward, U. S. Consul to Samoa. Twenty-three specimens of
birds from the Fiji Islands, most of the species new to the collection
(G.)

Mr. P. L. Jouy, of Washington, D. C. Three hundred and sixty-nine
specimens, one hundred and fourteen species, from China and Japan.
A majority of the species new to the National Museum collection.
(C.)

Mr. Geo. N. Lawrence, New York City. -Thirteen specimens (as many
species), of tropical American birds, the same being desiderata to the
collection. (Ex.)

skins of Old World birds, there are a few species not yet determined, and which have
not been inelnded in the above enumeration.

The total number of accessions during the year to the collection of the Department
of Birds is 188.

*The source of these accessions is designated by the initial ‘‘C” for those received
from collectors of the Museum, or those making explorations under its auspices; ‘“ G”
for those presented as a gift; ‘‘Ex.” for those obtained in exchange, &c.
REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 203

Prof. William Macleay, Linnean Society, Sydney, New South Wales.
Forty-three specimens, thirty-two species, of birds chiefly from West
Australia, and, with one or two exceptions, all new to the collec-
tion. (Ex.)

Mr. Charles L. McKay, U. 8. Signal Service. One hundred and twenty-
eight specimens, seventy-four species, from Bristol Bay and Nushagak
River, Alaska. (Signal Office.)

Sergeants John Murdoch and Middleton Smith, U.S. Signal Service. Two
hundred and forty specimens and thirty-five species, from Point Bar-
row, Alaska. A fine collection, including interesting series of well-
prepared specimens. (Signal Office.)

Mr. Raymond L. Newcomb, Naturalist attached to the Jeannette expedi-
tion. Seven specimens, five species, from the Arctic Ocean north of
Siberia, including three specimens of the excessively rare Ross’s
Gull (Rhodostethia rosea). (Navy Department.)

Norwich Museum, Norwich, England (through Mr. J. H. Gurney). Twenty-
four specimens, sixteen species, of raptorial birds, chiefly new to the
collection. (Ex.) .

Mr. C. C. Nutting, of Carlinville, Ill. Three hundred and twenty speci-
mens, one hundred and ninety species, from Costa Rica. This collec-
tion forms the basis of two special papers in the “ Proceedings” of
the National Museum (Vol. 5, pp. 382-409 ; the other not yet printed).
(C.)

Mr. Theodore Roosevelt, New York City. Five hundred and ninety-six
specimens, one hundred and ninety-five species of birds, mostly North
American (a few from Egypt). (G.)

Shanghai Museum, Shanghai, China (through Mr. P. L. Jouy). Seventy-
seven specimens, sixty-five species, mostly new to the collection. (Ex.)

Mr. George Shoemaker, Assistant in Department of Birds, U. S. Nationat
Museum. Highty-three specimens, fifty-four species, of birds from the
District of Columbia and Alexandria County, Virginia. The speci-
mens all very finely prepared. (G.)

Dr. Rk. W. Shufeldt, U. S. A. Two hundred and ninety-six specimens,
one hundred and eighty-six species, chiefly from Connecticut and
Wyoming Territory. This collection is exceptionally fine as regards
preparation of the skins, a considerable number of which have been
mounted for the exhibition series of the Museum. (G.)

Dr. Leonhard Stejneger, U. S. Signal Service. One hundred and ninety-
eight specimens, ninety species, from the Commander Islands and Pe-
tropolovski, Kamtchatka. An important collection, containing sev-
eral new species. (Signal Office.)

(NESTS AND EGGS.)

Mr. L. Belding, Stockton, Cal. Twenty-four specimens (¢. e:, entries),
twelve species, from Lower California. (C.)
204 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM.

Mr. George A. Boardman, Calais, Me. Eggs of the Florida courlin, or
linpkin (Aramus pictus), from Florida. (G.)

British Museum, London, England. Forty-five species, from Pegu (all
new to the collection). (Ex.)

Mr. BL. Dickinson, Springfield, Mass. One set of eggs of Totanus melano-
leucus, from Manitoba. (New to the collection.) (G.)

Governor Fencker, Godhavn, Greenland. Eighty-seven specimens (en-
tries), twenty-four species, from Greenland.

Mr. Wm. J. Fisher, U. S. Tidal Observer. Fifteen specimens, fifteen
species, from Kodiak Island, Alaska, and vicinity. The most inter-
esting specimens are eggs of the bald.eagle (Haliaétus leucocephalus)
and black oystercatcher (Hamatopus niger).

Mr. h. G. Hazard, 2d, Peace Dale, R. I. Eggs of Spheniscus demersus,
Hudypes ehrysocome and Diomedea culminata, from Falkland Islands.

Mr. George N. Lawrence, New York City. One egg of the Honduras
turkey (Meleagris ocellata), from Yucatan. (New to the collection.)
(Ex.)

Dr. J. C. Merrill, U. 8. A. One set of eggs of the pink-sided snow-
bird (Junco annectens), from Big Horn Mountains, Montana Territory.
(New to the collection.) (x.)

Sergeants John Murdoch and Middleton Smith, U. S. Signal Service,
Forty-six specimens (7. e., entries), sixteen species, from Point Bar-
row, Alaska. Two of the species new to the collection, if not to
science, viz, Actodromas maculata and Pelidna alpina americana.

Department of Reptiles.
HENRY C. YARROW, Honorary Curator.

Two hundred and thirty entries have been made in the herpeto-
logical record book, which would probably represent not less than
nine hundred and twenty specimens.

Thirty-one specimens of fourteen species of reptiles, many of them
very rare, were received in exchange from the British Museum, through
Dr. Giinther.

Valuable collections have been received from Mr. James Bell, of
Gainesville, Fla., and Mr. L. Belding, of California, employed as col-
lectors by the National Museum, and from Mr. Robert Ridgway, Mr.
Lucien M. Turner, Mr, Gustav Hisen, and others.

The accessions of greatest interest are the valuable collection of Mr.
LL. Belding, made in Lower California, which contained a beautiful speci-
men of Crotalus mitchelli, the only one at present in the Museum ;
Crotalus enyo, Bufo beldingi (sp. nov.), Crotaphytus copet (sp. nov.), Uta
elegans (sp. nov.), and Sceloporus rufidorsum (sp. nov.). In the collec-
tion made by Mr. Robert Ridgway, at Wheatland, Ind., was found a
new subspecies of Ophibolus, which has been called Ophibolus getulus
niger. InMr. Gustav Hisen’s collection, made near Fresno, Cal., two new
subspecies of Ophibolus have been discovered, which are named Ophi-
REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 205

bolus getulus eiseni and Ophibolus getulus multicinctus. Prof. E. D. Cope
has presented to the Museum a new and valuable species of Humeces
from Texas, and Mr. Roosevelt, of New York, bas presented quite a large
collection of our domestic reptiles, made by himself. Prof. A. Dugés,
of Mexico, has continued his contributions, which are always valuable,
and we have also been favored similarly by Professor Sumichrast.

Department of Fishes.

TARLETON H. BEAN, Curator.

The total number of accessions during the year was 95, and 78 of
these were made by individuals.

SOURCE OF ACCESSIONS.

TSE CLT) PEAS AN te eee Eee SPR Se eS ees ees Phooedononsecadecousbe 55
Bxehan Peron PULCH ANG cic. 20a 20s wcein mele acl sceamins Slain cee wamistam eae een meer 7
SMI NSONANECOLECLOLS ese serene Se tenis ce ete ee eile aoe Care eee See Eee 9
Orher Government departments esos seas se. sess cee coe eee ee aac eee eee 24
DEPOSI as oes esc se Gedy saicls Mea ciceinjo nc ede eekis cine aa scitesclomee eee eee oen 1

The U. 8. Fish Commission is considered as one of the “other depart-
ments of the Government.” The single collection received on deposit
is from Dr. Shufeldt, at New Orleans, who proposes to monograph the
fauna of Lower Louisiana.

For the sake of convenience the list of accessions is arranged alpha-
betically, and the number of the accession is given. A summary of
accessions of greatest interest follows the alphabetical list.

Akers. 00000. Tennessee. One carp (Cyprinus carpio), four weeks
old, raised in Tennessee.

Alliance, U. S. Steamer. 00000. Arctic seas. One tank of fishes in
alcohol.

Atkins, C.G. 12040. Bucksport, Me. Three fresh Kennebec Salmo
salar.

Baird, W. C. 11366. Chattanooga, Tenn. One head of Amia calva.

Baldwin, A. 8S. 11124. Jacksonville, Fla. One Hrimyzon Goodei.

Bean, T. H. 11230. Potomac River. One fresh Tinca vulgaris from

Broad Creek.

11546. Havre de Grace, Md. One tank of fishes in alcohol.

11619. Potomac River. One fresh Tinca vulgaris.

Behr, von. 11044. Austria. Twenty specimens of Umbra krameri.

Blackford, EZ. @. 11127. New York. One fresh Micropterus salmoides
(10$ pounds).

11189. New York. Four fresh Pomoxys sparoides.

11196. Florida. One fresh Lutjanus Blackfordii.

11296. New York. One box of salmon and trout from various

localities.

11356. New York. Two fresh Peristedium miniatum.

00000. New York. One living Ophidium marginatum.

11870. New York. One fresh Hippoglossoides platessoides.

206 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM.

Bradfield, H. I. 11917. Dougherty, Tex. One fossil tooth of Galeo-
cerdo falcatus.

Chester, H. C. 12056. Noank, Conn. Four jars of fishes in alcohol.

Clark, Frank N. 11701. Northville, Mich. Two Oatostomus commer-
sonti in alcohol.

Clark, J. W. B. 11559. Deil’s Island, Chesapeake Bay. Two Chas-
modes Boscianus and two Gobiosoma alepidotum.

Collins, Capt. D. HE. 12076. Gloucester, Mass. One smoked Scomber
DeKayi.

Cumming, W.M. 11643. Wilmington, N.C. Three Gambusia patruelis.

Dabney, Wm. 00000. Lodi, Miss. An Htheostomatid (dried) in letter.

Davis, W. E., & Son. 11488. Wilmington, N.C. One fresh Megalops
atlanticus.

Dugés, Prof. A. 11113. Guanajuato, Mexico. One Centropomus and
one Mugil from Tepic.

Edwards, V. N. 11036. Wood’s Holl, Mass. One Lophopsetta macu-
lata ? juv.

11101. Wood’s Holl, Mass. Two skeletons of Phycis, one of
Tautoga onitis.

Ferber, Dr. 11754. Canada. One young Salmo salar.

Fisher, William J. 00000. Kodiak, Alaska. One keg and five bottles
of fishes in alcohol.

Fish Hawk, U. S. F. C. steamer. 11206. Chesapeake Bay. Two boxes
alcoholic and one keg of fresh fishes.

Gering, Frederick. 12080. Gloucester, Mass. One Menticirrus nebu-
losus.

Gilmer, G. K. 11131. Richmond, Va. Four fresh Dorosoma cepedianum.

Gorgas, W. C. 11915. Fort Brown, Tex. One can of alcoholic speci-
mens.

Haller, G M. 12048. Puget Sound. One Olupea sapidissima in
alcohol.

Hay, O. P. 11738. Tennessee and Mississippi. One tank fresh-water
fishes in alcohol.

Henshall, Dr. J. A. 11429. Florida. One tank of fishes in alcohol.

Herrera, Alfonso. 11279. City of Mexico. Three Heros sp. and three
Chirostoma Humboldtianum.

Hodge, E. B. 00000. Plymouth, N. H. One Salvelinus fontinalis in
bad condition.

Horan, Henry. 12004. One salted Selene argentea.

Howell, D. Y. 11477. Sandusky, Ohio. Six vials embryonic Stizo-
stedium vitreum.

Hubbs, A. 12155. Mounds, Mo. Five Enneacanthus sp. in alcohol.

Hudson, George A. 11150. Cedar Keys, Fla. Seven fresh Clupea
sapidissima.

Jamaica Institute. 11760. Kingston, Jamaica. One hundred and
eighty-three specimens of marine fishes.

REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM. 207

Jones, Di. Wm. H., U.S. N. 12163. Alaska. One keg fishes, &c., in
alcohol.

Jordan, D. 8., and Gilbert, Charles H. 11500. Mazatlan, Panama,
Lower California, Texas, Florida, and Italy. Six tanks of fishes in
alcohol.

Jouy, P. [. 11262. China. Two tanks of fishes in alcohol (many
species).

11804. Japan. One tank fishes in alcohol.

Tarco, Andrea. 11461. Santa Barbara, Cal. One box of fishes in
alcohol (many species).

Linnean Society, New South Wales. 00000. New Guinea. Two hun-
dred and seven specimens of fishes in alcohol.

Tiitken, Dr. Chr. 11181. Iceland. One Trachypterus arcticus in aleohol.

Manitoba Historical and Geological Society. 11897. Winnipeg. One
tank of fishes in alcohol.

McAdams, William. 12052. IMllinois River. One box of fishes in aleo-
hol.

McDonald, Col. M. 11047. Cherrystone, Va. Two bottles of fishes in
alcohol.

11209. Potomac River. Three Clupea sapidissima.

11211. Washington, D.C. Two Cyprinus carpio shipped to

Texas and back alive.

11615. Fredericksburg, Va. Four species of fresh-water fishes.

Merriam, Dr. C. Hart. 11462. Woodhull Lake, New York. One Salmo
salar var. sebago.

Mitchell, Capt. J. OC. 11495. Charleston, S.C. Two tanks of fishes in
alcohol.

Moore, G. H. H. 11618. Colorado River, Texas. One fresh Haploido-
notus grunniens.

Norny, B. Rk. 11031. Odessa, Del. Skin of Anguilla rostrata.

Nye, Willard, jr. 12000. New Bedford, Mass. One bottle Anguilla
rostrata in alcohol.

Packard, A. S., and Kingsley. 11208. Wood’s Holl, Mass. Reproductive
organs of supposed male eel.

Polk, W. L. 11324. Vicksburg, Miss. One Oarpiodes (?) from Missis-
sippl River.

Radcliff, Captain. 090000. Fifteen miles southeast of Cape May. One
salted Peristedium miniatum.

Rathbun, Richard. 11984. Brazil. Five photographs of fishes.

Reed, George H., U. S. N. 11409. Potomac River. One Micropterus
salmoides and one M. dolomieu.

Shufeldt, Dr. R. W., U. 8S. A. 12122. New Orleans, La. One box of
fishes, &e., in alcohol.

Stearns, Silas. 11015. Pensacola, Fla. One fresh Batrachus tau subsp.
pardus.

— 11123. Pensacola, Fla. One fresh Caulolatilus microps.

208 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM.

Stearns, Silas. 11149. Pensacola, Fla. Three fresh Caulolatilus microps.

11235. Pensacola, Fla. Spawn of Trisotropis stomias with

entozoa.

— 11496. Pensacola, Fla. Three tanks of fishes in alcohol.

Stearns, W. A. 11859. Labrador. Two tanks and one barrel of fishes.

Swan, James G. 11231. Port Townsend, Wash. One winter salmon,
Oncorhynchus chonicha.

Thompson, H. H. 12138. Woodhull Lake, New York. Two fresh Cor-
egonus artedi.

12223. Woodhull Lake outlet. One fresh Salmo salar var.

sebago.

True, Frederick W. 11817. Essex County, New York. One tank fishes
in alcohol. j

U.S. Fish Commission. 11210. Germany. Two Cyprinus carpio; died
in transit.

— 11640. Northville, Mich. Two fresh Salvelinus fontinalis and

one Salmo irideus.

11715. Quantico, Va., and Battery, Md. Eggs and embryos

of Clupea vernalis, Petromyzon marinus, hybrid between Clupea sapi-

dissima and Perca americana.

11770. Washington, D.C. One Carassius auratus (Japanese)

in alcohol.

11772. Wood’s Holl, Mass. Many species of marine fishes.

11818. Wood’s Holl, Mass. One tank and one box of fishes in

alcohol.

11682. Wood’s Holl, Mass. One tank and one box of fishes

in alcohol.

11888. Wood’s Holl, Mass. One half barrel fresh Scorpena,

Merlucius, Phycis, &e.

11891. Wood’s Holl, Mass. One fresh Raia levis.

11918. Wood’s Holl, Mass. One box of fishes in alcohol.

— 12027. Havre de Grace, Md. One fresh Clupea sapidissima.

U. 8. Signal Service. Point Barrow, Alaska. Four species of fishes in
alcohol.

Weaver, George B. & Co. 12035. Seneca Lake, New York. One Amia
calva and one Lota maculosa, fresh.

Whitman, J. L. 11724. Valley Falls, Kans. Four Stizostedium vit-
reum in alcohol.

Wilcox, W. A. 11024. Boston, Mass. Three fresh Brosmius brosme.

Wild, George H. 11685. Red Bank, N. J. Four Roccus lineatus in
alcohol.

Wood, Ensign M. L., U. S. N. 11568. Key West, Fla. One can of
fishes in alcohol.

Wood, Lieut. W. N. 11372. Potomac River. One fresh shad.

Woodbury, J. G. 11790. San Francisco, Cal. Two Roccus lineatus ;
died in transit.

REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 209

Wyoming Historical and Geological Society. 11431. Wilkes-Barre, Pa,

One deformed Lepomis gibbosus.

General summary of accessions of greatest interest.—Most of the col-
lections here noticed were made by persons employed by the U.S. Fish
Commission or by the Smithsonian Institution and the U. S. National
Museum. Some very important accessions, however, have come from
parties who have received nothing more than the tanks and alcohol for
preserving fishes. Several very valuable additions were made by mu-
seums desiring collections in exchange. Other departments of the Gov-
ernment have contributed comparatively little this year; the U. 8.
Signal Service party near Point Barrow, Alaska, forwarded a collection,
which is small in the number of species, but rich in individuals.

Bean, Tarleton H. 11230. March 20. P.

A fresh tench, Vinca vulgaris, which escaped from the United States ponds,
Washington, and was captured in Broad Creek, a tributary of the Potomac,
by Mr. Roum.

11619. June 24. P.

A tench, Tinca vulgaris, which was brought here alive from the Potomac
River and kept for some time in the Armory. It is worthy of note that the
pharyngeal teeth of tench bred here have no trace of hook, but are worn off
so as to have a broad grinding surface, in which respect they differ from
examples of like size reared in Europe.

Belding, L. 11543. Junel2. G.

Among the fishes received from Lower California, where they were obtained
by Mr. Belding, are some species which are new tothe localities. Professors
Jordan and Gilbert have identified one of the eels from near Cape San Lucas
as Leptocephalus conger. ‘‘No other specimen of this genus has been brought
from the Pacific coast of tropical America.” Agonostoma nasutum Giinther,
was taken in the river at San José, where it is known as trucha or trout. The
name ‘‘ trout” for a mugiloid fish is earnestly recommended to the attention
of critics of the synonymy of Latin names of fishes.

Blackford, EH. @. 11127. February 14.- G.
One big-mouth bass, Micropterus salmoides, weighing 103 pounds. The fish
was cast and then preserved in alcohol.

——— 11296. April6. G.

In a large lot of salmonoids received from Mr. Blackford on this date was
an alleged hybrid between Salvelinus fontinalis and Oncorhynchus chouicha, and
there was also a California salmon, O. chouicha, which was raised in Minne-
sota.

11356. April 24. G.

Two fresh Peristedium miniatum, which were picked up dead at sea at the
time of the tilefish mortality.

== 00000. May 16. G.

A living example of the rare Ophidium marginatum, which was caught at
Bay View, Long Island.

Collins, Capt. D. HE. 12076. November 17. G.

An individual of the formerly rare and little-known mackerel, Scomber
DeKayi, sent from Gloucester by request of Capt. J. W. Collins.

H. Mis. 26——14
210 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM.

Davis, W. E., & Son. 11488. May 28. . G.

A large and fine tarpum, Vegalops atlanticus.

Fisher, William J. 00000. December 23. G.

Mr. Fisher sent from Kodiak a ten-gallon keg of fishes exceedingly
well preserved, besides a few bottles. In this lot are many valuable speci-
mens, among them four fresh-water species not before received from the island ;
these are, sox licius Lota maculosa, Catostomus longirostris, and Coregonue
quadrilateralis, all of which occur inthe Yukon region, but were not expected
on this island in the Gulf of Alaska. The first three at least are very old
species, widely distributed, and preserving their identity with wonderful
tenacity, no matter what change of environment may overtake them. They
probably existed on the island before its separation as an island, and they
have retained, apparently undisturbed, all the salient characters by which
their relatives of the mainland are distinguished in the broad area over which
they are found.

Gering, Frederick. 12080. November17. G.
One example of the kingfish, Menticirrus nebulosus, which is extremely rare

north of Cape Cod; this was taken in a herring-net in Gloucester Harbor,
October 20, 1882.

Gilbert, Charles H. 11500. Junel. C.

Four tanks of Mazatlan and Panama fishes formed the larger part of this
accession. Of the Panama species, 148 were taken; 19 of these are described
as new in Volume I, Bulletin U. S. Fish Commission. From Mazatlan, Mex-
ico, Mr. Gilbert sent 172 species; 33 of these are established as new in Pro-
ceedings National Museum, Volume LY.

Haller, G. M. 12048. November 16. G.

A shad, Clupea sapidissima, taken in a tributary of Puget Sound. The
shad introduced by the U. S. Fish Commission into the Sacramento have
multiplied and are spreading rapidly northward on the coast of California
and beyond.

Hay, Prof. O. P. 11738. August 3. C.

A tank of fresh-water fishes collected by him in Mississippi, Tennessee, and
other Southern States; 64 species were taken; they are recorded in Volume II,
Bulletin U.S. Fish Commission, by Professor Hay. Of the 64 the following
are established as new to science: Ammocrypta vivaz, Ioa vigilis, Pecilichthys
butlerianus, Menidia audens; Tirodon, new genus, represented by Tirodon am-
nigenus.

Professor Hay’s collection contained Lepidosteus platystomus, although this
does not appear in his list; he has it under the name L. osseus.

Professors Jordan and Gilbert consider Pecilichthys butlerianus identical with
P. Barratti (Holbr.).

Henshall, Dr. J. A. 11429. May 13. G.

One tank of fishes collected by him in Florida. Among them are some
species not before in the Museum, as, for example, Pristipoma melanopterum
and a species of Zygonectes recently described as new under the name Z,
craticula.

Hubbs, A. 12155. December 4. G.
Five specimens in alcohol of a species of Enneacanthus, which seems to be

undescribed. These were caught at Mounds, Vernon County, Missouri, and
sent on to ascertain whether or not they are carp.
REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 211

Hudson, George A. 11150. February 21. G.

Seven small shad received by him at Savannah, Ga., from Cedar Keys, Fla.,
the first of the species he has known from that locality. These shad, in
measurements, proportions, colors, &c., resemble individuals that the Mu-
seum has from Alabama.

Jamaioa Institute Public Museum. 11760. August 12. G.

This large and very valuable collection of Jamaican species is the second
of a series of shipments to the Museum in duplicate, one of each species to
be kept here and the other returned, named, to the museum at Kingston. The
first can was received in December, 1881. The second can contained 183
specimens, all of them in excellent condition and representing many species
which will prove additions to our collection. The species are, at present,
only partly determined.

Jordan, Prof. D. 8. 11500. Junel. C,

Professor Jordan’s collections, made at Galveston, New Orleans, and Pensa-
cola, filled two large tanks and contained many new species, which are de-
scribed in Proceedings National Museum, Volume V. Some of the species
obtained are the following:

Fundulus xenicus Jor. & Gilb. (types).
Paralichthys albigutta Jor. & Gilb. (type).
Chasmodes saburre Jor. & Gilb. (types).
Paralichthys squamilentus Jor. & Gilb. (types).
Isesthes scrutator Jor. & Gilb. (types).
Hippocampus zostere Jor. & Gilb. (types).
Fundulus ocellaris Jor. & Gilb. (types).
Tsesthes ionthas Jor. & Gilb. (types).

Gobius boleosoma Jor. & Gilb. (types).
Gobiesox virgatulus Jor. & Gilb. (types).
Opisthognathus lonchurus Jor. & Gilb. (type).
Chromis enchrysurus Jor. & Gilb. (type).

It is proper to state that Professor Jordan was greatly assisted in making
this collection by Mr. Silas Stearns, whose vessels brought in most of the new
species described from Pensacola.

Jouy, P. DT. 11804, August 28. C.

A tank of Japanese fishes, which have not yet been examined.

Jouy, P. L., and F. C. Dale. 11262. March 30. C.
A collection of Chinese fishes in two tanks. Many species are represented,
but no examination of them has been made. These fishes were secured while
the collectors were on the U. S. steamer Palos.

Lareco, Andrea. 11461. May. 20. G.& P.

A large lot of alcoholic fishes sent from Santa Barbara by Mr. Larco con-
tained the following among other good things: Liocottus hirundo, Citharichthys
(type), Sebastichthys umbrosus (type), and Isesthes Gilberti (types).

Tinneean Society, Sydney, Australia. 00000. May 7. E.

Two hundred and seven specimens of fishes collected in New Guinea, many
of which are new to the collection. A list of some of the interesting ones is
given in my report for May, 1882.

Thitken, Dr. Chr. 11181. March7. E.

One alcoholic example, from Iceland, of Trachypterus arcticus, the first one
obtained by the Museum.
212 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM

McAdams, William. 12052. December 11. G.

A large number of fresh-water species from the mouth of Illinois River.
McDonald, Col. Marshall. 11211. March 14. D.

Two leather carp, Cyprinus carpio, that were sent to Texas and returned
alive in a gallon pail, a convincing proof of the feasibility and desirability
of shipping carp in a limited supply of water.

11615. June 22. G.

Four species of fresh-water fishes, Roccus lineatus, Catostomus commersonit,
Amiurus catus, and Lepomis auritus, caught after ascending over the McDon-
ald fishway, at Fredericksburg, Va.,

Manitoba Historical and Scientifie Society. 11897. October 2. E.
The Museum received from this society, located at Winnipeg, one tank of
alcoholic fishes through Mr. H. A. Strong. The tank was received October 2,
1882. The species are all similar to those of the adjacent United States
region, but none the less interesting, since we have few fishes now from the
locality whence these came.

Mitchell, Capt. J. C. 11495. May3l. G.
In this collection was a fine specimen of Lagocephalus levigatus and one of
Alutera scripta, which has been rarely observed on the coast of the United
States. Jundulus majalis is represented in the lot.

Nye, Willard, jr. 12000. November 9. G.

Three eels taken from the water-supply pipes at New Bedford, Mass.

Radcliff, Captain. 00000. June 12. G.

A salted specimen of Perisiedium miniatum from 15 miles southeast of Cape
May, found at the time of the great tilefish mortality.

Shufeldt, Dr. R. Wi, U. 8S. A. 12122. December 19. Dep.

In a box of alcoholic fishes collected at New Orleans, La., which were re-
ceived here November 28, 1882, were several interesting species: A Zygonectes,
apparently chrysotus Gthr., Prionotus scitulus Jor. & Gilb., and Hlassoma zona-
tum, the last singular fish being represented by more individuals than the
Museum possessed before from all other sources.

Stearns, Silas. 11496. Junel. G.

This is a large collection made at Pensacola, Fla., by Mr. Stearns, and in-
cludes many valuable species, a good portion of which were described as
new in Volume VY, Proceedings National Museum. A partial list follows:

Gobius boleosoma Jor, & Gilb.

Ophidium Grellsi Poey.

Exocetus Hillianus Gosse.

Chromis enchrysurus Jor. & Gilb.

Stenotomus caprinus Bean.

Mullus barbatus var. auratus Jor. & Gilb.

Toglossus calliurus Bean (n. g.and n.s. ).

Apogon maculatus (Poey) Jor. & Gilb.

Blennius stearnsit Jor. & Gilb. ;

With two exceptions the above are all new species, and one represents a curi-
ous aberrant form of Gobiid@ related to Oxymetopon Bleeker, from which, how-
ever, it differs in several important characters.

OO ee TRIG re

See remarks under Jordan, Prof., D.8., Acc. 11500. Without the assistance
of Mr. Stearns the collection would have been much less valuable.
REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 213

Stearns,W. A. 11859. September 16. G.
Seventeen species of fishes collected by him in Labrador during the sum-
mer of 1882. Among them are some species of especial interest to us:
Scomber scombrus, rare from so far north ;
Cottus scorpioides, far south of its recorded limit;
Gadus ogac ;
Hippoglossoides platessoides; and a small
Somniosus brevipinne.
Tautogolabrus adspersus was found abundant.

Thompson, H. H. 12223. December 27. G.

A fresh land-locked salmon, Salmo salar variety sebago, taken from an out-
let of Woodhull Lake, New York. This form of salmon was introduced into
the lake through the aid of the U. S. Fish Commission, and has greatly mul-
tiplied there.

U. S. Fish Commission. 11206. March 15. D.

The cruise of the ‘Fish Hawk” in Chesapeake Bay, early in March, re-
sulted in the discovery of some well-known species of fishes at an unexpected
time. The common spined dogfish, Squalus acanthias, was plentiful, attracted
there, no doubt, by the presence of large schools of small menhaden, Brevoor-
tia tyrannus. Maia ocellata was also obtained. The young of several impor-
tant economic fishes were taken in great abundance ; among these were Clupea
vernalis, Clupea estivalis, Pogonias chromis, Phycis chuss (?), Phycis regius, and
Acipenser oxyrhynchus. Stolephorus sp., Gobiosoma, Gobiesox, and many other
species were found.

lito, Suly 20: DD:

Among other embryonic fishes received in this invoice from Battery Sta-
tion, Maryland, were some hybrids between Clupea sapidissima and Roccus
lineatus. Mr. Ryder has carefully examined these creatures and declares
that they do partake of the characters of both parents. Development of eggs
of one species after fertilization by milt of a fish belonging to a widely dif-
ferent family has heretofore been considered wholly improbable.

eee 19772. | August 19: D.
In a large number of species of marine fishes sent from Wood’s Holl, and re-
ceived on above date, was Leptoclinus aculeatus, which has not previously
been recorded from south of Cape Cod.

— — 11818. September 4. -D.

One tank and one box of fishes in aleohol from Wood’s Holl, Mass.

11862. September 16. D.

A tank and a box of fishes from the summer station at Wood’s Holl. One
of the most interesting of the species is a Brotulid, first obtained by Prof. Alex-
ander Agassiz, and now rediscovered by the Commission. For this genus Mr.
Goode and I have proposed the name Dicrolene, on account of the peculiar
structure of the pectoral; the single species obtained is to be called Dicrolene
introniger. Another singular genus of Sternoptychidew widely different from all
the known forms ofthat family is also with this collection. Argyropelecus
hemigymnus was taken at station 1112.

——— 11888. September 28. D.

In a half-barrel of fresh fishes, with Squalus acanthias, Merlucius bilinearis,
and Phycistenuis, were several large and brilliantly colored Scorpena dacty-
loptera, found plentifully by Capt. J. W. Collins while trawling on the “tilefish
gvound.” It is thought that this last species may be caught in such abun-
dance as to make it an important addition to the supply of food-fishes.
214 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM.

U. S. Fish Commission. 11918. October 9. D.

In a box of fishes received from Wood’s Holl, Mass., October 9, 1882, were
Coryphenoides rupestris, Hippocampus hudsonius, and a new Maltheitd genus
related to Halieutichthys, but with the dorsal base partly on the body, a very
short tail, pectorals not exserted, and some other striking peculiarities.

———— 120208): November is a).

A fresh female shad, Clupea sapidissima, which had been detained in a pool at
Battery Station, near Havre de Grace, Md., was received, November 7, 1882,
in a spent condition.

U.S. Signal Service. 00000. December 22. D.

From the party at Ooglaamie near Point Barrow, Alaska, were obtained a
large number of capelin (Mallotus villosus), as well as of the polar cod ( Boree-
gadus saida); there were also two species of Cottus, one of which is either
adult C. verrucosus or new, and the other is apparently undescribed.

Department of Mollusks.
WILLIAM H. DALL, Honorary Curator.

The accessions to the Museum comprise some twenty-seven separate
lots, as received, in one hundred and thirteen boxes, barrels, and pack-
ages.

The largest in bulk and most important in its bearing on the science
of any collections received during the year is the typical collection of
land and fresh-water shells, senti in fifty-three boxes, by Dr. Isaac Lea,
of Philadelphia. When this shall be available, with the series of Dr.
Lewis, and that of Mr. W. G. Binney, the Museum need shrink from no
comparison with the collections in these groups.of all the world beside.

The next and for the Pacific coast the equally typical and important
collection of Dr. R. E. C. Stearns, of California, has been received on
deposit, under an arrangement by which it is intended to become the
permanent ornament of the Museum. Comprising thirty cases in bulk,
and probably over 10,000 species in number, its especial richness in all
that relates to the Pacific coast of the United States, in addition to the
Carpenter and Dall collections already in the Museum, will put compe-
tition in that field out of the question.

A very interesting and valuable collection of shells from La Paz,
filling three boxes, with fresh and well-preserved specimens of marine
shells, has been received from Consul L. Belding.

The Senckenburgian Museum of Frankfort-am-Main has contributed
a small but valuable collection of 45 species of recently-described pul-
monates, through Dr. W. Kobelt, their curator.

A collection of ceplalopods long since lent to Prof. Japetus Steen-
strup, of Copenhagen, for study, has been returned during the year.

Commander J. R. Bartlett, U. S. N., has presented some interesting
cephalopods from the Gulf Stream, which were attracted to the vessel
by the electric light used in the deep-sea-sounding work.

Other less remarkable but still interesting and valuable donations will
be found enumerated in the card catalogue submitted herewith.
REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 215

Department of Insects.

C. V. Ritry, Honorary Curator.

Accession No.

10807. Alaus myops, sent by John Dennett, Mobile, Ala

10854. Limnophilus sp., sent by J. Sharp Nixon, Chambersburg, Pa.

11110. Three boxes with Coleoptera; one bottle with miscellaneous in-
sects in alcohol; sent by C. J. Hering from Surinam.

11113. Six boxes with Mexican Coleoptera, with list of names, from Prof.
Eugenio Dugés, Guanajuato, Mexico.

11098. Various hymenopterous insects, from W. A. Williamson, Toronto,

Canada.

29. Eggs of lacewing fly, from Joseph Schanno, Yakima, Wash.

11267. Specimens never received, but were doubtless a species of black-
fly, from M. H. Thomson, Pecan Point, Ark.

11525. Dynastes tityus, sent by Geo. H. McKinney, Stanford, Ky.

11439. Smerinthus modestus, from L. Belding, Stockton, Cal.

11577. Lucanus elaphus, sent by J. H. Turner, Jonesville, Tex.

11600. Papilio turnus and Danais archippus, from T. S. Wilcox, Boise
Barracks, Idaho.

11661. Scorpio allenii, from T. S. Wilcox, Boise Barracks, Idaho.

11687. Galeodes sp., from E. C. Bradstreet, Greeley, Colo.

11786. Dynastes tityus, from Messrs. Hall M. Caldwell and Andrew D.
Cowles, Statesville, N. C.

11798. Chrysalis of a noctuid moth, from J. 8. I’. Batchen, Chicago, IL.

11841. Callidryas subule, from Thos. S. Doran, Montgomery, Ala.

11845. Rhyssa lunator, from F. O. Miner & Co., New Orleans, La.

11848. Papilio rutilus, from C. A. Williams, Fort Lapwai, Idaho.

11850. Larva of Hacles imperiales, from W.W. Karr, Washington, D.C.

11871. Larva of Oiketicus sp., from J. C. Wells, Grenada, W. T.

11877. Citheronia regalis, from J. I’. Lewis, Quinnimont, W. Va.

11916. Highteen boxes with pinned Lepidoptera. Source not indicated.

11931. Lueilia macellaria, from Dr. Fred. Hambert, Alton, Ll.

11960. Pupa of Papilio troilus, from the U.S. Signal Officer, Fort Myer,
Virginia.

11969 [bis]. Belostoma grande, from C. T. Davis, Nevada, Mo.

11988. Larva of Hinpretia stimulea, from James W. Rogan, Rogersville,
Tenn. .

12063. Gasterocantha cancer. Source not indicated.

Without accession number, a very interesting collection, by Mr. L. M.
Turner, from the Aleutian Islands, and a series of miscellaneous speci-
mens lately collected during the winter at New Orleans, La., by Dr. R.
W. Shufeldt.

Most of the specimens above enumerated were received in such poor
condition as to be unfit for preservation. It will also be noticed that
most of them are quite common species. The chief contribution is that
216 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM.

by Prof. Eugenio Dugés, of Guanajuato, Mexico, consisting of a number
of named Mexican Coleoptera, upon which I have made to Professor
Dugeés such report as was possible without examination of foreign col-
lections. In this connection I would remark that there is in this country
no public collection of any extent of foreign insects. Hence the need of
such is very greatly felt, since every specialist is now under the neces-
sity of traveling to Europe to study material inaccessible so far in this
country.

A considerable collection, in fair condition, of undetermined exotic
Lepidoptera has also been received, but without any indication of its
source.

The chief, and in fact the only, collection of insects made within the
limits of the United States is that already mentioned, by Mr. L. M. Tur-
ner, from the Aleutian Islands, Alaska. This collection is very inter-
esting, and I have already submitted a full report upon it.

Under this head I would also mention the fact that Congress has pur-
chased the copper plates and manuscript notes of Mr. Townend Glover,
and these have been deposited in the Museum, and make a valuable relic
of Mr. Glover’s industry that can be at any future time used and referred
to. The one full set of colored impressions from these plates, which used
to hang in the Entomological rooms of the Department of Agriculture, is,
however, not to be found among the material turned over to the Museum.
This is to be regretted, as this set was of more value than the other plates
and notes, and could have been made good use of if placed on exhibition
as forming part of an exhibition collection.

Department of Marine Invertebrates.
RICHARD RATHBUN, Curator.

The principal accessions to this department for 1882, as for the two
previous years, were from the United States Fish Commission. Prior
to 1880 the extensive marine-invertebrate collections of the Fish Com-
mission, which had then been accumulating for nine years, were all
stored at the Peabody Museum of Yale College, New Haven, Conn.,
under the care of Prof. A. E. Verrill, who, with several associates, was
preparing a series of reports upon them. Up to that time sufficient
space could not be given to these materials in the Smithsonian build-
ing, and it was onlyafter certain of the other collections had been trans-
ferred to the National Museum building that the Fish Commission col-
lections were ordered sent on. During the past three years, however, a
large part of the bulk of these collections has been brought to Wash-
ington, and is now available for reference. Very many duplicates
have been disposed of to the best interests of the Museum. In addition
to the specimens received through Prof. Verrill large quantities of ma-
terial have been sent direct to Washington every fall, beginning in 1880,
from the summer headquarters of the Fish Commission. During 1880,
REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 217

while the fishery-census experts were visiting every part of the American
coast, they obtained many extensive faunal collections, among the more
interesting of which were those of Prof. D. 8S. Jordan, from the Cali-
fornia coast; of Mr. Silas Stearns, from the Gulf of Mexico; and of
Messrs. Earll and MacDonald, from the Southern Atlantic coast. The
collections brought in by the Gloucester fishermen on behalf of the Fish
Commission, from 1878 to 1882, are also very extensive and of extreme
value.

These large receipts of valuable specimens from the United States
Fish Commission have naturally rendered the collections of this exten-
sive survey the most important feature of this department. Up to
January 1, 1883, there had been received from Professor Verrill 1,973
packages and bottles of Fish Commission specimens, representing the
several groups, as follows:

Crustacea, 138 species.

Worms, 31 species.

Mollusca, 33 species.

Bryozoa and Tunicates, 31 species.

Echinoderms, 44 species.

Anthozoa, 24 species.

Hydroids, 12 species. i

A total of 313 species, and over 200,000 specimens, not counting a
large number of the smaller species, of many of which there are several
thousand specimens each. Nearly all of the above species are repre-
sented by several specimens from each known locality, constituting a
part of the so-called reserve or reference collection of the Museum, the
balance being duplicates. The following groups are the ones most fully
illustrated in the reserve series from the Fish Commission : The Deca-
pod and Isopod Crustaceans, Pyenogonids, shore Annelids, Cephalopods,
Kchini, Starfishes, Gorgonians, and Actinians. The miscellaneous col-
lections sent direct from the summer stations to Washington have not
been fully catalogued, and no definite statement can be made concern-
ing their extent, but they will probably add 50 more species and many
thousand specimens.

The curator, during the past three summers, as an assistant to the
Fish Commission, has devoted the most of his time to collecting and
studying the marine Copepoda, both free-swimming and parasitic, which
are very abundant upon our coast. The collection of Copepodsthus far
obtained and now in the Museum is one of the largest, if not the largest,
in the world, and fills over 1,500 vials and bottles.

From Mr. Vinal N. Edwards, who is in the permanent employ of the
Fish Commission at Wood’s Holl, Mass., the Museum has been in con-
stant receipt of marine invertebrates, collected in the neighborhood of
Wood’s Holl, at intervals through the year, but mainly during the win-
ter, spring, and fall seasons, when this region is seldom visited by nat-
uralists. By collecting at these times Mr. Edwards has procured several
218 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM.

interesting species, which have never been obtained by the summer
party at this station.

The other important accessions to this department during 1882, de-
manding special notice, are as follows:

From Mr. Alexander Agassiz, Cambridge, Mass., a first installment
of the duplicates of the Blake exploring expedition, consisting of 13
species of Anthozoa, 25 species of Sponges, 5 species of Crinoids, 8 spe-
cies of Cephalopods, and 33 species of Crustaceans.

From Dr. F. C. Dale, U. S. N., and Mr. Pierre L. Jouy, naturalists of
the U.S. steamer “ Palos,” engaged in surveying on the coasts of Japan
and China, a large and exceedingly interesting series of marine inver-
tebrates, chiefly Crustaceans and Radiates, from those regions. This
collection derives additional value from the fact that it replaces, in
part, old collections of the Museum burnt at the great Chicago fire of
1871. In that conflagration the National Museum lost its alcoholic
collection of Crustaceans, obtained by the United States exploring ex-
pedition under Captain Wilkes, and described by James D. Dana, and
nearly the entire collection of marine invertebrates secured by the North
Pacific exploring expedition, which was being studied and described by
Dr. William Stimpson, naturalist to that expedition, and director of the
Chicago Academy of Sciences, where both collections were stored. The
specimens from the latter expedition had been described only in part,
and the Palos collection will probably be found to contain much new
material when it has been properly worked over. It is entirely in alco-
hol, and in a fine state of preservation.

The U.S. steamer ‘‘ Alliance,” in search of the “Jeannette,” has sent
alcoholic collections of marine invertebrates, obtained by dredging and
towing in the vicinity of Spitzbergen, August, 1881.

Dr. William H. Jones, U. 8. N., U. 8S. steamer “Wachusett,” has fur-
nished a fine collection of Crustaceans and Echinoderms, from the west
coast of British Columbia and Alaska.

The United States Signal Service party at Point Barrow, Alaska, have
supplied littoral marine Crustaceans and fresh-water Entomostraca
from the vicinity of the signal station.

The U.S. steamer “Alert” has sent twenty-five samples of soundings
from the vicinity of the Bonin Islands, Pacific Ocean.

Dr. Thomas C, Craig, U. 8. N., U.S. steamer ‘ Jamestown,” has con-
tributed a small collection of marine invertebrates from the South At-
lantic.

Lieutenant Elliott, U.S. Marine Corps, has sent one tank of alcoholic
marine invertebrates from the Arctic regions.

Mr. Ernest Wilkinson, midshipman, U.S. N., has furnished a small
collection of Sea-urchins and Crustaceans from the Arctic regions.

The Museum Nacional de Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, has sent, in ex-
change, a complete collection of all the known species of Brazilian corals,
consisting of 144 specimens, and 34 species, procured between Maran-
REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 219

hao, in the north, and Rio de Janeiro, in the south. The greatest value
of this collection arises from the fact that it contains several undescribed
species, and represents a portion of the zoological researches of the Geo-
logical Commission of Brazil, of which the late Prof. Ch. Fred. Hartt
was:chief. Our knowledge of the coral fauna and coral reefs of Brazil
dates from the second journey of Professor Hartt to that country, in 1866,
when he collected 19 species of corals, which were described by Prof. A.
E. Verrill, in 1868. The Geological Commission of Brazil, of which the
curator was a member, during the period of its continuance, from 1874 to
1878, brought together a very large collection of corals, amounting in all
to several thousand specimens, which were placed in the writer’s hands for
study and description. Thirty-four species were readily distinguished,
but the means of properly identifying them were not at hand, and the
completion of the report was postponed until the materials for making
suitable comparisons could be obtained. The arrival of this collection
at Washington will permit the accomplishment of this object. The
writer’s notes on the Brazilian collections are very full, and are accom-
panied by many photographs.

Dr. Charles Liitken, Copenhagen, Denmark, has sent a fine collection
of European marine annelids, containing 85 species, mostly from Den-
mark, carefully determined and in good condition. This collection is
of special value as a means of making comparisons with North Amer-
ican species, the annelid fauna of both sides of the Atlantic being very
similar, and including many identical species.

Dr. Gustav Eisen, Fresno, Cal., has forwarded a large collection of
identified earth-worms, from Northern Europe and California.

Mr. Winifred Stearns, of Amherst, Mass., has sent a collection of
marine crustaceans, radiates, and worms, from Labrador, made for the
National Museum. This cojlection has been referred to Prof. A. E.
Verrill for examination; it contains quite a variety of forms.

The museum of Wesleyan University, Middletown, Conn., has sent a
collection of dry and alcoholic marine-invertebrates from Bermuda, col-
lected by Dr. F. V. Hamlin.

Dr. George W. Hawes, U.S. National Museum, has sent a small col-
lection of marine invertebrates, in alcohol, from Bermuda.

Mr. E. G. Blackford, Fulton market, New York City, has sent twenty-
five specimens of edible cray-fish (Cambarus virilis Hogen) from Mil-
waukee, Wis. These specimens were selected from market supplies in
Fulton market, received from Milwaukee, which city, with Montreal,
Canada, furnishes all the cray-fish consumed in New York City during
the summer and fall. Alsoan 18-pound lobster from the coast of Maine.
This specimen is now being mounted dry, for the exhibition cases, and
will also be sent to the London fishery exposition.

From Mr. C. L. Herrick, Minneapolis, Minn., has been purchased a
small but interesting collection of cray-fish, from numerous localities in
220 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM.

Alabama, and representing two or three species. Also several varieties
of Cambarus virilis from Minnesota.

Prof. D. S. Jordan, Bloomington, Ind., has furnished specimens of
squilla and cuttlefish from Venice, Italy; shrimps and crabs, from Ma-
zatlan, Mexico; and shrimps, squids, and Physalia, from Galveston,
Tex:

Mr. L. Belding, Stockton, Cal., has sent a small collection of dried
specimens of corals and Echinoderms from La Paz, Cal.

Prof. R. E. C. Stearns, Berkeley, Cal., has sent five specimens of
Fadicipes pleurocristatus Stearns, a new genus and species of Pen-
natula, obtained from the coast of Japan, by Mr. W. J. Fisher.

Messrs. McKesson & Robbins, New York City, have sent four speci-
mens of cultivated sheepswool sponges (Spongia gossypina), from Key
West, Fla., grown from cuttings planted by the agent of Messrs. Mce-
Kesson & Robbins. These specimens represent the first successful at-
tempt at cultivating the commercial sponges of this country (a result
which must have considerable influence upon the future supply of Flor-
ida), which are apparently much less abundant now than formerly, from
the continuous drain made upon the fishing-grounds during the past
ten or fifteen years. The specimens in question exhibit a growth of six
months, in a depth of two and one-half feet of water, and the largest
specimen has increased to fully six times the size of the cutting from
which it was grown. In addition, there is a much larger donation of
Florida sponges from the same dealers, containing 53 specimens, and
all the varieties and grades known to the trade. The exact locality and
depth of water from which each specimen was obtained have been fur-
nished, thereby greatly enhancing the value of the collection. This
collection will form the basis of the economic display of sponges in the
Museum, and Messrs. McKesson & Robbins have promised to add to
it equally complete assortments of all the Bahama and Mediterranean
commercial grades. In order to better perfect the collection of Amer-
ican sponges and increase the size and attractiveness of the exhibit, a
purchase was made from Messrs. McKesson & Robbins of thirty addi-
tional specimens of their finest Florida sheepswool sponges. This en-
tire collection of sponges will be sent to the London fishery exhibition
of 1883 as a part of the American exhibit.

From Prof. H. L. Smith, Geneva, N. Y., have been obtained (by pur-
chase) 1,275 microscopic slides of oceanic Foraminifera, selected from
the soundings of several of the United States naval surveying expedi-
tions, and of the British exploring steamer “Challenger,” mounted by
Professor Smith. This collection is of much value, and has been studied
and identified only in part. Professor Smith made these preparations
with the intention of writing a monograph upon the group, but other
labors interfering he was induced to dispose of them to the National
Museum at the mere cost of the materials used in mounting them. The
REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 221

future working up of so complete a series of the Foraminifera, from so
many parts of the globe, would reflect much credit upon the Museum.

During this year Mr. William H. Dall has turned over to this depart-
ment his very extensive and unique collection of Alaskan invertebrates,
excepting the mollusks, all of which he had previously retained in his
own possession for safe keeping. Beyond the hydroids, which were
studied and described by Prof:S. F. Clark, and the annelids, now in the
possession of Prof. H. E. Webster, nothing has yet been done toward
working up this interesting mass of material.

Fossil Invertebrates.

CHARLES A. WHITE, Curator.

The accessions to this department have been by gift from private
persons, and by transfer from other departments of the Government.
The personal donations are as follows:

J. W. Archer. One package fossils from Indiana.

Prof. Samuel Aughey. One package of Cretaceous and Laramie fossils
from Western Nebraska.

Dr. Robert Battersly. One package Tertiary fossils from Ireland.

Prof. G. C. Broadhead. One package of Permian fossits from Kansas.

Prof. Samuel Calvin. One box Paleozoic fossils.

Hillis Clark, jr. One package fossils from Haxiaco, Mexico.

A. Gattinger. An artificial cast of Conularia gattingeri Safford.

Theo. Heilscher. One box Cretaceous fossils from Eagle Point, Tex.

J. I. Parr. One mass fossiliferous Cretaceous limestone from Texas.

H. D. Pride. One box of fossils from the Utica slate formation, New

York.

©. F. Rauchfuss, jr. One box of fossils from Ilinois.

Rev. J. Havens Richards. One box Tertiary fossils from Maryland.

F,. A. Sampson. One package Cretaceous fossils from Texas.

Prof. S. H. Trowbridge. One box fossils.

Prof. Henry A. Ward. One package of fossil crabs from an island in
the Gulf of Tonquin.

W. S. Yeates. One package fossils from Cooperstown, N. Y.

Besides these a few small packages of specimens have been sent in
by different persons, but they are not of sufficient value to be awarded
a place in the Museum.

The following accessions have been received from other departments
of the United States Government:

Ninety-eight trays of fossils from the United States Geological
Survey.

Four boxes of fossils from Colorado; from the Agricultural Depart-
ment, being collections made by the Commission for locating experi-
mental artesian wells.

Of the accessions by gift, those from Professor Calvin and Dr. Bat
222, REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM.

tersly, respectively, are most important. All the others are acceptable,
and some of them are of considerale importance.

Those which have been received from the United States Geological
Survey are of especial interest, as they have served as the basis of cer-
tain official reports.

Those which were received from the Artesian Wells Commission con-
tain large additions to the molluscan fauna of the Laramie group, and
among them are the types of several new species.

Department of Minerals.

WILLIAM 8S. YEATES, Acting Curator.

The department has had 368 accessions by gift, a few being valuable ;
while a large majority were specimens sent in to the department for
examination and report, and proved worthless.

Some very good specimens have been obtained by exchange, notably
a fine lot of cancrinite and its associated minerals from Litchfield, Me.
Two specimens have been purchased during the year; one a very rare
and handsome twin-crystal of calcite, the other an immense beryl.

The following are some facts with regard to the most interesting speci-
mens received during the year 1882:

Col. P. W. Norris has contributed a handsome specimen of Egyptian
jasper from the Ruby Valley, in Montana.

The twin-crystal of calcite, obtained by purchase, is associated with
native copper, to which the crystal is fastened; it is from the Lake
Superior copper region; and since the year 1861 it has been in the
possession of a gentleman in Washington, from whom it was purchased.

The large crystal of beryl, also obtained by purchase, is from the
noted locality, Grafton, N. H. It is 2 feet 10 inches long, and 1 foot
114 inches in diameter, and it weighs 1,022 pounds. It is a twin-
crystal, and its faces are remarkably fine, the angles all being perfect.

From Rey. C. A. Harvey, of Washington, have been obtained by
exchange nine handsome crystals of apatite from Renfrew, Canada
These crystals are a valuable addition to our collection of apatite.

Probably one of the most interesting accessions during the year was
a lot of specimens from the meteoric fall of May 10, 1879, in Emmet
County, lowa, These were the gift of Mr. Charles P. Birge, of Keokuk,
Iowa. One of the specimens shows very distinctly the new magnesium
iron silicate, Peckhamite, discovered by Dr. J. Lawrence Smith. The
specimen in our possession is the identical one used by Dr. Smith in
determining the new mineral.

Dr. IF’. M. Endlich, the predecessor of the late Dr. Hawes in the man-
agement of this department, has contributed quite a number of European
minerals to the collection, some of them being very rare specimens.

A specimen of malachite and azurite, one of crystallized cuprite, and
one of native copper were secured for the department from Mr. F. H.
REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 223

Smith, of Washington, by Dr. F. W. Taylor, the chemist of the Museum.
The spacimens, which are quite handsome, are from the Longfellow
mine in Arizona.

Department of Metallurgy.

FREDERICK P. DEWEY, Curator.

In 1882 there were 56 accessions by gift to the department, but none
by exchange or purchase. Upon a trip to Colorado, where I was sent
by the Smithsonian Institution, I collected 42 specimens of the ores and
metallurgical products of that State, which are very interesting and
valuable. I have also collected a suite of characteristic specimens of
iron ores from Virginia. The only other department of the Government
that has contributed to this department is the General Land Office,
which has sent 297 specimens by the surveyor-general of Montana, and
161 specimens by the surveyor-general of Arizona. There have been
no specimens left upon deposit.

The accessions worthy of special mention in the order of their receipt
are two large pieces of ferruginous cerargerite (chloride of silver) from
the Lake Valley, Donia Aia County, New Mexico, presénted by Prof.
B. Silliman, representing ores from a region which is attracting a great
deal of attention on account of the peculiarities of its formation and the
richness of its ores, besides which the specimens contain a considerable
amount of silver. A suite of 12 specimens of cinnabar (sulphide of mer-
cury) and sulphur, with their associates, from Sulphur Bank, California,
presented by Prof. Jos. Leconte, are especially interesting, as represent-
ing some of the phenomena connected with the deposition of a metal-
liferous vein which is forming at the present time, an occurrence which
is not going on at any other locality with sufficient rapidity to have been
observed as yet. A collection of ores and metallurgical products rep-
resenting the resources of the Territory of Dakota, presented by the com-
mission seeking the admission of Dakota into the Union as a State, one
specimen of gold ore being especially interesting, and valued at $100.
Among the specimens collected by myself in Colorado should be espe-
cially mentioned a solid lump of cerargerite (chloride of silver), from the
Robert E. Lee mine, Leadville, Colo., containing $100 worth of silver;
also two specimens of embolite (chloro-bromide of silver), in chert, from
the same mine, all presented by the superintendent of the mine, Captain
Jackson ; and finally a suite of specimens representing the course of the
Ziervogel process for the extraction of silver from cupreous ores as
practiced in Colorado.

Department of Rocks and Building Stones.

GEORGE P. MERRILL, Acting Curator.

Accessions.—The number of specimens of rocks presented to the de-
partment during the year is 117; the number obtained by purchase, 40;
Dan REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM.

the latter including a valuable collection of Italian marbles, collected
by Hon. William T. Rice, United States consul at Leghorn, Italy.

No additions to the collection have been made by persons in the em-
ploy of the Smithsonian Institution, but 454 specimens have been re-
ceived from other departments of the Government, chiefly from special
agents in the employ of the Tenth Census.

The accessions of greatest interest during the year have been the
collection of building stone collected under the auspices of the Tenth
Census, and the marbles from Italy already mentioned. Besides these
are six samples of granite from the works of McDonald, Field & Co.,
Aberdeen, Scotland, a polished slab 35 by 35 by 24 inches of gray
granite from Henry Barker & Son, Quincy, Mass.; ten blocks, each 1
foot square and 2 inches thick, representing the different styles of cut-
ting and polishing, from the Vermont Marble Company, Sutherland
Falls, Vt.; and similar blocks of sandstone and granite from the Mc-
Dermot and Berea Stone Company, Cleveland, Ohio, and H. Barker &
Sons, Quincy, Mass., respectively.

Department of Library.

FREDERICK W. TRUE, Librarian.

Accessions in 1882.—The establishment of the library being a com-
paratively recent event, the scientific world is as yet scarcely aware of
its existence. Its nucleus consists of the books presented by the Di-
rector of the Museum from his private collection. By far the greater
portion of the remainder are deposited by the Smithsonian Institution.
For the rest, the library is indebted to our National and State Govern-
ments and to a number of scientific men and institutions in various
parts of the world.

The distribution of the Museum publications has not directly aided
in building up the library to any considerable degree. It has, however,
undoubtedly tended to increase the mass of literary matter received by
the Smithsonian Institution, which is practically the desired result.

Less than twenty volumes have been purchased with Museum funds
during the year; our resources in this direction being insignificant.

Messrs. B. Westermann & Co., prominent importers in New York, have
kindly sent to the library from time to time copies of newly imported
books for inspection, with a view to purchase. About seventeen vol-
umes have been bought by the Institution for the Museum during the
year.

The various bureaus of the National Government, particularly those
engaged in scientific research, have shown much liberality. I should
especially notice the Geological Survey, which has supplied copies of
all its publications as fast as issued.

Mr. G. Brown Goode has permitted to be made a catalogue of his
private collection of ichthyological and other works to be kept in the
REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 225

library. By this liberal arrangement the officers of the Mtseum are
able to consult a considerable number of books not in its library.

One of the most important accessions is the Meek library, consisting
of the books collected by the late Professor Meek and purchased from
his estate by the Smithsonian Institution. It includes many interleaved
copies of important conchological works, filled with manuscript notes
and drawings. The Linnean Society of London has generously given
a complete set of its valuable Transactions and Proceedings, and in
like manner the Linnzan Society and the Entomological Society of New
South Wales. The French Academy has given a partial series of the
Comptes Rendus. The Imperial Academy of Sciences and the Geo-
logical Institute of Vienna have also sent partial sets of their publica-
tions. The French Government has presented a copy of the “ Etudes”
of the Mission Scientifique au Mexique. We are indebted to the Bureau
of Statistics and Industry of New Jersey for a set of its reports. It is
impossible to refer to the contributions of individuals in this place.

Department of Plants.

The Museum has acquired, through the mediation of Prof. Asa Gray,
as a gift from the Royal Gardens and Herbarium at Kew, England, the
extensive herbarium of Mr. Joad. Concerning this collection Professor
Gray reports that “it is very large, apparently representing almost all
Kuropean, temperature Asiatic, and North African plants, in copious
specimens from the best botanists and best collections, which have
been distributed in sets—in perfect order—having been wonderfully
cared for.”

This collection has been thoroughly mounted and relabelled under
the supervision of Professor Gray and Mr. Sereno Watson, at the
Botanic Gardens, Cambridge and will soon be available for study in
Washington.

The herbarium of the National Museum, which was in early days
deposited in New York under the care of Dr. John Torrey, was in 1868
brought to Washington and placed in the custody of the Department
of Agriculture, where it has been well cared for by Dr. George Va-
sey, the botanist of that institution. This herbarium is, as is well
known, particularly rich in the plants of North America, including the
collections of all the Government exploring expeditions, as well as ex-
pensive material gathered by exchange and special exploration under
the direction of Dr. Vasey.

Section of Materia Medica.

Dr. James M. Flint, honorary curator of the section of materia medica,
reports as follows upon the material under his charge:

‘1, The materia medica section of the Museum has been enriched dur-
ing the year 1882 by the accession of 1,590 specimens of medicines, most
of them drugs in their crude state, as received by the manufacturing

H. Mis. 26——15
226 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM.

chemist and wholesale dealer. Of these 1,188 were the gift of large
commercial firms engaged in this branch of business, notably Messrs.
W. H. Schieffelin & Co., of New York, Parks Davis & Co., of Detroit
Mich., and Wallace Brothers of Statesville, N.C. Four hundred and
two specimens, consisting of drugs from various Central and South
American countries, which formed a part of the exhibits of those coun-
tries at the United States Centennial Exhibition in the year 1876, have
been transferred by the Agricultural Department of the Government to
this section of the Museum. Some of these it is impossible at present
to identify, since in some cases the name has become effaced from the
label; in others they bear only the vernacular name without reference
to botanical source. There are, however, many among them of much
interest, which it would have required considerable time and effort to
have obtained otherwise.

“With the exceptions just mentioned the accessions have consisted
principally of standard articles of the materia medica, including most
of the new remedies to which the attention of the medical profession is
at present directed.

‘Deserving of special mention is a fine collection of cinchona barks,
presented, through Messrs. Schieffelin & Co., by the firm of Howard &
Sons, of London, which comprises 35 specimens of carefully identified
barks from the cinchona plantations of India, Ceylon, and Java, where
the cultivation of the various species of cinchona tree has become an im-
portant industry; important not only to those engaged in it, but to man-
kind in general, as giving the assurance of a regular and unfailing supply
of this most valuable of all known remedies. This collection of East
Indian barks is supplemented by specimens of the usual commercial
barks from South America; by cultivated barks from Mexico, presented
by Senor Hugo Finck; and by barks and herbarium specimens of the
flowering branches of the officinal species of cinchona, from the Royal
Gardens at Calcutta. Objects of interest in this section, also, are varie-
ties of Turkey opium, in the original packages, and a number of rare
drugs of the Indian pharmacopeeia, obtained by Messrs. Schieffelin &
Co., from the museum of the Pharmaceutical Society of London.

‘Special effort has been made to obtain illustrated works on medical
botany, in order that as complete a series as possible of drawings of the
plants furnishing the drugs of commerce might beshown. These books
have been obtained by purchase, and are already sufficient to supply
good colored plates of the most important medicinal plants of this and
other countries. Photography has also been employed in botanical
illustration, and samples of its work have been received which prove
the applicability of the method as acheap substitute for hand-drawing.

“9, An alphabetical catalogue of the whole collection has been pre-
pared, with class references, by means of which the specimens already
on exhibition may be found, and the proper portion of those in reserve
' indicated.
REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. Rady

“The classification adopted is as follows:

“ Primary divisions.—1. Animal products; 2. Vegetable products; 3.
Products of fermentation and distillation; 4. Inorganic products. The
first division follows the usual order of animal classification from highest
to lowest. The second division is arranged in the sequence given in
Bentham and Hooker’s ‘‘Genera Plantarum.” The fourth division fol-
lows the classification of Roscoe and Schorlemmer in their ‘Treatise
on Chemistry.

‘‘A separate exhibit has been made of a large collection of Chinese
medicines, which came into the possession of the Museum after the Cen-
tennial Exhibition at Philadelphia in 1876; 630 of these articles were
found to be in sufficiently good condition for exhibition, and have been
inclosed in the standard jars of the Museum and arranged in the cases
in the order given above, except that in the second division the classifi-
cation has been founded on the part of the plant furnishing the drug,
as roots, barks, flowers, seeds, &c. This was necessary on account of
the impossibility of determining the botanical sources of many of these
drugs. In the light of the valuable researches of Dr. Porter Smith,
medical missionary in China, as published in his work on the Chinese
materia medica, this collection will be found to possess very great
interest.

“The regular series commences with an illustrative exhibit of the
forms in which medicines appear in commerce and are prepared for ad-
ministration by the pharmacist. This terminological collection consists
of characteristic sample illustrating the definitions of roots, rhizomes,
tubers, and all other forms of crude vegetable drugs; the metals, metal-
lic salts, mineral and vegetable acids, and other chemical products; and
the pharmaceutical preparations, both solid and liquid, such as pills,
plasters, tinctures, sirups, and the rest.

“Following this are the articles of the materia medica, arranged ac-
cording to the classification previously given.

*¢ About 500 labels have been prepared, most of which are now in the
hands of the printer. The labels are of two kinds: Ist. Generic cards,
that may be of any required size, and are intended to give a concise state-
ment of the varieties, sources, modes of collection and preparation, com-
mercial value, and other facts of interest concerning each of the impor-
tant crude drugs; 2d. Individual or specific labels, limited to a few
lines, giving name, source, theurapeutical uses and doses. The prepara-
tion of these labels is believed to be the most important work in hand
in this section, since the information thereon presented must supply to
the general visitor whatever of interest can attach to the monotonous
rows of bottles which comprise the collection.

‘3, Early in the organization of this section, arrangements were made
to obtain the latest editions of the pharmacopeias of all nations where
such publications could be found. These pharmacopeias have an offi-
cial character, and contain lists of those substances of the materia medica
228 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM.

whose value as medicinal agents have been established by a large expe-
rience, and also those preparations and combinations which, from the
frequency or convenience of their use, demand that authoritative titles
be given them, and such methods of preparation be established as will
insure uniformity of strength and composition in all cases.

‘Collectively, then, they include the principal substances used as
medicines in civilized countries at the present day. ‘Much of the infor-
mation regarding these pharmacopeeias was received in answer to letters
sent out, through the courtesy of the State and Navy Departments, to
the United States ministers and consuls-general resident abroad, and to
medical officers of the Navy serving on foreign stations. All but one
of the pharmacopeeias of any considerable importance, so far as can be
ascertained, are now in thelibrary of the Museum. Much time and labor
have been expended during the past year, and considerable progress
made, in the preparation of a universal pharmacopeeia, which shall con-
tain a list of all the drugs of all the pharmacopeias, with their full offi-
cial synonymy, and tables showing the constituents and comparative
strength of all the preparations. This work being considered as subor-
dinate to that relating to the arrangement and labeling of the collection,
progress in it has been slow.

‘“‘4, The collection, in its present state, consists of 3,163 specimens,
of which 2,530 are permanently inclosed in standard jars and bottles of
the Museum, and 2,150 are arranged in the cases and open to public
inspection. Comparatively few duplicates are on hand, consisting
chiefly of the small surplus that sometimes remained after filling the
exhibition jars. Nearly all the specimens are in excellent condition and
are secure from all ordinary causes of deterioration, except such as may
come from exposure to light.

"65, For the further development of the materia medica section, ar-
rangements have been completed whereby an herbarium of medicinal
plants will soon be obtained. It is proposed to exhibit the more important
of these plants, in association with the colored drawings before mentioned,
the former to present form and dimensions, the latter color, and details
of botanical structure. It is a part of the general plan also to show
enlarged drawings representing the minute structure of drugs, wherever
structural peculiarities may exist that would aid in the identification of
the drug. Promise has been given of a valuable contribution to the
collection, to consist of the cinchona alkaloids and other constituents,
in their various stages of preparation and combination. It is hoped that
some generous and public-spirited manufacturing chemist will undertake
the preparation of the corresponding series of the opium products. Min-
eral waters will also find a suitable place in this section, being popular
and often efficient remedies in very general use. The plan proposed is
to show each in the quantity of 10 liters, and with it its saline constituents
in the exact weight which analysis has shown to be present in that
volume of the water, thus representing to the eye the quantity of salines
REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. Zou

ingested with a given quantity of water, and furnishing a quantitative
table, without the use of figures, for comparison. Bottles of the required
dimensions are in process of manufacture, and the necessary materials
are at hand, so that very soon some of the best-known waters may be
exhibited in this way.

‘* Among the desirable acquisitions in the future, though perhaps
the most difficult to obtain, are the so-called ‘active principles’ upon
which the therapeutical properties of vegetable drugs chiefly depend.
Many of these are known only by name, except to the few chemists who
have isolated them, often at the expense of much labor and material.
Doubtless they may be added from time to time, when the Museum
shall become known as a suitable repository for such treasure.

‘* The history of medicine ought also to receive attention in this sec-
tion, and specimens should be sought of the remedies peculiar to the
practice of former times; these to be presented with an account of their
supposed virtues and modes of use.

‘The medical practice of semi-civilized and savage races of men may
likewise be illustrated by a collection of the things used by them, in
whatever manner, in the treatment of disease. The fine display of Chi-
nese medicines, already referred to, is an important contribution in this
direction. Medical superstitions form another branch of the subject, of
great interest, and illustrative objects may be found, not only among
the unlearned and uncivilized, but also in the most highly civilized com-
munities, and in use by the most intelligent individuals. To bring to-
gether objects of the several classes just mentioned, and to collect the
information necessary to make them of value, will require much time,
and can only be accomplished by awakening the attention and interest
of many people, in widely separated districts, who may pick up articles
here and there and note isolated facts. In the classification adopted by
the Museum, medicine, surgery, pharmacology, and hygiene are classed
together. Into the section under consideration, therefore, will naturally
fall everything that relates to the treatment and prevention of disease.
The instruments used in medical examinations, such as the stetho-
scope, sphygmograph, and clinival thermometer ; surgical instruments,
including dental instruments of all kinds, ancient and modern; the
appliances used in the treatment of fractures, dislocations, and deformi-
ties—all should be presented in this section, and a collection of such
instruments and appliances must prove extremely useful as a record of
the progress that has been made in the art of medicine and surgery, -
and suggestive of improvements that may be hoped for in the future.
To obtain these objects will involve considerable expense on the part of
the Museum, or corresponding generosity on the part of manufacturers
and dealers, but they must certainly be classed under the head of de-
siderata.

‘“The formation of a Museum of Hygiene, to be established in this city,
having been undertaken by the Bureau of Medicine and Surgery of the
230 - REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM.

Navy, it seems unnecessary to make any suggestions for the develop-
ment in this direction of the Materia Medica section of the National
Museum.”

Section of Building Stones and Rocks.

Mr. George P. Merrill, acting curator of the department of building
stones, reports as follows:

“The work of cataloguing has been carried on as rapidly as possible
in connection with the other work of the Museum, the specimens being
entered upon the Museum registers as soon as possible after their re-
ception; 611 numbers have thus been added to the register during the
year, and a card catalogue prepared of about the same number.

‘¢The work upon the reserve series has been almost wholly for the pur-
pose of classifying, arranging, and preparing for exhibition. Several
thousand specimens, which have heretofore been packed away in boxes
for lack of proper space, have within a short time been unpacked, and
will be classified and arranged as rapidly as possible. This work is now
in progress, and will yet require some time for completion. In connec-
tion with this work some 1,500 thin sections, principally of building-
stones, have been prepared for microscopic study. With the death of
the curator of the department, Dr. George W. Hawes, this entire branch
of the work has fallen upon me, and has been performed to the best of
my ability. The work upon the exhibition series has been of the same
nature as that upon the reserve, so far as methods of classifying are
concerned. Various styles of cases for the exhibition of specimens have
been designed and are now in process of preparation; a form of label
has also been decided upon, and several hundred prepared, though as
yet unprinted. No duplicate specimens have been distributed during
the year.

‘‘The state of the collection has been such as to offer but few induce-
ments for work to persons not connected officially with the Musuem.
As already noted, the builaing-stone collection of the tenth census is
placed in the Museum, and every possible facility has been furnished
their special agent for properly working up the material. My own labors
have been very largely directed to furnishing what aid I was able in
the way of preparing thin sections and submitting them to microscopic
examination.

“ Owing the delay of work, caused by the sickness and death of the
curator of the department, and the limited time I have had it in charge,
but little has been published during the year; a single article, ‘On a
Phosphate Sandstone from Hawthorne, Florida,’ from the pen of the
late Dr. George W. Hawes, comprising all that has appeared.

“The number of specimens at present in the collection cannot, owing
to the limited time it has been under my control and its consequent un-
assorted condition, be told with exactness; the following figures are,
however, very nearly correct.
REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 23L

Oo

“The total number constituting the reserve series is 9,075; of these
but 7,288 are as yet entered upon the Museum registers, and for lack
of cases only about 100 are placed permanently upon exhibition. For
reasons already stated the number of duplicates can only be estimated ;
it will, however, probably not vary far from 1,500, making a total for
the whole collection of 10,575 specimens, of which only some 1,100 are
as yet entered upon card catalogues.

“Of the 7,288 specimens at present registered, 3,478 belong properly’
to the collection of building and ornamental stones, and are mostly of
sufficient size to be dressed into cubes of four inches and upwards in
diameter, 1,322 having already been thus dressed, and only await proper
cases to be placed permanently upon exhibition. The remaining 3,810
specimens are mostly hand specimens collected by the United States
Geological and various State surveys throughout the country.

“The collection comprises at present 2,500 thin sections of rocks pre-
pared for microscopic study.

‘“The following is a list of the apparatus belonging to the depart-
ment:

“1, One machine for grinding thin sections of rocks.

‘2. One diamond saw for slicing rocks.

“3. One Bonwill’s dental engine for sawing, boring, drilling, or cut-
ting away the matrix from around fossils.

“4, One set of blow-pipe apparatus.

“5. One Crouch binocular microscope.

“6, One Fuess’s lithological microscope.

“Tt is eminently desirable that the various specimens constituting
the building-stone collection be properly dressed and placed upon ex-
hibition as soon as possible. The collection will then contain upwards
of 2,000 specimens of building and ornamental stones, representing all
the quarries of importance at present worked in the United States, as
well as many foreign ones, and will constitute an invaluable reference
series.

APPENDIX D.—LIST OF CONTRIBUTORS TO THE MUSEUM
IN 1882.

Aby, Hon. Thomas Y. Alcoholic specimen of viviparous fish (Gambusia
patruelis); from near Vicksburg, Miss.

Abert, Charles. Specimen of bird-skin (Zamelodia ludoviciana); from
District of Columbia.

Adams, Dr. M. M. Specimen of fungus found growing at root of rad-
ish; from Indiana.

Adams, Mayhew. Specimen of boat-chock; from Massachusetts.

Agassiz, Prof. Alex. Collection of sponges and crinoids; mainly from
the Blake Expedition.
932 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM.

Ainslee, Hon. George. Vial containing lock of hair cut from the head
of Sir Walter Scott during his last illness.

Allan, Robert. Four coopers’ drafts of whaling vessels’ holds for casks;
from Massachusetts.

Allard, P. A. Two specimens pyrite and hornblende; from Kansas.

Allen, Ff. 8. One butter knife made on shipboard, one pair of bone
serapers, one cleaning knife, two gudgeons, one egger’s bomb lance;
from New Bedford, Mass. Model of life-raft and windlass, one sword-
fish iron; from Connecticut.

Allen, J. A. Three fragments of a superior maxillary, and frontal bones;
from mound in Texas.

Allen, William C. Four specimens of fossils; from Wisconsin.

Alling, Charles E. Two microscopic slides of worms; from the canal-
feeder at Rochester, N. Y.

Ames, G. A. Two samples building stones made by the McKnight
process.

Anderson, J. W. One twin watermelon; from Texas.

Anderson, John C. Specimen of asbestos; from Idaho.

Anderson, William. Six eggs of black snake (Bascanium constrictor);
from Maryland.

Archer, J. W. Twelve specimens of Indian implements and two speci-
mens of fossils (Stigmaria ficoides Brongt.); from Indiana.

Archer, Thomas C., Edinburgh, Scotland. Model of Meuszynski appa-
ratus for transporting live fish.

Ashmead, T. Graham. Skins of snow-bunting and red-winged black-
bird; from New York.

Asken, I. M. C. Specimen of insect; from Mississippi.

Aughey, Prof. Samuel, Four specimens of Cretaceous and Laramie fos-
sils; from Nebraska.

Babis, Arthur V. Small box of Indian relies, fossils, and shells; from
Illinois.

Baker, George O., & Co. Specimens of cotton-seed and products; from
Alabama.

Baker, N. G. Specimen of mound pottery; from Tennessee.

Baird, Prof. Spencer F. Specimen of old piano, bought in 1805.

Baird, Mrs. Prof. S. F. One white, hand-woven spread, about 100 years
old.

Baird, W.C. Specimen of head of fish (Amia calva); from Chattanooga,
Tenn.

Baldwin, A. S. Alcoholic specimen of fish (Hrimyzon goodet); from
Florida.

Baldwin, C. C. Two specimens of bird-skins: Java sparrow, Napoleon
finch.

Baldwin, Isaac P. Specimens of minerals and sand; from Virginia.

Ball, James N. (deceased), through his daughter, Mrs. Laurie Wilkins, city.
Collection of minerals, rocks, fossils, Indian relics, ete.
REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. Zao

Barney, Colonel. Leaves and fruit of plant from U.S. of Colombia,
said to be a remedy for dropsy.

Barnum, Bailey & Hutchinson. Specimens in flesh of ant-eater (Myr-
mecophaga jubata); gnu (Cataplepas gnu); baboon (Cynocephalus bab-
ouin; puma; leopard; ape; black and gray ostrich; hornbill (Buceros
bicornis) ; 3 cockatoos (Cacatua galerita); toucan (Rhamphastos cuviert) ;
flamingo (Phenicopterus), species, died in captivity at Bridgeport,
Conn.

Barnum, P. T. Specimen of fabulous bird, and stuffed skin of snake
with three heads, made in Japan.

Barnum, Richardson & Co. Collective exhibit of ores, iron, car-wheels,
ete.

Bartlett, George. Specimen of bird-skin (Ardea herodias); from District
of Columbia.

Bartlett, I. H., and Sons. Specimens of lance-bag and iron crotch for
whale-hoat.

Barton, D. R., Tool Company. Collective exhibit of edged tools; from
tochester, N. Y.

Barton, James. Specimens of whale-boat fittings; from Massachusetts.

Batchen, John S. F. Collections of minerals, fossils, building stones,
Indian relics, with specimens from the great fire at Chicago, IIL,
October 8, 1871.

Bateman, T. P. Specimens Indian relics, four perforators, five spear-
heads, one catlinite pipe, one steatite pipe; from Tennessee.

Bathersby, Robert. Through Barbara Bathersby, one slide of diatoms ;
from Toome Bridge. Also small tertiary shells; from Antodes, Ire-
land.

Bay State Iron Company, Boston, Mass. Three specimens flanges, iron,
ete.

Bean, Dr. Tarleton H. Specimens of fresh fish, tench (Tinea vulgaris).
Also tank of alcoholic fishes from Susquehanna River at Havre de
Grace, Md.: Clupea sapidissima, Clupea estivalis, Carpiodes, Catostomus
(twospecies), Lepomis gibbosus, Anguilla rostrata, Amiurus catus, Belone
longirostris, Perca americana, Roccus americanus, Esox reticulatus,
Roceus saxatilis, Semotilus bullaris.

Bearce, Gideon. Two specimens of rocks; from Maine.

Beardsley, Wilson. Box of oysters-shells; from Long Island, N. Y.

Beardsley Scythe Company, West Winfield, Conn. An exhibit of edged
tools, scythes, axes, ete.

Beeber, M., G@ Co. Twenty-nine specimens showing method of the manu-
facture of gloves, from the skin to the finished article.

Beetle, James. Specimen of boat-knee, steam-bent, model of fishing
boat, frost-fish spear, live-car, bluefish squid, model of whale-boat.
Beetle, Rudolphus. Dried specimen of frog found in molasses; from

Massachusetts.
234 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM,

Behr, Herr von V. One bottle alcoholic fishes (Umbra krameri); from
Germany.

Belding, L. A large number of specimens of the skins, nests, and eggs
of birds, living and alcoholic specimens of snakes, toads ete., corals,
shells, Indian relics, alcoholic fishes, insects, mammal skins, ete.;
from southern portion of Lower California.

Belfield, Dr. R. A. Old Engiish penny, dated 1619, found on “Strat-
ford,” Westmoreland County, Virginia (General Washington’s birth-
place).

Bell, James, United States Land Office. A large collection of living
and alcoholic snakes, birds’ skins, nests, eggs, and skeletons, Indian
relics, plants, and pair slippers made from skins of snakes (Crotalus
adamanteus, Ophibolus getulus).

Bendire, Capt. Charles, U. S. A. Forty-six specimens and (twenty-two
species) birds’ skins; from Washington Territory. One box birds’
skins. (Deposited.) 2

Benedict, James E. One rake-dredge for collecting in shallow water.

Benedict & Burnham Manufacturing Company, Waterbury, Conn. Col-
lective exhibit of brass, crude and manufactured.

Benton, Hon. J. Casts of stone ax and hammer ; from Harrison County,
Indiana.

Berry, F. J. Specimen of tuckaho; from Tennessee.

Bessels, Dr. Emil. Specimens of dog and cockato in flesh; from Wash-
ington, D. C.

Bibbins, F. LZ. Specimen of aluminous hematite.

Bierman, Louis. One box of Indian relics; from Illinois.

Birge, Charles P. Specimen trom large meteorite which fell in Emmet
County, Iowa, in 1879.

Bishop, James N. Specimens of shells; from Connecticut. Also bottle
containing five parasites taken from a common hog.

Blackford, E. G. Warge collection of native and foreign oysters, lobster
weighing 18 pounds, specimens of living and fresh fishes; from Atlan-
tic coast from Maine to Florida. Salmonide; from west coast and
Territories. Living tortoise (Chelonoides tabulata); from Venezuela.
Living cray-fishes ; from Wisconsin.

Bliss, L. F. Stone pipe; from Illinois.

Bloss, Joseph B. Two sections of sperm-whale jaws scrimshawed on
shipboard by sailors.

Boardman, George A. Three boxes of birds’ skins; from Maine.

Bogart, James P. One box of shell oysters; from Connecticut.

Booker, T. H. (through John B. Wiggins). One specimen of bird in flesh;
from Virginia.

Bourne, Jonathan. Specimens of whale-boat fittings; from Massachu-
setts.

Boughton, Mrs. S. H. (deceased), through J. P. Newland. Specimen of
agate; from near Manitou Island, Lake Michigan.
REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 235

Bourland, Dr. A. M. One box of Unios; from Arkansas.

Bowron, Willam M. Specimen of manganese oxide dendrite; from
Virginia.

Brackett, Col. A. G., U. S. A. Specimen of humming-bird’s nest; from
Jefferson Barracks.

Bradfield, H. L. Specimen of fossil shark’s tooth (Galeocerdo falcatus) ;
from Texas.

Bradford, H. Twenty vials, with specimens of ore separated by ma-
chinery.

Bradfute, Charles S. Specimen of gypsum; from Nevada.

Bradlee & Co. Empire Chain Works, Philadelphia, Pa. Specimens of
iron cables for hoisting and lowering anchors, with specimen of anchor.

Bradley, Col. L. P., U.S. A. Section of fossil tree ; from near Fort Win-
gate, N. Mex.

Bradstreet, H. C. Specimen of spider (Galeodes) ; from Colorado.

Brady, E. J. Fourteen skins of Australian birds. (Purchased.)

Brandin, Gibbs & Co. ‘The imperial plow.”

Bransford, Dr. J. F., U. S.N. Hight boxes of pottery, clay vessels
(large and small), stone images, polished celts, etc.; from depart-
ment Liberia, canton of Nicoya, Costa Rica. Also specimen of Hon-
duras turkey (Melegaris ocellata); from Guatemala.

Brewster, William. Seventeen specimens of birds’ skins; from Arizona.
Three specimens Virginia Warbler (Helminthophaga virginia).

Briand, Capt. A., steamer “St. Germain.” Two living albino siredons,
bred from a pair of black axolotls ; from France.

Broadhead, G. C. Package of fossils; from Kansas.

Broadnax, Benjamin H. One box of Indian relies; from Louisiana. One

- aleoholic specimen (Necturus lateralis).

Brown, HE. L. Box of birds’ nests and eggs, skin of owl (Asio wilsoni-
anus), skin of mole (Scalops argentatus); from Wisconsin.

Brown, John FE. Specimen of arrow-head; from Maryland.

Brown, James Temple. Two specimens of coral, thirty-nine specimens of
ethnology; from Hudson’s Bay. Flukes of porpoise, seven lobster
pegs; from Massachusetts. .

Brown, S. C. Specimen of mineral; from Tennessee.

Brownlow, W. P. Two boxes of minerals; from Tennessee.
Brush-Swan Electric Company. One No. 5 electric machine, two lamps,
one parabolic reflector and case complete, one No. 6 lamp. (Loan.)

Buell, A. EH. Specimen of vertebra of whale; from North Carolina.

Bullion, T. J. Specimen of mineral; from Arkansas.

Burden, H., & Co. Collective exhibit of horse and mule shoes, with
specimens and models of hoofs.

Burger, Peter. Specimen of mat made of fibers; from Japan.

Burkart, W., Brunn. Forty specimens of the woods of Europe used in
manufactures,

Burke, Clarence. Skin of Soldier bird; from Australia.
236 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM.

Burkhart, H. Z. Three specimens of ores; from Wood River, Idaho.

Burnham, David. Three boat models; from Massachusetts.

Burnham, A.M. Two boxes fishing apparatus; from Massachusetts.
(Purchased.)

Burr, Fearing. Cast of stone pestle; from Massachusetts.

Burr, Col. Rk. T., U.S. A. Living specimen of Gila monster (Heloderma
suspectum) ; from Arizona.

Butler, A.W. Ten specimens of birds’ skins; from the Valley of Mexico.
Six skins of worm-eating warblers (Helmitherus vermivorus) ; from Ir.
diana.

Butler, Cyrus W. Two alcoholic specimens of water moccasin (Ancis-
trodon piscivorus); from Illinois.

Butler, Hon. M. C. Specimen of phosphate rock; from South Carolina.
Also silver ore; from New Mexico.

Buttrick, J. T. One box of ship’s bread; from Massachusetts.

Byron, Oliver D. Nickel-plated railroad spike from the track used to
transport the car with the late President James A. Garfield, to and
from cottage where he died.

Calcutta Royal Botanic Gardens. Specimens of Cinchona products, barks
(three varieties), herbarium specimens, and alkaloids; from India.
Caldwell & Cowles. Specimen of beetles (Dynastes tityus); from North

Carolina.

Calver, Mrs. Alice E. Suit of buckskin clothes, trimmed with beads,
worn by ‘Little Raven,” chief of the Arapahoes.

Camacho, Simon. Skin of boa-constrictor; from Venezuela.

Cambria Iron Works, Johnstown, Pa. An exhaustive exhibit of iron
and steel manufactured at their works.

Camden, Hon. J. M. Specimen of bituminous shale; from West Vir-
ginia.

Capehart, W. Rk. Specimens of fossil shark’s tooth; from North Caro-
lina.

Capner, Thomas. Four eggs of Brahmin hen, laid in two days, April 9
and 10, 1882.

Carson, T. Burr. Nine stone implements; from Tennessee.

Carter, Hon. George W. Specimen of rock used for paving streets of
Caracas, Venezuela; also seed and hull of mahogany tree; fromPlaza

solivia, Caracas.

Carter, Samuel R. Four stone relics and thirty-six specimens of miner-
als; from Maine.

Cates & Nials. Specimens of minerals; from Tennessee.

Cavileer, C. Red River cart of old pattern, harness, and photograph
of post-office and house at Pembina, Dak.

Centennial Commission (Philadelphia, Pa., 1876). Nine specimens of
building stones, also eleven boxes Centennial records and pictures.
Chadwick, Mr. Specimen of Greener harpoon; from Edgartown, Mass.

Chalfant, E. C. Specimen of mineral; from Indiana.
REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 237

Chappel, Frank W. One living specimen of alligator (Alligator mi sis-
sippiensis); from Florida.

Chase, James H. Specimens of chaleedony; from Magdalena, Mexico.

Chase, George. Specimens of oil-stones; from Wachita, Ark. Turkey,
etc., with samples of oil used in sharpening tools.

Cheshire, W. W. Rude flint implement; from Indiana.

Chester, Capt. H. C. Four jars alcoholic fishes; from Noank, Conn.

Childs, T. A. Six specimens native gold in quartz; from Eagle Shaft,
Virginia.

Church, Joseph, & Co. One bottle sea-water; from Point Judith, R. I.

Clark, Ellis. Ten specimens fossils; from Mexico.

Clark, Hon. J. B. Specimens of minerals; from Texas and New Mex-
ico.

Clark, J. W. B. Four specimens of alcoholic fishes (Chasmodes bos-
cianus, Gobiosoma boscii); from Massachusetts.

Clark, Frank N. One bottle alcohol fishes; from Lake Michigan.

Clark, A. Howard. Specimens of boat-fittings from Massachusetts.

Clark, H. Rk. Specimen of arrow-head; from Indiana.

Clark, Martin. One box of Indian relics; from Ohio.

Clay, Henry. One specimen of clapper or “Nantucket bell”; from
Massachusetts.

Cleaveland, W. P. Two microscopic slides, with sections of coral; from
the Cincinnati group, Ohio.

Clements, Hon. J. C. Specimen of limestone; from Georgia.

Cleveland, William B. One specimen birds’ eggs (Ampelis garrulus);
from Michigan.

Coffin, C. E. Three specimens minerals; from Maryland.

Coffin, J. W. Specimers of Indian relics, cane made from whalebone
on shipboard, and fossils; from Massachusetts.

Coke, Hon. Richard. Specimen of limonite; from Texas.

Cole, Luther. Hight specimens of harpoons and lances; from Massa-
chusetts.

Collins, D. E. Specimen of mackerel (Scomber Dekayi); from off Thatch-
er’s Island.

Collins, Jos. W. Collection of fishing apparatus; from Massachusetts.

Collins, P. H. Oil paintings of vessels and fishing scenes.

Collins, W. H. Specimens of wild-pigeon eggs; from Michigan.

Colorado, State of. Large collection of gold, silver, and lead ores, and
building stones (eighteen tons); from Centennial Exhibition, Philadel-
phia, Pa., 1876.

Conklin, William G. Specimen of iron pyrites; from Michigan.

Connell, D. Specimens of Baker harpoon-gun and blackfish-blubber
hook. (Purchased.)

Cook, H. S. One harpoon, four slabs of finback bone. (Purchased.)

Cook, Jonathan. Specimen of ear-bone of whale.
238 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM.

Cook, Lieut. L. M., U.S. A. Skin and skeleton of Rocky Mountain goat;
from Montana.

Cook, N. N. Pair of duck trousers worn by Mr. Cook when bitten by
a shark.

Cook, Stephen. Specimens of boat-fittings; from Massachusetts.

Coolbaugh, Benjamin. Iron bear-trap and anchor, two anchor stones;
from Susquehanna River. Boxof stone relics, from Bradford County,
Pennsylvania (through John B. Wiggins.) ’

Co-operative Dress Association. Aisthetic dresses of the period 1880-
1882.

Cope, Prof. E. D. Alcoholic specimen of Humeces semilineatus ; from
Texas.

Coplay Cement Company. Cement, crude and prepared, with illustra-
tions showing its uses.

Coppel, E. C. Specimen of steatite pipe; from mound in Florida.

Corbin, P.& F. Large collective exhibit of builder’s hardware, artis-
tic and ornamental designs in bronze.

Corey, L. C. One bottle sample copying ink.

Cornell, J. G J. B. Collective exhibit of over forty objects, embracing
articles of ornamental and practical iron work employed in the build-
ing industry.

Corson, Dr. Jos. R., U. 8S. A. Three living spermophiles (Spermophilus
tereticaudus); from Fort Yuma, Cal.

Coues, Dr. Elliott, U. S.A. Five bills of Melanetta velvetina ; from Mas-
sachusetts.

Craig, Dr. Thomas C., U. S. N. Alcoholic invertebrates and birds’ skins
(Phebetria fuliginosus, Chionisalba, Priocella tenuirostris) ; from South
Atlantic.

Crow Island Club (through Isaac Hinckley). Fight specimens of swans
in flesh, also specimen of ‘goose (Bernicla hutchinsi) ; from Currituck
Sound, North Carolina.

Cumming, W. M. Three alcoholic specimens of fishes (Gambusia
patruelis), also box of living plants, Venus fly-trap, Venus pitcher,
trumpet plants; from North Carolina.

Cunningham, Capt. A. F. Alcoholic specimen of snake.

Cunningham, J. H. One small box of minerals; from Arkansas.

Cunningham, Patrick. Wooden model of the first breech-loading dart-
ing-gun; series of exploded lances cut from whales.

Schooner * Lucille Curtis.” Alcoholic specimen of deadly poisonous
snake “ Oro-co-co” ; from Demerara River, West Indies.

Dakota Delegation, Centennial Exhibition, Philadelphia, Pa., 1876. Large

_ collection of minerals and ores; from Dakota.

Dale, F. C., U. 8. Steamer “ Palos.” One tank alcoholic fishes, inverte-
brates, and box of birds’ skins; from China.

Darr, John. Living specimen of bat (Altalapha noveboracensis) ; from
Agricultural Grounds, Washington, D. C.
REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 239

Dartmouth College. Large crystal of beryl (weight 1,000 pounds), piece
of red porphyry, and samples of marble.

Davison, J. L. Specimen of bird’s egg; from New York.

Davis, C. T. Specimen of insect; from Missouri.

Davis, Hon. H. G. Specimens of minerals, ores, and coke; from West
Virginia.

Davis, J. N. Specimen of malformed corn-cob (of the shape of the human
foot with five toes) ; from Maryland.

Davis, W. £., & Son. Fresh specimen of tarpum (Megalops atlanticus)
from Wilmington, N. C.

Dawson, H. M. Specimen of sulphide of lead; from West Virginia.

Day, Richard H. Specimen of coral (Primnoa reseda); from Maine.

De Liseleue Docteur. Small box of insects ; from Europe.

De Long, J. W. Specimen of mineral; from Ohio.

Dennison Manufacturing Company. Collection of indestructible “ game-
counters.”

Dennis, Waldo. Two bones of fore leg of a horse, with supernumerary
toe; from Wisconsin.

Dent, J. P. Specimen of quartz crystal; from Texas.

Department of Agriculture, Raleigh, N. C., (through S. G. Worth). Two
sections of trees, with tools and products of the pitch and turpentine
industry of North Carolina.

Derby, Prof. O. A. Seeds of Victoria regia; from Brazil.

Devoe, F. W., & Co. One can of luminous paint.

Dewey, Fred. P. Specimens of iron and silver ores; from Virginia and
Colorado.

Diamond State Iron Company, Wilmington, Del. Collective exhibit of
iron and steel, railroad rails, ete.

Dickinson, E. Three specimens of birds’ eggs (Totanus melanoleucus) ;
from Manitoba.

Dill, Jos. T. Specimen of cotton-plant and two bags of cotton-seed;
from South Carolina.

Dix, Dr. D. W. Specimens of minerals; from West Virginia.

Dodge, Col. Richard I., U. S. A. Piece of flexible sandstone; from
North Carolina.

Doherty, EB. P. Scales of alligator-gar ; from Louisiana.

Donaldson, Thomas. Box of rocks and sheet-copper.

Donnelly, Frank L. Alcoholic specimen of embryo calf (Bos taurus,
juv.); from Maryland.

Doron, T. S. Bottle of alcoholic fishes and three butterflies ; from
Alabama.

Dorchester Union Freestone Company. Collection of building stones and
stone model of *‘ Independence bell.”

Douglass, E. A. Three arrow-heads; from Missouri.

Douglas, James, jr. Four stone-mining hammers; from ancient mine
in Chili. Also package of Indian relics; from Peru.
240 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM

Douglas, John. Living specimen of siren (Stren lacertina), of very large
size; from Potomac Flats, Washington, D. C.

Dow, Capt. John M. One living Mexican deer (Cervus mexicanus); two
living white-tufted marmosets (@dipus titi); one owl-monkey (Nycti-
pithecus rufipes); from Panama.

Drake, Mrs. M. E. Specimen of stone relic; from Mississippi.

Drew, Benjamin F. Armor worn by natives of Marshall and Caroline
group of islands, South Pacific.

Driggs, James D. Three harpoons.

Drum Edge- Tool Company, West Waterville, Conn. Collection of edged
tools, scythes, axes, ete.

Dugeés, Prof. Alfred. Collection of mammals, birds, reptiles, fishes, and
fossils; from Mexico.

Duly, A. A. Two eggs of “Seabright bantam.”

Dunn, Hon. Poindexter. Two specimens of minerals.

Dyer, W. Thistleton. Box of botanical specimens and photographs of
calabash carvings; from Royal Gardens, Kew, England.

Earl, Rk. Edward. Drum-fish, bass, blackfish, and whiting gear, used
by Saint Augustine, Fla., fishermen; sounder to sake sounds from
the throat of sea-tro ut.

Ears, Captain. Barnacle taken from the belly of a humpback whale.

Eastabrook, Mrs. C. D. Specimen of tale; from Florida.

Eastman, Prof. J. k. Fragment of meteorite which fell in lowa County,
Iowa, on the night of February 12, 1875.

Eaton, M. I. Specimens of frogs and eggs; from Iowa.

Eckloff, T. W. ‘Two specimens building stones; from California.

Edwards, Vinal N. Nine boxes of specimens of alcoholic fishes (Loph-
opsetta maculata, Phycis, Tautoga onitis), ete., invertebrates (Chetopte-
rus pergamentaceus, Loligo pealii, Libinia dubia), miscellaneous crabs,
star-fishes, etc., skull of deer and miscellaneous bones, egg of black
duck, birds’ skins and skeletons (Mergus serrator, Clangula albeola,
Colymbus septentrionalis), etc.; from Massachusetts.

Egbert, Augustus R. Drawing of Salmonoid fish; from Idaho.

Eggers, S.,sr. Retchen gun and harpoon, Pierce & Eggers whaling gun.
(Purchased.) One frost-fish spear.

Bisen, Gustav. One box of mammal skins and alcoholic collection of
worms; from California.

Elliott, Lieutenant, U. 8S. Marine Corps. One tank alcoholic specimens ;
from Greenland.

Emmerson, W. Otto. Six specimens of birds’ skins ; from California,

Endlich, Dr. F. M. Collection of sixty-eight specimens of minerals,
specimens of charred unshucked corn, taken seven feet below surface
in old ruins ‘on San Juan River, New Mexico.

Evans, R. D. Specimen of rock; from Virginia.

Fain, George A. (through Dr. E. Palmer). Two stone axes and one large
pipe; from Tennessee.
REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 241

Fair, H. D. M. Specimen of perforated stone found near Arlington,
two miles north of Newark, N. J.

Fairbanks & Co. One large platform scale.

Farley, Hon. J. T. Specimen of ores; from California.

Farrier, I. W. One barrel of mineral water; from Texas.

Fearon, R. W. Specimens of minerals; from Ohio.

Fencker, G. Specimens of birds’ eggs and ethnologica; from Green-
land.

Fischer, Moritz. Specimens of stone relics; from Ohio.

Fish, EH. J. Specimens of minerals ; from Georgia and Tennessee.

Fisher, Wiliam J. Specimens of alcoholic fishes, birds’ skins, Indian
relies, ete.; from Alaska.

Fisk, H.C. Specimen of living land puppy (Amblystoma punctatum),
and also specimens of bull snakes (Pityophis sayi bellona); from
Illinois.

Fitchett, W. H. Specimens of minerals; from Texas.

Fitzpatrick, S. Specimens of fossil ferns; from New Brunswick.

Flanagin, H. W. Specimens of alcoholic reptiles ; from New Jersey.

Fletcher, Dr. Robert. Specimens of Orchilla ; from San Diego, Cal.

Foote, J. Howard. Large collection of musical instruments.

Forepaugh, Adam. Elephant in flesh, ‘‘Mungo;” died in menagerie
while on exhibition in Washington on April 6 and 8, 1882.

Fox, W. H. Specimens of alcoholic lizards, centipedes, ete., also one
skin (Pencea illinoensis) ; from Lookout Mountain, Tennessee.

French, Penrhyn & Co. Specimen of black marble; from Glen’s Falls
New York.

Frost, S. A. Specimen of Indian flute; from the Indian Territory.

Fuller, A. N. Three eggs of coot (Fulica americana).

Gallaher, Miss L. Bernie. Package of Japanse pamphlets.

Galvin, C. D. Specimens of clay and mica; from New York.

Gamage, A. T. Specimens of bone and stone implements, also fragments
of pottery; from Maine.

Gamble, Jos. B. (through Hon. William Heilman). Specimens of ores;
from Missouri.

Gandy, John W. Specimens of oysters in shells; from Cape May, N.J.

Gannett, Mrs. EH. A. One whale-ship’s log-book.

Garnier, Dr. J. A. Specimen of living Massasauga rattlesnake ( Caudi-
sona tergemina); from Ontario, Canada.

Gass, Master Willie. Specimen of snake (Ophibolus getulus); from Mary-
land.

Gatchet, A. S. Specimens of arrow and spear heads; from Kentucky.
Also teeth and scales of garfish; from Louisiana.

Gattinger, A. Cast of Conularia gattingeri; from Tennessee.

Gere, J. D. Specimens of Indian relics; from Wisconsin.

Gering, Frederick. Specimen of fish (Menticirrus nebulosus), caught in a

herring-net in Gloucester Harbor.
H. Mis. 26——16
242 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM.

Gibbons, William G. (through Thomas Donaldson). Model in gold, silver,
and steel of the steamship ‘* William G. Gibbons,” built by Pusey &
Jones Company, of Wilmington, Del.

Gibbs, George J. Specimen of cave deposit ; from cave at Breezy Point,
on Caicos Island.

Gilbert, Charles H. Alcohoile specimens of reptiles, turtles, ete.; from
Mazatlan, Mexico.

Gallbreth, Henry. Specimens of Indian relics; from Illinois.

Gillehan, Alonzo (through Dr. Timothy E. Wilcox). Seven small speci-
mens of arrow-heads ; from mouth of Willamette River, Oregon.

Gillis, T. N. Specimens of mineral and rocks; from Mississippi.

Gilmer, G. K. Four specimens of fresh-herring (Dorosoma cepedianum) ;
from James River, at Richmond, Va.

Glasgow Iron Company (through J. W. Hoffman & Co., agents). Speci-
mens of iron used in shipbuilding.

Godding, Dr. W. W. Alcoholic specimens of snakes (Heterodon platy-
rhinus, Ophibolus getulus, and Hutenia sirtalis); from District of
Columbia.

Goode, Mrs. S. F. J. Specimen of sable muff (American), period 1830-
1840; also muff of the later period.

Gorgas, W. C. Alcoholic specimens; from Texas.

Gould, J. Loomis. Specimen of horn spoon, carved ; from Alaska.

Goward, G. Specimens of skull, shells, sea-beans, candle-nut, tobacco,
stone implements, gum, nuts used as a perfume when powdered, and
skins (Didunculus strigirostris); from Samoan Islands.

Gray, William. Specimen of arrow-point; from Dakota.

Gray, Prof. Asa. Seeds of Nymphea scutifolia, latus, and dentata, from
Russia.

Greely, Lieut. A. W., U.S. A. One box of birds’ skins; from Greenland.

Greene, Dr. C. A. Specimens of snails ; from Pennsylvania.

Green, General O. D. Skeleton of trumpeter swan (Olor buccinator).

Green, William. Specimens of Indian relics; from Illinois.

Greenwood Pottery Company. Cask containing samples of pottery; from
their works at Trenton, N. J.

Greer, S. W. Specimens of fossils and minerals; from Kentucky.

Griffith, J. W. Two specimens of ship timber (steam-bent).

Grigsby, C. S. Collection of Indian relies ;° from Tennessee.

Groves, H. GJ. Package of botanical specimens; from England.

Giinther, Dr. A. Specimens of birds’ eggs, alcoholic mammals, and
batrachians; from England.

Gurney, J. H. Specimens of birds’ skins; from Europe (principally Rap-
tores).

Gutekunst, F. Collection of seventy-six cabinet photographs of promi-
nent men of America.

Haller, W.J. (through E. P. Upham). Specimens of Indian relics; from
Huntington, W. Va.
REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 243

Haller, Mr. Specimen of shad (Clupea sapidissima); from Puget Sound.

Hammond, H., & Co. Series of light and heavy hammers; from Hart-
ford, Conn.

Hammond, Rev. M. Specimen of lignite; from Maryland.

Hampton, Hon. Wade. Specimens of minerals; from South Carolina.

Hampton, Cutter & Sons. Exhibit of kaolin; from New York.

Haney, William M. Specimen of rock and fossils; from Maryland.

Hardy, E. D. Specimen of cotton plant in bloom ; from Georgia.

Harford, W.G. W. Two living specimens of land tortoises (Xerobates
Agassizii) ; from California.

Harmon, Henry C. Section of the vertebra of a whale; from Stafford
Cliffs, Md.

Harper, Houstown R. Specimens of arrow-heads; from Georgia.

Harper, Smith. An exhibit of rakes and hoes.

Harrington, C. B (through Thomas Donaldson). Model of yacht; from
Maine.

Harris, D. W. Specimens of stone relics, fossils, concretions, ete. ;
from Louisiana.

Harris, John 8. Collection of minerals and ores ; from Montana.

Harris, William C. One alcoholic specimen of trout (Salvelinus sontinalis
juv.).

Harrison & Kellogg, Troy, N. Y. Exhibit of malleable iron ; full series
of products, embracing wrenches.

Hart, A. Wellington. Specimens of Indian sash, belt, pouch, and two
knife-cases worked in porenpine quills ; from Canada.

Harvey, F. L. Specimens of living reptiles, and one living snake
(Heterodon); from Arkansas.

Haskell, Henry. Three specimens of bricks used in the walls of the
mound-builders at Aztalan, Jefferson County, and one stone imple-
ment; from Wisconsin.

Hassell, William, New York. Collection of fancy metal nails.

Hawes, Dr, A. M. Twosaddles (one Indian and one Mexican) ; from the
battle-ground where General Custer fell.

Hawes, Dr. George W. (deceased). Alcoholic specimens of marine inver-
tebrates; from Bermuda.

Hawkins, Capt. H. S., U. S. A. Specimen of spear-head; from Fort
Thornburgh, Utah.

Hawley, E. H. Two living sepcimens of axolotls, and seven stone
implements ; from France.

Hawley, Wheeler. Specimens of oysters in shell; from Connecticut.

Hay, O. P. Specimens of alcoholic fishes ; from Indiana.

Hayden, C. 8S. Specimens of minerals, snail-shells, etc. ; from Maine.

Hayden, Walter. Specimens of birds’skins, eggs, and Coleoptera; from
Moose Factory, Hudson Bay Territory.

Hayes, W. I. Specimens of living salamanders ; from North Carolina,
244 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM.

Haywood, William P. Specimen of model oyster-rake; from New
Jersey.

Hazard jr., Roland Gibson. Six specimens of birds’ eggs, three alba-
tross, and three penguin; from Falkland Islands.

Hazard Powder Company. An exhibit of powder; from Hazardville,
Conn.

Heilscher, Theo. (through C. C. Cussick). Collection of minerals and
rocks; from Texas.

Hemphill, Henry. Specimens of land and fresh-water shells; from
Minnesota. .

Henshall, J. A. Specimen of alcoholic fishes; from Florida.

Hercules Wind-Engine Company. Model of wind-engine, for raising water.

Hering, C. J. Collection of alcoholic specimens of reptiles, shells, and
insects; pottery, blue macaw; hammock made from fibers of the Yta
plam; and one living Jguwana tuberculata; three boxes of Coleoptera, °
dried; from Surinam.

Herndon, Thomas. H. Specimen of rattlesnake (Crotalus adamanteus) ;
from Leesburg, Fla.

Herran, Thomas. Eight specimens of pottery and stone relics from In-
dian graves in United States of Colombia, South America.

Herrera, Alfonso. Collection of alcoholic fishes and reptiles ; from Mex-
ico. .

Herrick, C. Specimens of Indian relics and cray-fish; from near Flor-
ence, Ala.

Hersey, J. Clarence. Three specimens of shrews; from Colorado.

Hessel, Dr. Rudolph. Fresh specimen of lizard (Lacerta viridis); from
Germany.

Heyman, S. Box of rocks; from Tennessee.

Historical and Scientific Society, Winnipeg. Tank of alcoholic fishes;
from Manitoba.

Hobart, Aaron K. Model of herring smoking and packing house; from
Maine. (Purchased.)

Hodge, B. B. Specimen of brook trout (Salvelinus fontinalis) ; from New
Hampshire.

Holabird, S. B. Pieces of iron taken from the stern bearings of U.S.8.
‘¢ Ordnance.”

Holcomb, C. W. Package of ferruginous clay.

Holt, Hiram, & Co. Series of tools, corn-cutters, ete.

Hooper, C. W. Specimens of clay and sandstone; from Alabama.

Horan, Henry. Salted specimen of fish (Selene argentea).

Houck, Hon. L. C. Specimen of galena; from Tennessee.

Howe, Rev. S. S. Specimens of Indian relics; from Iowa.

Howell, D. Y. Six bottles of embryonic fishes (Stizostedium vitreum) ;
from Lake Erie.

Hubbard, George A. ‘Transverse section of cherry tree 14 by 10 inches,
showing rate of growth.
REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 245

Hubbs, A. Can of alcoholic fish (Hnneacanthus sp.); from Missouri.

Hudson, George. A. Kight specimens of shad (Clupea sapidissima); from
Cedar Keys, Fla.

Hudson, William H. Twelve botanical specimens and two specimens of
lizard (Crotaphytus collaris); from 'Pexas.

Hudson, Wiliam H. Specimen of gypsum (sulphate of lime); from
Colorado.

Hughes, fF. M. Box of Indian and mound relics; from Ohio.

Humbert, Dr. Fred. Small box of insects ; from Illinois.

Hungerford, Dr. One box of shells; from China.

Hunter, B. W. Specimen of iron carbonate; from Maryland. Also lock
from door of the State-house at Richmond, Va. (Used from 1861—65.)

Hunter, Thomas G. Specimen of mineral; from California.

Hussey, Wells G Co. A large exhibit of manufactured steel, bar and
shape.

Hutchins, J. H. Section of vine showing asserted hybrid growth of
the grapevine with the pecan tree; from Texas.

Hyams, C. W. One box of shells; from South Carolina.

Inman, Samuel W. (treasurer International Cotton Exposition. Two large
boxes of foreign cottons exhibited at the Atlanta Exposition, 1881.
Iron Clad Paint Company, Cleveland, Ohio. An exhibit af crude, lump,

and manufactured paint.

Irving, Thomas J. Four specimens of lobsters (Homarus americanus)
of a very young stage; from Massachusetts.

Ivanhoe Paper Company. An exhibit of paper and its manufacture.

Jackson, Charles A. Building model, scale $ inch to the foot, of men-
haden carryaway boat; from Long Island, N. Y.

Jackson, Capt. John D. Specimen of chloride of silver ore, weight ten
pounds, value $100. One specimen of jasper; chlorobromide of silver,
two specimens.

Jamaica Institute, Public Museum of (through James John Bowery). Alco-
holic collection of fishes (one hundred and eighty-three specimens),
forty species; from Jamaica.

Johns, H. W. Collection illustrating the uses of asbestos, with various
samples.

Johnson, S. M. Four fresh lobsters from the coast of Maine, said to be
14 years old.

Johnston, Walter. Skin of duck (Dendrocygna fulva); from California.

Jones, Dr. Edward S. Living specimen of striated marmoset (Jacchus
vulgaris).

Jones, Dr. William H., U. S. N. Three boxes of birds’ skins, minerals,
rocks, shells, ete., also one tank alcoholic fishes and invertebrates;
from Alaska.

Jones, James F. Specimens of cotton seed, plant, and blooms; from
Georgia.

Jouett, Mrs. J. E. Specimens of fossil bones and teeth; from bed of
246 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM.

Beaufort River. Also alcoholic squid (Loligosp.); from off Beaufort,
SO;

Jordan, Prof. D. 8. Alcoholic invertebrates; from Italy and Mexico.
Six tanks alcoholic fishes, invertebrates, and reptiles; from Mexico
and Texas.

Jouy, P.L. Five boxes of natural history specimens (consisting in part
of one hundred and thirteen birds’ skins and one tank alcoholic
fishes); from Japan.

Julien, Dr. Alexis A. Dried skin of iguana (Iguana tuberculata); from
Gulf of Mexico.

Kane, D. Specimen of limonite; from New York.

Kane, Dr. John J., U. S. A. Specimen of ore for report.

Karr, W. W. Specimen of caterpillar (Hacles imperialis); from Wash-
ington, D. C.

Keith, M.C. Large collection of clay vessels, and fragments of same;
statues, stone pestles, rubbing stones, metates, and fragments ; from
Costa Rica.

Kelleher, Daniel. WUarge Brand lance, hand-lance bomb Kelleher patent,

Kentworthy, C.J. Silver button; taken from mound in Southern Florida.

Kerr, W. C. Twenty crates of building stones; from North Carolina.
(Purchased.)

Kew, England, Royal Gardens. Seeds of Cinchona ledgerina.

Kidwell, L. F. Three specimens of minerals; from Texas.

Kellogg, Dr. D. S. One box of arrow-heads and fragments of pottery ;
from New York.

Kimball, W. S., @ Co. Collective exhibit of tobacco, fine cut, cigarettes,
etc.

King, Samuel LI. Specimens of limestone and dolomite; from Ten- .
nessee.

King, J. W. Jaw, with teeth, of fresh-water drum (Haploidonotus grun-
niens).

Kite, W. A. One box of Indian relics; from Tennessee.

Kite, Dr. J. Alban. One box alcoholic eggs of shad (Clupea sapidissima) ;
from Quantico, Va.

Knickerbocker Ice Company, Philadelphia, Pa. Wagon and toolsused in .
cutting and handling ice.

Knorr, Rudolph. Specimen of young whippoorwill; from Washington,
Dil.

Knowles, Thomas, & Co. Sixteen specimens of whaling apparatus. (Pres-
ent.) One whaling-gun, one walrus tusk.

. Knowles, George. Specimen of ear-bone of finback whale; banjo made
by negro whaleman on shipboard.

Kobbe, Maj. William A., U. S. A. Two specimens of birds’ eggs (Cardi-
nalis virginiana, Molothrus ater); from Alabama.

Kobelt, Dr. W. Forty-five species of new and rare land shells; from
Europe.
REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. ZAG

Krider, John. Skin of white owl.

Kumblaunn, Alex. Complete set of steel files; from Philadelphia.

Kummerfeld, 5 Ay Specimen of arrow-head; from Iowa.

Tadd, H. T. Fragments of Indian pottery; from Alabama.

Lancroft, C. E. and H. 8S. One box of salts of nickel.

Langdon, S. J. Small piece of Indian pottery ; from the lava beds, Lit-
tle Wood River, Idaho.

Larco, A. Box of alcoholic fishes (Sebastodes umbrosus, S. rubricinctus,
Citharichthys, Liocottus hirundo, Annarhichthys ocellatus, Paralichthys,
Liolepis), ete.; from California.

Lawrence & Co. Highteen specimens of whaling apparatus; from Mas-
sachusetts.

Lawrence, George N. Two boxes of birds’ skins, eggs, and mounted
specimens.

Lawson, Capt. Charles, Schooner Herman Babson. Specimen of fish-hook
cut from mouth of a halibut on coast of Greenland, summer of 1882,
similar to those used by fishermen on coast of Northern Europe.

Lea, Dr. Isaac. FVitty-three boxes of shells, one box of minerals, one
box marine invertebrates; from Chester County, Pennsylvania.

Lea, J. S. One specimen of mineral; from New Mexico.

Le Baron, J. Francis. Three specimens of shells; from mound in
Florida.

Le Conte, Jos. Eleven specimens of minerals; from California.

Tee, W. F. ‘Twenty-three specimens of agates; samples of natural,
colored, and white cottons: four sketches of ruins; also one box (two
specimens) of pottery, stone carvings, and implements.

Leonard & Hilis. Collection of oils and vaseline.

Lewis, William. Two harpoon-guns.

Lewis, F. L. One stone relic and fossil mollusk; from West Virginia.

Lewis, James F. One box of living rattlesnakes and larvaof green worm
(Cithironia regalis); from West Virginia,

Lindsley, Dr. J. M. Four specimens of Indian pottery; from Missis-
sippi.

Linnean Society (through William Macleay, Sydney, Australia). One
skeleton of dugong, forty-three birds’ skins, and one keg of alcoholic
fishes (two hundred and seven specimens); from Australia.

Lipsey, W. B. Specimen of Japanese persimmon raised at Archer, Fla

Little Rock and Fort Smith Railroad Company. Collection of rocks and
ores ; from Arkansas.

Logan, Hon. John A. Three specimens of minerals from Illinois.

Lord, H. & G. W. Ninety-five samples of white, tanned, and tarred
netting. -

Lothrop, L. D. <A collection of fishing-tackle used by the Gloucester
fishermen on Grand Banks.

Lougheed, 8S. D. Specimens of shale; from Washington Territory.
248 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM.

Love, William B. Nine specimens of gold quartz; from Culpeper
County, Virginia.

Ludworth, George B. Two alcoholic specimens of snakes (Tropidoclonium
kirtlandii); from Michigan.

Tugger, Otto. Specimen of bird’s nest (Cpyselus cayennensis); from
Demerara, West Indies.

Tiitken, Dr. Chr. One alcoholic specimen of Trachypterus arcticus ; from
Iceland. Also collection of European annelids, comprising eighty-
five specimens in alcohol.

Luttrell, Chester. One box of stone relics; from Alabama.

Lyford, Dr. E. H. Specimen of sea-mouse (Aphrodita aculeata); taken
from lobster pot at Vinalhaven, Me.

Mackey & Pindar. Eight specimens of whaling apparatus; from Massa-
chusetts.

Mackae, Donald. Specimens of siren and Necturus punctatus ; from
North Carolina.

Macy, Joseph B. Seven specimens of whaling apparatus used by Nan-
tucket whalemen.

Macy, Zaccheus. One whale-ship cooper’s set. (Old.)

Mandeville, W. Specimen of sulphur oxide of manganese; from Penn-
sylvania.

Mann, B. Pickman. Living specimen of horned frog (Phrynosoma cor-
nutum).

Mapes, John C. Six specimens of minerals; from New York.

Marley, To Cee. Three specimens of stone implements; from Tennessee.

Marsh, Prof. O. C. . Cast of Pterodactyle, with wing membranes at-
tached.

Martin & Co. Collective exhibit of lampblack and its manufacture.

Martin, Capt. S. I. Collection of cod and haddock trawls, lobster pots,
herring-nets, ete. (Purchased.)

Mason & Hamlin, New York. Cabinet organ complete, with models
showing interior workings of pianos and organs.

Mason, H. B. Specimen of gun-harpoon, and harpoon with explosive
head.

Mason, Prof. Otis T. Fragments of pottery and piece of white jasper;
from Cahokia mound, Illinois.

Mather, Fred. One bottle of living worms; from New York.

Maw & Co., England. Large and collective exhibit of ornamental tiles;
from Centennial Exhibition at Philadelphia, Pa., 1876.

Maxey, Hon. S. B. Specimens of ores and minerals and mineral water ;
from Texas.

Maxwell, John. Specimen of building stone; from Pennsylvania.

Maydole, D., @ Co. Full series of light and nickel-plated hammers.

McAdams, Hon. William. One tank alcoholic fishes ; from Illinois.

McBath, Edgar. Mounted specimen of squirrel (Sciurus carolineensis).

McCrory, J. A. Package of hemp fiber; from Florida.
REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 249

McCullough, John. Twenty-four specimens of whale-boat fittings.

McDermott & Co. Hight boxes of building stones; from Ohio.

MeDonald, Field & Co., Aberdeen, Scotland. Six specimens of building
stones ; from Scotland.

McDonald, LH. G. Three specimens of pyrite in slate; from West Vir-
ginia.

McDonald, F. S. One specimen of limonite and two specimens of pyrite ;
from Virginia.

McDonald, Col. M., U. S. F. C. Alcoholic specimens of shad (Clupea
sapidissima), carp (Cyprinus carpio) ; from Potomac River. Tylosurus
longirostris, Achirus lineatus Lepomis gibbosus, Carassius auratus, Fund-
ulus diaphanus, also shells; from Cherrystone, Va. Specimens of
fishes taken from top of McDonald fishway, Fredericksburg, Va.
(Roccus lineatus, Catostomus commersonti, Amiurus catus, and Lepomis
pallidus).

McDougal, A. G. Specimen of Indian pottery ; from Arkansas.

McDuffin, James B. Specimen of glass snake (Opheosaurus ventralis) ;
from Georgia.

McKay, C. LZ. Highteen boxes of general natural history specimens
and ethnologica ; from Alaska.

McKesson & Robbins, New York. Three boxes of commercial sponges ;
from Florida.

McKinney, George. H. Specimen of beetle; from Kentucky.

McLain, G. M. Builder’s model of fishing schooner, 4 inch to the foot;
from Massachusetts.

McLean, John J. Four boxes of ethnologica, minerals, one bale snow-
shoes, specimens of basket-ware, etc.; from Alaska.

McLean, J. P. One box of Indian relics ; from Ohio.

MeMannen, Dr. C. T. One bird-skin (Ampelis cedrorum); from Florida.

McNeil G Archer. Large exhibit of iron, gas, and water pipe.

Meehan, Thomas. Two hundred and sixty bottles of seeds of plants and
flowers. (Purchased.)

Meigs, M. C. One skull of Indian, skull of antelope (Antilocapra ameri-
cana), two skulls of beaver (Castor fiber); from lowa. Specimen of
building stone; from Minnesota. Cinnabar; from Fort McKavett,
Texas.

Meinung, Alex. C. One specimen of stone, natural formation; from
North Carolina.

Melzer, James P. Small collection of insects taken from birds ; from
New Hampshire.

Mercer, Rk. W. Seven boxes of minerals, Indian relics; from Ohio,
Tennessee, and Georgia.

Merchant, C. B. Three Brand’s bomb-lances.

Merchant, George. Six boxes fishing apparatus.

Merriam, Dr. C. Hart. Box of birds’ skins and fresh specimen of sal-
mon (Salmo salar var. sebago); from New York.
250 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM.

Merrill, George P. Eleven specimens of rocks; from Maine. Also one
‘‘ planchette.”

Merrill, W. A. Living specimen soft-shell turtle (Aspidonectes spini-
Jer); from Iowa.

Metcalf, Charles. One box of quail eggs.

Mikell, J. Jenkins. Specimen of cotton plant and three bags of cotton
seed; from Edisto Island, South Carolina.

Miklin, Dr. J. B. Three specimens of Indian relics; from Tennessee.

Miles Brothers & Co. Collective exhibit of bristles, feathers, camel,
and badger hairs used in the manufacture of brushes.

Miller, J. H. Small package of flowers ; from Texas.

Mills, Clark. Metallic cast of section of the throat of 60-foot whale.

Mills, Henry. ‘Two boxes fresh-water sponges; from Niagara River.

Minor, F. O. Specimen of insect; from Louisiana.

Minton, Hollis & Co., Stoke-upon-Trent, England (through Sharpless &
Watts, Philadelphia, Pa.). An exhaustive collection of usetul and
ornamental tiles. :

Mitchell, Capt. J. C. One tank alcoholic fishes, containing twenty-seven
species ; from southern coast of United States.

Mitchell, Dr. W. Four specimens of stone relics ; from Tennessee.

Money, Hon. H. D. Specimen of pyrite; from Mississippi.

Moore, George H. H. Specimen of fresh-water drum (Haploidonotus
grunniens) ; from Colorado River, Texas.

Morehead & Co. Sheet of rolled iron, 15 by 7 feet, 2 inch thick.

Morgan Hon. J. T. Box of clay and sand; from Missouri.

Moulton, J. H. Head and tusks of walrus (Rosmarus); two skeletons of
fur seal (Callorhinus ursinus) ; from Alaska.

Miicke, Dr. Franz. Specimen of arrow-head ; from near Sandford Lake,
Florida.

Myrick, A. M. Wooden mortar and pestle, formerly carried on whale-
ship.

Neal, Dr. James C. Two specimens of black snake (Bascanium constric-
tor); from Florida.

Needham, G. F. Specimen of bird-skin (Cyanocitta cristata), living king
snake (Ophibolus getulus); from Maryland.

Nehring, Prof. A. L. Small box of fossil mammals (Myodes torquatus,
Lagomys hyperboreus) ; from Germany.

Nelson, HE. W. Specimen of deer antlers; from Alaska.

Nelson, Wolfred. Alcoholic specimen of coral snake; from Panama.

Nery, E. R. Skin of eel (Anguilla rostrata); from Delaware.

New Bedford Cordage Company. Seven samples of cordage.

Newcomb, kh. L., U.S. N. Twosmall packages mosses, seven specimens
birds’ skins (thodostethia rosea, Budytes flavus, Plectrophanes nivalis,
Centrophanes lapponicus, Phalaropus fulicarius); from Henrietta Isl-
and, Arctic Ocean.

Newton & Oo. Exhibit of fire-clay, and articles made from same.
'

REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. PAS) §

Nichols, J. R. Specimen of ‘ hell-fire rock” (dolomite); from Utah.

Nickerson, Mrs. M.J. Scrimshawed porpoise jaw; piece of right-whale’s
bonnet, with barnacles attached.

Nissley, Jacob R. Box of Indian relics; from Ohio.

Norris, B. M. Ceremonial weapon; from Ohio.

Norris, Col. P. W. Specimen of jasper; from Ruby Valley, Montana.

Norton, John W. One whale-ship log-book.

Nutting C. C. Three boxes of birds’ skins, and stone images and pot-
tery; from Central America. Specimen of sparrow (Passer domesti-
Cus.)

Nye, jr., Willard. Boxof Indian relics; from Martha’s Vineyard. One
bottle alcoholic specimens of eels (Anguilla rostrata) ; from New Bed-
ford, Mass.

Nye, W. H. Exhibit of watch and machine oils; from Massachusetts.

Oregon, State of. Specimens of stone, iron, and coal; from Centennial
Exhibition, Philadelphia, Pa., 1876.

Oriental Powder Company. An exhibit showing powder and the mate-
rials used in its manufacture.

Orton, Prof. Edward. Specimen of limestone; from Kelly’s Island,
Ohio.

‘Osborne, Charles B. Bow and arrow; from South Sea.

Osborne, James C. Specimen of whale harpoon.

Osborn, Philip (through Mary Fielder). One box of fossils from Ohio.
‘Ruler made of piece of plank, and:horseshoe made from bolt of the
brig ‘Niagara,’ that caused the whole British fleet to surrender to
Commodore Perry, September 10, 1813.”

Ozer, J. D. Specimens of cotton plant, and samples of “ ozier silk
cotton”; from Mississippi.

_ Ozier, T. L. Two specimens of kaolin; from Pennsylvania.

Packer, Hon. R Asa (through John B. Wiggins). Specimen of unfinished
iron implement; from Pennsylvania.

Paddock, Thomas B. Cooper’s marking iron, used in 1775.

Page, E. W., & Sons. Exhibit of oars, sweeps, and sculls.

Palmer, Alex. S. Specimen of fresh fish (Selene argentea); from Con-
necticut.

Palmer, Dr. Edward. Specimens of materia medica, ethnology, tobacco
(leaf and twist); from Tennessee. Plants; from Indiana. Ladle or
spoon made of hickory wood ; from Illinois.

Palmer, J. S. Specimens of marble; from Virginia.

Palmer, J. W. Specimen of a very large oyster; from Maryland.

Palmer, William. Specimen of Bewick’s wren (Thryomanes bewicki), in
flesh, from Virginia. Also fresh specimen of Carpiodes ; from Poto-
mac River.

Park, Davis, & Co. Specimens of materia medica.

Parkhurst, A. I. Specimens of birds; from California.

Parr, J. L. Specimen of white limestone fossils; from Rio Grande
252 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM.

River, Pecos County, Texas, 296 feet above the level of the present
river.

Parsons, Capt. W. B, (through A. Howard Clark). Specimens of old
crockery, an old stone killick, in use by fishermen for more than fifty
years, and one clam-chopper, used for chopping mackerel bait; from
Massachusetts.

Patterson, Samuel. Specimens of stones; from Utah.

Pauli, J. A. Samples of bark; from United States of Colombia, South
America.

Peakes, Thomas M. One whale-ship log-book.

Peck & Synder. Collection of base-ball supplies, cricket, archery, and
skates ; from New York.

Pierce, Milton P. Specimen of stag-beetle; from New Jersey.

Pelican & Davis. Specimen of silver ore, 24 tons weight; from Colo-
rado.

Pencoyd Iron Works. Six frames, eight bars; and one bundle of angle-
iron, used in building.

Pennsylvania Tack Works. Uarge exhibit illustrating four hundred varie-
ties of brass and copper tacks, also specimens of white metal, and
iron and steel from which they are made.

Phelps, Albert J. Specimens of pottery, Indian and bone implements ;
from Maine.

Philbrick, EZ. E. Specimen of magnesium iron silicate; from Florida.

Phillips, Barnett. Pack of Chinese playing cards, and Chinese dagger-
fan; from China.

Phillips, Henry. Specimen of antimony oxide, seuarmontite; from East
Canada.

Phillips, William, & Son. Whaling-gun, muzzle-loader, brass stock.

Pierce, Eben. Five patterns of whaling-guns. (Purchased.)

Piper, John D. Specimens of lobster-pots, and one dip-net; from Maine.

Piper, S. E. Specimen of porphyrytie granite rock; from Maine.

Piper, Miss Tillie. Alcoholic specimen of bat; from Smithsonian build-
ing.

Polk, W.L. Alcoholic specimen of fish (young Carpiodes); from Mis-
sissippl.

Porter, FE. H. Specimens of Indian relies; from Kentucky.

Powell, George. Specimens of fossil ferns ; from Pennsylvania.

Powell, Robert H. Exhibit of coal, ete.; from Pennsylvania.

Pratt, Capt. R. H. Indian saddle and trappings.

Price, H. B. Specimens of ores; from New Mexico.

Pride, H. A. Specimens from the Utica slate found in New York.

Prince Manufacturing Company. Exhibit of metallic and fire-proof paint.

Prindle, Edwin. Two alcoholic specimens of reptiles (Plethodon cinereus,
P. erythronotus) ; from Potomac River, north of Georgetown.

Proctor, J. M. Specimen of minerals; from Tennessee.

Pumpelly, R. Seven boxes of minerals (census collection of iron ores).
REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 253

Ramsay, Capt. T. M., U. S. N. Skin of fox; from Spitzbergen. Speci-
mens of birds and nine packages and ten bottles of dredgings; from
Greenland.

Ranger, Gustave. Specimens of rock salt; from Petite Anse Island,
Louisiana.

Rathbun, Mrs. P. Game of “ Planchette.”

Rathbun, Richard. Photographs of fishes (Sudis gigas, Malthe, Epinephe-
lus, and Trisotropis).

Rau, Dr. Charles. Specimen of turquoise; from turquoise mine, New
Mexico; and modern pipe made by the Catawba Indians of North
Carolina.

Rauchfuss, jr., C. F. Specimens of fossil shells, ete.; from Illinois.

Reed, George, paymaster, U. S. N. (through Col. M. McDonald). Speci-
mens of black bass (Micropterus dolomicu and M. salmoides) ; from
Potomac River, near Great Falls.

Rteedman, Capt. F. M. (through E. C. Blackford). Specimen of bluefish
hooks, with piano-wire gaugings, used by New York and Southern
New England fishermen.

Remington, H., & Sons, New York. Perfected type-writer, with head and
case.

Rhees, Wiliam J. Specimens of bats; from Washington, D.C.  Liv-
ing specimen of lizard (Sceloporus undulatus) ; from Mount Pleasant,
Din:

Rhode Island Horseshoe Company. Exhibit of horseshoes ; from Rhode
Island.

Rice, Clinton. Specimen of concretion ; from New Mexico.

Rice, William T. Large collection of marble and granite building
stones; from Italy. (Purchased.)

Richmond, Charles. Specimens of common birds’ eggs; from Washing-
ton, D. C.

Richards, Rev. J. Havens. Specimen of fossil shells ; from Maryland.

Rich, James W. Specimens of fresh fish (Lopholatilus chameleonticeps).

Ridgway, Robert. Specimens of skin and nest of Dendreca auduboni ;
from California. Skins of birds; from Lower California. Specimen of
Passer domesticus, nest and eggs of Cardinalis virginiana, alcoholic spe-
cimens of natural history, eggs of snapping tortoise (Chelydra serpen-
tina), skin of martin and mole (Putorius vison, Scalops argentatus), liv-
ing snake (Ophibolus doliatus), and salamanders (Amblystoma opacum,
Amblystoma microstomum, and Diemyctylus miniatus viridescens), and
one arrow-head; from Indiana.

Rio de Janeiro National Museum. Three boxes corals; from Brazil.

Rivett, Carnac I. H. (through Dr. E. R. Meyer). Two celts, two terra-
cotta spindles and bat, and three Buddhist coins ; from India.

Roach, C. Sample of earth paint (iron ochre) ; from Ohio.

Robeson, Hon. George M. Specimen of ‘ snowy owl.”

Rtobirts, John N. Specimen of Indian relics; from Louisiana.
254 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM.

Roberts, William. Specimen of harpoon-gun.

Robinson, Geldsborough. Samples of wood alcohol and pure spirits;
from Kentucky.

Robinson, G. 8S. Specimen of ear-bone of sperm-whale calf.

Robinson, General James S. Specimens of copper and stone implements;
from a mound in Ohio.

Rockwell, Col. A. F. Specimen, in flesh, of Baltimore oriole.

Rockel, William, and M. Tandy. Specimens of Indian relies; from Illi-
nois.

Rogan, James W. Specimen of insect; from Tennessee.

Rogers, Crueger & Munford. Specimen of asbestos; from Virginia.

Rogers, D. M. (through Hon. J. C. Clements). Specimen of galena; from
Tennessee.

Rogers, John, New York. Collection of statuary.

Roosevelt, Theodore. Collection of mammals, reptiles, and birds’ skins.

Roquet, Father (through Maj. J. W. Powell). Bones from alligator-gar
(LAtholepis spatula); from Louisiana.

Rosecrans, General W.S. Specimens of rocks and ores; from Oregon and
San José mine, Copala Sinaloa.

Rowell, James T. (through Lieut. OC. D. Sigsbee, U. 8S. N.). Specimen of lo-
cust which came on board U.S. 5S. “ Lightning,” in latitude 12° north,
longitude 46° west.

Rowland, W. and Henry. Exhibit of steel used in the construction of
carriage and car springs.

Ruby, Charles. Skin and skull of puma, alcoholic specimens of rep-
tiles, and collection of minerals; from Wyoming.

Runyan, J. C. Specimen of minerals and coal; from Washington Ter-
ritory.

Rusby, Henry H. Specimens of prehistoric mining tools; and dried
piants; from Arizona.

Russell, Mr. Ball from alkaline lagoon at the south end of Pyramid
Lake, Nevada.

Russell, Birdsale & Ward. Series of objects made of iron used in the
manufacture of carriages.

Russell, D. E. Specimens of minerals; from Texas.

Ryder, John A. Alcoholic specimens of fishes and eggs (Clupea ver-
nalis, Petromyzon marinus, Clupea sapidissima, Roccus saxatilis, and
Perca americana),

Sage, Dean. Specimen of lamprey eel (Petromyzon marinus, juv.), taken
from salmon weighing 145 pounds.

Sampson, F. A. Small box of fossils; from Texas.

Sanborn, Captain. Small specimen of asbestos cloth.

Sandusky Tool Company. Collection of tools used by hand in the
wood-working industry.

Sanford, Mrs. F.C. Specimen of powder-horn used in 1757.

Sankey, R. A. Specimen of pryolusite; from Colorado.
REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 255

Sawyer, John A. Specimens of whaling apparatus. (Purchased.)

Sayres, J. D. Two specimens of mineral; from Texas.

Schanno, Joseph. Two leaves with larve of insects; from Washington
Territory.

Schieffelin, W. H., & Co., New York. Large and collective exhibit of
American and foreign drugs.

Schenck, Dr. J. Two living tortoises (Chrysemys marginata); from Ili-
nois.

Schonborn, Henry F. Egg containing embryo of Strix nebulosa, and
double duck’s egg; from Washington, D. C.

Schuermann, C. W. Living specimen of snake (Coluber obsoletus) and
specimen of duck (Catrina moschata); from Virginia.

Sears, Henry H. Specimen of Aphrodita aculeata; from Massachusetts.

Seidell, C. Two specimens of building stones, from Washington Terri-
tory.

Seiple, Dr. W. G. M. Specimen of limonite or brown hematite; from
Pennsylvania.

Sennet, George. B. Three specimens of possum (Didelphys virginiana) ;
from Texas.

Shehan, Albert. One double hen’s egg, 64 by 94 inches in circumference.

Shannon, J. B., G Co. Collective exhibit illustrating artistic reproduc-
tion and original designs of furniture, and builders’ hardware manu-
factured from nickel, brass, etc.

Sharp, T. C. Box of oysters in shell; from Ocean View, N. J.

Shepard. EH. HE. Three specimens of fresh-water shells; from White
Water River, Indiana.

Skockley, W. H. Four specimens of fossil shells; from Nevada.

Shoemaker, George. Forty-three specimens of alcoholic reptiles, eighty-
three specimens of birds’ skins, seventeen bottles alcoholic insects,
two bottles of shells; from District of Columbia, Maryland, and Vir-
ginia.

Short, E.G. Piece of planking from war vessel ‘“ Oneida,” sunk in the
Saint Lawrence in 1812.

Shufeldt, Dr. R. W. Collection of about eight hundred birds’ skins,
eleven specimens of birds’ eggs; from Tongue River. Skin of squirrel
(Sciurus carolinensis), head of antelope (Antilocapra americana); from
Sweet Water Valley, Wyoming. One box alcoholic specimens of
natural history; from Louisiana.

Sibley, W. H. Specimen of silicious chalk; from Texas.

Slack, John H. Specimen of fish (Hupomotis aureus); from New York.

Small, Edgar A. Stuffed specimen of green heron (Butorides virescens) ;
from Maryland.

Small, I. A. Gun-harpoon; from Massachusetts.

Smith, D.C. Bottle of water from artesian well at Pekin, Ill.

Smith, Everett. Specimen of bird’s skin (Buteo borealis); from Maine.

Smith, Edward, & Co. Collection of fine varnishes.
256 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM.

Smith, #. H. Three specimens of native copper; from ‘‘ Longfellow cop-
per mine,” Arizona.

Smith, George H. Two Smith’s gun-harpoons, one cutting spade.

Smith, Seth. Darting-gun and harpoons, old-style lance with wooden
head, dog-fish gear, hooks, chain, and one mackerel gaff; from Massa-
chusetts.

Sneed, J. R. Specimen of galena in limestone; from Tennessee.

Snow, A. L. Specimen of mineral; from Tennessee.

Snow, Loren, & Sons. Specimens of whale-boat fittings. (Purchased.)

Sommerfield, L. Specimen of ruby-throated humming-bird (Trochylus
colubris).

South Side Club. Living specimen of brook trout (Salvelinus Jontinalis) ;
from Long Island.

Spinner, General F. HE. One box of marine shells; from Florida.

Spray, S.J. Four specimens minerals; from Colorado.

Stabler, James P. Specimen of black snake (Bascanion constrictor) ;
from Maryland.

Stallman, John. One block building stone; from Massachusetts.

Stanhorn, Pierson & Co. Wooden wheels for light buggies and wagons.

Starr, W. S. Specimen of crystal of amethystine quartz; from South
Carolina.

Stassey, Frederick (through Jaines Harrington). Stone image; from Tam-
pico, Mexico.

Stearns, Robert E. C. Thirty-five boxes of shells, two boxes of sample
woods, alcoholic specimens of big clam (Glycimeris), one box of Indian
relics, and specimen of Pennatula; from Pacific coast of United States.

Stearns, Silas. Large collection of alcoholic and fresh fishes, consisting
in part of Phycis earlii, Dactylopterus, Stenotomus caprinus, Coryphena
equestris, Opisthognathus, Tylosurus, Rhinobatus, Narcine brasilensis,
Hemirhombus, Gobioid, Antennarius, Batrachus tau, Caulolatilus mi-
crops, Trisotropis stomias, Seriola, ete., from Florida.

Stearns, Winnifred A. Two boxes alcoholic, one barrel of salted, speci-
mens of fishes and vertebrates; from coast of Labrador.

Steenstrup, Professor. Three jars Cephalopods ; from Denmark.

Steere, Prof. J. B. Sixty-six specimens (thirty-three species) of shells;
from Philippine Islands.

Steinway & Sons. One grand upright piano, constructed to show interior
workings.

Stejneger, Dr. Leonard. Three skins of swans, type-specimen of Peri-
soreus canadensis nigricapillus, from Labrador. Twenty large boxes
of birds’ skins, bones of whales and sea-cows (Rhytina); from vicin-
ity of the Commander Islands, Kamtschatka.

Stephens, Hon. Alex. H. Specimens of malachite and melachonite; from
Arizona.

Stephens, I. A. Specimens of mineral; from Texas.
REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 257 -

Stevens, Mrs. HE. L. Young specimen of alligator (Alligator mississippi-
ensis); from Florida.

Stewart & Co. Collective exhibit of various sizes and kinds of wire.

Stilwell, H. M. Tin pump for aerating water in cans for transporting
live fishes.

Stone, Livingston. Collectionof photographs (50) showing United States
Fish Commission hatching station and surroundings at Baird, Shasta
County, California. Also copy letter written with the blood of a pan-
ther.

Stone, T. J. Vertebra of whale; from marl bank on the Patuxent
River.

Story, William H. Eiglit boat models.

Stratton, C. L. Box of stone and shell relics, with specimen of crania ;
from mound in Tennessee.

Stribling, Will. Specimen of shed skin of snake (Pityophis melanoleucus),
specimen of clay, and skull of catfish ; from Ohio.

Stuart, H. J. Five bottles of alcoholic snakes; from Guatemala.

Stuart, Dr. Joseph G. Specimens of wild flowers; from Colorado.

Studer, Jacob H. Bound volume of Studer’s Popular Ornithology, for
Museum library.

Sullivan, Jeremiah. Package of sprouted corn used by Moqui Indians
in their ceremonies.

Swan, Mrs. HE. EL. Small box of minerals; from New York.

Swan, James G. Two boxes of Indian articles and ornaments. (Pur-
chased.) Alcoholic specimen of salmon (Oncorhynchus chouicha) ; from
Washington Territory.

Sweeney, k. O. One alcoholic specimen of fish (Coregonus) ; from Minne-
sota.

Swift, Jeremiah. Flint lance-head taken from a whale in Northern
Pacific.

Swift, Josiah. Collection of whaling apparatus.

Symmes, Francis M. Cast of stone pipe and loan of stone pipe, ‘ baby’s
foot,” specimen of fresh water mussel; from Indiana.

Syracuse Chilled Plow Company. Exhibit of chilled plows and compo-
nent parts.

Laber & Gordon. Specimens of whale boat fittings; broken whale-boat
davit; one try-pot of one hundred and eighty gallons; cracked.

Talbot, D. H. Mounted skin of swallow-tailed kite (Hlanoides forficatus) 5
from Iowa.

Tandy, Al. Specimens of Indian relics; from Iowa and Illinois.

Tate, J. (through Dr. Timothy EL. Wilcox). One pair of mule-deer anuers
(Cervus macrotis); from Idaho Territory.

Taylor, B. F. Specimens of Indian relics; from Maryland.

Taylor, Dr. F. W. Specimen, in flesh, of a golden pheasant (Chryso-
lophus pictus).

Il. Mis. 26——17
258 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM.

Taylor, Martin 8S. Specimens of minerals (galena in limestone); from
Ohio.

Taylor, Prof. William B. Specimen of small pouch made of grasses.

Taylor, WilliamJ. Specimens of fossils; from Florida.

Teague, Samuel J. Specimens of plant bulbs; from Florida.

Tegler, Henry. Specimen of malformed hen’s eggs; from Washington,
Dac.

Teiling, Charles. Specimen of cow-fish (Ostracion quadricorne); from
Georgia.

Tennessee Historical Society. Specimens of stone relics; from Tennessee.
(Loaned.)

Thayer, A. H. Specimens of feathers of an American eider duck
(Somateria mollissima dressert) ; from Massachusetts.

Thompson, Franklin. Model of *‘ Muscongus Bay lobster boat”; from
Maine. (Purchased.)

Thompson, H. H. Specimens of fresh fish (Coregonus artedi), and fresh
salmon (Salmo salar var. sebago); from New York.

Thompson, John H. Specimen of fish-hook made of pearl shell; from Fiji
Islands. Idol and native gourd ornament; from an island southwest
of New Guinea.

Thomson, M. H. Specimens of pottery from graves, and bottle of buf-
falo gnats; from Arkansas.

Thurber, Prof. George. Specimen, in flesh, of cinnamon bear; from
mountains of Western Pennsylvania.

Thurber, H. F.and F. B., & Co. Vxhibit of canned vegetables, samples
of teas, coffees, spices, etc., and fruits.

Todd, Aurelius. Specimens of mammal skins (Spermophilus Beecheyii),
with bones (Sciurus fossor, Tamias Townsendii, Sciurus Douglassti, and
Spermophilus Beecheyii), ete.; from Oregon.

Tovker, William Wallace. Specimens of stone relics, sample of gravel,
amd pierced stone tablet, box of stone relics (loaned); from New York.

Topliff, Ely & Co. Specimens of wood-work used in the manufacture of
buggies; from Ohio.

Jowne, F. H. Pair of iron molds for casting old-fashioned pewter
Spoons.

Townsend, Henry A. Specimens of oysters ; from Long Island.

Tripp, Stephen A. Six specimens of whale-boat fittings; from Massa-
chusetts.

True, F. W. Specimens of seed necklace, models of agricultural imple-
ments, books and fan made from the palm, specimens of basket-work,
and womew’s wearing apparel; from Ceylon. Tank of alcoholic fishes;
from New York, and three Chinese representations of mammals and
reptiles made from colored straw.

Tuft, Richard. Specimen of china tea pot (old English); from Massa-
chusetts.

Turner, J. H. Specimen of insect (Lucanus elaphus); from Texas.
REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 259

Turner, L. M. Specimens of birds’ skins, natural history, and tank of
alcoholic specimens ; from Hudson Bay Territory.

Turner, Otto A. Specimens of building stones; from Llinois.

Turner, Ross. Model of ship “ Il Sultana,” built in Venice between the
years 1850 and 1860. The vessel was lost at the battle of Lissa.

Union Iron Oompany. Collective exhibit of manufactured iron.

United States Stamping Company. Two boxes of stamped tinware.

University of Alabama. One box of Indian relies. (Loaned.)

Upham, E.P. Hight rude stone implements; from District of Columbia.

Upton, George. Collection of manufactured glue.

Vail, Master Stevie. Two living specimens of young alligators; from
Florida.

Vanderburg, Mrs. J. H. Flint spear head; from Fort Ticonderoga, N.Y.

Van Fleet, Dr. M. N. Specimen of stone implement and specimen of
gypsum from which was made the famous *“‘ Cardiff Giant”; from Ne-
braska.

Van Sinderen, Adrian. Section of meteorite.

Vansant, H. H. One box of shell oysters; from Somers Point, N. J.

- Vasey, Dr. George. Specimens of agave paper; from Mexico.

Verrill, Prof. A. E. (for U. S. Fish Commission). Fourteen boxes, one
tank of alcoholic invertebrates ; from coast of New England.

Von Berlepsch, Hans. Collection of one hundred and thirteed European
birds’ skins.

Von Hpps, P. M. One box of concretions; from New York.

Vulcanized Fibre Company. Seven samples of crude and manufactured
vulcanite.

Walke, HE. H. Alcoholic specimen (Amblystoma opacum); from Mary-
land. .

Walker, Hon. R. J. C. Specimens of mincrals.

Walker, S. H. Specimen of mineral; from Maryland.

Walker, S.T. Spevimens of Indian relics and roots of the countie
plant; from Florida.

Wallace, John. Specimen of baboon, in flesh.

Ward, Prof. H. A. Specimens of fossil crabs; from the Isle of Hainan,
Gulf of Tonquin.

Ward, Prof. L. F. Specimens of anthracite coal; from Rhode Island.

Ware, John D. Specimens of a root; from vicinity of Hot Springs, Ark.

Warren & Co. Three specimens of Caulolatilus microps; from Florida.

Washington, Charles H. Specimen of red fox (Vulpes fulvus); from Vir-
ginia.

Washington, D. C.:
Department of Agricultwre. One box of materia medica. (See under

name of Dr. George Vasey.)
Census Office. Four hundred and seven specimens of building stones;
from various States and Territories. See under name of R. Pum-

pelly.
E
260 REPOKT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM.

Washington, D. C.—Continued. .

Geological Survey, J. W. Powell, United States Geologist. Ninety-cight
trays of fossils; from Rocky Mountains. Specimens of building
stones; from Wyoming. Minerals; from Arizona and New Mexico.

General Land Office. Forty-six hand specimens of building stones,
(See under names of C. W. Holcomb, John Wasson, and Special Agent
James Bell.

United States Commission cf Fish and Fisheries, Prof. Spencer F. Baird,
Commissioner. About 360 packages of zoological collections; from
the Atlantic, Pacific, and Gulf Coasts, made by Prof. A. E. Verrill,
Richard Rathbun, David S. Jordan, Charles H. Gilbert, G. Brown
Goode, James E. Benedict, Col. Marshall McDonald, T. B. Fergu-
son, Dr. T. H. Bean, with large number of fishing and whale-boat
fittings, collected by James Temple Brown, Joseph W. Collins, H.
C. Chester, R. Edward Earll,and A. Howard Clark. (See also under
names G. Brown Goode, M. McDonald, James E. Benedict, H. C.
Chester, Jos. W. Collins, A. Howard Clark, Frank N. Clark, Frank
L. Donnelly, George H. H. Moore, John A. Ryder, Livingston Stone,
James G. Swan and Prof. A. E. Verrill. Also collection of several
hundred specimens of Indian stone implemerts and relics made by
the United States Fish Commission; from vicinity of Menemsha
Bight, aud Marthas vineyard, assisted by Willard Nye, jr., of New
Bedford, Mass.

Navy Department. (See under names of Commodore John G. Walker,
Capt. T. M. Ramsey, J. R. Eastman, Rk. L. Newcomb, Dr. J. F.
Bransford, Dr. Thomas C. Craig, D. William H. Jones, Paymaster
George H. Reed, Ensign M. L. Wood, Ernest Wilkinson, Lieut. C. B.
Sigsbee, F. C. Dale.)

State Department. Four boxes of cotton samples; from the Interna-
tional Cotton Exposition at Atlanta, Ga., 1881.

Treasury Department, United States Revenue Marine. (See under
names of Lieutenant Elliott and Capt. J. C. Mitchell.)

War Department, Signal service. One kyak, one bundle and nine
boxes of ethnology. (See also under name of John J. McLean and
I. M. Turner.) .

Surgeon-General’s Office. (See under names of Prs. Jos. N. K. Corson
and Hlliott Coues.)

United States Army. (See under names of Capt. Chas. Bendire, Col.
A. G. Brackett, Col. R. T. Burr, Capt. H. 8. Hawkins, Acting Quar-
master S. B. Holabird, First Sergeant William H. Hudson, Major
William A. Kobbe, General M. C. Meigs, Capt. R. H. Pratt, Col. A.
F. Rockwell, Drs. R. W. Shufeldt, and Henry C. Yarrow, aud Timo-
thy FE. Wilcox, Lieut. C. A. Williams.

Wasson, John. Specimens of minerals; from Arizona.
Watkins, J. M. Two dozen “ original” Powhatan clay pipes; from Vir-
ginia.
REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 261

Watts, H. L. Model of reach boat; from Maine. (Purchased.)

Weaks, P. B. Specimen of tertiary lignite taken from stump 30 feet
below surface; from Louisiana.

Weaver, George B., & Co. Specimens of fresh fish (A mia calva, Lota macu-
losa); from New York.

Webb, W. H. Seven models of ships; from New York.

Webster, W. W. Six papier-maché lay figures and one papier-maché
head.

Weems, Rev. T. D. Specimens of Indian implements; from Llinois.

Weidman, A., & Co. (through Thomas Donaldson). Two boxes of masks.

Wells, J. G. Specimen of insect; from Grenada, West Indies.

Wesleyan University. Five specimens of musical instruments, cornet,
ophicleide, trombone, and clarionet. ‘ Marimba;” from Venezuela.

Wharton, Joseph. Specimen of cooking vessel made from rolled nickel
on iron; manufactured in Germany. Samples of pure nickel rolled in
sheets and oniron; from Pennsylvania. Also an exhibit of nickel ore
and products; from New Jersey.

Wheeler, Charles Le Roy. Collection of shells; from New Jersey.

Whipple, S. C. Specimens of biotite granite and quartz porphyry; from
Colorado.

White, Dr. C. A. Box of land shells; from Indiana. Specimens of chalk;
from Dakota. Fossil plants; from Colorado.

Whittington, G. N. Specimen of ore.

Whitman, J. L. Product of artificial planting of Stizostedium vitreum
var. Salmoneum; from Kansas.

Whitall, Tatum & Co. Two barrels, six hogsheads, and nine boxes, sam-
ples of glass bottles, etc.; also apparatus used in making.

Wiggins, John B. Specimens of clay, fossils, stone pestle, slag, iron
pipe or wrench, and living specimen of fox ( Vulpes fulvus); from New
York. Soapstone cup and tomahawk; from Virginia.

Wilcox, Crittenden & Co. Box of fishing apparatus ; from Connecticut.

Wilcox, Joseph. Specimens of stone relics and implement; from Flor-
ida.

Wilcox, Dr. Timothy E., U. S. A. Two pairs of antlers, alcoholic mam-
mals (Cervus macrotis, Alces americanus, Thomomys talpotdes), and two
mice, piece of stone pestle and fossil bone, bag of kinnikinik made
by the Cheyenne Indians, specimen of butterflies (Papilio turnus, Dan-
dus archippus), pair of antelope prongs (Antilocapra americana),
specimen of Trochilus alexandri, Juv.; from Idaho. One of skin of
Ampelis garrulus ; from Nevada.

Wilcox, W. A. Specimen of fish basket, two currycombs for cleaning
fish, used by New England fish dealers. One fresh specimen of cusk
(Brosmius brosme), and three negatives of warehouses and wharfs at
Boston; from Massachusetts.

Wild, George H. Specimens of alcoholic striped bass (Roccus saxatilis) ;
from the headwaters of North Shrewsbury River, New Jersey.
262 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM.

Wilder, Miss Mary. Specimen of mineral; from Tennessee.

Wilkinson, Ernest, U. S. N. Specimens of rocks, lava, ete., and alco
holic specimens of star-fishes, sea-urchins, crustaceans, and mollusks;
from Alaska and Greenland. : .

Wilkins, lirs. L. J. Seventeen specimens of building stones; from vari-
ous localities.

Willard, 8S. W. Specimen of bird-skin (Vireo Philadelphia); from Wis-
consin.

Willetts, James O. Specimens of alcoholic fishes, (Argyrosomus, sp.) ;
from New York.

Williams, C. A. Eleven specimens of whaling apparatus.

Williams, Lieut. C. A., U. S. A. Package of butterflies.

Williams, Dr. Edward H. Carved panel (dragon); from Buddhist
temple in the interior of Japan.

Williams & Page. Specimens of railroad and steamship lamps; from
Massachusetts.

Williams, W. Specimen of Blepharis crinitus; from Connecticut.

Williamson, W. A. Box of insects, with cells; from Toronto, Canada.

Wilson, Mrs. Reiley (through John B. Wiggins). Specimens of fossils;
from New York.

Wiltheiss, C. T. Specimen of an inscribed stone; from Ohio. (Loan.)

Wing, L. and W.R. Fifteen specimens of whale-boat fittings, and one
specimen of baleen; from Massachusetts.

Wise, Morgan R. Two specimens of gold-bearing quartz; from Vir-
ginia.

Witherow, Jos. M. (through Edward Nichols). Specimen of stone imple-
ment, boat-shaped; from North Carolina.

Wolff, A. Specimen of hematite; from California.

Wolle, sr., A. Mounted specimen of Mareca penelope, shot near Balti-
more; eggs of Oallipsittacus nove-hollandia, laid in confinement;
specimen of Pionias vioiaceus ; from Demerara; and birds’ skins; from
South America.

Woltz, George. Clarionet without mouth-piece, and one mouth-piece for
A and B flat.

Women’s Silk-Culture Association, Philadelphia. Frame and three sam-
ples of American grown and manufactured silk.

Wood, Brightman & Co. Two jacket-lamps, powder-horn, blubber-room
lamp, blow-horn for whale-boat, boat and cook’s lanterns, and deek-
scoop, oil; from Massachusetts.

Woode, E. and C. Collection of hair and clothes brushes; from New
York.

Wood, George. Exhibit of corrugated and creased leather.

Wood, M. L., U.S. N. Alcoholic specimens of fishes (Batrachus tau,
Hemirhamphus unifasciatus, Ocyturus chrysurus, Diabasis formosus) ;
from Florida.
REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 263

Wood, Sir William, Egypt. One large mosaic lion, exhibited at the Cen-
tennial Exhibition at Philadelphia, Pa.; valued at $25,000.
Wood, W. M., U.S. N. Specimens of fresh shad (Clupea sapidissima) ;
from Potomac River.
Woodbury, J. G. Alcoholic specimens of striped bass (Roceus saxatilis),
with parasites, (Livoneca); from California.
Woodward, W. Elliott. Two stone mortars, end piece of cloth showing
tracing of rock carving; from Massachusetts.
Wooster, A. #. Specimen, in flesh, of a bat; from Connecticut.
Wooten Well Company. Four demijohus of mineral water; from Texas.
Wright, Harrison. Specimen of sunfish (Lepomis gibbosus); from Penn-
Sylvania.
Wright, H. L. Alcoholic specimen of fish; from Washington, D. C.
VYright, Reuben. Specimen of living horned-frog (Phynosoma cornu-
tum); from Texas.
Yancey, B. M. Package of rocks; froin Virginia.
Yarrow, Dr. H. C. Two stone implements: from North Carolina.
Yeates, W. 8S. Three specimens of fossils; from New York.
York, William F. Collection of clay concretions; from beds along the
headwaters of the Connecticut River.
Zeledon, José O. One box of stone images, pottery, celts, fragments of
pottery, and one box of insects; from Costa Rica.
_ Zoological Society, Philadelphia, Pa. Specimen of vulturine Guinea-fowl
(Numida vulturina); from West Africa.
Zorn, George, & Co. Two boxes of wood and clay pipes; over 300 styles.
ACTS AND RESOLUTIONS OF CONGRESS RELATIVE TO THE
SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, NATIONAL MUSEUM, ETC.

IN CONTINUATION FROM PREVIOUS REPORTS.

APPROPRIATIONS FOR FISCAL YEAR ENDING JUNE 30, 1882.

Furniture and fixtures, National Museum —To expedite the work of
constructing the exhibition cases in the new building for the National
Museum during the present fiscal year, thirty thousand dollars.

(Deficiency appropriation act, March 6, 1882. Statutes, xxii, p. 10.)

Fire-proof building for National Museum.—To pay Thomas J. Hobbs
for disbursing the appropriations for the construction of the National
Museum building, under appointment of the Secretary of the Treasury
of March 28, 1879, two hundred and fifty dollars, in full satisfaction
therefor.

(Deficiency appropriation act, August 5, 1882. Statutes, xxii, p. 274.)

APPROPRIATIONS FOR FISCAL YEAR ENDING JUNE 30, 1883.

Preservation of collections, National Museum.—For expense of heating,
lighting, and telephonic and electrical service for the new Museum build-
ing, six thousand dollars; for the preservation and exhibition of the col-
lections received from the surveying and exploring expeditions of the
Government, and other sources, including salaries or compensation of
all necessary employés, seventy-five thousand dollars; for expense of
transferring to Washington the collections presented to the United
States at the close of the Permanent International Exhibition, in Phila-
delphia, including necessary expenses already incurred for the purpose,
ten thousand dollars. Total, ninety-one thousand dollars.

(Sundry civil appropriation act, August 7, 1882. Statutes, xxii, pp.
332, 333.)

Armory building.—For care of the Armory building and expense of
watching, preservation, and storage of the duplicate collections of the
Government and of property of the United States Fish Commission
contained therein, including salaries or compensation of all necessary
employés, two thousand five hundred dollars, and the distribution of
duplicate specimens of the National Museum and Fish Commission may
be made to colieges, academies, and other institutions of learning, upon

264
dl

ACTS OF CONGRESS 265

the payment by the recipients of the cost of preparation for transporta-
tion and the transportation thereof.

(Sundry civil appropriation act, August 7, 1882. Statutes, xxii, pp.
332, 333.)

Furniture and fixtures, National Museum.—For cases, furniture, and
fixtures required for the exhibition of the collections of geology, min-
eralogy, natural history, ethnology, and the industrial arts, belonging
to the United States, and for salaries or compensation of all necessary
employés, sixty thousand dollars.

(Sundry civil appropriation act, August 7, 1882. Statutes, xxii, p.
332.)

North American ethnology, Smithsonian Institution —For the purpose
of continuing ethnological researches among the North American In-
dians, under the direction of the Secretary of the Smithsonian Insti-
tution, including salaries and compensation of all necessary employés,
thirty-five thousand dollars.

(Sundry civil appropriation act, August 7, 1882. Statutes, xxii, p.
332.)

International exchanges, Smithsonian Institution.—For expenses of the
international exchanges between the United States and foreign coun-
tries, in accordance with the Paris convention of 1877, including salaries
and compensation of all necessary employés five thousand dollars.

(Sandry civil appropriation act, August 7, 1882. No. 217; Statutes,
Xxii, p. 332.)

War Department.—For the transportation of reports and maps to for-
eign countries, through the Smithsonian Institution, three hundred dol-
lars.

(Sundry civil appropriation act, August 7, 1882. Statutes, xxii, p.
319.)

Naval Observatory.—For payment to Smithsonian Institution for
freight on Observatory publications to be shipped to foreign countries
during the fiscal year 1883, three hundred and thirty-six dollars and
twenty-five cents.

(Legislative, executive, and judicial appropriation act, August 5, 1882.
Statutes, xxii, p. 245.)

APPROPRIATIONS FOR FISCAL YEAR ENDING JUNE 30, 1884.

International exchanges.—For international exchanges, Smithsonian
Institution: For expenses of the international exchanges between the
United States and foreign countries, in accordance with the Paris con-
266 " ACTS OF CONGRESS.

vention of eighteen hundred and seventy-seven, including salaries and
compensation of all necessary employés, seven thousand five hundred
dollars,

(Sundry civil appropriation act, March 3, 1883. Statutes, xxii, p. 603.)

International exchanges, Navy Department.—For payment to Smith-
sonian Institution for freight on Observatory publications sent to foreign
countries, three hundred and thirty-six dollars.

(Legislative, executive, and judicial appropriat:en act, March 3, 1883.
Statutes, xxii, p. 618.)

War Departmcnt.—F¥or the transportation of reports and maps to for-
eign countries: For the transportation of reports and maps to foreign
countries, through the Smithsonian Institution, three hundred dollars.

(Sundry civil appropriation act, March 3, 1883. Statutes, xxii, p. 555.)

Transfer of centennial collections, Treasury Department.—To complete
the transfer and preparation of the Philadelphia collections presented
to the United States at the close of the permanent international exhibi-
tion in Philadelphia, including necessary expenses already incurred, four
thousand one hundred and twelve dollars and eighty-two cents,

(Deficienvy appropriation act, March 3, 1883. Statutes, xxii, p. 584.)

Fire-proofing Smithsonian Institution.—For completing the reconstrue-
tion, in a fire-proof manner, of the interior of the eastern portion of the
Smithsonian Institution, fifty thousand dollars.

(Sundry civil appropriation act, March 3, 1883. Statutes, xxii, p. 628.)

North American Ethnology—For North American Ethnology, Smith-
sonian Institution: For the purpose of continuing ethnological researches
among the North American Indians, under the direction of the Secretary
of the Smithsonian Institution, including salaries and compensation of
all necessary employés, forty thousand dollars, cf which three thousand
dollars shall be expended for continuing and completing the compilation
and preparation of a statistical atlas of Indian affairs by C. C. Royce,
under the direction of the Bureau of Ethnology, Smithsonian Institution
which shall be immediately available.

(Sundry civil appropriation act, March 3, 1883. Statutes, xxii, p. 628.)

Furniture and fixtures, National Museum.—For furniture and fixtures
of the National Museum: For cases, furniture, and fixtures required for
- the exhibition of the collections of geology, mineralogy, natural history,
ethnology, and the industrial arts belonging to the United States, and
for salaries or compensation of all necessary employés, sixty thousand

dollars.
(Sundry civil appropriation act, March 3, 1883. Statutes, xxii, p. 628.)

Heating and lighting National Museum, etc.—For heating and lighting
ACTS OF CONGRESS. 267

the National Museum: For expense of heating, lighting, and telephonic
and electrical service for the new museum building, six thousand dollars.

(Sundry civil appropriation act, March 3, 1883. Statutes, xxii, p. 629.)

Preservation of collections.—For the preservation of collections of the
National Museum: For the preservation and exhibition of the collec-
tions reccived from sirveying and exploring expeditions of the Govern-
ment, aud other sources, including salaries or compensations of all
necessary employés, ninety thousand dollars.

(Sundry civil appropriation act, March 3, 1883. Statutes, xxii, p. 629.)

Armory building.—For the preservation of collections of the National
Museum in the Armory building: For care of the Armory buildings and
grounds, and expense of watching, preservation, and storage of the dupli-
cate collections of the Government and of property of the United States
Fish Commission contained therein, including salaries or compensation
of all necessary employés, two thousand five hundred dollars. And the
distribution of duplicate specimens of the National Museum and Fish
Commission may be made to colleges, academies, and other institutions
of learning, upon the payment by the recipients of the cost of prepara-
tion for transportation and the transportation thereof.

(Sundry civil appropriation act, March 3, 1883. Statutes, xxii, p. 629.)

INAUGURATION OF THE HENRY STATUE.

[No. 16.] Joint resolution accepting the invitation of the Regents of the Smith-
sonian Institute to attend the inauguration of the statue of JosEPpH HENRY.

Whereas, in a communication from Spencer F. Baird, Secretary of
the Smithsonian Institute, Congress was informed that in accordance
with an act of June first, eighteen hundred and eighty, the bronze
statue of Joseph Henry, late Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution,
had been completed; and whereas in the same communication, Con-
gress was respectfully invited to be present on the occasion of its formal
presentation to the public upon Thursday the nineteenth of April next,
Therefore be it

Resolved by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
States of America in Congress assembled, That the said invitation be
and the same is hereby accepted by the Senate and House of Repre-
sentatives; and that the President of the Senate select seven members
of that body ; and the Speaker of the House of Representatives fifteen
members of that body to be present and represent the Congress of the
United States, upon the occasion of the presentation and inauguration
of said statue.

(Approved February 24, 1883. Statutes, xxii, p. 639.)
268 ACTS OF CONGRESS

PRINTING CENTENNIAL EXHIBITION REPORT.

[No. 21.] Joint resolution to print five thousand copies of the report of the Board
on behalf of the United States Executive Departments at the International Exhibition
of eighteen hundred and seventy-six.

Resolved by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
States af America in Congress assembled, That there be printed and
bound, in continuation of the series of volumes heretofore published by
Congress under joint resolution of June twentieth, eighteen hundred
and seventy-nine, containing the final report of the United States Oen-
tennial Commission on the International Exhibition of eighteen hun-
dred and seventy-six, and uniform therewith, five thousand copies of
the report of the Board on behalf of the United States Executive De-
partments at said Exhibition, being the report which was submitted to
Congress .by the President of the United States, by special message of
February ninth, eighteen bundred and seventy-seven, and again in his
annual message of December third, eighteen hundred and seventy-
seven, of which number three thousand copies shall be for the House,
one thousand copies for the Senate, two hundred copies for the Smith-
sonian Institution for distribution to. such foreign governments and
others as made contributions from such Exhibition to the National
Museum, three hundred copies for the Jate members of said Board, and
five hundred copies for distribution by the late president of the Cen-
tennial Commission, the printing to be done by the Public Printer,
under the supervision of the late chairman of said Board, upon whose
order may be ajJlowed by the Public Printer to the-late secretary of the
Board not exceeding three hundred dollars for services to be performed,
and incidental expenses to be incurred in connection therewith: Pro-
vided, That the photographic views of the Government exhibit accom-
panying the manuscript report shall not be printed or reproduced for
the publication herein authorized.

(Approved March 3, 1883. Statutes, xxii, pp. 640, 641.)

SOUTHERN EXPOSITION AT LOUISVILLE, KY.

Chap. 99.—An act relative to the Southern Exposition to be held in the city of
Louisville, State of Kentucky, in the year eighteen hundred and eighty-three.

Whereas ample means have been provided for holding, during the
present year, in the city of Louisville, State of Kentucky, of an exposi-
tion of the products of agriculture, manufactures, and the fine arts; and

Whereas the objects of such an exposition should commend them-
selves to Congress, and its success should be promoted by all reasona-
ble encouragement, provided it can be done without expense to the gen-
eral public: Therefore,
ACTS OF CONGRESS. 269

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
States of America in Congress assembled, That all articles which shall be
imported for the sole purpose of exhibition at the Southern Exposition
at Louisville, Kentucky, to be held in the year eighteen hundred and
eighty-three, shall be admitted without the payment of duty, or of cus-
toms fees or charges, under such regulations as the Secretary of the
Treasury shall prescribe: Provided, That all such articles as shall be
sold in the United States, or withdrawn for consumption therein, at any
time after such importation, shall be subject to the duties, if any, im-
posed on like articles by the revenue laws in force at the date of impor-
tation: And provided further, That in case any articles imported under
the provision of this act shall be withdrawn for consumption, or shall
be sold without payment of duty as required by law, all penalties pre-
scribed by the revenue laws shall be applied and enforced against
such articles, and against the persons who may be guilty of such with-
drawal or sale.

Sec. 2. That medals, with appropriate device, emblems, and inscrip-
tions, commemorative of said Southern Exposition, aud of the awards
to be made to exhibitors thereat, be prepared at s. me mint of the United
States, for the board of directors thereof, subject to the provisions of
the fifty-second section of the coinage act of eighteceu hundred and sey-
enty-three, upon the payment of a sum not less than the cost thereof;
and all the provisions, whether penal or otherwise, of said coinage act
against the counterfeiting or imitating of coins of the United States
shall apply to the medals struck and issued under this act.

SEc. 3. That with the approval of the director of the National Mu-
seum, any pertion of the collections thereof may be exhibited at said
Southern Exposition, permission to remove the same {rom the National
Museum being hereby, granted: Provided, That said removal can be
made without loss or expense to the Government. And upon the same
conditions permission is also granted for the exhibition of articles in
charge of other Bureaus and Departments of the Government.

SEc. 4. That upon the passage of this act the Secretary of State
shall notify the consuls, consular agents, and other representatives of
our Government in foreign countries of the time and place of holding
said Southern Exposition, together with the fact that all articles in-
tended therefor will be admitted free of duty, as provided herein.

(Legislative, executive, and judicial appropriation act, March 3, 1883.
Statutes, xxil, pp. 481, 482.)

LONDON FISHERY EXHIBITION.

[No. 49.] JoInT RESOLUTION concerning an International Fishery Exhibition to be
held at London, in May, eighteen hundred and eighty-three.

Whereas the Government of the United States has received official
270 ACTS OF CONGRESS.

intimation from that of Great Britain that it is proposed to hold an In-
ternational Exhibition of Fish, Fisheries, and Fish Products at London
in May, eighteen hundred and eighty-three, whereat the representation
of the United States is invited; and

Whereas, also, by its action as a Government, and by the active en-
terprise of merchants, fishermen, and inventors and the researches of
men of science in this country, the United States has attained and holds
a prominent place in all that relates to the development of the great
fisheries industries, the extension of the great commercial relationship
with other countries based on the exportation of prepared fish products;
which now forms an important factor in the national wealth, the artifi-
cial propagation of food fishes, and the re-stocking of depleted fishing
waters, and it is expedient that the industries and interests thus con-
cerned should be adequately represented on the occasion: Therefore,

Resolved, by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States
of America in Congress assembled, That the invitation of the British
Government be accepted, and that, under the auspices of the Depart-
ment of State, the United States Commissioner of Fish and Fisheries
be, and he hereby is, instructed to prepare or cause to be prepared a
complete and systematic representative exhibition of the fisheries of
the United States, in which shall be shown the following: A series of
fishing grounds; a full series of the principal sea and fresh-water fishes,
shell-fish, sponges, and so forth, and other useful inhabitants of the
waters of the country (either as specimens, casts, or illustrations) ; speci-
mens of models of the various kinds of gear, apparatus, boats, and so
forth, used in their capture; a full collection of articles showing the
commercial and economic uses of the fishes and other water animals,
which shall include, besides the samples and specimens, models and
other representations of appliances used in their preparation and pres-
ervation for food as well as for purposes of use and ornament, such as
dried, smoked, and canned fish, and so forth; oils, fertilizers, manufact-
ured shells, corals, sponges, and so forth; also a full series of articles,
or models thereof, showing the economic condition of our fishermen,
such as clothing and other personal outfit, models of dwelling houses,
and so forth; «a collection of documents showing the present condition
of fishery legislation; also specimens, models, and illustrations of the
apparatus used in artificial hatching and breeding of fish, oysters, and
so forth; models of hatcheries, ponds, fishways, transportation cars,
vessels, and so forth; statistical maps showing the range, abundance,
and so forth, of our fishes, and so forth; also sach other facts, appara-
tus, models, specimens, and so forth, as may be needed to convey a cor-
rect idea of this branch of the nation’s industries.

Suo. 2. That with the approval of the Director of the National Mu-
seum, any cognate portion of the collections thereof may be used in the
preparation of the exhibit herein provided for, permission to remove
ACTS OF CONGRESS. Del

the same from the National Museum being hereby granted. And the
Commissioner of Fish and Fisheries is hereby authorized to obtain, by
exchange or otherwise, such procurable objects from other exhibits in
London as may tend to perfect the permanent fishery exhibit of the
United States National Museum.

Src. 3. That it shall be the duty of the United States Commissioner
of Fish and Fisheries to present to Congress a detailed report of the
present condition of the European fisheries, with information as to any
methods by which those of the United States can be modified or im-
proved, as well as any suggestions he may deem pertinent in regard to
increasing the exportation of fishery products from the United States
to foreign countries.

Src. 4. That the United States Commissioner of Fish and Fisheries
is hereby authorized to represent the United States at the exhibition
in question, either in person or by a deputy to be appointed by the
President of the United States, together with such assistants as he may
recommend as useful in carrying out the proposed participation of the
United States at the exhibition.

Sec. 5. That in order to defray the expenses of the collection, prepa-
ration and packing of the exhibit authorized, its transfer from and to
the United States, its installation and supervision, in London, and such
other incidental expenses as may of necessity arise, there is hereby ap-
propriated, out of any money in the Treasury of the United States not
otherwise appropriated, the sum of fifty thousand dollars, or so much
thereof as may be required, to be immediately available, and to be ex-
pended by the United States Commissioner of Fish and Fisheries, un-
der the direction and regulations of the Department of State.

(Approved July 18, 1882. Statutes, xxi', pp. 387-389.)

WITHDRAWAL OF SMITHSONIAN DEPOSIT.
Cuar, 481. An act for the relief of Mary E. Thomson.

Be it enacted, &e., That Mary Ei. Thomson, mother of Passed Assist-
ant Paymaster Curtis H. Thomson, United States Navy, deceased, be,
and is hereby authorized to accept, first, a portrait, in frame, of Her

toyal Highness, the Princess of Siam; second, a silver enameled cigar
case; third, a match-box and tray of Siamese work, the same being
presented to said Curtis H. Thomson, in his lifetime, by the King of
Siam, and now ou deposit in the Smithsonian Institution.

(Approved August 8, 1882. Statutes, xxii, p. 738.)
272 ACTS OF CONGRESS.
DISTRIBUTION OF PUBLIC DOCUMENTS.
Resolution of the House of Representatives, August 8, 1882.

Resolved, That the Librarian of Congress, the Secretary of the Smith-
sonian Institution, and the Superintendent of Documents, Department
of the Interior, be and they are hereby requested to compile the laws
and regulations now in force governing the printing and distribution of
public documents; to prepare a tabulated statement showing the num-
ber of documents printed by order of Forty-sixth and the first session
of the Forty-seventh Congress, and under general laws now in force,
and the disposition directed to be made of the same; and to repcrt what
reductions should be made in the number of such documents, and to
present such other information at their command relating to publie
documents as will tend to promote judicious legislation and submit the
draft of a bill to provide for the printing and distribution of documents,
and they shall report to the House at the beginning of the next session,
GENERAL APPENDIX

TO THE

SMITHSONTAN REPORT FOR 1882.

1). Mis. 2618

273
ADVERTISEMENT.

The object of the GENERAL APPENDIX is to furnish summaries of
scientific discovery in particular directions; occasional reports of the
investigations made by collaborators of the Institution; memoirs of a
general character or on special topics, whether original and prepared
expressly for the purpose, or selected from foreign journals and proceed-
ings; and briefly to present (as fully as space will permit) such papers
not published in the ‘Smithsonian Contributions” or in the “ Miscella-
neous Collections” as may be supposed to be of interest or value to the
numerous correspondents of the Institution.

274
RECORD OF SCIENTIFIC PROGRESS FOR 1882.

INTRODUCTION.

While it has been a prominent object of the Board of Regents of the
Smithsonian Institution, from a very early date in its history, to enrich
the annual report required of them by law, with scientific memoirs illus-
trating the more remarkable and important developments in physical
and biological discovery, as well as showing the general character of
the operations of the Institution, this purpose had not been carried out
on any very systematic plan. Believing however that an annual report
or summary of the recent advances made in the leading departments
of scientific inquiry would supply a want very generally felt, and would
be favorably received by all those interested in the diffusion of knowl-
edge, the Secretary had prepared for the report of 1880, by competent
collaborators, a series of abstracts showing concisely the prominent
features of recent scientific progress in astronomy, geology, physics,
chemistry, mineralogy, botany, zodlogy, and anthropology.

The same general programme was followed in the report for 1881, ex-
cepting the account of geologic progress, which was necessarily omitted
in consequence of the illness and lamented death of Dr. G. W. Hawes,
to whom the subject had been referred. In the record for the present
year, Dr. T. Sterry Hunt, of Montreal, Canada, has supplied very aec-
ceptably this deficiency. A sketch of geographical progress during
the years 1881 and 1882 has also been furnished for the present report
by Commander F. M. Green, U. S. N. The account of progress in
chemistry has been undertaken by Prof. H. Carrington Bolton, of
Trinity College, Hartford. The résumé of progress in mineralogy, like-
wise unfortunately omitted in the report for 1881 (owing to the death
of Dr. Hawes, as above mentioned), has this year been supplied by Prof.
Edward 8S. Dana, of Yale College, New Haven. The remaining con-
tributors have continued their work, as heretofore.

With every eifort to secure prompt attention to all the more impor-
tant details of such a work, various unexpected delays frequently render
it impracticable to obtain all the desired reports in each department
within the time prescribed. In such cases it is designed, if possible, to
bring up deficiencies and supply them in subsequent reports.

The value of this annual record of progress would be much enhanced by
an enlargement of its scope, and the inclusion, not only of such branches
as mathematics, physiology, pathology and medicine, microscopy, &c.,

975
276 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882.

but also of the more practical topics of agricultural and horticult-
ural economy, engineering, mechanics, and technology in general; but
the space required for such larger digest seems scarcely available in
the present channel. The scientific résumé, which in 1880 occupied 260
pages, and in 1881 extended to 330 pages, has this year reached 400
pages. An efficient condensation of this matter does not seem easily
practicable.

It is hardly necessary to remark that inasummary of the annual pro-
gress of scientific discovery so condensed as the present, the wants of
the specialist in any branch can be but imperfectly supplied ; and very
many items and details of great value to him must be entirely omitted.
While the student in a special field of knowledge may occasionally re-
ceive hints that will be found of interest, he will naturally be led to
consult for fuller information the original journals and special periodi-
cals from which these brief notices or abstracts have been compiled.

The plan of devoting some 350 pages of the annual report to such a
compilation is not designed to preclude the introduction into the ‘“‘Gen-
eral Appendix,” as heretofore, of special monographs or discussions
that may prove interesting to the scientific student.

SPENCER F. BAIRD.
ASTRONOMY.

By Prof. EDWARD 8. HOLDEN,
Director of the Washburn Observatory.

This record of astronomical progress during the year 1882 is in con-
tinuation of that of preceding years and is prescuted in the same form.
Abstracts of some of the most important papers of the year are given,
arranged under appropriate heads. To the professional astronomer
they may serve aS a convenient collection of reviews and notes. But
their chief aim is to convey to the large and increasing class of those
interested in astronomy, and having some acquaintance with it, an idea
of its annual progress. This object might be more directly attained by
writing a connected account of the year’s work without referring to
separate papers. It is, however, conceived that the present plan really
serves its purpose better.

While the progress of astronomy in general, as well as that of other
sciences, is even and sustained if viewed from a distance, yet this prog-
ress is really made by steps and irregularly. It is of value to be able
to follow these steps one by one.

The writer has made free use of reviews which have appeared in
scientific periodicals, and especially of abstracts which he has himself
written.

NEBULZ, ETC.

Nebula in Orion.—The Naval Observatory has recently published a
monograph of the Central Parts of the Nebula of Orion (quarto, 230 pp.,
42 illustrations), by Professor Holden.

Part I gives a history of the various researches on the nebula of Orion,
in chronological order, from Cysat, 1618, to the observations of the
author in 1882. With this are given 38 wood-cuts, which are engraved
from photographs of the principal published (and unpublished) draw-
ings. A very fine drawing-of Lassell is here given for the first time.

Part II (pp. 108-197) gives the observations made by Professor
Holden at Washington and Madison in the years 1874-1882.

Part III is a summary of all the observations arranged for compar-
ison.

Part IV gives the conclusions to be reached with regard to possible
variations in the shape or brilliancy of its parts. These are, in brief,
that there have certainly been changes in the relative brightness of some

277
278 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882.

of the parts, but that no evidence exists of any changes of form other
than those which might be due to changes in relative brightness.
These changes in brightness have been examined by the author by
photometric measures by means of an instrument devised by Prof.
Charles 8S. Hastings.

An addendum gives a magnificent photograph of the nebula made by
Dr. Henry Draper, his last published work. The frontispiece is Bond’s
beautiful steel engraving of the nebula, which was kindly furnished by
Protessor Pickering.

Spectrum of Nebula in Orion.—Dr. Huggins has succeeded in photo-
graphing the spectrum of the nebula of Orion (March 7, 1882,), and ‘in
addition to known lines” a strong line in the ultra-violet is shown. The
same thing had also been done by Dr. Henry Draper, and from a private
letter we learn that he had made four such photographs, which show
that two knots of nebulosity in the bright mass just preceding the
trapezium have a continuous spectrum, and that there are traces of the
same in other parts of the nebula.

Dr. Huggins has obtained a fine photograph of the spectrum of this
nebula, which shows a nev line A 3730, in addition to the four which he
has located in the visible spectrum.

In this connection it may be worth while to correct a common, al-
though a natural, error with regard to the question of the discovery of
the discontinuous nature of the spectra of nebule.

In August, 1864, Dr. Huggins investigated the spectra of nebul be-
fore any other observer, and communicated the results to the Royal
Society on September 8, 1°64.

Secchi’s observations of the spectra of nebulz are published in the
Comptes Rendus of 1865, and appear to be the record of an independent
discovery ; ceitainly they are usually so considered. That they are
not independent, may be seen from the fact that the results of Dr. Hug-
gins were communicated to P. Seechi by Director Otto V. Struve, who
was at the time on a mission to Rome. Secchi received the announce-
ment with incredulity, but as Struve insisted on its correctness Secchi
pointed on a nebula and saw the gaseous spectrum for the first time in
consequence of thisannouncement. This may not seem important now,
but it is a portion of the history of astronomy, and if recorded at all,
it should be stated correctly.

FIXED STARS.

Dr. Goulds southern zones.—The second volume of the Cordoba ob-
servations is at last printed. (Vol. I was the Uranometria Argentina.)
It contains the places of some 460 southern stars for the large catalogue
of 30,000 southern stars, and also 128 zones, containing some 13,000
stars. This is the first installment of a very important work under-
taken by Dr. Gould in 187071; which was to prepare a zone catalogue
of the region of the sky from (and overlapping) Argelander’s southern
ASTRONOMY. 279

zones (which end at —31°) to (and overlapping) Gilliss’ zones, yet unre-
duced, which extend from the south pole to 25° 8. P. D. and contain
some 27,000 stars.

All the observations (1871-1881) are now reduced, and they make a
grand showing.

Observations.

ORO NCALALOL IG. 2) isis = 5.6 - sie + wpay carsapelainaimeiaele ee a\(s\alsiels tay LAT, OOO
umdamental stars. .).\-<~- ..)+5.:2< 0c 15 Bi CSS IRS 14, 000
MTGE ZO MES ts iey(2 catalase} = sro.a/=. s'a:c e126 Pan nice Ae Re By ay era 105, 000
BE ea ere octet. Soke ais.6 chia chal ca leneret ante Reena = 240, 000

About half of these were made by Dr. Gould himself. The total num-
ber of individual stars is about 73,000 in the zones and 30,000 in the
catalogue. The individual observations of the same star made in dif-
ferent years agree well, the average discordance being below 05.10 in
KR. A. and 2” in Declination.

One great obstacle to the rapid publication of these volumes is the
printing, which has to be done in Buenos Ayres. A meteorological vol-
ume (Vol. IL) has also just been issued. Dr. Gould may be congratu-
lated on the amount of work which he has accomplished in his ten years
of exile. His uranometry, his catalogue of fundamental stars, his large
catalogue of 30-35,000 stars, and his zones make a showing of which
any observatory would be proud.

The state of our knowledge of the southern sky, so long an unknown
region, is becoming satisfactory. The years 1870-1880 have seen great
advances. At the Cape of Good Hope, the late Royal astronomer, Mr.
E. J. Stone, has printed three catalogues of first-rate importance.

Ist. The Cape catalogue of 2,892 stars (epoch 1840) from Maclear’s
observations (1834-40).

2d. The Cape catalogue of 1,159 stars (epoch 1860) from Maclear’s
observations (1856-61).

3d. The Cape catalogue of 12,441 stars (epoch 1880) from observations
by Mr Stone (187080). Nearly all of Lacaille’s 9,766 stars have been
reobserved for this last catalogue.

From Melbourne we have a fine catalogue (epoch 1870) of 1,227 stars,
from observations made by Mr. White (under the direction of Mr. El-
lery, Government astronomer) since the observatory was moved from
Williamstown.

Lamont’s catalogue of 5,563 stars (many in southern declination) was
published in 1874 and Yarnall’s, which contains some 6,000 southern
stars, in 1878. The next ten years will see the complete publication of
Schoenfeld’s Durchmusterung from — 2° to — 23°; its extension from
— 23° southwards by Prof. O. Stone, the publication of Gilliss’ zones (from
0° to 25° S. P. D.) by Professor Harkness at Washington, and of Gould’s
80,000 zone stars, and very possibly the publication in catalogue form
of the Washington zones (1846~49), containing 38,000 observations.
280 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882.

Zone observations.—In Bessel’s southern zones (+15° to —15°) and
northern zones (+15° to +45°) there are 75,011 observations of 62,000
stars. The actual time spent in observing was 868 hours, 18 minutes,
so that on the average a star was observed every 41%.7, or at the rate of
83.64 stars per hour. Two observers participated, Bessel and Arge-
lander. In Argelander’s northern zones (+45° to +80°) there were
26,424 observations of 22,000 stars. The actual time required was about
320 hours, and an observation was made every 43°.6 on the average, or
at the rate of $2.56 per hour. In Argelander’s southern zones (—15° to
—31°) there were 23,250 observations of 17,600 stars. The time employed
was about 281 hours. On the average an observation consumed 43%.5,
or the rate was 82.75 stars per hour. In Argelander’s, as in Bessel’s
zones, two observers participated.

In the Washington zones (1846~49) only one observer was employed
at each instrument. The rates are as follows: Meridian Circle Zones,
1846, 4,137 observations were made in 178" 19™, or at the rate of
23.20 per hour; Meridian Circle Zones, 1847, 1848, and 1849, 7,388 ob-
servations were made in 227" 30™, or 32.52 per hour; Transit Zones,
1846-49, 12,029 observations were made in 395" 55™, or at the rate
of 30.37 stars per hour; Mural Circle Zones, 1846-49, 14,792 observa-
tions were made in 500° 27", or at the rate of 29.55 stars per hour.
It thus appears that two observers working together will do one-third
more work than working separately.

At the Strasburg meeting of the German Astronomical Society (Sep-
tember, 1881) reports were made of the progress of the zone observa-
tions as usual. These are epitomized as below:

Kasan: Observatory: Zone 80°-75°. This zone is nearly finished.

Dorpat: Zone 759-709. All the declinations are reduced to 1875.0 and
the observations of R. A. partly reduced. The zone is almost completed.

Christiania : Zone 70°-65°. This zone is also nearly completed.

Helsingfors-Gotha: Zone 65°-55°. The observations are done and
are now being printed.

Cambridge (U.8.): Zone 55°-50°. The observations were completed
in January, 1870, and required 633 nights for about 20,000 observations.
The reductions will. ve finished in 1882.

Bonn : Zone 50°-40°. The final catalogue is complete as far as 3".

Lund: Zone 40°-35°. The observations will be finished in 1882.

Leyden: Zone 359-309. The zones are printed, and the definitive
catalogue is in preparation.

Cambridge (England): Zone 309-259. Hight hundred and twenty-
eight stars are yet to be observed.

Berlin: Zone 25°-20°. This zone is observed by Dr. Becker, and
80 per cent. of the observations are made.

Berlin: Gone 20°-15°. This zone is observed by Dr. Auwers, and is
nearly completed.

Leipsic : Gone 15°-5°. The zone 15°-10° has been completed for some
ASTRONOMY. 281

time. The zone 10°-5°, lately undertaken, will not be finished before
13885.

Albany: Zone 5°-1°. Some 600 observations are yet to be made,
17,000 having been made.

Nikolaief: Zone +1°-2°. No reports were received.

We learn from a recent letter of Prof. O. Stone, director of the Me-
Cormick Observatory, that his Durchmusterung (or zone observation of
all the stars from the first to the tenth magnitude inclusive), from —23°
southwards, is progressing rapidly. The zones are 1° wide, and four
zones are nearly finished, so that printing may commence this year.
Schoenfeld’s Durchmusterung (from —2° to — 23°) is also nearly ready
for publication.

Definitive positions of the red stars.—Part LV. of the Astronomical
Observations and Researches made at Dunsink, the Observatory of Trinity
College, Dublin, contains the mean places of 321 red stars, deduced
from observations made with the meridian circle at Dunsink by Dr.
J. L. &. Dreyer.

The work contains about 1,140 observations of the 321 stars, each of
which has been observed on the average three and a half times. Of
these observations, 445 were made by Dr. Copeland in 1875~76, and
the remainder by Dr. Dreyer in 1878~80. .

The epoch of the catalogue is 1875.0, and the system is that of the
Astron. Gesell. zones, so that subsequent comparisons will be easy.
The work begins with an account of the Pistor & Martins meridian
circle. Its aperture is 6.38 inches, focus 8 feet. The power used has
been 180. This circle is similar in design to those of Ann Arbor, Al-
bany, Copenhagen, Leyden, Washington, and Leipsic. The standard
clock by Dent is mounted in the observing room. The observations
have been made by eye and ear over wires only 3%.2 apart, and Dr.
Dreyer says, what is tolerably clear, that this interval is too small,

The pointing in declination is done by means of two threads 14 inches
apart.

There is a difference in the size of the (exactly cylindric) pivots equal
to —0*,10. The collimation has been determined over mercury. The
equator-point has been determined from the zero stars of the Astron.
Gesell. The latitude is not definitively determined, but is taken at 53°
23/ 13/.0.

There is a difference in the horizontal flexures of the instrument,
Cl. E. and Cl. W., but the absolute flexure is small. Both circles are
finely divided, and the division errors of each are given. The cight
micrometer screws have been twice investigated. The constants of the
instrument have been investigated by all the various methods, and the
results by the various ways agree well.

Dr. Dreyer would confer a favor if he would describe in detail his
plan for getting the exact position for the counterpoise weights referred
to on page 7 of his work. It would be interesting to know how much
339 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882.

weight is allowed to remain on the Ys in the various meridian circles of
the world. The reductions are purely differential,as has been said. The
refraction is computed by Bessel’s tables, with the Greenwich modi-
fication.

The probable error of a clock correction derived from one star is
+ 08.052, and of a single determination of the equator-point +0.55, or
from four stars +0/.28. The resulting p. e. of a single declination is,
above—10°, +0’. 63, and from —10° to —26°, +0/.73.

For comparison with this work we can refer to the Ann Arbor dec-
linations of 195 stars, made with a circle of exactly the same size as
that of Dublin, and also by the same makers, published by the Wash-
burn Observatory (1881). ‘

This catalogue was observed by Mr. Scheberle in 1879, and the p. e.
of a single night in declination is +£0.55; in R. A. +0%.040 see. 6.
Schjellerup at Copenhagen (10,000 stars, p. xvi), found between 0° and
+15° p. e. in Dec. +0/.69, and between 0° and —15°, +0/.95.

The magnitudes of the stars have been assigned on Argelander’s
scale, and a note of the color of each star is given for each observation.

The main object of the work is to bequeath good determinations of
positicn of a large number of red stars, which may serve hereafter to
show if the red stars as a class have any peculiarities of proper motion.

Besides this object, another has been attained, in that 321 red stars
have been observed for color and magnitude on three or four nights
each on the average.

Dr. Dreyer has now undertaken the observation of a large number ot
zero stars for Schoenfeld’s Durchmusterung with this circle, which, like
the large refractor of the observatory, is not destined to be idle.

Double stars.—No. 6 of ‘“ Publications of the Cincinnati Observatory”
has been issued. It contains micrometrical measures of double stars
made with the 11-inch refractor in 1879-80, consisting partly of obser-
vations preliminary to the formation of a general catalogue of known
double stars situated between the equator and 30° south declination,
and partly of observations of objects which Mr. Burnbam has found to
need re-observing. The cases of notable differences from previous meas-
ures are collected in the introduction. The refractor appears to have
been much improved since the object-glass was refigured by Messrs.
Alvan Clark & Sons.

The double star observations of Baron Dembowski are to be pub-
iished in the Atti della R. Accademia dei N. Lincei. They will fill three
to four of the (quarto) volumes, or about 1,500 pages in all, and are to
be edited by Professor Schiaparelli.

Variable stars.—Prof. E. C. Pickering, of Harvard College Observa-
tory, has prepared and published in pamphlet form a plan for securing
observations of the variable stars. It is well known to astronomers that
this observatory is doing systematic work in the study of the variable
ASTRONOMY. 283

stars, and this plan has been devised to bring this interesting branch ,
of astronomy to the attention of observers generally, and to secure de- :
sirable and needed co-operation in it. The work is easy but very useful,
and the plan is so minutely developed as to offer a delightful field of
study to amateurs for observation with the naked eye, the common
opera-glass, or the small telescope. Correspondence is desired with any
persons who wish to undertake this work.

Mr. G. Knott, writing from Cuckfield on May 29, states that he had
caught a maximum of the apparently capricious variable star “‘ U Gem-
inorum” on May 27 or 28; on both nights it was about 9™9. This,
compared with the previous maximum noted by the same observer on
February 28, gives a period of eighty-eight days.

Professor Schoenfeld finds that a star R. A. 16 13™ 36s., Decl. — 79
21’.0 tor 1855 is variable.

A star in R. A 19" 17™ 33s., Decl. — 21° 32/.3 for 1850, must be vari-
able to a great extent—6.5 to 9.0 at least.

Mr. 8. C. Chandler has made the very interesting discovery that the
period of the star, D. M. + 19, No. 3408, is not 54 days as was at first
supposed, but considerably less than one day, viz, 20" 7 418.6. The
error arose from the star having been visible for some time only in the
early evening. The minimum could therefore only be observed at in-
tervals of 5.03 days, 7. e., 6 periods, or sometimes 5.87 days, 7. é., 7 periods.
A combination of these resulted in the period assigned. All the varia-
tions from maximum to minimum, and back to maximum, are accom-
plished in about four hours, the maximum brightness being maintained
for sixteen hours. This star therefore has the shortest period known,
and is the most remarkable for the rapidity of its changes. The dura-
tion of increase and of decrease appears to be exactly equal, and the
range is about seven-tenths of a magnitude, from 6.0 or 6.1 to 6.7 or 6.8.

The star D. M +8°, 4899, was observed by Dr. Krueger (1853, August
29) as 9.5 magnitude and by Dr. Schoenfeld (1854, September 20) as 9.5
magnitude, and it was not seen by Schoenfeld in a zone observed 1854,
September 16. Dr. de Ball calls attention tothe fact that,on August 13,
(1882, it was barely visible in the eleven-inch refractor of the Bothkamp
Observatory.

In a recent paper presented to the Saint Petersburg Academy of
Sciences, Dr. Lindemann, of Pulkova, has investigated the effect of the
red colors of stars on estimates of their magnitudes. His observations
have been made with a Zoellner’s photometer, and he has compared
the results of Rosen and Wolff with his own. This is not the place to
indicate his methods, which indeed are laid down in Zoeliner’s well-known
work; but we may quote his general conclusion, to the effect that in
matching an artificial star produced by the photometer, with a red star,
the accidental errors are very great compared to similar comparisons
with white stars, and that in general the sensibility of the eye to red
rays is three or four times less than to blue, The errors may amount to
984 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882.

at least one magnitude, and he concludes that we should look with doubt
, upon red variable stars where the variability is less than a magnitude
or So.

Parallax of the star Bradley 3077.—Dr. Gylden has lately published
the results of his micrometric comparisons of this star with neighboring
ones. His memoir gives the parallax as 0/’.28 + 0.045. Professor Bru-
ennow found by a similar method the parallax to be 0.07 + 0/.02.

In this connection a recent paper by Dr. Backlund, of Pulkova, is in-
teresting, as it gives the reduction of some observations begun by Dr.
Wagner on the same star. These observations were made by means of
differences of R. A. with the transit instrument, and they were discon-
tinued as the comparison stars were too faint to observe during the
whole year. From the incomplete series Dr. Backlund has obtained the
following results:

Twenty-seven comparisons with star a give + 0.20 + 0/’.080.

Thirty-two comparisons with star b give + 0.21 4+ 0”.078. This star
has thus a small parallax. ;

Parallaxes of Alpha Lyre and of 61 Cygni.—During 1800 and 1881
Professor Hall, of the Naval Observatory, observed for the parallaxes
of these two stars on 77 and 66 nights, respectively, using the 26-inch
equatorial and micrometer I, with an eyepiece magnifying 383 times.
The results have been printed in the Washington observations for 1879.
The observations are of extreme precision, the probable errors of a single
distance in the case of Alpha Lyre being 0.075 and in that of 61 Cygnit
07.081.

A temperature coefficient was found for the screw from observations

. of 46 made during the series. The range of temperature was 42°F. If
this coefficient be used to reduce the 900 observations of transits made
in 1875, in which the range of temperature was 47° (Wash. Ast. Obs.
1877, App. I), the probable error of the resulting Ro is + 0.0020. Ifthe
temperature coefficient is omitted, the probable error is less than this.
As far as this goes, it would indicate that the coefficient is doubtful.

At any rate, its introduction will not affect the values of the resulting
parallaxes, which are:

AL DRG TOR arch iaiteei eet nie ote nto ek ee 0/7.180 + 0.006
OLY GTA asin tees ee eee 0/7.478 + 0/014

It will be interesting to compare these results with preceding ones.
For 61 Cygni we have—

POSSE) 7 Beat ht ee a ae Soht, Lk bepaeee ccuaic ihm Garantie 0”. 357
Bessel dy Schititer 2S sake oe weer eee ra spate 0 .536
VOMNSON, (ISG... 2 oc ek ek eee eee 0 .526
DOMMSOMS 20 x 5-.:ssi9ck Sot Se ee Chee Pen ct ctetereie 02292
EGA MEC ERY ine a Scie, 5 cle ESE eee a a rae 0.511
PATEWVICUS Soci oo Seats eiaete eb Dees Beene aera 0 .564
FGUBER a aulseelicn ies «ale odieiet hotels Giaeie tans er nee te ears 0 .349

BSL ioc ore SRE Sie ars SU ie RS ee 0 .465
ASTRONOMY. 285

For Alpha Iyre we have—

SCIEN WES Ne pee are ai n'a car oe were omega erator Nel claore ets oa see OreeiOu:
BVI meee a aot atic 5 a, She oe tu enor sta sarar auch Cte 3 0 .154
PSU IANO US UAS \o s\n 2 )5-aps cheese eae ee totes hs chew ese ot 0.131

etc., etc

Professor Hall’s work is especially interesting from the uniformity of
the measures and from their great precision, as well as showing the fit-
ness of the large telescope for such work.

At the Dublin Observatory, Professor Ball has nearly completed his
investigation of the parallax of Mu Cephei and of Struve 2486. The
meridian circle is to be employed in determining the positions of about
1,000 stars between—2° and—23° for Dr. Schoenfeld.

Parallaxes of southern stars.—Alpha Centauri, Beta Centauri, Epsilon
Indi and Sirius are being observed at the Cape of Good Hope for par-
allax. Two observers, Mr. Gill and Dr. Elkin, are making independent
series on the four stars. Dr. Elkin’s observations will be completed in
September, 1882, and Mr. Gill’s in March, 1883. The workis done with
Mr. Gill’s heliometer. Mr. Gill expresses his admiration for the new
heliometer just made by the Repsolds for the Yale College Observatory,
which he regards as the most perfect micrometric apparatus in the
world.

At the Cape of Good Hope much time was spent in 1881 on the de-
termination of the longitude Aden—Cape, which is now completed. The
Cape catalogue for 1850, containing 4,715 stars, will shortly be published.

Over 600 occultations, observed since 1854, have been reduced (by
means of Newcomb’s standard stars) and will be compared with Hansen’s
tables by Professor Neweomb.

Under date of May 11, Professor Stone, of Cincinnati, writes: ‘In ob-
serving one of our D. M. zones (—23° Dec.) a remarkable vacuity was
found in the region between 16> 17" and 165 25™ right ascension. In
this region there is no star brighter than 9.5 mag., and only one of that
magnitude.”

Stellar Spectra —From the report of the Astronomer Royal for 1882,
we extract the following account of his spectroscopic observations of
stars: ‘‘ During the twelve months ending May 20, 1882, the sun’s chro-
mosphere has been examined with the half-prism spectroscope on 36
days, and on every occasion prominences were seen. On one day a de-
tailed examination of the whole spectrum of the chromosphere was made
at 24 points on the sun’s limb. Several prominences have shown great
changes in the course of two or three minutes, and large displacements
or contortions of the bright lines, indicating very rapid motions of
approach or recession, have been noted. In particular, a prominence
examined on May 13, 1882, was observed to rise through a space of about
30’ in less than two minutes, being at the rate of about 110 miles a
second, whilst the C line showed a displacement towards the red gradu-
2856 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882.

ally increasing from 1.25 to 11.4 tenth meters, corresponding to a motion
of recession increasing in two minutes from 36 to 330 miles a second.
Thirteen sun-spots have been examined on 20 days with reference to
the broadening of the lines in their spectra. The strong black lines or
bands in the part of the spectrum between b and F, first noticed in the
spectrum of a spot on November 27, 1880, have been generally observed
to be present in the spectra of spots during the last twelve months,
besides several fine lines in the same region of the spectrum to which
there is nothing corresponding in the solar spectrum.

For the determination of motions of stars in the line of sight, 177
measures have been made of the displacement of the F line in the
spectra of 41 stars, 68 of the 0, line in 19 stars, and 9 of the 0b, line in
5 stars. Of the 61 stars observed, 15 had not previously been ex-
amined, and the total number of stars of which the motions have been
spectroscopically determined is now 106. In the case of three of the
stars observed in the last year, a dispersive power equivalent to that
given by sixteen prisms of 60° has been used. A comparison of the
successive determinations of the motion of Sirius indicates a progres-
sive diminution from about 22 miles a second, in 1877 and 1878, to about
7 miles a second or less this year, and as other stars do not show any-
thing similar, it appears likely that the change is due to the orbital
motion of Sirius. Further observations will, however, be required to
settle the point.”

THE SUN.

Solar radiation.—Prof. S. P. Langley has submitted to the Chief Sig-
nal Officer an abstract of the results of the Mount Whitney Expedition
to determine the amount of heat the sun sends to the earth; in techni-
cal terms, the solar constant. Mount Whitney, in Southern California,
was selected for the observation because it combined the advantages of
great elevation, extreme dryness of atmosphere, and abrupt rise from
the plain. The party of observation consisted of Capt. O. E. Michaelis,
United States Army; two non-commissioned officers of the Signal Serv-
ice, Six soldiers acting as an escort, four civilian assistants, and Professor
Langley. Systematic work did not commence until the last days of Au-
gust, 1881. Professor Langley summarizes the results obtained as fol-
lows:

“The approximate estimate of the solar constant is from 2.6 to 5.0
calories, by which is meant that the direct solar radiation before ab-
sorption by the earth’s atmosphere would in falling for one minute, nor-
mally, upon an area of a square centimeter, raise the temperature of
one gramme of water 29.6 or 3° centigrade. This implies its ability to
melt annually a crust of ice covering the whole earth over 150 fect thick.
This amount is one-half greater than the received value of Pouillet, and
greater than the latest determinations of Messrs. Crova and Violle.”

On the summit of Mount Whitney an ordinary black-bulb thermom-
ASTRONOMY. 287

eter, in vacuo, rose 130° Fahrenheit, while the temperature in a black-
ened copper vessel, covered by two sheets of common window glass, rose
above the boiling point. With such a vessel water could be boiled among
the snow-fields of Mount Whitney by the direct solar rays.

While the influence of the atmosphere is to shut off from the earth’s
surface a considerable portion of the sun’s heat by absorbing it, the
capacity of the air to store heat and prevent its radiation into space
serves to make the earth habitable. Otherwise, the surface temperature,
even under the tropics, would be lower than the lowest recorded degrees
of Arctic cold. Another effect of the selective absorption of the atmos-
plere is to change the apparent color of the sun. In a transparent at-
mosphere the now golden sun would appear blue.

Subsequently to this report, Professor Langley read a paper to the
Brit. Assoc. A. 8., giving an outline of the results he has reached. Itis
impossible to condense this paper, which is itself a highly condensed ac-
count of work extending over several years and covering a varied field.

Solar parallax from observation of minor planets.—Mr. David Gill,
H. M. astronomer at the Royal Observatory, Cape of Good Hope, has
arranged with a number of observatories in both hemispheres for corres-
ponding observations of the minor planets Victoria and Sappho about
the time of their oppositions in the present year. , Victoria, in oppo-
sition on August 24, will be distant from the earth 0.89 of the earth’s
mean distance from the sun; and Sappho, which comes into opposition
in Rk. A. on September 24, will be within 0.85; so that we have in each
case a favorable opportunity of applying the method of determining
the sun’s parallax which was advocated and also applied by Professor
Galle, the director of the observatory at Bresiau. In a communication
to the Astronomische Nachrichten, Mr. Gill states that the necessary
extra-meridian observations will be made in the southern hemisphere
at the Cape, Natal, Melbourne, and Rio de Janeiro, and in the north-
ern hemisphere at Dunsink (Dublin), Strasbourg, Berlin, Bothkamp,
Leipsic, Upsala, Moscow, Clinton, U.S., and probably at Kiel. From
the clearer skies of the southern hemisphere, he believes that a fully corre-
sponding number of observations will be secured there, notwithstanding
the smaller number of observatories, and he invites co-operation from
other establishments in the northern hemisphere on this ground. A
list of the proposed stars of comparison is given in his letter.

Maskelyne’s value of the solar parallae.—Several inquiries have been
lately made with regard to the authenticity of a value of the sun’s paral-
lax, attributed in many works to Maskelyne, the former Astronomer
Royal. These are answered as‘follows in Nature:

“This value (8.723) was deduced by Maskelyne in an application of
what he calls a new method of determining the effect of parallax on
transits of the inferior planets, and is given in an article which ap-
pears to have communicated to Vince, Plumian Professor of Astronomy
288 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882.

at Cambridge, who published it both in his large work, ‘A Com-
plete System of Astronomy,’ and in his elementary treatise intended
for the use of students in the university. We have not been able to
consult the earlier editions of these works to ascertain whether, as is
probably the case, the article was published in Maskelyne’s lifetime,
but it is found in Vol. I of the ‘System of Astronomy,’ which ap-
peared in 1814, and is dedicated to Maskelyne, and also in the fourth
edition of the ‘ Elements of Astronomy,’ Cambridge, 1816. The article
is entitled ‘A new method of computing the effect of parallax, in
accelerating or retarding the time of the beginning or end of a transit
of Venus or Mercury over the sun’s disk, by Nevil Maskelyne, D. D.,
F. kh. 8., and Astronomer Royal.’ After explaining his method and
how an approximate value may be corrected, as a numerical example he
compares the duration of the transit of Venus in 1769 as observed at
Wardhus and Otaheite, assuming as an approximate value of the mean
horizontal parallax 8/’.83 (nearly that found by Du Sejour), and con-
cludes: ‘ Hence the mean horizontal parallax of the sun=8/’.83 x (1 —
9.0121) = 8.72316.’ In the ‘Elements of Astronomy’ there is the
additional sentence: ‘ We assume, therefore, the mean horizontal paral-
lax of the sun = 8}’;’ but this does not appear in Vince’s larger work,
nor is it quite clear whether it is an addition of Maskelyne’s or his own.

‘¢ Lalande says the first edition of Vince’s ‘ Elements of Astronomy’
was published in 1790, and Vol. I of the larger work in 1797. Probably
some of our readers may be able to refer to the earlier editions.”

Solar eclipses.—The British scientific expedition sent to the banks of
the Upper Nile to make observations of the total eclipse of the sun,
June 17, was every way successful. The chief members of the party
were Norman Lockyer, Arthur Schuster, Mr. Woods, assistant, Mr.
Lawrence, and Mr. Black. The special correspondent to the London
Daily News summarizes the results as follows:

‘This eventful morning was the finest we have yet had, cool and with-
out a cloud. A great crowd of natives in picturesque costumes lined
the road and the hill between the camp and Sohag. The shore of the
Nile, except before the observatories, was packed with dahabiyehs
bringing the governors of the provinces and other notables to observe
the eclipse and do honor to the strangers. Thanks to Moktar Bey, in
charge of the camp, and a force of soldiery, there was no confusion.
Along a line of three hundred yards the French, English, and Italian
observers were left in undisturbed possession of tents and observatories.
Nevertheless, while the sky darkened and assumed a leaden hue, the
hills bounding the Nile bathed in purple, the great silence gave way,
and from the river and palm-shaded slope arose a shout of wonder and
fear, which reached its climax at the moment of the sun’s disappearance ;
nor ceased then, for in addition to the horror of an eclipse (which the
atives here in Africa attribute to the act of a dragon) there appeared
ASTRONOMY. 289

in the heavens on the right of the sun an unmistakable scimetar. The
eclipse had indeed revealed the existence of a new comet. Despite the
short totality (one minute and twelve seconds) many valuable results
have been obtained. I am permitted to send a copy of the collective
telegram sent to the various Governments, showing many new facts
touching the sun’s atmosphere, though matters have not become much
simpler, which means more work. The layer to which much absorption
has been ascribed seems vanishing from existence. The band K in the
spectrum of the corona fully explains the eclipse coloring.

“Among the results, the most satisfactory are photographs of the
corona, and a complete spectrum obtained by Schuster on Abney’s
plates. H and K are the most intense lines. A study of the red end
of the specitum of corona and protuberances was made by Tacchini.
A comet near the sun was a striking object; it was photographed, and
was observed by the naked eye. Bright lines were observed before and
after totality at different heights by Lockyer, with intensities differing
from Fraunhofer’s lines; by Lockyer and Trepied an absolute deter-
mination was made of the place of the coronal line 1474 in Kirchhofi’s
scale; by Thollon and Trepied the absence of dark lines from the coronal
spectrum was noted. Tacchini and Thollon, with very different disper-
sions, noted many bright lines inthe violet. Thollon observed the spec-
trum of the corona, and Schuster photographed it. The hydrogen and
coronal lines were studied in the grating spectroscope of Buisieux, and
with direct-vision prism by Thollon. Rings were observed in the grating
by Lockyer, of the first, second, and third order. The continuous spec-
trum is fainter than in 1878, stronger than in 1871. An intensification
of the absorption lines was observed in group B, at the moon’s edge,
by Trepied and Thollon. The whole spectrum, with blue lines on a con-
tinuous background, has been photographed. The prominences were
photographed with the prismatic camera (showing, of course, ring spec-
trum). Three photographs were taken of the corona. Thecomet close to
the sun was photographed with the prismatic and also with ordinary
cameras.”

Solar eclipse of May, 1883.—The following is a summary of a paper pre-
pared by Mr. OC. H. Rockwell, New York, and read at the meeting of the
American Association :

“The great astronomical event for 1883 will be the solar eclipse to
occur on the 6th day of May. At the points of greatest obscuration
the totality will last nearly six minutes. Unfortunately, the line of
totality is almost exclusively a water track, running from a point about
200 miles back of the east coast of Australia, going northeasterly to 9°
south latitude, 130° west longitude, thence toward the coast of South
America, terminating about 500 miles from the coast.

“The only island crossed by this line is a small coral reef called Car.
oline Island; this was discovered by Captain Nares, the Arctic ex:
plorer, in 1874, who gave its length at nine miles and width at one mile.

H. Mis. 26——19
290 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882.

“This point is in 10° south latitude, 150° west longitude, and is proba.
bly the only point where the eclipse could be observed. ‘To reach this
island a schooner or steamer would have to be chartered especially for
the voyage; the expense of such a vessel suitable for the purpose would
be about $6,000.”

It is now probable that this eclipse will be observed by an expedition
sent out under the auspices of the National Academy of Sciences and
the United States Coast Survey. The party will probably consist of
Professor Holden, of the Washburn Observatory, Professor Hastings,
of Johns Hopkins University, of Mr. Rockwell, and Prof. C.S. Peirce, of
the Coast Survey. Two photographers sent by the Royal Society of
London will also join the party. .

Solar spectrum.—A new map of the solar spectrum, containing a much
larger number of lines than are shown in Angstrom’s normal spec-
trum, has been published by Dr. H. C. Vogel, of Potsdam. Particular
attention has been given by Dr. Vogel to the characters as well as to
the positions of the lines.

Transit of Venus, December 6, 1882.—It is yet too soon to speak of the
success of the various observing parties sent out to observe this transit.
From reports already received, it appears that the observations were,
on the whole, quite successful, although the weather in Europe was bad.
Mr. Stone, director of the Radcliffe Observatory, regards the contact
observations as alone sufficient for the solution of the problem of the
solar parallax, and it is certain that enough photographs have been se-
cured by the United States Government parties and by the Lick Ob-
servatory party to insure a good determination by this means also.

The following are the stations of the different parties:

Cape of Good Hope:
Chief astronomer, Prof. S. Newcomb, U. 8. N.
Assistant astronomer, Lieut. T. L. Casey, jr., U. 8S. Engineers.
Additional assistant astronomer, Engineer J. H. L. Holcombe,
Us.
Photographer, Mr. Julius Ulke.
Santa Cruz, Patagonia:
Chief astronomer, Lieut. Samuel W. Very, U.S. N.
Assistant astronomer, Mr. O. B. Wheeler.
Photographer, Mr. William Bell.
Assistant photographer, Mr. Irvin Stanley.
New Zealand :
Chief astronomer, Mr. Edwin Smith, United States Coast and Geo-
detic Survey.
Assistant astronomer, Mr. Henry S. Pritchett.
Photographer, Mr. Augustus Story.
Assistant photographer, Mr. Gustav Theilkuhl.
ASTRONOMY. 291

Santiago de Chile:
Chief astronomer, Prof. Lewis Boss.
Assistant astronomer, Mr. Miles Rock, assistant astronomer,
United States Naval Observatory.
Photographer, Mr. Theo. C. Marcean.
Assistant photographer, Mr. Charles 8. Cudlip.

San Antonio, Tex.:

, Chief astronomer, Prof. Asaph Hall, U.S. N.
Assistant astronomer, Mr. R. 8S. Woodward.
Photographer, Mr. D. R. Holmes.

Assistant photographer, Mr. George H. Hurlbut.
Cedar Keys, Fla. :

Chief astronomer, Prof. J. R. Eastman, U.S. N.

Assistant astronomer, Lieut. John A. Norris, U.S. N.

Photographer, Mr. George Prince.

Assistant photographer, Mr. George F. Maxwell.
Fort Thorn, N. Mex.:

Chief astronomer, Prof. George Davidson, United States Coast and

Geodetic Survey.

Assistant astronomer, Mr. J. S. Lawson.

Second assistant astronomer, Mr. J. F. Pratt.

Photographer, Mr. D. C. Chapman.

Assistant photographer, Mr. T. 8. Tappan.

Washington, D. C.:
Chief astronomer, Prof. William Harkness, U.S. N.
Assistant, Mr. Joseph A. Rogers.
Assistant, Prof. A. H. Buchanan.
Assistant, Lieut. Comdr. C. H. Davis, U.S. N.

The following is the list of stations selected for the observation of
the transit of Venus by English parties, with the observers appointed to
each by the executive committee of the Royal Society, acting under the
authority of the treasury:

For retarded ingress and accelerated egress:
Jamaica.—Dr. Copeland, Captain Mackinlay, R. A., Mr. Maxwell
Hall.
Barbadoes.—Mr. Talmage, Lieutenant Thomson, R. A.
Bermuda.—Mr. J. Plummer, Lieutenant Neate, R. N.
(The Canadian Government will have three observers with six-inch
instruments, besides others with smaller telescopes. These observers
are acting in direct concert with the British expeditions.)

Accelerated ingress:
Cape Observatory.—Mr. David Gill (H. M. astronomer), Mr. Maclear,
second assistant.
Montague Road, Cape Colony.—Mr. W. H. Finlay (first assistant at
the Cape), Mr. Pett.
292 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882.

Accelerated ingress—Continued.
Aberdeen Road, Cape Colony.—Mr. Burton, Mr. C. M. Stevens.
Madagascar.—F ather Perry, Father Sidgreaves, Mr. Carlisle.
Durban, Natal.—A telescope has been provided by the colonists.
Mauritius.—Mr. Meldrum.

Retarded egress:
New Zealand.—Lieutenant-Colonel Tupman, R. M. A., Lieutenant

Coke, R. N.
Brisbane.—Captain Morris, R. E., Lieutenant Darwin, R. E., Me
Peek.

Melbourne.—Mr. Ellery and staff.
Sydney.—Mr. Russell and staff.

Professor Young has prepared the following table, which gives the
results of the observations of the transit of Venus at the time of writing.
The figures 1, 2, 3, 4 denote that the corresponding contacts were
observed; P denotes that photographs were made on the same plan as
those of the Government parties; P*, photographs on some different
plan ; h, heliometer measures; h*, measures for the same object as _ heli-
ometer measures, but made with a different instrument, more or less
completely equivalent; s, spectroscopic observations; p, photometric
observations; m, micrometer measures of the planet’s diameter:
1. Ottawa, Canada—1, 2, 3, 4.
2. Kingston, Canada—2, 3, 4.
3. Cambridge, Mass.—1, 2, 3, 4, s, p,m; several observers.
4, Providence, R. I.—2, P*, (23).
5. Amherst, Mass.—3, 4.
6. South Hadley, Mass.—3, 4, s.
7. Hartford, Conn.—2, 3, 4, h, m; German party.
8. New Haven, Ghee ae 2, 3, 4, P* (150), h, m; several observers.
9. Helderberg Mountain, N. Y. —1, 2.
10. West Point, N. eee 2, 3, 4.
11. Poughkeepsie, N. Y.—3, 4, P* (9).
12. Brooklyn, N. Y.—1, 2, 3.
13. Columbia College, New York City—2, 3, 4.
14. Western Union building, New York City—1, 2, 3, 4.
15. University City of New York, New York City—1, 2, 3, 4.
16. Elizabeth, N. J.—2, 3, 4.
ipl es w pete mies .J.—l, 2, 3, 4, P (188), s,m; several observers.
18. Philadelphia, Pa.—1, 2, 3, 4, ;
19. Easton, Pa.—1, 2, 3, “.
20. Allegheny, Pa.—1, 2 (?), 8, m.
21. Pittsburgh, Pa.—2, 3.
22. Wilmington, Del.—1, 2.
23. Baltimore, Md.—2, 3,4; several observers.
24. Annapolis, Md.—2, 3, 4.
ASTRONOMY. 293

25. Washington, D. C., Naval Observatory.—1, 2, 3, 4, P (53), m;
several observers.

26. Washington D. C., Coast Survey.—2, 3, 4; several observers.

27. Washington, D. C., Signal Service.—1, 2, 3, 4.

28. Charlottesville, Va.—2, 3, 4.

29. Aiken, S. C.—3, 4, h, m; German party.

30. St. Augustine, Fla.—1, 2, 3, 4, h*, P* (200), m; Trench party.

31. Cedar Keys, Fla.—2, 3, 4, P (180), m; Government party.

32. Chicago, IIL—1, 2; several observers.

33. Madison, Wis.—1, 2.

34, Northfield, Minn.—3, m.

30. Iowa City, Iowa—1, 2.

36. Ann Arbor, Mich.—4, m.

37. San Antonio, Tex.—3, 4, P (204), m; Government party.

38. San Antonio, Tex.—3, 4, h*,m,; Belgian party.

39. Fort Selden, N. Mex.—1, 2, 3, 4, P (216), m; Government party.

Potsdam, Prussia—1, 2, P*, s, m.

Jamaica—l, 2, 3, 4.

Puebla, Mexico—1, 2, 3, 4, h*; French party.

Chapultepec, Mexico—No contacts; P* (13).

Cape Town, South Africa—l, 2, P; (?) American Government party.

Durban, South Africa—l, 2.

Tasmania—3, 4, P; (?) American Government party.

Melbourne, Australia—d, 4, P* (33).

New Zealand-—3, 4, P (236); American Government party.

Santiago, Chili—Completely successful; P; (?) American Government
party.

Santiago, Chili—Completely successful; h*, m; Belgian party.

COMETS.

Comet-sceking.—That the search for comets may be systematic and
as general as possible in this country, the following provisional ar-
rangements have been suggested by the Science Observer, and almost
universally commended by observers interested in the study of comets:

‘1. It is proposed to divide the sky into zones of declination, of which
each observer has selected or been allotted one or more.

“9. Each observer has expressed his intention to sweep carefully once
at least during each month the region selected by him, and some will
sweep their zones several times each month. It is to be clearly under-
stood that no observer is in any way confined to his zone, but is allowed
to sweep anywhere, according to his judgment or circumstances.

“3. As there are at present in the country three observers who are
constantly engaged in comet-hunting as their principal work, it is pro-
posed to secure the complete covering of the sky once during each
month by these observers, they having selected the following regions:
294 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882.

Swift, + 90° to + 45°; Brooks, + 45° to + 15°, and Barnard, + 15°
to — 45°,

“4, To the other observers, who, from college duties or other regular
work, can devote a varying part only of their time to comet-seeking,
smaller zones have been allotted, as follows : Tiffany, + 45° to + 309;
Wendell, + 30° to + 15°; Sharpless, + 15° to 0°; Larkin, 0° to— 159,
and Rebasz, — 15° to — 459,

‘5. Other observers will keep a record of their observations, but can-
not agree to sweep regularly enough to take charge of a zone.

“6, This arrangement of zones secures the sweeping of the sky twice

during each month, and their relation to each other provides, as well °

as possible at present, that the same storm, unless very extensive, will
not be likely to interfere with both observers in the same region at the
same time.

“7, One of the important results of an organization will be the accu-
mulation of data concerning comets and comet-seeking. It has ac-
cordingly been agreed upon by all observers that records of their
work will be kept. These will include a statement of the weather, the
clearness of the sky, the time spent in search, the region covered, and
any matters of general interest that may be of value. Blanks will be
furnished to each observer, including a duplicate set for his own use,
and these blanks, being returned on the first of each month, will be
regularly published in such detail as may be necessary in the Science
Observer.”

Daylight observations of Wells’ comet.—At the Dudley Observatory,
Albany, this comet was observed on the meridian as early as June 5,
just before noon, and again on June 11 and 12,1882. The aperture
of the object-glass of the transit-circie is 8 inches; the focal length of
the telescope 10 feet. A detailed description, with engraving of the
instrument with which these notable observations were made, will be
found in Vol. I of the Annals of the Dudley Observatory. On June 5
the comet was not perceived until forty seconds after transit, and was
observed with difficulty on a single wire, but the positions obtained on
the subsequent dates were considered very satisfactory. The true nu-
cleus was seen at the observation of June 11, made about sixteen hours
after the perihelion passage, and the estimated diameter of the dise
was 0.75. The nebulosity of the coma was uniform and faint, about
10” in diameter. It is stated that ‘while the nucleus was observed
for position, the coma was scarcely noticed at all.” The atmospheric
conditions on this day were such as are well known to conduce to easy

‘vision of objects in daylight. ‘The sky was sparsely covered with
cumulus clouds, while the intermediate clear spaces were exceedingly
transparent.” On June 12 the nebulosity had increased in brightness,
but the image was very unsteady, and “either for that reason, or be-
cause of the increased brightness of the nebulous screen, the nucleus
ploper could not be seen.”
ASTRONOMY. 295

We are not aware that any complete observation of a comet on the
meridian at noonday has been made since the year 1744. The grand
comet in the early part of that year, first remarked by Klinkenberg
at Harlem on December 9, 1743, attained an extraordinary degree of
brilliancy towards the end of February. We find Bliss writing on
February 12 (O. 8.) to Lord Macclesfield, who had fitted up an observa-
tory at Shirburn Castle, thus: “The comet appeared so very bright
last night, equaling the light of Venus, that Dr. Bradley agrees that
it may be seen on the meridian, and being engaged himself, has desired
me to request your lordship to try to observe it. The elements which
he left at ShirBurn appear, to our last night’s and former observations,
to give the place true within 2’ of longitude and latitude.” As a mat-
ter of fact the comet was observed on the meridian near noon at Shir-
burn on the 28th and 25th of February, and at Greenwich on the 29th;
these observations will be found reduced in Mr. Hind’s paper -on the
comet of 1744. (Astron. Nach., vol. XXVIt.)

Photometric observations of Wells’ Comet.—Exact photometric observa-
tions of comets have been rare; but Dr. Muller, of Potsdam, has
succeeded in obtaining a good series of observations of Comet Wells
with a Zollner’s photometer, attached to one of Steinheil’s refractors.
Having found considerable difficulty in measuring the brightness of a
comet with this photometer, owing to the great difference in appearance
between the comet and the artificial stars, he removed the disk that
bore them and substituted an artificial nebula; and the observations
from April 21 to May 19, 1882, were conducted with this latter. But
as the brightness of the comet increased he reverted to the original
disk. Thus his observations form two series which are not exactly ,
comparable. The entire series of observations, which were obtained on
21 days, from April 21 to June 6, showed that the comet increased in
brightness much more rapidly than was to be expected from theoretical
considerations and calculations, so that it must be concluded that a
very remarkable development of the comet’s own light took place. The
time when this growth of intensity commenced was in the latter half of
May, about the time that the bright lines of sodium were discovered in
the spectrum. The photometric observations by themselves would have
justified the conclusion that in the middle of May extraordinary changes
took place in the physical condition of the comet, and this conclusion
was thus fully confirmed by the revelations of the spectroscope. From
the comparision of the nucleus of the comet with the stars D. M. 499,
No. 3062, and D. M. 49°, No. 3059, it was found that the nucleus of the
comet was equal in brightness to a star of the third magnitude on
June 6, whilst on May 19 it only equaled one of the eighth or ninth.

Daylight observations of comet 1882 a.—Prof. Julius Schmidt writes
to the Astronomische Nachrichten that on June, 10, after 3 p. m., in an
exceptionally clear sky at Athens, he observed the comet, though with
difficulty, in the 6-foot retlector of that observatory.
296 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1892.

The great comet of 1852.—It is very seldom that any discovery unites
in itself so many and such important points of interest as has been the
case with the great comet now engaging so much attention. The report
of the discovery by M. Crnls of a new naked-eye comet was in itself
enough toarouse akeen degree of interest; foras three such objects
had already been observed within the last twelve months, that a f.urth
should follow in such quick succession was quite an unprecedented
event. M. Cruls’ discovery had scarcely been published in England
before a yet more unusual observation was made. Mr. Common, of
Ealing, who ever since the accidental discovery of the comet “Tewtik,”
during the total eclipse of May 16 last, had persistently examined the
neighborhood of the sun with what might well have appeared to be the
forlorn hope of detecting some comet wandering there, was at length
rewarded, on Sunday, September 17, by the sight of a splendid comet
close to the sun, of which he obtained observations.

In the extreme south of Europe more favorable conditions prevailed;
and the comet was seen on September 18 at a large number of places
in Italy, Spain, and Algeria in full daylight, when only 4° from the
sun. And, indeed, Mr. Common was not the only person who wes
fortunate enough to see it on September 17, before perihelion; for a
dispatch from Reus, near Tarragona, announced that there the inhabit-
ants were astonished to see a comet close to the sun, so that, though
only 1°.5 distant from it, it was bright enough to catch the eye of casual
gazers. Indeed, it was so bright that it could be seen even through
light cloud. Its tail could readily be detected by means of an opera-
glass furnished with a dark glass. On the following day, however, M.
Thollon, at Nice, was able to detect some portion of the tail without
even this assistance, for he says: ‘The coma and part of the tail visi-
ble to the naked eye were nearly 20’ in length. Their outer contour
took the shape of a half-ellipse of eccentricity about 4, aud the fairly
large and very brilliant nucleus occupied a position intermediate be-
tween the apex and the focus.”

The same cloud-bank which baffled English observers on this and the
following days covered the north of France likewise, and in despair of
its breaking up, M. de Fonvielle resolved to rise above it, and on Friday,
September 22, prepared for a balloon ascent. Fearing, however, that
his own sight was not sufficiently good, he resigned his place in the car
to M. Maurice Mallet, whom he duly instructed as to the observations
to be obtained. The small dimensions of the ear greatly hampered the
adventurous astronomer, who, however, succeeded in making a sketch,
and in obtaining a rough estimation of the distance from the sun and
position-angle of the comet.

The cloudy weather rendered it difficult to obtain sufficient observa-
tions to form an orbit; but Mr. 8S. C. Chandler, jr., of Harvard College, at
ASTRONOMY. PAST)
length succeeded in deducing approximate elements, which showed a
remarkable resemblance to those of comet I, 1880, and I, 1843.

Per. pass. = 1882, September, 17.38, G. M. T.
Long. (Per.—node) = 60° 45’)

Hone. nodes...) = 342 29 . Mean equinox, 1582.0.
Inclination ...... = 140 17 §
|b Oa = 7.54407.

The resemblance of the orbit of the great comet of 1880 to that of
the still finer one of 1843 had attracted the earnest attention of astrono-
mers at the time, and most had been led to consider them one and the
same body.

And now the appearance of a third magnificent object on the same,
or nearly the same, track revived the discussion which took place in
1880. Then three leading theories had been started.

The first, of least probability and but little received, saw in the comet
of 1843 a return of the comet of 1668, and supposing the comet of 1702
to have been another return of the same object, considered that we had
here a comet with a period of about 35 years, which had been apparently
slowly increased to one of 37 years. But this theory rested on but very
slender foundations; and,if true, it is obvious that our present visitor
can claim no identity with his predecessors in the same path. Professor
Weiss, of Vienna, holding a somewhat similar view, ascribed to the comet
a constant period of about thirty-seven years, and identified it with
those of 1106, 1179, 1363, 1511, and 1695, but not with that of 1668.

A second theory suggested that the comets of 1843 and 1880 might
now be independent comets traveling on the same track, the original
parent comet having suffered disruption at some much earlier visit, and
the fragments having become so widely separated that an interval of
thirty-seven years now takes place between their perihelion passages.
In any case it was felt that the hypothesis that so brilliant an object
could have frequently returned without any observation having been
made of it was quite incredible.

A third and more popular theory regarded, indeed, the comets of
1668, 1843, and 1880 as one and the same object, but supposed that its
period was gradually being shortened through the resistance experi-
enced by the comet whilst passing through the solar atmosphere at
perihelion. M. Meyer went further back, and regarded Aristotle’s comet,
BL. C. 371, as the next earlier appearance to that of 1668. This theory
seemed to receive strong confirmation by the apparition of the present
comet, and further information seemed to lend it greater force.

The great comet which had borne the names of Thollon, Common, and
Cruls, who had each in turn discovered it independently, now proved
to have been still earlier discovered by Mr. Finlay, first assistant at
the Cape Observatory, who remarked it at five o’clock in the morning
298 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882.

of September 8, and who obtained the following place for it on the fol-
lowing day:

Cape mean time. ReAe Decl.

September 8, 175 23™ 58s 144° 59! 51/.4 —0° 45/ 30/.0

Mr. Finlay had been more fortunate than the subsequent discoveiers,
not only in thus anticipating them by several days, but in being able
to retain his hold on the comet right up to its conjunction with the
sun; and Mr. Gill was able to inform the Astronomer Royal that, ‘on
Sunday, September 17, the comet was followed by two observers with
separate instruments, right up to the sun’s limb, where it suddenly
disappeared at 4 50™ 588 Cape mean time.” This observation is wholly
unprecedented in the history of astronomy, and proved most valuable as
showing how exceedingly unsubstantial the comet was, for the stn’s bril-
lianey could not, as some have supposed, account for the disappearance.
Had it been so bright as to have become invisible, neither bright nor
dark. in the center of the sun’s disk, it would have appeared as a bright
object when seen against the comparatively dull background of the
regions near the limb. Had it harmonized witb the degree of splendor
of the limb, it wouid have looked dark on the disk. There was not,
therefore, enough solid matter, or that matter was not sufficiently aggre-
gated, for it to appear as a spot or a cloud, bright or dark, whilst in
transit.

Mr. Hind had meanwhile computed an orbit, which compares as fol-
lows with those which Mr. Tebbutt obtained for the 1880 comet, and
those of Professor Plantamour for the comet of 1845:

Comet 1843. Comet 1880. Comet 1882.

UGies Tap Gisecdpciéc sccon co cca DSO SOG DnE So criqUdEcSCarcce oe See eeeae OD Lea LOO
-| 278° 18! ° 3.0 | 2779 22/ 53/4 * 276° 14’ 36”
0 51 4.11] 358. 22 48.6 *346 6 58
35 45 39 .0 36 41 41.9 *37 58 59

0. 005807 0. 0067243 0. 0080656
Retrograde. Retrograde. | Retrograde.

—z
-

; * App. eq., Sept. 25.
Sun’s radius 0. 004664 (sun’s mean distance = 1).

But this orbit would give the comet’s distance from the center of the
sun at the time of Dr. Gill’s remarkable observation, on September 17, as
only 10/.9; that is to say, it should have been far on the disk, and fully
5’ from the limb at the time when it was actually seen to be only just
entering the limb. Mr. Hind cannot think this discrepancy due to
faults in the elements, for they represent the middle position within 1’,
and the first observation was taken only twenty hours after the one at
the Cape with which the elements are in so little accord. There is,
therefore, strong reason to believe that the comet’s speed received con-
siderable alteration whilst in the immediate neighborhood of the sun,
and Mr. Hind suggests the probability of its return in October, 1883.
ASTRONOMY. 299

Mr. Chandler, using the above-mentioned Dun-Echt observation,
with one made at Washington, September 23, and Cambridge, United
States, September 30, found that a parabolic orbit gave considerable
deviations in the middle place, and deduced thirefore the following
elliptic elements. The elliptic elements obtained by Professor Planta-
mour, for the comet of 1843, and by M. Meyer, for that of L880, are
given for comparision:

Comet 1843. Comet 1880. Comet 1882.
LEGS TER aS So Ho gS Se DESC RUSTE ER CRBNO CEES aac aSSooaeecosanas Sa lnesesnenee -- |Sept.17,1880,G. M. T.
{OL esBsebiecc cos cect aersstonedsacg sHoce Re aeenO saat 355° 46’ 48.4 | 356° 16’ 43”. 2 346° 51! 58"
QWrc caged coop sedssnoanpbecsoocesnocce sosocsrcoaec 77 43 57 .9! 77 53 55 .9 71 39 «#3
Ce meets cision nis ses orate tletnielela'scite <= ainialcisea seers 143. 1 31.2) 143 7 46.8 142 35 51
IW SOM Saker OSes SOCor COSTCO SOE NC er eECOSnS ABLE 1880. 0 1880. 0 1882. 0
ILG Ya Te Sete nO coer OnCe GU EGHE bor DEAE CREE anonAcce 7. 8394780 7. 7720095 7. 945416
@ aoc gece go obo age suas sosbocenesesocedarsordises 0.999117 0. 999467 0. 997898
Ge pape oocsbsseonose coceoeoosandessscces cosas 7. 82165 11. 05690 4. 17535
1TH 5 on ooacus cho cosenri cosa coacuatbasssnscocs 21.875 years. 36. 91 years. 8. 532 years.

A comparision of the orbit with whatever observations were avail-
able seemed to Mr. Chandler to confirm the periodical nature of the
comet, although further observations will be necessary to fix the period
with precision.

The physical appearance of the comet which, like that of 1843, and
unlike that of 1880, showed at first a decided nucleus, together with
the above intimation of a period very considerably greater than that
of the internal from 18350, January 27, the date of perihelion of the
1580 comet, suggest that perhaps the 1843 comet suffered disintegration
when at its nearest approach, and that the 1880 comet was a portion ot
its less condensed material, whilst the body of the comet, with the prin-
cipal nucleus, suffering less retardation than the separated part, has
taken two and a half years longer to perform a revolution. The re-
markable discovery made by Professor Schmidt, of Athens, on October
8, of a second comet only 4° 8S. W. of the great comet, and having the
same motion, would seem rather to confirm this view.

The spectrosvopic observations of the comet have only been less in-
teresting than the questions of its orbit and identity. M. Tholion, who
examined its spectruin on September 18, with a Steinheil spectroscope,
having one prism of 60° of dense flint, in conjunction with a horizontal
telescope of 9 inches aperture, into which the light of the comet was
reflected by means of a siderostat, gives the following description of it:

“ Although working in full daylight, the spectrum of the comet was
very bright; its leading characteristic was the presence of the bright
lines of sodium. We at once saw in the field of the instrument a tolera-
bly distinet spectrum, due to the scattered light of our atmosphere, in
which the dark Fraunhofer lines could be distinguished. Upon the
background of this spectrum a narrow and much more brilliant contin-
uous spectrum, given by the nucleus of the comet, was seen clearly de-
tached. From the height of the spectrum we estimated the apparent
300 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882.

diameter of the nucleus as about 15”. This spectrum stretched very
far into the violet. The bright lines of sodium D, and D, were given
at the same time both by the nucleus and by the neighboring regions:
From their length we estimated the apparent diameter of the part of
the comet which displayed them at 1./5. They were neither diffused
nor broadened, but narrow and perfectly separated, and exceedingly
bright, especially in the spectrum of the nucleus. They were nearly of
the same brilliancy, however, the most refrangible seemed a little the
brighter, and they were, in short, exactly like the lines given by a flame
moderately charged with sodium, both in brightness and in their essen-
tial characteristics. Of their identity there can be doubt, for besides
the characteristics which we have just pointed out, we compared their
positions with those of the Fraunhofer lines D; and Dy, given by the spec-
trum of the diffused daylight. We ascertained that the bright lines of
the comet were not exactly superposed on the Fraunhofer lines, but
were both displaced towards the red by a very small amount, the same
in each case, equal perhaps to $ or 1 of the interval between D, and D).
We therefore concluded that the comet was traveling away from the
earth at that moment. We intended to measure this displacement the
next day, and prepared a more powerful spectroscope for this purpose;
but the state of the sky did not give us the opportunity. No part of
the comet showed us the bands of carbon, nor any band or line other
than those of sodium, perhaps on account of the diffused light, which
would be able to mask bands of small brilliancy.

“The singular analogy between the spectrum of this comet and that
of comet Wells, observed some months ago, will doubtless appear the
more remarkable, as preceding comets have never shown the lines of
sodium.”

But as the comet has receded from the sun, the ordinary cometary
hydrocarbon bands have made their appearance, and the ordinary yel-
low, green, and blue bands had become very conspicuous on October
1, whilst the sodium lines were very much fainter. M. Ricco, at Palermo,
observing up to October 11, found the spectrum of the tail perfectly con-
tinuous, and could trace it right tothe end. The three hydrocarbon
bands were only given by the nucleus and a region of some 5/ radius
nound it.

These changes in the spectrum, as the comet recedes from perihelion,
combined with the reverse changes witnessed in that of comet Wells
as it approached it, seem to render it not unlikely that sodium would
appear in the spectrum of any comet which should approach the sun
sufficiently nearly; that it is, in fact, an indication of excessively high
temperature, as the hydrocarbon bands are of one not quite so great. An
intermediate spectrum of which no definite details have yet been sup-
plied seems to have been observed at Dun-Echt and elsewhere. M.
Ricco speaks of having seen many lines up to September 27, a band in
the red, a line in the yellow near and after D,, two others in the green,
ASTRONOMY. 30k

and an enlargement of the continuous spectrum in the green and blue,
but was able to make no measures. Had determinations of the posi-
tions of these lines been possible, we might have had much very inter-
esting information.

The tail of the comet has throughout resembled that of the 1843 comet,
it being nearly straight and very brilliant. M. Cruls represents it
as being about 30° long about ten days after perihelion. M. Ricco
gives its breadth as varying on different days from 1° 48/ to 2° 23/,
The southern edge has appeared stronger and brighter than the north-
ern, sometimes remarkably so, and, though nearly straight, it is slightly
convex towards the south. The nucleus, circular at first, has shown a
strong tendency to lengthen, and M. Ricco has observed it as double.

Astronomers will continue to seize on every possible opportunity of
watching this most remarkable and interesting object as long as it re-
mains within our view, even without the stimulus afforded by the ex-
pectation of seeing it plunge into the sun, as it has been confidently
prophesied it will shortly do. If it should turn out as here suggested, that
the present is but its second return, in modern times at least, we may
have to wait longer for the final catastrophe than is perhaps generally
expected; and the present behavior of the comet would perhaps seem to
indicate that its fate will be accomplished rather by a gradual disinte-
gration than by a sudden headlong plunge into the solar orb.—Obserra-
tory, 1882, November.

The comet of May 17, 1882.—M. Trépied, in an account of his observa-
tions made in Egypt during the total solar eclipse of May 17, which was
communicated to the Academy of Sciences on the 19th instant, has the
following interesting note:

“Towards the middle of totality, I perceived to the right of the sun,
a streak of light, slightly curved at the lower part, having a singular
appearance and in evident discordance with the rest of the corona. I
did not for an instant suppose that it could bea comet, and only recog-
nized its nature an hour after the eclipse on comparing my sketch with
one of the photographs obtained by Dr. Schuster. That photograph
plainly showed the nucleus at a distance from the edge of the sun a
little greater than the diameter of that body; the direction of the tail
agreed well with what I had drawn, but I had stopped the streak at
much too short a distance from the edge. I did not, however, believe
that it would be allowable for me to change anything in my drawing.”

The sketch referred to is copied in the Comptes rendus of the above
sitting ofthe Academy. M. Trépied further remarks:

‘‘The brightness of the comet appeared to me the same as that of the
external parts of the corona.”

The position of the observing station, as provisionally determined by
M. Trépied, is in longitude 1” 57™ 408 east of Paris, and latitude 269°
33/ 21’, where the middle of totality occurred at 8" 31™ 53° a. m. local
neantime. M.Trépied saysin the week following the eclipse he searched
a2 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882.

for the comet many times before sunrise and after sunset, but without
detecting it.

The comet has been sought for elsewhere, though unfortunately with-
out success.

The refractive power of comets —The great comet 1881, III, passed
near to faint stars on several occasions, so near that the stars were
certainly shining through the cometic substance. During three such
opportunities, Dr. Meyer, at the Geneva Observatory, made a series of
micrometer measures on the relative positions of the star and the
comet’s nucleus. This last was sharp and well defined like a star.

The preliminary reduction of these measures showed that the light
of the star suffered a refraction in its passage through the comet’s head.
The whole question of such a refraction was examined by M. Cellerier
(Archives des Sciences, etc., de Geneve, October, 1882) under the sup-
position of a variable density to the cometic matter, which was further
supposed to act like a true gas. The theoretical solution of the prob-
lem is given ina simple form. Dr. Meyer has applied the theory to the
cases in hand, and obtains from the.three stars the following vaiues of
é, Which is the refractive power of the cometic matter (supposed gaseous):

29 June, 1882, e=0.00000916; 14/3 = d,.
13 July, 1882, e=0.00000299; 25.3 = dp.
1 August, 1882, e = 0.00000317; 24.6 = d3.

The numbers d), d2, d;, are the shortest distances of the stars from
the comet’s nucleus, reduced to what they would have been if seen all
from a distance 1. Supposing the density of the gas to be proportional
to the square of the distance, and the refractive power of the gas to be
directly proportional to the density, the three values of e abeve can be
reduced to the following three numbers which express (on this hypoth-
esis) three different determinations of the refractive power of the gay
at a distance of 14/.3 = 102,000 kilometers.

29 June, é =0.00000916.
13 July, = 0.00000936,
1 August, = 0.00000938.

Dr. Meyer epitomizes his results as follows:

‘«The substance which composed the head of comet 1881, III, behaved
optically like a gas, and its refractive power at a distance of 102,000
kilometers from the head was 0.0000093. This refractive power, and
hence the density of the gas itself, varied as the square of the distance
from the comet’s nucleus.” :

Professor Bredichin has issued the first part of Vol. vim of Annales
de 0 Observatoire de Moscou, which, in addition to meridian observations,
contains a continuation of his researches upon the tails of comets, the
present publication including the comets 1881 ) and ¢, and the fourth
or great comet of 1825. Professor Bredichin has reprinted the long
series of physical observations on the latter body made by Dunlop at
ASTRONOMY. 303

Paramatta, N. 8. W., which originally appeared in Brewster’s Edinburgh
Journal of Science, 1827, and which have been a good deal overlooked,
that periodical, on the Continent at least, not being easy of access,
Dunlop’s drawings are reproduced, and there are several figures of the
two bright comets of 1881. With regard to his investigations generally,
Professor Bredichin concludes:

‘““My researches on all the comets of which I have been able to find
observations in astronomical literature (385 comets), place me now in a
condition to calculate in advance, for each great comet that appears,
the positions and the figure of its tails of all three types. It is evident
that the relative amount of matter in tails of different types cannot be
determined in advance, and, consequently, observation alone can show
us the relative brightness of the types and the possible absence of one
or another of them. But, in every case, the positions and the general
form of such of the tails as become visible will be in accord with the
positions and figure calculated beforehand.”

PLANETS.

Vulcan.—In the report of the director of the Washburn Observatory
for 1882, is given an account of experiments with the Watson Solar
Observatory. This we givein full, as it probably will not be published
elsewhere, and on account of the general interest in the success of this
experiment.

The solar observatory was devised for the purpose of seeing a planet.
or stars in the daytime.

It consists essentially of a covered cellar large enough to contain an
observer and a six-inch telescope. From the north wall of this cellar
a tube 12 inches in diameter and 55 feet long is directed to the north
pole. At the upper (north) end of this tube a heliostat, or mirror
driven by clock-work, is to be placed. The idea is that the images of
stars will be reflected down the tube by the mirror and seen by an ob-
server in the cellar through the telescope. When I took charge of this
observatory the building was entirely incomplete, and no instruments
were available for trying the experiment. Ihave borrowed from Profes-
sor Langley, director of the Allegheny Observatory, a heliostat suitable
for the purpose, and the regents of the university have bought from
Mr. Burnham, of Chicago, his six-inch Clark telescope; and the build-
ing has been completed. Six weeks have been spent in thoroughly try-
ing the experiment. The trial is now concluded, and the result is that
the solar observatory is not suitable for showing stars as faint as the
third magnitude in the daytime, even when they are distant from the sun.

Therefore there is no use in proceeding further with this means in
the search for Vulcan, which was estimated by Professor Watson to be of
the four-and-a-half magnitude, and which, from the nature of the case,
must always be near the sun. The details of the experiment are given
in the following extract from the annual report:
304 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882.

“The solar observatory was destined by Professor Watson for two pur-
poses: Tirst, spectroscopic and photographic observations of the sun
itself; and, second, for observations of the immediate neighborhood of
the sun for the detection of a planet (Vulcan) interior to Mereury.

“The magnitudeoft Vulcan was estimated by Professor Watson at four
and one half, that is, it has a light about one-twentieth as brilliant as that
of an average first-magnitude star—Alpha Lyre, for example. If seen
at all, it must be seen in the daytime, and close to the sun.

“During the months of June and July experiments were made to de-
termine the fitness of the observatory for the detection of Vulcan. In
these experiments the six-inch telescope bought by your Board from Mr.
3urnham was mounted in the cellar of the solar observatory on June S—
its objective and eyepiece having been carefully adjusted previously. To
get an idea of the advantage gained by the inclined tube of the solar
observatory I reduced the aperture of the fifteen-inch telescope in tbe
dome to six inches, and put on an eyepiece similar to that used on the
small refractor. Both telescopes were then pointed to the north pole,
Two observers, one at each telescope, noted times of the first appear-
ance of the small stars about the north pole as evening twilight dis-
appeared. A map had been prepared previously giving these stars. If
the fifty-five-foot deweap gave a material advantage, then these stars
should have been first seen with the solar observatory telescope. In
fact, they were first seen by this, but only by about two minutes on the
average. This experiment was tried on June 8, 11, and 12.

‘The excellent heliostat lent by Dr. S. P. Langley, director of the
Allegheny Observatory, was placed on its pier June 12, and adjusted.
This instrument was exactly fitted for the purpose, and was in perfect
order.

‘¢ Observations were made to find stars in the daytime every clear day
between Jnne 15 and July 12, without result. The place in the sky to
which the heliostat mirror was pointed was fixed by setting on the sun
at a given hour; and the fact that this setting was not changed by ac-
cident was established by observing the position of a small pointer
which was added to the heliostat.

‘The latter trials were made with a heliostat mirror, set for the place
of the brightest star in the Pleiades, and on three days this group was
looked for about the time of its passing the meridian. Forty or fifty
minutes were thus spent daily.

‘“ There must have been in the field of the telescope (30 degrecs) the fol-
lowing stars:

‘‘ ta Tauri—3.4 mag. (twice as bright as Vulcan).

“b Pleiadum—4.5 mag. (as bright as Vulcan).

““d Pleiadam—5 mag. (fainter than Vulcan).

“Ff Pleiadam—4.5 mag. (as bright as Vulcan).

“fh Pleiadum—5.6 mag. (fainter than Vulcan).

‘* At this time the sun was some 50 degrees east of the Pleiades. No
stars were seen at any time. The position of the mirror for the Pleiades
was verified by finding a group of stars at night-time in the predicted
place. The original setting was made through the sun.

‘‘T am satisfied, therefore, that there is no use in prosecuting this par-
ticular experiment further. The instruinents employed were as perfect
as possible. Every conceivable precaution was taken, and it was shown
that this apparatus was not suitable for seeing stars of the magnitude
of Vulcan, even distant from the sun. It would, therefore, be a waste
of time to look for such stars close to the sun.

“Jt is to be noticed that no evidence has been collected in regard to
ASTRONOMY. 305

the existence or non-existence of Vulcan. It has simply been shown
that this device is not suitable for detecting such a planet.

“T may mention that, during the summer of 1881, this same experi-
ment was tried by Dr. Langley, with far more satisfactory arrangements
than those of the solar observatory, and that it was a failure with him
also, and that Professor Harrington, of Ann Arbor Observatory, also
failed to find any material advantage with a (horizontal) tube 150 feet
long.” e

The Earth.—We extract from the Academy the following review (by
G. F. Rodwell) of an important book entitled The Physics of the Earth’s
Crust, by the Rev. Osmond Fisher:

“‘The author in twenty-one chapters discusses fue principal facts con-
nected with the interior heat of the earth, the elevations and depres-
sions of its surface, and the causes and effects of volcanic action. He
shows that the rate of increase of temperature, as the distance beneath
the earth’s surface is augmented, is, on the whole, an equable one, and
may be taken to average about 1° F. for every fifty-one feet (misprinted
degrees, p. 267) of descent. And thus at a depth of about thirty miles
all known rocks would be in a state of fusion. As to the condition of
the interior of the earth, we are first led to a discussion of the density.
The surface density is between 2.56 and 2.75, while the mean density
of the whole earth is 5.5. Thus the density considerably increases as
we approach the center of the earth. Everything points to the conclu-
sion that the earth has once been in a molten condition; the main ques-
tion for consideration is whether it is still molten within, or whether
this condition has passed away, and itis now solid. It has been thought,
by some, however, that the interior of the earth may be ‘ potentially hot’
—that is to say, really solid, on account of the enormous pressure to
which it is subjected, but ready to become fluid at any moment when
the pressure is diminished or removed. Having discussed the argu-
ments of Hopkins and of Sir William Thomson, the author asserts that
the requisite great rigidity which the earth must possess in order to en-
able it to resist the deforming influence of the attraction of the sun and
moon does not require that the earth should be absolutely solid from the
center to the circumference. A rigid nucleus nearly approaching the
size of the whole globe, covered by a fluid substratum of no great thick-
ness in comparison with the radius, with an outer crust of less density
floating upon it, would meet the difficulty. ‘This is the supposition,’
says the author, ‘as to the condition of the earth, which appears, on
the whole, to satisfy best the requirements both of geology and of phys-
ics.’ Thus the solid nucleus would owe its solidity to the great super-
incumbent pressure, while the outer crust would owe its solidity to hav-
ing become cool through radiation, while the fluid substratum would re-
main in that condition because it would not be submitted to sufficient
pressure to render it solid, while it would retain sufficient heat to render

it molten. As to the density, von Waltershausen has calculated that
H. Mis. 26——20
306 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882.

the density at the center of the earth is 9.59 under a pressure of 2,500,000
atmospheres, and he thinks it probable that the magma beneath the
outer crust consists of felspathic materials, passing lower down into au-
gitic, and finally, at the center, into a magnetic magma.

‘‘The next problem to be discussed relates to the manner in which
the heat and the gravitation of the earth have produced the elevations
antl depressions,and puckerings of the surface. To explain this it is
generally thought that, as the cooling of the earth proceeded, the
interior retreated from the solidified crust, and that the latter became
crumpled and contorted by the lateral pressure. The autbor has cal-
culated that the pressure available for this purpose would be equal to
that of a column of rock of the surface density, having the same section
as the stratum, and 2,000 miles in length—a pressure equal to 830,200
tons on the square foot, and more than sufficient to perform the opera-
tions assigned to it.

‘‘ Voleanic eruptions probably arise from liquid masses of the substra-
tum gaining access to the surface, and we must conceive that the water
which accompanies all volcanic phenomena must be present in the mag-
ma of the substratum. ‘We may look upon the state of igneoaqueous
solution,’ observes the author, ‘as one in which the water-substance is
in a gaseous state, and the combination between the water-substance
and the rock is probably of that kind which has been termed “ occlusion”
of gas by a liquid. An examination of the amount of contraction which
would have produced the existing inequalities of the earth’s surface
shows that the ocean basins are not the result solely of depressions in
the upper surface only of a crust of uniform density, but that they are
due to the greater density and general depression of the suboceanic
crust.’

“¢ According to the author, voleanic energy is the cause of the compres-
sion of the earth’s crust. Thus he reverses the theory of Mallet, which
makes voleanic energy the result rather than the cause of compression,
and he shows that the utmost conceivable amount of heat capable of
being obtained by his theory is inadequate to the purpose assigned to
it. He considers, moreover, that the geographical distribution of vol-
canoes is better explained on the supposition of a thin crust and fluid
substratum than upon any other.

‘““<Their linear arrangement points to their being situated along great
systems of fissures; and such systems of fissures are indicative of a thin
crust. Fissures which run for long distances in nearly straight courses
point either to a movement perpendicular to the fissured surface or else
to a rending pressure within the fissure itself; while on the other hand
fissures which are caused by contraction in a direction parallel to the
earth’s surface would divide up an area into polygonal fissures. The
former arrangement of the fissures accords best with the distribution
of volcanic ranges and suggests a thin crust.’

“ Voleanic regions are either oceanic or appertaining to the coast, and
ASTRONOMY. 307

it is probable that the latter are closely connected with elevations of
the continents which they skirt, while the oceanic volcanoes are not
concerned with true elevatory action. The great volcanic chain of the
Pacific approximately divides the earth into two parts, one of which
contains the chief proportion of land, while the other contains Australia
and nearly all the ocean. And perhaps the area of Australia has been
elevated within the ocean hemisphere on account of the deflection of
the great Pacific line of action by the northwest line, which passes
through Sumatra and the Malay Archipelago, and which meets it at
the southeast corner of Asia.

‘“‘ Although many of the subjects discussed by Mr. Fisher must remain
open questions until we are far better acquainted with the conditions
of voleanic action, we think that he has cleverly argued his points, and,
by the frequent application of a rigid mathematical treatment, has re-
moved his opinions from the domain of those pure speculations which are
too often applied to the explanation of obscure phenomena connected
with the physics of the earth.”

Geodesy of Europe.—Two very interesting charts have just been dis-
tributed as supplements to the proceedings of the sixth general con-
ference of the European Geodetic Survey (held at Munich, in 1880),
One of these gives all the telegraphic determinations of differences of
longitude, and the other gives all the determinations of latitude and
azimuth (separately). Such charts for the United States would be
most valuable.

Atmospheric refraction.—An important memoir on refraction has been
lately published by M. Radan, who, after a discussion and comparison
of previous theories, gives formule and tables for refraction, in which
allowance may be made for difference in the rate of decrease of tempera-
ture with the height above the earth’s surface at different seasons of the
year. M. Radan also discusses the case in which the surfaces of equal
temperature in the atmosphere are inclined to the earth’s surface.

The Moon.—Selenography has lately received a valuable contribu-
tion by the publication of the sketches of portions of the moon’s disk
which were made by Tobias Mayer, at Gottingen, in the middle of the
last century. Mayer was the first observer who constructed a general
map of the moon in which the positions of the chief lunar spots were
laid down from actual measurements, and not from mere eye-drafts.
The intended publication of his lunar sketches at the end of the last
century was frustrated by the death of Lichtenberg, who had under-
taken it, and Mayer’s smaller general map remained the only accessible
result of his selenographical labors. To the discussion of any questions
referring to physical changes on the moon’s surface, the evidence which
may be derived from trustworthy sketches made at an early period is
obviously of considerable importance, and the publication of Mayer’s
old sketches is therefore a welcome addition to the available sources of
information. There are forty sketches made between June, 1748, and
308 : SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 12882.

June, 1750, and these are reproduced by photoheliography, so that the
copies are faithful representations of the originals. They are accompa-
nied by a copy of Mayer’s large general map, of nearly fourteen inches
diameter; and thus the results of his old selenographical observations,
obtained with humble means, have at last become available, and a debt
long due to him has been paid by the Gottingen observatory.

Mr. Henry Harrison; of New York, has published a colored lithograph
representing the moon as the “ three-days-old crescent,” or as it appears
three days after the time of new moon. As the ordinary lunar maps
are constructed with the object of exhibiting the general topography of
the whole visible surface, they do not represent, and are not intended
to represent, the real aspect of the moon at any time; and it is necessary
to have special maps for special phases of illumination if they are to
show the shadows and other variable features which are so strikingly
characteristic of the moon’s appearance at different hours of the lunar
day. Mr. Harrison’s lithograph is such a special representation, and,
as regards general resemblance and artistic effect, may be called a suc-
cess. Though it does not show more than a small portion of the in-
numerable details which the telescope reveals, it gives a good notion
of the telescopic appearance of the young moon as seen with a com-
paratively low power. The moon’s image is eighteen inches in diameter,
the phase represented corresponding to the time when the crater Messier
has emerged into the light of the rising sun.

The plate is accompanied by a little descriptive hand-book and an
outline map. Its publication will be followed by that of five more plates
containing similar representations of five of the most interesting phases.

Experiments have repeatedly been made with the object of produc-
ing natural imitations of the craters and inequalities visible on the
moon’s surface, and it has been found that the figures of the lunar in-
equalities can be closely imitated by throwing pebbles upon the surface
of a smooth, plastic mass such as mud or mortar. Mr. Meydenbauer,
of Marburg, uses a basis of dextrine for the purpose and drops small
quantities of the same material from a moderate height upon that basis.
A photograph of various figures which are thus produced show a re-
markable resemblance to the various inequalities visible on the moon’s
surface. (A. Marth, in the London Academy.)

The topography of the planet Mars.—Professor Schiaparelli has pub-
lished a second important memoir, entitled “‘Osservazioni Astronomiche
e Fisiche sull’ Asse di Rotazione e sulla Topografia del Pianeta Marte
- - +” (Reale Accademia det Lincei, anno celxxviii, 1880-81.) By
combining his observations at the opposition 1879~80 with those made
at the favorable opposition of 1877, he finds the position of the equa-
tor of Mars referred to the earth’s equator as follows: Ascending node
(1880), in 48° 7.8 inclination 56° 22’ .9—figures differing little from
those provisionally adopted by Mr. Marth.
ASTRONOMY. 309

Schroeter’s observations. —The University of Leyden having acquired
in 1876 the manuscripts and copper plates of Schroeter’s great unpub-
lished work on Mars, “‘Areographische Beitrage zur genauern Kennt-
niss und Beurtheilung des Planeten Mars,” Professor Bakhuysen is
about to bring it out. Schroeter had all but completed it at the time
of his death, and had, indeed, it would appear, thoroughly revised the
greater portion of it. Professor Bakhuysen states that having reduced
Schroeter’s observations for the position of the axis of Mars, he finds its
longitude 352° 59’ and the latitude 60° 32’.

Asteroids.—The following is a list of the Asteroids discovered in
1882:

Discovered. No.’ | By— faults No.
WAT LS eee ee ecm miet ig caacanaat ccs scaase cccuuieeis seme. 22) Palisa ceeeseenssce 30
a Ye] oy AS 3 See RA em SAMS LEE SURES 3 bat at SN Se ee | 292) SSS dO seb ase aeeaeee scene 31
Esa el tetas era aia ieee acne iow op cet aisle ee on ne oe 223 G0. ode esesseeesese- 32
Map!) 3 Ober oem ints nitiaas'o ere mationeneiset ceo Sajs seu en ce oeeeeee 224 dose iste tts 33
LAND IW eae anise nie arate seacce sabe ce cubis comoch Seba ne ce eeis oe 225 | (eA See AaGanar enone 34
DU lye Oemeeense sae cance cas sotee sales baecccame ween ee ele | 2260/2: dobassee ees. toes | 35
Fee el ce See eee EGC BEG HE SEC eR SOS EB EECEO CRE ee 227 | Prosper Henry...-..-- | 8
Aras O meen se: ae eis Capes 281d Tas Pn eee Bere [jo PNSASe Palin cena ice Ore te | 36
Fe j0s PAN SERB AS EARS cee ES ORS AO a Ee esa ee Coie toe D20U 2d Ol see eeee eiecea| 37
SGT hee iqedohcet SOQ a0 de SECOR eS OMe BOSS ONO Oe eee ae ts 230) lire Ballas er I
Sept. 10 ...... ee We eee cacin cee as Clee tenes ebeteve sce 231) | (Palisaele. cases cis soe ns | 38

The mass of Jupiter.—Dr. Schur has made a new determination of the
mass of Jupiter from heliometer measures of the satellites, an equal
number of observations being made on each satellite. His results
are:

From satellite I, m=1+(1050.918 + 1.667.)

From satellite IL, m= 1+(1046.026 + 1.425.)

From satellite III, m = 1~+(1047.665 + 0.646.)

From satellite IV, m= 1~(1046.818 + 0.484.)
so that having regard to the weights, the mass of Jupiter is 1+ (1047.232
+ 0.365), the sun being taken as unity. Bessel’s published result by the
same method was 1~(1047.879), but Dr. Schur has reduced Bessel’s
work anew, having regard to the corrections proposed by Auwers to the
constants of the heliometer (periodic error of screw, temperature coeffi-
cient, ete.), and finds, in the mean for Bessel, 1048.629 + 0.198, and com-
bining by weights, the final mass of Jupiter from observations of the
satellites by Bessel and Schur is, 1+ (1048.311 + 0.174).

Dr. Schur brings up some interesting questions in regard to the per-
sonal errors of observations of the satellites, for an account of which
reference must be made to the original paper.

Various other series of measures of the satellites are discussed, but
no changes are made in the concluded mass of Jupiter.

The mean motions and the periods of the satellites require only ex-
tremely small changes.
310 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882.

The disk of Jupiter.—Prof. G. W. Hough’s annual report as director of
the Dearborn Observatory at Chicago, for the year 1882,is mainly de-
voted tothe reduction and discussion of the numerous series of observa-
tions on the spots upon the disk of the planet Jupiter, made with the
184 inch refractor, including measures for position of the great red spot,
of equatorial white spots and other markings, and angles of position of
the equatorial belt. The observations extend over the period from
September, 1879, to March, 1882. ‘Those made in 1879 and 1880 showed
that the red spot was retrograding with accelerated velocity, and this
drifting has continued with such uniformity that Professor Hough con-
siders ‘‘the position of the spot at any future period can be very accu-
rately computed.” It was found that all the observations could be fairly
represented by a period of rotation, varying directly with the time,
and the discussion leads to the following formula: (1879, September
25+ t x 0.00209s.,) which gives 9" 55™ 358.9 for the mean period between
September 25, 1879, and March 29, 1882, comprising 916 days, or 2,214
rotations of the planet.

Hence, it is inferred that the apparent rotation-period has increased
about four seconds since the opposition of 1879, showing a total drift
of the red spot in longitude of 40,000 miles; and Professor Hough
regards his observations as evidence that the great red spot is not the
solid portion of the planet. ‘An immense floating island,” nearly 30,000
miles in length, and more than 8,000 in breadth, has ‘‘maintained its
shape and size, without material change, during more than three years.”
He has failed to recognize any fading of the color of the spot, which,
on February 2 in the present year, he judged to be a light pink, as
formerly. Although the dimensions of the spot may not be said to
have materially changed, the micrometrical measures do indicate a
diminution in length to the extent of 0.95 between the oppositions of
1879 and 1881, at which latter epoch it was 11/.30 (reduced to Jupiter’s
inean distance).

The direction of the south edge of the equatorial belt was nearly
parallel with the planet’s equator, as given in Marth’s ephemeris; the
north edge of this belt was found to be slightly concave.

The elliptical white spots were more numerous in 1882 than previ-
ously, but, with the exception of two situated south of the red spot, they
were seen with difficulty, and were only measurable under the best
vision. The two spots named were observed systematically during the
three months from November 21, 1881, to February 23, 1882. The fol-
lowing of the two appeared to be at rest relatively to the red spot from
November 22 to December 6, and subsequently to diift in the direction
of rotation to the extent of about 41°; the average drift during the
jast two months was at the rate of fifteen miles per hour. The preced-
ing spot also did not retain the same relative position in longitude with
respect to the great red spot. Professor Hough adds: “The observa-
tions of the small white spots during 1880 and 1881 prove that the
ASTRONOMY. 311

whole surface of the planet outside the margin of the equatorial belt
rotates with nearly the same rate.” The approximate rotation-period
for the principal white spot between the edges of the great equatorial
belt was 95 50™ 98.8 from observations over more than eight months,
which is the same as for the second spot observed during 1880. Hence,
these equatorial white spots drift in the direction of the planet’s rota-
tion, at about 260 miles per hour, or through a complete revolution in
about 45 days.

Twelve tinted drawings of the appearance of the dise of Jupiter
accompany the report. The first of two made on July 3, 1880, shows
the second satellite just entering on the great red spot at 15" 43™.5, and
the other, made nine minutes later, shows it nearly over its center. A
notch was formed so soon as the satellite touched the end of the red spot,
and when completely entered it appeared as white as when outside the
planet’s disk.

OBSERVATORIES.

Observatories of the United States.—It will be remembered that at the
accession of Professor Pickering to the directorship of the Harvard
Coilege Observatory he obtained by the subscription of some 70 persons
in Boston the sum of $25,000 ($5,000 a year for five years). A pamphlet
report on the scientific work accomplished has just been published,
which shall be summarized here. The work is spoken of under the head-
ings of the various instruments employed.

Large equatorial: This has been chiefly devoted to photometry and
many new (successful) forms of photometers have been devised. The
brightness of the satellites of Mars, Jupiter, Saturn, Uranus (two only)
and Neptune has been determined. Some 200 double stars and about
100 bright stars with faint companions have been measured in the same
way. All the planetary nebule have been similarly measured and sev-
eral new ones have been discovered by their spectrum only.

Many variable stars have had their light curves determined photo-
metrically, and several new ones have been discovered. Fifty points on
the moon have also been determined. Bond’s zones of faint stars near
the equator are shortly to be revised.

Meridian circle: The zone (50° to 55° N.) has been finished. It con-
tains 8,500 stars from 1 to 10th mag., each of which has been observed
twice. Two hundred and fifty-eight stars have been observed, each 6
times, for the Coast Survey. One hundred standard stars are regu-
larly observed with the sun. This work has continued for 3 years, and
will require 2 more. The graduation errors of one circle have been
determined. :

Meridian photometer: Every star visible to the naked eye has had
its light determined photometrically on at least three nights, many on
more; over 100,000 observations were made in 3 years, and this work is
now completed. Other similar work is planned. Other miscellaneous
312 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882.

work of importance has been done, but is not mentioned here. This
brief summary will be sufficient to show the extraordinary amount of
the work which has been accomplished during the 5 years by the aid of
the additional endowment. The reasons for this Professor Pickering
summarizes as follows, and they deserve careful attention :

‘It will be noticed that the increased work is quite out of proportion
to the increase of income. This is to be expected, since a large part of
the expense is the same in either case, and the increase is directly
available for the attainmert of scientific results. The formation of a
corps of skilled assistants also requires time, and a delay in securing a
continuation of our present income would seriously reduce our capacity
for attaining results with the greatest economy both of time and money.

‘‘ As an increased expenditure was undertaken before the completion
of the subscription, it is deemed best not to limit the present report to
a period of exactly five years, but to include all the work undertaken
since my first connection with the observatory in February, 1877.

‘The effect of the subscription may be summarized in a few words.
Without it only one instrument, the meridian circle, was kept actively
at work, the large telescope being comparatively idle. The reductions
even of this one instrument could not be kept up, but every year fell
more and more behindhand. With the subscription, the large telescope,
the meridian circle, and the meridian photometer are in constant use.
A large number of the old observations have been published, while the
remainder have been reduced, and before long will be ready for publica-
tion. One volume of the recent observations with the large telescope
has already been published; another volume of meridian photometer
observations is now passing through the press. The unfinished volumes
of Annals were completed, so that, as is shown below, our work is now
known through twelve quarto volumes, while in 1876 but four had been
given to the public. Eight more volumes of Annals will be needed
to complete the publication of the observations already made. The in-
creased rate of work ensues simply because the corps of assistants has
been more than doubled.”

Willets Point.—A very interesting report is published by General H.
M. Abbot, of the Corps of Engineers, U.S. Army, on the astronomical
work which has been done during 1881 at the engineer post of Willets
Point, New York Harbor. It is to this school of application that young
officers of engineers are sent to learn the practical application of their
studies at West Point. They are taught the practice of military sur-
veying, mining, torpedo service, etc., and also the application of astron-
omy to military and boundary surveys. Each year a gepveral order is
issued, giving the results of the past year’s work. The order for 1882
may be summarized as below:

For local time, each officer makes a long series of determinations with
various instruments, and in various ways. Using the portable transit,
the time of transit is at first recorded by an assistant, at the word given

a ae ee
ASTRONOMY. 313

by the observer; next, the observer records his own time by the relay
beat of a chronometer every 1 second; next by the chronographic method,
and lastly by the beat of the chronometer itself (every 0.5 second). Be-
ginners use these methods in succession in the order named.

Personal equation is studied by means of Eastman’s machine (see
Wash. Ast. Obs., 1875), and an interesting table of results by the second
method of marking time (the relay beat) is given.

The time determinations are given for each day of observations, with
the probable errors.

Time determinations by sextant observations are also given, and by
means of the (known) correction of the standard chronometer the error
of each observation and observer is determined.

We quote below the errors of the sextant Delta t’s so determined.
(Usually 10 altitudes of an east star and 10 of a west were employed.)
ASO sO seclie ore 158.52 (852 5/248 1s 187: OF.40. 18 Se, OFM sos cggee.o OO:
58.0. These are the observations of students.

The latitude is determined, first by zenith teléscope, and the first
process is the evaluation of the level division. This is done by each
student, and of the set for 1881 the largest probable error is -+0//.008.

The observations for latitude are given in detail. From 326 observa-
tions of 84 pairs in 1880, the latitude was found to be + 40° 47! 21/7.59
+ 0.082. From 591 observations of 104 pairs in 1881, it was found to
be + 40° 47/ 21.47, a difference of about 12 feet only. Sextant observa-
tions for latitude were also made. The errors of the several determina-
tions were 1.1; 30.5; 14.8; 7.4; 0.9; 0.5, respectively.

The longitude is determined—

1st. By lunar culminations. The errors were found to be (of one night’s
observations), 7°.01; 6°.99; 3°.14; 15°.97; 3°.74; 215.06; 14°.29; 24°.84;
208.58; 258.04; 49.06; 28.28; 15.81. The errors of each limb of the moon
are separately shown.

2d. By Jupiter’s satellites. Errors: 21°.02; 298.48; 25°.95.

od. By lunar distances (sextant). Errors: 48.0; 25°.0; 40°.6; 139.7;
fet O47 D8 7..

The value of a revolution of the micrometer screw of the small (five-
inch) equatorial was twice determined, as follows:

R = 19.362 + 0/.018 Polaris.
=O 285 = O05 Tre

The displays of the aurora have been regularly noted since 1870, Feb-
ruary 1. The number for each year is as below:

ASTOR LOLs 772, G4: 773, 925 714, 305 76. 2s Osa: 771, 133
"78, 4; 79, 16; ’80, -2; 81, 44.

What has been given as an abstract of one year’s work in one depart-
ment only of this school of application for young engineer officers is
sufficient to show that we have at present no better school of practical
astronomy in America.
314 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882.

‘

Halstead Observatory.—The new telescope at Princeton is now at last
in position and nearly ready for work. It was made by A. Clark &
Sons, of Cambridge, the glass disks being furnished by Feil, of Paris.

The diameter of the object-glass is 23 inches, and the focal length
within an inch or two of 30 feet. At present its only superiors in the
United States are the 26-inch telescopes of the Naval Observatory, at
Washington, and of the University of Virginia. In Europe the 27-inch
refractor of the Vienna Observatory and the 25-inch telescope of Mr.
Newall surpass it. Five other instruments of larger dimensions are in-
deed now constructing, two in Paris, and three in Cambridge; but it
will be some time before any of them are finished.

In the Princeton telescope the lenses which compose the object-glass
are separated by a space of nearly seven inches, allowing a free cireu-
lation of air between them, and securing arapid equalization of temper-
ature. This construction also prevents the ‘‘ghosts” (formed by re-
flections between the lenses), which are very troublesome in some large
instruments.

The spherical and color corrections are very fine in the Princeton
telescope, and the performance of the object-glass, so far as can be
judged from a few nights’ use, is entirely satisfactory. It is intended
to devote the instrument for the present mainly to spectroscopic obser-
vations of the stars. Thespectroscope is of Christie’s direct vision form,
which has been successfully used at Greenwich for several years. Mr.
Christie (Astronomer Royal) very kindly supervised its construction
{by Hilger, of London), and there is every reason to hope that it will
prove a magnificent instrument. It is much larger and more powerful
thananything ever used before in stellar work ; it is nearly six feet long,
and admits through the prisms a beam 24 inches in diameter.

A four horse-power gas-engine works the dome and shutters. It also
drives one of Edison’s dynamo machines, which furnishes a powerful
current for purposes of illumination, and for producing the spectra of
metals or gases to be compared with those of the stars.

Yale College Observatory—From a late report of Prof. H. A. New-
ton, director of Yale College Observatory, we learn that the Board of
Managers are to proceed at once to erect suitable buildings on the ob-
servatory grounds for the new heliometer just received from Messrs.
Repsold, of Hamburg, and the new equatorial telescope, purchased of
Howard Grubb, of Dublin, last summer. The towers for these instru-
ments are now being erected, and the heliometer is expected to be in
place by the first of August, that the observers may have ample time
to prepare for the best use of the instrument at the transit of Venus in
December, 1882. The new equatorial of eight inches aperture is ex-
pected from the makers about the middle of August, and it will also be
ready for use early in the autumn. The domes for these instruments
were made by Mr. Grubb. The longitude of the transit house of this
observatory was recently determined by exchanges of telegraphic sig-
ASTRONOMY. one

nals on four nights by Prof. W. A. Rogers, of Cambridge, and Dr. Waldo,
an exchange of observers being made on two nights. The difference of
longitude between the meridian circle of Harvard College Observatory
and the transit of Yale College is 08 7™ 108.353 + 0°.0091.

This report also contains the second annual statement of Dr. Waldo,
astronomer in charge of the horological and thermometrical bureaus of
the observatory. This kind of work has not been undertaken anywhere
else in this country; and the manner in which it is done reflects credit
on all concerned.

Lick Observatory.—The Lick trustees have ordered from Messrs. Rep-
sold, of Hamburg, a 6-inch meridian circle of the design of that of the
Strasburg Observatory. The objectives of the instrument and of the
north and south collimators are of six inches aperture, and will be made
by Alvan Clark & Sons. The objective and eye end of the circle are
interchangeable. There are two divided circles, A and B. A is fixed on
the axis and divided to 2’. B is movable on the axis and is divided to
2’ at four points 90° from each other. Every degree of cach circle is
numbered with an engraved figure. There are four microscopes to each
circle, one revolution of their micrometers being 1’, and one part being
1’, The setting is done by a reflecting microscope with two eye-pieces,
one north, the other south. The axis of the circle is itself a telescope,
and a collimator east or west is used to rectify its position. The hang-
ing level is so arranged that it can be applied while the instrument is
pointed to the nadir.

The flint disk for the 36-inch objective to be made by Alvan Clark &
Sons for the Lick Observatory has arrived in this country. Its diameter
is 97° (38.19 inches), its thickness 55°™ (21.65 inches), and its weight
170 kilograms (375 pounds). A month was required in the cooling.
A crown disk has also been cast by M. Feil (fils) who made the flint.

A sidereal clock ordered by the Lick trustees, from A. Hohwu, of
Amsterdam, has arrived in this country. It is in all respects similar to
the normal clock of the Washburn Observatory, described in its publi-
cations, Vol. I, 1881, p. 12; and to a clock just delivered to the Pulkova
Observatory. Its cost is about $447. Similar clocks are mounted at
the observatories of Upsala, Leyden, Strasburg, Brussels, and Tashkent.
This clock bears the number 35. ,

_ West Point Academy.—Alvan Clark & Sons are making a 12-inch equa-
torial for the observatory of the United States Military Academy at
West Point.

The following list of dates may have some interest:

The collimating eye-piece was first proposed (by Bohnenberger)

in the Astronomiche Nachrichten, Vol. LV, p. 330 in....-..----- 1825
ised 2b Madras) Wserwalory (220020 seicietrce Poe a else: he asic 1834
LISS LePan Fe EG OVC TOHS GSS aT VIR BRM NE | SW SM a 1837
Wired ac ei DeeoiOr MAGIE /1k) Wloka Coe ase). cae. arclc 1840

MRA Oxford ore acre ik eee Pe omeae un abe ee ki eet e 1843
O16 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882.

sed at: Cambridge .o..2 0.0. eee eee yatie eine eigeee eae
Used at Washington ....-.....- Pe etre ei! ES 1815
Used sat Green wich.. . <<). cence eee seers oo. ae eee 1847

McCormick Observatory.—Prof. Ormond Stone of the Cincinnati Ob-
servatory, has been appointed director of the Leander McCormick Obser-
vatory of the University of Virginia. The institution is already in pos-
session of the great refracting telescope made by the Clarks a few years
ago for Mr. McCormick, who generously presented it to the university
in 1877. It cost nearly $50,000. The friends of the university have
contributed $75,000 to endow the chair of astronomy.

Warner & Swazey, of Cleveland, have completed arrangements with
the director of this observatory (Prof. O. Stone) by which they are to
build a 45-footiron and steel dome to contain the 264-inch Clark refractor.

The dome is to turn on a live ring, on Grubb’s plan, but the rolls are
to be mounted in an ingenious manner which does away with most of
the friction, and allows of the most accurate placing of the ring on the
track. It is guaranteed that the dome (45 feet) will revolve with a
direct pressure of fifty pounds.

Foreign observatories.—The last number of the Vierteljahrsschrift der
Astronomischen Gesellschaft contains reports of the proceedings of some
twenty of the observatories in Europe during the year 1881. At Berlin
observations for the zone + 20° to 259, were actively continued, upwards
of 10,000 being made in the year. The 9-inch refractor was employed
for comets and small planets, ete., the physical appearances of the comet
1881 III, receiving special attention. With the Declinograph 1,200 small
stars were observed, making, up to the end of 1881, 12,529 stars, mostly
from the eleventh to the thirteenth magnitudes, thus determined in con-
nection with the identification and observation of the small planets.
At Bonn the southern *‘ Durchmusterung” furnished observations of
upwards of 14,000 stars, so that rapid progress is being made with this
work under the direction of Professor Schoenfeld. At Brussels astro-
nomical physics, as well as meridian observations, have been attended
to; the meteors of the August period were extensively observed over
Belgium; Christiania was mainly occupied, under Dr. Fearnley, with the
zone 65° — 70°, and the curious circumstance of the existence of four
variable stars in this zone within a radius of 1° is recorded; the first,
in 20> 59™ 208 + 66° 85, has been estimated by various observers
from 5m. (Lalande) to 9m. (Argelander); the second is in 20% 59™ 48»
+ 67° 35’.9; the third in 21" 7™ 338 + 67° 54/.4, and the fourth in 21"
11™ 49° + 66° 0/.9, for 1855.0. Baron v. Engelhardt, at Dresden, has
zealously observed the various comets of the year, and has made 111
observations of 19 minor planets. The principal instrument in the
Baron’s observatory is an equatorial refractor by Howard Grubb, of
Dublin; aperture 306™". A new physical observatory has been erected
at Herény, Hungary, by Eugen and Alexander von Gothard, the posi-

ASTRONOMY. | ol’

tion of which is 12™ 49.8° east of Berlin, in latitude 47° 16’ 37”.
The observatory is provided with a 104-inch equatorially-mounted re-
flector by Browning, of London. Observations were commenced in the
second week of November, and chiefly consisted of the examination of
star-spectra. At Keil an 8-inch refractor by Steinheil has been received.
Meridian observations here were largely devoted to circumpolar stars
+ 79° to 82°, but according to the present plan the observations will be
continued to the pole. Leipsic is now under the direction of Prof.
H. Bruns. At Lund the zone undertaken by the observatory was con-
tinued, more than 5,200 stars being determined. From the observatory
of Brera, Milan, Professor Schiaparelli makes the welcome announce-
ment that the late Baron Dembowski had confided to him all his astro-
nomical manuscripts, with the condition that they were to be utilized
to the best advantage for the science. His measures of double stars,
upwards of 20,000 in number, will be published under the auspices of
the Accademia Reale dei Lincei; they are to form four volumes, of which
the first will contain the measures made by Dembowski at Naples with
his Pléss] Dialytic in the years 185258; the second and third, the obser-
vations made at Galarate on stars of the Dorpat Catalogue, and the
fourth, the measures of stars in W. Struve’s appendix, the Pulkowa
Catalogue, and double stars discovered by ¢ther astronomers, more
especially by the eminent American observer, Mr. Burnham. The first
volume is in course of preparation. -At Plonsk Dr. Jedrzejewiez con-
tinues, in his private observatory, measures of double stars as his prin-
cipal work. The passages of the red spot on Jupiter, by the middle of
the disk, were micrometrically determined from November 25, 1880, to
February 5, 1881, from 174 rotations. The period was found to be 9"
55™ 34.418. + 0.138, and at the same time the jovicentric latitude of
the center of the spot was found — 22°.8, and its length in degrees of
the parallel 269.4; the third and fourth comets of 1881 and Encke’s
comet were also observed for position. The physical observatory at
Potsdam was in full activity, and, in addition to the more special sub-
jects of observation undertaken by this important establishment, an
extensive series of observations of variable stars was secured in 1881.
From Stockholm Dr. Hugo Gylden notifies his determination of the par-
allax of the star Bradley 3077, or No. 240 in Argelander’s Calalogue of
250 stars, forming part of the seventh volume of the Bonn observations.
The resulting value is 0.283 + 0.0468. This star has considerable
proper motion. Prof. R. Wolf communicates from Zurich the monthly
number of days with and without sun spots, and the relative numbers.
In the whole year’s observing days the sun was free from spots on five
days and exhibited spots on 297.

rom the report of the director of the Paris Observatory, we extract
the following: The asteroids, which have been observed at Paris and
at Greenwich for the past fifteen years, are now to be observed at Paris
only. It has been found at Greenwich that the bad weather seriously
318 "SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882.

interferes with the progress of, the work; and Admiral Mouchez has
therefore undertaken the whole of this labor at Paris.

The observation of the stars of Lalande has been going on at Paris
for some years, as is well known. During the past three years this
task has been made the chief work of the meridian service, and it is
hoped that the whole of these observations will be finished in 1882.
The catalogue will be published in Paris, and it is expected that part
1, comprising 23,640 stars, will be sent to the printer during the year.

This will be the most important contribution to stellar astronomy
that could be rendered.

The eighteen observers of the méridian service have made 28,747 ob-
servations during the year. The observations of the sun, moon, planets
and comets amount to 1,018. These are reduced by the Bureau des
Calculs. The equatorials. are employed as before in observations of
planets, comets, and asteroids. The large reflector will be resilvered
and devoted to photographic and spectroscopic work.

The meteorological observations, the time-services, and the astronom-
ical school of Montsouris continue as formerly.

Visitors are admitted (by the written permission of the director) once
a month. Four hundred persons come on the average, and the uses of
the various instruments are explained to them by four of the astrono-
mers, in regular turn.

The observatory is about to undertake an investigation of the varia-
tions of the vertical, which have been remarked by Messrs. D’Abbadie
and Darwin. From the terms in which this research is spoken of in the
report, it is evident that it is not considered to be one which promises
to be very fruitful in results. The large refractor is still in process of
construction. It will be clear, from the brief résumé here given, that
the observatory of Paris is engaged in work fully worthy of its great
name and of its past services to astronomy.

The commission appointed by M. Ferry to report on the construction
of the rotating dome for the large refractor of the Paris Observatory
has held numerous meetings at the Conservatoire des Arts et Métiers,

Colonel Laussedat, director of the establishment, being in the chair .

Only two projects have been reserved for final choice. M. Hiffel pro-
poses to use a saline solution in a horizontal circular channel placed on
the wall to diminish the weight of the rotary roof.

Owing to the exertions of Admiral Mouchez, magnetical observations
will soon be resumed at the Paris Observatory, in subterranean cham-
bers which have been excavated in the newly annexed grounds. These
observations will be self-registering by photography, in conformity with
the instruments established by M. Mascart at the College de France.
Direct observations will also be conducted with the old instruments
which were used by Arago, which were famous for his prognostications
of aurore, at a period when, the electric telegraph not having been.

ASTRONOMY. ; 319

invented, many days must elapse before the arrival in Paris of news
from the northern parts of Europe.

A credit of 96,000 franes ($19,200) has been granted by the Chambers
of Belgium to found an observatory at the University of Liége. It will
be chiefly devoted to the instruction of students in geodesy and geo-
graphical surveying.

A new observatory has been founded at Tashkent, under the direc-
tion of Lieutenant Pomerantzeff. The principal instruments are—

1. A Repsold meridian circle of 4.82-inch aperture and 55.27 focus,
with a cirele divided to 2’ and read by 4 microscopes.

2. A Merz equatorial of 6.34 inches aperture.

3. A sidereal clock by Hohwu.

The geographical position is:

Latitude, 40° 18/ 32/”.2,

Longitude, 22 35™ 528,15, east of Pulkova.

From two letters, printed in [7 Astronomie, we learn that Don José
Gonzales has built and equipped and also endowed a small observatory
in Bogota, Colombia. Its principal instruments are a 4-inch equatorial,
a small meridian circle, spectroscopes, &c. The facade bears the inscrip-
tion: ‘“‘ Observatoire Flammarion.—A la France.—A Flammarion.—”

ASTRONOMICAL BIBLIOGRAPHY.

The fourth and last fascicule of the second volume of Bibliographie
de VAstronomie, by J. C. Houzeau, director of the Royal Observatory
of Brussels, and A. Laneaster, librarian of the same, has lately ap-
peared. The authors have tabulated the number of astronomical papers.
by the dates of publication, from 1600 to 1880, and have plotted the re-
sults in a curve of astronomical works, which illustrates with striking
effect the rapidity with which the number of these articles is increasing
with time. Political revolutions have but slightly affected this pro-
gressive activity—excepting only the great wars of the first French
empire, which occasioned a remarkable decrease in the number of pa-
pers, the epoch of greatest depression being the year 1815. Important
astronomical discoveries and events have had the most marked effect
in stimulating the production of astronomical works; for example, the
last transit of Venus, 1874, and the discovery of Neptune, 1846. Of
some 1,800 articles indexed in this volume of the Bibliographie, 6,000
are written in the French language, 5,800 in English, 4,400 in German,
800 in Italian, and 600 in Latin, the remaining 400 being divided un-
evenly among nine other languages. The four most prolific names are
those of Secchi, Lalande, Zach, and Bessel, while those who have aver-
aged the greatest number of papers per annum during the period of
their activity are Flammarion, Secchi, and Proctor. The sections of
this volume are nine in number, and relate to the History of Astronomy,
Astronomical Biography, Spherical Astronomy, Theoretical Astronomy,
Celestial Mechanics, Astronomical Physics, Practical Astronomy, Mon-
320 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882.

ographs on the principal bodies of the Solar System, and Stellar A.s-
tronomy. The first and third volumes, being thought of less pressing
importance than the second, will be published subsequently, and will
relate, the first to works (or separate publications), and the third to
observatories and the observations made at them.

This work has been epitomized in the Vade-mecum de l Astronomie,
8vo, 1 vol., 1882.

The Greenwich Observatory, always prompt in its publications, is
this year even more prompt than usual. The volume of 1879 has been
distribuied ; parts of the volume for 1880 have also been sent out, and
the whole volume is nearly printed ; and at the date.of writing, the vol-
ume for 1881 is nearly ready for the printer.

Professor Folie, director of the new observatory at Luttich, has
published new tables for computation of the precession, nutation, ete.
These are more complete than Coffin’s and Hubbard’s tables in the
Washington observations for 1847, and according to the account of
them in V. J. S. der Ast. Gesell., 1881, p. 291, they are also more con-
venient, as the argument (R. A.) does not vary uniformly, as in the
Washington tables, but is varied so as to make the interpolation easy.

The German Astronomical Society is about to issue another volume
of its publications (the quarto series). It has for title, Syzygien- Tafeln
fiir den Mond, nebst ausfiihrlicher Anweisung thres Gebrauchs, von Th. von
Oppolzer.

The publication (by Scribners) of Trouvelot’s “Astronomical draw-
ings of the sun, planets, comets, and nebule” gives us‘a work never at-
tempted before on such a scale, and only recently made possible.

The plates represent to the general student and the public, with
accuracy and beauty, the chief celestial objects and phenomena, almost
exactly as the power of modern instruments now presents them to the
trained eye of the astronomer. Not only are the general appearance
and relative positions of the different objects accurately given, but their
peculiar and delicate colorings are reproduced with excellent effect—a
result which photography is wholly inadequate to secure.

The fifteen years’ study of which this is the fruit has involved the
preparation of about seven thousand larger and smaller drawings, in
which telescopes of all powers have been used, from the great 26-inch
equatorial in Washington to instruments of 64 inches aperture. The
whole series consists of 15 large plates.

New astronomical journal.—M. Flammarion has recently founded a
new popular astronomical journal, having for title: I’ Astronomie, revue
mensuelle d Astronomie populaire, de Météorologie et de Physique du Globe.

No. Lis dated March, 1882, and contains a good account of the observ-
atory of Paris, with wood-ecuts of its appearance in 1672 and at present.
A list of the instruments now in use is given, which we copy:
ASTRONOMY. By A) |

Aperture inches.

MARINE VEE AM SUECS el atts « 3)2)27< 5)e ye c\afeln ed eei ete) 58 hs siahions ales a: iA piaiune 5. 91
Gambey mural-circle. .. 2...) 2. sss. PAG teva (sist ays od nickel tes ete 4.74
(1) Eiehens meridian circle .......... ep eeiare si eaivehe = ciatcys Gale. aes 9. 48
(2) Eichens meridian circle.......... NOs Ae: ANN Cy PO 7.48
NEE RETOUR EC] MEAD ONLAN 2008 30. Sisco la) ee es 2 Ae a cata sauce ae 14. 96
DCCECUATINCOMEALOTIAL (2.22.5 Yio o/s 2 2's: dave Sues ona tialore stslaras leleis mosis bie 12. 20
PCEroLaMeUMAGOrIal:, 5. o4. 45/5 235 Soe Seer ele siete pS ot) ESO eA,

A short and interesting history of the administrations of the various
directors is given, most attention being naturally paid to the present
one. The salaries paid are:

Francs.
MDC CEEOL = fat Gee es. abs SIU A ey he A os ek ee 15, 000
DCE MIPECLOLIS acm se yes ears) ales etre ne rsioe eee, Sela es eee 12, 000
fa SU TET UESTEE ES SIs SORES AT ae eee os eee Be eee sein cues 7,000 to 10, 000
AGUNG AStONOMERS | 6:32: <pave%a!</ss2\e. oe, 3525.2 a Sele caetee 3,500 to 7, 000

The meridian observations are to-day chiefly devoted to a reobserva-
tion of the Lalande stars, some 48,000 in all. Probably the places of
some 23,000 Lalande stars will be printed in 18%2. The ten observers
obtain some 28,000 observations yearly.

The six observers with the equatorials are engaged on the observa-
tion (and discovery) of asteroids, double stars, &c. The reflector of 47
inches aperture is not in use. The large refractor of 29.13 inches aper-
ture will be mounted sbortly.

It is announced that with the year 1883 a new journal, Science, will
be published in Cambridge, Mass., with Mr. S. H. Scudder as editor and
the principal scientific men of the country as coadjutors. It is intended
to fill a corresponding place to the English Nature, and certainly it
starts with the fairest prospects, and occupies a field in which there is
much to do.

MISCELLANEOUS.

Standard time.—The two following papers (which do not exhaust the
subject, however,) may be taken to show the general interest in the
question of a standard or of many standards of time. For America the
question should be settled after careful discussion and general consent,
and not be allowed to drift to its solution :

“In response to the circular of the general time convention, asking
for communications beariug upon the matter of a standard time for the
railways of the United States and Canada, Admiral Rodgers, late Super-
intendent of the United States Naval Observatory, wrote the following:

““¢The various countries of the world generally have their own prime
meridian, as Greenwich, Paris, Pulkova, ete., and the national maps
are drawn to the respective national prime meridians. The maps of the
United States are drawn with reference to the meridian of Washington.
The observatories of Europe—Pulkova, Greenwich, Paris, ete.—give
time to their respective nations. In England the differences of longi-
tude are not great, and all England uses Greenwich time. But the

H. Mis. 26——2
B p74 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882.

extent of the United States renders a single time impracticable, for by
the hour at any place is only sought an expression for the relative posi-
tion of the sun in regard to that place. At the noon of any locality the
sun is on its meridian; at 1 o’clock it is one hour past the meridian; at
midnight it is on the lower meridian, or just under the feet, and at 1
o’clock at night it is one hour past the lower meridian. All this is very
elementary, and is known to every one.

‘“¢By local time man must live, move, and have his being. Other
standard for his daily avocations is chimeriecal, fit for speculation, but
utterly impracticable. Sailors have for a long time kept on board ship,
for their practical purposes, two times—namely, local time, for the daily
uses of life, and the time of the national meridian, for astronomical pur-
poses. This is Greenwich, Paris, Pulkova, or other, according to nation-
ality. This arrangement at sea is in constant use by a community far
from a learned one, according to shore standards. Thesystem must be
plain and practical to landsmen, since it is plain and practiced by sea-
men.

“<The plan of time zones seems to me a plan for legalizing diver-
sity. Itis against diversity that the country protests, as applied to rail-
road service. Two neighbors, separated by a fence, may live in differ-
ent zones, or two villages near one another may have different’ zones
and different legal times, in which case business will be carried on be-
_ tween them with more difficulty than with natural time, by which people
dwelling near one another will have, substantially, agreement in their
watches. Two railroads on different sides of.a river may have different
zones, and trains collide for want of agreement. Except in towns of
some size, no one would know his zone, for the zones cannot be marked.
The State lines are too irregular in shape to serve for a guide, nor have
we custom-houses on the borders to inform travelers of the name of the
State into which they enter.

‘¢¢ Learned societies may recommend artificial time for the use of man,
but it is to be apprehended that the community may refuse to accept
it. When the laborer, who has worked from sunrise until noon, is
gravely told that noon comes at 1 o’clock, will he not object? In short,
men will continue to keep natural time for their daily uses, whatever
different practice conventions may recommend.

‘¢¢In conclusion, I beg leave to recommend that in the railroad guides
the time of Washington, the national meridian of the United States, be
published opposite to the movements of through trains, leaving, the
trains to run on Boston time, or Ogden, or San Francisco, or such other
time as the directors may prefer. This plan invades no right now en-
joyed; it changes no practice ; it only adds to the tables a few columns
of figures. 1 would also recommend that the clocks at railroad stations
be furnished with two sets of hands, gilt hands for Washington time,
and black hands for local time. These hands, separated by a constant
difference equal to the differences of longitude, will always show at a
glance the time required, whether local or Washington.”

The second paper referred to, is an essay read by Dr. Ulbricht, at a
convention of engineers, which met at Dresden last winter, and is as
follows:

‘In most of the European countries the inconvenience of various localh
times has been partially done away with, by accepting the true time at
the capital city for the standard time for the rest of the couniry, as has
been partly done by the railroad companies in the United States; whole
ASTRONOMY. 323

trains arrive at and leave the intermediate stations by New York or
Chicago time.

“Dr. Ulbricht then spoke with approbation of the ingenious plan
proposed by President Barnard, of Columbia College, New York, at the
convention held recently at Cologne to discuss some of the debated
points of international law. President Barnard’s scheme is to have
the earth divided by twenty-four meridian lines corresponding to the
number of hours in a solar day, and to have the inhabitants of each
spot on the globe reckon time by the true time at the nearest meridional
line. By this plan, all places would register minutes and seconds sim-
ultaneously, all over the world, the name of the hour only being differ-
ent at each meridian line. If this much could be secured, it would be
a vast improvement on the present irregular system, but it would neces-
sitate perfect standards and exceedingly caretul and accurate distribu-
tion of time from the appointed centers or standard clocks.

“The ‘time ball’ on the Wartberg (a mountain near Heilbrunn),
which was set up more than a hundred years ago by that many-sided
genius, Goethe, is a primitive mode of distributing time from a central
station to the surrounding stations, and modern science is rapidly per-
fecting this system, so that the complete unison between all the clocks
of a country is only a question of time.

“The pneumatic system gives unqualified satisfaction in Vienna,
where it has been thoroughly tested, and other places are introducing
it; but the most infallibly accurate means for distributing time either
long or short distances, is electricity. Simultaneous action m clocks,
no matter how widely separated they may be, is insured by the Hipp
system of electric communication, or the Jones system, which is in suc-
cessful operation at Greenwich, Berlin, and several other places. In
this latter system the pendulums receive their impulse by the opening
and closing of the electric circuit, so that all have a simultaneous vibra-
tion. Of course, this system makes no allowance for the difference
between the time of different localities.

“The Siemens and Halske electrical clocks are provided with a
simple little apparatus which allows the minutes and seconds to be re-
corded on each clock in unison with the central clock, but as the hour
strikes it moves the hands back or forward to the place where they
belong according to the true time of the place.

“The system invented by Dr. Ulbricht himself, and in use in many
of the principal depots in Germany, requires the pendulum-rod to be
somewhat shorter than usual, so that the clock will gain a trifle each
hour. This is remedied by an automatic arrangement that, as the hour
strikes, stops the motion of the pendulums in all the secondary clocks
until the center clock has caught up with them, when all vibrate again
in unison.

“President Barnard’s proposition for ‘cosmopolitan time,’ as he calls
it, comprehended still further changes in the system now in use, which
can be briefly summed up as follows: After having decided upon the
location of the twenty-four meridional lines, the whole world should
reckon time from a certain one of these lines. For general convenience
(and to avoid showing undue partiality to any special country, probably),
President Barnard suggests the meridian passing through Behring
Ste and the Pacific Ocean, for the starting point, and the time mid-
night.

“The hours of the day should be counted from one to twenty-four,
inclusive, doing away with the unnecessary annoyance of dividing the
solar day into P. M. and A.M. He suggests also that the hours might
324 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882.

be a peal by the twenty-four letters of the alphabet (leaving out J
an ,

By. hie general adoption of this system, or even a modified form of
it, all the countries in the world would thus be brought into harmony,
and ‘cosmopolitan time’ would be recorded simultaneously on the faces
of all the clocks in the world, the incaleulable advantages of which must
be seen to be fully appreciated.

‘“‘A convention of geographers lately held in Venice passed resolutions
expressing their approbation and admiration of President Barnard’s
plan, prophesying that the present zealous agitation of this subject will
before long bring about a radical change in the systems now in use.”—
(From the Allg. Jour. der Uhrmacherkunst.)

Astronomical prizes, salaries, &c.—The French Academy of Sciences
has recently awarded the Lalande prize to Dr. Lewis Swift, of Roches-
ter, N. Y., for his discovery of seven comets in four years. One of them,
Comet E, 1880, which is identical with Comet III, 1869, discovered by
Tempel, is a short-period comet. The Valz prize was awarded to Dr. D.
Gill, astronomer at the Cape, for his researches on the solar parallax,
especially for his observations of Mars, at Ascension, in 1877.

From the British navy estimates for 188182, the following items of
interest are extracted: ‘Greenwich Observatory, total, £5,144. The
salary of the Astronomer Royal (to be reconsidered on the appointment
of a suecessor to Sir G. B. Airy), £1,200; of the chief assistant, £600;
two first-class assistants, £787; four second-class assistants, £1,017;
expenses for repairs, apparatus, &c., £2,639. Cape of Good Hope Ob-
servatory, total estimate for salaries, apparatus, &c., £2,703. Nautical
Almanac, £3,203, including salary of the superintendent, £550. The
average annual sale of the almanac for the last five years is estimated
at 16,749 copies. The chronometers of the royal navy cost £1,432; and
the expenses of the compass department are £2,146.”
GEOLOGY.

By Prof. T. STERRY Hunt, LL. D., F. B.S.

EOZOIC ROCKS.

The study of the EKozoic, or, as they are often called, the Archean
rocks—the Primary rocks of older writers—continues to occupy more and
nore the attention of geologists. It is now generally understood that
these rocks, like those of Secondary and more recent periods, are capa-
ble of subdivision into great stratified groups, the relations between
which, in the absence of organic remains, must be determined by strat-
igraphical and lithological characters. Of these, three great groups—
first established in North America, and named Laurentian, Huronian,
and Montalban—are now recognized in many parts of the old World.

The existence in the Alps of an older granitic gneiss, corresponding
to the Laurentian, and a younger gneissic series, the representative of
the Montalban, has long since been recognized by Gerlach, Giimbel,
and others, and the relations of the former to the great greenstone or
pietre verdi series of northern Italy, rightly referred by Gastaldi to the
Huronian, has attracted attention. It should, however, be said here
that this series, as defined by him, included also the younger gneisses
Geological studies of the Simplon, with reference to the proposed rail-
way-tunnel through the mountain, made by Renevier, show the exist-
ence there of an older gneiss, called by Gerlach the gneiss of Antigorio,
which is well seen in the Val de Vedro, where it is brought up by an
anticlinal from beneath a mass of younger gneisses, with micaceous and
hornblendic schists and crystalline limestones. This latter series has
a great thickness, and is probably, like the upper gneiss of the St.
Gothard, Montalban, here resting directly upon Laurentian.

The careful geological studies of Stapff, the director of the St. Goth-
ard tunnel, show at the base a granitoid gneiss (veined granite of other
observers), to which belongs the Finsteraarhorn, overlaid by a great
Series of gneisses and mica-schists, with serpentine and hornblendic
rocks, through which the greater part of the tunnel passes. These form
the southern slope of the St. Gothard, as well as the basins of Unseren
on the north and the Ticino on the south side. They have, according
to Stapff, an aggregate thickness of not less than 15,000 meters,
but the possibility of repetition by faults and undulations should not
be lost sight of. Von Hauer has recognized two similar series of

i 325
326 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882.

gneisses in the Austrian Alps, besides an intermediate group, which he
compares with the Huronian. Hunt, from his recent observations,
announces that the upper gneissic series, as examined by him on the
southern slope of the St. Gothard, and in the Ticino, are clearly of the
type of the Montalban of North America, seen in the White Mount-
ains of New Hampshire, and near Philadelphia. The tunnel of the
St. Gothard passes through about 2,000 meters of the older gneiss, on
the north, and 13,000 meters of the younger series, the strata of this
along the line being generally at a very high angle, and much con-
torted and faulted, but often lying at low angles in the Ticino. The
typical pietre verdi, or Huronian series, is here wanting, though seen over
large areas in northern Italy, with its serpentines, argillites, chloritic,
steatitic, epidotic, hornblendic, and feldspathic rocks, including so-
ealled gabbros and euphotides. Hunt has given in this connection an
account of his recent observations near the foot of Mont Viso, in the
vicinity of Biella, in the province of Novara. Here he found the older
gneiss highly contorted, having the characters of the Laurentian, and
including bands of granular limestone, with graphite, pyroxene, quartz,
and other characteristic minerals. This is overlaid to the westward by
an area of the pietre verdi or Huronian series, which is immediately suec-
ceeded on the west by Montalban gneisses and mica-schists. The south-
ward course of the eastern border of this series is such as to rapidly
reduce in this direction the considerable breadth of the Huronian, and
if continued for a mile or two beneath the superficial deposits in the
valley of the Cervo would bring the newer gneisses in juxtaposition
with the Laurentian, as in the St. Gothard section.

The gneisses and inica-schists of the Saxon Erzgebirge have, accord-
ing to the same observer, the lithological characters of the Montalban
or younger gneiss series (and the same is true of the Granulitgebirge of
Saxony), with their included beds of gabbro and serpentine. Itmay be
here remarked that the characteristic Montalban gneisses in America
pass into granulite or leptinite on the one hand, and into gneiss and
quartzose mica-schist on the other.

Sauer has found in several localities in the gneiss and mica-schist se-
ries of the Erzgebirge, conglomerates holding, in a crystalline gneissic¢
matrix, pebbles occasionally of quartzite or granular limestone, but more
often of gneiss. These rolled masses, often several inches in diameter,
represent different varieties of gneiss common to the older series of the
Alps, and in the opinion of Hunt, who has examined them, are doubt-
less pebbles derived from Laurentian strata. He has noticed a similar ~
occurrence of granular limestone pebbles in a hornblendic gneiss in the
White Mountains. Pebbles of gneiss are also found in like conditions
in gneisses in Sweden and in southeastern France.

The age of these Saxon gneisses is, according to Credner, clearly pre-
Cambrian. The late researches of the geological survey of Saxony have
shown that this is also true of the gneissic area formerly supposed by
GEOLOGY. o2t

Naumann to be of Paleozoic age, which is found to be continuous with
the other gneisses.

Marr has lately noticed the crystalline rocks which underlie the
Cambrian strata in Bohemia, and has compared the older or basal se-
ries of gneisses with limestones to the Dimetran of Wales (Laurentian).
They are succeeded unconformably by a newer crystalline series of green-
ish schists, with conglomerates, &c., which, according to him, resemble
the Pebidian of Wales (Huronian). These constitute the stage A of
Barraude, and are succeeded, after a stratigraphical break, by fossilif-
erous Cambrian and Silurian rocks.

The crystalline rocks of the Taunus were regarded by Dumont as
altered Devonian, a view also defended by Lossen, but Gosselet and
Koch have shown on stratigraphical grounds that they must be older, and
are, in part at least, Huronian. Hunt had already examined the con-
tinuation of these rocks in the Ardennes, which, from their association
with Oldhamia, must be at least at the base of the Cambrian, and had
compared them with Huronian. The question of the development of
crystalline minerals in sedimentary rocks will be discussed elsewhere.

Von Richthofen has examined the crystalline rocks of northern
China, where they occupy a great area, and are divided by him into two
groups, which he compares with Laurentian and Huronian, respectively.
The first of these is again subdivided into two parts; the olderis a
gneiss, often granulitic, with steep dips and a prevailing northwest
strike. Resting unconformably upon it are newer gneissic rocks, some-
times hornblendie and chloritic. Both of these Richthofen would refer
tothe Laurentian. Reposing in disvordance upon these is a third divis-
ion, described as a series of green schists with micaceous and horn-
blendic beds, quartzites, and crystalline limestones, presenting many
variations in different districts, but regarded by Richthofen as the
probable equivalents of the Huronian, and having a thickness of at
least 10,000 feet. These crystalline strata, after having been folded,
faulted, and penetrated by intrusive rocks, were subjected to great
erosion before the deposition of the succeeding series, called by Richt-
hofen Sinisian, to be noticed below. With reference to the twofold
division of the Chinese gneisses, it will remain for further studies to
determine whether we have here the representative of two great divis-
ions of the Laurentian, and whether we have also to do with newer
gneisses, which occasionally, in the Alps, as in parts of North America,
rest directly on the pre-Huronian gneisses.

The rocks to which Richthofen has given the name of the Sinisian
system are developed with similar characters over wide areas,and have
an aggregate thickness of from 12,000 to 20,000 feet. They are de-
scribed as consisting of three groups in concordant succession: A lower
one of reddish sandstones and quartzose breccia, a middle group of
limestones, sandstones, and argillites, and an upper of limestones, in
328 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882.

which organic remains appear for the first time. These forms are Cam-
brian, and are compared with the Potsdam of North America.

The late publications of its geological survey enable us to arrive at
some general views with regard to the Eozoic rocks of India. In the
peninsular region of that, country we find, stretching from Ceylon to
the mouth of the Ganges, a broad area, almost unbroken, of granitoid
gneissic rocks, having the general lithological characters of the Lauren-
tian, and in many parts accompanied by crystalline limestones, whose
mineralogical resemblances to those of our older gneissic system are
well known. The Bundelkhand gneissic area, lying a little to the north-
west of the great belt, is conjectured by the Indian survey to be distinct
from and older than the latter. To these gneisses succeed a great un-
conformable series of what are described as transition or submetamor-
phic strata. These include quartzites, crystalline limestones, jasper-like
rocks, which, in some cases at least, have the composition of petrosilex
and are porphyritic; beds of specular iron-ore, hornblendic and mica-
ceous schists, sometimes with garnet, staurolite, and andalusite. It is
probable, as supposed by the Indian geologists, Medlicott and Blanford,
that these transition rocks include two or more distinct groups. They
are of great but undetermined thickness.

To these succeed what is called the Vindyhan series, which, though
generally unconformable, seems, in some parts of its wide distribution,
to exhibit such transitions from the series just described as to lead to
the conjecture that some of the strata included in the former are really
parts of the lower division of the Vindyhan series, to which is assigned
a minimum thickness of 2,000 feet. It includes limestones, quartzites,
argillites, and, in Some parts, crystalline schists, recalling some of those
referred to the older transition series. It contains diamonds, of which
it has been conjectured to be the parent rock. The upper division of
the Vindyhan series is supposed to be unconformable to the lower, and
has a thickness of 20,000 feet, consisting of sandstones, limestones, and
argillites. No organic remains have as yet been observed anywhere in
this great series, which is consequently classed by the Indian survey
with Azoie rocks. It is well argued that such a great succession of

varied sediments would seem to offer the conditions for the preservation
of the remains of ordinary Paleozoic life, had such existed in the wide
Vindyhan area. This series suggests a comparison with the Sinisian
rocks in northern China, lying below the Cambrian (Potsdam) beds.
In peninsular India the Vindyhan is unconformably overlaid by the
Gondwana system, the base of which is upper Paleozoic. While these
ancient Vindyhan rocks of the peninsula are very little disturbed, we
find in northern or extra-peninsular India, to the north of the great
Indo Gangetic plain, a mountain-region in which even the Tertiary
strata bear evidence of the great disturbing forces that were displayed
in the elevation of the Himalayas. The gneissice rocks of this region
are distinguished from the reddish syenitic gneisses of the peninsula by
GEOLOGY. 329

being white or gray in color and are associated with much mica-schist.
Other observers have described, in the region of the Upper Himalayas,
syenitic gneisses resembling those of the peninsular type, succeeded by
various crystalline schists, with greenstones and soft talcoid slates.
_ The Eozoic rocks, to which Hicks, in Wales, gave the name of Pebid-
ian, were some years since compared lithologically with the Huronian.
Hunt, in pointing this out, after his comparative studies in the British
Islands, referred certain crystalline schists in eastern Ireland to the
Montalban series, which, as he had previously shown, is represented in
Donegal and in the Scottish Highlands, where Pebidian rocks are also
largely displayed. Hicks has since found there a series of crystalline
strata, which succeed the Pebidian, and which he has called Upper
Pebidian. These, as they are the predominant rocks in the Grampian
Hills, he proposes to designate the Grampian series. They consist in
large part of tender gneisses or granulites, with mica-schists, and accord-
ing to Hunt have the lithological characteristics of the Montalban series,
as seen in the Alps and in North America.

Callaway has contributed important observations to the question of
the age of the younger gneisses found in northwestern Scotland, in
Dunness, where they are found in close association with an older gneiss.
recognized as Lewisian (Laurentian), a quartzite, a limestone with a
lower Paleozoic (Arenig) fauna, and a younger flaggy gneiss. This
latter, regarded by Nichol and others as pre-Cambrian, has been by
Murchison and his followers supposed to overlie the fossiliferous lime-
stones, and to consist of more recent or so-called Silurian strata in an
altered condition. Callaway has shown that the evidence of this super-
position is defective, and that on the contrary we are forced to conclude
that the flagey gneiss belongs to an older series which underlies uncon-
formably the limestones. The conclusion to be deduced from all the
observations up to this time seems to us to be that the crystalline strata
of the Scottish Highlands, regarded by the geological survey of Great
Britain as altered Paleozoic strata, include representatives of various
pre-Cambrian groups, including Montalban (Grampian), Huronian (Pe-
bidian), and Arvonian, to which series Hicks refers the hdlleflinta
series found in Glencoe.

Callaway has also described the pre-Cambrian rocks of county Wex-
ford in Ireland, and finds beneath, the argillites of the Longmynd group
with Oldhamia, rocks which he compares with the Pebidian and Dime-
tran of Wales and Anglesea. He maintains that there is here no evi-
dence whatever of a gradual passage, such as had been asserted, from
the crystalline to the unerystalline series, either in Wexford or in other
localities examined by him, and elsewhere says: “ every case of sup-
posed metamorphic Cambrian or Silurian has been invalidated by re-
cent researches, and we are driven to the conclusion that within the
English and Welsh area there is a presumption in favor of the suppo-
330 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR i882.

sition that any district of altered rocks that may be discovered is of
Archean age.”

Bonney, continuing his studies in the vicinity of the Lizards, in Corn-
wall, has described the crystalline schists of the region, of which he has
as yet published only a preliminary note. These rocks, once regarded
as altered Paleozoic, are shown to be Eozoic, and are by him divided into
three groups, the first or lowest of which consists of greenish, often
mnicaceous schists, with hornblendic minerals, which he compares with
the Pebidian of North Wales and Anglesea; the second group is char-
acterized by black hornblende, and the third or uppermost is described
as a granulitic group with bands of quartzo-feldspathic rock, the last
two groups being remarkable for their display of bedded structure, and
the three apparently forming one continuous series, with a general
northwest strike. The upper portions recall the Montalban series.
We shall notice further on the serpentines found in these Eozoic rocks,
both in Cornwall and Anglesea, together with those of the Alps.

W. O. Crosby has rendered a service to comparative geognosy by
resuming the facts known with regard to the Eozoic rocks of eastern
South America, where they occupy two great areas, the one north of
the Amazonas, extending east to the Orinoco, which includes the vari-
ous districts known by the name of Guiana; and the other, and still
larger region, to the south of the Amazonas, which forms the highlands
of Brazil. This area, extending through thirty degrees of latitude and
twenty-five degrees of longitude, is separated from the Andean region
by a broad expanse of newer rocks, stretching down to the mouth of
the La Plata. Hartt has shown that these crystalline areas of Guiana
and Brazil were above the sea in the earliest Paleozoic times. They may
be compared both geographically and geolognostically with the Lauren-
tides and the Atlantic belt of North America. . The older observations
of Darwin, Pissis, and Liais with regard to these rocks are confirmed by
the later ones of Hartt and of Derby. The basal rocks of the Bra-
zilian highlands are gneisses, often granitoid, with crystalline limestones,
occasionally serpentinic, with Eozoon. To these succeed a fine-grained
gray gneiss or leptinite, often schistose, followed by mica-schists and
gneisses, with subordinate beds of quartzite. The two types correspond
to the Laurentian and Montalban, respectively. Elsewhere in south-
ern Brazil are found large areas of petrosilex rocks, and of others having
the characters of Huronian. These same great types are also recog-
nized in the Andes, from Peru to Patagonia.

In Guiana, in like manner, there is found a series of aaanitait and
gneissoid rocks, compared by Jannetaz to the older gneisses of Brazil.
Yo these succeed a great series described as felstones and quartzifer-
ous porphyries, which are probably the same with the petrosilexes of
southern Brazil. Accompanying these in Guiana is a series of horn-
blendic and schistose rocks having the characters of the Huronian, suc-
ceeded by a newer series, described as resting in different places upon

— EE EE ee ee
GEOLOGY. Joe

the preceding groups, and consisting largely of gneisses with hornblendic
and micaceous schists, the latter often abounding in garnet and stau-
rolite, and including great veins of endogenous granite, the whole re-
sembling the upper gneisses of Brazil, which appear to belong to the
Montalban series.

It would thus seem that the great series of crystalline rocks marked
by distinct mineralogical characters, which were first defined and named
in eastern North America, are repeated with the same stratigraphical
relations in the British Isles, in central Europe, in Asia, and in South
America.

THE TACONIC ROCKS.

Under the name of the Taconic system, as is generally known, have
been described the quartzites and sandstones, with granular limestones
and intercalated crystalline schists and argillites, found in eastern North
America, which were by Eaton, and subsequently by E. Emmons, as-
signed to a horizon between the older crystalline series and the lower
Paleozoic strata, a portion of which, under the name of Upper Taconic,
was at first included in the Taconic system. The Lower or true Taconic
(Taconian), first recognized in the Taconic range of western New Eng-
Jand, includes the Primal and Auroral of Rogers in eastern Pennsylva-
nia, and the Itacolumite series of Lieber in the Carolinas.

The granular limestones or marbles of the Taconian have been by dif-
ferent geologists referred to various horizons more recent than that
assigned to them by Emmons. They have been regarded as infra-Tren
ton (Calciferous, Chazy, or Quebec group), Trenton, and (Upper) Silurian
or Devonian. Each of these views has been sustained by specious argu-
ments from stratigraphy, and by others based on organic remains found
in rocks supposed to belong to the limestones in question, and found within
the limits of the Taconic belt. That fossils characteristic of each of these
horizons occur in such associations is certain, but whether the great mass
of the limestones belongs to any one of these three, or, as supposed by
others, to a still older Taconic horizon, is a question which many geolo-
gists, unacquainted with the whole of the facts in the case, regard as
unsettled. Hunt has maintained the view of Eaton and of E. Emmons,
that these rocks belong to a series older than the Potsdam sandstone of
New York, and has endeavored to show that they are represented in
their geognostical and lithological relations by the Hastings series of
the geological survey of Canada, which, a little to the north of Lake
Ontario, rests upon the Huronian, and is overlaid unconformably by the
Trenton limestone.

Crosby has pointed out that the resemblances already traced between
the geognosy of eastern North and South America are further shown in
the development of a great series of rocks resembling the Taconian,
alike in Brazil, Guiana, and the island of Trinidad. In Brazil these
have been described as a newer series, resting, according to Derby, un-
332 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882.

conformably upon the older crystalline rocks, and consisting in great part
of quartzites, often granular and sometimes flexible, constituting the
so-called itacolumite, with unctuous talcoid schists, containing hydrous
micas, chloritic and argillite beds, specular schistose iron-ore (itabirite),
and great masses of crystalline limestone. The analogies between this
Brazilian series and the Taconian or Itacolumite series, as studied by Lie-
ber in South Carolina, were long since pointed out by him, and the close
resemblance between a collection of these rocks from the province of
Minas-Geraes, in Brazil, where they are largely developed, and the Ta-
conian in Pennsylvania, was later insisted upon by Hunt. The ancient
series in Brazil has afforded no organic remains, but being unconform-
ably overlaid by older Paleozoic rocks is conjectured by Derby to be
altered Cambrian.

This Itacolumite series is the source of the diamonds of Brazil, as
shown by Gorceix and by Derby. While these gems are also met with in
secondary and derived rocks, they are found in the district of Diaman-
tina, in certain unctuous banded clays which are seen to be derived by
subaerial decay from schistose beds belonging to the Itacolumite series,
which here has a considerable dip to the eastward. These clays are of
various colors (red, white, or black), from disseminated iron-oxide.
Associated with the diamonds in the clays are tourmalines, rutile, ana-
tase, martite, and oligist, most of which minerals have been found in
quartz veins, with pyrites and gold, traversing the Itacolumite series.
Similar clays, derived from the decay of the accompanying schists, are
found with the Taconic quartzites and limestones throughout the Apal-
lachian valley. It is in these that chiefly occur the deposits of limon-
ite derived by epigenesis both from siderite and from pyrite, which are
so extensively mined from Vermont to Alabama.

A similar Itacolumite series is seen in Guiana, and has been compared’

by Jannetaz with that of Brazil. Rocks apparently the same occur
in the island of Trinidad, where they were many years since studied
by Wall and Sawkins, who described them as the Caribbean group.
Since this they have been examined by Guppy, and more recently by
Crosby. This series, which is, according to him, not less than 10,000
feet thick, consists of quartzites, with argillites and hydrous micaschists,
with a great body of crystalline limestone or marble, sometimes mica-
ceous, succeeded by argillites, hydrous mica schists, and sandstones, the
whole, according to Crosby, strongly resembling the Taconian as seen
in Massachusetts. Overlying unconformably this ancient series, which
appears to be unfossiliferous, is a dark-colored, compact, fossiliferous
limestone, with interbedded shales, in which, among many obscure forms,
Guppy recognized Murchkisonia Anna and M. linearis, both found in the
Calciferous sand-rock in Canada.
Analogies both stratigraphical and lithological serve to connect the
Jaribbean group of Trindad with the Taconian and Itacolumite group
of North and South Amewea, and to assign to all these a positien below

CCT
GEOLOGY. aoa

the Cambrian. Inasmuch as the rocks of this infra-Cambrian series in
Ontario contain the remains of HYozoon, the Taconian may be desig-
nated as Eozoic. The great unfossiliferous Sinisian series of China, and
the Vindhyan series of peninsular India, may perhaps be found to belong
to the Taconic horizon, in which connection the association of diamonds
with the latter rocks in India, and with the itacolumite in the southern
United States is not without significance.

PALEOZOIC ROCKS.

The nomenclature of the Lower Paleozoic rocks, from the base of the
Cambrian to the top of the Silurian, has long been a matter of discus-
sion. The Cambrian, as originally defined by Sedgwick, extending
above the Bala group in Wales, included the Llandovery; from which
to the summit of the Ludlow, was the Silurian of Sedgwick (U pper Silu-
rian of Murchison), corresponding to the third fauna of Barrande, and
including in North America the rocks from the base of the Oneida to the
summit of the Lower Helderberg. The Upper Cambrian of Sedgwick,
embracing the Arenig, Llandeilo, and Caradoc divisions (the Bala group),
which hold the second fauna of Barrande, was from the first claimed by
Murchison as a lower member of the Silurian system. Subsequently the
Middle Cambrian, including a large part of the first fauna of Barrande,
was alsoclaimed under the name of Primordial Silurian, Murchison wish-
ing to reserve the name of Cambrian for the lowest division only of the
original Cambrian system (the Bangor group of Sedgwick), which other
geologists have since attempted to annex tothe Silurian; thus obliterating
the Cambrian from geological nomenclature. While this extreme view
has had its advocates, others would maintain entire the Cambrian as
originally defined by Sedgwick, and others still have proposed to limit
the name of Cambrian to the lower and middle divisions, and to give to
the upper division, originally claimed by Murchison as Lower Silurian,
the name of Siluro-Cambrian or of Cambro-Silurian. Lapworth has
adopted a new solntion of the difficulty by giving to the Upper Cam-
brian of Sedgwick (Lower Silurian of Murchison) the name of Ordovi-
cian (sometimes contracted by him to Ordovian), from the Ordovices,
a British tribe who, at the time of the Roman conquet, held North
Wales as the Silures did South Wales. The upper limit of the Ordovi-
cian or second fauna is, according to Hicks, the bottom of the Lower
Llandovery, and its base the summit of the Lower Tremadoc, the so-
called Upper Tremadoe or Arenig being included in the Ordovician.*

In North America the Oneida forms the base of the Silurian, and the
Ordovician will embrace the Loraine, Utica, and Trenton (including the
Birdseye and Black River) divisions of the New York series. The suc-
ceeding Chazy, sometimes absent, perhaps belongs rather to the Ordo-
vician than the Cambrian, which latter, as thus limited, will embrace the

* Geol. Magazine, 11, vi, 1.
334 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882.

Menevian, Potsdam, and Calciferous, including also the Quebec gruup
(Upper Taconic of Emmons).

The base of the Ordovician, as thus defined, is marked by a great
stratigraphical break, attendant on continental movements, in eastern
North America. As a result of these conditions, this series, so largely
developed in the valley of the Saint Lawrence and the great lakes, rests,
as is well known, in many places directly upon the Eozoic crystalline
rocks of the Laurentides and the Adirondacks. To the south and east-
moreover, the effects are seen in the diminished thickness, in changes in
lithological characters, and even in the absence of portions of the series.
Examples of these changed conditions are the absence of the Chazy in
localities where the Trenton rests on the Eozoic, as well as in others,
where it rests on the Calciferous; and, moreover, in the thinning out of
the Trenton itself, and its disappearance, or its replacement by argil-
laceous beds resembling those of the Utica or of the underlying Que-
bee group, as noted by Whitfield and others in the vicinity of Albany.
Similar strata of Ordovician age, as long since pointed out, are found
in eastern Canada, apparently dipping beneath the older Cambrian
(Quebee group), in which they were by Logan included. Recently
Selwyn has found in this region portions of these newer fossiliferous
strata lying to the east of a belt of crystalline Huronian rocks, and rest-
ing directly upon the latter. Such outliers of Ordovician strata, with
fossils of Trenton or Utica age, have now been found in several places
among the crystalline schists of the Green Mountain belt in the prov-
ince of Quebec, in connection with lines of fault and downthrow, which
have protected these newer strata from erosion. Recently, also, Dodge
has found graptolitic slates, referred to this horizon, in Penobscot
County, Maine.

These, and other similar facts show the former extension, under more
or less modified conditions, of Ordovician rocks over the Cambrian, and
still older series to the south and east of the Saint Lawrence, Champlain,
and Hudson valleys. The great belt of uncrystalline sedimentary rocks
stretching throughout these regions along the western base of the erys-
talline range was by Mather, and later by Logan, described as the Hud-
son River group, and supposed to belong to a horizon above the Trenton
limestone; while by Emmons, who subsequently assigned it to a posi-
tion below this limestone, it was called Upper Taconic, and afterwards
was by Logan, who adopted the view of Emmons, named the Quebec
group. Researches in Canada and in Vermont have long since shown
that in this greatly disturbed and involved belt are included fossiliferous
strata, holding all three of the great lower Paleozoic faunas, Cambrian,
Ordovician, and Silurian.

The rocks of the so-called Hudson River group, near Poughkeepsie,
N. Y., have recently been made the subject of studies by Dale, Whit-
field, Dana, and Dwight, with the result of discovering there fossilif-
erous beds referred to the various horizons of the Loraine, Trenton,

GEOLOGY. 335

Chazy, and Calciferous, the beds of the latter yielding an abundant and
remarkable fauna. The strata are here affected by several folds, some
of them involving even the newest strata, and generally have a steep
easterly dip. Recent observations by Dwight show a direct superpo-
sition of Trenton upon the Calciferous, probably unconformably, as is
seen elsewhere in the valley, where the Trenton lies upon the slates of
the so-called Quebec group. The greater portion of this latter doubtless
belongs toa series which includes the typical Calciferous as a stage, but
the stratigraphical relations of the latter, as seen near Poughkeepsie, to
the Cambrian slates remain to be determined.

Marr has lately studied the lower Paleozoic rocks of Bohemia, where he
found the stages B and C of Barrande to rest unconformably upon stage
A, the latter being composed of crystalline rocks, which Marr compares
with the Pebidian of Wales (Huronian); B he considers to represent
the Harlech beds, at the base of the Welsh Cambrian, while C and D
are equivalent to the Lingula flags and the Tremadoce, followed, how-
ever, by representatives of the Arenig and Bala. These divisions thus
include representatives of the first and second faunas of Barrande,
while the succeeding stages E and F contain his third fauna. It is
in D that are found, according to Barrande, what he described as
“colonies” of the third fauna, which he supposed had existed there con-
temporaneously with the second fauna. Marr, however, after detailed
stratigraphical studies, considers these apparent associations to be due
entirely to physical disturbances, or, in other words, that they are to be
explained by faults and folds by which the younger have been involved
in the older strata.

Marr has also discussed the question of nomenclature and classification
of the lower Paleozoic rocks, in opposition to the views of Barrande, and
in support of the use of the term Cambrian in its original and historic
sense. The difficulties in the way of arriving at a general application of
the term Cambrian to the upper division of Sedgwick’s system, which
Murchison, by a mistake in stratigraphy, included in his Silurian, are,
however, so great that its general adoption seems impossible, and it is
to meet this state of things that the distinctive term Ordovician or
rdovian has been proposed for this division of the lower Paleozoic
rocks.

Lapworth, in the Geological Magazine for June and July, 1881, has
made a detailed comparison between the lower Paleozoic rocks of Great
Britain and Seandinavia, and Schmidt has done the same for the Baltie
provinces of Russia.

CLASSIFICATION OF EOZOIC AND PALEOZOIC ROCKS.

For the better understanding of the nomenclature of the great sub-
divisions of the Eozoic and lower Paleozoic rocks referred to in the
preceding pages, a brief summary is subjoined, numbered in ascend-
ing order.
336 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882.

A.—EOZOIC OR ARCHZAN,

1. Laurentian. (Loganand Hunt, 1854.)—Lower Laurentian of Logan.
This, as originally defined by the geological survey of Canada, included
a lower division of granitoid gneiss, apparently without limestones
(Ottawa gneiss of Hunt), and an upper division (Grenville series of
Logan) consisting of gneisses with bands of granular limestone,
quartzite, and iron-ores, a probable unconformity existing between the
two. The lower of these may probably correspond to the Lewisian and
the upper to the Dimetian of Great Britain, and it may be found de-
sirable to adopt the name of Lewisian for the Ottawa gneiss, and to
restrict the name of Laurentian to the Grenville series. Both of these
are probably included in the older gneiss of the Alps.

2. Norian. (Hunt, 1871.)—Upper Laurentian or Labradorian of Lo-
gan. The hypersthenite rocks of Maculloch and Emmons, a series
in which granitoid and gneissoid rocks, essentially composed of anor-
thic feldspars, predominate, with, however, intercalated gneisses, quartz-
ites, and limestones resembling those of the Laurentian.

3. Arvonian. (Hicks, 1878.)—The hélleflinta or petrosilex group of
Sweden and Wales, consisting essentially of granular or eryptocrystal-
line quartzo-feldspathie rocks, often jasper-like, but becoming gneissoid
or porphyritic, interstratified with more or less of argillaceous, chloritic
and hornblendic rocks like those of the succeeding Huronian series, in
the base of which it was at first included in North America, but from
which it seems generally separated both in North America and in Wales
by a stratigraphical break.

4. Huronian. (Hunt, 1855.)\—The Pebidian of Hicks, and the lower
part of the pietre verdi or greenstone group of Italy.

5. Montalban. (Hunt, 1871.)—The younger gneisses, leptinites, horn-
blendic and micaceous schists of North America and central Europe;
the Upper Pebidian or Grampian of Hicks; included by Gastaldi in the
pietre verdi zone of northern Italy.

6. Taconian. (Hunt, 1878.)—Primitive quartz-rock, lime-rock, and
argillite of Eaton; Lower Taconic of Emmons. Primal, Auroral, and
Matinal of Rogers, in eastern Pennsylvania; Itacolumite group of
Lieber.

[In 1870, the name of Terranvan was proposed by Hunt to include
the groups above numbered 5 and 6; but was abandoned by him in
1871, when the name of Montalban was suggested for 5.]

7. IKeweenian.—The name of Keweenaw group, 1873, and Keweenian,
1876, was employed by Hunt to distinguish the so-called Upper Cop-
per-bearing rocks of Lake Superior, which have been shown to be
younger than the Huronian and Montalban, and older than the Cam-
brian (Potsdam). Though they occupy a horizon not far from the Ta-
conian they differ widely from it in character, and constitute a distinct
series whose chronological relations to the latter cannot yet be deter-
mined.
GEOLOGY. Bair

B.—PALEOZOIC.

8. Cambrian.—Lower and Middle Cambrian of Sedgwick ; Cambrian
and Primordial Silurian of Murchison, containing the first fauna of
Barrande. Embracesin North America the Menevian or Acadian, the
Potsdam and Calciferous divisions of the New York system, and the
Upper Taconic of Emmons or Quebee group of Logan.

9. Ordovician or Ordovian. (Lapworth, 1879.)—Upper Cambrian of
Sedgwick; Lower Silurian of Murchison; Cambro-Silurian and Siluro-
Cambrian of others, containing the second fauna of Barrande. Em-
braces in North America the Chazy, Trenton, Utica, and Loraine divi-
sions of the New York system.

10. Silurian. (Sedgwick)—Upper Silurian of Murchison, containing
the third fauna of Barrande. Includes in North America the Oneida,
Clinton, Niagara, and Lower Helderberg, of the New York system, with
the intercalated Onondaga or Saliferous group.

11. Devonian, or Erian of Dawson; the Hrie division of the New York
system.

12. Carboniferous.

PALEOZOIC ROCKS OF COLORADO.

S. I. Emmons has given in the report of the United States geological
survey for 1881, an account of the geology of the Leadville district in
Colorado, where the Paleozoic rocks are associated withnumerous erupt-
ive masses and contain large deposits of argentiferous lead-ores, which
have given to the region its economic importance. To the west of the
Front or Colorado Range rises, with a gentle slope to the east, the Mus-
quito or Park Range, attaining 11,000 feet, and sinking abruptly on
the west to the Arkansas Valley. This, which is sixty miles long and
fifteen miles wide, is limited to the west by the broad and lofty Sa-
watch Range. Within the valley, on the western flank of the Musquito
Range, is situated Leadville, 10,150 feet above the sea. We here find
reposing on the Eozoic rocks of the range a series of Paleozoic strata
consisting in ascending order (1) of 200 feet of strata, chiefly quartzites,
described as Cambrian; (2) 200 feet of white dolomitic Silurian lime-
stone, to which succeed (3) about 4,000 feet of Carboniferous strata,
having at their base 200 feet of blue limestone, and at the summit from
1,000 to 1,500 feet, the Weber grits and shales intervening. The Kanab
section on the Colorado exhibits a similar thickness, a remarkable con-
trast with the Wahsatch in Utah, where King found a series of 30,000
feet of Paleozoic strata, including at the base 12,000 feet of sandstones
and shales, regarded as Cambrian, but without observed fossils save in a
few feet at the top, which carry a Potsdam fauna. The Mesozoic of the
Leadville region, which probably attained 1,000 feet, has been removed,
but the Paleozoic strata include eruptive rocks, mostly of the Mesozoic
period. These, which are described as quartziferous porphyries, some-
times granite-like, and diorites, are found in the Paleozoic series as inter-

H. Mis. 26 22

338 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882.

posed sheets, which were spread out between deep-lying sedimentary
strata before the folding and faulting of the latter. A layer of white
quartziferous porphyry overlies the blue limestone in the lower part of
the Carboniferous, and varies from 1,000 to 100 feet in thickness, or thins
out altogether. Other sheets of eruptive rock are found in the quartz-
ite below and at various other horizons, in parts of the region as high
as the Jurassic. The ores of the district, principally argentiferous
galena, and the products of its alteration, are found chiefly in the blue
limestone beneath the great porphyry sheet, but also in the white dol-
omite below, and evenin the quartzite. They occur, as is usually the
case in deposits of this nature, in irregular cavities in the limestone. Em-
mons is disposed to believe the source of the metals to be in the eruptive
rocks, from which they have been dissolved by infiltrating waters and
deposited among the sedimentary rocks. But it is to be remembered
that we find similar ore-deposits in limestones where eruptive rocks are
absent, as in parts of Nevada, for example, and in the Mississippi Val-
ley. The deposition of the ores at Leadville is, however, shown to have
been posterior to the intrusion of the igneous rocks and anterior to the
faulting of the strata.

GRAND CANON OF THE COLORADO.

Dutton, in his studies of the Grand Cafion district, just published by
the United States Geological Survey, has given important details with
regard to its geological history, which throw light on the differences ob-
served in the thickness of the Paleozoic rocks in different parts of the
great western region. He shows that while Cambrian, Silurian, and
Devonian beds are frequently met with, the great Carboniferous series,
for the most part, rests directly in this region on the Eozoic. Where
the older Paleozoic strata underlie the Carboniferous, they are uncon-
formable and have been subject to erosion. This is the case in Nevada,
Utah, and in central and western Arizona. Beginning at the base of
the Carboniferous, there is throughout this region apparently a contin-
uous and conformable series of sediments to the top of the Cretaceous.
The Grand Caiion of the Colorado, some 5,000 or 6,000 feet in depth, is
excavated from 4,000 to 4,500 feet in the Carboniferous, the remainder
being in Eozoic and in some parts in lower Paleozoic strata. The
Carboniferous here has at its base about 1,800 feet of limestone, followed
by shales and sandstone, and terminated by about 700 feet of limestone.
Above this come Permian, Triassic, Jurassic, and Cretaceous rocks, suc-
ceeded by the Eocene, which forms the High Plateau region of southern
Utah, the interval from the top of the Eocene to the Carboniferous be-
ing there from 4,000 to 5,000 feet. Eastward, towards the Uinta Mount-
ains, the Eocene itself, however, attains a greater thickness, making
there the whole volume of deposits above the Carboniferous not less
than 10,000 feet. Dutton concludes that while the lower limestones of
the Carboniferous were formed in somewhat deep water, the whole

GEOLOGY. 339

of the succeeding deposits were laid down in shallow seas near tide-
level, thus indicating a gradual subsidence from Carboniferous time,
going on pari passu with sedimentation. The Cretaceous sea, which
marked the close of this order of things, appears to have extended from
the Gulf of Mexico to the Pacific, with the exception of narrow land-
areas. At the close of the period, great movements took place in this
area, followed by erosion, which allowed Eocene fresh-water beds to be
deposited in some places over Jurassic strata to the thickness in parts,
as we have seen, of 5,000 feet. It is difficult to separate the succeeding
Miocene from the later Eocene, and we have here no evidence of Plio-
cene deposits. These were times of gradual emergence. At the close
of the Miocene was an uplift of 2,000 or 5,000 feet, and at the close of
the Pliocene a still greater one of 3,000 or 4,000 feet. In these later
Tertiary times came the great north and south faults of the Plateau
region, already described by Powell, producing displacements of many
thousand feet, and bringing in one case the Eocene against the Carbon-
iferous.

The great and widely-spread volcanic activities of the region began in
Miocene and continued until recent times. The first erosion of the Grand
Cafion took place at the close of the Cretaceous, or a little later. The
process went on rapidly through the subsequent times of elevation, but
has now reached a period of comparative quiescence. The glacial age,
succeeding the Pliocene, was, according to Dutton, here marked by
pluvial rather than glacial action.

J. J. Stevenson, in a report on the geological survey under Captain
Wheeler, has given details of the geology of parts of southern Colorado
and New Mexico, along a continuation of the Sangre de Cristo Range, of
which he notices the Eozoic rocks, before designated by Hunt as in
part, at least, Laurentian. Upon these, to the eastward, rest Carbonif-
erous strata, while farther east Cretaceous strata repose either directly
upon the latter or upon the Eozoic, together with some beds which may
be Jura-Trias, and elsewhere Tertiary rocks. Stevenson discusses at
some length the relations of the Laramie group, and gives new reasons
for believing it to be true Upper Cretaceous.

TRIAS OF EASTERN NORTH AMERICA.

W. M. Davis has studied the Trias of the Atlantic border, with its
included trappean (diabasic) rocks, as seen in the Connecticut Valley
and in New Jersey. These igneous rocks, according to him, occur in
three different relations to the associated sandstone: (1) as dikes cut-
ting the strata, (2) as intruded sheets, often of great extent and thick-
ness, lying in nearly all cases conformably between the layers of sedi-
mentary rock ; (3) as overflowed sheets, equal in extent and thickness
to the last, but poured out at the surface during the formation of the
sandstones. . Examples of the dikes are seen near New Haven, Conn.,
from 100 to 200 feet thick, with a transverse columnar structure. These
340 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882.

mark probably the channels through which the material of the great
sheets was brought up. They have produced a very limited alteration
proportionate to their breadth, of the adjacent strata. The beds of
trap of the second class have altered the sedimentary strata both above
and below them, and are not accompanied by amygdaloids. To this
class belong, according to Davis, the Palisades of the Hudson and the
range from West Rock northward near New Haven. To this may be
added a great dike at Lambertville, on the Delaware, above which
tourmaline, epidote, and specular iron have been developed in the
sandstone. The existence in the regions in question of trappean
masses of the third class, or overflows, has not been generally
recognized, although maintained by Edward Hitchcock for the Con-
necticut Valley, and also by Dawson for the Trias of Nova Scotia.
These subaerial or subaqueous beds are generally very amygdaloidal in
their upper portions, and sometimes at their base. The underlying sed-
imentary rock is but slightly affected,and the overlying bed not at all.
Tufaceous layers sometimes accompany these overflows, and fragments of
trap are occasionally found in the overlying sediments. These, as Daw-
son has shown, are frequent in Nova Scotia. Examples of these over-
flows are seen in Mounts Tom and Holyoke, in the Connecticut Valley,
and in their continuation in the Hanging Hills of Meriden; also, as
lately shown by Professor Emerson, in the Deerfield mass. Davis next
proceeds to consider the question of the general monoclinal arrange-
ment of the strata in the two Triassic areas in question, the dip in the
Connecticut Valley being to the eastward at angles generally from 10°
to 20°, and more, and in New Jersey and Pennsylvania to the westward,
with a similar inclination. H.D. Rogers supposed an original obliquity
of deposition; Kerr, a broad anticlinal fold in originally horizontal
strata, the belts of eastward and westward dipping beds representing
respectively the eastern and western portions of such anticlinals, from
which the remainder had been removed by erosion; while E. Hitchcock
and Le Conte imagined a simple monoclinal tilting. This would involve
an enormous thickness of strata, amounting, as Persifor Frazer has
shown, to over 50,000 feet for one measured section in Pennsylvania, a
conclusion for many reasons inadmissible. In the view of Davis, lateral
compression of the horizontally deposited beds produced a series of
folds with peculiar distortion, having the form of long, ‘ shallow oval
dishes or boats, of gentle curvature, canted over a little, and faulted
on the side of the general monoclinal dip.” A careful study of the over-
flows has enabled him to establish well-marked horizons, and thus sat-
isfactory evidence is obtained that the strata have been both folded and
faulted. In this way is explained the general crescent-like forms of the
trappean beds, which everywhere present their convex sides to the up-
ward slope; that is to say, westward in the Connecticut Valley and
eastward in New Jersey. The great intruded sheets of trap which occur
GEOLOGY. 341

only near the base of the sandstone series are compared with the west-
ern Jaccolites. ;

It is satisfactory to find that the monoclinal structure of these Meso-
zoic areas is due to an arrangement not unlike that which is to be met
witb in the Paleozoic and still older rocks along the western border of
the Atlantic belt from Quebec to Alabama, where, as the result of faults
with uplifts on the eastward side, the newer rocks not only seem to
pass beneath the older, but in many cases are actually overlaid by them.
J. J. Stevenson has lately re-examined and carefully mapped the suc-
cessive parallel faults in southwest Virginia, by which the basal beds
of the Paleozoic are repeatedly brought up against the coal measures.

SERPENTINE ROCKS.

Serpentine was, by the older geologists, regarded as intrusive, and
by many supposed to be derived from various eruptive rocks by a proc-
ess of metasomatosis, while others have supposed it to be formed, as
is doubtless often the case, by epigenesis from olivine rock, which was
also regarded as eruptive. The late studies by Brégger and others of
the olivine rocks of Norway have shown these to be clearly of aqueous
origin, and contemporaneous with the inclosing strata, thus supporting
the views of those who have always held to the aqueous origin of the
great rock-masses of serpentine.

The serpentines of Anglesea, of Cornwall and of parts of Scotland are,
according to Bonney, to be regarded as intruded among the accompany-
ing erystalline schists, while Hicks and others regard these same ser-
pentines in Anglesea and in Scotland as contemporaneous stratified de-
posits in Huronian (Pebidian) rocks. The indigenous character of the
serpentines and gabbros from the granulite rocks of Saxony is, accord-
ing to Credner, not doubtful. These latter, as already noticed, are
probably to be referred to the Montalban or younger gneiss series, in
which, as Hunt has shown, are included also the bedded serpentines
and olivine rocks found in the Blue Ridge in North Carolina.

The question of the eruptive or the indigenous character of the simi-
lar serpentine rocks (often containing olivine) found in the upper gneisses
of the St. Gothard has been discussed at length by Stapft, who has had
a favorable opportuity of studying them in directing the construction
of the railway-tunnel just opened through that mountain. He main-
tains, with regard to the origin of serpentines, the view first put forth
by Hunt, that the material of these serpentine rocks was originally de-
posited from water, as hydrous magnesian silicates, in conformably inter-
posed beds among the inclosing sediments. _

In the subsequent crystallization of the sediments he supposes the
magnesian silicate to have become an anhydrous olivine or enstatite-
rock, from which by epigenesis at a later period serpentine has been
formed, a process not yet complete, as shown by the presence of included
grains of olivine. Movements of the eartl’s crust by folding and fault-
342 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882.

ing have distorted and broken up the magnesian strata, and have
forced the tough and hard rock through or along fissures in the surround-
ing and more yielding strata, thus giving rise to the deceptive appear-
ance of intrusion. Stapft adduces evidence to show that these displace-
ments took place while these rocks were in the solid state, and cites the -
existence of polished and striated surfaces, and of fissures filled with a
friction-breccia as evidence of this. In parts of the section at the St.
Gothard, the conformable interstratification of the serpentine with other
rocks is apparent.

In some parts of Italy, notably in Tuscany and Liguria, are areas oy
serpentine which, appearing in regions among Tertiary strata, have
been by most geologists regarded as eruptive and posterior to these.
These serpentines are, however, accompanied by euphotides and schist-
ose rocks, and are admitted to resemble very closely the serpentines
which, with similar associations, are found in the pietre verdi or Hu-
ronian series of northern Italy. Gastaldi, as is well known, asserted
that these so-called newer and eruptive serpentines were but portions of
this underlying ancient series, which, as the result of uplifts, faults, and
erosions, are exposed in the midstof more recent deposits. This opinion,
although much controverted, is shared by Jervis and by Hunt. The
latter, from his examinations of these rocks, in parts of Liguria and of
Tuscany, maintains that this view is the only one in accordance with
the facts.

ANTHRACITE COAL.

The generally received opinion that anthracite has been formed by a
subsequent alteration of bituminous coal, and is in some way connected
with disturbance of the inclosing strata, has beencontested. The present
writer has long maintained that differences connected with the original
conditions of formation have givenrise to the anthracite, bituminous, and
semi-bituminous coals of Pennsylvania, which “ have been the result of
decompositions going on at ordinary temperatures.” Later studies by
Franklin Platt, of the geological survey of that State (Report G G.),
are in point. In Sullivan County, to the northwest of the great anthra-
cite region, where the strata are affected only by broad, gentle undula-
tions, is a small outlying coal-area known as the Bernice or Loyalsock
basin. Here are exposed two coal-seams near the base of the measures.
The upper one, eleven feet thick, lying beneath eighty feet or more of
thin-bedded sandstones, is an anthracite, while sixty-five feet below is a
seam of two feet, beneath five feet of shale, which has the composition of a
semi-bituminous coal. The ratio of volatile matters to the fixed carbon,
deducting ash, water, and sulphur, is, according to Mr. Creath, for the
first, 1:10.289; and for the second, 1:4.182. Another seam in this
basin not certainly identified with either of the above consists of two
benches separated by six feet of shale, the upper bench being semi-
bituminous and the loweran anthracite, with ratios, respectively, 1: 2.527
cn a

GEOLOGY. 343

and 1:6.932. The upper coal of the Bernice basin is largely mined and
sold as anthracite, but is softer, and lacks the usual conchoidal fracture,
resembling rather that of the Lykens Valley than the more eastern.
anthracites.

CHEMICAL GEOLOGY.

That watery solutions have been the efficient agents in the formation

| of metalliferous deposits is now generally admitted, alike for those con-

temporaneous with the stratification, and for posterior accumulations,
whether in cavities produced by erosion, as in limestone rocks, or in
fissures resulting from movements in the earth’s crust. That the proc-
ess of the transport and deposition of metals by solutions has been
going on from very early geological periods to the present has also been
recognized. The comparative recency of deposits like the great gold
and silver bearing Comstock lode, for example, is well known, and Phil-
lips and Rolland have shown that thermal waters are even now giving
rise to deposits of sulphureted ores, which lead to the conclusion that
the great lode in question has been formed by mineral solutions, of which
the hot springs of the vicinity are the actual representatives:

In the Coast Range of California the Cretaceous and Tertiary strata
were greatly disturbed at the close of the Miocene, following which, as
is well known, was a period of volcanic activity prevailing through Plio-
cene time and perhaps later. The springs of heated waters charged
with soluble and gaseous sulphids (solfataras), still abundant in the re-
gion, are probably connected with this former vuleanism. Of this solfa-
taric action the Sulphur Bank, as it is called, on Clear Lake, ninety
miles north of San Francisco, furnishes a remarkable example. Herea
layer of volcanic rock, described as augite-andesite, which overlies the
highly inclined sedimentary strata, is found decayed at the surface to a
white granular earth, while lower down in the mass are “ bowlders of
decomposition,” consisting of nuclei of the’same rock, still undecomposed.
The interstices of the mass are filled with crystalline sulphur, which in
descending is replaced by cinnabar. An open cutting to a depth of about
forty feet in the nearly vertical sedimentary strata, not far from the edge
of the voleanic cap, discloses between harder layers a stratum consist-
ing of a soft breccia of fragments of sandstone and shale, with interposed
bluish clay or mud, impregnated with cinnabar and pyrites, through
which rise hot alkaline waters, carrying sulphydric, carbonic, and boric
acids. The outcrop of this bed of rubble or breccia has been traced, and
elsewhere mined for cinnabar.

Messrs. Joseph Le Conte and W. B. Rising have described further
observations made in levels driven from a shaft sunk with the object of
exploring the strata beneath the lava-cap. One level, at a depth of 150
feet, after traversing seventy feet or more of barren sandstone and shale,
comparatively dry and cool, reached a belt of brecciated rock made up
of fragments of sandstone and shale resembling that already described,
344 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882.

and like it serving as a channel through which rise waters having a tem-
perature of 160° I., holding carbonates and sulphids of sodium and
ammonium with borates and sulphureted hydrogen; free carbonic
acid bubbling up abundantly. The interstices of this breccia are lined
with cinnabar, pyrites, and silica, the first predominating, and -some-
times alternating with the silica, which is gelatinous, caseous, and occa-
sionally chaleedonic in character. This irregular metalliferous deposit,
now in process of formation, is in large part in the brecciated stratum,
but is not confined thereto, sometimes disappearing, to reappear in
another stratum, with barren rock between, and at other times diffused
through the shattered sandstone on one side or the other of the bree-
cia.. The authors conceive this to have been originally a stratum of
breccia, which, being less coherent than the adjacent beds, presented a
plane of weakness, and was more shattered by the movements of the
strata than they. Where the inclination was less steep, however, the
disruption, and consequently the ore-bearing fissures, extended to the
adjacent beds. These deposits, which are wrought for cinnabar, con-
tain no sulphur, except near the surface, where its separation is due to
the action of atmospheric oxygen. The agency of the aikaline sulphids
in transporting and depositing the cinnabar seems clear. Details of
the condition of the sulphids and the silica are wanting, but this locality
yields beautifully crystallized cinnabar enclosed in opaline silica. J. A.
Phillips moreover has shown that the silica deposited from certain
thermal waters in California, and from the Steamboat Springs in Washoe
County, Nevada, is of the nature of crystalline quartz.

The authors insist upon the twofold character of the action going on
in connection with these solfataras. The oxidation of sulphureted
hydrogen under certain conditions gives rise, as is well known, to sul-
phuric acid, which, carried downward by atmospheric waters, exerts a
solvent action on the decaying rocks and by neutralizing the ascending
alkaline waters, helps to diminish their solvent power, to which result,
however, diminished temperature and pressure contribute. These
studies are important as throwing light on the formation of veins and
other posterior deposits of minerals in rock-masses. When we recall,
in this connection, the effects of thermal waters, as seen in the masonry
of ancient Roman baths, where various crystalline silicates and other
mineral species have been developed in historic times, we are able to
understand many cases of so-called local metamorphism, not only in
visible proximity to igneous masses, but elsewhere in sediments far
removed from such, where faults or permeable strata have served as
channels to heated waters from below. Matters dissolved in these
waters, and others present in the sediments, contribute alike under
these conditions to the genesis of crystalline minerals.

Hunt has described the reactions going on independent of solfatarie
or thermal waters in the auriferous gravel of California. This consists
in large part of the ruins of feldspathic and hornblendie rocks, holding
GEOLOGY. 345

pyrites and lignite in the form of scattered trunks of trees. Where it is,
from drainage, subjected to subaerial decay, the pyrites is oxidized,
and the silicates are decomposed with liberation of bases and much
silica, which is deposited in a crystalline form in the fissures and cavi-
ties of the gravel, and also produces a veritable petrifaction of the lig-
nite, by a process which is marked by three stages. The first of these
is the filling up of the pores in the wood, the organic tissues remain-
ing; the second, the slow removal of these by oxidation, and the third,
a filling up the vacant spaces thus left. After the second stage, the
silicious casts of coniferous .wood are often separable in the form of
fibers which have been mistaken for asbestos. A similar condition of
things has been observed by Kerr in the auriferous gravels of North
Carolina, where also the decay of silicates and the silicification of fossil
wood is going on.

The oxide of tin, cassiterite, which, like quartz, occurs cry SEES = in
ancient granitic Sea appears like it also to have been deposited
from solutions in recent times. Collins, in the Transactions of the Royal
Geological Society of Cornwall, has described his examinations of deer’s
horns from the tin-bearing gravels of the region, which are impregnated
with cassiterite, and even contain visible crystals of the mineral. Some
of these horns are so rich in tin-ore as to be sought by the smelter. -A
specimen examined by Collins of the horn of the red deer (Cervus ela-
phus) contained 2.6 per cent. of oxide of tin and 1.6 per cent. of pyrites,
both of which were seen by the microscope to be inclosed in the cells
of the horn. The process of stannification is thus, like that of silicifi-
cation, one in progress in modern times, though under conditions as yet
unknown to us.
tore ene

GEOGRAPHY.

By Commander F. M. GREEN, U. S. Navy.

In considering the geographical work of the world in 1881 and 1882,
while there does not seem to be any startling fact or great discovery
to announce, it is evident that the general interest in geographical
studies and researches is not diminishing. So many nations are taking
an active part in the endeavor to solve geographical problems; so many
interests, commercial, scientific, political, and missionary, are earnestly
pushing inquiry in every direction, that each year the field for extensive
and striking discovery becomes more limited. English, French, Ger-
mans, and Belgians have been vying with each other to discover new
regions where their trade may be extended, and new routes by which
merchandise may be transported with ease and economy; especially is
this the case in Africa.

Large portions of South America, Asia, Africa, and Australia still
remain comparatively unexplored, and for many years to come ample
opportunities will be afforded for the scientific traveler to complete
our knowledge of details in regions imperfectly known.

As soon as any discovery of any importance is made it is at once
published to the world, in English, German, and French, in the excel-
lent geographical periodicals, from which, in fact, this summary is

condensed.

At the meeting of the British Association, at York, in September,
1881, it being the fiftieth anniversary of the foundation of the associa-
tion, especial attention was paid in the geographical section to a review
of the progress of geographical knowledge during the last fifty years,
and a most valuable essay, by the hydrographer to the Admiralty, Sir
F. J. Evans, on the progress of hydrographic surveys, was read.

Sir Frederic Evans called special attention to the increased accuracy
in determining astronomically geographical positions, particularly with
reference to longitudes. Of the fifty positions selected some years ago
for secondary meridians by the Admiralty, the longitudes of thirty either
have been exactly verified, or are in course of verification, by means of
the electric telegraph, nineteen of these verifications being made by the
labors of officers of the United States Navy and Coast Survey.

An extensive work of this sort has just been completed by United

347
348 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882.

States naval officers who have measured differences of longitude through
submarine cables from Madras, by way of Singapore, Hong-Kong,
Shanghai, and Nagasaki, to Wladiwostok in Siberia, connecting there
with the chain of measurements made from Pulkowa Observatory by
Russian officers, and joining at the Madras end to the Indian longitudes
also determined electrically from Greenwich by officers of the great
trigonometrical survey of India.

So accurately is it now possible to perform work of this kind that the
great polygon from Greenwich by way of Suez, India, China, Japan,
Siberia, and Russia, back to Greenwich, closes with an error only of
thirty-nine one-hundredths of a second of time.

HYDROGRAPHY.

In almost all parts of the world hydrographic surveys have been
progressing by the labors of officers of different nations, although the
year has witnessed neither the inception nor the completion of any great
undertaking. In considering the constant hydrographic work in prog-
ress on the shores of our own country, as well as others, it must be
borne in mind that from the nature of the work it must be practically
interminable, for no sooner is a chart of a harbor or coast line published
than corrections are made necessary by the changes in the bottom, and
consequent depths of water, caused by the action of tidal and other cur-
rents, as well as by the never-ceasing elevations and depressions of the
shore line, which geologists tell us are all the time going on.

On the coast of the United States the work has been prosecuted zeal-
ously by the officers of the United States Coast Survey, some of the more
important pieces of hydrographic work performed being, in Maine, the
survey of Dyer’s and Gouldsborough bays; in Massachusetts, the exam-
ination of Salem and Gloucester harbors and of Pollock Rip shoal; in
New York, the resurvey of the lower bay of New York; an examina-
tion of changes in Delaware and Chesapeake bays; a resurvey of Chin--
coteague shoals; a resurvey of Norfolk harbor; examination of shoals on
the coasts of North and South Carolina; aresurvey of Beaufort harbor;
continuation of the hydrographic survey of the east and west coasts of
Florida, including the bars of Saint George’s sound and Pensacola har-
bor; a resurvey of Key West harbor, and a continuation nearly to com-
pletion of the coast of Texas. On the Pacific coast, the general hydro-
graphic survey of the Californian coast has been continued, as well as
a survey of bays, inlets, and ports in Puget Sound, and a reconnaissance
of the waters of Southern Alaska.

The only important surveys executed under the orders of the Navy
Department have been on the west coast of Mexico, by Commander
Philip, in the U.S. 8. Ranger, and a survey of the Bay of Samana, in the
island of Santo Domingo, by Commander Bridgeman in the U. S. S.
Despatch. This survey embraced the Yuna and Barracouta Rivers as
GEOGRAPHY. 849

far as navigable. In the circulation and exchange ot important hydro-
graphic information and the correction and publication of charts, the
United States Hydrographic Office has silently and unostentatiously
contributed a very great deal to geographic knowledge.

The Coast Survey, from an early period in its existence, has devoted
much time and expense to investigations of the currents and tempera-
ture of the Gulf Stream; but the appliances for both sounding and
ascertaining temperatures were very imperfect. The invention and per-
fection of the wire sounding-machine and the deep-sea thermometers
have afforded opportunities for correcting former errors and discovering
new features in hydrographic science, so that the results of the last ten
year’s work are of more importance as far as our knowledge of the deep
sea goes than all the work done before. During the last two years
Commander J. R. Bartlett in the U. 8. Coast Survey Steamer Blake
has been engaged in an examination of the Gulf Stream not only after
its full development has been reached on the coast of the United States,
but where the currents manifest themselves at the entrances from the
Atlantic Ocean to the Caribbean Sea.

From the very numerous soundings and temperatures taken during
Commander Bartlett’s cruises, and previously by Commander Sigsbee,
in the Gulf of Mexico, the following deductions may be drawn, subject,
however, to modification in minor details:*

The equatorial current of the North Atlantic is deflected northward
by the coast of South America, a portion of it passing along the shore
of the Spanish Main, between Grenada and Trinidad. A larger portion,
however, pours into the Caribbean Sea, between the Windward Islands,
and another part, proceeding westward, north of Hayti, enters the Carib-
bean Sea by the Windward Passage, still more continuing along the
north shore of Cuba to the Straits of Florida. The water, warmed by the
sun while passing over a series of shoals and banks, is several degrees
warmer at the Windward Passage than at the Windward Islands.
Proceeding westward, the current, entering the Gulf of Mexico from the
Caribbean Sea, does not make the circuit of the Gulf, and has no nee-
essary connection with the currents of the Gulf of Mexico, but passes
to the northward and eastward, issuing from the Straits of Florida with
such addition as may come from between Cuba and the Bahama Bank.

The temperature of the Gulf Stream, in the early part of its course,
rarely exceeds 83° in June and July, except under a very hot sun in
calm weather. By carefully measuring the area of the cross-section of
the stream between Jupiter Inlet and the Little Bahama Bank, as well
as its velocity, it is shown that the deiivery is very much less than the
amount called for by the volume of warm water extending over the At-
lantic Ocean from Cuba to Norway, and heretofore ascribed to the out-

*¥or these deductions the compiler is indebted to an excellent article in the Nation,
October 5, 1882. \
350 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882.

pour from the Gulf. The stream varies from 50 to 100 miles in width, and
its velocity and temperature are both greater in the middle than on the
edges. The maximum rate of the current observed is said to be five
miles per hour, and its average rate is perhaps two and a half.

Instead of running in a trough, as some observers have described it,
the stream from the Bahama Banks to Hatteras passes over a rather
even plateau, growing narrower to the northward. The mistake of sup-
posing a trough or groove toexist has evidently been made by the cur-
rent carrying away the bight of the sounding-line, and thus a greater
depth being shown. This error is common to all soundings made with
rope in a current. The bottom in the path of the stream, at 400 fath-
oms, seems to be swept clean down to the hard coral rock. The cold
bands described by previous observers do not seem to have been met
with, and appear to have been due to local rain-squalls or other causes
producing accidental inequalities of temperature. Before the limits and
velocity of the Labrador or inshore cold current can be described: accu-
rately, further soundings and serial temperatures are necessary.

A deep-sea thermometer devised by Dr. Siemens was used on board
the Blake, and was found principally useful in verifying the tempera-
tures, which can be ascertained with much more ease and rapidity by
the Miller-Casella thermometer.

The action of the Siemens thermometer depends upon the variations
in the electrical resistance of metals caused by changes of temperature.
Two resistance coils, one of which is so arranged as to be lowered into
the sea to any required depth, are connected with a Wheatstone’s bridge
and a Thomson’s mirror galvanometer. The galvanometer being ad-
justed to show zero when the resistances experienced by the coils are
equal, the resistance of the coil on board ship is made equal to that of
the one lowered overboard by applications of ice or warm water, and its
temperature, which will be that of the submerged coil, ascertained by an
ordinary thermometer. Jn all trials the accuracy and trustworthiness
of the Miller-Casella deep-sea thermometer were demonstrated. As
opportunities offer this examination of the Gulf Stream is being con-
tinued.

Under the direction of the British Admiralty, hydrographic surveys
have been prosecuted on the shores of Great Britain, in the Red Sea
and Indian Ocean, and on the coasts of Borneo, China, Corea, Japan,
Australia, the Fiji Islands, West Indies, and Newfoundland, employing
five sloops of war, six smaller vessels, seventy-nine officers and nearly
six hundred men.

The officers of the Indian marine survey have continued the survey
of the long Indian coast line and the publication of excellent charts.

French surveyors have been engaged in perfecting detailed surveys
of the French coasts and the northern coasts of Africa and correcting
the charts of the Grecian Archipelago, while pushing forward the sur-
veys of the coasts and rivers of Cochin China and the Gulf of Tonquin.
GEOGRAPHY. 351

Under the direction of a Government commission composed of MM.
Milne-Edwards, Vaillant, Perrier, Marion, de Falin, and Fischer, the
French gunboat “le Travailleur,” commanded by Lieutenant Richard,
has carried out an extensive programme of sounding and dredging in
the Bay of Biscay, off the coast of Portugal, and in the eastern part of
the Mediterranean Sea. The greatest depths found were 2,789 fathoms
in the Atlantic, and 1,454 fathoms in the Mediterranean.

The Spanish Government has undertaken a new survey of the Med-
iterranean shores of the Spanish kingdom, and are also energetically
pushing a survey of the entire Philippine group.

FIGURE OF THE EARTH.

In Appendix No. 8 to the United States Coast Survey Report for 1879,
Mr. ©. A. Schott discusses the deflection of the plumb line along the
oblique are from Calais, Me., to Atlanta, Ga., and demonstrates the su-
perior accuracy of Clarke’s elements of the spheroid figure of the earth
over those determined by Bessel. So evident is this superiority that
the substitution of Clarke’s spheroid for Bessel’s as the surface of de-
velopment for all Coast Survey maps of the Atlantic and Gulf coasts
is recommended, it having already been adopted for the charts of the
Pacific coast. When this are, already 1,200 miles long, is extended 44°
farther to Mobile Point, the Atlantic and Gulf coast systems of triangu-
lation will be united, and the value of the arc for geodetic purposes will
be increased 25 per cent.

The European Association for the Measurement of Degrees, formed
by geodesists of various nations in 1861 under the auspices of Lieuten-
ant-General von Baeyer, and having for its objects the measurement of
ares of meridian and parallel, are making arrangements for the comple-
tion of an arc measurement extending from Palermo to Levanger in
Norway.

Work is now in progress to connect the general system of Swedish
triangulation from a point on the frontier south of Christiania with
Levanger as well as another point in Sweden farther north. This meas-
urement will give an arc covering 255° of latitude, and its discussion
will afford a valuable addition to geodetic knowledge.

Renewed interest has been manifested within the last few years in
the observations of pendulum vibrations as bearing on the figure and
density of the earth, and pendulum work which had been suspended for
many years has been resumed by the Government surveys in Europe,
America, and India. The pendulum so well used by Major Herschel,
R. E., in the work of the great trigonometrical survey of India, has been
carried by Mr. Edwin Smith of the United States Coast Survey, to
he stations in New Zealand where he observed the transit of Venus
in December last, and he will observe its vibrations there, and afterward
at Batavia, Hong-Kong, Tokio, Point Barrow, and San Francisco.
352 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882.

NORTH AMERICA.

The geographical work of the United States Coast Survey has con-
sisted, as heretofore, of topographic surveys for the exact definition and
delineation of the shore line, hydrographic surveys and resurveys where
changes have taken place, of the coast, harbors, and rivers, and in the
interior the continuation of the observations for the connection by tri-
angulation of the Atlantic and Pacific coasts, as well as astronomical de-
termination of important inland points and the carrying of a double line
of geodesic levels from the Atlantic coast at Sandy Hook to the Missis-
sippi River at Saint Louis. This line of levels is marked by permanent
bench-marks from 2, to 40 miles apart, and when completed to San Fran-
cisco will be of great value in furnishing reference points for measure-
ments of elevation. As the details of all this important work will be
found in the United States Coast Survey Reports for 1881 and 1882, it
is not worth while to enumerate them here.

The United States Geological Survey was organized in the spring of
1879, taking the place of several independent geological and geographical
surveys which had previously been conducted under the direction of
the Interior and War Departments. During the first two or three years -
of its existence comparatively little geographical work was done. The
labors of the survey being confined mainly to mines and mining, the
surveys were in grest part limited to the making of detailed maps of
mining districts. There was, however, some topographical work done
in Southern Utah and Northern Arizona, in the neighborhood of the
Grand Caiion of the Colorado, in order to complete a map commenced
and nearly finished by the survey of the Rocky Mountain region. In
addition to this, a survey was made of the voleanic region of the San
Francisco peaks in Northern Arizona. Some geographical work was
also done in connection with Mr. G. K. Gilbert’s investigation of the
history of the ancient lakes in the Great Basin, and the climatic changes
indicated by them, but this was not of a connected character.

In the year 1881 it was decided to increase the topographical force
with a view of preparing maps for the use of the geological corps.
Work was commenced ir the western part of New Mexico, in the neigh-
borhood of Fort Wingate, where a base line was measured and triangu-
lation extended therefrom in the neighboring region. A small area of
country was mapped in this neighborhood and also in the neighborhood
of the Moqui towns in Northeastern Arizona.

In 1882 the topographical force was largely increased and work was
commenced simultaneously in several different sections of the country.
Besides the detailed surveys of mining regions, a division consisting of
two topographical parties commenced workin Northern California with
the view of mapping eventually the great volcanic range of the Cascades
extending across Oregon and Washington Territory, preparatory to a
study of its geological phenomena. The triangulation for this division:
GEOGRAPHY. 253

was based upon points located by the Coast and Gecdetic Survey.
About 3,000 square miles were mapped in the Coast and Cascade ranges
and in the volcanic region lying east of the latter.

Another division, consisting of one triangulation party and two topo-
graphical parties, commenced work near Bozeman, Mont., having in
view the mapping of this country about the heads of the Yellowstone
and Missouri Rivefs and a connection with the triangulation of the old
survey under Dr. Hayden, which had been extended from the line of the
Union Pacific Railroad northward to the Yellowstone Park. The tri-
angulation was expanded from a base measured in 1879, near Bozeman,
by the surveys west of the one hundredth meridian. The expansion
was effected and several stations occupied in the mountains, but an
unusually early winter put a premature stop to all operations, and but
little topographical work was done.

A third division, consisting of one party for triangulation and two for
topography, continued the work commenced in the preceding year in
Western New Mexico and Eastern Arizona. The triangulation was
extended to include a very considerable area, and about 1,500 square
miles were mapped.

Congress having authorized the Geological Survey to extend its opera-
tions.into the older States outside the public domain, work was com-
menced this year simultaneously in Western North Carolina, Southern
Virginia, and Eastern Kentucky and Tennessee. Four surveying par-
ties, including one for carrying on primary triangulation, were organized
for this work and have been carrying it on rapidly and satisfactorily.
The triangulation was based upon that of the Coast and Geodetic Sur-
vey along the Blue Ridge, and was thence extended westward nearly to
the Cumberland Mountains, and about 4,000 square miles were mapped,
the larger portion of which is in the high mountainous region of North
Carolina. It is the intention of the survey to push the work of this
the Southern Appalachian division as rapidly as possible, as it is be-
lieved that no section of the country will so amply repay in a directly
economic manner the labors of the geologist as this. Its immense
resources of coal and iron are just beginning to be known, and its mag-
nificent forests of hard and soft wood timber are rapidly assuming
great importance in view of the unprecedented destruction of valuable
forests in other sections of the country.

With the view of commencing operations in the Ozark Hills of Arkan-
sas and Missouri, a base line was measured at Malvern, Ark., just at the
south-western border of the hills, from which work will be carried on
quite extensively during the coming year.

The State geological survey of New Jersey has recently commenced
a detailed map of that State on a scale of one mile to an inch. The
primary triangulation is supplied by the Coast and Geodetic Survey.
The topographical work is done with the plane-table; contours are run

at vertical intervals of ten feet in the flat country and twenty feet in
H. Mis. 26——23
354 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882.

the hilly regions. The first sheet has recently been published (1882),
comprising the northeastern portion of the State.

The second State geological survey of Pennsylvania, while making no
pretense of publishing a map of the State, has surveyed very considera-
ble areas in connection with its study of the mineral deposits, and a large
number of maps have been published during the last three or four years
upon various scales suited to the character of the investigation which
they are designed to illustrate.’

The State geologist of North Carolina has recently published a map
of that State on a scale of 10 miles to an inch, embodying the results
of his own labors and those of Professor Guyot.

The State survey of New York is steadily continuing its triangulation,
as evinced by the brief annual reports of the director.

A great part ofthe region tributary to the lines of the Northern Pa-
cific Railway, lying in Washington, Montana, Idaho, Wyoming, and
Dakota Territories, is almost unexplored geographically, and its resour-
ces are stillless known. To obtain an adequate knowledge of the capa-
cities of this extensive country a survey has been organized on behalf
of the railroads under the able superintendence of Mr. Raphael Pum-
pelly. The organization is divided as follows: division of mineral
resources; division of climate, rivers, and irrigation; division of soil;
division of forests; division of economic botany; laboratory; division
of topography.

Topographical work was begun in September, 1881, between the Cas-
cades and the Columbia River, about 2,500 square miles of country being
mapped. During the season just passed three topographical parties
were employed, one extending the maps of the region just mentioned,
one east of the Colville reservation, and one between the Yellowstone
and Missouri Rivers, making altogether between 20,000 and 30,000
square miles of territory surveyed and plotted. It is proposed to show
all the information developed by the survey in a cartographic form, so
that all the important physical facts will be shown on the maps. The
topographical survey will show the form of the surface by contour lines
of 200 feet of vertical distance, and in addition the maps will show the
grades of the streams, the extent of the bottom and bench [und, and the
extent and conformation of the uplands.

On one set of maps will be shown the minimum volume of water at
different seasons in the principal streams and the classified distribution
of the soils. On another set of maps will be shown the climatic condi-
tions, giving the rainfall and temperature by months from the observa-
tions of a long series of years. Another set of maps will show the dis-
tribution and relative abundance of forage plants, with the climatic
facts affecting stock grazing; and still another set will show the min-
eral resources. The work will beso carried on as to be able to represent
on the maps each winter the results of each season’s work. A more
valuable work to the prospective immigrant, to say nothing of its im-
portance to the companies themselves, can hardly be imagined.
GEOGRAPHY. 355

SOUTH AMERICA.

After a residence of seven years in Bolivia as engineer to the Govern-
ment, Mr. J. B. Minchin has published, through the medium of the Royal
Geographical Society, a great deal of information regarding this produc-
tive and fertile but little known country. In fact there is hardly any
country of the world so little known as Eastern Bolivia. With an area
ef 500,000 square miles its productions are so numerous and valuable
that, settled by a working population, it would become one of the most
prosperous in South America. Its great need is a route for conveying
its exports by way of the Madeira and Amazon Rivers to the sea. In
addition to determining the latitude, longitude, and height of numerous
points, Mr. Minchin has published an excellent map of Bolivia, showing
the river systems as far as they have been explored. He has devoted
much attention to the depth and rapidity of the various rivers which
may be used for navigation, and a great deal of information regarding
them has now for the first time been published. Mr. Minchin has also
surveyed and described a part of the vast Andean table-land and salt
desert not hitherto visited or described. He finds from an ancient
water-mark, 200 feet above the present level of Lake Poopé, unmis-
takable evidence that a vast sheet of water, some 20,000 square miles
in extent, once covered a great part of this table-land, and considers
that the gradual subsidence and escape of the waters of this lake to the
Pacific may have contributed to the formation of the great nitrate de-
posits of the coast.

In continuation of the work of the late Professor Orton, Mr. Edwin
R. Heath has been engaged in exploring the Beni and other rivers of
Bolivia. Starting in September, 1880, from Cabinos, a rubber camp on
the Madidi, a small affluent of the Beni, he discovered a new river enter-
ing the Benifrom the south, a short distance above its junction with the
Madre de Dios, which he reached on October 8, and determined eare-
fully the latitude and longitude of the confluence. Continuing to de-
scend the Beni he discovered a new branch coming in from the north
which he called the Orton. Between this point and the junction of the
Beni and Mamoré he found navigation interrupted by falls and rapids,
but making a short portage he reached the river below the falls and as-
cended the Mamoré for 300 miles to Santa Ana, thence across the pam-
pas to Reyes. Dr. Heath’s claim to have been the first white man to
see the mouth of the Madre de Dios is probably erroneous, as there seems
to be no doubt that the Madre de Dios was descended in 1861, by Don
Faustino Maldonado, who was afterward drowned in the rapids of the
Madeira.

Dr. Jules Crevaux, whose explorations in Guiana and on the Amazon
have added so much to the knowledge of those regions, in 1880 was
engaged in exploring the Upper Guyabero in Colombia. Accompanied
by M. Lejanne, after crossing the Cordillera from the Upper Magdalena,
356 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882.

he embarked on a raft on the Guyabero, and with great difficulty and
danger made the descent to Bolivar by way of the Orinoco, losing the
raft in the rapids and having one of their men killed by the poisoned
arrows of the Indians. During their journey 2,550 miles were traversed,
of which 1,275 were through new country. In the latter part of 18381
Dr. Crevaux left France, intending, under the direction of the French
ministry of public instruction, to pass, by one of the branches of the
Paraguay, to the Amazon water shed, but on arrival at Buenos Ayres
he was induced to undertake the exploration of the Pilcomayo, about
which little was known. After discovering some important Indian ruins
at or near Salta, he had prepared to embark his expedition in canoes on
the headwaters of the Pilecomayo, not far from Tupiza, in Bolivia, when
he was massacred, in April, 1882, with his party by the Tobas Indians.

An exploration of the upper part of the river Cuyuné has been made
by Mr. MeTurk, an official of British Guiana, who penetrated about 40
miles farther into unknown Venezuelan territory than has been done by
any other white man, and found numerous Carib settlements.

Mr. Edward Whymper, F. R. G. S., made, in 1880, a most adventur-
ous journey among the Andes of Ecuador, from which much information
of value may be derived. Mr. Whymper fairly tested aneroid barome-
ters for determining mountain heights, and concludes that generally
speaking they are untrustworthy. He also compared systematically
the results of elevation measurements made by boiling water and those
by mercurial barometers, and finds that in all cases the boiling-point
observations yielded lower altitudes than the barometers. “Mr. Whym-
per also states that, contrary to the showing of most of the maps of that
at region, the Cordilleras do not lie in two parallel ranges.

The elevations of a large number of mountains were measured, the
results generally agreeing with those of Drs. Reiss and Stubel, but
Mount Saraureu, reputed to be a voleano, was found to be non-voleanie
and only 15,500 feet high, 1,900 feet lower than stated by Villavicencia.

During a residence of several years in Magdalena, United States of
Colombia, Mr. F. A. Simons made extensive and numerous journeys
through the region of the Sierra Nevada. He has described the river
system at length in the Journal of the Royal Geographical Society, and
has made many measurments of mountain heights. The greatest height
he was able to determine was 17,500 feet, ascertained from the boiling
point of water.

A new boundary line has been agreed upon between the Chilian and
Buenos Ayrean possessions in Patagonia, which finally settles, it is to
be hoped, this long disputed subject. The Andes, stretching south to
Mounts Sarmiento and Darwin, will be the dividing line, while the
southern limit of the Argentine Republic will be formed by a line from
Cape Virgin to a point on the Andes, in latitude 52° south, longitude

"7

72° west from Greenwich. The coasts of the Straits of Magellan are
GEOGRAPHY. 357

thus allotted to Chili, and the straits are declared free to vessels of all
nations.

In the course of an address before the geographical section of the
British Association, Mr. John Ball calls attention to the remarkable
contrasts existing between the climate of the eastern and western sides
of South America. Not only is there an immense difference between
the rainfall of the two coasts, there being a portion of the west coast
(formerly Bolivia) where no rain ever falls, but a radical difference
exists in the climate of neighboring places on the western coast only
one hundred miles apart. Mr. Ball finds that the reasons heretofore
adduced for these remarkable differences are entirely insufficient, and
likewise fails to find any adequate reason for the exceptionally mild
climate of the Straits of Magellan.

ARCTIC REGIONS.

Beyond the more accurate delineation of one or two coast lines, the
geographical results attending the numerous Arctic expeditions of the
last few years cannot be said to be very great in spite of the energy and
devotion of the explorers, attended in so many cases with extreme hard-
ship and loss of life.

During a long succession of years numerous attempts were made to
sail from Europe to the Pacific Ocean by the north of Asia; no less
than thirteen expeditions having been fitted out at various times and
by different nations for this purpose. The only successful expedition
was the last one, in 1878, commanded by Prof. A. E. Nordenskjéld, in
the Swedish steamer Vega, which, after passing the strait south of Nov-
aya Zemlya on August 1, found the Kara Sea nearly free of ice, and,
dredging, sounding, and surveying as they went along, succeeded in
reaching a point within 120 miles of Behring’s Strait on the 28th of
September, but were there ice-bound all winter, only passing into the
Pacific on the 20th of the next July. This experience seems to have
convinced Professor Nordenskjéld that voyages could be made every
year from the north of Europe by way of the Kara Sea to the mouths
of the rivers Yenesei and Obe, affording a much better means than for-
merly of conveying the wheat and other products of Southern Sibe-
ria to Europe, but subsequent events do not appear to justify this con-
clusion. :

In the summer of 1880 steamers were not able to pass through any
of the passages into the Kara Sea, owing to an ice-field 20 to 30 miles
wide, on the east coast of Novaya Zemlya, which entirely blocked the
mouths of the Waigat and the Matyuskin Shar. ‘The passage north of
Novaya Zemlya by the Orange Islands was also tried, but the sea was
full of ice, and the steamers escaped with difficulty late in the season
by way of the Matyuskin Shar. Late in September, M. Sibiriakoff suc-
ceeded in passing the Jugor Strait with two steamers and reached the
mouth of the Yenesei, too late, however, to return.
358 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882.

In 1881 the edge of the ice-pack is said to have laid nearer to the
coast of Norway than is known to have been the case before. The
Matyuskin Shar and the straits south of Novaya Zemlya were heavily
blocked with ice, but the northern passages seem to have been clear,
and possibly in September vessels might have made their way to the
Yenesei.

In 1882, in spite of several determined efforts, steamers could not pass
the ice which blocked the approaches to the Kara Sea, and were obliged
in October to return.

The facts seem to indicate that no reliance can be placed on the navi-
gability of these northern waters, except perhaps for steamers con-
structed expressly to struggle against the ice, and that the outlet for
the products of Southern Siberia must be looked for in the development
of railways and canals.

The reports of the survivors of the unfortunate Jeannette expedition
seem to show that beyond the discovery of three islands to the north-
eastward of the New Siberia group and the more exact delineation of
the shores of Wrangell Land, no important geographical results are to
be expected from their labors except the confirmation of the belief that
the waters surrounding the pole are constantly covered with a mass of
ice heaped up and impassable, or, in other words, that Sir George Nares’
theory of the Paleocrystic Sea is the true one.

The Jeannette left San Francisco on the 8th of July, 1879, fitted for
three years’ stay in the Arctic regions, under the command of Lieut.
Commander G. W. De Long, U.S. N., with four other officers and twenty-
four men of the naval service and two civilian attachés. On the 26th
of August the ship started north from Saint Lawrence Bay, inclining
toward the coast of Siberia with the hope of communicating with the
Vega. On September 5 the ice-pack was entered, and on the 8th the
Jeannette was frozen in solidly and never escaped; the ship after this
time drifting helplessly with the masses of ice until June, 1881, a period
of one year and nine months. The drift was with the wind, covering a
large area of ground and having a general direction towards the north-
west, and demonstrating that the only lands in this region were the
small, rocky, uninhabited islets called Jeannette and Henrietta Islands.

On June 12, 1881, the Jeannette was crushed by the ice and sunk,
giving time, however, for the crew to land and to secure provisions, &c.,
and on the 17th of June, with five sleds and three boats, the whole party
started in good order for the coast of Siberia.

Progress over the rough and melting ice was slow and difficult, and
in was not till the 29th of July that Bennett Island, in latitude 76° 38°
north, longitude 148° 20/ east, was reached. This island, small, high,
and rocky, and the Jeannette and Henrietta islets, form the only geo-
graphical discoveries of this unfortunate expedition.

After afew days’ stay to rest the exhausted crew, the men and officers
were divided between the three boats and progress southward was re-
GEOGRAPHY. 359

sumed by way of the open leads between the ice-floes. On the 28th of
August, Thaddeus Island, of the New Siberia group, was reached, and
a delay of ten days ensued from the ice openings being closed. It was
not until September 12 that a start could be made for the coast of Si-
beria, and very soon afterward the boats were separated in a gale of wind.
The boat commanded by Lieutenant Chipp, and having a crew of eight
men, has never since been heard of. Lieutenant-Commander De Long’s
boat reached the Lena delta, where all the party but two seamen died of
starvation‘and exposure; while the party in the third boat, commanded
by Chief Engineer Melville, safely reached the Russian settlements on
the Lena, terribly exhausted and frost-bitten.

The officers of the United States steamer Rodgers, Lieut. R. M. Berry
commanding, while engaged in a search for the Jeannette in the autumn
of 1881, made a thorough examination of Wrangell Land, which was sup-
posed by the late Dr. Petermann to form a part of an extensive Arctic
continent, but has now been definitely ascertained to bean island about
70 miles long, east and west, and 35 miles broad, including the sand-spits
which make out from the north and south coasts from 6 to 10 miles.
The whole island is a succession of peaks and valleys, one peak near
the center of the island rising to a height of 2,500 feet, with a range of
high hills extending round the island near the coast line. One small
harbor was found on the southern coast. Lieutenant Berry explored
the island thoroughly and made a chart of it.

After leaving Wrangell Island, Lieutenant Berry picked his way
through the floes of ice to a point 132 miles farther north, in latitude
73° 44’—the highest latitude ever attained in this sea. From the mast-
head at this point no indication of land could be seen to the northward,
and the depth (82 fathoms) here was increasing as the vessel proceeded
northward. Lieutenant Berry found no evidences of a current in this
sea, Other than that produced by the ebb and flow of the tide.

After a full discussion of the various alleged currents of Bering’s
Sea (Appendix No. 16, Coast Survey Report for 1880), Mr. W. H. Dall,
whose experience entitles his opinions to great respect, comes to the
conclusion that no warm current from the southwest enters Bering’s
Strait with the exception of water from the adjacent rivers or sounds;
that the Kuro Siwo, or Japanese Gulf Stream, sends no recognizable
branch northward into Behring’s Sea, and that the strait is incapable
of carrying a warm current of sufficient magnitude to have any marked
effect on the water of the polar basin. He agrees with Lieutenant
Berry in considering the currents as chiefly tidal, and finds nothing de-
veloped in his investigation to support in the slightest degree the
hypothesis of large areas of water in the Polar Sea free from ice. The
opinion of Mr. Dal, that the movements of the ice are largely depend-
ent on prevailing winds, is fully borne out by the experience of the
ofticers of the Jeannette. During Mr. Dall’s examination of the currents
360 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882.

and tides, most valuable determinations of geographical positions were
made along the coast of Alaska by the party under his command.

The voyages of Mr. Leigh Smith in the English steam yacht Eira will
hereafter take an important position in the annals of Arctic discovery.
In June, 1880, the enterprising explorers left Great Britain, and after
an ineffectual attempt to reach the east coast of Greenland, finding the
ice impassable, the ship’s head was turned to the eastward, and passing
south of Spitzbergen, on the 14th of August the coast of Franz-Joseph
Land was reached. Between this time and the 1st of September, Mr.
Smith explored 110 miles of the south coast of Franz-Joseph Land and
its off-lying islands, landing frequently and keeping a very full journal.
Geological and botanical specimens were obtained and great numbers
of walruses and seals were seen. From the Ist to the 10th of September
the Eira endeavored unsuccessfully to find an opening in the ice pack
which would enable the explorers to reach Wiche’s Island east of Spitz-
bergen, but it was necessary to take a homeward course as the season was
advancing, and on the 24th of September the Eira reached Hammerfest.

Among the important results of the voyage was the demonstration
of serious errors in the Admiralty charts of the regions about Walter
Thymen’s Straits and other places frequented by vessels every year.
Mr. Clements Markham, a most capable judge, pronounces this voyage
of the Eira to have been the most important summer cruise ever made
in the Arctic regions.

Again, in June, 1881, Mr. Smith sailed in the Eira with the hope of ex-
tending his discoveries of the previeus year. The autumn and winter
passed with no news of the expedition, and in June, 1882, a relief ship
was sent to search for the missing explorers. On reaching Novaya
Zemlya it was found that the Eira had been sank by the ice in August,
1881, and that after wintering on Franz-Joseph Land Mr. Leigh Smith
and his companions had fortunately escaped in their boats to Novaya
Zemlya. As they had not been able to save any provisions from the
ship they would all have starved to death but for the walrus and bear
meat they were enabled to obtain.

Under an international arrangement stations have been established in
the Arctic regions by observers of various nations for the purpose of
making meteorological and other physical observations.

Although no announcements of geographical discovery have yet been
received from any of these parties, it is to be expected that, in addition
to meteorological observations, valuable contributions will be made to
our geographical knowledge by the able officers at the head of these
parties.

The United States have established two stations, one five miles west
of Point Barrow, under charge of Lieut. P. H. Ray, United States Army,
and one commanded by Lieut. A. W. Greely, United States Army, on
the shores of Lady Franklin Bay, in Grinnell Land. .

In July, 1882, as previously arranged, arelief ship was dispatched to
GEOGRAPHY. 361

communicate with the party at Lady Franklin Bay, but failed to reach
that place on account of unusually heavy pack ice. Depots were estab-
lished on Cape Sabineand Lyttelton Island for use in case Lieutenant
Greely’s party should be forced to retreat, and as soon as the season
opens in 1883 a determined effort will be made, under command of Lieu-
tenant Garlington, United States Army, to reach the beleaguered
colony.

The British station has been established at Fort Rae, in the northern
part of British America, under the direction of a committee of the Royal
Society.

On the island of Jan Mayen a party of Ausfrian observers have
been left, to be relieved in 1883. The Danes have chosen Godhaab, in
Greenland, where six skillful observers under the leadership of Mr. A.
Paulsen have been placed; and the Dutch party, under charge of Dr.
Snellen, of the Utrecht Observatory, are established at Dickson’s Haven,
at the mouth of the Yenesei. The Norwegian station is situated at Boze-
kop,on the Alten Fiord. The Russians have chosen a point at the mouth
of the river Lena and at Moller Bay, in Novaya Zemlya. The Swedes
have established observers on Spitzbergen; and the Germans, in addi-
tion to placing a staff of observers under command of Dr. Giese on the
shores of Cumberland Sound, Davis Strait, have sent another party,
under Dr. Schrader, of the Hamburg Ubservatory, to the island of South
Georgia, 1,100 miles east of Cape Horn.

ASIA.

The most important geographical event relating to Central Asia is
the completion of the expedition commanded by Colonel Prejevalsky,
and the return of its members to Russia. The first part of the account
of this famous journey in Thibet and China has been issued. It is di-
vided into two parts, and is illustrated with maps and engravings. A
German translation is in course of preparation. Under the auspices of
the Imperial Russian Geographical Society, Colonel Prejevalsky pro-
poses to start in March, 1883, on his fourth expecition to Central Asia,
chiefly with a view to studying the volcanic phenomena presented by
the Tien Shan, and also to penetrate, if possible, into the mountains of
Thibet.

In an address before the British Association, Sir Richard Temple, in
giving a summary of all existing knowledge relating to the geography
of the central plateau of Asia, calls attention to the imperfection of that
knowledge, the importance of the region, and the field offered by it for
research and discovery. The principal geographical problems in Asia
yet unsolved relate largely to this unknown region.

The Pamir, by which name is known the elevated region immediately
south of Chokand, in Central Asia, and called by Asiatices the ‘‘ Roof of
the World,” has frequently been described by geographers as a part of
362 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882.

this great plateau; but M. Severtsof, who has been engaged in exploring
that region, states that the Pamir is not a table-land, and, up to the
height of about 12,000 feet, has no steppe formation. Up to the height
of about 14,000 feet the rivers flow in narrow valleys never exceeding
about thirteen miles in width. There are no lofty plateaus in the Pamir,
the mountains rising 6,000 or 7,000 feet above the level of the valleys,
elevations above the sea of 19,000 feet being frequently found, with three
mountain groups attaining a height of 25,000 feet. From evidence ob-
tained by M. Severtsof, he considers that elevation is continuously and
steadily going on.

M. and Mme. Ujfalvy have accomplished a long journey in Kashmir
and Little Thibet, bringing with them an important collection, valuable
from a geographical and ethnographical point of view, and which is to
be preserved in the Ethnographical Museum of Paris.

Among the many obligations which geographical knowledge owes
to enterprising newspaper correspondents must be reckoned the ac-
count given by Mr. E. O’Donovan of the supposed desert of Merv. Mr.
O’Donovan, who penetrated into this region from Persia under cireum-
stances of great peril and hardship, states that so far from the country
being a desert, the soil is fertile, and only requires that the irrigation
works be repaired by dams on the Murghab and Tejend Rivers to be-
come productive again. Mr. O’Donovan further states that though the
rains of two cities, one Alexandrine and one Mussu]man, can be traced
and show evidences of a high degree of civilization, no such city as
Merv exists at present.

Mr. P. M. Lessar. an employé of the Russian Government, has been
engaged in exploring the country bordering on the southwest portion
of the Caspian Sea, and lying between that sea and Herat, in order to
ascertain the possibility of constructing a railway from some port on
the Caspian toward the frontier of British India. He finds the physi-
cal obstacles easily surmountable, and demonstrates that, in the region
to be traversed, the Paropamisus, or high range of mountains, which
north of Cabul rise to an elevation of 20,000 feet, dwindle as they range
to the westward to mere hills less than 1,000 feet in height.

Dr. Albert Regel has, under the auspices of the Imperial Russian
Geographical Society, been engaged in the exploration of the region
surrounding the headwaters of the Amu Daria River. The year 1881
was devoted to the investigation of the Bokharan province of Drwvag;
and a translation of his report of proceedings up to September, 1881, is
published in the Proceedings of the Royal Geographical Society.

In carrying a chain of spirit-level observations across the Indian
peninsula from Bombay to Madras, by the officers of the grand trigono-
metrical survey of India, the result seemed to show that the mean sea
level is about three feet higher at Madras than at Bombay. Aftera
very careful investigation the surveyor-general has concluded that this
anomalous result is due to an accumulation of minute errors in the
GEOGRAPIIY. 363

course of the observations and not to any real difference in the mean
sea level.

The English, always alive to the importance of establishing new trade
routes, have eagerly sought to open a road by which Western China
would be open to receive British manufactures from India by way of
Assam. With this end in view, and assisted largely by money contrib-
uted by English merchants, Mr. A. R. Colquhoun, of the English consular
service, has just performed a journey from Canton, through Southern
China and Bumah, to Bhamo on the Irrawady, and thence to Rangoon.
Being provided with passports from the Chinese Government and ac-
companied by a Chinese interpreter, Mr. Colquhoun proceeded, in Feb-
ruary, 1882, up the Canton or Si-Kiang River as far as Pe-se, the limit
of navigation. It was found that the river is navigable for about 400
miles above Canton for steamboats drawing 4 feet, but none areallowed
there. The travelers were obliged to adopt complete Chinese costume
to escape notice and insult, as a great deal of hatred was shown toward
the Fan-qui or western devils.

From Pe-se the Yunnan plateau was ascended and crossed, but on
reaching Ssumao, where Mr. Colquhoun intended to turn southward
toward Moulmen, his progress was effectually barred in that direction
by the hostility of the Chinese mandarins; and he was obliged to take a
northward course over the mountains to Ta-li and thence to Bhamo, a
route which he pronounces entirely unfit for trade caravans from the
natural obstacles. After discussing the various proposed routes for
trading with Southwestern China, Mr. Colquhoun pronounces in favor
of a railway extending from British Burmah and already partially con-
structed.

AFRICA.

Although explorations have been carried on with much success, on a
small scale, so that the unknown regions are constantly being dimin-
ished, there have been no very striking discoveries on the continent of
Africa. The principal journey to chronicle is that of the Italians, Lieu-
tenant Massari and Dr. Matteucci, from Suakin, on the Red Sea, by way
of Khartum, across Kordofan and Darfur, thence, by a southwesterly
course, to Egga on theriver Niger; then descending this river in one
of the West African Company’s steamers they reached home, after a
journey of sixteen months. Although English and German travellers
had previously traversed this region, these two travellers have added
to the knowledge of it, and have fixed the latitude and longitude of
many towns.

Mr. H. M. Stanley, whose name is so noted in African explorations,
has succeeded in making a practicable route between the Lower Congo
and Stanley Pool, at the head of a long series of falls and rapids on
the Congo River, and has also been engaged in exploring the Congo
above Stanley Pool.
364 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FCR 1882.

M. Savorgnan de Brazza returned to France from his second expedi-
tion to the Ogewé and Congo Rivers, and in June, 1882, gave an ac-
count of his travels to the Geographical Society of Paris. He has
explored the river system of a large tract of country between the
Ogowé and Congo Rivers, and has at least attempted to take pos-
session of some parts of it for the French Government.

Dr. Junker, who is known by his former journeys to the west of the’
Albert Nyanza Lake, has been endeavoring to explore the Welle River,
which it seems should be called the Makua. The reports thus far re-
ceived of his journey seem rather vague, but his return will enable
a great deal of uncertainty about the maps of the equatorial region
and of the southwest affluent of the Nile to be cleared up.

Mr. Joseph Thomson has proceeded to Zanzibar, under the direction
of the Royal Geographical Society, to explore a direct route to the shores
of the Victoria Nyanza, and to examine Mount Kenia.

The difficult country between the southern border of Abyssinia and
Lake Victoria Nyanza is being examined by Mr. Schuver and Dr.
Stecker, who are, however, working separately. No trustworthy report
of their labors has yet been published.
METEOROLOGY.

By CLEVELAND ABBE.

NotTE.—The following collection of notes and extracts from Nature
(Volumes xxIiI to XXVI) presents a summary of progress in meteor-
ology during 1880, ’51, and ’82, so far as it has been recorded in that
journal, and is supplementary to the meteorological record published
in the annual report for 1881.

SIN Oo SiS:

I.—a Institutions; b Special stations and work; c Individuals and necrology.

II.—a General treatises; b History; ¢ Climate.

III.—a Aeronautics; ) Barometers ; c Thermometers; d@ Anemometers: e Miscella-
neous apparatus and methods.

IV.—Physical questions.

V.—a Solar radiation; b Terrestrial temperature.

VI.—a Evaporation; b Condensation ; ¢ Rainfall.

VII.—Winds.

VIII.—Barometric pressure.

1X.—Storms. °

X.—a Atmospheric electricity ; 6 Terrestrial magnetism; ¢ Ground currents; d Au-
roras.

XI.—a Refraction and mirage; b Halos.

XII.—a Periodicity and sunspots; b Hypsometry ; cGeology, physical geography,
glaciers, hydrology: dClimate and biology ; e Vulcanology and seismology.

I.—a INSTITUTIONS; DSPECIAL STATIONS AND WORK; c INDIVIDUALS
AND NECROLOGY.

Perhaps the most important event that has characterized the year
1882 has been the actual inauguration of the first year of international
observations in accordance with the programme of the Polar Commis.
sion. The original proposition made in 1875 by Lieutenant Weyprecht
has finally become a successful effort at international co-operation in
taking special simultaneous meteorological and magnetic observations
in the arctic and antarctic regions, while the permanent observatories of
the temperate zones continue their regular work. The following gives
a general history of the undertaking, and a list of the stations occu-
pied by the various nations, and the works undertaken by them. The
instructions under which these stations carry on the work have been
printed in the official Mittheilungen published by the International Polar

Commission.
365
366 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882.

Much of modern progress in science is due to co-operation on a large
scale; and this is especially true of geography and astronomy. Dur-
ing the present century the rapid progress in meteorology and terres-
trial magnetism has been remarkably furthered by international con-
ventions, and by agreements among the leaders of these scientific
enterprises, until now it would be regarded as injudicious to attempt
any great undertaking in these departments without a mutual under-
standing between the interested nations.

In September, 1875, Lieut. Carl Weyprecht, a well-known arctic
explorer, proposed that the nations of the world should unite in one
uniform system of simultaneous magnetic and meteorological obser-
vations at as many stations as possible in the arctic and antarctic
regions.

This was an important extension of the international work already
in hand within the temperate zone, and was considered so certain to
result in a great advance of our knowledge that the idea was univer-
sally approved.

The details of the plan were elaborated at an International Polar
Congress, held at Hamburg, in August, 1879, and at another held at
Berne, in July, 1880. As a result of the agitation of this question,
ten delegates met at St. Petersburg, in August, 1881, and organized
an Official ** Polar Commission,” all the members of which had author-
ity to act for their respective Governments.

Since the organization of this commission, other nations have en-
listed in the work; the observing parties have all been dispatched
to their respective destinations, and they now are actually engaged
in the contemplated observations. The stations will be occupied for
at least one, and, in some cases, for three years, and may be divided
into two classes, namely, (1) the special polar stations within 30°
of the north or south pole, and (2) the auxiliary stations, which are
spread over the rest of the habitable globe. Besides these land sta-
tions, observations made on shipboard are extensively called for, and
it is hoped that enough observations will be accumulated to allow
the making of a complete map of the weather, and of the magnetic
disturbances throughout the whole globe, for any amount of time dur-
ing the period in question. In addition to the main work of these
international stations, all possible attention will be given to numerous
collateral subjects. The great extent of the work will be appreciated
by an examination of the following list of the objects of observation,
and the number of stations to be occupied.

The observations which are considered obligatory are as follows :

I. Meteorological: 1. Temperature of the air; 2. Temperature of the sea;
3. Barometric pressure; 4. Humidity; 5. Wind—direction and force;
6. Clouds—their kind, amount, and motion; 7. Rainfall; 8. Weather
and optical phenomena.

II. Magnetic: 1. Absolute declination; 2. Absolute inclination; 3. Ab
solute horizontal intensity; 4. Variations of declination; 5. Variations
of inclination; 6. Variations of horizontal intensity.

All the preceding observations are to be made hourly, except on the
Ist and 15th days of each month, when the readings will be made every
five minutes.

Ii{.—Miscellaneous: 1. The aurora—shape, color, motion, and posi-
tion; 2. Astronomical latitude and longitude; 3. Astronomical time.

The observations, which are considered desirable and will be gener-
ally undertaken, but which are not obligatory, are as follows: 1. Varia-
METEOROLOGY. 367

tions of temperature with height; 2. Solar radiation; 3. Evaporation;
4, Galvanic earth currents; 5. Parallax of the aurora; 6. Spectroscopic
observations on the aurora; 7. Ocean currents; 8. Tidal observations;
9. Structure of ice; 10. Density of sea-water; 11. Atmospheric electric-
ity; 12. Atmospheric refractions; 13. Twilight; 14. The force of gravity;
15. Collection of samples of air for analysis; 16. Collection of samples
of atmospheric dust for analysis; 17. Observations and collections in
zoology and botany, geology, &c.

It is hoped that all these observations will be eventually published
in extenso ona uniform system.

Thirteen nations have thus far entered heartily into the project; fif-
teen polar stations and over forty auxiliary stations have been estab-
lished.

Co-operation of the respective nations in the International Magnetic and
Meteorological Observations.

A

UNITED STATES.

Polar stations. Lat. Long.
1. Lady Franklin Bay, Grinnell Land.......... N. 81° 20’ W. 64° 58’
Zev Omlb arrow, Alaskan. oo ols eMvog/ te 2 os Clee Cie N. 71° 18’ W. 1569 24’
Auxiliary stations.
SOS PAT PClOBY sisi). ec)2 3. -- 5: She Bie ue a ae Rags N. 34° 03’ W. 118° 16/
4. Fort Chimo, Ungava Bay SUSAR Bice Sheep Se aca ns N. 59° 00’ W. 68° 00/
5. Copper Island, Kamtchatka..........-..-... N. 55° 00’ E. 168° 00/
6. Preparation of Daily International Weather

Bulletin and map for the entire globe.

AUSTRIA-HUNGARY.

Polar stations.
1S fe rg (2 ee ee ee +. SON OOS Wit» Soxaae
Auxiliary RENO.
. Special course of observations on telegraphic
earth currents will be made by the tele-
graphic department at 12 or 14 stations.
cease aN ete fal Cotes unas A REL teh 2k ec te eed Re IN: 709.52" Bs 139 514

bo

DENMARK.

Polar stations.
WRC OGLIARD GG cs ae Oe ee enter te oo weet ites, va IN. 640 DO Wis eb Or 4!

Auxiliary stations.

2. A special north polar expedition started to
explore north of Siberia, but the latest news
reports it frozen up near Nova Zembla.
FINLAND.
Polar stations.
NOUGAT Mayle aee etic h Skis o cioel dl bere aes N. 67° 24’ EB. 26° 36!
Auxiliary stations
Ai PELeISINPIOLSs veeer ict) crate «sj. 6/2 Sem eye eete eS N. 60° 12’ E. 25° 00°
Dik VAS aciet SRN at on. cc 3 ela eaten S N. 63° 00’ E. 21° 05/
368 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882.

Lat. Long.
Pee RUEO D1 Oi2 2 ies site Gravn anni ol = yee elias eee N. 62° 54’ E. 27° 10/
EAS NV ATUSILEY a) ce eins) = 2 o's ate scans mints aac iiolan pete WN. 60° 32" Ho 2 bo 1ge
6. Telegraphic ground currents will be observed
on two telegraph lines.
FRANCE.
Polar stations.
Cape: ELOY.) <.c) 2.05 es gee Sete ee S. 56° 00’ W. 67° 00/
Auxiliary stations.
DUSBATIS cos coe Gon eee tie cele cin aa eee ae N. 48° 50’ E. 2° 20/
3. The two vessels carrying the party to Cape
Horn will explore and take observations in
the Antarctic Sea until they bring the party
back again.
GERMANY. :
Polar stations.
1. South: Georstiatslandy.2e tesco ees ee S. 54° 30’ W. 38° 00/
2. Kan gawacicae erases Se epee Ja 52.679 300 OW. 67o1ah!

(Hogarth Inlet, Cumberland Sound.)

Auxiliary stations.

Oe MTG ee sae cn ee Oe ee eee eens N. 48° 09’ KE. 119 34’
4, Hoffenthal, Zoar, Nain, Ramah, Hebron,

Okak, on the coast of Labrador.
Dy Potsdant tos uke Nea eens Saetttt acta aeseaers N. 52° 25’ E. 13° 00!
6), BRESIAU) oo ets fae ie ie wee ee as eycceie eters erates IN: 61°00" EP 179 OF
7. Ralkland dslamad sys gee eiarite te -3. hain eye S. 51° 30’ W. 60° 00/
8. Will also observe ground currents on 6 or 8

telegraph lines.
GREAT BRITAIN AND CANADA.

Polar stations.
1. Fort Rae or Fort Simpson on Great Slave
Dialee 5 20s Sy hood ota ee en ener .N. 62° 30’ W. 115° 40/
Auxiliary stations.
2. On all vessels on the Atlantic Ocean, extra
observations have been called for, and
daily maps will be prepared for the entire
year by England.
3. Toronto: observations will be made by
CAMA ee rar ee ale dae See oun eames N. 43° 39/ W. 79° 23/

HOLLAND.

Polar stations.
1. Dickson Haven or Port Dickson .......--...- N. 73° 30’ E. 82° 00!
Auxiliary stations.
2. Special observations will be made on the reg-
ular anual voyages of Government vessels
to Nova Zembla.
Dy UR ENG Miers Bie ot Ce, dna a 2's oe ee Bee IN. 02° Obes 5° 07

ITALY.

Polar stations.

1. Punta Arenas, Patagonia. .... +...) 0... - 25s 00? LON ete oD"
METEOROLOGY. 369
Auxiliary stations. Lat. Long.
2) ©olon, near Montevideo’... (2.224... 2.52. S. $49 22/ W. 57° 50!
o Paysander, Buenos Ayres...-....6225. 20... S. 34° 45’ W. 58° 20/
MAWES Sao eth Cleiei an ce sia, ca 5 ALE ae N. 40° 52’ E. 14° 18/
= Ta Iz x ’
Ai aes } Patagonia LSI gn S. 40° 55’ W. 63° 00/
. Carmen, =
Mee WOMCAITORE ite, 2 a/2 (8 Ness 82s ee teeters, 2 N. 45° 00’ KE. = 79 42’
NORWAY.
Polar stations.
PE OSSOKOD: is se 2 2 as Spee, 2's he SO SR eee stores N. 69° 56’ BE. 23° 00!
Auxiliary stations.
2. Will send Professor Tromholdt to observe

auroras at Kautokeino, Finmark ........- N. 69° 00/

RUSSIA.

Polar stations.

1. Nova Zembla (Karmakule Bay) .......-...-. N. 72° 30/

Ay OU OLE UNE MSM A, Acca 7e,.toks & Less Gh yale ele N. 73° 00/
Auxiliary stations.

oeavilogic (St. Petersburg).:.2 0 5-= 26s se00s- N. 60° 00/

4, Observations of ground currents on four tele-

graph lines will be made, two in southern
and two in central Russia.

E. 234° 00/

E. 53° 00/

HH. 1249

E. 30°

40!

00!

The Russian Geographical Society will maintain the following spe-

cial meteorological stations in Siberia:

A eDE TOO DEAS CHS Kt thr a Lisa tha larels ahs ne ae SS N. 59° 30/
Cue VGREROIANS Ke 45-4 hey ails oe ache! t eps averg oneh sole eee gr CRE
AEN CL red SEN ChE ream galls A ST en A Ue er Rl a N. 73° 00/
Sec Ole Keni nS keeper ey eee eis ie tah ae ee N. 60° 30/
MMe N NIT ETENS Koremiia ee eee A ey aes Ae PT ae he N. 59° 25/
TAD ESST RT Chee ols PN Dr La Meg Ns ge ee ee mg N. 57° 00/
MLC MN GGU LISI. 225 cere a etocse cite ie aos we Rare We N. 60° 00/
SWEDEN.
Polar stations.
TONS EOI 0) Ts peg Pg ee faa a eee Sree toca
ARGENTINE REPUBLIC.
Auxiliary stations.
1. Steps have been taken to establish a mag-

netic observatory at Cordoba --.....-..... S. 31° 30/

MISCELLANEOUS.

BLOTS
133°
122°
121°

108°
peal i7(

bl tat edt ot

EK. 16°

W. 64°

Sie 1B 42a

00’

30/

Special simultaneous observations will be made by the local phys-

ical observatories at—

a Wied Le BREA ge A edd ili be Pee ey N. 41° 43/
2 EL AV AT ape eo hi ais ais eiaial debe MRR ede N. 23° 08/
os CG OUUIUS eM eres 88 e022 Vila Nayar Berean N. 51° 30/
CT EST ay ae ices sca) 21S a eR ce CS N. 38° 42/
FLOM Y TIMES bay cen eeee treet oe ee NE D3? D1!

H. Mis. 26 24

BE. 449
Ww. 829
B.. 10°
WwW. 9°

W. 29:2
370 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882.

Lat. Long.
Ore PESt AU oS) bos ode d tle 5 cieleie, s.cnsueeeee eee N. 51° 07’ E. 179 02°
1.) 20-ka- wel (Shanghai): =~... - 224 /5-a0eeer We SLO 10") Wedere 50!
Shadi 029 1 oe ee pM EED REE SAYS Sy SIO N. 14° 35’ E. 121° 00°
SM ALANIAAS = a isae, tie ee eee os) eee S. 6°10’ E. 106° 50’

Signal Office memorandum.

The International Polar Commission held its third annual meeting at
St. Petersburg September (August) 1,1881. The instructions that had
been issued to the United States parties (which were now already in the
field) were presented to the members.

The first subject discussed was the time at which observations should
be taken, and their frequency. Observations will begin for all the expe-
ditions in the polar regions, as also for observations in the temperate
zones, as soon as possible after August 1, 1882, and will finish as close
as possible to September 1, 1883. All the meteorological and magnetic
phenomena will be observed hourly during all this time; and besides
there will be taken on the Ist and 15th of each month magnetic obser-
vations every five minutes for twenty-four hours, and every twenty
seconds during some one hour of the day fixed on in advance, and every-
where according to the mean time of Gottingen. These latter observa-
tions have for their especial end to obtain a perfect knowledge of per-
turbations or magnetic storms, and their connection with the aurora
borealis.

The assembly approved three proposals by Count Wilezek: (1) To
found, if possible, a special publication to convey more quickly to the
knowledge of the scientific world, as well as to the leaders of the
expeditions, the pro) osals and reports concerning the expeditions, as
also their first results. (2) To leave, if possible, on the spot, the build-
ings and other arrangements likely to be useful to future expeditions of
the same kind, and to recommend them, in each country, to the care of
navigators, or to the inhabitants. (3) To ask steamboat and railway
companies to grant a reduction in the fares for the staff and effects of
various international polar expeditions. The stations proposed are, two
on the north coast of Siberia, one in Nova Zembla, one in Spitzbergen,
one on Jan Mayen Island, one on the west coast of Greenland, one in
Lady Franklin Bay, one in Behring Strait region; and the participating
countries are, Russia, Sweden, Denmark, Germany, Austria, and the
United States. (Nature, September, 1881, VOL. XXIV, p. 479.)

Loewy states that the International Polar Scientific Expedition sent
by France to Cape Horn will carry out a programme of observations
as arranged by Angot; direct observations will be made every four
hours, self-recording apparatus will also be kept in operation. Special
attention will be given to the austral auroras. (Nature, XXVI, p. 192.)

According to General Hazen’s Annual Report for 1881, the United.
States Arctic stations at Lady Franklin Bay and Point Barrow are es-
METEOROLOGY. 371

tabiished for the purposes of meteorological researches and not polar
geographic explorations.

In regard to the subject of polar researches, the English journal,
Nature, November 18,1880,says: ‘To squander £30,000 in one huge at-
tempt to reach the pole would be as mad as for a merchant to embark all
his capital in one hazardous undertaking. Polar research and polar
expeditions are not incompatible, but as Dr. Neumayer showed, in an ad-
mirable address at the Dantzic meeting of the German Association, the
former must be subordinated to and guided by the results of the latter.
The days of Arctic campaigns are past. We have reached the precincts
of the citadel itself, and now the sappers and miners begin their slow but
sure work, to be capped at the proper time by a grand assault. Ger-
many, Austria, Russia, Sweden, Norway, Denmark, the United States,
and, we believe, Canada are allto take part in this great work by estab-
lishing observing stations at suitable points all around the polar area,
while Italy is to send out next year a scientifically equipped expedition
to the Antarctic regions, our knowledge of which is meager and uncer-
tain. This last will be an observing as well as an exploring expedition,
preparatory to the establishment of an Antarctic station.

‘‘As Dr. Neumayer said, in the address alluded to, men of science do not
demand practical or so-called utilitarian reasons before giving their ad-
hesion to any new work; it is enough if it can be shown that such work
will conduce to the advancement of knowledge. And that Weyprecht’s
scheme of polar observatories, of which so many Governments approve,
will lead to vast additions being made to scientific knowledge, no man
of science needs be told. In meteorology, terrestrial magnetism, biology,
geology, and glacial physics the gains would be immense, and the his-
tory of science has taught us over and over again that the surest path
to practical and beneficent results is through the gate of pure scientific
research. Hvery day is the science of meteorology becoming more and
more important.” (Nature, November, 1880, XxI1I, p. 50.)

In connection with the Panama Canal, De Lesseps has established a
meteorological station at Colon. Stations on both sides of the isthmus
have long been desirable, and it is to be hoped that such will be well
maintained.

The Scottish Meteorological Society has, since the spring of 1881, main-
tained a series of daily observations on the summit and sides of Ben
Nevis. The summit is 4,406 feet above sea-level and is the highest spot
in the British Isles. The importance of building a residence for the
observer, and maintaining at the summit more frequent if not more
continuous observations, is strongly urged. The society accepted a
handsome offer by Mr. C. L. Wragge, who has had experience of such
work, to climb to the top of Ben Nevis every morning in time to make
observations there at 9 a.m. A complete set of the best instruments
has been procured. The barometer (a Fortin) is an excellent instru-
ment, and is constructed to read as low as 23.000 inches, in the procur-
aie SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882.

ance of whieh Mr. Scott, of the Meteorological Office, kindly gave his
assistance. On Tuesday, May 31, 1881, Mr. Wragge, with Mr. Living-
stone. of the public schools, and nine workmen, ascended the mountain,
and the instruments were fixed and secured in their proper positions;
and all, including the barometer, were found to be in good working
order. The regular observations began on the following day, June 1,
Mr. Wrage being at his post on the top of the Ben, 4,496 feet above
the sea at 9 a.m. He remains an hour at the top, and makes three
observations, viz, at 9, 9.50, and 10 a.m. Even during the stormy
weather of Saturday last the observations were made and the observer
back at Fort William at 1.30 p. m., on which occasion the temperature
at the top was as low as 28°.0.

Simultaneous with the Ber Nevis observations a complete series of
observations are also made near sea-level by Mrs. Wragge. These ob-
servations, together with the observations made at the neighboring
stations of Roy Bridge, Corran, Landale, Airds, Lismore, and Dalnas-
pidal (1,400 feet above the sea), will give the data required in dealing
with some more important problems in meteorology. (Nature, June,
1881; Vol. xxty,-p.131.)

The daily observations by Mr. C. L. Wragge, which ended with Octo-
ber- 1881, have been supplemented by those of Mr. Livingstone, who has
offered to climb to the summit once a month, whenever practicable,
during the winter. (Nature, December, 1881, xxv, p. 135.)

Mr. Livingstone ascended Ben Nevis for the second time on Satur-
day, February 10, 1882. Hefound the snow much deeper than usual.
(Nature, February, 1882, xxv, p. 372.)

Mr. Wragge has made every effort to secure land for a permanent
summit observatory, but thus far without suecess—meeting with oppo-
sition from unexpected quarters. (Nature, March, 1852, Xxv, p. 491.)

The observations on Ben Nevis and at Fort William were recom-
menced June 1, 1882. <A series of very frequent observations are made
at Fort William from 5 a.m. to 9 p. m., Simultaneous with those taken
by Mr. Wragge on his ascent and descent. Self-recording thermome-
ters, Spectroscopes, and actinometers and additional rain-gauges have
been provided. (Nature, June, 1882, XxVI, p. 112.)

Mr. Wragge has established a subsidiary station at Stafford where
full series of observations will be made at 9 a.m. daily. On the morn-
ing of July 23 Mr. Wragge found that wanton mischief had been done
to some of theinstruments at the intermediate stations of Redburn Cross-
ing, and he appeals to the public to co-operate with the attempt to pre-
vent such wantonness. (Nature, August, 1882, Xxv1, p. 330.)

The Swedish Government has decided to send a scientific expedition
to Mossel Bay, for the purpose of collecting meteorological information.
The expedition will be directed by Captam Malmberg, and will have to
remain during the summer of 1882 and the wiater of 1883 in order to
obtain the observations of the entire -year. Mossel Bay is situated to
METEOROLOGY. ome

the north of Spitzbergen, latitude 79° 54’, iongitude 16° 15’ east. The
locality is well known to the Swedes. Professor Nordenskjold staid
there inthe winter of 1872 and’75 with three ships. A Swedish man-
of-war will take the expedition to Mossel Bay, under the command of
Captain Palander, who, after having fixed the special meteorological
station of Captain Malmberg, will return toSweden. (Nature, July,
1881, XXIV, p. 295.)

The proposed Physical Observatory in Hong-Kong is, we regret to
see, still under consideration, notwithstanding Major Palmer’s complete
scheme was in the hands of the colonial office in 1882. It is to be hoped
that he may be engaged upon the work before he leaves China. (Na-
ture, XXVI, p. 113.)

The Shanghai General Chamber of Commerce has received an elabo-
rate report from Father de Chevrens, of Zikawei, on the proposed me-
teorological system for the protection of the Chinese shipping. He
recommends that the Zikawei Observatory should receive twice daily
observations telegraphed from Manila, Hong-Kong, Amoy, Tientsin,
Nagasaki, and Vladivostock. (Nature, xxv, p. 368.)

Woeikoff suggests that Chinese typhoon warnings will always be
unsatisfactory until telegraphic connection is made with Formosa and
the Loo Choo Islands. (Nature, xxv, p. 410.)

The Chamber of Commerce at Shanghai has failed to secure the co-
operation of the Chinese maritim customs in meteorological observa-
tions on the coast of China, but as the latter, under the inspectorate of
Sir Robert Hart, has long since promised to establish its own system, we
may still hope to see that realized. (Nature, XXVI, p. 136.)

Sir Robert Hart, inspector-general of Chinese maritime customs, has
directed that meteorological observations at all Chinese ports be sent
regularly to Shanghai; we presume that this is part of the meteorolog-
ical system promised by Mr. Hart at the Vienna Conference in 1874.
(Nature, XXvVI, p. 414.)

The telegraph line between Shanghai and Pekin—which is the first
of any length in China—has been opened to traffic, and has already
found some-useful application in the distribution of weather informa.
tion.

Maxwell Hall, of Kingston, Jamaica, writes that he is slowly pro-
gressing in his efforts to establish a proper meteorological system for
the West Indies. An international system of observation, reports, storm
warnings, &c., will be fully practicable only when the British colonial
government takes steps to encourage his labors; meanwhile he is
elaborating a system of observations for Jamaica that will, he hopes,
eventually cover the whole isle, and will be found practically useful in
weather predictions and in the development of special agricultural and
botanical enterprises. (Nature, XXv, p. 18.)

The observations made in Iceland for the Scottish Meteorological
Society by Mr. Thorlacius, show that in that island the mean barometric
374 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882.

pressure was remarkably low while the temperature was high during
the winter of 1881-82. This mild winter has been followed by a very
cold summer., A general study of the distribution of pressure and
temperature over Northern Europe during this period has been under-
taken by Wild. (Nature, XXxVI, p. 322.)

Dr. Steineger, of Norway, has been sent to establish meteorological
stations on the Russian side of the Bering Sea. [Professor Wild writes
that he has also made some effort to procure observations in that re-
gion. A knowledge of the storms of the North Pacific would seem to
be an important desideratum to the United States Signal Service if ever
it is to make early predictions of the storms that arrive on the Pacific
coast.]| (Nature, XXVI, p. 113.)

The scientific results of the Jeannette expedition were partially lost,
but the many important records will, it is believed, be published as a
part of the proceedings of the Board of Inqumry which has been investi-
gating all the particulars relating to this expedition and that of the
Rodgers, which vesselw as sent in search of the former. The Jeannette
was 20 miles northeast of Herald Island on September 5, 1880, when she
was frozen in, and for twenty-one months thereafter was drifting towards
the northwest in the ice-pack. She was lost on June 13, 1882, at 774°
north and 155° east. (Nature, XxvI, p. 479.)

The International Meteorological Committee, Messrs. Wild, Scott,
Buys-Ballot, Cantoni, de Brito Capello, Haun, Mascart, Mohn, Neu-
mayer, appointed by the Congress of Rome, held its first meeting at the
Observatory, Berne, from the 9th to the 12th of September, 1880,
All the members of the committee were present. The committee recom-
mend that each national meteorological office carry ont a comparison of
its own standard instruments with those of other countries; it also re-
commended that all organizations publish regularly the mean values for
the most important meteorological elements for the telegraphic and in-
ternational stations. Messrs. Scott and Hellmann were appointed to act
as a committee on publication of a catalogue of meteorological literature,
the cost of which was estimated at £550 for the manuscript and £750 for
the publication. Messrs. Maseart and Wild were appointed to prepare
a plan for collecting and publishing numerical tables for the reduction of
observations.

The second meeting of the International Meteorological Committee took
place at Copenhagen, August 1, 1882. The following are among the pro-
ceedings of this meeting: It was resolved, first, to organize in London an
exhibition of storm-warning and other correlated apparatus; second, to
collect information relative to meteorological observations ; third, to re-
quest precise observations as to the time of rain, &c.; fourth, to request
that monthly means be published promptly; ji/th, to secure observations
in distant localities; sixth, to encourage the publications of daily weather
charts of the Atlantic Ocean; seventh, to recognize the importance of
weather telegrams from Iceland and the Faroe Islands; eighth, to publish
METEOROLOGY. 375

the international reduction tables ; ninth, to draw up a scheme of instruc-
tions for the observation of cirrus clouds; tenth, to invite different nations
to prepare catalogues of the meteorological literature of the respective
countries. (Nature, XXVI, p. 370.)

Lieutenant-Colonel Donnelly, R. E., made some introductory historical
remarks to Professor Stokes’s first lecture of April, 1881, at the South
Kensington Museum, which was the first of the series, from which we
extract the following:

‘‘]t has been considered desirable that some explanation be given of
what has led to the formation of this Committee on Solar Physics, and
what has led to the giving of these lectures.

‘Our history commences in the year 1875, when the Royal Commis-
sion on Scientific Instruction and the Advancement of Science made
their eighth and final report, strongly recommending the establishment
by the state of an observatory for solar physics.

‘In 1876 a very large and influential deputation from the British Asso-
ciation had an interview with the then lord president of the council, the
Duke of Richmond and Gordon, with the view of urging on the Govern
ment the necessity of taking action on this and other recommendations
of the royal commission.

“The representation by the council of the British Association was fol-
lowed by a memorial from a number of eminent men of science. It was
uder those circumstances that the lords of the committee of the Council
of Education, in August, 1877, referred the question to Professor Stokes,
Professor Balfour Stewart, and General Strachey, for their opinion as
to whether a start could not be made by utilizing the advantages offered
by the laboratories at South Kensington.

“ Justatthat particular time the Indian Government had made arrange-
ments for having daily photographs taken of thesun’s disk at Dehra-Doon,
in the Northwest Provinces, by Mr. Meins, who, while he was sapper in
the Royal Engineers, had beea trained by Mr. Lockyer. The committee
of three, already referred to, reported at the end of 1877, and they state
what, in their opinion, may be done at once and without entailing any
serious cost. The report is published in the Parliamentary paper of
March 20, 1879. Nothing, however, was done at that time, and in No-
vember, 1878, the Duke of Devonshire, as chairman of the Royal Com-
mission on Scientific Instruction aud the Advancement of Science, wrote
again, calling attention to the subject and strongly urging that the
report of this committee should beacted upon. In 1879 asmall sum, £500,
was taken in the estimates for the expenses of the Committee on Solar
Physics, and this has been continued ever since. Assoon as that vote
had been put in the estimates with the sanction of the treasury a com-
mittee was formed, consisting of the gentlemen already mentioned,
namely, Professor Stokes, Professor Balfour Stewart, and General
Strachey, to whom were added Mr. Norman Lockyer, Captain Abney,
and Colonel Donnelly, R. E. This committee make annual reports to
376 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882.

both houses of Parliament, collect and reduce the solar observations
commenced by Mr. Meins in India, and report on allitems relating to this
subject. They also have inaugurated the present course of lectures on
Solar Physics.” (Nature, October 20, 1881, xxrv, p. 594.)

At the annual meeting of the Meteorological Society, London, January
18, 1882, the secretary reported the society in a remarkably flourishing
condition: the number of active fellows was 555, the annual receipts
£540 (sterling) and expenditure £197 (sterling); number of meteoro-
logical stations maintained, 83, the observations of which are regularly
published in the record. The president for the succeeding year is J.
K. Laughton. The society has published instructions to observers and
an index to the publications of English meteorological societies. (Nature,
RV pods)

Mr. G. J. Symons, president of the Meteorological Society of London,
in his annual address traced the history of English meteorological
societies from 1723 to 1880. The earliest English effort at forming an
English meteorological society, or at any rate securing observations
made with comparable instruments, recorded upon a uniform system,
was made in 1723, by Dr. James Jurin, then secretary to the Royal
Society. Ina Latin address made that year by Dr. Jurin, he antici-
pated nearly all the conditions which are now considered essential for
comparable observations. This appeal did not lead to much being done,
and in 1744 another attempt was made by Mr. Roger Pickering, I’. R.S.,
who read before the Royal Society a paper entitled ‘‘Scheme of a diary
of the weather, together with drafts and descriptions of machines sub-
servient thereunto.” The Meteorological Society of the Palatinate was
established in 1780 under the auspices of the Elector Charles Theedore,
who not only gave it the support of his public patronage but entered
with spirit and ability into its pursuits and furnished it with the means
of defraying the expense of instruments of the best construction, which
were gratuitously disiributed over Europe and even to America. One
of the first acts of the association was to write to all the principal uni-
versities, scientific academies, and colleges, soliciting their co-operation
and offering to present them with all the necessary instruments, properly
verified by standards and free of expense. The offer was accepted by
thirty societies, and the list of distinguished men who undertook to
make the observations shows the importance which was attached to the
plan and the zeal with which it was promoted in every part of the con-
tinent. In 1823 the first meeting of the Meteorological Society of Lon-
don was held, and was attended by Luke Howard, Thomas Foster, Dr.
Birbeck, and others. After 1824 the society languished but was never
regularly dissolved. Owing to several letters and articles which ap-
peared in Loudon’s Magazine of Natural History, a meeting was held on
November 15, 1836, at which the society was revived, W. H. White
appointed secretary, and regular meetings resumed. Application was
made to the Royal Society for permission to compare the instruments
METEOROLOGY. DLE

of the society with the Royal Society’s standards, and leave was granted
March 13, 1838. A volume of Transactions was published in 1839, and.
among other articles contains one entitled “‘Remarks on the present
state of meteorological science, by John s‘uskin.” The cost of the pub-
lication of this volume exhausted the funds of the society, but in 1841
Mr. Guteh undertook personally the pecuniary risk of a new publica-
tion entitled the Quarterly Journalof Meteorology; but this does not ap-
pear to have been very successful owing to the high rate of postage.
Shortly after this the socicty practically came to an end. On April 3,
1850, a meeting of some friends of the science was convened by Dr. Lee,
at Hartwell, when the “ British Meteorological Society” was established,
and Mr. 8. C. Whitbread elected president. The first general meeting
of the members was not held till March 25, 1851, but in the meanwhile
several important steps had been taken by the council. Annual reports
were published from 1851 to 1861, and since then five volumes of the
Proceedings and six volumes of the Quarterly Journal have been pub-
lished. Up to 1858 nothing had been done towards forming a Jibrary,
but in 1862 a catalogue was published containing about 200 titles. In
1876 a new catalogue was issued, which extends to 80 pages and con-
tains over 1,200 entries. On January 27, 1866, the society obtained a
royal charter of incorporation, and has since been known as the ‘‘Mete-
orological Society.” On April 4, 1872, the council resolved upon taking
a room for an office and for the protection of the library, and appointed
Mr. Mariott as their assistant secretary. The subsequené eight years
have been characterized by great progress. <A series of second-order |
stations has been organized, which are systematically inspected and at
which strictly comparable observations are made. On January 1, 1880,
another and larger series of stations, called climatolcgical, was started,
at which the observations are less onerous than those at the second-
order stations, but at which they are required to be equally accurate.
Observations on natural periodical phenomena are also made at many
places, and discussed yearly by the Rev. T. A. Preston.

At the request of the society a conference has been appointed, con-
sisting of delegates from several other societies, to prepare accurate
instructions respecting the erection of lightning-conductors. (Nature,
January 27, 1881, xxt1I, p. 307.)

Prof. W. Forster, the director of the Berlin Observatory, made an
interesting communication to the Geographical Society of Berlin re-
garding one of the most important tasks of travelers in unknown
regions, t. e., the exact determination of latitude, longitude, and eleva-
tion above sea-level. In several of the results of recent German
expeditions serious errors in this regard were detected. Professor
Forster stated that the Berlin Observatory staff would shortly be in a
position to undertake the practical and theoretical instruction of trav-
elers and to superintend the selection, testing, and packing of the neces-
378 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882.

sary scientific instruments for the various expeditions before starting.
(Nature, March 3, 1881, xxi, p. 420.)

A meteorological observatory has been erected at Port-au-Prince,
Hayti, under the care of Rev. Father Wieck, on ground granted by
the state. It is an octagon of two stories and a platform. Besides
the indispensable instrument it has electric clocks (for communicating
time to clocks outside), telephones, microphones, phonographs, radiom-
eters, &c. (Nature, March 31, 1881, xx111, p. 516.)

A meteorological conference was held at Sydney in November, 1879,
the representatives of the different colonies being Messrs. James Hee-
tor, of New Zealand, Charles Todd, of South Australia, R. L. J. Ellery,
of Victoria, and H. C. Russell of New South Wales. The whole ques-
tion of weather telegrams was under consideration. The system then
in operation embraced only the colonies of South Australia, Victoria,
New South Wales, and Queensland, but a resolution was passed declar-
ing it desirable to secure the co-operation of the Governments of West-
ern Australia, Tasmania, and New Zealand in the system of intercolonial
weather telegrams. The conference voted that weather telegrams and
forecasts shall in all cases depend upon the observations used for gen-
eral meteorological and climatological statistics. Much emphasis was
laid on the establishment of high-level stations with a more special view
to the investigation of the winds, and the conference recommended that
there be established in each of the colonies, upon a high mountain peak,
a meteorological observatory for the special study of winds and other
meteorological phenomena. (Nature, XXI1, p. 160.)

Prof. Sophus Tromholt, of Bergen, Norway, writes that in order to
get nearer, if possible, to the unraveling of the mysteries of the au-
rora borealis, he has in the course of the last two years endeavored to
procure a greater number of observations of this phenomenon in Nor-
way, Sweden, and Denmark. He has succeeded in engaging through-
out the above-named countries several hundreds of observers, who, led
only by scientific interest, have given him their assistance, and from whom
he has already received a considerable amount of information. These
observations are to be continued, as there is reason to suppose that the
aurora borealis in the near future will appear much more frequently
than has been the case during the last years. Finland and Iceland will
also now be drawn within the circle, and, it would be most desirable that
similar observations were made also in Great Britain, which country,
especially in the maximum years of the appearance of the aurora bore-
alis, certainly would yield characteristic contributions in this respect.
He therefore invites friends of science to make such observations in
accordance with the system which he has introduced in Seandinavia.
A schedule for recording observations, along with the necessary instruc-
tions, will be sent to any one who desires them. (Natwre, XXU, p. 192.)

Miss Pogson has been appointed meteorological reporter to the gov-
ernment of the Madras Presidency, India.
METEOROLOGY. 379

The German Government has been requested by many eminent hydrol-
ogists to establish a hydrological ‘“* Reiche-Centralstelle.” They con-
sider hydrological researches extending over the whole empire neces-
sary for the general welfare, with regard to the general utilization of
water and for the general protection of arable lands agaist floods and
inundations. As these researches would necessarily often be combined
with meteorological observations, it is proposed to connect the Hydro-
logical Office with the Meteorological Central Office. The work would
have to be done principally by hydrologists and meteorologists, but
the staff would have to comprise geologists, agricualturists, and forest-
rangers. (Nature, July 21, 1881, Vol. xxiv, p. 265.)

Sir G. B. Airy, in his annual report, June 4, 1881, reviews the rela-
tion of Greenwich Observatory to meteorology, navigation, and the sub-
jects in which he has taken an interest as bearing on navigation. The
self-recording apparatus of the observatory has all been altered, so that
the time scales are uniform throughout. The earth-current register on
ordinary telegraph lines indicates the existence of numerous petty fluetu-
ations that almost completely mask the proper feature of earth currents.
The photographie records of carrents on buried lines continue to be
maintained with regularity. A new pressure plate has been supplied to
the Osler anemometer. Campbell’s sunshine recorder has continued in
action during this its fifth complete year. The discussion of the elec-
trometer results for 1879 shows that on days of magnetic disturbance,
when aurora is visible, nothing unusual is shown by this instrument.
The greatest electric disturbances are observed in showery weather and
during thunder-storms. The Greenwich and Deal time-balls are dropped
regularly at 1 p.m., and an hourly bell to be established at The Start is
urged. (Nature, June 9, 1881, xxiv, p. 128.)

The first annual report of Mr. Christie, Astronomer Royal, June 8,
1882, shows that these observations are kept up as usual. (Nature,
XXV, p. 140.)

The voluntary retirement of Sir G. B. Airy, in the eightieth year of
his age, and the appointment of Mr. Christie to the directorship of the
Royal Observatory will not materially affect the maintenance of the
long series of magnetic and meteorological observations conducted at
Greenwich.

The Algerian system of meteorological observations extends to forty-
eight stations, of which thirty-six send daily reports by telegraph. Storm
warnings are sent from the central station to twelve sea-coast stations.
The office is under the control of military engineers, and is independent
of the French Bureau at Paris. (Nature, xxv, p. 492.)

The London Meteorological Council have taken every practicable step
to obtain the largest possible number of meteorological observations
from the North Atlantic Ocean during the years 1882 and 1883. Their
circular inviting these observations states that they propose to prepare
daily weather charts similar to (but possibly more elaborate than) those
380 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882.

that have for some years been published by the Army Signal Office.
As the latter office has received reports from about 560 vessels, it is
evident that the proposed work of the London office is one of no small
magnitude. We hope tbat it may give a great stimulus to meteorolog-
ical observations at sea. (Nature, xxv, p. 606.)

Mr. Cruls, temporarily director of the observatory at Rio Janeiro,
has established the publication of the astronomical bulletin of that ob-
servatory. He has also established a time-ball similar to that at Green-
wich. (Nature, XXVI, p. 352.)

A great international fisheries exhibition will be held in London, at
the Gardens of the Royal Horticultural Society, in 1883. At the Copen-
hagen meeting of the International Meteorological Committee it was
resolved to invite the weather bureaus of all countries to contribute at
the sane time towards a complete display of all systems of forecasting
weather and forewarning of storms, and of whatever else in their work
seemed to bear upon the fishing industries. (Nature, Vol. XXvVI, p. 480.)

3ischoffsheim, the member of the French Deputies for Nice, having
built a fine observatory near that city, on Mont Gros, at an altitude of
about 1,000 feet, and within a park of 80 acres, has appointed Perrotin
director of the observatory, Carvallo assistant director, and Puiseux
in charge of meteorologic and magnetic observations. The observa-
tory will be under the general charge of the Bureau of Longitudes, its
entire cost and endowment having been donated by the munificent
banker.

The French departmental meteorological commissions hold an annual
meeting under the presidency of the minister of public instruction.
At the meeting of April 18, 1882, it was announced that the Central
Bureau receives daily 97 telegrams from foreign parts and 52 from
France. Five maps are drawn in the morning and three in the evening ;
warnings are sent by telegraph to aid agricultural and maritime districts;
82 per cent. of verifications are claimed. (Nature, xx1, p. 593.)

A geographical association was established in 1882 at Jena, under
the presidency of Dr. E. E. Schmid.

At the annual distribution of prizes by the Paris Academy of Sciences,
February 6, 1882, the prize of 5,000 francs was awarded to Brault for
his studies in marine meteorology.

The Royal Agricultural and Commercial Society of British Guiana
proposes to publish meteorological information in its journal, edited by
Mr. E. . Im-Thurn. Itis to be earnestly hoped that the meteorology of
this interesting part of the world may be more thoroughly studied. (Na-
ture, XXV, p. 419.)

Neumayer and Buys-Ballot have respectively received gold medals
from the Dutch Society of Sciences at Harlem for eminent services in
meteorology. Among the prize subjects announced by this society for
the year 1883 are the mariner’s compass, the diffusion of light, the con-
METEOROLOGY. 3381

densation of gases on solid substances, and electric discharge in rarefied
gases. (Nature, XXVI, p. 510.)

Sir Charles Wyville Thomson, born 1830, March 5, at Linlithgow,
Scotland, died March 10, 1882, at Edinburgh, specially known to meteor-
ologists by his great contributions to our knowledge of ocean tempera-
tures, depths, and currents. (Nature, xxv, p. 467.)

Thomas Romney Robinson, D. D., born in Dublin, April 25, 1792, died
at Armagh, March 7, 1882. In 1824 Dr. Robinson was appointed di-
rector of the Armagh Observatory, and has long been the oldest liv-
ing English astronomer. In meteorology he is especially known by his
invention and theory of the hemispherical cup or Robinson anemometer.
(Nature, Xxv, p. 468.)

Mr. J. L. E. Dreyer, formerly of the Dunsink Observatory, has been
appointed to succeed Dr. Robinson.

Prof. W. B. Rogers, president of the Massachusetts Institute of Tech-
nology, born in Philadelphia, December, 1805, died suddenly in Boston,
May 30, 1882. Although especially active in geology, yet of late years
the whole range of physical sciences were enriched by his remarkably
lucid presentations. (Nature, XXVI, p. 182.)

Prof. Dr. J. C. F. Zolner, born November 8, 1834, at Berlin, died in
1882 at Leipsic. His papers on celestial photometry and spectroscopy
of the solar prominences have important bearings on meteorology.
During recent years he is said to have had almost entirely confined his
attention to non-scientific subjects. (Nature, xxv, p. 88.)

Dr. P. A. Bergsma, well known by the important and meteorological
work that he has for the past fifteen years carried on as director of the
Observatory of Batavia, was returning to Holland, where he was to
have been settled in an important scientific position when, unfortu-
nately for science, on the way through the Red Sea he died on May 1,
1882.

Mr. Scott Russell, the eminent engineer, died on Thursday, June 8,
1882, in London, in the seventy-fifth year of his age. Beside his im-
portant work in engineering he is especially known to physicists by
his researches upon waves and wave-motions, the resistance of moving
water, &c. (Nature, XXVI, p. 159.)

J. A. Gautier, born in 1792 died December, 1881, at the age of eighty-
nine. Gautier was the Nestor in the scientific circles of Switzerland,
and has been long known as a worker in astronomy and terrestrial
magnetism.

Dr. Isaac I. Hayes, well known by his meteorological observations
in the Arctic seas, died December 18, 1881, in New York City.

Rebert Mallet, born in Dublin June 30, 1810, died November 5, 1881.
Besides his numérous valuable improvements in departments of engi-
neering, he has made his name famous by his laborsin terrestrial physics,
especially in whatever related to earthquake phenomena and volcanic
energy.
382 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882.

Prof. John William Draper, born in England May 4, 1811, died in
New York January 4, 1882; best known by his scientific work in acti-
nometry and by his valuable historical and medical works.

Prof. BE. Plantamour, born in Geneva in 1815, died September 7, 1882.
Beside his extensive works in astronomy and geodesy, pendulntal &e.,
he will always be remembered in meteorology for his contributions to
barometric hypsometry. (Nature, XXVI, p. 505.)

The death is announced, in July, 1882, of G. C. Brauer, for a long
time mechanician to the Pulkova Observatory, and latterly, also, to the
Central Physical Observatory. Russian astronomers and physicists
have greatly profited by his remarkable ability in the construction of
scientific instruments.

Liitke, the well-known Russian navigator and explorer, hare at St.
Petersburg September 29, 1797, died August, 1882. His explorations
of the coast of Nova Zembla, 1821 to 1824, and his voyage around the
world, 1826 to 1828, in which Lenz was the chief of the scientific staff,
gave him a prominent position in the geographical world. (Nature,
XXVI, p. 447.)

Giffard, born in 1825, died April, 1882. This eminent French engi-
neer is known the world over as the inventor of the famous injector, and
to meteorologists by his constiuction of the great captive balloon at
Paris and its utilization for meteorological observations. (Nature, ¥x1,
p. 091.) :

The Rev. Humphrey Lloyd, D. D., provost of Trinity College, Dub-
lin, died on the 17th of June, 1851, at the age of eighty-one years. Dr.
Lloyd’s contributions to scientific literature have been many and im-
portant. His father had been provost before him, and his own life has
been equally divided between devotion to science (1824 to 1862) and to
education (1862 to 1881). Optics, magnetism, and meteorology have alk
been advanced by his labors. In company with Sir John Herschel he
succeeded in carrying out the desire of the British Association for the
Advancement of Science, that the British Government should carry on
magnetic and meteorologic observations throughout the globe. (Nature,
January 20, 1881, XxIII, pp. 275 and 292.)

Il.—a GENERAL TREATISES; b HISTORY; ¢ CLIMATE.

The second edition of Thomson and Tait’s Treatise on Natural Phi-
losophy, Vol. I, Parts I and II, is in the press; so also a volume of
mathematical and physical papers, by Sir William Thomson, relating
especially to thermo-dynamics and to be followed soon by other vol-
umes. The second and third volumes of Professor Stokes’ mathemati-
cal and physical papers are also nearly completed. (Nature, XXv, p. 613.)

Professor Oberbeck publishes in Wiedeman’s Annalen amemoir on the
motions of the atmosphere on the surface of the earth, in which the most
recent principles of aero-dynanrics find full application. This work is
METEOROLOGY. 383

therefore virtually an extension of Ferrel’s well-known memoirs, in which
latter only the simpler mathematical principles are involved.

E. D. Archibald furnishes English readers with a highly appreciative
review of the important meteorological researches of Prof. William Fer-
rel. He finds that Ferrel’s results are in every way confirmed by the
statistical works of Ley, Meldrum, and others. Viewing the work as a
whole, hesays: ‘“ The author may be congratulated on having presented
to the world a memoir of such luminous research. When we compare
his work with the numerous crude treatises and hypotheses evolved dur-
ing the past half century we feel a deep sense of relief at finding the
question dealt with by a mathematician of ability.” (Nature, XXVI, pp.
8 and 33.)

Chevreul communicates to the Paris Academy of Sciences evidence
that General Joseph Hubert, the friend and successor of Poivre in the
island of Réunion, recognized as early as 1788 (some ten years before
German and English savants) the gyratory character of cyclones. In
1818 Hubert got the complete and correct formula expressing their
double motion of gyration and translation (several years before Dove).
(Nature, XXVI, p. 496.)

Bjerknes, of Christiania, after devoting fifteen years to the mathe-
matical theory of the mutual action of vibrating bodies immersed in a
liquid, has been able to so completely master the subject as to devise
apparatus that perfectly exemplifies his theoretical results, and shows
that the action of such vibrating planes and spheres upon the surround-
ing incompressible fluid reproduces nearly all the phenomena of mag-
netic and electrical attraction, diamagnetism, and magneto-induction.
His apparatus was shown at the Paris electrical exhibition, 1881, and is
well illustrated in Nature, xxv, p. 272.

A recent number of the Japan Gazette contains a translation of a
work written in 1521, entitled “‘ Ideas about Heaven and Earth,” which is
essentially an exposition of Japanese ideas on meteorology. Of course
this is mostly of the nature of the most primitive philosophy, and it is
said that the work represents the ideas of educated Japanese fifty years
ago, but that the present generation has entirely outgrown them. (Na-
ture, XXVI, p. 15.) :

Among the bibliographical works we notice acomplete index of works
and papers published by different members of the Bohemian Associa-
tion at Prague. This valuable work is published in the annual reports.
of the society. (Nature, XXxv1, p. 165.)

Piazzi Smyth communicates to the Royal Society of Edinburgh a pa-
per on the meteorology of Madeira. The humidity at Madeira is traced
by him to the influence of the Gulf Stream. Observations with the
psychrometer and spectroscope prove the climate of Madeira to be re-
markably humid. (Nature, xxvi, pp. 47, 48.) This subject is further
elaborated in his litthe volume, ‘‘ Madeira Meteorology.”
384 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882.

Among recent climatological changes perhaps none are more interest-
ing than the conclusion of Dr. Lenz with reference to the African Sa-
hara, which region Dr. Lenz explored in 1880. The northern portion of
the Sahara is a plateau, 1,200 feet high, consisting of horizontal Devonian
strata. South of this are depressions 400 feet above sea-level, but the
remainder of the desert is 800 or 900 feet high. Evidences were fre-
quently seen of the ancient fertility and population of the desert. Dur-
ing his forty-three days’ travel through the Sahara, Dr. Lenz observed
that the temperature was not excessive; it usually was from 54° to
36° C., and only in the Igidi region it reached 45°. The wind blew
mostly from northwest, and it was only south of Tandeni that the trav-
eler experienced the hot south winds (edrash) of the desert. As to the
theory of northeastern trade-winds being the cause of the formation
of the desert, Dr. Lenz remarks that he never observed such a wind,
nor did his men; it must be stopped by the hilly tracts of the north.
Another important remark of Dr. Lenz is what he makes with respect
to the frequent description of the Sahara as a sea-bed. Of course it was
ander the sea, but during the Devonian, Cretaceous, and Tertiary periods.
As to the sand which covers it now, it has nothing to do with the sea;
it is the product of destruction of sandstones by atmospheric agencies.
Northern Africa was not always a desert, and the causes for its being
so now must be sought for, not in geological but meteorological influ-
ences. (Nature, XXV, p. 211.)

Dr. F. Augustin communicates to Sitzungsberichte a paper on the cli-
mate of Prague, being a summary of meteorological observations made
since 1840, and also a paper on the influence of cloudiness on the diurnal
march of temperature at that station. The average temperatures are
for winter, —0°.56 C.; for spring, 8°.77; for summer, 19°.01; for autumn,
9°.60; for the year, 99.18. (Nature, XXvI, p. 165.)

The London Meteorological Office has published a volume of charts
on the meteorology of the ocean in the neighborhood of the Cape of Good
Hope. These charts, among other things, show by means of Galton’s
wind-rose the probability for any particular place and season of a wind
from any point of the compass. In combining the wind observations,
an attempt has been made to allow for the tendency of the marine ob-
servers to overestimate adverse winds. The charts show in an inter-
esting manner the intermingling of hot and cold water currents in that
portion of the ocean. (Nature, xxv, p. 140.)

From seven and a half years’ observation at Alexandria, Egypt, the
following summary of its climatological features is derived. Atmos-
pheric pressure is remarkably steady, the annual range being three-
tenths of an inch. During the winter months, northerly and southerly
winds are almost equally frequent, but during the summer months
northerly. The lowest relative humidity occurs during winter, and the
maximum in July; but the average cloudiness is a maximum, namely,
0.4 in winter, with a minimum of 0.1 in summer. The minimum tem-
METEOROLOGY. 385

perature is 58° in January, and the maximum 79° in August. The mean
annual rainfall is 8.12 inches. During these seven and a half years, on
thirteen occasions the rainfall for one day exceeded an inch. On ad-
vancing from the Mediterranean southward into the interior the rainfall
- becomes less, the air becomes drier and the sky clearer, the sun’s heat
stronger, the nights cooler. (Nature, XXVI, p. 339.)

In reference to oceanic influences upon climate, Rev. Samuel Hangh-
ton writes:

“The Gulf Stream of the North Atlantic, so far from ‘fending off’
imaginary cold-water streams from the polar regions, is the cause of
their existence. If there were no Gulf Stream, there could be no Labra-
dor current of cold water running south. The same statement is true
of the Kuro-Siwo of the North Pacific, of the Brazilian current of the
South Atlantic, and of the Mozambique current of the Indian, Ocean.

“Tf the globe were covered with water, or in the condition of an archi-
pelago, pretty uniformly distributed, there would be no exchange be-
tween the tropics and the poles, and consequently no effect upon climate.
Within the tropics there would be a broad, slow current of warm water
moving from east to west, and producing no effect upon climate. In
the temperate zones there would be in the northern hemisphere a feeble
interchange of southwesterly and northeasterly currents, and in the
southern hemisphere a similar interchange of northwesterly and south-
_ easterly currents, both incapable of affecting climate to any sensible
degree.

“Tf a north and south barrier be constructed to the westward of a
locality like the west of Europe, such a barrier as North and South
America affords, a gulf stream is at once formed and a corresponding
Labrador current running in the opposite direction. The effect of the
Gulf Stream is to raise the temperature of the west of Europe to its
maximum, and the effect of the Labrador current is to depress the tem-
perature of the east coast of North America to its minimum.

“Tt is impossible to suggest any rearrangement of land and water
which shall sensibly raise the temperature of the west of Europe or sensi-
bly depress the temperature of the east of North America.” (Nature, 1880,
XXIII, pp. 98, 99.)

In reviewing the daily simultaneous weather maps of the northern
hemisphere and the accompanying monthly means, as published by the
Army Signal Office, Nature says: “The questions which a perusal of
these maps raises are of the first importance, whether we consider the
atmospheric changes they disclose, these being repeatedly so vast as to
stretch across four continents at one time, besides being often profoundly
interesting from their influence on the food supplies and the commercial
intercourse of nations, or the large problems hereby presented, with
hints toward their solution, which underlie physical geography, climat-
ology, and other branches of atmospheric physics. We have thus had

shown us from month to month, in a way not hitherto possible, the great
H. Mis. 26 25

386 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882.

atmospheric changes by oceans and continents, including the important
parts played in bringing about these changes by mountain ranges, ex-
tensive plateaus, and physically well defined river basins. Much yet,
however, remains to be done, principally by extending the net-work of
observation in order that the weather-maps may show, in an approxi-
mately adequate manner, the meteorology also of the North Pacific and —
southern hemisphere. Till this be done many fundamental questions
cannot be discussed, such as the inter-relations of the different conti-
nents and oceans of the globe in their bearings on successive meteoro-
logical changes; and the important inquiry as to whether the pressure
_ of the earth’s atmosphere be practically a constant from month to month,
and if not, what are the conditions or forces on which the observed dif-
ferences depend. For the bringing of this great international work to
so happy consummation we look with confidence to the War Depart-
ment of the United States, since this implies no more than a continuance
of the same energy and enlightened liberality that have won for the
Americans their position in meteorology.” (Nature, 1880, xx11, p. 40.)

Ill.—a AERONAUTICS; b BAROMETERS; ¢c THERMOMETERS; d ANE-
MOMETERS; ¢ MISCELLANEOUS APPARATUS AND METHODS.

On September 1, 1881, an Aeronautical Society was founded at Berlin,
under the presidency of Dr. William Augerstein.

Mouchez has proposed to undertake meteorological observations at
an elevation of over one mile by means of a captive balloon, in connec-
tion with the investigation of atmospheric refraction. (Nature, xxv,
ptos.)

According to Nature, XXv, p. 565, this project has been given up, but
the captive balloon will be established at the Mont Souris Meteorolog-
ical Observatory.

The British War Office is systematically experimenting with a view
to improvements in the application of the balloon to military operations,
and has also offered to co-operate with the meteorological office in the
utilization of its ascensions for the study of the atmosphere.

The celebrated American aeronaut, S. A. King, has lately made sev-
eral instructive voyages, notably one in which the Signal Service took
part wherein the balloon lay becalmed for twelve hours. It is very
desirable that such work should be more systematically carried on.
(Nature, XXII, p. 113.)

A special department of aeronautics has been established in the En-
gineers and Architects’ Union at Vienna. The application of aeronautics
to meteorological study is especially cultivated. (Nature, Xx11, p. 232.)

The aeronautic organization in the French army display their system
of captive balloons, for signaling, reconnoitering, and photographing
at the fétes in Paris in September, 1882. The Paris Academy of Aero-
station also made a full trial of their system of aerial panoramic pho-
tography. (Nature, XXVI, p. 482.)
METEOROLOGY. 387

Some of the results of the observations made from the two balloons
sent up from the Crystal Palace, London, on Thursday, October 21,
1880, are as follows: The direction of the wind was remarkably steady,
as during the run the two balloons were constantly kept in view of each
other in spite of the want of light and of aerial transparency. This result
is all the more to be noted that the variations in the altitude of the two
balloons were frequent and considerable, 10 to 5,000 feet. The varia-
tion of temperature did not amount to more than 5° C. between the
maximum of the readings and their minimum. A peculiar current was
observed just on arriving on the coast, which is usual under such cir-
cumstances. The composition of the clouds was very complex. First a
layer of transparent fog covered almost the whole of the land and gave
a watery appearance to it; second, cumuli described as analogous to
pulled bread were floating at a height of 1,000 meters and descended
gradually as the sun was nearing the horizon; and, lastly, a large
number of parallel strati stretching southwesterly in the direction of
the syn, and seemingly diverging from it. The velocity of the wind
was about half a mile per minute, and pretty well determined by ob-
servers located in one of the two towers of the Crystal Palace. As to
the prognostication of the route, it was nicely done by Mr. Coxwell,
who told M. de Fonvielle that he should land between Portsmouth and
Winchester. A question arose between M. de Fonvielleand Commander
Cheyne about the bearing, the latter’s compass having been reversed
by an optical illusion, but the azimuth was given with great accuracy,
and the uncertainty between the two would not have lasted for a minute
if the possibility of the error could have been ascertained. The swing-
ing of the balloon round its axis was sufficient to prevent the use of a
new compass designed on purpose for aeronauts. (Nature, Xx, p. 615.)

M. Jules Godard, the well-known aeronaut, has invented an electrical
warner; when the balloon is descending an electrical bell is set in
operation; when it is ascending another bell rings. This effect is ob-
tained very simply by a valve which is in equilibrium when the balloon
keeps its level, but is moved by a slight wind. (A similar result is ob-
tained by the use of the horizontal balanced fan or vane introduced by
the writer in 1872 and 1881 in balloon ascents for the Signal Office.)
(Nature, August, 1881, xxTv, p. 340.)

M. W. de Fonvielle, editor of LD’ Llectricité, and M. Lippmann, one of
his contributors, made a balloon ascent on July 2, 1881, shortly after
midnight. The descent took place near Rambouillet, at a quarter past
five, the distance traversed being 48 kilometers. The ballonists carried
with them a small Planté accumulator with a special safety electric
lamp constructed by Trouvé, composed of a platinum wire ineclosed in a
glass tube. While the apparatus did not weigh more than 1 kilogram,
it gave sufficient light for reading the barometer and thermometer, and
writing notes with accuracy. A special luminous compass for aeronauts
388 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882.

will be constructed on this plan and sent to the Exhibition of Elec-
tricity. (Nature, July, 1881, xxiv, p. 2265.)

At the festivities in Paris, 1882, two balloons will ascend connected
by telephone wires, and it is hoped if such connection can be maintained
to make interesting observations on sound, wind, electricity, &e.

One of the greatest velocities recorded in aeronautic voyages 1s that ex-
perienced on the trip of Mr. Joseph Simmons on June 10, who passed
from England to France, 170 miles, in 13 hours, or very nearly 100 miles
per hour. (In 1869 Prof. S. A. King traveled from New York into
Canada, 400 miles, in 4 hours.) (Nature, XXvI, p. 160.)

Carlier has made a number of balloon ascensions in Paris in order to
test the possibility of steering a balloon by means of a large oar with a
wooden handle, and weighing altogether about 25 pounds; the surface
of the blade of the oar was about 2 square yards, and its efficacy in
sculling seems incontestable. (Nature, XXVI, p. 17.)

One of Jordan’s glycerine barometers (see Nature, XXI, p. 377) has
been erected at the office of the London Times, and its records are pub-
lished daily in that paper. It seems unquestionable that an instrument
showing like this on a large scale the minute changes in atmospheric
pressure will be very useful for public-use in seaports, collieries, We.
(Nature, Xxi, p. 614.)

Professor Kraevitch, of St. Petersburg, exhibited at the annual
meeting of the Association of Russian Naturalists, 1879, his new self-
’ recording barometer, which amplifies 140 times the oscillations of a
common mercury barometer, and is very sensitive. (Nature, XXU,
p. 208.)

Professors Dufour and Amstein describe a simple registering barom-
eter, now in use in the Meteorological Observatory of Lausanne. It
depends on displacement of the center of gravity of a glass tube con-
taining mereury. The form of the tube may be described as that of an
L leading down toa U by a vertical portion. The lower end is open.
The tube swings in the plane of its angles on a horizontal axis placed
above the center of gravity; with increased barometric pressure it
inclines to the right, with decreased pressure to ‘the left; and these
movements are recorded by means of a style attached to the U part
and applied to a moving strip of paper. By a simple contrivance
the pendulum of the clock is made to impart a slight shock every
second swing to the tube so as to destroy any adherence of mercury.
(Nature, XXv, p. 374.)

Kraevitch has investigated the limit of rarefaction possible to be
obtained by means of the mercury pump. He maintains that the tube
will always remain filled with vapor of mercury and the vapors of the
desiccating substances, so that it is impossible to obtain the low press-
ure of 0.00004 as maintained by Mr. Crookes. After asketch of differ-
ent air-pumps, he recommends that of Mendelieff. By means of this*he
says “that the elasticity of the permanent gases may be reduced to
METEOROLOGY. 389

0.0002, but the pressure of the vapor of mercury always remains.” (Na-
ture, XXV, p. 377.)

At the meeting of the Physical Society, June 23, 1882, Dr. Braun
exhibited a somewhat modified Huyghens barometer, which had both at
the upper and the lower meniscus of mercury points for exact measure-
ment, and which served to measure both the variations and the amount
of air pressure. (Nature, Vol. XXvI, p. 240.)

J.T. Brown communicates to Nature an historical summary of the
various forms of barometer, mercurial and aneroid, including self-regis-
tering. The various forms which this instrument has assumed during
the past two hundred years form a very instructing study and should
receive the attention of those novices who are perpetually inventing
and patenting the so-called new devices. American literature on this
subject seems to have been only partially examined by Mr. Brown, as
we find only very imperfect notices or entire omissions of some well-
known names. Of foreign names, we especially miss Ernst, Fuess, and
Wild & Brauer, of St. Petersburg, and especially Mendelieff, whose
method of isolating all gases that may chance to remain in the vacuum
chamber seems to us a capital suggestion. (Nature, XXVI, p. 282.)

In a further communication on his gravity barometer, Mascart states
that he made a rough trial of his instrument in his journey to Norway.
He finds that it is easily transportable, and its precision is apparently
not less than that obtained with the pendulum. One has merely to
observe the mercury-level and the temperature, and the installation
may be done in less than an hourinahotel room. (Nature, xXVI, p. 616.)

J. Joly, of Dublin, communicates a description of a barometer record-
ing by electricity ; the idea being that as the barometer rises and falls
an electric current passing through a fine wire dipped in the mercury
will have its potential altered by every change in the height of the
barometer. (Nature, xxv, p. 560.)

Hagen makes to the Physical Society at Berlin a report on experiments
for measuring the vapor-tension of mercury at various temperatures.
The values given by Regnault are very unsatisfactory. Hagen’s ap-
paratus consists of a U-shaped tube, by having at the lower part along
straight tube united to it by fusion, while above either branch termi-
nated in a tube twice bent at a right angle and closed at the lower end.
By means of a Hagen air-pump this tube-system was gradually evacu-
ated to a pressure of y5505000 ™™ mercury, and the long straight tube
opened under mercury at the lower end. The mercury rose in both
branches of the U-tube to barometric height. One of the lateral ends
of the apparatus was now kept constant at 0°, while the other was first
cooled to —42° and then heated to various temperatures. Each time
the position of the mercury in the two branches was observed with a
cathetometer, and the difference of their heights gave the vapor-tension.
The values so obtained for the vapor-tension of the mercury were less
for a]l temperatures than those given by Regnault. Thus, e.g., Herr Ha-
390 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882.

gen found the tension at 0° —0.015™™, Regnault, 0.02; at 20°, Hagen,
0.021, Regnault, 0.037; at 100°. Hagen, 0.61, Regnault, 0.75; at 200°, Ha-
gen, 16, Regnault, 19.9™™. Though the values now found have no claim to
absolute accuracy (owing to the difficulty of taking readings with the
ecathetometer through round glass), these experiments at least make
certain that the Regnault values for the vapor-tension of mercury, which
have passed into all text-books, are considerably too large. (Nature,
XXVI, p. 168.)

Professor Rucker, in a paper “On the calibration of mercurial ther-
mometers, by Bessel’s method,” stated that the late Mr. Welsh, of Kew
Observatory, described to the British Association, in 1853, the methods
which he introduced of making and correcting mercurial thermometers.
The correction with which the author dealt was that due to the variations
in the bore of the tube. Mr. Welsh’s method of making this correction,
which is still employed at Kew, is less theoretically perfect than others,
and has been unfavorably criticised abroad. The author, in conjunction
with Professor Thorpe, has recently corrected a number of thermome-
ters with great care by Bessel’s method. One set of three thermometers
was made for them at Kew and calibrated according to Welsh’s method.
Afterwards the measurements necessary for the application of Bessel’s
method were made by the Kew authorities, the calculations being per-
formed by the author and Professor Thorpe. The Kew thermometers
were thus subjected to the mostrigorous possible test, and they were able
to announce that in one instrument the’errors left after the application
of Welsh’s method were not greater than four-thousandths of a degree
centigrade, and in no case did they exceed one-hundredth of a degree.
As it is impossible to read on these thermometers less than a hundredth
of a degree with certainty, Welsh’s method, as applied at Kew, is prac-
tically perfect. (Nature, September, 1881, xxv1, p. 467.)

The alteration of the zero of thermometers after undergoing sudden
changes of temperature is a well-known phenomenon, as is also the
gradual rise in the zero in thermometers during the first few months
after they have been made. M. Pernet has lately examined the ques-
tion whether the distance between the “ boiling point” and the “ freez-
ing point” of a thermometer is constant at all different stages of secular
alterations in volume of the bulbs, and finds that this is so, provided
the freezing point be determined immediately after the boiling point.
On the other hand, if the boiling point be determined and a long inter-
val elapse before the zero is determined, there is considerable error.
Suppose a thermometer to be (owing to recent heating or to long rest)
in any particular molecular state. In this state its reading will prob-
ably be in error; but this amount (so far as due to the above cause)
may be ascertained by immediately plunging the thermometer into
ice, and observing the error of the zero reading. In order that a ther-
mometer should read rightly at any particular temperature it should be
exposed for a considerable time to the temperature for which exact
METEOROLOGY. 391

measure is desired, or else for a few minutes to a slightly higher tem-
perature. (Nature, July, 1881, xxtv, 294.)

Mr. Crafts communicates to the Paris Academy of Sciences, a paper
on the depression of the zero point of the mercurial thermometer. He
finds that the greater the interval between the temperature that has
produced a depression and that at which the thermometers are kept in
order to raise it again, the slower is the movement; he gives a table
by which the depression through heating may be estimated. (Nature,
2 O10 en Oa eS

Dr. Leonard Waldv suggests slight changes in the manufacture of
the Kew standard thermometers as follows:

1. The calibrating chamber at the top of the thermometer is now
made as in the figure, where cad is the capillary column, which expands
at a into the calibrating chamber. Instead of being rounded off at d,
the capillary column is continued a short distance to b. This causes
serious inconvenience in the transportation of the instrument, or in its
calibration, because a small particle of mercury readily detaches itself
from that in the chamber a, and once in b, with a cushion of air between
it and the remainder of the column, nothing but heat will dislodge it.

d

It does not require very great skill on the part of the glass-blower
to form the chamber a by means of the pressure of the mercury itself
against the walls of the capillary column. The glass-blower, as is per-
haps well known, can soften the finished tube at a, and while the glass
is in this condition the gentle application of the flame to the bulb will
force the mercury into the part at a, and the careful application of both
flames will then form a pear-shaped cavity of a form which will not
retain a particle of mercury, and is exceedingly convenient in use.

2. It is often desirable to hang these thermometers in a comparator
or other place, and it would facilitate this if a glass ring were attached
to the upper end, as is the case with ordinary chemical thermometers.
It is observed that the plane of this ring should be parallel to the
enameling in the tube.

3. It is often convenient to know the kind of glass used in the tube,
and the date of filling. Something more exact than the commercial
name of the glass would be needed in stating the former, but both of
these particulars might with propriety be engraved on the tube.
(Nature, June 2, 1881, xxtrv, p. 100.)

H. T. Brown describes a new self-recording thermometer for reading
the approximate temperature of any region, which is telegraphed to the
observer by a system of electric connections. (Nature, Xx, p. 464.)

The London Meteorological Society, in March, 1882, erected thermom-
eters at the summit and base of Boston church tower, 270 feet high.
392 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882.

The details of the apparatus are as follows: At the summit one of Dr.
Siemens’s electrical thermometers (kindly placed at the society’s dispo-
sal by Messrs. Siemens, Bros. & Co.), and an ordinary thermometer are
mounted in a small screen fixed to one of the pinnacles of the tower;
on the roof of the belfry, which is 170 feet above the ground, a Steven-
son screen has been mounted, containing maximum, minimum, dry, and
wet bulb thermometers. In the church-yard another Stevenson screen
has been fixed containing a similar set of thermometers, for comparison
with those above. All the thermometers will be read every morning at
nine o’clock. The electrical thermometer consists of a coil of wire wound
round a cylindrical piece of wood inclosed in a small brass tube; a third
wire is joined to one of the wires; and the three, insulated by gutta-per-
cha, form a light cable which is brought down to the base of the tower
and connected to a galvanometer, the terminals of which are in connec-
tion with the two poles of a six-cell Leclanche galvanic battery. The
instrument is read by depressing a key, which causes the needle of the
galvanometer to deflect; a pointer vernier (moving a contact roller upon
a wire in a circular groove) is then pushed to the right or to the left
upon a divided scale until the needle remains stationary on the zero
point, when the electrical resistance of the wire is measured upon the
scale. The number indicated by the vernier is then read off, and by re-
ferring to a table of equivalents the actual temperature in degrees of
Fahrenheit is readily ascertained. Simultaneous readings of the elec-
trical thermometer at the summit of the tower and of the dry-bulb ther-
mometer in the church-yard will be made frequently during the day by
the verger ofthe church. (Nature, Xxv, p. 470.)

Siemens describes the deep-sea electrical thermometer used by the
Coast Survey inrecent researches. This is, he states, a modification ofthe
apparatus suggested by himself in 1871 and used by Weinhold for high
temperatures in 1873. The observations made with it by the Coast Sur-
vey in the summer of 1881 have every indication of being more accu-
rate than those made with the protected Miller-Casella thermometers.
About five minutes are required to enable the resistance coil to assume
the temperature of the water surrounding it, and a second period of
five minutes is needed for adjusting the temperature of the comparison
coil on deck. (Similar apparatus can of course be used for measuring
underground temperatures, as has indeed been done by Becquerel at
Paris.) Siemens’s apparatus consists of a coil of silk-covered iron wire
.15"" diameter, and about 432 ohms resistance, attached to an insu-
lated cable by which it can be lowered to the required depth, and con-
nected so as to form one arm of Wheatstone’s bridge. The correspond-
ing arm of the bridge is formed by a second coil made precisely similar
to the former one and of equal resistance. This coil is immersed in a
copper vessel filled with water, and the temperature of the water is
adjusted by adding iced or hot water until the bridge is balanced. The
temperature of the water in the vessel is then read by a mercurial ther-
METEOROLOGY. 393

mometer, and this will also be the temperature of the resistance coil.
To avoid the error, which would be otherwise introduced by the leads
of the resistance coil, the cable was constructed of a double core of in-
sulated copper wire, protected by twisted galvanized steel wire. One
of the copper cores was connected to each arm of the bridge, and the
steel wire served as the return earth connection for both. Sir W. Thom-
son’s marine galvanometer with a mirror and scale was employed to
determine the balance bridge. (Nature, xxvi, p. 190.)

Commander Magraphi has invented an improved form of Negretti
and Zambra’s deep-sea thermometer, the so-called upset thermometer.
In this form the straight thermometer tube is retained in place of the
original siphon shape. The revolving fan of the depth meter ceases its
action the moment the thermometer is upset. The act of hauling up
is that which stops the fan and upsets the thermometer. Any number
of thermometers may be fastened upon the sounding line, and all make
their record at the same moment when their line is hauled up. (Nature,
XXXVI, p. £5.)

Professor Tait has made an exhaustive examination of the corrections
to the deep-sea protected thermometers furnished by Casella to the
Challenger exploring expedition. These were not wholly protected
according to the plan proposed by Sir William Thomson, and were
subject to larger errors than was necessary. Tait says corrections of
a half degree Fahrenheit per mile may seriously attect our theories of
oceanic water circulation, and demands minute investigation. The
Challenger thermometers were all of the Six pattern, and had both
maximum and minimum indices, set by means of magnets. Tait also in-
vestigated two wholly protected thermometers belonging to Sir C. Wy-
ville Thomson, but whose indices are not easily set for recording. His
testing apparatus consisted principally of a Frazer cannon, whose avail-
able interior was 44 inches diameter and 4 feet long, affording abundant
room to experiment on several thermometers at once.

The effect of pressure upon ordinary thermometer tubes is very appre-
ciable, notwithstanding the relative thickness of the glass sides. A very
interesting study of the distortion due to pressure is given byhim. The
compression is the same for every portion of the glass tube, but it is
accompanied by a shear that increases towards the inner surface of the
tube until the resulting extension disrupts that surface. When a tube
is exposed to dilation by force from within, the dilation of the walls
aids the shear. A thin tube is much better able to resist external than
internal pressure. (Nature, xxv, p. 90.)

All the thermometers which have large aneurisms have had special
calculations made for them, but in no case does the correction to be
applied to the minimum index exceed 0.14° F., or about one-seventh of
a degree per mile of depth. The appendices to Professor Tait’s report
give every detail of his formule and observations, and afford data for
394 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882.

application to many other problems in thermometry and the measure-
ment of pressures and of compressibilities. (Nature, xxv, pp. 90-127.)

Professor Tait found it necessary to determine the pressure within
his Frazer gun to within a certainty of about 1 per cent., correspond-
ing to the reading of his thermometers to within 0°.1 F. His pressure
gauge was founded on the principles adopted by Amagat in his measure-
ments of volumes and pressures of gases, and consisted essentially of a
small reservoir full of air, the compression of which is measured by the
amount of mereury forced into the vessel and retained there by a small
self-acting wedge or triangular pyramid of glass. In his later experi-
ments the amount of mercury forced into the gauge is shown by the
chemical action of the mercury upon a thin film of silver with which the
interior of the tube is coated, and the dissolving of which leaves a per-
fectly definite record of the distance to which the mercury has advanced.
Professor Tait says that he is at present engaged in measuring, by
means of a gauge of this kind, the compression of various gases up to
pressures of 10 tons to the square inch, or four times those used by Ama-
gat. Professor Tait finds that no less than five different causes con-
tribute to produce errors in the Challenger thermometers when tested
in this apparatus, namely: Ist. The direct effect of external pressure
upon the exposed part of the thermometer tubes; 2d. The heating of
the water by compression; 3d. Heating due to friction within the pump;
4th. Heating due to the compression of the massive vulcanite slabs em-
ployed in the mounting of the thermometers; 5th. The temperature
effect produced by pressure upon the protecting bulb surrounding the
true thermometer bulb. This latter is the most difficult of all; but of
these four causes which are active in the experimental apparatus, only
one is present in the actual use of the thermometer in deep-sea sound-
ing, for in the latter case the heating of the water and the vulcanite by
compression and pumping is absent. Therefore, as a final conclusion,
Tait asserts that if the Challenger thermometers had had no aneurisms
(or enlargements of the bores of the tubes), the amount of corrections
to be applied to the minimum index would have been somewhat less
than 0°.5 F. for every ton of pressure or for every mile of depth.
(Nature, XXv, pp. 90, &c.)

Michelson describes a very sensitive thermometer, in which the motion
of a mirror is effected by hardened caoutchouc. (Natwre, xxv, p. 615.)

As a practical application of the diurnal fluctuations of temperatures,
we note the invention of Biji, who has constructed an apparatus by
means of which these variations excite thermo-electric currents, which
in their turn are continually winding up the driving weight or spring
of a clock. (It may be remarked that this is a pretty clear case of per-
petual motion, depending for its efficiency principally on the diurnal
rotations of the earth.) (Natwre, XxVI, p. 384.)

tev. F. W. Stow describes anew metal screen to replace the Steven-
son wooden screen, from which it differs only in the following particulars:
METEOROLOGY. 395

1st. It is somewhat larger; 2d. It has a single set of double zine lou-
vres; 3d. It is partly closed at the bottom to cut off radiation. (Nature,
XXVI, p. 215.)

J. T. Brown has communicated to Nature an historical memoir on
methods of regulating temperature. Although the methods he enu-
merates are especially applicable to small masses in the physical lab-
oratories, yet some of them will find extensive application in testing
meteorological instruments. (Nature, XXvI, p. 116.)

Dr. F. D. Brown presents to the Physical Society some notes on ther-
mometry, apparently executed with the partial assistance of Professor
Guthrie. He describes a convenient method of calibrating; he finds
that a constant zero temperature is best obtained by a mixture of ice
and distilled water; the attention is called to the changing of zeros in
thermometers in heating. (Nature, XXVI, p. 71.)

G. M. Eldredge communicates to the Franklin Institute at Philadel-
phia a simple form of thermograph, in which a mercurial thermometer
having a tube of large bore, the upper end of which is open, records its
fluctuations by pricks upon a sheet of paper by means of an electro-
magnet. The entire thermograph differs only in minor details from
those which have been introduced by Hough and others. (Nature, xxv,
p. 163.)

Riviere has observed the cooling of a platinum wire heated by an
electric current in dry air within a glass cylinder whose surface is kept
at a uniform temperature. He finds the formula of Dulong and Petit
to give too rapid cooling, and that of Rosetti to agree somewhat better
with the results. (Nature, xxvi, p. 520.)

Prof. J. M. Crafts communicated a paper to the chemical section of the
British Association on the use of the hydrogen thermometer ; this is an
air thermometer of constant volume, in which the air is replaced by
hydrogen because of the more rapid flow of that gas through a eapil-
lary tube, and because the bulb of the thermometer could be greatly
reduced in volume. He redetermined the boiling point of mercury as
357° C., and investigated the boiling points of a large number of carbon
compounds. (Nature, XXvi, p. 466.)

J. K. Laughton, at the March meeting of the London Meteorological
Society, gave an exhaustive historical sketch of all kinds of anemome-
ters known to him. In conclusion, he stated that all forms of anemom-
eters give very unsatisfactory results, and what we need is not se
much an improved apparatus as a more thorough investigation of the
errors and method of action of the best forms of instruments now in
use. (Nature, xxv, p. 547.)

Rey. T. R. Robinson, of Armagh, Ireland, has published results of
further studies on his anemometer. Two similar instruments were
established side by side, in one of which the friction was more variable;
their revolutions were recorded chronographically. The equation of an
anemometer’s motion is V? + v?—2 V ve —(f + a)=0.
396 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882.

where V is the unknown velocity of the wind, a and « two constants
which are to be determined. Each observation gives two equations in
which there are four unknown quantities, for it is found that the value
of V changes from one instrument to another; this is partly owing to
eddies caused by the buildings, but also in great measure to the irregu-
larity of the winditself. Itis, however, also found that these wind-differ-
ences are as likely to have + as — signs, and therefore it may be ex-
pected that their sum will vanish in a large number of observations.
The ordinary methods of elimination fail here even to determine with
precision a single constant, and Dr. Robinson therefore proceeded by
approximations. He tried five different types of anemometers, and ob-
tained very unexpected results, for he found that the x# varied as some
inverse function of the diameter of the cups and the arms. He gives its
values :

r, Diameter of | Radius of net
No. cups. ae x Limit.
| Inches. Inches.
i "Originalingtmuments: o---scce. 4220 se-e] 12 23.17 = 1. 5880 2. 812
2s ROW Dabber seit ecb acaeceo een a etomaeioe | 9 24 1.5919 2. 831
3 Osamiaieicie saaaasoeatisinscimecte -cmntae | 9 12 1. 7463 3. 035
4 DO Feet eee eon ae ciccoe et eee 9 8 2. 1488 4. 051
5 | TO: OR Se aCe Ese DRE | 4 | 26.75 | 1. 8587 3.425
6 | DOM ss see eee ss eet eee see an 4 10. 67 2. 5798 4. 958
|

No. 6 is similar to No. 2, and it might be expected that their constants
would be equal. The cause of these differences is partly the eddies
caused by the cups which are more powerful when the arms are short, |
but still more the presence of high powers of the radii and diameter
occurring in the expressions of the mean pressures on the concave and
convex surfaces of the hemispheres. In the present state of hydro-
dynamics we cannot assign these expressions, but we know enough to
see that such powers may be present.

As each type of anemometer has its own constants, the author would
suggest to meteorologists the propriety of confining themselves to one
or two forms. For fixed instruments he considers the Kew as good as
any, and would wish to see it generally adopted. For portable ones
he has no experience except with Casella’s 3-inch cups, 6-inch arms,
which he found very convenient; he has not, however, determined its
constants. Some selection of the sort seems necessary if it is wished to
have a uniform system of wind-measures. (Nature, xxu, p. 404.)

An unpublished investigation of the accuracy of the Kew anemometers
was made by Messrs. S. Jeffoy and G. M. Whipple about 1873 at Kew and
the Crystal Palace. These observations have been discussed by Prof.
G. G. Stokes, who concludes as follows :

“1. That at least for high winds the method for obtaining a factor for
an anemometer which consists in whirling the instrument in the open
air is capable, with proper precautions, of yielding very good results.

‘‘2. That the factor varies materially with the pattern of the anemomi-

a
METEOROLOGY. 397

eter. Among those tried, the anemometers with the larger cups regis-
tered the most wind, or, in other words, required the lowest factors to
give a correct result.

“3, That with the large Kew pattern, which is the one adopted by the
Meteorological Office, the register gives about 20. per cent. too much,
requiring a factor of about 2.5 instead of 3. Even 2.5 is a little too
high, as friction would be introduced by the centrifugal force beyond
what occurs in the normal use of the instrument.

“4, That the factor is probably higher for moderate than for high
velocities ; but whether this:is solely due to friction the experiments
do not allow us to decide. - - ;

“The problem of the anemometer may be stated to be as follows: Let
the uniform wind with the velocity V act on a cup anemometer of given
pattern, causing the cups to revolve with a velocity v, referred to the
center of the cups, the motion of the cups being retarded by a force of
friction IF’; it is required to determine v as a function of V and F, F
having any value from O, corresponding to the ideal case of a friction-
less anemometer, to some limit I’,, which is just sufficient to keep the
cups from turning. I will refer to my appendix to the former of Dr.
Robinson’s papers (Phil. Trans., 1878, page 818), for the reasons for con-
cluding that F is equal to V’, multiplied by a function of V+v. Let
V + v6, I’ + v?=7, then if we regard € and y as rectangular co-ordi-
nates, we have to determine the form of the curve lying within the posi-
tive quadrant € O7, which is defined by these co-ordinates.

“We may regard the problem as included in the more general problem
of determining v as a function of V and F where V is positive, but F
may be of any magnitude and sign, and therefore v also. Negative
values of IF’ mean, of course, that the cups, instead of being retarded by
friction, are acted on by an impelling force, making them go faster than
in a frictionless anemometer, and values greater than F, imply a force
sufficient to send them around with the concave sides foremost.” (Na-
ture, July, 1881, XXIv, p. 253.)

C. E. Burton describes as follows an integrating anemometer that gives
the quadrantal components of the movement of the wind: ‘‘A roller
with a spherical edge is made to revolve with a velocity proportional to
that of the wind as recorded on an anemogram. This roller presses on
a plane table carried by two mutually perpendicular pairs of rails in
planes parallel to that of the table. The lowest of the pair of rails is
supported by a frame carried on the extremity of a vertical shaft. The
point of contact of the roller with the table lies in the prolongation of the
axis of the shaft. The table can rotate with the shaft, but not inde-
pendently. By asimple arrangement the shaft and, consequently, the
table are caused to take up positions corresponding from moment to
moment with the direction of the wind-record on the anemogram. A
style concentric with the shaft presses lightly against a compound sheet
of tracing and carbonized paper attached to the under side of the table.
398 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882,

Arrangements are also made for obtaining the sum of the movements
of the table toward each of the four cardinal points. If the roller be
moved with a velocity proportional to that of the wind, whether directly
by a cup anemometer or by a mechanical translation of the trace as
given by such an instrument, while the table simultaneously assumes
orientations corresponding to the direction of movement of the air, the
line drawn by the style will be a miniature copy of the path of an im-
aginary particle animated by the movements actually belonging to the
masses of air which successively affect the anemometer at the given
station during the selected period, rigorously in accordance with the
principle known as Lambert’s.” (Nature, October, 1881, xxrv, p. 583.)

H. S. Hele Shaw and Dr. Wilson have invented a new integrating
anemometer. An ordinary Robinson’s cup anemometer is used to drive
a train of wheels, and thus ultimately a serrated roller, which moves ¢
board in the direction of, and with a velocity proportional to, that of the
wind. On the board, which is horizontal and about two feet square, is
placed a sheet of paper, upon which the roller presses, and in turning
leaves the required trace, at the same time moving the paper underneath
it. The board is prevented from having a rotary motion by means of a
pair of frames, the epper moving by means of wheels on the lower, each
of which can move only in one direction, and these directions are per-
pendicular to each other. By a clock-work adjustment the time element
is able to be introduced, which, taken in connection with space, gives
velocity. (Nature, September, 1881, xxtrv, p. 467.)

Messrs. Burton and Curtis have published the result of a series of
observations on the distribution of pressure over the surface of a flat
plate exposed perpendicularly to the action of the wind. They obtain
this distribution by inserting on the rear of this plate a number of small
Pitot’s tubes, each of which gives the pressure for its own location.
They find, of course, the maximum pressure at the center diminishing
to scarcely one-half of that near the edge of the plate, the rates of dimi-
nution varying with the size and shape of the plate. (Nature, XXV, p.
427.)

_Ventosa describes an integrating anemometer invented by himself
very nearly identical with that proposed by Shaw and Wilson, and sim-
pler than that of Von Oettingen. (Nature, XXv, p. 79.)

Bourdon describes to the Paris Academy of Sciences a new form of
multiplying anemometer. His system consists of convergent divergent
tubes. In one such tube, made according to Venturi’s proportions, is
fixed concentrically a second, much smaller, and having its divergent
end exactly at the point where the truncated summits of the cones of
the larger tube unite. (For very small velocities a third tube may be
similarly fixed within the second.) A hollow sleeve is fixed round the
union of the truncated cones of the wide tubes; its interior communi-
cates with that of the latter and with a manometer, on which the press-
ure is read. If a manometer at the mouth of the large tube register 1
METEOROLOGY. 399

with a current, the other manometer will register, e. g.,6; the pressure
here is negative, and due to acceleration of the velocity of the current.
(Nature, XXV, p. 356.)

Prosser having exhibited a drawing of the anemometer of D’Ons en
Brays at the anemometer exhibition of the London Meteorological So-
ciety, under the impression that it was the earliest self-registering ane-
mometer, also gives in Nature, Vol. XXV, page 505, references to the
anemometer invented by Sir Christopher Wren, as described in Birch’s
History of the Royal Society, published in 1663. (If we combine his.
references with the description of an anemometer given in Sprat’s His-
tory of the Royal Society, London, 1667, we must be convinced that to
Sir Christopher Wren is due the invention of that form of anemometer
that has of late years frequently been styled Wild’s tablet anemometer 3.
indeed, to him seems to be due almost wholly the early stimulus given
to meteorological observations in England.) Prosser also refers to the
famous paper by Edgeworth on the pressure of the wind upon surfaces
of different forms, published at page 136, Phil. Trans. for 1783.

In order to avoid the assumptions that seem necessary in reducing
ordinary anemometric observations at sea, Abbe has proposed to estab-
lish at various parts of a vessel triple anemometers, recording respect-
ively the three vertical and horizontal rectangular components of the
compounded motionseof the wind and the instruments. As a first step
in this investigation, three anemometers were, in October, 1882, set up
at different points on the steamship Ohio, and observations kept up by
Mr. Frank Waldo between Baltimore and Hamburg.

Mr. W. Bailey exhibited to the Physical Society of London on the
10th of June a model of the new integrating anemometer. The disk is
revolved by means of Robinson’s cups. (Nature, Xxvi, p. 167.)

The brothers Brassart, of Rome, philosophical-instrument makers,
have devised a simple inexpensive anemoscope and anemometer, about
forty of which are now at work at various Italian stations. (Nature,
XXVI, p. 511.)

MM. Mignan and Ranard have constructed an integrating hygrom-
eter for precipitating the vapor of ‘the atmosphere, and analyzing
the products, if required. It is composed of an iron tube, filled with
liquor ammonie; by gently opening a tap the ammonia is absorbed
by water, and the hygrometer is covered with moisture, which is col-
lected in a cup arranged for the purpose. During the recent dry weather
the amount of precipitation was 5 grams of water in twenty minutes.
The weight of liquor ammonie was 34 grams. A peculiarity is that
a number of floating particles are precipitated with the humidity of the
air. It has been suggested by M. W. de Fonvielle that the hygrometer
might be used for analyzing the matter of clouds where the precipita-
tion of a few grams will be a question ofa very few minutes. (Nature,
XXV, p. 565.) ;

Crova describes a new condensation hygrometer. A small tube of
400 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882.

nickel-plated brass, carefully polished within, is closed at one end with -
ground glass, and at the other with a lens of long focus, through which
one looks along the tube towards a source of light. Through two
parallel tubulures the air to be examined is drawn into the tube, which
is cooled by means of sulphide of carbon traversed by an air current
in a metallic envelope round the tube. The changes of aspect in the
tube at the temperature of saturation enable one to estimate the dew-
point to one-tenth of a degree. (Nature, XXVI, p. 168.)

J. F. D. Donnelly calls attention to the recent perfections introduced
into the spectroscope by Mr. Hilger, who has managed to secure in-
creased dispersion and an excellent vision of the so-called rain band;
the spectroscope is also fitted with a telescope and with a second object
glass in front of the slit, for the purpose of bringing light from external
objects to a focus on it. (Nature, XxvI, p. 501.)

The Comité International, representing several countries of Europe,
the United States, and South America, has published an important
volume of memoirs by Drs. Broch, Pernet, René-Benoit, and Marek, on
subjects relating to the determination of units of measure and weight.

As the intensity of weight varies with the geographical height and
position above sea-level, the committee give in their first memoir tables
of the ratio of acceleration of weight at the level of the sea for different
latitudes to its acceleration at latitude 45° (Paris), to which latitude
they recommend that all weighings be referred.

In the second memoir, which relates to the tension of aqueous vapor,
certain corrections of hitherto accepted results are also indicated, par-
ticularly the errors of calculation in Regnault’s tables, as shown by
Moritz, and new tables are given for tensions at all temperatures on the
new scale of normal degrees from — 50° to + 101° C.

With reference to the fixed points of mercurial thermometers, the
Comité adopted the proposition that the point 0° of the centigrade
thermometer shouid be fixed at the pressure of 760™™, when determined
in 45° latitude and at the mean level of the sea. Also at the Congress
of Meteorologists at Rome, in 1879, there was adopted the proposition
of Dr. Pernet to fix the boiling point of water, 100° C., under the above
pressure, so as to render strictly comparable the temperatures observed
at different places. Degrees of temperature between these points are
called normal degrees.

Tables are also given by which may be calculated the weight of a
liter of pure air in different latitudes and at different altitudes. In
London (latitude = 51° 30’, altitude = 6.7™.) the weight is 1.2938 grams.
(Nature, August, 1881, xxIv, p. 384.)

Schloesing, as the result of experiments on the absorption of volatile
bodies with the aid of heat, is led to propose the application of his
method to the determination of the quantity of nitric acid in the atmos-
phere. (Nature, XXVI, p. 24.)

Mr.C. V. Boys read before the Physical Society, London, a paper on the

a
METEOROLOGY. 401

new meter for measuring electric currents. Hesays: «‘The force due to
an electric current is proportional to the square of the current; hence if
part of an electric circuit is capable of vibrating under an electro-mag-
netic force, the speed of vibrations will be proportional to the strength
of the current. If, then, such a contrivance takes the place of a balance
of a pendulum clock, the latter will measure electric currents instead of
time.” (Nature, XXV, p. 355.)

Mascart describes to the Paris Academy of Sciences his method of
determining the quantity of carbonic acid contained in the atmosphere.
He measures directly the diminution of pressure of a mass of air conse-
quent on the removal of the carbonic acid. Travelers will find it more
convenient to fill glass flasks with the air of their localities, and submit
the contents to analysis on their return home. (Nature, XXvI, p. 119.)

The application of mechanical methods to replace laborious mathe-
matical computations is sometimes so ingenious that there is every
reason to hope that mechanical methods may yet be devised for taking
into account the numerous disturbing elements that affect the motions of
the atmosphere, thus enabling us to quickly predict from the weather-
maps of to-day what the weather-map of to-morrow will be, instead of
going through the laborious use of tables and estimates that always
have the appearance of empiricisms. We are led to these remarks by
reading the résumé of a paper on integrating machines presented by
Mr. C. V. Boys to the London Physical Society. (Nature, xxv, p. 167.)

G. H. Darwin, in connection with his tidal investigations, has drawn
some conclusions with reference to Jupiter’s atmosphere, which latter he
believes to be the cause of the well-known belts. He finds that the rapid
rotation of the nucleus is not sufficient to explain the belt; but that
with it we must assume a proportionately large amount of gas in its at-
mosphere and a high temperature for the nucleus. (Nature, xxv, p. 360.)

Prof. J. J. Thomson has communicated to the Royal Society of Lon-
don a memoir on the vibration of a vortex ring and the action of two
vortex rings upon each other. This was an important paper on hydro-
dynamics, bearing as it does directly upon the question of the repre-
sentation of optical phenomena by the vortex-ring theory of the con-
stitution of matter. (Nature, xxv, p. 354.)

Chardonnet communicates his experimental study of actinic power
and the influence of specular polish. This polish increases the total
quantity of radiations reflected, but the relative intensities of different
portions of a spectrum depend on the material of the mirror. (Nature,
XXVI, p. 520.)

Violle describes a calorimeter denititing on cooling, and adapted
especially to very high temperatures. It consists of a small, narrow-
necked bottle of thin glass, with double envelope, and a vacuum pro-
duced in the interval before the closure. Through the neck are intro-
duced a thermometer and a stirrer. (Nature, XXVI, p. 168.)

Deprez described, at the La Rochelle meeting of the French Associa-

H. Mis. 26 26

402 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FGR 1882.

tion, anew apparatus for determining the mechanical equivalent for heat,
and hopes to obtain its real value to within .001. (Nature, xxv1, p. 470.)

The velocity of the motion of a ship through the water is ordinarily
given by the observations of some form of log. Froude and Burnet
invented an electric log, on which, however, Mr. Kelway has, made
some decided improvements. The complete instrument has many and
important applications, and its adoption is to be encouraged. (Nature,
XXV, p. 985.)

Professor Bramwell exhibited and explained the method of action of
a speed indicator in use on railroad trains. It consists of a drum, on
which are marked by two pencils the speed of the train and the condition
of the track.. On a calm day a railroad train weighing 125 tons and
moving at the rate of 45 miles an hour ran 5 miles and 5 yards after
the steam was cut off. (Nature, XxvI, p. 495.)

Professor Riicker presented the report of the committee on methods
of calibrating mercurial thermometers, in which, as the result of a long
investigation, it is concluded that labor is saved and equal accuracy
secured by the repetition of Gay-Lussac’s method of correction, instead
of the employment of more elaborate schemes. (Nature, XXVI, p. 458.)

G. J. Symons, after relating the history of progress in our knowledge
of the subject of diminution of rainfall with elevation, explained the
theory of Stanley Jevons—that it depended on eddies about the gauge
itself, and gave an account of the comparative researches of Mr. Roger
Field, who took the matter up a few years ago, and who has shown (1)
that the ratio of the rainfall on the tower to the rainfall on the ground
depends on the force and direction of the wind; (2) that when there is
no wind the rainfall on the tower is about the same as the rainfall on
the ground; (3) that when there is wind the amount of rain falling on
the tower will vary on different portions of the tower, the portion near-
est the point at which the wind strikes the tower receiving less rain
than falls on the ground, and the portion farthest from the point at
which the wind strikes the tower receiving the same or more rain than
falls on the ground; (4) that the excess of rain falling on the portion
of the tower farthest from where the wind strikes will, to a large ex-
tent, compensate the deficiency of rain on the portion nearest to where
the wind strikes, but whether to a sufficient extent to make the average
amount of rain falling on the tower equal to that falling on the ground
cannot be determined from these experiments. From these conclusions
it is clear that if the building be flat and large, the fall in the middle
of the roof ought to be nearly the same as on the ground, and in two
instances this is so—first at Messrs. Marshall’s factory at Leeds, and
secondly, at Mr. Dine’s, on a roof with 5,000 square feet of area. Thus
finally experimental evidence has corroborated the views of Mr. Stanley
Jevons, given above. (Nature, September, 1881, XXxIv, p. 491.)

One of the features of the International Electrical Exhibition and
Congress at Paris in September, 1881, was the meteorograph of M.
METEOROLOGY. 403

Van Rysselberghe, exhibited by the Royal Observatory of Brussels,
It gives its records not only at the place of observation but at one or
more distant stations, and gave every night at Paris a record of the
indications of the instruments at Brussels. Once every ten minutes it
comes into action, and registers one after the other the six following
elements: 1, temperature; 2, humidity; 3, water in rain-gauge; 4, di-
rection of wind; 5, barometer; 6, velocity of wind. It also makes a
mark about every half-second, due to the action of clock-work at the
sending station.

The registration is made by a diamond point on a thin plate of zine,
which is bent round the surface of a revolving cylinder, which is
covered with lampblack to make the marks more visible. This plate
serves afterward for printing any number of copies. There may be
several of these cylinders at as many different stations, all receiving
simultaneously the indications furnished by any one station. By one
line wire and one diamond point the curves for six instruments are
drawn at a station which may be 200 or 300 miles distant. The
value of such an instrument for furnishing the director of a central
station with accurate data on which to base his weather predictions
speaks for itself; 2nd as regards expense, all the expenses of photog-
raphy and of reducing and engraving photographic traces are saved.
It has been worked in Belgium over a wire of the length of 750 miles.
[We do not, however, understand that such instruments can possibly
replace the services of a corps of intelligent observers; certainly each
instrument would -require an attendant mechanician.] (Nature, Octo-
ber, 1881, XXIV, p. 588.)

M. Dufour describes an apparatus for indicating the variations of
chemical intensity of the sunlight. It has some likeness to Draper’s
tithonometer ; its principle is opposing the variable action of light on
a mixture of chlorine and hydrogen, with an electric current (of varia-
ble intensity and measurable each instant), which by its passage causes
decomposition of a quantity of hydrochloric acid equal to that pro-
duced by action of light on the mixture of chlorine and hydrogen. The
apparatus is like a Rumford differential thermometer; in one bulb is
some hydrochloric acid solution, with carbon electrodes; in the other
some sulphuricacid. The light acts on the former. One mode of meas-

urement is to note the time taken in displacement of the sulphuric acid
* column a certain distance along the connecting tube. Then bring back
the column to its original position by passing the current. (Nature, No-
vember 25, 1880, XXIII, p. 87.)

An instrument has been recently introduced by Messrs. Francis &
Co. (telegraph engineers, Hatton Garden, London) for the purpose of
receiving the ‘“‘ Greenwich time signal” at the various telegraph sta-
tions of offices and private firms who may be in communication with
the postal telegraph service. Hitherto the passage of the time-signal
current at 10 a.m. along the wires gave no indication of its pres-
404 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1832.

ence than a deflection of the needle of ordinary instruments and
a corresponding movement of the armature of the Morse ink-writer
and sounder, so that unless a sharp outlook be kept with the eye con-
stantly directed to the instrument the actual time of the signal may
be lost, perhaps also to be lost again on the following day through
similar accident. By the new instrument, however, the instant the
current is sent the needle on its dial is deflected, and simultaneously
a bell rings and continues to ring as long as the currentis passing; the
index needle, or, in other words, the needle of the galvanometer, which
is the principal feature of the invention, when deflected, presses against
a small spiral spring surrounding the stops or ivory pins on the dial
plate, and by this contact the galvanometer forms itself into a “ relay”
and brings a local battery in circuit with the bell, which is contained
in the same instrument, so that when the first part of the time signal is
sent the needle is deflected and at the same moment the bell rings;
thus attention to the time is at once arrested. It should be mentioned
that the resistance to the line, although low, is intended to be inserted
only during the transmission of the time signal, as by means of what
is generally termed a “switch” the instrument is put on and off the
circuit at will, and employed only during the time set apart for the
transmission of the Greenwich time signal. However feeble the cur-
rent may be, the galvanometer is so sensitive that a deflection of its
needle is absolutely certain, whilst the bell cannot fail to answer to the
power of its local battery. We are informed that not only is Messrs.
Francis & Co.’s new instrument capable of doing what we have already
stated, but it may be available for communication from different parts
of the building, an advantage which is certain to be recognized and
approved by many conducting large business establishments, where the
saving of time in conveying messages and giving orders is a matter
which is frequently of great importance. (Nature, February 10, 1881,
XXII, p. 347.)

R. A. Smith has devised a new actinic process by means of which he
hopes to investigate the absorbing power of the atmosphere and other
gases. Fromsome preliminary remarks we extract the following: The
fundamental idea is that when iodide of potassium in solution is treated
with nitric acid, so small in quantity as to cause no change of color in
dull diffused light, a change takes places when the same mixture is.
brought into clear light—iodine is set free and the solution becomes
yellow. The amount of iodine freed can be triturated with great ex-
actness by the use of hyposulphite ; this constitutes the whole process.
Some slight allowance for time and temperature may have to be made.
After giving a few samples of experiments with iodide of potassium
triturated with nitrogen, Dr. Smith says: “There seems, therefore, no
reason to doubt that this is a true photometric process, with special
capacities to be developed in time. I may add that I did obtain better
results at the window of my house than at the observatory at the same
METEOROLOGY. 405

time, the latter being nearer the center of the town. Thus the process
has done the duty it was intended for, although only once tried for this
special purpose. Iam looking to it as an agent specially for the ex-
amination of climate, but of course it may have many uses. This proc-
ess does not aim at delicacy, but at accumulation of effect. I have
not spoken of a standard; the results are only comparative, but the
process may be made to supply its own standard.”

Since writing the above it appears that by using sulphuric acid some
of the fears at first entertained may be avoided.

The strength of solutions and the kind of acid to be used may vary.
Similar results may vary by using bromide of potassium, but it is less
delicate. The surface exposed and other questions require attention.
(Nature, XXii, p. 71.)

Professor Fornioni has recently described to the Instituto Lombardo
a simple nefodoscope or instrument for measuring the direction of motion
of clouds (the instrument of the kind known as that of Braun being
thought expensive and inconvenient to use). It consists of a flat com-
pass case, with pivoted needle, above which is fixed horizontally a
plane mirror, occupying the whole of the case. On the surface of the
mirror are drawn diagonal lines corresponding to the rose of winds.

The amalgam is removed in a narrow circular are extending from north
to northwest, so that the end of the needle may be seen for the purpose
of orientation, and this arc is graduated. A rod with terminal eye freely
pivoted on the edge of the case completes the instrument.

When the direction of a given cloud is to be determined the nefodo-
scope is placed in a horizontal plane and properly oriented. The rod
is then moved to such a position that the observer’s eyes see three
points in a straight line, viz, the eye of the rod, the center of the mirror,
and the reflected image of a selected point of the cloud. The direction
of the displacement which the latter undergoes (after a time propor-
tional to the velocity of the cloud, and inversely as its distance) is the
required direction. (Nature, XXII, p. 132.)

Mascart communicates to the Paris Academy of Sciences a method
of measuring variations of gravity by utilizing the pressure of a given
mass of gas at constant temperature, and finds the method capable of
great precision. He uses a kind of siphon-barometer, with the short
branch closed and holding CQ:, introduced at a pressure sufficient to
balance a mercury column of 1" when the tube is vertical. The in-
strument is placed in a metallic cylinder filled with water, which is
agitated by an air-current, and contains a thermometer measuring 73>
degree. The divided scale is fixed on the tube; one sees it by reflec-
tion on a gilt surface, which sends the virtual image into the axis of the
tube, and the mercury is seen through the gold layer. Thus one can
see, with a single microseope, the mercury-level and the corresponding
division of the scale. (Nature, XxVI, p. 312.)
406 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR. 1882.

IV.—PHYSICAL QUESTIONS.

B. J. Hopkins suggests that specimens of the atmospheric dust that
are to be examined with reference to the question of the presence of
meteor dust should be collected regularly by apparatus attached to
properly constructed captive balloons, so as to avoid the presence of a
mass of dust of terrestrial origin. (Nature, xxv, p. 339.)

Professor Schuster, in the report of the committee on meteoric dust,
says that the occurrence of magnetic particles in dust, especially that
discovered by Tissandier in the snows of Mont Blane, is explicable only
on one of three hypotheses: First, the particles may be of volcanic origin;
second, they may come from the smoke of our own chimneys; third,
they may have a cosmic origin. The latter hypothesis is strongly fa-
vored by the consideration that the iron particles issuing from our chim-
neys contain neither nickel nor cobalt, while these metals do exist in
the microscopic magnetic particles of atmospheric dust. Schuster finds
that the sand near the great pyramids and the desert of Rajpootana,
and also from the Nile mud near the canal, all contain these rare metals.
As regards their origin, he concludes that at high elevations the pro-
portion of oxygen in the atmosphere is very small, and that inasmuch
as there is still a line in the ‘aurora spectrum that has not been recog-
nized as belonging to any known substance, he is convinced that it is
due to some unknown gas of very small density. It is the contact of
the meteors with this gas that fills the upper regions with meteoric dust
which first makes it possible for the aurora to exist at those elevations,
and afterwards, settling towards the earth, is brought down by the
snow and rain to the surface. (Nature, XXVI, p. 488.)

Prof. F. A. Abel, in a lecture before the Royal Institution on atmos-
pheric dust, shows the various dangers to which the human race are
thereby subjected. Passing by the microscopic germs of disease float-
ing in the air, he confined his attention to the larger dust particles, for
instance, those of coal dust in mines, the sulphur dust in powder mills,
finely divided cotton fibers in cotton mills, and the dust in flour and
rice mills; all these and many other forms of dust, when sufficiently
abundant in the air, make a dangerously explosive mixture, and there
can be no doubt many explosions in coal mines have been due to dust-
laden air rather than fire-damp. Thelecturer paid special attention
to the suggestion of methods for the avoidance of danger from these
sources. (Nature, XXVI, p. 20.)

Miintz and Aubin have observed the relative proportion of carbonic
acid in the upper and lower regions of the atmosphere they observed
on the Pic du Midi and the plain around—the difference seems inap-
preciable. (Comptes Rendus, Paris, November 14, 1881.)

Dumas communicates to the Paris Academy some observations on
the amount of carbonic acid in the atmosphere. After noticing the
defects of several methods of measurement, he commends the exactness
METEOROLOGY. A407

of M. Rerset’s and accepts his results, that about 3 volumes in 10,000 rep-
resent the general ratio of CO, in air. The variations through great
movements of the atmosphere now require study, by observers placed
at many different and distant stations, and the transit expeditions
should keep this in view. MM. Miintz and Aubin’s methods are most
suitable for this. (Natwre, xxv, p. 476.)

Berthelot has communicated to the Paris Academy of Sciences an
important memoir on the propagation of the waves of explosion as dis-
tinguished from waves of sound. An explosion starting in a mixture
of oxygen and hydrogen propagates itself at arate of 28.14™ per second,
but the velocity of sound is 514; he therefore concludes that the explosion
wave is not an acoustic wave, but a wave of chemical action, and he
attempts to explain its nature on principles suggested by the kinetic
theory of gases. (Nature, xxv, p. 44.)

Sir William Thomson read before the Royal Society of Edinburgh a
paper on the thermo-dynamie acceleration of the earth’s rotation. He
shows that there must be tides in the atmosphere, and that the line of
crests, namely, the maximum of atmospheric pressure, so lies with respect
to the line joining the earth’s center and the sun’s that the couple due to
the sun’s attraction upon the ellipsoidal mass of air always acts in the
direction of the earth’s rotation, and therefore accelerates it slightly.
(Nature, XXv, p. 380.)

Stanley has published a volume on experimental researches into the
properties and motion of fluids. The author, in writing section second,
seems not to have taken advantage of the works of the best modern
students on meteorology and the motions of the atmosphere.

Maj. John Herschel has completed the pendulum experiments recom-
mended by the Royal Society, and, having swung one of the original
Kater pendulums in India and Europe, and finally in New York and
Washington, has deposited it with the United States Coast and Geodetic
Survey. The latter has, we understand, immediately started it again
on its travels in connection with its own most elaborate pendulum work
under the direction of Prof. C. 8. Peirce.

Joly, at Munich, has attempted to determine the force of gravitation
by means of a delicate balance, from each of whose scale-pans was hung
by a wire, at a depth of about 60 feet, another pair of pans. A heavy lead
ball is brought under one of the lower scale-pans, while a small body
can be placed in either an upper or lower pan at will, and thus have its
weight determined under the influence of the lead ball and again when
beyond its influence. The result of his experiments has given him for
the mean density of the earth, 5.692 plus or minus 0.068, agreeing closely
with the results of the torsion balance. (Nature, xxv, p. 137.)

Tyndall has in a series of brilliant experiments introduced Bell’s
radiophone as a means of easily deciding the question as to the absorp-
tion of radiant heat in its passage through gases and vapors. He finds
every observation to completely justify the position he has so long main-
408 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882.

tained, enforcing the diathermancy of gases and the opaqueness of
vapors. He also further claims that his views are independently con-
firmed by observations of Professor Langley on Mount Whitney. Tyn-
dall states that in November, 1880, he resumed investigations in ref-
erence to radiant heat, and it is to be hoped that his recent work will
ere long be published in full. (Nature, xxv, p. 233.)

Captain Abney in a lecture on solar physics has given a general view
of the theory in practice of the photography of the ultra-violet and
especially the ultra-red portion of the spectrum. It is to be hoped
that the study of this subject and the application of Rowland’s perfect
cylindrical gratings will enable us to fix for future study those bands
due to the absorption of solar radiation by our atmosphere that have
been so laboriously studied by Langley with the help of his bolometer.
(Nature, XXv, p. 162.)

In Nature, XXvu, p. 15, will be found all necessary details as to his
method of photographing the infra-red portion of the spectrum. He
states that in photographs taken at an elevation of 1,000 feet the general
absorption due to water alinost vanishes, but the presence of other ab-
sorbents, especially alcohol vapor, still higher up, becomes demonstrable.
Fuller details of Professor Langley’s results were communicated by
him in immediate connection with the address of Captain Abney to the
British Association at Southampton, and are published in Nature,
XXVI, p. 526.

Langley also communicated his results to the Paris Academy of Sci-
ences, and he estimates that the solar heat on a square centimeter at the
outer surface of the atmosphere would raise one gram of water in one
minute about 3° C. Of all this solar energy one-fourth is to be found
in the visible spectrum and ultra-violet portion; the other three-quar-
ters exist in the infra-red. In general, absorption increases as the wave
length diminishes. (Nature, XXVI, p. 520.)

Professor Langley communicates to Nature, and also to the Paris
Academy, a short account of some results derived from the spectro-
scopic and bolometric observations on Mount Whitney, in Southern
California, at elevations from 4,000 to 15,000 feet. The expedition was
largely at the expense of the Signal Service and a private citizen of
Pittsburgh. His observations were directed first to the amount of heat
that the sun sends to the earth, and he concludes that the true solar
constant is at least one-half greater than that given by Pouillet, and
again that the so-called temperature of space must be lower than that
assigned by Pouillet, and finally the bolometer observations show a dif-
ferent distribution of solar energy at the upper station from that of the
lower, so that without our atmosphere the sun will appear with astrong
biuish tint. [The full report of Professor Langley’s observations will
soon be published by the Army Signal Office.] (Nature, XXVI, 316.)

Desains communicates to the Paris Academy of Sciences a memoir
on the distribution of heat in the dark regions of solar spectra with glass
METEOROLOGY. 409

prisms. The spectrum is prolonged much further on the side of the
rays of great wave length. Atthe same meeting Egoroff communicated
his researches on the absorption spectrum of the terrestrial atmos
phere; he observed the electric and other lights as seen at the Paris
Observatory. (Nature, xxvI, p. 520.)

Egoroff, as the result of some observations made at the Paris Observ-
atory on the absorption spectrum of our atmosphere, finds that dry air
and aqueous vapor are the only elements producing sensible effects.
His experiments included observations of the absorption of an electric
light by the layer of air between the observatory and Mount Valerian.
(Comptes Rendus, Paris, November 14, 1831.)

C.-P. Smyth, in an appeal to physicists not to neglect spectroscopic
observations of his so-called. rain-band, says: ‘‘While in Scotland a
rain-band of intensity marked 2 usually produces a little rain and 3
produces much, yet in Lisbon during the same months the so-called
rain-band marked 4 and yet no rainfall, but with 5 or 6, the tempera-
ture remaining the same, rain will come down even in that dry coun-
try. - - - Mr. T. G. Rylands has accumulated much experience as
to the advantage of supplementing spectroscopic observations with
a polariscope. - - - I rather prefer the spectroscope alone, but
greatly increased in size and power.” Professor Smyth recommends
as that the daily notation of the strength of the rain-band be made at
afixed hour, say 9 a. m., and be recorded, not in absolute measures but
differentially in terms of some other band which is not connected with
aqueous vapor; for such comparison he recommends a low sun-band
which is on the yellow side of the D line. (Nature, xxv, p. 553.)

Ralph Abercromby says there is one case in which the rain-band may
give valuable information, namely, when we have a vapor-laden over-
current with a dry surface wind. This often occurs in winter, and with
a warm southwest current over an area of frost and east wind. In prac-
tice this almost invariably makes itself visible by the long converging
line of cirrus which so often precedes a rain or thaw; but, still, cases may
occur where no cirrus is formed or where itis otherwise visible or where
it is otherwise invisible. Abercromby further says: “There are strong
grounds for believing that an air spectrum may vary not only with
the amount of pure vapor quantity, but it seems probable that its em-
ployment may be still further extended. There are strong grounds
for believing that an air spectrum may vary, not only with the amount
of pure vapor, but also with the size, aggregation, and physical condi-
tion of the condensed vapor suspended in it. For instance, take the
so-called rain lines. These may appear either alone or with a rain-
band of any intensity; so that if the band is due to pure vapor only,
the lines must depend on some other condition. Again, in sunset tints
we have a natural spectroscope whose colors certainly are the product
of both the quantity and quality of the total moisture suspended in the
air. I have made a large number of observations on the lurid, coppery,
410 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 18832.

yellow, green, and red skies, which form such a large portion of all
weather lore, but without decisive results, for sunset spectra are too
complicated and too fleeting to be unraveled by a small instrument.
They certainly seem to differ, but their spectra are not so marked as
their appearance to the naked eye. But even supposing that this idea
is completely verified, and that the spectroscope can be used as a new
weapon of research to discover the still unknown nature of clouds, and
that we should be able to say that such and such an absorption spectrum
belongs to such and such a kind of sky, there are no grounds for believ-
ing that we can ever regard these spectra otherwise than as a new set
of sky prognostics, or that as such they will be of more use in forecast-
ing than those already known. What the use of any prognostics is in
forecasting, and how they are related to synoptic charts, and how iso-
baric lines map out the shape of rain areas, are other sides of the great
problem of weather forecasting which cannot be discussed here.” (Na-
ture, XXV, p. 573.)

Messrs. Lecher and Pernter have studied the absorption of radiant heat
in gases and vapors. They consider ‘‘ vapor-hesion” to have been an
important source of error in Tyndall’s experiments. In their own
method the thermopile and the heat source were brought into the same
vessel. Air-currents were avoided by causing the surface of radiation
to be heated in each case suddenly from without, by means of a steam
jet, to 100° C. Among other results the absorption of water vapor is
found, in opposition to Tyndall, immeasurably small. Violle found on
Mont Blane that a meter of the air absorbed only 0.007 per cent. of the
whole radiation ; according to this a layer of 300" length would be
necessary to produce, with water vapor saturated at 12°, that absorp-
tion which Tyndall obtains in 1.22™. This and the author’s own experi-
mental results are considered to prove beyond dispute the very small
absorption of aqueous vapor. The results for gases agree pretty well
with Tyndall’s. No simple connection between absorption and pressure
of the substance was discoverable. The absorption, even for radiation
of a heat source of 100° C., is selective. The authors found the absorp-
tion of certain substances of the fat series examined to inerease rapidly
with increasing proportion of carbon. It seems to be otherwise, how-
ever, with bodies from other groups; thus, e. g., benzole, notwithstanding
its six carbon-atoms, has a fairly small absorptive power. (Nature,
XXU, p. 543.)

Dr. Lecher has made new observations, especially as to absorption of
solar radiation by the carbonic acid in the atmosphere. Experiments
with a gas lamp and a glass cylinder first showed that carbonic acid in
a length of 214™™ gave passage to 94.8 per cent. of the radiation; 536™™,
93.8 per cent; 917™, 89.0 per cent. At Greifenstein, outside of Vienna
(chosen for pure air), the sun’s rays were also proved to undergo con-
siderable weakening in passages through carbonic-acid gas. <A layer
of this gas 1 meter thick absorbed 13 per cent. when the sun had an
METEOROLOGY. 411

altitude of 59°; the number, however, diminished in proportion as the
sun got lower. This shows that absorption of solar radiation by car-
bonic acid is selective, and that the absorbable wave lengths become more
rare the greater the atmospheric layer the rays have already traversed.
The author calculates from his experiments the proportion of carbonic
acid in the atmosphere, finding it 3.27 in 10,000 parts by volume, a
number agreeing so well with results of chemical analysis as to in-
dicate that this is a good way of determining the carbonic acid in the
atmosphere and its variations, applicable, too, at heights when direct
measurements are impossible. (Nature, December 30, 1880, xxIII, p.
209.)

Prof. William Crookes has published some observations on radiation of
heat from thermometers inclosed in air at very low pressure. His results
have an important bearing on radiation, conduction, and convection of
heat. An accurate thermometer, with pretty open scale, was inclosed
in a 14-inch glass globe, the bulb of the thermometer being in the center
and the stem being inclosed in the tube leading from the glass globe to
the air-pump. There are two ways in which heat can get from the glass
globe to the thermometer: (1) By radiation across the intervening space;
(2) By communicating an increase of motion to the molecules of the gas,
which carry it to the thermometer. It is quite conceivable that a con-
siderable part, especially in the case of heat of low refrangibility, may be
transferred by “carriage,” (as I will call it to distinguish it from con-
vection, which is different,) and yet that we would not perceive much
diminution of transference, and consequently much diminution of rate
of rise with increased exhaustion, so long as we work with ordinary
exhaustions up to 1 millimeter. For if, on the one hand, there are
fewer molecules impinging on the warm body (which is adverse to the
carriage of heat), yet on the other the mean length of path between
collisions is increased, so that the augmented motion is carried further.
The number of steps by which the temperature passes from the warm-
er to the cooler body is diminished, and accordingly the value of each
step is increased. Hence the increase in the difference of velocity
before and after impact may make up for the diminution in the number
of molecules impinging. Itis therefore conceivable that it may not be
till such high exhaustions are reached that the mean length of path
between collisions becomes comparable with the diameter of the enclos-
ure that further exhaustion produces a notable fall in the rate at which
heat is conveyed from the case to the thermometer.

The above experiments show that there is such notable fall; a reduc-
tion of pressure from 5™ to 2™, produces twice as much fall in the rate
as is obtained by the whole exhaustion from 760 millions to 1 million.
We may legitimately infer that each additional diminution of a millionth
would produce a still greater retardation of cooling, so that in such
vacua as exist in planetary space the loss of heat, which in that case
412 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882.

would take place only by radiation, would be exceedingly slow. (Nature,
January, 1881, xxIII, pp. 235 and 237.)

C. I. MeNally, in reference to the heat indicated by thermometers
wrapped in hygroscopic coverings and breathed upon by the warm moist
breath, writes: ‘“‘That the effects of friction and compression of air are so
slight that they may be disregarded, has been proved, and the rise has
heen clearly traced to absorption of aqueous vapor. It has yet to be
determined how much of this heat may be accounted for by the reduc-
tion of aqueous vapor to the fluid state and how much by capillary
action and absorption of water, with or without chemical union, and its
reduction to the solid state, a]l of which may be included in hygroscopic
action. This determination would involve some intricate investigations
which some scientific specialist may find leisure to undertake. That
more than simple vapor condensation is concerned in the production of
hygroscopic heat is shown by the rise of temperature on adding water
to a non-saturated hygroscopic substance.” (Nature, January 13, 1881,
XXIII, p. 244.)

Amagat having repeated his experiments on the elasticity of rarefied
gases, asserts that they still follow the law of Mariotte even down to the
lowest attainable pressure. (The .01 of an inch was his lowest.) (Na-
ture, XXVI, p. 384.)

Maxwell’s theory of the viscosity of gases has been elaborately in-
vestigated by W. Crookes, who by the perfection of his vacua has been
able to fully corroborate Maxwell’s views, according to whom the vis-
cosity should be independent of the temperature. (Nature, XXIII, p. 420.)

Stevenson states that as a first result of his observations on the law
of wind velocities at different heights he finds that the curves traced
out by the velocities in relation to the heights were most nearly repre-
sented by the formula V =v V(H + 72) + (h+ 72), where H and h
represent respectively the heights in feet of the high and low level
stations above the ground, and V and v the respective velocities at those
levels.

He has since then been making observations with the view of ascer-
taining the relative resistance of land and water to the aerial cur-
rents. These observations are very far from being complete, but the
following results in the mean time may be interesting:

Sand. Water.
6-inch waves, 12.8: 13. 8 miles per hour =1: 1.08
6-inch waves, 13.65 : 14.375 miles per hour = 1: 1.06
3-inch waves, 7.96: 9. 19 miles per hour =1: 1.155
Grass. Water.
9-inch waves, 8.4: 10. 7 miles per hour =1: 1. 274
3-inch waves, 10.13: 14.75 miles per hour = 1: 1.456
The velocities given are the means of observations taken every five
minutes for about an hour.
METEOROLOGY. 413.

From this it will be seen that the resistance is least for water, some-
what greater for smooth sand, and greater still for grass. Further ob-
servations are not only required on this subject, but also on the velocity
of the wicd over the water in relation to the height of the waves. (Na-
ture, XXV, p. 607.)

Some experiments have lately been made by the Rey. Dr. Haughton
and Prof. Emerson Reynolds to evaluate the coefficient of friction (7. e.,
the drag”) of air upon air and of water upon water. In these ex-
periments a spherical ball of unpolished granite of 22 kilograms weight
and 25 centimeters in diameter was suspended freely by a pianoforte
wire, and was set rotating in the air or in water, the period of the vi-
brations and the decrement of their amplitudes being observed by
means of indices attached to the brass collar by which the ball was
suspended. A discussion of the equations of motion led to a simple
working equation for the reduction of results. The mean coefficient of
friction found for air upon air was f= g5}57, though this value appar-
ently differed slightly according to barometric and thermometric con-
ditions. For the “drag” of water upon water the value found was.

= 3%; These experiments involved friction at low velocities only,
for which it could be assumed that the friction was proportional to the
velocity. The authors of this research point out that these results
tend to negative the theory of Dr. Carpenter that the phenomena of
ocean circulation are due to the greater height of the water at the
equator as compared with that at the poles. (Nature, xx, p. 207.)

P. Volkmann has made a new determination of the specific gravity of
pure mercury, in which he makes allowance for a new source of error
depending on the change of volume of the vessel due to the internal
pressure of the heavy liquid. Assuming the density of water at 0°
centigrade to be 0.999881, he finds the density of mercury at 0° to be
13.5953 + 0.0001, which is a little less than the lowest of the values
given by Regnault, whose average result, 13.596, is the value ordinarily
adopted.

V.—a SOLAR RADIATION; 0 TERRESTRIAL TEMPERATURE.

C: W. Siemens has advanced a thoroughly original theory of the con-
servation of solar energy in a paper read at the Royal Society, March
2, 1882. He supposes stellar space to be filled with highly rarefied gas-
eous bodies besides solid material in the form of dust. Each planetary
body and the sun attracts to itself an atmosphere, and the solar system
as a whole contains an interplanetary atmosphere, denser than the
extremely rarefied stellar space. He considers that aqueous vapor and
carbon compounds are present in stellar or interplanetary space ; that
these gaseous compounds are capable of being dissociated by radiant
solar energy while in a state of extreme attenuation; again, that these
dissociated vapors are capable of being compressed into the solar pho-
tosphere by a process of interchange with an equal amount of reasso-
414 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR. 1882.

ciated vapors, this interchange being effected by the centrifugal action
of the sun itself. (Nature, xxv, p. 441.)

As this theory has given rise to considerable discussion during the
past year, we give the following references: See (1) criticisms, E. D.
Archibald (Nature, Xxv, p. 524), and Siemens’s reply to him on the same
page; (2) criticisms of Charles Norris and T. Sterry Hunt, and Sic-
mens’s reply. (Nature, XXv, pp. 601-603.)

Fitzgerald raises several pertinent objections to Dr. Siemens’s solar
hypothesis, to which a full reply is given by the author. (Nature, XxvV1,
p. 80.)

Crova communicates to the Paris Academy of Sciences the results of
a@ year’s experiment by a Government commission at Montpellier with a
solar mirror and boiler. (Similar experiments have been made at Con-
stantine.) The maxima of yield generally correspond to the minima of
intensity of radiations. The absolute quantity of heat utilized depends
essentially on the temperature of the air. In the climate of England it
is not possible to reach half the utilization attainable in the most favor-
able circumstances, and the sun does not shine continuously enough to
favor the practical use of the apparatus. (Nature, xxv, p. 596.)

Next in order after the attempts to utilize the direct heat of the sun
must be mentioned the idea suggested by Mr. Milne, of Tokio, as to the
possibility of utilizing the internal heat of the earth. He states that
‘‘there is an unlimited supply of energy in the interior of the earth, and
which crops out upon the surface in the form of hot springs, volcanoes,
&c. The heat of these springs could easily be converted into an elec-
tric current.” (Nature, XXVI, p. 211.)

We see no reason to doubt that ere long it will be found that the
cheapest method of warming some cities will be by means of hot water
and steam pipes, communicating with a deep artesian well.

Professor Everett has presented an elaborate report on behalf of the
underground temperature committee of the British Association, contain-
ing a summary of all their results and preceding fifteen reports. This
js published apparently in full in Nature, xxv1, pp. 564-589.

Passing by the innumerable details, we summarize the following gen-
eral conclusion: The mean increase of temperature per foot, as deduced
from all reliable observations throughout the whole world, is found to
be 0.01563, or about 3; of a degree Fahrenheit. Thisis a slower rate than
has been generally assumed. From this he deduces 0.000285 as the rate
in degrees centigrade per centimeter of depth. If this be multiplied
by the conductivity of the earth’s crust, for which 0.0058 is adopted,
based on Herschel’s and Thomson’s results, we obtain H. 330+10-" as
flow of heat across a square centimeter. If now this be multiplied by
the number of seconds in the year, we obtain 41.4 as our estimate of the
average number of gram-degrees of heat that escape annually through
each square centimeter of the earth’s substance. (Nature, Xxvl, p. 591.)

Pouchet communicates to the Paris Academy of Sciences some obser-
METEOROLOGY. 415

vations on the temperature of the sea water observed on the coast of
Lapland. (Comptes Rendus, Paris, January 2, 1882.)
Hennessy reviews the work of Ferrel and Hann on the temperature
-of the northern and southern hemispheres, and finds that they have re-
moved a @ifficulty in his own theory of climates. (Nature, XXVI, p.520.)

Professor Frankland seems to have for many years past been making
climatic observations on a uniform system in various parts of Europe.
His standard of sun’s temperature is that given by a black-bulb ther-
mometer in vacuo, laid directly upon a sheet of white paper in full sun-
shine. His standard of shade temperature is that given by an ordinary
thermometer with a clear glass bulb, laid directly upon the same sheet
of white paper, and apparently also in the full sunshine, but shaded
therefrom by an arch of the same white paper, which latter, however,
does not prevent a free circulation of air. He finds that of all materials
with which he has experimented white paper reflects solar heat most
perfectly, and is therefore the most effective shading material. It will
be seen, therefore, that his temperatures are relative only, but that they
are comparable with each other, in so far as he has used the same appa-
ratus. He gives a number of observations illustrating the effect on his
apparatus of the nature of the surface of the ground and the diurnal
changes in sun altitude in various parts of Europe. (Nature, Xxvt,
p- 380.)

C. W. Brooks gives an abstract of a paper which he read on March
21, 1882, giving the temperatures of the ground in the Comstock lode at
Virginia City, Nev., taken by Charles Foreman, superintendent. Holes
for the thermometers were drilled not less that 3 feet into the rock; the
thermometers are inserted and the holes filled with clay. (Nature, xX,
p. 592.) |

Dines summarizes his observations during the last six years on the
temperatures observed near the ground and on the tower of his house.
The maxima are always greater and the minima lower on the ground
than on the tower. (Nature, xxv, p. 619.)

In studying the conditions of temperature of the Russian Empire
some time ago, M. Wild found that the irregular distribution of tem-
perature revealed by the isotherms might be elucidated by ‘‘isanomals”
(or lines of equal temperature anomalies). Among the causes of the
isanomals special regard must be had to the wind, which again imme-
diately depends on the distribution of air-pressure, as shown by the
isobars. A comparison of the lines of equal pressure with the lines of
temperature anomalies thus suggested led M. Wild to recognize an in-
timate relation between the two systems., Reasoning from the results
arrived at, he has attempted, with some success, to rectify the isobars
over certain regions where from want of observations their course was
somewhat uncertain, and, further, has even suggested the probable
existence of a pressure maximum in Northern Siberia, of which region,
however, little if anything is positively known, owing to the want of
barometric observations. (Nature, July, 1881, xxiv, p. 266.)
416 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882.
VI.—a EVAPORATION ; ) CONDENSATION ; ¢ RAINFALL.

Professor Stokes has so modified the Campbell sunshine-recorder as to
render its use convenient for any ordinary meteorological observer, and
thirty stations in Great Britain have been equipped with it by the
council of the London Meteorological Office. (Nature, Xx111, p. 113.)

G. M. Whipple has modified Campbell’s sunshine-recorder by devis-
ing a new form of card-supporter. It consists of a light frame, capable
of holding a slip of cardboard, to be burned by the sun, in any position.
It is arranged so as to receive ordinary parallel strips of card at all
times of the year, and to allow of the instrument being employed on
any part of the earth’s surface without detriment to its efficiency. The
card-holders themselves are movable, so as to permit of the cards being
changed indoors, or dried, if wet, before removal, in order to avoid mu-
tilating the record of observation. The instrument also has an appli-
ance for placing the card correctly in position to receive the sun’s image.
(Nature, September, 1881, Xxtv, p. 467.)

An evaporimeter with constant level has been recently described by
Professor Fornioni. It consists of an oblong wooden case, with a brass
spiral descending into it from a micrometric screw. The spiral carries
at its lower end a small glass vessel, which acts as a feeder. A glass
siphon extends outwards, horizontal from the feeder, and has at its
outer end a small cup, in which evaporation takes place. As the water
evaporates in the cup the feeder is lightened, and rises by action of the
spiral, thus keeping the level constant. The graduation of the instru-
ment is expressed in millimeters of the height of water in the evaporat-
ing vessel. (Nature, August 18, 1881, xxIv, p. 286.)

Mr. John Aitken has read a paper on Dust, Fog, and Mist, that opens
up new lines of inquiry, and, indeed, a new future to what has hitherto
been one of the most difficult branches of meteorology. Mr. Aitken
maintains that dust particles are essential to the formation of rain. He
has continued the prosecution of the inquiry, and finds that at the
low temperature of 14°F., equally as at higher temperatures, there
is no cloudy condensation when there is no dust. Cloudy condensation
takes place on the dust nuclei, the amount of cloudiness being of course
relatively small atsuch low temperatures on account of the small amount
of vapor present. Taken along with Professor Leister’s experiments, in
which it was shown that a single drop of rain showed organisms in sen-
sitive solutions which would otherwise have remained for months unal-
tered, it shows that germ-producing matter, or germs themselves, form
at least a part of the cloud and fog producing dust. Hence a cotton-
wool respirator may form a protection against disease. (Nature, XXtIt,,
p. 204.)

In a subsequent communication Aitken finds that Coulier and Mas-
cart had in 1875 arrived at similar results. [And it may be added that
since 1871 the present writer has taught his own conclusions, based on
general meteorological evidence as well as on chemical and physical
METEOROLOGY. ANG

reasoning, that the carbon dust from prairie and forest fires and the smoke
of coal fires in cities havea strong affinity for aqueous vapor, which is at-
tracted and held ina little atmosphere around each carbon particle, just
as hydrogen is attracted to spongy platinum. These little balloons of
vapor with dust centers, as they rise in the air, cool, both by radiation
and expansion, more rapidly than the surrounding air, and soon pass
from dry yellow haze (asin Indian-summer weather) into fog and rain.
Other kinds of dust particles probably produce the same effect, butin a
different manner, 7. e., they simply cool more rapidly by radiation and
condense upon themselves as dew some of the neighboring aqueous vapor ;
then becoming heavier, they grow by accretion of other dew-laden parti-
cles as they descend to the earth.—C. A.]

Mr. Newth showed to the London Physical Society some experiments
illustrative of the fact announced by Mr. Mascart in 1875 that solid
particles in the air are necessary to the formation of fogs; and, sec-
ondly, that certain gases, such as sulphurous-acid gas, also cause fogs
in the same way by permitting the moisture to condense upon these par-
ticles. The experiments consisted in passing an electric-light beam
through large bulbs of glass containing air and a small quantity of
water. When the air in the bulbs was washed with the water, and
thus freed from motes, the fog produced in the bulb by slightly exhaust-
ing it with an air-pump was much less than when the air of the room,
or smoke, or sulphurous-acid gas, was admitted into the bulb. The
dust on a platinum wire, rendered incandescent within the globe by an
electric current, also caused a sensible fog. It follows that with gas
fires instead of coal there would still be fogs, though not so black ones.
(Nature, XXv, p. 475.)

Prof. O. Reynolds has been deeply engaged in the study of the phe-
- nomena of the surface tension of water; these bear upon the subject of
rain-drops, the union of floating particles of fog into larger drops, and
the floating of rain-drops on the clean water of ponds. (Nature, xxv,
p. 23.)

Prof. J. Elliot, of India, has investigated the rain-fall of Cherrapunji,
in the southwest of Assam, and on a small plateau forming the summit
of one of the spurs of the Khasia Hills. The rain-fall recorded at this
station averages 493 inches per annum, or while the normal wind-fall in
the neighboring plains is about 100 inches, he finds that this remark-
able rainfall, by far the largest known anywhere on the earth, is sim-
ply and solely owing to the presence of a vast mechanical obstruction, -
namely, the precipitous hill on which the station stands, rising sud-
denly 4,600 feet, and whose resistance converts the horizontal motion
of the air into a vertical motion; the ascending air cools rapidly by rea-
son of its expansion and condenses its moisture into deluges of rain.
(Nature, XXv, p. 259.)

Mr. Maxwell Hall has published in the Government Hand-Book to
Jamaica the best résumé as yet given of the climate and meteorology

H. Mis. 26——27
418 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882.

of that island. With regard to rainfalls he remarks that there has
been an evident change during the past two hundred years, or since the
time of Sir Hans Sloane, the author of the Natural History of Jamaica,
but we think it may well be questioned whether the rainfall records of
those times are sufticiently full and accurate to form the basis of any
comparison. (Nature, XXv, p. 153.)

Dr. F. J. Studnicka publishes in the Abkhandlungen of the Bohemian
Association, complete tables on the observations of rainfalls made at
about 300 stations in that country. In addition to these, there are
about 500 more established by the Bohemian Foresters’ Association,
so that this country is one of the best provided for in Europe. (The
total number of rain-stations in France is about 1,200, and in Great
Britain, 2,000.) (Nature, Xxvi, p. 164.)

The London Meteorological Office has published a rainfall table for
the British Isles, prepared by Mr. Symons, and giving the monthly re-
sults at 367 stations, for which continuous observations are available
during the last fifteen years. (Nature, xxv, 140.)

Professor Dufour gives some estimate of the enormous amount of
damage done by several hail-storms, notably the terrible one of July 13,
1788. He states that, on the strength of encouraging and credible testi-
mony from Italy and France, lightning-rods were erected in the Can-
ton Vaud about 1825 “for the purpose of hindering the formation of
hail by withdrawing the electricity from the clouds,” but he considers
it very difficult to admit that there can be any such beneficial result,
especially when we consider that the hailis formed in tops of ciouds
2 long distance from the scenes of its devastation. A forest may be
regarded as a collection of lightning-rods; such also is the mass of
sharp-pointed rocks forming the bare summit of a mountain or the
chimneys or turrets and steeples that abound in the city, but none of
these have been shown to have any influence in diminishing the hail
although they do slightly diminish the lightning in thunder-storms.
(Nature, XXVU, p. 530.)

Professor Loomis has contributed a first and second edition of a
memoir on the distribution of rain-fall over the globe. These maps
show unquestionably the broad features of the geographical distribu-
tion of rain-fall. (Nature, XxvVI, p. 206; American Jour. of Science, Jan.,
1883.)

W.J. Black, commenting on Professor Loomis’s map, states that to
observe rain-fall on a small island is not the same as observing on mid-
ocean. Theocean rain-fall can only be made out by observations on board
ships, and these require a long time to effect. (Nature, XXvVI, p. 222.)

VII.—Winps.

Brault has published charts of the North Atlantic, showing curves of
equal average wind velocity for the summer, which curves he calls

isanemones. These curves almost exactly reproduce the map of mean
METEOROLOGY. 419

isobars, and Brault believes that a similar coincidence occurs for other
portions of the earth and other seasons. (Nature, XXVII, p. 20.)

A. Domojirof describes in the Isvestia of the St. Petersburg Geograph-
ical Society what little is known of anemometric observations at sea.
Several series of such observations have been made, notably by Bessels
on the Polaris (1872), Rykatcheff on board the Nayezdnik (1879), and
by Domojirof on the Nordenskjold (1879) and the Djighit (1880). (Na-
ture, XXVI, p. 83.)

W. Clement Ley, in studying the relation between wind force and
the barometric gradient, gives the following mean wind velocities at
Stonyhurst Observatory, obtained by himself from the hourly readings
published by the Meteorological Committee for the years 1874 to 1876,
inclusive, for different amounts of atmospheric gradient:

|
| : ive
Mean yolecity of w ing | Mean velocity in miles
Gradient per 15 nauti-| per orits betwee, | pet hour of winds
cal miles. ss pes ea NW from points between
(in Chee, she | NT ONY E Wistar
- 006 4.31 5. 53
. 009 5. 90 6. 82
. 012 7.79 9. 63
015 > 11. 09 13. 97
018 13. 03 15. 29

The mean velocities at Kew Observatory for the same period for simi-
lar gradients are as follows:

Mean velocity in miles | Mean velocity in miles
oe : per hour of wind) per hour of winds
Goedicnt ner 1p SEES from points between | from points between
| sist S. S. E. and N.W.| N.N.W. and S. E.
(inclusive). (inclusive).
. 006 4.14 6. 88
. 009 6. 41 8. 63
- 012 8. 37 10. 93
SOLS 11. 21 14 27
- 018 13. 56 16. 98

|
| i

This shows that for any given (moderate) gradient winds from north
and east points are stronger than from south and west points at these
stations. (Nature, May 5, 1881, xxrv, p. 8°)

Ralph Abercromby has read before the Meteorological Society of
London a paper on the diurnal variations of winds and weather in
relation to isobars by constructing charts for various hours of the same
day. He finds, as has been explained by Koppen and Terrel, that by the
same gradient there is more wind by day than by night; and that, again,
in cyclones the wind curves inward more by night than by day. The
mean diurnal frequency of rain increases during the daytime, and this is
explained by the fact that in any given cyclone the area of rainfall is
larger by day than by night. (Natwre, xxv1, p. 95.)

C. A. Stevenson records the velocity of the wind in the southwest
gale of November 21, 22, 1881, at Edinburgh: Mean velocity, 62.3 miles
420 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882.

per hour; the highest squall, 71.6 miles. He observed these velocities
by means of clouds of smoke rising fromchimneys. (Nature, xxv, p. 102.)

Whipple and Baker communicate to the London Meteorological Soci-
ety the results cf the discussions of the Kew observations of the wind.
They find that the wind force increases arithmetically with the increase
of the gradient; and again, thatthe angle at which the wind crosses the
line of gradient averages 52°, and does not vary with the steepness of
the gradient or the velocity of the wind. (Nature, xxv, p. 319.)

The committee on wind-pressure report to the Brit. Assoc. A. S. that
the maximum pressure of wind on small plane surfaces had been ascer-
tained to exceed 90 pounds to the square foot, and it is possible that an
average of 56 pounds might hold good for the whole surface of very ex-
posed structures. (Nature, XXv, p. 448.)

VIII.— BAROMETRIC PRESSURE.

Mr. H. 8S. Eaton has published a paper on the average height of the
barometer in London. The great value of the paper consists both in
the long period of one hundred years for which the monthly averages of
each year are given, and in the careful and laborious elimination of in-
strumental errors and errors arising from breaks of one or more days
in the observations of the months. The series is one of the most valu-
able we possess in dealing with questions of meteorological variations.
The mean atmospheric pressure at 32° and sea-level for London is 29.952
inches, the mean monthly maximum, 29.996 inches, occurring in June,
and the minimum, 29.900 inches, in November, the mean for October
being nearly as low, viz, 29.909 inches. In adiscussion which followed
a reading of the paper, Mr. Strachan remarked that even another one
hundred years’ observations would not alter the positions of these points
of the London curve, a remark no doubt quite true for London. On
advancing, however, to the southwest, the means for June and July
approach towards equality, and ultimately the July mean becomes
larger as we advance into the region of high pressure, which occupies
the Atlantic to the southwest during this month. On the ether hand,
as we approach northward, the means for May and *June approach
towards equality, till about the south of Scotland the mean for May
becomes the maximum for the year, and the further north the more
decidedly is May the maximum, till in Iceland it exceeds the mean of
any other month by the tenth of an inch. Attention was drawn to the
dips in the curves of pressure for April and July. These, in all proba-
bility, are permanent features in the London curve of pressure for
March, April, and July, when drawn from a long average, since the
former is connected with the east winds of spring, and the latter with
the great summer barometric depression, which falls to the lowest point
in July in the interior of the Europo-Asiatic continent. (Nature, De-
cember 23, 1880, XXIII, p. 154.) |;

An important work by the late J. Allan Broun has been published
MiTEOROLOGY. 421

by E. D. Archibaid, in which the author seems to conclude that heat,
moisture, and the “shuffling of atmospheric strata” will not explain the
semi-diurnal and other oscillations of the barometer. [Already in 1865
the present writer had occasion verbally to express to several meteor-
ologists and physicists in Europe his conviction that the intricate ana-
lytical formule deduced by Ferrel in 1858-1860 would eventually be
found to demonstrate these oscillations as a dynamic result of the mo-
tion of the atmosphere due to the diurnal and annual variations in the
action of the sun upon it as a whole.—C. A.] (Nature, XXII, p. 597.)

IX.—STORMS.

The idea propounded by Mr. Oliver that the axis of a cyclone is in-
clined is no new one, and is controverted by E. D. Archibald, who also
quotes Ley and Ferrel as showing that it is far more probable that the
axes are inclined a little forward. (Nature, XXVI, p. 222.)

Mr. Adams is preparing to communicate by telescopic signals between
Mauritius and Réunion, a distance of 134 miles. He uses a heliostat by
day, and a petroleum lamp with a flat wick by night. With this method
of signaling, if successful, it will often be possible to telegraph the
approach of the eyclone twenty-four to thirty-six hours before it has
reached Mauritius. (Nature, xxvI, p. 612.)

An interesting popular article on tornadoes in Nature, after alluding
to some characteristics of these storms in America, makes the following
remarks relative to similar storms in England.

In examining cyclones phenomena occasionally present themselves
which strongly suggest the idea that they include within their circuit,
as an independent meteor, the whirlwind or the tornado, the phenomena
in question being most freauently met with in those cyclones which pre-
sent, in close continuity, masses of air differing very widely from each
other in temperature and humidity. Of such cyclones the great storm
of October 14 last appears to be one. On that occasion the changes of
temperature and humidity were sharp and sudden, particularly from the
Grampians to the Cheviots, the great fall occurring when the wind changed
to northward. As we have already stated (Nature, XXIV, p. 585),
off the Berwickshire coast the darkness accompanying the changes
of wind, temperature, and humidity was denser and more threatening
than elsewhere, and almost simultaneously with the approach of these
changes a hurricane, or rather tornado, broke out with a devouring
energy which bore everything before it. The tornado character of the
storm off Eyemouth is shown by the accounts of some of the survivors,
who describe the wind as blowing straight down from the sky with an
impetuosity so vehement and overmastering that the sea for some ex-
tent was beaten down flat into a stretch of seething foam by the wind,
while outside this tract the waves seemed to be driven up to a height
absolutely appallingy which in their turn engulfed many of the boats
yet remaining. Similar seas, with level wastes of seething foam, bounded
immediately by waves of a height and threatening aspect never before
22

SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882.

witnessed, were encountered by several well-appointed steamers out in
the middle of the North Sea during this storm, thus confirming the ob-
servations of the Eymouth fishermen. These facts seem to point to
one or perhaps two tornadoes with slanting columns, the terrific force of
the gyrations of whose lower extremities played no inconspicuous part
in the devastation wrought during the continuance of this memorable
storm. (Nature, Xxv, p. 157.)

J. A. B. Oliver, of Glasgow, in a note on the frequency of hail-storms
in Great Britain, gives the following data:

=

| |
| Farmer’s | A
eee Ti SOB TOTIAS Giddy’s total | ale
oe fusurance | total in five | in twenty. | ,THomeon's
; Tall av. | years of ob- | one years at Soto
Sea servation. Penzance. Caner e
ge.
|
Winter: -nee) cb sciees owe sicmicions soca sepicinc alone cnneeeeeee | cama mse he alan eae aes aseeeeat 45. 5 to 54.5
UE EO Bone Roaco aan eceas Se ace ms aanoee 0 11 3 |
INERT TA caes oot Seco SatSconseecaseonEoes 1 7 25
RS DLE Be Orson S CEOBBO See DOO EE ADS ACESOSnnE ase nooSte depicnode| euodemcrooea Hd | Sasaaceacpecsd 29. 5 to 70. 0
Mare heres nee eure tose as eaten Monee aera 2 5 25 |
ASD LI Steet wets aaiienciee Caeuesieciacces 3 8 27
May i canamecasck cicce sein sactisiecmcment snas 7 11 Ws
Sune SOD Ce HREOC DOUEL DEON OO OE BAe SSSA gOPC Od HudeHaooCUSEca tecrinenseeas-|lcooocceéscatos- | 22.0 to 78.0
TNO else lawtopeiciare ew seta cinys eis efalorsiars. ote fom sine sits 10 6 5 |
Dtilye sees sabre koa makes 17 2 1 |
PATE PDA CUR COSI OC GDOOCO ACE CLOSE aS EO ae 4 1 0
PUT ENE epee ODOC ODOC SEER COOL be OO eo OGer! shoosiansodaser Hossmoosacdoss soacécionduesd 3. 0 to 97.0
Septembers eae seicce seen esi atie sacs 2 6 5
QOctober?s. 32 Se eee sss eeisc 2s cw eneeace 0 iu 17
INGV OMDOR cna oss owes ere eae caoue nace a eee 0 7 22
December. vo-c-scasscciie cece onseseeee 0 13 43

From a comparison of these tables we see that Dalton, Giddy, and
Thomson agree in making winter the season of maximum hail-fall, while
the insurance statistics point to the opposite conclusion, the hail-storms
in June and July being much in excess of those in the other months of
the year. Oliver strongly suspects that Dalton, and other observers
who have arrived at similar results, included in their enumeration of
hail-falls, what we may call, in absence of a better name, winter hail. It
is very unfortunate that the word “hail” has, in our language, been
used to denote two entirely different phenomena, the French gréle,
or hail proper, and grésil, or that small, round, powdery snow which
often falls towards the end of a snow-storm and in the early part of a
very frosty night. Grésil has nothing in common with gréle. The one
falls exclusively in winter, and the other, perhaps, as exclusively in
summer. (Nature, June 30, 1881, xxtv, p. 190.)

X.—a ATMOSPHERIC ELECTRICTY; b TERRESTRIAL MAGNETISM; ¢
GROUND CURRENTS; d AURORAS.

In the first lecture at the South Kensington Museum on solar physics
by Professor Stokes, October, 1881, he suggests some new views in re-
gard to atmospheric electricity. He says:

‘*Where shall we get the electromotive force sufiicient to send a dis-
charge through 50, 60, or 80 miles of atinosphere, such as occurs in the case
of the auroral streamers? Measurements made upon the Atlantic cable
METROROLOGY. sen Ay

indicated an electro-motive force equivalent in extreme cases to six
Daniell’s cells. But afew hundreds of Daniell’s cells would be quite in-
sufficient to explain the auroral discharge. There is, however, one in-
stance of electric phenomena where we have tremendous tensions to
deal with; and atmospheric electricity of tension sufficient, as in ordi-
nary lightning, to strike across a mile of air at ordinary density would
probably be competent to strike across many miles of rarefied air. It
has long since been remarked that displays of aurorze seem in some way
or other in high latitudes to take the place of thunder-storms in low
latitudes. Well, then, I will expiain what I imagine takes place. I do
not enter into any speculation as to the cause of atmospheric electricity.
We know as a fact, from its manifestation, that it exists, and that is
sufficient for my purpose. Suppose, now, that the air, especially the
higher portions of the air, over a large tract of country, say to the
north of us, were more or less highly electrified—positively or negatively
as the case may be—we will suppose positively; if the electric tension
were sufficient, we might, since dense air is a non-conductor, have a
discharge taking place in the higher regions of the atmosphere where
the air is rarefied, and accordingly opposes less resistance to the change,

‘In the figure the great circle P E p e is supposed to represent a sec-
tion of the earth by a plane passing through its center. This faint shad-
ing outside represents the atmosphere, the height of course being énor-
mously exaggerated.

P

Meridian section of the Earth.

“Suppose in some way or other a portion of the upper atmosphere, as
C, got considerably charged positively or negatively, say positively, it
would act by induction on the earth below. The opposite electricity,
424 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882.

negative in that case, would be accumulated underneath, as at c, and
this portion of the earth would form, as it were, a portion of a Leyden
jar, the lower atmosphere being the dielectric or glass of the jar, the
upper atmosphere being partly the dielectric and partly also the charged
coating. It would be represented more precisely by an imaginary coat-
ing outside, composed not of tin-foil but of some badly conducting sub-
stance. The positive electricity about C would be bound down in part
by the negative electricity about c, which it induces. In another por-
tion of the atmosphere—it may be at some considerable distance from
the former—you may have the atmosphere charged in an opposite way;
and of course if this were negative there would be induced positive
electricity below, or it might be that the whole of the atmosphere from
€ to Dis charged positively, but at D the negative charge is much
feebler than at C. The end result would be the same, but for facility
of explanation I will suppose that the upper portion in one place is
actually charged with electricity of the opposite kind to what the charge
is at the other. If the tension were sufficient then there might be a
striking across of the electricity of this name in the atmosphere from
© to D, and in the earth in the reverse direction. Compared with the
atmosphere the earth would be an exceedingly good conductor, so that
the electro-motive force concerned in sending currents from one part of
the earth to another would be, comparatively speaking, trifling, and
therefore the electro-motive force represented perhaps by a few scores
of the elements of Daniell’s battery. Thus, then, in atmospheric elec-
tricity we appear to have the tension requisite to send the discharge
through a considerable space of rarefied air. Now, if a discharge took
place, and if it were night and the sky were clear it would, at least
where sufficiently concentrated, be visible to us just the same way as
the discharge passing through the exhausted tube is visible by the
light it produces. It would produce in fact an aurora. The air is not
a comparatively good conductor, like a thunder-cloud, from which a
great quantity of electricity strikes in one moment, but is a bad con-
ductor, so that the electricity can pass only in a spitting sort of way.
We may conceive here that we have a sort of double current, yet not
forming a complete circuit; nevertheless a discharge would go on nearly
of the same nature as if the circuit were complete, and the electro-mag-
netic effect of such a discharge on the magnetic needle would be nearly
the same as that of a circuit complete.

‘‘ Now, if there only be a sufficient quantity of electricity, we have here
the elements necessary for producing a disturbance of the magnetic
meedle. Moreover, those disturbances, as the instruments show, are of
the most fitful and apparently capricious character. They resemble in
that the fitful character of electric discharges through air. I need
hardly say, according to this theory the earth current consists in the
return currents produced by the statically-induced charge on the sur-
face of the earth, induced by the charged atmosphere above. When
METEOROLOGY. 425

there is a neutralization of the electricity from one part to another of
the atmosphere above, the induced electricity in the earth is set free,
and we have earth currents to bring about a redistribution of the elee-
tricity on the surface of the earth.

“Tt seems to me that this theory not only accounts for the connection
between the phenomena (which, however, could otherwise be accounted
for), but enables us to conceive how it is that electricity strikes across
such enormous distances in the upper regions of the air, and I think
further it will account for some interesting features of that electric dis-
charge which, no doubt, constitutes the aurora.

‘Tf there is reason to believe that when the sun is ina state of special
activity as to vertical currents and sunspots there is then an increased
radiation from it, it may be well that the meteorology of the earth is af-
fected by the changes which take place at the surface of the sun, but
the meteorology of the earth forms an extremely complicated problem.”
(Nature, October, 1881, xx1v, pp. 616-18.)

S. H. Freeman communicates to the American Journal of Science the
result of some experiments on the production of electricity by evapora-
tion; his results are adverse to the theory that any sensible amount of
atmospheric electricity can have been produced by evaporation on the
earth’s surface. (American Journal of Science, June, 1882.)

Captain Kerr states that in the severe storm on the Firth of Forth in
November, 1881, his vessel was enveloped in a dense shower of hail and
electrical discharges. At one time a series of clear balls of lightning,
resembling a chain, was observed immediately over the ship, and was
succeeded by an explosion in the funnel of the steamer, followed by balls
of fire running along the bridge and bounding off into the water; the
engine room was filled with smoke, and it would seem as though the
lightning had passed down the funnel. (Nature, xxv, p. 125.)

Mr. Cruls has communicated to the Paris Academy a memoir on the
variation in the annual number of thunder-storms at Rio Janeiro during
1851 to 1876; he finds a close correspondence with the frequency of solar
spots. (Nature, XXv, p. 24.)

J. Moir states that on February 18, 1882, in Aberdeenshire, Scotland,
a severe storm was followed by a specially dark cloud and “ a vivid flash
of lightning close at hand, but without thunder. At the same time I
found myself enveloped in a sheet of pale, flickering, white light. It
seemed to proceed from every part of my clothes. I found it impossible
to shake off the flickering flames; when I walked on they continued with
me for two or three minutes, disappearing only when the violence of the
blast was somewhat diminished.” The great variety of methods of
manifestation of atmospheric electricity makes it desirable that some
one should collect such deseriptions as the above and contribute to the
elucidation of the subject. (Nature, xxv, p. 410.)

Additional cases of similar phenomena are given by two other cor-
respondents in Nature, xxv, pp. 427 and 484.
426 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FCR 13882.

G. M. Whipple communicated to the British Association the results
of observations of atmospheric electricity at Kew Observatory during 1880
The author, having spoken about the work already done, stated that he
had devised a modification of Professor Everett’s method, and had con-
structed a glass scale by means of which curves could be tabulated with
great facility. They had commenced tabulating and discussing the
accumulated records, and he was able to state some of the facts derived
from the curves of 1880. Having determined the atmospheric tension
for every hour during the year when measurement of the trace was
possible, the diurnal, monthly, and annual variations were completed.
The maximum tension occurred in January and March; the minimum in
August and September. During summer the tension is greatest with
an east wind and lowest with a north wind. In winter the tension is
greatest with north and northwest winds and least with southeast
winds. (Nature, September, 1851, xxv, p. 491.)

A report has been published by Messrs. Spon & Co. of the lightning-
rod conference which has been in session for three years, and which has
collected an enormous mass of information. The conference was formed
by delegates from the Meteorological Society of London, the Royal In-
suitute of British Architects, the Society of Telegraph Engineers, and
the London Physical Society. The report will contain a simple code of
rules for the erection of lightning-rods, which any ordinary individual
will be able to understand. (Nature, xxv, p. 184.)

Professor Tait, in the course of a lecture on thunder-storms, referring
to the beneficial effect of a large number of well-grounded, sharp-pointed
lightning-rods, stated that they afford absolute protection agaiust ordi-
ehary lightning; thus until lightning-rods became common in Pieter-
Inaritzburg, that town was coustantly visited by thunder-storms; they
still come as frequently as ever, but they cease to give lightning flashes
whenever they visit the town, and begin to do so as soon as they have
passed over it. (Nature, XXII, p. 365.)

Mr. W. H. Preece read a paper before the British Association for the
Advancement of Science, On the best form to give to lightning-conductors.
The question was whether the lightning-conductor should be a solid
rod or tubular or flat. Experiments made by heating and deflagrating
wires through the different conductors left no doubt that intense dis-
charges do obey the law of Olim, and therefore that the additional sur-
face of flat and tubular conductors is of no advantage in their condue-
tivity. (Nature, xxiI, p. 446.)

R. Anderson called the attention of the British Association to the
necessity for a regular inspection for lightning-conductors. The au-
thor referred to a paper of M. W. de Fonvielle, ‘‘ On the advantages of
keeping records of physical phenomena connected with thunder-storms,”
read in 1872. Nothing, however, has been done by the association
since then. He not enly confirmed the couclusions at which M.de Fon-
vielle arrived as to the desirability of collecting such data, but was
METEOROLOGY. 427

of the opinion that the organization should go further, and arrange
for a regular inspection of all public buildings which had lightning-
conductors applied. The necessity for this he demonstrated by ad-
ducing a number of striking cases where damage, more or less severe,
had oceurred to buildings, even though having lightning-conductors
attached to them. The cases now cited, he explained, were supple-
mentary to those communicated in his paper on a similar subject to
the association in 1878. (Nature, xxi, p. 446.)

Balfour Stewart, in reference to the subject of terrestrial magnetism,
propounds the following working hypothesis: “ May there not be a fee-
ble magnetic nucleus in the earth around which the great convection
currents, the trades and anti-trades, move, as conductors moving across
lines of magnetic force, and the tendency of which will be to swell up
and sustain the magnetism of the whole earth to the point of saturation ?
If this be granted, then the changes in winds and currents must produce
corresponding changes (diurnal, annual, secular, and non-periodic) in
terrestrial magnetism, so far as we can observe the latter.” He adds
that, with Mr. Dodgson and Mr. Hiraoka, he has convinced himself of
the existence of intimate connection between these phenomena. [The
same conclusion has been independently reached by Vines at Havana. ]}
We may look upon the earth as composed of concentric layers: (1) amag-
netic nucleus; (2) non-conducting primary rock; (5) the conducting moist
earth and ocean; (4) the lower dense non-conducting air; (5) the upper
thin conducting atmosphere. We observe earth currents in layer 3, and
annual discharges or currents in layer 5. The former are apparently
secondary currents induced by magnetic changes; the latter may also
have a similar origin. (Nature, xxt, p. 146.)

In a lecture on solar physics Professor Stewart stated that he be-
lieved one great cause of weather changes to be solar variability, in
which we have periods of short length, as well as others extending
over many years.

These terrestrial weather changes, it is sufficiently well known, are
propagated from west to east after they have once appeared.

Again, there are variations in the diurnal declination range which
may be said to constitute magnetic weather.

These are also caused by solar variability, and it is suspected that
they are likewise propagated from west to east, although more quickly
than the well-understood changes of meteorological weather.

It would thus appear to be at least possible that British magnetical
weather of to-day may be followed by corresponding meteorological
weather five or six days hence.

Professor Stewart has made a preliminary trial which induces him
to think that this is the case, and that it may ultimately be possible to
forecast British meteorological weather by means of magnetic weather
some five or six days previous to it. (Nature, May 5, 1581, xXxIv, p. 7.)

Prot. Stewart, in a lecture on the connection between solar and ter-
428 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882.

restrial phenomena, says: ‘‘ There is more than a general correspond-
ence between these, for it is believed that all inequalities of sunspots,
whether of long or short period, are accompanied by corresponding
changes of declination range, a large range invariably accompanying
a large number of spots. Perhaps I ought to say a large range fol-
lowing a large outbreak of spots, for the solar phenomena Jead the
way and the magnetic change follows after them at a greater or less in-
terval of time. I may add, likewise, that we have some evidence
which leads us to suspect that particular states of declination range,
like particular states of weather, have a motion from west to east, the
magnetical weather moving farther than the meteorological. From a
preliminary investigation which I have made, I even think there may
ultimately be a possibility of forecasting meteorological weather by
means of magnetic weather five or six days before.” (Nature, June 16,
1881, RXV, (pe Lot)

Rev. IF. Howlett communicated to the British Association for the
Advancement of Science a memoir On the general coincidence between
sunspots activity and terrestrial magnetic disturbance. His object was to
inquire how far solar activity more especially as regards sunspots, is
wont to be accompanied by magnetic disturbance, as recorded by the
automatic declination curves at Kew and Greenwich. The data for
such an investigation were furnished by comparisons instituted be-
tween the most striking instances of sunspots, gathered out of a long
series of solar observations carried on by Mr. Howlett from the year
1859 to the present epoch, and the synchronous conditions of the mag-
netic curves at the observatories above mentioned.

Out of twenty-four comparisons instituted, the following is the suni-
mary of results as showing the coincidence of extensive solar activity.
and synehronous magnetic disturbances:

TBO yes Os Si ane eh RAR a ea ane OO les 5
Werner dediiga seh. lon ce ae ape mice are Nie ace Seer 3
Decidediviatse ee kak eee Bay Ree oe ee 9
Mioderaitielyé tere stan tect cet ers ie ie eee cee 3
Negatively (no spots; no storms) "352222482 eee 1
— 21 affirmatively.
Questionable: 2. eke ee ees eee eee 1
Contradictory ae sasack hk seme icco aa een 2

— 3 contradictory.
24

Thus, then, from the data collected it would certainly appear that
marked periods of solar activity are wont to coincide with marked pe-
riods of terrestrial magnetic disturbance; but yet from a careful com-
parison of the days and hours of the magnetic records appealed to it
also appeared that the disturbances were manifested in various ways,
not only as regarded the extent of the magnetic excursions of the
METEOROLOGY. 429

needle, the rapidity of the oscillations, or the persistency of the more
moderate disturbances, but also they were found to follow at consid-
erably different intervals after the commencement of the observed
solar outbursts. (Nature, 1881, xxtv, p. 466.)

Prof. W.G. Adams, ina study as to the origin and nature of magnetic
disturbances, chose the month of March, 1879, for a comparison of the
photographic records of magnetic disturbances, and records for the
whole month were sent from Lisbon, Coimbra, Stonyhurst, Vienna, St.
Petersburg, and Bombay in the northern hemisphere, and from Mel-
bourne and Mauritius in the southern hemisphere. He finds that an
inductive action equivalent to a change of position of the north magnetic
pole towards the geographical pole would account for the changes re-
corded at these places.

‘In attempting to explain the disturbance of March 15 by currents
of electricity or discharges of statical electricity in the air above the
needles, we must imagine that at first there is a strong current. from
the southwest over St. Petersburg, from the west over Vienna, and
from the northwest over Kew and Lisbon; that at Mauritius this cur-
rent is from the north, and at Bombay from the south. Thus we must
imagine that a current of electricity passes down from the northwest
to the southeast, going on towards the east over Vienna, and towards
the northeast over St. Petersburg. This must be kept up very much
along the same line throughout the first part of the disturbance, and
then the current must be altered in strength in the same manner at all
stations.

The study of the great storm of August 11 points rather to solar ac-
tion as the cause of this disturbance. In the storm of March 12 these
magnetic changes are so large as to be quite comparable with the earth’s
total force, so that any cause which is shown to be incompetent from
the nature of things to produce the one can hardly be beld to account
for the other. (Nature, 1881, xxIv, p. 492.)

W. Ellis has compared with the Greenwich records lithographed
copies of the photographie traces made at Zi-ka-wei (lat. 31° N., long.
122° east) of the declination and horizontal force magnets, extending
from August 11 to 14, and from August 17 to 20, 1880. Some particu-
lars of the comparison are as follows (Greenwich time is used through-
out):

A general examination of the two sets of curves shows that the
disturbances were usually greater in magnitude at Greenwich than at
Zi-ka-wei. Comparing the curves in detail, it is found on August 11,
at 10.20 A. M., after a quiet period, the declination and horizontal force
magnets at Greenwich both made a sudden start, which was the com-
mencement of a magnetic disturbance lasting until midnight. An ap-
parently equal horizontal force is shown on the Zi-ka-wei curves, 0c-
curring in declination at 10.12 A. M., and in a horizontal force at
10.20 a. m. (as nearly as the small scale on which the curves are drawn
430 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882.

will allow measures to be made). This first motion was to decrease
the west declination and increase tke herizontal force at both places. A
bold motion in the two Zi-ka-wei curves at 11.30 A. M. (increase of dec-
lination, decrease of horizontal force) has corresponding decrease of
horizontal force at Greenwich, not accompanied, however, by much mo-
tion in declination. And of numerous fluctuations occurring at Green-
wich, between noon and midnight of the same day, some appear to
correspond with motions at Zi-ka-wei whilst others do not.

A calm state follows at both places until near noon of August 12.
Upon this day at about 11.40 A. M. the magnets at Greenwich made
a further start, and until 4 P. M. the mcvements were large. <A corre
sponding start is also shown in both the Zi-ka-wei curves, commencing,
according to the register, some minutes sooner than at Greenwich, the
movements following being similarly large. Afterwards, until 6 A. M.
of August 15, considerable oscillation was nearly continually shown at
Greenwich, there being especially a large change of declination between
7 and 9p. M. (August 12); but there is no strongly marked motion at
the latter time at Zi-ka-wei, and the changes throughout are much
smaller than at Greenwich. Later, on August 13, further oscillations
occur at both places, but the separate motions are in no particular
accordance. This period of disturbance seems to definitely come to an
end at both places at 6 A. M., August 14.

A period of quiet is broken at Greenwich August 18, at 1.45 P. M.,
by a sharp though small movement both in declination and horizontal
force (increase of both). There is a corresponding sharp inerease
(after quietude) of horizontal force at Zi-ka-wei, but no change of decli-
nation. A bold increase of declination and decrease of horizontal force
at Greenwich, 7 A. M. of August 19, is accompanied by a similar de-
crease of horizontal force at Zi-ka-wei, but with little change of decli-
nation. Bolder changes occur at the latter place at noon, but with
comparatively small change at Greenwich. The magnets become quiet
at both places at or near midnight, August 19.

The general result of this comparison of Greenwich and Zi-ka-wei
curves appears to be that, after a quiet period, the first indication of a
disturbance, if sudden (it need not be large), occurs simultaneously or
nearly so at both places, but that during the continuance of disturbance
the oscillations of the magnets seem to be so locally modified that it
becomes difficult to trace correspondence: some movements appear to
correspond and some not. A strongly marked bend in the trace at one
place may appear, as it were, stunted in that at the other place, or may
not be perceptible at all. The disturbances appear to die out at pretty
much the same time at both places. All this confirms very much what
Mr. Whipple has pointed out as regards Melbourne. (Nature, XXII,
p. 558.)

M. Dechevrens of Zi-ka-wei, in some remarks which accompany the
sheet of curves, notes that the disturbance of August 11-14 is the great-
METEOROLOGY, ASE

est experience since the establishment of photographic registration at
Zi-ka-wei in the year 1877, and he considers that the changes then ob-
served (those of vertical force included, of which he gives no curves) are
similar to suchas would be produced by a powerful magnet placed in
a certain defined position. It may perhaps be here pointed out that
the results given by the astronomer royal in his paper, ‘“ First Analysis
of One Hundred and Seventy-seven Magnetic Storms” (Phil. Trans. for
1863), appear to give no support to a theory of this kind, and indeed
seem conclusively to show that at Greenwich the observed disturbances
cannot be accounted for in any such a way.

It should be added that M. Dechevrens reports also that strong earth
currents were experienced on August 11 and 12, on the submarine tele-
graph lines connecting Shanghai and Nagasaki and Hong-Kong, as well
as on the land lines in Japan, so much so that correspondence was fre-
quently interrupted, but that no interruption appears to have been
experienced on the occasion of the generally smaller magnetic disturb-
ance of August 18. (Nature, 1880, XXIII, p. 33.)

Admiral Mouchez has resumed magnetic observations in subterra-
nean chambers at the Paris Observatory. The apparatus will be self-
registering by photography, but direct observations will also be made
with the old instruments used by Arago. (Nature, XXVI, p. 207.)

Professor Nipher of Saint Louis has investigated the peculiar distri-
bution of magnetic phenomena in Missouri. In explanation of certain
abnormal phenomena originally observed by him in 1878 he finds
that the irregularities are not due to minute local causes, but that the
perturbing force disturbs the declination of the magnetic needle over
an area of 50 or 100 miles square. Thus the line of 8° E. crosses the
Missouri Valley in a SW. direction and then bends abruptly to the
NE., recrossing the Missouri, and after a wide detour crosses the river
again for the third time and returns to its SW. direction. (Nature,
XXV, p. 40.)

W. H. Preece, ina valuable historical paper on telephony, says: ‘The
discovery of the telephone has made us acquainted with another phe-
nomenon. It has enabled us to establish beyond doubt the fact that
currents of electricity actually traverse the earth’s crust; the theory
that the earth acts as a great reservoir for electricity may be placed
in the physicist’s waste-paper basket. A telephone circuit when in con-
nection with the earth gives distinct evidence of every visible flash of
lightning, however far off the thunder-storm may be. No difference in
time has been observed between seeing the flash and hearing the crash.
There are certain natural currents flowing through the earth; they are
ealled earth currents, and at times acquire such considerable energy
that with a telephone pressed to the ear, I have been told, although
I have not experienced it, the noise made is very near.” (Nature, XXVI,
p. 518.)

Professor Stokes, in some remarks on his admirable lectures on atmos-
432 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882.

pheric electricity and solar physics, recalls attention to the important
papers by Barlow on earth currents in the London Philosophical Trans-
actions for 1849. (Nature, xxv, 30.)

A. J. 8. Adams, from observations of earth currents from 1866 to 1882,
concludes that these are subject toa diurnal period, dependent upon the
position of the moon and the sun, similar to the ocean tides. (ature,
XXIII, p. 424.)

One of the best-marked magnetic storms occurred through out the globe
on April16 and April 19, 1882. Mr. W. Ellis of the Royal Observatory,
Greenwich, has compared together the full photographie traces made
by the self-recording apparatus at that place and at Toronto. He finds
that the times or moments of the commencement of the disturbance
are in one case two minutes earlier at Greenwich, but in the other case
one minute later, indicating that such disturbances are simultaneous at
widely distant localities. (There is no evidence that the time-scales
of the photographic sheets are reliable to within a minute, or can be
read off to within less than a minute. The question of simultaneity will
be more thoroughly settled if the International Polar Commission suc-
ceed in their proposed effort to look sharply after the seconds.) (Nature,
XXVI, p. 175.)

Mr. Scuderer has established at Tortosa a simple arrangement of wires
stretched between two houses and connected with telephones and gal-
vanometers, so that he observes both ground currents and atmospheric
electricity, whether due to condensation of aqueous vapor or to light-
ning discharge, or the action of the wind or other occult causes. (Nature,
XXV, 23.)

Warren de la Rue and H. W. Miiller have continued their elaborate
researches into electric discharges in vacuo, and present some of their
conclusions as to the nature of the auroral light as follows: ‘Our ex-
periments on the electric discharge, which have already been published
in the Philosophical Transactions and the Proceedings of the Royal
Society, enable us to state with some degree of probability the height
of the aurora borealis when its display is of maximum brilliancy, and
also the height at which this phenomenon could not occur on account
of great tenuity of the atmosphere.

“Jn Part III of our Electric Researches (Phil. Trans., Part I, vol.
171) we have shown that the least resistance to the discharge in hydro-
gen is at a pressure of 0.642 millimeter, 845 M ;* after this degree of
exhaustion has been reached, a further reduction of pressure rapidly
increases the resistance.

‘‘ Although we have not experimentally determined the pressure of
least resistance for air, we have ascertained that while the discharge oc-
curs in hydrogen at atmospheric pressure between disks 0.22 inch dis-
tance, they require to be approached 0.13 inch to allow the discharge to

=

*[M is about ty, of a millimeter. ]
METEOROLOGY. 433

take place in air. We may therefore assume that the pressure of least
resistance for air is (0.642 x 13) +22 = 0.379 millim., 498.6 M.

“At a height of 37.67 miles above the sea-level, the atmosphere would
have this pressure (neglecting change of temperature), and therefore the
display at this elevation would be of maximum brilliancy and would be
visible at a distance of 585 miles.

“The greatest exhaust that we have produced, 0.000055 millimeters;
0.066 M, corresponds to a height of 81.47 miles, and as 11,000 cells failed to
produce a discharge in hydrogen at this low pressure, it may be assumed
that at this height the discharge would be considerably less brilliant,
especially in air, than that at 37.67 miles, the height of maximum bril-
lianey.

“Ata height of 124.15 miles the pressure would be only 0.00000001
millimeter; and it is scarcely probable that an electric discharge would
occur with any potential conceivable at such a height.

“The color of the discharge varies greatly with the tenuity of air
or other gas with the same potential. Thus in air at a pressure of 62
millimeters, 81579 M, the discharge has the carmine tint which is so fre-
quently observed in the display of the aurora; this corresponds to an
altitude of 12.4 miles, and would be visible at a distance of 336 miles.
At a pressure of 1.5 millimeters, 1974 M, corresponding to a height of
30.86 miles, the discharge becomes salmon-colored, having completely
lost the carmine tint. At a pressure of 0.8 millimeter, corresponding
to 33.96 miles, the tint of the discharge is of a paler salmon-color, and
as the exhaust is carried farther it becomes a pale milky-white. The
roseate and salmon-colored tints are always in the vicinity of the positive
source of the electric current; the positive luminosity fades away grad-
ually, and frequently becomes almost invisible at some distance from
its source. The discharge at the negative terminal in air is always of a
violet hue, and this tint in the aurora indicates a proximity to the neg-
ative source.

“The following table, with the exception of pressure 0.00000001 milli-
meter, exhibits deductions from actual observations:

A Distance
Pressure. Pressure. Height. saniblet Remarks.
Millimeters. M. Miles. Miles.
0. 0000001 0. 00001 124.15 1,061 | No discharge could occur.
0. 000055 0. 066 81. 47 860 | Pale and faint.
0. 379 499. 00 37. 67 585 | Maximum brillianey.
0. 800 1053. 0 33. 96 555 | Pale salmon.
1. 000 1316.0 32. 87 546 | Salmon-colored.
1. 500 1974. 0 30. 86 529 Do
3. 000 3947. 0 27. 42 499 | Carmine.
20. 660 27184. 0 17. 86 403 | Do
62. 000 181579. 0 12. 42 326 | Do
118. 700 56184, 4 11. 58 324 | Full red.

‘Tt is conceivable that the aurora may occur at times at an altitude of

a few thousand feet.” (Nature, 1880, xxi, pp. 33, 34.)
H. Mis. 26——28
434 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882.

W. S. Jevons, after describing the five auroras of August as seen by
him in Norway, adds: After thinking the matter over for three months,
and comparing the auroral coruscations above described with the ex-
quisite discoveries of Mr. Crookes, taking into account also some remarks
in the article on auroras in the new edition of the“ Encyclopedia Bri-
tannica,” I venture to make the suggestion that these coruscations arise
from highly tenuous matter (in what Mr. Crookes calls the radiant state;
projected through the higher part of the atmosphere. It is not possible
in words to give an impression of such a phenomenon in the least degree
approaching to that naturally acquired by watching it under favorable
circumstances for several hours. My belief is that, during the auroras
described, puffs, as it were, of radiant matter were discharged at a great
elevation above the earth’s surface, and the luminosity of these pufis
perhaps arises from conflicts between the projected molecules and those
already spread about the almost vacuous space. The arch and most of
the streamers probably belong to a lower, though still a very high part
of the earth’s atmosphere; but certain of the streamers, as well as
patches of luminous matter seen on the night of the 13th, certainly ex-
ist in the lofty regions through which the radiant matter is projected.
The explanation of the streamers must probably be approached through
that of the coruscations, but they are effects of a very different kind.
(Nature, December 16, 1880, Xx1II, p. 149.)

Prof. W. G. Adams, in a suggestive lecture on magnetic disturbances,
auroras, and earth currents, is almost entirely confined to the results of
British work. With regard to the aurora he seems to teach that its ul-
timate cause must lie in the changes of the sun’s magnetism, and in
tides of the oceans of airabove us. The existence of such aerial tides,
due to the attraction of the sun and moon, has never been recognized
by meteorologists, and it would seem necessary for Professor Adams to
establish this hypothesis on a firmer foundation. (Nature, xxv, pp.
65-71.)

Dr. Spottiswoode, at the conclusion of one of his brilliant lectures on
matter and magneto-electric actions, concludes as follows: ‘* We may even
carry the suggestion of a resistance of the second kind a little further, and
suppose that there is a resistance due to the passage of electricity from
a medium of one density to another, or from layer to layer, of different
degrees of pressure. And from this point of view we may regard the
strie as expressions of resistance due to the varying pressure in differ-
ent parts of the tube. Into the question, whence this variation of press-
ure, I am not, at present, prepared to enter; it must suffice for this even-
ing to have shown that the conclusions which we have drawn from our
experiments are not in disaccordance with other known phenomena of
the electrical discharge.

'“ Before closing I would point out that these laboratory experiments
are not unsuggestive in reference to larger questions. It has long been,
and still is, a disputed question whether a display of the aurora borealis
METEOROLOGY. 435

ever takes place at any considerable elevation above the earth’s surface.
On the one hand observations are cited giving a not unfrequent eleva-
tion of nearly 200 miles, while, on the other, experiments with vacuum
tubes appear to limit the range to less than forty miles. The observa-
tion is, perhaps, a doubtful one at best; it is not easy to fix the position
of so faint and flickering a phenomenon, and it is perhaps even more
difficult to identify a particular phase of it, when seen from two distant
positions.” (Nature, xxv, p. 543.)

J. KR. Capron, in some remarks on the aurora and the spectrum, says:
“‘T again plead the necessity for spectrum observation; it is certainly
possible that some gas may exist in the upper regions of the aurora
giving rise to the citron—perhaps to the red—lines, but it still remains
an unexplained fact that such a gas has hitherto failed to be recognized
in any other body, celestial or terrestrial. The electrical discharges in
vacuum tubes, as tested by Professor Stokes’ prism and slit, no more
represent the aurora than did the cirrus cloud illuminated by the light
of the moon. I would invite all spectroscopists armed with suitable
instruments, persistently to retain accurate micrometer readings of the
aurora spectrum. The approximate places of the lines are pretty well
established; but their actual length of wave positions is much wanted.”
(Nature, XXv, p. 53.)

Nordenskjold, at the Vega winter quarters, observed but rarely any
brilliant aurorz, but the more remarkable phenomenon consisted in a
luminous halo-like arc, not distributed into rays, and characterized by
its feeble brilliancy as well as by the remarkable quietness of the whole
phenomenon; this was neatly always visible on the northeastern part
of the horizon, its summit being at an altitude of from 5 to 12 degrees.
Hour after hour and day after day this arc remained unchanged; figura-
tively it was accompanied by one or several exterior arcs. His obser-
vations and measurements have led him to the following conclusions as
to the nature of aurore: “Our globe,” he says, “even during a mini-
mum aurora year, is adorned with an almost constant crown of light,
single, double, or multiple, whose inner edge was usually, during the
winter of 1878-79, at a height of about 0.03 radius of the earth above its
surface; whose surface was somewhat under the earth’s surface, a little
north of the magnetic pole, and which, with a diameter of about 0.32
radius of the earth, extends in the plane perpendicular to the earth’s
radius and passing through the center of this luminous ring.” (Nature,
XXV, p. 321.)

Nordenskjéld concludes that there are five different regions situated
around the aurora pole where the glory would appear under quite difter-
ent aspects. In the first circular region within 8° of the aurora pole,
the glory is visible only as a luminous mist or a very low bow in a
direction opposite to the aurora pole. In the second region between 8°
and 16° region, the common ring of aurora must be seen as a luminous
bow, the upper part of which is opposite the aurora pole. In the third
436 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882.

region between 16° and 20° region, the common are must be in the zen-
ith, but this light is so small in comparison with the ray aurora, that it
must draw but little attention. The fourth region is a belt between 20°
and 28° distant. Here the aurore usually begin with a luminous bow
in the magnetic north, out of which spread radiant beams either into
free space or to another ring. The ji/th region lies between 28° and 36°
distant; the interior circles of the glory are not seen in this region.
(Nature, XXv, p. 372.)

Weyprecht, shortly before his death, published a “ Pactical Introduc-
tion to the Observations of Aurore,” &c. (Vienna, 1881), in which he re-
peats the important classification of auroral forms given in his Nordlicht-
Beobachtungen. For observations on the altitude of aurorz, with a view
to calculation of height, he recommends a simple instrument, consisting
of a tube with an eye-piece, movable in a magnetic meridian, and with
an altitude circle reading to 4°. The tube must be attached to the
end of the axis, so as to be capable of sweeping the entire meridian.
The observations should be repeated at short and regular intervals, and
both the upper and lower edges of the arches should be observed, thus
giving at once the mean altitude and breadth of the bands. If the
“dark segment” is visibie, its mean height and the azimuth of its sum-
mit must be observed, as it probably indicates the direction of the origin
of the aurora. If a corona is formed the approximate position of its
center must be observed. Another method of determining the position
of the corona is by measuring the direction of the rays of which the
arches are formed. This is best done by measuring their inclination
from the perpendicular in two azimuths 90° apart. If the tube we have
mentioned be provided with an azimuth circle and cross-wires in the
eye-piece, with a position circle reading to 4°, this is readily accom-
plished, the perpendicular being verified by observation of a plumb
line. (Nature, July, 1881, XXIv, p. 241.)

The aurora was remarkably frequent at Stykkisholm, Iceland, during
the winter of 188081. From September 5, when the first aurora of the
season was observed, to February 28, to which date the observations
have been received, aurore were seen on forty-five nights, viz, five in
September, eleven in October, four in November, eight in December,
twelve in January, and five in February, the phenomena being very
brilliant on September 29, December 23, January 31, and February 5.
(Nature, July, 1881, xxiv, p. 261.)

Prof. Sophus Tromholt has published the results of a discussion of
839 observations of the aurora borealis, at 132 Scandinavian stations
on 154 nights, between September, 1878, and April, 1879. These obser-
vations are classified under four heads in accordance with (1) longitude
and latitude of stations; (2) time of year and age of moon; (3) color,
altitude, and form of streamers; (4) sound. Herr Tromholt considers
that it may be accepted as certain that the aurora is a local phenome-
non, circumscribed by narrow limits, and manifested at inconsiderable
METEOROLOGY. 437

distances from the earth’s surface; that the light is generally white and
less often red or green, but in latitudes higher than Bergen it not un-
frequently presents spectral colors; and that the accompaniment of
sound is an indisputable fact. Professor Tromholt still continues his
observations of the aurora borealis, to which he has devoted his atten-
tion for many years. It is his intention to make a catalogue of every
recorded manifestation of the northern light in Norway; and for this
purpose he requests the co-operation of other observers, and will be
grateful for reference to any foreign sources of information, such ag
ships’ logs, journals, weather tables, almanacs, &c., which might yield
materials towards the better elucidation of this phenomenon. (Nature,
XXIII, p. 84.)

Prof. Sophus Tromholt has published a complete catalogue of auro-
ras observed in Northern Greenland from 1865 to 1880. He says that
at Godthaab the aurore are seen almost exclusively in the southern
sky and very rarely in the north, while at the southern part of Green-
land he has seen more intense aurore throughout the whole sky. The
number of observed aurore is directly proportionate to the brightness
of the sky, as shown by the following figures:

Cloudinessy.2.) 1.6 D.7) | 1:8):4.8.. 53:2 (8.3.94 435
AMTOLB 5.0/2) iO tO) UD0706.0. 25. 2.0hv 2.0 2.0. Hlap

After reducing the observed aurore to what they would have been
at a uniformly clear sky he obtains the following series:

No. solar spots ..... Zao AG flo. OO. AOEOL1Sa:5.) 98.6. 7 S94.
Nosanrore:: 3 2s:02 <5 S62 913 67-4 8039) bie 561d) 732/00 46:0
ING? Solar Spots) ~ 2). =.) < a. 5. OL oa. ALG 1325 6.8 2.2 16.3
WeOPAnTOTB So Oe oe ce 74.8).2 9720) 95.0) 102.0) 4 -73:0' 85:25 83.3

The author finds that the location of the auroral belt is subject to
oscillations moving northward during the minimum solar spots and
southward during the maximum. (Nature, xxVI, p. 130.)

Prof. Sophus Tromholt has for several years confined himself to the
investigation of auroras, and has published a monograph on that of
March, 1880, as well as a catalogue of those observed in Norway in 1878
and ’79. He states that he will‘occupy Kautokeino (in Finmark, Nor-
way), during the winter of 1882 and ’83, in order to make corresponding
observations, and he earnestly advocates the establishment of special
aurora observatories. To this central institute, Drontheim, he would
have all Scandinavian observers report regularly. (Nature, XXVI,
pp. 220, 221.)

XI.—a REFRACTION AND MIRAGE. 0 HALOS.

Glasenapp of Pulkeva communicates preliminary results of study
into atmospheric refraction. The want of concentricity of sheets of air
of equal density produces a certain variation in the normal refraction
438 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882.

given in the tables; the surfaces of equal density produce a certain
variation from the normal refraction given in the tables; the surfaces
of equal density being, as arule, inclined to some degree instead of being
horizontal, and the degree of inclination being submitted to a certain
periodicity during a whole year, there necessarily arises from this cause
a certain correction to be applied to the position of a star, much like that
of the annual parallax and aberration, and which might be described as
‘parallax of refraction.” As this correction must obviously affect the
values of the annual parallax and of aberration, it is easy to understand
the necessity of determining its true value with much accuracy. The
values deduced by Glasenapp for the stars of z Urs Majoris, 2 and @
Draconis, are — 0.04, —0./’11, and —0.’’11, which figures would explain
to a certain extent tle negative parallaxes received by M. Nysen (‘ Nu-
tation der Erdaxe”), and which, respectively, are — 0.03 — 0.05, and
—0.’06. The whole work of M. Glasenapp on this subject will soon be
published. (Nature, xxii, p. 373.)

Professor Tait communicates to the Royal Society of Edinburgh a
valuable communication on the subject of mirage. He has discovered the
simple assumption as to the law of the variation of density in a stratum
of air near the earth’s surface which is necessary and sufficient to ex-
plain the simultaneous appearance of erect, inverted, and again erect im-
ages which have been frequently observed, but never before explained.
(Nature, xxv, p. 92.)

Tait, at the subsequent meeting of the Royal Society of Edinburgh,
June 5, communicated the second part of his paper on mirage, in which
he proceeded to investigate more carefully that distribution of atmos-
pheric pressure which would explain the mirage phenomena.

Two horizontal strata of uniform but different densities, separated by
a stratum whose density varies continuously from the one to the other,
were found to give results in close agreement with observation. That
a stratum of air should remain of practically uniform density, through
even a comparatively small height, requires a lowering of temperature
to compensate for the diminution of pressure as the height increases;
but this rate of change of temperature, Professor Tait showed, was not
greater than had been observed in balloon ascents.

With given thicknesses of strata there was a critical minimum dis-
tance at which mirage could be obtained. For greater distances there
were three images, two direct and one inverted.

The inverted one was always larger than the lower direct one, but
only appreciably so when the distance of the object approached this
critical minimum value, for which the phenomenon known as “looming”
became evident. The second direct image is usually much the small-
est, being, except at distances near this same critical distance, so small
as to be practically invisible. This seems fully to account for the com-
paratively few instances in which the three images have been observed.
Multiple inverted images, as observed by Scoresby, were explained as
METEOROLOGY. 439

due to thin successive layers of varying density at different heights.
(Nature, XXVI, 167.)

In a third communication on mirage, Professor Tait called attention to
an elaborate memoir by Biot, who had anticipated him in the theory of
the curve of vertices, but had not made any further use of it. Other
points at issue between Biot and Tait can perhaps be settled by care-
ful measurements of the dip of the horizon taken at different heights
above sea-level. (Nature, xxvI, 264.)

Fonvielle states that during the month of January, 1882, a large tract
of country, including Paris, was persistently covered by an obscure
cloud, or nebulosity, such that neither sun, moon, nor stars were Visi-
ble from the 4th to the 26th. French meteorologists were of the opin-
ion that this was due to a mass of snow suspended in the atmosphere,
but as he entertained a different opinion he determined to test the ques-
tion by ascending in a balloon, which he did on January 25, when he
found that not a single flake of snow was present, and that moreover
the thickness of the cloud did not exceed 1,000 feet, although it ren-
dered the sun perfectly invisible from the earth. When at a height of
900 feet Fonvielle found the earth in its turn invisible, and at the height
of 2,000 feet, the cloud having been passed, and the sun shining in a clear
blue sky, this nebulous matter appeared to him perfectly homogene-
ous and without traces of crystals of snow. The temperature within the
cloud was about 41° I*., but above the cloud, about 28° F. Hoar-frost
formed on the balloon when above the cloud, but not when within it, and
he ascertained that the cloud was really formed of microscopic atoms of
water in a quiescent state, and he thinks that when such atoms are set
in motion they crystallize into minute spicule or hairs, and that these
observations go far to explain the formation of ‘‘cirrus” clouds. (Nature,
XXV, p. 338.)

Kopp, in reference to Fonvielle’s observations of the nature of the
nebulous matter floating over Paris, states that he thinks it more prob-
able that the cloud was formed by small drops of liquid water cooled
below the freezing point, but not crytallized or even solidified until they
come in contact with a solid body, when the surface tension of the drops
is immediately diminished, and crystallization ensues. “We know,” he
says, “‘from Dufour’s observations, that water-drops, if they are not in
contact with solid matter and are floating in a mixture of oil and chlo-
roform, and having the same density, may be cooled down to —10 C.,
and if they are small enough, even to —20 C. Hoar-frost formed dur-
ing hazy weather and with a temperature below freezing may be due to
the solidification of such drops of mist. (Nature, XXv, p. 385.)

In reply to the above, Fonvielle states that as he saw no signs of a
rainbow he cannot admit that there were any liquid water-drops in the
cloud. (Nature, xxv, p. 436.)

Kopp replies to the preceding, that no rainbow should have been
visible, for the minute particles were not rain-drops, but the minutest.
440 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1852.

fog-drops, such as optical theories show cannot possibly produce rain-
bows. (Nature, XXv, p. 527.)

To this Fonvielle replies that when Kratzenstein, in 1744, advocated
Halle’s opinion with regard to the vesicular state of the particles of fogs
and clouds as demonstrated by the absence of rainbows, he was misled
as subsequent observers have been by the fact that the intensity of re-
flected light is not sufficient to show the rainbow, and he quotes an
observation by Faye, in 1849, to the effect that an electric or other bright
light thrown upon a natural or artificial cloud will prove a convenient
method of investigating this subject. (Nature, xxv, p. 529.)

In 1872 the present writer sketched out the simple details of a plan
for observing the heightsof clouds at night time; it consisted essentially
in throwing a well-defined beam of electric or calcium light vertically
upward and observing from a neighboring station the apparent altitude
of the bright spot visible on the under side of the cloud.

To the preceding, Dr. Kopp says, ‘“‘ There may be difficulties in the
way of deciding, by direct observation, as to the form of the cloud-
particles when their globules are crystals, but since de Saussure and
Waller both record the results of microscopic observations it seems
possible to carry such investigations still further. (Nature, xxv, p. 31.)

The questions at issue between Fonvielle and Kopp have been inves-
tigated by Eloy, ayoung aeronaut, who, after having made an interesting
balloon ascent on the 7th of May, 1882, at Paris, has proposed a series of
ascents from La Villette gas works, Paris, in order to make special ob-
servations on the nature, formation, dimensions, movements, and loca-
tion of clouds. In the ascent of May 7, starting at mid-day, he reached
an altitude of 1,900 meters, where the temperature was higher than at
1,400 meters. He found a southeast current up to 300 meters, and also
again above 1,400 meters, but a northeast current in the interior.
(Nature, XXVI, pp. 67 and 72.)

His subsequent ascent, of May 18th, was made on the eleventh day
of a well-defined period, during which the prevailing wind was almost
without intermission a strong northeasterly breeze which had been
detrimental to agriculture. The sky was clear, deep blue, and the air
cold and dry. A large number of dense, small cumuli, dark, well defined,
with round edges, were seen carried by with the wind almost without
intermission, except during the eclipse, when the weather was magnifi-
cent. This period having terminated only on the 20th, by a total
change of wind, the observations taken may be considered as giving
a fair idea of the atmospheric conditions which prevailed during so
many days. These clouds were floating at an altitude of more than 2,000
meters, and very cold, the thermometer having descended abruptly to
4° and 6° centigrade. When crossing this cloud, the aerial travelers
perceived no isolated flakes of snow, but the air seemed illuminated by
sudden lights, as if rays traveling from the sun had been reflected by
minute icy particles. The balloon having ascended to the upper surface
METEOROLOGY. 441

of the clouds, and travelled during more than an hour out of the view
of the land, the aeronauts were unable to perceive the aureole round
the shade of the balloon, which remained visible during the whole of the
excursion on the upper face of the clouds. I explain this circumstance
by the fact that the cloud was formed by solid water and that the aure-
ole was less brilliant, the same relation between these two phenomena
existing for laminosity as between halos and rainbows. The aeronauts,
having remained at an altitude of two to three hundred meters from the
clouds, were unable to perceive the colored rings which were visible
to me and M. Brissonet, navigating only at a few meters above similar
legions of icy particles. It may have also occurred that our friends
were blinded by the light from the sun, which at four o’clock was very
powerful, and so detrimental to their eyes that before entering the
clouds they were unable to look fixedly at the earth to ascertain their
path. It isthe first time I have heard of aeronauts having experienced
the want of colored spectacles to inspect our planet. (Nature, XXVI,
p. 89.)

The effect of haze upon the telescopic definition of stars has been ob-
served by G. W. Royston-Pigott. He gives several illustrations of the
extreme steadiness and perfect definition of astronomical objects ex-
amined through slight haze, very especially the haze due to the London
fog. He suggests that the effect of haze is apparently to diminish
the intensity of refraction, but the explanation commonly received is,
we believe, that the haze acts by way of equalizing the distribution of
heat, thus diminishing the currents of hot and cold air, to which the
phenomena of scintillation are largely due. (Nature, xxv, p. 77.)

J.J. M. Perry communicates some data on the fitness of the climate
of Alnwick, in Northumberland, for astronomical observations. The
summary for one year (1881) is as follows (the review is rather an
instructive one, as showing the great amount of work accomplished by
English astronomers in spite of the climatic obstacles) :

Two hundred and twenty-nine nights were completely overcast; 51
were partially so (but of these 4 were too cloudy for observations) ; and
85 were clear. Thus, 132 nights ought to have been available for ob-
servations. Of these the definition on 54 was very bad, on 9 bad, on
14 fair, and on 2 very fine. Wind prevented observations on 16 nights,
frost and snow combined on 15, on 2 frost alone, and on 1 snow alone.
On 161 was absent from home, andon3 engaged. Total, 132. (Nature,
KKVS ps ol.)

XII.—a PERIODICITY AND SUN-SPOTS.

An anonymous writer in Nature gives a table of mean departures of
_ the monthly temperatures from their normal values for a hundred years
in England. He concludes that those winters which give a mean tem-
perature 3° in excess were immediately followed by summers warmer
than usual. (Nature, XXVI, p. 35.)
442 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882.

H. C. I’ox has investigated the laws which regulate the succession of
temperature and rainfall in the climate of London, with the following
results among others:

1. A cold spring is very prone to be followed by a cold summer, a cold
summer tends to be followed by a cold autumn, and a cold autumn has,
a slight tendency to be succeeded by a winter of low temperature.

2. Warm summers are generally followed by warm autumns.

3. In no fewer than eight out of the twelve months (that is, in every
one except February, March, May, and October), very low temperature
tends to be prolonged into the succeeding month.

4, If June, July, August, or December be warm, the next month will
probably be a warm one also.

5. Two months, June and July, tend, when very dry, to be followed
by dry ones. ' On the other hand, a dry August indicates the probability
of a wet September.

6. A wet December is apt to be succeeded by a wet January.

In addition to the foregoing there are also a few instances in which
the rainfall of certain months appears to be definitely related to antece-
dent extremes of temperature, and vice versa. Thus:

7. If August or September be warm, the ensuing September or Octo-
ber inclines to be wet. If, on the other hand, September or November
be cold, the succeeding October or December is likely to bea dry month.

8. If February, June, or July be very dry, the next month: has a
strong tendency to be warm.

9. If January, March, or April be wet, we may also expect the next
month to be a warm one. But a wet May or July gives a strong proba-
bility of cold weather in June or August respectively. (Nature, XXtl,
pp. 445, 446.)

Buchan has published a paper on the diurnal period of thunder-storms
in Seotland. There are two well-marked types of thunder-storms, the
one occurring in the summer months, and having its daily maximum
frequently from 1 P. M. to 6 P. M., and the other occurring in the winter
months, with its maximum from 9 P. M. to3 A.M. Stations in the east-
ern division of the country, where the annual rainfall is small or only
of moderate amount, have all, or nearly all, their thunder-storms during
the summer months; whereas in the west, or where the climate is wet
and the rainfall heavy, a very considerable portion of the thunder-
storms occur during the winter months, and these are nearly always of
short duration, and are the accompaniments of the winter cyclones of
Northwestern Europe. (Nature, xxu, p. 594.)

In a paper on the secular inequalities in terrestrial climates depend-
ing on the perihelion, longitude, and eccentricity of the earth’s orbit,
read by Rey. Dr. Samuel Haughton, of Trinity College, Dublin, he
shows that the two inequalities in question depend upon terrestrial
Tadiation only, and in no way upon sun heat.

Having noticed that the hottest and coldest times of the day follow
METEOROLOGY. 443

noon and midnight by an interval, often considerable, and in like manner
that the hottest and coldest days in the year follow midsummer and
midwinter by an interval often of many days, Dr. Haughton saw in
these facts a close analogy with the diurnal tides, which follow the sun
or moon’s meridian passage by an interval of some hours.

Using Ferrel’s temperature tables, Dr. Haughton finds the following
maximum secular ranges of mean annual temperattre for the respect-
ive zones around the whole earth:

Maximum secular ranges.

| |

4 | Northern Southern
| Latitude. | hemisphere. hemisphere.
|

| |
° F, | F.
0 0.185 0. 185

| 10 0.375 0.585
| 20 1.100 0. 875
| 30 2. 065 1.110
| 40 2.750 0. 985
| 50 3. 685 0.710
| 60 4.610 0.540
| 70 AROR 5 oiled seek
| 80 BNO oT WEES Tawa are

This table shows that the average maximum effect of the astronomical
causes involved in perihelion longitude can never exceed 5° F. in the
northern hemisphere, and barely exceeds 1° F. in the southern. The
observed great ranges of climate between the Carboniferous and the
Glacial epochs therefore required some other elucidation. (Nature,
XXIV, p. 93.)

At the Cincinnati meeting of the American Association for the Ad-
vancement of Science, held in August, 1881, Mr. W. J. McKee read a
paper on a contribution to Croll’s theory of secular climatic changes.

Mr. Frederick Chambers summarizes the sun-spot studies of Charles
Chambers, Brown, Hill, Archibald, Blanford, and Mildrum, and con-
cludes that the relations with terrestrial meteorology must be studied in
greater detail—which work he has himself undertaken. Commencing
with the daily abnormal barometric variations observed at several
stations in Western India, it was soon found that, as the time over
which an abnormal barometric fluctuation extended became longer and
longer, the range of the fluctuation became more and more uniform at
the various stations, thus leading to the conclusion that the abnormal
variations of long duration affect a very wide area. To test this infer-
ence it became necessary to compare the observations recorded at Bom-
bay with those of some distant tropical station. Batavia was chosen,
and, on plotting the daily observations side by side with those of Bom-
bay, the degree of accordance between them was found to be truly
surprising considering how far the two stations are apart. The monthly
abnormal variations were then plotted and smoothed down by taking
nine months’ means. The curves obtained in this way for Bombay and
Batavia were then found to be almost identical in form, but with this
444 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1822.

very remarkable difference: the curve for Batavia was seen to lag very
persistently for about one month behind the Bombay curve. Similar curves
were obtained for all of Archibald’s tropical stations, and for the sun-spot
ones published in Philosophical Transactions, 1870.

The general resemblance of all these curves to each other is very
remarkable; indeed, if the Mauritius curves for the years 1867 and 1868
be excluded, there’is scarcely a single prominent feature in any one of
the curves which is not reproduced in the others. It appears, then, that
these long atmospheric waves (if such they may be called) travel at a
very slow and variable rate round the earth from west to east, like the
cyclones of the extra-tropical latitudes.

A glance at the barometric and sun-spot curves is sufficient to show
that the irregular and frequent fluctuations of pressure are relatively
much larger than those of sun-spots. The prime curves were therefore
still further smoothed, and from this comparison it appears that the
epochs of maximum and minimum barometric pressure lagged behind
the corresponding epochs of minimum and maximum solar-spotted area
at an interval varying from about six months to nearly two and a half
years, or at an average interval of about one year and eight months.
From a comparison with the records of famines in Asia, it appears that
widespread and severe famines are generally accompanied or immedi-
ately preceded by waves of high barometric pressure.

If the conclusions arrived at from the above comparisons of abnormal
barometric variations, sun-spots, and past famines be admitted, it is
clear that they at once present the means whereby future famines may
possibly be foreseen. The conclusions are, briefly:

1. That variations of the solar-spotted area are succeeded many
months afterwards by corresponding abnormal barometric variations.

2. That abnormal barometric variations in the tropics travel at a very
slow rate round the earth from west to east, arriving at westerly stations
several months before they reach more easterly ones.

3. That famines follow in the wake of waves of high barometric press-
ure.

Hence, it follows that there are two methods by which early intima-
tion of the approach of these meteorological disturbances, which are
attended by famines, may possibly be obtained:

1. By regular observation of the solar-spotted area, and early reduc-
tion of the observations, so as to obtain early information of current
changes going on in the sun.

2. By barometric observations at stations differing widely in longitude,
and the early communication of the results to statons situated to the
westward. (Nature, December, 1880, xxi, pp. 84-110.)

E. D. Archibald, remarking on the fact that the British Government
has sent an observer to Leh, India, 11,000 feet altitude, for the mainten-
ance of direct daily observations of the sun’s heat, quotes the following
METEOROLOGY. 445

table of the departures of the annual averages of certain meteorological
elements from their normal values:

Excess of | Annualmean| Mean pres- | Mean pro-
Years. welts temperature | air temper- | sureof water ortion of bgt a a

S of black-bulb. ature. vapor. oudy sky.
° ° Inch. Tenths. Inches.
UG onco se ceaspeneds 17 —.76 —.29 —.104 —. 03 +. 366
SIGs cdssaeasccclseccn= 11 —.33 —. 08 —.017 —.20 —. 437
LET Secs anostonzbocsiog 12 +.19 +.17 +.011 +.31 —. 297
Tey odin boreaaseescasee 3 +. 44 +. 62 +. 020 +. 09 +. 566
PST peeetetee tare ane atel 6 —. 36 —,13 —.014 —. 06 +. 197

The above figures are based on the meteorological observations for
the whole of India, and are therefore free from all minor local peculiari-
ties. The meteorological conditions are evidently subject to much more
violent variations than are the solar spots; but Archibald and Profes-
sor Hill seem to regard these figures as favoring the hypothesis that
the sun radiates most heat to the earth in the years of fewest spots.
(Nature, XXv, p. 316.)

W.S. Jevons advocates the theory that there is some relation be-
tween the solar spots and the commercial crises. He gives in parallel
columns the number of bankruptcies and the corresponding year, as
follows:

Year. Bankruptcies. | Year. Bankruptcies. | Year. Bankruptcies.
2 ee eee eee eee
ASTOMS a eeeoceae nes 8, 151 UR ee chaanoesan 9, 250 LEV peepcoetane 13, 630
NSTC emecisaen sess &, 164 Tei oeeeeceeaseeice 9,194 MEY eScaocceo oe 15, 732
GY PAR AAR Sen Bae eS 8, 112 BTC Sclictoate closes 10, 848 1880) oie sate 12, 471
US (iecieeptee seen 9, 064 | LST ieaclenince ces 11, 247 PSSM ose e emesis 11, 632

(Nature, XXVI, p. 226.)

Dr. Doberck has made a comparison between annual rainfall (C)
recorded at Markree observatory during forty years and the relative
sun-spot numbers (R) of Prof. R. Wolf. He finds that the following
formula approximately represents the connection between these two
data:

Inches. Inches.
C = 46.492 + 0.05946 (R — 58:91)

But this result must be considered to be a purely local matter and to
be based upon somewhat insufficient data. The general agreement of
the computed and observed rainfalls is not specially satisfactory. (Na-
ture, XXVI, p. 367.)

Balfour Stewart reviews the results hitherto arrived at as to the
connection between solar spots and terrestrial temperature, pressure,
magnetism, &c., and concludes: We thus perceive how strong the evi-
dence is in favor of some connection between the state of the sun’s
surface and terrestrial meteorology, while at the same time it is unmis-
takably indicated by all elements that this connection is of such nature
446 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882.

as to imply that the sun is most powerful where there are most spots
on his surface. Add to this that the spectroscopic observations of
Lockyer and others tend in the same direction, as well as such acti-
. nometric results as we have been able to procure, chiefly through the
labors of Mr. Hennessy, at Dehra-Dhoon and Mussoorie. (Nature,
XX, p: 237.)

B. Stewart publishes the observations of the height of the river Nile,
deduced from a graphic representation of the readings above the zero
of the Cairo nilometer, made every five days during the years 1849 to
1878, whence he deduced the following approximate relative quantities
of water discharged by the river each year:

Annual || Annual Annual
Year. discharge. |) Year. discharge. Year. | discharge.
ees Re SAR Ree oSs ATRL |) SSR ee se eee aa - We GO lO ie cece aie ee 2, 284
BO sce see oe waste DORON ASGD Ss eam mise bie coats 2 OSB WLS. st weee soe 2,701
GO eee eee PUT ea tna em opeciocos+ 2 BOSE IP Ouliccemesssee nee te 2, 718
1h bye 55 6 bes soneodcce 2,078 | ASGO Esa a eeeciaet rote el Oval veo wiceece eres 2, 404
RRB ec oskececndon needs PA BEY) SBS A app ecsScrecoase ZRGD IN ledolwaciamctlelcieae cee 2, 142
Utshy le See cascoae Ose 2 4 2o S64 oe see eae ese met 2475 1 Ria eaten ama sees 2,317
PRG UE aRoscoonecoeaonnc PRN RUT BAR Rc ae oeeaecocs 2229) D8TS cee unc caseidewes 2, 463
1856) oon = sssiaeeeie cet aE CPBGGSS 2 susee <i etee 20m PLORO cieisiowe sion se eine 2, 541
a Sy ae Eocene 25016 s || SI SGiee ce sos acess Pav AUsiy || UY Rae epee setae aa 1, 981
VS58ssasesisccinesccemns 1, 736 | TSGSI2% rsa eas eee 2, 005] |S OeS cease seas 2, 240

Stewart formulates the following conclusions:

1. The curve representing the heights of the river Nile and that
representing the dates of maximum height are very like each other, a
maximum height corresponding generally to a late date of maximum
rise.

2. There is also considerable likeness between the Nile curve and
that for the river Thames.

3. There appears to be a maximum in these curves at or somewhat
after the date of maximum sun-spots, but they have more than one
maximum for one sun-spot cycle.

It would be extremely interesting if this comparison could be still
further extended. (Nature, xxv, p. 269.)

Prof. Balfour Stewart communicated to the mathematical and phys-
ical section of the British Association for the Advancement of Science
a paper on the similarity between meteorological and magnetic weather,
by which terms he designates the very variable alternations and beha-
vior of the magnetic needles. This is a repetition of a paper read before
the Royal Society, and shows that in July, August, and December the
declination range fluctuation precedes the corresponding temperature
range fluctuation by twelve days, whereas in February, March, and April
it precedes by only five days.

In asecond paper Professor Stewart deals with a supposed connection
between the heights of rivers and the number of sun-spots. He finds
that the Nile agrees with European rivers, and exhibits a maximum
about the time of maximum sun-spots, and predicts that for the cur-
METEOROLOGY. 447

rent year (1882) the maximum height of the Nile will be attained some-
what late in the season. (Nature, XxvI, pp. 448, 449.)

J. P. O'Reilly says: “ So far as I can see there will be a famine in the
Niger River valley this year, as there has been a complete failure of the
first crop from drought, and there has been no chance of putting in the
second crop from the same reason.

‘The regimen of the waters of such great rivers as the Nile, the Niger,
and the Congo, both as to quantity and periods of rise and fall, must be
closely related to the meteorological condition of the highlands of Africa,
so little known to us, so extensive, and yet so inaccessible to us for ob-
servation. May it not be, therefore, assumed that the comparative and
continuous study and observation of those rivers, as regards their vol-
umes and periods of rise and fall, would be likely to furnish the most
valuable data for the prediction and forecast of weather in Europe?
Thinking so, I have suggested to my correspondent the advisability of
keeping a systematic record of the rise of the river Niger, and, if possible,
of the water, with a view to their utilization for meteorological purposes.”
(Nature, XXvVI, p. 597.)

M. Brierley, of Port Said, writes that in looking over data of the
rainfall at Bombay and comparing them with the ebb and flow of the
Nile for the corresponding years from 1849 to 1880, inclusive, he was so
struck by the similarity, almost identity, of magnitudes that he was led to
copy them out, side by side. Within atrifling fraction the whole of the an-
nual rainfall at Bombay happens in the months of June, July, August,
and September, during which months also the rainfalls occur in the
head-waters of the Nile.

The great southwest monsoon which sweeps over the Indian Ocean
in summer months produces a like effect in both cases, inducing fertil-
ity and plenty alike on the plains of the Concan of India and the Delta
of Egypt. It may be mentioned that the lowest ebb of the Nile always
happens in June, and the highest flood about the end of September and
the beginning of October. Brierley’s table includes also Wolf sun-spot
numbers and the barometric departures for India. (Nature, October,
1881, XXIV, p. 532.)

b HYPSOMETRY. c GEOLOGY, PHYSICAL GEOGRAPHY, GLACIERS,
HYDROLOGY.

M. Faye has lately published in Comptes Rendus a remarkable paper
on the physical forces which have produced the present figure of the
earth. After remarking on the use of the pendulum in determining the
figure of the earth from series of measurements of the intensity and
direction of the gravitation force at different parts of the earth’s sur-
face, he draws attention to the curious fact that while the direction and
intensity of gravity are affected perceptibly by the presence of hills,
such as Schiehallion and Arthur’s Seat, or even by masses as small as
448 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882.

the Great Pyramid of Gizeh, gigantic mountains, such as the Hima-
layas, and great elevated plateaus and table-lands do not affect the
pendulum-indications in any sensible manner, except in certain cases
where upon elevated continents there appears to be a veritable defect
of attraction instead of the excess which might be expected. Indeed,
the observations are sufficiently striking to seem to point to the sup-
position that not only under every great mountain, but even under
the whole of every large continent, there are enormous cavities. More
than this, the attractions at the surface of all the great oceans appear too
great to agree with the distribution presumed by Clairant’s formula,
which is exact enough for most purposes. Sir G. Airy’s suggestion
that the base of the Himalaya range reaches down into the denser liquid
interior, and there displaces a certain amount of liquid, so that the ex-
terior attraction is thereby lessened, is one which, inherently improba-
ble, fails to have any application in explaining why the attraction above
the seas should be greater than over the continents. M. Faye pro-
pounds the following solution of the difficulty: Under the oceans the
globe cools more rapidly and to a greater depth than beneath the surface of
the continents. Ata depth of 4,000 meters the ocean will still have a
temperature not remote from 0° C., while at a similar depth beneath
the earth’s crust the temperature would be not far from 150° C. (allow-
ing 33 meters in depth down for an increase of one degree in the inter-
nal temperature). If the earth had but one uniform rate of cooling all
over it, it would be reasonable to assume that the solidified crust would
have the same thickness and the same average density all overit. Itis
therefore argued that below the primitive oceans the earth’s crust as-
sumed a definite solid thickness before the continents, and that in con-
tracting, these thicker portions exercised a pressure upon the fluid
nucleus tending to elevate still further the continents. This hypothesis,
M. Faye thinks, will moreover explain the unequal distribution of land
“and sea around the two poles; the general rise and fall of continents
being determined by the excess of density of the crust below the oceans,
and by the lines or points of least resistance to internal pressure being
at the middle of continents or at the margin of the oceans. (Nature,
XXII, p. 206.)

Professor Geikie has made an interesting contribution to the precise
measurement of the rate at which the exposed surfaces of different kinds
of rock are removed in the processes of weathering. The important in-
fluence of the atmosphere in geological problems needs elucidation from
all sides, and it occurred to him that data of at least a provisional value
might be obtained from an examination of tombstones freely exposed to
the air in graveyards in cases where their dates remained still legible
or might be otherwise ascertained. He accordingly paid attention to
the older burial grounds in Edinburgh, and has gathered together some
facts which have sufficient interest and novelty to render it desirable
METEOROLOGY. 449

that others should make similar studies as to the preservation and
destruction of such stones. (Nature, XXII, p. 104).

Prof. F. Forel has published in the “Archives” of Geneva several
memoirs on the variations in the dimensions of the glacier of the Rhone-
and shows that very large changes may be due not to any great varia,
tions of temperature but to small changes in the local distribution of
snow and rain. Again, any change in the latter affects first the thick-
ness of the glacier and eventually its length, but the latter effect is
specially felt only when the immense snow-slides that feed the upper
end of the glacier have after a long time worked their way down to the
lower end, so that the location of the end of a glacier and its thickness
depend largely upon the snowfall of fifty or one hundred years ago.
(Nature, XXv, p. 184.)

Forel has published investigations on the phenomena of glaciers. He
concludes that molecular affinity is constantly operating to increase the
growth of the so-called crystalline grains of the glacier, at the expense
of the water which permeates the capillary fissures; such grains increase
from the size of a small nut at the upper end of the glacier to the size
of a hen’s egg at the lower end, the increase of volume being 44 per
cent. annually. (Nature, XxvI, p. 89.)

Naturen, for February, 1882, contains an account of the movements of
_the Norwegian glaciers during the past two centuries. It would appear
that the vast system of Justedal glaciers have generally been retreating
since 1750, whereas up to that time they had been advancing rapidly.
In fact, in general the winters were milder during the latter half of the
last century. At the present time the glaciers are generally advancing
again. (Nature, Xxv, p. 449.)

Woeikoff has published an interesting paper on the glacial period
in the last issue of the Zeitschrift of the Berlin Geographical Society
(Vol. xvi, fase. 3). It is well established now that for the formation of
glaciers not only a sufficiently low temperature is necessary, but also a
sufficient supply of moisture in the atmosphere. Thus, at the Woznesen-
sky gold mine, which lies at a height of 920 meters and has a mean tem-
perature of —9° C., but a rather dry climate, we have no glaciers,
nor in the Verkhoyansk Mountains, where the mean temperature is as
low as —15°.6, and the temperature of January is —48°.6. To show
these differences Dr. Woeikoff prepares a table of the temperatures at
the lowest ends of glaciers, and we see from his figures that in Western
Norway, at the end of the Justedal glacier (400 meters high), the mean
temperature is 4°.8 C.; it is 5°.8 at the end of the Mont Blane gla-
ciers (1,099 meters); 6°.8 at the end of the Karakorum glacier, in Tibet
(3,012 meters high), and even 10° on the western slope (212 meters) of
the New Zealand highlands, and 7° on the eastern slope (235 meters).
In other countries—as, for instance, on the Mounkau Sardyk Mountains,
in Eastern Siberia (3,270 meters)—the mean temperature at the end of
the glaciers is as low as —10°.2, and —2°.4 in the Daghestan Mountains

H. Mis. 26-29
450 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882.

of the Caucasus. Thus the difference of mean temperatures at the lower
end of glaciers reaches as much as fully 20°. Besides, we see that, pro-
vided the quantity of rain and snow is great, glaciers descend as low as
212 meters above sea-level in a country (New Zealand) which has the
latitude of Nice and the mean temperature of Vienna and Brussels—that
is, higher than Geneva, Odessa, and Astrachan—whilst the average tem-
perature of its winter is higher than that at Florence. Further, Dr.
Woeikoff discusses the rather neglected influence of large masses of snow
upon the temperature of a country during summer, and by means of a
very interesting calculation he shows how much the temperature of
summer in higher latitudes is below what it ought to be in consequence
of heat received from the sun, and vice versa in winter, these differences
being due on the one side to the refrigerating power of snow, and on the
other side to the heating power of ocean currents. Ina following paper
he proposes to discuss the other causes which might have influenced the
climate of different parts of the earth during the glacial period. (Na-
ture, August, 1881, XXIV, p. 364.)

Woeikoff contributes to the Zeitschrift fur Erdkunde a second memoir
on the climates favorable to glacier formation, in which he clearly indi-
cates the principal orographical and meteorological principles involved,
in accordance with the recent progressof meteorology. Acursory glance
over the present condition of our globe shows us that cold alone will not
produce permanent snow and glaciers when vapor of water is deficient.
There areno permanent snows nor glaciersin the Verkhojansk Mountains
in Northeast Siberia, yet at the foot of them the mean annual tempera-
ture is below 4° F., and that of January below—56° F. The reason is
that the snowfall is but small, and thus the snow is easily melted in
summer. In New Zealand, on the contrary, owing to the enormous snow-
fall in the mountains, glaciers descend to about 700 feet above sea-level
on the west side (lat. 43° 8.).

At this height the mean annual temperature must be about 50° F.,

and snowfall and frost are of rare occurrence even in winter.. The a

importance of an abundant supply of vapor being admitted, and thus
the necessity of surfaces covered by sea, what temperature of the surface
of the seas is the most favorable to the production of glaciers? This
depends certainly on the height above sea-level where the névé is formed ;
but so far as we consider lowlands and moderate heights—say, below
6,000 feet—the surface temperature of the water should not very much
exceed the freezing point, otherwise the vapor evaporated from the
sea and condensed on the surrounding lands will be rain and not snow ;
thus contributing rather to melt the existing snow and not to form new
snow-layers. For lowlands and very small elevations a temperature
of the surrounding seas of about 32° F. is that which is most favorable
to the formation of snow, and if the last is falling in sufficient quanti-
ties to form permanent snow and glaciers.

The deeper and opener the seas are, the better, for such seas do not

a,
METEOROLOGY. 451

freeze entirely, as the winds and tides always break the ice which is
already formed ; thus seas of that kind have, even in the midst of win-
ter, a considerable open surface, which evaporates freely. The tempera-
ture of the sea surface may be so high that much more rain than snow
falls even in winter. Let us take an example: The seasurface between
the southwest of England and the south of Ireland has a temperature
of above 50° F. even in January. Supposing asaturated stratum of air
to rise from these seas, it would have cooled down to about 38°.4 F. at an
elevation of 4,000 feet, that is, at the level of the highest peaks of the
British islands. The resulting precipitation will be rain and not snow.
(Nature, XXv, p. 424.)

Woeikof discusses the influence of local topographical conditions on
the average winter temperatures observed at meteorological stations, in
Vol. xiv of the Journal of the Russian Chemical and Physical Societies.
He shows from the Swiss and Siberian observations that the tempera-
ture of the air is often much colder in the valley than on the mountains,
and that in general the annual range of temperatures is less on isolated
mountains than the surrounding countries. These peculiarities must be
allowed for, in order to obtain a true estimate of the distribution of tem-
peratures. (Nature, XXvVI, pp. 190 and 209.)

Nordenskjé6ld has published the scientific observations made on the
voyage of the Vega, which are made accessible to English readers by
means of Leslie’s translation, published by MacMillan & Co., 1881. The
Vega wintered at 67° 4’ 49” north and 173° 23/ 2” west. In this locality
the thickness of the ice was measured as follows:

Centimeters. Centimeters.
oD Ye, OAS Up ata ys ie eee ee a DG: May noes to eects Seren 162
Panels sons wee ee a Oo lume: ek se ee se nea 154
12) Ds] Oe le ti a OSH cUNe Oc ey. wee ce serene tones 151
J EN) Ol NS a Ag Se P20 Sully ks 2257. esate es aso wee 104
LER eR SR ge a Beha 123 | July 15:...... (fall of holes).. 67
ISAS TET Ld BSN Ca 128 | July 18 (ice broken up).
WACVPEDIRMI SS 2 ase atste a Se cote cto eins 139
RAN ol ee iciictis's slo Cais oie aisy sre U 154 (Nature,xxv, p. 204.)

_E. D. Archibald, in some remarks on the cold weather of Europe in
the spring of 1882, attributes this largely to the influence of floating
ice reaching the lower latitudes of the North Atlantic Ocean. (He
does not, however, make it apparent but that northerly winds may
have been the common cause of the low temperatures and the abundant
ice.) He adds, “Though I agree with Hann in attributing more impor-
tance to the tropical than to the polar area in influencing the general
weather of these latitudes, I think it very probable, on theoretical
grounds, that we are more relatively influenced by the latter area in
summer and the former in winter, and that just as it has been inferred
that the regular recurrence of periods of diminished temperature in
452 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882.

Europe is due to the regular movements of the ice in the polar area, so
we may reasonably conclude that abnormal movements of ice, especially
in the Spitzbergen area, are likely to produce periods of abnormal cool-
ness, such as that which at present prevails. In any case the moral to
be drawn, if we really do intend to solve the weather problem, is by
all means, to have a meteorological station in Iceland, and endeavor
to study the map, as we are fortunately able to do in India, on a large
scale, instead of merely confining our attention to the minute range
of conditions we are able to observe within the limited area of these
islands.” (Nature, XXvI, p. 198.)

In a second paper Mr. Archibald states that the cold spring winds
usually come from the east and north, whereby the movable ice causes
a high pressure and a low temperature. (Nature, XXVI, p. 222.)

Mr. James B. Francis, president of the American Society of Civil
Engineers, gave the results of his observations, during forty years, of
anchorice. ‘A frequent inconvenience in the use of water-power in cold
climates is that peculiar form of ice called anchor or ground ice. It ad-
heres to stones, gravel, wood, and other substances forming the beds of
streams, the channels of conduits, and orifices through which water is
drawn, sometimes raising the level of water-courses many feet by its ac-
cumulation on the bed, and entirely closing small orifices through which
water is drawn for industrial purposes. Ihave been for many years in
a position to observe its effects, and the conditions under which it is
formed. The essential conditions are that the temperature of the water
is at its freezing point, and that of the air below that point; the surface
of the water must be exposed to the air, and there must be a current of
water.

‘“‘ The ice is formed in small needles on the surface, which would remain
there and form a sheet, if the surface were not so much agitated that
the water at the top and bottom are continually interchanging their
places, and intermixing. When resting at the bottom the crystals
unite by regelation, and anchor ice is formed a considerable distance
down stream below where the ice needles first form.” (Nature, July,
1881, XXIV, p. 302.)

R. Gordon, the executive engineer of the embankment works of the
Irrawaddy, has published a valuable monograph on the hydrography of
that river, and the hydraulic works. The book is, of course, mainly
occupied with the subject of connection between height of water or
total discharge and the peculiarities of the river, and the rainfall. Es-
pecially interesting is the series of seventy or eighty consecutive days
of complete measurements of the discharge at three sites in the delta.
Records of the floods of the Irrawaddy for past years are insufficient
to deduce anything like periodic regularity that has been proven in
some other rivers. (Nature, XXVI, p. 172.)

Professor Harlacher has constructed a current meter, which gives
the velocities at any depth in the shortest possible time, making a con-
METEOROLOGY. 453

tinuous record on a sheet of paper, if required. Full details of the
apparatus are given in Nature, Vol. xxv1, p. 494, and in the Proceed-
ings of the Institute of Civil Bngincers.

Tillo has published in the Nautical Review (Morskoi Sbornik) an in-
teresting paper on the slopes and ranges between high and low water
in the rivers of European Russia. For the Volga the range is 12 feet
at Astrachan, and the average range throughout the whole length of
the river is 33.6 feet. For the Duna the range is 9 feet at Riga, and
25.2 feet on the average for the whole river. (Nature, XXVI, p. 543.)

Mr. G. H. Darwin states that a misprint in a tidal report of 1872 has
affected all the reductions of tides since that time, and in place of re-
peating the laborious computations he endeavors to compute the maxi-
mum effect which this error can have produced. His memoir is said
to have contained suggestions of a new method of procedure of the
harmonic analysis of the tides of long periods. (Nature, xxyI, p. 465.)

Yornol has published the chemistry of the Norwegian North Atlan-
tic expedition, in which he discusses the quantity of air and carbonic-
acid gas, and of the salt in the sea water; his apparatus for obtaining
samples at any depth was invented by Captain. Wills. The apparatus
for boiling out the gases was that recommended by Jacobsen, with
the addition of a beautiful slide valve invented by Dr. Behrens. Ninety-
four samples of air extracted from water taken at various depths give the
volume of oxygen varying between 33.7 and 36.7 for the service water.
He finds the lowest oxygen 33.64, and the highest 34.14. The results of
the “Challenger” observations were 35.01 and 32.35. (Nature, xxv,
p. 338.)

Dr. Tomoe states, in reference to the effect of depth on the oxygen,
‘The proportion, which at the surface is 35.3 per cent., diminishes at
first rapidly, then slowly, to 32.5 per cent. at a depth of 300 fathoms,
after which it keeps constant.” Buchanan remarks that the percentage
of oxygen must depend largely upon the time elapsed since the water
of the respective depths was in contact with the atmosphere. As to
the carbonic acid Tomoe finds 52.78 milligrams per liter of water pres-
ent in the carbonates, and 43.64 milligrams present in the bicarbonates
contained in the sea water. He gives an elaborate table of the expan-
sion of sea water with temperature. The quantity of solid residue in
sea water is shown upon charts that clearly demonstrate the distri-
bution of the water from the Atlantic and the Polar regions. In gen-
eral, Tomoe’s work must be recognized as giving a great impetus to
the chemical study of sea water. (Nature, xxv, p. 411.)

d CLIMATE AND BIOLOGY.

Dr. T. L. Whitehead has published his researches based on fifty years’
consecutive observation on the climate of Ventnor, in the Isle of Wight,
and the diseases peculiar to the climate of that locality, thereby mak-
454 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1982.

ing important contributions to the work of the late Dr. Mont. (Nature,
XXV, p. 34.)

Tyndall’s essays on the floating matter of the air have been repub-
lished in convenient form, and should serve to stimulate research. In
this important field meteorological observers can probably best promote
the study of the relations of climate to disease by regarding or preserv-
ing daily results of observations upon atmospheric dust. (Nature, xxv,
p- 6.)

Professor Frankland, in an interesting lecture on climate of town and
country, explains the chief things affecting climate, such as the direct
sunshine, and especially the fact that the warmth of the air, as distin-
guished from the sunshine, depends, first, upon the nature of the sur-
face of the land and the presence of the ocean, and, secondly, upon
the absorption by the atmosphere, by invisible aqueous vapor, by clouds,
fog, dust, and smoke. He especially dwelt upon the nature of London
smoke fogs due to the imperfect burning of bituminous coal, and in -
ordinary grates rather than in the factory furnaces. Hesays that were
aqueous vapor alone in the air it would never produce fog, but condense
at once to large particles and at once fall as rain; when, however, dust
or smoke particles are present in the air the minute spherules of fog are
immediately formed around them as nuclei. He thinks that a law for-
bidding the importation of bituminous coal, and requiring the use of
either coke or smokeless coal or gas, is the only method of preventing
the London fogs that seriously injure the health of the inhabitants.
(Nature, XXVI, p. 382.)

Cyon communicates to the Paris Academy the results of experiments
on the action of high atmospheric pressure on the animal organism. He
finds that oxygen is not a special poison for the organism. Animals
die at high atmospheric pressure simply because the carbonic acid (the
chief excitant of the vasomotor and respiratory centers), diminishes con-
siderably the circulation and respiration, stopping the former because of
too great lowering of blood pressure, and the latter because of apnea.
The heart-beats are accelerated for the same reasons; the oxygen in-
creases the action of the accelerating nerves, while the moderating
action of the pneumogastric nerves is lessened through failure of car-
bonic acid. (Nature, xxv, p. 428.)

J. K. Clark states that since 1878 observations have been regularly
made at thirty stations in Great Britain on the first appearance of buds,
flowers, &c., of a selected series of thirty flowers. The detailed results
have been published in the Natural History Journal. The averages for
all these 900 observations of thirty plants at thirty stations give an accu-
rate method of comparing the climates of the respective years. These
averages are as follows, reckoning by days from January 1 onward: For
1878, 93; 1879, 115; 18380,103; 1881, 111; mean of all, 105.3. He con-
cludes that the weather during a given period is of less effect than that of
the preceding months. It is to be earnestly recommended to amateur
METEOROLOGY. 455

meteorologists and lovers of botany that they keep a close and extensive
record of the budding and blossoming of plants and buds in their neigh-
borhood. (Nature, Xxv, p. 553.)

Dr. Church communicates to the Royal Horticultural Society the
results of experiments he has had made at Cirencester during the last
fifteen years to ascertain the amount of salt in the rain brought by
autumnal gales, especially from the southwest. He found from 5 to 7
grains per gallon, while the ordinary amount was only 5 grains. The
average winter amount was but slightly in excess of the average sum-
mer quantity. He noticed that in Oakley Park one side of the trees

~was severely injured, and that, if no rain followed for a few days after
the gale, the salt sparkled on the trees, even at a distance of thirty-five
miles from the sea. The salt abstracted the moisture from the leaf-cells
and formed a condensed solution, so that the leaf became completely
dried up, and perished. Mr. McLachlan added that salt had been ob-
served on windows at Lewisham, as at Croydon, and elsewhere. Sir J.
D. Hooker remarked that Dalton was the first to record a similar fact at
the beginning of this century. With regard to beeches withstanding the
gale better than oaks, as mentioned at the last meeting, it was elicited
that they were unhurt at Kew and Valewood, Haselmere, but at Ciren-
cester, in Dorsetshire, and Cornwall, they suffered severely. Mr. Black-
moor exhibited foliage of pears, &c., from Teddington, some of which
was quite unhurt; of other trees growing adjacent to them the leaves
were much injured. Vines and peaches showed similar differences. He
suggested that it could not be salt in thiscase. The opinion generally
entertained was that such discrimination was due to the trees being rel-
atively hardy and less hardy. (Nature, xxvI1, 191.)

Rey. G. Henslow at the recent meeting of the Horticultural Society
gave an account of the progress he had made in compiling statistics for
a report on the meteorological phenomena of severe winters, and the
consequent injury to plants. He had obtained particulars of severe
winters from A. D. 220 to 1880; but those during which destruction
of and injuries to plants had been specially recorded were the follow-
ing eight: 185152, 185253, 18596061, 186465, 1878~79, 1879~80,
1880-81. He had collected all the information he had at present been
able to find with reference to these winters, and had drawn up first a
short account of the principal meteorological phenomena of the year
preceding each winter, as well as of the winter itself, as the behavior of
a plant under frost so much depends upon its previous condition; in
each case his tables give détails of injuries to and losses of plant over
as many places in the British Isles as possible. The importance of
registering meteorological phenomena and the losses in several winters
lay in the fact that the conditions of the winters respectively differed
in many ways from one another. The consequence was that the im-
mediate cause of plants succumbing to frost was not always the same.
There would be an introduction, dealing with several interesting mat-
456 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 188.

ters bearing on meteorology and plant injuries, and he proposed com-
pleting it with copious indices, so that no difficulty would be met in
finding the exact behavior of every plant in any country and in any
winter. A discussion followed, in which the great importance of elabo-
rating the report as fully as possible, and of speedily publishing it, were
insisted on. (Nature, XXV, 452.)

Professor Hunfalvi, as president of the physical section of the Hun-
garian Association for the Advancement of Science, made an important
address upon the meteorology and forestry of Hungary. Owing to the
immense consumption of wood for fuel in that country the destruction
of the forest is proceeding in quantity. (Nature, XXVI, p. 457.)

Cornu has studied the direct absorption of atmospheric vapors and
gases by the epidermis of the leaves and stems of plants, and finds that
such absorption takes place directly without the necessity of a previous
solution in water. Thus, growing grapes were exposed to the vapors of
heavy oils distilled from coal tar, and the sense of taste easily detected
the empyreumatic substances in the interior of the pulp and the pedun-
cle. (Nature, XXv, 544.)

A. H. Swinton makes out a relation between sun-spot cycles and
the appearance of rare species of lepidoptera. His observations are con-
tinuous from the year 1832 to 1875. For some species their maxima
coincide with the maxima of sun-spots, but for other species the coinci-
dence is with the minima of sun-spots. (Nature, xxv, 584.)

The effect of the temperature of the air on the pitch of the cricket’s
chirp is such that both rise together, and observations of temperature
and pitch by Miss M. W. Brook closely verify a rule given by a writer
in the Salem Gazette, namely: “Take 72 as the number of strokes
per minute at a temperature of 60°, and for every 4 strokes more add
one degree more of temperature; for every 4 strokes less deduct the
same.” We believe this is the newest item of connection between
meteorology and entomology. It converts the chirping cricket into a
natural thermometer. (Nature, XXVv, p. 229.)

e VULCANOLOGY AND SEISMOLOGY.

Rey. O. Fisher has published in his work “On the Physics of the Earth’s
Crust” a valuable collection of facts and theories relative to the structure
and history of the earth. Among other things, says Mr. E. Hill, it seems
to be fairly well established that the contraction of the earth by cool-
ing is inadequate to the production of its greater inequalities. The earth
isnot so homogeneous as required by the hypothesis of cooling from a
molten globe. <A plastic or fluid substratum best explains many facts
of the present epoch. (Nature, XxII, 434.)

Many of Mr. Fisher’s conclusions are, however, controverted by A. H.
Green. (Nature, xxv, 481.)

The Seismological Commission of Switzerand have published, in French
METEOROLOGY. 457

and German, an excellent text-book on earthquakes, by Professor Heim,
and have received a great mass of information in reference to the earth-
quake of December 29 to 31, 1879. Forel states that it consisted of three
chief shocks and a dozen small ones. The first strong shock was experi-
enced over an ellipse 200 miles long and 100 miles wide, whose axis was
parallel to the main chain of the Alps. Its intensity at Geneva reached
7 on the scale of 10 proposed by Forel. The accurate observation of
time, intensity, and direction of shock is the one thing necessary in order
to advance our knowledge of the sources and causes of earthquakes.
(Nature, XXv, p. 251.)

Prof. John Milne, of the Imperial College of Engineering, Tokio, has
read before the Seismological Society of Japan a paper on the distri-
bution of earthquakes in Japan. His work is based on observations of
very many correspondents throughout Japan. He shows in a remark-
able manner how a large mountain range absorbs earthquake energy,
and again if instruments of ordinary sensitiveness could be used through-
out Japan there would be on the average at least 1,200 earthquake
shocks per year. (Nature, xxv, pp. 613, 614.)

Professor Milne publishes in the Japan Gazette a Japanese earth-
quake chronology extending from 295 B. C. to 1854 A. D. Notwith-
standing the frequency of earthquakes in Japan the native chroniclers
have always carefully recorded them. (Nature, XxVI, p. 17.)

Professor Milne says that, in 1879, he commenced a series of experi-
ments with pendulums, microphones, and other apparatus, and special
pains were taken to insure that the noises recorded were due to actual
earthquakes, since the apparatus was so sensitive that a small pebble
dropped upon the grass at a distance of several feet was easily heard
in the telephone and recorded by a swing of the needle of the galva-
nometer. In fact, one of these pieces of apparatus was converted into
a “thief detector” by arranging it so it rang a bell whenever tremors
were produced by the footsteps of persons passing through the yard.
The Japanese observers seemed to be animated by the hope that the
study of these small tremors will ultimately enable them to predict the
larger and more important ones. (Nature, XXVI, p. 125.)

In a report on the earthquake phenomena of Japan, Professor Milne
states besides the several seismic centers within that island there are
also several in the open sea outside that island. He describes the re-
sults of experiments as to artificial earthquakes, namely, the explosion
of dynamite, the falling of a heavy iron ball, &c. (Nature, xxvi, p. 464.)
PHYSICS.

By GEORGE F. BARKER,
Professor of Physics in the University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia.

GENERAL.

The year 1882 has witnessed. a marked physical progress, which is
nowhere so surprising as in the department of electricity. Of the four
hundred and thirty titles noted for the preparation of these abstracts,
two hundred and four, or nearly one-half, are upon subjects connected
with electricity and magnetism.

In his inaugural address as professor of. applied mathematics in
Owens College, Manchester, Dr. Schuster considers the influence of
mathematics on the progress of physics, tracing it from the time of
Galileo, the founder of mathematical physics, on the one side, and ot
Baptista Porta and natural magic on the other, to the union of the two
in the science of to-day. He says: ‘‘The most important of all the
functions of mathematical physics, and perhaps the only one through
which mathematics has had an unmitigated beneficial influence on the
progress of physics, is derived from its power to work out to their last
consequences the assumptions and hypotheses of the experimentalist.
All our theories are necessarily incomplete, for they must be general
in order to avoid insurmountable difficulties. It is for the mathemati-
cian to find out how far experimental confirmation can be pushed, and
where a new hypothesis is necessary.” (Nature, February, 1882, xxv,
p. 397.)

Roche, in a memoir upon the internal state of the terrestrial globe,
proposes the hypothesis that the earth is composed of a solid nucleus
covered with a less dense layer, partially liquid, perhaps, to a certain
depth. (Mem. Acad. Sci., Montpellier, 1881; J. Phys., October, 1882, LI,
I, p. 462.)

Sir William Thomson has called attention to a thermodynamic accele-
ration of the earth’s rotation, due to the action of the sun upon the ter-
restrial atmosphere. He concludes that, in the course of a century, a
chronometer B (regulated to sidereal time day by day and year hy year)
would be in advance of a chronometer A (regulated to sidereal time at
the commencement of the century, and keeping absolute time since) by
2.7 seconds in virtue of this thermodynamic acceleration, and behind it
by 25 seconds in consequence of the retardation due to the tides, the

459

>
AG60 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882.

final result being a loss of 22.3 seconds, agreeing with that given by
Adams. (J. Phys., February, 1882, II, 1, p. 61.)

Sherman has studied the effect of the support on the oscillations of a
pendulum. The decrement of the arc could not be represented by a
smooth curve, and, on examination, it was found to be due to small
movements of the stand not synchronous with those of the pendulum.
This resulted in one case from the nature of the ground on which the
stand rested, in another from the varying tightness of the joints of the
stand due to the dryness of the wood, and in a third from the vibration
of a clock on the same wall. (Am. Jd. Sci., September, 1882, III, xxtv,
p. 175.)

Jolly has applied the balance to the determination of the mean density
of the earth. To each arm of the balance a rod 21.5 meters long was
attached, carrying pans at the upper and lowerends. The weights were
balls of glass filled with mercury and weighing 5 kilograms. Two of
these weights were placed in the upper pans, and equilibrium obtained
by adding weights, the displacement being observed by means of a
mirror, scale, and telescope. One of the weights being transferred
to the lower pan, its weight was found to be increased by 31.715
milligrams. Introducing, now, a sphere of lead 0.995 meter in diameter
and weighing 5,775.2 kilograms, beneath the lower pan, the increase of
weight was found to be 32.059 milligrams, a mean difference in a series
_ of experiments of 0.589 milligram. From this the mean density of the
earth is calewated as 5.692, a number higher than that usually given,
but correct probably for the locality (Munich). (J. Phys., May, 1882,
LT. 4p.' 2513)

Wolf has carefully examined and identified the various standards of
weight and measure which are deposited in the Observatory of Paris.
These are: Ist, the standards known as ‘la toise du Pérou,” and “la
toise du Nord,” both in excellent condition; 2d, the four compound
rules of copper and platinum used for measuring bases, the pendulum
rule of Borda and Cassini, a meter and double meter in iron, and one
of the four original standard meters of platinum, the others being the
meters of the Archives, of the Conservatoire, and of the Commission des
Ponts et Chaussées, respectively; 3d, two of the four original platinum
kilograms, the others being the kilogram of the Archives, and the kilo-
gram of the Conservatoire; and 4th, the four-meter copper rule of Lenoir
used by Lavoisier, Borda, and the Commission of 1798 in comparing the
toises and standardizing the meter. (J. Phys., June, 1882, II, 1, p. 252;
Ann. Chim. Phys., January, 1882, V, xxv, p. 5.

Wead has suggested a simple mode of changing the gear of an ordi-
nary screw-cutting lathe so as to allow threads of one millimeter pitch
to be cut by it. It is based on the assumption that one inch equals 25.4
millimeters; which differs from the fact by only y;¢509 part. The lathe
is first geared so as to cut a screw of 20 threads to the inch, a gear of
100 teeth being on the feed-screw. Then this gear of 100 teeth is re-
PHYSICS. 461

placed by one of 127, and the pitch will be one millimeter. (Am. J. Sci.,
March, 1882, III, xxi, p. 176.)

Mascart has experimented with a new form of apparatus devised to
determine variations in the intensity of gravity at different places by
noting the height of the mercury column which balances the elasticity
of the same mass of gas at a constant temperature. It resembles a
siphon barometer, but the shorter leg is closed, confining above the mer-
cury within it, carbon dioxide gas. The longer leg is open and contains
a meter column of mercury. The author believes it will compare favor-
ably in sensibility with the pendulum. (Comptes Rendus, July, xcv, p.
126.) Inasubsequent communication, Mascart gives the results of some
measurements taken with this gravity barometer at various places in
the north of Europe, confirming his previous opinion. (Comptes Rendus,
October, xcv, p. 631.)

An ingenious deep-sea sounding apparatus has been devised by a
Russian naval officer. It consists of a piece of lead, a small wheel with
a contrivance for registering the number of revolutions, and a float. As
the apparatus sinks, the wheel revolves and registers the depth. On
reaching the bottom the lead is detached and the float brings the rest
of the instrument to the surface. (Nature, March, 1882, xxv, p. 471.)

MECHANICS.
1. Of Solids.

Greenhill has determined mathematically the greatest height con-
sistent with stability that a vertical pole or mast can be made, and the
greatest height to which a tree of given proportions can grow. He finds,
for example, that 90 meters is the maximum height for a pine tree half
ameter in diameter at the base. (J. Phys., July, II, 1, p. 337.)

Colson has observed that the increase of carbon absorbed by a new
iron disk when heated in charcoal over one already partially carburized,
is only apparent, being due to the reaction of the iron upon the carbon-
ous oxide. Hence, on heating, oxygen is evolved. For a given temper-
ature, therefore, he maintains that the coefficient of diffusion of carbon
intoiron is constant; at least until the limit for steel has passed. Silicium
diffuses with great ease also. A platinum wire, immersed in lampblack
which was proved to be free from silica, placed in an earthen crucible,
was found to be silicified after the whole had been heated in a forge
fire; and the lampblack, on burning, left a residue of white silica. On
longer heating, the platinum becomes brittle and acquires the composi-
tion Si Pt. If silica be mixed with the lampblack a still higher com-
pound, Si, Pt, results, having a density of 14.1, and fusing at the same
temperature as ordinary glass. The author believes that the silica dif-
fuses as such and not as silicium. Iron heated with a mixture of silica
and carbon gives a crystalline silicide of density 6.6, containing 15 per
cent. of silicium. Colson considers that silicium may be gaseous; as
462 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882.

Berthelot supposes carbon to be. (Comptes Rendus, January, XCIv, p.
26.) In a note following this paper Violle mentions a fact observed by
him in 1878, while melting some palladium, which shows the ready dif-
fusibility of carbon. The crucible used was of porcelain, supported in
an outer one of plombagine. After heating to 15009, this porcelain
crucible was so permeated with carbon as to have exteriorly the ap-
pearance of a carbon crucible. The depth to which the plombagine pen-
etrates is proportional to the time of heating. (Comptes Rendus, Janu-
ary, XCIV, p. 28.)

Marsden has made use of this ready diffusion of carbon in his theory

of the cementation process. He believes that the carbon in the state of —

impalpable powder diffuses into the bars of iron during the heating,
when they are expanded and softened, thus converting them into steel.
(Ann. Chim. Phys., August, V, XXVI, p. 568.)

Spring has submitted to compression the variety of sulphur obtained
in vesicles by Saint-Claire Deville, which is insoluble in carbon disul-
phide. Under a pressure of 8,000 atmospheres at 13° hard pale yel-
low blocks were produced, 4.21 per cent. of which was soluble in car-
bon disulphide and had been therefore transformed into the octohedral
variety. Hence the density of the vesicular sulphur is less than that
of octohedral sulphur. By obtaining the specific gravity of these biocks
at different temperatures, Spring measured the expansion and calcu-
lated for vesicular sulphur the density 1.960, the same as prismatic sul-
phur. It expands regularly up to 43°, then contracts again, so that at
80° it has the same specific gravity as at zero. (Nature, January, 1882,
XXV, p. 231.)

Kayser has studied the condensation of gases on the surfaces of solids,
a phenomenon to which he gives the name “adsorption.” The gases
used were carbon dioxide, sulphurous oxide, and ammonia, and the ad-
sorptive effect was noted (1) in the empty glass vessel, (2) in the same
filled with coarsely pounded glass, (3) in the vessel filled with brass
and wrought-iron turnings. By noting the pressure produced in the
vessel by a given volume of gas, the adsorption was determined. With
the solids given it was in the order: empty vessel, iron, brass, glass
powder. Sulphurous oxide was least condensed by the empty vessel,
most by the glass powder. On the empty vessel, CO, was condensed
equally with NH;; on the metallic surfaces equally with SO,; and on
the glass surfaces less than either. (Wied. Ann., XV, p. 634; Nature,
June, XXVI, p.139.)

Berthelot has investigated the absorptive action of platinum for
oxygen and hydrogen gases, and shows that a suboxide and two hy-
drides are produced by it. The so-called catalytic action of platinum
is therefore due to a definite reduction which takes place in presence
of oxygen and of hydrogen, water being formed. The inflammation of a
mixture of oxygen and hydrogen by platinum is due to the formation
PHYSICS: | 463

of the least stable hydride, and its reduction by oxygen, both processes
evolving heat. (Comptes Rendus, May, XCcIv, p. 1377.)

Debray has examined certain alloys of zinc with the platinum met-
als which are peculiar. That with osmium takes fire almost explo-
sively on heating to 300° C. The alloys of rhodium and ruthenium, but
especially iridium, suddenly evolve a large amount of heat when
raised to the same temperature. The author regards these changes as
physical, isomeric modifications being produced with the evolution of
heat. (Comptes Rendus, June, XCIV, p. 1557.)

2. Of Liquids.

Koch has determined the influence of temperature upon the constant
of internal friction of mercury, measuring the time required by a given
quantity of mercury to pass through a capillary tube from one reservoir
to another under a known pressure and at a determined temperature
The result shows that this constant, like that of other liquids, dimin-
ishes as the temperature rises, at first rapidly, then more slowly, accord-
ing to an equation given in the memoir. The numerical values agree
with those previously obtained by Warburg. (Wied. Ann., XIV, p. 1;
J. Phys., April, II, 1, p. 186.)

In the report for 1881, Bjerknes’s hydrodynamic apparatus was men-
tioned. Bertin has given a much fuller account of it, illustrated with
woodcuts. (Ann. Chim. Phys., February, V, XXv, p. 257.)

Decharme has repeated these experiments and has extended them,
using in place of pulsating or vibrating bodies currents in air or water,
either continuous or interrupted. Modifying the old experiment of
Clement Desormes, in which a disk is attracted when placed close to a
jet of gas thrown normally against it, by employing a jet of water, the
author finds a tin plate a square decimeter in area strongly attracted
when placed 2 or 3™™ from the aperture. With liquids only one disk
is required, and this is fixed, the jet being movable. When held 4 or
5™™ from the plate the attraction is very decided. This the author
calls a hydro-electro magnet. Using two tubes, one with a thick edge
and the other with a thin one, the phenomenon of an electro-magnet
with two unlike poles is obtained. Hydro-induction the author has
also produced. (Ann. Chim. Phys., April, V, XXV, pp. 554, 570.)

The extremely discordant results of experiments to measure the co-
efficient of diffusibility of liquids has led to new determinations by
Wroblewsky, using a photometric method. Using solutions of chemi-
cally pure salt, of three different densities, he finds that for a given
time and within the limits of concentration indicated, the coeflicient of
diffusibility diminishes proportionally to the quantity of salt in solu-
tion. (Wied. Ann., XvI, p. 606; J. Phys., January, II, 1, p. 39.)

Martini produces diffusion figures by the following means: In a glass
vessel two liquids are placed, of nearly the same density; as, for ex-
ample, water and a solution of salt or sugar. They are left at rest for
464 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882.

an hour. Then a capillary tube entering the bottom of the vessel is
connected by a rubber tube with a moveable vessel of colored alcohol.
As this alcohol enters the vessel through the capillary tube it rises as
a thin spiral thread, spreading into fine tree-shaped figures on reaching
the lighter liquid. If the heavier liquid be used in place of the alcohol,
umbrella-shaped figures are produced. (Nature, July, XxvI, p. 309; J.
Phys., November, II, 1, p. 520.)

Wrightson and Roberts have communicated further results on the
density of liquid metals obtained with their oncosimeter. They obtained
for copper 8.217, lead 10.37, tin 7.025, zine 6.487, silver 9.51, iron (No. 4
foundry, Cleveland) 6.88. (Nature, February, 1882, xxv, p. 355.)

The specific gravity of melted stee] has been determined by Alexijew
by Petruschewsky’s method. An open porcelain tube was immersed in
liquid steel to a given depth, and air was forced into it until it bubbled
up through the melted mass. By means of an attached manometer,
the pressure was read off; and knowing this and the depth the density
is easily computed. It was found to be 8.05, and therefore greater than
solid steel. (Nature, June, 1882, xxvI, p. 138.)

Angstrém has studied the increase in volume produced when water
absorbs a gas, using for this purpose air, nitrogen, carbonous oxide,
oxygen,-hydrogen, and carbon dioxide. For each of these gases the
increase in volume was proportional to the quantity of gas absorbed.
Calling the increase in volume which a liquid undergoes in absorbing
unit volume of a gas—the coefficient of expansion by absorption, he finds
this value to be for N 0.00145, air 0.00140, CO 0,00127, O 0.00115, H
0.00106, CO, 0.00125, HC] 0.00097, NH; 0.00077, and SO, 0.00091. ( Wied.
Ann., V, XV, p. 297; J. Phys., June, II, I, p. 288.)

Leconte has called attention to the very general error in physical
text books concerning the attraction and repulsion of small floating
bodies, and has given the true theory of the phenomenon founded upon
the surface tension of the liquid, and involving the two fundamental
principles of capillarity, viz, 1st, that the elastic ‘reaction is inversely
proportional to the radius of curvature of the meniscus; and 2d, that
the same contractile reaction tends to reduce the perimeter to the
smallest which can be inclosed by its actual boundary. (Am. J. Sci.,
December, II, xxx, p. 416.)

Plateau has described to the Belgian Academy a capillary arrange-
ment which seems at first capable of realizing a perpetual motion. A
capillary tube is inserted obliquely in distilled water so-that the latter
nearly fills it. Into this liquid column at the top dips the small orifice
of another tube, which reaches a little way in the same oblique direc-
tion, then turns downwards, the vertical portion being wider, and not
reaching the water. Suppose this bent tube filled with water. It then
forms a siphon, the shorter branch of which is immersed in a liquid in
equilibrium, while the longer descends several centimeters below the
surface of that liquid. It appears, therefore, as though the water should
PHYSICS , 465

flow incessantly through the siphon, and regaining the vessel be engaged
in perpetual circulation. Asa matterof fact, however, the water isdrawn
upwards in the vertical portion of the tube, until its free surface reaches
a certain portion of the oblique part of the same tube, when it stops.
The author accounts for these results by suction, exerted by the small
concave liquid surface between the two tubes. (Nature, April, xxv, p.
614; Phil. Mag., May, V, XItt, p. 379.)

aweonlowsty has studied nie influence which the quantity of gas dis-
solved in a liquid has on its superficial tension, and concludes that, in
the case of carbon dioxide, there is a remarkable relation between the
laws of its solubility in water and the superficial tension of the liquid.
This relation he expresses thus: Ist. The product of the surface ten-
sion a by the pressure P under which the gas is confined, is propor-
tional to the coefficient of saturation 8S, which corresponds to this press-
ure. 2d. The pressure remaining eran and equal to n atmospheres
(n being greater than unity), it results from the laws of solubility that

the quotient
S Pee gs
cae : Foy ha

diminishes with the lowering of the temperature. Experiment shows
that in this case the ratio of the tensions corresponding to these press-
ures diminishes also. (Comptes Rendus, August, xcv, 284.)

Sresnevsky has measured the cohesion of aqueous solutions of zine
chloride by the two methods of Quincke: 1st, measuring the height of
the liquid in a capillary tube; and 2d, observing the flat bubbles of air
on the surface of the liquid, covered with a glass. As a mean he finds
that the cohesions respectively of 8.00 mgrms., of 8.77 mgrms., and of
8.71 mgrms. correspond to solutions of 83 per cent., 46 per cent., and 20
per cent. of chloride of zinc. (J. Soc. Phys. Chim. Russe, XII, p. 242; J.
Phys., December, II, 1, p. 576.)

Elie has contrived an apparatus for studying the laws of the flow of
liquids in tubes, which is at once simple and sensitive. It is a sort of
Wheatstone’s bridge; the liquid coming from a reservoir divides and
passes through the two tubes to be compared. At the point where they
join the main tube two other tubes pass toward each other and termi-
nate in a flask, a thin film of metal being suspended between their ends.
If the two branches are identical in resistance, there is no flow through
the lateral tubes, and the film remains motionless. Hence when the
film is motionless the same quantity of liquid passes through each tube.
The same arrangement acts admirably with gases. (J. Phys., October, IT,
I, p. 459.)

A rheometer for measuring currents of water, at different depths,
has been devised by Scardona. The water current acts on two screw
vanes on a horizontal shaft in a case attached to a vertical rod. A flat
vane keeps this shaft parallel with the current, and at intervals it actu-

ates, by means of an endless screw and wheel-work, a lever attached to
H. Mis. 26—-—30
466 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882.

a rubber capsule at the end of a metallic tube, through which, and the
attached flexible tube, the resulting pulses pass to the portable signal
bell. The apparatus is compact and easily adjusted. (Nature, January,

1882, xxv, p. 290.)
3. Of Gases.

Hannay has made an extended series of experiments to obtain an
absolutely vacuous space and to test the hypothesis that ordinary mat-
ter, and not the ether, is the medium by which radiation is propagated.
He finds that not only is there a closely adherent layer of gas on every
surface, but that the gas seems, even at ordinary pressures, to penetrate
into or combine with the surface of the glass, and that it is with extreme
difficulty that even a portion of this gas is driven off, the greater por-
tion remaining fixed even to the softening point of the glass. In order
to avoid the very appreciable tension of mercury vapor, fusible metal
was substituted, the barometric height of which was 41 inches. Various
forms of Springel pump were constructed for use with this alloy, the
fusing point of which was 94°C. After the highest possible vacuum had
been attained, one of the bulbs was surrounded with calcium chloride
and snow, and the other interposed between a standard candle and a
radiometer; but no effect was perceptible. In a mercury vacuum of
ssoveooy Measured by the McLeod gauge, the Holtz spark passed; but
when fusible metal was used it failed, even when 12 Leyden jars were used.
The 12-inch spark of an induction coil also failed to pass. Nevertheless,
such a vacuum still contained air obstinately retained by the glass. To
obtain a real vacuum the author proposes glass bulbs formed of hard
glass without and soft glass within, so that they can be heated up to the
softening point of the latter and preserve their shape. (Phil. Mag., April,
1882, V, X10, p. 229.)

Kraievitsch has sought to establish the hypsometric formula by direct
observation, and at the same time to ascertain whether gases have a
limit of elasticity. Two baro-manometers were used, one on the ground
and the other on the top of a high building, or even on the summit of
a neighboring hill, their manometric branches being connected by a
long metallic tube. On rarefying the air in this tube the lower instru-
ment will always indicate a higher pressure than the other. (J. Phys.,
December, II, 1, p. 577.)

The same author has communicated to the Russian Physical Society
the results of his researches on the elasticity of air, showing that rare-
fied air does not obey the Boyle-Mariotte law, its elasticity diminishing
more rapidly than its density in proportion as it becomes more rarefied,
becoming equal to zero while yet the density has a measurable value.
It results from these experiments: first, that the earth’s atmosphere is
limited; and second, that our weights of gases contain an error, since,
however perfect the pneumatic machine, it cannot pump all the air
PHYSICS. 467

from a vessel if the vessel is lower than the machine; 7. e., if the air is
pumped from above. The author, by the advice of Mendeleeff, is con-
tinuing his researches upon heavy gases. (Nature, December, XxvI1,
p. 183.) .

Amagat also has experimented upon the elasticity of rarefied gases
and comes to a different conclusion. Hesays: ‘All that can be said is
that under the feeblest pressures that can be produced (one millimeter
or less, though I have obtained 0.2 millimeter) there does not appear
to be produced any sudden change in the law of the compressibility of
gases; they follow still the law of Mariotte, within the limits of ex-
perimental error.” (Comptes Rendus, August, XCV, p. 281.)

Delacy has invented a barometer which records automatically the
variations on an enlarged scale. The tube, which has a capacious res-
ervoir at the top, is fixed, and opens into a cistern nearly as long, made
of a somewhat wider tube. This cistern carries on one side an index,
and on the other a pencil working on a moving cylindrical surface. It
forms the upper part of a kind of areometer, the lower part being
closed and floating in mercury in a still wider tube connected with a
reservoir kept at constant level. The variation of pressure is marked
by the variation of the height of the mercury in the reservoir, and this
latter is to that of the total height in the barometric cistern (or to the
path of the float or of the pencil) in the ratio of the section of the cis-
tern to that of the reservoir (about a sixth in the author’s instrument),
thus realizing an amplification. (Nature, January, Xxv, 1882, p. 290.)

Dafour and Amstein have devised a registering barometer, now in
use in the Lausanne Meteorological Observatory, depending on the dis-
placement of the center of gravity of a glass tube containing mercury.
The form of the tube may be described as that of an L leading down
to a U bya vertical portion, the lower end being open. The tube
Swings in the plane of its angles on a horizontal axis placed above the
center of gravity ; with increased barometric pressure it.inclines to the
right, with decreased pressure to the left, and these movements are re-
corded by means of a style attached to the U part and applied to a
moving strip of paper. By a simple contrivance the pendulum of a
clock is made to impart a slight shock every second to the tube so as
to destroy any adherence of the mercury. (Nature, February, xxv, p.
374 )

Joly has described a barometer, the readings of which may be made
electrically at a distance from the instrument. It requires but two
wires and reads to one-fiftieth of an inch. (Nature, April, xxv, p. 559.)

Brown has given a résumé of the progress of the barometer and the
various forms it has undergone, in which, however, the excellent form of
instrument designed some years ago by Daniel Draper, and used in the
Central Park Meteorological Observatory, is not mentioned. (Nature,
July, XXVI, p. 282.)

Cailletet has suggested a new pump for condensing gases, in which
468 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882.

the cylinder is inverted and the solid piston is covered at top with
mercury, thus avoiding all waste space. Ateach stroke it compresses
one-third of a liter of gas, and its capacity is such that a condensation
to two hundred atmospheres may be attained. Lubrication is effected
by vaseline. (Comptes Rendus, March, Xcrvy, p. 626; J. Phys., October,
II, 1, p. 449.)

Amagat has plotted the curves of the compressibility of nitrogen,
obtained in his experiments and in those of Cailletet, with pressures
as absecissas and the preducts pv as ordinates. That of Amagat is a
smooth curve, while that of Cailletet has a deep point of inflection at
a pressure of sixty meters of mercury. Amagat criticises the appara-
tus of Cailletet as inaccurate. (Comptes Rendus, October, xcv, p. 638.)

Hautefeuille and Chappuis have liquefied ozone by subjecting it,
mixed with oxygen, ina Cailletet pump, to a pressure of 125 atmos-
pheres, the tube being recurved and immersed in a jet of liquid ethy-
lene, which cooled it probably below—100°C. The ozone was ob-
tained in liquid drops of a dark indigo-blue color, which may be
preserved for some time even under atmospheric pressure. (J. Phys.,
November, II, 1, p. 493.)

Neyreneuf has extended the formula of Bernouilli ‘for the flow of
gases through orifices in thin plates to the case where the flow is
simultaneous through two orifices at different levels. He has obtained
a very sensitive gas level in: this way, a new sort of chemical harmon-
icon, as well as new sensitive flames. (Ann. Chim. Phys., February, V,
XXV, p. 167.)

Ville has devised a gas regulator which is independent of the press-
ure. It consists of a U tube containing mercury, communicating on
one side with the space where the pressure is to be kept constant, and
on the other with the reservoir where the gas is compressed. If the
pressure falls in the former, the mercury rises in the tube and makes
electrical contact by means of a nickeled-steel wire, thus sending a cur-
rent through an electro-magnet which controls a valve, thus lifting the
valve and allowing gas to pass from the reservoir into the other vessel.
Then the column of mercury falls, the contact is broken, and the valve
closes. The apparatus used by the author will withstand a pressure of
15 atmospheres and controls the pressure within one-quarter of a mil-
limeter of mercury. (Comptes Rendus, March, XcIv, p. 724; J. Phys.,
July, II, 1, p. 327.)

Berthelot and Vieille have determined the velocity of gaseous explo-
sion through tubes. They find as a mean that in a mixture of elec-
trolytic oxygen and hydrogen this velocity is 2,810 meters, and ina
mixture of carbonous oxide and oxygen 1,089 meters per second. Curva-
ture of the tube did not change the value, nor did alteration of the
material of which it was made. The velocity was the same whether the
tube was open or closed, is uniform throughout its length, and is inde-
PHYSICS. 469

pendent of the pressure. (Comptes Rendus, January, March, Xxciv, pp.
101, 822; Nature, May, xxvI, p. 44.)

Colladon shows to his classes the resistance of the air in guns in the
following way: The reservoir of an air-gun is fully charged with com-
pressed air, and the gun is loaded as usual, the ball nearly fitting the
bore. Placing the barrel vertical, and closing the mouth firmly with
his thumb, the gun is fired by an assistant; the thumb remains in posi-
tion and the ball is heard to fall back in the barrel. Then, using the
same ball, he fires with the same gun and pierces a pine board 0.4 inch
thick. If the barrel of the gun is more than 32 inches long, and the
ball is spherical and nearly fills the tube, and if the operator is sure of
the strength of his thumb, the experiment is without danger. (Nature,
August, XXVI, p. 353.)

Melsens has made a study of experimental ballistics, with a view to
determine the influence of the air. He finds that the air which accumu-
lates in front of the projectile forms a layer there capable, in the case
of high velocities, of preventing the immediate and absolute contact of
the two solid bodies, especially at the point of impact, the incidence
there being normal. (Ann. Chim. Phys., March, V, xxv, p. 389.)

Stroh has repeated the experiments of Bjerknes on vibratory attrac-
tion and repulsion, but has made use of air instead of water as the
medium. Moreover, he has investigated the condition of the air between
the vibrating drums by inclosing these in a closed space furnished with
an alcohol manometer. When the phase of vibration was the same for
the two drums, the manometer showed an increase of pressure, the air
being expelled from between them; while when the phase was opposite,
the alcohol rose in the manometer tube. Further, the space between
the drums is crossed by lines of pressure practically identical in direc-
tion with those which Faraday showed in a magnetic field by means of

iron filings. (Nature, June, Xxvi, p. 134.)

Kraievitsch has shown that the rarefaction obtained by means of a
mereury pump is limited, the air being replaced by mercury vapor, the
tension of which is a function of the temperature but at ordinary tem-
peratures is 0.02 millimeter. To show the influence of cold on the
vacuum he made a Geissler tube with a cylindrical appendage of glass,
the whole being exhausted by means of steam, as in the case of the
water hammer. At ordinary temperatures the spark passed as a
luminous line; but on cooling the appended cylinder to ~2U° the light
became stratified and filled the tube. He doubts the possibility of get-
ting a vacuum as high as 0.00004 meter, as Crookes claims, since the
McLeod gauge measures only the elasticity of a permanent gas. The
author describes some improvements which he has made in Mendeleeff’s
pump. (J. Soc. Phys. Chim. Russe, x11, p. 335; J. Phys., December,
II, 1, p. 578; Nature, February, Xxv, p. 377.)

Chancel has contrived a simple apparatus for determining the density
of gases in order to fix their molecular weight as a control in chemical
470 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882.

operations. It consists of a flask of 200 to 250 ¢. c. capacity, whose neck
carries a lateral tubulure of small diameter, and is closed by a hollow
stopper carefully ground, which terminates in a straight tube carrying
a stopcock. From the side of this hollow stopper a tube passes, at-
tached to its interior, and long enough to reach to the bottom of the
flask. By rotating the stopper the opening into this tube may be
brought opposite the lateral tubulure. The volume of the flask having
been determined, the gas is introduced by the lateral tubulure until all
the air is displaced. The stopper is then turned, the barometer and
thermometer noted, and the balloon weighed, a similar flask being used
as a counterpoise. The results given show very considerable accuracy.
(Comptes Rendus, March, Xciv, p. 626.)

ACOUSTICS.

Martini has studied the production of sound by the flow of liquids.
He used in his experiments long tubes of glass, two to six centimeters
in diameter, closed at the lower end by metallic disks two to three
millimeters thick, each pierced with a hole in the center, the diameter of
which was equal to the thickness of the plate. On filling such a tube
with water and allowing it to flow out through the plate, sounds are
produced like those of an organ pipe. As the water falls the sounds
do not fall uniformly in pitch as with the syren; only a certain number
of definite sounds are produced, as is the case with an organ pipe.
Martini’s results, which confirm essentially those of Savart, furnish a
method for determining the relative velocity of sound in two liquids.
By noting the lengths of two columns which yield the same note, the
velocities are obtained, since they are proportional to these lengths.
For alcohol of 36° the velocity was 1,288.5 meters; for absolute alcohol,
1,232.05 meters ; for ethyl ether, 1,144 meters ; and for petroleum of den-
sity 0.800, 1,354 meters. (J. Phys., November, II, 1, p. 574; Nature, De-
cember, XXVII, p. 183.)

Leconte has discussed the question of the production of sound shadows
in water, which, as proved by the classic experiments of Colladon in 1826
in the lake of Geneva, are more sharply defined than when produced in
air. In 1874 aseries of experiments was made by his son, L. I. Leconte,
during the blasting upon Rincon rock, in the harbor of San Francisco.
He found that soda-water bottles plunged in the water about 40 feet
from the explosion were invariably protected when in the geometric
shadow of a vertical pile about a foot in diameter, while they were as
uniformly broken when placed on the opposite side. Stout glass tubes
placed horizontally showed by their fracture the lines of this shadow.
The author supposes, in accordance with theory, that the waves pro-
duced by such an explosion must be very short in order to produce these
sharp shadows. (Am. J. Sci., January, II], xxi, p.27; Phil. Mag., Feb-
ruary, V, XII, p. 98; J. Phys., September, II, 1, p. 420.)

Decharme has applied the principles of attraction and repulsion pro-
PHYSICS. 471

duced by the flow of liquids from orifices according as the walls are thick
or thin, to the construction of a tuning fork which he calls a hydrodia-
pason. It is formed of a tube of brass 0.5 meter long, 6 millimeters
in interior diameter, and 1 millimeter thick, curved into an elongated
U, the branches being 6 centimeters apart. On the convexity of the
curve is an opening through which connection is made with the water
supply. The extremity of each branch is bent so that the ends open
exactly opposite each other. To these, disks or ajutages of any form
may be attached. When the current of water flows, the fork takes a
regular rate of vibration and gives aclear note. In water the tone
given was la (217.5 vibrations), and the first harmonic was plainly heard.
(Comptes Rendus, October, XCv, p. 597.)

Pinto has studied the function of two ears in determining the direc-
tion of sounds, and concludes, Ist, that we are able to judge of the di-
rection from which a sound comes because it reaches one of the ears
first and then the other, the interval of time being longer or shorter
according to the position of the sounding body; and 2d, that the second
ear enables us to determine the direction in which the intensity of the
sound perceived is a maximum without turning the head. (J. Phys.,
December, LI, I, p. 561.)

Stanley has presented to the London Physical Society a paper on
tuning-fork vibrations. He showed that disks on the prongs of a heavy
fork do not produce as loud a sound when the fork vibrates as does its
resonator; that vibration down the stem of the fork does not, as Chlad-
ni supposed, depend on a vibrating ventroid, since a fork cut in the
end of a solid steel bar communicated sonorous vibrations equally well
to the resonator. Since to set a fork vibrating only one prong need be
bowed, it is evident that the vibration must proceed along the prongs.
A light fork, a meter long, shows the passage of the vibratious down
one prong and up the other. When the prongs of a powerful fork
are tipped with pieces of metal dipping in mercury, the mercury is
thrown into ripples which can be thrown on a sereen. (Nature, June,
XXVI, p. 166.)

Koenig has published in book form the valuable researches in exper-
imental acoustics which he has made during several years past. The
most recent and one of the most important of his investigations is that
undertaken to determine the influence of phase on the quality of tone.
He finds that, contrary to the theory of Helmholtz, there is a distinct
difference in tones containing identically the same upper partials when
the phase differs. The sound is louder and more forcible when this dif-
ference is one-fourth, gentler and softer when three-fourths. By means
of a specially-constructed wave-syren he has elaborately studied these
phenomena. (Quelques Hxpériences dAcoustique, Paris, 1882; Nature,
June, July, XXvI, pp. 203, 275; J. Phys., December, IT, 1, p. 525.)

Neyreneuf has contrived a sensitive flame without an inclosing tube.
This is attained by causing two flames to impinge the one upon the
472 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882.

other, or a single flame to strike upon a current of air. To avoid tedi-
ous adjustment, however, he prefers the following: A brass tube 25 cen-
timeters Jong and 33 millimeters in diameter is supported vertically.
By an opening at bottom a flame from a jet, having an opening which
is 2 millimeters in diameter, is projected horizontally across the tube.
By impact against the opposite wall of the tube, aided by the air cur-
rent, very pure sounds are produced. (J. Phys., October, II, 1, p. 461.)

Decharme has studied the vibratory forms of circular liquid surfaces,
and finds very close analogies between these and those of soap films.
They are excited and observed similarly, and have the same system of
nodal points. The determination of internodal distances is more diffi-
cult with liquids, since they are only one-sixth as great. But the laws
are the same; the distances of the internodes are inversely proportional
to the number of vibrations. (Ann. Chim. Phys., January, V, YXV, p. 112.)

Kolacek has investigated mathematically the theory of resonance, and
has demonstrated that the conductibility of gases for heat has only an
exceedingly minute influence on the number of vibrations made by the
gas confined in a resonator. With a Helmholtz resonator, making 198
vibrations a second, the sound is lowered only 0.152 vibration, an unim-
portantamount. (Wied. Ann., Xt, p.353; J. Phys., January, II, 1, p. 58.)

Hurion has proposed to determine the position of the nodes and
loops in an organ pipe by means of a tube introduced into the pipe,
this being in communication with a manometric capsule. (J. Phys.,
March, II, 1, p. 136.)

Serra-Carpi has made use of the microphone for tixing the position of
the nodes and loops in vibrating columns of air. Upon a membrane
stretched on a metal ring a small carbon microphone is placed. When
at a node a loud rattle is heard in the connected telephone; when at a
loop the sound is feeble. (Comptes Rendus, January, XCIv, p. 171.)

Leconte Stevens has combined the organ pipe with the sonometer,
forming an instrument which he finds very convenient for the exhibi-
tion of Bernouilli’s laws, and for the study of upper partial tones and
musical scales. (Am. J. Sci., June, III, xx111, 479.)

Bourbouze has proposed the use of a sounding board furnished with
strings, upon the back of which is a carbon microphone, as a telephone
transmitter. (Comptes Rendus, January, XCIv, 76.)

Hartmann has devised several new pieces of acoustic apparatus. The
motorophone consists of a shaft carrying an eccentric communicating by
means of arod witha membrane. It converts rotary motion into sound,
the pitch being determined by the speed, and the intensity by the throw
of the eccentric. A bell mouth strengthens the tones. The phonomotor
acts on the opposite principle, producing rotary motion from vibration.
In the electromagnetophone a piece of sheet-iron under an electro-magnet
has a point dipping in mercury; a current passing through the coils
and the point is rendered intermittent, and the membrane sounds. The
electro-magnetic membrane syren is Similar, but has a solid sliding contact
PHYSICS. 473

in place of the mercury, a driving wheel producing rapid interruption.
When a tuning fork is supported so as to be capable of rotation before
a resonance case, it gives a strong resonance or a weak interference
tone according to its position, the latter being higher. On rotating,
the former becomes the higher and the dissonance increases. A reso-
nance interference pipe is made by connecting the nodes of an open pipe
with arubber tube. By pressing this tube the pitch of the pipe is altered.
( Wied. Beibl., No.3; Nature, June, Xxvi, p. 188.)

HEAT.
1. Production of Heat ; Thermometry.

Haga has investigated the variations of temperature which are pro-
duced when metallic wires are submitted to traction. The wire was
stretched horizontally, one end being attached to the vertical arm of a
bent lever, the tension being produced by weights on the horizontal arm.
The temperature was measured by a thermo-electric couple, one of whose
elements was the wire itself, and the other a wire of another metal
wound round the first. A steel wire 1.6™" and a wire of German silver
1.5™" in diameter were used, the auxiliary wire being of platinum
0.08"™ thick. With a tension on the steel wire of 21.715 kilograms the
increase of temperature was 0.1054°; the tension of 17.134 kilograms
on the German silver wire gave 0.14299. The heating with the latter
wire was proportional to the stretching weight. From the data thus
obtained, Haga determined the mechanical equivalent of heat and ob-
tained for the steel wire 437.8, and for the German silver 428.1. ( Wied.
Ann., V, XV, p. 1; J. Phys., September, II, I, p. 425.)

Holman has suggested a simple, accurate, and ready method of cali-
brating thermometers, which requires one-third to one-half the time
of the method of Neumann, with equal accuracy, and is fully one-third
shorter and somewhat more accurate than that of Pickering. Two cali-
brations of a Baudin thermometer, using threads of mercury of 3 and
5 respectively, each with only one series of observations, requiring
an hour and a half for completion, gave results whose average differ-
ence at 9 points was 0.04™", the arithmetical sum of the extreme differ-
ences being 0.12™. (Am. Jd. Sci., April, II, xxi, p. 278.)

Michelson has described an air thermometer whose indications are
independent of the pressure of the air. It consists of a glass bulb 4™
and a stem 2™™ in interior diameter, the bulb containing dry air at a
pressure of about 100™™ of mercury, this air being separated trom the
upper portion of the tube by a column of mercury about 100™™ in length.
This mercury remains above the air, notwithstanding the large diameter
of the bore, owing to the resistance of the meniscus to deformation.
The space above the mercury is a vacuum. The pressure of the air in
the bulb is constant and equal to that of the column of mercury above
it. (Am. J. Sci., August, II1, xxtv, p. 92.)
A474 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882.

Michelson has also devised another form of thermometer of great
sensitiveness, based on the high expansion coefficient of hard rubber.
A very thin strip of this substance is fastened to a similar strip of
brass 5° long, 1™™ wide, and about 0.1™ thick. The lower end of the
compound strip is fixed, and on the upper end is fixed a fine thread of
glass, the end of which is bent at right angles, and impinges upon a
light mirror of silvered glass suspended by a vertical silk filament. When
the temperature changes, the compound bar curves and the glass thread
rotates the mirror. The displacement is observed with a telescope and
seale. The whole is inclosed in a double box, to avoid air currents. In
another form of the instrument the curvature of the compound bar is
made to bring the end near a metallic rod immersed in liquid, thus
shortening the colamn and diminishing the resistance. (J Phys., April,
LT, ir pal3s;)

Govi has made use of the fact that the expansion coefficients of mer-
eury and hard rubber are very nearly equal, for the purpose of illustrat-
ing the effect of expansion on the bulbs of liquid thermometers. ae
capillary tube of glass has a bulb of ebonite, the bulb and a part of the
stem being filled with mercury. No change is observed in the height
of the column when the temperature gradually changes. When the va-
riations are rapid the mercury descends with heat and rises with cold,
the original level being soon restored. The ebonite responds first, and
being a bad conductor, transmits its heat slowly to the mereury. (Va-
ture, December, XXVII, p. 209.)

Crafts has studied the conditions in mercurial thermometers which
produce a lowering of the zero point. He considers that the glass
after it has been softened in the blowing preserves for an indefinite
time at ordinary temperatures a condition of strain, as in the Prince
Rupert’s drop. When the glass is reheated, the mobility of its particles
increases and a contraction takes place, the result of it being the more
effective in proportion as the original temperature is the more nearly
approached. In constructing the thermometer this contraction pro-
duees a permanent elevation of the zero point, which may amount even
to 26°. When heated to the boiling point of mercury, as in filling, there
is a similar effect, but the depression rarely amounts to more than 2°
for lead glass. To remove this error, therefore, the author heats the
thermometers to the required high temperatures and then cools slowly.
(Comptes Rendus, May, Xcrv, p. 1298.) Subsequently Crafts has given
the results of his comparison of fifteen mercury thermometers with the
hydrogen thermometer, all immersed in the vapor of naphthalene.
Seven of these thermometers were made by Baudin and seven by Alver-
gniat. They were all of flint glass containing 18 per cent. of lead. One
was made of soda glass, by Miiller, of Bonn. These results are given
in tabular form, showing the correction required for every ten degrees
from 100° to 330°. For comparison, the corrections for thermometers
made of Choisy le Roy glass and ordinary Paris glass, from Regnault’s
PHYSICS. 475

data, for the same intervals, are given in the same table. When cor-
rected, the maximum error for the fifteen thermometers is 0°.3 at 200°,
0°.5 at 300° and 0°.8 at 330°. (Comptes Rendus, November, Xcv, p. 836.)
In a third note, Crafts discusses the exactitude of the measurements
made with the mercurial thermometer. (Comptes Rendus, November,
XOV, 7p. 9LO;)

Siemens has communicated to the Royal Society the results of the ex-
periments made with his deep-sea electrical thermometer on board the
United States Coast and Geodetic Survey steamer Blake, Commander
Bartlett, in the summer of 1881, forwarded to him by J. E. Hilgard, the
Superintendent. The apparatus was specially ordered for the Govern-
ment by Alexander Agassiz, and seems to have proved its reliability.
(Nature, June, XXVI, p. 190.)

Brown has given an extended résumé of the various devices brought
forward as temperature regulators. (Nature, June, XXvI, p. 114.)

2. Expansion and Change of state.

Russner has determined the expansion coefficient of several substances
by means of the weight thermometer. Sulphur gave from 0° to 109,
000147; 0° to 20°, .000160; 0° to 30°, .000170; to 40°, ...00178; to 50°,
000183; and to 60°, .000186. Soft rubber of commerce, from 0° to 10°,
000657; 0° to 20°, .000665; 0° to 350°, .000670. Hard rubber has a coeffi-
cient between that above given for caoutchoue and that for sulphur.
Different specimens varied between .00023 and .00041. (Carl. Rep., XVIII,
p. 152; J. Phys., April, II, 1, p. 193.)

Lebedeff has sought to ascertain whether the apparent contraction
of stretched caoutchouce by heat takes place in all directions or only in
thatin which it is stretched. He finds the latter to be the true hypothe-
sis. He has found the cubic expansion coefficient of the rubber to be
000687 when stretched and .000675 when in its natural condition. (J.
Soc. Phys. Chim. Russe, X11, p. 246; J. Phys., December, II, 1, p. 576.)

Hertz has studied the conditions of the evaporation of liquids, and
has measured with great care, by means of a special apparatus, the
pressure of the saturated vapor of mercury at different temperatures.
The values obtained are lower than those of Regnault. Between 0° and
40° the elastic force of mercury vapor varies from 0.00019 to 0.00632
Hence, at ordinary temperatures the elastic force of the vapor of mer-
cury is less than one-thousandth of a millimeter. (Wied. Ann., xvu,
pp. 173, 177; J..Phys., November, II, 1, p. 512.)

Cailletet has suggested the use of liquefied gases, especially ethylene,
for producing low temperatures. Ethylene liquefies at 10°C. under a
pressure of 60 atmospheres, at 8° under 56, at 4° under 50, and at 1°
under 45. Its critical pointis near +13°. When athermometer contain-
ing CS. was immersed in the liquid it indicated a temperature of —1059,
much lower than that of hyponitrous oxide, which boils at —88°. Spe-
476 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882.

cial devices to collect and use the liquid ethylene are necessary, which
are described in the paper. (Comptes Rendus, May, Xctv, p. 1224.)

Demargay has studied the volatility of metals at low temperatures
ina vacuum. The metal was placed in a glass tube 12™™ in diame-
ter, closed at one end, and heated in a bath of the vapor of sulphur,
mercury, methyl sebate, aniline, methyl oxalate or water, giving tem-
peratures of 440°, 360°, 292°, 184°, 161°, and 100° respectively. A
thin U tube of glass was placed inside the first, passing to within two
eentimeters of the metal, and kept cold by a enrrent of water. The
space containing the metal was exhausted by a Springel pump. Ina
longer or shorter time after the heating begins, a black deposit appears
on the bend of the U tube, which soon becomes metallic. Cadmium,
zine, antimony, bismuth, lead, and tin were thus examined, and it was
found that they were volatile, cadmium at 160°, zine at 184°, antimony
and bismuth at 292°, lead and tin at 360°. When the experiment con-
tinued for 24 or 48 hours, the deposit was considerable enough to be
weighed, being 5 to 15 milligrams. Cadmium at 184° gave in 20 hours
a deposit weighing nearly 10 centigrams. (Comptes Rendus, July, xcv,

pp. 183.)

Konowaloff has investigated the tensions produced by the vapors of
mixed liquids, including those which are miscible in all proportions as
well as those which are only partially soluble the one in the other.
(Wied. Ann., V, XIV, pp. 34, 219; J. Phys., April, II, 1, p. 188.)

Chistoni has given a historic sketch of the different theories of dew.
In his opinion the most efficient cause of the production of dew is the
evaporation from the surface of the ground, which has been super-
heated during the day and the temperature of which is maintained dur-
ing the night above that of the air. After a longer or shorter time, of
course this air becomes saturated. Contrary to the general impression,
nocturnal radiation plays only a secondary part in the phenomenon.
(Il Nuovo Cimento, III, x, p. 58; J. Phys., December, II, 1, p. 566.)

Troost has given a method for determining vapor densities at high
temperatures in glass by using for the purpose a bath of selenium
vapor, which boils at 665°. The glass must be difficultly fusible, the
capacity of the balloons being about 300 ¢. ce. The author obtained for
the density of mercuric chloride thus determined 9.37; theory requiring
9.38. For iodine, 8.57 and 8.53 were obtained, showing that its expan-
sion coefficient does not differ from that of air, while its compression
coefficient at 440° is notably different, and at this temperature the den-
sity diminishes with the pressure from 8.7 to 7.35. Sulphur vapor gave
2.94 and 2.92, while at 440° it is 6.6, and at very high temperatures it
is 2.2, showing a gradual decomposition like ozone. (Comptes Rendus,
June, XCV, p. 30.)

Wiedemann has described a new form of apparatus for illustrating
geyser phenomena. It consists of a globe of glass of half a liter capac-
ity, surmounted by two tubes, one a centimeter in diameter and 70

.
———— =

PHYSICS. 477

centimeters long, passing just through the cork and narrowed above.
The subterranean canals bringing water to the bottom of the geyser are
represented by the other tube, narrower than the first, which descends
into the globe where it is a little recurved upward. The upper end of
this tube passes from the bottom of a lateral jar half filled with water,
which is about on a level with the top of the vertical tube. The whole
being filled with water to a level a little below the narrowed point of the
large tube, it is only necessary to heat the globe with a Bunsen burner
to obtain projections of boiling water to a height of 2 or 3 meters.
(Wied. Ann., V, xv, p. 173; J. Phys., June, II, 1, p. 290.)

Violle has measured with great care the boiling point of zinc. De.
ville and Troost some years ago gave it at 1048°, while Becquerel’s de-
termination makes it 9329. In the course of other experiments, Violle
observed that silver, which melts at 954°, did not fuse in zine vapor.
He then undertook to determine the boiling point of zine by means of
a special apparatus, and has found it to be 9299.6, or practically 930°.
(Comptes Rendus, March, xcrIv, p. 720.) In a note, Troost says that this
value was redetermined by Deville and himself, and fixed at 942° as a
mean of 27 experiments. (Comptes Rendus, March, xctv, p. 788.)

Troost has determined the boiling point of selenium with a view to
use this substance for determining vapor densities by the method pro-
posed by Deville and himself in 1880. The temperature was measured
by air thermometers, with both porcelain and glass bulbs, and was
found to be 664° to 666°, or 665° as a mean. The author proposes se-
lenium vapor, therefore, because glass bulbs can be used in it without
softening. (Comptes Rendus, June, XCIv, p. 1508.)

3. Conduction and Radiation.

Thoulet has determined the thermic conductibility of rocks, defining
the coefficient of conduction to be the quantity of heat which enters or
leaves a homogeneous wall of indefinite extent during a unit of time,
traversing a unit of surface, when the thickness.is unity, and the differ-
ence of temperature on the faces is 1° C. He has given the preliminary
results obtained with his apparatus, which show the coefficient for glass
to be 2.66, for wrought iron 10.26, and for Viziile anhydrite 4.56. (Ann,
Chim. Phys., June, V, XXVI, p. 261.)

Gritz has investigated the conductivity for heat of gases and its re-
lations to temperature. He concludes: (1) that heat conduction in the
gases—air, hydrogen, and (at low temperatures) carbon dioxide,—consists
in the transference of progressive energy only, intramolecular energy
contributing immeasurably little; (2) that the relation of heat conduc-
tion to temperature is found by experiment to be such as Clausius’s
theory requires ; (3) that all results for gases and vapors showing di-
vergences from the values calculated from theory are without eviden-
tialforce since they give only the apparent heat-conducting power in
consequence of the absorption of radiant heat ; (4) that the divergence
478 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882.

of the temperature coeiticient of friction from that calculated from
theory cannot have for its cause (at least not alone) the decrease of the

molecular diameter with rising temperature. Wied. Ann. XIv, 232; :
y >]

Nature, January, XXv, p. 290.)

Dahlander has ascertained that the velocity with which a body cools
in a liquid is: (1) nearly independent of its depth below the surface ;
(2) is independent of the nature of its surface; (3) is dependent on its
excess of temperature; and (4) for the same body in the same liquid
with the same excess of temperature it increases rapidly with the tem-
perature of the liquid. (J. Phys., September, LI, 1, p, 435.)

Hill has calculated from data obtained by actinometric observations
in India, that the true absorbent of solar heat in our atmosphere is
aqueous vapor, the absorbing power being identical with that obtained
by Violle from measurements taken by himself in the Alps. (Proe. Roy.
Soc., XXXII, p. 216; J. Phys., June, II, 1, p. 290.)

Heine has measured the absorption of radiant heat by gases by
means of the expansion produced. The gas is contained in a brass vessel,
whose sides carry plates of rock salt, through which pass the radiations
ofa Bunsen burner. A very delicate manometer registers automatically
the variations of interior pressure. If air be used purified from water
vapor and carbon dioxide no change of pressure takes place, but if car-
bon dioxide be employed there is an increase of pressure resulting from
the absorption of heat by the gas. On mixing definite quantities of
carbon dioxide with air, definite curves were obtained, which were suffi-
ciently well marked to permit of the solution of the inverse problem;
i. e., the determination of the carbon dioxide in the air from the absorp-
tion curves. The results agree well with those of chemical methods.
(J. Phys., August, II, I, p. 380.)

Ferrini has experimented with the Crookes phenomenon, using two
similar tubes, one of which was exhausted only moderately, the spark
passing direct from one electrode to the other, while the other contained
air at the extreme of rarefaction. A Holtz machine furnished the elec-
tricity, tubes of rubber filled with mercury being the conductors. One
of these was directly attached to the machine. The other was adjus-
table near the surface of mercury in circuit with the machine, so that
when it was immersed a continuous current was sent to the bulbs, and
when out of the mercury a longer or shorter spark could be obtained.
When these discharges passed through the low vacuum tube, the phe-
nomena varied like those observed by Hittorf, who used a constant cur-
rent, but varied the rarefaction; being due to the increase of tbe resist-
ance in the vicinity of the negative electrode as the potential rises. The
resistance of the second globe was very much greater; but the phenomena
from one globe to the other, vary in the same direction in which they
vary for the first globe when the difference of potential is increased. The
author rejects, consequently, the hypothesis of a fourth state of matter.
(Il Nuovo Cimento, ILI, 1x, p. 179; J. Phys., November, I, 1, p. 521.)

—_—_——— so
PHYSICS. 479

Tyndall has delivered a lecture at the Royal Institution on the action
of free molecules on radiant heat, and its conversion thereby into sound,
in which he gave a résumé of the discussion on the question of the ab-
sorptive action of aqueous vapor and then showed the apparently in-
controvertible proof by means of the photophone of the correctness of
his early experiments. (Nature, January, XXv, p. 232; Ann. Chim. Phys.,
April V xxv, p. 177.)

Dufour has confirmed the hypothesis that in the radiophone the
radiant energy acts on the layer of air in contact with the solid body
without expanding sensibly this body. A wire of blackened brass,
stretched on the mounting of a lens, pressed against the lens a thin glass,
which gave Newton’srings; and it was observed that nochange took place
in the rings when the wire was subjected to an intermittent beam of light.
A very thin spiral of blackened zine terminated in a small carbon cone
connected with the positive pole of a battery and rested on a plate of
carbon connected with the negative pole, a telephone being in circuit.
No sound was perceived when an intermittent beam was thrown upon
the spiral. The increased effect with increased absorption in a gas was
well shown by putting carbon dust in dry air; a strong sound was
heard when the tube was shaken. That short waves also produce the
result was shown by using a bulb as a receiver in which hydrogen and
chlorine were set free by electrolysis. (J. Phys., April, [, 1, p. 196.)

Kalischer has observed that by using simply a selenium cell in the
circuit of a telephone, and without battery, a sound is produced when-
ever intermittent light falls on the selenium whose pitch corresponds t»
the rate of intermittence. The result appears to be due to light, since
it is not modified by alum or by water, and it is destroyed by colored
glass, except yellow. The cell should have a low resistance. (Carl. Rep.,
p. 563; J. Phys., April, II, I, p. 197.)

4, Specific Heat.

Strecker has determined the ratio of the specific heat at constant press-
ure to the specific heat at constant volume, of chlorine, bromine, and
iodine, all in the condition of gas, by comparing by Kundt’s method the
wave lengths produced by the same sound in air and in the gas, at tem-
peratures between 20° and 390°, The constants do not vary sensibly
with the temperature, and approach closely the theoretic values, 1.323
for chlorine, 1.290 for bromine, and 1.300 for iodine. The experimental
values are:

Sp. heat. Sp. heat const.

Velocity. Ratio. const. press. _-vol. ref. to air,

Chiormes 35 see? 205. 3™ 1. 323 0. 1135 0. 2139
Bromine; —-24--- 135. 0 1. 293 0. 0550 0, 2358
Lodine ss. 22 es OTST 1, 294 0. 03489 0. 2350

(Wied. Ann., V, x11, p. 20; J. Phys., April, II, I, p. 187.)
Thoulet and Lagarde, desiring to obtain the specific heat of small frag-
480 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882.

ments of minerals weighing from one to five decigrams, have devised
a simple apparatus for the purpose, the minute rise of temperature, when
the body, previously heated, is placed in a liquid, being determined by
means of a thermo-electric couple. (Comptes Rendus, June, Xcrv, p. 1512.)

Louguinine has described a new and improved form of calorimeter,
the results of which appear to be very satisfactory. (Ann. Chim. Phys.,
November, V, XXUl, p. 398.)

Violle has proposed an apparatus for applying the cooling method to
the determination of the specific heat of bodies when the initial temper-
ature of the body is between 100° and 500°. It consists of a small bot-
tle of thin glass, with double walls and a straight neck, a good vacuum
being made in the annular space. An agitator is introduced through the
neck by the side of the thermometer. (Comptes Rendus, June, XcIv,
p. 1570.)

Schuller has redetermined the heat of combination of water, in con-
sequence of certain criticisms of Von der Than. The oxygen and hydro-
gen meet in a combustion chamber formed of two parts; they unite in
the upper part, which is at 225°, evolving (1) M, calories employed to
heat them, (2) their heat of combination KE, and (3) M, calories corre-
sponding to the condensation of three volumes to two. The vapor of
water formed passes into the lower part at 0°, where it gives up M,
calories. Hence E,=—M, + E + M,+ M;. In this way the author finds
E=28810. (Wied. Ann., V, XIV, p. 226; J. Phys., April, II, 1, p. 192.)

Louguinine has published an extended memoir on the measurement
of the heat of combustion of organic bodies, giving a description of the
apparatus employed, the mode of using it, and some of the results which
have been obtained with it. (Ann. Chim. Phys., November, V, XXVII,
p. 347.) /

LIGHT.
1. Production and Velocity.

Kruss has called attention to the fact that if the screen of a Bunsen
photometer be moved between two fixed sources of light, there are two
positions of this screen in which the fatty spot disappears. Both theory
and experiment show that the true ratio of the intensities from the two
sources is the geometric mean of the ratios calculated from both meas-
urements. (J. Phys., April, II, 1, p. 201.)

A new photometer has been Conennoeea by Sabine, in which a eden
of neutral tint glass is used to measure the intensity of a given light
by equalizing it with a standard paraffin flame. To secure greater
range a set of diaphragms is used to regulate the amount of light com-
ing from the standard. (Nature, December, XXVII, p. 201.)

Crova and Lagarde have made an improvement in the spectropho-
tometer whereby the illuminating power of simple radiations may be
compared. The illuminating power of a simple light they regard as the
PHYSICS. 481

property which it possesses of rendering distinguishable upon a white
screen illuminated with it minute details, as lines, ete. If, now, the light
be weakened till they vanish, the ratio of the initial intensity to this
limit of intensity will be sensibly constant and is a function only of the
wave-length used. The light to be tested is therefore received normally
on the slit of aspectrophotometer covered with a strip of glass, on which
is photographed a series of fine and close dividing lines, their direction
being perpendicular to the direction of the slit. A pure spectrum is
seen furrowed by fine longitudinal striz. If, now, the eye-piece slit be
made to include any particular region, and the nicol prism be rotated
till the striz cease to be perceptible, a method is secured for compar-
ing intensities. (Comptes Rendus, xc, p. 959; J. Phys., April, I, 1, p.
162; Phil. Mag., January, V, XI, p. 72.)

Briicke, finding that objects cease to be visible at a greater visual
angle the more they differ in color but not in brightness from the
background on which they are seen, has made use of this principle in
photometry. A board, black at one end and white at the other, he calls
a brightness table. It has successive shades of gray between. To de-
termine the brightness of a colored paper, for example, he places a bit
of it before different parts of the board and notes the place where with
the shortest interval it becomes invisible. (Nature, June, XXVI, p. 138.)

Koenig has reported to the Physical Society of Berlin on a new in-
strument designed and constructed by Helmholtz, which he ealls the
leukoscope. It consists essentially of a cale-spar rhomboid, a plate of
quartz, and a nicol prism. Whena luminous pencil enters the cale-spar
it is split into two rays polarized in planes at right angles, which trav-
erse the quartz plate and the nicol. When analyzed by a prism these
rays give two spectra containing absorption bands, those in the one
being the complement of those in the other. The instrument is used by
putting in a quartz plate of the proper thickness and then rotating the
nicol until white light is produced. When different sources of light
are employed, different degrees of rotation are necessary to effect this
result, the relative quantity of different colors in different lights being
different. The angle of rotation for stearin candles was 719.20; for gas
light, 719.5; for electric arc, 79°; magnesium light, 869; solar light 90°.5.
The calcium light and burning phosphorus gave angles between gas and
the electric light. Experiments with the Edison and the Swan inean-
descent lamps showed that the luminosity increases much more rapidly
than strength of current, the illaminating power being increased sixty-
fold by doubling the current. The angles of the leukoscope increase as
the light rises; so that a curve plotted with light intensities as ab-
scissas and angles as ordinates is concave towards the axis of abscissas,
approaching asymptotically a maximum near 78°; an angle approxi-
mately equal to the angle of the are. (Nature, November, XXVU, p. 95.)

H. Mis. 26 ol

482 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882.

2. Reflection and Refraction.

Chardonnet has made a series of experiments on the actinic trans-
_parency of certain media, especially of the mirrors of Foucault. Two
methods were used: the first consisted in exposing sensitive paper to
the solar rays after traversing the medium ; the second required a lens
of quartz and Iceland spar and a prism of spar, the spectrum being re-
ceived on a photographic plate or a fluorescent screen. In this way the
various kinds of optical glass were studied, the results of which are
given. Silvered-glass mirrors transmit the more refrangible rays, giving
on the photographic plate a band from O to T; thus acting as a filter,
allowing obscure rays only to go through. In this way the author
obtained photographs in absolute darkness. (J. Phys. July, I, 1, p. 305.)

Subsequently Chardonnet has examined the spectrum of light re-
flected from various bodies, and comes to the conclusion that absolute
elective absorption does not exist; lampblack itself, deposited as an
opaque layer on a plate of enamel, giving a complete spectrum. The
substances tried were: white and black enamel, uranium glass, rough
hematite, polished hematite, diamond, compressed carbon, rough and pol-
ished, vermilion, gold, lead, nickel, Arcet’s alloy, copper, rough and pol-
ished steel, Prussian blue, green ieaves, and mercury. Among liquids
distilled water, fuchsine, acetosulphate of quinine, ammonia, copper sul-
phate, potassium dichromate, milk, ink, alcohol, ether, benzene, olive
oil; all of which gave a complete spectrum. The author concludes (1)
every surface reflects in variable proportions all the colors of the spec-
trum; (2) the reflecting power of a liquid is independent of the sub-
stances which it holds in solution or in suspension; and (5) specular
polish inereases only the total quantity of reflected radiations, the rela-
tive intensity of the different regions of the spectrum depending upon
the material employed. (J. Phys., December, II, 1, p. 549.)

Piltschikoff has suggested the use of a hollow lens for measuring the
refractive index of small quantities of liquid. After filliug the lens with
the liquid to be examined, the focal distance of the image of a monochro-
matic flame, placed at a given distance from the lens, is exactly meas-
ured by means of a graduated rule. The constants of the apparatus
are determined once for all, and then, by means of a simple formula, the
index of the liquid is easily calculated. The results are exact, the index
of glycerin thus determined being 1.47298 + .00001. (J. Phys., Decem-
ber, II, 1, p. 578.)

Boys has suggested a method of measuring the curvature of lenses
with a view to determine their refractive index, The principle of the
method is illustrated as follows: Fix an ordinary spectacle lens in a
clip with its principal plane vertical; in front of it place a card with a
small hole in it, and illuminate the hole with a candle flame. It will be
found that, when the lens is at a certain distance from the card, there is
an inverted image of the hole iormed on the card. When this is the

a i ts
PHYSICS. 483

ease the light leaving the hole and meeting the front surface of the lens
is refracted and meets the back surface normally. Most of the light
passes through; but a small portion is reflected back along the path
whence it came, and is sufficient to produce an image easily visible in
the day. By fixing a plane surface of glass behind the lens it will be
found that another image may be produced when the lens is about
twice as far from the card as it was before. The card is then at the
principal focus. (Phil. Mag., July, V, Xtv, p. 30.)

Bedson and Williams have experimented to ascertain whether the
specific refrac‘ion of a solid body can be obtained from that of its solu-
tions by applying the law of mixtures. Rock-salt, borax, boric acid, and
sodium-metaphosphate were the substances used. The indices cor-
responding to the three lines of hydrogen were measured for the three
bodies first named by cutting prisms from them; for the fourth by im-
mersing it in a more refractive liquid, and adding a less refractive one
until equality was obtained. The results show a satisfactory accord-
ance. (J. Phys., August, II, I, p. 377.)

Crova has given the formula of a varnish for glass, given to him by
Guinand, so that drawings may be easily made upon it for purposes of
projection. It consists of ether, 500 grams; sandarac, 30 grams; mastic
in tears, 30 grams. When dissolved add benzene until the varnish
flowed on a plate of glass gives it a depolished appearance. To give
a fine grain and a homogeneous layer, pour upon it a little petroleum
ether, let it partially evaporate, and rub with a piece of muslin until
perfectly dry. The coating may then be written upon either with ink
or a lead pencil, and is ready for use. (J. Phys., January, II, 1, p. 42.)

Demeny has given an account of the application of instantaneous pho-
tography to the study of animal locomotion as practiced by Marey at
the physiological station of the Parc des Princes. The exposure is made
by a rotating opaque disk, having an opening in the form of a sector.
With a strong light it may be reduced to one thousandth of a second.
An image is obtained with each turn of the disk, and since the object
has moved in the interval these will be neither identical nor superposed.
A white stone thrown by hand when thus photographed gives the im-
age of a parabolic curve. A white point attached to a carriage wheel
gives the eycloid described. (J. Phys., November, II, 1, p. 504.)

Stokes has studied the phenomena of the light border frequently
noticed in photographs just outside the outline of a dark body seen
against the sky. The sunlight, being reflected horizontally into a dark
room, is passed through a lens and allowed to fall on a phosphorescent
screen of calcium sulphide, previously exposed to light, placed nearer
to the lens than its principal focus. There is seen a circular disk of
blue light much brighter than the general ground, separated by a dark
halo from this ground, due to the action of the less refrangible rays
which discharge the phosphorescence. But, since the first effect of
these rays is to produce light, there is seen, when the exposure is very
484 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882.

brief or the intensity of these rays is sufficiently reduced, a greenish
light where they fall on the screen, which faded much more rapidly
than the deep blue, and after a short time became relatively dark. In
photography, as in phosphorescence, there may be in certain cases an
antagonistic action between the more and less refrangible rays, so
that the withdrawal of the latter might promote the effect of the former.
In a camera corrected for chemical rays, when directed to a dark object
on a bright ground, there is a sharp transition from light to dark for
rays in foens, but a gradual one for rays out of focus. Just at the out-
line of the object there would be half illumination for rays out of focus,
and the illumination would go on increasing until the full intensity is
reached at a distance equal to the radius of the circle of diffusion. If,
now, the rays of low refrangibility tend to oppose the action on the
sensitive plate of those of high refrangibility, acting negatively, just
outside the outline, the active rays, being sharply in focus, are in full
force while the negative rays have not yet acquired their full intensity.
At an equal distance from the outline on the dark side the positive
rays are absent, and the negative rays, having nothing to oppose, do
nothing. (Proc. Roy. Soc., May 25; Nature, June, XXVI, p, 142.)

~

3. Dispersion and Color.

Ayrton has presented a paper to the London Physical Society de-
scribing the latest form of his dispersion photometer. A concave lens
is used to disperse the stronger light, thus obviating the necessity of
putting it at a distance. The illuminating powers are compared by
Rumford’s method, the intensities of two shadows of a rod thrown on a
white sereen of blotting paper being adjusted to equality. A sperm
candle is used as the standard, placed on astand sliding on a graduated
rod at an angle with the frame of the instrument which carries the lens
and is also graduated. The stronger beam is reflected to the lens by a
small mirror inclined at 45° to a horizontal axis, about which it can
rotate. Collateral observations are taken through red and green glasses
to get a better estimate of the power of the light. (Nature, March,
Xxv, p. 426; Phil. Mag., July, V, XIv, p. 45.)

In order to show the focus after refraction through a prism, Crova
replaces the slit of a spectroscope by a plate of silvered glass having two
lines at right angles drawn through the silvering, the quadrants being
filled with fine lines drawn in various directions. When illuminated
with sodium light, and viewed in the observing telescope, a sharp image
is obtained by these lines, both horizontal and vertical, when at mini-
mum deviation, but if the prism be displaced, the image of the lines
perpendicular to the principal section becomes indistinct. These phe-
nomena may be projected on a screen by suitable modifications in the
method. (J. Phys., February, II, 1, p. 84.)

Chappuis has examined carefully the absorption spectrum of ozone,
which he says characterizes this gas better than any other of its phys-
PHYSICS. 485

ical or chemical properties. He gives the wave-lengths of eleven ozone
bands, the strongest being the two near D, of wave-lengths 609.5-593.5
and 577-560 respectively. He finds these bands also in the spectrum
of liquid ozone. He discusses the question of telluric lines in the solar
spectrum, and regards the blue color of the sky as due, in part at least,
to the presence of ozone. (J. Phys., November, II, 1, p. 494.)

Cimician has carefully examined the spectrum of acetylene and finds
that it differs from that of hydrogen much more than do the spectra
of ethylene and marsh gas. In these the characteristic carbon bands
show the spectrum to be that of a hydrocarbon gas; while in that of
acetylene the red, orange, and yellow portions resemble much more
closely the spectrum of carbon dioxide than of hydrogen. ( Wied. Ann.,
No. 10; v; Nature, January, xxv, p. 290.)

Liveing and Dewar have continued their researches on the spectrum
of carbon, and in a paper presented to the Royal Society give the wave-
lengths of twenty ultra-violet lines measured photographically by means
of a Rutherford grating. In studying the spectrum of a Swan incan-
descent lamp, they came to the conclusion that the temperature of the
incandescent thread heated by fifty Grove cells is not far different from
that of sodium heated in a cyanogen flame burning in air, but is less
than that of an oxyhydrogen flame. (Proc. Roy. Soc., March 9; Nature,
April, XxVv, p. 549.)

Thollon has published in parallel columns the wave-lengths of the
bands of the carbon spectrum as observed by Bigourdan in the are of
the electric lamp of Jamin, by Salet in the condensed spark in cyanogen
or illuminating gas, by Lecog de Boisbaudran in the blue flame of illu-
minating gas, and by himself in the spectrum of comet b, 1881. (Ann,
Chim. Phys., February, V, xxv, p. 287.)

Abney has published minute directions for performing work in the
infra-red region of the spectrum, including the preparation of the silver
bromide emulsion, and the method of development. (Nature, Novem-
ber, XXVII, p. 15.)

Johnson has quoted Wollaston’s paper in the Philosophical Transae-
tions for 1802, and Newton’s “ Opticks,” 1704, in proof of his assertion
that Newton did employ a slit and did obtain a pure spectrum. Woll-
aston says: “Ifa beam of daylight be admitted into a dark room by a
erevice 1-20th of an inch broad and received by the eye at a distance of
10 or 12 feet through a prism of flint glass, free from veins, held near the
eye, the beam is seen to be separated into the four following colors only:
red, yellowish-green, blue, and violet.’ Newton says: “Instead of the
circular hole, ’tis better to substitute an oblong hole, shaped like a long
parallelogram, with its length parallel to the prism. For if this hole
be an inch or two long and but a tenth or twentieth part of an inch
broad or narrower, the light of the image will be as simple as before,
or simpler, and the image will become much broader and therefore more
486 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882

fit to have experiments tried in its light than before.” (Nature, October,
XXVI, p. 572.)

Liveing and Dewar have studied carefully the lines in the spectra
of different elements which have been supposed to be coincident, and
conclude, from the results that they have already obtained, that the coin-
cidences as yet unresolved will yield to still higher dispersive power or
are purely accidental. (Ann. Chim. Phys., Sebruary, V, XXv, p. 190.) ©

Langley has given the results of experiments made with the bolome-
ter to determine the distribution of energy in the normal spectrum.
This curve has its maximum ordinate very near the line D, the meas-
urements extending from a wave length of 0.00035 to 0.00300"". Taking
the bolometric indications when the sun was nearest the zenith, and
when ata distance from it, the author has been able to calculate the form
of the curve of solar radiation without the earth’s atmosphere. ‘lhis
curve has its maximum ordinate near the line F, whence he concludes
“that the total radiations of the solar photosphere, if they could reach
us, would give us the sensation of a compound color resembling a dark
blue.” (Ann. Chim. Phys., February, V, Xxv, p. 211.)

At the Southampton meeting of the British Association, Langley
gave the results of his bolometric measurements made upon the sum-
mit of Mount Whitney, in Southern California, at an altitude of 13,000
feet. These, combined with the results obtained at Allegheny, gave
the data for two charts, one of the prismatic, the other of the normal,
spectrum. The extension of the spectrum by these measurements is
remarkable. Between H in the extreme violet and A in the furthest
red lies the visible spectrum, its length being about 4,000 of Ang-
strém’s units. The chart shows that the region below this extends
through 24,000 units more, so much of it as lies below wave-length
12,000 being here mapped for the first time. Moreover, the bolometer
shows this region to be crossed by Fraunhofer lines; and, with the aid
of one of Rowland’s concave gratings, their wave-lengths have been
measured. The terminal ray of the solar spectrum whose presence has
certainly been felt by the bolometer has a wave-length of about 28,000.
He concludes with the remark that ‘ while all radiations emanate from
the solar surface, including red and infra-red, in greater degree than
we receive them, that the blue end is so enormously greater in propor-
tion, that the proper color of the sun as seen at the photosphere is blue—
not only bluish, but positively and distinctly blue.” (Nature, October,
XXVI, p. 586.)

Several new forms of direct-vision prisms have been suggested.
Ahrens uses a bisulphide prism cemented between two flint-glass prisms
giving a wide dispersion with but little loss of light. Fuchs employs
a single isosceles glass prism at minimum deviation, a silvered mirror
being attached to the basal face of the prism to rectify the ray after
emergence. Ricco has described a similar combination, in which a total-
reflection prism is substituted for the mirror. The second prism of the
PHYSICS. A87

combination is four-sided, so that it not only rectifies the ray which has

‘been deflected by the first prism but also increases by a nearly equal
amount the dispersion of the first prism. (Nature, December, XXvu,
p- 182.)

Wead has proposed a method of combining color disks by the rota-
tion of a plane mirror slightly inclined to the axis around which it ro-
tates. If the angle of inclination, the distances of the eye and the
disks from the mirror, and the sizes of the mirror and the disk are
properly proportioned, a good combination of the colors may be effected
and the necessary adjustment of colors may be made without stopping
the rotation. (Nature, January, XXxv, p. 266.)

For the mixture of spectrum colors, von Frey and von Kries illumi-
nate two neighboring surfaces, one with a mixture of two spectrum
colors, the other either by a mixture of white light and a given spec-
trum color, or by white light alone. Their results for complementary
colors confirm those of Helmholtz. Ifa curve be constructed with the
wave-lengths of certain colors as abscissas and wave-lengths of their
complementaries as ordinates, the two branches of an equilateral hy-
perbola are obtained. But the curves obtained by the two observers
under the same conditions are not identical, but intersect in the yellow-
ish-blue. Analogous differences appear in the experiments made to
reproduce the different tints of the spectrum by the mixture of two
spectrum colors. Thus, when the red of C and the green of ) are used
to reproduce intermediate tints, von Kries must employ more green
than von Frey, and less when the green of b is mixed with the violet of
G. These results show the eye of one of these authors to be more
sensitive to yellow than the other. - They attribute it to unequal ab-
sorption by the pigment of the yellow spot. (J. Phys., November, II,
I, p. 513.)

Hastings has published a paper on the color correction of double ob-
jectives, in which, after a review of the methods heretofore employed for
attaining this end, he gives a theoretical solution of the problem, shows
how the results may be applied to the practical construction of an ob-
jective, and, finally, gives the results of some practical tests of the theory.
Two forms of test were applied. In the one three objectives were con-
structed from the theory and their performance studied. In the cther
objectives of the most approved makers were examined and their prac-
tice compared with theory. The results in both cases were regarded
as a decisive proof of the correctness of the theory. (Am. J. Sci.,
March, III, xxi, p. 167.)

4. Interference and Polarization.

Michelson has investigated the interference phenomena observed in
the form of refractometer employed by him in his experiments to deter-
mine the relative motion of the earth and the ether. He finds satisfac-
488 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882.

tory accordance of experiment with theory. (Am. J. Sci., May, ITI,
XXIII, p. 395.)

Rowland has published a preliminary notice of the results accom-
plished in the manufacture and theory of gratings for optical purposes.
Having devised a plan for making a practically perfect screw, which
proved successful, the ruling machine was at once constructed. No
error as great as the one-hundred thousandth part of an inch has been
detected in any part of thisscrew, and it has no appreciable periodic
error. Gratings have been ruled on the machine having 43,000 lines
to the inch, and a ruled surface has been made with it having 160,000
lines, 29,000 to the inch, in size 64 x 44 inches. Rowland then made an
investigation of the theory of concave gratings and found their laws to
be very simple. Draw the radius of curvature of the mirror to the cen-
ter of the mirror, and from its central point, with a radius equal to half
the radius of curvature, draw a circle. This circle thus passes through

the center of curvature of the mirror and touches the mirror at its cen-

ter. If the source of light is anywhere in this circle the image of this
source and the different orders of the spectra are all brought to focus
on this cirele. This leads to a mechanical contrivance by which we can
move from one spectrum to the next and yet have the apparatus always
in focus. It consists simply in attaching the slit, the eye-piece, and
the grating to three equal arms pivoted together at their other ends.
The most interesting case is when the bars carrying the eye-piece and
grating are attached end to end, forming a diameter of the circle, the
eye-piece being at the center of curvature of the mirror, and the rod
carrying the slit alone movable. In this case the spectrum viewed by
the eye-piece is normal; and when a micrometer is used, the value of a
division on its head in wave-lengths does not depend on the position of
the slit, but is proportional simply to the order of the spectrum. More-
over, all the superimposed spectra are in exactly the same focus, and it
is a beautiful sight to see the lines appear colored on a nearly white
ground. A list of some of the flat and the concave gratings is given,
together with the results obtained with them. (Nature, June, XXVI, p.
211; November, Xxvil, p. 95; Phil. Mag., July, Suppl., V, XIII, p. 469.)

Frolich has studied the light which is reflected from very fine metal-
lic gratings, comparing it with that reflected from the non-striated sur-
face. When the light was polarized, the plane of polarization making
an angle of 45° with the plane of incidence, he observed that the two
portions of the black fringe of the compensator did not coincide, and
that the plane of polarization, being restored, is not the same for the
two halves of the field, the difference being 10° for an incidence of 70°,
the lines vertical. If the angle of polarization of the incident light @
be varied, for the light reflected by the ruling the angle ¢ of the re-
stored plane of polarization does not satisfy the equation tan g cot y=
const. If pm be taken as 0, y= 5° 40’ when i= 609, the lines vertical.
If a lens of 10 meters radius be superposed on the grating, the center

———
PHYSICS. 489

of the rings produced coinciding with the edge of the striated surface,
it is observed that the diameter of the rings is different on the polished
and the striated portions. These phenomena are inexplicable in the
present state of optical science. (Wied. Ann., V, XIU, p. 133; J. Phys.,
January, II, 1, p. 50.)

Lommel some time ago showed that a plate of magnesium platino-
cyanide perpendicular to the axis polarizes completely in the plane of
incidence blue rays which fall upon it at an incident angle greater than
2°, He has now constructed a polariscope with-plates of this salt, anal-
ogous to the tourmaline pincette; but a layer of copper sulphate must
be placed before the polarizer so that blue rays only shall pass. Tor
dichroic substances with superficial colors, polarization by refraction is
not due to absorption, but results from the fact that the light reflected
from such a surface is completely polarized in a plane perpendicular to
the plane of incidence. Hence the transmitted rays are polarized in
this plane. (Wied. Ann., V, xl, p. 347; J. Phys., April, U, I, p. 199.)

Govi has proposed to rotate the analyzing nicol prism of a projection
apparatus, to which a direct-vision prism is attached for the purpose of
determining the direction of rotation of the polarized ray produced by
a plate of quartz placed between the nicols. The spectrum will be cir-
cular, the red being at the center and the violet at the circumference.
When the quartz plate is interposed, two black archimedean spirals
will appear, moving toward or from the center, according to the direc-
tion of rotation of the quartz. (J. Phys., August, II, 1, p. 372.)

The saccharimeter of Laurent has hitherto required monochromatic
light. Anew modification of this instrument, using ordinary light, has
recently been introduced by the maker, in which the rotation of the
sugar solution is balanced by a quartz compensator, as in the Soleil
instrument. Dufet has given the theory of the new instrument, and
shows that this modification restricts the use of the instrument to solu-
tions of sugar, the law of rotation of which is sensibly the same as that
of quartz. (Comptes Rendus, xctv, 442; J. Phys., December, I, 1, 552.)

ELECTRICITY.
1. Magnetism.

Eaton has investigated the conditions of maximum magnetization of
diamagnetie and feebly paramagnetic bodies, using an experimental
method analogous to that of G. Wiedemann. The results obtained with
ferric chloride show that the magnetism of a solution of this salt is ex-
actly proportional to the magnetizing force; hence a maximum of mag-
netization does not exist for feebly magnetic substances, at least up to
the limit given by seven Bunsen cells. With diamagnetic bodies, the
author comes tothe same conclusion. (Wied. Ann., V, xv, 225; J.Phys.,
July, II, 1, p. 333.)

Schuhmeister has determined several magnetic and diamagnetic con-
490 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882.

stants in absolute measure, by the method of oscillations, the magnetiz-
ing forces being from 300 to 2,500 Gaussian units. For a solution of fer-
ric chloride of density 1.40, K. 10° = 35. The constants of diamagnetic
liquids diminish when the magnetizing force increases; in gases the
reverse is trne. Oxygen charged with ozone is two or three times more
magnetic than pure oxygen. For a magnetizing force of 1,308, the fol-
lowing values were obtained for K. 10°: water, — 0.453; alcohol, — 0.416;
carbon disulphide, — 0.290; oxygen, + 0.059 ; oxygen ozonized, + 0.181.
(J. Phys., April, II, 1, p. 201.)

Berson has made a study of the effect of temperature on the magnetic
properties of metals by comparing the magnetic moments of different
bars at different temperatures, when placed in a magnetic field of uni-
form intensity. With iron the total and temporary magnetizations
both increase up to 260°, above which the Jatter falls off rapidly, the
former slowly. In steel, the maximum of total magnetization is obtained
at 260° also, but the permanent magnetization reaches its highest value
at 240°. A steel bar magnetized cold loses magnetism on heating, whie
one magnetized hot losesit on cooling. With nickel the total magnet-
ization increases up to 240° and diminishes so rapidly above 280° as
to be 0 at 330°. If magnetized at 280°, the magnetic moment first in-
creases on cooling and then diminishes slightly; though it still remains
greater than at the temperature of magnetization. (Nature, December,
XX Vid, putes.)

The elongation of a bar of iron when magnetized was determined
by Joule in 1847 at 1-200000th of its length, and by Mayer in 1873 at
1-277000th. Hard steel was noticed by both observers to contract when
magnetized. Barrett has now extended these investigations to cobalt
and nickel, and finds that in his apparatus iron elongates 1-260000th,
and cobalt 1-425000th, while nickel contracts 1-130C00th, the contraction
being instantaneous. On heating the bar to 50°, the retraction is only
three-fourths of its former value. (Nature, October, XXVI, p. 585.)

Gray has called attention to the converse of these results of Barrett’s,
obtained in some experiments made by his brother and himself under
Sir William Thomson’s direction. Barrett finds that the eftect of lon-
gitudinally magnetizing a bar of iron is to increase its dimensions lon-
gitudinally and to diminish them laterally, so that the volume remains
constant; while Thomson shows that the effect of increasing longitudi-
nal dimensions in an iron bar is to increase, and of increasing transverse
dimensions to diminish its longitudinal magnetization. (Nature, Octo-
ber, XXVI, p. 625.)

Cheesman has investigated, under Kohlrausch’s direction, the effect
of mechanical hardening upon the magnetic properties of steel and iron,
the results of which are in entire accordance with those obtained by
Ruths and others with magnets hardened by beat. (Am. J. Sei., Sep-
tember, III, xxiv, p. 180.)

Clemandot, in a communication to the French Academy, maintains

PHYSICS. AQ]

that steel submitted to great pressure, and cooled under this pressure,
possesses coercitive force, and may be permanently magnetized. More-
over, steel thus treated may be heated, and even forged, without losing
this property. Instead of being ephemeral and transitory, as coercitive
force is in steel hardened in a bath, that produced by compression is
permanent, unalterable. In proof of this, the author broke in pieces
the magnets of a magneto-electric machine, forged them into a bar,
compressed this bar, reformed the magnets, remagnetized them, and
found them to have, on testing, the same magnetic force as before.
(Comptes Rendus, October, Xcv, p. 587.)

Goolden has contrived a convenient form of dip circle, which is con-
structed by C. Casella, of London, and which is sufficiently accurate
for class instruction. (Nature, December, XXxvU, p. 127.)

Kohlrausch has described some portable instruments for measuring
variations in the intensity of terrestrial magnetism. They include (1)
a bifilar magnetometer, in which the magnet is inclosed in a rectangular
box 12.5 x 5 x 5°, made of copper and having a glass front. The cover
carries a tube 2.5e™ in diameter and 25 high, furnished with a torsion
circle, supporting a bifilar suspension consisting of two brass wires
0.05™" in diameter, 8™™ apart. The magnet is 10° long, 1.4 in diam-
eter, with a hole 9™™ in diameter through the axis. It weighs 83 grams,
and is supported by a stirrup which carries a mirror. (2) An instrument
for measuring variations by means of directing magnets, consisting of
a compass, the needle of which is maintained at 90° to the magnetic
meridian by four magnets carried by a metallic circle, with which is a
second circle graduated. The author claims that these instruments
will give the variations to 1-10000th of their total value. (Wied. Ann.,
V, xv, p. 550; J. Phys., October, I, 1, p. 467.)

2. Electromotors.

The theory proposed by Exner, that electrification does not result
from contact of metals, but from the chemical action of the air, produc-
ing oxidation, the layer of oxide remaining there permanently, has been
criticised by several physicists. Exner’s experiments tended to prove,
as he thought, that the superior limit of the difference of potential of
the metal and its oxide is proportional to the heat of oxidation of the
metal, In contact with platinum, which he supposes incapable of ox-
idizing, the other metal with its layer of electrified oxide forms a con-
denser, the charge of which, measured by an electrometer, will be one
half the electromotive force belonging to the metal in question. Stole-
tow has taken up in order the eleven experiments which Exner cites in
his second memoir as contradictory to the contact theory as ordinarily
admitted, and shows that, considering the earth as a metallic conductor,
all the eleven may be very simply explained in conformity with the
contact theory. Sokoloff has examined mathematically the condenser
492 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882.

theory of Exner, and found it in error. (J. Phys., December, II, 1, p.
574.)

Ewing and Jenkin have observed that a wire of iron or steel sub-
mitted to the action of a magnetizing helix yields, when twisted, an
instantaneous longitudinal current directed from the north to the south
end when the torsion is in the direction of an ordinary screw, and from
south to north when the torsion isin the other direction. On reversing
the longitudinal magnetization of a wire submitted to torsion, a moment-
ary energetic current is produced ; but the interruption or re-establish-
ment of the current produces only a trifling effect. A magnetized wire
not under the action of an external magnetizing force also gives a cur-
rent when twisted, in the same direction as before. The authors give
the name “ polarization” to the state produced in a wire by the super-
position of a torsion and a longitudinal magnetization, a state which
persists after the magnetizing force ceases; it is measured by the mo-
mentary current which accompanies its production. The molecular
condition opposing magnetization, ordinarily called coercitive force, the
authors call hysteresis. (Proc. Roy. Soc., XXXII, p. 21; J. Phys., July,
II, 1, p. 332.)

Felice shows to an audience the fundamental fact that in the interior
of a battery the current goes from the zine to the copper by using a
cell of considerable length and suspending a needle just above the
liquid. (J. Phys., December, II, I, p. 571.)

Bennet has constructed a cheap form of battery which can be made for
sixpence. An iron meat or milk can forms at the same time the nega-
tive plate and the containiug vessel. In it is a porous cup containing
a zine plate passing through a paraffined cork as cover. The liquid
used is caustic soda, which is electronegative to zine, and in which iron
does not rust. Its electromotive force is 1.23 volts. Iron filings round
the porous cup facilitate depolarization. Ata subsequent meeting of
the London Physical Society, Lecky stated that the electromotive force
of the Bennet cell as determined by Guthrie was 1.14 volts, the internal
resistance being 0.8 ohm; both quantities varying somewhat. McLeod
also gave the results of his tests. Oncharging, the electromotive force
was 1.005 volts, but on standing three days it rose to 1.213 volts. The
internal resistance was-1.007 ohms. (Nature, May, June, XXvI, pp. 71,
119.)

Wright, in a paper presented to the London Physical Society, gives
the results of his investigations on the Daniell cell, as a part of his more
extended research on the determination of chemical affinity in terms of
electromotive force. He concludes that when a Daniell cell is made
with equal-sized plates of pure zine and pure copper, immersed re-
spectively in solutions of pure zine and copper sulphates of the same
density, and is made to generate a current not exceeding in density 8
microamperes per square centimeter, an electromotive force is set up
always lying fairly close to 1.115 volts, and practically identical with
PHYSIUS. A93

the electromotive force corresponding to the energy gained in the
net chemical change ensuing. By taking suitable precautions in the
construction of a cell, one may be obtained the electromotive force of
which does not differ more than + 0.25 per cent. from 1.114 volts.
But such a cell cannot be kept for many hours without altering in
value materially, and is in practice, therefore, a far less convenient
standard than the Clark mercurous sulphate cell. (Nature, February,
Xxv, p. 403; Phil. Mag., April, V, XIII, p. 265.)

Potier has given a description of the various classes of dynamoelectric
machines exhibited at the Electrical Exposition in Paris in 1881. The
Gramme, Edison, Siemens, Burgin, Giilcher, and Brush machines are
figured. The ring of the Brush machine is criticised as giving rise to
injurious Foucault currents; so that while the Gramme and the Siemens
machines give above 90 per cent. efficiency, that of the Brush machine
is below 80. (J. Phys., September, II, 1, p. 389.)

Lacoine has investigated the increased resistance in dynamo-electric
machines due to increased velocity of rotation, and finds it to be due to

variations in contact between the commutator and brushes. Using a
copper cylinder 5°” in diameter, having longitudinal grooves ent in its
surface, two steel springs were made to press on opposite sides of it,
which were in circuit with a battery, telephone, and galvanometer.
When at rest, the resistance of the circuit was 68 ohms; at 2,000 rota-
tions, 183; at 4,000, 900; at about 5,000, 1,567; at a higher velocity
not measured, 2,900. Each spring touched the cylinder over three
grooves, and increasing the pressure diminishes the resistance. Using
a smooth cylinder, the results were the same except that a little higher
velocity was necessary to obtain the same resistance. (Comptes Rendus,
xc, p. 958; Phil. Mag., January, V, XIII, p. 76.)

Sir Wiliiam Thomson has devised two dynamos, one giving continuous,
the other alternating currents. In the former, a drum-armature in the
form of a barrel is used, the staves being of copper and insulated from
one another. At one end of the drum these copper bars are all united
to one metallic plate, and at the other their prolongations serve as com-
mutator bars. Inside this armature is a stationary electro-magnet, its
poles facing those of the nearly circular field magnets placed outside.
The arinature is supported on friction rollers, the lower pair made of
non-conducting material, the upper of copper, to take off the currents.
The alternating current machine is a disk dynamo, in which the rota-
ting armature has noiron. The disk is made of wood, having projecting
wooden teeth upon its sides, around which the copper wire or strip is
carried alternately backwards and forwards, going finally to the axle.
The field magnets are placed round the circumference of a circular
frame with their poles alternating and facing inward. They are formed
of a cast-iron ring with lugs screwed upon its face, around which, back-
ward and forward, the zigzag conductors pass. (Nature, November,
XXVII, pp. 58, 78.)
A494 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882.

Gordon’s dynamo has attracted considerable attention because of its
size, being more than 9 feet high and weighing 18 tons. The armature
is a disk of boiler-iron having upon its faces 64 circular coils. Upon
the fixed framework are 128 “ taking-off” coils, sector-shaped, alternately
connected to two circuits. There are 32 groups in parallel circuit, each
group containing 4 coils in series. The current is taken from the fixed
coils, the movable coils being excited by two Biirgin machines, through
the commutator. With 140 revolutions the electro motive force is 105
volts, and the current sustains 1,300 Swan lamps, but is expected to run
5,000 to 7,000 with increase of driving power. (Nature, November,
XXXVI, p. 60.)

Lodge has given an ingenious geometrical poneerencn giving the
relation between the waste and the useful work in a shunt dynamo.
(Nature, July, XXVI, 311.)

In a lecture at the Electrical Exhibition, Ayrton has considered the
question of the economy of gas-engines in the production of electricity.
Using the highly purified gas employed for illumination, even at 75 cents
per thousand cubic feet (which is twice the Paris price), the gas-engine
cannot compete with the steam-engine in economy. But using some
form of the newer and cheaper water gas, such as is made by the Dowson
process, by passing air and steam through a mass of burning fuel, the re-
verse condition obtains. While the calorific power of a cubic meter of
coal gas is 5,590,399 heat units, and the calorific intensity 2,554° C., that
of He ae gas is 1,558,358 and 2,268, respectively. The figures
taken from a gas-engine of 30 horse-power Jnana by means of the Dow-
son gas for 300 days of nine hours each showed that the cost was about
454 per cent. less than when worked with gas at 75 cents per thousand
feet, and 474 per. cent. less than a portable steam-engine. A steam-
engine consuming 6 pounds of coal per indicated horse-power per bour
requires 217 tons of coal to give the same power as 39 tons of coal con-
verted into gas by the Dowson process. In a series of trials made with
34 horse-power gas-engines, it appeared that one indicated horse-power
is obtained from a consumption of gas derived from 1.46 pounds of coal,
after allowing 10 per cent. for impurities as well as for the gas burned
in the manufacture. As the cost is less as the engine is iarger, the
author believes that an engine indicating 40 horse-power would require
90 cubic feet of Dowson gas per indicated horse-power per hour, requir-
ing a consumption of coal of only 1.2 pounds per indicated horse-power
per hour. (Nature, January, xxv, p. 281.)

Bouty has suggested a striking analogy of thermo-dynamic with
thermo-electric phenomena and with the phenomenon of Peltier. (J.
Phys., June, II, 1, p. 267.)

In 1856, Sir William Thomson showed that magnetization of iron and
steel modified their thermo-electric properties. Stroubal and Barus have
repeated the experiments for the case of longitudinal magnetization and
have reached the same conclusion. Relatively to the hardness, the

PHYSICS. 495

influenceof magnetization is extremely feeble. (Wied. Ann., V, XIv, p. 54;
J. Phys., June, II, 1, p. 291.)

The Thomson effect, or the transference of heat by an electricai eur-
rent, has been investigated by Trowbridge and Penrose, both in nickel
and carbon. The strip of nickel was 45° long, 2.6°™ wide, and 2™™
thick. The transference of the heat was found to be negative; 7%. ¢., heat
is absorbed by a current which passes from hot to cold, and evolved
when it passes from cold to hot. On testing the question whether the
phenomenon is reversible, the results were quite inconclusive, though
tending to prove rather than to disprove it. No effect upon the Thom-
son effect was produced by a magnetic field. Repeating with copper the
first experiment with nickel, the relative values for the two metals were
obtained. Calling copper 2, the effect for nickel is 2.25, but of opposite
sign. The carbon employed was that of a Faber pencil, and the direc-
tion of the Thomson effect was found to be negative, like nickel. (Am.
J. Sct., November, ILI, xx1v, 379.)

Elster and Geitel have investigated the electrical properties of flame,
using the Thomson quadrant electrometer. They find that as long as
either of the electrodes is outside the flame and the other inside, the
outside one is positive and the other negative. The film of hot air
outside the flame is always positive and the flame inside relatively neg-
ative. The result is the same with gas flames, candle flames, alcohol
flames, and even in air flames burning in coal gas, the difference of poten-
tial being from 14 to 1} times that of a Daniell cell. Ifin place of two
platinum wires, the upper one is copper, the E. M. F. rose to 2 Daniell
cells, with aluminum it rose to 3, and with magnesium to 3.2 cells.
With a lump of clean sodium it even reached 5 cells. Using 25 spirit
lamps in series, a curved piece of platinum wire passing from the base
of one flame to the tip of the next, a flame battery was produced.
Finally, a difference of potential was observed between an incandescent
platinum wire heated by a current and a second wire whose tip entered
the hot-air currents from the former, no flame or combustion products
being present. Hence a flame in itself is not a source of electrification
at all. The authors conclude, (1) that the production of electricity by
flames is independent of the size of the flame; (2) dependent on the
nature and gtate of the surface of the electrodes; (3) dependent on the
nature of the gases that are burning in the flame; and (4) dependent on
the state of ignition of the electrodes. Hence it is a thermo-electric
phenomenon and analogous to the counter E. M. F. of the are. (Wied.
Ann., V, XXVI, p. 193; Phil. Mag., September, V, X1v, p..161; Nature,
August, XXVI, p. 321.)

3. Electrical Measurements.

In his address as president of the British Association at the Souta-
ampton meeting, Dr. C. W. Siemens gave a résumé of the progress
made in the establishment of electric units, culminating finally in the
496 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882.

adoption by the International Congress of Electricians, held in Septem-
ber, 1881, of the volt, ohm, coulomb, ampere, and farad. To these,
however, he suggested that some others should be added. For the unit
of magnetic quantity he adopted Clausius’s suggestion, and proposed
the name “weber.” For the unit of electrical power or rate of work,
i. e., the power conveyed by the current of an ampere through the dif-
ference of potential of one volt, he proposed the name ‘ watt.” For the
unit of intensity of magnetic field he suggested the name proposed by
Thomson, of “gauss,” the gauss being the intensity of field produced
by a weber at the distance of one centimeter, and a weber the absolute
Cc. G. S. unit strength of magnetic pole. Two poles, each of one weber
strength, at one centimeter distance, will attract with the force of one
dyne. For the unit of heat, produced in one second by one ampere of
current flowing through one ohm resistance, he proposed the name
joule.” Its value in absolute measure is 10" Cc, G. S. units, and there-
fore, taking Joule’s equivalent as 4.2 x 107 units, it is the heat neces-
sary to raise 0.238 gram of water one degree centigrade... (Nature, Au-
gust, XXVI, p. 390.)

The Congress of Electricians delegated toan International Conference
(1) the final determination of the ohm, (2) the investigation of earth cur-
rents and atmospheric electricity, and (3) the standard of light. This
conference met in Paris, in October, 1882. As regards the ohm, 7. e.,
the length of a mercury column one square millimeter in section, whose
resistance is equal to 10° co. G. 8. units, several values were before the
conference. These are, Kohlrausch’s, 1.0593 meters; Rayleigh’s (by
B. A. method), 1.0624; (by the method of Lorenz) 1.0620; Glazebrook’s,
1.0624; H. Weber’s, 1.0611; W. Weber and Zéllner’s, 1.0552; Rowland’s,
1.0572; Dohrn’s, 1.0546. But opposed to these is F. Weber’s value,
1.0471, which is very near the B. A. ohm. So that the conference
postponed further action, and recommended experimentalists (1) to
compare their resistances with the standard of resistance which the
French Government will furnish; (2) to compare the induction coils
by Kohlrausch’s method with the wire circuit; and (3) to use in their
measurements the modified and improved method of Lorenz. The
second section resolved that the various Governments be requested
to favor regular and systematic observations of atmospheric electric-
ity upon their systems of telegraph; that the study of storms should
be undertaken in every country; that wires independent of the tele-
graph system should be provided for the special study of earth currents;
and that, as far as practicable, the great subterranean telegraph lines,
especially those running from south to north and from east to west,
should be utilized for the same purpose, the observations in the differ-
ent countries taking place on the same day. The third section ex-
pressed the opinion that the light emitted by a square centimeter of
melting platinum would furnish an absolute standard. The conference

|
|
|

ee
PHYSICS. 497

adjourned to meet on the first Monday in October, 1883. (Nature,
November, December, XxXvIlI, pp. 18, 144.)

Several excellent expositions of the absolute or ©. G. 8. system of
electrical units have appeared since the adoption of these units by
the International Congress of Electricians. Of these may be espe-
cially mentioned a lecture by Levy, delivered before the Société d’En-
couragement (Ann. Chim. Phys., May, V, XXVI, p. 85), and a paper by
Pellat (J. Phys., June, II, 1, p. 255).

Clausius has published a paper on the different systems of measures
for electric and magnetic quantities, in which he maintains that Max-
well has committed an error in his formula for the static magnetism
unit. (Phil. Mag., June, V, Xt, p. 381; J. Phys., June, II, 1, p. 273.)

To this paper there have been many replies: Everett (Phil. Mag.,
V, XIII, pp. 376, 431); J. J. Thomson (b., x1, p. 427; xiv, p. 225); Lar-
mor (Ib., x1II, p. 429); Lodge (Ib., xiv, p. 357); Wead (Zb., X11, p.
530); Sargant (Ib., XIv, p. 395); and finally von Helmholtz (Ib., De-
cember, XIv, p. 430). The latter says: ‘In all this I cannot perceive
_ any mistake of Maxwell’s; and his equations, derived from the form-
ulation of the fundamental phenomena chosen by him, are altogetlier
as consistent with each other and as correct, if understood in the sense
of their author, as those of Professor Clausius.”

Von Helmholtz has devised an electrodynamic balance, in which two
coils are suspended, with their axes vertical, from the ends of the beam.
Above these coils, which can rotate about their axes, are fastened two
larger coils. These are so connected that one of the movable coils is
attracted, the other repelled. The movable parts are connected with
the fixed parts by bands of Dutch metal 8.3 meters long, 6 to 7 milli-
meters wide. The instrument will measure to 1-2000th a current bal-
anced by one gram. (Wied. Ann., V, XIv, 52; J. Phys., January, I, 1,
p. 52.)

Sir William Thomson has contrived two new forms of galvanometer,
which he calls graded galvanometers, which have for their object the
determination of the value sought without calculation. One of these
is for measuring differences of potential in volts, and is called a poten-
tial galvanometer. The other measures current strength in amperes,
and is called a current galvanometer. The planof both instruments is
essentially the same. Each consists of a coil and a magnetometer.
The coil of the former instrument is a ring of circular section, 14°™
in outside diameter and 6™ inside; the diameter of its section, there-
fore, is 4™. It is made of German silver wire covered with silk, of
No. 32 B. W. G., and contains 2,200 yards wound in 7,000 turns, having
a resistance of 6,000 ohms. It is saturated with paraffin and served
with silk ribbon. This coil is firmly attached to one end of a horizon-
tal wooden platform, its plane being vertical. The magnetometer con-

sists of a system of magnets properly supported so as to be free to
EM iss 26-39
498 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882.

turn round a vertical axis. Each magnet is 1™ long, made of glass-
hardened steel wire, No. 18. Four of these form the needle, and the
sides of the mounting are prolonged so as to form an index, moving
over a graduated scale, the whole inclosed in a quadrantal shaped box.
A semicircular magnet placed vertically over the angle of the quad-
rant intensifies the field when necessary. The magnetometer box is
placed on the platform so that the axis of the needle passes through
the center of the coil and can be moved to and from it at pleasure.
The coil of the current galvanometer is made of stout copper strip
1.2™ broad, 1.5°™ thick, wound in six turns and insulated with as-
bestus paper. It will measure currents up to 100 amperes; and with
a single coil of still heavier copper, currents of 1,000 amperes. (Na-
ture, September, XXvVI, p. 506.)

Gray has published a valuable article upon the graduation of gal-
vanometers for the measurement of currents and potentials in absolute
measure, in which he discusses the method of determining the horizon-
tal component of the earth’s magnetism, the theory and construction of
the standard galvanometer, the theory and relations of electric units,
and the method of graduating and using Sir William Thomson’s graded
galvanometers. (Nature, XXVU, pp. 32, 105, 319, 339.)

Boys has suggested a current meter based on a new principle. The
rate of a pendulum clock depends on gravity and is proportional to the
square root of its strength. That of a watch depends on the strength
of the hair-spring and is proportional to the square root of its strength.

“he force due to an electric current is proportional to the square of the
current strength. Hence if a portion of a circuit is capable of vibrating
under electromagnetic force, the speed of vibration will be proportional
simply to the current strength. If, now, such a contrivance takes the
place of the balance of a pendulum clock, the clock will measure elec-
tric current instead of time. A meter of this kind has been constructed
in which the controlling power depends on iron crescents and solenoids,
and in which a portion of the main current is shunted through secondary
solenoids giving an impulse at each swing, when the balance is in its
neutral position, thus producing no effect on the rate of oscillation.
(Nature, February, Xxv, p. 355.)

Wartmann has contrived an apparatus which he calls a “rheolyzer”
for varying the strength of a derived current from zero to a maximum,
indicating at the same time the ratio of these variations. A graduated
metallic ring, round a column carried by a tripod, incloses a thick disk
of glass or ebonite resting on six radii of the ring. In the upper sur-
face of the disk is a circular trough of mercury receiving two copper
electrodes at the bottom, 180° apart. A cross-bar on the top of the
column, on which it turns as an axis, acts as a movable Wheatstone
bridge; it has two terminal verniers, and two screws dipping in the
mercury. These latter are insulated, but communicate through central

PHYSICS. 499

binding screws with a mirror galvanometer. Thestrength of the shunt
curreut varies as the bridge is displaced. (Nature, June, XXVI, p. 139.)

Von Fleisch! has claimed this apparatus as having been constructed
by him in 1877, and described under the name ‘“‘rheonom.” He says it
has been in Prof. E. Du Bois Reymond’s cabinet for more than five years.
(Nature, December, Xxvu, p. 127.)

Stone has constructed an electrodynamometer, in which the suspended
coil was made of aluminum wire, was 14 inches internal diameter,
contained forty-two turns of wire in five layers, weighed 64 grams, and
had a resistance of half anohm. Its performance was satisfactory.
(Nature, June, XXVI, p. 201.)

Slotte has given a method for calculating the length of the platinum
wire belonging to the Wheatstone bridge (which cannot always be deter-
mined by direct measurement), which is founded on that of comparing
and exchanging resistances. (Wied. Ann., V, XV, p. 176; Phil. Mag.,
March, V, XIU, p. 227.)

Sloguinoff has contrived a simple form of compensator for use with
the method of Du Bois Reymond for measuring electromotive forces by
the method of compensation. Two wires of equal length are stretched
parallel to one another and connected together at one end. To*the
other ends a standard cell is connected. To one of these same ends one
wire of the battery to be tested is connected, a galvanometer being in
the circuit, the other battery wire being attached to the end of a third
wire parallel to the others. Across the three wires is a slider for ad-
justing the distance. (J. Phys., March, II, 1, p. 138.)

The International Electrical Congress adopted the ohm as the unit
of resistance and defined it to be 10° c. G. Ss. units. But they left to a
special commission the determination of the length of a prism of mer-
cury one millimeter in cross-section which should have this resistance.
In consequence a large number of important papers has been published
upon the best method of making this measurement; or, what is practi-
cally the same, of determining the actual value of the B. A. unit called
the ohm. Before the meeting of the Congress, Rayleigh and Schuster
had repeated the original determination, using Thomson’s method and
the identical apparatus with which the B. A. Committee worked. They
find that the standard called an ohm by the committee is 0.9893 x
10° Cc. G. 8. units; a value near that obtained by Rowland, 0.9911 x 10°.
(Proc. Roy. Soc., April, 1881; J. Phys., January, II, 1, p. 43.)

Joubert has suggested a method for the determination of the ohm
founded on the measurement with the electrometer of the electromotive
forces in an induced circuit. (Comptes Rendus, June, xctv, p. 1519.)

Lippmann has proposed a thermoscopic method for the determination
of the ohm, which requires no measurement of amount of heat, nor an
exact value of Joule’s equivalent. (Comptes Rendus, October, xcv, p. 634.)
The various other methods which have been proposed have been dis-
cussed by Lippmann (J. Phys., July, II, 1, p. 313); by Lorenz (J. Phys.,
500 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882.

November, II, 1, 477); by G. Wiedemann (Llectrotechnische Zeitschrift,
July; Phil. Mag., V, XIV, p. 258); and by Rayleigh (Phil. Mag., Novem-
ber, V, XIV, p. 329.)

Naccari and Guglielmo have studied the electromotive forces ot bat-
teries which are not constant, and find that the nature of the plate on
which the hydrogen is evolved affects the value of the electromotive
force of a single liquid cell; and that the electromotive force of such a
couple varies always inversely to the intensity of the current, and that
this variation does not appear to be produced by the oxygen dissolved
or by the zine sulphate produced. (Il Nuovo Cimento, IU, Ix, p. 162; J.
Phys., November, II, 1, p. 521.)

Mazzotto has examined the constants of various cells, the internal
resistance being determined by Mance’s method, and the electromotive
force being calculated from this and the current strength. He finds
that in all the batteries tested the electromotive force diminishes con-
tinuously when the current strength increases, and conversely. The
internal resistance is greater as the battery is longer in action and as
the current is weaker, (J. Phys., November, 'II, 1, 522.)

Minchin, in a paper on the determination of electromotive force in
absolute electrostatic measure, has discussed the theory of and given
the results obtained with his absolute sine electrometer (referred to
in this report a year ago). He finds, for example, the electromotive
force of a Daniell cell with his instrument to be 0.00352 absolute electro-
static unit; while the value as obtained by Sir William Thomson, was
0.00374. (Nature, January, XXV, p. 278.)

Rayleigh, in a paper read before the Physical Section of the British
Association upon the absolute measurement of electrical currents, said
that the measurement of current strength in absolute measure was
more difficult than that of resistance. All the methods hitherto em-
ployed require either accurate measurements of the horizontal intensity
of the earth’s magnetism or of coils of small radius and many turns.
This latter is difficult to evaluate. Kohlrausch’s method is free from
this objection, but it requires a knowledge of the moment of inertia, a
quantity not easy accurately to determine. Mascart’s method. is simple
to think about but not calculated to secure precise results. (Nature,
September, xxvI, p. 465.)

With the aid of a Mascart electrometer, Berthelot has studied the
polarization of a zinc-carbon couple. When first set up, the electro-
motive force surpasses that of a zine-platinum couple in the ratio 1: 1.76,
and a Daniell cell in the ratio 1: 1.29, or even 1: 1. 37. It falls, how-
ever, very rapidly on closed circuit, becoming equal to that of a Dan-
iell in a few minutes, and falling to 0.83 of a Daniell in a few hours.
After thirty-six hours it became only half that of the Daniell. If the
plates be now washed several times in water frequently renewed, they
give the original electromotive force again. (Ann. Chim. Phys., Sep-
tember, V, XXVH, p. 106.)
PHYSICS. 501

Edlund has discussed the phenomena which bear on the question of
the electrical resistance of vacuum, and comes to the conclusion that
they all indicate that a vacuum is a good conductor of electricity, the ~
resistance commonly experienced taking place between the electrode
and the vacuum. ‘It seems to me,” he says, ‘‘ that in drawing, from
the known impossibility of an electric current traversing the most per-
fect vacuum between electrodes, the conclusion that a vacuum is abso-
lutely non-conducting, the same mistake has been made as when from
the circumstance that the sun rises in the east and sets in the west, it
was believed that one might infer that the sun in reality goes round
the earth.” (Phil. Mag., V, x10, p. 1,200; J. Phys., May, II, 1, p. 235.)

Rayleigh in conjunction with Mrs. Sidgwick, has determined the spe-
cific resistance of mercury. Four tubes were used to contain the mer-
cury, from 87 to 194 centimeters long. Tube I gave-the value 0.95416,
tube II 0.95419, tube III 0.95416, and tube IV 0.95427. Hence the
mercury unit is 0.94130 x 10° c. G. 8s. (Nature, May, Xxvi, p. 94; J.
Phys., July, U1, 1, p. 327.)

S. P. Thompson has made a series of measurements to prove that the
change in electric resistance produced by pressure on carbon is solely
due to an inerease in the perfection of the superficial contact. The
carbon used was Carré’s electric light carbon. (Phil. Mag., April, V,
XI, p. 262 ; Nature, March, Xxv, p. 427.)

Mendenhall, using the soft carbon buttons made for the Edison tele-
phone, finds not only that the resistance is diminished by pressure, but
also that this decrease in the resistance continues for some time. When,
for example, a carbon button having a resistance of 11.67 ohms was
pressed by a weight of 50 grams, tbis resistance fell at once to 3.52
ohms; but it continued to fall for an hour and a half, and even for
24 hours. In one case pressure was continued for a week; but upofi
removing the pressure the original resistance was at once recovered.
(Am. J. Sci., July, II, xxiv, p. 43.)

4, Electric Spark and Electric Light.

Nipher has put into practice at the observatory of the Washington
University, Saint Louis, a simple device for the transmission of clock-
beats upon telegraph lines. In it two platinum plates attached by a
light framework fastened to the lower end of the pendulum cut alter-
nately a globule of mercury just below them. As the break is deter-
mined by the distance apart of the plates, and as these are adjustable,
the length of the break may be made whatever is desirable. (Am. J. Sci.,
July, III, xx1v, 54.)

Baille, by means of a special apparatus, has measured the differences
of potential corresponding to a given distance of the explosive dis-
charge. He concludes, (1) for the same length of spark, the potential is
a maximum when the two electrodes have the same curvature; (2) the
potential varies from the maximum in proportion as the difference be-
502 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882.

tween the curvature of the electrodes is greater and the potential itself
higher; (3) for a given length of spark, taken between electrodes of
equal curvature, the potential varies with the diameter of the sphere,
so that a sphere can be found of such diameter that the potential shall
be a maximum; (4) the diameter of these equal spheres corresponding
to the maximum is as much smaller as the potential is itself smaller.
These two values increase together, but not proportionally ; (5) the
potentials V corresponding to the explosive distances 0 between two
planes can be expressed by the empirical hyperbola V? = 10500 (6 +
0.08) 6. (J. Phys., April, II, 1, p. 169; Ann. Chim. Phys., April, V, XXV,
p. 486.)

Reitlinger and Wachter explain the Lichtenberg figures by a disag-
gregation of the electrodes by the passage of positive electricity. Those
positive figures which are radiating in form, are attributed to the trans-
portation electrically of particles of dust torn from the positive elec-
trode; while those positive and negative figures alike, which have rounded
contours, are attributed to the transport of the dust by the gases shaken
by the discharge. (J. Phys., April, I, I, p. 203.) :

Goldstein has investigated the question of the influence of the shape
of the kathode on the distribution of the phosphorescent light in Geiss-
ler’s tubes, and figures some remarkable forms obtained. (Phil. Mag.,
December, V, XIV, p. 455.)

Spottiswoode, in a lecture at the Royal Institution upon matter and
magneto-electric action, gave a résumé of the work accomplished by
himself and Moulton in studying the electric discharge in rarefied gases,
especially with the use of alternating currents. (Nature, April, XXv,
p- 539.)

Jacquelain has presented a memoir to the French Academy on the
purification of graphitoidal carbons, either natural or artificial, with
special reference to the electric light. He concludes that the luminous
power and the steadiness of the voltaic are from a pure carbon, obtained
either directly or by a method of purification, increase with the den-
sity, the hardness, and the purity. The natural graphitoidal carbon
from Siberia has the unexpected property of giving when purified double
the light of the unpurified material. Its light-giving power surpasses
by one-sixth that of the purest artificial carbon, although a very hard
and brilliant pure artificial carbon has given an illumination equal to
236 carcels. Though the hardness of gas carbon is greater, its density
is less than that of the Siberian graphite, the former ranging from 1.90
to 1.99, while that of the latter is from 2.28 to 2.41. To this its superior
light-giving power is ascribed. (Ann. Chim. Phys., December, V, XXVIII,
p. 537.)

Foussereau has published an article on electric lighting, in which the
subject is divided as follows: 1st. Preparation of the carbons. The car-
bons most in use in France are those of Carré, made of coke, calcined
lampblack, and thick gum-water; of Gauduin, made of the coke from
PHYSICS. 503
tar or petroleum, mixed with lampblack, and of Napoli, made of gas
- coke and tar. 2d. Voltaic are lamps, monophotal, like those of Fou-
cault, Serrin, Jaspar, &c. 3d. Polyphotal lamps, as the Gramme, which
is a shunt lamp; the Siemens and the Brush, which are differential,
and the Brockie, which is periodic in its action. 4th. The distribution
of lights (1) all in multiple are, as in the Giilcher system; (2) all in
series, as in the Brush, and (3) upon the different circuits of a multiple
machine, as in Mersanne’s system. 5th. Electric candles, as the Jabloch-
koff, Jamin, and Soleil. 6th. Incandescent lamps, divided into (1) those
in air or an inert gas, as the Reynier, Werdermann and Sawyer, and (2)
those in a vacuum, like the Edison, Swan, Maxim, and Lane Fox. 7th.
Intensity of the light and its distribution inspace. (J. Phys., February,
March, II, I, pp. 72, 125.)

Ayrton and Perry have presented to the London Physical Society the
results of their experiments on the resistance and counter-electromotive
force of the arc. The latter was measured by a voltmeter placed be-
tween the terminals of the lamp. When the distance between the car-
bons was constant the electromotive force diminished as the current
increased. With a constant current, the electromotive force increased
rapidly at first with an increasing length of are, afterward more slowly.
To produce an arc one-third of an inch long, 80 volts are required. For
further increase, the electromotive force is proportional to it. (Nature,
December, XXVI, p. 215.)

Tommasi has shown that when the are is made to pass between two
metallic tubes, of copper for example, so arranged that a rapid current
of cold water may flow through them, and placed horizontally, the illumi-
nating power is very much weakened, the are is very unstable, it does
not set fire to paper, it appears to be formed of a luminous globule
moving up and down between the rheophores, it is extinguished by
the presence of a magnet, being attracted or repelled according to the
pole presented, and a large amount of ozone is produced. (Comptes
Rendus, xc, p. 716; Phil. Mag., January, V, Xitl, p. 75.)

Jamin has studied the effects produced when the alternating current
of a Gramme machine passes between carbon points in a vacuum.
Gramme machines with alternating currents resemble both batteries and
induction coils, but they differ from batteries by the great intensity of
their currents. Hence, the effects will be those of batteries, with an in-
tensification due to the high tension, and those of the induction coil, with
the advantage of increased quantity. In place, therefore, of a single are
in air several can be maintained; the author has inaintained 60 from a
machine which originally supported only 8. When, now, this alternating
current is used to maintain an are in an electric egg, as soon as the ex-
haustion reaches 12™™ the light begins to spurt out spontaneously from
the entire surface of the carbons, both of them being enveloped with the
blue aureole noticed in Geissler tubes around the negative pole. The
carbons become heated to bright redness throughout, and are rapidly
5O+4 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882

volatilized. The vessel becomes filled with a blue gas similar to iodine
vapor, which deepens, becoming like indigo. The vapors condense on
the sides of the globe, making it opaque. The deposit resembles finely
divided carbon, but dissolves with effervescence in nitric acid. The lumi-
nous effect is more striking when copper electrodes are used. (Comptes
Rendus, XCIV, pp. 1271, 1615; Phil. Mag., July, Supplement, V, x11, p.
538.)

Abdank has invented a new are lamp, which was described by Preece
at the Southampton meeting of the British Association, in which the
reguluting arrangement is separated from the lamp. The lower carbon
is fixed, the upper attached to a brass rod movable in the core of an
electro-magnet and lifted by a clutch when the magnet is charged. The
magnet and carbon holder are fastened to the end of a rack, the pinion
of which is controlled by an electro-magnetic brake. The regulator is
differential in its action, and throws a shunted current on to the elee-
tro-magnet of the brake whenever the resistance between the carbons
becomes too great, thus allowing the carbons to approach. A cut-out
is attached, by which the lamp is taken out of circuit when necessary.
(Nature, September, XXVI, p. 526.)

In his address as chairman of the Council of the Society of Arts, Sie-
mens took for his subject electric lighting and the transmission of force
by electricity, considering the more practical side of the electrical ques-
tion. He made a calculation of the cost required to light the parish of St.
James, with its 30,000 people, 3,000 houses, and 784,000 square yards of
area, and concludes that an expenditure of 12 horse-power per house
would be required. The cost of the electricity he assumes to be in Lon-
don one shilling per 10,000 watts (ampere-volts). Hence, to maintain
64,000 Swan lights it would cost £16 per hour. The total cost of the
plant he puts at £177,000. At the same rate the plant necessary for
the entire city would cost £14,000,000. The cost of each lamp per year
he estimates at 21s. 94d.; while the same light by gas at 2s. 8d. a thou-
sand feet would cost 29s. (Nature, November, XXVU, p. 67.)

In a lecture before the Royal Institution, Swan has discussed the
subject of incandescent lighting with special reference to its economy.
The great economy of high incandescence he strikingly illustrated by
passing through one of his lamps one unit of current. The light ob-
tained was equal to two candles. When one and a half units of ecur-
rent was sent through the lamp, it gave thirty candles; so that for an
increase of current of one-half, involving a doubling of the energy ex-
pended, fifteen times the light was produced. In conjunction with Mr.
Stearn, in 1878, he reached the result that ‘when a well-formed carbon
filament is firmly connected with conducting wires and placed in a
hermetically sealed glass ball perfectly exhausted, the filament suf-
fers no apparent change even when heated to an extreme degree of
whiteness.” ‘The first lamp having this elementary character (a simple
bulb pierced by two platinum wires supporting a filament of carbon)
PHYSICS. 505

ever publicly exhibited was shown in operation at a meeting of the
Literary and Philosophical Society of Manchester, in February, 1879.”
On the question of cost, he claims 200 candles per horse-power; but
calling it 150, we have for the 50 horse-power obtainable from 1 ewt. of
coal, 7,500 candles, as against 3,000 from an equivalent value of gas.
(Nature, August, XXVI, p. 356.)

The experimental committee of the jury of the Paris Electrical Ex-
hibition, of which Tresca was president, appointed the following sub-
committee to make the tests on incandescent lamps: Barker (chairman),
Crookes, Hagenbach, Kundt, and Mascart. They examined the Edison.
the Swan, the Lane Fox, and the Maxim lamps, the only four exhibited,
The following are their results: At 16 candles, the candles produced
per horse-power of current were, for the Edison lamp, 196.4; for the
Swan, 177.9; for*the Lane Fox, 173.6; and for the Maxim, 151.3. At
32 candles the Edison lamp gave 307.25 candles per horse-power of
current; the Swan, 262.49; the Lane Fox, 276.89; and the Maxim,
239.41. Subsequently a committee, consisting of Tresca, Allard, Le
Blane, Joubert, and Potier, made tests of these lamps as collateral to
their tests of machines. Four Swan lamps, six Lane Fox lamps, one
hundred Maxim lamps, and five hundred and twenty-eight Edison lamps
were tested in the same circuit, the following results being the mean of
all these lamps. The results of the tests made by the first committee
refer to the light emitted in a horizontal plane, the direction being 45° to
the plane of the loop. Those of the second are expressed in terms of
mean spherical intensity calculated from the measurements. For com-
parison, therefore, the results of both measurements are given below,
the mean spherical intensities being calculated for the former measure-
ments, the first and second referring to the two committees :

Maxim. Edison. Lane Fox. Swan.
Ist. 2d. st. 2d. 1st. 2d. Ist. ; 2d.
a,

Mean spherical intensity... 1.25 2.80 1.36 1.57 1.16 1.64 1.16 2.32 2.19
Candles perH.P.ofcurrent 118.0 151.0 145.3 172.0 119.5 130.6 122.7 211.1 204.7

“Although the two sets of experiments were made with a different
object, and by methods entirely different, it will be observed that the
figures of the one approach closely those of the other, thus characteriz-
ing very clearly each of the four systems of lamps by their electrical
data.” (Comptes Rendus, November, xcv, p. 946.)

5, Hlectro-Chemistry.

The weight of water decomposed by a current whose strength is one
electro-magnetic unit, passing for one second of time, has been variously
stated. Weber gives it as 0.9376 milligram; Bunsen, as 0.9265; Cas-
selmann, 0.9387; Joule, as 0.9222; and Cazin, as 0.9372. Mascart has
undertaken a new determination of this value. To this end he submit-
ted to electrolysis water acidu'ated with phosphoric acid and solutions
of silver nitrate and copper sulphate. Forthe measurement of current
506 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882.

he used an electro-dynamometer of special construction, consisting of
two flat coils, in the center of which a cylindrical coil was suspended
from the scale-pan of a balance, the axes of the three coils being coin-
cident. As a result the author finds that a current whose strength is
equal to one C. G. S. unit decomposes 0.9373 milligram of water per
second, and, therefore, a fraction equal to 0.9373 ~ 9, or 0.10415 of the
equivalent of any other substance expressed in milligrams. Conversely
the current capable of producing in one second the electrolysis of one
equivalent of a body expressed in milligrams is 96 amperes. Taking
the gram as the unit of weight, the electro-chemical equivalent of water
is 9.373 x 10+. (J. Phys., March, II, I, p. 109.)

Streinitz has assigned to voltaic polarization the production of the
oxygen and hydrogen gases which appear at each of the electrodes
when the discharges of a Leyden jar are passed through water. By the
aid of a quadrant electrometer he has measured the difference of poten-
tial of the electrodes. He finds that when the electrodes are narrow
this difference changes sign if the number of discharges does not ex-
ceed a certain limit. The same inversion appears after a few minutes
with voltaic currents of short duration and disappears when the vol-
tameter is completely polarized. (J. Phys., April, II, 1, p. 202.)

Tommasi has given experimental evidence to disprove Bourgoin’s
statement that water is not an electrolyte. He maintains that water
can be electrolyzed by the current of a very feeble battery, provided
that the heat liberated by the battery is equal to that absorbed by the
water in decomposing into its elements (69 calories). (Comptes Rendus,
April, xciv, p. 948; Phil. Mag., May, V, XitI, p. 377.)

Berthelot has given the results of a large number of electrolytic ex-
periments in two important papers—one on the limits of electrolysis,
and the other on the electrolysis of hydrogen peroxide. In both he
gives the thermo-chemistry of the action which appears to control the
results. (Ann. Chim. Phys., September, V, XXvil, p. 110.)

Gore has investigated minutely the phenomena of the electrolysis of
copper sulphate, and finds that in this, as in nearly all cases of elec-
trolysis, chemical and electro-chemical forces coexist and operate in-
dependently at the same surfaces of liquid and metal. The greatest
obstacle in finding the electro-chemical equivalent of copper is the diffi-
culty of determining how much the ordinary chemical corrosion is de-
creased at the anode or increased at the kathode by the electric current.
The method does not admit of a great degree of accuracy, because the
chemical corrosion of copper, even in a cold neutral solution of copper
sulphate, causes a loss of that metal, and prevents the true weight be-
ing obtained. Hence the method of measuring the strength of a cur-
rent in electric lighting by the electrolysis of a solution of copper sul-
phate must be more or less inaccurate. (Nature, March, xxv, p. 473.)

Bartoli and Papasogli have discovered that when dilute sulphuric
acid is electrolyzed with gas carbon positive electrodes, there is formed
PHYSICS. 507

a solid black amorphous substance, having the composition C,, H, 0,,
and which, from its characteristic property of being transformed into
mellitic acid by oxidizing agents, they call mellogen. If phosphoric
acid be electrolyzed, a similar body is formed, which, since it contains
phosphorus, they call phosphomellogen. (J. Phys., December, II, 1, p.
571.)

Krouchkoll has experimented to determine whether the variation of
the friction produced in the electromotograph of Edison by the passage
of a current is a result due to electrolysis. His apparatus consisted of a
shallow glass dish, having a piece of polished glass at bottom, placed
on a horizontal metal disk, rotated about a vertical axis by means of a
small Gramme machine; a rubber made of a series of small brushes of
platinum wire, fixed in ebonite, rubbed against the glass during the
rotation, tending to carry with it the needle of a sensitive balance, to
which it is fastened. In the dish was sulphuric acid diluted with five
parts of water, which moistened the brushes. One pole of the battery
was connected to the brushes; the other was fastened to a copper strip
immersed in copper sulphate solution to avoid polarization. This solu-
tion was contained in a porous cup, immersed in a Second porous cup con-
taining water and standing in the acid in thedish. On starting the
movement of rotation and adjusting the balance to equilibrium, it is
easy to show by the inclination of the needle that the polarization by
oxygen increases the friction and that polarization by hydrogen dimin-
ishes it. Half a Daniell cell is quite sufficient for the experiment, though
the effect increases with an increase of the electromotive force used.
(Comptes Rendus, July, XCv, p. 177.)

Planté has found that the long process of forming his accumulators is
shortened if they are warmed during charging. The temperature best
for this purpose is between 70° and 80° C., at which limit the opposing
electromotive force is somewhat less than when cold, and the resistance
very much less. He does not find it advantageous to exceed this limit.
Thompson suggests that the reason may be that at the above tempera-
ture the gases are evolved under normal conditions, no ozone being
formed. (Nature, February, xxv, p. 376.)

Gladstone and Tribe have published a series of valuable papers on the
chemistry of the Planté and Faure accumulators, in which they have
considered (1) local action, (2) the charging of the cell; (3) the discharge
of the cell, and (4) the function of sulphate of lead. (Nature, xxv, pp.
221, 461; XXvVI, pp. 251, 268, 342, 596, 602.)

A sub-committee of the experimental jury of the Electrical Exhibition
has tested in the Conservatoire des Arts et Métiers the efficiency of the
Faure secondary battery. Thirty-five accumulators of the spiral form,
each in a stoneware pot 35° high and 25™ in diameter, were charged
in series by the current from a Siemens dynamo driven by a steam en-
gine. The working electromotive force of an accumulator was found to
be from 2.08 to 2.17 volts. The battery was charged for 22 hours 45 min-
508 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882.

utes with a current of the average strength of 8.5 amperes, requiring
1.558 horse-power. The total work expended in charging, therefore, was
6,020,000 kilogrammeters. The battery was then discharged through
eleven Maxim lamps, and required eleven hours. From this it appeared
that 60 per cent. of the energy stored in the accumulators could be re-
covered as electric current. (Nature, January, March, xxv, pp. 299, 476.)

Ayrton and Perry have published an account of their experiments on
the Faure accumulator, using a single cell containing 81 pounds of red
lead. It gave on discharge a mean current of 18 amperes for eighteen
hours, or a total work of 1,440,000 foot-pounds, equivalent to a horse-
power for 43 minutes; thus giving a capacity of 18,000 foot-pounds per
pound of red Jead. They find that up to a million foot-pounds the loss
in storage need not be greater than 18 per cent., provided the charging
and discharging be slow. (Phil. Mag., July, V, XIv, p. 41.)

Ayrton, in a lecture delivered at the London Institution in March
upon the storage of energy, discussed at length the economy of the
accumulator for commercial purposes, as lighting and power. (Nature,
March, xxv, p. 495.)

De Kabath has devised anew form of secondary battery which fs
practically a Planté, but which has been specially devised for exposing
avery great surface. Corrugated strips of lead are packed closely to-
gether to form the plates. The forming is done with the current as in
the Planté battery. (Nature, June, XxvI, p. 180.)

At the Montreal meeting of the American Association, Barker pre-
sented a paper giving the results of his experiments with the Faure and
the Planté secondary batteries. He takes the ground that the action of
the battery is a purely chemical one, ‘‘the amount of electricity obtained
from 2 given secondary battery being proportional to the amount of
electrolytic products deposited upon its plates.” The Faure cells used
were of the type exhibited at the Paris Exhibition, each exposing about
1.5 square meters of surface, and weighing 17 kilograms. The electro-
motive force was about two volts as a mean, and the internal resistance
0.02 ohm. In charging the 32 cells employed, the current strength was
generally 15 amperes, a specially-devised cut-out being put in circuit
to prevent the discharge of the battery through the machine if from any
cause the electromotive force of the latter fell. The author concludes
that to the very considerable local action which takes place in these
batteries, and to the want of uniformity in the different cells, is due in
large measure their low efficiency. (Proc. Am. Assoc. Adv. Sci., 1882,
XXXI, 207.)
CHEMISTRY.

By H. Carrineton Botton, Ph. D.,
Professor of Chemistry in Trinity College, Hartford, Conn.

The year 1882 is marked by great industry in all departments of
chemistry; no startling announcements have been made, but several
extremely interesting syntheses of organic bodies have been accom-
plished, viz, tyrosine and uric acid, both of the animal organism. Great
activity is noted in the revision of the atomic weights. Progress has
been made in unraveling the knotty problem of the rare earths in cerite,
samarskite, and gadolinite, but no satisfactory conclusions have been
reached as to the existence of the larger number of elementary bodies
announced since 1877.

In the brief space at our disposal we can barely note the salient fea-
tures of the year’s work in a series of short abstracts, and these we con-
fine chiefly to pure chemistry, paying little attention to analytical and
industrial chemistry. Periodicalliterature, devoted exclusively to chem-
istry and its applications, is becoming voluminous; the fifteen principal
journals of America, England, France, and Germany publish annually
about 18,000 pages; in this rough estimate journals of physics and
transactions of societies are not included, and both classes of serials
contain much chemical material. We need hardly say that no attempt
is made in the following pages to chronicle the prodigious amount and
variety of work contained in these and other sources of information.

PHYSICAL AND INORGANIC CHEMISTRY.

On the Reciprocal Solutions of Liquids.—Wladimir Alexejeff has de-
voted eight years to a study of the mutual solutions of mixed liquids,
ana he finds that the hypothesis proposed by Dossios is subject to ex-
ceptions. The latter stated that the mutual solubility of liquids in.
creases with the rise in temperature, but Alexejeff finds that in certain
bodies (isobutyl alcohol, for example) the solubility diminishes with an
increase of temperature. He also discovers that the solubility decreases
to a definite point and then increases again, or, in other words, that a
minimum of solubility exists, just as certain solids have a maximum of
solubility.

When phenol and water are brought together two layers form; the

lower is a solution of phenol in water, the upper a solution of water in
509
510 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882.

phenol. Now the mutual solubility of these liquids increases with the
temperature, and at a certain point (68° for pure phenol) the two liquids
mix in all proportions. Many liquids, such as aniline and water, follow
the same law; solids, too, obey the same law, as is shown by the mutual
action of water and salicylic acid. The author claims that the solutions
of solid and of liquid salicylic acid exhibit a true physical isomerism.
(Bull. Soc. Chim., XXXVIII, p. 145.)

Molecular Structure and Physical Properties.—That a close connection
exists between the structure of molecules and the physical properties
of the substances composed of these molecules is becoming more and
more evident. Pawlewski finds that the ‘critical temperatures” of
isomeric ethers are very nearly identical, and that isomers containing
doubly-linked atoms of carbon have a higher critical temperature than
those in the molecules of which the carbon atoms are singly linked.
(Berichte d. chem. Ges., XV, p. 460.)

Determination of Gas Densities —H. Goldschmidt and Victor Meyer
have devised a simple method for,determining gas densities in an expe-
ditious manner. The process was employed at first in connection with
experiments made on the density of cyanogen at various temperatures,
but is applicable to many bodies. The vessel employed is first filled
with pure, dry air of the temperature at which the density is to be
taken; the air is then displaced by hydrochloric acid gas (free from air),
collected over water and measured. The hydrochloric acid gas is in
turn replaced by air. The gas to be examined is then introduced until
all the air is expelled, and this gas is again displaced by hydrogen, or
by air, and collected in a potash bulb containing a liquid capable of
completely absorbing it. The increase in weight of the potash bulb
gives the weight of the gas; the weight of an equal volume of air at the
same temperature is determined from the volume collected, and the
quotient gives the density sought.

The apparatus consists of a glass cylinder 200™™ long, 30™™ in diam-
eter, with a capillary tube at each end, the extremities of which tubes
rise above the upper end of the cylinder and are bent at right angles.
This apparatus is heated in a glass tube with a bulbous extremity
400™™ Jong, and of sufficient size to contain the liquid, whose boiling
point is the temperature of measurement. The liquids used in the outer
vessel are water, aniline, amyl benzoate, and diphenylamine. For
higher temperatures boiling sulphur and penta-sulphide of phosphorus
are used, in which case the inner vessel receives a spherical form, and
the outer vessel is made of iron.

The authors obtained by this process a density of 1.53 for carbonic
anhydride, and of 1.26 for hydrochloric acid gas, figures exactly equal
to the theoretical values.

The apparatus can also be employed as an air thermometer. Sulphur
was found to boil at 426° C. (Berichte d. chem. Ges., XV, p. 137.)
CHEMISTRY. 511

Chemical Reactions in the Leclanché Cell_—Dr. Edward Divers has
presented the following reactions: Zine is slowly acted upon by a solu-
tion of ammonium chloride, and crystals of zinco-diammonium-chloride
are formed ; this is decomposed by water alone into an insoluble and a
soluble portion, probably as shown in this equation:
3Zu (NH; Cl), + 2 OH, = 2 HO Zn NH; Cl + (Cl Hy N)2. Zn (NH; Cl)2

Zinco-diammonium-chloride dissolved in solution of ammonium chlo-
ride acts gradually on artificially prepared hydrogen manganite, H, O,
Mn, causing manganese to go into solution, and the precipitation of
zinc on the manganite, probably thus:

(NH; Cl), Zn + H, O,Mn, = 2 NH, Cl+ Zn O, Mn,

These experimental facts lead the author to the following theory of
the action of the cell:

Primary action:—Formation of hydrogen manganite and _ zinco-
diammonium-chloride.

= Sy
Mn, O, + 2 HNH; Cl+ Zn
become Mn, O, H, + (NH; Cl), Zn.

Secondary actions, causing polarization.—The hydrogen manganite acts
locally upon the zinco-diammonium chloride solution, and forms zine
manganite and ammonium chloride; this proceeds more rapidly by gal-
vanic action when the cell is at work, thus:

— te
Mn, O,+ Zn (NH; Cl), + Zn
become Mn, O, Zn (NH; Cl), Zn.

The zine manganite and the hydrogen manganite by coating over
the manganese dioxide, protect it from the primary action of the am-
monium chloride and zine, and thus cause polarization of the cell.

Secondary actions, causing depolarization.—The ammonium chloride
dissolves manganous and zine oxides out of the manganite, the manga-
nous oxide liberating ammonia: ;

Mn, O, Zn + 4 Cl H, N= Mn O, + 2 OH, + Cl, Mn + (NH; Cl), Zn +
2NHs3.

The manganous chloride dissolves in the presence of the free ammonia
as a double chloride of manganese and ammonium. By the solution of
these oxides the manganese dioxide of the manganite becomes active
again. The depolarizing action proceeds slower than the polarizing,
and therefore the battery requires to be left uncircuited, in order to
recover its full power after use. (Chem. News, XLVI, p. 259.)

Atomic Weights of the Elements.

Carbon.—Roscoe has redetermined the atomic weight of carbon by
the direct combustion of the diamond. If O = 15.96, he obtained as a
512 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882.

mean of six experiments C = 11.9757. Dumas and Stas in 1840 ob-
tained 11.9708. (Comptes Rendus, CIv, p. 1180.)

Uranium.—Zimmermann has prepared metallic uranium by Péligot’s
method and studied its properties. Its specific gravity is 18.685, and
its specific heat between 99° and 0° is .02765; the latter number multi-
plied by 240 gives a product of 6.64, which agrees with the mean atomic
heat indicated by Dulong and Petit’s law. This settles the controversy
concerning the correct value in favor of 240 and in accordance with
Mendelejeff’s classification. (Berichte d. chem. Ges., XV, p. 847.)

Glucinum.—Dr. James Blake thinks that the evidence derived from the
physiological action of the salts of glucinum may be of use in determin-
ing its true position among the elements. He finds that the effects pro-
duced by the introduction into the blood of salts of Be are the same as
those caused by the salts of alumina and of ferric oxide. He regards
glucinum asa member of the aluminium group of metals. (Chem. News,
XLV, p- Li.)

Aluminium.—The atomic weight of this element has been subjected
to a painstaking revision by Prof. J. W. Mallet. The general mean of
30 experiments gives Al = 27.032, with a probable error of + 0.0045.
[Oxygen = 15.961.] (Chem. News, XLV, pp. 256 et seq.)

Rubidium.—Charles T. Heycock has redetermined the atomic weight
of rubidium with the view of testing its relation to Prout’s hypothesis.
The figures obtained by titration of the chlorine in pure chloride of
rubidium are 85.344; and those by titration of the bromide are 85.387,
results which lead the author to the conclusion that at present rubidium
cannot be regarded as conforming to Prout’s hypothesis. (Report Y
British Assoc.,in Nature, XXV1, p. 467.)

Didymium. Lae has detoraaned the atomic weight of didymium
as 146.18, and that of lanthanum as 138.88. (J. Chem. Soc., XLI, p. 68.)

Yttrium has been prepared by Cleve free from ana its atomic
weight redetermined. He assigns the value88.9 to Y’’” when O= 15.9633,
(Comptes Rendus, December 11, 1882.)

Thorium.—L. F. Nilson has redetermined the atomic weight of tho-
rium by ignition of the carefully purified sulphate: Th (SO,)..9 H,O,
and obtains as a mean of ten experiments 232.40. (Berichte d. chem.
Ges., XV, p. 2519.)

A recalculation of the atomic weights, by Prof. E. W. Clarke.—Brief
mention must be made in this connection of the systematic recalculation
of the atomic weights carried out by Professor Clarke and published by
the Smithsonian Institution as Part V, of the Constants of Nature.
Chemists are under great obligations for this invaluable treatise.

Composition of the Atmosphere.

Several chemists have carried on independently more or less elaborate
researches on this subject. Reiset has made numerous determinations
of the amount of carbonic anhydride in the atmosphere, and finds the
CHEMISTRY. 513

values usually given (4 to 6 volumes in 10,000) much too high. He gives
2,962 vols. in 10,000 as the mean of 220 experiments made near Dieppe.
The ratios obtained in Paris are somewhat higher, being 3,168 vols. of
earbonic anhydride in 10,0000f air. (Ann. Chim. et Phys. (5) XXVI, pp. 245
et seq.)

A. Muntz and E. Aubin have also made determinations of the pro-
portions of carbonic anhydride in the atmosphere at Paris and near
Vincennes, and the results (which confirm Reiset’s figures) show that
the variations in the amount of carbonic anhydride are due to local in-
fluences, and that in general the heavier gas is quite uniformly distrib-
uted throughout the lower strata of the atmosphere. These chemists
also examined the air of elevated regions, conducting experiments at
the altitude of 2,877 meters (9,422 feet) in the Pyrenees. Although the
direction of the wind and state of the atmosphere varied greatly during
their experiments, the proportion of carbonic anhydride was found to
be constant, being about 2.86 vols. in 10,000 of air. For the sake of
comparison the air was examined in two valleys at the foot of the
Pyrenees, one near Pierrefitte (507 meters above the sea-level) and the
other near Luz (730 meters); at the first station the air was found to
contain 2.79 vols. of carbonic anhydride in 10,000, and at the second
2.69 in 10,000, the latter determination being made in the midst of lux-
urious vegetation. Muntz and Aubin conclude that carbonic anhydride
is very uniformly distributed throughout the atmosphere, and regard
their results as confirming Reiset’s statements and Schloesing’s theories
concerning the circulation of carbonic anhydride upon the surface of
the earth. (Comptes Rendus, xcuit, p. 797.)

Dr. Edward W. Morley has devised a method for accurate and rapid
analyses of air, and has made a series of daily analyses in duplicate of
air collected at Hudson, Ohio, for six months, beginning with January
1, 1880, and one for six months and twenty days, beginning October 1,
1880. For details of the apparatus and process we refer to the original
paper. Each pair of analyses occupied about 70 minutes of time, and
the mean error of a single analysis for half a month was less than the
thousandth part of one per cent. By comparing the results of this long
series of daily determinations with the data obtained from the thrice-
daily maps of the state of the weather furnished by the United States
Signal Service Bureau, Dr. Morley finds that most of the variations in
the amount of oxygen are caused by the vertical descent of air from
high elevations. This descent of cold air seems to be the effect of
sudden and severe depressions of temperature rather than the cause;
the descent follows the cold by a day or two, and the decrease in amount
of oxygen begins simultaneously with the descent from above. (Proce.
Am. Assoc. Adv. Sci., 1881; abstract in Chem. News, XL, pp. 245, 284 et
8¢q.)

H. Mis. 26——33
514 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882.

List of New Lleoments announced since 1877.

The six years ending in 1882 have been unusually prolific in new
elements, or at least in announcements of the same, for it must be con-
ceded that most of them will fail to stand the test of more thorough
investigation. These alleged discoveries are widely scattered in pe-
riodical literature, and the following list may prove useful for reference:

List of elementary suistunces announced from 1877 to 1882.

Dato. Name. Source. Discoverer.
= .|

| 1877 | Neptunium ..-.-.-. Columbiter <csean=--- >] Hermann.

i Lavoesium . ...... eaoltGh ieee cacdebocdaac Prat

j Mosandrum ....-.- Samarskite. ......-.---.| J. L. Smith.

| Davy ume sce == PJatinumM\OLess) =< ee | Sergius Kern.

, 1878 | ‘‘Newearths” Unnamed mineral. ....-- | Gerland.

Bp eae Gadolinite ...---.-..--.. | Soret.

\ Philippiam | Benet Samarskite ..2.- 22-52. Delafontaine.

Decipium.......~. Samarskite) ..<).-jcees<~.: | Delafontaine.
Vtterbram 222 2-- Gadolinite:.----2:2--..:. Marignac.

| 1879 | Scandium......... Gadolinite ....-..-... . | Nilson.
Norwegium ...... Gersdorflite....-. ...--- Dahil.
Wiralinmy.-<-2 52. - Planum eases seen Guyard.
Samarium s..----- SanISrsSkites fo) seneeer Lecoq de Boisbaudran.
Barcenium ....--. (Misapprehension) ...--- Wagner's Juahresbericht.
Thulitmes---5ss-- Gadolinite: S2..-ee--s- e | Cleve.
Holmium <:))<45 2) Gadolinite,.----...-.2. .| Cleve.
Columbium. ....-. Samarskite ............ Ae Geasmith:
Rogerium......--- Samarakite! dia. 22) 52h | J. L. Smith.
Vesbium..---. eee I Li ees tee eee ae basa | Seacchi.

| 1880 | Comesinm .....-..- | Kaemmerer.

| Waland Gens. se Gadolinite ..2cs-sse-6-5. | Marignac.

1 1881 | Actinium... :.:-.. LAC ORES) 2206 ora saaes Phipson.

¢ |. 1882 | Didymium® ...... Gadolinite:s--4--ee sero. = “| Cleve.

New BHlementary Substances —At the meeting of the Russian Chemical
Society held October 20, 1881 (and reported in the Bulletin de la Société
Chimique de Paris, for August, 1882), Mendelejeff, the distinguished au-
thor of the periodic law, remarked that only two of the recently an-
nounced elements—scandium and ytterbium—had been satisfactorily
confirmed. These have been obtained in a pure state by Nilson, and
neither of them has absorption spectra. All the other metals seem to
be mixtures, as was the case with the old erbium of Bunsen and Bahr,
and which proves to contain Se, Yb, Er, Tr, and other elements. Sean-
dium corresponds in its atomic weight and properties to ekabor, a hypo-
thetical substance, the existence of which had been foreseen by the
speaker.

Mendelejeff expressed himself convinced that his periodic law will find
further confirmation in the results to be yet obtained in studying the
elements of cerite and of gadolinite. (Bull. Soe. Chim., XXXviII, p. 140.)

A new clement accompanying didymium is announced by the Swedish
chemist, Prof. P. T. Cleve. He has long studied the rare earths existing
in cerite, gadolinite, and similar minerals, and the behavior of the oxide
of didymium obtained from the latter has led him to suspect the presence
of a new element. In the beginning of the year 1882 he submitted to
fractional precipitations about 200 grams of didymium oxide, and sepa-
rated from the yttria earths with potassium sulphate by repeated pre-
cipitations; the atomic weight of the first fraction was 146, that of the
CHEMISTRY. 515

last 142. The examination of the ignition spectrum of the last frac-
tion showed, besides strong rays of didymium and lanthanum, new rays,
among which is a very strong one having the wave-length of 4333.5. This
ray belongs neither to didymium, lanthanum, yttrium, erbium, terbium,
nor to Marignac’s Ya, and is regarded by Cleve as peculiar to a new
element which he designates provisionally by Di?. (Comptes Rendus;
abstract in Chem. News, XLV, p. 273.)

Soon after the publication of the above statement by Professor Cleve,
B. Brauner printed a note in the Chemical News (46, 16), in which he
shows that he anticipated the Swedish chemist in discovering a new
element accompanying didymium in cerite. His experiments were made
in Professor Roscoe’s laboratory, and some of his results were published
in the Anzeiger der kais. Academie der Wissenschaften (October 6, 1881).
Brauner thinks that oxide of didymium, as usually known to chemists,
consists of a mixture of at least three elements, true didymium having
an atomic weight —145.4, Cleve’s element, more basic than didymium,
and a third with a higher atomic weight is less basic than didymium.
This last may possibly be samarium.

Professor Cleve in a still later communication states that continued
researches by himself and Thalén have convinced him that the ray
4333.5 belongs to the spectrum of lanthanum, and that the existence of
a new element is very improbable. (Chem. News, XLVI, p. 43.)

The earths contained in samarskite have been studied by Professor
_ iH. E. Roscoe, with the object of ascertaining the existence or non-ex-
istence of Delafontaine’s philippium. Roscoe worked up 1,500 grams of
samarskite and obtained about 60 grams of oxides containing terbium,
erbium, yttrium, and philippium (?). The oxides were converted into
formiates, and these salts carefully examined to obtain pure philippium
salt, but the author failed to get an oxide having a constant atomic
weight equal to 122 (claimed by Delafontaine). The numbers varied
between the atomic weights of terbia and yttria. Roscoe then tried the
following conclusive experiment: 3 grams of terbia, having an atomic
weight of 147.9, and 3 grams of crude yttria, with an atomic weight of
101.4, were respectively converted into formiates. Of each of these two
formiates, two-thirds were brought into solution separately while the
other third of the terbium formiate was mixed with the remaining third
of yttrium formiate, and the mixture dissolved. Each of the three so-
lutions was then mixed with an equal bulk of aleohol and allowed to
stand for the same length of time. The two solutions, containing re-
spectively terbia and yttria, gave crystals presenting the ordinary ap-
pearance of formiates of the metals in question, but the third solution
containing the mixed formiates deposited rhombic prisms exactly like
the crystals which Delafontaine claims are peculiar to the formiate of
philippium. The non-existence of philippium is thus undoubtedly es-
tablished. (Chem. News, XLV, p. 184.)
516 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882.

Researches on other Elements, ete.

Thorium.—Two important memoirs have been published by L. F. Nil-
son on thorite and its chief constituent, thorium. He worked upon two
kilograms of the rare mineral and prepared avery pure thorium sulphate,
from which he made a determination of the atomic weight of the element.
(See paragraph on atomic weights.) He determined the specific gravity
of thoria, finding the figures 10.2199. He also prepared the metal by
the reduction of potassio-thorium chloride with sodium in the iron appa-
ratus he had previously used for beryllium. The metal obtained formed
a gray shining powder showing distinct crystals under the microscope;
it is unaltered by exposure to air up to 100-120° C.; when heated higher
it burns brilliantly, forming a snow-white oxide. The metal burns in
chlorine, bromine, and iodine gases, yielding sublimates; it is slowly
attacked by dilute sulphuric acid, and by dilute nitric; concentrated
nitric acid has very little effect. Hydrochloric acid dissolves the metal
readily. The metal has the specific gravity of about 11, results being
not perfectly satisfactory. (Berichte d. chem. Ges., XV, pp. 2519-2547.)

Properties of Pure Metallic Aluminium.—Prof. J. W. Mallet, in the
course of his researches on the atomic weight of this metal, required a
quantity in a very pure condition, and this gave an opportunity of study-
ing its properties. Crude (commercial) aluminium contains:

DU oa De iy Me ph Mamta Pree sinks yh come PA NIA Dor es ON 96. 89
1A Te a ie gee aE eg pea Sane ae dear ein ee My 1. 84
YD ce: Savage every s) SA oS niet ia here oe oa: Rae eat eae _trace.
SRO AER EU lege een UM AER Ras SRG ANB, 2 GRE EEN NN of cr 127

100. 00

This was converted into bromide by treatment with liquid bromine,
and the product purified by fractional distillation. It was then reduced
by sodium ip a crucible lined with a mixture of purified and dried
alumina, with sodium aluminate. The metallic globules were again
fused and further purified with hydrochloric acid. The metal thus ob-
tained was perceptibly whiter than the commercial article, also softer,
more malleable, and had a fracture with some appearance of fibrous
silkiness. Its specific gravity at 4° C. is 2.583. Its specific heat is
0.2253 as a mean for the range of temperature 0°-100° C. Attempts
were made to roughly estimate the fusibility, and the pure metal seems
to be a little less fusible than the commercial article. It also presents
greater resistance to the prolonged action of solvents—acids and alka-
lies—than the impure metal. (Chem. News, XLVI, p. 178.)

Iridium, according to Mr. John Holland, can be alloyed with phos-
phorus at a high heat, and the alloy fuses at a comparatively low tem-
perature. The fused metal contains, according to Prof. F. W. Clarke,
about 74 per cent. of phosphorus. The phosphorus is removed by heating
CHEMISTRY. 517

in a Hessian crucible with line. The iridium melted by this process is
compact and crystalline; it is harder than the natural metal, being
nearly as hard as the ruby; it has the color of steel and is not attacked
by acids. (Chen. News, XLv, p. 168.)

Preparation and Properties of Metallic Cesium.—Owing partly to the
extreme scarcity of material Bunsen’s attempts to obtain cesium in me-
tallic form were unsuccessful, but Carl Setterberg, availing himself of
the tons of alums obtained in Marquart’s establishment as a secondary
product in the manufacture of lithium compounds from lepidolite, has
isolated this rare metal and studied its properties. Setterberg prepared
in 14 days 40 kilograms of rubidium alum and 10 kilograms of czesium.
He obtained metallic rubidium by decomposing the hydrogen-tartrate
with calcium carbonate and sugar, in a mercury flask, but attempts to
prepare cesium by a similar process were futile. By the electrolysis of
the cyanide of cesium mixed with barium cyanide in the ratio of 4 mole-
cules to one, Setterberg obtained the metal quite free from impurities.
Metallic cesium resembles closely the other alkali metals; is silver
white, malleable, and very soft at ordinary tem peratures. Thrown
upon water it floats around and decomposes it with evolution of heat and
light, in the same manner as potassium and rubidium. It inflames easily
when exposed to the air unless protected by a film of oxide or by a layer
of petroleum. The metal melts between 26° C. and 27° C.; its specific
gravity is 1.88 at 15°C. Examined in the spectroscope it showed only
traces of sodium as an impurity.

Setterberg failed to detect new elementary substances in the residues
from which he extracted the rubidium and cesium salts. (Liebig’s An-
nalen, CCXI, p. 100.)

Nascent Hydrogen.—D. Tommasi, by numerous experiments on the
reducing power of nascent hydrogen, has been led to the conclusion
that its peculiar power varies with the reaction by which it is generated.
Hence, hydrogen in a nascent state may be regarded as hydrogen +
ealories; or H + a, in which a has different values according to the
source of the hydrogen; thus:

SO,H, + Zn + aq; a = 38 cal.
SO,H, + Cd + aq; a = 23.8 cal.
SO,H. + Mg + aq; a = 112 eal.

The hydrogen increases in activity with the increase in value of a;
for sodium amalgam it is 112 cal. (Bull. Soc. Chim., xxxviu, p. 150.)

Preparation of pure Nitrogen.—Attempts to remove the last traces of
oxygen from atmospheric air by means of phosphorus, potassium pyro-
gallate, hyposulphites, potassiumsodium alloy, and red-hot copper prov-
ing unavailing, Dr. Walter Flight found that it can be effected by pass-
ing the gas over a large surface of freshly precipitated ferrous hydrate.
The latter reagent he prepares by adding a strong solution of 80 grams
518 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882.

of caustic potash to one of 200 grams of ferrous sulphate. The nitrogen
thus treated failed to develop a brown color with potassium pyrogallate.
(Ohem. News, XLV, p. 105.)

Behavior of Nitrogen in the Distillation of Coal.—Text-books usually
state that coal contains about 2 per cent. of nitrogen, which comes off
as ammonia when the coal is heated in closed vessels. Prof. W. Foster,
however, finds that only a small fraction of the total nitrogen comes off
as ammonia. In an experiment with coal containing 1.73 per cent. of
nitrogen, only 14.5 per cent. of this amount was evolved as ammonia,
1.56 per cent. as cyanogen, 35.26 remained unaltered, and 48.68 of the
whole amount remained in the coke. (Chem. News, XLV, p. 299.)

Presence of Arsenic in Bismuth Subnitrate.—Of fourteen samples of
bismuth subnitrate examined by R. H. Chittenden and 8S. W. Lambert,
only one was found to be perfectly free from arsenic. The average con-
tent of poison in the samples was .013 per cent. or 13 mgms. (about two-
tenths of a grain) of As, O;in 100 grams of bismuth. The subnitrate of
bismuth is extensively used in medicine, and though it may not contain
arsenic in sufficient quantity to be in itself injurious, the presence of the
poison is greatly to be deplored. Fortunately, as the further experi-
ments of the authors show, the arsenic is not readily absorbed into the
system when combined with the bismuth preparation. (Am. Chem. J.,
III, p. 396.)

A new Ozichloride of Sulphur.—J. Ogier, by heating to 250° C. in
sealed tubes a mixture of equal weights of chloride of sulphur and
chloride of sulphuryle, obtained the body 8, OCI,; it forms a dark red
liquid, boiling at 60° and having a specific gravity at 0° of 1.656. Its
formation is explained by the equation:

28, Cl + 2S0O, Cl = 28, OC], + SO,+ 8

It is decomposed by water, forming a precipitate of sulphur, sul-
phurous anhydride, sulphuric acid, bydrochloric acid, and thio-acids.
(Bull. Soc. Chim., XXXVU, p. 293.)

An abundant source of selenium, according to P. Kienlen, exists in
the crude hydrochloric acid condensed in Glover’s towers. The selen-
ium is derived from the pyrites, and being volatile at a red heat is car-
ried over by the hydrochloric acid gas during the calcination of the
salt cake, and condenses in the first recipients in the form of a red-
dish mud; this mud, when dried, contains in some cases from 41 to 45
per cent. of selenium. The author extracts the selenium from this
deposit by acting upon it with chlorine, which converts it into a tetra-
chloride, and this, in the presence of water and chlorine, is transformed
into selenic acid. The acid liquid obtained is then precipitated with
hydrogen sodium sulphite and purified. (Bull. Soe. Chim., XXXVII, p.
441,
CHEMISTRY. 519

Presence of Tellurium in Copper.—Prof. Th. Egleston has detected
tellurium in commercial copper to the extent of about 0.1 per cent. A
surprisingly small quantity renders the copper red-short, and conse-
quently worthless for rolling. (Trans. Am. Inst. Mining Engineers, Har-
risburg Meeting, Oct., 1882.)

Complex inorganie Acids.—Dr. Wolcott Gibbs has published a con-
tinuation of his remarkable researches on the complex inorganie acids.
He has demonstrated that inorganic compounds possess an unexpected
degree of complexity, and has entered a very wide field of research, yield-
ing arich harvest. After discussing in detail several phospho-molyb-
dates, he describes the preparation of the arsenio-molybdate having the
composition:

16 MoOs. As,O;5. 5 (NH4)2 O. H.O + 8 aq.

The study of these two series (phospho- and arsenio-molybdates)
leads to the following general results:

1. The phospho-molybdates form a series of which the lowest term
eontains five atoms of molybdic to one of phosphoric oxide, and the
highest twenty-four atoms of the former to one of the latter.

2. Asin the case of the phospho-tungstates, the greater number of
the molybdenum compounds contain an even number of atoms of tung-
stie acid. The homologizing term is, therefore, 2 MoO, for these cases.

3. By far the greater number of phospho-molybdates contain three
atoms of fixed base (old style), or, in more modern language, may be
considered as derived from acids containing six atoms of hydroxyl.
Anhydrous compounds of this type occur, and are not always simply
residues obtained by heating salts which may be considered as acid, as
containing, for example, 3 R,O. 3 H,O. It seems, therefore, necessary
to admit the existence of acide of the general type n MoQ;. P,O;. 3 H,O.

4. On the other hand, while no single phospho-molybdate containing
more than three atoms of fixed base for one of phosphoric oxide has
been obtained in a state of indubitable purity, there is probably at least
one salt with six or more atoms of fixed base, viz:

22 MoO3. P,O;. 7 AgoO + 14 aq.

5. Negative evidence concerning the probable non-existence of a
series of phospho- or arsenio-molybdates containing more than three
atoms of fixed base, must not be too highly regarded.

6. As in the case of the phospho-tungstates, there exists a class of
phospho-molybdates in which the ratio of the number of atoms of base
to that of the number of atoms of phosphoric oxide is as 5:2, the num-
ber of atoms of molybdic oxide being even.

Dr. Gibbs presents a series of structural formule which explain all
degrees of basicity which appear to be possible under the general con-
ditions of the problem. For these and other details we refer to his origi-
nal paper. (Am. Chem. J., 11, p. 402.)
520 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882.

Constitution of Bleaching Powder.—Chemists have devoted much labor
to the determination of the exact constitution of bleaching powder, and
have arrived at results expressed in a great variety of formule.

Thorpe gives: Ca;H,O,Cl, (= CaCl,O.+ CaCl, + CaH,0, + 2 H,0);
Rose gives : (CaCl],,Ca,0,) CaO,Cl, + 4 H.O; Kolb after a very thorough
investigation: (2 CaO Cl,H,O), CaH,O,. Odling proposed the formula
Cl
OC!
and this view has been quite generally adopted. Stahlschmidt regards
bleaching powder as calcium hydroxychloride,

OH

Ca i OCI,

t.e., calcium hydroxide, CaH,O, in which one atom of hydrogen is
replaced by chlorine.

The question has been again investigated by Dr. Karl Kraut, who
examined the action of chlorine on lithium hydroxide and obtained a
compound very similar to the calcium analogue. When chlorine gas
was brought in contact with the melted lithium hydroxide, the latter
increased only 1 per cent. in weight in 44 hours, but by the addition of
eryStallized lithia in such quantities that the mixture contained about
1.4 per cent. H,O the action of the chlorine was hastened. The reaction
is as follows:

4 LiOH + 2 Cl = LiCl + LiOCl + 2 LiOH + H,O

This equation was confirmed by analysis of the product. The lithium
bleaching powder reacts with carbonic anhydride exactly like the cal-
cium compound, 7. ¢., it is decomposed with liberation of chlorine. It
also behaves with chlorine just like the calcium compound. Since, how-
ever, lithium is a mono-valent element, one atom of the metal cannot
simultaneously bind chlorine and the radical of hypochlorous acid, and
Odling’s manner of representing the constitution of bleaching powder
is inapplicable. Besides, the lithium bleaching powder contains lithium
chloride ready formed. The author therefore concludes that bleaching
powder is a mixture of calcium hypochlorite, calcium chloride, and cai-
cium hydrate. (Liebig’s Annalen, CCXIV, p. 354.)

Ca }

Tead peroxide can be advantageously prepared, according to Fehr-
mann, by decomposing a concentrated solution of chloride of lead at 50°
or 60° ©. with a solution of bleaching powder. The latter is added un-
til the filtrate no longer shows a brown color when tested with an ad-
ditional quantity of the bleaching powder. The lead peroxide is well
washed and collected on a filter. It is nearly black, and very pure.
The acetate of lead does not yield such good results as the chloride.
(Berichte d. chem. Ges., XV, p. 1882.)
CHEMISTRY. 521

Determination of Organic Matter in Potable Water.

Prof. J. W. Mallet, in compliance with the instructions of the National
Board of Health, has made a thorough investigation of the chemical
methods in use for the determination of organic matter in the potable
waters. Assisted by Mr. W. A. Noyes, Dr. Charles Smart, and Dr. J.
A. Tanner, he examined the merits and demerits of the ‘ combustion
process,” the  albuminoid-ammonia process,” and the ‘ permanganate
process.” The special conclusions as to the combustion process may be
briefly stated : The combustion itself, carried out according to Frank-
land’s directions, is a process of great delicacy and satisfactory in trained
hands; it requires constant practice to secure good results; the defect-
ive point is the failure of the evaporation to leave a residue represent-
ing the original organic matter of the water, a loss in carbon and a gain
in nitrogen being constant errors; the dissociation of ammonia salts
during the evaporation occasions a loss of nitrogen; in the presence of
nitrates the difficulties of combustion are great and as yet insuperable ;
finally, the combustion process cannot be considered as “ determining”
the carbon and nitrogen of the organic matter in water in a sense to
justify the claim of “absolute” value for its results which has been de-
nied to those of all other methods.

The special conclusions as to the albuminoid-ammonia process are as
follows: In the determination of both “free” and “ albuminoid” ammo-
nia there is a loss resulting from imperfect condensation of the ammonia
during distillation ; when ureais present some ammonia is easily formed
by boiling with sodium carbonate, and this vitiates the determination
of “free” ammonia; in the distillation with alkaline permanganates
the nitrogenous matter sometimes fails to be completely acted upon be-
fore the contents of the retort is nearly reduced to dryness, and great
uncertainty results; the value of the results by this process depends
more upon watching the progress and rate of evolution of the ammonia
than upon determining its total amount.

The special conclusions as to the permanganate process are: The re-
sults obtained by the Tidy method, and by Kubel’s modification of the
same, differ irregularly, the latter usually giving much higher figures;
the results obtained by the Tidy process are lable to variations with
the atmospheric temperature prevailing at the time the process is ap-
plied; the amount of oxygen consumed cannot be taken as a measure
either of the organic carbon or of the total organic matter, though a
general resemblance may be traced between strongly marked results,
high or low, for the consumption of oxygen on the one hand and inor-
ganic cahen (by the combustion process) on the other; the process is
capable of giving more valuable information by watching the rate and
progress of the oxidation of organic matter present than by any single
determination of the absolute amount of oxygen consumed in a given
time. (Am. Chem. J., Iv, p. 341.)
522 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882.

Use of Quicklime in Blasting.

An interesting application of the force resulting from the expansion
due to hydration is recorded in Nature. To obviate the danger at-
tending the use of explosive substances in coal mines, the following
process has been successfully employed in Derbyshire; A series of
holes six feet apart and about three feet in depth are drilled into the
coal at the proper points; these holes are then filled with cylinders of
compressed quicklime, each 24 inches in diameter and 4} inches long;
each hole receives seven of these blocks. A groove in each cylinder
admits the insertion of a 43-inch pipe which extends a few inches beyond
the aperture of the drilled hole; through this pipe water is forced by a
small hand pump. Each hole is of course firmly tamped with paper
and rubbish. Soon after the water is introduced a sound as of escap-
ing steam is heard, here and there the tamping is blown out, and in a
few minutes the whole mass of coal is thrown out from the face upon
“sprags,” short timber props placed to receive it. The time required
in the various operations is as follows: drilling 12 minutes, charging
4 minutes, watering 2 minutes, total 17 minutes for each bore-hole.
(Nature, XXVI, p. 298.)

ORGANIC CHEMISTRY.

Formaldehyde (or oxymethylene) has acquired great importance within
a short period, the researches of Baeyer, Wurtz, and others having
shown that it forms an intermediate product between carbonic acid
and earbo-hydrates in the physiology of plant-life. It may be regarded
as the first product of the assimilation of carbonic acid by plants, and
by simple polymerization and elimination of water, is probably capable
of producing sugar, glucose, starch, and cellulose.

B. Tollens has described a convenient method for preparing this sub-
stance, which is based upon the oxidation of methylalcohol by air and
incandescent platinum. For details we refer to the original paper.
(Berichte d. chem. Ges., XV, p. 1629.)

Curcumin and other Substances from Turmeric.—C. Loring Jackson
and A. E. Menke give the following: Bengal turmeric root is ground and
treated in an extracter with ligroine to remove turmeric oil, and then
the curcumin, mixed with a large quantity of resin, is extracted with
ether and finally purified by crystallization from alcohol. The average
yield of curcumin was 0.3 of one per cent. The mean of five analyses
indicates the following composition:

Carbons ...23:0.2 =o eee 68. 30
Hydrogen 2. 21422 - Hescae<e ce eens « 5. 63

Curcumin crystallizes from alcohol in stout needles often in radiating
groups. It has an orange to yellow color with 2 blue reflex; its ether
solution fluoresces green; it melts at 1789 C. It is nearly insoluble in
water, slightly in benzol, readily soluble in hot alcohol, and more read-
CHEMISTRY. 523

ily soluble in glacial acetic acid; dissolved in strong sulphuric acid it. ,
blackens by charring; it is readily soluble in alkalies and alkaline car-
bonates. It forms two potassium salts K, Cj, Hj.O,and K Cy, Hy; O,,
as well as calcium, zinc and barium salts, the last named being insoluble.
By a study of the esters of curcumin the authors definitely establish C,,
H,, O, as the true formula. The results of incomplete oxidation are
most iuteresting; by treating an aqueous alkaline solution with potas-
sium permanganate, not in excess, astrong smell of vanilla was observed.
Further treatment effected the separation of an oil, gradually solidifying
in circular groups of radiating needles, and having a strong odor of
vanilla. By sublimation and purification of this product, white needles
of vanillin, melting at 78° C., were obtained. The yield was very small.
The authors also show that diethyleurcumin yields by oxidation ethyl-
vanillic acid. (Am. Chem. Journ., Iv, p. 77.)

Urea, its Synthesis and its Estimation.—Fenton has succeeded in trans-
forming urea into cyanamide; the dehydration was effected by means
of sodium in accordance with the reaction:

2 CON, H, + 2 Na = 2 CN, H, + 2 Na OH + H,

Prof.W.G. Mixter has succeeded in forming urea by the reaction of am-
monia on carbonic anhydride at a red heat. The urea forms slowly, 2
to 3 decigrams per hour, and collects in fine crystals.in the cooler parts
of the tube through which the gases are conducted. He regards the
formation of urea, as preceded by that of cyanic acid, thus: CO, + NH,
= HCNO + H,0. The cyanic acid probably unites with ammonia in
the cooler part of the tube to form urea. (Am. Chem. J., Iv, p. 35.)

J.R. Duggan described a modification of Knop’s process of estimating
urea by the amount of nitrogen evolved on the addition of an alkaline
hypobromite. His method consists in mixing the ureaand caustic soda
solutions first and then adding the bromine. He employs a caustic soda
solution made by dissolving 20 grms. of sodium hydrate in 100 e. c. of
water; and with each 20 ¢. ec. of this he uses 1c. c. of bromine. The re-
sults are satisfactory. The weight of nitrogen multiplied by 2.143 gives
the amount of urea. (Am. Chem. J., Iv, p. 47.)

Dr. Theodore G. Wormly has also investigated the above method of
determining urea and finds that only under the following conditions is
the whole of the nitrogen uniformly set free: 1st. The reagent (hypo-
bromite) should be freshly prepared; 2d. The urea solution should be
wholly added to the reagent; 3d. The amount of urea operated upon
should not exceed 1 part to about 1,200 parts of the diluted reagent;
4th. When comparatively large amounts of urea are present the sur-
rounding temperature should not be less than about 20° C. (68° Fah.).
(Chem. News, XLV, p. 27.)

Acrolein Urea.—Hugo Schiff has described under the name acryldiu-
reide, a body resulting from the union of two molecules of urea and one
of acroleine: Prof. A. R. Leeds has obtained a body having the same
524 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882.

constitution, CO (NH), C; Hy. It forms a white amorphous substance,
slightly soluble in alcohol, ether, chloroform, and carbon-disulphide.
Dr. Leeds points out some irrational conclusions in Schiff’s paper, and
accounts for them by presuming that Schiff operated upon imperfectly
purified material. (Berichte d. chem. Ges., XV, p. 1159.)

Synthesis of Uric Acid.—This interesting synthesis has been accom-
plished by Prof. Johann Horbaczewski. Pure, finely powdered glyco-
coll (made from hippuric acid) is mixed with ten parts of pure urea (made
from ammonium cyanate) and heated in a flask to 200° to 230° C., until
the material becomes brownish-yellow and viscous. After cooling the
mass is dissolved in diluted potassium hydroxide, saturated with ammo-
nium chloride, and precipitated witha mixture of ammoniacal silver
nitrate and magnesia mixture. The precipitate, which contains the uric
acid,is well washed with ammonia water and treated with potassium sul-
phide. The filtrate is then over-neutralized with hydrochloric acid and
boiled down to asmall bulk. The raw material thus obtained is purified
by solution in potassium hydroxide, and after repeating the operation,
the yellowish crystalline powder is washed with alchohol, dried with
carbon disulphide (to remove the sulphur), and finally with ether. This
purified material exhibits all the properties and reactions of uric acid.
The author is engaged in a further study of this synthetical reaction.
(Berichte d. chem. Ges. XV, p. 2678.) :

Synthesis of a new Amido-Acid analogous to Hippuric Acid.—By the
action of silver glycocollate on benzoylchloride, Th. Curtius has obtained
three acids, ordinary hippuric acid, hippurylglycocoll, and a third of un-
known constitution having the empirical formula C,H), N;0,. ‘The
hippurylglycocoll or hippurylamidoacetic acid crystallizes from hot
water in rhombic tables or needles which melt without decomposition
at 2069.5 C. The new acid crystallizes in microscopic needles which
become brown when heated to 230°, and are decomposed at 240° C.,
(Journal prak. Chem. N. F., XXVI, p. 145.)

Synthesis of Tyrosine.—Tyrosine forms a crystalline nitrogenous body
existing in the animal organism (spleen, liver, urine, &c.), produced by
the decomposition of albuminoid substances. It has long been studied
by chemists; Liebig obtained it by acting on decomposing caseine with
melted potash, Miiller found it in putrefying yeast, Hinterberger pre-
pared it by boiling oxhorn with sulphurie acid, and its constitution has
been discussed by several authors. In 1869 L. Barth pointed out that
tyrosine could be regarded as a parahydroxyphenylamidopropionic acid,
but his attempts to prepare it, as well as the proposed reactions of Beil-
stein and Kuhlberg, were unsuccessful.

Erlenmeyer has been engaged for several years in experimenting in
this direction, and with the assistance of Dr. A. Lipp has at length
accomplished this interesting synthesis. The process is as follows:
CHEMISTRY. 525

Phenylalanin (phenyl-a-amidopropionic acid) is converted into paranitro-
phenylalanin by the action of sulphuric and nitric acids, and this product
is transformed into paraamidophenylalanin by means of tin and hydro-
chloric acid. The chloride of this diamido compound is treated in
alcoholic solution with nitrous acid and the resulting body heated with
water. On evaporating and treating the residue with ether a sirupy
liquid is obtained which is probably parahydroxyphenyllactic acid.
This product is supersaturated with ammonia and concentrated by
evaporation, which gives a crystalline mass showing under the micro-
scope the crystalline characters of tyrosine. By recrystallizing from
dilute boiling alcohol the material is purified. Analysis shows it to
have the exact constitution of tyrosine:

OH
OsHn NO; or OH | OFCHLNH,.COOH
(Berichte d. chem. Ges., XV, pp. 1006 and 1544.)

Synthesis of Anthracene and Phenanthrene from Orthobrombenzyl-
bromide.—C. Loring Jackson and J. Fleming White, with a view to set-
tling the exact constitution of anthracene, have studied the action of
sodium on orthobrombenzyl-bromide, and obtained anthracene and phen-
anthrene. The former was identified by its melting point (212°),by the
formation ofanthraquinone (melting at 275°), and of alizarine; the latter
was identified by the melting point of its quinone, 198°, and by Lauben-
heimer’s test. Dibenzyl] also forms in this reaction, and an oil of uncer-
tain composition, possibly benzyltoluol.

By this synthesis it is proved that the two connecting carbon atoms
in the benzol rings are attached to each ring in the ortho-position, and
the last doubt about the constitution of anthracene isremoved. (Chem.
News, XLVI, p. 44.)

Synthesis of Organic Bodics by the Electrolysis of Water and Solu-
tions with Electrodes of Carbon.—A. Bartoli and G. Papasogli, in re-
searches on galvanic polarities, had observed that coke, charcoal, or
graphite, under the action of the current, is disaggregated; the elec-
trolyte is blackened more or less, according to its nature and that of the
carbon, and the gas evolved at the positive pole is below the normal
volume. The authors undertook the present investigation to ascertain
what becomes of the oxygen. They experimented with graphite, coke,
and wood charcoal, purified by chlorine at high temperatures. With
coke or charcoal us positive electrode and distilled water as electrolyte
and a battery of 1,200 Daniell cells, they remarked after two days a
brown color in the electrolyte and an acid reaction. The battery was
then reduced to 100 Bunsen cells, and ten days later to 20 Bunsen cells ;
these were in operation for 30 days. The water became black; the elec-
trode, which weighed about 500 grams, was totally disaggregated, and
a thick muddy deposit was formed. The electrolyte was found to contain
526 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FCR 1682.

mellitic acid and some of its derivatives, such as the hydro-mellitic,
pyro-mellitic, and hydro-pyro-mellitie acids.

The muddy deposit contained a black substance soluble in hot water
and alkalies, but insoluble in most mineral acids and in the majority of
organic solvents. The authors named this body mellogen, since, on
oxidation, it yields acids of the benzo-carbonic series. It has the com-
position C,,H,O, (Comptes Rendus, May 15, 1882.)

Acetoxims.—By the action of acetone on hydroxylamin, Alois Janny
has obtained the first member of a new series of bodies, for which series
he proposes the name of acetoxims. This name is applied to bodies
containing the group =CNOH united on two sides tocarbon. When
only one bond of the carbon group is united to carbon and the other
to hydrogen, derivatives of aldehyde are formed for which the name
aldoxims is suggested. | .

The simplest body of the acetoxims is dimethylacetoxim, having the
formula CH;—C(NHO)—OH;. This is obtained by mixing an aqueous
solution of hydroxylamine with acetone and extracting ether, whieh
leaves, on evaporation, brilliant white, hard, volatile, prismatic crys-
tals. It is soluble in water, alcohol, ether, &c., and melts at 59° to 60°
C., distilling without decomposition at 134°.8C. It is a neutral sub-
stance, and has a slight odor, resembling chloral.

The author has also prepared and studied ethyl-methylacetoxim,
methylpseudobutylacetoxim, and some analogous phenyl derivatives.
(Berichte d. chem. Ges., XV, pp. 13824 and 2778.)

Diphenylaminacroleine has been prepared by Prof. Albert R. Leeds*by
heating an alcoholic solution of diphenylamine with an excess of acro-
leine. After afew hours’ digestion a heavy red precipitate forms, soluble
in boiling alcohol, together with a sticky insoluble mass. The latter is
treuted with alcohol and water until it becomes pulverulent and capa-
ble of being pewdered in a mortar. This amorphous substance proves
to be diphenylaminacroleine (C,, Hi) N), C3Hy. It does not fuse nor
sublime, but is decomposed, on heating, into a carbonaceous mass. It
is insoluble in ether, slightly soluble in alcobol and acetic acid, and solu-
ble in chloroform, yielding a dark red liquid. It could not be obtained
in crystals. Bromine converts it into a bromo-compound, also amor-
phous, and not further examined.

Homoquinine, a new Alkaloid.—Howard and Hodgkin have obtained
a new alkaloid from cinchona bark, for which they propose the name
homoquinine. Its properties are similar to those of quinine, having the
same specific rotary power, and nearly the same composition, but it
crystallizes from ether more readily, and differs in the solubility of its
salts. One part of the sulphate of homoquinine requires more than 100
of water for solution. Alcohol of 90 per cent. dissolves 7.64 parts of
the alkaloid, a 5 per cent. solution of which shows a rotation of — 158°.
(J. Ohem. Soe., XI, p. 66.) ’
CULMISTRY. 527

Iodide of Bismuth and Potassium as a Reagent for Alxaloids.—F. Man-
gini prepares this reagent by mixing 3 parts of iodide of potassium with
16 of iodide of bismuth (liquid) and 3 parts of hydrochloric acid. Thus
prepared it is not decomposed by water and gives characteristic phe-
nomena with many alkaloids.

Strychnine, a light-yellow precipitate, limpid solution; after stand-
ing the precipitate turns dark yellow. -One part of strychnine in 500,000
of water can be detected.

Brucine, a golden-yellow silky precipitate becoming lighter in color.

Morphine, a reddish-yellow precipitate disappearing after some days,
when the liquid becomes canary-yellow.

Codeine, a yellowish-red precipitate turning brick-red on standing.

Narceine, a light-yellow precipitate remaining a long time suspended
in the liquid; it turns reddish-yellow on standing. —

Atropine, a silky precipitate, which settles as a reddish-yellow powder;
on standing the precipitate turns canary-yellow and slowly dissolves,
coloring the liquid golden yellow.

Aconitine, a flaky precipitate, which settles as a chrome-yellow pow-
der; no change on standing.

Nicotine, a red pulverulent precipitate, becoming reddish yellow.

Conicine, a red pulverulent precipitate of a more intense color than
the preceding, and becoming dirty white on standing.

Solanine, a golden-yellow precipitate forming slowly, and turning
darker.

Veratrine, a light-yellow precipitate, turning lighter.

Quinine sulphate, a brick-red precipitate, turning dirty white.

Cinchonine sulphate, like the preceding, but darker after standing.
(Gazzetta Chimica Italiana, 1882, p.155, and abstract in Bull. Soc. Chim.,
XXXVIII, p. 670.)

Application of Electrolysis to Dyeing.—Dyr. Frederic Goppelsroeder, of
Miihlhausen, has extended the application of electrolysis to the form.
ation of coloring matters and to the art of dyeing. He has employed
the galvanic current in producing and simultaneously fixing dyes on
various textile fabrics, in preventing the oxidation of colors during the
printing, and in preparing solutions of reduced dye-stuffs, the so-called
blue-vats. To obtain, for example, an aniline black on a fabric or on
paper, the stuff is soaked in an aqueous solution of a salt of aniline (the
chloride is preferred), and then placed on an unoxidizable metallic plate
connected with one pole of a galvanic battery or with a small dynamo
machine. A second metallic plate, bearing in relief the design and con-
nected with the other pole, is then placed upon the stuff. By pressing
gently and passing the current of electricity a black design is formed.
Medals and coins may be copied ina similar manner. By drawing lines
on the paper or fabric impregnated with the aniline salt, with a piece of
carbon forming one of the poles, or with a non-oxidizable metal, black
528 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882.

lines are obtained whenever the presence of the conducting carbon per-
mits the passage of electricity.

Hydrogen generated at the negative pole may be employed instead
of zine, ferrous sulphate, glucose, hydrosulphite, and the other common
agents, to reduce baths of indigo, of aniline black, &c. A feeble contin-
uous current gives the best results. The two electrodes must be sep-
arated completely. Dr. Goppelsroeder expresses the hope that his ex-
periments may eventually become of industrial importance. (Reprinted
from I? Electricien, and communicated by the author.)

Method and Apparatus for Testing Inflammable Oils——In accordance
with the instructions of the New York State Board of Health to its san-
itary committee, and in response to an order of said committce, Arthur
H. Elliott has made an exhaustive report on the methods and apparatus
for testing inflammable oils, with special reference to dangerous kero-
sene. The investigations were made with the ultimate intention of es-
tablishing a standard for testing petroleum in New York State. Mr.
Elliott examined thirteen kinds of testers, including three open testers,
and some electric testers, and experimented with four different samples
of oil on each apparatus. His tests show that it is very important to
know which apparatus has been used when an oil is said to have a given
flashing point. One of the oils showed a range of temperature from 95°
to 130° F. The general conclusions to which Mr. Elliott comes are briefly
as follows: Of all the 13 apparatuses not one can be called perfectly
satisfactory; open testers are entirely untrustworthy for determining
the safety of kerosene oil;. of the closed testers the Wisconsin State
tester, with a few alterations suggested by the author, gives the most
reliable results. The electric testers are troublesome to keep in order.
(Second Annual Report of the State Board of Health of New York, Albany,
1882, p. 449.)

‘“ Benzol” or * Benzene,” a Question in Nomenclature.—Attention is
being directed to the. necessity of greater uniformity in nomenclature,
especially as regards the important hydrocarbons CgH,¢ and C,H. Ger-
man, French, and most American chemists designate Cs Hg by the name
benzol (sometimes spelled with a superfluous final e), while English chem-
ists use the term benzene; in like mannervycontinental chemists name
©,oH, naphthalin, and Englishmen call it naphthalene.

A few years ago the London Chemical Society issued a six-page pam-
phlet* to its corps of abstractors giving rules of nomenclature and nota-
tion, and this has materially aided in securing uniformity. In preparing a
paper for the Berichte der deutschen chemischen Gesellschaft, on the “Laws
of Substitution in the Naphthalene Series,” Prof. Henry E. Armstrong,
of the London Institution, employed the customary English terms, and
desired the publication committee to refrain from changing them. This
led to correspondence which is published in the Berichte (vol. Xv, p.

* Reprinted in Chemical News (1883), vol. xLvu, p. 15.
CHEMISTRY. 529

°200). Professor Armstrong objects to the termination ol for hydrocar-
bons not of the paraffin series, and would restrict it to the aleohols—
earbinol, phenol, &c. He calls attention to the confusion which results
from the terms “ethylene,” “anthracene,” “phenanthrene,” on the one
hand, and “benzol,” “‘toluol,” and “naphthalin” on the other; and he
expresses the hope that the German Chemical Society may unite with
the London organization in attempting a uniform nomenclature. The
publication committee of the Berichte approved of an exchange of views
on the question.

American chemists are vitally interested, for in this country the oc-
currence of the petroleum product called benzine complicates the mat-
ter. While the English custom has much in its favor, the similarity in
pronunication of “benzine” and “benzene” leads many Americans to
follow the continental terminology. Consistency is eminently desirable.
It will be interesting to watch the result of the movement.

The Berichte ‘d. chem. Ges. for 1882 contains articles on the nomen-
clature of special groups. We refer to Herrmann on the nomenclature
of azo-compounds (p. 813), and to Wallach’s paper on the same subject.
Liebig’s Arnalen also has a paper, by Aug. Bernthsen, on the nomencla-
ture of derivatives of carbonic acid. (Liebig’s Annalen, CCXI, p. 85.)

NOTES.

Black phosphorus is formed, according to Maumené, when phosphorus
is distilled in hydrogen (made from zine and sulphuric acid), and not
formed when the distillation is conducted in carbonic anhydride. The
black color soon disappears.

Lecture experiment.—H. Schwarz finds that zine dust and sulphur,
when intimately mixed, combine with very great energy, and the experi-
ment is more brilliant and interesting than the usual one with iron fil-
ings (or copper turnings) and sulphur. The best proportions are two
parts by weight of zine and one of sulphur. The mixture inflames also
when struck heavily by a hammer, and when ignited in a confined space
(gun-barrel) explodes with about one-fourth the energy of gunpowder.

The rare metal vanadium occurs in large + quantity, according to Witz
and Osmond, in the residues of the iron furnaces of Creusot, and they
describe a process for extracting it on a large scale with a view to its
industrial applications.

Solid paraffine has been discovered by Silvestri in basalt. It occurs
in cavities about a centimeter in diameter, and is nearly identical with
the paraffine occurring in petroleum.

Bernthsen has discussed the unsatisfactory nomenclature of the iso-
meric sulpho-derivatives of carbonic acid, and proposes to call the radi-
cal =C=S thio-carbonyl, and to name the acids thio-carbonyl acids. In
like manner we may have for =C=NH imido carbony] and similar de-
rivatives.

Phosphate of chromium, prepared by the action of phosphoric acid and

H. Mis. 26 34

530 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882.

sodium hyposulphite on chromates of the alkalies, forms a fine green pig-
ment, which is proposed by Ad. Carnot as a substitute for the injurious
arsenical and cupriferous colors.

Paul Sabatier has published a note claiming priority over A. Colson
in the discovery of the sulphides of silicium, SiS, and SiSO.

Constantine Fahlberg has patented a process for preparing sulphate
of aluminium free of iron for the mineral bauxite. The essential point
in the method is the use of lead peroxide for the removal of the iron;
the lead compound being afterwards recovered in a very simple manner.

Hautefeuille and Chappuis have studied the formation of pernitric
oxide, and assign to it the formula N,Ox.

Cailletet has obtained a crystalline hydrate of phosphoretted hydro-
gen by strongly compressing the gas in the presence of water and then
suddenly decreasing the pressure. Hydrates of ammonia and of sul-
phureted hydrogen have also been obtained by this method.

Wroblewski, by a somewhat similar method, has obtained a solid crys-
talline hydrate of carbonic anhydride, CO, 8H,0.

In a letter to Nature, G. F. Rodwell revives the controversy concern-
ing the relative claims of Lavoisier and of Priestley to the discovery of
oxygen. Rodwell endeavors to give the greater honor to Lavoisier.

Hydroxylamine is found by G. Bertoni and C. Raimondi to be an act-
ive poison when injected into the blood. Less than 0.2 gram killed a
medium-sized dog. It also exerts a poisonous effect when introduced
into the stomach or under the skin. The blood assumes a chocolate
color and yields on dialysis nitrous acid, an oxidation product of hydro-
xylamine.

Two new antiseptics, calcium- and sodium-glycero-borates, have been
announced by G. Le Bon, and experiments prove their utility. They
are odorless and without injurious action on the most delicate tissues.

The discovery of hydrazin, NH», claimed by Maumené, has been denied
by several chemists who repeated the process (action of potassium per-
manganate on ammonium oxalate) and obtained negative results.

Bromo-sulphide of carbon has been discovered by Carl Hell and Fr.
Urech. It is obtained by the direct action of bromine on carbon di-
sulphide, and forms small brilliant prismatic crystals having the com-
position C,8,Brg.

Rose’s fusible alloy has been prepared by W. Spring by subjecting the
constituents (lead, bismuth, and tin) in their proper proportion, to enor-
mous pressure. Wood’s alloy, melting at 65° C. can be obtained in a
similar manner. The pressure employed was 7,500 atmospheres.

Metallic uranium, according to Zimmermann, forms a silver-white,
somewhat malleable metal, very hard, but scratched by steel. It has
a specific gravity of 18.7. It burns with brilliant light and scintil-
lations, forming a bulky oxide. it is slowly attacked by warm nitric
acid and by sulphuric acid, and readily dissolves in hydrochloric.

The Royal Society awarded the Davy medal (in duplicate) to D. Men-
CHEMISTRY. 531

delejeff and to Lothar Meyer for their discovery of the periodic relations
of the atomic weights. This has drawn out a protest from John A. R.
Newlands, of London, who claims priority in the publication of the peri-
odic law, and who produces evidences of his assertion. (Chem. News,
46, 278.)

The French Academy of Sciences offer the new Volta prize of 50,000
francs to the author of the discovery which shall enable electricity to
be applied economically in one of the following directions: as a source
of heat, of light, of chemical action, of mechanical power; as a means
of the transmission of intelligence, or of the treatment of disease.
Competition is open until June 30, 1887, to scientific men of all nations,
and the award will be decided in December, 1887.

The German Chemical Society is in a very flourishing condition. At
the close of 1882 it numbered 2,527 members, of whom 16 are honorary
and 263 associate members. The Berichte, published annually by the
society, forms one of the most important of chemical journals; the two
volumes issued in 1881 comprise over 3,000 pages, and the volumes for
1882 attain about the same size. The total income of the society for
1882 amounted to 56,247 marks, and the expenses for the same period
were 44,697 marks.

Necrology.—During the year 1882 the deaths of many eminent chem-
ists were recorded. Among them may be mentioned: Dr. John W.
Draper, of New York; Dr. Henry Draper, of New York; Prof. Will-
iam B. Rogers, of Boston; Dr. John Stenhouse, of Manchester; Prof.
Rudolph Bottger, of Frankfort; Dr. Ludwig Feder, of Munich; Prof.
A. Popoff, of Warsaw; Prof. Friedrich Wohler, of Géttingen.
, iy Pry : :
TT ee eee, cA Lek a
VA Rh ay y} pated Ped | haat Petr Pe
; te He eke Oro hes

Riis ite “

: ETD in "I

4
wert

Sa: bigs

2.8 ms miley
Stes) ee
a \ °

MINERALOGY.

By EDWARD S. DANA,

‘ Professor in Yale College, New Haven, Conn.

The following pages contain a summary of the progress of Mineralogy
during the years of 1881 and 1882. The attempt has been made to give
as complete a statement as possible, in the allotted space, of the recent
advances made in the different departments of the science. Especial
attention is devoted to the mineralogical discoveries in America. In
presenting the subject, the recent contributions to general mineralogi-
cal bibliography are first mentioned; then follows a general statement
of work done in crystallography and physical mineralogy; following
this is given an account of recent investigations on the chemical side
of the subject; next comes a somewhat particular statement of dis-
coveries of new localities of minerals; and finally descriptions are
given of the new species added to the science.

\
1. GENERAL WORKS ON MINERALOGY.

The most important of the recent additions to the works on general
mineralogy is the eleventh edition of the Elemente der Mineralogie of
Naumann, edited by Zirkel. Since the publication of the first edition
in 1846, Naumann’s Mineralogy has been the standard work in Ger-
many; and the later editions have more thoroughly established. its
position. Since the death of the author in 1873, the work has been
continued by Zirkel, and two editions have been published under his
editorship; the tenth in 1877, and the eleventh in 1881. The funda-
mental changes introduced by him in the classification of species and
other respects have brought the work more into harmony with modern
views. Of the large number of other mineralogical books recently pub-
lished in the German tongue, the majority are of an elementary char-
acter. The Lehrbuch der Mineralogie, by Tschermak, however, deserves
especial mention, because of the clear and satisfactory manner in which
the physical portion of the subject is treated; the descriptive part is,
however, rather meager and inadequate. It is stated that an English
translation is soon to appear; and if so, it will doubtless meet with a
good reception.

An addition to the list of English mineralogical text-books has been

made by Banerman in his Text Book of Systematic Mineralogy. The
533
534 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882.

first volume, the only one thus far published, is devoted to the theoret-
ical portion of the subject, leaving the description of species for another
volume. The work has many excellent features, and it is worthy of note
that it is the first important contribution to mineralogical treatises pub-
lished in England since the Mineralogy of Greg and Lettsom in 1858.
The second edition of Groth’s Tabellarische Uebersicht der Mineralien,
&c., published in 1882, is a work of more importance than might appear
at a first glance. It professes to be only a system of tables giving a
statement of the crystalline system and chemical composition of each
species, designed especially for the use of the student in the lecture-
room; but in the discussion of the chemical formulas of the species,
many new points are brought out, and in their classification, the rela-
tion of the species, especially on the chemical side, has been developed
with an unusual clearness. The book is consequently a real contribu-
tion to the development of the science.

A third appendix to the fifth edition of Dana’s System of Mineralogy
has been recently published (April, 1882), covering the period from 1875
to 1882. Itis comprehensive in its scope, and gives full descriptions of
the species announced as new, and also references to all mineralogical
memoirs and articles, large and small, which have appeared during the
seven years mentioned, with a brief mention of the contents of the more
important. Someidea may be formed of the amount of mineralogical work
done in recent times from the fact that this appendix covers 134 large
octavo pages insmall type; and also of the zeal for naming ‘new species”
from the fact that 300 new names are here included.

Among mineralogical works of amore local characteris tobe mentioned
first, the continuation of the Materialien zur Mineralogie Russlands by
Kokscharof, of which great work the eighth volume is now completed.
The monographs of the crystalline form of the species contained in these
volumes are models of accurate, careful work. The third edition of the
Mineralogia, by Domeyko, is also an important work. It was published
in 1879, and a first appendix to it appeared in 1881. This work gives a
complete account of the present state of the mineralogy of Chili and the
neighboring countries of South America. Although far removed from
the great centers of science, Professor Domeyko has carried on his work
for many years with great zeal, and his labors have done much to make
known the remarkable mineral riches of the countries in which he is
interested. Another important work is that on the minerals of New
South Wales, by A. Liversidge, which covers 140 pages.

Among works of a more special character is to be mentioned the
Sammlung von Mikrophotographieen, &c., by Cohen, which gives on a
series of quarto plates excellent photographs of the various points of
interest involved in the microscopical study of minerals and rocks; some
of these are the inclusions in crystallized minerals, the phenomena of
abnormal double refraction, figures produced by etching, the kinds of
cleavage and structure, and soon. The execution of these plates leaves
ee

MINERALOGY. 535

nothing to be desired, and they will be of great assistance to those who
are either studying or teaching this branch of mineralogy. Thus far
four numbers of this work have appeared.

This seems to be the proper place to mention the Sketch of the Prog-
ress of American Mineralogy by Prof. G.J. Brush, delivered as the presi-
dential address before the Montreal meeting of the American Associa-
tion for the Advancement of Science, in August, 1882. This address
gives an interesting and valuable account of the development of the
science of mineralogy in America, commencing from its earliest begin-
ning with the formation of the ‘‘American Mineralogical Society,” in
1798, The great ignorance of the science which characterized the early
years of this century is shown, and then the successive steps are pointed
out which have gradually led up to the advanced position of mineralogy
in this country at the present time. As typical of the work done and
the workers engaged in it, sketches are given of four leading mineral-
ogists: Dr. Archibald Bruce, who founded the American Mineralogical
Journal; Col. George Gibbs, whose collections made abroad afforded a
great stimulus to the development of the science at home; Prof. Parker
Cleaveland, author of the most valuable work for the time, an Elemen-
tary Treatise on Mineralogy and Geology; and Prof. Benjamin Silliman,
of Yale College, who established the American Journal of Science.

2. CRYSTALLOGRAPHY AND PHYSICAL MINERALOGY.

Among the recent general treatises devoted to crystallography and
physical mineralogy, those of Tschermak and Bauerman have already been
alluded to. In addition fo these the Geometrische Krystallographie by Lie-
bisch is to be mentioned. It devotes nearly 500 octavo pages to the devel-
opment of the subject, and accomplishes this with system and thorough-
ness. Rammelsberg has published the first volume (615 pp.) of a new
edition of his Handbuch der krystallographisch-physikalischen Chemie, &
work which is a valuable auxiliary to the study of minerals, although
discussing the crystalline form of artificial compounds. The Stereogra-
phische Projection of Reusch will be a help to those studying the system
of mineralogy based upon it.

A noteworthy advance in the methods of research in physical miner-
alogy has been made through the introduction of a solution of mer-
curic iodide in potassium iodide as a means of determining the specific
gravity of minerals, and also of separating different minerals when mixed
together in the form of small fragments. The solution, called the Son-
stadt solution, because proposed by E. Sonstadt in 1873, has a high
specific gravity, attaining at a maximum about 3.2, so that a fragment
of fluorite floats in it. This specific gravity can be varied almost in-
definitely by the gradual addition of water, so that it may be used to
determine the specific gravity of any mineral not heavier than the limit
mentioned; all that is necessary being to obtain the weight of a known
volume of the liquid in which the mineral in question just floats. The
536 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882.

solution is even more useful for the separation of two or more minerals
when mixed together in the form of small fragments, the solution being
graded by successive dijution so that in succession one constituent after
another of the mixture sinks and is removed while the others float. This
method of procedure is much used in connection with the study of the
minerals in rocks, and for the development of it science is especially
indebted to Thoulet and Goldschmidt. Another solution of similar
properties has been proposed by D. Klein; this is best made, as he states,
from the boro-tungstate of cadmium, and may be obtained with a specifie
gravity up to 3.6. Breon has obtained remarkable results from a liquid
obtained by fusing lead chloride and zine chloride together at about
400° C. <A liquid with a specific gravity above 7.5 has been obtained,
and although the practical use of such a liquid is not very convenient,
Breon has been able with it to separate as many as twelve constituent
minerals from a sample of sand; he has also used it for minerals as
heavy as wolfram.

In optical mineralogy the subject which has attracted most attention
during the period under consideration, as indeed for the few years pre-
ceding it, is the cause of the so-called ‘optical anomalies” of crystals.
Since the time of Brewster it has been well known that many species
exhibit in polarized light optical phenomena not in accordance with their
apparent geometrical form; for example, that alum, fluorite, the diamond,
and other species show double refraction, while their crystalline form is
apparently isometric. Later investigations have largely increased the
list of crystallized minerals exhibiting these ‘‘ optical anomalies,” as they
have been called, and various explanations have been offered for them.
At present there may be said to be two opposed theories, both having
strong supporters, and the weight of evidence is hardly sufficient to
make it possible to decide finally between them.

In the view of Mallard, first advanced in 1876, the apparent symmetry
exhibited by the crystals of the species under discussion, which show opti-
cal anomalies, is only pseudo-symmetry ; the optical properties observed
belong inherently to the molecular structure of the individual parts of the
crystal; and the external crystalline form observed is really due to the
grouping; or twinning, of several simple crystals, each of a lower grade of
symmetry than that which the complex whole so formed simulates. For
example, according to this view, an apparent isometric cube may in fact be
made up of six four-sided pyramids, each optically uniaxial, and united so
that their bases form the sides of the cube and their vertices are grouped
atthe center. Similarly, an apparent regular octahedron may be made
up of eight uniaxial triangular pyramids; or, still more generally, a hex-
octahedron of garnet may be composed of forty-eight triangular pyra-
mids, each optically biaxial, and four together forming a pseudo-rhombic —
pyramid. The theory of Mallard-has been warmly supported by Ber-
trand; and the labors of the French mineralogists in general, includ-
ing Des Cloizeaux, have increased largely the list of so-called pseudo-
MINERALOGY. 53T

isometric, pseudo-tetragonal, pseudo-hexagonal, &c., species. The most
common typical species under the systems of high grade of symmetry
have thus been thrown over into systems of lower symmetry; the list .
includes such species as garnet, fluorite, analcite, apophyllite, rutile,
zircon, beryl, apatite, and so on.

Opposed to the theory of Mallard is that advanced by Marbach and
Reusch, and developed by Klocke, Klein, Ben Saude, and other min-
eralogists, which explains the “optical anomalies” by reference to the
state of molecular tension existing within the crystal and produced
during its growth. According to this view, the apparent geometrical
form of the crystal represents its true symmetry, and the optical proper-
ties observed which are at variance with it do not belong inherently
to the substance of the crystal, but have been produced by secondary
eauses. Klocke has applied this theory to alum, Klein to boracite and
garnet, and Ben Saude to analcite and perofskite, but the full explana-
tion would require an amount of detailed description inconsistent with
the space allotted for this summary.

As between the two theories, it may be said that while pseudo-
symmetry has a real existence—twins of orthorhombic species, arago-
nite, for example, often imitating hexagonal forms—still the weight of
argument seems to be in favor of referring the phenomena observed to
secondary causes, so that it is not yet necessary to call garnet a triclinic
species. On the other hand, although the extreme view of Mallard
may not be accepted, it is beyond question true that the result of the
accurate crystallographic and optical investigations of the past few
years has been to show that many crystals really belong to systems of a
lower grade of symmetry than that to which they have been previously
referred. It is impossible at present to say how far this may be carried.
‘The number of minerals to whose crystalline form and optical properties
especial attention has been directed in the past two years is so large
that they cannot be even enumerated here.

One explanation for the great amount of study that has been devoted
to the questions above mentioned, and for the interest which they have
excited, is to be found in the fact that recent years have brought great
improvements in the instruments for the investigation of both the form
and optical properties of crystals. The microscope of Rosenbusch, since
1876 much used in the study of rock-sections, has been improved so as
to be suitable for the optical study of minute crystals. A microscope
especially adapted for this purpose has been devised by Bertrand in
Paris, and in his hands, as also those of Des Cloizeaux, it has given ac-
curate results in very many cases where the earlier instruments would
have yielded nothing. Improvements have also been made in the
polariscope and other similar instruments. New methods have been
introduced for the determination of the indices of refraction of crystal-
lized minerals; the most recent is that employed by Bauer, in which
he obtains the desired values by calculation from the measured distances
538 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882.

between the black rings of the axial interference figures seen in mono-
chromatic converging polarized light; he has applied this method to
. muscovite and more recently to the uniaxial mineral brucite.

3. CHEMICAL MINERALOGY.

In the direction of chemical mineralogy the most important advances
that have been made are in the artificial formation of minerals. This
is a subject to which the French mineralogists and chemists have es-
pecially devoted themselves, and the results they have attained are
most remarkable. Some of the more recent achievements in this line
are the making of analcite, leucite, gaylussite, opal, wurtzite, scorodite,
&e. It would not be appropriate to discuss here the methods employed
in these or similar cases, but attention may properly be called to a work
on the subject by Fouqué and Lévy entitled Synthése des Minéraux et
des Roches. These authors have already themselves performed some of
the most important of the synthetic experiments, and they have now
published a volume of 420 pages octavo, in which all previous results
are brought together. The work is admirably constructed, giving a
summary of the methods employed, a discussion of the principles in-
volved, as well as of the value of the synthetic method, and further, a
statement of the artificial production of the individual species, with full
references to previous experimenters and observers. This valuable work
cannot but act as a stimulus to further the development of a most im-
portant branch of mineralogy, which has a wide bearing not only upon
this science itself, but beyond, upon geology and chemistry.

The analytical method has also, as of old, been followed most indus-
triously in the past two years, and the result has been to settle the
composition of some minerals in cases where it has long been doubtful,
and to throw light on many obscure points. Among the many cases
coming under this head may be mentioned the work of Penfield on
amblygonite, in which he shows that the many varieties of the species
all conform to the same general formula, although differing in the amount
of fluorine and water they contain, the latter increasing as the former
diminishes. He explains this variation by assuming that hydroxyl
comes in to replace the fluorine to a greater or less extent. The same
chemist has also settled the doubtful composition of monazite. Early
analyses showed the presence of a considerable amount of thorium, while
some later ones have afforded no thorium at all. Penfield has proved
that the mineral is a simple phosphate of the metals of the cerium
group, the thorium being due to admixed thorite. He analyzed sam-
ples of monazite from different American localities, and showed that
while all afforded thorium in widely different amounts, the silica pres-
ent also in each case was sufficient to unite with the thorium; more-
over, thin sections showed the existence of a foreign mineral which
gelatinized with acids. The doubtful relations of the minerals of the
eryolite group have been made clear by the chemical work of Brandl
MINERALOGY. 539

and the erystallographical work of Groth. The species thomsenolite
and pachnolite, which have often been confounded, are shown to be
distinct both in form and in composition. Cathrein has examined the
minerals called leucoxene and titanomorphite, both of which are altera-
tion minerals of titanic iron or of rutile, and has shown that they are
really identical with the common mineral titanite. It will be remem-
bered that Lasaulx attempted to set up titanomorphite as an independent
species on the ground that it was simply a new calcium titanate, but
the analysis of Bettendorif, on which the conclusion was based, is shown
to have been inaccurate.

The gaseous inclusions in smoky quartz, especially that of Branch-
ville, have been studied microscopically by the late Dr. Hawes, and
chemically by Prof. A. W. Wright. W. E. Hidden has also described
large fluid cavities in the quartz of North Carolina. The Branchville
quartz is shown to be exceptionally rich in cavities with liquid carbon
dioxide, so much so that a thin fragment broken off by a tap of a hammer
separates with explosive force, and a fragment held in the flame of a
Bunsen burner flies to pieces with great violence. The analysis of these
gases by Wright has proved the presence, besides the carbon dioxide,
of nitrogen, sulphureted hydrogen, ammonia, sulphur dioxide, and fluo-
rine.

Bamberger has shown that the picranalcite of Bechi, supposed to be
a distinct mineral, is ordinary analcite, containing only a trace of mag-
nesia. H. Sjégren has proved the presence of both chondrodite (mono-
clinic) and humite (orthorhombic) in Sweden, and he has attempted
to establish thechemical composition of these two closely related spe-
cies, aS also of the third species of the group, called clinohumite. It
will be remembered that these are equivalents of Scacchi’s three types
of Vesuvian humite: type l= humite, type Il=chondrodite, and type
III = clinohumite.

The chemical composition of the zine silicate, calamine, has been
established by Fock. He shows that it remains unchanged at 340°
C., and loses its water only at a red heat; the water consequently
is not to be regarded as water of crystallization, but the true formula is
H, Zn, Si O;, it being thus a basic silicate with an oxygen ratio of 3: 2 like
andalusite. A similar change had already been made earlier in the
method of viewing the composition of the copper silicate dioptase.

Dr. Genth has published some new observations bearing upon the
subject of the alteration of corundum, a subject to which he devoted an
extended and important memoir in 1873. Some of the cases noted by
him are: (1) Corundum altered tospinel. At the Carter mine, Madison
County, North Carolina, corundum is found in white and pink crystals
and in irregular grayish-white or white cleavage masses enveloping a
variety of a delicate pink color; this corundum is often more or less
completely changed to a massive greenish black spinel of a fine granular
structure, but rarely showing octahedral crystals in the compact mass.
540 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882.

The corundum of Shimersville, Pa., is also in part altered to spinel. (2)
Corundum altered to zoisite. A new locality is mentioned in Towns
County, Georgia. (3) Altered to feldspar and mica (damourite). At Pres-
ley mine, Haywood County, North Carolina, feldspar and mica have
been observed as alteration products of corundum ; the larger crystals
of the latter mineral are of a grayish-blue color and contain patches of
a white, cleavable feldspar often surrounded by mica. In other cases a
small nucleus of the original mineral is surrounded by an aureole of deli-
cate subfibrous mica. Onecrystal of muscovite contained in the center
remnants of a smooth bluish-gray cleavable corundum; another mass
resembled a coarse granite, consisting of albite, muscovite, and scattered
remnants of grayish-blue corundum. At Belts’ Bridge, Iredell County,
North Carolina, large crystals of corundum one foot in diameter occur
which are more or less completely altered to mica, though they also
contain radiating masses of black tourmaline. From the mica-schists
near Bradford, Coosa County, Alabama, fine hexagonal crystals have
been obtained, consisting of a central part of corundum of a brown or
bronze color, inclosing grains of menaccanite, and surrounding this is
a perfect ring of subfibrous greenish-white mica; other crystals are al-
most entirely altered, often being flattened out and so forming nodules
in the mica-schist; the mica is sometimes scaly, sometimes very fine-
grained and compact. Flattened nodules of mica, inclosing a nucleus of
corundum, also occur at the Haskell mine, Macon County, North Caro-
lina. Various new localities are also given of (4) corundum altered to
margarite. From Shoup’s Ford, Burke County, North Carolina, speci-
mens showing (5) the alteration to fibrolite have been obtained; they
consist of brown corundum with a thin shell of fine fibrous radiating
white fibrolite. Corundum altered (6) to cyanite has been noted from
Statesville, Iredell County, North Carolina; the specimen consisted of
a nucleus of pink corundum with pale blue cyanite crystallized about it
and presumably having resulted from its alteration ; in another speci-
men from Wilkes County, North Carolina, the cyanite was still further
altered to mica.

Notes of work by students in the laboratory of the University of
Virginia, recently published as a continuation of a series commenced
several years since, contain some points of interest. An analysis is

! given of the allanite from Bedford County, Virginia, by Page, the re-
sults of which are remarkable as showing the presence of over 50 per
cent. of the oxides of the cerium metals ; analyses are also given of the
helvite recently discovered near Amelia Court-House, Virginia (see
beyond), of mimetite from Nevada, a sulph-antimonite of copper and zine,
near bournonite, from Park County, Colorado; of fergusonite, samarskite,
orthite from North Carolina; of metallic iron found in small flattened
scales in the alluvial washings of Brush Creek, Montgomery County,
Virginia, of native palladium gold, containing 8.2 per cent. palladium,
from Taguaril, near Subara, Minas Geraes, Brazil.
MINERALOGY. 541

An important memoir, containing the result of numerous chemical
analyses on the sodalite-syenite and the associated minerals ofthe Tunugd-
liarfik and Kangerdluarsuk fiords of Southern Greenland, has been pub-
lished by J. Lorenzen, of Copenhagen. The chief constituents of the
rock area greenish-white feldspar, arfvedsonite (and egirite) and sodalite;
there also occur eudialyte, nephelite, lepidolite, enigmatite, and a new
mineral called steenstrupine (see beyond) ; also at one spot ilvaite with
calcite; and finally some zeolites, in particular analcite and natrolite.
Analyses are given of most of the minerals mentioned. It is especially
interesting to note that the association of minerals is nearly identical
with that observed in the syenite of Langesunds fiord of Southern Nor-
way.

4, DISCOVERY OF NEW MINERAL LOCALITIES.

Not the least important advance in general mineralogy is to be found
in the discovery of new mineral localites. Great progress has been
made in this direction, particularly in the western part of the United
States, where the recent development of gold and silver-mines has
brought to light much that is of very great interest. Of general state-
ments of American mineral regions are to be mentioned the following
works: Zhe minerals and mineral tccalities of North Carolina, by F. A.
Genth and W. C. Kerr, wick siotes by W. E. Hidden; The second report
of the State mineralogist of California, by H. G. Hanks; Notes on the
mineralogy of Missouri, by Alexander V. Leonhard ; Biennial report of the
State geologist of the State of Colorado, by J. Alden Smith. Similar mem-
oirs in regard to foreign regions are that by Schmidt on the zine de-
posits at Wiesloch in Baden, and by Coben on the minerals of the region
about Heidelberg.

In the southwestern Territories of New Mexico and Arizona important
mineralogical discoveries have been made. For example, in Arizona,
Silliman has called attention to the occurrence of the hitherto very
rare mineral vanadinite in beautiful crystals, often of a ruby-red color,
in Yuma County, at the Hamburg, Princess, and Red Cloud mines; also
of fine wulfenite at the last-mentioned mine; further of crocoite and
other chromium minerals, with yellow vanadinite, at several minesin the
Vulture district; of jarosite from the Vulture mine; of thenardite, in
large deposits from the Rio Verde, in Maricopa County. W. P. Blake
has described beautiful vanadinite with mimetite, wulfenite, &c., from
the Castle Dome mines, Yuma County. Various interesting copper
minerals have been obtained from the Copper Queen mine, Pinal County ;
crystallized silver, argentite, &c., from the Silver King mine; beautiful
dioptase, almost equal to that from the Kirghese steppes, from near
Clifton. The ancient turquoise locality at Mount Chalchuitl, New Mex-
ico, has been recently investigated and good specimens obtained. In
Oregon considerable deposits of a hydrous nickel silicate allied to
542 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882.

garnierite have been discovered in Douglas County. The rare min-
eral wurtzite has been identified at the original Butte mine, Montana.

Onofrite has been discovered at Marysvale, Southern Utah, by New-
berry, and described by Brush. Native lead with minium has been
described by W. P. Blake as occurring in the midst of masses of galena,
at the Jay Gould mine, Alturas County, Idaho; the metallic lead is in
small rounded masses or grains from one-eighth to one-quarter of an
inch in diameter, also in irregular reniform bunches weighing an ounce
or more; the red oxide forms a coating in the native metal. The same
author mentions the occurrence of orpiment and realgar in a thin bed
in the horizontal sedimentary formations underlying lava in the Coyote
district, Iron County, Utah.

The minerals of Colorado have been studied by Cross and Hillebrand,
by Konig, by M. W. Iles, and others. The first-mentioned authors have
given a complete description with analyses of the zeolites of Table Moun-
tain, near Golden; they have also described the occurrence of phenacite,
of topaz, of zircon, and of several minerals of the cryolite group in the
Pike’s Peak region. Alaskaite, beegerite, ilesite, are new minerals
from Colorado, descriptions of which are given on a subsequent page.
Konig has described jarosite, from Chaffee County.

In the Southern States W. E. Hidden has continued his investiga-
tions near Stony Point, Alexander County. North Carolina, and has
brought to light many most interesting and valuable minerals. The
beautiful emerald-green variety of spodumene, called hiddenite, has been
found in fine prismatic crystals, and of a size and clearness affording
gems which are highly valued. The same locality has afforded splendid
emeralds in crystals up to 10 inches in length; they are not often clear
enough for use in jewelry, but in size and beauty of color they are unique
among mineralogical specimens. Splendent rutiles, highly modified and
brilliantly polished quartz crystals accompany the emeralds, also fine
monazite, allanite, and other species. Monazite has been obtained from
the gold washings at Brindletown and elsewhere, also in situ from several
localities in the same State. Another interesting locality is that near
Amelia Court-House, Amelia County, Virginia. This has afforded large
crystals of microlite, up to several pounds in weight. It will be remem-
bered that the original crystals of the mineral from Massachusetts were
extremely minute, and to them the name given was appropriate, as it is
not to those from Virginia. There also occur fine columbite, monazite
in large masses, orthite, the rare mineral helvite, and other more com-
mon species.

In Maine topaz has been found in fine crystals, sometimes very large,
though sparingly, at Stoneham, as first pointed out by G. F. Kunz, with
triplite and columbite. Norway has yielded triphylite (lithiophilite) and
chrysoberyl. From Peru, triphylite, columbite, and spodumene have
been obtained. It is also worthy of mention that the famous tourmaline
MINERALOGY. 543

locality, at Paris, has been reopened and has offered some more good
specimens.

The many minerals occurring in the diabase dike at Deerfield, Mass.,
have been exhaustively studied and described by Emerson.

Middletown, Conn., has afforded at Pelton’s quarry a few specimens
of monazite and samarskite.

De Kalb, N. Y., has yielded interesting crystals of white tourmaline.

In Canada the locality at Eganville, Renfrew County, Ontario, has
continued to yield fine specimens; among these are gigantic crystals of
apatite and titanite, also large twin crystals of zircon, which are unique
for the species. From Hull, Quebec, fine colorless garnets have been
obtained. Samarskite has been found in the township of Brassard,
Berthier County, Quebec. Lazulite has been analyzed by Hoffmann
from Churchill River, Keewatin district.

In regard to new mineral discoveries outside of the United States
and Canada, it is unnecessary to speak in detail. Attention may be
called to the discovery of vanadates, vatradinite, descloizite, &c., in the
Argentine Republic; to the description by Silliman of a mountain of
martite, the Cerro de Mercado of Mexico. The ancient mines recently
reopened at Laurium, Greece, have afforded, besides the commoner zinc
species, also adamite, cabrerite, and several new species mentioned
later. s

The rare mineral danburite, long known only in imperfect imbedded
crystals from Danbury, Conn., afterward (1880) found in large and fine
crystals, often transparent, at Russell, N. Y., has now been discovered
on the Skopi, Switzerland. The discovery of this borosilicate is worthy
of note; the crystals are small, quite clear, and have the same remark-
able resemblance to topaz characteristic of the crystals from Russell;
the composition is identical with that of the American mineral. The
hydrous carbonate of alumina, called dawsonite by Harrington, from
specimens found at Montreal, has been identified in Tuscany. A re-
markable variety of tourmaline containing chromium has been described
from the Urals. Euclase and phenacite have been obtained from the
Alps. Beautiful blue opals are now brought from Queensland; their
occurrence has been described by Robertson in the Proceedings of the
Philosophical Society of Glasgow for 1881-82.

5. NEW MINERALS.

The following pages contain brief descriptions of the minerals an-
nounced as new, during the past two years. Only a small portion of
these have characters sufficiently distinct to justify their being accepted
as true new species. The list is arranged in alphabetical order, and the
names of the most clearly defined species are printed in small capitals,
the others italics.

ALASKAITE.—A massive mineral with metallic luster and whitish
lead-gray color. It contains sulphur, bismuth, lead, silver, and copper ;
544 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 18382.

and the chemical formula is analogous to that of miargyrite with bis-
muth in the place of antimony. It is described by Konig as ocecur-
ring intimately mixed with barite, chalcopyrite and tetrahedrite at the
Alaska mine, Poughkeepsie Gulch, Colorado. Silberwismuthglanz is a
name given by Rammelsberg to a closely related mineral from Moro-
cocha, Peru; it contains only sulphur, bismuth, and silver.

ANNERODITE.—A mineral occurring in prismatie crystals closely re-
sembling columbite in habit and in angles. It has a black color and
submetallic luster. In composition it is very near samarskite, and the
describer, Brogger, regards it as bearing the same relation to columbite
which samarskite bears to tantalite, found in a pegmatite vein at Anne-
rod, near Moss, Norway.

Arctolite.—A mineral of doubtful character, only interesting because
of its source, Hvitholm near Spitzbergen. The name indicates that it
comes from the Arctic. It has the prismatie angle of the amphibole,
while in composition it appears to be near prehnite. The describer is
Professor Blomstrand of Lund; Sweden.

Balvraidite—A name given by Heddle to a supposed homogeneous
substance, having a saccharoidal structure and pale purplish-brown
color, which was found in the granular limestone of Balvraid, Inverness-
shire, Scotland. An analysis makes it a hydrous silicate containing alu-
mina, iron sesquioxide, lime, magnesia, and alkalies. It has not yet been
shown to be a distinct mineral.

BEEGERITE.—Occurs in elongated isometric crystals, also massive,
with a brilliant metallic luster and gray color. In composition it is a
sulpho-bismuthite of lead. It is described by K6nig as occurring at
the Baltic Lode, near Grant P. O., Park County, Colorado, and is
named for Mr. Hermann Beeger of Denver.

Bergamaskite—A variety of amphibole remarkable because contain-
ing almost no magnesia. It is described by Lucchetti as occurring in
quartzose hornblende-porphyry at Monte Altino, province of Bergamo,
Italy.

Berlauite—A name given by Schrauf to a chloritic substance filling
cavities between granite and serpentine, found in the serpentine region
near Budweis, Southern Bohemia. It is near other members of the
vermiculite group, but has not yet been shown to be a distinct min-
eral.

Brackebuschite.— A hydrous vanadate of lead, containing small
amounts of iron, manganese, and copper; related to descloizite. It
occurs in small prismatic erystals of a black color, with other vana-
dium minerals in the State of Cordoba, Argentine Republic. Named
by Doring after Dr. Brackebusch of Buenos Ayres.

Bunsenin.—See below under krennerite.

OHALCOMENITE. — Occurs in bright blue monoclinic erystals, and
crystalline crusts. In composition it is a hydrous selenite of copper.
The describers, Des Cloizeaux and Damour, speak of it as found with
MINERALOGY. 545

various selenides of silver, copper, and lead from the Cerro de Cacheuta,
Mendoza, Argentine Republic; it has resulted from the alteration of
these minerals.

Cobaltomenite.— According to Bertrand this is a cobalt selenite from
Cacheuta, in the Argentine Republic. It occurs in minute rose-red crys-
trals, resembling erythrite in appearance.

Cossyrite—A mineral near amphibole in form, but triclinic in form
and having a prismatic angle (cleavage) of only 114°. In composition
it approaches some very ferruginous amphiboles. Described by Foerst-
ner as found imbedded in the liparite lavas of the island of Pantellaria
(ancient name Cossyra).

Craigtonite—A name given by Heddle to a blue-black substance
forming dendritic stains on red granite, in the quarry of Craigton, Hill
of Fare, Aberdeenshire, Scotland. An analysis gave alumina, iron
sesquioxide, manganese protoxide, magnesia, and alkalies. Itis nota
mineral, and the name deserves no recognition.

Cyprusite—A supposed new iron sulphate of doubtful character; de-
scribed by Reinsch. It occurs in larger quantities in an impure con-
dition incrusting the side of a hill in the western part of Cyprus. It is
soft, chalk-like in consistency, and of a yellowish color.

Destinezite—Announced by Forir and Jorissen as a new iron phos-
phate related to delvauxite, but not yet fully described. It is from the
ampelite of Argenteau, Belgium, and occurs in yellowish-white, nodular
masses of earthy aspect.

Douglasite—A hydrous chloride of potassium and iron from the salt
mines of Douglass hall, Germany; described by Ochsenius and Precht.
It seems to be essentially the same as the Vesuvian mineral called
erythrosiderite by Seacchi.

Dumortierite—A. silicate of alumina occurring in prismatic erystals
of a light blue color, also in fibrous forms imbedded in blocks of gneiss
at Chaponost near Lyons, France. Named for the paleontologist, M,.
Eugéne Dumortier.

Hdmonsonite—A compound of nickel and iron identified by Flight in
the meteoric iron of Melbourne, Australia, and regarded as a new and
distinct mineral.

Hllonite.—A name attached by Heddle to a pale yellow unctuous pow-
der from the gneiss of Ellon, Aberdeenshire, Scotland. It is an impure
hydrous silicate of magnesia, not a distinct mineral.

Enophite—A name given by Schrauf to a chloritic variety of serpen-
tine, related to the hallite of Cooke. The specimens analyzed were
from the serpentine region of Southern Bohemia, near Budweis.

Hrilite—A name given by H. C. Lewis to minute acicular crystals
occurring as inclusions in quartz from Herkimer County, New York.
Their chemical nature was not determined; there is every probability
that they belong to some well-known species.

Lirythrozincite.—A mineral occurring, according to Damour, in thin

H. Mis. 26——35
516 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882.

crystalline plates in the lapis lazuli from Siberia. They havea red color,
and chemically contain sulphur, zinc, and manganese. Des Cloizeaux,
on the basis of an optical examination, regards it as probably a man-
ganesian variety of wurtzite.

Gunnisonite—A name given by Clarke and Perry to a supposed new
mineral from near Gunnison, Colo. The substance examined was mas-
sive and had a deep purple color. It contains calcium fluoride, silica,
lime, alumina, &c., and is probably either an altered or a very impure
fluorite. Itis not a distinct mineral.

Hieratite—According to Cossa, a potassium fluo-silicate. It forms
with lamelle of boracie acid stalactitic concretions of a grayish color
and generally spongy texture. The concretions contain also selen-sul- -
phur, arsenic sulphide, and the alums of potassium, cesium, rubidium,
and, in small quantities, thallium. From the fumaroles of the crater of
walesnn (Greek name Hiera), one of the Lipari Islands.

Hydrobiotite—A name used by Lewis for a hydrated biotite; also
employed, with a slightly different meaning, by Schrauf, in his descrip-
tion of the serpentine minerals of Budweis, Southern Bohemia.

ILESITE.—A hydrous sulphate of manganese chiefly, with also zinc
andiron. The mineral occurs in loosely adherent crystalline aggregates,
of a white color, and bitter, astringent taste. It is readily soluble in
water. Occurs in a siliceous gangue, with sulphides of iron and zine,
in Hall Valley, Park County, Colorado. “Named after Dr. M. W. Iles,
of Leadville,

Kelyphite—A gray serpentinous substance coating crystals of pyrope
from Kremze, near Budweis, Southern Bohemia. The name is given,
but without sufficient reason, by Schrauf.

KENTROLITE.—A silicate of manganese and lead, occurring in dark
reddish-brown crystals. The crystals are minute, and often grouped
in sheaf-like forms, resembling stilbite (the name is from the Greek
xevtpov, spike). Described by vom Rath and Damour as coming from
Southern Chili.

KRENNERITE.—A rare telluride of gold from Nagyag, Transylvania ;
it contains also a little silver and copper. It occurs in vertically
striated prismatic crystals, silver-white to brass-yellow in color, and
with brilliant metallic luster. It was first named Bunsenin by Krenner,
but afterwards more completely described by vom Rath under the
name Krennerite, because the former name already belonged to another
species.

Lautite——Described by Frenzel as a new mineral containing sulphur,
arsenic, copper, and silver; from Lauta, near Marienberg, Saxony.
Since shown by Weisbach to be a mixture of metallic arsenic with a
mineral related to tennantite; the name, consequently, is to be dis-
cerded.

Lennilite—A name given by Schrauf to a substance from Budweis,
Bohemia, produced by alteration, which is near the vermiculite of
MINERALOGY. 547

Lenni, Pennsylvania, described by Cooke. Schrauf writes the name
Lernilite, which, however, is a mistake in orthography for the form
above given.

Leucochalcite—A white mineral, with silky luster, occurring in slen-
der, needle-like crystals. It is essentially a hydrous arsenate of copper,
having a composition analogous to that of the phosphate tagilite. De-
scribed by Sandberger and Petersen as from the Wilhelmine mine in
the Spessart, Germany.

Manganbrucite—A manganesian variety of brucite, occurring, accord-
ing to Igelstrém, in granular form with hausmannite and other man-
ganese minerals at the Jakobsberg, Sweden. It is massive, shows no
cleavage, and has a honey-yellow to brownish-red color, though perhaps
originally nearly colorless.

MELANOTEKITE.—A silicate of iron sesquioxide and lead, apparently
related in composition to the manganese lead silicate called kentrolite
(see above). It occurs massive, with two cleavages; it has a metallic
to resinous luster, and black or blackish-gray color. It is found with
native lead, and intimately mixed with magnetite and yellow garnet at
the remarkable mines at Langban, in Wermland, Sweden. The same
locality has previously furnished two other lead silicates called hyalo-
tekite and ganomalite. The name melanotekite, given by Lindstrém,
is from pétas, black, and r7xerv, fo melt.

Molybdomenite.—A lead selenite, named by Bertrand, from podvfdes,
lead, and p7vy, moon. It occurs in thin, transparent crystalline lamellae,
white or slightly greenish, with vitreous luster. Obtained with other
selenium minerals from Cacheuta, Argentine Republic.

MONETITE.—A mineral from the guano of the islands of Moneta and
Mona, West Indies, described by C. U. Shepard, sr. It occurs in mi-
nute triclinic crystals, confusedly aggregated, of a white or pale yellow-
ish color. It is intimately mixed with gypsum. An analysis, by C. U.
Shepard, jr., shows that it contains lime, phosphoric acid, and water,
and making the hydrogen basic, it is an orthophosphate.

-Monire.—Another guano mineral, associated with the above mone-
tite, and named after the other island, Mona. It is intimately associated
with monetite, and occurs in an uncrystalline, earthy, slightly coherent
form, of a snow-white color. In composition it is a calcium orthophos-
phate, with one molecule of water.

Nitrobarite.—Groth has described crystals of native barium nitrate
from Chili. They are in apparent octahedrons, formed of the plus and
minus tetrahedrons; also in twins; the crystals are colorless. The
name nitrobarite was suggested by H. C. Lewis.

Nocerine.—According to a preliminary note by Scacchi, a double fluo-
ride of calcium and magnesium, occurring in white acicular crystals in
volcanic bombs in the tufa of Nocera.

Parachlorite and protochlorite—General terms used by Schrauf for
eertain groups of chloritic substances produced by alteration.
548 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882.

Phytocollite—A black gelatinous hydrocarbon, closely related to

dopplerite, first described by T. Cooper, later by H. C. Lewis, who at-
tached the above name (from gutoy, xodia, or plant-jelly). It was found
in a stratum of muck under a peat-bed at Scranton, Pa. When first ob-
tained it was jelly-like in consistency, but on exposure it became
tougher and elastic, like India rubber, and when quite dry it was hard
and brittle ; in the latter condition it burns with a yellow flame.
' Plinthite—A name given by Heddle to a substance of a deep red color
and greasy or dull luster, forming layers in amygdaloid, from Quiraing, in
Skye. It is an impure hydrous ferruginous silicate of alumina. There
is no excuse for attaching a new name in such a case.

Rezbanyite.-—According to Frenzel, a new sulpho-bismuthite of lead
from Rezbanya, Hungary. It is a massive mineral, of metallic luster
and light lead-gray color. It occurs intimately mixed with chalcopyrite
and calcite, also imbedded in quartz.

Rosterite.—A variety of beryl, occurring in short prismatic to tabular,
doubly-terminated crystals of a pale rose-red color. It differs somewhat
from the ordinary kinds in optical characters and in composition, but
is not to be regarded as distinct. From the island of Elba; described
by G. Grattarola.

Schneebergite.—A mineral of doubtful relations, occurring in transpar-
ent isometric crystals of vitreous to adamantine luster and honey-yellow
color. It contains principally lime and ‘antimony, but its exact chemi-
cal composition isunknown. Described by A. Brezina; from Schneeberg,
Tyrol.

Schuchardtite—A name given by Schrauf to the so-called chrysopra-
serde, from Gliiserndorf, Silesia.

Semseyite.—Briefly described by Krenner as occurring in gray metal-
lic crystals at Felsdbanya, Hungary. It contains sulphur, antimony,
and lead, and is said to be related to plagionite.

Serpierite—Occurs in minute tabular crystals, often grouped into
tufted forms. The color is greenish blue. The crystalline form has
been described by Des Cloizeaux, but its exact chemical composition
isunknown. Damour states it to be a basic sulphate of copper and zine.
It is from the ancient mines, recently re-opened, at Laurium, Greece.

Siderophyllite—A black mica from near Pike’s Peak, Colo., described
by H.C. Lewis. It is near biotite, but is remarkable as containing 253
per cent. of iron protoxide, and almost no magnesia.

Siliciophite—A heterogeneous substance, high in silica, produced by
the continued alteration of serpentine (derived from chrysolite) near
Budweis, Bohemia. The name was given by Schraut. It is not a min-
eral.

Steenstrupine.— A mineral described by Lorenzen, from the sodalite
syenite of Greenland. It occurs massive and indistinetly crystal-
lized, perhaps in rhombohedrons, of a brown color; it is associated
with lepidolite and zgirite. Chemically contains chiefly silica, the oxides
MINERALOGY. 5A

of the rare metals cerium, lanthanum, didymium, thorium; also iron,
- lime, soda, &c.

Talktriplite—A phosphate of iron and manganese protoxides, of lime
and magnesia, perhaps to be regarded as a triplite, peculiar in contain-
ing lime and magnesia. It occurs in small transparent grains of a yel-
low or yellowish-red color, together with lazulite, svanbergite, and other
phosphates, at the Horrsjéberg, in Wermland, Sweden. Described by L.
J. Igelstrom.

Tritochorite—A vanadate of lead, copper, and zinc, related to eusyn-
chite, described by Frenzel as from Mexico or South America. It isa
massive mineral, with fibrous-columnar structure, and blackish or yel-
lowish-brown color.

Tyreeite—A name given by Heddle to the soluble portion (in sul-
phuric acid) of a small amount of red mud obtained as a residue after
dissolving 150 pounds of the carnelian marble of Tyree, Scotland, in
hydrochloric acid. The author has given many names to bad minerals,
but this is the worst case of all.

Uranopilite—According to Weisbach a hydrous silicate of lime and
uranium, forming a lemon-yellow ocherous substance, at Johanngeorgen-
stadt, Saxony. The material analyzed was so impure that the existence
of a new mineral is yet to be proved.

Uranothallite—A hydrous carbonate of uranium and lime, occurring
in confused aggregates of siskin-green color at Joachimsthal ; the form,
according to Schrauf, approximates to that of aragonite. The same
mineral was earlier analyzed by Lindacker and partially described by
Vogl.

Uranothorite.—A variety of thorite remarkable as containing 10 per
cent. of uranium oxide. Thesingle specimen found was massive, had a
dark-red color, and resinous to subvitreous luster. Itis described by
P. Collier as from the Champlain iron region of New York, but the exact
locality is unknown.

ZINCALUMINITE.—A mineral occurring in thin hexagonal plates of
a white or slightly bluish color. It is a hydrous sulphate of zine and
alumina. It is described by Bertrand and Damour from the zine mines
of Laurium, Greece.
Se!

ash CooaL Leen
+) eee out :

Ts a f 5 5
rn
my Oe th Tpit s

: phar: : 4 Mbt 42) ME athe)

ess 4

AK mi i '
aaa:

ie aa

BOTANY.

By Prof. WILLIAM G. FARLOW.

The greatest activity has been shown this year in the departments of
vegetable physiology and anatomy and publications describing new spe-
cies of phenogams and fungi, while comparatively few works have ap-
peared relating to alge and higher cryptogams.

VEGETABLE ANATOMY.

Strasburger has published two important papers on the structure of
the cell. In his Theilungsvorgang der Zelikerne he describes and figures
the minute changes which the cell-nucleus undergoes during division,
and finally concludes that the division of the cell does not arise prima-
rily from the division of the nucleus, but rather that the changes which
tend to bring about cell-division are the exciting cause of the division
of the nucleus itself. In his second paper, Bau und Wachsthum der Zell-
hdute, he treats not only of the formation and thickening of the cell-wall,
but also of the growth of starch grains, the molecular structure of or-
ganized structures, the function of the nucleus, and several other points.
Many of the facts which have hitherto been explained by the theory of
intussusception Strasburger now believes can be better explained by
the apposition theory. He is confirmed in his previous view that the
nucleus plays an active part in the formation of protoplasm, since, if we
except the sieve-cells, the nucleus is of all the living parts of a cell the
most persistent part. Tangl has published a paper on the division of
the nucleus and the cell in the formation of the pollen in Hemerocallis
Julva, and the Bot. Zeitung has a paper by Zalewski on the division of
the nucleus in the mother cells of the pollen in some Liliacew. In the
last-named journal is also a paper by Zacharias, in which he gives a de-
tailed statement of the opinions of different writers on the chemical
nature of the different parts of the nucleus and a critical review of the
terminology of the parts of the nucleus. The chemical character of
protoplasm has been studied by Loew, Bokorny, and Reinke in papers
in the Bot. Zeitung and elsewhere, but the complications of the subject
can hardly be followed except by persons thoroughly versed in chem-
istry.

Two important papers have appeared from Schwendener—die Schutz-
scheide und ihre Verstérkungen and Scheitelwachsthum der Ehaneroguaes
552 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882.

Wiirzeln. In the first-named paper he discusses the formation and
thickening of the protective sheath and its adaptation to climate and
locality ; in the second he states that asa rule there are groups of
scheitel cells in phenogamic roots, four being a frequent number, al-
though in Heleocharis palustris there is a single cell, and he denies that
in the root there is a distinct plerom in the sense the word was used
by Hanstein. A new structure, which he calls the coleorhiza, has been
described in the young roots of Hucalyptus by Briosi. The development
of the hoftuepfel in Coniferz has been the subject of a controversy be-
tween Sanio and Russow in the Centralblatt. Russow’s original paper
appeared at Dorpat, in 1881, and this paper is the subject of a sharp
criticism by Sanio, to which Russow replied. The Annales des Sciences
contains French translations of the papers of Russow and Janezewski
on the structure and development of sieve-cells, which have been men-
tioned by us in reports for previous years. The Annales also contains
papers by Trécul on large spiral cells in the parenchyma of the leaves
of Crinum; by Mangin on the development of spiral cells, and on the
origin of adventive roots in Monocotyledons; and a paper by Vesque
on the possibility of characterizing species by means of their histo-
logical structure, followed by another-paper in which he applies this
principle to the Capparidacew, and shows that the species and groups
classified on an histological basis correspond closely to those formed
in the usual manner from morphological characters. In his Anatomie
der Baumrinden, Joseph Meeller describes the anatomical structure of
the bark of 592 different species of plants. In the third part of his
Beitrdge zur Morphologie des Blattes, Goebel treats of the arrangement
of the stamens in certain flowers. Under the title of Beitriige zur
allgemeinen Morphologie der Pflanzen, Fr. Schmitz gives to the botanical
world miscellaneous matter left by Hanstein, who at the time of his
death contemplated writing an extensive work on general morphology.

On the subject of vegetable embryology should be mentioned Ludwig
Koch’s Entwickelung des Samens von Monotropa hypopitys, in the Bot.
Zeitung; Guignard’s Recherches sur le sac enbryonnaire des Phanérogames
angiospermes ; Treub’s Notes sur Vembryo, le sac embryonnaire et Vovule,
in which the species specially studied were Peristylus grandis and Avi-
cennia officinalis ; and Bower’s “Germination and Embryogeny of G@ne-
tum Gnemon,” in Quart. Journ. Micros. There has also appeared a work
in Danish by N. Wille, on the Development of the Embryo in Ruppia ros-
tellata and Zannichellia palustris.

VEGETABLE PHYSIOLOGY.

The principal general work on physiology which has appeared this
year is Vorlesungen iiber Pflanzen-Physiologie, by Sachs. The author
states in the beginning that he has given up the intention of publish-
ing a fifth edition of his Handbuch, and that the present work is, to a
certain extent, a substitute for a new edition of that work. The sub-
BOTANY. ey

ject is presented in the form of twenty-two lectures. The first eleven
treat of the physiological organography of the organs of vegetation ;
the next two lectures treat of the general vital conditions and proper-
ties of plants; and the remainder of the book is devoted to the subject
of nutrition, which will be continued in the next volume. The second
part of Detmer’s System der Pflanzen-Physiologie, published in Schenk’s
Handbuch, is devoted to the physiology of growth. The continuation
of Van Tieghem’s work, Traité de Botanique, contains a large amount of
information on physiological subjects.

The subject of the action of light on plants and the relations of
chlorophyl to the plant economy has not occupied the attention of
botanists to the same extent that it did during 1881, although several
papers have appeared this year on the subject. Dr. Adolph Hansen,
in his doctorate thesis at Wiirzburg, called in question the correctness
of the views of Pringsheim on the nature of hypochlorin and its re-
lation to chlorophyl, and his paper was published at Leipsic this year.
Pringsheim in consequence addressed a circular to the philosophical
faculty of the University of Wiirzburg in support of his views, and this
circular, which is of a personal character, was embodied by him in an
article on Chlorophyllfunction und Lichtwirkung in der Pflanze, published
in Pringsheim’s Jahrbuch. The paper includes a summary of the views
of botanists up to the present day on the subject of assimilation.
Arthur Meyer, in the Bot. Zeitung, has a paper on the nature of what
Pringsheim calls hypochlorin-erystals, and another in the Centralblatt on
chlorophyl-grains, starch-builders, and chromatophors. A summary
of recent works on the nature and function of chlorophyll is given by
Bonnier in the Annales des Sciences. Pringsheim’s Jahrbuch contains
a lengthy paper on plant respiration by Godlewski. Schimper has a
paper on Gestalten der Starkebilner und Farbkorper in the Centralblatt.

The accuracy of Darwin’s views on the action of the root-tip, advanced
in his “* Power of Movement in Plants,” had been called in question by
Wiesner, and this year two pupils of Wiesner, Burgerstein and Toma-
schek, have published articles on the sensitiveness of the root-tip, in
which they agree with Wiesner in believing that there is no intrinsic
power in the tip by means of which it tends to grow away from an object
pressing against it. Kirchner, on the other hand, in studying the same
subject, thinks that the conclusions of Darwin are correct. A paper by
Darwin, was presented in March, before the Linnean Society, on the
‘¢ Action of carbonate of ammonia on the roots of certain plants.” In EHu-
phorbia peplus a cloud of fine granules is formed in the root-cells, even
when the carbonate is dissolved 1 part to 10,000 of water. In Cyclamen
the roots are turned green by the carbonate. At the same time Darwin
also presented a paper on the ‘‘Influence of the carbonate of ammonia
on chlorophyll bodies.” Dr. Emil Detlefsen, in a paper on what Darwin
has called the “brain function” of the root, in the Proceedings of the
Wirteburg Laboratory, concludes that the whole of the growing part of
554 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882.

the root, and not merely the tip, in consequence of unequally distributed
moisture, bends in the direction of the greater moisture.

Sachs, in his second paper on Stoff und Form der Pflanzenorgane, takes
occasion to criticise sharply the statements of Véchting in his Organ-
bildung im Pflanzenreich. Detlefsen in the Wirtzburg Proceedings of-
fers a mechanical explanation of the excentric thickenings of woody
stems and roots, and Kny has also published an elaborate paper on the
thickening of woody axes and its dependence on external influences.
In the second volume of Schenk’s Handbuch, Haberlandt has a treatise
on the Physiologischen Leistungen der Pflanzengewebe, which is an elabo-
ration of the subject of the physiological significance of the different
histological systems of plants from the point of view first adopted by
Schwendener in his Mekanische Princip des Monocotyledones Baues.
Cunningham, in the Quart. Journ. Micros., and Gardiner, in the Prec.
Royal Soc., state that by means of reagents which contract the proto-
plasm in contractile organs, especially in the pulvinus of the petioles
of the sensitive plant, there is a direct communication of the protoplasm
of adjacent cells through pits in the cell walls.

The relations of plants to insects and the contrivances for cross-fer-
tilization in different species have been studied by a number of botanists,
including several in this country. Hermann Miiller has a third part of
his Weitere Beobachtungen iiber Befruchtung der Blumen durch Insecten, in
which the arrangements for crossing in a considerable number of species
are given in detail, and also a paper on the “Relation of the Honey-bee
to Flowers,” in which he states that the bee assists not only in the crossing
of insectivorous but also of anemophilous flowers. In the Bot. Zeitung,
Miiller describes the biological significance of the arrangements for
crossing in Hremurus spectabilis. In a paper in the Proc. Nat. Hist.
Soc.of Boston, by Trelease, on the “Structures which favor cross-fertiliza-
tion in several plants,” he explains the arrangements for fertilization in
several obscure cases which have not been hitherto well studied by bot-
anists, more particularly in the Hricaceew and Proteacee. Trelease also
has a paper in Am. Naturalist, on the ‘‘ Heterogony of Oxalis violacea,”
and in the Bot. Gazette is a discussion by Trelease and A. F. Feerste as to
the character of the dichogamy in Umbellifere. The Am. Naturalist has
a paper by J. E. Todd on the flowers of Solanum rostratum and Cassia
chamecrista with reference to cross-fertilization. IF’. Ludwig, in Kosmos,
hints that in Philodendron bipinnatifidum fertilization may be aided by
snails. The subject of caprification is treated in an elaborate paper by
Solms-Laubach; and in Kosmos Fritz Miiller, under the title of Caprificus
und Feigenbaum, gives the results of his observations on the fertility of
fig treesin Brazil. ‘‘Insectivorous plants” are described by Schimper in
the Bot. Zeitung, the species observed belonging to the genera Sarra-
cenia, Drosera, and Utricularia.
BOTANY. 555

FERMENTS AND BACTERIA.

Most of the very numerous papers on bacteria have treated the sub-
ject from a purely medical point of view. Of those having also a botan-
ical interest the most important are two papers by Robert Koch. The
first paper, Ueber Tuberculose, published in the Berlin Medicin. Wochen-
schrift, contains a description of a new Bacillus, which is shown by
means of inoculations to be the cause of tuberculous disease, which
Koch shows to be contagious rather than hereditary. The second paper,
Ueber die Milzbrandimpfung, is a pamphlet published in reply to the
address delivered by Pasteur at Geneva, in September, before the inter-
national hygienic congress. In his address Pasteur replied to the
strictures upon his work made by Koch in the Mittheil. aus dem Kaiser-
lich. Gesundheitsamte, issued in 1881. The reply of Koch is impor-
tant from a botanical point of view, because, while criticising the inac-
curacy of some of Pasteur’s investigations, he admits that it is possible
by means of cultures to produce a harmless form of Bacillus from a
pathogenic form; in other words, he admits in the present paper what
he denied in his paper in the Gesundheitsamte, viz, the possibility of
changing the pathogenic character of a fungus like Bacillus anthracis
by changing its conditions of growth, and thus practically acknowledges
the truth of the view upheld by Pasteur, Naegeli, and Buchner. The
practical method of producing a harmless Bacillus for vaccination
from a pathogenic Bacillus may hereafter be considered as at least pos-
sible, even if the method at present pursued by Pasteur is not alto-
gether satisfactory. In the Proc. Roy. Soc., Dr. W. Roberts states that
he collected in glass globes the air expired by patients suffering with
phthisic and found constantly bacterial forms.

The Comptes Rendus contains several references to pathogenic bacteria.
Pasteur presented a report on the results of inoculation for splenic
fever in 85,000 cases, showing the reduced percentage of death in con-
sequence of the inoculation. Pasteur, in conjunction with Chamber-
land, Raux, and Thuillier, reports on the nouveaux faits pour servir a
la connaissance de la rage, and Strauss and Chamberland report their ob-
servations on cobayas, which seem to show that, contrary to the hitherto
accepted opinion, the “ bactéridie charbonneuse” can be transmitted
from the mother to the foetus. Richard describes an oscillarioid para-
site which is found in the blood corpuscles in malaria. A pathogenic
Schizophyte of the hog is described by Detmers in the Am. Naturalist.

In a paper read before the Munich Academy Buchner discusses the
experimental production of the splenic fever contagion, and gives an
account of the method used by him to transform the infectious into the
harmless form, which consists principally in allowing the bacillus to
grow in the presence of an abundance of free oxygen. Naegeli, in a
paper, Zur Umwandlung der Spaltpilzformen, emphasizes the fact that
the species of bacteria cannot be distinguished by their form, but can
556 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882.

only be determined by long and careful observations on their action
under different physiological and chemical conditions.

Zopf studied the development of several filamentous forms of Schizo-
mycetes and Schizophyte, and in his work, Zur Morphologie der Spalt-
pflanzen, as wellas in a preliminary communication in the Botanisches
Centralblatt, advances the view that forms commonly regarded as fila-
mentous may have a micrococcus, a bacterium, a leptothrix, a spiril-
lum, and in some cases even a spirochete condition, and he gives full
accounts of the different transformations in Cladothriz, Crenothrix, and
several other genera.

Dr. T. W. Engelmann has studied the relations of bacteria to light
and air, and comes to the conclusion that bacteria collect in heaps
where there is a development of oxygen, and he also describes in Pflii-
ger’s Archiv a new species, Bacterium photometricum, found in the
Rhine, in which he studied the action of light, and found that it did
not act momentarily, but produced an after effect, which he terms pho-
tokinetic induction. In the Centralblatt, Haberkorn has a paper on the
‘Genesis, Morphology, and Properties of Pathogenic Bacteria,” in which
he maintains the polymorphic nature of these organisms. The Bacteriais
the subject of a paper in the Eleventh Report Illinois Industrial Uni-
versity, by Prof. T. J. Burrill. It is a summary of the known species of
schizophytes, preceded by an introduction on the nature and effects of
bacteria. He gives full descriptions of Micrococcus amylonovus, pear
blight, Mf. tovicatus found in the poison dogwood, and JI. insectorum
found in the digestive organs of chinch bugs.

Two important papers relating to the action of species of Saccharomy-
ces in fermentation have appeared during the year. In the reports of the
Carlsberg Laboratory, Hansen gives an account of the organisms found
in the air at different seasons near Carlsberg, especially those which
can develop in beer wort. He found that Dematium pullulans could
invert sugar to some extent, and states that Saccharomyces pastorianus is
a dangerous organism in breweries on account of the rapidity with
which it produces alcoholic fermentation and the ease with which it
produces its endospores, while it gives a disagreeable, bitter taste to the
beer in which it is found. In Comptes Rendus, Gayon has a report on
the action of some molds in alcoholic fermentation. Some, as several
species of Mucor, produce a fermentation in glucose, but are not able
to invert cane sugar, so that in substances like molasses they can be
used as a means of separating cane sugar from other sugars. Edward
Kern has discovered a new ferment, which he calls Diaspora caucasica,
in a fermented liquor known as kephir, formed from milk in the Cau-
casus. Ferments et maladies, by E. Duclaux, is a good general statement
of the action of ferments of Saccharomycetes and Schizomycetes, both from
a chemical and pathological standpoint.
BOTANY. 55e

THALLOPHYTES.

Fungi.—Papers describing new species of fungi have been excessively
numerous, but those relating to their development have not been so
numerous as usual. Of developmental works mention should first be
made of Woronin’s beautifully illustrated Beitrdge zur Kenntniss der
Ustilagineen, which forms the fifth part of De Bary and Woronin’s Bei-
trdge zur Morphologie und Physiologie der Pilze. The greater part of
this paper is devoted to the development of Tuburcinia trientalis, and
at the end is a classification of the genera of Ustilaginew. The Bot.
Zeitung has a paper by Fisch on the “ Development of Ascomycetes,” in
whieh the principal genera studied were Polystigma, Xylaria, and Clani-
ceps. In the first-named genus Fisch found spermatia and trichogynes
resembling those found by Stahl in Collema, but no sexuality could be dis-
covered in the two last-named genera. In Grevillea and the Gardener’s
Chronicle Plowright gives an account of his experiments on the Hetere-
cism of Uredinee, in which he confirms the views of continental my-
cologists as to the connection between several forms, and shows further
that the teleutospores of Puccinia graminis may be made to grow directly
on wheat without the intervention of an ecidium. The act of fertilization
in Achlya and Saprolegnia was treated by Pringsheim in a paper read
before the Berlin Academy. He differs with De Bary in regard to the
apogamic character of some of the species of the genera named above,
and thinks that there is really a fertilization which may be accomplished
by means of motile masses of protoplasm, which he calls spermamcebe-
Zopf, in a communication in the Bot. Centralblatt states his belief that
the spermamcebe of Pringsheim are really parasites. The parasites of
Saprolegnice are described by Alfred Fischer in Pringsheim’s Jahrbuch.

Relating to the fungi of this country should be mentioned two papers
by Peck in the Torry Bulletin: “ Fungi in Wrong Genera,” where it is
shown that Mitruta inplata Schw. is a new genus of Basidiomycetes ; and
an “Imperfectly described Phalloid.”. New species of fungi are de-
scribed by Peck and Ellis in the Bulletin, the Bot. Gazette, and Am. Nat-
uralist, and anew Polyporus is described in the Bot. Gazette by A. P.
Morgan. Jichelia contains descriptions by Saccardo of more than a
hundred species of American fungi, most of which are new.

The most extensive descriptive work which has appeared during the
year is the Sylloge Fungorum of Saccardo, the first part of which forms
a large volume, including the Perisporiacee and a part of the Sphaeri-
acee. New British fungi have been described by Berkeley and Broome
in Ann. and Mag. Nat. Hist., and by Cooke in Grevillea. In the last-
named a is a Monograph of British Hypomyces,” by Plowright.
Cooke’s “Ilustrations of British Fungi” has been continued through
several parts. The first volume of Rabenhorst’s Krypotogamen Flora has
been continued during the year, completing the Uredinew and including
a large part of the Hymenomycetes. Michelia contains papers on the
558 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882.

Fungi Gallici and Fungi Veneti by Saccardo, who has, in addition,
issued parts 28 to 32 of his Fungi Italici Delineati. In Hedvwigia are
descriptions of new Ascomycetes by Rehm, and new Sordarie by Oude-
mans. Bainier, in his Etude sur les Mucorinées, describes several new
species of that order, and Blytt describes a new species of Myxomy-
Cetes, Clastoderma De Baryanum. The development of the sclerotium of
Peziza sclerotiorum has been published by Mattirolo in the Giorn. Bot.
Schreeter has notes on the genus Physoderma in the Bericht Schles.
Gesellsch. Fungi rom South America have been described by Speg-
gazzini; from Australia by Cooke, and from the Cape of Good Hope by
Kalehbrenner, the last two of which appeared in Grevillea. The Revue
Mycologique contains numerous notices of fungi by Roumeguére, includ-
ing notes on the species included in Fungi Gallict Exsiccati, which has
reached the “ 24th century.”

Of works relating to the diseases of plants caused by fungi should
be mentioned R. Hartig’s Lehrbuch der Bawmkrankheiten. Michelia
contains an elaborate article by Penzig, Funghi Agrumicoli, in which
he describes all the species of fungi known by him to be parasitic on
different species of Citrus. The diseases of grape-vines have been
treated by Millardet, Thuemen, and Comes. In his paper on Pourridié
et Phylloxera, Millardet ascribes the rotting of vines at first attacked
by Phylloxera to the growth of Rhyzomorpha fragilis, whose action
on the roots and young stems he describes and figures. Thuemen
ascribes the origin of the rotting of the roots to the moisture in the
ground. Comes considers what is known in Italy as the Mal Nero to
be a gummy degeneration like similar diseases in the Amygdalee.
Prillieux, in the Comptes Rendus, describes the change produced in
grapes by mildew. Marshall Ward presented to the Linnean Society
the results of his later observations on the coffee-leaf disease, giving
still stronger reasons than before for considering the fungus Hemileia
vastatrix to belong to the Uredinee. Prillieux regards the rot of
grapes as caused primarily by Peronospora viticola, and states that
Phoma uvicola follows, but is not the cause of the disease. He also
notes the occurrence of disease of beets in France caused by Pero-
nospora Schachtii. Of works relating to disease in animals caused by
plants of a higber grade than bacteria, we should mention the Actino-
mykosis des Menschen, in which Ponfick describes and figures a species of
Actinomyces, which attacks primarily the lower jaw in man, causing a
disease similar to one already known to occur in cattle. The diseases
produced by the growth of species of Aspergillus is the subject of a
paper by L. Lichtheim, in the Berlin Klinische Wochenschrvft.

Alge.—Among the more important works on the development and
general structure of alge should be mentioned the Chromatophoren der
Algen by Fr. Schmitz, in which he gives an account of the morphology
and development of the colored body in the cells of alge. These
BOTANY. a 559

bodies, which contain nuclei, to which he gives the name of pyrenoids,
are always derived from some previously existing chromatophor and
are not formed from the protoplasm proper. The Nuovo Giornale Bot.
Ital. contains an important continuation of Borzi’s ‘“‘ Morphology and
Biology of the Phycochromacee,” in which many new facts of the growth
and reproduction of that group are broughtforward. The paper of Zopf
on Spaltpflanzen, previously mentioned under the head of “ Bacteria,”
also contains an account of the development of certain Phycochromacea,
in which he finds that the filamentous species have also a glw@eocapsoid
condition. Pringsheim’s Jahrbuch contains a lengthy article by Ber-
thold, Beitrage zur Morphologie und Physiologie der Meeresalgen, relating
principally to the development of the frond. Rostafinski, in a paper on
Hydrurus und seine Verwandschaft, gives an account of the development
of that genus and a detailed synonymy of the species H. penicillatus.

Relating to the marine species of the United States, we would men-
tion a description of a new genus, Ph@osaccion, and some new species
by Farlow; ‘‘ Notes on New England Alge,” by F.S. Collins; and ‘ Note
on Arthrocladia villosa” by A. B. Hervey; all in the Bulletin of the Tor-
rey Club. “Fresh Water Alge of the United States” have also been
described in the Bulletin by Wolle.

The paper by Agardh, Til Algernes Systematik, isan illustrated account
of a number of new species and genera, most of which belong to the
Chordariacee and Dictyotacee. Theeighth monograph of the Flora and
Fauna of the bay of Naples is by Berthold, and includes the Bangiacea,
in which he gives an account of the reproduction by antheridia, and
procarps resembling those already known in other Floridea, although of
a more simple type. Of the second part of Rabenhorst’s Kryptogamen-
Flora, including the marine alg by Hauck, the earlier numbers ap-
peared at the end of the year, and include the lower orders of Ploridee.
Hauck has also described a curious new genus, Marchisettia. A species
of alga, Cladophora ophiophila, growing on a reptile, Herpetion, from
Bangkok, has been described by Magnus. New Arctic marine alge have
been described by M. Foslie, and alge from Patagonia and the Argentine
Republic have been described by Nordstedt in Bot. Notiser. In the Bo-
tanische Zeitung are articles by Fr. Schmitz and Just on Phyllosiphon
arisari, a singular parasite on the leaves of Arisarum in Italy, whose place
among alge is doubtful, and Schmitz is inclined to place it in fungi.
A new work by M. C. Cooke, on British Fresh-Water Algae, has ap-
peared, the three parts already issued this year including the Palmel-
laceew, Protococcaceee Volvocinee, and Zygnemacee. The Pediastra and
Palmellacee of the region of Stockholm have been described in a paper
by Lagerheim. “The Development and Systematic Position of Vam-
pyrella” is the subject of an illustrated paper by Klein, in the Bot. Cen-
tralblatt. Parts 9 and 10 of Wiltrock and Nordstedt’s Algea Scandi-
navice appeared during this year, together with an index to the ten parts
already published.
560 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882.

A number of descriptive papers on diatoms have appeared. Cleve
and Moller described a large number of species from Northern Siberia,
collected by the Vega Expedition ; Reinhard described the diatoms of
the White Sea; Cleve and Jentzsch, species from North Germany,
and Juhlin-Dannfelt, species from the Baltic. Of Schmidt’s Atlas der
Diatomeenkunde parts 19 and 20 have appeared, and of Van Heurck’s
Diatomées de Belgique, part 5, including the Crypto-Raphidee. The Am.
Micros. Journ. contains two articles on the motion of diatoms by H.
Mills and C. M. Vorce.

Lichens.—The most important work on lichens which has appeared
during the year is Tuckerman’s Synopsis of North American Lichens,
part 1, which gives descriptions of all our species of Parmeliacei, Clo-
doniei, and Cenogoniei, including 411 species and 46 genera. Minks
has issued a second part of his Symbole Licheno-Mycologice. G. Krabbe,
in the Bot. Zeitung, has an article on the apothecia of certain lichens,
belonging principally to the genera Bwomyces and Cladonia, and finds
that the formation of the apothecia is entirely a vegetative process, as
he was unable in the genera studied to find ascogonia and trichogynes,
as had been observed in Collema by Stahl. Additions to the lichen
flora of Europe have been published by Nylander in Flora, which jour-
nal also contains the continuation of Arnold’s Lichenologische Frag-
mente; Jatta has described Lichens from Southern Italy in the Giorn.
Bot.; Miiller, Socotra lichens, collected by Bayley Balfour, in Proc. Roy.
Edin. Soc.; and Crombie, species collected in the East Indies by Main-
gay, in the Proc. Linn. Soc. The Lichenes Gallict of Roumeguére have
been continued in a fourth part, and Olivier’s Herbier des Lichénes de
VOrne ct du Calvados has been continued through parts 5 and 6. In the
Journ. Linnean Soc., Charles Knight has described a considera blé num-
ber of new species from New South Wales.

ARCHEGONIATA.

Characee.—The manuscript of the late Alexander Braun has been
edited by Norstedt, and has been published in the Abhandl. Akad.,
Berlin, under the title Fragmente einer Monographie der Characeen. The
number of species and subspecies described is 142, including many forms
which had not been previously described. In this country Dr. T. F.
Allen has published two papers: ‘Observations on some American
Forms of Chara coronata” in Am. Naturalist; and ‘‘ Development of
the Cortex in Chara” in the Torrey Bulletin.

Hepatice.—But little has appeared on this group of plants. Lind-
bere’s Monographia precursoria Peltolepidis, Sauteria, et Cleve, besides
treating of the three genera just named, has notes on some other Mar-
chantiacee. Massalongo and Carestia describe some Hepatice from the
Apennines, in the Giorn Bot. A geteral synopsis of the Hepatice of
BOTANY. 561

Germany, Austria, and Switzerland has been published by P. Sydow,,.
under the title Die Lebermoose Deutschlands, etc. In the Bot. Gazette:
for February, L. M. Underwood gives a list of North American Hepati-
ce, including 49 genera and 219 species.

Musci.—A number of important papers on Sphagnee should be men-
tioned. In his Promotionsprogramm, Lindberg gives an account of
“ Kuropean and North American Sphagna,” preceded by a short notice
on the general organization and development of mosses. In Flora,
Warnstorf describes some new German Sphagna, and in the Bot. Central-
blatt, the same writer gives an account of the Sphagna in the royal botan-
ical museum at Berlin. He has also issued a second part of his Sphagno-
theka Europea. The Oentralblatt also has a paper, by Limpricht, Zur
Systematik der Torfmoose. Husnot has published a paper on the same
group, Sphagnologia Europea. One of the most important papers on
mosses is C. Mueller’s Prodromus Bryologie Argentinice, the second
part of which appeared this year in Linnea, and contains descriptions
of 131 new species, collected principally by Lorentz. The British Moss-
flora of Braithwaite has been continued through part 6, which includes
the Dicranacee. In the Proc. Roy. Soc.of Victoria isan “Enumeration
of Australian Mosses,” by Mitten. Of other papers on mosses we would
mention Lindberg’s ‘‘ Observations on Species of Timmia” and Ventuzi’s
Barbule rurales, both in the Revue Bryologique; Limpricht’s “* New and
Critical Mosses” in Flora; Fehlner’s Moss-Flora of Lower Austria; Ge-
bel’s Male Inflorescence of Polytrichum, and Lindberg’s Families and Gen-
era of Swedish and Norwegian Mosses.

ferns and higher Oryptogams.—Katon describes some ‘ New or little
known Ferns of the United States” in the Torrey Bulletin, and in the same
journal are ‘Fern Notes” Nos. 3 and 4, by G. E. Davenport, besides
numerous other short notices of species in new localities from several
contributors.

Dr. J. H. Mellichamp records the occurrence of Psilotum triquetrum in
Blufiton, S.C. In the Botanical Gazette, Davenport has some “ Notes on
Alaska Ferns,” and J. @. Lemmon describes a new species, Woodsia
Plummere. The Trans. Saint Lowis Academy contains an elaborate paper
by Dr. Engelmann on the Genus Isoetes, with minute descriptions of
North American species and a very full account of their distribution.
An enlarged second edition of Lucien M. Underwood’s, Our Native Ferns
and their Allies, contains synoptical descriptions of the American Pteri-
dophyta north of Mexico.

Of papers on exotic ferns there is very little to be said. In the Journ.
Linn. Soc. Baker describes some species, collected by Rey. R. B. Comins,
in the Solomon Islands, and in the Journ. Bot. the same writer describes
some ferns from Southern Brazil. The Bot. Centralblatt has a paper by

Luerssen, Pteridvlogische Mitthetlung, in which he describes some spe-
H. Mis. 26——36
562 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882.

cies from New Holland and Polynesia. The development of the fruit
of Pilularia globulifera is discussed by Goebel in the third part of his
Beitrdge zur Entwickelungsgeschichte der Sporangien.

PHAINOGAMS.

‘Relating to species of this country, we should mention, in the first
place, Gray’s Contributions to North American Botany, which consists of
two parts. The first gives the results of his studies of Aster and Solidago
in the older herbaria; the second, entitled Novitie Ari izonice, describes
principally ES ie from hes and adjacent regions, including
several new genera. In a note two new gentians are described by
Engelmann. In the Bot. Gazette, Professor Gray describes a new spe-
cies, Parishella Californica, and at the meeting of the Am. Ass. Ady.
Sci., at Montreal, he delivered an address on the history of the study of
botany in this country. In the Proc. Am. Acad. of Boston, Watson
has published a list of plants from Southwestern Texas and Northern
Mexico, consisting principally of Polypetale collected by Dr. E. Palmer
in 187980, and a ‘“‘ Description of New Species of Plants,” chiefly from
the Western Territories. Several important papers by Dr. Engelmann
have appeared in different journals. In the Botanical Gazette are “ Notes
on Western Conifers ;” ‘“ Additions to the North American Flora,” in-
cluding new species of Stellaria, Campanula, &e.; the “ Black-fruited
Crategi,” with a description of a new species, C. brachyacantha; and
‘““Some Notes on Yucea.” In the Gardener’s Chronicle, Engelmann has
some notes on Picea Engelmanni and Pinus pungens. New grasses have
been described by Vasey, species of Poa and Stipa from California, in
Lot, Gaz.; and species from Arizona and California, described in Torr.
Bull. by F. L. Scribner. Dr. Parry has papers on a new rose, FR. minuti-
folia, and on the “Fruits of Cucurbita,” both in Torr Bulletin. M.S.
Bebb has * Notes on Salix Sitchensis and its Affinities,” and ‘ Salix flave-
scens var. Scouleriana,” both in Bot. Gazette. ‘* New Species of Com-
posite” and “ New Western Plants” by E. L. Greene, and ‘ New Cali-
fornia Plants” by M. E. Jones, have appeared in the Yorr. Bulletin.
The Bulletin also contains “ Notes on Hybrid Oaks” by Professor
Meehan and N. L. Britton; “Notes on the Trees of the Southwest”
by H. S. Rusby; ‘Notes on the White Mountain Flora” by W. W.
Bailey; and a paper on the ‘“‘ Migration of Weeds” by H. W. Ravenel.
The *“ Native Trees of the Lower Wabash” are described by Robert
Ridgway in the Proc. National Museum. The Flora Peoriana, by Fred.
Brendel}, is an account of the plants near Peoria, ill., published in Ger-
man at Buda-Pesth.

Except as continuations of previous works, no very elaborate books
have appeared this year on exotie floras. Vol. v of Boissier’s Flora
Orientalis includes monocotyledons. Hooker’s Flora of India has been
continued, and also the Jcones Plantarum, which has reached the 4th
BOTANY. 563

volume of the 3d series. Hooker has also described a new genus of
rubber-producing plants, Dyera, from the Malay Archipelago. J. G.
Baker has published Contributions to the Flora of Central Madagascar,
and he has also described four new Bromeliacew from British Guiana.
G. Maw gives the Life History of a Crocus and the classification and
geological distribution of the genus. Crepin’s monograph of Roses has
been continued, and his Manuel de la Flore de Belgique has reached a
fourth edition, while the popular Flora von Deutschland, by Garcke, has
reached a fourteenth edition. Ferd. Mueller’s Eucalyptographia and his
Fragmenta Phytographice Australice have been continued in parts. Spe-
gazzini, who has been traveling in South America, has made a prelim-
inary report on the flora of Patagonia and Terra del Fuego. New orchids
have been described by Reichenbach and four new genera of Aroidee
by N. E. We should also notice the appearance af Arcangeli’s Com-
pendio della Flora Italiana; Regel’s description of plants in the Reise
nach Turkestan; a monograph of the European Festucee by Edouard
Hackel; the Palmacece of the Flora Brasiliensis by Drude; and Bret-
schneider’s Botanicon sinicum. Engler’s Jahrbiicher includes several
important papers on different orders discussed from a morphological
point of view, amongst which are Heeck’s Morphology and Distribution
of Valerianacee ; Koehne’s monograph of Lythracee ; and Buchenau’s
Beitrdge zur Kenntniss der Butomaceen, Alismaceen, und Juncaginaceen.
With relation to the foliar theory, as shown in the truit of the abietinee,
there has been a controversy between Celakovsky and Hichler, and there
is a review of the subject by Dr. Engelmann in the Am. Journ. Science.

GENERAL.

Under this heading may be mentioned A. P. De Candolle’s Origine des
Plantes cultivées, which is avery important contribution to our knowledge
of the origin of useful plants. The second part of Engler’s Versuch
einer Entwickelungsgeschichte der Pflanzenwelt includes the extra-tropical
regions of the southern hemisphere and the tropics. Cohn’s Die Pflanze
is a Series of popular essayson various botanical topics, historical, phys-
iological, &c. John Smith has published a Dictionary of Popular Names
of the Plants which furnish the natural and acquired wants of man.

@
MELT

eine 5,
. a

i) H 2 * » bh) A
( ser h sea enoreee
1. aye ... ie
tot Be)

;

r ?

- :

? 4 ¥

ZOOLOGY.

By Prof. THEODORE GILL.

INTRODUCTION.

Zoologists continued during the year 1882 the lines of investigation
followed in the past, and the methods of modern science have been
applied to the investigation of various mooted questions in Morphology
and Taxonomy. Some valuable works have been published on sys-
tematic Zoology, and of these several are worthy of special mention on
account of the completeness with which the classes treated of have been
brought up to date. Such are Mr. Saville Kent’s ‘‘Manual of the Infu-
soria,” Professor Verrill’s ‘‘Report on the Cephalopods of the north-
eastern coast of America,” Mr. G. A. Boulenger’s catalogues of the
Batrachia Salientia, Gradientia, and Apoda in the collection of the
British Museum. On account of the geneyal interest attached to the
groups thus elaborated, the results of the investigations recorded in
these volumes are detailed at some length.

Another subject of popular interest that has received unusual atten-
tion the past year is the natural history and especially the natural and
artificial propagation of the oysters. Much light has been thrown on
the life history of that important mollusk, and it can be foreseen that
man may greatly assist nature and thereby benefit himself by due atten-
tion to those details which science has shown to be necessary for suc-
cessful ostreaculture.

The line of zoological stations which may be said to have been inaugu-
rated by the establishment of that at Naples, now so well known, less
than ten years ago, seems destined soon to girdle the globe.

A station has been established at Sydney, New South Wales, chiefly
through the efforts of Baron Miclucho-Maclay. Among other contribu-
tions, the Royal Society of New South Wales has made a grant therefor
of £25 for the year, and assistance is expected from the Royal Society
of Victoria and the Australian Biological Association. The station will
be open to “biologists of the male sex” of all nations on the payment of
a small weekly sum, which is to meet the expenses of service, &c.

The past year may also be considered as memorable for the great mor-
tality that occurred among the marine animals along the shallower part
of a belt “(in 70 to 150 fathoms) where the southern forms of life and

565-
566 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882.

higher temperatures (48° to 50°) are found.” The cause is supposed to
have originated in March. (See Verrill in A. J. 8., (3,) Nov., 1882.)

Questions of nomenclature have received attention from various natu-
ralists as well as scientific bodies. The Zoological Society of France
published a report on Rules applicable to the Nomenclature of Organic
Beings (Régles applicable ala Nomenclature des Etres Organisés). The
proposed rules are essentially those which for a long time have regu-
lated.the usage of zoologists, but there are some which have not found
universal acceptance, and some which are of trivial importance. Thus,
it is recommended that specific names derived from persons should be
nouns in the genitive and with a single 7 (unless actually used and
declined otherwise in the Latin language), as in Lamarcki, while those
referring to places should be adjectives, e. g., Nes-Batavus and not
Nove-Hollandie. Discretion is permitted as to the use of capital or
small initials for proper names. Names of similar import, as ‘“ flwvio-
rum, fluvialis, and fluviatilis,” are negatived for different species of the
same genus; and names once used, but failen into disuse, cannot be re-
peated or resurrected for other forms. It is laid down, also, that no
name once published shall ever be discarded on account of its impro-
priety. Families should invariably have the patronymic termination
ide.” (A. J.5., (3,) Vv. 23, pp. 157-158.)

As in the previous report a partial bibliography of noteworthy mem-
oirs and works relating to different classes of animals is supplied, and
will, it is hoped, prove to be of use to those to whom the voluminous
bibliographies and records ‘of progress in science are inaccessible. But
it has been a difficult matter to select the titles which might be most
advantageously introduced in a limited report like the present. Arti-
cles of a general interest or of special importance as contributing to
throw light on the affinities of certain groups have been given the first
place. Necessarily many very important papers have not been referred
to and very few descriptive of species have been admitted, and only
when urusual interest attaches to the new species or the groups which
they enlarge.

The compiler desires to make special acknowledgment for most mate-
rial assistance to the Zoologischer Anzeiger of Professor Carus and to
the Journal of the Royal Microscopical Society.

The language of the original from which the abstract is compiled is
generally followed as closely as the case will permit, as the advantages
of such a course must be obvious to all on a little reflection. It has,
however, been found necessary to limit the abstract to the illustration
of the prominent idea underlying the original memoir, and pass by the
proofs and collateral arguments. At the same time it has been often
attempted to bring the new discovery into relation with the previous
status of information respecting the group under consideration. As to
the special discoveries recorded, they have been generally selected (1)
on account of the modifications the forms considered force on the sys-
ZOOLOGY. ho?

tem; or (2) for the reason that they are or have been deemed to be of
high taxonomic importance; or (3) because the animals per se are of
general interest; or finally (4) because they are of special interest to
the American naturalist. Of course, zoologists cultivating limited
fields of research will find in omissions cause for censure, and may urge
that discoveries of inferior importance have been noticed to the exciu-
sion of those better entitled to it. It is freely admitted that this charge
may even be justly made; but the limits assigned to the record have
been largely exceeded, and the recorder has studied the needs of the
many, rather than of the few. The summary is intended, not for the
advanced scientific student, but for those who entertain a general inter-
est in zoology or some of the better-known classes.

SYNOPSIS OF ARRANGEMENT.

I. GENERAL ZOOLOGY.
II. PRoTOZOANS.—Sporozoans; Infusorians.
III. PORIFERS.—Sponges.
IV. C@LENTERATES.—Polyps ; Acalephs.
V. ECHINODERMS.— Echinoderms.
VI. Worms.—Dicyemids; Platyhelminths; Nematelminths; An-
nelids.
VII. ARTHROPODS.—Merostomes; Crustaceans; Arachnids; In-
sects.
VIII. MoLLuscorms.—Polyzoans; Brachiopods. .
IX. MoLuusks.—Conchifers ; Gastropods; Cephalopods.
X. PROTOCHORDATES.—Tunicates.
XI. VERTEBRATES.—Fish-like Vertebrates; Leptocardians; My-
zonts; Selachians; Fishes; Amphibians; Reptiles; Birds; Mammals..

I. GENERAL ZOOLOGY.

HISTORICAL ZOOLOGY.

Archiv fiir Naturgeschichte. Gegriindet von A. F. A. Wiegmann. Fortgesetzt von.
W. F. Erichson. In Verbindung mit Prof. Dr. R. Leuckart in Leipzig herausge-
geben von Dr. F. H. Troschel, Professor in der Friedrich-Wilhelms-Universitit
zuBonn. 48.Jahrgang. Berlin, Nicolaische Verlags-Buchhandlung, 1882. (8vo.).

Bibliotheca Historico-naturalis, physico-chemica et mathematica, oder systematisch
geordnete Uebersicht der in Deutschland und dem Auslande auf dem Gebiete der
gesammten Naturwissenschaften, etc., erschienenen Biicher. Herausgegeben von
F. Frenkel. xXxxi. Jahrg. Gottingen, Vandenhoeck & Ruprecht, 1882. (8vo:
M. 1.20.)

Zoological (The) Record for 1881, being Vol. xvi of the Record of Zoological Litera-
ture. Edited by Edw. Caldwell Rye. London, Van Voorst, 1882. (8vo.)

Zoologischer Anzeiger. Herausgegeben von Prof. J. Victor Carus. V. Jahrgang,.
1882. Leipzig, W. Engelmann, 1882. (S8vo.)

Zoologischer Jahresbericht fiir 1880. Herausgegeben von der zoologischen Station za
Neapel. Redigirt von J. Victor Carus. I. Abth. Allgemeines bis Vermes. IF:
Abth. Arthropoda. III. Abth. Tunicata, Mollusca. IV. Abth. Vertebrata.
Leipzig, Engelmann, 1882. (8vo.)
568 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882.

DIRECTORY.

International (The) Scientists’ Directory. Containing the Names, Addresses, Special
Departments of Study, etce., of Amateur and Professional Naturalists, etc., etc., in
America, Europe, Asia, Africa, and Oceanica. Compiled by Sam. E. Cassino. Bos-
ton, S. E. Cassino & Co, 1€82. (8vo. vu, 391 pp.)

SYSTEMATIC ZOOLOGY.

Bert (Paul). Lectures sur l’histoire naturelle des Animaux, suivies d’un Vocabulaire
des mots techniques employés dans l’ouvrage. Paris, Hachette & Co., 1882.
(12mo. Iv, 399 pp., 75 fig., Fres. 2.)

Brehm’s Thierleben. Mit 170 Tafeln in Farbendruck, unter Leitung der Zoologen
Dr. Girtanner, Klunzinger, O. Schmidt und Taschenberg nach dem Leben ausge-
fiihrt vom Maler Olof Winkler. 4 Bd., 8 Heft, [etc.] Vogel. Leipzig, Bibliogr.
Instit., 1881. (8vo. M. 1 each.)

Bronn’s Klassen und Ordnungen des Thierreichs. 1. Bd. Protozoa, neu bearbeitet
von O. Biitschli. 10-19. Lief. 2. Bd., Porifera, neu bearbeitet von G. C. J.Vos-
maer. 1 Lief. 6. Bd., 3. Abth. Reptilien, von C. K. Hoffmann. 30—35. Lief.
{ete.] Leipzig und Heidelberg, C. F. Winter’sche Verlagshandlung, 1882. (8vo.
M. 1.50 each. )

Claus (C.) Grundziige der Zoologie. 4. Aufl. 2.Bd. 2. Lief. (Schluss.) Marburg,
Elwert, 1882. (8vo. M. 4.)

Traité de Zoologie. 2. édit. franc trad. sur. la 4. édit. allem. Entiérement re-
fondue et considerablement augmentée par G. Mogquin-Tandon. Paris, 1882~83.
(8vo. 1. 2. Fasc.)

Edwards (A. Milne). Eléments d’histoire naturelle des Animaux. I. Partie Zoologie
méthodique et descriptive. Paris, Masson, 1881. (18mo. 395 pp., 487 fig.)
Hayek (Gustay von). Grofter Handatlas der Naturgeschichte aller drei Reiche. In
120 Folio-Tafeln ausgefuhrt von S. Czeiger in Wien. 1—4, Lief. Wien und Leip-

zig, Mor. Perles, 1882. (Fol., M. 2 each.)

Koehne (E.) Repetitions-Tafeln fiir den zoologischen Unterricht an héheren Lehran-
stalten. 1. Hft. Wirbelthiere. 3. Aufl. 2. Hft. Wirbellose Thiere. 2. Aufl.
Berlin, H. W. Miiller, 1882. (8vo. 4 M. 80.)

Leonhardt (Carl). Vergleichende Zoologie fiir die Mittel und Oberstufe héherer
Schulen. Mit 18 lith. Taf. Jena, P. Matthaei, 1883. (Sept., 1882. 8vo, xiv, 330
pps MGs) .

Leuckart (Rudolf) und H. Nitsche. Zoologische Wandtafeln zum Gebrauche an Uni-
versititen und Schulen. 4. Lief. Taf. X-XI. Cassel, Fischer, 1881. (M. 5.)
Lubarsch (O.) Systematischer Grundriss der Zoologie. 2. Theil. Wirbellose Thiere.

Berlin, Hirschwald, 1882. (8vo, iv, pp. 135-255. M. 2.)

ZOOTOMY.
General.

Aristoteles. On the Parts of Animals. Translated, with Introduction and Notes,
by W. Ogle. London, Paul, 1882. (8vo, 280 pp. 12s. 6d.)

Briihl (C. B.) Zootomie aller Thierklassen fiir Lernende nach Autopsien skizzert.
Lief. 26. Wien, A. Hélder, 1882. (4to. M. 4 each.)

Perrier (Edmond). Anatomie et Physiologie animales pour l’enseignement de la
Zoologie dans la classe de philosophie, ete. Avec 328 fig. Paris, Hachette &
Co., 1882. (8vo, xii, 608 pp. Fres. 8.)

Schmidt (Edouard Oscar). Handbuch der vergleichenden Anatomie. Leitfaden bei-
zoologischen und zootomischen Vorlesungen. 8. Aufl. Jena, G. Fischer, 1882.
(8vo, iv, 327 pp. M. 7.50.)

> ae
ZOOLOGY. 569
Invertebrates.

Brooks (William K.) Handbook of Invertebrate Zoology for Laboratories and Sea-
side Work. Boston, S. E. Cassino, 1882. (8vo, 392 pp.)

EMBRYOLOGY.

Metschnikoff (E.) Vergleichend-embryologische Studien. 3. Uber die Gastrula
einiger Metazoen. Mit 2 Taf. Zeitschr f. wiss. Zool., 37. Bd. 2. Hft. pp. 286-313.

Valaoritis (Em.) Die Genesis des Thier-Eies. Nach der Tode des Verfassers heraus-
gegeben von W. Preyer. Mit 3 Taf. u. 1 Hotzschn. Leipzig, Th. Gueben’s Ver-
lag, 1882. (8vo, X11, 227 pp. M. 6.)

EVOLUTION.

Pusey (S. E. B. Bouverie). Permanence and evolution; an Enquiry into the sup-
posed Mutability of Animal Types. London, Kegan Paul, French & Co., 1882.
(8vo.) '

Romanes (George J.) The Scientific Evidences of Organic Evolution. London,
MacMillan, 1882. (12vo, 88 pp., 2s. 6d. Nature Series.)

NOMENCLATURE.

Scudder (Samuel H.) Nomenclator Zoologicus. An alphabetical list of all generic
names that have been employed by naturalists. Part 1. Supplemental List.
Washington, Govt. Printing Office, 1882. (8vo, xxi, 376 pp. Bull. U.S. Nat.

Mus., No. 19.)
TAXIDERMY.

Martin (Ph. L.) Die Praxis der Naturgeschichte. 3 Theile. 3. Th. Naturstudien. 2.
Halfte. Allgemeiner Naturschutz ; Einbiirgerung fremder Thiere und Gesund-
heitspflege gefangener Saiigethicre und Végel. Bearbeitet von Ph. L. Martin
u. Sohn. Die Pilege gefangener Reptilien und Amphibien nebst Pflege und
Ziichtung der Makropoden. Bearbeitet von Bruno Diirigen. Weimar, B. F.
Voigt, 1882. (8vo, xv, 210, pp. M. 5.)

GEOGRAPHICAL DISTRIBUTION.
General,

Blanchard (Emile.) Les preuves de l’effondrement d’un continent austral pendant:
lage moderne de la Terre. Compt. rend. Acad. Sc., Paris, t. 94, pp. 386-393.

Thomé (Otto Wilhelm). Thier-und Pilanzengeographie. Nach der gegenwiirtigen Ver-
breitung der Thiere und Pflanzen, so wie mit Riicksicht auf deren Beziehung zum
Menschen dargestellt. Mit zahlreichen Voll-und Textbildern in Holzschn.
Stuttgart, Spemann, 1882. (8vo. M. 14, 50.)

Arctic Regions.

Norske (Den) Nordhavs-Expedition, 1576-1878. VI. Zoologi. Christiania, 1882,
viz:
6. Holothuroidea, by D. C. Danielssen and Johan Koren. 2 titles, 95 pp., 13 pl.
1 map. 1882.
7. Annelida, by G. Armauer Hansen. 2 titles, 54 pp., 1 map, 7 pl., 1882.
8. Mollusea. I. Buccinide, by Herman Friele. 2 titles, 38 pp., 1 map, 6 pl., 188%

North America.

United States Commission of Fish and Fisheries. Part VII. Report of the Commis
sioner for 1879.—A. Inquiry into the decrease of food-fishes. B. The propaga-
tion of food fishes in the waters of the United States.—Washington, Govt. Print-
ing Office, 1882. (8vo, liv and 846 pp.; many plates.)
570 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 15882.

Verrill (A. E.) Notice of the remarkable Marine Fauna occupying the outer banks off
the Southern coast of New England. No. 7; and of some additions to the Fauna
of Vineyard Sound. Amer. Journ. Se., (3,) v. 24, p. 360-376.

Notice of recent additions to the Marine Invertebrata of the North Eastern

coast of America, with descriptions of New Genera and Species, and critical Re-

marks on others. Part IV. Additions to the Deep-Water Mollusca, taken off

Martha’s Vineyard in 1880 and 1881. Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., v. 5, pp. 315-343.

Ewrope.

Germany. Vierter Bericht der Commission zur wissenschaftlichen Untersuchung
der deutschen Meere, in Kiel fiir die Jahre 1877-1881. Herausgegeben von H. A.
Meyer, K. Mobius, G. Karsten, V. Hensen, A. Engler, 7.-11. Jahrg. 1. Abth.
Berlin, Parey, 1882. (Fol., xix, 184 pp., 15 Taf. M. 25.)

Graeffe (Ed.) Biologische Notizen tiber Seethiere der Adria. 1. Uber die bei Oxyrhyn-
chen vorkommende Maskirung. Mit 2 Taf. Bollett. Soc. Adriat. Sc. Nat., v. 7.
Fasc. 1, 1882. (11 pp.)

Suez Canal.

Keller (Kour.) Die Fauna im Suez-Kanal und die Diffusion der mediterranen und
erythriischen Thierwelt. Mit 1 Taf. und 1 Karte. Denkschr. d. schweiz. Ges.
fiir die ges. Naturwiss., 28. Bd., (39 pp.)

Southern Faunas.

Edwards (Alphonse Milne). Recherches sur la Faune des regions australes. Suite.
Avec6 pl. Ann. Sc. Nat. Zool., (6,) t. 13, Art. 5 (64 pp.)

II. PROTOZOANS.
GENERAL.

Balbiani (E. G.) Les Organismes Unicellulaires. Les Protozoaires. Legons faites
au Collége de France. Journ. de Microgr., 6. ann.
Biitschli (O.) Protozoa. Neu bearbeitet. 8. Lief. Leipzig, C. F. Winter, 1882.
(Bronn’s Klassen und Ordnungen Thierreichs. )
Lanessan (J. L. de). Traite de Zoologie. Protozoaires. Paris, Doin, 1882. (8vo, vii,
336 p., 281 fig. Fres. 10.)
SPECIAL GROUPS.

Infusorians.

Kent (William Saville), A Manual of the Infusoria, including a description of all
known Flagellate, Ciliate, and Tentaculiferous Protozoa, British and Foreign, aud
an account of the organization and affinities of the Sponges. London, 1880-1882.

(8vo.)
Sporozoans.

Balbiani (E.) Les Sporozoaires. Seconde partie du Cours d’Embryogenie comparée,
professe au Collége de France pendant le second semestre de 1882. Journ. de Mi-
crogr., 6. ann., pp. 281-290; pp. 348-356; pp. 448-457.

Schneider (Aime). Seconde Contribution & l’étude des Grégarines. Avecl pl. Arch.
Zool. Expérim., t. 10, pp. 423-450.

Kent's classification of the Infusorians.

In the report on the progress of zoology during 1881, a notice was
given of ‘A Manual of the Infusoria,” by Mr. W. Saville Kent, condensed
from the journal of the Royal Microscopical Society: the notice of the
work in that journal not having been entirely comprehensible, the ex-

—
ZOOLOGY. 571

cerpts were indicated by quotation marks. Some misapprehension was
evidently entertained, as the classification really given by Mr. Kent is
quite different from what would be supposed from the original notice.
The Infusorians of Kent are accepted with nearly the same limits as were
accorded to them by Pritchard, and are essentially those Protozoans
which for some time have enjoyed the name, including the mouthed
forms and certain others evidently related to them, though destitute of
the “mouth.” The sponges are, however, also included in the group,
although the best theoretical naturalists now regard them as the most
generalized of metazoic animals, and thus differentiated as representa-
tives of a series contrasting with the Protozoans. Three classes are ad-
mitted by Mr. Kent for the Infusorians, and are designated by him
Flagellata, Ciliata, and Tentaculifera. These three classes include about
900 species, representing about 300 genera.

Mr. Kent’s work, so far as the details are concerned, will prove invalu-
able to the student of the low forms described. It is not at all likely,
however, that his philosophical conclusions will be generally accepted
soon, or that they will stand the test.of time. Some of the principal
types of the animal kingdom are supposed to be genetically derivable
from special types of Infusorians ; forexample, the Annelids from the
Holotrichous (or Peritrichous) Ciliates, the Echinoderms, Polyzoans, and
Mollusks from the Peritrichous Ciliates, the Rotifers and Arthropods from
the Hypotrichous Ciliates; and the Celenterates from the Tentaculifers.
In other words, the complexities of the metazoic organism must have
been many times independently attained from unicellular organisms,
and the associations or colonies of cells known as metazoie animals must
be supposed to repeat, as a whole, unessential features of protozoic ani-
maleules. Doubtless many biologists will object to such conclusions.

Families of Flagellates.

The Flagellata have been extended by Mr. Kent to include not only
the Mastigameebide, the Euchitonide, and the Noctilucide, but also
the Sponges, and quite subordinate rank is given to the Noctilucide
(treated as a simple family of the Eustomata), although many natural-
ists regard the type as of class value and more differentiated than most
of the Flagellates are from each other. The Flagellates thus reconsti-
tuted are distributed among seven orders and thirty-nine families, not
counting the Sponges, which are omitted from the work. The clagsifi-
cation is as follows:

Order 1. Tryanosomata, with 1 family—the Trypanosomatide.

Order 2. Rhizoflagellata, with 1 family, Mastigamecebide.

Order 3. Radioflagellata, with 2 families: (1.) Actinomonadide and
(2.) Euchitonide.

Order 4, Pantostomata, with 18 families: (1.) Monadidw; (2.) Pleu-
romonadide ; (3.) Cercomonadide ; (4.) Codoncecide; (5.) Dendrom-
onadide; (6.) Bikeecide; (7.) Amphimonadide; (8.) Spongomonadide ;
572 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882.

(9.) Heteromitide ; (10.) Trepomonadide; (11.) Polytomide; (12.) Pseudo-
sporide ; (13.) Spumellide; (14.) Trimastigide ; (15.) Tetramitide; (16.)
Hexamitid ; (17.) Lophomonadide ; and (18.) Catallactide.

Order 5. Choanoflagellata, or Discostomata, with 2 sections :

Section I. Gymnozoida, with 3 families: (1.) Codonosigide ; (2.) Sal-
pingeecide; and (5.) Phalansteriide.

Section II. Sarcocrypta (the Sponges not described).

Order 6. Eustomata, with 9 families: (1.) Paramonadide; (2.) Asta-
siade; (3.) Euglenide; (4.) Noctilucidse ; (5.) Chrysomonadide; (6.)
Zygoselmide ; (7.) Chilomonadide; (8.) Anisonemidz; and (9.) Sphe-
nomonadide.

Order 7. Cilioflagellata, with 5 families: (1.) Peridiniide ; (2.) Heter-
omastigide; (3.) Mallomonadide; (4.) Stephanomonadide; and (5.)
Trichonemide.

The Families of Ciliates.

Mr. Kent's “class” of “Ciliata” is identical with that called Infusoria
(after the exclusion of the Suctoria) by some recent authors, e. g. Pro-
fessor Claus, and his orders bear names that have been current for some
time. Perhaps the most noteworthy characteristic is the number of
families which is greater than is given in any other text-book. Thirty-
four are admitted, viz:

Order 1. Holotricha, with 13 families: (1.) Parameecide ; (2.) Proro-
dontidx; (3.) Trachelophyllide ; (4.) Colepid ; (5.) Euchelyide ; (6.)
Trachelocercidze ; (7.) Tracheliide ; (8.) Ichthyophthiriide ; (9.) Oph-
ryoglenide ; (10.) Pleuronemide ; (11.) Lembide ; (12.) Trichonymphi-
dz; and (13.) Opalinide.

Order 2. Heterotricha, with 7 families: (1.) Bursariide; (2.) Spiros-
tomide ; (3.) Stentoride; (4.) Tintinnode ; (5.) Trichodinopside ; (6.)
Codonellide ; and (7.) Calceolide.

Order 3. Peritricha, with 8 families: (1.) Torquatellide ; (2.) Dicty-
ocystida; (3.) Actinobolide; (4.) Halteriide; (5.) Gyrocoride; (6.)
Urceolariide; (7.) Ophryoscolecide ; and (8.) Vorticellide.

Order 4. Hypotricha, with 6 families: (1.) Litonotide; (2.) Chlamy-
dodontide ; (3.) Dysteriide ; (4.) Peritromide; (5.) Oxytrichide; and
(6.) Euplotide.

The families of Tentaculifers.

A special class is admitted for the reception of the suctorial Infuso-
rians—the * Tentaculifera”—and its representatives, included by Claus
and other zoologists in one family, are distributed by Mr. Kentinto two
orders and six families, viz:

Order 1. Suctoria, with 4 families: (1.) Rhynchetide; (2.) Acinetidz;
(3.) Dendrocometide ; and (4.) Dendrosomide.

Order 2. Actinaria, with 2 families: (1.) Ephelotidz ; and (2.) Ophry-
odendride.
ZOOLOGY. nis

Ill. PORIFERS.

Bowerbank (J. S.) A Monograph of the British Spongiade. Edit+d with additions
by A.M.Norman. Vol.4. (Supplementary.) London, Ray Society, 1882. (8 vo,
xvii, 250 pp., 17 pl.)

Marshall (W.) Die Ontogonie von Reniera filigrana O. Schm. Zeitschr. f. wiss Zool., 37
Bd., pp. 221-246, pl., 13-14.

Vosmaer (G. C.J.) Porifera. Neu bearbeitet. 1. Lief. Leipzig, C. F. ee 1882.
(Bronn’s Klassen und Ordnungen Theirreichs, 2. Band. 8vo.)

Weltner (Wilhelm). Beitriige zur Kenntniss der Spongien. Mit 3 Lichldrucktaf.
Inaug.-Diss. Freiburg. i, Br., 1882. (8vo, 62 pp.)

Relations of the Sponges.

Inasmuch as Mr. Kent has raised again the question as to the affini-
ties of the Sponges, the conclusions reached by Professor Marshall from a
study of the development of Reniera filigrans, one of the Fibrous Sponges
representing a family allied to the commercial species, may be aptly
noticed here. After traversing the views of previous investigators,
Marshall contends that the Sponges are less differentiated from the
Celenterates than some of those even who admit the value of its met-
azoic characteristics—e. g. Balfour—have been disposed to concede.
The Fibrous Sponges, by their developmental history, are shown to be
less specialized than the calcareous types. The objection that the ab-
sence of tentacles and nettle-cells is of prime importance is met by the
assertion that such are also wanting in Beroe, and that, at any rate, it
is no more than might be a prior? looked for, on account of the habits
and characteristics of nutrition of the forms. In fine, the Sponges are
asserted to be derivatives in common with the typical Celentrates from a
Protactinian stock, and both are Metazoans with gastric cavities and
mesenterial pouches and with centrifugal canals originating from the
former, which may open to the exterior by pores and thereby take in
-hutriment; they are invested by endodermal cells which may become
converted into flagellate cells. (J. R. M.S., (2,) v. 11, p. 798.)

IV. CH&LENTERATES,
GENERAL.

Hamann (Otto). Studien tiber Celenteraten. Mit2Taf. Jena. Zeitschr. f. Naturwise,
xy Bd., pp. 545-557.
HYDROIDS.

Hamann (Otto). Der Organismus der Hydroidpolypen. Mit 6Taf. Jena. Zeitschr.
f. Naturwiss., v. XV, pp. 473-544,

Haeckel (Ernst). Report on the Deep Sea Medusw dredged by H. M. S. Challenger.
With 32 pl. Report Scientif. Results, Challenger, Zool., v. IV, cv, 154 pp.

Mereschkonsky (C. de). Structure et developpment des Nematophores Chez les Hy-
droides. Avec2pl. Arch. Zool. Experim., t. X, pp. 583-610.

Primordial Meduse.

The earliest indications of Meduse hitherto known have been of
triassic age and found in the lithographie slate of Solenhofen. The con-
sistency of these organisms naturally militates against their preserva-
574 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882.

tion or even any indications of their existence, save in exceptional
circumstances. But Mr. Nathorst, of Sweden, has lately been pur-
suing certain investigations which may throw some light on their past
history, and at the same time serve to explain the nature of certain
problematical bodies discovered in the palsozoic rocks of Secandi-
navia. While visiting Oeresund numerous Medusz of the genus Auw-
relia were cast ashore with the mouth downwards. ‘ When he took up
one he observed that it had sunk in the soft ground by its own weight,
and that its gastrovascular system had made a star-like impression,”
which reminded him of a Cambrian fossil, described as Spatangopsis.
“He then followed the matter up further, partly by making impressions
of various Meduse and partly by filling up their gastrovascular system
with plaster, and so obtained a cast. The preparations thus made cor-
responded so exactly in every detail with the problematical bodies from
the Cambrian” that no doubt existed as to their analogy. ‘The stars
and pyramids are casts of the gastrovascular systems of the Medusa,
the rays of the stars and the angles of the pyramids correspond with
the arms, and the crescent-shaped projections occasionally occurring
between the angles are casts of the genital cavities. The impressions
on the slabs of rocks are produced by Meduse thrown on the shore, and
which, sinking more or less into the soft ground by their own weight,
make a more or less complete impression of the body-cavity. The
bodies lying free in the clay were probably produced by Medusz which
lay on their backs, their gastrovascular system becoming filled up with
the sand ormud. There are some Meduse which do not swim, but sink
into the mud on their backs, and lie still watching for their prey.” The
“rays” in the fossils vary from four to five. It is urged, however, that
even “in the present day individuals are found with five, six, or nine
rays,” but itis admitted that “certainly this deviation from the normal
number appears more frequently in the Cambrian Meduse than in the
existing species.” In further evidence of the medusoid nature of the
Cambrian fossils, it is stated, among other things, that “the impression
of the disk and traces of the tentacles are distinctly seen round a four-
rayed star on a rock from Lugnas.” In fine, the testimony seems to
Mr. Nathorst to justify the identification of the fossils in question as
true Meduse, and three “species” are considered to be recognizable
among those found in the deposits at Lugnas. Inasmuch as the names
Spatangopsis and Astylospongta, which had been proposed for the Cam-
brian organisms, were given under a misapprehension as to their rela-
tionships and convey misleading ideas, the new Medusites has been pro-
posed, and the three species have been designated as JM. radiatus (ex
Linnarson), M. Lindstrom (ex Linnarson), and M. favosus (n. sp.). Ifthe
alleged facts and conclusions are confirmed, the results of the investi-
gation recorded are of unusual interest, as it establishes the contempo-
raneity of Medusz with the oldest animals of which we have distinct
evidence. (J. R. M.S., (2 IL. 326-327), from Handl. K. Svenska Veten-
skab Akad., xix.
ZOOLOGY. 575

V. ECHINODERMS.
GENERAL.
Ludwig (H.) Morphologische Studien an Echinodermen. 11 Bd. 2. Hft. Mit.

SPECIAL ORDERS.
Crinoids.

Bell (F. Jeffrey). An attemptto apply a method of formulation to the species of the
Comatulidx; with the description of a new species. With1 pl. Proc. Zool. Soe.
London, 1882. Pp. 530-586. Abstr. in Journ. R. Microsc. Soc., (2,) vol. 11, p. 791.

Carpenter (Phillip). On the Relations of Hyrocrinus, Borocrinus, and Hybocystites.
With1i pl. Quart. Journ. Geol. Soc., London, vol. XXXVII, p. 298-312.

Wachsmuth (Ch.) and F. Springer. Revision of the Palewocrinoidea. Part III. Proc.
Acad. Nat. Sci., Phila., 1882.

Echinoids.

Kohler (R.) Sur quelques essais d’hybridation entre diverses especes d’Echinoiddes.
Compt. rend. Acad.Sci., Paris, t. 94, pp. 1203-1205.

Ophiuroids.

Verrill (A. E.) Restoration of the Disk in Ophiurans. Amer. Journ. Sci., (3,) Vv. XXII,
p. 408: Ann. § Mag. Nal. Hist. (5,) v. 1X, pp. 476-477,

Aslerioids.

Ludwig (Hub.) Entwicklungsgeschichte der Asterina gibbosa. Forb. Mit8 Taf.
Zeitschr. f. wiss. Zool., 37 Bd., pp. 1-98.

Perrier (Edmond.) Sur une Astérie des grandes profondeurs de Atlantique, pourvue
@un pédoncule dorsal [Caulaster pedunculatus, n.] Compt. rend. Acad. Sci. Paris,

T. 95, pp. 13879-1381.
é Holothurioids.

Jourdan (Et.) Sur les organes sexuels males et les organes de Cuvier des Holothu-
ries. Compt. rend. Acad. Sci. Paris, t. 95, pp. 252-254.

Hybrization among Echinoids.

Mr. R. Kohler has made “some experiments in hybridization between
different species of Echinoidea,” and found that cross fecundations “are
possible between different species of Echinoidea, and that between very
wide limits,” as, for example, between a Spatangus and a Psammechinus,
which he thought (without sufficient justification) were at least as differ-
ent as two mammals of allied orders. ‘And if the plutei obtained by
crossing between regular Echinoids do not appear to differ much from
the legitimate plutei of the type functioning as female in the experi-
ments, there are certainly well marked differences between a legitimate
pluteus of Spatangus and a hybrid pluteus of Spatangus and Psamme-
chinus.” He ealls special attention to the fact that “ because the ova
of a species when fecundated by the spermatozoids of another species ar-
rived at the state of pluteus, it does not follow that the converse is true.
Thus, the ovules of Spatangus are perfectly fecundated by the sperma-
tozoids of Psammechinus, but the ovules of the latter, subjected to the
influence of the semen of the Spatangus, remain for the most part in-
tact, while the rest scarcely reach the blastula stage.”
576 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882.

VI. WORMS.

ORTHONECTIDS.

Julin (Charles), Contribution 4 l’histoire des Mésozoaires. Recherches sur lorgan-
isation et le développement embryonnaire des Orthonectides. Avec3pl. Arch. de
Biolog., t. 111, pp. 1-54.

DICYEMIDS.

Van Beneden (Edouard). Contribution a V’histoire des Dicyemides. Avec 2 pl. Arch,
de Biolog., t. 3, pp. 195-228.

Whitman (C. O.). A contribution to the embryology, life-history, and classification
of the Dicyemids. With5 plates. Mittheil, Zoolog. Station zu Neapel, 1v bd, pp.
1-89.

Characteristics of the Dicyemids.

The peculiar parasites known as Dicyemids, found in the renal organs
of the Dibranchiate Cephalopods, have been the subject of an elaborate
monograph by Dr. O. C. Whitman, and much light has been thrown on
their true nature.

The Dicyemids are of special interest, inasmuch as Professor Van Bene-
den regarded them as the constituents of a primary group of animals in-
termediate between the Protozdans and Metazoans (all animals above
Protozoans), distinguished as many-celled animals, developing only two
germ-layers, and destitute of a mesoderm. Dr. Whitman’s studies, how-
ever, have led him to consider that the “‘ Dicyemids may be said to have
a transient triploblastic stage, represented by an ectodermal layer, an
axial endodermie cell, and two intermediate mesodermic cells, derived
from the two poles of the endodermic cell.”

Prof. Edouard Van Beneden was led to believe that there was an
extraordinary parallelism as to mutual relations between the Dicyemids
and their hosts, and that they were differentiated in ratio to the ceph-
alopods—genus for genus and species for species; thus, two species of
Dicyema accompanied two species of Octopus, two of Dicyemella two of
Eledone, two of Dicyemina two of Sepia, and one of Dicyemopsis one of
Sepiola. Dr. Whitman, on the contrary, failed to confirm the generic sub-
divisions of Van Beneden and discovered that the species of Dicyemids
were not limited respectively to single species of cephalopods, or the
sole parasites of their kind on their respective hosts. The American
naturalist was led to differentiate all the known Dicyemids into two
genera; Dicyema with one eight-celled “head” or calotte, including
seven species, and Dicyemennea, with a nine-celled calotte, formed for
three other species. In two species of Decaceres of different families
were found two species of Dicyemids of the two genera (but different
sets of species), and the same species of Dicyemids were found in two
or three species of cuttle fishes.

PLATYHELMINTHES,

Francotte (P.). Sur Vappareil excréteur des Turbellairés Rhabdocoeles et Dendro-
coeles. Avecl pl. Bull. Acad. Sc., Belg. (3), t. U1, pp. 88-98.
ZOOLOGY. 577
Adaptation to environment of Trematods.

Professor Ercolani has published a useful summary of facts in the
development of Trematods related to adaptation for environment. (1)
The succession of phases of development is not always the same in all
Trematods, some leaving the eggs as ciliated embryos requiring water,
and others as non-ciliated ones, developing in terrestrial gastropods ; (2)
the different phases of development are not the same for all encysta-
tion, é. g., being sometimes omitted; (3) a special form of scissiparous
generation may occur e. g., in the racemose sporocysts where certain
living parts (as in Polyzoans and Hydroids) are connected by atrophied
stolons; (4) the direct conversion of the tail of a cercaria into a nurse
sometimes occurs; (5) encystation may not only be normal, but also
accidental or abnormal.

It is far from true that there is a determinate relation between Trem-
atods and Mollusks, and that the latter have only one species each;
Bythinia tentaculata, e.g., has aS many as twelve different species of
cercariz. (J. R. M.S., (2) v. 3, p. 784, from Arch. Ital. Biol., v. 1, p.
439-453.)

NEMATELMINTHS.

Drasche (Rich. von). Revision der in der Nematoden-Sammlung des k. k. zool. Hof-
Cabinets befindlichen Original Exemplare Diesing’s und Molins. Mit. 4 Taf.
Verhandl. k. k. zool. bot. Ges. Wien, 1882, pp. 117-138.

Fourment (L.). Sur la vitalité des Trichines enkystées dans les viandes salées.
Compt. rend. Ac. Se. Paris, t. 94, p. 1211-1213.

Mégnin (P.). Sur de petits Helminthes agames ekystés qui peuvent étre confondus
et quil’ ont été avec la Trichina Spiralis. Avec 3 pl. Bull. Soc. zool. France, 6.
Ann, p. 189-192.

Mégnin (P.). Sur Vorganisation de la bouche des Dochmius ou Ankylostomes, & pro-
pos de parasites de ces deux genres trouvés chez le chien. Compt. rend. Acad.
Sc. Paris, t. 94, p. 663-666.

Orley (L.). Report on the Nematodes in the possession of the British Museum, with
a review of the classification of the order. With1 pl. Ann. & Mag. of Nat. Hist.,
(5,) v. 9, p. 301-318.

Orley (L.). Monographie der Me eociiinoent Mit. 7 Taf. Termész Fiizetek, v. 4,
p. 154-177 (Deutsches Auszug d. ungar. geschriebenen Arbeit., p. 16-150).

Schulthess (Wilhelm). Beitrige zur Anatomie von Ankylostoma duodenale (Dubini)=
Dochmius duodenalis (Leuckart). Mit2 Taf. Zeitschr. f. wiss. Zool., 37 Bd., p.
163-229.

The Nematoid Worms.

Dr. L. Orley has recently studied the Nematoids in the British Museum
and has come to the conclusion that there are three *‘suborders” although
‘“‘there are perhaps few orders in which so continuous a series of forms
exists as in the Nematodes.” His views as to the question of relationship
between parisitism and non-parisitism and classification may be gleaned
from his daignosis of the several groups.

1. The Nematentozoa are “ thread worms completing their early

stage in the free condition, their maturity as parasites in the bodies of
H. Mis. 26——37
578 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882.

the higher or the lower animals; the species being propagated by the
production of immense numbers of ova, whose development is more or
less complicated.” This group includes most of the nematoids and is
exemplified by the Ascarides, Filarie, etc. The groups proposed by
Schneider—Polymyarii, Meromyarii, and Holomyarii—are adopted for
its constituent genera.

2. The Rhabditiformes are “small, chiefly microscopic thread-worms,
which live generally free, but in exceptional cases as parasites, and have
without exception the power of developing to the sexually mature state
in organic substances in a state of decomposition, or in earth saturated
with such substances, such condition being necessary to the process.”
Only two species were represented in the British Museum.

3. The Anguillulide are ‘small microscopic thread-worms leading a
free existence in mould or in water throughout all their stages, devel-
oping without a complete metamorphosis.” The common Vinegar eel
is the type.

ANNELIDS.
1. GENERAL.

Kleinenberg (N.). De l’ origine dusystéme nerveux central des Annélides. Arch. Ital.
Biol., t. 1, p. 63-77.

Verrill (A. E.). New England Annelida. PartI. Historical Sketch, with annotated
lists of the species hitherto recorded. Trans. Conn. Acad. Arts. & Sc., v. 4, p.
285-324, 324 a—e., pl. 3-12.

2. SPECIALORDERS.

Polycheta.

Giard (Alfred). Sur un type synthetique d’Annéllide (Anoplonereis Hermanni) com-
mepsal des Balanoglossus. Compt. rendus Acad. Se. Paris, t. 95, p. 389-391.
Haswell (Will. A.). On the Structure and Functions of the Elytraof the Aphrodi-

tacean Annelids. Ann. & Mag., Nat. Hist., (5,) v. 10, p. 238-242.

Kennel (J.). Ueber Ctenodrilus pardalis Clap. Ein Beitrag zur Kenntnis der Anato-
mie und Knospung der Anneliden. Mit 1 Taf. Arb. Zool.-zoot. Instit. Wiirz-
burg. Bd. 5, p. 273-429.

Wilson (Edmund B.). Observations on the Early Developmental Stages of some
Polychetous Annelides. With 4 pl. Stud. Biolog. Laborat. Johns Hopkins Uni-
vers., V. 2, p. 271-300.

Powell (Thomas). Remarks on the Structure and Habits of the Coral-reef Annelid
Palolo viridis. Journ. Linn. Soc. London, Zool., v. 16, p. 393-396.

A periodical worm.

One of those forms whose movements coincide with the phases of the
moon once every year at least, appears to be established as the Palolo
or Mbalolo of certain of the coral archipelagoes of the Pacific—Samoa,
Viti, and the Gilbert group. The Palolo is an annelid related to the
Nereids, and its binominal designation is Palolo viridis. It was first
scientifically described by Dr. J. D. Macdonald in 1857 (Trans. Linn.
Soc., London, V. 22, pp. 237-239, pl. 41). The Fijian name has ref-

— See ee
ZOOLOGY. 579

erence to the coincidence of its movements with the moon, and when
the worm makes its appearance it does so in such vast numbers that it
is collected by the natives as a dainty article of food, and is so much
prized that formal presents of it are often sent considerable distances,
from certain chiefs, to others whose small dominions do not happen
to be visited by the Mbalolo.” The worms oniy make their appearance
to spawn, and “the time of their appearance is the day of the last
quartering of the moon in October, wnless that fall at the beginning of
the month, in which case there will intervene another lunar month.”
So says the Rev. T. Powell, and he adds that “the observations of
many years, made by many old European inhabitants as well as by the
natives, show that, if from the time of spawning in October, we reckon
354 or 355 days, that will bring us to another spawning, unless such
reckoning terminate at the end of September or the beginning of Oc-
tober, say from the 1st to the 4th day. In that case the reckoning
must extend to 333 or 384 days, when the Palolo will appear. Thus,
instead of an interval of only twelve lunar months, one of thirteen will
occur. Whether the moon, directly, has anything to do with the move-
ments of the Palolo, may be still an open question, but that there is a
coincidence between the two, seems to be beyond doubt. But although
the great host of Palolo makes its appearance as indicated, according
to Mr. Powell, ‘“‘there is a second appearance of Palolo each year,
occurring a month after the first, consisting of such worms, probably,
as were not sufficiently mature to spawn in October, or, it may be, of
an other species.”

VII. ARTHROPODS.
MEROSTOMES.

Trilobites.

Edwards (H. Milne). Compte rendu des nouvelles recherches de M. Walcott sur la
structure des Trilobites, suivi de quelques considerations sur l’interpretation
des faits aussi constates. Avec 3pl. Ann. Sc. Nat., (6,) Zool., t. 12, Art. No. 3.
(33'p.):

Schmidt (Fr.). Revision der ostbaltischen silurischen Trilobiten nebst geognostischer
Uebersicht des ostbaltischen Silurgebiets. Abth.l]. Phacopiden, Cheiruriden und
Encrinuriden. Mit. 16. Taf. Mem. Acad. St. Petersburg., 7. Ser., No.1. (23
p.— M. 15.)

Xiphosura.

Moseley (H. N.). The Development of Limulus.. Ann. & Mag. of Nat. Hist. (5), v. 9,
p. 412.

Moseley (H. N.). Limulus. Nature, v. 25, p. 582.

Packard (A. S., jr.). Is Limulus an Arachnid? Amer. Naturalist, v. 16, p. 237-292;
Ann. & Mag. of Nat. Hist. (5), v. 9, p. 369-374.

Is Limulus an Arachnid?

An abstract of Prof. Ray Lankester’s contention that ‘‘ Limulus [is] an
Arachnid” has been reviewed by Professor Packard. It is recalled that
580 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882.

Limulus differs from Arachnids “in having trachee, no spiracles, and
no Malphigian tubes,” and “also in having compound eyes, no functional
mandibles or maxille,” &c. Professor Packard especially objects to the
comparison of the nervous system of Limulus with that of the Scorpion;
in reference to Professor Lankester’s claim that ‘ between the sixth ab-
dominal segment and the spire there are six segments,” he ventures to
suggest that four of these segments are purely imaginary; in opposition
to Professor Lankester ‘‘ would continue to regard the anal spine as the
telson”; repudiates Professor Lankester’s interpretation of the nature of
the compound eyes, the respiratory amelle, the four last pair of biramous
respiratory feet, and the “ parabranchial stigmata” of Limulus, and cites
the alleged discovery of a naupliiform larva of the Japanese Limulus by
Willemoes-Suhm.

Professor Mosely, in answer to Professor Packnard, renews expression
of faith in the views of Professor Lankester as to the relationship of
Limulus to the Arachnids, and shows that Willemoes-Suhm was mis-
taken in referring this naupliiform larva to Limulus.

CRUSTACEANS.

FAUNAS.
North America.

Smith (Sidney I.). Occasional occurrences of tropical and subtropical species of De-
capod Crustacea on the coast of New England. Trans. Conn. Acad. Arts and
Sci., v. 4, p. 204-267.

Reports on the results of dredging by the United States Coast Survey steamer

Blake. Report on the Crustacea. Part I. Decapoda. Bull. Mus. Comp. Zool.,

v. 10, p. 1-108, 16 pl.

Europe.

Joliet (Lucien). Observations sur quelques Crustdaces de la Mediterranée. Archiv.
Zool. Expériment., t. 10, p. 101-120 (viz: 1. Sur une troisiéme espéce du g. La-
mippe, L. Duthiersii, parasite du Paraleyonium elegans M. Edw.; 2. Sur l’usage
des pieds dorsaux chez les Crustacés Notopodes; 3. Un exemple de Mimétisme,
Pontonia diazona nu. sp.)

Sars (G. O.). Oversigt of Norges Crustaceer med forelbige Bemaerkninger over de
nye eller mindre bekjendte Arter. I. (Podophthalmata, Cumacea, Isopoda, Amphi-
poda.) Med. 6autograph Pl. (Christian. Vidensk. Selsk-Forhandl. 1882, No. 18.)
(124 p.) Note.—576 sp. are enumerated for the Fauna, of which 107 are new.

Australia.

Haswell (Will. A.). Catalogue of the Australian stalk and sessile-eyed Crustacea.
Printed by order of the trustees [of the Australian Museum Sydney]. Sydney,
1882. (8v, xxiv, 324 p., Addenda, Explan. of pl., 4 pl.)

SPECIAL GROUPS.
Branchipods.

Herrick (C. L.). A new genus and species of the Crustacean family Lyncodaphnida.
Amer. Naturalist, v. 16, p. 1006-1007, pl. 16.

|

ZOOLOGY. 581

Pyenogonids.

Hoek (P. P. C.). Nouvelles etudes sur les Pyenogonides. Avec.8pl. Arch. Zool. Ex-
périment. t. 9, p. 445-542,

. Pyenogonides du Challenger. Traduction du Resume general de l’auteur.

Arch. Zool. Experiment. t. 9, note, p. xlix-lii.

Copepods.

Biesbrecht (W.). Beitrage zur Kenntnis einiger Notodelphiden. Mit.3Taf. Mittheil.
Zool. Station Neapel, 3 Bd., p. 293-372.

Edriophthalma.

Kossmann (R.). The Entoniscidae. With1pl. Ann. and Mag. Nat. Hist. (5), v. 10, p.
81-99.

Mocquard (C.). Sur les ampoules pyloiqnes des Crustaces isopodes. Compt. rend.
Ac. Se. Paris, t. 94, p. 1208-1211.

Schiodte (J.), et Fr. Meinert. Symbolae ad Monographiam Cymothoarum, Crustaceo-
rum Ispodum Familiae. II. Anilocridae. Cum 10 tab. Naturhistor. Tidsskr.
(3,) 13. Bd. p. 1-166.

Wals (Rud.). Ueber die Familie der Bopyriden mit besonderer Berucksichtigung der
Fauna der Adria. Mit. Taf. Wien., Alfr. Holder, 1882. (Arbeit. Zool. Inst.
Wien., t. 4, Hft. 2, (p. 125-200.)

Decapods.

Vitzou (Alexandre N.). Recherches sur la structure et la formation des teguments
chez les Crustacés Décapodes. Avec 6 pl. Archiv. Zool. Expériment., t. 10, p.
451-576.

Guppy (H. B.). Note on the cocoanut-eating habit of the Birgus in the Solomon
Group.—Proe. Linn. Soc. N. 8. Wales, v. 7, p. 661-665.

Tropical Crustaceans in New England waters.

Crustaceans of various kinds are apt to be carried far from their cus-
tomary habitats, especially in their embryonic stages, by currents or
other causes, and Prof. Sidney I. Smith has recorded a number of such
visitants to the coast of New England. Ten species of Decapods have
been thus signalized, the most noteworthy of which are the common
West Indian and Southern Ocypode quadrata or arenaria, Grapsus
pictus, Pachygrapsus transversus, and Calappa marmorata. The Grapsus
(1 specimen) and Pachygrapsus (4 specimens) were obtained in the adult
condition from the bottoms of whalers in Provincetown Harbor, while
the Ocyopode and Calappa were found in considerable numbers, in the
emryonic stage, at Wood’s Holl, Massachusetts.

A parasitic Cirriped.

To the numerous and remarkable parasites of the animal kingdom a
strange one has recently been added by Professor Tozzetti, of Florence.
A small pedunculated cirriped or barnacle (Ornitholepas australis) has
been discovered living upon the ends of the abdominal feathers of a
puffin-—the Priofinus cinereus. The anomaly arises from the fact that
the cirripeds are branchiferous, and especially fitted for submarine life,
while the puffin, although a waterfowl, is “one of the most aerial of
582 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882.

birds.” Nevertheless, all of the puffins taken in the South Atlantic and
Indian Oceans—nearly a hundred—were found to be infested with the
cirripeds.

Cocoanut-eating Crabs.

Tt has long been known that a large terrestrial relative of the hermit-
crabs, known as Birgus latro, inhabiting the Philippine Islands, feeds -
on cocoanuts, and Darwin, in his Voyage of a Naturalist (ed. 1860, p.
468), has recorded the observations on its attack on the husk of the
nut made by an English resident of Keeling Island. Mr. Guppy has
lately found on an uninhabited islet of the Solomon Group a species
supposed to be the Birgus latro, and recorded his observations. He
found an individual about 15 inches long, which had apparently “not
only husked the shell, but also broken the hole at the eye-hole end of
the nut” itself: in confinement it did not actually accomplish such a
feat. ‘On one occasion the Birgus was surprised with the nut between
its large claws; but notwithstanding that no other food was otfered to
it for.a day and a half, it did not attempt to strip off the bark; so the
operation was done for it, and a small hole was knocked in the ies of the
shell.” The Birgus was kept alive by Mr. Guppy for three weeks, and
‘its appetite for cocoanuts continued unimpaired to the last day of its
life.” It consumed about two nuts in three days, or at the rate of about
250a year. ‘Other foods, such as bananas, were offered to it, but were
left untouched.”

It may be here noted that the stomachal armature of Birgus has been
recently described by Mr. Mocquard in the Annales des Sciences Na-
turelles.

ARACHNIDS.

General.

Bertkau (Ph.) Ueber das Cribellum und Calamistrum. Ein Beitrag zur Histiologie,
Biologie und Systematik der Spinnen. Mit Abild. Arch. f. Naturgesch., 48.
Jahrg., pp. 316-362.

MacLeod (Jul.) Recherches sur la structure et la signification de ’appareil respiratoire
des Arachnides. Avec fig. Bull. Acad. Sc. de Belgique, (3,) t.3; pp. 779-792.

FAUNAS.

Europe.

Cambridge (O. P.). Notes on British Spiders, with descriptions of three new species
and characters of a new genus. Ann. Mag. Nat. Hist., (5), v. 9, pp. 1-13, pl. 1,
1882.

Australia.

Koch (L.). Die Arachniden Australiens noch der Natur beschrieben und abgebildet.
Fortgesetzt von Graf E. Keyserling. 30 Lief. Niirnberg, Bauer & Raspe, 1882.
(49°. M. 9.).

SPECIAL GROUPS.

Acarians.

Kramer (P.) Ueber Gamasiden. Mit 2 Taf. Archiv f. Naturgesch., 48. Jahrg, pp.
374- 134.

ZOOLOGY. 583

Araneians.

Emerton (J. H.). New England Spiders of the famity Theridide. Trans. Cunn. Acad.
Arts & Sc., v. 6, pp. (86) with 24 pl.

Campbell (F. Maule). On a probable case of Parthenogenesis in the House-Spider
(Tegenaria Guyonii). Journ. Linn. Soc. London, Zool., v. 16, pp. 536-539,

Spiders of Great Britain.

The Rev. O. P. Cambridge completed, in 1881, the publication of a
monograph on the “ Spiders of Dorset” (in the Proceedings of the Dorset
Natural History and Antiquarian Field Club), and in a subsequent
article has added several other species, and given the statistics of the
Arachnid fauna of Great Britain. It appears therefrom that ‘“ the num-
ber of spiders recorded in Great Britain and Ireland is 520; but there is
little doubt that this number might be considerably increased by diligent
search in many as yet untried localities, especially when we consider
that a small area of Dorsetshire alone has produced nearly 400 species.”

New England Theridiid Spiders.

An illustrated monograph of the spiders of the family of Theridiids
inhabiting New England has been published by Mr. J. H. Emerton, -
almost the only student of the spiders in the United States. As might,
therefore, be expected from a field so little cultivated, a very large pro-
portion of the species was previously undescribed. One hundred and
thirty-four species of the family have been described and illustrated
by Mr. Emerton, and of these no less than 85 were ‘ new.”—(Verrill in
A. Jr. 8., (1,) v. 24, p. 477.)

INSECTS.

GENERAL.
Systematic.

Austin (E. P.). A Manual of Entomology. Directions for collecting, preparing, and
mounting insects of all orders. Boston. (12mo.)

Brehm (A. E.). Merveilles de la Nature. Les Insectes. Edit. frang. par J. Kunckel
@Hereules. 2-6. sér. Livr. 11460. Paris, J. B. Bailliére et fils, 1882.

Camerano (Lor.) Anatomia degli Insetti. Con. 57, figure . . . e nove tay. dopp. in
fotolit. Torino, Loescher, 1882. (8vo. viii, 251 pp.)

Hocejo y Rosillo (J.) Manual de Entomologia. Tom. 1. Madrid, 1882. (8vo., 248 pp.)

Karsch (A.). Die Insektenwelt. Ein Taschenbuch zu entomologischen Excursionen
fiir Lehrer und Lernende. 2. Aufl. Leipzig, O. Lenz, 1882. (8vo.)

Periodicals.

Annales de la Société Entomologique de France. 5sér., t. 12, Paris, 1882. (8vo.)

Bullettino della Societ’ Entomologica Italiana. Anno xiv. Firenze, 1882. (8vo.)

Entomologiske Tidskrift. Utgifv. af Jac. Spangberg. 1882. Stockholm, 1882. (8vo.)

Mittheilungen der Schweizerischen Entomologischen Gesellschaft. Bulletin de la
Société Entomologique Suisse. v.7. Schaffhausen, 1882. (8vo.)

Papilio. Organ of the New York Entomological Club. v.2. New York, 1882. (8vo.)

Psyche. Organ of the Cambridge Entomological Club. v. 4. Cambridge, Mass.,
1882. (8vo.)
584 SCIENTIFIC "RECORD FOR 1882.

Société Entomologique de Belgique. Comptes-rendus des séances. 3.sér. Bruxelles
1882. (8vo.)
Stettiner Entomologische Zeitung. 43. Jahrg. Stettin, Grobmann, 1882. (8vo.)
Zeitschrift fiir Entomologie. Herausgegeben vom Verein fiir schlesische Insecten-
kunde zu Breslau. Neue Folge. Breshau, Maruschke & Berendt in Comm., 1882.
(8vo.)
Physiology.

Barrett(CharlesG.). The Influence of Meteorological Conditions cz Insect Life. En-
tomolog. Monthly Mag., v. 19, p. 1-8. ~

Bennett (Alfred). On the Constancy of Insects in their visits to Flowers. Report 51.
Meet. Brit. Assoc. Adv. Se., p. 667-668.

Graber (Vitus). Die chordotonalen Sinnesorgane u. das Gehor der Insecten. II. Phy-
siologischer Theil. Mit 4 Holzschn. Arch, f. mikroskop. Anat.,21. Bd., p. 65-
145.

Hagen (H. A.). On the Color and Pattern of Insects. Proc. Amer. Acad. Artsand Sc.
v. 17, p. 234-267.

Miiller (Fritz). On some difficult cases of mimicry. Nature, v. 26, p 436.

Miiller (Hermann). Weitere Beobachtungen tiber Befruchtung der Blumen durch In-
secten. III. Mit 2 Taf. Verhandl. naturhist. Ver preuss. Rheinl. u. Westf.
Bonn.

Plateau (Felix). Recherches expérimentales sur les mouvements respiratoires des
Insectes. Bull. Acad. Se. Belgique (3), t. 3, pp. 727-737.

Economical entomology.

Hagen (H.A.). Experiments with yeast in destroying Insects. Canad. Entomologist,
1882. pp. 38-39.

Packard (A.8.),jr., Insects injurious to Forest and Shade Trees. U.S. Entomol. Com-
miss. Bull. No. 7. Washington, 1881. (8vo., 275 pp., 100 fig.)

FAUNAS.

Europe.

Erichson (W.F.), H. Schaum, ete. Naturgeschichte der Insecten Deutschlands. 1.
Abtheil. Coleoptera. 3. Bd. 3 Abtheil., 1. Lief. Bearbeitet von Edm. Reitter.
Berlin, Nicolai, 1882. (8vo, vi, 298 pp. M. 4. 50.)

Fairmaire (Léon). Histoire naturelle de la France. 8. Partie; Coléoptéres. Avec 27
pl. et. fig. Paris, Deyrolle, 1882. (8vo., 381 pp.)

Wood (J. G.). Common British Insects, selected from the Typical Beetles, Moths,
and Butterflies of Great Britain. With 120 fig. by E. A. Smith, engraved by G.
Pearson. London, Longmans, 1882. (Svo., 292 pp. 3s. 6d.)

Fossil Insects.

Deichmiiller (J. V.). Fossile Insecten aus dem Diatomeenschieffer von Kutschlin bei
Bilin, B6hmen. Mit 1 Taf. Halle, Leipzig, W. Engelmann in Comm. 1881. (1882.
4°, aus: Nova Acta Acad. Leop. Carol., vol. 42, No. 6, 293-331 pp. M. 3.

SPECIAL GROUPS.
Myriapods.

(Protosyngnaths. )

Scudder (Samuel H.). The affinities of Palwocampa Meek and Worthen as evidence
of the wide diversity of type in the earliest known Myriapods. Amer. Journ. Sc.,
(3,) v. 24, pp. 151-170; Ann. and Mag. Nat. Hist., (5,) v. 10, pp. 286-295.

¥

ZOOLOGY. 585

(Archipolypods. )

Scudder (Samuel H.). Archipolypoda, a subordinal type of spined Myriapods from
the Carboniferous Formation. With4pl. Mem. Boston Soe. Nat. Hist., v. 3, pp.
143-182.

(Chilopods.)

Voges (Ernst). Das Respirationssystem der Scutigeriden. Zool. Anz., 5. Jhg., pp.
67-69.

Hexapods.

Apters.

Taschenburg (Otto). Die Mallophagen, mit besonderer Beriicksichtigung der von
Dr. Meyer gesammelten Arten sysematisch bearbeitet. Mit 7 Taf. Nova Acta
Acad. Ces. Leop. Carol., v. 44, No. 1.

Orthopters.

Berlese (Ant.). Osservazioni sulla anatomia descrittiva del Gryllus campesiris.
Con 4 tay. Atti Soc. Ven.-Trent. Padova, v. 7, pp. 200-299.¢

Brogniart (Charles). Observations sur la maniére dont les Mantes construisent leurs
oothéques ; sur la structure des oothéques; sur l’éclosion et la premiére mue des
larves. Ann. Soc. Entomol. France (6), t. 1, pp. 449-452.

Brunner von Wattenwyl (C.). Prodromus der europdischen Orthopteren. Mit 11
Taf. u.1l Karte. Leipzig, W. Engelmann, 1882 (8vo., xxxii, 466 pp. M. 18).

Phylloxera.

Congres international phylloxérique de Bordeaux. (Edité par Feret & Bordeaux et
Masson & Paris. Prix: 5 fr.) Compte rendu in Les Mondes (Moigno) (3) t. 1,
No. 9, pp. 304-305.

Du Mesnil (Bar. Eug.) Nouvel essai contre le phylloxera, lettre (17 fév. 1882). Les
Mondes (3), t. 1, pp. 302-303.

Girard (Maurice). Lephylloxera. 3. Edit. Avec gravuresetcarte. Paris, Hachette et
Co., 1882. (8vo., 120 pp.)

Marion (A. F.). Application du sulfure de carbone au traitement des vignes phyl-
loxérées. Rapport sur les travaux des années 1880 et 1881 et sur les résultats ob-
tenus en grande culture. Paris, 1882. (4to., 141 pp., 4 pl.)

Pseudoneuropters.

Hagen (H.A.). The tarsal and antennal characters of Psocide. Entomolog. Monthly
Mag., vol. 19, June, pp. 12-13.

—. Beitrige zur Monographie der Psociden. Stettin. Entomolog. Zeit., 1882
pp. 265-300.

Vayssiére (Alb.). Recherches sur l’organisation deslarvesdes ephémériens. Avec 11 pl.
Ann. Sci. Nat., Zool. (6), t. 138, Art. 1 (137 pp.)

Homopters.

Pascoe (Francis P.). Note on the classification of the Homoptera. Ann. & Mag. of
Nat. Hist. (5), v. 9, pp. 424-425.

Coleopters.

Allard (Ern.). Essai de classification des Biapsides de Vancien monde, 3.P. Ann. Soe.
Entomolog. France (6). t. 1, pp. 493-526.

Burgess (Edward). Structure of the mouth in the larva of Dytiscus. Proc. Boston
Soc. Nat. Hist., v. 21, pp. 223-228.
586 : SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882.

Borre (A. Preudh. de), Analyse et Résumé d’un Mémoire de G. H. Horn, on the genera
of Carabidie, ete. Soc. Entomolog. Belg. Compt. rend. (3), p. Lx, ]xxiii.

Dohrn (C. A.). Geo. Horn’s Carabide besprochen. Stettin. Entomolog. Zeit., 1882,
pp. 301-305.

Fairmaire (Léon). Essai sur les Coléoptéres des iles Viti (Fidgi). (Suite et Fin.)
Ann. Soe. Entomolog. France (6), t. 1, pp. 461-492.

Horn (G. H.). Onthe genera of Carabide, with special reference to the fauna of
Boreal America. Philadelphia, 1882. (S8vo., 106 pp., 8 pl.)

Horn (G. H.). Revision of the species of Polyphylla of the United States. With2pl.
(Philadelphia), 1882. 8vo. (18 pp.)

Horn (G. H.). Synopsis of the Silphide of the United States, with reference to the
genera of other countries. With3pl. (Philadelphia), 1882. 8vo. (104 pp.).
Jayne (Horace F.). Revision of the Dermestide of the United States. Proc. Am.

Phil. Soc., v. 20, pp. 343-377, pl. 14. :

Kraatz (G.). Revision der europiisch-syrischen Arten der Melonthiden-Gattung Hop-
lidia Hope. Deutsch. Entomolog. Zeitschr., 26. Jahrg., pp. 33-42.

Lidth de Jeude (Theod. Will. van). De Spijsverteringsorganen der Phythophage
Lamellicornienlarven. Medi pl. Proefschr. Utrecht, Kemink & Zoon, 1882.
(8vo., 52 pp.)

Redtenbacher (L.). Tables dichotomiques pour servir 4 la détermination des familles
et des genres de Coléoptéres d’Europe. Bruxelles, 1882. (8vo., 146 pp.)

Reitter (Edm.). Besprechung von Horn. Revision of the Nitidulidw of the U.S.
Deutsch. Entomolog. Zeitschr.,26 Jahrg., pp. 165-170.

Riley (C. V.). Further notes on the imported Cloverleaf Weevil (Phytonomus pune-
tatus). Amer. Naturalist, v. 16, pp. 248, 249.

Hymenopters.

Bassett (H. F.). Arrangement of N. A. Cynipide, by Dr. Mayr. Amer. Naturalist,
v. 16, p. 329.

Bridgman (John B.) and Edw. A. Fitch. Introductory Papers on Ichneumonidae,
No. II. Ichneumonide (contin.). Entomologist, v. 15, pp. 78-85.

Cameron (Peter). A Monograph of the British Rhytophagous Hymenoptera (Ten-
thredo, Sirex, and Cynips Linné). Vol. 1. London, Ray Society, 1882. (8vo., vii,
340 pp., 21 pl.)

Kirby (W. F.). List of Hymenoptera, with descriptions and figures of the typical
specimens in the British Museum. Vol. 1. Tenthredinidsw and Siricide. Lon-
don, 1882. (S8vo., xxviii, 450 pp., 38 8.)

Kriechbaumer (J.). Ichneumonidon Studien. Katler’s Entomolog. Nach., 1881, pp.
117-120; 133-137; 1882, pp. 122-129.

Lewis (D. M.). Sound-producing Ants. Nature, v. 25, p. 266.

Lubbock (Sir John). Ants, Bees, and Wasps; a Record of Observations on the Social
Hymenoptera. London, Kegan Paul & Co., 1882. (8vo., with colored plates.
International Scientific Series, vol. xl.)

Riley (C. V.) List of North American Cynipidse. Amer. Naturalist, vol. 16, p. 246.

Riley (C. V.) The Utilization of Ants in Horticulture. Nature, v. 26, p. 126.

Schmiedeknecht (H. L. Otto), Apidz europe per genera, species et varietates
dispositz atque descripte. Acced. tabule incis. Fase.1 et 2. Gumperda(Ber-
lin, Friedlander & Sohn), 1882. (8vo., pp. 1-122, 6 Taf. M. 14.)

Dipters.

Becher (Ed.). Zur Kenntnis der Mundtheile der Dipteren. Mit4 Taf. Denkschr. d.
Akad. d. Wiss. Wien., Math. nat. Cl., 45 Bd., pp. 123-162.
Dimmock (George). Anatomy of the Mouth-parts and of the suctorial apparatus of
Culec. With1pl. Psyche, v. 3, pp. 231-241.

ZOOLOGY. 587

Williston (S. W.). Contribution to a knowledge of North American Syrphide. Proce.
Am, Phil. Soe., v. 20, pp. 279-332.

Lepidopters.

Berg (F.R.). Schmetterlingsbuch. Ganzlich ungearbenitet und vermehrt von H. von
Heinmann, Neu durchgesehen und ergiinzt von Dr. Wilh.Stendel. 6 Aufl. 1-3.
Lief. Stuttgart, Jul. Hoffmann. 1882. (4to. each M. 1.50.)

Distant (W. L.). Rhopalocera Malayana; a Description of the Butterflies of the
Malay Peninsula. Part I. London, 1882. (4to., 28 pp., 4 pl.)

Grote (Augustus Radcliff). An Illustrated Essay on the Noctuids of North America,
with a colony of butterflies. London, Van Voorst, 1882. (8vo.)

Heylaerts (F. J. M.,) fils. Essai @une Monographie des Psychides de la Faune
Européenne, précédé de considérations générales sur la famille des Psychides. 1,
Partie. Ann. Soc. Entomolog. Belg., t. 35, pp. 29-73.

Kirby (W.F.). European Butterflies and Moths. With 61 colored plates, based upon
Berge’s Schmetterlingsbuch. London, Cassell, 1882. (4to., 486 pp., 35 8.)

Lindeman (K.). Coleophora Tritici, ein neues schidliches Insect. Bull. Soc. Imp.
Nat. Moscou, t. 56, pp. 39-42.

Riley (C. V.). Probable Sound Organs in Sphingid Pupae. Amer. Naturalist, v. 16,
pp. 745, 746.

Riley (C. V.). The Silk-worm; being a brief Manual of Instruction for the produc-
tion of Silk. Withillustr. Washington, 1882. (8vo., Dept. of Agriculture. Special
Report No. 11, 2d edition.)

Scudder (Samuel H.). Fragments of the coarser Anatomy of Diurnal Lepidoptera.
Psyche, v. 3, pp. 263-275 ; 295-298 ; 307-309.

Selvatico (Silvestre.). Sullo sviluppo embrionale dei Bombici. Con7 tay. Bollet. di
Bachicoltura. Anno 8, pp. 79-115.

Sur le développement embryonnaire des Bombyciens. Avec1 pl. Jour. de
Microgr.,6. Ann., pp. 167-172; 216-223.

Zimmermann (Carl). Die Variabilitat der Schmetterlinge in ihren verschiedenen
Entwickelungsstadien und der biologische Werth von Form, Farbe, und Zeinchnung.
Verhandl. Ver. f. Naturwiss. Hamburg, 5 Bd., pp. 58-62; 66-68.

A new order of Myriapods.

In 1865 Messrs. Meek and Worthen described a peculiar genus of
articulates based on a specimen found in the carboniferous forma-
tion of Illinois and named it Paleocampa. They referred the new type,
with some hesitation, to the class of worms. Other specimens have
been lately examined by Mr. 8. H. Scudder, and that naturalist came
to the conclusion that the old type was neither a worm nor caterpil-
lar, but really belonged to the group of Myriapods, and represented in
that group a previously undifferentiated order, which has been named
_Protosyngnatha. Mr. Scudder was led by the study of this type to the
conclusions, (1) that in this ancient Myriapod, as old as any with which
we are acquainted, we sind dermal appendages of an extraordinary high
organization, more complicated than anything of the sort found in liv-
ing arthropods; and, (2) that at the early period when it lived the
divergence of structure among Myriapods was as great as it is to-day.
The bearings of these facts are discussed at length by Mr. Scudder.
588 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882,

Mimicry by plume-moths.

The plume-moths have wings cleft into feathery plumes, and when
flying remind one of drifting thistle-down. Mr. J. H. Taylor recalls that
of about twenty species of Pterophorus whose larval habits are known,
one-half feed on composite plants having plumed seeds, and it is there-
fore suggested that the wings of the moths, mimicking the down, must
be protective to females when depositing their eggs, as well as when
they are flying.

VIII. MOLLUSCOIDS.
POLYZOANS.

Barrois (Jules). Embryogénie des Bryozoaires. Essai dune théorie générale du
dévelopement basée sur l’étude des métamorphoses. Avec lpl. Journ. del’Anat.
et dela Physiol., 1882.

. Embryogeny of the Bryozoa; an attempt at a general theory of their devel-
opment, [ete.] With1pl. Ann. & Mag. Nat. Hist. (5), p. 265-279, p. 388-403, pl. 14.

Julien (J.) Note sur une nouvelle division des Bryozoaires cheilostomiens. Bull.
Soc. Zool. France, 6. Ann., pp. 271-285. ’

Hicks (Thomas). Oncertainremarkable modifications of the avicularium in a species
of Polyzoan; and on the relation of the vibraculum to the avicularium., Ann.
and Mag. Nat. Hist., (5,) v.9, pp. 20-25.

M’Intosh (W. Carmichael.) Preliminary notice of Céphalodiscus, a new type allied
to Prof. Allman’s Rhabdopleura, dredged by H. M.S. ‘‘Challenger.” Ann. and Mag.
Nat. Hist., (5,) v. 10, p. 337-348.

A new Rhabdopleuran.

A new genus of Rhabdopleure, an order of Polyzoans hitherto only
known through one genus—Rhabdopleura—has been made known by
Professor McIntosh. It has been named Cephalodiscus. It is especially
distinguished by remarkable branchial or tentacular plumes and by the
perfectly free condition of the polypides. It may be added that Profes-
sor Lankester visited Norway in August expressly to study Rhabdo-
pleura, and was successful in finding it in considerable numbers and
under favorable conditions.

Variations of the avicularium in Polyzoans.

As the Rev. Thomas Hincks well remarks, ‘‘ The homology between
the curious avicularian [or bird-head-like] appendage which is present
on so many of the cheilostomata and the zocecium with its contained
zooid has been amply demonstrated and is now generally admitted.
Indeed the rudimentary or primary forms of the organ exhibit so slight
an amount of divergence from the ordinary cells that we have no diffi-
culty in recognizing the morphological relationship between the two;
and from this starting point a series of transitional forms conducts us
to the most highly specialized term, in which the zoccial type is
effectually marked.” Further, “the avicularium with more or less
elongated mandible is a step towards the second of the appendicular
organs with which the Cheilostomatous Polyzoa are furnished, the

ZOOLOGY. 589

vibraculum.” Transitions between these two types have even been
found in one species of Polyzoan, the ubiquitous Microporella ciliata.
In specimens from the Queen Charlotte Islands the following modifi-
cations were found: (1) ‘ordinary avicularium with pointed beak”;
(2) “‘avicularium with the mandible elongated into a spine”; (3) ‘avicu-
larium with the spinous mandible supporting a membranous flapper”;
and (4) “vibraculoid structure with tall, well-developed seta and
partially-modified beak.”

BRACHIOPODS.
General.

Bemmelen (J. F, van). Over den Bouw der Schelpen van Brachiopoden en Chitonen.
Med1pl. Acad. Proefschr. Leiden, Brill, 1882. (8vo. 103 pp.)
Untersuchungen iiber den anatomischen und histologischen Bau der Bra-

chiopoda testicardinia. Mit 5 Taf. Jena. Zeitschr. f. Naturwiss., 17. Bd., pp.
88-161.

Relations of the Brachiopods.

For the benefit of such as may desire to become acquainted with the
literature of Brachiopodology, it is fit to state here that Van Bemmelen’s
article on the anatomical and histological structure of the Brachiopods
is directed in part to the attempt to prove an intimate relationship
between that class and the worms. It is claimed that instead of being
allied to the Mollusca, the Brachiopods ‘appear to present the closest
resemblance to the Chetognatha, Not only do the ectoderm, enteric
canal, and the body-cavity present just the same developmental history,
but in both we observe a feeble development of connective tissue; the
only differentiation in this layer is the formation of supporting fibres.”
It is concluded that “the important differences are the possession by
the Brachiopod of a shell and of a stalk; but the former has been shown
to be merely a thickening of the cuticle, and the secondary value of the
latter is shown by the differences between the Testi- and Eeardines.”
(J. R. M.S., (2,) v. 3, p. 838-360.)

Dr. Van Bemmelen’s facts, so far as given by the abstract, appear
on the whole to be well enough, but his use and collocation of them
scarcely seem justifiable on principles of sound logic and the facts con-
travening his postulate have scarcely been sufficiently considered.

IX. MOLLUSKS.
General works.

Fischer (Paul). Manuel de Conchyliologie ou histoire naturelle des Mollusques vi-
vants et fossiles. Fasc. iv (Céphalopodes). pp. 305-416, fig. 105-201. Paris, F.
Savy, 1882. 8vo.

Kobelt (Wilhelm). Kataloge lebender Molluskex (Fusus Lam., Pisania Biv., Pollia
Gray, Metula H. et A. Ad., Buccinopsis Jefir., Neobuccinum E. A. Sm., Chlanidota
Marts., Clavella Sws., Desmoulea Gray). Jahrb. deutsch. Malakozool. Ges., 9.
Jahrg., pp. 8-29.
590 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882.

Martens (Edouard yon). Conchologische Mittheilungen, als Fortsetzung der Novi-
tates conchologice. Kassel, Th. Fischer, 1881. (8vo. Bd. I, viii, 101 pp., 18 Taf.
M. 22. Bad. II, Heft.1,2, pp. 103-128, Taf. 21-24. M. 8.)

Martini und Chemnitz (Systematisches Conchylien-Cabinet von ); neue reich ver-
mehrte Ausgabe [ete.], forgesetzt von Dr. W. Kobelt und H. C. Weinkauff. 314.
Lief. [ete.] Niirnberg, Bauer u. Raspe, 1882. (4to., M.9, each.)

Pfeiffer (Louis). Malakozoologische Blitter. Forgesetzt von S. Clessin. 5. Bd.,
Bog. 7, etc. Kassel, Th. Fischer, 1882. (#vo.)

Tryon (George W.), jr. Manual of Conchology, structaral and systematic. With il-
lustrations of the species. Vol. IV. Philadelphia, Author, 1882, (8vo. Col., $20;
plain, $12.)

Structural and systematic Conchology. An introduction to the study of the

Mollusca. Vol. I. Philadelphia, Author, 1882. (8vo.)

Journals.
Journal de Conchyliologie [ete.], publié sous Ja direction de H. Crosse et P. Fischer.
[t. 30, or] 3. sér., t. xxii. Paris, H. Crosse, 1882. (8vo.)
Journal (The) of Conchology. v.4. London, D. Bogue, 1882. (8vo.)

Procds-verbaux des séances de la Société Royale Malacologique de Belgique. t. Xi.
Année 1882. Bruxelles, 1882. (8vo.)

Morphology.
Simroth (H.) Ueber das Nervensystem und die Bewegung der deutschen Binnen.
schnecken. Mit 1 Taf. Progr. Realschule II. Ordn. Leipzig, 1882. (Progr. No.
503), pp. 3-29.

Cattaneo (Giac.) Le Colonie lineari e la Morfologia dei Molluschi. Con 15 incis. in
legno e 2 tav. cromolit. Milano, frat. Dumolard, 1882. (8vo., xxiv, 420 pp.)

Individualita dei Molluschi. Communic. preventiva. Boll. Scientif. Maggi,
Zoja, etc. Anno4. pp. 659-664.

Faunas.

(North America. )

Verrill (A. E.). Catalogue of Marine Mollusca added to the Fauna of New England
during the past ten years. With 6 pl. Trans. Connecticut Acad., v. 5, pp. 447-
587.

Notice of recent additions to the marine Invertebrata of the north-eastern
coast of America [ete.]. Part IV. Additions to the deep-water Mollusca taken
off Martha’s Vineyard in 1880 and 1881. Proc. U.S. Nat. Mus. v. 5, pp. 315-343.

Wetherby (A. G.). Geographical distribution of certain fresh-water Mollusks of
North America and the probable cause of their variation. Amer. Journ. Sc., (3,)
v. 23. pp. 203-212.

White (C. A.). Conditions attending the geological descent of some fresh-water
gill-bearing Mollusks. Amer. Jour. Sc., (3,) v. 23, pp. 382-386.

( Europe.)

Locard (Arnauld). Prodrome de malacologie frangaise. Catalogue général des mol-
lusques vivants de France (Mollusques terrestres, des eaux douces et des eaux
saumAtres). Lyon, Georg; Paris, J.-B. Baillitre et fils, 1882. (8vo., vi, 466 pp.)

( Asia.)

Martens (E. von). Ueber centralasiatische Mollusken. Mit 5 Taf. Mém. Acad. Imp.
Se. St.-Petersburg (7), t. 30 (65 pp. M. 4. 70.)

ZOOLOGY. 591

Mémoires concernant |’Histoire naturelle de ’empire chinois par des Péres de 1.1 Com-
pagnie de Jésus. 2 cahier. Notes sur les mollusques terrestres de la vallée du
Fleuve Bleu. Chang-Hai, 1882. (4to, 90 pp., 10 pl.)

Mollendorff (O.von). Materialien zur Fauna von China. I. Die Deckelschnecken.
Mit 2 Taf. Jahrb. deutsch. malak. Ges., 9. Jahrg., 1882, pp. 251-278.

(Africa. )

Crosse (Henri). Faune malacologique dulac Tanganyika. Avec1 pl. Journ. de Con-
chyliol., t. 30.

(Australia. )

Smith (Edgar A.). On the fresh-water shells of Australia, with 3 pl. Journ. Linn. Soc.
London, Zool., v. 16, p. 255-317. (155 sp., of which 27 are new; 14 pseudo-Aus-
tralian sp.)

CONCHIFERS.

Morphology.

Mitsukuri (K.). On the structure and significance of some aberrant forms of Lamel-
libranchiate gills. With 1 pl. Stud. Biolog. Laborat, Johns Hopkins University,
v. 2, p. 257-270. (Reprinted from Quart. Journ. Micr. Sc.)

The Oysters.

Bouchon-Brandely. De la sexualité chez l’huitre ordinaire (O. edulis) et chez Vhuitre
portugaise (O. angulata), Fécondations artificielle de V’huitre portugaise. Note
de M. Bouchon-Brandely, presentée par M. Berthelot. Comptes rendus, Acad. Sci.
Paris, t. 95, pp. 256-259, July 31, 1882.

On the sexuality of the common and that of the Portuguese oyster (0. angu-

lata). Artificial fecundation of the Portuguese oyster. Translatedby J. A. Ryder.

Bull. U. S. Fish Commission, v. 2, pp. 339-341.

Rapport relatif 4 la génération et 4 la f6condation artificielle des huitres,

adressé au ministre de la marine et des colonies, par M. Bouchon-Brandely, se-

erétaire du Collége de France. Journal officiel de la République Frangaise. Dec.

16 and 17, 1882; pp. 6762-6764 and 6778-6782.

Report relative to the generation and artificial fecundation of oysters, ad-
dressed to the minister of the marine and colonies. (With notes by J. A. Ryder.)
Bull. U. S. Fish Commission, y. 2, pp. 319-338.

Hoek (P. P. C.) Recherches sur les organes génitaux des huiitres. Comptes rendus,
t. 95, Nov. 6, 1882. :

. Researches on the generative organs of the oyster (O. edulis). (A translation
of the foregoing by J. A. Ryder.) Bull. U. S. Fish Commission, v. 2, pp. 343-547.

Horst (R.) Bijdrage tot de Kennis yan de Ontwikkelingsgeschiedenis van de Oester
(Ostrea edulis L.). Tijdschr. d: Ned. Dierk. Vereen., dl. 6, 1882.

——. On the development of the European oyster (Ostrea edulis L.). Quar. Journ.
Mic. Sci., n. 8s. v. xxii, pp. 341-346, pl. 27.

A contribution to our knowledge of the development of the oyster (Ostrea

edulis L.). (Translated from the original Dutch by J. A. Ryder.) Bull. U.S.

Fish Commission, v. ii., pp. 159-167.

Oysters and their propagation.

Much alarm has been felt in some quarters lest nature unaided should
be unable to answer the demands of an oyster-loving population, in-
creasing in an extraordinary ratio, and covering a continent. The U.
S. Commissioner of Fisheries therefore delegated Mr. John A. Ryder, an
accomplished embryologist, to investigate the feasibility of the artificial
propagation of the esteemed mollusk. Meanwhile European govern-
592 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882.

ments and naturalists were on their side seeking what could be done
for the old world, and Messrs. Hoek and Horst in the Netherlands, and
Bouchon-Brandely in France, especially took up the investigation of the
question. These several naturalists have materially added to the infor-
mation previously gleaned by Davaine and Brooks, and the results of re-
cent investigations have been ably digested by Mr. Ryder in “a sum-
mary of recent progress in our knowledge of the culture, growth, and
anatomy of the oyster.” From that summary we derive the following
data, using in most cases Mr. Ryder’s own words:

The oysters of greatest economical importance are three in number,’
(1) the common species of Northern Europe, Ostrea edulis ; (2) a more
southern species, formerly not occurring northward of the Lusitanian
peninsula, Ostrea angulata, and (3) the ordinary Virginia oyster, Ostrea
virginica.

According to M. Bouchon-Brandely, ‘“ twenty or twenty-five yearsago
the Portuguese oysters, indigenous to the Tagus, did not exist on the
coasts of France. A damaged vessel discharged its cargo into the
Gironde, upon the old Bane de Richard. Here they have since so mul-
tiplied that they cover an extent of from twenty-five to thirty kilome-
ters, a vast bed which will soon ke limited only by the banks of the
river.

Ostrea edulis is undoubtedly hermaphrodite - - - ‘The Portu-
guese oyster is, on the other hand, incontestably unisexual. Like the
American oyster, as shown by Brooks, its ova and milt are expelled
from the shell. Neither ova nor embryos are ever found in its mantle.
The young of the common oyster cannot live outside of the shell. Ac-
cording to M. Berthelot’s investigations the fluids in the mantle cavity
of O. edulis contain albumen in a notable proportion, upon which the
young are supposed to be nourished. M. Bouchon-Brandely found that
the young of O. edulis, whether in the form of white or gray spat, could
not be developed in sea water external to the parent; the white embryos
died in three days, the gray after twelve or fifteen days after their re-
moval from the parent, although within reach of collectors. These facts
he thinks, preclude the possibility of the crossing of the species. With
respect to this point, however, our author made direct experiments, or
attempts to hybridize the two species, which gave only negative results.
Mixtures of the eggs of O. edulis with the milt of O. angulata and rice
versa, never resulted in fertilization, although the experiments were
repeated at different times for the last two years.

M. Bouchon-Brandely succeeded in artificially fertilizing eggs of O.
angulata. The vital properties of both elements were retained for two
to three hours. The embryos began to swim at Verdon in seven hours.
The shell was formed on the sixth to the seventh day. The temperature
of the water was 22 deg. C. (equal to about 71 deg. Fahr.). The artificial
fecundation presented no difficulties. Four times out of five, if good
ZOOLOGY. 593

spawn is used, mobile embryos will be produced. The spawning takes
piace in O. angulata for several weeks and gradually.

‘An inclosure about thirty-five feet square was prepared at Verdon,
ito which the animated products of successive fecundations were
poured. The sea water was permitted to enter this space through a
bed of fine sand, and to pass out in the same way. This evabled the
experimenter to retain the artificially spawned embryos within the in-
closure. After a month of reiterated experiments our endeavors were
crowned with success. We had the satisfaction of finding some brood
fixed on each of the tiles placed in our experimental ‘clear.’ This is so
much the more remarkable as until last week [this appears to have
been in July] no spat had yet attached itself to the numerous collectors
immersed on the oyster beds of the Gironde; that is to say, in the very
center of the clear.”

Mr. Ryder, commenting on these experiments, justly claims that they
are of the highest interest and may be of great practical value, especially
the means resorted to in order to prevent the escape and loss of the
embryos from the clearor pond. The Virginian oyster is related physio-
logically as well as morphologically to the Portuguese species, and what
could be done for the one could doubtless be accomplished for the
other. .

Mr. Ryder turned his special attention to the American form. Dur-
ing the past season he found, after opening the animal carefully, that it
is easy to remove the ova and milt from the female and male by strok-
ing the generative ducts towards their outlet, when the products can
be picked up with a pipette or “‘ medicine dropper” and transferred to
water free from extraneous matters of every kind. He also found that
when the milky mass is dropped into water the character of the cloud
of particles produced in the water at once diagnoses the sex of the
individual from which the spawn has been obtained. If the animal be
a male the cloud produced upon stirring breaks up into wisps and
streaks, which resemble the cirrus clouds or mare’s tails of meteorolo-
gists. If the specimen be a female the spawn when dropped into the
water immediately breaks up into a distinetly granular cloud. These —
differences are so marked that any person may be taught to recognize
them in a few minutes. The new method of removing the spawn and
milt from the reproductive organs insures greater success in impregna-
tion. Ninety per cent. of the eggs may be fertilized by the new method,
a result scarcely possible with the usual plan of chopping up the re-
productive organs. This method, together with the mode of discrimi-
nating the sexes without the use of a microscope, puts us in a fair way
to realize some part of a scheme of artificial propagation.

Mr. Ryder also ascertained the nature of the collapse and shrinking
of the oyster body about the end of the breeding season. It is due to
a total atrophy or wasting away of the reproductive organs at the com

pletion of the spawning season. The whole of the connective tissue sub-
H. Mis. 26 v8

594 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882.

jacent to the mantle, and between the latter and the liver, disappears,
together with all traces of the reproductive organs, ducts and all. ‘At
the first bend of the intestine there is still some of the connective tissue
remaining, but even here and in the mantle it has changed its charac-
ter entirely, and become very spongy and areolar, instead of solid, and
composed of large vesicular cells, such as are met with when the animal
is ina better condition of flesh. In fact, it appears as if this mesen-
chymal or connective tissue substance had been used up and converted
into reproductive bodies—generative products—in the case of the
spawn-spent and extremely emaciated individuals. In sections from
individuals in various conditions, from that in which the rudimentary
network of generative tubules has just appeared in the connective
tissue, on up to those in which the reproductive tissues are enormously
developed in bulk and proportion ta the mass of the remaining struct-
ures, there is a perfect gradation frém their complete absence to their
full development. This would appear to be very strong evidence in
support of the theory that the reproductive follicles or tubules are de-
veloped anew each season directly from the specialization of certain
strings or strands of connective tissue cells.”

Mr. Ryder adds that many animals manifest a periodic development
of the glandular portions of the reproductive organs, but he knew of no.
form in which there is any such presumptive evidence that these organs
are annually regenerated and finally altogether aborted as seems to be
the case with the oyster. ‘Together with the changes here described,
the most remarkable changes in the solidity and consistence of the ani-
mal take place. The shrinkage of a spawn-spent oyster in alcohol or a
chromic acid solution is excessive, and will, when complete, reduce the
animal to one-tenth of its bulk while alive. This shrinkage is due to
abstraction of the water with which the loose, spongy tissue of the ex-
hausted animal is distended. A so-called ‘fat’ oyster, on the other
hand, will suffer no such excessive diminution in bulk when placed in
alcohol or other hardening fluid. In consequence of this variable de-
velopment of the reproductive organs as well as that of the connective
tissue of the body mass, the amount of solid protoplasmic material con-
tained in the same animal at different times must vary between wide
limits. And inasmuch as the nutritive and reproductive functions of
animals are notoriously interdependent, it follows in consequence of
the enormous fertility of the oyster that a vast amount of stored mate-
rial in the shape of connective tissue must be annuaily converted into
germs and annually replaced by nutritive processes. Plenitude or
dearth of food are also to be considered, but it now becomes a little
easier to understand the physiological interdependence of the repro-
ductive function and the so-called fattening process.

“The widespread belief in ‘fat’? and ‘poor’ oysters is simply a
widespread delusion, if it be maintained that fleshy oysters owe their
rotundity to a deposit of oleaginous or fatty matter. Far from deny-

ZOOLOGY. 595

ing that there is absolutely no fatty matter in these mollusks, I do most
emphatically deny that the winter plumpness of the animal is due to
such a cause, but rather to large accumulations of protoplasmic matter
of a soft, slimy consistency, identical with the more substantial parts
of the higher animals. This popular error in regard to the true cause
of the plumpness or leanness of the oyster, as the case may be, is only
another illustration,” adds Mr. Ryder, “of the very many erroneous ideas
of the intensely practical multitude who decry scientific methods, which
are after all only very rigorously exact common sense methods under
another name.”

The much-mooted question as to the cause of the green color of some
oysters was also inquired into by Mr. Ryder.

His investigations of green oysters confirmed a former conclusion
reached by him—that the color was due to a tincture of the blood cells
either derived from green vegetable food or possibly by an effect of cer-
tain food upon the secretions of liver which have changed in color. The
greened blood cells accumulate in.some cases in the interstices of the
muscular trabecule of the ventricle, and are sometimes even packed
down behind the auriculo-ventricular valves so as to impede their ac-
tion. They apparently lose their amoeboid disposition to a great extent.
“This amoebal character of the blood-cell of the oyster is very striking,
and may continue to exhibit itself in the living blood-corpusceles for
four hours after their removal from the animal. The cysts filled with
green cells are simply points in the pallial vessels which have been dis-
tended by these abnormal accumulations. The greenish cells and blood
corpuscles are of about the same size, or about 1-3,000th of an inch in
diameter. They are evidently not parasitic; none were ever seen to
present anything like an appearance of commencing fission.”

GASTROPODS.
General.

Dall (W.H.) On certain Limpets and Chitons from the deep-sea waters off the east-
ern coast of the United States. Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., v. 4, p. 400-414.

Grabau (H.) Ueberdie Spiralen der Conchylien, mit besonderer Bezugnahme aut d ie
Naumann’sche Conchospirale. Leipzig, Hinrich’s Verlag in Comm., 1882 (4to, 39
pp. mit 1 Taf. M. 1.)

Amphineurans.

Hubrecht (A. A. W.) A Contribution to the Morphology of the Amphineura. With
woodcuts. Quart. Jour. Miscroscop. Sc., v. 22, p. 212-228.

Pulmonates.

Morelet (A.) Observations critiques sur le mémoire de M. E. R. Martens, intitulé:
Moliusques des Mascareignes et des Séchelles. Journ. de Conchyliol., v. 30, pp.
85-106.

Rochebrune (A. T. de). De Vovoviviparité chez les Mollusques pulmonés terrestres
inoperculés, Bull. Soc. Philomath., Paris, t. 6, pp. 219-225.
596 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882.

Schepmann (M.M.) Die Zungen der Hyalinen. Mit 3 Taf. Jahrb. deutsch. Malak.
Ges., 9. Jahrg., pp. 236-243.

Taylor (J. W.) Life History of British Helices. Helixarbustorum. With1 pl. Journ,
of Conchol., v. 3, p. 241-256.

Aglossate Nudibranthiates.

Graff (Ludwig von). Ueber Rhodope Veranii Kéll. (=Sidonia elegans M, Schultze.)
Mit 1Taf. Morphol. Jahrb., 8. Bd., pp. 73-84.

Nudibranchiates.

Berg (Rudolf). Beitriige zur Kenntniss der Aeolidiaden. Mit 6 Taf. Verhandl.
k. k. zool.-bot. Ges., Wien, 1882, pp. 7-74.

Pectinibranchiates.

Carriére (Justus). Marginella glabella L. und die Pseudomarginellen. Zeitschr. f.
wiss. Zool., 37. Bd., pp. 99-120, pl. 9. z

Haller (Béla). Zur Kenntniss der Muriciden. Eine vergleichend-anatomische.
Studie. 1. Th. Anatomie des Nervensystems. Mit3 Taf. u. 2 Holzschn. (Arbeiten
aus dem zool.-vergl.-anat. Institute der Univers. Wien.) Denkschr. d. Wien. Akad.,
Math.-Nat. Cl., 45. Bd., pp. 87-106.

Rhodope a Nudibranchiate.

Many years ago a small worm-like animal was described by Kolliker
under the name Ihodope Veranii, and approximated by him to the
Nudibranchiate Mollusks, and it has been there retained by several
malacologists. Some doubt has been entertained as to its relationships,
however, and the same type was redescribed as Sidonia elegans, and re-
ferred by Schultze to the Turbellarian worms. Recently the species
has been re-examined by Professor Graff, and according to that naturalist
it differs from the Turbellarians by its central ganglia, its sensory appa-
ratus, its generative organs, and the anus, and in these respects most
resembles the Nudibranchiate Gastropods. Nevertheless it is devoid of
a buccal mass and odontophore, as well as gills. Although retained in
the order of Nudibranchiates, it is therefore regarded as the lowest term
of that series. It is considered to be a derivative from a generalized
Rhabdoceelid stock named “ Alloioccela”—a conclusion which some may
doubt until its embryology is known, and that may be required even to
prove its pertinence to the Nudibranchiates.

A new family of American Gastropods.

Ten years ago, in the Canadian Naturalist, certain small shells found
in Postpliocene deposits of Canada were described by Dr. P. P. Carpen-
ter as representatives of a new generic type, Choristes elegans. This
form has been found living by attachés of the U.S. Fish Commission
in deep water (225 fathoms) off Martha’s Vineyard, and an examination
of its structure has caused Professor Verrill to differentiate it as a pecu-
liar family type—the Choristide. These are Tectibranchiates with a
thick short head; large retractile pharynx; well-developed jaws; an

/’ ZOOLOGY. 597

odontophore, with three rows of rhachidian teeth, and on each side a
broad bilobed inner lateral, and two rows of small, hook-shaped outer
lateral teeth (1.14 1.2 x 2); with frontal tentacles, united by a fold and
small posterior tentacles, and witha heliciform shell provided with a
paucispiral operculum.

Although the living shells have been referred to the same species as
the fossilized, they have been distinguished as a variety (named tenera),
inasmuch as they have a ‘much thinner and more fragile texture,” but
. this difference, it is suggested, ‘‘ may be due to mere local conditions.”

It should be added that the gills of the Choristiids are “‘ large, attached
to the inner surface of the mantle on the left side of the neck, and ex-
tending over to the right side, consisting of numerous lamelle. (Proce.
U. S. Nat Mus.,v. 5, p. 337.)

A new deep-sea family of Docoglossates.

The family Cocculinide has been proposed for two limpet-like mol.
lusks, of deep water, exhibiting a peculiar combination of characters.
The two are congeneric, representing a new genus called Cocculina, and
belong to the order of Rhipidoglossa. The dentition is typical—
50-150 (1 + 3) I (3 4+ 1) 150-50—and resembles that of the Fissurellide
and Helicinide; but there is only a single asymmetrical gill, no append-
ages to the side of the foot or on the mantle are developed, and the shell
is patelliform, unfissured, unsinuated, and entirely external. The spe-
cies have been found at the depth of over 100 fathoms east of the New
England coast, and in deeper water in the Caribbean Sea.

A new deep-sea family of Fissurelloid Rhipidoglossates.

The family Addisoniidz has been constituted for the reception of a
remarkable limpet-like Gastropod found about 75 miles south and west
from Martha’s Vineyard, at a depth of from 96 to 130 fathoms. The
mollusk belongs to the order of Rhipidoglossa, but has a very peculiar
dentition, viz, 1 (14+ 24 2) 1(2+4 2 +4 1) 1—the single uncini being flat
and scale-like. The parts are very asymmetrical, and there is an enor-
mously developed lateral series of separately inserted gill-lamine, like
those of the Patellide, but no filamentary appendage of any kind. The
shell is asymmetrical and porcellanous. The type is interesting as being
a generalized—or what would have been called by Agassiz a “ syn-
thetic”—form. The species has been named Addisonia paradoxa.

The Pseudomarginelle.

In the annual report of the Smithsonian Institution for the year 1880,
a notice of a preliminary article by Dr. Justus Carriére on Marginella
glabella and Pseudomarginella was given. Dr. Carriére claimed to have
found in shells having the aspect of ‘‘Marginella glabella” animals
exhibiting three very different types of dentition. It was then supposed
by the reporter that the statement that the shells associated with the
598 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882.

several animals would be regarded by a conchologist as Marginella
glabella was to some extent figurative and intended to convey an idea
of a similarity which strongly contrasted with the dissimilarity of the
animals. During the past year a full monograph of the several forms
has been published by Dr. Carriére. It now appears that the shells
are actually undistinguishable specifically from each other, and unless

special attention was called to them, a conchologist would unhesitat-

ingly consider them to be of the same species. Let it be remembered

that the shell of * Marginella glabella” is very characteristic in form as .
well as color, and the difficulty of believing that such a species of
shell may be developed by animals of three different families of mol-

lusks may be understood. It will be much more credible that Dr.

Carriére has been imposed upon, and that the animals of other shells

have been skillfully transferred into emptied shells of Marginella gla-

bella than to believe that such an anomaly as has been alleged should

occur in nature. Dr. Carriére’s good faith cannot be impugned, but

there is too much reason to fear that he has been made the victim of a

hoax or perhaps a deliberate fraud. Dr. Carriére has well summarized

the alleged facts in a tabular form, which is herewith literally translated.

The data purport to be the result of examination of eleven specimens,

six of which had a marginelloid animal and the others operculigerous

ones.

Animal. | Shell. Foot. Operculum. | Tentacles.
| \ |
Marginella glabella....-. Marginella| Broad and flat, nar- | Wanting -..-.-.--. | Long, attenuated.
| glabella. rowed backwards, | |
red.
Pseudomarginella lepto- | Marginella| Narrow andhigh, uni- | Unguiculate, like | Short, broad.
pus. glabella. formly wide, color- that of Fusus. |
less, on the side |
black spots. |
Pseudomarginella platy- | Marginella| Broad and flat, uni- | Lamellar,likethat | Short, cylindrical
pus. glabella. formly wide, color- of Purpura.
less. |

( Table—continued. )

Animal. Radula. | Foot gland. Family.

Marginella glabella....--.--- | A single median, broad, and Large in compari- | Marginellacea.
multidentate tooth. | son with the foot.

Pseudomarginella leptopus..| Lateral teeth, broader than Very small .-.--.--.- | Buecinacea (prob-
the rachidian. ably).

Pseudomarginella platypus... Lateral teeth unguiculate, | Very small ..-.-.--- Purpuracea (prob-
much narrower than the | ably).
rachidian. |

It thus appears that (1) the same species of shell (using the word
“species” in a literal sense) is repeated in the several types, and that (2)
the several animals, exclusive of the shells, are strictly related to the
numerous representatives of three widely differentiated families, and
would be unhesitatingly referred to such families were it not for the
shells. We are then called upon to decide which of two alteruatives is

ZOOLOGY. 599

the more probable, (1) that the same species of shell is developed by three
family types which otherwise have the hard and soft parts duly co-
ordinated, or (2) that the animals have been dissociated from their own
shells, and in some way or other been thrust into shells of Marginella
glabella. If the alleged facts of Dr. Carriére were established, no cer-
tainty could be enjoyed in either morphology or paleontology. It is
noteworthy, finally, that there is no co-ordination between the opercula
or animals of the pseudomarginelle and the shells.

CEPHALOPODS.
General.

Blake (J. F.) A Monograph of the British Fossil Cephalopoda. Part I. Introduc-
tion and Silurian Species. With31pl. London, Van Voorst, 1882. (4°. 244 pp.)

Brock (J.) Zur Anatomie und Systematik der Cephalopoden. Mit 4 Taf. Zeitschr,
f. wiss. Zool., v. 36, pp. 543-610.

Fischer (Paul). Sur la classification des Céphalapodes. Journ. de conehyliol., v. 30,
pp. 55-57.

Maurice (Charles). Exposé des recherches de M. W. Branco sur ’embryogénie et les
affinités des céphalopodes fossiles. 2 partie. Lille. Ann. Soc. Géol. du Nord,
y. 9,pp. 104-125.

Steenstrup (Japetus). Notze teuthologice. Oversigt k. Danske Vidensk. Selsk.
Forhandl., 1882, pp. 143-168. ;

Digestion.
Borquelot (Em.) Recherches expérimentales suar l’action des sacs digestifs des Ceph-
alopodes sur les matiéres amylocées et sucrées. Archiv. Zool. Expériment., v. 10,
pp. 385-422.
Ink-bag.
Girod (P.) Recherches sur la poche du noir des céphalopodes des cétes de France

Avéc5pl. Archiv. Zool. Expérim., t.10, pp. 1-100; Abstr. in Journ. R. Microse.
Soc. London (2), v. 2, pp. 487-489.

The major groups of Cephalopods.

The Cephalopods are of peculiar interest on account of the intense
morphological specialization of the members, their range in time and
space, and the geological history of the group. Within a short period
much has been contributed to a better understanding of the class by
Messrs. A. Hyatt, Munier-Chalmas, Broch, Paul Fischer, and especially
A. BE. Verrill. The taxonomic rank of the Cephalopods as a class may
be considered to be established and undisputed, and equally certain is
it that all the living forms are perfectly segregable into two primary sec-
tions of the value of orders at least. These groups were first correctly
defined and named Tetrabranchiata and Dibranchiata by Professor
Owen in 1838, but were earlier recognized and denominated Tentaculi-
féres and Acétabuliféres by Ferussac and d@’Orbigny in 1834. But there
are numerous extinct Cephalopods as to whose affinities there are still
some doubts. For along time they were supposed to be closely related
to the Nautilids, and consequently to be Tetrabranchiates ; such are
the Ammonites and kindred forms. But Professer A gassiz nearly twenty
600 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882. 5

years ago urged that they were ordinally distinct from both the Tetra-
branchiates and Dibranchiates, and distinguished them as the order of
Ammonoids, and was followed therein by Professor Hyatt, and M.
Munier-Chalmas, in 1874, even considered them to be nearer the Dibran-
chiates than to the Tetrabranchiates. Recently M. Fischer has acceded
to the view that they represent an order (‘“‘Ammonea”). As to the fur-
ther subdivision of the class, the Dibranchiates are with one accord
divided into two groups (generally called suborders) distinguished by
the development or want of two unusually elongated tentacular arms
inside the circle of eight sessile arms common to all the order. Those
forms with tentacular arms (Decaceres or Decapods) have an elongated
body, with lateral fins, and an internal “shell” or “‘ gladius”; those with-
out the corresponding arms have a roundish sacciform body and are
destitute of an internal shell, and are known as Octopods. |

The families of Ammonoids.

The “order Ammonea” or Ammonoids is primarily subdivided by
Fischer into (1) the Retrosiphonata, in which the partitions are infundi-
bulate backwards around the siphon, and (2) the Prosiphonata, whereof
the perisiphonal infundibulatiop is advanced forwards. The Prosipho-
nata are by far the most numerous, and were mostly formerly confounded
under the generic name Ammonites; they represent, however, a number
of families which have been segregated into two major groups, (a) the
Aptychidea, which have an “‘aptychus” composed of two calcareous
pieces free or consolidated, and (b) the Anaptychidea, which are desti-
tute of an aptychus, or at least of a calcareous one. The families ad-
mitted are the following :

A. Retrosiphonata (Goniatitida).

B. Prosiphonata a. Anaptychidea. Section 1. Latisellata.—(Arces-
tide, Tropitida, Ceratitida, Clydonitide). Section 2. Angustisellata.—
(Pinacoceratide, Amaltheide, Ammonitide, Lytoceratide). b. Aptychi-
dea (Harpoceratide, Stephanoceratide).

Some American paleontologists, especially Professor Hyatt and the
late Professor Agassiz, have admitted still more numerous families, and
for other reasons.

Families of Tetrabranchiates.

M. Fischer has admitted only three families of Tetrabranchiates in
his recent classification of the Cephalopods—the prosiphonate Notho-
ceratids and the retrosiphonate Nautilids and Ascoceratids. The Nau-
tilids include all these forms with the partitions perpendicular to the
axis of the shell, and the Ascoceratids, those whose partitions are very
oblique and become even subparallel to the axis. In fine, his arrange-
ment is presented in the following manner :

A. Prosiphonata (Nothoceratide).
B. Retrosinhonata (Nautilide, Ascoceratide).

ZOOLOGY, 601

it will be thus seen that the growth of the shell, whether in a spiral
or other curve or even straight, is not only subordinated to other char-
acters (and undoubtedly with propriety), but is ignored as a family
character.

The families of Decacerous Dibranchiates.

The suborder of Decacerous or Decapod Cephalopods has been gen-

erally differentiated into two primary groups—(1) the ‘‘ Oigopside,” re-
puted to have the “eyes naked in front, furnished with free lids, with or
without an anterior sinus; pupils circular,” and (2) the ‘“* Myopside,”
contradistinguished by “eyes covered by transparent skin, sometimes
with a thickened fold, forming a lower lid, pupils crescent-shaped.”
It has been doubted, however, whether undue value has not been at-
tached to such distinctions, although their importance, to a greater or
less extent, has been admitted. During the past year several modifica-
tions have been proposed.

Mr. Tryon divided the Decaceres into (a) Decapoda chondrophora
and (b) Decapoda calcifera.

Professor Steénstrup adopts the groups Oigopside and Myopside,
and attaches importance next to the particular arm of the male which
is hectocotylized. He recognizes two series of Myopsids, which he calls
“families,” viz, (1) the “family of Rossia-Sepiola—Sepiolini,” of which
an arm of the first part is hectocotylized, and (2) the ‘family of Sepio-
Loligini,” whereof the arm of the fourth pair is hectocotylized ; the lat-
ter is subdivided into the groups (a) Loliginei, (b) Eusepii, (¢) Sepiadarii,
and (d) Idiosepii.

Dr. Fischer attaches primary importance to the nature of the internal
dorsal support or skeleton dividing the suborder into (1) Chondrophora,
(2) Sepiophora, and (3) Phragmophora. The Chondrophora are subdi-
vided into the “sections” Oigopside and Myopside.

Professor Verrill admits the groups of d’Orbigny, but adds that they
are, “‘perhaps, more convenient than natural,” and he subdivides the (1)
Oigopside into two superfamilies, the Teuthidea and Taonidea, and the
(2) Myopsidz into two also, the Sepidea and the Sepiolidea, but sug-
gests that the Spirulide (provisionally referred to the Sepidea) “ might,
perhaps, be best placed with several fossil forms in a division of which
it is the sole surviving genus.”

The extent to which the several characters referred to coincide or
traverse each other may be appreciated from the diagnoses of the sev-
eral families, which have been chiefly condensed from Professor Verrill’s
' catalogue, ete.

A. TEUTHIDOIDEA.—Decaceres with eyes naked in front, with free
lids, and not protuberant; with a subterminal valve to siphon, and with
the mantle attached to the siphon by free connective cartilages.

1. Onychoteuthids.— Teuthidoid Decaceres with free arms, with lachry-
mal sinuses; siphou valviferous, well developed nuchal crests, and ten-

602 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882.

tacular arms clavigerous and armed with horny claws or hooks, and
with “a cluster of small, smooth-rimmed suckers” about the tips.

2. Ommastrephids.—Teuthidoid Decaceres with free arms, with lach-
rymal sinuses, valviferous siphon, nuchal crests, and clavigerous clawless
tentacular arms “having four rows of suckers” about the middle of
the “ club.”

Mastigoteuthids.—Teuthidoid Decaceres with free arms, without |
lachrymal sinuses, with a valviferous siphon, without auditory crests,
and with tapering tentacular arms ‘“ covered with a multitude of minute
suckers, in many rows,” towards the ends.

4. Chiroteuthids—Teuthidoid Decaceres with free arms, with lachry-
mal sinuses, with a small siphon destitute of valve or dorsal bridle, with-
out nuchal or auditory crests, with very elongated clavigerous arms,
tipped ‘‘ with a spoon-shaped organ, opening backward” and “ with
rows of singular small suckers, having a swollen bulb on the long pedi-
cel” on the “club,” buccal membrane seven-angled, and with six bue-
eal aquiferous openings.

5. Histioteuthids.—Teuthidoid Decaceres with the six upper arms
connected by a very extensive web, without lachrymal sinuses, a siphon
without valve or dorsal bridle, without nuchal crests, long clavigerous
tentacular arms “bearing large central, and smaJl marginal suckers
and tubercles,” buccal membrane “with six smooth lobes,” and with
four buccal aquiferous openings.

B. TAONOIDEA.—Decaceres with eyes naked and free-lidded, and very
prominent, without a true subterminal valve to siphon, and with the
mantle united to the base of the siphon as well as the back of neck by
three muscular commissures.

6. Desmoteuthids—Taonoid Decaceres with the body much elon-
gated, the siphon “with three peculiar special thickenings, or raised
processes, in its basal portion.”

Several other families of Myopsid Decaceres are ian outside the
limits of Professor Verrill’s field of investigation, but their place in the
system has not been determined as exactly as is desirable. Those
which have received names are the Loligopside, Cranchiide, and
Thysanoteuthide.

©. SEPIOIDEA.—Deecaceres with eyes covered by transparent skin and
lidless, arms of the fourth pair hectocotylized, and with an internal flat-
tened calcareous gladius (sepiostaire or cuttle-fish bone).

7. Sepiids—The only known sepioid decaceres, and which furnish
the “‘ cuttle-fish bone” of commerce.

D. LOLIGINOIDEA.—Decaceres with eyes covered by transparent ex-
tension of the cephalic integument and lidless, arms of the fourth pair
hectocotylized, and with an internal corneous gladius.

8. Loliginids.—The only known American family.

BE. SPrRULOIDEA or PHRAGMOPHORA.—Decaceres with eyes covered

ZOOLOGY. 603

by transparent skin and lidless, arms of the fourth pair hectocotylized,
and with an internal chambered shell or phragmacone.

This superfamily includes only one living family, but the extinct
Belemnitids, Belopterids, and Belosepiids have been associated with it
as constituents of a natural superfamily group.

9. Spirulids—Spiruloid Decaceres with the internal shell or phrag-
macone, an elongated chambered cone, wound in a loose coil of several
whorls.

This family is only represented, so far as known in the existing fauna,
by the genus Spirula, whose shell is so well known to all collectors, but
Professor Steenstrup has associated in the same family with it a genus
named Idiosepius. Idiosepius is destitute of a shell, but has a tendinous
support which is regarded as the homologue of ele a as well as the
gladius of Loligo.

fF. SEPIOLOIDEA.—Decaceres with eyes covered by a transparent skin,
but with false eyelids more or less free, arms of the first pair hectocotyl-
ized, and with the gladius corneous and rudimentary, or absent.

. 10. Sepiolids—The only known sepioloid decaceres.

The families of Octopod Dibranchiates.

The octopods in late years have been generally segregated into two
principal groups, (1) the pelagic, including the Argonautids and Philo-
nexids, and (2) thelittoral, embracing the Octopodids and Cirrhoteuthids.
But M. Fischer has proposed to differentiate them into two groups, dis-
tinguished by the development of one or more rows of suckers, the
‘“‘Cirrhoteuthide” and ‘‘Eledonide” having one row (‘‘monocotylea”),
and the Octopodidex, Tremoctopodide (Philonexids), and Argonautidze
having two or three (‘‘polycotylea”). Professor Verrill has made known
a “new” family (Alloposide), and admits the following:

Argonautids.—Octopods with an ovoid finless body, the two upper-
most arms (in female) expanded terminally into broad flattish vela-
menta which secrete a papery spiral single-chambered involute nautili-
form shell.

The family is specialized by the development of a shell, which serves
as an ovicapsule in the female. The male is very much smaller.

Philonexids or Tremoctopodids.—Octopods with ovoid finless body,
tapering arms moderately connected by membrane, and “edge of man-
tle united to the base of the siphon laterally by a button-like cartilage
fitting in a corresponding pit on the inner surface of the mantle.”

Alloposids.—Octopods with ovoid finless body, tapering arms con-
nected by a moderate web, and mantle “united directly to the head, not
only by a large dorsal commissure, but also by a median ventral and
two lateral longitudinal commissures, which run from its inner surface
to the basal parts of the siphon.”

This family has been constituted by Professor Verrill for a single
species (Alloposus mollis) discovered by Lieutenant Tanner, under the
(

604 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882.

auspices of the United States Fish Commission, in deep water (225 to
715 fathoms), in several places near the eastern coast.
Octopodids.—Octopods with an oval finless body, tapering arms little
connected by membrane, and ‘‘ mantle united to the head by a broad
dorsal commissure,” and without complex connection with the siphon.
The family is again subdivided by M. Fischer into two, (1) the Octopo-
didz with two or more rows of suckers, and (2) the Eledonide with a
single row of suckers. The common littoral cuttle-fishes are representa-
tive of the family.
Cirrhoteuthids.—Octopods with a rather long body, provided with
short lateral fins (one on each side), supported by internal cartilages,
and ‘¢ arms united nearly to the tips by a broad, umbrella-shaped mem-
brane or web.”
The umbrella-shaped anterior end is the most obvious characteristic.
It is always an arm of the third pair—generally the right, but some-
times the left—that becomes hectocotylized in the male, the hectocotyl-
ization varying in extent from the entire arm to the tip only.

Gigantic Cuttle-fishes.

In the last account of progress in zoology reference is made to Pro-
fessor Verrill’s studies of the gigantic cuttle-fishes, and it was stated
that two specimens of Architeuthis, the genus including the giants of
the class, had been found 52 feet long. But huge representatives of the
class have been found elsewhere than the North Atlantic Ocean, and
have been found to differ materially from the type of the genus Archi-
teuthis, although apparently not as much as has been supposed.

Professor Verrill has reviewed the conclusions formulated by Pro-
fessor Owen, in his ‘‘ Descriptions of some new and rare Cephalopods.”
The Enoploteuthis Cookii of Owen is the' Sepia unguiculata of Molina
(1810), and Hnoploteuthis moline of D’Orbigny (1845-48), and “ itis not
improbable” that it is also specifically identical with the Hnoploteuthis
Hartingii of Verrill (1880). The Plectoteuthis grandis of Owen is un-
questionably an Architeuthis, and the Ommastrephes ensifer is a Stheno-
teuthis, and probably the same as the S. pteropus of Bermuda. (A. J.
S. (3), v. 23, pp. 72-75.)

The host of giant cephalopods has also been added to from New Zea-
land. Mr. T. W. Kirk has described two from that region under the
names Architeuthis Verrilli and Steenstrupia Stockti. No generic differ-
ences have been signalized between the two, and Professor Verrill
would refer the so-called Steenstrupia to Architeuthis ‘* without much
hesitation, though the tentacular clubs, if known, might show some differ-
ences.” The species, however, ‘bear more resemblance to the small
squids, Ommastrephes and Loligo, than do the other large species hith-
erto discovered.” The A. Verrilli had a length for head and body of
9 feet 1 inch, and the tentacular arms were 25 feet long. The A. Stockii

ZOOLOGY 605

was correspondingly 11 feet 1 inch long, but the arms were shorter than
in the A. Verrilli. (Trans. New Zealand Inst., v. 14; A. J. S. (3), v.
24, p. 477.)
X. PROTOCHORDATES.
TUNICATES.
General.

Della Valle (A.). Nuove contribuzioni alla Storia naturale delle Ascidie composte
del golfo di Napoli. Con 10 tay. Atti R. Accad. Lincei, (3,) Mem. Cl. Fis., t.
10, pp. 431-498.

MeMurrich (J. Playfair). On the origin of the so-called ‘‘Test-cells” in the Ascidian
ovum. With1 pl. Studies from the Biolog. Laborat. Johns Hopkins Univers.,
v. 2, pp. 147-156.

Seeliger (Osw.). Zur Entwicklungsgeschichte der Ascidien. Kibildung und Knos
pung von Clavelina lepadiformis. Mit 3 Taf. Sitzgsber. kais. Acad. Wien, math-
nat. Cl., 1. Abth., 85. Bd., pp. 361-413.

Larvalia.
Lankester (E. Ray). The Vertebration of the Tail of Appendicularie. Quart. Journ.
Microsc. Sce., v. 22, pp. 387-390.
Teniobranchiates.
Brooks (W. K.). On the development of the ovain Salpa. With1 pl. Stud. Biolog.
Laborat. Johns Hopkins Univers., v. 2, pp. 301-313.
Grobben (Carl). Doliolum und sein Generationswechsel, nebst Bemerkungen tiber

den Generationswechsel der Acalephen, Cestoden und Trematoden. Mit 5 Taf.
Arbeit. Zoolog. Instit. Wien., 4. Bd., pp. 201-298.

Saccobranchiates.

Traustedt (M. P. A.). Vestindiske Ascidiz simplices. 1. Afd. (Phallusid@) tilligemed
indledende Bemerkninger om Skjzerheden hos Ascidize simplices i Almendelighed.
(Med 2tavl.) Vid. Meddel. Nat. Foren. Kjébenh., 1881, pp. 257-288.

The tail of Synascidian larva.

A new Synascidian generic type—Disdaplia—has been made known
by A. Della Valle, and the larva described. Inasmuch as one of the
most cogent arguments in favor of the relation of the Ascidians to the
Protovertebrates is based on the development of a vertebrated tail
in the early stage, what Della Valle has to say with reference to that
of Disdaplia is of general interest. The tail presents ‘an envelope
of cellulose, with amceboid nuclei, a membrane continuous with the
ectoderm, which is formed of large, flattened epithelial cells, a contrac-
tile layer of fusiform cells which are transversely striated, and the axis
of the tail, which is more transparent than the rest, and is occupied
by the hyaline cylinder, which is, according to some, a solid cartilagi-
nous notochord. The author, however, like some other writers, finds
that this axial structure is a hollow tube, the wall of which is continu-
ous with that of the peritoneal sac.” (J. R. M.S., (2,) v. 2, p. 768, from
Arch. Ital. de Biol., 1882, t. 1, pp. 193-203.)

Cycles of Tunicates.

The cycles of development of various types of Tunicates has been
presented in a convenient tabular synopsis by Dr. Carl Grobben, in
¢
606 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882.

which “A” represents a sexual generation, ‘“‘ B” an asexual one, ‘M”
the median, and “ L” the lateral buds:

Synascidizx. Pyrosoma. Salpa. Doliolam.
AB AB A A
Laie N 1
\ ) | |
B AB B AB B B
Patna DA eR |
AB B AB AB B AB uN, [Ay Mi
A

XI. VERTEBRATES.
General.

Wiedersheim (R.). Lehrbuch der vergleichenden Anatomie der Wirbelthiere auf
Grundlage der Entwicklungsgeschichte bearbeitet. 1. Th. Jena, G. Fischer,
1882. (8vo, xii, 476 pp. M. 12.)

Faunas.

Mela (A. J.). Vertebrata Fennica, sive Fauna animalium vertebratorum regionis
Fennicaz naturalis. Suomen Luurankoiset, eli Luonnontietoellisen Suomen
Luurankois-Eliinuist6. Helsingissi (Helsingfors), Holm, 1882. (8vo, xi, 386 pp.

10 pl.
Teeth.

Baume (Rob.). Odontologische Forschungen. 1. Th. Versuch einer Entwickelungs-
geschichte des Gebisses. Mit 97 Holzschn. 1882 (8vo, vii, 307 pp., M. 13.); 2. Th.
Die Defecte der harten Zahnsubstanzen. Mit 55 Holzschn. Leipzig, A. Felix,
1882. (8vo. M. 8.)

Nervous system.

Stilling (J.). Untersuchungen iiber den Bau der optischen Centralorgane. 1. Theil.
Chiasma und Tractus opticus. Mit 10 lith. Taf. Kassel und Berlin, Th. Fischer,
1882. (4to., vii, 87 pp., 10 Bl. Tafelerkl. M. 24.)

FISH-LIKE VERTEBARTES.
Nervous system.

Cattie (J. Th.). Recherches sur la glande pinéale (Epiphysis cerebri) des Plagio-
stomes, des Ganoides et des Téléosteens. Avec 3 pl. Archiv. de Biolog., t. 3, pp.
101-194.

Electric organs.

Du Bois Reymond (Emil). Vorliufiger Bericht iiber die von Prof Gustav Fritsch in
Aegypten angestellten neuen Untersuchungen an electrischen Fischen. Mona-
tsber. k. Akad. Wiss., Berlin, 4881, pp. 1149-1164, 1882.

Bye. i

Berger (E.). Beitriige zur Anatomie des Sehorgans der Fische. Mit 2 Taf. Morphol,
Jahrb., 8. Bd., pp. 97-168.

ZOOLOGY. 607

Faunas.
(North America. )

Bean (Tarleton H.). Notes on Fishes collected by Capt. Chas. Bendire, in Washington
Territory and Oregon, May to October, 1381. Proc. U.S. Nat. Mus., v.5, pp. 89-93.

Jordan (David S.) and Charles H. Gilbert. Catalogue of the Fishes collected by Mr.
John Xantus, at Cape San Lucas, which are in the U.S. National Museum, with
descriptions of eight new species. Proc. U.S. Nat. Mus., v.5, pp. 353-371.

( Asia.)

Karoli (Janos). Prodromus Piscium Asiz orientalis a domino Joa. Xantus annis
1868-70 collectorum. Termész Fiizetek, v. 5, pp. 147-187.
Note.—A nominal list of 625 species.

(Hurope. )

Day (Francis). The Fishes of Great Britain and Ireland. Part 4-5. London, Wil-
liams & Norgate, 1882. 8vo. v. 1, pp. 241-240, pl. 69-93; v. 2, pp. 1-96, pl. 94-106.

Fatio(V.). Faune des Vertébrés de la Suisse. Vol. iv. Histoire Naturelle des Poissons,
1, partie. Geneve et Bale, 1882. (8vo. 786 pp., 5 pl.)

(Africa. )

Guimaraes (Antonio Rob. Pereira). Lista dos Peixes da Maderia, Acores e dos pos-
sessoes portuguezas d’Africa, que existem no museu de Lisboa. Supplemento.
Jorn. Sc. Math., Phys. e Nat. Acad. Se. Lisb., v. viii, pp. 30-39.

Rochebrune (A. T. de). Faune de Sénégambie. Poissons. Act. Soc. Linn. Bordeaux, t.
vi. pp. 37-180, pl. 1-6.

(Australia. )

Macleay (William). Descriptive catalogue of the Fishes of Australia. Proc. Linn,
Soc. N. S. Wales (Sydney). Part 3, v. 6, pp. 1-138, pl. 1-2 (Sp. 544-801); Part 4,
pp. 202-387 (Sp. 802-1133).

Contribution to a knowledge of the Fishes of New Guinea. Proc. Linn.

Soe. N. S. Wales, v. 7, pp. 224-250 (Sp. 1-120); pp. 351-366 (Sp. 121-196); pp.

585-598 (Sp. 197-274).

Fossil fishes.

Kramberger-Gorjanovie (Drag.), Die jungtertiire Fischfauna Croatiens. 1. Theil.
Beitr. z. Paliontol. Osterr.-Ungarns von Mojsisovics und Neumayr, 2. Bd., 3.
Hft., pp. 86-88; 2. Theil. Lbid., 4. Hft., pp. 89-135.

Australian fishes.

A signal service has been done for ichthyologists by Mr. William
Macleay, in his catalogue of Australian fishes. It appears therefrom
that 1,133 nominal species (exclusive of many doubtless overlooked by
him) are found in the waters that surround Australia and the neigh-
boring islands, or which traverse its interior. This compares not un-
favorably with the fish-faunas of other regions, and is not much inferior
to those of the United States and the higher north, wherein about
1,500 species have been discovered. The proportions between the fresh-
water and marine forms are very different, however, for the two hemi-
spheres. The North American streams and lakes swarm with species,
608 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR. 1882.

and contribute well nigh 40 per cent. of the total, while Australia is
exceptionally poor, and has a very small percentage of fresh-water fishes.
Even the few fluviatile forms are ill understood, but it is not at all likely
that any have intimate relations with types of the northern hemisphere,
although several genera have been associated in a very heterogeneous
group (“ Grystina”), of which the Black Bass of America has been taken
as a type. Another element that must be considered in a comparison
of the respective faunas is the number of ill-defined and doubtful species
that have been introduced into the southern fauna, and which Mr. Maec-
leay has evidently been unable to examine and refer to their proper
categories. But, making all such allowances, the marine fish-faunas of
Australia are very rich, and the number of species surpass those of the
North American marine regions. It is lamentable that many genera
will have to carry, as long as the present rules of nomenclature prevail,
names commencing with “Neo,” an anachronism that neophytes in
science and nomenclature might be expected to be guilty of, but which
good naturalists have also shared, so misleading is a bad example.

The fresh-water-types of Australia are more numerous than have been
supposed. As recently as 1880, Dr. Giinther only admitted 36 species,
including therein two “ brackish-water” forms, and only three peculiar
generic types—Ceratodus, Nannoperca, and Macquaria. Mr. Macleay
greatly increases the list. They are named and arranged by him as
follows:

Percide.—Lates (5 of 8 sp.), Breviperca (1 sp.), Bostockia (1 sp.), Ede-
lia (2 sp.), Acanthoperca (1 sp.), Nannoperca (2 sp.), Gulliveria (2 sp.), —
Oligorus (2 sp.), Ctenolates (properly Plectroplites, 3 sp.), Murrayia (4
sp.), Riverina (1 sp.), Dules (7. e., Kuhlia or Moronopsis, 1 sp.), Macquaria
(1 sp.), Lherapon (10 of 16 sp.).

Trachinide.—Aphritis (1 sp.).

Gobtide.— Gobius (several sp.), Eleotris (several sp.), Aristeus (4 sp.).

Blenniide.—Blennius (several sp.), Cristiceps (1 of 16 sp.).

Atherinide.—Atherinichthys (2 of 7 sp.), Nematocentris (7. e., Melano-
tenia, 1 sp.), Neoatherina (1 sp.).

Mugilide.—Mugil (several sp.), Agonostoma (1 of 2 sp.).

Ophiocephalida.—Ophiocephalus (1 sp. 2).

Gadopsidw.—Gadopsis (1 sp.).

Pleuronectida.—Arnoglossus (1 sp.), Rhombosolea (1 of 2 sp.), Synap-
tura (1 sp.).

Siluride.—Plotosus (5 sp.), Copidoglanis (1 of 4 sp.), Neostlurus (1 sp.),
Cainosilurus (1 sp.), Ewmeda (1 sp.), Arius (1 of 6 sp.).

Haplochitonide.—Prototroctes (1 sp.).

Salmonide.— Retropinna (1 sp.).

Galaxide.—Galaxias (17 sp.).

Cyprinide.—Leuciscus (22 1 sp.).

Osteoglosside.—Osteoglossum (1 sp.).

ZOOLOGY. 609

Clupeide.—Chatoessus (2 sp.), Clupea (several sp.), Brisbania (1 sp.),
Megalops (1 sp.).
Murenide.—Anguilla (2 sp.).
.—Ceratodus (2 sp.).
———.—Ompaz (1 sp.).
Petromyzontide.—Geotria (3 sp.); Yarra (1 sp.).

The most noteworthy facts shown by this list are (1) the paucity of
specialized fresh-water types, and (2) the affinity of the majority of the
forms to marine types. The only known special fresh-water families
are five—the Gadopsids, the Haplochitonids, the Galaxiids, the Osteo-
glossids, and the Ceratodontids—and each of these is represented by
only one or two species, except the Galaxiids, of which 17 have been
found. One Galaxiid, at least, occurs in the high mountainous streams.
The affinities of most of the peculiar genera are quite uncertain. It is,
however, almost certain that none of the species belong to the same
families as the Northern Perches (Percids) and Black Bass (Grystina or
Centrarchids). Although some of the forms enumerated may be re-
garded as anadromous or simply excursionists from the sea, many, al-
though very closely related to sea-fishes, have evidently become true
fresh-water forms. For example, in a collection later obtained by Mr.
Macleay from “the head-waters of Palmer River, cut off by numerous
falls from the lower part of the river,” were species of Therapon, Ele-
otris, Aristeeus, Synaptura, Neosilurus, and Chatoessus. ‘These are there-
fore claimed to be “ fresh-water fishes in the strictest sense of the term.”
(Proc. Linn. Soc. N. S. Wales, v. 7, p. 69; see also v. 3, pp. 15, 41, 140.)

Lest it may be deemed that there is an incongruity between the state-
ment that there are only five fresh-water family types of Australian
fishes and the family types indicated, it will be pertinent to add that
the so-called Cyprinide are evidently not members of that family, and
‘““ Ompax” is only known from a figure drawn from memory by a person
without any knowledge of ichthyology.

CLASS OF LEPTOCARDIANS.

Rohon (Jos. Vict.). Untersuchungen itiber Amphioxus lanceolatus. Ein Beitrag zur
vergleichenden Anatomie der Wirbelthiere. Denkschr. d. math.-nat. Cl. Akad.
Wien, 45. Bd. (64 pp.)

CLASS OF MYZONTS.

Dohrn (Anton). Studien zur Urgeschichte des Wirbelthierkérpers. III. Die Enste-
hung der Hypophysis bei Petromyzon Planeri. Mittheil. Zool. Station zu Nea-
pel, 4. Bd., pp. 172-189, pl. 18.

Die Entstehung der Hypophysis bei Petromyzon Planeri. Zool. Anz., 5.
Jahrg., pp. 587-588. (Nature, v. 27, p. 91.)

Rohon (Jos. Vict.). Ueber den Ursprung des Nervus acusticus bei Petromyzonten.
Mit. 2Taf. Sitzgsber. Wien. Akad., Math.-nat Cl.,1. Abth. 85. Bd., pp. 245-267.

Development of the pituitary body of the Lampreys.

The pituitary body or hypophysis, it has been claimed by Dr. W.

B. Scott, originates in a very peculiar manner in the Lamprey; but
H. Mis. 26——39
610 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882.

so anomalous would be the origin alleged, the statement has been
regarded with skepticism. Prof. Anton Dohrn has recently studied
the subject, and he thinks “the question is solved” by him, but in a
way different from what either Balfour or Scott supposed. ‘The hy-
pophysis arises rather as an independent depression of the ectoderm
between the depressions for the nose and the mouth. Its connection
with the nasal depression is only secondary, and is caused by the strong
and early development of the upper lip. It has no connection with the
mouth depression, because the upper lip develops between the mouth
depression and the hypophysis.” (Nature, Noy. 23, 1882.)

CLASS OF SELACHIANS.

General.

Hasse (C.). Das natiirliche System der Elasmobranchier auf Grundlage des Baues
und der Entwicklung ihrer Wirbelsiiule. Unter Mitwirkung der Herren G, Born,
H. Strasser und Ph. Stéhr. Besonderer Theil. 2.-3. Lief. Mit28Taf. Jena, G.
Fischer, 1882 (4to).

Koster (W.) and C. K. Hoffman. Rapport over eene Verhandeling van den Heer Dr.
J. W. Van Wijhe, getiteld: ‘‘Ueber die Mesodermsegmente und die Entwick-
lung der Nerven des Selachierkopfes.” Versl. en Mededeel. K. Akad. Amster-

dam, 18. D. pp. 71-85.
Raie.

DuBois Reymond (E.). Ona new principle affecting the systematic distribution of
the family of the Torpedinide. Nature, v.26, p. 492.

Weyl (Th.). Die Siulenzahl im elektrischen Organ von Torpedo oculata, Centralbl.
f. d. med. Wiss., 1882, No. 16.

Electric organ of the Torpedos.

The number of columns in the battery of the Torpedo fishes is of
specific value, according to Prof. Du Bois Reymond. The eastern Ameri-
can species (Torpedo occidentalis) has a very large number, and by this
character has been claimed as a British fish. Professor Babuchin, of
Moscow, has demonstrated that the electric organs are developed by the
metamorphosis of striated muscle, and that the columns do not increase
in number with age, but by the growth of the individual columns.

CLASS OF FISHES PROPER,

Osseous system.

Grassi (B.). Beitriige zur niiheren Kenntniss der Entwicklung der Wirbelsiule der
Teleostier. (Auszug.) Morphol. Jahrb., 8. Bd., pp. 457-473.

Kostler (M.). Ueber Knochenverdickungen am Skelette von Knochenfischen. Mit 1
Taf. Zeitschr. f. wiss. Zool., 37. Bd., pp. 429-456.

Rautenfeld (E. von). Morphologische Untersuchungen iiber das Skelet der hinteren
Gliedmassen von Ganoiden und Teleostiern. Mit 2 Taf., u. 13in den Text gedruck-
ten Figuren. Inaug. Diss. Dorpat, 1882. (8vo., 47 pp., M. 150.)

Stohr (Phil.) Zur Entwicklungsgeschichte der Kopfskelets der Teleostier. Mit1
Taf. Festschr. z Feier d. 300. jihr. Bestehens d. Jul. Max. Universitit Wiirz-
burg, 1882.

ZOOLOGY. 611

Visceral skeleton.

Wijhe (J. W. von). Ueber das Visceralskelet und die Nerven des Kopfes der Ganoiden
und von Ceratodus. Mit2Taf. Niederliind. Arch. f. Zool., 5. Bd., pp. 207-320.

Nervous system.

Rabl-Ruckhard (C.). Zur Deutung und Entwicklung des Gehirns der Knochenfische,
Mit 2 Taf. Arch. f. Anat. und Entwicklgsgesch., 1882, pp. 111-137.

Eye.

Zelinka (Carl). Die Nerven der Cornea der Knochenfische und ihre Endigung im
Epithel. Mit2Taf. Arch. f. mikroskop. Anat., 21. Bd., pp. 202-239.

Vascular system.

Kasem-Beck und J. Dogiel. Beitrag zur Kenntnis der Struktur und der Funktion
des Herzens der Knochenfische. Zeitschr. f. wiss. Zool., 37. Bd., pp. 247-262, pl.

15, 16.
Kidneys.

Emery (Carlo). Etudes sur le développement et la morphologie du rein des poissons
osseux. Avecl pl. Arch. ital. biol., t. 2, pp. 185-145.

Balfour (F. M.). On the nature of the organ in adult Teleosteans and Ganoids, which
is usually regarded as the Head, Kidney, or Pronephros. Quart. Journ. Mice. Se.,
n. 8, V. 22, pp. 12-16, Jan., 1882.

Embryology.

Agassiz (Alexander). On the young stages of Osseous Fishes. Part III. With 20
pl. Proc. Amer. Acad. Arts and Sc., v. 17, pp. 271-303.

Gensch (Hugo). Das secundiire Entoderm und die Blutbildung beim Ei der Knochen-
fische. Mit 2 Holzschn.-Taf. Inaug.-Diss. Kénigsberg, Beyer in Comm., 1882
(8vo., 29 pp. M. 1).

Hoffmann (C. K.). Zur Ontogenie der Knochenfische. Fortsetzung. Mit 4 Taf.
Natuurkund. Verhandl. Akad. Amsterdam, D. 23. (60 pp.)

Hybridity.

Leuckart (Rudolf). Ueber Bastardfische. Berlin, Nicolaische Verlags-Buchhd., 1882.
(8vo., 9 pp. M. 50.)
Fish poisons.

Thomson (Carl). Untersuchungen eines aus West-Africa stammenden Fischgiftes.
Inaug. Diss. Dorpat (Karow), 1882. (8vo., 39 pp. M. 1.)

Special orders.
Dipnoi.

Beauregard (H.). Encéphale et nerfs craniens du Ceratodus. Aveci1pl. Journ. do
YAnat. et dela Physiol. par Robin et Pouchet, 17. Ann., pp. 230-242.

Haswell (William A.). On the structure of the Paired Fins of Ceratodus, with re-
marks on the general theory of the vertebrate limb. With1 pl. Proc. Linn. Soc.
N.S. Wales, v. 7, pp. 2-12.

F (Rhomboganoidei. )

Balfour (F. M.)and W.N. Parker. On the Structure and Development of Lepidosteus.
Proc. R. Soc. London, v. 33, pp. 112--119.

Parker (W. K.). On the development of the skull in Lepidosteus ossous. Proc.
R. Soc. London, v. 33, pp. 107-112.
612 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882.

(Apodes.)

Goode (G. Brown). Notes on the life-history of the Eel, chiefly derived from a study
of recent European authorities. Bull. U. 8S. Fish Comm., v. 4, pp. 71--124.

Hermes (O.). On the mature sexual organs of the Conger-eel (Conger vulgaris), with
some observations on the male of the common eel (Anguilla vulgaris Flem.). Bull.
U. S. Fish Comm., v. 4, pp. 126-130.

Pauly (Aug.). Beitrag zur Anatomie der Schwimmblase des Aals (Anguilla fluviatilis
Fl.). Dissert. (pro venia leg.). Miinchen, 1882. (8°, 22 pp.).

Weyenbergh (H.) Morphologische Aanteekeningen over de Proest-alen of Sym-
branchide. Met1pl. Periodico Zoolog., t. 3, pp. 278-308.

(Bventognathi.)

Noll (F. C.). Ein achtunddreissigjihriger Karpfen. Zool. Garten, 23. Jahrg., pp.
225-234.
(Haplomi.)

Hermann (Otto). Umbracanina. Mit 1 Taf. Termész. Fiizetek, 5. Bd., p. 275.

Ké4roli (J.). Umbra canina Mars. Termész. Fiizeték, 5. Bd., pp. 274-275.

Walther (Johann). Die Entwicklung der Deckknochen am Kopfskelet des Hechtes
(Esox lucius). Mit 2 Taf. Jena. Zeitschr. f. Naturwiss., 16. Bd., pp. 59-87.

(Hemibranchii.)

Ryder (J. A.). Notes on the development, spinning habits, and structure of the four-
spined Stickleback, Apeltes quadracus. Bull. U. S. Fish Comm., v. 4, pp. 24-29.

(Jugulares. )

Emery (Carlo). Contribuzioni all’ Ittiolgia. (III. Aggiunte alla sinonimia e alla
storia naturale dei Fierasfer ; IV. Sulle cordizioni di vita di giovani individui del
Tetragonurus Cuvieri.] Mittheil. zool. Station Neapel, 3. Bd., pp. 281-283.

Parker (T. Jeffery). Connection of the air-bladder with the auditory organs in the
Red Cod (Lotella bacchus). New Zeal. Journ. of Sc., v. 1, pp. 185-186.

The kidney of fishes.

The Ganoid and Teleost—that is, all true fishes—have in their larval
stage “two very distinct excretory organs, viz, a pronephros or head-
kidney, and a mesonephros or Wolffian body, which are usually sepa-
rated from each other by a more or less considerable interval.” It has
been contended that the pronephros is especially, and sometimes, even,
as in Lophius, exclusively developed as the kidney in fishes; but prior
to the discovery of the development of the pronephros, as well as
mesonephros, ‘it was a matter of no very great importance to know
whether the anterior part of the so-called kidney was a true excretory
organ. In the present state of our knowledge the question is, however,
one of considerable interest.” Professor Balfour, consequently, investi-
gated the morphology of the organ in several types of fishes—the Stur-
geon, Bony Gar, Smelt, Pike, Eel, and Angler. He was led to the con-
clusion that the pronephros becomes atrophied, and probably never
persists in either the Ganoids or Teleosts, but “is always a purely
larval organ, which never constitutes an active part of the excretory

ZOOLOGY. 613

system in the adult state.” This conclusion, it is held, adds “ proba-
bility to the view of Gegenbaur that the pronephros is the primitive
excretory gland of the Chordata (7. e., the Vertebrates and Tunicates);
and that the mesonephros or Wolffian body, by which it is replaced in
existing Ichthyopsida, is phylogenetically a more recent organ.”

Echiodon and Tetrogonurus commensal fishes.

Professor Emery, as new *‘ Contributions to Ichthyology,” has recorded
the fact that the Hchiodon dentatus (or Fierasfer dentatus) forces itself
upon Holothurians as a guest, like the typical Fierasfer. A small speci-
men of the species’ was found in a Holuthuria nebulosa at Naples in the
summer of 1881.

Professor Emery also found three young specimens of Tetragonurus
cuvieri in the respiratory cavity of a large Salpa caught in the Gulf of
Naples in the spring of 1880. It has been stated that young Tetrogo-
nuri also associate with Medusze. (See Giinther’s Introduction to the
Study of Fishes, p. 501.)

The electrical organ of the Electric Eel.

The electrical organ of the South American Electric Eel—Electro-
phorus (or Gymnotus) electricus—has been studied by Dr. G. Fritsch, and
his results are described in the great work of Sachs and DuBois Rey-
mond on that fish. That the electric organ is developed from striated
muscle is evident, inter alias, from the fact that a common fascia sur-
rounds the organ and inferior lateral muscles; the electric organ, in
fact, is the modified superior muscle. It is also noteworthy that there
is a remarkable variation in the number of electrical columns, a range
between 50 and 100 occurring. The Electric Eel thus contrasts markedly
with the Torpedo, in which the number of columns is constant for the
species. (J. R. M.S. (2), v. 2, p. 602.)

Determining cause of the coastward movement of the Herring.

The movements of the Herring coastward, concerning which there has
been so much speculation, is believed by O. J. Broch to result from the
assemblage of the small animals on which it feeds in the summer and
autumn. These animalcules live in immense numbers at or near the
surface, and their distribution is supposed to be regulated chiefly by
the predominant winds and currents. The course of the Herring toward
the coast in the spawning season will therefore depend on the locality
of the last feeding grounds.

Mortality among the Tile-jish.

The remarkable history of the Tile-fish closes, for the present, with
au extraordinary climax. This fish, the Lopholatilus chamcleonticeps,
@ species sometimes attaining a weight of 50 pounds, or even more,
614 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882.

remained unknown till obtained through the intervention of the United
States Fish Commission in 1879. It was then found in great numbersat a
depth of about 75 to 150 fathoms, and as it was so large and also savory,
promised to become a species of considerable economical importance.
But in 1882 a great mortality among fishes occurred in March, in the
North Atlantic, chiefly on the borders of the Gulf Stream and southwest
of St. George’s Bank, extending at least from latitude 37° to 40°, and
longitude 71° to 73° 10’. Numerous accounts of the phenomenon have
appeared in the newspapers; but there is a deficiency of exact recorded
data. It has been stated that a number of different kinds of fishes were
affected, but from the imperfect indications it is at least probable that the
Tile-fish was the principal sufferer. The fishes were seen floating upon
the surface of the water, and various vessels sailed through miles and
miles of them—in some places “fully fifty dead fish” occurring in an area
equal to the cabin space of a vessel. Of course many hypotheses have
been broached to account for the fatality, but they all lack foundation
or require verification. The United States Commissioner of Fish and
Fisheries has suggested that ‘it is possible, their appearance being
almost concurrent with, or but slightly subsequent to, the great storm
off George’s Bank,” that this may have been in some way the cause ot
the mortality. In order to ascertain the effect of this mortality in the
haunts of the Tile-fish, special search was made where it was formerly
so abundant, but not a single specimen was obtained.

AMPHIBIANS.
General.

Peters (W.). Amphibien von Mossambique. Naturwissenschaftliche Reise nach Mos-
sambique, 1842-48, etc. Zoologie. III. Berlin, 1882. (fol. Mit 28 color. und 5
schwarz. Taf. M. 80.)

Gradientia or Urodela.

Boulenger (George Albert). Catalogue of the Batrachia Gradientia s. Caudata and
Batrachia Apoda in the collection of the British Museum. 2d ed. London, 1882.
(8vo, viii, 127 pp., 9 pl.)

Gasco (F.). Les amours des Axolotls. Bull. Soc. Zool. France, 6. ann., pp. 151-162,

Parker (W. K.). On the Structure and Development of the Skull in the Urodeles.
With 6 pl. Trans. Zool. Soc. London, v. xi, pp. 171-214.

Salientia or Anura.

Boulenger (George Albert). Catalogue of the Batrachia Salientia s. Ecaudata in the
collection of the British Museum. 2d ed. London. 1882, (8vo, xvi, 503 pp., 30
pl.—£1 10s.)

Peters (W.). Ueber Batrachier, insbesondere iiber die so eben verdffentlichte zweite
Auflage des Catalogs der Batrachia salientia s. ecaudata des British Museum von
Herrn G. A. Boulenger. Sitzgsber. Ges. nat. Fr. Berlin, 1882, pp. 60-62.

Yung (Emile). De Vinfluence des milieux physico-chimiques sur les étres vivants:
influence des différentes espéces d’aliments sur le développement de la grenouille
(Rana esculenta). Arch. sc. phys. et nat., Genéve (3), t. 7, pp. 225-261.

ZOOLOGY. 615
Number of Amphibians.

The last enumeration of the Amphibians by Mr. Boulenger shows that
nearly a thousand species are known. Nine hundred and thirty-three
species “are described” in the catalogues of the Batrachia salientia,
gradientia, and apoda of the British Museum. The progress of our ac-
quaintance since the commencement of the century with the Amphib-
ians. so far as numbers at least are concerned, may be seen from the
followmg tabular synopsis:

Daudin. | D. & B. B. M Boul.

Amphibians. 1802-3. | 1842-54. | 1850-’58. | 1882.
(Chminmr(ape Ly Bt = Soe ac oecebengrogce Sonone Seca sboossascdesesese 4 8* 9t 32
Giradientia=-2o-- can cects cameo deca tawece Jee ccleleesciecemccelcme 16 58t 63 101
piientiasisee= 45 uote PEERED ie Be iY See 75 164+ 2836 | 800
95

230 | 355 933
*Duméril & Bibron, 1842. tDuméril & Bibron, t. 9, 1854. } Gray, 1850. § Giimther, 1858.
The Apodal Amphibians.

The known apodal Amphibians do not exhibit sufficient differences
among themselves to necessitate subdivisions of more than generic im-
portance, and all have been retained in one family—the Ceciliids. Some,
however, have “ cycloid imbricated scales imbedded in the skin,” and
others are naked; some again have “eyes distinct or concealed under
the skin,” and in others the eyes are ‘“ below the cranial bones.” Tenta-
cles are developed between the nostrils and eyes, or below them, and
their modifications of structure have afforded the means of defining a
number of genera. Mr. Boulenger has admitted 11 genera, and recog-
nizes 32 species; South America has 21 species, Africa 5, and India 5.

Families of Urodele Amphibians.

The families of Gradient or Urodele Amphibians admitted by Mr.
Boulenger are much more comprehensive than those generally adopted
by naturalists in the United States, who have accepted those established
by Professor Cope. Only four are admitted, Salamandride (with four
subfamilies), Amphiumide, Proteidw, and Sirenide, and the charac-
ters employed to differentiate two of them at least appear to contrast
strangely with those which are subordinated to them; thus, the Sala-
mandrids and Amphiumids are only differentiated because the former
have “eyelids developed” and the latter ‘“‘no eyelids.” The relations
the Boulengerian families bear to the Copean may be seen from the fol-
lowing exhibit:

I. CADUCIBRANCHIATA Cope, = (Salamandride + Amphiumide B.)
Gradients with “no gills in the perfect state, maxillaries present, both.
jaws toothed”. (B.)

1 a. Salamandrids=Salamandride Salamandrine pt. B. Caduci;
616 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882.

branchiates with “palatine teeth in two longitudinal series diverging
behind, inserted on the inner margin of two palatine processes, which
are much prolonged posteriorly; parasphenoid toothless; vertebrae
opisthoceelian” (B), and with “no postfronto-squamosal arch or liga-
ment”. (C.)

1a. Pleurodelidids = Salamandride Salamandrine pt. B. Caduci-
branchiates with ‘palatine teeth in two longitudinal series diverging
behind, inserted on the inner margin of two palatine processes, which are
much prolonged posteriorly; parasphenoid toothless” (B.), and “with a
postfrontal arch, sometimes ligamentous”. (C.)

1b. Amblystomids=Salamandridze Amblystomatine pt. B. Caduci-
branchiates with “series of palatine teeth transverse or posteriorly con-
verging, inserted on the hinder margin or posterior portion of the
vomers; parasphenoid toothless; vertebra amphiccelian” (B.), and with
‘‘nalatines not prolonged over parasphenoid, bearing teeth on the pos-
terior portion”. (C.)

1b. Hynobiids = Salamandride Amblystomatine pt. B. Caduci-
branchiates with “series of palatine teeth transverse or posteriorly con-
verging, inserted on the hinder margin or posterior portion of the
vomers; parasphenoid toothless; vertebra amphiccelian” (B.), and with
‘‘nalatines in contact prolonged over parasphenoid, bearing teeth on
posterior external margin”. (C.)

Le. Plethodontids =Salamandride Plethodontine B. Caducibran-
chiates, with ‘series of palatine teeth transverse on posterior portion
of vomers; dentigerous plates on parasphenoid; vertebree amphiccelian.”
(B.)

1d. Desmognathids=Salamandridz Desmognathine pt. B. Caduci-
branchiates with “series of palatine teeth transverse, on posterior por-
tion of vomers; dentigerous plates on parasphenoid; vertebra opistho-
celian” (B.); with the parasphenoid teeth in two elongate patches, and
with the tongue free laterally and behind.

1d. Thoriids=Salamandridze Desmognathine pt. B. Caducibranchi-
ates, with ‘‘series of palatine teeth transverse, on posterior portion of
vomers; dentigerous plates on parasphenoid; vertebrae opisthocelian”
(B.); with the parasphenoid teeth in a single patch and with the tongue
free all around and attached only by a central pedicel.

2. Protonopsids=Amphiumide pt. B. Caducibranchiates without
eyelids, with teeth on anterior margin of palatine bones; no dentigerous
plates on parasphenoid; vertebre amphicelian; “‘no anterior axial
cranial bone;” parietals and prefrontals prolonged, meeting and embrac-
ing frontals; wall of vestibule membranous internally; premaxillaries
separated; occipital condyles sessile; and with weli-developed limbs.

2. Amphiumids=Amphiumide pt. B. Caducibranchiates without
eyelids, with teeth on the outer anterior margin of palatines, no dentig-
erous plates on parasphenoid; vertebrae amphiccelian; ‘an axial cranial
bone (? vomer) in front of orbitosphenoids, and one forming palatal sur-

ZOOLOGY. 617

face in front of palatines;” parietal prolonged laterally, not reaching
prefrontals; vestibule wall osseous internally; premaxillaries consoli-
dated; occipital condyles on cylindrical pedestal, and with rudimentary
limbs.

II. PROTEIDA Miiller, Cope. Gradients with ‘external gills persis-
tent throughout life, maxillaries absent, intermaxillaries and mandible
toothed ;” palatine and pterygoid bones developed, and orbito-sphenoid
elongate and not entering into palate (C).

5. Proteids. The only existing family with two genera
Necturus.

II. TRAcHYSTOMATA Miiller, Cope. Gradients with “external gills
persistent throughout life; maxillaries absent; intermaxillaries and
mandible toothless ;” palatines and pterygoids undeveloped, and orbito-
sphenoids large, anterior and forming part of palate (C).

4, Sirenids. The only family with two American genera—Siren and
Pseudobranchus.

Proteus and

The transformation of the Mexican Azolotl.

It has long been recognized that the Mexican Axolotl represented
exactly the larval condition of the North American Amblystome, but
as the Amblystoma form had not been obtained in Mexico, it has been
suggested that the Axolotl of that country might never attain the com-
plete condition, and that in fact, in its native state, it might exemplify
a condition of arrested development perpetuated by its power to propa-
gate in an immature stage. A Mexican naturalist has, however, dis-
covered that the Amblystoma form is found and well known around the
lakes in which the Axolotl occurs, and that it is even known to the
people by a name of Aztec origin meaning land Axolotl. The fully
developed form has been found about the lakes Santa Isabel, Xochi-
mileo, Chaleo, and Zumpango, the last of which is about sixteen leagues
north of the city of Mexico. Mr. Velasco has recorded his observations
in the Mexican periodical called ‘“‘La Naturaleza,” and an abstract is
given in the American Naturalist (v. 16, xvi, p. 9138).

Families of Anuwrans.

The arrangement of this order was in inextricable confusion till the
key was found by Professor Cope, in 1865, in sternal characters. To
the principal of these characters—the manner of connection at the mid-
dle—Mr. Boulenger attaches even greater importance than Professor
Cope. The order has been primarily divided into two suborders, the
Phaneroglossa and the Aglossa, and the former are differentiated into
‘* sections,” the Firmisternia and the Arcifera, the former including the
*suborders” Raniformia, Firmisternia, and Gastrechmia of Cope, and
the latter his suborders Bufoniformia and Arcifera. Mr. Boulenger’s
arrangement, so far, appears to be very natural; but he has paid no
further attention to sternal or other anatomical characters to distinguish
618 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882.

the families, although he uses them for minor groups. As Professor
Cope’s views have been generally accepted in the United States, the fol-

lowing summary of Mr. Boulenger’s views, compared with Professor
Cope’s, may be of interest, Mr. Boulenger’s families being indicated by
Roman figures, and those adopted in conformity with Professor Cope’s

views being distinguished by the numbers in parentheses, and the de-
scriptive portions also in parentheses:

Suborder I. PHANEROGLOSSA.—Salients with the eustachian tubes
separated, and with a tongue.

Section A. FIRMISTERNIA.—Phaneroglossates with ‘coracoids firmly
united by a simple epicoracoid cartilage; precoracoids, if present, rest-
ing with their distal extremity upon the coracoids, or connected with
the latter by the epicoracoid cartilage.”

1 (1). Ranids.—Firmisternials with premaxillary and maxillary teeth,
with subeylindrical sacral diapophyses, with precoracoids, and with an
‘¢ omosternum.”

This is by far the most extensive of the Anurans, comprising, accord-
ing to Mr. Boulenger, and including the doubtful ones, 286 species.
It is represented in North America, Eurasia, India, Africa, South
America, and Australia.

(2). Colostethids.—Firmisternials with premaxillary and maxillary
teeth, with subcylindrical diapophyses, and with precoracoids, but
without an “ omosternum.”

Only one species has been referred to this family—the Colostethus
latinasus of Colombia.

Il. Dendrobatids.—Firmisternials without teeth, with subcylindrical
sacral diapophyses, and with precoracoids.

Seven species of Dendrobates from South America, 3 of Mantella from
Madagascar, and (doubtfully) 1 of Stumpffia, also from Madagascar,
have been placed in this family.

Ill (1). Phryniscids (Engystomatide, § I, Boulenger).—Firmisterni-
als without teeth in upper jaw, with dilated sacral diapophyses, with
precoracoids, and the coracoids nearly parallel with the precoracoids.

Twenty-five species of this section have been recognized by Mr.
Boulenger, some of which are Oriental, but most are South American.

(2). Engystomids (Engystomatide, § 11, Boulenger).—Firmisternials
without teeth in upper jaw, with dilated sacral diapophyses, and with-
out precoracoids.

Twenty-three species are attributed to the genera constituting this
family by Mr. Boulenger; the typical are South America, but most in-
habit the oriental region.

(3). Brevicepitids (Engystomatide, § HI, Boulenger).—Firmister-
nials without upper jaw teeth, with dilated sacral diapophyses, with
precoracoids; the coracoids directed moderately backwards and much
dilated forwards on the epicoracoid cartilage.

ZOOLOGY. 619

Four African species of the type are known.

(4). Hemisids (Engystomatide, § IV, Boulenger).—Firmisternials
without teeth in upper jaw, with dilated sacral diapophyses, with pre-
coracoids, with the coracoids directed very obliquely backwards and
little dilated toward the epicoracoid cartilage, and with the “supra-
scapula” connected by ligament with the “ prootic.”

Only one species of this group, inhabiting South Africa, is known.

IV (1). Dyscophids——Firmisternials with teeth in upper jaw, with
dilated sacral diapophyses (with precoracoids “resting. upon cora-
coids,” and with a cartilaginous omosternum and ‘a very large an-
chor-shaped cartilaginous sternum”),

Two Madagascarene species answer to this definition, but three others
have been associated with them, which, if Professor Cope’s views are
accepted, will require to be differentiated as peculiar family types.

2). Calluellids—Firmisternials with teeth in upper jaw, with
dilated sacral diapophyses (with precoracoids “resting upon cora-
coids,” without an omosternum and with a small cartilaginous ster-
num).

One species is known—the Calluella guttulata of India.

(3). Cophylids—Firmisternials with teeth in upper jaw, with dilated
sacral diapophyses (and without precoracoids).

The Cophyle of Madagascar (two species) are the only known repre-
sentatives.

Section B. ARCIFERA.—Phaneroglossates with “coracoids and pre-
coracoids connected by an arched cartilage (the epicoracoid), that of
the one side overlapping that of the other.”

V (1). Cystignathids.—Arcifers with toothed upper jaw, and sub-
cylindric (or little dilated) sacral diapophyses.

This is a large family, including ‘arboreal, aquatic, terrestrial, and
burrowing types,” and numerously represented in South America and
Australia; 173 species are enumerated by Mr. Boulenger, although
some are doubtful.

VI (1). Dendrophryniscids.—Arcifers without maxillary teeth, with
subeylindrie sacral diapophyses.

Three South American species are alone known. The family has
been named Batrachophrynide by Professor Cope.

VIL (1). Bufonids.—Arcifers without maxillary teeth, with dilated
sacral vertebre (and a broad flat tongue, free behind).

This family is only equalled in its distribution by the Ranids, and
103 species (including a dozen doubtful ones) have been referred to the
family by Mr. Boulenger.

(2). Lhinophrynids—Arcifers without maxillary teeth, with dilated
sacral vertebre (and with an elongate subtriangular tongue, free in
front).

This family has been proposed for a Mexican Anuran (Rhinophrynus
dorsalis), and was contrasted with all the other Anurans on account of its
620 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882.

anteriorly free tongue by Dr. Giinther, all the other Phaneroglossates
being ‘“‘opisthoglossate” or with the ‘ tongue adherent in front, more
or less free behind.”

VIII (1). Hylids.x—Arcifers with maxillary teeth, dilated sacral dia-
pophyses, and claw-shaped terminal phalanges.

This family is one of the largest and most widely distributed of the
Anurans and includes, according to Boulenger, about 180 more or less
well known species; these are grouped by that author under ten genera,
but many others have been proposed by various authors.

IX (1). Pelobatids (or Scaphiopodids).—Arecifers with maxillary teeth,
dilated sacral diapophyses (the coccyx connate with the sacrum, and
with proceelian vertebre).

Seven species of Scaphiopus and two of Pelobates. represent this fam-
ily, the former in North America and the latter in Europe.

(2). Pelodytids—Arcifers with maxillary teeth, dilated sacral diapo-
physes (the coccyx articulating with one or two condyles of sacral ver-
tebra, and with proccelian vertebra.)

Two species—Pelodytes punctatus of Southern Europe aa Batrachop-
sis melanopyga of New Guinea—have two sacral condyles, and two others,
of the oriental genus Leptobrachium, have only one. Xenophrys having
proceelian vertebra, according to Boulenger, would also belong here, al-
though it was associated by Cope with Asterophrydids.

(3). Asterophrydids.—Arcifers with maxillary teeth, dilated sacral
diapophyses (the coceyx connected with one or two condyles or sacral
vertebre, and with opisthoccelian vertebre).

Four genera are referred to this family by Professor Cope, but, ac-
cording to Mr. Boulenger, only two of them—the Eastern Megalophrys
and Papuan Asterophrys—have its essential characters, 7. e., the opis-
thocelian vertebrie. Cryptotis is associated with Cystignathids and
Xenophrys with Pelodytids.

X (1). Discoglossids—Arcifers with maxillary teeth, dilated sacral
diapophyses, precoracoids and coracoid slightly divergent and gen-
erally tapering, and with the “sternum” emitting two divergent pro-
cesses.

This well-marked family has four European species and a fifth pecu-
liar form (Liopelma Hochstetteri) in New Zealand—a remarkable distri-
bution.

XI (1). Amphignathodontids.—Arcifers with maxillary as well as sim-
ilar mandibular teeth, dilated sacral diapophyses, and without an omo-
sternum. The Amphignathodon Guentheri, recently described by Mr.
Boulenger, from Ecuador, is the sole known species of this family.

XII (1). Hemiphractids—Arcifers with maxillary as well as pecu-
liar mandibular teeth, subeylindrical sacral diapophyses, coracoids and
precoracoids parallel, an omosternum, and (in Hemiphractus at least)
opisthoceelian vertebra, and the coccyx attached to two condyles.

Three tropical American genera, with eight species, have been re-

ZOOLOGY. 621

ferred to this family, but one (Amphodus Wurcheri) may require to be
differentiated from it.

The Discoglossids differ so much from the other Arcifers that the exi-
gencies of economy in diagnosis, as well as scientific taxonomy, appear
to demand its isolation in a peculiar superfamily, contrasting with
another containing all the other representatives of the arciferous sec-
tion, viz:

Bufonoidea.—Arciferous Phaneroglossates without ribs, and with
their tadpoles provided with a spiraculum situated on the left side.

Discoglossoidea.—Arciferous Phaneroglossates with short ribs and
their tadpoles distinguished by a ‘‘spiraculum situated mesially on the
thoracic region.”

Suborder II. AGLossA.—Salients with the Eustachian tubes united
into a single ostium pharyngium and without a tongue.

XIII (=1). Dactylethrids—Aglossates with maxillary teeth (with di-
lated sacral diapophyses, and with * coracoids and precoracoids sub-
equal, strongly divergent, connected by a double, not overlapping, car-
tilage”).

This family (which should by rights be called Xenopodids) is com-
posed by three species of Xenopus, found in Tropical Africa.

XIV (=1). Pipids.—A glossates without teeth (with dilated sacral dia-
pophyses, and with ‘‘coracoids and precoracoids strongly divergent,
former much dilated, connected by a broad, double, not overlapping,
cartilage”).

The Surinam Toad, Pipa americana, is the only known species of this
family.

REPTILES.
General.

Cope (E. D.). Reptiles of the American Eocene. Amer. Naturalist, v. 16, pp. 979-993.
Hoffman (C.K.). Reptilia. (Bronn’s Klassen und Ordnungen Thierreichs.) 35.
Lief. Leipzig und Heidelberg, 1882. (8vo. M. 1. 50.)

Special orders.
(Crocodilians.)

Chaffanjon (J.). Observations sur Alligator mississippiensis. Ann. Soc. Linn. Lyon,
t. 28. (8vo., 16 pp., 1 pl.)
Van Beneden (Edouard). Recherches sur Voreille moyenne des Crocodiliens, et ses
communications multiples avec le pharynx. Avec 3pl. Archiv. de Biolog., t. 3,
pp. 497-560.
(Lacertilians. )

Fischer (J.G.). Anatomische Notizen tiber Heloderma horridum Wiegm. Mit 1 Taf.
Verhandl. Ver. f. naturw. Unterhalt. Hamburg, 5. Bd.

Fischer (Joh. von). Das Chamiileon (Chameleo vulgaris), sein Fang und Versandt
seine Haltung und seine Fortpflanzung in der Gefangenschaft. Zoolog. Garten,
23. Jahrg., pp. 4-13, 39-48, ete.
622 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882.

Shufeldt (R.W.). Remarks upon the Osteology of Opheosaurus ventralis, Proc. U.
S. Nat. Mus., v. 4, pp. 392-400.

Strauch (A.). Bemerkungen iiber die Eidechsenfamilie der Amphisbeniden. Mélang.
Biolog., t. 11, pp. 355-479.

( Ophidians.)

Forbes (W.A.). Observations on the Incubation of the Indian Python (Python molu-
rus). Report 51 Meet. Brit. Assoc. Adv. Sc., p. 723-724.

( Chelonians. )

True (Fred. W.). On the North American Land Tortoises of the genus Xerobates,
Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., v. 4, p. 434-449.
(Dinosaurians. )

Marsh (0. C.). Principal characters of American Jurassic Dinosaurs.—Part V. Classi-
fication of the Dinosauria. Amer. Journal Se. (3), v. 23, pp. 81-86.

Reptiles of the American Eocene.

The Cretaceous was pre-eminently the age of Reptiles, and with
that period died out many strange types of the class. In the Tertiary
age the reptiles were developed under the same grand orders as those
of the present, but under some peculiar families and many peculiar
genera. Those of the Eocene of North America have been reviewed
by Professor Cope, and no less than 91 species are recognized, and are
segregated under four orders—the Crocodilians with 18 species, the
Tortoises with 42, the Lacertilians with 25, and the Ophidians with 6.
The ratios between the several types will thus be seen to be very dif-
ferent from those exhibited by any existing fauna, but the discrepancy
is, doubtless, to some extent due to our imperfect knowledge ; never-
theless, the real ratios were probably not very different from those al-
ready furnished by paleontology.

Professor Cope well remarks that “ the Eocene reptiles were not a
new creation nor a new evolution, but a remnant of the types that had
co-existed with the monarchs of life during previous ages. We must
except from this statement the serpents, which first appear in numbers
at this time, only one Cretaceous species having been found by Dr.
Sauvagein France. The crocodiles, tortoises, and lacertilians represent
orders already abundant in the Mesozoic faune. Their decadence in
Central North America did not commence until the Miocene period,
when the crocodiles and nearly all the tortoises disappeared.”

The Crocodilians, according to Cope, were represented by only 2
genera, both of the family Crocodilide, Crocodilus, with 16 species,
and Plerodon, with 2. “The Eocene species of true crocodiles differ
much in size and characters, ranging from the C. heterodon, which is
not larger than an Iguana, to the C. antiquus and C. clavis, which rival
the existing species of the East Indies.”

The tortoises of the Eocene are of unusual interest. Eight families

ZOOLOGY. 623

of the order are represented—the Sphargidids ; the Cheloniids, or true
sea-turtles; the extinct Propleurids, turtles to some extent intermediate
between the sea and snapping turtles; the Chelydrids, or snappers; the
Trionychids, or soft turtles; the extinct Baénids; the Emydids, now
so abundant in species; and the Testitudinids, or land tortoises.

The Dinosaurians.

Most interesting are the extinct reptiles named Dinosaurians, for
various reasons. Many of them were of gigantic size, in certain re-
spects they exhibited a considerable degree of specialization, they were
also manifested under a variety of modifications, and they either repre-
sented the general stock from which the birds originated or were but
little removed from that stock. In other words, could we trace the
line of the birds backward to their primitive ancestors the naturalist
would recognize in the ancestral form a member of the class of reptiles,
and in that class he would refer it either to the group of Dinosau-
rians, or, aS is more likely, to a peculiar earlier one, from which may
have originated both types. The richness of the Dinosaurian group in
species, in genera, and in families, as well as still more comprehensive
groups, had been gradually revealed by different paleontologists, and
at length in accelerated ratio, till now Professor Marsh has brought into
prominence the variety in structure manifested in a new arrangement of
the group. He even considers that the Dinosaurians constitute a di-
vision of reptiles of superordinal importance, and calls it a “subclass”;
the group is diyided into five primary sections, and those are denomi-
nated ‘ orders.” The characters given to the several subdivisions,
‘“ orders,” and ‘“ families” are herein condensed from Professor Marsh’s
diagnoses and contrasted with each other. Whether the groups are of
the value claimed by Professor Marsh may be an open question, and the
herpetologist must judge for himself what value he would assign to the
modifications employed in the diagnoses.

I. SAUROPODA. Dinosaurians with plantigrade (ungulate) feet, front
and hind pentadactyle ; fore and hind limbs nearly equal, and without
a postpubis; Atlantosauride and Morosauride.

IJ. STEGOSAURIA. Dinosaurians with plantigrade (ungulate) feet,
fore and hind pentadactyle; fore limbs very small and locomotion mainly
effected by hind ones; and with a postpubis; Stegosauride, Scelidosau-
ride.

III. ORNITHOPODA. Dinosaurians with digitigrade feet, the fore pen-
tadactyle, the hind tridactyle, fore limbs small, ‘“‘limb bones hollow,”
and with a postpubis; Comptonotide, Iguanodontide, and Hadrosauride.

IV. THEROPODA. Dinosaurians with digitigrade (unguiculate) feet,
the fore pentadactyle, the hind variable (pentadactyle, tetradactyle, or
tridactyle), the “fore limbs very small, limb-bones hollow,” and post-
pubis (?). Megalosauride, Zanclodontide, Amphisauride, Labrosauride.

V. CasLuria. (Not characterized.) Celurida.
624 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882.

VI. CompsoGNATHA. (Not characterized.) Compsognathide.

VII. HaALLopopaA. Dinosaurians with digitigrade (unguiculate) feet,
the fore (not described), the hind tridactyle, the “ fore limbs very small,”
and with the metatarsals greatly elongated, the caleareum much pro-
duced backwards, the vertebrz biconcave, and the vertebree as well as
limb-bones hollow. Hallopodide.

Five orders and fourteen families, it will be hence seen, are admitted
by Professor Marsh.

The fourteen families admitted are distinguishable as follows:

I (1). Atlantosaurids. Sauropods with ischia directed downwards and
meeting at median line at their extremities.

(2). Morosaurids. Sauropods with ischia directed backwards and
meeting along median line by their sides.

II (1). Stegosaurids. Stegosaurians with astragalus co-ossified with
tibia, and very short metatarsals.

(2). Scelidosaurids. Stegosaurians with astragalus distinet from
tibia and elongated metatarsals (with four functional digits in pes).

III (1). Comptonotids. Ornithopods without clavicles, and with a com-
plete postpubis.

(2). Iguanodontids. Ornithopods with clavicles, and with an incom-
plete postpubis.

(3). Hadrosaurids. Ornithopods with ‘teeth in several rows, form-
ing, with use, a tessellated grinding surface.” (Clavicles and post-pubis
not described.)

IV (1). Megalosaurids. Theropods with biconcave vertebre, pubes
slender and united distally, and tetradactyle pes.

(2). Zanclodontids. Theropods with biconcave vertebra, pubes broad,
elongate plates, with anterior margins united, and pentadactyle pes.

(3). Amphisaurids. Theropods with biconcave vertebra, pubes rod-
like, and tridactyle pes.

(4). Labrosaurids. Theropods with strongly opisthoceelian and cay-
ernous anterior vertebra.

V. Celurids. Dinosaurians with anterior (of cervical) vertebra opis-
thocelian and rest biconcave; very long and slender metatarsals, and
‘‘ bones of skeleton pneumatic or hollow.”

VI. Compsognathids. Dinosaurians with anterior vertebre opistho-
ceelian, and others not described, and tridactyle fore as well as hind
feet, and ischia with long symphysis on median line.

VII. Hallopodids.

The Wings of Pterodactyles.

Prof. O. C. Marsh has given a large plate and woodcuts illustrating a
Pterodactyle, named by him Rhamphorhynchus phyllurus, found in 1875
‘near Hichstiidt, Bavaria, in the same lithographic slates that have
yielded Archeopteryx, Compsognathus, and so many other Jurassic fossils
known to fame.” The wing membranes are well preserved and prove

ZOOLOGY. 625

that they were quite similar to those of the bats—smooth and contrac-
tile into folds. The tail of the type in question, at least at and near its
extremity, ‘‘supported a vertical membrane developed above as well as
below, and having a rhomboid or leaf-like outline.”

Professor Marsh has also discussed the homologies of the wing or
manus bones of the Pterodactyles, and reached the conclusions that
“there are five digits in the hand of Pterodactyles, although not the five
often given in restorations. The first digit, the elements of which have
been considered, undoubtedly supported a membrane in front of the
arm. The second, third, and fourth are small, and armed with claws.
The large wing finger is the fifth, corresponding to the little finger in
the human hand.” (A. J.58., (3,) v. 23, pp. 251-256.)

A poisonous Lizard.

A large lizard of an orange and black color with a skin tuberculated
or covered with scales, simulating the heads of nails, and hence called
Heloderma, is a common inhabitant of Arizona. It is dreaded by the
inhabitants of the Territory and deemed by them to be poisonous. The
allegations to that effect, however, have been doubted by naturalists,
because none of the lizards had been acknowledged to be venomous.
Heloderma differs from other lizards, however, in having grooved teeth
and the efferent ducts of the salivary glands discharging at the bases of
the grooves. The best-informed herpetologists have therefore acknowl-
edged the possibility, if not probability, of the truth of the popular be-
lief, and Professor Cope years ago named the Arizonian Heloderma, H.
suspectum, with reference to the bad reputation of the animal. Recent
experiments and the personal experience of Dr. R. W. Shufeldt have
demonstrated the correctness of the belief as to the poisonous character
of the lizard, and we have now the certainty that the representatives of
one type of lizard—the family of Helodermids with one genus and two
species—are venomous. Dr. Shufeldt has recorded the effects of a bite,
which was immediately attended with violent inflammation, in the
American Naturalist for November, 1882 (v. 16, pp. 907,908).

BIRDS.
General.

Gobin(A.). Traité des oiseaux de basse-cour, d’agrément et de produit. 26d. Paris,
Plon & Cie., 1882. (18mo., viii. 447 p.,93 fig. Fres.3. 50.)

Journals.

Bulletin of the Nuttall Ornithological Club. Vol.7. Cambridge, Mass., 1882. (8vo.)

Ibis (The), a Quarterly Journal of Ornithology. Edited by O. Salvin and Ph. L.
Sclater. 4 series, vol, 6. London, J. Van Voorst, 1882. (S8vo.)

Journal fiir Ornithologie. Deutsches Centralorgan fiir die gesammten Ornithologie,
Herausgegeben von J. Cabanis. 30.Jahrg. (4 Folge,10.Bd.) Leipzig, Kittler,
1882. (8vo.) .

H. Mis. 26——40
626 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882.
Anatomy.

Forbes (William A.). On the variations from the normal structure of the foot in birds.
Ibis (4), v. 6, pp. 386-390.

Lucas (Frederic A.), Notes on the Os prominens. With figs. Bull. Nutt. Ornithol.
Club. v. 7, pp. 86-89.

Nathnusius-Kénigsborn (W.). Untersuchungen von Eischalen, namentlich von Opis-
thocomus turnix und der sogenannten Ueberziige bei den Steganopoden und ande-
ren Eiern, nebst Bemerkungen iiber die systematische Bedeutung dieser Struc-
turen. Mit 10 Abbild. Journ. f. Ornithol., 30. Jahrg., pp. 255-315.

Physiology.
Seebohm (Henry). On the interbreeding of birds. Ibis (4), v. 6, pp. 546-549.
Faunas.

(North America.)

Coues. The Check list of North American Birds. Second edition, revised to date,
and entirely rewritten, under direction of the author, with a Dictionary of the
Etymology, Orthography, and Orthoépy of the Scientific names, the Concordance
of previous Lists, and a Catalogue of his Ornithological Publications. Boston,
Estes & Lauriat, 1882, 1 vol., imp. 8vo, pp. 165.

Gentry (Thomas G.). Illustration of Nests and Eggs of Birds of the United States.
Philadelphia, Wagenseller, 1880-82. (4to. Completed in5 parts, 300 pp., 54 chro-
mo-lith. pl. and 1 portr. $25.)

Maynard (C.T.). Birds of Eastern North America. With original description of all
the species which occur east of the Mississippi River, with 32 eol. lith. pl. Bos-
ton, Mass. 1882. (4to.)

Nehrling (H.). Beitriige sur Ornis des nérdlichen Illinois. (Fortsetzung.) Journ.
f. Ornitholog., 29. Jahrg., p. 405-416.

List of Birds observed at Houston, Harris Co., Texas, and in the counties
Montgomery, Galveston, and Fort Bend. Bull. Nutt. Ornithol. Club, v. 7, p. 166-
175.

Ridgway (Robert). List of Additions to the Catalogue of North American Birds.
Bull. Nuttall Ornithol. Club, y. vii, p. 257-258.

(Europe. )

Montagu (Col.). A Dictionary of British Birds: being a Reprint of Montagu’s Or-
nithological Dictionary, together with the additional species described by Selby
Yarrell in all three editions, and in Natural History journals. Compiled and
edited by Edw. Newman. London, Sonnenschein, 1882. (8°, 306 p., 7s. 6d.)

Seebohm (Henry). A History of British Birds, with colored illustrations of their eggs.
Part I. London, Porter. 1882. (8vo.)

( Asia.)

Salvadori (Tommaso). Prodromus Ornithologiz# Papuasie et Moluccorum. XIII.
Natagores. XIV. Struthiones. XV. Additamenta. Ann. Mus. Civ. Stor. Nat.
Genova, v. 18, p. 400-430.

(Africa.)

Barboza du Bocage (J. V.). Aves dos possesses portuguesas d’Africa occidental. 22.
Lista. Jorn. Sc. Math. Phys. Nat. Lisboa, 1882, pp. 291-298.

ZOOLOGY. 627

(Australia. )

Buller (W. L.). Manual ofthe Birds of New Zealand, with woodcuts and 37 pl. Well-
ington, N. Z., 1882. (8vo., 119 pp., M 14.)

Fossil birds.

Lemoine (V.). Recherches sur les Oiseaux fossiles des terrains tertiaires inférieurs des
environs de Reims. 2. Partie. Reims, impr. Matol-Braine, 1882. (8vo., p. 71-170,

pl. 6-11.)
: Special groups.

( Tubinares.)

Forbes(W.A.). Report on the Anatomy of the Petrels (Tubinares) collected during the
voyage of H. M.S. Challenger. With 7 pl.

(Gallina. )

Oustalet (E.). Description du Reinhardius ocellatus, Gallinacé voisin des Argus. Ann.
Scienc. nat. (6), Zool., t. 13, Art. No. 12. (8 pp.)

(Psittaci.)

Reichenow (Ant.). Conspectus Psittacorum. Systematische Uebersicht aller bekann-
ten Papageienarten. (Schluss). Journ. f. Ornitholog., 29. Jahrg., p. 337-398.

(Pici.)

Elliot (D. G.). A Monograph of the Bucerotide, or family of the Hornbills. Part 10
[concluding the work]. London, 1882. (fol.).

Sclater (P. L.). A Monograph of the Jacamars and Puff-Birds, or Families Galbulidz
and Bucconide. London, Dulau & Co., 1882. (4to. Completed.)

Stearns (Robert E. S.). The Acorn-storing habit of the California Woodpecker
[ Melanerpes formicivorus]. Amer. Naturalist, v. 16, p. 353-357.

( Passeres. )

Forbes (W. A.). Contributions to the Anatomy of Passerine Birds. Part 5. On the
Structure of the Genus Orthonyx. Proc. Zool. Soc. London. 1882, p.544-546.
Ibid., Part 6. On Xenicus and Acanthisitta as types of a new family (Xenicide)
of Mesomyodian Passeres from New Zealand. Proc. Zool. Soc. London, p.
561-571.

Shufeldt (R. W.). Notes upon the Osteology of Cinclus mexicanus. Bull. Nuttall
Ornithel. Club. V. 7, p. 213-221.

Variations of the Toes in Birds.

The variations from the normal structure of the foot in birds were
examined by the lamented Forbes shortly before his death, and are no-
ticed in an article published in the “Ibis” for July (1882).

Most birds, as is well known, have four toes, of which generally three
are directed forwards and one backwards in the non-zygodactylous
types. But one or other of the toes is liable to suppression, and the
one thus atrophied is by no means always the same; (1) generally it is
the hind toe or hallux, but (2) in certain kingfishers (Ceyx aleyone)
628 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882.

it is the second digit, and curiously enough (5) in one form—the Pas-
serine genus Cholornis—the fourth toe is aborted.

The customary number of phalanges is “2, 3, 4, 5, in the respect-
ive digits, counting from within outwards,” but this type is deviated
from in a number of instances. (1) Certain members of a family whose
representatives generally develop the normal structure may deviate
therefrom, as do the genera Cypselus and Panyptila among the Swifts
or Cypselids, which have 2, 3, 3, 3 phalanges. (2) The Pteroclids
and typical Caprimulgids develop only 2, 3, 4, 4, phalanges, “ the
fourth digit being one short of the normal number of phalanges”; and
(3) in the Procellariids, ‘‘ the number of joints in the hallux is reduced
to one,” the digital formula being 1, 3, 4, 5, except in Pelecanoides,
where the hallux is “quite absent.”

Interbreeding of Birds.

Mr. Henry Seebohm thought that “the inter-breeding of birds sup-
posed to be specifically distinct is a subject which has been much neg-
lected by ornithologists,” and has called attention to certain facts or
alleged facts bearing on the subject. ‘Two forms which are appa-
rently very distinct, as Corvus corone and C. cornix or Carduelis major
and C. caniceps, are nevertheless found to be only sub-specifically dis-
tinct—a complete series of examples from one extreme form to the
other in each case being obtainable. They are produced by interbreed-
ing with each other as well as with the intermediate forms. The
Shrikes (Lanius) and Dippers (Cinelus) offer other illustrations, as do
likewise the Nuthatches (Sitta). ‘The case of the Crows and the
Goldfinches, where the extreme forms interbreed, is exceptional; but
the cases where the individuals of each valley inferbreed with their im-
mediate neighbors, and where the range is great enough to make the
sum of a series of small differences show a large difference in the ex-
tremes, is by no means uncommon.”

For the details respecting the species enumerated reference must be
had to Mr. Seebohm’s article in the ‘“ Ibis” (48., v. 6, pp. 546-550). The
facts he brings forward are susceptible of another explanation, but the
subject discussed is of sufficient interest to demand attention.

New North American Birds.

A number of new forms of birds, previously unknown to the North
American fauna, were added thereto during 1882. Most of these are
the results of Mr. Ridgway’s investigations, and have been described as
“ subspecies” of species in the ‘Proceedings of the United States
National Museum,” v. 4, pp. 374-379 ; and v. 5, pp. 9-15, 114, 344. The
additions by Mr. Ridgway and others are as follows, the numbers ap-
pended indicating the position in his catalogue:

1. Hylocichla fuscescens salicola R.— Rocky Mountains (2a).

ZOOLOGY. 629

2. Hylocichla alicie Bicknelli R.—Catskill Mountains, N. Y. (3a).
3. Motacilla ocularis (Swinhoe). A straggler to La Paz., Cal., from
Eastern Asia (69*).
4, Chamea fasciata Henshawi R.—Cal. (35a).
5. Lophophanes inornatus griseus R.—Middle Province U.S. (38a).
. Certhia familiaris montana R.—Middle Province U.S. (550).
. Certhia familiaris occidentalis.— Pacific U. 8. (55ce).
. Catherpes mexicanus punctulatus R.—Cal. (59d).
. Dendreca Vielloti Bryanti R.—La Paz, L. Cal. (93*).
10. Geothlypis Beldingi R.—L. Cal. (122*).

_ 11. Vireo Huttoni Stephensi Brewster.—Arizona and N. Mex. (144a).
12. Spizella monticola ochracea Brewster.—Washington Terr. (210a).
13, Pencea ruficeps eremeeca Brown.—Texas (230)).

14, Perisoreus canadensis nigricapillus R.—Labrador (297c).

15. Ornithium imberbe Ridgwayi Brewster.—Arizona (331a).

16. Scops asio Bendirei Brewster.—Cal. (402e).

17. Lagopus mutus Reinhardti (Brehm) Turner.—Alaska, Greenland
(475a).

18. Lagopus mutus atkhensis, Turner.—Atkha Island (475d).

19. Ardea Wardi R.—W. Florida (486*).

20. Rallus Beldingi R.—Gulf of Cal. (569*).

2J. Diomedea melanophrys (Temm.) R.—Off coast of Cal. (701*).

oman

MAMMALS.
General.

Bizzozero (G.). Sur un nouvel élément morphologique du sang chez les Mammiféres
Arch. Ital. Biol., t. 1, pp. 1-4; pp. 274-278.

Gréhaut, et E.Quinquand. Mesure du volume desang contenu dans ’organisme @’un
Mammifére vivant. Compt. rend. Acad. Se., Paris, t. 94, pp. 1450-1453.

K6lliker (Albert). Embryologie ou Traité complet du développement de Vhomme et
des animaux supérieurs. Trad. par A. Schneider.. Avec préface de H. de La-
caze-Duthiers. Paris, C. Reinwald, 1882. (8vo., 1059, xviii pp., 606 grav., 25 Frs.)

Leboucg (H.). De l’os central du carpe chez les Mammifeéres. Bull. Acad. Se. Bel-
gique, (3,) t. 4, pp. 220-230.

Renson (Geo.). De la Spermatogénése chez les Mammiféres. Avec 2 pl. Archives
de Biolog., t. 3, pp. 291-334.

Sehlen (D. von). Beitrag zur Frage nach der Mikropyle des Saiigethiereies. Mit 1
Taf. Arch. f. Anat. u. Phys., Anat. Abth., 1882, pp. 33-51.

Fossil Mammals.

Van Beneden (P.J.). Description des Ossemens fossiles des environs d’Anvers. 3.
Partie. Cétacés Genres: Megaptera, Balenoptera Burtinopsis Erpetocetus. Brux-
elles, F. Hayez, 1882. (Ann. Mus. R. d’Hist. Nat., Série Paléontol., t.7. -90 pp.,
avec un Atlas de 70 pl. in-plano.

Filhol (H.). Mémoires sur quelques Mammifores fossiles des phosphorites du Quercy.
Toulouse, 1882. (4to.)

Notes sur quelques Mammiféres fossiles de Vépoque miocéne. Arch.

Mus. d’Hist. Nat. Lyon, t. 3. (103 pp., 5 pl.)

630 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882,
Special groups.
(Monotremes.)

Dubois (Alph.). Remarques sur U-dcanthoglossus Bruyniit. Avec 2 pl. Bull. Soc.
Zool. France, 6. ann., 1881, pp. 266-270.

Lankester (E. Ray). On the Valves of the Heart of Ornithorhynchus paradoxus com-
pared with those of Man and the Rabbit, with some Observations on the Fossa
Ovalis. With4pl. Proc. Zool. Soc. London, 1882, pp. 549-559.

(Marsupials. )

Cattaneo (Giacom.). Sugli organi riproduttori femminili dell’ Halmaturus Ben-
nettii Gould. Coniltay. Atti Soc. Ital. Se. Nat., v. 24.

Chapman (Henry C.). On a Fetal Kangaroo and its Membranes. With 1 pl.
Proc. Acad. Nat. Se. Philad., 1881, pp. 468-471.

Lister (J. J.) and J. J. Fletcher. On the condition of the median portion of the
Vaginal Apparatus in the Macropodide. Proc. Zool. Soc. London, 1881, pp.

976-996.
(Edentates. )

Flower (W. H.). On the Mutual Affinities of the Animals composing the Order of
Edentata. Proc. Zool. Soc. London, 1882, pp. 358-367.

( Rodents. )

Jentink (F. A.). Revision of the Muridw in the Leyden Museum. Notes Leyden
Museum, v. 4, pp. 193-209.

Thomas (Oldfield). On two new Muride from Tasmania. Ann. & Mag. Nat.
Hist., (5,) v. 9, pp. 413-416.

(Insectivores. )

Ganser (Sigb.). Vergleichend-anatomische Studien tiber das Gehirn des Maul-
wurfs. Mit. 5 Taf. Morpholog. Jahrb., 7. Bd., pp. 591-725. ,
Kober (J.) Studien iiber Talpa europea. Mit 2 Taf. Verhandl. naturf. Ges.
Basel, 7. Th., pp. 62-119.
( Chiropters.)

Leche (W.). Upon the Milk Dentition and Homologies of the Teeth of the Cheirop-
tera. Amer. Naturalist, v. 16, p. 109.
Robin (H. A.). Recherches anatomiques sur les Mammiféres de l’ordre des Chirop-
téres. Avec8pl. Ann. Sc. Nat., (6,) Zool., t. 12, Art. No. 2. (180 pp.)
Sur les enveloppes feetales des Chiroptéres de la famille des Phyllos-
tomides. Compt. rend. Ac. Sc., Paris, t. 95, pp. 1377-1379.

( Taxeopods.)

Cope (E. D.). On the Taxeopoda, a New Order of Mammalia. Amer. Naturalist, v.
16, pp. 522-523.
( Cordylarthrans.)

Cope (E. D.). On the Cordylarthra. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sc. Philad., 1882, pp. 95-97.
Ann. & Mag. Nat. Hist., (5,) v. 10, pp. 76-79.

(Proboscidians. )
Owen (Richard). Descriptions of Portions of a Tusk of an Australian Proboscidian
Mammal (Notelephas australis). Nature, v.25, p.571. (From Proc. R. Soc. Lon-
don.)

ZOOLOGY. 631
(Perissodactyles.)

Stillman (J. D. B.). The Horse in Motion, as shown in a Series of Views by Instan-
taneous Photography, with a Study on Animal Mechanics, with a Preface by
Leland Stanford. Boston, 1882, (4to.)

(Artiodactyles. )

Riitimeyer (L.). Beitriige zu der Geschichte der Hirschfamilie. I. Schiidelban. Ver-
handl. naturforsch. Ges. Basel, 7. Th., pp. 3-61.

Beitrige zu einer natiirlichen Geschichte der Hirsche. II. Abhandl.
Schweiz. Palaeontol. Ges., 8. Bd.

Sigel (W. L.). Das Nilpferd des zoologischen Gartens zu Hamburg. Mit 3 Abild.
Zoolog. Garten, 1882, pp. 129-140.

Thomas (Ph.). Recherches sur les Bovidés fossiles de Algérie. Avec 2 pl. Bull.
Soc. Zool., France, 6 ann., pp. 92-136.

( Carnivores.)

Mivart (St. George). On the Classification and Distribution of the #luroidea.
Proc. Zool. Soc. London, 1882, pp. 135-208.

Wilder (Burt G.). The Brain of the Cat, Felis domestica. 1. Preliminary Account of
the Gross Anatomy. With4pl. Proc. Amer. Philos. Soc., v. 19, pp. 524-562.

(Primates.)

Placzek (B.). Die Affen bei den Hebriern und andern Vélkern des Alterthums. Kos-
mos, (11. Bd.), pp. 190-117.

Preglacial Mammals of England.

In the English counties of Norfolk and Suffolk, along the sea-shore,
are exposures of a fossiliferous belt of comparatively recent geological
age, designated as the ‘forest-bed series,” which has been quite a fa-
vorite subject for study among British geologists. It represents the
“last stage” in England, previous to the glacial period, and is there-
fore of peculiar interest on account of the evidence which its several
beds yield of the nature of the preglacial animal life of Britain. A
recent monograph of its vertebrate remains has been published by Mr.
E. T. Newton, the assistant naturalist of the survey, which throws much
additional light on the fauna of the period. Although the molar teeth
of elephants are generally the most numerous as well as the most con-
spicuous objects in all collections of forest-bed remains, and were
among the earliest remains of mammals recorded from these deposits,
the assiduous search of many trained. observers has now unearthed
fragments of the skeletons of ‘79” species, “of which 40 have been
made known by the researches of the Geological Survey.” In this
number, however, are included several doubtfully determined forms.
Such as they are—certain and doubtful—they represent 52 species of
mammals (including 2 pinnipeds and 4 cetaceans), 2 species of birds
(besides undeterminable forms), 2 reptiles, 4 amphibians, and 19 (or
20) fishes. The mammals alone are of sufficient general interest to
632 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882.

justify specification. From their remains it appears that in the age
which is only separated from our own by the intervention of the gla-
cial epoch, a fauna rich in large quadrupeds of types now confined
to the tropics coexisted with many species s‘ill living in Britain.
Coeval with carnivores, insectivores, and rodents that now characterize
the northern fauna, were two species of horses (Hquus caballus fossilis
and Equus Stenonis), two species of rhinoceros (&. etruscus and Rk. mega-
rhinus), a hippopotamus (H. major),very like, and possibly identical with,
the living one of Africa; and no less than three species of elephants
(#. antiquus, EB. meridionalis, and E. primigenius). These special forms
have all become extinct, although allied ones are living in tropical or
subtropical countries. The ruminants of that period were also numer-
ous, aS many as 135 species of deer having been identified with more or
less reason. With them were associated a species of ox (Bos primige-
nius?) and a peculiar kind of sheep, apparently related. to ‘the Sardin-
ian sheep (Caprovis musimon),” which has been called Caprovis Savinit.
The beaver still living in Europe then also lived, but with it existed a
much larger form, distinguished by a peculiar dentition (Trogontherium
Cuvieri). It might naturally be supposed that where so many large
herbivorous animals were found, carnivorous species would abound, but
unquestionable remains of only three large species have been discov-
ered—a peculiar saber-toothed tiger-cat (Macherodus), and two bears—
the gigantic cave-bear (Ursus speleus), and one that has been identified
(with questionable correctness) with the grizzly of the United States
(Ursus ferox fossilis) Ambiguous remains of a felid which may have
belonged to Macherodus or some other form have been found; but besides
these, so far as known, were only a couple of canine animals (possibly
the wolf, Canis lupus, and the fox, Vulpes), the marten (Martes sylva-
tica), and, remarkable as coexisting with the tropical types enumerated,
the glutton (Gulo luscus). Another form, noteworthy on account of its
present distribution, whose remains occur in the upper fresh-water
bed of the ‘forest series,” is the Myogale moschata—a shrew-like mole,
which is now confined to Russia, between the Don and the Volga.

Such were the forms that lived in Britain at a late geological epoch,
and when specialized man undoubtedly existed in a savage or “ wild”
state, in his natal country at least. The climate must then have been
still warm and humid, and the vegetation rank and luxurious. But
a violent contrast was to supervene. The Pliocene epoch was closing,
and a period remarkable for its cold and accompanying phenomena—
the glacial period, or age of ice—in time succeeded. Many of thelarge
forms that lived in the Pliocene died out; some retreated and survived
farther south; and when at last modern Britain appeared with its
present conditions, a comparatively scanty fauna and mostly small
forms were its only heritage and final occupants. (Gill, in The Critie
for February 10, 1883.)

ANTHROPOLOGY.

By Otis T. MASON.

INTRODUCTION.

There is no better way to mark the progress of a science than to note
the gradual change of meaning which its terminology undergoes, be-
coming more and more definite. Somewhere Paul Broca lays down the
following rule for the nomenclature of anthropology: “Que chaque chose
ait un nom, qu’elle n’en ait qwun seul, et que ce nom ne désigne qwune
seule chose. Pour cela il suffira le plus souvent de restreindre a un
sens déterminé les termes déja usités. Ce ne sera qu’exceptionellement
que j’aurai un terme nouveau a proposer.” The scientific study of man
should include every investigation which can be conducted according
to the rules of procedure in force among the more exact sciences, reach-
ing backward to the remotest cosmic event which was in any manner
connected with his origin, and forward as long as his hopes and fears
lead him to protend his existence, just so far as the phenomena can be
subjected to repeated and accurate observation, and their results can
be tabulated, and expressed in terms of reasonable constancy. The
beginning of anthropology, therefore, is concerned with the origin of
man, its special work is with the actual life of humanity on the globe,
including human beliefs and conduct with reference to the spirit world.
The work accomplished during the year will be considered in the order
of the artificial scheme employed in the last summary, as follows:

I.—Anthropogeny.
IL.—Archeology.
IiI.—Biology of man.
IV.—Psychology.
V.—Ethnology.
VI.—Glossology.
VII.—Comparative technology.
VIII.—Sociology.
IX.—Pneumatology.
X.—Hexiology.
X1.—Instrumentalities.
634 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882.

I.—ANTHROPOGENY.

As previously defined in these summaries, anthropogeny includes all
investigations concerning the time, place, causes, and manner of man’s
appearance, together with his physical, intellectual, technical, social,
moral, and religious status at his advent.

Says M. Issaurat, in reviewing Hovelacque’s ‘Les Débuts de ’Hu-
manité,” primitive man has left traces of his existence that give us
some idea of his structure, his industry, and his manners. Further-
more, we meet now living on the globe the witnesses of prehistoric
races in the lower types of men. The comparison of the characteristics
of these lower types leads to interesting conclusions. It confirms, ac-
cording to M. Hovelacque, the polygenism of Broca and Topinard, to
wit, that the distinguishing features of certain races have values such
as are made the bases of species in natural history. There were, there-
fore, many species of anthropoid precursors of man. M. Hovelacque
also draws from modern savages some conclusions concerning the intel-
lectual, social, and moral status of primitive man. (fev. d’Anthrop.,
KVsp. O21,)

Mr. Grant Allen, criticising the arguments of Dr. Mitchell and Mr.
Dawkins respecting the bearing of archeological facts upon the evolu-
tion of man, thus formulates his conclusions: 1. The cave-men were
not only true men, but menof a comparatively high type. 2. But the
river-drift men, who preceded them, were men of a lower social organi-
zation, and probably of a lower physical organization as well. 3. The
earliest human remains which we possess, though on the whole decidedly
human, are yet in some respects of a type more brute-like than that of
any existing savages. 4. They specially recall the most striking traits
of the larger anthropoid apes. 5. There is no reason to suppose that
these remains are those of the earliest men who inhabited the earth. 6.
There is good reason for believing that before the evolution of man in
his present specific type, a man-like animal, belonging to the same
genus, but less highly differentiated, lived in Europe. 7. From this
man-like animal the existing human species is descended. 8. Analogy
would lead us to suppose that the line of descent which culminates in
man first diverged from the line of descent which culminates in the
gorilla and the chimpanzee about the later Eocene or early Miocene,
period. The fallacy which underlies so much of our current reasoning
on primitive man is the tacit assumption that man is a single modern
species, not a Tertiary genus with only one species surviving. The
more we examine the structure of man and of the anthropoid apes, the
more does it become clear that the differences between them are merely
those of a genus or family, rather than distinctive of a separate order,
or even a separate sub-order. Itis pretty generally acknowledged that
the divergence between man and the anthropoids is greater than can
ANTHROPOLOGY. 635

be accounted for by the immediate descent of the living form from a
common ancestor in the last preceding geological age. Therefore, there
must have been a man-like animal, or a series of man-like animals, in
later, if not in earlier, Tertiary times. (Grant Allen, in Fortnightly Rev.,
Sept,, p. 308.)

Another road of approach to the origin and genetic relations of man
is through anomalies, criminals, and the defective class. If a certain
anomaly occurs in savages, criminals, and delinquents, quite frequently,
which is rare in higher races and normal in higher mammals, this is
looked upon as the gradual elimination of a useless or pernicious struc-
ture. If, on the other hand, the process is reversed, and the anomalies
of the anthropoids become more persistent with the elevation of man, it
is regarded as the survival of a beneficial structure. This subject has
engaged the attention of many distinguished anthropologists who are
striving to come nearer tothe true relationships of our species,—notably of
M. Anoutchine, in a discussion entitled “‘ Sur quelques anomalies du crane
humain et de leur fréquence dans les races.” (Published in the Trans-
actions of the Soc. d. Amis d. Sc. nat., de ?Anthrop., etc., de Moscou,
XXVIII, pt. 3; and reviewed in Rev. @ Anthrop., V, p. 357, by C. de Merej-
kowski.)

Upon the subject of assassins in relation to primitive man the labors
of Prof. P. Heger and J. Dalemagne upon the craniological charac-
teristics of a number of assassins executed in Belgium should be con-
sulted. The conclusions to which the authors arrive agree with those
of M. Lombroso and M. Bordier, that the parieto-occipital brain predom-
inates in assassins. But, according to the Belgians, criminals do not
constitute even a variety of the species. The craniological characters of
assassins depend chiefly upon the type or race to which they belong.
It is impossible to apply to them all any theory whatever. On the other
hand, craniology enables us to classify them according to the capability
of amelioration, in the same way that Pinel divides the defectives.
(Ann. de VUniv. de Bruxelles, 1881; Rev. d’ Anthrop., V, p. 530.)

IIl.—ARCHAOLOGY.

There is no other department of anthropology whose genuine improve-
ment can be marked so palpably as archeology. The scientific treat-
ment of the subject is not very old; indeed, the tendency to form-
ulate a very large conclusion from a very small premise is still too
common.

Every country with any claim to civilization boasts of its archzo-
logical sites and active research. Therefore, a very lucrative trade has
sprung up in aboriginal relics, and the frauds perpetrated are already
an embarrassing factor in the problems of ancient history.

A glance over the bibliography for the year shows that the tendency
has been rather toresearch than to speculation. Explorations of the most
636 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882.

thorough nature have been prosecuted by the Archeological Institute
of America among the pueblos of Mexico and the antiquities of Assos;
by the Peabody Museum among the works of the Mound-Builders; by
the American Antiquarian Society in the early history of our white
settlements; by the Smithsonian Institution, and especially by, the
Bureau of Ethnology, not only among the pueblos, but also among
the mounds. It would be impossible to mention all the thorough
work in progress by local societies and individuals in all the States
where antiquities exist.

The startling find of the year was the “Carson Footprints,” at first
claimed to have been left ‘‘on the sands of time” by a giant with a
foot 18 incheslong. Prof. Joseph Le Conte thus describes them: ‘The
nearly horizontal strata in which they occur consist of beds of sandstone
with thin layers of fine shale. The track layer, which is one of these
latter, has been uncovered for nearly two acres, and forms the floor of
the prison yard, while the stones removed have been used to build the
prison. From the fossils discovered, the deposit seems to be the equus
beds, by some put in the Upper Pliocene; by others, in the lowest Qua-
ternary. It is probably a transition between the two. The whole sur-
face of the shale exposed is covered with tracks of many kinds, but the
mud was so soft that the nature of many of them can only be guessed;
the most interesting are those of the mammoth and the problematical
so-called human tracks. The ‘human’ tracks occur in several regular
alternating series of 15 to 20. In size they are 15 to 20 inches long and
8 inches wide. In shape they are, many of them, far more curved than
the human track, especially in softmud. The stride is 24 to 3 feet, and
even more. But the most remarkable thing about them, on the human
theory, is the straddle, amounting to 18 and even 19 aes ii PEN
After careful examination for several days, the conclusion reached was
that the tracks were probably made by a large plantigrade quadruped,
most like a gigantic ground-sloth, such as the Mylodon of the Quater-
nary, or the Morotherium of the Upper Pliocene of Nevada.” Similar
views have been expressed by Professor Marsh and G. K. Gilbert.
(Nature, May 31, 1883.)

The Archeological Institute of America published during the year
the first volume of its classical series relative to investigations in Assos,
in 1881, a neat volume of 215 pages, with illustrations and maps. It
also issued the third annual report, which gives us, in addition to the
usual balance sheet and list of members, the report of a special com-
mittee upon the plan of operations of the institute and the work of Mr.
Bandelier in Mexico. The last-named gentleman has studied the con-
struction, the function, and the builders of the pyramid of Cholula.
He regards the structure as made of huge walls of adobe, forming
immense communal buildings, like those at Pecos and other places in
New Mexico, in size approaching those of Uxmal or Palenque, and
ANTHROPOLOGY. 637

built around a vast court, in the center of which stood a great worship
mound. The builders were the Toltecs, identified with the Mayas.

The fifteenth annual report of the Peabody Museum is chiefly occu-
pied with an exhaustive paper by Professor Putnam on American abo-
riginal copper-working. Preceding the minute description of the ob-
jects severally, the author makes some judicious observations upon
copper manufacture which are worth repeating. ‘In America, outside
of Mexico, before the coming of Europeans, there is no evidence, as yet,
that copper was used otherwise than as a substance which could be ham-
mered and cutinto many desired shapes. In Mexico, Central America,
Peru, and Chili, there is no doubt that copper was both cast and ham-
mered, and by some nations was also mixed with tin or with gold, and
cast in molds; but the difficulty of melting and casting unalloyed copper
is far too great to be easily overcome.”

Dr. Charles Rau presented at the American Association a paper upon
a stone grave in Illinois containing the skeleton of a Kickapoo Indian,
thereby showing the connection of such interment with our modern
Indians. The other contributions of Dr. Rau will be found mentioned
in the report of Professor Baird, as well as the account of the work of
the Bureau of Ethnology, and of the other special collaborators of the
Smithsonian Institution.

The Museo nacional de Mexico has continued the publication of the
Anales, containing papers mentioned in the Bibliography under the
titles Barcena, Chavero, Mendoza, Sanchez, Orozco y Berra, and Icaz-
balceta.

Dr. Daniel G. Brinton contributes to the first number of the Ameri-
can Antiquarian for the current year a paper on the probable nation-
ality of the Mound-Builders, in which the following language occurs:
“Tt would appear that the only resident Indians at the time of the dis-
covery who showed any evidence of mound-building comparable to that
found in the Ohio Valley were the Chahta-Muskokee. I believe that
the evidence is sufficient to justify us in accepting this race as the con-
structors of all those extensive mounds, terraces, platforms, artificial
lakes, and circumvallations which are scattered over the Gulf States,
Georgia, and Florida.”

Especial mention should be made of the gorgeous work of Reiss and
Stiibel upon the necropolis of Ancon, in Peru; of Marquis de Nadaillac’s
volume entitled “ L’Amérique préhistorique;” and of M. de Mortillet’s
‘¢Préhistorique antiquité de Vhomme.” The last-named work is the ma-
turest fruit of a life devoted to archeology. Some very great improve-
ments in the treatment of the subject are introduced, among them the
attachment of the author’s name to each remarkable discovery. The
638 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882.

following table exhibits M. Mortillet’s scheme of archeological se-
quence:

Upper Secondary. India; silicified forests, with cuttings (Marchesetti).

Soissonien .-..-.-. Lignite of Montaign, boule en Craie (Melleville).

Inferior Tertiary. | Londonien........
Parisien ..........

Eocene. Bartonien ---..--.
Ligurien......-... Siderolite of Délémont; human skeleton (Quiquerez).

A Tongrien ..-....... Fontainbleau sandstone; petrified man over his horse.
Oligocene. .-....- ; Aquitanien -.-.--- Limestone of Beauce, Thenay; flaked and broken flint

(Bourgeois).

Gravels of Orleans; marked bones (Notel).

Fresh-water formation of Gannat; gashed bones (Pomel).
Fresh-water chalk of Billy; gashed bones (Laussedal).
Mayencien...... | Sansan hill; broken bones 1 EAN

——=—\

Middle Tertiary. Marl ee Anjou, Pouance; incised bones (Delaunay, Tour-
nouée).

Marl of Anjou, Chavagne-les-Eaux ; incised bones (Farge).

Miocene.

(Calvert).

{ Miocene of Dardanelles; chipped flint, scratched bones
Molasse of Central France; human skeleton (Garrigon).

Fossiliferous diggings of Pikermi; broken bones (De
Tortonien Decne E
an rae ale conglomerate of Cantel; chipped flint (Tardy,
mes).

Miocene and Pliocene deposits of Portugal; chipped flint
(Ribeiro).

(| Depesits of San Valentino; wrought bone (Ferretti).
| Ossiferous diggings of Val d’Arno; scratched bone (Des-
noyers).
Strata o€ San Giovanni; scratched bone (Ramorino).
Astien.......... 1 Deposits of balenotus at Monte-Aperto; scratched bones
(

Upper Tertiary. (Capellini).
Blue mar! of Savone; human bones (Issel).
Piedmont; pierced scapula of mastodon (Gastaldi).

Red crag of Suffolk ; pierced sharks’ teeth (Charlesworth).

Pliocene.

Allnvium of California ; implements (Blake), skull (Whit-
ney).
Saint Prestien ..< | Autry-Issard; silicified wood cut (Charnaux).
Saint Prest.; scratched bones (Desnoyers), chipped flint
(Bourgeois).

Monustérien -...--..- 0.
Solutréen.-.....-... Grottoes; human bones and objects of industry.

Chelléen.........-. onan ; human bones and objects of industry.
Magdalenien.-..---- Do

III.—BIOLOGY OF MAN.

Investigations of this class include human structure, or anatomy;
diseases, or pathology; questions of size, form and weight, color, and
texture of parts, or anthropometry; the progress of life in the indi-
vidual, or ontogeny; and the life history of the species, or phylogeny.
This subject is of vast proportions. Already biological societies multi-
ply, in which the human subject receives its share of attention as the
head of the animal kingdom. In the Index Medicus, before mentioned,
a monthly catalogue of works on human and general biology is given.
ANTHROPOLOGY. 639

Although every portion of the body must yield results of great im-
portance, and new structures are brought within the scope of study each
year, the skull and brain are still the parts upon which the most labor
is bestowed. As an example of the minuteness with which measure-
ments are prosecuted, tables are appended exhibiting the last results of
Broca’s labors before he prematurely laid down the scalpel. The sub-
ject has received an elaborate treatment at the hands of his pupil, Dr.
L. Manouvrier, in the Bulletin of the Zoological Society of France, for
1882; as well as among German anthropologists.

Paul Broca’s tables of brain-weight, in grams.

Bicétre Hospital San Antoine et Pitie.
Age. |
No.| Mean age. height Weight. |No.| Mean age heen Weight.
1 19 1, 63 1, 475 15 18.1 1. 65 1, 359
3 22.6 1. 68 1, 339 11 23.5 1.70 1, 365
1 28 Be obacecod 1, 547 15 28.3 1.76 1,414.5
2 B.5 1.73 1,370 24 33 1.70 1, 421.4
3 38 1. 69 1, 316.6 | 19 38 1. 67 1,411.4
6 42.6 1. 67 1, 312. 6 | 23 42.6 1. 67 1, 340.6
6 49.3 1. 65 1, 220 15 48.2 1. 65 1, 200. 4
RSF ce anAccossonas 4 54 1. 68 1, 488.5 | 12 53.5 1. 69 1, 341.8
55-60........-.----- 8 57.6 1. 65 1,315 17 57.5 1. 67 1, 313.4
(TiS anoSncsosenoes 17 63. 1 1. 65 1, 295. 7 | 20 63. 6 1. 68 1,329 1
Go-l0neinisie semeiereiee 13 68.3 1. 63 1,240.1} 7 67.7 1.70 1,311.1
We eessnccoscccas 15 73.5 1, 63 1,219.7 } 5 73.4 1. 69 1,291.6
TO SO 5 ato<sseosiscacas 16 77 1. 65 1,213.9 | 4 77.6 1. 66 1, 245.5
80-85. . nosesssoc|| ZY 82.1 1. 62 1, 208 1 83 1. 68 1, 430
80-00 Fesaiess seen e 4 &8. 2 1. 60 MQ Se0 accel catiswsicecslcle|utewecweccen|aetcee cones
O0L05 ne eee eee 1 91 1. 60 15 SOO ims | Bes Sse ts BO 8 Mca Pee Pe eee
pact bcodsescosaalleéctossestdallocsosa conse 2 17.5 1. 49 1, 251
sped loccded nodal oteesonooonleeeee sae eee 4 24 1. 62 1, 258
28 1.53 1, 248 7 28.4 1. 56 1,192.1
31 1.57 1, 212 3 33 1. 58 1, 269
37 | 1.51 1, 045 4 37.7 1.58 1, 162.5
44 1.56 1, 153 5 42.4 1.59 1, 247.8
46.5 1. 60 1,220.5 6 49.5 1.58 1, 188.5
54 1. 56 1, 039 3 52.6 1, 56 T, 140.6
59. 6 1. 56 1,112.5 | 7% 57.8 1. 58 1, 217.1
62. 5 1. 63 1,148 5; 1 62 1,59 1, 251
68. 4 1. 54 1,156.4 | 6 67.8 1.55 1, 136.8
72.4 1.59 1,118.3] 8 73. 2 1. 55 1, 095. 3
78. 4 1.55 1,108.5) 4 77.5 1.59 1, 147.7
82.3 1.55 1,087.3} 3 83. 3 1. 54 1, 038
88. 3 1.51 D087. Ti s22| ssecwaecces|-scmensecious|pocesnenanen
92. 5. 1. 48 090) | eos eeeatinceeinen|eoehee see a4|ceceeeeetes

The mean brain-weight of all is about 1,325 grams for the males, and
1,142 for the females. The medium height for all is 1™.42 to1™.85. Other
tables are given in Broca’s paper, in which age and sex are the criteria
in decades, also height and sex, sex and decades, weight and age, ete.
(Rev. @ Anllrop., V, pp. 7, 9.)

The slowness with which crania well authenticated are collected makes
it very desirable, if possible, to oktain measures upon the living subject
which can be reduced to the index of the skeleton. Efforts in this
direction have been made by Bicétre, Stieda, Topinard, Virchow, Mik-
640 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882.

lucho-Maklay, Weisbach, and others, and notably by Broca, whose table
of craniometry compared with cephalometry is given below:

Cephalic index.

Antero-posterior diameter. Transverse diameter.
Sex.
Skull. | Living. |Excess.| Skull. | Living. | Excess.| Skulk | Living. | Excess.
Mm. Mm. Mm. Mm. Mm.
200 201 1 150 2
175 176 1 140 4
171 179 8 156 5
177 185 8 162 6
172 178 6 153 5
176 183 7 160 9
175 187 2 164 8
180 187 ti 154 6
174 182 8 142 5
185 192 7 156 8
174 181 Ys 146.5 8.
174 178 4 148 4
172 178 6 152 6
174 180 6 150 6
185 192 fi 145 9
168 176 8 146 4
165 172 ie 148 “a
170 178 8 142 8
180 185 5 149 1
Average.. 176.1 182.6 6. 150.7 5.

It will be observed that individual differences are very large; but in
the measurement of a large number of living subjects the mean will be
found by deducting therefrom the average excesses.

Broca’s measurements of cranial capacity.
ip

©

5 c : 3)

mH He mn q

Nationality, &e. 3 3 s o

g ON ce = eg Re =

oO =

a a & A

jets
Cue) CC! CC.

Chipped flint age: Grenelle & Bellamcourt........... cccceseesesseeeeseaseeneees 2; 1,552; 1! 1,390 162
SOG Gee Ro ccccessccsccscassccencrercscectacwacescesvessesssonsennacsn 12} 1,564) 2] 1,395 169
Polished stone age: L’ Homme Mott...............ccssecsennscncssccecccccecsscccscccecs 6] 1,606| 6] 1,507 99
Vaureal.. 5] 1,533 | 2) 1,517 216
SWELTIOUS:.scosesceuncs 8} 1,576] 5| 1,426 150
Grottes de Baye 25 | 1,534] 14] 1,407 127
Geae rT Stree teres ner cre tees soe anna nara ccceneraner cus cbenceatesacnes | 24]. 1,592 | 10} 1,457 135
Merovingians: Chelles, Ist Series... ............ssssssssseecceceecseerecceeseeeees ..| 26} 1,596 | 19 | 1,374 222
MHeISSWd SOLIS ee oaes screete-ssccerececsdcedececccnenseraenudsetectds 8| 1,521; 4) 1,395 126
GhampliontSdiserics icc .ccccocdsattncccesrssesertcoracsacceuaconecrses 8} 1,524) 3} 1,318 206
Parisians: City, XTIth Cent..............ccsssecsscsessecceccosecrssenssncesccsesessscenscnces 67 | 1,531 | 42} 1,820 211
West, KUCXEH CONE. .....5.5...5..<cc-cosesoncssnacensccascsenssenscasssveecansuaens 77 | 1,559 | 41 | 1,337 222
Pariseux, KyMPi TEGiON .............scccovecesssnscceccccscssecsacsssscnscssscassescsasccencss 9} 1,539) 5] 1,355 184
PTO Ma COTS esc ccerccotenececces Gases caves warpceatseesscccvetesssecscndaccdcstcrwcscarsescansdscsvenns 22; 1,580 | 22 | 1,390 140
Savoyards of Annecy : Ist SErie€S ... 02... <ccccse cence ncnctancaseccsecsccosennvosseccssses 9] 1,530} 6| 1,426 104
DE SOLIS os cc reet deste estacss seuss tacnenesesasbenemaucuacedaseces 7) 1,504) 2.) 1,891 163
Totalvofthe ta OISOViGs sc. o cree cece concecorecsccetesdssonesaveaccsccenevsiocsnvassunan 16; 1,588} 8] 1,417 121
Averpnats Of Sh. INC CLALIT Osi cacncsen ace secedensactcreseseweccsnescecce-cnasstuecanshscuberaace 42} 1,609 | 36| 1,445 153
Croats of the military border, AUSETIa.............02.-cccccsssnecncscssveccesesescansnee 9] 1,423] 2] 1,480| —d7
BAS BVO vONS...:.sccsacsecaccocteccchescsscassemeenecccrecsrccuncsdrseses-sunecen/cenedeccrcnbbacavace 382} 1,564 | 26) 1,366 198
IBrebtoums Galloteccercccc ces oeucone ced cndesedocscoantentecescossectecrsoneavesonestcceokssesesand 88 | 1,599 | 26) 1,426 173
PERL CHPBASOUES |< co esccsc conte ckeunescsenchocesnecdenccestecssscvdecnescencecsescnthecascuceucesese 81} 1,544) 16] 1,298 246
SpaMIBDPBSSQues ze seenccores accanceacatcsnesecusateccencenccoestrascssccnadteste-suclisrwucsacereany 80 | 1,584 | 23] 1,395 189
IWOTSCSEIUG cp dnaccnces scuscdcssveccansavcccccsaccs sesacecacMinvsneacussusuethonedcsnacchcnsesnianncstng 15] 1,552 |} 8] 1,367 185
WAT su pe eet eae catninc or a crue Soccclvachcevenavesoucsccscsacssesseben teense tearedensccn cosas cencosuiconanrars 15} 1,474] 3} 1,322 152
Wieyphians Ov GM Ay Mast ynn-sc..cencessessescos-nccsterectencccavsentccensevaaneeaathetananes 21} 1,532 |18] 1,397 135
SRO UW TASEY <c.s cece acectscecsgnsanencerkvesubecunseccenecedcdcersevescecemaceas 12] 1,443 }17) 1,328 115
PiGias Sone Pa EEE ARLE Le 9| 1,464] 9] 1,323] 141
LUE) Sh aCe eee RS A ce nu “COLAO en AC OEE ESO DO DELE EOL HOE CDE DaCECLDOECE 4| 1,558] 1| 1,695 | —187
MP UITICOSERA eee sao cr ee arc ces near cosasd nic suc cabcntoce meron eta ot twuaedscuatonecarereacdsteecait ese 4] 1,637} 3] 1,352 285
CHIN GSE), ceecscrccheccsnsevscsscrscenscscssenscesccccnancenescnenstrenboteseaccsenccsrecWuascnssssenctncn 16 | 1,518] 6] 1,383 135
BrP nC Vos CCED Rn ee eT POT IR ROU RG BREE Aone be or |18|-1,590| 6] 1,396] 194
Polyneslaneten etic sts seikccsisvobscaccsestivvdestsaat tages sista see eeereee ee /91| 1500/15] 1,381] 119
USICITIOS cccvcconcancmenestececastennccenscsesecutoveetesteten sence ccena Masteesteccconctohberstetenen | 9} 1,535] 9] 1,429 106
Pariahs of Alipoor, Calcutta.........csseeseeceseees Selec cobeocsaccssdcesceuserncsscheeees 17) DS8BNh eS 222
ANTHROPOLOGY.

Broca’s measurements of cranial capacity—Continued.

GAY

ey

. . . o

| & 5 g a

Nationality, &c. He) a a1) |) =

IN Went =I | Mi ho

=) & =] 0) =

A = A ied A

Cue: OO One
African ING gTOes's IStISOLlOS:.c.c<scciscs-sesneccssccsedcacsscsscoccesvcocseacbenccuscdesotextes $1 | 1,462 | 12) 1,267 195
DAIS CLICS cer reccarsecsctrecseccecrs cceecesceanesaccctacen eaten eoeene sores 10 | 1,423) 7] 1,246 77
3d series 1,410] 4] 1,237 17
FQ iPr ois eiccac ek ote ctiesdaasseses Stag) ee eases eopocacee
Hottentots and Bushmen. 1,317 | 5] 1,253 64
Nubians of Elephantine... 1,329 | 6] 1,298 81
New Caledonian............... ae 1,460 | 23} 1,330 130
CRAGIN AMS Ore concsacccenceevacs cience sic cuceretesrdeccocstactebusacceancosas suede condetanencracesincs 1,406} 4] 1,230 176
ATO ALIS LUN T Otatersoate-en vanes sonsoresoccerecsencavensourcveressucsssennesseedersossecsenertcs Mile A467 oS 279 188
PANIBEY MILATIS ee oee soos tonec syne cssncesssccecesees cuans cans voecesecceeeselescscsuaccecevssveavanaccries 10 | 1,347] 6} 1,181 166
i] .
(Rev. d@ Anthrop, 1882, v, p. 898.)
List of measures and craniometric processes of Broca.
A.—Sex. 4
B.—Age.

C.—Capacity.
D.—Antero-posterior diameter, maximum.
E.—Transverse diameter, maximum.
100 E

ma
G.—Antero-posterior inial diameter,
H.—Difference D—G.
I.—Bi-temporal diameter.
J.—Bi-auricular diameter.
K.—Difference E— I.
L.—Frontal diameter, minimum, inferior.
M.—Stephanic diameter, superior.

N.—Frontal index, a

F.—Cephalic index,

0.—Frontal index, No. 2, 10 =
P.—Vertical or basilo-bregmatic diameter.
Q.—Vertical maximum diameter.
100 P

D

R.—Vertical. index,

S.—Transverso-vertical index, =e P.

T.—Naso-basilar line, (NB).

U.—Length of basilar apophysis (Bb).
V.—Difference between T— U. (WN0D.)
X.—Anterior projection of the skull (Binmenbach).
Y.—Posterior projection of the skull (Blumenbach).
Z.—Total projection of the skull (Blumenbach).

a,.—Basilar index, 100 X ;

/.—Foramen magnum, longitudinal.

y.—Foramen magnum, width.

00 y
p

6.—Foramen magnum, index, ~

€.—Basilar are, T+ 3.
H. Mis. 26——41
642 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882.

€.—Projection of occipital crest, upper occipital curve.
7.—Projection of the inion, external occipital protuberance.
6.—Asteric diameter, or occipital maximum.
2.—Metopism, difference between D and the antero-posterior metopic diameter.
A’,—Sub-cerebral frontal curve, from root of the nose to the ophryon.
B’.—Frontal cerebral curve, ophryon to the bregma.
C’.—Total frontal curve, root of the nose to the bregma.
D’.—Parietal curve, bregma to lambda.
E/.—Upper occipital curve, lambda to inion.
F’.—Cerebral occipital curve, inion to opisthion.
G’.—Total occipital curve, lambda to opisthion.
H’.—Supra-auricular transverse curve.
J’.—Sub-auricular transverse curve.
K/.—Total transverse curve.
L’.—Horizontal pre-auricular curve.
M’.—Horizontal post-auricular curve.
N’.—Total auricular curve.

/
P’.—Ratio, sa
Q’.—Total cerebral curve, O’ — A’ — Ophryon to inion.
- 100 B?
R’.—Ratio, ede.

S’.—Fronto-sub-occipital curve, O’ + F’, root of nose to opisthion.
T’.—Vertical circumference, E+ 8’, total antero-posterior, including foramen magnum
and naso-basilar line. —

U’.—Anterior or pre-auricular demi-circumference, C’ + T’.

= LOO NUZ
V’.—Ratio, a a
W’.—Point of the face where the prolongation of the plane of the foramen magnum falls.
X’.—First occipital angle, or angle of Daubenton.

Y’.—Second occipital angle, or angle of Broca.

Z’.—Basilar angle, or angle of Broca.

FACE.

I.—Biorbital external length.
II.—Biorbital internal length.
III.—Distance of the supra-orbital foramina.
IV.—Distance of the sub-orbital foramina,
V.—Bimaxillary minima.
VI.—Bimaxillary maxima.
VII.—Bimalar diameter.
VIII.—Bijugal diameter.
IX.—Bizygomatic width, maximum.
X.—Orbital width.
XI.—Orbital height.
XII.—Orbital index.
XIII.—Orbital depth.
XIV.—Nasal bone, median length.
XV.—Nasal bone, lateral length.
XVI.—Nasal bone, upper width.
XVII.—Nasal bone, minima width.
ANTHROPOLOGY. 643

X VIII.—Nasal bone, inferior width.
XIX.—Interorbital width.
XX.—Width of the anterior nostrils.
XXI.—Height from the root to the anterior nasal spine.
XXII.—Height from the anterior nasal spine to the alveolar points,
X XIII.—Height from the root of the nose to the alveolar point.
XXIV.—Height from ophryon to alveolar point.
XXV.—Height of the os male.
XX VI.—Orbito-alveolar height.
XX VII.—Mastoido-supra auricular height.
XXVIII.—Auriculo-jugal distance (oblique).
XXITX.—Auriculo-orbital distance, right (oblique).
XXX.—Auriculo-orbital distance, left (oblique).
XX XI.—Depth of the zygomatic fosse.
XXXII.—Palatine vault, total maxillo-palatine length.
XX XIII.—Palatine vault, anterior maxillary length.
XXXIV.—Palatine vault, posterior width.
XXX V.—Palatine vault, width to the level of the 1st molar.
XXX VI.—Palatine vault, width to the level of the os incisif.
XXX VII.—Palatine vault, depth.
XXX VIII.—Distance from the posterior nasal spine or palatine to the basion.
XXXIX.—Width of the alveolar arch inwards, and maximum.
XL.—Width of the alveolar arch inwards and backwards.
XLI.—Height of the posterior nares.
XLII.—Nasal index, 100XX.
XXI
100 XXIV
Fit

XLIV.—Palatine index, 100 XXXIV.
XXXII

XLII.—Facial index,

(Rev. d’ Anthrop., 1882, pp. 577-590.)

Anthropometry is one of the youngest scions of anthropology, and it
not only commends itself to advanced students, but is applicable to
millions of subjects, and its processes are so easily understood that any
intelligent person may use them. As a result of greater definiteness in
processes a more accurate nomenclature is demanded. An illustration
of this is to be seen in the following classification of stature by Pro-
fessor Zoja.

Genera. Species. Vulgar terms.
Gigantosom,...........0...00008 Hypergigantosoma ............ Phenomena l.........0.0. sce cesees 2.51 et supra,
GizantOSOMA ......ceccescscosesees GrignGiocico os crccecceastacticcccenecbare 2.26 to 2.50
Hypogigantosoma 2.01 to 2.25
Mepasom si .coe-tiscescstcoscacess Hypermegasoma.. 1.91 to 2.00
Megasoma............ 1.81 to 1.90
Hypomegasoma... 1.71 to 1.80
IMGSOSOMO2.2..secccsetsrceccscacese Hypermesosom 1.66 to 1.70
Mesosoma............. ane 1.65
Hypermesosoma..........0..000 1.64 to 1.60
IMICTOSOMAN.ccccncsccecenstesceaes Hypermicrosoma............... 1,59 to 1.50
IMGrOSOMA «cz csescereccccssdccrese 1.49 to 1.40
Hypomicrosoma .. 1.39 to 1.25
INANOSOMS. «...ccs<cosescseccstces Hypernanosoma.. 1.24 to 1.00
Nanosoma............ 0.99 to 0.75
Hyponanosoma.... 0.74 et infra.
644 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882.

It is not advised that this scheme be adopted without reservation,
yet it does show a permanent advance in anthropometry. Further-
more, it is drawn up for Italians, but this need not embarrass the stu-
dent, since he will only need to fix his standard mesosoma and arrange
above and below that according to the scale.

IV.—PSYCHOLOGY.

The most perplexing of all the outstanding problems in anthropology
is the explanation of the processes of feeling, thinking, and volition.
On the one hand it is maintained that in course of time it will be
shown that thought is a mode of material motion; on the other, this
incomprehensible phenomenon is remanded to the category of occult
properties, like cohesion and gravitation, which will ever elude our
grasp. However that may be, man will ever aim to think this unthink-
able, to achieve this impossible, and to reach after this unattainable.
In prosecuting researches with reference to the mind various avenues
of approach have been followed.

Out of the old phrenology has come the new, and several important
works have appeared upon cerebral localization in its various aspects.
The second part of H. C. Bastian’s publication upon the brain as the
organ of the mind was printed during the current year. Furthermore
a reference to the bibliography will reveal treatises upon brain-weight
and mind, heredity and psychology, growth of intellect, pre-natal educa-
tion, brain-functions, sensations and their translation into thought and
feeling, the various aspects of mind growth from infancy to maturity,
the accurate measurement of thought, or psychometry, the phenomena
of insanity as opening the door upon primitive man, and the exhibition
of intelligence in animals.

Speaking of the equivalents of consciousness in nature beneath man,
Professor Cope says: ‘“‘The utterances of Professor du Bois Reymond,
at the recent celebration of the birthday of Leibnitz at Berlin, should
have aclearing effect on the intellectual atmosphere of the evolutionists.
‘Consciousness,’ says one, ‘is to the progress of evolution what the
whistle is to the engine, that makes a good deal of noise but does none
of the work.’ Another says, ‘If the will of man and the higher animals
seems to be free in contrast with the fixed will of atoms, that is a delu-
sion provoked by the contrast between the extremely complicated vol-
untary movements of the former and the extremely simple voluntary
movements of the latter’ One authority tells us that consciousness
does nothing, and the other will have it that it does everything, rising
even to the autonomic dignity of a will for atoms. They agree in
believing consciousness to be a form of force; but they differ in that
the first authority thinks it all dissipated, while the other holds it to be
a link in a continuous chain of metamorphosis equivalent to every other
link. As usual, truth lies between these extremes. Says du Bois Rey-
mond, ‘More temperate heads betrayed the weakness of their dialectics
ANTHROPOLOGY. 645

in that they could not grasp the difference between the view, which I
opposed, that consciousness could be explained on a mechanical basis,
and the view which I did not question, but supported with new argu-
ments, that consciousness is bound to material antecedents.’” Professor
Cope says, “It will doubtless become possible to exhibit a parallel scale
of relations between stimuli on the one hand and the degrees of con-
sciousness on the other. Yet for all this it will be impossible to express
self-knowledge in terms of force. An unprejudiced scrutiny of the na-
ture of consciousness, no matter how limited that scrutiny necessarily
is, Shows that it is qualitatively comparable with nothing else.” (Am.
Naturalist, XU, p. 224.)

V.—ETHNOLOGY.

Stanford’s Compendium of Geography and Travel, for America, has
an appendix upon the native tribes of both continents. The material
was elaborated with considerable diligence by Mr. A. H. Keane, but
the work is far from complete, and abounds in errors. The Bureau of
Ethnology at Washington has had in preparation for several years a
card catalogue naming and describing every tribe and band of aborig-
ines ever known to have inhabited the North American continent. This
is now kept in the oflice for reference and emendations, but it is designed
to be published at no distant day.

Much valuable information has been added to what was previously
known of the range and subdivision of the Innuit by Mr. Ivan Petroff,
special agent of the Tenth Census. Mr. Petroff’s results and map will
be published in the volumes of the Tenth Census and by the Bureau of
Ethnology. The author says: ‘In thecourse of my explorations, extend-
ing over a period of several years, of all the coast from Bering Straits
to the vicinity of Mount St. Elias, and of the river systems, I found the
Innuit occupying the coast and interior wherever nature has thrown
no obstacle in the way of free navigation in their kayaks. The tribes
having their homes contiguous to the Innuit are the Chugach, of purely
Innuit extraction; the Oreghalentze, of Innuit extraction, but now
mixed with Thlinkit; and the Chilkhaat tribe of the Thlinkit family
settled on Comptroller Bay and up the left bank of Copper River. The
skulls of Innuit have been found as far south as Santa Barbara islands,
California, but these belonged to prisoners taken from sea-otter hunt-
ing expeditions undertaken by Englisb and American shippers who
were furnished with Innuit hunters by the Russian authorities at Sitka.
We have every reason to believe that formerly the Innuit occupied the
coast as far as Icy Bay, but the constant pressure of the stronger Thlin-
kit tribes has caused them to recede gradually to the locations occupied
by them at the present day. The glaciers at Icy Bay have proved an
insurmountable obstacle, necessitating a sea voyage of two or three
days beforelanding. The Thlinkit can accomplish this in his large dug-
out provided with masts and sails. The Russians kept back the Thlin-
646 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882.

kits, but now they are encroaching northward. Mr. Petroff opposes Mr.
Dall’s view of the origin of the Eskimo, and maintains that they moved
southward after the invention of the kyak. (Am. Naturalist, xx1,
pp. 567-575.)

Our stock of knowledge gained respecting the South American tribes
during the past year is exceedingly meager. Mr. Barney says respect-
ing the natives of Colombia: ‘‘The state of Panama contains about
30,000 square miles, one-third of which is uninhabitable; the residue at
the conquest (1502-1520) contained about 600,000 inhabitants in various
stages of culture, from dwellers in tree tops to a degree of civiliza-
tion very much superior to that of Briton at the time of the Roman
conquest.” The remainder of Mr. Barney’s paper is devoted to the re-
cital of the early history of these tribes, but as yet he has not told usa
word about the modern Indians. (Am. Antiquarian, Iv, Nos. 3 and 4.)

The Indians of the oriental province of Ecuador are divided into two
great classes, ‘‘ Indians” and “ Infidels” (Ancas, Infieles). The former
all speak Quichua, eat salt, and are semi-Christianized, whereas the
latter speak the many languages of their various tribes, do not eat salt,
and are not baptized. Among these are the Zaparos, Piojes or Santa
Marias, Cotos, Tutapishcus, Anhishiris, Intillamas, Mequanas, Copa-
lureus, Tamburyacus, Payaquas, Cauranos, Pucabarrancas, Lagarto-
Cochas, and Tagsha-Curarais. Most of these, except the first five, are
quite unknown, having been met with only on rare occasions by traders
and travellers. Some of the names given above may refer to the same
tribe. The “Indians” are the Quichua, semi-Christianized people, who
formed that portion of the once great Inca nation annexed by the mar-
riage of Huayna-Capac with the Scyri princess, Pacha. Mr. A. Simson
has given us a very minute description of these Napo Indians. (J. An-
throp. Inst., XII, pp. 21-27.)

Mr. Gatschet has brought together and published notices by several
authorities concerning white or light-colored Indians at the sources of
the Amazonas, in the Cordilleras of South America. (Ausland, p. 887.)

VI.—GLOSSOLOGY.

Mr. Horatio Hale, the ethnologist of the Wilkes Expedition, read a
paper before the American Association upon Indian migrations as evi-
denced by language. The fundamental proposition is, ‘‘The only satis-
factory evidence of the affiliation or direct relationship of two commu-
nities, apart from authentic historical records, is their speech.” When
the evidence of language has satisfied us of the relationship of two
peoples, the next inquiry is, Which was the ancestral stock? Is the
connection that of brotherhood derived from a common ancestry?
Taking language as the guide, Mr. Hale seeks to track the wander-
ings of the Huron-Iroquois stock, or, as he prefers, the Huron-Cherokee
stock. The constant tradition of the Iroquois represents their ancestors
as emigrants from the region north of the great lakes. To test this
ANTUROPOLOGY. 647

question by language we have to inquire which is older—nearer to the
primitive speech—the Huron or the Iroquois.. Though we know nothing
of this speech, we can reconstruct it from its offspring, and the one
which is most complete in form and phonology is likely to be nearest
in structure and residence to the original speech. Mr. Hale examines
with great minuteness the forms of words common to the various
branches of this great stock, in order to show abbreviation and differ-
entiation as we proceed from the location of their supposed origin.
(American Antiquarian, Iv, Nos. 1 and 11.)

A language entirely new to science has recently been redeemed from
obiivion. It was spoken in two dialects on both sides of the Mississippi
River, between Natchez and Vicksburg, by the Taensa tribes mentioned
by the French explorers and colonists of the eighteenth century. The
manuscript of the Grammaire et Vocabulaire de la Langue Taénsa was pre-
pared for the press by MM. J. Parisat and Lucien Adam. Mr. Gatschet
informs us that the language forms a stock by itself and is remarkable
for its extensive power of compounding by prefixes, by a variety of
reverential pronouns, and by other forms. The number of terms em-
braced in the vocabulary is about 900. (Am. Antiquarian, IV, p. 238.)

The sources of information upon North American philology are the
Journal of Philology, published in Baltimore; the American Naturalist,
published in Philadelphia; and the American Antiquarian, published
in Chicago. The largest collection of manuscripts is in the Bureau of
Ethnology at Washington, a report of which is given in the first part
of this volume.

The most elaborate linguistic production of the year in our country
was the study of the Manuscript Troano, by Dr. Cyrus Thomas, with a
historical introduction by Dr. Daniel G. Brinton. The Codex Tro or
Troano was first published by the Abbé Brasseur (de Bourbourg).. On
his return from Yucatan, in 1864, he visited Madrid, and found this
manuscript in the possession of Don Juan de Tro y Ortolano. It con-
sists of 35 leaves of 70 pages, written on paper manufactured from the
leaves of the maguey plant. Dr. Thomas briefly summarizes his con-
clusions respecting the manuscript:

1. The work was intended chiefly as a ritual or religious calendar.
The day columns and numerals which form fully one-half of the written
portion are dates, which run through a cycle of three hundred and twelve
years, fixing the time when festivals should be held.

2. The figures in the spaces are in some cases symbolical, in others
pictographs, and, in quite a number, refer to religious ceremonies; but
in many instances they relate to the habits, customs, and occupations of
the people.

3. The work appertained to and was prepared for a people living in
the interior of the country, away from the sea-shore.

4. The people were peaceable, not addicted to war.

5. The taking of life, apparently of a slave, is indicated in one place;
648 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882.

this is the only symbol which can be construed to indicate human sae-
rifices.

6. The cross in some of its forms was in use as a religious emblem.

7. The movement of the figures is from right to left, and the plates
should be taken in this way, at least by pairs; yet, as a general rule, the
characters are in columns, to be read downward, columns following one
another from left to right. When they are in lines they are to be read
from left to right by lines from the top downward.

8. There is no fixed rule for the arrangementof the parts of compound
characters.

9. That the characters, while phonetic, are not alphabetic, but syllabic.

10. The work was probably written about the middle or latter half of
the fourteenth century.

11. The Ahau, or Katun was a period of 24 years, and the great cycle,
of 312; the series commenced with a Cauac year.

12. Brasseur was right in supposing it to have originated in Peten.
(Cont. to N. A. Ethnology, vol. v.)

VII.—COMPARATIVE TECHNOLOGY.

The transfer of General Pitt-Rivers’ collection to the university of Ox-
ford, during the current year, is an event which offers a fitting text on
which to rest the chapter on technology. This study includes every form
of human activity which demands a material upon which to operate
and implements for its prosecution. With the growth of society there
have been seasons of mutual helpfulness between the end to be attained
and its instrumentalities, wherein the better social order has invented
new tools; and, on the other hand, the improved invention has elevated
society. General Pitt-Rivers began many years ago to gather from all
parts of the world the implements of human warfare, arranging them,
regardless of tribes and areas, upon a theory of evolution, elaboration,
perfection. The same plan has been pursued in general and special col-
lections, resulting in a better knowledge of the progress of invention.
The motives operating in the works of men are two—the beautiful and
the good, the one resulting in art, the other in handicraft. The two can
hardly be separated except at their extremes, where the mere tool has no
symmetry or beauty, and where the chef @euvre has no useful function.
Both sorts have come over the same journey to their highest perfection.
The few titles cited in the bibliography appended to this paper must not
be looked upon as exhausting the subject. The enumeration of the titles
of works devoted to the history of technique would far transcend the
limits allowed to this entire paper. But, on the other hand, few writers
upon the history of useful or ornamental art seem to realize that their
subject has had an ontology and a phylogeny, that art itself has grown,
and that its growth has been indissolubly connected with the history of
humanity. Hence, most works on art or invention are not strictly an-
thropological, although their statements are of great value to the com-
ANTHROPOLOGY. 649

parative technologist. The arrangement of the National Museum upon
a technological, or anthropological basis is a work of the greatest mag-
nitude. Indeed, by this anthropocentric scheme of a new order, all that
is known or can be known may be grouped around man.

In discussing the origin and unfolding of styles in architecture, writers
innumerable have confined themselves to the historic period, and have
found in the rudest edifices of history the starting poing of subsequent
constructions. The Rev. Stephen D. Peet has gone a step backward
in this search, and from his familiarity with aboriginal and prehistoric
architecture is able to carry the investigation nearer toits source. By
analyzing the prehistoric works of America he hopes to discover what
are the essential elements of the higher orders, and so to gain hints as
to their origin. He maintains that the pyramid, the pier and lintel, and
the arch, as well as the column, have served an important part in arch-
itecture. The rudest predecessor of the true arch is to be seen at Ux-
mal, in the Algonquin huts, and in the conical bee-hive huts of Scot-
land. (Am. Antiquarian, IV, No. 4.)

A very interesting example of the aid of borrowed art in civilization
is given by Mr. Griffis in his work on Corea. ‘ Between the years 29
and 70, A. D., according to Japanese histories, an envoy from Shinra
(Corea) arrived in Japan, and after an audience had with the Mikado,
presented him with mirrors, swords, jade, and other works of skill and
art. In this we have a hint of the origin of Japanese decorative art.
It is evident from these gifts as well as from the reports of Chinese his-
torians concerning the refined manners, the hereditary aristocracy, and
the fortified strongholds of the Shinra people, that their grade of civili-
zation was much higher than that of their northern neighbors. It was
certainly superior to that of the Japanese, who were soon tempted to
make descents upon the fertile lands, rich cities, and defenseless coasts
of their visitors from the west.”

Mr. Theodor Baker is the author of a work published in Leipzig, en-
titled ‘Ueber die Musik der nordamerikanischen Wilden.” After ex-
amining forty-two songs and tunes obtained from at least twelve tribes,
he finds that Indian melodies can be expressed by our musical scale
and notes. Most of the tunes show an orderly movement, and the scales
are few in number. The majority of the tunes follow the Lydian scale
(c, d, e, f, g, a, b,c) and the Hypophrygian (g, a, b, e’,d’, e’, f’, 2’);
but in very few of them will be found all the seven notes of the diatonic
scale. Every melody has the quint, or fifth, with its key-note; one-half
of them have the major third, or diatone, while the flat or minor third
occurs in a few only; the fourth and the sixth frequently occur, but the
seventh note is infrequent. (Gatschet, in Am. Naturalist, XVI, p. 226.)

VIII.—SOCIOLOGY.

The catalogue of the Surgeon-General’s library at Washington is a
classified index of all volumes, pamphlets, and discussions upon any
650 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882.

part of anthropology which have found their way into that great col-
lection. Inthe Index Medicus, under “ biology” and “ physiology,” will be
found many references to sociological subjects, and in the volume of the
Index-Catalogue, issued in 1882, many more under the words ‘ circum-
cision,” “civilization” as related to medicine, ‘* cosmetics,” “cremation,”
“crime,” and “ criminals.”

The practice of polyandry is known to have existed in many tribes of
antiquity. Prof. John Avery has been collecting the evidences of its
existence in modern times. It isin that part of India where the popula-
tion is mostly non-Aryan and the influence of Hinduism is less prevalent,
that polyandry is best illustrated. It is practiced by some of the lower
agricultural castes among the Telugus, and by the Moplas and Nairs of
Malabar. The most noteworthy instance found in India is among the
rude tribe known as Todas. In case the husband of a female has
brothers they may be admitted to a share in the wife on payment of
their proportion of the dower. If they have sufficient means, they may
also each purchase a wife in the manner described, and take the other
brothers in as partners. Thus a group of brothers may in a perfectly
lawful way have several wives in common. If a husband dies, care is
taken that the widow shall not re-marry out of the family. (Am. Anti-
quarian, IV, pp. 48-53.)

One of the most thoughtful and philanthropic publications during
the year upon sociological subjects is a paper by Sir H. Bartle Frere, on
the laws affecting the relations between civilized and savage life, as
bearing on the dealings of colonists with aborigines. Is it possible for
an uncivilized race to continue to exist as uncivilized in the immediate
neighborhood of a civilized race? After reviewing with great learning
the immigration of the Aryan races into India and their contact with
the natives of the peninsula, the reservation plan of the Chaldzans,
Assyrians, Babylonians, Medians, and Persians, the shepherd kings of the
Egyptians, the early conquest of Greece, the conquests of Rome, and
especially the settlements of English colonies in America, India, and
Africa, the writer is led to the following conclusions:

1. That it is possible for the civilized to overcome and destroy by
war the uncivilized and savage race.

2. That simple proximity has led to the extinction of the savage race.

3. That the changes which have occurred in the native races conse-
quent upon the proximity of European colonists are an advance in civil-
ization and approximation to the types of European civilization.

4. That the essentials to development are:

a. Such a peace as the Romans and the English have insured to sub-
ject races, as a consequence of civilized sovereignty, bringing with it—

b. Protection for life and property, and practical equality before the
law, leading to a substitution of individual property for tribal commun-
age, involving the abolition of slavery, also private rights of making
war and of carrying private arms.
ANTHROPOLOGY. 651

c. Power of local legislation to secure educati n in the arts of civil-
ized life.

d. Legislation should also be directed to place such restrictions on
the sale of intoxicating substances as are needed to prevent the ruining
of health and the retarding the material welfare of the native com-
munity.

e. To secure all these objects an equitable form of civilized taxation
is needed, sufficient to meet the expenses of administration. (J. Anthrop.
Inst., X1, pp. 313-334.)

Following up the extended investigations of Mr. Morgan upon the
laws of consanguinity and affinity among the various peoples of the
earth, so many have become interested in the subject that several
attempts have been made to simplify the process of recording the results
by means of graphic signs. Major Powell, of the Bureau of Ethnology
at Washington, devised for his manual a series of charts on which, by
figures representing males and females, aided by colors and connecting
lines, the whole scheme of marriage and blood relationship could be
indicated. During the past year, Mr. A. McFarlane has fallen upon an-
other method. There are two fundamental relationships of the highest
generality, namely, child and parent. These can be combined so as to
express any of the complex relationships; thus, grandchild is child of
child; grandparent is parent of parent; brother or sister is child of parent;
and consort is parent of child, and so on. Now let ¢ denote child, p
parent, and juxtaposition equal of, then ce will equal grandchild, cp,
brother or sister, &¢. Having classified the relationships in the various
methods of which they are capable, Mr. McFarlane then introduces the
notation for sex, in which m denotes male and f female, placed before
the noun to which it relates, as me me, son of son, &c. Subsequently
the scheme is enlarged so as to include all degrees of compound relation-
ship recognized in the English laws of marriage and descent. (J. An-
throp. Inst., X1t, pp. 45-63, with charts.)

It is pretty well agreed that descent was first reckoned through
females, and that where descent through males exists, traces of the
former regulation are evident. How this change came about is un-
known, but it has excited no little curiosity among anthropologists.
Mr. Howitt and the Rev. Lorimer Fison have given much attention to
this subject among the Australians and the Polynesians. They term
the processes of transition ‘“‘orderly movements” and “disorderly
movements.” By orderly movements is meant a gradual and peaceful
change, resulting from the rise and growth of new ideas accepted by
the whole community. By disorderly movements is meant a rebellion
against law, successfully maintained; or the enforced segregation of a
part of the tribe, resulting in circumstances under which the old regu-
lations can no longer be obeyed. The examination of the Australian
system especially leads to the conclusion that the change from mother
right to father right may have been brought about not only by orderly
652 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882.

processes, but also by the violent action of impulses within the commu-
nity itself. (J. Anthrop. Inst., X11, pp. 30-46.)

As a preparation for the statistics of crime in the United States
for the Tenth Census, Mr. Fred. H. Wines prepared a pamphlet entitled
“The Nomenclature of Crime, or an analytical list of offenses against
the statutes of the United States and the States of the Federal Union.”
In the letter of transmittal, Mr. Wines suggests some cautions about
drawing conclusions concerning the criminality and morals of a State
from the number of arrests or imprisonments, that being punishable in
one State which is venial or differently treated in another. Before
speculating upon criminality, therefore, it is necessary to find out what
is considered to be crime. Nearly one thousand offenses are enumer-
ated and classified. An alphabetic index at the end of the pamphlet
enables one to find each crime and to study its relations. (I. H. Wines,
Til. State Bd. of Charities, Springfield, Ill.)

IX.—PNEUMATOLOGY.

Dr. Daniel G. Brinton’s American Hero-Myths is the most thorough
work upon American Indian religion which has appeared during the year.
Says the author: ‘ What I think to be the essence of all religions
is their supposed control over the destiny of the individual. At heart
all prayers are for preservation, the burden of all litanies is a begging
for life.” ‘At the foundation of all myths lies the mental process of
personification, which finds expression in the rhetorical figure of pros-
opopeia. Most of the American languages favor these forms of per-
sonification. Other rhetorical figures,—paronyms, homonyms, otosis,
polyonomy, and henotheism, have lent their aid in transforming what was
once commonplace or purely ideal into a concrete myth. The natives
of this continent had many myths, and among them there was one which
was very prominent. It is that of a national hero, their mythical civ-
ilizer and teacher of the tribe, who, at the same time, was often iden-
tified with the supreme deity and creator of the world.” Mr. Brinton’s
interpretation of these myths of Michabo, Ioskeha, Quetzalcoatl, Itza-
mua, Kukulean, and Viracochais as follows: ‘The most important of all
things to life is Light. This the primitive savage felt, and, personifying
it, he made Light his chief god. The beginning of the day served, by
analogy, for the beginning of the world. Light comes before the sun—
brings it forth, creates it, as it were. Hence, the Light-God is not the
Sun-God, but his antecedent and creator.” Out of this idea of dawn
and darkness, light and knowledge, Dr. Brinton brings his theory of the
creeds and cults of the North American aborigines. The same author
has published “The names of the Gods in the Kiche myths, and The
Chronicles of the Mayas,” Vol. I.

A very learned work on comparative religion is the volume of Hib-
bert lectures, by Dr. A. Kuenen, entitled “ National Religions and Uni-
versal Religions.” In 1874, by invitation of Dean Stanley, Prof. Max
ANTHROPOLOGY. 653

Miiller delivered a lecture on Missions, in Westminster Abbey. In this
address religions were classified into non-missionary and missionary
religions—the former including Judaism, Brahminism, and Zoroastri-
anism, the latter Buddhism, Mohammedanism, and Christianity. Dr.
Kuenen observes the subject from a somewhat different point of view;
that is, he does not ask them what they aim to be, but what they are
essentially. With respect to Judaism, therefore, he is led to a differ-
ent result, which in its prophetic element presents the character of uni-
versality. Mohammedanism, on the other hand, weighed in the Kuenen
balance is found wanting.

The Rev. J. Owen Dorsey, formerly missionary among the Omahas,
has been engaged for two years past under the direction of the Bureau of
Ethnology in collecting myths from the various Dakotan tribes among
whom he has labored. In this work he is assisted by others in the sev-
eral tribes on our reservations. The object of Major Powell in this is to
gather a very large quantity of well-recorded myths, from which a true
philosophy of American priscan religion may be deducted. Nothing
exhibits more plainly the oneness of the human race than a comparison
of myths. Turning to one of Mr. Dorsey’s Iowa traditions we read:
““Once upon a time there was a man whose family consisted of himself,
his wife, and a daughter about twelve years old, and a son three years
younger than the daughter. he father kills the mother, cooks her, and
gives her to the children for venison. The children pursue him like a
fate, are helped in their travels by the ghost of their mother, until the
tribe into which the father fled are brought to want.” The incident of
the naming of the animals is a very charming part of this story. This
body of myths will appear in Major Powell’s Contributions to North
American Ethnology. (Am. Antiquarian, Iv.)

The visit of Mr. Frank Cushing to the East with a band of Zuiis,
in order to pay their respects to the great Ocean, or Father of Waters,
was an event of no little importance in the history of mythology. Mr.
Cushing has temporarily expatriated himself in order to become familiar
with the Zunian social life. In this he has been most successful, having
been initiated into their mysteries and sacred orders. His researches
will form a part of the publications of the Bureau of Ethnology.

X.—HEXIOLOGY.

The amount of modifying influence which the conditions affecting the
respiratory and digestive organs of man are capable of exerting within
a given period of time is a subject of the utmost importance to the
anthropologist. Closely related to this inquiry is that which discusses
the unity or the plurality of human species. If the total force of the en-
vironment has been sufficient within the period of human existence to
bring about those hereditable characteristics which mark off the races
of men, then we have no need of two or five or many origins. On the
other hand, if the differentia of the races of men have the exalted value
b54 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882.

of those upon which students of natural history are wont to found spe-
cies—that is, if they were in existence before men were men, and were
not brought about since—then polygenism is the true explanation of
race difference. However that may be, the whole question depends
upon the proper study of environment as to its influence upon living
beings.

Of course, we may study this subject from two points of view. If a
balsam apple be allowed to grow in any bottle whatever, it will exactly
fill the space. Now, we may regard the bottle as shaping the apple or
the apple as fitting the bottle. Likewise with life and its environ-
ment. Professor Heckel calls this housekeeping of organisms, cecol-
ogy; Karl Semper, universal physiology; Mivart, hexicology. The
terms * biology,” ‘“ physiology,” ‘“ergology,” and even “ psychology”
have also entered into this scrutiny of organic beings in the presence of
environment. They also show the points of view from which the stu-
dent regards this complex relation.

In a discussion upon the growth of children, Mr. George W. Peckham,
of Milwaukee, takes up the relation of man to his surroundings. ‘The
size of an organism is the result of inherited tendencies as modified by
the two varying factors of waste and repair. To the sum of all the
conditions which regulate the rate at which reintegration and disinte-
gration take place the name ‘environment’ is zpplied. It occurs to me
that by far the greater portion of an incividual’s surroundings are de-
termined for him by the degree of density of population in the locality
in which he lives. That climate has any considerable effect in modify-
ing growth, in the face of facts, seems quite improbable. Theoretically
a low temperature ought to stunt men, since a large amount of energy
would be expended in maintaining bodily heat. Taking a wide survey
of the facts we find that the western Eskimo, the negroes of Guinea
the Australians, the Patagonians, and the Kaffirs all have an average
height of over 170 centimeters. In Europe the non-dependence of
stature upon latitude is patent. The rate of growth is such that the
boys are taller until the twelfth year and heavier until the thirteenth.
Between thirteen and fifteen the girls are taller and heavier; after
fifteen the boys exceed the girls in weight and stature. Children of
pure American descent are taller than children of foreign-born parents,
but are lighter than those of German parents. The‘height of American-
born men 1s more modified by conditions accompanying density than
by all other influences, race excepted; urban life tending toward a de-'
crease of stature.” (Sixth An. Kep. Wis. Bd. of Health.)

XI.—INSTRUMENTALITIES.

All sciences have their instruments of precision, which are but aids
to the perceptive faculties, the memory, and the reason. The anthro-
pologist, for each division of his subject, has his implements, his graphic
methods, and his symbols. It is very interesting to note how the per-
ANTHROPOLOGY. 655

fecting of these has kept pace with the improvement of each subject of
inquiry. Indeed, the great difference of opinion among the French and
the German craniologists is not so much respecting the importance of
certain parts as it is with reference to instrumentation.

One of the most useful aids to progress is co-operation and division
of labor. This is effected by societies and their publications. Indeed,
it may be safely said that this subject is sufficiently appreciated, and
the continuation of the present activity of harmoniously co-operating
societies will bring together a mass of well-conducted observations of
the highest importance. It is contemplated to organize an international
bureau of anthropological bibliography. This will be a work of the
highest usefulness, for which this and other summaries, the incomplete
efforts of individuals, are only the preparation.

BIBLIOGRAPHY OF ANTHROPOLOGY FOR 1882.
I.—ANTHROPOGENY.

ALLEN, GRANT.—Who was primitive man? Fortnightly, Sept.; Pop. Sc. Monthly,
Nov.

BASTIAN, C.—Des sensations et de l’intelligence chez les animaux. Rev. scientifique,
Paris, 1881, ii, 606-619.

Core, E. D.—The equivalents of consciousness. Am. Naturalist, March, 224-226.

DARWIN and Development.—See Catalogue of Surgeon-General’s Library, sub vocas.

GEGENBAUR, C.—Critical remarks on polydactyly as atavism. [Morphol. Jahrb., vi,
584.] J. Anat. Physiol., Lond., xvii, pp. 615-622.

HOVELACQUE, A.—Les débuts de Vhumanité. L’hommeprimitifcontemporain. Paris,
Doin. 8vo.

LAcASSAGNE, A.—Criminality in animals. Rev. scientifique, Paris, xxix, pp. 32-42;
Pop. Se. Month., Dee.

MACDONALD, GEORGE.—A sketch of individual development. Brit. Quarterly Rev.,
Jan.

ORNITHOPHILOS.—Philosophie ethnographique, comme quoi l’homme ne descend pas
du singe, mais de l’oiseau. Paris. 8vo.

PETTIGREW, J. B.—On man’s place in creation, his education and development from a
science point of view. Brit. Med. J., Lond., ii, 925-927.

Rei, H. A.—Man’s zoogenetic lineage. Kansas City Rev., July.

VINCENT, E.—Persistence of the central bone in the human hand. Reviewed by H. E.
Sauvage in connection with M. Cornevin’s “‘ Les ancétres du cheval.’? Rev. d’an-
throp., sér. 2, v, pp. 103-110.

WAGNER, M.—De la formation des espéces par la ségrégation. Rev. internat. d. se.
biol., Paris, ix, pp. 9-32.

WILson, A.—Chapters on evolution: A popular history of Darwinism and allied theo-
ries of development. N.Y. 8vo.

II.—ARCH Z0LOGY.

ABBOTT, C. C.—Traces of a pre-Indian people. Pop. Sc. Month., Jan.

AYME, Louis, U. S. A.—Notes on Milta, Oaxaca, Mex., with plan and measurements of
the ruins. Am. Antiquarian Soc.

AYRES, W. O.—The ancient man of Calaveras. Am. Naturalist, Nov.

BALDWIN, CoRNELIUs C.—Ancient burial cists in Northeastern Ohio. West. Res. &
N. Ohio Hist. Soc., No. 56.
656 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1982.

BARBER, EDWIN A.—Mound pipes. Am. Naturalist, April.

BARCENA, MARIANA.—Descripcion de un hueso labrado, de llama fésil, encontrado en
los terrenos posterciarios de Tequixquiac, Méx. Anales de Mus. nac. de Méx., tom
li, Entr. 7.

BEAUREGARD, OLLIVIER.—Discovery of an ancient city of the Incas, near Salta, Argen-
tine Republic. Upon the Indians of San Pedro de Laraos. Bull. Soc. d’anthrop.,
de Paris, Vol. v, sér. 3, pp. 341-345.

Ber, TH.—Nahuanuco. Bull. Soe. géog., 7° sér., iii, pp. 577-592.

BILLINGS, MELVIN O.—Ancient remains in Marion County, Kans. Kansas City Rev.,
August.

BosE, P. N.—Notes on some earthen pots found in the alluvium at Mahesvara (Mahe-
sar). 2pl. J. R. As. Soc. Bengal, parti, p. 226.

BRINTON, D. G.—The probable nationality of the mound-builders. Am. Antiquarian,
vol. Iv, No. 1.

CASE, THEO. 8.—Human footprints in solid rock. Ill. Kansas City Review, Dec.

CHAVERO, Ep.—La piedra del sol, estudio arqueologico. An. d. Mus. nac. de Méx.,
li, pp. 1-16; 107-126; 233-266; 291-310; 403-410. 1880-82.

CHARNAY, D&EstrE.—The ruins of Central America. N. A. Review, pt. x, April; Pt.
xa Inaliy::

CLARKE, JOSEPH THACHER.—Report on the investigations at Assos, 1881, with an ap-
pendix containing descriptions from Assos and Lesbos, and papers by W. C. Lawton
and J. 8S. Diller. 8vo. Flexible covers. pp. 215. Ill. Published by the Arch-
zological Institute of America.

CoLLETT, O. W.—Missouri archeology. Kansas City Rev., June.

CURRIER, J. MCNAB.—Stone implements from Bomoseen and Castleton Valleys, Vt.
A. A. A. §., Montreal.

DE Hass, WILLS.—Monumental and art remains in the Lake regions of Ohio, Penn-
sylvania, and New York. A. A. A. S., Montreal.

DONELLY, IGNATIUS. Atlantis: The antediluvian world. New York, Harper & Bro.
Illustrated. 490 pp. 8vo.

DoueG Las, A. E.—A find of ceremonial axes in a Florida mound. Am. Antiquarian,
iv, pp. 100-109. A. A. A. S., Montreal.

FISCHER, HEINR.—Bericht iiber eine Anzahl Steinsculpturen aus Costarica. [Abhandl.
d. naturw. Vereins zu Bremen, Bd. vii.] Archiv f. Anthrop., xiv, No. 1.

Ueber die mexikanschen Namen fiir Schmucksteine und metalle. Archiv f.
Anthrop., xiv, No. 2.

FISKE, JOHN.—The arrival of man in Europe. Atlantic Monthly, May.

FLINT, Dr. EARL.—Antiquities of Nicaragua. Origin of the Palenque builders. Am.
Antiquarian, fy, p. 4.

GRATACAP, L. P.—Paleoithic man in America. Am. Antiquarian, iv, p. 2-4.

HAYNES, H. W.—Some indications of an early race of men in New England. Proc.
Boston Soc. Nat. Hist., pp. 9.

Some recent studies in pre-historic Archeology. Internat. Rev., Sept.

HILDER, F. F.—Who were the mound-builders? Kansas City Rev., Sept.

Hints, R. E.—A pilgrimage to Teotihuacan. Am. Naturalist, December.

Homes, H. A.—Report of the commissioners on the correct arms of the State of New
York. Albany: Weed & Parson.

HOoNEGGER, J. J.—Allgemeine Kulturgeschichte. I. Bd., Vorgeschichtlich. Zeit., Leip-
zig: Weber, xxi, 406 pp. 8vo.

Hoy, P. R.—Who made the native copper implements? A. A. A. 8., Montreal.

Who built the mounds? Jd.

JAMES, JOSEPH E.—A prehistoric cemetery [at Madisonville, Ohio]. Pop. Sc. Mon.,

Feb., 1883.

eee ee
ANTHROPOLOGY. 657

KOLLMANN.—Das Alter des Menschen in Amerika. Deutsche Rev., Berlin, vol. vii, p.
127.

LACERDA, J. B. DE.—Documents pour servir 4 l’histoire de Vhomme fossile du Brésil.
Mém. Soc. d’anthrop. de Paris, 2°sér., ii, pp. 517-542, fig.

LAGNEAU, G.—De quelque phénoménes Pee ionanes! relatés par ‘Vhistoire paraissant
témoigner de la haute antiquitéde’homme. French A. A. S.: Compt. Rend., 1880,
ix, 791-798.

LENOOMAN, FRANGOIS.—The beginning of history. (Trans. by F. Brown.) New York:
Charles Seribner’s Sons, 620 pp. 12mo.

Lykins, WM. H. R.—On the mound builders’ knowledge of metals. Kansas City Rev.,
Jan.

MAcLEAN, J. P.—Were the mound builders Indians? Am. Antiquarian, iv, pp.
128-136.

MADGE, J. H.—Notes on some excavations made in tumuli near Copiapo, Chili, in June,
1880. J. Anthrop. Inst., vol. xi, No. iv.

MALER, J.—An important find. Anales d. Mus. nac. de. Méx., iii, p. 1.

MORENO, FRANCISCO P.—E] origen del hombre Sud-Americano, razas y civilizaciones de
este continente. Contribuciones al estudio de las colecciones del Museo antropolégico
y arqueolégico. Buenos Aires: Pablo E. Coni, 1882.

MORTILLET, GABRIEL DE.—Le préhistorique antiquité de Vhomme. Bibliothéque des
sciences contemporaines, Paris, 642 pp. 12mo.

Mound builders in California, relics of a race of. Kansas City Rey., September.

MUNROE, ROBERT.—Ancient Scottish lake dwellings, or crannogs. Withasupplementary
chapter on remains of lake dwellings in England. Edinburgh, 344 pp. 8vo.

NADALLAIC, MARQUIS DE.—L’ Amérique préhistorique. Paris, viii, 588 pp., — 219
ill. 8vo.

Paleolithic.—Archeological explorations of the Missouri River. Kansas City Rev., Jan.

PALMER, EDWARD.—Mexican caves with human remains. Am. Naturalist, April.

PEET, STEPHEN D.—Ancient temple architecture; The prehistoric architecture of
America; A clue to the early stages of historic architecture in other lands; The
origin of the architectural orders as shown by prehistoric work in America. These
papers all appeared in the American Antiquarian and Oriental Journal, vol. iv.

Primitive architecture in America, and the different stages and modes of life in

the prehistoric age. Wisconsin Acad. Sce., vol. v.

The different animals represented by the effigy mounds in the State of Wiscon-
sin. Wis. State Hist. Soce., vol. ix.

PHENE, J. W.—Onsome hitherto unnoted affinities between ancient customs in America
and on the other continents. A. A. A. S., Montreal.

Putnam, F. W.—The Maine shellheaps Rude pottery and implements of a prcHisiwis
age. Address before the Maine Historical Society, December 23, 1882. Portland
Advertiser, Dec. 23, 1882.

Archeological frauds. Science, vol. i.

The Damariscotta shellheaps. Portland Advertiser, Feb. 7, 1883.

Notice of sixty-eight Indian portraits, originals of plates in M’Kenney and Hall’s

‘Indian tribes of North America,’’ presented to Peabody Museum. Science, vol. i,

No. 3, p. 83. 1883.

Sketch of Lewis H. Morgan (prepared by request of council of Amer. Acad. of

Arts and Sciences.) Proc. Amer. Acad. Arts and Se., May.

XYVth annual report of the Peabody Museum of American Archeology and Eth-

nology. Cambridge, Mass.

The Madisonville cemetery. XVth An. Rep. Peabody Mus., p. 63, also Proce.

Boston Soc. Nat. Hist., vol. xxi, p. 216.

An account of stone implements found at Marshfield, Mass. Boston Ev. Trans-

scrip, Feb. 4, and Proc. Boston Soc. Nat. Hist., xxi, Feb.

H. Mis. 26 42

658 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882.

PutTNAM, I’. W.—The contents of eighty-four stone graves at Brentwood, Tennessee.
A. A. A. S., Montreal.

Discoveries of the remains of a log building belonging to the stone-grave period

in Tennessee. Id.

Account of three mounds explored in Ohio and Tennessee. Id.

On copper implements and ornaments from North America. Id.

Notes on the copper objects from North and South America, contained in the

collections of the Peabody Museum. XYVth An. Rep. Peabody Mus., pp. 83-148,

ill. See also Boston Transcript, Jan. 20.

On conventionalism in ancient Americanart. Communication to the Am. Acad-
emy of Arts and Sc., Feb.

RAv, CHARLES.—Articles on anthropological subjects contributed to the annual reports
of the Smithsonian Institution, from 1863-1877. Washington: Smithson. Inst., No.
440, x-169 pp. 8vo.

Observations on cupshaped and other lapidarian sculptures in the Old World and

in America. In vol. v, Powell’s contributions to North American ethnology, and

separately.

Indian stone graves. Am. Nat., Feb.

The Mount Pisgah (U.S.) stone carvings. Nature, July 13, p. 243.

Die Jadeitgegenstande des Nationals-Museum zu Washington. Archiv f. An-

throp., xxv, No. 2.

Review of ancient scottish lake dwellings, or crannoys, &c. The Nation, Oct.
26, p. 363.

Rep, H. A.—The prehistoric copper implement question. Kansas City Review, Feb.

Reiss, W., and A. StUBEL.—The necropolis of Ancon in Peru. A series of illustrations
of the civilization and industry of the empire of the Incas. Being the result of exca-
vations made on the spot. With the aid of the General Administration of the Royal
Museum of Berlin. Parts 5 and 6. Berlin: Asher & Co., 10 chromo-lith., 110
tables. Folio.

Reiss, W.—Ueber die Alterthtimer von Yucatan. Verhandl. Berliner Gesellsch. f. An-
throp., 1882, pp. 260, 261.

Rosny, LEON DE.—Essai sur le déchiffrement de l’écriture hiératique de 1’ Amérique
Centrale. Livraison 3. Paris: Maisonneuve. Folio.

Rust, H. N.—A find of chipped-stone articles on the Pacific Coast. A. A. A. S., Mon-
treal.

Remarks on the Davenport tablet. Jd.

SALMON, PHILIPPE.—Contributions aux études de classification paléo-ethnologique de
l’Age des instruments bruts. Rev. d’Anthrop., v, pp. 413-459.

SAN FRANCISCO CHRONICLE.—Relics of a race of mound builders in California. Kan-
sas City Rev., Sept.

ScHMIDT, EMIL.—Stone pots from Sondrio, Northern Italy. In XVth An. Rep. Peabody
Mus., p. 59.

SMITH, WORTHINGTON G.—Paleolithic implements of Northeast London. Nature,
Jan. 18, 1883.

SMUCKER, IsAAc.—Mound builders’ work near Newark, Ohio. Am. Antiquarian, iv.

SMYTHE, EGBERT.—Recent explorations in ancient Christian cemeteries. Am. Anti-
quarian Society, Worcester, Mass.

SNYDER, J. F.—The stone age in Africa. Kansas City Rev., July.

Who were the mound builders? Kansas City Rev., March.

STEARNS, ROBERT E.—On certain aboriginal implements from Napa County, Cal. Am.
Naturalist, March.

Strrrvup, M.—De Vantiquité de "homme dans la Grande Bretagne. French A. A. §.
Compt. Rend., 1880, ix, pp. 811-818.

Se ee
ANTHROPOLOGY. 659

THOMAS, Crrus.—See under Glossology. _
THuRM, E. F. 1v.—On some stone implements from British Guiana. J. Anthrop. Inst.,
vol. xi, p. 444.

III.—BroLoGy oF MAN.

ALLEN, HARRISON.—A system of human anatomy, including its medical and surgicai
relations. Sect. I. Histology. By E.O.Shakespeare. Sect. II. Bones and joints.
Phila.: H. C. Lea’s Son & Co., 241 pp., 42 pl. to.

Au.is, O. H.—Ambidexter. Ann. Anat. and Surgery, Brooklyn, N. Y., v, p. 228.

Brioxam, G. W.—Note on a Patagonian skull. J. Anthrop. Inst., xii, p. 28.

BoILEAv, J. P. H.—Brain weight and brain power. [Lancet.] Pop. Sc. Month., N.
Yi, xxi, sp 172:

Burt, W. J.—On the anatomical and physiological differences between the white and
negro races, &c. St. Louis Cour. Med., viii, pp. 416-423.

CHUDZINSKI, TH.—Contributions 4 Vétude des variations musculaires dans les races
humaines. Rev. d’anthrop., v, pp. 280-308, 613-627.

CHURCHILL, J. & A.—Table I. Of the average weight of the human body and brain.
London. Broadside folio.

Color and color-blindness, craniology, craniometry, cranium, cretinism, deformities, and
development.—See Cat. Surg. Gen’l’s Library, Washington, sub voces.

DELAUNAY, G.—De l’égalité et de ’inégalite des individus. Rev. scient., Paris, vol.
Xxix, pp. 255-259.

Discussion upon the relative weight of the brain. Bull. Soc. d’anthrop. de Paris, 3
sér., v, pp. 181-207.

FLESCH, MAx.—Untersuchungen iiber Verbrecher-Gehirne. Anatomische und anthro-
pologische Studien. I. Theil. Wirzb.: A. Stuber, 112 pp., 2 pl. 8vo.

FROHLICH, H.—Ueber den heutigen Stand der Brustmessungs-Frage. Aertzl. Int.-Bl.,
Munchen, xxix, pp. 69-74.

GIACOMINI.—Varieties of cerebral convolutions in man. Arch. ital. de biol., Turin, i,
pp. 231; 333.

GODET, R.—Les fonctions du cerveau. Bull. Soc. d. sc. nat. de Neuchatel, xii, pp.
277-686, 1 pl.

GRUBER, W.—Beobachtungen aus der menschlichen und vergleichenden Anatomie. 3.
Hft., Berlin. 4to.

HALDERMAN, D.—A brain weighing 61 ounces. Cincin. Lancet and Clinic, n. s., ix,
p. 75.

HAMmMonpD, W. A.—Hereditary tendency. J. Nerv. and Ment. Dis., N. Y., n. s., vii,
695-711.

HARRISON, J. PARK.—The projection of the nasal bones in man and the ape. Nature,
Jan., 1883.

HuceEr, P., and J. DALLEMAGNE.—Etudes sur les caractéres craniologiques d’une série
d’assassins exécutés en Belgique. Bruxelles: H. Manceaux, 64 pp., 5 pl. 8vo.
HERRICK, S. S.—Comparative vital movement of the white and colored races in the

United States. Camb.: Riverside Press, 6 pp.

His, W.—Anatomie menschlicher Embryonen. II. Lpzg. 8vo.

Hunt, T. §8.—The domain of physiology; or, nature in thought and language. 2d ed.,
Boston. 12mo.

Kate, H. TEN.—On the craniology of the Mongoloids. Berlin. 8vo.

KOLLMANN, Dr. BASEL.—Beitrige zu einer Kraniologie der europiischen Volker.
Archiv f. Anthrop. Continued from vol. xiii, No. 2, in vol. xiv, No. 1, pp. 1-40.

Dr LANESSAN, J. L.—Des mouvements et de la sensibilité chez les végétaux, d’aprés
les travaux récents. Rev. internat. d. sc. biol., Paris, x, pp. 385; 510. Extr. from
his ‘‘ La Botanique.’’
660 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882. .

MANOUVRIER, LEONCE.—Recherches d’anatomie comparative et d’anatomie philoso-
phique sur les caractéres du crane et du cerveau. Paris: Meulan, 117 pp. 4to.

—— Sur l’indice cubique du crane. French A. A. §., Compt.-Rend., 1880, ix, 869-873.

Martin, H. N., and A. W. MOALE.—Handbook of vertebrate dissection. Part 2: How
to dissect a bird. N. Y., 1882, 16mo.

MANUEL.—Du sens de la vue au point de vue anthropologique. French A. A.S., Compt.-
Rend., 1880, ix, pp. 798-805.

MEREJKOWSKY, C.—Sur un nouveau caractére anthropologique [la morphologie du nez].
Bull. Soc. d’anthrop. de Paris, 3. s., v, pp. 293-304.

Sur quelques cranes americains. Bull. Soc. d’anthrop. de Paris, 3. s., v, pp.
170-180.

MICKLE, W. J.—Cerebro-spinal localization, destructive lesions of encephalon; disease
of the cord. J. Ment. Sc., Lond., n.s., xxviii, pp. 65-68.

MixLucHo-MAcLay, N. von.—Bericht tiber Mika-Operationen australischer Einge-
borner. Ztschr. f. Ethn., Berlin, vol. xix, p. 26.

MILts, C. K.—The brains of criminals, ete. Med. Bull., Philad., iv, pp. 57-60.

MoLEscHort, J.—Untersuchungen zur Naturlehre des Menschen und der Thiere. 13.
Bd., Hft1. Giessen. 8vo.

OSLER, W.—On the brains of criminals; with a description of the brains of two mur-
derers. Canada M. and 8. Journal, Montreal, x, pp. 385-398, 2 pl.

PARKER, W. K.—On the morphology of the mammalian skull. Brit. Med. Journal,
pp. 262, 301, 337, 372, 419, 456.

PAssET.—Ueber einige Unterschiede des Grosshirns nach dem Geschlecht. Arch. f.
Anthrop., xiv, No. 1.

PETERSON, O. V.—Relative weight of infants Pa one year of age. Upsala Likaref.
Forh., 1882-83, xxiii, 1-31.

PHYSIOLOGICAL works published in 1831. J. piscine Lond., iii, Supplement, 1-75.

PoOESCHE, THEODOR.—Blondheit und Albinismus. Arch. f. ee Brnschwg., Xiv,
pp. 143-150.

PorTER, W.—Direct mensuration of the chest. Med. Herald, Louisville, iv, pp. 345-348.

Pozzi, SAMUEL.—Ethnic craniology, from MM. de Quatrefagesand Hamy. Rev. scien-
tifique, Dec. 16, 1882, and Jan. 13, 1883, with figures.

PRENTISS, D. W.—Hypnotism in animals. Am. Naturalist, Phila., xvi, pp. 715-727

QUATREFAGES, A DE., and E. T. Hamy. Crania ethnica. Les erfines des races
humaines décrits et figurés d’aprés les collections du Muséum d’historie naturelle
de Paris, et les principales collections de la France et dé l'Institut. Livr. 10-11
(fin de l’ouvrage). Paris. 4to.

Rawtis, A. O.—The teeth of the races. South. Dental J., Atlanta, i, pp. 309 ; 397.

RotH, EvGrn.—Ein Beitrag zu den Merkmalen niederer Menschenrassen am Schadel.
Arch. f. Anthrop., xiv, No. 1.

ScumiptT, E.—Ueber die Bestimmung der Schadeleapacitat. Arch. f. Anthrop., Baun-
schweig, xiii, Supplement, pp. 53-79.

SCHEVEKENDICKE, E.—Untersuchungen an zehn Gehirnen von Verbrechern und Selbst-
mordern. Wirzburg. 61 pp. 8vo. [Extr. d. Verhandl. d. phys.-med. Gesellsch.
za Wirzburg. |

Sruart, T. B. ANDERSON.—The curved hair and curved follicle of the negro. J.
Anat. and Physiol., xvi, pt. iii.

TOPINARD, PAUL.—De l’indice céphalique sur le crane et sur le vivant, d’aprés Broca.
Rev. d’anthrop., v, pp. 98-102.

La mensuration de la capacité du crine, d’aprés les registres de Broca. Rev.

d’anthrop., v, pp. 385-411.

Les laboratoires et la crfniologie. Rev. scient., Paris, xxix, p. 193.

Le poids du cerveau d’aprés les registres de Paul Broca. Rev. d’anthrop., v,

pp. 1-30.

ee

ANTHROPOLOGY. 661

ToPINARD, PAUL.—Liste des mesures et procédés craniométriques de Paul Broca, Rev.
d’Anthrop., v, pp. 577-590.

THoMA, R.—Untersuchungen tiber die Grésse und das Gewicht der anatomischen
Bestandtheile de menschlichen Korpers, in gesunden und im kranken Zustinde.
Leipzig: Vogel, 291 pp. 8vo.

WILSON, DANIEL.—Some physical characteristics of native tribes of Canada. Vice-
presidential address before Section H, A. A. A.S., Montreal, Canada, Aug., Repr.
Vol. xxxi. Proc.

Zoya, G.—Alcune varieta dei dentiumani. Pavia. 8vo. [Repr. from Boll. scient., 1881,
No. 3.]

IV.—PSYCHOLOGY.

BAsTIAN, H. C.—Das Gehirn als Organ des Geistes. 2 Thle. Leipzig: Brockhaus, viii,
388 pp. 8vo.

BERKLEY, H. J.—A contribution to cerebral localization. Med. News, Phila., xli,p.
61.

BLAISE, H.—Contribution 4 l’étude des localisations cérébrales. Gaz. hebd. d. sc. méd.
de Montpel., iv, pp. 483; 471.

Bryce, P.—A short study of some of the phenomena of mind. Tr. Med. Assoc. Ala.,
Montgomery, pp. 291-316.

Bona, MEYER J.—Hirngewicht und Seelenbegabung. Deutsche Rev., Berlin, vii, p. 395.

BuccoLta, G.—La dottrina dell’ eredita e i fenomeni psicologici. 2a ed. Palermo,
250 pp. 16mo.

Studj di psicologia sperimentale, ete. Torino. 8vo.

BuceKkE, R. M.—The growth of the intellect. Am. J. Insanity, Utica, N. Y., xxxix, pp.
36-54, 2 pl.

CLARK, F. C.—Prenatal education. Rep. Bd. of Health, R. I., 1881. Providence, iv,
pp. 231-254.

Du Bots, REYMOND E.—Psychologie. Assoc. des méd. militairesallemands. L’exercice.
Rey. scient., Paris, xxix, pp. 97-109. See also Pop. Sci. Monthly, Feb.

Estorc, A.—Nouvelle contribution 4 l’étude des localisations cérébrales. Montpel.
méd., xlviii, pp. 489-497.

EWALD.—Beitrige zur Lehre von den Gehirn-Functionen. Deutsche med. Wchnschr.,
Berlin, viii, p. 446. —

EXNER, S.—On cerebral localization. J. Physiol., Lond., 1880-82, iii, pp. 343-348.

Zur Frage nach der Rindenlocalisation beim Menschen. Arch. f. d. ges. Physiol.,
Bonn, xxvii, pp. 412-421.

Frr&, C.—Contribution 4 1’ étude de la topographie cranio-cérébrale chez quelques singes,
J. de Vanat., etc. Paris, xviii, pp. 545-563.

GALICIER.—La sensation cérébrale et ses conséquences philosophiques. Marseille méd.,
xix, pp. 590-594.

GALTON, FRANCIS.—Photographic chronicles from childhood to age. Fortnightly, Jan.

Gavoy, E.—Atlas d’anatomie topographique du cerveau et des localisations cérébrales.
Paris: O. Doin, 180 pp., 18 pl. Folio.

KRONER, T.—Ueber die Sinnesempfindungen der Neugeborenen. Breslau. aerztl. Ztochr.,
iv, pp. 37-41.

MANOUVRIER, L.—La question du poids de l’encéphale et de ses rapports avec ]’intel-
ligence. Rev. scient., Paris, xxix, pp. 673-683.

Mors, D. A.—Cerebral localization; temporo-sphenoidal lobe. Columbus, M. J., i, pp-
11-13.

PARI, A. G.—La psicologica scientifica. Pl.4and5. Psicometrie sull’ uomo, bambino,
fanciulle e preistorico. Udine. 8vo.

662 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882.

Pozzi, SAMUEL.—Upon the sclerosis of the cerebral convolutions among the insane, &c.
Bull. Soc. anthrop. de Paris, vol. v, sec. 3, p. 350.

PEABODY, G. L.—Sarcoma of the cerebrum, illustrating the doctrine of localization.
Arch. Med., N. Y., vii, p. 209.

PREYER, W.—Die Seele des Kindes. Beobachtungen tiber die geistige. Leipzig. 8vo.
RrBot, TH.—Diseases of the memory: an essay on positive psychology. International
Scientific Series, vol. xliii. London: Regan, Paul & Co. [Nature, Dec. 21.]

L’hérédité psychologique. 2°éd. Paris: G. Bailliére & Cie., 422 pp. 8vo.

ROMANES, GEORGE J.—Animal intelligence. New York: D. Appleton & Co. 12mo.
(Internat. Se. Series. )

SLATER, J. W.—Phrenology and animal psychology. J. Se., Lond., 3.s., iv, pp. 16-23.

SozinskrEy, T. S.—Mental aspects of infantile unfoldment. Med. & Surg. Reporter,
Phila., xlvi, p. 309.

Wunpt, G.—Problems in experimental psychology. Unsere Zeit. [Nodate found.]

V.—ETHNOLOGY.

Amicis, EDMONDO DE.—Morocco and its people. New York: G. P. Putnam’s Sons.

BANCROFT, H. H.—History of the PacificStates of North America. Vol. I, Central Amer-
ica. San Francisco: A. L. Bancroft & Co., 704 pp.

BARCLAY, EDGARD.—Mountain life in Algeria. London: K. Paul. 4to.

BARNEY, E. G.—The native races of Colombia. Am. Antiquarian, iv, pp. 169-178,
257-262.

BasTIAN, A.—Die Haidas. Verhandl. Berliner Ges. f. Anthrop., pp. 278-298 (1882).

BAXTER, SYLVESTER.—An aboriginal pilgrimage. The Century, Aug.

BEAUREGARD, O.—En Asie; Kachmir et Tibet; étude d’ethnographie ancienne et mo-
derne. Bull. Soc. d’anthrop., Paris, 3° sér., v, pp. 241-291.

BENI, C.—Notizie sopra gli indigeni di Mexico. Arch. per l’antrop., Firenze, xii, pp.
55-84.

BERTILLON, ALPH.—Ethnographie moderne. Les races sauvages. Paris: Masson,
viii, 312 pp., 115 il]. 8vo.

BIscHoFF.—Die Feuerlinder in Europa. Bonn.

Ueber die Geschlechts-Verhiltnisse der Feuerlinder. Kgl. Akad. der Wiss. zu
Miinchen, Feb. 11; also Hft. vi, p. 356.

Bock, CARL.—The Head Hunters of Borneo: A narrative of travel up the Mahakkam
and down the Barito; also journeyings in Sumatra. London: Samson, Lord & Co.,
30 colored plates, map, and other illustrations, 344 pp. gr. in 8vo.

BoNWICK, J.—First twenty years of Australia. A history founded on official docu-
ments. London. 8vo.

Borneo. Review of Parliament papers, Hatton, Carl Bock, and Burbridge. Edinburgh
Rey., July.

BRINTON, D. G.—The Maya chronicles; the original text of the Pre-Columbian annals
of Yucatan, with translation and notes. Philadelphia: H.C. Watts & Co., 1 vol. 8vo.

CAPELLO, H., and R. Ivens.—From Benguella to the territory of Yacca; description of
a journey into Central and West Africa. London: Sampson, Low & Co., 2 vols.
[Translated by Alfred Elwes, Ph. D.]

CARILLO Y ANCONA, CRESCENCIO. Geografia Maya. Anales d. Mus. nac. de Méx.,
tom. ii, entr. 7.

Carthage and Tunis.—Reviews of Smith, Meltzer, Playfair, Rae, de la Berge, and
Brunialti. Edinburgh Rev., Jan.

CxEssAc, Lion DE.—Renseignements ethnographiques sur les Comanches, recueillis de la
bouche d’un trappeur qui fut treize ans leur prisonnier. Rev. d’ethnog., Paris.
pp. 94-118.

a ="

ee

ne

a

=
ANTHROPOLOGY. 663

CuRISTISON, D.—The Gauchos of San Jorge, Cent. Uruguay. J. Anthrop. Inst., xi,
pp. 34-52. ;

CoaAN, Rrv. F.—Life in Hawaii; an autobiographic sketch of mission life and letters
(1835-1881). New York, viii, 340 pp. 12mo.

CoREA, Ethnology of. Rev. scientifique, xxx, p. 561.

Crorx, J. E. DE LA.—Etude sur les Sakaies de Pérak (presqu’ile de Malacca). Rev.
d’ethnog., Paris, i, pp. 317-341. Also Poisoned arrows, pp. 331-334.)

CUSHING, FRANK H.—My adventures in Zuiii. The Century, Dec.

The Zufii social, mythic, and religious systems. Pop. Se. Month., June.

The Nation of the Willows. [New Mexico.] Atlantic Month., Sept., Oct.

DENIKER, J.—Le peuple Tchouktche, d’aprés les derniers renseignements. Rev.
d’anthrop., v, pp. 309-325. Review of:

Nordenskjold’s ‘‘ Voyage of the Vega.’’
Hovgaard’s ‘‘Tjuktjerne.”’
Nordgqvist’s ‘‘ Zamietki o myeschnem pologenii,’’ &e.
* Almgqvist’s ‘‘Studien iiber Farbensinn,’’ &c.
Stein’s ‘‘Die Tschuktschen, &c.’’
Dall, ‘‘On the so-called Chukchi,’ &e.
Angoustinovitch, ‘‘Trijoda,’’ &c.
Die Expedition der Bremer geogr. Gesellschaft, &c.
With many references to older travelers and writers.

DOLLINGER, J. VON.—The Jews in Europe. Pop. Se. Month., July.

FLOYER, E. A.—Unexplored Baluchistan. A survey. London.

FONTPERTIUS, A. DE.—Les états latins de Amérique. Paris, 315 pp. 18mo.

FONTPERTIUS, F. DE.—Chine, Japon, Siam et Cambodge. Rev. Se., xxix, p. 246.

FRASER, JOHN.—The aborigines of Australia, Maitland. Institution ethnographique,
12 pp.

ForBES, L.—Les Utes de Colorado. Bull. Soc. d’anthrop. de Paris, v, p. 66.

Frost, J.—The history of Mexico and its wars, from the Aztec Empire to the Cortez con-
quest, the Spanish rule, the Mexican revolution, the Texas war, the war with the
United States, and the Maximilian invasion, together with an account of Mexican
commerce, agriculture, manufactures, exports, imports, duties, mines, cities, rail-
roads, treaties, topography, population, and thesocial condition of the people. Also,
embracing a directory of every city and post-office in Mexico. New Orleans. 8vo.

GATSCHET, ALBERT S8.—White Indians in South America. Ausland, pp. 887-890.

GAULTIER DE CLAUBRY.—Upon the races inhabiting French Cochin China. Bull. Soe.
d’anthrop. de Paris, iii, sér. 3, p. 377. There are five principal races in French
Cochin China enumerated.

GILLIAM, Prof. E. W.—The African in the United States. Pop. Sc. Month., Feb., 1883.

GRIFFIS, WILLIAM ELLIoT.—Corea : the hermit nation. New York: Charles Scribner’s
Sons, 400 pp., maps and ill. 8vo.

HALIBURTON, R. G.—Atlas and the Atlantes: 1. The Atlantes ; 2. The Guanches.

HARMAND, J.—Les races indo-chinoises. Mém. Soc. d’anthrop., Paris, 2° sér., ii, pp.
314-368.

Hicernson, T. W.—The first Americans. Harper’s Mag., Aug.

HOVELACQUE, ABEL.—Les races humaines. Paris: L. Cerf. 8vo.

JENKINSON, T. B.—Amazulu: The Zulus, their past history, manners, customs, and
language, with observations on the country and its production, climate, the Zulu
war, and Zululand since the war. London, 214 pp. 8vo.

KEANE, A. H.—Asia (Edward Stanford’s Compendiums of Geography and Travel, with
an ethnological appendix by A. H. Keane). London, 732 pp. 12mo., maps and ill.

KREILTER G.—A curious Burmese tribe. Pop. Se. Month., July.

KOLLMANN, J.—Les races humaines de l’ Europe et la composition des peuples. French
A. A. S. Compt.-Rend., 1881, Paris, 1882, x, 742-751.

664 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882.

LACERDA, J. B. DE.—Craneos de Maraca, Guyana Brasil eiva, contribugoés para o estudio
anthropologico das racas indigenas de Brasil. Arch. Mus. nac. do Rio Janeiro, iv,
pp. 35-45. ;

LAWES, W. G.—New Guinea and its people. Pop. Se. Month., Jan.

LANSDELL, HENRY.—Through Siberia. Boston: Houghton & Mifflin, 3d edition, ill.,
and maps, 811 pp. 8vo.

LE Bon, G.—Sur la formation actuelle d’une race dans les monts Tatras. Rev. scient.,
Paris, xxix, pp. 338.

LELAND, CHARLES G.—The Gypsies. Boston: Houghton, Mifflin & Co., 1882.

LE PLONGEON, A.—Vestiges of the Mayas ; or, facts tending to prove that communica-
tions and intimate relations must have existed in very remote times between the in-
habitants of Maya and those of Asia and Africa. New York, 86 pp. 8vo.

LuscHAN, F. von.—Die physischen Eigenschaften der wichtigsten Menschenracen.
Wien. Med. Wchnschr., xxxii, pp. 1153; 1188; 1217; 1244.

MAN, E. H.—On the aboriginal inhabitants of Andaman Islands. J. Anthrop. Inst.,
xii, pp. 69; 117. ; ~
MARINON Y TuDO, S.—Fray Antonio Margil tiber die Lacandones, 1695. Ztschr. f.

Ethnol., 1882, pp. 130-132.

Metis Franco-Indian du nord-ouest de ’ Amérique. Rev. scientifique, xxx, p. 199.

MULLER, Fp.—Unter Tungusen und Jakutaten. Erlebnisse und Ergebnisse der Olenék-
Expeditionen der kaiserl.-russischen geographischen Gesellsch. in St. Petersburg,
ill., Leipzig: Brockhaus, x, 336 pp. 8vo.

MILLER, O. D.—Origin of the Egyptians, &e. Am. Antiquar., iv, No. 1.

MoNTANO.—Quelques jours chez les indigénes de la province de Malacca. Rev.
d’ethnog., Paris, pp. 41-56.

PETROFF, IvAN.—Alaska as itis. Internat. Rev., Feb.

The limit of the Innuit tribes on the Alaska coast. Am. Naturalist, July.

PINART, ALPHONSE.—Notices and vocabulary of the Guaymies Indians of Panama.
Paris: E. Leroux, 73 pp. 4to.

PooLE, Capt. D. C., U. S. A.A—Among the Sioux in Dakota. Eighteen months’ experi-
ence as an Indian agent. New York: D. Van Nostrand. 12mo.

QUATREFAGES, A. DE.—Nouvelles études sur la distribution géographique des Négritos
et sur leur identification avec les pygmées asiatiques de Ctésias et de Pline. Rev.
d’ethnog., Paris, pp. 177-225.

RAE, J.—On the conditions, &c., of some of the native tribes of the Hudson’s Bay terri-
tory. J. Soc. Arts, Lond., xxx, p. 483.

RAWLINSON, CANON GEORGE.—History of Ancient Egypt. Boston: 8. E. Cassino. 2
vols. 8vo.

RECLUS, ELIE.—The Andamans, or Mincopeis. Internat. Rev., April.

RIEGER.—Zur Frage der craniologischen Racenmerkmale. Sitzungsb. d. phys.-med.
Gesellsch. zu Wirzb.

ROEPSTORFF, F. A. vON.—Ueber die Bewohner der Niedbaun. Ztschr. f. Ethnologie,
Berlin, pp. 51-68.

Rowney, H. B.—The wild tribes of India. London: De la Rue & Co.

SCHREIBER, Dr. A.—Life among the Battas of Sumatra. Pop. Sc. Month., Nov.

STrEDA, Lupwia.—Ein Beitrag zur Anthropologie der Juden. Archiv f. Anthrop.,
vol. xiv, No. 1.

Simson, ALFRED.—Notes on the Napo Indians. J. Anthrop. Inst., vol. xii, No. 1.

TOPINARD, P.—De la république de VEquateur. Bull. Soc. d’anthrop., Paris, v, p.10.

VALENTINI, PHILIP J.—The Olmecas and the Tultecas: A study in early Mexican
ethnology and history. Translated from the German by Stephen Salisbury, jr.
Am. Antiquarian Soe.

VircHow, R.—Die Feuerliinder. Verhandl.d. Berliner Ges. f. Anthrop., p. 375. Also
skull from Madisonville, Ohio, and one from Casabamba, Colombia. Jd., p. 226.

ANTHROPOLOGY. 665.

WAKE, C. STANILAND.—The Papuans and Polynesians. J. Anthrop. Inst., xii, p. 197.

WILLIAMS, G. W.—The history of the negro race in America from 1619-1881. New
York. 8vo.

WiLson, DANIEL.—Some physical characteristics of the native tribes of Canada. Vice-
president’s address, A. A. A. S., Montreal.

Woop, C. E. 8.—Among the Thlinkits in Alaska. The Century, July.

VI.—GLOSSOLOGY.

ABBADIE, A. D’.—Sur lorthographie des mots étrangers. Bull. Soc. géog., Paris, 7°*
sér., iii, pp. 481-497.

BIKKERS, A. J. W.—Malay, Acheenese, Franch, and English vocabulary. Alphabetic-
ally arranged under each of the four languages. London, 364 pp. 8vo.

BIscHOFF.—Das Centralorgan des Sprachvermégens. Deutsche Rey., Berlin, vii, p. 121.

BRINTON, DANIEL G.—The Maya chronicles, No.1. Library of Aboriginal American
Literature. Philadelphia, 279 pp. 8vo.

CAMPBELL, JOHN.—Proposed reading of the Davenport tablet. Am. Antiquarian, iv,
pp. 145-153.

CHRISTALLER, J. G.—A dictionary of the Asante and Fanté language, called Tshi
(Chee-Twi). London, Triibner, xxviii, 672 pp. 8vo.

CHARENCEY, H. DE.—Dessignes de numération en Maya. Alm. con., 1881, broch. 8vo.

Du systéme de numération chez les peuples de la famille Maya-Quiché. Lou-

vain, broch. 8vo.

Des explétives numérales dans les dialects de la famille Maya-Quiché. Broch.

8vo.

Des couleurs considérées comme symboles des points de l’horizon chez les
peuples du nouveau monde. Paris, 1877, broch. 8vo.

Cust, RoBERT N.—The modern languages of Africa. Illustrated by a linguistic map
prepared by M. Ravenstein London, Triibner. cr. 8vo. See, also, J. Roy. As. Soe.,
xiv, pt. 2, April.

DELBRUCK, B.—Introduction to the study of language. London, Tribner, 156 pp.
8yo.

Dorsey, J. OWEN.—On the comparative phonology of four Siouan languages. A. A. A.
S., Montreal.

Duport, T. H.—Outlines of a grammar of the Susu language (W. Afr.). London,
28 pp. 12mo.

FALB, RUDOLF.—Das Land der Inca in seiner Bedeutung fiir die Urgeschichte der Sprache
und Schrift. Leipzig: Weber, xxxvi, 455 pp. 8vo.

FRANCO, P.—Noticias de los indios del departmento de Veraqua y vocabularios de las
lenguas Guaymi, Nortefio, Sabanero y Dorasque. San Francisco. 73 pp. 4to.
GABELENTZ, G. VONDER, and A. B. MEYER.—Beitrage zur Kentniss der melanesischen,

mikronesischen und papuanischen Sprachen. Leipzig. 8vo.

GATSCHET, ALBERT S.—Indian languages of the Pacific States and Territories and of
the Pueblos of New Mexico. Repr. from Mag. of American History, Apr. N. Y.,
A.S. Barnes & Co.

Wortverzeichniss eines Viti-Dialectes. Ztschr. f. Ethnol., Berlin, pp. 263-276.

Volk and Sprache der Timucua. Ztscher. f. Ethnol., Berlin, 1881, pp. 189-200.

Quelques noms géographiques du sud-est des Etats-Unis @ Amérique. Rey. de

linguistique, Paris, pp. 293-299.

Phonetics of the Kéyowé language. Amer. Antiquarian, pp. 280-285.

Supplement linguistics, pp. 401-485 of Capt. G. M. Wheeler’s vol. vii (reports)
4°; appeared (with the volume) in 1882 only, though dated 1879.

GEOFFROY, J.—De la connaissance et de la dénomination des couleurs dans l’antiquité.
Paris. 8vo. [Repr. from Mém. Soc. d’anthrop. ]

666 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882.

HALE, HoRATIO.—Indian migrations as evidenced by language. A. A. A. §., Mon-
treal.

InaLIs, J.—Dictionary of the Aneityumese language, also outlines of grammar, etc.
London. 8vo.

JASCHKE, H. A.—A Tibetan-English dictionary. London: Tribner, xxiv, 672 pp. 8vo.

Krapr, L.—Dictionary of the Swahilé language. London.

LANNING, C. M.—A grammar and vocabulary of the Blackfeet language. Fort Ben-
ton, Montana, 200 pp. 16mo.

MALLERY, G.—The gesture speech of man. Salem.

MAXWELL, W. E.—A manual of the Malay language. London: Triibner, viii, 182
pp. 8vo.

MULLER, FRED.—Grundriss der Sprachwissenschaft. Band. II. Wien: Holder. 8vo.
1. Abth.—Die Sprachen der australischen, der hyperborieschen, und der amerika-
nischen Rasse. 440 pp. 2. Abth.—Die Sprachen der attalayischen und der hoch-
asiatischen (mongolischen) Rasse. 416 pp.

NEWMAN, F. W.—The Numidian language. London: Triibner. 8vo.

PLATZMANN, JULIUS.—Glossar der feuerlindischen Sprache. Leipzig: B. G. Truebner,
lvi, 266 pp. 12mo.

Rosny, L. DE.—Les documents écrits de l’antiquité américaine. Compte-rendu d’une
mission scientifique en Espagne et en Portugal. Paris, 100 pp., ill. 4to.

Rovusou, A.—Note sur la faculté de Ja parole chez les mammiféres. Rev. internat. d.
sc. biologiques, Paris, x, pp. 345-350.

SmiTH, Mrs. E. A.—A few deductions from the dictionary of the Tuscarora dialect.
A. A. A. S., Montreal.

THOMAS, Cyrus.—A study of the Manuscript Troano, with an introduction by D. G.
Brinton, M. D. In Vol. V of Powell’s Contributions to North American Ethnol-
ogy. Washington: Gov’t Print. Off., and separately, xxxviii, 237 pp., 9 pl., and
101 figs. 4to.

WILLIAMSON, A. W.—The Dakotan languages and their relations to other languages.
Am. Antiquarian, iv, 110-128, and separate, Rock Island, Ill.

ZIEGLER, F.—Practical key to the Canavese language, Mangalore. Basel: Missionar-
buchh., vii, 91 pp. 8vo.

VII.—CoMPARATIVE TECHNOLOGY.

ANGELUCCI, A.—Del materiale e degli strumenti per scrivere usati dagli antichi e spe-
cialmenti dai Romani. Milano, iv, 192pp. 16mo.

ARCELIN, A.—The beautiful and the ugly in anthropology. Rev. d. questions sc.,
Bruxelles, Ap., p. 20.

BAKER, THEODOR.—Ueber die Musik der nordamerikanischen Wilden. Leipzig: Breit-
kopf & Haertel, 82 pp., 2 pl. 8vo.

Bapst, G.—L’orfévrerie d’étain dans Vantiquité. Rev. archiol., xliii, pp. 9-23, 226-
237.

BARBER, E. A.—Early European pipes found in the United States. Am. Antiquar.
iv, pp. 198-202.

BAUMANN, E.—Mecanica umana. Bologna. 8vo.

BAYLEY, Sir E. CLivE.—Art. I. On the genealogy of modern numerals. Part II.
Simplification of the ancient Indian numeration. J. Roy. As. Soc., xv, pp. 1-72,
Jan., 1883.

BouTKowskyY, ALEX.—Dictionnaire numismatique pour servir de guide aux amateurs,

experts, et acheteurs des médailles romaines impériales et grecques coloniales, avec .

indication de leur degré de rareté et de leur prix actuel aux XIX” siécle, suivi
dune résumé des ventes publiques de Paris et de Londres. [Fruit d’une travailde
14 ans.] Leipzig: T. O. Weitzel, 1-24 livr. 8vo.

Se a Fe ee ere ne

ANTHROPOLOGY. 667

CAZENEUVE, P.—De l’alimentation chez les peuples sauvages et les peuples civilisés;
conférence faite 4 la Faculté des sciences, le 26 février 1882. Lyon.

CHARENCEY, H. DE.—Du systéme de numération chez les peuples de la famille Maya-
Quiché. Paris. 8vo.

CHAVERO, ALBREDO.—La piedra del sol. Anales d. Mus. nac. de México, tom. ii, entr.,
7, México: Escalante. [Continued through several numbers. |

CoLLinoT, E., and A. DE BEAUMONT.—Ornéments tures, &c. Paris: Canson. folioseries
i-iv.

Corr, E. D.—On archaesthetism. Am. Naturalist, June.

Coury.—Le curare, son origine, sa nature. Rev. scientifique, xxx, p. 587. [See also Cat-
alogue of Surgeon-General’s Office, Washington, sub voces. ]

DRESSER, CHRISTOPHER.—Japanese arts. New York: Scribner & Welford: 8vo.

FERGUSON, JAMES.—History of architecture in all countries. New York: T. Y. Crowell
& Co., 1,300 pp. 8vo.

FLETCHER, Reema —On prehistoric trephining and cranial amulets. Vol. V, Powell’s
Contributions to North American Ethnology, 32 pp., 9 pl., 2 figs. 4to.

GARBE, RICHARD.—Die indischen Mineralien, ihre Nahmen und die ihnen zugeschrie-
benen Krafte. Leipzig: Hirzel, x, 104 pp. 8vo.

GRIFFIS, WM. ELLIoT.—The Corean origin of Japanese art. The Century, Dec. [See
also his work on Corea, published by Charles Scribner’s Sons, N. Y.]

PEET, STEPHEN D.—Ancient temple architecture. Am. Antiquar., iv, pp. 89-100;
208.

The origin of the architectural orders. Am. Antiquar., iv, p. 4.

PERKINS, G. H.—Notice of a collection of Sioux weapons and articles of dress. A. A.
A. 8., Montreal.

SHoRT, JOHN T.—Ohio: A sketch of industrial progress. Columbus: A. H. Smythe,
1882.

’ SmirH, J. Moyr.—Ancient Greek female costumes. -New York, Scribner & Welford,
112 plates, 30 ill., 1882. 8vo.

WHITTLESEY, CHARLES.—The cubit of the ancients. Am. Antiquar., vol. iv, No. 4.

VIII.—SocroLoey.

ALLEN, NATHAN.—The law of human increase. Pop. Sc. Month., Nov.

AVERY, JOHN.—Polyandry in India and Thibet. Am. Antiquar., iv, p. 1.

BRACE, CHARLES LorING.—Gesta Christi: A history of human progress under Christ-
ianity. N.Y. 8vo.

CAVERLY, R. B.—Indian wars of New England. Boston, 500 pp. 12mo.

Circumcision and civilization as related to medicine. [See Catalogue of Surgeon-Gen-
eral’s Library, Washington, sub voces. ]

CoRRE.—La mére et l’enfant dans les races humaines. Rev. internat. d. se. biol., Paris,
1882, ix, pp. 185; 377.

Cosmetics. Cremation and criminals. [See catalogue of Surg. Gen’l’s Library, Wash-
ington, sub voces.

DEBIERRE.—Constitution de la famille et de la société dans le monde primitif Indo-
Européen. Rey. internat. d. sc. biologique, Paris, ix, p. 281.

DorsEY, J. OWEN.—The kinship system and marriage laws of the Dhegiha. A. A. A.
S., Montreal.

DUGDALE, RICHARD L.—Origin of crime in society, III. Atlantic Monthly, Feb.

EGGLESTON, EDWARD.—The beginning of a nation. The Century, Nov.

ELLIS, GEORGE E.—The Red Man and the White Man in North America, from its dis-
covery to the present time. Boston: Little, Brown & Co., xv, 642 pp. 8vo.

FLETCHER, Miss ALICE C.—Home life among some of the Indian tribes. A. A. A.
S., Montreal.
\

668 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882. :

FRERE, Sir H. BARTLE.—On the laws affecting the relations between civilized and
savage life, as bearing on the dealings of colonists with aborigines. J. Anthrop.
Inst., xi, pp. 313-352.

On systems of land tenure among aboriginal tribes in South Africa. J. Anthrop.
Inst., xii, pp., 258-272.

GILLIAM, E. W.—The African in the United States. Pop. Sc. Month., Feb., 1883.

HALBERT, H. C.—Courtship and marriage among the Choctaws of Mississippi. Am.
Naturalist, March.

HaAmmonp, W. A.—A problem for the sociologists. N. Am. Review, exxxv, pp. 422-4382.

HARSHA, WILLIAM J.—Law for the Indians. N. A. Rey., March.

Howitt, A. W., and LORIMER FIsonN.—From mother-right to father-right. J. An-
throp. Inst., xii, No. 1.

JHERING, H. voN—Die kiinstliche Deformirung der Zinhne. Ztschr. f. Ethnol., Berlin,
xiv, pp. 213-262.

MACFARLANE, A.—Analysis of relationships of consanguinity and affinity. J. Anthrop.
Inst., xii, No. 1.

MaaitTor, E.—Recherches ethnographiques; le tatonage considéré au point de vue de sa
répartition géographique. French A. A. S., Compt. Rend., 1881, x, pp. 762-772.

MARTIN, ERN.—Les funérailles d’une impératrice de Chine. Rev. d’enog., Paris, i,
pp. 230-234.

MARTIN, W. A. P.—Traces of international lawin ancient China. Internat. Rev., Jan.,
1883.

METCHNIKOFF, LEoN.—La statistique des sexes au Japon. Rev. de 1’Extréme Orient,
Paris.

Otis, F. N.—Prehistoric syphilis; a tibia. Med. Rec., N. Y., xxi, p. 49.

POWELL, J. W.—Outlines of sociology. Saturday Lectures. Washington: Judd & Det-
weiler.

SEWARD, GEORGE F.—Mongolian immigration. N. A. Rev., June.

SPENCER, HERBERT.—Political institutions; being Part V of the Principles of sociology
(conclusion of vol. ii.) N. Y., D. Appleton & Co. 8vo.

Social forces in American life. Pop. Sc. Month., Feb., 1883.

The Americans. Contemp. Rev., Jan., 1883.

TyLor, EDWARD B.—Notes on the Asiatic relations of Polynesian culture. J. An-
throp. Inst., xi, p. 401.

WARD, LESTER F.—Scientific basis of positive politicaleconomy. Internat. Rev., April,
May.

WILSON, GEORGE S.—How shall the American savage be civilized ? Atlantic Monthly,
Nov.

Witson, J. Dove.—The origin of government. Contemp. Rev., Sept., 1882.

WINES, FRED. H. and WALTER B.—The nomenclature of crime, or an analytical list of
offenses against the statutes of the United States and the States of the Federal Union.
(Illinois State Board of Public Charities, Springfield, Ill.)

IX.—PNEUMATOLOGY.

ABBOTT, CHARLES C.—Idols and idol worship of the Delaware Indians. Am. Natural-
ist, Oct.

ApAms, W. H. D.—Curiosities of superstition, and some unrevealed religions. Lon-
don, 330 pp. 8vo.

Babu SARAT CHANDER Dus.—Contributions on the religion, history, &e., of Tibet. J.
As. Soc. Bengal, pp. 1-121, Part I.

Bartu, A.—The religions of India. Tr. by E. H. Winfield. London: Triibner. 8vo.

BASEVI, ABRAMO.—The philosophy of divination. Florence: Cellini. 8vo.

BAXTER, SYLVESTER.—The father of the Pueblos. Harper’s Monthly, June.

ANTHROPOLOGY. 669

BEAUREGARD, O.—Sur une pratique superstitieuse des Indiens de la Pampa. Bull.
Soc. d’anthrop. de Paris. 3.s., v, p. 48.

Bible myths and their parallels in other religions, &c. New York: J. W. Bouton,
1vol., 600 pp., Ul. 8vo.

BooDLE, R. W.—Natural religion. Pop. Sc. Month., Feb., 1883.

BoucHs-LECLERCQ, A.—Histoire de la divination dans lantiquité. Paris, 406 pp. 8vo.

BRINTON, DANIEL G.—American hero-myths, a study in the native religions of the
western continent. Philad.: H. C. Watts & Co. 251 pp. 8vo.

The books of Chilan Balam, the prophetic and historic records of the Mayas of

Yucatan. Philadelphia, 19 pp. 8vo.

The names of the gods in the Kiche myths, Central America.

The chronicles of the Mayas. Vol. I. Library of aboriginal American litera-
ture.

BUCKLAND, Miss A. W.—Surgery and superstition in neolithic times. J. Anthrop.
Inst., Lond., xi, pp. 1-21.

CEssAc, L. DE—Observations sur des fétiches de pierre sculptés en forme d’animaux,
découverts 4 Vile de San Nicolas, Cal. Rev. d’ethnog., Paris, pp. 1-30.

‘Davin, P. Rays —Origin and growth of religion. New York: G. P. Putnam’s Sons.
263 pp. 8vo.

Dorsey, J. O.—The sister and brother, an Iowa tradition. Am. Antiquar., iv, No. 4.

Faiths of the World. A concise history of the great religious systems of the world.
London, 440 pp. 8vo.

GATSCHET, ALBERT S.—Chief deities in American religions. A.A. A. §., Montreal.

HARLES, C. DE.—Du role des mythes dans la formation des religions antiques. Le Mu-
séon No. 1. Bruxeles, 1882.

HALEvyY, J.—L’immortalité de ’4me chez les peuples sémitiques. Rev. archéol., xliv,
pp. 44-53.

HATHAWAY, BENJAMIN.—The league of the Iroquois, and other legends. From the
Indian Muse. Chicago: S. C. Griggs & Co., 319 pp. 12mo.

HoFFMAN, W. J.—The aboriginal medicine man. West. Lancet, San Fran., xi, p. 436.

KEARY, C. F.—Outlines of primitive belief among the Indo-European races. London:
Longmans & Co., 550 pp. 8vo.

KNoRTZ, KARL.—Aus dem Wigwam. Ulzalte und neue Marchen und Sagen der nord-
amerikanischen Indianer wiedererzahlt. Leipzig.

Mythologie und Civilisation der nordamerikanischen Indianer. Zwei Abhand-
lugen. Leipzig. Pamph. 76 pp. 8vo.

KUENEN, A.—National religions and universal religions. (Hibbert lectureus, 1882.)
London, 350 pp. 8vo.

LILLI£, ARTHUR.—Buddha and early buddhism. New York: G. P. Putnam’s Sons.

MAcLEAN, J. P.—Jewish nature worship. The worship of the reciprocal principles of
nature among the ancient Hebrews Cincinnati: R. Clarke & Co., 22 pp. 16mo.

MENDOZA, GUMESINDO.—Mitos de los Nahoas. Anales d. Mus. nac. d. Méx., iii, p. 1.

MULLER, Prof. MAx.—Mythology among the Hottentots. XIXth Cent., Jan., 1883.

MILLER, O. D.—The divinity of the hearth. Am. Antiquar., iv, pp. 179-186.

PLACZEK, Dr. B.—Anthropoid mythology. Pop. Se. Month., Sept.

RALstTon, W. R. S.—Puss in boots. XIXth Cent., Jan., 1883.

REVILLE, A.—Histoire des religions. I. Les religions des peuples non-civilisés. 2
vols. Paris, vii-412, 276 pp. 8vo.

ROBINS, ELIZABETH.—Evolution of magic. Atlantic Monthly, May.

Rocuas, M. A. DE.—Trials by fire and fire jugglers. Pop. Sc. Month., Sept.

SANCHEZ, J.—Colossal statue of the goddess of water. Anales d. Mus. nac. d. Méx.,
Ts papl.

SSCHEUBE.—Le culte et la féte de l’ours chez les Ainos, avec queques observations sur les
danses de ce peuple. Rev. d’ethnog., Paris, i, pp. 302-316.

670 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882.

SHORTLAND, E.—Maori religion and mythology, illustrated by translations of tradi-
tions, Karakia, &c. London, 110 pp. 8vo.

SmiTH, Mrs. ERMINNIE A.—Beliefs and superstitions of the Iroquois Indians. A. A. A.
S., Montreal. ~

Pagan Iroquois festivals. Id.

Myths of the Iroquois. Am. Antiquar., iv., p. 1.

SWYNNERTON, CHAS.—Folk tales from the upper Punjab. Proc. As. Soc., Bengal, p.
106.

TEMPLE, R. C.—Some Hindu folk songs from the Punjab. J. R. As. Soc. Bengal, p.
151, Part I.

THuURM, E. F. 1f.—On the animism of the Indians of British Guiana. J. Anthrop.
Inst., May, xi, No. iv.

TIELE, C. P.—Comparative history of the Egyptian and Mesopatamian religions, &c.
Translated by James Balling. Boston: Houghton & Mifflin, xx-230 pp. 8vo.
TROWBRIDGE, T. C.—Mahommedanism and the Ottoman Turks. Reviews of Syed

Ahmed Khan Bahador and other historians. Brit. Quart., April.

WHITTLESEY, CHARLES.—The cross and the crucifix. A.A. A.S., Montreal. Pub-

lished in separate form.
Yarrow, H. C.—Some superstitions of the Sioux Indians. Am. Antiquar., iv, pp.
136-144,

X.—HEXIOLOGY.

BENSINGER, N.—Ot cheto zavisit rost chelovicka. [On what the length of the body in
man depends.] Med. Vestnik, St. Petersb., xxi, pp. 430; 346; 479; 525.

BorpiEeR, A.—Les milieux et la transformisme. Rev. scientifique xxix p. 238.

BowErs, Mrs. VIRGINIA K.—The bleaching of the Aryans. A. A. A.S., Montreal.

Climate.—See Catalogue Surg. Genl’s Library, Washington, sub voce.

CorRE, Dr. A.—De Vacclimatement dans la race noire africaine. Rev. d’anthrop.,
sér. 2, v, p. 31.

DoLLEy, CHARLES S.—Bacteria as beneficial and noxious agents. Rochester, N. Y.,
16 pp.

FAYRER, J.—Destruction of life in India by wild animals. Nature, Jan., 1883., pp.
268-270.

Hinaston, WM. H.—Influence of climate in Canada upon Europeans. A. A. A. S.,
Montreal.

LEGoyt.—Les influences du climat sur la vie des hommes et des races. Rev. scienti-
fique, xxix, p. 739.

PERRIER, E.—L’adaptation aux conditions d’existence. Rev. scient., Paris, xxx, pp.
833-839.

Proctor, R. A.—The influence of food on civilization. N. A. Rev., N. Y., pp. 547-563.

RAtTzEL, F.—Anthropo-Geographie, oder Grundziige der Anwendung der Erdkunde auf
die Geschichte. Stuttgart: Engelhorn, xviii, 506 pp. 8vo.

ZAVATTARI, E.—Di alcune cause che concovrono al deterioramente della specie umana.
Tortona. 8vo.

XI.—INSTRUMENTALITIES.

American Antiquarian Society. Proceedings 1880—’81. Worcester, 1882.

The American Antiquarian and Oriental Journal. Vol. IV. 356 pp., 8vo. Chicago, Il.
The Journal of the Anthropological Institute of Great Britain and Ireland. London:
Triibner & Co. In 1882 were published vol. xi, 3 and 4, and vol. xii, 1 and 2.
‘The American Journal of Philology. Edited by Basil L. Gildersleeve, Professor of

Greek in the Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore. Vol. ii, No. 4, Vol. iii, 1, 2, 3.

ANTHROPOLOGY. 671

Die antropologischen Sammlungen Deutschlands, en Verzeichniss des in Deutschland vor-
handenen anthropologischen Materials nach Beschluss der deutschen anthropolo-
gischen Gesellschaft zusammengestellt unter Leitung des Vorsitzenden der zu die-
sem Zwecke ernannten Commission. H. Schaffhausen. I. Bonn. II. Gottingen.
Ill. Freiberg i. Br. IV. Konigsbergi. Pr. V. Berlin.

“ARANA, DieGco BARRos.—Notas para una bibiliografia de obras anonimas i seudo-
nimas sobre la historia, la jeografia ila literatura de America. Santiago de Chile:
Imprenta Nacional, 171 pp. 4to.

Archeological Institute of America. Boston: First Annual Report of the Committee on
the American School of Classical Studies at Athens.

Third Annual Report of the Executive Committee. Cambridge. 8vo.

— Publications. Classical series, No. 1. Boston. 8vo. [See Joseph Thacher
Clarke, under Archzol. |

Astor Library. The Thirty-Fourth Annual Report shows the numbers of readers,
alcove readers, and accessions by classes, as archeology, ethnology, mythology, ete.

ATKINSON, W. H.—Three reports on nomenclature and terminology. Pp. 6, 12,6. 5
cents each. Noticed in Pop. Sc. Month., Oct.

BANCROFT, HUBERT HOwE.—History of the Pacific States of North America. Vol. I.
Central America. Vol. I. 1501-1580. San Francisco: A. L. Bancroft & Co., 704
pp. 8vo. [Bibliography, pp. xxv—Ixxii, nearly 2,000 titles. This work is the fruit
of great labor and cost. ]

BAUMGARTEN, JHS.—Amerika: eine ethnographische Rundreise durch den Kontinent
und die Antillen. Charakterbilder, Sittenschilderungen, Scenen aus dem Volks-
leben. Nach den besten und neuesten deutschen und auslindischen Quellen
bearbeitet. Stuttgart: Rieger, viii, 456 pp. 8vo.

BERTILLON.—De la méthode statistique dans l’anthropologie. Ann. de démog. inter-
nat., Paris, vi, pp. 69-100.

Le Musée d’ethnographie du Trocadéro (La Nature), 10 juin et 2 sept. 1882. .
2 pl.

Bibliotheca (Americana), 1883. Robert Clarke & Co., Cincinnati. 6,589 titles.

BOEHMER, GEORGE H.—History of the Smithsonian exchanges. From the Smithsonian
Report for 1881. Smithson. Inst., 1882.

Bulletin trimestriel des antiquités africaines, publié par la Société de géographe et
d’archéologie de la Province d’Oran. 1 fasc., July, 1882. Mayenne.

Cat, E.—Les grandes découvertes maritimes du 13. au 16. siécle. Paris: Degorce Cadot,
12mo.

Congrés intermational d’anthropologie et d’archéologie historique, session de Lisbonne.
Notes archéologiques sur le Portugal. Bull. de l’acad. d’archéol. de Belgique, 3
sér., pt. 2, xxiii. Amnvers, 1882,

CREVAUX.—Voyage dans |’ Amérique du Sud. Rev. scientifique, xxx, p. 822.

DELAUNAY, G.—De la méthdde en anthropologie. Bull. Soc. d’anthrop., Paris, 3s.,
Vv, p. 55.

DEL Lupo, M.—Contribuzione agli studj diantropologia. Firenze. 8vo. [Riv. sc. in-
dustr. di Firenze. |

DRAPEYRON, L.—En France et en Italie. Le Congres international de Venise. Paris:
Delagrave, br. in 8vo.; ext. Revue de Géog.

Ecole d’anthropologie. Paris.

Encéphale. A periodical in Paris. [Not seen. ]

FLETCHER, R.—Paul Broca and the French school of anthropology. Saturday Lectures.
Washington, pp. 113-142.

The French Association in 1882. Rochelle:

Pruniéres, Dr. Trépanation préhistorique.
Carret, Jules. Le goitrisme.

672 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882.

The French Association in 1882.

Manouvrier, Dr. Sur la force des muscles fléchisseurs des doits chez ’homme et chez
la femme, et sur le poids de l’encéphale.

Delaunay, Dr. Gaeton. Sur la gaucherie.

Bourgés, M. Essai de transformisme au point de vue spiritualiste.

Manouvrier. Grandeur comparé des diverses régions du crane dans les deux sexes.

Pruniéres, Dr. Bois rougés par les castors.

Blessure des os par des fléches en silex.

Buchon, Dr. Présence prolongée d’instruments en fer dans les os.

Fuchs, Edward. Une station préhistorique au Cambodge.

Leguay, M. Gravure des os par le silex.

GAFFAREL, P.—Les Américanistes. Rev. pol. et littéraire, xxviii, p. 600, 1881.

GALTON, FRANCIS.—The anthropometric laboratory. Fortnightly, March.

Globus. Illustrirte Zeitschrift fiir Lander- und Volkerkunde, mit besonderer Beriick-
sichtigung der Anthropologie und Ethnologie. Begriindet von Karl Andree. In Ver-
bindung mit Fachminnern herausgegeben von Dr. Richard Keipert. Erschiener ist:
Erster biss einundvierzigster Band complet. Verlagvon Friedrich Viewegund Sohn,
Braunschweig.

HARRISSE, HENRY.—Vie de Jean et Sébastian Cabot. Paris: E. Leroux, Bibliographs,
pp. 370-375.

Index-Catalogue of the Library of the Surgeon-General’s Office, United States Army.
Authors and subjects. Vol. III. Cholecyanin—Dzondi. Washington: Government
Printing Office, 1882. 1020 pp., 4to. [See sub voces: Circumcision, Civilization,
Climate, Color, Color-Blindness, Cosmetics, Craniology, Craniometry, Cranium, Cre-
mation, Cretinism, Crime and Criminals, Curare, Darwin, Deaf-mutes, Deformities,
Demonology, Development. ]

Laboratoire d’anthropologie de l’Ecole des hautes études, Paris. Lectures as follows:

M. Topinard, upon anthropometry.

M. Chudzinski, upon comparative anatomy.

M. Manouvrier, upon craniometry.

M. Hervé, application of the microscope to anthropology.

LETOURNEAU, CH.—Dictionnaire des sciences anthropologiques. Paris, 5° livraison.

LITTLEFIELD, GEORGE E.—Catalogue of books and pamphlets relating to the American
Indians, etc. Boston.

LUBBOCK, Sir JouN.—Origin of civilization. New edition. Published by D. Appleton
& Conny:

Mason, Oris T.—A scheme of anthropology. A. A. A. S., Montreal.

What is anthropology? Saturday Lectures. Washington: Judd & Detweiler.

MELLO, MorAES.—Revista da exposicao anthropologica braziliera. Rio de Janeiro:
Poriheiro, 4 fase., 1-16 ill.

MENDOZA, GUMESINDO, and JESUS SANCHEZ. Catalogo de las Colecciones historica y
arqueolégica del Museo nacional de México. Anales d. Mus. nac. de Méx., tom. ii,
entreg. 7.

MIKLUKHO-MACLAY.—Results of his ethnographic researches published in J. Straits
Branch, R. As. Soc., 1878 and 1879. [Nature, Dec. 7 and 12.]

Mottett, J. N.—Dictionary of words used in art and archeology. Boston: Houghton,
Mifflin & Co., 417 pp., 750 ill. 4to.

MuRRAY, JOHN O’KANE.—Catholic pioneers of America. New York: P. J. Kennedy,
300 pp. 16mo.

NoRDENSKJOLD, Baron A. E.—The voyage of the Vega round Asia and Europe. Lon-
don: Macmillan & Co. [Important for the tribes of northeastern Asia. ]

Neuva Reuvista de Buenos Aires. Dirijida por Vicento G. Quesada.

Peabody Museum. XVth annual report. Cambridge, vol. iii, No.2. [See Putnam,
under Archeology. ]

NL eh cdr a ee ag eas

Se ee ee

oS

ANTHROPOLOGY. 673

PitT-RIVERS, Maj. Gen. A.—Anniversary address to the Anthropological Institute of
Great Britain and Ireland. J. Anthrop. Inst., xi, No. 4.

Revue d’anthropologie.—11th year. Edited by Topinard, Paris.

Revue d’ethnographie.—Under the direction of Dr. Hamy. The first volume appeared
in bi-monthly parts in 1882.

PowWELL, J. W.—Contributions to North American Ethnology. Vol. V. Washington:
Government Printing Office. Containing papers by Rau, Fletcher, and Thomas.

SHEA, J. G.—Early Franciscan missions in this country. Am. Catholic Quart. Rev.,
Jan.

Société Américane de France. Paris, au bureau de l’Institution ethnographique. The
society has published Actes, Vols. I, II, and III, and Archives, series land II. The
first president, Aubin, was elected in 1857.

Société d’ethnographie Actes de la.—Compte rendue des séances: Notices scientifiques
discours, rapports et instructions; publiées par les secrétaires. VI, 3° partie. Paris.
8vo.

StTrepA, Dr. Lupwia.—Die anthropologische Ausstellung in Moskau, 1879. Archiv f.
Anthrop., xiv, pp. 258-325. [Excellent and exhaustive. ]

Der V. (russische) archiologische Congress in Tiflis, 1881. Jd., pp. 326-334.

TOPINARD, Paul.—L’équerre céphalométrique. Rev. d’anthrop., v, pp. 260-265.

Transactions of the Anthropological Society of Washington, years 1, 2, and 3. Feb.
10, 1879-Jan. 17, 1882. Washington: Judd & Detweiler, 142 pp. 8vo.

TRUBNER’S catalogue of dictionaries and grammars of the principal languages and dialects
of the world. 2ded. London: Triibner’s, viii, 170 pp. 8vo.

VigrcHow, RupoLr.—The Archeological Congress in Tiflis, 1881. (Ztschr. f. Ethnol.,
Berlin, 1882, pp. 74-111.)

WHITTLESEY, CHARLES.—List of the Whittlesey papers, a collection of all the publica-
tions of Col. Charles Whittlesey. Published by the Western Reserve Hist. Soc..
Cleveland, Ohio.

H. Mis. 26-43

“ ' i) H >
. Ma « 2
=
{
‘
‘
.
.
.
Fy
.
mk
.
*
‘ * }
«
AY

3

-

= *

PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY.

THE GUATUSO INDIANS OF COSTA RICA.
By Don LEON FERNANDEZ, of San José C. R.*

My expedition to the country of the Guatuso Indians resulted hap-
pily. We succeeded in penetrating to the very palenques (habitations)
of the Indians, who fled to the forest on our approach, having aband-
oned all their instruments, arms, provisions, and utensils. By follow-
ing the tracks of the Indians we managed to visit several of their pal-
enques, but it was not possible for us to surprise one of them. Notwith-
standing the ferocity and courage with which the Guatusos have been
credited, they made no attempt to resist or do us any harm, doubtless
because of our numbers, and that they took us at first for huleros (rub-
ber men), who are for them the creatures most abhorred, on account of
the depredations which have been committed, children seized and taken
to Nicaragua to be sold as slaves, men murdered, women violated, and
other cruelties committed which are hardly credible in this age.

After many excursions, during which we scoured the borders of the
rivers Pataste and La Muerte, the principal affluents of the Rio Frio,
both navigable, we encountered a party of Nicaragua huleros, who,
practiced in the business, had surprised an Indian and had him tied up
to a tree likea beast. After some information was obtained from them,
through respect for Senor D. B. A. Shiel, bishop of Costa Rica, who
was at the head of the expedition, they offered the Indian for use as a
guide in our excursions.

Another party of our expedition succeeded, the same day that we
met the huleros, in surprising another Indian who was secured after
much difficulty and resistance.

The two Indians were brought together in our camp, where we treated
them in the best manner possible. Giving them clothing and various
presents, we made them understand, through the means of the inter-
preter who accompanied us, that we were not huleros (chiuti) but brothers
(tzaca), that we were going to do them all good and deliver them from
the attacks of the huleros, and concluded by asking them to take us to
the palenques (upola) where their families were, that we might give
them the various objects which we showed, especially the knives and

* Translation of a portion of a letter written by Don Leon Fernandez, on November

24, 1882, to Dr. J. F. Bransford. \ ee
675
676 PAPERS RELATING FO ANTHROPOLOGY.

‘axes, with which they seemed so much pleased. They agreed to do so,
and next day we set out in search of their palenques, they serving as
guides.

They trifled with us, intending, once away from the camp, to escape,
and made us walk uselessly until 9 o’clock at night without having en-
countered a single Indian or seen a palenque. Our return to camp,
through the thick forest and the darkness of the night, we owed to the
ability of a Tucurrique Indian who accompanied us.

Convinced that we could do nothing through the two Guatuso In-
dians, we resolved to send them overland to San José with a part of
the expedition, while fourteen of us, taking advantage of the boat of
the huleros, embarked at the mouth of the Pataste to descend the Rio
Frio, then the San Juan, and to ascend the Rio San Carlos. It took us
sixteen hours to descend the river to the village of San Carlos, on Lake
Nicaragua. It is a splendid river, without a rapid, and the course of
the current is barely perceptible, with sufficient depth for navigation
by steamers for a long distance above the point of our embarkation.
Bordered by level and most fertile lands, as proven by the luxuriant vege-
tation, with abundance of fish and game, there truly may be enjoyed
those savage tropical scenes which, unfortunately, are disappearing, and
which are so keenly relished by those who, while appreciating the ad-
vantages of civilization, love nature.

Nothing of interest was observed in the descent of the San Juan and
ascent of the San Carlos.

The bishop had the two Guatuso Indians in his house for some time,
with others that we had managed to rescue, found in Nicaragua, that
had been seized and sold by the huleros. In company with them he
made a second expedition with brilliant results, as, this time, he man-
aged to see the greater part of the Indians in their own habitations, to
speak with them, and inspire them with confidence. On his return sev-
eral of the Indians accompanied him as far as the Rio San Carlos, where
has been established for them a depot of clothing and hardware. Par-
ties of Indians have continued to come to this post to provide them-
selves with hardware principally, and some have ventured as far as San
Ramon, but they have not yet had the boldness to come to San José, for
fear of the cold.

Some soldiers that were afterwards sent to the territory of the In-
dians to protect them against the incursions of the huleros were very
well received.

So it may be said that the conquest is made, and that the Republic —

has taken possession of a large and important tract of territory, which
is called to a prosperous and not distant future, especially in view of
the probability of the early opening of the Nicaragua canal.

The lands occupied by the Guatusos are very extensive, level, fertile,
and intersected by navigable rivers, with a slight incline from the
right bank of the San Juan River tothe central Cordillera, which divides
PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 677

the waters of the Atlantic and Pacific. It has all imaginable climates
between that of the fresh and bracing region of San José and the heat
of the borders of Lake Nicaragua.

The Guatusos cultivate largely the plantain, which is their principal
article of food, maize, cacao, zuca (manioca), tobacco, sugar-cane, cotton,
agi (chile), &e. They make hammocks and nets of cabuya (agave).
They are robust, agile, well formed, and of good character. They are
pure Indians and not white, as has been claimed, although in some
cases was noticed a trace of white or negro blood. Their number cannot
yet be approximately calculated, but is not less than six hundred.

I am now occupied in the study of their language, and hope to pub-
lish my results in the third volume of the “ Documentos.” *

NOTE, BY J. F. BRANSFORD.

Next after the Lacandones of Guatemala the Guatusos of eee Rica
have been the most mysterious Indians of Central America, and have
furnished material for numberless extraordinary stories by travelers in
that section. In finally settling the question of color, race, &c., Pon
Leon Fernandez and the bishop of Costa Rica have done a service to
science, but they have given a dreadful blow to future WRI) of enter-
taining yarns about Costa Rica and Nicaragua.

This tribe, spoken of as Guatusos or Pranzos, or Rio Frio Indians, in-
habit the valley between the main Cordillera, that strikes the San Juan
at Machuea, and the volcanic range, which, in northwest Costa Rica, is
near the Pacific. The valley is drained by the Rio Frio, which enters
Lake Nicaragua less than half a mile from the point where the San Juan
leaves it.

In looking up the literature on this subject, as well as on all questions
concerning Central America, we turn naturally to Squier,t and are re-
warded with asummary of what was known of these people up to 1858.

According to Mr. Squier, the first allusion to the fierce warriors of the
Rio Frio was in a report to the King of Spain about 1719, by Diego de
la Haya, governor of Costa Rica. Afterwards there was a legend that
they were descendants of Indians who withdrew from Esparza when it
was destroyed by buccaneers in the latter part of the seventeenth cen-
tury. In 1750 Padre Zepeda, a Franciscan of Guatemala, spent sev-
eral months with the Guatusos, who treated him kindly. He claimed
to have seen more than five hundred houses. In 1756 the guardian of
the convent of Esparza reported the results of Zepeda’s trip, and was
instructed to follow up the discoveries. He started, but got lost. In
1761 four men, spoken of as Sambos,i who were captured in the mount-

* Colleccion de Documentos para la Historia de Costa Rica, por Don Leon Fernandez.
San José, Costa Rica.

+ The State of Central America, by E. G. Squier. New York, 1858; page 405.

t That they were really Sambos is of course hardly probable.
678 PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY.

ains, were taken to Esparza and confirmed the account of houses, &c.,
given by Zepeda. They showed acquaintance with certain doctrines of
the church, which they said had been taught them by a Padre Adam.
This padre turned out to be a young man, who, after attending college
at Leon, for some reason fled to the Rio Frio country, where he lived
and died, not being permitted to return to his home. The cura of Es-
parza and a missionary started for the mysterious valley, led by the
Sambos, who abandoned them as soon as they were well into the forest.
In 1778 the enthusiastic Fraile Lopez made his first attempt to enter
the country, over Orosi, but failed. He next tried by boat up the river,
but at the sight of the first raft of the Guatusos, his boatmen turned
and paddled their best down stream, refusing to listen to his entreaties
to be landed. In 1782 he made a third attempt by way of Tenorio, but,
after wandering in the forest for seventy-five days, he came out on Lake
Nicaragua. In 1783 Tristan, bishop of Nicaragua, accompanied by
Lopez, made an expedition up the river. Lopez went ahead in a canoe,
and was attacked. Some of his men jumped overboard, and the others
dropped in the bottom of the boat. When the Guatusos saw the de-
voted friar standing with only a crucifix in his hand the shower of
arrows ceased and he was allowed to land. His canoemen hastened to
rejoin the bishop, and we hear no more of the heroic Lopez.

Finally, Col. Trinidad Salazar, of Nicaragua, informed Mr. Squier
that in 1849 he took two boats with soldiers up the Rio Frio. After
traveling for several days he was attacked from ambush, was wounded,
and his party repulsed.

Our next authority, Froebel, who visited Central America after Mr.
Squier, gives a version of Salazar’s experience, in which all were killed
except the colonel. He was informed that not only were no foreigners al-
lowed by the Guatusos to enter their country, but members of their tribe
who had been in captivity were killed when they returned. ‘They are
said to be of fair complexion, a statement which has caused the appel-
lation Indios Blancos, or Guatusos, the latter name being that of an ani-
mal of reddish brown color, and intended to designate the color of their
hair.’*

Froebel also gives the very romantic experience of a German youth
with these Indians—the Pocahontas story adapted.

Mr. Squier, writing again in 1860, says that the valley of the Rio Frio
‘Sis estimated to be at least 150 miles long by from 80 to 90 broad.” “Of
the Indians, called Guatusos, inhabiting this district, of whom nothing
is positively known, the most extraordinary notions are entertained by
the people of the adjacent states. They are reputed to be above the
ordinary stature, with comparatively light complexion, and red hair;
and tales are told of some of their women having been seen by hunters

* Seven Years’ Travel in Central America, by Julius Froebel. London, 1859; page
24. See also his Aus America, Leipzig.

PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 679

and others as fair and beautiful as the fairest Europeans.”* While
Mr. Squier gave no credit to such reports, he thought that in isolation
their character, habits, language, religion, &c., had probably remained
unchanged, and would reward the successful explorer.

Vigne, writing in 1863,¢ simply states that according to hearsay there
is a tribe of fair Indians, supposed to be descendants of Spaniards, two
days’ boating up the Rio Frio.

‘ That entertaining writer, Frederick Boyle, says: ‘‘ Everything con-
nected with this fierce race is enveloped in awful mystery, but it is
curious that all accounts give them an origin far from their present
seats. The story current in Costa Rica cannot fail to interest the Eng-
lishman, even if he be not converted to a belief inits truth. When Sir
Francis Drake retired to the Pacific shore after the sack of Esparza,
say they, a large body of his men mutinied in mad hopes of holding that
town against the creole forces, and resting peaceably there. Drake left
them to their fate. But when the Spanish army assembled and the muti-
neers found themselves nearly surrounded, they hastily retired through
the forest of Merivalles.”{ Their intention was to reach the Mosquito
coast, but they were never heard of in that region, and many people
believed that they stopped on the Rio Frio.

Another story given to Boyle, to account for the color of the Guatu-
sos, was that the Indians made a descent on Spanish settlements and
carried off thousands of women. That story was rejected. Before his
arrival in Nicaragua an American filibuster and three Frenchmen had
tried the river. After ascending for several days they rounded a sharp
turn and came suddenly on an Indian who was standing on his raft
spearing fish. Apparently not at all disconcerted he picked up his bow
and drew an arrow tothe head. Then for some reason dropped that arrow
and took another, but before he could shoot he was fired on and killed.
The white men not caring to encounter Indians of this resolute character
turned back. They described him as looking like a Comanche.

The naturalist Belt saw five Guatuso children in Nicaragua who had
the common Indian features, though he thought they seemed unusually
intelligent. He believed the name of the tribe had nothing to do with
the color of their hair, but had been acquired as in other cases where
the name of an animal is borne.§

Mr. William M. Gabb, who has given the best account of the Costa
Rica Indians,|| said he had seen several persons who had visited the
valley of the Rio Frio, but their stories were too wildly extravagant to
be entitled to repetition. General Guardin, President of Costa Rica,

* Historical Magazine. Boston; vol. IV, page 65. See also in Nouvelles Annales de
Voyage, 1856, tom. CLI, pp. 6-12.

t Travels in Mexico, South America, &c., by G. T. Vigne. London, 1863; vol. I,
page 77.

tA Ride Across a Continent, by Frederick Boyle. London, 1868; page xx of preface.

§ The Naturalist in Nicaragua, by Thomas Belt. London, 1874; page 38.

|| American Philosophical Society Proceedings. Phila.; vol. 14, page 483.
680 PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY.

told Mr. Gabb that the Guatusos encountered by him on a military expe-
dition in their country, were ordinarily of the color of Indians, but there
were some exceptions of comparatively white skins and brownish or
reddish hair. Guardin said that when Esparza was sacked by English
freebooters a number of the inhabitants, many of whom were white,
took refuge in the mountains and were heard of never more.

A Guatuso boy who lived for awhile at Alajulla was very sullen, and
neither coaxing nor threats could induce him to answer questions in re-
gard to the language of his people.

Mr. Gabb said that lately the rubber men had ascended the river in
their boats to a point within three days’ walk of Las Cruces, on the
Pacific side of the Cordillera, the once fearless warriors having tired of
the game of bows and arrows against buckshot and bullets.

The list of authors who have had something to say about these In-
dians is quite extensive, but I will give extracts from only one more—
the first to allude to white Indians on the Isthmus. Speaking of ocea-
sional specimens, Wafer says: “They are white and there are of them
of both sexes; yet there are but few of them in comparison of the copper
colored, possibly but one to two or three hundred. They differ from the
other Indians chiefly in respect, of color.” ‘ Rather a milk-white,
lighter than the color of any European, and much like that of a white
horse.” ‘Their bodies are beset all over with a fine short milk-white
down.” ‘ Their eyebrows are milk-white also, and so is the hair of their
heads, and very fine withal.”* He reported them smaller and less strong
than other Indians, and sluggish during the day, but skipping through
the forest as fast by moonlight as others did by daylight.

In late years the rubber hunters have ascended the river and roamed
the country, robbing and shooting until the formerly courageous Guatusos
seem utterly cowed. The writer of this note saw two in Nicaragua in
1877. They were rather darker than the average Indian. One of them,
a boy at Castillo Viejo, was decidedly intelligent, and from him were
obtained a number of words of his mother tongue, a list of which was
afterwards sent to Mr. Gabb.

Don Leon Fernandez started on his expedition in April, 1882, and
finally settled the question. And now we may look for an early and
satisfactory account of habits, &c., which have probably been preserved
nearly as they were when Columbus made his discovery.

Mr. Squier thought that as natives of Ometepe and Solentiname of
Aztec stock, were taken as interpreters on the various expeditions from
Nicaragua, the Guatusos would probably prove to be of kindred race; a
belief which was strengthened by the fact that the captured Sambos were
understood by the Indians of Esparza, who, if not themselves Nahuatls,
had settlements of that people in their neighborhood.

*"A New Voyage and Description of the Isthmus of America, by Lionel Wafer. London,
1699; page 134.

During five winters spent in the interior of Central America, the writer of this note
did not see an Albino among the Indians.

PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 681

Torquemada, in giving the traditions of the wanderings of the Cholu-
tecos or Chorotegas in Central America, says that one party left the
main body and reached the Atlantic. After following the coast of
Nicaragua and Costa Rica, they turned back across country in search
of the fresh water sea (Lake Nicaragua), of which they had heard so
much.* Possibly this party left settlers in the region of the Rio Frio.

However, light will soon be thrown on the subject by the study of their
language now prosecuted by Senor Fernandez.t

ANCIENT REMAINS IN WHITE RIVER CANON.
By R. T. Bron, M. D., of Camp Apache, Arizona.

Since writing the description of the ruins in White River Cafion in
1878, other discoveries have been made, an account of which follows.

In the autumn of 1878, two burial-places were discovered, one near the
ruins atthe mouth of the canon, about three miles down the stream from
Camp J. A. Rucker. This cemetery consisted of one hundred or more
tumuli of stones varying in height from one foot to three feet, and scat-
tered irregularly along a small valley.

Abovethe ruins at Camp Rucker, about three-fourths of a mile, the sec-
ond cemetery is to be seen on the left bank of White River. This burial-
place is situated onabluff about 60 feet above the bed of the stream. It
was covered with a growth of pines, some of which are over 18 inches in
diameter and many of them are growing out of the mounds. It wasin
this last-named cemetery that an excavation was made in the largest
mound, supposed to contain the remains of some notable person. The
length of the structure was about 15 feet, the breadth 8 or 10 feet, and
the height 4 feet. It was formed of cobble-stones thrown together. Af.-
ter the stones were removed an excavation was made 4 feet deep into
the soil. During the digging, at a depth of 18 inches, bits of broken
pottery were found, but no bones. Growing out of this mound was a
large pine tree, 4 feetin girth. In the immediate neighborhood of this
mound the piles were larger than at other places.

_Two or three smaller mounds near the mouth of the cafon were ex-
amined, and fragments of pottery were taken from each, but no bones
or any relics. The cemetery in the cation seems to have belonged to
the three settlements, as it is almost equidistant from each, about half a
mile. The one in the valley at the mouth of the cation must also have
belonged to the two or three settlements in its vicinity.

The remains of buildings are much more numerous than was indicated
in my last annual communication. On careful search they were found

* Monarquia Indiana, by Juan de Torquemada. Madrid, 1723; tom. 1, page 333.

+ Students interested in this and neighboring tribes will do well to consult Hubert
H. Bancroft, Native Races of the Pacific States, page 747, et seq; Wagner & Scherzer,
Costa Rica, &c., and especially Benzoni, who gives an excellent account of the expe-
dition of Gutierrez.
682 PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY.

to be scattered over more than 600 acres. They are not close together
or uniformly distributed, but in separate groups. Large quantities of
broken pottery are scattered around the foundations, some of it very
prettily marked. The foundations are similar to those previously de-
scribed. Rows of upright undressed stones, metates, anda few mortars
were discovered. One of the mortars, near a small stream, had been
hollowed out in a shelf of solid rock and was 300 feet distant from the
remains of buildings.

Judging from the pottery found in the tumuli, the people must have
cremated their dead and buried the ashes in urns without any of their
trinkets or other property. The large mound explored certainly had
not been disturbed, and yet revealed no relics.

The Apache Indians, who have inhabited this region since the com-
ing of the Spaniards, do not cremate the dead but bury in secluded
places, and singly; they endeavor to remove all traces of the interment.

In giving the number of the mounds IJ have not over-estimated, for
doubtless a careful search would reveal many more. Some of them are
quite small, not containing more than a ton of stone.

MOUNDS IN HENRY COUNTY, IOWA.

By GEORGE C. VAN ALLEN, of Mount Pleasant, Fowa.

The following is a description of three Indian mounds located on See-
tion 34, Township 72, Range 7 West, in Henry County, Iowa. The hill
is about 1,000 feet long, and 300 feet wide from the base on the east to
the fence on the west, and is about 120 feet above the level of the corn-
field. Major Bereman, of this place, visited these mounds in June, and
from one took out a quantity of bones, teeth, and charcoal. Some of
the bones were charred and some sticks only partly burned. There
seemed to be no order in the burial. The bones were nearly in a beap,
and showed that more than one person had been burned and buried
there. On July 20th a small party visited the place, took the measure-
ments, and made some further excavations, but found nothing beyond
some pieces of soft bone, a few bits of charred wood, and a pink-
ish-white arrow-head. No stones were found that seemed to us to have
been arranged in any order, but a few were scattered at random through-
out the mound. No.1 is 50 feet north and south by 41 feet east and
west; No. 2 is 43 feet north and south by 49 feet east and west; No.3
is 40 feet north and south by 40 feet east and west. The distances from
center to center are 107 feet and 50 feet. The height is from 43 to 5 feet
at the center. South of No. 3 are the remains of two mounds begun,
about one foot deep at the center.

ee ee ee ee

PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 683

MOUNDS IN CARROLL COUNTY, ILLINOIS.
By JAMES M. WILLIAMSON, of Thomson, Til.

In the town of York, Carroll County, Illinois, is a group of five very
remarkable mounds. They are situated on the bluffs, 300. feet above
the bottom-lands on the east side of the Mississippi River, from which
they are distant about 24 miles. They are built upon a high ridge of
ground running in a due line from southwest to northeast. The first
mound on the southwest is about 50 feet in diameter, and they grow
smaller until the last one of them is only 10 feet across.

In September, 1882, I procured help and opened the first one by dig-
ging a trench directly through, beginning on a level with the base of
the mound. After trenching about 8 feet we came to some fragments
of burned clay, the pieces being as hard as burned brick, and resem-
bling it very much in color. On digging in a little farther we came to
fragments of rotten bone and teeth, but soon met with other bones in a
better state of preservation. Digging in still farther we presently came
to a perfect charnel-house of bones, most of them well preserved. We
took them out as carefully as we could, and procured twenty-two
crania, some of them very large indeed, and many of them in a good
state of preservation and wel! shaped. All the other bones were in a
fine state of preservation, and I have no doubt that this mound yet con-
tains the skeletons of one hundred or more of the ancient mound build-
ers of Carroll County.

The next mound opened was the last of the five on the northeast end
of the ridge and is the smallest of the number. In this, at the depth of
63 feet, we came upon another mound or cist of burned clay, 34 feet
wide at the base, 74 feet long, and 20 inches high, this being so hard
that it was almost impossible to penetrate it; but by slow work we tore
it to pieces and found that it contained the remains of a body which had
been burned. I brought away many of the bones; they are charred and
very hard. Fragments of the skull are as tough as the thickest pot-
tery. Over this mound of burned clay were ashes to the depth of nearly
two inches, intermixed with charcoal. The body had evidently been
laid on the surface of the ground, and the clay packed around and over
it, after which the fires were kindled. This inside mound could have
been taken out whole if we had exercised forethought. The other three
mounds I have not opened yet, but shall do so in early spring. I ex-
pect from them some rich developments; they are all covered with
heavy timber and hard to get at, as many of the roots from the oaks
penetrate theskulls. Inside of the burned cist I found many fragments
of pottery and flint implements, convincing me that the class of mound-
builders inhabiting Northern Illinois broke all their implements, uten.
sils, ornaments, &c., at the time of burying their owners, for in all my
mound opening in this section I have never found a whole piece of pot-
tery and but few whole stone implements or ornaments, but vast quan-
tities of broken ones.
684 PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY.

MOUNDS OF THE MISSISSIPPI BOTTOM, ILLINOIS.
By Wm. McADAMS, JR., of Otterville, Ill.

The first exploration to be described relates to two remarkable mounds
the first of which is on the Illinois River bottom, 15 miles from the mouth.
It is oval in outline, 175 feet long and 50 feet wide on the level top, the
sides sloping gradually down to the bottom. At the depth of 16 feet we
came to a basin of clay filled with clean white sand. This basin was 25
or 30 feet long, and 20 wide. Covered up in the sand was a wagon-
load of raw material for stone implements, flints, quartz, chalcedony,
jasper, some of these in large pieces and very fine. The flint was from
broken nodules, three of which, weighing from 20 to 40 pounds, were
entire. These flint nodules were white without and dark brown within,
like the flintnodules in the chalk. Someof the material was blocked out
for implements. Lying on the sand were three large sea-shell vessels
holding two quarts each. At the north end of the basin were found two
skeletons in a sitting posture on the sand. - The one on the east was that
of an old man, judging from the teeth and obliteration of the sutures of
the skull. The skeleton at his side was that of a young woman with
beautiful even teeth. Around the neck of the old man was a string of
shell beads of curious form, the perforation not going entirely through
the bead, but out laterally. A few beads were scattered around. On the
old man’s breast was a circular plate of copper, about 4 inches across,
also an ornament of copper like a large sleeve-button or spool 2 inches
across the disks. These were much corroded. At the left side of the
old man lay a beautiful pipe of mottled catlinite in form resembling many
figured from the mounds, the curved base forming the stem. The skull,
which I was very anxious to preserve, was broken, but the upper portion
was saved. There were ashes and evidences of fire around the basin, in-
dicating that fire had been used in the funeral ceremonies.

The second was a remarkable mound previously unexplored, situ-
ated on the Mississippi bluff in Calhoun County, Illinois. It was nota
large mound, being only about 25 or 30 feet across the top, and 3 feet
high. The bones found in it were very old and much decayed, and there
seemed to be ten or twelve bodies buried in it. From this mound were
taken seven ceremonial axes. They are of porphyritic granite, and are
5 to 6 inches long. There were four of the regular axe pattern, and two
with narrow wings on the side of the central column, and one with jags
at the two ends, like feet. One is of quartz and the other two are of ava-
riety of quartzite. The lines on them are straight and true, the perfo-
‘ration passing through the center. They are very smooth and highly
polished. Four copper axes of the celt pattern were found, plainly show-
ing that they were hammered out from native ore. They are somewhat
corroded. Three spear-points, with notched bases 6 inches long, were
also unearthed, two of white jasper and one of red.

-
ee Se ae ee

PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 685

In addition to these our find included thirty-five chipped implements
of white chert, varying from 8 to 10 inches in length, three polished
axes, a plummet, and a stone tube. It is quite uncommon to find axes
ina mound. These were taken from the base of the mound. There
were no beads, shells, pipes, or ornaments found.

The country about the mouth of the Illinois and Missouri River is a
good locality for mound exploration, especially on the highlands, but
those in the bottoms are much the richest in relics. Fifteen miles from
the mouth of the Illinois River is a group of six mounds in the river
bottom; the largest of these was explored by the writer, and a pipe, cop-
per ornaments, shells, &c., recovered. A ceremonial ax, however, was
taken from a mound on the highland. On the Illinois River bottom, 35
or 40 miles from its mouth, is another group of eleven mounds, which
are larger than those of the first group. Arrangements have been made
with the owner of the field, and digging in them will soon commence.
Some of the most promising mounds, however, are within a day’s drive
of Otterville, on the American bottom, between Alton and Saint Louis.
Some valuable relics have been obtained here, yet very few, if any, of
these large mounds have been explored.

The mounds, group No. 1, described below are situated on the Illinois
River, 40 miles from its mouth. They are ten in number, and are in the
lowlands or bottom, just beneath a precipitous bluff and near the river

/bank.

An excavation was made in No. 8, 13 feet deep, which revealed ashes
in considerable quantity, alongside of which was an arch of flat stone
covering a skeleton not very well preserved. The skull was broken and
lying on a thin shingle-like piece of cedar, colored green with copper.
Some of the boves were green also, but no copper implements were found,
they being entirely oxidized. Nearly a quart of shell beads, some large,
others small, were found at the head as well as at the feet of the skele-
ton. An excavation in No. 7 to the depth of 13 feet revealed nothing.
No. 4 is a conical mound, flat on top with a depression in the center.
At the depth of 16 feet two crumbling skeletons were imbedded in a
light-colored marly earth, showing marks of stratification, as if water
had been used in its deposition. The white and dark colored lamine,
which J have not before seen in a mound, were not half an ineh in thiek-
ness. The same stratified earth was found near the skeleton in No. 8.
No relics of any kind except the human bones occurred in mound No. 4.

No. 2 is a double mound much lower in the middle, and seeming to be
two mounds joined together. In this an excavation was made 18 feet
‘deep, and tunnels carried under a good part of the mound, but nothing
of value was found except burned stones, some ashes, and a few river
Shells. The mounds were very hard, and the excavations were made as
we descended. Yet this long search yielded little or nothing. The au-
thor camped among the mounds with five young men, but in spite of
good tools the young men got discouraged, and further exploration was
686 PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY.

reluctantly postponed. The largest mound of the group, No. 1, is 20 feet
high, and unexplored, as are the remainder of the group not mentioned.

In mound No. 8, about 7 or 8 feet, below the surface we found two
skeletons, apparently an intrusive burial. With one were some arrow-
points and a piece of plumbago nearly an inch square. With the other
skeleton was an earthen vessel broken and crushed.

There are many mounds on the bluff adjacent to the group in the
bottom. They are composed of earth and flat stones, and from one of
them were obtained several perfect skulls, two of them very interesting
on account of their peculiar shape, one broad and flat, the other narrow
and long. From this mound was also obtained a fine piece of pottery
in good preservation and perfect, excepting a small piece broken from
the rim by the spade. - It is different from any hitherto found. The
vessel is of a dark, nearly black color, and seems to have been burned.
It contained the inevitable spoon of shell from the adjacent stream.
Near the vessel were secured flint implements, such as arrow-points,
scrapers, bunts, knives, &c. The skull was broken in many pieces and
beyond recovery. The flint and shell-spoon on one side have a siliceous,
stony crust. This incrustation is also on the inside of the earthen vessel.
From the fields in this vicinity were obtained a number of stone imple-
ments.

ABORIGINAL REMAINS NEAR NAPLES, ILL.
By Joun G. HENDERSON, of Winchester, Ill.

A number of years ago Dr. Clark Roberts, of Winchester, Il., had
in his possession some singular pipes, which upon examination proved
to be relics of the mound-builders. This, however, is a rather unfor-
tunate title, as the history of nearly all savage races shows them to have
been mound-builders. Thesame locality, by disease, famine, emigration,
or war, may have been depopulated and again repeopled by other races,
each of which in its turn may have erected mounds for religious pur-
poses, as sites for temples or dwellings, points of observation or monu-
ments over dead heroes. The word mound-builder, therefore, is calcu-
lated to lead to error by the implication that the habit of mound-build-
ing was peculiar to one prehistoric race, and that all the mounds of the
great valley of the Mississippi are relics of one lost and forgotten people.
In this paper the term mound-builder is applied to no particular race or
nation, but to those who in ancient times occupied the Mississippi Valley,
and there erected earthworks of any kind.

As the bulk of all that is known of the ancient inhabitants of this
valley, especially of their curious and beautiful pipe-sculpture, was ob-:
tained by Squier and Davis from the mounds of Ohio, the importance of
the discovery of similar articles on the banks of the Illinois River, the
ancient Heukiki of the Algonkins, was fully appreciated by the writer,

PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 687

and Dr. Roberts kindly placed them at his disposal, giving all the in-
formation he could relative to them. The relics were obtained from a
mound at Naples, Ill., where several years ago the writer resided and
heard of the finding of these relics, especially the turtle-pipe. Dr.
Roberts’s courtesy determined at once a visit to the place in order to

examine caretully the character of the mound, and to find anything

MAP OXVILLE He
OF EIGHT MILES OF THE

ILLINOIS VALLEY.

SCALE

Map. Fig. 1.

that had been overlooked or thrown aside by the parties who first ex-
plored it. Accordingly, in February, 1876, in company with Mr. Mer-
rill, the author visited the spot with the necessary implements for
making a thorough examination. On a sand ridge, about one mile
southeast of Naples and about three-quarters of a mile from the river,
688 PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY.

are five mounds, represented in the accompanying map, Nos. 1, 2, 3, 4, 5.
The river bed is near the center of the space between the bluffs or
highlands, which are at this place 7 or 8 miles apart.
The following figure shows the relative position of the bluffs, river
bottom, river bed, and sand-ridge on which the mounds are located:

Fic. 2. Section of bluffs, &c., on Illinois River.

Nos. 2 2 represent the bluffs capped with loess ; 3, the river bed, and
5the sand ridge. This ridge is between a fourth of a mile and half a
mile in width, about 30 feet higher than the level lands on either side,
and runs a little east of north, parallel with the river. The mounds are
nearly parallel with the ridge. The one farthest to the north, No. 1 (Fig.
1), is a regular oval, 132 feet long, 98 feet wide, and about 10 feet high.
It was, no doubt, originally much higher, as it has been plowed over
for years, and the top is composed of sand. Mound No. 2 is the one
from which the pipes and other relics referred to were taken. This one,
and Nos. 3 and 4, are covered with a small growth of hickory and oak
trees. No. 2 is 86 feet in diameter and about 11 feet high. No. 3 is 90
feet in diameter and 11 feet 4 inches high. No. 4 is 66 feet in diameter
and about 4 feet 8 inches high. No. 5 is 50 feet in diameter and 3 teet
6 inches high. Mound No.3 is composed of very hard ash-colored clay.
No. 2, from which the pipes were taken, is shown in the following out-
line cut (Fig. 3), which represents its present condition:

Fic. 3. Section of mound near Naples, Il.

The inclosed space marked 4 represents the excavation made by
former explorers. In the present exploration the diameter of the
mound, 86 feet, was first obtained and then its height, using for this
latter purpose aspirit-level and pole, as represented in the cut, placing
the level on the margin of the excavation at a. Its height proving to
be about 11 feet and the depth of the old excavation about 7 feet, 4
feet remained in order to reach the original surface. The removal of
a large amount of forest leaves that had accumulated in the hole re-
vealed for the first foot or more, soil that had tumbled down from the
walls of the excavation. Next was encountered a stratum about 18
inches in thickness, composed of clay, black soil, and sand, in separate

.

4

PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 689

patches, indicated by 2 in the above cut. Below this was a layer of
black soil, in which were found human bones, the head of one femur,
the head and about 6 inches of the upper end of the other, one of the
vertebrae, both clavicles, ribs, and other bones, but all very much de-
cayed. Pieces of the skull were found, but so much decayed that only
the outline was indicated on the earth. The size of the femur and
other bones refuted the current tradition in the neighborhood that the
original excavators found bones of giants in this mound. No ashes,
charcoal, or any other indication of fire appeared. There was no altar.
It seemed to have been simply a burial mound, the body having been
placed on the ground and covered with a layer of black soil.

The first explorers found three pipes and two copper axes, of which
two pipes and one copper ax were secured. The thorough excavation
before mentioned prevented the determination of the exact position of
the bones. The occurrence of the bones of only one individual led to the
conclusion that the mound was erected as a memorial over the remains
of asingle chieftain or hero.

The relics discovered in mound No. 2 are probably as fine specimens
of carving as have ever been found anywhere belonging to that ancient
people, and they are in no way injured by the action of fire. Three
pipes and two copper axes were found in the mound at a depth of about
15 feet. The following cut represents one of the pipes, intended to re-
semble the raccoon (Procyon lotor).

Fic. 4. Raccoon pipe, from Naples, UL

This raccoon pipe is made of very hard stone, and is polished as smooth
as glass, and every feature of the animal is perfect. The bars on the
tail, the claws, the position of the fore and hind feet are all correct ;
even the markings of the face are properly indicated by lines cut in the
stone. But above all, the artist has caught the very expression of the
animal which he was imitating.

Such artistic skill in the manipulation of the hardest and most in-
tractable material into beautiful and graceful forms could only be ob-
tained by long study and patient toil.

H. Mis. 26——44
690 PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY.

One of the most remarkable things about this specimen remains to be
described, for it is not shown in the cut. The native workman, for some
reason, began drilling the hole for the stem at the rear end of the curved
base, so that the nose of the animal would be from the smoker, but, by
— accident, the under side of the material chipped out. Too much labor
had been expended on the specimen to throw it away. He therefore
made a neat plug of the same material, stopped up the hole with it,
and then drilled a hole, as is almost invariably the case, in the front end,
so the animal would face the smoker. The right front corner of the
curved base is broken off, the fracture beginning at the stem hole, and,
it may be, that this other hole was an attempt to repair the pipe after
it was broken, and that, when the artist chipped out the lower side of
the hole, he gave up the work and plugged up the partially drilled hole.
Whatever may have been his object this neatly fitted plug is another
proof of the skill of the workman.

The other pipe taken from the same mound is no less perfect. It rep- -
resents the common hard-shell turtle of the American rivers, as shown
in Fig. 5.

————S—=>

== = =

Fic. 5. Tur.le pipe, from Naples, Tl.

The cut shows but faintly the beauty of this specimen—the nostrils,
the head partially drawn back, the consequent fold of skin in the rear
of the skull, the paddle like feet, the claws, the tail folded around and
against the body on the underside of the rear of the shell—all are per-
fect. In one of the eye-holes is a copper bead representing the eye ball,
the other one being lost.

Professor Baird pronounces this turtle pipe to be made of catlinite.
There has been some question whether any articles made of this sub-
stance have been found in any locality of undoubted antiquity; the
shape, however, is precisely that of the other mound pipes. There is
no question as to the antiquity of the specimen, however.

Judged from the figure on p. 423, of “Flint Chips” of a turtle pipe,
found in the mounds of Ohio, by Squier and Davis, the Naples specimen
is far superior to that one in fidelity to nature. The copper ax, Fig. 10

PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 691

a and b, is 88 inches long, 3§ wide at the cutting edge, 2 inches wide
at the top, and nine-sixteenths of an inch thick. It is made of pure
copper. On one side the salts of the copper have preserved the cloth
that lay against it.* The warp and woof, Fig 10, are distinctly marked.
On the other side of the ax are preserved, in the same manner, feathers
over the whole surface. This feather cloth was extensively manufactured
by the Red Indians of two hundred years ago, but is now, like the man-

utacture of pottery, to most tribes a lost art.

For the manufacture of textile fabrics the aborigines used the inner
bark of the mulberry tree (Morus rubra), cedar (Juniperus Virginiana),
cypress (Taxodium distichum), red elm (slippery elm) (Ulmus fulva), the
bass-wood (Tilia Americana), the papaw (Asimina triloba), and the
outer bark of the Southern cane (Arundinaria macrosperma). The
Southern Indians used the silk plant (Apocynum canabinum), while the
California Indians manufactured their textile fabrics of Agave Ameri-
cana. The natives of North America also wove the hair of the buffalo,
the wolf, the dog, the brown lynx, and Virginia opossum (Didelphys
Virginianus).

It is difficult to determine whether the threads on this ax are of bark
or wool, though they seem to be the latter. In the Mitchell mound, in
Madison County, Illinois, specimens of cloth were found of both ma-
terials, while the size of the mound, copper implements, and contents
generally, indicated that it was of great antiquity.t In no one of the
instances, except in the Mitchell mound, is there any trace of feather
cloth. The reverse side of this copper ax is covered with the imprint
of feathers. The body, no doubt, was wrapped in a bark mantle, one
side of which was covered with feathers in the style in which the In-
dians of the Mississippi Valley manufactured feather cloth.

Out of hundreds of references on the subject the following are selected
as probably throwing some light on the manner in which the tenant of
this mound was clothed for his final rest.

Jones’ Southern Indians, pp. 84, 85; Hayward’s Tennessee, vol. 11, p.
163; Archeologia Americana, vol. 1, p. 303; Bradford’s Amer. Antiqui-
ties, p. 30.

Other mound pipes have been found in the vicinity of Naples, and
among the number that shown in Fig. 6.

Of this pipe Dr. Charles Rau says: “It is certainly the finest
mound pipe thus far known. Ihave handled a hundred times the mound
pipes of the Squier and Davis collection (now in the Blackmore Museum,
Salisbury, England), but none of them equaled the specimen in ques-
tion. Not having been exposed to the action of fire like the Ohio pipes,
it has suffered no damage whatever, and is as perfect as on the day

* See Jones’ Southern Indians, p. 225; 8.8. Lyon, Smithson. Rep., 1870, p. 399; Foster,
Prekistoric Races, p. 223.
tUpon this point consult Flint Chips, p. 420; Lapham’s Antiquities of Wisconsin, p. 47.
692 PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY.

when it was made.” Certainly a relic so highly spoken of by such com-
petent authority justifies all the information relative to it which could
be obtained.

Fic. 6. Eagle pipe, from Naples, Il.

On the right bank of the Illinois River, about 300 yards below Griggs-
ville Landing, rises a lofty bluff fully 300 feet above the level of the
river. On the summit is a beautiful, oval mound, 150 feet long, 92 feet
wide in the middle, and 25 or 30 fe high. The hoe outline, Fig.
7, will give an ides of its appearance.

Daniel Burns, John W. Windsor, and others, about forty years ago,
were engaged in digging a grave on this mound, when the spade turned
out a stone bowl about 6 inches in diameter across the top and about
4+inches deep. Deposited in the bowl was found the eagle pipe, another
bird pipe, a frog pipe, and a copper gouge about 6 inches in length.
This locality has afforded many valuable relics of prehistoric man, and
it is a matter of regret that they did not fall into the hands of persons
who knew or appreciated their scientific value.

Just south of the large mound above described, on the next point, are
five circular mounds about 30 feet in diameter and 10 or 12 feet high.
Indeed, within a radius of 5 miles from Naples there are at least fifty
mounds, very few of which have ever been opened.

After the foregoing description of these mounds and the articles found in
them was written, the Smithsonian Institution, in December, 1879, began
a through exploration of them. On the 10thof December, Mr. Merrill and

i amoebae

————

eee

ee!
PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 693

the writer, with six laborers began work on mound No.3 of the plat. In
1876, we had started a trench on the northeast side of the mound, about 2
feet wide, intending to carry it tothe center, but the hardness of the mate-
rialand wantof timecompelled us to desist. A part of our men were put to
workin thistrench, and the others began tosink ashaft about 8 feet square
in the center of the mound. The earth was so hard that it was impossible
to use a spade orshovel except for throwing it out after loosening with the
pick. When within about 18 inches of the original surface a whitish
substance was encountered resembling ashes. This substance was in a
layer several inches thick, about 2 feet wide, and 10 or 12 feet in length
north and south. The workmen in the center of the excavation reached
the red sand of the original surface and then began carefully to enlarge
the hole to the size of our shaft. Shortly, upon the west side, the pick
struck the elbow of a skeleton. The arm, slightly bent, was resting in
a natural position by the side. Carefully removing the earth the whole
length of the skeleton, we found that the bones were those of an aged
man about 5 feet 8 inches in height. The body had been placed at full
length on asmall elevation of sand, the head a little to the west of south,

Fic. 8. Diagram of mound No. 3, near Naples, Ill.
a, male skeleton. 0b, female. c, twolarge, dark, chert nodules. d, circular plate with hand engraved
enit. e, pieceofgalena. /, circularplate of mica. g, arrow-points and knives. h, copper ax. i, skele-
ten of woman (f). j, skeletons.

both arms in a natural position, resting by his side. The bones were
greatly decayed. The skull had been mashed flat and broken into a
great many pieces by the weight of the earth above, so that several
were lost. The porous ends of the leg bones were completely decayed
so that they crumbled to dust on exposure to the air. The processes for
ey ae PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY.

the attachment of ligaments indicate a man of great strength, while the
tibias do not show any of the unusual flattening described by Mr. Henry
Gillman, but are of the usual form, and the lower part of the humerus
was not perforated in the manner described by the same author. The
skull, from its great thickness, was capable of being restored by gluing
the edges of the fragments together. This skullis represented in Fig. 24,
aside view, b back; the top, ina, Fig. 26. Near this skeleton was another,
lying in the same position as the first. The two bodies were placed side
by side, and the latter, judging from the delicacy of the bones and teeth
and the thinness of the skull, was that of a woman. In the preceding
cut (Fig. 8) a and b represent the position of these skeletons. From
the appearance of the teeth the woman was in the prime of life. Both
of the bodies were buried in the mound with the flesh upon the bones, as
every bone was found in its proper position. Near the feet of the male
skeleton, at the point marked ¢ in the cut, were found two large nodules
of dark chert resembling the true flint of Europe. One of these was
but slightly chipped, while the other had been split in two near the
middle, and but one half deposited in the mound. This half nodule was
lying face downward, and resting upon it and the ground was a remark-
able specimen, which may be designated a “sun-symbol.” It is a white

Fic. 9. ‘‘ Sun-symbol,”’ from mound near Naples, Il.
in the middle, and 1 inch upon the edges, slightly concave upon one side,
and having upon the other a figure of a human hand. An idea of its
appearance will be obtained from Fig. 9.
The outlines of the hand are cut into the stone between an eighth and

PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 695

a sixteenth of an inch in depth, and then the inclosed space was cut down,
or rubbed down, to about half the depth of the outlines. In this man-
ner the hand was shown very distinctly. The edge at the thumb
was resting on the ground, and at the little finger on the top of the
chert nodule; thus the hand faced the east, the fingers pointing to-
ward the south. The mass of superincumbent earth had broken this
disk into several pieces, as there was when buried nothing under the
middle to support it. To the left of this specimen and the nodules of
chert were found a piece of galena weighing about 74 pounds, and a cir-
cular piece of mica about 14 or 15 inches in diameter and about one-
half inch thick.

Still further to the left, at the points marked g and h in the cut, were
found two copper axes (Fig. 10, a-b, d-e), one weighing 74 pounds and
measuring 104 inches in length and 4,°, in width at the cutting edge.
e of matting found around the copper axes.

CRT

a e
Fic. 10. Copper axes and matting, from mound near Naples, Ill.

With this ax were found four very fine arrow-heads (lig. 12); two
knives (Fig. 11 and Fig. 13, b); afinely worked spear-head (Fig. 13, a) ;
and a very fine chipped ceremonial ornament (Fig. 14, a). The latter
consists of a dark piece of chert, with two wings upon each side. The
base and point are a modified form of the arrow-point.

There was also found a regular mound pipe made of a soft, white stone,
very much decayed (Fig. 14 b.) The articles that were buried with
these two persons are all represented in Figs. 11, 12,13, and 14. A
little southeast of the heads of these skeletons, at a distance of about
8 or 10 feet, at the point marked 7, in Fig. 8, was found another skele-
ton in a sitting posture. Judging from the character cf the bones and

‘
696 PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY.

skull, this was probably a woman. Those bones which extended upward
into he hard dirt are in an excellent state of preservation.

NZS

|

he

£
Fic. 11. Chipped knife, from Fic. 12. Arrow-heads, from
mound near Naples, Ul. mound near Naples, Ill.

Fic.13. Spear-head and knives, from mound near Naples, Il.

Those in contact with the sand were much decayed. The skull was
broken to pieces; yet with patience it was restored. The bones, both of the

PAPERS RELATING TO ANTIIROPOLOGY. 697

skull and other parts of the skeieton, are clean and white—even the
spongy ends of the femora and other bones being perfect.

Resting against the skull of this skeleton, with the point downwards,
was found a fine wrought bone awl (Fig 15, a). Unfortunately the point
was broken off, and it was probably deposited in the mound in the con-
dition in which it was found. The portion recovered was probably
placed in the hand of the person atthe time of burial. This awl, together
with five or six others of somewhat similar character found in the same

a b, full size.
Fic. 14. Pipe and flaked ornament, from mound near Naples, Ill.

mound, were all made of the metatarsal bones of the elk (Cervus cana-
densis). The one marked a in Fig 15, is 9,3, inches long, and was, when

b. Head of same; full size.
Fic. 15. Bone awl, from mound near Naples Il.

perfect, about 10 inches long. The metatarsal bone was split down
through the center and the implement made of one of the halves. It is

Fic. 16. Bone awl, from mound near Naples, Tl.

finely polished and is so well preserved that, with the point restored, it
would be as useful an implement as it was the day it was manufactured.
Around the circumference of the lower end are cut twenty-six notches.

The part of the bone selected for these implements and the method of
698 PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY.

their SUE Gas are shown in Fig. 17, which represents the end of
the metatarsal bone of the elk
found in mound No. 6. A wedge
was driven into the opening at the
end, and the bone splitin two along
the middle line, each half afterward
being converted into an implement
5 by scraping and rubbing. Ten or
Fig. 17. Bone of elk, from mound near Naples, Ill. twelve of these large bone awls were
found in mound No. 1, sticking in the sand around a single skeleton.
One of these is painted red and retains its brilliant color.

A small bone awl, ed in the following cut, half size, was found
in mound No. 15.

Fic. 18. Bone awl, from mound near Naples, Ill.
Lying at right angles to the two skeletons already described in mound
No. 3 were six or eight others, all with their feet to the west, except one,
which was at least 15 inches below the surface sand, stretched out at
full length, with the head to the northwest and feet to the southeast.
No object of any kind was found with these skeletons. The bones were
greatly decayed, and the skulls so far gore as to render the fragments
almost worthless for any scientific purposes. The posterior portions had
been much distorted, probably by the pressure of the earth. The frag-
mentary frontal of one bone is remarkable for the heavy superciliary ridges
and retreating forehead, while another has the bone of the nose almost
perfect, showing the feature to have been very prominent. The latter
specimen is very similar in this particular to Fig. 65 in Foster’s ‘‘ Prehis-
toric Races.” The comparison of the Dunleith mound skull with the
Neanderthal skull in that figure seems to be very unfair to the former.
By elevating the posterior portion of the fragment until the skull as-
sumes a normal position, the difference between it and the Neanderthal
specimen will be found to be very great.
No animal bones or fragments of them were found, and no evidence
of any funeral feast or any funeral ceremony in whieh fire was used.
Mound No. 4 was opened by sinking a shaft about 8 feet
square in the center several feet below the original surface.
Nothing was found but a few fragmentary human bones
greatly decayed and one fine, white chert arrow-point, rep.
resented in the following figure (half size) : fii if
Mound No. 5 was opened but nothing found. The earthSg@ey,
in mound No. 4 was of the same character as that in No. 3, VY Net
The oval mound, No. 1, was explored in April, 1881 by =
beginning a trench at the north end and carrying it tothe 4.

2
original surface and through to the south end. Lateral Fic.19. Chert ar-

row-head, from

trenches were opened at intervals, and from these and the mound near Na-
main one a complete exploration was made by tunneling. ?°”

PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 699

Near the center of the mound a single skeleton was found in a sitting
position, and no objects were about it except a single sea-shell resting in
the earth just over the head, and a number of the bone awls already de-
scribed sticking in the sand around the skeleton. The individual had
been seated upon the sand, these awls stuck around him in a circle, 4 or
5 inches in the sand, and the work of carrying dirt began. When the
mound had been elevated about 6 inches above the head, the shell was
laid on and the work continued. Although the many perfect bone imple-
ments found in this mound fully repaid the expense and labor of ex-
ploration, some disappointment was felt, since, from the size and beauty
of outline of the mound, we expected some fine discoveries in the way
of pipes, copper axes, &c. This mound was raised to about the height
of 6 feet with hard clay, and then finished with sand. The skeleton was
about 10 feet below the surface. The shell, a fine specimen of Pyrula
perversa with the inner whorls removed, so as to be used for a drink-
ing cup, is represented in the following figure :

= = N

Fig. 20. Pyrula drinking-cup, from mound near Naples, I).

Mound No, 6, upon the river bank, is the finest in the vicinity. It
is a truncated cone, about 136 feet in diameter at the base, 15 feet high,
and 30 feet across the top. It is perfectly symmetrical, and from the
success in the mounds upon the high ground great hopes were enter-
tained of this, though the anticipations were not realized, yet what
was found and the information we obtained fully paid the expense of
opening the mound. The character of the earth was the same as that
found in mound No. 3, but still much harder. More than once the
workmen had to take their steel picks to the blacksmith shop and have
them dressed. It was impossible to use the spade or shovel until the
original surface was struck. These mounds were intended as enduring
monuments to the dead, and for that reason were not built of the Sur-
face loam, or sand, which would soon be destroyed by washing, but of
clay, and no doubt a part of the workmen engaged in their erection
were employed in carrying water and pouring it on the mound as the
work progressed. This, with the constant tramping, would account for
the hardness of the material. Ata depth of 7 or8 feet, bits of rude pot-
700 PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY ;

tery were encountered now and then all the way down to the base of
the mound. None were found of sufficient size to indicate the form of
the vessels, but, as they undoubtedly were made by the people who
built this mound, they were carefully preserved. The material and ap-
pearance of these specimens are precisely those of specimens found in
an old aboriginal cemetery on the bank of the river nearly opposite
the mouth of McGee’s Creek. (See plat, Fig. 1.) The outer edge of
one pot was ornamented with slight notches made by pressing a stick
or some other object into the soft clay. Judging from the fragment
there was no other ornamentation on this vessel. Upon the inside,
about three-fourths of an inch from the top, at intervals of about 1
inch, holes were made nearly through the vessel, not far enough, how-
ever, to cause any elevation of the corresponding portion upon the outer
surface, as is the casein another fragment from this mound. The latter
is ornamented with an oblong imprint similar to those in Fig. 22, ¢.
Another piece from this mound shows a part of some figure traced upon
the surface, but the fragment is too small to determine what it was.
When near the base of this mound the men encountered a skeleton ex-
tended at full length with the head to the southeast. The bones were
so greatly decayed that not even the fragments could be removed.

No moisture having ever penetrated to the base of this mound since
its erection, the condition of these bones, as compared with those from
mound No. 3, was looked upon as an indication of the greater age of the
former. Even the molars were so decayed that they could be crushed
between the finger and thumb. Yet the fallacy of such testimony, so
often quoted by explorers, was fully demonstrated by finding in the sand
below the base of this mound a perfect skull. A shaft about 10 feet
square was sunk to the original surface, but, except the scraps of pot-
tery and the skeleton referred to, nothing was found. The surface line
was sharply defined as the mound was made of dark-colored clay, built
on a plain of red sand. Upon encountering this red sand it was decided
to explore the whole base of the mound by tunneling, which was done
thoroughly by one of my men who was a coal-miner. With a little lamp
upon his cap, and with short shoveland pick, he went everywhere in the
sand under the base of the mound, at the same time chipping off from
a foot to 18 inches of the clay roof over his head. By so doing it was
found that at intervals of from 6 to 8 feet all over the base of the mound,
for a space of 30 feet in diameter, there were pockets of ashes in the
sand; that is, a hole about 24 feet wide was scooped out to the depth
of about 8 inches and filled with ashes. In these ash heaps were
found numerous fragments of bone, many of them split in that pecu-
liar manner practiced by savage man everywhere, for the purpose of
obtaining the marrow. In these ash beds were also found a humerus of
the wild turkey and about half of the skull of a skunk. In the sand
near one of these ash beds was a human skull almost perfect but quite ~
fragile. By the exercise of great care in handling it was washed and

ee ee Se ee

PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 701

covered with a thin solution of glue. It is figured below, both side and
back view, also from above, Figs. 24,e and f, and 26, e. There was also
found a perfect awl or piercing instrument (Fig. 15, b), made of the left
half of the right metatarsal bone of the elk (Cervus Canadensis)... A part
of the larger end crumbled a little after bringing it to the air. It is 1277
inches long, and would have been an effective weapon to use in close
combat. From a burial mound in Tennessee Dr. Jones took a needle,
as he styles it, or piercing implement measuring 14 inches in length. *
“Tt had” he states ‘‘ been fashioned with great care from the tibia of
the American deer, and was probably used for piercing leather.” The
larger number of the fragments of bone found in this Naples mound
were those of the deer.

Mound No. 7 is within 60 feet of No. 6, on the west. Itis now of
an oblong shape, being longest from north to south, but this is due to
the fact that the western half of it has been removed by the washing of
the river. This mound was opened in one place to the original surface
but nothing was found at the time, except fragments of bones split in
the same manner as those in mound No.6. Among these were fragments
of the humerus, tibia, radius, ribs, and vertebra of the deer (Cervus vir-
ginianus. The humerus and femur of the wild turkey were found intact,
also two femora of the beaver, the ulna of a large bird not identified,

Si
2

Fic. 21. Earthen pot, from mound near Naples, Il.

and the ulna of a small feline probably the skunk. A1l these fragments
were found mixed with ashes and pieces of charcoal, indicating plainly
that they are the remains of a feast. No fragmentary bones were met
with, and nothing to indicate cannibalism. Of the other mounds of this
vicinity only one was explored. This was No. 15, which is about 60
feet in diameter and 6 feet high. <A shaft about 8 feet square was sunk

(* Explorations of the Aboriginal Remains of Tennessee. By Joseph Jones (Smithsonian
Contributions to Knowledge, vol. XXII, p. 61.)
702 PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY.

to the original level, developing the fact that it was a burial mound.
The bones were so greatly decayed as to render it impossible to preserve
even any fragments of the skulls. Large numbers of fragments of
pottery were found, but no whole vessels. The material and many
of the markings resemble those of specimens, already referred to, from
the old cemetery on the margin of the river, distant about 300 yards.
Judged from the fragments, the majority of the vessels would hold
about 24 gallons each. One, however, was not much larger than the half
of a cocoanut-shell and of about the same shape, Fig. 21.

Te eee EC ber (Ul

Ferre
fae a od a oe

COOLER EC EELIICUE CRCt
cerercemsereces

TECLErcerrr cen

viimuenite) A
J jUboe2 CabR SSD ¢

Fic. 22. Pottcry fragments frum mound near Naples, Il.

It is of a dark color, about one-quarter of an inch thick, symmetrically
made, and ornamented with lines about the sixteenth of an inch in depth,
PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 103

arranged as to form small lozenges about half an inch in length. The
spaces so ornamented are four in number, large at the top and tapering
to a point at the bottom, ending near the pointed end of the cup. The
smooth intervening spaces form a four-pointed star, folded over the bot-
tom of the cup, as shown in the cut. The preceding figure represents
fragments of pottery from mound No. 15. The pieces a and ¢ are each
ornamented with figures stamped into the soft clay. One fragment from
mound No. 6 was ornamented with a similar figure; also several frag-
ments from the ancient cemetery above alluded to.

It is difficult to determine what was used to make this impression,
but it must have been something of vegetable growth, serving as a
natural stamp. Irom the character of the imprints on the fragment
from mound No. 6, it seems that the stamp was somewhat pliable, as
some of the figures seem distorted. The pottery must have been de-
signedly broken and deposited in mound No. 15, as no whole vessels
were found and not enough fragments of any one to restore it. From
a careful examination of fragments from the mounds, as well as those
from the ancient burial-place, it has been possible to determine the size
and form of many of them. The most usual size held from 24 to 3 gal-
lons, and was shaped as in the accompanying cut, restored from frag-
ments found in mound 15.

SA

Fie. 23. Pottery, from mound near Naples, Ii.

Fragments from mound No. 6 measure at the rim, one 9 inches and
another about 6, while those from mound 15 give the following: 103
s
104 PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY.

inches, 103, 94, 83, and 64; and specimens from the ancient burial-place
give diameters of 20, 144, 12, 94,8, and 5 inches, respectively. | The bead-
like dots around the margin of Fig. 23 indicate holes punched from the
inside of the vessel at intervals of about three-fourths of an inch, made
with the end of a round stick about the size of a lead-pencil. The dots
upon the outside indicate corresponding elevations made by the point of
the stick being pushed nearly through. This method of ornamentation
was found upon specimens in mounds Nos. 6 and 15, in specimens from
the ancient cemetery, and in fragments found on an old village site, 3
miles west of Winchester.

The theory of a uniform typical skull-form for all the nations of the

New World presented by Dr. Morton in his great work Crania Ameri-
cana, so ably seconded by Dr. Nott in Types of Mankind indorsed by
Humboldt, and for a time acquiesced in by Amcrican ethnologists, first
challenged by Professor Retzius in 1859,* and again by Dr. Daniel Wil-
son in 1862, may now be considered to have been completely over-
thrown.
It may be safely said that examples of all the various forms which the
mania for skull classification has distinguished may be found among
the various tribes of the New World yet living, as well as in crania ex-
humed from the ancient burial-places of extinct tribes.

Although the material for generalization is yet scanty, the same may
be affirmed of the mound-builders and stone-grave race. The plan here-
tofore followed in attempting to establish a typical skull-form both for
the modern Indian and the mound-builders is wholly unsatisfactory and
fallacious. Let us assume an experiment exceeding in magnitude any-
thing yet attempted in that line, for upon the theory adopted, the greater
the number of skulls examined the more the probability that the typical
form ascertained is the correct one; andif we find this experiment open
to great sources of error which we have no means of eliminating, we
may safely conclude that the attempts made upon a much smaller scale
have failed to furnish us any reliable information. Let us take one
thousand skulls, ten skulls from each of one hundred tribes scattered
from Hudson’s Bay to Patagonia. We tabulate all the various meas-
urements, longitudinal, parietal, frontal, vertical, &c.,and by this means
strive to obtain a typical skull. It may be that not five of the whole
number conform to this type, and it may be that each of these belonged
to one tribe. In attempting thus to establish a typical skull-form for a
hundred tribes we assume a fact which does not exist, viz, that there is
an average uniformity in the skull-forms of the various hundred tribes,
or, in other words, that the average variation of skull-forms is the same
in all these tribes. Secondly, we assume that the ten skulls taken rep-
resent fairly the variations of skull-forms in the particular tribe. This»
may be true or it may not. For example, every skull obtained may, by

* Smithsonian Report, 1859, p. 264.
t Ibid, 1862, p. 240 et seq.
PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 705

accident, belong to the brachycephalic type, while the skulls of the
tribe may be equally divided between that form and the dolichocephalic.
With these facts before us examine any table of measurements yet made
of American crania and calculate the chances of error. There are not
in all the public and private collections fifty undoubted mound-builder
skulls, assuming that the builders of the great.mounds and earth-works
were a different race from the modern Indian. With a view of ascer-
taining the probable number of such skulls in the country, in January,
1880, the author mailed a circular letter to a large number of private
individuals and public institutions, about seventy in all, requesting an-
gswers to two questions:

Ist. How many genuine mound-builder skulls are in your collection ?

2d. How many that are supposed to be mound-builder skulls?

In a very large majority of the cases the answer to even the second
question was “not one!” while the exception was rare, indeed, where
persons claimed to be in possession of skulls of the first character.
The four greatest public collections are the Academy of Science, Phila-
delphia; the Smithsonian Institution, at Washington; the Peabody Insti-
tute, Cambridge ; and the Davenport Academy of Science, in lowa.
In these public collections are many labeled mound-skulls, simply
from the fact that they came from the base of a mound, without any
reference to its size or other articles taken from it. In estimating
the number of undoubted mound-skulls, those of this character are ex-
cluded. Assuming a difference in the race who built the great mounds
and earth-works of the Mississippi Valley and the modern Indian, a
skull taken from a mound of this character may belong to the one or
the other. Applying the test suggested in the circular above alluded
to, which is the best the nature of the subject will admit of, that is, “to
only class as genuine those that are found in connection with other ob-
jects that unquestionably belonged to the mound-builders,” the number
of genuine mound-builder skulls is reduced by two-thirds.*

Dr. Foster fell into a grave error when he classed as “ authentic skulls
of the mound-builders” those obtained from low mounds on the banks
of the Des Plaines River, of Illinois. These mounds were elevated only
about ‘24 feet above the surrounding plain,” and no objects were found
in the mounds which are looked upon as peculiar to the mound-builders.
Yet he classes these skulls as genuine mound-builder remains, figures
some of them in his work; and in the winter of 1869-1870 presented to

*Dr. J. F. Snyder, a gentleman who has devoted a great deal of thought to this
subject, suggests that ‘‘ this test appears very unsatisfactory, for the difficulty of dis-
tinguishing ‘objects that unquestionably belonged to the so-called mound-builders’
is necessarily as great as to distinguish their crania.” The force of this criticism is
admitted; yet if we find a skull at the base of a great mound, and with it copper
axes, pipes with the peculiar curved base, and such articles as were found by Squier
and Davis in the mounds of Ohio, we may safely assume that the mound was built by
the same race that erected those of similar character in which similar articles were
found.

H. Mis. 26——45
706 PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY.

the Chicago Academy of Sciences ‘the generalization as to the former
existence on this continent of an anomalous race, characterized by a
remarkably depressed forehead.” *

Judge Force suggests that ‘“ Dr. Fosters argument is very good,
but he failed in the first step; he failed to get crania of the mound-
builders.” t

Dr. E. H. Davis remarked before the American Ethnological Society
in 1859, that ‘in more than one hundred mounds opened by Mr. Squier
and himself, they had found only one or two skulls in good preserya-
tion.” t

The assumption of the existence of a typical mound-skull implies that
there was one homogeneous race, or tribe, that built all the great mounds
and earth-works everywhere in the Mississippi Valley, or that the mounds
were the work of various tribes, and that the typical skull of each separate
tribe was the typical skull of every other tribe. The first hypothesis is
wholly untenable. The variation in form of these earth-works would
indicate that they are the work of different peoples. The peculiar char-
acteristic of the Ohio works is the great squares and circles nowhere
else found of such magnitude or in such numbers; while that of Wis-
consin is in the wonderful animal effigies, spread out like picture-writing
upon a grand scale on the prairies and in the central and southern por-
tians of the vast valley. These works culminated in great feocalli, such
as the great mound at Cahokia and that of Seltzertown, in Mississippi.
I know that it has generally been accepted without much investigation
that the center of this widespread race was in Ohio, and that the wonder-
ful animal mounds of Wisconsin were the work of the same people, built
probably as a pastime as they went to and returned from the copper
mines on Lake Superior. This is wholly unwarranted by the facts.
Monnd-building upon the scale of these great earth-works, anywhere
in the Mississippi Valley, was a slow and laborious process. The exten-
sive earth-works of Ohio were erected by a people who lived on them
and about them. The same may be said of the animal mounds of Wis-
consin. The erection of such magnificent works of art, considering the
stage of the civilization of the workmen, far beyond the borders of their
territory, where they would never be seen by members of their own
tribe, except by those engaged in commerce or on the war-path, is in-
credible. The great burial mounds on the banks of the Illinois and
other tributaries of the Mississippi contain the bones of those who lived
in the vicinity, and the wonderful teocalli in the center and south were
erected in the midst of the homes of their builders. The fact that the
mounds of Ohio were first explored, and the result of that exploration
given to the world in a magnificent volume by the Smithsonian Institu-
tion, is one of the reasons why that locality has been frequently spoken

* Prehistoric Races, pp. 275, 282.
t Indians of Ohio, &c., p. 64.
t Hist. Magazine, vol. III, p. 264.
PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 107

of as the great center of the population of the mound-builders. The
fact is, it was a great center of an ancient population. Wisconsin was
another great center of another population, while Southern Missouri was
still another great center of a different population, judging them by the
character of the mounds and the works of art found in them. Tennessee
may be considered as another center of a distinct population; and we
have no reason to believe that one of these was more densely populated
than another.

Having shown that belief in the existence of one uniform, homoge-
neous race with acommon skull-form, all over the Mississippi Valley, is

p

8
Fic. 24. Mound-builders’ skulls, from mound near Naples, M1.

wholly untenable, in order to warrant us in still leoking for the typical
mound skull we must assume either absolute uniformity of forms be-
longing to each tribe, or uniformity in variation, and that, from one or
the other of these causes, the typical skull of one tribe was the typical
form of every other. The first of these latter hypotheses, absolute uni-
formity of skull-form, has never been found existing in a single tribe,
and it would be a miracle to find, not only uniformity in a single tribe
708 PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPULOGY.
/

of these ancient mound people, but that the same uniformity extended
through all the various tribes. Compelled to abandon the idea of a sin-
gle widespread people for whom we can assign a typical skull, and com-
pelled to relinquish the idea of absolute uniformity of skull-forms in
numerous tribes, we are driven to the only remaining hypothesis—that
of uniformity in variation in the various tribes; and I think it can easily

Fic. 25. Crania from mounds near Naples, Ill.

be shown that the probabilities of the existence of such fact are very
slender.

Lieut. W. H. Dall* has perfectly expressed my ideas in regard to vari-
ability of skull-forms, and the difficulties in attempting to establish
typical forms.

This “factor of individual variation” is strikingly illustrated by
the two skulls taken from mound No. 3, at Naples, the one a very
pecay cephalic and the other a Abia neteei aT skull, undoubtedly of

* On succession in shell-heaps of the Aleutian Islands, in Contributions to North eee
Ethnology, vol. 1, pp. 70, 71.
PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 709

the same people who built the mounds, as there is not a possibility that
either could have been an intrusive burial. These skulls are shown in
Fig. 24, a and ¢ side views, and b and d back views; and in Fig. 26, a
and ¢ top views.

The vast difference between these two skulls can only be understood
by an examination of them, and no better illustration could be found of
the futility of attempting to establish a typical form for the mound-
builders.

In figure 25, a is the skull of a modern Indian buried just below the
surface in a mound in the town of Meredosia, 5 miles from Naples, and

e £

Fic. 26. Mound crania, from mounds near Naples, Il.

is only figured here for comparison with the others. It is a short, wide
skull, and admirably corresponds with the ideal Indian skull of Dr.
TiIO7) PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY.

Morton. cis a remarkably distorted skull from alow mound on the
bluffs 3 miles west of Winchester. The cut accurately indicates the
side view, but the distortion sideways cannot be shown by a figure.
The top of this remarkable specimen is shown in Fig. 26, d.

It is not pretended that this skull belonged to the same people who
built the Naples mounds. Indeed from the decayed condition of the
Naples specimens, protected as they were from moisture, we may safely
say that a skull buried at the same time only 3 feet below the surface
would have completely disappeared. Any one who has ever made and
tabulated the usual measurements of half a dozen skulls must have been
conscious of the fact that these measurements are as inadequate as
wood-cuts to indicate differences in forms instantly recognized by the eye.
For example, exactly the same parietal diameter may exist in a skull
perfectly symmetrical as in one greatly distorted; or again, exactly the
same occipito-frontal circumference may exist in a low, dolichocephalic
skull and a brachycephalic one with elevated vertex, or the horizontal
circumference be identical in a round head and along one. I have
figured three undoubted mound skulls and three more modern ones, and
below furnish a table of the most usual measurements, with but little
expectation that ghose who read this article will get any clear idea of
the vast difference in some of these skulls, differences which can only
be appreciated by examination of the skulls themselves.

To show the great difference in a side view of two skulls, taken from
the same mound, the outlines of both are given in the same cut, Fig. 27.
Le The dotted line represents the skull
marked No. 2, and the other outline, skull
No. 1, both from mound No. 3. For the
purpose of still further elucidating the var-
} iations in these forms, the following table
y, of measurements of three of the Naples
/’ mound skulls and one skull of a modern In-

\ pa dian is appended, the latter taken by me

Fic. 27. Outlines of mound crania. from near the the surface of a mound in

the town of Meredosia 6 miles north of Naples.

= ic Do LP. | wD. aD, Leica O.F.A.| H. C.

Pea Ay ee, \-— 3
Modern Indian.............-...--- 88 5.58 : 4.75 | 14.25! 5.16 | 13.08 20.25
Mound-builder (mound No. 6).---- 6. 66 5 4.75 | 13.66 | 5.16 | 13.16 19.75
Mound-builder (mound No. 3)...-. . 05 5. 4.75 | 14.16! 5.41 | 13.66 19. 66
Mound-builder (mound No. 3).-.-- 7. 008 5 14. oa 5.008 | 14.008 | 20.58

Many writers have spoken of the soundness of teeth of the mound-
builders. Dr. T. S. Sozinsky* says: “ The dental profession was un-
known to the mound-builders, and they had no need for it; for toothache
and all such diseases were troubles with which they were but very little

*«“<The teeth of the Mound-Builders.” Dental Cosmos, vol. 20, p. 496.
PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 711

acquainted.” Dr. Farquharson * mentions the invariable soundness of
teeth in the remains found in the Davenport mounds. The fallacy of
drawing general conclusions from insufficient data is well proven by
such statements. A few mounds were opened in the vicinity of Kansas
City, and all the teeth found were sound, and the general statement is
at once made that diseased teeth were unknown to the mound-builders.
Dr. J. J. R, Patrick, of Belleville, Il., who has had a fine opportu-
nity for observation, says: “It is the exception to find a sound set of
teeth. - - - The marks of alveolar abseess are common; loss of
molars and bicuspids are frequent, with complete absorption of the sock-
ets.”+ The writer’s observations, which have been limited, accord ex-
actly with those of Dr. Patrick. The lower jaw belonging to skull No.
2, from mound No. 3, shows an alveolar abscess under the second molar
upon the left side, and loss of all the molars upon the right, with com-
plete absorption of the alveolar processes. The second molar upon the
left was diseased, a cavity extending entirely through the crown. In
this specimen there was no complete loss of teeth before death, but the
second and third molars upon the right side are badly decayed, and while
Dr. Sozinsky’s statement, that “the dental profession was unknown to
the mound-builders,” probably was quite correct, yet the owner of these
teeth could vouch for the fact that at least one of their number knew
what it was to havethe toothache. The teeth of all the specimens found
are worn quite flat upon the crowns, and this remark applies to the cus-
pids and bicuspids of all the specimens found except one. Dr. Patrick,
in the paper above quoted from, says he has but “ two skulls in which
the front teeth lap over each other; in all the other cases the masticat-
ing surface of the upper jaw fits perfectly that of the lower, and so with
all the teeth that are not missing. The incisor teeth do not lap, but im-
pinge on each other at their cutting edges like the molars, and are worn
quite flat, so that when we look along the surface of mastication we per-
ceive that it is almost a perfect plane.” This is an exact description of
nearly every specimen from these Naples mounds, there being but a sin-
gle one (No. 154) in which the incisor teeth are chisel-shaped like those
of our own race. This form of the front teeth is not peculiar to the
mound-builders, but is characteristic of savage races generally. The
disuse of the front teeth for the purpose of severing mouthfuls of food
from the mass, consequent upon the use of the knife and fork, together
with change of food, has materially modified the process of mastication
and the form of the teeth.f

From the authorities cited it will be found that the ancient Peruvians

~* Smithsonian Report, 1874, p. 363.

+ Dental Fallacies, a paper read before the Missouri Dental Association by Dr. John
J. R. Patrick, pp. 8, 9.

t Upon the teeth of savage races, see D’Orbigny ; L’ Homme Américain, vol. 1, p. 128;
Flint Chips, p. 62, note; Morlot, in Smithsonian Report, 1860, pp. 312, 313; Indige-
nous Races, p. 297; Lubbock’s Prehistoric Times, p. 538; Bancroft’s Native aces, vol 1,
pp. 25, 46, 163; Wilson’s Prehistoric Man, 2d ed., pp. 454, 455.

TAZ PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY.

and Egyptians, the primitive men of Denmark and Great Britain were,
and that modern savage races still are, characterized by this peculiar
form of the front teeth, and from these facts in advance we might have
foretold the form of those of the mound-builders.

Having fully described these mounds and their contents, so far as ex-
plored, it only remains to offer some general conclusions as to the char-
acter and habits of the people who built them. There is no evidence
that the mounds numbered 1, 2, 3, 4, and 5 were built by the same peo-
ple who erected Nos. 6 and 7; for, except the finding of bone awls simi-
lar in form, made from the metatarsal of the elk, there was nothing
common to the two groups. Itis true that Nos. 1, 2, 3, and 4 of the first
group, No. 6, and probably 7, of the second, were all burial’ mounds,
yet the funeral ceremonies, as indicated by Nos. 3 and 6, were wholly
different. It is clear that one distinguished man of the tribe was buried
in mound No. 3, and that the other persons, twelve or thirteen in num-
ber, were sacrificed to go with him to the land of souls. In a circle
around his feet were placed the most valuable of his possessions, under
the belief they would be of use to him; beside him was placed his wifes
near him in a sitting posture his sister or some other near female rela-
tive, and at his head half a score of his most trusty attendants. Even
the laborers assisting in the exploration seemed to understand that this
man was the one important personage over whom this monument was
erected. There were no broken or split animal bones, no charcoal, and
nothing else to indicate a funeral feast. With the exception of the single
bone awl, no object was found near any of the skeletons, except at the
feet of the one named; and the skeleton of this one, and that of her al-
luded to as his wife, were deposited on a little hillock of sand, while those
at their heads were apparently laid on and against itssloping sides. The
bones and skull indicated a man of great age, which is confirmed by the
character of the teeth, several of them being badly decayed, and in one
place the alveolar processes completely absorbed. Again, the burial of
the remarkable stone disk with the human hand inscribed upon it, an
object requiring long and patient labor in its manufacture, also points
to the importance of this personage.

As before remarked, the funeral rites practiced by the people who
built mounds Nos. 3 and 6 seem to have been wholly different. In the
latter case there is evidence of a great funeral feast upon the flesh of
the deer, the elk, the wild-turkey, the skunk.*

In the use of fire and the careful deposit of the ashes in little pockets
scooped out of the sand, there is no evidence that any of these Naples
mounud-builders were “an agricultural people.” The weapons deposited
with their dead are those used in war and the chase, and are very

*“Lawson (Description of N. Carolina, p. 197) says of the skunk: ‘‘The Indians love
to eat their flesh, which has no manner of ill smell when the bladder is out.” Mr.
Comfort (Smithsonian Report 1871, p. 394) suggests relative to the skull of askunk found
in a mound by him, that it probably was attached to a medicine bag.
PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 713

similar to those used by savage races everywhere. The finding of
copper axes (Fig. 10), too, indicates no great advancement toward civ-
lization, for there are more instances on record of articles of this metal
found in the hands of the Indians than in the mounds. The fact is,
but little copper has ever been found in the mounds, and it is absurd to
contend that the few specimens met with show that the builders of the
mounds habitually used copper implements and were the authors of all
the prehistoric mining upon Lake Superior. <A writer recently remarked
in the Virginia Gazette, that “the mounds and old grave-yards and camp
ing grounds of the prehistoric races of our country have been pretty
well ransacked, and so far all the copper relics found in the United
States put together would not weigh half a ton.” Dr. Charles Rau, the
best authority in matters relating to American archeology, in an admmira-
ble paper upon Ancient Aboriginal Trade in North America,* says: “The
use of copper was comparatively limited, and cannot have exerted any
marked influence on the material development of the natives.” Neither
does the fact that some textile fabric was manufactured by these people,
as shown by the specimen adhering to the copper ax found in mound
No. 2, indicate any advance beyond the aborigines of the New World
at the date of the discovery. Ina paper on The Textile Fabrics of the
Ancient Inhabitants of the Mississippi Valley, read before the American
Association at Boston last year, the author showed conclusively from
historical sources that textile fabrics of some character were manufact-
ured by the aborigines from the lakes to the Gulf at the period of first
contact with civilized man, and that many of these fabrics (Fig. 10, c),
especially those made by the village Indians of the Lower Mississippi,
surpassed in quality any specimens yet taken from the mounds.

Fragments of bone, teeth, and horn from the mounds, the faithful
representation of animals left us in the pipes of the mound-builders, and
the immense animal mounds have enabled us partially to reconstruct
the fauna of the period of the builders of the mounds. A careful exami-
nation of recorded facts enables us to present the following list :

Mastodon.(?)—Shown in sculptured pipes from Davenport mounds,
and upon a tablet from a mound in same vicinity.!. Represented in
immense bas-relief upon prairies of Wisconsin. A tooth was found in
stratum overlapping a mound in Missouri.”

Buffalo.—Professor Shaler* says that the buffalo was not here in the
time of the mound-builders, but the spinous processes of this animal
have been found in a mound in Dakota.‘ It is represented in the
animal mounds of Wisconsin,’ and the teeth of the buffalo have been

* Smithsonian Report, 1872, p. 350.

1 Proceedings Davenport Academy of Science, Vol. XI, Plate II.

% Kighth Annual Report Peabody Museum, p. 45.

3 Amer. Naturalist, vol. 4, p. 159.

4 Smithsonian Report, 1871, p. 394.

5Lapham’s Antiquities of Wisconsin, p. 69, and Plate XLV, No. 1.
M14 PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY.

found in the drift of Maine.’ It is singular, however, that this animal
is not represented in the sculptured mound pipes, yet the same remark
applies to the moose, the porcupine, the rabbit, the skunk, and other
animals, a part of which are known to have been familiar to the builders
of some of the mounds. x

Moose.—Perforated teeth from mound on Saint Clair River, Michigan.’

Elk.—Bone implements from mounds of Ohio,’ and from mounds
Nos. 1, 3, 6, and 15, Naples, Il. The head of the elk is also faith-
fully represented in a sculptured pipe from Ohio mound.* Skull of elk
found by Sidney 8. Lyon in a mound in Union County, Kentucky.°

Deer.—Bones found by Prof. F. W. Putnam in a mound on the Wa-
bash River, Indiana.6 Bones found by the writer in mounds Nos. 6
and 7, Naples, IJ. Awls made from bone of deer found by Sidney
S. Lyon in Union County, Kentucky.7’ Horn found in a mound at
the same place.’

Bear.—F ragment (head) from sculptured pipe found in Ohio mounds:®
Drilled teeth from same mounds.” Drilled teeth and radius from Illinois
mound. Bones found by Prof. F. W. Putnam in a mound on the Wa-
bash, Indiana.”

Wolf.—Sculptured pipes from Ohio mounds.® Drilled teeth from
same mounds.“ Skull of prairie wolf in mound in Dakota.®

Dog.—Skull from mound in Ilinois.!®

Panther.—Fragment of pipe from Ohio mound," also a pipe fromDa-
venport mound.!® Teeth found in a mound in Kentucky.”

Vildcat—Sculptured in Ohio pipes,” and drilled teeth from same
mounds.”

1 Amer. Naturalist, vol. 1, p. 268, note, and Vol. 6, p. 98, note.

2 Sixth Annual Report, Peabody Museum, p. 17.

3Squier and Davis, Ancient Monuments, p. 220, Fig. 119.

4Squier and Davis, Ancient Monuments, p. 257, Fig. 161.

5 Smithsonian Report, 1870, p. 395.

6Foster’s Prehistoric Races, pp. 137, 138.

7 Smithsonian Report, 1870, p. 395.

8Ibid, p. 403.

9Squier and Davis, Ancient Monuments, §c., p. 271. Fig. 189; Flint Chips, p. 430
Fig. 69.

loSquier and Davis, Ancient Monuments, p. 234, Fig. 131.

Second Annnal Report Peabody Museum, pp. 15, 16.

13 Foster’s Prehistoric Races, p. 137. Represented in the animal mounds of Wisconsin-
Laphamwn’s Antiquities of Wisconsin, pp. 65,70 and Plate XLV, No. 4; Squier and Da.
vis Ancient Monuments, p. 130, and Pl. XL III, No. 8.

13 Squier and Davis, Ancient Monuments, p. 271, Fig. 190; Flint Chips, p. 431, Fig. 74.

14Squier and Davis, Ancient Monuments, p. 234, Fig. 131.

15 Smithsonian Report, 1871. p. 394.

16 Second Annual Report, Peabody Museum, p. 16.

17Squier and Davis, Ancient Monuments, p. 257, Fig. 160.

18 Proceedings Davenport Acad. of Science, vol. 1, Pl. 1V, No. 11.

19 Smithsonian Report, 1870, p. 403.

2»Squier and Davis, Ancient Monuments, p. 257, Figs. 158, 159, 160.

21 7d,, p. 234, Fig, 131; flint Chips, pp. 452, 480.

-
PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 715

Raccoon.—Fragment of pipe from Ohio mound! and pipe from mound
No. 3, Naples, Ill. (Ante, p. —, Fig. —.)

Opossum.—Bones found by Prof. Putnam ina mound on the Wabash
River, Indiana.’

Beaver.—Three sculptured pipes from Ohio mounds.? Bones found
in mound No. 7, Naples, Ill. Skull found in mound in Dakota.*

Muskrat.—Skull in mound in Dakota.°®

Otter.—Fragment of pipe from Ohio mound.®

Mink.—Either this animal or the weasel, which is very similar in
form, is represented in an animal mound of Wisconsin.” Some of the
animal forms represented in mounds are easily recognized, while others
are hard to determine. For example, Squier and Davis say of one: ‘It
human figure.”
may have been intended to represent a bird, a bow and arrow, or the

Skunk.—Fragment of skull from mound No. 6, Naples, Ill. (Axte., p.
—¥+, and skull found in mound in Dakota.’

Squirrel.—Mound pipe from Ohio. From the marking on the side it
may be that this specimen was intended to represent the flying squirrel,
Pteromys volucella.

Gopher (Spermophilus Franklini) Sabine.-—Ohio mound pipe."' Several
species of this family are so nearly allied that it is not certain which
was intended to be represented.

Manatee.—Seven sculptured pipes from Ohio mounds.”

Walrus.—Pipe from Ohio mound.”

Alligator.—Drilled teeth found in Ohio."

Turtle—Pipe from Ohio mound.” Pipe from mound No. 2, Naples,
Ill. (Ante, p. —, Fig 5.) Bones found in mound on the Wabash River,
Indiana, by Prof. F. W. Putnam.'® Represented in animal mounds of
Wisconsin.”

1 Flint Chips, p. 430, Fig. 68.

2¥oster’s Prehistoric Races, p. 137.
*Squier and Davis, Ancient Monuments, p. 257, Fig. 155; Flint Chips, p. 428, Fig. 63.

4 Smithsonian Report, 1871, p. 392.

5 Smithsonian Report, 1871, p. 394.

6S§quier and Davis, Ancient Monuments, p. 257, Fig. 156.

YLapham’s Antiquities of Wisconsin, Plate XXIX.

Squier and Davis, Ancient Monuments, p. 130.

° Smithsonian Report, 1871, p. 394.

10 Flint Chips, 428, Fig. 62.

"Squier and Davis, Ancient Monuments, Fig. 157; Flint Chips, p. 428,Fig. 61.

Squier and Davis, Ancient Monuments, pp. 251, 252; Figs. 153, 154; Flint Chips, p.
429, Figs. 65, 66.

18 Squier and Davis, Ancient Monuments, p. 271, Fig. 192; Flint Chips, p. 430, Fig. 67.

1# Squier and Davis, Ancient Monuments, p. 282, Fig. 197.

15 Flint Chips, p. 423, Fig. 43.

16 Foster’s Prehistoric Races, p. 137.

‘7 Lapham’s Antiquities of Wisconsin.
716 PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY.

Frog.—Sculptured figure in mound pipe of Davenport collection,' and
pipe taken from mound No. 8, at Naples, Il.

Toad.—Sculptured figure in mound pipes of Ohio.?

Serpent.—Coiled around sculptured pipes from Ohio mounds.’ Rep-
resented in an immense earthwork, Adams County, Ohio,‘ and in the
animal mounds of Wisconsin.®

Rattlesnake.—Carved on Ohio pipes ;° carved figure found in Ohio
mound,’ and figures carved on shells found in mounds of Tennessee.?

Lizards.— Represented in animal mounds of Wisconsin.®

Shells—Many marine species have been exhumed from the mounds.
The cassis, fulgur perversus of Lamark, the oliva, marginella, and natica,
and probably strombus found in mounds of Ohio.? Splendid specimen
of a fulgur perversus taken from mound No. 1, Naples, Ul. Large num-
bers of these have been found in mounds near the mouth of the Illinois
River by the Hon. William McAdams, many of which were exhibited
by him at the Boston meeting of the American Association. Shells of
the common mussel were found by the writer at the base of mound No.
3, Naples, Ill. Great numbers of beads made from the species marginella,
oliva, and natica have been found in the mounds." Of fluviatile species
the mounds of Ohio have furnished unio ellipticus, rectus, verrucosus, and
ovatus, “all existing at the present time in the neighboring streams.””

Bald eagle—Sculptared pipe from mound No. 8, near Naples, Il."

Eagle.

Hawk.—Sculptured pipes from mounds of Ohio.®

Owl.—Three species, viz: ‘Great owl, horned ow], and the little owl”
are recognized in the scultpured pipes from the Ohio mounds.”

Turkey buzzard (Carthartes aura).—Sculptured pipe from mounds of
Ohio.”

Wild turkey.x—Bones found by the writer in mounds Nos. 6 and 7,
Naples, Ill.

1 Proceedings Davenport Academy of Science, vol. 1, p. 118, and Plate IV, Fig. 5.

2Squier and Davis, Ancient Monuments, p. 268, Figs. 143, 184, 185.

3 Squier and Davis, Ancient Monuments, pp. 248, 268, Figs. 143, 186.

4Id., p. 96, Plate XXXV.

5 Lapham’s Antiquities of Wisconsin, pp. 37, 38.

6 Squier and Davis, Ancient Monuments, &c., p. 268.

7Id., p. 276.

8 Fifth Annual Report Peabody Museum, pp. 17, 18, and Id., vol. 2, p. 89.

9Lapham’s Antiquities of Wisconsin.

10 Squier and Davis, Ancient Monuments, p. 283; Foster’s Prehistoric Races, pp. 234, 235.

1 Squier and Davis, Ancient Monuments, p. 233.

12 Squier and Davis, Ancient Monuments, p. 284.

18 Squier and Davis, Ancient Monuments, p. 259.

14 Squier and Davis, Ancient Monuments, p. 70.

16 Squier and Davis, Ancient Monuments, p. 259, and Fig. 165; Flint Chips, p. 428,
Fig. 60.

16 Squier and Davis, Ancient Monuments, p. 259; Flint Chips, p. 427, Fig. 57.

17Squier and Davis, p. 260, and Fig. 171; Flint Chips, p. 427, Fig. 58.
PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. T17

Prairie hen (cupidonia cupido), Linn).—Sculptured pipe from Ohio
mound.!

Also, pipe from Davenport mound, lowa.?

Quail (Ortyx virginianus).—Sculptured mound pipe from Ohio.’

Toucan.—Sculptured pipes from Ohio mounds.‘

Parroquet.—Sculptured pipe from Ohio mound.°

Cedar bird, (Ampelis cedrorum).—Sculptured pipes from Ohio mound.®

Swallow.—Sculptured pipes from Ohio mound.’

Night heron.—Sculptured pipe from Ohio mound.°

Wood duck (Aix sponsa).—Head sculptured upon Ohio mound pipe.®

Prof. C. W. Butler, comparative anatomist, Champaign, Il., very
kindly identified for me the bones found in the Naples mounds.

From the foregoing list it may easily be surmised that all the ami-
mals found in the Valley of the Mississippi upon the advent of the
white race were familiar to the builders of mounds, also possibly some
whose habitat was far distant, such as the mastodon and walrus of the
north or the manatee, the toucan and tropical shells of the south.

From the “finds” in the Naples mounds we can plainly see that con-
siderable commerce was carried on by their builders, as we here find a
shell from the coast of Florida, obsidian from Mexico, lead ore from
Wisconsin, copper from Lake Superior, and mica from the Alleghanies.
It was once contended that the great age of the mounds was shown by
the fact that they had never been found upon the latest or lowest river
terraces. This statement has been disproved, however, as in more than
one instance in the west they have been found upon the lowest terrace.
The largest mound explored at Naples is in the low-lands upon the very
brink of the river. Man naturally selects elevated positions for burial
sites. Mounds of observation would be built upon the highest points,
while other mounds, whether for houses, temples, or for whatever pur-
pose they might be built, would as a rule be placed beyond the reach
of overflows. These suggestions sufficiently account for the usual ab-
sence of these ancient works upon the low-lands along the rivers.

This locality is also rich in finely-worked stone implements. None,
however, have come from the mounds, but some of the finest articles
of chert were found a few feet below the surface at the foot of the
bluff upon which the eagle-pipe mound is situated. Below this about

1 Flint Chips, p. 425; Fig. 51.

2 Proceedings, Davenport Academy of Science, vol. 1, Plate IV, No. 14.

3 Flint chips, p. 425, Fig. 50.

4Squier and Davis, Ancient Monuments, pp. 260, 266, Figs. 169,178; Flint Chips, p.
426, Figs 53, 56.

5 Squier and Davis, Ancient Monuments, p. 265, and Fig. 172.

6 Squier and Davis, Ancient Monuments, p. 265, and Figs. 173,174; Flint Chips, p. 424,
Fig. 48.

oe and Davis, Ancient Monuments, p. 260, and Fig. 167; Flint chips, p. 424, Fig.
47.

8 Squier and Davis, Ancient Monuments, p. 259, Fig. 164; Flint Chips, p, 425, Fig. 52.

®Squier and Davis, Ancient Monuments, p. 260 and Fig. 168.

718 PAPERS RELATING TO ANTITROPOLOGY.

two miles was the ancient quarry from which the chert was taken to
manufacture knives, arrow-heads, and spear-heads. At the base of the
Burlington limestone bluff are found hundreds of fragments of chert
implements, broken and cast away by the workmen, amidst thousands
of chips. The material was obtained from the nodules in the limestone
and worked on the spot, but whether by the ancient mound folk or the
more modern Indian there is nothing to indicate. In an old book called
the Navigator, the writer, Patrick Kennedy, who passed up the Ili-
nois River in the year 1773, says ‘The Peories wintering-ground is

Cc

Fic. 28. European objects from mounds.

48 miles from the Mississippi. - - - Pierre Island is some dis-
tance above, near which, from a hill on the western side, the Indians
procure a fléche or arrow-stone, with which they make their gun flints
and point their arrows.” On an old map, furnished to Governor Ed-
wards in 1812 by John Hoy, a Frenchman, is found a creek marked
Pierre a la Fléche. In a letter to the Secretary of War, May, 1812, Gov-
ernor Edwards called this creek the Arrowstone. It is now known as
Flint Creek. The French no doubt derived the name from the Indians,
PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 719

and that Pierre @ la Fléche was a translation of the equivalent Algon-
kin. With these facts as a starting-point, the writer found the “ work-
shop,” which probably had been the scene of busy labor for centuries.
Upon the banks of the river at Naples are the burying-grounds of the
modern Indian, in which have been found many stone implements inter-
mingled with civilized manufactures, such as beads, knives, crosses of
silver, and other articles indicating traffic with the French during,
probably, the latter part of the seventeenth and the first half of the
eighteenth centuries. Some of these articles are shown in Fig. 28.
The above are all in the private collection of Richard H. Keener, esq.,
of Naples, Ill., who first gave the writer information relative to the
former exploration of mounds in the vicinity. The pottery exhumed
from this ancient cemetery shows that it was the common burial-place of
the race that built at least a part of the mounds, while the above and
similar articles of French manufacture show that the same place was
used as a burial site by the modern Indian. The same reason that
prompted these ancient races to select this locality as the resting-place
of the dead caused our own people to locate their cemetery within a few
hundred yards of the ancient one and upon the same ridge, just as the
modern city occupies the ancient village site, and the highways of travel
follow the ancient trails, the bones of races, separated by thousands of

Fic. 29. Pictographs on slab from rock-shelters near Naples, Il.

Though not immediately connected with this subject, yet possibly the
work of the same race who built the Naples mounds, attention is
called to foot-prints and other marks on a limestone slab found in a
rock-shelter on the east side of the Illinois River, about 10 miles below
Eagle-pipe mound. This slab originally formed a projecting shelf in the
rock-shelter, but is now broken off and stands on its edge at the opening
720 PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY.

of the shelter.* From the preceding cut, Fig. 29, it will be seen that there
is a remarkable similarity between the tracks and other markings upon
this rock and those of the Barnesville and Newark ‘ track-rocks” of Ohio,
as figured inthe Ohio Centennial Report, pp. 91, 92, 93, 95, and pp. 58 and
59 of the Journal of the Anthropological Institute of New York.

Mr. J. H. Salisburyt maintains, ‘‘ that the ancient bird-track char-
acter belonged to the mound-builders is evident from the fact that it is
found among their works constructed of soil on a large scale. One of
these bird-track mounds occurs in the center of the large circular in-
closure near Newark, Ohio, now standing in the Licking County Fair
Grounds.” On the lowlands, half a mile south of this rock-shelter,
are sixteen mounds, in a straight line, running a little east of north, and
directly toward the rock-shelter. These mounds are all about 25 feet
high and about 25 feet in diameter. Nothing has been found in them.
Those toward the south are composed largely of slabs of Burlington
limestone obtained from the neighboring bluff, while those toward the
north are composed wholly of earth. Another similar row of mounds is
found in Scott County.

In conclusion, I will add, the dividing line between the mound-
builders and the modern Indian—that is, the Indians of the Mississippi
Valley of two hundred years ago, and especially those inhabiting the
lower part of that great valley, is not so distinct as is generally sup-
posed. It is almost the universal opinion of those who have made the
subject a study that the mound-builders were not the ancestors of the
red Indian, but, on the contrary, were a distinct race, much furth
advanced in civilization, and that by choice or pressure of barbarous
tribes from the north they abandoned their homes, or that they were
exterminated by war, famine, disease, or domestic dissensions. Fully
imbued with this idea, the writer began the study of the relics of
this nameless race, but in the end has been compelled to abandon this
received opinion and to conelude that the mound-builders were the an-
cestors of the southern tribes. There is no distinctive feature, whether
physical or anatomical, whether in art or custom, that would stand the
test of criticism as peculiar to that ancient race. If the comparison is
made between the earthworks, implements, copper ornaments, pottery,
and other relics of the mound-builders and the works and character of the
modern Indian, with a straw hat on his head, a Mackinaw blanket and
calico shirt about his shoulders, skinning animals with a steel knife of
yankee manufacture, cooking his food in an iron pot from the same
source, and all the manhood that was ever in him crushed out by fire-
water and contact with the worst elements of civilization and fear of a
dominant race, then, indeed, the line is distinct and well marked; but
if instead of the modern Indian we substitute the red man, who lived

*A plaster cast of this track-rock was presented to the Smithsonian Museum in 1878.
t Centennial Report, p. 96.
PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. (an

in the valley of the Mississippi two or three hundred years ago, as de-
scribed by the chroniclers of De Soto’s expedition, or by the followers
of Loyola, who, carrying the cross through prairie and desert and wilder-
ness, ever had an eye open and a pen ready to record the character, cus-
toms, habits, and superstitions of the strange race about them, then the
line of demarkation fades away, if it does not entirely disappear. Here
we find mound-builders, fort-builders, manufacturers of stone imple-
ments, pottery, bark-cloth, feather-cloth, ornaments—in short, a race of
men dependent.on their own resources for supplying their wants of every
nature, physical or mental.

A dying race—a race crushed out by the struggle of nations for room
in the world, with no human heart to appreciate and no historian to
record its wrongs, its own virtues lost, and to its vices added the vices
of civilization, is not a fit subject for the scientist, but rather for the
moralist.

THE GLIDWELL MOUND, FRANKLIN COUNTY, INDIANA.
By Dr. G. W. HoMsHER, of Fairfield, Ind.

This mound is two miles south of the village of Fairfield, Franklin
County, Indiana, and is situated upon a very high hill, or bluff, and on
the East Fork of the White Water River. It faces the river.on the
east side, almost opposite the mouth of Wolf Creek. To the south and
east of the hill is Templeton’s Creek, both creeks emptying into the
White Water. On the south side and at the foot of the hill are two
very fine springs which never run dry.

From the water’s edge of the river to the summit of the hill is 796
feet. Surrounding the hill, facing the river and Templeton’s Creek are
five terraces, commencing at a ravine on the north side of the hill, pass-
ing across the west side, thence around the south side, about two-thirds
of the distance. Time and constant washing have obliterated them
beyond that point.

These terraces originally were from 30 to 50 feet wide, but at the
present time they measure, commencing at the base of the hill, the
first, 32 feet in width; the second, third, and fourth, 24 feet in width;
and the fifth, 48 feet in width. The distance from the water’s edge to
the first terrace is 300 feet; from the first to the second is 64 feet; from
the second to the third, 80 feet; from the third to the fourth, 104 feet;
from the fourth to the fifth, 80 feet; and from the fifth to the summit
of the hill is 168 feet. On the west side (where these measurements
were taken) the bank facing the river is almost perpendicular. It is
almost impossible for one to climb the hill from the fifth terrace to the
summit on the west side, or that side facing the river. These terraces
are also broader on that side and are the least washed, in fact, there are
no gullies cut down through the hill or terraces. Large oak, maple, elm,

hickory, iron-wood, beech, and gum trees are growing all over them.
H. Mis. 26 46

(ee PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY.

From the summit of this hill one has a grand view of the valley extending
north about 7 miles, and can see the locations of other mounds that dot
the hill-tops and second terraces of this beautiful and productive valley,
and those along Wolf Creek and other tributaries that empty into the
White Water.

f

AEE:

kn.

Bog args

A.—The Glidwell Mound, Franklin Co., Ind.

The Rev. J. P. MacLean, of Hamilton, Ohio, claimed these so-called
terraces to be land-slides, but acknowledges those surrounding the
fortified mound on the Templeton hill to be the work of the mound-
builders. Now, the terraces surrounding the fortified mound on Tem-

Dd
PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 723

pleton’s hill are five in number, the same as that of the Glidwell mound;
their width ranges from 24 to 30 feet. The distance from one to another
is from 60 to 120 feet. Again, it is not likely that three terraces sur-
rounding the same hill would measure the same in width and run
parallel with each other from one side to another, and be land-slides,
Such, it will be noticed, is the case with the second, third, and fourth of
those surrounding the Glidwell hill.

Furthermore, no land-slide has been found across any of the hills or
bluffs, along the White Water, without a break at least every hundred
or two hundred feet. But such is not the casein any of the above-men-
tioned five terraces, which measure from 700.to 900 feet in length, with-
out a break or gully, and they are sufficiently wide to drive two road-
wagons side by side from one end to the other. The similarity of the
two fortified mounds is almost complete. The measurements of the
length of the terraces and the height from the water’s edge of the

ai

Fic. 1.—Copper bracelet from Glidwell Mound.

Templeton hill was not taken, but the Templeton hill is much higher
than the Glidwell hill, and commands a fine view of the White Water
south to Brookville, where the East and West Forks unite into one
stream.

The first time the writer visited the Glidwell mound was in April,
1871. It was then 15 feet high and 60 feet in diameter. Mr. T. L.
Dickerson assisted in taking these measurements.
The composition of the mound is of fine brick or com-
pact clay, which has been brought from Wolf Creek,
almost three-quarters of a mile from the mouth of the
creek and one mile from the summit of the hill or
| mound. This mound was covered with flat, shelly
"He aus limestone, one overlapping another, similar to shingles
Fic. 2.—Copper ringupon a roof. Over this was a deposit of loam varying
from Glidwell Mound. from 14 to 3 feet. On the west side are still standing
two iron-wood trees about 13 inches in diameter, also a large maple. On
724 PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY.

the north side, about one-third the distance up the mound is a large
maple 24 feet in diameter. On the east side are large beech, maple, and
iron-wood trees. At the edge of the mound and on the south side is a
stump of a large maple, very much decayed. There are five distinct
strata (see vertical section): No. 2 is 5 feet thick and of compact clay ;
No. 3 is 14 feet thick and is composed of ashes and clay; No. 4 is 8
inches, and consists of ashes and coal; No. 5 is 23 feet thick, and made
of burnt clay; No. 6 is 22 feet deep, and composed of clay and burnt
stones. Between the strata Nos. 4 and 5 were three hearths made of
sand and limestone, one in the center, one in the northeast, and the
third in the northwest part of the mound. (See foregoing sketch, A.)
In June, 1879, in company with Mr. T. L. Dickerson and Thomas Glid-
well, the writer sunk a shaft 12 feet deep into the center, and in the
course of the work removed one skeleton
with several fragments of pottery and
one fine copper bracelet (Fig. 1). The
copper had been pounded into a thin
sheet and then rolled. <A similar one,
but smaller, was found some time after-
wards by Mrs. A. Crist in the same
mound, and is now in Mr. A. W. Butler’s
collection (Fig. 2). The above-men-
tioned skeleton was 6 feet 5 inches be-
low the slabs or rock covering (base
section, center figure, head to the east.)
In July, 1880, the writer visited the
mound in company with Mr. C. W.

Re

Fic, 3.—Bone awl from Glidwell Mound. Fic. 4.—Arrow point from Glidwell Mound.
Ruse, and commenced a trench 5 feet wide in the southeast side, about
5 feet from the base (base section, dotted line), and trenched to the
center. When within 3 feet of center shaft we came upon and re-

ee SIONS A

jae are
PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 725

moved a skull, which was 5 feet from the top of the mound and 3 feet
below the rock covering. But, strange to say, no other part of the
skeleton could be found, or any marks of decayed bones. After the
center shaft was reached it was sunk 2 feet deeper, and trenched back
to the place of beginning. In the process six skeletons were removed
in a very good state of preservation, two with heads to the east; one to
the south; one to the north; one to the southeast; one to the northeast.
Over one skeleton, whose head pointed to the east, were laid two others
(see base section), the head of one to the south, of the other to the north.
With this group were found one bone bodkin or needle (Fig. 3); two
arrow-points (Fig. 4); several
pieces of animal bones, with a
iew fragments of pottery (Fig. 5).
In August, 1880, in company
with Mr. J. E. Snider, the writer
continued his investigation by
commencing a trench on the west
side about 4 feet from the base
(base section, dotted lines), and
trenched to the center shaft, re-
moving fourskeletons. Three of
these lay with their heads to the
east; one with the head to the
south, or rather a little to the
Pia. 5 —Pottery from Glidwel! Mound. southeast (see base plan of sketch

A). With the group of three were found several pieces of pottery, one

Fic. 6.—! ‘nrnt disk from Glidwell Mound.
726 PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY.

burnt disk (Fig. 6), one pendant, etchings on one side, diagonal lines on
reverse (Fig. 7). The six skeletons removed with Mr. Kuse’s assistance

Fic. 7.—Pendant from Glidwell Mound.

were 6 feet 9 inches below the rock covering. The four removed with the
aid of Mr. J. E. Snider were 54 feet below the rock
protection, near the enter of the mound. .

May.10, 1881, the Rev. C. W. Hargett and Mr. E. ;
Osborn helped to open a trench 6 feet wide on the
south side of the mound, and 2 feet below thesurface =
surrounding the mound (see base plan of first sketch j

A,—dotted lines), and continued to the center shaft. fj
At this time were removed four skeletons. With ;
the second skeleton, under the lower jaw, were found 7
two beads (Fig. 8) made of the wnio shell, split deer }

or elk bones (Fig. 9), and a few
chips of flint, or chert. The first
skeleton was 4 feet below the rock
protection; the second 4 feet 7 in-
ches; the third 6 feet 5 inches; the
fourth, near the center, was 6 feet
10 inches below the protection.
August 23, 1881, by the assist- sca Oe a oe
ance of the Rev. C. W. Hargett, wen Mound.
Lewis Mullien, and William Hippard, an infant skele-
ton was found 7 feet below the rock covering, and a
little north of the center hearth, in a direct line with
the northeast and northwest hearths. (See base sec-
tion.) Over this skeleton had been placed two large
& flat stones. The bones were very much decayed, so
Fic. 9.—Chertehip from MUCH so that there could be removed only a few frag- q
Glidwell Mound. ments of the skull. The skeleton measured in length
3 feet 14 inches. Noornaments of any kind were found with this skele-
ton. It lay with the head to the east. To the east of the skeleton,a ~

PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 27

small stone hearth was discovered, made of small round stones, princi-
pally sandstone. August 29, 1881, Mr. A. W. Butler and Rev. D. R.
Moore commenced near the center and trenched to the west side, follow-
ing the old trench made by the writer and Mr. J. E. Snider. In doing
so they removed three skeletons or parts, one lying with the head to the
north, one northwest, and one northeast. (See base section.)
September 5, 1881, with the aid of Mr. A. W. Butler, digging was
commenced again at the place where Mr. Butler and Moore left off,

Fic. 10.—Slate ‘‘ gorget”’ from Glidwell Mound.
and continued to the north and east; two skeletons were removed
one with the head to the northeast, one with the head to the east, and
one overlapping across the middle the one whose head pointed to the
east. A fine gorget (Fig. 10), about one-fourth of a large celt, some
fragments of pottery, and animal bones were found.

September 12, 1881, the same party again visited this mound and
continued investigations. Two skeletons were removed, one with the
head to the north, one with the head to the east. (See base section.) A
stone hearth was fouud in the northwest part of the mound. This hearth
was made of small bowlders. A little north of the covering of the infant
was removed a skeleton of an adult, protected similarly to that of the
infant, the head pointing to the south. The skeletons removed by Mr.
Butler and the writer were from 54 to 6 feet below the rock covering.
The fragments of pottery removed from this mound bore, no ornamental
etchings or moldings upon them. They were unglazed, both externally
and internally, and were made of fine quartz sand or pulverized quartz,
pulverized shell, and fine, compact clay. The bone bodkin is evidently
made from the bone of the deer. The only parts of the above-named
728 PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY.

skeletons which could be recovered were the crania, and they badly de-
eayed. In fact only one was removed in such a condition that it could
be put together, and that one is deposited in the museum of the Brook-
ville Natural Historical Society. The prominent features of that arean
exceedingly narrow forehead, receding, with an extremely broad occiput,
zygomaticarch largeand prominent, inferior maxillary large and massive.

I find the characteristics mentioned by Mr. Gillman (Smithsonian Re-
port, 1875) in about four-fifths of the humeri and tibias removed from
this mound, but in the several parts of the skull no perforation as spoken
of by the above-named gentleman.

The dotted lines show that part of the mound that has been removed.
All that outside of these lines has been reserved for future investiga-
tions.

REMAINS ON WHITE WATER RIVER, INDIANA.
By GEORGE W. HomsHER, M. D., of Fairfield, Ind.

Themounds, workshops, cemeteries, block-houses and camping grounds
herein described are located on the East Fork of White Water River,
in a portion of Brookville, Springfield, Bath, and Blooming Grove Town-
ships, and in all partsof Fairfield Township, Franklin County, Indiana ;
in all of Harmony, with a portion of Center and Liberty Townships, in
Union County ; and also, in portion of Jackson and Jennings Townships,
of Fayette County.

The Kast Fork of White Water River is a beautiful stream, whose head
waters originate in the northeast part of Wayne County, Indiana, flow-
ing in a southern direction through Wayne, Union, and Franklin Coun-
ties, to a point near the center of Brookville Township, just south of
the town of Brookville, where it joins the West Fork. These united
form the White Water which runs ina south and east course across the
southern part of the township until it crosses the southern boundary
line near the southeast corner, thence south and west until it empties into
the Ohio River near Lawrenceburg. Both branches and their tribu-
taries are noted for the richness of the soil, as well as for the great num-
ber of mounds, workshops, cemeteries, &c., that are distributed upon
their upper and lower terraces from their sources to their mouths. In
touching upon the location of the structures, &c., reference will be made
to the townships and sections. And in this report the range, as well as
the survey and description of each structure is given. Thus by the aid
of the map all the ancient structures may be visited without any diffi-
culty whatever.

In a paper read before the Brookville Natural Historical Society, the
writer touched upon the mounds, workshops, cemeteries, &c., of a por-
tion of Brookville, Springfield, Bath, and Fairfield Townships, of Frank-
lin County. The society appointed a committee to prepare a complete
map of the county, locate each structure, and give a description thereof.

Mn gene ce a

a

Eee tn

SEER I
PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 729

As this committee has not made a report, in this communication will be
presented the latest survey, which includes the townships mentioned
above. The distance from Brookville to mound No. 80, the most north-
ern here described, is 16 miles. The townships of Liberty, Center, and
Union, of Union County, have been only partially investigated. Several
tumuli are said to exist within these townships, but the exact location
is not known. Just east of Brookville is a very high hill, whose head-
land juts out to the river, and from the apex of this hill, one looking
south has a grand view of the White Water below the junction of the
two rivers, and of a few of its tributaries, for several miles. To the west
and northwest, up the beautiful valley of the West Fork, the eye be-
comes tired with the picturesque landscape of the whole valley, whose
second and third terraces are dotted o’er with ancient earthworks, both
single and in groups. Again, looking north, up the East Fork, we be-
hold another enchanting scene, whose lofty hills hug close the clear
waters from either side as it winds its way through the fertile valley
and along its course. *

The writer has spent many pleasant hours investigating the last rest-
ing places and other structures of a people who once spent their time
here in fishing and hunting, and in the cultivation of the cereals upon
which they partly subsisted.

Mound No. 2 is in See. 5., T. 9 N., R. 2 W., near the southwest corner
of the southwest quarter section, almost directly opposite the bridge
that spans the river at the base of the hill, on the west side of the river,
and between two ravines, one on the north and the other on the south
side of the hill. This is known as the Templeton’s Fortified Mound,
an account of which was given by Edgar Quick in the Smithsonian Re-
port for 1879, and by Dr. Rufus Hayman in the Geological Report of
Franklin County, Indiana, of 1869. The Doctor’s report is, to some ex-
tent, incorrect, so far as the description of the work is concerned. This
mound is on the top of a very high hill, not less than 375 or 400 feet high.
Itis built on a plateau, back from the apex of the hill at least 500 yards,
and partly surrounded by a semi-circular wall on the east side and a ditch
on the west. The semi circle extends across the plateau from the ravine
on the north side to the ravine on the south side. This semi-circular wall
is very distinct, measuring, in some places, 3 feet in height. The ditch
on the inside of the wall was formed by the removal of the dirt to con-
struct the wall. It measures, in some places,from 2 to 24 feet in depth.
If there was a wall of any description on the west side it has been ob-
literated. About 250 yards on the west side is a very wide ditch, from
9 to 10 feet, symmetrical from one end to the other, and about 3 to4 feet

*Mr. C. C. Royce, on his map showing the cessions of land by Indian tribes to the
United States, in the annual report of the Bureau of Ethnology for 1879-1880, lays
down the junction of the East and West Forks just south of Connersville, and about
midway of the lines of the old boundary line and the 12-miles purchase. This is a
mistake. The two forks unite within the territory known as the Wayne purchase.
730 PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY.

deep. In it and on its banks are growing some very large trees. Sur-
rounding the hill are five terraces, commencing some distance up the
ravine on the side of the hill facing the north, thence passing around
the hill facing the south, extending some distance up the ravine on the
south side of the hill. These terraces vary in width from 20 to 40 feet,
and from one to another as you ascend the hill the distance is 50 to 75
feet. The length of those terraces also varies from 600 to 800 yards.
The outlines and formation are defaced but little, only a few gullies
having cut their way through them to mar theirsymmetry. The whole
hill is covered by a very heavy forest, and trees are growing upon the
terraces and hillside that will measure from 4 to 43 feet in diameter; in
fact, this hill in outline is similar to the Glidwell Fortified Mound, with
the same number of graded ways or terraces. The construction of these
graded ways, with semi-circular walls and ditch, is conclusive evidence
that this hill, at one time, was an ancient fortification. The original
height of this mound, by measurement of the several strata, is 10 feet,
and the diameter at base 40 feet. It is composed of brick clay, ashes,
and charcoal. The mound has been badly mutilated by curiosity seek-
ers; skeletons have been thrown out promiscuously and broken, which
no doubt with a little care could have been removed intact. Mr.
James Rucker, who took great interest in the study of archeology, in-
formed the writer, in regard to the positions in which the subjects were
laid in this mound, that they were placed promiscuously throughout that
portion of the mound which has been mutilated, and all within the clay
forming the base stratum. He himself removed several, but not know-
ing how to treat them properly, they were broken into fragments in his
efforts to preserve them, and, deeming them of no value, he threw them
out with the dirt among the rubbish.

A portion of the mound still remains undisturbed. This will afford an
opportunity perhaps to secure a portion of the remaining objects which
have been entombed therein. From this mound there is a good view of
the uplands between the two forks of the White Water, also mounds 1,
3, 4, 5, 6, and 12 can be seen.

Number 3 is on the same side of the river, about one-half mile north,
and located in See. 4, T. 9 N., R. 2 W., midway of the west part of the
northwest quarter section 4, on Mr. George Templeton’s farm. This
mound is a little more than half way up the hill, in.the center of a de-
pression about the shape of a horseshoe. Above, below, and on each
side of the depression it has about the same angle of descent as that of
other parts of the hill. This is the only mound the writer has ever seen
built midway of a hill.

Number 4 is in the northeast corner of the southeast quarter Sec. 9,
T.9 N., R. 2 W., on Mr. Jeff. Logan’s farm, on the second terrace forma-
tion. Originally it was about 6 feet high, with a base diameter of 50
feet; but it has been under annual cultivation for about forty years,
which has almost obliterated it. A few more years will level it with
PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 731

the surrounding earth. As to whether bones of any description have
ever been found in this mound during the process of tilling or otherwise
no information can be obtained. Mr. James Rucker, when living, secured
a great many arrow-points, axes, &c., from the field in which this mound
is located. ;

Number 5 isin T.9 N., R. 2 W., near the southwest corner of the
southwest quarter section 2, on Mr. James Logan’s farm, and on the high-
est terrace formation, on the west side of a small creek that runs through
the farm and empties into the south fork of Templeton’s Creek at
Locks Chapel. This mound is 4 feet high, 30 feet in diameter at the
base, and is composed of fine brick clay. From this mound, looking to
the east, one can see mound No. 6 in the northeast corner of the south-
east quarter Sec. 1, T. 9 N., R. 2 W., which is also on one of Mr. James
Logan’s farms, on the highest terrace formation. This mound is 4 feet
high, with a base diameter of 40 feet, and is composed of brick clay.

Number 7 is in T. 9 N., R. 1 W., Sec. 6, midway between the east and
west quarter section lines, of the southeast quarter, and only a few rods
from the north quarter section line. The height is 44 feet, the diameter
at the base 30 feet, and it is composed of brick clay.

Number 8 is in T. 9 N., R. 1 W., Sec. 5, near the northwest corner of
the northwest quarter section, close to the Billingsville and Springfield
pike. The field in which this tumulus stands joins the pike, and is
known as the mound field. The height of the structure is 64 feet, the
diameter at the base 50 feet, and it is composed of brick clay,

Number 9 is in See. 35, T. 10 N., R. 2 W., in the southwest corner of
the northeast quarter, on the north side of the south fork of Temple-
ton’s Creek, on the highest terrace formation, and on Mr. Mark Mul-
lien’s farm. The height is 5 feet, the diameter at the base, 45 feet, and
the composition compact clay.

Number 10 is in the same section, northeast of No. 9 but a few rods,
on the same farm. The composition is compact clay.

_Number 11 is a circle, in Sec. 25, T. 10 N., R. 2 W., midway between
the north and the south quarter-section lines of the northeast quarter,
and 10 rods from the west quarter-section line, on the side of the south
fork of Templeton’s Creek, and on Mr. Henry Fry’s farm. This circle is 80
feet in diameter and 2424 feet in circumference. The embankment form-
ing the circle is 24 feet high. On this embankment are hickory trees
from 3 to 34 feet in diameter. Within the circle or embankment there
is not a tree, but outside of it on every side are heavy woods. This
circle, like others examined, was constructed for protection to the dwell-
ing, and not for an arena in which, or around which, were performed
various ceremonies. Probably it was not constructed for a protection
during a war among the tribes; but after the erection of the dwelling the
savages dug this circle just inside of their building, so that in case of
rain the water would be carried off and not run within, thus securing to
the occupant a dry and comfortable floor. Otherwise, the ground
732 PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY.

within being tramped down, would be lower than that outside, and,
when it rained, the water would run within the wigwam and make a
wet and disagreeable floor. Their conceptions were acute to all the
comforts of life, for we see in all their work comfort and protection so
far as it was in their power to secure and apply that which surrounded
them.

Number 12 is in Sec. 33, T. 10 N., R. 2 W., on the east side of the
river, midway between the west and east quarter-section lines of the
southeast quarter, and near the north line of the same quarter. This
is the noted Glidewell mound,* which is not only a fortified mound, but
was also used for burial purposes. No doubt it has also been used as
an observatory or signal mound, from the fact that from the top there
is a grand view of the valley and uplands of Wolf Creek. Looking
south and southwest, west, and north, can be distinguished mounds 2,
3, 4, 13, 14, 15, 16, 18, 19, 20, 25, 26, 27, 28, 29, 49, 50, 41, 42; workshops
57, 58, 59, 60, 61, 63; cemeteries 64,65; camping grounds 70, 73, 75;
Stone graves 54, 55. <A fire burning upon this mound could plainly be
seen at all these points, and perhaps at others were it not for the inter-
vention of a heavy forest that has grown up since these mounds were
constructed. They are allin a line with this mound, and a few of them
ean be located from the Templeton Fortified Mound No. 2; perhaps all
could be were it not for the same intervention.

Number 13 is in Sec. 33, T. 10 N., R. 2 W., midway between the east
and west quarter-section lines of the northwest quarter and 40 rods from
the north line, on the west side of the river. It occupies a very promi-
nent ridge that projects out to a small creek on the north side that
empties into the river on Mr. Alex. Johnston’s farm and second terrace
formation. This mound is 8 feet high with a base diameter of 40 feet.
On top of this structure is a very large maple tree. From this summit,
and only thence, are to be seen mounds 51, 52.

Number 14 is in See. 52, T.10 N., R. 2 W., in the northeast corner of
the northeast quarter of the section, on the highest terrace formation, also
on Mr. Johnston’s farm, better known as the Hallfarm. This mound is
54 feet high, with a base diameter of 46 feet. The composition is com-
pact clay.

Number 15 is in Sec. 5, T.9 N., R. 2 W., midway between the north
and south quarter-section lines of the northwest quarter of the section,
and 6 rods from the west line, on the highest terrace formation, on the
west side of Berris’s Creek, on Mr. Chas. Conrad’s farm, and in plain
view of the Glidwell mound No. 12. This mound is 4 feet high, with
a base’diameter of 35 feet and composed of compact clay.

Number 16 is in Sec. 32, T. 10 N., R. 2 W., near the corner of the south-
west quarter, in the highest terrace formation, north of Wolf Creek and

*This mound is fully described in the preceding article, with drawings, giving
vertical and horizontal sections, and showing position of skeletons exhumed, &c.

ip. en aa: meee Sone nag -
PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 733

east of a small creek called Monday Branch, on Mr. Phil. Snider’s farm.
The hill or headland on which this mound is built projects out to this
small stream called Monday Branch. The tumulus is 8 feet high, with
a base diameter of 60 feet, and composed of compact clay, coal, and ashes.
Five distinct strata were encountered, varying from 7 to 20 inches in
thickness. No bones of any description were found, nor ornaments or
fragments of pottery, in fact nothing that would go to show thatit had
been used for burial purposes. It wassimply asignal mound. Taking
the location and surroundings into consideration a better site could not
be found on the East Fork of White Water River, one that commands as
large a scope of country as this, of both uplands and valley. To the
east, west, north, and south, the hill towers above a majority of the sur-
rounding forest, with nothing to obstruct the grand view that is presented
to the eye from all points of the compass. One hundred and fifty yards
northeast of the mound is an excellent spring of never-failing water.
From this mound can be distinguished mounds 12, 14, 15, 17, 18, 19, 20,
27, 28, 34, 35, 36, 37, 38, 39, 40, 41, 42, 43, 45, 46, 47, 48, 50, 53, 76, stone
grave 55, workshops 57, 59, 60, 62.

Number 17 is in See. 13, T. 12 N., R.13 E., 20 rods from the boundary
line, midway between the north and south section lines, and on the south
side of a small branch that empties into Monday Branch, second terrace
formation, on Mr. Jacob Master’s farm. This mound is oblong, 75 feet
long, 5 feet high, and 35 feet in diameter at the center. It is simply a
heap of fine compact clay; no ashes or charcoal were discovered in trench-
ing it both ways longitudinally and diagonally. It could not have been
used as a Signal mound, for it is in the hollow of a small ravine, and
only to be seen from No. 16.

Number 18 is in See. 31, T. 10 N., R. 2 W., midway of the north part
of the section, 10 rods from north section line, and near the township
line that divides Fairfield and Blooming Grove, on the former boundary
line that divided the Territory of Ohio and Indiana. (‘‘ This line was
established at Greenville, Ohio, treaty in 1795,”) and it is also in that
territory known as the “ Twelve-mile purchase.” The mound is on the
farm of Mr. Jacob Master, sr., and has been under annual cultivation
for the past forty years. Mr. A. Buckley, who settled this farm, informed
the writer that when he cleared the timber from the field in which the
mound is located, it was then 9 feet high, and surrounded by an embank-
ment, with a deep ditch, evidently from which the material was taken
to build the mound andembankment. At the present date the ditch is
obliterated, and but a faint ridge marks the outline of the embankments.
The remaining part of the mound is 2 feet high, with a base diameter of
45 feet. From this field a great many fine arrows, axes, celts, pestles, &c.,
have been picked up. In trenching the remaining portion only burnt
clay, ashes, and charcoal were encountered. No bones of any descrip-
tion, ornaments, or fragments of pottery were seen. So far back as the
time that this field was brought under cultivation, Mr. Herrall has no
T34 PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY.

recollection of ever plowing up so much asa fragment of a human skele-
ton, nor has the present owner ever observed anything of the kind; there-
fore this mound also must have been constructed for a signal station.

Number 19 is in See. 29, T. 10 N., R. 2 W., in the southwest corner of
the southwest quarter, on the highest terrace formatiom, and on Mr.
Wilson Jones’s farm. This mound, like No. 18, has been under cultiva-
tion for a great many years, which has diminished its size considerably,
so that at the present time it only measures 4 feet in height, and as to
the diameter of these cultivated mounds it is impossible to obtain any-
thing accurate. In trenching no signs of fire occurred. It is simply a
heap of compact clay.

Number 20is in See. 29, T. 10 N., R.2 W., about in the center of the north-
east quarter. It occupies the highest terrace formation on Mr. Jno.
Kelley’s farm, south of the Blooming Grove and Fairfield road, due east
from Mr. Kelley’s house about 30 rods, and very near the line of his
and Mrs. George Miller’s farm, just at the apex of the hill that juts up
to the ravine running along the base of the hill on the north side. This
mound, says Mr. Kelley, was originally 8 feet high, with a base diame-
ter of 50 feet, but with the plow and scraper he leveled it down, so
that he could cultivate over it, which he has continued to do for the
past twenty years. At the present date it measures 2 feet and 3 inches
in height. The portion levelled down was similar in the strata to the
remaining portion of the mound. Around this was a ditch and cireu-
lar wall or embankment, the wall originally was 2 feet high, with the
ditch upon the inside. But in leveling it the ditch was filled and the
circular embankment destroyed in several places. This circular wall
measured 225 feet. In the process of leveling was found a fine copper
gorget, which was used to mend a broken shovel-handle. The shovel
was purchased and the article removed in a mutilated condition. In
trenching the remaining portion of the mound the writer found one fine
leaf-shaped spear-point in the débris of ashes and charcoal, being some-
what burnt. From this mound can be distinguished mounds 34, 36, 37,
38, 39, 40, 41, 42, 43, 46, 47, 48, 49, 50, 12, 19, 25, in the autumn when the
forest is divested of its foliage. No doubt, at one time, judging from
the several locations of these mounds, no forest intervened between
them.

Number 21 is in See. 9, T. 12 N., R. 13 E.,in the southeast corner of
the southwest quarter of the section, second terrace formation of Duck
Creek, and on Mrs. Wilson’s farm. The height is 6 feet, base diameter,
36 feet, and the composition, compact clay.

Number 22 is in See. 4, T. 12 N., R. 13 E., in the southeast quarter of
the section, 60 rods from the north line and 40 from the east line. It
is located on Mr. J. Hay’s farm, and on the west side of the Blooming
Grove and Connersville pike, south side of Duck Creek, near where the
pike bridge spans the creek. This is also in the second terrace for-
mation of the creek. Its height is 8 feet, base diameter, 48 feet, and
composition, brick clay.

> eel SS ee ee
PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 135

Number 23 is in See. 34, 7.13 N., R. 13 E., in the southeast corner
of the northeast quarter of the section, on Mr. Milton Trusler’s farm,
due west of his residence about 20 rods. This mound has been culti-
vated for several years, long enough almost to obliterate it. Itis some-
what difficult to distinguish it from the surrounding surface.

Number 24 is in See. 33, T. 13 N., R. 13 E., in the southeast corner of
the northeast quarter of the section, near the east line, on Mr. J.
Backhouse’s farm, and but a few rods from the Blooming Grove and
Connersville pike, on the east side. The height is 7 feet, and base di-
ameter 60 feet. This mound also has been under cultivation for several
years; perhaps originally it was 10 feet high. It is composed of brick
elay.

Number 25 is in Sec. 17, T. 10 N., R. 2 W., near the west quarter
section of the southeast quarter, and north of the county line 40 rods.
It stands on the second terrace formation that juts out between two
small branches or creeks that empty into the river, about 15 rods south-
west of the residence of Mr. Jas. Herrall. The tumulus originally was
about 5 or 54 feet high, with a base diameter of 20 feet, but at the pres-
ent time it measures only 3 feet 9 inches. The diminished height is
owing to annual cultivation. Upon being trenched, several fragments
of calcined bone, one Spear-point, a small gorget, but no pottery or
fragments of pottery were found. The remaining portion is composed
ot four strata of ashes, charcoal, and clay. The fragments of bones,
relics, were found in the base or first stratum.

Number 26 is in Sec. 16, T. 10 N., R. 2 W., in the northeast corner of
the northwest quarter section, on the second terrace formation of the
river, north side of Bloyd’s Creek, between the creek and road, due
north of Mr. Orlando Campbell’s residence 2 rods. The creek during
the freshet of June 14, 1882, cut into it about 4 feet. This is a low, flat
mound, only 2 feet high, with a base diameter of 46 feet, and that of the
apex 40. In trenching, no bones or relics of any description were seen.
The mound is composed of fine sand, and covered by a very thin stratum
of brick clay. This is the only mound of this description known along
the valley or in the territory under investigation. If this was a resi-
dence mound, as some would term it, we should find several such mounds
grouped together. If this is to be construed as a camping ground or
village site, taking the location and surroundings into consideration, the
selection was poor and does not correspond with the better judgment
exercised by these people in the selection of the sites of their other
tumuli. Some contend that these were constructed for the site of the
chief’s wigwam or building, so as to afford him a better view over his
subjects or village, but such arguments are not convincing. The notion
that a low, flat mound, only 2 feet high, afforded a much better view is
preposterous, when within 40 feet of the mound we come upon the third
terrace formation 5 feet higher than the mound itself, affording a far
better view and over three times the amount of territory. The mound
736 PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY.

shows no action of fire, and no remains of any description were found
within it. It cauld not have been a resident mound, a burial mound, or
a sacrificial mound. In either case fragments of some kind would have
remained to tell its story.

Number 27 is in See. 8, T. 10 N., R. 2 W., in the northwest corner of the
southeast quarter section, on the highest terrace formation, at the apex
of the hill, and on the north side of Bloyd’s Creek. East of the mound,
about 100 yards, is a small ravine, fed by springs. The tumulus is 7
feet high, with a base diameter of 48 feet. It had been explored to
some extent about a year before the work of 1880, and the parties
who sunk the pit in the center found, while so doing, a part of a
pendant and a small celt, also, a few bones, ulna, radius, tibia,
and a portion of the spinal column, but no fragments of the cra-
nium. They, like a great many other curiosity hunters, placed
no value on these bones, but threw them out among the brush. The
exploration herein described commenced with a trench on the north side,
1 foot below the base, which ran longitudinally through the mound.
An unfinished gorget was found, one corner of which having lain in the
fire had become calcined to some extent. This ornament and the “finds”
of the other parties are made of striped slate. This mound will be fully
explored in the near future as opportunity offers, being only 14 miles
northwest of the village of Fairfield. The construction of this mound
is different from that of any other of the numerous mounds explored.
No distinct strata occur but patches of ashes and charcoal are inter-
spersed throughout the mound. There have been seven hearths, and
the fires kept burning there were intense, for the clay beneath each is
burnt to a brick, red and hard, also giving evidence that the fires have
been extinguished at different times, and covered over to be rebuilt in
another place. The construction of this mound is similar to that on
Shaw’s Point, on Manatee River, Florida, described by Mr. 8. F. Walker.
In its use, however, it was entirely different, for no charred animal
bones occur, nor were the bones removed by the first explorers in any
way burnt. From this mound can be distinguished mounds 12, 28, 34,
36, 37, 38, 39, 40, 41, 42, 43, 46, 47, 48, 49, 50, 76, stone grave 55, work-
shops 57, 58, 59, 61, 62, 63, cemeteries 64, 65. From off this mound an
enchanting scene is presented to the observer in whatever direction he
may choose to turn, with the exception of the west. No doubt this
would be as beautiful as that to the north, east, or south, were it not for
a dense woods that obstructs the view. You have not only a plain view
of the valley, but also of the uplands as far as the eye can reach to the
east. <A fire built upon this mound at any time and in any season of
the year, could be plainly seen at all the mounds, &c., specified in the
figures given above. We are justified, therefore, in terming this struct-
ure not only a burial mound but an observatory, or signal mound as
well.

Number 28 is in Sec. 5, T. 10 N., R. 2 W., on the highest terrace for-

PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. (3a

mation on Mr. Charles Snider’s farm, about 50 yards from the apex ofa
‘very prominent hill which is on the south side of Elie’s Creek, and back
from the river on its west side about 80 rods from the mouth of Elie’s
Creek. The highest is 43 feet, and the base diameter, 35 feet. From
the field in which this mound is located, and the one due west, many
finely made perforators, arrow-points, spear-points, celts, &c., have
been picked up from time to time. Mr. Milton Trusler and Mr. Elmer
Sheppard have in their cabinets some very beautiful specimens from
this locality. In the trenching no bones or ornaments of any descrip-
tion were recovered, but, as usual, the tumulus proved to be a stratified
mound, which also may be classified as a signal mound. From this and
only this one can be seen mounds 23, 24, 29, 30, 31, 32, 33.

Number 29 is in See. 5, T. 10 N., R. 2 W., in the southeast quarter of
the section, about the same distance from the east and north section
lines. It stands on the south side of Elie’s Creek and the west side of
the river, about 50 yards from the creek and river, on the second terrace
formation, on Mr. Chas. Snider’s farm. The height is 34 feet, the di-
ameter 22 feet. It is composed of sand overlaid with a thin stratum of
brick clay. Mr. Snider, in cultivating over this tuumulus has at several
times plowed up human bones, but they would crumble as quick as
exposed to the atmosphere. In trenching, the writer met with the same
trouble of crumbling to dust on exposure. So far as learned, no relics
have been found in this mound by any one. Several have dug into it,
thus marring the symmetry, and in the course of five or six years there
will be nothing left to mark its location, which is the case with a great
many of these ancient monuments along this valley.

Number 30 is in See. 24, in the southwest corner of the northeast
quarter section, T. 13 N., R. 13 E., on Dr. A. C. Fosdick’s farm, and on
the east side of a small creekthat empties into Elie’s Creek. It occu-
pies the highest terrace formation of Elie’s Creek. The height is8 feet
and the diameter at the base, 28 feet. This mound has a pit sunk in
the center about 5 feet square, concerning which nothing isknown. The
mound is composed of compact clay stratified.

Number 31 is in Sec. 14, T. 13 N., R. 13 E., Fayette County, in the
southwest corner of the northeast quarter section, on Mr. John Dun-
gan’s farm. It stands on the north side of the same creek as No. 30,
northwest of Mr. Dungan’s residence about 150 yards. .This mound is
74 feet high and 46 feet in base diameter. Jt has been partly explored
by some one who commenced a trench on the west side 5 feet wide, and
dug to the center of the mound. The sides of this trench reveal the
composition throughout. The mound stratified and composed of brick
clay. From the tield in which this mound is located several species of
aboriginal handiwork have been picked up.

Number 32 is in See. 14, T. 13 N., R. 13 E., in the northwest corner
of the northeast quarter, about 20 yards from the north section line and

75 yards from the west quarter-section line. It stands in the center of
H. Mis. 26-47
738 PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY.

a fine maple grove, on Mr. Asbury Henson’s farm. The height is 11

feet, and the base diameter 57 feet. This mound, like No. 30, has a pit ¥

sunk in the center. Fifty yards to the northwest of the mound isa
large circular pit, from which, no doubt, the material used in the con-
struction was taken. On the mound are three large maple trees, and
on mound 31 are two maple and a beech tree. The material is compact
clay.

Number 33 is in See. 25, T. 11 N., R. 2 W., in the southeast corner of
the north west quarter section, in Union County, northwest of Roseburgh
500 yards. It stands on the east side of Hannah’s Creek, about 400
yards distant, aud on second terrace formation, on Mr. Hayworth’s farm.
This mound is 15 feet high, with a base diameter of 65 feet, and is con-
sidered the largest mound in Union County. Riding over it with a
horse or pounding on the apex produces a hollow sound. The supposi-
tion among the villagers is that it is not solid. No doubt this is asepul-
chral mound.

Number 34 is in See. 3, T. 10 N., R.2 W., about midway, near the east
section line of the northeast quarter section, on the east side of Han-
nah’s Creek, and on the highest terrace formation. It is located on Mr.
Andy Sutton’s farm, northwest of Santaannahsburg a little over a
half mile, and on the west side of the road that runs from the burg
across to Hannah’s Creek, and 300 yards a little northwest of Mr. Sut-
ton’s residence. This mound is 144 feet in height, with base diameter
of 60 feet, unexplored.

Number 35 is in See. 33, T. 11 N., R. 2 W., in the southeast corner of
the northeast guarter-section, on the highest terrace formation of the
river, 40 rods from the east section line, and 75 or 80 yards from the
south quarter-section line. It is on the north side of the road and about
150 yards north of Mrs. Hughes’s residence, on Mr. Jas. Wilson’s farm.
The height is 4 feet, base diameter 38 feet; the material is brick clay.

Number 36 is in See. 34, T. 11 N., R. 2 W., on the line that divides the
northwest and southwest quarters, and 60 yards from the west section
line, on Mr. Israel Martin’s farm. It stands on the highest terrace for-
mation of the river, east of Mrs. Hughes’s residence about 100 yards.
The height is 4$ feet, and the base diameter 38 feet. This mound has
been trenched from the west side to the center, and Mr. Geo. Hughes,
who lives in close proximity, states that there have been taken from this
mound several nice copper and striped slate ornaments, and human
remains, in a very good state of preservation. Like a great many
others who destroy these ancient tumuli, however, merely to satisfy a
morbid curiosity, placing no value upon these old and partly decomposed
bones, “he threw aside” that which the student as well as the scien-
tist value as highly as the relics found with them. Thus it is, in every
community, a class of people exist, to place hinderances in the way
of investigators.

Number 37 is in Sec. 34, T. 11 N., R. 2 W., about half way between
PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. (39

the east and west quarter section lines of the northwest quarter, and 10
rods from north section line. It is located on the highest terrace for-
mation of the river, on Mrs. Lewis Hugh’s farm. Its height is 44 feet,
and base diameter 35 feet. It is unexplored.

Number 38 is in Sec. 3, T. 10 N., R. 2 W., in the northwest corner of
the northwest quarter, about equal distance from the north and west
section lines, on the highest terrace formation of Hannah’s Creek, and
on Mr. Jerry Sample’s farm. The height is 4 feet, and the base diam-
eter 28 feet. It is unexplored.

Number 39 is in Sec. 3, T.10 N., R. 2 W., in the southwest corner of the
northwest quarter, about equal distance from the west section line and
south quarter-section line. It standson a very prominent hill that juts
out to Hannah’s Creek, where it and Dubois Creek join. From this
mound can be distinguished Nos. 36, 37, 38, 40, 41, 27, 28, workshops
60; 625"

Number 40 is in Sec. 4, T. 10 N., R. 2 W., in the northeast corner of
the southeast quarter, about 10 rods from the east section line, and 12
rods from north line of the quarter, on the highest terrace formation of
both the river and Hannah’s Creek, and on Mrs. Scott’s farm. Unex-
plored.

Number 41 is in See. 9, T. 10 N., R. 2 W., in the northeast quarter of
the section, southwest of thé township school-house 508 yards, on Mr.
Alex. Johnson’s farm, and southeast of his residence 300 yards, on
the highest terrace formation of the river. The height is 5 feet, and
the base diameter 40 feet. From this mound can be distinguished Nos.
27, 28, 29, 38, 39, 40, 42, 43, workshop 60. Unexplored.

enter 42 is in See. 9, T. 10 N., R. 2 W., in the northeast corner of
the southeast quarter section, on the second terrace formation, and on
the south side of a small stream called Hollingsworth’s Creek. It
stands only a few rods east of Mr. Henry Master’s spring-house, also
southeast of his residence about 400 yards. The height is 44 feet, and
the base diameter 32 feet. It is composed of compact clay.

Number 43 is in See. 9, T. 10 N., R. 2 W., about midway between the
south section line and the north quarter section line, and in the south-
east quarter of the section, due south of residence about 500 yards, on
the same farm, and on the second terraced formation. This mound is
oblong, and is 3 feet high, its longest diameter being 42 feet, its shortest
20 feet. Mr. Enoch Hollingsworth, who owned this farm years ago, at
his leisure moments trenched it from east to west, and in doing so re-
moved several fragments of human bones, a few arrow-points, and one
stone ax, which were thrown aside as valueless.

Number 44 is in Sec. 24, T. 10 N., R. 2 W., in the northeast corner of
the northeast quarter section. The east section and township line
touches the base of the mound on the east side. It is south of the north
section line just 8 rods, and northwest of Mr. Thomas Flood’s residence
40 yards. This mound has been under cultivation annually for the past
740 PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY.

fifty years; therefore as to its original height there are no means of
judging. From this mound have been taken a fine pipe, several arrows,
spear-points, and ornamental stones, all of which were given to persons
who were making a study of these prehistoric relies.

Number 45 is a stone structure in Sec. 23, T. 10 N., R. 2 W., in the
northeast corner of the northwest quarter section, 10 rods south of the
north county line, 20 rods west of the east quarter-section line, on the
west side of asmall branch or creek that empties into the north branch
of Templeton’s Creek. This is the most peculiar stone structure in the
valley. The east half has been destroyed by the branch undermining
the bank, and letting it down about 6 feet to the bed of the creek. This
structure was examined very minutely. Judging from the remaining
half, and allowing both sides to have been equal in width and length,
we may form some idea of its character. The height of the wall
and altar is the same, measuring just 2 feet. It is an easy matter
to conjecture the use for which this peculiar structure was erected,
but a more difficult task to establish opinions as facts. There is an
altar surrounded by a wall. Whether this was a sacrificial altar or
one upon which had been erected an idol cannot be known. The
center is not raised above the surrounding walls. The stone covering
the top was once in one solid piece, but now broken, and was perfectly
smooth on its upper surface. It does not show any action of fire. Mr.
Joseph Miller, who first called attention to it, and others, could not
imagine for what purpose it was constructed. This was a great curi-
osity during the days when the noted Bath Springs were a resort of the
people from a distance as well as those of the surrounding country.
Crowds would visit this strueture and speculate upon its probable use
and constructors.*

Number 46 is in See. 15, T. 10 N., R. 2 W., in the southeast corner of
the southeast quarter section, 4 rods from the south section and county
line that separates Franklin and Union Counties, 8 rods from east sec-
tion line. It stands on the south side of Bath Creek, 40 feet from the
bank, at the foot of a small hill in the woods, on the third terrace forma-
tion of the river, and on Mr. Noah Newkirk’s farm. On the north side
and also on the east side, about midway of the apex and base, are grow-
ing two large beech trees. Mound, height, 34 feet; base, diameter, 30
feet; composition, compact clay.

Number 47 is in See. 22, T. 10 N., R. 2 W., in the northeast part of
the northeast quarter section, on the south side of Bath Creek, and on
third terrace formation of the river, located on Mr. Amos Cary’s farm.
The height is 5 feet; base diameter, 35 feet ; composition, compact clay.

* Since the above was written Mr. Joseph Miller states that during the freshets of
June 13, 1882, the creek, near whose bank it was situated, overflowed. The current,
being swift and destructive, completely destroyed the remaining part of the structure
by undermining the bank and tumbling the whole into the creek. Thus it is, one by
one, these old remains are becoming removed.

PAPERS RELATING TO ANTIIROPOLOGY. T41

Number 48 is in See. 22, T. 10 N., R. 2 W., in the southwest part of
the northeast quarter section, on the south side of Bath Creek. It oc-
cupies the highest terrace formation of the river, about midway between
the creek and the road to the south that leads from Fairfield to Colter’s
Corner and Oxford. It is located on Mr. Amos Cary’s farm. The height
was originally 6 feet and base diameter 40 feet. This mound has been
under cultivation for the past half century. The author remembers
very distinctly going twenty-two years ago, in company witha cousin, and
gathering pockets and hats full of fine arrow-points and spear-points
from this mound, carrying them to the house, after which they amused
themselves by striking them together to see the sparks fly. Even recently
have been secured fine specimens of arrow-points, spear-heads, two or
three very good axes, several fine celts, and three discoidal stones, the
largest weighing eight pounds and six ounces. In digging from west
to east a trench 6 feet wide, nothing was found in the shape of orna-
ments or domestic implements, but a stratum of ashes, coal, and burnt
clay.

Number 49 is in Sec. 16, 1.10 N., R. 2 W., in the southeast quar-
ter section, about midway between the north quarter and south
section and county lines. It is 10 rods from east section lines, on the
third terrace formation, on Mr. John Sim’s farm. This is an oblong
mound, height, 34 feet; longest base diameter, 40 feet; shortest, 20 feet;
composition, compact clay. From this mound can be distinguished Nos.
20, 25, 26, 27, 28, 53.

Number 50 is in Sec. 27, T. 10 N., R. 2 W., in the northeast part
of the northeast quarter section, about 20 rods from the north section
line, the same distance from the road on the south of the mound, and
northeast of Mr. C. Master’s residence, on whose farm it is located. It
lies soutii of a small stream called Blue Lick, which empties into Bath
Creek, and is in the woods about 60 rods from the creek. The height
is 5 feet 9 inches; base diameter, 25 feet; composition, burnt clay, coal,
and ashes. On the north side of the mound isa large beech tree, whose
roots permeate the mound. This tumulus, in construction, is similar
to No. 12 in being a protected mound. No. 12 is covered with flat
shelly limestone ; this, with cobble-stones. The strata are five in num-
ber, the protecting rock, or cobble-stone covering, varying from 5 to 12
inches in thickness. The stones were laid symmetrically from base to
apex, and were all calcined; the silex and quartz by the confined heat
had become vitrified. This was accomplished by overlaying the rock
covering with a heavy deposit of compact clay, thereby confining the
heat; but the most difficult problem is how the savages accomplished
the feat of arranging these bowlders so evenly while such an intense fire
was burning. What was the object in thus protecting such a moundis
difficult to say, unless it was for the cremation of the dead. Uponsink-
ing a shaft in the center below the level of the mound, or in digging a
trench 6 feet wide from the west to the east side, not a fragment of bone,
742 PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY.

pottery, or any implement appeared. It was simply a pile of calcined
rock, intensely burnt clay, ashes, and coal. Judging from the vast
amount of broken arrow-points, spear-points, and celts, in the field near
mound 51, a terrific conflict must have raged upon this spot, and it may
be that the conquerors heaped up their dead or those of their enemies
and cremated them upon the spot where this mound of ashes, coal, and
calcined rock now stands. It was not used asa signal mound, for sev-
eral reasons: First the builders would not have expended their labor
in gathering these cobble-stone and protecting it as they have done for
such a purpose. Second, the location is not suitable, for all signal sta-
tions or mounds are located on the most prominent points, clear of all
obstructions. Nor is it a kitchen mound, there being no fragments of
bone, pottery, &c. Therefore this must have been a funeral pyre.

Number 51 is in See. 27, T. 10 N., R. 2 W., in the northwest corner of
the northeast quarter section, on the highest terrace formation, about 6
rods from west section line and almost due west of number 50. It lies a
little northeast of Mr. Jon. Hugh’s residence, on whose farm it is located.
This mound has been under cultivation for the past half century. Under
the turning process of the plow and scraping and dragging of the
harrow during all this time, one finds it impossible to form any idea of
its original height. At the present time this one is 2 feet 10 inches
high. From the field in which this mound is located a great many
arrow-points, pestles, axes, bark-pealers, scrapers, etc., have been picked
up from time to time, of which a great majority were broken.

Number 52 is in See. 27, T. 10 N., R. 2 W., in the northwest part of
the southeast quarter section, on the highest terrace formation, due
south of number 51, near the woods, on Mr. Jon. Hugh’s farm. The
height is 44 feet; base diameter, 35 feet; composition, compact clay.

Number 53 is in Sec. 20, T. 10 N., R. 2 W., in the northwest part of
the northwest quarter section, near the head of a stream called Herralls’
Branch, on the highest terrace formation, due north of Mrs. Hayworth’s
residence, on whose farm it is located. The height is 4 feet; base
diameter, 25 feet, and composition, compact clay.

Number 76 is in Sec. 27, T. 10 N., R. 2 W., in the northeast corner of
the southwest quarter section, on the highest terrace formation, and on
Mr. A. C. Carter’s farm. The height is 3 feet; the base diameter, 20
feet, and composition, compact clay.

Number 77 is in See. 23, T. 10 N., R. 2 W., in the southwest corner of
the southwest quarter section, on the highest terrace formation, on Mr.
R. Wortman’s farm, at the head of a small stream called Blue Lick,
which empties into Bath Creek. The mound is on the east side and
almost due south of the old log cabin that still stands on the south side
of thefarm. The height is 44 feet; base diameter, 28 feet; and composi-
tion, compact clay.

Number 78 is in Sec. 28, T. 11 N., R. 2 W., about the center of the
southwest quarter section, on the second terrace formation. It stands
PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 743

a little northwest of Quakertown, on the east side of Bond’s Creek, about
80 yards distant. The present height is 3 feet, and base diameter, 60 feet.
Mr. Hugh Abernathy, among the first settlers of this valley, states that,
sixty years ago, this mound was about 18 feet high, and made of fine
sand, which the older citizens of Quakertown and Dunlapsville hauled
away for building purposes. The remaining portion does not look like
the remnant of a mound.

Number 79 is in See. 31, T. 14 N., R. 14 E., in the northeast corner of
the northwest quarter secon, on #he third terrace formation, on Mr.
Hugh Abernathy’sfarm. The height is 8 feet; base diameter, 45 feet,
and composition, compact clay.

Number 80 is in See. 2, T. 11 N., R. 2 W., in the northwest part of the
northeast quarter section, on the highest terrace formation, on the Lev-
iston farm. It stands about half way between the Junction Railroad
and Liberty and Brownsville pike, and about 4 rods from a never-failing
spring, which is a little northwest of the mound. The mound has been
under cultivation for a great many years, which has greatly diminished
it in height.

Number 84 is in See. 5, T. 11 N., R. 2 W., in the northwest part of
the southeast quarter section, and on the second terrace formation of
Hannah’s Creek, cn Mr. Henry Ruse’sfarm. The height is 6 feet; base
diameter, 42 feet; composition, compact clay.

The fragments of pottery which have been found in the exploration
of the several meunds that are distributed along this valley (no com-
plete vessels have been recovered) are composed of potter’s clay, sand,
and .pounded shell. In the process of burning, a portion of the sand
became vitrified and the shell calcined. By the aid of the microscope
it was possible to find out the composition of each fragment, yet these
would crumble with the least handling. The mysterious people who
constructed these mounds must have exercised a great deal of care in
removing the larger pebbles from the dirt, since those composed of clay
or sand show a very few pebbles as large as a good sized marble. This
fact has been often verified by the author, who ordered his helpers to
notice critically every particle of dirt handled in the process of trench-
ing or sinking a pit. Mounds from 20 to 60 feet in diameter have been
trenched without finding as many as a dozen pebbles. It is not for the
want of pebbles in the surface soil, for they are plentiful and can be
gathered by the bushel. It is not that the material has been brought
from a distance. Ninety-nine of every hundred mounds are heaped up
from the surrounding soil, and seasons of rain-fall, freezing and thaw-
ing, growth and decay have filled up these places, so that the surround-
ing surface presents the appearance of never having been disturbed.
How much higher these tumuli were originally we have no means of
knowing; the same changes will diminish the height of these monu-
ments with each succeeding year.

Number 54 is a group of stone graves in Sec. 10, T. oN 5 tert VV un
744 PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY.

the northwest corner, near the north section line of the northwest
quarter section, on the third terrace formation of the river. It is situ-
ated north of a small stream that runs through Mr. James Logan’s farm.
Mr. James Rucker, incompany with Mr. Logan, some years ago, excavated
them, but in doing so only found a few fragments of decayed bones.
Mr. Logan also states that the field in which these graves are located
was formerly covered with arrow-points, but the process of plowing,
rolling, and harrowing has broken them into fragments; yet a great
many are still picked up by the children from time to time.

Number 55 is also a stone grave in Sec, 16, T. 10 N., R. 2 W., about
midway between the north section line and thesouth quarter-section line,
and in the northeast quarter section. It stands about 4 rods from the
east section line, on the brow of a very high hill that is covered by heavy
timber. In digging into this grave a few fragments of bone were found,
a portion of the humerus, ulna, radius, and femur, the outer plates of
the cranium, which was as thin as paper, the inner being entirely de-
cayed. .

Number 64 is a cemetery in part Sec. 29, T. 11 N., R. 2 W., on the
highest terrace formation, and on a prominent ridge that projects out
to Bond’s Creek, on the west side, on Mr. Jackson Leeche’s farm.
Five years ago, in the neighborhood in which this cemetery is located, the
road supervisor, in his search for gravel, by chance stumbled upon the
. point of this ridge, which he commenced to remove. After digging and
caving down the ridge about 8 feet from the point of commencement,
the workmen came upon and removed four skeletons with a few stone-
axes, one of which, 8 pounds in weight, is in the author’s cabinet, and one
of about the same weight is in the cabinet of the Natural Historical So-
ciety of Cincinnati. At that time also a few celts were found with these
skeletons. A great portion of the skeletons crumbled to pieces upon
exposure to the air. One cranium was nicely put together by Mr. Stan-
ton, who has it yet in his cabinet. The depth of the interment was 7
feet.

Number 65 is a cemetery in Sec. 4, T. 9 N., R. 2 W., in the southwest
corner of the southeast quarter section, on a ridge that projects out
to a small stream which empties into the river. It is situated on
the east side of the river, on the second terrace, a little southeast of
the river bridge, on Mrs. K. Templeton’s farm. Over it has grown a
small forest, which obscured the fact that it was a resting-place of the
dead. There are only four places within a range of 11 miles—these
two cemeteries and the stone graves—where the dead were buried in
this manner.

Number 56 is an open-air workshop in See. 3, T. 9 N., R. 2 W., in the
southeast corner of the southwest quarter section, on the second terrace

formation of the river, in a field on the north side, through which runs _

a small stream fed by numerous fine springs. This workshop is but a
short distance southwest of the group of stone graves.

|
)
.
;

PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 745

Number 57 is an open-air workshop in Sec. 4, T. 9 N., R. 2 W., near
the southeast corner of the northwest quarter section, on Mr. George
Templeton’s farm. It is situated on the second terrace formation of the
river, south of Templeton’s Creek about 300 yards, and 150 yards south
of his residence. The gentleman states that he has found a great many
axes, pestles, celts, and arrow-points on this piece of land, and from a
spot about 200 feet square has hauled at least sixty wagon-loads of
chipped and unchipped cobble-stones, and yet as many loads remain.
Mr. Templeton has in his possession an ax taken from this shop, the
most perfect one the writer has examined.

Number 58 is a workshop in Sec. 12, T. 10 N., R. 2 W., in the north-
east corner of the southwest quarter section, on the second terrace forma-
tion, and in Mr. Charles B. Hayward’s farm. It standsalmost opposite the
noted Glidwell mound, and on the west side of the river, in plain view
of No. 57. To the northwest of the field in which this shop is located are
several never-failing springs, whose water forms quite a stream, which
flows along the north side and empties into the river. Here can be
found a vast amount of chert chips, chert balls, broken and chipped cob-
ble-stones, and broken arrow-points. The implements that predominate
are the scrapers, axes, sinkers, hammer or chipping-stones. A few or-
namental pieces have been found. The author has gathered and re-
ceived from Mr. Hayward at least a bushel of relics, And every year
when this spot of ground is turned over hundreds are picked up by the
owner and given away, yet, from among the vast number, not one pure
flint-point has been found.

Number 59 is a workshop in Sec. 17, T. 10 N., R. 2 W., in the south-
east part of the northeast quarter section, on the second terrace for-
mation of the river, on Mr: James Herrall’s farm, a little east of north
from his residence, and close to the road, on the east side of the field in
which it is located. East of the field is a fine spring of water, and near
by in the field is the workshop, about 300 feet square. Here were manu-
factured the ornamental or ceremonial pieces, for every year that this
spot is cultivated several implements are picked up in an unfinished or
finished state. Some are only chipped into form, some chipped, pecked,
and partly ground; others completed, with the exception of drilling,
which in some cases is commenced ; others are entirely finished. A few
celts and chipping-stones have been found, but they do not seem to be
very numerous.

Number 60 is a workshop in See. 9, T.11 N., R.2 W., on the south-
west corner of the northwest quarter section, on the second terrace for-
mation of the river, and on Mr. Alexander Johnston’s farm. The spot
covers about 4 or 5 acres, constituting the area of the plateau over
which the work was prosecuted. The articles of manufacture were
axes, celts, and pestles. From this spot have been gathered quite
a number of these domestic implements, with a few ornaments, by Mr.
Theodore Campbell, S. Conrad, H. Brown, James Mills, and others. Quite
746 PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY.

a number of large axes, weighing from 10 to 16 pounds, have been found
here. Mr. James Rucker has one in his cabinet with about 4 inches of
the bit broken off, found by Mr. Henry Brown, that weighs, as itis, 124
pounds. No doubt before it was broken it would have weighed 16
pounds. The author has one in his cabinet, made of striped slate,
plowed up on the 26th day of August, that weighs 10 pounds. Mr.
Theodore Campbell gave the author a mortar that holds very near a half
gallon, the finest specimen of the kind he has ever seen. It was plowed
up in 1848, by Mr. Taylor, ‘a former owner of this farm,” who at that
time picked the date on the bottom of it. Very few arrow-points are
found on this farm or those joining it on the north, east, or south.
Through the field in which this shop is located an old Indian trail
passes to an Indian camping-ground due west, about 200 yards.
Some of the older inhabitants of this and that neighborhood still
recollect some of the incidents that transpired at this camp while
the aborigines yet roamed at will up and down this valley.

Number 61 is a workshop in part, Sec. 29, T. 12 N., R. 2 W., on the
second terrace formation of the river, and on Mr. Levi Bond’s farm,
just north of his residence, about 300 yards. It is about 500 yards
northwest of Quakertown, on the north side of the road that leads from
Quakertown to Alquina; also on the west side of Bond’s Creek. A lit-
tle to the south is an excellent spring of pure water running the whole
year round. A little northeast of this shop was the once great sand
mound spoken of. The articles of manufacture of this shop were the ax,
pestle, celt, and hammer-stone. This was one of the most productive
shops along the valley. There has been gathered here, from time to
time, at least a balf wagon load of domestic implements, and yet every
year that this field is cultivated Mr. Bond or his sons pick up about two
dozen implements. Almost every cabinet in this section and that of
the State museum contains typical specimens taken from this notorious
workshop which covers about 24 acres. This space is covered with a
mass of chipped and broken stones ; but to my knowledge or that of Mr.
Bond’s, no ornamental piece has yet been found within the field in which
these remains are located. Northwest of this, a quarter of a mile, is a
cemetery which will be mentioned further on.

Number 62 is a workshop in Sec. 4, T. 11 N., R. 2 W., in the north-
west part of the southeast quarter section, on the second terrace forma-
tion of the river, and on Mrs. E. Scott’s farm. It stands northeast of her
residence and on the north side of Hannah’s Creek. The articles of
manufacture have been pestles and celts, those implements predomi-
nating. But very few axes have been found here. The area of this
shop is about 1 or 14 acres. A vast amount of broken cobble-stone
covers the spot. Very little of the striped slate-stone is found here.
No ornaments or fragments thereof has ever been discovered on this
piece of land, arrow-points also be.:ng very few in number. Occasion-
ally one is picked up in the spring or fall of the year, when plowing is
going on.

PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 747

Number 63 is a workshop in See. 21, T. 12 N., R. 2 W., in the north-
west corner of the southeast quarter section, on the second terrace
formation of the river, and on Mr. Harrison Erb’s farm. It stands on
the west side of the river, also on the west side of the road that leads
from Dunlapsville to Brownsville. <A little northeast of this work-
shop is an excellent spring, which has never been known by the oldest
settler to fail in supplying an abundance of water. The articles
of manufacture at this shop were axes, pestles, celts, and hammer-
stones, or, aS some would wish to classify them, sinkers. From this
shop, which covers an area of about 2 acres, quite a goodly number of
these domestic implements have been taken. Only two or three orna-
mental pieces have been found here, and those were broken or unfin-
ished. A great many of the domestic implements have also been found
in this condition.

Number 66 is a workshop in Sec. 36, T. 13 N., R. 13 E., in the north.
west part of the southwest quarter section, on the highest terrace for-
mation, on Mr. Jacob Master’s farm, a little northwest of the residence
and on the north side of Bloyd’s Creek. To the south of this shop is a
fine spring of water. The predominant articles of manufacture were
arrow-points, scrapers, and drills. Seldom an ax, celt, or pestle is found
here, but a great many arrows, with which the several local collectors
have enriched their cabinets. They are principally made of chert; occa-
sionally a specimen of chalcedony or of flint occurs.

Number 82 is a workshop in Sec. 20, T. 10 N., R. 2 W., inthe south-
west part of the northwest quarter section, on the highest terrace forma-
tion, and on Mrs. Agnes Miller’s farm, north of her residence about 100
yards. To the south of this shop is a fine spring of water. Articles
of manufacture are arrows, Spear-points, and scrapers. The area of the
shop is about one-half acre, which is thickly covered with fragments
of chert. A great many fine arrow-points have been found here by Mrs.
S. B. Johnston’s sons, who make a business of collecting these relics and
selling them to the several local collectors.

Number 83 is a workshop in Sec. 27, T. 13 N., R. 13 E., in the
southwest part of the southeast quarter section, on the highest terrace
formation, on Mr. Jacob Meyer’s farm, northwest of his residence about
75 yards. Hast of the shop about 100 yards is a good spring. of water,
which flows directly along the south side of the field in which the shop
is located. Articles of manufacture are arrow and spear points, al-
though a few fragments of ornaments have been found and two“ anvils.”
The area covered by the shop is 14 acres. Here we find the ground cov-
ered with chips of chert, with occasionally a few fragments of flint and chal-
cedony. ‘This shop has also furnished several local collectors with a fine
assortment-of arrow-points. So far, not a single ax, celt, or pestle has
been found on this shop or even on the farm.

Number 85 is a workshop in See. 10, T. 12 N., R. 13 E., in the north-
ern part of the southeast quarter section, on the highest terrace forma-
748 PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY.

tion, and on Mr. Jon. Webb’s farm. Articles of manufacture are axes,
celts, arrow and spear points. Here a profusion of articles have been
found, along with some fragments of ornaments. Mr. Webb and his
sons, in the process of tilling this field, have secured a vast amount of the
arrow-points, some of them very finespécimens. The shop coversabout
2 acres of ground. In the writer's cabinet is a sledge which Mr. E.
Webb gave him in the spring of 1880, turned over in the process of plow-
ing. This sledge weighs 223 pounds; the groove being complete, also
the pole, the bit being chipped and pecked down ready for grinding.
This is an excellent specimen. Every year when tilling the field in
which this shop is located the owners secure a goodly number of relics.
In the adjoining field on the north the oldest settlers say there was
an Indian camping-ground, and the trail passed through the northeast
corner portion of the field in which this shop is located.

The old block-houses which were erected along the valley some sev-
enty-five years ago have nearly all been removed, and the spot where
they once stood will soon be unknown. The old settlers are passing
away rapidly, and they alone retain their history. Here in this valley
they settled down in 1803 and 1804, in somewhat compact colonies, and
erected these forts for preservation in time of danger from the then
savages. Ofthese but two remain, one on Mr. William McClure’s farm,
a little northeast of Brookville, No. 89; the other on Mr. Jon. Power’s
farm, No. 81. This was weather-boarded and converted into a dwelling,
and has been occupied as such up to the present time, but the owner
contemplates its removal. Thus the last one of these forts whose rude
walls had protected our first inhabitants from the deadly arrows of the
red men will be gone to give place to a more commodious dwelling

Block-house No. 67 is in Sec. 28, T. 12 N., R. 2 W., and in the south-
east corner of the northwest quarter section, on the east side of the
village of Dunlapsville. This block-house was erected by Mr. William
Nickles in 1806.

Block-house No. 68 is in See. 30, T. 14 N., R. 14 I., in the southwest
corner of the northeast quarter section, and just opposite the mouth
of Richland Creek. It was erected in 1805.

Block-house No. 81 is in See. 33, T. 10 N., R. 2 W., in the southwest
corner of the southwest quarter section, erected by Obadiah Eustes, in
1804.

Block-house No. 87 is in Sec. 21, T. 9 N., R. 2 W., near the southwest
corner of the northwest quarter section.

Camping-grounds and trails have been laid down on the map and
sectional drawings as correctly as it were possible. To accomplish this
has been quite a task and involved writing to a great many who are
acquainted with facts, who do not now reside within the county. The
greater portion of the knowledge thus gained was from the oldest in-
habitants who were born and raisedin this community.

No. 69 is in See. 31, T. 10 N., R. 1 W., in the southwest corner of the
southwest quarter section.

PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 749

_ No. 70 is in See. 33, T. 10 N., R. 2 W., in the northwest corner of the

southwest quarter section.

No. 71 is in Sec. 10, T. 12 N., R. 13 E., near the southwest corner of
the northeast quarter section.

No. 72 isin Sec. 36, T. 13 N., R. 13 E., very near center of the sec-
tion.

No. 73 is in See. 8, T. 11 N., R. 2 W., southeast corner of the north-
east quarter section.

No. 74 is in Sec. 11, T. 11 N., R. 2 W., in the northeast corner of the
southwest quarter section.

No. 75 is in Sec. 7, T, 14 N., R. 14 E., in the southwest corner of the ‘
southwest quarter section.

No. 86 is in See. 34, T. 13 N., R. 13 E., midway between the east and
west quarter-section lines, and near the north line of the northeast
quarter section.

OPEN-AIR WORKSHOPS.

These shops are discovered in the valleys under the uplands by evi.
dences as positive as those of the mounds and earthworks, and perhaps
more so than those of the mounds, from the fact that a great many per-
sons are misled in regard to these elevations, ever ready to call any sym-
metrical hillock amound. Only asection will disclose the truth as to their
natural or artificial formation. Not so in regard to these ancient work-
shops. If by chance one should, while passing over a field or piece of
ground, come upon a vast amount of broken cobble-stones or chert, un-
able to find hardly one intact, he naturally would conclude that here
some kind of industry had been carried on. A true knowledge of that
branch of industry would be found out by any inquiring mind. If
among these spalls or fragments we find an ax, celt, or pestle, and upon
due inquiry of the owner or tenants ascertain that he at different
times had gathered several of these different implements there we could
surely say, this is a workshop where were manufactured only this pecu-
liar class of implements. Wherever these fragments are found there is
no difficulty in classifying the style of implement which were manufac-
tured, whether they be the ax, celt, pestle, hammer, arrow, or ornament;
the superabundance of each article tells the story. Sometimes we find
a variety of implements, such as the ax, celt, arrow-points, &c. In such
instances there will be found a conglomeration of fragments. Butsuch is
seldom the case, and only one shop of this character is known along
this valley; this is No. 59, in Sec. 17, T. 11 N., R. 2 W. Here are
found the warlike and domestic implements in conjunction with orna-
ments, all of which have been found in goodly numbers in their finished
and unfinished state ; some chipped into form, others chipped and partly
pecked ; others again showing three stages of advancement, chipped,
partly pecked, and partly ground or polished. Such isnot only the case
with the ornamental finds, but also the axes and celts show the same
750 PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY

stages of advancement. These workshops, as a general rule, are located
on the second terrace formation along the river or the larger streams
that empty into the river, and in close proximity with each shop is an
excellent spring of water. Also in close proximity will be found a sig-
nal mound or station, located on the highest hill or bluff along the river.
Mound 12 commands an excellent view of Nos. 56, 57, and 58; mound
25 that of No. 59; mound 27 that of shop 60; mound 41, thatof 62; mound
79, that of 63; mound 21, that of 85; and so on, through the whole val-
ley. ’Tis true these signal mounds in some instances have been con-
verted or adopted as burial mound, probably after their abandonment
as signal stations. We are better able after trenching these struct-
ures through the center to determine their true character and probable
use. Until this is done our theories are premature, for only a true sec-
tion of their formation can establish the facts as to whether they are
signal mounds or burial mounds or both. In signal mounds there is only
one spot, and that in the center, that shows the action of fire,and when
it has served its purpose it is built up in a cone shape and abandoned.
In case it is converted into a burial mound the fire has been extin-
guished, the surface leveled, the dead deposited, and again another
layer of clay or whatever material is used in its construction is sym-
metrically laid over the dead to the depth of 6 to 18 inches. Over the
whole surface a fire once more is started, the object being to burn the
clay or harden it, so that the water will not permeate it so readily as it
does the unburnt clay. In doing this there is no fear of destroying the
objects deposited below. Sometimes where a limb has not been sufii-
ciently covered it has been charred, which accounts for that part of the
subject we oftentimes find in these tumuli that are mutilated and at-
tributed to cremation. The moisture that is contained in the body pre-
serves the bones of these subjects from the intrinsic action of the fire.

In studying the reports of the’survey of mounds in certain portions of
thecountry,by those who have classified them as signal and burial mounds,
the question often presents itself, by what criteria are they asserted to
have been signal stations or otherwise? The writer has followed in
their footsteps heretofore in his classification, description, surveys, &c.
In the present paper the theory of their past usage is based on the ap-
pearance of their strata, after a perfect section of the mound is made,
not from the strata shown in sinking a shaft in the center, for, perhaps,
these strata may extend to within 6 inches of the outer edge of the
structure or tumulus, and perhaps they may not; hence the advisability
of a perfect section of the works so as to enable one to classify them cor-
rectly. This has been done in this present report as far as it was possible
to superintend the work. These signal and burial mounds develop the
fact that their builders looked to the safety of the living and to
the preservation of their dead, and adopted the most rational means
at that time, taking into consideration their surroundings and facili-
ties. They could not, with all their shrewdness, have hit upon a more

PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. (SE

preservative mode—the ashes and coal for the bed of the sleepers, and
the hard burnt clay as their covering. Under such circumstances it re-
quired years for these bodies to molder away. Perhaps where these
mounds stand forests have grown up, fallen, and decayed to give place
to other species, and yet a goodly portion of the skeletons are exhumed
from these tumuli in a good state of preservation. The people who once
occupied this land have had their turn, and in the most joyous career
of their vanity and splendor their strength failed, and they have again
returned to dust. Therefore the whole world is but a sepulcher, and
there has nothing lived on its surface but has been entombed beneath
it. The mounds and obscure cemeteries all over the world are full of
this loathsome dust of bodies once quickened by living souls, who per-
haps occupied thrones, presided over assemblies, marshaled armies, and
subdued provinces.

Mounds surrounded by circular walls are scattered along the valley
and on the hill-tops that command a view of the greatest territory ;
those in the valley generally stand on the second terrace formation,
near the greatest prominence. Why are the circular walls thus built? Is
it to mark the peculiar purpose for which they were constructed, as
signal, crematory, or sacrificial. Perhaps these walls were built to serve
the purpose to which have been attributed the smaller circular works
without any center elevation. All the lesser works of this character
were probably constructed for the same purpose as mentioned hereto-
fore. They are the remains of a primeval wigwam, it may have been of
a religious character, or one in which the royal chief and family dwelt.
Exploration does not develop anything positive. It is seldom that any
fragment of bone is found. When such is the case it is of an animal,
but the species cannot be determined. Generally fragments of pottery
are found throughout the work, but domestic implements are seldom
found. Ifsuch be the case it will be only a fragment. Another notice-
able feature is that these structures contain no ornamental or ceremonial
stones. If one is allowed to judge from the material that is found
within them, of a domestic character, they would be classed as kitchen
mounds, containing more fragments of plain domestic pottery than any-
thing else. They cannot be works of defense, for they are too small,
measuring only 40 to 80 feet in diameter. These circular works were
simply the protection walls of a wigwam or temple, perhaps of religious
character. Nothing can be more obvious than that they were built in
accordance with a general plan and for a specific purpose. When, how-
ever, a conclusion is sustained by analogies of a most striking charac-
ter, it is invested with double value. It is then that we proceed with
some degree of confidence to inquire how far we are justified in suppos-
ing that these ancient structures were temples of worship, or palaces for
the chief ruler. It is true, we have neither the light of tradition nor
that of history to guide us in our inquiries. Even the name of the
people by whom these works were constructed is lost. Therefore every
152 PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY.

attempt to draw aside the curtain that separates myth from truth may
fail, but if this investigation is but partially successful in casting a ray
of light upon these mystical structures, the labor will not have been in
vain.

SIGNAL MOUNDS OF BUTLER COUNTY, OHIO.
By J. P. MACLEAN, of Hamilton, Ohio.

The great mound of the valley of the Great Miami River is situated
on one of the highest hills in its immediate vicinity, and located about
three-quarters of a mile southeast of the town of Miamisburgh, Mont-
gomery County, Ohio, and about the same distance east of the Miami
River. The hill is composed of limestone representing the geological
formation known as the Hudson River epoch. Broken limestone crops
out on the surface, and the soil is very thin, not adapted to agricultural
purposes. The hill from the north and west is steep and may be said to
be difficult of ascent. The surface of the country for a considerable dis-
tance to the east and south is very much broken. The mound is on the
summit of the hill and on a natural knoll of a very noticeable declivity.
The sides or various slopes of this knoll appear to be regular and of
equal descent, or rather rising evenly from all directions. On the east
side of the mound and penetrating it is an excavation walled with stone
and probably used as a milk house. Twoor three rods farther removed
is a farm-house, while the same distance to the northeast is abarn. The
mound is 68 feet in perpendicular height, and 852 in circumference at
its base, and contains 311,353 cubic feet. The summit is level, circular
in form, with a diameter of about 20 feet. It is said that from this point
a view may be seen extending for 20 miles up the valley and the same
distance down the river. The day I visited it was cloudy and rainy, caus-
ing the view to be limited, although one of the grandest sights within
the State presented itself to my eyes. Some of the hills of Butler
County, upon which I knew were located mounds, were before me.

The summit of the mound overlooks some of the most important in-
closures of the valley. Looking north a distance of 3 miles are the in-
complete works at Alexandersville, figured and described in “Ancient
Monuments of the Mississippi Valley,” p. 82.

In a southwest direction and 5 miles distant from the mound is the |
Fort on Big Twin located on Sec. 3, German Township, Montgomery
County, described in my work on ‘‘ The Mound-builders,” p. 25. An en-
larged plan of the work is given.

Nine miles northeast of the last-named fort, and 1$ miles south by
west of Farmersville, situated Gn Big Twin Creek, is another inclosure
containing two irregular circles, with still another at the north gateway.
The work is situated on a spur of land about 100 feet above the creek
with a perpendicular declivity. Toward the north the hill slopes and the

153

PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY.

bss

Dun yy"70 LS

My ye

aNTOW WviTD
ayy mous of
BAUSNAOT
TIWVIM be? NINN Y Ua
wien penoquom
HaATa INVIAD LVAND

ee a

x! SONA OL

ail

st

tap

§

48

H. Mis. 26
Me
POLOG
NTHRO

S RELATING TO A

PAPER

154

WO

|
AS 4

PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 755

i

jj Hirer
“i,

q - a
aan
aw we i io :
ADE | j |
) ; i 7 | |
eat FA # :
Yl/ ? Q |
Wig a

N

acy
\ = MZ
hi z id SS A
| a TTIXMNSS aE
\\
B 2

SY

ee)

yy

756 PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY.

line of embankment is carried down the slope. The entrance-ways are
at the east and west sides, the inclosure at these points being covered
by a double line of embankment more formidable than at other points.
The circles have no gateways. A short distance east by south are the

Et oo se
| ie au Hu

ne js)

Shep
Swe <=

I ‘a\ a A
ead cae r
OR sy: : K
remains of what purports to have been a very large mound. The alti-
tude of the mound as it now stands is 20 feet. The creek encroached
upon the bank and gradually undermined the mound, taking away not
less than three-fourths of it. The creek then receded to its present
bed, distant about 20 rods.

157

PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY.
On the same creek, in Lanier Township, Preble County, was once the
work deseribed and figured in ‘‘ Ancient Monuments.”*
Five miles south of the great mound is the large mound near Frank-
lin, in Warren County. This mound is about 35 feet high, located on

M’O,

is)
RQ
©
z

cS
ati AR
RZ

one of the high hills bordering the east bank of the river, and removed
a distance of about three-fourths of a mile from it.
The best view of the Miamisburgh mound seen from any of the Butler
County mounds, is that given from the summit of the mound on See. 32,

* Ancient Monuments of the Mississippi Valley, p. 33 (Plate XII, No. 2).
758 PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY.

Madison Township. In the same township, Sec. 19, is the highest
mound in the county, with an altitude of 43 feet. A fire on the Miamis-
burgh mound would be distinctly seen from the summit of this mound.
While this mound is not situated on the highest hill in the county, yet
its situation is seen to be better adapted for the purpose of a signal
station than any other spot, when the various earthworks it was in-
tended to protect are taken into consideration. All the signal mounds
radiate from this one. It is located on a hill rising 400 feet above the
Miami. It overlooks the inclosure on Sec. 14, Wayne Township. A
fire on its summit could be seen from the mounds on See. 26, Wayne
Township; Sees. 9 and 16, Saint Clair, and Sec. 22, Fairfield; also from
the inclosure situated on Sec. 16, Fairfield. The three mounds on Sec.
9, Saint Clair, overlook the inclosure last named, also the one on Secs.
4, 5, 8, 9, Saint Clair; the one on Sec. 30, Wayne, and that near Somer-
ville (Sees. 3, 4, 9, 10), Milford. A light on the same three mounds
(See. 9, Saint Clair) could be seen from the mound on See. 31, Milford,
which overlooks the inclosure on Sec. 36, Oxford Township.

The mound on Sec. 20, Liberty Township, could be signaled from the
Madison, Saint Clair, or Fairfield mounds. From that point communi-
cation could be had with the mound on Sec. 24, Union Township, thence
to the mound on Sec. 14. The last named overlooks the inclosures on
Secs. 14 and 8, Union.

Communication is established between the mounds on Sees. 16 and
19, Saint Clair, and from the latter to Sec. 12, Ross, located within a
few rods of Fortified Hill Fort. This fort commands a view of the earth-
works on Secs. 16, 10, 15, and 8, Fairfield, as well as Sec. 13, Ross.

A light on the mound in See. 12, Ross, would be seen from the mound
in Sec. 21, and this by those in Sec. 30, Hanover, and 24, Reily, while
one in the last named mound would be visible from that on Sec. 22,
which overlooks the works just above the village of Reily.

The mound on See. 21, Ross, overlooks the mound and fort on Sec. 8,
Fairfield, also the Cobrain works in Hamilton County, and the circular
works on Secs. 27 and 34, Ross.

Un Sec. 9, Union Township, and Sec. 15, Fairfield, were a series of
works overlooked by a mound on last-named section. A communication
could be had with this mound from several mounds on the west bank of
the river, notably such as the mounds on Sec. 12, Ross, and 3 and 16,
Saint Clair.

PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 159

REMAINS ON BLENNERHASSETT’S ISLAND, OHIO RIVER.
By J. P. MACLEAN, of Hamilton, Ohio.*

The most famous of all the islands of the Ohio River is known as
Blennerhassett’s Island. For more than two generations it has been
an historic spot. Around it clusters one of the saddest episodes in the
history of our country. The traveler anxiously seeks to have it pointed
out, and having once beheld it his imagination lingers at the spot.
The history of the past wells up before him, and with pity and kind-
ness he thinks of the unfortunate man who was once its possessor.

The island received its name from Harman Blennerhassett, who, in
1798, purchased the upper portion, containing 170 acres. Previous to
this purchase it was known as Backus’ Island. It is supposed that
the island was first located by General Washington, in the year 1770.
It was first surveyed in 1784, and in 1786 Patrick Henry, then governor
of Virginia, made out a patent for it to Alexander Nelson. In 1792 it
was purchased of James Heron by Elijah Backus. At the present time
it is divided into four farms, and owned by four different parties, none
of whom resides there.

All that remains of Blennerhassett’s costly mansion and tasteful im-
provements are the old well, whose wall is covered with moss and fern,
two sand stone steps, and a piece of a stone gate-post. Where once
was the cellar is now a depression, with a sycamore tree several feet in
diameter growing in the center.

The island is situated 14 miles below Marietta, and 14 miles west of
the mouth of the Little Kanawha. It extends east and west and is of
peculiar form, narrow at the middle and broad at both extremities. It is
over3 niles long, although its area embraces only 297 acres. At the east-
ern extremity a ridge of land commences and runs through the center of
the island until half the distance is reached. On either side of this
ridge is a natural trough, resembling the bed of an ancient canal, with the
ridge banks higher than those bordering the river. The trough or ancient
channel bed on the north side of the western half of the island has been
cut away by the river, thus leaving the ridge to form the river’s bank.
During high water the river breaks over its banks and flows through
these troughs, and in its course deposits rich sediment. During the
time of these explorations the river was high and had broken into the

*The writer would here express his indebtedness to Mr. F. P. Ames, of Belpre,
Ohio, for the valuable assistance he rendered in the exploration of Blennerhassett’s
Island. It was he who called attention to its antiquities, and who took every oppor-
tunity to make the visit both profitable and pleasant. Mr. Bryant E. Johnson also
deserves grateful mention. Besides furnishing relics and granting permission to dig
in the principal shell heap, he generously abandoned his plow and assisted in making
the excavations. The illustrations were made from photographs and negatives fur-
nished by Mr. L. C. Overpeck, of Hamilton, Ohio, who kindly volunteered to do the
work without any charge.
760 PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY.

trough on the south side and flowed through the channel to the point
where the water re-entered the river, thus forming an island of consid-
erable size on the south. During low water the river recedes, thus re-
uniting the different parts of the island. The head of the island is
covered with trees, which serve to protect it from erosion and also from
damage by ice. Between these points is a dense covering of trees and
underbrush left for the same purpose, on account of the land being low
and the channel somewhatdeep. Here driftwood accumulates in great
quantities, making it of particular advantage to the islanders. Wisdom,
however, woulc dictate to allow the driftwood to accumulate in order
to protect this, the weakest part of the island.

The geological formation of the bluff on the Virginia side of the river
was not examined, but the rocks appear to be the same as those on the
opposite bank. On the Ohio side the rocks are composed of sand and
take the name of sand-rock. Not far distant, and farther up the river,
are located several grindstone quarries. The series of rocks belong to
that age known as the upper portion of the coal measures. Through
this sand-rock the Ohio has gradually cut its way until its bed is nearly
600 feet below the summit of the adjacent hills. That the bed of the
river was once still lower is evident from the fact that its bottom is
composed of sand and gravel. The river channel was partially filled
during the glacial epoch, and since the close of that period the river has
been gradually reaching its former level. During this process it has
changed its bed several times. The plain of Belpre was its bed at the
close of the glacial epoch. Distinct markings occur which exhibit
changes that took place upon the plain. By the continued process of
erosion, first on the Ohio and then on the Virginia side, shifting its
channel from time to time, the river has cut its way to its present bed,
leaving on the Ohio side a series of beautiful plains and on the Virginia
a perpendicular bluff.

Blennerhassett’s Island is not wholly an accretion of sediment formed
by the river, but largely a deposit of the age of ice. The river, in
the constant shifting of its bed, formed two channels at this point, which
gives shape to the island. The troughs running along the sides of the
ridge, thus forming three ridges (one of which is high and the other
two low and bordering the river), were once additional channels, thus
presenting four beds, all of which were occupied at one and the same
time. When this was the condition of the river the island, in all prob-
ability, was a series of three islands running parallel, the two outer ex-
tending farther into the present riverchannels. The bed of the trough
on the north side is higher than that on the south, and hence was the
first to become dry. More than one-half of the old trough on the south
side is still quite low and is soon overflowed during a rise in the river.
The whole island is occasionally inundated, which generally inures to
its benefit on account of the rich sediment usually deposited.

From the observations made the land seemed to be making on the

PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 761

south side, but on the western half of the north side the erosion was
great. The river, flowing from the north, strikes the Virginia bluffs a
little below the mouth of the Little Kanawha, and, on its rebound,
passes over to the north side of the island and washes the Ohio shore,
which in turn forces the waters against the island. So great has been
the erosion at this point that the summit of the ridge is scarcely 3 feet
in width. Unless it is soon protected the river, at no distant day, will
cut through, which will result in the rapid annihilation of the western
half of the island.

The geological structure presents a mixture of sand, gravel, clay, and
river sediment. Fine sand is the principal ingredient; the clay and
gravel are not predominant. ‘The ridge is covered with a rich vegetable
mold, varying in thickness from 4 inches to 30. Fossils are occasion-
ally picked up, among them Spirifer mucronatus and a variety of Zaph-
rentis. Coal is washed upon the sand-bars in the form of rolled peb-
bles. The coal has been lost from sunken barges and then rolled along
the bottom of the river. When thus found it takes all the variety of
shapes represented in the river gravel or cobble-stone.

The fact that the island was rich in its archeological remains was
known only toa few. The islanders are not interested in these remains
save to pick up the relics, for which they find a ready sale. COuriosity-
seekers have paid high prices for relics, simply as mementoes of the fa-
mous place. Two speculators have steadily watched the island for sev-
eral years, and immediately after high water they search along the north
bank where they pick up quantities of ancient art. These are disposed
of without revealing their true locality. Although the writer visited
the islands two days after a speculator had begn there, enough relics
were secured to illustrate fairly the wonderful productiveness of the
place. Including those purchased, the following is a list of relics ob-
tained: Fifty-seven arrow-heads, twelve spear-heads, one drill, four
hatchets, one flesher or bark-peeler, two pestles, three hematites, two
bodkins, one bone needle, two bone beads, seven ornaments, five circu-
lar stones, besides numerous pieces of pottery, human and animal bones,
and three pipes, one piece of the bowl of a pipe, and two pipe-stems.
Some of these are now deposited in the Smithsonian Institution. Oc-
casionally complete vessels are obtained. Some of these were found by
Blennerhassett, all of which were presented to his guests as soon as
they were obtained.

The first point examined was the largest shell heap on the island near
thecenter. The deposit is 1,125 feet long by 200 in width at the west end
and 3 feet in width at the eastern extremity. What was the original
width of the shell heap would now be impossible to tell. Mr. Bryant
Johnson, who has resided on the island during the last twenty years,
and in its vicinity all his life stated that, in his recollection the width
had been reduced 70 feet, and the whole distance was covered with
shells. Save along the margin of the bank the shell heap has been
162 PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY.

plowed over for the last forty years or more. The plow has displaced
innumerable shells from their bed and thrown them upon the surface.
The ground is almost covered with the shells of the Unio. Intermingled
with these shells are numerous pieces of pottery, chert chips, the bones
of the deer, &c. The jaw-bone of the deer is found in great numbers.
The remains of two human skeletons had been recently turned out by the
plow, but in a fragmentary state. This location is a little below the
brow of the ridge. Lying on the beach human and animal bones occur
with the shells of the land tortoise.

The point presenting the most satisfactory view for Seanad was
the brow of thebank, for along this line the deposit of shells had not been
disturbed by the nie. The bank presented first, a layer of vegetable
mold varying in thickness from 6 inches to 30. Then a layer of shells
(Unio) ranging from 4 to 6 inches, containing pieces of pottery, bone
and stone implements, and the bones of various animals. Under this,
at different points, varying in depth from 12 inches to 25 were ash pits.
Then came a sandy formation lying over a stratum composed of sand,
gravel, and clay.

Along this bank were made seven excavations; the first was at the
eastern extremity. As the ridge here is so extremely narrow the face
of the bank was slightly cut away in order to discover whether the
shells occurred farther east along the neck. The shells here presented
a fair compactness of deposit, but on being handled their sharp edges
erumbled. This is also true of the other places examined. Farther
westward, immediately under the mold, and 4 inches below the sur-
face were found in cogjunction, intermingled with the shells, several
pieces of pottery and an implement made of the antler of a deer. It
had been ground to a point and was probably highly polished. It does
not come to a point evenly, but presents two fiat sides. Numerous
split bones occurred and the jaw, axis, and other bones belonging to the
deer (Cariacus virginianus); a little west of the middle, 2 feet below the
surface was found a human skull, and with it a shell bead of the Oliva.
It was lying on its left side, with its base toward the north and within
the bank a distance of 4 inches. Under it and partly around it was an
ash heap. All the bones of the face were in place when discovered, but
rapidly crumbled on exposure to the air. By great care the cranium
was saved almost entire. It isnow inthe Smithsonian Institution. The
entire skull was filled with vegetable mold, very compact, and full of
rootlets, some of which still adhere to the sutures. On the removal of
the mold, within the skull and lying against the sagittal suture were a
pebble, a piece of charcoal, two finger bones, three sections of the verte-
bral column, a piece of the atlas, a part of the sphenoid bone, and pieces
of the ribs, also one of the teeth (bicuspid of the upper jaw) in the right
orbit. It may bea matter of interest to know how these bones came to be
displaced. The skull bore no traces of having been rolled or even dis-
placed since inhumation, save a twist in the lower jaw. If the skull had

~

PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 763

been displaced then the body or rest of the skeleton was displaced with
it. The probability is that some small animal burrowing into the earth
found the body before decomposition had destroyed all the fleshy parts,
and entering the skull through the foramen magnum used the cranium
for ahome. This must have taken place prior to the accumulation of
vegetable mold within the cranium. But this will not account satis-
factorily for the gravel stone and charcoal within the cranium nor the
tooth within the orbital cavity. The following are the measurements of
the cranium :

Inches.
Longitudinal diameter.-....-....- Bela ate Pan Nae NAY Ca Nek teat Se 6
anie ba Ua Ober esa... juie How 3 oS ono! cictalele w sicig © xia Tel guetta aves ets 5s
POR GICal IAM OESE oh emits sycih cic nto ees bani») Glade einige eee! as sy hese 5
I PORIMASTOLOVAPED, hoo aslo yn nie) Se eiatey pial my ci dna imlaue s eidiaie’e's) sieideiaa ate 12
EMGEI ZO MibalC IPCI LOT ONGC? (eras teks o2 e slafl ie alae eine let eerie eee 182

The cranium nowhere bears any traces of artificial flattening. On
placing it side by side with a skull taken from a mound in Liberty Town-
ship, Butler County, Ohio, a great difference presents itself in every
feature. Compared with an Indian skull from the west bank of the
Great Miami, same county, still another difference is seen besides its
noticeable smallness. The only feature in common is the raised line
along the sagittal suture. But between it and a skull from a mound
near Belpre, Ohio (noticed farther along), a great similarity is readily
seen in every characteristic feature. The skull was found where it had
been placed by the burial party. Had it not been for the few bones
protruding from the bank it would have been missed. The remainder
of the skeleton had been washed away by the encroachments of the
river. The fire-heap had gone out and was partly buried before the in-
terment, and vegetable mold had commenced to form overit. In cov-
ering up the body some of this mold was thrown immediately over it.
The probability also is, that some shells had been deposited prior to the
inhumation. The mold above the skull gave no evidence of having
been disturbed. ‘

Within 3 inches of the skull, and on the same level with it, an atlas
of the deer was found ; on the west of the skull, and removed about 2
feet, yet on the same level, were excavated a chert chip and one of the
bones of the foot of the deer; immediately below the skull, and lying
on the beach, were piecés of the lower and upper jaw of the deer; also
the scapula and one of the bones of the foot of the same animal, besides
many fragments of pottery. This pottery, like all the rest found, was
made of clay mixed with crushed river shells.

The next examination was made a little farther west. The vegetable
mold was over a foot in thickness, and the remains of the shells and
works of art also a foot in depth, including ornamented pottery and
fragmentary bones in abundance, together with a human atlas. A
broken implement was obtained here. It is composed of porphyry, and
764 PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY.

was finely polished. It presents four sides, showing breakage. In all
probability it was originally a bark-peeler.

At the last point examined the shell deposit is from 6 to 10 inches
below the surface. Under the shells is a charcoal layer. In this de-
posit were found ornamented pottery, an implement from antler, the
lower jaws of the deer, both young and old, the split bones of same
animals, the breast bone of some large fowl, probably the turkey, and
other objects of interest.

It is evident that if one should excavate at any given point within
this shell-heap works of art would be revealed. .

It should be remarked that the above excavations did not partake of
the true character which that word necessarily implies. Only a few
inches along the face of the bank were removed, a further exposure
being unnecessary. Another consideration also had weight, that to cut
much away would endanger the bank, and hence would have been dis-
advantageous to the land.

It is along this bank where most of the implements which have been
thrown upon the market have been taken. All the implements men-
tioned in the paper either came from this shell-heap or else from one
on the southeastern part of the island.

Other shell-heaps inspected are small and composed of the unio. They
were not explored, as they appeared to belong to the same age as the one
fully described above. The shell-heap at the southeastern part of the
island covers about one-half acre, extending to the south bank of the
ridge. When first discovered it was inclosed by a low wall, nearly
square, composed of surface material. Pipes, ornaments, circular stones,
and, some other implements were found in this heap.

A little below the shell-heap, and over the brow of the bank, five
human skeletons were dug up. Two of these were very large. They
were placed in a straight line, heads near together, but divided by a
small pile of shells.

These heaps face the Virginia shore, with the exception of one. It is
probable that the large one faced both shores originally. The general
surface of the land presents no reason why the heaps should be so
located. It is not probable that the Virginia side contained more of the
unio, and even if it did the supply would not have held out long enough
to have continually maintained a residence on the south. The reason
must be looked for in another direction. The Virginia bluffs do not pre-
sent a favorable point of attack by marauding bands, and, hence, it may
be concluded that the south side was deemed safer in case of an assault
by an enemy.

Fifteen different forms of arrow-heads are common on the island.
They are composed of gray, black, and brown chert, chalcedony, jasper,
and hornstone. As the implements occur in abundance it is probable
they were fastened to arrows and used for shooting fish. Implements
of the form commonly called a drill, composed of jasper, were probably

PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 765

used in fishing. The general opinion that these so-called drills were
used for perforating stone or other implements may be true. So far as
my own observation extends this view is not sustained. Hundreds of
them have been examined by the writer, and many are in his cabinet,
yet out of all these not a half dozen would indicate that they had been
used for drills. If so used their edges would be more or less broken.
In Butler County, Ohio, they are almost wholly found along our larger
streams. It is probable that sometimes they were used for drilling, but
usually in fishing or in the chase.

The forms of spear-heads made from chert and other stone are various.
One with a sagittate base is composed of a very pure and clear chalce-
dony. Only the stem or base is left; the shaft lost. This form is rare
in the latitude of Ohio. °

Other forms of implements were secured; a drilled ornament com-
posed of the columella of the Pyrula perversa ; another composed of the
same, not perforated, resembling a handle, but with no appearance of
ever having been so used; the tips of the horn of the deer, already re-
ferred to; pendants composed of cannel-coal, in one the eyeletis broken,
but in the other it is perfect ; beads made from bones of the bird; a bone
awl; one cup-shaped form is called an “eagle-stone.” It is a natural
formation, and must have been picked up from the gravel. It is partly
drilled, and perhaps intended for a suspended ornament. |

Three forms of pipes occur in the collection. One is composed of
baked clay, and is as hard as stone. It somewhat resembles catlinite.
Near it was found the stem, composed of the same material. As this
stem makes a complete fit in the orifice or stem end of the pipe there can
be no question that it was intended for this identical pipe. The work-
men did not complete it, for the perforation is still unfinised. At one
end its depth is one inch, and at the other one-fourth inch. A second
pipe is composed of a fine-grained sandstone, blackened by use and age.
At the top and opposite from the stem is a lip made for adornment.
The third is an incomplete pipe, composed of calcite, and intended to
represent the head, neck, and breast of some bird. A tube composed
of steatite found with it was, in all probability, a pipe-stem.

Among the pottery fragments are ears; one is perfect and the other
broken. One stone celt might be classed between hatchet and bark-
peeler. It is somewhat rude, never was finished, and is composed of
greenstone. A polished hatchet composed of greenstone and a tool of
the same material, probably used as a polisher, are types of stone im-
plements.

Circular discs occur. Some of them are perforated; one is discoidal,
and all of them are composed of fine micaceous sandstone, except-
ing one, of cannel-coal. Its face is smooth, and near the center is a
countersink. The perforation is regular, but not smooth. The opposite
side is roundish, with a slight depression at the center. It is scratched
by the coarse grains of sand.
706 PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY.

Another implement is composed of a very hard quality of baked clay,
and probably used in polishing. Chert flakes are everywhere picked up
in the two principal shell-heaps. Nodules of red hematite are common
here, but do not belong to the island.

Some of the coarser implements found are a broken flesher or bark-
peeler, polished and made from sandstone, a pestle, made of quartz and
finely polished, another unpolished and composed of a compact sand-
stone, a double mortar, composed of sand-rock. The obverse bow] is 6
inches long, 5 wide, and 14 in depth. The reverse bowl is of the same
depth and 53 inches in diameter at the top.

Double mortars are seldom met: with in the Ohio region. The collec-
tion contains also a so-called spindle-rest, with three perfect circular de-
pressions. On the opposite side is one similar depression. The mate-
rial is a fine sandstone. It was found in Highland County, Ohio. The
mortar is from the alluvial deposit on the Ohio side of the river, imme-
diately opposite Blennerhassett’s Island.

The implements above described do not represent all that are found
on the island, but only those obtained. Some very fine hatchets, com-
posed of brown hematite, and grooved stone axes were seen, but they could
not be purchased. Doubtless other classes of implements are picked up
from time to time.

After a careful study of what was observed at Blennerhassett’s Island
the following conclusions were reached :

(1.) The shell-heaps were all deposited by the same race of people
and at the same period of time.

(2.) The deposits were formed by that race commonly known as the
American Indians.

(3.) The evidence appears to lead to the conclusion that the Indians
who formed these heaps belonged to the earlier tribes ; for (a) time
must be allowed for the formation of the vegetable mold, and (b) also
a period must elapse for the growth of the forest trees. When the
island was first known to the Caucasian it was covered with forest trees,
which extended over the shell-heaps.

(4.) The island was a permanent home for the savages, and chosen
on account of its natural advantages. The savage races of North
America chose their abodes, whenever practicable, along the margin of
streams, partially because it afforded them protection against a sudden
attack. The high bank near the point of the confluence of two streams
was always chosen either for villages or camping parties, for the reason
that only one side needed to be guarded. Blennerhassett’s Island was
protected on all sides, thus giving natural advantages not afforded on
the main land. The deer and other animals were hunted on both sides
of the river and brought over in their canoes.

(5.) The evidence that the island formed a permanent habitation is
further shown by the vast amount of chert chips scattered throughout
the heaps. The chert was brought from “ Flint Ridge,” in Licking and

PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 767

Muskingum Counties, Ohio, and then worked into such forms‘as the
‘‘arrow-maker” had designed. The cannel-coal was brought from a
distance, and then shaped into such forms as was desired. Two good-
sized pieces of cannel-coal were exhibited, which had been plowed up.

(6.) That this people either bartered or undertook long excursions is
shown by the chert and cannel-coal implements, and the ornaments
made from the columella of the Pyrula, which shell-fish lived in the
Gulf of Mexico.

(7.) The numerous skeletons turned up by the plow probably belong
to a later age. It is hardly susceptible of proof that the people who
deposited the shells would bury their dead in shallow graves before
their huts. That intrusive burials occurred on the island as late as the
time of the white man is proven by the evidence of a lead pipe found
among the shells. The stem of this pipe is 3 inches long, and the
bowl 14 inches in height. It shows the traces of the molds.

On the Ohio side of the river, and immediately opposite Blennerhas-
sett’s Island, and on the second river terrace (plain of Belpre), arenumer-
ous evidences of the mound-builders, consisting chiefly of mounds. One
of these mounds is a miniature representation of the truncated mound
in the cemetery at Marietta. Like the above, it is surrounded by a
wall, with the ditch on the interior, the elevated pathway leading from
the mound to the gateway. In front of the gateway (parallel still kept
up) is a straight embankment several feet in length. The only differ-
ence in the design of the two mounds is that the gateway in the Belpre
mound faces the north.

About one year ago a mound near the above was removed. It meas-
ured 14 feet in height. In it were found several human skeletons and
numerous tubes and pipes. Itis composed of some kind of mottled stone
resembling steatite. One of the steatite tubes measures 11 inches in
length, and it is 1 inch in diameter across the mouth. The bore is per-
fectly smooth and even until it reaches within one-eighth of an inch of
the opposite end, where it suddenly contracts and the remaining part
of the aperture becomes quite small. This énd of the tube (some call it
a pipe) is surrounded by a flange 14 inches in diameter. The tube is
finely wrought, and exhibits much skill on the part of the workman.

Near the top of this tumulus was found a human skull, which is now
in the Smithsonian Institution. In form itis similar to the one obtained
on the island. The wormian bones in the right lambdoidal suture and
at the junction between the lambdoidal and sagittal sutures are the
largest the author has observed. These bones do not occur in the skull
from the island. The following are the measurements :

Inches.
Wonednueinal GiaMeler aii. ota elev aslo a epee role ao See OMe
PERT U ee AMMO tare Vaya ay opel ef al ors) evans tenet al al ei al a) wate ay Tafa 54
Wier heal aicime ter i io cus ei aiy sa ce ou este Ne Ua ia) pia im ca w'iGaiaie 54
) es Reis TG VEO eC] Te MeO iO ne Gnas Mee eshih ere etna mea ire eae y te 134

ETOTIZOMbAlC MEE MMTCTENGCE: 5c15 2). fsa aie, wie aluie a\c's afclmiejc'sie olga e ainl alae 194
768 PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY.

Over the left orbital cavity, and just above the superciliary arch, is a
perforation one-half inch in diameter. Another perforation occurs in
the right parietal bone, near the sagittal suture.

On the farm of Cyrus Ames, and on the alluvial terrace, several years
ago, the river washed out a hollow structure, composed of stone care-
fully laid up in the form of a well or cistern. This subterranean vault
had no visible outlet. Near it was found a rude mortar.

It is probable that other remains occur on the plain of Belpre and ou
the Virginia side, but as attention was not called to any other ancient
works, this account must here come to a close.

ABORIGINAL STRUCTURES IN CARROLL COUNTY,
TENNESSEE.

By James M. NULL, of McKenzie, Tenn.

The aboriginal structures in this county are four mounds, situated in
the southwest corner of civil district No. 22, three of them on Clear
Creek, and one on Crooked Creek, 4 miles south of McKenzie, Tenn.
Crooked Creek and Clear Creek are small, ever-running streams, with
swampy bottoms and miry banks, without any fords except where they
are crossed by the old Indian trails. Mound No.1 is 8 feet high and 30
feet in diameter, being situated in a front yard. The owner will not
allow it to be explored. It is on a ridge running down to a point on the
creek, half way between a spring 300 feet distant on the west and a
bluff 20 feet high on the east. On it were standing, when first occu-
pied 35 years ago, a chestnut and a sweet gum tree, each 24 or 3 feet
min diameter.

Mound No. 2 is on the south bank of Clear Creek, three-fourths of a
mile from mound No. 1, in a northwest direction, 350 feet from a bluff
15 feet high, and 200 feet from a spring. It was originally not more
than 3 feet high and 30 feet in diameter, was in a horse lot twenty-five
years or more, and has beon plowed over for 10 years, so as to be nearly
obliterated. During the plowing nothing in the way of relics has been
discovered.

Mound No. 3, one-half mile northeast of No. 2, is on the east side
of a bluff 20 feet high, and 200 feet distant, and about the same dis-
tance from a spring. It was 6 feet high and 25 feet in diameter when
explored a few years ago. A man dug a cellar in it, knowing it to be
an ‘‘ Indian mound,” hoping to find valuables. He sunk a pit 12 by 14
feet, 2 feet below the original surface, and found nothing but “red
dirt,” as he expressed it.

Mound No. 4, 6 feet high and 20 feet in diameter, is one-half a mile
northeast of No. 3, and 14 miles north of No. 1, with a spring 300 feet
and a bluff 600 feet distant on the east. It is situated in the woods,

PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 769

put has no growth on it. There is no depression of the earth near by.
It was explored by an old gentleman 30 years ago for treasures. He
sunk a pit 3 feet in diameter from the center of the summit to the level
of the surrounding earth. A gentleman who was present gives the fol-
lowing account: The mound was composed of red clay, and extending
from the apex to the bottom was a circular space, 6 inches in diameter,
consisting of black mold, apparently the remains of a pole, around
which the mound had been built; nothing else was discovered.

At the head of the bluff, east of mound No. 1, is a good ford; with
hard, sandy bottom, the only one known on Crooked Creek. On the
north bank, which is 10 feet high, is a deep worn trail, plainly visible,
although it has not been used as a crossing since the settlement of this
country, as long ago as 1820. The old settlers call it the “ buffalo trail.”
A ridge runs from this ford to the lower end of the bluff near mound
No. 2, where there is another ford and the only one on Clear Creek for
a number of miles. Like No. 1, it shows a deep trail worn down the
bluff on the east side. From the bottom runs a ridge near mounds No.
3 and 4.

When this country was first explored by white men, all the land west
and north of Clear Creek for a great distance was open barrens, almost
devoid of timber, and, consequently, a vast grazing place for buffalo,
elk, deer, etc. These fords gave them the only means of crossing in
their migrations, and the absence of any remains or relics in the two
explored mounds leads me to the opinion that they were designed for
observation. Each one is within sight of another, from No. 1 to No. 4.
Mr. Edward Gwin, who settled this place, collected quite a. number of
relics in the vicinity of mounds Nos. 1 and 2, consisting mostly of spear
and arrow heads and obsidian axes. They were sent to the Smithson-
ian Institution by Prof. E. H. Randle a few years ago.

The other indications of the former occupation of this region by the
aborigines are the remains of a great number of workshops. There are
a great many springs in this country, and wherever a spring occurs, on
the nearest elevation will be found quantities of flint chippings, broken
pottery, incomplete arrow-points, blocks of flint, smooth, rounded stones,
some with a small cavity worn on one or on both sides. These places
occupy an area of from 4 to2 acres. The material used must have been
brought from a great distance, as there is no stone in this country except
soft sandstone, and very little of that.

In 1863 the author assisted in exploring a mound 3 miles west of Tu-
pelo, Miss. It was 8 feet high, 30 feet in diameter, and composed of
white sand. It was situated on a ridge 400 feet west of a bluff, at the
base of which is a spring. A shaft about 6 feet in diameter was sunk
from the summit to the level of the surrounding soil, and a circular
space filled with dark mold was reached. It was not more than 2
inches in diameter. The ridge on which it was situated was composed
of loose sand covered with small growth of scrub oak.

H. Mis. 26——49
770 PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY.

MOUNDS IN PUTNAM COUNTY, GEORGIA.
By Bruns. W. KENT, of Eatonton, Putnam Co., Ga.

The most remarkable mounds in Putnam County were visited and
measured by Charles C. Jones, jr., and the writer, and reported by Mr.
Jones, namely, the Eagle Mounds, of which no description is needed in
this communication. Since the last report the stone tumuli on the
plantation of Dr. J. T. de Jorrette, east of Eatonton, have been dis-
turbed, and besides human bones taken therefrom, a pottery pipe of the
ordinary size, and shaped like the head of an eagle, was found. No
description is necessary of the other pipes in the series excepting the
one made to imitate a human foot, which is remarkable for the hardness
of the stone. From the stone tumulus on the plantation of Robert M.
Grimes was taken a soapstone finger-ring, not in the writer’s collec-
tion, which is without ornamentation. Another finger-ring, found near
the Eagle Mound, on Scott’s plantation, is made like a seal ring, with
a head or top. None of the pottery collected is remarkable; one vessel
is about 14 inches high, and a bowl measures 13 inches across the top ;
all the remaining vessels are about the usual shapes.

There is in this place a chungkee stone of white quartz or limestone
about 6 inches in diameter, owned by Thomas B. Harwell. It is beau-
tifully smooth, hollowed out on either side, and more smoothly finished
than any other implements ever seen by the writer. except those of
Mexicoor Peru. It has no hole through the center like the one drawn in
Foster’s Prehistoric Races (p. 218).

The human bones picked up from time to time reveal nothing unusual.
It is impossible, however, to get any whole skulls. Attention is drawn
to the fact of the existence of human remains under every conical-
shaped stone tumulus so far as examined; but whether such will prove
true of the bird-shaped mound is not known, as the stones are too large
to be removed Regarding the three mounds on Shoulder Bone Creek,
near Sparta County, pipes and pottery have been obtained from the
largest mound, but no human bones; whereas from the middle mound,
which is the smallest, and but little above the level of the bottom lands,
having been plowed over for 7 years, many human bones and teeth and
beads were taken. Ashes and shells are often found, showing where
the aborigines lived. There existed hereabouts, so far as I know, no
cave dwellings, and neither masonry nor sculptured slabs. While an
isolated skeleton is sometimes found, many exist in the tumuli. No
skeleton in a cyst or other receptacle has been found, except one of an in-
fant, probably in Mellepueli. All the stone tumuli are on high hills, usu-
ally on the highest portion; all the earth tumuli are in the bottom lands.

There are various other mounds and shell-heaps in this and adja-
cent counties. There is an earth mound on the lands of Mr. C. Purifoy,
in Jasper County, once probably 6 feet high, but now much leveled by

PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 771

plowing. Near Murder Creek, in this county, and not over half a mile
from the Clinton road, exists a stone tumulus said to be of immense
size, but never visited by the author. Near Little River,and below Pier-
sow’s mill, and on the opposite side, are several stone tumuli, and another
group east of these. They are within a few feet of the conical group, and
not morethan 100 yards apart. Thereis a mound near Dr. Jorrette’s dwel-
lling, near the opposite bank of the Oconee River, from which was dug a
bird-shaped calumet, and human bones also were found. There is a rock
mound on the plantation of Robert M. Grimes, near the line of Han-
cock and Greene counties, also an earth mound about 8 feet high and
30 feet in diameter, west of the rock tumulus, and near the Oconee River,
in Greene County, situated in the bottom land. Near Lawrence’s Ferry,
and between Little’s Ferry road and Oconee River, is a mound supposed
to be bird-shaped, inclosed in a circle. Upon the plantation of Dr.
White, Hancock County, are mounds of earth, near which runs a ditch. *
Various other small mounds and shell-heaps are scattered over this
county.

PREHISTORIC REMAINS IN FLORIDA.
By J. FRANCIS LE BARon, U.S. Engineer.

I arrived in Fernandina, Fla., February 26, 1877, accompanied by an
assistant. This place seemed to have been a camping or living place
of prehistoric man, for there was to be seen here the remains of a some-
what extended kjOkkenmédding, on the north side of the town.

I next went to Jacksonville, and remained there until July 14.
While there I made ‘the acquaintance of the principal archeologists of
the place, and from them obtained many valuable notes and sugges-
tions.

Mr. A. A. Knight, esq., informed me of the location of the mound in T.
258., R. 27 E., and the shell-heaps or kj6kkenméddings at the mouth
of the Saint John’s River, in M1 S., R. 29E., which I have since visited.
Those on the north side of the river on Fort George Island are men-
tioned by 8S. P. Mayberry in the Smithsonian Annual Report for 1877,
p. 305, and by a writer in Harper’s Monthly for November, 1878, in an
article entitled the ‘“‘Sea Islands.”

W. W. Dewhurst, C. E., postmaster at Saint Augustine, referred me
to the mounds in T. 358., R. 26 E., and T. 4S., R. 26 E., two miles east of
Mandarin.

Leaving Jacksonville on the 14th of July, 1877, we sailed up the river
in a two-masted sail-boat and discovered our first mound one mile south
of Picolata, on the east bank, in a high hammock. It is of sand, about
25 feet in diameter at the base, and 8 feet high, and situated about 50 feet
from the river. We did not open it, and it showed no signs of ever hav-

* Antiquities of Southern Tribes,C. C. Jones, jr., p. 144.
(72 PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY.

ing been explored. Leaving this place and continuing up the river, we
passed a mound on the east bank, 5 miles south of Tocoi, without know-
ing it. The next mound that we found was situated on the west bank
of the river, about 2 miles north of Pilatka. It was a shell-heap about
12 feet high, the eastern edge abraded by the waters of the river into a
steep bluff. A large part of this shell-heap had been carried away in
boats to form walks and drive-ways in Pilatka and for fertilizing pur-
poses.

This practice is very common throughout the State, and is es
the speedy destruction of these interesting remains.

The shells in this mound were mostly fresh-water species. The bot-
tom of the mound is washed by the river, and the part that has been
exposed to the continued action of the water has formed a kind of e¢al-
careous conglomerate, which is thickly interspersed with human and
other bones, broken in all cases that came under my notice. The con-
glomerate forms a very hard, apparently durable, stone, upon which
extreme age would produce but little effect.

I am informed by Mr. James H. Fry, of Pilatka, that there is a mound
in the swamp half a mile west of the shell-heap. Arriving at Pilatka
I found the remains of a small mound, filled with broken pottery, in the
southeast part of the town. The fire-bell tower stands upon it, and it
is partially demolished. There seem to be kj6kkenm6dding remains all
along the shore here. I was fortunate to meet Mr. J. H. Fry in this
place, and I found him well versed in the archeology of the region, and
disposed to give me all the information in his possession. To him Iam
indebted for the location of a large number of stations, including the
' following:

1. A shell mound nearly opposite Pilatka, a little to the north, on
the land of Mr. Thew. There is a wind-mill on the top.

2. A large shell mound, about 9 miles east of Pilatka, on the land of
Mr. Rollinson.

3. A large number of mounds, 20 to 30 miles west of Pilatka, from
one of which shells and arrow-heads have ®een taken.

Mr. Fry had a large collection of relics from different mounds; among
them was an earthen bow! holding about a quart, in perfect preserva-
tion, which was taken from a mound in Lake Worth, on the east coast.
Mr. Fry also informed me that there was a well-defined chip-yard, or
aboriginal neolithic workshop, with an abundance of rejected fragments
of flint, on the east bank of the Saint John’s where it leaves Lake
Monroe.

At Pilatka I also met Col. H. L. Hart, to whom I am indebted for the
locations of two mounds on Murphy’s Island, in the Saint John’s River,
10 miles south of Pilatka, on his land.

Leaving Pilatka, the next mound on the river, going south, is 4 miles
south southeast up a creek. We stopped next at San Mateo, a landing
on the east side.

PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. CE

From Mr. P. B. Bishop there I learned of a mound about 15 feet high,
30 feet in diameter, on the southeastern shore of Orange Lake, Marion
County.

The next place of interest on our route was a shell bluff near Buffalo
Bluff, on the east side of the river. Here we found human and other
bones and pottery in abundance. The bluff was about 6 feet high, and
the locality gave evidence of having been a residing station of an
ancient people. This place is only a short distance south of the mouth
of Dunn’s Creek. A little further on we came to Mr. White’s, on the
same side of the river. From bim I obtained the following data: There
are three mounds here on Mr. White’s land, and three shell-heaps partly”
on his land and partly on that of his neighbor, Mr. McDean. There is
also a shell-heap on the opposite or west side of the river, about a
quarter of a mile from the bank, claimed by Mr. White to be the largest
in the State; and a shell-heap and mound three-quarters of a mile south
of Mr. White’s, on the east bank, on land known as the Hernandez
grant. There are, besides these, one on the west bank, 2 miles south
of Mr. White’s, which is very large; one opposite this, on the east
bank; a very large one on the east bank, 4 miles south of Mr. White’s;
a very large one on the east bank, 6 miles south, on land of Mr. Wells;
another very large one on the east bank, 13 miles south of Mr. White's,
at a place now called Beecher, at the entrance of Little Lake George;
and, finally, one on the east shore and one on the west shore, 2 miles
south of Beecher.

On the east side of Dunn’s Creek is a mound with earthworks and
fosse. There is another mound on the same side of the creek, at its
junction with the Saint John’s, on land of Mr. Wells, or very near his
line ; and one on the other side of the creek, on Mr. John Wells’s land.

On Bear Island, in Dunn’s Lake, there are mounds, and others on
both sides of the lake. Mr. Wells’s house, at Nashua, Putnam County,
east bank of the Saint John’s, is situated upon a large shell heap. There
is another about half a mile north of Mr. Wells’s, on the same side; and
still another west of Mr. Wells’s, about a quarter of a mile from the
river, on the first island in the swamp. There is also a shell-heap on
the west side of the Saint John’s, half a mile north of the mouth of the
Ocklawaha River and half a mile from the Saint John’s River. We
passed the celebrated Mount Royal, but did not go ashore to examine
it, as it has been so fully described by Bartram and Professor Wyman.
There was a large shell heap (kj6kkenmédding) at Fort Gates, on the
opposite side of the river from Mount Royal and a little to the south.
Here Dr. Lente found an arched fire-place or oven, with numerous bones
of turtle, deer, and other animals, together with human bones, on land
belonging to himself, about 30 feet from the wharf. Thearch, he stated,
was perfect, and was found several feet below the surface of the kj6k-
kenmOddding as it was being leveled. Heinformed me that it exhibited
the true principle of the arch.
174. PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY.

Five miles south of Fort Gates we came to the outlet of Lake George.
Here on the east side, on land of Martin Hyas, are two mounds and two
shell heaps, in Range 26, Township 13, East and South. These were
pointed out to me by Judge Bartlett, of Georgetown, whom I found very
kind and obliging, and who left his office and took me through the hum-
mock to the locality. On Lake George are additional remains, as fol-
lows:

1. On the west shore, commencing at the northern end, there is a shell
mound directly west of Hog Island.

2. One on Salt Run, 1 mile up the run.

3. One at the mouth of Silver Run.

4, A very large shell-bluff on land of Damon Greenleaf, at the mouth
of Silver Spring. The shell mounds noticed near Silver Lake, and one
2 miles up Juniper Creek, are given on the authority of Professor Jef-
fries Wyman.* }

Passing around the southern extremity of the lake to the east shore,
at the influx of the Saint John’s, at a place called Lake View, we find a
very large mound on land of Mr. Rapes.

Next on the Acosta grant, Range 278., Township 13 E., on Dr. Lente’s
place, called Seville, there are several small mounds.

We now leave Lake George, and passing up the river to Volusia find
there a large cone-shaped mound at the landing on the east side of the
river. This mound appears to be nearly 20 feet high, and at least 300
feet in diameter at the base. There is a house and orange grove upon it.
It is irregular in shape, and was probably built on hilly ground. Pro-
fessor Wyman speaks of a shell deposit there and a mound at Fort But-
ler, opposite, but we saw nothing of them. The next shell mounds
observed by us are those called Orange Bluff and Bartram’s mound,
near the outlet of Lake Dexter. These are also mentioned by Professor
Wyman.t He also speaks of two between these and the last mentioned,
which we did not see. :

The next shell mound visited is at Saint Joseph’s, 7 miles north of
Osceola, on the west bank of the river. Thereisa house onit. We did
not stop again until we arrived at Blue Springs. There are severalshell-
heaps shown on the map in this distance which had been examined by
Professor Wyman, so we did not stop for them, but contented ourselves
with a view of them as we sailed along. The one on the west bank at
the outlet of Lake Beresford appeared very large. The other one is half
a mile south of Palm Landing, and one a mile south, both on the east
side. At Blue Springs I was fortunate in meeting Mr. L. P. Thursby,
to whom I am indebted for valuable information, as was Professor
Wyman on his visit. We found there the shell heaps mentioned by the
latter on both sides of the Blue Spring outlet.

The next shell mound is at Mr. Scott’s, called Barker’s Landing, on

* Fresh-water shell mounds of the Saint John’s River, Florida, p. 38.
t Ibid., pp. 35, 37.

PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. TS

the east bank, about 2 miles north of the mouth of the Wekiwa. There
is a house upon it. At the mouth of the Wekiwa there are two mounds
on the east bank of the Saint John’s. They are 1 mile south of Emanuel
Landing. One is about 100 feet from the river, on the edge of the hum-
mock, and the other is about 250 yards, and in thehummock. There is
another about 7 miles by river, 4 in a straight line, near or on land of
Colonel Thrasher, about a quarter of a mile from the Saint John’s River,
across amarsh. This mound is 1 mile north of Lake Monroe, on the
east side of the river.

Professor Wyman mentions extensive shell deposits, 6 or 7 miles up
the Wekiwa, but we did not visit them. There is a shell mound on the
Sanford grant, at the north end of Lake Monroe. About Lake Monroe
are other mounds, as follows:

The celebrated shell mound at Old Enterprise ; this was being carted
off when I visited the spot, August 15, 1877, for the purpose of fertiliz-
ing a neighboring orange grove. I collected several specimens there,
of which mention will be made further on. The mound was apparently
about halfgone. It was composed of fresh-water shells, similar to those
now found in the lake, but very much larger than any now living that I
have seen.

There were occasional fragments of large sea conchs, many human
and other bones, and much pottery with ashes, &c. Very many of the
delicate shells were uninjured, although very fragile, showing that they
must have been piled up in very large quantities at a time, and not
have been simply the remains of a feast left on the ground, for in this
case the shells would have been exposed to breakage by the trampling
of feet and movements of the family. Throughout the mound the shells
were deposited very loosely. There was not sand enough to bind them
together, and remarkably little humus or black soil. This heap cannot
then be classed as a kjOkkenmédding. It must have been raised for a
purpose, and not as the incidental accumulations of kitchen refuse. If
the shell fish were used as food it would seem that they must have been
boiled whole and then the shells thrown on the pile after the extraction
of the tenant.

I am informed by Mr. Scott, of Barker’s Landing, that 2 or 3 miles
from this mound and from the lake is a shell heap, composed entirely
of oyster shells.

Leaving Lake Monroe, the first station of interest was Ginn’s Grove.
Here are two sand burial-mounds and near by is a shell heap, or rather
a kitchen refuse heap (kjékkenmédding). One of the mounds is high and
conical, the other low and flat, and spread out over a large extent of
ground. The conical high mound had been opened previously and we
found several fragments of pottery and human bones thrown out of the
excavation.

Continuing on our voyage we passed Lake Jessup by a cut-off, and so
did not see the mounds referred to by Professor Wyman, and shown on
776 PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY.

the map at outlet of Lake Jessup. Lemon Bluff was the next place
where we found prehistoric remains. This about 10 miles from Lake
Harney. The bluff is about 30 feet high and on the top is a cultivated
field, and here are found indistinct remains, broken pottery and shells.
It was evidently a place of residence.

At Cook’s Ferry, on the west bank of the Saint John’s, at the outlet
ef Lake Harney, is a very large shell heap, on which is an orange grove
and house. I found several pieces of pottery there and some bones of
animals and human beings. This is described under the name of King
Philip’s Town by Professor Wyman. Back about 200 yards is a small
but steep conical sand mound. In this mound Mr. Coue, sheriff of
Volusia County, found two flakes of silver about as large as a 25-cent
piece; they were smooth and without marks, and he thought were poor
silver.

On the west side of Lake Harney, just north of Fort Lane, is a mound.
IT am also informed that there is a large earth-mound at Fort Christmas,
above Lake Harney and west side of Saint John’s, in pine woods.

The next that we visited was the so-called Orange mound, about half
a mile south of Salt Creek outlet, and on the west side of the Saint
John’s. This has the appearance of an island in the boundless marshes
surrounding it, and is visible from a long distance. It was then covered
with trees, which have since been cut away, sugar-cane and other
crops being planted in their place. It is conical in shape, rising on all
sides to the center. It is colossal in dimensions, being over 600 feet
in diameter at the base, and about 40 feet high. The ground appears
everywhere to be composed of black earth and shells and ashes. It does
not seem possible that it should have been artificially formed, for the near-
est dry land is as much as 3 or 4 miles off, and communication can only
be made by boats. It appears to me probable that it was a retreat for
the women and children in time of war, and that there was originally a
small hill there, which was increased in size by the accumulations of
shell-fish and kitchen refuse, incident to a prolonged camp. <A small
excavation made by some alligator hunters, which I examined, yielded
the usual pottery and broken bones. I think this place deserves a care-
ful exploration.

There is a small mound of like nature about 2 miles south of Lake
Harney, on the west side of the Saint John’s River, and about a quarter
of a mile off in the wet prairie. It is covered with cabbage palms, and
is but 3 or 4 feet high.

The next mound, as I have been informed, is situated at the northeast
end of Lake Poinsett, on the east bank. Going further south, there is
an earth mound at Fort Taylor, on the west side of Lake Winder, on
the margin of the lake. There is now a country store on it. There isa
mound 10 or 15 miles south of Lake Washington, at the head of Big
Cypress Swamp, west side of river, and north of the swamp. For the
last three I am indebted to Mr. Osteen, tax collector of Volusia County.

PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. rig

Professor Wyman mentions two shell heaps on the east bank of the
Saint John’s and the right bank of Salt or Moccasin Creek (facing down
stream), near the union of the creek with the river. One of these he
calls Possum Bluff, but wrongly, as Possum Bluff is situated about 15
miles south of Orange mound, in a straight line on the east side of the
Saint John’s.

There is a mound near the mouth of Snake Creek, which connects
Salt Lake and Lufman’s Lake. It is about one-half to three-quarters of
a mile up the creek. Mr. Coue informed me that he had made a cursory
examination of it, and found a lot of beads and a human skull with a
bullet-hole in the back.

This completes the locations on the Saint John’s and its tributaries
as far as my examinations extend. The Ocklawaha River, I am informed,
contains a great many on its banks. Crystal River, on the Gulf coast,
is mentioned by Col. F. L. Dancy, formerly State engineer and geologist
of Florida, as having a remarkable mound on its bank, 4 miles from its
mouth.* ?

Several mounds are reported 20 miles south of Saint Augustine, on
Peltier’s Creek, on land of David Carter, and shell-fields on Anastasia
Island, opposite Saint Augustine.

I am also informed by a ‘‘Cow-boy,” who had seen them, that there
are two or three mounds on the east bank of Reedy Creek, in the north-
east corner of Polk County, between the creek and Lake Tohopekaliga,
and also remains of extensive earthworks, believed to be fortifications,
near the bay on the east side.

I am informed there are mounds on two large islands in Lake Kis- .
simee, southerly from the last.

Mr. A. W. Conklin mentions in Forest and Stream of December 30,
1875, pp. 330 and 331, the following mounds and earthworks: .

One near the south bank of Boggy Creek, a stream which flows to
the southeast and empties into the northwestern bend of Little Tohope-
kaliga, and another about 4 miles further south, near the edge of Fen-
nel Prairie. These mounds, he says, are very much alike, being about
50 feet in diameter and not over 10 feet high. Also a greater number on
Barton’s or Parton’s Island than in any other place. One in particu-
lar, which he calls Parton’s mound, seems to be a fortification, with a
fosse, enciente, graded approaches, &c.

A mile to the northwest of the above-described works, in the edge of
the hummock overlooking Pleasant Lake, are the remains of a very
large fortification, with walks nearly 20 feet in thickness and from 3 to
8 feet high.

Other and somewhat indefinite remains are found on a hill, about a
mile to the southwest, across Pleasant Lake. One mile further west,
on Pine Island, he says, there is another work, consisting of a mound
surrounded with a wall, and having what he thinks an artificial boat

*Smithsonian Report, 1866, p. 357.
778 PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY.

harbor. In the interior of the island, which is 2 or 3 miles in diameter,
other mounds are found which do not differ materially from the one at
Boggy Creek. In addition to these larger remains, the main island has ~
on its surface some two or three hundred smaller mounds, usually about
50 feet in diameter, and 2 or 3 feet in height. He considers these dwell-
ing places.

Four miles south of Pine Island is a work similar to the one at Pleas-
ant Lake. Along the eastern side of Lake Tohopekaliga are a number
of small mounds, and at the place of Charles McQuaid, on Lake Cypress,
are two of the ordinary round-topped mounds. Twenty miles south-
east of Lake Kissimee is another large mound. It is about 35 feet
high, 40 yards in diameter, built of sand, with a graded approach, and
covert way. About a dozen miles southeast of this mound, which is —
called the Hope mound, in the neighborhood of old Fort Drum, are two
other mounds similar to it.

All down the Kissimee River mounds are to be found, of which the
largest and most important is at Daughtery’s, on the west side of the
river, 4 miles northwest of Fort Bassenger, on Istokpoga Island, at the
northeastern extremity. Here we have again the ‘graded approach, a
covert way, and circular bastion. One hundred yards to the west is an
earthwork resembling a redoubt. Eighteen miles to the southwest of
this mound, in the marsh which bounds the island, is a part of a wall,
which is a milein length. Atthe southeastern extremity of Little Toho-
pekaliga Lake is a work similar to the Parton mound already described.

Along the Kissimee River are embankments apparently raised by
the hand of man, running for long distances in a straight line. Hesays
they were apparently constructed for dikes. In the Parton mound, on
the Little Tohopekaliga Lake, John Evans, ex-sheriff of Queen’s County,
exhumed fifty-four skulls which had been buried close pete forming
a circle.

At McQuaid’s, mound on Lake Cypress, a piece of gold, Fieeribed with
characters in some unknown tongue, was found. It was hammered, not
coined, and sold for $16.

The ‘Hope mound,” near old Fort Drum, has nig been disturbed, and
offers with others near it a fine field for ine antiquarian. The articles
taken from the Daughtery mound are all modern, consisting of an im-
mense variety of beads, some small as a pin’s head and others an inch in
length, of various colors, and some of them gilded—glass ear-drops,
and a piece of silver about 35 inches in diameter and about equal in
thickness to a silver half dollar; two steel axes, each over 10 inches in
length, one 44 and the other 54 inches on the blade. On the sides of
the ax are several markings made with acold chisel. All these articles
were found near.the surface.

Mention is also made of a remarkable work on the Caloosahatchee
River, which appears to be acanal. On the west side of Lake Okee-
chobee, near Fort Center, just above the mouth of the Trathlopopka-

PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 779

hatchee River, in Townships 40 and 41, Range 31 south and east, are
mounds, as lam informed by Dr. Kenworthy, of Jacksonville, and others
who have visited them. There are fortifications south of them in T, 42
S., R. 30 E. Dr. Kenworthy also locates a mound south of the Caloosa-
hatchee River in T. 45 S., R. 26 E. Mention is made of shell banks at
the mouth of Manatee River, Tampa Bay, in Smithsonian Report for
1866, page 357. Mr. James M. Kreamer, chief engineer of the Atlantic
and Gulf Coast Canal and Okeechobee Drainage Company, who has
lately visited the remarkable canal on the north side of the Caloosa-
hatchee River, discribes it as a canal 4 feet deep by 10 feet wide, clearly
cut through the low fiat pine woods, and the excavated sand and earth
thrown up on the sides. It starts from the upper end of Lake Flirt,
and runs in a portheasterly direction, in a perfectly straight line, as if
laid out by an engineer, to a group of large mounds situated in the pine
woods about 3 miles from the Caloosahatchee River, and then returns
to the.river in a southeasterly direction between Coffee Mill Island and
Lake Hiakpochee, inclosing a triangular area, and having a total length
of nearly 6 miles. Large pine trees were growing in the bottom, in
places where there was no water. Many of these trees were as large as
any growing in the surrounding forest.

Returning to my own discoveries, while chief engineer of the Saint
John’s and Indian River Railroad in Florida, and engaged in locating the
line from Titusville to Lake Harney, I found the following mounds:
About half a mile from Titusville, and a quarter of a mile north of
the track, on the south side of the wagon-road to Salt Lake, is a small
sand mound in the pine woods. It is only about 5 feet high, and per-
haps 15 feet in diameter at the base, and is overgrown with bushes and
saw palmetto. Four miles and fifty-four hundredths from the terminus
in Titusville, at the junction of the Salt Lake branch of the railroad, is
a large sand mound. The Saint John’s and Indian River Railroad
comes round near the west side. It is about 200 feet in diameter and
30 feet high, almost a perfect cone. The pits from which the sand was
taken are plainly discernible at its base. This mound is mentioned
by Professor Wyman,* whe opened it on the top, and found a “skeleton
and piece of coquina cut in the form of a turtle.” Subsequent explorers
found two silver coins in it, which were in the possession of 8. J. Fox,
then general manager of the Saint John & Indian River Railroad.

The next mound is about a mile from the railroad, to the east of sta-
tion 160 (100 feet stations starting from “ Indian Mound Station” on the
Salt Lake Branch Railroad), or about 3 miles from the junction.

At station 284, about 54 miles from the junction, is a small mound on
Turtle Island at the head of the Salt Lake Prairie. It is situated on
the immediate east bank of Boggy Branch, and only about 60 feet north-
east from the center line of the railroad. It is a sand mound about 25
feet in diameter, and 5 or 6 feet high.

* Fresh Water Shell-Mounds of the Saint John’s River, Florida, p. 16.
780 PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY.

Commencing now at Mosquito Inlet, on the east coast, and going
south, I will mention the mounds on the Hillsboro’ River, Mosquito
Lagoon, Indian and Banana Rivers, and Lake Worth, as far as I have
been able to discover and locate them or learn of them. But first I
will mention a mound on the farm of Mr. Andrew Bostrom, on the Hal-
ifax River, north of the inlet and nearly opposite Ormond. This mound
is just south of the house and close to the bank of the river. It was
originally about 50 feet through at the base and 6 feet high, but has
since been cut through on the western side to form a road.

There is also a high sand mound a few rods south of Smith’s place,
‘ about a mile south of Bostrom’s, on the same side of the river.

South of Mosquito Inlet the first mound is at ‘‘the extreme north end
of Block Hummock, 3 miles west of Mosquito Inlet.” This is described
by A. M. Harrison, assistant United States Coast Survey,* who found
in it human skulls and several peculiar beads.

We come next to the large shell heap at New Smyrna. This is a
kjékkenmédding, about 20 or 25 feet high, 300 feet long by 150 wide. |
It contains broken pottery. There is a country store upon it. There
is a shell mound opposite, not a kj6kkenmédding, at Captain Briggs’s,
formerly Alden’s place, which is mentioned by D. G. Brinton, M. D.,
in Smithsonian Report, t866, p. 357. Half a mile south of New Smyrna,
on the west side, is another large shell heap near the river, with a house
upon it.

One mile and nearly three-quarters south of New Smyrna, on the
saine side, is a large shell heap upon which are the ruins of Turnbull’s
Castle, and just north of it Turnbull’s Canal. The canal and castle
were built by the English during their occupancy of this region.

South of the post-office in New Smyrna, at a distance of 53 miles, is
a mound on the west side, near the riverand Mr. R. Burdick’s place,
which is known as the Fox mound.

Six and a half miles south of New Smyrna and on the same side
is a very large shell mound, with a house upon it. The place is known
as Childs’s, but is now owned by Mr. F. J. Lockwood. It is about 30
feet high and 400 feet long on the river. Directly opposite this, and
half way to the ocean, in the middle of the large mangrove marsh, is a
shell heap on a branch of Cedar Creek. It is about 15 feet high and
60 feet in diameter at the base, which has been partly washed away by
the waters of the narrow creek. If this place was chosen for conceal-
ment, the builders were eminently successful, as it is very difficult of
access and effectually hidden by the thick mangrove trees. It seems
incredible that human beings would ever have chosen such a place for
a habitation, unless to escape discovery from an enemy. The island
upon which the mound stands is all mangrove marsh.

One mile south of Childs’s, by the west passage, is a large mound on
a small island near the west bank, known as “ Brick-house Mound.”

* Smithsonian Report, 1877, p. 305.

PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 781

The Coast Survey have a trigonometrical station and a stone post on
top. This mound is high and steep, and composed of oyster shells and
conchs. It is about 100 feet in diameter, and 20 or 25 feet high, with
a steep bluff on the eastern side, where it fronts on a small cove. This
cove contains the best oysters on the east coast. A wagon road has
been built around the eastern face and a causeway across the marsh in
the rear to the main land, about 100 yards, where there is alarge wild
orange grove which has been budded with sweet stock.

Nearly due east from this shell heap, on the ocean beach ridge, is the
celebrated Turtle mound, 8$ miles south of New Smyrna. It is com-
posed mostly of oyster shells, with occasional conchs. The western side,
next to the Hillsboro’ River, is now abraded by the water to a pre-
cipitous bluff. It appears to have two summits, with quite a valley be-
tween, and the sides are covered with thick bushes. This mound is de-
scribed by the same writer in Smithsonian Report, 1866, p. 357, and by
myself in Rod and Gun, November 4, 1876.

We come next to avery large mound at Bissett’s Hill, on the west
side of Hillsboro’ River, about a mile south of Turtle mound. It is
as much as forty feet high, with steep sides, composed of shells and
black earth, and covered with a wild orange grove. It was also used
by the Coast Survey as a triangulation station, and its position is well
shown on their published chart, No. 4, of the Inside Passage, East Coast
of Florida, Hillsboro’ River. Several of the mounds on the Hillsboro’
River and Mosquito Lagoon are shown on these charts.

Directly east of Bissett’s Hill, on the beach ridge or peninsula, close
to the East Channel, is a small shell-bank at a place called Pumpkin
Point.

Just a mile and a half below Bissett’s Hill is a small shell mound,
called “Live Oak Mound,” on land of Mr. Lafayette Allen, and a few
rods north of his house. This I did not examine.

A little more than 2 miles south of Bissett’s Hill, on the west side, is
a Shell heap known as Oak Hill. It is about 18 or 20 feet high, nearly ~
800 feet long and 500 feet wide, the longest side fronting on the lagoon.
It is composed of shells, mostly oyster, and is very irregular on the top,
with many small hillocks of shells, with depressions between them, as
if the hill had been the abode of several families, each one making its
own heap. The east side is washed by the waters of the lagoon, and
the west is backed by a marsh and creek about 800 feet wide alto-
gether. Human bones and pottery are found in it. There is a post-
office called Oak Hill upon it and several houses. Mr. Rideout, formerly
a county commissioner of Volusia County, once lived here, and two of
his family are buried on the top, just south of his house. This is a true
kjékkenmédding. It is situated on a point, partially protected in the
rear by a creek and marsh, as is the one at Bissett’s Hill. This kind
of location was a favorite one with these people. It served to protect
them from the stealthy approach of an enemy or from the dangerous
782 PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY.

attack of wild beasts and reptiles, of which the black bear and panther,
and poisonous snakes were the most dangerous. It also gave them
greater immunity from the mosquitoes, and enabled them to enjoy the
cooling sea breezesin summer. For the same reasons the first settlers
have generally chosen these places for their own residence.

A little less than half a mile southerly, on the lagoon shore, same
side, is another large kjOkkenmoédding, and there is a house upon this
also, belonging to Mr. Frank Sam’s, of New Smyrna. This heap is nearly
as large as the one at Oak Hill.

Continuing south just a mile, by the west shore of the Mosquito La-
goon, we come to Swift’s wharf, built several years ago for the purpose
of shipping live-oak lumber. On the shore, at the north side of this
wharf, is a large mound and shell heap. Captain Swift’s headquarters
and office is located upon it. This place is in sec. 9, T.198S., R. 35 E.,
and the two previously described are situated in Sec. 5, same township
and range.

Continuing south now, we come to the “ Ross Hummock,” on same
side of lagoon and near Mr. McCarty. Here we find a large sand burial
mound, about 50 yards from the west bank of the lagoon, in what was
a wild orange grove, but had been grafted and cleared up at the time of
my Visit in February, 1878. There is a small brook between it and the
shore, close to the mound and a deep artificial ditch with running water
about 100 feet to the south. This last is believed to be the work of Dr.
Turnbull’s colonists at the time of the English possession of Florida.
The mound, as I have stated, is of sand, with very precipitous sides.
This has apparently never been opened.

Two and a half miles north of the Haulover Canal, near Butler Camp-
bell’s, there is said to be a burial mound in the scrub, about 200 or 300
yards from the west shore of the lagoon.

Passing through the aforesaid canal and going south about half a
mile we come to a small sand burial mound on land of Charles H. Nau-
man, formerly Lisbon Futch. It is about 155 yards from the east bank
of the Indian River. I made a partial examination of this mound in
1869, and described it in Rod and Gun, November 4, 1876. We found
there only portions of skeletons and broken pottery. Subsequent ex-
plorers have opened a trench through the mound down to the original
surface of the ground. They found nothing worthy of note except a
large oval coquina stone, about 24 feet in transverse and 14 inches in
conjugate diameter. Around the shortest medial circumference a groove
was cut about 2 inches deep, as if for the fastening of a rope. There
were no other marks upon it, but it had evidently been rounded and
brought to shape by the hand of man. This stone wasleft lying at the
base of the mound by the discoverers, where I saw it in 1878. Iam
informed by Mr. Nauman, whose house is only about 200 feet east of the
mound, that the stone was found in the exact center of the mound at
the bottom. It is difficult to determine its use. It could have been
used as an anchor for a large canoe or for fastening a guy-rope.

PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 783

We pass next to the shell-banks, or kjbkkenméddings, at Dummett’s,
12 milesfrom the last. These are low fields, with shells and pottery,
and are found on the lagoon and Indian River sides of the isthmus.
One of the largest orange groves in the State is growing at each of
those places. They were originally wild groves.

Passing then to the head of Indian River, on the east side of which
we find a mound in the hummock near Mr. Griffis’s, and descending to
Titusville I learn that there was a small sand mound about 6 or 7 feet
high on land of P. E. Wager, who removed it and excavated a cellar for
a house on its site. It was about 390 feet from the west bank of Indian
River.

East southeast from Titusville, on the east side of India River, on
Merriit’s Island, there is a large mound on land of Dr. Moore, as I was
informed by J. W. Joyner, since deceased, who also stated that he picked
up several earthen vessels onit, which he used in the house until broken
by the children.

On the Banana River there is a large shell-bank containing broken
pottery, at the De Soto Grove, on the east side of the river, on the line
between Townships 22 and 23 South. South of this about 5 miles is a
burial mound in the orange grove of M. O. Burnham, keeper of the
Cape Canaveral light-house. It is about 8 feet high and 50 feet diam-
eter. There was a wild orange grove there.

South of Titusville, 12.35 miles by the new Titusville and City Point
road, as I located it,is a large sand mound in the hummock now belong-
ing to Charles R. Carlin, but formerly to Albert Faber. It is on the
west side of the river, about 500 feet from the bank, in T. 23 S., R. 35
EK. It is about 25 feet high.

A very large mound or shell heap is reported directly east of the head
of Banana River, near the ocean beach, but I have never visited it.

In T. 248., R. 36 E., are two sand mounds on Merrit’s Island. The
most northern one is about half a mile west of New Found Harbor, and
the other is only about 100 feet from the east bank of Indian River, in
Section 27, near the house of Aaron Cleveland, C. E. They are both
small.

The next mounds of which I have any knowledge are situated on the
peninsula, between Indian River and the Atlantic Ocean, at the mouth
of Banana River. There is at that point a very large shell mound,
which was used by the Coast Survey for a triangulation station. Its
western face is abraded by the waters of the river into a steep bluff, the
river having encroached nearly to the center. It is composed of small
shells and ashes, mixed with human, animal, and fish bones. It is not
far from 50 feet high and 300 or 400 feet in diameter on the river.* The
back of it is covered with a wild orange grove, and it is covered with
large India-rubber, torch-wood, and other trees. There is broken pot-
tery mixed through it, but I could find but one stone implement, al-

* Detai.ed survey and plan of this locality was made.
784 PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY.

though the broken river face presented a fine opportunity for viewing
the interior. Iam informed that near this to the north are two burial
sand mounds in the scrub, although I was able, after a close and long-
continued search with two assistants, to find but one, and this had been
opened. What appears indistinctly lke a wide level road or way leads
due east from the shell heap, between two ponds, which possibly were
once one.

Less than a mile south of this mound is a small kjékkenmédding on
the immediate east bank of the river, on land of J. M. Hopkins, whose
house and garden are situated on it. There are somewhat indistinct re-
mains at the mouth of Crane Creek, at Melbourne, on the north side, on
land of Thomas Fish, deceased, and on the south side on land of Peter
Wright. On the opposite side of the river in Sec. 6, T. 28 S., R. 37 H, is
an Indian mound. South of this not quite 2 miles is another, both on
the east side of the river, and the last opposite the mouth of Turtle
or Turkey Creek. I am told that shell fields exist on the banks of this
creek but have not examined them.

Cape Malabar is an insignificant point of land on the west bank of
Indian River. South of the cape, on the same side, about four-fifths of
a mile, is a shell mound on land of E. Arnold, and adjoining this, to the
south, is a shell bank. About a mile and a half south of the Arnold
mound there is asand mound, on land of Mr. Damon, in Sec. 8, T. 29 S.,
R. 38 E.

The next mound is of shell, situated on the beach ridge due east from
the island called Grant’s farm, and néar the northeast corner to T. 30
8., R.38E. It is called “ Wild Boar Mound,” and is situated in a deep
bay of the river at a very narrow place in the peninsula. The waters
of the river come to the foot of this mound, which is about 20 feet high
and 200 feet long on the river, with steep sides, and composed of broken
pottery, shells, and ashes.

In T. 31 S., R. 39 E. is a high long bluff of shells on the west side of
Indian River. I have not examined this except from the river, but it
is probably an extended kj6kkenmdédding.

Opposite Jupiter Inlet on the west bank at Stone’s Point are several
large oyster-shell heaps, as I am informed by numerous observers, one
of which is said to be very large. In the southern end of Lake Worth,
in T. 4558., I am told there is a large mound on the west side of the lake,
about 100 yards from the beach, and across the lake on the sea beach
there are two large shell heaps composed of oyster shells. No oysters
exist now within 10 miles of these heaps. There is also a mound in
the hummock opposite the old inlet to the lake.

On the Delesfine grant, on the east boundary of Sec. 32, in T. 22 S.,
BR. 35 E., is a very small and insignificant kjbkkenmédding. It is very
probable that this place is of much more recent age than the remains
previously described herein, it having the appearance of a camping
place of some of the Seminole tribe of Indians.

PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 785

I will now briefly speak of some prehistoric remains in the southwest
ern part of the State that I have lately visited.

In March, 1881, I started from Orlando, Orange County, Florida, with
an ox-wagon, in charge of a Government party, to make certain surveys
and examinations for a steamboat route from Saint John’s River to Char-
lotte Harbor, on the Guif of Mexico.

We passed down by Forts Gatlin, Davenport, and Clinch, and thence
down the valley of the Big Chocleypopka River to Peace Creek ; thence
to Charlotte Harbor, and from there to the mouth of Caloosahatahee
River and up the river nearly to Lake Okeechobee. Before making Fort
Clinch, and near Lake Pierce, we passed near the Indian village of Chipco,
named after the old Seminole chief, since deceased. We visited the vil-
lage, which consisted of less than a dozen cabins built of logs and fan
palmetto. It is situated on a small hill. Numerous sweet orange trees
in bearing were growing among the houses, and « sugar-cane field was be-
ing cultivated near by. The Indians had been living on this spot for
many years, but there was no indications of a kj6kkenmoédding forming.
This is accounted for by the fact that these Indians live principally on
venison and fish. No shell-fish of any kind were observed about the
place, and so the principal agent in the building of the heaps was want-
ing. This may account in some measure for the absence of heaps in the
country traversed from Orlando to Charlotte Harbor, as no shell-fish are
attainable in that region.

In all this distance from Orlando to Charlotte Harbor, about 120 miles,
I found only one prehistoric mound that I could confidently assert
to be of human origin. This was a small kjOkkenmodding on the west
bank of ‘Stake Ford” prairie, just north of the entrance of the south
prong of the Big Chocleypopka River. It was situated in a grove of
live oaks and was small and uninteresting.

On the west bank of Lake Livingston, about 12 miles north of the last-
named locality, we found about one-fourth of a mile from the lake what
appeared to be an earthwork, about 5 feet high, and perhaps 800 feet
long, shaped like a crescent broken in the middle. It was in flat pine
woods, the convex side facing the lake, and the interior was at that time
a grass pond with three small islets, the water about a foot deep. It
is very doubtful whether it is the work of man, but it struck us as sin-
gular to find such an embankment inthe flat pine woods, whose monoto-
nous level is often unbroken for many miles.

At the town of Myers, on the site of Fort Myers, I found asmall sand
mound in the western part of thetown. Second street is laid out over it.

Captain Peter Nelson, of Myers, told me that a canal existed clear
through Pine Island in Charlotte Harbor. This is a long, narrow island
about 14 to 2 miles wide. Hesaid public opinion was divided as to the
builders, some attributing it to the mound builders and some to the Span-
iards, or early pirates. I was unfortunately unable to visit it. There
is quite a large mound below Myers on the same side of the river, about

a mile from the town.
H. Mis. 26——50
786 PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY.

In the summer of 1880 I was appointed county surveyor of Rrevard
County, Florida, and surveyed the south line of the county, starting in
near the mouth of the Saint Lucie River, and going west about 22 miles.
On the way to the starting-point, at the mouth of the Saint Lucie River
I stopped at Fort Capron, opposite Indian River outlet. Here I found
a large deposit of oyster-shells resembling a kjékkenmédding, but saw —
no mound. I stopped also at Fort Pierce, about 4 miles south of Fort
Capron, and here I found a large sand mound on the west bank of the
Indian River or Saint Lucie Sound, and just south of the old fort, the
embankments of which are plainly discernible. I stopped also and ex-
amined Mount Elithabeth, which is shown on nearly all maps of Florida.
I found this to be a large, high, and symmetrical mound of black earth
and shells, which would probably be classed as a kjékkenmédding. It
is an immense work, probably 60 feet high, and with the exception per-
haps of Turtle mound, the largest prehistoric monument that I have
seen in the State.

I found also, on ‘the north bank of the Saint Lucie River, about 3
miles from the mouth, in a large bay of the river, another immense
mound called Mount Pisgah, truly gigantic, and of the same character
as Mount Elithabeth. Near its base is the remains of a stone house,
built of coquinastone, and believed to be theremains of the abode of some
of the pirates that are known to have infested this locality in the early
days of the present century. I saw no other mounds on the whole trip.

This completes my present knowledge of the prehistoric remains of
Florida. As the object of this paper has been to simply state facts, I
will not enter into any lengthy discussion as to the objects or uses of
the shell mounds.

Different persons with whom I have conversed in Florida have sug-
gested that some were built for lookouts, others as sites for residences,
to enable the dwellers on them to obtain the benefit of the breeze, so
desirable in this climate, while others have thought they were used as
dwelling-places to avoid the mosquitos, which are so troublesome in the
woods near the ground, and others still that they were used as dwelling-
places, to enable the occupants to escape the floods which even now in
certain seasons often surround their bases during great storms. This last
hypothesis receives more credence from the fact that numerous instances
have occurred of white settlers resorting to them in such emergencies. It
may perhaps be safe to say that incidentally they have served all these
purposes. Nota few persons whom I have met contend strongly against
this artificial origin, believing them to have been cast up by the sea,
but they totally fail to account for the presence of broken pottery and
bones which almost invariably forms part of their composition. The
great shell banks on Fort George Island, at the mouth of the Saint
John’s River, have the appearance of oyster banks in which the shell-
fish were killed by some geological catastrophe, such as elevation above
the water, but the remains of man appear distinct, superimposed upon
them. This place deserves more careful study. I have endeavored to

PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 187

fix the location of all the mounds and remains in the State of which
IT could learn, in the hope that others with more leisure at their disposal
and better fitted by anatomical knowledge might be aided in their
search by these descriptions. If in this I have succeeded, I shall feel
that my labor has not been in vain. There are numerous mounds and
shell heaps on the western coast of the State that I have been unable
to visit. Many of them will be found described in the recent Reports of
the Smithsonian Institution. In regard to the race or tribe who have
left these monuments, it appears to me most probable the kjékkenméd-
dings were the work of successive races or generations of Indians, and
incidentally formed by the slow process of accumulation naturally
coincident to prolonged residence on one particular spot, and the bulky
and imperishable nature of the remains of the shell-fish upon which
they principally subsisted, this residence being chosen and maintained
as most eligible, and in many places the only dry location available
throughout the year. These kjokkenméddings are now generally the
most desirable places of residence to be found in the adjoining country,
and they and the immediate vicinity are commonly occupied by the
present settlers. The reason for the formation of the shell heaps is
more obscure. Some intelligent persons, however, with whom I have
conversed are of the opinion that they both have been modified by the
action of water since their formation, the stratified appearance of some
of them and their immense extent lending a shadow of plausibility to
this supposition. If this should be the case it would define an age for
these remains far earlier than has generally been supposed. The gen-
eral absence of stone or flint implements would seem at first sight to
favor this hypothesis and carry the age of these remains back to the
earliest advent of man in the Paleolithic age. I think, however, from
my somewhat extended observations in this and other States that the
theory of a submergence since the original formation of the shell heaps
cannot be maintained.

We find the same appearance of stratification in thesmall shell heaps
in Ipswich, Mass., examined and mapped by me in 1873 for the Pea-
body Museum, which are of comparatively modern date, and it is easy
to see that this stratification could have been formed in the gradual ac-
cumulation of the heaps, occupied probably, at irregular intervals, by
the wandering tribes. Itis known that the Ipswich shell heaps have
never been covered by flood. In all the remains that I examined in
Florida I could find no evidence of a superimposed stratum of material
foreign to the heap, except such as resulted from an accumulation of
vegetable humus, or was caused by the action of the wind transporting
loose sand, and by the action of the river waters at their several stages
or such higher stages as periodically occur. I have, then, unhesitatingly
assumed the remains to belong to the Neolithic age, and account, in a
great measure, for the absence of flint and stone implements by the al-
most entire absence of material from which to construct them in the
regions examined. The natives undoubtedly possessed some of these
788 PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY.

things, but they must have been brought from a great distance, and were
therefore held in great esteem and corresponding care taken of them.
Their tools and weapons were probably mostly of wood, and have, of
course, long ago decayed. Very many of the flints found were probably
the implements of the later Indian tribes.

Regarding the remains in the Kissimmee Valley and about Lake Okee-
chobee there is little doubt that they were constructed by a race anterior
to the Seminoles, and for purposes of worship or war; possibly, also, in
some places for internal improvements. These remains deserve careful
and systematic search and study. I am informed by Dr. Kenworthy,
of Jacksonville, that he has found on the Gulf coast other evidences of
attempts at improvements by canals on a large scale.

The amount of pottery that is found in Florida is truly astonishing.
In the kjékkenméddings it forms a large percentage of the material.
It is found also in the sand mounds, generally in larger pieces, and
sometimes in whole vessels. It has never been my fortune, however, to
find any of the latter. There is scarcely a hummock or piece of rich
arable land which does not yield numerous specimens upon being cleared
and dug up. It seems as if the ancient people who used it had an eye
to fertility in choosing their residences, and goes to prove that they
practiced agriculture. They certainly made a very judicious selection
of lands for cultivation, if we are to believe that these places had been
in actual cultivation where such broken pottery is found in the soil.
It is very seldom that it is found scattered in like manner in the poor,
light, sandy soil. Kjékkenmédding heaps are found on all kinds of soil,
but it is very seldom, in fact never to my knowledge, that the poor,
white, sandy soil yields, upon being turned up, any broken pottery, as
is the case in the rich lands. Per contra, the residence of a large com-
munity for a great length of time on poor, white, sandy soil would nec-
essarily enrich the land and give it a darker color; but it would also
tend to an increased elevation and so form a kjékkenmédding, which
simple cultivation would notdo. Allowing that these rich fields where
broken potteryis found bad been under cultivation and been cleared of
trees, we must go back for the age of these agricultural operations be-
yond the age of the trees now growing upon them, which, in many situ-
ations that have come under my observation, would exceed four or five
hundred years. There are now growing upon these fields dense trop-
ical forests, almost impenetrable jungles, with trees of immense size
and age.

It is known that the Seminoles were agriculturists. In the Seminole
war our armies found flourishing fields of corn and other crops, and the
settlers often point out clearings in hummocks, with the great dead
bodies of live oaks girdled and killed many years ago, as old Indian
fields. These old giant live-oaks will last two or three generations when
girdled and left standing. Broken pottery is also found in these places
in profusion, but these fields are but small clearings in immense forests,
whose soil, wherever opened, is found filled with pottery.

PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 189

On Indian River, at the large shell mound situated at the mouth of
the Banana River, on the beach, at the foot of the mound, an unfinished.
arrow-head of flint was found. It is the crudest artiole of flint manu-
facture that I have found, but it has evidently been worked by the hand
of man. It has been smoothed by the action of the waves. Most of
the pottery found is very rough and shows no marks. There is a great
difference, however, in the composition of different pieces, some being
made of very fine clay, and very compact and smooth, while others are
very porous and disintegrating. One piece picked up is extremely hard,
almost flinty, with a smooth polish on the inside. It is almost. impossi-
ble to cut it with a knife. In color, some are black when cut and some
light brown. One piece is a bright brick red on the outside third, show-
ing evidently strong action of fire. A large piece, found in the large
shell heap at the mouth of the Banana River, previously referred to,
has still upon the outside the soot or crock from the fire. This was
found buried nearly 8 feet from the top. None of the fragments found
appear to contain any pounded shells and very litte sand.

IT am informed by Mr. White, of Buffalo Bluff, a very intelligent set-
tler, that a large iron ax was found imbedded in the heart of a dead
live-oak upon his place, and that this oak had been dead as loug as any
of the settlers could remember. Healsoinformed me that astone phallus
was found upon his place and is in the possession of a gentleman of Sa-
vannah. Dr. Joseph Jones, in Antiquities of Tennessee, mentions the
occurrence there of similar specimens. At the large shell mound known
as the ‘ Wild-Boar Mound,” in T. 308., R. 38 E., I found a perforated shell
similar to the one described by Professor Wyman, on page 58, Fresh-
water Shell Mounds of Florida, and figured in same Plate VIII, Fig. 2.
It is a Busycon carica, 44 inches in length, at present, the beak being
chipped and broken off. The hole in my specimen is round or nearly
so, about eleven-sixteenths of an inch in diameter, made in the last
turn, the nearest part of the circumference being 2 inches from the
month. The spines are all broken or ground off, and the shell, at the
mouth, is chipped. It looks as if it had been used as a mallet py in-
serting a stick in the hole for a handle.

I am informed by the Hon. Columbus Drew, ex-governor of Florida,
that a golden spear-head was found in amound in Orange County, Florida,
along with an oval disk of silver. The spear-head was about 24 inches
in length and 14 in width in the widest point. He stated that it ap-
peared as if hammered out or formed by a somewhat unskillful work-
man. Its bullion value, as given by a jeweller, was $18. No marks of
any kind appear on it. This interesting relic is still in his possession.
The silver disk found with it appeared to have some marks or scratches
upon it, but they could not be deciphered and the governor was not sure
that they were intended for anything. This silver disk had unfortun-
ately been cut in two by the ignorant discoverer, and, it is believed, a
piece taken out for the purpose of ornamenting the stock of his gun.
790 PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY.

It is highly desirable that these interesting relics be analyzed at the
mint to discover, if possible, the kind of bullion of which they are made,
and in this way show if they were made from Spanish or American
coins, by the amount of alloy they contained. If from neither, but if
composed of pure gold it would tend to show a much more ancient age
for them.

In concluding this imperfect account of the prehistoric remains found
in East Florida, it is proper to state that without doubt other mounds
and remains exist undiscovered by me in the districts traversed. The
almost impassable nature of a great part of the county, owing to the in-
numerable ponds, sloughs, brooks, and rivers, the cane-brakes, and im-
penetrable jungles filled with bamboo, grape, and numerous other vines,
and tall palmetto, renders travel on foot, or in any conveyance except
a boat, almost impossible. The density and luxuriance of the growth
of these tropical forests hedges onein with an impenetrable wall, through
which a bird can hardly fly, and in which vision is limited to a few feet
around the explorer.

Of course, in these places it is only by chance the unguided explorer
stumbles upon a mound. I am therefore very greatly indebted to the
gentlemen I have named for information and for having left their occupa-
tion in many cases to act as guides.

Especially would I mention Mr. James H. Fry, of Pilatka; Frederick
Lente, of Lake George; Mr. White, of Buffalo Bluff; Judge Bartlett,
of Georgetown; Doctor Kenworthy, of Jacksonville; Mr. Wells, of
Nashua; Mr. Scott, of Barker's Landing; Aaron Cleveland, C. E., of
Merritt’s Island; and Mr. Bradley, of Lake Worth. All evinced great
interest in the objects of the expedition.

In summing up the results of the expedition, the paucity of relics will
be remarked. It must, however, be remembered that the object
was simply a reconnoissance and not a thorough examination. It
was my desire to accurately determine and map the locations of as
many stations as possible. It should be observed that between a point
about 2 miles north of Pilatka and Lake George these remains are ex-
ceedingly numerous, a mound or shell heap occurring at about every
half mile of the river. This portion of the State seems to have been
much more thickly populated than any other examined. This region is
a very fertile one, and is now more thickly populated by white settlers
than almost any other. The wonderful accounts from the valley of the
Kissimmee, and almost equally wonderful from the Ocklawaha, make an
exploration or reconnaissance of these regions desirable. The geo-
graphical range and distribution of these people will go far towards
clearing up the mystery of their origin and disappearance. Florida has
undoubtedly in past ages sustained an immense population, and it is
appropriate that the ruins of their cities and their imperishable monu-
ments should be preserved, and their locations mapped, as a record of
the march of nations.

PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. TO

GOLD, SILVER, AND OTHER ORNAMENTS FOUND IN
FLORIDA.

By J. Francis LE Baron, U. 8S. Engineer.

The articles described in this paper were first brought to the notice
of the writer by the Hon. Columbus Drew, sr., of Jacksonville, Fla., in
the fall of 1882, who has kindly furnished the following account of the
locality where they were found and their surroundings. The pieces
belong to his son.

‘‘The gold arrow-head and other pieces were found near the line divid-
ing Polk and Orange Counties, Florida, about the year 1875. They
were dug from a small mound in which they lay 3 or 4 feet deep, among
many stone battle-clubs and hatchets (weighing altogether, perhaps,
100 or 200 pounds) with clay pots or pot-ware. The clubs and hatchets
were given away to different parties soon after the relics were discov-
ered. The remaining half of what seems to have been a triangular
silver ornament, to be suspended by the small hole on the top, was cut
off by a hunter to ornament his gun with. The halfof the scissors was
found with the other pieces. I feel quite certain as to the genuineness
of the relics and the facts stated about them.”

It was found to be impossible to obtain a regular assay of the pieces
in Jacksonville. They were, however, referred to two jewelers in the
city for examination.

Tests were made by Mr. J. Gumbinger, jeweler, of specimens No. 2
and 3 with acid and touchstone. He reported the spearhead No. 2 to
be composed of 14-karat gold, having a bullion value of $19.04, and the
miniature ax No. 3 to be of 20-karat gold and worth $6.

The other specimens, except the fragment of scissors No. 6, he con-
sidered to be silver, except possibly No. 9, which has somewhat the ap-
pearance of brittania-ware.

Mr. Crosby, of Greenleaf & Co., jewelers, on the contrary, stated
quite positively that Nos. 1,5, and 9 were lead or pewter. No tests were
made of any besides the gold pieces, except with a graver, as neither
of the jewelers had proper appliances for testing silver.

My own examinations and conclusions as to the metallic character of
the specimens I present in tabular form below :

] |
No. Metal. Character. | Troy weight. aie: | Remarks.
Oe 02. ete gr.
1 | Alloy of silver..| Cast.... ..-. Ll 2 els 10.051 | Apparently an alloy of silver or bri-
| tania-ware.
ZeGOlde ne eee 25|) -a4eaeeneeees 1 14 05 12.439 | Dark red gold; apparently alloyed with
copper.
3 OE S6eqqseer Hammered 0 (hy eS 14, 077 Bright yellow gold.
Wl Silver ices. 2 Cast ... .-.. 0 2 20 8.500 | Undoubtedly silver.
5 || Alloy of silver. -|..-.do..-.--.- OF dso 8.574 | An alloy of silver or britania; much
oxidized fragment of iron.
G}) 38RD Ny atigis aac sood apes eonooooeAo| bossbossmosasH|Seasnooune
7 Siver Sooo dgn0s6 Hammered OF ON Oo Ease nek Ung oubeodly silver.
Gi SAG ere st ago aaa Ipaee GOine eee 0 ON MSH eee ce Ae
9 iste of silver..| Cast.... .-... 0 14 20 9. 594 Douttial silver; probably britania or
other alloy.
160°] Silver. <2. ..:-- Hammered.-| 0 0 04/.......... Undoubtedly silver.

792 ; PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY.

The specimens were carefully weighed. The specific gravity was deter-
mined by weighing in distilled water at a temperature of 65° Fah.
Numbers 7, 8, and 10 are very thin, about the thickness of a wafer.
No. 4 is about three one-hundredths of an inch in thickness. No. 1 is
about five one-hundredths of an inch thick on the edge and about eight
one-hundredths near the middle. The hole in the center has been bey-
eled on one face of the specimen with some sharp cutting tool, the marks
of which are discernible. It was evidently first cast, and has been rub-
bed down on the back, as presented in the drawing and photograph,
apparently by the use of sand, the striz being plainly discernible. The
face presented in the photograph does not appear to have been treated
in this way, but has the appearance of acasting. Itis very much harder
than lead, and a fresh cut does not tarnish. It is apparently brittle,
having a crack nearly across its face. No. 8 is also cracked in much the
same manner, and has no markings. No.7 is unmarked in any way.
No. 10 is piereed with a small hole near one apex, and there are numer-
ous punctures on the edges, which do not, however, pass through. No.
4 is marked on the face with lines which were evidently made with a
sharp pointed instrument, like a graver. The back shows the impress
ofa mold. It is perhaps the most interesting of the collection.

No. 5 is evidently a bullet, much harder than lead, which has been
perforated with some sharp pointed tool, making a hole of large di-
ameter at the two ends and smaller in the center, such as would natur-
ally be made by a small penknife. The hole in this and also the two
holes in the end of No. 9, are filled with a substance resembling rosin,
which gives to the lizard-shaped specimen, No. 9, the effect of two bril-
liant eyes. This No. 9 has been broken in two places. Ithas been sug-
gested that this singular shaped specimen served as a spoon or other
instrument for eating, an idea suggested by its trough-shaped under side,
which resembles a cheese-knife, such as is used by grocers. The ma-
terial is hard and brittle, and there is a trace of gold in the tailend. Its
thickness is eight one-hundredths of an inch in the center, one edge be-
ing considerably thicker than the other. This piece resembles the head
of a cat-fish. No. 2 is eighteen one-hundredths of an inch thick in the
center, and the edges have been rubbed down to about from six one-hun-
dredths to eight-one-hundredths of an inch in thickness. The point is
sharp. This is evidently cast, the indentations of a rather smooth
mold, such as appears on the surface of smooth castings, being very
plain, especially on one side. This appears also to have been rubbed
down as with sand and water, and the edges beveled.

No.3 is about three one-hundredths of aninch thick, somewhat thinner
on the edge of the axe, and thicker atthe top. It is evidently hammered,
and is very smooth. Examining the specimens on the basis of their rel-
ative specific gravities, the low values found for the gold specimens is
most noticeable. This shows them to be largely alloyed with much
lighter metals, such as copper or brass, silver, &c. The alloys of the

PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 193

silver specimens are shown to be a lighter material than lead, as all the
specimens proved to be lighter than silver; cast-silver being 10.474
(Ganat) and cast-lead 11.352 (Ganat). This shows them to be probably
alloys of silver and zine or tin, or both, or possibly nickel. These speci-
mens were all probably used as amulets.

No. 9 has the only totemic resemblance. This may have been intended
as an imperfect representation of a cat-fish or a lizard. Nos. 2 and 3
were probably of a class known as “‘ ceremonial weapons,” being too
small and valuable for actual use in war or the chase, especially No.
3, but were used by the ‘‘medicine men” in their ceremonies.

On page 61 of the Archeological Collections of the United States Na-
tional Museum * there is figured (Fig. 224) a copper celt from a mound
near Lexington, Ky., which has a resemblance to our No. 3, although
more than double the size.

On page 282 of the Eleventh Annual Report of the Peabody Museum
of Archeology and Ethnology of Harvard University, there is shown
(Fig. 6) a round silver ornament, taken from a mummy in the ancient
cemetery at the bay of Chacota, Peru, and described by Mr. John H.
Blake. This article has a close general resemblance to our No. 1, and
is, as described, of the same material, although 14 inches larger in di-
ameter. Like this specimen, ours is brittle, and the hole in the center
is larger, but is countersunk in much the same manner. This Peruvian
specimen appears to have been worn as an ornament around the neck.
Unlike the Peruvian, ours has no marked indentations on the edge,
and, judging from the description, the Peruvian was much thinner.

Discoidal ornaments of shell, stone, ete., are very numerous, and ap-
pear to have been universally popular with the aborigines. Many are
figured in the volume on Archeology of Lieutenant Wheeler, United
States Engineers, surveys west of the one hundredth meridian.

Judging of these specimens by their specific gravity, it appears cer-
tain that the gold ones at least, cannot have been made from coins unless
a large amount of alloy has been added.

On page 298 of the Annual Report of the Smithsonian Institution for
1877 there is a description by Professor Rau of a gold ornament found
in Florida. In his observations on this ornament Professor Rau states.
that there isno ground for supposing that the Indians north of Mexico
possessed the art of casting gold. This would apparently point to Mexico:
as the probable origin of the gold specimen No. 2, which I think is un-
doubtedly cast, as I have stated in the table, for we would not suppose
the whites to have manufactured a gold ornament of this shape; and,
moreover, a close examination of the specimen will show a want of per-
fect symmetry, indicating it, with still greater probability, to be the
work of the aborigines or Aztecs.

*The Archeological Collection of the United States National Museum, in charge of
the Smithsonian Institution, Washington, D. C. By CHARLES Rau. (No. 237.)
Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge, Vol. XXII.
{94 PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY.

SHELL-HEAPS OF CHARLOTTE HARBOR, FLORIDA.
By Dr. Me SmEMONsS, (US. Ne

Charlotte Harbor, on the Gulf eoast of the Florida peninsula, is
roughly estimated to be 30 miles long and 8 miles wide. It is separated
from the open waters of the Gulf by a series of islands, which the con-
stant surf is steadily washing away throughout their whole extent. Into
the northern extremity of the harbor, Pease Creek empties, and near
the southern end the Caloosahatchie River.

Charlotte Harbor is divided by Boca Grande Pass, and its channel
into a northern and southern portion of nearly equalextent. The north-
ern half has two channels, an outer between Boca Grande and Gaspa-
rilla, and an inner between Pease Creek mouth and Boca Grande. Be-
tween these are a tongue ot the mainland and several small keys. There
are several extensive mud-flats, dry at low water, which afford feeding
grounds for countless numbers of Grallatores, among which the roseate
spoonbills are numerous, and the flamingo is not uncommon. On the
tongue of land there are many marshy or swampy spots where G. wil-
sonii abound from December to March. I saw no mounds in the north-
ern half of the harbor. The southern half contains more than sixty-five
distinct keys. Pine Key, the largest, is some 12 miles long and 1 mile
wide; Bird Key, the smallest, contains less than an acre. There are
many reefs and shoals exposed at low water, and just awash at high;
but the keys counted are from 4 to 6 feet above tide level naturally in
the center, and fringed witn a heavy mangrove growth. I have visited
twenty-five shell-heaps in this half of the harbor and feel perfectly se-
cure in stating that there are as many more hidden by the mangrove
growth on Pine Key and the keys in the inner channel.

In the southern part of the harbor there are also two channels. The
inner, or Mattacha, runs between Pine Key and the mainland down to
the mouth of the Caloosahatchie, and looks as if it might once have been
the bed of Pease Creek ; the outer or main channel runs between Pine
Key and the outer or barrier keys. On the islands in the Mattacha
Channel, and on that side of Pine Key, there are many accumulations of
shells, some of large extent and several feet in thickness, but no conical
mounds or ridges were seen. There are works of some description,
however, on nearly every key in the outer or main channel, and these I
shall now describe, beginning near Boca Grande and working south.

On the Gulf side of the outer keys there are no shell heaps, but along
the inner channel there are six known to me. Their average height is
about 6 feet above mean water, the upper 3 feet of which are of shells
and fish-bones ; the surface is irregular and varies from one to several
acres in extent; they have been cut away extensively by shiftings of
the channel. Mondongo Key, about two miles southeast of Boca Grande,
is covered to a depth of -6 to 8 feet for half a mile in length and 100

PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. TOD

yards in width ; below the shells there is probably an equal depth of
sand and clay; on its northeastern end there is a conical mound about
10 feet in height, which commands an extensive view.

Southeast of Mondongo is Patricio Key, which has a layer of shells
over its surface for half a mile or more, but it is apparently a clay bank
fifteen or more feet in height, precipitous on one side and sloping rapidly
down to water-level on the other.

Less than a mile south is Useppa Key, whose northern extremity is a
mud-bank 6 feet in height topped by shells to an equal amount; this
widens ovt into a plateau about 100 yards wide, sloping to the west-
ward. The island is over half a mile in length, and about half way
down from the northern end the plateau forks, the eastern arm form-
ing a ridge about 18 feet high facing the channel, the western forming
a narrow flat ridge not over 10 feet high. Between and protected by
these there is about an acre which is not over 6 feet above mean water,
and at the southern extremity of this there is a space about 20 feet
square, which is not over 2 feet above water-level, and was probably used
by the Indians, as it is now by the Spanish fisherman, as a location
for a well. It is protected east and west by a continuation of the ridge
and plateau and on the south by a conical mound 15 feet or so in height.
Abreast of this mound a boat channel, which runs down from Pease
Creek channel between Pine and Patricio Keys to join the main one,
comes close inshore, and probably has always been the landing place,
for the ridge, plateau, and mound form a gentle slope to the water’s
edge ; south of this there is another large irregular mound and a high
plateau, quite flat, and about 2 acres in extent.

South of Useppa, about 3 miles, is Garden Key, which has a plateau
in front rising gradually to an irregular oblong embankment on the north
side, and to one of equal height, but greater length, on the south. The
latter runs east for about 50 yards, then south about the same distance,
and west for a little greater distance. Between the north and south
ridges there is a spring-hole, or garden, half an acre in extent. Farther
back, and protected by the ridges in front and on the sides, is a plateau
of shells about an acre in extent and about 8 feet above mean water.
South of Garden Key there is a key about 5 acres in extent, which has
been raised throughout to a height of 8 or 10 feet.

Due east of Useppa, a little more than a mile, there is a group of
mounds and ridges very similar to those on Garden Key, but much
greater in extent—a plateau in front, then mounds orridges flanking a
spring-hole. One ridge runs parallel to the present beach but is crossed
by another at right angles, the two protecting a plateau several acres in
extent. These heaps are on Pine Key, and, from them, straight across
the island to Mattacha Channel, there runs a canal or ditch which passes
two ponds and another mound in the center of the island. This canal
may have been a feeder to the ponds, as described by De Soto, but it
also shortened the distance to Mattacha Channel fully 10 miles for
canoes.
796 PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY.

The shell mounds were formed by piling up the beach sand and then
putting the shells on top as they accumulated. They were evidently
the accumulations of ages, and were shaped as seen (conical mounds,
ridges, and plateaus) to afford protection to the inhabitants during the
high waters of hurricanes. In 1870 the water at Punta Rassa stood 8
feet deep over the beach on which the cable station is built. The beach
is fully 4 feet above mean tide, so that the water rose 12 feet in less
than twenty-four hours. The mounds also make splendid gardens, and,
by giving sweep to the wind, afford the best of protection against mos-
quitoes and flies. The fact that the mounds and ridges do not form an
inclosure shows that they were not intended as fortifications; they
simply afforded places of safety from the flood and prevented the wash-
ing away of gardens and crops by it.

Many of the mounds have large trees growing on them, and the shells
and bones in the center have been ground to dust, but others are made
of shells, always broken, as hard as if gathered yesterday. There is an
old trader among the Florida Indians, settled now at Key West, who
told me that the Indians say that their ancestors built the mounds along
the coast. He said, moreover, that the Florida Indians exactly resem-
ble physically those of Cuba, but neither look at all like those of Mexico.
A Charlotte Harbor settler told me that the present Florida Indians
were, until the last few years, in the habit of coming down to the coast
every fall and camping on the mounds to fish and to escape the sickly
season on the mainland. He further said that these Indians are not
Seminoles, but remnants of a tribe which occupied the country before
the Seminoles moved down from farther north and conquered them.
They are sun worshipers.

I went up the Caloosahatchie River 25 miles, and the Manatee 12,
and neither saw nor heard of any fresh-water shell-mounds. There are
shell heaps at Manatee and on the east coast at Mosquito Inlet, but they
are oblong mounds with flat tops and are solitary. In asmall one in
Manatee village I was told that human bones were found, and with them
some stone implements. .

ANTIQUITIES IN WASHINGTON COUNTY, MARYLAND.
By Joun P. Smiru, of Sharpsburg, Md.

Inthe vicinity of Sharpsburg there were mounds and earthworks, some
of which have been destroyed, and others have been excavated and round.
to contain numerous archeological specimens. Tradition informs us
that a most bloody affair occurred on the Antietam Creek, near its
mouth, which is distant 3 miles south of Sharpsburg, more than a cen-
tury ago, between those warlike tribes of savages, the Catawbas and
Delawares. These tribes, it is said, were engaged in strifé when this

PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 7197

section of the country was first known, between 1730 and 1736, and
they so continued for a long period subsequent. The evidences of this
conflict are still apparent in the skeletons which from time to time are
exhumed.

On the farm of Mr. William Hebb, distant 2 miles westof Sharpsburg,
and near the Potomac River, vast quantities of arrow-heads, pestles,
skinning-knives, and tomahawks of exquisite workmanship have been
found. Mr. Hebb, one of the oldest inhabitants, remembers distinctly
numerous earth mounds formerly on his farm; but the constant tilling
of the land has obliterated all traces of them, so much so that it would
be impossible for him to determine their exact location.

On the farm of Mr. Lafayette Miller, distant 14 miles west of Sharpsburg,
and adjoining the lands of Mr. Hebb, an abundance of stone implements
have been brought to light. Mr. Miller has a number of them in his
cabinet. These implements were found in the fields, and in some places
they were particularly numerous. Some curiously wrought stones, per-
fectly round in shape, varying from 6 inches to 4 and 3 inches in diam-
eter, and about 2 inches in thickness, have been found from time to
time on this farm. The stones are perfectly flat on both sides and are
polished.

A short distance from this farm, and bordering on the Potomac River,
is the farm of Mr. Samuel Beeler. On this farm were two small stone
mounds, one of them about 12 feet in length and 6 in width. They
were composed of very small stones. One had been opened years ago;
the other was excavated by the writer of this paper. The removal of
the loose stone revealed a grave, which was very ingeniously constructed.
The bottom of the grave was laid with large flat stone; the sides and
ends also composed of the same. The covering was of large, flat stones,
built in the form of the comb roof of a house. In this mound were
found some bones, broken pieces of pottery, and a stone knife, now in
the National Museum.

On the farm of the heirs of the late Jacob Miller, 2 miles south of
Sharpsburg, on a high bluff bordering on the Potomac River, are two
extensive stone mounds, which had been partly explored twenty years
ago, and on a recent examination revealed bones, pottery, flints, ete.
These mounds, as near as I can judge, were about 12 feet in length and
6 feet in height, and were entirely of stone. The interior was con-
structed in the same manner as those on the farm of Mr. Beeler above
mentioned. The bones in these mounds were so much decayed that
they crumbled on being handled. A few years ago some workmen were
quarrying limestone near this mound when they came upon a skeleton
which was buried in an upright position. At the head was a small
vessel of pottery, holding about a quart, which fell to pieces on being
handled.

About half a mile from this point, on the farm of Mr. William Black-
ford, several articles of pottery have been unearthed. Traces of some
798 PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY.

earth mounds are still to be seen, and beautifully finished arrow-heads
are occasionally found.

On the lands of Mr. James Marker, 3 miles southeast of Sharpsburg,
is acave, which tradition says was used both as a dwelling and as a burial
place. This cave is about 20 feet in diameter and 6 feet in height, and
contains two rooms. The outer room has been partially explored. The
opening to the inner room is so small as to be difficult of access. An
examination of the cave last spring disclosed some flat stones, which
were removed; and underneath them a large quantity of ashes, burnt
bones, bead ornaments, arrow-heads, and flints were encountered. A
few years ago a pipe of exquisite workmanship was found in this cave.
It is situated on the banks of Antietam Creek, on a rocky bluff, and
possesess every advantage for defense, accessibility to water, game, and
other means of living. Several years ago a skeleton was found under
a ledge of a rock near this place in a good state of preservation. Ihave
also in my possession a pipe found on the banks of the Antietam near
this cave.

Numerous changes have taken place in the streams and forests where
once roamed the aborigines. The construction of the Chesapeake and
Ohio Canal, which borders on the Potomac, destroyed a great many of
the mounds and earth-works. Along the canal, at a place called Mercer-
ville, 5 miles north of Sharpsburg, is an old, aboriginal burial ground
containing half an acre. Last winter the writer visited this spot and
found numerous pieces of pottery, bones, a few ornaments, and several
stems of pipes. The bodies were buried about 2 feet below the surface.
On an examination of the graves were found ashes and burnt bones,
which led to the belief that cremation was practised by these people.
Large trees were growing on the spot, which indicates plainly that
this was an ancient burial site. The canal passes through a large part
of it.

On the farm of Mr. Jacob McQuilkin, near Martinsburg, W. Va., are
two large mounds, one of stone, which is about 12 feet in height and 20
feet in diameter; this one had been explored. The other mound is of
earth, and is about 6 feet in height and 12 feet in diameter. Several
large oak trees are growing in this mound, probably 40 feet in height and
2 feet in diameter. In the mound were found arrow-heads, fragments of
pottery, some of which were very beautiful, also bones, and a large pes-
tle formed of sandstone, 18 inches in length. These remains are lo-
cated on a high cliff overhanging the Potomac River, commanding a fine
view of the surroundiug country. Around them occur an abundance of
broken pottery and flint chippings. In one place twenty arrow-heads,
all differently formed, were picked up. There can hardly be a doubt that
this point was the lapidary of the aborigines. The arrow-heads found
were of different colored stone as well as of different shapes and sizes.

On the farm of Dr. Whiting, in what is commonly known as “* Whi-

ting’s Neck,” a short distance trom the farm of Mr. McQuilkin, are sev-

-

PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 799

eral large mounds. On the same farm is a large cave, which has been
explored about 50 feet; it contains several rooms. In one of the rooms
there were discovered bones and some arrow-heads. Tradition informs
us that this was one of the dwellings of the aborigines, which seems
plausible, from the numerous flint chippings which are scattered around.

On the farm of Mr. B. F. Harrison, adjoining the farm of Mr. Me-
Quilkin, are numerous stone mounds and some earth-works, which have
all been opened. These mounds, like all the rest described, are located
on the high cliff land overlooking the Potomac River.

The dead were all buried with their heads towards the east, on a high
point of land, and, in almost every instance, near a stream of water.
Their burial places were in some romantic spot commanding a fine view
of the surrounding country. All the mounds excavated by the writer
have been found in just such spots.

SHELL HEAPS NEAR PROVINCETOWN, MASS.
By H.E.CHASE, of Brookline, Mass.

In the report of the Smithsonian Institution for 1880, p. 441, it is
stated that it is the desire of those engaged in collecting material for
publishing a permanent work on archeology to learn the location and
characteristics of all shell heaps, mounds, pueblos, ete., in the country.

Thinking it possible that some of the shejl heaps which were visited
by the author last summer may not be known to these persons, the fol-
lowing description is given of the Indian shell heaps, burying grounds,
etc., in a stretch of country about 50 miles long, from Provincetown,
Cape Cod, to Hyannis Port.

If attention had been solely given to shell heaps and the collection of
Indian implements, no doubt a much better account could be given, for
only a small portion of the route lay along the shore where Indian en-
campments were usually made. On the return from Provincetown,
short excursions were made by small boats east and west from Hyan-
nis Port along the southern shore, and later, a trip to Martha’s Vine-
yard, where a few more places were located about Buzzard’s Bay sta-
tion. After leaving Provincetown, in crossing the fields about a mile
and a half northwest of the Highland light, in North Truro, a chipped
piece of quartz, the size of one’s fist, was picked up with a half dozen
splinters of the quartz lying nearit. These were the first Indian chip-
pings the writer had ever found, but the keeper of the signal station
stated that not far from the spot where the chips were found, close by
High Head, at the east end of East Harbor, there were large Indian
shell heaps. c

This spot, mentioned by Thoreau, is well known to collectors, and
many implements of stone have been found there. In the railroad cuts,
800 PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY,

a short distance south of the North Truro station, there was reported
to be an Indian burying ground. These railroad cuts are through little
hills of modified drift, close to the shore, near two little ponds, and
only a little way from the 115th milestone from Boston. In both these
cuts were many traces of Indian settlements, such as broken and un-
finished arrow and spear heads, scattered shells, chips of quartz, por-
phyry cores, and unworked pebbles of the same stone, together with
bones, some of which were split lengthwise. The layer of earth in
which these occurred varied from 1 to 24 feet below the surface, the
drift containing none except where the bank had washed down and
mixed with the lower soil.

Although there were obtained no human bones here, yet the next
day, at South Truro, the railroad section man in charge at the time the
banks were cut through produced a fine arrow-head, and said that
while digging in one place they found the bones of about three Indians,
and got one good skull, besides a great number of stone chips and
arrow-heads.

The next place where shells and arrow-heads occurred was at Well-
fleet, at a cut a little north of the railroad bridge. In the rich black
soil, about 6 inches below the upper edge of the cut, on both sides of
the track, and in the earth thrown out of a trench in which railroad
sleepers were placed on end to prevent snow drifting in, were found at
least 2 quarts of stone chips and arrow-heads. With a few hours to
give to the search and with one or two shovels to turn over the surface
soil, this spot would very likely prove richer in implements than the
North Truro locality. The latter place is much better known, and
nearly everything has been picked up as fast as it washes out.

A little further on, close by the shore of Wellfleet Harbor, which
puts in here, was found an arrow-head that had probably been shot at
something, as the point was splintered by a direct blow on the tip.

On the bluffs along Wellfleet Harbor and on the plains at Orleans,
off the road which runs south of the Brewster road, many arrow-heads
have been found.

In parts of Brewster and on a little island near the source of Red
River and upon its banks further down many old camps, arrow-making
spots, and shell heaps have also been discovered.

The next day, at Harwich Port, was spent in hunting arrow-heads
near the mouth and in the fields about Allen’s River. No attempt was
made to cross to Trous, the bluffs which lie just across on the west
side of the stream, as it was not then known to be a good place for In-
dian relics. There were found here one hatchet-head, one spear-head,
several arrow-heads, a shell heap containing charcoal and bones broken
in lengths, besides a few scattered shells near the mouth of the stream.
A letter from a person who accompanied this search states that, in the
shell heap found that day, he has recently dug up ten more arrow-heads,
some pieces of stone pots, and bones that look like deer antlers. He

PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 801

visited Trous also and found thirteen arrow-heads, a stone gouge, and a
broken pipe. It is probable that Mr. Josiah Paive, of Harwich Port, has
the best collection of Indian implements on Cape Cod, as many persons
have spoken of his collection.

On the return to Hyannis Port, a methodical search was made for
Indian relics in the vicinity of Barnstable and Yarmouth, all along the
south shore of the cape, from Centreville River to Bass River. With
the addition of a few places learned on the trip to Martha’s Vineyard,
the following list includes all the places seen this summer, where In-
dian camps have been pitched: Two railroad cuts at West Truro, de-
scribed ; one place at Wellfleet; at Harwich Port; along Swan Pond
River; along Bass River; at Port Gammon; along a stream from mill
pond in West Yarmouth ; around Hall’s Creek, at Squaw Island; at
Centreville camp-meeting ground ; along Centreville River; around But-
termilk Bay, the head of Buzzard’s; on shore, just south of the two sta-
tions of Cataumet and Monument.

The west end of Martha’s Vineyard proved to be another good field,
for, near the base of Prospect Hill, in Chilmark, on the northeast slope,
close by a small stream, were found, in a spot where the surface soil
had been removed by floods or by the wind, great numbers of stone
chippings, cores, and partly finished or broken arrow and spear heads,
besides several well-defined circles of stones, blackened on the inside,
which had undoubtedly served as fire-places.

Northeast of Menemsha Pond was one scattered shell-heap, and a few
stone chips. Proceeding aeross Menemsha Bight to the Gay Head clay
cliffs, Mr. Flanders, the boatman, stated that one day, some years ago,
he found over eighty perfect arrow-heads in a bare spot over Squ-
bucket beach, close by the club-house. A boy named Tilton, living
near Prospect Hill, showed a collection of over a quart of perfect arrow-
heads which he had picked up mostly on the plowed fields.

On Cape Cod shells and black earth seem to be found wherever In-
dians have halted long or frequently. This layer of black is usually
from 6 inches to 1 foot below the surface, but in one or two places it
was fully 2 feet deep. Bass River, Centreville River, and Buttermilk
Bay have the greatest shell heaps, and seem to have been settlements
or regular stopping-places. The shells in the heaps are usually broken
fine, and are often spread out thin, although, in one or two places,
heaps occur 1 or 2 feet thick, and covering many square yards.

They are mostly quohoags, conchs, winkles, and clams, with very
few or no scallops. Camps were almost always within easy reach of
shoal salt water furnishing shell-fish, or between a fresh-water pond
and the shore, or along the widest portions of the streams. Mixed
with the stone chips and shells have never been found any substances
of metal, except two small pieces cut in the shape of arrow-heads, which
Professor Putnam, of the Peabody Museum, has determined to be of

_ brass. These were found at Centreville and Buttermilk Bay. The fol-
I]. Mis. 26——51
802 PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY.

lowing is a list of utensils, &c., that were found on the cape, either by
the writer, or by his friends; arrow-heads and spear-heads ; quiver and
arrows that crumbled on exposure; axes, hatchets, and tomahawks of
stone; leaf-shaped implements and skin scrapers; needles; graphite
for marking ; stone pestles and mortars; sinkers; stone-borers, gouges,
and sharpening stones; stone pipes and pipe-stem (or bead); stone
knives, broken stone pots of steatite and pots of clay ; a sort of copper
or brass breastplate, found on Captain Crawford’s farm (Centreville),
buried with a skeleton.

At Bass River, where the arrows were found in the quiver, while
sinking a barrel-well, a man found Indian skeletons in two places,
buried in a sitting or crouching position. With one of these were buried
a stone knife, a spear-point, and arrows, which afterwards were pur-
chased by a storekeeper of the place for a trifling sum. ‘The position
of these buried Indians is the same as that of others described as found
on Cape Cod, Nantucket, and at Mattapoisett, and it seems to have
been the general method before the whites came to these places. The
skull of an Indian girl, probably sixteen to twenty years old, in the
opinion of Professor Putnam, was given to us by some one who found
it buried in a lying position, in an Indian burying-ground at Chilmark.
The position, and presence of nails, very much decayed, but suggestive
of a coffin, lead to the supposition that the burial must have taken place
after the coming of the whites.

At Mashpee and Gay Head are to be seen the mixed descendants of
the Indians, but here you can seldom see a strongly Indian face, for
the negro features predominate, and many of the men when warmed up
by whisky will break out into a real plantation song, thus showing a
talent which their red ancestors are said never to have possessed.

The “History of Massachusetts” by John Warner Barber, contains
more information about Indians on Cape Cod and Martha’s Vineyard
than is to be found in any other book, and a reference to it may be use-
ful in determining the distribution of Indians in these places after set-
tlement by the whites.

REPORT ON EXPLORATIONS IN CENTRAL AMERICA, IN 1881-
By Dr. J. F. BRANSFORD, U.S. N.

VISIT TO COPAN.

Str: I have the honor to make the following report of work done in
Central America in 1881, in obedience to my instructions; first, to de-
termine whether the Rio Copan could be used in the transportation of
the monoliths from the ruins of Copan; second, to find if possible the
source of the jadeite of Costa Rica.

Sailing from New York on December 24, 1881, I arrived at Aspin-
wall January 1, and San José, Guatemala, on the 8th. Next day the trip
“was made by rail from San José to Escuintla. The road runs through
low land, almost perfectly level, for 18 miles, then rises by rather a
sharp grade some 8 or 10 miles more to Escuintla. This town is about
the same distance from the sea as Santa Lucia de Cotzumalquapa,
just where the foot-hills begin, and the whole of this piedmont belt
seems to be rich in antiquities. The ancient inhabitants of Central
America were apparently fond of good scenery, especially when there
might at the same time be enjoyed the advantages of a fertile soil. And
these two conditions are nowhere more happily combined than in the
foot-hills of the Pacific slope of Guatemala. From every coigne of van-
tage the eye may glance over the rich forests to the placid waters of the
Pacific, while on the other hand the hills slope up towards the superb
voleanoes de Agua and Fuego, which seem facing each other, each
grand monarch mountain followed by a long line of retainers.

The soil, which is extremely rich, is, in the neighborhood of Escuintla,
devoted principally to sugar, the coffee plantations appearing at a
greater elevation. The road from Escuintla to Palen, always rising,
winds its way among these plantations, at every turn unfolding a new
beauty in landscape. At one point we were on the edge of a cliff, deep
down below in aravine—a sort of Watkins Glen on a grand scale—the
river from Lake Amatitlan rushed and tumbled. It was near sunset,
the light green of the fields of sugar-cane in the foreground were given
fine effect by the dark forest beyond. The tops of the voleanoes were
clear cut, but lower; ghost-like white clouds in silent succession loomed,
and breaking away floated off seaward. Some fires had been burning
in the lowland woods all day, and the smoke-laden atmosphere took on
purple tints as the red sun slowly sank in the Pacific.

The volcan de Fuego, which was in active eruption in 1880, is rugged
toward the peak, with ravines and patches of bare rock. The volcan

803
804 PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY.

de Agua is apparently wooded to the summit. The latter is easy of as-
cent; the former very difficult; but while I was in the country it was
ascended by an English gentleman, Mr. Alfred P. Maudsley.

The valley of Amatitlan, between Palen and Guatemala City, is a
garden spot of exquisite beauty. Beyond that another long hill took us
up to the table-land of Guatemala, a parched and windy plateau, unin-
teresting, at least during the dry season, except for the mountains in
the distance. One day had changed the climate from tropical to tem-
perate. The direct rays of the sun were hot, but at night, or in the
shade during the day, the temperature was cool and bracing.

The old village of Mixco was in sight before we reached the city; and
on the left of the road, just before entering the gate, we found the plain
covered with mounds for a square mile or more. One learned writer on
Guatemala has described these as ant-hills. }

On my presentation by the American minister to President Barrios,
l1 was kindly received and promptly furnished with letters to the offi-
cials along the route of travel to Copan. These letters were signed by
the President, and secured me every assistance possible on the trip.
Under the strong administration of Barrios I journeyed in perfect se-
curity along the road where annoyance and danger so beset Mr. Stephens
in the olden time.

On the 18th of January I left Guatemala for Copan at midday with
an arriero, and rode as far as San José, on the Zacapa road. The way
was through a barren hill country, some 5,000 feet above the sea. LEver-
green scrub-oaks and pines were the predominating trees. The geologi-
cal formation was volcanic, with tufa and lava showing in the cuts. Just
before reaching the stream at Navajo, 3 miles short of San José, a vein
of obsidian was seen crossing the road-bed, and the sharp-edged frag-
ments of the bright and cutting iztli scattered around doubtless gave
its name to the neighboring village. The road up the steep hill beyond
was paved with blocks of stone, probably the work of colonial times.
At several points along the road are standing in good preservation
staunch monuments of Spanish work in the shape of stone bridges, high
over ravines whose insignificant streams suggest no idea of the furious
torrents of the wet season.

Mr. Stephens* gives a beautiful description of the park-like appear-
ance of the environs of San José. Alas, the glory has departed, and
left rather barren-looking hills surrounding a wretched hamlet, whose
inhabitants live on the travelling public and the trains of mules and
muleteers. I dismounted at the door of mine inn, every bone racking
with fever, tumbled into a hammock, and took a drink of brandy and
twenty grains of quinine. Two stalwart and rather fine-looking young
ladies: kept the establishment, but one was married and the other was
pock-marked. Later a young bride and groom stretched their bed,
consisting of a raw-hide, on the ground. The dogs and hogs shoved

*TI. L. Stephens: Incidents of Travel in Central America, Chiapas, and Yucatan.

‘PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 805

my hammock from side to side in querulous search for a comfortable
resting-place, finally leaving me to the fever and the fleas.

At 5 o’clock next morning we sallied out on a most pleasant road, fol-
lowing the crest of a ridge with valleys falling away on either side.
Near the road the milpas or patches of Indian corn flourished. Far
away on the right were the mountains toward Honduras, and on the
left beyond the valley of the Motagua rose the giant range of the Vera
Paz. About 8 miles from San José we came to the edge of the plateau,
and descended by a zigzag trail, among masses of limestone and blocks
from the overlying basalt, to a tributary of the Motagua. Beyond this
Puente del Monte for many miles the hills were barren. Then the deso-
lation was varied by valleys at intervals, each with its small and miser-
able village. At one of these we stopped and had a good breakfast of
corn-cakes (tortillas), beans, and eggs. After breakfast took a lazy swing
in a hammock until 12 M., and then five hours to Guastatoya, where Mr.
Stephens had his firstexperiencein robber hunting. That night brought
the luxury of a raw-hide bed, until4 A.M., when we startedagain. About
2 miles more and we descended into the callejou of Guastatoya, a pass
for 5 miles through a dismal gorge with steep hills or ravines on each
side, where in the olden time the robber could attack with impunity and
retreat with security, laughing at any attempted pursuit. It is when
riding along such a road in the hour before daybreak, with an old arriero
who at each dark thicket, or sharp turn, or silent cross, recalls a deed
of blood enacted here in other days, that one feels inclined to pardon
certain little irregularities so long as a strong government keeps its hand
at the throat of the robber.

At half past 9 we reached Casaguastlan, and, riding up to the best-
looking house in the village, were politely received by a mestizo lady.
A few minutes later, hearing the appellation doctor from my arriero,
she marched me right in to see her hidalgo who was suffering with liver
and spleen. Result, a superb breakfast of beans, eggs, chicken, rice,
and tortillas.

At dark we entered the miserable village of Hiote, and were directed
to a stopping-place where, in answer to inquiries, we were assured that
there was no bed, no supper, no feed for the mules, but there was a shed
where my hammock might be swung among pigs and dogs and squall-
ing brats. The arriero then started out to find a bundle of fodder at
one house, an egg at another, and, strange to say, some coffee at a third.
Before day next morning a girl started a fire and made coffee. Her
beau crawled out from somewhere looking disgusted and miserable, and
stood around rubbing his eyes to see that there was no flirting with the
stranger.

At 9.30 a. m. on this the 21stof January we arrived at Zacapa. The
road during the morning had been along the valley of the Motagua, past
more frequent and larger villages. Just before entering the town we
crossed the Rio Zacapa, a stream of interest to me, as it has the Rio
806 PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY,

Copan for a tributary. The river at that time was some 40 yards wide
and 6 inches deep, where it goes in rapids over abar at the ford. Above
and below, the width and depth are greater. After passing some strong
rapids it empties into the Motagua, about 3 miles lower. Some 10 or 12
miles from Zacapa, Gualan is situated on the Motagua, at the head of
navigation for boats of large size.

At Zacapa I was kindly received by Mr. Thomas Payne, an English
merchant, who assisted me in securing mules and a guide for Copan.
We started early next morning and kept up the river, leaving the road
to Chiquimula, and following a trail which gradually ascended some
1,500 feet to a peak overlooking the valley of Zacapa on one hand, and
on the other giving a fine view of the more distant Chiquimula. At the
foot of this hill, toward the latter town, was the junction of the rivers
Chiquimula and Jocotan, forming the Rio Zacapa. Turning and following
the ridgein a northeasterly direction for awhile we changed our course
again, and, descending, came to the bank of the Rio Jocotan at the foot
of the rapids opposite the Peligro Negro. The latter, a cliff, is the end
of the mountain which separates the valleys of Jocotan and Chiquimula.
It is a sheer wall of rock between 2,000 and 3,000 feet high, and well
deserves the name Black Danger. At this point my hope of utilizing
the river for transportation of the Copan statues was at once dispelled.
For 2 miles it rushes through a narrow and tortuous channel which it
has cut in the rock, and the lightest canoe could not have passed at the
time of my visit.

It is reported that occasionally during the wet season canoes pass
successfully, but I doubt whether even then they can make the passage
loaded. The rugged character of the hills forces the trail down to the
bank here, and we had to follow the river some 4 or 5 miles until clear
of the pass, then began to ascend again. These old Indian trails were
famous for following the crest of the ridge, and frequently there was
barely room for our sure-footed mules, the ground sometimes falling
away abruptly on both sides. At midday we were well above the clouds.
At lower points the gusts of wind would occasionally bring up a light
cloud, and for a few minutes we would be enveloped in fog and misty
rain. We were some 5,000 feet above the village and valley of Jocotan
on the opposite side of the river. From that point of view it was the
loveliest valley I had ever seen—a garden of milpas or patches of Indian
corn and sugar-cane, and in some places coffee, on the hills. Cultivated
land could be seen to the very mountain top wherever a bit of ground had
been found not too steep for an Indian to stand on. This region gets
much of the moisture borne on the winds which are turned away from
Zacapa by the mountains northeast of that town. During the dry season
the people of Zacapa, stifling in heat and dust, can look up and see the
crest of the ridge veiled ix mist, while cool showers occasionally come
part of the way down the hills and then fade away in the face of the
brazen valley.

-PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 807

On the hills we were crossing there were scattered superb, tall pines,
apparently the yellow pine of the United States, and a great portion of
the land was clothed in fine grass, which was supporting good cattle.
Winding our way down again we came, at dusk, to a village of ten or
fifteen houses perched half way up the mountain-side and rejoicing in
the name of Mataxano. An Indian dialect was spoken by the inhabit-
ants, but a man was found who understood Spanish. After visiting
half the houses and considerable negotiation permission was obtained
to swing my hammock under a shed, where I shivered in the raw, north-
east wind all night. We had three eggs and a tortilla for supper and
the same for breakfast next morning. LHarly in the morning we de-
scended by a steep and dangerous trail to the river at the pass between
Jocotan and Copan. Here again was a wild rush of water for 2 or
3 miles through a narrow and tortuous channel with immense bowl-
ders strewn along its course. The river, here known as the Copan,
flows through a narrow valley of more fertile land. Vegetation was
richer; in some places irrigation was practised, and some fine cattle were
noticed. In the afternoon we crossed a slight ridge clothed in pines
and descended to the village of Copan.

The night was spent in the village, and next morning, January 24,
the ruins one mile east were visited. My instructions to determine
whether the Copan River could be used for transportation had been car-
ried out, and then it was my duty to return to San José and catch the
steamer of the 4th of February for Costa Rica, if possible. I therefore
concluded to spend only one day here walking around the ruins, and by
an occasional critical comparison of some object with the representa-
tion given in incidents of travel in Central America, Chiapas, and Yuca-
tan, testing the work done by Stephens and Catherwood.

Along the road from the village to the ruins, antiquities are scattered
and the dense forest on either side is without doubt the keeper of great
archeological treasure. Once at the village of Copan any native will
give the locality of the ruins, and once there, no guide is needed but
Stephens. The thoroughness of the work done by Stephens and Cather-
wood has been confirmed by subsequent visitors and is a lasting rebuke
to the imperfect methods of most investigators. There is one curious
mistake, made, probably in copying notes—Stephens’ plan of the ruins
is turned around, and the north side is marked south. With the excep-
tion of these two errors the work of description and illustration is ad-
mirable.

Passing the statue O we struck the temple at the northwest corner.
Where we ascended, near D, the steps were 16 inches high and 17 wide,
in blocks of stone. We descended into the court at U. In the north-
west corner were two vases in the shape of human heads, ornamented
fantastically, and with bowis 9 inches in diameter and 6 inches deep.
These are probably the heads which Stephens says were turned over and
partially buried. The colossal head, figured on page 143, was in the
808 - PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY.

saine position leaning against a tree, and after thirty-two years there
was very little change in the relative size of tree and head. After ex-
amining the vewtana and ascending the wall overlooking the river, we
pursued the passage V and returned by A. The drawing of the altar
is excellent. I made a close examination of the hieroglyph in the upper
right-hand corner of the side represented at page 141, and found the
drawing exact except that there are thirteen knobs instead of the
twelve given by Catherwood. Again, the characteristic prominence of
the glabella, whence the nose and forehead sloped, forming an obtuse
angle, is not sufficiently marked in the drawings. In other instances the
minor details were hardly worked out with sufficient minuteness, a de-
fect which was probably unavoidable in dealing with such a mass of
minute and intricate ornamentation. The bold freedom of the sculp-
ture is its most striking feature, and in some cases the undercutting
leaves the ornamentation free, and several inches from the mass. The
legs of some of the large figures are nearly free. I was prepared to see
good work because of my faith in Stephens, but the boldness of it was
beyond my expectation, and had to be seen to be appreciated. The
figures in some places had been mutilated. The lip of that shown on
page 136 had been broken and the chin broken off. The face looks out
from a snake’s mouth. About 60 feet northwest of B was the head of a
large serpent, lying with other fragments at the foot of the slanting wall.
In front of it, lying on the ground, was a tablet in four sections. The
figure on it is looking over the right shoulder towards the head of the
serpent. In the right hand is something spherical, possibly a head,
which is apparently offered to the serpent. There were two other tab-
lets similar to this, the three with the serpent head forming a square.
The figure on the tablet is seated cross-legged, with a plumed turban, a
mask, a necklace suspending a gorget, and a belt fastened in front with
a circular gorget.

The statue C is 12 feet high, 4 across the front and 3 feet thick.
Back of E, half way up the side of the pyramid—if it may so be called
—the stones were in position and cut to form a smooth incline, the sur-
face of which is covered with hieroglyphs.

We readily found all the large statues mentioned by Stephens except
that at S, shown opposite page 151. Im 1839 it was buried nearly out
of sight, and I had no time to makea thorough search. In the deep
cuttings on some of the statues were still remains of red paint. This
was in positions protected from sun and rain, and in such a climate
will probably last indefinitely.

About a mile west of the temple, in the village of Copan, is a mound
some 40 feet high, at the west base of which are two altars with glyphs,
&e. One of them has figures similar to those on the altar at A. On
the south side is a double row of glyphs in the middle, with two hu-
man figures on each side facing in. On both east and west sides are
four figures in profile sitting cross-legged and facing south, apparently

PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 809

followers of those first described. The north side has a perpendicular
tow of glyphs, on each side of which is one figure sitting facing in
and offering something having the appearance of a head, just as on the
tablets in front of the serpent’s head atthe temple. These figures had
the characteristic large noses and retreating foreheads, with prominent
glabelle. Their ornaments are necklaces, cuff-like bracelets and ank-
lets, and profuse plumes in the turban-like headdresses. Those on the
sides have each in his‘hand something like a sheaf of wheat. On the
top of the altar are other figures and hieroglyphs.

The ruins were visited by Mr. Alfred P. Maudsley in 1881. After
photographing many of the objects, he testified to the excellence of the
work of Stephens and Catherwood. Iam sure that work will not be.
improved on until a party with apparatus for photographing and tak-
ing casts goes there to stay at least two months. Such a party, by in-
telligent exploration of the neighboring forest as well as the ground
already known, might secure an enormous amount of material in a
shape to be forever safe. If the hieroglyphs of Central America are
ever to be deciphered it is of the utmost importance that every avail-
able specimen should be photographed and cast before the hand of igno-
rance ortime renders their correct representation impossible. Here are
the walls of a pyramid covered with inscriptions, altars, and statues with
human figures and hieroglyphs, illustration and text, and the study of
the one must assist in unraveling the mysteries of the other. Some of
the monoliths have fallen in the last thirty years; others have been
mutilated by the ignorant native, who, with a careless swing of his
machete, knocks the nose off a statue to see if it breaks easily.

The road can be made sufficiently good for carts to Jocotan, thence to
Chiquimula, Zacapa, and Gualan. At the last place we meet large
bonyos and transportation to the sea.

According to Mr. McGee, of San José, who has been for years engaged
in hauling in this country, a cart will carry one ton, a wagon two.
Therefore one of the large statues 12 by 4 by 3 feet cut into two pieces
might be transported on wagons, and cut into four, on carts. Two of
the finest statues are fallen, one of which is broken just in half.

From Copan to Izabal $3 is the hire of a pack-mule carrying 200
pounds. From Izabal there is asmall steamer which connects with the
New Orleans line at Livingstone. Again, at less expense the objects
might be transported by pack-mules to Gualan, and there embarked for
the sea. Thus might be removed a large number of small objects,
blocks on which are hieroglyphs, &c.

By using some discretion a camp might be selected near Copan, where
_@ party could safely, if not comfortably, spend the months of February,
March, and April.

The land in the valley seemed fertile, and a field of fine tobacco ex-
tended up to the west wall of the temple. Fruit was scarce, and pines
grew close down to the valley. The last night of my stay 1 awoke in
810 PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY.

the wee small hours, chilled through. The northeast wind bore a cold
mist, almost a drizzling rain. After dressing I wrapped myself in a
blanket and again turned into my thick canvas hammock, only to
shiver until daybreak. We left Copan early, and ‘ascending the ridge,
looked back to see the valley a lake of fog, above the surface of which
the temple and the mound in the village rose like islands. This ridge
is of the same rock as the statues, a soft, whitish trachyte, which hardens
on exposure to air and sun. It may have been worked easily with flint
implements.

After passing the Honduras line we left the valley, and turned to
the right, ascending by a zig-zag trail. Near the crest of the ridge we
struck the road, so-called, between Jocotan and Gualan, and kept it
through the pass and down the other side. The pines on the south side
became more lofty and scattered until near the top they were almost as
thin as on a lawn, the shade not being dense enough to interfere with a
rich growth of grass. Suddenly this vegetation gave way to dense
forest matted with creepers. In place of the pines were innumerable
varieties of tropical and semi-tropical trees, their leaves dripping with
water from the mist. The road was miry, and the banks were graced
with ferns. We had crossed the crest, and were seeing the effects of
the moisture-laden northeast “ trades.”

Along the road at short intervals we met parties of Indians carrying
heavy loads of corn or other merchandise on their backs, with hands
across their foreheads, the loads resting on their hips. Down hilloron
the level they go in a shambling trot, and make better time over the
mountain roads than the mules do. Over a great part of the republic
the mail is carried by Indians on foot. I was assured that by following
more difficult but shorter trails, they made the trip from Copan to Za-
capa inaday. Ittook me a day and a half and Mr. Stephens three and
a half.

About 10 o’clock the morning after leaving Copan we reached the
crest of the ridge east of Zacapa. As usual it was enveloped in thick
mist, almost arain. The trees were giant pines, draped in gray moss,
and ferns were abundant. Descending a little we came to the lower
edge of the canopy of mist, and looking out from under this curtain, we
had the valleys of the Motagua and Zacapa in full view. Beyond was
the great range of the Vera Paz in blue with strata of white clouds
along the sides. Around us, all save the moss was green, and the ferns
were dripping with moisture, while we looked through the vistas of the
pines, with their festoons and streamers, at the scorched and glittering
valley below. We were standing under the edge of the clouds, and less
than 5 miles away the vegetation was parched and the leaves were gray
with dust.

I was in the City of Guatemala on the evening of the 29th, and spent
next day there. The collection of antiquities in the Museo Nacional was
insignificant. I noticed the two tripods of the Luna ware described

PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. sll

in Archeological Researches in Nicaragua;* there was no indication of
their origin.

Mr. Edwin Rockstroh, professor in the Institute Nacional, was work-
ing in Indian philology with Berendt at the time of his death, and is prose-
cuting studies from which much may be expected by anthropologists. In
1881 he made a trip through the Peten and into the hitherto unexplored
country of the Lacandones. He found them speaking a dialect of the
Maya, and his Maya interpreter from Peten had no difficulty in under-
standing their language. Mr. Rockstroh discovered some ruins which he
called Menché, which were afterward visited by Mr. Maudsley. M.
Charnay found the latter there. The ecstatic Frenchman was in rap-
tures, and dubbed poor Menché ‘ Lorillard City.”

Mr. Rockstroh told me the Lacandones, or rather more than half of
them, had the peculiar profile of Copan and Palenque—large nose, prom-
inent glabella, and retreating forehead. This gentleman presented for the
Smithsonian a fine specimen of pavo real, whose habitat he informed
me is between the Motagua and Zucatan, in the Vera Paz and Peten.

The afternoon of February 1 I rode 30 miles, from the Escuintla to
the princely estate of Don Manuel Herrera, Pantaleone, and next
morning, in company with my host, proceeded some 3 miles farther, to
Santa Lucia. Itis northwest of Escuintla, about the same distance from
the sea, and in aregion of similar topography. We found that the best of
the objects mentioned by Habel had been removed to Berlin. Still several
remained on and around a low mound. At one point were yet to be
seen, in situ, blocks of stone forming steps up the side of the mound.
These were 6 inches high and 18 inches wide. Most of the sculptures
were in hard black lava. No. 9t was in granite, as were two or three
blocks inthe steps. I was informed that there was no granitic forma-
tion in this neighborhood.

The drawings of Habel were found to be good representations of the
objects remaining. The drawing of No. 7 was excellent. Nos. 10 and
11 were good; 16 and 17 well drawn, except that details were not suf-
ficiently worked out. No. 18 was not well drawn. These sculptures
are in very low relief.

Returning to Pantaleone, I examined the figures which are mounted
on the wall around the fountain. Facing the house on the opposite
side of the fountain is one in hard, black basalt, 50 inches high, 43
inches wide, and 9 thick. It is a head with turban and plumes, the
whole overtopped by a crest, which arches over to the front and ends
in a fringe of tassels. There were large earrings; a gorget was sus-
pended under the chin by a necklace. A fillet was on the brow at the
edge of the turban. On the turban was a ribbon knotted in front, and
above this a mask or ornament in shape of a face. Above were broad

*Archeological Researches in Nicaragua; Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge,
No. 383, page 20.
+ Habel.
812 PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY.

plumes, which looked like leaves. The face was the best work of art
that I have seen by the ancient Americans, nor have I met with any
specimen represented in the books to equal it. There was nothing con-
ventional; the features were regular and well cut; the expression grave,
dignified, regal.

One of the figures on the left had the beardlike ornament discussed by
Habel.* It seemed not a beard, but a strap passed under the chin to
hold on the head-dress. Next was the head of a woman, with the eye-
ball hanging out of the socket on the cheek. The forehead was wrinkled
and the face expressed acute pain. Next aman with both eyes hang-
ing out. Here the expression was of sadness mixed with pain, as of one
recently blind. Each face was distinctivély individual, but all with
high cheek bones, wrinkled brow, and stern expression. The woman
had a small cap on one side of the head; the men woreturbans. They
all originally had trunnions behind the neck for insertion into a wall.
They were found by the mayor domoin some of his agricultural operations.

As remarked before, this belt of territory, at the foot of the western
slope of the Guatemala Mountains, is extremely fertile; is almost covered
with forest, and the objects at Santa Lucia, Pantaleone, and many
other places reported near Escuintla indicate a rich field, awaiting the
investigations of the archeologist.

The day after my arrival in Guatemala, Colonel Stewart, the American
consul, presented some specimens of pottery, which were obtained from
a mound about a mile and a half from San José, that was cut by the rail-
road. The specimens consist of No. 59380, a vase nearly complete, and
the fragments numbered 59381, 59382, 59383, 59384, 59385, 59386, 59387.
There is similarity in the biscuit and the degree of burning of the objects,
and in certain features of ornamentation. The vase is 12 inches high and
13 across the top. The bowl only occupies about two-thirds of its depth.
On each side is an ear, or handle, on the lower part of which is a button
or flower-like form with a depression in the center. On the front of the
vase is a rosette or bow in relief, the ends of which are free. This also
has the button, the central depression in this case being filled by a flat-
tened ball. The color is buff, with red bands and circles, and on each
side is a crescent in red.

No. 59382 is a head, originally an ornament on a large vessel. The
collector probably broke this off and saved it as curious. The face is of
the type of many of the pottery figures here in the collection from Mex-
ico. The head-dress is a coronet, with plumes above; the earrings of
a flower form, shaped like the curved corolla of certain lilies; a banded
necklace suspending a flower-shaped gorget, and an ornament sus-
pended in the nose or upper lip graced this belle. The fragments are
ornaments, probably of the same vessel; they are evidently representa-
tions of flowers.

The discovery of this Mexican pottery makes one more link in the cor-

* Habel.

PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 813

roborative evidence furnished by archeology in support of the tradi-
tions of a migration along this coast from the valley of Mexico toward
Nicaragua—a migration which was so clearly traced by Dr. C. H. Berendt
in his philological investigations. R

VISIT TO COSTA RICA.

We reached Punta Arenas, Costa Rica, February 16, and on the
morning of the 19th embarked on a steam-launch bound up the Gulf of
Nicoya. We got to the head of the gulf at 3 p. m., and our destination,
Bolson, at 6.30 p.m. This place, the port of Santa Cruz, is on a creek
which empties into the Tempisque. The little steamer arrived at high
tide, and had a comfortable bed of mud in which to le while waiting
for the next rise.

From Bolson, with a man and three horses, the journey to Nicoya

was made in seven hours. Found it the same dead Spanish town seen
in 1877. A long church at one side of the plaza and rectangular streets,
with eight or nine hundred inhabitants of all grades, from the pure
Spaniard to the pure Indian. It is a fertile valley, with hills 500 to 800
feet high around it. Uere was one of the most important towns
found in Central America by the conquerors, and if we may judge
by the relics with which the ground is sown in every direction we are
inclined to credit the stories related by the old chroniclers of dense
masses of population that owed allegiance to the cazique of Nicoya.
- Riding up to the house at which I stopped in 1877, everything seemed
as though I had left it but yesterday. The same old blacksmith-shop,
and apparently the same old gray horse waiting to be shod. I had the
good fortune to secure a room and a raw-hide bed, and madame engaged
to feed me. Hernandez reports that no strangers have been here hunt-
ing for antiquities since my visit. And as the neighbors drop in one
by one I have accounts of huacas enough to keep me at work for years.
At Bolson similar reports were made, and subsequent investigations
proved that there was no exaggeration in the accounts.

After two days spent in looking around and settling down, I rode
with the padre, the alcalde, and jefe politico to some huacas at Pipal
and Ochote, some 4 or 5 miles from Nicoya. There were several slightly
raised mounds of loose stones, below which were the relics in shape
of human bones, shards, and celts. The padre had made excavations
in one or two places, but had not met with conspicuous success in ob-
taining entire vessels. The ground was of tough clay, and during the
dry season was almost like brick; it was, therefore, rare luck for an
object to escape the violence of the blows necessary in digging.

That night, headache and fever; next day, quinine and rest.

The 27th, with the padre and jefe, rode to Las Huacas, where rich
fields were reported. The road lay along the valley as far as Matina,
whence it began to rise, crossing one or two slight ridges and finally
mounting by a steep zigzag some 2,000 feet to the plateau of Las
814 PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY.

Huacas. From near Matina to and beyond Las Huacas are cuts and
other remains of an old road supposed to antedate the conquest.
Along its route cane and pita grows, marking its trail through forests,
up and down hill, in straight lines, instead of the zigzag for easier
grades, as would have been the case with Spanish roads. This road
was like those in the mountains of Guatemala in their propensity to
follow the crest of the ridge.

The next morning three men were set to work excavating at a point
on the road to Matina, about 200 yards from the house of Angela
Carrillo, where irregular piles of stones, forming elevations of 2 feet in
height indicated huacas. Near the surface there were many fragments
of metates of great variety and rollers. At this point hundreds of metates
appeared to have been broken, and it seemed incredible that they
should have been the results of accidental breakage, but rather as if in
time of war sudden flight had become necessary and articles too heavy
for easy transportation had here been rendered unfit for the enemy’s
use. Near the surface, and mixed with the stones, were fragments of
the class attributed to the Chorategas in a paper on Nicaragua.* Lower
were fragments of red painted pottery. At 51 inches depth the hand-
some argillite gorget No. 59849 was found, in the mouth of a red vase,
No. 59811. The body of the vase was in fragments ; it was apparently
a water jar. The end of the gorget showed above the mouth. About
2 feet away and 19 inches lower was found No. 59850, which unfortunately
was badly broken by the Macana. On a level with that and within 2
feet was the celt No. —~—. The small vessels Nos. 59827, 59828, 59829
were found in the earth above the gorgets, and were probably associated
with them in origin.

Among a great number of shards there were none of Luna ware.t

About a mile from Carrillo’s, near the house of Mayorga, were many
large huacas on the border of the old roadway.

That evening we returned to Nicoya, and the next few days were
spent in hunting and interviewing old Indians, always with eyes and
ears open for the green stone mine. There was an old man named Es-
piritu, living near Nicoya, of much shrewdness and native intellect. He
took a great deal of interest in antiquities and questions concerning
the old Indians. He reported that many of the old graves were seven
or eight varas deep. A Frenchman who had spent several years in
Chiriqui told me that the huwacas were similar to those observed near
Nicoya. Of course, the only possible way of discovering the source of
the jadeite was by searching the ravines and cuts while hunting or
riding, or by questioning the old Indian hunters and rubber-men.
Many of these men become interested in what they saw I considered
80 important, and some later traveler may reap the reward in finding
a guide to the jadeite mine.

No. 383, p. 80.
t Archeological Researches in Nicaragua, p. 80.

PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 815

The padre and I made a trip to Santa Cruz on the 3d of March, re-
turning next day. We heard great accounts of antiquities on the Pacific
coast, and one small figure No. —— was obtained by purchase. One
of the men who worked for me at Las Huacas brought Nos. —— :
which he reported that he obtained working at the same place. Nos.
were lying together beside a skull, and were, presumably,
worn as a necklace.

With a party of about adozen men the padre and I left Nicoya on the
morning of the 6th, and following the road to Matina for awhile, turned
to the right to Matambu, thence over a ridge into the valley of the No-
sara, and camped on that stream at a place called Las Canillas, about
a mile beyond the castia of Blas Lopez. This man Lopez had a great
reputation for knowledge of the antiquities of the region, but was a
very suspicious and surly Indian, and managed to keep to himself all
that he knew of the huacas. Close by a mango tree, near our camp,
some partial excavations had been made, and in one of them we com-
menced work. The first plateau, above the low grounds of the river,
was some 25 feet above low water. In the edge of this the burials had
been made, and the top of the grave covered to a depth of 3 feet with
stones from the river-bed, the pile forming a slight mound now, after
ages of settling, about 2 feet above the surface of the plateau. These
resembled some graves seen on the Madera end of Ometepec.* The clay
here was tough, but not so hard as at Las Huacas, as it contained more
vegetable matter and was protected in the shade of the forest. In the
surface soil and among the stones were fragments of pottery. Celt No.
59875 was 3 feet below the top of the mound, with the little vessel, No.
59883, near it. In a neighboring excavation was found a human skele-
ton and a celt, No. 59880. A mound larger than the others was some
distance back of the edge of the plateau.

Discouraged by such poor results for two days of work, we trans-
ferred our camp some 3 miles further up the stream. Here in a higher
plateau on the left side of the river similar piles of stones, hardly
deserving the name of mounds, were seen onall sides. We were in the
finest forest I had ever seen. Apparently not one of the magnificent
trees in this valley had been cut since the conquest, except where for
an acre or so in two places clearings had been made. Theundergrowth
was scanty, while high overhead there was a dense canopy supported
by superb columns. The rays of the sun touched the ground at rare in-
tervals, while at night a star here and there peeped through the foliage.
Along the river innumerable frogs made night hideous with their croak-
ing. Then owls and many night-birds of discordant note, reenforcing
the howling monkeys, joined forces in the early night to convince the
trembling greenhorn that all the ferocious beasts of the earth were as-
sembled to sup on him. The mosquitoes, which were vicious the first
two hours, suddenly disappeared, and the forest quieted down. The

*Archexological Researches in Nicaragua, p. 44.

ee

816 PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY.

padre led off, and was followed by first one Indian and then another,
with cuentas tales, after the style of those of the Arabian Nights, to
amuse children. Wrapped in their blankets, one by one they fell aleep
as the words of the last yarn died away in drowsy tones. Don An-
tonio freshened the fire and peered into the darkness to see whether a
tiger were lurking around, then hugging close his gun and machete,
sought repose. About midnight I awoke. The fire had died out, but
it was not entirely safe to stir around for wood; there was the possi-
bility of a tiger and the probability of a shot from Don Antonio. So I
kept quiet, and began to feel the awful stillness of a tropical night in
the forest; then from far away came the sound of a solemn moan,
nearer and nearer, till with a sigh and a rustling of leaves a breath of
wind passed overhead, and left the night as silent as before.

Again we were doomed to bad luck. We worked two days at this
place carrying the excavation to a depth of 6 feet with miserable results
so far as securing specimens was concerned, and as there seemed nothing
peculiar in the style of burial, as there was nothing more to eat less than
half a day’s journey away, we gave up the job as unprofitable.

A few days later I made a trip to Punta Arenas, via Bolson, and on
the 15th took passage in a canoe from Punta Arenas for Puerto Jesus,
Among the many delightful modes of traveling in Central America, the
voyage in the dug-out deserves remembrance. There is no room to
stretch one’s legs under the most favorable circumstances, while on
this occasion the boat was loaded, and I had to eat, sleep, and be as
comfortable as I might for two days and a night on thetop of two boxes
that were noteven. Thesecond day we were becalmed at midday in the
middle of the gulf, with not even a fleecy cloud between us and the sun.
Then in the afternoon a stormy breeze sprang up and we were driven in
on the rocky coast of Chira and had to drop our anchor, a large stone, to
keep from going ashore. There we lay within 20 feet of the rocks bob-
bing and bouncing around so we could hardly sit up, for six or eight
hours, till the weather moderated. About midnight, the second night
we reached Puerto Jesus, the port of Nicoya, at the head of an estero,
which can only be navigated by canoes at high tide. The rest of the
night was spent ona raw-hide stretched on the ground, with musquitoes
for company. Next morning on a hired mule some 12 or 15 miles to
Nicoya.

The neighborhood of Santana was visited on the 18th. There was no
lack of huacas as indicated by the low mounds scattered over the country.
On the northern slope of the ridge between Nicoya and Santana there
is a round top-hill, from which is a fine view over towards the Tem-
pisque and the head of the gulf to the line of volcanoes in the distance.
On this hill-top the huacas were marked by large stones, under which
the relics were found at a depth of 3 to 5 feet. The burials in the val-
ley seemed similar to those at Las Huacas and Las Carrillos.

Sunday, the 19th, was the feast day of the patron saint of the barrio

j
P
j
j
7
a
q
h
By
PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 817

of Las Huacas, and I visited it, arriving before sunset. There were sixty
or seventy natives present, the guests of the family of Carrillo, who fed
them well and furnished wine of the voyal palm asa beverage. Dancing
and singing were kept up to a late hour, the padre as usual contribu-
ting his share towards the merry-making.

Next morning the padre and I with two men started on the trail
used by rubber-men between Las Huacas and the Rio Oro. <A horse
had never been over this trail, and it required an expert guide to follow
it. The padre and I were mounted, and were preceded by the men who
trimmed a way for us with their machetes. For the first two hours
we were on the plateau of Las Huacas between 2,000 and 3,000 feet
above the sea. In the bed of a stream called Salto de los Perros, where
it was crossed by the trail, there was a bowlder of hard basalt nearly 2
feet in diameter, on one side of which there were eight parallel grooves
up and down, the widest and deepest of which was just of the width of
an ordinary celt. The incline of this side was about 75°. I repeatedly
noticed celts which had apparently been sharpened after use, and believe
that this was a grindstone for that purpose.

From the edge of the plateau there was a steep break to the small
Rio Medio, some 1,500 or more feet below. Off to the right there was
a sheer wall over the edge of which poured a small stream. The In-
dians claim 3,000 feet for this fall, and it apparently was several hun-
dred, the water breaking into mist towards the bottom. We descended
along the edge of ridge, dismounted, and the poor horses slid a good
part of the way on their haunches, one man leading and another driving.
After reaching the stream we kept the bed of it; most of the way the
horses were led, and slipped and stumbled over the bowlders as best
they might. Occasionally short cuts were taken across bends, which
were particularly enjoyed by me. Inthe morning while trying to ascend
a steep bank my horse fell back and rolled over into the stream below.
The stirrups were narrow and I could not free one foot, and in the
struggle my foot was hurt so that I could not wear a shoe; so when in
the afternoon I had to walk through these woods without a shoe, travel-
ling was anything but pleasant. At last, late in the afternoon, the guide
stopped at a camping ground after the most terrible trip in my expe-
rience. In the bed of this river Medio, a tributary of the Oro, black
basalt formed the rock with veins of quartz. Right in our camp were
killed an otter, a pavon, and two pavos. There were tracks of deer,
tapir, and tigers. Below the camp green quartz appeared in the rock
of the bed of the stream. During the day fragments of pottery were
noticed several times where slight washes had occurred, or in the banks
of ravines. My couch was of palm branchés on the solid rock. About
la. m. next morning I was awakened by the swaying or horizontal
motion of what I supposed a solid bedstead; the trees were waving in
that not unusual occurrence, an earthquake. An hour and a half later

there was another shock.
H. Mis. 26 52

818 PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY.

At 6.30 a. M. we started again, and in two hours of more pleasant
travel reached the Rio Oro at the mouth of the Rio Medio, where we
breakfasted in style on pavo and camerones. Between noon and 5 p.
m. the descent of the Oro was made to the head of tide-water, within a
mile of the sea.

The valley of the Rio Oro was narrow, with hills or mountains close
up on either side. As with all these streams during the dry season, the
water occupied but little of the broad bed, and we had rather a good
roadway and excellent sites for camps, the banks furnishing grass for
the horses.

The tide was low enough at 10 o’clock on the 22d, and we went to the
mouth of the river. On the beach were a few pebbles of argillite as the
nearest approach to jadeite. I had made the trip across the peninsula
of Nicoya, carefully examining the rock at every opportunity, follow-
ing the bed of the stream almost continuously from the divide to the
sea, only to be disappointed once more.

A guide from Nicoya, who was to pilot us from this point, arrived
about noon, but as the route lay for some distance mostly along the
beach, we were constrained to return to our camp and pass another
night there. A start was made at 6.15; at half past 11 we arrived
at the Rio Buena Vista, some 2 miles above its mouth. The road was
along the beach most of the way, and at several places we passed snug
little harbors like that at San Juan del Sur Nicaragua. While the
horses were resting, I took the guide and, wading down the river or
scrambling through the thickets for about a mile, reached a point
about 40 yards from the river where was a bank some 7 feet high, 40
yards long, and 20 wide, formed apparently almost entirely of fragments
of red-painted pottery of large and small vessels. This was in a man-
grove swamp, and the water at high tide came up to the foot of the bank.
Ti looked as if thousands of vessels had been collected here and deliber-
ately broken. No shelis were mixed with the fragments, but most prob-
ably they were relics of repeated encampments here during the dry
season for people from inland who came to feast on fish, turtle, We.

We went a few miles up the Buena Vista and camped for the night,
that is, we cut some palm leaves on which our blankets were spread, and
we considered ourselves in camp. We had not killed any game since
the morning before, and our commissary stores were running quite low.
Sardines and the tender buds of a small variety of palm made our din-
ner. Next morning a small allowance of the same luxuries, and we
started on a forced march for Nicoya and something to eat. At noon
we stopped on a small stream for lunch, my portion of which consisted
of half a sardine and a palm bud. The trail all day lay over rocky hills
where the vegetation showed that the soil was unusually poor for that
country. Late in the afternoon we reached the small collection of
houses at Lazartito, within 10 miles of Nicoya, where was the first hut
we had seen since leaving Las Huacas.

PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 819

As usual after such a trip I was ill for a day or two with fever and
dysentery, but after resting Saturday was in condition to take the saddle
again at 2 P.M. on Sunday for Bolson and Punta Arenas.

Early on the morning of March 29, I was called for my trip to San
José. Iwas ina room on the second floor of the hotel at Punta Arenas,
sitting on the edge of my cot when the room began to rock like a boat
ina sea-way. The tiles on the roof rattled and danced overhead, and
outside the topsof the trees lashed the air asif shaken by a giant hand;
the chickens cackled, and women rushed screaming into the streets. It
was the heaviest earthquake of my experience, and I in an upstairs
room with the door locked; but in a frame house built with an eye to
resisting just such strains there was little danger of accident.

The road was along the beach for 8 or 10 miles, then struck inland and
began to ascend. By much labor on my lazy mule, I made more than
half the distance, and slept at Atena. A ride of three hours next morn-
ing took me to Alajuela, a town at the western end of the valley of
San José, from which a railroad passing through the principal towns
extends eastward to Cartago. The valley is some 4,000 feet above the
sea, and surrounded by mountains rising several thousand more, the
peak - being feet in elevation. This is one of the finest coffee-
growing regions in the world, and the superb plantations, with here and
there a town or village, and in every direction a background of mount-
ain range or volcanic peak, make up landscapes as fair to view as any
beneath the sun.

On my arrival at San José Iwas met by Mr. Minor C. Keith, a young
American, who had been in Costa Rica some ten years, and who had by
pluck and perseverance at last completed a railroad from Port Limon
on the Atlantic to a point within 25 miles of the capital. The inter-
vening distance was covered by a cart road which he was then finishing.
These gave a continuous line from San José to the sea with much cut-
ting, and I accepted Mr. Keith’s invitation to accompany him over the
roads.

One of the ministers, Mr. Sanez, who, in the absence of the President,
was in charge, received ne most kindly, gave directions for facilitating
my work, and promised permission for the jefe politico of Nicoya to ac-
company me for one month on my explorations. I was also introduced
_ to Don Leon Fernandez, who wasin charge of the Government archives
and then engaged in his work “ Documentos, para la Historia de Costa
Rica,” the first volume of which was out.* Senor Fernandez was found
an enthusiastic antiquarian and historian. The chapters of his work
first came out in the official gazette, in addition to the ordinary circula-
tion, of which copies were sent to the officials in all parts of the republic,
and everywhere awakened an interest in antiquities and the history of
the Indians, which must work valuable results. Repeatedly I had co-

*The second volume has since appeared.
820 PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY.

operation which was due to the interest excited by these papers. In
company with this gentleman I called on the bishop of Costa Rica,
who, while interested in anthropology, was especially fond of ornithol-
ogy. In his collection were jadeites, one very fine, and several speci-
mens in argillite and marble. These two gentlemen were to start in
about a week on a Government expedition for exploration in the country
of the Guatuso, or Rio Frio Indians, and kindly invited me to join them.
Here was a rare opportunity, but on consideration I concluded to stick
to my instructions and give my time to the department of Liberia. *

April 4, we (Keith, some half-dozen Costa Rica gentlemen, and I) left
San José for Port Limon. We crossed the ridge between the central
valley or plateau and the Atlantic slope, and took breakfast at one of
the stations of the parties building the cart road. This was a graded
road which followed a stream in its rapid but tortuous descent through
the mountains to the point where the railroad entered the gorge and
crossed the Rio Lucio. An extra train was made up in the evening, and
we made a night trip of a few hours to Port Limon, distance 71 miles.
At the upper end of a curved beach is a promontory formed of coral
rock, and off this an island making a very beautiful harbor. There
were no antiquities found in this neighborhood, but in the storehouse
of Mr. Keith was a collection made along the line of the railroad, and
several people in the town had very pretty specimens from the same
source. Mr. Keith agreed to send his to the Smithsonian by his brig
Nile on her next trip to New York, so I spent the 6th hard at work
packing.

We were back in San José on the 8th, and in San Mateo, on the road
to Punta Arenas on the 10th, and sailed in a dug-out for Puerto Jesus on

the llth at midday. The first showers of the coming wet season had | q

been at Alajuela as I passed on the 9th, and I found the road from Jesus
to Nicoya in some places miry from the heavy shower of the evening of
the 12th. The ride was made at night, and progress in the intense
darkness was only made practicable by a lantern carried by my com-
panion. Three o’clock the morning of the 13th found me at Nicoya. I
had not had a night’s rest for six nights, and the well-deserved fever
promptly made its call. The northeast wind came up strong again and
blew the wet season back for another two weeks.

The leave of absence for the jefe politico, Don Juan José Mata-Rita,
not having arrived, he and | went to Santana on the 20th to make some
investigations in the huacas of that place. As around Nicoya and Ca-
nillas, they were indicated by low piles of stones, principally limestone
from the neighboring hills. These piles only rose 1 or 2 feet above
the surface. Commencing excavation in one, the stones were found for
first 3 feet, at the bottom of which were human bones and some frag-
ments of Chorotega pottery. Lower still was the hard clay of this sec-

*In November, Don Leon wrote me a most interesting letter informing me of their
BULCCESS.

PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. Cop &

tion. In one place the excavation was carried to a depth of 6 feet;
pieces of coarse pottery were found near the bottom, where apparently
undisturbed clay discouraged further digging. In neighboring huacas
were found some fine specimens a few years ago. One of them, No.
59891, which was afterwards broken, was secured and mended. It is
well burned, light, and strong, and altogether a very fine specimen of
old Indian work. ;

The afternoon of the 22d of April I started on an extended trip ac-
companied by Don Juan Mata-Rita, the jefe politico. Before leaving the
Department of Nicoya the fragment of a figure in argillite was obtained
at Savana Grande. There was much pretty quartz in the ridge which
separates Nicoya from Santa Cruz. We spent the night at the latter
place, and, furnished with letters from the jefe to the officials of his de-
partment along our proposed route, we resumed our journey in the
morning towards the Pacific. For some miles the road was along the
plain of Santa Cruz, and then we crossed a ridge not more than 200 or
300 feet high, and entered the township or barrio of El Gallo (the cock).
The game-cocks of El Gallo, who are mostly smugglers, got into some
trouble a few years since, and the name of the barrio was changed to
El Veinte-Siete de Abril, the anniversary of President Guardia’s acces-
sion to power. The land here was very poor, and the inhabitants cor-
respondingly wretched. The business of smuggling over the Nicaragua
line helps them in their struggle. These people at once took us for
Government officers in search of contraband, and viewed every act and
word with suspicion. They apparently had forgotten how to tell the
truth, and really seemed the greatest liars on the face of the earth.
While sitting on our horses at the door of a hut with the whole family
protesting that they had never heard of any relics of antiquity in that
region, we pointed out fragments of pottery, ctc., in a bank not 20 feet
away, and we knew that at the time these people had some good speci-
mens in their house, but they could not conceive such folly as two men
traveling in these parts merely in search of old pots ; believed us to be
revenue officers, and did not wish to give us any pretext for remaining
in their neighborhood. But in this abominable barrio we had a most
delightful surprise. Riding up to the house of the school-master,
we presented our letter and were received with charming courtesy.
There were two school-houses, one for girls the other for boys, on oppo-
site sides of a plaza. Between the two and a little back was the domicile
of the teacher, all in bamboo, and so neat and new, for a moment I thought
I was back in Japan. He was a mestizo of excellent manner and toler-
able education. His wife managed domestic affairs, while a daughter
of seventeen years relieved him of the girl school. She was an exquisite
specimen of the mestiza senorita, slender and graceful as a wand, with
hands and feet of a sylph, and eyes so large and so soft—verily I did
want to go toschool again, and if there had only been the excuse of some

4s
822 PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY.

decent huacas in the neighborhood, the worthy dominie would have had
me for a guest for some time.

The alcalde, after having our horses attended to by his policeman,
escorted us around the neighborhood in search of antiquities, but we
only secured a few specimens of extremely rude ware. The ancient
inhabitants were no doubt as miserable as those now here, and proba-
bly could ill afford the extravagance of jadeite ornaments.

Next morning, with the policeman as guide, we pursued our journey
to Santa Rosa, where were two more schools. Don Juan wore anargillite
gorget suspended around his neck, and this was shown the children,
and one little fellow said there were things like that at his house,
and we decided to accompany him to his home. Before his school hours
were over he had been so frightened by suspicious natives that it was
with the utmost difficulty we persuaced him to accompany us. On the
road we met a man and asked him tue usual question, if he could tell
us where to find huacas, when he stepped back aghast and with the
most ludicrous expression of alarm, exclaimed ‘* Huacas! the Lord pre-
serveme! What dol know about huacas?” Ihave travelled a great deal
in Central America, but never before saw a place where ignorance and
suspicions put such obstacles in the way of simple investigations. The
trials of a foreigner travelling alone may be imagined, when it is remem-
bered that [was accompanied by Don Juan himself, a nearly pure blood
Indian, who was born and raised in the Nicoya and was jefe politico of
that district.

Some 5 or 6 miles more and we stopped at a cattle ranch of the rudest
class—three miserable cane huts near by a corral for such cattle as
needed attention, and an inclosed area of a few acres for maize and plan-
tains. The proprietor, owner of a large number of cattle, was here, and
lived as poorly as his meanest vaquero. The morning of the 25th April
we rode to within a short distance of the sea to examine an old burial
ground. The graves were indicated by slight piles of stone, showing
but little above the surface. ‘There is very little soil above the rock
here and the relics, human bones, extremely rude pottery, celts, and
broken grinders were found within 15 inches of the surface. This was
on a slope, and apparently the surface had been much denuded by the
wash of the wet seasons. One skeleton was extended with head to south-
west; on one side of the skull was a celt, edge down, on the other a
small rude vessel in pottery. Of eight celts collected, all but one were
blunt, the edge apparently chipped off to render the implement useless.
The one excepted was a very smali one. The collection, interesting
for the very rudeness of the pottery made here, was intrusted to the
school-master at Santa Rosa, who failed to forward it to Santa Cruz and
it was lost. That worthy was as stupid and ill-mannered as his col-
league at El Gallo was pleasant and courteous.

We only worked at that place halfa day, then returned via the ranch
to Santa Rosa, and thence to a small hamlet, Las Huacas, on the route

PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 823

towards Sardinal country, of the same wretched character. Next day,
about noon, after touching the coast west of Cape Vela, we struck the
barrio of Sardinal, and were at once in a different country. Evidences
of greater prosperity were apparent on every side, and besides, at the
first house a specimen in green stone, argillite No. , was obtained.
Proceeding along the valley the houses became more frequent until near
that of Don Pizarro; it was rather after the order of a scattered village.
Here nearly two days were spent riding from house to house, and rarely
inquiring in vain for antiquedades. Some objects in stone, usually, if not
always, gorgets, were secured, besides a pretty collection of pottery.

The afternoon of the 28th we crossed the ridge between Sardinal and
the bay of Culebra toa place called Panama, near the mouth of the bay.
Here at the house of Pizarro* we got Nos Near
the road from that house to the beach were lying two fine images in the
Zapaterra style t.about 6 feet high, with the head of a serpent for a head-
dress. The head of one was broken off. It was the finest specimen of
that class that I had ever seen. Nearer the beach in the bank ofa
stream was a lot of pottery fragments, as in the Buena Vista, and near
by a section of a shell heap which had been covered by alluvium.

Staying at the house of Espinosa that night, next morning we
visited the huaca of Panama, on a hill overlooking the bay. At the
edge of a mangrove swamp near the foot of this hill was a bank about
8 feet high and 30 by 50 yards surface, composed, as at Buena Vista,
almost entirely of shards. On this bank stood a pochate tree 6 feet in
diameter, at 10 feet above the surface. There was another near by, the
two forming islands occasionally in very high tides. On the beach near
by were some Chiriqui Indian women in bivouac, the mates of some pearl
fishermen, and they, on a small scale, were building their shell-heap,
and furnishing an illustration of how these immense banks of pottery
and others of shell may have grown in the old times. Shells were not
mixed with the shards in the large banks. The fragments, as at Buena
Vista, were almost all of unpainted ware, or that which was only painted
solid red; but there were a few pieces in yellow ornamentation, or in
bands of black or dark brown. The most ordinary pieces were well
burned.

Just south of these banks the hill of the hwacas rises some 150 or 200
feet, culminating in a point which overlooks sea and land for miles
around. The valley of Panama runs off inland, and to the north stretches
the beautiful bay of Culebra, the hacienda of Culebra bearing north 10°
east. On the top of this hill was the finest hwaca yet seen. The graves
had on them stones in pieces about a foot in diameter. Many of these
had been opened, and a great many objects were reported to have been
obtained. The burials were shallow, the excavations being only about
' 3 feet in depth. Scattered around were bones, fragments of handsome

*T mention the names of these houses to facilitate the work of other investiators,
t Squier.
824 d PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY.

metates, and numberless shards of painted ware, celts, etc. Among the
remains were some pieces of large jars. A head in green argillite was
found, but there were no specimens of the Santa Helena ware seen at
Ometepec and supposed to have been of Aztec manufacture.*

In the evening we rode to the hacienda El lovo, and spent a quiet
day with Don David Hurtado. The owner of the hacienda, Jesus Maria,
dined with us and after giving accounts of shell heaps, stone images,
etc., told of a large block between his place and Nagascola, on which
were carved the sun, moon, and other figures. The morning of May1
we rode to Jesus Maria and accompanied the hidalgo in search of his
remarkable monolith. About midday we found a quarry of columnar
rock, whitish and soft; near it lay the object of our search, found af-
ter hours of riding over hills parched by the sun and wind of the dry
season, and on this precious stone seemed concentrated the rays of the
tropic sun. We dismounted and walked around it in search of hiero-
glyphs. There were sundry marks and scratches as if a careless cow-
boy had made this his seat and scraped his spurs against the side.
Oh !——We remounted and turned our horses homeward, and conversa-
tion was not animated for some hours.

The explorer who goes to Spanish-America and lends a willing ear to
the yarns of the natives, will follow a will-o’-the-wisp from Texas to
Cape Horn, and return empty handed. I have accomplished little ex-
cept when I have settled down at a point and by laborious investigation
ferreted out whatever of archeological treasure was stored around,
sometimes to the great suprise of natives, who, born and raised in the
neighborhood, had never suspected the existence of the antiquedades.

May the 2d we rode to the hacienda San Raphael, 6 miles north of El
Jovo. The burials here were in a clump of treeson a slight elevation
above the plain, where enough of soil had accumulated above the lava
rock to support something more than the usual coat of grass. The bur-
ials were not more than 2 feet below surface. A vase 12 inches deep, 16
in diameter ,and 33 across the mouth, contained burnt humanbones. The
guide said that he found another here containing bones, and in other
eases fragments of large jars with bones. There were lying around
celts, fragments of red unpainted ware and of finely worked metates.
The graves were indicated by large stones.

Continuing our journey to the northward, we visited the hacienda
Pelon, where on a slight eminence abouta mile north of the house were
seen huacas like those seen in 1877 opposite Boquerones.j The pottery
was in some cases painted red. There was a fragment of coarse ware,
13 inches thick, which must have been part of an immense vessel, judg-
ing by the curve. The guide reported the finding here of large jars 3
feet high, containing bones and charcoal. The two objects and
were found in the loose dirt of an excavation.

* Archeological researches in Nicaragua, pp. 55, 80.
t Archeological Researches in Nicaragua p. 74.

PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 825

We left Pelon at 4 P.™M., and at dusk were at the Rio Deshozados,
where some fodder was obtained for the horses and some corn cakes
and eggs for ourselves. After a bath in the sparkling rapids, [ spread my
blanket on the ground and looked up atthe stars until tired “ nature’s
sweet restorer” got ahead of the noise of laughter and chatter made by
an Indian wench and her beaus. We were up at 3 A. M. and took the
road again for Liberia, where we spent the midday hours. It was a
lifeless little town, the capital of this department, with its white houses
and streets glaring in the sunshine. We were shown a handsome vase
of Luna ware, the prettiest specimen of ancient American ware I have
ever seen ; but could not purchase it, and, as the owner was absent, could
not get a history of its origin. A good specimen of a Choratega vase
was presented, with the information that it was exhumed at Nagascola,
in Culebra Bay.

In the afternoon we rode some 15 or 20 miles to Boquerones. Next
morning, securing fresh horses, we visited the hamlet of Communidad,
up the river. There and in Boquerones were secured four small chal-
chihuitls. That afternoon we stopped at Siete Cuerros, on the road
to Santa Cruz, and obtained a broken tripod of Luna ware, which
was said to have been the cover of a vase found in the burial ground
some miles lower, on the west side of the Tempisque. There were also
some fragments of Santa Helena and Choratega ware, which I was in-
formed were found at the same place, as they were near the Luna buri-
als, Ometepec.

May the 5th we got back to Nicoya, and after the excitement of the
trip came fever and dysentery. I was pretty well used up; the wet
season was beginning and I determined to leave. Sending special mes-
sengers to Boquerones for the objects there, the collection was packed
and taken to Punta Arenas, whence I sailed on the 13th.

To Prof. SPENCER F. BAIRD, °
Secretary Smithsonian Institution.
ABSTRACTS FROM ANTHROPOLOGICAL CORRE-
SPONDENCE.

EDITED BY OTIS T. MASON.

The axcheological work of the Bureau of Ethnology withdraws a
great deal of material formerly published under this head. The danger
of losing facts in a great mass of current correspondence, however,
makes it advisable to publish brief abstracts of letters in this form :

Baxter, J.—Reports opening a grave on the shores of the Guif of St.
Lawrence, 40 miles from Chatham, N. B., and finding the skeleton of a
large man. The head was covered with a sealskin cap and the feet with
moccasins of the same material. There were pieces of canvas and birch
bark about the remains, and inclosed within these a piece of Spanish
cedar and a short piece of rope, “served,” as though it had been a
piece of standing rigging. Over the body were three large copper ket-
tles, overturned, one over the head, the largest over the body, and the
third over the flexed extremities.

Brown, E. L.—Reports several groups of mounds near Durand, Wis.
On the farm of the writer, at the depth of about 6 inches, are found
old fire-beds of burnt rock and ashes, pottery, and arrow-heads. In the
village of Durand is a group of twelve burial mounds. On the bank of
Bear Creek, 24 miles east of Durand, near a grist-mill, is a group of
seven mounds in a row, extending north and south. In the town of
Nelson, Buffalo County, are several groups of mounds, one hundred
and fifty altogether. The mounds are generally located on the river
terraces in groups. They are composed of sand and drift, not strati-
fied. Several mounds have been explored. On the rocks near Duma-
ville, Wis., are figures of canoes and animals. The dead buried in the
mounds are in a sitting posture, facing the east. The remains are en-
tirely decayed. North of Durand, in Ojalla, two caches have been
found, one containing about seventy-five large chipped disks; the other
one hundred, in various stages of completion. Mr. Brown will make
further researches for the Smithsonian Institution.

Burns, Frank.—Reports a cave near Blountsville, Ala., in a cliff of
limestone. It was formerly a burial place, as a number of skeletons
were found deposited in wooden troughs. The bodies had been wrapped
in some sort of matting made of bark. Twelve ornaments of native
copper rudely hammered out and two chisels were found there, as well
as sea Shells. The cave was dug over during the civil war for the pur-
pose of extracting saltpeter. The writer also reports the discovery of
a cache of seventeen chipped spear heads in a field near Blountsville.

The specimens are said to be beautifully wrought.
826

PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 827

Gray, William.—Is studying the prehistoric relics of Kingsbury
County, Dakota Territory. Many evidences of ancient habitation ex-
ist here and should be saved to history while they are accessible.

Luttrell, Elston—In Calhoun and Talladega Counties, Alabama,
mounds, stone implements, sculptures, &¢., abound. Two and a half
miles east, and thence five-eighths of a mile south from Oxford, Cal-
houn County, is a large isolated mound. It lies about 300 yards
from Choccolocco Creek, on the Caver place. It has never been exam-
jned; it is about 20 feet in vertical height, and has a large, flat sur-
face on top. ‘The perimeter is an ellipse, the major axis of which is about
100 feet and the minor axis about 75 feet. On the west side, a few feet
from the base, is an excavation or mardelle. The interior has never
been examined. There is a group of mounds, orderly arranged, 15
miles southwest of Oxford. They lie on the south bank of Choccolocco
Creek. Pipes and stone implements are found in the vicinity. At the
Elston Store place, in an excavation for a cellar, a body was found buried
in a sitting posture, and many stone implements were also found in the
grave.

Mackie, Joseph S.—Writes from Lima, Peru, describing observations
made at Chorillo, on the coast, at a point forming an equilateral triangle
with Callao and Lima. Passing up the sandy hillside on one occasion
he observed a scrap of cloth protruding, and immediately dug it out.
The fabric was of the peculiar Peruvian embroidery, on which were
wrought fierce animals in a threatening attitude. Inclosed was the
mummy of a female child not more than two days old. The continuation
of the digging revealed a large quantity of bones wrapped in nets, the
bundles resembling dumb-bells—the head at one end, the long bones in
the middle, and the small bones at the other end.

MacLean, J. P., writing about the great Cahokia mound, says:

‘Almost everywhere on its sides you can pick up fragments of pottery,
broken bones, and white or milk chert chips. Some of the pottery is
decorated. I found the frontal bone of a human skull on the side of the
mound.

“Tn vol. II, Peabody Museum Report, p. 474, will be found a cut of
the Cahokia mound. While this restoration is a good one, yet it is not
accurate. I came to the opinion that on this mound were four temples,
representing four orders of priests, the highest order erecting their tem-
ple on the upper platform.

“The lowest platform is not a graded way, as represented by An-
cient Monuments, page 174. No evidence of a graded way presents
itself at any place. On the west side I discovered traces of baked
bricks.

“Professor Putnam is guilty of an amusing oversight (p. 471) in call-
ing attention to the fact that its exact location is not given by writers who
have attempted to describe the mound, and then neglects to do so him-
self, although he visited it. It is located in Madison County, Illinois,
828 PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY.

on the south boundary of Namioka township, 6 miles east of East Saint
Louis, on the road leading to Collinsville.”

Moore, J. H.—Reports that there are many mounds in the vicinity of
Oakley, Arkansas County, Arkansas.

Parish, Sidney.—Writes that near his house, 18 miles above Memphis,
Tenn., is a large mound, upon which relics have been found.

Poynter, Robert H.—Writing from Desha County, Arkansas, speaks
of Wal-ka-ma-tu-ba, an old Indian, who was buried in 1834, in the fol-
lowing manner: The house in which the family lived was built of round
logs, covered with bark and daubed with mud. In the middle of the
house a board was driven about 3 feet into the ground, and the old man
was lashed to this with thongs, in a sitting posture, with his knees drawn
up in front of his chin and his hands crossed and fastened under his
knees. The body was then entirely encased in mud, built up like a round
mound and smoothed over. <A fire was kindled over the pile and the
clay burnt toa crisp. Six months afterward the family were moved
away and the mound opened. The body was well preserved. Another
body had been wrapped in bark of the birch and deposited in the cavity
of a dry spring.

Reed, J. W. K., makes the following remarks about Cross Creek, Pa. :

‘‘Tn this vicinity are to be found many small mounds. On the top of
a high ridge, partly on my farm, and partly on my neighbor’s, are many
traces of prehistoric races. At one point on the level, on top of the ridge,
is amound which was about 54 feet high and from 2 to 3 rods in diameter,
in which an excavation was made a few years ago, and a stone wall was
uncovered. The wall was built alongside of a crack in a large rock ;
the crack is V shaped, which shows that one side has settled down; the
mound is principally formed of stones, intermixed with some earth, and
on it was growing large trees. There was nothing found in it except
the stone-wall. It was only partially excavated. In the immediate vi-
cinity are to be found other mounds, and several large rocks with a pe-
culiar kind of carving on them. The carving is rather indistinct, but it
is the work of human hands. Partly surrounding these carved rocks
and mounds can be traced a circle formed by flat stones set in on edge.
From a point in this circle starts a straight line of these stones that are
set in on edge which runs near the center of thecirele; this line can
be traced 30 or 40 rods. In other places inthis region, where there are
large rocks, we find these carvings. The circular row of stones set on
edge appear to follow around the top of the point of thehill. If the
timber was cleared off this hill there would be a great view from it. At
one point objects can be seen beyond the Ohio River (about 10 miles).
Many stones about the mounds show marks of having beenrudely dressed.
We find many arrowheads, stone axes, stone hammers, &c., in this vi-
cinity.”

Richardson, A. S.—Calls attention to the existence of two mounds in
the vicinity of West Point, King William County, Virginia.

PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 829

Stubbs, Charles H.—Im reply tothe assertion made in Smithsonian An-
nual Report, 1879, page 446, that there are no mounds in Northeast Mary-
land, states that there are mounds or stone cairns in Cecil County, from
oneof which he obtained twenty pieces of pottery. There are no sculpt-
ured rocks in the Susquehanna River at Conowingo, but many in the
river at Bald Friar, 14 miles above Conowingo. Mr. Stubbs claims to
have first brought these rocks to the notice of scientific men. Lancas-
ter County was once the home of the Susquehannocks, the Shawanoes,
and the Conestogoes, and wherever they lived are yet to be found relics
of these tribes, and in all probability of a race far anterior to them. In
the southern end of this county is the Rock Spring, excavated by the
aborigines. On the Hutton farm is an Indian villagesite. In the Sus-
quehanna, at Peach Bottom, Mount Johnson Island, is a famous locality
for gathering stone relics. In Mastic Township are the evidences of
another Indian village. In Manor, at what was once Indian Town, are
yet to be found large quantities of pottery. Near Christiana and the
Gap resided the Shawnees. Here is the quarry at which the steatite
pots were made, one of which has not been severed from the rock. Mr.
Stubbs cautions archeologists about committing themselves to names
for aboriginal implements whose functions are still unknown.

Woods, E. H.—States that on the plantation of a friend close to the
Roanoke River, near Avoca, N. C., is an old Indian camping-ground.
During some excavations there were found bones, arrowheads, pottery,
and a skeleton in a sitting posture.
INDEX.

A.

Page.
Abbe, Cleveland, report on progress in meteorology........----.-.--------- 28, 365
Aborigines, American, houses and house life of....-....-..-..---..--------- 46
PBOrei Al TOM ass eNear Nea less leans ames ae ale melaleieleeia'= wine = ame ae 686
Structures in Carroll County, Tennessee...-.. Nadeasd castes saboote sons sae 768
Abstract of anthropological correspondence -....-...----.------------.------- 826
ACcessions; top National MusenmMin-ocecteceaan ces selina ceciccicsincie ce siceee 126, 195-231
IACKOEMAN Ary AG TASSIONEM GOMUGYi-2 <1. 2 ss cnrsc oo5) since sianaeces sia sswie ese 42
PNCOUSUICE 3 sesso = ons es ae siale s(aJo so laine ain Sine w/o ele msidiaiciw sinecmnisaes eis secs 470

Acts and resolutions of Congress relative to the Smithsonian Institution and
NationgleMuseumpcs seems tees sec ce ccs oasis Smeiiecs ct ecieslsc anion set 264
AD PTOPLAtLONS Ee Coe Soa LSO4 aan rec etse cen s sicsecem mise sa co saeie oases 264, 265
ATINOLYOUMGIN Ose ese ens senses cee ecc cee Sedos tececes cos cetamionas 264, 267
iire-proofbullding, National, Museum =secss. 5.5 esse5- iecienine ea ceeriee 264, 265
Fire-proofing Smithsonian Institution...................-...---------- 266
Hurnifure and fixtures; National Museum... s-----5-++ esse sores cscs 264, 265, 266
Heating and lighting National Museum.......-....--..-.----..---.--<- 266
imternationaliexchan Ges toc sas este +n em sess einis ie on ee ctsieelnasiceeice els 265, 266
Nationally Museumys-22 oct coe seus soe ce sows 6 detec etlecteines Scie coe ete 264, 267
North American ethnology, Smithsonian Institution......-....---.--.. 265, 266
Presenvationrot collections -scaa2-ese castes soem eeieee Seiten se see semen 264, 267
Transfer of Centennial collections, Treasury Department........-.-.-..- 266
Distributionofe public documents s-saer-msess see ee seco aee ceeeee secs 271
ina puraMonvot Henry /SbALLO Gee sac) oa otis ce cl ce cenc=eceelcmeso se eine 267
Hondongiishery Exhibitions. seas 5. cassie) se oases oce ceases aces 269
Prinines Centonniale Bxhibttion RepONbes-si=-\-2s)1ss'e se ecco s eee eae ae 267
Southern xpositionansuowsvalle) Koya pence eeas ew rine eine sacle scene 268
Withdrawal of the Thomson Siamese deposit.......-..-...--..----------: 271
AGams; on, William M.. explorations Dy... .- 222-2626 cestesecteciscc cnmece 44
Additions to list of foreign correspondents... -- SGUeaSRDCUSU Od DadeQoanoReD Se 79
PNG OMAR CSE eee iee ee ace e re Narre ee be wie toate wise avs dale ane neve isis Ssicte 386
eC AME COORTA DMV IREL Vetta tats Sette s oe eit ea aes ae ain epcee mde male 363
Agate bequeathed to Institution ..-... BISCO E SEBO LOnSCO HecHBa Ae e Ran Seaeo 43

Agassiz and Marshall; list of generic names employed in geology and paleon-

UDA Se bos choccy saatos sone etc oso C505 CSepnoon Hoc ec neaase hscesdca se 27
Ainslee, Hon. George, presented lock of hair of Sir Walter Scott..........-- 43
ATTY Holt) GO COLy eybs., lOtterirome qa s sare sios aslo aise seienne eieciealaceaene eee ios 71
AM as ea Re Pl OLARONS Ne se oiste eae ase sate Cawley ee onits cee os Sapam eee ee ae 14
American aborigines, houses and house life of ...........-.. =... 20200. ---20- 46

Indiansschicetdeitiesiofithetsscne secs ss - ceca ciccos eonemee teet merle s sees 47
Tustitnte of Mining Engineers; meeting of 25.52. 2223. eee cee eek ec 10
Min gWIsticssbiblocraplny Of sscseee sen tae on ee eee ea one leae eeceee. cle 46
Amulets, cranial, prehistoric trephining and-...............-.....--------- 46
PAINS Mica Crap CO-ODOLAuIOM Ofc ac ses eea see Son ae atemeeaacacce se cesestecee see 89
Analyses made by department of chemistry .. .... ......--- 220-22. cceccs enon 155

(831)
832 INDEX.

Page.
Anatomy, vegetable. notes ON. secjnsos eerie ce teas sen iseee estan enon eee eres B51
Anchor Steamship Company, co-operation of <225---ss--seese neon eee eee eee 31, 89
AM ThHTOPOL ONY, MOUS ON yee eae ee sate ae eminent etle eel eee 634, 655
Anthropological correspondence, abstracts of ...--.....-.-------.----.----- 826
Anthropological data, on limitations to the use of............-..-..-.------ 46
Papers, by Charles *Ranests- ne cccn seamec sy naciee coma es See ee aie eee 23
Anthropology; papers relating to) eecsc. ene see eecee cece eee eae ieee 675
Anthropology, report on progress in, by O. T. Mason .....-------..---.----- 28,633
PN OLTIRO SOPRS ON) SS Bee Oa OSA DOCS DbOODOOSH0 ose Soba dee SOE boSsS LOSES Has 634,655 |
JAE EOMGPA? cos nae|Oq5608 SS6E. 46 On OonO Cesc Shoo coScsn sce Aaneco KinoSNdeSeees 635, 655
Biblio ora phy eine cannes evel wistetetetoa es welala ate a stata ate etna esol ere ieee eae 655
TENOR Ay Oli hls Aa coos honso0 Gh0e DooSboodnccn conSo9 caKcadsoscubicees sasDeS 638, 659
Comparative technolosy-seacsce soe ses sea e ae aeee seascape 648, 666
LOGIT) a PeeSoee cans HSSSs8 seoS SNS SSeS ee ose sees SS oss Seo tosses ae ose 645, 662

EUS fe Gua ee Aeon eae a of SSS e eee Seats Seana es ene ese sconses [hl ny.
18 Cyd ta) be) a Ai Ree Raines See ae See AE SoBe SACS ot aS Sponge babel Eso!

Instrumentalities ..\5.'.. 22% sclese dance cnosceosecoss ssacceeceescesenmecs 670
PneumatOlogy et ocee mesa socie tiacmioecis = tetcen ce emote clare eeieisae eta emia 652, 668
IPEMAONOI Al Aaa Abas See esceete Gocsed SdoSn8 adScHS SS5D HHO oS oseas HgacEse 644, 661
Sociolopy:s Gs.4 06 rab he setae csee cosets oo beeen eee: a eee 649, 667
Antiqnities, depalementiOl o..cc-smaneesa => s-iaceslasoe eras ee eee eae eee 126, 127, 195
INGGESTOMNSTOSac8 ase cee mabe BebGoo BeCHE Hoon eeORopee cocecbhontds ceases 195
am Baelen. CHEatOt ic a eee ae aie te ele ale a aie ee eee ee eee 127, 167, 195
Washington County, Maryland os oe ese iecea eal eee a ae eel tee eee 796
Appendices to Report on the National Museum ..........-...--.-.------- 167, 195, 231
Appendix (general) to Smithsonian Report..............-.------.---------- 73
AND Ade) SHeRa MIN ASME DO 558 Sanecodododuos soboaSdoocon oscosa Sbudss Boooos 57
Appropriations for Smithsonian and National Museum........-.------.----- 264-266
ATPIEROO EN, MOUS Gil 6 oS agae beanae ses ceo bso5 cede. conn SdeesS case esos oSc0 = 635, 655
Archesontata, NObes ON ene ema eee ea eeae Seale eine ete sete ele ee eet 560
PAT CHIC Te CTONS eee acme ae ae) fe miei clenie eae ein eam iele ania ne lel ie eee 14, 357
ATIZON A COUCEHONS ALOM -ccee so) ees ce recieve ame elone te aan eee eerie mle eetoees 46
1Dixg HOE NLS Mal oo SoA o no ebod boocds Subd onahod nSooddnooHSOoncinad concede 18
Aroma? WO WeUOhNIe 6 Scosce gases shboRs SasduS scocos sesorSceScodccsseccéoac 6, 264, 267
Art in shells of the ancient Americans, by William H. Holmes .............. 46
Art of weaving among the Navajos, by Washington Matthews ...-.--....---- 47
Arts and industries, department of, in National Museum ....-.-..-.-.....---- 128
ANTM AO GIS, INOUE) Gil Goe cco ascSan oseSnosces sob sso Badd ssscss pose Shc6sS sooses 579
Arthur, President Chester A;, member ex officio ----<2-2- ce. -cemecesieseae == DD
Asia, PeOPTAPHY OL sos aoe ose etme atm oa eee Seen ae etd ae allele 361
Assistants and officers of the National Museum.....-.....-....---.--..----- 56x 167;
Astronomical announcements by telegraph..-......-...---..--.-------..---- 28, 57
Astronomy, report on progress in, by E.S. Holden .............-..---------- 27, 277
Astronomical Pro lWOcTap My seas = ee els ee ea eiasie i seers ere a eae eee 319
GOnYeS) Sj oeeasseses bsaqsbocone SessoencoEHD coG6 coeSseaodade cnosesbes HONE 293
IDG ol SPT eebens nda heds ood 6h sh5 A SOROS SRS AA GH ROSMEUSIMOcseS Ecoetoacagend 278
Miscellaneous bens ee ser ease eee eee eee sence aor acne aieee eateries 321
Nie bullies 52 Sale Gece ecne o ercate meses ae sisteleie mae aemte late eiaje'= cle) terete teeters) aia clateteete 277
OSES AONE Coa6 Soedas sHoO coe Cao Sogo boSros Gabssd oasoso oss osescnesoao3t 311
JPG gan = Oana aS Aae eee sae Soe Son- copcee.quacue rogccancecabeasae 305
“BNET hea aa SSeS COBO aE Sob BEUU CHS OSD BOb boo bE oH C6be noaahUlsssoabse 286
Atlantic Cable Company, co-operation of ... 2.2.2. -- 5 cc nen cc ccce see cce sacs 28
Atlas Steamship Company, co-operation of ...-..- DO Ee See eee eee 31, 89
Atmospheric electricity, notes. OM) (5. <<. wo. acm. 1. concen scales eee warwiee een 422

AUTOTAS!. oes. d ses ee eee oe eee ue cretea ciate ei erete wlchoters tolerate ma toes eral etereie nae erate eee 422

INDEX. 833
B.

Page

BACLETI a enOLESI OMe crate mcttie mats atecie cities ctslneis lars ot cieeeue nee eiaey sarees sicie 2 555
Baird, Spencer F., Commissioner of Fish and Fisheries faoscia- soe eee oi 49
IRActor of NeorAl MUSe@UM Est yacrocicce nisms ostoe = oe sete ee eee Ox
secretary of the Smithsonian Institution —--=-- 2222 322s eee eeee ee eee XxX, 56
Introduction to record (of scientific) progress. ..----\2---- s2222 s4-4es soeeee 276
Papersin Proceedingsiof National Museum... .----- 2. 2-.---se6 been eeee 27
Metier iransmaittine, ReporhtoOr Sel. oc. s. 2s -ciss ecinicicae ec ens 222 sce Itt
Mettersionrastronomical annonuncements==5-+ +s--cc.s~ a - es ese ee es eae 59-76
IRGRORU Ol Shoo sis stacey cot Se5 HOBUbS CUSHOOE SE nEOe mec on Sa aie nee meee 1-56
MransterOLprivate- library co, Museum) <- 55.5. + 22-01 ses ee eeiee sae cies ese 34
ibaiz, Jacob, co-operation Of ..- 2... 25.2 2-2-6 -22eee-ses Wet Soa eee Ea aaae te 89
Baltimore and Ohio Railroad, co-operation of ............+. 2.2.22 ---2 2-20: 31
Baltimore and Potomac Railroad, co-operation of .......................--- 3l
Barkers G.le. vEOpOLe Ol PIOgTess IN PHYSICS;.. wo os2s)2os0/- os sn os dne eee esas 28, 459
BAT OMELET Rasmeiesic cis. ooo si iaieie eraiae lati ciainial wee Sins nciarciate ieee aocte och yeh isee & ast 386
ALOMEULLEWPLCSSULE aco ssc ne l-tatecleteimiave esse oe iele ae ce ee amine Mae arene eke ees a 420
Batrachia, North: American, cheok-lst Of. 22. cosa.scc06 ve ceen reese ceas cee 122
Batrachians  G@epartmenG, Of as-is ace cese sce seeaear cacce Sol cadeee aneae 126, 135, 204
Bean, Barton A., assistant in department of fishes..................---- cee. 137
Beans Larleton H.. curator, National: Museum 22 .s-ces-so5 sce bees cee cence 2K
List of publications of the National Museum ......-...-.......-....-.-.-- 122
ZAC LAID Vater eee cea ia metres = erat aac tee ae Nem sete ae els enone mates mine ae 167
Ee HOnn OM COMCCEION OL ENC)... san \cse ciel ac nefeleiion sete ai ae aioe seas 27, 137
BEDlanwia- ye CO-OPELatlONUOts sae =e oe cece ieee cie a oe ee = sine orlaete onele cece 89
Becker, George F., digest of atomic weights ..........,...-- -...--ce.------ 22
Belding; 1.5 discovery of new species of reptiles. ....-....-.....--ccen------ 25
HxploraniOons Yass ete noaterseeccc Sesee SERA ae Ate meres ee ce 18
Beli AMES expPlOLaAtionsiDy ese on ss sales coer Some cee ee ate neni eee 18
BENCIke Charles Collections MAGdOi Dy saceessce eee een eee eee o eee aeee 17
BNO ALCHESIOReenetie Noe eeisc les cle ete Rise ae eee oa ve EE en eae 17
PADCES I MUMUSOUIN ELOCOCGIN ERI. a .co5s). sie ase se voe acess doe sols eas eee 27
Bernadou, J. B., assigned to duty in chemical laboratory ..-............---. 42
bibliocraphywastronomicalcess acess ose asecige oe soc ee eco eee assess 319
Wrenner Cane OMIShUCAy Se so artes asics ate recess ein on Se aera ote yes 46
Oiganthropolocyge see eave a ars ciate ceases cae SR EAN ct) aah Ne iaye CaS a 655
Of fishes of the Pacifie coast of the United States, by Theodore Ga eee 22, 205 Lee
WiC aa LEAN OS seme ering tai cirecare ioe ecaas Oaeie ware Sol eae cede oye we Mee 160
Of publications of the Museum ia NSS 2 eae cise ere ale eres oP a eae ree 167
Bicknell shuUseneslss DA PeCLay yee see eee oe ce lee ae nea nL ee ep eee 136
BiosraphicalinoniceroriGeorge, Wie Hawes) cease. soos 2 oar cee coe cee ecco e eee. 151
Biological Society, meetings of, in Museum lecture-room................---- 10
Pe IOMOr va MAN, MOLOR OW nscea snes tacts Nemec coc ce ease ae eee eae ere ee 638, 659
Bird life of the Northwest, researches into, by C. Bendire ...............--. 17
EMEAS COCPAMEMOeNb OL c-ttine ee toeN: oe Meee aera Cee ot oe ame er on meen 126, 131, 201
Blackford, H.(G., suggestion to use spawn of cod .-..--......2....5.-----22- 54
Bland, onbeing CO-Operamlon Ola see icamecekias te ence ane area ete ent e 89

Eleanor nasties Island, Ohio River, remains on
Blish, J. B., U. 8. N., assistant in department of marine invertebrates, &c.. 42,144

PSOE UOLPELE OHSS © «s/s es ae ewe eiciele Seen ae tee eee ee eae Pe tT Una XIX, 2
SATHUENTIEY | SCAVELE HG eae 0 pen pst aes Oe Ae Se UE tka ah esl | /atrey Cp ds tin lh San ie See Ix, 2
PANTATUT AMG POUL LO! a)2 caste = so ome era cays Se eee be LIN APs ee! 1
Appropriation asked of Congress for fire-proofing of Smithsonian building. 2
CATETSU ITS CLE EM mae pin el Sie at eset a is 2 oe AND ee 2

H. Mis. 26——53
834 INDEX.

Page.
Board of Regents—Continued.
INGO GRIGG ASB Bebe b ooea oe ooaoteco oobd Go5 Usprooos obo sono nesaos Saas 1x,4
WACAN CIES In fe s)5 soe odio tease slee Sacletee ean se a alse te eee eee eens ee 2
Behmer, George H., history of the Smithsonian exchanges ......-..--..---- 23, 28, 31
Hist of Torelen COTrespoOnd CM ber ee i <eelala seele Se ole ie ela ee ee ee 22
Report onjoperations of exchanees.sseqsts asec ael= eases see ee eae SU ei
Bolton, H. Carrington, general catalogue of scientific periodicals ........---.. 24
Reportionsprogressimchemishnygse eo. secs es seces ee ee eee eee anes 509
1Byoy ash (Clik, Coreen Oe Loa ee enone soso de soedoodaascdse ot4s shes 89
Botany, pregtess to, by Wie Go, harlow seiscones ameter te ee sane eemeeree 28, 551
DN oe) Neh) 02 SP eR ee EMS PBS sober AR OP bors Gules ate 5 560
IRevncevaronysy chavel [Vey mee ee SR A ee Boe oobc codolnsoe otisoon eeigooc 555
PhmwOrama seas cick ol sisia lew ole cle ateicle alate ie erste a oleate alent ate tert atin 562
Ma WW kn Naar es Ae das acbneo cose ses ces ondoes cposidcedidtos sods sou seed case 557
Vegetable anatomy . 2222.0 2(c5e cee cen <n cee cee me nee ono eae nem ens mine 551
NASR NK) Phyo eae a= See a eabg tne ee pod case soncocss ooesiase so c8esce 552
BotassinlsiWesco-Operatlon Ole soci e cease seiaste meta stetetlalelreeneetehacieetee 89
Boyd. C: H., paper in Museum Proceedings --.. .....- -- 2222 cone - er owen sone = ail
Braém JH. \CO-OPSLavion: Ol eo seee serra alsa sae ne sielaleaielete aie eten eietaeictate ate eee 89
Branstord) Jee) collections madeibyn assesses sae ee eines seine ates 20
Explorations by ....-. rare es laden ions atanaceeis ate winrae olan nau sts ate miata s eave eretetetets 20
INotevonsthelGuatuso;indiansie= sss =e eee ae eaeeei eee ee Seekese eee 677
Report on explorations in Central America in 1881 ..............---.----- 803
Brayton, A. W.,and D. S. Jordan, on the distribution of fishes of the Alle-
ghany region of South Carolina, Georgia, and Tennessee.....-....---- 22
Brewster, Hon. Benjamin H., member ex officio...... ----.~----------2- 2-508 xIx
Hersey \Ulbe wi eae | h~eonaan sGoboadaceds ddaeas cosace cnodes chon asosce 186, 187
Brinton, D.G., introduction to a study of the manuscript Troano ...-..-.-.. 46
Bron, R. T., ancient remains in White River Cafion..-.-....-.. cig aisiomore sieieeie 681
Brown, Nathan) Clittord:spapers Diyas lees ale aietee eine tee eee ioe tel aerate 187
Brown, S.C., registrar of National Museum .................----. --------<- 121
BrowneaVernont di Cos, Co-Operation Ol: seas ata s teeters 89
Broughton, Mrs. bequest of agate to Institution.......-...---.--.---------- 43
Building stones, collection of 2222. <2. 264-2 2oa- <2 2c. ene toe oe 8, 165
Buildings ‘of thednstitution 222 ose. ce cee sean eeieieiseteee oa oe = ae ne a 3
Additionalemusommupurl ding need ed emerceeee a eeleeletrecyeate ea aaa 7
Armory building. Jol. ceco seca ecce ona clee eee nee = ok aan ie 6
aboratonysofuabunal ii storysess sae e eee eeterenia ata ee eter tee inl ttre arate 7
NESE My lorleiebea WypwebbaKe a oe kOe ee eop bes cose capo see soso Scue 5
Smithsonranyoulldimgie see cee acer eee sey sete ee a else ate ie a eerenaeets 3
Bulletinsiot the: Wishs Commission yess sere sce se ee eise as re aera eter 49, 55
Bulletins of National Museunt =.=: .-.2--=--~-=/---1 sive cuite ec na ene nicereneels 25, 126
EnUI MONS ey er olivacar sii ING@SIUL Shek eRe sen goonopiceas ccogmece saa dcooes 26
Ward, Plora of Washington, No. 22 <5. ~ 7 mace seem ee emma neces ==ininio 22
Yarrow, Check-list: Reptilia, No.24. 222d 522 - o.oo tee c soem ecenle= en ee 25
ipa oe NWO AL Ge eaas moan nosso 5 sono Coon cooooods coog sosaDe soneSoncocae 44 et seq.
Bield=workans oi seccscc cae cpeeeesiee oa coors eter qe sae Se cisaaineme ee nominees 44
Linguistic manuscripts in the library of the.-..-...------- eee ecseeeee 46
IDE VAC) Cae Gatoo oe ok Abe oao4 oaebes Booacd Cococo soon pect aanasesacacs 46
Report on operations of ....-. 22-2 + 2220. wee e oe cee ene scence = ennnn= shone P 1, 44
VELMA Psy MIE. Woe I ereTERey Whe GeesnonooBKune, BdeconiaDSoDocoouSaagdEd DSbOD6 10

Butler County, Ohio, signal mounds of...... ..... 2-0-2 ceeeee co ceee cee eee ne ioe

INDEX. 835-

C.
Page
Cabinet of specimens offered to Museum ~2----- 02.26 ooo oe. ccc econ 8:
Calitormiavexploraviong Mess see eel = sees aera eee alate areleareae = 17
Silom, TOO OACRHNON Oto ook Hbbodocsobeceace babbos Semooeadseds noc Srausewe 53
MTOUb se pLOpacallOn"Olae ase ae eta eae Liaie it cte ve Aavcrarctore mate eiele See 54
Gameronswleviee 1. O-,(CO-OperavionOli soos ota eae ate ae een ise eee &9°
Cape Samiaueas (California), faunavat 22.525. - = i). oem ste siesioee el eel= 18:
Cardcataloouestiorliprariesies- assess soa costs ose) Sacccisic = Seccleecie a aemeeoe 34
iipihorec hamecrsermice. asi kero Ne oan yee oe snes i oe Se 77, 80, 81
Carib ae Collection sof sc sse sl ss Se ae ss eS asd Stele elas ae 197
Carlin, W. E., paper of, in Museum Pedneei es Halsted Na ao eetsa serie aes se 27
Carp, Peon. OL easy sia sie Saoteere els ohn einer etaln saa ate letarstatesial wicietnaieinisiae ats 53
Carranza «Consul. ) co-operation Of ss jscejssn ence oss cise eta el sisccielsicioieelie = 89
Carroll County, Tennessee, aboriginal structures in ........-..-..---.------ 76
Carvings, animal, from the mounds of the Mississippi Valley ..........----- 46
@asesnneNatromal Marsemmiye: etnies esta aie state coset sess eteioy dele lcteivinicjeneisics 119
Castro Cde. Co-Operation Ofiee-2 sce oe no ses See e ee nessa aces eee &9
Caswell, Alexis, meteorological observations by -.--..----.. ---.------------ 21
Catalogue of Zuni collection illustrated, by W. H. Holmes...-........-..---- 47
Of the collections to illustrate the animal resources and the fisheries of the
Uniteds States; sbyG.y brown Goodee ese. ae setacinte solace eaieloe aie 22
Of the collections from New Mexico and Arizona ..........--.......-.---- 46, 47
Of linguistic manuscripts in the library of the Bureau of Ethnology, by J.
CHPiling ca setosae Sars siesta were Waste Semel sacerecaceie seis ee arsicerseeeies 46
Of Smithsonian publications, by William J. Rhees.,--.......... bee ale uais ne 28
Of scientific periodicals, by H. Carrington Bolton ..-.. --...----.--.----- 24
Of scientific serials of all countries, by Samuel H. Sendder....--..-...---. 24
Cazeatx pe. :cO-Operationvoress a asciaci aoa cinlsoeaie Satie sels sooo ee cee 89
Gerihs language, J. Owen Dorsey 252.42 \scte nese e edt Bos saee See ocudaenae eke 47
Gensusicollections 2): 5..0 css nccew ahaa ee os toe na eereeiierclie eee eels eee eee 8
Centennialtexhibit. transter tonwashinetone-acsesseeer cesses aecee eee 7, 266
Ey xhibiiion report.) printiMaOfiess reese eee ees cee eee se tels meee eee 267
Centersiodistribuslonlotiex chances se ees cae Sse eae eee eee OF
Woneral, AMIETICD, (OX PlOrAblOMS IO ao. o5e.) 22 e yale eta edos adoro eeaeeeede 19, 803.
Central American picture writing, studies in .......-..-.-...-..-----.------ 46
Cession of land by Indian tribes to the United States, by C. C. Royce -...-.. 46
Chandlery Hons walliam) b..)member ex ojictonss = sae sos se aeteeleesiaieeaee xIx
Charlotte Harbor, Florida, ‘shell NCAPSIO LS ses ee ee eh een eee 794
Chase, H. E., shell-heaps near Provincetown, Mass-......-....--.-.-------- 799
Chase, Henry S., U.S. N., assistant in department of minerals..........-... 42,151
Check list of North American reptilia and batrachia......-.....-..-.--.---- 25, 122
Bhemrealiveology 2 sees si cswacedos acgereee helo Ns see aeh eae eae eee 343
IMIMOR AOR y eee ins eS Na a ies WA iy elie eight ae Jha la eae 538
IETIVSI COs sere 8 See eh MS wea aD a wie ct Sy oe falc a Ren ee Rb RL A 509
Wionksperformied: jc asthe mites staan ey ce ts oye te COL a ite Sip eS Rat Te 155
Chemistry. departmentote sees eee ewcee Soe nee see cae ewae cae eae aeeleaiole 155
Chemistry, report on progress in, by H. C. Bolton .................- peer 28, 509
@hemircalip Wy sl CSis 2s se ashe Set ee ae ese As a Stain Ree Ea ee eaten 509
IMNOreANieR CHEMISE yea se cen eee ees eae aa ieee ee ee cee a eeioee 511
Orcamicichenistiy! ss vee ae eee eee ees woe naman eee een eai ers Aileen 522
Cheng wliszoy ae visit to Mosely seer err cce ces cesak acces aoe yance sale sees 10, 11
Chinatexalorabronstinte seamen esses ae aes ops a Rae eel Sete ec eee ke 21
Christicn yee: letter fromm eles. slo. Soni Ek Ls ose Roe = 593/62
Circalarrelating toindexing andfilmmg 26-2525 2 2.5 2cesc6 cab ece esos del 25

CinculanstotimwerNationea lNiuUSe wie se eae ere eee eel ee ee eee ye 122
836 INDEX.

E Page
Clark, A. Howard, reorganization of fishery section in National Museum .... 129
Clark, Frank N., in charge of station at Northville, Mich......--..........- 54
Clarke, F. H., recalculation of the apomic weights.~---- 2222/2225 -2---- --<- 22
Classification of the Coleoptera of North America, by John Le Conte and
Carey 1 Isler. $5 Sone dene badbabedbaod ssoosototecoou sao cods ones 24
Eozoic and paleozoic rocks ....---.----.----- ba sitwieclcases ans caine Seu we me 335
Climate, notesony 22.2 2.40. -2en.s2.4 es os 5-6 oes ojos = Seen aeeaeeee ase nina 382, 453
Cluss & Schultze prepared plans for fire-proofing of Smithsonian building... 4
Covel Gyan iAN Oi, WinliVailas 6 oe Sheesconns deacso Sosa coscsa soba céabecocogodss 54
@olenterates;notesjon. 2 222 = ose cece cee catered esectscto = aiatrcr neers 573
Collectionsofibullding stones x 9245 22. ie he eo oe ne eee eee 8, 105
Growthrots ee else eee cele ear eee Rater ce baate ta aeum sss ce ache re era are tat Bad)
Misa EUM OVO yo cee ass ecstatic 44
Madedorithe: Museum: 2522 Soedemeico ec aeses actele secs t oateiclcie oe uamieretee ere 12-22
LOIS TS) eeeeee ne SoC SOE nS GEE Cea SOROS OSSHE ats HispHe as coccuccode saseesed 19
(Oe are ROrBCOIOTE se SOC be Sn Sot Cd Caer Amen aese onnccoopoLcuCacasebega Sar 8
Preservation of, Congressional ag POSPCCUIN Dia ate een see eee ete ee eet 264, 267
Mransportation Of nappropriatontOtrersa=cesneoeeee eee eee eae eee 8
United)States!G eolosicaliSurveyere sss -ae eee eee oie teeta erie ae 8, 9, 48
Collins se. spa OGs! Diyjee sae see somos eee celine eee eae eet tae 187
Comets: discovery, Of 25222 Sinsce ce esas aera eee nse onetime sae eee eres 28, 29, 293
Commander Tslands;explona tio msi tera pate aa arate elate ete ese eed ear 16
Compagnie Générale Transatlantique, co-operation of ..---.. Wale ais \sjaie sek yeer 31, 89
Comparative technology, notes on....---. .----. << -. 22. 5 2 oe -- = on nan 648, 666
Committee on Museum building, report of ...... ...-...----..-------------- 2
Congress. (See Acts of.) _
Connor, Miss Margaret, allowance: grantedsto:s. ijcsscinovoeceus ae sees XII
Consuls; co-operation of. .5 2. 252 cee ee Sore 2 cee eee Sate sacle pia eee 89
ContentsofsReport,nSS le ceo ase eee ance ats cto e yale tee re ele reread Vv
Contribntionsito Knowledge 2.23... 0 05.22) tas a). acre ote avec emer ieeret ae eee cere 21
To the natural history of Arctic America, by L. Kumlien ........-.-..---- 22
ihopNorthy American: Ethno] ocy. Violss Lye mV een see ee mei ete ate 46
Lee yea nie Uioy Oo) eed 0 Cae SoS N ret MoammasHObaaaeead HocbatadScan so0657 47
Contribution to the study of the mortuary customs of the N. A. Indians - .... 46
@o-operation of Capt. John M. Dow .2.2- :- 55 s22 22 ecisemicin om eines ie 21
Of consuls and transportation compamieS .-........-..----...-----.------ 89
Of the Pacific Mail Steamship Company ..----.----- octyl at neeeiep rales SM 21
Ofsrarlroadiandisteamboatiecompa nies see. ese sell eter lee aie eral 31
Of telegraph companies ...--- Seiad) = anfaneed seein sins sae eel ee eiee es 28
Cope, Edward D., check-list of North American reptilia and batrachia.----.-- 25
DISCOVERY, OL MEW) SPCCIOS as ee eee eae eee ee eee eee ae 25
Copeland Ralphy letters from= sss see eee bua batts seeaeee cee 64
Coppeemrlemn ype Gen breast ae ea eerie nee eee Pas state hs sissies DG. (>: Ok
IMOtiOn sb Yi 3 5:58 oo ee oar ee eee Sasa cinerea a ee eee ee ears XI
Correspondence, anthropological, abstracts trom... <. <2 conte ceene eee 826
Of exchange service... os ese alae hana ale aan ohare ee eee oe 78
Oniastronomieal announcements == eis s eee oe ee eee eee 57
@orrespondents, iat OF aoe se oe apetls Sie ere ei ete stare te ee 79
Costa Ricayexplorabions ino sce messes eee eles Sele nee oe eee ihe 20
The Guatusomndians Of 5 2b ss sees salee ee te oe ee ec ia) ee eeeree 675
Courtenay, E. H., arrangement of meteorological observations...-...------- 22
@ox,;, Hon:Samuel:S.,) Regentis. crete jncle ae sin aces miele erate ala eee ela
Cranial amulets, prehistoric trephining and ..........-.-..-..-=------.----- 46
@rawford and Balearres; Lord, letter from): - 3-2-52j--3- 5] /s2<jose0 oe est eee

Crystallocraphy, notes on.------.2--.--..c- Pee ae ae eee ee 535

INDEX. 837

Page.
Cunard) Steamship Company,..co-operation of. <..23-..2¢2 22-22. cos. te ece 2% 31,89"
Cup-shaped and other lapidarian sculptures, observations on .--..-.--.---- . 46 -
Cushing epee. Exploravlons yj saqecie ate so cekeise wise escalate seta jee ialeleiatel = 18
TUNE) (MOnyGranVeNe shy (IE TOES WHE Hhac | ooona map cobe coo aetee HUSakcE Sede seccne 47
INESEDIREINGS) OE ogapay donc ehoqde osaSaaboaseadeduoousdseo dasonacoesd sosbedos 46 -
D.
Dakota language, grammar and dictionary of the .................----.---- AT
Dale wUrenresearchesvoies ees, i soctas aatiae cre cacy ebsre eee Sissi ee sale cel oceania 21
Dall, William H., honorary curator, National Museum..........---.-.-...-- xe
WEE CHUTEN Dyes ceases nee sre ciaeeeracseiss Bes he wei) oetceie seeree = Soe sine cisiersisate 10"

EAD ETSMD eee acre rato se eee reer ciarae ne tata a om etnies, clayme eel etemtsle ea areas onde. eeu) eagle

Palletin boultonsd&-Comco-OperablonvOlpcsecae ce acis es toed cossice se hei seiseie el 89
Dana, Edward §., report on progress in mineralogy ...--.....---.-----.----- 525
Davis, Hon. David, member ex officio.-.- ...-..---. 2222-00 2-22 oon nee XIX
VE DOM bees eee icis eke micleie stateteloieisiarste cle ciao Sian lcisterslaim cts aeetacie seeere ce ok ORM IES
Declaration of Independence, manuscript .......-.-.-...-.....-------------- 43
Deering peony Nabhanieli Gr mince OIG rec ics) ay=/sleimisie eva = te orate oe malaga rtm yat Ney gn DEN re
MenMIsOn, wLhHOmMaAd.;CO-OPELattOMOl ac osia ecole cce ccs acres cee cle ee pate ee 89
Werbyse wee collections received trom seh Je seem se cee eee mee seis bess 21
Dewey, Frederick P., assistant curator, National Museum.......--....-- ft Dox
OHemicalkassisbant) ss sono seal sna sete toate is artes aia ae eines ola recieves feneralototeiate 152
IREPOLU- Olt oee ose aes sees ee aise aieiee slow aoe an eaees ene eemisaateee einen 154
Skecehtotwiteiot Georvenw. (hbawesat-ns toe ae oes eye wei clone enero eer <1 oO
Dictionary and grammar of the Dakota language ......--.......--.-------- 47
Of Mlamath-Bnohishes sso 22s ss. coSee stan sas coc estecss cemeltesieeceeeioces 47
Diseshiot-atomie weights bysGeorge Beebeckerss.25.5) 2. face ee oe eee eee 22,
DIScoverysOLone wamineralilocalitiesin. ss. censao ee cieeiiniee ae Se a esata a ctelSiais 541
Distribution of duplicate specimens of marine invertebrates.....-.--..--.--. 144
Of fishes of the Alleghany region of South Carolina, Georgia, and Tennes-
SECs Dy Waves sOndanesteneee eee aes FE ee se ee ors EES eS AER 22
Of public documents, Congressional act respecting ....-....---..-.--.---- 271
Wonaldsonwhhomas: obtained collections) ss. cots ao aay seeivese ase ei cielele 7,8
Worseyn JO wen, weoihalanouaren. sonics oi-icccers one wclee ieee saat veei erento 47
Governmentiof ithe! Omahasice= assess so ee tcc ce eee se mises occie ete ooaierte 47
Method of recording Indian languages. secosse esses eee neal sae 46
ResearchesiOfiesaacssacissaclccoiee saake Seco nl sae Se shee oa atc in ole clsioretsjateiarets st 45
Dow Capts JohmeMe(cO-OperatlomlOLasw. cess soem ccle otse et see a eae coats 20
Draper prenty death: Obs ..<scscs soe = ac.sule seb wae aasige anise waaces ese cieslemaise 39
Presel ve G., assistant in deparbment of fishes]. 4 52-55-12 soss sees = oss see Sel od
DucésvAs collections madebys 2.552.242. '2 Jes nctnse sane e Soee sua, cues teats 19
Wuplicatewmvoices forexchanees) q.c- -cees wea cee ee ane soe sel eee nee 7
Specimensiof marineunverte brates|s= soso eles ee ae 144
Duplicates and exchanges of the National Museum......-.-.......-.------- 122, 123
E.
WawerchH. (S.5-exploravlonsiby secs socatewincy se Sesose Ma sunet on eee meer a see sc ce 44
Hehinodermsn Obes! OMe asic seegae seieisiciee ine isis cere erecta a ine ciaecic ect 575
Heconomic geology, department Ole. so. ssscselss io - ee sate eee a eeeceel eases 152
Eggers, H. F. A., flora of Saint Croix and Virgin Islands. ............-..-..- 22
Hisen) Gusatavcollections made) bys ceelsme a= stele eyseisce a syste alaen eal siate 17, 20
DISCOVERY LOL NOW: SPCClOS aa apn iacicie Sieininys sels -Jicininl se sieisinie) sme sinio cies ee eiwaelas 25
Wiorkspertormed ibys... 354 fetisinae cena eine ase inas beeicinis deiste nel Seln wise 20

PP Les Faad ATM EETEEO OUT eS. sc sys eee ee ea A ste Sele Nt aie oe Selec ee 45
838 INDEX.

Page.
Electricity, notes OD ...cc. .eenns ono nen ne woe ne eee cee ene ene oem ne e ne = 489
Atmospheric « . -.2. 010 02 etm sas enn mentee nee oases ceva sins aon ee nein ieee = ome 422
Electric service of the National Museum.-----.--.-- -2- 2-222 eens nee 125
Embryological investigations, by John A. Ryder .....--..----.-.----------- 156
Endlich, F. M., paper in Museum Proceedings...- ..------------------------ 27
PIOZOICITOCKS ea eee cen eles se eee eee ee eae nee ee 25
Ethnographic chart... -... -.-------- s--20+------ 02-22 - eons oon ee == 47
Ethnological collections. .... ..------------.----+--++2+----+----2------- oer 44
Ethnology: <--- - <<< ccs anleeeens seesaw ees -n= <senie eres eaeale masini oeaan 645, 662
Bureau of, report on. operations.0f2 2... .25-cc: seueiceps ee eee eer ee 1
Mixplonations by -s2---'< <<< sen = ame ee minal a ai ore ol 18
North American, Congressional act respecting.........--.---------------- 265, 266
ComtmibutionsitO.- ose see e a ceeare ara sre leitai ee ete ore eae stat ahs oleae nestle etre tare 46, 47
Exchanges, international .... ......--2+ 2.2255 202 -- fee eens teen nae es eee aes 77
Appropriation for... 22). 22.22 bo -/en ows cacees ome cee oes seen nase ene 3
Centers'of distribution) of 222-222-232 --.-=-- Se cee also elaine Sie teria eam 91
Congressional act respecting... -.-. 222.5 2-2-0 + cena = eons enn -- === 265, 266
Deficiencies in Smithsonian publications for exchange .----..-..---.------ 78
Deh divert ewes o Beebe Seek e Bok abcd does SHES Bocce ones cede cbgcescc 78
DOMESTIC ETANSMISSIONS =a si ata alae aoe alee a eee leet 85
Horeign) Transmissions) <--c6 oes bee oe etoile ele ee eee ene ee 82
Government clansmisslOnss ses esee eee ee ase sel se See tee ale eee eae 86, 106
Imnistiohicorrespon@entser mes a. se eee eee ane eee ae eee cise 79
List of official publications sent during 1882..............---------------- 107
OftheiNationalMnseumest.22cck coe ace enero em eek cisne One eee eee 1OON 123
NRO CORPUS: sa cisee jo misat nine = el ciciniele Sania ea sida ara Ra wiete ale aleeielec stale a eee 82
IREMOTbOM = cae me ersee tee ee ere ieeiee ese oaetele eile eye lee ene See ee eee ene toner 77
ulesirel abiviento eesceets see eeeeee ee ee eee ee aie eae eee ene $1
AMES OMe H Kory Cosn shes) Seaocos Acuna Goode s cbaroS s6onsesesc oSeesceassAc 88
Hxecutive Committee report of ©: -2-. 4-222 ane Soe. Gee cies neseee eae es Dv
Report accepted by Boardiof Regents ...- <2. 25. 2.222 te2 semg co a== oon xI
ixpenditures;accountiolss-.5 2. a Sota oe eee ee eee eee XVI, XVII
Experimental physiology, department of -...-.. 2.22.22 222- vee een enn or ae 156
Exploration, department of, in National Museum....-...-.........-------.- 155
Explorations by the United States Geological Survey .-.--..--..----.-----.. 48
iin? Central America jreportiofeese seer ee ace ae se see oer ieee eee seas 803
Exposition at Louisville, Ky., Congressional act respecting. .......--..----- 268
International Fishery, at London, England .-..-.-...... 222.02 ..-2.0+-es 56

F.

Farlow, W.G., papers of, im Museum Proceedings .-.--. 22.2. ccs cane veccee - 27
IRepert On progress i DOAN se eee eee ee soe lelaie eter feet ee ee 28, 551
Pauna au. Cape salina, lucas, Calttormiaen =a escees ac gene a ee eee eee 18
Fay, Joseph S., presented land at Wood’s Holl -...........-....-----.------ 51
Fernandez, Don Leon, the Guatuso Indians of Costa Rica -...-..--.--...--- 675
Hinancesoruhe  nstitutionisce see cee ae oe oe eines Bea eee ee ence ee Vises
Fire-proof building for United States Geological Survey ...-.....--.-------- TEN
Fire-proof building for National Museum, Congressional act respecting -...- 264,265
Pre-prochnejOL SW vOSOBIAN, «cnn ccecincl cise eh eee eee anteater XII, 2,.3,.4
Shy COMMISSION CCOUNG Of WOT Ob mee eee leer ate etree erie 49
Fisher, W.id;, collections made Dy =. -c22-c -2e--% ere 2 eee Seater eee 16
Bushery census or 1660s eri) ek are stew are eye aie ee ne eee 55

Fishery Exposition, International, at London, England ........------..--.-- 19, 56

INDEX. 839

Paze.
HEE COU OOS) OP oo osdord soesndac boo bon GooDne SopS.Godddd Hebd denna icoecee 19
MO WARbMOM Ole nis mec ea sk sie ae aiae alee ome ant niclwisin/ )=foaletalese'eislininiej= miaai= 126, 136, 205
Of the Pacific coast, bibliography of, by Theodore Gill.........--..----- 22, 26, 122
Mieyreldere inde, TeeIRD |O\-cosnoe S505 odo S505 end Sado soda cde écesososabssoe 10
On prehistoric trephining and cranial amulets..................--.------- 46
Flint, James M., honorary curator, National Museum ......-........-------- 2OX
Hora of Washington, guide to, by 1. P. Ward.: 22. 2.225 22.22. ceccen cane 122
Of Saint Croix and Virgin Islands, by H. F. A. Eggers ............-....-. 22
Hlonidavexplorablons) ieee eee ease ea alan jacle rela eleieie lela els (cleie aie otesieia) sainrale te 18
Goldisilver)and other ornaments found Ine \js2. cos cnc -aia/=c-s anise 791
prehistorl emem ans lessee eee ere ara cetie wise ccc eieiesis ercieraye/ mein) cinictelaeyeia sioreis 7714
Shellieapsiot CharlottevearbOtes cst nee aelcce sec coche cicieeicevesicisns sfoineis aici 794
Roleer Hon. Charles\d)-,) member 62) OflGtO rae =jala ae salsa la eel annie eielfal=ini eet ae lero XIX
JDrorel tyes, Si. aka, JRC! hy sc6o a doon56 GooehE core oacnoe suooodbocu Seo paSeCo bone 187
Foreign correspondents of the Institution.........--.....-.-.-.--.---------- 31, 32
INVOROIAN GROTON Ako a dulssed Coenen dood sane SoEden so0e Sosnue qaabece 32, 82, 86, 88, 90, 91
Foreman, Edward, assistant, National Museum ...........-.....-..--..---- XX
Kossilinvertebrates, department Of 25-2 5 <2 scsn\esciaae Anien\s-scce - ese 127, 149, 221
TA Evatis) Gy hE TANTAMNIA(S) 8 Sodc soon eee ceo Gaba OaoAtE coDBcosnboos pasode sooceasc 150
Frelinghuysen, Hon. Frederick T., member ex officio ..-..-.-..------.-------- XIX
Ban chasbidverc1© o1CO-OperauloniOleas-\- sees ee aeaee eens oar eeeiasee ese 89
Furniture and fixtures, National Museum, appropriation for ..........-..- 264, 265, 266
G.
Carheld seresidemi eatin) Otinassaciscsotiainctoeico cerca reeeicise selisisielascisseieciceise 2
Comaein, Ibis It, Giseneanesl 1s) Chay cco5 Coco Seon couo Hous Geseos soon Coco UKs bone 42
Assistant, department of fossil invertebrates ..............-. .----.s22200- 149
Gatschet, A. S., and Garrick Mallery, ethnographic chart ..........-....... 47
Chief deities of the; AmericanIndians s22- -2- 2. o2-= .2oces cose ce Sosa ene 47
Egan nal Moyes) GIeaNe TAY -oc655 Sooo jcdoce canoes condsn asoonsnosecossags 47
Method of recording Indian languages ..........-....----.--------------- 46
RESCALCHESIO Lessa cr a Aaa Ree cace wlan Sale micens ae cise swicn wicletarcig miaeicis oeeiotns 45
Synonymy of the tribes of North America..............--.......--..----- 47
Geography, report on progress in, by F. M. Green ......-.........-.-------- 347
Bydrorraplys- sees cre a= cm es sees lsmesia<smicce coe ca secn «Sa aeatnsisniae ciao 348
Ibias) iP TH CAM 54 oo b55 cob 555 Sod5 Sood bo Sods aesee Ss sseaeshocscn Jose 351
INOTENPAMMOLIG Hes ie meee sacle aces a eianee in) snete aieie fale asta latalap Sethe tele! a al Serale 352
S OUbNSAMIIET Careers se eee alate la fe ate ee oe eet Sie ee icine Sis etme micas cretnerera yaaa eras 355
JAROUIO LATO Se Si Goad pono ao odoooodS Haba dos6 caay pcuoereccen.cacccces Seat do?
INSTT Sos Gags pauesaa5 Boon daooce Ubbecd OceH BaoSeu onus eageeuiT Sunes iol ate 361
/SEUICR ou 55 stlbede BOOu Dbae Hee PEE COO TAO RSAC OrGSe csioude CAS Cou nOoHoeiciE oa OnHt 363
Geological survey of Brazil, collections received from........--.---.-------- 21
Of the United States, explorations and collections by.-............-.------ 8,9, 48
INemy lomtilehnaramel eal Wore SSS es hoe bos coocdo skdese scacenas dee cubs cosece XII
IRGiNOMT Cites 2a se ceooan sob cong coded once Hobocu Sede seed dene aot becca dcccece 47
Triangulations and topographic work of.........-.--.2-2 ---------------- 48,49
GeclocyPiconomic, department Of- se. oe secon ean ie me eae 152
Geology, report on progress im, by I. S. Hunt. 222. - 22c eee e eee ne = --eon 329
J ATTA VON CORN Ae ee some oobo GoeS Oa0d Coa SaahCU cote Cauo boron USbOREosoebec 342
Ginpiinige)| Ger viay, Sao eae Be PRE poo poeae nese dd one nar Coons neenereT Sere 343
Classification ofeozoi¢ and, paleozoic rocks)... ees -ee-\s4- eee eine == lo == 335
WOZOICG MOCKS aes yas Lele eholeisl ape sine ane aei eo ne er eotete ain ieic hein areic a (eimiass 325
Grandi@anonrotiColoradoOss sac scoesocicle sae eoeiaie so isielae~ cins/=iseeacle|e sini 338
840. } INDEX.

' Page.
Geology, report on progress in, by T. S. Hunt—Continued.

Paleozoic rocks of Colorado. ------ ------ .-------- gcrtecceeceereeeee ce eee 337
Serpentine rocks ..-.-. ...--- -- 22 -- oo nn ene oes See oe cee carn eves ores none 341
MaGOnieTOCKS | tases ee see soso ses ne ee ee eel mente pelle elerale ele ieetets iter ees 331
Trias of Hastern North» Americar. 2222. 29 = alent aaa a) lot 339
Georgia, mounds in Putnam County .-..-----------------------------+------ 770
Gilbert, Charles H., collection of fishes---.-.-..----..---------------------- 20
Gilbert, Charles H., papers by, in Museum Proceedings. .----.-------------- 187

Gill, Theodore, bibliography of fishes of the Pacific coast of the United
SHEE \io ao BRO SAD Idoe GaaeotHs smog SSE Oso sedass cobsasodedadanssaneoc 22, 26, 126
Papers by, in Museum Proceedings .....--.---------- +--+ +--+ 222-20 ee 187
Report on progress in zoology .... .-+- ---- ----++ --- 225 e222 eee ee eee cee eee 28, 565
Glazier, W. C. H., in Museum Proceedings -.-...-..------------------------ 27
Glidwell mound, Franklin County, Indiana......---..----.------+---------- 721
Glossology, notes ON... ...-.- .e--e- Sennen cence eens cones cones sens conn ee 646, 665
Gold, silver, and other ornaments found in Florida. ..--....----.----------- 791
Goode, G. Brown, assistant director National Museum...-...-------------- xx, 44,119

Catalogue of the collections to illustrate the animal resources and the
fisheries of the United States ...........--..---+------- ------ ---- ---- 22
Commissioner to London Fishery Exposition .......--...----------------- 56
Papers by, in Museum Proceedings.-.--.-.---------2----++ -----+ +--+ +------ 27
Report on National Museum -......-.----------- +--+ -----+ eee eee eee ee ee 44
Goode, G. Brown, and Tarleton H. Bean, papers by .------------------------ 169
Goode, G. Brown, and J. W. Collins, papers by -.--- ------------------+-+----- 170
Goodrich, J. King, assistant, National Museum....-..-----------------+---+--- 129
Gore, J. H., tuckahoe.or Indian bread) 2.20 )s2-2-4-=<1s-)seser soa eee ee 23, 28
Gould, B. A., letters from...-...-.------- +++ 222222 eee eee eee eee eee eee eee 66
Government of the Omahas, by J. Owen Dorsey .-..-----.------------------ 47
Of the Zufiis, by F. H. Cushing...........+.----- ---2-- 22-2 2-22 + 2-22 eee 47
Governmentioxehanges=-+ 222 se peseeo nia nweee meee ei eeee 32, 33, 86, 102, 103, 105, 106
Grammar and dictionary of the Dakota language....-....------------------ 47
And vocabulary of several Iroquoian dialects .........---.--------------- 47
Grand Cafion of Colorado...-.. ..-------- ---+ ne + cone cone eee ee eee eee teens 338
Gray, Asa, Regent.....-----..---------------- paocaocosse -escos ees socae= X, XI, XIX
Motion by oo. -cocccese -qcase sas 22-7 scene -ceees qo oes s ssmaee ao eelar =n XIII
Greely, Lieutenant, exploration by......-----.----+ +--+ +--+ +--+ --02 - eee eee 13
Green, F. M., report on progress in geography ..-..-.------------+----5-+---+: 347
Green, Seth, suggested propagation of California trout.....-.-.------------- 54
Green, W. J., electrician of the National Museum .......--..-----.----.-+-- 125
Greenland, explorations in ...--..--. .----- ------ eo 28 eee e pene ee noes eee eee 13
Guatuso Indians, the, of Costa Rica .......... ..---- -----. «2---- ---- - =e 75
Guesde, L., collections made by ..---------- ---- ---- +--+ - +--+ eres cee e eee eee 19
Guide to the flora of Washington and vicinity, by Lester F. Ward.-.-...--- 26, 122
Gurney, J. H., papers Dy ...-.. 02-2 --22s0 -0n- cone cone cee nnn nee oe cone mene 188

H.

Habel bequest. .... ---- 022. 22 eee ene e cone cee cee nee teens oe renee en cee renee XIV, 41
Halos, notes OM .-..-2.. 22-22 eee e nn ween cree meee cent cen cee cece nee e coc ene 437
Hamburg-American Packet Company, co-operation of ....-. -------+--+------ 31, 89
Hamilton bequest. ......- 2-2 2220 coon eee een teen cere cece ce ee ne eee eee nee xiv, 41
Hair of Sir Walter Scott presented to Institution -....-.-----.-- +--+ -------- 43
Hall, Asaph, notice of comets .... ..---. ---- e222 eee eens cee cee cee eee eee 29

Havre de Grace, Fish Commission work at .... ....- .000-- see eee ee eens eee eee 52

INDEX. ; 841

Page
LELDARASH! (EGU en ikioeene Sb coe ease oous Coder Ronse CrbOGr a Bocce Sco BS eLOOrS Pere 160
Abstracts of papers by American authors, published in the Neues Jahr-

IDUCH aD Verecteey orion aan sate eine els ioe sinters state met ere eae rene erecta 163
ASsistedsim prepara tloniotiwWwOrksice se ease ae teeecs ce ne come cicee cere 164
OSTA PIC AN MOUICE: Olea me are moe einen iets ares Aas seen ae ete 151
intchargeorcollection of building stones) 27.250 22. 2 ee sees sees 165
IDERIID Ol cos sego e605 poEe Sad eodinScy b600S55 KESHOE COSeee BSUaeoEeeEeods cone 35
ILFISI) GH PEW 20 Oy idee esc ladey Sosa Meco e OC cO SC OS HS ane aan ane chet Apap t 160
Oi MAByeMOULCONOL ce mama weeeinatn sete cam lgcwice ses sene se be seit ce ease wees 158
Papers, a0 Muscum Proceedings. 2c. -.ccte,sscco- -ase se edee sceeite cook 27

Hay .O- be paper Dy, On southern fishes! 2-2 5.-5 «--.)-- 52 s< 2s 4c) aeceeoelecee 18, 188
UNVAON hein, ASSIS NCU LOWLY ccc Soci Sec ases Ste saeco dees ee seed cece oa 42
Assistant in department of fossil plants, &¢ ...--. ..-<..---2--- nee. ooee 150, 151
GiB ECHOAEUMES OUD aeraatomeratae merle meieta(as facie a aaa ponerse sina eee eee eee 473
Henderson, John G., aboriginal remains near Naples, Ill....-...........---. 686
iHendersonidebrouher, €o-operabioniol so.) -2<)2- 22 2a se ise eee eee cece eee 89
Hendley, J., repairing of Museum specimens .........---...c2c5....0 ee 222s 125
Henry, Joseph, pubiication of scientific writings of .........--......-....--- XI
Henry, Mrs-eliarrich Ac, deatiol.22. <5 2 se 5 tne fons woos sce cina-2 sence ae 35
ICMR VMS LALMO ses ctersicle alas ase cca enajcoe ptasccms oe Sones ae celse esac es 2. G00 H 1A Gy;
Henshaw, Henry W., animal carvings from the mounds of the Mississippi
WGNIUIGhY Ge SER ORES AS AE oi Sey Pomme san PUP eagmmnls SAE Merah Lia ais Sa 46
Henshallire sel Collections made) Dysecsione ssisinaciscrnciee ne ece aoe nee nares 18
Henin.) © COMEChHONSs TECCLVEO TONY 2.05 22\-/to ajar eine Naas ose toes 21
Herron eV Ose ple. Weal itOhen ccs cemesotasce cea tacwsecrs sealer ne tent ane 38
Herronshhomas, collections received from jc-sss cesses oese cececee alee eee 21
Fp Ons Nannanieli ir. . MereN ts. co. se cea- sess esas aoe emaees ooee ee eee DST .GH:c, 0)
Here EMT phOvOSLAPHSHD ye eccije ak ees es te Ao e as See ee eee eee ts
Hiscock, Hon. Frank, application for shad for Hudson River ..--........--. 53
History of the Smithsonian exchanges, by George H. Boehmer .............- 23, 28, 31
HO AICy OE eG MOCHONS DY coscea Jaa oaiisciaw's Jsaeicn seca cease aoe oe eee eels 13
Hoare Hon MeOrge:.B . RePOMb) «a eiesecm aan ns ano races sence eeu eee ake XG NILA NATNG LO
HGHMAN VW Gtdis, INVES PAVIONS Of. 72052 seca - cowie tab ces aces ce otec sce ence 46
Holden, Edward S., report on progress in astronomy..........:...-.-..----- Lb PE
Studies in Central American picture-writing -.............2...------.---- 46
Holmes, William H., art in shells of the ancient Americans ....-...---....- 46
HisSsiEAeaCAbMOs Ue DY joc. jccies esis eee as cae ala nennceee clonic oe Soe 47
Homsher, G. W., the Glidwell mound in Franklin County, Indiana .........- 721
Remaimsiounyyhitewaberskivern ln diana eects se esse een eee keen eae 728
Horan, Henry, superintendent of National Museum buildings ............... 124
Horn, George H., and John LeConte, classification of the Coleoptera of North
AIMOEIC ANTE hiaelc seem ae suena eee Mesias eet es ate ce emer eae aye sey a te ems 24
Hornaday, William F., chief taxidermist, National Museunl............-.-.. 125
Mountingief specimens) wc ao.) aas ace meraansemicae asses ace oe eae ane keeem cee 16
BOE AD  ciaN wa aw eiclni ne Aree om isle ate enn) od nee a eennineh eee Soe eee & 1838
Houses and house life of the American aborigines, by Lewis H. Morgan ..... 46
Howe,tion. Timothy .O), member ee officio 22.015. 5 5- .sckede.cdsasneescckiseees XIX
Hudsonvhivens Shad 10% cs o.t:osealcisea cosa ee ok ee aoa ea ee 53
Hunt, T.Sterry, report on progress in geolopy -- ..22s..s0.ce cok ec Joe nce be ee 275, 325
yA ro PTA DM Y A NOLES ON). (2.7310 oe 5's == ji wcie alee ese ewes soe eee ces awede 348
VION ee NAMA IM USPUML OL. 2 025s sefecn Sours cactieee week cwede alee seus 43
EIyPSGMELICANIMAD\. 226, jc onic oct choc sbceiseodbedses saa bos estes seseauae obese 27

Elly BARES HEV BELO LER LOTR to Ses screen aie al ran iem ee, Mace. ih te eat 447
842 INDEX.

I.

Page.

Dlineis; aboriginal remains near Naples. 22... so .0 seein one ees ae =e 686
WknataVe y S 25 ees hos SSA a sadde oat tns subSee sodcse 259650 odasesesc5s5 see 683, 684
Illustrated catalogue, by W. H. Holmes, of Mr. James Stevenson’s collection - 47
dilustrationsin the sReporh,wndex ofee see sec eeaae sees eae -eeacaee eer VIIt
Imperial Academy of Vienna, Austria, letter from...........-...--.-.--.---- 58
income of Institution, appLropriahionlol acess cs ssere oH ee here eee er reer g-- XI
Independence, manuscript, Declaration of.........--...-------+-+ -s---- ---- 43
Indexing, circular relating tO << 22 - 222- << smteme mam wa eens = eleninini= Retsete a ae 5
Indiranginduspriess DyAO wry MSO Mey orel late ate ete ae aoa latte ae eee letter 47
Languages, iliustration of the method of recording ..-.----.-....-.--------- 46
Indiana, Franklin County, the Glidwell mound in.-..-....-.......,.-....... 721
Remains on wv ib be waiber kul Viele sates aewiel ee eleleteai= el tele alelele ie etetel elte te 728
Indians.American,ehiefdeitiesiot theses. esis ool oa scie ieee ee eee 47
NortheAmenican.ymorvuary customsiot thocem-mesceeeescaeea ate eer 46
site lennveqne vege) ARNO} ae boda e oe SAke ads onSsoo gosend sadabsluonsee cane cuiane 46
Skesehvor phemmypholocyaOt bh ee ertse eee ates ete ete ete et eta 46
ANCUsStries;-ndian by lO. me VaASON relate tate eins aae ieee aie eel aieeer iets 47
Ingersoll, E., paper by, in Museum Proceedings ...-..-..-.-.--. .----. ------ 7
Inman Steamship Company, co-operation of....-..-.-.. .2cc0..2-5s0--20 eee 31, 89
Inorganic chenusiLy, nO bes OMe ees eae ale lee eer 511
Insects; department Of, in) Museum. sees. san en eal sae = seal eee 142
Institute of Mining Engineers, offered specimens........-..--...-------..---- 8
International exchangesses casas eae taaisieee esis etel seta eich eee tae BHI Y//
Acknowledgments to representatives of foreign Governments ...--...----- 31, 89
Congressionallact Tespecbin gy as. .im siae ise = tate aie ae ate alee al = ae eta 265, 266
Momeshicwexchangess ee ecs sas esses see ecelsesk eles ciee eer 32, 85, 92, 100, 101
LORENA CORES DOMES 3450 Gono senso nsN nC pooGos/cSoc60 pedogs sodsas osseous 31, 32, 79
Horelgnvexchan ese rs ees cise aees mes tseees eeeeee eee eee 32, 82, 86, 88, 90, 91
CovernmMentexcGhanves=sacne ees aes as eieeel=saieenee see 32, 33, 86, 102, 103, 105, 106
Of astronOMicalenese auc Nee sae eee aes arate tea ieee ere ee ee ere ere 28
LEVER NIN CHE DEIR YER] Se Ce ee aaocca ne ctod Stecodede bene code 31, 32, 82, 85, 86
Transmission of packages......---. ---- 31, 32, 86, 8g, 91, 92, 100, 101, 102, 103, 105, 106
ihransportablon cOnipanies\sces-- soem cee memati een eters eat eerste 31, 88, 106
International Fishery Exposition at London, England.........-.....-.-.-.-. 56, 269
Introduction to the study of pictographs, by Garrick Mallery .....-.-..----- AT
Introduction to study of tribal government, by J. W. Powell.......-....-.--. 47
Invertebrates, department of 22525 [2525s Sse csc ecincisso cess 127, 143, 149, 216, 221
investigations by the; lnsiuhiOn \ oe. alee a= =e se ele ale eee 11, 803
Investigations by the United States Geological Survey - ...-....---..-...--- 48, 49
Invoices for,exchanges, made indi pleate no eee \o ee me a nando arate 78
Iroquoian dialects, vocabulary and grammar of ....-.........--.....------- 47
Iroquois, myths of the, by Erminnie A. Smith..............-.....-.---..--- 46

J.

Jaditescollectionsio£ vest scn2 cs aee sees oe sels eae els eiea i eeeeoe rt Eee 15
Japanxexplorations mn --- cece eee onic nieeeeerrne seer een SC AETC 21
Japanese lecation, paper Dyn cscs sceesocse Se ees = eee as eee ee eee 188
Johnson, S. H., papers by, in Museum Proceedings ..-...-..:.......-....... 27
Jordan) De S:, collections maderbyzeeseas= so. o es ee eee eee eos eee 19
Investirations, Of 225 isc 22 scene ao ce eelee Seleee ee ce cae Seine eee eae aeceae 18
Papers Dy skecdeit docs, aciccesu sae Jesse snes se aaeines aoe ere ee aeeaeeaer 27, 188

Jordan, D. S., and A. W. Brayton, on the distribution of fishes of the Alle-
ghany region of South Carolina, Georgia, and Tennessee .-....---.---- 22

INDEX. 843

Page.
Jordan, D. S., and Charles A. Gilbert, PADSTSID YT Ac ace ee eee cee 188, 189, 190
Jouy, P. L., paper by, in Museum Proceedings -.-.-...-.-)---2.-2-2- ----2--- 27
HRESEAT CHESIOL eye see nice aioe Sion ea ene asians ara) s a smeve meres tae al mesa /sie 21
K.
IReamibvostiol, INGy lerreie rigour 62s 556 sagac5 6566 conden code Gods Doan UagSeOnocobenocE 57
Reith Mire eEG-OpeNAtiOMmOls 5 ca-s essa 4 eae oes aan es tls Sees See ee 20
Kent, Benjamin H., mounds in Putnam County, Georgia..-.-......-.----.--- 770
King, Clarence, Director of United States Geological Survey ....-.......--- 9
Klamath-English dictionary, by A. S. Gatschet...........--...---.--------- 47
Koebble, Albert, assistant in department of insects......---.--.-- -----.----- 143
IN@ OIE, Cag ollorpnnols) Wal Soak Soo6455G ous wooo odor sobbed Boca pocs60 sassieann 16
Krueger, A., director of Kiel (Germany) Observatory ...-.-...---.---------- 66
Kumlien, L,, contributions to the natural history of Arctic America ..-..-... 22
KunhardibyéaC o7,co-operation Ofc 222.26 Socios occcysis oe peisisiscleain eerie tells 89
L.
ina belsiusedsiny Nation aleMuseumiis. ss osc fajacra 2 35 ssisiale alse ene ale <feieiaeee ieee 120
kaboratonygwomnaturala history sieaer ele ajo salalonaiesenisics ahelaeeataelsa = a
Laboratories in National Museum, fitting up of........-......-.-..--.------ 121
WabradoryexplorablOnswM}- cscs nec mies sess geSisaver = J acle cis slaecnie wie = sichig Sere 13
Hane uace volition Oli Dyj die Wi. ONE Heese ae erecta easiness elas 46
Indian, illustrations of the method of recording .........-.....--.....---- 46
lawrence, GeorgemN.,) Papers: DY ce sis oc ee sia aie sams aa l ale la ss sein ets )einlaie aloes 97, 190
Le Baron, J. Francis; gold, silver, and other ornaments found in Florida... . 791
ERP HISCOnIereMiginsni WLOELG Armco cee) Serer a e)e ame |cieceisie se = a = (<2 771
Le Conte, John, and George H. Horn, classification of the Coleoptera of
INOIbh Ameri Cate saree =e .e fe craie ieu a teeta sila Sein terepareaie a lreral errata hil SN | apo 24
I LX ATH TAS Thay INH BMONA NL Coe \oh orl eS Se A ee Boe Sy a Leak EE 10, 126
NV ATeM APO UINE bbiqecta eee <meta nies Siero ee chelnen ee eee S.ctis ic teerete siete tea cy ereinle 10
AV eae) aM erter einer Severe sieiviens Se Son Re seus ae ee Melati e eae eration 10
Roberbubleteh erin ae wk ees) Rone ete eee eee Sales laa ae Ave coe ata 10
he odorey Gills) Sie eerie otlciarslc re spare sti e ciarese ar slarerate ot area alellelatae feelers 10
OUISMEPMa somber Sernerce Caterers eee ote Mae eee sats ee tn et a 10
VOW OU meats ikea wee e teens COE eosucos Sete Reins ecs decioe eee 10
(Cho Wo ARH eo Renae See te IC AS Ee COR CICC IH BORO SCIE aati Ame seein Aen ah y= 10
itoe Ver be-feO<ploracions: by) ase os ones aa eee ee Ace otek te 21
Leech, Daniel, corresponding clerk, Smithsonian Institution......-. Spee ANS XOX
evislatureofNew ork applied for shad =: 2-20-2222 -- ns os sone ioe 53
abraryof thowknstivuplomee! sate tent = ook etek eck see berues ibe ee 33
OfsNationalwViniseumes see soe se eth see oe ea soe Selene ae eee se eee 6, 34, 121, 224
Of Spencer F. Baird presented to Museum library ..--....--.-.--.-.---.--- 34
Tob mM OGES OM ee safle sls Settle here scien si eels me ee as ea A Saye aie apt parerratraye 480
Lisht-Eouse Board, Courtesy Olees sae sacs cone see sac arses ete tater ste al
Limitations to the use of some anthropological data, by J. W. Powell....--. 46
iinicoln Hons robert de member enopiciomessaeese sae eeee ee ee eee eee XIX
hinenisties; Americans bibliography, Ofsses sa) 5-45244 se oeee eee eee ee ae 46
Linguistic manuscripts in the library of the Bureau of Ethnology.-...-..-.--- 46
List of foreign correspondents, by George H. Boehmer .........--.----.---- 19, 22
Offcontributors:to the) Museum) inl Se2s——e one = sees ae eee eels a 231, 263
Of generic names employed in zoology and paleontology.....-.----------- 27
Of official publications sent to foreign Governments.-.-.-...---..----.---- 107, 108
OfMublicanons.ot National Museums cosa nee sce sens ses cceyeec elsieysteeye ote 122
Lockington, W.N., paper by, in Museum Proceedings .-..-....----- bialctaleislere 27

Hondonphishenyebrchibiblon Aes sass > ceee coeion seieme ea Bee ee Pe eieiate 19, 56, 269
844 INDEX.
Page.
Louisville, Ky., Southern Exposition at, Congressional act respecting-.-...- 268
Emucas PrederickA:., papers! Dy :scc co ciccinsn ices ee creiosing cee se eerste mene 190
Lugger, O., paper by, in Museum Proceedings ..-..........----- eee eer 27
M.
McAdams, William, jr., mounds of the Mississippi Bottom, Illinois.......... 684
McCloud Riveristation of Pish:Commission= io. ----)s-o) see ete ee eee 54
McDonald;Marshall, papers *by.c2es 2-2 2s tka aacice et eee eee ee ee LOU ene
Experimentsiof, ;onsfishesss--eeaee ee eae eee ee eames een. Sere eee 157
MeKay,-C-sL.~ collections; made\byeccices cence concer ee ae eae ene 16.
Papers) by, ane Museum! Proceedingse2ee. 5 ose =ee see eens ee eee eee 27
MeLean; Ji..J collections .2o so. sheen ec cece sce > eae eerie eee ae eee 15
Mackall iCharles,co-operation (of 225292522 ecco mee tei ase eee eee 89
Maclean, Johns Regentrs):2a2cc cee seme cleie meta aie a ateraia alate) ere neater eNO Te RENO IDNS
Memberof, Bxecutive;Committees sa-c2- +2 aacs soe sees ee ee eee eas XVIII, XIX
On publishing scientific writings of Joseph Henry.-.-.-.....---.---------- SUE
MacLean, J. P., remains on Blennerhasset’s Island, Ohio River. ....-..----.- 759
Signal mounds of Butler County, Ohio..--..-.--.---..-.-----.----- --.--- 752
DM comme TSUN COTS DED ooo) aaege et ee ee 422
Mallery, Garrick, introduction to the study of pictographs.-.--......----.-- 47
On sign language among North American Indians .......-.......--...-.-- 46,47
Mallery, G., and A. S. Gatschet, ethnographic chart ...-..--..--..---------- 47
Mammals; departmentj0f csi). ss cts acis ne Se einice eens = ee eee ey tee 126, 131, 198
Manuscript, linguistic, in the library of the Bureau of Ethnology.-..-...-..- 4G.
ProanG aisuad'y Olassen ences eee ce ceinaeceeeee reat eteseernmeeemene Pee Bs Os 46
Marble, Hon. Edgar M., member ex officio aioggcielerale saleyacia Prtetarasta toe peinetae stare XIX
Marine invertebrates, depart OL sai seictersis nice Sete eee tance eee eee 127, 143, 216
Duplicate specrmens ee. ese see ee ee eaneeere Sinibleeie aisisicieetag state ere eeRee rere 144
Marnock, Mri discovery, Of MGw iSPCCleSe aa. em oe ae eelae ete eee 25
Marsh ee@ ©. vaseline d s60) GU yee oe istare alee oy aistera eae arate eee 42
Marshall, Henry, taxidermist, National Museum ...........--....----.----- 125
Marshall and Agassiz; list of generic names employed in zoology and paleon-
(OYA Ses Sonoda boo uta ses oseuSsS sods bdstes ooose Sess asssssSbesss Secs 27
Maryland, antiquities in ivanuutctod County; 2 --=-- Fe aisha ease So ere 796
Mason, John specimens furnished topene staat es eee a ananassae ato 156
IPRVORLe lO! eSeepanood ofr casoob See JogSooudaséon sccoue séccuobeee Sodcitscdesd 191
Mason, Otis T., abstracts from anthropological correspondence -....-.-.----- 826
IUGGNBbRE hy¥eea cobs coc cedadsasn Gases sadésoosas tose be mnie owls crisis sieteigl Sec 10
OnAndiantindustries Ys. 08 ose eS ow sialon eine cai alo Sol sieraysioenaiste telaeras 47
Reporbjon progress mranthropolopyees- eee see ae eee eee 28, 633
Massachusetts, Provincetown, shell-heaps near. .-.-.....-.-..-------------- 799
Mather (iiredspapersib yc. sac sce ao eee eta te nate sic ant er arta eee eal ate 191
Matthews, Washington; the art of weaving among the Navajos....-...----- 47
INGEN OCU Gri RI Veh Ssenibakdioaco heehaos Sond sobsdonssbisede ddbc cbse céenac 46
Maxey von. Samuel bee embraces sei eele eels Eclat a ete eres ke ER Rea
WI OME thy Basan SaaHobo bese Soe sUousSesd Some boas Dotdeo Goce dacboeedeb dacse XIII
Maya and)Mexican manuscripts=-2--— seme ee Sanat oe a eee eee 47
Mechanics) motesiOnes so cesier seen eaters a eet ene ert nee cncieac tee rale sete ratat 461
Mectine of Boardof Regents. <22-5 sen-cce a= aie em eee e ase ete oe ae XI, 2
Meetine sof scientific bodies == sass ae ise asec ee stele lee eee eee rete 10
American Institute of Mining Engineers... .---..-..-.------------------ 10
Biological Societies sae cack eee peek eo eeta ra oie rete na ee ae tae ete eters 10
imectonessunderithe auspices hese tan eae se see eae eee ee 10
National Academy, of Seiences\.go22-s20-2- sss es eee eee eee ae pe ee 10

National! Dental Association... =o. oe eee ee eee ee eee eee eee 10

INDEX. 845

Page.
Meigs, General M:'C., thanks tendered’t0 - 2-22 24555 sd hectaecoes «sce oe 2
MVETCOTAD COMES Gareas = seers con ee tee cso a eG rc eialaela, = ERIE ene Pees 40
Merchants’ line of steamers, co-operation of.-.......2.. ..222050c0 o400 pocces 31,79
Merrill iGeorse b>. assistant, National Musemm oss 4.2 4esceee saeeee eee eee Ox
Metalllursye depambmentlolie eerie ices, soe ees ars oe see ete ee 152
Meteorological observations, by Alexis Caswell .......-. Jos Some a le See AS 21
Meteorolorygprogressin; by ©. Abbe. <1. 6eise is so ee dw ce aes oe be ae BN BOS
NUTONE INCR ean ats sae iscle teers sepa oss ce eto dere s oeicises wie me nats swoon eee 386
AM OMIGMELOLS a DATOMGLOTS, GEC 5 coo setioe Sisco ens He eels eee eaanlaeacwee an sokee 386
PASS Pere sOlec tel by esas cat at ose m coccinea aan mieeleoeace Pore tn cco 422
J ADEE ELT SS). Bc AR Cicer SRE 3 CRESS are a race a 422
BALO METI CEPLESSULOMS eset oe esis oe apt aie cise als wy Sra cide aes oe Se 420
(CUITTA S88 See Be EC BOOS Bece Rese OCT COC Ear aE eine ie ae nInnT waa pir wt ev op: 382, 453
BA ORMO Mes nae see ecce re ne ateaae.< ease sclera h seal ce Ee 416
Rs Tectea th OG MELE TNS goin otetn eine ates cee ola ela ie oy ake sia) esl yates a ste halen, = ay he Sep 422
DEE Te | bbe od Deg GRE Sap SEARO OREO d TAEICS OEE eR NT eae ca aa iag A tn ya ARLE 0 437
LSE LASTS os oecgegec pone Sonooeie Oo SC ESOS CHE Soc nee Mare rmlss ae Bogade b2oscoat 447
IBV SION WA. Sad gaseteacocond conc qéae Con UNOEeo Hece cade econ © Soocdcocnesee 447
PEP REDL oo Opie segs Se SERIA oe Ie ee ae ee ai en SOE, = Ae 416
Hes eee: DEO AANA pene nin aye sial ais wij prake ial See mie oe pci ices chaiee here 437
I RAERE MEMO We ors cree aaa am'a'al Sas eons nw w apace ata ee wie oe mene okie eee 413
Special SUAtLONS) ANG WOEK. 2. ccna waimes.o es se senas woos ~- wares Sa crelsiae sees 365
SHORING casa ceaindun sobs 6es5 bend cose bee Sones aesoes Skeolasra soios cH Bees None 421
INGE ME) ETA WIETN AS Kos sao cons aor O Dobos esubia Ao robdbe suse saeaaes 422
Herre oa leremipena kone weyers meses eerste here a ncieernee Ses e eee eee 413
CHILDERS Sea Aig CED EEL NDE AE INI Trica INES Oh en PUR ae ReRL cee 418
Mexicanvan deNtayal ManuUuscriptsasss as-is e eee eee ates eee eee eee 47
MERIC O TEX IOT ALONG MIM chain hota 2 clare i aeisseie nots are Saree ae ae ae eee eee 19
Middictony james! Ds vexplorations Dys-a- sce. 5-o5 se ce oie smee ee ee sees 44
Rinaele ti nViClor.explOTatlOus, ce). soon oe,jr oss 45 Hae: Soe ace See ee 45
Preparcaumod elon puep lOve ta Zinta saree eae 47,125
Miner eh yh yasslo neds tOvGUibyiy. etsy ree ete ee Se ee a 42, 137
Mineralogy, report on progress in, by E. 8. Dana..................4. re se 523
OJ EV SETI G2 MOTTE eo 2s AEN a ee Ue a er gp Eel 538
Crystallography and physical mineralogy ...-.-....-.....2..02.+eseeceeu-- 535
Disceveny obnew mineral localities. ous. 2322020 4e oe Sol 541
Genera VOUKS Of MIEROT AOR YT cess: <i Aaperaaina aye cisicinn a nciu'a sailors aie ge ee aaseiae 533
Ne WII A Seek orem ere soe cept aici Seavey stat ira: slate a= | atet eet ey as shel neem SE eS 543
Minerals, department of, in the Mrseum ........-..-22-. 22-22. 2-2. ete ween 151
Mira we MOSER ION: cafe's Cem elise Soe sana onions ce = an cca dac a Geen bua ise 437
Misceliancouskcollectionsspulblishedyosss see sn eae soe ee en ae ee ee 29
MISSISSIpPPiebouLom, Wlinoissmounds Of these. 577222) sas eee ae ee eee 684
Matchell js: Weir, material furnished to." 2.3. .o22 <.\oa: «cee cee ganienen 156
Model, relief, of the pueblo of Zuni ........ BE SE ae ee ray 47, 125
Mollasks:angdsmOlNuseOidseo 3% fo) 2a ac) dae peso tae mia ss ee a oe ee 588, 589
MepaLtnien, of in ther MnsewMmes to...) es ees eines who eke oe orale oreyys pees 126, 139, 214
Moore, MA. paper in Museum: Proceedings .s25.22ossen se cees toe. oases Coe 27
Ora anw Ie WISE, COAbN Ola. <2 ohh 2 Gis ceceees ok eRe ae ea ad 39
Houses and house life of American aborigines ................2..2.---.--- 46
Mortuary customs of the North American Indians -........-.............-.. 46,47
Moulton, J. H., collections made by .-... ..- #5 (oratata (Horan eae ee ea aN Sergey ee 16
1A OVERS (EIS) ES EEN aU CE BO Se a a Cet NE DM 44
dC arralliCounty, Tlinois: <5. 2.5. .t0 schon te OAR EE ss oe 683

BripL Serine COT Uy ONO Ce ot. tia: ad acoder aa te a Say a Ua a 682
846 INDEX,

x Page
Mounds, examination of—Continued.
Inge utinam) County; Georgia ya orice eae eee eer ene mashes 770
Of the Mississippi: Bottom, Tllinois Soccecee asses eee eet eee eects 684
Murdoch’ Professor, researchesiDYyea-cio oes seee eset eee eee eee eee eee 15
Museum. (See National Museum.)
Museum Of iy eien@s o-oo coietcretcvse tals Seal olen eas nice eee eee ar Oe Shes 43
Muskoki confederacy, by J. W. Powell. . walbie Eero Seren ene Bambee tate nite 47
Mythology of the North American iene omnes Scorer of. Bare nc Anes crac 46
Mythsiof the Iroquois, by, Erminnie Ay Smith. -22sss= 2 eee onee ee Seen eee 46
N.
National Academy of Sciences, meeting of j.0.00 cc oc ets one eee eee cena 10
Dental Association, meeting Gfinic see cen scr See ose eal ee oca sarees 10
National Museum 22.22. 2vice ce eeeices cibieloreraitaW eine aie tsramtee ratiomye eso See lL 119
WA CCESSLOMS nee y che peter eee ere tates okclea net yey el Mera eae ip Spee tats peas 1 oT 126, 195
PA CCOMTUES ys recite 20s oleracea yer ches rel erate esp REEL Far pa eg {RV OE a ee ce MVS
Appropriations TOR 2 oa, soos. coe eelcee cesses eens ene een Soe ee oe Xam OO OG
Pibliography of publications suc savsowre as eels woe doce ae ceme eee eae ene aee 167
Bulle times Ofe sees e tat ere tek erdistereferarereralens ele ereteeclo Gre etleve crates aeaee iol are 25, 26
Boil Gan Gee Peers aia ojoraisisichoyniaetslorsiamectomeay serene ojos Syne ee eee 5
MOE STS 1 Wa yee ge oe tee age ae ioe eC Gee =e ote ber sede sc ee 5). 5/119
Committee, reportiofeo.oatin's sSarcice ci cmcme toca eae ese ee en eee 2
Department ofantiquities..c-.seecsec eee e one eee Ree eee ee eens 126, 127, 195
Arrtacanid in dUsbrien copes e/ara/s clacton aera seoreeeee aoe. eee 123
Bird Sh iciere aps. crecistersistcracisarcie ese we ow lars ioe Sere evdias Wen pestle es eee 126, 131, 201
CHEMISHLY yo serejerarateree naern clelsteise eee bs netns arametare eerie /e sc AISI cece arses 155
Exploration) and tield-w ork enc < Sede atareieroieser oes erie Se See erleee 155
Experimental physiology wilelars eialad ole! <loiele ta slaseten otsiziele ci etl eels cick eM 156
PSH eG ivoniaactess cin setaherslen yorercts really alcarbie eataretal sit SII LEER ER ah et 126, 136, 205
Hossil:in vertebrates: ai. cicwed ace casen ae late ie yee See cern eee 127, 149, 221
Possil) plants heir o/s vrsterevc Bos wrateisyaeseeiatetare aisrepors to acl nae See Sea aes en 150
ANSOGCES yet ele dioiectarettie.c ae eh occ Olas eee tire clams sala nine eee ere roeee 127, 142, 215
Marine invertebrates iis.s)cs) ic csde es os ot eecermscieciowelcee ce aeteinemes 127, 143, 216
Miami mal soc. ssarctbomtiots'saiebtasciate crete oars drrovatcloweemrcs ince cies eholorete lo ee arom tare 126, 131, 198
Metallurcyandveconomic: geology a2 ce sce selec eee = eee 12751525023
DI GECT 21 aR a a Lee ct APR Oeste A ant & PAYS OTe Tees cee *.. 2.127, 151, 222
Moos ooo) oot ieere Sate ae seer Riera rcls Saisie clea demittere Gatco ae COIS OMe
WE Sa om OO ROR Oe EOS kom Se SBA OOOO Ose b EA ESR OSS GOR ODD DAS Gore Sanbup aocS 225
Reptiles osteo be eecteeeetcionitectiteee oes otitan Sat aauaeme seiner 126, 135, 204
Rocks and building stones i220 .2s55 50 cece wae ceesene sn ees 127, 152, 165, 223, 230
Wivariawsai22 ce ee caccee te ese Senate sete bin eaeces e onleiteemm oslo siecice 157
Duplicatesiand exchanges 7.2/2.7. ease oe neio to aot atae eee steee meee ae 122
Bilectric service yoicii nes al se ae ION Scene a ee 125
Fire-proof building , Congressional ACU MespeCtings ass Gos wce cman eteee 264, 265
Mabels ace seis cpslitso cele o Bee Sener erste ete Sane sone eee ns 120
Laboratories): 22sec cescesssn cts. cidade atecs dase Sloedes joe sees eee 121
Lectures ecess oc ne ic seas scut babe Sema emeiee eee etente tere Sisal eee nearer 126
ibraryoese ose. ceed Ree eeecese eee euereeee Sedite aes 34, 121, 224
List of contribwtors 2260.62.06 bee Pe ee ee 231
Natural history, laboratoryiof <2 25 fan sean les sateen nea seat seen 7
Number of--visitorsito 2h) isl Sle to ala cadaver tee Steet aan eee eee ae 126
Officersiandsassistantsiof cso seses sec eee lee oe ee eee eee eee xx, 167
Preparationof specimens: os. occ 4-5 ceticce ve ceeetee es seas se eeace eee eee 125
Preservation of collections, acts of Congress respecting ....-..-.----.---- 264, 267

ProcéedingsrOl sor. He ascias isis ters acaee cess ies eate ae ee Reena eee eee ee wd

INDEX. 847

National Museum—Continued. aie
ERO SEIN Ay LUGE SIND DUES onno5 cob coos coc gods Seee50 pedbor dong secosy soc os code 123
LEAT) ON DORI To) aS) 08 Re Sis Im Sali i AOE CNIS Re RRC aha cece ameSrl mie Vis xeaes a 121
Reportotiassistant directonob so. sass seas ook ccs Sots Sees ee eee ees 119
EPOLmOnvOperavlOnsiOfuecicr steele seers cs sine seielel = loess tech tees 44
SOOMMTORMIDTaLY 22 ose a4 se ceine + posses ae ce aise, chile se enetsa tere eivete ets 6, 121
HechionrohmmMaveriay Medi Cas, sseejae sone ea omloela sais 0 slnicise s/o sola lee etateleeets 225
Specimenstom distribution Jose seer ieee cies secscaace ROPE eh PSs one fh 52
Storage and archives.... - Abate en abe Sada SEOSUoICOgeUpInC OS GO Codbed GuGsas saae 121
torage fori Coan. Bose eae oe cnsie nie 55 sees, == ssisdjlc i amemeentaa= EPS ars 6
WesesitherAmmorys building 27s oe. oleae sericea sn Saale ac wise atainialaice cre neercerenes 6

Navajo silversmiths, by Washington Matthews ..-...........----.--------- 46

Naval Ossi hesartior weavinelaMmonp era o osama a ncielea cee lasitete eemetornesers 47

INavalcadeusrassion edi tOdUibyp act rincieo <cleis aie ole secre siejue cicielee seeeresie tel etae 41
Museuimpofeblyo1en Of i eect rere si) dinis | Scio oyal alain ental vate aiay'cwial a eiaiee Stee 3
Observatory, international exchanges, Congressional act respecting .. --.. 265

Navarro nniN |CO-OPClaviOn Olea. .-)-o.m cise) s=.cescnis eee be, sees ee ores see 89

Navy Department, international exchanges, Congressional act respecting - -- 266

Neb ea yMOLESIOMe 5 a cecac)eie ion eicie lelcie cid atelmisiadelaeies ste sjeheldojerelee sistem aioe seine 277

INC ROIGHAy Gc obad Haageeone COBB EAE BODES Ge ACIie Shes HOE Sr eee se Semen Som rnicle sr 35, 365
Hen Ty TADer esses cee ae cmerbetine a taoe Solemn ate Soar eee ee ee oaeeee 39
(GEOnS CRWE pA WES elope rarsel--a a a sovocis osatsininis) oie tan ieisc <epela Mere pote Meee 39
MrsaiiarricbrALy henry aise isek 206 aaciecepicie sci ca caisio a sid nusinsts ee teen eeeens 35
SWOSeD HUES WELOEROM at ote oasis eynin aie ciorsie elaine ciseche a abinaitiate Aa ieee sole nateeisetate 30, 38
TS vy Sw lle LOT aa efor s ee Fe da eg ai ar ANA IA VAD, Os pal nie 39
Josepha un canyrutma meee sats ects classi aeile a se eiicekee cael-leneac eee eee 39

Nelsons) Drs icollectionof reptiles) 2025. c-e2. se ee eee cee ee ee ee seee 20

Netherlands American Steam Navigation Company, co-operation of .....-..- 31, 89

Newcomb haymond I. collectionsimadebyic---) ec ose)s sss = eae sia 14

Newslexico; collections from2> sac ci ccn.-= 2: -isie seieieeyeecie ee aceeeeceee ema: 4)
IE xXLOPatiOMS) IN seis Seo sepsis ajess coms aise mina pecan sical sis aera cetera eee 18

New York and Brazil Steamship Company, co-operation of...--.-.-.-.----.- 31,89
And Mexico Steamship Company, co-operation of --.........-.-..-------- 31, 89

MibladiowAle. Ps. assipned tO duty: «ance 2i cick foe's Noise Ie sacle eee ad Maer 42

Nicaragua jeXplOLralOns IN os. is2 c/s j1 cris Seis eee els Se sieciniearsceieicisee = eeiseie 20

Nichollssor: ecollectionsimaderbyeor a toe cocaine sense cate cis cise see eteaiels 19

Nichols wilennyeb scolechions DY cue) q-)osieeyeecisissiecies 52st Jab sec sates 15

Nicholson, W. L., in charge of hypsometrical map -..........----.----.---- 27

Nomenclator zoologicus, by Samuel H. Scudder...--.....--...---.--------- 26, 122

NOLES ea eOXplLOTAblONS ID Yyasere seceeinies Melac sae asejenceieieeiriocie eiteee eae 44

NorthyAmericas) seograph yi Ob -ciemossees eee ce seeale cee cicisecieeos cesei ss 302
Mnribes of synonymy Of thew seeder cons ees eoee Ue Rs peti eso Rene 47

North American ethnology, Congressional act respecting....-...---..------- 265, 266
@onGribUtiONs tO. osc /se 2 ek Ue i Ee te eau dio 46, 47
indians sin onimaryscustoms/ Other yesea ese een aesccceeeiseceieciesceiceoeieeer 46

Sign language among, by Garrick Mallery ...................-..---:--- 46
Skerehiofsshe my tholo nylotabhe nee eee eee reas oie eee teers 46

North German Loyd Steamship Company, co-operation of.........-. He ce ater 31,39

Northville, Mich., Fish Commission station .........-....---..------------- 54

Null, James M., aboriginal structures in Carroll County, Tennessee. .--.---- 763

Nusharak explorations ml .:22 8.0252 c0. on cece cin ecyes Geile sim cise  cterate tea a alee ea ae 16

Nini eee wexplorations Dy o.. feo. bdee aac wo ewas see dine) onlSerateiiisels aoe 20, 21

IPOUOGIP Iiys 8b oe Spb RUE SORT AM EERE EOS eae ae Siena cea 191
848 INDEX.

O. Page.
Ober, FA., collections'made by ssc sussenceas saeco eee eee ee tee eee 19
Obituary notices. (See Necrology. )
Observations on cup-shaped and other lapidarian sculpture in the Old World
and America, by Charles Rau ........-...--.- ote wide AINE cele eee oe eee 46
Oelrichs,&)Co-;,co-operation Of ssa eo aoe ee et aaa ae eee Rote eee 89
Officers andassistants.sosacrx. awise eons eros Ae ae eee ee eee xx, 167
Official publications sent to foreign Governments ..................---.---- 107-118
Ohio; Butler/County, signal mounds Ofs 322) ses.) ooas cose cece ae one eee 762
Mounds'in Henry (County.- 235..2ss05 scscccsccecstcitacteeise sot eos eeeioeee 682
River, Blennerhasset’s Island, remains on........ ..-- -3.+- sec ---o-- -e- 759
Oldmixony; Dr:, researchesiby -2s2.s5-ss 0c eee es sae ee caer iene see eee eee cere 15
Omahas, government of the, by J. Owen Dorsey -.... .... .-.. .--- -2-- «2 sce 47
Oregon; explorations ines 52 secs sees eines eae ieis ete see eee eee eee eee 17
Ores; collection of: [505 53S sew sc Noses ser cise! sal ste ees Se ace eee aene ere 8
Organic chemistry; notes on. 2.6/4 22-2 Sassen sisebe eco e ee ee eee eee 522
Omaments found ini Ploridal.ocee oslo cee eee eee era 791
Ornithological publications ws) oes) as aesec eee asks eects oe dee 135
et
Pacific Steam Navigation Company, co-operation of...-..-..-.-..-....----- 31, 89
Paleozoicsrocks; notice Of... ssccen wow slectmwecies cee oes ee eee ae eee ee eee 333
Of Coloradon2o. 2 sshice ele ce Sea baseete se nsise a eeae ce toes eee eee 337
Palmer, Edward,'explorations=:..(. cca. <cacccers secu ose ease ae ieee eee 44,45
Palmer, Joseph, chief modeler of the National Museum....-...-..-....--.-- 125
Palmer, William, assistant modeler, National Museum ....-.......-.....---.- 125
Panama Railroad Company,/co-operation of .-22-- s2c-s-e-emseeee ees eo eee 31, 89
Parker, Peter, assistant in department of fishes.....-......----..--.-..----- 137
Parker, Hon, Peter Regent sc 2 ce cscs eeteine aterm eee ae reas st ae x xi
Memberiofihxecutive Committees. s< coc. one cise cise mice el seis anie see alee eExO VAN Liao Te
Pavey, -Or- explorations Dyce isaac 22 selon eine nelesenieaeh a aeiaseae eee 13
Peale’s portrait.of Washington £22. 2.235202. 4052 see eee eee eee 43
Pennsylvania Railroad, co-operation‘of 222.2. .\../ 25 322. tiesto ole eee ee 31
Renobscotisalmon: propagabiomobe cas nerer oe aceon eee eee eee eee 53
Periodicity of temperature and)sun-spOusi =. oes)-sjo-)-+ ee seteeaeia sess eee 441
Beters\ OH. Ee acknowledoment) tome ecceecae coaster eee aereeter BY/
IBGE EERO Oa ce se nbopoocoH abrote ppOtCUCOgrad cuoKcda6 Sacad cond 61, 64, 66, 70, 75
JAMO Tas Os ON oo oono cen Gaur Nee BEOraoeoS HoGsoU CobEcd pCOnSé Onaede oboe 562
Phillips, Barnet paper! Dync<o- - ois ocinetisisie tie om nine tela at ete ee ene eee 192
Bhotorraphiclaboratorles sc. cacti cowie cians cee selects ee eto eee ete eee 7
WOE sagan dese ccms Seladisccescle tice tage cie cect sccie soca eneeteee oe seer u
Photovraphs for Museum buildings cae ces eccie sess oes ee eeeeee Baeceene 7
Physics, report on progress in; {by Gil. Barker ise sss. teas aces eee aoceee 28, 459
ACOUSTICS i2.n (5) 3. s is pein dala ae wale wie lnjete panisjtelnveterstererer sole miom ciel steree ae statere tere 470
HleCtricity ecco tid atten secees cee mem iseisecs selene see ee oe eset eee 489
Cab. coos en hinis tits lajg ais saaceinssla ci aje/nise lacidlinis ein eta ee alate Saka arse eee erases 473
LAG MG 2A Saisie colores tines cite Se ae eBlem cece Sea eter ee ene eee ee ate 480
Mechanics 552s ss ice ies seb eo eee eek. eae Set pet en ee creer eee 461
Physiology, experimental; depariment/ofssssesseeeenee eee e nea eeee eee 156
Wie meta DMS, ie aleve tie Bo A as Sik 2 eT ee ORG OE Ae 8g Me Ut 552
Pictographs, introduction to study of............ ese dina’s Cok eS hae eee 47
Picture writine..CentralyAmenitcantstudles nas esate eee eee eee 46
Pilling, James C., bibliography of American linguistics. -.-...-.. .- cidemnes 46
Linguistic manuscripts in the library of the Bureau of facloes: So aeeas 46

Research of

JNDEX. 849°

Page
Pim Horwood © 0 1Co-Operat lone Oleres see separa asinla reale ala etelaltelel=l=tnl=(<1-) = 89
Rirz Ae spapen by, THU UseuMl ky rOCCCCU MIS) re <n om mmm mie lalate laleferelel eles olaea = == 27
JP Venanls), CSCO WEIN] Ol Ga55 Seon Se Aodoce casaeses- coud Hoboro dacoee cose uenas 29
lames notes Ontee saste scan Woes eee Hae sas sacinc sl ae perase alorals ehetareteieet a= 28, 303
Plans for fire-proofing of Smithsonian building ...-....-.-...---...---.---- 4
Riavean ha viespaper by,ine MWoseum EnrOceegines) sso esa cece le -e)e ase eioents 27
OTILELS en OVESLOM tes se yee elsiceie ie ate inte aio aie rererore eee ela lets a nal Nee meter Sere Calelavele 573:
Poon Ts Ep aAper Dy, iMUMUseUINy PrOCCCMIN PS eris sacjin see sacle elsisee sane Xf
Ponto, Prasikemin Noms ING ECW iegid BAGako cone coos nBSepe ehoboo BAO giopoeoo dos: X, XUEX
LROM NA Oe VIS ONCE Gene Soke eo Soot eee a beads eed Bate se odo sede Sue 43;
OTOMACH RIVER ISH © OMMMUTSS1O Mw vOl Keliher satya) seer ia ls see renee eevee ere eee eet es 52
Lowell inemenant..exploratlOns Vie + )cjjttsin sop) alee aa relaronsie aia aa aria alate ld
Powell, J. W., Director of United States Geological Survey.......-..--.---- 9, 47
ES LOLALTON SMD Vis etc p eer a tere ciel a telaate Bec eels estate re el race it el Serra aye 18
imycharceot bureau Of thnologyeeee. sac so cee eee nee anys neiace essere 44
Introduction to the study of tribal government ..........-.....---.---.-- 47
Lectures of - sace ees Ae eaten ese Mises paisa ata e ee ease 10
On haeeinons to the use Ps some Conuimauciorieal date 2 Qe aa sateen Rese 46
Onisherevoluiioniotlanomaver--asene sac esos seine else oer Sates 3 46
Sketch of the mythology of the North American Indians ...-.....---.-... 46
iheyMniskokiwcoulederacy 2. cosgoe tos cesle see ose soe eine cic elars Soa cae eoseae 47
WAV 2D LOUIS OVERRINE MILs a setaeye torical ene saat eral = Seer listers imchyaesee ala etatasere rans 46
PreMiSuoclic LeMans iM POLI aie se sae ee oon sie ie etal cles cio yen seo eset aieao 771
Prehistoric trephining and cranial amulets, by Robert Fletcher, U.S. A...-- 46
Preservation of collections, acts of Congress respecting -..----..-----.------ 264, 267
Printing of Centennial Exhibit heport, Congressional act respecting ..-.-.-- 267
Printing of Smithsonian Report for 1882 ordered -.-.....-....-------.------ II
Proceedings of the National Museum.......--...-- ee aaoe eosin elses soseiees soe lok
ELOPLESS SCLEMbIC MECOLMy Ofte etree cna aiasels cis ieiacisle.» aie selnaciss eee aes 275.
Property and supplies of the National Museum.--..--:. -.<.-----2--2---<--- 123
EROCOCHOLGALES aD OLESIOM peer neia smeree sey sic eerie keene eae tee eeiasiee 605
IPLOLOZOANS WUOLES ON a seces ences se cision wees eee ea oad eee ates belo Ma eaoeee 570
Public documents, distribution of, Congressional act respecting-.-.-..------ 271
Publicationsiotthe;burean ofmsehnologyye sec sse se eee se eee el 46
Ruplicat onsortheryNationalMlOseum sn cee eee ce ee ea es yer eee 121, 122
Biuillle tama ne seyye arsine ei aerate tava aioe aa me latniate wate aes weer cre eialnyeta ay ecial Le et) SUE 122
BELGE Leer ete ee eyes Cie here ate pants sta er a LS Renda ade a SN ciel ial Baal te SU 122
PTOCCECIN GS set yiors ana ayel se naie aieia tia = wrocleie slew e otele serie JassessSisaee see Abts 121
Puplicationsofshe Instiputlommess sees sciences wcities resis eee yn ceelee eee 21
PANTVNN Teh AT GPO ONG ee ee Stal Se a aa esta cate ee eee etm eer eR aa ten eee adc cae ORE UU Dea 27
Contributionst to kiowled emesis see sealcieisjain cata = ata stoi ere ate aero ereee 21
Miscellaneous collection spas samscets ce ees erste scletleielc tonite elsie/selas Serre arate re 22
Puebloiof Zuni reliefimodel Ofc. sce eee ae es cee eeinals osiinclesiseeneee ea 47
unipeliy, bv analyses iby <5 esa oh Ake C eo a ecieaeas Pe ei ee Oat 9
Euinam Joseph Duncan seathiolseccccese seclcne cals tse male ateletins selninicel= 39
R.
HpattowMeccO-OPeratiOn lee spacs. ie cine cies clo ee seis sleisisefan ea cisieetaleloiaras ainiseies 89
AUTOR ExtENSION Of, 60) ANMOLY DUILGIN Ome sacs sae ci see re eeinielonie sie cieiaiaieie 6
] Pee Vireuie ML Tayay REIS) COS DUI ES ee PR aD ave ee ee ee 416
Rathbun, Richard, assistant curator, National Museum...............-.-..- SRoX
POULT OMe eat eo rare at ete eee ras diniat Wee el at on ae aera DIEU LE Phe eae ee 144
PApeIseo yee MNSeUIN, PTOGCEGINPS, 5.25.05. 02 oe hee ciclo si sci eele, see socieee 27,170
Rau Charless curator, National Museume--=-.2--scss J) ss oce mace csee 9.3.5 127i, 167, 195
Goscmanie on cup-shaped and other lapidarian sculptures ...-...----.-- 46

a MiSs 26222254
850 INDEX.

Rau, Charles, curator, Notional Museum—Continued. pate
On prehistoric fishing ....2. 220-2200 cose coos cone ccs cnencs vase cocccseses 123
Anthropological papers.......-.-....-------- Haddad Mano Sco Sse Shbde5 c5ad66 23
Papers by --.< <5 sce sen 5= con- hanna eee cee sv ne ence minnie moll mein (aml aia iminll rk ee

Ray, Lieutenant, explorations by....--.----- ---- ---- ------ ---02- ----- 0 anne 15

Recalculation of the atomic weights, by F. W. Clarke..............-.....- é 22

Receipts of exchange parcels. < 22 oe ee oe oo. om mncinieelneme| aeielaesieie=l= saan 31,32, 52

Receipts for the Smithsonian fund in 1882. ........---.-..---- 22 -- 20. -- anne XIV, XV;
fOT CATINOGY OUT A oy etete ae acts ee eae ate palette ala) lal alae a aet  oatel atet a SOV.

«<Wire-proot building, National Museum. <2. 66. cmcicc me eu eniciomieelaeeian XVI
COUPULMItUre And tix tUnes= pp eeemicemiosaessees sm cen cscricces cine as) actemeeae XVI
“<Mintermaolonal exchan ces. pose ses cams eelesee esi seeker eae erin xVII
GOOSEN! WANNA RS Season abe sad se secs Scour adbeast coud coud adeb mend do XVI
SCANOTE HAN eLICA NET ATO) Of yee ere eeeneteoiie aieiciayalataie elie ree eeeaetaiata erator ay
CP ROLATIBIREPOL ese scaease eel Be Biss a Wattles wa ialafecin stole seen clesieeete sel) | XViEK
COMP TESOEVAblOnIOL COMCChLONS = masse sacha eae aaiele clei miata eae ee laters XVI

Record ofsctentitic progress as mses eee ee eee tete eleetee ciel aerate tetat= aerate 27, 275
Anthropology, O. 9. Mason. oo noose cae eciloe Sane wine oneness nie 633
POURED TOL apy bse BUNGE RE Roe EO heed Seb Geo cobece spaces sdSaoseacesc 277
Botany, W. G., Barlow: 222 cases cosa cele semiricccees we nimierime aint Sacie sessile 551
@hemistry, “H.C: Bolton. 2-2 aeja< om = mele me) aia oiricielnin ie eae m\wieiene einai 509
Geography, He Ma Greene oe secre ee oe cie lo aeiate evi (ale mia oleae = alata al eteta eal allan 347
CeOliayy Ute Se THIN Second ceca soko sescec cbasonccoces sosseS basses secH6s 325
Wigan rave (Oy JAD Se 6c5 Gdanisccs cocand soadone Bas coeur nasoansscsossoac 365
Mineralogy, BS.) Dang Soccc. = oe)e cea aaa a aim alee lol lel ele i 533
Physics: G:F) Barker o--~ sccc nese sees car tee ae net eee eee eee 459
PANNE A Abe (Cpe Ren BeBe Soc cned codes cece dona sedadoeEs) ansesss Shae soscac 565

RedsStarweine..cO-Operaulon Olas sesame ae eae ieee lenleleeerraerr iesessteoste 31, 89

JEST ETO MNOS ON 644545 boo0 seoeot cqdeas6 on dS00 sSoaso asSsos ose ded cess opac 437

Regents of the Institution ......---. ---- ---. 222+ 22 eee ee 2-2 eee eee ee x
INTE GING UO eSas <qooee Ba0d GooO nese esd sod Besa soos cbuSéadbscco as ods 1
Journal of proceedings of...... SOE CE OURS ae caro baband Abus SpadueoG bale XI
TREE TOUS) NY ca Ss sceSodse cosesd cacdns HdonSg eos Sessosenhso eee Ses \ocesee x1,4

Reliefimodellof the pueblo of Zuni --- --ss- ces seme ones ae eel 47

Remains, aboriginal, near Naples, Ill --.--..-.-------.-----------+--+------ 626
OneBlennerhasser sisland) Ohio mivietenessriess sesceiecese soe seeie ae 759
Ibn Mei Gap See sueeee otsond sansao cobecuSasa6d6 ogaaccaash be sscodseoSes¢ 771
Gay \RAniEN Pa by eie ORNS 65 aR 8 cng Soba. cocslsacy ces cogs o550 dene song a5 oaadec 681
OAM Kee eh ere, OOGMEEY H Soe Rae Saas ooo boot odao !aoeasodsoD Soes00 728

Report of assistant director, United States National Mnseuin....-...-.--..- 119
Of explorations in Central America.......... ...------- ---------- -+------ 203
Ofthe Executive Gommittee=. 022s a2 ceca cee ee ae oe eee ae eae EXD VE
Of the Secretary of the Tnstitutiones.---- see cleene = se =e al eee Il
OnwNationale Muse wm assessor se eae eee ene ise neta arrears 44
Oni Smithsonian exchan egies - se eae ee eee alesse = eae ae ee ela 31, 77

Reptiles, department Of <-. 22... . 22.2 J2- 252 2 == =< oo 0 woes 25 reno en -- 126, 135, 204
NorntheAmenicancheck-listiotvsss eee eeee ean iseee see eee eee 122

Researches alas OX pPlOr ail WA ese sector ea aaa eater ete eta 11
INES) aeegds adda cence Ba5ene os sben cobSed coocas Gs00 spsau beens coaace secs 14
INR OLE Noob Gatoed bE SSS OS bb ne aBed Coda bec con Bogu es sosSetesss cacone code 14
USBUAO0E Y pop rise BOOSH OTOL GID DOOOIOS Se CGGO DA ae sooo nanos Goddésa ch eno tuecocce Pils}
Califormias sis occaes soe et eeeee cine nel os ecco ince e eeeniete sce aerncin: teceaa shy
WentralAtmenica jee asst cee ele ase ae eee ae aati 19
(ON Sc0 coSapancesod son dato mcdnS sesanuooubodocd sdocdosecdde cacsadsaos 21

Commander Islands2 cose ceca cose eles ceeinee dace lostesieieciei eee eee 16

INDEX. 851°

Page.
Researches and explorations—Continued.
Eastern portion of the United States.................. SESMIBNO Oban ee scée 19%
IRIDIUM esha scascdaese coda Sscu snes aphc ceo Daeaes Sediames Gone Gaueo sabes see 18
(Cmeenenntl coed ncescoccobes Gade Sond SSUS.GHdn Gace Hedeeudaadoeingobod soceddac 13
nieniomon the United sstatesic. 2.2 me camer ns Cache nea a ee ete oes 18
SURE Ue eesietalminlaelelale = lai ailo mm teal=iyalsicia lala cists sities sic nie 2 <iciais'e aclecicteseeleniine 21
HNO het naetereiatatetat seit = alstaatanie is saul tires se matante mee ate ara scl newe alyan eine ae See 16>
JU AIRES ite Cen cOoO kg Ce SGC SO CSag S40 Gace Onin REE SAC MEE Cen mene cor c 13-
TRG NVCHG UETOLERA meta a steiete re siete ah ceran (aie ale occas nis ee ce cers coe iaoe s wameteseoe - 18
NIGSEKO 3546s oogdeindos coop oo ee acon sS OHS sade oo BEC AG HOBoSO REC EnO ESC sen 19:
Ne wa Mex COman conten ceyeoercsee ce cee kiss cee iecine sive sna memo eee seers sosece 18
IIE ESS 55 6 Se geBe oat Oo Rec ESO COUCH DID Hore SUP EHEC BORO rESEEaccece cae 16
ORG. 555.6 spahgods woeb cosdeedo code aasacatd o9ecn6 $a5560 sacs bogosseas6¢ 17
Saas MCR eGR cs oc ieleeemieeioe ne ete ecialee a mien anes ele nic tik, Nec Ree eee 15
SOMUN AVG osaaigees so43 dood noch PObUAG He BSOSsH BO SOUC GHOceD Eee ebse Seed 21
Pees LOMMVeLrAbORY asserts 22 as la sic ais wee area arene settee as esate Sees 17
Wes tildes tare acie .ecsiere ceri semis peiciselses S.G600 S9SeSO cenbSa bose bRS6 oSoc¢ 19
Resolutions feboardlofMnerentshanencae as cece tec ere cee ee cece eee ae eee 2d OG; SU 0hy SUT
Accepting reportiot Executive Committee. -2.. 2. 0-22 cose cee enc cs Seek XT
Appropriating the income of the Institution ..---......--..-.......-.-..-- XI
Cranhingyallowancetor: Miss Mo (Commons. = ease. sass eae nee cele seers lean XI
Referring report of the Secretary to the Executive Onereel siairete cin cinets XII
Relative to a new National Museum building.......................----- XT SET
Relative to publication of the scientific writings of Joseph Henry........ XIL
Relatiwemostzvue Os Joseph wHenty ce ssseaee secre Sones sells oe eel eee oeenn XI
Ee SPECUIMe LG PTOONME cr seicemion Jama Ane sae cise Sore Sais ols Manlesenicee. aon aee 4
Resolution of Congress. (See Acts and Resolutions. )
Results of meteorological observations made at Providence, R.I........--.. 22
Rhees, William J., chief clerk Smithsonian Institution................2.-.- SOx
Catalogue of publications of the Institution, by.................22...2--. 23
Eidgeway, nobert, curator, National! Museum) ...- 2-2. 202502 -ss22. soon ee eee EXEXS
LESTIEIS Da SOS ee SEE EO CESS CRESS See eh he os aoe ply cena Goh aR PER IOP TL Te SLMS 27, 171-174
LEG TOR Gis Sac) sla ge sete obec > eel Ree ee inel a peta yeaa eee ening ra eSB yi 132
Riggs, S. K., method of recording Indian languages --........2....6.c0-es-- Ag
Grammar and dictionary of the Dakota language. ..............2..2.2-2-8 47
Riley, Charles V., honorary curator, National Museum ..._.-..............- SOX
JOASCURTIE) DAG GB GAS SOO EIS EICc Oe yea ey Ana pe eo hes ROE nla ee aA 10
LP TSENUy CLELISO 1a) o Cg 8 OR a TS eR ener Sha Ag Ee UN Re a A 126, 143
ee PeL Os DY yemmetiaa wete s asians oie Damas Sails ismies > ool ee epee eee 174-183
fiechie ye lol lottertrom.: 22+. 222). 3s kee ey to ee 0B, Oe
BOROrsOn wh plus sPapere Wyss. scent e eyes sabe aed eee sic ede ceweaes ees 192
houbine work of the Insp tution soso -secee-ce se oss2e hoc ulee seed eeae 11
Royce, C. C., cession of land by Indian tribes to the United States .......... 46
niles melaiivestOjeS CHARGES) soi tocn t stee oie eer b ae oe Se ene ds RIN ieee 81
Pan y shit wepllections frome sts Sod 452.205 side onic ee eae ae eG 18
Ryder, John AS embryologist of United States Fish Commission ............ 156
Experiments of SOD 2a ccCa SH eoud Os ENa ase0 Hanes esEasamc dea toan souSsoebse 157
CRD CUS ane fess eae cites es Sets (as Se eye ai eerie ae es hse ees 27, 192
s.
DaAeord VW .paeaSs] CNEMOLG Ub: yon eee chess ese sefec nan cl sete as ane tell ot . 43,144
Schuermann, C. W., property clerk of the National Museum ............-.-. 123
Schott, Charles A., arrangement of meteorological observations. ...... ...-.. 22
Schumacher & Co., co-operation of .-.......-.....20..- Ee Bem ec cee Be CaUe 89
SLISNbINC PLOLTess PECOLUOl soe veea ca doeme sce. wares steed ccs seen 27,275
.

852 INDEX.
Page.
Scientific writings of Joseph Henry, resolution of Board of Regents ....-.... XII
Scudder, Samuel H., catalogue of scientific serials of all countries...-....... 24
Nomenclator zoologicus ..--...-.--....--. ---- .-- AOC ESD masa Sees Cog o Sate 26, 122
Secretary, TOPOMb, Ob 22 — a6 5 cielo <a = ale lata allele wim emilee pellet oe ieee 1
Secretary's Teport, APPeNGl SLO 2 so.) 8 Vac teete aeie etwas ial aaa eer are ere 57
Shallenberger, Hon. W.S., presents bill in House of Representatives for new
building for United States Geological Survey -.....---.----.---..-------- XII
Shell-heaps of Charlotte. Harbor, Florida ...... 2.2.5. 2-222. 2 ces. -eaeesneee 794
INGHIE LO UNE TO iials IWS) Beek 5 bp so50 chdéo5e Hoodos osee ss HHO Hono cboSece 799
Shells, art.in, of the ancient’ Americams8:.-. 222. -; .22. 3-2. seeces co oe eenene 46
Sherman, General William Ty Resents2-c<.- sie 2 -nrle oo = eel ae eee 7K (Ki, abe
Memberiof Executive Committee 22.2 sccjacjoanamemies)em emcee ae ee XVIII, XIX
Wig HCN NPE ee oaace hooded cos ondene eedemon a es so oon EaScasedSrmonnisen os60ee XI
Shindler, A. Zeno, artist, National Museum...........--....--..-.¢--...-.- 25
INCCIOOR LUO = memes else ll Sbbas soso ohos oces5 95h coda sooo SSobeasosbssste 157
Shipping agents of exchanges .-..- GH OM OUOH EH doo Lb oniAn beso noo scoWgscodo.ocse 90, 106
Shatateldity Bus: Ween aC CLMerity GO! soe ihe re ere teiaieia cle es wala al ate oleate ete = ei 157
In charge of collection of bird-skeletons........------ 2-2 --2-2- -eeeee anes 135
Papers DY ...- 22-26 se ne en eee ea nae eee ee te noe ween e een cone enn nee 27, 183
Sign language among North American Indians, by Garrick Mallery......... 46, 47
Siena) mounds of Butler County, Ohio. oo or eee afer 702
Sienal Office, collections made’ by 2-.- 2222 ~<a s 206 eee deen alanees omen eee 12
Simons, M. H., shell-heaps of Charlotte Harbor, Florida............-.-.--.. 794
Silver, gold, and other ornaments found in Florida.......-. stint esos 791
Smiley, C. W., editor of Fish Commission Bulletins...................--..- 139
Smillie, T. W., photographic division of Museum..................---.-.--- 7
Smith, Mrs. Erminnie A... researches!0f/ eos). cose sea e-fe nee eee ee 45
WAV OEV Oe TNS JORNU PON oh osbec5os d5a5 Hoge Sobd souS ooS dass cose SoogsossouE 46
Vocabulary and grammar of several Iroquoian dialects .......-.----------- 47
Smith, John P., antiquities in Washington County, Maryland ............-. 796
Smith, Professor, Tesearches (Pyicnce =< sceee cles = (ait ce ee ieee eee eee 15
Smith Rosa, PAPer DY 2). 2)o-ci0 = Sasjceceleteeeta snes lenses o> am se eeelae a alents ae ame ns
Smith, Rosa, and Joseph’ Swain, paper by 2-2. 222 - << .c)- =e pean nisin eine 192
Smith, Sanderson, and Richard Rathbun, paper by......---....----.------- 192
Spimee dy Say Seu ok adel o ts epsu arly mo wove steu bake Geel Se ce eae Parl
Sra EMO ye PaO TRY oe ee ote elle fence totale al eof ate eg ate lm race ote 192
SOMO eNT INOW Cho osbe cscesy doses. se besessdodsos shso sesn g4usescdolngcede 649, 697
SHEN HEMMER MOM, TOMEI See AB ee A Saas soothe seb ooodscdoDcosouecdne 413
SouthvAmericantcecoomaphivecis oat sa eee a eae alae tea oles ete a ate 300
SouvhvAmertcaseE <plotahvOns lies oc inesloeetssersie claim aia oiate ete tele etate aeear ae 21
Southern Exposition at Louisville, Ky., Congressional act respecting ...--. -- 268
Specimens of natural history for distribution .........-...---...-----.----- “ 52
Cabinetiofpotiercd sto; Museum na. ose oes aceioeaa eee aeeree ee senses 8
Preparation Ol cme cee sees ase oan sstaelelaicee late ele ele aa a rete eetetaateleetta terete 125
SPIES, ELANGEIS, CO-OPCTAULON Ol jose ee ayes wieln ciate) = eimai = ete y= aint alee alee 89
Sumichrast./prancisco, deathyoivseasisicncere sn cciee vests ere ee celta aeetee eri eriaer 19, 40
Shobny SOS Gal 635856 soGeicd cosoo0 so66os cosa hooses cate doneco Erbe sosdss eosce 286
Sun-spots, notes on..... APTS tp PaaS ME Ty Bei Gs Ns UD ee 2 44L
Statue of Osep hi Henty rece cer. =o seinee sales ieee ss ate eee eters XI, XIU, 1, 267
Statisticsiof exchan pesyoss sees jae wee erase mee wins jareiis seme eiaelaie s eiate totale sate ae BP
Steamer SOM ishy sepa wae ie era a SO SS a ate NES SE 51, 52
Steamship lines for Brazil, Texas, Florida, and Nassau, N. P., co-operation of- ol
Stearns, BR. E. C., collectionsimade: by 22sec cele oe cic roe twee my alere rele mtn <)alat el 17

Services Of eles cwenaner Sy RNR ey PLT SH ule ae I tT aD lege Se ate a a ee 139

INDEX. 853

Page:
Stearns, Silas, collection made by... ..- 22. 2.2222 ec cce ccs ccc wes aces cece 19
Stearns, Winfred ’A., collections made by ...--..----.------ e200 --- 222 eee 14
Stejneger, Leonhard, expedition of...-.......----.------------ 22-222 -+--2e 16, 17
BaPeIs DY soe cis = <2 eee class =a nini=iniele) wlvin o 1 w/ele\o)n eima) a\njo'w'wiwinie\(~\<|>~) elminie\= eens’ iL
Stevensons ames explorations) Dyce else sie) ae mnie's fae) ele elie) ieee 18, 45
Catalogue of the collections of...-...--. Duele ahs lse raise csrerceieisls cat mene iar 46, 47
Storage and archives in National Museum...-....-....-..----------------+-+ 121
SHOWN, HAOWES OM AS Sc5 ee esqd daoogd DOCO COGS Be EOROSUGCU HoUciccTodo Os erco seoC 421
Story, W. W., Henry statue by ....-. --..-------- 22+ + +2 ene cee oe ween eee ee 1
Street, Thomas H., paper dys. <-i- 52 coos ccm oe wee winceienre sane eeeeisinne~ocee 193
Structures, aboriginal, in Carroll County, Tennessee.......-...---..-------- 768
Studies in Central American picture writing, by E. 8S. Holden .....-...-...-- 46
Stady of pictoeraphs, introduction t0°----. 2525.25.22 s. scee a= 7 --- +2 ee ee a
The manuscripts Droano, by Cyrus Dhomas:.2- <2 22-2 .-coc\scee -ceces cca 46
Swan,|James G., collections made Dy, -- 52 -- -- 222 2c oe seinen ere e secon osc 17
IPH \fade sao csao enue coan case nooosd dod esad couse auensd sonbignosussconas 193
Synonymy of the tribes of North America.................- iagads bedceoo nod - 47
Ts
“WECOTTG ROCKS, MOKEON) osHao5 KoopooKdodded GH6> 2d osdsen Coons ooab5n6 Soadooone 331
Akal Sev CORO POLablON Of ssc. /s sie See eis otiee cle. cisc So elcid esis siecelete sicena\ee lore 89
Tanner, Lieut. Z. L., commanding steamer Fish Hawk............---.----- : 51
IPaPOLDY-=s css << oe CN arate eta la pee mlarcielaesbetaities aS aoe ACN te acta eerercl cto raka eevane 193
Tarr, R.8., assistant in department of marine invertebrates -...-........---- 144
anton melonevine Di mive Cem bieeee eer ieee eynetieleisele eee lence se cee elem eis O20 DDK
Taylor, Frederick W, chemist, National Museum ....-....-....-.....-..-.. XX
IREDORG Ofeee iat cece cece acl ae lew Selemicare Siecle Smoller salumsinie ce seeinaiate 156
MellerpeonpHenny Mies m ember eniOjUClOR ena se eats cise amine eee X1x
Tennessee, aboriginal structures in Carroll County ..-.......-...-..----.--- 768
PPETRCSURIAl Ma PHOLISHT, NOUS OW oe ccc ee aaiaiels cna Sa eianmieles aia =! einln ela mine eine
MEMpPEratMles NOLES Oeste cers inisewelsaiaae clone lal aera cetecrs cleanin ia) eae ae lee ae ‘
Mhallophy tess MOLSON: - seen cos esse cies cme os = cto e wo seins wee aes) sem eeleme 557
Thomas, Cyrus, a study of the manuscript Troano...........--..----.------ 46
Examination of mounds.......-.....-.. sess Cay eteiei oe blames oie eencte ee, meus 45
Oniceriain= Maya and MexicantUMSS.io5 2 o.c fa. esa ases see cease ene sess 47
Thompson deposit, act authorizing withdrawal of ................-...--.--. 271
Odd wher iss Oca es OLS eee selene see recaps ae rice eset ataia) oe eee 15
Topographic work of the United States Geological Survey..-.....-.-.----.- 48, 49
Transfer of Centennial collection, Congressional act respecting. .....-.-.--.-- 266
MrANSMISsiON Of ex chanPed isace = caloci= 2 a\steeseicis Ss slo sins clsciene eeeimcceituss cise 32, 86
Transportation companies transmitting exchanges........--...--.----.----- 8a
Transportation of collection, appropriation for -...-...--..-...-..2---- ++... 8
Treasury Department, transfer vf Centennial collection, Congressional act re--
BPCCHUO ane oatae econ eel scene aE oa a oy Sk hy cen Tne ee 266
Trephining, prehistoric; and cranial amulets). 22... 522222225 2-2sse--0 = 568 46
Triangulations by the United States Geological Survey.-.........---. -.----- 48, 47
sEriasyo Mb astern NOrgnVAMeriCagys vec senescence ae wees alae Sine chat eretWarate 33
EMAL COV PEnMeNb (SUUCLy Of cic siecle nea oe <csle oa aia alco cl ainiota a Neyas eh eimai 49
Tribes of North America, synonymy of the ........ aps elee Lelatalaie siataie aeemtealay 47
Troano, manuscript, a study of ........... Bi eaphtaR OR Fear SAAS SPR Dut ed “NAG
FELOUL MPO Pars tONOlp cae e seca earns c/a ei sa teal lis DEA ala oto a aL 54
True, Frederick W., curator and librarian, National Museum .-.....XxX, 121, 167,224
JEW OEE LW) pene Sede EGC Ce DESEO ES ESE Seer eran Peres) pil Snieyes eQrey sles 27, 183

epor on tulhnary OF MUSEMOL o.2/5 snis\cuncelec -aieens canes ames Wawelscm else oats 34
854 . INDEX.

Page
Muckahoeior indian bread, byadskt. Gores -eesas sie ones ceeeioae SWoaamcveetis 23,28
Turnereucien M: collections made by--neeonetees eee se se eee eee eee eee 13,14
PADOTADYif Poesia wayne welelninln wie etc satel cla sl cles Crletslatetclore te sietattelals eh rele eee etre ee etere 193
IREPGEE OVA AS Ka tsctesjcicis ocietetcieiele sie'efatarste ete a ctealat teh ateta ey etoteta trate aie terete ener 14
Ws
Wniarte,daindeco-operationtolsscecsiceceasecee cn acecer eee seaeee eee one &9:
We
Van Allen, Georce C., moundsin Henry, County, (Ohio). -s.2--s2sese5 5522s 682
Veretablevanatomy, motes Onis 225 teams s ashen ce nee me cee see eee 551
Physiology, Notes ON sec0 cac.< oo eee oc ers cineca ee cesaatene Sonienein eer ereseeere 552
Woertebtates; NObCS! ON) c< cms ciseicaieacieieseaacelsneee ees et eh ae pe Ss 606-
Wernills AcE s, DAPELS DY ieee sctosiso tence “nectar Monee see eee ae eee Od
Vienna (Austria), Imperial Academy at, letters from ............-.-.....--- 58
Maro imi a DONGS ssi: <i5.- rele sel cele siecle bine eiors Rie ees aes e ae Notas ac epee eee ete XIV
Wasitors co National Museumccss cassie acs ose esse accor ee eons eeeiee eee 126
Wavaria. departmentroles ss accccctosatscsetenceeuiseetien cen teen eee oaeee aya
Vocabulary and grammar of several Iroquoian dialects .........-..-.-.---- 47
Vulcanolopy, Notes ONS ss cscs: ssn ace ae eens = seem ece eee nae a eaniee 456:
r)
We
Waite, Hon. Morrison R., member ex officio -....- So SaEanoeonec concaceduas oes SSuLENG
resident Board Of Regents. 2 asi \/s0 sateen aceon cele ase eee eee NOR
Notice of¢deathiof PresidentiGantieldeesasans sores: eae eae eee cee 2
Walcott, Charles D., honorary assistant curator, National Museum .-.....-. 2Ox
Walkers Son. .}Cx0p] Of aolOns Din soe cnte cvs crete rane oer ee ee eee 18
Walp collections tromim-=>..e— sass eee stb Sees So cee eee sees 47
War Department, international exchanges, act of Congress respecting ..---- 265, 266
Ward, Lester F., honorary curator, National Museum ............---...---- 22.6
Guide'to the flora of Washington and vicinity ...--....-........---.----- 122
I Upers) Dy, ne Museum abrOoceeqin gs) ecieesiameles = ees sical eras 27, 183, 184, 185, 186
RIG DONG OL oe cele ems sr ae Ser eae c heletainie efoeisle mare a atinin sais eee tee are 150
Washington City, Bishi Commission works ab) scj-ncinm cleeceieies slenne +e wines ee Oz
Wrashanocon. George, pontratioheco- 2 “6c cece wlcaciarcle an Mec cian sine erias aes 43.
Wiashine ion Mermitony,exploratiohsiNieee-se esse eee seme sauce aepetoc eae 17
Weaving, the art of, among the Navajoes, by Washington Matthews -.-..... 47
Weights and measures, standard set of, for Institution .........-.-..-.----- 43.
Weld, George F., assistant in department of marine invertebrates ....-.-.-- 144
Wells J. G:, collections;made by2-->=-1-- eieees = - cee eines) -eeecete eee ee iy.
Western Union Telegraph Company, co-operation of......--.-.-..---...--- 28
Wiest Indies; explorationsiin.\. 55. 222-2. eee ieee Seater eels ace ssciee tS
White, Charles A., chief of the Artesian Well Commission .......-..-.------- 149
Curator; “National Museum 225206722552) Sacicne saisecoose ei see cena isaiae XX
IRAPOTS DY isiasie aiere wpatoie's) sic oiciclas wwie'ereies nal, grejetoelamnenermincl ere steicleimoe a teceineteiacteictte 27, 186
Reportiof s2 3s. sock icdins cc Succ clsincteas ce ocesiaesesolen ee esee aaa oeeiee 149
White’Cross Line for Antwerp, co-operation of... ----.----.---<-< dese. oo 20 31,29
Wihttheld,: Mr. collections made by.ccs26 accom e eee cose om aeons cere 18
Whitefish, propagation of ...)s200 ss aeiel tine e neeie seine er ecle = ere egee ee reetoe 5
White kiver Canon vancientiremainsil osesce eee essa ces e eee eens 61
Wilkinson: Jie. assigned todubyje. 22s csesccmecces cacnee cote e eee mee 42,151
Williamson, James M., mounds in Carroll County, Illinois.........-........ 683
Winds: notes (m2 2 Fee sss < les Siacck eis ic See ee oe te eee er 413

Wood’s Holl; Mass:, station of the Fish Commission 222. --csse sae sees eeeees 5i, 54

INDEX. 855

Page.
Worms, notes on ........ fate reais lake usa ialaiele eis ein eretare ce imtete ae apna aiotehe cine afesieets 576
NWinie lu, veeterct SONS, CO-OPelAtiOl Of. |. 5. c2ssee)sa— semiee ee ecaeiiaenc=<= << 89
Wiyand otncovernment i Dyrdi Vie ONC lnm ctarsere sice sine sisal sateinialomialelelateieieieisioiaial= 46
X.
MAN CUS TOON WOXplOvAhOnS Dyes sceceissea = ese teseeie= sel seaatamere emer 18
YG
Yarrow, Henry C., honorary curator, National Museum...-...........-..-..- xx
Check-list of North American reptilraand batrachiassssoaceaeesies oeceieeee 5, ey
Further contribution to the study of mortuary customs of the North Ameri-
GCanbplincicns|: sesteectseete aie elaer sia eie sakeeraiee areiaie scicarsiiee sien sie cteretavers ‘patsloiais 46
OnionortwanysCUSLOMS mama eree smiaehem aeeloie \ tee nrc nate oletain aleclatseia tee cetera ner 47
Raperssbyalne Museum Proceewines eemerceatena seein naete ete aera ete ateleraete 186
Weates Williams: actin« curator, National Muscum--.-..--- 45+. ee-e secs xXx
Z.
Zeledons oso... collection: made DY. .c. «asc seea- assina clase ece a= cecelecbioee 20
Cloet DEM Ol Scans sscacd boabbo cocans Go0dso Sabadoshccde ceeche bdbegsuce 5 20
PATI COMEEELONS LOM ceisanvsmeie's ssa = lstee esi eee Baa Seve cia tysiocieiclse a eectne ames 47
Governmentwmof they eb. bln CUSMINO. yaa ce ee sacle siscre) sane iste cinee cence 47
Ruebloyoteretief model: Of= 2 fas. cc secises ce Sosints cece sae acu eles teatro 47, 125
ZOHosyprorress In) Dy elheodore) Gill ae aeaeeanisecia nasa aay aieie a acteee 28, 565
ANTE ROOD sso 5ho codanceas G00 CoO OSEnS 550 SS556en BaoSnoosceae CbaDo Ss aoSaen Ge 579
Wmlenteratests ses «sisi cloalclsieist as clae'= taicials srasne ls aysis Saisse, Stelsiaye casino ene cea 573
CHING MCE e ese ae eine vem Gis asians een ees e Sento aaa iene aeaale cen eeeee 575
MolIMSCOUAS Bears sate eo meceets aa cae cision yarns nals sists ators eines teceleianis selene 588
Mo Masks Becta ne ase tarcine wer ainine = cisiniow se elo ciersincinesicmi Nejere sic) enieleitnre Sew orercteerne 589
ROniterstcaesaysas > oe essa ej sewe sac bas cisseeieaes sued se esiecd cus wteee coakewe 7
PLO LOCHOLUALES Rac seus cite sie clase sicicicole sine arose a sme eal laicls eaters cejereeerare ee 605
Protozoans) --2. cscs Salo ol sania winis/aieisistey aia sieiete oinieieiinalate eis oicie otatcicrl over ere arate 570
hViettebrates!-- 52 cesecsccl- ccs no ane Seisiee sas eaaiae sae cae see celeaceee ene 606
VVEITIDS) p55 ceSao05 Son0609 BoDO ED Ee COOH OPES EeSOEAEROSEE ase eric sAanias 576

>)
La aoa
ay

'

PO the.)
at
Wis

ane
yl

i}

*
i
i

a ong A

met,

b

_——

Pree,

_—s

|
}

oe

ont

tee

woth

tee

wl

ant

et
_
sae
weet
aae$
ae
&

