We ae Mh erat
eh ath Aik NGS Gl

Si per
ir Me)
z 7

ANNUAL REPORT OF THE
BOARD OF REGENTS OF

THE SMITHSONIAN
INSTITUTION

SHOWING THE

OPERATIONS, EXPENDITURES, AND
CONDITION OF THE INSTITUTION
POR THE YEAR“ ENDED JUNE -30

1938

(Publication 3491)

UNITED STATES
GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE
WASHINGTON : 1939

ee ee Ah SL
For sale by the Superintendent of Documents, Washington, D.C. - - - - - - Price $1.50 (cloth cover)
LETTER OF TRANSMITTAL

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION,
Washington, December 9, 1988.
To the Congress of the United States:

In accordance with section 5593 of the Revised Statutes of the
United States, I have the honor, in behalf of the Board of Regents,
to submit to Congress the annual report of the operations, expendi-
tures, and condition of the Smithsonian Institution for the year
ended June 30, 1938. I have the honor to be,

Very respectfully, your obedient servant,
C. G. AszBort, Secretary.

III
TO Mae Ea

f 5 ‘¢f anf SRE R eye be tx

LS Vd SEE MN

Pare ee Ying

aw

*

CONTENTS

UN PC 2 a eee a ee ee ae
atscieim@ntie CVMLS <5) oe es ae i ok ee
Summary of the year’s activities of the branches of the Institution____-_--
Me establishment=5-—2 5) Sa Ser yee ae ek ee ee a
UT ELS Topsy we (Ma ige tc) 00) 0 ate a yo ae nn ee eee are
a OMC RENE tet 58 aoe as oh he a a ee ee a
Matiersromecnenalointercute. - ss ee a as a ay
Phe smitnsonian Gallery of Arto... tof 3 kc ee oe
Smipohsonian~radioO Program we ee See oe ee ee ee ee ee
Walter Rathbone Bacon Traveling Scholarship--..-----.----------
Smithsonian Institution exhibit at the Paris International Exposition,

Papleravions end. held works. 12 2.2.6 21 St we fe ee
Publications 2 is = ae e Oe ie ee ete ba ee

Appendix 1. Report on the United States National Museum_-_-----~-----
2. Report on the National Gallery of Art___._----------------

3. Report on the National Collection of Fine Arts__-.--------

4) Report. on. the-lreer Gallery of Art_........ ~~. 52.2625.

5. Report on the Bureau of American Ethnology-------------

6. Report on the International Exchange Service_------------

7. Report on the National Zoological Park.........---.------

8. Report on the Astrophysical Observatory __.-.------------

9. Report on the Division of Radiation and Organisms-__-------

UO Begone tie librnty so te eee ae ee ee

Hie RepoTe our mibniCehans 62 2 2328 le Le eee eee

Report of the executive committee of the Board of Regents__-----------

GENERAL APPENDIX

New conceptions of the universe and of matter, by Gabriel Louis-Jaray - -
he nature of the nebulac, by Edwin Hubble. 22.2. 2.2.2 -2222 2222-272
The sun and the atmosphere, by Harlan T. Stetson____----------------
Cosmic radiation, by P: M.S: Blackett_.0- 2.200... 2.2 222 Lt.
A world of change, by Edward R. Weidlein__-_._..___-._-------------
fransmutation of matter, by Lord Rutherford. /.--.......-..-.-.-=-
Science and the unobservable, by H. Dingle._..._....-._-_-------.-----
Some aspects of nuclear physics of possible interest in biological work, by

ints VN ae! Di Sige Fey Se See a Pe ee a le an nas ER Me Seg
Bicotcon aeons. by i, Gr. Kioeiier os 2.25 2c eee ek Seek cee
Geology in national and everyday life, by George R. Mansfield____------
ihedioor of the ocean, by P. G. H. Boswell... 2.2-.-2.2.-6.--22-
PeCRees DVS George pIMINSON =o Ac52 0250-2 sine occ eke eee cee on tes

Page.

— -
KH OHO MRANE WH

ee
TIA RN NE

29
VI CONTENTS

Soil erosion: The growth of the desert in Africa and elsewhere, by Sir

LDL vevic) gl ot: eon on meen ante Nai SP OMe niente Pro e i Bt ee ee
The future of paleontology, by Joseph A. Cushman________-____________
The meteorology of great floods in the eastern United States, by Charles F.

Brooks and Alfred, @hiessen fo ek ee ee Be en oe ee
Eyes that shine at night, by Ernest P. Walker___.-...._._____________-
‘the Chinese mitten crab) by A: /Pamuning= 2222 ee ee ee
The biology of light-production in arthropods, by N.S. Rustum Maluf_-_-_-
The black widow spider, by Fred E. D’Amour, Frances E. Becker, and

WiHltkerivan shiere i APs Sere Sor ee ia ohh ee ee eee ee
The language of ‘bees; by 1K von’ Frisehe| 2522252222222 25 2 2 ee
Porest: genetics, by ioya Austin = ee oe a en Se eee ee
The story of the maidenhair tree, by Sir Albert C. Seward_____________-
The water-culture method for growing plants without soil, by D. R. Hoag-

landrando lh wATnOn «22222352206 Se a es sen Seo eg ee

The reproduction of virus proteins, by W. M. Stanley___-.._.-_____-__-
Modern medicine—the crossroads of the social and the physical sciences, by

@harlesrAvistin (0am. = 2 54s cee: See eee Sareea eae Senne neem
History and stratigraphy in the Valley of Mexico, by George C. Vaillant__
The Folsom problem in American archeology, by Frank H. H. Roberts, Jr_-
The Roman Orient and the Far East, by C. G. Seligman______________-
An ancient Chinese capital: Earthworks at Old Ch‘ang-an, by Carl Whiting

The natural limits to human flight, by H. E. Wimperis_________________
The historic American merchant marine, by Frank A. Taylor__________-

Page

303
317

325
349
361
377

405
423
433
441

461

489
499
LIST OF PLATES

Secretary’s Report: Page

AES aes Ps cee ois oR en nk fe a a a RE et ee 44
Nebulae (Hubble):

de] ES 1 te Ra CIES RAS eae ye ne ea eer ey OEY ES CES 148
The sun and the atmosphere (Stetson):

PES ey Ree ae See ee eS oP nea le Me Oe 174
Nuclear physics (DuBridge):

Sea ee eS tear ea a ce Sa ty ey A Ne Re 240
Ice ages (Simpson):

SUSY eras mens See Rte i ft ends 8 ee ns SD atria yt Nat Pe A oe 298
Soil erosion (Hall):

1 EUOUGENS [opt ER ican SanSee ONS My ope baleen A ay ee eee ele ean OTS es 316
Eyes that shine at night (Walker):

LELEU ER INT (oT Te) | Se a ie ea an at ARs es Les ae NR Ino ET 354
Mitten crab (Panning):

UEDA a ho SC cao SO tO eg OMRON ee tte Rae Oc 376
Black widow spider (D’Amour et al.):

UDC leek tes ee ea re ie De AN af NE a a CMTE ee 422
Forest genetics (Austin):

1 FASS SEN See aie ae gee et ee as a NC Na eee TT 440
Growing plants without soil (Hoagland and Arnon):

1d oy ers Ey (ae a ps el on cog he eS Mie AON Tee I En ee Se 488
Root-pressure (White):

| ET ERT Ke Reg Re Sen aces eS A a eee Peano ea iene erie 1 ee 498
Valley of Mexico (Vaillant):

1 EAE eT best 5 ae ti lea ger eer ge eames Cats yD ONININ EE eae TaN nO rea OY 530
Folsom problem (Roberts):

Vel USE BA) GS Lf eh ae Peak ape We Se en te ae At 546
Roman Orient (Seligman):

PPD a i Mt ripe he aad Ca es Se a SO 568
Ancient Chinese capital (Bishop):

SERRA ee ta sh ra Dataset Ot Sykes UA Lye Oe Me RN 578
Limits to human flight (Wimperis):

Iai bette sth chars mens Se th at eae 5 Ee orl Sys aly ais dla 594
American Merchant Marine Survey (Taylor):

LEAPED ect i [a a ata vie ae AE Ae YR a le Pe ey PRR ser 600
THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION
June 30, 1938

Presiding officer ex officio— FRANKLIN D. Roosnvett, President of the United
States.
Chancellor.—CuarLEs Evans Huaues, Chief Justice of the United States.
Members of the Institution:
FRANKLIN D. RoosEvEtt, President of the United States.
Joun N. Garner, Vice President of the United States.
CHARLES Evans Hueues, Chief Justice of the United States.
CorpELu Hutt, Secretary of State.
Henry Morcentuat, Jr., Secretary of the Treasury.
Henry Hines Wooprina, Secretary of War.
Homer S. Cummines, Attorney General.
James A. Farry, Postmaster General.
CuiaupE A. Swanson, Secretary of the Navy.
Haro.p L. Ickes, Secretary of the Interior.
Henry A. WALLACE, Secretary of Agriculture.
Danie C. Roper, Secretary of Commerce.
FRaNcEs Perkins, Secretary of Labor.
Regents of the Institution:
Cuar.Les Evans Huaues, Chief Justice of the United States, Chancellor.
Joun N. Garner, Vice President of the United States.
M. M. Loaan, Member of the Senate.
Cuaries L. McNary, Member of the Senate.
ALBEN W. BarxkiEey, Member of the Senate.
T. ALan GoLpssporouGu, Member of the House of Representatives.
Cuar.es L. Girrorp, Member of the House of Representatives.
CLARENCE CANNON, Member of the House of Representatives.
Freperic A. DELANO, citizen of Washington, D. C.
Joun C. Merriam, citizen of Washington, D. C.
R. Watton Moors, citizen of Virginia.
Rouanp S. Morais, citizen of Pennsylvania.
Harvey N. Davis, citizen of New Jersey.
Artuour H. Compton, citizen of Illinois.
Executive committce—FREDERIc A. DreLano, Joun C. Merriam, R. WaLton
Moore.
Secretary. CHARLES G. ABBOT.
Assistant Secretary — ALEXANDER WETMORE.
Administrative assistant to the Secretary—Harry W. Dorsey.
Treasurer.—NicHoLas W. DorsEy.
Editor.—WEBsTER P. TRUE.
Librarian.—Wiiu1am L. Corsin.
Personnel officer.—H®ELEN A. OLMSTED.
Property clerk.—James H. Hu.

UNITED STATES NATIONAL MUSEUM

Keeper ex officto.—Cuarits G. ABBOT.
Assistant Secretary (in charge).—ALEXANDER WETMORE.
Associate director—JoHN E. Grar.
ix
x ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938

SCIENTIFIC STAFF

DEPARTMENT OF ANTHROPOLOGY:
Frank M. Setzler, head curator; W. H. Egberts, chief preparator.

Division of Ethnology: H. W. Krieger, curator; H. B. Collins, Jr., associate
curator; Arthur P. Rice, collaborator.

Section of Musical Instruments: Hugo Worch, custodian.
Section of Ceramics: Samuel W. Woodhouse, collaborator.

Division of Archeology: Neil M. Judd, curator; Waldo R. Wedel, assistant
curator; R. G. Paine, aid; J. Townsend Russell, honorary assistant cura-
tor of Old World archeology.

Division of Physical Anthropology: AleS Hrdlitka, curator; T. Dale
Stewart, assistant curator.

Collaborators in anthropology: George Grant MacCurdy; D. I. Bush-
nell, Jr.
Associate in historic archeology: Cyrus Adler.
DEPARTMENT OF BIOLOGY:
Leonhard Stejneger, head curator; W. L. Brown, chief taxidermist.

Division of Mammals: Gerrit S. Miller, Jr., curator; Remington Kellogg,
assistant curator; H. Harold Shamel, senior scientific aid; A. Brazier
Howell, collaborator.

Division of Birds: Herbert Friedmann, curator; J. H. Riley, associate cura-
tor; Alexander Wetmore, custodian of alcoholic and skeleton collections;
Casey A. Wood, collaborator; Arthur C. Bent, collaborator.

Division of Reptiles and Batrachians: Leonhard Stejneger, curator; Doris
M. Cochran, assistant curator.

Division of Fishes: Leonard P. Schultz, curator; E. D. Reid, aid.

Division of Insects: L. O. Howard, honorary curator; Edward A. Chapin,
curator; William Schaus, honorary assistant curator; B. Preston Clark,
collaborator.

Section of Hymenoptera: 8. A. Rohwer, custodian; W. M. Mann, assist-
ant custodian; Robert A. Cushman, assistant custodian.

Section of Myriapoda: O. F. Cook, custodian.

Section of Diptera: Charles T. Greene, assistant custodian.

Section of Coleoptera: L. L. Buchanan, specialist for Casey collection.

Section of Lepidoptera: J. T. Barnes, collaborator.

Section of Hemiptera: W. L. McAtee, acting custodian.

Section of Forest Tree Beetles: A. D. Hopkins, custodian.

Division of Marine Invertebrates: Waldo L. Schmitt, curator; C. R. Shoe-
maker, assistant curator; James O. Maloney, aid; Mrs. Harriet Rich-
ardson Searle, collaborator; Max M. Ellis, collaborator; Maynard M.
Metcalf, collaborator; J. Percy Moore, collaborator; Joseph A. Cushman,
collaborator in Foraminifera; Charles Branch Wilson, collaborator in
Copepoda.

Division of Mollusks: Paul Bartsch, curator; Harald A. Rehder, assistant
curator; Joseph P. E. Morrison, senior scientific aid; Mary Breen, col-
laborator.

Division of Echinoderms: Austin H. Clark, curator.

Division of Plants (National Herbarium): W. R. Maxon, curator; Ells-
worth P. Killip, associate curator; Emery C. Leonard, assistant curator;
Conrad V. Morton, aid; Egbert H. Walker, aid; John A. Stevenson,
custodian of C. G. Lloyd mycological collection.

Section of Grasses: Agnes Chase, custodian.
Section of Cryptogamic Collections: O. F. Cook, assistant curator.
ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938 XI

Section of Higher Algae: W. T. Swingle, custodian.
Section of Lower Fungi: D. G. Fairchild, custodian.
Section of Diatoms: Paul S. Conger, custodian.

Associates in Zoology: C. Hart Merriam, Mary J. Rathbun, C. W. Stiles,
Theodore S. Palmer, William B. Marshall.

Associate Curator in Zoology: Hugh M. Smith.

Associate in Marine Sediments: T. Wayland Vaughan.

Collaborator in Zoology: Robert Sterling Clark.

Collaborators in Biology: A. K. Fisher, David C. Graham.

DEPARTMENT OF GEOLOGY:
R. S. Bassler, head curator; Jessie G. Beach, aid.

Division of Physical and Chemical Geology (systematic and applied): W. F.
Foshag, curator; Edward P. Henderson, assistant curator; Bertel O.
Reberholt, senior scientific aid.

Division of Mineralogy and Petrology: W. F. Foshag, curator; Frank L.
Hess, custodian of rare metals and rare earths.

Division of Stratigraphic Paleontology: Charles E. Resser, curator; Gustav
A. Cooper, assistant curator; Margaret W. Moodey, aid for Springer
collection.

Section of Invertebrate Paleontology: T. W. Stanton, custodian of
Mesozoic collection; Paul Bartsch, curator of Cenozoic collection.

Division of Vertebrate Paleontology: Charles W. Gilmore, curator; C. Lewis
Gazin, assistant curator: Norman H. Boss, chief preparator.

Associate in Mineralogy: W. T. Schaller.

Associate in Paleontology: E. O. Ulrich.

Associate in Petrology: Whitman Cross.

DEPARTMENT OF ARTS AND INDUSTRIES:
Carl W. Mitman, head curator.

Division of Engineering: Frank A. Taylor, curator.

Section of Mechanical Technology: Frank A. Taylor, in charge; Fred
C. Reed, scientific aid.

Section of Aeronautics: Paul E. Garber, assistant curator.

Section of Mineral Technology: Carl W. Mitman, in charge.

Division of Textiles: Frederick L. Lewton, curator; Mrs. E. W. Rosson, aid.
Section of Wood Technology: William N. Watkins, assistant curator.
Section of Organic Chemistry:

Division of Medicine: Charles Whitebread, assistant curator.

Division of Graphic Arts: R. P. Tolman, curator.

Section of Photography: A. J. Olmsted, assistant curator.
Division or History: T. T. Belote, curator; Charles Carey, assistant curator;
Mrs. C. L. Manning, philatelist.

ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF

Chief of correspondence and documents.—H. 8S. Bryant.

Assistant chief of correspondence and documents.—L. E. CoMMERFORD.
Superintendent of buildings and labor.—R. H. TREMBLY.

Assistant superintendent of buildings and labor.—Cuanr.zs C. SIncLAIR.
Editor.—Pavt H. OnHsEr.

Engineer. —C. R. DENMARK.

Accountant and auditor.—N. W. Dorsty.

Photographer.—A. J. OLMSTED.

Property clerk.—LAWRENCE L. OLIVER.

Assistant librarian.—Leiua F. Cuarx.
XII ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938

NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART

Trustees:

The Curer Justice of the Unrrep Statss.

The SECRETARY OF STATE.

The Secretary of the TREASURY.

The Szucretary of the SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION.

Paut MELLON.

Davip K. E. Bruce.

DUNCAN PaILutres.

Donatp D. SHEPARD.

FERDINAND L. BExIn.
President.—PauL MELLON.
Vice president.—Davip K. E. Bruce.
Secretary and treasurer.—Donatp D. SHEPARD.
Director.—Davip E. FINuey.

NATIONAL COLLECTION OF FINE ARTS

Acting director—Rusrt P. Totman,

FREER GALLERY OF ART

Director.—JOHN ELLERTON LODGE.

Associate in archeology.—CarL WHITING BISHOP.
Assistant director.—GRacrk DuNHAM GUEST.
Associate in research ARCHIBALD G. WENLEY.
Superintendent.—JoHN Bunpy.

BUREAU OF AMERICAN ETHNOLOGY

Chief —Martruew W. Stiruine.

Senior ethnologists—JoHn P. Harrineton, Truman Micuenson, JoHn R.
SWANTON.

Senior archeologist—FRANK H. H. Roserts, Jr.

Senior anihropologist—Jut1an H. SteEwarp.

Editor. —StTaNLEY SEARLES.

Librarian.—Murtam B. Ketcuum.

Tilustrator.—Epwin G. Cassrepy.

INTERNATIONAL EXCHANGES

Secretary (in charge) —Cuartes G. Apnot.
Chief clerk.—Coatres W. SHOEMAKER.

NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL PARK

Director.—Witir1am M. Mann.
Assistant director.—ERNEST P. WALKER.

ASTROPHYSICAL OBSERVATORY

Director.—CuHARLES G. ABBOT.
Assistant director.—Loyau B. ALDRICH.
Senior astrophysicist —WILLIAM H. Hoover.
ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938 XTiI

DIVISION OF RADIATION AND ORGANISMS

Director.—CHarLES G. ABBOT.

Assistant director —Earu 8. JOHNSTON.

Senior physicist.—Epwarp D. McALIsTER.

Senior mechanical engineer—LELAND B. CuarK.
Associate plant physiologist.—FLORENCE E. Maier.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY OF THE
SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

C. G. ABBOT
FOR THE YEAR ENDED JUNE 380, 1988

i

To the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution.

GENTLEMEN : I have the honor to submit herewith my report showing
the activities and condition of the Smithsonian Institution and the
Government bureaus under its administrative charge during the fistal
year ended June 30, 1938. The first 15 pages contain a summary ac-
count of the affairs of the Institution, and appendixes 1 to 11 give
more detailed reports of the operations of the National Museum, the
National Gallery of Art, the National Collection of Fine Arts, the
Freer Gallery of Art, the Bureau of American Ethnology, the In-
ternational Exchanges, the National Zoological Park, the Astrophysi-
cal Observatory, the Division of Radiation and Organisms, the Smith-
sonian library, and of the publications issued under the direction of
the Institution. On page 121 is the financial report of the executive
committee of the Board of Regents.

OUTSTANDING EVENTS

The past year witnessed a further stimulus to the art feature of the
Smithsonian Institution in the passage by Congress of a resolution.
authorizing the President to designate a tract of land on the Mall for
a Smithsonian Gallery of Art and authorizing an appropriation of
$40,000 to obtain preliminary plans for such a building. It is the
expectation that the building itself will be financed by private funds.
The year also marked the completion of the foundations of the new
National Gallery of Art now under construction which is to house
the Andrew W. Mellon art collection given by Mr. Mellon to the
Nation through the Smithsonian Institution. The building is ex-
pected to be completed in 1940. The Smithsonian solar observing
station on Mount St. Katherine in Egypt was abandoned owing to the
excessive isolation of that station and other cogent reasons, and con-
struction of a new station on Burro Mountain near Tyrone in New
Mexico was begun. June 1938 marked the completion of 2 full years
of the Smithsonian radio program in cooperation with the United
States Office of Education. These educational broadcasts have con-

1
Z ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTIT UTION, 1938

tinued in favor with a very large listening audience as witnessed by
the nearly quarter of a million letters received as the result of the
program.

Among the large amount of material received by the National
Museum, an outstanding accession is a collection of mollusks obtained
through the Frances Lea Chamberlain fund which numbered well
over a million specimens. The Bureau of American Ethnology dis-
patched an expedition to South America to make extensive studies of
the Indian tribes of the western part of that continent. New ap-
paratus and new methods have been developed in the Division of
Radiation and Organisms, and investigations have yielded important
results particularly in the field of photosynthesis.

The Board of Regents lost three of its members by death, Senator
Joseph T. Robinson, Ambassador Robert W. Bingham, and Augustus
P. Loring. To fill the vacancies thus created, three new members were
appointed, namely, Senator Alben W. Barkley, of Kentucky; Dr.
Harvey N. Davis, of New Jersey; and Dr. Arthur H. Compton, of
Illinois.

SUMMARY OF THE YHAR’S ACTIVITIES OF THE BRANCHES OF THE
INSTITUTION

National Museum.—The total appropriation for the maintenance
of the Museum was $775,720, an actual increase of $11,750 over the
previous year. Specimens added to the collections, mainly as gifts
or through Smithsonian expeditions, numbered 312,729. In this
large amount of new material some of the more important accessions
were as follows: In anthropology, nearly a hundred vessels and frag-
ments from Honduras, obtained by the joint expedition with the
Peabody Museum of Harvard University, and other archeological
collections from Denmark, South Africa, and the Temple Mound in
Le Flore County, Okla.; in biology, large additions to the collec-
tions of mammals, birds, reptiles, fishes, marine invertebrates, and
insects, the latter including 54,000 insects transferred from the United
States Bureau of Entomology and Plant Quarantine; in geology,
specimens representing 62 distinct meteoric falls, largely purchased
by the Roebling Fund, 790 specimens pertaining to mineralogy and
petrology obtained through the Chamberlain Fund and the Canfield
Fund, and an unparalleled collection of Devonian invertebrates made
by Dr. G. Arthur Cooper and Preston Cloud in the Lower Peninsula
of Michigan; in arts ana industries, the first cable car to operate in
Seattle, Wash. (1889), presented by the city of Seattle, 1,500 speci-
mens pertaining to textiles, and a number of models of famous air-
planes added to the aeronautical collection; and in history, more
than 2,500 objects of historic and antiquarian value, including a num-
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 3

ber of objects relating to the scientific career of Dr. Charles D. Wal-
cott, fourth Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, the gift of
Mrs. Walcott. A number of expeditions went out during the year
in the interests of the Museum’s researches in anthropology, biology,
and geology. These were financed principally by Smithsonian pri-
vate funds or by the assistance of friends of the Museum. Seventeen
special exhibitions were held during the year under the auspices of
various educational, scientific, and governmental agencies. The
number of visitors to the several Museum buildings totaled 2,408,170,
an increase of 119,638 over the previous year. The Museum pub-
lished an annual report, 5 bulletins, and 19 Proceedings separates.

National Gallery of Art—The first annual report of the National
Gallery of Art reviews the establishment of the Gallery by joint reso-
lution of Congress following the munificent gift to the Nation by the
late Andrew W. Mellon of his great collection of art works, together
with funds for the erection of a gallery building and for an endow-
ment. The trustees announced the death of Andrew W. Mellon and
S. Parker Gilbert, leaving two vacancies on the board which were
filled by the election of Paul Mellon and Ferdinand Lammot Belin
as general trustees. An organization meeting of the trustees was
held on March 9, 1938, at which bylaws were adopted and executive
officers were elected as follows: Paul Mellon, president; David K. E.
Bruce, vice president; Donald D. Shepard, secretary and treasurer;
and David E. Finley, director. Executive, acquisitions, and finance
committees were named. At the close of the fiscal year the founda-
tions of the gallery were substantially completed, and it is expected
that the building will be completed by September 1940. A list of
the paintings in the Mellon collection, now in storage at the Corcoran
Gallery of Art, is presented in the report.

National Collection of Fine Arts—The National Collection of
Fine Arts is the name used to designate the art collections adminis-
tered by the Smithsonian Institution with the exception of those
that will be included in the National Gallery of Art, now under con-
struction. A bill authorizing the Institution to obtain plans for a
building to contain these collections and to be known as the “Smith-
sonian Gallery of Art” was passed at the last session of Congress.
The bill also authorized the President to select a site for the gallery
on the Mali between Fourth and Fourteenth Streets and authorized
the soliciting of funds for its construction and for an endowment
for the purchase of works of art. The seventeenth annual meeting
of the National Gallery of Art Commission was held on December 7,
1937. As the name “National Gallery of Art” has been assigned to
the gallery building now being erected to contain the Mellon art col-
lections, the name of the Commission was changed to “Smithsonian

114728—39

2
4 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION » 1938

Art Commission.” A wood gravure of “Rockwell Studio,” by Ma-
cowin Tuttle, was accepted by the Commission for the collection.
Five miniatures were acquired through the Catherine Walden Myer
fund. Six special exhibitions were held as follows: The art of the
Mexican school children, 262 items; joint exhibition of the Twenty
Women Painters and the Landscape Club, of Washington, D. C.; 74
water colors by William Spencer Bagdatopoulos; 85 paintings, 20
framed and 41 unframed water colors, 34 etchings, and 33 pieces of
sculpture from the National Collection of Fine Arts; 3 portraits by
Henrique Medina; and 260 naval historical prints from the Eber-
stadt Collection.

Freer Gallery of Art.—Additions to the collections included Chinese
bronze, gold, and jade objects; Arabic manuscripts; Chinese, Indian,
and Persian paintings; Chinese porcelain; Persian pottery; and
Egyptian stone sculpture. The year’s curatorial work has been de-
voted to the study of Chinese, J apanese, Arabic, Persian, Aramaic,
and Armenian art objects and of associated texts, inscriptions, or
seals. The results of these studies have been incorporated in the
Gallery records. Many similar objects have been brought or sent to
the Director by their owners for expert opinion on their identity,
age, etc. Changes in exhibition in the Gallery have involved a total
of 75 objects. The number of visitors for the year was 120,427. Two
lectures on Musulman painting were given by Eustache de Lorey, of
Paris; 9 groups were given instruction in the study rooms, and 10
groups were given docent service in the exhibition galleries.

Bureau of American Ethnology.—Mr. Stirling, chief, besides his
administrative duties, made a reconnaissance trip to Mexico, during
which he selected a site in the Canton of Tuxtlas south of Veracruz
for archeological excavation during the coming year. Dr. Swanton
devoted most of the year to field work and investigations relating to
his work as chairman of the United States De Soto Expedition Com-
mission. Dr. Michelson undertook field work among the Montag-
nais-Naskapi Indians of the northern shore of the St. Lawrence
River and vicinity. Dr. Harrington completed a comparative study
of the Tano-Kiowan family of languages. Dr. Roberts continued his
archeological work at the Lindenmeier site in northern Colorado,
where he unearthed a large collection of specimens relating to Folsom
man, so far as known the earliest of New World inhabitants. Dr.
Steward completed his final report on the tribes of the Great Plains-
Plateau area. In April 1938, he left for Ecuador to begin extensive
ethnological studies in the western part of South America. The
Bureau published an annual report and three bulletins.

International Exchanges—The International Exchange Service
under the Smithsonian Institution acts as the official agency of the
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 5

United States for the interchange with other countries of govern-
mental and scientific documents. During the year the service handled
719,121 packages of such matter, an increase of 61,775 over the
previous year. The weight of these packages was 656,119 pounds.
The Government franking privilege was extended to cover a number
of South and Central American countries, and packages for those
countries were therefore sent direct to their destinations by mail in-
stead of through the respective exchange bureaus. Shipments of
exchanges to Spain have been suspended since August 1936, and those
to China since August 1937. At the close of the year, however, a large
consignment was being prepared for shipment to the Chinese Bureau
of International Exchanges, which had moved its office from Nanking
to Chungking.

National Zoological Park.—The outstanding feature of the year
was the addition to the collection of the large number of animals,
birds, and reptiles brought back by the National Geographic
Society-Smithsonian Expedition to the East Indies. The actual num-
ber of specimens was 879, consisting of 121 mammals of 46 species,
649 birds of 93 species, and 109 reptiles of 30 species. The new large
mammal house described in last year’s report was stocked with ani-
mals during August and September 1937, the difficult task of trans-
ferring such large creatures as elephants, hippopotamuses, and
rhinoceroses being accomplished without mishap. Visitors for the
year again increased in number, the total reaching 3,127,650. This
included 1,874 organizations, mainly schools, with a total of 70,371
individuals. Among the additions to the animal collection may be
mentioned 34 mammals born and 30 birds hatched in the Park. The
total number of animals in the collection at the close of the year was
2,754, an increase of 412 over last year. The most urgent need of
the Park is a new building for the restaurant and concession stand.

Astrophysical Observatory.—The main business of the year was the
recomputation of all solar-constant values from 1923 to the present
time. This immense task was nearly completed at the close of the
year, and it is hoped that by January 1939 a homogeneous series of
daily values will be available. A highly sensitive instrument to
measure the distribution of energy in the spectra of some of the
brighter stars was constructed by Dr. Abbot and Mr. Hoover, and in
May 1938 Mr. Hoover took the apparatus to Mount Wilson, Calif.,
to make new measurements of the stellar spectrum energy and also
to make studies of the growth of plants in monochromatic rays. By
way of anticipating next year’s report, it may be said that gratifying
progress was made in both researches. At the request of the Weather
Bureau, construction was begun of a duplicate of the atmospheric
turbidity and moisture apparatus used by the Institution in testing
6 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938

the desirability of mountain sites for solar observatories. Dr. Abbot
made further progress in the development of devices for utilizing
solar radiation. The solar-radiation station on Mount St. Katherine
in Egypt was abandoned for several reasons in December 1937 , and a
new station was located on Burro Mountain near Tyrone, N. Mex. It
is hoped to begin observations there by November 1938. Dr. Brian
O’Brien, aided by Smithsonian grants, has made further progress in
the development of methods and apparatus for measuring solar varia-
tion in the ultraviolet from sounding balloons, and he hopes soon
to be able to compare this method with the results of the Smithsonian
solar-constant observations.

Division of Radiation and Organisms.—Many investigations relat-
ing to plant growth and radiation have been fruitfully pursued dur-
ing the year. An improved method has been developed for measur-
ing plant growth substances concerned in the bending of plants
toward the light. Several members of the staff have collaborated in
preparing a new automatic apparatus for measuring and recording
photosynthesis continuously, as well as an apparatus for the deter-
mination of chlorophyll. Preparations are under way for the investi-
gation of photosynthesis in algae. Studies were continued of mixtures
of artificial lights suitable to promote satisfactory plant growth under
laboratory conditions. Dependence of the induction periods in the
photosynthesis of wheat on the length of previous dark exposures was
further investigated, and in addition important results were obtained
on the chlorophyll—CO, ratio during photosynthesis. Members of the
staff published five papers on the results of these and other investiga-
tions during the year.

THE ESTABLISHMENT

The Smithsonian Institution was created by act of Congress in
1846, according to the terms of the will of James Smithson, of
England, who in 1826 bequeathed his property to the United States
of America “to found at Washington, under the name of the Smith.
sonian Institution, an establishment for the increase and diffusion of
cnowledge among men.” In receiving the property and accepting the
trust, Congress determined that the Federal Government was without
authority to administer the trust directly, and, therefore, constituted
an “establishment” whose statutory members are “the President, the
Vice President, the Chief Justice, and the heads of the executive
departments.”

THE BOARD OF REGENTS
During the year the Board of Regents lost three of its members

by death, namely, Senator J oseph T. Robinson, of Arkansas, on July
14,1937; Ambassador Robert W. Bingham, of Kentucky, on December
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 7

18, 1937; and Mr. Augustus P. Loring, of Massachusetts, on March
17, 1938. Senator Alben W. Barkley, of Kentucky, was appointed
by the President of the Senate on November 15, 1937, to succeed
Senator Robinson; by joint resolution of Congress approved June
15, 1988, Dr. Harvey N. Davis, of New Jersey, was appointed to suc-
ceed Ambassador Bingham; and by joint resolution approved June
90, 1988, Dr. Arthur H. Compton, of Illinois, was appointed to suc-
ceed Mr. Loring. Also by joint resolution approved June 20, 1938,
Hon. R. Walton Moore, of Virginia, was reappointed to succeed
himself.

The roll of Regents at the close of the year was as follows: Charles
Evans Hughes, Chief Justice of the United States, Chancellor; John
N. Garner, Vice President of the United States; members from the
Senate—M. M. Logan, Charles L. McNary, Alben W. Barkley; mem-
bers from the House of Representatives—T. Alan Goldsborough,
Charles L. Gifford, Clarence Cannon; citizen members—Frederic A.
Delano, Washington, D. C.; John C. Merriam, Washington, D. C.;
R. Walton Moore, Virginia; Roland 8. Morris, Pennsylvania; Harvey
N. Davis, New Jersey; Arthur H. Compton, Tllinois.

Proceedings—The annual meeting of the Board of Regents was
held on January 18, 1938. The Regents present were Chief Justice
Charles Evans Hughes, Chancellor; John N. Garner, Vice President
of the United States; Senators M. M. Logan and Alben W. Barkley;
Representatives T. Alan Goldsborough, Charles L. Gifford, and
Clarence Cannon; citizen Regents Frederic A. Delano and John C.
Merriam; and the Secretary, Dr. Charles G. Abbot.

The Secretary presented his annual report, detailing the activities
of the several Government branches and of the parent institution
during the year, and Mr. Delano presented the report of the execu-
tive committee, covering financial statistics of the Institution. The
Secretary also presented the annual report of the National Gallery
of Art Commission, the name of which was changed, by a resolution
adopted by the Regents at this meeting, to the Smithsonian Art
Commission.

In his usual special report the Secretary presented to the Regents
a brief review of important activities carried on by the Institution
and members of the staff during the year.

In addition to the annual meeting, there was a special meeting
of the Board of Regents on May 11, 1938, at which the following
Regents were present: Chief Justice Charles Evans Hughes, Chan-
cellor; Representatives T. Alan Goldsborough, Charles L. Gifford,
and Clarence Cannon; citizen Regents Frederic A. Delano, R. Walton
Moore, and Roland S. Morris; and the Secretary, Dr. Charles G.
Abbot. This meeting was called to consider several urgent matters
8 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN IN STITUTION, 1938

that had arisen, including a pending joint resolution of Congress
(which was afterward approved on May 17, 1938) setting apart public
ground for the Smithsonian Gallery of Art, and establishing the
Smithsonian Gallery of Art Commission, to make preliminary in-
vestigations and to secure appropriate designs, by competition or
otherwise, for a Smithsonian Gallery of Art. The joint resolution
also authorized an appropriation of $40,000 for expenses of the Com-
mission, which amount was included in the deficiency appropriation
bill approved June 25, 1938.

FINANCES

A statement will be found in the report of the executive committee,
page 121.
MATTERS OF GENERAL INTEREST

THE SMITHSONIAN GALLERY OF ART

In my last report I spoke of a resolution introduced at the first
session of the Seventy-fifth Congress to establish a Smithsonian Gal-
lery of Art to house the national art collections. The resolution did
not pass that session of Congress, but it was introduced again at the
third session, passed both houses of Congress, and was approved by
the President on May 17, 1938. The resolution authorized the Presi-
dent to set apart ground for such a gallery on the Mall between
Fourth and Fourteenth Streets and Constitution and Independence
Avenues. A commission was set up, to be called the Smithsonian
Gallery of Art Commission, who were authorized to secure appropri-
ate designs for a gallery building, and $40,000 was authorized to be
appropriated for this purpose. The Regents of the Institution were
authorized to solicit and receive subscriptions of funds for the con-
struction of a building. In addition to providing space for the
present National Collection of Fine Arts, administered by the Insti-
tution, and other art works belonging to the Government, the Smith-
sonian Gallery of Art is authorized by the resolution to hold public
exhibitions, to acquire and sell contemporary works of art, to employ
artists and other personnel, and to award scholarships.

The $40,000 authorized to be appropriated was actually provided
in the Second Deficiency Act approved June 25, 1938.

The Smithsonian Gallery of Art Commission as designated in the
resolution held its first meeting on May 25, 1938, at the Smithsonian
Institution. Five of the eight members constituting the Commis-
sion were present, namely, Edward Bruce, Frederic A. Delano, Hon.
Kent E. Keller, Charles L. Borie, Jr., and Dr. Charles G. Abbot.
Two of the remaining members, Senators Alben W. Barkley and
Gilmore D. Clarke, were unable to be present, and the eighth mem-
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 9

ber, a representative of the Board of Regents of the Institution, had
not yet been designated. Mr. Delano was elected chairman of the
Commission and Dr. Abbot secretary. A ways and means committee
was appointed to consider the matter of soliciting funds from pro-
spective donors for the construction of the gallery building, and an
outline of the characteristics of a desirable type of building was
presented by the chairman. The meeting adjourned subject to call
by the chairman.

The Smithsonian Institution is indeed gratified that at last there
is real promise of a suitable gallery building to house the valuable
art collections in its custody formerly known as the National Gallery
of Art and since 1937 as the National Collection of Fine Arts. Such
a gallery, together with the National Gallery of Art now under
construction and the Freer Gallery of Art, all associated with the
Smithsonian Institution, will undoubtedly go far toward placing
America among the forefront of nations in the field of art and will
eventually make of the Nation’s Capital an art center comparable
with those of the Old World.

SMITHSONIAN RADIO PROGRAM

In June 1938 was completed the second full year of “The World
is Yours,” the weekly radio program put on the air by cooperation
between the United States Office of Education, the National Broad-
casting Co., and the Smithsonian Institution, with the financial sup-
port of the Works Progress Administration. The series was begun
in June 1936 as an experiment in the field of educational radio. The
Smithsonian editorial office worked out a widely diversified but
carefully balanced series of subjects in the various fields of the
Institution’s activities—science, invention, history, and art—and these
subjects were presented to listeners as half-hour dramatizations every
Sunday over an NBC network. The number of stations carrying the
programs was small at first, but increased gradually until in June
1938 “The World is Yours” went on the air over 57 stations and 2
short-wave stations.

In my last report were listed the subjects covered in the first year’s
programs. From July 1, 1937, to June 30, 1938, the following
subjects were presented :
10 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938

1937
Mevolutionary ;RelicSiu- a. 3) oor, wel ENE ee ke Le July 4
AAR, DING 8 a 3 ne a EE July 11
Pharmacenical Progucie< +. eu eee ee ee ee ee July 25
eM dviss0) 01:7: el elt tee Sa A ok ae Nee ORR aed Ela) Oc didanat pete ee Sie Aug. 1
Men of Silence ss Sooo he Oe ee ae nee Aug. 8
Medals at it i sibs oe a ee i 8 Ss ee ei dickies Aug. 15
GlsSeas 265 ote face tk eg Ae pe i iets ah hk Aug. 22
Blew tian, Antiquities =o. Fook Yr See ee eae ioe 2 a ee Aug. 29
PRED BOT 6 8 cot ee eee a ee ee en ee Sept. 5
PEEERES CPA COR hk an Mea nae ee ae ee ee eee eee eee Sept. 12
O02) Aa dt daa Ot bed RbneeE taeen GAN ML shed MAL Sy Te Sept. 19
purer ye vated Pits Le) ok LO EA EE Westen ae ee eee Sept. 26
Abia oe 5 BAS har bh Voy de: peel fey Yt eee eel ae VE eee Sul Ociaas
bynes Che hOCER IS Santali 4 Nt oe Sees ee ee eee ee a Oct. 10
LDS eR) Se a ee NEN, ES OV 6 UH ee, alt) Och. 7
PERC LON Se tae Se SE ra dd See eee nt ee Oct +
EPAINOUR IS WOLUR re as aie MN aE) Sn eek OUD APN Pe a | EA Oct a"
Seisnee' Advanceor’ the Wears Uy Te ws Pay alferitik Nov. 7
John Smith and the Virginia Indians:_> 2 cio a Nov. 14
Bomance Gf (Surveying <2 oe 2 eee ee ee, Nov. 21
Capturing’ Live Animuls in Sumatra.-22- Ue Noy. 28
SD JTLT | ne iaanees es eS SOW oe ECU i eee na uM erates SNRs era oer tO, Dee. 5
PARC OMY Uma iN eet oe iy A Dee ae
Drnes cn Medicines rs. be ire inva sue Tel vente! are UTNE Dec. 19
Chnintinnsiny the Colowies.-9 ese ok wee ee Ne a Dec. 26
1938
Cee Wig (RB oh 2 Se RY eed PR io es ee es OR BUN Jan 2
Masters Behind the Mellon RESSLCL PlCuEN sate te ie Jan. 9
Head vetsus (Weather®.4:_..COU OMEN ds. Serraee | Gao vie Jan. 16
he: Saga: of the: Sewitg) Machine. 2) Add oo tice ewer oe a Jan. *. 28
Wiheles)Lorcests,ory Mammalg. goa) bo te a Valle oe Jan. 80
mont se cine les @f MechaniGe.2: tv. oe Lg eas ee inci y Feb. 6
punked, Bigvand Mattie: i. Ben Been eit  n eeey Feb. 13
2a NDR OTL Bist Maan ta ieee case aa SP ie raed Pees NO PME eli RL Feb. 20
He SLORY “Or Hileckricity. vee vO L Ee WO oreit Oh LAT Es Feb. 27
Rina VAeeist Lnseetne ty bi sow!) mei re sel 0 ilo tase PORE WS Gd a wale, Mar. 6
Conquest: Undexpro tind tap 8 ooo th a Be ee Mar. 13
CGR Lo ana se Nepean 2 ees Oe un awe Oe ge eae eg Mar. 20
MANENE: be MORES Stamos Ve BL eas SOL. = 5 eee Rel BIRO) Mar. 27
Eerasi\Or sereyec esi ee see eel betel ir dy AE, Apr. 23
Introdueme; the! Dniverse G8 C108 wie aes ities) ated eyo Teall Apr. 10
The: Ines) Pimpize of the Snowe tool TOP Pell ae he Apr uly
Silver. @btough: phe, Centuries 68 2.0 ce Ee ees cae Apr. 24
Becploratio for aclence se 8 eae te eee May 1
Prmiiaye oNPanie ss elt Pe OeE Se ee a May 8
BA A tas Ed ESS eS As es ON ie Geet ae alle Soll May 15
UneEI CAH eR o0d Melemty et 22h st tee oe ee a ee le May 22
TLIC U nL > 2: meen eetaen el ew sen ae, Sem een RAPP VMN Une May 29
elmentieth (Cemairy. Iatysica so 205 ln es a ee June 5
Jacques Marquette on the NEISSISSEOD | 8-7 A ee eure June 12
Satlisttial “Chemintiyets tat Senate Se ee eS IV oe June 19
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 11

According to the large amount of mail received at the Office of
Education after each week’s program goes on the air, the series has
maintained a widespread popularity among listeners of all ages and
occupations in the United States, Canada, and some foreign coun-
tries. During the two years “The World is Yours” has been on the
air, close to a quarter of a million letters have been received, only
a very small fraction of 1 percent of which have contained adverse
criticism. Many, on the other hand, have been enthusiastic in their
praise of the efforts of the Smithsonian and the Office of Education
to make available via radio the wealth of information in science,
history, and art contained in the exhibits and laboratories of the
Smithsonian Institution.

Again I wish to express the Institution’s gratitude to the Office
of Education, the National Broadcasting Company, and the W. P. A.
for making this educational radio program possible. It supple-
ments admirably the Institution’s previous methods of accomplishing
one of its primary functions, the diffusion of knowledge. The finan-
cial support of the W. P. A. now seems assured for the continuation
of the program during the coming fiscal year.

WALTER RATHBONE BACON TRAVELING SCHOLARSHIP

The Walter Rathbone Bacon Traveling Scholarship of the Smith-
sonian Institution was awarded for a third consecutive year com-
mencing June 15, 1937, to Dr. Richard E. Blackwelder.

At the beginning of the period Dr. Blackwelder spent about 6
weeks in England where he studied the West Indian collections of
Staphylinidae belonging to the British Museum and to Dr. Malcolm
Cameron. Upon his return to this country he prepared his final
report which takes the form of a revision of the West Indian com-
ponents of the beetle family Staphylinidae.

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION EXHIBIT AT THE PARIS INTERNATIONAL
EXPOSITION, 1937

In order to conform to the general theme of the Paris International
Exposition, that is, “Arts and Technique of Modern Life,” the Smith-
sonian Institution selected as its contribution a small exhibit which
aimed to show the technique and variety of media originally used by
the North American Indian for his artistic expressions. it was entitled
“Arts and Crafts of the North American Indian.” The exhibit
formed one of a series of Federal exhibits occupying a portion of the
United States Building in the Exposition grounds.

The exhibit consisted of 41 carefully selected specimens from the
vast ethnological collections of the United States National Museum.
They included examples indicative of the Indians’ skill in wood and
12 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938

stone carving; skin dressing; appiication of vegetable dyes; basket
weaving; embroidery work with split and died porcupine quills and
with glass beads; sewed feather designs; and free-hand painting of
decorative and symbolic designs. The craftsmanship of some 15
American Indian tribes was represented in the exhibit including the
Comanche, Sioux, Cheyenne, Shoshone, Poma, Apache, Chippewa,
and Kiowa.

The exhibit was arranged in two exhibition cases especially designed
for the purpose, and with each object there were placed brief descrip-
tive labels in both English and French.

SEVENTH ARTHUR LECTURE

The seventh Arthur lecture, The Sun and the Atmosphere, was
given by Dr. Harlan True Stetson, of the Massachusetts Institute of
Technology, in the auditorium of the National Museum on the evening
of February 24, 1938. Dr. Stetson, one of the world’s leading authori-
ties on the solar-terrestrial relationship, discussed particularly the sun-
spots and their effect upon various terrestrial matters. The lecture
is published in the General Appendix to the present report (p. 149).

The Arthur lecture was provided for in the will of the late James
Arthur, of New York City, who left to the Institution in 1931 a sum
of money, part of the income from which should be used for an
annual lecture on some aspect of the study of the sun.

EXPLORATIONS AND FIELD WORK

Twenty-four expeditions during the last calendar year took Smith-
sonian representatives to 13 States in the United States and many
foreign countries to collect specimens and data needed in the scientific
researches of the Institution.

Dr. Charles W. Gilmore directed exploration for dinosaur and nam.
malian fossils in Utah and Arizona. Dr. Charles E. Resser studied
the Cambrian rocks of New York, Vermont, and Quebec. Dr. G.
Arthur Cooper collected fossils needed in current investigations in
Michigan, Pennsylvania, New York, and Canada. E. P. Henderson,
representing the Smithsonian at the International Geological Con-
gress in Moscow, had an opportunity to study the minerals of Russia.

Dr. Alexander Wetmore visited Venezuela to observe the bird life
of that part of South America. A collection of birds, including the
very rare Asiatic fin foot and the Malayan ring plover, was made by
H. G. Deignan in Siam. Gerrit S. Miller, Jr., spent 3 months in
Panama collecting animals and plants. Watson M. Perrygo, con-
tinuing the work begun last year, went to Tennessee to obtain bird
and mammal specimens needed for the Museum collections. Dr.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 13

William M. Mann directed the National Geographic Society-Smith-
sonian Expedition to the East Indies to collect living animals, birds,
and reptiles for the National Zoological Park. William N. Beach
obtained in Alaska some fine specimens of moose and caribou for
the National Museum’s exhibition series. Capt. Robert A. Bartlett,
who for several years has been carrying on investigations in the
Arctic region, visited the west coast of Greenland, sending back to
the Smithsonian many specimens of marine life as well as speci-
mens of birds and plants. Dr. Waldo L. Schmitt participated
in an expedition to the West Indies and obtained, in addition to many
new marine forms, two porpoises, which are among the rarest things
in museums. Dr. Paul Bartsch took part in an expedition for the
collection of marine organisms in West Indian waters. Dr. Bartsch
also continued his heredity experiments, begun in 1912, using young
specimens of a species of fresh-water mollusk as his subjects and
various rivers and creeks in Virginia and West Virginia as breeding
grounds. Dr. Edward A. Chapin collected some 50,000 specimens of
insects on the Island of Jamaica, among them three species of scarabs
new to science. Austin H. Clark hunted the “invisible butterfly,” the
Brazilian skipper, in Virginia, and although he was unable to find
one of these butterflies, he obtained specimens of other rare species.
Paul S. Conger explored the lakes of northern Wisconsin for diatoms.

Dr. Ale’ Hrdlitka went again to Alaska to further his study of the
earliest occupation of that region, and spent 3 months on a series of
the Aleutian Islands and on the Commander Islands, collecting 51
boxes and barrels of important anthropological material. Dr. Her-
bert W. Krieger conducted an archeological expedition to explore a
large shell mound on the Island of Anegada, the most northerly of the
British Virgin Islands, the objective being a comparison of the Indian
relics recovered there with the large collection obtained by previous
Smithsonian expeditions to the West Indies. Waldo R. Wedel in-
augurated an archeological survey of Kansas, spending 314 months
in reconnaissance excavations in the northeastern part of the State
and unearthing a wealth of important and varied archeological
remains. David I. Bushnell, Jr., visited ancient Indian sites on the
banks of the Rappahannock in Virginia and recovered many cul-
tural objects shedding light on the manners and ways of life of the
early inhabitants of the valley. Dr. John R. Swanton engaged in two
field trips for the purpose of tracing De Soto’s trail across America
to the Mississippi. Dr. Frank H. H. Roberts, Jr., obtained addi-
tional evidence at the Lindenmeier site in Colorado of the existence
of Folsom man, one of the earliest known inhabitants of the New
World. Dr. Truman Michelson spent the summer of 1937 among the
Montagnais-Naskapi Indians in Canada for the purpose of complet-
14. ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938

ing a linguistic map showing the distribution and interrelations of
the Cree and the Montagnais-Naskapi dialects.

PUBLICATIONS

The Institution and its branches issued during the year a total of
68 publications. Of this number, 38 were issued by the Smithsonian
proper, 26 by the National Museum, and 4 by the Bureau of American
Ethnology. The titles, authors, and other information regarding all
these publications will be found in the report of the editor, appendix
11. The total number of copies of publications distributed was 129,478.

The Institution depends in large part upon its series of publications
to carry out one of its primary functions—the diffusion of knowl-
edge. Its other means—its museum and art gallery exhibits, its ex-
tensive correspondence, its science news releases, and educational radio
programs—are also important, but in its publications are presented in
permanent form the results of researches by the scientific staffs of the
Institution, the National Museum, the Bureau of American Ethnology,
and other branches. These publications are regularly distributed free
to a large list of libraries and educational institutions, where they are
readily available to students and to other scientific workers.

Among the larger publications of the year there may be mentioned
as particularly outstanding a work by Henry B. Collins, Jr., entitled
“Archeology of St. Lawrence Island, Alaska,” in which he summarizes
the results of several years’ work in the far north on the prehistory
of the Eskimo; “Preliminary Report on the Smithsonian Tnstitution-
Harvard University Archeological Expedition to Northwestern Hon-
duras, 1936,” by William Duncan Strong, Alfred Kidder IJ, and A. J.
Drexel! Paul, Jr.; “The Oxystomatous and Allied Crabs of America,”
by Mary J. Rathbun, another in her series of monographs on Ameri-
can crabs; and “Historical and Ethnographical Material on the Jivaro
Indians,” by M. W. Stirling, an account of the Jivaro head-hunters of
Ecuador based on first-hand information obtained by Mr. Stirling on
a recent expedition to the region occupied by these Indians.

LIBRARY

Accessions to the Smithsonian library for the year numbered 10,892
items, received mostly through exchange and gift. These bring the
total number of items in the library to 887 414, exclusive of thousands
of volumes incomplete or unbound. The outstanding gift of the year
was a collection of 1,186 volumes and pamphlets on the history and
culture of China, presented by Mrs. William Woodville Rockhill. The
Geophysical Laboratory presented 3,312 miscellaneous publications,
the American Association for the Advancement of Science, 653; and
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 15

the American Association of Museums, 209. Besides the extensive
exchange work, which involved 25,264 packages of publications, the
staff of the library recorded 23,992 periodicals, cataloged 6,449 publi-
cations, prepared and filed 42,568 catalog and shelf list cards, made
11,880 loans, and did a considerable amount of work on the union
catalog. The chief need of the library is more funds for binding.
Respectfully submitted.
C. G. Aszor, Secretary.
APPENDIX 1
REPORT ON THE UNITED STATES NATIONAL MUSEUM

Sir: I have the honor to submit the following report on the condi-
tion and operation of the United States National Museum for the
fiscal year ended June 30, 1938:

Funds provided for the maintenance of the National Museum for
the year totaled $775,720, representing an increase of $20,250 over
the previous year. Owing to a compulsory administrative deduc-
tion of $8,500, however, this increase actually amounted only to
$11,750.

COLLECTIONS

Material added to the Museum collections during the year came
in 1,713 separate accessions totaling 312,729 specimens. These addi-
tions were mostly gifts from individuals or represented expeditions
sponsored by the Smithsonian Institution. The specimens were dis-
tributed among the five departments as follows: Anthropology, 2,162;
biology, 244,761; geology, 60,927; arts and industries, 2,297; and his-
tory, 2,582. All the accessions are listed in detail in the full report
on the Museum, printed as a separate document, but the more
important are summarized as follows:

Anthropology.—Archeological accessions of importance included
nearly one hundred vessels and fragments from Honduras, obtained
by the 1936 joint expedition with the Peabody Museum of Harvard
University; a lot of Stone Age, Bronze Age, and Iron Age objects
from Denmark; Neolithic stone implements from South Africa; and
a collection of artifacts from the Temple Mound in Le Flore County,
Okla.

As in previous years, C. C. Roberts donated many articles of eth-
nological interest from West Africa. Various objects came from the
Eskimo in Alaska and the Hudson Bay region. Navaho, Pueblo,
and Ojibwa blankets, beadwork, pottery, and baskets came from sev-
eral donors. Seventy-eight ceramic specimens were received, 10 musi-
cal instruments, and 57 objects representing period art and textiles.

In the division of physical anthropology 555 specimens, including
much skeletal material, were received. Of these, 291 were obtained
by Dr. AleS Hrdlicka in Alaska during his field explorations; 144
from an Indian site in Stafford County, Va., were donated by the

17
18 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938

late Judge W. J. Graham; and 67 from another important Indian
site at Accokeek, Md., were presented by Mrs. A. L. L. Ferguson.
Biology.—Biological specimens added during the year numbered
over 240,000, and the total in this department now exceeds 12,500,000.
Of the mammals received, more than 1,200 were transferred from the
United States Biological Survey. A particularly welcome gift was
that of a mounted specimen of a Montana grizzly bear of a form now
extinct (true Ursus horribilis) from Dr. C. Hart Merriam. A fine lot
of cetacean material also was received. Important avian accessions
included birds collected in Venezuela by Dr. Alexander Wetmore,
in Siam by H. G. Deignan, in Tennessee by W. M. Perrygo, and in
China by Dr. D. C. Graham. New reptile and amphibian material
came from many places, notably reptiles from the Lesser Antilles,
Siam, Ceram, and Sumatra, Tennessee, Florida, Texas, Maine, and
Vermont; frogs and toads from Brazil; and salamanders from Central
America. About 5,100 fishes were transferred to the Museum collec-
tion from the United States Bureau of Fisheries; 12,780 specimens
from the middle Atlantic coast were presented by the Bingham
Oceanographic Foundation of Yale University and the United
States Bureau of Fisheries; the Carnegie Institution of Washington
gave 6,200 fishes collected by the late Dr. W. H. Longley from the
Tortugas and the Dutch West Indies; and many hundreds of others
came from the National Geographic-Smithsonian Expedition in
Sumatra, the Smithsonian-Hartford Expedition of 1937, the Tennes-
see Valley Authority, the United States Biological Survey, the Bass
Biological Laboratory, and H. G. Deignan, to name but a few of the
many donors. The more important accessions of insects include the
following: The Blackmore collection of Lepidoptera (2,111 speci-
mens), the Quirsfeld collection of weevils (1,157 specimens), 15,000
ants donated by Dr. M. R. Smith, 10,000 Chinese insects collected by
Dr. D. C. Graham, and 54,000 insects transferred from the United
States Bureau of Entomology and Plant Quarantine. The 15,300
marine invertebrates added consisted mostly of specimens new to the
collections or type material. Over 1,000 specimens of marine in-
vertebrates were added through the explorations of Capt. Robert A.
Bartlett, in West Greenland in 1937, and another large group from
the West Indies resulted from the Smithsonian-Hartford Expedition.
The outstanding accession of mollusks was the Bohumil Shimek col-
lection of loess shells, obtained through the Frances Lea Chamberlain
Fund. This collection, of both recent and fossil species, consisted of
nearly 25,000 lots and aggregated more than a million individual
specimens. About 36,500 plants were added to the herbarium collec-
tions, from many points of North, South, and Central America.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 19

Geology—Important accessions in mineralogy were made possible
by several Smithsonian funds. Through the Canfield fund were pur-
chased minerals from Japan, Sardinia, Rumania, Greece, Austria,
California, Arkansas, Arizona, and Montana; through the Roebling
fund, seven American diamonds; and through the Chamberlain
fund, four cut gem stones. In all, 790 specimens pertaining to min-
eralogy and petrology were received. Seventy meteorite specimens,
many purchased by the Roebling Fund, representing 62 falls new
to the collection, were added during the year, the largest number since
the acquisition of the Shepard collection in 1915.

In the field of vertebrate paleontology, the collections benefited es-
pecially by the field expedition of C. W. Gilmore, and by material
presented by the United States Texas Centennial Commission. In all,
69 fossil vertebrates were added, including the partial skeleton of a
very large sauropod dinosaur of the family Titanosauridae, the first
to be found in North America.

Chiefly through the efforts of members of the staff, about 60,000
specimens were added to the collections in stratigraphic paleontology,
the most extensive and valuable accession of the year in this field
being an unparalleled collection of Devonian invertebrates made by
Dr. G. Arthur Cooper and Preston Cloud in the Lower Peninsula of
Michigan. Others came from the Chazyan rocks of northeastern New
York and Quebec. Rare brachiopods were obtained from Canada and
Nevada, and Devonian corals and crinoids from Michigan. Transfers
from the United States Geological Survey included collections in
Ozarkian, Canadian, and Chazyan brachiopods, numbering more
than 22,000 specimens.

Arts and industries—Models of the following airplanes were
added to the aeronautical collections: The Vickers Vimy plane that
made the first nonstop trans-Atlantic flight in 1919; the Sikorsky
S—40, the first of the clipper planes on airways over Florida, the West
Indies, and South America; the Wilford gyro; the low-wing tractor
monoplane Mohawk made for Col. Charles A. Lindbergh; and sev-
eral historic airmail planes, including the Queen Bleriot (1911), the
Curtiss modified “R” (1916), and the Northrop airplane that held
the 1934 record for transcontinental mail transport. The first cable
car to operate in Seattle, Wash. (1889), was presented to the Museum
by the City of Seattle. Several interesting original builders’ models
of watercraft also were received. Many miscellaneous objects per-
taining to communication, metrology, refrigeration, photography,
and tools and crafts continued to come in as gifts and loans, wel-
come additions to these sections, and nearly 1,500 specimens pertain-
ing to textiles, organic chemistry, wood technology. and medicine
were received during the year. To the graphic arts display were

11472839 3
20 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938

added 821 specimens showing printing processes (in 8 exhibition
cases) received from the United States Government Printing Office.

History.—More than 2,500 objects of historic and antiquarian value
were received, chiefly portraits, costumes, medals, mementos, and fur-
niture of historic characters. The series of awards and personal
mementos was enriched by a number of objects relating to the scien-
tific career of Dr. Charles D. Walcott, fourth Secretary of the Smith-
sonian Institution, a gift of Mrs. Walcott. Several pieces of parlor
furniture made in Paris for President James Monroe in 1817 and
used in the White House from then until 1937 were lent to the Mu-
seum by the White House for an indefinite period. The numismatic
collection was increased by 366 coins and medals, including a bronze
medal commemorating the invention of the bifocal lens by Benjamin
Franklin in 1784. The philatelic collection was increased by the
transfer from the Post Office Department of 2,088 specimens of
foreign postage stamps, cards, and envelopes.

EXPLORATIONS AND FIELD WORK

The scientific explorations of the year by members of the Museum
staff were financed principally by grants from the private funds of
the Smithsonian Institution or by contributions from friends of the
Institution. The investigations were varied in nature and brought
highly important results in additions to scientific knowledge and in
contributions of specimens to the national collections.

In May, Dr. Alexander Wetmore, Assistant Secretary, as repre-
sentative of the Smithsonian Institution, and chairman of the official
delegation of the United States, was in attendance at the Ninth In-
ternational Ornithological Congress, held in Rouen, France. At the
close of the meetings it was voted to hold the next Congress, which
will come in 1942, in the United States. Dr. Wetmore was then
elected President. Following the meetings he visited museums and
laboratories in Switzerland, particularly in Bern and Basel, and later
worked at the British Museum (Natural History) in London.

Anthropology—During April and May 1938 Frank M. Setzler,
head curator of the department of anthropology, continued an arche-
ological program in the trans-Pecos area of southwestern Texas.
Since 1931 Mr. Setzler has been attempting, as opportunity per-
mitted, to outline the aboriginal culture status of the cave dwellers
in the Big Bend region of Texas. His previous excavations at the
mouth of the Pecos contributed largely to knowledge of the unusual
physical types of this simple nonpottery-making horizon. This year,
through the L. L. Wilson fund, he was enabled to excavate a large
cave in the northeast corner of Terrell County. Though this pro-
duced no skeletal material, the 9-foot deposits of burnt rocks and
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 21

ashes contained sufficient aboriginal artifacts to show a direct cul-
tural relationship with regions to the south and west in the Chisos
Mountains and near Alpine. After examining additional material
from the Guadelupe Mountains, in the Carlsbad Archeological and
Historical Society Museum, and a small collection from caves around
Albuquerque, N. Mex., Mr. Setzler concludes that this prehistoric
phase has a much wider distribution than heretofore recognized, espe-
cially in the eastern part of New Mexico. The exact period of occu-
pation of these caves can only be surmised; but since no evidence of
Kuropean materials has been reported in association with the san-
dals, baskets, and other artifacts, he concludes that the caves were
abandoned before any of the early Spanish explorers visited the area.
Since most of their material culture comprises baskets instead of
earthenware vessels, they may have become isolated before the manu-
facture of aboriginal pottery became so widespread and indispensa-
ble among the prehistoric inhabitants in either the Southwest or the
Mississippi Valley. The chronological relationship, if any exists,
between the Big Bend Cave Dwellers and the Basketmaker phase in
northern New Mexico and Arizona as yet remains unsolved.

On October 14, Herbert W. Krieger, curator of ethnology, sailed
from New York for Charlotte Amalie, St. Thomas, to conduct arclie-
ological investigations in the Virgin Islands under a grant from the
Smithsonian Institution. The expedition was undertaken as a result
of information conveyed by Robert Nichols, superintendent of agri-
culture of St. Thomas, to the effect that a large shell mound existed
on the Island of Anegada, the northernmost of the British Virgin
Islands. The immediate objective was an exploration of the Anegada
mound, which required the cooperation of the United States Coast
Guard Service. A survey of the shell mound led to the conclusion
that the culture represented was similar to that of other nonpottery-
producing cultures discovered on previous Smithsonian expeditions to
the Dominican Republic, Haiti, and Cuba. At the conclusion of the
Anegada survey a trial excavation was made of the Indian midden
east of Road Town on the Island of Tortola. Later, excavations
were carried out in considerable detail on the A. S. Fairchild prop-
erty at Magens Bay on the Island of St. Thomas, and later at Ackles
on United States Government property on the Island of St. Croix.

These investigations led to the discovery of three distinct cultures,
all of which may be of Arawak origin—the shell culture on the Ane-
gada site, the early Arawak culture type of the Road Town site and
to a certain extent of the Magens Bay area, and the late Arawak cul-
ture of the Ackles site. An overlapping of the Arawak I and Ara-
wak II phases was strikingly illustrated in the excavations at Magens
Bay. A chronology of West Indian aboriginal cultures has conse-
quently assumed form. The sequence of the three main culture types
yy ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938

just indicated permits of the dovetailing as subcultures for Arawak I
(early Arawak) and for Arawak II (late Arawak) of the material
from certain sites in the Dominican Republic and Haiti excavated by
former Smithsonian expeditions from 1928 to 1931. It is quite clear
that the shell middens of the caves of the south shore of Samand Bay
(Smithsonian expedition, 1928) and of the Ile 4 Vache shell midden
(Smithsonian expedition, 1931) are-culturally related to the Anegada
shell midden. The expedition to the Virgin Islands thus has crystal-
lized tentative conclusions with regard to the classification of West
Indian culture sequences based on numerous investigated sites.

Dr. AleS Hrdlitka, curator of physical anthropology, assisted by
six students, spent the greater part of June, July, and August,
1937, in archeological investigations on the Aleutian Islands. After
reaching the Aleutian Islands the party received permission to work
in the Commander Islands in Soviet territory, but because of un-
foreseen circumstances the visit had to be very short. Although
there was little time for scientific work, enough information was
gained to encourage the arrangement for another visit. The Insti-
tution in its northern work is once more deeply indebted to the
United States Coast Guard for its excellent cooperation, which made
possible the work not only in the Aleutian Islands but in the Com-
mander group. In 1938, again through the cooperation of the United
States Coast Guard, archeological work was continued in the
Aleutian Chain and was well under way at the close of the fiscal
year.

From the beginning of the fiscal year until September 13, 1937,
Dr. Waldo R. Wedel, assistant curator of archeology, was occupied
in an archeological survey in Kansas, beginning a long-term program
that is planned to cover a complete survey of the entire State in
an attempt to establish the outlines of the aboriginal Indian cultures
throughout that region. It should also reveal answers to some of
the puzzling problems relating to prehistoric cultures in the Missis-
sippi Valley and in the Western Plains. By using early documentary
accounts some of the historic Indian sites can be definitely identified,
and thereby they may reveal a complex of material culture traits that
can be identified with their prehistoric antecedents. Dr. Wedel’s
investigations of 1937 included excavations at three village sites
along the bluffs of the Missouri River and above Kansas City, and
two in the Kansas River Valley near Manhattan. In the prolific site
on Line Creek, northwest of Kansas City, evidences were found of
an extended occupation of prehistoric origin containing two di-
agnostic types of earthenware vessels. One type has a general cord-
roughened decoration, while directly associated with it was a superior
ware bearing decorations closely comparable to the Hopewellian type
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY ya

of the Mississippi Valley and never before reported as far west as
Kansas City. An early Kansa Indian Village was also investigated
near the old river town of Doniphan, Kans. This village was visited
by early explorers in 1724 and again by Lewis and Clark in 1804. A
few miles below the mouth of the Blue River a circular house site
was excavated in an old Kansa village visited and described by
Major Long’s expedition in 1819. Dr. Wedel again resumed his
explorations in Kansas on May 11, 1938, and was in the field at the
close of the fiscal year.

Since Judge W. J. Graham’s death on November 10, 1937, ar-
rangements have been made for Dr. T. Dale Stewart, assistant cura-
tor of physical anthropology, to take over the excavations on an
Indian site at Potomac Creek, Va., and to advance the work from
the point reached by Judge Graham. During the latter part of the
fiscal year Dr. Stewart made several visits to the site for preliminary
surveys.

Biology.—Through the friendly cooperation of William N. Beach
and J. Watson Webb, the National Museum has secured a valuable
collection of large mammals from the Rainy Pass region beyond
Mount McKinley in Alaska. In preparation for this work pack
horses under charge of Harry Boyden were sent to Alaska in June.
Mr. Beach and Mr. Webb, accompanied by W. L. Brown, chief
taxidermist of the National Museum, arrived at McKinley Park
Station on the Alaska Railroad on the evening of August 13 and
continued through the park to join the pack outfit on the McKinley
River. Work in this field continued until the middle of September
and resulted in obtaining fine material for a habitat group of moose,
which will be mounted for exhibition. The largest bull moose se-
cured has a fine heavy set of horns with a spread of 65 inches. In
addition, the party obtained caribou and other mammals much needed
for the National Museum.

In continuation of work begun last year in West Virginia, Watson
M. Perrygo, scientific aid, made collections of birds and mammals
in Tennessee to obtain needed material for the National Museum.
Mr. Perrygo left for the field early in April, accompanied by Carle-
ton Lingebach as assistant, and began work in the Mississippi bot-
toms near Memphis. Work continued around Reelfoot Lake, on
the Cumberland Plateau, and in the high mountains along the
western border of the State, terminating on July 15 for the summer.
In mid-September the party left for the field again, Mr. Lingebach
being replaced by Henry R. Schaefer. The first collections were
made on Roan Mountain, one of the highest mountains in the East-
ern United States, with a summer temperature reputed to be the
coldest for the entire Southeast in the summer season. Following
24 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938

this, collections were made in the Clinch Mountains, and then the
party again visited the area about Reelfoot Lake to follow the fall
migration in that region. After further investigations in the cen-
tral and southern part of the State, they returned to Washington
the middle of November. The excellent collections of birds and
mammals secured will form the basis of reports similar to those pre-
pared for the work in West Virginia of last year. The work was
carried on under the W. L. Abbott fund.

During October and November Dr. Alexander Wetmore, Assistant
Secretary, traveled in northwestern Venezuela to make studies of the
birds through arrangements perfected under the friendly cooperation
of the American Minister, the Hon. Meredith Nicholson, and the
gracious assistance of Dr. E. Gil Borges, Ministro de Relaciones
Exteriores of Venezuela. In this work a survey was made of the
bird life along a line extending from Ocumare de la Costa on the sea
coast through the mountain range of the Cordillera de la Costa to
Maracay and from there to the northern Llanos, in the vicinity of
El Sombrero. In addition to securing an important collection of
specimens, Dr. Wetmore made many observations on birds in life.

Capt. Robert A. Bartlett again visited the western coast of Green-
land during the summer of 1937 on his schooner Morrissey and se-
cured important gatherings of marine animals that were presented
to the National Museum. Collections were made from Cape York
north by way of Northumberland and Hakluyt Island, to Smith
Sound.

Dr. D. C. Graham continued his collecting work in western China,
forwarding many specimens of insects and of birds and other verte-
brates.

Geology.—Dr. Charles E. Resser, curator of stratigraphic paleon-
tology, studied Cambrian rocks on the flanks of the Adirondack
Mountains in New York and Vermont and along the St. Lawrence
River in Quebec, making investigations in Pennsylvania en route. In
addition to collecting invertebrate fossils he was occupied in check-
ing the relations of the various strata examined in connection with
his work in the laboratory.

Dr. G. Arthur Cooper, assistant curator of stratigraphic paleon-
tology, accompanied by P. E. Cloud, returned early in the year from
a month’s investigations of the Devonian of Michigan. In the latter
half of September Dr. Cooper and Dr. Josiah Bridge visited the
Champlain Valley to study the Chazyan rocks, both trips yielding
excellent fossils. Dr. Cooper made a third trip in August, in company
with Dr. Bradford Willard, of the Pennsylvania Topographic and
Geologic Survey, to study the Tully formation along the Allegheny
Front and from Lock Haven to the Schuylkill Valley.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 95

E. P. Henderson was abroad from early in May until October
1937. Two months were occupied in attendance at the Seventeenth
International Geological Congress at Moscow, in visiting important
museums, and in collecting minerals in the Kola Peninsula and the
Ural Mountains. The remaining time was occupied in Ceylon study-
ing the gem deposits of that island, and in Japan in visiting minera-
logical institutions and dealers from whom interesting specimens
were obtained. Important mineralogical and geological collections
were made, but the more important results are the contacts and ex-
changes, either made or initiated, by which a large quantity of
Russian, Norwegian, Swedish, Scottish, and Japanese material will
be received.

As the field expedition of 1937 under C. W. Gilmore, curator of
vertebrate paleontology, extended well into the present fiscal year,
but brief mention was made of it in last year’s report. This expe-
dition in the Upper Cretaceous of the North Horn area in central
Utah, and in the Triassic of the Petrified Forest region of Arizona,
met with most gratifying results. The Utah area was a virgin field
so far as professional collecting was concerned, and the results ob-
tained fully justified the venture. A good beginning was made in
the development of a fauna for the North Horn formation of the
Upper Cretaceous, and a small collection of mammalian remains
indicated for the first time the presence of Paleocene strata in this
geologic section. The finding of a large sauropod dinosaur skeleton
in association with Upper Cretaceous dinosaur remains is a discov-
ery of much interest and fully establishes the fact that this group
of reptiles in North America lived into the Upper Cretaceous. Most
of the specimens obtained are new to science. From the Triassic of
Arizona important phytosaurian and amphibian remains were col-
lected that go far in filling gaps in our permanent collections. The
collections obtained filled 18 large cases having a combined weight
of nearly 3 tons. George F. Sternberg, as in previous seasons, ren-
dered efficient assistance, and George B. Pearce ably assisted as
field assistant.

In May, Dr. C. L. Gazin, assistant curator of vertebrate paleon-
tology, left Washington to head an expedition that will continue the
explorations in central Utah so auspiciously begun last season. This
will be followed by work in the Upper Eocene deposits of the Uinta
Basin.

MISCELLANEOUS

Visitors —Since the year 1932-83, when a low point was reached
presumably as a result of unfavorable economic conditions, the num-
ber of visitors to the various Museum buildings has steadily mounted.
26 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938

This year there were 119,638 more visitors than last, bringing the
total up to 2,408,170, which is our greatest annual attendance to date.
The attendance in the four Museum buildings was recorded as fol-
lows: Smithsonian Building, 371,770; Arts and Industries Building,
1,094,254; Natural History Building, 750,307; Aircraft Building,
191,839.

Publications and. printing—The sum of $21,000 was available dur-
ing the year for the publication of the Museum annual report, bul-
letins, and Proceedings. Twenty-six publications were issued—the
annual report, 1 volume of Proceedings completed, 5 bulletins, and
19 separate Proceedings papers. These aggregated 1,640 octavo pages
and 242 plates, an increase of 36 pages and 107 plates over last year.
The five bulletins issued were as follows: No. 100, volume 6, part 9,
The Tree Snails of the Genus Cochlostyla of Mincoro Province,
Philippine Islands, by Dr. Paul Bartsch; No. 166, The Oxystomatous
and Allied Crabs of America, by Dr. Mary J. Rathbun; No. 168,
Nearctic Collembola, or Springtails, of the Family Isotomidae, by
the late Dr. Justus W. Folsom; No. 169, The Fort Union of the Crazy
Mountain Field, Montana, and Its Mammalian Fauna, by Dr. George
Gaylord Simpson; and No. 171, The Pleistocene Vertebrate Fauna
from Cumberland Cave, Maryland, by the late Dr. James W. Gidley
and Dr. C. Lewis Gazin.

Volumes and separates distributed during the year to libraries and
individuals throughout the world aggregated 57,761.

Assistance from work relief agencies—The Works Progress Ad-
ministration of the District of Columbia continued the assignment of
relief workers to Museum offices, and during the course of the year
the number of such workers increased from 88 to 167. The work
performed totaled 130,205 man-hours, and embraced such tasks as
checking, labeling, and repairing library material; preparing draw-
ings and photographs; typing notes and records; model making and
repair; preparing, mounting, cataloging, numbering, and checking
specimens; labeling and drafting; translating; and assisting with
plaster casts.

Special exhibitions—Seventeen special exhibitions were held dur-
ing the year under the auspices of various educational, scientific, and
governmental agencies. The division of graphic arts featured 17
special exhibits—8 in graphic arts and 9 in photography.

CHANGES IN ORGANIZATION AND STAFF

During the year there were few changes in the scientific staff. In
the Department of Anthropology, Frank M. Setzler was appointed
head curator on July 1, 1937, and Harry B. Collins, Jr., was advanced
to associate curator, Division of Ethnology, on February 17, 1938. In
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 27

the Department of Biology, Dr. Leonard P. Schultz was made curator
of the Division of Fishes on January 16, 1938, and H. Harold Shamel
was advanced to senior scientific aid in the Division of Mammals on
September 3, 1937. In the Department of Geology, Bertel O. Reber-
holt, by reallocation was advanced to senior scientific aid in the Di-
vision of Physical and Chemical Geology, November 1, 19387. Wil-
liam E. Moran was appointed junior scientific aid in the Division of
Vertebrate Paleontology on June 16, 1938. In the Department of
Arts and Industries, Kenneth M. Perry was appointed assistant ex-
hibits worker in the Division of Mechanical Technology, on October
16, 1937.

On January 1, 1938, Norman H. Boss, chief preparator, Division
of Invertebrate Paleontology, returned to duty from detail to the
Greater Texas and Pan American Exposition at Dallas, where he was
assigned as exhibit supervisor for the Smithsonian Institution.

The Museum lost through death during the year four employees:
Arthur J. Poole, scientific aid in the Division of Mammals, on July
8, 1937, after 22 years 7 months of service; Daniel Clark, skilled
laborer, on August 23, 1937, after 28 years of service; Jacob Willy,
lieutenant of guard, on January 25, 1938, with 16 years of service;
and William Robinson, laborer, on May 14, 1938, with 20 years of
service. From the honorary staff the Museum lost through death
Dr. Maurice C. Hall, honorary custodian of helminthological col-
lections, on May 2, 1938.

Respectfully submitted.

ALEXANDER Wermore, Assistant Secretary.
Dr. Cuartes G. ABBOT,
Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.
md Tomes ve oy Sy

L™
aD
’

pera

APPENDIX 2
REPORT ON THE NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART

Sm: Pursuant to the provisions of section 5 (b) of Public Resolu-
tion No. 14, Seventy-fifth Congress, approved March 24, 1937, I
have the honor, on behalf of the trustees of the National Gallery
of Art, to submit the first annual report of the Board, covering the
fiscal year ended June 30, 1938, on its operations under the afore-
mentioned joint resolution.

Under the joint resolution of Congress it appropriated to the
Smithsonian Institution the area bounded by Seventh Street, Con-
stitution Avenue, Fourth Street and North Mall Drive (now Madison
Drive) Northwest, in the District of Columbia, as a site for a
National Gallery of Art; authorized the Smithsonian Institution to
permit The A. W. Mellon Educational and Charitable Trust, a pub-
lic, religious, educational, and charitable trust, established by the late
Hon. Andrew W. Mellon, of Pittsburgh, Pa., to construct thereon a
building to be designated the “National Gallery of Art”; and created,
in the Smithsonian Institution, a bureau to be directed by a board
to be known as the “Trustees of the National Gallery of Art,”
charged with the maintenance and administration of the National
Gallery of Art. This act provides that the board be comprised of
the Chief Justice of the United States, the Secretary of State, the
Secretary of the Treasury, and the Secretary of the Smithsonian
Institution, ex-officio, and five general trustees. The general trustees
first taking office were to be chosen by the Board of Regents of the
Smithsonian Institution; and their successors are to be chosen by
the majority vote of the general trustees.

On June 24, 1937, the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Insti-
tution appointed the following as general trustees of the National
Gallery of Art:

Donald D. Shepard, for the term expiring July 1, 1939;
S. Parker Gilbert, for the term expiring July 1, 1941;
Duncan Phillips, for the term expiring July 1, 1948;
David K. E. Bruce, for the term expiring July 1, 1945;
Andrew W. Mellon, for the term expiring July 1, 1947.

The Trustees deeply regret to report that Andrew W. Mellon, the
donor of the great art collection which has been deeded to the Gallery

29
30 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938

as well as the funds for the erection of the the gallery building to
house the collection, died on August 26, 1937; also that S. Parker
Gilbert, one of the original general trustees, died on February 28,
1938. On March 9, 1938, the three surviving general trustees, at a
meeting duly held at Washington, D. C., elected Paul Mellon to
serve the unexpired term of his father, the late Andrew W. Mellon,
and Ferdinand Lammot Belin was elected to serve the unexpired
term of the late S. Parker Gilbert.

On March 9, 1938, an organization meeting of the Trustees was
held in the Regents Room of the Smithsonian Institution and, after
full consideration by the Trustees, a draft of bylaws submitted at
the meeting was adopted as the bylaws of the Trustees of the
National Gallery of Art.

The bylaws provide that the executive officers shall consist of the
chairman of the Board, president, vice president, secretary, treas-
urer, director, administrator, assistant director, chief curator, and
such other executive officers as the Board shall determine. The
Chief Justice of the United States, ex-officio, is the chairman of the
Board.

At this meeting it was determined that the regular annual meet-
ing of the Board shall be held on the second Monday in February of
each year, at 9:30 a. m.

Also the Trustees elected the following executive officers:

Paul Mellon, president ;

David K. E. Bruce, vice president ;
Donald D. Shepard, secretary;
Donald D. Shepard, treasurer ;
David H. Finley, director.

The officers elected stated they would serve without compensation
for the time being. It was decided by the Trustees that the matter
of their later compensation, if any, should be considered at a subse-
quent meeting of the Board. The following Trustees were elected
as members of the three standing committees, provided for in the
bylaws:

EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE

Chief Justice of the United States;
Dr. C. G. Abbot;

Paul Mellon;

David K. BE. Bruce;

Donald D. Shepard.

ACQUISITIONS COMMITTEE

Paul Mellon;

David K. B. Bruce;
David EH. Finley ;

Duncan Phillips;
Ferdinand Lammot Belin.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY sent

FINANCE COMMITTE®

Hon. Henry Morgenthau, Jr.;
Hon. Cordell Hull;

Paul Mellon ;

David K. E. Bruce;
Ferdinand Lammot Belin.

Appropriate resolutions were passed relating to the reproduction
by photographs, or otherwise, of works of art controlled by the
Board, the use of such reproductions, the viewing and care of the
collection. The Board directed the treasurer, under the supervision
and subject to the approval of the finance committee, to cause to be
established an appropriate accounting system, including provisions
for the keeping of necessary books and records, so that the works
of art now under the control of the Board and all funds, securities,
and works of art and other properties of whatsoever character belong-
ing to or under the control of the Board and of such additions and
receipts thereto and disposition, withdrawals and disbursements
therefrom, may be properly recorded.

Under the trust indenture of June 24, 1937, between the Trustees
of The A. W. Mellon Educational and Charitable Trust, the Smith-
sonian Institution, and the Trustees of the National Gallery of Art,
the Smithsonian Institution received title to the works of art given
by The A. W. Mellon Educational and Charitable Trust, upon the
understanding that pending completion of the Gallery, the donor
would retain custody of the gift, at its expense, and that upon
delivery, the gift would form part of the permanent collection in
the custody of the Trustees of the National Gallery of Art. Pur-
suant to its offer, accepted by the Trustees of the National Gallery
of Art at its meeting on March 9, 1938, The A. W. Mellon Educa-
tional and Charitable Trust has defrayed the current administrative
expenses of the Gallery, as well as the expense of storage and the
care of the collection pending the completion of the National Gallery
of Art. During the 18 months ended June 30, 1938, the total of such
administrative expenses and expenses of storage amounted to about
$150,000 principally accounted for by insurance premiums on policies
expiring in 1940. The collection is now stored in the Corcoran
Gallery of Art. The collection is in excellent condition and is being
well protected and cared for. The current expenses for the custody
of the collection are at the rate of approximately $12,000 per annum.
Such expenses are being paid by The A. W. Mellon Educational and
Charitable Trust and, of course, are not recorded on the books of
account of the National Gallery of Art.

Pursuant to the joint resolution and the trust indenture of June
24, 1937, The A. W. Mellon Educational and Charitable Trust is
also proceeding, at its expense, with the construction of the National
32 - ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938

Gallery of Art on the site set aside for it by the Congress. At June
30, 1988, $1,796,147.29 had been expended upon construction, and
the foundations of the Gallery were substantially completed. We
are advised that if no unusual delay, occasioned by conditions be-
yond the contractor’s control, is encountered, the Gallery will be
completed by September 1940, and sufficient Gallery rooms will be
available for the display of the works of art by November 1940.
We are advised that the Trustees of The A. W. Mellon Educational
and Charitable Trust estimate that the total cost of the building
will exceed $15,000,000. Recording of such expenditures in the books
of account of the National Gallery of Art will be deferred until
completion of the construction of the Gallery.

Section 4 (b) of the joint resolution authorizes the Trustees to
accept and administer gifts of money or securities. In a letter dated
February 16, 1937, from the late Hon. A. W. Mellon to Hon. Kent
KE. Keller, chairman of the Committee on the Library of the House
of Representatives, Mr. Mellon stated that the endowment fund for
the Gallery, as proposed in his letter to the President of the United
States, had been fixed at an amount of $5,000,000. It is understood
that this fund is expected to be received by the Trustees of the Na-
tional Gallery of Art from the Trustees of The A. W. Mellon Edu-
cational and Charitable Trust, at or about the time of the com-
pletion of the National Gallery of Art.

There were no additions to the collection of the National Gallery
of Art during the year. However, the Gallery has received a number
of offers of gifts of works of art. Such offers were referred to the
acquisitions committee for consideration. Also there were no loans
of works of art under the control of the Trustees of the Gallery
during the year. No appropriation was made by Congress for the
National Gallery of Art during the fiscal year ended June 30, 1938,
and no public or private funds received or disbursed during the
year.

Pursuant to instructions, Price, Waterhouse & Co., a nationally
known firm of public accountants, has made an examination of the
accounting records of the National Gallery of Art, the accounting
system having been installed upon the recommendation of that firm.
Price, Waterhouse & Co. report that, based upon its examination,
the books of account of the National Gallery of Art fairly present,
in accordance with the accepted principles of accounting, the posi-
tion of the National Gallery of Art at June 30, 1938. Copy of the
certificate of Price, Waterhouse & Co., dated August 26, 1938, is
attached hereto and made a part of this report. It should be noted
that the only entry on the books of account of the National Gallery
of Art, as of June 30, 1938, was the opening journal entry of June
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 33

94, 1937, recording its acquisition of the collection of works of art,
there being no other transactions to June 30, 1938, which should be
recorded in the books of account. The gift of June 24, 1937, was
recorded on the books of account at $31,303,162.31, representing, ac-
cording to available information, the cost to the last person to ac-
quire the works of art by purchase. Of this amount $19,893,162.31
represented purchases of works of art by the late Hon. Andrew W.
Mellon, and $11,410,000 represented purchases by The A. W. Mellon
Educational and Charitable Trust. A list of the works of art which
were the subject of the gift of June 24, 1937, is attached to this report.
The certificate of Price, Waterhouse & Co. states that the receipt of
title to this gift was recorded properly in the Gallery’s books by the
opening journal entry.
The certificate of Price, Waterhouse & Co. follows:

AucusT 26, 1938.
Mr. Donatp D. SHEPARD,
Treasurer, National Gallery of Art,
716 Jackson Place NW., Washington, D. C.

Dear Siz: Pursuant to your instructions, we have made an examination of
the accounting records of the National Gallery of Art and other documentary
evidence, and have obtained information and explanations from its officers.
The only entry in its books of account as at June 30, 1938, was the opening
journal entry dated June 24, 1937, recording its acquisition of works of art;
our examination disclosed no other transactions to June 30, 1938, which should
be recorded in the books of account.

Pursuant to joint resolution of Congress, approved March 24, 1937, and trust
indenture dated June 24, 1937, The A. W. Mellon Educational and Charitable
Trust, at its expense, is proceeding with construction of the National Gallery
of Art. The recording of such expenditures in the books of account of the
National Gallery of Art is deferred until completion of construction.

By the aforementioned trust indenture title was acquired to the works of art
given by The A. W. Mellon Educational and Charitable Trust. Pending con-
struction of the Gallery, these works of art remain in the custody of the donor
to be cared for at its expense. This gift was recorded in the books of account
at $31,303,162.31, representing, according to available information, the cost to
the last person to acquire the works of art by purchase. Of this amount,
$19,893,162.31 represented purchases by Mr. A. W. Mellon and $11,410,000.00
represented purchases by The A. W. Mellon Educational and Charitable Trust.
The receipt of title to this gift was recorded properly in the Gallery’s books
by the opening journal entry previously referred to.

An endowment fund of $5,000,000 is expected to be received from The A. W.
Mellon Hducational and Charitable Trust at about the time of completion of
the Gallery.

In our opinion, based upon our examination, the books of account fairly
present, in accordance with accepted principles of accounting, the position of
the National Gallery of Art at June 30, 1938.

Yours very truly,
(Signed) Prick, WATERHOUSE & Co.
34 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938

LIST OF WORKS OF ART DEEDED TO NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART JUNE 24, 1937

Name of artist Title of picture
HravAngelico222- 225) The Madonna and Child.
Antonello da Messina__. Do.
18 Xo sees tere ee Portrait of a Member of the Contarini Family.
Giovanni Bellini_______ The Flight Into Egypt.
DP) QRS ee Eee Portrait of Young Man in Red Coat.
Bouicelint ses ee Adoration of the Magi.
1 0) Yeates oe The Madonna and Child.
1D) Qe ee ne ease . Portrait of a Young Man in Brown Coat and Red Hat.
Ge ee ee Ae Portrait of a Young Man in Mauve Coat and Red Hat.
Byzantine Master______ The Madonna and Child.

(circa 1200)
Castagno, Andrea del__. Portrait of a Young Man.

Gardin 2s, — La Maitresse d’Ecole.
0 Ses eee The House of Cards.
Christus, Petrus-_—-_—-. The Nativity.
Cimabues ae ees Christ Between St. Peter and St. James (a triptych).

Conegliano, Cima da__-- The Madonna and Child With St. John the Baptist
and St. Anthony.

Constables 2225.2 === A View of Salisbury Cathedral.

Ouyp ee ee ae ee ee Herdsman Tending Cattle.

Gerard Davyidl=*==—==25 Rest During the Flight Into Egypt.

Duccio di Buoninsegna_- 'The Nativity With the Prophets Isaiah and Ezekiel.

Dureri2—222 22. =- Portrait of a Man in Dark Cloak With Fur Collar.

Gainsborough_---_--~-- Portrait of Georgiana, Duchess of Devonshire.
ib) ee eee Portrait of George IV When Prince of Wales.
100 eee Landscape With a Bridge.
| Dee eee Portrait of Miss Catherine Tatton.

Ose aa ee Portrait of Mrs. John Taylor.

Dole eee Portrait of Mrs. Richard Brinsley Sheridan.
School of Giotto_------ Large Pancl Representing St. Paul.
Giovanni di Paolo_____-_ The Adoration of the Magi.

Goyaveteas fee ae Portrait of Senora Sebasa Garcia.

AD Yooh 2 af ee ee tS Portrait of the Marquesa de Pontejos.

1) 9S ee Portrait of King Carlos IV of Spain.

Dot ae Se ie ae Portrait of Queen Maria Luisa of Spain.

HMM Grecoss sss eer San Ildefonso of Toledo.

10 peas Lee ye eee St. Martin and Beggar.

Bransvilals=2_ 2222s Portrait of Balthasar Coymans.
Dosis ev ees 4 Portrait of an Officer With a Red Sash.
Doe ee ea Oe Portrait of Nicholas Berghem.

B70 Jena See EE aes A Portrait of an Old Lady Seated.

Dome Se aaa Portrait of a Young Man.
Hobbemalest) 24. sae La Ferme au Soleil.

DO seca wee es The Holford Landscape.

Dose eter ge Ak ieee Village Scene.

Hans Holbein (The

Wounger)-e25s-5 ess Portrait of Sir Bryan Tuke.

1 O19 Reese opens Meet eee Portrait of Edward VI as a Boy.

Pieter de Hoogh_______. A Dutch Courtyard.

Hoppnens ees As The Frankland Sisters.

Lancret, Nicholas_____-. The Dancer. La Camargo.

Eawrencer ee esos Lady Templetown and Child.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 35

Name of artist Title of picture
Lippi, Filippino__-_--_- The Madonna and Child With Angel.
aun 2 eae ee Portrait of a Lady.
Maes, Nicholas===-2222 Portrait of an Old Lady at Prayer.
Mantegna = 2s a ee St. Jerome in the Wilderness.
Ma saccio sees sas) Fine te Profile Portrait of a Young Man.
i Doe 20s BO ee The Madonna of Humility.
Masolino da Panicale__. The Annunciation.
Matteo di Giovanni____- The Adoration of the Magi.
DD ee a See ee The Virgin and Child With Angels.
IMiesrnnllain pene so ee Portrait of a Man With an Arrow.
1D jp Soren ee ee, The Madonna and Child With Angels.
Lippo Memmi__--_--_--_- The Madonna and Child.
MCS US See eee Se The Intruder.
Master Michael_______-. Portrait of a Donor (A Knight of the Order of
Calatrava).
VEOT OM 2c 2 28s rae 22h Self-Portrait With his Dog.
Neroccio dei Landi_____ The Vestal Claudia Quinta.
Allegretto Nuzi da
Mabriano. 222s See" The Virgin Enthroned (a triptych).
Perurings 2S ees. Crucifixion With the Virgin, SS. John, Magdalen, and
Jerome (a triptych).
Bisanelionw = ae A Portrait of a Lady Presumed to be Isotta degli Atti.
Reachburnates else Portrait of Colonel Francis James Scott.
1) OY 0:8 Sean = Re EN a Portrait of John Tait and His Grandson.
i) Oe ee Portrait of Miss Hleanor Urquhart.
Raph el see See Se The Madonna and Child (known as the Niccolini or
Cowper Madonna).
5D Ye ane Ss Ce aw Se ES Madonna of the House of Alba.
] 5 {0 pees AAs BE APE St. George and the Dragon.
Rembrandte22 22822 2: Portrait of an Old Lady Seated in an Armchair.
WD me et eth Ses Lucretia.
I) Qaezsre de Portrait of Himself, Dated 1659.
WD Qe etd se EL Portrait of a Polish Nobleman.
WO) $0397 LB Portrait of a Young Woman Holding a Pink.
TD) 2a 2 AE Joseph and Potiphar’s Wife.
i Oyo) AR ests tery Rass Oi see Portrait of a Girl With a Broom.
i OSes ea ee ae es Portrait of a Young Man at Table.
Reynold sell ues Portrait of Lady Betty Delmé and Her Children.
1 DXO Ae ee ee Portrait of Lady Caroline Howard.
10 oy se Se Ee eee Portrait of Lady Betty Compton.
ROMINe ye a SE Portrait of Lady Broughton.
1D Yo sreomeas A Been Portrait of Mrs. Davenport.
1D YG) eee Seige es Se Portrait of Miss Willoughby.
Rivens2 22-6 eee fu Portrait of Isabella Brant, First Wife of the Artist.
10 fee Bs Pe eg RU Portrait of Suzanne Fourment and Daughter.
Starnina= 2s, Eres The Virgin Enthroned with SS. Mark, Benedict,
Bernard and Catherine (a triptych).
Merborehee = eee A Gentleman Greeting a Lady.
AWE y 01S eee el eRe BO The Madonna and Child With the Infant St. John in
Landscape.
3 COR Be i a a Portrait of a Man (Andrea dei Franceschi).
A) Qtr era oes ct The Toilet of Venus.
ES Clete ee ee Mortlake Terrace (Summer Evening).

114728—39——_4
36 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938

Name of artist Title of picture
4 Mpbnayer cele we eye eee Approach to Venice.
Rogier van der Weyden. Portrait of a Lady in a White Veil.
D7) eeeae 8 PCA See The Risen Saviour Appearing to His Mother.
Via VG. ee Portrait of Lord Phillip Wharton.
1) Oe eee ee Portrait of William II of Nassau and Orange
1) Oe eee ee ee ee Portrait of the Marchesa Balbi.
Vane yecko2s2 sess The Annunciation.
Velasquez. 222225 = Portrait of Pope Innocent X,
DO. face ee Portrait of a Young Man.
Woe eee Se Woman Sewing.
Mermecr danas =e Girl With a Red Hat.
Don Sees ee: The Lace Maker.
ED) Qe a ie Smiling Girl.
Veneziano, Domenico___. Portrait of a Member of the Olivieri Family
Vieronese==2— 2 Paes The Finding of Moses.
SCULPTURES
Name of sculptor Title of sculpture
Agostino di Duccio_-___- Madonna and Child (marble bas relief).
Amadeo 28332 se 2 marble plaques with bust portraits in relief of Lodo-
vico Sforza and Gian Galeazzo Sforza.
Giovanni da Bologna___. A bronze statue representing Mercury.
Donatello === ss sos Bust of Youthful St. John the Baptist (painted terra
cotta).
1 DY tae eae ee Painted terra cotta statuette representing Madonna and
Child.
Fiesole, Mino da__-__--- 2 marble plaques representing Charity and Faith.
1) Qe oe ee ee Madonna and Child (marble relief).
Moauranae sea eee . White marble bust of a Princess of Aragon.
Luca della Robbia_--____ The Madonna and Child (tondo) (enameled terra cotta
relief).
| Do et aes a aso Aer The Madonna and Child (upright) (enameled terra
eotta relief).
OS Sass earn eae The Virgin Adoring the Child (unglazed terra cotta).
Rossellino, Antonio_____ The Madonna and Child (terra cotta).
Sansovino, Jacopo____-— Life size statue in bronze representing Bacchus and a
Young Faun.
iD) (eee et ae Life size statue in bronze representing Venus Anadyo-
mene.
Desiderio da Settignano_- Bust of Giovanna Degli Albizzi.
I) OM Sse eee Christ and St. John the Baptist in Their Childhood
(marble relief).
SD) et ah Life size marble bust of boy.
5D Yo yap Se eee as eee The Madonna and Child (marble relief).
Werrocchio=2= 222222 =. Statuette of Boy Poised on Globe (terra cotta).
II) eet ay oe ws Shanes Bust of Giovanna Tornabuoni (terra cotta),
1) Rae ake Beret Bae Bust of Giuliano de Medici (terra cotta).

Respectfully submitted.

Pav MEtton,

President, National Gallery of Art.
Dr. C. G. Apzot,

Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.
APPENDIX 3
REPORT ON THE NATIONAL COLLECTION OF FINE ARTS

Str: I have the honor to submit the following report on the activ-
ities of the National Collection of Fine Arts for the fiscal year ended
June 30, 1938:

The name “National Collection of Fine Arts,” which has now
been in existence for a year and a quarter, is perhaps still not well
understood. I wish to call attention, therefore, to the fact that the
National Collection of Fine Arts is the name now used to designate
the art collections administered by the Smithsonian Institution, with
the exception of those which The Andrew W. Mellon Charitable and
Educational Foundation will place in the building now under con-
struction which will be known as the “National Gallery of Art.”

Congress, late in the last session, passed a bill authorizing the
Smithsonian Institution to obtain plans for a building to be known
as the “Smithsonian Gallery of Art,” and authorizing the President
to select a site for it on the Mall between Fourth and Fourteenth
Streets. This new building will house the art collections under the
charge of the Smithsonian Institution which are not to be in the
National Gallery of Art. The bill also authorized the soliciting of
funds for the construction of the Smithsonian Gallery of Art, and for
an endowment to be used in purchasing works of art.

There were 484 visitors to the main office during the year. Many
submitted art objects for examination and identification, and others
sought general information.

APPROPRIATIONS

For the administration of the National Collection of Fine Arts by
the Smithsonian Institution, including compensation of necessary
employees, purchase of books of reference and periodicals, traveling
expenses, uniforms for guards, and necessary incidental expenses,
$34,275 was appropriated. This amount was reduced $750, bringing
it to $33,525, of which $16,542 was expended for the care and mainte-
nance of the Freer Gallery of Art, a unit of the National Collection
of Fine Arts. The balance of $16,983 was spent for the care and
upkeep of the National Collection of Fine Arts, nearly all of this sum
being required for the payment of salaries, traveling expenses, books,
periodicals, and other necessary disbursements for the care of the col-

37
38 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938

lections, so that only a very small sum was available for improvements
in the exhibition halls.

THE NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART COMMISSION

The seventeenth annual meeting of the National Gallery of Art
Commission was held on December 7, 1937. The members met at
10:30 at the rooms of the National Collection of Fine Arts, in the
Natural History Building, where, as the advisory committee on the
acceptance of works of art which had been submitted during the
year, they accepted the following:

A wood gravure of “Rockwell Studio,” by Macowin Tuttle. Gift of Mrs. Mary
H. Lathrop, Rockford, Tl.

The members then proceeded to the Smithsonian Building, where
the annual meeting was called to order by the chairman, Mr. Borie.
The members present were: Charles L. Borie, Jr., chairman; Frank
Jewett Mather, Jr., vice chairman; Dr. Charles G. Abbot (ex officio),
secretary; and Herbert Adams, Gifford Beal, George H. Edgell,
James E. Fraser, John E. Lodge, Paul Manship, George B. Mc-
Clellan, Edward W. Redfield, and Mahonri M. Young. Ruel P.
Tolman, curator of the Division of Graphic Arts in the United States
National Museum and acting director of the National Collection of
Fine Arts, was also present.

The following resolutions on the death of Mr. Andrew W. Mellon
were submitted and adopted, and Secretary Abbot was requested
to convey a copy to Mr. Mellon’s family:

Whereas the National Gallery of Art Commission has learned of the death,
on August 26, 1987, of Andrew W. Mellon, a member of this Commission since
1934; therefore be it

Resolved, That the Commission records its sincere sorrow at the passing of
Mr. Mellon, who devoted many years of his long life to assembling an excep-
tionally fine collection of paintings and sculpture. With patriotic generosity
he gave in 1937 this outstanding collection of masterpieces to the Smithsonian
Institution for the United States with the hope that Washington would become
the art center of the world. At the same time he provided funds for a monu-
mental marble building to be known as the National Gallery of Art, and
arranged for an endowment, proposed to be $5,000,000. No other gift of art
has ever equalled this one.

Mr. Mellon had a deep interest also in the great building program of the
Government, and did much, as Secretary of the Treasury, to promote it. Al-
though he lived to a great age, the Commission deeply deplores the untimely
death of Mr. Mellon before he could see and enjoy the full fruition of his work
and his beneficence.

Resolved, That these resolutions be spread upon the records of the Commission
and that the Secretary be requested to convey a copy to the family of Mr.
Mellon.

The Commission recommended to the Board of Regents the name
of David E. Finley to fill the vacancy caused by the death of Mr.

Mellon.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 39

It also recommended to the Board of Regents the reelection for
the succeeding term of 4 years of the following members: Charles L.
Borie, Jr., Frederick P. Keppel, George B. McClellan, and Mahonri
Young.

The following officers were reelected for the ensuing year: Charles
L. Borie, Jr., chairman; Frank Jewett Mather, Jr., vice chairman;
and Dr. Charles G. Abbot, secretary; as well as the members of the
executive committee—Charles Moore, Herbert Adams, and George
B. McClellan (Charles L. Borie, Jr., as chairman of the Commission,
and Dr. Charles G. Abbot, as secretary of the Commission, are ex-
officio members of the executive committee).

The advisability of recommending to the Board of Regents a change
in the name of the Commission was considered and the following
minute was agreed upon:

Owing to the appropriation of the name “National Gallery of Art” to the
gallery being erected to contain the gift of Mr. Mellon, the Commission recom-
mends to the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution that its name
be changed from “National Gallery of Art Commission” to “Smithsonian Gallery
of Art Commission.” *

The question of a building for the Smithsonian Gallery of Art, to
contain the National Collection of Fine Arts, and of a site for such a
gallery, was discussed, and Dr. Abbot, Messrs. Borie, McClellan,
Moore, and Keppel (with the addition of Mr. Edgell in case Mr.
Keppel was not available) were appointed to consider the two pend-
ing Congressional resolutions on this subject (S. J. Res. 99, by Senator
Walsh, and H. J. Res. 280, by Representative Keller).

It was decided that future annual meetings should be held on the
first Tuesday in December of each year.

THE CATHERINE WALDEN MYER FUND

Five miniatures were acquired from the fund established through
the bequest of the late Catherine Walden Myer, as follows:

“Portrait of Henry Trescot,” painted in 1822 by Charles Fraser
(1782-1860) ; from Mrs. Grace M. Trescot, Washington, D. C.

“Portrait of Elizabeth Knapp,” by James Peale, 1802; from H. D.
Miller, Baltimore, Md.

“Portrait of Charles Frederick Vogel,” attributed to Rembrandt
Peale; from Mrs. Margaret G. Mack Harrison, Raleigh Court, Univer-
sity, Va., through Miss Leila Mechlin.

“Portrait of Dr. George Ackerly,” by Henry Inman (1801-1846) ;
from Mrs. Josephine C. Gager, Washington, D. C.

“Portrait of Napoleon III,” signed “F. de Fournier, Paris, 52;”
from Miss Marion Lane, Washington, D. C.

1The Board of Regents, after careful consideration, decided that the name should be
“Smithsonian Art Commission.”
40 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938

LOANS ACCEPTED

Two portraits in pastel, by James Sharples (c. 1751-1811) of Gen-
eral James Miles Hughes (1756-1802), original member of the Society
of the Cincinnati, and Mrs. James Miles Hughes, his wife, were lent
by Madame Florian Vurpillot, Washington, D. C.

LOANS MADE

“The Cup of Death,” by Elihu Vedder, was lent to The American
Academy of Arts and Letters, New York, N. Y., for a Memorial Ex-
hibition planned for the period November 18, 1937, to May 1, 1938,
but the picture was returned April 12, 1938.

“Portrait of Thomas Hopkinson,” by Robert Feke, and “Portrait
of Mary Hopkinson,” by Benjamin West, from the George Buchanan
Coale (1819-87) Collection, Baltimore, were lent to the United States
Constitution Sesquicentennial Commission for a historical loan exhi-
bition of authentic portraits of the Signers of the Declaration of Inde-
pendence and the Deputies to the Constitutional Convention, held at
the Corcoran Gallery of Art from November 27, 1937, to March 1,
1938. (Returned March 3, 1938.)

“Cliffs of the Upper Colorado River, Wyoming Territory,” by
Thomas Moran, was lent to the Whitney Museum of American Art,
New York, N. Y., for “A Century of American Landscape Painting,”
which was held from January 19 to February 27, 1938.

At the conclusion of the above exhibition, the painting “Cliffs of
the Upper Colorado River, Wyoming Territory,” by Thomas Moran,
was forwarded to The Springfield Museum of Fine Arts, Springfield,
Mass., for “A Century of American Landscape Painting 1800-1900”
which was held from March 8 to 28, 1938. (Returned April 2, 1938.)

The following 20 paintings were lent to the Howard University Gal-
lery of Art for an exhibition of American paintings from May 2 to
June 13, 1938:

At Nature’s Mirror, by Ralph A. Blakelock.

Caresse Enfantine, by Mary Cassatt.

Portrait Sketch of Walter Shirlaw, by Frank Duveneck.
A Pool in the Forest, by Benjamin R. Fitz.

Birch-Clad Hills, by Ben Foster.

Ideal Head, by George Fuller.

Portrait of Mrs. Albert J. Myer, by George P. A. Healy.
The Visit of the Mistress, by Winslow Homer.

Friendly Neighbors, by Alfred C. Howland.

Georgia Pines, by George Innes.

Hvening on the Seine, by Homer D. Martin.

Great Silas at Night, by Robert C. Minor.

Cliffs of the Upper Colorado River, Wyoming Territory, by Thomas Moran.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY Al

The Path to the Village, by J. Francis Murphy.

Moonlight, by Albert P. Ryder.

Late Afternoon (The Alcazar, Segovia), by Wells M. Sawyer.
Portrait of Joseph Head, by Gilbert Stuart.

Edwin M. Stanton, by Henry Ulke.

Roosevelt Haunts, Early Autumn, by Emile Walters.

Autumn at Arkville, by Alexander H. Wyant.

(Returned June 14, 1938.)
LOANS RETURNED

Three paintings, “Madonna with Halo of Stars,” “Adoration of
the Christ Child,” and “The Christ Child with Cross and Torch,”
by undetermined artists, lent to the Public Library of the District
of Columbia, December 16, 1936, were returned September 27, 1937.

A bronze statue of Lincoln, by Augustus Saint Gaudens, lent, with
the consent of the owners, the Estate of Mrs. John Hay, to the
Great Lakes Exposition, Cleveland, Ohio, was returned October 5,
1937,

WITHDRAWALS BY OWNERS

An oil painting entitled “The Immaculate Conception with the
Mirror,” by Murillo, lent in 1980; withdrawn by the owner, DeWitt
V. Hutchings, Riverside, Calif., on November 19, 1937.

Two portraits, “Miss Jessie Jay Burge,” by Abbott H. Thayer, and
“Miss Elizabeth Ellery Burge,” by Thomas Mathewson, lent in 1922;
withdrawn by the owners, the Misses Marie Louise and Jessie Jay
Burge, Wickford, R. I., on March 3, 1938.

Portrait of Abraham Lincoln, by M. S. Nachtrieb, lent in 1921;
withdrawn by the owner, Anton Heitmuller, Washington, D. C., on
April 11, 1938.

One Sevres porcelain statuette, by Paul Dubois, entitled “Le Cour-
age Militaire,” lent in 1930; withdrawn by the owner, Hon. Hoffman
Philip, Washington, D. C., on May 17, 1938.

“A Madonna,” by Giovanni Battista Salvi (called Il Sassoferrato),
lent in 1929; withdrawn by the owner, Mrs. Charles J. Fox, La Jolla,
Calif., on May 31, 1938.

THE HENRY WARD RANGER FUND PURCHASES

The paintings purchased during the year by the Council of the
National Academy of Design from the fund provided by the Henry
Ward Ranger Bequest, which, under certain conditions, are prospec-
tive additions to our collections, and the names of the institutions to
which they have been assigned, are as follows (these are the first
purchases since April 1938) :
4? ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938

Title Artist Saree Assignment
112. Medieval Art..---.------ Edwin H. Blashfield, N. A. | December | William Rockhill Nelson Gal-
(1848-1936). 1937. ae of Art, Kansas City,
113. Fifteenth Century | Harry W. Watrous, N. A_--|--- douLti2ce Not assigned.
aes Madonna and
Chil
114. Becbolaer INO} 2iscsnceeae Francis Speight, A. N. A. |-..do....... Trustees of the Wood Art Gal-
(elect). lery, Montpelier, Vt.

THE NATIONAL COLLECTION OF FINE ARTS REFERENCE LIBRARY

The 795 publications accessioned during the year were obtained
through purchase, transfer, gift, and exchange.

SPECIAL EXHIBITIONS

Six exhibitions were held as follows:

August 2 to 8, 1937—A_ special exhibition of the art of Mexican
school children, 262 items, sponsored by the Ministry of Education,
Mexican Government, through Dr. L. S. Rowe, of the Pan American
Union.

October 15 to 31, 1937.—Joint exhibition of the Twenty Women
Painters and the Landscape Club, of Washington, D. C. Fifty-two
paintings were exhibited by the Twenty Women Painters and 61
by the Landscape Club.

February 4 to 27, 1938.—A special exhibition of 74 water colors by
William Spencer Bagdatopoulos.

April 6 to 29, 1938.—A special exhibition of 85 paintings, 20 framed
and 41 unframed water colors, 34 etchings, and 33 pieces of sculpture
from the National Collection of Fine Arts.

April 13 to May 7, 1938——A special exhibition of three portraits
by Henrique Medina, sponsored by Dr. Joao Antonio de Bianchi,
Minister from Portugal.

June 3 to 30, 1938 —A special exhibition of 260 naval historical
prints from the Eberstadt Collection, lent by the Naval Historical
Foundation. (This exhibition was extended through August.)

PUBLICATIONS

ToLMAN, R. P. Report on the National Collection of Fine Arts for the year end-
ing June 30, 1937. Appendix 2, Report of the Secretary of the Smithsonian
Institution for the year ending June 30, 1937, pp. 35-42.

LopceE, J. KE. Report of the Freer Gallery of Art for the year ending June 30,
1937. Appendix 8, Report of the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution
for the year ending June 30, 1937, pp. 43-47.

Respectfully submitted.
R. P. Totman, Acting Director.
Dr. C. G. Axssor,
Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.
APPENDIX 4
REPORT ON THE FREER GALLERY OF ART

Sir: I have the honor to submit the eighteenth annual report on
the Freer Gallery of Art for the year ended June 30, 1938:

THE COLLECTIONS

Additions to the collections by purchase are as follows:

BRONZE

38.5. Chinese, Chou dynasty. A ceremonial vessel of the type kuang. White
bronze with a smooth apple-green patina; traces of red earth adhe-
sions. The decoration is delicately cut in low and incised relief.
Inscriptions in vessel and cover. 0.235 by 0.310 by 0.112. (Illustrated.}

38.6. Chinese, Chou dynasty. A ceremonial vessel of the type chih. White
bronze having a silvery-green patina, with areas of rough green;
earthy adhesions. The decoration is in low relief. 0.190 by 0.089.
(Illustrated. )

38.7 Chinese, fifth-third centuries, B. C. Period of the Warring States. A
food-vessel; four animalistic knobs on the cover and mask-and-ring
handles on the body. White bronze having a smooth gray-green
patina, with areas of incrustation outside; a rough green aerugo
inside. The decoration is inlaid with silver and turquoise. 0.148 by
0.222.

38.8. Chinese, T‘ang dynasty. A mirror. The surface shows a lustrous gray
patina with areas of green and black, and patches of earthy adhe-
sions. The decoration consists of a dragon in clouds, executed in
low relief. 0.212 (diameter).

GOLD

37.45. Chinese, Ch‘ing, eighteenth century, period of Ch‘ien Lung. A ju-i
sceptre of gold filigree adorned with turquoise inlays. The designs of
the latter include those of the “Hight Treasures.” A silk tassel is
attached through a turquoise bead. Length, 0.240 (exclusive of tas-
sel). (Illustrated.)

JADE

38.16. Chinese, fifth-third centuries, B. C. Period of the Warring States. The
figure of a female dancer, carved in translucent white nephrite; an
eyelet for attachment. Height, 0.080.

MANUSCRIPT

37.46. Arabic (Persia), twelfth century. A bound volume of the Qur’dn (in-
complete). The text is written on paper leaves in Persian kifi script
in black ink with diacritics in red and green, 10 lines on a page.
Chapter titles, marginal marks, and verse-stops are illuminated. 0.314
by 0.292 (average leaf).

43
44

"88.15.

38.4.

38.9.

38.17.

38.2.

38.14.

38.10.

38.12.

ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938

Arabic, fourteenth century. A paper leaf from a Qur’dn. MTluminated
title-piece, marginal ornaments and verse-stops. The text is written
in naskhi script in gold and blue, 11 lines on a page. 0.3844 by 0.259.

PAINTING

Chinese, Sung period, thirteenth century. By Kung K‘ai. Chung K‘uel,
the demon-queller, on his travels. Ink on paper. Signature and
inscription by the artist; 22 other inscriptions; 188 seals plus one
seal on the label. Makimono: 0.828 by 1.695.

Chinese, Ytian dynasty, A. D. 1862. By Ni Tsan (1301-1374). Land-
scape. Ink on paper. Signature, dated. Forty-five seals on the
painting; two on the mount. Nine inscriptions. Makimono: 0.300 by
0.503.

Indian, Rajput, about 1600. Hanumiin standing before Rima and Sita,
enthroned and attended by Laksmana. Opaque color and gold on
paper. 0.163 by 0.245.

Persian (Mesopotamia), Baghdad school, A. D. 1222. By ‘Abdallah ibn
al-Fadl. Two physicians cutting a plant. In opaque colors and gold
on paper. This leaf is from the well-known Arabic translation of the
Materia Medica of Dioscorides; the text is written in naskhi seript
in brown ink with headings and punctuation in red. 0.330 by 0.249
(leaf).

Persian, early fourteenth century. An Illustration from a Manafi‘ al-
Hayawdn: a deer and magpies. In transparent colors, black and
slight gold on paper. Titles (recto and verso) are written in monu-
mental kifi script in blue; the text in a small naskhi hand in black
and red. 0.260 by 0.200 (leaf). ar

Persian, Mongol school, fourteenth century. An illustration from a
Shahnamah of Firdawsi: the bier of Iskandar (Alexander the Great).
In colors, black and gold on paper. The title of the painting is
written above it in gold naskhi script; the text in black naskhi. 0.408
by 0.298 (leaf). 0.250 by 0.280 (painting).

Persian, early Timurid period, Mongol school. Fourteenth century.
Two women carrying a tray with cups and a spouted pot. Ink out-
line, with additions of gold, and transparent red, blue, and green,
on paper. 0.195 by 0.158.

PORCELAIN

Chinese, eighteenth century, period of Ch‘ien Lung (A. D. 1736-95). A
vase. Hard, semitranslucent clay; brilliant gray-white glaze. Deco-
rated with landscape designs painted in colored enamels over glaze.
Inscription and three seals painted over glaze; a date-mark in under-
glaze blue under the foot. 0.244 by 0.182.

POTTERY

Persian, thirteenth century. Rhages (Raiy). A bowl (broken and re-
paired). Soft sandy, white clay; opaque white glaze (crazed); blue
border outside, and blue wash over the foot. The decoration is painted
in polychrome enamels and gold: inside, two seated figures; outside, a
formal pattern. 0.088 by 0.230. (Illustrated.)
Secretary's Report, 1938.—Appendix 4 PLATE 1

SOME RECENT ADDITIONS TO THE COLLECTION OF THE FREER GALLERY OF ART.
Secretary's Report, 1938.—Appendix 4 PLATE 2

SOME RECENT ADDITIONS TO THE COLLECTION OF THE FREER GALLERY OF ART,
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 45

38.18. Persian, thirteenth century. Rhages (Raiy). A bowl. Soft, sandy,
white clay; opaque grayish-white glaze (crazed and clouded). ‘The
decoration is painted in polychrome enamels, on both inner and outer
surfaces, including a medallion under the foot. An auspicious in-
scription executed in kuft script in white reserve on a blue ground.
0.086 by 0.205.

STONE SCULPTURE

38.11. Egyptian, Old Kingdom, IV-V Dynasty. The head of a young king
wearing the crown of Upper Egypt. (The beard and one eye-ball
are missing; one ear is chipped; the tip of the crown has been
broken off and replaced). Diorite. The right eye-ball is made of
fine marl, originally held in place by a copper band of which two
small fragments (completely oxidized) remain. Height, 0.580.

Curatorial work during the past year has been devoted to the
study of Chinese, Japanese, Korean, Tibetan, East Indian, Egyptian,

Arabic, Persian, Aramaic, and Armenian objects of art, including

manuscripts, and of the texts, inscriptions, or seals associated with

them—and in the preparation of this material for Gallery records.

Other things from some of these fields, and also Assyrian, Cretan,

Byzantine, and European objects were sent or brought to the Di-

rector by their owners for expert opinion as to identity, provenance,

age, quality, and so on. Im all, 810 objects and 316 photographs of
objects were submitted, and written or oral reports were made to
the institutions or private owners who asked for this service. Writ-
ten translations of 20 inscriptions in Oriental languages also were
made upon request.

Changes in exhibition have involved a total of 75 objects, as
follows:

Arahicuand  eersinnmeallisrap lyse. = —- 2s. es ee 20
lefensility. [op Nbs tne eee WR ee ee Se ee eas ee eee 18
(Chinesembronze lo ss) Se She ee ee Jee fe 14
(CLD aES EP 0) 0 | See ee ee ee ee eee eee 1
WHINESERSOLGn aN CieiRON= = Stee ee eet ee Se a 2
Chincsespaintinge = =e-=- see ene sere One ee ee 5
Whinesew porcelains see een ie ee ee en eee Se 6
Chinese ipotterya2 =. 2a ese ae bes ee oo ee ee 9
ATTENDANCE

The Gallery has been open to the public every day from 9 until
4:30 o’clock, with the exception of Mondays, Christmas Day, and
New Year’s Day.

The total attendance of visitors coming in at the main entrance
was 120,241. One hundred eighty-six other visitors on Mondays
makes the grand total 120,427. The total attendance for week-days,
exclusive of Mondays, was 86,652; Sundays, 33,589. The average
week-day attendance was 279; the average Sunday attendance, 646.
46 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938

The highest monthly attendance was reached in July, 18,182; the
lowest in December, 5,827.

There were 1,646 visitors to the main office during the year. The
purposes of their visits were as follows:

Hor. general “information= 2225225 22 ee ee ee ee ee eee 466
ALO: SCE: ODJECES IN—SLOMAL Ca saa eee a a a AD ee ee 503
Mar. astern. painting s0<. \ eee a ee eee 109
TMibetane pain tin 2c. 5 =o Se ieee pe aes Se ke es ae as ee oe eee 1
Near, Hastern paintings, and manuseripts==-2-- = 2 = ee al
Hast Indian: paintinespand Maniseripes sss a a eee eee 3
American paintings == set ese ee ee ee ee eee 50
Wihistler prints 2 es 28 see ee eee oe es ee ee ee a 15

Oriental pottery, jade, bronzes, sculptures_____-____________-__--__ 195 :

Hast} Christian “pain tines 2 oss. eee eee ee ee a ee ee 2

Woshimoton Manuscripts: 2 ee Se oe See eae ee 87
Loptead; in theslibrarys==— eee ae ee ee ee 2 ee 192
To make tracings and sketches from library books__._.__________________ 6
Dor see: building and Anstallation== 20) 22s eee ee ee ee Gt
Lorobtain permissions to photograph) OL sketGh===-— == —— a eeeee 10
To examine or purchase? photographs== sees 2) eS eee 388
Tovsubmityvobjects tor examinations sees = Se ees Or eee eee 168
ToyseexmembersoL the :Staili ses Cs ee ee ee eee 173
Toxseesthe exhibition galleries ons Mondays2> 22 ea ae eee 53

LECTURES AND DOCENT SERVICE

Two illustrated lectures on Musulman Painting were given by
Kustache de Lorey, Paris, Former Director of the French Institute
of Arts and Archaeology, Damascus, Syria:

Friday, April 8: Wasiti, a 13th century painter in Baghdad.
Saturday, April 9: Islam at grips with China.
One hundred and twenty-six persons attended these lectures.

Upon request, 9 groups, ranging from 6 to 17 persons (total 89),
were given instruction in the study rooms. One group of 17 per-
sons was given instruction in the storage rooms, and 10 groups rang-
ing from 7 to 50 persons (total 213) were given docent service in
the exhibition galleries.

PERSONNEL

On October 1, 1937, to the regret of all those associated with him,
occurred the death of Frederick R. Brill, watchman, who had been
at the Gallery since July 1, 1925.

William R. B. Acker, student assistant, returned from Japan on
December 22, 1937.

On January 1, 1938, the title “Curator” was changed to “Director”
and on May 11 the following titles of members of the staff became
effective:
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 47

Grace Dunham Guest, assistant director.

Carl W. Bishop, associate in archeology.

Archibald G. Wenley, associate in research.
Grace T. Whitney worked intermittently at the Gallery between

October 20, 1937, and June 380, 1938, on translations of Persian texts.
Respectfully submitted.
J. E. Lover, Director.
Dr. C. G. Axsgor,
Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.
APPENDIX 5
REPORT ON THE BUREAU OF AMERICAN ETHNOLOGY

Sir: I have the honor to submit the following report on the field
researches, office work, and other operations of the Bureau of Ameri-
can Ethnology during the fiscal year ended June 30, 1938, conducted
in accordance with the act of Congress of June 28, 1937. The act
referred to contains the following item:

American ethnology: For continuing ethnological researches among the Amer-
ican Indians and the natives of Hawaii, the excavation and preservation of
archeologic remains under the direction of the Smithsonian Institution, in-
cluding necessary employees, the preparation of manuscripts, drawings, and
illustrations, the purchase of books and periodicals, and traveling expenses,
$58,730.

SYSTEMATIC RESEARCHES

During the greater part of the fiscal year, M. W. Stirling, Chief
of the Bureau, was in Washington engaged in administrative duties
and in preparation of various publications.

From the latter part of January until the middle of March, 1938,
Mr. Stirling was in Mexico examining archeological sites and museum
collections. A site in the Canton of the Tuxtlas south of Veracruz
was selected for excavation during the winter of 1938-39.

At the beginning of the fiscal year, Dr. John R. Swanton, ethnol-
ogist, was engaged in the preparation of the final report of his re-
searches in the interests of the United States De Soto Expedition
Commission, of which he is chairman. One field expedition was
undertaken in connection with this research. It was directed in
the first instance to the southern part of Clarke County, Alabama, at
the invitation of James Y. Brame, Jr., of Montgomery, an indefat-
igable student of the route of De Soto, who hoped that he had dis-
covered the site of the old town of Mabila, where occurred a notable
battle between the Spaniards and Indians on October 18, 1540. The
site in question, at a place called Lower James Hammock, on the
bluff above Choctaw Lake, proved to be an interesting one and
specimens of certain novelty types of pottery were obtained, but the
question as to its identity with Mabila is still in doubt, the evidence
being rather negative. After this work was finished an attempt was
made to locate other Indian town sites in the southeastern part of the
county, but, aside from a very small one previously identified by Mr.

49
50 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938

Brame, nothing was found, there being, in fact, a singular dearth
of Indian remains in this county in the section where it would be
natural to look for Mabila. In the southwestern part of the county,
however, there is a spot to which the Indians resorted for salt, one
noted on early French maps, and here a considerable collection of
potsherds was made and a number of pictures of the site taken.
While Dr. Swanton was engaged in this investigation, the Choctaw
Hunting and Fishing Club kindly extended the use of its camp at
Choctaw Bluff.

After returning to Montgomery, Dr. Swanton proceeded to Tus-
caloosa and David De Jarnette, assistant to Prof. Walter S. Jones,
took him to Scottsboro and afterward on a number of trips along
the part of the Tennessee River valley believed to have been traversed
by De Soto. It seems to be indicated rather clearly that the Span-
iards crossed and recrossed this several times. Before returning to
Washington Dr. Swanton attended a meeting on October 29-80 called
by the De Soto Committee of the Society of the Colonial Dames of
America in preparation for a celebration of the quadricentennial of
the passage of the Mississippi by De Soto, and he delivered an
address at one of the sessions.

Dr. Swanton has also added some further material to his large
paper on the Indians of the Southeast.

In December he presided as vice-president over several sessions
of Section H, American Association for the Advancement of Science,
at Indianapolis.

In March he was appointed to the United States Board on Geo-
graphical Names to occupy the place made vacant by the death of
J. N. B. Hewitt, and he attended the twelfth annual meeting on
May 23.

Dr. Truman Michelson, ethnologist, left Washington early in July
1987 to undertake field work among the Montagnais-Naskapi Indians
of the northern shore of the St. Lawrence River and vicinity. This
work was made possible through a generous grant-in-aid made by
the American Council of Learned Societies. He arrived at Natash-
quan July 12 and spent 18 days there, following which he continued
his investigations at Seven Islands, Moisie, and Bersimis. Owing to
the migratory habits of the Indians Dr. Michelson was able to get
data not only on Indians of the localities named but also others in
this region, including Mingan, St. Margeret’s River, Godbout, Shel-
terbay, and Sheldrake. He was also able to check up his previous
information on the Indians of Davis Inlet, far north on the Labra-
dor coast; and by good fortune came in contact with an Indian of a
band from the northeast corner of Lake Kaniapiskau—a band barely
known to the scientific world. The principal object was to complete
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 51

a map showing the distribution and interrelations of the Cree and
Montagnais-Naskapi dialects. In addition to the linguistic work
which was the primary purpose of the trip, many new ethnological
data were obtained, together with certain observations in physical
anthropology. The remainder of the year was spent in Washing-
ton in the preparation of manuscripts and in routine work.

At the beginning of the fiscal year Dr. John P. Harrington, eth-
nologist, finished a comparative study of the Tano-Kiowan family
of languages, a compact body of dialects which have inherited the
same phonetics, grammatical peculiarities, and vocabulary, although
the Tanoan branch is typically Pueblo in culture while the Kiowa
branch is equally typical of the Western Plains culture. No lin-
guistic study shows better how habitat has produced two cultures by
migration from a linguistic nucleus which had perhaps originally a
third culture—possibly like that of the Flatheads of the northern
Rockies, from which region the linguistic progenitors of both Ta-
noans and Kiowans apparently came. The Tano-Kiowan situation,
however, is clearer than the surprisingly similar Athapascan situa-
tion, since there is historic information on the northern origin of
the Kiowa, whereas the migration of any body of southern Athapas-
cans from the north still remains theoretical. It is established that
both the Tanoans and the southern Athapascans of the southwest-
ern United States are of comparatively recent northern origin, at
least as far as their language-transmitting ancestors are concerned.

Returning to the study of the Devils Tower, which has a bearing
on the Tano-Kiowan provenience problem, Dr. Harrington was
assisted materially by Newell F. Joyner, custodian of the Devils
Tower National Monument, Devils Tower, Wyo., who supplied a mass
of material, including maps and other data. If the Kiowans came
from the somewhat far north, it is certain that their linguistic
relatives, the Tanoans, did also.

Working by similar methods, Dr. Harrington also made a study
of the Athapascan peoples. Here we have a northern linguistic
nucleus still extant, not of the past but of the present, and a family
of languages more intimately associated with the problem of the
original entry of man from Siberia into America, since if we exclude
the somewhat aloof-standing Eskimo, all the territory of America
nearest Asia is occupied by the Athapascan and related Tlingit
tongues.

Following up Goddard’s discovery that the Kiowa-Apache-Lipan-
Jicarilla form a separate language group, having shifted over-
aspirated fa to kh, that is, the # having assimilated the ¢ to its
articulatory position, Thomas’ recent work on the Prairie Apaches
was found of interest. A considerable list of the Prairie Apaches are

114728—39-—-5
52 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938

known to us by name through the old Spanish historical documents of
New Mexico, showing that the 4A language was spoken by many tribes
which covered a large area of the High Plains. The northernmost
of these tribes is reported in old Spanish sources from what is now
northeastern Colorado, only 150 miles south of the Black Hills. This
takes away the element of novelty from the fact that the Kiowa-
Apache joined the Kiowa in the Black Hills region about the year
1800 or earlier, and shows that the Kiowa-Apache also were merely
one of the kh speaking tribes, typically Prairie Apaches, and not an
Athapascan people en route migrating from Canada, as Goddard at
first conjectured. A report was finished on the northern provenience
of the Navaho and Apache.

Considerable time was also spent on a new sign language study,
through Kiowa informants and other sources, bringing out addi-
tional information regarding the nature and structure of this inter-
esting Plains Indian invention.

At the beginning of the fiscal year Dr. Frank H. H. Roberts, Jr.,
archeologist, was conducting excavations at the Lindenmeier Site
north of Fort Collins, Colo. This was a continuation of the pro-
gram of investigations started in the fall of 1934 and carried on
during succeeding summers. The location is one where Folsom
man, one of the earliest known New World inhabitants, camped
and made the weapons and tools that were used in killing and
dressing the big game that constituted his main source of sustenance.
Work was resumed in 1937 at the point where the 1936 activities
terminated and at the end of the summer an area of some 2,800 square
feet had been uncovered and numerous traces of occupation noted
and studied. Several places were found where bison and other large
animals had been dismembered, cooking fires lighted, and a feast
enjoyed. At other places there were indications that individuals had
been seated there manufacturing stone projectile points, knives, and
scrapers. Many charts were drawn recording the nature of the
assemblages of bones and stone implements and showing their distri-
bution. In addition, 133 diagrams illustrating the character of the
overlying deposits were prepared as the excavations progressed.
These, together with the extensive notes on the work, add valuable
data to the body of information on the mode of life and customs
of the people. A collection of 735 specimens was obtained and
among them were several new forms of knives, scrapers, and points.
These broaden the knowledge relative to the general complex and
nature of the material culture.

At the close of the excavating season Dr. Roberts proceeded to
North Platte, Nebr., where he inspected a number of collections be-
longing to local residents and visited the sites where many of them
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 53

were found. Through the interest of R. R. Langford, of North
Platte, he was able to see a number of locations where Folsom-type
objects have been found and add to the series of notes that is being
kept on the subject of Folsom distribution. From North Platte Dr.
Roberts returned to Washington.

The winter and spring months were devoted to office duties. These
included the study of the material obtained during the summer’s
excavations and the revision and completion for publication of a
manuscript on archeological work done in the Whitewater District
in eastern Arizona. Besides completely revising the text of this re-
port, 15 additional plans and diagrams were drawn to augment those
already prepared. This manuscript was turned over to the editor and
is to appear as Bulletin 121 of the Bureau of American Ethnology.
With the permission of the Chief of the Bureau and the Secretary
of the Smithsonian Institution, several short manuscripts were pre-
pared for publication in anthropological journals and other profes-
sional papers.

Dr. Roberts left Washington on June 7, 1938, for Fort Collins,
Colo., and again resumed excavations at the Lindenmeier Site. At
the close of the fiscal year the diggings had been reopened and a num-
ber of specimens obtained. These included several pieces of bone that
bear evidence of attempts at engraving designs on them and give
some indications of a certain amount of artistic effort on the part of
Folsom men.

Dr. J. H. Steward, ethnologist, remained in Washington during
the greater part of the fiscal year and completed his final report
on the tribes of the Great Basin-Plateau area. This was submitted
to the editor and will appear as Bulletin 120 of the Bureau. In
anticipation of an extended expedition to South America, Dr. Stew-
ard spent considerable time in making preparations for his projected
ethnological studies in the western part of South America. On April
20 he left Washington for Ecuador in order to begin this work. The
end of the fiscal year found him still in Ecuador working among the
highland Indians.

EDITORIAL WORK AND PUBLICATIONS

The editing of the publications of the Bureau was continued
through the year by Stanley Searles, editor.

BULLETINS ISSUED DURING THE YEAR

115. Journal of Rudolph Friederich Kurz, edited by J. N. B. Hewitt.

116. Ancient Caves of the Great Salt Lake Region, by Julian H. Steward.

117. Historical and Ethnographical Material on the Jivaro Indians, by M.
W. Stirling.
54 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938

RELEASED FOR PUBLICATION

118. An Archaeological Survey of the Norris Basin in Hastern Tennessee, by
Maj. William S. Webb.

The index of Schoolcraft’s Indian Tribes has been almost com-
pleted.

Work has been done on other manuscripts in the custody of the
editor.

Publications distributed totaled 16,569.

LIBRARY

There has been no change in the library staff. Accessions during
the fiscal year totaled 395.

Eight new exchanges were added during the year, three of these
being large, important sets, one domestic and two foreign.

Library of Congress cards have been obtained for practically all
of the new material received as well as for some older items. Analyti-
cal entries have been made for all periodical items in the Bureau’s
field received since April 1936. The depository set of Library of
Congress catalog cards is now installed in working order and has
proved to be a great help to the staff as well as to those in the library.

The librarian attended the meetings of the Inter-American Bib-
liographical and Historical Association in February 1938, and made
arrangements to exchange cards for South and Central American
Indian languages and folk-lore entries with Dr. Boggs, of the Uni-
versity of North Carolina.

ILLUSTRATIONS

Following is a summary of work accomplished by E. G. Cassedy,
illustrator :

ANN 2 GAY AN hs cs ee ee ea ee ee 175
BAI te ea = el a a en a gh an pce aint 25
Photos sretouched 32228 ee oe ee ee Se ee dd Se 2 eS 28
bettering *jobs2 os. 20se Ae Ble cee ee See 96
FIRE SET ASSO Tia te Bees ee SS SF ea a 213
Drawings, ete. sprepared. tor eneraversss ee ee eee 415
MiAgseramns .and (Chane Ae ee ae ee ee ee ee T
Graphs = eet trek SUL 34h BER ee PU eee eee eee Ee 6
Mechanical ‘drawines Sei ies eet hal tet ae ee ee ee 4
Wish Vara wines ss lee! bate S308 Sa Re ES ie ee ee ee 1

ALN i en a ge LIS HEN Teh Ue SE ae ge ee 970

a COLLECTIONS

144,848. One earthenware water jar from the pueblo of Acoma, and one deco-
rated basket made by the Aleuts of southwestern Alaska. (2
specimens. )
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 55

Accession
No.

146,287. Three figurine pottery fragments and three figurine pottery heads
from a railway cut near the Aguan River, Maloa District, north-
east Honduras, Central America. Purchased from J. R. Allsopp.
(6 specimens. )

146,689. Potsherds, arrowpoints, shell bead, and fragment of worked shell from
Liberty and Dade Counties, Fla. Collected by M. W. Stirling. (6
specimens. )

148,068. Earthenware vessels and fragments from Ulua River, Comayagua
River, and Lake Yojoa regions of Honduras, collected in 1936 by
Smithsonian-Harvard University Expedition under Dr. W. D. Strong.
(93 specimens. )

MISCELLANEOUS

During the course of the year information was furnished by mem-
bers of the Bureau staff in reply to numerous inquiries concerning
the North American Indians, both past and present, and the Mex-
ican peoples of the prehistoric and early historic periods. Various
specimens sent to the Bureau were identified and data on them fur-
nished for their owners.

Personnel.—Dr. W. D. Strong, anthropologist, resigned August
31, 1937. J. N. B. Hewitt, ethnologist, died October 14, 1937.

Respectfully submitted.

M. W. Strimure, Chief.

Dr. C. G. Axszor,

Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.
ean Tey Cyan

iy i iy

rr

a

y

APPENDIX 6

REPORT ON THE INTERNATIONAL EXCHANGE
SERVICE

Sir: I beg to submit the following report on the activities of the
International Exchange Service during the fiscal year ended June 30,
1938 :

The amount granted by Congress for that year was $44,260, the
same as appropriated for 1937. The collections from repayments
were $3,577.12, making the total resources available $47,837.12.

The number of packages handled was 719,121, a gain of 61,775.
The weight was 656,119 pounds, an increase of 4,658 pounds.

The number and weight of packages sent and received through
the Exchange Service is given below:

Packages Weight

Sent |Received Sent /|Received

—_—_————————|————qQqX | que \uwW

Pounds | Pounds

United States parliamentary documents sent abroad_---------- 1a bes | Pee 135; 064:|'- 2222 2222.
Publications received in return for parliamentary documents_--}_.-------- ONG Ti a= ee ees 26, 711
United States departmental documents sent abroad.___-.-_-_-- TOS MIR2 eee cee 1297300) |oas=-—=——
Publications received in return for departmental documents__-._|...------- 1Of2314|22- eso. 33, 537
Miscellaneous scientific and literary publications sent abroad_--| 154,730 |..-------- 2253006): |acseenen ee
Miscellaneous scientific and literary publications received from
abroad for distribution in the United States_._..._._....._..-_]---------- 7,048) |p oeoeeeeee 113, 501
Total!t8o sch cess case ean a shoe nae nae te ree eeu eesee eee 641, 735 77, 386 | 482,370 173, 749
Granditotal eeeseecs see se acne een eee ae ne ee ta 719, 121 656, 119

There were shipped abroad 2,639 boxes, an increase of 19 over the
preceding year. Of these boxes, 538 were for depositories of full
sets of United States governmental documents, and the remainder
(2,101) were for distribution to miscellaneous establishments and
individuals. There were transmitted by mail 111,475 packages, an
increase over last year of 24,179.

For a number of years the government franking privilege has been
in existence between the United States and Canada, Cuba, Mexico,
Newfoundland, and Panama, and exchange packages for these coun-
tries, therefore, have been sent direct to their destinations by mail
and not through the exchange bureaus in the respective countries.
In recent months this privilege has been extended. The complete
list of the countries with which this privilege is now in effect is as

57
58 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938

follows: Canada, Chile, Colombia, Costa Rica, Cuba, Dominican
Republic, Ecuador, Guatemala, Haiti, Honduras, Mexico, Newfound-
land (including Labrador), Nicaragua, Panama, Paraguay, Peru,
Salvador, Uruguay, and Venezuela. _

Shipments of exchanges to Spain, owing to the disturbed political
conditions in that country, have been suspended since August 1936.

Owing to the war in China, consignments to that country were
suspended in August 1937. The Chinese Bureau of International
Exchange, having moved its office from Nanking to Chungking, re-
quested the Institution to forward shipments to its new address, and
at the close of the year a large consignment was being prepared for
transmission to that bureau.

Packages for the National Library of Peiping, the Engineering
Reference Library, Nanking, and the Library Association of China,
instead of being included with the regular consignments to the new
address of the Chinese Exchange Bureau, are being forwarded to
Hong Kong in care of the Fung Ping Shan Chinese Library, at the
request of Dr. T. L. Yuan, who is officially connected with those
organizations.

FOREIGN DEPCSITORIES OF GOVERNMENTAL DOCUMENTS

There are forwarded to foreign depositories 111 sets of United
States official publications, 61 being full sets and 50, partial sets.
The depository of the full set sent to Chile has been changed from
Biblioteca del Congreso to Biblioteca Nacional, Santiago; the de-
pository in Mexico, from Biblioteca Nacional to Departamento Aut6-
nomo de Publicidad y Propaganda, Mexico; and the depository in
the Soviet Republic, from State Central Book Chamber to All-Union
Lenin Library, Moscow.

DEPOSITORIES OF FULL SETS

ARGENTINA: Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriores, Buenos Aires.

Buenos Arres: Biblioteca de la Universidad Nacional de La Plata, La
Plata. (Depository of the Province of Buenos Aires.)

AUSTRALIA: Commonwealth Parliament and National Library, Canberra.
New SourH Wass: Public Library of New South Wales, Sydney.
QUEENSLAND: Parliamentary Library, Brisbane.

SoutH AUSTRALIA: Parliamentary Library, Adelaide.

TASMANIA: Parliamentary Library, Hobart.

Victoria: Public Library of Victoria, Melbourne.

WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Public Library of Western Australia, Perth.

BELGIUM: Bibliothéque Royale, Bruxelles.

Bazi: Bibliotheca Nacional, Rio de Janeiro.

Canapa: Library of Parliament, Ottawa.

MaAntrosa: Provincial Library, Winnipeg.
OntTaArRIo: Legislative Library, Toronto.
Qursec: Library of the Legislature of the Province of Quebec.

Cutie: Biblioteca Nacional, Santiago.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 59

CuiIna: Bureau of International Exchange, Ministry of Hducation, Chungking.
CoLomBIA: Biblioteca Nacional, Bogota.
Costa Rica: Oficina de Depésito y Canje Internacional de Publicaciones, San
José.
Cusa: Secretaria de Estado, Direccién de Relaciones Culturales, Habana.
CZECHOSLOVAKIA: Bibliothéque de l’Assemblée Nationale, Prague.
DENMARK: Kongelige Bibliotheket, Copenhagen.
Egypt: Bureau des Publications, Ministére des Finances, Cairo.
Estonia: Riigiraamatukogu (State Library), Tallinn.
France: Bibliothéque Nationale, Paris.
GreGMANY: Reichstauschstelle im Reichsministerium fiir Wissenschaft, Ergiehung
und Volksbildung, Berlin, N. W. 7.
AustriA: National Bibliothek, Wien, I.
Bapven: Universitiits-Bibliothek, Freiburg. (Depository of the State of
Baden.)
Bavaria: Bayerische Staatsbibliothek, Miinchen.
Prussts: Preussische Staatsbibliothek, Berlin, N. W. 7.
Saxony: Siichsische Landesbibliothek, Dresden—N. 6.
WortemBpurG: Landesbibliothek, Stuttgart.
GREAT BRITAIN:
ENGLAND: British Museum, London.
GLAscow: City Librarian, Mitchell Library, Glasgow.
Lonpon: London School of Economies and Political Science. (Depository
of the London County Ccuncil.)
Huncary: A Magyar orszaggylilés konyvtara, Budapest.
InpIA: Imperial Library, Calcutta.
TRELAND: National Library of Ireland, Dublin.
ITaLy: Ministero dell’Educazione Nazionale, Rome.
JAPAN: Imperial Library of Japan, Tokyo.
Latvia: Bibliothéque d’Etat, Riga.
LEAGUE oF Nations: Library of the League of Nations, Geneva, Switzerland.
Mexico: Departamento Aut6nomo de Prensa y Publicidad, Mexico, D. F.
NETHERLANDS: Royal Library, The Hague.
New ZEALAND: General Assembly Library, Wellington.
NorrHern IRELAND: H. M. Stationery Office, Belfast.
Norway: Universitets-Bibliothek, Oslo. (Depository of the Government of
Norway.)
Peru: Seccién de Propaganda y Publicaciones, Ministerio de Relaciones
Exteriores, Lima.
PoLaAND: Bibliothéque Nationale, Warsaw.
PortuaaL: Bibliotheca Nacional, Lisbon.
RumaniA: Academia Romfni, Bucharest.
Spain: Servicio de Cambio Internacional de Publicaciones, Paseo de Recoletos
20, Madrid. Shipments suspended since August 1936.
SweEDEN: Kungliga Biblioteket, Stockholm.
SWITZERLAND: Bibliothéque Centrale Fédérale, Berne.
Turkry: Ministére de l’Instruction Publique, Ankara.
Union oF SoutH ArricA: State Library, Pretoria, Transvaal.
UNION oF Soviet SocraLtist Repustics: All-Union Lenin Library, Moscow 115.
UKRAINE: All-Ukrainian Association for Cultural Relations with Foreign
Countries, Kiey.
Urueuay: Oficina de Canje Internacional de Publicaciones, Montevideo.
VENEZUELA: Biblioteca Nacional, Caracas.
YUGOSLAVIA: Ministére de l’Education, Belgrade.
60 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938

DEPOSITORIDS OF PARTIAL SETS

AFGHANISTAN: Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Publications Department, Kabul.
Bottv1A: Biblioteca del H. Congreso Nacional, La Paz.
BRAZIL:
Minas GeErAES: Directoria Geral de Estatistica em Minas, Bello Horizonte.
Rio DE JANEIRO: Bibliotheca da Assemblea Legislativa do Estado, Nictheroy.
BRITISH GUIANA: Government Secretary’s Office, Georgetown, Demerara.
BULGARIA: Ministére des Affaires Etrangéres, Sofia.
CANADA:
ALBERTA: Provincial Library, Edmonton.
BRITISH COLUMBIA: Provincial Library, Victoria.
New Brunswick: Legislative Library, Fredericton.
Nova Scorra: Provincial Secretary of Nova Scotia, Halifax.
PRINCE EpwArpD ISLAND: Legislative Library, Charlottetown.
SASKATCHEWAN: Legislative Library, Regina.
CrYLON: Chief Secretary’s Office (Record Department of the Library), Colombo.
CHINA: National Library of Peiping, % Fung Ping Shan Chinese Library, Hong
Kong.
Danzig: Stadtbibliothek, Danzig.
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC: Biblioteca del Senado, Ciudad Trujillo.
Ecuapor: Biblioteca Nacional, Quito.
FINLAND: Parliamentary Library, Helsingfors.
GERMANY:
BREMEN: Staatsbibliothek.
Hamepure: Staats-und Universitits-Bibliothek.
Hesse: Universitits-Bibliothek, Giessen.
Luseck: President of the Senate.
THURINGIA: Rothenberg-Bibliothek, Landesuniversitit, Jena.
VIENNA: Magistrat der Stadt Wien, Abteilung 51-Statistik.
Greecn: Library of Parliament, Athens.
GUATEMALA: Biblioteca Nacional, Guatemala.
Harri: Secrétaire d’Etat des Relations Extérieures, Port-au-Prince.
Honburas: Biblioteca y Archivo Nacionales, Tegucigalpa.
IcELAND: National Library, Reykjavik.
INDIA:
Assam: General and Judicial Department, Shillong.
BENGAL: Secretary, Bengal Legislative Council Department, Council House,
Calcutta.
Broar and Orissa: Revenue Department, Patna.
BomBay: Undersecretary to the Government of Bombay, General Depart-
ment, Bombay.
BurMA: Secretary to the Government of Burma, Education Department,
Rangoon.
CENTRAL PRovINcES: General Administration Department, Nagpur.
Mapras: Chief Secretary to the Government of Madras, Public Depart-
ment, Madras.
Pungas: Chief Secretary to the Government of the Punjab, Lahore.
UNITED PROVINCES OF AGRA AND OuDH: University of Allahabad, Allahabad.
JAMAICA: Colonial Secretary, Kingston.
LirperiAa: Department of State, Monrovia.
LITHUANIA: Ministére des Affaires Htrangéres, Kaunas (Kovno).
Matra: Minister for the Treasury, Valletta.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 6l

NEWFOUNDLAND: Department of Home Affairs, St. John’s.
NIoGARAGUA: Superintendente de Archivos Nacionales, Managua.
PanAMA: Secretaria de Relaciones Exteriores, Panama.

PaRAGuay: Secretario de la Presidencia de la Reptiblica, Asunci6én.
Satvapor: Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriores, San Salvador.
S1am: Department of Foreign Affairs, Bangkok.

STRAITs SETTLEMENTS: Colonial Secretary, Singapore.

Vatican Ciry: Biblioteca Apostolica Vaticana, Vatican City, Italy.

INTERPARLIAMENTARY EXCHANGE OF THE OFFICIAL JOURNAL

The total number of copies of the Congressional Record and Fed-
eral Register sent to foreign depositories has been reduced to 104, the
copies sent to the Governor of Latakia having been discontinued.
Several changes have been made in the establishments to which those
documents are sent. A list of the depositories now receiving those
documents is given below:

DEPOSITORIES OF CONGRESSIONAL RECORD

ALBANIA: Ministrija Mbretnore e Punéveté Jashtme, Tirana.
ARGENTINA :

Biblioteca del Congreso Nacional, Buenos Aires.

Camara de Diputados, Oficina de Informaci6n Parlamentaria, Buenos Aires.

Boletin Oficial de la Reptiblica Argentina, Ministerio de Justicia e Instruc-

ciédn Ptblica, Buenos Aires.
AUSTRALIA :

Library of the Commonwealth Parliament, Canberra.

New SoutH WALES: Library of Parliament of New South Wales, Sydney.

QUEENSLAND: Chief Secretary’s Office, Brisbane.

WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Library of Parliament of Western Australia, Perth.
BELGIUM: Bibliothéque de la Chambre des Représentants, Bruxelles.
Bottv1A: Biblioteca del H. Congreso Nacional, La Paz.

BRAZIL:

Bibliotheca do Congresso Nacional, Rio de Janeiro.

Amazonas: Archivo, Bibliotheca e Imprensa Publica, Manéos.

BaHta: Governador do Estado da Bahia, SHo Salvador.

Espiriro SANTO: Presidencia do Estado do Espirito Santo, Victoria.

Rio GRANDE po Sut: “A Federacio,” Porto Alegre.

SERGIPE: Bibliotheca Publica do Hstado de Sergipe, Aracajt.

SAo Pavto: Diario Official do Estado de Sio Paulo, Sao Paulo.

British Honpuras: Colonial Secretary, Belize.
CANADA:

Library of Parliament, Ottawa.

Clerk of the Senate, Houses of Parliament, Ottawa.
CuHina: National Central Library, Nanking.

CuBA: Biblioteca del Capitolio, Habana.

CZECHOSLOVAKIA: Bibliothéque de l’Assemblée Nationale, Prague.
DENMARK: Rigsdagens Bureau, Copenhagen.

EGyptT:

Chambre des Députés, Cairo.

Sénat, Cairo.
62 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938

FRANCE:

Chambre des Députés, Service de l’Information Parlementaire Etrangére,
Paris.

Bibliothéque du Sénat, au Palais du Luxembourg, Paris.

Bureau de Documentation Générale, Ministére des Finances, Paris I.

Bibliothéque, Direction des Accords commerciaux, Ministére du Commerce,
Paris.

GERMANY:

Deutsche Reichstags-Bibliothek, Berlin, N. W. 7.

Reichsfinanzministerium, Berlin, W. 8.

ANHALT: Anhaltische Landesbiicherei, Dessau.

AUSTRIA; Bibliothek im Parlaments, Wien, I.

BRAUNSCHWEIG: Bibliothek des Braunschweigischen Staatsministeriums,
Braunschweig.

MECKLENBURG: Staatsministerium, Schwerin.

OLDENBURG: Oldenburgisches Staatsministerium, Oldenburg i. O.

ScCHAUMBURG-LipPpE; Schaumburg-Lippische Landesregierung, Biicheburg.

GIBRALTAR: Gibraltar Garrison Library Committee, Gibraltar.

GREAT Britain: Library of the Foreign Office, London.

Greece: Library of Parliament, Athens.

GUATEMALA: Biblioteca de la Asamblea Legislativa, Guatemala.

HonDuRAS: Biblioteca del Congreso Nacional, Tegucigalpa.

Huneary: A Magyar orsziggyiilés kényytaraé, Budapest.

InpIA: Legislative Department, Simla.

INDOCHINA: Gouveneur Général de l’Indochine, Hanoi.

IRAN: Library of the Iranian Parliament, Téhéran.

IRAQ: Chamber of Deputies, Baghdad.

Trish Free Strate: Dail Kireann, Dublin.

ITALY:

Biblioteca della Camera dei Deputati, Rome.
Biblioteca del Senato del Regno, Rome.
Ufficio degli Studi Legislativi, Senato del Regno, Rome.

LatviA: Valsts Biblioteka, Riga.

LEAGUE oF Nations: Library of the League of Nations, Geneva, Switzerland.

LEBANON: Ministére des Finances de la Republique Libanaise, Service du Ma-

tériel, Beirut.

LizertA: Department of State, Monrovia.

Mexico: Departamento Aut6nomo de Prensa y Publicidad, Mexico, D. F.
AGUASCALIENTES: Gobernador del Estado de Aguascalientes, Aguascalientes.
CAMPECHE: Gobernador del Estado de Campeche, Campeche.

Curapas: Gobernador del Estado de Chiapas, Tuxtla Gutierrez.

CHIHUAHUA: Gobernador del Estado de Chihuahua, Chihuahua.

CoAHuILA: Periddico Oficial del Estado de Coahuila, Palacio de Gobierno,
Saltillo.

CotiIma: Gobernador del Estado de Colima, Colima.

DugrAnco: Gobernador Constitucional del Estado de Durango, Durango.

GUANAJUATO: Secretaria General de Gobierno del Estado, Guanajuato.

GurERRERO: Gobernador del Estado de Guerrero, Chilpancingo.

JALISCO: Biblioteca del Estado, Guadalajara.

Lower CALirorNIA: Gobernador del Distrito Norte, Mexicali, B. C., Mexico.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 63

Mexico: Gaceta del Gobierno, Toluca, Mexico.
MicHoacAN: Secretaria General de Gobierno del Hstado de Michoac4n,
Morelia.

MoreELos: Palacio de Gobierno, Cuernavaca.

NAYARIT: Gobernador de Nayarit, Tepic.

NvuEvo LrEoN: Biblioteca del Estado, Monterey.

Oaxaca: Periddico Oficial, Palacio de Gobierno, Oaxaca.

PursLaA: Secretaria General de Gobierno, Puebla.

QUERETARO: Secretaria general de Gobierno, Seccién de Archivo, Queretaro.

San Luts Porost: Congreso del Estado, San Luis Potosi.

SrnaLoa: Gobernador del Estado de Sinaloa, Culiacan.

Sonora: Gobernador del Estado de Sonora, Hermosillo.

TABASCO: Secretaria General de Gobierno, Secci6én 3a, Ramo de Prensa,

Villahermosa.

TAMAULIPAS: Secretaria General de Gobierno, Victoria.

TLAXCALA: Secretaria de Gobierno del Estado, Tlaxcala.

VERACRUZ: Gobernador del Estado de Veracruz, Departamento de Gober-

nacién y Justicia, Jalapa.

YucaTAN: Gobernador del Estado de Yucat&in, Mérida, Yucatén.
NETHERLANDS InpiIEs: Volksraad von Nederlandsch-Indié, Batavia, Java.
New ZEALAND: General Assembly Library, Wellington.

Norway: Storthingets Bibliothek, Oslo.

Peru: Cimara de Diputados, Lima.

PoLaND: Bibljoteka Narodowa, Warsaw.

PortuGaL: Secretario da Assemblea Nacional, Lisboa.
RUMANIA:

Bibliothéque de la Chambre des Députés, Bucharest.

Ministére des Affaires Etrangéres, Bucharest.
SPAIN:

Biblioteca del Congreso Nacional, Madrid.

Catalunya: Biblioteca del Parlament de Catalunya, Barcelona.
SwirzERLAND: Bibliothéque de Assemblée Fédérale Suisse, Berne.

Bern: Staatskanzlei des Kantons Bern.

St. Gallen: Staatskanzlei des Kantons St. Gallen.

Schaffhausen: Staatskanzlei des Kantons Schaffhausen.

Zlirich: Staatskanzlei des Kantons Ziirich.

TurRKEY: Turkish Grand National Assembly, Ankara.
UNION OF SOUTH AFRICA:

Library of Parliament, Cape Town, Cape of Good Hope.

State Library, Pretoria, Transvaal.

Urvevay: Diario Oficial, Calle Florida 1178, Montevideo.
VENEZUELA: Biblioteca del Congreso, Caracas.
VATICAN City: Biblioteca Apostolica Vaticana, Vatican City, Italy.

FOREIGN EXCHANGH AGENCIES

ALGERIA, via France.

ANGOLA, via Portugal.

ARGENTINA: Comisién Protectora de Bibliotecas Populares, Canje Internacional.
Calle Callao 1540, Buenos Aires.

AustriIA: Internationale Austauschstelle, National-Bibliothek, Wien, I.

AZORES, via Portugal.

BELcIuM: Service Belge des Echanges Internationaux, Bibliothéque Royale de

Belgique, Bruxelles.
64 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938

Botrvia: Oficina Nacional de Hstadistica, La Paz.

Braziz: Servico de Permutacdes Internacionaes, Bibliotheca Nacional, Rio de
Janeiro.

BririsH Guiana: Royal Agricultural and Commercial Society, Georgetown.

BritTisH Honpuras: Colonial Secretary, Belize.

BuLGaRIA: Sent by mail.

CANADA: Sent by mail.

CANARY ISLANDS, via Spain.

CHILE: Sent by mail.

CuiInA: Bureau of International Exchange, Ministry of Education, Chungking.

CotomBIA: Sent by mail.

Costa Rica: Sent by mail.

CuBA: Sent by mail.

CzEcHOSLOVAKIA: Service Tchécoslovaque des Echanges Internationaux, Biblio-
théque de ]’Assemblée Nationale, Prague 1-79.

Danzia: Amt fiir den Internationalen Schriftenaustausch der Freien Stadt
Danzig, Stadtbibliothek, Danzig.

DrenMARK: Service Danois des Echanges Internationaux, Kongelige Danske
Videnskabernes Selskab, Copenhagen V.

DoMINICAN REPUBLIC: Sent by mail.

Ecuapor: Sent by mail.

Heyer: Government Press, Publications Office, Bulag, Cairo.

Estonia: Riigiraamatukogu (State Library), Tallinn.

FINLAND: Delegation of the Scientific Societies of Finland, Kasirngatan 24,
Helsingfors.

FRANCE: Service Francais des Echanges Internationaux, 110 Rue de Grenelle,
Paris.

GrerMANY: Amerika-Institut, Universititstrasse 8, Berlin, N. W. 7.

GREAT BRITAIN AND IRELAND: Wheldon & Wesley, 2-4 Earnshaw St., New Oxford
St., London, W. C. 2.

GREECE: Bibliothéque Nationale, Athens.

GREENLAND, via Denmark.

GUATEMALA: Sent by mail.

Harit1: Sent by mail.

Honpuras: Sent by mail.

Huncary: Hungarian Libraries Board, Ferenciektere 5, Budapest, LV.

IcELAND, via Denmark.

Inp1A: Superintendent of Government Printing and Stationery, Bombay.

ITaty: Ufficio degli Scambi Internazionali, Ministero dell’ Educazione Nazionale,
Rome.

JAMAICA: Institute of Jamaica, Kingston.

Japan: Imperial Library of Japan, Uyeno Park, Tokyo.

JAVA, via Netherlands.

Latvia: Service des Echanges Internationaux, Biblothéque d’Etat de Lettonie,
Riga.

LIBERIA: Bureau of Exchanges, Department of State, Monrovia.

LITHUANIA: Sent by mail.

LOURENCO MARQUEZ, via Portugal.

LUXEMBOURG, Via Belgium.

MADAGASCAR, via France.

MADEIRA, via Portugal.

Mexico: Sent by mail.

MozZAMBIQUE, via Portugal.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 65

NETHERLANDS: International Exchange Bureau of the Netherlands, Royal Library,
The Hague.

NEWFOUNDLAND and LABRADOR: Sent by mail.

NEw SoutH WALES: Public Library of New South Wales, Sydney.

NEw ZEALAND: General Assembly Library, Wellington.

NicaraauA: Sent by mail.

Norway: Service Norvégien des Echanges Internationaux, Bibliothéque de
VUniversité Royale, Oslo.

PALESTINE: Jewish National and University Library, Jerusalem.

PANAMA; Sent by mail.

PaRAGguAy: Sent by mail.

PERU: Sent by mail.

PoLanpD: Service Polonais des Echanges Internationaux, Bibliothéque Nationale,
Warsaw.

PortuaaL: Seccio de Trocas Internacionaes, Bibliotheca Nacional, Lisboa.

QUEENSLAND: Bureau of Exchanges of International Publications, Chief Secre-
tary’s Office, Brisbane.

RUMANIA: Bureau des Echanges Internationaux, Institut Météorologique
Central, Bucharest.

SALVADOR: Sent by mail.

Sram: Department of Foreign Affairs, Bangkok.

SoutH AUSTRALIA: South Australian Government Exchanges Bureau, Govern-
ment Printing and Stationery Office, Adelaide.

Spain: Servicio de Cambio Internacional de Publicaciones, Paseo de Recoletos
20, bajo derecha, Madrid. Shipments suspended since August 1936.

SuMATRA: via Netherlands.

Surinam: Surinaamsche Koloniale Bibliotheek, Paramaribo.

SWEDEN: Kongliga Svenska Vetenskaps Akademien, Stockholm.

SwirzERLaNp: Service Suisse des Echanges Internationaux, Bibliothéque Cen-
trale Fédérale, Berne.

Syrra: Sent by mail.

TASMANIA: Secretary to the Premier, Hobart.

TRINIDAD: Royal Victoria Institute of Trinidad and Tobago, Port-of-Spain.

TUNIS: via France.

TURKEY: Robert College, Istanbul.

Union oF SourH ArricA: Government Printing and Stationery Office, Cape
Town, Cape of Good Hope.

UNION OF Sovier SociaAtist Repusiics: Library of the Academy of Sciences of
the U. 8. S. R., Exchange Service, Leningrad, V. O.

Urueuay: Canje Internacional de Publicaciones, Ministerio de Relaciones Exte-

riores, Montevideo.

VENEZUELA: Sent by mail.

VictTorIA: Public Library of Victoria, Melbourne.

WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Public Library of Western Australia, Perth.

Yuaostavia: Section des Echanges Internationaux, Ministére des Affaires

Etrangéres, Belgrade.

Respectfully submitted.
C. W. SHormaxer, Chief Clerk.

Dr. C. G. Assgor,
Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.
as ee saan TITAS wy anttiee sai nse ive

bie rap ‘sia

¥

titra fense00) 2

an ante! ets skal) _nalyberialt: or
a hadars vii se es gk Ota es ie 6 Rl toe BM

even

ia ie ive eanrst JjRipaiet zara lott ferns Laconia) a

[ : { i yak
s Weed : be res
Jo a:

17 ed vi. a sieht i! ? at F ae etre Sieur ey, A fe a
‘Ae Pm ey : ae : 2 ae y -T.
on BAG a Sit) RESET E PEE Teor eRe Ve HTT ater Loe tir F* ‘thane crt >
- +f Lt é “ oli

ies Fes fe a lg AR ats ee ere iM
i. Y'einiraet 2) Cae IT Sed riinht anys hesitates F Meaty it ris 8

ve) ‘i | / i heii

g . i “ :
et Sodened wits ois! to iustrlyetive
fi ic 0 2 haripet? whol h iit eo)” Arians 6) ee + tn bh Mes ane © 4. f
Adie i Ald winda, Andacy vik ent ha od ra ty
. if ve 4 i) L ‘embetter Wh finwifon Tjed CURA i} 41
i he ; foie m ovale. Sebompesaa sims . bivheak *
Ne i Ei td
siins) dso af lo iT 4g
ig r pa wal F ¢ ar FY
74 no} PObiiits ofits it Eyes ie: ahs may
«ott
Het
‘ + ‘oft tes Sela Tea ron
da wee HS io ae Oink fay behianT li Ssioviianl apt y

p av x ae © . . B. } ae
Pe? RY SUL DR sill ey Aa seed Ww CORE
a =i
.* ; ékgodl Se th OTK de r r
. | Fo Rs ter) Gee i ae be Ms Ati obenhed? lee ckagr aa FY i sell
x, > sane ay we Yo eri TEOMA ihe) ea fered wip i
i oi mret sea oji 86 of ¥e rintis, BOO brie (duet T aby Tenolo ry iol ates +% "i aT ts
: iN | ue sehefei ds is = ard pe ih Prettiest ts A wien re Cs
mya ies ” ‘ nn e i pe J 7) oe me taj Atnwis vil t¢ ye. AE 4 A
i , Citas “ce , i base aii me
a Nie “ ASSET ESE sett, Lis eee oe lea: i tan
a Paes oe Pa wank. 5 Ke
F } Ate? alias ater Par IN ait are an aiithie w: é
; eYHnRA Kol orit sis La Bie atin ease ietatt ee walt ‘i nef

Ate yee Ov og bet nm ma Cetutn: ie a Arye

, Heid OO IM atin

ery CAR eR AN asm ce vis fe) anaes
UY Lh taal eine Vm, i Vitiine . ee pens

ty tae caw wiee A On Steal

ys Sie taba, pe. penal,
1h SOC, Wi: onthe

APPENDIX 7
REPORT ON THE NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL PARK

Sir: I have the honor to submit the following report on the oper-
ations of the National Zoological Park for the fiscal year ended June
30, 1938.

The regular appropriation made by Congress for the maintenance
of the Park was $225,000, all of which was expended.

IMPROVEMENTS

The stone large-mammal house, which had been completed in the
previous fiscal year, was stocked with animals during August and
September 1937, and was opened to the public October 13, 1937,
at the same time the giraffes, tapirs, African buffaloes, and
gaurs that had been obtained on the National Geographic-Smith-
sonian Expedition were moved into it. This building was described
and pictured in the last annual report.

W. P. A. work ceased on January 27, 1937, and was not resumed
until September 1937. From this date until the close of the fiscal
year W. P. A. workers were engaged mainly in cutting down the
hill between the new large-mammal house and the refreshment stand,
and in the construction of a stone retaining wall around the base
of the hill. This work had not been completed at the close of the
fiscal year. In addition, they demolished the octagonal elephant
house—the first building ever constructed in the Zoo—which had
been vacated when the elephants were moved to the new large-mam-
mal house, and they also demolished the brick elephant house in
accordance with the plans developed when the small-mammal house
was placed immediately adjacent to it. The area occupied by these
two buildings and the vicinity thereof was partially graded prepara-
tory to the placing thereon of other small exhibits and the providing
of pleasing open spaces. A small amount of work was accomplished
in connection with other minor grounds improvement, tree surgery,
and miscellaneous improvements.

Moving into the new quarters in the large-mammal house meant
several days of big jobs. A contract was entered into with a concern
equipped for moving large, heavy objects, and from September 1 to
September 22, as the African and Sumatran elephants, the hippo-

67
114728—39—6
68 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938

potamuses, and rhinoceros could be induced to enter large substantial
crates, they were moved from their old quarters into the new, large-
mammal house. Almost a full day was required for each animal
moved, and in some cases the gates of the Park were closed so that
visitors would not be in the way and would not be jeopardized should
an accident occur. Every possible precaution had been taken to
insure the successful accomplishment of the moves, and there was no
unhappy incident. The suggestion had been frequently made that
the elephants might be walked up to the building, but they had not
been accustomed to discipline outside of their yards, and it was
deemed inadvisable to do this. The crate used to move the elephants
was 10 feet 10 inches high, 7 feet 4 inches wide, and 18 feet long,
overall, and weighed 514 tons. Other smaller animals, such as the
tapirs and pigmy hippopotamuses, were moved by the Park force.

THE NATIONAL GEOGRAPHIC SOCIETY—SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION EXPE-
DITION TO THE EAST INDIES

As was recorded in the previous annual report, this expedition left
Washington in two sections. On January 19, 1937, Dr. Mann, direc-
tor of the Park, Mrs. Mann, and Dr. Maynard Owen Williams, chief
of the foreign editorial staff of the National Geographic Magazine,
sailed from Vancouver, B. C., for the Orient. Making various stops
en route, and visiting zoos in Japan, China, and Malaya, they finally
reached Pematang Siantar, in Sumatra, where the base camp was
established. On February 9, Roy Jennier, assistant head keeper, and
Malcolm Davis, keeper of the National Zoological Park, left Wash-
ington with 28 American animals and, sailing by way of Cape of
Good Hope, arrived at the Sumatra base camp on March 22%.

While the headquarters had been near the north end of the Island
of Sumatra, the animals were assembled from widely scattered points
in the southern Asiatic and Malayan region. Dr. and Mrs. Mann had
made trips to Siam, Johore, Singapore, Java, Celebes, and the Mo-
luccas, and had arranged with numerous parties to assist in the col-
lection of specimens. Noteworthy help was obtained from J. A.
Coenraad, director of the zoo at Siantar; J. M. Lynkamp, manager
of the Naga Hoeta Tea Estate, in Sumatra; and A. Baron Van
Styrum, of the Deli Railroad. The giraffes and African buffaloes
were loaded at Port Sudan, in accordance with arrangements that
had been made with the game warden of the Khartoum Government,
Egyptian Sudan.

His Highness, the Crown Prince of Johore, presented the expedi-
tion with a pair of black leopards and a fine Bennett’s cassowary.
From the Zoo at Fort de Kock, through C. Grootes, and from the Zoo
at Batavia, through J. M. N. A. Niemans, were received a number of
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 69

valuable specimens. W. L. Basapa, of Singapore, presented a Baska
turtle, and Dr. Harold Coolidge of the Harvard Primate Expedition,
a pair of Himalayan bears.

This expedition was financed by the National Geographic Society,
and the results to the Zoo were highly gratifying. On its return
all members of the party except Dr. Williams arrived in New York
September 27, 1937, where the shipment of 193 crates of animals was
divided. Seventeen hoofed animals were placed in quarantine in
the Bureau of Animal Industry’s station at Athenia, N. J., and the
remaining animals were brought to Washington by express. They
were sorted at the express car and loaded into trucks destined to
the respective buildings in the Zoo, and by noon of September 28
a large proportion of them were in their new quarters, taking baths,
grooming themselves, and otherwise getting ready to receive visitors
who were already arriving.

After the animals were finally counted and identified, it was found
that the expedition had brought in the following:

Summary of animals brought back by the National Geographic Society—
Smithsonian Institution East Indies Expedition, 1937

Individ-

Class Species uals
Whip Woavactsh iS Sake S eee es eee eee ee ee ee eee eee 46 Val
ESET ered SS eek Re es ot ee ei OE eae eee 93 649
Reptiles and jamphibians= =< 3 2 en ee ee 30 109
ADO) 3 lapeeee asthe Ny a aa leciy ieee | EE Oe RF Oe Ren Pn Jerre mes 169 879

The collection included numerous species never before exhibited
in the Zoo, and other species that had been badly needed. Among
them were Asiatic tapirs, both species of orang-utans, a pair of gaur,
16 birds of paradise of 4 different species, and a great many other
desirable birds. In the reptile collection were four species of cobras,
including two fine specimens of Hamadryads.

NEEDS OF THE ZOO

In the previous annual report under this topic, the following
appeared :

The old frame shelter now housing the restaurant and concession stand
is badly deteriorated and entirely inadequate to accommodate the large vol-
ume of business that has developed with the increasing attendance at the Zoo.

Construction of a suitable building would be a self-liquidating
undertaking, as the annual revenue derived from the restaurant con-
cession has been $6,012 per annum for the three years prior to July
1937, and for the following three years will be $9,012 per annum.
This money is deposited in the United States Treasury to the credit of
the General Fund, District of Columbia, and not available to the Zoo.
70 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938

VISITORS FOR THE YEAR

There were substantial increases in the attendance for the year,
both in individuals and in groups.

Uys See he a ie Se es 313700) Hebruary 2.2222 aes ee 165, 100
PAGE Ip ee EES a See BO ee Dn O00mMarehytss 2.0 sie ee ee ees 290, 000
Neplember = — ee PSO 400; CAT Tila so 2 os re eee ae eee 313, 100
Octobe 2= ee see ees ees 0 ON Us ih avi et mat peed ag oe 359, 700
INOVEMber22 ote tee Le eee 200! DOOM UTC e a eee Ae ey 225, 500
DecemberAi= Sek cee ees 1238, 050 woe
BAT Ue sy ee. ot Ee oh 132, 300 2 20) rl eee eee eee 3,127, 650

The attendance of organizations, mainly classes of students, of

which there is definite record, was 70,371 from 1,374 different schools
in 23 States and the District of Columbia, as follows:

Number | Number Number | Number
State of of State of of

persons | parties persons | parties
FAVA DaINAGS sea ne eee 20 J' ||, New Hampshire--.2--=22----- 72 1
@Wonnectionts2s2--3 Sees 379 10; iNew dersey=--222-2225222-25< 5, 768 66
Delawares..- Sh ose 772 THs) INGW:¥ Orestes ost To ares eee 3, 252 38
District of Columbia_-.----_- 14, 554 306 || North Carolina-.2-__._--..._- 2, 507 73
Hrorida. 2°... Seer ee 1 TOCO) ey eas eae CE Sie ENS SS oes SR 1, 813 51
Georgigy.2--3-%--- te Sut 991 abn PE GRRSVLVaninnt se nae eeeee 15, 408 308
MGI A one eee eee en ce 30 1 Rbodevsland’<-- tees 75 2
Men tneksy- <2. coc naceceeeese 25 Dl South Oaroling 2-2 se22 es 609 18
VAIO === epee sues wees 134 35), Bennesseeres-2ee= oc ee ea eee 202 6
Maryland. tie 02 25a 11, 866 106%) |. Vireiniay 2. 22 eee eo 9, 695 209
WMassachusetts:.. 2-2 222-2 382 Sit West Virginigs 2282 seese 1, 052 22
Wirenip an: ss 6s 402 ——-——.

8 ——
IVEISSOUTIS Yeeros oe eta 256 6 cB) 24 bape hae Ba 70, 371 1, 374

About 3 o’clock every afternoon, except Sundays and holidays, a
census is made of the cars parked on the Zoo grounds. During the
year, 31,159 were so listed, representing every State in the Union,
Canada, Mexico, Canal Zone, Alaska, Cuba, Panama, Hawaii, and
Puerto Rico. Since the total number is merely a record of those
actually parked at one time, it is not of value as indicating a total
attendance but is of importance as showing the percentage attendance
by States, Territories, and countries. The District of Columbia com-
prised slightly over 51 percent; Maryland, 19 percent; Virginia, 11
percent; and the remaining cars were from other States, Territories,
and countries. During years in which counts have been made on
Sunday as well as during the week it has been found that the per-
centage of cars from the District of Columbia, Maryland, and Vir-
ginia is less, and the percentage of the more distant States 1s corre-
spondingly increased. This is brought about by tourists coming to
the Zoo on Sundays when other points of interest are closed to them.

ACCESSIONS

Gifis—A number of specimens were received as gifts during the
year. Among the most interesting additions were two East African
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY re |

hedgehogs from President Franklin D. Roosevelt ; a Chapman’s zebra
from Mrs. Robert C. Winmill, Warrenton, Va.; a pair of dingos, one
South African spitting cobra, one golden cobra, and one puff adder
from the New York Zoological Park. From the Firestone Rubber
Plantations, Liberia, through George Siebold, manager, were received
a chimpanzee and a young leopard. The Florida Boy Scout con-
tingent attending the jamboree in the city presented a collection of
33 reptiles from their State.

The field representatives of the United States Biological Survey
continued their generosity in the form of various gifts, most important
of which were two bison (one an albino) from the National Bison
Range, Moiese, Mont.; three California murres, and one tufted puffin,
through O. J. Murie, Seattle, Wash.

DONORS AND THEIR GIFTS

Miss Nelda Acker, Washington, D. C., 2 Pekin ducks.

Paul Akers, East Radford, Va., hog-nosed snake, fence lizard, 2 salamanders.

S. S. Alderman, Washington, D. C., Pekin duck.

H. A. Allard, Arlington, Va., raccoon.

Mrs. Archambault, Washington, D. C., great horned owl.

L. M. Ashley, Takoma Park, Md., American egret.

Atherton’s Bird Store, Washington, D. C., Patas monkey.

Miss Selden Babcock, Washington, D. C., weasel.

Miss Amy Bailey, Washington, D. C., sparrow hawk.

B. D. Bailey, Wilson, N. C., barn owl.

S. M. Baker, Tomsbrook, Va., common crow.

A. T. Baldwin, Benning, D. C., double yellow-head parrot.

Baltimore Humane Society, Baltimore, Md., white-throated capuchin, sulphur-
erested cockatoo.

Dr. Thomas Barbour, Cambridge, Mass., rhinoceros iguana, soft-shelled turtle,
chicken tortoise.

G. Barksdale, Washington, D. C., silver pheasant.

Dr. R. 8. Bassler, Washington, D. C., horned lizard.

J. H. Batt, Washington, D. C., opossum.

T. M. Battle, Washington, D. C., brown capuchin.

Bakai Baysoy, Washington, D. C., grass paroquet.

Miss Helen Beal, Washington, D. C., 2 ducks.

Philip M. Blossom, Ann Arbor, Mich., 6 gnome or kangaroo mice, desert kan-
garoo rat, bushy tailed woodrat.

C. F. Borden, Washington, D. C., 4 pigeons.

Boulder Dam Recreational Area, Boulder City, Nev., 2 chuckwallas, collared
lizard.

Boy Scout Contingent, Florida, 2 Florida box turtles, gopher tortoise, pigmy
rattlesnake, diamond-back rattlesnake, 2 water moccasins, 2 water snakes,
chicken snake, corn snake, 2 garter snakes, 2 coachwhip snakes, horn snake,
indigo snake, black snake, Florida king snake.

Mrs. M. Bradburn, Washington, D. C., vervet guenon.

Bradford Armstrong Farm, Wheaton, Md., 6 mallards.
72 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938

Brookgreen Gardens, through P. L. Hovey, Georgetown, S. C., 6 southern fox
Squirrels.

Edward Brooks, Washington, D. C., opossum.

F. Charles Brown, Washington, D. C., barred owl.

Mrs. J. W. Brown, Washington, D. C., alligator.

B. J. Buck, Washington, D. C., black mallard.

G. R. Campbell, Lake Worth, Fla., coral snake, 2 rough-scaled green snakes,
hog-nosed snake, yellow-lipped snake.

Wm. H. Carrico, Washington, D. C., mud puppy, common newt.

Martin Carter, York Harbor, Me., coatimundi.

H. L. Cassiday, Richmond, Va., red-shouldered hawk.

Miss Edith Chinn, Chevy Chase, Md., black widow spider.

Miss Nellie L. Condon, New York City, hog-nosed snake.

Miss Isabelle Cooke, Washington, D. C., tarantula.

R. T. Cox, Washington, D. C., Javan macaque.

G. L. Crawford, Mayaguez, Puerto Rico, rock iguana.

Ralph Crone, Washington, D. C., barn owl.

L. B. Cross, Washington, D. C., raccoon.

Culver Summer School, through Capt. S. R. Esten and Adm. Hugh Rodman,
Culver, Ind., snapping turtle, box turtle, 7 geographic turtles, 16 painted
turtles, 3 musk turtles, Cumberland turtle, spotted turtle, 4 chicken turtles,
soft-shelled turtle, Blanding’s turtle.

John M. Davis, Arlington, Va., 2 black raccoons.

Charles F. Denley, Glenmont, Md., Siamese crested fire-back pheasant, cheer
pheasant, Soemmerring’s copper pheasant.

G. L. Dowden, San Gabriel, Calif., western bullsnake,

Herbert Eaton, Chevy Chase, Md., 3 opossums,

W. D. Eliot, Washington, D. C., Florida gallinule.

Hugene Ferson, Washington, D. C., 2 common iguanas.

Firestone Rubber Plantations, through George Seibold, Monrovia, Liberia,
African leopard, chimpanzee.

Mr. and Mrs. C. O. Fisher, Brentwood, Md., 2 cardinals.

A, T. Ford, Washington, D. C., red fox.

M. B. Foster, Orlando, Fla., worm snake, yellow-lipped snake,

Marty Gallagher, Washington, D. C., raccoon.

Arthur Garden, Washington. D. C., woodchuck or groundhog,

Joseph Gatti, Washington, D. C., blue jay.

Mr. Gaw, Washington, D. C., great white heron,

Miss Virginia Glass, Spring Lake, N. J., barred owl.

C. S. Goetz, Washington, D. C., yellow-naped parrot.

L. W. Gordon, Washington, D. C., 2 woodchucks or groundhogs.

Clarence L, Green, Cortland, N. Y., 4 garter snakes.

Gude Brothers, Florists, Washington, D. C., alligator.

Miss Mary Hamilton, Washington, D. C., grass paroquet.

H. H. Harland, Washington, D. C., sparrow hawk.

Louis A, Harris, Takoma Park, Md., albino squirrel.

Mrs. A. Hayden, Washington, D. C., alligator.

Charles Henderson, Concord, Mass., raccoon,

G. B. Howard, Washington, D. C., snapping turtle.

Mrs. W. W. Hughes, Washington, D. C., alligator.

H. N. Hunter, Washington, D. C., flying squirrel.

Laine Igenfritz, Washington, D. C., alligator.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 73

Mrs, Ingham, Arlington, Va., kinkajou.

H. W. Irwin, Arlington, Va., white-throated capuchin.

W. T. Jewell, Arlington, Va., 4 skunks.

Ellis 8S. Joseph, New York City, 6 long-tailed finches.

W. A. Kearney, Washington, D. C., red fox.

Olive Kinsman, Silver Spring, Md., 5 skunks.

Mrs. F. C. Kleindeinst, Washington, D. C., rabbit, guinea pig.

Albert Koontz, Washington, D. C., black widow spider.

Mrs. J. R. Kump, Washington, D. C., alligator.

John Landrum, Hast Radford, Va., black mallard.

David Lawson, Washington, D. C., nighthawk.

Otto M. Locke, New Braunfels, Tex., 50 horned lizards, 10 sealy lizards.

C, E. Loomis, Washington, D. C., yellow-naped parrot.

Joseph N. Lowe, Washington, D. C., 4 skunks.

Richard Lowe, Chevy Chase, Md., ferret.

P. D. Lowell, Chevy Chase, Md., 3 barn owls.

Carl Lutz, Washington, D. C., sparrow hawk.

Howard Maben, Washington, D. C., coyote.

Charles T’. Malone, Somerset, Md., 3 flying squirrels.

L. R. Mark, Washington, D. C., rhesus monkey.

Raymond Martin, Washington, D. C., alligator.

Mrs. Marx, Washington, D. C., small bird.

J. McDonald, Washington, D. C., Brazilian cardinal.

Mrs. O. McNey, Bethesda, Md., 2 guinea pigs.

George P. Meade, Gramercy, La., copperhead snake, DeKay’s snake, smooth-
sealed green snake, rough-scaled green snake, 3 Holbrook’s king snakes, 3 hog-
nosed snakes, 2 water snakes.

Bob Morgan, Miami, Fla., 2 alligators.

EK. T. Morrison, Hanover, Va., gray fox.

Museum of Vertebrate Zoology, through Dr. Joseph Grinnell, D. H. Johnson,
and Dale Arvey, Berkeley, Calif., 2 Great Basin pocket mice, Nevada pocket
mouse, kangaroo pocket mouse, 2 sagebrush chipmunks.

Miss Mildred Myers, Washington, D. C., alligator.

Miss Gladys Necker, Suitland, Md., white-throated capuchin.

Mr. Nees, Riverdale, Md., red fox.

New York Zoological Park, New York City, 2 dingos, South African spitting
cobra, golden cobra, puff adder.

Col. Newbold Noyes, Washington, D. C., American black bear.

Robert Nye, Washington, D. C., red-tailed hawk.

Paramount Aquarium, through Mr. Danisch, New York City, 2 large-headed
Chinese turtles.

Lieut. H. M. Perkins, Washington, D. C., coyote.

Philadelphia Zoological Garden, Philadelphia, Pa., 6 European vipers.

G. Phillips, Washington, D. C., woodchuck or groundhog.

James Phillips, Golden Hill, Md., American white-fronted goose.

G. H. Pollock, Washington, D. C., banded rattlesnake.

Ramadi Bunnay Rajamatri, Washington, D. C., small turtle.

Raymond Rapp, Washington, D. C., 2 Pekin ducks.

Wm. H. Reeser, Bay Ridge, Md.. biack snake.

Lawrence Reid, Langley, Va., American barn owl.

Mrs. Mabel T. Reid, Washington, D. C., titi monkey.

Lowry Riggs, Rockville, Md., spur-winged goose, toucanette.
74. ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938

Ralph C. Ringler, Grafton, W. Va., barred owl.

Mrs. R. C. Roberts, Chevy Chase, Md., opossum.

Mr. Rogers, Washington, D. C., Bonaparte’s weasel.

Buddy Roland, Washington, D. C., opossum.

President Franklin D. Roosevelt, The White House, 2 East African hedgehogs.

Paul Rose, Washington, D. C., black snake.

Louis Ruhe, Inc., New York City, slender-billed cockatoo, 2 Chilean flamingoes.

Mrs. B. F. Schoff, Washington, D. C., woodchuck or groundhog.

Carolyn Sheldon, Woodstock, Va., 8 Hastern chipmunks.

Fred Simpich, Washington, D. C., nine-banded armadillo.

Mrs. G. B. Smith, Washington, D. C., zebra finch, orange-cheeked waxbill, society
finch.

R. N. Smith, Washington, D. C., green guenon.

“Smoki People,’ through Paxson C. Hayes and G. C. Barnes, Prescott, Ariz.,
5 Western bullsnakes, 2 red rattlesnakes, 2 Mexican rattlesnakes.

Prof. EH. L. Strickland, Canal Port, Fla., scarlet snake.

D. R. Strohl, Arlington, Va., 2 Pekin ducks.

B. T. Tarman, Washington, D. C., American magpie.

Texas Cooperative Wildlife Service, through John Wood and H. R. Siegler.
Huntsville, Tex., 2 nine-banded armadillos.

Henry Trefflich, Inc.. New York City, spider monkey.

Mrs. Trundle, Washington, D. C., blue-fronted parrot.

U. S. Biological Survey, through O. J. Murie, Seattle, Wash., 3 California murre,
tufted puffin; National Bison Range, Moiese, Mont., American bison, albino
bison; Rodent and Predatory Animal Control Division, Washington, D. C.,
meadow mouse, Lemming mouse, jumping mouse, red-backed mouse, white-
footed mouse, pine mouse; Chandler R. Young, Lacreek Migratory Waterfowl]
Refuge, Martin, 8. D., 2 minks.

U. S. National Park Service, through A. E. Borell, Albuquerque, N. Mex., 3
spotted ground squirrels.

Miss Anna Van Bibbler, Washington, D. C., guinea pig.

E. G. Vaughn, Salisbury, Md., 3 red-shouldered hawks.

Adolph L. Vlasski, Washington, D. C., 2 Texas armadillos.

H. C. Walford, Washington, D. C., domestic goose.

Ernest P. Walker, Washington, D. C., western bullsnake, 2 dwarf rabbits, 4
long-tailed tree mice, grasshopper mouse, 8 salamanders, garter snake.

Miss Edith H. Ward, Washington, D. C., green pheasant.

Miss Mary Warren, Washington, D. C., 2 false chameleons.

Miss Lecla Washburn, Washington, D. C., eastern mole.

Washington Humane Society, Washington, D. C., robin.

Mrs. E. Weeks, Washington, D. C., alligator.

R. Wheat, Erlanger, N. C., flying squirrel.

C. T. White, Norfolk, Va., golden eagle.

F. 8. White, Washington, D. C., common boa.

K. C. White, Washington, D. C., 2 barn owls.

Miss L. Wilkins, Washington, D. C., alligator.

Billy Williams, Washington, D. C., alligator.

Mrs. Robert C. Winmill, Warrenton, Va., Chapman’s zebra.

Fred J. Young, Washington, D. C., skunk.

Donor unknown, 3 Harris antelope squirrels.

Births.—There were 34 mammals born and 80 birds hatched in the
Park during the year. Among the birds were two jackass penguins.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 75

MAMMALS

Scientific name Common name Number
Ammoragus larva. ...<.--------aw2s RORIGACL yak ee ees Ue 3
ESTO TIS giant igh eta ERE SE PAE pene en ASX R LCG es eter rent aE oe at 1
Ca TT TALE ETE tes plan dna al IE IS Og RIPE DRUM ee ea Ee 2
PAS TOMAS 2 SEA Eh og CO le tes en ee 1
Ganse rayus 2. teste Leach * Texas red Wo... - sweet: saos3- 4
CADrOMUS DUoTIaes.. ease SES 8 3. Hiia. pease) Bata oh ig bees 4
erties GLA Dis ae Se ena ee Red deer... beascee es ava beorens ie 5
Choeropsses ttbertensis= 5225: 52-4 -....- Pigmy hippopotamus_...__------ 1
Dame damit. _.-— 2998) 238s ep 5m Fallow deers... =. a eel 2
Equus quagga chapmani__------------ Chapman's zebra_....-s<eeecers 1
ReUS DACA. eee Ree Ale ee) TAR ce Sn ta cee teil ken ee 1
Hemitragus jemlahicus_.__------------ ol | 1 ere reba TC meat 1
WGI GURNEE Oe a hms. 2 os ee oleate 2
Macaca mordagtes! ac-e2leees).-.-. Javan nincaguée__. s4sece ee 1
Oryx beisa annectengswi2 == 22255----- [bean heiss oryx. .- «<2 eds as 1
Opis eurapaeusess ioe Sas ls ooleet) = Mahon. 3.7 5. ee ee 1
Setamimpon toate ee PS. Japanese deer... .- asstedss eee 2
Paurotragus Oryticue wr Note Bland hoes ee eee 1

BIRDS

vid® Gomenicd i088 eke areke ota en ee SO 3
CARTES Tg 1) Sa a Se See Sea Black or dusky mallard_____----- 9
Prana canadensis 2. oe Se OenAS GO0S8R2 - 22.5055 faces ea 5
Larus novaehollandiae.._...--..------- elven cull ot 6 ee a at
Spheniscus demersus_._._...- 24. -..~- kscknss pengnin 26 2522235 2

Eaechanges—Among important specimens received in exchange
from various sources were: One South American lesser tiger cat, one
hairy armadillo, one tamarin, three smooth-clawed frogs, one pair
dwarf cavies, one giant anteater, and one Sumatran gibbon.

Purchases—Important purchases during the year were a pair of
Pacific otters, a pair of ring-tailed lemurs, a pair of cheetas, a pair of
Tasmanian devils, a red ouakari monkey, a pair of brush-tailed por-
cupines, two pottos, one gaboon viper, two tree vipers, one leaf toad,
and one giant frog (Rana goliath), the first of its kind ever exhibited
at the Park.

REMOVALS

Deaths —The death on August 12, 1937, of “Babe,” the Indian ele-
phant presented to the Park in May 1934 by Ringling Brothers-
Barnum and Bailey Circus, removed a famous animal with a record
of 51 years with circuses, and more than 3 years in the Zoo. Other
major losses included two Asiatic tapirs, one Bactrian camel, and a
Steller’s sea lion.

All specimens of scientific value that died during the year were sent
to the National Museum.
76 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938

ANIMALS IN COLLECTION THAT HAD NOT PREVIOUSLY BEEN EXHIBITED

MAMMALS
Scientific name Common name
PAP CLONYS COMMER Sass og see eS Hog badger.
Calloscvurus piceus: 224 Sey Beek. Beautiful squirrel.
Charronia flavigula henrieii__.._._________- Asiatic marten.
Cuon javanicus sumatrensis___..-_.-------- Sumatran wild dog.
CUnamihecus:tonsuse 2 CORN oe Black macaque.
UNL CULILS PERC TULA 39a cy ge Egyptian jerboa.
DMSCOUTU RAS i ee COCR Ae, Tamarin or black marmoset.
ET Cra one LEplOny es — ose ee Small-clawed otter.
GY GPP e AR 5 YE a a De | White-lipped tamarin.
INYELECEDUS: COUCONG xo nck a eg Slow loris.
TES DULES BUTTS oe ee Se oa, Javan langur or lotong.
CUNT O UBCOLOT 2 hab to ee, SEES SR Javan giant squirrel.
PE CLECED GG: MLC ET OURO Shoes ens 2 pep Ceylon giant squirrel.
PL RCCITIER, BUVOLE OB se ts Jee Ie as Sumatran brush-tailed porcupine.
PINOT CUR CS ECOL CES ch pt hg A A Javan brown squirrel.
LESS TGR SL RM A NOS a el ED ERT er Ee Tree shrew.
BIRDS
Aploneschaijbeds sao 2 So See oe Se Glossy aplonis.
Peremicorniscomaius. S225 2-32 2225S Long-crested hornbill.
Calyptorhynchus magnificus......--------- Banksian cockatoo.
Chalcapatiticdtraien 550 oes. hole Ss Se Black lory.
Puclawpinons . 2 Ses s5 eee ee 2 Red-eyed fruit pigeon.
GPU UC COR CN ae rat oe de Be Be Lesser frigate bird.
GIS CON ET OURS Rs. eR CE Lee ela Malay stork.
IEE OTT T) HL 1S Ae aN RP Ni, aR Sie | Fairy blue bird.
TCU EL ICGUIT be 8 te nt eee ek tN ps al Malay fishing owl.
am proireron jasnuies 2 5. Slee? ee Pink-headed fruit pigeon.
Opruen: Wierd sd 22 a) eit e vcr tys al Jee Siamese crested fire-back pheasant.
DRT EL: ee Coe ec Malayan fire-back pheasant.
NSERC OG URAL ce se ee Black manucode.
WMeganodius jreycineit=. 22 ee Fe ne Molucca megapode.
ECS GL OCTHAUIAS. = 2 th ok Ph Oe oy Se SS Silver-eared mesia.
Muyrisisctvora becolon<2 32 = 2 322 ee Pied imperial pigeon.
COrtolaa CRURCNSEG 6 a ek le, Sumatran oriole.
WLOGGTUUs Str ig0ldes 2 22 ee eee Tawny frogmouth.
HeSCUGCORIUSCOlG= 6 se = me ee es ye Dusky lory.
PSteenas JUIGIAOSe, 87 8s ee Vulturine parrot.
PEIAOPIUES WUE WIERONES oe Pe ee Purple-shouldered fruit pigeon.
Pilnopus regingsa2s 22. Stee 2 oe as Purple-capped fruit pigeon.
Ptilonorhynchus violaceus_.......-.-.----- Satin bower bird.
TEP LTE YS.) (ea aoe Aer SE SPREE Oe eae ieee Sr Vera Sumatran rail.
O DILONNIS MIDGIENSISL 2. ie ye ee Serpent eagle.
ORUGRALL US OVACICRE 2 Pe ee te Mueller’s parrot.

Uria alge calvjornicas.) <= A ees California murre.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY Fi

REPTILES
Acanthosaura armata_..-=---=--.-=-+==+-- Armed tree lizard.
PALES IGIOT REIIENIST SS =o Moria ete he Sk Chinese alligator.
EH IIGUIET Se Sense eho fe Baska turtle.
PRR GPEUNRONN A! Nhe cit! oe ee Cat-eyed tree snake.
Dentspnta siperua= 2c S- = She Se ee Australian copper-head snake.
Geaclemusiaubirtimgas 2.2 ee ee ere Siamese field turtle.
GEOL HUCE TOR sn ee Spiny hill tortoise.
DVGLCCHIN I SCIN DIR 288 ee ce a ae ne Australian tiger snake.
Physignathus cocincinus.—_....-_------==- Siamese water dragon.
PPO re AOR USNS oe a Amethystine python.
Ua aRee ee e Giant frog.
PHMerBRUruai pe =o 8c = 8 oo a tana Palm viper.
Tonge Carttlogeneus. -—. .--- 5 ---- = =e Asiatic soft-shelled turtle.

Statement of accessions

Received
from
qiietionsl 2
eographic- re-
Class Smithsonian} sented
Institution
East Indies
Expedition

Received
Born in
exchange

Pur- On de-

chased posit Total

121
649

AnimalssonuhandydulyalslOSta 22k See ee Se ee Se ee Mees 2, 342
ACCESSIONS GUTINe the. yeagra ses a ee ee ee eee 1, 497
Total animals in collection Guring yearii===—---- + eee = 3, 839
Removal from collection by death, exchange, and return of animals on
CLE TOON Ite ee a oe a Pe ee ee eel ee 1, 085
Inveolleciion» Junecs0¥ 1938ee- 2s a ea eee eee — 2, 154

Status of collection

Class Species | Individuals Class Species | Individuals
WMammals!==2----sscon eee 239 699 |} Arachnids___.....-...-... 2
Tigo oes pee ee eee 367 JA264 7 ||PINSeCtSs sees ancestor sos 1 100
Repiess eee ae eS 134 43201 Mollusks! 2225.22 222252 1 6
Am phipians=s==ssess so 28 129

Mishes sooo es ae Se eee 21 117 Totals ete: te sees 793 2, 754
78 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938

ANIMALS IN THE NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL PARK, JUNE 30, 1938

MAMMALS
MARSUPIALIA
Didelphidae: Number
Didelphis virgintana_....-..-----~- OpOssHih SHUG oe =. hae ae 4
Metachirus opossum___.---------- Zorro or banana opossum_.._.-_-- 1
Dasyuridae:
Dasyurus viverrinus...-.-.---.--- Viverrine native cat. os... -5- 1
Sarcophilus ursinus...-..---2s-=- Tasmanian devils! oo so ee 2
Phalangeridae:
Pelauris Ureviceps.. 2.2228 sos Lesser flying phalanger_.._________ 3
Trichosurus vulpecula...=..+i+--- Vulpineoposstm . 92224 ee 1
Macropodidae:
Dendrolagus inustus..........---- Wiree RANGATOO. oo) bolo eee 2
Dendrolagus ursinus X D. inustus. Hybrid tree kangaroo__-...------ 1
INSECTIVORA
Hrinaceidae:
Atelerig hindét... dace. =~. East African hedgehog________--- 2
CARNIVORA
Felidae:
Acinonys- jubatus2.~2222252c2esee Cheetieccoscevsedsucrcavexcrtee 2
Felis concolor eto. 2 = Sears eee oo uma Ee a SOOT 2 be eee 5
Weine te0e 4d gee eee nee Soe Pan ere eee ce eee eee 6
Wetts ocremas f2— S22 12> eset African wild ‘cat. 0 so. S025. 1
‘ PP Ta pl Ue Eas ESP in RIBS Di De « 3
UAE IND a = eee ae JAC AT ee ee ee ee eee 2
Felis nardatis2) == iene % fu wn ese Ocelot: 20 82 Bakes eee 1
PEE DOTUInOMEe one ee ihessertiper*eat.- 22 2- e 1
: Teopard sf oe 2 ee eee 5
ee ae leppard. += = See eee 38
Felis pardus suahelicus._...------ East African leopard_.....-..---- 1
Felts tigris longi pilis.___-2 -_---__. Siberian tigers... 34 eee 2
Melts ores sondaicus. 2.22 "72s Sumiatran-tivers. 29223005 ee 4
Pyar baslevt = 22 ke eee ae Batley silynniie. .!) 22ers Tea, 1
Diyhiar, CANMCRD se: 8 eae se pas ee Caracal .20 id veh ies. ate fe 1
LD SL 5 a kN RREOR SERS oe pee eee bint ee ae eae 5
Neafelie neu wloras one SS SCt ses e Clouded leopard? 2-822 062 2 1
Projelasitemmincht.2-2 2-2 = ee Bay origolden*Gate 2 satin a2. 3
Viverridae:
Archicis binturong. 22. east Bintoreny. 2-2 oo oe ee 5
Ciwelisctts civelie_ 2 ee eee ee CIEL eee en ee eee 1
Genetia dongalana neumanni__.-_-- Neningmis peueb=: 255 1
Moschothera megaspila__.._..-_--- RAVEtl ec Si ee ee ee ee 2
Paradozurus hermaphrodytus . - ~_-- Small-toothed palm civet_._..---- 4
Hyaenidae:
Crocuta crocuta germinans__..----- Kast African spotted hyena_____-_- 1
Hygena brunnegs 220252222222. Brows lyens_ 2. 2 bev sta otoeee 2
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 79

Canidae: Number
CUNTSOINGO2 se eo ese oe ee Dingorc cence. eeose i So seek oee 2
- CWavobeias A) 6a pei Sa ey eso 16
Canis latrans_-_..--------------- | Aihinateoyoteizc wed siien 80. 3
Canis latrans X domestica._.----- Coyote and dog hybrid__-__.__._. 1
Canis lumus lycaon2 2522552 38 TPimberuyolfie a2 jee een ace 2
Canis lupus nubilus_.........--.- Wolk: sheiiets goncu od acts pehieta le 3
Canis lupus nubilus X domesticus... Wolf and dog hybrid_----______.-- 5
Canis: rifus S232 Sp ee BIS ‘TexaniredwOlte=- ne tage 3s 1
Chrysocyon jubatdic.t. noeed ol 28 Maned wolfe ch wae elegy ae Se a
Cuon javanicus sumatrensis_..--~- Sumatran wild dog... .iasic2 1
Urocyon cinereoargenteus____.----- GPG EOk ec ene shgs eat 1
LICR eg LOE Ee eRe se Red tom.) sheen ee oo 9
Procyonidae:
INawarimngrirgsse idecoes a eesk Gesy wcostimpndis «: S 2c Suse? 4
Pains jiaviad neg Bete nticetl pice penne ee ae ft penne 9 fal 2
Procyon cancrivorus_...---------- Crab-eating raccoon___.-------.- 1
peceonniens 220 yes. ee see 12
IPYUCUON TOLOFIS8Bs ow eceanwn Albino raceponsels ss. .usehieddsen 1
Black: vaccoonscesisn 4.) sets 5
Bassariscidae:
Bassartecus) astutus...o22e5 22252 Ring-tail or cacomistle..________. 1
Mustelidae:
Arconys collartes... 2 dese peels Hogahadgeric o seen. ane dee 2,
Charronia flavigula henricit_.___---- Asiatic marten._-__------_------ 1
Galictis barbara barbara____------- WW Wai tes rey yee aie lee ee in gl 2
Lutra canadensis vaga__..-------- Blorida otter. Atos ee ee 3
Mellivora capensis... 2-ii--=-=-+ Reateliass Sec eps ce he bh og ey il
Mephitis nigra: 2.22842 elie oe STL eee eae ee PaaS Se een ae en ee 12
Micraonyz leptonyz....----------- Small-clawed otter._..._...-.---- 1
Mustela eversmanni___----------- Berrots teeta’ sab ste tS 3
Mustela noveboracensis_...-------- Wiesnal sot! is et hi eee he 1
Mustela vison vison ..------------ Whig: Sigh pooles wet ete 1
Spilogale ambarvalis__._.--------- Florida spotted skunk__-__--_-__-_- 1
Ursidae:
Euarctos americanus.....-.------- American blatk-bear- 05. 2.32 5
Euarctos emmonsit___------------- Glacier bear. 2.2. 2 eae 1
Helarctos malayanus.__..--------- Moalayior sun, bearec soc). edn oS 1
Thalarctos maritimus___-.-------- Polar ears: 25 0 ta et a 2
Thalarctos maritimus X Ursus gyas. Hybrid bear__.._._-_._--------- 3
Urywusarttes os cAn dei Je 3 European brown bear__-_.------- 3
OE LL (1 Rae ae Ry oe OE a ES Alaska, Peninsula brown bear----- 4
Wrausbinderts eos). aes oe teat Kidder s bear 63 it ta pe 1
Ursusimiddendonpt.- == =5—2 a2 ee Kodiak pears 282 cas ye ee ee 4
Wreuwerhensge.. 222 e 58k oS Sitka brown bear_..-....-..----- 3
Ornilenlitiictanns’ S222 cot cio’ Himalayan bear... a2). 2-424.5-U 3
PINNIPEDIA
Otariidae:
Zalophus californianus.....------- California sea lion. _._.....---- 2
Phocidae:

Phocarnichanditsos oe ee eee Pacific harbor seal__________---_-_ 3
/

80 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938

PRIMATES
Lemuridae: Number
hemp. colts 2 eas ee Ring-tailed lemur_ 22222 es 2
Nycticebus coucang..----------.-- Blow lorie: occcs ose oe eee eee 5
Perodscticus-potiot 3 ses Sou see Potton eae 1
Perodiclicus spo. oe Sel Potten aoe. 2 SOI eS 1
Callitrichidae:
Leontocebus rosalia__.__....._.__- Lion-headed or golden marmoset__ 3
Maco argeniait 2.) 2.5502 28 eee Black-tailed marmoset_—----.--_-- 2
Mia eta: (nesta 2 ao ee White-lipped tamarin____________ 1
Saimiridae:
SAtMint SCHUM EUS 25 oo ON ee Titi or squirrel monkey________-_- 1
Cebidae:
Garajaowrubicundus. = 2-22-2528 Red ouakario: 2.2. 32 eee 1
Debris apellgs.. 22 eee se. See Brown. capuchin=.._.-_ S24. sae 1
Cebus CODUCUINUS 59 tee White-throated capuchin________- 5
Cebus.jatuclia. Use ae? att aee Se. Weeping.capuchin222. 5225 = 3
Cebisctb2 Soe eos ee Brown capuchin=.. 22. 2-22 lee ee 2
Cercopithecidae:
Cercocebus fuliginosus___--------- Sooty mangabey.c-. | .--- =~. 5
Cercopithecus aethiops roloway - - --- Rolowsy monkey-.=====> -senaere 1
Cercopithecus aethiops sabaeus - - - ~~ Green guenon.. 28 Ue) 2 eee 6
Cercopithecus albigularis_.-------- Sy ke’s guenons. 5. .>..=. Sees 2
Cercopithecus diana... == 22-22. Diana monkey... 52 22 tase 1
Cercopithecus neglectus_._._.-------- De-Brazza’s @uenon_2 4. . 22222 es 1
Cercopithecus petaurista____.------ Lesser white-nosed guenon___----- 2
Cercopithecus pygerythra__-------- Vervet guenonc2ise 22 Se 1
Colobus polycomos caudatus___----- White-tailed guereza_____------_- 1
Colobus polycomos polycomos- -- --- White-tailed colobus__..----.---- 1
Muacace fustalas. 222.05 5h Japanese monkey: 220-2222 eased 2
Matace lastotiss... 222s tS Chinese macaqueslces 22S ee 3
Macaca mMordat 2s. SS Javan macaquesle sss Se 13
Macaca-mulailas-22— 252-2 Rhesus monkey= 2 542.<4625_-S52822 10
Macaca nemestrina___...--.------ Pig-tailed. monkey 222) 222-2 2 ese 8
Iacaca Silenus se eee ee Wanderoo monkey-_-___----------- 2
Macacé sinteas 22S0 2222S. eek Bonnet monkey 2 £22202 22 2620225 1
Magus mauris. 2.2222 Lee 22 ees Moor monkey... /500 Ss eee 4
Mandrillus leucophaeus_---------- Drill.) Se Seas eee 1
Mandritlis sphingc a Ss Miandrill. 2... aU ee 3
Papia comets ee ae He CHaeiiat) A o8 G Sees eee eee 2
Papio papio cynocephalus__------- East African baboon__~.--------- iL
Papio papio papio SSeS West African baboon. ~~ --------- 1
Presbypite pyrrhiia= <= 232s Jee Javan langur or lotong.---------- if
Therapithecus geladas=.. 22,222 22+ Gélada baboon... 342 42S sees 1
Hylobatidae:
Heatobates agiiss. =. Ae et ee Sumatran gibbon. 3229-22222 SS 1
Hylobates lar pileatus__.---------- White-handed gibbon__-_--------- 3
Symphalangus syndactylus___------ Siamang cibbon. 2 =-<2a22-2 4-2 —— i
Pongidae:
RE Satria = sass oe ss soeee Chimpanzees. 55. sceee seca 2
OTONODON saree ee Sumatran orangutan__----------- 2

PONGO DUGMNOCUS en = sae = ee Bornean orangutan _------------- 1
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY

RODENTIA
Sciuridae: Number
Ammospermophilus harrisi_-_-—----- Harris antelope squirrel___-____-_-
Callosciurus melanops_-_--------- Sumatran tricolored squirrel_-___-
Catloscsurus: piceus<.< == =.=. Besutifuliaquirrel: .o. 5 22 528s:
Callospermophilus saturatus_-—-_---~- Mantled ground squirrel_____-___-
Citellus mexicanus parvidens-_-_----- Rio Grande ground squirrel______-
Cilellus richardsonit_.._..- 224244 Richardson ground squirrel-_--___-_
Citellus richardsonii elegans - ------ Pieket-pin:gopher. ~ . 4=<2622 5.35.
Cricliaisemiosoma.-- 2-26 eS _ Spotted ground squirrel__________
Citellus tridecemlineatus____------- Mise squirrel $<: 4. - ¢ylSetiew_ ee
Cynomys ludovictanus_.---------- Praine dog. alas seen. <a seee
Eutamias amoenus amoenus- - ----- Klamath chipmunk-_-..___.-..__--
Glaucomys volans= =. -...2.2s-.=<- Plyine squirrel 2 <2 3sae eee te
Marmota flaviventris__._.....------ Marmot or whistler___._____.___-

J Woodchuck or groundhog----___-

BEND I Ia \ Albino woodchuck or groundhog--

Ratufarbicolors = 5-2 oes cee Javan giant squirrel___.........-

Scrurusjnlaysont.20 -0OY. So Pe Lesser white squirrel_____________

Sciurus hoffmani subsp----------- Hofiman’s squirrels: 3 3 =a

Seruniemntoyeresaso 222 SURE SLES Ox ROUIETO  < e6 a Se kta

DOMLOSMISOLUS on Some see aes. Basternvehipmunk >...

Tamiasciurus hudsonicus__..------ ROGIRGUIBRER: S356

Tomeutes:motaius........2-2--.-.2- Javan brown squirrel_____-_____-
Geom yidae:

Thomomys douglasii yelmensis_ ____ Yelm pocket gopher__-_-_--_-_-__-
Heteromyidae:

Dinodoniys deserts ses Desert kangaroo rat__.._____-_--

Dipodomys merriami_-.---------- Merriam kangaroo rat____-_____-

Microdipodops pallidus. _________- Gnome or kangaroo mouse_-_-_-__-_-_-

Perognathus hispidus_....-------- Hispid pocket mouse__.__-_..__--

Perognathus longimembris______-_- Nevada pocket mouse___-_______--

Perognunus ParOUs=o loc 2) Great Basin pocket mouse__--__-_-

Perognathus penicilliatus__._.-_--_- Desert pocket mouse .._--_.-----
Jaculidae:

ICDLUS JOCULUE. See nee ee Egy pian Jerod... = = oe eet
Castoridae:

Castor canadensisso 2. eee Dea Veree ae oes ee eee
Cricetidae:

Neotoma floridana attwateri____-_-- Round-tailed wood rat____._.__--

Onychomys Spee ee ee ee Grasshopper mouse: =. 3-3 2

Peromyscus leucopus. 2_ = 22 White-footed mouse____________-

Sigmodon hispidus___....__-___-- Cotton rats 22 =~ 3 a ee

Zapus hudsoniiss =~ 2 Jimping mouses/2e 2 RYT
Rhizomyidae:

Nyctocleptes sumatrensis_-.------- Bamboo rates--- sees eee ee
Muridae:

Cricetomys gambianus__---------- Gambia pouched rat____._-_-_.--
Hystricidae:

Acanthion brachyurum___--------- Malay~porcupine. i222 = Sees s*

PAPReEUrtS MITICHnG. = 268A et West African brush-tailed porcu-

pine.
Hiyairin gaint) es ot ae le W East African porcupine_________-_-

Uhecuruasumarae... 2 22.2.2 o = Sumatran porcupine____-_-_---..

Ne NON OR RENN NTNRFP OODWKE OH Ne bw

mc 0 HH
82 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938

Erethizontidae: Number
Coendou prehensilis... .-.------=-- Prehensile-tailed porcupine---___- 1
Capromyidae:
Capromys pilorides__-..---------- Hutlecd:.... ketene sansa 8
Cuniculidae:
Cuniculus paca virgatus_.._------- Central American paca__________- 2
Dasyproctidae:
Dasyprocta croconota prymnolopha.._ Agouti_.......----------------- 2
Mayoprocia:ep.... TC cok ee era Tailed agoulls.2socstuiss See :
Caviidae:
Cavia porcellus s noo cISU Ee Domestic guinea pig___.___-_-_-_- 10
Dolichotis magellanica.._-..------ Patagoniancayy 25.40%.) seat 1
Pediolagus salinicola....-..------ Dwar cavysy 20 ceo ee 3
Hydrochoeridae:
Hydrochoerus hydrochoerus-_-.----- Capy barase. 2. dees a eee 1
LAGOMORPHA
Leporidae:
Lepus americanus. sac. o- eon Varying hare or snowshoe rabbit-_ 1
Oryctolagus cuniculus eee SN Z
ieee RO, Angora rabbitiz: .. =. =-2+ 22 ee
ARTIODACTYLA
Bovidae:
Ammotragus lervia.......-------- GIG oo ee Se ee il
Anoa depressicornis....-.--------- IOS 9 ee te 2 2
Antilope cervicapra......---------- Black buck or Indian antelope_.._. 1
TSS GOUT UG ns po aera oh ee GOI ee ia ee 2
PERO TU URONY = in css cE American bison... 32-04 24
ETP deg {i eae Oy ee Pee = ES na ee ene aT tet s' 2 5
TBOS CACO aos no a OU on 2 rea ce ey ee 4
Boselaphus tragocamelus_.-------- C1 7 alae ee hele eee peas Se ea a 1
Prrbalus Gunite x. too ht ee indian: bufialo. 524.025 4. 1
ri OIA CU se oe he Ee SIVCTIAN IDPS. se. 2 ee 1
Gonnochaties gnu... = .=-=2-2=2- White-tailed gnu... =2=--25-2.23 2
Connochaetes taurinus albojubatus._. White-bearded gnu_-_-_----~---- 2
Hemitragus jemlahicus....-------- AIRED sere cn es ea ee ee 5
Onotragus lecheé 2. 2-232 2.588 Lechee antelope. . 2. 2. = ose 1
Oryx beisa annectens.......---.--- Epean. Deiss Oryx. c= 24 ee 2
Cts CULODOCUG foo SS LE Mouton. 30 a. 258 oo eee 3
Poephagus grunniens__.---------- Win een oe oe See oe i 3
Pen. dOts NOUN = oe oa ee Bharal or blue sheep2.. === 2
SUNCETDS COP ON oa na oe eS Afriesn butfalo... 33s 24 2
EE EUT OLE OQ US OTIS ine: ts eet RIAN 2 Hoe cae 3
Antilocapridae:
Antilocapra americana._---------- Pronghorn antelope__---..------- 2
Cervidae:
EES MOB gs ah ea ak he AGHIMIGCRT oot ea ee 8
Cervus COMAGEIStSe ae ee ee Americanielke 2325.2. Soo 2
Géruus duvoucelhti2 fee Barasingha Geers. 22 ne = ae 3
Crore COURS esos eo Ie European red deer_.....-=->_=_ 4 = 14
Cervus TantIhODUGUSs == = ee IBedtoraudeer sas eae enn ee 2

Write G@er te ee eee 8

Damartama ns 3 =o h nae oo White tallow deer. s2e5-25-e ee 15
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 83

Cervidae—Continued. Number

Muntiacus muntjak__..---------- Barking or rib-faced deer_-___--_-_-_- 1
Muntiacus stnensis____ = .--- =~ Chinese rib-faced deer_.._____-___- 1
Odocoileus costaricensis__.------~-- Costa Rican deers. S222 2 Yee * 2
Odocoileus virginianus__..-------- Virpaniay Geer ss eee eee ee Noe: 3
ipa MOCUCCENSS= Sa - oscls 2 2 Moluccn deer. 22+ 2:2225s2224 52: 2
[ESET TSO UT 7 gene ge petals tales ae Maal paImuur deere 2 o= sion ks eco eee Sa 1
PERC DG. ah ee ewe ean cele Japanene MEeR: = 2 = 2 242 2) ee 8
Tragulidae:
Tragmius jovanseus. 2 5 > 225 Javan mouse deers. 2-2. .2222-25 1
Giraffidae:
Giraffa camelopardalis_____------- Nubbin pinaife == 2.2 4
Camelidae:
oma giarias = =e soe tae Erg 2 ye oo ae 7
twine Wwaandeus..-=— o> = e252 GUSBRbOS 2 2.2 25. 6228s ke ne eee 2
Tayassuidae:
Pecurs angulatus 2 <2 222k. Collared peccary_...------------ 2
Tavyaseu pecort-_ -- =: | asetece White-lipped peccary-____.-.--_-- 2
Suidae: ,
Parse Mynrus. oi hosse ett: Babitussa: UU escent saeteelod 3
Phacochoerus aethiopicus massaicus. East African warthog_----------- 3
Sus sceroja2. . . S= -_..- BARON European wild boar.......=2.=..- 1
Hippopotamidae:
Choeropsis liberiensis__....------- Pigmy hippopotamus___.__-____- 3
Hippopotamus amphibius- __------ Hippopotamus! fe ceron Soro 2e ck 1
PERISSODACTYLA
Equidae:
Buus TOU Poe 2 te ere Grevy’s gebrass. 00 oe eee 1
Equus grevyi-asinus_._----------- Zebra-ass hybrid 22 ..-2 2G eee 1
Equus grevyi-caballus__----------- Zebra-horse hybrid_....-......<. 1
PNUNG ONOGO SD. ects ene Asiatic wild ass or kiang___._____- 2
Equus przewalskit.- =<. <2202<5+ Mongolian wild horse..__-__--_-- 3
Equus quagga chapmani_-_-_------- Chapman’s zebra_........-~-.=- 10
Pus Se0Ta. 22 SSE ee we Mountain sobre... 22t beeen 2
Tapiridae:
ACTOCOGIO ANGLCR a see Asiatiotapine 2 eee ee 1
Taptrella b0trdtt soe wee PATER StS C= nk ae 1
Papers Perr esiree. os. otk te Brazilian tag 22 <2 520 oe eek te 1
Rhinocerotidae:
PCer Os ACO NE en ek eee Ss ae Blackinhinoceros= = == 22 — <> sees 1
PROBOSCIDEA
Elephantidae:
Elephas sumatranus-.-.------------ Sumatran elephant. ___.._-.._--- 1
Loxodonta africana oxyotis_._...._.. African elephant____-________-_-- 1
EDENTATA
Choloepodidae:
Choloepus didactylus__....-------- WO=bOGG BlObB. on no ee ee 3
Dasypodidae:
Dasypus novemcinctus_..--------- Nine-banded armadillo_.________- 1
Euphractus sexcinctus__...-------- Six-banded armadillo. __-________- 1
Myrmecophagidae:
Myrmecophaga jubata___--------- Gigut AMCALEr oso scs see soe 1

114728—39——7
84 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938

BIRDS
STRUTHIONIFORMES
Struthionidae:
Siruthto camelus. 222-3 seeks South African ostrich_________
RHEIFORMES
Rheidae:
Rhea americana... - aca awe Common rhea or nandu-_--_-_-_-_-
CASUARIIFORMES
Casuariidae:
Casuarius benneti.__...._.----.--- Bennett’s cassowary_-.______-
Casuarcus sp. (young) 2222 2_-2-—= CSESOWATY 2.22 ot eee ee
Casuarius unappendiculatus _-_ ----- Single-wattled cassowary ___-__-
Dromiceiidae:
Dromiceius novaehollandiae__------ Common emi... 25) eee
SPHENISCIFORMES
Spheniscidae:
Spheniscus demersus__------------ Jackass penguin____..._.-_.12
PELECANIFORMES
Pelecanidae:
Pelecanus californicus._..-------- California brown pelican _-_--__-
Pelecanus conspicillatus__...------ Australian pelican. --=2.-.==<
Pelecanus erythrorhynchos_-------- American white pelican____-__-
Pelecanus erythrorhynchos X P.

GECLACTLALION ON! = 2a ev enienie ew Hybrid pelicans .<622-3422=2"
Pelecanus occidentatis_ 2222 2— 5. 52 Brown pelicans 2222222. 2-222=
Pelecanus onocrotalus__.---------- Puropean-pelicanls "2200222222
Pelecanus TOseUs- ene eek Rose-colored pelican. _--..----

Sulidae:
IMOTUSURSSANNS eS oe ot ee Gannet= eerie. eae
ULE OTE Se oe eee ae On Blue-footed booby--------.---
Phalacrocoracidae:
Nannopterum harrisi.-.---------- Flightless cormorant. --_-------
Phalacrocorax auritus albociliatus.__ Farallon cormorant_----------
Phalacrocoraz auritus floridanus_.___ Florida cormorant------------
Anhingidae:
Anhinga anhinga 2222322 2242252- ANbingaci:.222cscsseoeenee =
Fregatidae:
PAPE QRLONCTiCbres aie 2 eS Seite ee ee Léesser'frigate bird 2.22-3232=-5
CICONIIFORMES
Ardeidae:
Ardea: herodiass 225 Se ee ee Great blue heron_..2_-)2-2 222
Ardea herodias X A. occidentalis... Hybrid heron.---------------
Ardeavocerdentalis... ==. 222-2625 Great white heron_.__-_-------
Casmerodius albus egretta___.----- American epret..o2 2225 2 =--=—
Nycticorax nycticorax naevius_.---- Black-crowned night heron- ---
Cochleariidae:
Cochlearius cochiearius___..__------ Bosthilitheronee asso sooo

Balaenicipitidae:

Baleeniceps Fee 222 a eo ee Shoebill'stork=< 2 ==5---2--2--

Number

— oe

non rte
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 85

Scopidae: Number
Scopus umbretia =.=. 3g esa Sa5 Hammerhead)... S22seceseeleS 1

Ciconiidae:
Dissoura episcopus._-------+2---- Woolly-necked stork._....-.----- 1
Ephippiorhynchus senegalensis. -- -- Saddle-billed stork...-__--.------ 1
Téa cineneuse = ee Se Malavastork 22:0 cleetbe ay 2
LeDUnie gay Cler il. 8 ee. Be Jape 2. 2b eae ee 2
Leptoptilus crumeniferus_.-------- Mara DOI Se 85 tu Sas eee 1
Leptoniilusdubiuess 2.22524. <- Indian adjutant. 2022.22. 1
Leptoptilus javanicus.------------ Lesser adjutant2<<.- 2244.2 ee 2
Mycteria americana. 22 -=--=--+ = Wood tbise ass 24. aoe See i

Threskiornithidae:
WAsdearaTIOe Sse ao TORE Roseate spoonbill__..........---- |
GROIGlUG aa ee White ibistsoho eis Soe es 3
Guara alba X Gorubra._ 22222225 Bybridibisses..... ee ee 1
Gaara riba. hn 2 see Ses oe Scapletiabise = oheeees! .- eee 2
Threskiornis aethiopica_..-------- pacredibiss 2se-4 Se 2
Threskiornis melanocephala__.._--- Black-headed ibis=-2222-252 2-2-2 |

Phoenicopteridae:
Phoenicopterus chilensis_..-------- Chileanflamingo: Ese ee 8

ANSERIFORMES

Anatidae:
Ae spond 22 <= eet os epee Wood duck =)... Heesecegqet 13
Alopochen aegyptiacus_.---------- Eeyptian: go0ses2. 2.2 seer oes 2
Anusdomesiven= 205... ste ee J5ed Peking duck. 4c) ao seeeied 15
Ands platyrhynchoss s= Ss222225 022 Maillard: 2! 5. o Se poet anda 26
ARMAS TUT DES er ee Black or dusky mallard__._.___-- 1
ATUL SH ULIUOALL OL see ee oe African yellow-billed duck______-_- 8
Ameer aloifronaseo! se Sans American white-fronted goose_- --- 3
Amiser savage so< = Sess 2 te Bean: o00ses25=- Sa eee 2
EXO TOMOETILUC LC =e ee Brantes 2.2. Joe ss ee 3
Brantaicanadensis=.- == eee eee Canada o00se 252 she eet 9
Branta canadensis hutchinsii___---- Hutehin’s goose... = 42 eeeees es 8 4
Branta canadensis minima_-_-_----- Cackling: fo0sé.dies Sor cen ss ee 4
Branta canadensis occidentalis_-_-_-- White-cheeked goose__..-_-.------ 18
Branta leucopsis= =: ss2kees to 25252 Barnacle goose: aueseu. so2eee 1
Catvrinaimoschalas 22-282 Muscovyduckee ss 222) eee 3
Chsarcawarreyatas 2c. 4 SAN Parediseiduck 20220. 22S eee 1
Cereopsis novaechollandiae____------ Cereopsis or Cape Barren goose... 1
Chen atlantica... 222 eas Snow go0se....c2ioort Sie uf
Chenvcaerulescené =< 8 esse we Se Blue 200seSsseasesas520 5 eee 9
Chloephaga leucoptera____--------- Magellan: coose:.. 225-2029! Be 1
Cygnopsis cygnoides. L222 4.22 224 Chinese gooses-c5c2. eee 2
Cygnus columbianus2s- 22022. S22 Whistling swante. a ..2.t oe eye 3
OFM EEL OL ON so se nes Rs Mute swalt. 22-5225 522 eee 1
Dahle acuta... Soo UIs -e Aes Pintaitl duck. .3—.12 Se Bt 6
Dalatvahamensis.. beet. Sas Bahaman pintail 92295 ete ee 1
Daflaacuia Ko Do spl eeae 220s 2 Pinta hybrid. 252. ce Seet eee. 1
Dendrocygna arborea_.__-.-------- Black-billed ducke gre. 3242 22252. 4
Dendrocygna autumnalis._..------ Black-bellied tree duck_______-_-- 4
Dendrocygna viduata___._-_------- White-faced tree duck________-_~- 1
Mareca americana S222 08 Sooke Baldipate us s+. See Fel ee 3

Narocacoularis..-- sss BUS Me Ritig-neck ducksuesiesetu_22tess 1
86 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938

Anatidae—Continued. Number
Philacte canagicde 2 ee eee Emperor. goose... -2 2 Mee Se 11
Plectropterus gambensis__--------- Spur-winged goose_____-_____---- 2
Querquedula cyanoptera___-------- Cinnanion teal.22. 9220 beet 1
Querquedula discorsgs Shee Blue-winged teal__......-.------ 1
Sarkidiornis melanota___---------- Comb duck... 1

FALCONIFORMES

Cathartidae:

Cathartesaurd 2-2 =) ees ae Turkey vultures) 5225522 3

Cathartes aura X Coragyps atratus. Black Carolina and turkey vulture 1
hybrid.

Coraguns atratis_— 1 ee ete Black’ vulture. = 20 2 ee aes 1

Gymnogyps californianus_..__----- California condor.:.....8<2e224 3

Valuroryupnus: =- 2 2. at ees South American condor. -_._____-_- 1

Accipitridae:

Aegypius monachus_-.----------- Ginereous vulture] 2 ee 1
Aquila. chrysaetos. 20:2) L epee tictents Golden eagles tec ecte ee 2
Peg Uanenhite 06) 4A ie ee Red-tailed hawk._.._....-_----- 3
ideo daneatis. 2.x at een Red-shouldered hawk.--_-------_-
Buteo platypterus......-- 222. 2. Broad-winged hawk....-_-.-_---
Bateo swainsont.. =. .2-=. = 22s Swainson’s hawk...-...s2.-2.-0252
Gypaetus barbatus grandis._.___--- Lammergeyer......-...-......_ es
Gaps xuenpellt so A I Ruppell’s vulture... 222002 32
Haliastur. indus. 72204 fuss Malay brahminy kite____.____-_- 3
Haliaeetus leucocephalus_-_._----- Bald é€agles. 1... J Pa ee 20
Maloussmigranss_ sto ee Yellow-billed kite_.........-___.. 1
Pandion haliaetus carolinensis_____- Osprey or fish hawk.-._-_-_----- 2
Stephanoaetus coronatus_____------ Crowned hawk eagle____-_-_----- 1
Tergos trachehiotuss ia oo6 S22 eo African eared-vulture__-..-_____- 1
Usoarius audaze 2. Wedge-tailed eagle......_.._-_.-- 1

Falconidae:

Ralco.columbariue.- oe ene Pigeon whawk..-..22262 Se 1

haleo snarcertus)..J2228k. ss ogee Sparrow hawks. 22S DAS 3

Polihierax semitorquatus___._.---- African pigmy falcon_...._-__---- 1

Polyborus) Chenavas ee eee Audubon’s ‘carsearass 229 2 2

Poalyborus plancus..- 2235.2 222 = South American caracara____-_-_- 1
GALLIFORMES

Megapodiidae:

Megapodius freycineti__._._-_----- Molucca megapode---_-_--------- 2

Cracidae:

Craz tubra__. 2 bene alae Panama. curassoweesitet secissee 1
Matu mitun 30. 22 - asa ae eA Razor-billed curassow-__--------- 1
Mats saloint. jc - 22 nape git ioe Salvin’s curassowessc3 tes 1

Phasianidae:

Alectoris graeca 2... = Wie eet Chukar partridge-_..... s4u=5 g25e" 2
A QUStONUS OT GUS eats eee Arcus pheasant. +s) -s2e8 24552 2
Oatreus wallichti.. .. = Shute {hele Cheer pheasante< oi. 3c sfzes StS ae 1
Chrysolophus amherstiae..-..----- Lady Amherst’s pheasant__.-.---- 1
Chrysolophus ambherstiae X Syr-

matious. reevést: S20 bs) hie Hybrid pheasant2.-2s-c2cseensss 1
Chrysolophus pictus.....--------- Golden pheasant...-.----------- 4

Colinus virginianus._---..._------- Bobwhites..2.._.=. -22 ste e2es4
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 87

Phasianidae—Continued. Number
Coturnta coturnizs = 2-2. )2_22202.. Migratory quail... 2-2 2020 Je 26
Coturnié japonica s+ 2. U2. 22h. = Asiatic migratory quail_____------ 1
Crossoptilon mantchuricum-------- Manchurian pheasant___--------- 1
Excalfactoria chinensis___--------- Blue-breasted button quail_-_----- 8
Gollus-qallué=-=-- e202 SS et Jingle fowl: = 2.0222 seese 3
Gallus gallus X Numida galeata_... Chicken X guinea fowl hybrid_---. 2
Gennacus lancatus.. 2222522552 2* ihineated pheasant. 2222-2222 22— 3
Gennaeus nycthemerus_-.---------- DBUVeL DUCHHAN he 5 2. sock eee 2
Hierophasis swinhoet__----------- Swinhoe’s pheasant-_------------- 1
Lophophorus impeyanus-_--------- Himalayan Impeyan pheasant___. 2
EOD GtAGdt 5-32 on ae Siamese crested fire-back pheasant. 1
Dai rroriy SEAT ose A Malayan fire-back pheasant_-__----~ 1
IPUVONCHISLOLUS Se ee ee eee ee BE Men We eo Se ke ee 5
PeUOITEC ia 2 <0 See ee DE ee Green MeaiGwL ee 2

: Ring-necked pheasant__.--------- 2
ee eg eee ring-necked pheasant- - - - -- 2
Phasianus torquatus formosanus_..._ Formosan ring-necked pheasant_-. 1
Phastanus versteolor_ 2-2-2. (Green pheasants. ooo sono neon 4
purmaticus Terevet_ 4-2 Reeve's PHEABANT. 2425-2 2-2 2

GRUIFORMES
Gruidae:
Anthropoides virgo....----------- Demoiselle-cranes_. 42 2) eee 2
Antigone australasiana____-------- AtistralianiGrane = coe eet ee eee il
Balearica pavonina___------------ West African crowned crane------ 1
Balearica regulorum gibbericeps._._._. East African crowned crane------- 1
Grus canadensis canadensis_-_-_----- Little brown.craneé.26 2222528 Le 1
Grus canadensis tabida____-------- Sandhill cranesn2ecik S3scu steel 1
Gruseucmuchet ee. UL TeCue eet White-naped crane-_._---------- 1
Grus leucogeranus........-------- Siberian.crane 222s ase ee een 2

Psophiidae:

Psopina.crepuane.: svlsh oo eee Gray-backed trumpeter---------- 1

Rallidae:

Gallinula chloropus cachinnans__---- Florida, gallinglewqure clades 2
Gallinula chloropus sub. sp-------- Sumatran gallinule.2.0sstL sebsek 3
Limnocorax flavirostra_-_--------- Africansblacktrailieee see 8 eee 3
Porphyrto: melanotus—. 02... 2...- New Zealand mud hen_-_-_-------- 1
Porphyrio poliocephalus_..__...--. Gray-headed porphyrio_---------- 2
HULLS Ds see eee eee ene Sumatra ral 22 so. oe See 3

Eurypygidae:

Hurynyga heltas 26 T0522 54 ohh 3 Sun bitter... - seit peek 2

Otididae:

One cara. ease a ESE Denham’s bustard__.------------ 1
Otis caffra jacksont.2-.=222-2~25-- Jackson's bustardi22335 feces. 1
CHARADRIIFORMES

Haematopodidae:

Haematopus ostralegus._.--------- European oyster catcher__..------ 2

Charadriidae:

Belonopterus cayennensis__.------- South American lapwing---_------ 1
Sarciophorus tectus.....---------- Black-headed plover__----------- 1
Scolopacidae:

Philomachus pugnaz__------------ CE aa ht eS 1
88

ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938

Laridae: Number
arus argentatis..- 3-2 =e kee Herring gull... 222s oe 1
Gorus delawarensts=.- 25a Ring-billed gull «322. 2322232" 2
arus glaucescens =o <a ee Glaucous-winged gull____-_--_-_- il
Larus novaehollandiae_-_.--------- Silver. qull232 2-22 oe eee 65
Larus occewdentas-2--- 222 see Western gull... .- =e. 1
Lorusmdbundus 2. t ee. Se cee Huropesn .gull..~22* 4 oot 1

COLUMBIFORMES

Pteroclidae:

Pierocles onientais: <2. oe Oriental sandgrouse___.------.--- 2

Columbidae:

Caloenas nicobartca.-—..- ---- 222 Nicobar pigeon... ..-=—2-----22--= 5
Chalcophaps tndica_-- == -- === Mmerald dovel.- ==.2=s--c2-52-22 4
Columba fulviventrts.._.2=.----=5= MorestidoveG-2=<=524-22-525. 5 se" 1
Columba teuconota.._ 2 == =.= Tibetan pigeon. =2--5=552.2=see— 2
Columba, palumbus.:---==22--=225 Wood spigeonss.04 240 o> Oe 1
Columba livia (domestic) ---------- Archangel pigeon... 2-3: 2
Columba livia (domestic) ---------- Fan-tailed pigeon_..._-..--------- 5
Dendrophassa vernans_-_---------- Sumatran fruit pigeon____-------- 4
PD CuIGgentas. 5 Soe oo os eee Green imperial pigeon__._-------- 4
Ducula pinoene. . 2=--222-=.822e8 Red-eyed fruit pigeon__---------- 4
Gallicolumba luzonica___---------- Bleeding heart dove___---------- 10
Goura Sclalerit. ans AI att Sclater’s crowned pigeon--------- 5
Goura VicioriG = 522 ee. BoE ee Victoria crowned pigeon__-------- 5
Lamprotreron jambu_..----------- Pink-headed fruit pigeon__------- 8
Leptotila rujactla= 2. <= Sh bt Sealed pigeonis.euesi2te. seco 2
Macropygra unchalles sees seek Cuckoo dovesce s+ siden oe 11
Muscadivores paulina__..--------- Celebian imperial pigeon --------- 4
Myristicivora bicolor___.---.------ Pied imperial pigeon_-_----------- 5
Phlnopua hy menais see ee Purple-shouldered fruit dove_-_---- 2
Pin opus SCG = s- seo ooo Purple-capped fruit dove__------- 5
Streptopelia chinensis___---------- Asiatic collared dove__.---------- 28
Sireplopelim@ Ts0rta_-=2 == 22222 ee Ring-necked dove_-_------------- 7
Streptopelia senegalensis____.------ East African ring-necked dove__.. 1
TOU U SOT US 2 wee eae ees 8 eee Turtle dovene2 22225342 She 1
Zenaidura macroura macroura..--- West Indian dovesis2. 2242252222 1
PSITTACIFORMES
Psittacidae:
Agapornis handel ss 5-0 Nyassa lovebirdl: ......- eee 1
Amazona. albtfrons.....222- 20 222- White-fronted parrot___...------ 3
Amazona amazonica...-.--=..--.~ Orange-winged parrot___-.------- 2
Amazona arausiaca_....-----.--- Bouquet's parrotl.2.-.- ee 1
Amazona auropalliata____-.------ Yellow-naped parrot___.--------- 10
Amazongd bodini so. 2 oe sees ee Red-fronted parrot_.------------- 1
AMAZONAW CSOs 2 Soe See ee Héstive parrot-~ 2.2 .Lt eee 1
Amazona leucocephala___-_-------- Cuban" parrot? «2222022222 eee 2
Amazona ochrocephala___--------- Yellow-headed parrot___--------- 9
Amazona ochroptera_._.----------- Yellow-shouldered parrot-_-------- 3
Amacona oratrict = e220 Eee Double yellow-head parrot---_----- 6
Amazona viridigenalis___..._----- Red-crowned parrot__----------- 1
Anodorhynchus hyacinthinus.._.___. Hyacinthine macaw__-.---------- 1
Aprosmictus amboinensis_...------ Amboina lorry Son So os-- ee 1
ATG GTA GURnG ses ooo. coe ees Yellow and blue macaw. -_-------- 3
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 89

Psittacidae—Continued. Number
Ara ChlorOpierG= 2-28. Soe seen Red and yellow macaw_._-______- 1
ATG, MGCUO ss. SO Red, yellow, and blue macaw____ 3
Are MearacanGue Le 2 oA Sa Miiger's macaweue-.02t 222038 ee 2
Ara. milttaria._.-====-2 202222712 Mexican green macaw-_-..-------. 3
ATG SOUCG == 22s 25522200- 2S Severe MACAaWaoc<e- seas 52 sete u|
Aratinga solstitialis.__.-.-------- ellow parodiieta-s2se 222522 = eee 1
Brotogerss jugularis.....------.--— OVI DBrOQMet == =... 5 oases eo 2
Calyptorhynchus magnificus -- ~~~ -- Banksian cockatoo..........-.2-- 1
Coraconsisinigni se ee ae juesser vasa parrot... _— 3-2 e ee 1
Cyanopsittacus. $pittc. =.= <=. 2 5-=- SiS SIURCR Wiss aaas oe eee 2
Domicella garrula garrula__.------ Rede ony ee ee ae eee ereee 11
PIGLECUNS POCOT ONS. =o a a Piclectns parroh:-- 55.250 oe 2
Eolophus roseicapillus__---------- Roseate cockatoo.. =< 2--=---22= 2
ge cyanegenia= —... 2 5--- 2 he Biue-eared lory.-. = so a4<525. os 1
BES A i Ree ee ae a a BGG) LOWY oe ee eee oe 1
ELD STL OO UTC ee ee Golden-crowned paroquet-_-__-___- 1
Eupsittula canicularis-_—---------- =) betzparoguetses-—5 ee sean. eee 1
MNT ICEEL OOM Nhs ae atic es White-crested cockatoo_.....-_-_- 3
Kakatoe citrinocristata_____.-.---- Orange-crested cockatoo_______.__ 1
Wakatoe galertta x0 oop ok os = Sulphur-crested cockatoo_-_-__-__-_- 4
Kakatoe leadbeaterit__.._---------- Leadbeater’s cockatoo__.___.._--- 2
Kakatoe moluccensis___----------- Great red-crested cockatoo_-_-__-__- 2
Kakatoe sulphurea...-.--.-..-~-=< Lesser sulphur-crested cockatoo__. 11
Kakatoe tenutrostris.......~----.- Slender-billed cockatoo_______--_-_- 1
Leptolophus novaehollandicus - - - .-- @Cockatielis. o6.0 55 oo. aos ee ee 2
Lortculus gaigulus .==.-==2=-=-===.2 Hanging parrotiet....2- 2-22 22+. 2 2
Lorsus domecen@. 322-2 ae CIE oi (9) a ae ne ees ee 2
OVUUS (UOT) ee et ae re ee, Blue-crowned lory...----...----- 1
Melopsittacus undulatus_____------ Grass parogueteiws. 24 cec tn ee 17
Microglossus aterrimus___--------- Great black cockatoo_----------- 1
Myopsitta monachus__.----------- Quaker paroquet.<< 4) -<2-.2eu28 il
Nandayus nanday_.-.------------ Nanday paroquet.ces-- 4240225 il
Wester Notabil tea) ao oes oe hs TCR ie oe, RN ena ee 4
Pionites zxanthomera_.__.....----- Amazonian calque_—_-_--- 2522-55 7.
Pionus menstruuse. 228 ot Blue-headed parrot_...---___-_-_- 1
Josulacuia eungiig.. 2252225 —---— Red-shouldered paroquet--_-__-_--_- 5
Petiacila kramert_.........8222.2 Kramer's paroquet= 2.222.225.4222 6
Psiitacula longicauda.......=---=- Long-tailed paroquet__---------_- 3
Psittacula nepalensis__..--------- Nepalese paroquet_._.--------_-_- 1
Paitiacus ersthacus.....2-.-2...-=- Africanipray; palrotess- 252] e ee 2
Tanygnathus megalorhynchus - - ---- Great-billed parrot. .-..2222-2222 1
Tanygnathus muelleri_.._--------- Mueller parrot... 22222 32sse22055 1
Trichoglossus cyanogrammus__----- Green-naped lory_._------------- 1
Trichoglossus haematod_-_-~-------- Cerant Jory. 2. eee ees 4
Trichoglossus nigrogularis___------ Blue-fronted Jory. 2222242242583 3
Trichoglossus novaehallandiae- ----- Blue-bellied lory._.........-.---- 1

CUCULIFORMES

Cuculidae:

Centfopus sinensis. ....—~- <<—2+-32 Sumatran coucal. 2-45 - ees 1

Eudynamis scolopaceus_-.--.----- WGC Smee Ee ee RS eee 2
90 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938

STRIGIFORMES
Strigidae:
Bubo.wirgintants.s225- sacle 2. tot Great horned owl__._-_-------
Ketupa ketupu- nos 42452 eet Malay fishing owl_._---------
Otis castes Sead ae ba ee an Be eCreeen Gyre 22-22 ee
Sire varéa. 2205 32. ose aee ote 22e Barred owl_ 2522222 ae
CAPRIMULGIFORMES
Caprimulgidae:
Chordetles MUnor 22 oe os NIGBURS WK. 28 oe
Podargidae:
Podargus strigotdes. 2 2. ane Tawny frogmouth__._--------
CORACIIFORMES
Alcedinidae:
DD acelorgig asta as 2s ee ee Koo Ka btn nies see oes
Halcyon pyrrhopygius_..--------- Red-backed kingfisher____--_-_-
TAaIEVON GONCS 2 See De 2 oa Sacred kingfisher. .._-.-..----
Momotidae:
Momotus momotus parensis__-_----- Motenets 22> ot 5ee os eee
Bucerotidae:
Berenicornis comatus_—...---.--.- Long-crested hornbill___------
ISUCCTROSIENULOCCNOS ae eee ee Rhinoceros hornbill__---------
SUCOTUUSIQUYSSINICUS= = =e ene Abyssinian ground hornbill- - ~~
Dichgeeros Picornis. .. an Concave casque hornbill___----
Fiydroctsrt conven. = a Pied rormbiles =. See Sosa
FUR ULECET. OS) DUCOLUS nee ee Plies tedthormbills-—sasssese—=
PICIFORMES
Ramphastidae:
Pteroglessus bitorquatus_---------- Two-banded aracari-_---------
Ramphastos ariel. 22202 298M shots Aricl togsan-(SUCC (UD Ae tegys
Ramphastos culminatus___.-.----- White-breasted toucan-_-------
Ramphastos tates.) 22 5204 Teo as Toco-touean s-<<.20 St SP yas
Weleniden® Culthant 2.20528 = 9 TSS Guiana toucanette__.-.-------
Capitonidae:
Thereiceryz zeylandicus__.__-------- Streaked barbet==+_----2--=4-
PASSERIFORMES
Oriolidae:
Orinlas chinensis.2 as Seba se Sumatran, oriolezses ase 25522
Cotingidae:
Chasmorhynchus nudicollis____---- Naked-throated bell-bird_.-_-_--
Rugucola.cumicola. 402 est SSL Cock. of the.roeko best Haare
Pittidae:
Pitta. brachyura! .- . 5 ini esses Indian pitta esses eee
Pitta moluseensis. 235) Pe ses Eels Moluces. pitta. 2o5 4. ewes
Tyrannidae:
Pitangus sulphuratus.._._.....-.~-. Kiskadee flycatcher___--------
Corvidae:

Aphelocoma californica woodhousei__ Woodhouse’s jay_------------
Calocitia formosa: --0 2502 2 eee. Mexican magpie jay_---------
Case: chinenste <2 22-55535- 22°08 Chinese cissa_ 2 S22 0+ oo

Senn N NS

=
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 91

Corvidae—Continued. Number
Cornus albus. 222922 Peon gue White-breasted crow__..--...___- 2
Corvus brachyrhynchos_-_---------- AMIGriCAn COW... .c2o2522 054 Shot 3
Corvus corax sinuatus__.--..------ American-raven: 4222 00) op! 1
Corvus eoronotdes! 2) 20 Sop sk Australian crow. | SO Sie ty ey! 2
Corvus cryptoleucus___..---------- White-necked raven_____..______ 6
Cordis insolenes s==222bi2 RIveeZ Indian crow 4222-220) P24 FU) 4
Cyanoctita cristata sos 22-222 2s eb2 Blaewayse: ==. Sale es Ae 2
Cyanocorax cyanopogon.---------- White-naped jay es 2222 Swowesoes 2
Gymnorhina hypoleuca__---------- White-backed piping crow________ 3
Pia nutiany 22 oes eek stake Yellow-billed magpie_____________ 3
Piew piem hindsontas 8 o2) Paes American: magpies_“- 22 20. 9225) | 6
Uroctasa-occi pitalia£ 2 52)04 SOc LJ Red-billed blue magpie___________ 2
Xanthoura luxuosa guatemalensis__. Guatemalan green jay___.-_______ 1

Paradiseidae:

Manneodia atfanc2cssI2n80n2 22222 Bisew mianucddes — Nes Tass} 1
Tannese MING s <n eee BS Lesser bird of paradise_....______- 2
Paradista Tubra oo 2 2s Aa ee Red bird of paradise. 2... 220252 10
Sehlegelia wilsonts2o 2 222222. Wilson’s bird of paradise________- 1
peleuewdes wiger= = 5... 2) 20 22 LU2 12-wired bird of paradise_________ 3

Ptilonorhynchidae:

Ptilonorhynchus violaceus_-_-_------ Satin bower bird. 222220. L222. 4

Timaliidae:

Pomatorhinus erythrogenys tmberbis_ Salvadori’s scimitar-babbler_______ 1

Pycnonotidae:

Molpastes haemorrhous----------- Black-headed bulbul____________- 1
Olocompsa jocosiis lf Lee aS Red-eared bulbuli 2220s 2284s 1
Pyenonohiv analtss. 222 eo Ie ire Yellow-vented bulbul____.___.___ 2
Pycnonotus bindentatus___._-_- ~~~ Orange-spotted bulbul__________- 3
Rubtgula dispar 2220. Seo 2 Red-throated bulbul__-..._______ 3
Trachycomus zeylonicus__..------- Yellow-crowned bulbul___________ 4

Trenidae:

BERD PUCNG 22 sa DPN ES Fairy: blue bird. P22 oe sae 1

Turdidae:

Mesig argenturis. oo oe Silver-eared mesia__.._.._.....___ 2
Mimocichla rubripes.__....-.----- Western red-legged thrush________ 4
Pardue grayish ty Pog allen Bonaparte’s thrush oo 12) 52 ee 1
Turdus migratoride 21 sot eb lee Babiltis sos soes) BOS ee eee 1

Laniidae:

Lanves dorsalte 2 Les een Teita, fisceal-shrike= Wit lo Soon 2

Sturnidae:

Aplonis-chalybea==22 220 201A Yeni t Glossy aplonis..2 32322 Fa yene 2
Cosmopsaris regius_..=-22-.01022_ Splendid starling___..._..._____- 3
Greatophera cinerea ll U0. SI tee. Wattled starling..........-....._- 2
Galeopsar salvadorii__---.-------- Crested-starling... 220% S22 AOS 1
Gracula Gavan. SEO et JaVaAT may nal. eres Me Bele Nis 4
Gracula palawanensis____.---_---- Palawan mynah <2. 22 Sees 2
Gracula religtosa_ 22S 2 Southern hill mynah_____________ 2
Gracupica melanoptera___--------- Gray starlings: 22.2 Vote * 4

Lamprocolius sycobius_...-------- Southern glossy starling..__.____- 1
92 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938

Coerebidae: Number
Cyanerpes cyaneuss- bt 223 eee Blue honey creeper-------------- 1
Icteridae:
AQEUILUS GSSUNIS oa ee Cuban red-winged blackbird -_----- 5
Agelaius icterocephalus__---------- Yellow-headed marsh bird_---_---- 1
Gymnomystax mexicanus_--------- Giant orloles 22 2565 e 2 2
Tcterus guraudt. 2-2. ees Giraud’s oriole... 2 ee ee 1
Molotirus@ter 2-2-2 ee ee Cowbirde...... —- 2 3 a 1
Psomocolaz oryxivora._.----------- Rice erackles2.22 55525 Gee eee 1
Xanthocephalus xanthocephalus_---- Yellow-headed blackbird_-_-_---- 4
Thraupidae:
Piranga erythromelas___---------- Scarlet tanager..< 2242.5. 22-245 1
IS DETOOLIS DTC OU = cee S ok SE ge Cuban spindalis. 2-2 +. . ee 1
Tanagra tutercapillas.= -- =~ 222-3 Yellow-crowned euphonia_-_-_------ 1
RnB tSVCanG =< 225 esse ee ee Blue tanager....=.225. 2.353% 2
Thraupis palmarum melanoptera_-._ Palm tanager_------------------ 1
Ploceiidae:
Amadina fasctata._..-- + --i4---4 Cut-throat fineh. 242 --= at 1
Colmisnassemojdens =a ae Red-necked whydah_________-_-- 3
Diaivopira procie.-t- 7 oa 2S Giantiwhydah. =). 2.32.55 5 39 6
iMunta Maia 2.22.2 2352S White-headed munia____--_------- 30
Miunta moliceg-) we 3 e tai 8 Black-throated munia___---_----_- 15
Mae : J White Java sparrow--_----------- 2
UNIO GY Awol oe ee lie 12
PAITOW ene hee a es
Mama puneniiatus:— 2-22 Ries birds. 5.225256 = ee 5
locos: bay 4 S55 32 $48 oak tees IBS Va WeAVel 2 == 45 5
Ploceus sntermedius= 5-4 32254 eS Black-cheeked weaver_____------- 15
Ploceus rubigimosusi£ R822 22 Chestnut-breasted weaver ---_----- 8
Poephilasacuvicaudgen == =. eee ee one-tailed finches] = 52 13
ieoephilagouldiaes == Gouldian finch - 3.28 oe eee 5
Quelea sanguintrostris intermedia... Southern masked weaver finch___. 1
Steganopleura bichenovit._.------- Banded dineh\. 2. ese ee 6
Steganura paradisea______-------- Paradisecwhydah2a->. ee 7
Taeniopygia castanotis______------ Zebra finch: 3-25 435.2 eee 2
Fringillidae:
Amandava amandava__------------ Strawberry fineh.3-22 3544255 75
Carduelasicardnelis ss hs European-cold'fineh— 12-2254" 1
ETT G DROStnGs 22 2c Sgt Pes Long-tailed munia.=.+..5-. = he22 2
Fringilla montifringilla___-------- Brambling fineh.... 2.52225 22228 1
Metonyrrha nor @_ 226-154 Cuban bullfinch= =.= 2-22-26 Sa 1
Poroarta cucullata. 25 oe Red-crested or Brazilian cardinal__ 2
Pheuctious tibialis: = 3 8 Yellow grosbeak. 225. 57.22 $5025 1
SEPeN US CORATTUS 22 SER et et ees Canary 2 22) hoo 5 ee 4
SHCELTS *MINOF ae ys Ste ee Aa aE Lesser yellow finch____-__------- 1
SPoropnela Curia. — otto Ee Hick’s seed-eaters = 22222 22s-o-8 4
Sporophila gutturalis......_------ Yellow-bellied seed-eater____-_-_-- 3
POPES COROT So 2 2 st pipet 3 as 55h MO: Melodius prassquit= oo. =e 3
TOMI CRIN D 2 2 9g et eS Society finch 2 - ==. 5225-4) bee 2
Volatinta jacarint cee eel Sok Blue-black grassquit._....-----.- 1
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 93

REPTILES
LORICATA
Crocodylidae: Number
Alligator mississipiensis__..------ 722 0) ee ee ee 36
Alligator stnensisecos. > 2. 225222 Chinese-allipators 222 222222 te 3
Cusmanwclerongs 255 62a Opiates Sno ok 8 8 ots as 3
Cracodulus aeulie-o. 22252. 228352 American crocodile: |. -22..-222.2 1
Crocodylus cataphractus__--------- West African crocodile___-______- 1
Crocodylus:porosus=o222 2222 2.5424 Salt-water crocodile_._.____________ 1
Osteolaemus tetraspis._.---------- Broad-nosed crocodile.___________ 1
Tomistoma schlegeli___.---------- Malayan: pawvialitzstso5 ode tet 7
SQUAMATA
Lacertidae:
PMICEVTE MUUT OLS 28 Be Wall digard. A ee 1
Agamidae:
Acanthosaura armata___---------- Armed tree lizard 5. _- 2 <> 4 = 2
Physignathus cocincinus.--------- Siamese water dragon____________ 2
Physignathus lesueurtt___.-------- Lesueur’s water dragon__________- 1
Iguanidae:
Anolis carolinensis. =. =~ 5 Balse chameleone.2 = 2-52 3-24 o.. =— 12
AMO SVEQUESITISE 22> 5 see oe Giontanolisis 3.5 ee ee 8
LAROLS DOTEOLN Ge oe ho Cuban: anolis=< 6.1 4 sete 2
Conolophus subcristatus___-------- Galapagos ipusns. 220. 3 ee 1
Cyclura cormidajee a 325 Se Rhinoceros iguana... =. ee 1
TEEN | ee ee ee eek ipuana. 62). oo ee 1
Leiocephalus cubensis___.--------- Cuban curl-tailed lizard_________- 4
Phrynosoma cornutum_----------- Horned lizard: «2d e.5 8 el oe 6
Phrynosoma platyrhinos__--------- Horneddizard=23 = 22-2 ss oe 3
MEeCLOpOT Us Magisters - 2 ik Western spiny lizard...+.22. =. —2- 1
peeloporus torqudius.— 2-2: Sealy ligard= = 2 = 56a es oe 4
Sceloporus undulatus. .----------- Penge: Mizar 8 oe 3
Anguidae:
Opniseurus Opus... to ek European glass snake_._-_-_----_- 1
Gerrhosauridae:
Gerrhosaurus validus__-..-------- Robust, plated:lizard=_ 2.25: c 1
Helodermatidae:
Heloderma horridum___----------- Mexican beaded lizard______-_-_--_- 4
Heloderma suspectum__----------- Gila monsters 2 25 2. 2 25 ee ee 8
Teiidae:
Cnemidophorus s. sexlineatus- ~~ --- Six-lined lizard =... 34a 3
Tupinambis nigropunctatus.__----- Tern Liza @ hate ek 2
Scincidae:
Egernia cunninghami__.---------- Cunningham’s skink________-___- 3
ERUMECES I OSCIOLUS ee ee ee Red-headed skink__.__.---------- 1
Barmeces.obsoletus. 2-2 5 4 Brown. skinketets,< 4: Jem. eet 3
Telaquenignovuled 2p Mottledtlizardi = 35 eee 1
Telaqua scincotdes =<. s_ 2 Blue-tongued lizard_____-_------- 2
Trachysaurus rugosus_...--------- Stump-tailed lizard __.._...--.---- 1
94

ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938

Varanidae: Number
Varanusigoulatts aaa. as ae ee Gould‘smonitor==22 5 22253222" 1
Varanus grtseus....2 322522235255 Gray moniior 2+ S. - b ee ee 1
Varanus komodoensis__----------- Komodondrarons es see are 1
Varanus niloticus. *— S252 22s ease African monitor a2 2- 2 ea 1
Varanus salvatars 22> ee see Sumatran monitor__-—-_-._.-.--- 13

OPHIDIA
Boidae:
Bow cantina 5. .)2s 2 eae ee Green tree boa.222eus ee uengesd 1
Boa cookts iv 2eut baeode ees Cook's, tree -boa stuns. aa 1
Constrictor constrictors. 2.9232. Commion boas. 2922755 uae aa 1
Enpicrates angulifer.._.-..-.--...-- Cuban tree boat. oc4ssheeeaeen8 3
Epterates ‘cenchris. Yo sooo tele Risanbow DGS soe ee 11
Eipterates: artes ook eee Haitisneboress).22 el. ee 2,
RIPON REN Ss test ee indiagn‘sand boaiss. See 1
Pimectes murine iso) ee POEs 5 2s 1
Tropidophis melanurus...-------- Cubswibea ote - 5a te ee 1
Pythonidae:
Python amethystinus__=. ~~~ 2.5. Amethystine python--_--_-__._.-- 1
PeythOnICUnLUs = = eee Bloodtpythone 222. eee 3
Python molurite 0 2 Iindianipythones2 22s. )- 2 see ee 4
iPainon regis ote 25s eee ee Ballpython 22s testes ee Sees 1
Python relicutatus:= 22222 ot el oe Recaltpythonis= 22442252 se= see 5
iBython;sevaes eee es eee African rock python—_—-__2==2-_*- 3
Python warwegarin-- eo Carpetpython=2222 525222225 2
Colubridae:
Alsdphis-anguiypers.—- = See JUbOTOn Culler Ae = =e eee 1
boaga dendrophilasc-=2 2-2 Sse Mangroveranake:--.. Joo ae 1
Coluberte..constrictor o-oo noose Black snakes sos ess. cos ooo 1
Drymarchon corais coupert_------- Indigo snakes 22 ieee 12
Banlewutiota-22. esses Sere Corm snakes? <2 2099s) eee 2
Elaphe obsoleta confinis.-_--------- Southern pilot snake_______.____- 1
Plapheo: obseleia 26 = 2 Pilotisnake.co2e-_ 5 &
Elaphe quadrivittata_.._.-_------- OGhicken'‘snakes:<2 0222 so eee ete 2
Blagheoulpwigrt 222% 2S oe ec Poewanske? 6554.5, 5a eee 1
Lampropeltis getulus boylit___.---- Boyle’s:king snakes. 2S 2 sae 3
Lampropeltis getulus floridana.---- Blorids king snake. 22220 3
Lampropeltis g. getulus_.--.------ Hing anake* sia. oS ee ee 3
Lampropeltis getulus holbrooki___--- Holbrook’s king snake_______-_-- 2
Lampropeltis rhombomaculata_----- Mole'‘make: 22.5225 428 SSS ieee f
Pro pelitevernalisn ae OC Ie nt. Smooth green snake_____---_---- 2
Natrincyclopton2-—— 3s Water siakes. 2 S222 eee 10
Narrinigpete= --3 - ose ne Water snakes. 22252. 2:33.) 2 10
Piuophisicalenier.—- >_< -5-2-e22- Western’ bull’snake: — 2.2L 2s 1
Pituophis melanoleucus_-..------- Dull snake: 22442 See See 2
Pio phtsvaayt 2 ep eee ee eee Pine‘ snake# 223 25205 2 eee 1
Mierenatenayicoe nese ees DeKay senake. oS 3
Thamnophis sauritus...---------- Ribbon snake:< 22222225 ee 3
Thamnophis sirtalis concinnus-_---- Pacific garter-snake___---..=-2.- 15

Thamnophis §. eirlales. 25. 2 Garter onake 2 210 5250520 eee 2
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 95

Elapidae: Number
DISC TORUS SUS = 2 See ee et (ORR RNSKG. <2 Je ees tyes ee 1
Wicajer RAT oe bas 9 eet pete! Se King cobracs7o ouster asses BL 2
Naja tripudians sumatrana__------ Sumatran black-hooded cobra___-_- 1
Naja tripudians (var.)_.---------- Spectacled cobra... ess4s2222¢_ 3
Naja tripudians (var.)_--.-------- Siamese black-hooded cobra__-_-_-_-_ 3
INOLeChIS SCulabisetsee see Sues Australian tiger snake___.-.._____ 1

Crotalidae:

Agkistrodon mokasen_-_----------- Copperhead 2... rea) Bh 2
Agkistrodon piscivorus_----------- Wiser moeensin. =2—5222s.e.eee 6
Crotalus adamanteus___.....------ Diamond-backed rattlesnake______ 1
Crotalus cinersussererer folie is a2. Desert rattlesnake__.........____ 1
Crotalus amigusectade-sice oleh Banded rattlesnake___.._._______- 4
Sistrurus catenatus catenatus____--_- MNSRASSIPR. 22 oo 1
prsirurus miltarius .--- 72215 Piginy ratbhlemmake =... 2522. 1

Viperidae:

I PEUIR CUMNGEDER <2 So Sk West African tree viper___.--___- 2
NE CE 17 (ea ran e alingm: Vipers o2l. 42, eee 1
TESTUDINATA

Chelydidae:

Chelodina longicollis_.....-.------ Australian snake-necked turtle__._. 3

Chelye Vinprigue. = = no ae a Matamata turtle. _.........____- 1

Hydromedusa tectifera___.-------- South American snake-necked tur- 6
tle.

Platemys platycephala___--------- Fiat-head:turtie. .-_--. =o 2 1

Platysternidae:

Platysternum megacephalum _------ Large-headed Chinese turtle______ 2

Pelomedusidae:

Pelomeduse galeata._<=.22.5-.5. 5. Common African water-tortoise__. 2
Podecnemis expanse... ~~. ~...=== South American river tortoise_____ 1

Kinosternidae:

Kinosternon flavescens__-.-------- Musk turtle 2250 Suet cl eee 1
Kinosternon subrubrum-_-__-------- VUULTTSL ec Tg 8 | Be Se eee tee NEE DRED 4
Chelydridae:
Chetydra-oseeolas. _- 2 ase Osceola snapping turtle.__.______ 1
Chelydra rosstgnonti_...-...-- 225-2 Rossignon’s snapping turtle______- 1
Chelydra serpentina_-_------------ Snapping turtle... --— oes ne =e 4
Macrochelys temminckiti__.-.------ Alligator snapping turtle_________ 1
Testudinidae:
CUT USCINYS DICE ose se ewe Pamted turtle... $20 2s ee oe 2
MCOMAINIS (UII eo ke ne a Spotted Cure 64 1
Clemmys muhlenbergii__---------- Muhlenberg’s tortoise._...___.___ 1
Cyclemys amboinensis___--------- Malayan box turtle__--....______ 18
Deirochelys reticularia_...-------- Chicken’ tortoise. 2.222022 1
Geoclemmys subtrijuga------------ Siamese field turtle._.__..._______ 1
Geomyda spinosa. 23 eo = Spiny hill tortoise: 2-2... 25. 1
Gopherus polyphemus__--_-------- Gopher tortoise: 225-25 0 oe yet 1
Malaclemmys centrata___.-------- Diamond-back terrapin______-__- 8
Pseudemys concinna__------------ OO DeSean a es) aad 5
Pseudemys decussata._.-.-------- Haitian terrapin... 5-4-2552 4. 1
Pseudemys elegans. .2.-3----<...- Cumberland terrapin_____-_______ 2
Pseudemys floridana___----------- Honda terrapin... 2 5 oe 2

Pseudemys rugosus.__---..-..-.~- Cuban- terrapin. 222-525-5220. 2
96 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938

Testudinidae—Continued.

Temapene carolina... -62 202 ea5- Box tortoises. 525 22-2 ses
herrapene: Majors. Sse eee Florida, box turtle__--.-.---=_
Testudo elephantinag=-- 52 ee Aldabra ‘tortoise: 2-20.22 2A ae
Reshido:.emys.-. 2 eee Dales Sumatran land tortoise________
Tesiudavephipnvimins 2s. =e anes Duncan Island tortoise___----_-
Testudo hoodensise 39552 Sas ua sseS Hood Island tortoise____..____
Testudovtabulata2 222-2 sees South American tortoise____---
hestudo torent 53-2 Ser eee Soft-shelled land tortoise___-__-_
Restuda meine. o= 3 eee Albemarle Island tortoise_-__----
Trionychidae:
Amyda feraris ~s225o 4 Bas Pies Soft-shelled turtle. ___._----_-
Trionyxcarkilagineuss 22S 2228 Asiatic soft-shelled turtle_-----
AMPHIBIA
CAUDATA
Salamandridae:
VAN ELUES TUNUUTISS Hoo oe renee RAAMANUOE sn ees vee
Batrachoseps attenuatus______----- Salamander 2-22 2o2 es
Ensatina eschscholizit_.____.-.----- Salamanger=. 420.0 =. ee
Triurus pyrrhogaster_ = --- 2. Red-bellied Japanese newt__-__-
RrHUrus UT Mescense = 2 a se Common tiewt_.=—--..2 25
Amphiumidae:
Amphiuma means... ---=---c==- Blind eel or Congo snake_-_-_-__-
Amphiuma tridactylum__--------- Blind eel or Congo snake-_-----
Megalobatrachus japonicus_-_------ Giant salamander. .__-___----
Cryptobranchidae:
Cryptobranchus alleganiensis__----- Melibender: o.oo: ane. eee
SALIENTIA
Brachycephalidae:
Atelopus varius varius..._--------- Yellow atelopus...~.-==22-—-=
Discoglossidae:
Bombina bombing. 2— ~~ = 2 = Fire=bellied toads. -— = 222---_
Dendrobatidae:
Dendrovates auratus.2.-- 9-2-2). Arrow-poison frog___---------
Bufonidae:
PIO LUN TURE aes eae ee Créen toade sa ee eee
iO CMeniCONUS ean ae ee Common American toad_-_.---
SOC PUSUBE ean se ae ak See Sapo deconcha-2 82-222
uso Marinus ae So ee Marine toad 32 2* ee ee
Bujo peltocephalus>; 222-2 22 Cuban giant toad___.._.-._.-.
‘Bufo supercitvosus.. 2 = = = Beat tond ste. +22. a eee
Ceratophrydae:
Ceraiophry scars oo Horned toad 2e- os. 2 2= eee ee
Hylidae:
FIG Cacrilene ss eee Australian tree frog_.___------
FIle CINEREA Se ee ae ee Florida tree frog. >" Ss
Toylascrciferac.2: oo ee ee ee LPCOUhOR eee ea cee eee
Hyla.septenirionalis___— = ~---_ 22 - Cuban tree frogs = 2see se see
Pipidae:
Pipe GMeMCOnt oe sone eee eee Surinam tosde22--2 ---s-sece

NERO DUS ED A ae es ee ee ae Smooth-clawed frog__..-------

Number

ae ae

— i
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 07

Ranidae: Number
Hana cutespeiane.. = = aan Sc wh i201 ah cc a ae ed SE eS RG meg 1
and clamiiunee s- 2 sono ace Greenirop: 2200 = son es 1
Rana sphenocephala_-__.---------- Southern leopard frog._-______--- 1

FisHES

Acanthopthalmus kuhlit___..---------- Banded loach. = -..625. 222. = 6

PANDUUICTOSTOM. Seas etas 22 oes Common cele 222 so eee 3

LENPYTEPTICITS TOSS SEIRE 5 gf A st en ag AE nae oe eR eS ee A oS 1

Brachyaanion ferios =. 2 FS Zebrantish eee shies ee 2

Canydoras cence. <a ss eke Trinidad armored catfish_________ 4

Corydoras melanistius__....-.-.-=..—-- Armored eathish= =. 2-2- 422.2. 1

Electrophorus electricus.......----=--=- Bleeirievecl 22526. 3 e~ 2 SES eee 1

Helostoma temminckit_......-------<- WssINg SOURNMIN 2 2 ee 1

LICE OCT OTE ECRTT CNS (CT 1A YE, eae Re a ae ee es 0) Oy ee 1

IOS OMNUS Ba = aa ae oe a ot ArMOTen eathgh... 5-20 i2csec522= 1

Mr yOlOnicras DiCtthhUse == = o-oo So aS Gaay COSI a2 eo A ee 5

MreUTSIeS PCMCHLOLUS =n 2 oe ia CET a 0: aR ie a hea Ease 50

epidosiren paradota._.---=-—---=---—* South American lungfish__._______ 3

Monocirrhus polyacanthus_.._-..------ cept tS. as EN ed ee ee 3

Platypoecilus maculatus__._.__-------- Goldplatiea:- ia: 2 ise ae anes 20

esMCHI ERLE be = ate = SL gly bee, bya ee I a 5

Proltopterus annectens...—= == -=====.=-< African Sumpfishe «os < "2. 22 2

eropnyuum scalare= =.= 5--- -=--o2< Angel hgh. once soces ooo eee 1

HES OGRA ULECELOMION DO 2 ae ay oe me een ee ee Oe Ee ee 3

Trichogaster trichopterus_...---------- Three-spot gourami_..__________-_ 3

apLophorus hewertto 5... ss esedee Swordteilie. 242 o_ $ 5 - | eS 1

ARACHNIDS
[Sh 172 4/0) 0 Ea ely 8 ea Retr ule = ser 22 3 oe 3
alrodecits mactans= ooo 3 8 = Black widow spider..-2-+.-2..0=- 4
INSECTS
PH AUCHONS 2 20 fe Sele eee se Giant cpekronch:- 2" 22 ene 100
Mo..vsxks
MCKOLING VATIEQMla. 2-2 - = ee ee Giant land'snailes 3 Sf Sso eee 6

Respectfully submitted.
W. M. Mann, Director.

Dr. C. G. ABzBot, :
Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.
sada }

vier =

if TN
WEP ony

an eh

ope:

via ice

+
: 1d

A doit ‘rataened *

apy
tee inmates Leak

re ie

Gh be

_—.

; . ete? a: ins 4 a
Hay become hahint Tf
ou thetizen beat A
dwelt
t: (Nea ad

a

a Aj

ae
a 7? roid hs
ATR We RED

’

ocepeea
oe yy

aie savinl
bible so tt TT
-folalgblob

- Ane ¢

ada

At)

itt yT 4: iitel.)

_
Sm:
>

‘liad Surat

is et
Kral}

; :

» 6

es
%

enw xa!

thy P45

‘en iv

Tai qwrt

7

Daan)

cee -tit eine Soper ti wih

aad ii ioe ish eo

. et aha Oe
Agost whi kara rei Nase sarees
sain b aAB cinta
ic ‘Su deshad ALlToAAgOne
4 elo igi yan
mop hte be. eriechig
i< Ana gore. muta:
‘ bid 2b Latishaet aio!

bi ae

tt

oO

fai a

Ai

~—=ates ste AGH
cine

*

ee

an a
Sdnligw

+

: api net) Migs Sala

bust siisteere wiluis agen

oy
mE anh ' a AT

> cient ca Hoanteatee Mine diel ire foe

1

Eid merges.
A ine pe

1s

ae Sealy ~ Pe

q ictyk

wi
HAG ee Le 7
POL bene Al
an te a ro
ue

vp ‘speed: ond, ip AGew = ws
A pnirer oe

vi a

B eee a at
ore

be
AAT,

Vive teigic is
Cake ares fi Dik tp
< OP As ‘

‘ a

»
rae.

nha. wee! ine...

roe

r<
ab

, $A
ape ie Be
; 7]

Fail

‘i

is preted A

APPENDIX 8
REPORT ON THE ASTROPHYSICAL OBSERVATORY

Str: I have the honor to submit the following report on the
activities of the Astrophysical Observatory for the fiscal year ended
June 30, 1938:

WORK AT WASHINGTON

RECOMPUTATIONS

The recomputation of solar-constant values under the direction of
L. B. Aldrich, referred to in last year’s report, was the main business.
A considerable force of extra computers was employed on a job
basis under grants-in-aid from John A. Roebling. Also a consider-
able force of W. P. A. workers was assigned to the project. With
the regular force and these extra workers the immense task is nearly
completed. It is hoped to finish the entire recomputations and com-
parisons of solar-constant results from all stations by January 1939,
so as to make up a homogeneous series of daily values from 1923
to the present time.

STELLAR SPECTRUM ENERGY CURVES

In 1922, 1923, 1928, and 1934, attempts were made, in cooperation
with the Mount Wilson Observatory, to measure the distribution of
energy in the spectra of some of the brighter stars. The measure-
ments were made in the focus of the 100-inch reflecting telescope.
Results of some value were reached in 1923 and 1928, using a pris-
matic spectroscope and the radiometer. In 1934 it was attempted,
in cooperation with Dr. Joel Stebbins, to observe at 10 wave lengths
selected by Christiansen filters, employing a photoelectric cell. Un-
fortunately, owing to the great inequality of sensitiveness of the cell
for different wave lengths of radiation, these observations proved
valueless.

Since 1934 repeated attempts have been made at Washington to
devise a radiation-measuring instrument with a black absorbing sur-
face. We desired to attain sufficient sensitiveness to get good meas-
urements with the Christiansen filters for stars as faint as third
magnitude. In the opinion of able astronomers this would be a
highly valuable accomplishment, indeed one of the most interesting

99
114728—39——8
100 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938

for astronomy. It is to be hoped that when the 200-inch telescope
becomes available such a sensitive measuring instrument may be used
successfully with a prismatic or grating spectroscope, and with pho-
tographic registration, so as actually to secure continuous spectral
energy curves of the brighter stars.

In our attempts to realize the highly sensitive measuring device,
we tried for several months to perfect the kampometer, but it did
not quite reach our demands. We then turned to the improvement
of the galvanometer, hoping to use it to observe the indications of the
delicate thermopile such as L. B. Clark now constructs for use in the
Division of Radiation and Organisms. Our intention was to employ
with the galvanometer the magnetic shield which was constructed for
us about 18 years ago by the late Dr. Elihu Thomson of Lynn, and
to insert therein, in highly evacuated space, a galvanometer of the
Kelvin suspended magnetic system type. We hoped by high evacu-
ation to be able to use a very light system at a time of single swing
as high as 10 seconds, and that the sensitiveness would be found
nearly proportional to the square of time of swing, even up to this
long period. As the magnetic shield is very effective indeed, we at-
tempted at first to use a galvanometer of only one pair of coils, with
a single group of magnets. But while this arrangement is evidently
the most sensitive possible, we found that what was gainéd in sensi-
tiveness was more than lost in instability. Accordingly, we con-
structed an astatic system with two opposed groups of magnets sepa-
rated but little over 10 millimeters between centers, and two pairs of
correspondingly small coils, making a combined resistance of about
17 ohms.

Preliminary trials at Washington indicated a high sensitiveness,
but with the mechanical and electrical disturbances unavoidable in
a city, we could not tell whether the stability was adequate. To test
this question, Messrs. Abbot and Hoover observed, by invitation, with
this galvanometer at John A. Roebling’s estate in Florida in March
1938. They found a 10-second single swing easily practicable; the
proportionality of sensitiveness to the square of time of swing nearly
followed up to that period, and the stability was so good that readings
at a scale distance of 5 meters seemed likely to disclose vibrations only
rarely exceeding 1 millimeter in amplitude.

Tests with the thermopile and candle flame seemed to indicate
that the new combination would prove between 10 and 100 times
as effective as the combination employed by Dr. Abbot in 1928. Mr.
Hoover made a new and better magnetic system after returning
from Florida. The excellent showing of the galvanometer is almost
wholly due to his work, though based on the extensive researches of
Messrs. Abbot and Fowle about the years 1898 to 1900.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 101

In May 1938 Mr. Hoover went to Mount Wilson to prepare for
new measurements of the energy in the spectra of the stars, and to
make studies of the growth of plants in monochromatic rays, taken
from sunlight by Christiansen filters. It may be said, by anticipa-
tion, that in both researches Mr. Hoover has been able to make
gratifying progress, as will be reported next year. It may even be
said now with confidence that when the 200-inch telescope is avail-
able it will be possible to get excellent continuous stellar spectrum
energy curves for all types of stars. Thus far Mr. Hoover has suc-
ceeded in measuring electric currents with his 17-ohm galvanometer
of 1X10-?? amperes, and to observe the rays of a candle flame on a
thermoelement of 1 millimeter diameter from a candle distance of
150 meters.

ATMOSPHERIC TURBIDITY AND MOISTURE APPARATUS

In 1930 we constructed a special instrument, containing a spectro-
bolometer, an Angstrém pyrheliometer, and a pyranometer, for the
use of Mr. Moore in testing the availability of mountain sites in and
near Africa for solar-constant work. With this portable instrument
he could determine the total precipitable water in the atmospheric
path of sun rays, as well as total intensity of solar radiation, and
the brightness of the sky. This instrument came to the attention of
the United States Weather Bureau, and was considered to be of much
promise for their work. At the request of Chief Gregg, the Smith-
sonian Institution has undertaken to duplicate it for the Weather
Bureau, and the instrument maker, Mr. Kramer, is at work thereon.

UTILIZING SOLAR RADIATION

Some further progress has been made by Dr. Abbot on devices for
utilizing solar radiation. While in Florida, in March, he tried out
with gratifying results a solar flash boiler, a solar water distiller,
and a toy solar cooker.

FIELD STATIONS

Several considerations led to the abandonment of the Mount St.
Katherine solar-radiation station in December 1937. The isolation of
the station made its occupation hazardous. Its remoteness and isola-
tion made its upkeep costly. An intestinal infection attacked all of
the observers and proved stubborn to cure. The likelihood of a great
European war made it probable that the observatory might be wholly
cut off from Washington. The station was abandoned with regret,
for meteorologically it had proved to be excellent, perhaps equal to
Montezuma.
102 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938

Instead of St. Katherine, it was decided to locate a station in south-
western New Mexico. This location seemed to partake of the clima-
tological advantages of Old Mexico. Our other stations, both north-
ern and southern, have all had relatively bad observing conditions
in the months December to March. In Old Mexico and southwestern
New Mexico, on the contrary, these months promise to be the most
cloudless of all.

A. F. Moore has located the new station on Burro Mountain near
Tyrone, N. Mex., at a level of about 8,000 feet. The living conditions
there seem to give promise of being quite as attractive as at Table
Mountain. It lies not far from four fair-sized towns, the people of
the vicinity are helpful and pleasant, and the United States Forest
Service is exceedingly helpful and welcoming regarding the project.
It is hoped to be ready to observe in October or November 1938.

With two pleasant stations besides Washington in the United
States, and one more isolated one in Chile, it seems feasible to rotate
the observers hereafter without undue privation.

The stations at Table Mountain and Montezuma have continued
to observe the solar constant of radiation daily, when possible.

ULTRAVIOLET SOLAR RADIATION

Having failed thus far to obtain sufficient financial support to oper-
ate enough solar-constant stations to determine adequately the varia-
tion of the sun on every day of the year, as referred to in last year’s
report, it has been hoped to accomplish in some other way a program
of measuring solar variation as influencing weather. Several possi-
bilities exist. For recent years, in America, England, and Australia,
records of atmospheric ionization at great altitudes are being obtained
by several institutions and individuals. The ionization is thought
to be dependent on solar radiation, far in the ultraviolet spectrum, at
wave lengths less than 1000 angstroms. Results seem to indicate
that these rays vary over a great range, perhaps as much as 500
percent. It is hoped that these measurements may be correlated
with weather.

Inasmuch, however, as both theory and our preliminary observa-
tions indicate that the variation of the sun, which is only of the
order of 1 or 2 percent in the total radiation, may be as great as
15 or 20 percent at ultraviolet wave lengths about 3300 angstroms,
it was hoped that automatic sounding balloon methods might be
developed whereby the variation of the sun’s radiation in this part
of the ultraviolet spectrum could be measured accurately enough for
weather predicting. To this end the Smithsonian Institution made
two grants in aid to Dr. Brian O’Brien, of Rochester, N. Y. Dr.
O’Brien, aided also by the University of Rochester and by several
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 103

generous manufacturing corporations, has gone far to develop highly
ingenious methods and apparatus for measuring solar variation in
the ultraviolet from sounding balloons, automatically observed on
the ground through radio transmission of signals. He hopes soon
to be in position to compare this type of results with those of solar-
constant work reported from our stations.

PUBLICATION

Dr. Abbot published a résumé of his studies on solar variation and
weather changes in a number of the Czechoslovak scientific journal
concerning physics, prepared in honor of Dr. 8S. Hanzlik. A small
number of separates of this résumé are available for distribution if
solicited by interested parties.

PERSONNEL

F. E. Fowle, who entered the service of the Astrophysical Observa-
tory in 1894, having been retired for disability, W. H. Hoover, who
has heretofore had special status with the Astrophysical Observatory,
as a field director, was promoted to the position of Senior Astro-
physicist on October 16, 1937.

Respectfully submitted.

C. G. Apsot, Director.

THe SECRETARY,

Smithsonian Institution.
en ad
w\ i Sie Miva Lens an io S Min? 7 WAis
t a [ aie ag

feat: a pate ra se
if) *) ney regs mf : met, ‘i ri Pape
Ee cy vegiteedia Tl i ny eal ip Ty) let. . ori VAL
petri we Ls ‘ast na Wine Th : ieern a
tytn Coane ba

Kehesieys
ae i - fulic bl wit, Whatyind
Vas s”% rh “ai! j eo J ’ —
PT athe bred ceueale’ veins Oder owe ey
Gleb eta) 01): (T pula itiegigod bertivsuered yew oni ba
seulet ech (ari cutis: ude Olt, athe hele tes wedge
awk wine, ta nolsisi af). oF Dxlouwet aan pts bait a4
reat 7 is Suge thir tates tl} io te a
AR ts
7 murs His i bivigee pdoae taht op a
CA! OO ae err io ig aot ae a
; mat on
nfeydt = th oe
ae | Miaeks : , p ‘fr ‘daliees é ott i
ieee ee, Fi ry Tae 1 Siege
irate: of wiltace tli bt | ma faye ie WUT and.
Be MePReS ia OR Sat vis hy totdannen go ray “i
te a vitalery) fe Jee, fee ean ahem cpt util
watay a mein ice iv Walrad. * eect aa oe Ty A
ie? ne ;
. bt orn

=) 4ie | hha : a
+ ast MSE) Sek
" i

a

alte © iv
shew ee my ies je terre Tare a“
poe -O te Chet ou pact “fl He. ok, @E
. | a ae ae eheigicaa: J dco. ee! eliat ry ue
By 7 bervon'. 2 rede Uh. aa luca Sy dient ER ai ie
a’) eased itn tia) airemhay Vie Sa ‘bai 7
wit so Mad oor! the, Yar wists | as J Wh deltas Ce 2
bhiy witriniiet epee tar ecAl he won wicirirely aes na he
At dopadivn. Gaatetdingy Dh Nate wig Uh Saglbiensiers Hiasttboite
wane del vs LW. Stren Cen, oP pte, Wie
i, Pitino in 2%, olen Bea a

on ae . a Sy
APPENDIX 9

REPORT ON THE DIVISION OF RADIATION AND
ORGANISMS

Sir: I have the honor to submit the following report on the ac-
tivities of the Division of Radiation and Organisms during the year
ended June 30, 1938:

The fundamental facts relating to plant growth and radiation have
been fruitfully pursued by the Division during the year. Mr. Hoover,
temporarily loaned for studies of radiation and photosynthesis, had
been recalled for continuous work with the Astrophysical Observa-
tory. To assist in these and other plant studies under Dr. Johnston’s
immediate direction, Dr. R. L. Weintraub was engaged. He de-
veloped an improved method of measuring plant growth substances
which are concerned in the bending of plants toward the light. A
description of this method with data from a number of experiments
is now ready for publication under the title, “An assay method for
plant growth substances utilizing straight growth of the Avena
coleoptile.” Dr. Weintraub is continuing the earlier work of Dr.
Johnston on the growth of the first internode in light of very low in-
tensities and in different spectral regions. It is interesting to note
that the plant responds to light intensities far below those which can
be detected by the most sensitive thermocouples.

Messrs. Johnston, McAlister, Weintraub, Clark, and Fillmen have
been preparing a new automatic apparatus for measuring and record-
ing photosynthesis continuously. It is similar in nature to the de-
vice employed by Dr. McAlister, to which reference was made in last
year’s report, but with the added feature of continuous automatic
photographic registration. This new apparatus was nearly ready for
use at the close of the fiscal year. It is to be used with a powerful
light source, comprising a 60-inch army searchlight, loaned by the
War Department, and a battery of mirrors at the focus of the beam
so placed that slender plants such as wheat, or others, may be il-
luminated strongly from all sides. Experiments of many kinds re-
lating to photosynthesis and the formation of chlorophyll are about
to be taken up with this efficient outfit. Another piece of apparatus
has been developed for the determination of chlorophyll. Very good
results can be obtained with concentrations as low as 0.1 mg chloro-
phyll per liter of solution. This equipment is being used in con-

105
106 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938

nection with the CO, absorption studies and the formation of
chlorophyll.

Among other projects, photosynthesis in algae is to be investigated.
In preparation for this research Dr. Johnston and Dr. Meier have
been testing various methods of producing thin coatings of living
algae on rods and plates, without the interposition of water layers
between the algae and such light source as may be employed. Success-
ful cultures of this sort have been made.

Dr. Meier had a very serious fall in early December 1937 and was
incapacitated until June 1938, but returned to work part time in June
and full time in July. Prior to her accident she made further ob-
servations on stimulation of multiplication of algae by ultraviolet
rays which in larger dosage would be lethal. While the results ob-
tained certainly point strongly to a positive conclusion, further
work must be done before publication.

Dr. Johnston has continued investigations on mixtures of artificial
lights suitable to promote fully satisfactory plant growth under
laboratory conditions.

Dr. McAlister has made prolonged further studies on the depend-
ence of the induction periods in the photosynthesis of wheat on the
length of previous dark exposures. In addition, an uptake of CO, by
leaves in darkness has been discovered which has an important bear-
ing on photosynthesis. These phenomena are held by students of
photosynthesis to be of the greatest possible interest in obtaining an
understanding of the fundamental reactions which occur in plants
under the influence of light. Until the perfection of the technique by
Dr. McAlister, and his introduction of spectroscopy, as a highly
sensitive means of instantaneously measuring carbon dioxide assimila-
tion, the subject was practically beyond the possibility of investiga-
tion. But during the past year he has accumulated great numbers
of results which are the foundation of a paper he will shortly publish
under the title: “Chlorophyl—CO, ratio during photosynthesis,”
which it is believed will be of the very highest interest to students of
this subject. As heretofore the technical work of the Division has
been ably promoted by Messrs. Clark and Fillmen.

As noted under the Report on the Astrophysical Observatory, Mr.
Hoover has made interesting experiments at Mount Wilson, Calif., on
growing plants to maturity in narrow ranges of spectrum selected
from the sunbeam. This work will be described in next year’s report.

The following publications have been issued from the Division
during the fiscal year:

JOHNSTON, EARL S.

Phototropic response and CO: assimilation of plants in polarized light.
Smithsonian Misc. Coll., vol. 96, No. 3, 1987.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 107

Growth of Avena coleoptile and first internode in different wave-length
bands of the visible spectrum. Smithsonian Misc, Coll. vol. 96, No. 6,
1937.

Plant growth in relation to wave-length balance. Smithsonian Misc. Coll.,
vol. 97, No. 2, 1938.

Sun rays and plant life. Smithsonian Ann. Rep. 1936, pp. 3853-371, 1937.

MEIER, FLORENCE E.

Reactions to ultraviolet radiation. Smithsonian Ann. Rep. 1936, pp. 373-

382, 1937.

Respectfully submitted.
C. G. Assor, Director.
Tue SECRETARY,
Smithsonian Institution.
ue ne") ¥

# aabrchalinth mea
; mit ets Me Bae weet ik fy sh
ot oe ret

ie, pagent Aina. UY ea
pis hy pen jit inte 7° bee, ee

Wr 9 = ‘ ak dope) at) tidy fae of
P| apo sera See Ph
Palit ve Oye wet eoaee, ii ‘ote fas
1 Gay. oe andes hate Gt aioe) Lit ah tren
Fare wii in later? omy Poul nt
ee eM ee iae) quars ‘windy ly S>.e Que
Hees Marrero, Papen’ Tar -eiehaa, Na? ae e-7
De, Siouien Was nity ves Liboet an
meme eller le Steeiiuly § .
ae ee v ;
Lt irs « Was Wai Howl Wal fies ies 1; fiat Boy
irs Th lee e,’, ore le fT be ts Fel sides vk vi hop? ae:
porgtt: icf yoevingey igs? ceyrserw. Tr wSleljutey nye Nypider et Oy! re

ee ae

bom

a fedava: ta (Piru lags Legs copier) tlie) aS? en @iper tof Lhe
J aie epaiiser 2@8! ty -« tiie (UUa ac 8M } i. hae ¢ r¢
Sey ii swes bv ie! Ce rte ete Se
pee e heny hayek Ay, cules 7 a
Arridess Lae lilyaercn ot i as bs Lovnivay nya A
Tn” He Abigue oe oe reragpds Vee, ie vigil
MMe ey «Fi Baidy “4 ° rnin iwonds orale
a. Ge 24) £e) 2D n'a GS Tin: fax ashi lihs 4 inves: of
ae Abt durkie the pret Sune if hae poop aal qe) mm
ee eardlis whad: 4rd uv haces phat ® METWe ee Pl r
Gieier hiss Vleas. uy ye oes sah Lay ens A
Tone Aas leno eG, hit Se et Nery ode
Fee eh peje As tomatoe 404 fot: ines -
er Pee Guht yer eat) | : "
WS RUBS Av ti 10
Pepe Baz his: Wi ctw h
yon ree Me Pia be PbGsE 4 v mays
| bass Uy finn ibe Gi tae’ tu 5 i Out Alen
Vhs, Mwai pubis ataen =e aon

“dawg gw feral sa

7
ie

APPENDIX 10
REPORT ON THE LIBRARY

Sir: I have the honor to submit the following report on the activi-
ties of the Smithsonian library for the fiscal year ended June 30,

1938:
THE LIBRARY

The library, or library system, of the Smithsonian comprises 45
libraries. Chief among these are the Smithsonian deposit in the Li-
brary of Congress, which is the main library of the Institution, and
the libraries of the United States National Museum and the Bureau of
American Ethnology. The others are the Langley aeronautical li-
brary, also deposited in the Library of Congress, the Smithsonian
office library, the libraries of the Astrophysical Observatory, Freer
Gallery of Art, National Collection of Fine Arts, National Zoological
Park, Radiation and Organisms, and the sectional libraries, 35 in
number, of the National Museum.

PERSONNEL

Two changes occurred in the library staff. Mrs. George C. Rodgers,
senior stenographer, withdrew from Government service, and the po-
sition was reclassified to that of assistant clerk-stenographer and filled
by the appointment of Miss Nancy Alice Link, through transfer from
the Bureau of Internal Revenue. The assistant messenger, Joseph
A. Salat, Jr., resigned and Clyde E. Bauman was transferred to the
vacancy from the United States Naval Academy. The temporary
assistants were Mrs. Gladys S. Wilson, Miss Margaret Kober, and 17
employees assigned to the library by the Works Progress Administra-
tion.

EXCHANGE OF PUBLICATIONS

The exchange work of the library was noteworthy. It brought to
the receiving room 22,800 packages by mail and 2,464 by the Inter-
national Exchange Service—a total of 25,264, each containing one
or more publications. Besides several generous sendings from the
United States, such as those from the American Antiquarian Society,
the Paleontological Institution, and the University of Washington,
there were many from abroad, the largest being from the Koninklijke

109
110 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938

Akademie van Wetenschappen, Amsterdam; Uceni Spolecnost
Safarikova, Bratislava; Academie Royale des Sciences de Belgique,
Brussels; Polskiego Towarzystwa Przyrodnikéw im. Kopernika,
Lwoéw; Royal Society of Victoria, Melbourne; Naturforscher-Verein
zu Riga, Riga; Kgl. Norske Videnskabernes Selskab, Trondheim ; and
the universities of Basel, Cambridge, and Lille.

The 6,037 dissertations received represented an increase of 670 over
the year before. Of these, 2,265 were added to the Smithsonian
deposit, 2,971, having to do largely with medical subjects, were turned
over to the Surgeon General’s library, and the rest, being duplicates,
were sent, under a special exchange arrangement, to Columbia Uni-
versity. They came from the universities of Basel, Berlin, Bern,
Bonn, Breslau, Cornell, Erlangen, Freiburg, Giessen, Greifswald,
Heidelberg, Jena, Kiel, Kénigsberg, Louvain, Lund, Lwéw, Marburg,
Neuchatel, Pennsylvania, Rostock, Strasbourg, Tiibingen, Utrecht,
Wiirzburg, and Ziirich, and the technical schools of Berlin, Braun-
schweig, Delft, Dresden, Karlsruhe, and Ziirich.

The number of letters—2,403—prepared by the staff in course of
the exchange and other work of the library was larger than in 1937,
as was the number of publications obtained by special request to
meet needs in the various libraries of the Institution. The latter
totaled 5,315, more than one-half of which were for the library of
the National Museum. In connection with the effort to provide by
exchange publications essential to the work of the Smithsonian and
its bureaus, the library staff handled 582 want cards and arranged for
285 new exchanges. It should be said, however, in passing, that
hundreds of the volumes and parts in question were found among
the duplicates in the west stacks, a further indication of the value
of this collection and of the effectiveness of the organization to which
it has been subjected.

Finally, it is a pleasure to report that the year marked the return
to stock of numerous sendings, both large and small, of Smithsonian
publications from libraries outside of Washington where they were
duplicates. Thus the supply available for exchange use was again
substantially increased.

GIFTS

The gifts during the year were numerous. From the Geophysical
Laboratory came 3,312 miscellaneous publications, from the American
Association for the Advancement of Science 653, and from the Ameri-
can Association of Museums 209, among them a goodly number of
scientific serials that were especially welcome.

From the libraries of the late Dr. Walter Hough and Dr. Fred-
erick V. Coville, former members of the scientific staff, came, through
Mrs. Hough and Mrs. Coville, many important books and pamphlets.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY Tt

And from Mrs. Charles D. Walcott and the scientists of the Institu-
tion, notably Secretary Abbot and Assistant Secretary Wetmore, even
more publications than usual were received.

But perhaps the outstanding gift of the year was made by Mrs.
William Woodville Rockhill, widow of the one-time American Min-
ister to China. This consisted of 1,186 volumes and pamphlets,
chiefly in Chinese and other Eastern languages, on the history and
culture of China. It was assigned, naturally, to the library of the
Freer Gallery of Art, where it supplements in a notable way the
Rockhill and other collections, as these supplement appreciably,
for research purposes, the Division of Orientalia in the Library of
Congress.

Other gifts included the following: La Mostra del Tintoretto, Cata-
logo delle Opere, from Count Urbano de Bellegarde; Pintura Mexi-
cana (1800-1860), by Roberto Montenegro, from Angel Rosas; Tur-
key in Pictures, from his Excellency, the Turkish Ambassador to
the United States; Description Géométrique Détaillée des Alpes
Francaises, Annexe du Tome Second and Annexe du Tome Dixiéme
(2 copies of each), by Paul Helbronner, from Le Maréchal Pétain;
reprint of The Cactaceae, in 4 volumes, by N. L. Britton and J. N.
Rose (Publication No. 248 of the Carnegie Institution of Washing-
ton), from The Cactus and Succulent Society of America; Nikola
Tesla, a volume issued on the occasion of his 80th birthday, from
La Société pour la Fondation de l'Institut Nikola Tesla; A Catalogue
of the Pictures and Drawings in the Collection of Frederick John
Nettlefold, Volumes III-IV, by C. Reginald Grundy and F. Gordon
Roe, from Frederick John Nettlefold; Mollusques Terrestres et
Fluviatiles d’Asie-Mineure (Voyage Zoologique d’Henri Gadeau de
Kerville en Aise-Mineure), by Louis Germain, from Henri Gadeau de
Kerville; The Works of Edwin Howland Blashfield, with an Intro-
duction by Royal Cortissoz, from Mrs. Grace Hall Blashfield; The
Geology of Pennsylvania, Volume I and Volume II, Parts 1 and 2, by
Henry Darwin Rogers, from John W. Berry for the family of the
late R. D. Lacoe, who, before his death in 1900, presented the Institu-
tion with a valuable collection of coal fossils and his library on
paleozodlogy; The Birds of Tropical West Africa, Volume IV, by
David Armitage Bannerman, from The Crown Agents for the Col-
onies, London; Captains and Mariners of Early Maryland, by Dr.
Raphael Semmes, from the author; Complete Self-Instructing Li-
brary of Practical Photography, in 10 volumes, edited by S. B.
Schriever, from Mrs. A. B. Stebbins; Automobilens Historia, by John
Nerén, from the author; 15 books and pamphlets on various subjects,
including Historia de la Medicina en el Uruguay, Volumes 1-2, by
Rafael Schiaffino, and Historia de la Dominacion Espafiola en el
Uruguay, Volumes 1-3, by Francisco Bauza, from Dr. Rafael Schiaf-
112 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938

fino; Art and Archaeology Abroad, by Dr. Kalidas Nag, from the
author; Old New York from the Battery to Bloomingdale, etchings
by Eliza Greatorex, text by M. Despard, from Mrs. Walter S. Pratt,
Jr.; Interpretive History of Flight, by M. J. B. Davy, from the author;
The Americana Annual for 1937 and 1938, from the editor; The
Great Chain at West Point and Other Obstructions Placed in the
Hudson River during the War of the Revolution, by B. F. Fackenthal,
Jr., from the author; The Phonetics of the Hottentot Language, by
D. M. Beach, from the Research Grant Board, Johannesburg; Hints
on Museum Education, by J. C. Basak, from the author; and The
Tracy Genealogy, by Sherman Weld Tracy, from the author.

SOME STATISTICS

Accessions to the libraries:

Approximate
Volumes Pamphlet Total holdings,

June 30, 1938

Astrophysical Observatory=:-2-2-2----=-- see encore 162 132 294 9, 491
Bureau of American Ethnology--.-..------------------ SOD"|: sessscsene 395 51, 395
NreemGsillerviot-Art=-22s---oe-es-= ee ee SS 634 69 703 13, 377
Ibaneloye Aeronautical: 25252282 222 a en eee 45 21 66 3, 394
National Collection of Fine Arts_--.------------------ 285 271 556 6, 340
INationaleMiiIselimMn= 292 aeons soe = one ee 2, 639 929 3, 568 210, 710
National’ Zoological! Park-222. 22222 ose. see anne eee ae 149 21 170 3, 741
RAGiation ANdOTrcanisMs: = ssee- nese eee 17 7 24 269
Smithsonian deposit, Library of Congress-------._--- 3, 018 1, 974 4, 992 558, 070
Smithsonianiothicesssee- 2 = ea nae eee 106 18 124 30, 627
Votalia esos oe bose ae eas See ee 7, 450 3, 442 10, 892 1 887, 414

1 These holdings do not, of course, include the thousands of volumes still incomplete, uncataloged, or
unbound.

The staff recorded 23,992 periodicals; cataloged 6,449 publications;
prepared and filed 42,568 catalog and shelf list cards; borrowed
2,239 volumes from the Library of Congress and other libraries; and
made 11,380 loans, 340 of which were to libraries outside the Smith-
sonian system. They also advanced materially the index of exchange
relations and the index of Smithsonian publications. The work on
the union catalog was as follows:

VOTIVE Scat: A) 0 Se a a ee a re a el ree 3,439
Pamphiets*and* charts cataloged es i ea ee eee 2,307
News serial Yentries|mad e222 2er 2 ee eee _ Ae eee 165
Ty pedvcardsiadded ito catalog and shelf list2-22 32 ee eee 5, 979
Library of Congress cards added to catalog and shelf list_______________ 13,890

OTHER ACTIVITIES

The staff took down the exhibition set of Smithsonian publications
that for 10 years had formed an imposing monument in the main hall
and filed it away for future service. They brought together the
archives set, checked it, and shelved it in a safe and convenient place.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 13

They supervised the 17 W. P. A. employees assigned to the library
in such tasks as cleaning, repairing, and binding books, putting
pamphlets into binders and lettering them, renovating plates and
maps, typing cards, filling out acknowledgment forms, mounting
aeronautical clippings, sorting and filing duplicates, and assisting
with the cataloging.

They effected special exchanges of duplicates with the libraries of
the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Marine Biological Labora-
tory, Woods Hole, Staten Island Association of Arts and Sciences,
American Museum of Natural History, United States Patent Office,
and the following colleges and universities: Brown, California,
Catholic, Columbia, Duke, Harvard, Michigan, North Carolina,
Pennsylvania, Princeton, Stanford, Williams, and Yale. By these
transactions they placed many publications not wanted by the Insti-
tution where they would be useful and obtained many that were
needed in the collections. Among the latter were Forges and
Furnaces in the Province of Pennsylvania, issued by the Pennsyl-
vania Society of the Colonial Dames of America; The Cannon
Collection of Italian Paintings of the Renaissance, mostly of the
Veronese School, by J. Paul Richter; The African Republic of
Liberia and the Belgian Congo, Volume II, edited by Richard P.
Strong; A Guide to the History and Historic Sites of Connecticut,
in 2 volumes, by Florence §. M. Crofut; Practice of Tempera Paint-
ing, and Materials of Medieval Painting, by Daniel V. Thompson;
Eclipses of the Sun, third edition revised and enlarged, by S. A.
Mitchell; A Catalogue of the Epstean Collection on the History and
Science of Photography and Its Applications Especially to the
Graphic Arts, by Edward Epstean; Benjamin Franklin’s Own Story,
by Nathan G. Goodman; Roman Glass from Karanis, by Donald B.
Harden; Annual Review of Biochemistry, Volume VII, edited by
J. M. Luck and C. R. Noller; and numerous volumes and parts of
the Meddelelser om Gr¢nland.

The staff continued the revision of the files of society and engineer-
ing publications in the natural history and technological libraries of
the National Museum, thus making these important sets more avail-
able for use. The work with the latter was expedited by the arrival
of the steel shelving that had been ordered toward the close of 1937.

They finished recataloging the sectional library of botany and
began that of administration.

And they spent even more time than usual identifying for the
scientists of the Institution obscure citations found in the literature
of their respective subjects, and providing data, including not a few
bibliographies, for letters in answer to requests for information
received from different parts of the country.
114 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938
BINDING

The allotment for binding was again very inadequate, permitting
the libraries to bind only as follows: National Museum, 494 vol-
umes; National Collection of Fine Arts, 45; Astrophysical Observa-
tory, 86. The total, 575 volumes, was but a fraction of the number
that, for the good of the collections, should have been bound. It
is earnestly hoped that more funds can soon be made available for
binding, that this interest of the Smithsonian libraries—an interest
essential to their preservation and usefulness—may be provided for
satisfactorily. In 1935 the average charge for binding was about
$3.25 a volume, while in 1938 it had risen to approximately $5. This
difference of $1.75 has woefully reduced the number of volumes that
can be bound with the sums annually allowed for this purpose.

Fortunately, the Freer Gallery of Art, with funds of its own for
binding, was able to have 57 volumes bound. Fortunately, too, the
Smithsonian Institution, taking advantage of the services of an
expert binder and of two assistants assigned to it under the W. P. A.,
was able to have 414 volumes bound and 148 volumes and 994 pam-
phlets repaired for several of its libraries.

But there remain thousands of unbound volumes, especially in
the National Museum, Bureau of American Ethnology, Astrophys-
ical Observatory, and National Collection of Fine Arts. Most of
the volumes are made up of serial parts. As many of these are in
daily use, they are constantly running the risk of being damaged or
destroyed. And it frequently happens that a part, once lost, cannot
be replaced, particularly if it belongs to a foreign volume of limited
issue,

NEEDS

The need of increased funds for binding has already been men-
tioned. Other needs are only a little less urgent. They are as fol-
lows: Two or more well-trained catalogers to work chiefly in the main
library in the Natural History Building; another messenger to assist
in the libraries in the Smithsonian Building and the Arts and Indus-
tries Building; more shelf room for the library collections in all
three of the principal buildings of the Institution.

Respectfully submitted.

Wuuiam L. Corsi, Librarian.

Dr. C. G. Axsort,

Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.
APPENDIX 11
REPORT ON PUBLICATIONS

Sir: I have the honor to submit the following report on the publi-
cations of the Smithsonian Institution and the Government branches
under its administrative charge during the year ended June 30, 1938:

The Institution published during the year 12 papers in the series
of Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections, 1 annual report, and pam-
phlet copies of the 23 articles in the report appendix, and 2 special
publications.

The United States National Museum issued 1 annual report, 4 bulle-
tins, 1 separate from Bulletin 100, 1 volume of the Proceedings, and
19 separates from Proceedings, volumes 84 and 85.

The Bureau of American Ethnology issued one annual report and
three bulletins.

Of the publications there were distributed 129,478 copies, which
included 87 volumes and separates of the Smithsonian Contributions
to Knowledge, 27,223 volumes and separates of the Smithsonian Mis-
cellaneous Collections, 22,593 volumes and separates of the Smith-
sonian Annual Reports, 4,200 Smithsonian special publications, 57,761
volumes and separates of the National Museum publications, 16,569
publications of the Bureau of American Ethnology, 67 publications
of the National Collection of Fine Arts, 8 publications of the Freer
Gallery of Art, 20 annals of the Astrophysical Observatory, 68 re-
ports of the Harriman Alaska Expedition, and 882 reports of the
American Historical Association.

SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS

Of the Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections, volume 91, there
were issued 3 papers; volume 96, 5 papers and title page and table of
contents; and volume 97, 4 papers, making 12 papers in all, as follows:

VOLUME 91

Reports on the collections obtained by the first Johnson-Smithsonian Deep-Sea
Expedition to the Puerto Rican Deep.

No. 27. A new species of deep-sea fish, Argyropelecus antrorsospinus, of the
family Sternoptichidae, by Leonard P. Schultz. 5 pp., 1 fig. (Publ. 3489.) July
7, 1937.

115
114728—39—_9
116 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938

No. 28. New species of hydroids from the Puerto Rican region, by G. McLean
Fraser. 7 pp., 2 pls. (Publ. 3443.) November 10, 1987.

No. 29. A new genus of starfishes from Puerto Rico, by Austin H. Clark.
7 pp.,1 pl. (Publ. 3481.) June 18, 1938.

VOLUME 96

No. 1. Archeology of St. Lawrence Island, Alaska, by Henry B. Collins, Jr.
431 pp., & pls., 26 figs. (Publ. 3411.) August 9, 1937.

No. 3. Phototropic response and CO: assimilation of plants in polarized light,
by Earl 8. Johnston. 7 pp., 1 fig. (Publ. 3440.) July 12, 1937.

No. 4. Indian sites below the falls of the Rappahannock, Virginia, by David I.
Bushnell, Jr. 65 pp., 21 pls., 11 figs. (Publ. 3441.) September 15, 1937.

No. 5. The male genitalia of orthopteroid insects, by R. E. Snodgrass. 107
pp., 42 figs. (Publ. 3442.) September 25, 1987.

No. 6. Growth of Avena coleoptile and first internode in different wave-
length bands of the visible spectrum, by Earl 8. Johnston. 19 pp., 4 figs.
(Publ. 3444.) November 6, 1987.

Title page and table of contents. (Publ. 3450.)

VOLUME 97

No. 1. Preliminary report on the Smithsonian Institution-Harvard University
archeological expedition to northwestern Honduras, 1936, by William Duncan
Strong, Alfred Kidder IJ, and A. J. Drexel Paul, Jr. 129 pp., 16 pls., 32 figs.
(Publ. 3445.) January 17, 1938.

No. 2. Plant growth in relation to wave-length balance, by Harl 8. Johnston.
18 pp., 4 pls. (Publ. 3446.) January 12, 1988.

No. 3. Middle Cambrian fossils from Pend Oreille Lake, Idaho, by Charles
Elmer Resser. 12 pp.,1 pl. (Publ. 3447.) January 3, 1938.

No. 4. The feeding mechanism of adult Lepidoptera, by John B. Schmitt.
28 pp., 12 figs. (Publ. 3448.) January 10, 1938.

SMITHSONIAN ANNUAL REPORTS

Report for 1936.—The complete volume of the Annual Report of
the Board of Regents for 1936 was received from the Public Printer
in October 1937.

Annual Report of the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution show-
ing operations, expenditures, and condition of the Institution for the year
ending June 30, 1936. xivy-+446 pp., 122 pls., 26 text figs. (Publ. 3405.)

The appendix contained the following papers:

Astronomy in Shakespeare’s time and in ours, by C. G. Abbot.
The size and age of the universe, by Sir James Jeans.

The earth, the sun, and sunspots, by Loring B. Andrews.
Northern lights, by A. 8. Eve.

Radioactivity and atomic theory, by Lord Rutherford.

The cryogenic laboratory at Leiden, by Robert Guillien.

Form, drift, and rhythm of the continents, by W. W. Watts.
Core samples of the ocean bottom, by Charles Snowden Piggot.
Some new aspects of evolution, by W. P. Pyeraft.

What is the meaning of predation? by Paul L. Errington.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY bre

The gorillas of the Kayonsa region, Western Kigezi, SW. Uganda, by
Capt. C. R. S. Pitman.

The vampire bat: A presentation of undescribed habits and review of
its history, by Raymond L. Ditmars and Arthur M. Greenhall.

Some of the commoner birds of Ceylon, by Casey A. Wood.

The wax palms, by Miriam L. Bomhard.

Significance of shell structure in diatoms, by Paul 8S. Conger.

Some aspects of the plant virus problem, by Kenneth M. Smith.

Sun rays and plant life, by Earl S. Johnston.

Reactions to ultraviolet radiation, by Florence H. Meier.

Aerial photography, by Capt. H. K. Baisley.

Easter Island, Polynesia, by Henri Lavachery.

The Eskimo archeology of Greenland, by Therkel Mathiassen,

Petroglyphs of the United States, by Julian H. Steward.

The history of the crossbow, illustrated from specimens in the United
States National Museum, by C. Martin Wilbur.

Report for 1937.—The report of the Secretary, which included the
financial report of the executive committee of the Board of Regents,
and will form part of the annual report of the Board of Regents to
Congress, was issued in January 1938.

Report of the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution and financial report
of the executive committee of the Board of Regents for the year ended June 30,
1937. 128 pp., 7 pls. 1 fig. (Publ. 3449.)

The report volume, containing the general appendix, was in press
at the close of the year.

SPECIAL PUBLICATIONS

Explorations and field work of the Smithsonian Institution in 1937. 122 pp.,
123 figs. (Publ. 3480.) April 9, 1938.

Radio Program Folders, “The World is Yours.” Edition of 200,000 distributed
by the Office of Education, United States Department of the Interior.

PUBLICATIONS OF THE UNITED STATES NATIONAL MUSEUM

The editorial work of the National Museum has continued during
the year under the immediate direction of the editor, Paul H. Oehser.
There were issued 1 annual report, 4 bulletins, and 1 separate from
Bulletin 100, 1 volume of the Proceedings, and 19 separates from
Proceedings volumes 84 and 85, as follows:

MUSEUM REPORT

Report on the progress and condition of the United States National Museum
for the year ended June 30, 1937. iii+130 pp. January 1938.

PROCEEDINGS: VOLUME 84

Complete volume:

Proceedings of the United States National Museum. Vol. 84, viii-+-606 pp.,
80 pls., 34 figs.
118 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938

Separates:

No. 3017. Revision of the North American species of ichneumon-flies of the
genus Hzetastes Gravenhorst. By R. A. Cushman. Pp. 243-812, pls. 16-21.
July 3, 1987.

No. 3019. Moths of the genus Rupela (Pyralididae: Schoenobiinae). By Carl
Heinrich. Pp. 355-888, pls. 22-33. July 3, 1987.

No. 3021. Observations on the birds of West Virginia. By Alexander Wet-
more. Pp. 401-441. August 24, 19387.

No. 3022. Annotated list of West Virginia mammals. By Remington Kellogg.
Pp. 448-479. October 7, 1937.

No. 3028. On the detailed skull structure of a crested hadrosaurian dinosaur.
By Charles W. Gilmore. Pp. 481-491, figs. 29-34. October 12, 1987.

No. 3024. Hydrocorals of the North Pacific Ocean. By Walter Kenrick
Fisher. Pp. 493-554, pls. 34-76. March 8, 1938.

No. 3025. A giant new species of fairy shrimp of the genus Branchinecta
from the State of Washington. By James BH. Lynch. Pp. 5355-562, pls. 77-80.
December 3, 1937.

No. 3026. New species of moths of the family Notodontidae in the United
States National Museum. By William Schaus. Pp. 563-584. December 29,
1937.

—— Title-page, table of contents, and index. Pp. i-viii, 585-606. June
18, 1988.

VOLUME 85

Separates:

No. 3027. On some onychophores from the West Indies and Central America.
By Austin H. Clark. Pp, 1-8. November 5, 1937.

No. 3028. Synopsis of the beetles of the Chilean genus Phytholaema (Scara-
baeidea: Melolonthinae). By Lawrence W. Saylor. Pp. 5-11, fig. 1. December
ay MBE

No. 3029. Redescription of the capelin Mallotus catervarius (Pennant) of
the North Pacific. By Leonard P. Schultz. Pp. 13-20. December 2, 1937.

No. 3030. A Miocene booby and other records from the Calvert formation of
Maryland. By Alexander Wetmore. Pp. 21-25, figs. 2, 3. January 14, 1938.

No. 3031. Another fossil owl from the Eocene of Wyoming. By Alexander
Wetmore. Pp. 27-29, figs. 4,5. January 17, 1938.

No. 3032. Descriptions of new fishes obtained by the United States Bureau
of Fisheries steamer Albatross, chiefly in Philippine and adjacent waters. By
Henry W. Fowler. Pp. 31-1385, figs. 6-61. May 23, 1938.

No. 3033. Evidence of Triassic insects in the Petrified Forest National Monu-
ment, Arizona. By M. V. Walker. Pp. 187-141, pls. 1-4. June 14, 1938.

No. 3034. Review of the annelid worms of the family Nephtyidae from the
Northeast Pacific, with descriptions of five new species. By Olga Hartman.
Pp. 143-158, figs. 62-67. June 8, 1938.

No. 3036. Revision of the Nearctic leafhoppers of the tribe Errhomenellini
(Homoptera: Cicadellidae). By P. W. Oman. Pp. 163-180, pls. 5, 6. May 27,
1938.

No. 3037. A new genus and two new species of the dipterous family Phoridae.
By Charles T. Greene. Pp. 181-185, fig. 69. June 27, 1988.

No. 3038. A new genus and two new species of cottoid fishes from the
Aleutian Islands. By Leonard P. Schultz. Pp. 187-191, fig. 70. May 12, 1938.

BULLETINS

No. 166. The oxystomatous and allied crabs of America. By Mary J. Rathbun.
vi-++278 pp., 86 pls., 47 figs. October 14, 1937.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 119

No. 168. Nearctic Collembola, or springtails, of the family Isotomidae. By
J. W. Folsom. iii+144 pp., 39 pls. July 1, 1937.

No. 169. The Fort Union of the Crazy Mountain Field, Montana, and its
mammalian fauna. By George Gaylord Simpson. x-+387 pp., 10 pls., 80 figs.

August 21, 1937.

No. 171. The Pleistocene vertebrate fauna from Cumberland Cave, Maryland.
By James W. Gidley and C. Lewis Gazin. vi-+99 pp., 10 pls., 50 figs. May 5,
1938.

Separate from Bulletin 100:

Vol. 6, part 9. The tree snails of the genus Cochlostyla of Mindoro Province,
Philippine Islands. By Paul Bartsch. Pp. 373-533, pls. 94-120. February 26,
1988.

PUBLICATIONS OF THE BUREAU OF AMERICAN ETHNOLOGY

The editorial work of the bureau has continued under the immediate
direction of the editor, Stanley Searles. During the year one annual
report and three bulletins were issued as follows:

Fifty-fourth Annual Report of the Bureau of American Ethnology to the

Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, 1986-1937. 9 pp.
Bulletin 115. Journal of Rudolph Friederich Kurz. Edited by J. N. B. Hewitt.

882 pp., 48 pls.

Bulletin 116. Ancient caves of the Great Salt Lake region. By Julian H.
Steward. 131 pp., 1 map, 9 pls., 48 figs.

Bulletin 117. Historical and ethnographical material on the Jivaro Indians.
By M. W. Stirling. 148 pp., 1 map, 37 pls., 6 figs.

REPORT OF THE AMERICAN HISTORICAL ASSOCIATION

The annual reports of the American Historical Association are
transmitted by the association to the Secretary of the Smithsonian
Institution and are communicated by him to Congress, as provided by
the act of incorporation of the association.

The report for 1933 (Writings on American History) and the
report for 1936, volume 1, were issued during the year. The report
for 1937 and Writings on American History, 1934 and 1935, were in
press at the close of the year.

REPORT OF THE NATIONAL SOCIETY, DAUGHTERS OF THE AMERICAN
REVOLUTION

The manuscript of the Fortieth Annual Report of the National
Society, Daughters of the American Revolution, was transmitted to
Congress, in accordance with law, December 8, 1937.

ALLOTMENTS FOR PRINTING

The congressional allotments for the printing of the Smithsonian
Annual Reports to Congress and the various publications of the
120 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938

Government bureaus under the administration of the Institution were
virtually used up at the close of the year. The appropriation for
the coming year ending June 30, 1939, totals $67,000, allotted as
follows:

Smithsonian*institutions22 oss See ee See ees eee $17, 000
National: Museum. U2 {Se eh ee ee Se ee eee ee 29, 000
Bureauiol American Hthnologty. 2 ee eee 12, 000
International ixchanve «Services. 2 o— = ee ee ee ee eee 100
National’Zoological Park-28o 22) Bites Se 2 eae as ee Se ee 100
Astrophysical. ‘Observatory 22222228 eee SS eee 400
American: Historical Association === 222s) = oa eee 8, 000
Wational*Collection of Mine Arts 222-2 = see eee eee 400

Respectfully submitted.
W. P. True, Editor.
Dr. C. G. Azgort,
Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.
REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE OF
THE BOARD OF REGENTS OF THE SMITH-
SONIAN INSTITUTION

FOR THE YEAR ENDED JUNE 30, 1938

Lo the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution:

Your executive committee respectfully submits the following report
in relation to the funds of the Smithsonian Institution, together with
a statement of the appropriations by Congress for the Government
bureaus in the administrative charge of the Institution.

SMITHSONIAN ENDOWMENT FUND

The orginal bequest of James Smithson was £104,960 8s 6a—

$508,318.46. Refunds of money expended in prosecution of the

claim, freights, insurance, ete., together with payment into the

fund of the sum of £5,015, which had been withheld during the

lifetime of Madame de la Batut, brought the fund to the

PETA UUIE | OEERES SEE TAA fe OT ser Oe A Sits), oye eta $550, 000. 00
Since the original bequest the Institution has received gifts from

various sources chiefly in the years prior to 1893, the income

from which may be used for the general work of the Institution.
To these gifts has been added capital from Savings on income,

gain from sale of securities, ete., bringing the total endowment

for general purposes to the amount of_______.._.._._____ 1, 150, 703. 76

The Institution holds also a number of endowment gifts, the
income of each being restricted to specific use. These are invested
and stand on the books of the Institution as follows:

Abbott, William L., fund, bequest to the Institution_______________ $101, 108. 02
Arthur, James, fund, income for investigations and study of sun

ADE: eo RC US clsy {11 ale, Coes et ee a ee eee 39, 689. 18
Bacon, Virginia Purdy, fund, for a traveling scholarship to investi-

gate fauna of countries other than the United States____________ 49, 719. 73
Baird, Lucy H., fund, for creating a memorial to Secretary Baird__ 14, 225. 49
Barstow, Frederic D., fund, for purchase of animals for the

ROU O Re Ns Lair ie Ene eee apt eae ae A eee) th ae 754. &8
Canfield collection fund, for increase and care of the Canfield

Collection iar minerals. oie Se adi 8 Oe) a 37, 956. 16
Casey, Thomas L., fund, for maintenance of the Casey collection

and promotion of researches relating to Coleoptera______.______ 7, 669. 52
Chamberlain, Francis Lea, fund, for increase and promotion of

Isaac Lea collection of gems and mollusks_____..______. 27, 946. 29
Hillyer, Virgil, fund, for increase and care of Virgil Hillyer collection

De mehirines Ob ceist See Na ae ee ee a 6, 522. 24
Hitchcock, Dr. Albert S., Library fund, for care of Hitchcock Agro-

eer tee) ge eter yee ner Se ken sae eh erena nee ARON TUTE AVL 5 1, 190. 87

Hodgkins fund, specific, for increase and diffusion of more exact
knowledge in regard to nature and properties of atmospheric air__ 100, 000. 00

121
122 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938

Special research fund, gift, in form of real estate________________ $20, 946. 00
Hughes, Bruce, fund, to found Hughes alecove-___________________ 15, 034. 83
Myer, Catherine Walden, fund, for purchase of first-class works of

art for the use of, and benefit of, the National Gallery of Art_____ 18, 811. 84
Pell, Cornelia Livingston, fund, for maintenance of Alfred Duane

Pell collection. 22a 8 on We i Ee ee eee 2, 395. 18
Poore, Lucy T. and George W., fund, for general use of the Institu-

tion when principal amounts to the sum of $250,000______________ 71, 5385. 89
Reid, Addison T., fund, for founding chair in biology in memory of

ASIC UII S SS ee ee hes Ba eae ad ee ee oe re Se ee 28, 981. 48
Roebling fund, for care, improvement, and increase of Roebling col-

VOCE OW, OF mn it Sree Le a a a ee ts re 119, 764. 35
Rollins, Miriam and William, fund, for investigations in physics and

PA olesoants| pa eee eS 2 ee ee eee ee 92, 791. 56
Springer, Frank, fund, for care, etc., of Springer collection and

BUG 0310 yk eee ras eae t ea cae oe Ate ee tree ee re en Ue Oe 17, T96. 43

Walcott, Charles D., and Mary Vaux, research fund, for develop-
ment of geological and paleontological studies and publishing

TESUItS (UNeRCO fea Se ee es ee eee ee ee ee 10, 883. 24
Younger, Helen Walcott, fund, held in trust-___________________-_- 50, 112. 50
Zerbee, Frances Brincklé, fund, for endowment of aquaria________ 755. 28

Total endowment for specific purposes other than Freer en-
GOWMCit 8853 eee a bn te es ee 836, 590. 91

The capital funds of the Institution, except the Freer funds, are
invested as follows:

Consoli- Separate
Fund tees dated fund fund Total
ID DOGE AW See Serre Bo: NEE Ee ee Ob ee $101, 108. 02
JNet Hh eVOT RS UE: 90.6 (2 eee are aes eS eS ee eee ae pee eee 39, 689. 13
Bacon, Virpinia Purdy 2 aoe eee eee Sa ee eee 49, 719. 73
Baird pisnCys rane a en eee eee 14, 225, 49
Barstow, Hrederic) 1) 25 =. eee ae 754, 88
@anfieldicollection= ===. 22-222. =-=-- 37, 956. 16
@asey. Dhomas i722) ee eee 7, 669. 52
@ham ber) aint oes a aes ee ee E 27, 946. 29
ERT Or RViT ai ee eee Sere eee Dr eee een | ee eee ee 6, 522. 24
bi tehcock. Toi brary = aero) 2 eek a ee eee |b eh Te es 1, 190. 87
LOG EEINS WSHeCIhC nee a nese wae ae 100, 000. 00
Special'research---25-- eee Z 20, 946. 00
uechesw bruce 2 <- 2an ss se ee d 15, 034. 83
iver CatherineiwWeeo se cease eee ist ha eee ea ee 18, 811. 84
Pell ‘Cornelia Livingston se 255 eee See ee laa. Sa 23395.187)- see een 2, 395. 18
Poore, Lucy T., and George W___-.---------- 26, 44865. 8012s eae 71, 535. 89
Reid WAd dison hse se eee 11, 000 13, 481. 48 4, 500. 00 28, 981. 48
RVOeDLN Ee CoOMectign Sass Sie eR es Be ee 1197645 35a) 222 be ee 119, 764. 35
RollinissNeiriam) and wwWallidm see ee ee es | eer Pe 83, 291. 56 9, 500. 00 92, 791. 56
Smithsonian unrestricted:
SPCC a ee eee ae ee ae oe eas ar re a SR Tete! Bes Me eee 1, 400. 00 1, 400. 00
AV ORs) 7: MORE PES ESS Os Ee Fa ee EY 14,000 | 36, 953.44 |..-.......-- 50, 953. 44
EDPaG Ley each at eg a ee eae A oe ee ee (eS ee Dies siad | ee 211, 871. 12
18 0 ee a See eC ooo ee ee 5001 see ee | eee eee 500. 00
iachenbere: Sc< Se ee ee ae a ee 35090°90 xs eee. 3, 990. 90
TS Erb ecb} oye eS gk lS ates A a a Oe Sage he ae 2, 500 Z005G1 is eae ee ea 2, 900. 61
TERY Nyse ee ee eee ee oe mes ES 200R2 1 |e ese ee 1, 200. 21
Iodekinsi(cenoeral)-.e -  es ATGHOOON) 29: GOS 512i) eee ea 145, 993. 12
Parent 2 +22 Se ee Ek SOPs a, PT Se 727, 640 i Pgs bi Wie be fat ee 728, 851. 48
Un ERs RRS ee es ee ae ae ee ee 590 ACQIAT Weck ee 1, 059. 47
tS SEUTS (0) (3 bey es at ern et et es odie ey pty cepa oN 1, 100 sek ee: 9 I ee ee 1, 983. 41
Springers. 2 lee eee See FO gee) ee LY 96 843a| Hel ee oe 17, 796. 43
Walcott, Charlesip Sand Mary: Vaux. s- 200) a See ee 10388304 5/2 Sas eo 10, 883. 24
SVoOunCer SH elOn WV ECO bien oe ree a Ne SER ee eS 50, 112. 50 50, 112. 50
Zerbee; Hrances Brinckl6:-2-- ==. 2. one Ses eb Alo see Thala resi| pees meee 755. 28

Motaleve ;..- eh os Nae et a Se 1, 000, 000 | 867, 528.50 | 119,766.17 | 1, 987, 294. 67
REPORT OF EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE 123

CONSOLIDATED FUND

Statement of principal and income for the last 10 years
a a Ee ee i ee ee eee

Fiscal year Capital Income Percentage
O20 eae Le LINES ERI en hel yin fue pote? % $557, 056. 95 $28, 109. 56 5. 04
LOS EE eee ee ee ee ee ee Sen en et ray 578, 292. 40 28, 908. 87 5. 00
CR) eae See ee AC de eee on eee 668, 069. 02 28, 518. 07 4.27
USD PRESS beet oe ee ARE ee BP oe een a res 712, 156. 86 26, 142. 21 3. 67
Lit eas. oo ne Gr Mies 11 5 a Oy, Se nee 764, 077. 67 28, 185, 11 3. 68
Oe ee ee oe as Se ee ee ie te Be ee 754, 570. 84 26, 650. 32 3. 66
Ses a ee ee ee ee nae 706, 765. 68 26, 808. 86 3.79
LODGE es eos See ee A ek es Ae 723, 795. 46 26, 836. 61 3.71
LEY (SRE te ES eA OE ie a al Sea 738, 858. 54 33, 819. 43 4, 57
1998 oe os eo ER 867, 528. 50 34, 679. 64 4.00

FREER GALLERY OF ART FUND

Karly in 1906, by deed of gift, Charles L. Freer, of Detroit, gave
to the Institution his collection of Chinese and other oriental objects
of art, as well as paintings, etchings, and other works of art by
Whistler, Thayer, Dewing, and other artists. Later he also gave
funds for the construction of a building to house the collection, and
finally in his will, probated November 6, 1919, he provided stock and
securities to the estimated value of $1,958,591.42 as an endowment
fund for the operation of the gallery. From the above date to the
present time these funds have been increased by stock dividends,
savings of income, etc., to a total of $4,820,777.31. In view of the
importance and special nature of the gift and the requirements of the
testator in respect to it, all Freer funds are kept separate from the
other funds of the Institution, and the accounting in respect to them
is stated separately.

The invested funds of the Freer bequest are classified as follows:

Couri-and, Prowmds funds 63 a ete $540, 074. 68
Court and grounds maintenance fund_______________ 135, 782. 17
OUI NRTS gar arc enue 5 2 aa RO eS Se a ee ae 549, 589. 39
Rea ry Henney 2 ere dee o Yb eet tore te (Fa Ey gl ps eh Ts 3, 595, 331. 07
LUSTY SS Sa SI le eo SSeS PT nee nee AES 4, 820, 777. 31
SUMMARY
Invested endowment for general purposes_____..._____ $1, 150, 703. 76
Invested endowment for specific purposes other than Freer en-
ewe ib 2 eee eo | 836, 590. 91

Total invested endowment other than Freer endowment___ 1, 987, 294. 67
Freer invested endowment for specific DUTPOSeSe = Alas et ee 4, 820, 777. 31

Total invested endowment for all purposes_______________ 6, 808, 071. 98
124 | ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938

CLASSIFICATION OF INVESTMENTS

Deposited in the U. S. Treasury at 6 percent per annum, as au-

thorized in the United States Revised Statutes, sec. 5591______ $1, 000, 000. 00
Investments other than Freer endowment (cost or

market value at date acquired) :

Bonds|)(25, differentigroups)) == -2- $328, 855. 55
Stocks (50 different groups) —--= === 551, 406. 56
Real estate and first-mortgage notes________-__ 75, 053. 67
Uninvested icapital!= 22 = eee 31, 978. 89

—_———- 987, 294. 67

Total investments other than Freer endowment__-_---~---__ 1, 987, 294. 67

Investments of Freer endowment (cost or market
value at date acquired) :

Bonds (47 different groups) === $2, 172, 981. 47
Stocks (50 different groups) ------__-----_--_- 2, 449, 317. 39
Real estate first-mortgage notes__________--__ 9, 000. 00
Wninyested (capitales. tss6- sea et eee 189, 478. 45

—————_——_—— 4, 820, 777. 31

Total investments... 22227 S. 2h sks See ee Sea ee ee 6, 808, 071. 98

CASH BALANCES, RECEIPTS, AND DISBURSEMENTS DURING THE FISCAL YEAR a

@ashy balance’ onghand ‘June: sO 10st seas ee eee $354, 294. 70
Receipts:
Cash income from various sources for general
NAOH Ley CON PERN cVe}n GCI nub ce a eS ee ee $65, 636. 52
Cash gifts and contributions expendable for
special scientific objects (not to be invested)- 51, 032. 50
Cash gifts for special scientific work (to be
Invested ioc = a. Se ee te Dele es 44, 803. 58
Cash income from endowments for specific use
other than Freer endowment and from mis-
cellaneous sources (including refund of tem-

pOCOH SS EOE K WAX SS) Wee wa ee a pe ES ee eo 67, 369. 82
Cash received as royalties from Smithsonian
Scientific -Neries <2 520) 52 = eee 42, 195. 73
Cash capital from sale, call of securities, ete.
(toSberrein vested) =222222 ee eee. 67, 924. 33
Total receipts other than Freer endowment__----_---~_ 338, 962. 48
Cash receipts from Freer endowment, income
from imvestments; ete. 2-2-2 — sea weer tees $255, 651. 61
Cash capital from sale, call of securities, ete.
(tOMbe TEIN Vested) = eee a ail heh 544, 896. 45
Total receipts from Freer endowment____---_--------_--~ 800, 548. 06
TT tel tet 2 es ee ee oe Re ee 1, 498, 805. 24

1 This statement does not include Government appropriations under the administrative
charge of the Institution.
REPORT OF EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE

Disbursements :

From funds for general work of the Institution:
Buildings—care, repairs, and alterations__~
Hurnitures and, textures! 22s
General administration 72 222-=*- ==
GUO TAT ye ee ee ee eee Tees
Publications (comprising preparation, print-

ine wand! distribuvon) === -—
Researches and explorations_______________

From funds for specific use, other than Freer
endowment:

Investments made from gifts, from gain
from sale, ete., of securities and from
AaVINES AOnMINCGMes! ae Senses es ee

Other expenditures, consisting largely of re-
search work, travel, increase and care of
special collections, etc., from income of en-
dowment funds and from cash gifts for
specific use (including temporary ad-
VANCES) Se ae ees ES ae ee

Reinvestment of cash capital from sale, call
OL TSECUTILIES; CLOG 2 oes 2 ee Pe 3

Cost of handling securities, fee of invest-
ment counsel, and accrued interest on
DOHGS: DUTChaSeG= 2222s a ees eee Se

From Freer endowment:
Operating expenses of the gallery, salaries,
fieldrexpenses,, ChC =). =e ee
Purchase oriarcvOujecis..— =
Investments made from gain from sale, ete.,
of ‘Securities 20 Seti ey On Fh ste
Reinvestment of cash capital from sale, call
OF SPCUTIPES,+ Ch@i= 244 2 Pt
Cost of handling securities, fee of invest-
ment counsel, and accrued interest on
pouds* purchysed===—— as ees ee

Gash balance’ June sO) 1988s acer) eae ees a ee

if 0) tr) Lie ie SoS Sh Le ne ee oa e se eaae eae

2 This includes salary of the Secretary and certain others.

$3, 235. 62
225. 84

28, 540. 66
2, 224. OT

19, 314. 78
31, 446. 60

72, 893. 20

85, 822. 05

43, 772. 69

57, 859. 40
170, 039. 96

39, 559. 79

350, 924. 67

125

$84, 987. 57

204, 263. 44

638, 061. 54
566, 492. 69

1, 493, 805. 24
126 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938

EXPENDITURES FOR RESEARCHES IN PURE SCIENCE, PUBLICATIONS, EXPLORA-
TIONS, CARE, INCREASE, AND STUDY OF COLLECTIONS, ETC.

Expenditures from general funds of the Institution:

Publications___-------------—---------------—------ $19, 314. 75
Researches and explorations_~-~----~---—------------ 31, 446. 60
$50, 761. 38
Expenditures from funds devoted to specific purposes:
Researches and explorations_------—_-------------- 58, 400. 78
Care, increase, and study of special collections—_---- 10, 191. 15
Publications__------------------—---=-—-------—--- 1, 620. 96
70, 212. 89
Oo tag a ee ee 120, 974. 27

The practice of depositing on time in local trust companies and
banks such revenues as may be spared temporarily has been continued
during the past year, and interest on these deposits has amounted to
$903.14.

The Institution gratefully acknowledges gifts or bequests from the
following:

Friends of Dr. Albert S. Hitchcock, for establishment and care of the
Hitchcock Agrostological Library.

Research Corporation, further contributions for research in radiation.

John A. Roebling, further contributions for research in radiation.

Mrs. Mary Vaux Walcott, for purchase of certain specimens.

Laurence L. Wilson, for archeological investigations in Texas.

All payments are made by check, signed by the Secretary of the
Institution on the Treasurer of the United States, and all revenues
are deposited to the credit of the same account. In many instances
deposits are placed in bank for convenience of collection and later are
withdrawn in round amounts and deposited in the Treasury.

The foregoing report relates only to the private funds of the Insti-
tution.

The following annual appropriations were made by Congress for
the Government bureaus under the administrative charge of the
Smithsonian Institution for the fiscal year 1938:

Salaries and expenses_______——--—-——— == —— — $5 ne $36, 330
Taternational Tixchanges<- = —>-—---—— 5 — nn 44, 260
American Hithnology—————————-—_ — — — <r 58, 730
Astrophysical Observatory—---------------—-——--~=- == 30, 850
National Museum:
Maintenance and operation___------------------------ $144, 840
Preservation of collections__-------------------------- 609, 380
754, 220
National Collection of Fine Arts---------------------------------=- 34, 275
Printing and binding-__---_-------------------------—-——-—--—--——~ 65, 000
National Zoological Park_--—-------------------------------------~ 225, 000

REPORT OF EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE 127

The report of the audit of the Smithsonian private funds is printed
below:

SEPTEMBER 1, 1938.
EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE, BOARD OF REGENTS,
Smithsonian Institution, Washington, D. C.

Sirs: Pursuant to agreement we have audited the accounts of the Smithsonian
Institution for the fiscal year ended June 30, 1988, and certify the balance of cash
on hand, including Petty Cash Fund, June 30, 1988, to be $568,392.69.

We have verified the record of receipts and disbursements maintained by the
Institution and the agreement of the book balances with the bank balances.

We have examined all the securities in the custody of the Institution and in the
custody of the banks and found them to agree with the book records.

We have compared the stated income of such securities with the receipts of
record and found them in agreement therewith.

We have examined all vouchers covering disbursements for account of the
Institution during the fiscal year ended June 30, 1938, together with the authority
therefor, and have compared them with the Institution’s record of expenditures
and found them to agree.

We have examined and verified the accounts of the Institution with each trust
fund.

We found the books of account and records well and accurately kept and the
securities conveniently filed and securely cared for.

All information requested by your auditors was promptly and courteously
furnished.

We certify the balance sheet, in our opinion, correctly presents the financial
condition of the Institution as at June 30, 1938.

Respectfully submitted.

WILLIAM L. YAncER & Co.,
WILLIAM L, YAEGER,
Certified Public Accountant.

Respectfully submitted.

Frepertio A. DELANo,
R. Warron Moors,
JoHN C. Merriam,

Executive Committee.
GENERAL APPENDIX

TO THE

SMITHSONIAN REPORT FOR 1938

ee

ADVERTISEMENT

The object of the GrnrERAL ApprNnpiIx to the Annual Report of the
Smithsonian Institution is to furnish brief accounts of scientific
discovery in particular directions; reports of investigations made by
collaborators of the Institution; and memoirs of a general character
or on special topics that are of interest or value to the numerous
correspondents of the Institution.

It has been a prominent object of the Board of Regents of the
Smithsonian Institution from a very early date to enrich the annual
report required of them by law with memoirs illustrating the more
remarkable and important developments in physical and biological
discovery, as well as showing the general character of the operations
of the Institution; and, during the greater part of its history, this
purpose has been carried out largely by the publication of such
papers as would possess an interest to all attracted by scientific
progress.

In 1880, induced in part by the discontinuance of an annual sum-
mary of progress which for 30 years previously had been issued by
well-known private publishing firms, the secretary had a series of
abstracts prepared by competent collaborators, showing concisely
the prominent features of recent scientific progress in astronomy,
geology, meteorology, physics, chemistry, mineralogy, botany, zool-
ogy, and anthropology. This latter plan was continued, though not
altogether satisfactorily, down to and including the year 1888.

In the report for 1889 a return was made to the earlier method of
presenting a miscellaneous selection of papers (some of them origi-
nal) embracing a considerable range of scientific investigation and
discussion. This method has been continued in the present report
for 1938.

128
NEW CONCEPTIONS OF THE UNIVERSE AND OF MATTER!

By GABRIEL LOvUIS-JARAY

The principles of physics appear to have been entirely reconstructed
since the beginning of the twentieth century; because of experiments
made during the past 30 years, new ideas prevail in this science;
man is endeavoring to explain the universe, the atom, matter, light
according to conceptions essentially different from those of the nine-
teenth century.

Louis de Broglie asserts that the introduction into physics in 1900
of the observations of Planck marks ‘‘one of the most important
moments in the evolution of contemporaneous science.”’? In pro-
moting that evolution a great number of French scholars have labored
and the “Palace of Discovery” exhibits some of their researches.

The efforts of physicists have been directed especially toward the
study of the infinitely small and of the infinitely large: Astrophysi-
cists have pushed their stellar observations to extraordinary distances
and atomic physics has succeeded in revealing the orbit of an element
of matter of which 10 million could be placed end to end in a milli-
meter. In one case as in the other, these studies require the use of
a laboratory equipment that can only be attained with an infinite
amount of care, time, and money. ‘This is one of the reasons which
explain why so many years were needed to bring out the new dis-
coveries, a glimpse of which we will try to present.

The older physics was founded upon the existence of simple ele-
ments, not transmutable, of which today there are 92. Alchemy and
the older physics had failed in the search for unity in matter.

The new physics considers that matter is composed of atoms all
formed essentially of two parts: A nucleus, called a proton, around
which revolves one or several corpuscles called electrons; the most
simple element is hydrogen, of which the nucleus is formed of a single
proton, around which a single electron revolves; by changing the
number and the arrangement of these two elements of the atom we
obtain the 92 simple elements. Efforts to transmute artificially
from one element to another have succeeded. Thus the new physics
is founded upon a real unity of matter.

1 Translated by permission from Mercure de France, vol. 283, No. 956, April 15, 1938.

2 Louis de Broglie: Matiére et lumiére, Paris, Albin Michel, p. 278, 1937.
129
130 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938

Nevertheless, there is uncertainty regarding the elements of this
unity. It was thought until very recently that all atoms could be
reduced to a nucleus composed of protons of positive electricity (each
proton having a mass 2,000 times greater than an electron) and of
electrons of negative electricity; the infinitely small atom appeared
to be asup in miniature with his planet or planets, and matter seemed
composed of electrified particles oscillating in space; Thibaut, director
of the institute of atomic physics of the University of Lyon, supposes,
in order to visualize the atom, that the atom of hydrogen be as big
as the whole of Paris; the nucleus would be the size of the Arc de
Triomphe, the electron would be represented by a billiard ball situated
in the Place de la Concorde and the remainder of the atom would be
empty space.®

But in these last years, the profound studies of matter from every
angle have more and more complicated the problem. Much uncer-
tainty exists; in effect man has discovered: First, an electron of posi-
tive electricity (called a positron), very difficult to obtain, which
scarcely born, seems to unite with other particles; its size is similar
to that of the negative electron, of which it is the brother; second, a
particle called the neutron, thus named because it is not electrified;
it is analogous to the proton in mass (2,000 times that of the electron)
and sometimes unites with the nucleus of the atom; third, a fifth
mysterious particle called a neutrino, because it is not electrified; it
is neutral like the neutron, but with a mass as small as the electron,
perhaps even smaller and almost negligible.

Our impression is that the new physics is still in its infancy. Some
physicists conceive of matter as electrified particles surrounded by
empty space; Thibaud asks whether the neutron cannot be separated
into two corpuscles, one positive and the other negative, and whether
the “hypothetical neutrino,” as he calls it, would not be the accom-
paniment of such a breaking up.* Louis de Broglie looks with more
favor on the breaking up of the proton into neutron and positive
electron.> Thus, according to this last authority, the atom and
matter are compounded of three elements: neutrons, not electrified,
possessing nearly all the mass, negative electrons and positive elec-
trons both of very small mass but electrified.

Nevertheless, the new physics is plainly built upon the idea of the
unity of matter.

3 Physicists and astrophysicists know but little about empty space in the atom or between celestial
bodies; they no longer believe in the “‘ether’’ of Fresnel. The astronomer Esclangon conceives space not as
nothingness but as an entity, furrowed with radiations, composed perhaps of unknown elements which
constitute a substratum of matter and radiation, capable of reactions similar to those of matter.

‘ Thibaud, Jean, Vie et transmutation des atomes, p. 110, Paris, Albin Michel, 1937.
§ Matiére et lumiére, p. 32.
THE UNIVERSE AND MATTER—LOUIS-JARAY 131

The new physics differs essentially from the old in other respects:
The old mechanics had its dogmas; no velocity could be greater than
that of light; no temperature could be less than zero degrees absolute;
matter could not be destroyed, etc.; this last law is no longer recog-
nized. Most of the outstanding physicists, such as Eddington, admit
“the annihilation of matter’ though it seems apparently supernatural.
One experiment shows that pairs of positive and negative electrons
are destroyed and produce pairs of photons of light, and in the opposite
sense the photons ® produce pairs of positive and negative electrons;
the first case appears to be a “‘dematerialization”’ and the second case
a ‘“materialization,” if the electrons are very small corpuscles but
material parts of the atom and if the photons, that is the radiations,
are not material corpuscles. Thus, says Einstein, in place of the
principle of the conservation of matter and of the conservation of
energy, it is necessary to substitute a simple principle of equivalence,
that of the ‘‘conservation of something,’ but permitting the con-
version of matter into energy and energy into matter. An example
shows this new conception in concrete fashion: An atom of helium
is formed from four atoms of hydrogen; but the mass of the helium is
less by a small quantity than the sum of four atoms of hydrogen;
this small quantity of matter has changed into energy and the clamp-
ing together of the four atoms has liberated, it is said, 27 millions of
volts; thus the loss of mass, or loss of matter, is compensated, accord-
ing to the principle of equivalence, by the creation of energy.

Thibaud interprets the results of such experiments as just described
by conceiving that it is the continuous destruction of matter in the
sun which liberates the luminous radiation.’ In any case one can
imagine throughout the universe the transformation of atoms of
sidereal bodies into radiation, as in radioactivity, or the transforma-
tion of radiation into matter as in the experiment with photons of
gamma rays.

One difficulty remains: We do not know with certainty what the
“photons” are, i. e., what light is. Louis de Broglie some 10 years
ago conceived, and soon the new physics adopted, his ‘‘wave mechan-
ics,” applied first to light and then to all forms of energy. Newton
asserted that light consisted of an emission of corpuscles, Fresnel
that it consisted of waves in a tenuous medium, the ether, the existence
of which modern physicists doubt, Louis de Broglie reunited the two
theories and declared that what happens is wave motion and emission
at the same time, light waves and the projection of corpuscles of light,
called photons. Passing from light to matter, he asserted that it is
necessary to link together the idea of a wave with the movement of
material particles of the atom; the displacement of the material

§ In the experiment, the photons are produced by a radiation called gamma rays.
7 Vie et transmutation des atomes, p. 55.

114728—39 10

132 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938

corpuscles is associated with a certain periodic phenomenon called a
wave.

According to physicists, this generalized hypothesis to account for
light and matter by wave mechanics explains all the recent experiments
which the older physics failed to explain. But it makes a great
mystery of physics; in a memoire, written in collaboration by Maurice
de Broglie and Louis de Broglie, we read that the photon is a corpuscle
of light whose nature remains very mysterious: Wave mechanics
associates with motion “‘the consideration of a wave, without physical
reality, but which can be predicted.” °

In any case, in the new physics, to the idea of the unity of matter
and of the interchangeability of energy and matter, it is necessary to
add the idea that, for light and for matter, one must always ‘‘consider
both the corpuscular aspect and the wave aspect, bound together by
the same general relations’’;® we come thus to the “unitarian theory
of matter and of light’’; Louis de Broglie obtains this unity by the
hypothesis that the neutrino, the last born of the constituent particles
of matter, a corpuscle as small as or smaller than the electron and
having “zero or at least a negligible charge in comparison with that
of an electron,’ may be one of two constituents of the photon, the
other being another corpuscle; he calls the neutrino a demiphoton;”
but if the neutrino has a “physical entity”? the photon becomes a
material corpuscle and not simply a corpuscle of immaterial light.

We perceive, by these simple indications, to what extent the new
physics is still mysterious and how it tends toward unity. It gives
at times the impression that all material reality, in the older sense of
the word, has disappeared and in its place there is substituted that
which one might call a unique substance having corpuscular atomic
form and possessing interchangeable attributes of mass and of energy.
It seems to lead thus to a kind of materialistic ‘‘monism,” outside of
which the mysteries of life and of mind exist.

In short, the new physics is distinguished from the old in that it
adopts conceptions which destroy the rigorous and universal determin-
ism of mechanics and the principle of continuity.

Atomic physics, it tells us, shows a discontinuous reality, with
abrupt transitions, which can only be explained ‘“‘by the artifice of
waves associated” with the motions of corpuscles. The introduction
into physics, says Louis de Broglie, about 1900, by Planck, of the
quantum of action and of the constant “th” is the origin of the change
of view; let us then analyze each of these two new ideas.

The “quanta” of Planck can be roughly explained by indicating
that the radiation of atoms is not continuous; apparently the energy

8 Matiére et lumiére, pp. 59 and 60.

® Matiére et lumiére, p. 147.
10 Op. cit., p. 153 and following.
THE UNIVERSE AND MATTER—LOUIS-JARAY 183

accumulates until a certain quantity is stored up; when this quantity
is reached, the radiation is emitted. Thus the radiation emanating
from the atom is not considered as a continuous outpouring, but as a
discontinuous emission of grains. Innumerable experiments since
1900 have shown that this quantity, called a ‘quantum,’ is propor-
tional to the frequency of the radiation and not to its intensity.
Maurice de Broglie has invented an apparatus for measuring the veloc-
ity of corpuscles (electrons) torn away from matter by the action of
X-rays, which gives an experimental test of this ‘““quantum”’ theory of
Planck." Physics is thus thrown into confusion by the substitution
in the microscopic domain of the principle of discontinuity in place of
the principle of continuity.

Leibnitz said that nature does not make jumps: Natura non facit
saltus; in the world of atoms, modern physics perceives nothing but
jumps. Atomic physics limits itself to uncovering the laws which
govern these jumps; it observes only the value, the quantum of energy;
it seeks to calculate the probability that an atomic system existing at
a given moment will find itself subsequently in such or such other
state; and atomic physics finds that these laws are only the laws of
probability. From the moment that one starts with the discontinuous
action of elementary corpuscles of matter and of light, one cannot
know whether at a given moment one of these corpuscles has or ought
to have a certain precise position in space or a certain strictly defined
motion; atomic physics declares it is impossible “‘to predict the future
motion of a corpuscle of an atom.’”’ Indetermination is substituted for
determinism; it is the ‘‘constant h”’ of Planck, the “‘uncertainty prin-
ciple of Heinsenberg.”’ All the experiments relative to ‘“‘quanta”’ for
30 years are affected by an unknown, an indeterminate element that
must be introduced to make the calculations succeed. This indeter-
minate constant has been represented by h, and it is even to this day
susceptible of no interpretation. All the determinism of the mechanics
of Newton is thus as if undermined at its base. ‘The significance (of
this constant),’”’ says Louis de Broglie, “‘has been for 30 years and still
is today the enigma of modern physics; it has remained the undefinable
syllable in nature’s cross-word puzzle.” This fundamental indeter-
minism appears as a sort of free choice of nature, escaping thus from
the rigorous law of mechanics.

It is scarcely necessary to add that this introduction of discontinuity
and indeterminism into physics is valid for the whole universe; but
the indeterminate constant, represented by h in the calculations, is
very small. Consequently, in the phenomena having to do with man
or the stars, it is negligible. A margin of uncertainty always exists,
but since it is less than the unavoidable errors which affect all observa-

11 Vie et transmutation des atomes, p. 164; the application of this effect called ‘‘photoelectric” is utilized in
television and in moving picture talking films.
134 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938

tions, determinism is apparently maintained. In a way, the older
physics remains approximately exact for man and for heavenly bodies;
but it is powerless to determine at the same time with exactitude the
position and velocity of an electron at a given moment and to predict
with certainty its rigorously determined motion; discontinuity and
indeterminism are integral parts of the atomic world.

Astrophysicists and physicists who study atomic structure must
use their imagination; it is imagination which leads to experimentation
and interpretation. Butit is necessary at the same time to be prudent
in this respect; the ascribed interpretations are usually afterward
rejected.

New ideas can only be accepted as a result of conclusive and repeated
experiment. Especially is it necessary always to distinguish care-
fully between the results of experiments and the interpretation given
these results.

Thus, in astrophysics, since the work of Hubble in 1925, we con-
sider that the spiral nebulae visible through our telescopes are island
universes, analogous to the universe of which the earth, the sun, the
Milky Way, and all the ordinary stars are a part and which we call
“the galaxy.”

The velocities of about 100 of these distant spiral nebulae are
believed to have been determined, principally with the aid of the large
Mount Wilson telescope; it appears from this work that all are moving
away from us and with velocities as great as one-seventh of the velocity
of light. Moreover, Hubble presented in 1929 a law according to
which the velocity of recession is proportional to the distance; each
increase of 1 million light-years in distance increases the velocity of
recession by 170 kilometers per second. ‘Thus all the galaxies appear
to be running away from each other; they are fleeing from each other
with increasing speed; it is this conclusion which gives us the term
“the expanding universe,” and suggests to us that the universe has
doubled its radius in less than 2 billion years.’ But when the galaxies
will have attained a velocity as great as that of light, they can never
be seen by man, for light rays from them will be unable to reach the
earth. This will mean an unfathomable universe.

Of course, this interpretation rests upon the shift of lines in the
spectra of spiral nebulae examined through the Mount Wilson tele-
scope. Who can say that this shift of spectral lines will not soon be
interpreted differently? The study of spectra is sufficiently mysteri-
ous for the whole interpretation to be taken with reservations. 0
Moreover, the strangest feature about Hubble’s law is that it assumes

12 See Paul Coudere, Univers 1937, Paris, Editions rationalistes, 1937.
13 The astronomer Esclangon, for example, does not agree that light is absolutely constant and believes

that measures relative to the light of stars are different from terrestrial measures; these conceptions, moreover,
may be connected with those relating to interstellar space.
THE UNIVERSE AND MATIER—LOUIS-JARAY 135

for distant galaxies in no way related to our galaxy, any law whatso-
ever which governs the life of all galaxies by comparison with our own.

One other hypothesis of astrophysicists seeks to solve the contradic-
tion between the finite and the infinite; they call it the “curved uni-
verse.” Curvature, sphericity, is to be the law of matter. The
universe is shaped like an immense sphere, an enormous bubble; all
radiation follows a curve; light coming to us from distant galaxies is
bent. In consequence, light from a star ought to arrive at the earth
from two opposite sides, from one side by the direct curve and from
the other by making the complete circuit of the sphere. Let us await
experimental proof that the propagation of radiation, energy, or
light is not in a straight line but a curved path.

Without letting ourselves be carried away by imagination, let us
realize that the tests of the past 30 years have led physicists to modify
entirely their conceptions of the world, of light, of matter, of energy,
of the universe. The infinitely great and the infinitely small seem
immeasurable; they are not of the same order of magnitude as man.
The mind asks, at each stage, whether these discoveries are not only
symbols, constructions of the mind, whether they correspond to some-
thing entirely objective. At every moment one is tempted to say:
“This happens as if’; but one dares only say: ‘“This happens thus.”
At any rate, the new physics is the creator of mysteries. ‘These are
mysteries: The microscopic and the macroscopic, the indeterminism,
the discontinuity, elements which change from one substance into
another with the disappearance of part of their mass, the conversion of
matter into energy and energy into matter. In place of the older,
rigid mechanics, with the unalterable conservation of matter, with
all motion determinate, with elements whose positions and velocities
were known repeating themselves in ‘‘the form and motion” of Des-
cartes, there is substituted anew physics which is directed by new views
concerning the unity of matter and light, the principle of equivalence
including the conversion of energy into matter and matter into energy,
the introduction of discontinuity and indeterminism by wave ma-
chanics. These views completely change our conceptions of the
exterior world and of the universe.
THE NATURE OF THE NEBULAE!

By Epwin HussLe

[With one plate]

The exploration of space is an achievement of great telescopes.
Men first studied the heavens with their naked eyes. They recog-
nized and described the solar system—the central sun with its family
of planets—and the discovery is one of the great intellectual feats of
the race. But beyond the planets lay the stars. They were too
distant for reliable investigation, and their nature remained a subject
of sheer speculation.

For the human eye, with all its perfection, is necessarily a small
instrument; the aperture of the fully opened pupil is only a fifth of an
inch. Many an astronomer, in those early days, must have dreamed
of a giant’s eye that would collect more light, penetrate more deeply
into the universe around us. And eventually, that incredible dream
materialized. Just 330 years ago the telescope, newly invented, was
pointed toward the sky, and the way for exploration on the grand
scale was suddenly opened. Galileo, as Kepler wrote to him, had
scaled the very walls of heaven.

The centuries that followed were crowded with investigations that
led to the formulation of modern astronomy. ‘Telescopes and their
accessories developed and, with each advance, new fields were opened.
The nature of the stars was established. The sun itself was definitely
recognized as a star, and earlier speculation on the subject was thus
confirmed. The many millions of stars, it was found, are not scat-
tered indefinitely through the universe; they form an isolated system.
This swarm of stars, this stellar system, drifts through space. From
our position somewhere within the system, we look out through the
swarm of stars, past the borders, into the universe beyond.

Telescopes have continued to develop until today we are exploring
those outer regions. They are inhabited by stellar systems compar-
able with our system of the Milky Way. ‘Those other systems are
the extragalactic nebulae. We find them scattered thinly through
space out as far as telescopes can reach. They are gigantic beacons,
permitting us to survey and study a sample of the universe. Even-

1 Public lecture delivered in San Francisco, Monday evening, March 21, 1938, on the occasion of the

presentation of the Bruce Gold Medal of the Astronomical Society of the Pacific. Reprinted by permission
from The Publications of the Astronomical Society of the Pacific, vol. 50, No. 293, April 1938.

137
138 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938

tually, if the sample is fair, we may be able to infer the nature of the
universe as a whole from the observed characteristics of the sample
available for inspection. This possibility is the ultimate goal of the
explorations of space. The sample must be fair, and the characteris-
tics must be determined with precision. How near we are to the
realization of these conditions, we do not know, but we like to believe
that the new telescope—the 200-inch reflector destined for Mount
Palomar—may furnish an answer.

Meanwhile it is imperative to learn as much as possible with existing
instruments, concerning the nature of the inhabitants of space. The
nebulae are the landmarks that must necessarily be used in the general
study. The more intimately we know their characteristics—their
luminosities, dimensions, masses, structures and contents—the more
reliably can we interpret the reports of the final surveys.

Our present information is still fragmentary, but by piecing bits
together we can construct a fairly coherent picture. The nebulae, it
is found, are all members of a single family. The forms vary widely
but they fall readily into a sequence which represents the progressive
variation of a single fundamental pattern. ‘Thus it is possible to
reduce the nebulae to a standard type, and to study them as one
homogeneous group; or, it is possible to select conspicuous, neighboring
nebulae, and to present them as typical examples of the family. In
the discussion which follows, the latter alternative will be adopted.

THE LOCAL GROUP

On the grand scale, the nebulae are scattered more or less at ran-
dom; one large volume of space is much like another. Nevertheless,
the small scale distribution is quite irregular, and presents many
analogies with the distribution of stars. Thus we find isolated
nebulae, multiples, groups, clusters, and, possibly, clouds. Our own
stellar system is the chief component of a triple nebula, the Magel-
lanic Clouds playing the role of satellites. The great neighboring
spiral in Andromeda is also favored with two satellites. These two
triple systems, together with four or five other nebulae, form a loose
group more or less isolated in the general field. ‘The local group has
played an important role in the development of nebular research for
it furnished a small sample collection of nebulae so near that their
brighter stars could be studied with existing telescopes. These stars,
and, in particular, the Cepheid variables, furnished the criteria which
established the scale of distances, and thereby opened the realm of
the nebulae to actual exploration.
THE NATURE OF THE NEBULAE—HUBBLE 139

MESSIER 31

Except for our own stellar system, the most conspicuous member of
the local group is the great spiral in Andromeda, M31, with its two
satellites, M32 and NGC205. The spiral can be seen with the naked
eye as a faint cloud about half the size of the moon, and with a total
luminosity equal to that of a fourth- or fifth-magnitude star. When
photographed with telescopes, the cloud takes shape as an elliptical
object whose long diameter is above five times that of the moon, and
whose ratio of axes is about 3 or4to1. The central region is relatively
bright but the luminosity fades outward to poorly defined edges. The
spiral pattern has never been seen with any telescope, although it is
easily recognized on the photographic plate. The image increases
with the focal length of the telescope, ranging from perhaps a quarter-
inch with small kodaks to about 6 feet at the Cassegrain focus of the
100-inch refiector. Thus, with powerful instruments, the nebula must
be explored section by section. Our detailed information, at present,
is restricted to selected areas, chosen for specific purposes. Photo-
graphs show a semistellar nucleus of about the fourteenth magnitude,
surrounded by a central region of structureless, unresolved nebulosity,
from which two arms emerge on opposite sides and wind outward to
form the spiral pattern. The general pattern is repeated over and
over among the fainter nebulae in the sky, and the variations are
largely concerned with the relative amount of luminous material in
the arms as compared with that in the central region. On the basis
of this criterion, the normal spirals fall into a progressive sequence with
M31 near the middle. In other words, M31 is a typical example of
the intermediate type spirals. By analogy with other members of the
class, we may safely conclude that the elliptical form of the image is an
effect of foreshortening. The fundamental plane of the thin lens-
shaped spiral is tilted about 15° from the line of sight.

The outer regions of the spiral arms, in contrast to the nuclear region,
are partially resolved into separate stars—presumably the brighter
giants and supergiants of a stellar system comparable with our own
galactic system. On this assumption, the unresolved portions of the
arms and the nuclear region consist of swarms of stars too faint to be
seen individually. The fragmentary data now available, such as the
stellar outbursts called novae, and the solar-type spectrum, are
thoroughly consistent with this interpretation. The recognition of
stars in the outer regions was the clue which solved the mystery of the
distance. Various types of stars were recognized which are well
known in our own system. Among other characteristics, we knew
their intrinsic luminosities, or candlepowers, and, consequently, their
apparent faintness indicated the distance of the nebula in which they
were located. Once the distance (about 700,000 light-years) was
140 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938

determined, the real dimensions of the system were readily calculated
from the apparent dimensions.

The main body of the spiral, the portion that is conspicuous on well-
exposed photographs, has a diameter of about 35,000 to 40,000 light-
years, and a total luminosity of the order of 1,000 million suns.
Extremely faint outer regions, whose existence can be detected by
refined methods of investigation, more than double the over-all diam-
eter, and add perhaps 60 percent to the luminosity. Thus, the spiral is
revealed as a giant nebula, the greatest of all those whose individual
distances are known, and comparable with the galactic system itself.
It is surprising and even disturbing to find the two greatest known
systems both within the local group but, on the basis of our present
information, the conclusion seems unavoidable. To this extent we
seem to inhabit a favored position in the universe.

The mass of so immense a system as M31 must also be abnormally
large, although the precise quantity has not been determined. The
spiral is rotating, and the speed of rotation can be measured with the
spectrograph, but, as Zwicky has shown, such data alone do not furnish
an unambiguous value of the mass—they may suggest, at best, only a
lower limit. The relative, presumably orbital motions of the satellites
bear directly on the problem, but we can measure only one component
(namely, that in the line of sight) and, moreover, the planes of the
orbits together with the protection factors are unknown. Finally, we
can suppose that, among stellar systems in general, there exists a
characteristic relation between total mass and total luminosity which
may be evaluated with the aid of data from the galactic system. This
method also is uncertain because it involves several unverified assump-
tions such as the detailed similarity of stellar contents and the ratio of
dark to luminous material. Nevertheless, the different methods,
none of them individually reliable, agree in suggesting a mass of the
general order of 100,000 million suns, and we are inclined to believe
that the number of ciphers is about correct.

MESSIER 32

The two satellites of the giant spiral are both fainter than the
average nebula, and one of them, NGC205, is one of the faintest of
the known dwarfs. In other words, the triple system covers practi-
cally the whole observed range in total luminosities, namely, six
magnitudes, or about 1 to 250. The brighter satellite, M32, is
superposed on the outer arm of the main spiral, about 24’ south of
the nucleus. The actual location in the line of sight is a matter of
speculation. M32 is not a spiral but is a typical example of an
elliptical nebula (E2) with a ratio of axes about 8 to 10. It exhibits
no structure save for the smooth fading of the luminosity from the
THE NATURE OF THE NEBULAE—HUBBLE 14}

nucleus outward to undefined borders. The size of the image in-
creases steadily with exposure times (the isophotal contours remaining
similar ellipses), as far as the exposures have been pushed. Although
the dimensions have little meaning apart from the observing condi-
tions, the values usually quoted are a major diameter of 4’ or 800
light-years, and a total luminosity of the order of 20 million suns.
The values refer to the conspicuous portion of the image on well-
exposed photographs.

Very short exposures with the 100-inch telescope show a round,
semistellar nucleus, about 2” in diameter and about 13.4 magnitude.
This diameter merely reflects the resolving power of the photographic
plate, for visual examination shows a still smaller nucleus. Sinclair
Smith, using an interferometer on the 100-inch, found no trace of a
strictly stellar center, and concluded that the true nucleus is probably
a globular mass with a diameter of perhaps 0"8, or about 2 light-years.
The concentration of luminosity within such a nucleus would be
somewhat greater than that in the central region of the most compact
globular cluster—in other words, not inconsistent with the assump-
tion that the nebula is a system of stars.

The nucleus of M32 has been described at some length because, as
far as observations go, it appears to be typical of nebulae in general,
and, being relatively near, can be studied in greater detail. The
nucleus of our own system is presumably hidden behind dark obscur-
ing clouds in the Milky Way. Baade, using red-sensitive plates and
heavy filters, has partially penetrated the clouds, and, in the direction
of the galactic center and at latitude 4°, has recorded a star-density
which is of the order of 800,000 per square degree. Such a density
at perhaps 2,000 light-years from the actual center requires no un-
reasonable extrapolation to suggest a nuclear density comparable
with those in M32 and M31.

Since the satellite is superposed on the outer, partially resolved
region of the main spiral, the search for individual stars is somewhat
confused. It can be stated that there is no definite trace of resolu-
tion in the satellite, and, consequently, there are probably no super-
giants in the system. The available photographs probably establish
this conclusion down to I/=—2, and possibly to M=—1. Never-
theless, Sinclair Smith’s investigations indicate that the assumption
of a stellar constitution offers the most plausible and consistent
working hypothesis that has been formulated. Thus we are pre-
sented with the problem of a stellar system in which supergiants
are not present.

The problem assumes general significance because the satellite
closely resembles the nuclear region of the main spiral in color and
spectrum as well as texture, and both nebulae, as previously men-
tioned, are typical examples of their classes. The spiral exhibits a
142 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938

complementary distribution—supergiants in the outer region, dwarfs
and (possibly) giants in the nuclear region. Among nebulae in
general, the relative distribution varies systematically through the
sequence of structural forms, the supergiants working inward as the
spirals unwind. The characteristic behavior offers a possible observa-
tional approach to the fundamental question of nebular evolution,
the first problem being a study of the systematic variation in stellar
contents of nebulae along the sequence of forms. This problem
requires the greatest possible light-gathering power and will be espe-
cially suitable for the 200-inch reflector when that telescope is com-
pleted. Meanwhile, the preliminary investigations are carried on
with the 100-inch, and some of the results for M31 will presently
be discussed.
NGC205

First, however, some mention should be made of the third member
of the triple system, the fainter satellite, NGC205. It lies about 37’
north preceding the nucleus of the main spiral, almost exactly along
the minor axis. As in the case of M32, the actual position in the line
of sight is wholly speculative. However, the radial velocity is
appreciably the same as that of the spiral, and, consequently, the
orbital motion must be almost entirely across the line of sight. This
situation is consistent with the assumption that the satellite may lie
close to the fundamental plane of the spiral. The distance between
the two nuclei would then be of the order of 30,000 light-years, and
the satellite would be located within the extremely faint, tenuous,
outer extensions of the spiral.

NGC205 is a nondescript system. In form and general texture, it
resembles an elliptical type (E5) with a ratio of axes about 2 to 1,
but the concentration toward the center is very low, small obscuring
clouds are involved, and several individual stars and small nebulous
objects (presumably globular clusters) seem to be associated with the
satellite. The dimensions, as usual, vary with exposures, but the
diameters are generally quoted as 8’ <4’ or 1,600 X 800 light-years, and
the total luminosity as about 7 million suns.

STELLAR CONTENTS OF MESSIER 31
OBSCURATION

Since the two satellites are unresolved, the main spiral alone offers
an opportunity to examine the stellar contents of a nebula. The
investigation reveals many analogies with the galactic system, con-
sistent with the current picture of our own nebula as a spiral at a
stage in the sequence somewhat later than M31. One of the most
conspicuous features is the great amount of obscuration. The
THE NATURE OF THE NEBULAE—HUBBLE 143

extreme north following end of the spiral is lightly veiled, and the
central half of the nebula, north preceding the major axis, is fainter
than the south following half. The latter feature is frequently used
in attempts to determine the true orientation—to identify the side of
the nebula which is nearest the observer. The question is still un-
answered, and with it another fundamental question concerning the
direction of rotation—whether the spiral is ‘‘winding up” or “un-
winding.”

In addition to the veiling of large areas, many obscuring clouds
are scattered over the nebula. The absorption has not been meas-
ured, but it seems hkely that the ‘‘all or none” principle is approxi-
mated. On the one hand, certain clouds seem to exhibit complete
absorption and, moreover, the spiral obscures the faint, distant, back-
ground nebulae in a very conspicuous manner. On the other hand,
stars of various known types, widely scattered over the spiral, exhibit
only the normal dispersion about their mean luminosities, and the
behavior suggests that the systematic effects of absorption on these
particular stars are either negligible or curiously uniform. The ques-
tion of absorption is important and deserves further investigation,
for it is one of the factors involved in the precise determination of
the distance of the nebula. At present the effect is ignored in the
calculations but is recognized as an uncertainty which operates in a
specific direction.

STAR CLOUDS AND OPEN CLUSTERS

The upper limit of stellar luminosities in M31 is probably of the
order of M=—6, or somewhat fainter than the corresponding limit
in the galactic system. Stars brighter than M=—5 are not numerous,
but thereafter the numbers increase rapidly with diminishing lumi-
nosity as would be expected in a great stellar system. The distribu-
tion of the supergiants (the only stars which can be studied individu-
ally) follows the spiral arms much as, in our own system, they follow
the Milky Way. Star clouds are conspicuous; one, for instance, was
listed in the early catalogs as a separate nebula, NGC206. Open
clusters are also found, and in at least one case a typical A-type
spectrum has been recorded. Emission nebulosities (of the type of
the Orion nebula) have not been recognized; but such objects are
known to be a characteristic feature of later type spirals, and their
absence in M31 is expected.

CEPHEIDS

Three types of objects have been found in large numbers and
studied in some detail, namely, Cepheid variables, novae, and globular
clusters. The first Cepheid was discovered in 1923; systematic
144 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938

investigations during the next 5 years increased the number to 40,
and a dozen or more have since been added to the list. The light-
curves are typical and the periods, with one outstanding exception
(P=175 days), range from 48 to 10 days. The data exhibit the fa-
miliar relation between periods and mean, or maximum, luminosities—
the famous period-luminosity relation—by virtue of which the
Cepheids furnish the best available criterion of great distances.
Wherever we find Cepheids, their periods indicate their intrinsic
luminosities (candlepowers) and, consequently, their apparent faint-
ness measures their distances. For instance, the known Cepheids in
M31, as indicated by their periods, average about 1,800 times as
bright as the sun, but they appear about 200,000 times fainter than
the faintest stars seen with the naked eye.

The distance of M31 would be rather accurately determined by
this method if it were not for the uncertain effects of obscuration,
both in the galactic system and in the spiral. The main body of the
galactic system appears to be embedded in a widespread, tenuous
medium (often called the uniform layer), and, of course, many clouds
of dust and gas are scattered through the system, concentrating
toward the fundamental plane of the Milky Way. From our posi-
tion within the system, and close to the galactic plane, we observe
distant nebulae through the surrounding haze and between the
obscuring clouds. The absorption is greatest in and near the Milky
Way, and diminishes toward the galactic poles. But the effects are
not strictly uniform as we look around the sky at a given galactic
latitude, and the calculated corrections, at present, represent average
values which may not be precise for a particular direction.

Now M31 is seen near the edge of the Milky Way at latitude 20°.
The average obscuration at this latitude is about 0.48 magnitude (55
percent) but the proper correction might be considerably different.
Actually, the large numbers of very faint, distant nebulae found in the
vicinity of M31 suggest that the region is more transparent than nor-
mal. A cloud, or real aggregation of the background nebulae, would
produce the same phenomenon, and it is quite possible that both effects
are present. However, an examination of the data leads to the pro-
visional conclusion that abnormal transparency is the dominating
factor, and, consequently, the effect will be partially compensated by
minor obscuration within the spiral. These remarks sufficiently
indicate that the precise effect of obscuration is an unsolved problem.
For the present, it is advisable to apply the average correction for
galactic latitude, and to recognize an uncertainty of the order of 10
to 25 percent in the resulting distance.

The direct procedure is then to compare the many Cepheids in M31
with those in the Small Magellanic Cloud which serves as a unit of
extragalactic distance. Taking account of the average galactic ob-
THE NATURE OF THE NEBULAE—HUBBLE 145

scuration in the two directions, we find that the Cepheids in M31
average about 4.3 magnitudes fainter than Cepheids with correspond-
ing periods in the Cloud. Therefore, the relative distances are about
7.2 to 1. Since the current value for the distance of the Cloud is
95,000 light-years, the distance of the spiral is about 700,000 light-
years, subject to the previously mentioned uncertainty.

NORMAL NOVAE

About 120 normal novae have been discovered in M31 during the
past 21 years. The record is by no means complete, for an analysis
of the well-observed seasons suggests that the frequency is of the order
of 25 to 30 per year. These novae form a very homogeneous group;
their light curves are more or less similar over the regions that can be
observed, and the dispersion about the mean luminosities at corres-
ponding stages is remarkably small.

A discussion of the data some 10 years ago suggested a mean
luminosity at maximum of the order of M=—5.7 with a dispersion of
about 0.5 magnitude. The mean light-curve for the first month after
maximum appeared to be approximately linear with a slope of the
order of 0.05 magnitude per day. Spectra of two novae, obtained by
Humason in 1932, exhibited the familiar features of normal novae in
the galactic system.

The general similarity to galactic novae is pronounced, but a detailed
comparison of maximum luminosities leads to discrepancies. Galactic
novae, as a class, are systematically brighter by more than a magni-
tude. Moreover, several cases are known—e. g., Nova Aquilae (1918),
Nova Persei (1901), T Scorpii (1860)—where the maxima were of the
order of M=—9, which would be highly improbable on the basis of
the small dispersion about the mean maximum derived in M31.

The study of galactic novae, as a class, is subject to effects of se-
lection which favor the brighter objects, and to difficulties of measur-
ing individual distances. For these reasons, it was hoped that the
group characteristics could be determined in the neighboring spiral,
and the results used in the interpretation of observations within the
galactic system. The procedure cannot be followed unless the two
groups of novae are known to be strictly comparable. Thus the ap-
parent discrepancies assumed unusual importance; they indicated
either intrinsic differences between the groups or errors in the inter-
pretation of the available data, and no progress was possible until the
question was settled.

Quite recently, my colleague, Dr. Baade, has found a solution in the
latter alternative. Observations of M31 with large reflectors were
necessarily made only a few days in each month, and most of the
novae were discovered at some unknown interval after maximum.
The mean light-curve*was ‘constructed on the simple assumption that
146 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938

maxima occurred midway in the unobserved intervals preceding dis-
coveries. By restricting the data to unobserved intervals less than a
month, it was possible to use a large number of novae and derive a
mean point on the light-curve at about 15 days after maximum, and a
short section of the curve in either direction. The mean maximum
was then derived by extrapolating this segment of the light-curve on
the assumption of a constant slope (of the order of 0.05 magnitude per
day).

Baade, examining the best available photographic light-curves of
galactic novae, found that the luminosities faded rapidly during the
first few days, then more and more slowly until, by 3 weeks or so after
maximum, the slopes were comparable with those observed in M31.
He pointed out that the two groups of novae should properly be com-
pared in the most reliable section of the mean light-curves rather than
at maximum where the data in the spiral are few and unsatisfactory.
If the comparison is made at 20 days, the two curves agree fairly well
over a short range, and the extrapolation to maximum luminosity can
be made on the basis of the well-determined curve for galactic novae.
The procedure leads to a mean maximum in the spiral at M=—6.7 to
—7, depending on the method of weighting the data, in excellent agree-
ment with current values for galactic novae. Moreover, the brighter
novae seem to fade more rapidly than the fainter, and such acorrela-
tion would evidently increase the dispersion about the mean maximum
suggested by the incomplete data for the spiral.

Thus the outstanding discrepancies are removed. We can state
with some confidence that the relative luminosities of novae and
Cepheids agree with those known in the galactic system, well within
the uncertainties of the observations. Novae in the two systems
appear to be strictly comparable, and occasional maxima of M=—9
are readily accounted for as random deviations from the statistical
mean.

SUPERNOVAE

Another type of nova in M31 is represented by the famous star of
1885, S Andromeda, which reached a maximum of the order of
M=-—15, or twice the total luminosity of the average stellar system.
The outburst occurred before the days of the spectrograph, and the
many descriptions of the visual observations must be read in the light
of information derived from the photographic study of similar stars
made during the past year. It now appears that S Andromeda was
a typical example of the rare, spectacular supernovae which form a
well-defined group of objects quite different from any others known
to astronomy. Supernovae represent the sudden release of energy
on a tremendous scale, and their unique spectra offer problems whose
solution should furnish information of a new kind.
THE NATURE OF THE NEBULAE—HUBBLE 147

The outbursts occur with a frequency of the general order of one per
stellar system per several (possibly four or five) centuries. The fre-
quency in giant nebulae, such as M31 and our own galactic system, is
presumably greater than the average, and, consequently, we might
expect to find records of several examples scattered through the
history of the last 2,000 years. Plausible instances have been assem-
bled (for example, a nova outburst in 1054, whose remnants are
probably now observed in the Crab nebula, and Tycho’s nova of 1572),
but in general it is not possible to establish specific, individual cases.

GLOBULAR CLUSTERS

A large number of objects have been found in M31 which, from
their forms, structures, colors, and spectra, have been provisionally
identified as globular clusters, although no individual stars can be
seen. The 140 known objects form a homogeneous group in which
the intrinsic luminosities range from M=—4.7 to —7 and thus
exhibit a relatively small dispersion around the mean value, which is
about —5.3.

That globular clusters in the galactic system also form a homo-
geneous group is indicated by Shapley’s classical investigation of their
distances. When his peculiar scale of total luminosities (which he
humorously calls convenient rather than conventional) is corrected,
the absolute magnitudes range from about —5 to —9, with an ex-
ceptional cluster, Omega Centauri at —9.8. The mean value is
near —7.3.

Thus the two groups overlap to a considerable extent, but the
clusters in the galactic system are systematically brighter than those
in the spiral by about two magnitudes. The discrepancy is fully
established, and represents an intrinsic difference in the group char-
acteristics. The brightest of the objects in M31 is fainter than the
mean of the galactic globular clusters. The discrepancy, however, is
not so disturbing as that formerly presumed in the case of the novae,
because globular clusters are known in the Magellanic Clouds, and
they also appear to be systematically fainter than the galactic objects—
comparable, in fact, to the objects in M31. Moreover, similar objects
are recognized in several of the nearer nebulae, and the average lumi-
nosities vary from system to system. These considerations detract
from the value of globular clusters as criteria of distances, but they
suggest a new field of investigation, namely, the comparative study
of the group characteristics of globular clusters in different environ-
ments.

Unlike the clusters in the galactic system, which are believed to
exhibit a spherical distribution, those in M31 follow the flattened,
lens-shaped distribution of the general luminosity. The novae

1147283911
148 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938

follow the same pattern; they may appear anywhere in the nebula but
are most frequent in the bright, unresolved nuclear region. Cepheids,
on the contrary, follow the complementary distribution of the super-
giants; they favor the spiral arms and tend to avoid the nuclear region.

These notes, which omit many individual features of the triple
nebula in Andromeda, and almost the whole of a considerable body of
spectrographic data, are yet sufficient for our purpose. The nearest
of the neighboring spirals stands forth as a great, independent stellar
system, an island universe, separated from our own system by a vast
stretch of appreciably empty space. If we were in that nebula, and
looked back across that space, the system of the Milky Way presum-
ably would resemble the actual appearance of M31 in its dimensions
and in many of its structural features.

As our explorations sweep outward, we recognize countless other
members of this same family. They are the true inhabitants of the
universe. The nearer systems appear large and bright. Then we
find them smaller and fainter in constantly increasing numbers, and
we know we are reaching out into space farther and ever farther until,
at the extreme limit of our telescopes, we reach the last outposts of the
observable region of the universe. With the 100-inch reflector, the
great spiral in Andromeda could still be recognized as a nebula if it
were so remote that its light had to travel for a thousand million years
to make the journey.
‘(LElIMSISSAW) VOAWOYGNY NI 1WVWYldS LVSYD FHL AO NOIDSSY YALNO

yaLsni9d

| 3iW1d
3[499H— 861 “Oday UeruosyyIWg
THE SUN AND THE ATMOSPHERE!

By Haruan T. STETSON
Massachusetts Institute of Technology

[With three plates]

The subject assigned me for this evening is peculiarly gratifying,
for there is a new emphasis being placed upon the importance of
science to human welfare. Certainly of the cosmic elements neces-
sary for our well-being, no two are more vital to us than the sun’s
radiation and the atmosphere we breathe.

As we all know, the earth’s atmosphere consists of nearly one-
quarter oxygen, three-quarters nitrogen, a sprinkling of carbon
dioxide, with a bit of seasoning of the noble condiments of argon,
neon, crypton, xenon, and a trace of helium. Here at the earth’s
surface, we can count on a little more than 1 percent of moisture in
the form of water vapor to prevent the complete desiccation of acad-
emicians and others. For a thorough mixing of these elements of
the atmosphere and the maintenance of its temperature as well as
the variations of its temperature, we rely upon the sun. Rarely
more vividly have we had impressed upon us the relationship of our
atmosphere to the sun as a part of our cosmic environment than
has been evidenced lately by some magnificent displays of the North-
ern Lights. Flaming gorgeously red, a hundred or more miles high,
like neon signs they advertise the lofty air, swarming with the traffic
of electrons, ions, and particles, all jostling one another as they are
stimulated by radiations from the sun during a period of great sun-
spot activity.

If we look at the sun through a telescope, we see a gaseous globe
approximately one million times the size of the earth in volume with
a hot radiating surface of about 6,000° C. in temperature and fre-
quently, as on the day when this photograph (pl. 1) was taken, be-
sprinkled with dark patches that are called sunspots. From watching
the motion of these spots, we learn that the sun rotates about an axis.
This rotation is not uniform but is most rapid at the equator where
one rotation is completed in about 25 days. Halfway between the
equator and the poles, observations indicate 3 extra days are con-
sumed in a single rotation.

‘The seventh Arthur Lecture, under the auspices of the Smithsonian Institution, February 24, 1938.

149
150 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938

We need scarcely remind a Washington audience that through
the long painstaking investigations of Dr. Abbot, Secretary of the
Smithsonian Institution, the amount of energy that the sun pours
forth has been measured with such precision that we not only know
the average quantity of heat and light emitted but that this average
varies from time to time to the extent of some 2 or 3 percent. Ex-
pressed in engineering language, we can say that the earth’s share of
the sun’s output is in the neighborhood of 450 million million horse-
power. Because of its relatively insignificant size and because also
of the great distance that separates the earth from the sun, a distance
of 93 million miles, our planet intercepts but one two-billionth of this
total solar output. Even so, if we stop to consider what the cost
to the earth would be were we charged for a year’s service of heat
and light from the Solar Utilities Power and Light Company, we
would find our indebtedness mounting to staggering proportions.
At a price of 1% cents per kilowatt-hour, the annual budget that
would have to be allowed for sunshine for the United States alone
would aggregate a total of 327 quadrillion dollars.

Of course such large figures as quadrillions are indeed difficult to
picture. If we restrict our interest for the moment to the City of
New York alone, we find that the cost of sunshine for Greater New
York for just one day amounts to 100 million dollars.

Knowing how much of the sun’s energy strikes the earth and the
small proportional amount which the latter intercepts, one can easily
calculate the total output from the Solar Power House. It is 380,000,-
000,000,000,000,000,000 kilowatts. The solar dynamos are evidently
running at full-tilt and giving continuous service.

Life on the earth during the past, present, and future so depends
for its well-being upon this constant amount of sunshine that we
may well be interested in how long the Solar Power Company can
remain solvent and how long it can continue to operate while human
beings inhabit the earth. Meanwhile, we are impressed with the
apparent waste of the sun’s natural resources so far as any use by man-
kind is concerned. Fortunately for us, millions of years ago sunshine
provided the energy for growing the vast tropical forests of the Car-
boniferous era. It is the carbon in those fallen tree trunks that we
are mining today in the form of coal, the chief source of fuel for our
own public utilities. Thus nature has stored in those primitive
forests buried underground unthinkable calories of canned sunshine
that brightens our highways and illuminates our buildings during the
long nights when the sun is below the horizon. So the sunshine of
the past is being brought literally to light again. Even the ultraviolet
light in our health lamps is again directly traceable to the sunshine
sg those days when the dinosaurs roamed through the vast tropical

orests.
~

THE SUN AND THE ATMOSPHERE—STETSON 15l

If we live where we obtain our electric current from utility com-
panies operating solely by water power, we do not dodge the issue of
our debt to the Solar Power Company. The radiation from the sun
transforms the water of the oceans, lakes, and streams into the
ascending water vapor that condenses into clouds and falls in rain,
feeding mountain streams, and rivers that turn the giant turbines
of the hydroelectric plants. A fair estimate of the amount of water
evaporated and precipitated in rainfall in 1 year is 480 million million
tons. To carry on this gigantic irrigation enterprise requires the
expenditure of 1,000 million horsepower continuously throughout
the year, yet only a very small amount of solar energy is consumed
in running this rain-making machinery.

How long the Solar Power Company can continue to operate
depends upon its source of supply, and to answer this question we
must avail ourselves of the best guesses of science. Dismissing as
utterly inadequate earlier hypotheses, our best guess now is that the
chief source of energy is within the atoms of which the sun is composed.
The two simplest atoms about which we know anything are those of
hydrogen and helium. Hydrogen is the highly explosive gas which
was the cause of the Hindenburg disaster, and helium is the inert
nonexplosive gas which those responsible for this giant airliner would
have liked to have substituted for hydrogen, could they have obtained
it. Four hydrogen atoms constitute the necessary building material
for one helium atom with just a bit of energy left over.

It appears probable that within the hot interior of the sun the trans-
mutation of hydrogen into helium is continually taking place, thus
releasing an enormous amount of heat from the surplus energy left
over from each combination of four hydrogen atoms as they form one
helium atom. Every time such a transmutation takes place one per-
cent of the weight of the materials involved is liberated as energy.
On such an hypothesis the sun could have well kept up its present
state of radiation from as far back in geologic time as we have any
reason to consider. Of course the sun is constantly losing weight in
the process. The loss of weight has been calculated to be 4,200,000
tons every second, but we scarcely need worry about the fuel supply
being exhausted while the sun still has about 2,000,000,000,000,000,-
000,000,000,000 tons of matter left in it!

Passing over reminders of our indebtedness for the various services
the sun renders, we shall come to see that we are quite as much
interested in analyzing the kinds of radiation that the sun sends out
as we are in the total amount of energy received. When we analyze
this radiation we discover that it covers a wide range of frequencies
or wave lengths. It seems probable that each of these wave lengths
or frequencies renders a special kind of service to the earth and its
atmosphere.
152 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938

We are all familiar with the fact that if sunlight is split into its
component colors by means of a spectroscope we can see a large variety
of the radiations represented by the various parts or colors of the solar
spectrum. The visible range to which the eye responds represents
frequencies extending from 400 million million cycles per second to a
frequency just about double this, or 800 million million cycles per
second. The sensation of the higher of these two frequencies is that of
violet light, and the sensation produced by the 400 million million cycle
frequency is that of deep red light. In between these two extremes
of the spectrum fall the intervening colors. But outside this so-called
visible range to which the eye responds there is a vast scale of radia-
tions both beyond the red end of the spectrum which we call the
infrared and far down below the violet which we call the ultraviolet.

By means of the photographic plate, we can extend the map of the
spectrum in either direction. Far out beyond the red end are heat
radiations from the sun that may be measured with the thermopile or
the bolometer. It was during the days of Dr. Samuel Pierpont
Langley, a predecessor of Dr. Abbot as Secretary of the Smithsonian
Institution, that a very complete and careful survey of the radiations
from the sun was carried out, extending into the infrared. Today
much research is being done in measuring the extremely short waves,
or high-frequency radiations out beyond the violet, for the ultraviolet
is coming to have increasing importance not only from the point of
view of health but from the point of view of the radio engineer.

It is undoubtedly the impact of these very short waves or high-
frequency radiations upon the top of the atmosphere that is responsi-
ble for its ionization that makes possible all our radio communication.
Fortunately for us, most of the ultraviolet light is stopped in the upper
atmosphere owing to the presence of a small amount of ozone which
acts as an absorbing screen to these high-frequency radiations. If the
ozone in the upper air were reduced to standard atmospheric condi-
tions at the earth’s surface, it would form a layer scarcely more than
2 millimeters thick. Through the 2-millimeter layer a sufficient amount
of ultraviolet still seeps through to the earth’s surface to produce the
necessary vitamins for our well-being. Were this ozone layer absent,
on the other hand, it would be quite impossible for us to survive under
the extremely short wave-length radiations that would penetrate to
the earth’s surface.

Thus, we see it is the combination of both the sun and our atmos-
phere that makes life on the earth possible. The sun not only
radiates health-giving sunshine but it also radiates death-dealing rays.
Were it not for the protecting shield of the earth’s atmosphere, the
sun would be the death of all of us. The atmosphere, then, provides
us, on the one hand, with oxygen for maintaining life, and on the other
hand, shields us from the highly penetrating rays from the sun that
THE SUN AND THE ATMOSPHERE—STETSON 15

are dangerous in the extreme. The atmosphere is a sort of buffer
state, the very top of which receives a violent bombardment of high
frequency radiations from the sun that is prevented from reaching
the surface of the earth by the absorbing power of the molecules of
gases contained init. Up where this bombardment occurs, we witness
the auroral displays, such as the brilliant occurrences of last January.
These displays are in reality electrical discharges in the thin atmos-
phere occurring at the active front where are received the heavy
artillery of corpuscles, electrons, and radiations which fall upon it
from space outside and for which the sun appears to be chiefly
responsible.

It is this blanket of atmosphere that enables the earth to retain
during the night much of the warmth generated by the sunshine
falling upon it during the day, thus preventing the temperature of
the earth from falling to extremely low temperatures during the
hours of darkness.

Though the effective atmosphere is many miles thick, when com-
pared to the size of the earth itself it is but a thin shell, hardly more
than the thickness of the paper upon which the map is printed on a
desk globe compared to the size of the globe itself.

If we look at a cross-section of the earth’s atmosphere, it may for
convenience be divided into three zones or layers in which the strato-
sphere occupies the middle ground. The region below the stratosphere
is that which contacts our immediate surroundings and provides the
winds and atmospheric currents, giving rise to all our weather. We
call this lower region comprising perhaps the first 5 or 6 miles the
troposphere. The region above the stratosphere is the ionosphere.
If we send a recording thermometer aloft, we find that while passing
through the troposphere the temperature steadily falls until a height
of 10 or 12 kilometers is reached, when the temperature reaches the
extremely low value of —55° C., or some 68° below zero Fahrenheit.
Strangely enough, for the next 30 miles or so there appears to be little
change in temperature. ‘This is the region of the stratosphere. The
weather forecaster for the stratosphere would have a relatively simple
task, for day after day, year in and year out, his prognostications
would be “clear and cool,” and his forecasts would be 100 percent
correct. Ata height of 60 kilometers or some 40 miles, the tempera-
ture would begin to rise again. Recent investigations give some
evidence that at extreme heights, up where the auroral fires play,
temperatures of 1,000° C. have to be postulated to account for the
presence of the oxygen that is there. The extremely rarefied condi-
tion of this upper atmosphere, however, calls for perhaps a quite
different interpretation of temperature than that to which we are
ordinarily accustomed when determining temperatures by the ther-
mometer at the earth’s surface.
154 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938

Ascending through the cross-sections of the atmosphere, we find
there is a rapid decrease in the amount of atmospheric pressure.
Within the first 3 miles from the earth’s surface, half the total amount
of oxygen and nitrogen, the principal atmospheric ingredients, are
included. The limiting height to which the thinning atmosphere
extends is somewhat difficult to fix. Perhaps we should place it at
400 or 500 miles, although recently Dr. Carl Stérmer has observed
auroral streamers reaching to heights of 600 miles or more. Where
auroral streamers go, some of the thin atmosphere must extend.

Through the courtesy of the Smithsonian Institution we have
provided for us here? a piece of apparatus from which the air can
be exhausted so that we can gradually simulate conditions that
would be encountered were we to board an imaginary balloon and
ascend upward. To apply such electric potentials as appear to
exist aloft, there are two electrodes entering this glass tube at either
end and a high voltage is applied across these terminals. Under the
standard atmospheric conditions of this room which is now the
condition inside the tube, you see there is no evidence of a passage
of electricity. Air under ordinary conditions is a relatively good
nonconductor. If, however, I now start the vacuum pump going
and begin to exhaust the air from this closed tube, the pressure will
be gradually reduced and we shall soon see the beginning of an illumi-
nation as an electric current passes through the rarefied air from one
end of the tube to the other. The color already simulates the red
tints of the aurorae. As the vacuum in this tube increases, we
imagine ourselves rising higher and higher through the stratosphere.
We note the changing form of the electrical discharge and the pale
blue color that now occurs as the ionization of the thinning air in the
tube becomes more complete. The glow is dimming now as we are
attaining the equivalent altitude of some 400 or 500 miles. At this
imaginary height the air molecules are becoming scarce. The artificial
auroral glow is dimming. Now it has ceased altogether for the
vacuum obtained is too nearly complete for current to pass longer.
We are at the very top. Now shutting off the pump we will throw
a little valve here, and gradually admit the air from the room again.
In our imaginary flight our gallant gondola is now descending. Watch
for the first appearances of the auroral glow. There it is—first pale
blue, gradually increasing in intensity as we rapidly descend to
greater densities of the air. Once again we see the pink striations.
We are coming rapidly into the stratosphere. Now come the irregular
discharges characteristic of the denser regions. The glow dims and
disappears once more. We have fallen rapidly down to full atmos-
pheric pressure again where the air becomes nonconducting and the
discharge has ceased.

3 Experiment shown to the lecture audience.
THE SUN AND THE ATMOSPHERE—STETSON 155

This is an illustration of the way in which aurorae are formed in
the upper atmosphere of the earth under the electrical excitation
that appears to be caused by the sun’s radiation as molecules of
oxygen and nitrogen are ionized in the regions where the pressure
is very low.

If we make a chart of the numbers and occurrences of these aurorae
we find there seems to be a curious connection between the frequency
and brightness of auroral displays and the state of the sun as marked
by the appearance of sunspots. Professor Brooks, Director of the
Blue Hill Observatory, has kindly allowed me access to the records
made of aurorae at that station for the last 30 years. Utilizing the
observations of the brighter aurorae, we have here a graph showing
the variations in auroral frequencies occurring in years distributed
with respect to the maximum occurrences of sunspots. The fewest

S

on

RELATIVE FREQUENCY

(6 32535. 4p Saree

6 Sere | 93 Zz ! fe)
SUNSPOT
YEARS BEFORE MAXIMA YEARS AFTER

FIGURE 1.—Relative frequency of auroral display at Blue Hill Observatory from records 1885-1937.

number of aurorae appear to occur from 4 to 6 years before or after
the years marking sunspot maxima. ‘The time when aurorae appear
most frequently would seem to be about 2 years after the passing of
the maximum of sunspots. The very high column occurring 1 year
before sunspot maximum is due largely to an unusually large number
of observations in 1893. These results corroborate rather well
those of a longer series of observations tabulated by Dr. Chree extend-
ing for over 100 years, or from 1750 to 1877.

The fact that aurorae therefore appear to occur with greater fre-
quency at the times when sunspots are most numerous suggests an
electrical effect in the upper atmosphere for which sunspots may be
responsible. Much of our present knowledge of aurorae is due to the
exhaustive studies and mathematical calculations of Dr. Stérmer of
Blindern, Norway. By careful analysis of the motion of charged par-
ticles in the magnetic field of the earth he has been able to deduce
tracks of ionization so simulating auroral forms as to indicate very
156 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938

significantly that such discharges in the upper atmosphere are indeed
the result of bombardments of electrons coming in from outside,
warped by the magnetic field of the earth. In endeavoring to express
such phenomena on an electronic hypothesis we may well look at the
sun, therefore, for a consideration of the character of sunspots and
to trace any possible mechanism by which corpuscular charges might
be ejected in the regions of the sunspots themselves.

When we look at an enlarged view of a sunspot and analyze the
light from it we find that the dark interior center is surrounded by a
turbulent area. A photograph taken in the light emitted by hydrogen
at one particular frequency reveals that here are whirling masses of
gas, arranging themselves in veritable vortices. There is every indi-
cation, then, that a sunspot is in reality a terrific solar hurricane. It
was in 1908 that the late Dr. George Ellery Hale, the founder and
director of the Mount Wilson Observatory, first observed that sun-
spots were giant cyclones in the sun’s atmosphere. They are indeed
very similar in their formation to the tropical hurricanes that originate
in the West Indies and sweep northward.

An ordinary telescope would never have disclosed all this about
sunspots. With a special contrivance of his own invention called the
spectroheliograph he was able to photograph the sun, utilizing the
light of a given frequency from one chemical element at a time. The
spectroheliograph is a sort of a combination of a spectroscope and a
moving plate arrangement, somewhat similar to a motion picture
outfit in its operation. With this device it is possible to photograph
the distribution of clouds of chemicals whose presence in the sun’s
atmosphere is betrayed by the lines in the spectrum. Since the
invention of the spectroscope it has been known that hydrogen and
calcium, for example, are very conspicuous elements entering into
the sun’s makeup.

With photographic emulsions made especially sensitive to the red
light emitted by hydrogen Dr. Hale photographed on a moving film
the entire solar surface so far as it was covered by bright luminous
hydrogen clouds. The resulting representations of the sun appeared
very different from photographs made in ordinary light. Not only
were large clouds of hydrogen gas discernible all over the sun, but in
the neighborhood of sunspots they seemed to be swept into the heart of
the spot as though they were caught in the center of a whirlpool.
Pictures of sunspots taken in this way show the same kind of vortex
as one often sees when a basin is being emptied of water by the sudden
removal of a drain plug at the bottom of the bowl. Such an appear-
ance might be presented by the top of a terrestrial cyclone or tornado
if photographed from a stratospheric balloon. The dark center of the
spot forms the center of the vortex; the outlying shaded region that
characterizes the so-called penumbra of the sunspot would represent
THE SUN AND THE ATMOSPHERE—STETSON 157

the turbulence bordering upon the central funnel about which the
atmospheric particles are rapidly rotating. Thus we see there is a
close analogy between the meteorology of tropical cyclones and that
of sunspots. To carry the analogy still further, spots north of the
sun’s equator are in general whirling in one direction while corre-
sponding spots south of the equator whirl in the opposite direction.
If the rotation of the one is clockwise, that of the other is counter-
clockwise. This again is characteristic of the differences of rotation
of tropical hurricanes on the earth originating in the northern and
southern hemispheres, respectively.

Had it not been for the trick of splitting up sunlight into isolated
frequencies by means of the spectroscope, we should never have had
pictures showing the existence of solar vortices such as we have today.
In the ordinary photograph of the sun, the light emitted by every
chemical element in the sun’s atmosphere is clamoring to tell its
story. The result is revealed in a rather jumbled picture of what is
happening on the sun. The spots show up as dark regions only when
the light-emitting power of every element of the sun is damaged in
the vicinity of these violently disturbed regions.

The spectroscope is very much like a highly selective radio receiving
set. The sun is a high-powered station sending out light, broadcast
in all the wave lengths and frequencies. When we look at the sun
or photograph it with a telescope alone, we are using all of the light
and are, so to speak, operating a radio receiver which admits all fre-
quencies at once. Thus we get a composite but very jumbled picture
of what is happening on the sun’s surface so far as details are con-
cerned. By means of the spectroscope, however, the photographic
apparatus, to continue our analogy, may be tuned to a single fre-
quency such as the 470 million megacycle frequency that the red line
of hydrogen emits. Tuned to this frequency, the spectroscope stills
the tumult of all other elements and lets hydrogen tell its own story.
It is then that we obtain the clear photographs conveying so beauti-
fully the detailed information about the vortical whirls around the
solar storm centers that would otherwise be lost in the jumble of too
many story-tellers.

At about the same time another brilliant discovery due to Dr.
Hale came from the Mount Wilson Observatory. It had long been
known that the frequencies of light waves were distorted if there were
a powerful magnetic field at the light source. This had been demon-
strated in the laboratory shortly after the reason for such a phenomenon
had been given by Zeeman in 1894. When the Mount Wilson ob-
servers examined and actually measured the frequency of light coming
from the centers of sunspots, it was found to have changed frequency
in exactly the way that light waves are distorted in the laboratory
when a powerful electromagnet is placed around the source of light
158 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938

being examined. If additional proof were needed for the explanation
of the changed frequencies, it may be stated that the double and triple
lines found in the spectrum of sunspots indicated that the light was
polarized just as in the case of the polarized light waves coming from
the laboratory source upon which the magnetic field is impressed.
Thus came the startling revelation that sunspots were not only terrific
hurricanes but every center was in itself a powerful magnet. Since a
magnetic field may exert a repulsing effect upon swiftly moving elec-
trons, we see some reason that charged electric particles can be actu-
ally hurled from sunspot centers at velocities which may carry them
through space into the earth’s atmosphere, thus ionizing the upper
regions of the air in a way that would produce auroral displays. In
the light of such a mechanism, therefore, we see a possible reason why
aurorae occur in greater numbers and at greater brilliance at times
when these solar storms occur most frequently.

Curiously enough, for nearly 300 years it has been known that the
direction of the compass needle and the intensity of the earth’s mag-
netic field appear also to be affected by sunspots, for in the year when

Bade > is GEERT Ae PCC GGT EET ELLE
fh (kG REA RSE Lee Sa eee
rea HED ANDAD FIER Sey Vase LI
PACA tye Lae
PY TNF INS Se SUT TAT Sat TT dol A ANT tate
80 HEE PY A TP ATT REET aa I Ne
PAGE ENS AP a IVER SSAPMA a ae
Re Ts TT MCT Na Ta TT
SCOTT NT eT he ATTN OT
0 EECA COP COS OS eyed TT TPA TTT Re TT TR TT I
iso. 1850. «1860—Sss«S7O0—t:—«dS8BO.—Ci‘é‘dNSDsCisiSOssAD 1920 1950

FIGURE 2.—Sunspots and variations in earth’s magnetism fluctuate together through the years.

sunspots are most numerous, magnetic disturbances are most fre-
quent and appear with marked intensity.

If we examine a graph representing the sunspot numbers for the
last 100 years, we become aware of the close parallelism between these
magnetic variations on the earth and the variations in the numbers of
sunspots. Furthermore, it will be evident that the years when sun-
spots are most numerous follow with more or less regularity an interval
of somewhat over a decade between the times of maximum sunspot
activity. This solar cycle, or sunspot period as we sometimes call it,
is usually conceded to be on the average of about 11.3 years duration.
But an examination of the graph will show that sometimes the inter-
val between maxima is as little as 9 years and on one occasion was as
great as 17 years. We appear now to be in the midst of the period of
maximum activity of the present cycle.

The source and nature of the earth’s magnetism is still one of the
great mysteries of science. Although the close parallelism between
magnetic changes on the earth and the appearance and disappearance
of sunspots has been recognized for many years, it was not until the
THE SUN AND THE ATMOSPHERE—STETSON 159

discovery of the magnetic character of sunspots themselves by Dr.
Hale and the more recent discovery of an ionized region in the upper
atmosphere of the earth that any real explanation appeared as to why
sunspots and changes in the earth’s magnetic field should show so
close a parallelism.

Everyone knows in a general way that the earth is a magnetic
sphere. That the compass needle does not point true north except in
various restricted parts of the globe is also a fact which is generally
recognized. Perhaps comparatively few people realize, however, that
the compass needle is constantly wandering back and forth every day
by a slight amount. When the sun rises in the east, the north end of
the compass needle turns slightly toward that direction. By noon
when the sun is south, it is pointed in its normal position. Then in
the afternoon as the sun wanders and sets in the west, the compass
needle wanders likewise to the west, coming back again to its normal
position about midnight when the sun is below the northern horizon.
This goes on day after day, month after month—but during the years
when sunspots are most numerous these daily excursions of the com-
pass needle will on the average be twice as great as during the years
when sunspots are lacking. These diurnal wanderings of the compass
needle can now be roughly explained as due to the effects of ionization
of the upper atmosphere by sunlight. As the electric charges become
separated in the process of ionization of the molecules of nitrogen and
oxygen under the bombardment of ultraviolet light from the sun, the
movements of these ions create a perceptible current, deflecting the
compass needle from its normal magnetic position. We may infer,
therefore, that at times of sunspot maxima the number of these ions
in the upper air is materially increased, producing a more marked
magnetic effect. The strength of the magnetic field of the earth, there-
fore, may be considered as increasing and decreasing with the variation
in the intensity of the ionization of the upper air that changes with
sunspot occurrences. Most of our knowledge of the ionized region
has come about through the invention of radio.

In the early days of wireless, it was thought that electric waves
which carried telegraph messages without wires traveled in straight
lines over the earth, just as light waves do. With this conception one
could never hope to communicate over very great distances, since the
curvature of the earth would prevent the passage of the waves as the
earth’s huge hulk bulged into the communication path. The earlier
wireless engineers thought that only by building higher and higher
antenna towers could one ultimately hope to communicate over the
thousands of miles that would make transoceanic wireless possible.

How amusing such a picture appears when today any one of us can
turn the knob on our short-wave sets and bring in broadcasts from
London, Rome, or Berlin. Of course, these early crude notions about
160 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938

the way in which electric waves travel were erroneous. Such, never-
theless, is the way in which science has groped into the unknown.
Somebody experimenting with wireless and listening in found himself
quite unconsciously eavesdropping on Marconi waves from far-away
Europe. Instantly the thought about how wireless waves travel had
to be changed. Evidently the ether waves followed the curvature of
the earth and did not travel in straight lines after all. This led Pro-
fessor Kennelly of Harvard to postulate that there must exist high
above the earth’s surface, perhaps 100 miles or so up, an electrified
conducting layer from which the electromagnetic waves emitted from
the powerful antennae were reflected back to earth. The earth’s
upper atmosphere, therefore, in his mind formed a conducting layer
and imprisoned the radio waves between the earth’s surface and space
outside. A few months after Professor Kennelly published his idea,
the English scientist, Oliver Heaviside, announced a similar conclusion
quite independently. In honor of these two distinguished men this
upper region of the earth’s atmosphere that is electrically ionized is
commonly referred to as the Kennelly-Heaviside layer, also designated
as the E layer.

If we look at a diagram (pl. 2) which presents a vertical section of
the earth and its atmosphere, we see that this Kennelly-Heaviside layer
exists at an altitude of from 80-100 kilometers. Radio waves emitted
from a sending station in all directions arriving in this ionized region
have their velocity and direction changed as they penetrate further
and further into the region, until at length they are bent back to
earth again, reaching receiving stations hundreds and sometimes
thousands of miles from the source whence they were broadcast. This
region lies far above the stratosphere and generally above the region
that is usually regarded as that where ozone is manufactured. This
E layer is particularly favorable for reflecting or turning back radio
waves of the frequencies which are most generally used for commer-
cial broadcasting in connection with our entertainment programs.
Radio waves of much shorter wave lengths or of higher frequencies
penetrate and actually traverse through this region until they reach
what appears to be another ionized region called the F layer originally
postulated by Professor Appleton of England. This F layer lies some
200 kilometers high or in the territory where auroral streamers stage
their gorgeous displays. If the ionization of these upper regions is
more intense as we near the period of maximum sunspot activity, one
might well expect that some change might be observed in connection
with radio transmission.

Anticipating a new field of research, a Boston radio engineer, Mr.
G. W. Pickard, and myself became interested in the making of quan-
titative measurements of radio reception during the last sunspot
maximum of 1928 in an endeavor to discover if such anticipated effects
THE SUN AND THE ATMOSPHERE—STETSON 161

on radio communication could be measured. After a few years’
observations, it appeared to be evident that when solar activity de-
creased, the field strength of a Chicago broadcasting station observed
in Boston notably weakened, whereas as sunspots became less numer-
ous there was a marked increase in the intensity of the radio waves
from Chicago. A similar investigation carried on during the decline
of sunspots from 1930 to 1932 between Chicago and the Perkins
Observatory of Delaware, Ohio, yielded data to indicate that with a
decrease of sunspots from a monthly average of 60 at the beginning
of 1930 to a monthly average of about 10 in 1932, radio reception in-
creased six-fold in its intensity.

Let me hasten to point out that this does not necessarily imply a
600 percent decrease in the ionization of the Kennelly-Heaviside layer
over this interval, for it appears probable that a much smaller change
in the percentage of ionization could so appreciably alter the degree
of the angle of reflection at the ionized layer as to increase materially

Last ay
epee ad ¥ ee A dies Sirids Wels At nae |
70 | Good = hi WA \A| Good Long-Distance
60 Reception _@ UN Li GNA jt Al AY Reception

SZ, (MN er

0 UMS pay
r y a Lehn AT
30 GO: MYL 2 al HE a
a9 |__| ex WAZ EADING RANGE Ay ae MILES |

| GW (20-150 MILES Fm yr)

” DWM GEEELEIELL

8 1923 1924 1925 .1926 1927 1928 a Ge i931 i932

FiGuRE 3.—Solar activity serves as a basis for predicting quality of radio reception for broadcast frequencies.
The vertical scale represents sunspot numbers.

the strength of a wave of a fixed frequency over a fixed path as re-
ceived at any given point.

Let us take an illustration from the sporting world. Suppose we
were in a squash court and attempted to place a tennis ball at a pre-
determined spot on the court by a serve directed to the ceiling. If we
judiciously direct our serve, we may land the ball at its desired destina-
tion by a reflection from the ceiling of the court. If now, the ceiling
should be raised or lowered by even a relatively small amount, the
same stroke would result in landing the ball far from its mark. Fol-
lowing this analogy, a radio receiver may be at an optimum position
for receiving a broadcast wave reflected from the ionized layer. Let
the ceiling of reflection of this wave be altered either in height or in
its ionic content, thereby increasing or decreasing the ionization present,
and the wave may arrive at the earth so far from our receiver that we
get notably bad reception. The radio, therefore, becomes a sensitive
and extremely useful tool in recording changes of degree of ionization
162 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938

in the Kennelly layer. When we observe field strengths at long dis-
tances, we are in a way tracing the integration of the effect throughout
the whole transmission path.

Another way in which we gain important information as to the sun’s
effect upon the upper atmosphere is by making radio soundings from
day to day. This method which has been in use for some years at
the National Kureau of Standards, at the Department of Terrestrial
Magnetism of the Carnegie Institution in Washington and elsewhere,
consists of sending up a radio pulse, letting it bounce off the reflecting
layer, come back nearly vertically into a sensitive receiver, and
measuring the time elapsed while the wave was traveling this path
to the ionosphere and back. Assuming that the radio wave travels
with the velocity of light, one can calculate from the elapsed time the
height to which the pulse ascended before it was turned back by the
ionosphere. The method, you see, is very similar to that used at sea
when a sound wave is sent from an oscillator in the ship’s hull to the
ocean bottom and is received back at the microphones of the ship’s
navigating equipment. Knowing the speed with whichisound travels
through water, the ship’s captain can thus determine the ocean depth.
Soundings made in the ionosphere, therefore, reveal different con-
ditions at various times, showing marked changes in the ionic density
dependent upon the hour of the day and the season of the year. This
method of radio soundings is sometimes modified by changing the
frequency at which the radio pulse is emitted. If the frequency is
sufficiently increased, these more penetrating waves may pass com-
pletely through the ionized layer and not return. When such a
frequency is attained, it is known as the critical frequency. Its value
is an important index for studying cosmic effects.

During the last few years of sunspot activity, there have been
occasions when remarkable fadeouts have occurred in radio com-
munication. In several of these instances extraordinary explosions
have occurred on the sun simultaneously with the interruption of all
radio communication in general. A record has been kept by Dr.
Dellinger, at the National Bureau of Standards, of such radio fadeouts
as are reported. In many of these instances observations at the
Mount Wilson Observatory have shown violent solar eruptions taking
place simultaneously. It would appear that the intense ionizing radia-
tion from the region of the sun where these eruptions occur reaches
the earth with the velocity of light and of sufficient intensity to
disturb immediately the ionized layer, confusing the reflection of
radio waves, and thereby resulting in these fadeouts which sometimes
last for an hour or more. Records at magnetic observatories show
that during such instances characteristics of the earth’s magnetic
field are likewise suddenly altered.
THE SUN AND THE ATMOSPHERE—STETSON 163

Could we visualize the ethereal substance of the ionosphere as we
visualize the surface of the ocean, we should find times when terrific
storms were raging in this ionosphere. Here ions and electrons are
being hurled hither and yon as though some great electrical wind
played upon its surface, creating waves literally miles high. Fre-
quently the turbulence attains such proportions that no reflecting
surface for radio communication seems possible at all. When dis-
turbances on the sun subside, the undulations in the ionosphere may
quiet down and there is a return to more normal conditions for com-
munication traffic through this ocean of the upper air.

While knowledge of the sun has helped us to understand the
vagaries of radio, we are coming to see that radio is one of the most
important tools for learning about what happens on the sun and how
disturbances there affect the ions in this upper air. Perhaps some
day, even though the sky is cloudy, we shall have a sufficient number
of reports of radio conditions over the globe so that we can form a
very good idea as to what is happening on the surface of the sun by the
way in which world-wide radio communication behaves. Unlike the
telescope, radio apparatus does not go out of commission when the
sky is overcast, for electric waves, of course, pass through the clouds
as easily as ordinary daylight comes through window glass.

Concerning the exact method or methods by means of which the
sun produces all these electric disturbances of the upper air with the
concomitant magnetic variations in the earth, we still lack a great
deal of knowledge. The fact that the ultraviolet radiation from the
sun is the major factor in producing this ionization appears a reason-
able assumption. Whether or not in addition to the effect of the
ultraviolet light, streams of charged particles also emanate from the
sun in the regions of sunspots is perhaps still debatable. The elab-
orate mathematical work of Dr. Stérmer, in calculating the movements
of hypothetical charged particles from the sun striking the upper
atmosphere of the earth and thereby producing aurorae, would cer-
tainly seem to favor the idea that corpuscular radiation of some sort is
responsible for this phenomenon.

One experimental way by which we might determine the relative
importance of ultraviolet light and corpuscular radiation from the sun,
if such exists, is to observe the radio effects during the phenomenon of
a total eclipse of the sun. Measurements of the Heaviside layer
heights during the eclipse of 1932 revealed a marked change in the
ionization coincident with the arrival of the moon’s shadow. As the
moon passed off the sun and the normal daylight was restored, the
apparent height of the ionized layer again resumed its normal value
through the day.

114728—39——12
164 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938

Chapman has shown that if there is a corpuscular emanation from
the sun affecting the ionosphere and if these corpuscles travel, as
would be surmised, at velocities much slower than those of light, the
effect of the moon in screening off from the earth such a stream of
charged particles should cause disturbances in the ionosphere as much
as 2 hours in advance of the optical shadow. Such an effect was looked
for in the case of the New England eclipse of 1932 but with results that

ULTRA~VIOLET
~
o

z
ey
§
=
i
i
&
G
5
5

FIELD-INTENSITY

FADE-OUTS
|

RADIO FIELO-STRENGTH, 9-10 P.M.) 75° WEST MERIDIAN TIME
WBBM, WABAN, MASSACHUSETTS, NOVEMBER 1935 THROUGH JANUARY
1938

Ficure 4.—Field strengths of broadcasting station show a decrease trend with increasing sunspots. Curves
of sunspot activity and ultraviolet light are inverted in plotting.

were far from convincing. Observations at other eclipses have un-
mistakably confirmed the hypothesis of ultraviolet light as a source of
ionization but only conflicting reports are available for any substan-
tiation of a corpuscular or electronic shadow. One difficulty, perhaps,
in detecting the effects of a stream of charged particles or electrons
emanating from the sun or sunspots lies in the fact that the paths of
THE SUN AND THE ATMOSPHERE—STETSON 165

the charged particles would vary very materially from a straight line
as they are distorted, both by any magnetic field which the sun may
possess and by the magnetic field of the earth when the corpuscles or
electrons arrive in the neighborhood of our planet. We should,
therefore, preserve an open mind relative to any corpuscular theory,
for negative evidence is never completely convincing.

It seems hardly necessary to emphasize the desirability of contin-
uing measurements of radiation from the sun such as have been con-
tinued for so many years by the Smithsonian Institution. In con-
nection with measuring the total amount of the sun’s radiation it
appears especially important that systematic measurements of the
ultraviolet in sunshine should form an important part in gaining
information as to the interrelation of the sun and the earth. Daily
measurements of the strength of the ultraviolet in sunshine made by
Pettit at the Mount Wilson Observatory over many years appear to
indicate that in general ultraviolet radiation is more intense near
sunspot maxima than at sunspot minima. There are, however,
many disconcerting discrepancies. A remarkable drop in the ultra-
violet radiation from the sun, for example, occurred in the early part
of 1936 while solar activity was still rising. It must be remarked
that ultraviolet is probably the source of the creation of ozone in the
upper air, and at the same time any increase in the ozone content
naturally screens from the earth’s surface the greater part of this ultra-
violet radiation which produces it. Since ozone, therefore, absorbs
the greater part of the sun’s ultraviolet radiation, it would appear
that with any sudden increase in the ultraviolet there would be a
concomitant increase in the amount of ozone which, in turn, would
effectively reduce the quantity of the ultraviolet light which we would
measure at the earth’s surface. This seriously complicates the prob-
lem, and may account for the fact that a smaller value of the ultra-
violet radiation would actually be recorded by our instruments even
though its emission from the sun at the same time might be enhanced.
Similarly, a sudden dissociation of ozone due to a decrease in the
amount of ultraviolet emitted from the sun might well result in a
sufficient thinning of the ozone layer to allow apparently a material
increase in the amount of ultraviolet coming through the atmosphere
to the earth. Our instruments, therefore, would indicate more ultra-
violet at a time when the sun might actually be emitting less.

When we take averages of ultraviolet radiation over the years and
compare them with solar activity, the correspondence between sun-
spots and ultraviolet radiation is much more striking than any day-
to-day or week-to-week correspondence can exhibit. It would appear
feasible and highly desirable that observations of ultraviolet should
be made from the stratosphere, utilizing balloons for carrying the
recorders aloft. We find that the Smithsonian Institution already
166 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938

has plans for carrying out such a program of observations daily as
soon as funds may become available for the purpose.

With 95 percent of the earth’s atmosphere below the apparatus,
better measurements of the ultraviolet light could be made than at
any station on the earth’s surface. Notable advances in the design
of apparatus for measuring the ultraviolet part of the solar spectrum
have recently been made by Dr. O’Brien of the University of Rochester.
Such apparatus yields photographic records by means of which a
quantitative estimate of the ozone content of the upper air can be
made daily with a high order of accuracy. The part which this ozone
plays in modifying the amount and character of sunshine at the
earth’s surface is of very great importance. For weather and biologi-
cal behavior are undoubtedly sooner or later dependent upon both
the quantity of ozone and the quality of solar radiation received near
the surface of the earth.

The idea that weather may be associated with changes in the sun-
spot cycle is not new. Many investigators have attempted to find
relationships between sunspots and weather changes with the ultimate
hope that since we can predict with reasonable accuracy the main
trends in the solar cycle we may ultimately be able to predict likewise
the main trends in changes of weather. The relationship between
weather and sunspots is not a simple one. While some may doubt
that any direct relationship holds at all, we might say frankly that
there is certainly no adequate proof to the contrary.

In spite of many conflicting results, it appears that in general the
temperature of the world at large is somewhat higher at sunspot
minima than at sunspot maxima. This seems at first paradoxical
since we might well expect that at sunspot maxima the sun would
send us more heat and radiation than at sunspot minima. Many of
Dr. Abbot’s observations, especially during the earlier years, seem to
corroborate this. Yet the surface temperature of the globe could be
actually cooler in years when the earth is receiving more heat from
the sun, for increased heat produces increased evaporation which in
turn generally results in increased rainfall. Increased rainfall actually
lowers the temperature of the earth’s surface and again by evapora-
tion, continues to cool the air immediately above. Furthermore, with
the warming of the earth, a vast convectional system of atmospheric
currents results. As air warmed near the surface of the earth rises,
cold air flows in from the polar regions with its chilling effects. It
appears entirely possible that even with an increase in the heat received
by the earth from the sun, so far as surface conditions are concerned,
actually lower temperatures would occur at selected regions.

One thing is certain, and that is that all the weather on the earth
is produced ultimately by the sun. So far as changes in the sun’s
radiation affecting the general circulation of the atmosphere are con-
THE SUN AND THE ATMOSPHERE—STETSON 167

cerned, it is to be expected that such changes would ultimately give
rise to the formation of storms and the storm tracks resulting. One
of the difficulties in establishing any intimate connection between
weather and sunspots is that our observations of weather tend to be
very local.

If one averages weather conditions over the entire globe, as, for
example, comparing the average rainfall record at observing stations
throughout the world, one might expect at first thought to find some
relation with sunspots, assuming that sunspots have anything to do
with weather phenomena. Such, however, is far from the case.
A storm in one region of the globe means clear weather elsewhere, for
a region of low pressure presupposes a region of high pressure adjacent.
Similarly, excessive rainfall in a given locality in a given year will
usually be offset by one of extreme dryness occurring elsewhere. To

Computed
Temperatures
\ : _--- From
cf Observed
Mf Temperatures

Degrees, E

1920 1925 1930 1935 1940

FIGURE 5.—Clayton’s prediction of temperatures at New Haven, Conn., based on 68-year period.

average together such effects will obviously lead to no definite conclu-
sion. Furthermore, since storms travel over more or less defined
tracks, the migration of these storm centers makes it impossible to get
significant results from hundreds of stations scattered from the polar
regions to the Equator. If progress is to be made, it will come
through a consciousness of the distribution of weather as a whole over
the entire globe. For a more accurate picture of world weather,
indications for weather in a given locality at a given time may be
more easily estimated.

Mr. H. H. Clayton, of Canton, Mass., a well-known scientist who
has spent many long years in weather bureau service, is a firm believer
that changes in the sun are accompanied by fundamental changes in
the earth’s atmosphere. He appears to have found very definite
indications that changes in the earth’s atmosphere in different parts
of the world accompany the changes in solar activity attendant upon
the solar cycle, in which we can be sure Dr. Abbot would concur.
168 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938

Looking at the weather on a world-wide scale, Clayton has found
that pressures oscillate from one region to another in some way which
appears to depend upon the intensity of solar activity. He finds
there is an opposite trend over the continents and oceans in summer as
compared with winter, and that the trend is different in the equatorial
regions from that in the extratropical belts. In the equatorial regions
temperatures are distinctly lower at sunspot maximum and higher at
sunspot minimum. The same is true in the North and South Tem-
perate Zones, but in the arid regions bordering the Tropics the
temperature actually averages little higher around sunspot maximum
than at sunspot minimum. From his studies he concludes that while
the North Atlantic shows 10 to 20 percent more precipitation, the
eastern half of the United States is in the region where rainfall is
actually less during maximum activity on the sun. He concludes that
our weather is the result of certain progressive wavelike movements
of certain disturbed areas, originating in different parts of the world.
With each cycle of change in solar activity, the centers of high baro-
metric pressure move from high latitudes to low latitudes and back
again. The amplitude of their oscillations and the speed with which
these waves progress appears to be inversely proportional to the length
of the period of oscillation.

In years of unusually high sunspot maxima as is the case at the
present time, areas of high pressure appear to be pushed farther north-
ward. The return of these highs to low latitudes with accompanying
colder and clearer weather may, he believes, be so retarded under
such instances as to invert the phase of a cycle which has persisted
for some time, when the amplitudes of these oscillations have been of
less magnitude. Thus there will be several years when the differences
in barometric pressure between the equatorial region and North
Temperate Zone become greater than normal, and then this period
will be followed by several years when the pressure differences become
less than normal. The shifting of these centers of action, he believes,
is definitely associated with sunspots.

Mr. Clayton’s conclusions are based on so large an amount of data
and upon such a wide experience in meteorology that no one interested
in weather or weather prediction can overlook the significance of these
contributions. One might venture to suggest that one of the most
important discoveries in the matter of weather prediction may come
as a byproduct of some of these investigations.

Various attempts have been made to attribute climatic cycles to
changes in solar activity. Perhaps the most outstanding scientific
contribution in this direction has come from Prof. A. E. Douglass, of
the University of Arizona, who has spent a lifetime measuring varia-
tions in the tree growth, especially in the forests of the Southwest and
in California, Douglass noted that sequences in periods of rapid
THE SUN AND THE ATMOSPHERE—STETSON 169
growth of trees, as measured by the widths of their rings, follow
very closely the sequences in the sunspot cycle. Since variations in
tree growth suggest variations in precipitation, he has accumulated a
vast amount of evidence for alternations of wet and dry periods vari-
able with the sunspot cycle, carrying records backward for some
3,000 years. His studies appear to indicate that at least for selected
regions, trees have shown most growth when sunspots were most
numerous. It does not appear improbable, however, that the growth
of trees integrates all favorable conditions and that temperature, the
quality of sunlight, and particularly the percentage of ultraviolet
enter into the growth rate of trees as well as does rainfall.

Sunspot periods have also been traced with minor discrepancies in
the flow of rivers and the level of lakes, some regions responding
much more clearly than others to the sunspot cycle.

Altogether we see there are many indications that the earth responds
to the changing state of the sun over an interval of a little over 11
years and often by double this period or approximately 23 years.
Whether all of the effects produced in the earth and its atmosphere
that are noticed at sunspot maxima are the result of the sunspots
themselves or whether the state of the sun and its whole surroundings
are so activated as to change materially the cosmic environment of
the earth is a question still unanswered. Enough has been said to
indicate that it is eminently desirable to be able to predict sunspots
with all the accuracy that our somewhat scanty knowledge will permit.

Many attempts have been made to analyze the curve of sunspot
activity from the time of reliable records, which began in the middle
of the eighteenth century, up to the present time. Investigators
differ as to the number of significant periods which may enter into
the solar graph. In addition to the 11- and 23-year cycles, others of
37, 68, 77, 83, 252, 300, and even possibly as long as 1,400 years have
been assigned. Authorities are not in agreement as to the reality of
some of these intervals. Obviously we have hardly enough sunspot
records to be sure of any intervals of 100 years or more.

Somewhat over 2 years ago, on the basis of the occurrences of the
past cycles and the present rate in the rise in sunspots, I ventured to
predict that the next sunspot maximum would occur in the early part
of 1938, or more than a year before what would have been expected
by adding 11 years to the time of the last maximum. If subsequent
observations should prove my predictions correct, it would be one of
the pleasantest and most unexpected turns of fate for which a scientist
could hope. We have not yet an adequate basis for any degree of
precision in the sunspot prediction.

The sunspot records obtained during the last year already have out-
topped the records of 1917 and indeed all previous maxima subsequent
to that of 1870. It will be observed from the sunspot curve that in
170 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938

general alternate peaks are much more sharp in their formation than
the intervening ones. The long drawn-out maximum of 1927-29
should, therefore, be followed by a relatively sharp peak. With the
rapid rise upward during the last year and the high maximum of last
July, my own view is that the present maximum cannot carry beyond
1938 without a substantial trend downward in the average sunspot
numbers.

Mr. Clayton’s analysis of the sunspot cycle from 1750-1910 has
led him to attempt a prediction from 1910 to 1955, using only the
data accumulated previous to his predicted curve. The rather
remarkable correspondence between his predicted curve and the
observed curve from 1910 to date suggests that his independent fore-
cast for a maximum at the end of 1937 or the beginning of 1938 lends
an increased interest to the critical part of the curve in which we
find ourselves at present.

There is another important variation in the characteristic of sun-
spots of which we must not lose sight. This is the apparent drift in
the positions of the spots toward the solar equator as the cycle
progresses. At the beginning of the sunspot cycle the spots first
appear in the neighborhood of 35° either side of the sun’s equator.
This was exemplified in the case of the present sunspot cycle which
started in 1934 with high latitude spots. As the solar cycle advances,
the spots increase in number and tend to break out at progressively
lower latitudes on the sun. While there is some fluctuation back and
forth in latitude from day to day and month to month, the trend is
always toward the equator. As the sunspot period approaches the
maximum, the average latitude for the maximum number of spots is in
the vicinity of 15° both for the northern and the southern hemispheres.
After the maximum the spots decrease in size and number but they
continue to break out at decreasing latitudes. The end of the cycle
is marked by infrequent spots occurring when they are seen on either
side of the sun’s equator in latitudes ranging from 2° to 5°. By the
time this state is reached the next cycle has begun again with spots
breaking out once more in high latitudes.

This peculiar trend of latitude during the sunspot period is so far
without any adequate explanation. Observation of latitudes, how-
ever, helps very much in diagnosing where we may be with respect
to the sunspot cycle at the present time. The average latitude of the
spots of both hemispheres during the last 3 months has been 15.5°
and leads us to believe, therefore, that we are now very close to the
present sunspot maximum. By the end of 1938 it would appear that
we will find solar activity definitely on the down grade, in which case
the next sunspot minimum should arrive not far from 1944.

If we knew what was the cause of sunspots, it would help very much
in solving the mystery of the solar cycle and in predicting the future
17

SUN AND THE ATMOSPHERE—STETSON

THE

‘sUvOT SUIUUNI qUOUI-se1y,J, “e[oAd yodsuns jUeseld 94} UI o1e OA CIOY AA—'9 AUNYIT

8E6l. 9€6l VEGI ce6l 0€6! 86 9261 veél eel 0cé6l 816) 9161 vi6l

HP LPH

4

09

HEEL :
MIN ETE
MCC
ese

02!

4)

“ 09)

SYSEWNN LOdSNNS

e&
172 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938

behavior of the sun. Of course the spots are fundamentally due to
atmospheric disturbances in the surface layers of the sun. Whether
the cause of these disturbances is to be found entirely within the sun
itself, or whether there are extraneous causes for the phenomenal
changes in solar behavior, we do not yet know. The periodic nature
of the recurrences of sunspots has suggested to many that planets
in some way are the disturbing bodies, but thus far predictions of
sunspots based on planetary cycles have not met with much success.

Any complete theory of sunspots must obviously express not only
why they arise at more or less irregular intervals of about 11 years,
but also why the spots of a new series first appear at high solar lati-
tudes. It must also account for the progression of the spots toward
the solar equator as the cycle advances. Furthermore, since it is
definitely known that the magnetic character of the spots changes from

_—
w
Q

Forecast from Observed
Obse rved Sunspot Numbers Values 68 YearsEarlier

HT
CUNT
WUT ATTRA)

950 1915 1920 ©1925 1930 1935 1940 1945 1950 1955

FIGURE 7.—Clayton’s prediction of sunspot maxima based on 68-year period.

lo]
Oo

Sunspot Numbers
3

one cycle to the next, an explanation is needed for the change in
polarity of sunspots in alternate cycles. Professor Bjerknes, a Nor-
wegian meteorologist, has attacked the problem on theoretical grounds.
He supposes that there is an atmospheric circulation taking place
between the outer surface of the sun and the interior in such a way
that in the outer layer of the solar activity, the gases are flowing from
the poles to the equator. Near the equator he conjectures that they
fall below the surface and then travel northward to high latitudes
again. Gaining in temperature through their subsurface migration,
these currents rise again to the surface around latitude 40°, proceed
once more toward the equator, losing temperatures by radiation,
until they fall again into the interior when the solar equator is reached.
Accompanying such a circulation on a gigantic scale, the author of
this theory postulates that secondary whirls will arise extending into
tubular formation. Occasionally forced to the surface, the tube
breaks into two segments, the ends of which appear as a pair of sun-
spots. <A single spot would be the result of but one end of the tube
appearing at the surface.

To account for the change in polarity in alternate cycles, he supposes
that while one tubular formation is in progress, another vortex rotating
in the opposite direction exists in the lower region and is carried for-
THE SUN AND THE ATMOSPHERE—STETSON 173

ward to break out at high latitudes, characteristic of the next cycle.
He assumes it would take some 11 years for one family of tubular
vortices to descend from the high Jatitudes to the equator while the
second subsurface vortices with inverse polarity move northward for
the start of the new cycle.

While Bjerknes thus accounts for many of the well-observed pecu-
liarities of sunspots by this theory, he gives no satisfactory explana-
tion of the origin of these circulating tubes of gas nor is any attempt
made in his theory to account for the 11-year periodicity together
with the slight variation in this 11-year interval.

The question of what causes sunspots and why they wax and wane
in cycles is not yet answered. Most astrophysicists would dismiss
any attempt at predicting the cycle on the grounds that the chief
cause of sunspots lies within the sun itself and perhaps is inevitably
irregular in its action.

Many investigators, on the other hand, have held to the idea that
the tidal forces of the planets acting on the solar atmosphere may be
the ultimate cause of the cyclical disturbance. Attempts to predict
in advance sunspot maxima, however, on the basis of planetary
periods has not met with much success. There is one element, per-
haps, in any planetary theory of sunspots that so far as I am aware
has not been previously considered, and that is the part played by
the period of the sun’s rotation itself.

On the basis of any equilibrium tidal theory, we should expect that
the tide-producing force from any planet, no matter how feeble, should
produce two tidal bulges directly opposite. A given region in the
solar atmosphere, therefore, will be subject to two periods of tidal
stress during each revolution of the surface with respect to a given
planet. In the case of a slow-moving planet such as Jupiter, the
interval between these tidal stresses would be about 12.5 days at the
solar equator. If, now, there were a free period in the solar atmos-
phere very nearly equal to this forced period of 12.5 days, an oscilla-
tion might be set up which would ultimately reach a maximum and
then subside again unless the two periods were exactly commensurate.
The length of time between the times of maximum oscillation would
therefore depend upon the ratio of the free period of the solar atmos-
phere to that of the rotation of the sun with respect to the planet in
question.

It is conceivable that such an oscillation might reach a maximum
in the case of Jupiter in an interval of possibly as long as 11 years.
The fact that this interval might nearly equal the time of revolution
of Jupiter about the sun—11.8 years—would be merely a matter of
coincidence.

In the case of a more swiftly moving planet such as the Earth,
Venus, or Mercury, the rotation with respect to these nearer planets
174 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938

would consume a somewhat longer time and the interval between
periods of maximum oscillation of the solar atmosphere resulting
would be very different from what it is in the case of Jupiter. It
must be borne in mind that from the point of view of the tidal effect
on the sun, the tide-raising forces of Venus and Mercury and the
Earth are not much inferior to that of the planet Jupiter. When we
know more about the hydrodynamics of the solar atmosphere so that
it will be possible with reasonable assumptions to calculate the antici-
pated periods of free oscillations, we might then have a quantitative
method for testing the validity of such a hypothesis.

The theory lends itself to considerable elasticity since at higher
solar latitudes where the tangential tidal force is greatest, the period
of rotation of the sun is considerably longer than at the equator. One
might expect on such a hypothesis that the observed sunspot period
would be the resultant of several oscillatory waves set up by the sev-
eral planets. The composite curve might, under selected conditions,
have a mean period between maxima equal to the known sunspot
period of 11.3 years, and in many instances there would be wide vari-
ations from the mean of this cycle.

This theory would be consistent with the fact that the spots origi-
nate in the region of the 40° latitude zone where the tangential com-
ponent of the tidal forces tend to a maximum, and not inconsistent
with their subsequent migration toward the solar equator. Until a
mathematical treatment of free oscillations in the sun based upon more
information than is available at present can substantiate such a
hypothesis, we can but continue to speculate.

In the space of an hour we have seen a few of the important ways
in which the sun and the atmosphere with a balanced nicety provide
the essentials of life. We find that changes in the sun find quick
response in this atmospheric envelope which surrounds us. Climate,
weather, radio communication, and perchance terrestrial effects yet to
be discovered may some day become predictable through cycles that
follow law and order. Is it possible that astronomy, the oldest of
the sciences, which first intrigued man’s study of the sky in the hope
of guiding human destiny, may once more be turned again to earth
and, with the knowledge gained from suns and galaxies, lead mankind
to a more intelligent adjustment of life to its cosmic environment for
the betterment of all?

If such is but a dream, it is at least a dream well worth the quest.
We may surmise that in our search the guiding star of human destiny
will be the sun.
(AIOJBAIBSAO YOO) Jo adodsa[a} ABlOS 100J-OF ILM paydeis0j0y 4 )

“SAVIdSIG IWHYOUNY LNVIMINIYG GNY SWHOLS SILANOVW ONIGS9SYd ‘8E6l ‘GL ANNF AO SdNOUD LOdSNNS 3ADYW7 ONIMOHS ‘NOS AHL

| ALV Id w0sjaIS—"g¢6| ‘HOday ueRruOsyyIWG
Smithsonian Report, 1938.—Stetson PLATE 2

F OR APPLETON LAYER 200-500 Km

COSMIC RAYS
EATRATERRESTRIAL PART-~
{CLES (ELECTRONS?)

40 Km

@ Pilot balloon30 Km.
55°C STRATOSPHERE

@ Settle 1933 ee :
\
clouds ‘ sh

Ay” A

10Km Q&S Airplane limit 12 Km

} TROPOSPHERE pote a ane
10°C _ oicano

CROSS SECTION OF EARTH'S CRUST AND ITS ATMOSPHERE.
€ ALV 1d

(

A1048

AJOSqQ OST!

\ JUNoW ‘aospreyoy “g “yz Jo Aseqanog)
“ISHNEALNO YV1IOS LNATIOIA ANVdWOODOY SAONVEYNLSIG DILANOVW GNV SLNO

‘9¢61'B WdvY NO 3NIL 3NVS 3H lv ONINYNDDO SIVNDIS OldVY JO ino-30¥3 ¥ ONY
W314 OLLJNOVW S.HLUV3 3H1 JO JONVEYNISIO ¥ ‘NAS 3HL NO NOWdNYs LNVITUYS V

Or ,,dI

BAIL WAID HOIMN33Y9
x6? ,,9! 220,91

NOWULdGHI YY IOS 5
SS3NLHOING NI ea eee

BISVBYON! N3ZGONS

2% COO'S! OL 000'r
in0-3Cvs NOISSINSNYYi O10V8 ASN

ALISNSLNI Ni
3Sv34030 N300NS

3qv4 O1l0VHY

u0s}93S—'g¢6| ‘Wodey ueruosyzWUIG
Fy = a rales ye ;

AY ny >,

ees kg
et i

COSMIC RADIATION !

By P. M.S. Buacxertt, M. A., F. RB. S.
Professor of Physics, Birkbeck College, University of London

The study of cosmic radiation is rather a curious one. It is related
ultimately both to astronomy, to geophysics, and to physics. The
subject started about 1900 with the discovery by C. T. R. Wilson, and
by Elster and Geitel, that the air in a closed vessel had a slight residual
conductivity. The apparatus used for these early experiments con-
sisted of an ionization chamber. A simple form of this apparatus con-
sists in a metal box in which is suspended an insulated wire carrying
a gold leaf; when charged electrically, the movement of this leaf records
the electrical conductivity of the gas in the box. With such a simple
apparatus as this it was found that there was a residual conductivity
of the air, which could not be explained by the effects of the known
radioactivity of the earth’s crust, and which was probably due to the
presence of some very penetrating radiation. In fact, C. T. R. Wilson
himself, in 1901, speculated as to whether this residual ionization might
not be due to some radiation coming from sources outside the atmos-
phere, either electromagnetic radiation, like X-rays, or corpuscular
rays, Jike cathode rays, but of enormously greater penetrating power.
Since that time at least 1,000 researches have been made on the subject
of cosmic rays and a great many facts have been found out. We know
now that this residual ionization is, in fact, due to atomic particles of
enormous penetrating power coming into the earth’s atmosphere from
some sources outside the solar system, but exactly what these particles
are, or where they come from, or how they were formed, or when, we
still do not know.

In this first lecture I am going to describe mainly the researches on
cosmic rays which have been made with the ionization chamber as the
instrument for their detection. There are, in addition, two other
instruments by which these rays are detected and measured, and these
will form the subject of the two succeeding lectures.

Soon after the earliest experiments ionization chambers were taken
to different places on the earth to find out whether this residual ioni-
zation varied from place to place. Then a great series of experiments
began in which jonization chambers were taken up mountains, in
balloons, lowered down to the depths of the sea and carried in aero-

1 The first of three lectures delivered before the Royal Society of Arts. Reprinted by permission from the
Journal of the Royal Society of Arts, vol. 85, No. 4421, August 13, 1937.
175
176 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938

planes. The crucial experiments, which showed the cosmic nature
of the rays, were those of Hess in 1911 and 1912, who took ionization
chambers to a height of 5,000 m in balloons. Hess found that the
ionization due to therays was larger at a great height than at sea level.
This showed conclusively that the rays causing the ionization must
have come downward from the top of the atmosphere, and not upward

Ions per cm® per Second in standard air

FIGURE 1.—Atmospheric pressure (Piccard, Kipfer & Cosyns).

from the earth; for if they had come upward from the earth, they would
decrease in intensity by absorption as one went up. Hess also found
that the rays were equally intense both during the day and at night,
and also during an eclipse of the sun. This showed that the rays could
not come from the sun, because if they had, their intensity would be
much less at night, or during an eclipse. Thus it was these experi-
ments which led to the rays acquiring the name of ‘‘cosmic.”’
COSMIC RADIATION—BLACKETT 177

Since that time a very great number of experiments have been made
to find out how the cosmic radiation varies in intensity in the atmos-
phere. Perhaps the most beautiful of these, and the most successful,
have been the balloon flights of Regener and lately those of Millikan,
who send very light recording apparatus up to great heights by means
of small hydrogen-filled rubber balloons. A small ionization chamber,
which is made to record automatically the intensity of the rays on a
photographic plate, together with the barometric height and the
temperature, is made to weigh only a few pounds. This is enclosed in
a light frame covered with cellophane, which acts like an ordinary
greenhouse; the sun’s rays coming in through the cellophane get
degraded into heat and cannot get out again. In this way the appara-
tus is kept warm at about room temperature, even though the tem-
perature outside the apparatus is —50° centigrade. The rubber
balloons which are used to take the apparatus up have to be examined
very carefully for small pinholes, otherwise they are apt to burst
prematurely, before the desired height is reached. Professor Regener
sometimes has to stop up 100 or so tiny holes with rubber solution be-
fore using a balloon. With such an apparatus, heights of 30 km above
the surface of the earth have been reached, where the pressure of the
atmosphere is only about 1 percent of that at sea level. It is found
that the intensity of cosmic radiation is about 200 times as great as
on the ground, confirming, of course, the view of Hess that wherever
it is the rays come from it is at least outside the earth’s atmosphere.
Figure 1 shows a typical curve of the variation of the ionization with
the pressure of the atmosphere.

With similar, but much larger apparatus, the ionization due to
cosmic radiation has been studied under water, down to great depths.
Regener, again, has measured the ionization down to depths of 280 m
below the surface of Lake Constance, and finds that their intensity is
only about 1 percent of that at sea level. So from the bottom of
Lake Constance to the top of the stratosphere the intensity of cosmic
rays increases by a factor of over 10,000 to 1. The enormous pene-
tration of the rays, a penetration quite unexpected in the region of
atomic physics, leads naturally to the conclusion that the rays must
be of immense energy. The most penetrating atomic rays previously
known, the beta rays from radium, can only penetrate a few centi-
meters of water. Thus, the cosmic radiation is many hundred times
more penetrating, and is, therefore, likely to be very much more
energetic. In fact, it can be easily estimated that, to explain the very
great penetrating power of some of the rays, it is necessary to assume
energies up to 10" electron volts.

The next great series of experiments consisted in the carrying of
ionization chambers all over the world. Expeditions to the equator,
to near the north magnetic pole, expeditions on mountains and in
178

ships, all these have been used to find out how the intensity of cosmic
radiation varies with the latitude and longitude and the height of the
place of observation. This aspect of the study of cosmic rays can be

called the geophysical aspect and is, in fact, closely related to the
study of the variation of the earth’s magnetic field over the surface of
the earth. In figure 2 are shown the lines of equal cosmic ray inten-
sity—or isocosmic lines, as they are called—and these lines run very

ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938

cosy fy, TC TT
COA ABCTICTSU eT
| ESE iat ‘OE an

| sl
mera SBUNILESE He
IQ eV Sani atl HA
meee NMHC cay
ea TL
| ams Si ASE ater nora Gea
Sar
Pea * mao WEEN
Hosts a \AR LV
| Loew VT Aest TK
ee, al IReS Pak Ils
mieeernanruret LT
reenter TIT I [By
ane Al LL pa
Pee eer we L/L |
CRATE LLY |
LORRY: AME: PY
ee 22a

FIGURE 2.—Curves of equal cosmic-ray intensity (isocosms) showing approximate parallelism with parallels of geomagnetic latitude and with

curves of equal auroral intensity.

f
h
|
COSMIC RADIATION—BLACKETT 179

nearly parallel to the lines of equal geomagnetic latitude. They also
run nearly parallel to the lines of equal auroral frequency. The
explanation of this relation will be mainly left to the next lecture,
but can be given shortly by saying that the cosmic rays as they reach
the upper levels of the earth’s atmosphere are mainly electrically
charged particles of very great energy. These particles are deflected
by the magnetic field of the earth so as to reach regions of higher
latitude more easily than regions near the equator. This behavior is
very similar to that of the charged electrical particles which are held
to be the origin of the northern lights. In fact, the theory of the
aurora polaris, proposed many years ago by Birkeland and Stormer,

Tons per cm? per second

pitta dll 4 MAGH.

agi eo ete a ea eth ra 30 $0" 50° Go
Geomagnetic latitude (Clay)
FIGURE 3.

applies almost unchanged to cosmic radiation. The intensity of
cosmic radiation is found to be nearly constant from latitude 50°
north up to the poles, but decreases toward the magnetic equator,
the decrease amounting to about 15 percent. Figure 3 shows the
results obtained during a voyage from Southampton to Cape Town.
At greater heights, the increase from the equator to the poles is much
greater.

This study of the intensity of cosmic radiation at great heights and
in different latitudes is of the highest importance, but our knowledge
is at present extremely fragmentary and quite inadequate for many
purposes. In order to test theories as to the nature and behavior of

11472839 —13
180 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938

the rays, we really want to know the intensity of the cosmic radiation
from sea level right to the top of the atmosphere at all latitudes, but
so far it has not been possible to do many experiments of this type.

Apart from the free balloon ascents by the technique already
described, valuable results have been obtained by the use of manned
balloons. This technique was first developed by Professor Piccard.
It is well known that it is not possible to live at a height above, say,
20,000 feet, without the use of oxygen—at least, if one cannot spend
a long time acclimatizing oneself to the reduced pressure. One can
go to a height of 40,000 feet or so if one breathes oxygen instead of
air, but one cannot go very much higher, even breathing pure oxygen,
unless one keeps up the pressure of the body artificially. There are
two ways of doing this: one can place oneself, as did Professor Piccard,
in a metal gondola, generally of spherical shape, which is sealed up
and retains the pressure on the body above that of the air outside.
The other method is to use a pressure suit, that is a suit rather like a
diver’s suit, but in which the pressure is kept above that of the atmos-
phere. This method was used in setting up the recent altitude record
for aeroplanes. With the former method Piccard and his collaborators
and also some other investigators in America have reached heights up
to 18 km, carrying elaborate and heavy apparatus with them. In
one such flight from Belgium, which ended up somewhere in Central
Europe, Dr. Cosyns measured the variation of the intensity of cosmic
rays as he floated across Europe at a height of some 12 km. He found,
much to his surprise, that the cosmic radiation remained constant
from about 51° north to about 49° north, and then dropped suddenly
as he went farther away from the poles. This critical latitude of 49°
north, above which the cosmic radiation remains constant, is of great
importance in all cosmic ray theory. We have to try and explain
exactly why the cosmic rays remain constant north of this latitude
both at sea level and at great heights. At present there is no satis-
factory explanation of these facts.

The next part of the study of cosmic radiation to be described is how
the intensity varies with the time. Experiments have been made
over periods of years to see if the cosmic radiation is quite constant or
if, and how, it varies, Some results are shown in figure 4. The soft
components of radiation, that is the part of the radiation which has
not a very great penetrating power, does show an appreciable variation
with the time of day. There is a slight maximum about midday of
the order of a few percent of the whole intensity. But when the soft
radiation is filtered out by means of thick lead screens, the remaining
penetrating component is found to be almost constant. The figure
shows that this penetrating component does not vary more than a
fraction of 1 percent throughout the day; that is, when the results
are averaged over a very large number of days. This again shows, as
COSMIC RADIATION—BLACKETT 181

did the early experiments of Hess, that the radiation cannot come
from the sun—at least, if it travels in straight lines—for if it came
from the sun it would be very much more intense by day than by
night. One can, in fact, conclude from the constancy of the radiation
with time that the rays,
as they reach the earth,
must be isotropic; that
is, they must be com-
ing from all directions
equally; for if they were
coming from any one di-
rection predominantly,
then since the earth is
rotating, any part of the
earth’s surface would
receive more radiation
when it was facing the
direction from which
more rays were coming.
Thus, the constancy in
time of the rays implies
their isotropy in space.
Now this is one of the
most difficult things to
explain about the cos-
mic rays, for it is very
difficult to find plausible
sources for the rays
which are uniformly dis-
tributed with regard to
the earth. As has been
mentioned already, the
sun is obviously ex-

Intensity of cosmic rays

cluded as a possible 0 6 12 18 24 hrs.
origin, but so also are Solar time  (Messerschmidt)
the stars of our galactic Figure 4.—Absorber.
system, for these are far 1. None. 4. Absorber 3 cm Pb.

: : 2. Absorber 0.5 em Pb. 5. Absorber 10 cm Pb.
from being uniformly 3. Absorber 1.5 cm Pb. 6. Absorber 20 cm Pb.

distributed around the

earth. If one looks at the night sky one sees a great concentration
of stars which we call the Milky Way. ‘There are many times more
stars in this direction than in a direction at right-angles, so if the
rays came from the stars of the Milky Way there would be a greater
intensity of the rays when the Milky Way is overhead. This means
that the rays would show a variation witb sidereal time, but careful
182 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938

investigations have shown that there is very little variation indeed.
There is a small effect, which will be discussed later, which is of great
importance and which has only recently been detected, but the varia-
tion with sidereal time is very much less than would be expected if the
stars of the Milky Way were the origin of the rays.?

Now all the stars that one sees with the naked eye, or can be seen
even with a large telescope, are members of a huge group of stars
called the galactic system. This system contains some 30,000
million stars. These stars form a kind of huge flattened disk, of
which the size can be roughly estimated as being 60,000 light years in
diameter and 5,000 light years thick. It may be noted that a light
year, which is the unit of distance often used by astronomers, is the
distance traveled by a ray of light in a year, and is about 10% km.
About 90 percent of the matter in the galactic system lies in this
central flattened disk, about half consisting of stars and about half
of diffuse matter and of gas. The earth is situated somewhere near
tke central plane of the disk, but about 20,000 light years from its
center. This whole galactic system constitutes a huge nebula analo-
gous to, but probably rather larger than, the great spiral nebula in
Andromeda. There is a great central condensation of stars near
its center which lies toward the constellation of Sagittarius, this
constellation lying in about the thickest part of the Milky Way. In
recent years it has been discovered that the whole galactic system is
in rotation, making one complete revolution in about 250 million
years. Since the earth lies so far from the center, it is traveling
through space with a very large velocity, amounting approximately
to about 300 km per second. It can be shown that the effect of this
large velocity is to make the intensity of cosmic radiation slightly
greater on the side of the earth which faces the direction of motion,
as compared with the opposite side. Just in the same way as more
raindrops are found on the windscreen of a moving car than on the
back window, so the motion of the earth is revealed by the greater
intensity of cosmic rays on one side. This fact was predicted by
Compton, and has been recently found experimentally. The varia-
tion is quite small, being less than 1 percent in magnitude, but it seems
fairly clear from the measurements of Hess and Steinmaurer Schon-
land and of Kohlhérster, that the predicted variation does really exist.
This is a very important result, for it confirms the view, that I have
mentioned above, that the cosmic radiation cannot have its origin
in our own galaxy. Figure 5 shows the results of the variation with
sidereal time which confirm Compton’s predictions. *

2 Note in proof, February 1939-—It is now thought that there may be a sufficiently large magnetic field
throughout the galaxy to deflect the rays very considerably. If this is the case, the above argument is in-
valid, and so the galaxy still remains a possible place of origin of the rays.

8 Note in proof, February 1939.—More recent measurements and calculations have thrown great doubt on
the existence of a variation with siderial time of the magnitude demanded by Compton’s theory.
COSMIC RADIATION—BLACKETT 183

It is of interest to note that if the earth had been completely covered
with cloud so that no stars could ever have been seen, it would still
have been possible to show that the earth was moving very rapidly
toward a certain direction in the heavens, or, more accurately, moving
relative to something, the only property of the something being the
power of producing cosmic rays. We will take it, therefore, that it is
experimentally demonstrated that the cosmic rays are of extragalactic
origin.

We must, therefore, seek for some extragalactic origin for the rays
which is uniformly distributed all round the earth. Now there are
such bodies—in fact, the whole universe is filled with nebulae—and
these nebulae are, in fact, nearly uniformly distributed around us.

: °
71.10 f °

an
-
2
Oo
ao

Intensity, percent sbove me
9 ?
°
les
°
LE

Oe
ce) ie is i3) 6
Sidereal Time

FicurRr 5.—Percentage variation in intensity of the cosmic rays with sidereal time. Curve, predicted
effect due to galactic rotation. Data, Hess and Steinmaurer; open circles, half-hour means; solid circles,
3-hour means (Compton).

Each nebula may be considered to be another galaxy similar in prin-
ciple to our own, but in general of rather smaller size. But if we
imagine that these nebulae are the origin of the cosmic rays, we meet
with a great difficulty, for it has been shown that the rays do not
come from our own galaxy, so why should they come from any other
galaxy? These nebulae are of widely different types, but it seems
probable that these different forms represent mainly different stages
in very similar life histories. The youngest nebulae seem to consist
of a great mass of diffuse gas which gradually condenses into stars,
and develops finally, in many cases, into a spiral form such as is
shown by the great nebula of Andromeda. Our galaxy is probably
a nebula of this last type. Thus, it is, of course, possible that the
184 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938

cosmic rays are produced by nebulae in the early stages of their
existence, but not in the later stages such as our galaxy is in now.

There is another reason why the cosmic rays are unlikely to be
produced by the stars in ordinary nebulae. ‘This is the fact that the
outside layers of nearly all stars are rather similar. These outside
layers consist of a gaseous envelope at a temperature of, say, between
5,000 and 20,000 degrees centigrade. Now since we know that the
sun does not produce cosmic rays, it is difficult to see why other stars,
which have rather similar surface conditions, should do so. There
are exceptions to this general similarity of the outside of the stars.
The White Dwarfs are very small but very dense stars, and have
surface conditions which are very different from that of our sun, and
so might conceivably be considered possible origins for the rays. It
must be remembered that cosmic rays, although very penetrating
from our terrestrial standpoint in that they can penetrate some thou-
sand meters of water, cannot be considered penetrating from the
point of view of a stellar atmosphere. Any cosmic ray which was
produced inside a star would never get out. It is thus clear that it
is only from the outer layers of a star that the rays could come, and
these outer layers are nearly all alike.

Many other possible explanations of the origin of the rays have
been given, but none put forward hitherto seem very plausible. It
is possible, of course, that the rays have their origin in electric fields
in extragalactic space, but there is no real reason to believe that such
fields exist, and it is difficult, perhaps, to explain on this basis the
isotropy of the rays. Then, Swann has suggested that they have
their origin in sunspots—not sunspots in the sun, of course, but
postulated spots in giant stars.

Milne has predicted the existence of rays of very great energy from
his cosmological theory. This theory requires also the existence of
uncharged particles as well as electrically charged particles.

Zwicky and Baade have sought the origin of the rays in the super-
novae, that once every few hundred years appear in every nebula
and grow to huge intensity for a period of a few weeks. Another
class of suggested origins are the archeological hypotheses. The
arguments in favor of these views are roughly as follows. It is
very hard to find an origin here and now in the universe for the cosmic
rays, so perhaps they were formed at the very beginning of time when
the world was quite young and, supposedly, very different. It is,
of course, obvious that if they have come from a very great distance
they must have their origin in the distant past. Lemaitre is an
exponent of one of these theories. He supposes that the rays have
their origin in some kind of superradioactive process from a single
primeval nucleus, from which has developed the universe as we know
it now; but, as there does not seem to be any possibility as yet of
COSMIC RADIATION—BLACKETT 185

testing or distinguishing between these numerous rival hypotheses,
it is probably not worth while spending very much time on such
speculation. One more ingenious origin may, however, be mentioned.
It has been suggested by Alfvén that the rays arise from a kind of
stellar cyclotron formed by the rotation of a double star. It is
supposed that the combination of an electric field of one component
of the double star, together with its magnetic field, may lead to the
possibility of stable orbits for high-speed electrons very similar in
principle to the orbits in the cyclotron of Lawrence; but here again
no definite test of this hypothesis is possible.
ig ain

wernt rhs hea

ce ‘i tt ict

Tu

A WORLD OF CHANGE!

By Epwarp R. WEIDLEIN
Mellon Institute of Industrial Research, Pittsburgh, Pa.

THE most interesting address that I could deliver to our radio audi-
ence would be to pick out at random from this distinguished group of
chemists individual persons and describe their work to illustrate the
application of science which has transformed the world. Here are
gathered scientists from all parts of the United States, as well as
representatives from foreign countries, to exchange ideas, and in their
presence it would not take one long to realize that something startlingly
new and extremely important is happening in the world.

Their gathering is important, and every university, research organi-
zation, and industry should be represented. Every chemist realizes
that scientists stand upon the shoulders of their predecessors. It is for
this reason that their gain is exceptionally rapid. A scientific prin-
ciple once established becomes the property of all science; a piece of
apparatus once constructed becomes a pattern for later apparatus of
the same kind.

These leaders in the fields of science are the real authors of history.
Their work is having more fundamental effects than all the laws that
have been enacted or all the armies that have ever marched in triumph.
The benefits that flow from their achievements are not limited by race
or creed or political boundaries or even by time. They provide
physical comforts for all men and gradually free their bodies from
disease and their minds from the terrors of superstitions. They give
their fellow scientists enchanting new views into the regions they
explore.

That this influence does not die with the individual is clearly illus-
trated by the life of Charles Frederick Chandler, whose one hundredth
birthday will be celebrated at Columbia University in October. Dr.
Chandler was one of the founders of the American Chemical Society
on April 6, 1876, and served as its president in 1881, He knew how,
as few others who have lived, to open the portals of chemistry to a
pleasing and attractive vista. He aroused curiosity and ardor. He

1 Address of the president of the American Chemical Society, Rochester meeting, September 9, 1937.
Reprinted by permission from Science, vol. 86, No. 2229, September 17, 1937.

187
188 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938

was a mighty force in the introduction of chemistry into medicine.
Wherever we go we find traces of this remarkable man—in industry,
in sanitation, in the household and in the improvement, comfort, and
safety of living. He was a great teacher, and his boys were his con-
stant delight and ever-present care.

If one were to probe the methods of an intent, aproned man busy
with the test-tubes, Bunsen burners, flasks, and reagents in a chemical
laboratory, he would hear a story fashioned of numbers. Strange that
the infinite variety of the universe can be resolved into a series of
numbers! But to the chemist there is little that is strange about it.
Nature has demonstrated that the seemingly endless variety of cosmic
phenomena, ranging from microscopic dust particles to gigantic stellar
systems, is, after all, superficial. For chemistry has reduced the
universe to 92 chemical elements or kinds of atoms, starting with
simple hydrogen and going up the atomic scale to uranium, the most
complex element known. All that we see about us can be resolved
into these elements. The fascinating realm of nature, from the log
that blazes in one’s fireplace to the snowcapped mountain chain that
lures in summer, is built up from these elements and their various
combinations—evidence of the infinite variety of ways in which atoms
and molecules can be joined together. Joined in one way, they make
a useful textile; in another, a nourishing food.

Not satisfied with the world as they see it, scientists have set their
hands and minds to the task of changing the creations of nature or
making new products which nature neglected to make. Nature makes
her compounds for general purposes, and is not aware of industrial,
scientific, nor medical needs. Hence nature is not perfect because not
omniprovident, and the chemist often finds it necessary to improve on
nature. Already he has prepared artificially a vast number of sub-
stances that nature never dreamed of making, including dyes un-
matched by any flower, alloys that were not created when the earth
was a cooling fiery ball, artificial silk and woolen fibers, stronger drugs
and sweeter perfumes wrung from such a surprising source as coal-tar.
Many products of life processes and a much larger number of new
compounds related to them have been made by the chemist. He is
changing life more rapidly and inexorably than ever before, and all
about us are heard glowing words about ‘‘the new synthetic age.”’

Our future, to a large extent, is in these innocent-looking but alJ-
powerful test-tubes that you will see neatly arranged, row upon row, in
any laboratory.

If Aristotle were living today amid our chemical successes, his
childhood belief in fairy stories probably would be reborn. ‘The Greek
philosopher interpreted the universe in only four elemental forms of
matter—earth, air, water, and fire. These elements represented the
four properties of dryness, cold, wetness, and warmth. Thus Aristotle
A WORLD OF CHANGE—WEIDLEIN 189

taught that all substances were composed of some sort of primordial
stuff in combination with various amounts of the four elementary
properties.

Out of Aristotle’s doctrine of the elements grew the fascinating but
futile work of the alchemists, who dreamed vainly of converting base
metals into valuable gold. But, though futile, the efforts of the al-
chemists were not altogether fruitless. Modern chemistry had its
beginnings in the mystical vaporings that characterized their gloomy,
dimly lighted workshops, full of strange vessels, spheres, portions of
skeletons hanging from the ceiling and massive parchment books
covered with hieroglyphics. Alchemy may be compared to the man
who told his sons that he had left them gold buried somewhere in his
vineyard. The sons dug deeply and earnestly, but found no gold.
Their cultivation of the soil, however, produced a plentiful vintage.
Similarly, the earnest but unsuccessful search for the transmutation of
base metals into gold brought to light many useful discoveries and
instructive experiments.

These by-products of alchemy—chance discoveries of chemical
elements, compounds and principles—were more important than the
search for artificial gold.

The first investigator to grasp the significance of the value of
chemistry as a separate science was Robert Boyle, whose publication
of The Skyptical Chymist in 1661 is often regarded as marking the
beginning of modern chemistry. Paracelsus, celebrated by Robert
Browning, broke with the monks and alchemists, assailed the physi-
cians who treated chickenpox with the aid of a soup made of the hearts
and livers of vipers, and laid crudely the foundation of modern medical
chemistry. Becher conceived of phlogiston as the active principle of
fire. The downfall of the phlogiston theory began with the work of
Joseph Priestley, preacher and scientist, who succeeded in isolating
and identifying oxygen.

Before even Priestley, however, was Cavendish, shy, eccentric
misanthrope, who played with chemical apparatus and weighed the
earth, in preference to spending his wealth, and who won immortality
as the first experimenter to reduce water to hydrogen and oxygen.
But it was Lavoisier, later snatched from his laboratory by the French
police to die under the guillotine, who molded chemistry into a science.
The brilliant Frenchman, science’s greatest loss to the Reign of
Terror, formulated what is now known as the “law of the conservation
of matter.”’ This fundamental law states that in every chemical
reaction the weight of the products is exactly equal to the weight of
the substances which entered the reaction. Lavoisier also made a
list of 33 chemical elements, explained the chemistry of fire and
infused into the body of science a new spirit for accurate and patient
measurement.
190 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938

To ponder on the future life of man and on the ability of science to
mold and reform the future is to lift oneself to a plane of high buoyance.
In the words of the Ear! of Balfour, in an address he made as president
of the British Association, ‘“The satisfaction it gives is almost esthetic
in its intensity and quality. We feel the same sort of pleasurable
shock as when, from the crest of some melancholy pass, we first see
far below us the sudden glory of plain, river and mountain.”

What woman or man but is interested in tomorrow? Judged by
the scientific marvels of the present day, what an age it will be!

Photographs by radio; machines that seem to think; lights that
pierce fog; gas made from water; cameras recording lightning bolts
and taking pictures in the dark; 5-million-volt guns smashing atoms
to wrest new secrets from nature.

News put into type by direct wire; machines to administer anesthet-
ics, record telephone calls, and measure the billionth of an inch; other
machines to measure the smoothness of roads and record the nature of
accidents; ways to “‘hear’’ ight and “‘see’’ sound.

Fantastic? Yes, but they’re here.

These, and more, we have—although our elders would have scoffed
if they had been told that these things would come. But a plane
roaring from ocean to ocean between sunrise and sunset is nothing new.
People talk across the ocean every day by telephone. The time may
come when women will match fabrics by television, when their
kitchens will make present-day luxury seem like the drudgery our
erandmothers endured.

It is impossible, however, to fathom truly what tomorrow may be
like. Only the rare human mind can free itself from the fetters of
today’s accepted forms and think in new terms of a different age.
The first automobiles were cranked by hand. They broke many an
arm, but people accepted the fact because no mechanical way of
starting a car could ever work. Yet research, using a sleeve with
threads like a screw, found a way to crank the motor; it had never
dawned on science that it couldn’t be done!

The pace of the advance has quickened. The resources of science,
more closely knit, have speeded progress amazingly in the past 25
years. That pace will not slacken so long as human needs must be
met. If what has happened already seems incredible, what are we
likely to see in the not-distant future?

For we know full well that tomorrow probably won’t resemble this
age in the least. Too many ‘‘impossibilities’’ have come true in our
own life-span. We have not yet forgotten that ‘‘man will never fly’’;
that conversing without wires was labeled an absurdity; that “nothing
can ever be done” about typhoid, tuberculosis, or malaria.

Yet men have flown around the world, talked by wireless across
the seas, stamped out plagues. The oxcart has made way for the
A WORLD OF CHANGE—WEIDLEIN 191

soaring plane; the laboring locomotive for its silent, streamlined
cousin; the mechanical music box for the miracle of radio.

A finger moves a dial and invokes the human voice. But the tele-
phone is an old story. Manufactured ice and mechanical refrigera-
tion come instantly to the rescue in hot midsummer days. But we
already forget the waste and illness of the era before man-made refriger-
ation. The photograph of a distinguished visitor spans the continent
in a few seconds. Telephoto, too, however, becomes prosaic. A
modern dryad wears a gown that last year was part of a tree. Yes,
but we grow to expect beautiful new fabrics from the commonest
substances, even glass.

If yesterday’s miracles are today’s commonplaces, what an age
tomorrow may be, with science as its constant guide, insistent on
solving human needs, making the improbable come true.

What kind of homes, for instance, shall we be living in by 2000
A. D.? What kind of furnishings shall we have? How shall we heat
our homes? Shall we all be living in the country or in some new kind
of city? What kinds of recreation ishall we have? What kinds of
planes, automobiles, trains? What kinds of bridges, tunnels, viaducts,
ramps? What materials and substances shall we wear and eat? How
much leisure shall we have for the art of living? We dare not more
than guess.

For most prophecy is untrustworthy. We all are too likely to
project the present into the future, forgetting that the future may go
clear around us, or scrap much that we accept. Scientists speak
casually of harnessing the winds for power, of drawing upon the heat
of the sun, of using even the surge of the tides for power to replace
fuel that by then may be gone. Laws will not prevent men from
thinking. And so long as they think, so long as they refuse to accept
the present age as perfect, advances will be made.

Back of all change is the wholesome spirit of discontent. There
must be a way to make a better stocking, to create a more durable
fabric, to make a better dust pan than those now sold. Dissatisfaction
with something less than perfection, desires for something better,
refusal to accept things as they are—these are the urges that lead to
improvement. These, and a special quality of open-mindedness that
keeps the present from closing the door to the future.

Chemistry is constantly seeking through research natural facts on
which to base new truths, which bring about these changes. But she
cannot invoke them alone, without the aid of her sister sciences, any
one of which may at any moment find a new bit of knowledge which
will lead the others along new trails. This world-wide collaboration
is really the hope of scientific progress today.

Modern research is characterized by its complexity and the variety
of phases which it presents. Ip the latter half of the past century and
192 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938

the beginning of the present, it was still possible for an individual,
working alone, with comparatively limited facilities, to achieve epoch-
making results in the borderline fields of research. The surface has
now been well explored and it is consequently necessary to probe
deeper and to enlist the cooperation of trained specialists in such
widely diversified fields as chemistry, physics, biology, and engineering.
Elaborate equipment and apparatus are now required for the conduct
of researches, for they must be performed on a mathematically correct
basis with constant control of all variables.

There were ages when science moved haltingly or drooped in dis-
couragement beneath the indifference of hostile rulers and super-
stitious peoples.

Today the speed of communications alone has woven the world of
science more tightly, so that each bit of fresh knowledge is known
everywhere as soon as it is proved. It no longer takes months for a
new fact or method to filter from nation to nation, cr years for it to
be practically applied.

Considering the accelerated pace of recent years and the rate at
which science has revolutionized our daily lives, it would be easy to sit
back complacently and call this an age of scientific miracles, to remark
that we had reached the ultimate in development, that there could
be no more worlds to conquer.

It would be easy to say it, but your chemist, above all men, could
tell you it is not true. He knows that chemistry, though brilliant its
gains, has only scratched the surface—knows how pitifully meager is
the hoard of knowledge so far acquired. In physics, in chemistry, in
engineering, in medicine—the dearth of knowledge is the same. The
swift progress that has been made must not make us overconfident
and lose us that humility which we must retain if we are to be dispas-
sionate searchers after truth.

If we take the time to glance back through the pages of history, we
can see how easily each age has fallen into the error of believing that it
represented the ultimatein civilization. Therewasa time when Europe,
steeped in its troubles, guessed of no new land or opportunity like
America. The Middle Ages seemed highly developed to its own
peoples, but most of the great inventions and discoveries of science
have come long since then. Even as late as 1900, millions felt that we
had gained as much from science as we were likely to win. Yet in
the short span of 35 years we have seen the first “red-devil” auto-
mobile become a necessity for the masses, turn transportation ideas
upside down, revolutionize our industrial structure. We have seen
radio burst upon the world and link distant lands by new seven-league
boots. We have seen early ventures in flight give another dimension
to transport. Television next, and meanwhile scores of new products,
new foods, new industries of which, a generation ago, no one guessed.
A WORLD OF CHANGE—WEIDLEIN 193

Wonders indeed! Yet science realizes how truly little headway has
been made, how much more remains to be done.

Scientific research is still young, even in the life of the universities,
which are primarily responsible for its existence. Having gained the
spirit of research from the universities, the industries have applied its
methods to their own affairs with really amazing results. During the
last 25 years the number of industrial research laboratories in the
United States has grown from a very few to more than 2,000, which
accounts for the great change that has taken place in our standard of
living. It was chemistry, perhaps more than any other science, that
taught business men the true significance of pure and applied research.

Without the evolution of scientific investigations in the universities,
industrial laboratories might never have come into existence. Be-
sides the very idea of research, the universities have furnished the
industries with men possessing knowledge not only of the underlying
scientific facts and theories but of the methods and techniques of in-
vestigational work. The man with a true scientific mind is always
open to change. From the universities also proceeds much of the
basic knowledge of science on which the industries of today have been
built and which will be the foundation for the industries of the future.
Accordingly, this essential contributory part of our universities should
be recognized and nurtured by the industries. Colleges and schools
have invested some $300,000,000 in chemical buildings and equipment.
Real progress is made through the cooperation of pure science,
industrial research, and the industrialists.

The expenditures for industrial research in this country have in-
creased steadily. The chemical industry, the largest cultivator and
supporter of research, has enlarged its expenditures on laboratory
investigations; the food industry has likewise increased its appropria-
tions for research. The metal-working field, which during the depres-
sion stopped much of its research, is now resuming laboratory investi-
gations on a large scale. Researches have lately been accelerated in
the fields of building materials, air conditioning, synthetic fibers,
organic chemicals, plastics, ‘tray’ agriculture, and new sources of
motor fuel.

It may, moreover, be observed that the industries which engaged to
the largest extent in scientific research emerged from the depression
first and did the most to aid national recovery.

It must be remembered that it is only through applied knowledge
that the people have gained the material blessings of our civilization.
Every useful agent in our civilization is the product of our industry,
and it is only through the industries that these new products of civili-
zation can go to the people. New mechanisms, such as the telegraph,
the telephone, the electric light, the X-ray, new medicines, dyes, and
new alloys come to us only through the industries. We often hear it
194 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938

said that some man eminent in science has “given” his results to the
people. That is, in nearly every instance, nonsense. Réntgen’s dis-
covery of X-rays, upon which he took out no patents, could go to the
people only by the use of X-ray bulbs, and these X-ray bulbs were
manufactured and improved by various corporations, through whose
factories they went to the people.

The classical example is, of course, the work of Faraday, on electro-
magnetic induction, on which is based ultimately the whole immense
development of the electrical industry; a development not achieved, of
course, without an enormous amount of capital and directed industrial
research.

We are thinking, too, of industry not only depending upon many
sciences but being in a real sense science itself. Science pursued in
this broad manner will enrich itself and the world. The true manu-
facturing function consists in making the best thing possible in the
most economical way. It does not mean practicing the art through
the best tradition, but means pursuing the art with the aid of modern
scientific knowledge. A good illustration is in the field of synthetic
organic chemistry. The development of organic materials of pre-
determined characteristics to fill definite needs in industry has been
employed on a wide-scale only in recent years. The more common
uses, such as the acetylene flame for cutting or joining metal shapes in
the steel industry or the use of glycerol trinitrate or trinitro toluol as
detonation agents in mining operations, are generally known. How-
ever, a wholly new degree of change is being brought about by inter-
weaving of synthetic organic chemicals with other products. National
defense against human aggressors as well as sanitary defense against
microorganisms in their modern forms depend largely on synthetic
organic chemicals as key products. The modern automobile and air-
plane, the outstanding accomplishments of the twentieth century to
date, would be far from their present standard of excellence without
the regulating effect of the synthetic products used in their construc-
tion and operation. Antiknock fuels, special lubricants, durable
tires and other rubber goods, antifreeze materials, lacquer coatings,
safety glass, brake fluids, plastic products, among other features, have
permitted the remarkable degree of perfection and low cost which
these unique products of our generation have attained. A new ali-
phatic organic chemical industry was created just prior to the depres-
sion and has had a rapid and continuous growth since 1929.

Research in the metallurgical industry has resulted in metals with-
out which the production of these new aliphatic organic chemicals,
and other processes, needing to be worked at high pressures and high
temperatures, would have been impossible.

Chemistry has likewise played a major role in the production of
better and cheaper motor fuel. Cracking, hydrogenation, polymeriza-
A WORLD OF CHANGE—WEIDLEIN 195

tion became common terms in the industry. The increasing demand
for power plants has resulted in more severe conditions for the lubri-
cants used. Automobile and airplane engine oils are exposed to high
temperatures and greater loads each time there is an increase in the
horsepower yield per cubic inch of cylinder capacity. Under these
severe conditions oils are more likely to deteriorate and fail in service.
Some progress is being made in the development of addition agents to
oils for increasing the oiliness and film strength under severe condi-
tions. By analogy with the well-established practice of adding anti-
oxidants to gasoline to prevent gum formation, there is a development
under way for adding antioxidants and similar inhibitors to lubricating
oils. These may serve to prevent the formation of sludge by oxidation
or to prevent corrosion of bearing surfaces, this by some mechanism
not yet understood. It is possible that some of these difficulties may
be eliminated by change of the engine design so that the lubricants
will not be punished so severely. However this may develop, it is
interesting to note that chemical research is suggesting a remedy for
the engineering diffiiculty—difficulties caused by over-rapid engineering
advances.

Our home-construction industry has received much criticism during
recent years, and, as the basis of value received for cost and effort,
it must be conceded that this criticism is largely deserved. Here is
a field that has possibilities of a “world of change.” That such a
subject has reached the stage of public discussion, however, indicates
that improvement has already begun. Our homes may not seem to
us to be a chemical project but, in countless applications of plastic
materials, quick-drying lacquers, and synthetic fibers, we may con-
fidently expect new types of assembly to emerge with greatly reduced
costs while giving sanitary, noiseless, fireproof, moisture-proof, and
vermin-proof construction, in keeping with known possibilities. Let
us take a simple example such as a cookstove. Practically every
housewife complains of cooking over a hot stove in the summertime,
and conditions are almost as difficult any time during the year. This
inconvenience is caused by waste heat, which, if scientifically con-
trolled, would eliminate the discomfort, economize on the fuel bill, and
also save time. There has recently been constructed a stove along
these scientific lines, using both new and old materials, which will give
a heat efficiency of 80 percent instead of the average yield of 20 percent.
In other words, 8 pounds of coal will cook sufficient food for a family
of 12 per day. You are quite likely to see on the market in the future
a combination coal cookstove and refrigerator in which the waste heat
from the cook stove will operate the refrigeration unit. Glassware
for cooking purposes has become a common article of commerce, but
there was a time when glass was used only for windows and for orna-
mental purposes. The new tunnel under the Hudson River is to be

114728—39——14
196 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938

lined with glass. The first all-glass building was recently constructed
in North Carolina, and others are under construction. Glass in
fibrous form will find its most widespread application as an insulating
material for use in construction. Textiles made from glass, because
of their resistance to acids, heat, and moisture, should find a variety
of applications in both homes and industry. It is interesting to
observe, however, that some of these new products are the ripening
fruit of seeds planted many years ago. New mechanical devices and
new application of basic scientific principles have made practicable
the evolution of these new products. A good illustration is tempered
glass, which was experimented with as early as 1875, and has only
recently become a commercial product. The mechanical ice box did
not come into its own until chemistry supplied the proper refrigerants.
The home-construction industry can hardly yet be said to have
started its real race.

It is believed that through orderly and persistent research industry
will also be able to absorb much of the surplus crops of American
farms. Cellulose is ‘“‘stored sunshine.” The alchemists talked of
storing sunshine, the English speculators of the time of John Law
floated companies for the purpose, the chemical industry of the future
will harness sunshine in the form of agricultural byproducts and con-
vert them into useful materials.

A striking aspect of the march of organized research is the emphasis
in recent years on staple commodities, particularly those of agricul-
tural origin, as industrial raw materials. New products have nat-
urally been forced to pave their way to public acceptance by technical
information obtained in the laboratory. The volumes involved in
each case were, of course, at first small, in fact so insignificant that
they were disregarded by the industries they were affecting. Change
is too often considered as a sudden movement, which is misleading,
as it is more often a gradual evolution.

To state the situation another way, new products were continually
coming into prominence through the pressure of research, while the
materials they were in part displacing lacked the informative back-
eround necessary to meet this aggressive competition.

As a tangible example, the case of cotton may be mentioned. All
the world is familiar with the giant strides of rayon, its ‘‘college-
trained” rival. On top of such competition comes the falling off of
export volume, as a result of increasing quantities of cotton grown
abroad.

Forward-looking men with constructive ideas on means of improving
the economic condition of the South see here a great need for a vigorous
research program of the cotton industry. Many of our Southern
States are dependent on this one crop, and their people are trained,
their industries are geared to a one-crop economy,
A WORLD OF CHANGE—WEIDLEIN 197

It is significant that developments in increasing the utilization of
cotton have in the past been made almost altogether without any
concerted action or conscious direction on the part of the cotton
industry. This situation encourages one to believe that systematic,
cooperative effort on the part of growers, manufacturers, and various
research organizations, in developing new uses for cotton and in ex-
panding present uses, should be much more effective in stimulating
increased demand than haphazard, individual effort.

Sugar is another product that is vital in our national economic and
social system. Sugar occupies an important place in the normal diet
of all the people. It likewise is one of the cheapest, purest raw ma-
terials available upon which to base a new chemical industry. This
new industry is now in the process of evolution, and today chemicals
made from sugar are entering into our industrial processes to produce
new and better products.

The scientists are doing the fundamental work. Industry is pion-
eering the commercialization of these new products, and eventually
the agriculturist will have to supply the raw material because of the
new demand created. So one often may know where a research be-
gins, but rarely where it will end.

All this requires knowledge, will, and action. The knowledge
which will find these new uses is a product of research. It will come
out of the laboratory where the chemist is breaking down the raw
materials we call cotton, sweetpotatoes, and corn into cellulose and
starch and these again into the tiny atoms of which they are consti-
tuted. It is these atoms that are the chemist’s raw materials. He
may buy them in the form of cotton or soybeans or milk, but he sells
them in the form of rayon, automobile parts, organic acids, new glues
and gums and dextrins, new building materials for our homes, new
paints and varnishes. These new uses require as raw materials the
molecular aggregates which we take off the land in annual crops. It
is true that the chemist can synthesize them in his laboratory, and
some of them he will undoubtedly produce there, but this year and
for many years to come the sunshine and the rain, the fertility of our
soils, and the patient labor of our farmers will grow the crops industry
needs more cheaply than the chemist can make them.

The better living conditions secured through the increased wealth
provided by science, together with the application of science to hygiene
and medicine, have considerably increased the average expectancy of
life. This great achievement in public health is sufficient to justify
the belief that those who call our industrial civilization mean in
quality have narrow views and scant idealism.

Chemistry and medicine are establishing a more cooperative pro-
gram of research, and a good example is some work that has been
under way since 1926 on the treatment of pneumonia.
198 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938

The results of this teamwork between chemists and medical scien-
tists have been of outstanding importance. Woven throughout
the whole progress of the investigation is ample human drama cloaked
from the layman by such chemical names as hydroxyethylhydro-
cupreine, apocupreine, ethylapocupreine, hydroxyethylapocupreine,
and other necessarily abstruse terms. Briefly, the problem was less
to find a compound effective with pneumonia and allied diseases than
to find one that would not harm the eyes. Certain of the cinchona
alkaloids were known to be effective in treating pneumonia, but they
were not to be used without great probability of eye damage. Such
a dilemma is, of course, a challenge to the chemist and to the physician.
The results so far indicate the discovery of cinchona alkaloid deriva-
tives, as new compounds, which give the profession of medicine what
it has long sought—a safe treatment of all types of pneumonia which
will not harm the human eye and therefore can be both effective and
safe.

To date, close to 80 preparations have been tested biologically by
the medical collaborators. Some were found to cause no eye disturb-
ance, but to have little activity with pneumonia. The most promising
drug found, showing greater activity against the disease, lower
toxicity than any of the others, has also been tested in scores of clinical
cases, which have demonstrated a very high tolerance in the human
being to the drug, absence of any untoward visual results and a high
proportion of recoveries from severe pneumococcic infections of all
types.

The investigations must go on, the clinical trials must be conducted
on a wider base, production of the compound on a large scale must be
undertaken. All these projects are now under way, and the chances
of ultimate success are very promising.

When trained minds and proper facilities are applied to specific
problems, practical solutions are expected. If they were not forth-
coming—that would be news.

Fifty years ago, Europe led the world, chemically speaking. Far-
seeing men predicted even then that in another half-turn of the century
the chemical leadership of the world would pass to America. This
change has come about, and the American Chemical Society as an
organization deserves a large share of the credit. The scientists of
each nation have worked with might and main to surpass one another
in chemical discoveries; and the advantage that we have gained has
been largely due to the cooperative spirit generated by our society
activities. A nation must be able to stand chemically alone unless it
would be subservient, so utterly does present-day civilization depend
upon chemistry for a thousand-and-one everyday foods and materials.
And it grows more and more apparent that to help one’s country to be
chemically independent is the profoundest kind of patriotism.
WEIDLEIN 199

A WORLD OF CHANGE

The objective of scientific research today, moreover, is broader
than the solution of technological and chemical problems. It takes
into its view the responsibility for enlivening the imagination of the
masses who will be the chief beneficiaries of these new ways of living.

A true scientist never grows old in his way of thinking. His mind
is constantly working to improve his surroundings and to better
understand the laws of nature. He expects to live in a changing
world.
ase

TRANSMUTATION OF MATTER!

By Lorp RutuHeErrorD, D. Sc., Ll. D., Ph. D., F. R.S.

Toward the close of the nineteenth century, when it seemed cer-
tain that the atoms of the elements were unchangeable by the forces
then at our command, a discovery was made which has revolutionized
our conception of the nature and relations of the elements. I refer
to the discovery in 1896 of the radioactivity of the two heaviest
elements, uranium and thorium. It was soon made clear that this
radioactivity is a sign that the atoms of these elements are undergoing
spontaneous transmutation. At any moment, a small fraction of the
atoms concerned become unstable and break up with explosive
violence, hurling out either a charged atom of helium, known as an
a-particle, or a swift electron of light mass called a 6-particle. As a
result of these explosions, a new radioactive element is formed, and
the process of transmutation once started continues through a
number of stages. Each of the radioactive elements formed in this
way breaks up according to a simple universal law but at very differ-
ent rates. In a surprisingly short time, these successive transforma-
tions were disentangled and more than 30 new types of elements
brought to light, while the simple chemical relations between them
were soon made clear.

We had thus been given a vision of a new and startling subatomic
world where atoms break up spontaneously with an enormous release
of energy quite uninfluenced by the most powerful agencies at our
disposal. Apart from uranium and thorium and the elements derived
from them, only a few other elements showed even a feeble trace of
radioactivity. The great majority of our ordinary elements appeared
to be permanently stable under ordinary conditions on our earth.
Science was then faced with the problem, whether artificial methods
could be found to transmute the atoms of the ordinary elements.
Before this problem could be attacked with any hope of success, it
was necessary to know more of the actual constitution of atoms.
This information was provided by the rise of the nuclear theory of
Betar sruyaneice his death on October 19, 1937, Lord Rutherford completed the presidential address which
he proposed to deliver at the meeting of the Indian Science Congress Association on January 3-9, 1938.
The latter part of the address is here reproduced and represents Lord Rutherford’s last pronouncement on

a subject with which his name will always be associated. Reprinted by permission from Nature, vol. 141,
No. 3558, January 8, 1938.

201
202 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938

atomic structure, which I first suggested in 1911. The essential
controlling feature of all atoms was found to reside in a very minute
central nucleus which carried a positive charge and contained most
of the mass of the atom. A relation of unexpected simplicity was
found to connect the atoms of all the elements. The ordinary prop-
erties of an atom are defined by a whole number, which represents
the number of units of resultant positive charge carried by the
nucleus. This varies from 1 for hydrogen to 92 for the heaviest
element uranium, and, with few exceptions, all the intervening
numbers correspond to known elements.

On this view of atomic structure it was evident that, to bring about
the transmutation of an atom, it was necessary in some way to alter
the charge or mass of the nucleus or both together. Since the nucleus
of an atom must be held together by very powerful forces of some kind,
this could only be effected by bringing a concentrated source of energy
of some kind to bear on the individual nucleus. The most energetic
projectile available at that time was the swift a-particle spontaneously
ejected from radioactive substances. If a large number of a-particles
were fired at random at a sheet of matter,it was to be expected that one
of them must occasionally approach very closely to the nucleus of
any light atom in its path. In such a close encounter, the nucleus
must be violently disturbed, and possibly under favorable conditions
the e-particle might actually enter the nuclear structure.

This mode of attack upon the nucleus at once proved successful. I
found in 1919 that nitrogen could be transformed by bombardment
with fast a-particles. The process of transmutation is now clear.
Occasionally an e-particle actually enters the nitrogen nucleus and
forms with it a new unstable nucleus which instantly breaks up with
the emission of a fast proton (hydrogen nucleus) and the formation of a
stable isotope of oxygen of mass 17. About a dozen of the light ele-
ments were found to be transformed in a similar way. The protons
liberated in the nuclear explosions were at first counted by observing
the flashes of light (scintillations) produced in phosphorescent zinc
sulphide. This method was slow and very trying to the eyes of the
observers. Progress, however, became more rapid and definite when
electrical methods of counting individual fast particles were developed.
These electrical counters, mainly depending on the use of electron
tubes for magnifying small currents, have now reached such a stage of
perfection that we are able to count automatically individual fast
particles like a-particles and protons even though they enter the detect-
ing chamber at a rate as fast as 10,000 per minute. By other special
devices, we are in like manner able to count individual £-particles.
In this connection, I must not omit to mention that wonderful instru-
ment, the Wilson expansion chamber, which makes visible to us the
actual tracks of flying fragments of atoms resulting from an atomic
TRANSMUTATION OF MATTER—-RUTHERFORD 203

explosion. These remarkable devices have played an indispensable
part in the rapid growth of knowledge during the last few years. It
is to be emphasized that progress in scientific discovery is greatly
influenced by the development of new technical methods and of new
devices for measurement. With the growing complexity of science,
the development of special techniques is of ever-increasing importance
for the advance of knowledge.

Up to the year 1932, experiments on transmutation were confined
to the use of a-particles for bombarding purposes. It became clear
that the process of transformation was in most cases complex, since
groups of protons with different but characteristic energies were ob-
served when a single element was bombarded. ‘This led to the con-
ception that discrete energy levels existed within a nucleus, and that
under some conditions part of the excess energy was sometimes released
in the form of a quantum of high-frequency radiation.

The stage was now set for a great advance, and four new discoveries
of outstanding importance were made in rapid succession in the period
1931-33. I refer to the discovery of the positive electron by Anderson
in 1931, of the neutron by Chadwick in 1932, of artificial radioactivity
by M. and Mme. Curie-Joliot in 1933 and of the transmutation of the
elements by purely artificial methods first shown by Cockcroft and
Walton in 1932.

The discovery of the neutron—that uncharged particle of mass
nearly 1—was the result of a close study of the effects produced in the
light element beryllium when bombarded by a-particles. It is note-
worthy that the proton and neutron, which are now believed to be the
essential units with which all atomic nuclei are built up, owe their
recognition to a study of the transmutation of matter by a-particles.

Before the discovery of the neutron, it had been perforce assumed
that nuclei must in some way be built up of massive protons and light
negative electrons. Theories of nuclear structure became much more
amenable to calculation when the nucleus was considered to be an
aggregate of parts like the proton and neutron which have nearly the
same mass. There was no longer any need to assume that either the
positive or the negative electron has an independent existence in the
nuclear structure. We are still uncertain of the exact relation, if any,
between the neutron and the proton. The neutron appears to be
slightly more massive than the proton, but it is generally believed,
although no definite proof is available, that the proton and neutron
within a nucleus are mutually convertible under certain conditions.
For example, the change of a proton into a neutron within the nucleus
should lead to the appearance of a free positive electron, while con-
versely the change of a neutron into a proton gives rise to a free
negative electron. In this way it appears possible to account for the
204. ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938

observed fact that either positive or negative electrons are emitted by
a large group of radioactive elements to which I will now refer.

In the early experiments on transmutation by a-particles, it was
supposed that a stable nucleus was always formed after the emission
of a fast proton. The investigations of M. and Mme. Curie-Joliot
showed that in some cases elements were formed which, while momen-
tarily stable, ultimately broke up slowly, exactly like the natural
radioactive bodies. Most of these radioactive bodies formed by
artificial methods break up with the expulsion of fast negative elec-
trons, but in a few cases positive electrons are emitted. Since the
presence of these radioactive bodies can be easily detected, and their
chemical properties readily determined, this new method of attack on
the problem of transmutation has proved of great value. Nearly a
hundred of these radioactive bodies are now known, produced in a
great variety of ways. Some arise from the bombardment by fast
a-particles, others by bombardment with protons or deuterons. As
Fermi and his colleagues have shown, neutrons, and particularly slow
neutrons, are extraordinarily effective in the formation of such radio-
active bodies. On account of its absence of charge, the neutron
enters freely into the nuclear structure of even the heaviest element,
and in many cases causes its transmutation. For example, a number
of these radioactive bodies are produced when the two heaviest ele-
ments, uranium and thorium, are bombarded by slow neutrons. In
the case of uranium, as Hahn and Meitner have shown, the radioactive
bodies so formed break up in a succession of stages like the natural
radioactive bodies, and give rise to a number of transuranic elements
of higher atomic number than uranium (92). These radioactive ele-
ments have the chemical properties to be expected from the higher
homologues of rhenium, osmium, and iridium of atomic numbers 93,
94, and 95.

These artificial radioactive bodies in general represent unstable
varieties of the isotopes of known elements which have a limited life.
No doubt such transient radioactive elements are still produced by
transmutation in the furnace of our sun, where the thermal motions
of the atoms must be very great. These radioactive elements would
rapidly disappear as soon as the earth cooled down after separation
from the sun. On this view, uranium and thorium are to be regarded
as practically the sole survivors in our earth of a large group of radio-
active elements, owing to the fact that their time of transformation
is long compared with the age of our planet.

It is of interest to note what an important part the a-particle, which
is itself a product of transformation of the natural radioactive bodies,
has played in the growth of our knowledge of artificial transmutation.
It is to be remembered, too, that our main source of neutrons for
experimental purposes is provided by the bombardment of, beryllium
TRANSMUTATION OF MATTER—RUTHERFORD 205

with a-particles. The amount of radium available in our laboratories
is, however, limited, and it was early recognized that if our knowledge
of transmutation was to be extended, it was necessary to have a copious
supply of fast particles of all kinds for bombarding purposes. It is
well known that enormous numbers of protons and deuterons, for
example, can be easily produced by the passage of the electric dis-
charge through hydrogen and deuterium (heavy hydrogen). To be
effective for transmutation purposes, however, these charged particles
must be given a high speed by accelerating them in a strong electric
field. This has involved the use of apparatus on an engineering scale
to provide voltages as high as 1 million volts or more, and the use of
fast pumps to maintain a good vacuum.

A large amount of difficult technical work has been necessary to
produce such high D. C. voltages and to find the best methods of apply-
ing them to the accelerating system. In Cambridge, these high
voltages are produced by multiplying the voltage of a transformer
by a system of condensers and rectifiers; in the United States of
America by the use of a novel type of electrostatic generator, first
developed by Van der Graaf. Professor Lawrence, of the University
of California, has devised an ingenious instrument called a ‘‘cyclotron”’
in which the charged particles are automatically accelerated in
multiple stages. This involves the use of huge electromagnets and
very powerful electric oscillators. By this method he has succeeded
in producing streams of fast particles which have energies as high as
the a-particle ejected from radioactive substances. Undoubtedly this
type of apparatus will prove of great importance in giving us a supply
of much faster particles than we can hope to produce by the more
direct methods.

It was at first thought that very high potentials of the order of
several million volts would be required to obtain particles to study
the transmutation of elements. Here, however, the development of
the theory of wave-mechanics came to the aid of the experimenter,
for Gamow showed that there was a small chance that comparatively
slow bombarding particles might enter a nucleus. This theoretical
conclusion has been completely verified by experiment. In the case
of a light element like lithium, transformation effects can be readily
observed with protons of energy as low as 20,000 volts. Of course,
the amount of transformation increases rapidly with rise of voltage.

The study of the transmutation of elements by using accelerated
protons and deuterons as bombarding particles has given us a wealth
of new information. The capture of the proton or deuteron by a
nucleus leads in many cases to types of transmutation of unusual
interest. For example, the bombardment of the isotope of lithium of
mass 7 by protons leads to the formation of a beryllium nucleus of
_ mass 8 with a great excess of energy. This immediately breaks up
206 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938

into two a-particles shot out in nearly opposite directions. When
boron 11 is bombarded by protons, a carbon nucleus of mass 12 is
formed which breaks up in most cases into three a-particles. The
deuteron is in some respects even more effective than the proton as a
transmuting agent. When deuterons are used to bombard a com-
pound of deuterium, previously unknown isotopes of hydrogen and of
helium of mass 3 are formed, while fast protons and neutrons are
liberated. The bombardment of beryllium by very fast deuterons
gives rise to a plentiful supply of neutrons. Lawrence has shown that
the bombardment of bismuth by very fast deuterons leads to the pro-
duction of a radioactive bismuth isotope which is identical with the
well-known natural radioactive product radium E. Many artificial
radioactive elements can be produced, often in great intensity. For
example, the bombardment of common salt by fast deuterons gives
rise to a radioactive isotope of sodium. This breaks up with a half
period of 15 hours, emitting not only fast 6-particles but also y-rays at
least as penetrating as those from radium.

It may well be that in course of time such artificial radioactive
elements may prove a useful substitute for radium in therapeutic work.
By these methods also, such intense sources of neutrons can be pro-
duced that special precautions have to be taken for the safety of the
operators of the apparatus.

Sufficient, I think, has been said to illustrate the variety and interest
of the transmutations produced by these bombardment methods. It
should, however, be pointed out that transmutation in some cases can
be effected by transferring energy to a nucleus by means of y-rays of
high quantum energy instead of by a material particle. For example,
the deuteron can be broken up into its components, the proton and
neutron, by the action of the y-rays from radium or thorium. As a
result of the bombardment of lithium by protons, y-rays of extraor-
dinarily great quantum energy as high as 17 million volts are strongly
emitted. Bothe has recently shown that these high-energy rays are
able to transmute a number of atoms, neutrons usually being emitted
in the process.

Some simple laws appear to hold in all individual transformations
so far examined. Nuclear charge is always conserved, and where
heavy particles are emitted, so also is energy when account is taken
of the equivalence of mass and energy. Certain difficulties arise with
regard to the conservation of energy in cases where light positive and
negative electrons are emitted during transmutation, and there is still
much discussion on this important question.

The study of the transmutation of matter has been extraordinarily
fruitful in results of fundamental importance. In addition to the
a-particle, it has disclosed to us the existence of those two building
units of nuclei, the proton and neutron. It has greatly widened our
TRANSMUTATION OF MATTER—RUTHERFORD 207

conception of the varieties of atomic nuclei which can exist in Nature.
Not only has it led to the discovery of about 100 new radioactive
elements, but also of several stable isotopes of known elements, like
35H, *He, *Be, which had previously been unsuspected. It has greatly
extended our knowledge of the ways in which nuclei can be built up
and broken down, and has brought to our attention the extraordinary
violence of some of the nuclear explosions which occur. ‘The great
majority of our elements have been transmuted by the bombardment
method, and in the case of the light elements which have been most
carefully studied, a great variety of modes of transmutation has been
established.

Rapid progress has been made, but much still remains to be done
before we can hope to understand the detailed structure and stability
of different forms of atomic nuclei and the origin of the elements. I
cannot but reflect on the amazing contrast between my first experi-
ment on the transmutation of nitrogen in the University of Man-
chester in 1919 and the large-scale experiments on transmutation
which are now in progress in many parts of the world. In the one
case, imagine an observer in a dark room with very simple apparatus
painfully counting with a microscope a few faint scintillations origi-
nating from the bombardment of nitrogen by a source of a-particles.
Contrast this with the large-scale apparatus now in use for experiments
on transmutation in Cambridge. A great hall contains massive and
elaborate machinery, rising tier on tier, to give a steady potential of
about 2 million volts. Nearby is the tall accelerating column with
a power station on top, protected by great corona shields—reminding
one of a photograph in the film of Wells’s, The Shape of Things to
Come. The intense stream of accelerated particles falls on the target
in the room below, with thick walls to protect the workers from stray
radiation. Here is a band of investigators using complicated electrical
devices for counting automatically the multitude of fast particles
arising from the transformation of the target element, or photograph-
ing with an expansion chamber, automatically controlled, the actual
tracks of particles from exploding atoms.

To examine the effect of still faster particles, a cyclotron is installed
in another large room. The large electromagnet and accessories are
surrounded with great water tanks containing boron in solution to
protect the workers from the effect of neutrons released in the appa-
ratus. A power station nearby is needed to provide current to excite
the electromagnet and the powerful electric oscillators.

Such a comparison illustrates the remarkable changes in the scale
of research that have taken place in certain branches of pure science
within the last 20 years. Such a development is inevitable, for, as
science progresses, important problems arise which can only be solved
by the use of large powers and complicated apparatus, requiring the
208 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938

attention of a team of research workers. If rapid progress is to be
made, such team work is likely to be a feature of the more elaborate
researches in the future. Fortunately there is still plenty of scope for
the individual research worker in many experiments of a simpler kind.

The science of physics now covers such a vast field that it is impos-
sible for any laboratory to provide up-to-date facilities for research in
more than a few of its branches. There is a growing tendency in our
research laboratories today to specialize in those particular branches
of physics in which they are most interested or specially equipped.
Such a division of the field of research amongst a number of universi-
ties has certain advantages, provided that this subdivision is not car-
ried too far. In general, the universities should be left free so far as
possible to develop their own lines of research and encouraged to
train young investigators, for it cannot be doubted that vigorous
schools of research in pure science are vital to any nation if it wishes
to develop effectively the application of science, whether to agriculture,
industry or medicine. Since investigations in modern science are
sometimes costly, and often require the use of expensive apparatus
and large-scale collaboration, it is obviously essential that adequate
funds should be available to the universities to cover the cost of such
researches.
SCIENCE AND THE UNOBSERVABLE !

By H. Dinetn, D. Se., A. R. 'C. 8.
Professor of Natural Philosophy, Imperial College of Science and Technology, Uni-
versity of London

A new phenomenon has appeared in modern physics: namely, an
attempt to apply with rigor the principle that only that which is
observable is significant. This is not intended to be a precise state-
ment of the principle. It is at least vague, and perhaps inaccurate,
but on that very account it is the most suitable statement with which
to begin our discussion. For the principle itself has not yet been
clearly isolated from its applications. Unconsciously, progressing
more by instinct than by sight, physicists have allowed it to direct
their thoughts, but they have not succeeded in giving it clear expres-
sion. Consequently it is manifested here in one form and there in
another, appearing to some as an outstanding example of scientific
arrogance and even absurdity, while to others it has an authority which
raises 1t above common sense and reason alike. The resulting con-
troversy, as may be imagined, has been not without dust and heat,
some of which, I fear, must be introduced into the placid atmosphere
of this Institution. Let us agree at the beginning that our own
considerations shall be at least cool. I will try to mitigate the dust-
iness, and we will make an unimpassioned attempt to understand
the meaning of the principle and to reach a viewpoint from which its
validity may be justly appraised.

Let me say at once that the principle is not new. I have no doubt
that the Greeks had some words for it. It is certainly to be found
disturbing the thoughts of Galileo, Newton, Locke, Hume, Kant,
Huxley, Mach, and many others; Huxley, for example, speaks of—
that exact verbal expression of as much as we know of the fact, and no more,
which constitutes a perfect scientific theory.?

But on very few occasions in the past has it been more than a pious
belief, a doctrine which it has been proper—or only slightly improper—
to hold, but which not only has not been allowed to influence the
actual prosecution of scientific or philosophical speculation, but has
actually been violated therein. It is Einstein who is responsible for
the importance which it has today—not because he has stated it

1A lecture delivered before the Royal Institution of Great Britain at the Weekly Evening Meeting,

Friday, November 26, 1937. Reprinted by permission from the pamphlet of the Royal Institution.
2 Hume, English men of letters, p. 55, 1879.
209
210 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938

more clearly than others, but because he has deliberately brought it
into practice and thereby achieved a striking scientific success. Let
us hear him speaking of the crux of his theory—the idea of the simul-
taneity of events occurring at different places.

The concept [of simultaneity] does not exist for the physicist until he has the
possibility of discovering whether or not it is fulfilled in an actual case. We
thus require a definition of simultaneity such that this definition supplies us with
the method by means of which, in the present case, he can decide by experiment
whether or not both the lightning strokes occurred simultaneously. As long as
this requirement is not satisfied, I allow myself to be deceived as a physicist
(and of course the same applies if I am not a physicist), when I imagine that I am
able to attach a meaning to the statement of simultaneity. (I would ask the
reader not to proceed farther until he is fully convinced on this point) .?

I think that if this statement had been made at any time in the
history of modern science, but had not been applied to the foundations
ot physical conceptions, it would have aroused no comment. Einstein
would have been regarded as simply saying that if our definition of
simultaneity is such that it is essentially impossible to determine
whether events are simultaneous or not, then it must be wrong; and
everyone would have agreed and turned to more important matters.
But he went further. He gave a definition which both accorded with
scientific practice and satisfied the requirement he had stated, and
then went on to show that certain modifications of our generally ac-
cepted notions of space and time must necessarily follow. This put
the fat into the fire, and instead of being ignored for saying the obvious,
he was railed at for saying the absurd. Philosophers in particular
were aroused, and when they realized that a mere empiricist was ven-
turing to challenge their fundamental principles in tones which re-
sounded throughout the world, they proceeded to administer the re-
buke which the occasion demanded. Here, for example, is a comment
by M. Jacques Maritain, the well-known French Catholic philosopher,
on the passage I have quoted (in which, it will be remembered, Ein-
stein asks the reader who is not convinced of his principle to read no
farther):

Let us, then, obey our author and read no farther, for this little parenthesis
“the same applies if I am not a physicist,’ is of direct concern to us who have not
the honor to be physicists, and it presumes to introduce us into the most fallacious
metaphysics. * * * It is a fault so obvious to the eyes of a philosopher to.
confuse the meaning of aconcept * * * with the wse which may be made of
the concept in this or that field of study, and more particularly to confuse a thing
* * * with the measure which we take of it by our senses and our instruments,
that we hesitate to impute such a mistake to anyone, whoever he may be. Every-
thing goes to show, however, that Einstein has made this mistake.‘

(We may remark in passing that in speaking of measures, Maritain
has somewhat confused the issue; measurement is not mentioned by

3 The theory of relativity, English translation, p. 22, 1920.
4 Réflexions sur |’Intelligence et sur sa Vie Propre, pp. 205-6, 1926.
SCIENCE AND THE UNOBSERVABLE—DINGLE ey Ma |

Einstein. The point M. Maritain really wishes to make is that the
nature of the thing we observe, whether we measure it or not, is inde-
pendent of our devices for observing it and should, therefore, be inde-
pendently defined.)

It is not surprising that a physicist and a philosopher should take
opposite views of this question, but the matter cannot be disposed of
on simple psychological grounds. Here are the diametrically opposed
views of two men of science:

The general point of view [of relativity, writes Prof. C. G. Darwin, a mathe-
matical physicist who needs no introduction to this audience] of questioning the
reality of anything unobservable is one of the greatest revolutions in scientific
thought that has ever occurred. * * * ‘The great idea which Einstein con-
tributed to scientific philosophy was the principle that if a thing is essentially un-
observable then it is not a real thing and our theories must not include it.5

This remark has caught the eye of Mr. Albert Eagle, now a mathema-
tician but in his better days an experimental physicist, whose name is
known wherever spectroscopy is practiced.

To me, [says Mr. Eagle] this ‘‘great idea” is the most savage example of the
application of what is known as the principle of Occam’s Razor of which I have
heard. * * * KEinstein’s “great idea’’ requires us to surrender our common-
sense for the sake of an arbitrary dictum of his which he and his followers have
raised to a fetish. It is preposterous, and to my way of thinking is so inherently
idiotic that I cannot understand anyone wasting his breath in giving utterance
to such a view. If I had first heard this opinion uttered at a scientific meeting
by some scientific nonentity I should have longed to have got up and said that
in my opinion such a view was simply a bit of perverse imbecility.®

And finally, here is the attitude of another philosopher, Rudolf
Carnap—perhaps the leading exponent of the most active of modern
schools of philosophy, the so-called ‘logical positivism.’’ Carnap,
the philosopher, not only accepts the principle; he uses it to reduce
to nonsense those branches of his own subject known as metaphysics
and ethics.

I will call metaphysical, [he writes] all those propositions which claim to present
knowledge about something which is over and above all experience. * * #*
Metaphysicians * * * are compelled to cut all connection between their
propositions and experience; and precisely by this procedure they deprive them
of any sense.’

In these days, when politeness in controversy, so desirable and
proper if directed to the disputants, is so often improperly extended
to their ideas, so that few dare speak disrespectfully even of the
equator, there is something refreshing in the forthright character
of these remarks. And not only are they refreshing; they are highly
significant also. When men who are neither fools nor liars agree
that a certain idea is either the greatest discovery of a generation or

5 The new conceptions of matter, pp. 23, 81, 1931.

6 The philosophy of religion versus the philosophy of science, pp. 169-70 (1935).
? Philosophy and logical syntax, pp. 15, 17-18, 1935.

114728—39 15

212 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938

the silliest nonsense imaginable, but cannot agree as to which it is,
it is clear that there is more than a difference of opinion; there must
be some defect of understanding also. Intelligent men do not thus
differ about that which they comprehend equally. It, therefore,
becomes a matter of importance to state this principle precisely, so
that we shall at least know what we are doing when we bless or curse
it. And in seeking to assess its value, we must avoid the error of
ascribing greater or less weight to the opinion of a physicist than to
that of another. Einstein is perfectly right in saying that if this
principle holds for him as a physicist, it holds for him also if he is not
a physicist; and M. Maritain offers him a license which he cannot
accept when he allows him to apply the principle in physics but not
outside. If we talk nonsense, and plead in extenuation that we are
only talking as physicists, we fall short of the ideal of rational speech,
distinguished precedent notwithstanding. The question must be
considered on general rational grounds: are we to admit the unob-
servable into our scheme of things or are we not? We must give an
answer which is independent of the particular scheme which we want
to uphold.

Let me for a moment adopt the legal method, and state the case for
each side independently, as an advocate might state it. Take first
the case for the principle. It is necessary, say its supporters, as a
safeguard against irresponsible invention. If we allow that an entity
might exist and be significant to thought, although it is essentially un-
observable, what is there to prevent us from postulating any number
of such entities and invoking them to remove any difficulty that might
arise? Suppose, for instance, I assert that there is a binkum sitting
on the table in front of me, and that this tremendous fact, rightly
understood, is the final, completely satisfying solution of the problem
of evil. If you reject the principle in question, you have no grounds
for denying the statement. You may say that you cannot detect my
binkum, but I reply that of course you cannot, because he is unobsery-
able. If you want to know how his existence solves the problem of
evil, I say that it is its nature to do so, and the definition of him, ac-
cording to your own contention, is quite independent of any means
you adopt to investigate him. If you ask, ‘‘What is a binkum, any-
way?’’, I reply that that is immediately evident; I cannot put it into
words, but everyone knows what a binkum is. If you retort that you
do not know, I shrug my shoulders and say that you must be speaking
as a physicist.

Stupid as this example sounds, it contains a precise parallel to the
case of simultaneity. M. Maritain and those who agree with him
claim that the simultaneity of spatially separated events is something
independent of our means of observing it. When asked what it is,
they claim that its nature is immediately evident and that everyone
SCIENCE AND THE UNOBSERVABLE—DINGLE 213

knows it. But Einstein says he does not know it, and Einstein is an
honorable man. And the only reply is that Einstein and his followers
must be speaking as physicists.

We can now press home the point. We agree, let me assume, that
science and philosophy are better without the binkum; how, then, can
we exclude him? Only, says Counsel for the defence of the principle,
by refusing to grant existence to anything that is essentially unobserv-
able. Our only clue to reality is observation in one form or another.
And if we admit that, we must go further. Not only must we deny
existence to the unobservable: by the same token we are forced also to
deny any unobservable property to an existent thing, otherwise we
again open the door to the same abuses. And that means that every-
thing whose existence we acknowledge must be definable ultimately in
terms of observation—that for everything that we assert about it we
must have, in the last resort, some observable evidence. The charac-
ter of the thing may, of course, be very different from the character of
the observation; a star, for instance, may be a dazzlingly bright globe
of gas millions of miles in diameter, whereas we observe only a faint
pinpoint of light. But there must be a logical passage from every de-
tail we assert about the star to the observation of the pinpoint or other
observations of cognate character. If there is the slightest relaxation
of this requirement, in comes the binkum with passport signed and
sealed.

The case seems established, but we must hear Counsel for the other
side. His argument is a reductio ad absurdum. Certainly we do not
want the binkum, he says, but your device for keeping him out is both
presumptuous and absurd; you are throwing out the baby with the
bath-water. Consider for a moment what your principle implies.
It asserts that there is nothing in the universe except what you can
observe—nothing in the physical world beyond the reach of your
senses. Suppose we were blind, like the men in Mr. Wells’s country;
then, according to your principle, we ought to act as they did, and
deny existence to the merely visible. How do you know that the
universe does not contain things apprehensible only by senses which
you do not possess, which perhaps you have lost in the course of evolu-
tion or have not yet acquired? Moreover, what about the past?
You cannot observe that, for it has gone; therefore, you say, it has no
meaning, it must not come into our description of reality. No flower
has been born to blush unseen; no feet trod the earth before the begin-
ning of living memory. Such nonsense necessarily follows if your
principle is granted. Exclude your binkum by all means—we hold no
brief for him; but find some sensible way of doing it, without assuming
potential omniscience.

The problem, I think, is now set clearly before us. If we admit the
unobservable, there is no check on empty speculation; if we reject the
214 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938

unobservable, we confine the universe within the bounds of human
potentialities and make nonsense of history. What are we to do?

It is evident that we must begin by examining the word ‘“‘unobserv-
able.’”? Both sides wish to exclude the binkum; both wish to allow the
universe a richer content than we can at present perceive. The ‘‘un-
observable” that is to be proscribed must therefore include the obvi-
ously idle fancies but exclude the legitimately transcendental, and we
must define it so that it does so inevitably, without special pleading.
I need scarcely add that we must distinguish between “‘unobservable”’
and “‘unobserved’’—between what we cannot possibly observe and
what we have not in fact observed. This needs no elaboration; we
agree that an entity is not to be rejected merely because we have not
observed it. But what do we mean by ‘‘possibly”’ observable?

There are reasons of various kinds why we may be prevented from
observing a thing, but I think they can all be summarized under four
headings. First of all, there is what I will call the practically un-
observable—i. e., that which is unobservable because of the practical
difficulties of observing it. The far side of the moon affords an ex-
ample. That region is unobservable because we have not solved the
problem of interplanetary travel, or succeeded in observing the moon
reflected in Mars, or learnt so much about the properties of matter
that we are able to deduce from observations of the near side of the
moon what the configuration of the far side must be, or performed
some other feat of practical ingenuity. It is conceivable that in time
this disability will be removed, so that practical unobservability may
be merely a temporary characteristic.

Secondly, there is the humanly unobservable; by which i mean the
unobservable which is so because we do not possess the necessary
faculties for observing it. I cannot, of course, by the nature of the
case, give examples of this, but I can give analogies. A great deal of
the universe would be humanly unobservable if we had no sense of
sight; and to the musically insensitive the significance of a great
composer may be said to be humanly unobservable. If, then, there
is in the universe some existence which no creature has the faculty of
apprehending, that existence is humanly unobservable.

Thirdly, there is what I will call the physically unobservable. A
thing may be said to be physically unobservable when we have the
faculty for observing it if nature will cooperate, but nature gives that
faculty no opportunity for exercise. Thus, if somewhere in space
there occurred an event from which no signal—light ray or sound
wave or anything else—proceeded to other places, and if there were
repulsive forces which prevented us from ever reaching the place of
occurrence, that event would be physically unobservable. We have
eyes to see it, and hands to touch the bodies concerned in it, but we
cannot use them for that purpose. An example important in physical
SCIENCE AND THE UNOBSERVABLE—DINGLE 215

history is the possibility of observing absolute motion. We have, in
the Michelson-Morley experiment and similar devices, instruments
which are able to detect absolute motion if nature will provide them
with the necessary messengers, but this she fails to do. No matter
how we may be changing our motion with respect to other bodies, our
absolute motion always appears to be nonexistent. (I am assuming,
without prejudice, for the sake of illustration, that Prof. Dayton
Miller’s experiments do not contradict this statement.)

Lastly, there is the logically unobservable; namely, those things
which we cannot claim to have observed without breaking the laws
of reason. I doubt if this class is actual, since logic and observation
are essentially independent, but, as we shall see, it must be included
because a great deal has been written about it. An example might
be the observation of an object both larger and smaller than a
given object; but I give this example with some hesitation because
geometers have an uncanny knack of inventing spaces in which
such relations might not be incompatible. Be that as it may, how-
ever, if we grant a certain minimum of common agreement—such as
the acceptance of Euclidean geometry in the present instance—
logical unobservability becomes an intelligible notion, and we will
accept it as a candidate for inclusion in our principle.

Now this classification may be simplified; for, whatever may be
the ultimate truth of the matter, it is not necessary for our purpose
to put the humanly and the physically unobservable in separate
classes. I will, therefore, group them together and call them jointly
the physically unobservable. The justification for this is that we
cannot tell, in any given case, with which class we are dealing. If,
for example, a certain substance appears tasteless to everyone (i. e.,
its taste is unobservable), it is impossible to say whether that is
because it has a taste which our senses are not keen enough to detect,
or because it has no taste to be detected. There may be a distinction
between the two cases, but if so it is beyond our apprehension. But
now our principle is essentially one which, if valid, must be used;
it is not a creed which we are merely called upon to state and may
then ignore. The humanly and the physically unobservable, then,
become one class so far as our problem is concerned, for if in practice
we reject one, we automatically reject the other also.

We have, then, three classes of unobservables, and I think the
distinction between them may be expressed most simply in the fol-
lowing way. Let us suppose that we have discovered all the means
of observation that exist in the universe, and know all their prop-
erties completely. We might then be able to imagine other means
of observation which do not exist. Anything which would be ob-
servable by such imaginary means, but not by the existing means,
would be physically unobservable. Anything which would be
216 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938

unobservable by any means, existing or imaginable, would be logi-
cally unobservable. Anything which would be observable by the
existing means if we were also omnipotent, but which actually is
unobservable because we cannot make full use of the means of
observation which exist, would be practically unobservable.

We can now proceed a stage further. We have just seen that, for
our purpose, the humanly and the physically unobservable become
one class because we cannot at present distinguish between them.
Let us look, then, at our latest classification, to make sure that the
three types of unobservability we have now reached are immediately
distinguishable. It is fairly evident, I think, that they are, if we grant
the initial supposition that we have discovered all existing means of
observation. For brevity, I will call that the assumption of omnis-
cience, and you will understand that by that word I do not mean
knowledge of everything that exists or that can be observed, but
complete knowledge of the existence and properties of every means
by which observation is possible. For example, omniscience implies
complete knowledge of all the properties of light, but not necessarily
of all objects which are visible. Now, clearly, this assumption of
omniscience is open to challenge, and it is, therefore, necessary to
see how our classification looks if it is removed. Can we then still
recognize the three classes as distinct?

There is no difficulty, I think, with the logically unobservable.
Since this class consists of things which are not even imaginably
observable, it makes no difference how much we know of possible
observability. ‘There can be no possible means of observation that
is not imaginable. There may be unimagined means, of course. We
may make discoveries that take us by surprise, but those discoveries
must have been imaginable, or we could not have apprehended them
at all. Whatever we know of observability, then, does not affect our
potentialities of observation, so that the logically unobservable is a
definitely distinguishable class, independently of our assumption of
omniscience.

The case is different, however, with the practically and the physi-
cally unobservable, for these classes cannot be distinguished if we do
not regard ourselves as omniscient. We said that the far side of the
moon was practically unobservable, but if we are not omniscient,
how do we know that when we have overcome what seem to be the
present difficulties; when we have made vessels with adequate air and
food supply, and vehicles that we can drive accurately and swiftly
enough to take us unharmed to the moon during a week-end—how
do we know that nature will not then face us with some unexpected
difficulty like that which she kept in store for our efforts to determine
our motion through the ether? If she does, and persists in doing the
same kind of thing, we shall have to call the far side of the moon
SCIENCE AND THE UNOBSERVABLE—DINGLE B17

physically and not only practically unobservable, And, on the other
hand, when we say that absolute motion is physically unobservable,
we are again assuming omniscience. We cannot observe such motion
by optical, acoustical, electromagnetic or any other means within our
present knowledge, but, without the assumption, who can say that
there is not some undiscovered physical medium through which it
may be detected? If there is, absolute motion is merely practically,
and not physically, unobservable. It is clear, I think, that unless we
are omniscient the two classes are indistinguishable.

Our analysis of unobservability, then, finally brings us to this. If
we assume that we are omniscient we can distinguish three classes—the
practically, the physically, and the logically unobservable. If we do
not assume that we are omniscient we can distinguish only two
classes—the actually and the logically unobservable, let us call them.
The importance of this conclusion for our purpose is this. We are
going to look at the actual practice of physics, to see what kinds of
unobservable are excluded and what kinds are not. If we find that a
distinction is made between the practically and the physically unob-
servable, then we know that physics is assuming omniscience; but if
no distinction is made, then there is no such assumption.

Let me state the result at once, afterward giving examples to
justify the statement before proceeding to consider the validity of the
principle we are considering in its definite form. The practice of
physics is to recognize three classes—the practically, the physically,
and the logically unobservable. Of these it excludes the physically
and the logically unobservable from its considerations, and aims at
describing the universe in terms of the observable and the merely
practically unobservable only. It thus assumes omniscience, in the
sense in which I have defined the word.

It will not take us long to see that physics includes the practically
and excludes the logically unobservable. No physicist denies that the
moon has a far side in the same sense as it has a near side. We
assume without question that the earth has an interior, that there are
stars outside the range of our telescopes, and regions beyond the
obscuring clouds of the Milky Way. All these things could be
observed if known means of observation have precisely the properties
we believe them to have and we had the skill to make full use of them.
Hence the practically unobservable is admitted to physical theory.

We may deal equally summarily with the logically unobservable.
Nasty things have been said about the reasoning of some modern
physicists when they step outside the bounds of their equations, but
I do not think the bare, unadorned physical theories themselves have
been called illogical, either with pride or with shame. If, then, the
structure of physical theory allows ontological significance to any-
thing which is logically unobservable, it does so through an oversight,
218 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938

and theory will undoubtedly be reformed as soon as the oversight is
discovered. We may say, therefore, that the practice of physics is
to reject the logically unobservable.

But now, the unobservables whose rejection has caused all the con-
troversy belong to neither of these classes. Let us fix our attention
on the example of absolute simultaneity, with which the discussion
began. This, as we know, is rejected, and that cannot be because
it is practically unobservable, for physics reeks of the practically
unobservable. Nor is absolute simultaneity logically unobservable.
We can conceive that the universe might be such that two events at
different places might occur at the same time in an absolute sense, and
that this fact might be observable. I should mention, however, that
this has been denied, so I will presently show in more detail why abso-
lute simultaneity cannot be regarded as logically unobservable, but for
the moment I will take it to be established in order not to interrupt
the main course of the argument. We cannot, then, escape from the
conclusion that absolute simultaneity belongs to a third class of
unobservables, which we shall see is what I have called the class of
physically unobservables; and the recognition of this class commits
physics to the assumption of omniscience.

To see that absolute simultaneity is physically unobservable, let
us look at the obstacle that prevents us from observing it. Why can
we not say, in an absolute sense, that two events occurring at dif-
ferent places are simultaneous? It comes down to the fact that we
can know of the events only through some agency which travels from
them to us and takes time to do so. Consider two events—say, the
impact of a meteorite on a lunar crater and the outbreak of a new star
in the Milky Way. We know of these events when we see them (or
their effects) but we do not see them at the moments at which they
occur because the light which makes them visible takes time to travel;
and although, perhaps, we observe them on the same evening, one may
have occurred 100 years after the other. We can, of course, allow for
this by calculating how long the light has taken to travel, but when we
do so, according to standard methods and principles, we find that the
results depend on the way in which we happen to be moving with
respect to the bodies on which the events occurred. Furthermore,
we cannot distinguish in an absolute sense between one state of motion
and another; so far as we can determine, all states are equally valid
or equally invalid. Hence, we do not know what allowance to make
for the time of travel of the light, and, therefore, cannot determine
absolutely whether the events were simultaneous or not. The word
“absolutely” is important. We can determine quite definitely if the
events are simultaneous if we assume that we are at rest or that we
are moving in any definitely specified way; but what we cannot do is
to justify our assumption if it is challenged.
SCIENCE AND THE UNOBSERVABLE—DINGLE 219

The unobservability of absolute simultaneity, then, depends on the
fact that we cannot determine unambiguously how long light takes to
inform us of an event; or, more generally, how long after an event it is
possible for us to know of it. This ignorance, of course, would not be
necessary if we could know of an event immediately it occurred—if,
this is to say, we could observe it by some messenger which traveled
at an infinite speed. This is not pure fancy. Before the time of
Romer, in the seventeenth century, it was believed that light might
travel at an infinite speed, and before the theory of relativity arose,
it was believed that gravitational action was transmitted instantane-
ously. It is not uncommon, too, to imagine that there might be
instantaneous telepathic communication. We can at least, then,
conceive that an instantaneous messenger might exist, and therefore
absolute simultaneity is not logically unobservable. It is unobservable
simply and solely because, so far as our present survey of the universe
has gone, there is no evidence that it is possible to learn of a distant
event at the moment at which it occurs. In other words, absolute
simultaneity is physically unobservable.

It is important to emphasize this because, as I remarked just now,
it has been claimed that absolute simultaneity is rejected because it
is logically unobservable, and this claim has been made the basis of
the philosophy of the logical positivists. Let us hear the late Prof.
Moritz Schlick, one of the foremost and most able of the founders of
this school of thought. He maintains that there are only two signif-
icant classes of unobservables, corresponding to what I have called
the “actually” and the “logically”? unobservable.

The distinction between impossibility of fact and impossibility of principle, is
absolute, without the slightest ambiguity; it is not of such and such a degree;
it is essential.®

He then cites Einstein’s rejection of absolute simultaneity as an
example of the rejection of the logically unobservable, the “impossi-
bility of principle.” He makes it quite clear that he does not dis-
tinguish between the physically and the practically unobservable;
they are all included in the ‘‘impossibility of fact.”

The statement, ‘‘There are mountains 3,000 meters high on the far side of the
moon,”’ is perfectly sensible, although our present technical skill is insufficient
to assure us of its truth or falsity. It would still be sensible if it were unquestion-
ably established scientifically that man would never reach the far side of the moon
by any means. The verification remains conceivable; we are able to express what
it would be necessary to do to decide the question, what it would be necessary to
experience; verification is logically possible, and that is all that matters.

I hope I have made it clear that if the conceivability of verification
is all that matters, absolute simultaneity is verifiable, and, therefore,
not logically unobservable. We can conceive of the possibility of

§ Erkenntnis. French translation in Actualités Scientifiques et Industrielles, No. 152, p. 25 (1934).
220 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938

learning of an event at the moment of its occurrence. If, then, two
separated events occur at the same instant, it is conceivable that we
should observe them at the same instant. Now no one has denied
that simultaneity of observation is significant; it is only simultaneity
of occurrence of the events that is in question. Hence, since simul-
taneity of occurrence is conceivably deducible from simultaneity of
observation, it also would be significant if the logically unobservable
alone were excluded.

We can now, at last, give a rigorous form to the principle which is
the subject of our inquiry. It is this: that only that which would be
observable if we were able to use known means of observation to the
known limits of their possibilities, is significant. Our description of
the universe must describe nothing else, must imply the existence of
nothing else, must imply the possible existence of nothing else. If we
do not accept this principle, we must reject relativity and a consider-
able part of the quantum theory as worthless illusion.

The next step, clearly, is to examine the credentials of this principle
on general rational grounds, but before doing so I want to give an-
other example of its application, in order to emphasize the fact that
it is not an unimportant appendage of physical theory, but the very
mainspring of the most prominent modern developments. Heisen-
berg’s uncertainty principle is perhaps the best-known example, but
I will not deal with that because it is too closely bound up with other
factors which there is no time to consider. I choose instead an idea
which stresses the point still more forcibly because it is not generally
regarded as exemplifying the principle in question, but is attacked or
defended on quite other grounds. The principle has taken root so
deep in the minds of physicists that they employ it unconsciously,
and justify their action by arguments which appear to others either
incomprehensible or absurd. I am speaking of the idea that the
physical universe is finite but boundless. This idea can be made
intelligible in 5 minutes when presented as an example of the prin-
ciple of rejection of the physically unobservable, and I believe that
those who accept it are convinced of its rationality because they have
already accepted that principle. They are not aware of this source
of their conviction, however, and therefore have to justify their belief
by saying that space is “‘curved,” that it ‘‘bends back on itself”’—an
‘Gdea’’ which I do not think it is humanly possible to grasp except as
a metaphor of the kind one meets with in the ‘‘metaphysical” poetry
of the seventeenth century. Whether or not that psychological diag-
nosis is accurate, however, is unimportant; the main point is to see
that, in terms of our principle, the idea that space is finite and bound-
less is intelligible without calling on such unimaginable notions as
curvature.
SCIENCE AND THE UNOBSERVABLE—DINGLE pie |

The idea is that if we were free to move about in space eternally,
wherever nature led, we would always find ourselves apparently in the
midst of a collection of stars or nebulae, though we could not forever
be meeting new objects, but would have to endure the tedium of see-
ing the old familiar faces endlessly, without relief. Like our former
example, this idea, in its modern form, originated with Einstein; let
us see how it has impressed his contemporaries. Sir Arthur Edding-
ton, who thinks very highly of it, writes thus:

Einstein made a slight amendment to his law to meet certain difficulties that
he encountered in his theory. There was just one place where the theory did not
seem to work properly, and that was—infinity. I think Hinstein showed his
greatness in the simple and drastic way in which he disposed of difficulties at
infinity. He abolished infinity. He slightly altered his equations so as to make
space at great distances bend round until it closed up.®

On the other hand, here is the stimulating Mr. Eagle again.

?

I fancy Einstein is honestly a bit tired and weary of ‘‘curved space,” and is
probably a bit sorry he ever suggested such a thing. But he did not know with
what zeal other people would take it up and make a world-wide fuss about it.
In pre-Einsteinian days if people had been told that an author’s theme in his
book had been that external reality only possessed three spatial dimensions, and
that therefore to talk of ‘‘curved three dimensional space’ was pure nonsense,
they would have replied that they thought only lunatics thought otherwise.
Now this conception is widely regarded in many circles as a ‘probably may be
true’ one. This, to me, seems the measure to which both the scientific world and
the general public have been bluffed by the theory. Future scientific historians
will probably regard the theory as a befitting product of a mad age in the world’s
history .!°

Prof. E. A. Milne is scarcely less contemptuous of this manifestation
of Einstein’s greatness.

It is not necessary to employ the vague, ill-understood, probably meaningless
concept of closed, finite expanding space."

Well, the symptoms are familiar. Again we have the alternative
estimates of supreme greatness and supreme folly, and we might
suspect that the same misunderstanding is at the bottom of the
trouble—as, in fact, it is. Let us begin with a finite collection of
stars (or nebulae) in a space which we suppose extends to infinity in
all directions (fig. 1); we are somewhere in the midst of the collection—
say at A. Now suppose we try to get outside into the empty spaces.
We cannot, because the gravitation of the system keeps all material
bodies inside; the faster we move, the greater is the attraction, and
we find ourselves following some such path as that shown in the
diagram. It is the same with light; that also is drawn back, and
cannot illuminate whatever external objects there may be. In fact

®§ The expanding universe, p. 21, 1933.

10 The philosophy of religion versus the philosophy of science, pp. 219-20,
11 Zeits. f. Astrophysik, vol. 6, p. 83, 1933,
232 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938

no physical existence that we know of can escape. All that is per-
fectly conceivable; and I am not, of course, concerned with whether
it is true or not, any more than I was concerned earlier with the truth
of the statement that the velocity of light is finite; that is a matter
for experiment, and my purpose is served if I can show that the
idea of finite boundlessness could be true without violation of ordinary

notions.

= e
© e e e
e e
e
° e
e
e . e
e e e °
° e e
e
e e e e e A
° e e O
e
e
2 e ° e °
e e >
> e
e ° e
° °
° e ® °
= e
° 6
e
e e @ ~ :
e
“4 °
e e
e e e
°
e e 2
® ©
e
® e e
° < e
° e
® e
e
°
e
°
2 °

FIGURE 1.—Modei of finite universe.
From “‘Through Science to Philosophy.” By H. Dingle.

[Courtesy of the Clarendon Press, Oxford]

We picture, then, a finite universe from which we cannot escape.
The next point is that it is impossible for us to know whether we are
at its center or its boundary; in either case we appear to be surrounded
by stars on all sides. Obviously an observer at the center (or at A)
sees stars all round, but so does an observer at B, for the light of the
stars inside is bent, so that he sees then whichever way he looks.
The light of a star at S, for example, is bent so that the star appears
to be at S'.. This is a very ordinary phenomenon, exemplified every
time we look at a mirror; an object appears in the direction of the
SCIENCE AND THE UNOBSERVABLE—DINGLE pales

light that enters our eye, and not necessarily where it actually is.
We are, therefore, not only confined within the universe, but neces-
sarily without the possibility of the experience of being at the bound-
ary; however we move, and wherever we go, we must always see the
same kind of thing—stars more or less uniformly distributed all round.

All that is of the nature of simple, traditional physics; now comes
the crucial point. Since the region outside the system is physically
inaccessible and unobservable, and the experience of being at its
frontier is physically unattainable so that it is never possible for us
to know whether we are there or not, we leave these things outside
our description of the universe. We give the name “space” to the
volume which contains what we can observe, and describe it simply
according to our experience as both finite and boundless. We can
still, of course, conceive that there is an infinite region outside (wher-
ever ‘‘outside” may be), but that is merely another way of saying
that the region is not logically unobservable. The rejection of in-
finite space is, in fact, precisely similar to the rejection of absolute
simultaneity: it represents an economy of ideas—we are to introduce
no conceptions which are not necessary for the description of the
physically observable.

It may be worth while to point out that this account of finite bound-
lessness differs from the statement that space is curved in the fact
that it says nothing about any intrinsic property of space. There is
no need to try to think of emptiness with a curvature; we have simply
to think of possible experience, and keep witbin its bounds. Of
course, for mathematical purposes the conception of curvature is
useful because it allows us to employ the technique of Riemannian
geometry to solve particular problems, and for the mathematician it
may have some esthetic value, as the poetry of Mr. T. S. Eliot is
said to have for those ‘‘in the know.”’ But for the purpose of under-
standing it is worse than superfluous; it is definitely misleading.

What, now, of the validity of this principle, which has taken
charge of physics and threatens to direct all future philosophical
thought? Let me repeat the principle; it says that nothing which is
logically or physically unobservable is significant. This statement
must be appraised on prescientific, general rational grounds, and we
can best approach the task by returning to the rival arguments set
out earlier and considering them in the light of our rigorous statement.

The essence of the argument for the principle is that it is needed
to prevent arbitrary invention of existences or arbitrary dogmas about
them; and it meets this requirement by saying, in effect, that every-
thing that exists is observable by known means. The argument
against the principle is that we have no right to assume omniscience;
that although it may be granted that the logically unobservable can-
not exist, it is presumptuous to say the same of the physically unob-
224 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938

servable. And, as an example of the absurdity to which the principle
leads us, it was pointed out that it would require us to deny the
reality of all that is past.

Now, before coming to the main issue, it may be well to point out
that this example does not hold good. The past is not physically
unobservable, but only practically so. Every event in the past inter-
acted with the rest of the universe, and the effects of the interaction
persist in one form or another; it could, therefore, in principle be
deduced from an analysis of those effects, just as the course of certain
past events can be observed from a cinematograph film. True,
photography is a specially arranged type of interaction, the results
of which can be analyzed into a reproduction of the original events
with relative ease, but that is merely a practical difference. Since
radiation is going out from every event at every instant, and radia-
tion, as energy, is indestructible, there always exists the physical pos-
sibility of tracing it back from whatever form it may have assumed
to its original character, and so recovering the past. Before conclud-
ing that the principle is inherently absurd, therefore, it is necessary
to examine it with some care, for it leaves the possibility of a richer
universe than might at first be suspected.

But making all due allowance for that, the criticism remains that
the principle does categorically deny existence to whatever cannot
be physically observed, and that this implies an unwarrantable as-
sumption of omniscience. We are, therefore, in this dilemma. If
we deny the principle, we have no check on idle invention; it may
be that all that we know, and have taken such pains to find out, is
trivial, while the great, important facts of the universe are not even
suspected and are unattainable—at least with our present human
faculties and knowledge, and perhaps altogether. On the other hand,
if we accept the principle, we close the door to all experience outside
that which our present knowledge allows. Our mental, like our
physical, universe becomes finite, and all that the future provides
scope for is more ingenious manipulation of things we already know.
And let me repeat that this dilemma is not a domestic affair for
physicists. In physics it concerns at present only existences observ-
able by sense perception, but, clearly, it is equally relevant, in the
appropriate forms, to all spheres of thought in which we regard our-
selves as apprehending some independent existence by means of
human faculties.

This last sentence, I think, gives the clue to the solution of the
problem: “All spheres of thought in which we regard ourselves as
apprehending some independent existence by means of human facul-
ties.” That is the attitude which I have assumed throughout this
discussion—the attitude of naive realism in which we picture an
objective universe existing independently of our thought of it and our
examination of it. It is the attitude which we always assume in
SCIENCE AND THE UNOBSERVABLE—DINGLE 225

everyday intercourse and in most scientific discussions also. We
regard scientific research as an exploration of this independent uni-
verse, an attempt to discover what it contains and to understand the
preestablished relation of one part with another. It is this concep-
tion of science or philosophy that makes possible the dilemma by
which we are faced. If the universe exists independently of our
experience of it, then clearly it is presumption on our part to deny
that it can contain anything inaccessible to experience. And, on the
other hand, if we abstain from this presumption we make all inquiry
a mockery, for we have no guarantee that anything that we may dis-
cover is more than a triviality, an insignificant part of a universe
whose essential elements are eternally unknowable. We may, it is
true, make a verbal escape from the dilemma by saying that, although
the universe may be mainly unknowable, we proceed by an act of
faith that we are given faculties capable of apprehending it completely ;
but such an act of faith is both logically and practically indistinguish-
able from the assumption of omniscience—it is simply arrogance
wearing the cloak of humility.

But suppose we take the idealistic view, regarding our experience,
our observations, as the primary data, and the universe as a mental
construct formed to give rational coherence to those observations.
The whole matter then appears in a different light, in which the
dilemma is no longer seen. The statement that nothing which is
logically or physically unobservable is significant is simply a state-
ment of our aim as scientists or philosophers; it means that we confine
ourselves to our purpose of deducing a universe from our observa-
tions and do not allow our fancies to intervene. There is no assump-
tion of omniscience because there is no independent universe to know,
and the arrogance disappears because we make no claim to know all
the possibilities of observation. We set no limit to the possibilities
of experience; we simply refuse to assert anything for which we have
no (direct or indirect) justification in experience, and as observation
grows the universe grows also. - The objection to the principle, there-
fore, vanishes completely, from the idealistic point of view.

On the other hand, the objection to denying the principle by no
means vanishes. If we do not exclude the physically unobservable
from our description of the universe, we still have no grounds for not
admitting the binkum and so reducing philosophy toa farce. When
M. Maritain claims that a thing is independent of our observation
of it, he immediately makes it impossible for us to know that we are
saying anything of the least importance about it, no matter whether
we adopt the realistic or the idealistic viewpoint. If we are realists,
the thing may be essentially beyond apprehension; and, if we are
idealists, we may form it equally legitimately from observation or
from fancy.

The position, then, is this. If we take the realistic view, we are left
226 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938

with an unresolved dilemma, but if we take the idealistic view, the
principle becomes simply a statement of the object at which science
has aimed throughout its history. It is not my purpose to comment
on the age-old problem of idealism versus realism; I am concerned only
with the attitude implied in modern scientific developments. And the
point I want to emphasize as clearly and unmistakably as possible is
that anyone who regards the recent trend of physics in general, and the
theory of relativity in particular, as legitimate science or philosophy or
intellectual activity bearing whatever name may be thought honor-
able, must either be an idealist or presume that he is omniscient. Ido
not wish in this place to plead the cause of either of the alternatives
open to the humble. I am not anxious to cry ‘‘Vote for realism, and
down with relativity!’ or “Support idealism and relativity, and throw
realism to the dogs!’ That is a matter for personal predilection, but it
is a matter for pure reason to show that those are the only alternatives
open to anyone who is not prepared to assume that he is omniscient.

The striking divergence of opinion with which we opened can now,
I think, be understood. Those who, like M. Maritain and Mr. Eagle,
see the principle in question as an example of presumption arising from
ignorance, are realists—by which I mean that they instinctively think
as realists, whether or not they would accept the title. On the other
hand, those physicists and philosophers who accept the principle are,
by the same criterion, idealists, though most of them speak our ordi-
nary, everyday language which has accommodated itself to the realis-
tic outlook. In terms of that language their utterances necessarily
appear arrogant; what they apprehend instinctively as the wisdom of
a, self-imposed discipline is clothed in sentences which suggest to the
realist the idea of arbitrary dogma. The divergence, arising as a
difference of philosophical attitude, is accentuated by the necessity of
expressing idealistic principles in realistic terms.

Let me, in conclusion, recapitulate the argument. The practice of
modern physics is found on examination to imply that nothing must be
included in our description of the universe that would not be observable
if we had full control of all known means of observation. If we adopt
the realistic view that the universe exists independently of our obser-
vation of it, this implies that the means of observation which we al-
ready know are sufficient to reveal everything that exists. We must
in that case either make this assumption, for which we have no war-
rant, or else reject the recent developments of physics. If we choose
the second alternative, we are left without any assurance that we can
know anything of importance about what exists outside us. On the
other hand, if we adopt the idealistic view that the universe is con-
structed mentally by logical inference from experience, we see the im-
plication of modern physics as simply the traditional thesis of science
that the data we choose shall be pure experience, unalloyed with fancy
or arbitrary dogma.
SOME ASPECTS OF NUCLEAR PHYSICS OF POSSIBLE
INTEREST IN BIOLOGICAL WORK !

By L. A. DuBripeEe
University of Rochester, Rochester, New York

[With two plates]

In selecting a title for this paper I have endeavored to choose one
which would create no illusions as to its purpose or content. It is
my purpose only to review (in a very elementary way) some of the
aspects of nuclear physics which give promise of providing useful tools
in biological research. I shall attempt to indicate a few of the types
of problems to which these tools may be applied. I am not reporting
any research which has been carried on in this field. I cannot claim
originality for any of the suggestions I am going to make concerning
biological problems, since they are all either more or less obvious or
else have been proposed by various workers interested in this field.?
Note that these are only suggestions as to possible problems to
which these new tools may be applied, not predictions of any definite
results which may be obtained. It is as difficult to make predictions
in this field now as it would have been 35 years ago to predict the
biological applications of X-rays and radioactivity.

Nevertheless, despite these cautious remarks, it is my own convic-
tion, inspired by the conviction of many others better able to judge,
that the discoveries of the last 5 years in nuclear physics are almost
certain to be of far reaching importance in biology. They will greatly
facilitate experimental work now going on in certain fields, and they
will doubtless uncover new problems not now suspected or not open
to attack by present experimental methods. Many feel that a new
era in biological technique is now at hand. If this be true no further
apologies need be offered for any attempt to acquaint biologists
with the nature of the new tools for research which they are likely
soon to be using.

We will do well to begin the discussion by listing some of the most
important advances in nuclear physics in recent years.

1 Presented at the Symposium on Biophysics, Philadelphia, Pa., November 4, 5, and 6, 1937. Reprinted
by permission from the Journal of Applied Physics, vol. 9, No. 3, March 1938.

11 am particularly indebted to Prof. E. O. Lawrence, with whom these problems have been discussed in
some detail.

227
114728—39——_16
228 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938

1. The discovery, measurement, and separation of isotopes of the chemical
elements (Aston, Bainbridge, Urey, et al.).

2. The development of machines for accelerating charged particles to very
high energies (1 to 8 million electron volts).

(a) Transformer-condenser methods (Cockcroft and Walton, Lauritsen, et al.).

(b) Electrostatic generator (Van de Graaff, Tuve).

(c) The cyclotron (Lawrence, Livingston, and Cooksey).

(d) Linear accelerators, resonance transformers, etc.

3. The transmutation of elements:

(a) By natural alpha-particles (Rutherford, 1919).

(b) By artificially accelerated protons (Cockcroft and Walton, 1932).

(c) By deuterons (Lawrence, 1933).

(d) By neutrons (Feather, 1932).

4. Discovery of the positron (Anderson, 1932).

5. Discovery of the neutron (Chadwick, 1932).

6. Discovery of induced radioactivity (Curie-Joliot, 1934).

We shall pass over the field of isotopes without discussion. The
heavy isotopes of hydrogen, carbon, oxygen, etc., are of great im-
portance to nuclear physics and to biology but their use in the latter
field is largely a problem of chemistry—and I shall leave it to the
chemists to discuss.

Similarly, it will not be profitable in this discussion to describe in
detail the experimental techniques which have been developed for
producing high energy particles. It is the development of these
techniques, of course, which has made possible all the other ad-
vances: without them it would not be possible even to discuss in @
practical way the possible biological applications of nuclear physics.
In fact, there would be very little nuclear physics. The time may not
be far distant when a cyclotron or a Van de Graaff generator will be
standard equipment in large biological and medical research centers.
But our chief interest in this symposium is what these machines will
do rather than how they work. The principal thing they will do is to
produce transmutations of elements, and the products of these trans-
mutations are the things which biologists may find useful. I should
also mention, however, that resonance transformers and Van de
Graaff machines are also suitable, and are even now in use in several
medical centers, for the production of million-volt X-rays. Still
higher voltages can be produced as soon as they are required, but it
will be best to understand something of the effects of 1-million volt
X-rays before 2-million volt machines are built. These machines
bring X-ray energies right into the realm of gamma-rays, with avail-
able intensities which are thousands of times greater than those
attainable from natural radioactive sources.

The great importance of extending radiological investigations into
this region is sufficiently obvious. There is but one interesting point
worth mentioning. One advantage usually ascribed to high energy
X-rays is their greater penetrating power. However, this increase of
NUCLEAR PHYSICS—DUBRIDGE 229

penetrating power with increasing energy (decreasing wave length)
does not continue indefinitely. Above about 2.5 million volts (Mv)
the penetrating power of X-rays in lead begins to decrease again, so
that 3 Mv rays may actually be “softer’’ instead of ‘‘harder’”’ than 2
My. For lighter materials than lead the maximum of penetrating
power occurs at rather higher energies (10-12 Mv for Al) but the
existence of this maximum must be taken into account, and may offer
difficulties in the development of absorption and filtering techniques
which will have to be used with these multimillion volt machines.

But million-volt X-rays are really not new tools for biological work—
they are only more powerful forms of tools already familiar. We must
look to the results of experiments on the transmutation of elements
for the really new possibilities which nuclear physics will furnish to
biology. Among these the most promising are the last two listed
above, namely, the neutron and induced radioactivity, and to these
subjects I shall devote the remainder of this discussion.

THE NEUTRON

The neutron is a particle of mass 1 (actually 1.0090) and charge
zero. Itis one of the two fundamental building stones from which all
nuclei are constructed, the other being the proton (mass 1.0076,
charge +1). All nuclei are believed to be composed of these two
particles and no others. Neutrons may be ejected from various
nuclei by bombarding them with protons, deuterons, alpha-particles, or
gamma-rays. And this, in fact, is the only way in which neutrons
can be made available for use in experimental work. When radon
(radium emanation) is collected in a small capsule containing pow-
dered beryllium a convenient source of neutrons is obtained. The
neutrons are ejected by the bombardment of the beryllium nucleus
by the alpha-particles from radon according to the reaction

Be®+ He*=C?-+-n!.

The neutrons emerge with energies up to 13.7 million electron
volts (Mev) though most of them have much lower energies.?

While the intensity of the neutron beam obtainable from a radon-
beryllium source is sufficient for many purposes, enormously more
intense beams have been produced by the cyclotron. Lawrence has
reported neutron beams equivalent to what would be produced only
by several hundred kilograms of radium and beryllium. The reaction
often used in this case is the bombardment of beryllium by deuterons,
according to the reaction

Be?-+H?=B" +n}.

3 The kinetic energy which a particle of charge ¢ (electrostatic units) acquires in falling through a potential
difference of V volts is given by the relation K. E.=Vée/300. An uncharged particle such as the neutron
which has the same kinetic energy which an electron (or proton or any other single charged particle) would
acquire in falling through a potential difference of 1 Mv is said to have an energy of 1 Mev.
230 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938

What, then, are some of the properties of neutrons so produced?
In some ways a beam of neutrons is similar to a beam of gamma-rays.
They are undeflected by a magnetic field and have considerable pene-
trating power through heavy substances. They were, as a matter of
fact, mistaken for gamma-rays in the early experiments. A further
examination shows, however, profound differences between neutrons
and gamma-rays—and these differences may have biological impor-
tance. A gamma-ray loses energy in passing through matter largely
through the energy it imparts to the orbital electrons of the atoms
through which it passes. A gamma-ray, being an electromagnetic
radiation, has strong interaction with charged particles (electrons)
and these will sooner or later rob each gamma-ray of all its energy.
A neutron, however, being an uncharged particle, is not at all in-
fluenced by passing through an atmosphere of electrons. Its course
can be deflected or its velocity changed only by a close encounter
with the nucleus of an atom, and this is a rather rare occurrence.
Even when it does occur, if the nucleus against which the neutron
collides is heavy, the neutron will rebound without much loss of energy,
like a golf ball from a brick wall. The neutron is scattered but does
not slow down. The neutron is completely absorbed only in case it
enters the nucleus, and is there captured or causes the ejection of
another particle. In most substances this absorption probability is
very small and the neutrons therefore penetrate great thickness—
e. g., several feet of lead. On the other hand some substances, for
example cadmium, have a very large selective absorption for neutrons
of a particular velocity—and so rapidly remove neutrons of this
particular velocity from the beam.

When neutrons pass through light materials, especially materials
containing hydrogen, the situation is quite different. In collision with
a hydrogen nucleus, which has about the same mass as a neutron, the
neutron may lose a large fraction or all of its energy, imparting it to
the proton, as in the collision of two billiard balls. On the average
it gives up more than half its energy at each collision, and so in about
20 collisions a 5 Mev neutron will be slowed down to thermal energies
(0.1 electron volt or less). Thus a beam of fast neutrons after passing
through about 6 to 10 cm of paraffin will be largely slowed down to
thermal energies. At these low velocities neutrons are readily cap-
tured by a proton to form a deuteron, and so are quickly absorbed.
A block of paraffin or a water cell is thus an effective barrier for neu-
trons—though they could easily pass through several feet of lead.
The technique of handling neutron beams thus presents surprising
problems, which there is not time to discuss.®

4 Inelastic scattering (slowing down) of fast neutrons by heavy nuclei has recently been discovered at

Cornell.
5 For a full account see Rasetti, Nuclear, Physics, Prentice-Hall, 1936.
NUCLEAR PHYSICS—DUBRIDGE Zol

The problem of detecting and measuring neutron beams is also an
interesting one. Since neutrons do not interact appreciably with
atomic electrons they produce almost no ionization along their paths.
Hence, all the ordinary methods of detecting radiations (ionization
chambers, counters, cloud chambers, etc.) which depend on ionization,
are at first sight apparently useless. This difficulty is avoided by
making use of collisions of neutrons with protons. The recoil protons
produced in hydrogen-containing materials produce intense ioniza-
tion, and the intensity of this can be taken as a measure of neutron
intensity. The length of the recoil proton tracks produced in a
hydrogen-filled cloud chamber can be used as a measure of the neutron
velocities.

Still another method of detection is to make use of the disintegra-
tions produced by neutrons in which alpha-particles are ejected, the
alpha-particle ionization then being measured. The boron reaction
is particularly useful:

B”’+n'=Li'+ He’.

This reaction is particularly efficient for low energy neutrons, for
which the proton recoil ionization cannot be used. An ionization
chamber lined with boron or filled with boron fluoride gas is widely
used for the detection of neutrons.

Finally neutrons may be detected and measured by the amount
of induced radioactivity they produce in certain materials such as
silver.

It is evident from what has been said that the process by which a
neutron loses energy in passing through matter is quite distinct from
the processes by which gamma-rays or X-rays are absorbed. The
latter give their energies to electrons while neutrons give their energy
in appreciable quantities only to protons or other light nuclei. Elec-
trons produce relatively small ionization over a long path; protons
produce intense ionization over a short path; carbon nuclei, still
more intense ionization over a still shorter path. Since it is to be
expected that biological effects on individual cells will depend more
on ionization density than total number of ions, it will be rather
expected that neutrons will be more biologically effective than gamma-
rays or X-rays of the same intensity. Preliminary experiments by
Lawrence at California and by Zirkle of the Johnson Foundation
indicate that this is indeed the case. Certainly this matter should be
further investigated with great care and atonce. Asa matter of fact
many experiments on neutron effects on both plant and animal tissue
are now in progress, and there will be plenty of work in this field for
many years to come.
232 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938

There are difficulties in comparing neutron and X-ray effects which
ought to be pointed out. X-ray doses are commonly measured in
terms of the ionization produced in a standard chamber. Certain
types of X-ray ionization chambers, however, may show almost no
ionization for a neutron beam. A chamber used for neutrons must
be lined with paraffin or Bakelite or other hydrogen-containing ma-
terials. The amount of ionization produced by a given beam will
then depend greatly on the amount and arrangement of the materials
introduced. Thus an X-ray and a neutron beam which produce equal
ionization in one chamber will produce quite different effects in
another one differently constructed. And the difference will depend
on the energy (voltage) of the X-ray beam and the speed of the neu-
trons. On just what basis then can one say that neutrons are more
effective than X-rays, or vice versa, unless there is some way of com-
paring intensities? Up to the present time each worker in this field
has in general used a different type of ionization chamber, but in each
case one has been chosen in which it was believed that the proton-
recoil ionization would be comparable to what would be produced by
the neutrons in biological materials. The results of different workers
may be expected to be qualitatively comparable but it will soon be
desirable to develop methods of quantitative measurement of neutron
intensities relative to some arbitrary standard.

There is another important effect of neutrons which may be of
biological interest. Both slow and fast neutrons are very effective
in producing nuclear disintegrations, and in a large number of cases
the disintegrations lead to products which are radioactive. (We
shall have something to say about such materials later on.) In
some cases also these disintegration reactions are accompanied by
penetrating gamma-rays. A neutron is thus a “triple-threat man”’
since in passing through biological materials it may simultaneously
(1) produce recoil protons or other nuclei, (2) create radioactive
atoms, (3) excite gamma-rays. It may be necessary to treat indi-
vidually the biological results of these three processes. In most
cases it seems likely that the first will be most important since disin-
tegration probabilities are less than collision probabilities in general.
And the elements for which the disintegration probability (giving
rise to gamma-rays or radioactive products) is high are not materials
commonly present in biological tissues, e. g., cadmium, samarium,
and boron. Nevertheless, one should be on the lookout for cases in
which neutrons produce effects on materials containing very little
hydrogen, which may be due to disintegrations rather than collisions.
In the case of very slow neutrons (energies of a few electron volts or
less) recoil ionization will be absent and their effects (Gf any) will be
due solely to disintegrations.
NUCLEAR PHYSICS—DUBRIDGE 233

It is possible that this property of neutrons of converting certain
elements into their radioactive isotopes may be turned to good use.
It might, for example, prove useful to direct a slow neutron beam at
certain regions in the body and convert some of the elements present
there into radioactive isotopes, whose radioactivity would remain
for several hours after the neutron exposure had ceased. Since
almost every element may be made radioactive by neutrons there
are many possibilities to be considered. And this brings us directly,
then, to a discussion of the possible uses in biological work of artificially
produced radicactive materials.

INDUCED RADIOACTIVITY

It was in January 1934 that the Curie-Joliots reported that certain
targets bombarded by alpha-particles continued to emit positrons for
some time after the bombardment ceased. This positron activity
was found to decay exponentially with time, just as in the case of the
natural radioactive materials. By 1934 nuclear-physics technique
was quite well developed so that further studies of this induced radio-
activity were undertaken at once by many laboratories. And now,
a little over 3 years after the first announcement, over 220 radio-
active isotopes are known, including practically every element of the
periodic table and some beyond the end of the table. (Radioactive
isotopes of elements of atomic number 94, 95, and 96 were once
indicated but are ruled out by recent work.)

The existence of these radioactive isotopes is easily understood.
Each element in the periodic table has only a limited number (be-
tween 1 and 11) of stable isotopes'which are found innature. Thus flu-
orine has but one stable isotope, F"; oxygen has three with weights, 16,
17, 18; and so on throughout the table, the heavier elements in general
tending to have a larger number of stable isotopes. It is easy to see
that many nuclear disintegration processes may give rise to isotopes
of a particular element which are not found naturally and hence are
presumably unstable. Thus one can produce F"”, F8, and F”, all of
which are unstable. Such atoms can in general convert themselves
into stable ones by the ejection of a nuclear particle, and they will
do so in the course of time. In most cases this is accomplished by
the ejection of a positive or negative electron. These electrons are
expelled usually with coasiderable energy and the ionization they
produce is readily measured. Each unstable atom has a certain
probable lifetime, which is shorter the more unstable its nuclear
structure. So, just as in the case of a large population of individuals,
the number “dying” per unit time is proportional to the total num-

6 Electrons and positrons do not exist as such in the nucleus, but they may be created by the conversion

of a proton into a neutron and a positron, or by the conversion of a neutron into a proton and an electron,
the proper amount of energy being supplied or released.
234 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938

ber ‘“‘living.’’ And if none were being born the total population would
decrease exponentially with time. The period, or half-life, is the
time required for the number living (and also the death rate) to de-
crease to half its original value. This is just the law which governs
the radioactivity of the natural radioelements, such as radium.

As an example, if a C? nucleus should capture a proton the result-
ing nucleus would be N"™, the charge and mass both being increased
by 1. But N*® is not among the stable isotopes of nitrogen, though
it could convert itself into the stable C® by emitting a positron.
This is what happens and it is found that N® has a half-life of about
11 minutes. That is, if a large number of N™® atoms are formed at
a given time the number of positrons emitted per second by the whole
group falls to half its value in each succeeding 11 minute interval.
It is in general possible by some nuclear process to produce from one
to six or more radioactive isotopes of every element in the periodic
table (except hydrogen), and in many cases a particular isotope may
be produced by several different nuclear reactions. As an example
the radioactive Na* with a period of 14.8 hours may be produced by
bombarding the stable Na* by either neutrons or deuterons, by
bombarding Al by neutrons, or by bombarding Mg by neutrons or
deuterons; five reactions in all. The properties of Na™ are the same
no matter how it is produced. On decay the Na* atom emits a
negative electron and becomes stable Mg”.

A few of the radioactive isotopes of some of the elements which
occur commonly in biological materials are listed in table I. The
last column indicates how the isotopes are produced. For example
the notation B-d-n opposite C" indicates the bombardment of boron
(B) by deuterons (d) with the ejection of a neutron (n), the reaction
being

BYe+d—-CU+nl.

TaBLeE I.—Some typical radioactive isotopes.'

Atomic Element and Emitted

aaah ne particle Stable product Half-life Produced by:
Chekecccces eo} Bes rere ts + Bilas See 20:5 mins 32-625 B-d-n, B-p-y.
( a es NB aoe cons + 0) a 1 min®o22s2-.-- B-a-n, C-d-p, C-p-y.
eee Ono fe eee + NUS) 22S 126 seez eh 2s5-2- N-d-n, N-p-y.
Bag e  ek ING tesco - Maat? 22s 14:3 nto esos ase Na-d-n, etc
1) eee Migar soe ak ae _ ANN. . o 22s b SS TOimins-s2l52--. Meg-d-n, Al-n-p, Mg-n-y.
11 ae era eC) epee Bee ee - pic tees Jab GaySeccno asco P-d-p, S-d-a, P-n-y, ete
1652222 Se See aoe - Ciltti32 ee 80 days- 255 22.22- Cl-n-p.
1 ape ee a (9) a a _ (A Soe eee Yes Cabo eae eee eee Cl-d-p, Cl-n-y, K-n-a
19 Sots Ci ee _ Ontti i sate O29} 1) Pao Seen K-n-y, K-d-p, etc
| etait (0) a ae - Bells see see eee PM Ves a ae Se Ca-n-y, Ca-d-p, T-n-a.
eee Het. .2-- 5222 ? Coe 2. -24-5248 AMORYS= 205255452 Fe-d-p.
pelea noel Fie j OL Le eae = ot aes Ae Ayia a ey oe ea I-n-y.
802 eS ne (7 eee see _- SPA: = Sle CN 6 Heg-n-y.
7 a ee Pps ese _ 25 0 elie ss Sisidays:-..2..25-4 Pb-d-p.
See eee eee ee eee

1 For a complete tabulation, see Livingston and Bethe, Rev. Mod. Phys., vol. 9, p. 359, 1937.
NUCLEAR PHYSICS—DUBRIDGE Zoo

The other notations are similar, the symbols 7, d, n, a, y standing
respectively for proton, deuteron, neutron, alpha-particle (He nucleus)
and gamma-ray. In general the bombarding particle must have an
energy of from 1 to 5 million electron volts. To produce reasonable
amounts of radioactive material intense beams of such particles must
be available. This requires a cyclotron or some form of high-voltage
equipment.

The possibilities of using these materials in particular biological
problems are so numerous that we can mention only a few by way of
illustration. The more obvious possibilities (others are certain to
come) may be grouped in two classes.

1. Therapeutic uses—Radioactive isotopes of suitable elements
may be injected into the body or directly into the organ to be treat-
ed. If it is found (and this requires much careful study) that the
radiations they emit have definite therapeutic effects, then it is pos-
sible that induced radioactive isotopes may be more conveniently and
effectively used than the naturally radioactive materials. Of par-
ticular interest is the possibility of selective irradiation of various
organs of the body through the use of radioactive isotopes of ele-
ments which happen to be concentrated in those organs either under
normal or diseased conditions. Thus one would use radioactive
calcium or phosphorus for bone treatment, radio-iodine for the
thyroid, etc., the active material going automatically to the spot
where it is needed.

The clinical applications of these materials are thus both important
and possibly spectacular. For this reason they have been perhaps
prematurely hailed as a new boon to medicine. They certainly open
up new possibilities, but their practical value is yet to be demonstrated
and this will require a long period of careful research.

2. Tracing—From the viewpoint of fundamental biology the use
of radioactive materials as tracers is of far more interest than the
therapeutic uses. In this field there are almost unbelievable possibil-
ities which represent the most biologically promising of all aspects of
nuclear physics. A prominent physiologist is quoted as stating his
belief that the technique of using radioactive materials as tracers in
biology may open a new era in that subject in as fundamental a way
as did the invention of the microscope. The microscope made it
possible to follow individual cells—the radioactive isotopes make it
possible to follow individual atoms.

The uses to which this tool could be put are so many that it is as
yet difficult even to classify them. Almost any chemical or biological
problem in which it is desirable to follow the course of particular
elements or compounds through a given system should be open to
attack by this method. I will mention a few such problems which
happen to have come to my attention for purpose of illustration.
236 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938

1. The role of phosphorus in bodily metabolism.” Phosphorus is an
extremely important element to both plants and animals; phosphates
appear in the teeth and bones, and the internal organs contain phos-
phorus in the form of organic compounds, such as the phospholipids.
Many important questions arise, some of which can be answered by
chemical methods and some not. How much of the phosphorus intake
at a given time actually reaches the bones and teeth? How long after
intake does it arrive at a given point? How rapid is the replacement?
By what path through the bodily organs does it arrive? How are all
of these things affected by abnormal conditions of diet or of disease?
All of these questions and more can be answered by administering
radiophosphorus—in the food or otherwise—and then following the
radioactivity as it appears and disappears in various organs, the blood,
the bones or teeth. Radiophosphorus (P%*) can be made in fairly
strong samples by deuteron bombardment of ordinary phosphorus.
The radiophosphorus can be combined into any compound after it is
activated, and can, therefore, be fed or injected in the most convenient
form. The half-life of P® is about 14.8 days, so the activity of a given
strong sample may be followed for many months. It decays with the
emission of an electron, going to S* which itself is probably harmless
but in any case would be formed in amounts far too small to produce
observable effects. By periodically testing the activity of samples
taken from various parts of the body—either during the life of the
animal or after killing and ashing—the amount and rate of phosphorus
arrival may be determined with considerable precision. The many
possibilities are sufficiently obvious as to require no further discussion
before this group. Some work along this line has already been under-
taken at various laboratories, with prelimimary results which show
clearly the power, accuracy, and feasibility of the method. Some
surprising results concerning phosphorus mobilization during certain
diseases have already been indicated. J shall have to leave them to be
discussed by those more familiar with biology than I am.

It is evident that similar studies could be made with almost any
other element of interest; calcium, potassium, iodine, iron, etc. The
only question which arises is whether there exists a radioactive isotope
of the element in question whose period is sufficiently long to make the
studies feasible. Here, of course, the physicist is somewhat helpless.
He can make radioactive isotopes at will, but he has no control over the
period of the resulting product; he must take what comes. Each
isotope has its own characteristic period, determined by its own
nuclear instability. The only hope is, if suitable periods of certain
elements are not now known, that new isotopes will some day be
discovered which are better adapted for such work. Nature has been

7 The author is indebted to Dr. Wm. F. Bale of the University of Rochester School of Medicine for out-
lining the uses of radiophospborus.
NUCLEAR PHYSICS—DUBRIDGE 237

fairly kind in this respect in providing so many periods of suitable
length, and you may be sure that physicists will be busy for some
time to come finding new ones.

2. Evidently a similar technique instead of being used on the body
as a whole may be applied to studies of metabolism within individual
organs, in nerves or muscles, even in individual cells. Many physi-
ologists have already recognized these possibilities, and some have
already planned programs along this line.

3. As the chemical nature of viruses, of hormones, and of various
gland secretions become better known it should be possible to follow the
behavior of these important but elusive agents, or to gain further
information about their chemical composition..

4. There are many purely chemical or biochemical problems to
which the tracing technique would seem applicable. Studies of chemi-
cal changes accompanying respiration would seem to be possible with
the use of radio-oxygen—though the known periods unfortunately
are rather short. The possibility of tracing individual carbon atoms
in various organic reactions might well open up a new field in organic
and biochemistry.

J think these few examples will serve to illustrate the many possi-
bilities—some of which will lie along lines which no one can now
foresee.

From what has been said you will see that the power of the radio-
active tracing technique results from the following fortunate facts:

1. Radioactive isotopes of an element are chemically identical with
the stable isotopes and will therefore behave in precisely the same way
in all chemical or biological processes.

2. The active isotopes can be detected in extremely small quantities.
In some cases it is possible to detect the presence in a given sample
of as few as 1,000 atoms of a given isotope. The presence of a million
atoms would give accurately measurable results. This sensitivity
results from the fact that impulse counters of various types, such as
the Geiger-Miiller tube counter, will register each individual 6-ray
(+ or — electron) entering it. If the geometrical conditions are
properly chosen, from 0.1 to ¥ of all the B-rays arising in a given sample
may be made to enter the counter. The fundamental law of radio-
active decay is that the number of disintegrations occurring per
second is proportional to the total number of atoms present, i. e.,

dN/dt=— XN,

where \=0.693/T where 7 is the half-life in seconds. Thus for
T=1,000 sec. = 17 min. and for N~=1,000

dN/dt=0.693 disintegrations per sec.
=41.5 per minute.
238 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938

This is an observable number, even if only 1/10th of the 6-rays pro-
duced enter the counter. In the case of P*it is easy to prepare samples
giving more than 10° disintegrations per minute or about 20,000
persec. Since 7=14.8 days=1.3X 10° sec., we find N&3 X10" radio-
active atoms. This is only about 10~® microgram. And if 0.01
percent of this amount appeared in any sample taken from an organism
it could still be detected.

3. While it is possible that the presence of radioactive material in
large quantities in certain organs might have definite biological effects
on them due to the radiations emitted, and thus give abnormal results
in metabolism experiments, it seems evident that in most cases the
doses given may be made sufficiently small as to preclude any
important effects due to the radiation itself.

4. Finally—and this should be strongly emphasized—the tech-
nique of detecting and measuring the radioactivity of any material is
simple and capable of good precision. And when one recalls the days
or weeks of work required to make a quantitative chemical analysis of
substances containing a few micrograms of the element of interest,
and the utter hopelessness of detecting changes involving only 107”
to 107 grams, one sees the radioactive technique as child’s play.
And when one recalls that this relatively simple technique not only
detects these small quantities of material, but actually distinguishes
between the atoms already present (which were not radioactive) and
those introduced at a particular time (which are) the possibilities
become quite exciting. It is almost as though each individual atom
carried a red flag to herald its presence. (It is even better than this
since we know too little of the biological effects of red flags!)

The most common instrument which will likely be used in such
investigations is the Geiger-Miiller tube counter. This device,
undoubtedly familiar to you, consists of a conducting cylinder along
the axis of which is suspended a fine wire. A potential difference of
the order of 1,000 volts is applied between them. The whole is
enclosed in a gas-tight envelope filled with air or other gas at a pres-
sure of a few cm of Hg. A thin window must be provided for the
entrance of slow 8-particles. The counter wire is connected to a
two- or three-stage amplifier which feeds a loud speaker or suitable
registering equipment. ‘The entry of a @-ray into the cylinder causes a
click in the speaker, or the pulse may be used to operate a mechanical
register. Counter tube, rectifier, amplifier, and registering device
may ail be contained in a box the size of a small radio set. Observa-
tions consist merely in determining the number of registrations per
unit time. Unfortunately such counters respond also to radioactive
impurities which are always present in the air and in solid materials of

§ For further discussion and references see Harnwell and Livingwood, Experimental Atomic Physics
p. 412, McGraw-Hill, 1933.
NUCLEAR PHYSICS—DUBRIDGE 239

the counter itself; and they also respond to cosmic rays. This means
there will be a background of from 5 to 25 counts per minute which
must be carefully determined and subtracted from the total observed
with the source in place. It is this background which limits the
ultimate sensitivity of the device, for the source being tested should
produce a number of counts per minute at least as large as the back-
ground. Statistical fluctuations become important for low counting
rates but can be reduced by extending the time of counting. A total
of 10,000 counts must be made if the precision is to be as high as
1 percent, but only 100 counts will give 10 percent precision.

It is thus evident that simple readings of a clock and a registering
device plus a little arithmetic is all that is involved in following
atoms from place to place through even a complex biological system.
It has been the experience that biologists who use this technique
for the first time become wildly excited over the relatively simple way
in which studies of most fundamental importance can be carried out.
I shall expect this experience to be often repeated during coming
years.
ee Ih,

J

>

| i
shied 74-6 ean Sa

(Ole al

we aed

Smithsonian Report, 1933.—DuBridge PLATE 1

1. The difference in biological action between X-rays and neutrons is illustrated above. The upper figure
made by C. T. R. Wilson shows the tracts of electrons ejected from atoms in a cloud chamber by X-rays,
while the lower one made by E. O. Lawrence shows the recoil protons produced by neutrons traversing
a cloud chamber.

2. Cloud chamber photograph showing the emission of positrons by radioactive nitrogen which was pro-
duced when the carbon plate shown at the right was bombarded by 900,000 electron-volt protons. (Ander-
son and Neddermeyer.)
“SIVINALVIA, SAILSVOINCVY HLIM HYOM
TWOIlSO1OIG HOS HALSSHOOY AO ALISYBAINN AHL LY GASN ‘YALNNOD 3AENL YSATINW-YSDIAD V ,,“adOOSOUSIWN,, WOIDO0T1K0IG MAN SHL

2 3aLvid aBpugnd—'g¢6| ‘Wwodey ueruosyqwG
ELECTRON THEORY!

By R. G. KLOEFFLER
Fellow of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers

The discovery of the electron dates back to the beginning of the
present century. This important event was foreshadowed by many
early experiments and theories. In 1725, DuFay discovered that the
gaseous region around a red-hot body would conduct electricity. In
1879, Crookes found that the rays in his experimental tubes were
negatively charged particles. Edison’s experiments with the incan-
descent lamp led to the discovery in 1883 that an electric current did
flow from an incandescent filament to a plate in a vacuum but that
it would flow in only one direction. This is known as the Edison
effect. J. J. Thomson is generally given credit for the discovery of
the electron because of his experiments and reports to the scientific
world in a period shortly before and after the year 1900. He devel-
oped a very ingenious method for measuring the charge on the ion
and secured an approximate value of the magnitude of that charge.
Wilson and other scientists made some improvements on Thomson’s
method and secured other approximate values for the magnitude of
the charge of the electron. It remained for an American physicist,
Robert Millikan, to make further refinements in the method of meas-
uring the magnitude of the charge and thereby secure results an-
nounced to the world in 1913 which were absolutely convincing as to
the existence of and the value of that fundamental electrical charge
on the electron. This electron was a minute indivisible negative
charge of electricity having a very small mass. The term “electron”
has always been associated with the negative charge while the term
‘‘positive electron” has been associated with another complimentary
unit, the proton.

Four years ago a cosmic-ray photograph taken at the Norman
Bridge Laboratory showed unmistakable evidence of the track of a
particle having the same mass and the same magnitude as the charge
on the electron but of the opposite sign. ‘Thus was discovered the
true positive electron, or what is often termed the positron. This
recent discovery of the positron has raised many questions in the
scientific mind and has tended to upset some of our well-accepted
theories regarding matter.

1 Reprinted by permission from Electrical Engineering, vol. 67, No. 1, January 1938.

241
242 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938

NATURE OF ELECTRICITY

The scientific world has offered many theories regarding the nature
of electricity. Benjamin Franklin’s single-fluid theory was one of the
first. His theory pictured a colorless, weightless, invisible fluid or
“electrical fire’ which could permeate all matter. A normal amount
of this fluid caused a body to be neutral, an excess amount produced
a positive charge, while a deficiency gave rise to a negative charge.
Later theories were offered by Faraday, Maxwell, and others. It
remained for the discovery of the electron to give a definite basis for
theories and conceptions which would come nearer to satisfying the
inquiring mind of man. Up until 1910 or later, it was generally con-
ceded that no one knew anything of the nature of electricity, though

ELECTRON ELECTRON

NUCLEUS

PROTON

Figurz 1.—Strncture of the atom FIGURE 2.—Structure of the hydrogen
according to Bohr. atom.

men understood quite well many of the characteristics, properties,
and laws of magnetism, electric charges, and electric currents. The
general acceptance of the electron gave rise to new theories and con-
ceptions in the fields of chemistry, physics, and electricity. The
molecule had been long considered the smallest divisible part of mat-
ter, the atom the smallest division of an element, and now the electron,
an indivisible and fundamental electric charge, a mere speck of elec-
tricity, became a part of the atom. Science gave the electron a mate,
a proton, or a positively charged particle having the same charge as
the electron but a mass 1,834 times as large. Then these two funda-
mental building blocks, the electron and the proton, became the basis
of all chemical elements. The difference between the elements was
determined by the number of pairs (electron and proton) going to
constitute the atom. Bohr furnished a mechanical model or picture
to show the structure of the building blocks within the atom. This
model (fig. 1) envisions a structure like a small solar system having
a nucleus surrounded by one or more particles moving in orbits. The
nucleus has a positive charge and contains all of the protons in the
atom. It may also contain a part of the electrons, with the remainder
of the electrons moving in orbits about this nucleus. The hydrogen
ELECTRON THEORY——-KLOEFFLER 243

atom has the simplest structure. It consists of a single proton con-
stituting the nucleus with a single electron revolving in a surrounding
orbit (fig. 2).

To get a conception of the relative physical size of this hydrogen
atom, all parts of the atom may be imagined to be expanded until
the nucleus, which is the proton, has the diameter of a baseball and
is placed in Dallas, Tex. Then the lone planetary electron will revolve
in an orbit which passes through New York City and San Francisco,
and the size of this expanded electron will be 300 feet in diameter, or
about big enough to rest comfortably in a football stadium or a baseball
park. This picture shows the relatively “big hole’ or empty space in
an atom and explains why some electrons and atomic particles may
be projected through many atoms before being stopped.

In order to explain radiation phenomena, Bohr assumed that there
are a number of possible orbits in which the revolving electrons may
move and that the jumping of the electron from one orbit to another
is due to the absorption or radiation of energy. Consequently, the
orbits are often referred to as energy levels. The orbits are pictured
as circles or ellipses and usually as a combination of both in order to
explain various atomic phenomena.

At the time when many electrical engineers were in the college
classroom, teachers did not attempt to give any physical conception
of the phenomenon of electricity or of the units of measurement
which were employed. ‘The scientist, the teacher, and the student of
former days accepted electrical phenomena as a matter of fact, and,
in common with the layman, said, ‘‘We do not know anything of the
nature of electricity.” Today there are some conceptions which
have arisen from the discovery and measurements of the electron and
from our pictures of atomic structure. Thus, to take the case of the
phenomenon of attraction and repulsion of charged bodies, a posi-
tively charged body is one in which a large number of electrons have
been removed from the body so that the total number of positively
charged protons exceeds the number of electrons present. Thus the
body has a strong attraction for electrons and it is said to be positively
charged. In like manner, a negatively charged body has an excess of
electrons above protons and this body exerts a strong attraction for
protons, an excess of which may be found in a positively charged
body.

ELECTRIC CURRENTS

Two bodies oppositely charged have a difference of potential be-
tween them. A difference of potential or voltage is measured by the
work required to carry a unit positive charge from one body to another
against the force of attraction or repulsion. The magnitude of the
difference of potential depends upon the concentration of the charge

114728—39_—_17
244 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938

and not on the amount of the charge. Thus an excess of a billion
electrons on a sphere 10 centimeters in diameter would have only one-
tenth as much potential as it would have if concentrated on a sphere
1 centimeter in diameter. The 110 volts at the ends of a lighting
circuit are due to an enormous concentration of electrons along one
wire and a corresponding deficiency in the other. When a human
being contacts this circuit, the excess of electrons in one wire attempts
to pass through the body to the other wire with a result well under-
stood as far as one’s feeling is concerned.

If a positively charged and a negatively charged body are brought
in contact, electrons from the body with negative charge (excess of
electrons) will move over to the body having the positive charge
(deficiency of electrons) until an equilibrium of charge has taken
place. This transfer of electrons from one body to another consti-
tutes an electric current. Thus we can picture the phenomenon of
electric current as a transfer or coordinated movement of electrons
along a path or circuit. The protons do not move in solids because
their mass is 1,834 times as great as the electrons, and because of
their firm attachment to the atom itself. The magnitude of an
electric current is determined by the number of electrons which pass
a given point in a circuit per unit of time. To produce an electric
current of one ampere, 6.310" electrons must pass a point in one
second. The individual electrons may move along the circuit slowly
or quickly. Thus in a high-voltage vacuum tube, the electrons may
move with a velocity approaching that of light, whereas in another
part of the circuit they may drift along at a ‘“‘snail’s pace” of only a
fraction of a centimeter per second.

The direction of the movement of electrons in an electric circuit is
opposite to the conventional direction of current as adopted by
scientists many years ago. Thus the early choice of direction of
current was unfortunate in that it complicates conceptions and
explanations in electronic devices. All remarks in this discussion
will pertain to the direction of electron movement.

CURRENT FLOW IN SOLIDS AND LIQUIDS

An electric current in a solid is due to the movement of ‘“‘free”’
electrons along that solid. The ‘free’ electrons are not ‘‘extras” or
those electrons above the normal number to balance the protons, but
rather electrons which at certain instants are free from their parent
atom to be moved on to another atom ina sort of relay race. Although
the molecules are close together within a metallic solid, they do have
a movement due to thermal kinetic energy and this movement increases
with the temperature. The electrons, in turn, have a movement
about their nuclei and at certain positions, due to the molecular
action and the electron action, the electrons may become as close to
ELECTRON THEORY—KLOEFFLER 245

the nuclei of other atoms as their parent. At that instant the urge
resulting from a difference of potential can easily move these free
electrons along the circuit.

The passage of an electric current through a liquid is easily under-
stood on the basis of the electron theory. Distilled water is practically
an insulator but when an acid or base is added to the water it becomes
a conductor. It appears that part of the molecules of the added
material automatically dissociate imto fragments or ions. Thus
hydrochloric acid separates into H+ and Cl— and sodium chloride
into Na+- and Cl—. This means that the H and Na atoms con-
stituting the positive ion have lost one electron and are positively
charged. In a similar manner, the Cl atom has an additional electron
and carries a negative charge. If a difference of potential is applied
to electrodes in the solution, the negative ions will travel to the
positive electrode and give up an electron. In lke manner, the
positive ion will travel to the negative electrode and take on an
electron. Thus the ions serve as carriers to convey electrons through
the solution and this movement of electrons constitutes the electric
current.

CURRENT FLOW IN GASES

Conduction of electricity through gases is produced through the
medium of ions as in a liquid but the ions are produced in a different
manner. Gas ions may result from the bombardment of gas atoms
by high-speed electrons or ions, and by the action of electromagnetic
waves of suitable frequency. If a high-speed electron is projected into
a gas, it will collide with some of the molecules of that gas. The
collision usually occurs with the electrons in the outer orbits of gas
atoms. The result may be merely the change of direction of the
flying electron or it may be the actul removal of an electron from the
outer orbit of the gas atom. When the disruption of the atom takes
place, the remaining part of the atom has lost an electron, is positively
charged, and is called a positive ion. The electron which is removed
may remain a free electron and as such it is a negative ion. It may
join another neutral atom and thus form a negative ion of a different
kind as far as mass is concerned.

The two gas ions formed by the bombardment of a single electron
will move to electrodes having a difference of potential and placed
within that gas. In transit to the electrodes these gas ions will collide
with other gas molecules and if the difference of potential is sufficiently
high and other conditions favorable, these collisions will result in the
production of other gas ions. The latter ions may likewise produce
still others while in transit to their respective electrodes. Thus
ionization of a gas becomes somewhat accumulative in action and
fairly large currents may result.
246 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938

The collisions of electrons and ions with atoms are probably not
physical contacts as when a baseball bat hits a ball, but rather the
repulsion between the charges on the individual electrons and ions.
The molecules of a gas are in a constant state of violent motion and the
electrons, in turn, are moving about in their respective orbits. It can
readily happen that the relative directions of motion of the electrons
are such that an electron is caused to leave its parent atom and
produce ions.

An interesting byproduct of ionization occurs when a colliding
electron does not have sufficient velocity to produce ionization but
does cause an electron in an outer orbit to jump to another orbit
of higher energy level. The energy absorbed by this change of orbit
is released in the form of a visible electromagnetic wave as soon as the
electron drops back into its original orbit. The visible radiation or
light is of a color characteristic of the element constituting the gas
molecule. Frequently the light is monochromatic. This principle
of light production underlies all of the gaseous and vapor electric
illuminating sources, such as the neon, mercury-vapor, and sodium-

vapor lamps.
RESISTANCE TO CURRENT FLOW

Electric resistance is that property of a circuit which opposes the
passage of acurrent. It is easily explained on the basis of the electron
theory. In a solid conductor resistance is due to the collision of the
electrons which constitute the current with the atoms and molecules
of that solid. The magnitude of the resistance depends on the num-
ber of free electrons available. In a similar manner, the resistance of
an electrolyte or gas is determined by the number of ions produced
and by the number of collisions between the moving ions and the
molecules present. The influence of temperature on resistance is
readily explained. In a pure metal a rise in temperature increases
the kinetic thermal energy, speeds up the motion of the molecules,
and hence tends to increase the number and the violence of the
collisions, thus increasing the resistance.

It is of interest to note that the “‘hither and yon”’ movement of free
electrons in solids does produce infinitesimal differences of potentials
or voltages at the ends of conductors. These minute voltages intro-
duce noise termed ‘‘resistance noise” in high-gain amplifiers and limit
the smallness of signals which can be amplified satisfactorily.

ELECTRONIC DEVICES

The first electronic device was the two-electrode tube patented by
Fleming in 1903 and known for several years as the Fleming valve.
It took the place of the coherer as a detector of wireless telegraph
signals. This device has grown to be the detector and the rectifier
ELECTRON THEORY—KLOEFFLER 247

of our modern electronic application. DeForest added a third elec-
trode or grid to the Fleming valve and patented the three-electrode
tube in 1907. For many years it was known as the DeForest audion.
This device was primarily an amplifier of electric current, and it
constitutes one of the greatest inventions of this century.

FREEING ELECTRONS FROM SOLIDS

The operation of most electronic devices depends upon the removal
of electrons from solids in some manner. One method for removal is
accomplished by impact on the solid of an electron, an ion, or the
nucleus of an atom. A violent impact may splash electrons from the
outer orbits of atoms lying in the surface of the metal. Electrons
splashed out in this manner are known as delta rays.

Electrons may also be “brushed out” or released from a few sensi-
tive substances by the impinging of electromagnetic radiations of
suitable frequency. The elec- _
tromagnetic radiations are {*
light waves, either visible or 2
invisible. This phenomenon 2:
of electron removal forms the *:
basis of action in photoelectric =:
cells. oud
A third method for the re- =
moval of electrons from solids a
is through the application of %:
heat. This method is known *:
by the term thermionic emis-
sion and is used in millions of
electron tubes of today. The
nature of this emission is not difficult to visualize. The electrons are
bound to the atoms by their attraction for the nucleus. The electrons
are bound to the molecules and to the substance of which they are a
part by an attraction called electron affinity and the energy required
to remove an electron from a substance is termed the work function.
The molecules are in a constant state of agitation while the electrons,
in turn, are moving about in the orbits of the atoms. The kinetic
agitation of the molecules rises with the temperature and at a suffi-
ciently high temperature the velocity of motion of a few electrons
may become great enough to break through the surface of the solid.
This escape of the electron is called emission and it may be pictured
as in figure 3. Part a shows the emission at a relatively low tempera-
ture. At the higher temperature a cloud or atmosphere of electrons
emanates or evaporates from the hot filament or cathode as shown
in part 6. When the electrons are hurled forth by their kinetic energy,
they give to the cathode an image positive charge which exerts a force

25 5 ogee = ores

FIGURE 3.—Emission of electrons from a heated body.
248 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938

of attraction. Thus as soon as the electron breaks through the sur-
face, it is attracted back and, barring the presence of other fields and
forces, it drops back into the cathode. Electron emission was studied
by Richardson who reasoned that it was similar to the phenomenon of
evaporation of liquids. Richardson suggested an equation now bear-
ing his name for showing the magnitude of current emitted.

The materials used for cathodes which are satisfactory for electron
emission are tungsten, thoriated tungsten, and oxide-coated alloys.
Pure tungsten cathodes operate at a high temperature; they are strong
and will withstand positive-ion bombardment better than the other
emitters. The thoriated-tungsten cathode was developed by Lang-
muir and his coworkers. It consists of tungsten containing a small
amount of thorium oxide. Ata suitably high temperature the oxide
is reduced to thorium which diffuses through the metal and forms a
layer of pure thorium on the surface of the cathode. The thorium
layer, one atom thick is the source of electron emission. Wehnelt
found that certain oxides when placed on a metal base became excel-
lent emitters at relatively low temperatures. Strontium and barium
oxides have proved to be the best. During operation a thin layer of
barium forms on the surface of the oxide and this serves as the source
of emission of electrons.

ACTION OF ELECTRON TUBES

The value of nearly all electron tubes lies in their property of uni-
lateral conductivity (that is, the ability to conduct current in one
direction but not in the other). This property was shown in the
“Edison effect’? and was the basis of action of the Fleming valve.
The reason for this property can be readily understood. Consider
two electrodes placed in a tube having a high vacuum as shown in
figure 4. Let F represent the cathode which is heated so as to be
emitting a copious supply of electrons and P is the anode connected
through a battery to the cathode. If the battery is connected so that
P is positive with respect to the cathode, as ina, the negatively charged
electrons will be attracted toward P and part of them will land on
P, thus constituting an electric current through the vacuum. How-
ever, if the battery be connected so that P is negative with respect
to F, as in part 6, it will repel the electrons and no current will pass.
Obviously, if an alternating source of potential be substituted for the
battery, electrons will pass to P for those loops of voltage when P is
positive but will not do so when P is negative. Thus this two-
electrode device becomes a rectifier of alternating current. The
factors which control the flow of electrons between the cathode and
the anode or plate P are not entirely evident on the surface. Thus
the number of electrons which pass to P in a tube having a high
ELECTRON THEORY—KLOEFFLER 249

vacuum depends first on the initial velocity of emission of the electrons
which is determined by the temperature of the cathode; second, upon
the attraction of the cathode for the electrons; third, upon the attrac-
tion of the plate which depends on the plate voltage; and, fourth,
upon the space charge. The fourth factor, space charge, is due to
the resultant charge in the space surrounding the cathode caused by
the presence of the electrons which are being emitted. A cloud of
electrons surrounding a cathode may be pictured as in figure 3.
Each of these electrons is a negative charge and as such exerts a re-
pulsion on all other electrons in its vicinity. At the instant a par-
ticular electron emerges from the cathode, all electrons in space are
exerting a repelling force but as it moves away from the cathode all
of those behind it are repelling or now aiding it toward the plate.
The influence of space charge is very effective in a high vacuum and
it was once believed that no emission would exist in a perfect vacuum.
The two-electrode high-vacuum tube with tungsten filament is used for
rectifying high voltages for use
in radio-transmitting stations,
X-ray equipment, smoke eli-
minators, and wherever a high
continuous voltage is desired.
The two-electrode vacuum
tube is used as a detector in

; ae SUL yi ees
modern radio-receiving sets. (a) “ + (b)

The addition of a small
amount of gas to a two-elec-
trode tube changes its characteristic action. The presence of the gas
permits ionization to occur and the positive and negative ions thus
formed pass to the cathode and anode, respectively. The ions serve
as carriers of electrons and increase the current slightly but a large in-
crease in current results from another action. Thus the negative ions
formed are electrons and are attracted swiftly to the positive anode.
The positive ions are atoms (less one or more electrons) and because
of their large mass they move relatively slowly. Each positive ion
can neutralize the charge on one electron in the space charge at a
given instant, but because of its slow motion it serves to neutralize
many electrons while in transit. Thus it is possible for a single
positive ion to neutralize successively as many as 300 electrons in the
space charge. The neutralization of the space charge permits the
positive anode to attract many more emitted electrons and thus the
current through the tube is greatly increased.

The gas-filled two-electrode tube is inherently a low-voltage device
(that is, it has a low voltage drop from cathode to anode). It rectifies
much larger currents than the vacuum type and is used for charging
storage batteries and similar low-power D. C. applications.

FIGURE 4.—Diagram of two-electrode tube or diode.
250 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938

CONTROL OF ELECTRON TUBES

DeForest added a third electrode, known as the grid, to the electron
tube. In application in the tube, the grid (fig. 5) is a screen or wire
mesh placed between the emitter or cathode and the anode or plate.
The grid functions by means of a change of potential or charge upon
its surface. This change of potential on the grid becomes an addi-
tional force acting upon the electrons surrounding the cathode and
because of its nearness to the cathode exerts a very powerful influence
upon the electron stream to the anode. The figure is a cross-sectional
view which shows the usual location of the control grid in a three-
electrode tube or triode. If a small positive potential be placed upon
the grid, it will exert a relatively powerful pull upon all electrons
which emerge from the surface of the cathode. This pull will be
added to the effect of their initial velocity of emission and will oppose
the repelling effect of space charge. The result of this action is that
many electrons will move out farther from
the cathode and come under the influence
of the positive anode and thus pass to
the anode. Any increase in the positive
potential of the grid will cause still more
of the electrons to move to the plate.
Conversely, a small negative potential on
the grid will repel every electron that
emerges from the cathode and add its
weight to the effects of space charge and
cathode attraction. Thus many electrons
which otherwise would be carried far
enough by their initial velocity of emission
to travel to the plate will now be held in
check by the repelling force of the negative grid. It is obvious that
a sufficiently negative potential on the grid would bar all electrons
from ever reaching the anode. Thus it is apparent that a suitable
variation of potential placed on the grid will control accurately the
flow of current in the cathode-anode circuit. Since a mere change of
potential does not involve any expenditure of power we have the
strange phenomenon of controlling a large amount of power with-
out the use of any power. In the actual application of the triode
or three-electrode tube, the circuit for the grid does use some small
amount of power. The triode thus is inherently an amplifier of
alternating currents and as such it finds its greatest application.

lajat

FIGURE 5.—Diagram of three-eloctrode
tube or triode.

USE OF ELECTRON TUBES

Radio signals of telegraph, voice, or television are sent out through
space by means of very high-frequency alternating currents called
carriers. This method is necessary since lower frequencies will not
ELECTRON THEORY—KLOEFFLER 251

travel through space very far. The various low-frequency signals to
be transmitted are impressed upon the high frequencies by a process
of forming, molding, or modulating. At the receiving end of a radio
circuit the impressed signals must be demodulated or detected and
thus recovered from the high-frequency carrier.

The three-electrode tube or triode is used first as an oscillator in a
resonant circuit for producing the high-frequency carrier current.
Secondly, this type of tube is used to modulate or mold the low-
frequency signal into the high-frequency carrier. In the third place,
the triode may be used in the receiver as a detector or remover of the
low-frequency signal from the transmitted carrier. Lastly, triodes
are used in cascade for amplifying the feeble received signal so that
it may be suitable for the desired purpose.

Additional electrodes, usually some type of grid, have been added
to the three-electrode tube to increase the range of amplification, to
improve the fidelity of amplification, or to
prevent oscillations. The heavy loading controL——=
of a triode by wide fluctuations in the aE
grid potential and the resulting plate cur-
rent may introduce distortion of the ampli-
fied signal and may produce oscillations
because of the feedback of the grid-plate
capacitance. To reduce such undesirable
results, a fourth electrode known as a
screen grid may be introduced between
the control grid and the plate, as shown
in figure 6. This screen grid is connected
to a source giving it a fixed potential

FicuRE 6.—Diagram of four-electrode
somewhat under the normal plate voltage. . ated
The screen then serves to establish a fixed
potential in space giving a constant attraction upon all emitted elec-
trons regardless of any variation of plate voltage and it greatly
reduces the grid-plate capacitance.

A curious phenomenon may result in the use of the screen-grid tube
if a low plate voltage be encountered. Thus, at all positive values of
plate voltage above 10 to 20 volts, the electrons hitting the plate
produce secondary emission (splash out electrons from the plate). In
the triode these electrons of secondary emission are attracted back to
the plate but in the screen-grid tube for a certain range of low values
of plate potential, the splashed-out electrons are attracted back to the
screen grid (fig. 7). In special cases it is possible for more electrons
of secondary emission to go to the screen grid than there are electrons
arriving at the plate. Under this condition the plate current will
reverse or become negative. Even though the plate current does not
reverse, the electrons of secondary emission, which pass to the screen

SCREEN
GRID

x RRL RARE
252 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938

grid, do introduce distortion in the tube when used as an amplifier
under the conditions assumed. To prevent this phenomenon, which
occurs only under abnormal
conditions, a fifth electrode
known as a suppressor grid is
placed between the screen grid
and the plate. This suppressor
grid (fig. 8) is connected to the
cathode or to ground potential.
Thus a zero potential is estab-
lished in the space between
the screen grid and the plate.
Under these conditions the
screen grid has no effect on the
electrons splashed out and all

return to the plate so that no
P distortion can be introduced
due to this cause. The elec-
tron tube containing the five
electrodes is called a pentode.
It will produce large power outputs with relatively small signal
voltages applied to the grid.

CONTROL GRID——» SCREEN
GRID

.'

Bi RO Pe
Se) Ser Se 2

A.
Se dae

ALA.
..
2 Ne ~

90 VOLTS

jaja}

20 VOLTS
|e

FIGURE 7.—Secondary emission in a tetrode.

CONTROL GRID ieee s

RECTIFIERS

Recently the term mutator
has been suggested to cover
those forms of electronic devices
which are designed for rectify-
ing alternating current for power
purposes. The term mutator
_ thus includes grid-controlled
hot-cathode rectifiers, mer-
cury-are rectifiers, and igniter-
type mercury-arc rectifiers or
ignitrons.

If the vacuum-type triode
previously discussed be changed
by the addition of gas under
low pressure and if the grid be
changed so that it completely
surrounds the cathode, then a tube possessing some different and.
desirable properties is obtained. If this tube be connected in the
circuit of figure 9, practically no current will flow from the cathode
to the anode when the grid is free or not connected to any source of

RR RAR RRA,

SCREEN
GRID

FIGURE 8.—Prevention of secondary emission by fifth
electrode in a pentode.
ELECTRON THEORY—KLOEFFLER 253

potential. This action is due to the fact that electrons emitted by
the cathode land on the grid and make the grid negative. This
negative grid repels nearly all electrons and does not permit many
to pass through the meshes of the grid to the plate. If the grid is kept
negative enough, the electrons cannot attain sufficient velocity to
cause ionization and the tube is nonconducting between cathode and
anode. As the grid is made less negative a point is reached where
the electron velocity is great enough to cause ionization. Positive
ions will then form a sheath around the grid and neutralize its effect
and a large current flows to the anode. This current is limited only
by the impedance of the anode circuit. Once started, the cathode-
anode current cannot be stopped by any change of potential on the
grid. If the grid circuit is opened, the positive ions will neutralize
any electrons which land on the grid, and if the grid be made more
negative, it will attract positive ions to its meshes and the resulting
positive ion sheath will again neutralize the negative grid so that the
cathode-anode current stream will be
unaffected. The only way the anode
current can be stopped when direct cur-
rent is applied to the plate is to open
the anode circuit.

The hot-cathode grid-controlled gas-
eous-conductor tube or thyratron finds
its usefulness when an alternating poten-
tial is applied to its anode circuit. Again,
the tube can be started by placing a s
positive potential on the grid and the tube
will function as a half-wave rectifier as “1
long as the grid remains positive. If the Ficure 9—Diagram ofa grid-controlled
positive potential be removed from the CSET HE
grid, the anode current will go to zero at the next negative wave of
potential. Thus the starting and stopping of the rectification process
can be controlled simply and perfectly (without arcing) by the appli-
cation of a continuous potential to the grid. The grid may also be
excited by a low alternating potential from the same source as the
anode supply. If the grid and anode potential are in step, complete
single-wave rectification will occur. If the grid potential be made to
lag the anode potential, then rectification will start after the beginning
of the cycle and the time and magnitude of the rectified current can
be controlled. Thus a shift of phase of the grid voltage through 180°
will vary the rectified current from zero to a maximum of half-wave
rectification. The thyratron gives fine control of rectified current
and finds a wide application in theater-stage lighting, flood-lighting,
motor speed control, and elsewhere.

254 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938

Mercury-arc rectifiers have been used for rectification for many
years. They operate upon the principle of a hot spot upon a mercury-
pool cathode maintained by positive-ion bombardment. The arc is
started by means of an auxiliary electrode. During recent years
mercury-are rectifiers have been built in large capacities for supplying
direct current for electric railway operation. These rectifiers have
been built in large steel tanks and use 3, 6, or 12 phases with a corres-
ponding number of electrodes for anodes. Yor starting the main arc
an auxiliary or exciting electrode must be in operation all of the time.
The ionization produced by this auxiliary electrode produces condi-
tions favorable for an arc-back or a reversal of the rectified current.
Hence the anodes must be very carefully shielded and the arc path
must be relatively long.

Quite recently a new method for starting the mercury arc in the
rectifier has been invented by Slepian and Ludwig. The device using
this new principle is called the ignitron. Theignitron is a mercury-
arc rectifier having a third electrode or ignitor which consists of a rod
of suitable refractory material which projects through the side of the
tube and has a point dipping into the mercury pool. The ignitor
electrode serves to fire the arc at will just as the grid of the thyratron
may start the gaseous conduction. If the ignitor electrode be made
positive with respect to the cathode pool and a suitable critical current
be permitted for a few microseconds, a tiny spark occurs between the
ignitor and mercury. If the anode potential is positive and of suitable
value, this tiny spark expands into an are which is transferred to the
anode through the ionization process previously considered. The arc
forms a very low resistance path for the passage of current.

The ignitor principle may be used for a single current surge of half-
wave rectification or it may be used for several waves, or for continuous
operation. The ignition process must be repeated each time the
alternating anode potential becomes positive. The ignitor electrode
may be fired from the same A. C. source of potential as the anode. Also
the phase relation of the ignitor voltage to anode voltage may be
varied to give only partial or even zero time of rectification. Thus
the ignitron has the same control characteristics as the thyratron.
The ignitron is inherently suited for larger current values of rectified
current than the thyratron. The advantages of the ignitron over
the mercury-pool rectifier are long life of mercury-pool type of cathode,
and low voltage drop in arc since cathode and anode may be very
close together. The latter advantage results because no arc-back can
occur on reverse cycle since firing occurs only at desired time (and
not continuously due to auxiliary electrode). The applications of the
ignitron include simple continuous rectification, rectification with
control, motor speed control, welding, and circuit breaking with
quicker response than mechanical devices.
ELECTRON THEORY—KLOEFFLER 255

PHOTOELECTRIC CELLS

It was suggested earlier that electrons may be ejected from some
solids by the impingement of light rays. It appears that the high-
frequency electromagnetic wave (visible or invisible) has the power
of imparting energy to the electrons in the outer orbits of atoms of
certain photosensitive materials so that these electrons are released
or torn from the atom and fly out into space. This phenomenon
forms the basis of action of the photoelectric cell or the ‘electric eye”
which is so widely used in many control applications. The more
common light-sensitive materials are sodium, potassium, barium,
strontium, and some of their compounds. The photoelectric cell
usually consists of an evacuated tube containing a large area of light-
sensitive material and a small anode or wire near the center. The
cell is connected into a circuit so that a positive potential is applied to
the anode. Whenever light falls on the light-sensitive cathode,
electrons are emitted and attracted to the anode. The actual current
flowing in the cathode-anode circuit is very small and amounts to only
a few microamperes at the best. This small current produces a small
voltage drop across a resistance. This potential is amplified by means
of other electron tubes to produce a signal for performing the purpose
desired. The number of electrons emitted from a light-sensitive
surface is directly proportional to the intensity of light falling upon
that surface. Thus a variation of light intensity may be transformed
into an electric signal to perform a desired purpose. This principle
is used in the sound production for the talking picture where a sound
track on the film varies the light intensity falling on a photoelectric
cell. The photoelectric cell may also be used for picture transmission,
for television, and for all kinds of signal applications.

Photoelectric cells may have a high vacuum or may contain gas
under low pressure. The emission of electrons by the impingement
of light rays is the same in both types. The resulting current to the
anode in the vacuum type is equal to the electron emission, but in the
gaseous type the current is amplified several times (in practice not
exceeding 10 times) by the addition of current from the gas ions which
are formed during the transit of electrons from the cathode to the
anode.
Die ep
iM
ees £2 os

re,

fine sentaplayy big ots, cena foci
seme &: , Ee POS efi
i i h TEM, og 109K Latetes 7 ARO:

f ie ut) hilar af Sahin

a alin

GEOLOGY IN NATIONAL AND EVERYDAY LIFE!

By Grorce R. MANSFIELD
U. S. Geological Survey

INTRODUCTION

To a surprisingly large number of people the word “geology”’ sug-
gests nothing definite or practical, nothing associated with national or
everyday life. Nevertheless, geology is concerned with the materials
man uses in building his houses and great industrial plants. It deals
with the metals of which his car is composed and with the fuels with
which he drives his car or heats his house. It has to do with the sea-
soning and preservation of his food, with the water he drinks, and with
the scenery which greets his eyes every morning. It considers the
destructive hazards that form part of his environment in many parts
of the world, such as floods, earthquakes, and volcanic activity, and is
concerned as well with the gentler moods of nature that calm his spirit
and inspire his imagination.

Minerals enter into all phases of our modern civilization. Geology
deals with the occurrence and distribution of minerals and with the
laws and forces that tend to create or destroy them. Industry must
know where suitable supplies of minerals for its needs may be obtained
and what conditions are imposed by nature on their successful recovery
and exploitation. Federal, State, and local governments must know
whether mineral supplies, within their respective jurisdictions, are of
suitable quality or adequate to meet the needs of their citizens. They
must have information on the geologic conditions affecting the sites
of constructional works, such as dams, reservoirs, bridges, and the
foundations of public buildings; on the problems of water supply and
sanitation; and on the wise use and conservation of their mineral re-
sources. The individual must earn his living and gain his inspiration
amid surroundings from which geology constantly speaks to him.
It seems pertinent, therefore, to consider in some detail the relation
between geology and our national and everyday life.

1 Address of the retiring vice president and chairman of the section on geology, American Association for

the Advancement of Science, Indianapolis, December 31, 1937. Published by permission of the Director,
U. S. Geological Survey. Reprinted by permission from Science, vol. 87, No. 2247, January 21, 1938.

257
258 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938
RAMIFICATIONS OF GEOLOGY

Geology is concerned with all agencies and phenomena that have
affected the earth in the past or are affecting it now. Some agencies,
such as the sun’s energy, act upon the earth entirely from without.
Others act chiefly at the earth’s surface. Among them are streams,
glaciers, winds, and waves. Still others, such as volcanism, earth-
quakes, and mountain-building agencies, act chiefly within the body
of the earth, though each of these may have strongly developed sur-
face manifestations. Gravity acts from without the earth as an
astronomical agency, but is also associated with every activity at the
earth’s surface and within its mass.

The geologist reads and interprets the geologic record in the rocks.
But this involves consideration of the agencies above mentioned and
through them the use of facts and techniques of other sciences, princi-
pally chemistry, physics, biology, and astronomy. A border zone lies
between geology and each of these sciences so that whether an in-
vestigation is geological may depend on its viewpoint or emphasis
rather than on the facts or techniques employed.

The borderline sciences, geochemistry and geophysics, have devel-
oped to consider problems that fall between the adjacent fields in-
dicated by the names.?

Mineralogy may be cited as an example of the dependence of geol-
ogy on other sciences. Mineralogy has long been dependent on chem-
istry and optical physics for accurate determinations of mineral species.
More recently it has made use of the X-ray. Mineralogy applied
to rock study has developed into petrology; similarly applied to the
study of useful minerals it has developed into economic geology.
Both geochemistry and geophysics are extensively utilized in economic
geology, and geophysics has now become an important aid to the
petroleum geologist in his search for oil and gas. However, the view-
point of geclogy, the interpretation of the earth’s history, is its own,
and geology’s dependence on other sciences is probably no greater
than their dependence on it.

Geology ramifies also into business, national, and private life.

GEOLOGY AND THE MINERAL INDUSTRIES

The mineral industries include, generally, those dependent on the
discovery and mining of mineral substances and their manufacture
into useful products. They give employment to many thousands of
our citizens. According to the Minerals Yearbook, 1937, published
by the Bureau of Mines, the mining industry by itself ranks last
among the four primary industries in the United States with respect
to capital invested, value of products, or number of workers employed.

3 For a broader interpretation of geophysics, see Hubbert, M. K., The place of geophysics in a depart-
ment of geology, Amer. Inst. Min. and Met. Eng., Tech. Publ. 945, February meeting, 1938.
GEOLOGY IN EVERYDAY LIFE—MANSFIELD 259

Actually, however, these industries are interdependent. Manufactur-
ing needs minerals both for its machines and for the power to operate
them. The products of mines contribute nearly two-thirds of the
revenue freight handled by the railroads and about one-fourth of the
ocean-borne traffic. Agriculture requires minerals for fertilizers and
farm implements, and minerals serve to link farms and markets.
Highways, railroads, trucks, and trains are all of mineral origin.

To those who actually mine coal, iron ore, and other minerals, the
relation of geology to their everyday lives can hardly fail to be evident.
The continuity of a vein, the nature of the ground, whether hard or
soft, broken or stable, are factors which control the nature and speed
of each day’s work and the daily risk of personal safety. Similarly,
the oil or water driller must keep close watch of the nature and attitude
of the rocks through which he is drilling his well. Those who fabricate
the product of the mines and wells are further removed from the direct
effects of geology, but they are no less dependent on it, because their
employment is contingent on the constant supply of a uniform material
suitable for the manufacture of their special product.

Water is as truly mineral as petroleum or other hydrocarbons, and
the question of adequate water supply is closely linked with mineral
industries. Water is so essential to all phases of human life that no
one can escape the consequences of failure, interruption, or contamina-
tion of his regular supply. An adequate supply of water is contingent
on numerous factors, many of which are geological.

The economic geologist is employed to aid in the discovery of mineral
resources, to work out their relations in the ground, and to obtain
quantitative data on which to base estimates of reserves. He must
consider grade and accessibility, as these factors ultimately determine
whether a given mineral deposit can be exploited at current price
ranges. The use of sound geological investigation and advice is essen-
tial if waste and suffering are to be avoided by the public when
attempts are made to work an unprofitable mining property, to drill
for oil in unfavorable places, or to unload questionable mining or
drilling enterprises on the market.

Metals.—The geologist engaged in studying metallic minerals must
devote a large share of his time in the field to the available under-
ground workings in such mines as are accessible to him, besides
acquainting himself with the surface geology of as much of the region
as the limits of his time and funds will permit. He thus gains a
better three-dimensional picture of the whole geologic set-up than
would be possible from a study of surface relations alone. His maps,
sections, and laboratory studies serve to control actual mining opera-
tions and guide explorations for further supplies of ore. The increas-
ing use of geologists on the staffs of mining companies bears witness to

1147283918
260 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938

the increasing need of the mining industry for geologic advice and
to the growing recognition of that need.

Nonmetals.—In the field of nonmetallic mineral deposits the recog-
nition of the need of geologic advice has grown more slowly and in
fact can hardly yet be said to be widespread. Nonmetallic mineral
resources are in general so abundant, lie so near the surface, and are
so cheap, relatively speaking, that producers have given little thought
to their geologic aspects. However, it not infrequently happens that a
producer, say, of sand and gravel, locates his plant near a talus pile,
which he mistakes for a bedded deposit of suitable thickness and
quality. When further work discloses that the actual deposit from
which the talus is derived is merely a thin cap at a higher elevation, he
is faced with the problem of relocating his plant, changing its layout,
or abandoning it altogether.

Some industries in the nonmetallic field utilize underground methods
of mining. For example, mica, feldspar, talc, magnesite, gypsum,
fluorite, and some phosphates are among the minerals so mined.
More recently underground methods have been successfully applied
to the mining of limestone, slate, sandstone, and even granite at
different places. Special processes for recovering salt and sulphur by
underground solution or melting and pumping have been devised
which differ from ordinary mining methods, but the successful loca-
tion and development of such an enterprise, as in the other instances,
depends fundamentally on knowledge of the geology of the area in
which lies the deposit to be mined, or otherwise recovered.

Again supplies of construction materials for building and other
activities in the vicinity of large cities or large engineering projects
tend to become depleted fairly rapidly and search for such materials
has to be extended farther and farther from these centers. Here
a good geologic map is of the greatest service whether or not it was
originally prepared to serve economic needs. For regional planning,
where constructional activities are contemplated, the areal geologic
map of the United States has been found a valuable guide for more
detailed investigations. Similarly, State geologic maps and geologic
maps of individual areas, such as those provided in the folios of the
Geological Survey, have repeatedly proved their worth in locating
supplies of necessary construction materials. For example, the State
geologic map of Alabama shows the distribution in the northern part
of the State of extensive deposits of gravel in areas mapped as Tus-
caloosa formation and large areas of valuable limestone for building
in the Bangor limestone. Special economic maps, such as that of the
Tennessee Valley, prepared by the Geological Survey, indicate the
distribution of a wide variety of mineral deposits. The use of such
information may often result in large savings both in time and money,
GEOLOGY IN EVERYDAY LIFE—MANSFIELD 261

not only by pointing out more favorable areas but also by preventing
search in unfavorable areas.

Fuels—coal.—Geologists in Federal and State surveys, as well as
those in private employ, have labored many years to make known the
nature and extent of the nation’s coal resources. We now know in
greater or less detail where the deposits of coal of different ranks, from
lignite to anthracite, lie, how extensive they are, how rich in heating
value, and which beds among them are best adapted for such purposes
as coking and steam production. Some years ago the Geological
Survey published a map showing the nature and distribution of the
coal fields of the United States, which has proved a very useful sum-
mary. Although the number of publications emanating from these
sources is large, the work is far from complete because of the wide
distribution of the deposits and the refinements of study needed in
getting desired information.

Petroleum and natural gas.—In recent years the search for new
supplies of petroleum and natural gas has become increasingly the
task of the geologist and the geophysicist. In this task paleontology
has acquired greater economic interest and importance than in any
other branch of the mineral industry. Fifty years or so ago, who
would have thought that a matter of prime importance to a great
industry would be the stratigraphic position and depth below the sur-
face of certain beds of rock whose chief characteristic is their content
of tiny fossils? Yet now in certain oil-bearing regions such beds serve
to outline, or help outline, the shape, size, and position of oil and gas
pools. Our knowledge of subsurface geology, on which the search
for oil now largely depends, has been built up by the geologist, patiently
gathering and comparing data from well cuttings and cores, identifying
fossils—including many of microscopic size—determining mineral
particles and preparing the maps and sections on which the collected
data are assembled and summarized.

The geophysical prospecting now in wide use in the search for oil
and gas derives much of its usefulness from the great body of data
assembled and integrated by geologists. The effectiveness of geo-
physical combined with geologic methods has been well shown in
many parts of the United States, especially in Texas and Louisiana
near the Gulf of Mexico, where many oil fields and salt domes have
been thus located, in California, where oil pools are being tapped at
great depths, and more recently in the central Illinois basin. The
geologist is indispensable to the oil industry. The literature on geo-
physical prospecting is increasing at a rapid rate. A quarterly
Geological Survey bulletin of about 300 abstracts is now required
merely to outline these publications.

The contributions of the petroleum geologists to geologic literature
and philosophy have greatly stimulated interest in the deeper rocks and
262 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938

structures of the earth’s crust, in problems of sedimentation, ancient
shorelines, and continental history. In this connection, David White’s
carbon ratio theory deserves particular mention. The essence of it is
that organic substances in sedimentary rocks share in the ordinary
metamorphic changes induced by compaction and folding of the
deposits. Oils and coals of different ranks are produced and modified
by these changes at relatively low temperatures and by a sort of
cracking process, whereby the more volatile hydrocarbons are liberated
while the fixed carbon remains, thus increasing the ratio of the ‘‘fixed”’
to the volatile carbon. As these metamorphic effects become more
intense, the cracking process reaches a ‘‘dead line”? beyond which no
oil or gas pools may be expected. This theory explains many facts
regarding the mode of occurrence of petroleum and some of the differ-
ences in its character from place to place. By indicating areas where
the search for oil would be unprofitable, it has saved producers
millions of dollars.

The relationship of geology to the life and interests of a community
is nowhere more definitely recognized and more strongly appreciated
than among the people living in the oil-producing parts of the country.
Even a brief sojourn in such a community suffices to show that the
common man has a keen understanding of such geologic terms as
anticline, structure, dip, and strike, and of the part these features
may play in finding oil.

GEOLOGY IN THE CONSTRUCTIONAL INDUSTRIES

In recent years the imagination of the public has been stirred by
plans involving engineering construction projects on an unprecedented
scale. Some of these projects are already in progress and popular
attention has been directed to such centers as Norris, Tenn.; Gunters-
ville, Ala.; Boulder Dam, Ariz.-Nev.; Bonneville Dam, Oreg.-Wash.;
Grand Coulee Dam, Wash., and Fort Peck, Mont., where construc-
tion of large river-control projects is already well advanced.

The geologic conditions at each of these sites presented problems
or even hazards that had to be solved and met by special engineering
devices before success for the constructional end of the project could
be assured. At one site, for example, the difficulties centered in the
relative porosity and cavernous character of the limestones on which
the dam was to be seated. At another, ground movement, through
landslides, introduced serious hazards. At still another, the occur-
rence of large supplies of hot water denoting disturbed structural
conditions at the proposed dam site had to be taken into account.
The engineers in charge, mindful of previous disasters where work of
this sort had been done without sufficient regard to attending geo-
logic conditions, called upon geologists for help. As the sites selected
GEOLOGY IN EVERYDAY LIFE—MANSFIELD 263

have special advantages not easily duplicated, it remained for the
geologist and the engineer jointly to work out methods for overcoming
these difficulties. | This seems in large measure to have been accom-
plished, and the public has much reason to hope that the structures
will prove stable when completed.

Some years ago the Government undertook the project of building
a large reservoir in a western valley for the purpose of irrigation
storage. ‘The site had been selected after a careful investigation by a
well-known consulting engineer, who reported that it had several
advantages over competing sites and that the construction involved
no special problems. When drilling began for the selection of a dam
site, trouble arose from drilling water, which disappeared almost as
fast as it could be poured into the drill holes. Geological investiga-
tion showed that the ground-water table in the vicinity of the proposed
dam site was nearly 100 feet below the surface. The rocks on which
the dam was to be seated were porous and fractured lavas, resting on
thick but poorly consolidated and porous volcanic ash. The pro-
posed dam would surely allow water to flow away beneath and around
the dam without providing the desired storage. The site was aban-
doned, and the resulting saving to the Government in avoiding the
unwise proposed construction was approximately $2,000,000.

Although the geologist is indispensable in helping to solve problems
encountered in great constructional projects, he is even more necessary
when it comes to the consideration of the sources of supply and the
nature of the mineral substances that enter into any modern con-
structional project, great or small. At the time the Boulder Dam
was under construction, the technical journals and locally the daily
newspapers carried accounts of the enormous quantities of sand and
gravel, cement, steel, etc., that were needed and used, and of special
types of equipment designed to handle these materials. Similarly,
for the other projects, much information of this sort is available.

Some years ago E. F. Burchard and G. F. Loughlin compiled con-
struction data, not published, for the Interior Department, North
Building, in Washington, D. C. This is a modern office building,
completed for occupation in 1917. It occupies an entire city square.
According to Burchard and Loughlin’s figures, about 8,000 tons of
metals, more than two-thirds of it structural steel, was utilized.
Interesting items in this connection are 20 tons of bronze in locks and
49 miles of wire used in signalling and lighting but not for telephones.
The nonmetallic minerals used total about 82,500 tons. Of this
amount more than a third consisted of sand, gravel and crushed stone;
clay products, largely hollow tile and building brick, made up another
third. Then came Indiana limestone, plaster and cement and a num-
ber of others. These materials came from 28 States and 3 foreign
countries.
264 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938

Oliver Bowles, in the magazine, Stone, June 1932, gives an account
of the stones used in the Department of Commerce Building in Wash-
ington. This building covers a ground area of approximately 8 acres
and is one of the largest office buildings in the world. Indiana lime-
stone was the stone most largely used. Of this about 700,000 cubic
feet, or 1,100 carloads, was required. Granite from Stony Creek,
Conn., amounted to 75,000 cubic feet. Other interesting items about
this building include 7% miles of corridor floored with terrazzo chips
patterned with small tile; 6 miles of wall base along the corridors
covered with polished black Isle La Motte, Vt., marble, and more
than 16 miles of baseboard manufactured from slate obtained in the
Pen Argyl district of Pennsylvania. The stones used in this building
came from ten States and one foreign country.

The figures cited show something of the nature, diversity, and
amount of the mineral substances that enter into the construction of
large modern buildings. When one considers how many new build-
ings, both large and small, are being constructed throughout the
country each year, and realizes that to obtain an idea of the total
quantity of minerals used in their construction the figures given
above must be multiplied enormously, he can better understand the
meaning of the statistical summaries of mineral production published
each year, formerly by the Geological Survey and now by the Bureau
of Mines. These figures, of course, include not only the costs of
minerals entering into building construction, usually f. 0. b. mine or
quarry, but the entire range of industrial and commercial activity in
which minerals are used. For 1936, the latest year for which figures
have been assembled, the Bureau of Mines shows a grand total of
$4,582,000,000 for the value of the output of mineral products in the
United States. The greatest contributor was mineral fuels
($2,706,300,000) followed by metallic products ($1,064,000,000).
nonmetallic products ($789,700,000) and “‘unspecified’”’ ($22,000,000).

It has been emphasized by geologists and economists, but will bear
repetition, that the mineral resources of the country are diminishing
assets. When once used they can only in relatively small measure
be reclaimed and used again. Periodic mineral inventories, therefore,
are essential to provide the best picture of our outlook regarding the
future supplies and utilization of minerals, and these inventories are
founded on geologic information.

GEOLOGY IN PUBLIC RELATIONS

Governments—Federal, State, or local—have many problems that
involve some relationship with minerals, in the solution of which the
geologist may and often does play some important part. The Federal
Government and some of the States, for example, Texas, own large
GEOLOGY IN EVERYDAY LIFE—MANSFIELD 265

tracts of public land, the administration or disposal of which involves
a knowledge of the mineral resources that they contain. Many cities
and towns own land from which stone may be quarried, or sand or
gravel be removed.

Geological Survey—The Federal Government, the largest land-
holder, early recognized the need of information regarding its public
lands. Thus arose the succession of surveys, which finally led to the
establishment in 1879 of the Geological Survey, whose director was
charged with ‘‘the direction of the Geological Survey and the classifica-
tion of the public lands and examination of the geological structure,
mineral resources, and products of the national domain.” Though
many of its activities relate specifically to the public lands, the scope
of the organization is broader, and it may do work for public purposes
in any of the States, territories or insular possessions.

Its work has greatly expanded since the early days. The names of
its six branches indicate the general scope of its present activities:

Geologie branch (includes wide variety of geologic studies and related chemical
and physical work).

Topographic branch (topographic mapping, base maps, etc.).

Water resources branch (surface and ground water divisions).

Conservation branch (land classification, mineral leasing, power sites, etc.).

Alaska branch (geology, topography and mineral resources).

Administrative branch (includes library).

Besides geologists these branches employ many engineers, chemists,
and physicists, a clerical staff and laborers. The continuous service
of one or more legal advisers is also required. Nevertheless, the
central purpose about which the entire organization revolves is the
extension of geologic knowledge and the application of this knowledge
to public problems involving the mineral wealth of the country,
especially the public lands, and laws and regulations relating thereto.

Other Governmental agencies ——Other Government agencies besides
the Geological Survey have need for geologists and geologic advice.
Some of them call upon the Survey to do specific pieces of work or
carry out special investigations. Thus the Survey has examined
many tracts of land for the Forest Service in pursuance of legal
obligations placed upon that organization to obtain such examinations
prior to the purchase of additional lands for forest reserves. The
Indian Service has requested mineral examinations of certain Indian
lands prior to opening for settlement or disposal, and that organization
and the Bureau of Reclamation have asked for dam site investigations.
This last organization and some other bureaus originated in the
Geological Survey. The Navy Department has asked for geologic
aid in selection of sites for special structures and of tracts of land for
petroleum reserves. The National Park Service has asked for geologic
information for administrative purposes and to further the educational
266 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938

and recreational use of the parks. The Tennessee Valley Authority
has asked assistance in the valuation of mineral-bearing lands about
to be flooded. The Reconstruction Finance Corporation and the
Securities and Exchange Commission have called upon the Survey
for advice in their respective fields as to applications for loans of
public funds and as to issuing permits to sell securities based on under-
lying mineral properties.

On the other hand, a number of Federal organizations, recognizing
the need of geologic information and advice, have attached geologists
to their staffs or have built up separate geologic staffs in order to
obtain more direct control of such work for their special purposes.
Among these are the Army Engineer Corps, the Reclamation Service,
National Park Service, the Soil Conservation Service, and the Tennessee
Valley Authority. The increasing tendency of such organizations to
seek geologic advice indicates a growing appreciation of the varied
services geology may render.

State geological surveys—Before the Federal Government took
cognizance of geology as an aid to the better understanding and
solution of its problems affecting mineral lands and resources, some
of the States had established geological surveys and published reports.
The two Carolinas, North Carolina in 1823, and South Carolina in
1824, were the first to take steps in this direction, followed by Massa-
chusetts in 1830. From that time on more and more States have
taken up geologic investigations. Most of the early surveys were
discontinued, but many were revived, some of them several times.
The New York Survey, however, has been broadly continuous in its
activity and name since its inception in 1836. Now the only States
that appear to make no specific provision for geologic work within
their boundaries are Delaware and Massachusetts.* The State sur-
veys, though held within State lines and thus restricted in their fields
of operation, have given an excellent account of themselves and have
rendered most valuable service to their people and to the country as a
whole, as well as to geological science.

Services rendered by official surveys——Besides the applications of
geology in the fields of engineering, construction, and search for sup-
plies of different minerals, which to a greater or less extent are regular
duties of official surveys, its application in land classification, water-
supply problems, sanitation, legal questions, and miscellaneous in-
formation service deserves attention.

Land classification was one of the duties imposed on the Geological
Survey by its organic act, but little systematic geologic work was done
in this connection until the rise of the conservation movement in the
first decade of this century. Attention then was focused on such

3 Massachusetts, through its Department of Public Works, in 1938 has undertaken a comprehensive,
detailed study of its geology and mineral resources, in cooperation with the Federal Geological Survey.
GEOLOGY IN EVERYDAY LIFE—-MANSFIELD 267

mineral resources as coal, oil, natural gas, phosphate, and salines on
public lands, and the interest of the Nation as a whole in their proper
conservation and use was aroused. Congress passed legislation re-
serving mineral rights to the Government, setting up reserves for
special purposes, and providing for the lease and exploitation of
public mineral lands. A necessary corollary was the acquirement
of more precise information regarding such lands. The Geological
Survey thus began and has since continued systematic surveys to
show accurately the distribution of these minerals with respect to the
established subdivisions of the public land and to measure and sample
the deposits for purposes of computing reserves. The acreage with-
drawn from or restored to entry and the estimates of reserves have
been modified from time to time as new information has become
available. They have formed the basis of national planning and
legislation. Besides this, land classification data are extensively used
by the General Land Office in administering public lands.

Water supplies.—In the better-watered parts of the United States
and other countries, questions of water supply have not, on the whole,
seemed serious until recent years. The situation is different in more
arid regions where water is the crux of the question, whether a given
area can be used agriculturally or industrially, or perhaps at all.
With the rapid expansion of cities in the more thickly settled areas
and the increased demands for water in some western States, questions
of water supply have assumed national importance. Investigations
and measurements must be made both of the available surface water
and of water in the ground. These are long-continuing projects
because rainfall, which controls both the surface and the ground sup-
ply, fluctuates so that investigations, covering only short periods,
are likely to be deceptive and undependable.

The problems of proper development and utilization of water involve
the cooperation of the engineer, the geologist, and the chemist. The
engineer is concerned with its production or accumulation, its trans-
portation and handling as a commodity; the geologist with the
character (thickness, porosity, etc.) and position of the water-bearing
beds, their recharge from available rainfall and their possible con-
tamination by salt water or other undesirable substances. With the
engineer, he is concerned with the character and stability of rocks
affected by tunnels, aqueducts, dams, and other structures. The
chemist determines the quality of water as regards mineral and organic
content. Mineral water, through clogging or staining, may be injuri-
ous for industrial use. Mineral substances in solution may also affect
health. For example, fluorine detected in the waters of some of the
southwestern States has proved injurious to the enamel of human
teeth. Organic matter is deleterious to health,
268 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938

Sanitation.—Closely related to the question of water supply is that
of sanitation and the disposal of sewage and other wastes. If proper
regard is not paid to geologic conditions, water supplies otherwise
suitable may become contaminated. In some limestone regions where
underground channels have been enlarged by solution, water may pass
quickly from sources of contamination to places of use without being
filtered or purified as they might be by passing through sequences of
rocks of normal porosity. Thus the geologist’s advice may be valuable
to the sanitary engineer.

Legal questions—Matters in litigation not infrequently hinge on
geologic data. The mining industry has been afflicted by litigation
in connection with the so-called ‘apex’ law. Many distinguished
geologists have participated in these affairs. Frequently the available
data have been so incomplete as to allow many differences of opinion
among the experts. Boundary disputes between States or individuals,
where the position of a stream is involved, have frequently hinged on
geologic evidence, as in the case of the Texas-Oklahoma boundary
along the Red River some years ago.

Informational and miscellaneous services—All the State geological
surveys, as well as the Federal Geological Survey, are constantly called
upon for a wide variety of information. Letters received at the
Geological Survey from people in all walks of life run up into the
thousands annually. Many mineral specimens are identified for the
public. Work of this kind, including personal interviews, has to be
considered a regular function of the geologist in public service. Some-
times the relation of geology to the question raised may at first seem
remote, but the answer may reveal an intimate connection. For
example, a representative of the United States Fish Commission called
at my office one day. He was trying to restock with fish some of the
streams in West Virginia. Though he was generally successful, there
was one area where the young fish, when released, kept dying and he
was not able to obtain satisfactory results. By referring to the county
geologic map, a product of the State survey, it was found that the
streams that caused the trouble all rose in or crossed a belt of pyrite-
bearing shales, and it seemed probable that the unfavorable effects
on the young fish were produced by sulphuric acid released by the
decomposition and leaching of the pyrite in these shales, and its con-
tinual supply to the streams through springs or mine waters in minute
quantities but sufficient to kill the fish.

Another West Virginia problem was brought to my office by an
engineer from a telephone company that was having trouble in main-
taining its lines. 'The company, it appeared, had laid these out with
regard only to directions of route and mileage. It had not considered
the nature of the ground in which its poles must be set. As a conse-
quence disturbance of poles, disarrangement of line, and breakage of
GEOLOGY IN EVERYDAY LIFE—MANSFIELD 269

wires were frequent occurrences because of land slips. Recourse to
the State geologic map, another product of the State survey, with
some further explanations, demonstrated to the engineer the usefulness
of such a map in showing the position of the stable rocks that could be
safely utilized and of the unstable formations that should be avoided.

GEOLOGY IN DOMESTIC RELATIONS

In the glaciated parts of the country, especially in New England, the
land of many farms is stony. In the process of cultivation large num-
bers of stones, ranging in size from a few inches to as much as a foot
in diameter, have been patiently gathered by the farmer and assembled
in piles here and there in the fields or built into stone walls. Such
walls are a characteristic sight along many New England roads. Suc-
cessive winter frosts gradually lift other stones in the upper soil within
reach of the plow and thus provide the farmer with additional crops
of boulders.

Contrasting geologic conditions affecting the lives of whole com-
munities have been called te public attention in the last year or two
by the so-called ‘dust bowl” in the western States and by flooded areas
of the Ohio, Mississippi, and other rivers. In the dust bowl area cul-
tivation, deficient rainfall and high winds combined to loosen soil and
transport it in large quantities to other sites near or far. The farms
from which the soil was taken were depleted or ruined, whereas those
that received it were improved, if not choked by too much sand or
other deleterious material. On the other hand, the flooded areas
suffered from the effects of too much rain and from the consequent
increase in the transporting power of the rivers. One man’s loss was
perhaps another’s gain in the redistribution of soil that took place
during the flood.

An understanding of the effects of heavy rains and run-off on
plowed ground is essential to a farmer if he is to conserve his fields and
maintain the productivity of his farm. This is especially true if his
fields slope more than a few degrees. The system of contour plowing
now being introduced in many parts of the country, especially in the
South, is doing much to prevent soil erosion and the waste of arable
land.

My efforts to make a garden in Washington during the World War
were directly affected by the geology of my back yard. The upper
few inches of soil were derived from gravels of the Columbia group of
Pleistocene age and were very stony, the stones ranging from bird’s
egg to football size. They lay on an old deeply weathered and rotted
schist of pre-Cambrian age, the contact being beautifully exposed in
a cut bank in the alley behind my house. Every square foot of that
garden had to be opened by pick and shovel methods. Many wheel-
270 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938

barrow loads of pebbles were taken out and fresh dirt that had been
dumped on the hillside behind wheeled in. The rotted schist seemed
to have the consistency of lead. Only by persistent effort was the soil
lightened and made ready for cultivation.

The practice of insulating houses and office buildings has given rise
to a relatively new industry. Some of the more widely used insulating
materials are of mineral origin, and locating suitable supplies of them
requires geologic investigation.

The question of keeping a cellar dry during a wet season, especially
where frost and melting snow are involved, is dependent on recognition
of the geologic conditions in the immediately underlying or surround-
ing ground. A ledge protruding into the cellar, or a water-bearing
layer in the surrounding ground, if not properly sealed off, may lead
water into the house and flood the cellar.

The location of cities, villages, individual dwellings, and farms
without regard to existing geologic conditions, or perhaps in spite of
them, has led to many disasters on both a small and large scale. This
involves the whole question of disasters owing to earthquakes, floods,
hurricanes, volcanoes, and other geologic agencies. Sometimes the
advantages offered by such locations are great and the manifestations
of adverse geologic conditions infrequent. Nevertheless, sooner or
later they appear and those caught unprepared suffer. Special forms
of insurance against disaster are available in some parts of the country.
If the cost of protective measures is great, most people prefer to take
their chances, but if under these conditions care is taken to select favor-
able ground and attention is given to protective types of building con-
struction, the danger of disaster in individual cases, at least, may be
largely obviated. However, anyone who elects to live in such places,
should realize that potentially disaster-producing agencies are part of
his natural environment and if he fails to take these into account he
does so at his peril.

GEOLOGY IN EDUCATION

The field of education is broad, embracing all those facts, influences,
and processes by which the student is made aware of the experience of
the past and is prepared to go forward on his own initiative in the busi-
ness of life and in extending the bounds of knowledge. Naturally
many subjects enter into any well-rounded educational program.
Some of them, notably geology, quicken observation, broaden under-
standing, stimulate the love of beauty, and cultivate the mind.

One of the greatest contributions of geology to education is the
concept of the length of geologic time. This and the astronomical
concept of distance in space are among the greatest contributions of
science to human knowledge. They serve to put in perspective all
happenings on the earth and throughout the universe. The later
GEOLOGY IN EVERYDAY LIFE—MANSFIELD yy Al

methods of estimating geologic time, though permitting more exact
statement of the lengths of individual periods or eras, emphasize the
great age of the earth in contrast with the brevity of recorded history.
Thus the age of the earth and the geologic record of the development
of life upon it furnish a background for religion, philosophy, and
social science.

Geography, a subject included in practically every educational
program, rests on geology. The progress of life through the ages as
shown by the geologic record has depended largely upon geologic
conditions. Faunas have waxed and waned with the advance and
retreat of seas over continents. Floras and vertebrates have re-
sponded similarly to the movements of the great ice sheets. The
present distribution of plants and animals shows many peculiarities
owing to these agencies and to isolation of certain inhabited areas
from other corresponding areas by submergence or other geologic
causes. The fauna and flora of Australia are well-known examples.
The natural conditions that have favored the location of manufac-
turing or maritime cities, trade routes, and transportation lines are
generally traceable to geologic causes.

History plays a great part in education. Many historical events
from earliest times have had a geologic background. ‘Tribes and
nations have developed their own customs and habits according to
whether they lived in mountain glens or broad alluviated country; on
continents or islands. Great civilizations have arisen at the mouths
or on the plains of great rivers. These favorable natural features
are the products of geologic agencies operating on rocks of different
kinds through long ages.

According to trustworthy authorities, the great deluge of Biblical
days, as well as the devastating flood of this century at Galveston,
Tex., was the result of a chance combination of hurricane and tide
in low coastal and estuarine areas.* Mountain passes, products of
geological agencies, have helped or hindered movements of peoples
or armies. The Germans took advantage of the lowlands in Belgium
in beginning their first advance in the World War. Accounts of
battles have shown that the geologic nature of the terrain is always an
important factor in any victory or defeat. However, the great under-
lying causes of wars are economic and depend in large measure upon
the distribution of supplies of usable mineral raw materials whose
origin and distribution are geologic problems.

The observation and study of nature is a prime element in any
modern educational program. Nature is so full of geology that one
can hardly look in any direction without seeing something of geologic
interest. Classes in nature study may have different objectives, but

‘The New England hurricane of September 1938 might be added here.
202 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938

geologic materials and processes are always available and may either
furnish the major interest or play some subordinate part. Geology
lends itself readily to the inculcation of methods of scientific study.
Either induction or deduction may be employed. The method of
multiple working hypotheses outlined by Gilbert ° many years ago is
a noteworthy contribution to scientific education.

Geologic literature, like that of other sciences, or literature in
general, contains much that is commonplace. Nevertheless, in the
hands of its masters it has risen to heights worthy of the emulation
of any student of English as well as of the sciences. Some years ago
I came upon such a passage written by Sir Archibald Geikie. It has
lingered in my memory ever since. Discussing stratified rocks of
pre-Cambrian age, he writes:

Few parts of the stratified crust of the earth present greater interest than these
earliest remaining sediments. As the geologist lingers among them, fascinated
by their antiquity and by the stubbornness with which they have shrouded their
secrets from his anxious scrutiny, he can sometimes scarcely believe that they
belong to so remote a part of the earth’s history as they can be assuredly proved
to do.

The shores of the British Isles have suffered severely from marine
erosion, fine examples of which may be seen at many places along their
coasts. The islands are small enough to enable almost any one who
so desires to view the activities of the ocean and the effects that winds,
waves, currents, and tides have produced. It is therefore not strange
that poetic and artistic genius should be stirred by scenes like these.
Such may have been the background of Tennyson’s poem, Crossing
the Bar, which has brought peace and comfort to vast numbers of
people.

Mendelssohn’s celebrated overture to Fingal’s Cave, still heard in
symphony concerts, was composed after his visit to the Island of
Staffa off the Scottish coast in 1829. Thus literature and art have
been enriched by interested observation of geologic processes and
products.

Sometimes art, as well as business, may be promoted by proximity
of needed materials. Professor Shaler used to say that the reason
Greek sculpture advanced to such heights of excellence was the fact
that in the marbles of Attica the Greeks possessed an unrivaled medium
for the expression of their art.

In the ordinary prosecution of his work the geologist brings to light
facts, principles, and ideas of great educational value. His reports,
papers, and discussions serve as the basis for textbook compilations,
classroom studies, and field excursions. As a branch of scientific
knowledge the cultural value of geology can hardly be overestimated.

5 Gilbert, G@. K., Amer. Journ. Sci., vol. 3, No. 31, pp. 284-299, 1886.
6 Geikie, A., Text book of geology, 4th ed., vol. 2, p. 876, New York, 1903.
GEOLOGY IN EVERYDAY LIFE—MANSFIELD 273

The literary value of its better products is high, its logic and broad
philosophies stimulate the mind, and its factual content has world-
wide interest.

SUMMARY

Geology, through its bearing on supplies of mineral raw materials,
necessary adjuncts to our civilization, enters into many relations of
local and national importance. The information it supplies is basic
to many great industries. It enters also into more intimate human
affairs. Truly it may be said that the relation of human life to geology
is as close as that of a fish to water. The earth on which we walk, the
air we breathe, the water we drink, the daily events of our lives and
even our higher endeavors and aspirations, are ordered or affected by
geologic phenomena and principles. Though mystery, in the sense
of things we can not explain, enters into geology as it does into life
itself, its commoner aspects are so clear, so instructive and so enticing
if once sensed, that they can hardly fail to appeal to the imagination
and interest of any active mind.
SVT NTE FY OF

bh ie) Paes : ait
ta TEESE: ‘ee ut wat

wale
ms

hyhake } “ot. Beh Kittin

htt hee HB rom oat ok kins ti ve phe fesroscr eevee

nun ri hee wad”

ay

1 vi Mela — a

Aetéi nies sii sostealix +

orci 7 at: nhilyaars Stas ae
Soi B's PHIM DET LOE ‘i wry Cie Pe ae as poeronmianaty afd §

‘ Py gris aay Oy yi aris iy TAT eee Ok a ie itt «at ees

NT Lehre aude Yer

THE FLOOR OF THE OCEAN!

By P. G. H. Boswett, D. Sc., F. R. S.

Professor of Geology in the University of London, Imperial College of Science and
Technology

Although Kipling’s village of Huckley, led by ’Dal Benzaguen
herself, may have voted that the Earth is Flat, it is undoubtedly a
fact that general opinion, outside perhaps Zion City, IIll., holds to
the view that it is a globe. But undue satisfaction in regard to our
knowledge of this globe is hardly warranted when we remember that
three-fifths of its surface is almost unknown to us. For this large
proportion of the earth’s crust (the lithosphere) is covered by the
oceanic envelope called the hydrosphere. The margins of the seas
have fluctuated since the earliest geological times and they fluctuate
to-day; as the sonneteer observed:

When I have seen the hungry ocean gain
Advantage on the kingdom of the shore,
And the firm soil win of the watery main
Increasing store with loss, and loss with store, * * *
And notwithstanding its imperfections, the geological record has been
fairly plainly written by these marginal fluctuations, but what lies
beneath the depth of the ocean, being invisible and only slightly
accessible, is still but little known. Yet when we are asked what
contribution the progress of science is making to deep-sea lore, we
can answer that during recent years significant advances have been
made in our knowledge both of the form of the ocean floor and the
deposits that cover it.

It is not the purpose of the present essay to consider the origin or
the age of the great oceanic basins—whether they are primitive and
original planetary features, or whether they have arisen by differen-
tial subsidence of parts of the earth crust or are “gapes” left by the
drifting apart of the continents. These questions have been dis-
cussed almost ad nauseam during the past two decades: suffice it to
say that the consensus of geological opinion does not favor the Wege-
ner hypothesis of continental drift, although admitting the possi-
bility that such drift may occur in certain parts of the crust on a

' Reprinted by permission from Science Progress, vol. 32, No. 125, July 1937.

275
114728—39——19
276 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938

relatively small scale. This matter concerns us here only insofar as
the form and covering of the ocean floors may throw light on the
controversy.

The variation in depth of the oceans over the surface of the globe
is familiar to all. In their main outline, the bathymetrical contours
have long since been plotted, and the work of recent deep-sea ex-
ploration has only necessitated modification in detail of such contours.
The broad distribution of deep-sea deposits—the organic oozes and
red clay—in relation to depth is also a matter of general knowledge.
The character of these deposits and the areas and depths of the floors
where they occur was first made known from the classical investiga-
tions of the Challenger expedition in 1880, although earlier expeditions
had foreshadowed some of the results. Since then numerous scientific
explorations have been made, and have duly been referred to in text-
books of oceanography.

With certain exceptions, the types of deposits found on the ocean
floor are related to the depth, the distribution of the various types
corresponding with different submarine levels. A clear picture of the
respective areas in relation to the heights or depths is furnished by
what is known as the hypsographical curve of the earth’s surface.
From this diagram, in which areas are plotted as abscissae and heights
as ordinates, it becomes evident that two levels are most widespread.
The first is a land level consisting of the greater part of the conti-
nents (all but about 9 percent, which constitute the “mountainous”
areas) together with a continental shelf that is submerged beneath
the sea to an eventual depth of about 100 fathoms (nearly 200
meters) at its margin. The second is the deep-sea level, which in-
cludes most of the ocean floor; this, if regarded as lying between
1,400 and 2,800 fathoms (2% and 5 kilometers) in depth, occupies
about two-fifths of the earth’s surface. The ill-defined stage con-
necting these levels, that is, the continental slope, is of small extent,
possibly 8 percent of the earth’s surface, and the deeps or sinks in
the ocean floor lying below 3,000 fathoms in depth (5% kilometers)
constitute only about 4 percent of the surface, although this propor-
tion may prove to be slightly greater when more records of depths
are obtained. The deep-sea area, including the deeps, thus com-
prises some 115 million square miles (295 square kilometers), or more
than half the earth’s surface; the character of its surface and covering
would therefore appear to merit greater attention than they have
hitherto been given, especially when we recall the vast literature
concerned with the geology of the continental areas of the globe.

Successive expeditions have added considerably to the number
of sounding stations originally established by the Challenger, and
we now realize that the ocean floor has topographical irregularities
THE FLOOR OF THE OCEAN—BOSWELL PA |

no less impressive than those of the continents. Moreover, the
employment during recent years of echo-sounding methods, so
economical of time and labor, has revealed interesting features
such as submarine canyons, deep hollows, and scarplike elevations.
Now that some hundred canyons have been located, Prof. R. A. Daly
has recently done good service by assembling the evidence relating to
them. He notes that several occur along the continental shelf between
the latitudes of Cape Cod and Cape Hatteras, including the classic
“Wudson River Canyon” off New York City. Thirty examples have
been found along Georges Bank off the New England coast and an
even greater number between the northern end of Vancouver Island
and southern California. Others have been determined off the
Hawaiian Islands, in the northern and western parts of the Gulf of
Mexico, off the western coast of Mexico, the Bahama Bank, the coasts
of Brazil and Ecuador, the eastern coast of Korea, both eastern and
western coasts of Japan, eastern and southern coasts of Formosa, off
the mouths of the Ganges and Indus, and the coast of Ceylon. Around
the African continent they have been proved to occur south of Zanzi-
bar, off the south coast, opposite the mouths of the Congo, Ogowe,
and Niger, and off the Gold Coast and Cape Verde. In Europe, they
have been located in the region beyond the coasts of Portugal, France,
and the British Isles. Thus their distribution is world-wide. Many
extend as cuts through the continental shelf and reach a depth of at
least 1,000 fathoms. Although some have no direct topographical
connection with great rivers (for example, those closely spaced on
Georges Bank), most are on the axial lines of such, notwithstanding
the fact that delta-building is in progress. In relation to the conti-
nental shelf, they usually run straight down in the direction of slope—
as though formed by rivers ‘“‘consequent”’ on the shelf, their longi-
tudinal gradients being from 1 in 100 to 1 in 10. Some are shallow,
that is, not deeper than 50 fathoms (100 m) and confined to the area
of the shelf, but many show depths reaching from 500 to 1,600 fathoms.
Their walls are steep, the gradient being apparently from 1 in 3 to
1 in 1, and from the walls of those off California masses of fossiliferous
Upper Cretaceous and late Tertiary clays have been dredged.

The mode of origin of these canyons has long been a problem—
indeed, ever since the time when Buchanan attributed the classic
example found off the mouth of the Congo to submarine river erosion.
Some examples have probably arisen in this way, but it seems unlikely
that submarine rivers can cut to great depths in relatively deep and
quiet oceanic waters, even if we grant Daly’s postulate, that such
streams, being laden with mud, have increased erosive powers. Other
canyons are probably tectonic; that is, are due to down-folding or
278 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938

faulting of the earth’s crust under the sea. But the problem in
general remains.

Ridges, scarps, or deeps on the sea floor have been recorded from
time to time, but latterly more precise information has been furnished
by the work of the Dutch Snellius expedition and our own John Murray
expedition in the Red Sea, Arabian Sea, and Indian Ocean. As the
investigators on the Snellius expedition emphasized, the possibility of
a submarine fault assuming gigantic proportions is not in accord with
Wegener’s theory of a plastic substratum which is necessary for the
drift of continental masses. Thanks to Dr. Vening Meinesz’s investi-
gations of the value of gravity at sea, made by pendulum observations
in submerged submarines, it has become possible to relate the deeps,
which are usually long and narrow depressions of the sea floor, to long
and narrow belts of strong negative anomalies of gravity. Thus there
is more than a suggestion that such deeps are of tectonic origin, and
consequently due to down-folding or fracturing of the crust. As has
long been realized, the best-known deeps, such as those south of the
Java-Timor are and northeast of the Antillean arc, are situated in
the neighborhood of land-masses where earth-building movements
have recently been active. The same is probably true of the Nero
Trough of the Marianas, the Atacama Deep and the South Sandwich
Islands Deep.

We pass to the consideration of the deposits at present being
laid down on this submarine surface of varied relief. We have as
yet no evidence of any relationship between the canyons and deeps
and the type of sediment deposited, but apart from these, it is gen-
erally true to say that the deep-sea sediments vary in character
according to the depths of water in which they have accumulated.
Several expeditions, notably the Meteor, the Carnegie, and the Discovery
IT, have recently provided additional information about such deposits,
but it is a tribute to the work of the Challenger expedition that the
classification introduced half a century ago still stands. The various
expeditions of the research ship Discovery IJ, begun in 1925, are still
in progress. Organized by the colonial office with the view of acquir-
ing knowledge of the important economic problem of the feeding and
breeding of whales in the South Seas, the personnel of the expeditions
lost no opportunity of making scientific observations relating to the
depth, salinity, and temperature of ocean waters, to marine life of all
kinds, and to the character of sea-bottom deposits. Valuable results
are gradually being published in a series of volumes, but inasmuch as
many of the specimens must be examined by busy specialists, much
information is still awaited, including the detailed descriptions of
the floor deposits. But already results of surprising interest have
been announced. The classification of the deep-sea deposits intro-
THE FLOOR OF THE OCEAN—BOSWELL 279

duced by Sir John Murray, of the Challenger expedition, requires
modification only in detail: it may now be summarized thus:

feeb Ie W. and 1005) “6g

Glauconitic mud
Diatomaceous mua
Deep-sea deposits (below) Diatomaceous ooze
100 f.) Globigerina ooze
Radiolarian ooze
Red clay
Except for the red clay, the pelagic deposits are almost entirely
organic, and they fall into two groups consisting respectively of
predominant calcium carbonate or amorphous silica. The cal-
careous materials include immense quantities of coccolithophores,
which are calcareous algae, the well-known coccoliths being the
separated plates of the skeletons; foraminifera, chiefly Globigerina
and allied forms; and pteropods. The work of the German Meteor
expedition demonstrated that in the Atlantic the coccolithophores
are of wide distribution in the ocean, but the Globigerinae lived
almest exclusively in temperate or warm water. The solubility of
the skeletons of these organisms, which are composed of calcium
carbonate, increases with pressure and fall of temperature, that is,
with increased depth of water. The siliceous organisms consist
of four groups: diatoms, silico-flagellates, radiolaria, and siliceous
sponges. The diatom frustules are exceedingly small and enter
into deep-sea deposits only where other remains, such as calcareous
skeletons, are dissolved away, and where mineral material derived
from erosion of the land is slight—as for example in Arctic and
Antarctic regions. The occurrence of radiolaria in sea-water is
similar to that of other plankton, but the main distribution of radio-
larian ooze in the Pacific and Indian Oceans lies in the deeper regions,
where the depth and low temperature have assisted in the solution of
calcareous remains as they settle down. Recently Dr. E. Neaverson
has noted the presence of radiolarian ooze among the samples collected
by Discovery II, from the South Atlantic, a first record. Of these
deposits, the globigerina ooze and the diatomaceous ooze together
occupy a large proportion of the ocean floor, the former 50 million
square miles, extending down to a depth of 2,500 fathoms, and the
latter 11 million square miles, principally at a less depth and in the
colder regions. But there remains a third deposit of even greater
extent (52 million square miles)—the red clay, which is confined to
the deepest regions, like the radiolarian ooze. It is found mainly in
the Atlantic Ocean, though why it should occur there, and the other
very deep-water deposit chiefly in the Pacific and Indian Oceans, is at

Terrigenous deposits (contain-

Shallow-water deposits (be- {sens
ing detrital material)

Pelagic deposits
280 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938

present not clear. The red clay is entirely mineral in character,
consisting of particles of 2 microns (.002 mm) diameter, together with
finer clay material. It has been regarded as in part the insoluble resi-
due of the skeletons of organisms, left after solution of calcium car-
bonate, silica, and other constituents by subsidence through the
great depths. But its mineral constitution does not lend support
to this view, nor is it borne out by the characters of the insoluble
residues shown by chemical analyses of skeletons of marine animals.
More probably it results from the slow accumulation of fine volcanic
dust, which is blown over the ocean for great distances, and from
the decomposition of volcanic products such as ash, pumice, and
basalt, which have fallen into ocean waters. In addition, however,
to minerals such as felspar and augite (and in the clayey portion
montmorillonite) which could be derived in this way, there are many
tiny grains of quartz, a mineral unlikely to occur except rarely in
products of oceanic volcarioes. The presence of these makes it
seem likely that wind-blown material other than volcanic dust must
reach the depths. Indeed, Stefansson observed that off-shore winds
carried sand and even gravel far out on to off-shore ice, and others
have recorded dust-falls derived from the Saharan region, at a distance
of 1,700 miles west of the African coast. In the great 1912 eruption
of Katmai in Alaska, a thickness of 6 mm of volcanic dust was de-
posited at 220 miles distance; also, the effects of dust from Krakatoa
carried three times round the earth in 1883 are still remembered.
Further, it has been observed that in samples from both the Narrow
Seas and the South Atlantic relatively coarse grains of quartz are
buoyed up by filamentous masses of flocculent protoplasmic or other
organic material and can travel thus for long distances in the sea,

Little work has been done on the constitution of the clayey fractions
of pelagic deposits, but preliminary X-ray investigations by Prof.
©. W. Correns of Rostock showed that a sample of red clay collected
by the Meteor is composed of kaolinite, calcite, and muscovite mica.
There is here an extensive field for investigation.

When we recall how these pelagic deposits have arisen, we realize
that the rate of accumulation must be extremely slow. Schott
has estimated that in 1,000 years a thickness of 17.8 mm of blue
mud, 12 mm of globigerina ooze, and less than 8.6 mm of red clay
would be laid down. No surprise need be felt, therefore, at the
oft-quoted statement that teeth of sharks dredged from the ocean
floor, of species now extinct, have been found to be covered with
only a film of deposit. On the other hand, there is the surpris-
ing record of some inch or two of globigerina ooze found cover-
ing the Atlantic cable when it was brought to the surface for repair.
An inch of deposit in less than a century is almost incredible; and
THE FLOOR OF THE OCEAN—BOSWELL 281

we are obliged to consider the possibility of the cable having sunk
in the ooze.

For many years before the Challenger expedition the pioneer
methods of bottom-sampling by means of lead sinkers were fol-
lowed, but subsequent improvements in technique led to the recovery
of samples in valved tubes, that is, small borehole samples were
obtained. Even then, only the surface layer of the sea bottom
was penetrated. Efforts have therefore been directed to obtaining
longer and still longer cores from the ocean floor; the Meteor obtained
cores 1 meter in length, and the Snellius afterward brought up
cores of a length of 2 meters or more. The possibility of obtaining a
stratigraphical succession of floor deposits is fascinating to geologists,
because clues to changing conditions of fauna, climate, and depth
during geological ages may thus be yielded.

One of our own most versatile investigators, the late Prof. John
Joly, of Dublin, devised a form of deep-sea apparatus for obtaining
core-samples. More recently, Dr. C. S. Piggot, recognizing the
necessity of improving on the results obtained by the ill-fated American
research ship Carnegie, has devised a new type of apparatus, by which
the contact of the sampler with the sea floor actuates the trigger of a
firing mechanism and so forces the tube down farther than the few feet
to which it would be driven by the momentum of the falling weight.
Experimental work indicates that cores from 4 feet to 8 feet 8 inches in
length can be obtained from depths varying from 200 to 1,250 fathoms.

Already, however, the older method of coring has shown the
presence of different deep-sea deposits in superposition; of globi-
gerina ooze resting on blue mud, and of red clay overlying globigerina
ooze, as noted by Correns in his accounts of the Meteor samples.
Now W. Schott’s statistical studies of the fauna of South Atlantic
waters indicate that at a depth of about 25 cm in the ooze, warm-
water foraminifera such as Globorotalia menardi cease to occur,
while Globigerina bulloides and G. inflata which favor cooler but
still temperate waters increase in quantity. This kind of faunal
variation, already conjectured by Philippi, the geologist to the
Gauss expedition, suggests that the deep-sea deposits can furnish
evidence of a climatic change. That the variation is not due to
the drifting currents is shown by the similarity of the present dis-
tribution in the Middle and South Atlantic of G. bulloides in oceanic
waters and in the superficial floor deposits. It is possible that the
underlying deposits from which Globorotalia menardi is absent were
laid down during a recent cold period—perhaps the last phase of the
Ice Age. Further, if we assume that the area occupied by the limeless
red clay is extensive because cold deep waters are strongly solvent on
calcareous skeletons, the fact that red clay overlies a globigerina
ooze, which in turn overlies beds with warm-water forms, suggests
282 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938

that a warm period preceded the cold one. At the moment such
conclusions may be speculative, but they point the way to promising
investigations.

Many years ago it was deemed probable that the deep-water sedi-
ments were more highly radioactive than terrigenous deposits,
although there was some doubt regarding the early determinations of
radium contents by Joly and by Pettersson in the samples they
examined, collected by the Challenger, Albatross, and Princess Alice II.
More modern methods adopted by C. S. Piggot in the analysis of
samples of globigerina ooze, red clay, and blue mud collected by the
Carnegie have shown that the earlier conclusions were well founded.
Only 28 sediments, obtained from stations scattered throughout the
Atlantic Ocean, were tested by Piggot—a small enough number to
represent such a vast area. With a few exceptions the specimens
proved to have an extraordinarily high concentration of radium as
compared with that of continental rocks, such as ancient sediments
and granite, and even more so as compared with basalt. The general
average of Piggot’s analyses shows 6.52 g.x107-” radium per gram of
sediment; for comparison, an average for granite might be assessed
at 2.5X10-” and for basalt at 0.8X10~”, although many granites
give a figure more like that of basalt. Exceptionally high contents
noted by Piggot in sediments from the deepest parts of the oceans,
such as red clay, reached 21.40X10-” and 16.72X107-”.

What is the source of this radium and what is the geophysical
significance of the relatively high content of the coating of the ocean
floor? To elucidate the first problem, Piggot turned to minerals
believed to be in process of formation in the depths, and chose some
of the manganese nodules which reveal growth banding with trapped
clay layers between the coats of manganese oxide. Uranium was
found to be fairly evenly distributed throughout a nodule, and the
radium-content was high, although it varied in the different constitu-
ents of the nodules. The problem is therefore concerned rather with
the parent uranium than with radium itself, and it has been suggested
that the concentration is brought about by the numerous minute living
organisms in the sea which extract, more or less selectively, the salts
of uranium and radium from the sea-water, and incorporate them in
their skeletons. When they die their remains take the radioactive
material to the bottom with them. Piggot disagrees with this view,
and also with that of Pettersson, who ascribed the high concentration
to submarine vulcanism. The uranium in sea water must come
ultimately from igneous rocks which are broken down on land. It is,
of course, in solution in sea water, and if we are to judge by the radium
content, it is in much the same proportions there as in ordinary rocks.
Near the shore the radium content of the sediments only approximates
to that of the ordinary rocks of the continent; thus the enrichment in
THE FLOOR OF THE OCEAN—BOSWELL 283

depth cannot be explained by detrital accumulation. Moreover, as
stated above, red clays (which are the richest of the deposits) are
believed to accumulate exceedingly slowly from decomposition of
volcanic material, diluted perhaps by residues from skeletons of organ-
isms and rare wind-borne detritus. Piggot suggests that although
some uranium may be brought down by the settling of skeletal remains
and volcanic dust, the greater proportion comes out as a result of
oxidation at depth, for the oxygen concentration in sea water increases,
according to the Carnegie’s records, with depth below 1,000 fathoms.
On the other hand, in shallow water or near to continents suflicient
organic matter is present to maintain the reducing conditions, which
tend to keep the uranium in solution. The environment at the
bottom of the ocean being of an oxidizing rather than reducing nature,
organic material disappears, and the water must be almost at satura-
tion with respect to oxides of uranium. Thus there is a tendency for
them to separate out like the oxides of iron and manganese.

The data obtained by the Carnegie regarding this increase in oxy-
gen concentration throws light on various other phenomena and
even on the color and composition of the deepest deposit—red clay
itself, but they raise a difficulty when we try to explain the fresh and
unoxidized condition of many of the minerals in deep-sea deposits.
A considerable number of these minerals, as well as the fragments
of volcanic glass associated with them, are of a type that is far from
resistant to the effects of weathering, such as oxidation and hydra-
tion, on land. Reference is made below to the volcanic origin of
most of such minerals. Well-known examples like olivine, augite,
hypersthene, and biotite mica, are found in deep-sea sediments in a
fresh unaltered state, often with crystal faces still sharply defined.
Submarine ‘‘weathering,”’ to use a contradictory term, cannot there-
fore proceed on the same lines as the corresponding process on the
continents. If the conditions in deep waters are oxidizing, we may
ask what it is that inhibits the process analogous to weathering (the
“halmyrolysis” of some authors). We can only suggest possible
explanations of this ‘‘stabilized” condition of affairs; for example,
that (a) the waters are charged to saturation with carbon dioxide,
(b) they are kept at an approximately low and relatively constant
temperature, (c) the pressure is great, often exceeding 500 atmos-
pheres, or even (d) light is absent.

From the foregoing, it will have become evident that there are
three possible sources for the mineral material of deep-sea sediments
deposited beyond the reach of river-borne detritus, namely, (a) the
products of volcanic eruptions, either submarine or wind-borne from
terrestrial outbursts, (b) nonvolcanic dust carried by wind from dis-
tant lands, and (c) detritus dropped from melting icebergs at extreme
284 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938

distances from their source. A little further consideration may now
be given to the effect of volcanic action.

Our attempts to penetrate the superficial layer of the ocean floor
are necessarily very limited, and the likelihood of establishing the
nature of the foundation rock of the crust is remote. But indirect
evidence is afforded by the submarine volcanoes which are numerous
and widespread in the oceanic areas. Many are of immense size and
some rise, like Mauna Loa in the Hawaiian Islands, from the ocean
depths to heights of 13,600 feet above sea level. Indeed, most of the
islands which lie far from continental shores are composed exclusively of
rocks which have cooled from the molten state, and mostly of rocks of
volcanic origin as distinct from deep-seated origin, i. e., those that have
solidified in the depths of the earth’s crust. The rock basalt, familiar
to all in the Giant’s Causeway and the Hebrides, is of commonest
occurrence in oceanic islands, and the broad similarity of the chemical
composition of specimens from widely separated island localities
points to derivation from a common subcrustal region or shell. In
some islands there is a sorting-out of mineral (i. e., chemical) con-
stituents, known as differentiation, which leads to the formation by
crystallization of various rock-types, but these are rarities from the
standpoint of total bulk.

It is common knowledge that when lavas are emitted from vol-
canoes on dry land, they not infrequently (like Vesuvius, for example)
float up fragments of the “‘ccuntry-rock”’ more or less baked and some-
times in part assimilated at their margins. The “intrusive” representa-
tives of the lava, that is, the feeders which become consolidated before
they reach the surface, contain many more such “xenoliths.”’ In a
country where the crustal rocks are concealed by the volcanic pile,
useful information is thus afforded of the nature of the superficial
crust. But in oceanic areas such xenoliths of continental rocks are
very scarce or not found in the lavas, the records that exist being
nonproven. Hence has arisen the view that the foundation of the
ocean is the same as that below the continental masses (or sial),
namely, the subcrustal layer of approximately basaltic composition
known as the sima. Support for this deduction is afforded by the rate
of propagation of earthquake waves.

Volcanoes on land, or below the sea in maritime areas, are frequently
of explosive type, the rocks being blown to fragments, even to dust,
and the products distributed over a relatively wide area. The
fragmental materials there consist of broken-up crystalline or glassy
lava or disintegrated continental rocks. In the case of submarine
volcanoes it is reasonable to suppose that if explosive action occurs
(although it may be damped down by the great load of the ocean),
the products would be distributed throughout the deep-sea sediments
at present being laid down. Now, examination of large numbers of
THE FLOOR OF THE OCEAN—BOSWELL 285

these deposits from all over the ocean floor brings out the fact that
(if we except certain occurrences not very far from land, or wind-
borne, as mentioned previously) the detrital minerals are those con-
fined to igneous rocks and frequently to lavas. Minerals which could
have been derived only from ancient sedimentary and metamorphic
rocks, like those which make up the continents, are strikingly rare.

In the reports of the Challenger expedition some 40 or more minerals
were recorded from deep-sea deposits. All could have been derived
from volcanic or intrusive rocks, or by growth in place: not one species
is peculiar to continental rocks. The general impression given by the
assemblage of minerals is intensified by the oft-recorded presence of
volcanic glass, tuff, palagonite and pumice. It would be inappropriate
to a general review such as this to cite long lists of minerals or to
describe their characters. It is probably of more interest to pass on
to a brief consideration of some of the newly-constituted minerals
now being formed on the sea floor.

The problem of the mode of formation of such authigenic minerals
in sediments has long fascinated geologists. The term authigenic
denotes those minerals which have been formed in place, either
contemporaneously with the sediment or at a later date, as distinct
from the detrital minerals derived from the breaking-up of preexisting
rocks. The Challenger expedition discovered several authigenic
minerals in deep-sea deposits, among them being glauconite, calcium
phosphate, phillipsite, and other zeolites, and manganese oxide (in
manganese nodules). Among similar minerals, believed in some cases
to be of authigenic origin in ancient sedimentary rocks, are soda-
felspar (albite), potash-felspar (orthoclase and microcline), chlorite,
epidote, pseudo-sillimanite, sphene, tourmaline, and others, many
being somewhat complex silicates. We still hope that a more inten-
sive study of deep-sea sediments may throw light on their mode of
origin and perhaps even reveal them in actual process of formation.
Recently, two interesting and unexpected authigenic minerals new to
science have been discovered by Messrs. F. A. Bannister and M. Hey,
in samples collected by the Scotia from the Weddell Sea. From a
careful study of the chemical composition, optical properties and
X-ray spectrograms of some minute crystals found in the samples,
these investigators have described ‘‘envelope” crystals of a calcium
oxalate dihydrate from a depth of 2,400—2,700 fathoms. Somewhat
similar crystals have been found in cells of plants, in the gall of mam-
mals and fish, and in renal calculi. The chemical composition of these
deep-sea crystals suggests an origin in which organic processes played
apart. They appear to have been formed in muds on the sea-bottom,
here in an area of increased salinity, corresponding to a slight under-
saturation of calcium carbonate. A second group of crystals, similarly
investigated, proved to have the composition of hydrated calcium
286 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938

citrate. The mineral has been named ‘‘Earlandite”’ in honor of the
distinguished worker on foraminifera, who found them among the
organic remains in samples he was examining. As calcium citrate
has been found in plants, the presence of impurities such as Sr, Ba,
Mg, Mn, Fe, and Cu in the crystals may be significant They came
from a depth of 1,410 fathoms and are of very restricted distribution ;
their origin is conjectural. Bannister and Hey also found crystals of
gypsum (CaSQ,.2H,O) in samples collected by the Discovery in the
Weddell Sea in 1925, from a depth of 2,800 fathoms. These gypsum
crystals are of lenticular form up to 2mm in length. Although they
have not previously been found in oceanic deposits, they have been
known for many years to be authigenic constituents of the muds of
the Mersey Estuary. Their formation in the Weddell Sea, like that
of the two new minerals mentioned, points to peculiar conditions,
perhaps of deep-sea lagoonal character.

In review, we see in the history of the earth the operation of
repetitions of the geological cycle of rock-erosion (earth-sculpture),
transport and deposition of sediment, and earth movement leading
to uplift. The interaction of the atmosphere, hydrosphere, and
lithosphere, assisted by the thermal energy of the sun and the
gravitational influence of the moon, results in the disintegrating
work of frost, rain, wind, changes of temperature, and the waves.
The geologists’ music of the spheres, though not without harmony,
resolves itself into two clear refrains—of degradation on the surface
of the exposed earth crust, and synthesis on the sea floor. But the
process of reconstruction is effected with impoverished materials, for
the decomposition of rocks and minerals proceeds both mechanically
and chemically, and the soluble products pass out of the geological
cycle to a considerable extent by accumulating in ocean waters. All
the known chemical elements are doubtless present in solution in the
sea, but whilst calcium, silicon, iron, phosphorus, copper, and others
are extracted to a greater or less extent by organisms, elements such
as sodium, chlorine, and nitrogen accumulate. Against this increasing
salinity of the sea, we must set off the formation of authigenic min-
erals on the sea floor, but we have no reason for thinking that this
process bulks largely. A certain amount of compensation for the
loss of soluble materials from the geological cycle is afforded by the
delivery from subcrustal reservoirs of new rock material by volcanic
action, but we have no means of assessing its effect in restoring the
balance.

Prediction is dangerous, but we may go so far as to ask ourselves
whether the pointers in geology are suggestive of an irreversible
trend to an uninteresting uniformity. On the earth’s crust, the
breaking-down of minerals and rocks, many of which are complex
silicates, results in the liberation of the elements which form more
THE FLOOR OF THE OCEAN—BOSWELL 287

soluble compounds, the alkalies, calcium, magnesium, and so forth.
The insoluble residues are ultimately of clayey character, such as
hydrated silicates of aluminium and oxides of aluminium and iron.
Hitherto, we have distinguished between mechanical disintegration
and chemical decomposition as processes of degradation, but recent
investigations by Prof. A. Brammall of the Imperial College of
Science and Technology, as beautiful in their simplicity as they are
significant in their wide repercussions, have abolished that distinction.
For Professor Brammall has extended the work of Tamm and Stevens
by demonstrating that fine grinding of most common rock-forming
minerals brings them into a condition when they are hydroscopic and
become partially dissociated in water, so that the elements of the
alkalies and alkaline earths are liberated.

Ultimately, then, the finer suspended material which reaches the
deeper parts of the sea consists almost exclusively of simple hydrated
silicates of aluminium in a fine state of division, that is, clay. In
addition to this detrital accumulation there are the deposits of cal-
careous and siliceous materials formed by organisms. It would seem
that there is thus an almost complete differentiation into a solution
(sea water) rich in its diverse dissolved elements, and ‘dull’ floor
deposits of very restricted composition. Such must be the tendency
unless synthetic processes are proceeding in the depths to form new
minerals. J. L. Thiébaut claimed to have proved in 1925 that
marine clays were usually composed of complex silicates of aluminium,
iron, potash, calcium, and magnesium, in contradistinction to fresh-
water clays which are largely silicates of aluminium with a little iron
and magnesium. We may ask then—or formulate the question as a
problem for investigation—whether the elements in sea water are
being restored to the accumulating simple clays in the depths of the
sea, a region termed by Correns “‘Nature’s laboratory,” although
perhaps to speak of “factory’’ would be more appropriate. But in
the meantime even our small knowledge of the processes at work
convinces us, with Shakespeare, that ‘‘clay and clay differ in dignity.”
or 4

ay ah et : r
Wii teat “1G i : ; ‘ wy Fil =a,

»
'
ry - i 4

J a ks . he i] ahi ; , i ROA pt i!

‘oo
a 4

ICE AGES!
By Str Grorae Simpson, K. C. B., F. B.S.

[With one plate]

It is now common knowledge that there have been great changes in
climate during past ages. The geological evidence is perfectly clear
that luxuriant vegetation once grew in Greenland and Spitsbergen,
where now the hardiest forms of vegetable life can barely exist on the
small areas free from permanent ice. At the other extreme, there is
no doubt whatever that at one period a great ice sheet covered the
plains of Central India and discharged icebergs into a sea covering
what is now the Punjab and North-West India—one of the hottest
parts of the earth.

From the geological record it would appear that the climatic changes
of the past were in all directions, some warmer and some colder, some
wetter and some drier than at present; and some individual localities
appear to have experienced all possible climates at one time or another.

It is the problem of meteorologists to study the extent and sequence
of the climatic variations in all parts of the world and to seek the cause
and mechanism of the changes. Very little progress has been made
in that direction up to the present for two main reasons. In the first
place, the geological evidence is very fragmentary and often doubtful;
and secondly, we know very little of what causes climatic variations
and how they are controlled.

The geological evidence of change of climate is based on the fossil
relics of past vegetable and animal life and on the physical effects
which climatic conditions have on the surface rocks. The former is
very difficult to interpret. Heavy vegetation does not always mean
warm damp conditions, and both plants and animals may, in the
course of ages, change their habits so that the early representative of
a species which is now warmth-loving may have been developed in
cold surroundings. For this reason, one cannot be certain of climatic
conditions deduced from the remains of vegetable and animal life.

The case is quite different when we base our climatic deductions on
the physical features of old land surfaces. There can be no doubt
when we find traces of salts left when an enclosed sea has dried up
that we are dealing with a dry climate in which the rainfall was less

1 Friday Evening Discourse delivered at the Royal Institution on December 10, 1937. Reprinted by per-
mission of the Royal Institution from Nature, vol. 141, No. 3570, April 2, 1938.
289
290 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938

than the evaporation. But of all evidences of climate those of ice
are the most unmistakable. At the same time one has to be careful,
for today the presence of ice does not always mean a cold climate.
In mountain regions glaciers descend the valleys into climates which
are far from arctic, and in New Zealand especially, ice action is taking
place in valleys which bear an almost subtropical vegetation. There
have been periods in the past when ice formation was much more
active than at present and of such an extent that only a radical
change in climate can have been responsible.

The evidence of the presence of ice during these periods in places
where ice is quite impossible with the present climate is so clear that
these Ice Ages, as they are called, are the most appropriate subjects
for the study of climatic change. If we can find a cause for an Ice

FIGURE 1.—Pleistocene glaciation: Ice on land shown by white, ice on sea shown by light stipple.

Age we shall have made a long step forward toward explaining all
changes of climate.

PRE-CAMBRIAN ICE AGE

In the early days of geology, when evidence of tropical vegetation
was found in regions which are now far from the Tropics, it was sup-
posed that the high temperature required by these plants was due
to the earth still remaining hot from its earlier molten state. The
discovery, however, of clear evidence of ice in pre-Cambrian times,
that is, at a time far anterior to the appearance of vegetation, shows
that the earth had by then already cooled to its present temperatures.
Evidence of pre-Cambrian ice has been found in North America,
Europe, China, South Africa, India, and Australia. Some geologists
have concluded from this widespread evidence of ice that the pre-
Cambrian Ice Age was extremely severe. So little is known, however,
ICE AGES—SIMPSON 291

about this early age, and there is no evidence that all these places
were glaciated at the same time, that it is useless to try to reconstruct
the climatic conditions which then existed. The only certain con-
clusion is that already stated, namely, that the temperature of the
earth was then already sufficiently low to allow of ice formation.

PERMO-CARBONIFEROUS ICE AGE

After the pre-Cambrian Ice Age, there is little or no evidence of
extensive ice until toward the end of the Carboniferous Period or the
beginning of the Permian Period, when evidence of extensive ice
appears. This period is called the Permo-Carboniferous Ice Age.
The chief regions where the ice was extensive and the evidence un-
doubted are in South America, South Africa, Australia, and India.
The latter is well within the Tropics, and the evidence is perfectly
clear that an extensive ice sheet existed at sea level in the Central
Provinces, India. It is of great importance to notice that, so far as
the evidence goes, the ice at this time was all situated within 40° of
latitude of the Equator, and mainly in the Southern Hemisphere.
Most geologists consider that at the same time the north polar regions
had much higher temperatures than at present, luxuriant vegetation
growing at this time in both Greenland and Spitsbergen.

This would mean that while there was glaciation within the
Tropics leading to vast ice sheets at sea level, there was an almost
subtropical climate in polar regions. This is a reversal of the
climatic belts which no meteorologist can accept. Owing to the shape
of the earth, the equatorial belt must always be warmer than the
polar regions. The only explanation the meteorologist can give—
and it was given by Wegener—is that the continents were not then
in the same position relative to the Pole as they now occupy. In
other words, the continents have moved since Permo-Carboniferous

times.
THE PLEISTOCENE ICE AGE

After the Permian Period, there was another long stretch of time
without any marked evidence of ice. This interval includes the whole
of the Secondary and Tertiary divisions of geological time.

Evidence of ice was not entirely absent during this period, but
geologists are of the opinion that the climate of the world as a whole
was warmer than at present. In any event there was nothing equiva-
lent to the extensive ice fields which left their traces in the pre-Cam-
brian and the Permo-Carboniferous Periods.

The Tertiary ended with the Pliocene Period, when without doubt
the climate of Europe was definitely warmer than at present. Toward
the end of the Pliocene Period the temperature commenced to fall in
Europe, and evidence of ice made its appearance. Some time between

114728—39-—-20
292 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938

the end of the Pliocene Period and the present time, that is, geologic-
ally speaking, during the Pleistocene Period, there was a great exten-
sion of ice in all parts of the world.

The map (fig. 1) shows the area which was under ice at some
time or other during the Pleistocene Period. The north polar ice cap
extended outward, reaching latitude 38° N. in North America, 50° N.
in Europe, and 60° N. in Asia. In the British Isles the ice sheet ex-
tended as far south as the Thames Valley but did not cross it. The
ice covering of the Antarctic was then much thicker than at present,
and Meinardus estimates that the flow of ice from the Antarctic
continent into the surrounding seas was at least three times as much as
at present.

Not only were the polar ice caps more extensive and thicker, but
also the mountain glaciation was much developed and the glaciers
reached much farther down the valleys. The evidence shows that
this was so in all parts of the world. Not only were the mountains
which now carry ice more heavily glaciated, but also many mountains
which now carry no permanent ice had extensive glaciers upon them.

Detailed study of the deposits left behind by the ice shows that there
was more than one advance and retreat of the ice during the Pleisto-
cene Period. Glacial and interglacial epochs have been detected in all
regions which were glaciated, both in regions covered by the extended
polar ice caps and on the glaciated mountains. The history of the
Pleistocene glaciation has been most completely studied by Penck
and Briickner in the Alps. The result of their work is summarized in
figure 2, which is a reproduction of their classical diagram showing the
variation of the height of the snow line in the Alps during the Pleisto-
cene Period. From this diagram it will be seen that Penck and
Briickner concluded that the snow line descended far down the moun-
tains on four occasions, the limits reached each time being practically
the same, namely, about 1,500 meters (4,000—5,000 feet) below the
present snow line. They gave the names: Gunz, Mindel, Riss, and
Wiirm to the four glacial epochs. It will be noticed that the four
glacial epochs occur in pairs—the Gunz with the Mindel and the Riss
with the Wiirm—with a rather longer interglacial epoch between
them.

There is no certain evidence that the history of the ice worked out
in the Alps applies to other parts of the world; but meteorological con-
siderations make it very improbable that there were different glacial
histories for each part of the world; and as the evidence of glacial and
interglacial epochs has been found wherever the glacial history of a
country can be worked out in detail, one is justified in concluding that
these epochs occurred simultaneously as the result of a world-wide
cause.
ICE AGES—SIMPSON 293

This conclusion is becoming more and more accepted by glaciologists
as they work out the sequence of the glacial epochs in their own
regions, and a meteorologist cannot accept any other conclusion. In
the sequel, therefore, we shall consider that the glacial history of the
Alps is representative of the glacial history of the world as a whole.

The advance and retreat of the ice must have been accompanied by
large variations in the climate. When a country such as Great
Britain was invaded by an ice sheet, the climate must have been that
of the polar regions today, and the fossils of plants and animals leave
no doubt that such was the case. The climate during the interglacial
periods, however, is much more interesting and unexpected. One
would not have been surprised if the climate during the temporary
retreat of the ice had remained cold and unpleasant. The evidence
however, is quite clear that in some, if not all, the interglacial epochs,
the climate became warmer and more genial than today. At Hétting,
in the Alps near Innsbruck, fossil leaves have been found of a rho-
dodendron which grows today only in Portugal and the Caucasus,
where the temperature is higher and the rainfall greater than it now
is in H6tting; in the rivers of Europe (including the Thames) the

12 Einhelten 3

Chelléen > <Moustérlen >

Solutréen
Magdalenien

Jung= .
NeoliFhisch

Jahrtausende 20 7

FIGURE 2.—Penck and Briickner’s diagram of height of snow line in Alps during the Pleistocene ice age,

shells of fresh-water mollusks are found which now survive only in
rivers such as the Nile, the temperature of which is 10° C. higher
than that of the European rivers of today; and on the coasts of
Holland and Denmark, beds of sea shells were deposited containing
species 18 percent of which today only occur south of the Bay of
Biscay.

There is still considerable controversy as to which of the interglacial
epochs these finds should be referred; so that we do not know whether
all the interglacial epochs had warmer and wetter conditions than are
experienced today. But there can be no doubt that in one or more
of the interglacial epochs the climate not only returned to present-day
conditions but also became warmer and wetter.

Outside the areas which were invaded by the ice—the so-called
glaciated regions—we must look to other records than those of ice to
give us information regarding the changes of climate which occurred
294. . ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938

there during the advance and retreat of the ice. In nonglaciated
regions it is difficult to find traces of changes of temperature; but
changes in rainfall leave clear records in river deposits and in the
levels of lakes with small or no outlets. From such evidence there is
no doubt that there were long and pronounced periods of heavy
rainfall during the Pleistocene Period in practically all parts of the
world.

In North America the Great Basin, which is now an arid, sandy
desert, was full of water, and the small existing intensely salt lakes
were vast sheets of water to which the names Lake Bonneville and
Lake Labontan have been given. According to Gilbert and Russell,
these lakes were twice filled during the Pleistocene Period, thus
indicating that in North America there were two pluvial periods.

Wayland has reached the conclusion that in Uganda there have been
two pluvial periods, one near the beginning of the Pleistocene Period
and one toward the end; between these two pluvial periods the cli-
mate was much drier than it is today. Huzayyin has also recognized
two major pluvials during the Pleistocene in southwest Arabia.?

Pluvial periods were not confined to tropical and subtropical regions,
for in the Swanscombe Gravels we have evidence of a much greater
Thames than exists today. The Corbicula fluminaris contained in
these gravels show that they were laid down during an interglacial
epoch when the temperature was considerably higher than at present.

Practically all deserts such as the Sahara, Libyan, and Kalahara
show signs of water action in relatively recent times, and many of
them are littered with the flint tools of prehistoric man, showing that
in the latter half of the Pleistocene Period they supported sufficient
animal life to make them good hunting grounds.

It is probably too early to say definitely that in all parts of the world
there were two pluvial periods, but the evidence is very strong, es-
pecially in North America and Africa.

The climatic conditions during the Pleistocene Ice Age may be
summed up as follows:

The Pleistocene Ice Age did not consist of a simple advance and
retreat of the ice but of a sequence of glacial and interglacial epochs.
Based on observation in the Alps, there were four glacial epochs
separated by three interglacial epochs. During some at least of the
interglacial epochs the climate was warmer and wetter than today.
In regions not subjected to glaciation there is evidence of two great
pluvial periods, one early and one late in the Pleistocene Period,
separated by a long interval during which there was even less pre-
cipitation than at present.

2 Nature, vol. 140, p. 513, 1937.
ICE AGES—SIMPSON 295

CAUSE OF THE PLEISTOCENE ICE AGE

A very large number of theories have been propounded to explain
the cause of the ice age. It is becoming more and more generally
accepted that no change located in the earth itself—such as a change
in the distribution of land and water—or in the earth’s atmosphere—
such as a change in the amount of carbon dioxide or volcanic dust—
can explain the sequence of climatic changes associated with the
Pleistocene Ice Age, and we are being thrown back onto changes
outside the earth. The most obvious source of climatic change would
appear to be solar radiation. This seems such a simple solution. If
we assume that the sun’s radiation can change, all climates would
appear to become possible; an ice age would be produced by reducing
the radiation and a warm period by increasing it. Unfortunately,
things do not go in this simple way. As the result of a study which
I made a few years ago to find what happens to the solar radiation
when it falls on the earth, and how the earth returns to space the
energy which it receives from the sun, I was led to the conclusion that
the last ice age was not caused by a decrease of solar radiation but
by an increase. I must now try to explain this paradox.

The sun sends out a stream of energy which we call sunshine. The
earth intercepts a quantity of this energy which on absorption warms
up the surface and the atmosphere. If the earth had been a “black
body” it would have warmed up to a temperature, which can be easily
calculated, when it would have emitted just as much radiation as
it received from the sun. In this way the temperature of the earth
would have increased and decreased with an increase and decrease
of the solar radiation. One of the first results of my investigation
was to show that the earth does not react to changes in solar radiation
like a “black body.” I was able to show that if the solar radiation
were to increase, the temperature of the earth’s surface would not
increase to anything like the extent that one would expect from the
increase of solar radiation; but that the cloud would increase and
return the greater part of the additional solar radiation without
warming up the surface of the earth.

In this way the balance between the incoming and outgoing radia-
tion is maintained more by the amount of cloud than by the tempera-
ture. In present conditions just about half the sky is covered by
cloud; the amount is slightly different in the different latitudes, but
not to any large extent. The clouds appear bright because they
reflect the sun’s light. The light which the clouds reflect cannot be
used to warm up the earth; it is just returned to space, and to that
extent the solar radiation is reduced. The amount of solar radiation
returned directly by the clouds has been measured and proves to be
43 percent of the total incoming solar radiation. That is, nearly
296 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938

half the solar radiation which reaches the earth is intercepted and
returned by the clouds without taking any part in warming up the
earth.

We will now consider what happens to the radiation which reaches
the earth. Because of the shape of the earth, more solar radiation
falls per square foot on the surface at the Equator than at the poles.
The Equator is therefore maintained at a higher temperature than
the poles. This difference of temperature causes differences of pres-
sure in the atmosphere, and a circulation of air is set up between the
Equator and the poles. This is called the general circulation of the
atmosphere; and all winds ultimately can be traced back to differences
of temperature, mainly those between the Equator and the poles.

In the course of time the atmospheric conditions reach a steady
state with a certain temperature distribution, a certain amount of
air motion, and a certain amount of cloud, which combined are just
sufficient to cause a balance between the incoming and outgoing
radiation.

Now let us consider what would be the effect of increasing the solar
radiation by a specified amount. At first the increased radiation
would reach the earth’s surface and warm it up, but on account of
the shape of the earth the Equator would be warmed up more than
the poles. Hence, the difference in temperature between the Equator
and the poles would be increased and this would lead to an increase
in the general circulation of the atmosphere. The increased tempera-
ture and the increased wind cause an increase in the amount of water
evaporated from the oceans. This increased water in the atmos-
phere leads to greater formation of cloud and, as the precipitation
must equal the evaporation, to an increase in precipitation also.

The increased cloud, however, reacts on the solar radiation and
reflects an increased proportion of it. The final state is a new balance
between the incoming and outgoing radiation produced mainly by
the increased amount of cloud, the only temperature change being
that necessary to produce the greater amount of cloud.

Different parts of the world will be affected differently by these
changes. In equatorial and temperate regions where the precipita-
tion all falls as rain, the effects of increasing the solar radiation are
simple: there is a slight increase of temperature and a general in-
crease of rainfall. Thus the most important effect of increasing and
decreasing the solar radiation is to increase and decrease the pre-
cipitation, and the two keep step with one another; a period of in-
creased solar radiation is always a period of increased rainfall and
vice versa.

When, however, we approach the poles, where the precipitation
may be either in the form of snow or rain, the conditions are much
more complicated and must be studied in more detail,
ICE AGES—SIMPSON 297

Let us fix our attention on a region where at present the summer
temperature does not rise above the freezing point, so that there is
little or no summer melting of the ice—the Antarctic is such a locality.
Now let the solar radiation increase. In consequence, the precipita-
tion and the mean annual temperature both increase, as indicated by
curve I of figure 3. At first all the precipitation is in the form of
snow, but when the summer temperature approaches the freezing
point—say, at A—some of the summer precipitation falls as rain.
Curve II represents the annual snowfall, and as the radiation increases
beyond the point marked A the curve for snowfall falls increasingly

B
|
1
1
|
!
|
I
i
|
!
i

RADIATION SS

FIGURE 3.—Effect of increasing radiation on precipitation and accumulation of snow.

below the curve for the total precipitation. Curve III represents the
evaporation and summer melting combined. At first there is no
melting, only evaporation, but after A melting becomes more im-
portant, and at B the loss of ice through evaporation and melting
equals the total snowfall. Curve IV in the lower half of the diagram
represents the annual accumulation of snow; it is obviously the differ-
ence between curves II and III. At first, the annual accumulation
of snow is small; as the solar radiation increases, the accumulation of
snow increases until it reaches a maximum, after which it rapidly
decreases, owing to the rapid increase in the amount of melting.
298 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938

Finally, in spite of the greater total precipitation and large annual
snowfall, the melting is so great, especially in the summer, that no
accumulation at all takes place.

Although it may seem strange that an increase of temperature can
produce increased glaciation, it may be demonstrated by a simple
experiment. In four identical glass jars (pl. 1) each containing a
layer of water in the bottom and a metal vessel at the top which can
be cooled by solid carbon dioxide, the water at the bottom represents
the Equator and the metal vessel at the top the polar regions. One
jar (second from the left) contains water at the temperature of the
room and there is an appreciable deposit of ice at the top. By adding
ice to the water in the vessel to the left,equivalent to lowering the
equatorial temperature, the deposit of ice at the top is much reduced.
The water in the third vessel has been warmed by a small gas jet,
and the effect of the heating has been greatly to increase the deposit
of ice. In the fourth bottle the temperature has been raised still
higher, with the consequence that the ice has almost entirely disap-
peared by melting.

These four bottles can be regarded as representing increasing radi-
ation as shown in figure 3. The first bottle has a low temperature
(little radiation) and the ice deposit is thin, corresponding to A on
the diagram. The second bottle has a higher temperature (more
radiation) and therefore corresponds to a point to the right of A on
figure 3 and shows a greater accumulation of ice. The third bottle
represents the conditions where the ice deposit reaches its maximum,
and the fourth bottle represents some point beyond B where the
melting and evaporation exceed the deposit.

The conditions represented by figure 3 and the experiment apply
to the polar regions and high mountains. At first an increase of solar
radiation causes an increased accumulation of snow and ice in spite
of increased temperature. During this stage, ice sheets form and
glaciers advance, giving rise to a glacial epoch. As the radiation
increases still further, the ice melts away and we have overcast skies
and much precipitation but no ice accumulation. When the solar
radiation decreases, conditions are reversed and the whole sequence
is gone through in the reverse order.

Figure 4 has been prepared to show the sequence of changes of ice
and meteorological factors when the solar radiation makes two com-
plete oscillations. The abscissae represent time increasing toward
the right. Curve I represents two complete cycles of solar radiation
and curve II represents the mean temperature of the world as a whole.
Curve III is the curve of precipitation and therefore follows directly
the curve of solar radiation. Curve IV is the curve of snow accumu-
lation. As drawn, it shows some accumulation at the minima of the
solar radiation, but a complete disappearance of the accumulation
Smithsonian Report, 1938.—Simpson PLATE 1

Wty Addddda

-
-
on

“exvaaba

EXPERIMENT TO SHOW HOW INCREASE OF TEMPERATURE CAN PRODUCE
INCREASED GLACIATION.

Temperature at bottom of bottles increases from left to right.
ICE AGES—SIMPSON 299

owing to increased temperature at the maxima of the radiation. The
ice which accumulates year by year in the specified area must escape;
if the area is a mountain top, the escape will be by way of glaciers;
if it is a polar cap, the escape will be by an ice sheet spreading over
the surrounding country. In either case the ice is transported into
regions where the melting is greater than the snowfall, and the greater
the annual accumulation the farther will the ice penetrate, down the
mountain side if a glacier and into lower latitudes if an ice sheet.
Curve V shows the advance and retreat of the ends of the glaciers
or of the front of an ice sheet.

Examining the last curve, we see a close resemblance to Penck and
Briickner’s curve for the height of the snow line in the Alps (fig. 2).
In each there are four advances of the ice. The advances are ar-
ranged in pairs, with short interglacials between the advances in the
pairs, and the pairs separated by a longer interglacial. This arrange-
ment comes from the fact that there are two glacial epochs for each
maximum of the solar radiation. The interglacials have different
climates according as they occur at the maximum or a minimum of
the solar radiation. The former are warm and wet and the latter are
cold and dry. We are at present approaching a minimum of solar
radiation. In consequence our rivers are smaller and our tempera-
ture lower than they were in the last interglacial. We now see why
there were only two pluvial periods in nonglaciated regions for the
four glacial epochs in polar regions and on mountains. If the theory
is correct, the last interglacial—the Riss-Wiirm interglacial—was a
warm one, and to it the evidence for a warm wet climate which I
have described above should belong.

Thus we see how two oscillations of radiation have produced in
nonglaciated regions two pluvial periods, and in glaciated regions four
glacial epochs separated by three interglacial epochs, two of which
were warm and wet and one cold and dry. If the theory is correct
we are now living in a cold dry epoch owing to the decrease of solar
radiation from its last maximum. If the solar radiation again in-
creases, there will be another glacial epoch and our epoch will become
a second cold dry interglacial.

An obvious objection to the explanation of the last Ice Age which
I have given above is that with their present temperatures no amount
of precipitation would result in the formation of an ice sheet over
England and Scotland and still less over Ireland; yet we know that
such ice sheets did exist. The objection is still stronger when it is
remembered that the theory requires the increase ofprecipita tion to
be accompanied by an increase of temperature.

There is another problem which has puzzled everyone who has
studied the cause of the Ice Ages. If we plot on a circumpolar map
300 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938

the limits of the ice sheet, we find that the area covered by the ice
was not concentric with the North Pole. It extended much farther
south over Europe and the east of North America than it did over
Asia and the east of America; in fact the center of the ice sheet was
in the middle of Greenland, 20° of latitude from the Pole.

The answer to both these problems is the same and gives strong
support to the correctness of the theory. If the area around the
North Pole were land instead of sea, we should have at the Pole a
great ice sheet, similar to that over Greenland and the Antarctic,

\ SOLAR RADIATION

TEMPERATURE

J

x z
0 0
= <
9

2 8
au ws
= =
z Zz

WARM - WET

TIME >

FIGURE 4.—Effect of two cycles of solar radiation on glaciation.

rising many thousands of feet above sea level. With increased pre-
cipitation this ice cap would increase in height and extent and grow
symmetrically about the Pole. With the present distribution of land
and sea such a north polar cap is not possible. The ice which forms
in the Arctic Ocean during winter breaks up in the summer and a
certain amount escapes into the North Atlantic Ocean. At the maxi-
mum of a glacial epoch when the coasts around the Arctic Ocean were
under ice, there would be a great flow of ice throughout the year into
the sea. The whole Arctic Ocean would become packed with ice which
would have to find an outlet somewhere. The Bering Strait between
ICE AGES—SIMPSON 301

Asia and America is both narrow and shallow, and no appreciable
amount of ice would escape that way. There was always, however, a
wide, deep connection between the Arctic Ocean and the Atlantic
Ocean between Greenland and Norway. Through this passage ice-
bergs and thick pack ice would move southward, filling the North
Atlantic with ice and lowering the temperature.

Figure 5 has been drawn to illustrate this. The ice-covered area
has been stippled and it will be seen at once that this area is not con-
centric with the Pole. The flow of ice on the land is shown by thin

eel ees flr y
, AN :
Roost S
ty Nera BL?
Mage i Mis

FIGURE 5.—Lines of flow of ice: Thick arrows, floating ice; thin arrows, land ice.

arrows. Ice flows into the Arctic Ocean from the northern coasts of
America and Asia, and moves, as shown by the long thick arrows,
into the North Atlantic, where it is replenished by ice from Greenland
and Norway, and a stream of ice passing down Davis Straits joins it
to the south of Greenland. The whole of the North Atlantic was
filled with ice.

These conditions would have far-reaching effects on the climate of
the British Isles and the adjacent parts of Europe. In the first place
the Gulf drift would no longer exist, so that instead of the western
302 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938

coasts of Kurope being washed by relatively warm water they were
washed by cold seas dotted with ice. In the second place the Ice-
landic depression would either cease to exist or would be displaced
to the south, so that the warm southwesterly winds to which we owe
our mild climate were replaced by cold northwesterly winds. With
these large changes there is no wonder that ice sheets formed on the
British Isles. On the American coast the winds would be northeast
and drive the ice-laden water on to the American coast. Thus
glacial conditions extended far to the south on both coasts of the
Atlantic Ocean. As there was no corresponding flow of ice into the
Pacific Ocean, there was no similar glaciation of the Pacific coasts.

Thus the glaciation of the British Isles and the unsymmetrical
position of the ice sheets relative to the Pole were both due to flow
of ice from the Arctic Ocean into the North Atlantic. If this con-
nection had not existed, the distribution of the ice would have been
quite different.
SOIL EROSION: THE GROWTH OF THE DESERT IN AFRICA
AND ELSEWHERE!

By Sir Dante Hatt, K. C. B., M. A., D. Sc., LL. D., F. R. S., M. R. I.
Director of the John Innes Horticultural Institution; lately Chief Scientific Adviser
to the Minister of Agriculture and Fisheries

[With two plates]

It is a commonplace of geology that the surface of the earth is
constantly in motion—that our mountain ranges have taken shape and
our river courses and valleys have been excavated by the simple
agencies of rain, frost, and wind. But we are accustomed to think of
these agencies as operating over long periods, geological rather than
historic time. Even Darwin’s discovery that earthworms can bury
stones on the surface of pasture land at the rate of an inch in every
4 or 5 years came as a surprise. But in many parts of the world a
much more rapid movement of the surface is going on, with serious
economic consequences to the agriculture of the country—and it is
this form of denudation, that we call soil erosion, with which I propose
to deal tonight.

Usually we regard the soil as something particularly stable, but I
want you to realize that this stability is almost wholly due to its normal
covering of vegetation. By soil we understand the surface layer of
relatively fine-grained material—sand and silt and clay, generally
dark in color through the presence of humus—and traversed by the
roots of the surface vegetation. As a rule the soil proper is not more
than 6 inches to a foot deep; below this the humus becomes small in
amount, though there are a few “black soils,”’ as in Russia or Manitoba,
which are rich in humus to a depth of 4 feet or so, but these are un-
common. But what I would remind you of, even at the risk of being
elementary, is that the fertility of land resides in this surface layer of
soil. The humus supplies the nitrogen, which is the chief element of
plant nutrition, and the phosphoric acid, of almost equal importance,
is chiefly accumulated in the upper soil. It is a fallacy of old standing
that the good earth lies below to be brought up by the man who will
put his plow in deep enough. Nevertheless, there is great virtue in

1 A lecture delivered before the Royal Institution of Great Britain at the weekly evening meeting, Novem-
ber 12, 1937. Reprinted by permission from the pamphlet of the Royal Institution.
303
304 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938

deep cultivation, provided the topsoil is kept on top and the lower
layers are only stirred and broken up.

This being premised, there is always a danger that if the cover of
vegetation is removed the soil itself will begin to move under the
action of either the wind or the rain. Rarely do we see these actions
at work on a large scale in England; the climatic conditions are not
favorable, for our rainfall is gentle and evenly distributed throughout
the year, and our big winds are mostly associated with rain. It is in
semiarid regions where long periods of drought may be followed by
torrential rains that soil erosion becomes an active danger. Still, I
have known cases: some 40 years ago in the Lincolnshire Wolds near
Louth an intense thunderstorm, such as is loosely called a cloudburst,
broke over a steep hillside on the chalk, the grass covering of which
had been broken near the top of the hill by a rabbit burrow. The
rushing rainwater got an entry there and in less than an hour had
stripped the hillside down to the bare chalk. I have known a similar
thunderstorm in Kent to remove 3 feet of soil from the hop garden,
leaving the plants with their network of roots suspended on the super-
structure of wire and string. I have again known a barley crop on the
Surrey sands blown into the hedge after it had become 2 or 3 inches
high. But these are rare instances, which serve only to illustrate the
risk of erosion in countries where our total rainfall of a year may be
concentrated into 1 day, or where scorching winds may obtain a run
of 1,000 miles over the steppe.

The earliest cases of erosion to be noticed are those which follow
deforestation in regions where the mountains in which the rivers take
their rise are below the permanent snow line. In such countries,
typically in the eastern Mediterranean—Calabria, Greece, the greater
part of Asia Minor—the natural sequence is forest on the higher slopes
where the rainfall is greatest, passing into upland meadows as the
slope grows less and finally into river meadows as the river nears the
sea. There is no evidence in support of the belief that forests increase
the rainfall of a country, indeed, by the transpiration from their leaves
they must reduce the total amount of the rainfall retained by the soil,
but they serve as its regulator. The spongy soil below the trees, rich
in humus, absorbs the rain as it falls, whereby it reappears later in
the springs and furnishes the watercourses and rivers when the rainy
season has passed. But too commonly the forests have been cut down
without any regard to their regeneration; not only has the maximum
of timber been cut out but there has also been the desire to extend the
grazing. Grazing is all very well again if regulated, but unfortunately
in these Mediterranean countries goats are among the chief grazing
animals. It is no accident that old tradition has represented the Evil
One with the hoofs of a goat, for of all animals the goat plays the
devil with land. Hungry goats will eat anything that grows; they
SOIL EROSION—HALL 305

destroy every seedling tree as fast as it gets its head up; they complete
and extend the destruction the woodcutters have begun. At the same
time, with their sharp hoofs they break the surface of the soil, in
other places they tread hard paths down which the rain begins to run
with gathering volume and velocity. In a very short time during the
rains gullies begin to form as the soil is washed downhill; year by year
the gullies extend and bite deeper into the earth, until in no long time—
a generation or two—the hillsides that had been forest and upland
meadow get bared down to the hard infertile subsoil or to the rock
itself. Nor does the damage end there; the rainfall, running off the
bared hill country without a check, develops as a torrent lower down,
attacking the meadows bordering its course. The earth also that
has been washed off the hillsides is carried down to the plains where
the rivers lose their velocity; there it deposits and turns the river
into a chain of malarious swamps, it chokes it mouth, and destroys
any harbor that was there. Such has been the history of much of
the fairest land on the seaboard of the Levant; on the heights bare
rock where once forest and meadow flourished, rivers that are torrents
in winter and dry in summer, old seaports no longer accessible. The
‘destruction of the forest was thus a major factor in the decay of
Greece and Rome itself; it meant, in the first place, the loss of farming
land and of the agricultural population which formed the backbone
of the early armies of the republics. With the swamps came the
spread of malaria, which again has been invoked as one of the great
causes of the fall of ancient civilization.

Cogent as have been these lessons, they were not always remem-
bered in the new countries opened up in the nineteenth century.
Forests were destroyed greedily and indiscriminately, but the more
evident consequences have been that the rivers became subject to
violent flooding due to the sudden run-off in the rains, and dams and
irrigation reservoirs began to silt up rapidly. The most spectacular
form of soil erosion is that exhibited by the vast dust storms which in
1934 and 1935 especially swept over the United States east of the
Mississippi. It was no new phenomenon, although before that time
it had not been considered politic to talk about such a blot on pioneer-
ing enterprise in the Middle West. Locally a vast area, which included
western Oklahoma, western Kansas, eastern Colorado, the Panhandle
of Texas, and parts of Wyoming, was known as the ‘‘dust bowl.’
In 1934 it was estimated that on a single day 300 million tons of rich
topsoil was swept as far away as the Atlantic. There is a story that
in the diary of an old Nebraska doctor was found the entry: ‘June
14th. Hot as hell, wind 40 miles an hour, two Kansas farms go by
every minute.”

It is not the United States only that has been suffering thus from
wind erosion; across the northern border the conditions leading to
306 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938

wind erosion are repeated in Saskatchewan and Alberta (pl. 1). I
have myself seen the soil on the move on the great plains, drifts of
sand piled up against fences or any other obstruction, choking the
sunk roads, a most depressing phenomenon, especially when ac-
companied by swarms of grasshoppers, smaller but little less destruc-
tive than the locusts of the Old World. We have similar accounts
from Central Asia of the dust storms and encroachments of drifting
sand in the neighborhood of Bokhara. It has been stated that only
the Caspian Sea has prevented the march of the sand into the fertile
regions of the lower Volga. But of recent years the Soviet engineers
have discovered a means of getting a cover of vegetation again and
so stabilizing the soil.

The causes of this terrible wind erosion are easy to discern. It
arises only in comparatively arid districts where the rainfall is below
the 20-inch level, and (in America, at any rate) where the fundamental
subsoil is of a rather sandy type—a recent glacial drift. Before white
settlement these regions were clothed with grass and were the natural
home of the buffalo. Some of the land was good grazing, with a fair
depth of black soil rich in humus, but in the drier parts the sod was
thin and there were only a few inches of soil. The black soil regions
were fertile and were the first to be broken up; the poorer land was
kept for ranching, healthy for either cattle or sheep if not too closely
stocked. The plow, however, began to encroach upon these thin
soils, with great rapidity when prices of cereals went soaring up from
1917 onward. At first all went well, for the cultivation began in a
cycle of good rainfall seasons, and there was some stock both of humus
in the soil and of accumulated rainfall below. The system of farming
that prevailed was of a wasteful type, a succession of cereals, or wheat
and maize with occasional timothy grass in the better lands of the
Middle West, but wheat and oats year after year in the Canadian
Northwest. The straw was burnt, no stock was kept; a few years of
such mining in the soil with no recuperative crop was enough to
exhaust the limited stock of humus. Then years of drought came
when the original subsoil reserve of water had been used up and the
light soil, no longer bound together either by vegetation or humus,
began to drift in the fierce winds that sweep over those great plains.
The plow had destroyed the binding power of the soil; the wind is
then able to remove the whole of the fertile top layer of soil and leave
nothing but the denser subsoil which is too infertile to carry a crop.
Nor has it been the case that the good soil is merely transferred from
one farm to the next; as a rule in Canada it has been swept right away
into the Great Lakes or the barren lands to their north, or even into
the Atlantic itself.

It is sometimes represented that agriculture has been public enemy
No. 1, as destructive an exploitation as lumbering and more rapid in
SOIL EROSION—-HALL 307

its action. But what the pioneer opening up a new country practices
is rarely agriculture; he breaks up the virgin surface, and not uncom-
monly expects to move on in a few years and make his profit out of
enhanced land values. Itis imperative for him to grow nothing but im-
mediate cash crops, and the process on much of this western land was
of the crudest. Often the farmers, once their crops had been lodged
in the elevators, turned the key in the door and went off to California
until seedtime came round in the spring. There was no livestock on
the farm, no garden round the gaunt frame house, the farmer seemed
to have little thought of making a home, but only of cashing in some
crops and then movingon. The pioneer works with a feeling of infinity
at the back of his mind; there is always more land somewhere. As
one of them is reported to have said to a United States Soil Conserva-
tion officer: ‘I have run through two farms, and I’m getting out of
this. You can’t teach me nothing about farming.’”? Without doubt
much of the poorest of this land ought never to have been plowed, even
in boom times; once the crust has been broken it becomes a sort of
running sore, always eating into the land on its margin. As a ranch
under its natural vegetation it had a modest productive value, and
to that use it must return. But the process of natural regeneration
will take time, a generation perhaps before vegetation will creep over
the barren subsoil to fix the sand and build up some reserve of humus.
Its productive capacity is too low to pay for fertilizers, but a few
plants can be introduced which will colonize the waste and begin to
restore fertility. In the better land which can be made to retain its
productivity under crop, a conservative system of farming must be
introduced in which the cereals will alternate with a cover crop, partly
leguminous, which when grazed will both add humus to stabilize the
soil and collect nitrogen from the atmosphere. We know that many
European soils have been cultivated for 1,000 years or more without
showing any decreased production, by making use of the power of
certain bacteria to fix nitrogen. In China, too, that mother of all
the arts of life, intensive cultivation has been maintained for 2,000,
3,000, perhaps even 4,000 years without soil erosion or loss of fertility.

Of recent years improved methods of cultivation have been intro-
duced to minimize the danger of soil drifting. Since it is inevitable
that at certain seasons of the year, indeed in dry farming areas through-
out a whole year, the soil should be cultivated while bare of a crop,
the practice has been introduced of dividing the land into strips, the
bare land alternating with land under crop in place of the former large
areas under the same treatment. Thus the incipient soil erosion under
the wind is checked before it can proceed far, and a very efficient
measure of protection is attained.

114728—39 21

308 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938

One other major work of reconstruction is needed, though it 1s being
taken in hand on a large scale in the United States, and that is the
establishment of shelterbelts to break up the fierce winds that rage
over these open, treeless spaces. It is not an easy matter to get trees
started, especially in the north in Saskatchewan and Alberta, where
the range of species that will stand up to the extremes of climate is
limited, but a certain number of suitable species have been found.
Besides the regional planting of cross-country belts, farmers are being
taught to protect their own holdings.

So far I have only been describing to you cases where the eroding
agent is the wind on the flat plains, but erosion by rain is even more
common wherever the cultivated land is set on any slope and the
rains are heavy. ‘The danger does not lie in a large annual rainfall;
some of the worst destruction is wrought in regions where a low total
is concentrated into short intense spells. A high rainfall will, as a
rule, generate such a forest vegetation as will protect the soil, though
as tea planters in Ceylon and Assam have found to their cost, any
piece of cultivated soil on a slope is in danger of erosion, sometimes a
slow continuous removal of the good soil, sheet erosion, sometimes a
catastrophic wash-out by gullying. Preventive measures are now
well known; terrace the worst slopes and cultivate along the contour
lines so as to avoid setting up watercourses. The object is to get the
soil to absorb the rain as it falls without giving it a chance to set up a
run over the surface, but in bad cases it may be necessary to break
the contour terraces at intervals with spillways which lead accumu-
lated water into an unobstructed drain or watercourse. Alternatively
where washing is severe, occasional belts of unplowed vegetation
should be left, in order to break any run-off that may have been set
up. By such grading of the slope, coupled with the growth between
the bushes of a temporary crop of some leguminous plant, which can
be dug in so as to add to the stock both of nitrogen and humus, the
tea planters of Ceylon have been able to check soil erosion even with
the excessive rainfall that often prevails there. It should be remem-
bered that such a system of contour terracing has been practiced in
China from time immemorial.

But wherever torrential rains occur there is always the danger of
starting gullies in bare soil. We can see the process operating in
this country when rain falls on any spoil bank or bare cutting; as
soon as the rate of fall becomes sufficient to cause an actual flow of
water at any spot, it acquires an excavating power and begins to cut
a channel in the loose earth, a gully which not only enlarges itself
by the undercutting of its banks but tends to eat its way backward.
Gullying can be initiated either by careless management of culti-
vated soil, or on grassland by overgrazing, which bares the surface.
Even before actual overgrazing sets in, both cattle and sheep will
SOIL EROSION—HALL 309

tread bare tracks along which streams will begin to flow during the
rains and to acquire sufficient velocity to eat into the soil. In how-
ever small a way such gullying starts, if it is not checked it extends
itself from season to season, both fanwise and by eating uphill, until
eventually, by a sort of geometrical progression, the large area may
become impassable to man and beast. Though agriculture generally
is indicted as the initiator of erosion, more properly it is the reckless-
ness or the want of foresight in man that should be blamed.

In a recent book, Rich Land, Poor Land,’ there is an account of a
gully with a history:

The land fell away almost sheer for 200 feet. We stood over one of the gully’s
arms and far down caught a glimse of the central basin. The guide took up the
tale. ‘‘Do you know what started him? A trickle of water running off a farmer’s
barn about 40 years ago. Just one damn little trickle, and now a third of the
county’s gone—40,000 acres.”’

One should realize that in certain regions and climates the soil is
so lacking in any binding power save its skin of vegetation that all
handling of the soil has to be watched with the same sort of com-
munal care that is accorded to fire risks in a crowded city.

Nor is agriculture the only culprit in initiating the destruction of
the vegetation. At a place called Ducktown in Tennessee, a gullied
area has been created through the destruction of the vegetation by
sulphur dioxide from a copper smelter. ‘In a great circle about the
smelter, measuring perhaps 10 miles in diameter, every living thing
had been destroyed by the sulphur fumes.”

The loss of land by soil erosion is not the only loss the community
suffers. The soil that the rain starts moving reaches the rivers and
has to find a resting place somewhere. It is in regions liable to
erosion that irrigation becomes of so much importance, and dams are
thrown across the rivers to store the floodwater of the rains. But no
one had foreseen what masses of sand and silt would begin to choke
the reservoirs when erosion was going on at the headwaters. I quote
from the same book, Rich Land, Poor Land:

Elephant Butte Dam was built by the United States to guarantee New Mexico’s
quota of water “‘forever.”’ ‘‘Forever’’ will end in a few years if the Rio Puerco,
which chiefly ravishes the Rio Grande, is not controlled. Every flood season it
pours 9,000 acre-feet of silt into Elephant Lake.

Even if there are no dams, the eroded material is deposited on the
river flood meadows of the lower valley, a fertilizing deposit as long
as the topsoil is coming down, but as gullying proceeds the river is
laden with larger quantities of the sterile subsoil material. The bed
of the river steadily rises through accretions of silt, and the flood
banks, like the levees of the Mississippi, have to be raised to keep the

2 Chase, Stuart, Rich land, poor land, McGraw Hill Publishing Co., New York, 1936.
310 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938

floodwaters back. You will have noticed how the last Mississippi
flood of 1936 was the wildest and most dangerous of any in the history
of the river, notwithstanding all the protective measures that had
been carried out, simply because the lower river is being raised more
and more above the level of the surrounding country.

A large amount of work is now being done in the United States to
control gullying and to reclaim the devastated land. Intheearly stages
gullying can be checked by throwing dams across the gash, dams
which may be timber or concrete or just bushes, alive or dead, any-
thing that will check the rush of water and cause the sediment to
begin to accumulate. Even more effective has been the introduction
of rapidly growing vegetation, e. g., Kudzu (Pueriana Thunbergiana
hirsuta), a creeping leguminous plant, which not only checks the flow
of water and filters out the silt but binds the earth and stops further
washing, and at the same time gathers nitrogen and begins to build up
a new soil. The Soil Conservation Service in the United States is
bringing into play all the resources of science and engineering to
repair the damage which has been inflicted upon the land of the
United States by hasty exploitation. I would instance again the
Civilian Conservation Corps, that inspiration of President Roose-
velt’s, who in 1932, when the youth of America found no prospect of
employment of any kind on leaving school or college, gathered some
300,000 of them into a service and set them to work to clean up the
countryside. They were turned on to fire-prevention work in the
forests, to checking erosion, to road making and vermin destruction in
the national parks, to various forms of reclamation and salvage work—
the corps itself being the most magnificent piece of human salvage
this generation has known. One cannot but think that it would be
of value to our population if all our young men could be conscripted
for 6 months of their life to carry out public work for the improvement
of our countryside.

The examples of erosion I have been putting before you are all due
to unthinking exploitations of the soil by civilized men. I now want
you to consider what is going on in Africa under native systems of
farming. To begin with, we must realize that none of the African
tribes had arrived at what may be called a “‘conservative’’ system of
farming, such as has been the custom of European races and of many
Asiatics from the earliest times of which we have record. European
farming is essentially founded upon a rotation of crops in which a
recuperative legume like clover or beans finds a place, and in which
again livestock play their part in converting into manure such parts
of the crops, like straw, as are not available for human food, together
with grass and other rough fodder from the uncultivated land. The
African tribes are still in the more primitive stage of “shifting culture.”
The cultivator is allotted a particular plot in the area of jungle or
SOIL EROSION—HALL Bye

bush belonging to his clan; this he, or rather his wives, clear, perhaps
burning off the timber before putting in the crops—millet and now
maize, cassava, yams, etc. In 2 or 3 years the soil begins to become
exhausted or weeds become intractable, whereupon the plot is aban-
doned and a new piece is taken up. The abandoned plot soon covers
itself with the natural vegetation and in course of time, perhaps 10,
perhaps 30 years, recovers sufficiently to be ready to take into cultiva-
tion again. Thus the tribe requires many times as large an acreage
of land as is actually in cultivation at any one time, and if the tribe
is increasing in numbers they will be eating pretty steadily into hitherto
unoccupied grassland or forest. One other feature is of importance;
the Bantu tribes who predominate in Kast Africa attach the greatest
value to livestock, particularly to cattle. Cattle represent wealth
and position, they are intimately bound up in tribal custom with the
marriage ceremonies, indeed they enjoy a definitely religious status.
They are the essential consideration that has to be tendered for a
wife. But they serve little or no economic purpose. They are not
eaten except ceremonially, by many tribes they are not milked, they
are not beasts of burden, neither is their dung used as manure. Sheep
and goats are in the same category, they are less sacred and less val-
uable, their only economic product is their skins for clothing. In
one sense cattle are money, but they are also something more than
pecunia; every native is anxious to increase the number he owns, for
on that depends his credit in the tribe. Of course, there are other
tribes like the Masai who are pastoralists, not cultivators, and who
live largely upon animal food, in the case of the Masai upon milk and
blood. These tribes maintain large herds of cattle and goats and
shift their location seasonally with the grazing; what little cultivation
goes on within their reserves used to be carried out by dependent men
of other tribes. Nowadays, however, cultivation is increasing.

Consider the consequences—within this century British rule has
maintained peace among the tribes, and with the cessation of raiding,
numbers have been rising steadily. According to census returns,
the native population in the Union of South Africa has doubled in the
last 50 years; in Basutoland the estimated population multiplied four-
fold between 1879 and 1921. In Kenya the annual rate of increase is
estimated at about 1% percent, which means doubling the numbers in
46 years, and similar estimates are made for the Nandi tribes in the
Kavirondo, and for the Uganda population. These increases are, of
course, not universal, for the Masai seem to be shrinking, as do the
northern Nigerian tribes, where the spread of the desert has become
marked. There are other cases of dwindling populations, some of
which may be ascribed to maladministration without due regard to
the interests of the natives.
312 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938

The increase of human population has been accompanied by an
even greater increase in the numbers of livestock, which in the old
days had been effectively kept under by raiding. ‘“‘What are you
looking at?” said a district officer, who had climbed up to the crest
of the great Nandi escarpment, to two old chiefs he found gazing down
at the plain of the Nyanza. ‘Our cattle,’ was the answer, with a
wave of the hand toward a settlement of one of the weaker tribes below.
But with these checks gone, the animal population has outgrown the
means of sustenance, and even in some districts is destroying the
vegetation in uncultivated areas, which should be regenerating against
their turn to be brought into cultivation. The Native Economic
Commission of South Africa, reporting in 1932, stated: ‘‘With the
exception of certain parts of Zululand and Pondoland, every native
area is overstocked,” and estimates that between 1918 and 1930
cattle increased from seven to seventeen hundred thousand, and sheep
from two and one-fourth to nearly four million. The Kenya Land
Commission, reporting in 1933, wrote: ‘Probably about 1920 the
main stock areas of the native reserves had attained their optimum
carrying capacity, and although fully stocked, were not overstocked.
Since then the cattle population has, roughly speaking, doubled itself.”’
Again of the Kamba reserve:

Mr. Scott Little estimates that the reserve contains 190,000 cattle, with 57,000
calves, though he estimates its grazing capacity at no more than 60,000 head.
There are also 260,000 goats and 150,000 sheep. <A journey through the area
east and south of Machakos reveals that over large stretches of hillsides vegetation
has been almost wholly removed. The soil has been eroded down to the subsoil,
and its removal will continue at an ever-increasing rate. On less steep slopes
and on better land vegetation still persists; and though the Wakamba are pri-
marily a pastoral tribe, patches of cultivation are in evidence. But even there
grazing has been so persistent that the ground is all beaten down into little stock
paths and has become in turn open to erosion.

I have been over this area and seen the hillsides bared down to the
yellow, red, and purple hardpan, where within the memory of the
headmen with whom we talked there had been useful grazing.

A Basutoland report states:

Overgrazing has so far failed to destroy the grazing on the lower levels, up to,
say, 7,500 feet, but above that level the concentration of stock driven out from
the lower levels has resulted in the replacement, over some hundreds of thousands
of acres, of the grass by the almost inedible Chrysocoma, commonly known as
“Bitter Karoo.”’

Mr. Hobley, giving evidence about Tanganyika, said: ‘“The native
occupier, if space permits, moves on, leaving exhausted soil and desert
behind him.”’ Professor Stebbing has uttered strong warnings of the
encroachment of the Sahara upon northern Nigeria, due to shifting
cultivation and overstocking in the forest. Major Grogan put the
matter brutally when he said before the Kenya Land Commission:
SOIL EROSION—HALL aaa

“The African people have never established a symbiotic relationship
with land. They are, in the strict scientific sense, parasites on the
land, all of them;’” and in another place he speaks of flying over central
Africa and picking out the eroded areas by their color.

These instances will suffice; over a large part of Africa—the eastern
side from the Abyssinian frontier down to the Cape, Uganda, and
parts of Nigeria, everywhere indeed except in the tropical rain forest
of the western seaboard and interior—conditions are such as render
erosion by washing a danger. Under cultivation the humus of the
soil rapidly becomes exhausted, the climate produces recurrent
periods of drought broken by rainfalls of fierce intensity. You have
further a native population practicing a destructive form of agricul-
ture and keeping a vast uneconomic head of stock, including the
devastating goat in large numbers; they are eating rapidly into such
forest areas as are left open (pl. 2). Small wonder that famine is
never far away from some of the tribes, that the major political issue
between native and white man is the cry for more land. Yet even
if there were more land to give, the day of reckoning would only be
deferred, the new land would only be eaten up in its turn; the native
must either change his methods or limit his numbers. Indeed the
situation has even now gone so far that from time to time the Gov-
ernment has to import food to save a tribe from starvation, and the
problems of native unrest and land hunger begin to press on the white
community. African soil was never rich nor presented that reserve
of easily exploited fertility that has been the wealth of both North
and South America ;it is also, as no other country, a reservoir of diseases
of man, animals, and plants. Soil erosion has been developing for
years without attracting very much notice, and has now reached the
stage when the growth of the desert may speed up catastrophically.

It is but recently that the dangers of erosion in Africa have come
to be realized. When I was in Africa in 1929 I saw how contour
cultivation and recuperative grassland was being introduced into the
farming of the Cape Province, and the Drought Investigation Com-
mission of 1923 had references to erosion. The problem of over-
stocking was preeminently before me on the Kenya Agricultural
Commission, but the widespread extent of erosion was only made
evident in later reports, such as that of the Native Economic Com-
mission of South Africa in 1932, the Basutoland Enquiry, and the
Kenya Land Commission of 1933. The Basutoland report shows
that the administration had begun to take measures for the regenera-
tion of wasted areas, but now it is evident that all the African colonies
have become erosion conscious, as may be seen from Sir Frank Stock-
dale’s report on his recent tour through Africa. Thanks to him, I
shall be able to show you a number of photographs of the methods
that are being adopted.
314 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938

Much yet remains to be done before the arrears of years of misuse
of the soil can be repaired and before the native population can be
educated to systems of farming which will maintain the fertility of
the land. Not only have drastic changes in native custom to be
brought about, but in many cases expenditure is called for which
can hardly be found within the limited resources of the particular
colony.

The regeneration of wasted areas must begin with closing them
for a time to grazing, so as to allow the return of natural vegetation;
if the land has not been very badly denuded, recovery is rapid; but
in some cases it may be necessary to introduce specially useful plants,
like the stoloniferous grasses so characteristic of South Africa. A
certain amount of minor engineering is needed to check run-offs and
dongas by dams or plantations. Some of the photographs I have
show how successful such measures have been at no great cost.
Measures to deal with the invading weeds like Striga in central
Africa or the Chrysocoma of the south are still lacking. At the same
time cultivators, both natives and white settlers, are being taught
the virtues of contour plowing and planting, and of vegetation strips
in cultivated land to break up run-off.

Such measures, however, do not touch the major cause of erosion—
overstocking. There legislative action is necessary to compel a
reduction in the head of stock. The native chiefs giving evidence
before me on the Kenya Agricultural Commission agreed that Gov-
ernment regulations to this effect would be carried out, but that
without an ordinance the chiefs themselves would be unable to
enforce restriction. However, the drastic culling that is called for
must be done by way of purchase, and since the animals which would
first be drafted are practically valueless for food, one or more meat
factories would be required to turn the carcasses into manure and
then into successively better products as the quality of the culls
improved. One such factory was in operation in Tanganyika, from
the working of which one learned that the initial capital requirement
is large and that in its early years the enterprise is not likely to pay
its way. But a reduction in the numbers of cattle or sheep to one-
half or so would not only relieve the pressure on the land, but would
give the native owners some chance of improving quality both by
selection and better feeding, whereas at present numbers alone are
valued. Education should also proceed to induce the natives to use
cattle economically for milk or meat and for traction, or at least to
sell them for food. One cannot, however, get away from the fact
that forcible limitation of the head of stock a man may hold is a
grave interference, not only with tribal custom but also with the
dignity of individuals. I am still attracted by the idea of a special
SOIL EROSION—HALL 315

token currency for the purchase of native livestock, something that
might be made a visible display of wealth and status.

Even more fundamental must be the education of the natives te
adopt a conservative system of farming—a rotation that would
include leguminous crops and so help the native dietary as well as
restore nitrogen to the soil. Compost making is another method of
maintaining fertility which is being taught to the natives. The
African cannot increase, cannot even maintain, his present numbers
unless he learns how to use his plot of land so that it will continuously
produce food. Demonstrations have shown how it can be done, but
it will need both a strengthening of the agricultural staff and years of
effort before the improved practices are taken up.

But it is difficult to speak temperately of the urgent need for effort
in this direction on a large scale. Many of the tribes are on the verge
of starvation, the desert is growing apace, and as the cropping or
grazing area shrinks, the pressure upon it becomes greater and
destruction proceeds at a compound-interest rate.

The responsibility for action lies not only on the colonial govern-
ments but on the British Government itself. It has declared itself
trustee for the native populations; it must save them from them-
selves. Other nations are demanding colonies in Africa as sources
of raw materials and as openings for colonization, but as soon as one
gets away from the few mineral areas, African land affords little
opportunity of exploitation and will indeed only continue to exist
productively if its overlords adopt and persist in a self-denying policy
, mi tf
u fe AW itt He HO
ea ep aot is e oa z aa ihe iad pers
Med git AN e ‘WeOnGaT ets vis
| any if re “Siiendy ?
' ge ner vallivedl na

ni iss pest ae ehh rverrs hs wre vite jauee
. Bua $y hyp iy ay +; "yeihy! ie Wik uy by ‘Hist tech ay ab
Hil Aote iy i pai Gat iirc! naicifaipaw tondaeD ones
pi Wate ree salt i wits tT Re Citury sar Fate
NE Siem ba Reigitt oF Bay ott Hah 1b oT age
4 i cai ey pigedy “uRY

~

: ay rota 3} in A [i é

if moral Aataie red) a re
mol. ered atenet OT a) ite ay oon ne a te
Ho ER Wie ut iin

Nay a U
are oa

¥

|  hetienn be io WW bed a Berets ¢} whine Rees
mee ree sey eu een =P ile. on i Lee bya Teta % ‘ei
4, i '. ‘git ee u ( am é ha reo . hs ni o ; : a eh 7
Sh i Ly Maines Rae na ee hi tee
aMeaynl Vie Dea ee liek fy teh )
rar, ts a8 aster” aeidy yelled’ a
patie mls is ony: ae : ~ hak tha 3 dis

(842110 ‘suTydoH ‘gq Iq Aq ydeis0joyq)

‘podopuRe Wooq sey WIR oy} puR ‘ssUIplINg ay} punore doap yaa] ¢ 07 ¢ payyiap sey pues ayy,
“NVYVMAHOLYHSYS NYalSaAMHLNOS NI Sv 10VD YVAN SONILAIWG TWIOS AYsAgaS

$d ere}
ean HAA Sama TOF

Ce ~

etary

(7H— 861 “qaoday ueruosyzIwig

(IqomeN fainqpnowsy jo Jueujieded ‘yey U[oD Aq ques ‘sourvg “wy Aq ydeis0j04 dq)
“AAYASSY NANYIM

*93BIS JVB] OL ‘f *s00]G40d I0}J BuLIBO[D VY °*Z *4so10} poyonojuy “T

@ 31V 1d IP H— 861 ‘qiodayy ueruosy}Wg
THE FUTURE OF PALEONTOLOGY !
By JosrpH, A. CuSHMAN

In these days the man of science holds an enviable position. His
outlook on the world in general, so far as his scientific point of view is
concerned, is not dimmed by the terrors of war, by changing political
trends, nor by recessions of the business world. True, all of these
may limit his productivity or actually interfere with his work. Never-
theless, he has a grasp on the laws of the universe which are unaffected
by any of these changing conditions. He needs no appeal to a court,
for the laws with which he deals are the eternal verities. So in the
shifting sands of the human world and the ebb and flow of man-made
tides he may feel sure of the ground on which his science is based,
knowing that its laws will be operating when all these other temporary
troubles are long forgotten.

To the astronomer who deals with the whole universe and whose
time basis is one of light-years, such trivialities as the rise and fall of
dynasties or the wars of races on this small planet of ours are of little
consequence when he looks out upon ordered worlds each true to its
own pathway through space. So, too, other sciences are based upon
less broad a field, but their vastness is such that one may at least
temporarily broaden his outlook from the world about him and turn
back the records of time to other worlds long passed away.

To the paleontologist is given a rare privilege, for his is the steward-
ship of the oldest book of records that we possess, the book which con-
tains all that we know of the progress of life upon this planet of ours.
True, the book has had very hard usage and is imperfect. Many of
its pages are badly torn and blotted; others have later records written
across a page of earlier ones, so that it is difficult to trace the written
lines. Many of its pages are entirely missing. Nevertheless, this is
the only record of the past life of the world and as such is beyond price.

Given into his hands, it is the sacred duty of the paleontologist to
study the pages with the utmost care, to translate the hidden meanings,
to fill in to the best of his ability the blurred lines, and, wherever
possible, to replace the missing pages.

1 Address as retiring president of the Paleontological Society, 1937. Reprinted by permission from the
Bulletin of the Geological Society of America, vol. 49, pp. 359-366, March 1, 1938.
Sill7/
318 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938

In imagination at least, the paleontologist may review the wonder-
ful pageant of the past life of this world of ours. His reviewing stand
is placed on the ocean border high enough above the water so that he
may have a clear view of its depths. Here pass before him all the
marine creatures from the single-celled primitive animals to the
starfish, the brachiopods, the bizarre forms of the trilobites, huge
ammonites, and many other creeping and crawling animals. Then
come strangely shaped fishes in the armor of medieval knights and
other swimming forms so unlike any living today that they must be
seen to be believed. Then, creeping out onto the land, which, while
he has been fascinated by the marvels of the sea, has become covered
by vegetation, come strange creations. They are leaving the teeming
sea and venturing out to a new life upon the land. Soon he sees them
developing varied forms, upon the surface and in the air as the first
insects fly about the strange trees and plants of this primitive world.
Later the reptiles develop and dominate land, sea, and air, with the
huge winged Pterodactyls perhaps resembling flights of modern air-
planes. The birds and mammals follow and, in turn, dominate air
and land. Gradually, modern vegetation appears, and the world
looks very much as it does today. ‘The stage is set for the appearance
of primitive man. As the animals and plants show their evolution,
the paleontologist studying the early races of men becomes an anthro-
pologist, and digging into his buried cities changes to an archeologist,
and so to the historian.

With all this pageantry of the past, the field for the present-day
paleontologist, what of the future of the science?

It may well follow three distinct but related fields: First, that of
the paleontologist in his own realm; second, the relationships to the
other sciences, particularly geology, where it may contribute much;
and, third, as a practical aid to the development of man’s economic
life. Some suggestions at least will be given for all three of these
fields.

The base on which to build our knowledge of the animals and plants
of the past must rest upon the remains that are left to us in the
deposits of past ages. To make these available for the studies of
others, the fossils must be collected, described, and illustrated. This
is the chore work that must be done in detail, and eventually must
cover the entire surface of the globe and the vertical section of the
sedimentary rocks of all ages. In the last century and a half, great
progress has been made along these lines, but immense areas of the
earth are yet to be explored. These will fill in many details of the
picture which are now lacking. In the future we may expect explora-
tions and development will render accessible to paleontologists rich
collections from the unknown parts of Asia, Africa, the Americas,
and Australia. These will not only add immensely to the known
FUTURE OF PALEONTOLOGY—CUSHMAN 319

fossil faunas and floras of past ages, but will make possible a much
greater clarity of vision in making the past live again.

For all the great progress in the past, the paleontologist of the
future should be especially trained and educated. Perhaps too often
in the past paleontology has been merely a side issue, particularly as
it is used by a geologist who has looked for fossils to give him a clue
to the age of the formations with which he was working. The fossils
meant simply marks or forms in the rocks, to which he attached names
for future reference in correlation.

As an ideal, the paleontologist of the future should be trained as a
zoologist or botanist or both, so that he may be familiar with the ani-
mals and plants of the present day. With this background he will
be ready to understand the relationship, structure, and development
of the animals and plants whose remains he finds in the rocks. They
will represent definite characters which will allow him to classify and
deal with them in their true zoological or botanical relationships.
With such a training, the future paleontologist will have full knowledge
of types of plants or animals with which he works and can visualize
the living forms from the fossil remains that he has before him.

With greater ease of travel, and larger collections from all parts of
the earth, the specialist in any group will be able to consider it as a
whole, trace its evolution throughout geologic time, and chart its
migrations. Although faunal study of small areas will necessarily
precede, we may look forward to the time when a comprehensive study
of a group from all parts of the world will be possible and a much
fuller understanding of its developments and relationships will be
achieved than can be attained at present. As wider collections are
made, many of the gaps that now exist will be filled in and the missing
links in much of the evolutionary history of plants and animals will
be discovered to make a complete whole.

Although the biologist dealing with life processes gives us much
information on the actual working of evolution, it is the paleontol-
ogist who must, by a study of the records of the past, bring to light
the pathways that evolution has taken up to the present. For the
best realization of these, the paleontologist will collect not only the
adult stages characteristic of the species but all the developmental
stages possible as well, to give a complete series.

Material for the study of the more detailed problems of evolution
may be found in many surface outcrops, but complete sections, several
hundreds of feet in length or even much longer, may be obtained by
the use of cores. Those who have worked with the microfossils of
such cores must have been aware of the changes that take place in a
single species during the deposition represented by the core or that
part of it in which the species occurs. The relationships of species
and their derivation, one from another, by the incoming of new charac-
320 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938

ters, may be very well seen in the close study of such cores. This line
of attack on the problems of evolution will be more and more available
to the paleontologist of the future. Core drilling for economic prob-
lems is rapidly increasing, and several depositories already are avail-
able for the preservation of selected cores. If additional cores for
which there is no storage room could be sampled and washed so as to
be stored in a smaller space, the microfossils at least would be available
for future workers after exhaustion of the petroleum or other resources
made core drilling no longer of economic interest in that particular
region. Itis to be hoped that many of the samples now in laboratories
connected with petroleum companies may be preserved elsewhere
when they are no longer of value to the company. ‘Thus, the future
worker may have available a treasure house of material which to
duplicate would be an expensive undertaking.

Similar cores of short length have recently been taken both in the
Atlantic and in the Pacific Oceans by quite different methods and for
purely scientific purposes. Through the study of their microfossils,
much has already been learned of changes in conditions during Pleisto-
cene times. Also, it will be possible by a continuation of such methods
to learn much of the sediments and even of outcropping formations
now deep in the oceans. In time, when methods shall have been
developed for taking much longer cores, it will be possible to study
the fossil content of areas otherwise entirely unavailable. The possi-
bility of core study has much ahead for the future paleontologist.

As material from cores should be preserved whenever possible, so
outcrops, particularly of type localities from which many species have
been described, might also be a matter of consideration for preserva-
tion. A few localities, especially noteworthy for their vertebrate
fossils, have been made into State parks or national monuments. It
is possible that other localities or outcrops should be preserved in like
manner. The famous Eocene locality at Grignon in France is now
preserved and the fossils taken carefully, so that full use is made of
them. Certain localities near State or other universities might be
preserved in this way with little cost and be made a source of great
scientific value to future paleontologists.

A beginning has been made in a few museums to show to the public,
groups representing fossil animals and plants in their probable rela-
tionships when living. It would seem an excellent opportunity for
making an educational contribution to the general public if more
museums would take up this work. With modern methods of group
presentation as shown in many museums, it should be possible to make
groups to show some of the characteristic animals and plants of geo-
logic periods in a series that would be of real interest, and make more
alive the facts of paleontology and evolution. This should be a
great field of opportunity for paleontologists of the future to recon-
FUTURE OF PALEONTOLOGY—CUSHMAN 321

struct the life of earlier ages, so that it may become real to many
interested, but nonscientific, persons to whom otherwise the fossil
record would be an unopened book.

Palececology is a fairly new word, but it stands for what should be
an excellent field for the well-trained paleontologist of the future.
The study of the environment in which the fossil animals and plants
lived and their relationships to one another and to their surroundings
is a fascinating one. The student of palececology must have a broad
knowledge of the ecology of living plants and animals before he can
begin to grasp the relationships of those of the past. It will be a
test of the imagination, under control of what is already known, to
make these fossil animals and plants live again in their own environ-
ment, to explain their structural adaptations and their interrelation-
ships with one another. This will give to the future worker data for
the explanation of the rapid extinction of species, and even whole
faunas, and the appearance of others to take their places. The many
unusual forms, so unlike those of today, may be found to be equally
well fitted to special conditions very unlike our own.

The study of environmental conditions will probably help to explain
the great migrations of animals that have taken place in past geologic
ages whose paths are only obscure as yet. The future collections of
Africa and Asia will undoubtedly give us detailed information of the
path of migration of those elements of the Miocene and Recent faunas
of Australia that are so closely allied to those of the Eocene of the
Paris Basin and to the Oligocene of the Gulf Coastal region of the
United States, to cite a single example.

From a study of these migrations and distributions, decided aid
should be given toward the study of paleogeography. Knowledge
of the distribution of animals and plants is of great value in deter-
mining the distribution of land and water areas in past ages. When
the ecologic factors are better known, it will be possible to give more
definitely the depth of water and relative direction of shore lines
from any particular area, and the distribution of fossil pelagic for-
aminifera may give a clue to the extent and direction of ocean currents
of the past.

In the field where paleontology has been most useful, that of an
aid to the stratigraphic geologist, the future will add much in detail
to what is already known. More cooperative work will be done to
give illustrated works of entire faunas of key beds so that all the
elements of the fauna will appear in a single volume or a series of
volumes instead of having the information scattered as it is today.
Such a series would be of inestimable value to the geologist as well
as the paleontologist, and it is not too early to plan for the cooperative
effort to produce such works. It will take the earnest and combined
efforts of many workers to make possible such standard works, but
322 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938

it will help greatly to lessen the confusion that arises when formations
are encountered, and the scattered or unavailable literature is not
at hand for aid in placing them in proper position in the section.

Efforts should be gradually made to correlate more closely the
faunas occurring under different ecologic conditions but of contem-
poraneous age. The faunas of shallow littoral waters are usually
very different from those of even moderately deeper water. Where
beds cannot be traced over long distances, and changes in sediments
occur, due to differences in depth, correlation is difficult. The
student of palececology should find studies along this line fascinating
to himself and the results very useful to the geologist and stratig-
rapher. It is very probable that some of the present-day contro-
versies over the relative ages of different beds might be easily and
definitely settled if such ecologic factors were better known. There
are examples in our sections where fossils of one group of animals
seem to indicate a different relationship than those shown by other
animal groups. A closer cooperation of workers on different zoologic
divisions will probably show that one group was more rapidly changing
under the particular environmental conditions, and that, under
certain conditions, greater weight should be given to one group than
to another. Very much is to be learned by the paleontologist of the
future along these and related lines.

In the realm of economic geology, paleontology, especially micro-
paleontology, has demonstrated great usefulness. Particularly in
petroleum discovery and recovery, the microfossils have been of
inestimable value. Their usefulness has been due to their immense
numbers, especially the foraminifera, and the fact that their small
size allows them to be recovered unharmed by the process of drilling.
The rapid changes in characters in the foraminifera and the large
number of species usually present in a relatively small sample make
them especially valuable for correlation purposes. The use of micro-
fossils for correlation is already widespread in the search for oil.
Shallow core drilling to determine subsurface structures is now used to
a great extent. Where no surface outcrops allow the field geologist
a clue to what is beneath, this method opens up a relatively inex-
pensive method of revealing subsurface structures.

The value of such work depends upon the extent to which the micro-
faunas of the beds of the section are known. Particularly where sub-
surface faulting must be accurately located as in some of the areas of
Texas, the point of change of faunas must be recognized within very
narrow limits. Keen discrimination and an intimate knowledge of the
various faunas are necessary for success in this rapidly growing field.
A large part of this information, and the material upon which it is
based, is not generally available, but is kept in the files of different
companies who are operating in these fields. Such information should
FUTURE OF PALEONTOLOGY—CUSHMAN 323
be preserved, so that the scientific results will not be lost, and have to
be later obtained with much effort. Cooperation between the scien-
tific staffs of various oil companies is much more in evidence than it
was even a few years ago. If this scattered information could be
gathered together and gradually published, with the necessary illus-
trations, it would be of immense help to all those seeking data along this
same line. If some organization connected with petroleum work
could sponsor such a program of cooperative studies, the results would
be of immense practical value.

Much of the future work and the rapidity of progress in paleon-
tology, as in all other lines of human endeavor, depends greatly upon
organization and cooperation. In this way, waste of effort through
unnecessary duplication will be avoided. The individual worker in
his chosen field will feel the stimulation that results from his knowing
that what he does is part of a whole which he himself can see in its
entirety.

Under capable leadership, it will be possible to correlate various
groups of workers so that the fossils of the various parts of the geologic
time scale will be illustrated, described, and their distributions, ecology,
and relationships known in a series of well-thought-out volumes, which,
although they will be added to as progress continues, should be, never-
theless, sufficiently exhaustive so as to be standard works for a long
while to come.

An added service that has been attempted on a small scale is the
distribution of collections of fossils either as duplicates or in the way
of casts. This work has been done to some degree by the United
States National Museum, so that casts or duplicates are available
for many of the elements of Old-World faunas for comparison with
our own. From type localities, as already mentioned, collections
could be made which would be of great value in exchanging with other
institutions. Individuals, especially those working with microfossils,
can send paratypes of their species to widely scattered museums, or
to other workers, who could reciprocate and make a first-hand knowl-
edge of their material possible.

With many of the older species, poorly illustrated and inadequately
described as they often were, an attempt should be made to refigure
and redescribe the species from the actual type specimens where they
are still extant. Much confusion would be eliminated by this relatively
simple undertaking.

It is to be hoped that many similar plans to carry on the future
work of paleontology will suggest themselves to the workers in this
science. Progress will continue to be made, but it will be more
rapid and more sure if greater cooperation among paleontologists can

114728—39——22
324 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938

be assured and if better methods can be found for publishing their
works and of making these works more available.

To these young men and women who are hesitating in the choice
of a future career, that of the research worker is here recommended
for consideration. It means a lifetime of devotion to a cause which
probably will bring neither fame nor fortune. One who chooses it
must find most of its rewards within himself. He must leave the
easy highways of the valley and be prepared to climb, first, the
winding mountain roads that others before him have graded and made
easy, then the upper mountain trails with occasional vistas that will
give him a promise of what is ahead if he continues to climb. Finally,
he will come out onto the bare, wind-swept, rock ledges above the
timber line, marked only by rock cairns of those who have ventured
before him. The broadened view may hold him for a time, but he
will surely feel the urge to press on to the eternal snows of the moun-
tain peak ahead. There, he will find no trail to guide him, and he
must push on through the fresh snow, leaving behind footprints for
others to follow if they will. He knows well that he will never reach
the summit, but the urge to go forward is all-compelling. When he
has gone on to the limit of his strength and sinks down on the snow-
fields, he will feel within him, whether the world says ‘“‘Well done”’
or not, that he has been true to the inner urge of his own soul and his
reward is in the knowledge that he has carried the standard of science
a little further into the unknown.
THE METEOROLOGY OF GREAT FLOODS IN THE EASTERN
UNITED STATES!

By CuHar.es F. Brooks and ALtrrep H. THIESSEN

During January 1937 a standing high-pressure area in the south-
western North Atlantic sent steamy tropical air into the United
States day after day, which, on meeting a persistent flow of polar
air in a nearly stationary southwest-northeast belt, precipitated
phenomenal rainfalls. Locally exceeding 20 inches, the rains ex-
tended across the lower Mississippi and almost simultaneously over
the entire Ohio Basin. Dammed by the flooded lower Mississippi,
the Ohio River became a lake, 15 miles wide in some places, and nearly
10 feet above the highest stages previously known. All the river
cities, except Cairo, were partially submerged; one-sixth of Cincinnati
was under water, one-half of Evansville, and more of Louisville.
The inundation of Louisville drowned several persons and caused an
estimated monetary loss of $200,000,000: that the loss of life was
not very much greater was owing to the extraordinary service of the
local radio station WHAS. In 5 days this station broadcast 16;500
separate appeals for help. The calls were heard on sound trucks
at the shore and on radio-equipped boats that were thus able to effect
the removal of at least 58,000 persons from their flooded homes.?
The January rainfall at Louisville was 18.8 inches, of which 10.31
fell in the 5-day period January 20-24. The death toll for the whole
flood was 137, as compiled by the American Red Cross.? The number
injured was 544; but 16,445 individuals had to be hospitalized. Over
the 12,721 square miles affected, 1,495,287 people were directly sub-
jected to the flood, and 1,062,661 of these were completely dependent
on the Red Cross for every primary necessity of life; 155,134 families
required rescue from the flood, transportation to dry ground, and
immediate food and shelter; they were taken care of in 1,575 refugee
centers and tent cities; 73,817 other families required food and
clothing. Financial assistance in rehabilitation was later required

1 Reprinted by permission, with additions and revisions, from The Geographical Review, vol. 27, No. 2,
April 1937, with some substitutions and addenda by the authors. The assistance of officials of the U. S.
Weather Bureau and the American Red Cross in supplying helpful information is gratefully acknowledged.

1 Bauman, Wm., Narrative ofa flood refugee; Carleton, H. B., A boatman’s story, Dixiana, vol. 1, pp. 3-17,
1937; and Breaux, G. A., in Filson Club Hist. Quart., April 1937.

3 The Ohio- Mississippi Valley flood disaster of 1937, report of relief operations of the American Red Cross.
ARC 977, 252 pp., illus., bibliog., Washington, D. C., 1938.
325
326 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938

by 97,247 of these families. Private contributions of cash and
supplies to the American Red Cross totalled $28,000,000; while the
Federal Government spent $13,000,000 and loaned $7,000,000. A
conservative estimate of the flood cost is $417,000,000, not including
the value of some 300,000,000 tons of top soil that the Soil Conserva-
tion Service estimates was carried away from the Ohio watershed.
The flood of 1937 must be considered the greatest American flood on
record.*

This unprecedented flood on the Ohio and lower Mississippi Rivers,
coming so soon after the extraordinary floods of March-April 1936
in the middle and north Atlantic States, compels an examination of
the relation of floods to weather in an effort to solve or mitigate their
menace. What are the meteorological features of previous great
floods, such as those of 1913, 1922, and 1927 in the Mississippi Basin;
of still earlier general floods, such as those of 1882, 1889, 1903; of the
less widespread but remarkable overflows that followed excessive
rains in July 1985, November 1927, July 1916, and June 1915? What
flood-control measures do meteorological considerations most favor?
And are flooding rains predictable?

4 Swenson, Bennett, The Ohio and Mississippi River floods of January-February 1937, Monthly Weather
Rev., Suppl. 37, 55 pp., 30 figs., 19838. See also, Devereaux, W. C., The Ohio River flood of 1937, Bull.

Amer. Meteorol. Soc., vol. 19, pp. 330-333, 1938. The flood, chiefly from the standpoint of water supply
and sanitation, is extensively discussed in the Journ. Amer. Water Works Assoc., pp. 1230-1307, Sept. 1937,
327

BROOKS AND THIESSEN

FLOODS

“JOM

“JOM
“AIG

“JOM

“JOM
“40M
“JOM

"70.M
“JOM

“JOM
“POM
“s1G
“70M

punoi3
Jo 01}
-1pu0o
sno
TAI

*SddINOS sNOSsTB[[OOSIM PUB ‘sp1000% IeqIVOM PLIOM ‘6z PUL ZZ SJUCME[ddNg MorTASy IeqJeoM A[WJUOP ‘MorAcY Ege M A[YJUOP MOI popidurog 1

0%— jo zI—l9 e+
L+ lect lo t+
9+ loz+ lot+
get It+ |p et
Z| I+ Ie e+
Eyer fe
6I— |oe+ |e T+
2% |e9+ |L-—
OT+ lo F— 6 1—
PI- |L@— |e I-
T— |o-t jot
+ |r+ jgz—
6'8— 189+ |3'e+
m ° +A
5B 8 a
ls} =a
lo} oO

“T. 01njviedu9 J,

soinjiedep WUOM AUIeyyT

“oro
9g "+ | U1OqINOS OF SBsUBHIV |p F IZ TIT ATL es] LTP | LEE |---- Z ‘OTIS “61/0 ‘SUIT 6Z|-- = oo ee "L861 Areniqeg—Azenur ¢
“purlsum MON |g °9 |8°Z1/z 02/6 8% MON Uley NOS pus
St '+ | pus suvqoeisddy ee QF [FL (0°8 jO'OT] O08 | OLR fo BZII9'S | 1 melee clan ig ie aaoie 9861 Id y—Gore
LI°+ | MON [eIjued PUB TI0}SOM [06 |Z ‘T1|9 FI|P ‘6T QS [09 PS her lee aes g*Z | UIOJseM Jo Jey oe ea ge andy atl eer Aine
Tice ||eeerse ae nas puvlsugd MON |F'6 |2°6 |6°6 [9 FI ORD (ROB Fee acre renin eo ae 90T} “0A ‘AOTTVA FISOOTT MA te ae 1261 JaqULoAON
-no'y [e1ju980 YINos pus
90 ++ = Senn GS 8T|S ‘819 “STIS "82 FSS | GIS j0S8‘9 |L ‘ETP OTL L |Z ‘ST| SeSUBYIY UleysvoqyNoOg |-------- ~~ 1761 ei:
1O'+ | SOA 02 sexo, uIO¥seq leg |r -etls FI]b ‘OT leas (ge ea game CT [6°8 |t°L 18 F1 cae, ek el OTA use. Arenuel-9z61 Jequreoeq
PI ‘+ | “Ulsvg IddIssisstJ JOMOT |e °G |e ‘TT|¢ “IT]9 “ZT 4t.10 00Z ‘ET |0°ZT|9 “ET}Z" ae Pagina gees Cae a ae a Cc6L AVW-GoIeyAL
“4sBo
1O'-+ | -Gynos pue suviqoejeddy |Z zz|F ba|T TE} “LE BGC OCR sleeree ce eer ale “19 Z|" ~BUTTOIBH UJION W1eyse MQ [77 9t6r Ainge
ie | eos be ct bert Ee SEA HOES | Orakei SS SE Eee tee itera OW ‘A710 sesuBy sT6q Aing-eun
0€ ‘++ | Pue eUelpul eae oe OL |S TTS TTT] SIT | cee se A 4 OPQ “WOpAeg oe ee “ST6E Wome
ne
FO'— | UJoyMos 04 aoeO 12 |8'9 |2°6 |9'8t] +0F | COT oz8‘9 |8‘9 Jo‘OTIC’T | #1] OW ‘A910 sesuByy |---- -"g06T ABI
Z0°*— | -uueg [vs}Ue0 pus ea P'S |8°6 136 |9'CI O8ee000G Ge larsee cieecle: lanael Ogio saree Ss ed ‘UMOJSayOL |-------- = 68ST oUNf—ABIy
“RIUISITA
600+] ISOAA 09 SBUXOT, MIEYSBO |p “eg j----|---~ DeSh | tsPaOh 60) elect ales GUD OCOae Slliens sae ae UU, ‘O[AGSeN J----7-- 28st Arenue ft
_ on oa -
a ale = 5 9 8 e < ¢ ¢ =
2 Sipe wo 8 & ] Rrlal/o]s
n a 4 =4 ee oS wn o ° Blo
5 ie cl ee eee
mo =} | mm] | st 8
a2 # & lsléle
~|wn
Egg | qeyarerysoravoy jo wolsoxy g a S oy pojooye jsIOA sIUOg eC
5 3 We S
B f=}
5. |
© (799}) e384s
(soyaut) 11e} 5
-UI81 WINX YL MO OUNIES CE 2 grasienaouat

1 Spooyf 7na46 urnjia9 fo Abozo10ajayy—] GIAV,

328 |§ ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938

CAUSES OF THE GREAT FLOODS

Two elements are always involved in the production of a great
flood in the eastern United States: a rapid and continuing flow of
moist tropical air into the country and a frequent or persistent eleva-
tion of this tropical current by a colder air mass over the same region.

Such a wind situation depends on a persistent high-pressure area
in the western Atlantic and another high over the central or northern
interior of the United States or farther west. The Atlantic high pushes
air from the tropical Atlantic northwestward, northward, or north-
eastward, while the western high pushes the polar air southeastward,
southward, or southwestward. The low pressure trough between the
highs is marked by one or more moving centers. Its position varies
in accordance with the relative strengths and locations of the two highs
from day today. The western high or an offshoot from it often moves
eastward; thence it may pass out to sea, to strengthen the Atlantic
high and, consequently, the landward flow of tropical air. This is
what happened January 20 to 24, 1937. Along the front between the
polar and the tropical air masses continuous, sometimes violent, ascent
of the warmer current is in progress. Either the tropical air is the
aggressor (warm front) or the polar air is making gains (cold front).
In either event, the tropical air is forced upward, though usually with
less violence on the warm front than on the cold. This is why it rains.

When moist tropical air is forced to rise, it expands in the lower
pressure aloft and cools at such a rate that in an ascent of 2 miles
three-quarters of its vapor will be precipitated. If such air, originally
nearly saturated at 77° F. (25° C.) over the Caribbean Sea, has been
chilled over land in middle latitudes to 68° F. (20° C.), a layer of such
air 2 miles (3.2 km) thick would contain about 80,000 tons of water
vapor over each square mile of surface. If it were forced upward over
a cold air mass or by convergence to a height of 2 miles, some 60,000
tons of its vapor would be precipitated, or the equivalent of 0.8 inch
(2 cm) of rain. Since the slope of the upper surface of the cold air
mass is commonly only 1 or 2 percent, the lifting of the tropical
air mass by 2 miles would require the passage of 100 or 200 miles of
wind, which at a velocity of only 4 to 8 miles an hour would complete
the entire elevation in 1 day. Since the advance of a tropical air
mass commonly proceeds at 30 to 40 miles an hour, it is easy to see
how rains of several inches in 1 day may fall when a tropical air mass
mounts a polar one. The heaviest fall occurs when the polar front is
standing or advancing under the tropical air mass.

The weather preceding any flood is important in its conditioning
of the watershed as regards run-off. If the weather has been rainy
before the heavy continuous rains that make the flood and the ground
has become soaked, run-off naturally is favored. With well-frozen
ground a like condition exists.
FLOODS—BROOKS AND THIESSEN 329

The run-off that produces great floods of the Mississippi is between
25 and 30 percent of the rainfall over the entire drainage area, which,
however, includes semiarid lands. In Tennessee the average run-off
is estimated as 45 percent.®

The current weather conditions tending to make floods are con-
tinuously heavy rains and temperatures above freezing. Freezing
during the night is a flood deterrent. Warm rains and high tempera-
tures with strong winds melt the layer of snow if there is any; and
rain and snow water run off together. An old snow cover is so dense,
however, that much more time is required to remove it than freshly
fallen snow, the more so if it lies in the shelter of a forest. Ten inches
of rainfall in a day or two will produce a flood anywhere and at any
time in the eastern United States. Five inches will suffice if the ground
is bare or lightly snow-covered and already saturated or frozen.
Under such conditions 60 to 100 percent of the water may run off into
the streams. The Muskingum River (Ohio) flood-control plan is
based on a hypothetical 10 inches of rain in 5 days on frozen ground
with a 90 percent run-off.

On the other hand, dense vegetation and a dry soil or a deep snow
cover on unfrozen ground may wholly absorb 5 or more inches of
rainfall. Thus in March 1936, in experimental plots in the upper
Susquehanna drainage, while 60 percent of a 5-inch rainfall over
several days ran off of open cultivated fields that were frozen, none
came from the unfrozen forest near by; and at the Arnot Soil Conser-
vation Experiment Station in Schuyler County, N. Y., while a run-off
of 7.9 inches, including melted snow, came from frozen, open fields
after 6.4 inches of rainfall, March 10-19, 1936, only 0.1 inch came
from a beech-maple forest plot, where 12 inches of snow remained
unmelted after the snow had disappeared in the open.? Of the 27
inches of rainfall causing the great flood of the Yazoo River, Miss.,
in 1931-32, 62 percent ran off from cultivated fields, 54 percent from
abandoned fields, 2 percent from scrub oak, and 0.5 percent from
undisturbed oak forest. The Soil Conservation Service reported
that 8 inches or 95 percent ran off of plowed land in Ohio in the heavy
rains of January 1937, but only 2 inches from comparable areas under
grass and trees.®

5 Frankenfield, H. C., and others: The spring floods of 1922, Monthly Weather Rev., Suppl. No. 22, pp.
7-8, 1922; idem; The floods of 1927 in the Mississippi Basin, ibid., Suppl. No. 29, p. 31, 1927.

6 Forests in flood control, Supplemental Rep. to Committee on Flood Control, House of Repr., 74th
Congr., 2nd Sess., on H. R. 12517, p. 4, Washington, 1936.

7 Ibid., p. 6.

8 Ibid., pp. 3 and 51-59.

° For other data on storm-rain run-off, see Hoyt, W. G., and others, Studies of relations of rainfall and

run-off in the United States, U. 8. Geol. Surv. Water-Supply Paper, 722, esp. tables 30, 33, 36, 39, 42, 45, 48,
61; Washington, 1936.
330 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938
SEASONS OF GREAT FLOODS

It is no accident that great floods occur only in winter or spring,
even though the melting of accumulated snow is usually a minor or
negligible factor. Summer and autumn rains in the eastern United
States may be as great as those of winter and spring and are usually
more intense, that is, the rate of fallis more rapid. There is so much
more vapor in the air that strong general storms are not required for
the production of excessive rains, and when a hurricane puts the vapor
through the cyclonic wringer at high speed the rains exceed any that
can be produced in winter. Fortunately, however, there is in the
active vegetation of the warm season an effective intercepter of rain,
a mechanical hindrance to run-off, and a rapid user of ground water.
Hardwoods in Wisconsin when in leaf intercepted 25 percent of the
rainfall but when dormant only 16 percent;!° but this difference of
9 percent of the rainfall is but a small part of the total change in run-off
from summer to winter for the same rainfalls. Besides the several
effects of vegetation, evaporation from the ground is greater in summer.
A comparison of run-off with rainfall at Knoxville, Tenn.," shows an
average run-off for 1900-23 of only 28 percent in summer and 30
percent in autumn, whereas in the 3 months January to March it
was 64 percent. Even in summer months with 7 to 12.5 inches of
rainfall the run-off was only 25 to 37 percent. The run-off of 4.06
inches from the 10.89 inches of rainfall in the hurricane flood of July
1916, and that of 4.38 inches from the 12.52 inches of rainfall in August
1901, did not equal the 4.22 and 4.54-inch run-offs from the 7.00 and
7.10-inch rainfalls of the March floods of 1922 and 1918. ‘To produce
important floods in summer, monthly rains well in excess of 10 inches
are required, whereas half as much will suffice in winter. Summer
rains, in general, are spottier than winter ones, and excessive down-
pours are more restricted in area than ordinary heavy rains; so sum-
mer floods are usually more local and of shorter duration than winter
ones. In the cold season the low evaporation permits the ground to
stay wet for a long time after a rain, and a freezing of the ground may
stop percolation. Before the rivers have carried away the water from
one general rainstorm another may occur and add to the burden.

THE OHIO-MISSISSIPPI FLOOD OF JANUARY-FEBRUARY 1937

These general observations may now be examined in the specific
terms of the Ohio-Mississippi flood of January-February 1937. In
the eastern United States northwesterly or northerly winds normally
prevail in winter, pushed from the high pressure formed by air accumu- |

10Ibid., p. 4. Of. also Baldwin, H. I., and Brooks, C. F., Forests and floods in New Hampshire, New
England Regional Planning Commission, Publ. No. 47, pp. 5-9, Boston, 1936.

11 Voorhees, J. F., A preliminary study of effective rainfall, Monthly Weather Rev., vol. 53, pp. 63-65,
1925.
FLOODS—BROOKS AND THIESSEN 331

lated over the cold continent toward the low pressure over the warm
waters of the Gulf Stream and beyond. Occasionally, however, the
semipermanent high-pressure area of the subtropical Atlantic, which
is usually some distance east of North America, expands and builds
up westward into the Bermuda region. This happened in December
1936, starting, after a cold November, a most remarkably mild and
wet winter for the eastern part of the country. Bermuda pressures
were only moderately high in the first 3 weeks of December, but
from the 22d of that month until the 29th of January the morning
pressures did not fall below 30.20 inches. The mean for January was
30.32 inches, in place of the 29.96-inch normal. Pressures must have
been higher farther east, for the wind at Bermuda was prevailingly
southeast to south.

Why the high formed and stayed in the southwestern North Atlantic
is unknown.

TN

MEAN TEMPERATURE ~*
DEPARTURE (F°)
Jan. 19 -Jan. 26, 1937

FIGURE 1.—The departure of mean temperatures from the normal for the week ending 7:30 a. m., January 26,
1937. (From Weekly Weather and Crop Bull., January 26, 1937.) ‘The shaded area shows excess tem-
perature (F.°); the unshaded area, deficiency; the dotted line, the southern limit of freezing weather.

To favor high pressure at Bermuda, one should expect sea tempera-
tures to have been lower than usual there and higher than is common
farther east,!? though it would hardly seem possible that even the
greatest sea temperature departures could account for the pressure
anomaly. The actual values of sea temperature, however, showed
departures similar to those of the air temperature, and, therefore,
were adverse rather than favorable to the westward extension and
intensification of the Azores-Bermuda high. The mean sea-surface
temperatures for December, January, and February about Bermuda
were 0.5, 3.4 and 0.5° F. above the average of the 20 years, 1912 to

12 Of. Humphreys, W.J.: Why some winters are warm and others cold in the Eastern United States,

Monthly Weather Review, vol. 42, pp. 672-675, 1914. For a case the reverse of 1937 conditions see Brooks,
O. F., The “‘old-fashioned”’ winter of 1917-18, Geogr. Review, vol. 5, pp. 405-414, 1918.
302 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938

1931, as compiled by the United States Weather Bureau. The sea
temperatures in the general longitude of the Azores and latitude of
Bermuda, on the other hand, were 1.7, 1.0 and 2.6° F. below the nor-
mals for those 3 months.

In accordance with the pressure gradients on the south and west
of this standing Bermuda high, great tropical air masses moved day
after day over the hot waters of low latitudes westward and north-
westward toward the United States. Passing the length of the
Caribbean Sea, they turned northward into the Gulf of Mexico and
entered the continent nearly saturated with water vapor to a height
of 2 kilometers or more. Flooding rains were inevitable. The ques-
tion was, where? The Arctic held the answer.

The major interzonal exchanges of air take place in alternating
bands of considerable width. In January 1937, there was a northward

SNOW COVER

Jan. 11,1937

FIGURE 2.—The depth of snow on the ground, 8 p. m., January 11, 1937. (From Weekly Weather and
Crop Bull., January 12, 1937.)

current of tropical air occupying a band about 2,000 miles wide from
somewhere east of Bermuda to a short distance west of the Mississipp1
River. Its western boundary is strikingly suggested by the sharp
gradient between the large positive temperature departures east of
the Mississippi and the large negative ones to the west (fig. 1). From
the plains to the Pacific coast and beyond a southward current of
polar air prevailed occupying a band also about 2,000 miles wide.

The chilling and shrinkage of air continuously in progress in the
polar regions in winter leads to an accumulation of air that must dis-
charge toward the lightened pressures of middle latitudes. The loci
of chief upbuilding of polar air masses vary somewhat from year to
year, apparently in relation both to the distribution of cold surfaces,
namely ice-covered sea and snow-covered land, and to the proximity
of warm surfaces, for the expanded air over warm surfaces readily
overflows and feeds the accumulating cold air masses.
CR:

tht Bertie j

.. aes aa.
Jan.14,1937-8 m5.
precipitation A
eee cold \ . RAINFALL

warm
Frours ooaided 8am. Jan.l4—
8am. Jan.|5,

inactive * 7
ven Z 10 ts 1937

Jan.21,1937-8m
mma upper cold front m
a frontogenesis rma 8am. Jan. 2I-
: Bam. Jan. 22,

Jan.24,1937-8 om
= upper warm front
8am. Jan.24-
8am. Jan.25,

Fiaurxs 3-5.—Weather maps for 8 p. m., January 14, January 21, and Jonuary J'icunEs 6-8.—Rainfall in excess of 1 inch
24, 1987, respectively. (Courtesy U. 8. Weather Bureau.) in the 24 hours ending at 8 a. m., 76th
Meridian Time,on January 15, January

114728°—39 (Face p. 333) 22, and January 25, 1937, respectively.
FLOODS—BROOKS AND THIESSEN 333

Furthermore, the channels through which the discharges take place
tend to be maintained for weeks or months. This seems partly to be
owing to the locations of the accumulation areas but is also the result
of conditions favoring the transport of cold air without too much
warming en route. The first outbreaks of polar air lay down a carpet
of snow, which thereafter neither becomes warm itself nor permits
much heat from the ground to reach the top of the snow blanket;
portions of the polar air masses continuing over the snow are less
warmed than if they passed over bare ground; pressure over the snow-
covered regions continues high; and further progress of the cold mass
is facilitated.

The Arctic outpourings in the winter of 1936-37 established a
favoring lane southward through the western half of North America
and, with few interruptions, dominated this region, continuing drought
on the Great Plains, elevating Pacific air to lay down deep snows in
the far West, and freezing the oranges of southern California.

A heavy snow cover became established in the upper Mississippi
Valley and upper Lakes region, where the eastern margin of the polar
air mass frequently elevated the much-chilled western margin of the
tropical air mass. This snow-covered region, like that over the western
plateau, became a secondary booster of polar air masses, strengthening
them for combat along the tropical front to the southeast (fig. 2).

The weather maps for January 14, 21, and 24, when the heaviest
rains were in progress, show the principal fronts and trough of low
pressure between the Bermuda and northern highs (figs. 3-5). The
weather map of January 14 (fig. 3) indicates in typical form the
Atlantic high and another high over the eastern slope of the Rockies.
A cold front extends in a general northeast-southwest direction and
lies just west of the Appalachians. It moved slowly from the morning
of the 14th to the evening of the 15th. West of the frontal line was
polar Pacific air, and east was tropical air. Heavy rains fell in a
narrow belt extending from Lake Erie in a southwesterly direction to
Arkansas.

The succession of formations from January 14 to 25 presents most
interesting examples of frontal interactions, as indicated in some
measure by the successive daily positions of the tropical front, shown
in figure 10. Table 2 shows the daily rainfalls at selected stations, as
published on the Washington weather maps.
334 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938

Sault Ste Marie Nashville Pensacola Miami

MICH. TENN. FLA. FLA.

6 | KILOMETERS eo
°

°

y Yj
GEOGR. REVIEW, aPR.i93? “ZZ

FIGURE 9.—Cross-section of air masses and fronts, north to south, at 8 a. m., January 22, 1937. (Courtesy
Massachusetts Institute of Technology.) Warm and cold fronts shown by conventional symbols; Npp,
modified polar Pacific air; Pc, polar continental air; Ta, tropical Gulf air; Ts, tropical superior air.

TaBLE 2.—Wind Directions and Daily Rainfalls in the Ohio and Lower Mississippi
Valleys, January 1937

{In inches, during 24 hours ending at 8 a. m., 75th Meridian Time]

Da Little | Meridian, | Memphis,} Nashville,} Cairo, Evans- | Louisville,| Cincin-

y Rock, Ark.| Miss. Tenn. Tenn. Ill. ville, Ind.| Ky. | nati, Ohio
pt USS Be eee S__.0.04 | S._.0.01 | S__.0.00 | S__.0.01 | S...0.50 | SW.0.70 | S_-.0.28 | SW..0.58
1 a eae N-_..1.00 | W.-1.50 |] NW 0.86 | NW 1.02 | NW 1.46 | NW 2.52 | W..2.52 | NW -2.08
16tLS. 4 E___0.00 | NE_0.00 | E_-.0.00 | NE_0.00 | N__-0.00 | NE_0.00 | E--.0.00 | NW -0.00
Rie ee §...0.14-] S__-0.10 |} E_..0.30 | SE_-0. 54 | S_..0.14 | S...0.12 | SE__0.38 | S..-.0.02
Reese aS. INS W25008 |e NW 2.39 | W_-.2.28 | N_..1.54 | NW 1.70 | NW 1.54 | SW..1.78
| eee E_-_.0.00 | E_..2.08 | NE.0.00 | NE-.0.28 | NE.0.00 | NE_0.00 | NE.0.00 | NE--.0.01
PV ee ss 8__.0.14 | S...2.24 | S___1.56 | E__.2.32 | SE_.0.12 | E_-.0.40 | SH_.0.14 | SE_--0.04
D) aes PE 4036 Be cOk0 2 ee 1 b25| NUE 0248) N= 2292) | Nicaea e8, |) dee. Seen Mier
22. F282 255. INE! 32) Si. 520/00: [aN 223.24) | NEO, 72) |) IN 222506) | IN2221. 52) ANiS23534 fh Nesse2) 00
5 eae NE-1.26 | NW 0.02 | N__-0.78 | N_--1.86 | N.--1.36 | N_--0.80 | N_--1.22 | NE_-0. 66
DAS seein N_-..0.01 | SE__1.24 | B_.-2.08 | SE__0.18 | E__.0.52 | NE_0.46 | NE_0.44 | NE-.0.16
Pee eee ae N-_..0.84 | N_.-2.32 | N_..0.96 | NW 0.46 | SW.0.90 | W_-.1.36 | NW 2.66 | W--.2.38
14H 2b ae os N__12.11 | 8.>_9.53 | E__13.69 | NE 10.15 | N_.11.52 | N_.12.36 | Var15.00 | NE-.11. 69

Although heavy rains occurred early in the month, it was not until
the 14th that excessive precipitation fell over the Ohio basin. This
precipitation came in advance of a slowly moving cold front, which by
the 15th had pushed eastward to the crest of the Appalachians and so
completed a considerable lifting of a large body of moist tropical air.
A day of fair weather with northwest to north winds ensued (see
table 2); but by the 17th the tropical wind had again established
itself over the region. Another cold front soon lifted this tropical
wind and squeezed it against the Appalachians again, producing
heavy rain on the 17th and 18th, followed by northwest winds and
FLOODS—BROOKS AND THIESSEN 335

fair weather for a day. Owing apparently to the major thrust of
polar air into low latitudes along the eastern seaboard of the United
States, a large return of tropical air on the 20th brought renewed heavy
precipitation, which continued in the form of instability showers, even
thunderstorm rains, until the 24th. (Figure 9 is a north-south cross-
section of the air masses, Jan. 22.) The rainfall in this 5-day period
was of the order of 10 inches in a narrow central belt from Louisville
to Little Rock. The day of greatest rainfall in the Ohio Valley was
the 21st (see fig. 7). The winds at the surface were mostly northerly
during these heavy rains; the tropical front was to the south. The
temperatures of this remarkable week are shown in figure 1. The
rainfall for January 1-25, half to two-thirds of which fell in the 5

Jan. 1-25,1937

: Oza es ht See
IT) | | (AS A pane

FRONTS

vy, ,Jan.1937
oe zs Bam Mars

ay / —-——-- inactive
23 be ? ae
so ha Fe a GEOGR. REVIEW, APR. 1937

SSS —— — : :
FIGURE 10.—Successive daily positions (8 a. m.) of FIGURE 11.—Rainfall in the Ohio and Lower Missis-
the front between tropical and polar air masses  sippi basins between January 1 and 25, 1937,
from January 14 to 25,1937. (From U.S. Weather (Courtesy U.S. Weather Bureau.)
Bureau Ms. Maps.)

days, January 20-25, is shown in figure 11. J. B. Kincer computed
that in the belt of heaviest rainfall about 100 miles wide and 550 miles
long the 16 inches of rainfall amounted to more than 60 billion tons of
water.% This precipitation was four times the normal amount.
Table 3 shows the flood stages produced throughout the length of
the Ohio River, which, except at Pittsburgh, reached the highest
stages ever known. One of the meteorological hazards in a great
flood, when the waters are lapping the tops of the levees at the edge
of a moving lake miles wide, is the wind. Not only does the wind
raise erosive waves, but it also raises the stage of the water. Thus
at Memphis after an apparent crest had been reached, a 25-mile wind

18 Record-breaking January drought, floods, freezes, and early blooms, Information for the Press, U. S.
Dept. of Agriculture, January 30, 1937.
336 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938

raised the level by 0.1 foot. The hazard of wind action is not so great
as on a lake of similar dimensions, because the flood waters are usually
shallower and projecting trees and buildings serve to reduce both the
wind velocity and the disturbance of the water.

When so enormous a quantity of water is involved, spread out over
the lowlands, the passage of even great masses downstream lowers
the upstream stages but slowly. The quantity of water represented
by one foot when the flood is at its height is equal to that represented
by several feet at lower stages. So great was the discharge of the Ohio
relative to the Mississippi at the junction of the rivers that in this 1937
flood the flow of the Mississippi above the mouth of the Ohio was
reversed. This means that all the run-off of the Mississippi above
Cairo was stopped for a time and that even moderate rains plus the
water from the melting of the great quantity of snow in the upper
Mississippi and middle Missouri valleys might have raised the levels
of these rivers above flood stages before the flood waters of the Ohio
passed on. Frankenfield found the damming effect of a flooded Ohio
nearly to St. Louis. Similarly the great discharge of the Arkansas
and other streams into the Mississippi below Cairo created a water
dam. It is obvious why the period of high waters in the lower
Mississippi is protracted.

TaBLE 3.—Mazximum flood stages, Ohio and lower Mississippi, January and

February }
Crest, 1937 Previous record
- Flood | Duration above flood
Station stage stage, 1937
Stage Date Stage Date
Feet
Pittsburgh eee 25 | Jan. 18-20, 21-27____- Odd) als 265s eee ee 46.0 | Mar. 18, 1936
Portsmouth_-_-___-__ 50 | Jan. 18-Feb. 3_-_____ a Fe NC (ee ee ES 67.9 | Mar. 31, 1913
C@imeinnatiz=s 2. se" D2 Wan. SHO. .Ofo- 22. | EsON Olen Wun c et = eee ne 71.1 | Feb. 14, 1884
Mouisvilles=s ce ae PATE! Asvoke ted Oe oy yee ete el Mars Uno IRAE Voy r-7pee kes ee eS 46.7 | Feb. 16, 1884
Evansville_____-___- 35 | Jan. 10-Feb. 19-_____| 58.75 | Jan. 31-Feb.1--_.._--| 48.4] Apr. 65,1913
INashville= 222 40 | Jan. 3-10, 19-Feb. 4.) 53.8 | Jan. 26__._-__---___- 56.2 | Jan. 1, 1927
Cairo’ ee 40 | Jan. 9-Feb. 27_______| 59.5 1s oe = ee ee 56.4 | Apr. 20, 1927
Memphis=-2-2---.- 34 |Wanec0—IViared) 2 22 2e 25083) a ehebO-10le._ ae 246.6 | Apr. 9, 1913
WVicksbure- 2 -e2s<-<~ 43 | Jan. 30-—Mar. 14____- 53: 2 Hebe2he 2 a ee 58.6 | May 4,1927
New Orleans_-__-___- 17 | Feb. 7-Mar. 19______ NORS a E OD 25s ee 21.3 | Apr. 25, 1922

1 Data from U.S. Weather Bureau gage records.
2 Beale St. gage.

WESTERN COLD THE ACCOMPANIMENT OF EASTERN FLOODS

The flood so eclipsed all else in weather news that the extreme cold
in the West received little general attention. Throughout January
polar air masses were just as persistently covering the West as tropical
ones were deluging the East. Oranges were freezing in southern Cali-
fornia while they were ripening too fast in Florida and early fruit
trees were blossoming in southern South Carolina. Figure 1 shows
temperatures more than 20° F. below normal in the central and south-
FLOODS—BROOKS AND THIESSEN 337

ern plateau region, where a blanket of snow maintained the original
polar frigidity of the air. As thrust after thrust of polar air pushed
southward in floods deep enough to overtop the usually protecting
mountain wall of southern California—as indeed the floods of waters
had overtopped the protecting walls along the great rivers in the
East—this famous subtropical corner of the United States experienced
a month of frequent freezes, ice, and occasional snow and was often
colder than southern New England. The mean temperature of
January at Los Angeles was 1.3° F. lower than the coldest on record.
Two pronounced periods of cold, January 7-11 and 19-28, the latter
coinciding with the rainiest period in the Ohio Valley, destroyed about
40 percent of the orange crop, despite frantic efforts to heat the or-
chards. Farther north, real wintry weather prevailed over the

* y 2 os a Sy
NGS Ww TOTAL
ASIN ' PRECIPITATION
March, 1913
SS

oS

DS Soh
SS
=

yk
SS

500 MILES
500 KILOMETERS

FIGURE 12.—Rainfall, Mar. 23 to 27, 1913 FIGURE 13.—Total precipitation in the eastern
(after F. J. Walz, Monthly Weather Rev., United States, March 1913.
March 1913; map opposite p. 368).

coastal belt as well as to the east. At the end of January Portland
was buried in its heaviest snowstorm of record.

Is western cold the normal accompaniment of eastern floods? In
table 1 are shown temperature departures of months when flooding
rains were producing great floods in the east. Subnormal tempera-
tures in San Diego have been coincident with the chief rainy months
of all other general floods of winter or early spring in the Ohio and
lower Mississippi valleys since 1882: the years 1883, 1897, 1903, 1907,
1912, 1916, 1920, and 1926 (December). Obviously, widespread and
great flooding rains in the Ohio and lower Mississippi valleys are
attended by cold weather in southern California owing to a natural
opposition between the great interlatitude currents of air.

4 Cf, Ackerman, E. A., The 1937 California freeze. Bull. Amer. Meteor. Soc., vol. 18, pp. 240-241, 1937
Young, F. D., The 1937 freeze in California. Monthly Weather Rev., vol. 66, pp. 311-324, 13 figs., 1938
338 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938

SIMILARITIES BETWEEN THE OHIO FLOODS OF 1913 AND 1937

The conditions causing the excessive rainfall of up to 14 inches in
northern Tennessee and 17 inches in northeastern Arkansas in January
1913, and from 13 inches in southwestern Indiana to 12.7 in north-
central Ohio in March 1913, were almost identical with those of
January 1937. The pressure at Bermuda was 0.19 inch above normal
in January 1913 and 0.30 above normal in March; which are to be
compared with 0.36 above normal in January 1937, though during the
heaviest rains the pressure departure of March 23-27, 1913, +0.39,
exceeded that of January 20-25, 1937, +0.20.%

The rainfall, though not so great over the Ohio and lower Missis-
sippi watersheds as in the flood of 1937, nevertheless produced excep-

ont > .
~~ ‘
‘ 2 ' — =
do £0 —

FIGURE 14.—Weather map of 8 p. m., March 24, 1913. (Courtesy U. S. Weather Bureau.)

tional floods in the Ohio basin. In January 1913 a number of low
pressure troughs parallel to the Ohio in regular succession were
accompanied by heavy rains south of the river in the first half of the
month and north of it in the last half. A crest of 62.2 feet was reached
at Cincinnati on the 15th. Before the flooding rains the ground was
neither snow-covered nor frozen.

The second flood, which, after rising 43.5 feet in 5 days, culminated
at 69.8 feet on April 1 at Cincinnati, was due to the tremendous rains
of March 23-27,!’ when more than 10 inches fell at four stations (fig.
12). The occurrence of three tornadoes in southern Indiana, southern
Illinois, and Kentucky on the evenings of March 23 and 24 and the
morning of the 25th was further evidence of an extraordinary intensity
of convection of the tropical air. The sudden rise of the Miami, at

18 Swenson, loc. cit., p. 36.

16 Henry, A. J., Rivers and floods, January 1913. Monthly Weather Rev., vol. 41A, pp. 148-149, 1913.
“ Idem: Rivers and floods, March 1913, ibid., pp. 485-492.
FLOODS—BROOKS AND THIESSEN 339

Dayton, 17 feet in one day, was mainly responsible for the large loss
of life, totaling 732 persons.

Between the great high, 30.53 inches, at Bermuda, which was
driving the tropical air, and the strong northern continental high,
which was pushing the polar air kept well chilled by the deep snow
cover of the region about and westward of Lake Superior, much as in
1937, the trough of low pressure moved but slowly for several days
(fig. 14). The fronts of 1913 were farther north than those of 1937,
and the belt of excessive rainfall in March 1913 (fig. 13) was about
100 miles to the north and somewhat to the east of that of 1937 (fig.
11);'§ and no excessive rains fell across the lower Mississippi in March
1913. The line dividing plus and minus temperature departures was
farther east in 1913 (85th meridian) than in 1937.

COMPARISON WITH FLOODS OF 1922 AND 1882

In March 1922 a well-developed high in the southwestern Atlantic,
averaging 0.14 inch above normal for the month at Bermuda, sent a
copius flow of tropical marine air into the United States. Encounter
with polar air masses took place over a broad area of the interior.
Precipitation was so widespread that, with the exception of the Ten-
nessee and Cumberland Rivers, the Mississippi and all its tributaries
were in flood at the same time. ‘The rainfall contributing to this flood
as a whole, counting all the precipitation from January to April
inclusive over the entire 1,250,900 square miles of the Mississippi
drainage basin, averaged 10.58 inches, 33 percent of which came in
March and 36 percent in April. The run-off was 25 percent. Re-
gionally the March rainfall ranged from 13 inches in eastern Arkansas
to 11 in central Kentucky and up to 15 in Louisiana and 14 in southern
Mississippi. The rain fell mostly on March 10, 14 to 15, and 30 to 31,
when the tropical front passed through these regions; while the supply
of tropical air was maintained by the Bermuda high, which was par-
ticularly strong in these three periods. Daily rainfalls were commonly
1.5 to 3 and nearly 4 inches. April’s excessive rainfall was mostly 12
inches in southeastern Kansas to 9 inches in central Indiana."

In January 1882 there was a southwest-northeast band of exces-
sive rainfall extraordinarily like that of January 1937 (fig. 11), with
rainfalls of 8 to 10 inches in eastern Texas up to over 15 inches in
eastern Tennessee; but this band lay about 100 miles south of that of
1937. In February 1882, 8 to 10 inches of rain fell over Arkansas
and more than 8 inches over the lower Ohio Basin. The Cumberland
River at Nashville rose to 54 feet 7 inches, just topping the great flood
of 1847. The flood was due chiefly to the excessive rains, locally 3

18 Cf. Swenson, loc. cit., fig. 24.

10 Frankenfield, The spring floods of 1922, loc. cit.
20 Cf. Swenson, loc. cit., fig. 24.

114728—39. 23

340 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938

inches a day on January 12 to 13, 16, 21, and 27 to 28. Bermuda pres-
sures were 0.09 inch above normal in January and 0.08 above normal
in February, and temperatures were generally above normal through-
out the eastern and central United States. North of the flood belt
and in the northeast there were heavy snows.

The West, as usual when the central valleys are flooded, was cold.
Southern California experienced the severest freeze and heaviest snow-
storms ever known. On January 13 snow fell generally, even at San
Diego, and at Riverside it was deep enough (5 inches) for sleighing
among the orange groves. Frost occurred on 29 days of January in
southern California and on 20 days of February.

Another visitation, almost identical with that of January 1882,
came in December 1926, when, after wet preliminaries, a total of
nearly 10 inches of rain fell over the Cumberland Valley in 9 days and
the river at Nashville reached 56.2 feet. Bermuda pressures were
high during the rainy spells of the month.

APRIL AND MAY FLOODS IN THE MISSISSIPPI VALLEY

Middle and late spring floods, though caused in much the same
manner as the winter floods already discussed, have the advantage of
more vapor in the warmer tropical air and a greater intensity of
convection and therefore of local storminess. The leafing out in spring,
however, with increased interception and transpiration, reduces the
run-off. Three floods may be cited: the general flood of April-May
1927, a very great one, and the Missouri Valley floods of May 1903,
and June 1915.

In April 1927, as in early 1937, 1913, and 1882, a standing high
in the southwestern Atlantic (Bermuda +0.06 inch) drove tropical
air over a long fetch of very warm water ” and into the south-central
United States, where it met large flows of polar air in the middle and
lower Mississippi Basin. The severe rainstorms—12 to 24 inches of
rain fell in April over eastern Oklahoma, central and northern Arkan-
sas, southern Missouri, and western Tennessee, while a large area
around had more than 8 inches—following only 2 months after a
midwinter flood, produced the highest stages theretofore known in the
Arkansas and lower Mississippi Rivers. Frankenfield computed that
about 55 cubic miles of water went down the Mississippi (26 percent
of the 213 cubic miles of precipitation January to April). Melted
snow made a negligible contribution, as in 1937, 1922, and 1913.

The rains in April 1927 were of greater violence than in 1937,
being associated frequently with thunderstorms and occasional torna-
does. In 5 days, April 10-14, 18 tornadoes occurred in connection

41 Note the southeast-northwest isobars across the Caribbean on the North Atlantic weather maps
Monthly Weather Rev., vol. 55, No. 4, charts 8-11, 1927.

12 Frankenfield, The floods of 1927, loc. cit.: for a summary see Henry, A. J., Frankenfield on the 1927
floods in the Mississippi Valley, Monthly Weather Reyv., vol. 55, pp. 437-452, 1927.
FLOODS—BROOKS AND THIESSEN 341

with the mixing of very cold polar air with fresh tropical air in Texas,
Oklahoma, and Arkansas. Here again, as in 1937, 1913, and 1882,
the coldness of the polar air was preserved by the deep snows not
far to the north. The snowfall in April 1927 was tremendous on the
northern Great Plains, as much as 60 inches south of the Black Hills.
The cold front frequently stalled in the Ouachita or in the Ozark
Mountains, as if the slight obstruction here was responsible for holding
the slowly moving front. A quasi-stationary cold front here on April
19-21 yielded 5 to 12 inches of rainfall. Another period of nearly
continuous rainfall was April 7-16. Analysis of the immediate cause
of the rainfall showed that convergence in south winds was answerable
for 43 percent, ascent over a warm front with northeast winds at the
surface for 35 percent, and ascent over a cold front with northwest
winds at the surface for 22 percent.”

The floods of May 1903 and of June 1915 in the lower Missouri,
affecting Kansas City chiefly, were due to the northward thrust of
tropical air by a high in the southeastern states and a westward or
southwestward thrust of polar air from standing highs in the Lake
region and westward. Lows stalled over the central plains and yielded
tremendous quantities of rainfall in the form of great showers.”

FLOODS CAUSED IN PART BY OROGRAPHIC RAINFALL:
APPALACHIAN AND NORTHEASTERN FLOODS OF MARCH, 1936 %

In the floods of March 1936 the Appalachian barrier seemed to play
an important role by forming the divide between banked-up polar air
on the west and tropical or its underlying modified polar Pacific or
polar continental air masses on the east. While this favored fairly
continuous rain, glaze, sleet, and snow in successive belts westward
from the divide, heavy rains fell on the east of the divide as fronts
nosed northeastward under the strong tropical wind from the south-
east.° Extraordinary rains fell where the action of these fronts was
augmented by such pronounced obstructions as the White Mountains.
Thus at Pinkham Notch, at 2,000 feet on the southeast slope of Mount
Washington, N. H., which rises 4,300 feet above it, 6.46 inches of rain
fell on March 12, while the wind on Mount Washington reached a

23 Brooks, C. F. [and N. H. Bangs], [The causes of the flooding rains of April 1927] in discussion of Flood
control with special reference to the Mississippi River, Proc. Amer. Soc. Civil Engineers, vol. 54, pt. I,
pp. 1260-1265, 1928; Trans. A. 8. C. E., vol. 93, pp. 894-898, 1929.

4 Frankenfield, H. C., Floods of the spring of 1903 in the Mississippi Watershed, U. S. Weather Bur.
Bull. M, 1904; Day, P. C., The weather of the month [May 1915], Monthly Weather Reyv., vol. 43, pp.
250-252, 1915; Henry, A. J., The floods of May and June, 1915, in the Missouri Valley, ibid., pp. 286-287;
Connor, P., Loss by floods in Kansas River and tributaries, June 1915, ibid., pp. 287-288; Henry, A. J.,
Rivers and floods, July 1915, ibid., pp. 353-355.

2% Cf. U. S. Geological Survey; Water-Supply Papers 798, 799, and 800; The flood of March 1936; 466, 380»
and 351 pp.

39 Byers, H. R., Meteorological conditions during the March 1936, and other notable floods, Journ. New
England Water Works Assoc., vol. 51, pp. 213-218, 9 figs., 1937.

Lichtblau, Stephen, Weather associated with floods of March 1936, U. S. Geological Survey Water-Supply
Paper 800, pp. 12-a1.
342 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938

. 29%

we
wn
March 16, 1936-8 pm

90 > jobs

FIGURE 15.—Successive developments in the
weather situation March 12 to 17, 1936, in the
eastern United States (8 p. m. air-mass maps,
courtesy U. S. Weather bureau).

velocity of 158 miles an hour from
the south-southeast. On the 18th
6.27 inches of rain fell and 4.05 more
on the 19th, while the winds on the
mountain reached 132 miles an hour
from the southeast. The total rain-
fall at Pinkham Notch in the 14
days from March 9 to 22 was 22.43
inches; at Randolph, north of the
mountain, 16.19; and on the sum-
mit of Mount Washington, 13.86.

The Atlantic high on this occasion
was centered off the Middle and
North Atlantic States instead of
Bermuda and southward as in the
other three great floods. Never-
theless, the pressure at Bermuda in
March 1936, averaged 0.15 inch
above normal. Thus the tropical
air streams reached the United
States from the southeast and
mostly along the coast north of
Hatteras. The speed of inflow in
the lower levels was often 20 to 40
miles an hour and at higher levels
twice these speeds.

A complicating factor was the
deep and dense snow cover and heavy-
ily frozen rivers at the beginning of
March (fig. 18). Ice was reported
in all the northern rivers and in
the headwaters of the Ohio. The
Allegheny was frozen, New Jersey
rivers were ice-jammed, and the
West Virginia rivers were filled with
floating ice.

In January 19386 precipitation
was above normal everywhere in the
section of the country considered—
New England, Middle Atlantic
States, Virginia, and the upper Ohio
Valley. Temperature everywhere
averaged below normal. In the last
decade of the month temperatures
below zero were reported every-
FLOODS—BROOKS AND THIESSEN

M fe\
V Og

ss

7
ES
af

y

PRECIPITATION
March, 1936 _so

500 KILOMETERS

GEOGR. REVIEW, APR. 1937

343

FiGuRE 16.—Total precipitation in the eastern United States, March 1936. (rom Monthly Weather

Rev., March 1936.)

5O MILES
50 KILOMETERS

FiGurRE 17.—Rainfall and water equivalent of snow cover melted from March 9 to 21, inclusive, 1936, in New

England. (From Climatic Data, U. S. Weather Bureau, New England Section, March 1936.)
344 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938

where from New England to Virginia and westward, including Ken-
tucky and Ohio, and were continued in one of the coldest Februarys
on record. Precipitation during February was slightly below normal
for most of the area. These conditions were favorable for freezing the
ground to a depth of several inches and, therefore, conducive to floods;
the greater part of the March rains was immediately available as
run-off. After the first 8 days, March temperatures were 3 to 12
degrees above normal. Precipitation was well above normal in all
parts except Kentucky and Ohio: in New England more than twice
the normal monthly amount fell. Fortunately a week of balmy winds
preceded the first heavy rains, so that the removal of the snow cover
and softening of the ice were well under way. A respite of a few

f

SNOW COVER |
—V March 2 1936 March 23 Tay

500 MILES

500 KILOMETERS

Nea [ea A a) Le 2 Be ccoaR REVIEW APR LIOS%

FIGURE 18.—Depth of snow on ground at 8 p. m., FIGURE 19.—Depth of snow on ground at & p. m.,

March 2, 1936. (From Weekly Weather and March 23, 1936. (From Weekly Weather and
Crop Bull., March 3, 1936.) Crop Bull., March 24, 1936.)

days after the first downpours also permitted the crest of the snow,
ice block, and rain flood to pass before the greater rains descended.

Though Pittsburgh had its worst flood on record, with a stage 7
feet higher than ever before known, the local contribution to the waters
was relatively small and in ice form. If the general temperatures
had been only a few degrees higher, the addition of the precipitation
that covered western Pennsylvania with ice or snow to the floodwaters
from the 5- to 7-inch rains near the crest of the Appalachians might
well have added several feet to this extraordinary visitation. The
trees in a north-to-south belt across western New York were devastated
by the ice storm; and Buffalo was snowed in by an unprecedented fall,
to which was added a few days later another heavy snowstorm.

New England above 2,000 feet was still deeply snow-covered when
the tropical wind and great rains burst upon the country on March 17;
FLOODS—BROOKS AND THIESSEN 345

consequently a further release of snow water added to the tremendous
rain, making a total of 10 to 30 inches since March 9 (fig. 17), brought
the chief rivers to unprecedented stages.” The headwaters in the
mountains, however, were so well protected by dense coniferous
forests that the snow cover was not entirely removed and acted as a
good storage reservoir for the rain. At Pinkham Notch the depth
of snow cover was reduced from 48 inches on the 9th to 16.2 inches on
the 21st, and on Mount Washington summit from 20.5 inches to only 1
inch.” Accordingly, though great slush slides occurred, the floods in
the mountains were not exceptional.

THE JOHNSTOWN FLOOD OF 1889

The Johnstown flood of 1889, like the flood of 1936, was caused by
the meeting of a strong flow of tropical Atlantic air from the southeast
with a standing front of modified though cold polar continental air
near the crest of the central Appalachians.” Although the disaster
at Johnstown and vicinity, in which some 9,000 people were drowned,
was due chiefly to the bursting of a dam, the rainfall, averaging 6.2
inches over the Johnstown Valley,’ is the outstanding occurrence of its
kind over the central Appalachians.*! The maximum was 9.8 inches,
falling in 31 hours. Russell computes that 1.9 cubic miles of water fell
on the Susquehanna watershed, 1 cubic mile on the Potomac, and 0.9
cubic mile on the Allegheny and Monongahela watersheds. The
rain front swept from the Atlantic to Lake Erie in 16 hours.”

THE NEW ENGLAND AND NEW YORK FLOODS OF 1927, 1935, 1938

The New England and New York floods of November 1927 were
caused in much the same manner as the widespread flood of 1936 and
the less general one of 1889. The chief flood was due to the rain of
November 3 to 4, when exceptional rains fell on soil thoroughly soaked
by the tropical storm a fortnight before. A western low and a weak
tropical cyclone joined forces in a deep current of tropical air, which
was forced northward at increasing speed by a great high centered
near Newfoundland. Part of the strength of this high, which at one
time reached 30.72 inches, was derived from a flow of cold air from
the Greenland region. The rainfall was due to convergence in the

37 Cf. Uhl, W. F., Flood conditions in New England, Proc. Amer. Soc. of Civil Engineers, Mar., pp. 449-
483, 1937; and Grover, Nathan C., The floods of March 1936, Part 1, New England rivers, U. 8. Geological
Survey, Water Supply Paper 798, 466 pp., illus., 1937.

438 For further details see Baldwin and Brooks, op. cit.

29 Byers, H. R., Meteorological conditions during the March 1936 and other notable floods, loc. cit, p. 212.

20 Russell, T., The Johnstown flood, Monthly Weather Rev., vol. 17, pp. 117-119, 1889.

311 Hayes, M. W., Some flood-producing storms of the Atlantic Seaboard, Journ. New England Water

Works Assoc., vol. 51, pp. 207-208, 1937.
33 Russell, op. cit., Chart 6.
346 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938

tropical cyclone, to general convergence of the tropical wind in New
England, to ascent, and convection touched off by it, both over high-
lands and a cold air mass banked up behind the Green Mountains.

With the passage of the tropical cyclone the night of the 3rd-4th,
a narrow belt of excessive rain drove northward through Rhode Island
and eastern Massachusetts. Orographic plus frontal effects caused
more than 7 inches of rainfall in western Massachusetts and up to
9.65 in Vermont, of which 8.77 fell in one day. Still heavier rains
evidently occurred in the mountains, judging from the tremendous
quantities of water discharged both from the Green Mountains and
from the White Mountains, possibly up to 15 inches.* Minor floods
of the same type, occurred in Vermont and New York later in the
same month.

The New England and New York floods of September 1938 resulted
from a close duplication of the conditions of November 1927, only
this time the tropical cyclone was a major hurricane.**

The New York State flood of July 1935,> had many features in
common with the New England flood. Western New York, also a
portion of Pennsylvania, received rains in excess of 8 inches in con-
nection with a slowly moving cold front meeting active streams of
tropical air, July 7-8. The maximum in 24-hours rainfall was 9.00
inches at Pottsville, Pa., 8.52 inches at Delhi, and 8.50 inches at
Burdett, which had 10.50 in 2 days and 11.70 in 4. Cortland, near-by,
had 11.54 inches July 7-10. Record-breaking floods occurred in spite
of dry ground and low streams. Very moist tropical Atlantic and
tropical Gulf air streams rapidly converged over this region and were
forced upward by converging polar continental and polar Atlantic air
streams in an evenly balanced action which held the polar Atlantic
front with attendant thunderstorms stalled near the crest of the divide
for about 24 hours.

83 For an account of the flood in the Connecticut Valley see Goldthwait, J. W., The gathering of floods in
the Connecticut River System, Geogr. Rev., vol. 18, pp. 438-445, 1928. For details as to the causes of the
November floods see Weber, J. H., and Brooks, C. F., The weather-map story of the flooding rainstorm of
New England and adjoining regions, November 3-4, 1927, Journ. New England Water Works Assn., vol. 42,
pp. 91-103, 1928, reprinted in vol. 20, pp. 106-118, 1930. For the rainfall and comparison with other flooding
storms in New England see Goodnough, X. H., Rainfall in New England during the storm of November 3
and 4, 1927, vol. 42, pp. 150-188, vol. 44, pp. 119-156, 1927. For a general account, see Frankenfield, H. C.,
November floods in New England and eastern New York, Monthly Weather Rev., vol. 55, pp. 496-499,
maps, 1927. Cf. also Byers, loc. cit., p. 212.

34 Brooks, C. F., Hurricanes into New England: Meteorology of the storm of September 21, 1938, Geogr.
Rey., vol. 29, pp. 119-127, 1939. Cf. also Byers, loc. cit., pp. 212-213.

35 Johnson, Hollister, The New York State flood of July 1935, U.S. Geol. Surv. Water-Supply Paper 773-E,
Washington, pp. 233-268, 1936. The meteorological history of this storm was fully discussed by T. E. Reed,
in the Binghamton (N. Y.) Press, July 23, 1935, maps and diagrams, and by C. L. Mitchell in Monthly
Weather Rev., vol, 63, p. 231, 1935, and (reprinted) in Johnson’s paper, loc. cit., in which is also a discussion

by J. C. Fisher of the rainfall. Mr. Fisher also has an account in Climatological Data, U. 8. Weather
Bureau, New York Section, July 1935.
FLOODS—BROOKS AND THIESSEN 347

THE SOUTHERN APPALACHIAN AND SOUTHEASTERN FLOODS OF
JULY 1916

Two slowly moving hurricanes went to pieces in the southern Appa-
lachians July 10 and 15. The combination of exceedingly moist
tropical air converging at hurricane velocities for several days over
the southeastern United States produced rainfalls generally in excess
of 8 inches, and over considerable areas in excess of 20. Altapass,
N. C., where topography augmented normal hurricane processes in
forcing air upward, recorded a fall of 22.22 inches in 24 hours.*
Excessive though this was, it is far exceeded by the 24-hour fall of
45.99 inches, with which an 88-inch four-day rainstorm began, as a
severe typhoon reached Baguio, in the highlands of Luzon, P. L.,
July 14-15, 1911.7 The maximum 5- and 10-day rainfalls in 1916
were 24.45 and 31.07 inches.

CONCLUSION

Great floods may occur in the eastern United States at any time of
the year, for there is always an extensive warm-water surface near
by, from which great volumes of vapor may be transported, while,
not far distant, throughout the year there are cold surfaces to furnish
moving wedges of cold air to elevate the tropical air. The polar air
masses engage the tropical masses normally every few days, and rains
fall. The great floods occur, however, only when a persistent high
over the western Atlantic sends the tropical air inland for days in
succession, and then only when the polar masses meet and elevate the
tropical air over the same area or region for one to several days in
succession or on repeated occasions. ‘Topography plays an important
role in determining where slowly moving fronts will ‘stall: sometimes
even minor divides are effective. Snow cover seldom contributes
much to great floods, though by helping to keep cold air masses cold
it may contribute to stalling and to the maintenance of the tempera-
ture contrast between the cold and the warm air masses.

What can man do about great floods?** He cannot change the
amount of rain that will fall; but he can change the rate at which it
will run off. He cannot change the amount of snow that will fall; but
by dense evergreen foliage he can hinder it from reaching the ground
and, once on the ground, from being converted into rapid run-off.
Once the water is running off, he can hold back some of it by numerous
dams on small streams and by larger dams below; and, by adequate

86 Henry, A. J., Floods in the East Gulf and South Atlantic States, July 1916. Monthly Weather Rev.,
vol. 44, pp. 466-476, 1916.

37 Cf, Co-Ching Chu, Distribution of precipitation in China during the typhoons of the summer of 1911.
Monthly Weather Rev., vol. 44, p. 446, 1916.

88 A symposium on recent eastern floods and the national aspects of flood control held in Pittsburgh Octo-
ber 13 and 14, 1936, is summarized in Civil Engineering, vol. 7, pp. 25-32, 1937, and published in full in the
March issue of Proceedings of the American Society of Civil Engineers.
348 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938

measurements of rainfall and condition of the ground and by a rapid
system of collecting reports, he can compute in advance when and how
high the waters will rise. He can confine the rivers by levees, but he
must provide for temporary diversion of excess waters over capacious
lowlands. He can straighten the stream channels to hasten the water
on its way but, without great care, such relief upstream may mean
a greater flood downstream. The operation of control dams and
diversions could be more intelligently directed if great rains could be
foreseen more than a day or two in advance. This is not impossible,
and studies in long-range forecasting are already rather promising.
But whatever success may be attainable in weather and river-stage
forecasting the main point to bear in mind is that 10-inch rains do
fall, sometimes in a few hours, and that if man does not control the
speed with which the water reaches the streams and then whither it
goes floods will devastate the valleys.
EYES THAT SHINE AT NIGHT

By Ernest P. WALKER
Assistant Director, National Zoological Park

[With one plate]

The “shining” of eyes at night by the reflection of light is a com-
mon and generally fairly well known natural phenomenon of which
little has been recorded except incidentally in accounts of hunting and
of campfire scenes. The shining of the cat’s eyes at night by reflected
light is probably the best known of all eye reflections. The eyes of
human beings very rarely shine. There are, however, occasional re-
ports of the shining of a human being’s eyes, and I have heard of one
instance of a person being shot at night because his eyes shone.
These, however, I have not verified.

While studying the condition and activity of small mammals in the
recently completed Small-Mammal House in the National Zoological
Park, I became interested in the different kinds of reflections obtained
from the eyes of different animals and proceeded to make inquiry from
naturalists and to search for literature on the subject.

In A Survey of Nocturnal Vertebrates in the Kartabo Region of
British Guiana, Crawford! refers to the glow of eyes and lists the
kinkajou, jaguar, puma, ocelot, yaguaroundi, margay, opossum, three
species of toads of the genus Bufo, and the giant goatsucker Nyctibius.
He does not refer to the colors and does not mention the caimans which
inhabit that general region and whose eyes give perhaps the most pro-
nounced and beautiful glow I have observed.

A. J. Van Rossem ? lists 28 species of birds observed by him or
recorded by others as “shining.” He also refers to light reflections
from the eyes of insects, spiders, and domestic animals. In this paper
he lists 3 manuscripts and 5 publications recording eye shines, and
brings out points that should be studied by future students of the
subject. No other published material on the shining of the eyes of
vertebrates has come to my attention.

Examinations of the eyes of various animals as well as those of man
by use of the opthalmoscope have been made by several writers, nota-
bly Johnson * and Wood.‘ Both authors picture the surface of the

1Crawford, S. C., A survey of nocturnal vertebrates in the Kartabo region of British Guiana. Journ.
Animal Ecol., vol. 2, p. 282, November 1933.

2Van Rossem, A. J., Eye shine in birds, with notes on the feeding habits of some goatsuckers. The Con-
dor, vol. 29, pp. 25-28, January 1927.

4Johnson, G. L., Contributions to the comparative anatomy of the mammalian eye, chiefly based on

ophthalmoscopic examination. Proc. Roy. Soc. London, ser. B, vol. 194, 1901.
‘Wood, C. A., The fundus oculi of birds, especially as viewed by the ophthalmoscope. Chicago, 1917.

349
350 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938

retina as revealed to them through the opthalmoscope. These pic-
tures, however, might be compared to the view that would be obtained
by standing outside a dark room and projecting a beam of light onto
the walls of the room, thereby revealing the color and other features
of the walls to the observer standing outside. This is quite different
from the “shining” of eyes, which merely brings back toward the
observer diverging rays of colored light like small incandescent lights
seen from a distance.

Information on the “shining of eyes” is so meager that it appears
justifiable to record my observations in the hope that someone may
be able to use them as a foundation for further studies. While eyes of
animals in the wild are frequently observed at night, the name of the
owner of the eyes is often unknown, and there is little likelihood that
the same individual can be observed again under similar conditions.
A zoo is unexcelled for this purpose as it permits one to study many
different kinds of animals under more or less constant conditions and
to observe repeatedly the same individuals.

In obtaining my observations I used a reflecting head lamp, similar
to a hand flashlight, worn on my forehead connected by a cord to a
three-cell battery in a pocket or on my belt. Flashlights carried in
the hand were used at times but were not entirely satisfactory as the
rays of the light must closely parallel the line of sight of the observer
in order to obtain reflections from the greatest number of species and
uniform results. The best results are obtained with a light of moder-
ate intensity. If it is too bright, the shining is less conspicuous or
does not show at all. Four main points are observable in every case.
They are:

(a) Whether or not the eyes reflect light.

(b) If they reflect, the color of the reflection and whether the color
is individually constant or variable; also whether or not it varies in
different individuals of a species.

(c) Whether the reflection is dull, medium, or brilliant.

(d) The angle from which reflections are obtainable, i. e., whether
it is necessary for the observer to be opposite the center of the eye,
or if the reflection can be obtained from behind the animal and in
front of it, as well as directly opposite the center of the line of vision.
This might be considered as wide or narrow angle of reflection.

For the sake of brevity the data given in the appended list relates
almost entirely to observations on (b) and (ce).

The description of colors in words and the indication of varying
degrees of brilliance or paleness are so difficult that the observations
herein recorded can in general indicate only relative differences
between animals.

The word ‘glow’ is sometimes used to describe the character of
the reflections. This term can well be used for the reflections given
EYES THAT SHINE AT NIGHT—WALKER 351

off by the eyes of alligators, crocodiles, and caimans; “‘shining’’ their
eyes gives one the impression that he is looking into a brilliantly
glowing pinkish opening in a dull surfaced bed of coal. In the
majority of mammalian eyes observed I have gained the impression
of looking at a highly polished metal surface. Sometimes the effect
is likened to looking into an incandescent globe of the color indicated.
Often pronounced light rays appear to emanate from the eyes. In
some eyes, such as those of the smaller rodents, the effect is that of
looking into an illuminated piece of amber.

To assist the reader to understand the character of the reflections,
a colored drawing has been prepared for a few animals, to show some
of the range of reflections obtained. Efforts were made to produce
a plate that would show not only the colors but the glow or brilliance
of the eyes, but several artists were unable to produce the effect even
on an original and, had they done so, it is doubtful whether it could
have been reproduced. The proper effect could undoubtedly be well
simulated by placing small incandescent lights behind translucent
spots of the right color on an opaque background. Indeed, the
brilliance of the reflections is as impossible to show as is the gleam
from snow in sunlight. At my suggestion, Mr. Fred Adams of the
Dufaycolor, Inc., New York City, experimented in taking a few color
pictures by photoflash. The results as to eye shine, though not
entirely satisfactory, are promising.

The illustration shows the eyes in pairs, and as disks. Frequently,
however, only a single eye is seen, or in some instances, depending
on the position, both eyes are seen as ovals or crescents, or other
modifications of a true circle. In practically all species, however, it
is possible to obtain the shine in both eyes simultaneously to some
extent, even though they are not perfect circles.

A confusing factor is the circumstance that different persons
apparently see the reflections as quite different colors. One person
who is usually good in recognizing colors by daylight insists that the
reflections are without color. Others have described or painted for
me their conception of some of the reflections much more reddish
than I see them.

I have made no experiment designed to prove which surface of
the eye produces the reflections. In the case of the animals that
have eyes that “glow” or are like amber it appears that we look into
the eye through the pupil as if the reflection came from the front
surface of the retina. In those animals that give a reflection as from
polished metal I gain no impression of looking into the eye. In most
of these cases, however, the reflection is not obtainable closer than
8 to 20 feet—a distance that prevents one from observing which
surface reflects. The reflections of alligators, crocodiles, and caimans
can be seen when the observer is within a foot of the animal. In
302 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938

most animals, other than man and the higher primates, the retina
has an extra coat or layer, the tapetum lucidium. This may be the
reflecting surface.

The editor of the Journal of the Bombay Natural History Society
(vol. 31, No. 1, p. 221) makes a brief comment regarding a short
article by A. A. Dunbar Brander relative to the source of color in
the eye of the gaur, which reads:

In volume IV of the Society’s Journal the late Mr. J. D. Inverarity came to
the same conclusion as Mr. Dunbar Brander and pointed out that the blue
colouring of the gaur’s eye is due to the tapetum lucidium—the lining to a greater
or less extent of the back part of the choroid membrane of the eye which, in the
gaur, is of a lovely peacock-blue color. It is this membrane which causes an
animal’s eye to shine in the dark. In the human eye it is opaque and black.

The eyes of most domesticated and some wild animals deteriorate
in captivity so that the vision may become very poor. Defective eyes
have been apparent in a few of the cases observed.

At the suggestion of Dr. Earl S. Johnston, of the Smithsonian Insti-
tution, Division of Radiation and Organisms, beams of red and blue
light have been projected into the eyes. These rays were obtained
by fastening a single thickness of red or blue Cellophane over the
flashlight lens. Over 40 species of mammals, reptiles, and amphibians
were examined under the red rays, but there was very little variation
in colors of the reflected light from various animals other than the
addition of a red tinge. They varied from a dull reddish amber
through reddish silver to reddish gold, the differences being mainly
those of brilliance. Observations on 30 species of mammals and rep-
tiles gave similar results with blue rays, the reflections ranging from
dull and pale bluish silver to blue-green and blue, with the metallic
luster persisting in those species that give brilliant reflections under
normal light. The reflections from the crocodilians were partially
opalescent. The characteristics of the responses to colored lights indi-
cate that fluorescence does not account for the response to the rays of
the torch. Reflection is left as the only probable source of the return
light.

In some animals the color of the ‘shine’ is constant whereas in
others it may appear as three different colors in a few seconds, while in
some instances the color is constant for each observation but may be
different on different days.

It has been suggested that the change is caused by the animal’s
changing the direction of its eyes. In some cases this is true, but in
others I have been unable to detect any change in the position of the
eye, and since most animals change their line of sight mainly by moving
the head rather than rolling the eyes it is probable that a change that
would alter the reflected light would be detected in movement of the
head. Most of the bears that I have observed swing their heads from
side to side without changing the color of the reflections from their eyes.
EYES THAT SHINE AT NIGHT—WALKER 353

A few animals, notably the binturong and the golden cat, close their
eyes very quickly when the beam of light is directed at them. Most,
however, stare directly at the light or move the head only slightly.

Of the monkeys, no shine was detected from the eyes of orangutans,
chimpanzees, gibbons, macaques, langurs, baboons, and marmosets.
A faint suggestion of a shine was detected in the ring-tailed lemur. On
the other hand, the eyes of the slow loris and the potto gave the most
brilliant reflections of all eyes observed. Mr. A. J. Van Rossem once
told me he had seen the eyes of spider monkeys shine.

My observations suggest that the majority of rodent eyes shine but
dully in browns, hazel or amber, but the porcupines are an exception—
their eyes are very brilliant—generally silvery and reflecting through a
wide angle.

In the case of snakes, one is sometimes tempted to mistake the shine
from thesurface of thescale over the eye (the brille) for the true reflection
of the eye.

These studies have been more fruitful of unsolved questions than of
answers. Some of the questions are:

1. Do the animals possess vision over a wide cone or only over that
cone in which reflections may be obtained? If the former is the case,
it indicates that such animals as the hippopotamus and Old World
porcupines can see in practically any direction except for a narrow
angle directly behind them. Others have a very narrow angle of vision.

2. What is the difference between eyes that shine and those that do
not?

3. What produces the different colors of reflections?

4, What changes take place in an eye that cause it to give differently
colored reflections in quick succession?

5. What is the explanation of the fact that eyes that do not change
colors quickly give quite different colored reflections on different dates?

6. Why do some eyes that give reflections at a distance beyond 8
to 10 feet fail to give any when viewed at a lesser distance?

In the following list the occurrence of the letters C., or C. and E.,
indicate that the observations were made by Jeremiah A. Collins or
Collins and Arthur L. Edwards, National Zoological Park policemen,
while on night duty. This opportunity is taken to thank them for
their assistance. The mark / between notes indicates different dates
of observation. Some of the animals have been observed many times.
The figures in parentheses indicate the number of individuals observed.

MAMMALS
MARSUPIALIA
DIDELPHIDAE:

Virginia opossum (Didelphis virginiana) ------- Dull orange.

Zorro or banana opossum (Metachirus opos-

0) eee ee ee ees Silvery to pale amber.
MACROPODIDAE:

Tree kangaroo (Dendrolagus inustus) (2)------ Dull deep red amber. / Deep reddish orange. / Red
dish orange and blood red.
354 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938

EXPLANATION OF PLATE 1

Golden cat Small-toothed palm civet
Profelis temmincki Paradoxurus hermaphrodytus

Javan mouse deer

‘ : Do. (Same individual)
Tragulus javanicus

Alligator

Alligator mississipiensis Gg ey |

Slow loris Prehensile-tailed porcupine
Nycticebus coucang Coendou prehensilis

Lesser tiger cat Kangaroo rat

Felis pardinoides Dipodomys merriami
Malay porcupine Great Basin pocket mouse

Acanthion brachyurum Perognathus parvus
Smithsonian Report, 1938.—Walker PLATE 1

SOME ANIMAL EYES THAT SHINE AT NIGHT.
Reproduction of painting by Mrs. Helen Conger, W. P. A. artist, from direct observations.

‘
a =e 2
-¢
i 7
4 = q
ef) a 1
a
Ly
a
Qo
a
' . 4
Ss
\
ay
uy be y
°
i
“

fas

3 77
’
f ‘
- f
}
4"
oe
Bw * i f
‘ “ 5
Ftc ¥
= %
(li +
5
. Aint
mony
i er ,
5
¥
' Pa
tw ts)
f
v
)

EYES THAT SHINE AT NIGHT—WALKER 355

CARNIVORA
FELIDAE:
Cheetah (Acinonyz jubata)_.-..-.....--------=. Green. C.
Puma, (Melisconcolor) (8) 222-22-=2222652----b Ss Pale green to silvery-gold.
Palon Cielieile0) or sag sec ewank-Seeetnce Golden. C.
Uganda wild tabby (Felis ocreata)..-..------.. Green changing to slightly golden. / Green then silvery.
VACTIAT CE ELIS ONCO)— 2. Se ee eh es a ee Golden. C.
Ocelot Grelismardalis) ico 522 ae sacenseecete- = Bright golden. C.
Lesser tiger cat (Felis pardinoides) (1)--------- Green with occasional silvery tinge. Reflection ob-

tained when rays are at a wide angle from eye.
East African leopard (Felis pardus suahelicus). Green. C.

Siberian tiger (Felis tigris longipilis) (2)_------ Pale green. / Silver. C.
Garacal'(Gynzicaracal) 222 -02- 2-52 s22522-2- Greenish gold.
Bay lynx (giz rufus), (2) 5 22 ss— a =o Se Green and silvery.
Bay or golden cat (Profelis temmincki) (2)----- Dull orange. / Silvery. / Repeatedly observed, usually
pale golden.
VIVERRIDAE:
Binturong (Arctictis binturong)---------------- Green changing to salmon pink then yellow. / Yellow. /

Silvery to golden, but shut eyes quickly. / Brilliant
silver and light green. / Opalescent.

CIV PUA GIVELLICES CIDE) oan nee een ee Pale green, silver, orange, depending on angle.
Neumann’s genet (Genetia dongalana neu-

SLEEEET 1 Vo eee Ae Rt BS hg ds SIAR a oe ep so Pale green and silver. / Clear light green.
Civet (Moschothera megaspila)__-.---------.-- Silver, yellow, and occasional green.

Palm civet (Paradozurus hermaphrodytus) (3). Green, then amber. / Pale blue-green then golden. /
Golden and silver. / Green, then golden, then silver.
1 dull and 1 brilliant. / Green then golden.

CANIDAE:
@Ooyote(Ganisitatrans) (4)2-2-- = = Brilliant golden. / Golden. / Golden and light greenish.
/ Constant brilliant blue-green. / Green and silvery.
Albino coyote (Canis latrans) (2)..------------ Golden and greenish. / Very small, variable orange to
silvery and green.
Timber wolf (Canis lupus lycaon)_------------ Green, then silvery.
Wolf (Canis lupus nubilus) (5)._-------------. Orange, silvery, and green. / Orange, golden, and occa-
Wolf and dog hybrid (Canis lupus nubilus aaeeeee
MUIESTIC ILA eee tne ee ee ae Usually light golden silvery. Occasionally green.
Texas red wolf (Canis rufus) (7)--------------- Variable. Brilliant golden, sometimes tinged with
reddish. Sometimes silvery. Often blue-green.
Changes due to position.
Maned wolf (Chrysocyon jubata).__.----------- Golden. C.
Sumatran wild dog (Cuon javanicus suma-
PH RELIST) VS tag a eer pce eal cre Sed Ola Green. C.
Red fox (Vulpes fulea) (4)-.--+-222-.-_=-.-2-_- One animal with one large brilliant reddish gold eye
= and one very small and dull. Three others faint
peor ania: greenish silvery; silvery and golden; all brilliant.
Gray coatimundi (Nasua narica) (2)...-----_- Blue green, silvery to gold. / Green and silvery.
Kinkajou (Potos flavus) (3)_......---.-----_--_- Light bright gold; golden, then green. / Brilliant deep
gold, occasionally with green tinge. / Golden. / Bril-
liant orange to gold. Slight difference between 2
animals observed.
Black raccoon (Procyon lotor) (3).-....-------- Medium amber. / Pale green. / Silvery and later light
yellow. Did not shine, then green.
Albino raccoon (Procyon lotor) (1)_---------_-- Very pale yellow.
Normal raccoon (Procyon lotor).-....-.-----_- Very pale yellow.
BASSARISCIDAE:
Ring-tail or cacomistle (Bassariscus astutus) (2). Green, silvery, orange.
MUSTELIDAE:
Hog badger (Arctonyr collaris) (2)_....---_---- Brassy tosilvery. Fairly brilliant. / Silver to light gold.
Asiatic marten (Charronia flavigula henricii)_.. Blue-green. / Green. / Green.
White tayra (Galictis barbara barbara) (2).----- Dull silvery to light orange.
Alaskan otter (Lutra canadensis)_.-..-----_-__ Light amber.
Florida otter (Lutra canadensis vaga)___.-__--- Silvery to amber. / Silver. / Brilliant pale yellow both
in water and out.
Skunk (Mephitis nigra) (4).-.--.--.._.--_____- Bright deep amber. / Gold.
Small-clawed otter (Micraonyz leptonyz)...-.. Pale yellow to light amber. / Light golden to silvery.
Ferret (Mustela eversmanni)-....-_.--.-_----- Blue-green to silver.
Mink (Mustela vison vison)_..-..-....-..---__- Yellow and green.

Florida spotted skunk (Spilogale ambarvalis)_. Very ight amber. / Silver to light amber.
114728—39 24

356 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938

CARNIVORA—Continued

URSIDAE:
Glacier bear (Huarctos emmonsii)._...__.---__- Silver tinged with golden.
Polar bear (Thalarctos maritimus)_...._-____-- Silver tinged with very pale blue. Like a star.
Hybrid bear (Thalarctos maritimus X Ursus
yas) (See Lee ee ee ee Greenish silvery and blue-green.
Kidder’s bear (Ursus kidderi)......_--..-.---- Golden-silvery to deep gold.
PINNIPEDIA
OTARIIDAE:
California sea lion (Zalophus californianus)_... Very dull pale amber.
PHOCIDAE:
Pacific harbor seal (Phoca richardii) (2)_----__- Golden.
PRIMATES
CALLITRICHIDAE:
Black-tailed marmoset (Mico argentata)____-_- None.
CERCOPITHECIDAE:
Javan macaque (Macaca mordaz)_-____-.__--- None.
LEMURIDAE:
Ring-tailed lemur (Lemur catta) (2).----_--_.- Dull pale amber. / One golden and one light gold. /
Golden.
Slow loris (Nycticebus coucang) (3)----------_- Brilliant amber. / Brilliant deep red amber. / Brilliant
deep red gold. / Deep amber. / Amber.
PotboCParodicitcts 20010) casee esses ere Brilliant faint-greenish to very pale lemon. ;
RODENTIA
SCIURIDAE:
Sumatran tricolored squirrel (Callosciurus
MELUNODE) Ta) conse ecces tere e a eee eee Dull pale amber.
Albino woodchuck or groundhog (Marmota
MONGL) ease neta ete coe eect en ee een ee ee Orange.
Javan giant squirrel (Ratufa bicolor)_..____--_- Red amber.
Rock squirrel (Giatwaisp,)\-2- 222-5 eee ooen Dull deep orange.
Lesser white squirrel (Sciwrus finlaysoni) Dull pale amber. / Light golden.
(4).
Hoffman’s squirrel (Sciurus hoffmani sub. sp.)
(Bete Soe eee ee ee es Dull light brown.
Fox squirrel] (Sciurus niger, dark phase) -_---_-- Red amber. / Deep orange.
HETEROMYIDAE:
Merriam’s silky pocket mouse (Perognathus ;
merriamt merriami) (2)-...-.-.2...-_.----___ Medium amber, medium bright.
JACULIDAE:
Egyptian jerboa (Jaculus jaculus) (5)_-------- Pale amber. / Very pale amber.
CRICETIDAE:
Woodrat (Neotoma micropus) ..--------------- Pale yellow amber. / Light dull amber.
White-footed mouse (Peromyscus leucopus) (2). Dull amber. / Dull amber. :
Cotton rat (Sigmodon hispidus)_._.--_-------- Dull deep amber.
MURIDAE:
Gambia pouched rat (Cricetomys gambianus)
2) ee ee ee ee ee ee Oe Sas Dull orange.
Bamboo rat (Notocleptes sumatrensis)_____--_- Pale amber. / None.
Grasshopper mouse (Onychomys leucogaster)_-. Dull amber.
DIPODIDAE:
Kangaroo rat (Dipodomys merriami) ___.------ Dull pale amber.
Kangaroo mouse (Microdipodops pallidus) _--_- Dull pale amber.
HYSTRICIDAE:

Malay porcupine (Acanthion brachyurwm) (3). Brilliant silvery orange (reflect in scant light). / Bright
light silver. Reflect at wide angle from light source
and over wide angle.

African brush-tailed porcupine (Atherurus

africana) (2): 2225-5 _eee oe es ee eee Very bright silver to very pale yellow.
Fast African porcupine (Hystrix galeata) (2)... Medium amber. / Orange when first awakened; silvery.
Brush-tailed porcupine (Thecurus sumatrae) (2). Brilliant silvery. Shine in scant light.
ERETHIZONTIDAE:
Prehensile-tailed porcupine (Coendou prehen-
SILER) Oe aE ES Pee LLC LA OE ANOLE 5 Light orange. Visible from very wide angle. / Golden
to light yellow both close up and at a distance.
MYOCASTORIDAE:
Coypu rat (Myorastor coypu) (2)-------------- Dull silver tinged with gold.
EYES THAT SHINE AT NIGHT—WALKER ; 357

RoOpDENTIA—Continued

CAPROMYIDAE:

Hutia (Capromys pilorides) (8)_--------------- Dull medium amber. / Deep reddish orange. / Deep
golden or reddish orange.

CUNICULIDAE:
Central American paca (Cuniculus paca vir-
UES) oe ae ee ee ee ees Dark red amber, moderate brilliance. / Deep golden.
DASYPROCTIDAE:
Agouti (Dasyprocta croconota prymnolopha) (2). Dull orange.
HYDROCHOERIDAE:
Capybara (Hydrochoerus hydrochoerus)_-__---- Dull hazel. / Brown eye but no reflection.
LAGOMORPHA
LEPORIDAE:

Varying hare or snowshoe rabbit (Lepus amer-

{CONUS er eee oe ee eee oe Medium amber, medium brilliance. / Orange.
ARTIODACTYLA
ROVIDAE:

Aoudad (Ammotragus lervia)_..-..__...-_----- Silver. C.

Anoa (Anoa depressicornis)...-_.....---_------ Brownish red. C.

Gaur (Chibos Gaurus) (2) 22a nee Brilliant gold. / Silver. C.

Gayal'(Bositronialis).<-=. 52-2252 ee ee Gold. C.

White-tailed gnu (Connochaetes gnu) (2)_---_-- Brilliant greenish-silver.

African buffalo (Synceros caffer) (2)...-------- Bright silvery greenish gold. / Silver. C.

TRAGULIDAE:

Javan mouse deer (Tragulus javanicus)_.------ Copper, silvery, pale green. / Brilliant silvery with pale
blue-green tinge. / Greenish silver, then golden. Re-
flects over wide angle and when light is directed at

anrerstie: wide angle. Brilliant.
AXIS KOOORICA 718 O18) oo sae eee Silvery with faint greenish tinge. / Pale amber.
Barasingha deer (Cervus duvaucellii)_---___.-_- Green, silver, and gold.
Barking deer (Muntiacus javanica).------_---- Golden. O.
Barking deer (Muntiacus sinicus)_...----.---- Female, 1 eye gold, leyesilver. C.
CAMELIDAE:

Tlama (ia magia ma)a25- sees scene aacec eee Orange, / Orange.
GIRAFFIDAE:

Giraffe (Giraffa camelopardalis) (4)_----------- Greenish silvery gold. / Bright silver. C.
HIPPOPOTAMIDAE:

Pigmy hippopotamus (Choeropsis liberiensis).._. Gold (wide angle). / Brownish red. C,
Hippopotamus (/7ippopotamus amphibius)-_.. Gold (very wide angle)./ Gold. C.

PERISSODACTYLA
EQUIDAE:
Asiatic wild ass or kiang (Equus onager).---.. Silvery, pale amber. Wide angle. / Silver.
Mongolian wild horse (Equus przewalskii)__._ Silver. / Silvery, pale amber.
Chapman’s zebra (Equus quagga chapmani)___ Brilliant silver with gold tinge. / Silver. C.
Mountain zebra (Equus zebra)._--------.----- Dull silver.
TAPIRIDAE:
Asiatic tapir (Acrocodia indicus) -....---------- Brilliant gold. / Brownish red. C.
Baird’s tapir (Tapirella bairdii)..-._...----_-- Brilliant gold. / Brownish red. C.
Brazilian tapir (Tapirus terrestris)_._.-_..-_-_-- Rubyred. C.
RHINOCEROTIDAE:
Black rhinoceros (Diceros bicornis)_.._-------- Dullred. C.
PROBOSCIDEA
ELEPHANTIDAE:
Sumatran elephant (Zlephas sumatranus)-_.---- Red. C.

African elephant (Lorodonta africana oryotis)_._. Palesilvery./ Red. C.

EDENTATA

CHOLOEPODIDAE:

T wo-toed sloth (Choloepus didactylus)_-_..._-- Brightred. C.
DASYPODIDAE:

Six-banded armadillo (Dasypus sercinctus)_-_.- Light dull brown.

BIRDS
CASUARIIFORMES

CASUARIIDAE:

Cassowary (Caswariussp.)..._-.-.---.---.---- Amber. C.
358 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938

CASUARUFORMES—Continued

DROMICEIIDAE:
Common emu (Dromiceius novaehollandiae).... Dullamber.

SPHENISCIFORMES
SPHENISCIDAE:
Jackass penguin (Spheniscus demersus)_-.----- Gold. C.

PELECANIFORMES

PHALACROCORACIDAE:
Flightless cormorant (Nannopterum harrisi)._.. Dull pale amber.
Farallon cormorant (Phalacrocorar auritus

al bactinttvs yee ee ae et Aa aa Brilliant silver.
Florida cormorant (Phalacrocorar auritus flori-
LUGS) a Ns a ek ne Gold. C
FREGATIDAE:
Lesser frigate bird (/regata ariel)_....-...____- Silver. C.
CICONUFORMES
ARDEIDAE:
American egret (Casmerodius albus egretia)_.. Silver. O.
Snowy egret (Egretta thula)....-..------------ Gold and silver. C.

Louisiana heron (Hydranassa tricolor ruficollis). Gold and silver. O.
Black-crowned night heron (Nycticorax nycti-

CONUS MACS) Ses ener eae Silver.

COCHLEARIIDAE:

Boatbill heron (Cochlearius cochleariws)_.--_-_- Silvery pale gold. Rubyred. C.
BALAENICIPITIDAE:

Shoe-bill stork (Balaeniceps rer) _.-.._..--.---- Amber. C.
SCOPIDAE:

Hammerhead (Scopus umbretta)..--..-------- Silver. O.
CICONIIDAE:

Woolly-necked stork (Dissoura episcopus)__-_-- Silver. O.

Saddle-billed stork (Hphippiorhynchus senega-

LENSER) Ro eee eS eae 2 eee ne a ae Bright gold. C.
Malay stork (Ibis cinereus)___.._........------ Silver. C.
Indian adjutant (Leptoptilus dubius)_._..----- Gold. C.

THRESKIORNITHIDAE:
Roseate spoonbill (Afaia ajaja)_..-..-.-------- Ruby red. C.
PHOENICOPTERIDAE:

Chilean flamingo (Phoenicopterus chilensis).... Ruby red. C.

ANSERIFORMES

ANATIDAE:

Wood duck (Aiz sponsa)_-.-...-._--.-.-----.- Silvery gold.

Black-bellied tree duck (Dendrocygna autumn-

(AEE) es lps RR ra aE a ee a pS ae be de Gold to silver. C.
FALCONIFORMES

CATHARTIDAE: :

California condor (Gymnogyps californianus)__ Faint pale gold.
ACCIPITRIDAE:

Red-tailed hawk (Buteo borealis)_...-..-.----- No reflection. / None.

Red-shouldered hawk (Buteo lineatus).------- Faint silvery.

GALLIFORMES

MEGAPODIIDAE:

Molucca megapode (Megapodius freycineti)_... Gold. C.
CRACIDAE:

Panama curassow (Craz rubra) _--..----------- Bright gold. ©.
PHASIANIDAE:

Chukar partridge (Alectoris graeca)_.-..-_----. Gold. C.

Argus pheasant (Argusianus argus)__-.------- Silver. / Bright gold. C.

Cheer pheasant (Catreus wallichii)_-_....------ Gold. C.

Migratory quail (Coturniz coturniz)_...-..---- Silver. C.

Jungle fow] (Gallus gallus) _........---------.- Gold. C.

Green peafowl (Pavo muticus)-.....---------- Bright gold. C.

Ring-necked pheasant (Phasianus torguatus).. Silvery to pale brass.
EYES THAT SHINE AT NIGHT—WALKER 359

GRUIFORMES
QRUIDAE:
Demoiselle crane (Anthropoides virgo) _-_.----- Silvery to pale brass./ Gold. C.
Sandhill crane (Grus canadensis tabida) .-..--.-- Silvery to pale brass.
PSOPHIIDAE:
Gray-backed trumpeter (Psophia crepitans)... Amber. C.
HALLIDAE:

New Zealand mud hen (Porphyrio melanotus).. Silver. C.
Gray-headed porphyrio (Porphyrio poliocepha-

Bia) a8 = Se Be ee ee ee eee ee Silver. O.
CHARADRIFORMES
HAEMATOPODIDAE:
European oyster catcher (Haematopus ostrale-
(FU S) en ee eee ee Gold. O.
CHARADRIIDAE:
South American Lapwing (Belonopterus cayen-
METINtE) Eee ee So ee ee Silver. C.
LARIDAE:
Silver gull (Larus novaehollandiae) (50)_------- No shine. / No shine.
COLUMBIFORMES
COLUMBIDAE:
Nicobar pigeon (Caloenas nicobarica)__-.------ Silver. C,
Archangel pigeon (Columbia livia) (domestic)... Gold. C.
Victoria crowned pigeon (Goura victoria)__---- Gold. C.
PSITTACIFORMES
PSITTACIDAE:

Yellow-naped parrot (Amazona auropalliata).. Gold. E.and C.
Double yellow-head parrot (Amazona orairiz).. Gold. E.and CO.

Illiger’s macaw (Ara maracana)_-------------- Gold. E.and C.
Mexican green macaw (Ara mericana)__..___-- Gold. E.and C.
Banksian cockatoo (Calyptorhynchus mag-

WE ONS) oni etn mee ees ananeeoene Seeneaes Silver. E. and C.

Sulphur-crested cockatoo (Kakatoe galerita)._._. Silver. E. and C.
Leadbeater’s cockatoo (Kakaioe leadbeateri)._... Silver. E.and O.
Slender-billed cockatoo (Kakatoe tenuirostris)__ Silver. E.and C.

Cockatiel (Leptolophus novaehollandicus) ___.-- Gold. E. and C.
Quaker paroquet (Myopsita monachus)_-- ---- Gold. E.and C.
Kramer’s paroquet (Psittacula krameri)_._---- Gold. E.and C.

Long-tailed paroquet (Psittacula longicauda)._.. Gold. E.and C.

STRIGIFORMES
STRIGIDAE:
Great horned ow] (Bubo virginianus)_-_--.---- Orange, medium brilliance. / Different individuals:
greenish silvery gold; medium brilliance; golden red.
Sereech ow! (O/usiasio)=.2--- 22. 822 Se Ruby red.
Barred owl \GStrig/ogria)ea-8 ae ee Orange, brilliant. / Fairly brilliant deep gold.
CAPRIMULGIFORMES
PODARGIDAE:
Tawny frogmouth (Podargus strigoides)__...__ Ruby red. C.
CORACIIFORMES
ALCEDINIDAE:
Kookaburra (Dacelo gigas) ....---.------------ Gold. C.
MOMOTIDAE:
Motmot (Momotus momotus parensis)_-.-_---- Gold. CO.
BUCEROTIDAE:
Long-crested hornbil] (Berenicornis comatus).. Amber. O.
Rhinoceros hornbill (Buceros rhinoceros) ____-- Green gold. C,
Abyssinian ground hornbill (Bucorvus abyssin-
SOULS) eee oh Cee ee eS EE a ce Gold. C,

Concave casque hornbill (Dichoceros bicornis)_. Gold. O.
Pied hornbill (Hydrocissa convera)...--------- Silver. O.
360 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938

PICIFORMES

RAMPHASTIDAE:

Toco toucan (Ramphastos toco)_.._------_----- Silver. C.

PASSERIFORMES

CORVIDAE:

American crow (Corvus brachyrhynchos) ______- Silver. C.

Australian crow (Corvus coronoides)_.___--__-- Silver. C.
PARADISEIDAE:

Lesser bird of paradise (Paradisea minor)_.___. Gold. C.

Red bird of paradise (Paradisea rubra) -_---_-- Gold. C.

12-wired bird of paradise (Seleucides niger).... Gold. C.
STURNIDAE:

Glossy aplonis (Aplonis chalybea)__.---------- Ruby red. C.
ICTERIDAE:

Cuban red-winged blackbird (Agelaius assim-

BLS) eee eee ae ee oe ee ee Silver. C
REPTILES
LORICATA

CROCODYLIDAE:

Alligator (Alligator mississipiensis) (15)___--_. Brilliant pinkish orange glow.

Caiman (Caiman sclerops) (3)----------------- Very brilliant pinkish orange glow.

far into the eye.
West African crocodile (Crocodylus cataprac-

fs) eS a oe en ae ee ee ee Brilliant pinkish orange glow.
Salt-water crocodile (Crocodylus porosus) _---- Pinkish orange glow.
Broad-nosed crocodile (Osteolaemus tetraspis)_. Brilliant pinkish orange glow.
Malayan gavial (Tomistoma schlegeli)..__----- Pinkish orange glow.
SQUAMATA

No satisfactory shine observed from any of
about 25 species of lizards.

OPHIDIA
BOIDAE:
Green tree boa (Boa canina) ._-_-------------- Brilliant lemon.
Cook’s tree boa (Boa cooki) ____--_------------ Bright orange.
COLUBRIDAE:

Pike-headed tree snake (Ozybelis acuminatus)_ Pale golden, fairly bright.
CROTALIDAE:

Copperhead (Agkistrodon mokasen) . ---------- Faint glisten.
VIPERIDAE:
Gaboon viper (Bitis gabonica) _---.------------ Dull pale silver.
AMPHIBIA
SALIENTIA
BUFONIDAE: :
Sapo de concha (Bufo empusus)-.------------- Dull pale orange.
Cuban giant toad (Bufo peltocephalus) __-_---_- Amber, medium brilliance.
Leaf toad (Bufo superciliosws)._--------------- Amber.
CERATOPHRYDAE:
Horned toad (Ceratophrys dorsata) . -----_----- Brilliant medium amber.
HYLIDAE:
Australian tree frog (Hyla caerulea) __.-------- Brilliant pale amber.
Cuba tree frog (Hyla septentrionalis) __-------- Deep amber, medium brilliance
FISHES

Zebra fish (Brachydanion rerio)_-.----------------- Brilliant silver.

Effect of looking
THE CHINESE MITTEN CRAB

By A. PANNING,
Hamburg, Germany

{With nine plates]
PREFACE

The assumption that animals settle in new lands beyond the borders
of their native habitats and thus extend the range of their habitation
often plays an important part in zoogeography. Such assumptions
are very plausible in many cases, but they are usually difficult to
prove, because these assumed happenings took place so far back in
the history of the earth. Extensive studies have been made in our
times about animals living in regions far away from their original hab-
itats. Some of these animals have been intentionally transplanted by
man and some have been brought in unintentionally on commercial
carriers, as on ships, for instance. One of the very best and most
recent examples of this is the presence of the Chinese mitten crab in
the North Sea and in the Baltic countries following the opening of
extensive shipping between Germany and eastern Asia. This mitten
crab was almost unnoticed for years but during the latter part of the
past decade has increased enormously and has developed suddenly
into a serious danger to the fishing industry. The necessity of effec-
tively fighting these obstructive crabs has led to thorough scientific
investigations into all their characteristics and everything about them.
The lively maritime traffic between Germany and eastern Asia will
continue to leave many ways open for the further distribution of this
resistant and adaptable crustacean, and a short account of its intro-
duction into Europe, its distribution over Germany and neighboring
countries, and its characteristics and ways and habits may be of
general interest.

THE MITTEN CRAB’S ORIGINAL HABITAT

The genus Eriocheir is a native of eastern Asia and contains three
species. The Japanese mitten crab (Hriocheir japonicus de Haan)
inhabits the Japanese islands from Formosa in the south to the
southern point of Sakhalin in the north, also the coast of the Asiatic

361
362 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938

mainland across from Japan, the eastern coast of Korea, the coast
northward to Vladivostok and perhaps even a little farther north.
In Japan it goes far up into the mountains, and in these mountainous
regions it is called the mountain crab.

The Chinese mitten crab (Hriocheir sinensis H. Milne-Edwards)

ms

CA

~

FIGURE 1.—Distribution of genus Hriocheir,in East Asia; horizontal lines; region of habitat of the Japanese
mitten crab; vertical lines: region of the Chinese mitten crab; dotted region: habitat of Eriocheir leptognathus
Rathbun.

(pl. I) inhabits China from the province of Fokien in the south to the
west coast of the Korean Peninsula (by the Yellow Sea) in the north.
Its principal habitat is, however, north of Shanghai. Even though it
is found far inland, it nevertheless seems to prefer regions near the
coast. Kobayashi says that in Korea it always settles in the rice-
CHINESE MITTEN CRAB—PANNING 363

fields near the coast and that farther inland it lives only in the rivers.
The species of Eriocheir leptognathus described by Dr. Mary J. Rathbun
inhabits China from the province of Fokin in the south, where it is
very rare, to the Liaotung peninsula on the Yellow Sea in the north.
Its principal habitat is north of Shanghai (fig. 1).

The mitten crab belongs to the Grapsoid family group which is
phylogenetically the newest group of the brachyuran crustaceans.
The Grapsoid crabs are animals of the Tropics, but a few forms reach
into the Temperate Zone, and the mitten crab is one of them. Thus
it happens that we see characteristics In an animal living in the Tem-
perate Zone which really belong only to animals living in the Topics.
The Grapsoid crabs are marine animals, and it is an outstrnding
characteristic of all marine crabs that larvae escape from thear eggs
to drift free and pass through various stages before settling ion the
bottom. Thereby they differ fundamentally from all real fresh-water
crabs which do not go through these stages when the larvae drift.
about free. A whole group of Grapsoid crabs spend their adolescence
in brackish or fresh water where they find especially rich feeding
However, that is the only time they do live in brackish or fresh water.
They must always breed in the ocean. The larvae escape from the
egg in the ocean and pass through the free-drifting larval stages in salt
or brackish water, but however far they may venture into fresh water
they must always return to the ocean for reproduction. The Grap-
soid crabs, therefore, prefer regions close to the coast when they seek
fresh water. Our mitten crab belongs to this group.

HOW THE MITTEN CRAB WAS BROUGHT INTO GERMANY

The mitten crabs live in the Temperate Zone in eastern Asia up into
the far north. This fact has made possible their transfer to temperate
Central Europe and to cold-temperate northern Europe. Their
presence in Germany was probably made possible because of their
reproduction through free-drifting larvae brought to Germany on
commercial vessels. When the ships happened to fill their ballast
water tanks in central or north Chinese ports during the larvae’s
spawning time, the 1.7- to 5-mm larvae of the mitten crab would, of
course, get into the tanks, and again when the tanks were emptied in
the German port the young mitten crabs, a few millimeters long, into
which the larvae had developed during the trip, would, of course, get
into one of the German rivers emptying into the North Sea. This could
go on unnoticed year after year. They were undoubtedly brought
in long ago. The first Chinese mitten crab, a large male, was dis-
covered in the Aller, a tributary to the Weser, in 1912. One can thus
consider that these crabs were first brought in during the first decade
of this century, and their entry therefore coincides to a certain extent
364 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938

with the establishment of intensive maritime traffic with eastern Asia.
A specimen was first brought to me for identification in 1923 and a
decade and a half or perhaps two may well have passed after they
had first been introduced before we became fully aware of this new
inhabitant in German waters.

It must seem astonishing that the mitten crab has increased within
a period of perhaps three and a half decades in the German rivers in
such an alarming degree. This tremendous increase was undoubtedly
aided by the fact that they were not brought in fully grown but in
large numbers as larvae or when very young. However, this enor-
mous increase in such a short time was above all aided by the partic-
ular conditions in the German rivers.

The German rivers ceased long ago to be just rivers and became
waterways, navigation highways, and traffic arteries. This change
of the German rivers has made existence impossible for many native
animals, as, for instance, for the predatory fishes which would have
been of the greatest importance in fighting and checking these mitten
crabs. Conditions were thus created under which this extraordinarily
resistant mitten crab has been able to establish itself.

THE DISTRIBUTION OF THE MITTEN CRAB IN GERMANY

Although the mitten crab was found first in the Weser River system
(in Aller near Rethem in 1912), it has not been seen there since. By
later questioning Elbe fishermen, it was found that the crabs had
appeared as a by-catch in the flounder fisheries by the mouth of the
Elbe since about 1915. They seem hardly to have left the lower
tide-water region after that. They were first seen in the upper tide-
water regions above Hamburg in 1926, and by 1927 they were there in
great masses. A few years later they flooded the waters of the mid
Elbe (Havel, Province of Brandenburg) to such an extent that it
became necessary to take measures to check them. By 1930 the lower
sections of the Weser, as well as the lower and mid sections of the
Elbe, were thickly infested with these crabs. In the late twenties they
began to spread westward into the Ems and eastward into the Oder.
They found their way westward from the Weser into the Ems through
the many streams and canals in northern Oldenburg and eastward into
the Oder through the waterways leading from the Elbe through
Brandenburg. And with the beginning of this decade they com-
menced to spread westward from the Ems into northern Holland and
through the Midland Canal and the Rhine into southern Holland,
northern Belgium, and northern France. They have gradually estab-
lished a particular breeding ground in the region of the Danish Great
and Lesser Belt in the Baltic. Mitten crabs that had reached the Oder
from the Elbe through Brandenburg, have with all certainty helped
to establish these breeding grounds inasmuch as, upon reaching
CHINESE MITTEN CRAB—PANNING 365

maturity, they naturally moved on downstream into the Baltic in
their hunt for salt water. And they may have come through the
North Sea—Baltic Canal (Kiel Canal) as well. They have spread
from these breeding grounds in the Great and Lesser Belt in the
Baltic to Denmark, southeastern Sweden, East Prussia, southern
Finland, and in some instances, to some of the adjoining countries on
the Baltic. Today, according to Dr. Peters, lower and mid Elve as
far as into Saxony, the Weser below Bremen, and the coast regions
of Germany and Holland from the Elbe to the Rhine are thickly
infested with them. In other sections they are only sparse (fig. 2).

-~ever ! 4 ww)
oa. : } Finnignd
oe fe
j -— fy

ry a Ko
© , #8 i
ely james =
ay RS wm RS! “> Estland Y

! .
om ‘
ie = id eae
i

lLettland
R t

feo

(Oss an.
»

Ae

DEUTSCHLAND

FIGURE 2.—Distribution of the Chinese mitten crab; horizontal lines: now inhabited region; dotted region:
very heavily inhabited.

REPRODUCTION

The mitten crab is, during its whole life, practically a fresh-water
animal and is found hundreds of kilometers upstream in thickly in-
fested rivers. With the development of the sex instinct, the urge for
the sea also awakens in them, and in August, or after, they leave their
feeding grounds, often located far inland, to move on downstream to
the sea. The sex organs develop during this migration and the crabs
reach puberty on the last lap of the journey through the usually brack-
ish water in the tidal regions. In the fall they always gather to breed
in large swarms in the brackish water in the lower course of the rivers.
366 § ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938

The males come first and remain through the whole winter while the
females come later, mate, and start immediately afterward to move on
down to the sea. The eggs are laid within 24 hours after mating and
are fastened to the small hairs on the pleopods on the underside of the
abdomen with a cementlike substance which hardens in salt water.
This cementlike substance hardens only in water that has a salt con-
tent of more than 2.5 percent, according to F. Buhk. The females,
burdened with the weight of the eggs on the pleopods under their abdo-
mens, choose to stay on in the deep water outside the river mouths
through the winter. As soon as it gets warm in the spring, the tiny
larvae escape from the eggs to start to drift about free (pl. 2). In all
probability the females hunt up particularly brackish water for this
purpose. In June or July, after all the larvae have left the eggs, both
males and females set out for the river banks at the mouths of the
rivers, where they gradually perish.

The intermittent stay in fresh water, and these long journeys far
inland between birth and death, which both take place in salt water,
bring about the peculiar character of the life cycle of these mitten
crabs. ‘They cannot repeat these long journeys to reproduce every
year or two, which other crawfishes do, because the distances are too
great. Breeding has, therefore, been put off to the last part of their
lifespan. But under normal circumstances this single breeding period
is compensated by an enormous egg production. The crabs, males and
females alike, are therefore completely exhausted and worn out after
mating, and waste away gradually. It is a sign of their generally
fading strength that they are so covered with barnacles (Balanidae)
(pl. 3) in the summer during their stay in the North Sea shallows,
that they hardly move about at all; indeed they often cannot move even
their mouth parts. They lack the strength to shed their shells which
would enable them to get rid of these cumbersome barnacles.

Whereas the eggs need pure salt water to mature, the larvae leave
the eggs in very brackish water. The prezoea, a free-drifting larva,
leaves the egg and develops immediately into a 1.7-mm zoea (pl. 2, a).
Subsequently, three additional larval stages follow. These larvae
probably move gradually into less brackish water. The last zoea
develops into the final larval stage, the 3-4-mm-long megalopa (pl. 2,
b). The change from the free-drifting life of the zoea, with long sus-
pended thorns and a rudderlike tail, to the more uneventful life of the
crab on the bottom takes place in the megalopa. The megalopa are
brought into fresh water with high tide and develop there into tiny
mitten crabs, 2.5 to 3 mm long, the first stage of bottom life (pl. 2, c).

This migration from salt to fresh water in the larval stage and from
fresh to salt water as adults toward the end of their life, is a distin-
guishing habit of the mitten crab, and, when considered biologically,
the mitten crab appears to be in the act of becoming a fresh-water
CHINESE MITTEN CRAB—PANNING 367

animal. This transition demands important readjustment in their
(body) system. ‘Their life substance has the same salt concentration
as sea water and therefore differs greatly from that of fresh water.
Whereas animals in sea water, with equal salt concentration inside as
outside the body, are not imperiled through any osmotic action, life in
fresh water demands equalization, and the constant absorption of
water by osmotic action through unprotected places in the body, as for
instance through the gills, is retroacted by increased water outlet
through the kidneys. Otherwise the plasma would be destroyed
through continuous swelling. The migration of the tender mitten
crab larvae from the sea into fresh water with its added requirement
for body functions, therefore, implies strong intrinsic power.

THE BREEDING PERIOD

Although the time of mating and the laying of eggs is fairly fixed,
beginning about the end of October and lasting until January, the
larvae’s hatching time changes very much depending upon the weather.
When springs are warm, which does not happen often, at least not
in northwestern Germany, the larvae hatch sometime between the
end of March and May or June. But the time for hatching usually
comes considerably later and lasts until far into July. Thus their
whole development is, of course, delayed. During warm springs,
the megalopae may appear in July or August in the fresh water
below Hamburg, and there develop into the first bottom stage, but
during unfavorable weather their appearance is delayed until October.
In 1933, when it was exceptionally warm, the young mitten crabs
reached an average length of 10 mm in October but again in 1935 and
1936, when the weather was unfavorable, their average size was only
4 to 7 mm when they went into winter rest.

THE WANDERINGS OF THE MITTEN CRAB

The migration of the larvae into the fresh water in the upper tidal
regions is (probably) aided by the tidal currents. These feeding
grounds are very rich, and the wanderings could have continued to
end here, as they did up to the beginning of the twenties, if the number
of the crabs had not increased so tremendously. It was this enormous
increase that forced them to move on farther upstream in their
search for food. But the crabs are too small at first to be able to
make their way upstream against the strong current. During their
first summer in their larval stage they are brought with the tidal
current into fresh water, and during their second summer they stay
there in the coast regions where the water recedes at ebb tide until
they grow sufficiently to enable them to wander on.
368 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938

In the late fall the crabs return in large masses to deep water for
winter rest, causing such crowding in the narrow river-channels that
the young ones, then in their second year, are not strong enough to
fight for a place for winter rest there and are, therefore, forced to
move on.

Consequently, as the catches by the dam in the Weser by Bremen
show, the young animals begin to move on upstream in the beginning
of winter but only sparsely during the cold weather in January and
February. As soon as it gets a little warmer in March, these crabs,
not yet 2 years old, commence to migrate upstream in such huge masses
that more than 30,000 of them are caught and destroyed daily in
Bremen in traps specially constructed for this purpose. The con-
gestion is lifted when the crabs again swarm out into the shallow
regions with the advent of warmer weather in the beginning of May.

These swarms, which once migrated from the tidal regions, are now

IV V i VIT VIII

FIGURE 3.—Catch of mitten crabs at Doemitz, Germany, during April, May, June, July, and August, 1937 |

forced to wander farther on because rivers that have been converted
into navigation arteries do not hold sufficient nutriment for them. It
is a wandering without a goal. Wherever a canal, or a rivulet,
empties into the river some of the crabs always leave the large swarms
to move into it. But in the Elbe, from Hamburg on, they have very
few opportunities to branch off into suitable feeding grounds. The
crabs heading upstream are, therefore, forced to remain for a long
time in huge swarms. Only the Elde near Doemitz (in Mecklenburg),
the Havel and the Saole can accommodate these swarms and conse-
quently receive heavy visitations of the crabs. In these three rivers
the migration begins in April about the time when it already has
reached or passed its height in the tidal region, and continues into
August. In Doemitz (in Mecklenburg) 44,400 kg of mitten crabs
moving upstream were caught in specially constructed traps by the
dam in the Elde rivulet in 1936, and 34,925 kg in 1937. As the curve
(fig. 3) shows, the migration and the catch commence suddenly in
CHINESE MITTEN CRAB—PANNING 369

April and decrease temporarily during the end of May and early June,
probably as a result of a shedding which takes place about this time.
The migration is at its height in June and July and falls off during
August. The swarms that penetrate into the Havel are even larger.
About 100,000 kg of crabs were caught there in similar traps in 1936
(pl. 4, fig. 1). And even as far up in the Saole as Calbe 42,500 kg
were caught in 1936. The migration decreases considerably higher
up in the Elbe beyond the mouth of the Saole, inasmuch as the
greater mass has branched off into suitable feeding grounds. In
single instances only do they penetrate as far as through Saxony into
Czechoslovakia. The mitten crabs, as we see, indeed, accomplish
extraordinary wandering feats. The distance which the tiny larvae
travel from the sea up to the vicinity of Hamburg is about 100 km,
the distance along the Elbe from Hamburg to Doemitz about 120 km,
from Hamburg to Garz on the Havel 220 km, and from Hamburg to
Calbe on the Saole 350 km.

I have ascertained through marking tests the rate of speed at which
the young crabs travel upstream against the current and in doing this
I have marked the backs of 13,000 mitten crabs with good sbip’s
paint of different colors during series of experiments in the Weser,
the Elbe, the Havel, and the Saole. The crabs were placed in lots
of 1,000 specimens at certain distances apart below the traps and the
time was noted when the marked crabs again landed in the traps from
which they had been taken previously. The evolution of these
13 experiments showed that the small animals, migrating from the
tidal region in the lower course of the Weser, traveled a distance of
1 to 1.5 km daily and that the larger ones, moving against the current
in mid Elbe, a distance of 2 to 3 km daily. In their upstream mi-
gration, they reach the Havel during the first summer and the Saole
during the second summer.

When the mitten crabs have reached their full growth in the interior
of Germany, they leave and wander back to the sea to reproduce.
A shedding of the shell precedes this downstream migration so the
crabs start out with thin, light shells and subtle elastic synovial
membranes. The migration commences everywhere simultaneously
in August and is in all certainty induced by incipient growth of the
sex glands, inasmuch as the sex organs begin to develop in these
migrating crabs during their wandering through mid Elbe. The
migration downstream decreases slowly in mid Elbe during October
after its height in September, whereas the migration continues in its
lower course into November. The rate of speed at which these crabs
travel has also been ascertained through experiments with color
markings (pl. 4, fig. 2). In the course of four experiments, 1,600
crabs were marked and set adrift in the Havel and the Weser. Of the
crabs which were captured, the three which traveled the longest dis-
370 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938

tances had the highest average: (1) Total distance 338 km, time 29
days, or 12 km per day. (2) Total distance 257 km, time 43 days, or
8 km per day. (3) Total distance 368 km, time 38 days, or 10 km
per day. These large crabs in the spawning swarm consequently
travel downstream at the considerable rate of speed of 8 to 12 km
per day and thus can reach the breeding places in the brackish water
in 2 to 3 months even from the more remote regions.

It is not surprising that the young animals cease their slow wander-
ing upstream in midsummer when the old animals commence their
rapid downstream migration, because the young animals are forced to
leave the channel in midstream when the two swarms meet.

SHEDDING OF THE SHELL, GROWTH, AND LIFE SPAN

The vertebrates, with their inner skeletons covered with a network
of living cells, grow evenly and inconspicuously, but arthropods, with
their dead outer armor, grow by leaps. The chitinous armor rein-
forced by deposits of lime must from time to time be thrown off and
renewed because it ages quickly, breaks and becomes useless. Besides,
growth is possible only by shedding the shell because the dead outer
shell cannot be enlarged through growth as do the bones of the
vertebrates. It must, therefore, from time to time be thrown off
and replaced with a new and larger one. Preparation for the shedding
of the armor is made in the forming of a new, thin, elastic shell under
the old one. The blood pressure now increases through the absorption
of water. The old armor bursts in the rear end between the carapace
and the abdomen, the crab glides out backward and expands at the
same time. The blood pressure produced to burst the old and expand
the new shell is so great that the crab after shedding can move on
its elastic legs without caving in. The new shell hardens through
absorption of calcareous deposits. This peculiar periodic mode of
growth with the shedding of the shell restricts the mitten crab to a
comparatively slow growth. In growth through sudden expansion,
limits are set to the elasticity, inasmuch as overexpansion would
tear many organs. According to investigations made by Dr. Schu-
bert, the length added by shedding is 24 percent in the smallest
animals but decreases as they increase in size and is only 11 percent
in the largest crabs, which are more than 70 mm long. The number of
sheddings per year are limited and evidently strictly regulated. The
gullet, the stomach, and the rectum, which reaches almost to the
stomach, are coated with chitin and are shed with the shell. They
must consequently be empty at the time of shedding. The shedding,
is, therefore, preceded by a period of fasting. The fasting continues
until the jaws harden. According to Dr. Schubert, the mitten crabs
shed 6 to 8 times during their first year, 4 to 5 times during their
CHINESE MITTEN CRAB—PANNING Sor

second year, and 2 to 3 times during their third year. The older
crabs shed only once a year.

As the hatching of the larvae is usually completed in July, I count
the years of life of the mitten crabs as running from July to July.
Thus, according to my investigations, the average length of the crabs
is: the 1-year-olds about 13 mm; the 2-year-olds about 25 mm; the
3-year-olds about 36 to 388 mm. I estimate that the crabs about 56
mm long in the spawning swarms are 5 years old.

NUTRIMENT

In discussions on the evil of the mitten crabs the question has
always been an important one as to whether they attack and eat
fishes. It is easy to understand that every fisherman whose catch
falls off in vicinities where there are mitten crabs vows that they are
wanton destroyers of fishes. But the question is not so easily solved.
Timid fishes lose out, to be sure, where there are mitten crabs, and
the crabs do attack fishes that have been caught in nets, thus having
lost freedom of movement. They are omnivorous and eat whatever
they can get. That does not prove, however, that slow mitten crabs
catch speedy fishes at liberty. We have, in fact, kept fishes and
mitten crabs together for long periods in the same aquarium, a
mitten crab and a perch occupying the same corner, the fish directly
above the crab without being molested by it. Dr. H. Thiel has
proved through examinations of contents of stomachs of mitten
crabs that the largest portion of their food comes from the vegetable
kingdom, but they must to some extent get their food from the
animal kingdom as the lime that is necessary to harden the shell
otherwise would be lacking. They eat worms, especially Tubifex,
mussels and snails, inferior crustaceans, water insects, insect larvae,
and even dead substance of organic origin. Remains of fishes were
found only in 4 to 5 stomachs of 1,000 mitten crabs, and these came
from a region with huge swarms of young fishes. It may have been
the remains of cadavers of young fishes that had served the crabs
as food.

VOLUNTARY MUTILATION AND REGENERATION

The mitten crabs, like all higher crustacea, are able to throw off
their pincer and walking legs and grow new ones at the same time with
their next new shell. This ability enables them often to save them-
selves when they are attacked. With lightning speed they discard
the leg the attacker has seized and then rush off. At the base of all
10 legs, between two joints which have grown together, there is another
joint with a very thin shell. Through certain muscular contraction
whereby the adjoining leg serves as lever, the endangered leg is broken

114728—39——25
372 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938

off in this joint. The same thing happens in cases of injuries. The
wound caused by the breaking off of the leg is immediately closed with
a thin membrane already formed so that all loss of blood is avoided.

Shortly before the next shedding takes place, a bud grows through
the scar where the leg was severed and in it is formed a regenerated
leg folded in two (pl. 5). It straightens out in the next shedding but
is at first somewhat smaller than the discarded limb and lacks always
the characteristic pilroe, which makes the fishermen think that they
here have an entirely different animal when they find a mitten crab
with two regenerated pincers in their by-catch. This lack of pilroe
on the regenerated limb is interpreted as a retrogression to an original
hairless form, but proof to this effect is lacking (pl. 5).

How much of this self-mutilation is dependent on the ability to
renew discarded limbs is realized by the fact that the crabs are very
little inclined to self-mutilation when the time for the next shedding
is still remote.

MITTEN CRAB BURROWS

It is known that many tropical crustaceans that live in tidal regions
on the coast or in the river mouths dig burrows for themselves into
which they retire during ebb tide. The mitten crabs do it also in the
tidal regions of German rivers. We find their burrows in firm marsh
bottoms everywhere on the banks of the Elbe tributaries and in
canals which dry out in ebb tide. It is easy to recognize their low
and wide entrances and not to confuse them with the round openings
to the burrows of the water voles. The burrows are always dug to
slant downward and filled with water, which makes it possible for the
crabs to await here the return of the water with high tide. Where the
burrows are numerous, the undermined shore finally caves in and
thus the mitten crabs are the cause of considerable damage in many
places (pl. 6).

DAMAGE CAUSED TO FISHING

Fishermen maintain that the mitten crab catches and eats fishes in
open waters. However, this does not tally. The healthy fish is
much too quick and the mitten crab much too slow for that. Fisher-
men maintain also that the crab destroys the spawn and the fry.
This could hardly be the case either. But in other ways they do a
lot of damage, as for instance when fishes like flounders are caught
in place nets. When the net reaches the bottom the crabs crawl
high up on the net, eating the defenseless fish and becoming entangled
with their many legs in the fine net threads. In their attempts to
escape they tangle up the nets and finally cut them into pieces with
their jaws. To the loss in catch there is added the destruction of
nets and the loss of time caused by the constantly necessary mending
CHINESE MITTEN CRAB—PANNING 373

of damaged nets. When mitten crabs are caught as a by-catch in
dragnet fishing, not only is the fish injured and made useless for sale
by rubbing against the crab’s toothed armor, but the nets wear out
much sooner and must be replaced more often. It is estimated that
the resulting cost of nets is tripled in many regions. When mitten
crabs come upon eel-basket pots, they swarm into them, attracted
perhaps by the scent, and as a result the eels do not go in, or if they
do, they are devoured. In central Germany large hoop nets with
which to catch the eels heading for the sea are often laid out behind
the sluice gate. The crabs migrating in the fall unfortunately take
the same route and are consequently caught in these hoop nets. When,
as happens in Havel, up to 500 kg of mitten crabs are caught in a
single night in a hoop net, the chances for eel fishing are impossible.
As eel fishing is the most important source of livelihood for the fisher-
men in many regions, it is very easy to understand that the fishermen
demand that adequate steps be taken to ward off their peril.

MEANS OF CONTROL

It is true that some predatory fishes and some aquatic birds and
waterfowl devour the mitten crabs, but this means of exterminating
them is altogether ineffective because of the crabs’ enormous and
rapid increase. The possibility of preventing their reproduction by
catching the breeding swarms in the river mouths has been discussed,
but however logical the idea may seem, considerable difficulties stand
in the way of carrying it out. But more favorable opportunities
to control the crabs have presented themselves in the interior of
Germany.

The mitten crabs travel on the bottom of the rivers, forcing their
way upstream where the current is strongest, and pile up below any
dam that temporarily stops them in their wandering. Advantage of
this opportunity is taken by the Weser dams in Bremen. Barrels
covered with wire netting or canvas are lowered with davits to the
bottom of the Weser. The crabs, jammed in against the dam,
crawl high up on the barrels, fall into them and are caught in this
way. In 1935 from January to May, 12,166 kg of mitten crabs
(3,444,680 specimens) were caught, the greatest amount at one time
being 407 kg (113,960 specimens) on April 15, 1935. In 1936, 12,786
kg (2,941,100 specimens) were taken.

When crabs are jammed below a dam they try in many ways to
get by the obstacle. They crawl up on the walls and finally out on
the shore, so as to pass the dam by land. It was thus that it was
first learned what enormous masses of mitten crabs infest the German
rivers. During warm summer nights the shore region is black with
crabs; one cannot take a step without treading on them. In places
where a dam is close to a city, it happens occasionally that mitten
374 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938

crabs land on city streets and finally even penetrate into houses.
This happened in 1931 in Rathenow on the Havel, in 1936 in a suburb
of Magdeburg, and in 1938 in Calbe on Saole. The habit of the mitten
crabs to leave the river bed led to the main methods used in Germany
to control them. Where the mitten crabs leave the river in their
efforts to get by the obstructing dam by land, extensive shore regions
below the dam are shut off by means of sheet iron and trenches dug
in the ground in front of the metal into which the mitten crabs fall
while wandering along on the sheet iron. Such a project has been
laid out by the Elde rivulet in Doemitz and has already been de-
scribed, and also in Garz on the Havel, where 77,100 kg of mitten
crabs were caught in 1935 and 58,300 kg in 1936. In Gruetz on the
Havel, 12 km above Garz, a conduit has been led along the upper
border of the slanting walled riverbank, and into this conduit the
climbing mitten crabs fall and are led by it to a large pit in which they
collect without being able to escape. A slanting piece of sheet iron
between the conduit and the river prevents the crabs from circum-
venting the traps. Although here only those crabs are caught which
escape the traps in Garz through parallel river beds, nevertheless
11,250 kg of crabs were caught in 1935 and 32,400 kg in 1936 (pl. 4,
fie. 3 pl dps

In Calbe on the Saole, the mitten crabs preferably climb up the
rough slanting wall below the dam which affords these adept climbers
sufficient grip. Here large wire baskets have been suspended against
the wall and at some distance above them sheet iron has been laid.
The climbing crabs slide down this sheet iron and fall into the basket
from which they cannot escape. In 1936, 47,440 kg were caught in
these baskets during the catching period from April to August (pl. 8).

No special traps need be laid to catch the old downstream-migrating
animals. They always move with the strongest current and are
therefore caught in front of the turbines and in the eel-basket pots
behind the dam outlets. In this way 49,400 kg (about 227,000
specimens) were caught in 1935 in the Havel and 4,814 kg (about
34,470 specimens) in 1935, and 4,836 kg (about 27,560 specimens)
in 1936 in Bremen.

These numbers do not by any means include all the mitten crabs
caught. The young crabs migrating upstream, which pile up in
front of the dam, are often caught there in large numbers in the eel-
basket pots kept in front of the dam through the summer. Including
these catches, the total catch of crabs moving up and downstream
was 137,650 kg in the Havel in 1935 and 129,300 kg in 1936. In
verified catches in Germany, altogether 262,600 kg were caught in
1986 and 190,400 kg in 1937.
CHINESE MITTEN CRAB—PANNING 315

UTILIZATION OF MITTEN CRABS

It is evident that efforts should be made to convert into profit these
huge masses of mitten crabs caught daily during the main migration
period. In Bremen the crabs are boiled and distributed to farmers
who feed them to pigs with good success. Many fishermen crush
their by-catch of mitten crabs and feed them raw to ducks which under-
stand very well how to pick out the soft substance and thrive well on
it. In Garz and Gruetz on the Havel, the mitten crabs are ground
in large mills, and when this mutage cannot be fed to ducks, it is
dumped into the rivers where the young fishes eat it eagerly. This is,
of course, unprofitable and consequently experiments have been made
for a long time by the “Havel,” an association for the protection of
fisheries in Gruetz, which would lead to utilization of the mitten crabs.
These experiments have yet not been concluded and, therefore, can
not be reported on.

MUTATION OF MITTEN CRABS

The mitten crabs have reacted to their introduction into a strange
environment with some very conspicuous changes in their outward
form. Plate 9 shows the three best examples of this change in the
form. ‘The changes have taken place principally in two systematically
important characters—the rostrum teeth between the eyes and the
three pairs of protuberances on the back behind the forehead.

If one assumes that the mitten crabs were introduced into Germany
around the turn of the century, it has required a comparatively long
exposure to the new environment for these mutations to take place.
No traces of changes were noticed in specimens brought to us in the
twenties. In 1932 and 1933 the mitten crab was conspicuously labile
in systematically important characters. The rostrum teeth were
weaker and seldom pointed but mostly blunt, almost round; the
indentures between the teeth were flatter and often shaped very
irregularly; the protuberances on the back were fainter and those of
both rear pairs seemed to be inclined to fuse. At that time it was
barely possible out of a large mass of mitten crabs to find even a few
typical specimens to be used as exhibits. Now the mitten crab
again has its original form without any deviation from the Chinese
specimens brought to me only recently from Shanghai. It seems
(more cannot be said) that the original mutation was accompanied
by a general fluctuation of those characters which were affected by
the change.

The parts of the foregoing report not based on my original investiga-
tions are taken from volume 47 of the Reports of the Hamburg
Zoological Museum and Institute (works by Drs. Peters, Thiel,
Schubert, Hoppe, and Peters), which I recommend for further infor-
mation.
how

ses 9 weit nal “eps th
{like : sis Py iyo it at any) +) en 4 Caan Ts ‘> 2 Kani

: =
wa

~ ib

a Sig a
} \ j 72 ' bees St
Ne ’ Le tit i fis aries ee a ne tome oy ft

Su) ae

-
: el a
ah
Se iY —_ Foss ” oe
a Fe Ch t | pt oD wy De
; . ti if fey oe 0"

cap aes

A Ligh me a a n ee wai men j Ts)
r ie Bis fy
t + * 4
at Sa at Veet be’ aH ya SOU ieee font a ae a 98
pe a j : a Phi hs wy - F se é Pol iv
4a F ‘5 f > 5 # i * ed a >a ;
ey - 4 7 =" a &
rs ae ua sate Tease
: ee | Te ce at coe aca
i. ea) ik Srtd.: re ol en
eas a ah baga 1A apt sable aclieny ays ie
uP it idee: fodtrastQn wher” atin ie eres ae He
‘* ing a : a 7 ns _
ar ‘ ere } is Le Pi * j et 724 Ain “
Bent bende hee dk ald 2 ar a ds Bs: ‘
/ - od , bis

rae tg .
; ; * be) HR LE WE antt \o hehe ashe Anat ps
y ALG } ALE 6) cet aden ooh i, to eciag: eernits

é ‘ ; « Ms
ae. ; shins | vi vir slight ry undated eft f gilt NATE a ashe fo .

i i‘? ( <
i f Ot eae

ty al ¢\"y { Poa es

‘ = a b xs he

Le a)

: OFS | {
t >:

o id

a cvs }

‘ ‘ . ia /
on” - aye +
=a ¢ ’ AY

bons iy Sad

' ii -
- 5 ¢ fins 4 i La y a P Yh ‘s ‘a
re ‘ We | ee at
De R ah es ae Spawn: ord «fiero v) ‘sank
; ag ‘ ? t " ae oleae iis 7 oy b
7 AY | RVR dese rial ¢ ody lle GK
“7 . rei’ f hay » wad i 7 tid td mat }
ig ‘a bh  ¢4 apy 4 : one 3 rig ; “vii P deen
is ro oe ‘ye 1 ig es | ¥| ta ary we
(ORs) Same eedecad.
x "1

Ad yi OP (ia ).: Mistual. boa svussualé Lao
Uhr Dai Df VOSS ' Moithyi ‘A Ated i | hie Agel te ad ri
| ao

Smithsonian Report, 1938.—Panning PLATE ]

Chinese mitten crab, male: above, back; below, belly.
Smithsonian Report, 1938.—Panning PLATE 2

1. Female with eggs.

Naturtiche Grobe:
ea oi,% mm
/ 5.0 mm
c- 3.0 mm

A SE A
—

(i ie

2. The larvae: a, zoea; b, megalopa; c, in first bottom stage.

REPRODUCTION.

es
Smithsonian Report, 1938.—Panning PLATE 3

DYING OLD FEMALE DENSELY COVERED WITH BARNACLES. :
Above, back; below, belly; the whole mouth organs densely covered with barnacles and scarcely movable.
Smithsonian Report, 1938.—Panning PLATE 4

:
Mh) M

jitter

1. Catching young mitten crabs wandering upstream into traps by the Havel dam in Gruetz (in Branden-
burg) during the summer of 1936. (Photograph by Weltbild.)

2. This large animal marked with white paint was turned loose in Garz on the Havel, recaptured near
Wittenberg on the Elbe; it traveled 123 km. in 12 days.
Smithsonian Report, 1938.—Panning PLATE 5

1. Female belly; on the left side (right side on the picture), regeneration buds on the stumps of first, second,
and third walking legs; on right side (left side on the picture), regenerating buds on the stumps of second
and third walking legs.

2. Male belly, with newly formed left pincer (right pincer in picture), without hairs, pile.

REGENERATION.
Smithsonian Report, 1938.—Panning PLATE 6

RIVER BEDS AT LOW EBB TIDE WITH MITTEN CRAB BURROWS.
Above, the broad, flat entrances to the burrows; below, the undermined bank falls in.

Smithsonian Report, 1938.—Panning PLATE 7

ima deeei meee eo
ma 3 th,

a SS ey to ee Pe &

1. The dam in Gruetz on the Havel seen from below; on the right side on the picture the needleweir and on
the left side the rampart. Left from it the sloping wall and on its upper edge the trap. (Photographs
by Dr. Roehler.)

2. Trap projects by the dam in Gruetz on the Havel left wall with trench traps and climbing mitten crabs.
(Photographs by Dr. Roehler.)
Smithsonian Report, 1938.—Panning PLATE 8

le ‘
‘nell OF ES
all ig pales

TRAP BASKETS.

Above, by the dam in Calbe on the Saale; below, on the Elbe bridge in Magdeburg. (Photographs by|!Dr.
Kisker.) From Kisker Fischereizeitung, vol. 37, fig. page 510, 1934.
Smithsonian Report, 1938.—Panning

THREE MUTATIONS OF THE MITTEN CRAB FROM THE ELBE.

THE BIOLOGY OF LIGHT PRODUCTION IN ARTHROPODS !

By N.S. Rustum Maur
The Osborn Zoological Laboratory, Yale University

* * * il the fire emitted by wood and other combustibles when burning, existed in
them before in a solid state, being only discovered when separating—
— BENJAMIN FRANKLIN

Luminescence, in contrast to incandescence, is the emission of light
as a result of some other factor than heat. There are various types
of luminescence: (1) Thermoluminescence is the emission of light at
abnormally high temperatures but nevertheless at temperatures well
below 525° C. It resembles phosphorescence in that it is dependent
on previous irradiation, e. g., fluorite will cease to emit light at 100° C.
if kept in the dark for a long time. Since not all phosphorescent sub-
stances are thermoluminescent, thermoluminescence is probably not
merely a case of phosphorescence intensified by heat. (2) Phos-
phorescence and fluorescence are the emission of light as the result of
an absorption of radiant energy. In fluorescence the emission (gen-
erally of a longer wave length than the incident light) occurs only
during the time of irradiation. Harvey (1919) has pointed out,
however, that the distinction between fluorescence and phosphores-
cence is probably only arbitrary since some substances will yield light
for only 1/5,000 of a second after irradiation and since some substances,
which fluoresce at ordinary temperatures, will phosphoresce at low
temperatures. Chitin, eosin, and most proteins will fluoresce in
ultraviolet light so that an excursion of a human being into an imagin-
ary world in which there is no incident visible light but in which there
is ultraviolet irradiation would not mean that all would be darkness.
He would be able to see living organisms and various minerals. (3)
Triboluminescence results from the shaking or rubbing of certain
crystals, e. g., uranium nitrate, sucrose. (4) Crystalloluminescence is
observable when certain substances in solution are crystallizing out,
e. g., AsO, NaF. All such substances are triboluminescent but the
converse is not true. It has been shown that crystalloluminescence is
not necessarily due to friction. (5) Chemiluminescence, in contrast
to the above types of luminescence, is an oxidation and generally, if
not always, requires oxygen or ozone. It thus includes the lumines-

1 Reprinted by permission from Science Progress, vol. 32, No. 126, October 1937, with extensive revisions
and additions by the author.
377
378 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938

cence of organisms (bioluminescence). Examples of chemilumines-
cence in the inorganic world arenumerous. Thus, freshly cut Na or K
metals form an oxid film accompanied by the emission of light, which
is perceptible in a dark room.

A. DISTRIBUTION AND STRUCTURE OF THE LIGHT-PRODUCING
ORGANS

For a treatment of the earlier literature bearing upon this topic, de
Kerville (1890), Mangold (1910-14), Harvey (1919), and Pratje (1923)
should be consulted. Dahlgren (1915, 1916) has given a semipopular
and well-illustrated account of the distribution of light organs in
marine invertebrates. It is of interest to note that no truly fresh-
water animal has as yet been determined, for certain, to possess a
light-producing organ.

I. Crustacea.—Light-producing organs have been found among the
Ostracoda, Copepoda, Schizopoda, and Decapoda. Luminescence in
the ostracod, Oypridina hilgendorfii, the principal subject of the
Harvelian school is extracellular. The luminescent organ in this
animal is composed of maxillary gland cells, each cell opening by a
separate pore with a valve (cf. also Kanda, 1920, and the work of
Doflein and of Miiller, quoted in the above works). Upon the con-
traction of certain muscles, the secretion is forced to the exterior from
the saclike reservoir and luminesces in the sea water. In the deep-sea
shrimp, Acanthephyra debelis, the light-organs are scattered over the
surface of the body. The shrimp, Systellaspis, possesses a large
luminous gland which secretes a luminous material into the sea water
(Harvey, 1931a). This species occurs at depths between 600 and 800
fathoms off the coast of Bermuda. Luminescence at abysmal depths
may be useful for illumination, although Kemp (1910) has noted that
the vast majority of marine animals possessing photophores (including
decapod Crustacea) live at the surface or at intermediate depths and
never occur at the bottom, at least in deep water.

2. Chilopoda (centipedes).—No millipede has as yet been estab-
lished to be self-luminous. The centipede, Scolioplanes crassipes (cf.
Koch, 1927), emits a vivid green light from its sterna. When it
crawls, it leaves behind it a trail of luminous fluid droplets which
emit green light. This shows that both the luciferin and luciferase
are secreted to the exterior. This would require a perforation at some
point in the membrane of each secreting cell, since luciferase is a
complex protein (see below). Each light organ of this animal is a
large hypodermal cell. A similar condition exists in Geophilus linearis
and other members of the order Geophilidae of the class Chilopoda
(centipedes).

Sudden submersion in water, weak induction currents, chloroform,
or a rise in temperature of about 10° C. stimulates the production of
light in Scolioplanes.
BIOLOGY OF LIGHT PRODUCTION—MALUF 379

The organs are equally developed in both sexes and luminesce all
the year round and not only, as some have believed, during the breed-
ing season (Cook, 1900). The fact that all the Geophilidae are eyeless
also indicates that luminescence in these forms does not serve for sex
attraction. Light production may, however, conceivably be signifi-
cant in repelling enemies or in attracting prey.

It is of phylogenetic interest to note that the luminosity of certain
“terrestrial” oligochaete annelids (Walter, 1909) is produced by the
secretion of hypodermal glands.

8. Hezapoda.—Luminous insects are nearly restricted to two
families of the Coleoptera: (1) The Elateridae or ‘‘fireflies,” * have
many luminous species all of which belong to the nonarid tropics or
subtropics and all of which are members of the genus Pyrophorus. (2)
The Lampyridae or ‘“glow-worms,’’ contain several hundred known
luminous species, included in several genera, most of which occur in
America, the West Indies, and the Malay Archipelago. In many
species both sexes may be about equally luminous while in others the
intensity of light production may predominate either in the female or
in the male but more usually in the latter.

The luminous organ of at least a number of Lampyridae probably
arises from the same embryonic fundament as the fat-body (cf. Wil-
liams, 1916-17, and Okada, 1935) and lies above the sixth and seventh
abdominal sterna. It consists of (1) a dorsal layer of reflector cells
which are white in appearance owing to the presence of crystals of
xanthin, uric acid, or both; (2) a ventral mass of large cells (the light-
producing cells) containing photogenic granules (not fat granules);
(3) large tracheal trunks and tracheoles; (4) nerve fibers; (5) nonpig-
mented and somewhat translucent sternal plates beneath the light-
producing cells. Pyrophorus (an elaterid) has a pair of light-organs
at the lateral tergal margins of the prothorax and also a single light-
organ on the ventral anterior median region of the abdomen.

In the larva of the tipulid fly, Bolitophila luminosa (Wheeler and
Williams, 1915), part of each Malpighian tubule is photogenic. This
is an interesting modification when one realizes that the essential
feature of the reflector layer is insoluble purine crystals. Insects with
luminescent organs also occur among the Collembola (Lipura, Am-
phorura, Neanura), the Neuroptera (Teleganoides, Coenis), and the
Diptera (Bolitophila and Ceroplatus larvae). Certain Collembola
(Heidt, 1936) secrete a luminous fiuid to the exterior, the lumines-
cence of which was shown not to be due to bacteria.

The interior of certain “firefly” eggs (Pyrophorus and various
lampyrids) luminesces even prior to any embryonic differentiation.
Dubois (1885) observed this to be the cause of error of some observers

3A “firefly” is any luminous beetle capable of flight, elaterid or lampyrid. A “‘glow-worm”’ is any prac-
tically wingless luminous beetle, larva, or adult.
380 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938

who had stated that light is given off by the whole body of the adult.
This statement of certain observers had already been refuted by some
of Dubois’ predecessors who, Dubois considered, must have noted
only males. In 1854 Carpenter affirmed that the egg of Lampyris
emits light when within the ovary, that the freshly laid eggs are
luminous, and that the light does not issue from luminous material
adhering to the egg but from the egg itself. The eggs of the common
North American lampyrids (Photinus, Photuris) are, on the other
hand, nonluminous (Buck, personal communication).

The larval light-organ, which is not identical with that of the adult,
persists and glows in the pupa and is absorbed only at the time the
adult emerges. Now, certain prominent biologists (such as Kuhnt,
1907; Pierantoni, 1914 and 1918; Buchner, 1914 and 1926) have
claimed that luminescence in insects is due to the presence of intra-
cellular symbiotic bacteria. Dubois’ (1914a) numerous attempts at
bacterial cultures from such light organs were negative and Harvey
and Hall (1929) banished this notion when they found that “‘the adult
luminous organ developed perfectly from larvae having both light-
organs removed.’’ The luminous granules in the photogenic cells are,
therefore, not due to microorganisms. Bacteria probably play a
nil factor in the luminosity of practically all species of living extant
Metazoa. Certain fishes, such as Photoblepharon and Anomalops
(cf. Harvey, 1921 and 1925), form the established exception to this
rule. It is of interest to note that only luminous bacteria, fungi,
and a few fish produce light continuously and that, as noted by
Harvey (1924), fishes which luminesce continuously have bacteria to
luminesce for them. If, then, continuous luminescence is a criterion
solely of luminous bacteria and fungi, it seems very probable that the
above fishes are the only luminous Metazoa which do not themselves
produce light but. which harbor symbiotic(?) luminous bacteria.

STIMULATION TO LUMINESCENCE

As already explained, only luminous bacteria and fungi produce
light continuously. Other forms emit light at intervals depending
upon the periods of stimulation.

1. Rhythmic synchronous flashing en masse—The phenomenon of the
strictly synchronous flashing of fireflies en masse, frequently observed
in the Tropics, has excited a considerable degree of interest and is the
subject of an excellent review by Buck (1938). Hence the literature
handled by Buck will not be dealt with here. Buck’s plausible
theory for the phenomenon will be treated at the end of this topic in
connection with the significance of flashing in the economy of fireflies.

In the journal Asia for February 1924 is an article by Carveth Wells
on his experiences in the Malay Archipelago (cf. Morse, 1924):
BIOLOGY OF LIGHT PRODUCTION—MALUF 381

The air was full of extraordinary fireflies. About every fifteen minutes these
flies separated into two armies, one settling on the trees growing on the left
bank of the river and the other on the right. Then, when I had decided that the
fireflies had gone to bed for the night, the whole army on the left bank gave one
big flash in perfect unison, which was immediately answered by one big flash on
the right. How these flies managed to keep time absolutely beats me, but they
did so, though there must have been thousands of them stretching along the
river-banks for a hundred yards or more. The illumination was so strong that
the branches of the trees could be seen quite distinctly.

This is only one exemplary case out of many. Several other animals
exhibit rhythmic synchronous behavior of various types, e. g., the
rhythmic synchronous chirping of certain crickets and locusts (Allard,
1918).

2. Diurnal rhythm.—Fireflies generally flash only at night, i. e.,
exhibit a 24-hour (diurnal) periodicity. In a paper read before the
American Society of Zoologists, Buck (1935 and 1937) described his
studies on the periodicity and diurnal rhythm in the firefly, Photinus
pyralis:

In nature, males of P. pyralis ordinarily flash every evening between 7 and
9p.m. The time of flashing is correlated with temperature and light intensity.
Males which have been in strong light long flash immediately if the intensity is
sufficiently reduced, regardless of the time of the day, showing that the regular
evening flashing period can be modified. Males kept continuously in darkness
do not flash. If, however, they are exposed to weak light they flash (regardless
of the time of the day) provided they have previously been in darkness 24, 48,
72, or 96 hours but not if they have been in darkness 12, 36, 60, or 84 hours. If
males which have been in darkness less than 24 hours are exposed to weak light
and left in it they do not flash until the sum of the time spent in darkness and the
time spent in weak light is equal approximately to 24 hours. It is thus apparent
that there exists in the firefly an inherent diurnal periodicity which is manifested
by periods of flashing which recur at 24-hour intervals and which persist for at
least four days in the uniform environment of the dark-room. It is also clear
that, although in the field this periodicity coincides with the diurnal changes in
light intensity, it is not actually linked to any specific hour of the day.

By ‘inherent’? Buck does not mean “inherited’’ but implies that
the 24-hour rhythm is produced by internal stimuli. A similar con-
dition had been noted in female larvae and female adults of Lam-
pyris noctiluca (Perkins, 1931). The animals exposed continuously to
light stopped glowing about the third day, while those receiving
diffuse light by day, and those in continued darkness continued to
glow at normal hours (10 p. m. to 4 a. m.) for about 2 weeks.

It has been noted that when the eggs of the stick-insect, Dizippus
(Schleip, 1914, 1920), are placed under constant light conditions the
adults no longer exhibit any periodicity in the migration of hypoder-
mal pigment granules. Similar experiments are necessary in order to
determine whether the internal stimulus producing the periodical
flashing in fireflies is inherited. The occurrence of diurnal rhythms in
general is the subject of a recent review by Welsh (1938).
382 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938

3. Basis of the rhythmic flashing of fireflies—Since when the photo-
genic cells are exposed directly to the air or when the intact animal
is placed in one atmosphere of approximately pure oxygen, lumines-
cence is continuous, it is clear that the regulation of the flashing
rhythm is a result of regulation of the oxygen supply.

Because destruction of the brain or severing of the nerve cord
anterior to the photogenic organs causes an immediate cessation of
light production (see also Peters, 1841; Macaire, 1822; Lund, 1911;
Williams, 1916-17) and because electrical stimulation of the ventral
nerve cord affects flashing (Heinemann, 1886; Perkins, 1931; Snell,
1931, 1932), the mechanism of oxygen regulation must be under
nervous control—probably a result of spontaneous discharges from
the brain. The presence of the brain is not necessary, however, if the
ventral nerve cord is electrically stimulated (Snell, 1931, 1932).

Lund (1911) showed that the control of flashing is not exercised
by a regulation of the blood flow (as was believed by Dubois, 1886)
or of the muscular respiratory mechanism (as was believed by Heine-
mann, 1886, and Watasé, 1895). He noted that no movements of
the skeleton, observable with a binocular, are synchronous with
flashing.

It has been the general opinion in America, among those interested
in the subject, that the nervous system exerts its control by acting on
the tracheal end-cells, especially since Schultze (1865), Bongardt
(1903), and Geipel (1915) sometimes observed fibers in contact with
these cells. The realization that even the ordinary hypodermal
cells of arthropods are generally richly supplied with a network of
multipolar nerve cells (Schleip, 1914; cf. Hanstrém, 1928; Tonner,
1933) would tend to weaken any conclusions from the above evidence.
Because the tracheal end-cell was sometimes stained darker than the
tracheoles, Dahlgren (1917) suggested that there might be a con-
tractile layer of cytoplasm around it. He then stated that “the large
body of cytoplasm surrounding it sometimes shows a radial structure
that may point to a contractile power.’’ His figure which illustrates
such a structure is, however, not convincing. As far as I know, no
one else has observed any such intracellular radial structure. Fur-
thermore, even if we did rest upon the hypothesis of a contractile
mechanism, it is incomprehensible how such a mechanism could
produce a rapid obliteration of oxygen diffusion into the photogenic
cells since some gaseous oxygen would still be present in the proximal
portions of the tracheoles and contraction of the end-cells would
merely compress the gas farther into the tracheoles and deeper into
the photogenic tissues. There seems to be nothing back of the
tracheal end-cell theory and, actually, the concept of a contractile
tracheal end-cell is in direct antithesis to facts that we know. Thus,
if contraction of the end-cells obliterates the oxygen supply, why
BIOLOGY OF LIGHT PRODUCTION—-MALUF 383

should anaesthesia of the normal animal initially abolish luminescence?
We would expect, on the contrary, the “contractile mechanism” to
relax and thus admit oxygen. Also, why should stimulation of the
ventral nerve cord of the decerebrate creature produce glowing?
We would expect, on the contrary, the “contractile mechanism” to
contract and thus impede the oxygen supply. The tracheal end-cells
are not exclusive to the photogenic organs but are present at the
tracheoles of all insects (cf. Deegener, 1928) and Bongardt (1903) has
described tracheal end-cells in the light-organs of larvae of Phos-
phaenus hemipterus—an animal which displays no brisk flashing
rhythm.

Now, von Wielowieski (1882), Emery (1884-86), Watasé (1895),
Bongardt (1903), and Townshend (1904) had believed that the
tracheoles entering the photogenic organs of Lampyridae terminate
intercellularly. Von Wielowieski (1889) later considered that they end
intracellularly. Williams’ (1916-17) illustrations indicate intracellular
penetration. Liund’s (1911) observations bear out the latter view-
point conclusively: ‘The fact that they do penetrate into the cyto.
plasm is clearly shown by the fact that cross-sections of the tracheoles
appear close to the nuclei of the large photogenic cells in the same
focal plane ” For other literature concerning the intra-
cellular penetration of tracheoles in the tissues of insects in general,
cf. Wigglesworth (1931).

Wigglesworth’s (1929, 1930, 1931, 1932) direct observations on the
motion of air and liquid into the tracheoles during activity and rest
of the corresponding tissues should be well known and will, in time,
become classical. His observations on translucent insects show that
the tracheoles do not collapse when the fluid leaves them. His con-
clusion with respect to the phenomenon is that, during activity,
due to elaboration of metabolites (e. g., lactic acid) of lower
molecular weight than the precursors, the osmotic pressure in the blood
and tissue fluids is raised, thus causing a withdrawal of liquid from the
semipermeable tracheoles into the tissues. The writer (1938) pre-
sented cogent evidence that light-production is the result of a rise
in the osmotic pressure of the photogenic cells consequent to a rise
in their metabolic activity as a result of nervous stimulation. The
rise in osmotic pressure must draw air into the tracheoles and thus
causes light production. With the immediate oxidation and recon-
version of the metabolites, the intracellular osmotic pressure must
fall rapidly and, as a consequence and due to capillarity, the tra-
cheoles will become filled with fluid once more and the photogenic
cells will cease to produce light (fig. 1). The oxygen that would
gradually diffuse into the photogenic cells through the column of
fluid in the tracheoles is probably only just adequate for maintenance
of the cells and would hence be consumed too rapidly to allow for
384 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938

the minimal intracellular oxygen pressure necessary for appreciable

luminescence.
4. Decline in the intensity of a flash—Brown and King (1931)
measured the intensity of the light produced by Photuris pennsyl-

FicuR£ 1.—Diagram illustrating the mechanism of the control of flashing in the “firefly.”

A. A spontaneous discharge from ganglion cell, g, in the brain, 6, is transmitted to the motor cell, m, in the
terminal abdominal ganglion, a, and from thence, along the motor fiber, to photogenic cells, p. This
excites these cells to activity, raising their osmotic pressure and thus withdrawing fluid from the tracheoles,
t. This admits air, coming through the trachea, tr, into the interior of the cell. e is the end-cell found
at the tracheoles of all insects.

B. Condition during inactivity of the specific cerebral ganglion cells, at which time the lactic acid is oxidized
to water and CO:, thus lowering the osmotic pressure in the photogenic cells. This allows the passage of
fluid, f, into the tracheoles by capillary pressure and thus keeps air from directly penetrating the cells.

vanica as a result of a single electrical stimulus. A series of responses
follows a single adequate stimulus with an increasing time interval
between each response, until the responses, declining in intensity,
eventually fade away (fig. 2). The decrease in light intensity following
BIOLOGY OF LIGHT PRODUCTION—MALUF 385

a stimulus implies a decrease in the velocity of a reaction in the
light-producing cells which, as Brown and King consider, can depend
only on differences in the concentrations of luciferin, luciferase, or
(and) oxygen. This consideration issues from the fact that we know
a number of things: (1) Molecular oxygen is necessary for the lumi-
nescence—1. e., the process is an oxidation; (2) a substrate, luciferin,
is oxidized through the agency of an enzyme classified among the
aerobic oxidases and termed luciferase; (3) according to the phe-
nomena of mass action, the velocity of a chemical reaction varies
directly with the concentration (activity) of the reacting components.
Owing to the fact that the luciferin-luciferase reaction shows a similar
relationship in vitro, where the oxy-
gen available is constant, to that de- lo
picted in figure 2, Brown and King
concluded that the declining concen- go
tration of the luciferin-luciferase
system was the determining factor
in the “‘die-away”’ portion of the re-
sponse. Because, however, of the
much slower decline in luminosity in 40
the in vitro conditions than in the in-
tact animal and because of the facts
stated in the following subsection, it
seems probable that the decline in
luminosity in the intact animal is 09 6 2060
due to a decrease in the concentra- ricurz 2—The magnitude of the photogenic
tion of oxygen ip the vicinity of the response of Photuris pennsyloanica initiated by
: a single electrical stimulus. Ordinate: intens-
photogenic cells. ity of the flash in terms of the initial (=100).
5. Significance of luminescence in Abscissa: time scale (10 units =0.833 seconds).
‘ (After Brown and King.)
the economy of an animal.—After re-
viewing the literature on the subject, Gazagnaire (1890) came to
the conclusion that the intensity of luminescence in geophilid chilo-
pods is intimately correlated with the time of sexual activity. Car-
penter (1854) had already remarked that the same holds true for
insects. The increase in the intensity of luminescence at such a
time may be due to a raised rate of metabolism at this time; or, in
the words of Carpenter, ‘‘the activity of this combustion is stimulated
by anything which excites the vital functions of the individual.” The
notion, however, that luminescence has a secondary sexual function
in chilopods cannot be upheld, since all the Geophilidae (the order
which includes the luminous forms) are eyeless. In fireflies, on the
other hand, the case is quite different. Thus, according to Mast
(1912, 1923), ‘‘the female [firefly] in response to a flash of light pro-
duced by the male turns the ventral surface of her abdomen toward

60

20
386 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938

him no matter where he may be located; and the male, in response
to a flash of light produced by the female, turns and flies or walks
directly toward her no matter where she may be located.” (See also
Osten-Sacken, 1861; and McDermott, 1912, 1917.)

It remained for Buck (1935, 1937a) to determine how the male
distinguishes the flash of a female from that of another male. Thus,
at nightfall the female firefly (Photinus pyralis) climbs up on the
herbage and the male flies about, flashing at fairly regular intervals
of about 5.8 seconds at 24° C. The female responds by flashing
2.1 seconds after the male flash. The length of the response interval
also varies inversely with the temperature.

The male responds to flashes of artificial light and to flashes produced by other
males if they occur about 2 seconds after his flash. This shows that no possible
difference in the color, duration, or intensity of the light produced by the two
sexes, or difference in the relative motion or form of the luminous area, is of any
importance in enabling the male to distinguish between flashes emitted by male
and female. The essential factor in the ability of the male to distinguish between
flashes produced by the female and those produced by other males is the fact
that the female invariably responds to the flash of the male at a nearly constant
level of 2 seconds.

The synchronous flashing of masses of fireflies has been explained
by an application of the above facts (Buck, 1935a, 1937c, 1938).
Thus, other males may join in precise unison even though they had
been flashing asynchronously originally. This involves a readjustment
of the phase but not of the frequency. Similarly, other females in
the vicinity may act accordingly—i. e., a single pair may cause a
swarm of synchronous flashings. In other cases, however, swarms
may exhibit no synchronism (e. g., Photinus pallens, a Jamaican firefly).
Sheer photopositivity is the probable explanation for the huge swarm
of P. pallens, since swarm-nuclei of this species may be artificially
formed by flashlight. In such cases, mating ‘‘appears to be due
entirely to accidental contact of the sexes during their peregrinations
on the branches. The aggregation habit thus seems to take the
place of the accurate systems of flashing signals which serve to bring
male and female together . . .”’ (Buck, 1937c).

CHEMICAL PHENOMENA

1. Luminescence an oxidative process—In 1667, Boyle, by means of
a modified von Guericke (1634, 1672) air pump, discovered that air is
necessary for the existence of animals and for the luminescence of
bacteria (although, of course, he did not recognize the bacteria as such)
and “glowworms” (Lampyris sp. larva or the wingless luminous adult
English female). Following the discovery of oxygen by Lavoisier,
Spallanzani (1796) was evidently the first to indicate that biolumines-
cence is an oxidative piocess. Murray (1826) showed that when oxy-
BIOLOGY OF LIGHT PRODUCTION—MALUF 387

gen is replaced by irrespirable gases luminescence in Lampyris is abol-
ished. ‘The phosphorescence,’’ wrote Carpenter (1854) concerning
luminescence in fireflies, “appears to be occasioned by the slow com-
bustion of a peculiar organic compound, the production of which is de-
pendent for its continuance upon the life and health of the animal; the
activity of this combustion is stimulated by anything which excites the
vital functions of the individual, and it is particularly influenced by the
energy of the respiratory process. If the opening of the trachea which
supplies the luminous sac be closed, so as to check the access of air to its
contents, the light ceases [italics mine]; but if the sac be lifted from its
place, without injuring the tracheae, the light is not interrupted. In
all active movements of the body in which respiration is energetic, the
light is proportionally increased in brilliancy. If the luminous seg-
ments be separated from the rest of the body, they continue phos-
phorescent for some time.” The italicized observation shows that
there is no effective ventilation of the air in the tracheae of the lumi-
nescent organ by other spiracles than those belonging to the light-
producing segments (see also Heinemann, 1886; Hess, 1921; and
Maluf, 1938). In fact, Lyonnet’s early observations (confirmed by
others, cf. Babak, 1921) show that ventilation is to a great extent seg-
mentally localized even in tracheates with as well developed a tracheal
system as caterpillars. Ofsianikof (1863) also found that the luminos-
ity of Lampyris noctiluca ceases in vacuo but recommences on the read-
mission of a little air and becomes very dull in an atmosphere con-
taining an excessive amount of carbon dioxid. Temporary immersion
in glycerin also caused a cessation of luminescence possibly due to a
plugging of the spiracles. The condition was quite reversible, how-
ever, upon washing with water, in which glycerin is soluble. That
oxygen is actually used up in the photogenic process itself and that the
absence of luminescence in the absence of oxygen is not merely due to a
general interference with the cellular functions was first shown by
Dubois who found that luminous extracts of arthropods and the mol-
lusk, Pholas, will not emit light in the absence of oxygen but will do so
upon the readmission of oxygen. These findings have been confirmed
by Kastle and McDermott (1910), Harvey (1916a, 1917b, 1920), and
others.

Contrary results were presented by Kanda (1920, 1920a), who noted
that the intensity of ight produced by an aqueous suspension of luci-
ferin-luciferase from the Japanese ostracod, Cypridina hilgendorfii
is strongest and lasts longest in water saturated with hydrogen
from which other gases, including oxygen, had been discharged. The
intensity of light produced by a luciferin-luciferase suspension of this
animal was weakest and lasted least in water saturated with oxygen.
Although Kanda admitted that very little oxygen might have been
present in spite of elaborate precautions, he concluded that the produc-

1147283926
388 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938

tion of light by Cypridina hilgendorfii is not the result of oxidation.
Four years prior to Kanda’s work, Harvey’s (1916a) experiments, in
which oxygen was replaced by hydrogen, showed that oxygen is neces-
sary for light production in Cypridina hilgendorfii. Harvey, then,
also called attention to the fact that every other organism studied was
found to require oxygen for luminescence. In reply to Harvey’s
criticism, Kanda endeavored to justify his previous results by checking
his technique on a Japanese firefly, Lwciola witticollis. In this animal
no light was produced by the isolated photogenic organs in an atmos-
phere of pure hydrogen or nitrogen, or ina vacuum. ‘The intensity of
light was greatest in an atmosphere of pure oxygen. Kanda thus
concluded that his technique was quite irreproachable and that the
production of light by L. vitticollis is the result of oxidation while that
in Cypridinais not. Biologists were now faced by a new enigma—why
Cypridina can luminesce without oxygen while this phenomenon in
Luciola imperatively requires oxygen. That this problem was only
man-made soon became apparent when Harvey (1920) removed all
traces of the oxygen present in commercial hydrogen gas by passing
the commercial product over hot platinum coils. Under such condi-
tions the oxygen, present as an impurity, combines with an equivalent
amount of hydrogen and forms water. When gaseous hydrogen so
treated was used, all light production by C. hilgendorfit completely
disappeared. ‘“The luminescent secretion of Cypridina hilgendorfir
will still give off much light if hydrogen containing only 0.4 percent
oxygen is bubbled through it ... At 7 mm of oxygen [1. e., 1 vol.
percent] the light of Cypridina is as bright as if the solution were satu-
rated with air [152 mm of oxygen]”’ (Harvey, 1919). In 1923, Harvey
and Morrison described a method for measuring the concentration of
oxygen necessary to allow just perceptible luminescence of luminous
bacteria. The value was 1 part by weight of oxygen to 37X10 cc of
sea water. Shapiro (1934) studied the light intensity of lumimous
bacteria as a function of oxygen pressure.

More recently the question as to whether free oxygen is necessary for
luminescence of the luciferin-luciferase extracts of all luminous animals
became reopened (although unfortunately not to any great extent)
when Harvey (1926b) and Harvey and Korr (1938), even by the use of
the most drastic methods, found that a few animals (or dried extracts
of the same) can luminesce without oxygen. These are the Cteno-
phora, the medusa Pelagia noctiluca, and radiolarians. All luminous
pennatulids, annelids, echinoderms, arthropods, and cephalopods
could not luminesce without atmospheric oxygen. Harvey suggested
that, in the former, the oxygen may be bound up by the photogenic
granules. It is possible, on the other hand, especially since “‘stored
oxygen” has gained disfavor, that these lower Metazoa are still

a se a el
BIOLOGY OF LIGHT PRODUCTION—MALUF 389

capable of a marked truly anaerobic metabolism and that their
luminescent reactions partake of this phase of their metabolism.

2. The mechanism of bioluminescent reactions —Unlike the oxidation
of foodstuffs, the oxidation of luciferin does not appear to result in an
evolution of COs, or, at least not enough CO, is produced (pH determi-
nations by means of a sensitive potentiometer) during luminescence to
saturate the proteins in solution since “‘the acidity of the luciferin solu-
tion, luciferase solution, and the two after mixing was found to be the
same, pH 9.04” (Harvey, 1931). Good evidence that the luciferin-
oxyluciferin change is a dehydration-hydrogenation reaction is pre-
sented by the fact that dry oxyluciferin, when first exposed to atomic
hydrogen, produces light upon the addition of a solution of luciferase;
otherwise, dry oxyluciferin plus a solution of luciferase does not pro-
duce light. Evidently atomic hydrogen is capable of adequately re-
ducing oxyluciferin to luciferin.

The luciferase is not merely a catalyst in the reaction but evidently
supplies molecules which may be excited to emit light by the energy
released upon the oxidation of luciferin. These activated molecules
may thus return to their initial state (Harvey, 1932, 1935). This
is indicated by the fact that when the luciferin from one animal can
be energized to produce luminescence with the luciferase of a closely
related species, the species (or sex) supplying the luciferase determines
the color of the resulting luminescence and by the fact that Cypridina
luciferin, when oxidized alone in aqueous solution, never emits light
even though the velocity of its oxidation may be greater than in the
presence of luciferase. The decay curve of light intensity in a luci-
ferin-luciferase solution is monomolecular, indicating that only one
molecule of luciferin is being transformed (Amberson, 1922). The
entire scheme may be expressed thus (Harvey, 1935, 1935a):

(Luciferase accelerates)

(a) Luciferin (LH,)+1/2 O02 —> oxyluciferin (L’)-+H,0
(b) L’+luciferase (A) — L+A’
(c) A’ ——> A-+hp» (light quanta)
The prime (’) indicates the excited molecules.
The reaction somewhat resembles that of the reduction of methy-
lene blue:

a

MBH,+1/2 O,
(reduced methylene blue) (reductants)

MB-+ H,0

Aluminum, zinc, magnesium powders, or other inorganic reducing
agents will reduce oxyluciferin to luciferin as they will reduce methy-
lene blue to the colorless compound. In both cases the reactions are
reversible. Further evidence that the reaction is similar to the oxi-
dation of a leuco-dye, rather than to the oxidation of a substance like
390 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938

benzaldehyde by peroxid formation, is that diphenylamine (a nega-
tive catalyst for the oxidation of benzaldehyde) has no effect on the
luminescence of a luciferin-luciferase reaction (Harvey, 1918, 1928).

Alkali, within limits, favors the oxidation of luciferin to oxylucif-
erin (by luciferase) with the resultant production of light, while acid
favors the reduction of oxyluciferin to luciferin with the consequent
decrease in the glow. These facts are in accord with oxidations and
reductions in general.

The activity of aerobic oxidases is destroyed by cyanid concentra-
tions of the order of M/10,000. On the other hand, the activity of
anaerobic oxidases (oxidases which do not accelerate oxidations pro-
duced by molecular oxygen) and of dehydrogenases are not affected
by cyanid except in relatively high concentrations of the latter.
M/5,000 KCN reduces the luminescence of luminous bacteria to only
20-25 percent but KCN (even M/250) does not influence the lumi-
nescence of Cypridina luciferin-luciferase. M/20 KCN, while it
does not extinguish the luminescence of the Cypridina preparation,
diminishes its brightness—i. e., presumably decreases the mass of
active luciferase (Harvey, 1916a and b, 1917b, 1932). The reason
for the almost nil effect of KCN on the action of luciferase—quite
apparently an aerobic oxidase—is problematical. Since it has not
been possible to prepare luminous extracts of bacteria, fungi, or
medusae (Harvey, 1924, 1926b) and since it is known that the bacterial
dehydrogenases are closely bound up with cell structure, Harvey (1935)
has suggested that luciferase may be a specialized type of dehydro-
genase in which oxygen is absolutely required as a specific hydrogen
acceptor.

3. Luciferins and luciferases. (a) Properties—To Dubois belongs
the credit for the fundamental discovery of the presence of the sub-
strate, luciferin, and the enzyme, luciferase, involved in luminescence.
In 1885 he found that an aqueous extract of the photogenic organ of
a beetle will luminesce in the presence of air and that cellular structure
is thus not essential for the production of light (exceptions to such a
discovery have been noted above). Such an extract was, however,
continuously luminescent so long as it endured, there being no peri-
odicity in the production of light. From what has been said concern-
ing the mechanism of flashing, the reason for this is quite apparent.
In 1887 (a and b) he showed that bioluminescence requires the presence
of at least four substances, the following three of which had already
been recognized: (1) Air [oxygen] (Boyle); (2) water (Spallanzani,
1794); and, of course, (3) a photogenic substance(s). By dialysis
through celloidin, two separate solutions were obtained from an
aqueous extract of the photogenic organs of fireflies. Neither the
dialysate nor the residual solution luminesced. When both solutions
were mixed light was reproduced. This at once established the
BIOLOGY OF LIGHT PRODUCTION——-MALUF 391

presence of at least two distinct substances. The substance in the
residual solution was destroyed at temperatures of 60° C. or above
and was insoluble in petroleum-ether or benzene. The substance in
the dialysate was relatively thermostable and soluble in water, petro-
leum-ether, and benzene. Dubois termed the substance in the
dialysate, luciferin; and that in the residual solution luciferase, since
he soon discovered that the latter substance exhibited the properties
of an enzyme—i. e., a protein with catalytic properties.

As first observed by Spallanzani (1794) on luminous medusae,
water is necessary for bioluminescence. Kastle and McDermott
(1910) dried the photogenic material of a firefly in vacuo over con-
centrated sulphuric acid. In the dry state no light was emitted.
After keeping the material quite dry for over 13 months luminescence
was produced upon moistening with water. Similar results were
obtained by Harvey (1916a) on Cypridina hilgendorfii. In 1918
Harvey dried Cypridina rapidly and stored the product. In 1928,
when this was powdered and moistened, the luminescence was as
intense as in 1918. Even in aqueous solution, if auto-oxidation was
impeded, luciferin was noted to remain stable for at least 4 years.
Luciferase in solution saturated with NaCl deteriorates more rapidly
(Harvey, 1928a).

There was a time when Harvey (1916a, d) contradicted Dubois’
work at its very foundations by considering that luciferase itself is the
source of light and is not an enzyme causing light production by the
oxidation of luciferin. Harvey’s statements grew from experiments
in which light was obtained from Cypridina luciferase by substances
incapable of oxidation (e. g., pure NaCl, MgSO,, chloroform, ether,
and pilocarpin—all in aqueous solution) which were believed to act
as substitutes for lucifer. Harvey thereby adopted new names after
deciding that those of Dubois were unfit: (1) ‘‘Photogenin’” (=
luciferase of Dubois), or the light-producer; and (2) “photophelein’”’
(=luciferin of Dubois), or light assister. Upon further work with
Cypridina, however, Harvey (1918) readopted Dubois’ terms of
luciferin and luciferase. Harvey’s error in this matter lay in his
preparation of a luciferin-‘‘free” solution. He allowed a luciferin-
luciferase solution to stand in air till all light ceased, when he assumed
that the luciferin was consumed, for light was not produced until
further luciferin was added. Upon the addition of NaCl, MgSO,,
ether, or chloroform (a fine array of diverse substances) to the solution
in which the luciferin was supposedly consumed, light was again
produced. He later found that a luciferase solution separated from
luciferin by dialysis did not act in this manner (see also Kanda, 1920)
and therefore concluded that luciferin probably consists of two sub-
stances, one of which is set free to be acted upon by luciferase when
sodium chlorid, magnesium sulphate, ether, or chloroform are added.
392 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938

It should be noted, however, that while Harvey had erroneously
believed that luciferase was not an enzyme but itself the substance
oxidized with the production of light, he was probably quite right,
owing to facts stated under the topic on the mechanism of light-pro-
duction, in believing luciferase to be the main source of light.

Before we leave the question of the effect of inorganic salts on
luminescence, it is of interest to note that NaCl and a number of
other salts markedly increase the total amount of ight emitted during
the reaction of a given amount of lucifer (Anderson, 1937). This
may have teleological significance as the luminescent reaction, when
produced by Cypridina, takes place in sea water—a salt solution.
“‘One explanation of the increased light emission in solutions of sodium
chloride is that a change occurred in the activated molecule which
made it less likely to lose its energy in collisions with the solvent or
with added potassium iodide or thiocyanate.”

There are luciferins and luciferases. Thus, luciferm from the
firefly, Photuris (a lampyrid), will produce light with luciferase from
the firefly, Pyrophorus (an elaterid), and vice versa. But the luci-
ferin and luciferase of Cypridina, an ostracod, will not luminesce with
firefly luciferase or luciferin, respectively (Harvey, 1919, 1928). Liuci-
ferin of the shrimp, Systellaspis, will not give light with luciferase of
the ostracod, Cypridina, nor will Cypridina luciferin luminesce with
the luciferase of Systellaspis (Harvey, 1931la) or of the mollusk,
Pholas (Harvey, 1919, 1928). Since the luciferases are quite specific,
only closely related forms luminesce when their photogens are inter-
mixed. (See also Harvey, 1926a). The spectrum is always the same
as that of the animal supplying the luciferase. The significance of
this has already been pointed out.

Cypridina luciferin, furthermore, differs from that of the mollusk,
Pholas dactylus (Dubois, 1913, 1914; Harvey, 1919, 1928), in that the
latter will oxidize with light-production when acted upon by various
oxidizing agents (e. g., potassium permanganate, hydrogen peroxide,
oxyhaemoglobin, but not with nascent oxygen in the absence of
luciferase). Extracts of many nonluminous animals will oxidize
Pholas luciferin with light-production, but not so with Cypridina
luciferin. ‘Oxidation of [Cypridina] luciferin at anodes of various
metals by nascent oxygen or oxidation by colloidal platinum or
palladium and oxygen or other oxidizing agents never results in
luminescence in the absence of luciferase.’”’ Luciferin, in 95 to 99
percent alcohol (in which luciferase is not soluble) will luminesce
faintly if heated to 70° C. or if minute amounts of solid KMnO,,
disuccinyl peroxid, K,;Fe(CN), PtCl,, PdCl., and Ca hypochlorite are
added. These facts do not at all imply that, in bioluminescence,
luciferin is the source of light since—
BIOLOGY OF LIGHT PRODUCTION—MALUF 393

aqueous solutions of luciferin, even if luciferase is also present, will not luminesce
at this temperature. It is possible that in alcohol the oxidation proceeds at the
surface of luciferase particles, which pass the filter paper, suspended in the liquid.
The luminescence is not to be compared in brightness with that in aqueous solu-
tions with luciferase, and I mention these results merely as a matter of record, as
the only cases where Cypridina luciferin alone will luminesce. I do not believe
they are necessarily significant for the theory of bioluminescence because so many
organic substances luminesce on oxidation with strong oxidizing agents (Harvey,
1928).

Various plants contain substances which, when added even to a
minute concentration of pyrogallol (even 1: 254,000)+H,O, yield
light (Harvey,1916e). These substances are probably certain vege-
table peroxidases.

If one mixes a test tube containing pyrogallol solution-+ hydrogen peroxide with
potato or turnip juice or almost any plant extract, a yellowish luminescence
appears. The plant extract loses the power to cause such luminescence on
boiling and the peroxidaze will not dialyze. It is, of course, comparable to
luciferase and acts on the thermostable, dialyzable pyrogallol-hydrogen peroxide
mixture, which is comparable to luciferin... . Although many hydroxy-phenol
and amino-phenol compounds can be oxidized by peroxidase and hydrogen
peroxide, only pyrogallol and gallic acid will oxidize with light production (Harvey).

Table 1.—Properties of luciferase and luciferin

. Luciferin
Property Luciferase (more simple than luciferase)
Salting out:
Saturation with NaCl_-____._____ Not precipitated... 2-2 3_..22-. = — Not ppd
¥ saturation with (NH4)2SO4_-.-.| Slightly precipitated_-__._.._._-__-
af ee with (N H4)2SO4____-- Completely precipitated__.__..-__- Nearly completely precipitated.
olubility:
Ethyl alcohol 90 percent________- RISOLUDIG=25 eee ee ee sabato
Ethyl alcohol 70 percent___-_.---|____- Osco eens 45. Gee ee ee
Ethyl alcohol 50 percent_________ Sliphtly soluble: 5-22-23 eat be.
Acetone 90 percent___-..__._____- TRSOT ple ate ee ee Do.
1 OF U2) ee 5 ae a ee Bee en Ree Ae MG tec2 Se 2535522 Se A ae, Insoluble.
Wilorolorine ee eee ee ee ees (Cpa EC iat Te a cette 5, a ieee ae Do.
DIG) Ee eRe SS ee Bee ee bs (fie aN See ee eo ee ee Do.
Alkaloidal reagents:
Phosphotungstic acid_-_______-_- Completely precipitated _-_--.-...-- Noe eeany completely precip-
itated.
Picriciacides sae ee ee Nearly precipitated_.._..._______- Not precipitated.
Heavy metal salts:
Basic leadacetatesc.. -.-— seo 2 Completely precipitated__-________ Not completely precipitated.
Acids and alkalis:
INP OS ee See ee eee eee Not peeuipmated de a= He Be Not precipitated.
ERrichiprAaceviepGlder eos ee oe fee One eee yee eee ees Do.
5 HCl, after 16 hours boiling__-___- Daas Se ee eo ee, Hydrolysed.
eat:
CSL CS ep: PO ae ae Oe Irreversibly destroyed___.------__- Not destroyed.
Ruins eee ee ee ee ee Clo ete ella as leg oi, Sein Wh es Do.
Boiling with 4 percent H2SO,4 for | Destroyed-_--_.__----_---_-------- Do.
10 hours.
Boiling for 24 hours with 4 per- |_____ (61) ee ee ees ene a Destroyed.
cent H2SO4.

Enzyme action: ‘
Trypsin, erepsin, amylase, | Destroyed only by pepsin (?), by| Not destroyed.
urease, sucrase, pepsinase, trypsin, erepsin, and something

rennin. in spleen and liver extracts.
IBTUTet reachiOn eee een eee ee Positives <= .222---2-o oan ees Negative.
Dial sisus <2 2 ee Se Pe Will not dialyse through celloidin__| Will dialyse through celloidin.
Immunological (Harvey and Deit- | Produces an antibody_-___________- Does not produce an antibody.

rick, 1930).

Table 1 represents a summary of the most important data disclosed
by Harvey with regard to the properties of the luciferin and luciferase
394 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938

of Cypridina hilgendorfii. His results have been largely confirmed by
Kanda (1921 and 1924). Luciferase exhibits definite protein prop-
erties, or, “if luciferase is not a protein it is so closely bound up with
a protein that it cannot be separated.”’ Harvey estimated that 1 gm
of luciferase can accelerate the oxidation of 10,000 gms of luciferin
with the production of light. The fact that the activity of luciferase
is gradually diminished in the reaction does not prevent its being
classed among the organic catalysts (enzymes). Enzymes, in general,
are gradually used up in the reactions they generate and accelerate.
The chemical nature of luciferin is not as yet determined and Anderson
(1933, 1935, 1936) cannot agree with Kanda (1930) that it is a phos-
pholipid. Nearly complete precipitation by a saturated solution of
ammonium sulphate or phosphotungstic acid, insolubility in fat
solvents and hydrolysis by prolonged boiling with hydrolic acid,
indicate protein properties. On the other hand, solubility in con-
centrated alcohol and acetone, nondigestibility by proteolytic enzymes,
and the absence of a biuret reaction are not protein characteristics.

(b) Distribution in organisms.—While luciferin has been ascribed
to various tissues of Cypridina hilgendorfir, luciferase is strictly
localized in the photogenic cells (Harvey, 1919). This is in contrast
to the phenomena of melanin formation in the elytra of Leptinotarsa
beetles, where the enzyme tyrosinase is distributed but the substrate
localized (Gortner, 1911). In earlier work, Harvey (1916a, 1917a)
believed that luciferin, but not luciferase, is also found in nonluminous
species of Cypridina. On the other hand, Kanda (1920) disagreed
with Harvey but agreed with Dubois by finding luciferin solely in the
photogenic cells of Cypridina and not in nonluminous species. Harvey
(1924a) later agreed with this view.

(c) Evolution —Bioluminescence is scattered throughout the animal
kingdom below the Amphibia but does not seem to carry any appar-
ent phylogenetic significance. As with regard to haemoglobin,
therefore, one would look for a certain basic substance present in
practically all aerobic cells which may be capable of giving rise to the
photogenic substances at random. Now, Harvey (1932) has pointed
out that fluorescent substances, such as practically all proteins, are
most likely to luminesce, and hence suggested that proteins with an
unusually bright ‘‘photophore”’ group are possibly seized in evolution
and made to luminesce by the energy of the oxidative dehydrogenation
of a luciferin.

Is it merely a matter of chance that luminescence does not occur
among fresh-water forms?

PHYSICAL PHENOMENA

1. Efficiency in light production.—In the Philosophical Transactions
of the Royal Society of London for 1671, volume 1, page 603, is a brief
BIOLOGY OF LIGHT PRODUCTION—-MALUF 395

article bearing the authorship of John Templer and the title, “Some
Observations Concerning Glow-worms.”’ The note runs thus: ‘‘Mr.
T. also persuaded himself that he perceived a degree of heat from the
insect, when shining in its fullest splendour.” In contrast to the
foregoing statement we have the following in a recent semipopular
article by Parlin (1935): ‘“The ratio between the intensity of the light
[of a firefly] thus produced and the amount of matter oxidized is the
largest known to science, the efficiency being better than 95 percent!
Most of the energy in the latter case is radiated in the form of heat

How the firefly can radiate ‘cold light,’ free from the enormous
amount of heat which is present in all man-made sources of light, is a
problem which has baffled science for many years, and its solution will
revolutionize our lighting industry.’’ As will become apparent below,
both of the above viewpoints are unconscious exaggerations.

The efficiency of a light source may be defined in three ways: (1)
The radiational efficiency, or the percentage of visible wave-lengths in
the total amount of radiation emitted,i.e., the amount of visible radi-
ation emitted divided by the total (heat, visible, and actinic) radiation;
(2) the subjective radiational efficiency obtained by taking into account
the sensibility of the eye to different wave lengths, i. e. (visible radia-
tion X visual sensitivity) total radiation; or (3) by the amount of
light produced in relation to a given expenditure of energy, i. e., the
total efficiency. Since the amount of heat evolved by a firefly during
luminescence, in excess of the basal metabolic level, or by an in vitro
luciferin-luciferase system has not been amenable to measurement
even by use of most refined technique (Langley and Very, 1890;
Langley, 1902; Coblentz, 1912) and since photography and other
methods have shown that apparently all the waves emitted are within
the visible region (see below), the radiational efficiency of biolumi-
nescence appears to be 100 percent. Harvey has pointed out, how-
ever, that it can be calculated that the amount of heat evolved from
the luciferin-luciferase concentrations so far used exceeds the limits
of error of available methods. At this point, Franklin’s statement,
“being only discovered when separating,’’ mentioned at the beginning
of this article, is symbolic. A work of great significance at this point
is that in which Harvey (1927a, 1935) showed that, for the production
of only one quantum of light of \=0.48u in an in vitro system of
Cypridina luciferin-luciferase, about 100 molecules of oxygen must
react with the luciferin. The total efficiency of such a reaction would
thus be only about 1 percent, i. e., well below the total efficiency of a
number of man-made sources of light, including the incandescent ones
(see Hodgman, C. D. and N. A. Lange: Handbook of Chemistry and
Physics). The total efficiency of luminescences in general is not as
great as is commonly imagined. Thus, the efficiency of radiolumines-
cence (radium-+ZnS) is about 1 percent (Hess, 1922); of phospho-
396 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938

rescence is only 0.015 percent (Adams, 1924). “If the efficiency of
other chemiluminescences proves to be as low as this, the commercial
significance of luminescence seems doubtful, to say the least. What
we really need in the case of luminous animals is a determination of the
heat of oxidation of luciferin together with the quantity of light pro-
duced per calorie, in order that the efficiency may be calculated”
(Harvey, 19242). Now, the total efficiency of an acetylene flame is
about 17.7 percent; that of a sodium arc light about 60 percent; that
of a carbon filament about 4.54 percent (cf. Hodgman and Lange,
loc. cit.). To say that ‘an area of firefly light 6 feet in diameter on
the ceiling of a room 9 feet high would give ample illumination for
reading or drawing on a table 3 feet high” (Harvey, 1931c) is of in-
trinsic interest but is not adequate in convincing an illuminating
engineer who is interested in efficiency. In various circumstances,
however, a hot flame is not desirable and may be dangerous, while
luminescence would be harmless

2. Intensity of the light—The intensity of bioluminescence is
measured by a sensitive photoelectric cell and compared with that of a
standard lamp. In an in vitro suspension of luciferin-luciferase, the
intensity of light varies directly with the concentration of the suspension
and with the temperature within limits (Qye=ca. 2.74; Amberson,
1922). Even as little as one gram of the dry photogenic material of
Cypridina hilgendorfii will yield visible light when suspended in
1,700,000,000 gm (or cc) of water (Harvey, 1916a). The maximum
brightness of a prothoracic light organ of the intact firefly, Pyrophorus,
is 0.0002 candle at 20° C. (Harvey and Stevens, 1928). Coblentz
(1912) recorded an intensity variation for the firefly, Photinus pyralis,
varying between 0.020 and 0.0025 candle with the predominating
value at about 0.0025 candle. This insect will sometimes glow steadily
with a glow as low as 0.000020 candle in intensity (Harvey, 1919).
The average brightness of Photuris pennsylvanica is about 0.00067
candle (Parlin, 1935). During the Spanish-American war, Maj. Gen.
W. C. Gorgas, according to Parlin, “used the light from a bottle of
fireflies to carry out an operation.”

3. Wave lengths represented.—All light waves emitted by biolumines-
cence are, so far as known, within the range of the visible spectrum.
The light produced by the firefly, Photinus (Harvey, 1919), extends
only to the beginning of the blue, forming a band through the red to
the end of the green with a wave-length range of 6700 A. to 5100 A.
Other fireflies exhibit similar ranges (Pasteur, 1864; Young, 1870;
Langley and Very, 1890; Ives, 1910; Ramdas and Venkiteshwaran,
1931; Buck, 1937a, b). In the elaterid, Pyrophorus plagiophthalmus
(Buck, 1937b), the spectrum of the thoracic organ extends from 5075 A
to 6400 A.; that of the abdominal organ, from 5350 A. to 6400 A.
BIOLOGY OF LIGHT PRODUCTION-——-MALUF 397

In a classical work, Langley and Very (1890), by comparing the
spectrum of the firefly, Pyrophorus noctilucus, with a solar spectrum
of equal intensity, showed that the brevity in extent of the luminescent
spectrum is not due to weakness of the red and blue rays but to their
absence (limits: A=4680 A. to \=0.640 A.).

In the firefly and in ostracods, at least, a rise in temperature shifts
the spectrum toward the longer wave lengths, i. e., toward the red
(Macaire, 1821; Polimanti, 1911; Harvey, 1924,1927b). This condition
is true both in vivo and in vitro. Harvey (1927b) has suggested that
this may be due to a change in the aggregation state of the colloidal
particles of the luciferin.

SUMMARY

1. A luminescent body is one which radiates light at a low tempera-
ture and the light of which is not the result of (high) temperature.

2. Bioluminescence is a form of chemiluminescence and, except
for certain primitive Metazoa, requires free oxygen.

3. Among arthropods, light-producing organs occur in various
crustaceans, centipedes, and insects.

4. Unlike centipedes, luminescence in beetles serves for sexual
attraction.

5. Bioluminescence is controlled by the oxygen supply to the
luminescent cells. As a result of nervous stimuli (which are often
periodical), the metabolic rate of the photogenic cells is presumably
raised with the consequent liberation of metabolites. The latter, by
raising the osmotic pressure of the tissue fluids, as evidence indicates,
presumably would cause a withdrawal of fluid from the tracheoles of
the photogenic cells and would, thus, supply the cells with more
oxygen.

6. There are several luciferins and luciferases. The latter group
not only catalyze the oxidation of luciferm but evidently become
activated by the process and thus emit light in reverting to the original
state.

7. Under conditions which simulate the biological, the oxidation of
luciferin will not produce light except when reacting with luciferase.

8. The total efficiency of bioluminescence is apparently very low,
being of the magnitude of approximately 1 percent. The radiational
efficiency of bioluminescence may prove to be the highest that is
known to science.

9. All light waves emitted are well within the range of the human-
visible spectrum (A=0.390 to 0.810u). The luciferase and not the
luciferin determines the type of spectrum in bioluminescence.

The writer is much indebted to Prof. E. Newton Harvey (Princeton
University) and Dr. John B. Buck (Carnegie Institution) for having
read and criticized the above article before its final printing. Needless
to say, however, all responsibility falls on the author.
398 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938

LITERATURE
Apams, E. Q.
1924. The luminous efficiency of chemi-luminescent reactions. Physical
Rev., vol. 23, p. 771.
ALLARD, H. A.
1918. Rhythmic synchronism in the chirping of certain crickets and locusts.
Amer. Nat., vol. 52, p. 548.
AMBERSON, W.
1922 a. Kinetics of the bioluminescent reaction in Cypridina. I. Journ.
Gen. Physiol., vol. 4, p. 517.
1922 b. II. Ibid., vol. 4, p. 535.
ANDERSON, R. S.
1933. Chemical studies on bioluminescence. I. Quantitative determination
of luciferin. Journ. Cell. Comp. Physiol., vol. 3, p. 45.
1935. II. The partial purification of Cypridina luciferin. Journ. Gen.
Physiol., vol. 19, p. 301.
1936. III. The reversible reaction of Cypridina luciferin with oxidising agents
and its relations to the luminescent reaction. Journ. Cell.
Comp. Physiol., vol. 8, p. 261.
1937. IV. Salt effects on the total light emitted by a chemi-luminescent
reaction. Journ. Chem. Soc., vol. 59, p. 2115.
BaBAkx, E.
1921. Die Mechanik und Innervation der Atmung. Arthropoden. In Hans
Winterstein’s Handb. Vergl. Physiol., vol. 1, No. 2, pp. 326-534.
BoNnGARDT, J. .
1903. Beitrige zur Kenntniss der Leuchtorgane einheimischer Lampyriden.
Zeitschr. Wiss. Zool., vol. 75, p. 1.
Boytgs, R.
1667. Experiments concerning the relation between light and air in shining
wood and fish. Philos. Trans. Roy. Soc., vol. 2, p. 206.
Brown, E. S., and Kina, C. V.
1931. The nature of the photogenic response of Photuris pennsylvanica.
Physiol. Zool., vol. 4, p. 287.
Bucuner, P.
1914. Sind die Leuchtorgane Pilzorgane? Zool. Anz., vol. 45, p. 17.
1926. Tierisches Leuchten und Symbiose. 58 pp. Berlin.
Buck J. 5.
1935. Periodicity and diurnal rhythm in the firefly, Photinus pyralis. Anat.
Rec., vol. 64, suppl., p. 66.
1935 a. Synchronous flashing of fireflies experimentally induced. Science,
vol. 81, p. 339.
1937. Studies on the firefly. I. The effects of light and other agents on
flashing in Photinus pyralis, with special reference to periodicity
and diurnal rhythm. Physiol. Zool., vol. 10, p. 45.
1937 a. Studies on the firefly. II. The signal system and color vision in
Photinus pyralis. Physiol. Zool., vol. 10, p. 412.
1937 b. Spectral composition of the light emitted by Jamaican fireflies.
Anat. Rec., vol. 70, suppl., p. 114.
1937 c. Flashing of fireflies in Jamaica. Nature, vol. 139, p. 801. London.
1938. Synchronous rhythmic flashing of fireflies. Quart. Rev. Biol., vol.
18, p. 301.
CARPENTER, W. B.
1854. Principles of comparative physiology. 770 pp., London.
BIOLOGY OF LIGHT PRODUCTION—MALUF 399

CoBLENTz, W. W.
1912. A physical study of the firefly. Carnegie Inst. Washington Publ.
No. 164.
Cook, O. F.
1900. Camphor secreted by an animal, Polyzonium. Science, vol. 12, p. 516.
CREIGHTON, W. S.
1926. The effect of adrenalin on the luminescence of fireflies. Science,
vol. 63, p. 600.
Dauuaren, U.
1915-16. The production of light by animals. Journ. Franklin Inst., vol.
180, pp. 513, 717; vol. 181, pp. 109, 248, 377, 525, 659, 805.
1917. The production of light by animals. Ibid., vol. 183, p. 323.
DEEGENER, P.

1928. Respirations-organe. Ch. 5, in Shréder’s Handb. d. Entomologie,

vol. 1, 1426 pp.
Dusors, R.

1885. Fonction photogenique des Pyrophores. C. R. Soc. Biol., vol. 37,
p. 559.

1886. Contribution a ]’étude de la production de la lumiére par les étres.
Les Elaterides lumineux. Bull. Soc. Zool. France, Année II, p. 1.

1887 a. Note sur la fonction photogénique chez les Pholades. C. R. Soc.

Biol., vol. 4, p. 564.
1887 b. De la fonction photogénique chez la Pholas dactylus. C. R. Acad.
Sci., vol. 105, p. 690.

1913. Mécanisme intime de la production de la lumiére chez les organismes
vivantes. Ann. Soc. Linn. Lyons, vol. 60, p. 81.

1914. De la place occupée par la biophotogénése dans la série des phénoménes
lumineux. JIbid., vol. 61, p. 247.

1914 a. La vie et la lumiére, Paris, cf. Harvey, 1919.

Emery, C.

1884. Untersuchungen iiber Luciola italica. Zeitschr. Wiss. Zool., vol. 40,
p. 338.

1885. La luce della Luciola italica, osservata col Microscopio. Bull. Soc.
Entom. Ital., vol. 17, p. 351; see also Journ. Roy. Micr. Soe., p. 234,
1886.

1886. La luce negli amori delle Luciole. Bull. Soc. Entom. Ital., vol. 18,
p. 406.

GAZAGNAIRE, J.

1890. La phosphorescence chez les Myriopodes de la famille des Geophilidae.

Mém. Soc. Zool. France, vol. 3, p. 136.
GHIPEL, E.

1915. Beitraige zur Anatomie der Leuchtorgane tropischer Kafer. Zeitschr.

Wiss. Zool., vol. 112, p. 239.
Gortner, R. A.

1911. Studies on melanin. IV. The origin of the pigment and the color
pattern in the elytra of the Colorado potato beetle, (Leptinotarsa
decimlineata Say). Amer. Nat., vol. 45, p. 743.

VON GUERICKE, O.

1654. (See Catalogue of the special loan collection of scientific apparatus at
the South Kensington Museum, 1877, London, 1084 pp.).

1672. Experimenta nova (ut vocantur) Magdeburgica de vacuo spatio.
Amsterdam, 249 pp.
400

Han

ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938

STROM, B.
1928. Vergleichende Anatomie des Nervensystems der wirbellosen Tiere.
628 pp., Berlin.

Harvey, E. N.

1916 a. Studies on bioluminescence. IV. The chemistry of light production
in a Japanese ostracod crustacean, Cypridina hilgendorfit, Miller.
Amer. Journ. Physiol., vol. 42, p. 318.
1916 b. V. The chemistry of light production by the firefly. Ibid., vol. 42,
p. 342.
1916 c. The mechanism of light production in animals. Science, vol. 44,
p. 208.
1916 d. The light-producing substances, photogenin and photophelein, of
luminous animals. Science, vol. 44, p. 652.
1917 a. Studies on bioluminescence. IV. The chemistry of light production
’ in a Japanese ostracod, Cypridina hilgendorfii, Miller. Amer.
Journ. Physiol., vol. 42, p. 318.
1917 b. The chemistry of light-production in luminous organisms. Car-
negie Inst. Washington, Publ. No. 251, pp. 171-234.
1918. Studies on bioluminescence. VII. Reversibility of the photogenic
reaction in Cypridina. Journ. Gen. Physiol., vol. 1, p. 133.
1919. The nature of animal light. 182 pp., Philadelphia.
1919 a. Studies on bioluminescence. X. Carbon dioxide production during
luminescence of Cypridina luciferin. Journ. Gen. Physiol.,
vol. 2, p. 133.
1920. Is the luminescence of Cypridina an oxidation? Amer. Journ. Physiol.,
vol. 51, p. 580.
1921. A fish, with a luminous organ, designed for the growth of luminous
bacteria. Science, vol. 53, p. 314.
1924. Studies on bioluminescence. XVI. What determines the color of the
light of luminous animals? Amer. Journ. Physiol., vol. 70, p. 619.
1924 a. Recent advances in bioluminescence. Physiol. Rev., vol. 4, p. 639.
1925. Luminous fishes of the Banda Sea. Nat. Hist., vol. 25, p. 353.
1926 a. Additional data on the specificity of luciferin and luciferase, together
with a general survey of thisreaction. Amer. Journ. Physiol., vol.
77, p. 584.
1926 b. Oxygen and luminescence, with a description of methods for remov-
ing oxygen from cells and fluids. Biol. Bull., vol. 51, p. 89.
1927 a. On the quanta of light produced and the molecules of oxygen utilized
during Cypridina luminescence. Journ. Gen. Physiol., vol. 10,
p. 875.
1927 b. Bioluminescence. Bull. Nat. Res. Council, vol. 59, p. 50.
1928. Studies on the oxidation of luciferin without luciferase and the mecha-
nism of bioluminescence. Journ. Biol. Chem., vol. 78, p. 369.
1928 a. Stability of luminous substances of luminous animals. Proc. Soc.
Exp. Biol. Med., vol. 26, p. 133.
1931 a. Chemical aspects of the luminescence of deep-sea shrimps. Zoologica,
Sci. Contr. N. Y. Zool. Soe., vol. 12, p. 71.
1931 b. Photocell analysis of the light of the Cuban elaterid beetle, Pyrophorus.
Journ. Gen. Physiol., vol. 15, p. 139.
1931 ce. Cold light. Sci. Monthly, vol. 32, p. 270.
1932. The evolution of bioluminescence and its relation to cell respiration.
Proc. Amer. Philos. Soe., vol. 71, p. 135.
1935. The mechanism and kinetics of bioluminescent reactions. Cold
Spring Harbor Symposia on Quant. Biol., vol. 3, p. 261.

em
BIOLOGY OF LIGHT PRODUCTION—MALUF 401

1935 a. Luciferase, the enzyme concerned in luminescence of living organisms.
Erg. Enzymsforsch., vol. 4, p. 365.
Harvey, E. N., and Dierrick, J. E.
1930. The production of antibodies for Cypridina luciferase and luciferin in
the body of arabbit. Journ. Immunology, vol. 18, p. 65.
Harvey, E. N., and Hatt, R. T.
1929. Will the adult firefly luminesce if its larval organs are entirely removed?
Science, vol. 69, p. 253.
Harvey, E. N., and Korr, I. M.
1938. Luminescence in absence of oxygen in the ctenophore, Mnemiopsis
leidy. Journ. Cell. Comp. Physiol., vol. 12, p. 319.
Harvey, E. N., and Lavin, G. I.
1931. Reduction of oxyluciferin by atomic hydrogen. Science, vol. 74, p. 150.
Harvey, E. N., and Morrison, T. F.
1923. The minimum concentration of oxygen necessary for luminescence by
luminous bacteria. Journ. Gen. Physiol., vol. 6, p. 18.
Harvey, E. N., and Stevens, K. P.
1928. The brightness of the light of the West Indian elaterid. Pyrophorus.
Journ. Gen. Physiol., vol. 12, p. 269.
Herpt, K.
1936. Uber das Leuchten der Collembolen Onychiurus armatus Tbg. und
Achorutes muscorum Templ. Biol. Zentralblatt, vol. 56, p. 100.
HEINEMANN, C.
1886. Zur Anatomie und Physiologie der Leuchtorgane mexikanischer Cucu-
jos (Pyrophorus). Arch. Mikr. Anat., vol. 27, p. 296.
Hyss, vieG,
1922. Radioluminescence and its technical application. Trans. Illum. Eng.
Soc., p. 127.
Hess, W. N.
1921. Tracheation of the light organs of some common Lampyridae. Anat.
Rec., vol. 20, p. 155.
Ives, H. E.
1910. Further studies on the firefly. Physical Rev., vol. 31, p. 637.
Kanpa, S.
1920. Physico-chemical studies on bioluminescence. I. On the luciferin
and luciferase of Cypridina hilgendorfii. Amer. Journ. Physiol.,
vol. 50, p. 544.
1920 a. II. The production of light by Cypridina hilgendorfit is not an oxida-
tion. Ibid., vol. 50, p. 561.
1920 b. III. The production of light by Luciola vitticollis is an oxidation.
Ibid., vol. 53, p. 137.
1921. IV. The physical and chemical nature of the luciferase of Cypridina
hilgendorfit. Ibid., vol. 55, p. 1.
1924. V. The physical and chemical nature of the luciferin of Cypridina
hilgendorfii. Ibid., vol. 68, p. 435.
1930. The chemical nature of Cypridina luciferin. Science, vol. 71, p. 444.
Kastuz, J. H., and McDermort, F. A.
1910. Some observations on the production of light by the firefly. Amer.
Journ. Physiol., vol. 27, p. 122.
Kemp, 8.
1910. Notes on the photophores of decapod Crustacea. Proc. Zool. Soc.
London, p. 639.
DE KERVILLE, H. G.
1890. Les animaux et les végétaux lumineux. 327 pp., Paris.
402 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938

Kocg, A.
1929. Studien an leuchtenden Tieren. I. Das Leuchten der Myriapoden.
Zeits. Morph. Okol. Tiere, vol. 8, p. 241.
von KOLuIKER, A.
1857. Uber das Leuchten der Lampyris. Verhandl. d. Wurzb. Phys.-Med.
Gesellsch. vol. 8, p. 217. English transl. in Quart. Journ. Mier.
Sci., vol. 6, p. 166.
Kuant, P.
1907. Das Leuchten der Lampyriden. Ent. Wochenschr., vol. 24.
LANGLEY, S. P.
1902. Annals Astrophys. Observ., vol. 2, p. 5. (Cf. Harvey, 1919.)
LANGLEY, S. P., and Very, F. W.
1890. On the cheapest form of light. Amer. Journ. Sci., 3rd ser., vol. 40,
p. 97.
Lunp, E. J.
1911. On the structure, physiology and use of the photogenic organs, with
special reference to the Lampyrides. Journ. Exp. Zool., vol. 2,
p. 415.
MAcaIRE, J.
1821. Mémoire sur la phosphorescence des Lampyres. Journ. de Physique,
vol. 93, p. 46.
1822. Ueber die Phosphoreszenz der Leuchtkifer. Bibl. univers. de Genéve,
1821. Gilbert’s Annal., vol. 70, p. 265.
McDermott, F. A.
1912. Observations on the light emission of American Lampyridae. IV.
Canadian Entom. p. 309.
1917. Observations on the light emission of American Lampyridae. V. Ibid,
p. 53.
Mauur, N.S. R.
1938. The basis of the rhythmic flashing of the “firefly.” Ann. Entom. Soc.
Amer., Sept.
MANGOLD, E.
1910-14. Die Produktion von Licht. In Winterstein’s Handb. Vergl.
Physiol., vol. 3, No. 2, pp. 225-392.
Mast, S. O.
1912. Behavior of fireflies (Photinus pyralis?) with special reference to the
problem of orientation. Journ. Animal Behavior, vol. 2, p. 256.
1923. Photic orientation in insects with special reference to the drone fly,
Eristalis tenax and the robber fly, Hrax rubifarbis. Journ. Exp.
Zool. vol. 38 p. 109.
Morss, E. S.
1924. The synchronous flashing of fireflies. Science, vol. 59, p. 163.
Morray, J.
1826. Experimental researches. Glasgow, see pp. 9 and 71; cf. Tiedemann,
1830.
OFSIANIKOF, P.
1863. Ueber das Leuchten der Larven von Lampyris noctiluca. Bull. Acad.
Imper. St. Petersburg, vol. 7, p. 55.
Oxapa, Y. K.
1935. Origin and development of the photogenic organs of lampyrids, with
special reference to those of Luciola cruciata and Pyrocoelia rufe.
Mem. Coll. Sci. Kyoto, vol. 10B, p. 209.
BIOLOGY OF LIGHT PRODUCTION—MALUF 403

OstTEN-SACKEN, Baron.
1861. Die amerikanischen Leuchtkaéfer. Stettiner Entom. Zeitung, vol. 22,
p. 54.
ParR.in, W. A.
1935. How bright is a lightning bug? Scientific American, vol. 153, p. 15.
PasTEurR, L.
1864. Sur la lumiére phosphorescente des Cucujos. C. R. Acad. Sci., vol. 59,
p. 509.
Prr«ins, M.
1931. Light of glowworms. Nature, vol. 128, p. 903. London.
Peters, A. W.
1841. Ueber das Leuchten der Lampyris ttalica. Arch. Anat. u. Physiol. u.
Vergl. Anat. p. 229.
PIERANTONI, U.
1914. La luce degle insetti luminosi e la simbiosa ereditaria. Rendic. Acad.
Sci. di Napoli, fase. 1 to 4.
1918. Les microorganismes physiologiques et la luminéscence des animaux.
Scientia, vol. 23, p. 43.
Po.iMantr, O.
1911. Ueber das Leuchten von Pyrosoma elegans Les. Zeitschr. Biol., vol.
55, p. 505.
PRAtTJE, A.
1923. Das Leuchten der Organismen, eine Ubersicht iiber die neuere Literatur.
Erg. Physiol., vol. 21, p. 1.
Rampas, L. A., and VENKITESHWARAN, L. P.
1931. The spectrum of a glowworm (Lampyridae). Note. Nature, vol. 128,
p. 726. London.
ScHierp, W.
1914. Uber die Frage nach der Beteiligung des Nervensystems beim Farben-
wechsel von Dizippus. Zool. Jahrb. Allg. Zool., vol. 35, p. 225.
1920. Uber den Einflusz des Lichtes auf die Farbung von Dizippus und die
Frage der Erblichkeit des erworbenen Farbkleides. Zool. Anz.,
vol. 52, p. 151.
Scuuttze, M.
1865. Zur Kenntnis der Leuchtorgane von Lampyris splendidula. Arch.
Mikr. Anat., vol. 1, p. 124.
SHapiro, H.
1934. The light intensity of luminous bacteria as a function of oxygen pres-
sure. Journ. Cell. Comp. Physiol., vol. 4, p. 313.
SNELL, P. A. ;
1931. The neuro-muscular mechanism controlling flashing in the lampyrid
fireflies. Science, vol. 73, p. 372.
1932. The control of luminescence in the male firefly, Photuris pennsylvanica,
with special reference to the effect of oxygen on flashing. Journ.
Cell. Comp. Physiol., vol. 1, p. 37.
SPALLANZANI, L.
1794. Memoria sopra le Meduse fosforiche. Mem. Soc. Ital. Verona, vol. 7,
p. 271.
1796. Chimico essame degli esperimenti del Sign. Goettling sopra la luce
del fosforo. Modena, p. 119, cf. Tiedemann, 1830.
SumMneER, J. B.
1933. The chemical nature of enzymes. Journ. Nutrition, vol. 6, p. 103.
1935. Enzymes. Ann. Rev. Biochem., vol. 4, p. 37.
114728—-39—_27
404. ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938

Sumner, J. B., and Douncz, A. L.
1937. Crystalline catalase. Science, vol. 85, p. 366.
TEMPLER, J.
1671. Some observations concerning glowworms. Phil. Trans. Roy. Soc.,
vol. 1, p. 603.
TIEDEMANN, F.
1830. A systematic treatise on comparative physiology introductory to the
physiology of man. Engl. transl. by J. M. Gully and J. H. Lane in
1834, vol. 1, 431 pp. London.,
Tonner, F.
1933. Ein Beitrag zur Anatomie und Physiologie des peripheren Nerven-
systems von Astacus fluviatilis. Zool. Jahrb., allg., vol. 53, p. 101.
TOWNSHEND, A. B.
1904. The histology of the light organs of Photinus marginellus. Amer. Nat.,
vol. 38, p. 127.
WALTER, A.
1909. Das Leuchten einer terrestrischen Oligochaeten. Trav. Soc. Nat. St.
Petersburg, C. R. Séances, vol. 40, p. 136.
Watassé, 8.
1895. Physical basis of animal phosphorescence. Biol. Lectures, Woods Hole.
WE ts, J. H.
1938. Diurnal rhythms. Quart. Rev. Biol., vol. 13, p. 123.
WHEELER, W. M., and WI.uiams, F. X.
1915. The luminous organ of the New Zealand glowworm. Psyche, vol. 22,
p. 36.
von WIELOWIESEI, H. R.
1882. Zur Kenntniss der Leuchtorgane von Lampyriden. Zeitschr. Wiss.
Zool., vol. 37, p. 354.
1889. Beitrige zur Kenntniss der Leuchtorgane der Insekten. Zool. Anz.,
vol. 12, p. 594.
WIGGLESworTH, V. B.
1929. A theory of tracheal respiration in insects. Nature, vol. 124, p. 986.
London.
1930. A theory of tracheal respiration in insects. Proc. Roy. Soc. London,
vol. 106B, p. 229.
1931. The respiration of insects. Biol. Rev., vol. 6, p. 181.
1932. The extent of air in the tracheoles of some terrestrial insects. Proc.
Roy. Soc. London, vol. 109B, p. 354.
WILLIAMs, F.. X.
1916-17. Photogenic organs and embryology of lampyrids. Journ. Morph.,
vol. 28, p. 145.
Youna, C. A.
1870. Spectrum of the firefly. Amer. Nat., vol. 3, p. 615.
THE BLACK WIDOW SPIDER!

By Frep E. D’Amour, Francses E. Becker, and WALKER VAN RIPER
Research Laboratories, University of Denver

[With five plates]
INTRODUCTION

This study was undertaken somewhat in the nature of a summer
diversion. Our interest in the black widow spider was first aroused
by the work of Blair (1934) which received considerable publicity
during the winter and spring of 1934. When it was found that these
spiders were fairly numerous in and around Denver, and a search of
the literature indicated that many points concerning their life history
and the properties of their venom were not definitely established, a
modest research program devoted to their study seemed to promise
considerable enjoyment, even though the results might not have an
exceedingly great scientific value. Since we could hardly hope to
make a specialized study in any one particular field, we decided to
explore all of them a little. In consequence, this paper gives findings
covering various aspects of the problem. In the first part the appear-
ance of the spider is described, and observations concerning its natural
history recorded. In the second, studies concerning the toxicity of
the venom, its chemistry, immunology, toxicology, and pathology
are reported. Most of the experiments herein reported were carried
out during the summer of 1934. However, delay in publication per-
mits inclusion of certain observations and experiments conducted
during 1935. The total number of spiders collected has been about
6,500, and some 500 rats have been used.

The literature up to 1932 has been adequately reviewed by Bogen
(1932); reference to other important work will be made in the appro-
priate place.

NATURAL HISTORY

Spiders have a life that is vivid and intense, though so unobtrusive
that we usually do not see them, or at most pay little attention to
them. Specialists find them fascinating as a group because of their
anatomical peculiarities, their production of silk, and their habits of

1 Reprinted by permission, with some omissions, from The Quarterly Review of Biology, vol. 11, No. 2,
June 1936.
405
406 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938

preparing snares for prey. Laymen are but little interested in
spiders because their apparent economic value is negligible. The
average person is likely to have an active dislike, if any feeling at all,
for spiders. This dislike is not based on justifiable fear. The effect
of the bite of a spider has long been a question. The Tarantula, a
small wolf spider of southern Europe, figured in early legends because
of the music and extravagant bacchic display designed to incite the
patient to the violent dancing which was thought to be the sole cure
for its bite.

The only other type of spider that has gained a wide and infamous
reputation is Latrodectus, a genus of the family Theridiidae. Stories
of the deadly nature of the bites of these spiders are current among
the peoples of all the regions of the world in which they occur. It is
difficult to believe that there is no basis in fact for the similar beliefs
that have grown up in such widely separated regions as Europe,
America, Madagascar, New Zealand, Algeria, and the West Indies.
Arachnologists of the old school were inclined to believe that the
stories were based on mistaken evidence. Even today some main-
tain that the reports of the venomous qualities are greatly exaggerated.
In the case of Latrodectus, incomplete observation gives conflicting
evidence. There are authentic reports of bites of this genus of spider
being followed by no harmful results. There are equally authentic
reports of fatalities, or of more or less serious and disagreeable symp-
toms, followed by recovery.

The divergence of opinion in regard to the effect of the bite has a
simple and reasonable explanation. All spiders have poison glands,
which open near the tips of the fangs of the chelicerae. The contents
of the poison sac are expelled by muscular action, undoubtedly volun-
tary on the part of the spider. A ‘‘bite,” therefore, does not neces-
sarily imply the injection of the venom, but might be entirely harm-
less. The injection of varying amounts of venom would explain the
gradations in the seriousness of the consequences. Nothing but
carefully controlled laboratory experiments can give conclusive
evidence in a question of this sort.

The fact that the spider has many common names indicates an
enforced recognition. The natives of Madagascar know their two
species as ‘‘Vancoho”’ and “‘Mena-vedi.’”’ The New Zealand species is
the ‘‘Katipo.” Latrodectus 13-guttatus of southern Europe is known
as the “Malmignatte.’”’ The common American species, Latrodecius
mactans, was the ‘‘Pokomoo”’ of the Indians, who knew the potency
of its venom for making poisoned arrows. Other common names for
this spider are the ‘“‘Black Widow,” the ‘‘Hourglass,”’ or ‘“Shoebutton”’
spider.

The Standard Dictionary says that the derivation of Latrodectus is
apparently from two Greek words meaning ‘‘pay received.” Jaeger
BLACK WIDOW SPIDER—D’AMOUR ET AL. 407

(Dictionary of Latin Combining Forms Used in Zoological Names)
derives it from latro, Greek, a robber; and dect(o), Greek, to bite, biting,
a biter; hence, Latrodectus, a robber-biter. Mactans is a Latin word
meaning “murderous.”

DISTRIBUTION

The most recent review of the distribution of the black widow which
has come to our attention is that of Burt (1935). This study, com-
bined with that of Bogen, leaves only the following States from
which the black widow has not been reported: Oregon, Minnesota,
Iowa, Missouri, Wisconsin, Illinois, and Vermont. It is almost cer-
tainly present in Oregon; in fact, very probably it will be found in
every State of the Union. According to Phillip (1935), Canadian
records are available for the Provinces of Alberta, British Columbia,
Manitoba, and Ontario, and southward its range in the mainland ex-
tends at least to Peru. The species has also been reported from
the West Indies.

HABITAT

The web of the black widow is an irregular structure, made of coarse,
elastic, tough silk. There is usually a central nest or pocket about the
size of one’s finger to which the spider retreats when she is frightened,
and to which she carries many of her meals. The web is evidently
being constantly renewed and repaired, as the silk in an abandoned
web is dull in appearance, brittle, and weak, and easily distinguished
from the silk in an occupied web. The structure may be of no greater
extent than the mouth of a gopher hole, or as much as a yard each
way on the surface of a bank, probably being enlarged with the con-
stant renovation. Once the widow has established her web, she is
not likely to be found outside of it unless by accident or intent some
superior force drives her out. When this happens, she shows her dis-
comfort and fear by timid and awkward actions. With the onset of
cold weather, however, many reports have reached us of spiders
crawling about on walls and floors of dwellings. Apparently the cold
has driven them inside and they are hunting a more favorable winter
residence.

The location of the web seems to be largely a matter of chance,
though in our locality some favorite sites are permanent holes or
fissures in a bank, such as the excavations made by swallows in a clay
bank; in brick, rock, or trash piles; in sheds, garages, outbuildings, and
basements; under loose rocks and in eroded holes in granite; in tile
roofs, etc. Webs and spiders have been found in abandoned birds’
nests in the pine trees of the foothills. Recently we found the whole
south side of a new country house in the suburbs of Denver harboring
young widows of this season in every possible retreat behind shutters,
408 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938

rain spouts, etc. Webs have been observed in the prickly pear cactus,
where they spread about in the branches of the plant, with the central
nests in the trash on the ground. In the summer of 1934, perhaps
owing to the dryness, these spiders seem to have invaded the residential
districts in unusually large numbers, and one of us actually found a
mature black widow ensconced behind some books in the library.
Reports have come to us of their being found commonly in box cars
and a communication from fruit growers on the western slope of the
Colorado Rockies stated that grapes were going to waste because
pickers refused to work among the spider-infested vines. We have
seen the black widow or had reports of her in all parts of Colorado.
One was collected at an altitude of 8,000 feet near Buffalo Park, the
record altitude so far as our personal] experience goes, and we collected
specimens both in 1934 and 1935 at an altitude of about 7,300 feet in
Estes Park. Recently we have received from a trustworthy source a
record of one taken near the village of Estes Park at an altitude of
8,200 feet.

It is evident from the above statements that the spider recognizes
few geographic barriers except extreme cold and is also easily satisfied
with her local surroundings. At the same time, we have found
certain particular locations very densely populated and it would
appear that these are the most favorable in insuring survival. As
stated, we have collected approximately 6,500 spiders. By far the
greatest number of these were captured in the foothills country between
Denver and Colorado Springs. The hillsides are of disintegrating
limestone, forming fissures and clefts in the cliff faces, and with many
boulders on the gentler slopes. On the south slopes of these hills and
canyons, nearly every cleft and hole in the cliff has a web across its
mouth, nearly every boulder a web along its lower margin. The insect
life is not particularly abundant, but in such regions as this one can
collect several hundred spiders within a few hours. It should be
noted, however, that the size of the spider seems to be in direct
proportion to the size of the rock, and to collect large specimens one
must have the fortitude to turn over large rocks

The web serves as a snare for the prey on which the spider feeds—
flies, beetles, grasshoppers, and the other insects that blunder into it.
We have even observed a small mouse entangled and several times
have seen the large western cicada, which is nearly as big as a mouse, a
victim. Usually whatever touches the web is securely caught almost
at the first contact, and its struggles only tie it the more tightly.
Large grasshoppers, however, can kick themselves free and require
prompt and energetic measures on the part of the spider. She
belongs to the family of ‘“comb-footed”’ spiders which are distinguished
by the presence on the tarsus of the fourth pair of legs of a distinct
comb, consisting of a row of strong, curved, and toothed setae. The
BLACK WIDOW SPIDER—D’AMOUR ET AL. 409

comb is used for flinging silk, in an almost liquid state, over the en-
tangled prey. It is interesting to see the technique employed in
subduing one of the larger grasshoppers, an animal considerably
bigger and many times stronger than the spider. What she does is to
hog-tie the powerful jumping legs of the victim and after submission is

gained in this way she takes her time about administering the fatal bite.

HIBERNATION

In the vicinity of Denver we have been able to collect specimens
in every month of the year. The degree of activity shown by spiders
collected in the winter months appears to depend on the temperature;
if it is warm, individuals captured behave about as they do in summer;
if it is cold, they are more or less torpid. They have been found in
winter in all the common places, and we have never observed the
slightest evidence of special preparation against the cold—nothing in
the way of additional web or better protection for the nest. Many
of those found under rocks and in trash heaps appear to have made
no webs of any kind. In December last year, after a heavy snow
with cold nights, we picked up a specimen from the bottom of a pile
of tumbleweeds, about as wet and cold a spot as one could imagine.
Later, in an unheated room, where half a dozen recently collected
spiders were exposed to a temperature of 10° below zero in a sudden
cold snap, all were frozen.

METHODS OF COLLECTING

Latrodectus is ready both by day and by night for any passing
victim and at night is easily spotted with a flashlight. An easy method
of collecting from holes in banks and similar places is to tie a beetle
to a string 18 inches or so long with the other end of the string attached
to a stick of handy size. When the beetle is dropped into a web, if
the spider is hungry, she will at once rush out to capture the struggling
insect. Web and spider may then be struck down and the spider
transferred by means of forceps to the collecting bottle. Sometimes
one may pull out web and egg sacs so that they dangle just outside
the hole. After some time the female may frequently be caught out-
side in the act of rescuing her eggs and repairing the damage to the
web. During the capture of the widow she almost always exhibits
the cataleptic reflex, “playing possum,’ a protective habit that is
common to almost all kinds of spiders, and when picked up by a leg
with the forceps she is likely to cast the leg, another protective device
that is familiar to spider observers everywhere.
410 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938

TEMPERAMENT

Dining on the crumbs from the widow’s table is a tiny, long-legged
commensal, Psilochorus utahensis (Chamberlin), identified for us by
Dr. W. J. Gertsch of the American Museum of Natural History, which
is commonly found in black widow webs in this locality, often half a
dozen or so, males and females, to a web, the females carrying their eggs
in the chelicerae. With this exception the widow is generally found
alone, since her fierce and predaceous habits cause her to kill any insect
invader or be killed. The “killer instinct’’ is apparent in the follow-
ing description of a typical conflict observed in a web located in a
well-lighted hole, about eye level, in a brickyard bank. The occupant
was a large female with two egg sacs in the upper part of the web.
She was hanging, back down, on one of the sacs—a characteristic
position. A small mirror was used to shine light into the hole so that
everything might be clearly seen. The observer placed another widow,
previously collected, into the outer part of the web. There was no
movement for a moment; then the alien oriented herself and moved
a short distance into the web. The occupant countered by leaving
the egg sac and advancing a spider’s length toward the interloper.
Both advanced and stopped alternately until they approached each
other in the center of the web. All their movements were deliberate
and cautious. There was a moment of absolute stillness, then, with
a motion too quick for the eye, the occupant threw a shower of thick,
sticky silk, which spurted from the spinnerets at the tip of the abdomen
and was flung over the invader by a skillful manipulation of the hind
legs. The victim was rapidly rolled over and over in a net until it
was completely covered like a mummy. It was only then, when the
risk was past and all secure, that the poison bite was administered.

Contests staged in the laboratory established the fact that a bite
upon another spider causes paralysis immediately, but does not
necessarily produce death. Victims removed from the web after they
were helpless and all prepared for the victor to begin feeding were
found to recover their powers of motion after several hours, and to be
apparently normal the next day. In contrast to the fierce nature of
the spider toward others of her kind is the extreme timidity which
she exhibits toward unnatural disturbances of her web, such as might
be caused by a collector. At the first molestation of the web, she
retreats with incredible speed into the central nest, and does not
venture out again for hours. We have never seen the slightest at-
tempt at defense, to say nothing of aggression, on her part under such
circumstances.

MEANS OF DISPERSAL

Spiders show two definite tropisms. When they are young they are
negatively geotropic, tending to climb upward; at all stages they are
BLACK WIDOW SPIDER—D’AMOUR ET AL. 411

negatively heliotropic, tending to move away from the light. The
geotropism of the young provides a means of dispersal. Once the
maiden flight has been effected and dispersal accomplished, the spiders
no longer exhibit the tropism. The following observations on the
dispersal of the spiderlings were made by us.

A glass tube about 1% inches in diameter and 3 feet long, enclosing
a piece of bamboo of the same length wound with raffia, was closed
with cloth at both ends after a newly made egg sac had been placed
inside on the bottom cloth. The whole contrivance was then set
upright in a retort stand. The bamboo inside the glass tube would
furnish the spiderlings something to climb on should they have the
instinct to do so after emergence from the sac. About 4 weeks after
the spinning of the sac, there were two little swarms of 50 or 60
spiderlings each at the base of the tube near the sac. During the day
they all climbed their artificial tree and swarmed at the top of the
tube. The next morning the apparatus was carried out into the
country, the top cover removed, and the length of the artificial tree
increased by a 3-foot stick. Immediately about 15 of the little spiders
detached themselves from the swarm and intently climbed to the very
tip of the new stick. The sun was shining and a little breeze blowing
from the south. Suddenly a tiny mite was snapping about in space
18 inches or 2 feet from the stick. It was a spiderling waving in the
breeze at the end of a gossamer drag-line which it had spun as it was
blown from its moorings. Then the spider was observed to be working
its way back along the line; not drawing in the line but leaving it out,
possibly doubling it. The adventurer reached his dock again, leaving
the silken thread flapping in the breeze. Suddenly the line broke at
its base, or was cut by the spiderling behind him, and he sailed away
into space too rapidly for the eye to follow the course very far. This
happened again and again, till of the original 15 adventurers only 2 or
3 remained. This explains the disappearance of the young spiders
from the maternal web so soon after emergence, and explains also their
being found later in life in curious places to which chance blew them
on their initial flight.

When the young spider ends its voyage we must imagine that it
seeks the first hole or crack available as shelter. Here it spins a
web not unlike that of the mother, but on a small scale, catches its
prey in the same way, and if circumstances are propitious, sets up a
permanent establishment.

ENEMIES

In spite of the fact that the poison of the widow is deadly to all
small animals, she has a number of natural enemies. We have ob-
served the vireo feeding the spider to her nestlings, and pigeons and
chickens may eat it with impunity, the latter with apparent relish.
412 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938

Field mice and related mammals probably take the spider when they
find her, since we have never observed one under a rock that shelters
rodents. Possibly some of the hunting spiders can overcome the
widow, although in laboratory observations she has always prevailed
over any other spider put in with her.

In all the thousands of spiders that we have handled we have never
noticed a single case of a disease or parasite that appeared to be
destructive of the mature spider. In a small percentage of cases
(3 out of 207 in one series) we have found the egg sacs parasitized
by a small ichneumon which the late Professor Crosby, of Cornell,
identified for us as Gelis sp., relatives of which are widely known as
parasites of spider cocoons. The flies oviposit on or in the egg sac,
the larvae consume the contents of the sac, pupate inside the sac,
and the flies emerge. We have also found, in the debris of the spider’s
web, in the empty egg sacs and in various other similar places, the
active and omniverous larvae of one of the Dermestid beetles, the
common museum pests. Whether these grubs are only scavengers
cleaning up the waste from the spider’s table, or are also capable of
destroying the living eggs, we have not been able to determine as
yet. But we suspect that both are true.

There can be no question, however, but that the blue mud dauber
(Chalybion cyaneum Klug) is a predator on the black widow. We
have collected many mud dauber nests and have frequently found
immature black widows stored as food for the larvae. Recently
Irving and Hinman (1935) have published similar findings. In
Lamar, Colo., where black widows have been extremely prevalent the
past 2 years, residents have told us that the mud daubers seem un-
usually scarce. It may be that in nature the mud dauber is one of
the chief factors in holding the black widow in check.

EXPERIMENTAL
STUDIES ON TOXICITY

The first problem was to study the toxicity of the venom and to
develop a reliable means of assay. Most experimental studies pre-
viously reported fall under two heads as far as the source of the
material used is concerned. Some workers have proceeded by placing
the spider upon a shaved area of the animal used and pinching it with
forceps until it bit. Others have used the macerated heads of the
spiders as their experimental material. Early in our work we tried
both methods, but soon learned that they were unreliable and that
consistent results could not be obtained. If one employs the first
technic, he encounters several factors which are difficult or impossible
to control. The actual amount of venom introduced will obviously
be dependent upon the size of the spider, its past history—that is,
BLACK WIDOW SPIDER—D’AMOUR ET AL. 413

how long since it last made use of its poison apparatus and the speed
of regeneration of the poison—and upon the degree of anger aroused
by the pinching. As will be shown later, even under conditions
which one might suppose would excite the greatest degree of anger—
that is, after victory in mortal combat with another spider—the
glands still contain a considerable amount of venom. It seems likely
that the glands are under some degree of volitional control and the
amount ejected will depend upon the degree of irritation of the spider.
This is supported by the experience of Baerg (1922), who speaks of
spiders which bit readily and caused severe symptoms while others
attacked only under extreme provocation.

As for the second method, that of using macerated heads as a source
of material, if a sufficiently large number of spiders is used, the size
and past history factors are averaged and, of course, the question of
degree of irritation does not enter. However, anyone who has ever
dissected out the venom glands will have noted their toughness and
elasticity. Macerating the heads, even though the operation is car-
ried out thoroughly, will certainly fail to crush all glands. An un-
known number will escape maceration and will then be discarded with
the debris. The following tables illustrate the above points. Table
1 gives the results of actual biting experiments. In these trials spiders

TABLE 1
Weight of rat Spider Results

264) orn ts 5 2 argoee ee Nosymptoms.

Ze gmEseee eta, dose ee Comatose all afternoon and night, breathing shallow, hind legs
paralyzed. Recovered.

S08 gntee +. see Smalleser ss. oe Symptoms much like above, in addition, foreleg paralyzed, large
swollen area at site of bite. Recovered.

6Sipemi ees IANVeTage:.222- oes Severe paralysis in all legs, Could not use legs, could be slid across
table. Breathing became difficult, died after 48 hours.

UO PIMA o oe soos SEL Gols 2s eae Nosymptoms.

SO gine 2 eee ae dose ter ae Slight paralysis, recovered.

were used which had been kept in the laboratory 3 days and had not
been fed during that period. These were placed upon shaved areas
of the rat’s abdomen and excited to bite by being pinched with forceps.
The results are seen to be very inconsistent.

In table 2 the results of two experiments are shown in which
macerated heads were used, 40 heads being used in each batch. The
wide variation in effect no doubt indicates failure to crush and extract
all glands.

Comparison of these results with the toxicity curve for venom ob-
tained later indicates that even in the more active preparation a large
number of glands must have escaped extraction.
414 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938

TABLE 2
Number of
Batch rats in- Amount injected not
jected
1b Reece (5 SES Re eee 10)| Haunivalentiot 2 spiders: 2... 2.2.42 sees 2 70
[es Ree DOF oo ee 10:lsBhanivalentiopl spiders: =. - 22022 Bete oe Se cee eo oee 10
Pha ee Se Ree oe 10°| Equivalentief 2 spiders. W. 2222-22 22.25 ee bees a Sas e 0
VRE et oa eo See 10; }ahquivalentof-Lispider. | 222.22 .-4o22 22 ease ce eee es ane 0

In view of the inconsistent results shown above we adopted the
following procedure as a routine method in the preparation of all
venom used in the succeeding experiments. No fewer than 20 spiders,
in some cases as many as 80 spiders, were used in the preparation of
each batch of material, and in this way individual differences were

averaged. The spiders were

POD TGS ECU ea eae placed under light chloro-
form anesthesia, the abdo-
100% men clipped off and the

cephalothorax and legs im-
bedded in molten paraffin

15% ; :
on a microscope slide.
Solidification of the paraffin
sie held the spider in a firm

mounting. Under the dis-
secting microscope the skin
254 of the head above the eyes
was clipped off; the venom
glands were then clearly

Spider ati ie Bn visible and could be re-
Equi vaients} moved with fine forceps.
say .016 .032 .064 .096 The glands were then

placed in physiological salt
solution and carefully pulled
apart and thoroughly macerated. The glandular debris was trans-
ferred to fresh saline, again macerated and washed and discarded.
The washings were added to the original solution.

Young rats, 50 to 60 grams in weight, were chosen as test animals,
first, because of their availability in this laboratory; and second,
because preliminary experiments showed that they were quite suscep-
tible. A relatively small amount of venom would cause death and
an adequate amount would produce a chain of symptoms which was
a very definite and constant one.

The toxicity curve-—The work of Trevan (1927) on biologic assays
in general and the work of Coward and Burn (1927) and ourselves
(1930) on the assay of estrin preparations has clearly indicated the
necessity of using large numbers of animals in the assay of biologic

FIGURE 1.
BLACK WIDOW SPIDER—D'AMOUR ET AL, 415

preparations in order to overcome the individual variation which
exists between animals of the same species, weight, and age. In
order to establish the toxicity of spider venom we therefore injected
varying amounts into groups of 10 rats per dose. Figure 1 shows the
results obtained, with the amount of venom indicated both in frac-
tional parts per spider and in absolute weight.

As will be noted, the average lethal dose—that is, the amount of
venom which will kill 50 percent of the rats—is one-fourth the venom
contained in the glands of one spider, or 0.032 mg. This is the amount
meant when the term “average lethal dose” or ‘‘equivalent of one-
fourth spider’ is used in describing subsequent experiments.

TABLE 3
Type of injection Nees Amount injected Fercont M _oae

Subcutaneous 7 121222 be) serie 5 | Equivalent of 14 spider__________ 0

BD) Oe eee Lol Pee ee ee 5 | Equivalent of }4 spider_-________ 60 | 36 hours.

[gts Saree AEs Se ee 5 | Equivalent of 1 spider___________ 100 | 24 hours.
Intraperitoneal: =) 22.0. ee! 10 | Equivalent of 4 spider_________- 50 | 12 hours.

10/ hee 88 etal a Cees Bie oo ey 10 | Equivalent of }4 spider_-________ 90 | 8 hours.

De tee es ee 10 | Equivalent of 1 spider_-________- 100 | 8 hours.

Mode of injection.—In obtaining the above toxicity curve, as well as
in practically all of the later work, intraperitoneal injections were
given. A preliminary study, the results of which are shown below,
indicated this type of injection to be preferable, inasmuch as the
amount of venom necessary to cause death was somewhat less and
also the length of time before death occurred was shorter when intra-
peritoneal injections were given. As we did not know in advance
how plentiful the spiders would be, we naturally made use of the
method which would require the least expenditure of venom, and
having used this method in obtaining the toxicity curve continued
with it in further experiments so that the results would be comparable.

Weight of rats —The weight of the rat is an important factor in the
amount of venom necessary to obtain a required result. For reasons
given, we used immature rats weighing between 50 and 60 grams.
Litters in prospect promised an adequate supply of rats of this size
throughout the summer months. No extensive experiment was
carried out to discover the ratio of venom to body weight; however,
table 4 gives the data on the few trials which were made.

Type of spider —The spiders used throughout in the work reported
elsewhere in this paper were mature females, as indicated by the
absence of any markings on the dorsal surface. (See plates.) How-
ever, iti seemed ‘desirable to investigate the toxicity of immature
femalesiand of males as well. For this purpose glands from both groups
were obtained in the usual way and injected. The results are given
in table 5.
416 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938

TABLE 4
Number : * Percent
arrats Weight Amount injected killed
10 bs ens FAUT) (3 1 eee es SE Sa ee e Equivalent of 44 spider___..._......___-_-- 90
ARSE Ae SEE 100=150 prt ose Se eee Equivalentof spider. = 22-22-2222 ee 50
1 a ea es 200-250igm == ee. Sa eee ees Haquivalentiofa spider] eS 33
£ ete re al ae SS 200-250 em: =. = see eee Equivalent of 2 spiders-2-_--2_.=- 252222. 100

These results indicate that the difference in toxicity is qualitative
as well as quantitative.

Toxicity of baby spiders —The eggs of the black widow spider hatch
within the egg sac, and there the spiderlings undergo their first molt.
It seemed interesting to compare the toxicity of the baby spiders with
the eggs from which they came, therefore spiders 7 to 10 days after
their emergence from the egg sac were studied, as it was thought that
much of the material from the egg would by that time have been
utilized. Since it was impossible to dissect out the glands, the spiders
were macerated in saline, the debris filtered off, washed in fresh saline
and the washings added. Undoubtedly many of the venom glands
would not be crushed in this process and the toxicity indicated in
table 6 resides in the tissue fluids of the spiders and possibly in
unabsorbed egg material.

TABLE 5
Number
Type of spider urns Amount injected Results
Immature females] —--—=—— == 3 | Equivalent of %4 spider_____- No symptoms.

ID (epee tS eS A TER ARE 3 | Equivalent of 44 spider-__-_-- Do.

DO Se aa et ee 2 3 | Equivalent of 1 spider______- Do.

1D aetentel ape ES nae ay ep pS 2 | Equivalent of 144 spider_____ Do.

1D fe SO eS Se eee 3 | Equivalent of 3 spiders_____- Sick, but recovered.

Dp weee en ee eer ese 2 | Equivalent of 6 spiders___--- Very sick, recovered.
Mature males: .2-- 829 202s Se 1 | Equivalent of 12 spiders____- Practically no symptoms.
Mature females*22--- = 22ers 10 | Equivalent of 4 spider_____- 50 percent killed.

Average length of venom glands: Mm

Attra erniAles: eae 5. ee ee Se a ren ee 8 eee eee 1.75
TmMmature fem Ales 22 ose eR ee ee Se a ee eee 75
Matiresmalesien: | 5-6: 9 re ae 2 a es eee se eS ee 75
TABLE 6
Number of rats Amount injected Results

eee ss ee Se Equivalent of lispider-- =~ ----2--------=-— Slight paralysis, recovered.

Bae oo oe alte SAR iy ee Equivalent of 244 spiders__._._..------------ Do.

RES <n ee Hquivalentiohs Spiders) -s2-ccsees- nase oe Severe paralysis, recovered.

Dale See 2 Sars Equivalent of 10 spiders__._._..--.----------- 1 died, other very sick, recovered.

Degree of exhaustion following biting—As previously mentioned,
other workers have studied the toxic effects of the venom by causing
spiders to bite their victims. Among others, Baerg (1922) describes

eee i
BLACK WIDOW SPIDER—D’AMOUR ET AL. ALT

experiments done upon rats in which the first bite resulted in severe
symptoms, a subsequent bite in less severe symptoms, and the third
in no symptoms whatever, from which he concludes that immuniza-
tion had occurred. As will be shown later, immunization develops
much more slowly than these results would lead one to believe. In
experiments done upon himself, Baerg obtained almost opposite re-
sults, the first bite causing only local pain, whereas the second was
followed by a very serious and painful chain of symptoms.

We tested the question of the degree of exhaustion of venom in
biting by placing the spiders under conditions where one would expect
them to bite their hardest and to inject the maximum amount of
venom. These spiders are notoriously cannibalistic. It is a well-
known fact and one which we have observed repeatedly, that when
two mature females, especially if one is attending an egg sac, are
placed in one container, they will fight furiously until one or the other
has been bitten and killed. We placed spiders together under these
conditions; in the first experiment the victor of one match was matched
with another victor; in the second, spiders were used which had only
bitten once. The results are shown in table 7.

TABLE 7
vue of Amount injected Results
‘xperunent jeans cele rede raes 1 | Equivalent of 1 spider____...._______-- Died.
See ee ee 2 | Equivalent of }4 spider__.___._______...-| Sick; recovered.
Experiment Dips shia «whan Cots 1 | Equivalent of lspider.. 222222222222 - Died.
NR at ser nied Se BB 2 | Equivalent of }4 spider____..___...__..._.| Sick; recovered.
TABLE 8
Mg
Drvyawelcht ore landsilOm: 20 \SPIGers a es see ee ee ee ee 4.0
IDTV; WEIN tOn GE br Isaac = eee ee A ae Pe i ae Ser ee a On. 2 os Pec ey ae 1.48
IDTVAWOISHL OfiyenOmiee= soa men ae Oe lel eg Eee ee ee eee 2. 52
Drysweightioisvenom per spider. 5 oe Se ee: BE eR i a ee ee . 126
POT VAW CIEE DON Atl i Cea eee ee ee ee ee ee ee . 032

The spiders in experiment 1 had bitten others twice within a half-
hour before being killed, those in experiment 2 had bitten others once
within a half-hour before being killed. These results show that the
glands still contain a considerable amount of venom—at least one-
fourth the total amount—even after the spider has used them twice
within the previous half-hour. It should also be stated that where
the spider was biting for the second time, the victim usually recovered.
No experiments were carried out to determine the length of time
necessary for regeneration of venom.

Potency of venom in terms of weight—-The poison glands were re-
moved from 20 spiders and dried in air for 12 hours. They were
then weighed. Following thorough maceration in distilled water,
418 |= ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938

the glandular debris was dried and weighed. ‘The difference between
the two weights is taken to represent the dry weight of the venom.
This is not entirely correct, since unavoidably some glandular ele-
ments were lost in maceration. The figure obtained errs, therefore,
on the side of assigning a somewhat lower potency to the venom
than is actually the case. Table 8 shows the results.

These results indicate that on the basis of weight the venom of the
black widow is extremely potent. In man, the spider bite results fatally
in about 5 percent of all cases (Bogen, 1932). The rattlesnake is said
to kill in from 15 to 25 percent; the actual amount of venom intro-
duced is, however, much greater in the case of the snake. Experi-
mentally, Calmette found that 0.2 mg of cobra vemon will kill a guinea
pig, and Noguchi states that 5 mg of rattlesnake venom will kill a
350-gram guinea pig in 24 hours. The following comparison of the
potency of black widow with rattlesnake venom was made. Two
specimens of the common prairie rattlesnake (Crotalus albicans, Say)
were collected, one a male 3 feet long with eight rattles and the other
a female 2% feet long with six rattles. The venom was obtained by
pressing upon the glands, then dissecting them out and washing
with distilled water and evaporating to dryness. Thirty-two mg of
dried venom were obtained from the large snake and 20 mg from the
small. The venoms were pooled and assayed. The results are given
in table 8a.

As 0.064 mg of spider venom killed 90 percent of injected rats, it
appears to be about 15 times as potent on a dry-weight basis.

TABLE 8a

Number Amount Percent

of rats injected killed
Mg
10 0.75 0
10 1.0
10 1.5 100
TOXICOLOGY

Symptomatology.—The effect of the black widow spider venom upon
the organism has been variously described by different investigators.
In the human, Bogen (1932) has studied a considerable series of cases
and finds that the chain of symptoms is a remarkably constant one.
The outstanding features in the sequence of events are as follows:
The bite itself is not painful, being comparable to a sharp pin prick;
a dull numbing pain ascends the extremity bitten, and then localizes
itself in the muscles of the chest, back, and abdomen. This pain is
excruciating in character. The abdominal wall is boardlike in its
BLACK WIDOW SPIDER—D’AMOUR ET AL. 419

rigidity; except for the absence of local tenderness and the involve-
ment of other muscle groups, the pain resembles that experienced in
the case of a ruptured appendix or perforated peptic ulcer. Due to the
spasm of the thoracic muscles respiration is difficult. A rise in blood
pressure occurs, there is frequently nausea and vomiting, a slight
fever and leucocytosis. The general symptoms make their appear-
ance within 4 hours and may last for 2 to 3 days. In fatal cases
death occurs in from 18 to 36 hours. The observations are in general
agreement with those of Baerg (1922) and of Blair (1934), who per-
mitted spiders to bite them under controlled conditions. Relief from
pain seems to be difficult to obtain, relatively large doses of morphine
are without much effect; hot baths are very helpful.

In the rat, administration of the venom is followed by paralytic
symptoms which are first evidenced by a peculiar stiffness of gait
and awkwardness in movement. The hind legs are first affected and
the animal walks with the rear elevated. One or both forelegs are
next affected and the animal sits in a hunched up position with the
forelegs bent and held close to the body. At this time the animal
refuses to move unless violently stimulated but can withdraw the
foot if the toes be pinched. As regards respiration, we noted a differ-
ence in behavior usually depending upon the size of the animal. In
immature rats the respiration becomes progressively more and more
shallow, the animal lies in a state of coma; as death approaches, the
breathing becomes almost imperceptible. In older rats respiration
becomes extremely labored. The animal gasps violently for air but
is apparently unable to fill the lungs. This labored respiration con-
tinues until death occurs. Many rats were autopsied immediately
after death. In all cases the lungs collapsed when the thorax was .
opened, indicating no constriction of the bronchioles, although, as
will be noted later, ephedrine appeared to give considerable relief.
The auricles were usually beating. There were no gross signs of
pathologic changes.

One effect which was invariably produced was an irritation of the
lachrymal glands. The eyes watered profusely; they were usually
closed or nearly so. There was always an accumulation of bloody
serum around the nostrils, frequently in considerable amounts. This
happened even when there was no labored respiration. The animals
suffered from thirst and in the earlier stages made efforts to drink
but were apparently unable to swallow.

DISCUSSION

The questions we have been asked most frequently as the fact
of our investigation of the spider became known were these: 1. Are
the spiders increasing greatly in numbers? 2. Is the spider changing

1147283928
420 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938

its habits, that is, is it leaving its rural haunts and invading settled
communities to a greater degree than before? 3. What methods of
eradication are feasible? 4. Does the spider represent a real menace?
5. Is there any effective antidote? 6. What are the possibilities of
antivenin? ‘To the first question the authors do not hesitate to give
an affirmative answer. This may appear unjustified since this is
admittedly the first year in which we have collected the spider. If
the black widow were smaller, if its appearance were not so striking,
if it were easily confused with some other form, or if it had previously
been fairly common, one might hesitate to commit himself. How-
ever, as an example, we have a cold box set just outside the labora-
tory, on the ground level, and opening into the room by means of a
window. So far, we have on two different occasions found three
spiders at one time and another time two spiders, in webs close to
the window. They are visible all the way across the room. When
opening the window, one must be blind not to see them. This box
has been there for years. We feel morally certain that had spiders
ever been in the same location before we would have noticed them.

It is, of course, true that one sees what one looks for, and the
newspaper publicity which these spiders have received has caused
many more of them to be noticed and reported than would otherwise
have been the case. On the other hand, farmers and fruit growers
are usually quite observant as to the kind of insects found on their
crops and when this year, for the first time, reports are received
that tomato growers find the spiders so bad that protective clothing
must be worn, when grape growers report that in some places the
spiders are so numerous that the pickers refuse to work and the
grapes are rotting upon the vines, and peach growers notice many of
them in their orchards, the conclusion seems inescapable that they
are more numerous this year than ever before.

The second question, relating to an apparent change in the habits
of the spider, in that it seems to be invading settled communities to
a greater degree, is to some extent dependent upon the first. If the
spiders in a given region increase greatly in numbers, their manner of
dispersal by wind and their utilization of such means of transporta-
tion as box cars would make it inevitable that some would find them-
selves within towns and cities. Once having become established,
their chances for survival and increase are favored. Many of them
have been found in basements, garages and similar places where they
are protected against the cold to a much greater degree than would
be the case out in the open. We believe that the increase in num-
bers noted during the past summer is due to the mild winter which
preceded it; however, cold will not operate as a check upon those
which have established themselves in the garages and basements of
heated buildings. The conclusion appears inescapable that, unless
BLACK WIDOW SPIDER—D’AMOUR ET AL. 421

drastic methods of eradication are employed, we will have a con-
siderable, and probably an increasing number of these unwelcome
guests.

This leads to the problem of eradication. We have tested, under
laboratory conditions, several of the more common insecticides. The
general conclusion was that such insecticides as Flit and Black Flag,
in concentrations sufficient to kill promptly all flies within the room,
is without effect upon spiders, as would be expected from the difference
in the anatomy of the respiratory organs. Sulphur dioxide, in high
concentration, will kill them in time, as will carbon disulphide, though
relatively high concentrations and long exposures are necessary.
Often the spider appears to be dead and remains so for hours but
eventually recovers. Hydrogen cyanide, in the form of cyanogas, is
effective, but too dangerous to recommend for general use. The
California State Department of Health recommends the use of
creosote and crude oil sprays, which would no doubt be effective in
certain locations, but are obviously unavailable in vineyards or
tomato beds. The spider is far from gregarious in its habits and
consequently a given basement or garage will not harbor more than
perhaps a half dozen. Our suggestion, when called upon for advice,
has been to locate the individual spider, easiest done at night, and
destroy it, rather than resort to general fumigation. This advice is
valueless for the aforementioned farmer or fruit grower; protective
clothing during the picking season and burning of debris afterward is
about all that can be suggested.

Does the spider represent a real menace? We have emphasized
throughout, in our dealings with the press and public, the fact that
the spider is above all extremely timid. We have rarely seen a spider,
disturbed in her web, who made any pretense of defense, to say noth-
ing of attacking. They will almost invariably run and hide and re-
main out of sight in a crevice or hole for hours afterward. The
danger lies in accidentally squeezing one when picking up some object
to which the spider is clinging, when putting on old clothing left
hanging in a shed, or in some similar way. Some children enjoy
catching and playing with crawling things, which cannot be done
with impunity with the black widow. As to the bite itself, there can
be no question of its frequently serious, sometimes fatal, effects.
The statement sometimes heard, even from zoologists who should
know better, that the bite of a black widow is no more dangerous than
that of a mosquito, must, in view of extensive clinical experience, be
branded as false and dangerous.

There is, at present, no effective antidote. First-aid treatment
might well comprise the application of a tourniquet, free incision and
the sucking out of the venom either by means of the mouth or some
mechanical device. However, as Bogen has emphasized, the spider
422 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938

usually lives in filthy surroundings and the danger of infection is con-
sequently great. Thorough sterilization of the site of the wound
should therefore precede incision. Further treatment is best carried
out in a hospital; it consists mainly of measures taken to alleviate
pain, the free use of morphine, hot baths, etc.

BIBLIOGRAPHY

Barre, W. J.
1922. The effects of the bite of Latrodectus mactans. Journ. Parasitol., vol.
9, p. 161.
Buair, ALAN.
1934. Spider poisoning. Arch. Internal Medicine, vol. 54, p. 831.
Bogen, Emin.
1932. Poisonous spider bites. Ann. Internal Medicine, vol. 6, p. 375.
Burt, Cuas. E.
1935. A review of the biology and distribution of the hourglass spider.
Journ. Kansas Ent. Soc., vol. 8, No. 4, p. 117.
Cowakrp, K. H., and Burn, J. H.
1927. Errors in biologic assays. Journ. Physiol., vol. 63, p. 270,
D’Amoor, F. E., and Gustavson, R. G.
1930. A critical study of the assay of female sex hormone preparations.
Journ. Pharmacol. and Experimental Therapeutics, vol. 40, No. 4,
p. 478.
Irvine, WituiaM G., and Hinman, E. Haron.
1935. Science, vol. 82, No. 2130, p. 395.
Lawson, P. B.
1933. Notes on the life history of the hourglass spider. Ann. Ent. Soc
Amer., vol. 26, No. 4, p. 568.
Levy, R.
1916. Contribution 4 l’étude des toxines chez les araignées. Paris Ann
Sci. Nat. Zool., ser. 10, p. 161.
Puitip, CORNELIUS B.:
1935. Arachnidism, black widow spider poisoning. Northwest Medicine,
vol. 34, p. 52.
Szu, C., and Wu, H.
1934. Fractional precipitation of serum protein with methyl alcohol.
Chinese Journ. Physiol., vol. 8, p. 97.
TREVAN, J. W.
1927. Error of determination of toxicity. Proc. Roy. Soc., ser. B, vol.
101, p. 483.
Troiss, E.
1928. Sérum actif contre le venin de l’araignée Latrodectus mactans C. R.,
Soc. Biol., vol. 99, p. 1484.
Ayn} Burult jo USIS B O18 O10T $59 popued o9,.L *Auoqo poystpod JO YORVl[q 94 SI Joptds 9} JO JsoI OY} PUB Pd ST Ssblsinoy oy} 0.1njeU UT

“INIYd ALIHM-ANY-HOV1g V NI SLIHM SSVYTSYNOH AHL MOHS OL SV OS Y¥S1TIA4 GAY HLIM NAaxMVL AIVWSsd SYNLVYANWI

| 3iv1d odry ue, pure ‘1axD0q ‘INOW C]—"gEG| ‘WOdey UeIUOSY{IUIG
Smithsonian Report, 1938.—D’Amour, Becker, and Van Riper PLATE 2

FOUR STAGES IN THE DEVELOPMENT OF THE FEMALE.

About two-molt intervals. The largest isabout two molts rem oved from maturity, the smallest is the spider
as it emerges from the egg sac. X 6.

Smithsonian Report, 1938.—D’Amour, Becker, and Van Riper PLATE 3

1. BLACK WIDOW IN CHARACTERISTIC POSITION GUARDING HER EGG SAC.

2. THE EMERGENCE OF THE YCUNG SPIDERS FROM THE EGG SAC.
ee

ES, A ON Ee

-OQNaddVY IV LINAS NAT1IOMS AHL ANV

“ksli\vfal SlieHl che) Selo,
S947 GSGNV@G GNV GayYO10D

JUD NAL ei wh,

MOV AHL NO SONIMYVW SALIHM AHL SNIMOHS ‘S31VW AHL

vy ALV1d

Jadiyy ue, pure ‘193999¢ ‘moury C]—g¢6l *yaoday ueluosyyIWg
Smithsonian Report, 1938.—D’Amour, Becker, and Van Riper PLATE 5

1. PORTION OF A CROSS SECTION OF A POISON GLAND.

—~ basal segment ot the
tirst /s9

chelicera

Front view of the pead X30

2. DIAGRAMMATIC, ANTERIOR VIEW OF HEAD, SHOWING CHELICERAE AND FANGS
OF MATURE FEMALE.
THE LANGUAGE OF BEES!

By Prof. K. von Friscu
The University of Munich

To understand the language of bees it is first necessary to know
something about the senses of bees. The senses of bees are of
special interest for biologists, because bees are flower-visiting insects.
Since the time of the German naturalist Chr. K. Sprengel, more than
140 years ago, we distinguish two main types of flower in the higher
plants. A great many plants have small, scarcely visible blossoms
without any scent, and their pollination is effected by the wind.
Such blossoms have plenty of pollen, which is spread by the wind and
comes by chance to other blossoms of the same species. The other
plants have conspicuous, brightly colored blossoms, or a striking
scent, or both colors and scent. We call them flowers. Such flowers
produce honey, and they are therefore visited by feeding insects,
which effect the pollination quickly and surely by flying from one
flower to the next one of the kind. It seems probable that the flowers
have their color and scent to make them more striking for the visitors.
In this way, the insects can more easily find them and get their food,
and the pollination of the flowers is guaranteed.

Sprengel’s view was not accepted by all naturalists. There was a
controversy on this subject for many years, especially concerning the
function of the colors of flowers. Even 25 years ago Professor Hess
asserted that bees and all other insects are color-blind. If this is true,
the colors of flowers cannot be of the biological significance that
Sprengel thought. I tried, therefore, to find out whether bees can
distinguish colors.

The honey bee is a social insect. It lives in a beehive. In such a
hive there are about 70,000 bees, only one of which is a fully developed
female, the queen, the only egg-laying insect of all the inhabitants of
a beehive. The males are plumper, and very stupid and lazy. Most
of the inhabitants are worker bees. They are not able to produce
eggs under normal circumstances. But they do all the work in the
hive, they feed the larvae, they build the wax combs, they are the
charwomen in the hive, and only the worker bees fly out to get honey
and pollen as food for the inhabitants.

1 Lecture delivered at University College, London, March 1937. Reprinted by permission from Science
Progress, vo]. 32, No. 125, July 1937.
423
424 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938

Such food-collecting worker bees we take for our experiment.
We use the scent of a little honey to attract some bees to our experi-
mental table, and feed them, for instance on a blue cardboard.
They suck up the food and, after homing, give it to other bees in
the hive. Then they return to the good feeding-place they have
discovered. We let them do so a while, and then we take away
the blue cardboard with honey and put a new clean blue cardboard
on the left, and a red one on the right of the feeding-place hitherto
existing. Should the bees remember that they found the food on
a blue cardboard, and should they be able to distinguish between
blue and red, they would fly to the blue color. That is exactly what
happens.

This is an old experiment, already carried out by the English
naturalist John Lubbock. It proves that bees can distinguish colors.
But it does not prove that bees have color-sense. It is not the same
thing. There are (very rarely) totally color-blind men. They see all
things in much the same manner as we see them in an ordinary photo-
graph. They can distinguish between red and blue, for red is very
dark to them and blue much lighter. From our experiment we can-
not conclude whether the bees have distinguished red and blue by the
colors or by the shades, as a color-blind man does.

For a color-blind human eye every color is a gray of a distinct degree
of brightness. What the brightness may be for the eye of a color-
blind insect we do not know. We therefore make the following
arrangement.

We place a blue cardboard on a table and beside it and around it
gray cardboards of all shades from white to black. On each card
there is a little watch-glass, but only the glass dish on the blue card-
board contains food (sugar water). In this way we train the bees to
the color blue. Bees have a very good memory for place. We there-
fore change the respective positions of the cards very often. But the
food is always placed on the blue cardboard, and the color therefore
indicates invariably where the food is to be found.

After some hours or after some days we can make the decisive
experiment. The cardboards and glass dishes soiled by the bees are
taken away. We put on the table a new, clean series of differently
shaded gray cardboards, and anywhere between them we put a clean
blue cardboard with an empty glass dish. The bees remember the
blue color and alight only on the blue cardboard. They distinguish
it without hesitation from all degrees of gray. They therefore have
a color sense.

Training to orange, yellow, green, violet, or purple gives the same
good results. But bees trained to scarlet red alight not only on the
red paper but in the same manner on black and all dark papers in our
arrangement. Red and dark are the same for bees’ eyes. Bees are
THE LANGUAGE OF BEES—VON FRISCH 425

red-blind. That is very interesting. We understand why scarlet red
bee-blossoms are so rarely found. There are very many red flowers in
America, for instance, but only in bird-blossoms. Birds’ eyes are very
sensitive to red. In Europe there are some plants with red flowers,
but their pollination is—with few exceptions—effected by certain
butterflies. These butterflies are the only insects which are not red-
blind. There is an exception to the rule—the poppy, the flowers of
which are visited by bees although they are scarlet red. But these
flowers reflect many ultraviolet rays. Bees are able to perceive ultra-
violet rays. Ultraviolet is a special color for them, distinguishable
from blue and all other colors. It is evident that the colors of flowers
have been developed as an adaptation to the color-sense of their
visitors.

One more thing is of interest to biologists. We make the follow-
ing experiment. We train bees to blue, and then we put all the
different-colored cardboards on the table. The bees seek the blue
color, but are unable to find it with certainty; they confuse it with
violet and purple. Bees trained to yellow confuse the yellow with
orange and green. It is important to notice that they cannot dis-
tinguish as many color shades as we can.

Bees restrict their visits to certain flowers. A given individual on
its trip always visits definite species of flowers. That is of advantage
for the bees, which on all flowers of the same kind meet with the same
mechanism of blossom and save time through being acquainted with it;
it is also of advantage for flowers, for their pollination depends on bees
coming from other flowers of the same species. If the bees specialize
in certain flowers, they must be able to distinguish the different kinds
of flowers. Biologists formerly thought that it was the difference of
color shade which enabled bees to distinguish them. Now we hear
that bees cannot distinguish so many different shades of color as we
can. They must, therefore, have other means of distinguishing the
different kinds of flowers. It might possibly be the scent of flowers.
Such considerations led me to my work about the sense of smell in bees.

The result was that we found that the scent of flowers is the most
important factor that enables bees to recognize the different flowers.
We can train bees to scent just as we trained them to color. Ona
table we place some cardboard boxes, each of which can be opened from
above. ‘There is a hole in the front of the box. In only one of the
cardboard boxes is there a feeding-glass, and into the same box we drop
a little essential oil. The other boxes are without scent and without
food. We change the position of the food box frequently in order to
avoid a training to place. The scent guides the bees to the food.
After some hours we put away all the boxes soiled by the visiting bees,
and make a new arrangement with boxes not yet touched by bees. In
one of them, we drop a little of the scent we have adopted for training
426 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938

purposes, but there is no food init. The bees fly to the boxes, smelling
around the holes, but they only enter the scent box. It is therefore
clear that they can smell this scent, and that they use it as a guide to
the food place.

The sense of taste is a very closely allied sense. It is also a chemical
sense. But for taste it is necessary that the mouth parts should come
in contact with a solution. Ifit is a sweet solution, the bees suck it up.
Indeed, the bees are rather fastidious about sweetness. If it is a solu-
tion containing 20 percent saccharose, they suck it up. If it contains
10 percent we can see that in bees as in men there is an individual
difference in taste. Some bees drink, others hesitate, and others refuse
it. If it contains 5 percent, they taste it and refuse to accept it. In
this connection it is interesting that nectar in bee-blossoms is always a
solution with a high content of sugar; on an average nectar contains
about 40 percent sugar.

Training to taste is impossible. Either they drink the solution,
or they refuse it. Nevertheless, it is possible to find out something
about the quality of their sense of taste. But I cannot explain
the methods in a few words. Let me only say that bees can dis-
tinguish the same qualities as we can—sweet, bitter, sour, salty.
But not all substances we consider sweet are sweet for bees. Many
sugars very sweet for us are tasteless to bees, e. g., lactose, cellobiose,
raffiinose, etc. And the artificial sugars saccharin and dulcin are
not sweet but are tasteless to bees.

It is much easier to find out more facts about the quality of
the sense of smell in bees, because we can train to a certain scent.
Thus, for example, we provide all the boxes with different scents.
The bees trained to a certain scent are able to pick out the training
scent from 30 to 40 different scents. Furthermore, we can dilute
the training scent more and more, and the result is that for the
sense of smell in bees the limit is quite the same as for human beings.
The scent of most flowers, therefore, cannot attract from a great
distance. The color of flowers has the advantage of attracting bees
from a greater distance. Scent has the advantage of being perfectly
distinct for each species of flower. And so the scent permits the
definite recognition of flowers from nearby.

In earlier times biologists thought that the function of the scent
of flowers was to attract insects and to enable them to find the
flowers. I think this is true of such bees as fly out to seek new
feeding-places; for scout bees. Another function of scent is to enable
the collecting bees to recognize certain flowers to which they are
true and to distinguish them from other kinds of flowers. But
there is one more function of scent—perhaps the most important.
To explain it J must speak about the language of bees.
THE LANGUAGE OF BEES—VON FRISCH 427

They have something like a language. That is clear from the
following observation: When I want some bees for experiments, I
place some sheets of paper smeared with honey on the experiment-
table in the open air. Then I have to wait many hours, many days
even, until finally a bee discovers the feeding-place. But as soon
as one bee has found the honey, very many will appear, perhaps
several hundred, within a short time. They all come from the same
hive as the first discoverer. The latter must have announced its
discovery at home. How is that possible? How could it com-
municate its discovery?

To clear up the matter two conditions must be fulfilled: First, a
hive allowing one to watch all events taking place on the wax combs
in the interior of the hive. For this I constructed observation hives
in which the wax combs are not arranged one behind the other, but
one beside the other, all together forming a large wax comb, the
surface of which can be observed through glass windows. Second,
every experimental bee must be numbered to enable it to be recog-
nized personally at first sight in the mass of other bees on the wax
combs. I succeeded in painting them with colored spots in five
different colors. A white spot on the fore part of the thorax is num-
ber 1, a red spot 2, orange 3, yellow 4, green 5. A white spot on the
hind part of the thorax is number 6, red 7, orange 8, yellow 9, green
zero. Now it is possible to write two-figure numbers. The hun-
dreds we paint on the abdomen. Thus we can number them up to
599. The colored numbers can be read as easily as written ones, and
can be recognized when the bee is in flight, so that at our feeding-
place we can see from a considerable distance—here comes No.
17, etc.

Now, a bee which has discovered the feeding-place is marked with
color and observed after homing in the observation hive. First, it
delivers the honey or sugar water, found and sucked up on our table,
to other bees in the hive. Then it begins to dance. On the same
spot it turns round and round in a circle with quick, tripping little
steps, once to the right, once to the left, very vigorously, often half a
minute or a full minute on the same spot. The dance is then often
repeated on another spot. It is not possible to give a good description
in mere words. The dance finishes just as suddenly as it began, the
bee hurries to the hole of the hive and returns to the feeding-place.

The bees on the wax comb around the dancing bee become greatly
excited by the dance, they trip behind the dancer, following all its
turning movements. They turn their heads to it and keep their
feelers as closely as possible to its body, and it is evident that they
are highly interested. Suddenly one of the following bees and then
another turns away, cleans its wings and antennae, and leaves the
hive. Soon afterward these new bees appear at the food place.
428 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938

After homing, they dance also and the more bees there are dancing in
the hive the more appear at the feeding-place. It is clear that the
existence of the food is communicated by the dance in the hive. But
it is not clear how the bees which have been communicated with can
find the feeding-place. How can they know where it is, and where
they have to fly?

The simplest assumption would be that when the discoverer returns
to the feeding-place the new bees fly behind it. But that is not the
case. The new bees do not fly behind our marked discoverer; they
appear at the feeding-place quite independently.

I could not understand it till I made the following experiment:
I fed some of the numbered bees of the observation hive at a feeding-
place 40 feet to the west of the hive. In the meadow round the
hive to the north, south, west, and east I put glass dishes with sugar
water and a little honey on the ground. If the dancer bee dancing
in the hive reported where the feeding-place was, the new bees would
all fly to the west feeding-place. As a matter of fact, a few minutes
after the commencement of the dance new bees appeared at the same
time at all the little dishes to the north and south, to the west and
east. They did not know where the food was. They flew out in all
directions and looked for it. When there were no dances in the hive,
the little glass dishes in the meadow were not visited by any bee for
many days. As soon as there were dances in the hive, the dishes in
the neighborhood were all found within the shortest time.

But not only in the neighborhood! In further experiments I left
the feeding-dish, visited by some numbered bees, at a short distance
from the hive. And I put some other dishes farther and farther
away in the meadow, observing whether they would be found or not.
The farther they were the longer time it took till they were found by
the bees sent out by the dancer. In the last experiment they were
found after 4 hours in a meadow a full kilometer from the hive, with
hills and woods lying between them. It is clear from a long series of
experiments that after the commencement of the dances the bees first
seek in the neighborhood, and then go farther away, and finally search
the whole flying district.

So the language of bees seemed to be very simple. But feeding
from glass dishes is not natural for bees. If we make the conditions
more natural, we get a new riddle at once.

We put the glass dish away, and feed the numbered bees at the
same place on flowers, e. g., on cyclamen. Into the flowers we drop
sugar water to provide plenty of food. The collecting bees dance
after homing. New bees fly out seeking—but seeking something
definite. In the vicinity we put a larger dish with cyclamen on the
ground, and a similar dish with phlox. The new bees are only
THE LANGUAGE OF BEES—VON FRISCH 429

interested in cyclamen. They take no notice of phlox. Now we
change the flowers at the feeding-place and put food in phlox blos-
soms. After 5 or 10 minutes the situation at the observation place
changes, the new bees now are not interested in cyclamen, they only
alight on phlox and search through the flowers, examining them as if
they were convinced there must be food there. Everywhere in
neighboring gardens where phlox plants are we can observe questing
bees—a curious sight for everybody aware that bees cannot get
honey from phlox blossoms and therefore never visit phlox under
normal circumstances. The dancer bee has not only reported that
there is food, but also in what kind of flowers it is to be found.

In performing this experiment I succeeded with all kinds of flowers
with the exception of flowers without any scent. And so it is not
difficult to find out the manner of communication. When the
collecting bee alights on the scented flowers to suck up the food, the
scent of the flower is taken up by its body-surface and hairs, and when
it dances after homing the interested bees following the movements
of the dancer bee, and holding their antennae against its body, per-
ceive the specific scent on its body and know what kind of scent must
be sought to find the good feeding-place announced by the dancing
bee. That this view is correct can be proved easily. We feed some
numbered bees, giving them sugar water in a glass dish, on a card-
board on which some essential oil has been dropped. Then, in the
neighborhood on the ground, we put some cardboards with drops of
various essential oils on them. The bees sent out by our dancer bees
are only interested in the scent of the essential oil dropped on the
feeding-cardboard, and alight on every place and everything provided
with this scent. They take no notice of cardboards provided with
other essential oils.

It is thus seen that there is a biological function of flower scent not
known before. The dancing bee can communicate a message about
all kinds of scented flowers by means of the scent adhering to its body.

But the language of bees is still more perfect than has been shown
up to now. A little variation of our experiment makes this clear.
At the feeding-place we put sugar water in the glass dish, and we
renew all sugar water taken away by the collecting bees. There is
plenty of food. The collecting bees dance after homing, and new
bees continually come out, and more and more discover the feeding-
place. Now we remove the full glass dish and we put in its place a
glass dish provided with some sheets of filter paper moistened from
beneath with a little sugar water by means of a syringe. Now there is
a scarcity of food. It is troublesome to suck it up, and takes a long
time. Now the bees do not dance after homing. They deliver the
food to other bees and return to the feeding-place, they continue to
collect the food no less industriously, but they do not dance, and so
430 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938

they do not attract new worker bees to their feeding-place. Just the
same is true of flower-visiting bees. They only dance if they find
plenty of food. As soon as the flowers are visited by so many bees
that all nectar produced by the flowers can be easily collected and
taken away, there is no longer plenty of food, the dances stop, and no
more worker bees are attracted. This makes it possible that there is
always a correct proportion between the number of collecting bees
and the quantity of food offered by a certain kind of flowers.

But one more thing still—the dances depend not only on the
quantity of food but also on its sweetness. If we feed the bees with
sugar water of a very high concentration the dances are very vigorous.
If the concentrationis diminished, the dances are continued, but less
vigorously. If the concentration is still further diminished to a
certain point, the collection of food is still continued, but there are no
dances in the hive, although there is plenty of food. In natural
conditions this is very important. For when various kinds of flowers
with different concentrations of nectar begin to bloom at the same
time, and are discovered by scout bees belonging to the same hive,
the bees discovering the flowers with the best nectar dance most
vigorously, and attract the largest number of worker bees for the best
flowers. That is the role of the sense of taste in the language of bees.

But there is a word in the bee language not yet mentioned. The
bees have a scent organ on their abdomen located in a pocket of skin
containing glands. Usually the scent organ is closed and cannot give
out scent. But bees which have discovered a good feeding-place put
out the scent organ on returning to the place, and thus they give out
a scent that is very attractive to other bees. It can be concluded
from special experiments that the scent of this scent organ is much
more intensive for bees than for us. It tells the questing bees with
special emphasis where the good place is, as soon as they are in the
vicinity, and attracts them from quite a considerable distance.

It may be that some of my statements seem to be a little hypo-
thetical. But all the results I have mentioned have been obtained
from long series of experiments. To deal more thoroughly with the
experimental methods here is impossible.

To sum up: If a new kind of flower begins to bloom in a certain
region, it is discovered after some time by scout bees. The first
bees find the flowers full of nectar. They find plenty of food and
after homing they report the discovery by dancing, and in addition
indicate the species of flowers by means of the scent adhering to
their bodies. The bees communicated with fly out and look for the
flowers with this specific scent. Flying out in all directions, they find
out in the shortest time the plant which has commenced to bloom,
wherever it is in the entire flying district. Where there are already
collecting bees, the scent of the scent organ makes it easier for fresh

ee —
THE LANGUAGE OF BEES—VON FRISCH 431

questing bees to find the good feeding-place. When the number of
bees has become sufficient to collect the amount of nectar in these
flowers, the flowers are no longer full of nectar, the nectar becomes
scarce, there is no more dancing and the number of bees does not
increase. If different plants begin to bloom at the same time, the
flowers with the sweetest nectar cause the most vigorous dancing
and, incited by the scent adhering to the body of the dancer bee,
the largest number of bees fly to the best feeding-plants.
=

FOREST GENETICS!

By Luorp AvstTIN
In Charge, Institute of Forest Genetics, Placerville, Calif.

[With three plates]

The widespread interest in conservation and reforestation through-
out the nation today is focusing attention more and more upon the
need for improved strains of forest trees. People are awakening to
the realization that the commonly used forms of even the best species
of existing timber trees are, in most instances, comparatively ill-
adapted to planting under present economic conditions.

Is it not too much to expect that the wild types of trees as found
in nature would be ideally adapted to meet the exacting demands of
the present day? Centuries ago the agriculturists realized the
inadequacy of wild plants and animals and began their efforts to
develop superior strains. Today, after an extended period of breed-
ing and selection by innumerable individuals and organizations,
there are available for the use of modern farmers a great many im-
proved types of farm crops, orchard fruits, and domestic animals.
Most of the original wild types have long been abandoned for
economic production.

It is little short of amazing then, that at this same period of develop-
ment almost all reforestation activities are seriously encumbered, and
rendered only partially effective, by the fact that they must, of
necessity, utilize the wild, primeval types of forest trees that have not
been improved from those that were available when the white man
first trod upon American soil.

Why such a paradoxical situation? There are probably two
fundamental causes. In the first place, so long as there was an
abundance of virgin timber, forestry was, to a considerable extent,
merely a matter of protecting, harvesting, and marketing nature’s
accumulation of centuries. But now that man must take an active
part in restocking the vast areas of denuded land, timber must be
regarded as a crop, and as such falls naturally and properly within
the domain of the plant breeder or geneticist. Secondly, it seems
likely that the great longevity of timber trees, and the infinite com-

1 Reprinted by permission from American Forests, vol. 43, No. 9, September 1937.
433
434 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938

‘plexity of the problem, have, until recently, deterred foresters and
geneticists from giving detailed thought to the wonderful and stimulat-
ing possibilities of specializing in this particular field of research.

In 1924, there was no institution in the United States, and probably
none in the entire world, devoted solely to the production of inherently
superior rapid-growing strains of forest trees. But in 1925, through
the extraordinary vision and foresight of James G. Eddy, a lumber-
man of Medina, Wash., the Institute of Forest Genetics was founded
at Placerville, Calif. Mr. Eddy’s knowledge of the practical aspects
of forestry and his studies of plant-breeding achievements led him
to the conviction that the improvement of the wild strains of timber
trees is both necessary and feasible—a conviction that has since been
abundantly confirmed.

Many have thought that the genetical principles of selection and
hybridization could be applied to forest trees, but no other American
took steps to actually establish an institution devoted solely to that
purpose. His never-ending enthusiasm, his stimulating counsel, and
his personal support of the entire investigative program for the first
8 years, have made possible the progress that has been made.

As the research in this virgin field has progressed, and as its aims
and purpose have gradually broadened to meet the needs of the nation,
there has been a natural and corresponding broadening of the organi-
zation of the Institute. In 1932 the original name, the Eddy Tree
Breeding Station, was changed to the Institute of Forest Genetics,
better to express the broad and scientific character of the investiga-
tions being conducted. At that time the property and control were
transferred to a national Board of Trustees of 18 prominent scientists
and business men well qualified to guide the destinies of such an insti-
tution.

During 1933 and 1934 the Carnegie Institution of Washington made
several grants to the Institute to aid in carrying forward its protracted
research work. Shortly after this the United States Bureau of Plant
Industry, and later the Soil Conservation Service, helped substan-
tially in financing the investigations which have a close connection
with the expanding program for erosion control. The United States
Forest Service also assisted materially during this period.

Another important and auspicious step in the organization of the
Institute took place during the latter part of 1935. Asa result of the
efforts of the Trustees and other friends of the Institute over a period
of several years, the plans to join this national work for public benefit
with the research work of the United States Forest Service were made
possible by an initial Congressional appropriation of $50,000 specifi-
cally for the genetical work of the Institute. Although the Institute
of Forest Genetics is now affiliated with the California Forest Experi-
ment Station of the Forest Service, the investigative work will retain
FOREST GENETICS—AUSTIN 435

its national character and scope. The Board of Trustees is being con-
tinued as an Advisory Board.

Placerville, Calif., was chosen as the site for the Institute’s main
experimental station because of an unusual combination of favorable
conditions. It lies in the center of the belt containing the finest stands
of the principal western pine, ponderosa pine. Within the confines
of the State of California can be found more species of pines, on which
the Institute is specializing, than grow wild in any area of similar size
in the world.

Climatic conditions are naturally of fundamental importance in
determining a suitable location for an enterprise of this character. The
average growing season to date at the Institute is 237 days. The
lowest temperature ever recorded is 16° Farenheit, which is comparable
to central Florida. The location chosen is one of the few in the entire
United States that is situated in an important forested area and that
has a climate sufficiently mild to permit assembling large collections
of basic tree-breeding material from nearly all parts of the world, as is
successfully being done at the Institute.

Although the climate at the main experimental station itself is quite
moderate, there is abundant opportunity, within a driving distance of
50 miles, to obtain testing areas in the foothills and higher reaches of
the Sierra where minimum temperatures range from 16° above zero
to 30° below. On the Atlantic Seaboard one would have to travel
about a thousand miles, from central Florida to New England, to find
an equal range in minimum temperatures.

During the 10 years since its founding the Institute has uncovered
many encouraging facts that indicate clearly that forest genetics is
not only entirely feasible, but that it will yield usable results in a
much shorter time than had been anticipated. Some of the very
factors that are ordinarily regarded as serious obstacles to progress
have been overcome and have been turned about so that they now serve
as material aids to the tree breeder. For example, the long life of
timber trees was regarded by many as a factor that made it seem likely
that it would be at least several decades before tree breeders could
offer to forest planters seeds of improved new types in sufficient
quantities to be of practical significance in reforestation. Yet a
short-cut method has been devised that makes it possible in a relatively
few years to isolate from among the innumerable strains of a given
species that nature has produced through countless generations, those
with superior germ plasm—that is, those that have the inherent charac-
teristics most desired by present-day planters.

The process used is known as a Progeny Test and it isolates these
superior, most vigorous strains as individual seed-trees in the
forest, based on well-replicated nursery and plantation tests of their

114728—39——29
436 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938

progenies. The very fact that timber trees are longer lived than
agricultural crops is a distinct advantage, for it makes possible a
long-continued supply of better seeds once the desirable seed-trees
are found. Many of these superior trees that are being discovered
as the investigations progress have been growing for 100 years or
more, and are capable of yielding for many decades heavy seed crops
every few years. Even a single seed crop from one of these selected
seed-trees will often be such that enough seed can be collected to
produce from 5,000 to 20,000 superior seedlings. This illustrates the
untold potentialities of these new genetical methods, and the com-
paratively short time required for them to yield results that have
practical application to present-day reforestation.

Results so far seem to indicate that the easily obtained wind-polli-
nated seed is usually adequate for the various preliminary tests in
which seed is gathered over wide areas, even though only one parent
is thus known and controlled. However, as the investigations become
localized in the areas that are found to contain the better trees, it
may prove desirable to conduct some of the progeny tests with self-
pollinated seed. Also, various tests of crossing the better individuals
will be helpful in showing which combinations of parents will yield the
best offspring.

As rapidly as relatively isolated plots of native trees containing a
number of germinally superior individuals are found, it would seem
that in preparing them to serve as future seed supply areas, it may be
possible to improve the average vigor of the offspring from the best
trees still further by cutting out, not those that appear externally to
be undesirable, but those trees that the progeny tests have shown to
be inferior. Thus their pollen will be eliminated and henceforth
natural cross pollination will take place largely between the hereditarily
better types.

The application of this progeny test method over a wide range of
seed sources has not only pointed out some of the best individual
seed-trees in each locality, but it has also brought to light marked
differences in the general character of the numerous local strains. In
one such test with ponderosa pine, the Institute compared side by
side in a single nursery the progenies of 765 individual seed-trees
growing in 60 counties in 12 western States and in British Columbia.
The data gathered from this exhaustive study revealed the existence
of numerous geographical races of this important timber species,
each with distinct physical characteristics that will affect both the
volume and quality of the lumber produced. One of the most signifi-
cant and useful of the facts that these tests have revealed is that, in the
Sierra Nevada of California, hereditary vigor has been found to be
quite generally associated with the lower elevation of the seed source.
FOREST GENETICS—AUSTIN 437

Although these and other findings here reported will, obviously,
need checking by further experimentation, enough has been learned
to demonstrate the tremendous practical possibilities that these
methods offer to whomsoever will put them into use.

There probably will be no one best strain of any one species of pine
for all timber-growing climates and soils where the species is to be used.
Various superior strains will be needed, and as these are gradually
developed and widely tested, they can be expected to exhibit some
variation in the expression of their hereditary characters in different
localities, depending on the local environmental conditions. Con-
sequently, various field trials will be required to determine just which
of the better strains are best adapted to each locality. In this way
we will insure the maximum growth and highest quality of lumber
possible under each set of conditions.

From still another line of experimentation has come valuable new
information that demonstrates the practicability of improving the
strains of forest trees within a reasonable length of time. Many had
thought that it would usually be necessary to wait until seedlings
were 15 to 20 years old or more before they would flower so that
hybridization experiments could be conducted with artificially grown
trees. But tests in the Institute’s nursery and arboretum have shown
that many different species of conifers, particularly pines, flower at
the early ages of 2 to 5 years.

Astonishing as it may seem, one Chinese species of pine, Pinus
sinensis, actually blossomed profusely in the nursery at the age of
1 year from seed, thus causing pine breeding to approach, in some
respects, the facility with which annual crops, such as wheat and corn,
can be hybridized. As early as 1932 no less than 44 species of forest
trees were flowering in the Institute’s arboretum, although the first
plantings were made only 6 years before, and many of the trees were
considerably younger than this. Among those that flowered at this
early date were several 2-year-old seedlings of the Japanese red pine,
Pinus densiflora, grown from seed collected in the arboretum. Not
many species are quite as precocious as this, but the average age of
initial flowering for pines has been found to be so low that cross polli-
nation experiments can be conducted with them and tree generations
can be secured much more rapidly than had been anticipated.

Another discovery offering much encouragement to the pine breeder
is the great longevity of pine pollen. Simple and inexpensive methods
have been found that will often keep this pollen viable for a year or
more. ‘This is in sharp contrast to the condition that exists in some
other plants, such as corn, in which the pollen lives only about 24
hours, and if not used within that time is of no avail. The long life
of pine pollen makes possible its shipment from the forests of distant
438 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938

countries for hybridization with native species and with others that
may be flowering in the arboretum.

The possibility of hybridizing forest trees, and of actually combin-
ing in a single new hybrid form the desirable characters previously
existing only in separate species, has been fully demonstrated in
hybrids produced at the Institute, as well as in certain natural hybrids
that have been discovered. The most outstanding of the Institute’s
artificial hybrids to date is a cross of the Knobcone pine, Pinus atten-
uata, a relatively slow-growing but hardy species, and the Monterey
pine, Pinus radiata, a species which lacks hardiness but which is the
fastest-growing of all species tested from 40 countries. All of the
hybrids have, very fortunately, inherited the cold-hardiness of the
seed-parent and the rapid growth of the pollen-parent.

As one of the results of the study of artificially controlled pollina-
tion of pines, it has been observed in experiments with several different
species that when the flowers of a pine tree are pollinated with pollen
from the same tree, the yield of seed tends to be abnormally low, and
the germination of the seeds is usually comparatively poor. In addi-
tion, the resultant seedlings are often quite deficient in vigor, as com-
pared with normal seedlings resulting from wind-pollination, which
ordinarily seems to include much crossing with neighboring trees.
These results may be taken as indications that, in all probability,
many of the individual trees in the wilds are partially self-sterile and
will yield vigorous offspring only when cross-pollinated with pollen
from other trees, usually of the same species.

Apparently pines behave much as do many of the crop plants, such
as corn, that have been under tests by geneticists for decades. It is
a common experience in plant breeding to find that there is a reduc-
tion in vigor following selfing or inbreeding, particularly in the first
generation. One application of this finding in practical forestry is to
avoid the collection of seeds from individual trees that are compara-
tively isolated, since such seeds are probably mostly self-pollinated.
Also, in choosing seed-trees to be saved in logging operations, the de-
sirable practice, judging from present knowledge, would seem to be to
leave them in small groups; or if left singly, the seed trees should be
left close enough together to insure adequate cross-pollination by the
wind.

It is well recognized that hybrids between species often will not
come true when reproduced by seed. Consequently the Institute has
given some attention to the possibility of reproducing pines by bud-
ding and grafting, which are the usual commercial methods of propa-
gating practically all orchard fruits and many ornamentals, in order
to insure trueness to type. Though these methods of reproducing
pines are still in the experimental stage, the preliminary tests of

ee
FOREST GENETICS—-AUSTIN 439

budding and grafting were quite successful, even when one species
was budded onto another.

The more one studies genetics, the more thoroughly he becomes
convinced of the widespread application of the fundamental laws of
heredity, and the importance of giving thought today to the genera-
tions yet to come. The universality of these considerations may be
appreciated by observing the close similarity in the situation that has
long existed in forestry and in human society. When war is declared,
the best specimens of manhood are sought out and sent to the front,
often never to return, while those that the examinations show to be
unfit, are left at home to perpetuate the race.

With timber trees, too, this unfortunate practice has been all too
prevalent of using the best for present needs and leaving the discards
with their inferior heritage for the future—a tragic policy, bringing
about the deterioration of the strains of our forest trees through what
might well be termed ‘‘the perpetuation of the unfit.” In some ways
it may seem only natural that many have yielded to the pecuniary
temptation to send to the mill all the finest and largest specimens,
with straightest grain and the best form, leaving as seed-trees for
natural regeneration only the misshapen, diseased, and otherwise un-
desirable types that are not fit for lumber. In many cases the seed
gathered for artificial reforestation has been little better, for all too
often the collectors’ chief concern has been ease of gathering, and
hence much of the seed has come from low, scrubby or stunted trees.

We know that not all of these poor-appearing trees have an inferior
heredity, for those defects that are caused by environmental influ-
ences, such as mechanical injuries, are in no respect hereditary. Yet
on the other hand, we also know that many visible characteristics
that are undesirable economically, such as spiral grain and suscepti-
bility to disease, and many others, are often definitely hereditary. It
seems obvious, then, that any system of selection in which only the
culls and poorest specimens are saved for reproduction must lead
inevitably to the deterioration of the strain.

Another example of the unfortunate tendency to destroy the best,
and one that is seldom appreciated, is afforded by the Institute’s
previously-mentioned discovery that the forms of ponderosa pine
having the greatest inherent vigor seem to come from the low eleva-
tions in the Sierra of California. In this belt, at an elevation of only
900 feet above the sea, lies Coloma, where gold was discovered in
1848, starting an avalanche of adventurous prospectors to California.
With surprising rapidity, mining camps sprang up all along the foot-
hills, and as this new western civilization developed, man unwittingly
logged off great quantities of the easily-accessible low-altitude trees
that we now find constitute a strain having exceptional growth capac-
ities. This deforestation has been carried still farther by the fires that
440 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938

are now so prevalent in this zone. At present there remain in this
low-elevation belt only scattered remnants of the extensive forests
that existed prior to the advent of the white man. This slow but
inevitable utilization and destruction of the relatively few remaining
low-elevation trees of superior heredity is still going on, and so it
behooves us to test as rapidly as possible the offspring of such of these
trees as still exist. For, while nearly all the trees of this strain seem
to yield relatively vigorous progenies, among them may be found one
that surpasses all others—the progenitor of a new, rapid-growing race
of ponderosa pine that can be grown on very short rotations.

It is because forest genetics has often been regarded as an exceed-
ingly slow and unpromising line of scientific endeavor that I have
purposely summarized in this article some of the Institute’s results
that point strongly in the opposite direction. It is not the intention,
however, to give the impression that the path of the tree breeder is
strewn with thornless roses. His advances are always beset with
difficulties, only a portion of which have as yet been overcome. Never-
theless, if we may be permitted to judge the future by the accomplish-
ments of the past, the prospects from our present vantage point are
very bright for bringing about, through the use of genetics, major
advancements in American forestry.
Smithsonian Report, 1938.—Austin

BREEDER AT WORK.

Smithsonian Report, 1938.—Austin PLATE 2

1. Where interesting experiments in speeding up the production and development of trees are being made—
the arboretum of the Institute of Forest Genetics in the Sierra Nevada foothills.

2. Three yearly nursery section panorama—right, enclosed frames for l-year-old ‘‘Progeny Test’’ and
hybridizing experiments; foreground, 2-year-old ‘‘Species Test’’ beds, and in the background are seen
remnants of the results of the 3-year-old experimental nursery.

3. Administration Building and the Institute’s headquarters.

“peas ‘SIBOA ¢ IO} 189A B 109] F IOAO JO YIMOIS OSBIBAB UB UMOYS
UIOJJ 958 JO SIvaA F YB A[JUBPUNB sny} paleMoy sey suid yoR[q ssouvder y “Zz sey ould AarlaJUOPY SIYJ—se01] SUTMOIS 4SojSBy S,aINITJsUy 9 JO 9UCO ‘T

ALV 1d ulsny—g¢6| ‘10dayy ueruosyqUIg
THE STORY OF THE MAIDENHAIR TREE!
By Srr ALBERT C. Sewarp, Sc. D., F.R. 5S.

INTRODUCTORY

In March 1936 several letters were published in The Times drawing
attention to the remarkable history of the maidenhair tree (Ginkgo
biloba L.) and its unique position as a link between the present
age and an almost incredibly remote past. The interest awakened
by the correspondence suggested to me the possibility that a fuller
account of the history, both of the maidenhair tree itself and the
family or group of which it is the sole survivor, might be acceptable
to readers of Science Progress. Ginkgo was selected as one of sev-
eral examples of living plants of ancient lineage in a book first pub-
lished in 1911 entitled “Links with the Past in the Plant World”
and further reference was made to it in an article contributed to
this journal in October 1935 on “Selections from the Study of Plant
Migrations Revealed by Fossils.” More recently, in an article
published in Nature (May 1, 1937) attention was called to some
important contributions to the geological history of the Ginkgo
family by Dr. Florin of Stockholm and Professor Harris of Reading.
My present aim is to give a fuller account of the story of Ginkgo
and its allies, a story founded on data collected from plant-bearing
rocks of many ages and from widely scattered regions. Evidence
furnished by fossils enables us to state with confidence that the
Ginkgo group of trees—the Ginkgoales—was once almost world-
wide in its distribution and comprised many genera and species:
a few million years ago this section of the plant kingdom fell from
its high estate and is now represented by a single species. An
attempt is made in the following pages, omitting unnecessary detail
and technicalities, to present some of the evidence. The first part
of this article is devoted to Ginkgo biloba, and closely related trees
of the same genus which failed to persist until the present age. In
the second part a short account is given of other genera included in
the Ginkgo group that have long been extinct.

1 Reprinted by permission from Science Progress, vol. 32, No. 127, January 1938.
44]
442 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938
PART I
GINKGO BILOBA

Ginkgo, like the larch, is one of the few naked-seeded (Gymno-
sperm) trees that is deciduous; it reaches well over a hundred feet in
height: the branches are spreading or steeply ascending. In the
autumn the leaves assume an attractive golden color before falling.
In shape and venation the foliage is unlike that of any other tree;
it is fan-shaped or triangular and varies considerably in size and
shape. The specific name biloba was chosen because in many, though
by no means all, leaves the blade is divided by a median V-shaped
depression into two symmetrical halves. Leaves vary from about 1
inch to 2 or 3 inches in depth, and from 1 to 3 inches in breadth;
they may reach a breadth of 6 inches, but this is exceptional. The
slender leaf-stalk is 1 or as much as 2 inches long. The lower margin
of the blade may be almost straight and at right-angles to the stalk,
or not infrequently in small leaves the outline is triangular, the two
sides converging to the base: occasionally the lower margin has the
form of a double ogee curve. The upper edge is rounded, entire, ir-
regularly undulate, or bilobed. In some leaves, especially those on
vigorous young shoots, the blade is often dissected by V-shaped de-
pressions into four or more wedge-shaped segments. The deeply cut
leaves with several cuneate lobes are reminiscent of the foliage of
many extinct species. The range in size and shape of the foliage
of the living species adds considerably to the difficulty of deciding
whether or not certain fossil leaves should be regarded as specifically
identical with Ginkgo biloba, or indeed one with another. Accurate
comparison is impossible without the aid of supplementary evidence
from structural features. Forked veins radiate through the leaf from
the lower margin: the venation is very similar to that of the leaflets
of a maidenhair fern (Adiantum). Two strands of conducting tissue
pass from the stem up the leaf-stalk and branches from them form
the spreading and forked veins. Here and there between the veins
short tracts of secretory cells are easily recognizable as translucent
patches when a leaf is seen in transmitted light, or as dark patches
by reflected light. Similar secretory tracts are an almost constant
character in the fossil leaves.

The leaves are borne on two kinds of shoot: long shoots which grow
with relative rapidity and determine the shape of the tree; also short
and very slow-growing shoots. On long shoots the leaves are scattered
and spirally disposed, while on the short shoots about six or fewer
are borne as a cluster at the tip. The surface of a dwarf or short
shoot is covered with crowded scars left by leaves of past years.
Special attention is called to the short foliage-shoots because they

et
THE MAIDENHAIR TREE—SEWARD 443

are characteristic of many extinct members of the family; they are
similar to the dwarf shoots of larches and cedars (Cedrus), and to the
deciduous and smaller shoots of pines.

Male and female reproductive organs are borne on separate trees.
It is possible to obtain both kinds of “‘flower’’ on one tree by grafting
a female branch on to a male tree: this operation was successfully
performed some years ago on the large male tree at Kew. My friend,
the Rev. Prof. A. C. Moule of Cambridge, tells me that he discovered
a passage in an old Chinese book advising the planting of male and
female seeds close together in order to ensure fertilization at a later
stage. This implies an uncanny power of distinguishing male from
female even in the seeds. The male flowers—as it is convenient to
call the reproductive shoots—are loose catkins bearing on a slender
axis several short stamens, each of which has two or rarely three or even
four pollen-sacs. The female shoots are longer and larger, each
usually bearing a pair of ovules which develop into fleshy yellow seeds
as large as cherries. In the Far East the maidenhair tree is spoken
of as the silver apricot. Within the fleshy covering a hard shell, gen-
erally with a prominent median keel, encloses and protects the embryo
and the store of food prepared by parent for offspring. The kernel
(embryo and food) is eaten in China and Japan as a delicacy: the
outer flesh is nauseous.

Ginkgo, despite the difference in foliage, was formerly included
with the yew (Zarus) in the Taxineae, one of the families in another
group of naked-seeded trees, the conifers. About 40 years ago a
Japanese botanist, Hirase, discovered that the sperms are free-
swimming bodies of relatively gigantic size, provided with innumer-
able lashing cilia in marked contrast to the passive and microscopic-
ally minute male nuclei of conifers. In view of this fundamental
peculiarity, and having regard to other characters not found in coni-
fers, a new family and a new group, the Ginkgoales, were instituted
for this isolated, aberrant, and primitive genus of naked-seeded plants.
Thus Ginkgo came to be regarded as the single representative not
only of a genus and family but of a group of Gymnosperms. There
are many interesting points connected with the structure of the seed
and other technical questions which need not be discussed as they
have no direct bearing on the more general considerations with which
this article is concerned. Ginkgo resembles conifers in the main
structural features of the wood; it is indeed very difficult to decide
whether or not some examples of petrified fossil wood should be
assigned to the Ginkgo family or to the conifers.

THE PRESENT HOME OF GINKGO

Some botanists believe that the maidenhair tree is still living as a
wild tree in certain Chinese forests; others are definitely of opinion
444 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938

that it exists only in cultivation, the apparently wild trees being the
offspring of parents planted by man. One thing is certain: Ginkgo
has long been cultivated in China and Japan, and the oldest speci-
mens occur in the neighborhood of temples, so that it has sometimes
been regarded as a sacred tree. Seeds have doubtless been dispersed
by natural agency, producing trees at increasing distances from the
parents: it is therefore not always easy to distinguish cultivated from
wild specimens. English botanists and plant collectors who have trav-
eled extensively in China say that they failed to discover the tree in
forests remote from civilization. On the other hand, a few years
ago a Chinese botanist recorded the occurrence of Ginkgo biloba in
certain localities in the Chekiang province of eastern China: he
wrote—‘‘This tree is very common in Tienmu-Shan growing in associ-
ation with conifers and broad-leaved trees. It seems to grow spon-
taneously in that region.’”? An affirmative reply to the question, does
Ginkgo still exist in natural forests as a wild tree? cannot be given with
absolute certainty. It may still exist in places where man has played
no part, and that is as much as can be said without reservation.
There can be no doubt that China was the last, if it is not the present,
natural home of the maidenhair tree. It was brought to Europe in the
early part of the eighteenth century; to Utrecht about 1730, and to
England a little later: the tree is now fairly common in European
gardens, admired for its autumn coloring and the fernlike venation
of the leaves. There is, however, another attribute which entitles it
to our respect and protection: it is a remarkable and almost unique
example of the extraordinary conservation and vitality through mil-
lions of years of a member of the plant kingdom whose forbears were
forest trees ages before the birth of the human race, ages before the
existence of our familiar broad-leaved trees, and antedating almost the
whole of the mammals. In comparison with most impressive man-
made monuments, such as the step pyramid of Saqqara, which take
us back to the dawn of civilization, the records of plants preserved by
nature in the sands and muds of former ages speak to us of a past
beyond the power of human intelligence to appreciate. After read-
ing the following summary of the history of Ginkgo and its allies it
will be easier to appreciate the reasonableness of describing the maid-
enhair tree as one of the wonders of the world; it has persisted with
little change until the present through a long succession of ages when
the earth was inhabited by animals and plants for the most part far
removed, in kind as in time, from their living descendants. Ginkgo
is one of a small company of living plants which illustrates continuity
and exceptional power of enduranceinachanging world. Theginkgos
that grew in western and eastern forests 100 and 200 million years
ago were no doubt very similar in appearance to the species that alone
survives; they lived the same life, depending upon the light of the
THE MAIDENHAIR TREE—SEWARD 445

sun, the carbon-giving gas in the atmosphere, and the water in the
soil exactly as trees of the present day. When we reconstruct the
continents over which the forests spread and restore to life the con-
temporary companions of the old ginkgos, continuity gives place to
discontinuity; land where there is now water and water over regions
that are now land. As the wind spreads a kaleidoscopic pattern of
lights and shadows over the massed branches of the tree, we cannot
but be conscious of the contrast between the wind, that has blown
since the earth began, and the varying nature of the old-time forests—

’Tis the old wind in the old anger
But then it threshed another wood.

When we regard the earth’s surface in terms of the ordinary time-
scale it gives us an impression of stability: adopting the time-scale of
geologists we are able to measure the duration of earlier periods; as we
pass from one age to another we can follow the shifting boundaries of
continents and seas. With minds prepared by thoughts derived from
a geological retrospect Ginkgo becomes much more to us than a mere
tree; it speaks to us as an oracle recording in the trembling accents
of its fluttering leaves the varying fortunes of its race and wanderings
over the world’s surface as age succeeded age; it gives us glimpses of
the great procession of life and the building of the world in which we
live.
A NOTE ON THE NAME GINKGO

The name Ginkgo was coined by Kaempfer, who traveled widely in
the Far East, for a tree he first saw in Japan in 1690. In 1712 in his
book Amoenitates Exoticae, he spoke of the tree as ‘‘Ginkgo vel Gin
an, vulgé Itsjo, arbor nucifera folio Adianto,” and published an excel-
lent drawing of foliage-shoots and seeds. Linnaeus in 1771 adopted
Kaempfer’s generic name and called the plant Ginkgo biloba. In
obedience to the rules of nomenclature governing botanical usage this
is generally accepted. Twenty-six years later J. E. Smith proposed
to substitute the generic name Salisburia for the ‘equally uncouth
and barbarous” Ginkgo of Kaempfer; he also altered the specific name
biloba to adiantifolia. Smith’s proposal was made subsequent to the
date accepted as the starting-point of botanical nomenclature and
was therefore not adopted. The word Ginkgo, which The Times
newspaper, in recent correspondence on the tree, preferred to spell
‘Gingko, has been variously interpreted. In order to ascertain its true
meaning I consulted my friend, the Rev. Dr. A. C. Moule, professor
of Chinese at Cambridge, who at once became interested and spared
no pains to satisfy my curiosity. His extended researches have now
been summarized in a paper published in T’oung Pao, vol. 33, livr. 2
(E. J. Brill, Leiden).
446 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938

The word Gin in Chinese means “‘silver’”’ and Kaempfer thought
that Ginkgo meant silver apricot. Professor Moule points out
that there are no grounds for the termination kgo; the g cannot
be explained and may be a slip in transcription, or Ginkgo may
be a misprint for Sankyo, a word found by Professor Moule in one
of Kaempfer’s MSS. in the British Museum Library; it means hill
apricot. The list of Japanese names which Kaempfer thought he
was reproducing contains no such name as either Ginkyo or Ginkgo.
The latter, Professor Moule writes, “is unpronounceable and probably
ought never to have existed.’”’ But whatever the explanation of
“Ginkgo”? may be, the Japanese actually call the tree Icho (or Itsio)
and the fruit ginnan, and it is clear from Kaempfer’s MSS. that he
was well aware of this. For a full discussion of all the names readers
should consult the authoritative paper on ‘‘The name Ginkgo biloba”
in T’oung Pao (vol. 33, livr. 3).

[I am also indebted to Professor Moule for much interesting infor-
mation gathered from Chinese and Japanese writings and for notes
contributed by his counsin, the Rev. G. H. Moule. A name for
the maidenhair tree used by authors in the early Middle Ages is
duck’s foot: in the twelfth century, a Chinese poet spoke of “the
gold of the duck’s foot leaves,” referring to the autumn color of
the foliage. The Japanese believed that Ginkgo served as a protec-
tion against fire by exuding water when scorched: the Rey. G. H.
Moule writes that he has seen Ginkgo trees blackened by flames and
scarcely hurt while other trees were destroyed. The same writer
refers to the hanging roots on stems of old Ginkgo trees in Japan
which are said to symbolize women’s breasts: he speaks of a tree
at Sendai? which has been worshipped for more than a thousand
years by women suffering from lack of milk and any sickness of the
breasts. ]

THE PAST HISTORY OF GINKGO

Let us first examine the nature of the evidence which enables us
partially to reconstruct the past history of Ginkgo and other mem-
bers of the Ginkgoalean group. Incomplete and fragmentary as
it is, there is material enough to provide the outline of a fascinating
story. It is fortunate that the leaves of Ginkgo can as a rule be
recognized in a fossil state without much difficulty or danger of
confusion with the foliage of other plants. Leaves are the chief
source of our knowledge: seeds and other remains are rare and
supply little more than confirmatory evidence. Form and vena-
tion and, whenever possible, the minute structure of the surface
layers of leaves furnish the necessary data. A fossil leaf may agree
very closely in shape and venation with leaves of the living plant;

1 For a photograph of the Sendai tree, see A. C. Seward, Plant life through the ages, p. 521, fig. 135
THE MAIDENHAIR TREE—SEWARD 447

but that in itself is not proof of specific identity. Fortunately,
many fossils are not mere impressions on shale and sandstone—
ghosts without substance; they are often covered with a black or
brown film which is all that remains of the tissues. This film repre-
sents the altered or carbonized remains of the leaf substance: its
surface is the resistant cuticular skin which covered the epidermal
layer of the living leaf. The film can often be detached from the
rock, or it may peel off naturally. By treatment with appropriate
reagents it is rendered less opaque and becomes amenable to micro-
scopical examination, revealing the cell-pattern of the epidermal
layer, including the minute and vitally important stomata. The
stomatal apparatus, which regulates gaseous exchange between the
plant and the atmosphere, serving also as an exit for water vapor,
has a characteristic structure of great value in distinguishing one
genus or family from another. Focusing below the surface of the
film one can sometimes see the remains of underlying tissue, crushed
and contracted, and readily detect the presence of secretory cells
still containing dark patches of the original products of secretion.
Thus valuable evidence is obtained enabling us to compare in detail
the surface layer and some of the deeper tissues with the correspond-
ing structures in fresh leaves. By the use of modern methods of
technique it has been possible to correct conclusions based solely on
external form. Botanists concerned only with living plants natur-
ally and very properly attach the greatest importance to reproduc-
tive organs as criteria of relationship. The paleobotanist is in a
much less favorable position; he hardly ever finds fossil leaves and
flowers preserved together, and indeed flowers are seldom available;
he has, therefore, been compelled to make the best use he can of
leaves, and has studied them intensively. In rare instances it is
possible to examine not only the surface layer of fossil leaves but
the structure of all the tissues: leaves and other parts of plants
occasionally occur as petrifactions, preserved in amazing perfection.
Petrified leaves are abundant in the calcareous nodules of coal seams
(Carboniferous period), but in rocks belonging to periods in which
the Ginkgo family flourished they are exceedingly rare. One of the
few examples of Ginkgoalean foliage preserved in this way is men-
tioned on a later page.

Nearly 30 years ago the writer suggested the employment of the
generic name Ginkgoites in place of Ginkgo for fossil leaves which
through lack of evidence cannot be regarded as generically identical
with Ginkgo biloba. Fossil leaves closely resembling the foliage of
the maidenhair tree may have belonged to a tree having male and
female flowers which differed in some important respects from those
of the surviving species. Paleobotany is not an exact science: the
documents which the student endeavors to decipher provide only
448 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938

scraps of information, and it is desirable that this lack of precision
and paucity of evidence should be implied by the terminology which
a paleobotanist employs. If he has sufficient evidence to justify him
in assigning fossil leaves to the genus which includes Ginkgo biloba,
well and good; if he has no such evidence, then he admits the lack
of certainty by adopting the name Ginkgoites. It is, however, im-
possible in some instances to make a satisfactory choice between the
alternative generic names. For present purposes it is not worth
while to discuss tiresome though unavoidable questions of nomen-
clature: for the sake of simplicity, rather than in accordance with
strictly scientific considerations, the generic designation Ginkgo is
adopted in the following account of fossil leaves believed to belong
to trees which, if now living, would either be referred to Ginkgo or to
a separate and very closely related genus of the same family.

FOSSIL LEAVES

The periods of geological history with which we are concerned are

arranged as follows:

Recent.

Quaternary.
Pliocene stage.
Miocene stage.
Oligocene stage.
Eocene stage.

Cretaceous.

Jurassic.

Rhetic.

Triassic.

Permian.

Carboniferous.
As already stated, it is not absolutely certain, though by no means
improbable, that the maidenhair tree still exists as a wild tree: there
can be no doubt of its natural occurrence in Far Eastern forests
within the limits of the Recent period. Passing to the Quaternary
period, to a time separated from the present by many thousand years,
there is a record of the discovery of Ginkgo leaves by the Russian
paleobotanist, Kryshtofovich, at a locality on the Bureya River in
northeastern Siberia (approximately 50° N. lat.): good photographs
of the fossils have not been seen. Descending the geological scale
the next records are from Pliocene plant beds in France and Germany.
Well-preserved leaves were found near Frankfort on the Main very
similar in form and venation to the leaves of Ginkgo biloba, agreeing
also in the structure of the epidermal layer, though not identical in
certain details. Other examples from the Pliocene stage have been
described from the Rhone Valley, where forests formerly fringed the

Tertiary
THE MAIDENHAIR TREE—SEWARD 449

shores of a large gulf occupying the site of the southern part of the
present river’s course. These fossil leaves, superficially indistinguish-
able from the foliage of the living tree, with many others from Tertiary
rocks, are usually spoken of as Ginkgo adiantoides. Specimens have
been obtained from rocks belonging to all stages of the Tertiary era,
particularly from the earlier or Eocene strata. Some of the most
beautifully preserved leaves are from the Island of Mull, where they
were collected many years ago from sedimentary deposits associated
with the horizontal sheets of basalt which give the characteristic
terraced profile to some of the Inner Hebrides. In the early days of
the Tertiary period, subsequent to the upheaval of the floor of the
Cretaceous sea, volcanic forces, which had long been dormant, broke
out into activity on a stupendous scale: through fissures in the
earth’s crust and from volcanoes sheets of lava spread over an enor-
mous area including northeast Ireland, the Inner Hebrides, the
Farées, Greenland, and other arctic regions. The columnar basalts
of the Giant’s Causeway in northern Ireland and Fingal’s Cave in the
island of Staffa belong to this Tertiary lava-field. The occasional
occurrence of water-borne sedimentary material intercalated among
the sheets of lava, as in the Island of Mull at Ardtun Head on the
southwest coast, bears witness to periods of quiescence during which
forests were able to colonize the lava-fields. Ginkgo was one of the
forest trees. The leaves were first described by the late Mr. Starkie
Gardner about 50 years ago, who spoke of them as indistinguishable
from those of the living tree. Realizing that plants as old as the
Eocene stage of the Tertiary period—a stage separated from the
present by perhaps 80 million years—were probably not specifically
identical with those of the present day, he referred the Mull fossils
to the Tertiary species Ginkgo adiantoides. A recent examination of
the epidermal cells of the Mull leaves by Dr. Florin of Stockholm
revealed certain peculiarities which led him to rename the species
G. gardneri. We do not know anything of the ‘flowers’ of this
species; but it is safe to assert that the Mull tree was very closely
allied to G. biloba.

Since the discovery of fossil Ginkgo leaves in Tertiary rocks of
northern Italy, nearly a hundred years ago, numerous specimens
from Eocene and later rocks have been described from widely separated
localities in arctic and temperate regions. The significant fact that
emerges from a review of the evidence furnished by rocks of the
Tertiary period is that species of Ginkgo, how many we do not know,
had a far-flung geographical range: the genus was represented in
forests from the Pacific coast of North America to Alaska and arctic
Canada; in western and eastern Greenland as far north as latitude
74°, where leaves have been found in Tertiary rocks of Sabine Island.
With many other trees Ginkgo flourished in Spitsbergen, in the forests
450 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938

of Siberia and as far east as the western shores of the Pacific Ocean.
Its territory was spread over wide tracts in both the Old and the New
World, mainly in the Northern Hemisphere. It is, however, sig-
nificant that in 1935 Prof. E. W. Berry, of Johns Hopkins University,
recorded the discovery of Tertiary Ginkgo leaves in Patagonia. This
fact affords impressive proof of the enormous distance over which
Ginkgo trees had been dispersed. Tertiary records are not all from
rocks of the same geological age; most of them are from the Lower
Tertiary, the Eocene stage; some from Miocene and Oligocene rocks
and a smaller number from the uppermost, or Pliocene stage, of the
period. As the ages of the Tertiary period passed, the geographical
range of the genus became more restricted until, so far as we know,
only a single species remained when the Recent period began.

There is no clearly marked difference in the position occupied by
the genus in the living garment of the Cretaceous earth; it was very
abundant as far back as the older Cretaceous floras. The chief
difference is that as we descend from the Tertiary to older periods we
find a gradual increase in the number of other genera of the Ginkgo
family. Confining attention for the moment to Ginkgo, it is interest-
ing to find in rocks corresponding in age to the sediments deposited
in the great Wealden lake of southern England, northern France,
Belgium, and northern Germany leaves very similar in external
characters to those of the maidenhair tree. Such have been dis-
covered in Lower Cretaceous strata in Alaska, western Greenland,
Franz Josef Land, northwest Germany, northern France, and else-
where. Fossils gathered from the sedimentary beds of the still more
ancient Jurassic period at many localities in both hemispheres demon-
strate an almost world-wide distribution of Ginkgo. Some of the
leaves from the Jurassic rocks near Scarborough bear a striking re-
semblance in size, shape, and venation to the modern type of foliage
and differ only in comparatively minor structural characters. With-
out discussing precise correlation of plant-bearing beds within the
long period embraced by the Jurassic system with its several subdivi-
sions, it can be said with confidence that Ginkgo had by that time
reached its maximum in abundance and geographical range. There
were Ginkgo trees in Jurassic Australia, New Zealand, Afghanistan,
Turkestan, Siberia, many parts of China, also in Japan and Korea.
It grew in southern Russia, in Sardinia, and throughout Europe; it
had wandered as far west as Oregon on the Pacific coast. A few
specimens from Jurassic rocks of India have been assigned to Ginkgo,
but these are less satisfactory as records than those from other regions.
It is noteworthy that neither Ginkgo nor any other member of the
family has been found in the rich Jurassic flora described some years
ago from Grahamland, which members of the recent Grahamland
expedition have proved to be a peninsula of the Antarctic continent

THE MAIDENHAIR TREE—-SEWARD 451

and not an island as previously supposed. The flora of Grahamland
is exceptional among floras of the Jurassic age in the lack of any
members of the Ginkgo group.

Many floras have been described from Greenland, southern Sweden,
Germany, Poland, Indo-China, South Africa, and Australia as Rhetic
in age: the rocks so called are intermediate in geological position
between the Jurassic and the preceding Triassic period; some cor-
respond more closely with rocks of the Lias stage at the base of the
Jurassic; some are closer in age to the upper members of the Triassic
system. One of the oldest leaves, which it is permissible to speak of
as a species of Ginkgo, is from RKhetic rocks in southern Sweden: it
agrees in the main with the modern leaves both in epidermal structure
and in venation. Leaves apparently representing four species have
been described from an Upper Triassic flora in South Africa; this is
one of many indications of the abundance of trees having foliage
constructed on the Ginkgo plan at a stage in the history of the earth
when strange reptilian animals were the lords of creation. One of
the South African species is almost identical in shape, size, and
venation with leaves previously described from rocks of approximately
the same age in Virginia. The leaves had a lamina partially divided
into linear segments varying in size and reaching nearly 1 foot in
breadth. The same species has been found in Upper Triassic rocks
of Queensland. The exceptionally rich flora described in a series of
remarkable papers by Professor Harris of Reading from material he
collected, 1926-27, in the Scoresby Sound district (slightly north of
lat. 70° N.) on the east coast of Greenland includes at least six species
of Ginkgo. Some of the leaves bear a close resemblance to the
maidenhair foliage not only in shape and venation but in the occur-
rence of secretory sacs. One of the species is peculiar in having
leaves dissected into four lobes with toothed upper margins, a very
unusual character. It is certain that trees with various forms of
leaf more or less similar in plan to those of the maidenhair tree lived
in the latter part of the Triassic period in South Africa, Argentina,
Queensland, and the Northern Hemisphere. It is important to
remember that the name Ginkgo has been used in the foregoing account
for some leaves which should, strictly speaking, be assigned to Gink-
goites. This brief and incomplete review of fossil leaves of many
ages and from many parts of the world is sufficient to justify the
statement that the existing species is the last of a long line of prede-
cessors reaching back to the latter part of the Triassic period, a stage
in geological history at least 150 million years ago.

Having followed the story so far it is natural to ask how much
farther into the past has the history of Ginkgo been traced? As-
suming, as we do, that this generic type did not suddenly appear as

1147283920
452 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938

a novelty in the plant kingdom, where did it come from and of what
sort were its ancestors? Such questions as these are ever present
in the thoughts and speculations of the curious people who search
for origins among the scanty and often illegible documents scattered
through the rocks in the course of geological history. As we follow
a group, a family, or a genus through the pile of sedimentary rocks
we reach at length the earliest records, and though it may seem that
the quest is ended, there always remains doubt and uncertainty
whether the lack of still older fossils may be due to imperfection
of the record. It was only in exceptional circumstances that samples
from nature’s garden were preserved in the herbaria of the rocks.
As we pass from rocks containing the most ancient fossils that can
be regarded with confidence as undoubted allies of the maidenhair
tree to rocks older still, we discover fossil leaves which may or may
not be the foliage of trees of the same lineage. Leaves from Permian
and Carboniferous strata described under various names, Gink-
gophyllum, Psygmophyllum, and others, though similar in form to
those of Ginkgo, do not afford definite evidence of real affinity. The
most promising of the Paleozoic genera is known as Saportaea, called
after a French paleobotanist, the late Marquis of Saporta, a genus
founded on leaves first discovered in Permian rocks of Virginia and
more recently in central China: this genus may be allied to Ginkgo;
but that is as far as one can go. The ancestral stock may be recognized
some day in the petrified litter of the coal period forests; but as yet
we can only guess whence the Ginkgo group came. We must for the
present be content with the knowledge that trees of the Ginkgo type
had risen to prominence before the close of the Triassic period and
continued to flourish and occupy fresh territory in the course of the
Jurassic period: they held their own in the Cretaceous period and in
the earlier stages of the Tertiary era, but as the Quaternary age dawned
comparatively few examples remained.

PART i

OTHER MEMBERS OF THE GINKGO FAMILY

Each of the families to which botanists have assigned the higher
plants, both Angiosperms and Gymnosperms, usually contains
several genera differing, it may be, widely in appearance and yet
possessing certain features in common believed to be indicative of
close relationship. It is generally agreed that such trees as larches,
cedars, firs, and pines are all members of one family which in the
course of time have deviated in their several ways from some ancestral
prototype. These genera are believed to be closely related one to
another because they possess in common certain features, especially
those exhibited by the fertile shoots, which suggest descent from a
THE MAIDENHAIR TREE—SEWARD 453

single ancestral stock. In attempting to classify fossil plants on a
basis of natural affinity we have in most instances to use vegetative
characters alone; and this is the method followed in the comparison
of leaves of extinct plants with the foliage of recent species. There
are very few families of plants represented in present-day floras to
which only a single genus is allotted. Ginkgo is one of the few living
genera which has a family and indeed a whole group to itself. It
stands alone with no near relatives: if nothing were known of its
past history it would no doubt be regarded as an old type because of
the possession of certain primitive traits. Search among the debris
of forests embedded in the rocks has demonstrated that the genus was
formerly one of several distinguished by characters indicative of com-
munity of descent. In order to illustrate this aspect of the present
historical enquiry it is necessary to devote a few pages to a sketch of
the main results of paleobotanical research into the family history of
Ginkgo, without going into technical detail.

The first genus to be considered is one known as Baiera: this name
(after J. J. Baier, an early eighteenth-century German writer on
fossils and minerals) was given as long ago as 1843 to leaves found
near Bayreuth in Rhetic or Lower Jurassic rocks. In outline the
leaves of Baiera are fan-shaped or triangular as in Ginkgo, but the
lamina is more deeply divided into linear segments, few or many in
number. It is not always possible to draw a satisfactory line be-
tween Baiera and Ginkgo from the form of the lamina alone. The
leaves of Ginkgo biloba and those of extinct species have a fairly long
and well-defined stalk: in those assigned to Baiera the leaf-blade
is attached directly to the branch by a narrow, tapered base and
lacks a leaf-stalk. In a typical Bavera leaf the blade is cut by deep
V-shaped sinuses into narrow, linear lobes or segments, each of which
is supplied with a few parallel and occasionally forked veins. Some
species bore the leaves in tufts on very short shoots; in others the
leaves were attached singly as in the long shoots of Ginkgo. It
may be that some Baieras had both long and short shoots. In the
structure of its epidermal cells, including the stomatal apparatus,
Baiera is near enough to Ginkgo to be included in the same family.
No undoubted example of Baiera has been found either in Tertiary
rocks or in those belonging to the later stages of the Cretaceous
period. A few species are recorded from the earlier Cretaceous beds,
but some at least of these might more appropriately be assigned to
Ginkgo. The genus was abundantly represented in both Jurassic
and Rhetic floras and in many parts of the world, reaching as far
north as lat. 70° N. in East Greenland. Some unusually large leaves
have been described from Upper Triassic beds in North America,
South Africa, and Australia. The oldest leaves believed to be ex-
amples of the genus are from Permian rocks. There is no doubt
454 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938

that Baiera was a companion of Ginkgo in Jurassic and Triassic forests
and had a wide geographical range. Its reproductive organs, so far
as we know, conformed in essentials to the Ginkgo plan.

Another genus is Ginkgodium, characterized by leaves similar
in venation to those of Ginkgo but narrower and rather different
in shape: leaves of this generic type are comparatively rare; they
were first described from Jurassic rocks in Japan nearly 50 years
ago, and, later, recorded from Jurassic rocks in southern Russia.
Nothing is known of the structure of Ginkgodium, and for that reason
the genus is of secondary importance. In 1913 Dr. Hamshaw Thomas
discovered a new type of fossil in a Jurassic plant bed in western
Yorkshire, to which he gave the generic name Hretmophyllum. The
leaves, 4 or 5 inches in length, are in shape like a rather narrow-
bladed paddle, hence the name, from the Greek word eretmon=oar or
paddle. The lamina has several parallel veins and resin sacs; the
structure of the superficial layer is consistent with close affinity to
Ginkgo. Other examples of the genus are recorded from Jurassic
rocks in southern Russia, Afghanistan, and Sardinia. Despite the
lack of reproductive organs it is generally believed that the leaves
known as Ginkgodium and Eretmophyllum may be safely included in
the Ginkgo group.

We now come to some genera which differ more widely in form
from those of the living maidenhair tree but are confidently accepted
as allies that have long been extinct. The name Phoenicopsis (from
the Greek Phoinikeios=of the date or palm tree) is applied to leaves
comparable in shape to pieces of ribbon a few inches long and varying
from half an inch to rather more or less in breadth; the veins are
approximately parallel and occasionally forked. A characteristic
feature of this and certain other genera is the occurrence of leaves
in a crowded bunch on a very short shoot which is clasped and hidden
by tiny overlapping scales: the scales protected the shoot when it was
a bud and as the bud expanded they persisted at the base of the leaf
cluster. Phoenicopsis leaves have been described under several
specific names and from many parts of the world: Siberia, Afghanistan,
Turkestan, China, Japan, Spitsbergen, southern Sweden, Greenland,
numerous European localities, including Great Britain, and else-
where. The genus was very widely spread in Jurassic floras and it
was also a member of Rhetic and early Cretaceous floras; it probably
existed as far back in the geological time scale as the Permian period.
It has been possible to investigate the epidermal structure of several
species of Phoenicopsis and the facts thus obtained confirm the opinion
of Oswald Heer, who in 1876 was the first paleobotanist to describe
this old type of Ginkgoalean foliage. The very short branches, each
bearing a tuft of six or more grasslike leaves, may be compared on a

a a —
THE MAIDENHAIR TREE—SEWARD 455

small scale with the short shoots of the maidenhair tree on which a
cluster of stalked leaves is borne at the apex. There is, however, this
difference: in Ginkgo the short branch persists from year to year
and bears fresh leaves each season: in Phoenicopsis the dwarf foliage-
shoot was probably shed every autumn or after a year or two; at all
events, it bore only one set of leaves. Comparison may also be
made with the dwarf shoots of pines with two, three, or five needles;
the chief difference is that the leaves of Phoenicopsis are broader and
flat, and the structure of the epidermal layer is of another type.
It has been customary to assign to this genus fossil leaves having a
certain form and venation and borne in clusters, even though the
material does not furnish any information on microscopical charac-
ters. Dr. Florin, of Stockholm, has recently described a number of
leaves from Lower Cretaceous rocks associated with the basaltic
lavas of the now treeless Franz Josef Land (lat. 80° N.) which, owing
to their exceptional preservation, it was possible to examine in detail
and elucidate their anatomical structure. He found that some
leaves, though externally agreeing with Phoenicopsis, were sufficiently
distinct in structure to be recognized as different genera. One of
the new genera is Stephenophyllum, named after Cape Stephen on
the south coast of Franz Josef Land, where the specimens were dis-
covered. Seven narrow, straplike leaves are borne on a diminutive
axis surrounded at the base of the dwarf shoot by persistent bud-
scales. In appearance the foliage-shoot closely resembles a Phoeni-
copsis, but distinctive anatomical features are believed to justify the
institution of a new generic name. Another genus, Windwardia,
named after the ship Windward, chartered by the Jackson-Harmsworth
Expedition of 1896, whose members collected the material, bore
dwarf, deciduous shoots, each with five or seven linear leaves about 5
inches long, distinguished from those of other Ginkgoalean trees by
the absence of secretory ducts and by a few other anatomical pecu-
liarities. A third genus instituted by Florin is Culgoweria, a Scottish
type, so called after Culgower in Sutherland, a locality from which a
collection of Upper Jurassic plants, made by the late Dr. Marcus
Gunn, was described by myself in 1911. Leaves that were originally
assigned to Phoenicopsis on the ground of external resemblance have
now been examined microscopically and found to differ in certain
structural features from other members of the family.

Dr. Florin’s intensive study of the Franz Josef Land material
led to the discovery of two more genera in this arctic flora, Spheno-
bavera and Arctobaiera, both of which, as the names imply, are similar
in the external characters of the foliage to Baiera. Arctobaiera is
characterized by deeply divided tongue-shaped leaves borne in a

§ A short account of Dr. Florin’s admirable contribution was published in Nature, May 1, 1937.
456 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938

tuft and not singly: Sphenobaiera, a genus founded on a piece of
leaf, is distinguished by a greater degree of lobing: both show dis-
tinctive anatomical characters. Whether or not the Franz Josef
Land leaves are all worthy of generic rather than specific status, it
is clear from Dr. Florin’s careful and illuminating researches that
they furnish convincing evidence of a greater range in structural
details within the Ginkgo alliance than was previously suspected.
The main point is that there were several trees in the Jurassic and
early Cretaceous forests with foliage-shoots superficially very much
alike, but differing one from another in certain external and internal
features; all agree more closely with Ginkgo than with any other
living plant. It is noteworthy that Florin’s genus Sphenobaiera has
been recognized by Professor Harris as one of several members of
the Ginkgoalean group in the Lower Jurassic-Rhetic flora of East
Greenland.

Reference has already been made to the amazingly rich flora
first discovered by Dr. Hartz, of Copenhagen, in Rhetic strata at
Scoresby Sound in East Greenland and more recently investigated
with great thoroughness by Professor Harris, who collected a large
amount of new material. The flora included many representatives
of the Ginkgo family, new species of genera previously recorded
from other regions and, in addition, a new type to which the name
Hartzia has been given. This genus, like many of the others, bore
its long and relatively narrow leaves in groups on dwarf shoots,
but the lamina of each leaf had a forked tip. The stomata differ
in arrangement and structure from those of Phoenscopsis.

Torellia.—This generic name, after Professor Torell, a geologist,
was given nearly 60 years ago to leaves discovered by Captain
Feilden, a member of the Alert and Discovery arctic expedition
(1875-76) in early Tertiary rocks in Grinnell Land (81° 46’) and
subsequently recorded from Spitsbergen. The leaves of Torellia
may be compared with broad and stiff blades of grass 2 or 3 inches
long, furnished with several parallel veins, tapering to a narrow
base and rounded at the tip. In some forms the blade is sickle-
shaped. Torellia has since been found in Cretaceous rocks of Ussuri-
land in eastern Siberia. The genus was in existence as long ago as
the Rhetic period in the forests of East Greenland. It is note-
worthy that Dr. Florin, after examining the structure of Torellia
leaves from Spitsbergen, decided to remove them to a new genus,
Pseudotorellia, because of certain distinctive characters.

Ozekanowskia.—In 1876, Professor Heer of Ziirich described some
very narrow, almost hairlike leaves from Jurassic rocks in Siberia,
which he named Czekanowskia, after the geologist Czekanowski, and
referred to the Ginkgo family. Data subsequently obtained con-
firm Heer’s estimate of affinity. The leaves were attached to a
THE MAIDENHAIR TREE—SEWARD 457

very short, scale-covered axis and borne in a cluster, resembling
the bunch of leaves of a five-needled pine: each leaf has two or more
veins forked once or more. Several species of Czekanowskia are
known from Jurassic rocks in arctic regions, Europe, and Asia. In
epidermal characters the leaves conform more closely to the Ginkgo
pattern than to that of any other surviving Gymnosperm.

Nothing has been written in this article on seeds or other repro-
ductive organs associated with Ginkgoalean leaves in widely scat-
tered parts of the world and in rocks of many ages: this is not be-
cause they are unimportant; they are of the greatest value to the
paleobotanist. The reason is that it is seldom possible to connect
together leaves and reproductive organs, owing to the fact that they
are preserved in the sediments of estuaries and lakes as separate
scraps which fell from the parent trees and were carried by rivers to
their resting-place. It is, however, important to note that the re-
mains of such reproductive organs as it has been possible to examine
with any degree of thoroughness, furnish valuable data supplementary
to evidence of affinity obtained from foliage-shoots.

THE WORLD-WIDE WANDERING OF GINKGO AND ITS ALLIES

A survey of the voluminous publications in which are recorded
discoveries of fossil plants referred on good evidence to the Ginkgo
alliance demonstrates the extraordinary vitality and resiliency of
the genera and their success as travelers over wide spaces. It would
extend this sketch far beyond reasonable limits were reference
made to all the species and the places where they have been found.
It is also impossible in a general summary to make comparison of the
distributional areas of the several genera. The black dots on the
map (fig. 1) indicate localities where members of the family have
been found in rocks ranging from Triassic to the end of the Ter-
tiary period. Though by no means a complete record, the map
serves to illustrate the light thrown by paleobotanical data on the
wandering of these Ginkgoalean trees never seen in life by man
and known only as fragments preserved in the rocks. The tenacity
with which a single member of this once vigorous group held on
to life through the ages has enabled us to read the story of its ancestry.

CONCLUSION

In the foregoing pages my purpose has been to present the more
important results of research into the history of the Ginkgo family.
Ginkgo biloba, the maidenhair tree, is worthy of special regard as one
of the most impressive examples in the plant kingdom of a link with
remote ages and as the sole representative in the modern world of a
family, which millions of years ago occupied as prominent a place in
458 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938

the vegetation of the world as that now held by the oaks and other
familiar forest trees included in the oak family. Omitting any further
reference to the Paleozoic fossils, mentioned on a previous page as
possible though doubtful members of the Ginkgoalean stock, the main
historical conclusions may be summarized as follows (see fig. 2).

As the Triassic period drew to its close more than 150 million years
ago, the surface of the earth bore little or no resemblance to that with
which we are familiar. At that stage in geological history and during
many million years that followed, the distribution of land and water,
mountains, valleys, and plains, animal and plant communities, and
climatic conditions reflected in their gradual transformation the cycles
of physical and organic evolution. Even in the Triassic period there
were a few plants foreshadowing more or less clearly trees that are

FIGURE 1.—Map of the distribution of Ginkgo and allied genera in former periods of geological history.
The area within which Ginkgo may still exist as a wild tree is shown by the circle below 30° N. lat. on
the eastern edge of China. The records on which the map is based are from the Triassic to the Quaternary
period.

still living. Conspicuous in this small company were representatives

of the Ginkgoalean family, notably Baiera and Ginkgo. Passing up-

ward to the Jurassic period we find other genera added to the growing
family, genera which established themselves over a vast extent of
territory both north and south of the Equator. It was at this stage
in the history of the earth that Ginkgo, Baiera, Phoenicopsis, Czeka-
nowskia and other genera reached their greatest development as
measured by the number of species and geographical range. As the

Jurassic period merged into the Cretaceous, the balance of nature was

not seriously disturbed: many genera survived the change. But the

Ginkgoalean race had passed its zenith. There followed a much more

drastic physical revolution when the Cretaceous sea, in which the

material of our chalk downs was made from the calcareous skeletons of
marine creatures, flooded vast continental areas—a revolution which
had a far-reaching effect upon contemporary life.
THE MAIDENHAIR TREE—SEWARD 459

When the floor of the Cretaceous sea had been raised into land
and the calcareous ooze of the ocean was converted into hills of
chalk, the plant world assumed a much more modern aspect. In
the Tertiary floras preserved in sedimentary deposits of post Cre-
taceous age Ginkgo was almost, though not quite, the sole survivor
or the family; it was still a vigorous and widely dispersed tree in

12 R J C T Q-R
Ginkgo
Baiera
Ginkgodium
Eretmophyllum
Torellia
Pseudotorellia
Phoenicopsis
Czekanowshia
Hartzia

Culgoweria
Stephenophyllurm
Windwardia
Sphenobaiera
Arctobaiera

FiGureE 2.—Diagram illustrating the approximate distribution in time of genera of the Ginkgoales.

P—Q—R=Permian, Triassic, Rhetic, Jurassic, Cretaceous, Tertiary, Quaternary and Kecent periods.
The relative antiquity of the Ginkgoales and the human race is indicated by the black time scale. Accord-
ing to the late Prof. Elliot Smith (Human History) man ‘‘must have been alive during the Pliocene stage.”
Prof. A. Holmes (The Age of the Earth) gives the date of the Triassic period as 180 million years. The
name Ginkgo is used in a wide sense, including some species which should be assigned to Ginkgoites. It
is important to note that the genera Stephenophyllwm and others shown in the Table as Lower Cretaceous
were founded on exceptionally well-preserved fossils from Franz Josef Land; in all probability, were
equally good material available from other places, they would be found to have had a much greater range
in time and in space. The diagram is not drawn to scale except that the Rhetie period, transitional
between the Triassic and Jurassic, is shown as a shorter phase of geological history.

American, Arctic, European, and Asiatic forests. Even as late as the
last, or Pliocene, stage of the Tertiary period Ginkgo still lingered on in
Europe. Itis probable that the genus was unable to endure the severe
arctic conditions which swept over an enormous area in the Old and the
New World when the genial climate of the Tertiary age was followed
by a glacial phase. Ginkgo lived on in the Quaternary period, the
460 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938

sole relic of a race threatened with extinction. Driven hither and
thither by adverse circumstances, this symbol of departed glory
eventually found a refuge in the Far East. It was not until the family
had been reduced to a few species and a single genus that man came
into the world, and in a later stage of his development assisted nature
by his care of one of her oldest treasures.

Ginkgo has for centuries appealed to the imagination of the Oriental
mind: the tree with leaves like golden ducks’ feet became an object of
veneration; a legacy, it might be, from a golden age and as such posses-
sing miraculous power. We, despite our more matter-of-fact western
outlook, pay homage to the sacred tree of the East because its story,
written in the sands of time, gives us a vision of enduring life. The
maidenhair tree appeals to the historic soul: we see it as an emblem of
changelessness, a heritage from worlds of an age too remote for our
human intelligence to grasp, a tree which has in its keeping

The secrets of the immeasurable past.
THE WATER-CULTURE METHOD FOR GROWING PLANTS
WITHOUT SOrL*

By D. R. Hoaeuanp and D. I. Arnon
California Agricultural Experiment Station

{With seven plates}
INTRODUCTION

During the past few years, the popular press has given an immense
amount of publicity to the subject of commercial or amateur growing
of crops in ‘‘water culture;” that is, growing plants with their roots in
a solution containing the mineral nutrients essential for plant growth.
The solution takes the place of soil in supplying water and mineral
nutrients to the plant. This method of growing plants is also de-
scribed under such names as “‘tray agriculture,” “tank farming,” and
the recently coined term, ‘‘hydroponics.”’ Often, popular accounts of
recent experiments on growing plants by the water-culture method
leave the reader with the impression that a new discovery has been
made which bids fair to revolutionize our present methods of crop
production, and indeed promises to produce in the future far-reaching
social dislocations by dispensing with the soil as a medium for growing
many crops.

Frequently, wholly unfounded claims have been made by promoters
that a new “profession of soilless farming’”’ has been developed which
offers extraordinary opportunities for investment of time and funds.
Attempts have been made to convince the public that a short course
of training will give preparation for entering this new “profession.”
The impression has been given also that the water-culture method
offers an easy means of raising food for household use.

Some of the popular articles on the water-culture method of crop
production are grossly inaccurate in fact and misleading in implica-
tion. Widely circulated rumors, claims, and predictions about the
water-culture production of crops often have little more to commend
them than the author’s unrestrained imagination. Erroneous and

1 This article has also been published as a circular of the California Agricultural Experiment Station.
It was originally prepared at the request of the director of this station for the purpose of presenting an inde-

pendent appraisal of the water-culture method in the light of recent discussion. Here printed by permission
of the California Agricultural Experiment Station.
461
462 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938

even fantastic ideas have been conceived, betraying a lack of knowl-
edge of elementary principles of plant physiology. For example,
there have been statements that in the future most of the food needed
by the occupants of a great apartment building may be grown on the
roof, and that in large cities ‘‘skyscraper’’ farms may supply huge
quantities of fresh fruit and vegetables. One Sunday supplement
article contained an illustration showing a housewife opening a small
closet off the kitchen and picking tomatoes from vines growing in
water culture, with the aid of electric lights. There has even arisen
a rumor that the restaurants of a large chain in New York City are
growing their vegetables in basements.

Stories of this kind have gained wide currency and have captured
the imagination of many persons. Many factors have doubtless con-
tributed to arousing the surprisingly wide interest in the water-
culture method of crop production. The psychological effect of
current discussion of the wastage of soil erosion and soil depletion
has made the public especially receptive to new ideas relating to crop
production. Some people have been impressed by the assumed
social and economic significance of the water-culture method. Others,
moved by the common delight of mankind in growing plants, even
though the garden space is reduced to a window sill, have sought
directions to enable them to try a novel technique of plant culture.
The consequence of the discussion of this method has been the creation
of a great public demand for more specific information. Should this
newly aroused interest in plant growth lead to a greater diffusion of
knowledge of certain general principles of plant physiology, the
publicity regarding the water-culture method of crop production
might in the long run have a beneficial effect. Growing plants in
water culture has been considered by some popular writers as a “‘mar-
vel of science.’”’ The growth of plants is indeed marvelous, but not
more so when plants are grown in water culture than when they are
grown in soil.

Sometimes two entirely distinct lines of investigation at the Cali-
fornia Agricultural Experiment Station, in which the water-culture
technique is used, have been confused in popular discussions. One of
these concerns methods of growing plants in water culture under
natural light, the other the study of special scientific problems of
plant growth in controlled chambers artificially illuminated. It is
economically impossible at the present time to grow crops commercially
solely under artificial illumination, even if there were any reason for
doing so. At several other institutions considerable attention has
been devoted to study of the effect of supplementing daylight with
artificial light during some seasons of the year, to control the flowering
period or to accelerate growth of certain kinds of plants (particularly
floral plants) in greenhouses, but this practice has mainly been applied
WATER-CULTURE METHOD—HOAGLAND AND ARNON 463

so far to plants developed in soil and has no essential relation to the
water-culture method of growing plants.

HISTORICAL SKETCH OF THE DEVELOPMENT OF THE WATER-
CULTURE METHOD

Curiously enough, the earliest recorded experiment with water
cultures was carried out in search of a spurious “principle of vegeta-
tion”? in a day when the general ignorance of the principles of plant
nutrition seemingly precluded the undertaking of a profitable experi-
ment. Woodward, about 1699, grew spearmint in several kinds of
water: rain, river, and conduit water to which he in one case added
garden mold. He found that the greatest increase in the weight of
the plant took place in the water containing the greatest admixture
of soil. His conclusion was, “That earth, and not water, is the matter
that constitutes vegetables.”

The real development of the technique of water culture took place
about three-quarters of a century ago and came as a logical result of
the crystallization of the modern concepts of plant nutrition. By
the middle of the nineteenth century, enough of the fundamental
facts of plant physiology had been accumulated and properly evaluated
to enable the botanists and chemists of that period to assign correctly
to the soil the role which it plays in the nutrition of plants. They
realized that plants are made of chemical elements obtained from three
sources: air, water, and soil; and that the plants grow and increase
in size and weight by combining these elements into various plant
substances. i

The major portion, usually about 90 percent, of the dry matter
of most plants (water is, of course, always the main component of
growing plants) is made up of three chemical elements: carbon, oxygen,
and hydrogen. Carbon comes from the air, oxygen from the air and
from water, and hydrogen from water. In addition to the three
elements named above, plants contain other elements, such as nitrogen,
phosphorus, potassium, and calcium, which they obtain from the
soil. The soil, then, supplies to the plant a large number of chemical
elements, but they constitute only a very small portion of the plant’s
composition. It was early understood, however, that various elements
which occur in plants in comparatively small amounts are just as
essential to their growth as those which compose the bulk of plant
tissues.

The publication, in 1840, of Liebig’s book, The Application of
Organic Chemistry to Agriculture and Physiology” in which the
above views were ably and effectively brought to the attention of
plant physiologists and chemists of that period, served as a great
stimulus for the undertaking of experimental work in plant nutrition.

2 Von Liebig, Justus, Chemistry in its applications to agriculture and physiology, English trans., 401 pp.
John Wiley, New York, 1861.
464 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938

(Liebig, however, failed to understand the role of soil as a source of
nitrogen for plants, and the fixation of atmospheric nitrogen by bacteria
was not then known.)

Once it was recognized that the function of the soil in the economy
of the plant is to furnish certain chemical elements, as well as water,
it was but natural to attempt to supply these elements and water
independently of soil. The credit for initiating exact experimentation
in this field belongs to the French chemist, Jean Boussignault, who
is regarded as the founder of modern methods of
conducting experiments in vegetation.

Boussignault, who had begun his experiments on
plants even before 1840, grew them in insoluble
artificial soils: sand, quartz, and sugar charcoal,
which he watered with solutions of known com-
position. His results provided experimental veri-
fication for the mineral theory of plant nutrition
as put forward by Liebig, and were at once a demon-
stration of the feasibility of growing plants in a
medium other than a “natural soil.””, This method
of growing plants in artificial insoluble soils was
later improved by Salm-Horstmar (1856-60) and
has been used since, with various technical im-
provements, by numerous investigators throughout
the world. In recent years, large-scale techniques
have been devised for growing plants for experi-
mental or commercial purposes in beds of sand or
other inert solid material.

After plants were successfully grown in artificial
culture media, it was but one more step to dispense
Figure 1.—Water-culture with any solid medium and attempt to grow plants

installationemployed ., : : .

by the plant physiologiss 1n Water to which the chemical elements required

Runes of by plants were added. This was successfully
accomplished in 1860 by Sachs and about the

(Reproduced from Sachs,

Lectures on the Physi: same time by Knop. To quote Sachs directly: ’
ology of Plants. Clar- :
endon Press, 1887.) In the year 1860, I published the results of experiments

which demonstrated that land plants are capable of ab-
sorbing their nutritive matters out of watery solutions, without the aid of soil,
and that it is possible in this way not only to maintain plants alive and growing
for a long time, as had long been known, but also to bring about a vigorous increase
of their organic substance, and even the production of seed capable of germination.

The original technique developed by Sachs for growing plants in
nutrient solutions is still widely used, essentially unaltered. He ger-
minated the seed in well-washed sawdust, until the plants reached a
size convenient for transplanting. After carefully removing and

3 von Sachs, Julius. Lectures on the physiology of plants, p. 288, Clarendon Press, Oxford, 1887.
WATER-CULTURE METHOD—HOAGLAND AND ARNON 465

washing the seedling, he fastened it into a perforated cork, with the
roots dipping into the solution. The complete assembly is shown in
figure 1, which is a reproduction of Sachs’ illustration.

Since the publication of Sachs’ standard solution formula (table 1)
for growing plants in water culture, many other formulas have been
suggested and widely used with success by many investigators in
different countries. Knop, who undertook water-culture experiments
at the same time as Sachs, proposed in 1865 a nutrient solution, which
became one of the most widely employed in studies of plant nutrition.
Other formulas for nutrient solutions have been proposed by Tollens
in 1882, by Schimper in 1890, by Pfeffer in 1900, by Crone in 1902, by
Tottingham in 1914, by Shive in 1915, by Hoagland in 1920, and
many others.

TABLE 1— Composition of nutrient solutions employed by early investigators }

Sachs’ solution (1860) Knop’s solution (1865) Pfeffer’s solution (1900) Crone’s solution (1902)

Grams Grams Grams Grams
Ingredient | per 1,000 Ingredient | per 1,000 Ingredient | per 1,000 Ingredient | per 1,000
ce H30 ec H30 ec H2,0 cee H30
KNOm =o 1.00 || Ca(NOs)2-_-__ 0.8 || Ca(NOs)2-_-_- 0.8 || KNOs3-_---___- 1.00
Ca3(PO4)2----- R10) ||P EN Og 22058 32 NOssgire? 2 || Cas(PO4)2__- .25
MgSO. 22s 2 eh Oe sss 8 25
MirS O72 .50 |} KH2POu_____ 2 || KH2PO«___-- 2 |j CaSQy______- 20
Caso ees . 50 || MgSO«_--____ 2 (c) PES ers DIAN ARES EX Oy Se 25
Naess ss 20) || Neb Oye seen Trace || FeCls_._.__-- Small
amount
FeS Oye e Trace

1 These and other formulas are given in: Miller, E. C., Plant physiology, pp. 195-197, McGraw-Hill Book
Co., New York, N. Y., 1931. For best results, these solutions should be supplemented with boron, man-
ganese, zinc, copper, and molybdenum, as described in the text, p. 487, if distilled water is used in the prepa-
ration of the nutrient solution.

At the very inception of the water-culture work, investigators clearly
recognized that there can be no one composition of a nutrient solution
which is always superior to every other composition, but that within
certain ranges of composition and total concentration, fairly wide
latitude exists in the nutrient solutions suitable for plant growth.
Thus Sachs wrote:

I mention the quantities (of chemicals) I am accustomed to use generally in
water cultures, with the remark, however, that a somewhat wide margin may be
permitted with respect to the quantities of the individual salts and the con-
centration of the whole solution—it does not matter if a little more or less of the
one or the other salt is taken—if only the nutritive mixture is kept within certain
limits as to quality and quantity, which are established by experience.

Until recently, the water-culture technique was employed exclusively
in small-scale, controlled laboratory experiments intended to elucidate
fundamental problems of plant nutrition and general physiology.
These experiments have led to the determination of the list of chemical
elements essential for plant life and have thus profoundly influenced
the practice of soil management and fertilization for purposes of crop
466 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938

production.* In recent years, great refinements in water-culture
technique have made possible the discovery of several new essential
elements, which, although required by plants in exceedingly small
amounts, often are of definite practical importance in agricultural
practice. The elements derived from the nutrient medium that are
now considered to be indispensable for the growth of higher green
plants are nitrogen, phosphorus, potassium, sulphur, calcium, mag-
nesium, iron, boron, manganese, copper, and zinc. New evidence
suggests that molybdenum may have to be added to the list.5 Present
indications are that further refinements of technique may lead to the
discovery of still other elements, essential in minute quantity for
growth.

In addition to the list of essential elements, which is obviously of
first importance in making artificial culture media for growing plants,
a large amount of information has been amassed on the desirable pro-
portions and concentrations of the essential elements, and on such
physical and chemical properties of various culture solutions as
acidity, alkalinity, and osmotic characteristics. A most important
recent development in water-culture technique has been the recogni-
tion of the importance for many plants of special aeration of the
nutrient solution, to supplement the oxygen supply normally gaining
access to the solution when it is in free contact with the surrounding
atmosphere.

The recently publicized use of the water-culture technique for com-
mercial crop production does not rest on any newly discovered
principles of plant nutrition other than those discussed above. It
involves, rather, the application of a large-scale technique, developed
on the basis of an understanding of plant nutrition gained in previous
investigations conducted on a laboratory scale. The latter have pro-
vided an understanding of the composition of suitable culture solu-
tions. Furthermore, methods of controlling the concentration of
nutrients and the degree of acidity are, except for modifications
imposed by the large scale of operations, similar to those employed in
small scale laboratory experiments.

The selection of a particular type of covering for the tanks adapted
to large-scale water-culture operations and of methods for supporting
the plants depends on the kind of plant. For example, in growing
potatoes by the water-culture method, provision must be made for a
suitable bed above the level of the solution, in which tubers can
develop. On the other hand, in growing tomatoes it is only necessary
to provide adequate support for the aerial portion of the stem, assum-
ing that the roots are in a favorable culture-solution medium, ade-

¢ However, nutrient solutions such as are employed in water-culture experiments are not applied directly
to soils. For discussion of fertilizer problems consult: Hoagland, D. R., Fertilizer problems and analysis

of soils in California, Calif. Agr. Exp. Stat. Cire. 317, pp. 1-15, revised 1938.
’ Unpublished data of D. I. Arnon and P. R. Stout.
WATER-CULTURE METHOD—HOAGLAND AND ARNON 467

quately aerated, and with light excluded; a porous bed may be con-
venient as a means of facilitating aeration of the solution, as a heat
insulator, or as a support for the plant, but plays no indispensable
role. Aside from such considerations, the choice of a covering is
determined largely by expense and convenience, provided the materials
used are not toxic to plants.

With any kind of covering for the tanks, an adequate supply of air
to the roots must be provided. While the use of a porous bed instead
of a perforated cover facilitates aeration of roots, the bed can be dis-
pensed with if provision is made to bubble air through the nutrient
solutions (pl. 1). Recent experiments have shown that even with the
use of a porous bed, bubbling air through the solution may be advan-
tageous or, under some conditions, indispensable.

For approximately a quarter of a century investigations have been
conducted at the University of California on problems of plant nutri-
tion with the use of the water-culture technique, as one important
method of experimentation. The objective has been to gain a better
understanding of fundamental factors which govern plant growth, in
order to deal more effectively with the many complex problems of soil
and plant interrelations in the field. As illustrations of some scientific
problems of plant nutrition which have been elucidated by the aid of
the water-culture method of experimentation, the effects of aeration
of the roots on plant growth are shown in plate 2, figure 1, and the
effects of deficiencies of mineral elements required in minute quantity
in plate 2, figure 2.

Many workers have participated in these investigations. One of
them, W. F. Gericke, conceived some time ago that the water-culture
method, hitherto employed only for scientific studies, might be
adapted to commercial use. In experiments carried on in the green-
houses and experimental gardens of the university, he grew plants in
water culture on a scale larger than that used in earlier investigations
and devised a method of superimposing a porous bed over the nutrient
solution. This development was soon given widespread publicity in
newspapers and popular journals. The public became fascinated
with the idea of growing plants in a medium other than soil. Many
thousands of inquiries have come to the University of California
requesting detailed information which would make possible the general
application of the water-culture method by commercial concerns or by
amateur gardeners.

This article, based largely on experience of its authors,® was pre-
pared to make available information for which a great public demand
had arisen. Although in view of the complexity of the problem the

6 The authors, however, disclaim any credit for suggesting the use of the water-culture method for com-
mercial purposes.

114728—39——31
468 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938

California Agricultural Experiment Station has no recommendations
to offer at this time for the general use of the water-culture method, it
seems proper and necessary that those who wish to experiment with
this method on their own responsibility should have accessible a
popular account of the information now available from the researches
of the Agricultural Experiment Station.

The method of water culture is, as previously indicated, not the
only one for growing plants without soil. Several other experiment
stations have developed large-scale techniques of sand or gravel
culture. These involve the periodic flooding, or subirrigation, of a
solid medium with nutrient solutions similar to those employed in
the water-culture method. Some investigators hold the opinion that
the sand- or gravel-culture methods have certain advantages in
practical use over the water-culture method, particularly in respect
to conditions of aeration of the root system.’

PRINCIPLES AND APPLICATION OF THE WATER-CULTURE
METHOD

The purpose of this circular is to give an account of the water-
culture method as a means of supplying mineral nutrients and water
to plants. The absorption of nutrient salts and water are only two
of the physiological processes of the plant. In order to evaluate the
possibilities and limitations of any special technique for growing
plants, one has to understand the significance of other interrelated
processes, especially photosynthesis, respiration, transpiration, and
reproduction.

IMPORTANCE OF CLIMATIC REQUIREMENTS

Many inquiries have been received on the possibility of growing
plants in water culture in dimly lighted places, or at low temperatures,
under conditions which would prevent growth of plants in soil. Obvi-
ously, no nutrient solution can act as a substitute for light and suitable
temperature. If doubt is entertained of the suitability of a particular
location or season for the growth of any kind of plant, a preliminary
experiment should be made by growing the plant in good garden soil.
If the plant fails to make satisfactory development in the soil medium

7 Further information on the sand- and gravel-culture methods may be obtained from the following
publications:

Withrow, R. B., and Biebel, J. P., Nutrient solution methods of greenhouse crop production. Indiana
(Purdue Univ.) Agr. Exp. Stat. Circ. 232, pp. 1-16, 1937.

Biekart, H. M., and Connors, O. H., The greenhouse culture of carnations in sand, New Jersey Agr.
Exp. Stat. Bull. 588, pp. 1-24, 1935.

Shive, J. W., and Robbins, W. R., Methods of growing plants in solution and sand cultures, New Jersey
Agr. Exp. Stat. Bull. 636, pp. 1-24, 1938.

Eaton, Frank M., Automatically operated sand-culture equipment, Journ. Agr. Res., vol. 53, pp. 433-44,
1936.

Chapman, H. D., and Liebig, George F., Jr., Adaptation and use of automatically operated sand-culture
equipment, Journ. Agr. Res., vol. 56, pp. 73-80, 1938,
WATER-CULTURE METHOD—HOAGLAND AND ARNON 469

because of unfavorable light or temperature, failure may also be
expected under water-culture conditions. Sunlight and suitable tem-
peratures are essential for green plants, in order that they may carry
on one of the fundamental processes of plant growth, known as
photosynthesis. In this process, the element carbon, which forms so
large a part of all organic matter, is fixed by plants from the carbon
dioxide of the atmosphere. This reaction requires a large amount of
energy, which is obtained from sunlight.

Plants depend on photosynthesis for their food, that is, organic
substances, such as carbohydrates, fats, and proteins, which provide
them with energy and enter into the composition of plant substance.
The mineral nutrients absorbed by roots are indispensable for plant
growth, but they do not supply energy, and in that sense, cannot be
regarded as “plant food.’’ Animal life is also absolutely dependent
on the ability of the green plant to fix the energy of sunlight.

TEMPERATURE RELATIONS

An earlier report of a preliminary experiment by other investigators
suggested that under greenhouse conditions heating the nutrient
solution would produce large increases in the yield of tomatoes.®
Experiments that we have carried on with tomatoes in a Berkeley
greenhouse (unheated except on a few occasions to prevent tem-
peratures from falling below 50°-55° F.) have now given evidence
that under the climatic conditions studied, the beneficial effects of
heating the nutrient solution (to 70°-75° F.) are not of significance.
If favorable air temperatures are maintained, there seems to be no
need to heat the solution. Attempts should not be made to guard
against frost injury or unfavorable low air temperatures merely by
heating the nutrient solution. Proper provision should be made for
direct heating of the greenhouse. This may be found desirable even
when danger from low temperatures is absent, in order to control
humidity and certain plant diseases.

These experiments on tomatoes suggest that if greenhouse tempera-
tures are properly controlled, the solution temperature will take care
of itself. Certainly no expense, either in a greenhouse or outdoors,
should be incurred for equipment for heating solutions until experi-
mentation has shown that such heating is profitable. There is no
one best solution temperature. The physiological effects of the
temperature of the solution are interrelated with those of air tem-
perature and of light conditions.

Most amateurs who try the water-culture method will grow plants
in warm seasons and probably will not wish to complicate their

8 Gericke, W. F., and Tavernetti, J. R., Heating of liquid culture media for tomato production, Agr.
Eng., vol. 17, pp. 141-142, 184, 1936.
470 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938

installation by the addition of heating devices. Anyone who desires
to test the influence of heating the culture solution should make com-
parisons of plants grown under exactly similar conditions, except for
the difference of temperature in the solutions.

COMPARISONS OF YIELDS BY SOIL AND WATER CULTURE

The impression conveyed by most of the popular discussions of the
water-culture method is that the inherent productive capacity of a
given surface of nutrient solution far surpasses that of an equivalent
surface of soil, even under the best soil conditions feasible to maintain.
Often quoted is the yield of tomato plants grown for a 12 months’
period in a greenhouse water-culture experiment in Berkeley.? This
yield is compared with average yields of tomatoes under ordinary field
conditions, and the yield from the water-culture plants is computed
to be many times greater. But closer analysis shows that erroneous
inferences may be drawn from this comparison. Predictions con-
cerning yields in large-scale production are of doubtful validity when
based on yields obtained in small-scale experiments under laboratory
control. In any event, there is little profit in comparing an average
yield from unstaked tomato plants grown during a limited season
under all types of soil and climatic conditions in the field, with yields
from staked plants grown in the protection of a greenhouse for a full
year. Evidence has long been available that yields of tomatoes
grown in a greenhouse, in soil, can far exceed yields obtained in the
field. It is true that in one series of outdoor experiments, the yields
of tomatoes under water-culture conditions were reported to be much
higher than under ordinary field conditions, on a unit-surface basis;
but again, the general cultural treatment of the plants (especially
with regard to spacing and staking) was so different that comparisons
of yield are of very limited value. Furthermore, the equipment for
an acre of water-culture plants would be very costly, and technical
supervision of the cultures and the labor of staking vines would neces-
sitate large and as yet unpredictable expenditures.

A real test of the relative capacities of soil and water-culture media
for crop production requires that the two types of culture be carried
on side by side, with similar spacing of plants and with the same
cultural treatment for plants grown in soil and water culture. The
soil should be of suitable depth and have its nutrient supplying power
and physical condition as favorable for plant growth as possible.
We initiated an experiment of this kind in Berkeley late last summer,
with the tomato as the test plant. The experiment has now been
carried on over a full year, and several of the conclusions derived
from it warrant emphasis. The yield of tomatoes grown by the usual

° Gericke, W. F., Crop production without soil, Nature, vol. 141, pp. 536-540, 1938. See also the article
cited in footnote 8, p. 469.
WATER-CULTURE METHOD—HOAGLAND AND ARNON 471

tank-culture technique was larger than any heretofore reported as
obtained by this method. The yield from the soil-grown plants,
however, was not significantly different from that of the plants grown
by the tank method (pl. 3). When the greenhouse yields of tomatoes
from either soil or solution-grown plants were computed on an acre
basis and compared with average yields of field-grown tomatoes, the
greenhouse plants gave far greater yields. But as already suggested,
such comparisons have no direct practical significance because of the
differences of climatic factors, cultural practice, and length of season
in the greenhouse and in the open field.

In one California commercial greenhouse, the yields of tomatoes
grown in soil were of the same magnitude as those obtained in a
successful commercial greenhouse employing the water-culture pro-
cedure, and in another greenhouse using soil the yields were larger.

Recently, data have become available on yield of potatoes grown
in a bed of peat soil in Berkeley. This yield was as large as any
heretofore reported as produced by the water-culture method.

The suggestion has sometimes been advanced that plants can be
grown more closely spaced in nutrient solutions than in soil, but no
convincing evidence of this has been given. In our experiments, we
were able to grow tomato plants as close together in the soil as in the
solution (pl. 3). The density of stand giving the highest yields
would be determined by the adequacy of the light received by the
plants when growth is not limited by the supply of nutrients or water
derived from either soil or nutrient solution. Closeness of spacing
under field conditions is, of course, limited by practical considerations
involving cost of crop production. This consideration of economic
factors and of the adequacy of light for plant growth does not justify
the view that the water-culture medium is better adapted than soil to
growing several different crops simultaneously in the same bed.

Published pictures of tomato plants grown in water culture show
impressive height, and this growth in length of vines is frequently the
subject of popular comment. As a matter of fact, the ability of
tomato vines to extend is characteristic of the plant and not peculiar
to the water-culture method. Staked plants grown for a sufficiently
long period in a fertile soil, under favorable light and temperature
conditions, can also reach a great height and bear fruit at the upper
levels (pl. 4). In commercial greenhouse practice, growers usually
“top” the vines. Fruit developed at higher levels is likely to be of
inferior quality, and relatively expensive to produce because of labor
required to attach supports to the vines, and the inconvenience of
harvesting. Furthermore, it may become profitable to discontinue
the tomato harvest when prices become low in the summer and use
the greenhouse space to plant another crop for the winter harvest.
472 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938

There is no magic in the growth of plants in water culture. This is
only another way of supplying water and essential mineral elements
to the plant. Land plants have become adapted to growing in soils
during their evolutionary history, and it is not reasonable to expect
some extraordinary increase in their potentialities for growth as a
result of the substitution of an artificial medium for a soil. If no
toxic conditions are present and a fully adequate supply of water,
mineral salts, and oxygen is provided to the root system, either
through an artificial nutrient solution or a soil, then in the absence
of plant diseases and pests, the growth of a plant is limited by its
genetic constitution and by climatic conditions.

NUTRITIONAL QUALITY OF PLANT PRODUCT

Modern research on vitamins and on the role in animal nutrition
of mineral elements has justly aroused great public interest, but
unfortunately one of the results is much popular discussion of diets
and their influence on health which is without scientific basis. It is,
therefore, not unexpected that claims have been advanced that food
produced by the water-culture method is superior to that produced
by soil.

As part of our investigation, careful studies of chemical composition
and general quality have been made on tomatoes of several varieties
grown in fertile soil and in water-culture media, side by side in the
same greenhouse, and with the same general cultural treatment. No
significant difference has been discovered in the mineral content of
the fruit developed on plants grown in the two media. (There is no
scientific basis for referring to tomatoes grown in water culture as
‘‘mineralized.’’)

Neither could any significant difference be found in content of
vitamins (carotene, or provitamin A, and vitamin C). Tomatoes
harvested from the soil and water cultures could not be consistently
distinguished in a test of flavor and general quality.’

Concerning the mineral content of tomatoes, it may further be
added, as a point of general interest, that all tomatoes contain but
very small amounts of calcium and are not an important source of
this mineral element in the diet.

The similarity in composition and general quality of the tomatoes
grown in soil and water culture in the present experiments, is explained
by the fact that the climate and time of harvest were comparable and
the supply of mineral nutrients adequate in both cases. Whether
plants are grown in soil or water culture, climate and time of harvest
are, of course, of greatest importance in influencing quality and
composition of plant product.

10 The quality tests were conducted by Dr. Margaret Lee Maxwell, of the Division of Home Economics,

and the carotene determinations were made by Dr. Gordon Mackinney, of the Division of Fruit Products,
College of Agriculture.
WATER-CULTURE METHOD—HOAGLAND AND ARNON 473

Claims of unusual nutritional value for food products from certain
sources should not be accepted unless supported by results obtained
in research institutes of high standing.

PRESENT STATUS OF THE COMMERCIAL WATER-CULTURE METHOD

What is the justification for considering the water-culture method
as a means of commercial crop production? The answer to this
question is that the method has certain possibilities in the growing
of special high-priced crops, particularly out of season in greenhouses,
in localities where good soil is not available, or when maintenance of
highly favorable soil conditions is found too expensive. Soil beds in
greenhouses often become infected with disease-producing organisms,
or toxic substances may accumulate. Installation of adequate equip-
ment for sterilizing soils and operation of the equipment may require
considerable expense. Also, in theory at least, a water-culture
medium, when expertly supervised, should be subject to more exact
control than a soil medium.

Present information does not warrant a prediction as to how widely
the water-culture method will find practical application in green-
houses. One firm in California has reported success with this method
in the production of tomatoes; another California firm which invested a
large sum in equipment, met such serious difficulties that the equip-
ment was not being utilized at last report. We suggest that those
who contemplate installation of the water-culture method for com-
mercial purposes, make a preliminary test with a few tanks of solution
to compare the yields from soil and water-culture media, and to
learn some of the requirements for control of the process. However,
without some expert supervision, commercial success is unlikely.

Indispensable to profitable crop production by the water-culture
method is a general knowledge of plant varieties, habits of growth,
and climatic adaptations of the plant to be produced, pollination, and
control of disease and insects; in other words, the same experience
now needed for successful crop production in soils.

The above discussion is primarily based on experiments with green-
house crops. Conceivably in regions highly favored climatically, and
with a good water supply available, but where soil conditions are
adverse, some interest may arise in the possibilities of growing crops,
outdoors, commercially, by the water-culture method. What crops,
if any, could be grown profitably by this method would depend on the
value of the crop in the market served, in relation to cost of production,
which would include a large outlay for tanks and other equipment
and materials, as well as special costs of supervision and operation.
Thus far, no evidence is available on which to base any prediction
as to future development of the water-culture method of crop
474 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938

production under outdoor conditions. Before planning any invest-
ment in this field, the most careful consideration should be devoted
to the economic and technical factors concerned. It seems improbable
in view of the present cost of a commercial water-culture installation,
that crops grown by this method could compete with cheap field-
grown crops. Recently, popular journals have discussed a project
for growing vegetables in tanks of nutrient solution, on Wake Island,
in Mid-Pacific, to supply fresh vegetables (which constitute only a small
proportion of the total food requirements) for the inhabitants of the
island and for passengers of the clipper airships. This, however, is a
special case, and there is no reason to assume that it has any general
agricultural significance.

GROWING OF PLANTS IN WATER CULTURE BY AMATEURS

Most numerous among the inquiries for information about the
water-culture method are those from persons who wish to grow plants
in this way as a hobby. ‘These persons usually seek exact directions
as to how to proceed to carry on water cultures. For reasons, which,
we hope, will be made clear through reading this circular, it is not
possible to describe a general procedure that will insure success.
Many technical difficulties may be met: character of water, adjust-
ment of acidity of the solution, toxic substances from tanks or beds,
uncertainty as to time for replenishing salts in the nutrient solution,
or for changing the solution, and the like.

Why, it may be asked, do not most of these technical difficulties of
the water-culture method arise when plants are grown in soil? Because
in a naturally fertile soil, or one which can be made fertile by simple
treatment, there occurs an automatic adjustment of many of the
factors determining the nutrition of the plant.

Some amateurs have recently reported results satisfactory to them-
selves, with certain kinds of plants grown in water culture, and similar
success can presumably be achieved by others through a fortunate
combination of nutritional and climatic conditions. Yet without
knowledge and control of the factors involved, no assurance can be
given that success with one kind of plant at one season can be con-
sistently repeated with other kinds of plants, or at other seasons.
True, not every successful gardener has a thorough training in plant
and soil science, nor can such training, by itself, always insure suc-
cess in gardening. However, since the growing of plants in soil is
one of the oldest occupations of mankind, the gardener can often
obtain guidance based on a rich store of accumulated experience.
Such experience is lacking for the growth of plants by the water-
culture method.

In any case, growing of plants as a hobby, in either soil or culture
solution, without regard to cost of labor and materials, is, of course, a
WATER-CULTURE METHOD—-HOAGLAND AND ARNON 475

very different matter from producing crops for profit. The experi-
ence of the amateur gardener, whether he uses soil or the water-culture
method, is not adequate preparation for commercial crop production.

USE OF PREPARED SALT MIXTURES

Many amateurs have become interested in the purchase of mix-
tures of nutrient salts ready for use, and various individuals and firms
have offered for sale small packages of salt mixtures. Clearly a pre-
pared salt mixture does not obviate the difficulties which may be
met in growing plants in water culture. Recently, some firms,have
made highly misleading claims for the salt mixtures they sell. The
California Agricultural Experiment Station makes no recommenda-
tion with regard to any salt mixture, and the fact that a mixture is
registered with the California State Department of Agriculture, as
required by the law governing sale of fertilizers, implies no endorse-
ment for use of the product. The directions given later will help the
amateur to prepare his own nutrient solutions.

COMPOSITION OF NUTRIENT SOLUTIONS

Thousands of requests have been received by the California Agri-
cultural Experiment Station for formulas for nutrient salt solutions.
It is often supposed that some remarkable new combination of salts
has been devised and that the prime requisite for growing crops in
solutions is to use this formula. Now the fact is that there is no one
composition of a nutrient solution which is always superior to every
other composition. Plants have marked powers of adaptation to
different nutrient conditions. If this were not so, plants would not
be growing in varied soils in nature. We have already emphasized
in the historical sketch of the water-culture method that within certain
ranges of composition and total concentration, fairly wide latitude
exists in the preparation of nutrient solutions suitable for plant
growth. Many varied solutions have been used successfully by
different investigators. Even when two solutions differ significantly
in their effects on the growth of a particular kind of plant under a
given climatic condition, this does not necessarily mean that the same
relation between the solutions will hold with another kind of plant,
or with the same kind of plant under another climatic condition.

Another point concerning nutrient solutions needs to be stressed.
After plants begin to grow, the composition of the nutrient solution
changes because the constituents are absorbed by plant roots. How
rapidly the change occurs depends on the rate of growth of the plants
and the volume of solution available for each plant. Even when
large volumes of solutions are provided, some constituents may be-
come depleted in a comparatively short time by rapidly growing
476 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938

plants. This absorption of nutrient salts causes not only a decrease
in the total amounts of salts available, but a qualitative alteration
as well, since not all the nutrient elements are absorbed at the same
rates. One secondary result is that the acid-base balance (pH) of the
solution may undergo changes which in turn may lead to precipitation
of certain essential chemical elements (particularly iron and man-
ganese) so that they are no longer available to the plant. Also to
be considered are the effects of salts added with the water (discussed
later).

For these various reasons, the maintenance of the most favorable
nutrient medium throughout the life of the plant involves not merely
the selection of an appropriate solution at the time of planting, but
also continued control, with either the addition of chemicals when
needed or replacement of the whole solution from time to time. Proper
control of culture solutions is best guided by chemical analyses of
samples of the solution taken periodically and by observations of the
crop. Further investigation will determine if successful standardized
procedures requiring only limited control and adjustments can be
developed for a given crop, locality, and season of the year.

The plant physiologist, in his experiments, prepares his solutions
with distilled water for the purpose of exact control. The commercial
grower, or the amateur, is usually limited to the use of domestic or
irrigation water which contains various salts, including sodium salts,
such as sodium chloride, sodium sulphate, and sodium bicarbonate,
as well as calcium and magnesium salts. Most waters suitable for
irrigation or for drinking can be utilized in the water-culture method,
but the adjustment of the reaction (pH) in the nutrient solution
depends on the composition of the water. Some waters may contain
so much sodium salt as to be unfit for making nutrient solutions.
Even with a water only moderately high in salt content the salt
may concentrate in the nutrient solution with possibly unfavorable
effects on the plant, if large amounts of water have to be added to
the tanks and the solutions are not changed. Also we have had ex-
perience with a well water which was highly toxic because it contained
too high a concentration of zinc, apparently derived largely from circu-
lation through galvanized pipes. The water was, however, not inju-
rious to tomato plants when used on a soil, because of the absorbing
power of the soil for zinc.

As already indicated, the successful growth of a crop is dependent
on sunlight and temperature and humidity conditions, as well as on
the supply of mineral nutrients furnished by the culture medium.
Complex interrelations exist between climatic conditions and the
utilization of these nutrients. The relation of nitrogen nutrition and
climatic conditions to fruitfulness has often been stressed. In some
localities, deficient sunshine may prevent the production of profitable
WATER-CULTURE METHOD—HOAGLAND AND ARNON 477

ereenhouse crops of many species in winter months no matter what
nutrient conditions are present in the culture solution.

NUTRIENT REQUIREMENTS OF DIFFERENT KINDS OF PLANTS

The question is frequently asked: Does each kind of plant require
a different kind of nutrient solution? The answer is that if proper
measures are taken to provide an adequate supply of nutrient ele-
ments, then many kinds of plants can be grown successfully in nutrient
solutions of the same initial composition (the same fertile soil can
produce high yields of many kinds of plants).

The composition of the nutrient solution should always be con-
sidered in relation to the total supply as well as the proportions of
the various nutrient elements. To give a specific illustration: assume
that several investigators prepare nutrient solutions of the same
formula, but one uses 1 gallon of the solution for growing a certain
number of plants, another 5 gallons of solution, and still another 50
gallons of solution. If plants were grown to large size, each investi-
gator would reach a different conclusion as to the adequacy of the
nutrient solution employed, although the initial composition was the
same in all cases. The investigator using the small volume might
find that his plants became starved for certain nutrients, while the
one using the larger volume experienced no such difficulty. In fact,
the precise initial composition of a culture solution has very little
significance, since the composition undergoes continuous change as
the plant grows and absorbs nutrients, and the rate and nature of this
change depends on many factors, including total supply of nutrients.
Adequacy of supply of nutrients involves volume of solution in rela-
tion to the number of plants grown, stage of growth of the plant and
rate of absorption of nutrients, and frequency of changes of solution.

Apart from the question of adequate supply of nutrients, there are
certain special responses of different species of plants which have to
be taken into account in the management of nutrient solutions.
Plants vary in their tolerance to acidity and alkalinity. They also
differ in their susceptibility to injury from excessive concentrations
of elements like boron, manganese, copper, and zinc. Some plants
may be especially prone to yellowing because of difficulty in absorb-
ing enough iron or manganese. Some may succeed best in more
dilute nutrient solution than is employed for most kinds of plants.
Unfavorable responses by certain plants to high nitrogen supply, in
relation to fruiting, under certain climatic conditions, may require
consideration.

Since the adaptation of a nutrient solution to the growth of any
particular kind of plant depends on the supply of nutrients and on
climatic conditions, there is no possibility of prescribing a list of
478 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938

nutrient solutions, each one best for a given species of plant. Some
general type of solution such as those described in this circular,
should be tried first and modified later if necessary as a result of
experimentation.”

INSECT ATTACKS AND DISEASES

Contrary to some statements, it is not true that plants grown by
the water-culture method are thereby protected against disease
(except strictly soil-borne diseases) or the attacks of insects. Recent
observations suggest that diseases peculiar to the water-culture method
may sometimes attack plants grown in nutrient solutions.

WATER REQUIREMENTS OF PLANTS GROWN BY THE WATER-
CULTURE METHOD

The use of water by plants is primarily determined by the physio-
logical characteristics of each species of plant, extent of leaf surface,
and atmospheric conditions, just as when plants are grown in soil.
If a large crop is produced, either by the water-culture method or in
soil, and if climatic conditions favor high evaporation of water from
the plant, the amount of water used in producing the crop is neces-
sarily large.

In a greenhouse experiment conducted in Berkeley for the purpose
of comparing the growth of tomatoes in soil and water-culture media,
according to actual measurement, somewhat more water was required
to produce a unit weight of fruit under water-culture conditions than
under soil conditions. Possibly more water was evaporated from the
water surface than from the soil surface, in addition to the principal
loss of water by evaporation through the plant, common to both
soil and water culture. The fallacy of the idea that plants could be
grown in a desert region with a fraction of the water needed to pro-
duce crops in irrigated soil is evident, assuming any reasonably good
management of irrigation practices.

RESUME OF THE WATER-CULTURE TECHNIQUE

Many types of containers for nutrient solutions have been found
useful. In investigational work, 1- or 2-quart Mason jars provided
with cork stoppers often serve as culture vessels (pl. 5). Sometimes
5- or 10-gallon earthenware jars have been found suitable for experi-
mental purposes. Small tanks of various dimensions have been
extensively used. For certain special investigations, shallow trays
or vessels of Pyrex glass are required. The selection of a container

11 A number of inquiries have been received regarding the culture of mushrooms. The water-culture
method under discussion is unsuited to the culture of mushrooms. These plants require organic matter

for their nutrition, and differ in this way from green plants, which can grow in purely mineral nutrient
solutions like those described in this circular
WATER-CULTURE METHOD—HOAGLAND AND ARNON 479

depends on the kind of plant to be grown, the length of the growing
period, and the purpose for which the plants are grown. Plate 6
shows the varied types of containers for nutrient solutions as employed
at the California Agricultural Experiment Station for research pur-
poses. Some of the smaller containers illustrated would doubtless
be convenient for amateur use, but the importance of the factor of
aeration of the solution should be stressed. If small containers are
employed and a large root system is to be developed, it may be
desirable or necessary to provide for special aeration of the culture
solutions. Plants differ greatly in regard to their requirements for
aeration of the root system.

For commercial water culture, long, narrow, shallow tanks have
been employed. They may be constructed of wood, cement, black
iron coated with asphalt paint, or other sufficiently cheap materials
which do not give off toxic substances. In these tanks is placed the
nutrient solution in which roots of the plant are immersed. Wire
screens are placed over the tops of the tanks, or inside, above the
solution. The screens support a layer of bedding of varying thickness
(often 3 or 4 inches), according to the kind of plant grown (pl. 7).
This technique was first suggested by W. F. Gericke.” The bed may
be prepared from a number of inexpensive materials—for example,
pine shavings, pine excelsior, rice hulls. Some materials, such as
redwood shavings or sawdust, may be toxic. Seeds are planted in the
moist beds, or young plants from flats are set in them with their roots
in the nutrient solution. Roots may later develop not only in the
solutions in the tanks, but also in the beds.

The shallowness of the tanks and the porous nature of the beds
facilitate aeration of the root system—an essential factor—but as
already pointed out, such aeration unsupplemented by an additional
oxygen supply, does not give the best growth of all kinds of plants.
Recently evidence became available that significant improvement of
growth and yield of tomato plants resulted from continuous bubbling
of air through the nutrient solution, although the yields from un-
aerated cultures were at least as large as any previously reported for
water culture.

Chemically pure salts commonly employed in making nutrient solu-
tions for scientific experiments would be too expensive for commercial
practice, and a number of ordinary fertilizer salts can serve in large-
scale production of crops. Recent developments in the fertilizer in-
dustry have made available cheap salts of considerable degree of pur-
ity. Some commercial salts, however, contain impurities (fluorine,
for example, is commonly found in phosphate fertilizers) which may
be toxic to plants under water-culture conditions.

11 Gericke, W. F., Aquaculture: A means of crop production, Amer. Journ. Bot., vol. 16, p. 862, 1929,
480 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938

DIRECTIONS FOR GROWING PLANTS BY THE WATER-CULTURE
METHOD

TANKS AND OTHER CONTAINERS FOR NUTRIENT SOLUTIONS

Various kinds of tanks have been utilized for growing plants in
water culture. Tanks of black iron, well painted with asphalt paint
(most ordinary paints cannot be used because of toxic substances),
have proved satisfactory for experimental work. Galvanized iron
may give trouble, even when coated with asphalt paint, if the paint
scales off.

Concrete tanks have been tried, but they may require thorough
leaching before use. Painting the inside of the tank with asphalt
paint is advisable. Wooden tanks will serve the purpose, if made
watertight. Redwood may give off toxic substances and therefore
may require preliminary leaching to remove these substances. Final-
ly, coating with asphalt paint is desirable.

For small-scale cultures, 2- or 4-gallon earthenware crocks may
be serviceable. A wire screen to hold the bedding material can be
bent over the sides of the crock. But if a number of plants are to
be grown to large size in such jars, the solution may require special
aeration as by bubbling air through it continuously.

For demonstrations in schools, Mason jars covered with brown
paper, to exclude light, can be employed (pl. 5). The jars are pro-
vided with cork stoppers in which one or more holes have been bored
(sometimes a slit is also made in the cork; see fig. 1). Plants are
fixed in the holes with cotton. Wheat or barley plants are very suit-
able for these demonstrations, since they may be grown in the jars
without any special arrangements for aeration.

Other types of culture vessels are shown in plate 6.

The dimensions of tanks must be selected in accordance with the
objective. One kind of tank, of moderate size, adapted to many
purposes, has dimensions of 30 inches in length, 30 inches in width,
and 8 inches in depth (pl. 6, B). A smaller tank, 30 inches long,
12 inches wide, and 8 inches deep, is convenient for use in many
experiments (pl. 6, C). In general, shallow tanks will be found
suitable. The length and width may be determined by consideration
of convenience and economy. As an alternative to the porous bed,
for many kinds of plants, tanks can be provided with metal or wooden
covers perforated to hold corks in which plants are fixed with cotton,
if adequate aeration is maintained (pl. 2).% (See discussion of aera-
tion, p. 467.)

13 A description of the construction of aerating devices for culture solutions is given by: Furnstal, A. F.,

and Johnson, S. B., Preparation of sintered pyrex glass aerators for use in water-culture experiments with
plants. Plant Physiol., vol. 11, pp. 189-94, 1936.
WATER-CULTURE METHOD—HOAGLAND AND ARNON 481

When large tanks are to be used with a porous bed, a heavy chicken-
wire netting (1-inch mesh), coated with asphalt paint, is fastened to
a frame and placed directly over the tank to provide support for the
porous bed. In constructing a frame, it is advisable to leave several
narrow sections not covered with wire netting, but with wooden covers
which can be conveniently removed for inspection of roots or for
adding water or chemicals. The wire netting should be stretched
immediately above the surface of the solution when the tank is full.
Cross supports may be placed under the netting to prevent it from
sagging (pl. 7). A carpenter or mechanic can design and build
suitable tanks and frames, which may take many forms.

NATURE OF BED !4

When a porous bed is to be employed, a wire screen is covered by
a layer of the porous material 3 or 4 inches thick—thicker when
tubers or fleshy roots develop in the bed. Various cheap bedding
materials have been suggested: pine excelsior, peat moss, pine shav-
ings or sawdust, rice hulls, ete. Some materials are toxic to plants.
Redwood should usually be avoided. One type of bed which has
produced no toxic effects in experiments carried on in Berkeley, with
tomatoes, potatoes, and certain other plants, consists of a layer of
pine excelsior 2 or 3 inches thick, with a superimposed layer of rice
hulls about 1 or 2 inches thick. For plants producing tubers of fleshy
roots, some finer material may possibly need to be mixed with the
excelsior. This is also essential when small seeds are planted in the
bed, to prevent the seeds from falling into the solution and to effect
good contact of moist material with the seed. In all cases, the bed
must be porous and not exclude free access of air.

If seeds are planted in the bed, it must, of course, be moistened
at the start and maintained moist until roots grow into the solution
below. For the development of tubers, bulbs, fleshy roots, etc.,
the bed should be maintained in a moist state, by occasional sprink-
ling. Great care should be observed to prevent waterlogging of the
bed, resulting from immersion of the lower portion of the bed in the
solution. This leads to exclusion of air and to undesirable bacterial
decompositions.

PLANTING PROCEDURES

Seeds may be planted in the moist bed, but often it is better to
set out young plants chosen for their vigor, which have been grown
from seeds in flats of good loam. Some seeds (for example, cereal
seeds) may also be conveniently germinated between layers of moist

16 The general arrangement of this type of bed was described by Gericke, W. F., and Tavernetti, J. R.,
Heating of liquid culture media for tomato production, Agr. Eng., vol. 17, pp. 141-42, 184, 1936.
482 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938

filter paper (or paper toweling), particularly if plants are to be fixed
in corks and grown in jars or in tanks with perforated metal or wooden
covers. The upper layers of moist paper are removed after seeds
begin to germinate. The seedlings are allowed to grow on the moist
bed until large enough to place in corks. An excess of water is then
added to the moist paper and the young plants removed carefully so
as not to damage the roots.

In transplanting from a flat of soil, the soil is thoroughly soaked
with water so that the plants can be removed with the least possible
injury to the roots. The roots are then rinsed free of soil with a
light stream of water and immediately set out in the beds or corks,
with the roots immersed in the solution. When young plants are
set out in the beds, the roots are placed in the solution, and at the
same time the layer of excelsior is built up over the screen. Then
the layer of rice hulls is placed on top of the excelsior (pl. 7). If
seeds are to be planted in the bed, the whole bed must be installed
and moistened before the seed is planted.

SPACING OF PLANTS

In our experiments with tomato plants, they were set close to-
gether, in some instances 20 plants to 25 square feet of solution
surface. No general advice can be offered as to the best spacing.
This depends on the kind of plant and on light conditions. Indi-
vidual experience must guide the grower.

ADDITION OF WATER TO TANKS

In starting the culture, the tank is filled with solution almost to
the level of the lower part of the bed. As the plants grow, water
will be absorbed by plants or evaporated from the surface of the
solution, and the level of the solution in the tank will fall. The
recommendation has generally been made that after the root system
is sufficiently developed, the level of the solution should remain from
one to several inches below the lower part of the bed, to facilitate
aeration. However, since the solution level should not be permitted
to fall very far, regular additions of water are required.

As pointed out earlier, when large amounts of water have to be
added to a tank, excessive accumulations of certain salts contained
in the water may occur, especially if the salt content of the water is
high. To avoid this difficulty, the entire solution is changed whenever
the salt concentration becomes high enough to influence the plant

1s Certain methods of circulating culture solutions (such as those described by J. W. Shive and W. R.
Robbins, in the citation given in footnote 7, p. 468, New Jersey Agr. Exp. Stat. Bull. 636) may be convenient

for maintaining a supply of water and nutrients, as well as assisting in aeration of roots. One commercial
greenhouse has utilized on a large scale a method of circulating nutrient solution from a central reservoir
WATER-CULTURE METHOD—HOAGLAND AND ARNON 483

adversely. Should plants be injured, however, by the presence in the
water of high concentrations of elements like zinc, changing solutions
will not prevent injury. Because of the wide variation in the composi-
tion of water from different sources, no specific directions to cover all
cases can be given.

CHANGES OF NUTRIENT SOLUTION

As the plants begin to grow, nutrient salts will be absorbed and
the acidity of the solution will change. More salts and acid may be
added, but to know how much, chemical tests on the solution are
required. When these cannot be made, an arbitrary procedure may
be adopted of draining out the old solution every week or two, imme-
diately refilling the tank with water, and adding salts and acid, as
at the beginning of the culture. The number of changes of solution
required will depend on the size of plants, how fast they are growing,
and on volume of solution. Distribute the salts and acid to different
parts of the tank. In order to effect proper mixing, it may be well
to fill the tank at first only partly full (but keep most of the roots
immersed) and then after adding the salts and acid, to complete the
filling to the proper level with a rapid stream of water, which should
be so directed as not to injure the roots.

TESTING AND ADJUSTING THE ACIDITY OF WATER AND NUTRIENT
SOLUTION

Ordinarily some latitude is permissible in the degree of acidity (pH)
of the nutrient solution. For most plants a moderately acid reaction
(from pH 5.0 to 6.5) is suitable. If distilled water is used in the prep-
aration of nutrient solutions, no adjustment of its reaction is necessary.
If tap water is used, a preliminary test of its reaction should be made
and if the water is found alkaline, it should be acidified before adding
the nutrient salts.

As already stated the reaction (pH) of the nutrient solution is subject
to change as the plant grows. The reaction of the culture solution
should be tested from time to time and corrected, if found alkaline.

The chemicals required for testing acidity of water or nutrient solu-
tion are:

1. Bromthymol blue indicator.—This can be obtained with directions
for use, from chemical supply houses, in the form of solutions or im-
pregnated strips of paper. Strips of other test papers covering a
wide range of acidity are also now available on the market and may be
found, by the amateur who understands their use, very convenient for
adjusting the acidity of water as well as that of the nutrient solution.

2. Sulphuric acid.—Purchase a supply of 3 percent (by volume)
acid of chemically pure grade. (Concentrated, chemically pure sul-

1147283932
484 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938

phuric acid may be purchased and diluted to 3 percent strength, but
the concentrated acid is dangerous to handle by inexperienced persons.)
This 3 percent acid may be further diluted with water if a preliminary
test indicates that only small additions of acid are required to bring
about a desirable reaction.

Test the degree of acidity of a measured sample of the water or
nutrient solution (a quart, for example) by noting the color of the
added indicator or test paper immersed in the solution. When
bromthymol blue indicator is used, a yellow color indicates an acid
reaction (with no further adjustment necessary), green a neutral
reaction, blue an alkaline reaction.

If the original color is green or blue, add the dilute sulphuric acid
(3 percent or less in strength) slowly with stirring until the color just
changes to yellow (indicating approximately pH 6). Do not add more
beyond this point, since the yellow color will also persist when excessive
amounts of acid are added. Record the amount of acid required.

Finally, add a proportionate amount of the acid to the water or
nutrient solution in the culture tank or vessel, having first determined
how much it holds.

MODIFICATION OF NUTRIENT SOLUTION BASED ON ANALYSIS OF WATER

A chemical analysis of the water to be employed in making the
nutrient solution is useful. Some waters may contain so much cal-
cium, and perhaps magnesium and sulphate, that further additions of
these nutrient elements are unnecessary, or even undesirable. The
objective should be to approximate the intended composition of
the nutrient solution, taking into account the salts already present
in the water. Since, however, considerable latitude is permissible in
the composition of nutrient solutions, analysis of the water is not
indispensable, unless the content of mineral matter is very high.

SELECTION OF A NUTRIENT SOLUTION

As stated before, there is no one nutrient solution which is always
superior to every other solution. Among many solutions which might
be employed, those described below have been found to give good
results with various species of plants in experiments conducted in
Berkeley, with a source of good water. Other solutions can also be
used with good results.

The composition of the solutions is given in two forms: (A) by
rough measurements adapted to the amateur without special weighing
or measuring instruments, and (B) in more exact terms for those with
some knowledge of chemistry, who have proper facilities for more
accurate experimentation.
WATER-CULTURE METHOD—HOAGLAND AND ARNON 485

PREPARATION OF NUTRIENT SOLUTIONS: METHOD A, FOR AMATEURS

Either one of the solutions given in table 2 may be tried. Solution 2
may often be preferred because the ammonium salt delays the develop-
ment of undesirable alkalinity. The salts are added to the water,
preferably in the order given.

To either of the solutions, add the elements iron, boron, manganese,
and in some cases zinc and copper. There is danger of toxic effect if
much greater quantities of these elements are added than those
indicated later in the text. Molybdenum and possibly other elements
required by plants in minute amounts will be furnished by impurities
in the nutrient salts or in the water, and need not be added deliberately.

TABLE 2.—Composition of nutrient solutions.’ (The amounts given are for 25 gallons
of solution.)

SOLUTION 13

Approximate
Approximate
Salt Grade of salt amount in | Amount in
ounces spoons
Potassium phosphate (monobasic) -_------ yy 1
Potassium nitrate®...2-.222- sf c-ech ee cee ee 2 4
Calcium nitrates ss eee eee en oa 3 7
Magnesium sulphate (Epsom salt)_..----- 14% 4
SOLUTION 2

Ammonium phosphate (monobasic) ---_--- Dechnicalsce.sacesaseeenseeeasa= 4% 2
Potassinmi nitrate: 2-25.22. . s4.55.-4 Nertiliver 2220-5. 3 es 214 5
Oaicium' nitrate. 2212222222232 3222222 Se. doz’ 22a es 2 eet 2% 6
Magnesium sulphate (Epsom salt)__..__-_ Technical 222 3. - ee ee 1% 4

1 The University does not sell nor give away any salts for growing plants in water culture. Chemicals
may be purchased from local chemical supply houses, or possibly may be obtained through fertilizer dealers.
Some of the chemicals may be obtained from druggists. If purchased in fairly Jarge lots, the present price of
the ingredients contained in 1 pound of a complete mixture of nutrient salts is approximately 5 to 10 cents for
either solution described above.

2 To either of these solutions, supplements of elements required in minute quantity must be added;
see directions in the text.

(a) Boron and manganese solution.—Dissolve 3 teaspoons of pow-
dered boric acid and 1 teaspoon of chemically pure manganese chloride
(MnCl,.4 HO) in a gallon of water. (Manganese sulphate could be
substituted for the chloride.) Dilute 1 part of this solution with 2
parts of water, by volume. Use a pint of the diluted solution for
each 25 gallons of nutrient solution.

The elements in group 1 are added when the nutrient solution is
first prepared and at all subsequent changes of solution. If plants
develop symptoms characteristic of lack of manganese or boron,
solution a, in the amount indicated in the preceding paragraph, may
be added between changes of the nutrient solution or between addition
of salts needed in large quantities. But care is needed, for injury
may easily be produced by adding too much of these elements.

16 The University is not prepared to diagnose symptoms on samples of plant tissues sent in for examinations
486 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938

(b) Zine and copper solution.—Ordinarily this solution may be omit-
ted, because these elements will amost certainly be supplied as im-
purities in water or chemicals, or from the containers. When it is
needed additions are made as for solution a. To prepare solution 6,
dissolve 1 teaspoon of chemically pure copper sulphate (CuSO,.5H,O)
and 4 teaspoons of chemically pure zinc sulphate (ZnSO,.7H,O) in a
gallon of water. Dilute 1 part of this solution with 4 parts of water.
Use 1 teaspoon of the diluted solution for each 25 gallons of nutrient
solution.

(c) Additions of iron to nutrient solution—Generally, iron solution
will need to be added at frequent and regular intervals, for example,
once or twice a week. If the leaves of the plant tend to become
yellow, even more frequent additions may be required. However, a
yellowing or mottling of leaves can also arise from many other causes.

The iron solution is prepared as follows: Dissolve 1 level teaspoon
of iron tartrate (iron citrate or iron sulphate can be substituted, but
the tartrate or citrate is often more effective than the sulphate) in 1
quart of water. Add ¥% cup of this solution to 25 gallons of nutrient
solution each time iron is needed.

PREPARATION OF NUTRIENT SOLUTIONS: METHOD B, FOR SCHOOLS OR
TECHNICAL LABORATORIES

For experimental purposes, the use of distilled water and chemically
pure salts is recommended. Molar stock solutions (except when
otherwise indicated) are prepared for each salt, and the amounts indi-
cated below are used.

Solution 1 Cubic centimeters in a liter of

nutrient solution
IM KEEP Or potassium acid phosphates) 2 Des bees aes 325 eee eee 1
M-KNO,, potassium nitrates.< 0252 --- 2255-552 -55-4 2 eee eee ess 5
"Ca NO,)s; Calenim Mista... oe cone eee ee een ee 5
M MeSO,, magnesium sulphate. 2. 22 3 es ee eee 2
Solution 2 Cubic centimeters in a liter of

nutrient solution
M NE,H.PO;, ammonium acid phosphate! . 2. 220i 2 S22 eet eee 1
MK NOs opotassitm titratéses. fostiniets ot ee eee See eae 6
DM CaCNQs)e, Calenim, nitrate: = 2 $2532. se. f Joo ee = ee ee 4
MW MeS0,, magnesium sulphate. = =. — . 3-54 4 es eee 2

To either of these solutions add the following solutions a and 6
below.

(a) Prepare a supplementary solution which will supply boron,
manganese, zinc, copper, and molybdenum as follows:
WATER-CULTURE METHOD—HOAGLAND AND ARNON 487

Grams dissolved in 1 liter
of HsO0

Compound:
Bieta aii Hele eer ee See eo ee ee ek 2. 86
MnC;.4H,0, manganese chloride__.<._......._...-..22s2s-2c22... 1. 81
Pao Pre mee SONGS oe 2 le Rey
CusG.oH.0,eopper sulphates. 2. 22... ee ke . 08
H;MoQ,.H20 molybdic acid (assaying 85 percent MoQ;)_____________ . 09

Add 1 cc of this solution for each liter of nutrient solution, when
solution is first prepared or subsequently changed, or at more frequent
intervals if necessary.

This will give the following concentrations:
Parts per million of nutrient

Element: solution
EET UT 2 SG SS a ce, — ge eRe Ae RLS me Se Mea on a a 0.5
Peles tires ee tee eee ee eh ee ee a 5
FETT oie kag SE EEE AMR ae ps es es a a te el ee ee . 05
SP RAE eects ee ees 5 leet etn eee lS i et se Re . 02
iiolgadienniimeer seen eee he Saas oh Sols Sap re ee . 05

(b) Add iron in the form of 0.5 percent iron tartrate solution or
other suitable iron salt, at the rate of 1 cc per liter, about twice a week
or as indicated by appearance of plants.

The reaction of the solution is adjusted to approximately pH6 by
adding 0.1 NH.SO, (or some other suitable dilution).

Molar solutions.— The concentrations of stock solutions of nutrient
salts used in preparation of nutrient solutions are conveniently expressed
in terms of molarity. A molar solution is one containing a 1 gram-
molecule (mol) of dissolved substance in 1 liter of solution. (In all
nutrient-solution work, the solvent is water.) A gram-molecule or
mol of a compound is the number of grams corresponding to the
molecular weight.

Examp.eE 1: How to make a molar solution of magnesium sulphate:
The molecular weight of magnesium sulphate, MgSO,.7H,0 is 264.50.
One mol of magnesium sulphate consists of 264.50 grams. Hence to
make a molar solution of magnesium sulphate, dissolve 264.50 grams
of MgSQ,.7H,O in water and make to 1 liter volume.

EXAMPLE 2: How to make a % molar (0.05 M) solution of mono-
calcium phosphate, Ca(H2PO,),.H,O: The molecular weight of mono-
calcium phosphate, Ca(H,PO,)..H;O is 252.17. Hence 0.05 mol of

. 252.17 grams
Ca(H,POQ,)..H.0 is “99 12.61 grams. Therefore, to make a
0.05 M solution of monocalcium phosphate, dissolve 12.61 grams of
Ca(H,PO,)2.H.O in water and make to 1 liter volume.
oe SL “ Pit ? baatg
ue | gies een 7 a % Rie i bacon es
mn Awideieeaies

> t f

‘ re he

; - ’ a
* ¢ f

' ; ~r

»

a A

‘

ri

$5 ‘aa

“ ake

\
u /
+
i ye AD fie h f
‘

irae nf = neat erate 3 %

Bs weet obeartenipgn 7d .
gi, Welcr aed aerate eiiilacs pea a |

«CAG a yin ip anal ) pay, aah Raa}
bipergnd tty 4 » acres AOI hy ag Tene ey) reset ott piaisi
Lyesietia osc) pi sacac yay te ay nce en ea hah aL ne Nia tin viet r

ae ew Sedma arly? enn Hiren ay Pee livint. Aer Arkbeabelte |
r Ga ty oe Pints & At te edt © 4 ith pirdsey NeChLEN airy why wails Bie (ona ints
a, ee MOLT aaa elena ‘ “4 eee id to on baht att a dé thet
_ ; Pie , YATE) (ORIG Tt! uy a cn ee ‘ v iinhnnitess ela fe hin Bs

hatches mtmaueriren ns cubated “ a, Aa ny wild = x Ma
y bad iw. 1 pen imi . 2%, '
bk Pah Cer eRe 9 Fah t af My Pepe La Hit Grassi yt rT ben) oo a)

Be it RGUART @ RO SE Ts tae ney abkletna crriffaewry amen to
iy aaiete (MY a vlog mi aes haelty fite spllreentit, Je soo ar .

tS his ig? a | Auto kt x 8 aan £ Hie abana ued,

, Bit i et hi alll? ns MEAD Toit a: a OAg

‘i Mae: ye: Lat 1) raya Like aglocd ale Bess
a aes Hye Ath panel» aba nt epg

wan ey ast | eae spre Balhae! to ies tp
> sat sae OF dl eghe rw Ca

ta ata aN (yar ior P “a i af biel

“syUR] OY] Ul WONpOs JUALTINE oy} YFNoIGY peyqqnq st yoy eansseid Jopun ITB AqIvO Saqn} Joqqni pus sseI3 OY, “S1dA0d [RIOUT OY} UT Pe[IIp sepoy Ut peoe{d ore YoY Sy100 Uy
poqioddns ore syuerd [eNprarpur oy, “SWOr}Tpmod peTforjuoa Jopun syuepd vonq}9] JO sosuodsod [RUOTITAINEG oy} SUJAPNs Loy oNH MYy9e} WOLNTOs-a1nyyNd dy} JO os OY} So}V.YSNTTT SIGL,

ioe EIEN Aa Fy uouly pue pur[seopj—"gc6] ‘qioday UeluOsYy}IWIG
Snithsonian Report, 1938.—Hoagland and Arnon PRA EN2

1. Effect of forced aeration on asparagus plants grown in culture solutions. Right: plants without forced
aeration. Left: plants grown in solution through which air was bubbled continuously.

2. The asparagus plant on the left grew in a nutrient solution in which boron, manganese, zinc, and copper
were present in such small amounts as one part in several million parts of solution; those on the right grew
in solutions to which these elements were not added.
PLATE 3

Smithsonian Report, 1938.—Hoagland and Arnon

Growth of tomato plants in fertile soil, in nutrient solution, and in pure silica sand irrigated each day with
nutrient solution. Fruit has been harvested for 7 weeks prior to taking the photograph. All plants
have made excellent growth and set large amounts of fruit in all three media. The general cultural con-
ditions, spacing, staking, etc., were the same.
Smithsonian Report, 1938.—Hoagland and Arnon PLATE 4

| SOLUT/ON Po a

IN SOIL

Under favorable conditions tomato plants can grow to a great height and bear fruit over an extended period
of time. This is equally possible in soil, sand, and water-culture media. The plants in the foreground
were grown in a bed of fertile soil. At the time of taking this photograph, several days before the termina-
tion of the experiment, most of the fruit was already harvested.
Smithsonian Report, 1938.—Hoagland and Arnon PLATE 5

)

Corn and sunflower plants grown in nutrient solution contained in 2-quart mason jars. Note method of
placing plants in perforated corks. The jars are covered with thick paper to exclude light.
‘ulgered YIM peyvood Uey] pur sted jo
Jojse[d W101; papfOUl 91B WOT}BAISN]]T oY} Ul UMOYS SIOUTBIWOO Soy} OJ SIOAOI oY, ‘aeUBsUBU pu ‘1oddoo ‘oulZ sB YOns ‘AYUBNH oynuruT Ut syuR[d Aq podnbos syUoUET9 peoyuTEYD
UTBI100 JO AYITBI}WASse 9Y} ApNjs 0} poUstsop sjWeurttedxo [eloods 10} pasn Joyvoq PUB YSIpP xeIAd ‘H pUB | “WMOIS 0q 0} SjuR[d Jo oZIS pue JoquINU oY} 0} SuIps0d0R pelea oq
Ud JOAOD OY} UI Sepoy JO Joquinu syy, ‘SABI] 10 SYUB} [BJOUL [[B WO posn oq ABUT C PUB ‘H ‘Y Ul UMOYS SB SOA) [BJOUI Po}VIOJlog ‘“S}UL[d [[BUIS SUTAOID OJ posn “Ut 24z X “Ul TT
X “Ul OT Wed aleMozUBIS ‘GY “UL X “Ul SOT X “Ul MGT :SuO[sueTUTp Jo YUL} WOM‘ “Ulg X “ULZI X “ULE :sUOISMOUITp Jo YUL} WOT‘) “UY X “UO X “UT Og :suOIsMOTATp Jo yuv}
won “gq “21 0}e[d UL UMOYS SB SHU BSOY} IOAO Jos oq Os[B ACUI [BII0JBUI SUIPpeq SUIUTE]U0D SoMeIJ TAPOOAA ‘*(T *[d) sefoy OY} UL poxy ore syuRTd SuTAOddns 10} sy100 poyRI0y
-19q “1OA0) [BJOUI JO WOTJOVS OUO SMOYS “UlS X 43 %S X “HOL :suolsuoud “yured wMuUruMye YIM opls}no “ured q[eydse YIM opIsul pojured yu, (poztUBATes jou) UOT asIK] SY

“QOHLAW SYNLIND-YSsLVM AHL AG SLNAWIYSdxy NO ONIAYYVD YOsdA SYANIVLNOD AO SAdAL SNOIUVA

9 3ALV 1d uouly pure pur[seoyj—9¢6| ‘qaoday uRIuOsy WIS
“AO[S[9OXE OY} IAAO ST[NY 9dII Jo JaAv] B SuIpwords Aq pojord
-a100 st suyjueld eyL :4Jo] oy} MOL YUBy ply, “YUL} oy} JO pe Ivy OY} Ul UMOYS se ‘3uI4}0U 94} JOAO pRords st JOISToOxa JO JOART VY “WOLJNTOs 4WSTIJNU oY} UI PasIOWIUMT $}O0I I9y}

Gira peoed ore sjuerd oyemmoy, :4Je] 94} WO YUL] SMA “WOTN[Os JUTANU oy} YITM pely (V ‘9 ‘[d) Hue} [pour oy} JoAO S}¥ WoeeJds OITM B BUT}IOddns ommely Y °4JOT OY} WO’, YUL] puodeg
“SNILNV Id AO GOHLAW GNV LNAWdINOF MNVL AO LNAWSAONVYYY IWHYANAD

LaLvid uouly pure puelseopy—"g¢¢| ‘q10dayy ueruosyq1WIG
“ROOT-PRESSURE”—AN UNAPPRECIATED FORCE IN SAP
MOVEMENT!

By Puiurp R. WHITE

{With one plate]

The long and tortuous history of our knowledge—or better our
observations and theories—on the movement of sap in plants is famil-
iar to most botanists. From the time of Stephen Hales, 200 years ago,
up to the middle of the nineteenth century, the movement of water
through the plant was supposed to be brought about primarily through
the activity of living cells, either by the agency of unidentified tissues
of root and stem, as Hales believed (1727), or the medullary rays, as
suggested by Knight (1801). The “drawing power” of the leaves was
recognized by both Hales and Knight, but, since it was well known
that a suction pump would not lift water higher than about 30 feet,
this was considered of secondary importance. Beginning about 1860,
along with the rise of mechanistic theories in other fields, evidence
began to accumulate which indicated that living cells might not be
necessary for the rise of sap. This changing viewpoint found strong
support in Molisch’s demonstration (1902) of the traumatic nature of
many of the bleeding phenomena upon which Hales’ vital theory
rested and finally culminated in the development of the Dixon-
Askenazy cohesion theory of sap movement (Dixon and Joly, 1895;
Askenazy, 1895). This theory, which takes account of the enormous
suctions developed at evaporating leaf surfaces and of the fact that in
capillary tubes water possesses a great tensile strength capable of
transmitting these suctions through a plant stem to the soil, seemed to
deal with forces more nearly commensurate with the needs of tall
trees than had those demonstrated by Hales and his successors. The
result was that most plant physiologists completely abandoned the
vital theories in favor of the mechanical ones. In spite of the objec-
tions of Priestley (1935), Ursprung (1906), Heyl (1933), and others,
that is approximately where the situation rests today.

The cohesion theory certainly has some very serious flaws which are
rather well outlined in Priestley’s paper of 2 years ago (1935). It has
iteats. fant the Department of Animal and Plant Pathology of the Rockefeller Institute for Medical
Research, Princeton, New Jersey, presented at the Indianapolis meeting of the American Association for
the Advancement ofScience, December 1937. The American Association prize was awarded to Dr. White

for his noteworthy contribution to science presented at the annual meeting. Reprinted by permission
from the American Journal of Botany, vol. 25, No. 3, March 1938.
489
490 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938

been accepted not so much because of its freedom from objections
as because of the inadequacy of all other theories. The only real con-
tender—Hales’ old ‘Troot-pressure’’ scheme—was rejected, first, be-
cause pressures greater than the 1.4 atmospheres recorded by Hales
himself had not been observed, and, second, because all demonstra-
tions of root-pressure rested on experiments with decapitated and
moribund plants subject to Molisch’s criticism. Water must be
raised in some Eucalyptus trees to a height of 350 feet, requiring either
a push or a pull of at least 13 atmospheres. The maximum root-pres-
sures observed were only of a magnitude of 1.4 atmospheres, they were
transitory, and doubt even existed as to their presence in uninjured
plants. Consequently, modern plant physiology texts for the most
part treat “root-pressure”’ as unimportant.

Excised roots of tomato have been kept growing in vitro for a num-
ber of years (White, 1937). The roots form normally developed
vascular strands, although completely immersed in a nutrient solution
(pl. 1, fig. 1). The occurrence of strands in roots grown under these
conditions has seemed rather anomalous. If, however, a continuous
flow of liquid be assumed to take place through the roots, the presence
of strands would be understandable. If such a current exists, it was
thought these roots might offer a means of determining the reality or
unreality of ‘‘root-pressure’’ and perhaps of measuring it under con
ditions free from Molisch’s objections.

Means have, therefore, been devised of repeating Hales’ original
experiment, using single actively metabolizing tomato roots instead
of his moribund grapevine stocks.

Capillary manometers were built to receive single roots. Specimens
of a clone of excised tomato roots grown in continuous culture for the
past 5 years were subcultured and allowed to stand for 1 week, to
give the cut surfaces time to heal completely. Their bases were then
carefully inserted into manometers, and seals were made by means of
miniature rubber hose corresponding to those used in the classic
Fuchsia demonstration known to every student of plant physiology.
The roots with their attached manometers were returned to fresh flasks
of nutrient, and their subsequent behavior observed (pl. 1, fig. 2).
All manipulations had, of course, to be carried out aseptically and
with as little trauma as possible.

The results of the first experiments were surprisingly good (White,
1936). The roots did secrete water from their bases into manometers.
There does exist a unidirectional flow of liquid through these roots.
“Root-pressure”’ is not an artifact but a reality. This paper proposes
to present some quantitative results of these experiments.

If roots of this kind are set up in two series of manometers, with
capillaries of the same diameter, one series containing water, the other
mercury, we would expect a decrease in the secretion rate under the
“ROOT-PRESSURE” —WHITE 491

mercury column corresponding to the 13.5:1 differential in weight
between mercury and water. Figure 1 shows the result of such an
experiment using manometers 500 mm high. Contrary to expec-
tation, no such observable decrease occurred. Both columns rose at
the same rate. The pressure differential apparently had no effect on
the secretion rates. The only conclusion to be drawn is that the
curves do not represent pressures at all but only volumes.

Closed manometers in which the pressure would build up rapidly
with very little volume change were tried, but such manometers proved
hard to clean and did not permit the detection of leaks at the root-
manometer juncture. Leveling bulbs were then resorted to. Results

600

e Mercury
500 ° Water

f
Oo
oO

mm. Hg or H20
tw
S

0 50 100 1502 200d) 250° 900
Hours

FIGURE 1.—Curves showing rise of liquid in two similar manometers, one filled with water, the other with
mercury. The roots failed to secrete during the first 48 hours after the experiment was set up, presumably
until they had recovered from the shock of manipulation. This lag does not always occur. The curves
have almost identical slopes in spite of the 13.5:1 differential in weight between mercury and water.

of an experiment with such a device are represented in figure 2.
During the course of the experiment it was thrice necessary to replace
or extend the manometer tube, and since the tubes were not all of the
same diameter, a different scale had to be used for each. Scales were
chosen, such that the slope of the curve for an hour or so before and
after each change should be approximately the same. In this experi-
ment the water column rose 1,790 mm in 6 days. A leveling bulb was
then attached, and an atmosphere of pressure—760 mm Hg—was
applied. Since the column continued to rise at an undiminished
rate, the pressure was increased after 20 hours to 2 atm. (1,520 mm
Hg). The water still continued to rise. Sufficient mercury to give
another atmosphere of pressure would have carried the bulb through
492 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938

the ceiling of the room, so the apparatus was carefully moved to a
nearby laboratory which had a stairway in it, and the bulb was carried
into the room above. Unfortunately, a period of adjustment was not
allowed, as should have been done, so that when, under 3 atmospheres
pressure, the column began to fall, no definite cause could be assigned

A ius moved
1830 sgl
2atm
1810
2 stm
(@)
=
= 1790
(‘=
1770
1800 i laim.
22)
260 = 3300
: Hours
changed

U
Tube
changed Hours

0 ide Oe Sebel
0 40 80
Hours

Figure 2.—A curve showing the effect of imposing pressures up to 3 atm. against the secretion pressures
eveloped by a single tomato root.

for the drop. But the fact that when the pressure was reduced again
to 2 atm., the column did not resume the upward course it had pre-
viously held at that pressure, indicated that a leak in the apparatus
had probably been brought about in moving. The important fact
demonstrated by this experiment is that a pressure of 2 atm. was not
sufficient to retard noticeably secretion of water from the uninjured
base of a single root of tomato.
“ROOT-PRESSURE” —-WHITE 493

Since roots of this sort developed pressures in excess of 30 pounds
to the square inch, it was evident that something more than the
simple hose seal between glass and root would have to be devised to
stand the pressures. After many trials, the assembly shown in
plate 1, figure 3, was developed. The base of the manometer had a
hole about 1 mm in diameter and 15 mm deep to receive the base of
the root. Above this the opening tapered abruptly to a bore of about
0.25 mm. A centimeter back of the tip on the outside was a collar
of glass. The specially made rubber connecting tube had a corre-
sponding collar inside, with the hole about 1.5 mm in diameter at
the end which was to fit over the glass and only about 0.1 mm in
diameter where it was to enclose the root. In setting up an experi-
ment, this tube was moistened with glycerine and the end of the
manometer inserted completely through it so that the tip protruded.
The base of the root was then inserted into the manometer and the
rubber pushed back until it enclosed the root for a distance of about
a centimeter and the glass for an equal distance. A strong linen
thread was bound tightly around the rubber both over the root and
over the glass. The rubber distributed the pressure so that this
binding did not crush the root, while the glass collar prevented the
rubber from slipping off. The whole was then enclosed in a metal
clamp, which had collars to press into the rubber at both ends. This
effectively protected the rubber from being ruptured by the pressures
applied. The manometer was then inserted into a 500 ml Erlen-
meyer flask and the upper end attached to a metal manifold. Pres-
sure was applied to the manifold from a compressed air tank and
observation begun. The manifold used took 4 manometers at a
time.

In the first series of experiments with this apparatus, a gage reading
to 100 pounds per square inch was used, on the supposition that this
would suffice to record any pressure obtained. Figure 3 represents
the results of one experiment with such a setup. The rise of the
water column was observed for 24 hours and the secretion curve,
which showed a definite diurnal variation in slope,? plotted. Pres-
sure of one atmosphere was applied at 4 p. m. and, since the column
continued to rise, a second atmosphere was applied at 5 p. m. and the
apparatus left over night. Under a pressure of 2 atm. the column
rose as rapidly that night as it had in the corresponding period of the

1 This diurnal rhythm was observed in all experiments where readings were made at frequent enough
intervals to permit its detection. It seems to be a regular characteristic of the secretion process. The
roots used were not protected against the diurnal variations in temperature (24°-28° C., June 1936) and
illumination characteristic of a laboratory room with NE. exposure. Nevertheless, since the mean daily
temperatures often varied more than did the hourly temperatures within single 24-hour periods, without
producing corresponding variations in secretion rate, it seems improbable that this rhythm is the result of
temperature variations. It is difficult, though not impossible, to imagine how an organ without chloro-
phyll and whose growth rate has been shown to be independent of illumination of the intensity obtained in

the laboratory (White, 1937) could have this one process so markedly affected by illumination. This
diurnal rhythm remains an interesting but as yet unexplained feature of the secretion process.
494 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938

day before, so at 9 a. m. the pressure was increased to 3 atm., at 11
a.m. to 4 atm., at 2 p.m. to 5 atm., and at 4 p.m. to6atm. At7
o’clock that evening the column was still rising, and by 9 the next
morning had risen an additional 110 mm, although it had been sub-
jected to a pressure of 90 pounds per square inch over that period.
As already stated, the gage read only to 100 lbs. Another atmos-

Hours
0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80

0K 130
120
110
Pressure uniform
100 6AM
E 90
80 aN of !
{ :
70 {é 2
fecint a
6AM. r =° a
>

FIGURE 3.—Curves showing the rates of secretion of two similar tomato roots over a period of 314 days, one
with uniform (atmospheric) pressure, the other against imposed pressures up to 90 lbs./sq. in.

phere would have given a pressure of 105 Ibs., so the attempt to reach
a pressure sufficient to stop secretion had to be abandoned. ‘The pres-
sure was, therefore, removed and the remainder of the curve to the
top of the manometer plotted. A control curve, obtained without
imposed pressure, is plotted above the experimental one, for com-
parison.
“ROOT-PRESSURE” —WHITE 495

If, now, the control curve, recorded without imposed pressure, is
compared with the experimental one, obtained under pressures vary-
ing between 0 and 6 atm., they are seen to be almost exactly alike.
Moreover, if the segment: 9 a. m. to noon, on the 3d day, is compared
with the corresponding segment on the 4th day, their slopes are seen
to be almost identical, although the second was obtained under zero
pressure and the first under 3 atm. This record represents one of
4 manometers set up in series on a single manifold. A second gave
an identical curve up to the afternoon of the 3d day when a bacterial
contamination of the culture solution set in and secretion stopped
abruptly. A third gave a similar curve but with a shallower slope,
possibly because the root used had a smaller diameter, and the fourth
developed a leak around the root which permitted air to escape. Six
atmospheres pressure, 4 times the greatest value that I have found
recorded elsewhere for root-pressure (the exudation pressures of
Boehm, Figdor, Molisch, and MacDougal were of quite a different
sort, in that they were obtained as a result of trauma) was not enough
to slow down secretion to a measurable extent.

The sap movement which we are here studying is a matter of filtra-
tion through a membrane which we usually assume to be readily
permeable to water, and surely equally permeable in either direction.
The membrane can, therefore, be ignored in any calculation of the
forces causing filtration, at least so long as movement is slow. We
have been trying to balance a measured applied force against an
unknown secretion force. Secretion should stop when the external
and internal forces are equal, and water should flow back through
the membrane—the root—when the applied force exceeds the force
of secretion. Secretion should become slower and slower as the
external force approaches the value of the internal one.

Six atmospheres external pressure did not bring about any observ-
able retardation of secretion from these roots. Only one conclusion
appears possible from this observation—6 atmospheres must be so
small in comparison with the secretion pressure actually developed
by the roots as to be quite insignificant. It is the writer’s opinion
that this secretion pressure cannot be less than 10 atmospheres and is
probably much more than that. In fact, it seems possible that it
may be limited only by the osmotic value of the cells themselves.
Attempts have been made to impose still higher pressures, but they
have met with mechanical difficulties that have not yet been over-
come. It is interesting that so far failures have all been due to flaws
in the apparatus. The roots have not failed to secrete liquid regularly
against all pressures to which they have been subjected.

The old “root-pressure” theory of Hales has been disparaged by
modern plant physiology texts because it did not provide sufficient
force and because of the suspicion that it might be an artifact. These
496 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938

experiments seem to show conclusively that both objections are
invalid. ‘Root-pressure” is certainly a very real phenomenon, going
on in uninjured normally metabolizing roots and showing a striking
diurnal rhythm that is reminiscent of many vital processes. The
fact that a bacterial contamination will stop secretion so suddenly
indicates the metabolic character of the process. And the force
developed is of a magnitude not to be despised. Six atmospheres
pressure is sufficient to sustain a 200-foot water column. This is
far higher than any tomato plant ever grows. Yet such a column
appears to be small in comparison with what the lifting power of
tomato roots is capable of sustaining. That is a force which is to be
reckoned with. It has been unappreciated in the past because,
before the development of the root-culture technique, only moribund
and abnormally metabolizing tissues could be studied.

It is not suggested that mechanical factors, such as transpiration-
pull, cohesion, capillarity, etc., do not play a considerable role in sap
movement. Under conditions of high transpiration they probably
do account for the movement of large volumes of water through the
plant. It is merely pointed out that under certain conditions—such
as those prevailing in the spring when the maple sap is flowing,
though leaves have not been developed—some or all of these me-
chanical processes cease to function. At such times root-pressure or
its equivalent, stem-pressure, is quite adequate to provide for the
proper functioning of even the tallest trees.

No attempt will be made at present to explain how this force is
developed. It may be said, however, that we are much interested
in determining if there is a diurnal rhythm in respiration rate to
correspond with the observed rhythm in rate of secretion. It will
take some rather delicate methods to determine that. But it is
believed that we have here a phenomenon which can be studied in
detail and which may throw some light on the mechanism of secretion

SUMMARY

Experiments have shown that excised tomato roots growing in
vitro secrete sap continuously and rhythmically from their proximal
ends. Methods of measuring the force of this secretion have been
developed. It is not retarded by opposed pressures of 90 pounds
per square inch. The secretion force, therefore, probably greatly
exceeds this value. Since a pressure of 90 pounds per square inch is
sufficient to raise water to a height of 200 feet, and since the existence
of such secretion pressures has been demonstrated in normally metab-
olizing, actively growing roots, it is concluded that ‘‘root-pressure”’
may be a far more important factor in sap movement than has been
generally conceded.
“ROOT-PRESSURE”—WHITE 497

REFERENCES
ASKENAZY, E.
1895. Ueber das Saftsteigen. Verh. natur. med. Ver. Heidelberg, n. f.,
vol. 5, pp. 825-345.
Drxon, H. H., and Joty, J.
1895. On the ascent of sap. Phil. Trans. Roy. Soc. London, B 186; pp.
563-576.
Hatsgs, 8.
1727. Vegetable staticks, or an account of some statical experiments on
the sap in vegetables. J. Peele, London.
Huvu, J. G.
1933. Der Einfluss von Aussenfaktoren auf das Bluten der Pflanzen. Planta,
vol. 20, pp. 294-353.
Kniaut, T. A.
1801. Account of some experiments on the ascent of the sap in trees. Phil.
Trans. Roy. Soc. London, B 1801, pp. 333-353.
MourscnH, H.
1902. Ueber localen Blutungsdruck und seine Ursachen. Bot. Zeit., vol.
60, pp. 45-63.
Priestxy, J. H.
1935. Sap ascent in the tree. Science Progress, vol. 117, pp. 42-56.
URSPRUNG, A.
1906. Die Beteiligung lebender Zellen am Saftsteigen. Jahrb. Wiss. Bot.,
vol. 42, pp. 503-544.
Waits, P. R.
1936. Root-pressure developed in isolated tomato roots growing in vitro.
Paper presented before Amer. Soc. Plant Physiol., Atlantic City,
Dec. 1936.
1937. Seasonal fluctuations in growth rates of excised tomato root tips.
Plant Physiol., vol. 12, pp. 183-190.
si 5 7 dd ree ve pan Bienen den eri softs ‘
“ we 4d) = : a ars ehee fs Mite |
ae, is ate ttoaes iesade Batten We Nb oa
f 4 fs he i Arr ie Dh, FS an wig :
nt ‘ if ‘ 3 \ ¢ rf AL sini; Wr ttal aie
ete ag rao i en nptot nah ya
i fie : tw * Aa \ eh fone
7 DOE agri iP ata SEIN bones hel ite Pye:
. . Hag ie EL LORE Ying cam

he , et, sid OTe. ee 3 a
% lyr’, pablo, pines contaget ; me ” Bete wr hye Lier Ne
ee . } Bh

Ge: nS

}
‘

LO ALO ven a | che ~ iy vii tT. apa’ re w Ne Auer ios tae ius
e L r me Mat re) aia hee crear ones { many tt eet a
A eSE A mate Fs reba he ariel a bea wh, 108 Hols cr al na yu icity 8 MO Eh
ee ey, . lie et eres ak oe al

9,

vie

~ We

pS WAY ELE OCT fing i stele sh Ago ordi Via g
) cane sk: Te iti Gia seas [8 SRAM oat
ih Jowey cbarrad iba wy hye nee te jweite yk aoa ral invoan sn
h ‘ate “asl aati 6 24h RE shoe photoes penal | '
7 ha oe Bhi i nea coaEN G ae ae Ft) } nye besa Hib are ¢ r ‘ bn ‘
; | es 7 Wi on
\ ; j hy, t A!
| j ; Paginy y! xy *
uit r J % =
t a
— By ‘ he )
ae ' bie Caled Me Lae whee whiahae'
v ; : S aM 5) i= Ce a se r wT vi fess ai ay
. 27 donate Sine yaaa. s Seamiaeete ries wal ¥ destained
Sy WO = EE OnE 20) Cane SR Cr me ee bola 9 sind im) ae habe ace

ies 2 ae P ™ ~ , * ve Oa pie £4, ‘le ‘tobe chat ia ;
% ‘vidoe: ee Ss Kee a aye axe nh Ine vik a ve 7 nears

J i jn ye
aes 4 an fay j i, hy
Wy ‘ es oe 4 ; wif fom F ; oi wl

Ce9sipeo “Vy ‘¢ Aq Ydevisojoyd) ‘psiNsvoeut sed10j (9[stpIeg

101491008 SJ puv Snyviedde SUIpIODel B OJ Psyov}4e 9q Ud : ‘Vv ‘¢ Aq ydeis0j0oyq) “06 X ‘pues Ie[nosea
jOOI 0JVUIO} O[SUIS B GOIYM Aq ‘durelo [eJoul pus ‘aqny SUT C9stre9 “yf Aq pedojes9p-[[oM 94} sSUIMOYS (O1JIA UI oesessed
-400UU0D JEG qn ‘19JOUIOURUL SSLIS JO SUTJSISUOD ‘A[qUIeSSY ‘¢ Ydvis0joyd) ‘*19JVULOUBUL P9yIe}}B YIM JOOI OVVUIOT, *Z IFS) (LT wnaisiadooh} wnwnj0s') 0}eUI0 JO 100" *T

| 3ALVI1d PUN — 861 *quoday ueluosyzIWG
a hay

THE REPRODUCTION OF VIRUS PROTEINS !?

By W. M. STanLey

Department of Animal and Plant Pathology of The Rockefeller Institute for Medical
Research, Princeton, N. J.

Protoplasm is the stuff of life. It has, for some time, been regarded
as living matter in its simplest form. It has interested biologists for
over 100 years, and has been the subject of extensive physical and
chemical studies. However, the present state of our knowledge of
protoplasm is best attested to by the fact that we are gathered here
in a symposium on the very nature of this material. We know
much about protoplasm, yet we do not know what it really is. There
is a vital difference between the grayish, translucent, slimy proto-
plasm which is the slime molds and the grayish, slimy material of
certain protein gels, yet we do not know exactly what constitutes
this vital difference. Biologists have, for many years, attempted to
differentiate between the living and the nonliving in protoplasm,
without much success. According to Seifriz, many of the older ideas
have been discarded and the discussion has settled down to the
question as to whether a vital substance is concerned or whether proto-
plasm results from a certain combination of substances, themselves
nonliving. Most of the workers appear to feel that life results from
a certain combination of a number of constituent parts, but that if a
single vital substance is essential it is probably a protein or protein
complex. Since viruses have long been considered to be living
organisms and since certain typical viruses have been isolated recently
in the form of high molecular weight proteins, it is obvious that a
careful consideration of the nature of these virus proteins may throw
some light on this question.

Viruses are of unusual interest in this connection, because with
respect to size they bridge the gap between the living and the non-
living. At the upper end of a scale (see fig. 1) which includes entities
ranging in size from the molecule of egg albumin, through viruses, up

1 Read at a symposium of the American Society of Naturalists in joint session with the American Society
of Zoologists, the Botanical Society of America, and the Genetics Society of America. The American
Association for the Advancement of Science, Indianapolis, Ind., December 30, 1937. Reprinted by per-
mission from The American Naturalist, vol. 72, No. 739, March-April 1938.

2 The writer wishes to thank the many individuals who have contributed to the development and
clarification of several of the points discussed in this paper.

499
114728—39—33
500 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938

COMPARATIVE SIZES OF VIRUSES

Molecular Diam. or
weight X 106 length
(Particle weight X width

X6.06 X 10'7)

in mye
Red blood cells* 173 000000 7500
Bacillus prodigiosus * 173 000
Rickettsia * 11100
Psittacosis* 8 500
Vaccinia* 2 300
Myxoma * 2 300 175 a
Canary pox* 2 300
Pleuro-pneumonia organism* 1400
Pseudo rabies 1 400
Ectromelia 1 = 2 @
Herpes simplex 1400
Rabies fixe’ 800
Borna disease a ee ®
Influenza 700 120
Vesicular stomatitis 410 100
Staphylococcus bacteriophage t 300
Fowl plague a a Ld
Ci bacteriophage 173 73
Chicken tumor I * 142 70 @
Tobacco mosaic * 43
Cucumber mosaics 3 and 4 * | SS ae
Gene (Muller's est.of max.size) * 33 125 X 20 —
Latent mosaic of potato * 26 430 X 9.8
Rabbit papilloma (Shope) * 25 40 ®
Equine encephalitis a 38 “
Megatheriurn bacteriophage 23
Rift valley fever 11 30 :
Tomato bushy stunt * 9 28 $
Tobacco ring spot * 74 26 e
Hemocyanin molecule (Busycon)* 6.7 59 X 13.2 a
Yellow fever 43 Po °
Louping ill 2.8 19 :
Hemocyanin molecule (Octopus)* 2.8 64 X 8 =
Poliomyelitis 0.7 12
Staphylococcus bacteriophage t “ 10
Foot-and-mouth disease 0.4
Hemoglobin molecule (Horse)* 0.069  2.8X0.6 [ Yom -
Egg albumin molecule * 0.040 1.8X06 | [ese -

FIGURE 1.
(Explanatory matter on opposite page.)
VIRUS PROTEINS—STANLEY 501

to the red blood cell, it may be seen that certain viruses such as
vaccinia and psittacosis are larger than certain well-recognized
organisms such as the pleuro-pneumonia organism. At the lower
end of the scale certain viruses such as poliomyelitis and yellow fever
viruses are smailer than certain protein molecules. Viruses, there-
fore, form an unbroken line with respect to size from the molecules to
the organisms, and it is impossible at present to draw a dividing line
between the two. Now, let us examine the nature of these agents. I
have said that certain viruses have been isolated in the form of high
molecular weight proteins, and we know that others have been isolated
in the form of heavy materials composed chiefly of protein. The ones
so isolated include those of foot-and-mouth disease, the staphylococcus
bacteriophage, latent mosaic of potato, tobacco ring spot, severe etch,
cucumber mosaic, many strains of tobacco mosaic, the Shope papil-
loma, coli-bacteriophage, the Rous fowl sarcoma, vaccinia and psitta-
cosis. Many of these have been isolated in such small amounts that
it has been impossible to study them adequately, hence it is not known
whether or not they really have the ordinary properties of molecules.
It is possible that some are not molecules, but molecular aggregates or
even small specialized organisms. Methods are now available for the
preparation in adequate amounts of most of these entities, hence it is
but a question of time until sufficient amounts for complete studies
are prepared. However, certain of the virus proteins, notably tobacco
mosaic, have been prepared in such Jarge amounts that rather com-
plete physical, chemical, biological, and serological studies have been
possible. These studies have enabled a rather good yet still incom-
plete understanding of the probable nature of this virus protein.
This afternoon I should like to discuss certain aspects of these studies
which may be of value to us in understanding a bit about the manner
in which protoplasm grows.

Tobacco mosaic virus was first isolated in the form of a high molecu-
lar weight crystalline protein early in 1935. The material first isolated
was not homogeneous in all respects, but since that time it has been
possible to prepare tobacco mosaic virus protein that is homogeneous
with respect to its physical, chemical, biological, and serological
properties. I should like to dwell upon this last statement regarding
the homogeneity of the virus protein only sufficiently to impress upon

A chart showing the relative sizes of several selected viruses, including bacteriophages, as compared to
those of red blood cells, Bacillus prodigiosus, rickettsia, pleuropneumonia organism, and protein mole-
cules. The figures for size have been arbitrarily selected from data avoilable in the literature. Par-
ticles known to be asymmetric are so indicated and the estimated length and width and the molecular
weight in accordance with the asymmetry are given. In other cases where the particles are known or
assumed to be spherical, the diameter and the molecular weight based on a sphere of density 1.3 are given.
*—evidence regarding shape available. t+=Jarge size from filtration and sedimentation of concentrated
solutions and small size from diffusion of dilute solutions. (This figure, which is an enlarged and revised
version of the one originally accompanying this article, is taken from W. M. Stanley, Recent advances
in the study of viruses, in Science in Progress, 1939, Yale University Press, New Haven.)
502 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938

you that, according to all the tests that we have been able to devise,
the protein is homogeneous in all respects, hence pure, hence is the
virus. Among the physical tests that have been used is homogeneity
with respect to rate of sedimentation, as measured in the Svedberg
ultracentrifuge, and homogeneity with respect to electrochemical
behavior, as measured in the electrophoresis cell. Chemical tests for
homogeneity include fractionation of the protein by fractional crystal-
lization and by centrifugation from solution under a variety of condi-
tions, solubility studies, correlation of absorption spectrum with
destruction spectrum and studies on partial inactivation. The bio-
logical tests include the determination of the virus activity of the
various fractions of protein obtained by physical and chemical means.
The serological experiments include precipitin, complement-fixation,
and both in vitro and in vivo anaphylactic tests. In connection with
these tests, you may recall that at the meetings a year ago the protein
as then prepared showed a cross reaction with normal plant protein
when tested by the very sensitive anaphylactic technique. It was
suggested that this cross reaction might be due to the presence of a
fraction of a percent of normal protein as animpurity. This has been
found to be the case, and it is now possible to remove this impurity and
to prepare protein that gives no cross reaction with other material
even by the most sensitive serological tests. Thus, by all the tests
that we have been able to devise, the tobacco mosaic virus protein
appears to be homogeneous. There is always the possibility, of
course, that the virus activity is not due to the high molecular weight
protein but to an impurity that cannot be detected by means now at
our disposal. It should be recognized, however, that, by virtue of the
experimental evidence for homogeneity already available, an impurity
could hardly be other than a closely related high molecular weight
protein, hence it would still follow that the virus is a protein. The
possibility that the activity may be due to an impurity must always
remain, regardless of the material under discussion. However, since
there is no reason to believe that such a situation actually prevails in
the case of the virus protein, we are unable, at the present time, to
conclude other than that the high molecular weight protein under
discussion is the virus. Now, these same tests that indicate that the
virus protein is homogeneous may be used to demonstrate that it
possesses the ordinary properties of molecules. As a matter of fact,
the chemist, after a perusal of the physical and chemical properties of
tobacco mosaic virus protein, has no difficulty whatsoever in coming
to the conclusion that, despite its huge size, it has all the properties of a
molecule and hence is a molecule.

However, we must remember that in addition to the properties
which tobacco mosaic virus protein possesses as a molecule it also
VIRUS PROTEINS—STANLEY 503

possesses virus activity, and the essence of virus activity is reproduc-
tion. Itis this property of the virus proteins that may give us a lead
in our consideration of the growth of protoplasm and in which we are
especially interested this afternoon. Let us examine the facts that
we have at our disposal. The introduction of a few molecules or
perhaps even one molecule of tobacco mosaic virus protein into the
cell of a susceptible host is followed by the production within a very
short time of millions of molecules of the kind introduced. The
production is not confined to the one cell but spreads to adjoining
cells, so that not one cell but millions of cells are involved in the
production of the new molecules of virus protein. We know that the
new virus protein is of the same kind as that originally introduced,
because we can isolate it and compare its properties with the properties
of the virus protein introduced. We say that under such conditions
the virus protein grows or reproduces, for from a few molecules we
secure millions of molecules. Now, what happens when we retain the
virus protein in a test tube or attempt to culture it on cell-free media or
introduce it into dead cells or the cells of nonsusceptible hosts? We
know that nothing happens, the amount of the protein does not in-
crease, reproduction does not occur. Viruses have been found to
reproduce, therefore, only within the living cells of certain susceptible
hosts. I have said that in such cells the introduction of one kind of
molecules results in the production of millions of the same kind. This
is true, but it is not the whole truth, for just as there is this remarkable
tendency for the production of millions of molecules of the same kind,
there is also a remarkable tendency for the production of a very few
slightly different molecules. The subsequent reproduction of such
slightly different molecules gives rise to what we call a new strain, and
the whole phenomenon may be regarded as mutation. We recognize
that such a change has occurred by the symptoms we observe and
because it is possible by suitable technique to isolate such strains.
Thus Jensen has been able to isolate from a pure strain of tobacco
mosaic virus over 50 strains, each of which he considers to be different
and distinctive, and Holmes has been able to isolate a strain of tobacco
mosaic virus that is so mild in its effect on the Turkish tobacco plant
that it is difficult to determine its presence by mere observation. It
might be argued that these various strains existed in the so-called pure
strain as contaminants, but all the evidence obtained by Jensen,
Kunkel, Holmes, and McKinney indicates that the new strains arise
from a single pure strain when reproducing within the plant cells. We
may conclude, therefore, that tobacco mosaic virus protein may
reproduce within the cells of certain hosts and that when it does it
tends to mutate and to give rise to new strains. Now, this ability
to reproduce and to mutate only when within the living cells of certain
504 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938

hosts is a property that we have not hitherto ascribed to ordinary
molecules. We know, of course, certain autocatalytic reactions, such
as the conversion of trypsinogen into trypsin in vitro on the addition
of a little trypsin, in which a protein molecule appears to be reproduc-
ing itself, yet we also know that in such instances the precursor is
chemically quite similar to the end product. The situation prevailing
in the case of tobacco mosaic virus appears to be different, for here we
have found no evidence for the existence of a precursor similar to the
virus protein and the reaction has so far been carried out only within
living cells. Despite the fact that the net result of virus reproduction
may be regarded as similar to that of an autocatalytic reaction, there
is at this time no precedent for regarding the reaction itself as a true
autocatalytic reaction. I feel that it is better to admit our ignorance,
as long as we are forced to the inside of a living cell to achieve a set of
conditions in which to conduct our autocatalytic reaction. It is a
fact that we do not know all that goes on within a living cell and,
despite many attempts to duplicate it or the set of conditions pre-
vailing within, we have been unsuccessful. We are forced to conclude,
therefore, that, although tobacco mosaic virus protein has the ordinary
properties of molecules, it also has the ability to reproduce and to
mutate, properties not ordinarily ascribed to molecules, and hence
that tobacco mosaic virus protein represents an entity unfamiliar to
us. Now, we may speculate concerning its nature and the manner in
which it reproduces and mutates. I wish to impress upon you that
this portion of the discussion is not based upon fact, but upon fancy.

Let us first consider whether tobacco mosaic virus differs from ordi-
nary living organisms. The fact that it has proved impossible to
cultivate tobacco mosaic virus in the absence of living cells is fre-
quently cited as evidence that it differs in nature from ordinary living
organisms. However, this property of obligate intracellular para-
sitism is not peculiar to viruses, for there are certain organisms that
are known to be obligate parasites and to require the presence of
living cells for reproduction. I do not feel, therefore, that our failure
to cultivate viruses on synthetic media necessarily means that they
differ from bacteria. The fact that tobacco mosaic virus protein may
by crystallized has also been cited as evidence that it is not a living
organism. Yet we know that crystallization is merely orientation
and that orientation occurs in many living systems. Stretched muscle
is orientated and gives an X-ray diffraction pattern that is character-
istic of the crystalline state. At certain stages of cell division orien-
tation occurs within the nucleus, for it becomes highly doubly refrac-
tive. Ido not feel, therefore, that the fact that we can cause tobacco
mosaic virus protein to line up in orderly fashion need necessarily
mean that it is nonliving. No evidence has been obtained that
viruses have cell walls, and this might be used as a basis for estab-
VIRUS PROTEINS—STANLEY 505

lishing a difference were it not for the fact that the slime molds appear
to grow without well-differentiated cell walls. The absence of a cell
wall, therefore, need not necessarily mean that tobacco mosaic virus
is nonliving. Tobacco mosaic virus protein appears to possess a
definite solubility, and it might be expected that this might be used
as a distinguishing characteristic. However, if an organism were
sufficiently small you might expect it to be governed by the ordinary
laws of physics and chemistry. Furthermore, this property is rela-
tive, for if you move your point of reference to the inside of a whirling
centrifuge the virus protein loses this property and settles out as
would any bacterial suspension. Another point that may be con-
sidered is respiration, for it is well known that nobody has been able
to demonstrate that viruses respire, whereas it is usually possible to
show that living things respire. However, even this point fails us,
for we know that it is difficult, if not impossible, to demonstrate respi-
ration in the cases of some living things, such as certain seeds or bac-
terial spores. It is obvious that we can take up the supposed differ-
ences and eliminate them one by one when considered individually.
However, when we consider these differences collectively, one is not
quite so certain, and I think you will agree with me that there is a
tendency for a reasonable doubt as to whether viruses are really
similar in all respects to organisms. This doubt becomes even
stronger when we consider one additional factor, namely, the size
of viruses. I have already pointed out that certain viruses are
smaller than accepted protein molecules. We have always assumed
that a certain degree of complexity was necessary for life. In its
simplest form this complexity might conceivably be represented by
the interplay of a very few, perhaps even two, molecules. It may
appear very questionable whether or not the degree of complexity
characteristic of living organisms can be woven into a single molecule.
However, argument based on size alone is not valid over the whole
range, for, if we consider vaccinia virus a molecule, we know that
into an entity of the same size can be woven the degree of complexity
under discussion, for the pleuro-pneumonia organism is just such an
entity. Nevertheless, I think there must be a difference between
entities, the properties of which may in one case be ascribed to the
interplay of several molecules within a definite system and in the
other case to a peculiar type of organization within one molecule.
It may be possible to weave into one large molecule a structure that
may be responsible for properties which are quite similar to the prop-
erties caused by the interaction of several different molecules in a
living system. I think that we may conclude, therefore, that,
although it is impossible to decide whether viruses are different
from ordinary organisms on the basis of any one of the differences,
506 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938

the collective picture strongly indicates that there is a difference be-
tween viruses and ordinary organisms as we know them.

It is interesting to speculate as to whether or not the fundamental
difference is that in the virus proteins we have an example of the
vital substance of protoplasm. The virus proteins isolated so far
have been found to be nucleo-proteins having unusually high molecular
weights. It may be possible that in this chemical combination of
nucleic acid and high molecular weight protein we have sufficient
organization within a single molecule to endow it with the lifelike
properties that characterize it. Such an entity might be regarded
as the simplest type of organism, an organism from which all extrane-
ous material has been removed and which has become so highly
parasitic that it can reproduce only under very special conditions.
Green has already pointed out that an intracellular microbe might
be expected to undergo a loss of function due to the assumption of
such function by the surrounding protoplasm. Such retrograde
evolution he states might progress to the point where only a single
molecule remains, and this molecule would be expected to possess
unusual properties but would be functionally complete only when
immersed in protoplasm. We would, therefore, have an entity pos-
sessing all the physical and chemical properties of a molecule and at
the same time the potential properties of an organism, without it
itself being a functionally complete organism. It is obvious that this
description fits the virus proteins. It may be that there is something
intermediate between such an entity and ordinary living organisms.
Studies on some of the larger viruses such as vaccinia should settle
this point. Whatever the outcome of these studies, it seems unlikely
that they will alter our conception of the smaller viruses; henee we
may proceed with our discussion of the virus proteins.

It is interesting to speculate on the manner in which tobacco mosaic
virus protein brings about the production of more of the same kind
of molecules when placed in contact with the protoplasm of certain
cells. This mechanism is of tremendous importance because it is
possible that it or a similar one may be responsible for the production
of all the specific protein molecules as well as other molecules within
living cells. It may be considered to be the very basis of life. I
think we may dismiss at once the mechanism by means of which cells
divide and thus reproduce, for we are interested in a more fundamental
mechanism, the one by means of which the cell grows until it is in a
position for the second mechanism to operate. It seems unlikely to
me that the basic mechanism is one in which the virus protein absorbs
food, discards waste, grows and at some proper moment divides into
two molecules after the manner of cells. A mechanism that I like to
consider is one based on the surface forces which Dr. Langmuir has
demonstrated so vividly in recent years and some of which he described
VIRUS PROTEINS—STANLEY 507

on Tuesday. You all know how readily you can induce crystalliza-
tion of substances by merely introducing a tiny crystal of the material
into a saturated solution. The atoms come out of the solution and
line up in a fashion that is predetermined by the pattern presented
in the form of the introduced crystal. In some of the complex silicates
such as Na Fe,Al,4B,Si,2.0;. you may have from five to ten different
components present in the solution and yet they all arrange themselves
according to the pattern that is presented to them. In some instances,
this tendency to assume a definite arrangement is so strong that
apparently it may occur without the addition of the pattern or crystal
seed. In other instances, the arrangement or crystallization will not
occur without the pattern first being present. Well do Il remember
the time at school when a certain compound was synthesized for the
first time in this country. Despite repeated attempts under all kinds
of conditions, the material could not be caused to crystallize. How-
ever, when a small amount of the material in crystalline form, which
had been obtained from abroad, was added, the compound synthesized
in this country crystallized quite readily, and since then it has been
possible to crystallize the material without knowingly adding seed
crystals. We say that the laboratory has become “seeded,” that
small amounts of such crystals probably occur throughout the
laboratory. Here, therefore, we have an example of an arrangement
that was dependent upon the presence of a pattern and a demonstra-
tion that chemically undetectable amounts of material are probably
sufficient to serve as a pattern. The forces responsible for this
orientation may appear mysterious, yet they are definite and specific
and they are real.

Now, let us consider first what may happen on the introduction of
a virus protein molecule into a certain cell, and then consider whether
or not we may interpret the growth of protoplasm in terms of this
happening. It seems likely that in a living cell there exists a vast
array of compounds ranging perhaps from salts and simple amino
acids, through intermediate compounds such as carbohydrates and
polypeptides, to complex compounds such as proteins. Consider
whether the virus protein molecule is able through a characteristic
structure and the surface forces that I have described to cause all the
component parts to come from this storehouse of materials and to line
up in orderly fashion alongside the pattern. If we may assume this
degree of orientation, then I think we may assume that, inasmuch as
the intact virus protein molecule represents a more stable form, there
will be a mutual solvation of forces with the formation of the intact
molecule which is then freed from its original pattern and ready to
begin its own cycle. I have pictured this happening in a rather naive
manner for the sake of simplification. Actually, the synthesis of pro-
teins probably results from a series of interrelated chemical reactions
508 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938

that are catalyzed by intracellular enzymes. In this connection it is
interesting to consider that the final step to which I just referred may
consist of chemical reactions catalyzed by the virus protein itself. It
may be regarded as being similar to an ordinary enzymatic reaction
except that in this case the intracellular reaction is catalyzed by the
same kind of molecules that are introduced. It is obvious that for
the successful operation of this mechanism there must be present in
the protoplasm all the necessary component parts. If one or more is
missing, the virus protein cannot be built up. This serves to explain
the specificity of viruses, for a virus would be expected to reproduce
only in protoplasm containing the component parts of the virus mole-
cule introduced. There is some evidence that tobacco mosaic virus
protein is built from such component parts and not from the large
proteins normally built up in such cells, for this virus protein repro-
duces itself in both Turkish tobacco and phlox plants, and it has been
found by sensitive serological methods that the proteins normally
existing in these plants are quite different. This is an indication
that the virus protein is built up from smaller serologically inactive
units that must be common to both plants.

Now, if we may assume this mechanism for the reproduction of
the virus proteins, may we not assume a similar mechanism for the
production of all the proteins that are synthesized within the cell, and
hence for the growth of protoplasm? We know that some virus pro-
teins reproduce quite rapidly and others more slowly, hence there
must in the first instance be a tendency for the reaction to proceed
rapidly and in the latter instance for it to proceed more slowly.
Whether this tendency be real or result from the relative lack of a
given component, if it exists, it would, together with the mechanism
that has been discussed, be sufficient to explain not only the various
factors involved in the reproduction of the virus proteins but also the
orderly manner of the growth of protoplasm. There could be explained
in this manner the reproduction of virus proteins, their reproduction
only in certain living cells, the rapid rate of reproduction in some cases
and the slow rate in others, the change or mutation of one strain into
one or more other strains, the immunity from other strains that results
from infection with one strain and the failure of one virus to immunize
against a different one. Furthermore, we see that the possibility of
synthesizing virus proteins in the absence of living cells is not denied us,
for such synthesis should occur provided the necessary components
are provided and the proper conditions are achieved. If we are ever
able to synthesize virus proteins in the absence of living cells, then we
shall have gone a long way toward the synthesis of protoplasm.

I should, perhaps, remind you at this point that I am speaking of
fancy and not of fact. I think it well occasionally to assemble all the
facts at our disposal, to use them as a foundation and then to allow
VIRUS PROTEINS—STANLEY 509

our thoughts and fancy to proceed and lead us where they may into
the unknown, disregarding the absence of facts that so far we have
been unable to wrest from nature. At worst, we may become imbued
with erroneous impressions—and even they have occasionally been
beneficial; at best, we may secure ideas that will enable us to establish
as facts the very ones that gave rise to the ideas. Whatever may be
your attitude with respect to this point, I think that you will agree
with me when I say that the elucidation of the manner in which the
virus proteins reproduce will serve to give us a clearer picture of the
manner in which protoplasm grows. Because certain of the virus
proteins are available in large amounts and lend themselves readily to
experimentation, I think that we are now in excellent position to pur-
sue with great expectation the problem of the reproduction of the
virus proteins and eventually that more interesting problem concern-
ing protoplasmic growth.
“iis ie RADA fs COST, OAD Tt ea 990th ha

-
Ne El een BRB, (aie Oe Bain tants diya tly
‘hgey \ eu Sissies ’ (DAY Oe a 96 Hae ition . ty iithat a Livers
PN AR aed, Hd 12h mapa Tea Ore bina wien tiie: Wai wat AlveTs ‘mn

heath t mCP of Nn Ped he To! ti Poh Tre hoe Sei an iagleangy

iia hele a
ms Lio beste "

eran et yeter men reese cubeubent cided
“Heoregit thie eva gies teh dE nto OE OP pret
twee oie NE she? Oe DS HOLD EY OHO Tit and Toner
Wid To otic LLANES 8 aur YDS OP GPE Ree moe
AP A to Fina wayseee sbvrertg Mianlipomoty” iid 5
‘eb diheyy eoitastttody baal bid shutout ah hairs
‘aaa? OY Hubtisory Jcol bod nt woe Wir OOD Slate Pookie
BINH rola boigey Aili Io inattoty wit}! Holtwiodegxe 1
‘eultie inohdolse ey tie iit prow Madd Yostnints eu Bit
lunep heed ny ude Duriash tobntee aiden dderdiry afectainlige

tanpd dip: qonatiow: derctojtion| conhivhe that Ohm. npkeiee

magn Sikeetd hess: Liye PASE: ote ited lifforenit. Lae ia) A i :

ea teb la: Hire oe tiie Bailie fret Amaley! sepnlde telly A

atlas Rete bo ena tas es sae iT An xin Bil, ; ihe Tha 6 abe i
tabi Dey pa UR: aja tl side th a Mite 1,4 wire ek ral fy ( ti nee,’
At SOOO te ake hota Lim That ah ER Perey Ae perry . 4 ie
Cpe aE Bel fe dg Mowe: ame bt), Gay union wh 0 a shorvel

PPT: COS Oi OF te tinta AS, wee: Sambo Wiha eh

:
thw ties tu ering: ba el lee. da ehtelae vind

TA a Ce UM Wel SES Baie ene pa ky ho ei Mirai yove |
OTaerty wait yl Lhe Sewell al polenta, 0! Teg

70, Mjig Ue ROL.) t8 caginonsuo TALE it WIG Sp cite
ik Rds Moni nie a, Satay yaomed co tehal! vq merece eaten ‘ rey
BIAS Tere tales Agrees, thin Mine Te edn of de aitain ay
(OV Gir woiinw at her soraine. tee ited pi bp iin onl Pg eeng 14 nent
risiea Hr scrvia ins Woh CTY ETE aati fae Cae pf ohoer iia. ae ae Ak
Lee vie . iy Hyg OA er ehaereii,) Weed ti) ihe toe
TR RRS n saa, prem Nitin whiten uid fAivings tala bu pipe
ine such tes Drews: pees an LOMAS im THN 9G 6

wits ’

WO TOON AGT Aa a a adie irapte raakst iMnsvinys oa MSU ath, i “i ‘¢. ra
; abt on Ast hati vice $F verte w ; eho Abner af. ell es
aia Is th zis hoses, wine Acuwmhck ¢ tlie arnthady ei ie

i iat) Yaron tae ironstone Marth ia: Onin Khnt. he
Cnbinye mavedctont oh tact. Pvabe TY mel gmembanl ely Ws,
ii ac data sasetinndd Ay bana iis dn a madras

ty
Cy
MODERN MEDICINE—THE CROSSROADS OF THE
SOCIAL AND THE PHYSICAL SCIENCES!

By Cuarues Austin Doan, B.S., M. D., F. A. C. P.

In acknowledging the honor you have done the section on medical
sciences in permitting one of its members to serve as your president
during the past year, may I say first of all that we interpret your action
as a recognition of the emergence of medical practice from an ancient
and honorable art into a modern, dynamic science of health. Disease
has existed on the earth as long as organic life has been known. The
archeologist, the geologist, the anthropologist, the explorer, have all
contributed affirmative evidence of this belief. The earliest inter-
pretable record dates back some 4 million years according to the
accepted geological calculation of time, and represents a form of
parasitism—fossil snails in the act of feeding on crinoids, a species of
sea lily. From that time on, as the fossil remains of the earth’s
earliest inhabitants unfold the story of life before the advent of man,
there appears mute evidence of disease as revealed by skeletal abnor-
malities—fractures, carious teeth, bone necroses—in the now extinct
fishes and reptiles. The tsetse fly, today’s deadly carrier of cattle
plague and African sleeping sickness, has been identified in fossil
formations dating back a million and a half years.

Man’s arrival on the scene seems to have been greeted by the same
onslaught of disease that met the various forms of plant and animal
life which preceded him. The “Java man,” placed by anthropologists
as the precursor of the human race with an estimated age of 500,000
years, shows pathological exostoses of the femur. The ‘“Piltdown
man,” with an estimated age of 100,000 years and considered the
oldest human skeleton yet discovered, has an acromegalic skull. The
“Neanderthal man,” spanning 75,000 years of elapsed time, has sug-
gested rickets to some anthropologists.

The history and scientific beginnings of medicine extend back to the
ancient Egyptians of the very first civilization of which we have
written record, some 30 centuries before the rise of the better known
Hippocratic school at Cos in Greece. The Smith Surgical Papyrus
and the Ebers Medical Papyrus, ancient hieroglyphic records of the

1 Presidential address delivered before the Ohio Academy of Science, May 14, 1937. Reprinted by per-
mission from The Ohio Journal of Science, vol. 37, No. 4, July 1937.
511
H12 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938

diagnosis and treatment of disease as practiced some 3,500 years
B. C., carry recognizable descriptions of many diseases prevalent in
the modern-day world. The observations of the beloved late Prof.
Elliott Smith, who by 1930 had examined the remains of some 30,000
ancient Egyptians and Nubians representing every period of the last
60 centuries, and the microscopic studies by the late Mare Armand
Ruffer of carefully restored and sectioned mummified tissues, each
independently bear direct testimony to the diversity and similarity of
human pathologic processes, then and now.

Thus, from time immemorial man has dreamed and speculated and
philosophized about the nature and the significance of life, and has
shuddered and shrunk and fled from famine and war and pestilence.
This amazing world in each succeeding epoch has presented an ever
increasing variety of problems, which have challenged the best minds
of each age. At the very extreme of complexity, and the last to be
satisfactorily approached for solution on a rational scientific basis have
been the problems of human health and disease. The true physician
has ever stood at the crossroads, receiving the slowly and painfully
accumulated facts from any and every scientific source, and has then
appropriated, reinterpreted, and applied them in the alleviation of
human misery and suffering. As a result, like the shedding of a
chrysalis, the basis for health was transformed at the turn of the cen-
tury from a speculative, descriptive, cumbersome classification of dis-
ease to an exact experimental science for the accumulation of verifiable
facts about disease. Today, we are seeing the natural result of this
metamorphosis in method and technique, derived from the basic natu-
ral sciences, in a transfer of the major emphasis in medicine from empir-
icism to mechanism—from the ‘‘cure”’ of disease to the ‘‘prevention”’
of disease. One by one superstitions based upon error, or upon incom-
plete knowledge, are giving way to more exact methods of procedure,
until we may envisage the composite, ideal physician of the future as
embodying an appreciation and a working knowledge of all of the
intricacies of fact deriving from the social as well as from the physical
sciences.

If there is any lesson which we of this era should have learned from
the past it is the basic necessity for cooperative effort. If the common
problems which civilized man faces today are to be solved successfully,
the cooperative intelligence of many minds, wherever existing, irre-
spective of race, color, creed, or narrow sectarian viewpoint, must be
focused sharply upon them. Peace—progress—our very existence are
seriously threatened through failure to appreciate fully the universality
of this fundamental principle—applied economically, socially, and
politically, as well as scientifically. Medical leadership in recent years
has perhaps recognized this challenge more clearly, and realized its
sine qua non for survival more fully, than many in other walks of life.
MODERN MEDICINE—DOAN 513

Epidemic disease is no respecter of geographic and racial boundaries,
or of economic, political, and social differences, and medical science
has had to look to and embrace the intellects capable of solving its
problems wherever they have appeared on the face of the earth. More-
over, medical leaders everywhere cooperate in an international health
cordon for the dissemination and application of this knowledge, as it
becomes available. With transportation and intercommunication in
the world today, such that a yellow-fever-carrying mosquito in an
airplane wing on the west coast of Africa this morning, may tomorrow
be either in continental Europe or South America, and mayhap the
next day on our own eastern seaboard, one cannot evade the reality
of the imminence of invasion by disease, even though there be some
difference of opinion as to the immediate significance of such feats, with
reference to other more obvious forms of invasion.

We may agree, perhaps, then, that one of the most important func-
tions being subserved by medical science in the present day is its exem-
plification of the necessity for, and its demonstration of the ways and
means of organization and administration toward, cooperative effort
within the nation and between nations. I need only cite the White
House Conference on Child Health and Protection during President
Hoover’s administration, which resulted in the pooling and critical
analysis of our scant information in this basic field and the defining of
objectives, which since have been methodically and intelligently and
cooperatively pursued; or the activities during the past decade under
the Research Committee of the National Tuberculosis Association,
which has integrated and correlated the research programs in some
14 universities, 3 research institutes, and 2 large pharmaceutical firms,
directed toward the better understanding and control, by treatment
and prevention, of this great white plague; or the diversified activi-
ties and integrating functions of the National Research Council and
the A. A. A. S., of which this Ohio Academy of Science is a worthy
satelite, for the cross-fertilization of scientific ideas in the broadest
sense; or the nation-wide programs for venereal disease and cancer
control which are being inaugurated at the present time in this country
after the successful mass application of present medical knowledge to
these identical problems of disease in Britain and the Scandinavian
countries; or the American, British, and League of Nations cooperat-
ing committees on the study and control of chronic arthritis, represent-
ing a group of crippling, painful, and economically hazardous diseases,
which are increasingly challenging the health and happiness of civilized
peoples; or the first international conference on fever therapy held in
New York City last month with official representatives from the Min-
istries of Health of 16 countries; or the International Physiological
Congress meeting in Boston 2 years ago, and the International Asso-
ciation of Geographic Pathology meeting in Stockholm this summer
514 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938

with ‘‘anemia”’ as it affects different people in different parts of the
world, the topic for discussion for the entire meeting; or, finally, the
International Health Board under the Rockefeller Foundation, which
through the years has led in the encouragement of the development
and exchange of men and ideas in matters relating to world health
problems.

It may not be too late to hope, or too egotistical or remote for
scientific groups, such as this Academy represents, to believe that
many, if not all, of our present seemingly insurmountable economic and
social problems would yield more readily and happily to human inge-
nuity and intelligence, if our leaders and their respective followers were
alike endowed with a larger share of their rightful heritage of normal
mental and physical health. To that end all such gatherings as the
present one contribute more or less directly, and when and if, and not
until, the ideal integration of a genetically sound psyche with an opti-
mum somatic and environmental background has been accomplished,
will the essential keystone to the arch of human relationships have been
provided. ‘“The promise of things hoped for, the essence of things yet
unseen,’’? implied in the present material accomplishments of the
human race, are alluring to contemplate but impossible to prophesy
fully.

The experience of the past half century, during which the spectacular
acquisition and practical utilization of knowledge appertaining to the
basic organization and reactions of matter has been paralleled by an
equally active exploration of the form, composition, and functions of
living cells and organisms, provides an increasing number of instances
in which the two approaches have interacted to the mutual advantage
of each. Studies of the applicability of X-rays to the problems of
medicine were begun within a few months after the announcement of
their discovery by the physicist Roentgen. Radium and radioactive
substances have likewise been appropriated by physicians as rapidly
as isolated and concentrated in needles and bombs for therapeutic
purposes. Deuterium had hardly been isolated by Urey and confirmed
by Johnson and other chemists until its biological significance was
being explored, even before all of its chemical properties were known.
The high-frequency, short-wave radio field was no sooner found to be
the source of discomfort to men working within its immediate vicinity
because of the production of fever and malaise, than Whitney of the
General Electric Company recognized its potential therapeutic sig-
nificance and at once enlisted the aid of physicians and bacteriologists
and placed the resources of his laboratories at their disposal in the
development of this approach to fever therapy. Kettering of the
General Motors Research Laboratories followed promptly, designating
himself a technical collaborator with the medical investigators in
applying modern engineering methods to developing and adapting new
MODERN MEDICINE—DOAN 515

apparatus for experimentation and therapy. Last week a headline in
the New York Times, reporting the meetings of the American Physical
Society, read: ‘‘Progress is made in ‘taming’ neutron.”’ The next sub-
heading in capital letters only a little less prominent, read: ‘‘Physicists
are told of Columbia work bringing nearer a powerful aid for Medicine.”
The X-ray, the gamma rays of radium, the high-frequency current and
now the cyclotron. The physicist, the electrical engineer, and the
physician have formed a liaison in which each is mutually dependent
upon the other. Just as the biologist has been directing the chemist
as to which fractions were biologically “active” or physiologically
significant—and therefore most important to analyze and synthesize
in terms of human health—so the comparative value of the different
physical agents developed in the physical laboratories is being ap-
praised and evaluated by the medical investigator as rapidly as
evolved. The artificial induction of therapeutic fever by various phys-
ical means was inevitable after von Jauregg observed in his Vienna
Sanatarium that general paralysis of the insane frequently improved
following an intercurrent febrile infection; and, then, had the courage
of his convictions, sufficiently, to induce fever reactions by inoculating
selected patients under his care with the malaria plasmodium. Keen-
ness of observation was thus followed by inductive reasoning, the test
of therapy was successfully applied, and, finally, the bateriological,
cellular, and humoral mechanisms by which improvement is accom-
plished are just now becoming clear. It is of peculiar interest and sig-
nificance that the first effective treatment for syphilis of the central
nervous system was dependent upon the introduction of another dis-
ease, malaria, which through the years, until Ross, McCallum, et al.,
discovered its cause and control, had been one of man’s worst enemies,
and still is in some parts of the world. The ingenuity of the physician
is exemplified at its best in such an instance, where in discovering how
to conquer one disease, he learned enough to make it his servant in
conquering still another scourge of mankind. With the demonstration
of the thermolability of the Treponema pallidum and of the gonococcus
at human fever temperatures the importance of fever per se in these
diseases has been emphasized and the development of physical means
for the induction of fever followed naturally and inevitably.

Another example of shrewd inductive reasoning based upon keen
observation by a prepared medical mind occurred during the World
War. Baer, an orthopedic surgeon with the American Expeditionary
Forces, noted that injured soldiers evacuated some hours after severe
injury and with wounds teeming with fly larvae, were less frequently
found in profound shock and seemed to have a less stormy convales-
cence, than men with similar but uninfested wounds. After a decade of
pondering this observed fact, during which time children with infected

114728—39——-34
516 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938

and crippling bone lesions returned to him constantly with recur-
rences and metastatic disseminations, despite the most careful applica-
tion of modern medical and surgical measures, he developed the cour-
age of his convictions. Soliciting the aid of David Miller and other
zoologists with an intimate knowledge of the life cycle of the maggot,
methods for the reproduction of fly larvae under sterile precautions
were developed. In the beginning, some enzyme or chemically active
secretion was hypothesized as the active principle; and now allantoin
has been identified by the chemists as the effective substance and is
replacing the original less esthetic maggot treatment of Mother Nature
and the observant surgeon.

Whipple, while studying the comparative value of different foods
in the regeneration of hemoglobin in dogs following hemorrhage, dis-
covered that liver was invariably most effective. Minot and Murphy,
knowing of these experiments, then, observed that liver fed in sufficient
quantities to human patients with pernicious anemia resulted in a
prompt and sustained remission. Chemists promptly fractionated
liver, and many other tissues, with the eventual isolation of the active
erythrocyte maturation principle in a purified and simplified solution
suitable for parenteral administration, thus saving the lives of many
sufferers from this disease who would rather have died than eat a
pound of liver daily for the remainder of their lives. Only later came
the keen analysis of Castle, which firmly established pernicious anemia
as a deficiency disease dependent upon the exhaustion of an essential
hormone in the stomach, and demonstrated that the erythrocyte
maturation factor stored in the liver, normally, is the resultant of the
interaction of the gastric hormone known as the ‘“‘intrinsic factor’
with an essential dietary or ‘‘extrinsic factor’? contained in animal
protein.

One of the great modern advances in the science of medicine has
been the realization that all disease is not necessarily the result of some
external circumstance or bacterial invasion, and that there is a dis-
tinction between “optimum” health and ‘apparent’ health, i. e.,
between good, better, and best. Vitamine and endocrine researches
in recent years have done most to exemplify the potential threat to
health and well-being of deficiency in these vital elements. The chemist
and the physician here combine their resources again in the funda-
mental problems which underlie the deficiency states. Night blindness,
ophthalmia, pyorrhea alveolaris, and urinary calculi suggest vitamin A
insufficiency. Polyneuritis follows a vitamin B-1 deficiency, and
pellagra with dermatitis, pigmentation of the skin, glossitis, stomatitis,
and, at times, mental disturbances may be symptomatic of vitamin B-2
complex deficiency. Easy bruising, oozing of the gums, or unexplained
oedema may reflect a vitamin C inadequacy, and rickets and dental
caries have largely disappeared where adequate vitamin D is available
MODERN MEDICINE—DOAN 517

in the body economy. A lack of calcium may lead to hyperirritability
of the neuro-muscular mechanism, tetany. A deficiency in iron leads
to hypochromic anemia, and, if iodine is not available, the thyroid
gland suffers. In this connection it is important to remember that
interference with absorption or utilization of essential specific principles
may be quite as significant in producing symptoms as their absence
from the diet.

Also a new principle in disease has been recognized very recently
through the increasing knowledge of the interdependence and interac-
tion of vital physiologic functions between widely separated and appar-
ently unrelated organs. If the function of one is impaired the normal
function of the other may lead to premature or untimely invalidism or
death. As examples, may be cited the removal of the normal thyroid
gland to recompensate the damaged heart—or the elimination of the
spleen in selected instances where it acts to inhibit or make less
effective the production of blood cells by the bone marrow.

One of the most fascinating fields for speculation and further investi-
gation at the present moment lies with the ultramicroscopic viruses.
Since the original demonstration of the infectious properties of filter-
passing sera from which neither aerobic nor anaerobic bacteria
could be cultivated, the question of the ultimate nature of these agents
has been warmly debated. Do they represent minute living and
propagating protoplasmic bodies or are they more nearly comparable
to chemical hormones or enzymes? Within the past few months
Stanley, plant pathologist at the Rockefeller Institute, Princeton, has
reported the isolation, purification, and chemical crystallization of the
agent which produces mosaic disease in the tobacco plant. Thus,
the possibility of an entirely new set of biological phenomena related
to complex chemical molecules is suggested, and the differential criteria
separating animate and inanimate molecular structures are reduced
almost to the vanishing point. Many of the workers in this field at
the present time, while accepting the nonviable nature of tobacco
mosaic virus, still believe that other of the viruses may be the earliest
and most primitive forms of living matter. Chemistry and biology
must, therefore, again function together as handmaidens to pathology.

The plant and the animal pathologist often serve as pioneers in
exploring territories in which diseases common also to man exist.
Laidlaw’s investigations of distemper in dogs and his development
of an immune vaccine and therapeutic serum, have given fresh impetus
and direction to the search for an effective control of the common cold
inman. And Shope’s study of the swine influenza which appeared in
1918, coincident with the world-wide spread of human influenza,
identified a common etiology for the two diseases through common
immunologic reactions. Shope found, however, that in swine it required
both a filterable virus and a bacterium closely similar to, if not identi-
518 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938

cal with, the Pfeiffer or influenza bacillus to cause the disease, a prin-
ciple similar to one originally postulated by David Smith for lung
abscess.

But the devotees of both the social and the natural sciences are
facing still another problem of increasing significance and major
importance today. Whereas famine and war and pestilence have
acted jointly, and frequently coincidently, in the past in the role of
Lord High Executioner for the race, and mediators of the law of the
“survival of the fittest,” it is no longer the physical so much as the
social and economic forces attendant upon the transition from a slow-
tempo agrarian to a high-tempo industrial civilization, which are pick-
ing out the constitutionally unfit and eliminating the psychobiologi-
cally inferior. The American disease, as Emerson, Bateman, and
others have designated it, challenges the best effort and skill of the
modern physician and social worker. This disease camouflages
under numerous and varied symptomatologies, but the common
denominator of them all is the highly altered tension under which life
is lived today, as contrasted with a few decades ago. The human
body is a delicately adjusted, exceedingly complex mechanism with
very definite limitations which vary constitutionally from individual
to individual. The psyche is more important to its proper functioning
than many of the organic processes which have received such careful
and detailed study in the past. The central nervous system of man
by the very nature of its integrating, governing, and association func-
tions reflects this crowning achievement in organic evolution on the
earth today. The material creations of this collective brain, never-
theless, are not being ‘‘intelligently’”’ directed and mastered and kept
servile to objectives and ends, which would be for the best interests of
theraceasawhole. Annihilation awaits those who either individually
or collectively fail to recognize the “handwriting on the wall.” The
social and natural sciences must together advance even more clearly
and definitely into this domain of modern life and, with increasing
factual data upon which to base judgments, make certain that a leader-
ship fully conscious of the lurking dangers as well as the potential
possibilities directs our destinies.

Claude Bernard, one of the great physiologists of all time, had rare
insight into the dominating motivation of those men of science he
designated as the Truth Seekers: ‘Ardent desire for knowledge, and
this knowledge really grasped, and yet always flying before them,
becomes at once their sole torment and sole happiness. Those who do
not know the torment of the unknown cannot have the joy of discov-
ery, which is certainly the liveliest that the mind of man can ever feel.
But, by a whim of Nature, the joy of discovery, so sought and hoped
for, vanishes as soon as found. It is but a flash, whose gleam discovers
for us fresh horizons toward which our insatiate curiosity repairs with
MODERN MEDICINE—DOAN 519

still more ardor. Thus, even in science itself, the known loses its
attraction, while the unknown is always full of charm.”’ Or as Pascal
put it: “We are in search never of things but of the search for things.’

The section of medical sciences in the Ohio Academy of Science
salutes you, the underlying, fundamental sciences from which are
synthesized new and more effective and essential answers to these
problems of individual and community health. We acknowledge
gratefully the past contributions upon which medical progress has been
built, and solicit a continuing, ever more intimate, and productive
liaison, in the best interests of—let us hope—a rising and not a waning
civilization.
salve ;

he” tie
aor
‘a Ws

-_ sce’ NA

Pic ey ay breanita oxen tus ind sR
ia bi dist’ PES fin) as Maa | vt a : . vga Y 6 ai shine atts

dha vie

ner f

HISTORY AND STRATIGRAPHY IN THE VALLEY OF
MEXICO!

By Grorae C. VAILLANT
Associate Curator of Mexican Archeology, American Museum of Natural History

[With 13 plates]

Indian Mexico has a past, but not a history. Thousands of mounds
are scattered over the country, and in regions suitable for agriculture
the plow constantly produces the shattered vessels and tools of van-
ished people. The modern Mexicans also show their heritage from
the past. Thirty-nine percent of them are pure Indian, and another 53
percent are liberally infused with Indian blood. Even as in Italy,
where both the citizens and the land which gives them life bear witness
to the background of the Roman Empire, so in Mexico one feels and
sees the all-pervading influence of the Indian.

Yet where the Roman past is part of the historical instruction of
every schoolboy, the history of Indian Mexico is to most of us a closed
book, and even the professional scholar finds that most of its pages
are blank. The reasons for the gaps in the historical record are
threefold: The Europeanization of Mexico, with the consequent
indifference to Indian matters; the conscious destruction of native
documents as idolatrous in the days of the evangelization of the
country; and the rarity in Mexico of Indian tribes with a knowledge
of writing which would enable them to keep historical records.

The history of Mexico, from its Conquest in 1519 to the Revolution
of 1910, has emphasized the fortunes of European overlords and their
relations to each other and the outside world. The overwhelming
Indian preponderance in the population has been by no means bal-
anced by similar representation in the economic and the social world.
For 4 centuries, Europe, with all the guile and brute force of its state
and with all the spiritual powers of its church, has striven to eradicate
from the Indian all traces of his native culture. Since the Revolution
of 1910, there has been a conscious effort to transform the Indian
population from serfdom into active participation in the social and
economic life of the country. With this recognition of the Indian as
a potential citizen there has come in Mexico a more general esteem for

1 Reprinted by permission from The Scientific Monthly, vol. 44, April 1937.
§21
522 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938

the old Indian civilizations, knowledge of which had been kept alive
through the ages by the untiring efforts of a handful of priests and
scholars, chiefly Mexican, but including some Americans and Euro-
peans.

These men had interpreted and preserved the few first-hand native
records that had survived the wholesale destructions of documents
and religious paraphernalia. They had also collected and observed
the material traces of native culture dug up by farmers and treasure
hunters and had tried to identify the makers of these objects and the
builders of these temples by interpretation of the native annals at
their disposal. It became evident, as time went on, that there was
vastly more material in the ground than could be accounted for by
the tribes mentioned in the historical records.

Thus in the beginning of the twentieth century, a subsidiary branch
of history began to grow up, field archeology, which had for its goal
the study of the Indian material culture, its history and development,
and its interpretation in terms of human history. One of the chief
aims of this branch of research was to try to establish the relative age
of the different monuments and cultures. Fragmentary pottery was
of the greatest aid in attaining this end. Forms and decoration
changed gradually with the years, and each tribe or locality had its
own individual expression. By cutting into ancient refuse heaps,
where the material at the bottom was necessarily laid down at an
earlier date than at the top, and by carefully studying the differences
in shape, texture, and decoration of the fragments of pottery found,
it was possible to discern the relative age of several ceramic groups.
Later, by finding pottery associated with a building, the relative age
of that structure could be determined. Furthermore, in Central
America, it is quite common to discover that buildings are success-
ively enlarged by filling in and adding to a previous construction, so
that the stratigraphical process can be applied to architecture as
well as to ceramics.

While such stratigraphical sequences have been established for
various parts of Mexico and Central America, the Valley of Mexico
is the first where the archeological record is detailed enough to be
compared to the historical and where the two lines of research com-
plement and check each other. Let us examine this relationship,
which is one of the primary ends of archeological research.

The documentary evidence from the Valley of Mexico consists of
two main types. First there were the records kept by the Aztecs
and their neighbors, a few of which escaped the wholesale destruc-
tions ordered by the Spaniards. These consisted of a type of picture
writing, not unlike a rebus, in which the picture of an object could
represent, beside the object itself, the same sound with another
meaning or as a syllable in another word. Personages and tribes were
VALLEY OF MEXICO—VAILLANT 523

represented in this way, while events were depicted pictorially. The
dates of various incidents were also given in terms of a 52-year cycle,
but no method of distinguishing one cycle from another was evolved.
This system caused the same kind of confusion as if we were to date
our history in terms of a century only, so that an event recorded as
falling in ‘65’? might mean 1065, 1365, or 1865. The Aztec picture
records were undoubtedly supplemented by chants or sagas, which
gave detail and color to the simple annals set forth in the manuscripts,
and some of the records have notes added at a later date in Spanish
or Aztec which describe the native text.

Besides these indigenous documents, there were also histories
written by Spanish priests and educated Indians after the Conquest.
These authors seem to have had access both to the oral traditions
and the pictorial records. In most cases their original sources have
disappeared or else survive in copies distorted by European draughts-
manship. These later authors were often bewildered by the native
method of dating, as would naturally be the case if one lacked a com-
plete knowledge of the events of Aztec history. Thus, by confusing
the various cycles, rulers are sometimes fantastically credited with
160-year reigns. But in the main the native records are fairly com-
plete from 1200 to the Conquest and one or two accounts, written
after 1519 but based on native traditions, reach as far back as the
seventh century.

The history recorded for the Valley of Mexico begins with mytho-
logical tales relating to the foundation of the world and to the presence
on earth of gods and giants. Then follow accounts of the Toltecs,
in which the supernatural is heavily involved. The lists of their
rulers do not always agree, but there is strong evidence that the
Toltecs actually existed, and the Toltec era is described as a golden
age in Mexican history.

Famine and the incursions of savage tribes, the Chichimecs, brought
an end to the Toltec Empire in the twelfth century. One of these
entities settled in Azcapotzalco and through intermarriage with the
remnant Toltecs picked up enough of the earlier culture to achieve a
sedentary life. At the end of the thirteenth century Quinatzin, the
fourth of the Chichimec line, moved his court from Tenayuca to
Texcoco; but insurrection broke out in his former dominion and
thenceforth there was bitter rivalry for the control of the Valley of
Mexico between Azcapotzalco and Texcoco. In the second quarter
of the fourteenth century two groups of people from the Mixteca
came to Texcoco bringing not only writing, but also the cult of the
god Tezcatlipoca. A few years later the Tenochca, or Aztecs of
Tenochtitlan, the modern Mexico City, along with several other
groups, filtered into the valley and became tributary to the Tepanecs
of Azcapotzalco.
524 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938

At the close of the fourteenth century the Tepanec succeeded in
overthrowing the Texcocans, but their sway was short-lived. In the
second quarter of the fifteenth century, the deposed ruler of Texcoco
raised a revolt, and enlisting the services of the Tenochcas or Mexico
City Aztecs and the Tacubans, destroyed forever the political power
of Azcapotzalco. These three city-states then assumed the leader-
ship of the valley and by a series of conquests enlarged their power to
cover great sections of southern and eastern Mexico. Gradually the
Aztecs supplanted the Texcocans as the dominant political power in
the league, but the cultural and intellectual leadership still remained
with Texcoco. At the time of the Conquest the Aztec dominion was
at its height, but the disaster in store for it at Spanish hands was but
an acceleration of the seething hatred felt by the subject people who
allied themselves speedily with the white invaders.

This history, culled from documentary sources, resolves itself into
several stages or periods:

(1) The legendary period of the foundation of the world.

(2) The Toltec Empire.

(3) The Chichimec period.

(4) The formation of the Texcocan kingdom.

(5) The rise of the Aztec Empire.

We must now see how this pattern compares with the sequence of
cultures, derived by excavation. This latter process has been a
long one, lasting over 25 years, and still is not complete. While the
Department of Monuments of Mexico and the American Museum of
Natural History have been most active, yeoman service has been
done by the now-disbanded International School, the Stockholm
Museum, and the University of Arizona. Now the point has been
reached where a correlation can be made between the tribes of the
valley and their material culture.

Traces are found of five main culture levels, differing from each
other in the form and decoration of their pottery, in the artistic
styles of their stone and clay sculptures, and in their architecture.
Through the study of the strata in the rubbish heaps, minor time
stages can be distinguished within each culture group.

The earliest traces of man were originally found beneath a lava
flow at the south of Mexico, but careful stratigraphical analysis of
rubbish heaps in the Guadalupe hills, northeast of Mexico City,
where similar material was found, revealed a long history for these
finds, which resolved themselves into the handiwork of two peoples.
The earlier culture, named Copilco-Zacatenco, after the sites where
first found, showed five stages of development, represented in 20-foot
accumulations of refuse indicative of a long lapse of time. The general
culture level was on a par with that of the more developed of our
North American Indian tribes. The later finds, called Cuicuilco-
VALLEY OF MEXICO—VAILLANT 525

Ticoman, could be divided into three time stages, derived from refuse
heaps that, although deep, could not compare to the earlier deposits.
In the Cuicuilco-Ticoman culture there were to be seen evidences of
a considerable advance in handiwork, for not only were pottery,
figurines and stone tools better made and in greater variety than in
the preceding periods, but also the presence of mounds and unques-
tionable representations of gods indicated the beginnings of a for-
malized religious system. The wide geographic distribution of this
culture shows that these remains were the handiwork of an important
and populous tribal group.

The third horizon is marked by the finds made at the great pyramid
city of San Juan Teotihuacan, northeast of Mexico City. While the
earliest of the five periods tentatively defined shows affiliations with a
branch of the Cuicuilco-Ticoman culture, the pottery and figurines
present a rapid advance in technique and artistic value. Designs are
often derived from ceremonial motives and testify that already that
ritualistic preoccupation which so characterizes Central American
civilization had taken form. Mighty pyramids and elaborate palaces
give evidence of a closely knit social organization able to draft man-
power to achieve such ends, while excellent stone sculptures indicate
good craftsmen and trade with adjacent cultures. The last phase of
this civilization is found at Azcapotzalco, apparently after Teotihuacan
had been abandoned. Figurines were made in molds, suggesting a
curious use of mass production to satisfy the needs of mass religion,
but architectural remains at Azcapotzalco reveal none of the grandiose
qualities of Teotihuacan.

These first three culture groups have shown a slow development
that reaches a peak in the civilization of Teotihuacan. The artistic
forms and styles do not evolve progressively, but rather in jerks, as
one tribe seems to have driven out another. The most violent change
occurs with the introduction of the fourth culture period. Here, at
San Francisco Mazapan, a simple complex of human handiwork is
found overlying the Teotihuacan remains. While sporadic pieces,
presumably obtained by trade, attest to the presence of relatively
high civilizations elsewhere, the bulk of the material reveals little
evidence of ritualistic, social, or artistic advancement. By studying
the traded vessels, connections are obtained with a series of other
peoples, some of high and some of low culture, some inhabiting the
Valley of Mexico and others as far away as Yucatan. It is as though
with the collapse of the Teotihuacan civilization, a number of other
tribes had risen to power and filtered into the countryside.

The last culture stage constitutes the articles of household and cere-
monial use, the sculptures, and the architecture found in places known
to have been occupied by the Aztecs. One very characteristic ware
526 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938

may be divided into six periods, while other local forms and decora-
tions reflect the presence of city-states mentioned in the chronicles.

The six Aztec pottery periods may also be grouped into larger units.
The first period has been found in quantity at only one site in the
valley, Culhuacan, and stylistically these ceramics show affiliations
with Cholula and the Mixteca, and, by trade pieces, with Mazapan.
The second and third periods are closely united, and only minor
differences in their coarse style of draughtsmanship distinguish them.
The fourth and fifth periods produced highly conventionalized designs
that are very similar, but many highly decorated polychrome wares
attest to a wide trade. The last period styles evolve from the pre-
ceding and a new element of naturalistic decoration also appears.

Here, then, is the logical starting point for a correlation between the
archeology of the valley and its documentary history. If the six
ceramic periods could be tied in with the annals of the Aztec, then
there would be a fairly secure basis for testing the vaguer portions of
the valley’s past. To this end a curious custom of the Aztec gave us
a very good lead.

The Aztecs at the close of each of their 52-year cycles broke all their
household utensils and put out their fires. Then they refurnished
their houses and made new equipment. Presumably the temples
and sacred buildings underwent a similar renovation. After midnight
on the last day, a new fire was kindled on a hill outside of Mexico, and
runners with torches distributed this flame to all the hearths in the
valley, while every one rejoiced that life was to continue for another
52-year span. The native chroniclers record this practice punctili-
ously, for the Mexican calendar system was a sacred almanac for
governing men’s lives and served only secondarily as a means of
recording time.

Reflections of this ceremony have been found in excavations around
Mexico City, where broken pottery and idols were found in too great
quantity to have been the result of accidents. Ancient temples, in
which the successive additions give the nested effect of a Russian doll,
also suggest a further application of this practice.

One of these cyclical dumps yielding pottery of the fifth Aztec style
we uncovered in the spring of 1936 at the power plant of Nonoalco in
the heart of Mexico City. A normal refuse heap of the sixth and latest
style lay above the ceremonial deposit. Since this latest type of Aztec
pottery occasionally shows such traces of Spanish influence as glazed
surfaces and European designs, it must have been in vogue at the
time of the Spanish penetration of Mexico subsequent to 1519. There-
fore we had good basis for assuming that the lower layer of the fifth
period represented the destruction in connection with the last New
Fire Ceremony before the conquest, which was celebrated in 1507.
Moreover, at Chiconauhtla, a frontier town of the Texcocan dominion,
VALLEY OF MEXICO—VAILLANT 527.

we found another ceremonial dump of this same fifth Aztec style under
circumstances which proved it to have been made at the end of the
occupation there.

To strengthen our hypothesis we found two dumps of the fourth
Aztec ceramic period, one at Chiconauhtla and another in 'Texcoco
itself, an occurrence which would suggest the celebration of the New
Fire Ceremony 52 years previous, or in the year 1455 (1507-52=1455).
In one of the earlier buildings at Chiconauhtla, we came across another
such dump composed of pottery of the third Aztec period, which, if our
hypothesis was correct, would represent the cyclical destruction of
1403.

The second Aztec pottery stage was obtained from a low stratum of
a normal refuse mound at Chiconauhtla, so that while we have no
definite evidence that this earlier stage should span another 52-year
period, we have some right to assume it was made between 1299 and
1351. Furthermore, the first Aztec period, as we have said, is found in
quantity at only one site in the valley, Culhuacan, and may well be
contemporaneous witb the Mazapan culture described above as repre-
senting the fourth epoch in the development of civilization in the valley.

According to our reckoning, then, the Period 6 style, from 1507 to
the Conquest, represents the last days of the Aztec Empire. Pottery of
Period 5, which was made between 1455 and 1507, is widely distributed
as befits the domination of the Aztec League. The method of decora-
tion in vogue in Period 4, 1403-1455, is strongly represented at the
palace of Nezualcoyotl, the great Texcocan ruler, and at Texcoco
itself. At this time Texcoco rather than Tenochtitlan led in sump-
tuousness and splendor. The trade wares suggest tribute from the
conquests of that era and the clay idols reproduce the wide variety of
gods in the Mexican pantheon.

Pottery from Period 3, 1351 (?)—1403, is scantily represented at
Tenochtitlan, which in this period was a weak tributary to Culhuacani
and the Tepaneca of Azcapotzalco, but this style, like that of Period
2, 1299 (?)-1351 (?), is found in the other valley centers. During the
fourteenth century as we have seen, the Tepanecs, Texcocans, and
Culhuas held the leadership of the Valley of Mexico, and the pottery
attributable to this period is most commonly found in the towns
under their dominion.

Confirmatory evidence of the reflection of time in ceremonial prac-
tice is yielded by the pyramid of Tenayuca, where seven buildings
are found superimposed. The last reconstruction presumably marks
the ceremonies of 1507, the next two in the same style, those of 1455
and 1403. The architecture of the fourth (1351) is transitional to
two more primitive pyramids possibly representing the ceremonies
of 1299 and 1247 which corresponds very well to the early thirteenth
century date given to the founding of the Chicimec kingdom in Azca-
528 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938

potzalco. The break from the primitive to the regulation Aztec
style of architecture accords well with the historical data, which
describe Quinatzin’s becoming civilized and moving to Texcoco in
1298 and the arrival of Mixtecs and other tribes in 1328. A resem-
blance, too close to be entirely coincidence, exists between the tradi-
tion of the Mixtecs having brought knowledge of writing in 1328 and
the Period 2 and 3 style of decoration which seems based more upon
the fluid principle of writing than the previous labored method of
painting designs in geometric fashion.

We have traced our way to the last half of the thirteenth century.
Our records have become very hazy, and we now meet the Mazapan
culture, the fourth level in the valley. The chronicles tell of the
incursions of the Chichimecs who brought an end to the Teotihuacan
culture some time in the twelfth century. We can rely no longer on
ceremonial dumps, but we can achieve a relative dating in another
way. ‘Two trade wares are found in the Mazapan culture, Plumbate,
a natural glazed pottery perhaps made in Salvador, and Fine Orange,
which is common on the Isla de Sacrificios in Vera Cruz. Both these
wares are frequently found in Chichen Itza in refuse of the Mexican
period, which began about 1200 A. D. and lasted until 1458. That
the Mazapan culture flowered in the thirteenth century seems ex-
tremely probable both because of its stratigraphical position below
the Aztec-Texcocan material remains and above those of Teotihuacan,
and because of the trade pottery which ties in with thirteenth century
refuse heaps at Chichen Itza in Yucatan. The makers must then be
some branch of the Chichimec immigrants, who, arriving in Mexico
during this period, seem to have assumed distinctive tribal names
even as, in adopting a sedentary life, they occupied fixed places of
residence.

Following our method of elimination there seems no reasonable
doubt that the Toltecs were the makers of the Teotihuacan civiliza-
tion, a thesis which is supported by a great deal of legendary evidence.
The long span of the 700-1200 A. D. dates assigned by some to the
Toltec Empire agrees well with the traditional evidence and the re-
tarded cultural development one would expect of people who could
not borrow but had to invent each material and cultural innovation.
Furthermore, this hypothetical dating is roughly substantiated by
the discovery of the Swedish archeologist, Linné, who found, in a
Toltec building on the outskirts of Teotihuacan, Peten Maya trade
pottery like that associated with the dated Maya monuments (circa
433-889).

While the historical position of the Valley of Mexico Toltecs seems
to be fairly well established by the correlation of archeological and
historical data, there is still confusion attendant to the cultural iden-
tification of people called by the same name in other districts of
VALLEY OF MEXICO—VAILLANT 529

Mexico. Further research should clear up the identity of these
tribes, as either colonists driven out of the valley or outlying branches
of the same group who retained their tribal organization although
modifying their culture, or perhaps people completely different cul-
‘ turally and tribally who were given this name as a generic distinction,
even as the discoverers of America called its inhabitants Indians.

With this final identification, connection between traditions and
archeology ceases, so that we cannot identify the makers of the
Cuicuilco-Ticoman and Copilco-Zacatenco cultures, often grouped
under the term ‘‘Archaic.”’ True, the mythology records giants as
inhabiting the earth before the advent of the Toltecs, but the skeletons
found in graves of these periods give no evidence of extraordinary
size. It would be tempting to align with mythical destructions of
the world the rise in lake level which affected the Zacatenco culture
or the lava flow from the Pedregal which surrounded the ruins of the
Cuicuilco pyramid. As these successive destructions were by jaguars,
wind, fire, and water, the order is wrong for such an interpretation
of the geological disturbances affecting the early cultures, but it is
possible that a vague folk memory of such events may have been
incorporated in the myths.

The dating of these early cultures is impossible in an absolute sense,
but, relatively, some estimate may be made. The geologists all agree
that the lava flow is recent, but their computations of 2,000 to 8,000
years are meant to be taken in the geological sense of extreme youth
instead of the historical sense of great age. There is some evidence
that the Ticoman-Cuicuilco culture is partially contemporaneous
with Teotihuacan. It is also possible to compare the accumulations
of rubbish at Zacatenco and Ticoman with those of a site in New
Mexico, Pecos, the occupation of which is accurately known in years
by means of the tree ring method of dating. Dividing the number of
years by the greatest depth of continuously deposited debris at Pecos,
one gets a ratio of 78 years to the meter. Applying this computation
to the deepest refuse heap at Ticoman, one finds 286 years of accumula-
tion, and to the thickest middens of the Copilco-Zacatenco culture, 787
years. Perhaps a thousand years is excessive, so that computing on
the basis of the deepest bed which shows continuous occupation by
both cultures, one arrives at nearly 600 years for the total length of
habitation.

Rough and inaccurate as these computations are they indicate that
the Valley of Mexico was inhabited for a long time before even the
dimmest historical records, and that the earliest remains so far
recovered were made in the first centuries before the Christian Era.
However, these early people were by no means primitive. Indeed
they were on a par already with our modern Pueblo, and there are
many stages of culture to be discovered and analyzed before we can
say we have traces of the earliest man in Central America.
530 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938

This article has endeavored to sketch one phase of historical research
on the past of Mexico. A major problem has been to’bridge the gap
between the peoples who are identified by Spanish and Indian docu-
mentary records and those who are known to us only through the
ruins of their buildings and the broken elements of their material cul-
ture which have survived. While at times it must seem as though
the archeologists labor to make bricks without straw, yet the results
of the Valley of Mexico research prove that it is possible to formulate
a history with the meager data provided. In Yucatan, Guatemala,
and Oaxaca, similar methods have sketched the main outlines of his-
torical development. Even if the history thus obtained discloses
little or nothing of the life of the individual, it does throw abundant
light on the steps by which man achieves his artistic development and
economic progress. The lesson is constantly driven home that greater
than man is the sum total of his achievements.
Smithsonian Report, 1938.—Vaillant PLATE 1

TYPES OF STRATIGRAPHICAL EXCAVATION IN THE VALLEY OF MEXICO.

Top: Left: Deep pit at El Arbolillo, Federal District, Mexico. The earliest discovered figurine types from the
Valley of Mexico were discovered at the base of this trench. Right: Cleaning out a canal in the Nonoalco
Durie of Mexico City. This shallow ditch was filled with vessels discarded in the cyclical destruction
of 1507.

Middle: Excavation in the Nonoalco District.

Bottom: Lejt: Peeling layers of refuse at Zacatenco, D. F. This was the source of the first stratigraphical
series defined by the American Museum of Natural History. Right: Dissecting an Aztec residential struc-
ture at Chiconauhtla, State of Mexico.
*g *3Y WLOIJ A[[VOl4SI[A4s SPATIOp ‘ad £4
ugoenyljoay, oreyore jo peey ‘y {aINj[Nd UeMOdL,]-Oo[mMoINgD OY} JO sese4s aATSSedons WO soulIMsy ‘9-G ‘14nd ooW}wIRZ-OdTIdOH ot Jo SoSBJs OAISSOOONS WLOIJ SoUINSY ‘“p-T :010940gq
“HOZIIOY UBWODLL-Od[MoIND sq} ULOI sjossea AIo}4od ‘F-g :mOZTIOY 00u01RdB7Z-OdTId0H 94 UOJ SjesseA A10440d ‘Z-T :O[PPLIN,
‘OdTMOMHD 1B PUNO JO UOTYeS SsoID :7yHy “dvoy osnyjor YsNoIy} WOT}Deg aT :doy,

‘SHUNLIND DIVHOYNY AHL WOYS IIMALVW IWOIDOTIOSHOYY AO AYNLVYN ONIMOHS LYVHD

£ 9 Sj + £ I

c ALW1d quel[ie~—ge6l *qaodayy URIUOSYzIWIG
Smithsonian Report, 1938.—Vaillant PLATE 3

POTTERY VESSELS FROM EARLIEST COPILCO-ZACATENCO HORIZON.
Smithsonian Report, 1938.—Vaillant

FIGURINES (TYPE C3A) FROM EARLIEST COPILCO-ZACATENCO CULTURE LAYER.

Smithsonian Report, 1938.—Vaillant PLATE 5

SPECIMENS FROM THE ARCHAIC CULTURES.

Top: Left: Mother and child from Cuernavaca, Morelos. Center: Pyramid of Cuicuilco, D. F., note the lava
encroaching on the mound. Right: Figurine, Cuernavaca, Morelos.

Middle: Left: Large hollow figurine, Cuernavaca, Morelos. Right: Head, Zacatenco, D. F.

Bottom: Pottery vessels of the Cuicuilco-Ticoman culture, Ticoman, D. F.
Smithsonian Repcrt, 1938.—Vaillant PLATE 6

OTT ¥
wi), iS

Inu

CHART SHOWING NATURE OF MATERIAL FROM THE TOLTEC CULTURE.
First row: Fresco from Teotihuacan, showing people involved in a ritualistic ceremony.
Second row: Reconstruction of the Pyramid of the Sun at Teotihuacan, after Gamio.

Third row: Pottery vessels, Toltec culture.
Fourth row: Successive stages of figurine manufacture in the Toltec culture. The last two are mold-made.
“ODIXAW AO ALVLS ‘NVYOVNHILOAL LY NNS AHL AO GINVYAd

ALV1d queyjreA—'gc6| ‘40dey ueruosyzIWG
‘S9I}I9p SNOWBA SuUlUyep WIsT[oqurAs Jo DATTEIIPUL Sainjes) onbsej013 F-¢ “sou UL 9j0N “odA} (909[0,7, 298T) A WBOBNYI}OIT, “2-9 ‘SON

“SANIHNSI4 OALIOL
L 9 c id €

‘adAy (097/07, Apaea) IJ UvoENnyIy0ay, ‘c-T ‘son

8 =LV1d qweljreA—"g¢6| ‘jacday ueruosyziwicg
Smithsonian Report, 1938.—Vaillant PLATE 9

CHART SHOWING ARCHEOLOGICAL MATERIAL FROM THE CHICHIMEC CULTURES.

Top row: Historical picture writings relating to period. Left: Chichimec hunter. Center: Aztecs setting
forth on their wanderings. Right: Eight tribes who settled in and around the Valley of Mexico.

Second row: Successive stages in the construction of the Temple of Tenayuca which epitomizes the architec-
ture of the Chichimec and Aztec periods.

Third row: Pottery styles of Mazapan, Coyotlatelco, and Aztec I type which may eventually be correlated
with some of the tribes shown in top row, right.

Fourth row: Figurines of Coyotlatelco type.

Fifth row: Figurines of Mazapan type.
‘Spolied 01nj[ne Suryep sso1o 10} ote Ue] 10d ut ‘ainq[nd uvdezeyy oy} 04 Suo[aq 64 sumods
UBSISIT, ‘Uvdezey, WOT] o1eM 0Y8qQ UNI JO SMOG OMT, :IOMOrT aInsy siq} AT[BOT4SI[AIS “OoIXxeyy «JO a4eig
‘ODIXOTT JO o}eIg ‘uvdezeyy WO osvA ASyJO A10}J0g todd °z ‘uvyoulyjyeoy wooly Asya AI03¥\0d ozIs-ojrT *T

Ol 3ALV1d que] [!BA —"Be6| ‘Oday ueLuOsyyIUIG
Smithsonian Report, 1938.—Vaillant PLATE 11

1. TEMPLE OF CHOLULA, PUEBLA.
Beneath this large adobe platform is a complex of buildings of the Toltec period.

2. MODEL OF THE TEMPLE AT TENAYUGCA, D. F.

Showing successive renovations made in connection with the renovation ceremonies at the beginning of
calendar cycles. The six buildings shown might correspond to structures made in 1507, 1455, 1403, 1351,
1299, 1247.
Smithsonian Report, 1938.—Vaillant PLATE 12

CHART SHOWING ARCHEOLOGICAL MATERIAL FROM THE AZTEC CULTURE.

First row: Scenes from historical picture manuscripts. 1, Arrival of nations with the knowledge of writing
in 1325; 2, New Fire Ceremony of 1403: 3, New Fire Ceremony of 1455; 4, New Fire Ceremony of 1507; 5,
the taking of Tenochtitlan (Mexico City) in 1519.

Second row: Successive stages in the architecture of the Temple at Tenayuca, corresponding perhaps to the
renovations of 1403, 1455, and 1507.

Third row: First three: Aztec pottery types (II, IIIa, IIIb) found in the cyclical dumps for 1403, 1455, and 1507.
Fourth: Pottery type (IV) made from 1507 up to the Conquest.

Fourth row: First two: Aztec figurines made prior to 1403. Last four: Aztec figurines made between 1403
and the Conquest.
Smithsonian Report, 1938.—Vaillant PLATE 13

AZTEC POTTERY TYPES.

Top Trichrome vessels found in a 1403 cyclical dump at Chiconauhtla.
Middle: Right: Trade bow] found in 1507 dump at Chiconauhtla. Left: Local trichrome bow] found in the
1507 dump at Chiconauhtla.
Soro: Left: Orange-on-red bowl with black outline from Nonoaleo. Right: Black-on-orange dishes from
onoaleo.
Dep ye
fel eps ae
NF

7!

THE FOLSOM PROBLEM IN AMERICAN
ARCHEOLOGY !

By Frank H. H. Roserts, Jr.
Archeologist, Bureau of American Ethnology

[With 15 plates]

The so-called Folsom problem has assumed an important place in
American archeology during the last decade. It is outstanding in
popular interest, and in scientific circles it is regarded as significant.
This is due to the fact that it is closely coupled to the question of
early man in the New World. At several places in New Mexico and
Colorado implements have been found in association with bones of
extinct animals and in deposits suggestive of geologic antiquity.
These discoveries help push the date of occupation farther back into
the past and have encouraged renewed consideration of the length of
time that man has been in America. The more important sites where
such finds have been made are those near Folsom, between Clovis and
Portales, and in the Guadalupe Mountains in New Mexico; and at.
the Lindenmeier ranch and Dent in Colorado (fig. 1).

The first in the series—that which gave its name to archeological
remains of the type—is on a small intermittent tributary of the Cimar-
ron River, in a little valley named Dead Horse Gulch, several miles.
west of Folsom, Union County, N. Mex. It lies below the eastern rim.
of Johnson Mesa and was discovered in the summer of 1925 by local
residents. Fred J. Howarth and Carl Schwachheim of Raton, N.
Mex., reported the find to J. D. Figgins, then director of the Colorado
Museum of Natural History at Denver, now director of the Isaac W.
Bernheim Foundation, Louisville, Ky. Bones sent to the museum
showed that the remains were those of an extinct species of bison and
of a large deerlike member of the Cervidae. Prospects for fossil
material were so promising that the Colorado museum sent a party
to the site in the summer of 1926. Bearing in mind an occurrence 2
years previous when another group from the museum was digging
near Colorado, Tex., and uncovered two chipped-stone objects in

1 Reprinted, by permission, with some revision, the addition of new information, illustrations, and ref-

erences, from Early Man, as depicted by leading authorities at the International Symposium, the Academy
of Natural Sciences, Philadelphia, March 1937. J. B. Lippincott Co., 1937.

531
114728—39—35
5a2 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938

. 0)
LINDENMEIER SITE
0 DENT

© OMEMO RUA DO

eq ee ee ees ees eee eee ee

NEW MEXICO
CLOV/S ©
PORTALES ©

GUADALUPE MTS.
oO

FIGURE 1.—Locations of principal Folsom sites.
THE FOLSOM PROBLEM—ROBERTS 533

association with an extinct bison, but failed to preserve their evidence
in acceptable form, Mr. Figgins gave explicit instructions for the work-
men to watch carefully for such artifacts at the Folsom pit. Parts
of two finely chipped projectile points were recovered from the loose
dirt during the excavations (pl. 1, fig. 1, a, 6, c). Near the place
where one of them was picked up, a small triangular piece of stone was
found embedded in the clay surrounding an animal bone. This
fragment was left in the block of earth and sent to the laboratory at
Denver. When the dirt was carefully cleaned away from the stone
it was noted that it was of the same material as one of the points.
Close examination showed that it was actually a part of the point as
the two pieces fitted together (pl. 1, fig. 2). This indicated a definite
association between man-made objects and an extinct bison. Mr.
Figgins was greatly impressed by the find and reported it to a number
of archeologists and general anthropologists. The information was
skeptically received in most quarters, and in several instances there
was a definitely hostile attitude toward suggestions that the occur-
rence might be of importance and worthy of further investigation.

The Colorado Museum again sent a party to Folsom in the summer
of 1927 and had the good fortune to find additional points. One of
these was noted before it was completely uncovered, and work was
stopped. Telegrams were sent to various institutions inviting them to
send representatives to view the point in situ. Dr. Barnum Brown, of
the American Museum of Natural History, New York, and the writer
responded. Arriving at the quarry (pl. 2, fig. 1), he found Director
Figgins, several members of the Colorado Museum board, and Dr.
Brown. The latter had just uncovered the point which became the
pattern and furnished the name for the type. There was no question
but that here was important evidence. The point was still embedded
in the matrix between two bison ribs (pl. 2, fig. 2). In fact, it has
never been removed from the block, which is now on exhibit in the
Colorado Museum of Natural History at Denver. The writer re-
turned to Raton and telegraphed Dr. A. V. Kidder, then associated
with Phillips Academy, Andover, now with the Carnegie Institution
of Washington, and urged that he also visit the site. Dr. Kidder, who
was engaged in excavations at Pecos, N. Mex., arrived 2 days later.
After the whole situation had been studied carefully, it was agreed
that the association could not be questioned nor explained away by
any of the customary arguments against the authenticity of such an
occurrence. That winter Dr. Brown, Dr. Kidder, and the writer
reported on the finds at the annual meeting of the American Anthro-
pological Association at Andover, Mass. In spite of the convincing
nature of the evidence, most of the anthropologists continued to doubt
the validity of the discovery.
534. ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938

The American Museum of Natural History and the Colorado
Museum cooperated at the site in 1928. Dr. Barnum Brown headed
the expedition, taking charge of the actual excavations, and several
eraduate students in anthropology under the supervision of Dr. Clark
Wissler, head curator of anthropology at the American Museum,
assisted by making a survey of the surrounding area in search of
caves, rock shelters, or camp sites where the makers of the points might
have lived. The survey had negative results, but the diggers were
more fortunate. Additional bison skeletons were found with accom-
panying points, and numerous specialists—archeologists, paleontolo-
gists, and geologists—went to check the evidence. Consensus was
that the finds were a reliable indication that man was present in the
Southwest at an earlier period than formerly supposed and that they
constituted one of the most important contributions yet made to
American archeology. Most of the critics of previous years became
enthusiastic converts and endorsed the Folsom materials. While
the finds and their establishment as authentic were significant, of even
greater consequence was the fact that Folsom paved the way to more
considerate and unbiased studies of other discoveries indicative of an
earlier New World occupancy and made it possible for those interested
in that subject to continue their investigations without inviting the
stigma of charlatanry. An ever increasing tendency to condemn
arbitrarily any occurrence even slightly suggestive of antiquity gave
way to the more reasonable attitude of letting the facts decide the case.

The points associated with the bison bones differed from the ordi-
nary types scattered over that portion of the Southwest. They are
leaf-shaped blades characterized by a longitudinal fluting on each face.
One of the examples found in 1926 (pl. 1, fig. 1, a, 6), at first glance
appears to have a channel on one side only, but that is due to the fact
that the basal portion is missing and that the break occurred just
above the end of the groove. This feature is apparent when the
photograph (pl. 1, fig. 1, 6), is examined closely. In addition to the
channels, the points have a secondary chipping along the edges that
bespeaks a highly developed stone-flaking technique. Owing to the
proximity of the site to the town of Folsom, these points were generally
referred to as Folsom points, and later were definitely so named by
Mr. Figgins. Because the site represented the scene of a kill rather
than a camp, other artifacts were scarce, a portion of a nondescript
flake knife and a generalized type of scraper being the only additional
forms; hence, for a time the point was the only implement recognized
as Folsom.

The layer of bones and implements at Folsom were in a deposit of
dark clay containing lenses of gravel and small concretions of lime.
This alluvial stratum probably represents an old bog or water hole
that was the principal reason for the presence of the animals. At the
THE FOLSOM PROBLEM—ROBERTS 535

conclusion of his work Dr. Brown emphasized the fact that the sedi-
ments overlying the bone bed were highly restratified earth of a nature
indicating great antiquity. He concluded that they belonged to the
close of the Pleistecene and placed the age of the remains at the end
of that period. Some of the experts support this opinion. Others
believe that the site should be considered Early Recent rather than
Late Pleistocene, and there the matter rests today.’

The second important New Mexican area contains several sites.
It lies approximately 160 miles southeast of Folsom, between Clovis
and Portales, not far from the Texas-New Mexico boundary (fig. 1).
The sites were reported to Dr. Edgar B. Howard of Philadelphia in
the summer of 1932 by A. W. Anderson and George Roberts, of Clovis.
Dr. Howard visited the area at that time and returned again in No-
vember of the same year, when a road-construction company, digging
for gravel, exposed a layer of bluish clay containing quantities of
animal bones and indications of human occupation. As a result of
that inspection he planned a series of investigations for the summer of
1933. This began as a joint undertaking of the Academy of Natural
Sciences and the University of Pennsylvania Museum. Later in the
season Dr. John C. Merriam, president of the Carnegie Institution of
Washington, visited the excavations and became so enthused over the
prospects that he arranged for the California Institute of Technology
to send a party, under Dr. Chester Stock, to cooperate in the work.
Dr. Howard returned in the summer of 1934 in company with Dr.
Ernst Antevs who studied the physiography of the region in an en-
deavor to date the sites. Dr. Howard again led a party to the Clovis
sector in the summer of 1936. This was a joint project of the Acad-
emy of Natural Sciences and the Carnegie Institution of Washington.
The work was continued in 1937 under the auspices of the University
of Pennsylvania Museum and the Academy of Natural Sciences, with
Dr. Howard acting in a supervisory capacity and John L. Cotter in
direct charge of the excavations.

The Clovis-Portales area is part of the Staked Plains, the old
Llano Estacado of the Spanish explorers. In this district the flatness
of the terrain is broken only by sand dunes rising along the edges of
shallow depressions. These dry basins occur in a series that extends
in a general east-southeasterly direction about midway between Clovis
and Portales. Evidence points to a former period of heavy precipita-
tion. At that time the basins were more or less permanently filled
with water. Subsequent desiccation reduced them to mere water
holes. They eventually dried up entirely and were filled with drift
sand. Recent wind and water action have left them in varying
stages of erosion. The sand has been whipped up into dunes along

1 For more detailed information on the Folsom site, see Brown, 1929; Bryan, 1937; Cook, 1927; Figgins, 1927;
Roberts, 1935.
536 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938

the northeastern borders of many of them, exposing a hard bluish-gray
deposit. These constitute what are known locally as “blow-outs’”’
(pl. 3, figs. 1 and 2). In some the bluish layer has been cut down to a
harder, underlying stratum of caliche, leaving shelves or benches
around the edges of the basins and “erosion islands” scattered through
the middle. Excavations in these shelves and islands yield animal
bones, stone artifacts, some bone tools, charcoal, and ashes. Many
of the bones show the effects of fire, and a large number appear to
have been cut and split for the marrow. In numerous cases there is
a definite association between the bones and man-made objects.
The bones represent an extinct species of bison and the mammoth
(pl. 4, fig. 1). Hence, there is little question but that in this region
man was contemporary with both animals. Camel and horse bones
are present in lower levels antedating the human period of occupancy.

Implements found there comprise projectile points, various kinds
of scrapers, rough-flake knives, knives, blades, gravers, bone tools of
unidentified function and two sharpened bones that may have served
as spear points. Some of the stone projectile points are significant
because they are comparable to the fluted examples from the original
Folsom quarry. Others do not have as pronounced channels, and
some do not have the feature at all. The latter correspond to a much
disputed form called the Yuma. The presence of the fluted forms is
an indication of some cultural relationship between the makers of
these implements and those from the Folsom pit. The meaning of
the so-called Yuma specimens is not clear. They may belong to the
Folsom implement complex, but it is possible that they represent
trade objects or an influence from another complex. This is still to
be determined. One theoretical study based on typology, without
any actual stratigraphic evidence, derives the Folsom type from the
Yuma. The validity of this hypothesis is made questionable, how-
ever, by the fact that in some localities Folsom materials are found
without any associated Yuma points and in others the Yumas occur
and the Folsoms are absent. Furthermore, numerous channel flakes
and unfinished Folsom points show that the chipping technique was
not the same as that employed on the Yuma specimens (pl. 4, fig. 2).
The specimens from the Clovis-Portales sites demonstrate that the
fluted points belong to a definite complex and that they are only one
of a series of different types of implements rather than the major
item in the materia! culture of a hunting people as the evidence from
the original Folsom pit would tend to indicate.

General interpretation of the geologic evidence is that the blue-gray
stratum in the Clovis-Portales region was a lake deposit, probably
laid down when temperatures were lower and there was much more
precipitation. These conditions have led Dr. Antevs to conclude that
the time represented corresponds to the end of the Pleistocene period,
THE FOLSOM PROBLEM—ROBERTS 537

his pluvial stage, dating back 12,000 to 13,000 years in this particular
district. A more recent study suggests that the horizon from which
the artifacts come is the flood-plain bottom land of a Pleistocene river
rather than a lake deposit and that the age is much greater than that
indicated by Antevs.?

At Burnet cave in the Guadalupe Mountains, southeastern New
Mexico, Dr. Howard found a fluted point in association with bones
from an extinct bison and an extinct muskox-like bovid. The point
differs in some respects from the typical Folsom form, despite the
channels, and falls in the category of Folsom-like or Folsomoid, terms
used by some investigators to indicate a variation in the fluted forms.
The point probably belongs to the basic Folsom type, however, and
for that reason has a bearing on the general problem. The association
of point and bones in itself is indicative of some antiquity, but there
is further significance in the fact that it occurred in a stratum under-
lying Basket Maker material. The Basket Makers represent the
oldest definitely established horizon in the culture-pattern sequence
of the Pueblo area in the Southwest and date back some 2,000 years.
There is some question as to whether or not the peripheral Basket
Maker material found in the Guadalupes and the Big Bend region
farther to the southeast is actually as old as that from the main Basket
Maker center, but the point and the bones unquestionably are of
considerable age as they were in a hearth 4 feet below the bottom of
the Basket Maker level.*

The Lindenmeier site is 28 miles north of Fort Collins, Colo., 1%
miles south of the Wyoming line (pl. 5, figs. 1 and 2). It was dis-
covered in 1924 by A. L. Coffin, his father Judge C. C. Coffin, and C.
K. Collins, all residents of Fort Collins. During the decade 1924 to
1934 the judge, his son, and a brother of the judge, Maj. Roy G.
Coffin, of Colorado State College, visited it intermittently and col-
lected specimens. From the beginning of their finds they recognized
that the points were different from the ordinary arrowheads so abun-
dant in the region but were not aware of their true significance until
1931 when they learned that they were Folsom type. Most of their
material was gathered from the surface. A few implements and some
bone scraps were scratched out of the soil, but there was no attempt
at extensive digging. The site was brought to the attention of the
Bureau of American Ethnology, Smithsonian Institution, by Major
Coffin in the summer of 1984. Asa result of a series of letters from the
Major, the writer went to Fort Collins in September. The owner of
the land, William Lindenmeier, Jr., gave permission for a series of
investigations, and preliminary prospecting was started. This first

3 For detailed studies of the Clovis-Portales sites, see Antevs, 1935a; Bryan, F’., 1938; Cotter, 1937, 1938;

Howard, 1935; Stock and Bode, 1936.
4 Howard, 1935a, pp. 62-79.
538 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938

work was continued through October and into November. Most of
the digging was confined to a deep pit in an arroyo bank, where there
was an exposed layer containing bones and artifacts (pl. 6, fig. 1),
although some excavations were made at other portions of the site in
an effort to determine its extent.

In 1935 two large trenches were dug across the portion of the site
lying south of the deep pit in the ravine (pl. 6, fig. 2). This was done
to reveal a complete cross-section of the deposits overlying the speci-
men-bearing stratum and to determine the source of the objects found
in the deep pit (pl. 7, figs. 1 and 2). Trenches were also dug through
a portion of the area near the location of the original Coffin finds. A
bone pile comprising remains from nine individual bison, Bison taylori,
the same species found at Folsom, was uncovered (pl. 8, fig. 1). Further
work carried on at this location in 1936 revealed the remains of a feast
cr barbecue. The carcasses of the animals, those found the previous
year and others included in the new material, had been dismembered
and cooked at the scene of the kill. Many bones were charred and
several projectile points recovered from the debris exhibit the effects
of fire. In addition, numerous implements of various kinds were
associated with the bones. Any lingering doubts concerning the con-
temporaneity of the makers of Folsom points and the extinct bison
were dispelled when the tip end of a point was found in situ in the
channel for the spinal cord in one of a series of articulated vertebrae
(pl. 8, fig. 2). Further interest was added by the fact that several foot
bones from a camel, probably Camelops, were in the assemblage.
Excavations made near the previous year’s trenches yielded ample
evidence of human occupation. There were traces of surface fires,
quantities of debris left by the makers when they chipped the imple-
ments, and numerous broken and unfinished tools. In the summer of
1937 work was continued from the place where the 1936 activities were
stopped and further confirmatory evidence obtained. Additional pits
were sunk at new portions of the site during the 1938 season and several
areas where fires had been built, animals cut up and cooked, and im-
plements made were revealed (pl. 9, figs. 1 and 2). Most of the bones
belong to Bison taylori, but a few represent an as yet unidentified
deer and a group of small mammals. At some distance from the
excavations, yet within the boundaries of the site, a section of mam-
moth tusk associated with some cut and split bones and charcoal came
to light. There were no points or implements associated with these
remains, however, hence it cannot be stated definitely that they are
contemporaneous with the other materials. The horizon in which they
lay was identical with that where most of the excavations have been
made, and as other sites have shown that Folsom hunters did kill the
mammoth, there seems little doubt that such was the case at the
Lindenmeier ranch.
THE FOLSOM PROBLEM—ROBERTS 539

During the summer of 1935 the Colorado Museum of Natural
History also conducted excavations at the Lindenmeier site. These
consisted of a series of 15 test pits spaced at intervals across the site,
approximately at right angles to the line of the main trenches of the
Smithsonian party. One of these test holes west of the large trenches
penetrated the artifact-bearing stratum where there was a concentra-
tion of material. With this as a starting point an area 30 by 30 feet
was excavated. This pit yielded most of the specimens obtained by the
Denver group. The material thus collected adds to the general fund
of information on the site. Mr. Figgins and John L. Cotter, who
was in direct charge of the work, made available to the present writer,
for study, all of the specimens obtained from their excavations, and
Mr. Cotter also furnished a copy of the manuscript that he submitted
as a report on the investigations.

Since the fall of 1934 Major Coffin and Judge Coffin, with the
assistance of various friends, have carried on a series of independent
explorations at different places on the site and have obtained a large
number of artifacts to supplement the series collected by the other
excavators.

Approximately 6,000 stone implements and a few ornaments, several
of carved bone (pl. 10), as well as portions of tools made from animal
bones have come from the digging. No human skeletal remains have
been found, and no indications of a shelter or habitation have been
observed. The general complex of implements consists of character-
istically fluted points (pl. 11), snub-nosed scrapers (pl. 12), side
scrapers (pl. 13), end scrapers, a variety of cutting edges, drills,
flakes with small, sharp points that may have served to mark on bone,
rough-flake knives, fluted knives, large blades, sandstone shaft
polishers and rubbing stones of the same material. The few bone tools
probably represent punches or awls. Most of the stone artifacts are
chipped or flaked—there are no polished tools— and show that the
lithic component in the material culture was primarily a flake industry,
although tools of the core type are found. The latter are mainly
hammers and choppers.

Evidence from the digging shows that the occupation level was
once an old valley bottom which subsequently was filled in by the
wearing away of bordering ridges. At the present time it suggests a
terrace above an intermittent tributary to a series of streams that
eventually join the South Platte River (pl. 5, fig. 1). This effect
has been produced by erosion of the ridges that. once bordered the
valley on the south. At the time of occupation the valley bottom
was dotted with bogs and marshy places. The makers of the imple-
ments camped on the slopes above these meadows. During the
latter part of their occupancy and for some time subsequent to it
climatic conditions were more favorable to vegetation than they
540 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938

have been in recent times. This is demonstrated by the heavy zone
of black soil that occurs in the lower levels of the deposits over most
of the site. The artifacts and bones are found just below or in the
bottom of this layer (pl. 14, figs. 1 and 2). In this respect there is
similarity between the Lindenmeier and other sites where the materials
were also present in dark-clay deposits, but in contrast to the others
the Lindenmeier stratum does not represent alluvial deposits: it.
was produced by heavy vegetation. After the abandonment of the
location by its human inhabitants an era of erosion set in, and mate-
rial from the valley walls was washed down across the site. The fill
in the valley bottom shows that there have been several alternating
periods of erosion and building up between that time and the present
(pl. 7, fig. 2). These changes were probably induced by the lowering
of the water table resulting from the encroachment of small streams
working headward from the south and from a progressive lessening
of general precipitation over the area. Dr. Kirk Bryan and Dr.
Louis L. Ray, of the Division of Geology, Harvard University, spent
four seasons working on the geology of the region in an effort to
date the period of occupation. They attacked the problem from the
angle of determining the relation of the Lindenmeier Valley to the
various terraces of the major drainage streams of the area. This
correlation was established after many months of careful survey,
and, by the same process of tracing terraces along the main streams
back into the mountains, relationship with the various glacial stages
was demonstrated. The conclusion reached is that Folsom men
lived at the Lindenmeier site while glaciers still lingered in the moun-
tains and when the climate was wetter and colder than now. Al-
though the stage represented is long after the climax of the Wisconsin
glaciation, it is still within the Late Glacial and is good evidence for
the presence of men in the New World in Late Pleistocene times.
From present knowledge it is not possible to give a close estimate of
the number of years involved, but the age has been placed at from
10,000 to 25,000 years ago with the probability that it is closer to
25,000.

Present indications are that the Lindenmeier site was not occupied
continuously by a large group of people. It probably was an annual
summer and fall camping ground visited regularly over a period of
years by smaller parties. That the intervals between occupations
were not protracted is shown by the homogeneous nature of the
layer in which the artifacts are found.®

The find at Dent, Colo., which lies some 50 miles southeast from
the Lindenmeier site, consisted of mammoth skeletons and two large
fluted points. This association is in agreement with that found by

6 Further information on the Lindenmeier site is contained in Bryan, Kirk, 1937; Coffin, R. G., 1937;
Roberts, 1935, 1936.
THE FOLSOM PROBLEM—ROBERTS 5AL

Howard and Cotter in the Clovis-Portales area and indicates that
the finding of a portion of a tusk at the Lindenmeier site was not
necessarily due to entirely fortuitous circumstances. The digging
at Dent was started by Father Conrad Bilgery, S. J., and a number
of his students from Regis College, Denver, and was completed by a
party from the Colorado Museum of Natural History.®

Other sites where implements of the Folsom type are found are
located in this same general area. One is near the town of Kersey,
Colo., about 7 miles east from Greeley, Colo. It was discovered
by F. L. Powars and his son Wayne, of Greeley, and the writer did
some work there in the summer of 1936. The other is 18 miles
northwest from Fort Collins, about 12 miles southwest from the
Lindenmeier, and was found in the fall of 1935 by T. Russell Johnson,
of La Porte, Colo. Some digging was done there in the summer of
1936 by Miss Marie Wormington of the Colorado Museum of Natural
History. Neither of these two sites is as productive or extensive as
the Lindenmeier, but the objects found there are in close agreement
with those from the latter.

From the evidence now at hand certain broad generalizations may
be made concerning the Folsom problem. No human remains
definitely attributable to that phase of American archeology have
been found. One skeleton from the Clovis-Portales region was
reported as a Folsom man, but there were no accompanying artifacts
to show that such was the case. Another purporting to be Folsom
came from a bank of the Cimarron River 8 miles east of Folsom. It
also had no associated objects that would aid in correlating it with
the makers of the fluted points and other implements characteristic
of the Folsom complex.’ Both may be the remains of those people,
yet such a conclusion is not tenable without the support of accompany-
ing artifacts because both regions were occupied by other and later
Indian groups. Hence, it must be said that so far as his physical
characteristics are concerned, Folsom man is still an unknown person.
There is no information on the type of shelter he may have used.
On the other hand it seems obvious that he was a typical hunter
depending entirely upon game—mainly bison, but occasionally the
mammoth and a stray camel, deer, and antelope—for his mainte-
nance and sustenance. He no doubt supplemented his preponderant
meat diet with wild seeds and “greens” but did not cultivate his own
vegetal food. He probably did not settle long in one place but
traveled wherever the animals moved in order to support himself.
This factor unquestionably is linked with that of the spread of aborigi-
nal man to North America and the question of when that movement
began. There would be little incentive to migrate to a region where

6 Figgins, 1933.
7 Figgins, 1935; Roberts, 1937.
542 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938

animals were scarce or absent; consequently, the men must have fol-
lowed the game, and the routes of travel must have been more or less
the same.

A complicating ramification in the study of the problem is that of
the glaciation and extent of the ice sheets over North America. Many
of the mammals that crossed over from Asia during Pleistocene times
seemingly came by way of Bering Strait, either over the ice or by
means of a land bridge in that vicinity. Some of them came during
interglacial stages, others toward the end of the Late Glacial and in
the Early Postglacial. The main pathway from the unglaciated
area in central Alaska seems to have been east to the Mackenzie and
then southeastward along that river and the eastern slopes of the
Rocky Mountains into the Plains. This corridor apparently was
open for a time prior to the last glacial stage and then became the
first land route available when the glaciers began to melt. Subse-
quently, a route due south along the Fraser River opened, and the
Pacific coast strip also became available for land travel over most of
itslength. Some of the animals hunted by Folsom men, the mammoth
particularly, probably penetrated into the area in interglacial times,
because opinion is that elephants and bison were missing in Alaska
in Late Glacial and Karly Postglacial times, while others undoubtedly
migrated with the opening of the cordilleran corridor. Present indi-
cations are that it was at the latter stage that the hunters first ven-
tured into this vast New World. Many of the animals that served
as game were essentially the same as exist today, but as the people
moved toward the south they found and killed forms that are now
extinct, such as the mammoth, mastodon, some species of bison, the
camel, and the ground sloth. Although these extinct forms are con-
sidered as Pleistocene mammals, there appears to be no question but
that many of them may have lived on into Postglacial times. For
this reason the mere association of man-made tools with bones of
such creatures does not necessarily indicate a Pleistocene date. Other
complications are brought about by the probability that some forms—
the mammoth, mastodon and musk-oxen—followed the retreating
glaciers and, when found in some of the more northern districts, are
not actually as old as those uncovered in southern localities. How-
ever, two of the Folsom sites, Folsom and Clovis-Portales, have been
placed at the close of the Pleistocene with mention of the possibility
that they really belong within that period, and the Lindenmeier site
has been assigned to a phase within the Pleistocene on evidence apart
from animal remains. For this reason it becomes increasingly clear
that the Folsom hunters must have drifted down along the opening
corridor not long after the beginning of the glacial retreat.®

8 Antevs, 1935 b; Johnston, 1933.
THE FOLSOM PROBLEM—ROBERTS 543

Mention should be made of the distribution of fluted points. The
type has been known for a long time and variations of it have been
found from the Rockies to the Atlantic, from the Plains Provinces of
Canada to the Gulf of Mexico. It is represented in collections in
numerous museums and in at least one case has been called by another
name, the Seneca River point. It did not attract particular attention
until the finds at Folsom. This was largely because most of the
examples were picked up from the surface and were without definite
significance. The main area of concentration for the type lies in a
strip that stretches from Alberta and Saskatchewan in the north to
New Mexico and western Texas in the south. Smaller centers are
found in the eastern and southern States, notably western New
York, Ohio, Tennessee, and in a district along the boundary line
between central Virginia and central North Carolina. Only a few
sporadic examples have been found west of the Rockies and most of
them come from two districts in California, one in the southern part
of the State and the other in the northern. There are two main
classes of fluted points, one represented by the Folsom, Lindenmeier,
and similar forms found in the western plains strip along the Rockies,
and a larger, more generalized one embodying most of the character-
istics but not exhibiting the same degree of skilled workmanship in
their manufacture and for the most part lacking the fine secondary
retouch along the edges. The latter form is the one with the wide
distribution (pl. 15). The question is whether all should be called
Folsom points or if there should be some designation that did not
carry the implication of equal age. Dr. Howard and the writer have
used the terms Folsom-like and Folsomoid to indicate the distinction,
but both have been frowned upon by the archeological taxonomists.
H. C. Shetrone of the Ohio State Museum has suggested that they be
definitely termed Fluted Points as a class and the various forms
then be more specifically designated by place names such as Folsom,
Lindenmeier, Clovis, et cetera. ‘This proposal has considerable merit
and would remove much present confusion. However, a committee
appointed at the symposium on early man decided that the name
Folsom should be applied to all. Such being the case it would seem
that definite qualifiers should be used, as in the case of Mr. Shetrone’s
suggestion, and the various exampies be known as Folsom-Folsom,
Lindenmeier-lfolsom, Ohio-Folsom, or California Folsom.

The significance of the fluted points occurring east of the Mississippi
River is open to question. There is still no evidence suggesting their
possible age or place in the main archeological picture. The vast
majority are surface finds and although there seem to be several
centers, as mentioned previously, where they are picked up in com-
paratively large numbers, nothing has come to light that would
indicate their relationship to the cultural remains present in those
544 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938

areas. The fact that the eastern examples bear a striking resemblance
to those in the West does not make them of equal antiquity. They
may represent a survival of a highly specialized implement in later
horizons. Some students take a different view and regard the indi-
viduality of the form together with its apparent absence from the
recognized complexes in the East as a manifestation of its greater
age. On the basis of the distribution concept as an index to age—
a theory substantiated in some respects by evidence that tends to
indicate that there is a correlation between type and distribution, so
that the larger the area covered the older the form—the eastern
examples would indicate more antiquity than the western. But
until specimens are found in association with fauna comparable to
that in the West and accompanied by other implements now known
to belong to the Folsom complex, conclusions must be withheld.
‘The question becomes more complicated when it is recalled that the
Folsom implement makers no doubt chipped a variety of sizes and
qualities of points for use in hunting different kinds of game, and the
larger forms may merely represent those intended for big animals.
The California occurrences raise a number of questions. There
apparently is so marked a gap between them and the major centers
of the type that the problem of the relationship is difficult to solve.
Furthermore, many of the purported Folsom points from that region
are so nondescript in form that it requires stretching of the Folsom-
like category to the utmost to include them. In only a very few
cases is there an approximation of similarity to the Folsom-Folsom
or Lindenmeier-Folsom specimens. This matter of identification,
however, is one that has proved troublesome in all parts of the country,
and there has been a tendency to include points with a basal thinning,
not an actual facial fluting, in the Folsom classification. An explana-
tion for the presence of materials attributable to the Folsom complex
in California is hard to find in the light of present knowledge. They
may have worked westward from the southern plains area, but traces
of such a movement are scarce, and suggestions that the reverse was
the case, that the Folsom hunters worked east from southern Cali-
fornia and thence upward into the plains, seem entirely unwarranted
in the light of knowledge of the migration of the animals that formed
the chief source of sustenance and the occurrence of materials in that
area. It is more likely that the Pacific coast was reached by groups
drifting down the Fraser River corridor after it had opened. Coming
from the upper plains reservoir of hunting peoples, they could well
have possessed similar implements. While too little is known as
yet concerning the problem to make any definite statements, it may
be mentioned that in view of the indications that the Fraser route
opened subsequent to that of the western plains corridor, the Cali-
THE FOLSOM PROBLEM—ROBERTS 545

fornia remains may represent a somewhat later phase and for that
reason show some differences.

In closing, attention should be called to the fact that there are other
traces of early occupancy in portions of the plains area, particularly
in Minnesota and Texas. In some cases there are indications that
the remains may antedate those of the Folsom complex, in others
that they are contemporaneous with it. Although detailed consider-
ation of these occurrences is'not pertinent to the present discussion,
it is essential to mention them because they have significance in
connection with the study of early man in America, and the matter
of their relationship to or bearing on the Folsom problem is a phase
of the subject still to be studied.

LITERATURE CITED

ANTEVS, ERNST
1935 a. The occurrences of flints and extinct animals in pluvial deposits near
Clovis, N. Mex. Pt. 2, Age of the Clovis lake clays. Proc. Acad.
Nat. Sci. Philadelphia, vol. 87, pp. 304-312.
b. The spread of aboriginal man to North America. Geogr. Rev., vol.
25, No. 2, pp. 302-309, April.
Brown, BarNuM
1929. Folsom culture and its age (with discussion by Kirk Bryan). Bull.
Geol. Soe. Amer., vol. 40, pp. 128-129.
Bryan, FRANK
1938. A review of the geology of the Clovis finds reported by Howard and
Cotter. Amer. Antiquity, vol. 4, No. 2, pp. 113-136, October.
Bryan, Kirk
1937. Geology of the Folsom deposits in New Mexico and Colorado. In
Early Man, as depicted by leading authorities at the International
Symposium, Academy of Natural Sciences, Philadelphia, March
1937, pp. 1389-152. J. B. Lippincott Co., London.
CorFrin, Roy G.
1937. Northern Colorado’s first settlers. Publ. by Colorado State Coll.,
Fort Collins.
Cook, H. J.
1927. New geological and paleontological evidence bearing on the antiquity
of mankind. Nat. Hist., Journ. Amer. Mus. Nat. Hist., vol. 27, No.
3, pp. 240-247, May-June.
CoTTer, JoHN L.
1937. The occurrence of flints and extinct animals in pluvial deposits near
Clovis, N. Mex. Pt. 4, Report on excavation at the gravel pit, 1936.
Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Philadelphia, vol. 89, pp. 1-16.
1938. The occurrence of flints and extinct animals in pluvial deposits near
Clovis, N. Mex. Pt. 6, Report on field season of 1937. Proc.
Acad. Nat. Sci. Philadelphia, vol. 90, pp. 113-117.
Fieains, J. D.
1927. The antiquity of man in America. Nat. Hist., Journ. Amer. Mus.
Nat. Hist., vol. 27, No. 3, pp. 229-239, May-June.
1933. A further contribution to the antiquity of man in America. Proc.
Colorado Mus. Nat. Hist., vol. 12, No. 2.
1935. New World man. Proc. Colorado Mus. Nat. Hist., vol. 14, No. 1.
546 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938

Howarp, Epecar B.
1935 a. Evidence of early man in North America. Mus. Journ., Univ. Mus.,
Univ. Pennsylvania, vol. 24, Nos. 2-8, pp. 61-175.
_b. The occurrence of flints and extinct animals in pluvial deposits near
Clovis, N. Mex. Pt. 1, Introduction. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci.
Philadelphia, vol. 87, pp. 299-303.
Jounston, W. A.

1933. Quaternary geology of North America in relation to the migration of
man. In The American Aborigines, their origin and antiquity.
5th Pacific Sci. Congr., Canada, 1933, pp. 11-45.

Roserts, F. H. H., Jr.

1935. A Folsom complex: preliminary report on investigations at the Lin-
denmeier site in northern Colorado. Smithsonian Mise. Coll., vol.
94, No. 4.

1936. Additional information on the Folsom complex: report on the second
season’s investigations at the Lindenmeier site in northern Colorado.
Smithsonian Misc. Coll., vol. 95, No. 10.

1937. New World man. Amer. Antiquity, vol. 2, No. 3, pp. 172-177, Janu-
ary.

Stock, Curester, and Bons, F. D.

1936. The occurrence of flints and extinct animals in pluvial deposits near
Clovis, N. Mex. Pt. 3, Geology and vertebrate paleontology of the
later Quaternary near Clovis, N. Mex. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci.
Philadelphia, vol. 87, pp. 219-241.
Smithsonian Report, 1938.—Roberts PLATE 1

1. a, 6, c, original points from Folsom pit. a and 6, different sides of same specimen.

2. Fragment of stone in place near bone and portion of point that fits small piece.
(Pictures on this plate courtesy of Colorado Museum of Natural History).
Smithsonian Report, 1938.—Roberts PLATE 2

1. Folsom pit in summer of 1927. Point and bones in or at left of standing figure. (Photograph by
author. .

2. Point and bison ribs in situ. (Photograph courtesy of Colorado Museum of Natural History.) .
Smithsonian Report, 1938.—Roberts PLATE 3

1. General view of ‘‘blow-out’’ between Clovis and Portales.

2. Mammoth tusk weathering out of old lake bed. (Pictures on this plate courtesy of Dr. E. B. Howard.)
Smithsonian Report, 1938.—Roberts PLATE 4

1. Part of trench at Clovis sites where two mammoth skeletons and bison were uncovered in direct associa-
tion with Folsom points. (Picture courtesy of Dr. E. B. Howard.)

2. One characteristic type of Yuma points,
Smithsonian Report, 1938.—Roberts PLATE 5

1. Looking east across Lindenneier site. Cross indicates excavation area. (Photograph by author.)

2. View across Lindenmeier site toward the southwest. Excavations in central portion of picture.
(Photograph by author.)
Smithsonian Report, 1938.—Roberts

1. Deep pit in ravine bank at beginning of investigations. (Photograph by author.)

2. Large trenches cutting across site toward deep pit in ravine bank.

(Photograph by author.)
Smithsonian Report, 1938.—Roberts PLATE 7

1. Sifting material at lower end of trench leading into pit. (Photograph by author.)

2. End of large trench. Workman standing on level where artifacts were found. (Photograph by author.)
Smithsonian Report, 1938.—Roberts PLATE 8

1. Articulated foreleg of bison in situ at Lindenmeier site. (Photograph by author.)

2. Tip of projectile point lodged in bison vertebra.
Smithsonian Report, 1938.—Roberts PLATE 9

2. Split bones and stone implements in situ. Small numbers indicate artifacts. (Photograph by author.)
Smithsonian Report, 1938.—Roberts PLATE 10

ORNAMENTED BONE SCRAPS FROM LINDENMEIER SITE. (ACTUAL

Smithsonian Report, 1938.—Roberts PLATE 11

FOLSOM POINTS FROM THE LINDENMEIER SITE. (ACTUAL SIZE.)
Smithsonian Report, 1938.—Roberts PLATE 12

SNUB-NOSED SCRAPERS FROM THE LINDENMEIER SITE. (ACTUAL SIZE.)
Smithsonian Report, 1938.—Roberts PLATE 13

SIDE SCRAPERS FROM THE LINDENMEIER SITE. (ACTUAL SIZE.)
Smithsonian Report, 1938.—Roberts PLATE 14

1. Bones and stone objects at base of heavy soil zone. (Photograph by author.)

2. Workmen removing bone scraps and stone implements ae layer below heavy soil zone. (Photograph
by author.
Smithsonian Report, 1938.—Roberts PLATE 15

TYPICAL FORMS OF POINTS FOUND IN SOUTHERN AND EASTERN STATES.
(ACTUAL SIZE.)
THE ROMAN ORIENT AND THE FAR EAST!
By C. G. SELIGMAN

[With four plates]

Compared with the civilizations of Egypt and the Near East,
Chinese civilization as we know it is not of great age. Authentic
history does not begin until about the ninth century B. C. (a com-
monly accepted date is 841 B. C.), nor have we archeological finds
that we can reasonably date prior to the thirteenth or fourteenth
century B. C., though the beauty and mature style of the earliest
known bronzes indicates a history of at least hundreds of years before
this.

Figure 1 illustrates the time-relations of China and the Near East.
In spite of its magnificent bronzes and graved bones, we know little
of the Shang-Yin dynasty, which in date comes near to coinciding with
the 18th dynasty of Egypt, while the Shang-Yin script is still some-
what primitive, indicating perhaps a period of no more than a few
hundred years from an unknown pictographic origin.

The above chronology applies only to northern China, where Chi-
nese civilization arose; indeed it did not reach south of the Yangtze
until a few centuries B.C. The civilization of Japan is even younger,
and is now generally accepted as not more than some 2,000 years old.
Thus the earliest contacts between West and East were between the
Roman Orient and China.

In order to have more space to discuss historic contacts—extending
over something more than 1,000 years (between 200 B. C. and A. D.
900)—I shall deal very briefly with prehistoric contacts and refer only
to the socketed celt. This highly specialized form of axe is one of the
most characteristic implements of the Late Bronze Age (c. 1300-900
B. C.) of central and eastern Europe.? Using geological terminology,
we may look upon it as the type-fossil of its age and zone of distribu-
tion. It is found over the whole of northwestern, central, and espe-
cially northeastern Europe; it occurs in Italy, but not in Greece, and is

1 The Lloyd-Roberts lecture for the year 1935, delivered before the Royal College of Physicians. Re-
printed by permission, with slight revision, from Antiquity, vol. 11, No. 41, March 1937.

1 Déchelette, Manuel d’Arch6ologie, vol. 2, p. 106, Paris, 1910. In eastern Russia the date given by G.
von Merhart, Bronzezeit am Yenissei, p. 16, Vienna, 1926, 1s from 1000 to 400 B. O.
547

114728—39——36
548

EGYPT

MEDITERRANEAN
LANDS AND
NEAR EAST

3000

&
Ay
4
oO
ica]
i
H
RM
<
ZA
Pp
Q
&
fac}
a
NARMER
(MENES)
2 | PYRAMIDS
2g
& | DYN. XII
DYN. XVIII
IRON COMMON
™M
raf C
a3 Bic:
oe A. D.
2.

SARGON OF AKKAD

2000

1000

ROME
A. U. C. 753

ALEXANDER

DS

iS)
EUCI

4
CARTHAGE DESTROYED

| & |

f=)

S) oh: SNES D

mM
HAGIA SOPHIA
4DEDIGATED; 538

mHEJIRA, 622

1000

FiaureE 1.—Time chart.

ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938

CHINA

YANG SHAO
(CHALCOLITHIC CIVILIZATION)

HSIA STATE
(FAINTLY HISTORICAL)

SHANG-YIN DYNASTY

CHOU DYNASTY
(FEUDAL AGE)

AUTHENTIC HISTORY BEGINS

CONFUCIUS

CH’IN DYNASTY, 221

HAN DYNASTY BEGINS, 206

FIRST HISTORIC CONTACT WITH
WEST, C. 130

IRON COMMON

HAN DYNASTY ENDS, 220

PERIOD OF FIGHTING, PARTI-
TION AND PARTIAL NOM
CONQUEST UNDER NINE
SHORT DYNASTIES, LASTING
400 YEARS

T’ANG DYNASTY, 618

SUNG DYNASTY, 960
ROMAN ORIENT AND FAR EAST—SELIGMAN 549

absent from Africa; no specimen has ever been recovered from an
Egyptian tomb, nor does it occur in Asia Minor, Persia, or India.
The socketed celt passed along no definite or organized trade route—
there is good historical evidence to show that the silk route was not
organized in its entirety until the second century B. C.—but we may
picture it as borne eastward from southern Russia on a wide front
across the Urals, specimens passing from hand to hand among the
pastoral nomads of Siberia, until here and there, as at Minusinsk, a
metallurgical center came into existence, the manufactured products

FIGURE 2.—Socketed celts.

being carried far and wide north and east of the great mountain ranges
of Central Asia.’

Figure 2 represents three socketed celts. The one on the left is
from Hungary and that in the center (both in the British Museum)
from China, as is that on the right. The first character on the central
specimen Professor Yetts informs me is clearly ho, “growing grain.”’

From these early contacts with Siberia and the West, we turn to
that great track, nearly 5,000 miles long, which, crossing mountain,
steppe, and desert, constituted the highway along which Ariadne’s
silken thread joined the farthest East with Antioch, the most im-
portant city of the Roman Orient.

This route was first organized throughout its length in the second
century B. C., but long before this lapis lazuli was reaching Ur, and

3 When this lecture was given I held that the socketed celt did not reach China until the seventh or sixth
century B.C. We now know that the actual date was several hundred years earlier, i. e., in the twelfth
or eleventh century B. C., at the end of the Shang-Yin dynasty. There exist specimens from An-yang, the
capital of the later kings of that dynasty, which can only be dated to that period of bronze decoration to
which Professor Yetts has applied the term ‘‘First Phase,’’ historically the latter part of the Shang-Yin and
early part of the Chou dynasties (Antiquity, vol. 12, 1938).

For a general discussion of the passage of the socketed celt from Europe to China see The Journal of the
Royal Anthropological Institute, vol. 50, 1920,
550 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938

even predynastic Egypt (i. e., 3000 B. C. and earlier). There can be
no doubt that this rare mineral was mined in eastern Afghanistan, and
reached Mesopotamia and Egypt, passing, as we may infer, over what
was later to be the organized western third of the trade route. Be-
sides this, commonsense indicates that from early times hillmen and
dwellers on the plains must have exchanged goods along its course,
and pastoral nomads have raided and traded with the sedentaries.
But it was not until China’s discovery of the West that a highway
which was to join Pacific and Atlantic was brought into being and
organized to constitute a single whole, as definitely intended for the
far movement of goods and men as is its modern successor, the Trans-
Siberian Railway.

It must, however, be remembered that while the silk route across
Asia is of special interest on account of the discoveries by Stein and
others that have been made along its course, the use of the monsoons
from the first century A. D. as a means of direct passage from the Red
Sea to India was of even greater economic importance. Rome’s trade
with India was always greater than with the Far East; part of the silk
she received was brought by sea in ships which picked up their wares
in ports as far east as Tongking and Burmah, as well as in the nearer
ports of western India such as Muziris (the modern Cranganore). It
is significant that no hoards of Roman coins have been found in China
as they have in India.5

The various stages of the highway have been often described, indeed
the route was mapped with amazing accuracy—considering the then
state of geographical studies—in a work dedicated to Napoleon ® by
the learned Joseph Hager of Pavia University, who pictures the actual
arrival of a Greek caravan at Sianfu, while within the last few years
G. F. Hudson has given an excellent survey in his important work,
Europe and China. In what follows I have drawn largely on his
account, but have considered it convenient to divide the highway into
three main sections—eastern, middle, and western—rather than to
consider it in four sections depending on political factors, as he does.

The eastern section, which may be regarded as starting either at
Ch’ang-an (the Han capital) or at Lan Chow in western Kansu, 1. e.,
the extreme northwest of China, passes south of the westernmost
extension of the Great Wall but north of the Nanshan range, westward

4 Gregory, J. W., The story of the road, pp. 33-34, 1931; also Lucas, A., Ancient Egyptian materials and
industries, pp. 347, 348, 1934.

5 The Indian trade, and the sea-borne trade from the Far East which traveled up the Red Sea, is discussed.
at length in an excellent work by E. R. Warmington entitled ‘‘The commerce between the Roman Empire
and India,’’ (Cambridge, 1928). My statement with regard to Roman coins may not be quite accurate.
Professor Yetts draws my attention to a paper by Bushnell (Journ. Peking Oriental Soc., vol. 1, No. 2, 1886)
recording the discovery of 16 Roman copper coins dating from Tiberius to Aurelian, made some 50 or 60
years earlier in Shansi, about 80 miles from T’ai yuan fu.

6 Description des Médailles Chinoises du Cabines Impérial de France, précédée d’un essai de Numis-

matique Chinoise, avee des éclaircissemens sur le commerce des Grecs avec la Chine * * * Paris, an
xml=1805.
spree aro * a
THE Sit ACOY

"

ay oe Pe. &
anil ‘eve P
6 emcee Ratna mac “rie
aKethe eee 9) ek

is - t — 7 Ts .

nme >) - ps ag :
Ais were

Urumchi A
Turfaye"* rey

“eich

Maz,

ztris\

JE
THE SILK ROUTES

~ Routes
*Loulan = Ancient: name
*Kucha ~ Modern

1000

~ Miles

Figure 3,
114728—39 (Fuce p. 551)
ROMAN ORIENT AND FAR EAST—SELIGMAN 551

across Sinkiang (Chinese Turkestan), skirting the Tarim Desert either
north or south to reach Kashgar (Issedon Scythica), the gate of the
Pamirs. Kashgar is some 1,500 miles from Lan Chou, and Turfan,
the region of Stein’s great discoveries, lies roughly halfway between
the two cities.

The middle section crosses the Pamirs to reach Merv (Antiochia
Margiana) by alternate routes, via Samarkand (Marakanda) or
Balkh (Bactra).

From Merv the western section ran west and south across northern
Iran to Hecatompylos and Hamadan (Ecbatana) to Seleucia-Ctesiphon
just below the modern Baghdad, crossing the Euphrates at Zeugma
where there was a Roman legionary camp, and thence to Antioch,
whence the goods were distributed through the Empire.

This is no place to discuss the ethnology of the peoples along the
trade route, though variation in cultural habit must necessarily have
greatly influenced commerce along the highway. West of the Pamirs
the inhabitants may in a general way be called Iranian; east of this it
would perhaps be natural to expect a Mongol or at least predomi-
nantly Mongoloid population, but this is not so. The careful analysis
by T. A. Joyce of the measurements and photographs brought back
by Stein indicates that east of the Pamirs the ethnic type is predomi-
nantly Alpine, with considerable Turki admixture and traces of
Turki and Afghan, definitely not Mongol.” This may to some extent
account for the hold that various items of western thought and habit
achieved along the trade route, though too much can be made of the
reputed Chinese unwillingness to adopt foreign ideas and practices;
for, as noted later, the T’ang period—perhaps that of China’s greatest
brilliance—was marked by the influx and ready acceptance of foreign-
ers and of foreign (Western and Indian) ideas.

Although there were many factors that tended to the early utiliza-
tion of the silk route by the Chinese and emphasized their determina-
tion to keep it open, it cannot be too strongly stressed that it was
neither desire for geographical knowledge nor love of conquest or of
gain that dictated China’s exploration of the West. It was in the
first place due to sheer military necessity, the same need that led to
the building of the Great Wall in order to counter the attacks of the
barbarians of the North. These were the Hsiung Nu nomads, a
Turki-speaking stock, identified with the Huns who invaded Europe
a few centuries later. Under the Emperor Wu (141-87 B. C.) the
struggle, waged intermittently for a couple of centuries, became a
desperate contest, into which was thrown the full strength of the
Empire. The hope of finding assistance in the West and so outflank-

7 Joyce, T. A., On the physical anthropology of the oases of Khotan and Keriya, Journ. Roy. Anthrop.

Inst., vol. 33, 1903; and Notes on the physical anthropology of Chinese Turkestan and the Pamirs, op. cit.,
vol. 42, 1912.
552 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938

ing the Hsiung Nu was the primary purpose of that western journey
upon which Wu sent his general, Chang Ch’ien, thereafter maintain-
ing regular touch with Iranian lands.

Hand in hand with the determination to repulse the Hsiung Nu,
went the Chinese desire for a supply of those fine Iranian horses which
in China were called ‘‘blood-sweating horses,’’ fabled to be the off-
spring of a heavenly steed, for it was at this time that the Chinese,
in response to Hsiung Nu attacks from the North, were developing a
new technique of warfare in which cavalry played the preponderant
part. The fodder of these noble beasts was alfalfa (Medicago sativa),
and Chang Ch’ien, being a man of judgment, not only brought back
the horses but also alfalfa seeds, leading to the rapid diffusion of the
plant through northern China. The best horses appear to have come
from Ferghana, now the eastern portion of Russian Turkestan, where
alfalfa still yields four or five crops a year and is cultivated up to a
height of 5,000 feet.®

Another gift brought by Chang Ch’ien from the West was the grape
used in Ferghana to make wine; the vine was, however, cultivated
for centuries in its new home before the Chinese made wine from it,
first apparently in the seventh century.®

It was Chang Ch’ien’s quest for the “blood-sweating’’ horses that
established the first contacts between China and the Mediterranean
world, for the Ta Yiian, the owners of the coveted horses, were the
inhabitants of Sogdiana (between Oxus and Jaxartes), while Ta Hsia,
the country newly settled by the Ta Yiieh-chih, was Bactria, both
occupying the furthest extremity of the great Bactrian-Sogdian
satrapy of Alexander’s Empire. Although at this time the Seleucids
had lost their outlying possessions, especially in the East,!° even the
remotest territories had been so thoroughly permeated by Hellenistic
influence that they retained something of Hellenism long after this
period, though exposed to the enmity of the rising Parthian Empire."

Chang Ch’ien’s report has been preserved, perhaps in his own
words. Mr. Fitzgerald’s translation runs as follows:

Ta Yuan [Ferghana], the people are sedentary [not nomads] and cultivate the
soil. They have many superb horses, which sweat blood when they perspire.
There are cities, houses, and mansions as in China. To the northeast is the

country of the Wu Sun (the Ili Valley], to the east is Yu T’ien [Kashgaria]. West
of Yu T’ien the rivers flow westward into the Western Sea [the Caspian and

8 Laufer, B., Sino-Iranica, p. 210, Chicago, 1919. Several aspects of the quest for the superior horse are
investigated by Yetts (The horse, a factor in early Chinese history, Eurasia, Septentrionalis Antiqua, vol.
9, Dp. 231-255, 1934).

9 Laufer, op. cit., pp. 221 et seq.

10In 255 B. C. or thereabouts, Bactria revolted under Diodotus and gradually became independent,
Diodotus II becoming king some time before 227 (Cambridge Ancient History, vol. 7, pp. 719, 720).

11 The Parthians dated their era from the year 247 B. C. (loc. cit.). In order to emphasize the high degree
in which Hellenistic influence was present in the Satrapy, it is worth remembering that both Herat and
Kandahar when founded bore the name of Alexandria. I may also refer to a passage by Rostovtzeff bear-
ing on this point (Cambridge Ancient History, vol. 7, pp. 157-8).
ROMAN ORIENT AND FAR EAST—SELIGMAN 553

Aral, Chang Ch’ien did not distinguish between the two]. From Yi T’ien east-
ward the rivers flow to the east into the salt swamps [the Tarim river system].
From these swamps the waters flow underground until they reappear as the
source of the Yellow River. From the salt swamp to Ch’ang An, the distance is
5,000 Li. The Right horde of Hsiung Nu live between the salt swamps and the
Great Wall of Lung Hsi [Kansu]. The Wu Sun [Khirgiz], K’ang Chu, and Yen
Ts’ai, who are northwest of the K’ang Chu, and Ta Yiieh Chi, are nomads with
customs similar to the Hsiung Nu. Ta Hsia [Bactria] is southwest of Ta Yiian
and has similar customs. When your servant was in Ta Hsia he saw large bam-
boos and cloth of Shu [Szechuan]. When he asked the people of Ta Hsia how
they obtained these things they told him that their merchants bought them in
Shén Tu [Sind, India], which is a country several hundred li southeast of Ta Hsia,
and is a sedentary nation, like Ta Hsia. Both Ta Hsia and Ta Yiian are tribu-
tary to An Hsi [Parthia, so called from the dynasty of Arsaces]. So far as your
servant could judge Ta Hsia is 12,000 li [4,000 miles] from China. As it is north-
east of Shén Tu, this kingdom cannot be so far from China.!

Distances are exaggerated (the liis a third of a mile) and the source
of the Yellow River incorrectly stated, but apart from these errors the
report is a plain statement of fact. Chang Ch’ien had, however, so
thoroughly experienced in his own person the difficulties of the north-
ern route that he persuaded the Emperor to seek to approach the West
overland via India, a reasonable enough suggestion at a time when the
extreme difficulty of the country between Yunnan and Burmah was
unknown; for even at the present day the deep gorges of the Mekong
and Salween rivers make this one of the most inaccessible parts of the
earth’s surface. When it was realized that this route was impossible,
interest once more centered on the northern route, and several embas-
sies reached Ta Yiian. For a long time the ruler of this state reso-
lutely refused to hand over any of his celebrated horses, and little
progress was made until Chinese envoys seized some of the best
horses and with them set out for China, only to be ambushed by the
Yiian, who killed the Chinese and recovered the horses. An attempt
to revenge this insult resulted in the defeat of a Chinese army, and it
was not until a further army was despatched that an agreed peace was
made (102 B. C.), one of the terms being that the Chinese received
several of the finest horses of Ta Yiian and a large number of inferior
quality.

Some years after the death of the Emperor Wu there came a split
in the ranks of the Hsiung Nu, whose northern and southern hordes
quarrelled and so weakened each other that the southern leader did
homage at Ch’ang-an. Chinese vigilance in the west relaxed, and
war broke out again during the reign of Han Ming Ti (A. D. 58-77),
who was forced to realize that Turkestan must again be brought under
Chinese influence. In A. D. 73 Pan Chao, a really great general and
administrator, began his career in Turkestan, though it was not until

12 Fitzgerald, O. P., China: a cultural history, pp. 178-9, 1935,
554 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938

A.D. 77 that he was given a free hand. His policy was to use native
levies of what we should now call “friendlies,” with a stiffening of
experienced Chinese officers and soldiers:

For the next seventeen years Pan Chao carried out this plan with unbroken
success. One by one the kings of the Turkestan oases were reduced to obedience,
until the whole Tarim Valley was under the peaceful rule of the Chinese viceroy.
In A. D. 97, after reducing the last contumacious prince, Pan Chao crossed the T’ien
Shan Mountains, and with an army of 70,000 men advanced unopposed to the
shores of the Caspian Sea. Never before, and never since, has a Chinese army
encamped almost on the frontiers of Europe. The whole stretch of country between
the T’ien Shan and the Caspian submitted to the Chinese without fighting. More
than fifty “kings’’ acknowledged Chinese overlordship and sent their heirs as
hostages to Lo-yang."®

East to West the highway essentially carried silk, and, to a much
smaller extent, furs. The quantity of silk carried was very large;
Hudson, referring to the age of the Antonines, i. e., the middle of the
second century A. D., writes—no doubt with some little exaggeration—
of silken fabrics being “‘well nigh as familiar in Londinium as in Lo-
yang’. We have little knowledge of the goods carried eastward in
exchange; we do not hear of any particular product of the Near East
being exported in large quantities, and what records we have suggest
that the Roman Empire, at any rate in the early centuries A. D., in
the main paid for its silk in gold. A discovery by Stein enables us to
appreciate how thoroughly the trade was organized on the Chinese side.
On his 1918 expedition he found two strips of undyed cream-colored
silk in one of the refuse heaps adjoining a post on the old Chinese
limes west of Tun-huang. The silk could be dated by other objects
in the heap to between A. D. 67 and 137. Of this happy find Stein
writes that one strip “bears the ink impression of a Chinese seal, not
yet deciphered, and by the selvages retained at both ends is shown -
to have come from a piece or roll of silk which had a width of about
19.7 inches or 50 centimeters.”? The other strip, 12% inches long and
incomplete at one end, bears a Chinese inscription read by M.
Chavannes * * * ‘A roll of silk from K’ang-fu in the kingdom of
Jén-ch’éng; width 2 feet and 2 inches; length 40 feet; weight 25 ounces;
value 618 pieces of money”.

Here, then, on a roll of silk of middle or late Han times prepared for
export we have precise indications of its origin, dimensions, weight,
and price, while exploration at Loulan provided further evidence that
a width of about 50 cm was a standard export size.'®

Yet in spite of the regular import, which went on for centuries, it
is difficult to quote a single example of Chinese silk discovered in

13 Fitzgerald, op. cit., p. 191.
14 Hudson, G. F., Europe and China, p. 91, 1931.
18Stein, Aurel, Central Asian relics of China’s ancient silk trade, Asia Major. Histh Anniversary Volume,

DP. 368, 1923. See also Serindia, pp. 373, 374, 1921,
16 Stein, Serindia, loc. cit., and pl. 37.
ROMAN ORIENT AND FAR EAST—SELIGMAN 555

Europe or the Near East.” The magnificent early medieval silken
textiles that we find in church and cathedral treasuries are not of
the Far East but have been woven in Roman or in Persian lands. In
the latter, weaving attained an intense activity, indicating access to
large quantities of raw silk. Though it was not until the sixth
century A. D. that the eggs of the silk moth (Bombyx mori) were
brought to Byzantium, in Persia the silk-weaving industry appears
to have been in a flourishing state in the fourth century."® Once silk
became common, fabrics bearing typical Sassanian designs were
exported eastward in considerable bulk. It is only necessary to look
at the plates in Stein’s Serindia, portraying silks discovered in Chinese
Turkestan, to be convinced of this; indeed they became so popular
that the Chinese produced figured silks in typical Sassanian style.
The most striking evidence for this is the celebrated “hunter” silk of
the seventh-eighth century from the treasure of the Horiuji Mon-
astery at Narain Japan (pl. 1). The composition is typically Persian,
but the fabric was woven in China and seals with Chinese characters
are seen on the hindquarters of the horses, in place of the Sassanian
star.” From Tun-huang, Stein has figured a number of silks of great
beauty, showing confronted animals in Sassanian style but with
Chinese modifications. Two head-pieces for banners, figured in
Serindia (pl. 64), constitute particularly instructive examples of the
adaptation of a western textile motif by Chinese hands; this silk is
definitely hybrid, containing both obvious Sassanian and Chinese
motifs. The design is composed of large circular medallions separated
from each other by lozenge-shaped masses of elaborate foliage which
almost fill the background. The outer part of the medallions is
occupied by a double circular border with patterns of spaced elliptical
rosettes outside and quatrefoils inside. All this is distinctly Sassanian
in type, but instead of the interior of the medallion being taken up
by confronted animals it is occupied by four pairs of geese, quite
naturalistic in treatment, disposed round a central somewhat stylized
floral element. The geese are Chinese in treatment, so much so indeed
that they immediately recalled to me the birds inlaid on one of the
most beautiful of the lacquer boxes in the Shésé-in. This silk was
probably woven in China proper.

17 This is, perhaps, scarcely true at the present day, though it was so a couple of years ago. <A very few
pieces of silk judged to be of Chinese weave have been discovered in the West; work recently carried out
at Palmyra—the great caravan town northeast of Damascus on the northern edge of the Syrian and Arabian
desert—appears to have produced some examples (R. Pfister, Textiles de Palmyra, Paris, 1934), and it has
recently been suggested that a piece of fifth century silk derived from a Rhine cathedral and now in
Berlin may have been woven in China (V. Sylvan, Eine Chinesische Seide mit spitgriechschen Muster
aus dem 5. bis 6. Jahrhundert, Ostasiatische Zeitschrift, n.s., vol. 11, pp. 22, 27, 1935.

18 Dalton, O. M., Byzantine art and archeology, p. 584, 1911.

19 The “hunter” type is one of those popular Persian designs in which a mounted hero is shooting wild
beasts, ‘‘the whole framed in a medallion and repeated over the surface, the medallions being interlaced or
connected by small tangent circles, while the interspaces are filled with formal foliage. The huntsman is

usually duplicated so that the composition is symmetrical, the two figures being usually back to back, but
turning inwards to release the arrow” (O. M. Dalton, op. cit.. pp. 590-91).
556 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938

Besides the heavy export of gold already alluded to, and in spite
of the high rate of destruction which the lapse of 2,000 years entails,
we have definite evidence in specimens surviving to our own time of
the export from the Roman Orient of at least one kind of luxury
article, namely glass. Apart from beads, concerning which I shall
have more to say later, we can recognize nearly a dozen pieces of early
“Mediterranean” ” glass still existing in Korea, China, and Japan,
and Stein found many fragments of glass (apparently Roman) during
his excavations. Realizing when on a visit to the Far East a few
years ago that glass might constitute an interesting feature of the
incoming trade from the West, I took the opportunity of noting all
the specimens of western glass that I was able to see, and also made
inquiries as to the occurrence of glass beads and pendants and other
small objects believed by the Chinese to be of considerable age. The
results were sufficiently encouraging to lead to further study, and
with the assistance of a number of kind friends—all specialists in
some aspect of the subject, whether in archeology or chemistry—it
has been possible to reach certain interesting conclusions.”!

In 1929, in Korea, I was shown two perfect glass vessels, pronounced
by experts to have been made in the Roman Orient (no doubt Syria)
about the fourth century or a little later, excavated by the Japanese
from the royal graves of the kings of Silla, the kingdom which for at
least seven centuries from about 100 B. C. occupied what is now
southeastern Korea. One of these vessels, for the photograph of
which I am indebted to Prof. 8. Umehara, is represented in plate
2, figure 1. These two specimens, with a large dish of ‘“Roman,”’ 1. e.,
probably Syrian, glass (pl. 2, fig. 2) of the third—fifth centuries A. D.,
found in China (Honan) and now in the possession of Mrs. Margot
Holmes, are probably the earliest western glass vessels hitherto dis-

20 We know nothing of the glass-making sites in classic lands in classic times. I therefore use ‘‘Mediter-
ranean’ as a convenient term for glass made by the old civilizations which existed on its shores or in vital
contact with it, including Mesopotamia.

11T would especially acknowledge my indebtedness to Mr. Horace Beck, whose unrivaled knowledge
of beads and early glass has been invaluable, as well as to Mr. R. L. Hobson, Mr. Bernard Rackham, Prof.
Perceval Yetts, and Mr. G. Eumorfopoulos for much kindly advice. On the chemical side I have had the
advantage of unlimited help from the Scientific Laboratories of the Courtauld Institute of Art (University
of London), so that it gives me the greatest pleasure to thank Prof. W. G. Constable, the Director of the
Institute, and Dr. P. D. Ritchie, lately Head of the Scientific Department, for their interest and assistance.
Lam also greatly indebted to the Rt. Rev, Bishop White, formerly Bishop of Honan, for specimens and advice.
I should also like to acknowledge help given by Dr. Otto Samson, formerly of the Ethnographic Museum,

Hamburg, while for permission to reproduce figures 11 and 12 I must thank the authorities of the British
Museum and of the India Office, respectively.
ROMAN ORIENT AND FAR EAST—SELIGMAN 557

covered in the Far East.” Some three centuries later are the half-
dozen specimens of ‘‘Arab”’ glass * preserved in Japan in the Shés6-in
at Nara. This houses the property of the Emperor Shimu, dedicated
after his death by his pious queen Kiémio (A. D. 755) to the Todaiji
monastery, to which in his lifetime he had been devoted.

So much for glass vessels that were certainly imported, though
whether by the transcontinental land route or by sea we cannot say.
We can, however, affirm with confidence that glass beads made in the
Roman Orient (including Egypt) were traded eastward along the
land route. Our evidence for this is twofold: (1) The discovery by Stein
in Chinese Turkestan in the neighborhood of the trade route of beads
of western origin, as well as of other objects of glass or frit of western
origin; (2) the recognition by Mr. Beck and myself of ‘‘Mediterranean”’
eye-beads, of a type common in Egypt, among a large number of minor
glass objects collected by Bishop White at Lo-yang (the capital of
China during the later part of the Chow dynasty). These may
perhaps be dated to the middle of the third century B. C., though
Bishop White is inclined to place them two and a half centuries earlier.

The Coptic (Egyptian) gilt beads discovered by Stein come from
the Loulan and Niya sites in the Tarim desert, which were abandoned
not later than the third and fourth centuries A. D.** On the other hand,
the Lo-yang beads recognized by Mr. Beck and myself as being Egyp-
tian in origin are of an earlier type, which may be put down to any time
within the last half of the last millennium B.C. The site where they
were found in China is generally dated to about 250 B. C., which agrees
well with their Mediterranean date. The body of these beads is of
pale green-blue glass—translucent rather than transparent—with
inlaid “‘eyes’’ having a deep blue center surrounded by concentric
white, brown, and white rings. Not only is there the strongest
resemblance, amounting almost to identity, but Dr. Ritchie reports as
the result of spectrographic analysis that the specimens ‘‘were qual-
itatively and quantitatively practically identical in composition.”

Beads of approximately the same date have also been found, which
are not of glass but which copy the Egyptian glass beads to which I

22 [ have not included in my examples of early western glass a vase in the Royal Ontario Museum, Toronto,
covered with lacquer or some similar substance, and decorated with Amazon heads, as this has not yet been
adequately studied. Some account will be found in The Burlington Magazine, 1922, pp. 225-7.

33 Five of these specimens, figured in vol. 7 (pl. 1-5) of the Shésé-in Catalogue, may be considered to have
been made in Mesopotamia, Persia, or possibly Alexandria and be dated to about A. D. 700. I take this
opportunity of thanking Messrs. W. A. H. King and R. Hinks of the British Museum for information con-
cerning the provenance of these early pieces of western glass.

Besides these there are numerous smaller pieces of glass in the Shésd-in. I have not seen them myself,
but owe my knowledge of them to Prof. Jiro Harada, whom I take this opportunity of thanking for his
assistance. So numerous are these specimens that it seems unlikely that any considerable number are of
western origin. They include 200 glass tips (blue, brown, yellow, and green) for the rods (jiku) on which are
rolled sutra scripts, and about 62,500 glass beads, while many glass beads of different colors help to compose
the headdresses worn by the Emperor Shomu and his consort. There are also pieces of bead work and
lumps of unworked glass.

% Tt must not be thought that Stein’s discoveries of Egyptian beads were limited to a particular type of
Coptic bead. His finds include many other specimens of Roman-Egyptian type.
558 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938

have just referred. Presumably these were made for the poorer folk
who could not afford anything so expensive as glass, which was
certainly of high value in China. They have a composite core, and
are covered with a bluish glaze, the ‘eyes’ being produced by local
heaping up of brown and white glazes to give the desired effect.

It has been generally accepted on literary evidence that glass was
not made in China until the fifth century A. D. Hirth quotes an
historical work, the Pei-shih, to the effect that in the reign of the Wei
Emperor T’ai Wu (A. D. 424-52) traders from the land of the Ta
Yiieh-chih (Bactria) came to his capital [in what is now Shansil, stating
that by melting together certain minerals they could produce glass
of any color. They were told to find the required material in the
neighboring hills, and did this so successfully that the glass they
produced was considered superior to that brought from the West.
An older work, the Wei Annals, states that the foreigners came not
from Ta Yiieh-chih but from Tien Chu-kuo, i. e., India.% Stein
refers with approval to the above account in connection with his
discoveries at Loulan,” nor does Hudson dissent,” but the facts given
below indicate that glass was made in China at least as early as the
third century B. C., if not earlier. This is but another example of
what has often happened before, namely, a belief accepted on literary
evidence has to give way to the findings of archeology. Nor doI base
my conclusions solely on the specimens that I have handled or that
have been analyzed, for much corroborative evidence will be found
in the specimens described and figured by Bishop White in his volume,
‘Tombs of Old Lo-yang.

The import of vessels of such fragile material as glass seems proof
positive of the high value attached to this substance in China, and this
view is supported by a number of glass objects of minor importance
which have come to light in the last few years. Many of these are of
‘Chinese manufacture, as is indicated by the presence in the glass of the
element barium in substantial amount, a remarkable fact, since, so
far as I can discover, barium, except in traces, is not known to occur in
Western or Near Eastern glass, ancient or modern, until about 1884,
when, as Mr. Beck informs me, it was purposely introduced as a
constituent of some of the new glasses with high refractive index and
low dispersion put on the market by Messrs. Schott of Jena.*

The beads I shall discuss immediately ; other glass objects of interest
are the ear ornaments (sometimes called capstan beads) and the
ceremonial disks (imitating jade) called pi, placed under the pelvis

35 Hirth, Chinesische Studien, p. 65, Miinchen u. Leipzig, 1890.

% Serindia, p. 393.

77 Europe and China, p. 96.

% Analyses of two early beads containing barium will be found in a note contributed by Mr. Beck and

myself to Nature, vol. 33, p. 982, 1934. One bead contained sufficient barium to give barium oxide 19.2
wpercent.
ROMAN ORIENT AND FAR EAST—SELIGMAN 559

of a corpse, which with glass cross-pieces of swords are known from
the graves of those who—as we may infer—could not afford jade.
These beads, containing a high percentage of barium, together
with a number of glass plaques, constitute a group of objects of
Han or late Chou date, both beads and plaques being sometimes
inlaid in bronze or silver. They all have in common the interesting
feature that the glass body is inlaid with a number of small white
rings, producing eyelets, with a white outline and colored center.
Often, but by no means invariably, the white inlay is crescentic rather
than circular, producing in the ‘‘eyelets’”’ a peculiar revolving effect.
In the majority of the beads the eyelets are collected into small
groups surrounded by an inlaid circle of white glass, which gives an
extremely handsome appearance against the generally dark blue or
greenish blue of the glass constituting the body of the bead. These

FIGURE 4.—Bead (3) and plaque (c. #) of barium glass of Han or pre-Han period.

beads are of high specific gravity, and spectrographic analysis of a
number of beads and one plaque, all conforming more or less rigidly
to the type described, showed that they all contained barium.

Other pieces of glass, also of supposed Han date, do not contain
barium, indicating the existence of more than one center of glass-
making in northern China in early times.”

Let us now consider the origin of the pattern on these beautiful
beads of barium-containing glass. The resemblance of many of the
Lo-yang beads to certain beads of diverse and sometimes unknown
origin in the Beck collection, as well as to some of definitely known
European provenance in various museums, immediately suggests that
the prototypes of the ornament of the Lo-yang beads are to be found
in the West; and since, where their provenance is known, the majority
of the European beads that I suppose to be the prototypes of the
Chinese are recognized by archeologists as belonging to the Late Iron
Age (though a few may date to the end of the Early Iron Age), we
have a date for their spread eastward which accords singularly well

#2 Prof. C. G. Cullis, whom I consulted with regard to the presence of barium ores in China, writes that
he knows of no record of “‘straight’”’ barium deposits in China, but that there are lead-zinc deposits and mines

in plenty and that it is from such that he would expect the barium in the glass to be derived. Actually
barium and lead are associated in a number of beads, etc., examined by Dr. Ritchie.
560 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938

with the date of the Lo-yang beads. In fact it would be unreason-
able not to admit the high probability that the Chinese beads are
imitations, though not slavish imitations, of the European. Figure
5 shows a number of Chinese beads of the Lo-yang type which I have
been discussing, and also sketches of two of the presumed European
prototypes.

I have, perhaps, devoted overmuch space to glass, but no doubt
many objects of beauty and rarity reached the Far East, either directly
by caravan or ship or indirectly, passing from hand to hand, being
copied and perhaps modified in form in the process of transmission.
The bull-headed rhyton is a case in point. I have discussed this

Mediterranean
origin

Ching

FiGuRE 5.—Chinese beads of Han or pre-Han date, with prototypes of ‘Mediterranean’’ origin.

elsewhere,” so that all I need say here is that there is so close a
resemblance between classical, Seleucid or Parthian, and ancient
Chinese examples that there can be no doubt that the rhytons of the
Near and Far East have a common western origin.

So far I have in the main dealt with events of the Han (206 B. C.—
A. D. 220) and the centuries immediately before and after that period.
The maximum importance of the silk route, as tapping Central Asia
and bringing together the Hellenic and Chinese worlds, was, however,
during the T’ang period (A. D. 618-907) to which in the main belong
the treasures of the Shdso-in. Nevertheless ‘“Romans’’ and Chinese
never came into actual contact, owing to the skillful policy of the
Parthians, who were determined not to lose their enormous profits as
middlemen in the silk trade. Hudson quotes a passage from the
Han Annals which, as he says, shows considerable insight:

30 In Essays presented to Dr. R. R. Marett on his seventieth birthday, Oxford, 1936.
ROMAN ORIENT AND FAR EAST—SELIGMAN 561

The kings of Ta Ts’in [the Roman Orient] always desired to send embassies to
China, but the Parthians wished to carry on trade with Ta Ts’in in Chinese silks
and therefore cut them off from communication.*!

The T’ang world, though no larger, was far better known and more
easily traveled than that of any earlier period. We must picture
a time when artistic influences from the Hellenic, Indian, and Iranian
worlds were pouring into the T’ang capital, Ch’ang-an, frequented
by members of the most diverse peoples: pedlars and grooms from
Central Asia, ‘‘Greeks,’’ Arabs, Persians, Japanese; Hindoos and
Jungle men from India (the last presumably in charge of elephants).
This list might be extended; it is no effort of the imagination, for at
this period there was little Chinese exclusiveness. The T’ang was
perhaps the age at which plastic art reached its apogee; it was also a
time of great wealth and refinement, in which tomb furniture kept all
its old importance, and since many of the foreigners were servants, or
in one form or another ministered to the luxury of the wealthier
Chinese, there has been opened to us within the last quarter of a
century * a gallery of plastic portraits excellent in fidelity and often
of great beauty, which show us not only the Chinese of that day but
also the many foreigners within their gates. Some even exhibit a
touch of caricature—the Armenoid (so-called Jewish) nose seems to
have been a source of amusement even in T’ang China (pl. 3, fig. 1).

Nor were these foreigners only servants; we know of monks and
warriors, the latter bearing treasure, come from afar to worship the
Buddha. At Chotcho, a Turfan site, there have been discovered
religious frescoes, paintings on stucco covering the walls of cave
temples, of the same class (though differing in style) as those exhibited
in the Oriental Gallery of the British Museum. The most imposing
of those discovered at Chotcho have been published by von Le Coq,®
and among the paintings of monks and adorers of the Buddha are
represented types that clearly do not belong to the Mongol race.
Whether these are in any instance actual portrait studies it is impos-
sible to say; I have the impression that they are best regarded as
generalized abstractions, in which those features considered to be
distinctive of each type are emphasized.

Other evidence of the reciprocal influence of West and East is
provided by the frequency of classical designs on Chinese ceramics
and by the export westward of Chinese porcelain, which for centuries
affected the pot fabrics of the Near East. Western influence is well
illustrated by the vase in the Royal Ontario Museum, Toronto, repro-

31 Hudson, op. cit., p. 84.

32 T’ang grave figures, if known to Chinese dealers before this date, were not regarded as of any worth;
they were not collected by the Chinese and did not reach western collections. It was only when, in the
course of building railways in northern China, grave mounds were disturbed without disaster to the viola-
tors that grave-goods began to be collected and shipped westward in quantity. There are still Chinese

collectors who will have nothing to do with these figures, fearing the results.
33 Chotcho, Berlin, 1913.
562 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938

duced in figure 6. This typically T’ang piece bears in relief a dancing
figure of classical type, as well as foliate ornament obviously derived
from a classical design. Of the export of T’ang porcelain to the
West, abundant evidence is provided by the excavations at Samarra
(some 70 miles above Baghdad), where numerous examples of Chinese
stoneware and porcelain have been excavated under conditions that
leave no doubt as to their date, namely the ninth century and for the
most part the middle of that century. It is worth noting that many
of the sherds of local ware (pottery) imitate imported Chinese pieces,
and—to go beyond our period—that such
imitations continue in the Near East for
several centuries, so that the mounds of
Fostat (Old Cairo) abound not only with
fragments of early Ming celadons but also
with local imitations in faience.

In this connection it is well to em-
phasize how much more the Chinese of
the T’ang period knew of the western
world than the western world knew of
China. Full accounts of Fu Lin (By-
zantium), and of the Arabs and their
Prophet have come down to us in Chinese
writings. It is not surprising that the
Chinese were well informed concerning
Islam, for the Emperor T’ai Tsung took
into his service the son of the last king
of Persia after the Muhammadan con-
quest of that country. There is an ex-
cellent account of Byzantium, obviously
the work of a Chinese traveler. He
even mentions the mechanical devices

FIGURE 6.—T’ it i ° .
figure, Royal Ontario Mise tn Pov! that were so much in favor in the eastern

Roman capital.

Fu Lin is the ancient Ta Tsin. It is situated on the Western Sea. To the
southeast it borders Persia, to the northeast is the territory of the western Turks.
The land is very populous and there are many towns. The walls of the capital
are of dressed stone, and more than 100,000 families reside in the city. There is
a gate 200 feet high, entirely covered with bronze [the Golden Gate]. In the
imperial palace there is a human figure of gold which marks the hours by striking
bells. The buildings are decorated with glass and crystal, gold, ivory and rare
woods. The roofs are made of cement, and are flat. In the heat of summer
machines worked by water power carry up water to the roof, which is used ‘to
refresh the air by falling in showers in front of the windows.

84 Sarre, F., Die Keramik von Samarra, being vol. 2 of Die Ausgrabungen von Samarra, pp. 54-62, 101,
Berlin, 1925, and plates 23-29. Samarra was founded in A. D. 836 and apparently abandoned in 883.
ROMAN ORIENT AND FAR EAST—SELIGMAN 563

Twelve ministers assist the King in the government. When the King leaves
his palace he is attended by a man carrying a bag, into which any person is free to
drop petitions. The men wear their hair cut short and are clothed in embroidered
robes which leave the right arm bare. The women wear their hair in the form of a
crown. The people of Fu Lin esteem wealth, and they are fond of wine and sweet-
meats. On every seventh day [the Christian Sunday] no work is done.

From this country come byssus, coral, asbestos, and many other curious prod-
ucts. They have very skilful conjurors who can spit fire from their mouths, pour
water out of their hands, and drop pearls from their feet. Also they have skilful
physicians who cure certain diseases by extracting worms from the head.*

Let me now return to the caravan route that kept the T’ang capital
in touch with the West. Besides objects of rarity and value’ that
passed in bulk or from hand to hand along the highway between the
Near and Far East, there were those far more important impondera-
bilia—religion and story. It is not my purpose to discuss the former,
but I must mention a piece of painted wood, discovered by Stein at
Dandan Uliq in the Takla Makan desert to the east of Khotan and
now in the British Museum, which shows the astounding mixture in the
religious art of old Khotan. On both sides Bodhisattvas are painted.
That on the obverse is a three-headed deity in full Indian style; the
figure on the reverse (pl. 3, fig. 2) affords the most striking contrast,
presenting, in spite of its four arms, secular Persian treatment in
style and accessories.

The clue to the significance of these two paintings was discovered
by Stein many years later when examining the mural paintings of a
ruin in southeastern Persia, dating to about the seventh century
A. D. The Persian bodhisattva represents Rustam, the hero of the
Persian national epic, and the three-headed figure is a non-Persian
rendering of one of the demonic adversaries conquered by Rustam and
forced into submission to his king. Here, then, is a striking absorp-
tion of Iranian iconography into the Buddhism of the Far East.

Passing to story, Laufer has shown that the legend of the Diamond
Valley reached China from the west. It must be remembered that in
the earlier periods the number of gem-stones known to the Chinese
was exceedingly limited, while the cut jewel with its qualities of luster
and sparkle did not yet exist, so that the beautiful stones which
reached the Far East in small quantities from the Hellenistic Roman
Orient must have created a profound impression. Laufer points out
that the oldest version of the western legend is contained in the
writings of Epiphanius, Bishop of Constantia in Cyprus (c. 315-403):

In his discourse on the 12 jewels forming the breastplate of the High Priest of

Jerusalem, the following tale is narrated of the hyacinth. The theater of action
is a deep valley in a desert of great Scythia, entirely surrounded by rocky moun-

35 Fitzgerald, op. cit., pp. 323-4. To a question as to how closely this account could be dated, Mr. Fitz-
gerald expressed the opinion that, while accurate dating was impossible, it could probably be attributed
to the seventh or eighth century.

%6 Stein, On Central Asian Tracks, pp. 64-65, 1933.

114728—39 37

564 § ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938

tains rising straight like walls; so that from their summits the bottom of the val-
ley is not visible, but only a sullen mist-like chaos. The men despatched there in
search of those stones by the kings, who reside in the neighborhood, slay sheep,
strip them of their skins, and fling them from the rocks into the immense chaos of
the valley. The stones then adhere to the flesh of the sheep. The eagles that
loiter on the cliffs above scent the flesh, pounce down upon it in the valley, carry
the carcasses off to devour them, and thus the stones remain on the top of the
mountains. The convicts condemned to gather the stones go to the spots where
the flesh of the sheep has been carried away by the eagles, find and take the
stones.*7

The Chinese text contained in the Liang ssi kung chi (Memoirs of
the four Worthies of the Liang dynasty) gives the following account:

In the period T’ien-kien (502-520) of the Liang dynasty, Prince Kie of Shu
(Sze-ch’uan) visited the Emperor Wu, when he told his story: “‘In the west,
arriving at the Mediterranean, there is in the sea an island of 200 square miles
(li). On this island is a large forest abundant in trees with precious stones, and
inhabited by over 10,000 families. * * * In a northwesterly direction from
the island is a ravine hollowed out like a bowl, more than a thousand feet deep.
They throw fiesh into this valley. Birds take it up in their beaks, whereupon
they drop the precious stones.’’ 38

This account, for all its brevity, is immediately intelligible in the
light of the western legend, with which it coincides in its essentials—
the deep valley into which raw flesh is thrown as bait for the birds,
who with it carry the stones into accessible positions. Laufer’s con-
clusions are then justified, the Liang version is directly traceable to
that of Epiphanius, and was transmitted to China from Fu-lin, part
of the Roman Empire.

So, too, Hellenistic and Chinese folklore mingle in the ideas trans-
mitted from west to east, distorted, and reflected back again, con-
cerning asbestos and the salamander. Strabo and Dioscorides both
knew the plain facts about asbestos, its mineral origin and its fire-re-
sisting property; so did the Chinese of Han times. It is only later
that western beliefs concerning the salamander and the phoenix being
born of fire or uninjured by fire are confused with asbestos cloth, the
latter being further confounded with the real bark cloth of Malaya,
which the Chinese knew from their travels in Java and Cambodia, so
that finally the incombustible cloth really obtained from the west is
either the plumage or pelt of western fire-loving mythical birds or
beasts. | ;

These examples show the diffusion and penetrative power—if I
may use the phrase—of ideas and beliefs of a curious and recondite
character. The examples I have given have nothing to do with the
fundamental needs or desires of mankind, though no doubt the won-

37 Laufer, Berthold, The diamond, a study in Chinese and Hellenistic folk-lore, Field Museum of Natural
History, Publication 184, vol. 15, No. 1, p. 9, Chicago, 1915.

38 Laufer, op. cit., pp. 6-7.
#9 Laufer, op. cit., p. 10.
ROMAN ORIENT AND FAR EAST—SELIGMAN 565

ders of far off lands have always had a strong appeal. How much
stronger will this appeal be when the ideas transmitted have to do
with the most deep-seated of all longings, the defeat of old age and
death.

We may, I think, regard it as a priori unlikely that the Elixir Vitae
was of Near Eastern origin, since there is no mention of anything of
the sort in the innumerable Egyptian texts that have come down to
us; nor is any such substance recorded in the cuneiform texts of the
Sumerians or Assyrians.*® On the other hand, there is the general
belief that alchemy (the transmutation of metals) arose among
Alexandrine Greeks in the early centuries of our era, later reaching
central Europe via the Arabs. In Alexandria transmutation had a
philosophical basis; moreover the earliest Greek alchemical writings
abound in references to Near Eastern authorities and traditions,“ but
although the Leyden papyrus of the end of the third century, from
Thebes, indicates how jewellers may imitate gold and silver, there is
no reference to the Elixir, and in the West it was only later that the
substance for transmuting metals was considered to have the property
of prolonging life indefinitely.

The earliest alchemical writers who have left literary remains lived
at a period extending from the third to the fifth centuries,” when
Alexandria was still a great commercial metropolis. A large portion
of the Chinese trade reached Alexandria; and just as legends concern-
ing the Valley of Diamonds and asbestos were transmitted to the Far
East, so Far Eastern ideas concerning the Elixir might well be dis-
cussed in this western city of philosophers. In China such ideas were
already well developed centuries before the beginning of the Christian
era, for Ch’in Shih Huang Ti (249-210 B. C.), the “First Emperor”
is recorded as having occupied much of his later life in the search for
immortality, to be gained by means of a magic drug believed to exist
in the three Isles of the Immortals in the Eastern Sea. These islands,
P’éng-lai and its fellows, were not so very remote from the home of
mankind, and they had been seen by many though it was impossible
toland. Having come under the influence of two celebrated magicians
the Emperor organized an elaborate expedition in search of the islands.
The expedition did not return, but this failure did not daunt the Em-
peror, and to the end of his days he sought to discover some means of
contact with the immortals and to gain access to their elixir.

It should be pointed out that long before this, jade had been regarded
as prolonging life and preserving the tissues from corruption—as indi-

40 The large collection of magical texts, coming down to Coptic times, published by Francois Lexa under
the title La Magie dans l’Egypte antique, Paris, 1925, contains no text referring either to the Elixir or to
the transmutation of metals. With regard to Mesopotamia, my statement is made on the authority of
Dr. Campbell Thompson.

41 Encyclopaedia Britannica, 14th ed., 1929, s. v. ALCHEMY.
42 Stillman, John M., The story of early chemistry, p. 150, New York, 1924.
566 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938

cated by its use in the burials of the great.* So too, gold, and espe-
cially gold obtained by transmutation, could be used to assure im-
mortality:

[The wizard Li] Shao-chiin said to the Emperor [Wu Ti of Han]: ‘‘Sacrifice to
the stove [tsao] and you will be able to summon ‘things’ [7. e., spirits]. Summon
spirits and you will be able to change cinnabar powder into yellow gold. With
this yellow gold you may make vessels to eat and drink out of. You will then
increase your span of life. Having increased your span of life, you will be able
to see the hsien of P’éng-lai that is in the midst of the sea. Then you may perform
the sacrifices feng and shan and escape death’’.* #4

The Elixir Vitae is also mentioned in another important work, the
Ts’an T’ung Ch’i, written under the pseudonym Wei Po-yang in the
second century A. D. Waley thinks it likely that the text may have
been doctored to give an alchemical interest later, i. e., in the fourth
century. This view does not imply any considerable rearrangement,
for only one of the 90 sections into which the text is arranged deals
specifically with the Elixir, and this in the most definite manner:

Gold by nature does not rot or decay;

Therefore it is of all things most precious.

When the artist fi. e., alchemist] includes it in his diet
The duration of his life becomes everlasting

* * *# » * * *

When the golden powder enters the five entrails,

A fog is dispelled, like rain-clouds scattered by wind.
Fragrant exhalations pervade the four limbs;

The countenance beams with well-being and joy.
Hairs that were white all turn to black;

Teeth that had fallen grow in their former place.
The old dotard is again a lusty youth;

The decripit crone is again a young girl.‘

We cannot say how early the belief in the life-giving virtue of gold
may have arisen; the first text given above, though attributed to the
first century B. C., may be a hundred years or more later,“ but it is
obvious that the belief must have existed at an earlier date than the
text. Linking this to what we know of the Elixir in the West, it seems
reasonable to infer that the belief originated in China,” for these texts

43 Space is lacking to describe the virtues of jade: though the product of the earth, it is at the same time the
essence of Heaven, perfected under high spiritual influence (Laufer, Jade, p. 148, 1912). Appropriate em-
blems of jade were placed upon or within the orifices of the body, e. g., the cicada in the mouth, and cere-
monial objects of jade were placed within the coffin in contact with the body. Naturally it was only the
rich whose grave-furnishings were of jade; I have already alluded to the glass pi (p. 558) of the less well-to-do.

44 Waley, A., Notes on Chinese alchemy, Bull. School of Oriental Studies, vol. 6, p. 2, 1930-2. Chinese
words have been omitted and only their transliteration given.

45 Waley, op. cit., p. 11. It might have been expected that jade rather than gold would have been cited
in the texts quoted. Mr. Waley has suggested to me that the admiration for gold was adopted from the
northern nomads at the time when their costume and military tactics were taken over by the Chinese.

46 Waley, op. cit., p. 3.

47 Tn arguing that the Elixir Vitae as known to the western world since the early centuries of our era origi-
nated in China, I do not ignore the view put forward by the late Prof. Sir Grafton Elliot Smith and Dr. W.
J. Perry that all “life givers” had their origin in the beliefs of Ancient Egypt, which spread across Eurasia
at a comparatively early date. I would, however, point out that even if this view be held the diffusion
westwards of a conception which was flourishing in the Far East in the latter half of the first millennium
B. O.*can still be accepted.
ROMAN ORIENT AND FAR EAST—-SELIGMAN 567

that I have cited, coupled with what we know of the accredited proper-
ties of jade, seem to prove the existence of a strongly held belief in the
Elixir Vitae in the Far East at a time when there is no evidence for
the existence of this belief in Europe. Moreover it seems probable
that more evidence in favor of this view might be derived from a new
examination of Chinese sources, for Laufer’s great work on jade was
published in 1912.

The last matters to which I shall refer are those two great gifts of
China to the West, paper and printing, the latter for practical purposes
impossible without the former. Up to the end of the Chou dynasty
writing was done with a bamboo pen upon slips of bamboo or wood.
Then came the writing brush of hair. This is the traditional Chinese
belief, but the modern view as set forth by Yetts is that brush cal-
ligraphy existed in the Shang-Yin period, than which we have no
earlier relics. Referring to two Shang-Yin inscriptions, which he
reproduces, he denies that the ‘spontaneity and modulation of their
line’ makes possible any other agency. Certain pictograms in the
archaic script are adduced, which clearly represent a hand holding a
brush. These come from a Honan bone and a Shang-Yin bronze.*
Moreover, recent excavations near An-yang have brought to light
three fragments of bone, used by Shang-Yin diviners, on which there
are remains of writing done with ink and brush.® Paper, or near-
paper, was invented about the end of the first century A. D., tradi-
tionally in the year 105. Rag paper dating from the middle of the
second century was discovered by Stein at Tun Huang in the form of
eight letters on paper (together with letters on silk and wood). Dis-
coveries at Turfan date to the end of the fourth century. These,
together with later documents from Turkestan, show that the paper
was manufactured from both raw fiber and worked-up material, e. g.,
the remains of old textiles and fishing nets, a discovery indicating that
it was not the Muslims of Samarkand who, as commonly held, origi-
nated rag paper:

Rag paper, supposed till 1885 to have been invented in Europe in the fifteenth
century, supposed till 1911 to have been invented by the Arabs of Samarkand in
the eighth century, was carried back to the Chinese of the second century, and the
Chinese record, stating that rag paper was invented in China at the beginning of
the second century, was confirmed.”

Gradually the Chinese improved the composition and face of their
papers, so that it was a perfected invention that passed from the
Chinese to the Arabic world. Thence it reached Baghdad in the

48 The George Eumorfopoulos Collection, Catalogue of the Chinese and Corean Bronzes, etc., vol. 1, see
especially pp. 15-17, London, 1929.

49 Tung Tso-pin in Studies presented to T's’ai Yiian P’ei on his Sixty-fifth Birthday, pp. 417, 418, fig. 7,
Pei-p’ing, 1933.

8 Carter, Thomas Francis, The invention of printing in China and its spread westward, p. 5, New York,

1931. To this work I gratefully acknowledge my indebtedness for this short account of early paper and
printing.
568 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938

eighth century, Egypt soon after, whence via Morocco (c. 1100) to
Spain, and so to Central Europe, having also reached Italy via Libya
and Sicily.

Without considering the part that seal-stones and rubbings from
graved stones (lithography in its simplest form) may have played in
the evolution of printing, let me say that there may be some doubt as
to the accuracy of a reference to printing in China at the end of the sixth
century, and emphasize the fact that the earliest datable block-print
extant is of A. D. 770 and comes from Japan. Block-printing must,
however, have been practised in China sufficiently long before this for
it to have attained such considerable development in Japan, since the
relics of A. D. 770 (for a number have been preserved) are of the series
of one million charms ordered by the Empress Shotoku. Examples of
these preserved in the Horiuji monastery at Nara in Japan, in the
British Museum, and in the museum at Leipzig, show that the strips of
paper used are about 18 inches long by 2 wide, each bearing 30 columns
of 5 characters each.

Japan produced no books at this time, or if she did they have not
come down to us. The earliest printed book (i. e., scroll) that can be
dated with certainty is Chinese and was produced in May 868—no
primitive piece of printing like the Japanese charms but a superb
version of one of the holiest of Buddhist texts, the Diamond Sutra,
though there is reason to believe that a copy of the Kuan Yin Sutra
in the British Museum may be even earlier, of 8th century date
(pl. 4).

The T’ang dynasty came to its end within a hundred years of the
printing of the Diamond Sutra, and it is not my purpose to attempt to
carry my sketch of the contacts of West and East beyond the years of
that dynasty. A kindly critic has suggested that I should conclude
with a summary. This seems unnecessary, for I have done little
more than touch on each of the subjects that I have put before you.
I may, however, express the opinion that early contacts between
Kurope and the Far East will, as knowledge advances, prove to have
been far more numerous than has hitherto been generally accepted.

51 Carter op. cit., p. 36.
Smithsonian Report, 1938.—Seligman PLATE 1

HUNTER SILK, HORIUJI MONASTERY, NARA.
Smithsonian Report, 1938.—Seligman PLATE 2

1. GLASS BOWL, SILLA ROYAL TOMBS, KOREA.

2. GLASS BOWL FROM HONAN, NORTHERN CHINA.
“WnhasnlW
HSILIYG ‘(NVLOHM LNAIONY ‘NISZLS) WALLVS
-IHGO@G ONILNASSYdsyY TWNVd NS3GOOM GALNIVd °2 “‘Goidad ONV,.L ‘FYNSI4 GIONAWYY ‘1

€ ALV1d uPUIsi[as—'g¢6| ‘J40dey UeIUOSsYqILUG
“WOASNW HSILIYG “T108SDS VULNS GNOWVIG AO LYvd ‘898 GAaLvVq MD071g NAGOOM WOY4 LNIY¥d

vpalvid ueUSI[aG—"g¢E6| ‘Oday ueruosyjIWIG

AN ANCIENT CHINESE CAPITAL
EARTHWORKS AT OLD CH‘ANG-AN!

By Cart Wuitine BisHor
Freer Gallery of Art, Washington

[With four plates]

Not least in interest among subjects of archeological study is that
which has to do with the types of fortification constructed by organized
communities in the past. These, once the habit of town-dwelling had
become fixed, seem to have tended to fall into two major classes: the
arx, acropolis, or citadel, one of whose functions it was to provide
a temporary refuge in emergency; and the enceinte or city-wall proper,
designed to afford permanent protection to the group living within it.
Sometimes the two forms occur in combination; more often, singly.

The first type we frequently, though by no means always, find situ-
ated on a height; the acropolis of Athens and the Capitoline Hill at
Rome are familiar examples. The second class, on the other hand,
seems to have developed more especially in those alluvial plains on
which sprang up the great river-valley civilizations of the ancient world.
To it belong the tremendous earthworks constructed slightly over
2,000 years ago about the city of Ch‘ang-an (meaning ‘‘Long Peace”’;
possibly Ptolemy’s ‘Sera Metropolis” ?), the capital of the then
recently established Chinese empire.

It was in 221 B. C.—the year, it will be recalled, when the Car-
thaginian troops in Spain proclaimed Hannibal their commander-in-
chief—that at the opposite end of the Old World the great conqueror
Ch‘in Shih Huang-ti ® set up, on the ruins of a very ancient and sepa-
ratist Chinese feudalism, a centralized and bureaucratic empire which
in many details of its organization strikingly recalls the one established
some three centuries earlier in western Asia by Darius the Great.

1 The following account contains material included in a report, now in course of preparation, dealing with
the investigations conducted in China during the period 1923-1934 by the Freer Gallery of Art, Washing-
ton, D. C. Reprinted by permission from Antiquity, vol. 12, No. 45, March 1938.

3 ne a identification, see e. g., Grousset, René, Histoire de l’Extréme-Orient, vol. 1, p. 242 and note 5,

3 This name, or rather title, means literally “First Emperor of the Ch‘in (Dynasty)’’; he is mentioned, in
another connection, in Antiquity, vol. 11, p. 27, March 1937.

569
570 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938

Shih Huang-ti’s dynasty, the Ch‘in ‘ (or Ts‘in, as the name is some-
times spelled in English), fell a very few years after his death. There
ensued a brief period of civil war and general turmoil. Out of this
there emerged as victor a low-born but nevertheless very able adven-
turer who thereupon founded the Former or Western Han Dynasty
(206 B. C-A. D. 7)... This was the man usually known in later
history as Han Kao-tzii (his posthumous title); he played a part com-
parable to that of Octavius not quite two centures later in putting an
end to a period of civil strife and setting up a stable government. He
at first thought of fixing the capital of his newly won dominions a
short distance south of the Yellow: River, in what is today the province
of Honan. Ultimately, however, he established his permanent official
residence some 200 miles farther to the west, in central Shensi province.
The city which he thus founded soon became one of the greatest of
its day, anywhere in the world. Ch‘ang-an during the period of its
prosperity may have been rivalled in population and perhaps in extent
by certain cities of the Near East and of northern India; but. Europe
certainly had nothing as yet even remotely comparable to it.

Then as always, however, Chinese architecture was essentially one
of wood and terre pisé. Hence the ancient capital of the Hans has left
us, above ground at least, but few remains of itself. Of these the most
notable are portions of its great rampart of solidly tamped earth, and
what is said to have been the foundation-mound of the principal build-
ing in the imperial palace-enclosure—the celebrated Wei Yang Kung,
of whose almost fabulous splendor and magnificence many tales are
told.

The site of the ancient city lies 4 or 5 miles northwest of Hsi-an Fu
(sometimes spelled “‘Sianfu” in English), the capital of the province
of Shensi, and a little south of the historic Wei, a western affluent of
the Yellow River. The country hereabout is an intensively cultivated
alluvial plain which rises into hills some distance to the south.

The morning was misty, the visibility poor; but as we approached
the site we began to see ahead of us a lofty and now shapeless mound,
obviously artificial in origin. This stood, we found, at the south-
eastern corner of the ancient city. Closer examination showed that it
was composed of successive layers of terre pisé, rammed very hard
and averaging about 4 inches in thickness.®

‘ From this word almost certainly came our name “‘China.”’ Those who deny this (usually on the ground
that the name “China” antedates the founding of the Oh‘in empire) forget that the state of Ch‘in was estab-
lished several centuries earlier, andlong before Shih Huang-ti’s time had already annexed theeastern termini
of both the great land-routes linking the Far East with the Occident, the one by way of Central Asia, the
other through Farther India.

5’ The Han Dynasty, it should be remarked, was the first Chinese ruling house to spring from the ranks
of the common people. The founders of all the earlier ones had belonged to the turbulent, hard-drinking,
chariot-fighting feudal nobility, the possessors of the Chinese Bronze Age civilization (in regard to the latter
point ef. Antiquity, vol. 7, p. 404, December 1933).

6 Recent excavations at the two opposite ends of the Asiatic continent have shown that the use of terre

pisé construction dates back, in China at least to the second millenium B, O. and in the Near East con-
siderably earlier still.
AN ANCIENT CHINESE CAPITAL—BISHOP 571

The present height of the mound we estimated at around 50 feet.
That it had once been surmounted by a large building of some sort,
presumably a wooden castle, was indicated by the occurrence, both
on its sides and in the loose earth at its foot, of large gray unglazed
roofing-tiles of the kind used in China during the Han period. Lying
all about was much broken pottery, in part likewise of Han date. On
top of the mound was a ruinous square beacon-tower of gray burnt
brick; this structure, of a type still to be seen all over northern China
and formerly used in the transmission of smoke or fire signals, was
probably not over 3 or 4 centuries old. From it we could see, stretch-
ing away to north and to west, the remains of the ancient city’s
great ramparts of earth. These, though in some places still quite well
preserved, were for the most part much eroded, terraced for cultiva-
tion, and here and there almost completely dug away.’ Their entire
perimeter we could not attempt to trace, for want of time. Old
Chinese maps suggest, however, that their circuit is somewhere around
15 or 16 miles; they indicate too that the old city was roughly quad-
rangular in plan.

Part at least of the material composing these ramparts was pretty
surely taken from what was now a dry moat or ditch which we saw
just outside them. This we found, at the point where we measured
it, 160 feet wide, with a present average depth, even though now
much silted up, of nearly 10 feet. If it had ever served as a wet
moat, the water to fill it must have come from a stream, shown on
old Chinese maps but now no longer in evidence, which seems to have
flowed into it near the southwestern corner of the city.

Immediately west of the great corner mound just mentioned, there
was in the south wall of the ancient city a wide opening through which
ascended (see post) the cart road by which we had come out from
Hsi-an Fu. This gap provided us with an excellent cross-section of
the rampart as well as a convenient opportunity for measuring
its profile.

It proved to have been constructed throughout of layers of terre pisé
identical with those already mentioned, and was quite without any-
thing in the way of a revetment. Closely similar in their method of
construction, except that they are usually provided with outer and
sometimes also inner facings of large gray burnt brick laid in lime
plaster, are the walls of many existing Chinese cities (pls. 1, 2).
Occasionally, as for instance in the “Red Basin” country of the
western province of Szechuan, where an easily worked red sandstone
is readily procurable, these revetments are of dressed stone laid in
regular courses of equal thickness, recalling the opus isodomum of

7 Such accumulations of earth, on account of their high ammonia content, are much used by the northern

Chinese peasantry as fertilizer. Analogous practices are found elsewhere, as for example in the terremare
of north Italy and the terpen of west Friesland.
572 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938

Vitruvius. In general, however, the walls of Chinese cities have
always been of earth, in later centuries generally, though not always,
faced with brick. Significant of this is the fact that the ideograph
for ‘‘city-wall’ ® has as its determinative or “‘radical’”’ the character
for ‘“earth.”” The original Great Wall of China, constructed a few
years prior to the founding of Ch‘ang-an and just at the time of the
Second Punic War, was likewise of earth, as indeed are long portions
of it still (ef. pl. 3).

The ancient rampart which we were studying rested directly upon
the original surface of the soil, without the interposition of a stone
plinth or a damp-course of any kind. Its thickness at the base we
found to be 350 feet. Protruding from the western side of the afore-
mentioned gap, near the top of the wall, were remains of what had
evidently been a drainage-system of gray unglazed tile; for the region,
though in general comparatively dry, experiences torrential summer
rains. At the foot of the rampart’s outer face, still quite steep
(owing to the durability of the terre pisé) even after the lapse of 20
centuries, we found traces of a narrow berm (see fig. 1, drawing of

PARAPET
A
a

t

t

1

'
{he

= eee oer e---
OF WALL

SCARE
2s 8ERM
>, OUTER FACE
TERREPLEIN
INNER FACE
OF WALL

R
MOAT

CITY ENCLOSURE

H wt =
«3 ret WG WS ip!
] iio GMVVZJJIJ$YH YH

4/60 feet 39} $$ $$$ $$ 350 Feet ———_____—_

FIGURE 1.—Drawing of profile of rampart, old Ch‘ang-an; suggested restoration in broken lines.

cross-section of rampart), now almost worn away. It may originally
have been 15 feet wide, possibly even less; in any case barely enough,
it seemed, to withstand the thrust of the vast mass of rammed earth
above and behind it.

The vertical height of the outer face, above the berm, we found to
average 25 feet in its present state. We noticed particularly that
there were in the line of the wall none of those rectangular projections
or salients, often loosely called ‘‘bastions,’’ seen in many of the
Chinese city walls built during more recent centuries (see pl. 4). On
the contrary, at old Ch‘ang-an we saw only the long straight curtain-
wall, with no provision, save possibly at the city gates (see post), for
the directing of a flank fire against bodies of assailants.

Extending back from the brink of the outer face of the rampart
were the remains of a platform or parapet of pisé, once no doubt level
but now much cut up by erosion and cultivation. This was 42 feet
across at the widest of several points where we measured it; while
in places its now very irregular inner edge rose as much as 10 feet above

8 The same character, pronounced ch‘éng, also means “‘city;’’ for according to the traditional Chinese
way of thinking, the wall is what makes the city.
AN ANCIENT CHINESE CAPITAL-——BISHOP 573

the terreplein behind it. The latter sloped gradually and on the
whole evenly downward to the general level of the area inside the
walls; there was no sudden change of profile to indicate where the
terreplein had terminated and the inner face of the rampart had
begun (ef. fig. 1). That this did not represent the original condition,
however, appeared likely, for the following reasons.

We found, in the first place, that this long interior slope was for
the most part covered with uncompacted earth, in places to a depth
of 4 or 5 feet and obviously washed down from the parapet above.
Secondly, at certain points beneath this layer were to be seen portions
of what appeared to be a continuous stratum containing Han roofing-
tiles, bricks, and potsherds and resting directly upon the tamped earth
of the original agger. These facts suggested, first, that the top of the
parapet had once been somewhat more than 10 feet higher (see ante)
than the terreplein; and, second, that on the latter had once stood
buildings, erected presumably on a level, not a sloping, surface. Thus
we might reasonably suppose that the rampart as originally constucted
had had, in addition to a parapet, a true terreplein and a distinct inner
face—the latter doubtless much lower than the outer one and now
completely masked by detritus washed down from above.

As already stated, the cart road from Hsi-an Fu entered the ancient
city enclosure through a wide gap at the eastern end of the southern
wall. This opening, we felt certain for several reasons, indicated the
spot where once had stood a city-gate. None of the old Chinese maps
of Ch‘ang-an appears to show a gate at this spot; nor does it seem
very probable that one should have been placed there; for gates do not
ordinarily occur at the corners of Chinese city walls. Possibly the
gap in question may have been cut through the rampart at some time
subsequent to the original building of the wall.

Be that as it may, the track here mounted quite steeply and once
inside the enceinte turned abruptly to the left or west. This change
in direction brought it parallel to a low rise in the ground directly
across the opening and a short distance inside or north of it. Whether
this rise represented what had originally been an earthen wall forming
part of the defences of the gate, we were unable to determine by inspec-
tion alone. But had there been such a wall, its effect would have been
to compel an attacking force, once it had broken through the gate, to
turn sharply to the left and thus expose its right or unshielded side to
an enfilading fire from the defenders.°

For some 400 yards or so to the west of the above gap we found the
gigantic agger displaying in general much the same profile and dimen-
sions as those just described. Then came a second wide opening,

9 Shields formed part of the equipment of the Chinese warriors of the time, as shown, for example, on the

famous Han “‘reliefs’’ (in reality incised drawings on stone slabs) from the province of Shantung and by
numerous passages in the surviving historical records.
574 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938

where, we felt sure, there had formerly stood another gate. Flanking
this on either side, on top of the rampart were the badly eroded
stumps of two mounds. On these, it appeared likely, had once stood
twin gate towers, doubtless of wood; for in the earth about their bases
we found embedded numbers of large roofing tiles of the kind already
mentioned. Such gate towers seem sometimes at least to have been
joined by a covered gallery of wood extending from side to side above
the top of the gate proper.

The Chinese gate tower of later centuries, as is well known, has
been a single structure built directly over the opening in the city wall,
usually in two or three stories, with the upturned roof corners so
familiar on Chinese buildings.!® What appears to have been the older
type, with twin towers flanking the gateway, is still, however, to be
seen in a few provincial towns.

A road passed through this second gap also. Upon entering the
city it turned, like the other, at a right angle toward the west. Here,
too, this abrupt change in direction seemed to have been determined
by a transverse rise in the ground just inside the opening.

Extending from this second gap directly across the moat to the
counterscarp we found what seemed once to have been a causeway,
now much broken down. This, as far as we could tell, had not been
constructed of terre pisé, but had been merely a strip of the original
soil, left untouched when the moat was dug; it thus recalled in a way
the ‘interrupted ditches’ found at certain prehistoric sites in the
Occident. Over its remains passed the road mentioned in the pre-
ceding paragraph. We had noticed nothing suggesting the former
existence of a similar causeway at the first gap—perhaps an additional
indication that the opening there was made at some later period.

From this point we traced the rampart for some distance farther
to the west, and found it growing more and more eroded and worn
away, until at length it practically disappeared save for a few un-
certain remains. Others, apparently better preserved, we could see
far away across the river-plain; but these we had not the time to visit.

Before we leave our discussion of these earthworks, it will perhaps
be of interest to touch briefly on the probable reason for their enormous
and seemingly unnecessary thickness. For the tremendous additional
labor and expense thus incurred can only have been undertaken for
the sake of providing against some very real and compelling danger.

During the middle of the first millennium B. C. the arts of war and
notably of siege-craft made great progress in China. Particularly was
this true in regard to the use of mines. These were employed, then
as later, for two purposes: the one, to gain direct access to the interiors
of beleaguered towns; the other, to overthrow their ramparts and thus

10 These upward-curving roof corners were a post-Han development in Chinese architecture. Until long
after the beginning of the,Christian era, Chinese roofs had straight lines.
AN ANCIENT CHINESE CAPITAL—BISHOP 575

effect a practicable breach for a storming party. The latter aim the
Chinese military engineers of that day did not achieve with the aid
of explosives, then still unknown in China as elsewhere. Instead,
they tunneled beneath the earthen city walls and there excavated a
large chamber whose ceiling they supported by means of stout tim-
bering; this they then set on fire, thus causing it to give way and
allow the section of rampart immediately above it to drop into the
cavity.

The earliest mention in Chinese literature of this proceeding, so far
as I know, dates back to around the beginning of the fourth century
B. C.4 and the passage would imply that it had already then been
known in China for some time, perhaps even as much as a century
or two, although scarcely more than that. For prior to around the
middle of the first millennium B. C. the methods employed by the
Chinese in the capture of walled towns had been chiefly those of
surprise, escalade, or blockade. As in the Occident (e. g., at Croton
in 510 B. C. and at Mantinea in 385 B. C.), so in China also, rivers
were sometimes diverted against city walls and made to undermine
them. It seems to have been slightly later (i. e., after the middle of
the same millenium) that in both China and the West there came
into use the above-described method of breaching walls by mining.
It was employed in the latter region, for instance, at the siege of
Megalopolis by Polyperchon ” in 318 B. C. and at that of Abydos
by Philip V of Macedon in 200 B. C.

It is only fair to say, however, that the best military opinion in

ancient China, such as that of Sun Tzii,” was in general opposed to
the investment of fortified places, preferring rather to bring about
their surrender by overcoming the enemy’s forces in the field.
In any event, against a rampart so massive and a moat so wide
and deep as those which we saw at old Ch‘ang-an, even the most
effective methods of siege-craft known to the ancient Chinese must
have been well-nigh powerless. The capital of the Hans, though
seated in a wide plain and so owing nothing of its strength to natural
position, must have been as nearly impregnable to direct assault as
was ancient Babylon.

The space inside the ramparts was, we found, a slightly undulating
plain dotted with the mud hamlets of the local peasantry and with
clusters of small modern grave mounds shaded by trees; but for by
far the greater part under intensive cultivation. As we might expect
in a city occupied for so long a period (in all about 200 years) as was
old Ch‘ang-an, the present surface of the site, within the walls, was

11 Mo-tzu, chap. 14, par. 62.
12 Formerly miscalled ‘‘Polysperchon.”

18 Also called Sun Wu; fl. 4th century B. C. On his writings see Giles, Lionel, Sun Tzii on the art of war
(trans. from the Chinese, with notes), London, 1910.
576 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938

on the whole distinctly higher by several feet than was the surround-
ing country. Accumulations of downwash from the inner slopes of
the earthen walls have no doubt been responsible for some of this
rise in level; but much—probably most—of it was certainly the direct
result of long continued human occupation. Similarly, the level of
the area inside the walls of Peking, inhabited continuously for a period
roughly three times as long as was Old Ch‘ang-an, is today in many
places from 20 to 30 feet higher than it was originally.

Immediately west of the city proper, and separated from it by the
much eroded remains of two parallel earthen walls of no great size
which ran north and south about a hundred feet apart, we came upon
the old palace-enclosure of the Han emperors. ‘The surface here also
was somewhat undulating in character. Some of the slight irregular-
ities in level made us wonder whether they might not conceal the

Tie Ya
SS —— Sy
SS DOO

KKK KKK CKKKEN

‘Wp fit Mel tel th sbi tlt

SSO
y
SASSY

PSSsss

A if
ANS a Y,<$ $$} 120 lls, —_——_——95 as. errs) 6.

a

2
'
‘
'
'
‘
1
1
'
1
1
'
'
'
1
'
'
'
'
’
1
'
1
'
t
1
'
4
\
.
‘
1
'
‘
'
t
1
'
1
'
'
‘
‘
1
1
‘
,
'
'
'
'
1
>

WIGSSSSY
SURISG Ry

1 eee
LOLA UT TOOT DADA

4 QOLLL ODOT ETT
LTTE OL TLD TY
79 Yas.

COLA IALIIDI IZ IID ATOLL ALDI TTDI OMNIA TOT,
Deoraeasmman re CEL Mee

450 Yds.

WIRD
kc

FIGURE 2.—Plan and elevation of Wei Yang Kung Palace foundation-mound, Old Ch‘ang-an.

remains of ancient buildings; for the records speak of a number of
palaces. The ground here, however, just as in the city proper, had
been so long and so continuously under the plow that all surface indi-
cations had disappeared, except at one point.

Here, some hundreds of yards ahead of us, a little to the south of
west, we saw a long mound in several superimposed stages, with its
major axis extending due north and south and perhaps coinciding with
that of the palace-city itself. This mound, our Chinese companions
told us, had been the foundation platform of the principal edifice in
the old palace complex, the celebrated Wei Yang Kung already men-
tioned (for its plan and elevation see fig. 2).

We found the ground-plan of this interesting construction that of
a long rectangle, with corners surprisingly well defined considering
its age. The total length was 450 yards, its breadth 145 yards, and it
AN ANCIENT CHINESE CAPITAL—BISHOP 577

was built in five stages, of which the highest, near the northern end,
rose some 50 feet above the surrounding fields. It had been con-
structed of successive layers of terre pisé like those forming the ram-
part that we had just been examining, and was now thinly covered
with grass save for patches of cultivation here and there, and for a
few great stones of which we shall speak in a moment.

Exactly at the center of the southern end of the rectangle we found
traces of an approach or gradual ascent of some kind, apparently a
ramp (marked A on the accompanying plan, fig. 2), about 100 feet in
width east by west. It extended north, sloping gently upward the
while, for some 70 feet, to the level of the top of the lowest terrace
(B on the plan). The surface of the latter, aside from the ramp, was
practically level and extended for 156 yards until it came to the second
stage (C), marked by a sharp rise or step of 2 feet. From this point
north, a slight upward slope brought us to another abrupt rise of 2 feet
marking the beginning of the third terrace (D). The ground thence
continued rising gently until, 95 yards still farther north, it reached the
edge of the fourth stage (KE). This was a steep earthen bank some
10 feet high; from its southern face there projected a somewhat lower
platform of earth (F), now much eroded but apparently once rec-
tangular in form; its ends were in exact alignment with the borders of
the (unpaved) avenue of approach, which we had been able to trace,
intermittently, up to this point.

The mound culminated in a long, narrow terrace (G) about 12
yards wide north and south and extending east by west for some 65
yards; its fairly level top stood about 6 feet higher than the preceding
stage. Here, at the apex of the mound, was a commemorative stela
encased in brickwork (H), erected in the year 1695 at the behest of
the great Manchu emperor commonly called by Europeans K‘ang-hsi.

The rearward or northern end of the mound descended to the level
of the fields about it in a series of unequal and now much eroded
stages—the borders of the successive terraces just described. These,
however, projected far less beyond one another here than they did on
the south; the total distance from the center of the uppermost stage
to the northern edge of the lowest amounted only to some 50 yards, as
against about 400 yards in the opposite direction.

Scattered here and there over the surface of the great rectangle
were several large water-worn boulders, already mentioned (these I
have not indicated on the plan (fig. 2) as we were too straitened for
time to determine their positions even approximately). These were
not grouped or arranged in any regular order. They rested directly
on the tamped earth of the mound at varying heights above ground-
level, and could only have reached their present position through
human agency. According to the surmise of our Chinese companions,
they may have been ornaments in some garden or pleasance within the
578 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938

ancient palace. It seemed clear at all events that they had not ful-
filled any structural purpose.

The Wei Yang Kung mound as we saw it, even in its present state
of nakedness and desolation, possessed a certain aspect of dignity and
proportion and balance. Rising out of a level plain, and covered as it
was during Han times by stately buildings (probably with painted or
lacquered columns and brightly colored roofs of tile), it must have
presented a most inspiring spectacle to all who beheld it—to the native
subjects of the Son of Heaven themselves as well as to the visitors from
many lands, some of them in the distant West, who we know thronged
the capital city of the Hans.

In China the walls of cities have retained their usefulness as in
perhaps no other country. An instance of this occurred a few years
ago, during a civil war. The attacking force attempted to use poison
gas; whereupon their opponents retired inside a walled town, closed
its gates, and found themselves quite safe. City walls have been
placed in repair (although probably not constructed de novo) in China
in very recent times. The study of their development there through
so long a period is therefore particularly instructive.

The earthworks at old Ch‘ang-an, dating as they do from an epoch
when China’s Bronze Age had only comparatively recently become one
of Iron, are especially worthy of study. During the few hours that we
were able to spend there, we saw enough to convince us that systematic
and extended excavation would beyond doubt yield results of very
great interest. Moreover, the nature of the site was such as to lend
itself particularly well to survey by airplane. Vertical air photo-
graphs of its varied features would be of especial value and would be
almost certain to reveal details which had escaped our notice on the
ground.

14 Roofing-tiles of baked clay seem to have come into use in China during the Eastern Chou period (770-
255 B. C.). By Han times, from around 200 B. C. onward, those used to cover important buildings had be-

gun to be painted in bright hues. It was not until the epoch of the Six Dynasties, well after the commence-
ment of our era, that the practice arose of covering them with colored glazes.
"youd HLIM GS90V4 YOIMSLXg “LNSAOSY YOsd dNWVY HLIM TIVM ALID ASANIHD AO YANHOD AO 39V4 YANNI

doysig—"9g¢6| *‘qaodayy upIuosy zg

“HONG HLIM YOIMSLN] GNY YOIMSLXy HLOg asaov4 *NOILONUYLSNOD ONIMOHS ‘DNIM3d AO TIVM ALID AO NOILOES SSOUD

2 ALWid doysigq—g¢6| *qaoday uelUosyqIUIG
“SHSMOL NSHLYVA HLIM HLYVy AO LIINg ‘SNIM3d AO LSAMHLYON ‘WNIHD AO T1VM LVSYS AO NOILYOd

€ 3ALV1d doysiq—g¢6| ‘J40dayy uetuosy {IWS
*SAONVLSIG NI YXS3MOL YANHOD ,,SNOILSVG,, MOHS OL >OSNIM3d “LVOW GNV T1VM NYaisvy 40 NOILYOd

yAaLvid doysiq—-gc6| ‘qaodayy UeIUOSYAIUIG
THE NATURAL LIMITS TO HUMAN FLIGHT!

By H. E. Wimprenis, C. B., C. B. E., D. Eng., F. R. Ae. S.

[With one plate]
INTRODUCTORY

The more I think about the subject chosen for this address, the
rasher does it seem. To proclaim limits to human flight is to do two
things. To say what can be done, and to suggest what cannot.
Now, though there may be little rashness in the one, there is much
in the other. If I say that such and such a thing can be done and
someone in the distant years points out that actually it has not been
done, my shade has the easy reply that achievement requires effort
and that my critics should use their brains. But if I suggest that
certain boundaries cannot be crossed, what fun for the coming race
of engineers who cross them (if they do), than to poke fun at the
memory of your lecturer to-night! ?

It must be rash since wise men have diligently avoided such issues.
Can one think of any engineer who has endeavored to lay down for
all time, what is the height of the highest skyscraper than can be
built, or the longest bridge there can ever be thrown across a river,
or the fastest motor car that the world will see? Again, does any
ship builder dare specify a natural limit to the size of future ships
or to the power of the engines they will carry?

Why in the field of aeronautics is this rashness found? It must, I
submit, either be because the subject is so well knit to its scientific
foundations that prophecy is tempting, or else, I tremble to say it,
that the impetuous youthfulness of aeronautics blows caution to the
winds. But if impetuosity be the key to the answer, I urge that by
assembling this row of aeronautical ninepins, I encourage the resource-
fulness of coming generations by providing them with the zest of
knocking them down. And that, I think, is worth doing.

The globe on which we live is a nearly spherical ball 8,000 miles
across. Its highest mountain, like its deepest sea, is about 5 miles

1 Presidential address delivered before The Royal Aeronautical Society on Monday, April 26, 1937. Re-

printed by permission from The Journal of the Royal Aeronautical Society, vol. 41, No. 324, December 1937.
2 And when I use the word “flight,” I mean flying with wings and not the flight of a projectile.

579
114728—39-——_38
580 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938

from the surface. Let us make a model. We take in our hands an
8-inch globe to represent the earth and show on it all mountains and
all seas. The noblest mountain will project but one two-hundredths
of an inch, and the greatest sea be a depression of no more. In
handling such a globe, it would be difficult even to feel the roughness
of the mountains or to detect the dampness of the ocean. Still more
surprising is it, that if the Bristol airplane were actually flying through
the atmosphere at the ceiling of its record-breaking height, it would
only just be possible to squeeze under it a sheet of ordinary writing
paper!

This shows the scale of things in true proportion. We are confined

PROGRESS of WORLD'S
SPEED RECORD.

600

S50

500

450

400

350

300

250

|seaPLanes
oe  ——————
a

200 LANDPLANES

SPEED in WM.P.H.

150
100

50

1905 1910 1915 1920 1925 1930 1935 1940

FIGURE 1.

to a very thin shell in which to move and have our being and this is
the first of nature’s bounds to the limits of human flight. If ever we
are to hatch out from our shell, we must discover some lifting power
which does not require an atmosphere.

It is easy to forget that our present attainments in human flight
have all grown from the endeavors of a single generation. Our
immediate predecessors in the air followed a much more leisurely
course. Prof. Julian Huxley * writes of bird evolution:

One thing at least is certain and significant; whereas in the general stock of
mammals, progress was being made and new and specialized lines budded out

3 Bird watching and bird behavior.
LIMITS TO HUMAN FLIGHT—WIMPERIS 581

up till a mere 5 or 10 million years ago, the birds settled down to stability about
half-way through the Teritiary Epoch, about 20 or 30 millions of years back,
and since then, though they have doubtless sprouted out innumerable tiny side-
twigs of new species and genera, do not seem to have made any real evolutionary
progress.

Nor, he adds, are they in the least likely to achieve any in the future
since they appear to have reached the limit of perfection attainable
in the circumstances prevailing upon the earth, by the kind of creature
which they are. Mankind has certainly speeded up the previous
rate of aeronautical evolution.

HIGH SPEED

I think I cannot do better than approach the problem of the attain-
ment of high speed than by quoting from the Creevey papers. The
adventure related, took place just over 100 years ago.

To-day we had a lark of a very high order. Lady Wilton sent over yesterday
from Knowsley to say that the locomotive machine was to be upon the railway
at such a place at 12 o’clock for the Knowsley party to ride in if they liked, and
inviting this house to be of the party. So of course we were at our post in three
carriages and some horsemen at the hour appointed. I had the satisfaction, for
I can’t call it pleasure, of taking a trip of 5 miles in it, which we did in just a
quarter of an hour. * * * The machine was occasionally made to put itself
out or go it; and then we went at the rate of 23 miles an hour. * * * But
the quickest motion is to me frightful: it is really flying, and it is impossible to
divest yourself of the notion of instant death to all upon the least accident happen-
ing. * * * Altogether I am extremely glad indeed to have seen this miracle,
and to have travelled in it. Had I thought worse of it than I do, I should have
had the curiosity to try it; but having done so, I am quite satisfied with my first
achievement being my last.

Perhaps it was his last but others were more adventurous. Around
the attainment of high speed, immense human interest has always
centered. The breaking of such records now rank as international
events, and the world probably spent a million pounds over the last
Schneider Trophy race. It is estimated that the ‘‘record” has been
rising steadily for 25 years at an average rate of 15 miles per hour
annually. Where is this to stop? Must it stop?

The attainment of very high speed depends upon combining great
engine power with low airplane drag. It is less obvious how it will
depend upon the altitude of flight. The latter question, however, is
very important, and perhaps we may consider it first. As we increase
height we decrease air density, and therefore decrease drag, so that
flying at altitude, if speed is desired, seems good sense; but this
simple conclusion is complicated by the engine factor and several
others. Let me deal first with the engine. The engine power is as
much affected by change of air density as is the drag, and how do
these conflicting tendencies balance the one against the other? This
082 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938

is, I think, most easily seen by drawing a single curve showing for a
representative design the amount of engine power necessary at all
heights in order to produce a specific level air speed. With such a
curve sheet (kindly drawn for me by Mr. A. R. Collins) it is simple to
add a graph showing the power which would be given atjeach height
by the engine; then when the engine is shown by the curve sheet to

UNIFORM AIR SPEED
“For bic SPEED AGROPLANE (300 m-P.4.)

HeiGguT - Feer.

FIGURE 2.—Power against altitude for constant speed.

be giving more power than is required for the basic speed chosen, it is
clear that a higher speed is attainable. A glance at this illustrative
diagram shows that this increase of speed is at its maximum at the
rated height of, the engine (i. e., the height at which the supercharger
just maintains “the, power at 2 sea-level value), and that afterward
the surplus power, and therefore the additional speed, will fall off till
the two curves cross, which they do at the altitude at which the speed
LIMITS TO HUMAN FLIGHT—WIMPERIS 583

is again at its original value. This diagram shows in a simple way
that merely pushing up the height of flight without paying attention to
the way in which the engine is affected by that height would be
foolish. Merely pushing up the altitude will not give greater speed.

Moreover, increase of altitude brings in other effects which we must
not ignore. One is that when flying near the ceiling, the angle of
incidence is increased, and with that increase comes a growth in the
relative proportion of induced drag to parasitic drag; this formerly
quite small fraction now becomes too large to be ignored and its
effect is to bring down the speed attained. Further, there has to
be considered the effect of change in Reynolds number with height of
flight.

The Reynolds number is too well known to need description, but it
is less well known that change in that number as an airplane climbs
to a height has an important and adverse bearing on the drag coefli-
cient. For a given wing, wing loading, and angle incidence, the
dynamic pressure (pV’) is the same at any altitude. But since
Reynolds number is proportional to both density and air speed
(ignoring for the moment any change in the viscosity of the air which
affects but does not change the conclusion), it follows that the Rey-
nolds number must fall as the air speed rises; hence the Reynolds
number at a high altitude of flight, despite the higher speed, will be
lower than at a less altitude.*. Any lowering of the Reynolds number
means an increase in the drag coefficient for both laminar and turbu-
lent skin friction. Hence for flight at altitude one must allow a higher
drag coefficient than would correspond to sea-level conditions. This
is a factor adverse to attaining great speed at height.

Apart from these particulars, the question of getting the highest
possible speed is one of providing an airplane which, while comfortably
containing pilot and engine, will have the minimum amount of
“wetted” area in proportion to engine power. Obviously, the body,
must be such as to house the pilot comfortably; this provides a certain
cubic capacity for the engine space in front of him, which in turn
governs the amount of power that can be derived from the engine.
Would one get any more speed by building a more spacious airplane?
Since a 10 percent increase in dimensions would put up the engine
power possibilities by 30 percent and the wetted area by only 20
percent, it is clear that one could, although with the disadvantage of
an increased landing speed. For any size of airplane, however, the
amount of power available related to the drag coefficient which cor-
responds to turbulent skin friction, gives a definite limit to the speed
attainable unless some method of getting still more engine power from
that given space, or of reducing (if we know how to) some part of the
drag to the lower level which corresponds to laminar flow. As Relf

‘ Cf. Von Karman on The problem of resistance in compressible fluids, Rome, 1936.
584 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938

pointed out in his 1936 James Forrest lecture, to make the flow remain
laminar over the whole surface would be to reduce the drag to one-
tenth of the values now normal. This I do not. think we shall ever
attain, but whether we do or not, we can at least ensure that wing
surfaces shall be made exceedingly smooth, particularly near the
leading edge and very particularly on the upper surface of the wing;
and we can see that when flush riveting cannot be used, the shape, and
place, of the rivets is such that they do not project through the laminar
layer. Steps can also be taken, now that the technique is known, to
reduce greatly the engine cooling drag—even if it may be to convert
it most marvelously into a small thrust.

Action on these lines applied to the designs of today soon brings
one close to the most formidable of all nature’s fences; that is the
natural limit to the speed with which the air is able to get out of the
way of the advancing airplane. The speed at which air can move
when pushed is the same as the velocity of sound, and once the
airplane speed approaches this boundary, it becomes more and more
difficult to push away the air in front. And there is nothing we can
do to increase the velocity of sound.

Perhaps we should study the mechanism more closely. When a
body moves it compresses the air just in front of it, and the resulting
pressure is communicated to the air farther ahead. This communi-
cation is, as I have said, carried out at the velocity of sound in the
medium. In air of normal sea-level pressure and temperature, this
velocity is 750 miles per hour. At greater altitudes it is less, not
because the pressure is less, but because the temperature is. If the
temperature were everywhere the same, the velocity of sound would
not change. Actually the square of the velocity is directly propor-
tional to the absolute temperature, so that in the stratosphere instead
of being 750 miles per hour it is only 650 miles per hour.

What precisely happens when the speed reaches this limit? When
that happens, the air ahead cannot be ‘warned’ of what is coming.
This leads to as many shocks and collisions as if an unlighted motor
car tried to get through a crowd of deaf people on a dark night.
When an airplane moves as fast as, or faster than, the velocity of
sound, collisions with the air particles are inevitable and there will
be an enormous loss of energy, through conversion into heat in the
resulting shock waves. Hence, the drag coefficient rises to a high
value as the velocity of sound is reached, and although it subsequently
recovers somewhat, it still remains very much higher than the sub-
sonic figure. Moreover, every roughness point on the airplane
ptoduces its own shock wave and therefore its own particular loss of
energy. It is true that the lift coefficient also increases at this time,
but the ratio of the lift to drag is substantially reduced and a less
efficient airplane results. ‘To some extent this might be thought to
LIMITS TO HUMAN FLIGHT—WIMPERIS 585

be overcome by a change of wing section, but since the wing section
cannot well be changed during flight, no compromised wing section
can be the best both at subsonic and supersonic speeds.

The forms of aerofoil employed for the air speeds customary today
have been studied unremittingly—even exhaustively. Much less is
known of those suited to supersonic speeds though work on airscrews
gives us some Jead. But it seems that sharper leading edges will be
needed and wings less deep than at present. Even so, the best lift
to drag ratios may be nearer 5 than 20, and this, if it continues, will
have striking consequences. Let us consider what could be the
physical requirements of an airplane flying at a speed equal to the
velocity of sound. An airplane weighing a ton will have a drag of
one-fifth of a ton on wing drag only, and perhaps as much as one-
third of a ton over all. This for a speed equal to the velocity of sound
will require 1,500 horse-power per ton—and, as this is the net figure,
the gross may be roughly put at 2,000. But a present-day engine of
this size would require the whole of this weight allowance and there
would be none left for the airframe and its contents! If speeds such
as these are to be attained it cannot therefore be by the engine as we
know it today.

In point of fact the limit to speed is reached even more rapidly than
these considerations indicate, since the air speed just above the top
of the wing is appreciably higher than the air speed of the machine
itself. Hence the critical boundary will be reached while the air
speed of the airplane is still substantially below the velocity of sound.
Taking everything into consideration, there is much to be said for
assessing the maximum possible speed of level flight with the present
type of engine as over 500 but less than 600 miles per hour. It is
true, however, that if we could suppress everything but laminar drag,
or if there were some entirely new prime mover invented giving vastly
greater thrust than an internal combustion engine of the same cubic
capacity (even one using the very latest fuels of the highest octane
numbers), it might be still possible to force the airplane through the
air at even higher speeds. But there is not the least present indication
of either of these being practically possible. So 600 miles per hour
is likely to remain the limit to the speed of human flight.

The highest speeds today are all sea-level speeds, but the greatest
speeds in the near future are likely to be attained at high altitudes,
though as they will be the achievement of military types we shall not
hear much about them; a few years later they will again be attained
at sea level—since at sea level the velocity of sound barrier is not so
soon encountered. At sea level, therefore, it is that human flight
will reach the limit imposed by nature’s unclimbable fence.
086 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938
THE POWER OF MANEUVER

In many forms of aircraft, power of maneuver is vital. Does the
increasing speed of flight have any effect on this vital requirement
whether because of a limit to the endurance of the human body or of
the airplane itself? It is also important to know whether we are
approaching some physiological limit to either the rate of climb or the
vertical speed of dive. We are all more or less familiar with what is
known as caisson disease. This trouble arises when a diver working
under several atmospheres of pressure, with much nitrogen absorbed
into his blood, comes to the surface and the surplus gas bubbles out as
the pressure is relieved. During the climb of an airplane, the atmos-
pheric pressure is also gradually relieved, but here the rate of change
of pressure is so slight, and the total change of pressure so small, that
the physiological effect is unimportant. Since, however, the rate of
dive is vastly greater than any possible rate of ascent, it is reasonable
to ask whether in this more rapid action physiological difficulties may
not occur. Here an arithmetical parallel is of service. Even if we
take a direct dive through 8,000 feet at as high a speed as 400 miles
per hour, the total change of pressure is no more than any swimmer
would encounter who dived 10 feet deep into water; moreover, the
total time taken by the air dive, some 7 or 8 seconds, does not represent
anything more sudden than would be encountered by such a swimmer.
We may, therefore, conclude that there is little to fear in this case also.
As Wing Commander G. 8S. Marshall, of the Royal Air Force Medical
Service, put it in his lecture ° to the Society: ‘“Power dives are done at
the almost unbelievable speed of 30,000 ft. per minute without ap-
parent harmful biophysical effect.” As regards acceleration in taking
off, or deceleration in landing, these are not anything to which the
human frame does not easily adapt itself. This applies also to the
catapulted take-off. The acceleration to which we are all subjected
in a motor car driven in normal London trafiic is just as severe.

There are, nevertheless, other accelerations which arise during flight
which are of a totally different character. These are the ones due to
centrifugal force. An airplane steadily banked on a turn at 45° will
impose a horizontal force on its occupants equal to their own weight
and this combines with the normal weight of the body so that the total
weight on the passenger’s seat is increased by almost half as much
again. Banking at 60° would double this load.

There are also large centrifugal forces introduced when an aircraft is
suddenly pulled out of a dive. In almost any aircraft the controls are
so powerful that it is mechanically possible for the pilot so to manipu-
late the elevator as to break a wing. Of course, for this to happen the
acceleration imposed has to be exceedingly great, equivalent, perhaps,

5 Royal Acronautical Society, January 1933.
LIMITS TO HUMAN FLIGHT—WIMPERIS 587

to 12 times the gravitational acceleration, commonly known as 12 g.
It fortunately happens, however, that the human body shows warning
signs of distress long before the*airplane. When, for instance, an
acceleration force of 5 g. is encountered, the body is affected in the
same way as it would be were the blood suddenly increased to five
times its normal specific gravity. The effect, naturally, is that the
blood seeks a lower level, and by denuding the brain of its normal
share, causes the failure of visual faculties known as “‘blacking out.”
This produces no permanent effect, but for the time being the pilot sees
nothing, and even though he still maintains control of the machine, it
is a control unguided by any visual information from either the instru-
ment board or the external world. Even higher accelerations than
this have’ been endured by pilots, though not with any degree of hap-
piness. I have read of an American experience of 11 g. requiring sub-
sequent hospital treatment, and of 15 g. leading to a complete crash,
though in the latter case it was difficult to distinguish between the
results of human failure and the failure of the airplane structure.
Nature does then impose a definite limit to the safe rate of pulling out
from a dive and that limit is a physiological one and difficult to modify
by human ingenuity. One alternative is to await the long process of
normal human evolution and another to induce pilots to adopt the
prone position when flying—the one change might take as long to
bring about as the other.

It will be natural to ask what happens to the human frame when the
acceleration comes in the opposite direction, that is toward one’s
head instead of toward one’s feet. This is what happens in the
maneuver known as ‘‘the bunt,’ and there then arises a suffusion of
the brain by more than its normal supply of blood, leading to what is
known as the “redding out” of vision. This maneuver is, however,
always a dangerous one and on it authority frowns.

We have lastly to consider what I mentioned first, the effect on
maneuver of the steadily rising air speeds of modern aircraft. The
relationship is a simple one. The measure of the acceleration which
has so marked a physiological effect is proportional to the product
of the angular rate of turn by the linear velocity. If, therefore, the
linear velocity be doubled, as has indeed happened over a com-
paratively short range of years in typical aircraft, the rate of maneuver
must be halved if the safe acceleration limit is not to be passed. It
follows from this that as machines become more and more speedy,
so they must become less and less maneuverable. The effect of this
on the dog fighting of the past is outside the scope of this address,
though it is an interesting subject on which to speculate.

Let the speeds of aircraft increase as they may, the speed of nerve
impulses in the human pilot will remain unchanged, namely, about
100 meters per second. Moreover, as in other means of signalling,
588 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938

terminal delays need to be taken into account. It appears that when
a nerve impulse starts from, say, the hand to reach the brain, the over-
all time taken for the response is very much longer than that of the
mere passage of the signal along the nerves. This time lag before
the brain is able to act on information received was, I feel sure, an
important factor in some tests carried out a number of years ago at
Farnborough. It was then thought that it would be a good thing
if an indication could be given to the pilot when he pulled out from a
dive, of the moment when he put on an acceleration higher than was
safe. This indication was given by having inside the control lever
a tiny accelerometer unit which, when the acceleration passed any
set limit, say, 4 g., jerked the pilot’s hand. The jerk warned him that
it was advisable to slacken off the rate at which he was pulling out.
The instrument worked well, but the idea failed because although the
indication was given to the pilot’s hand and thence to his brain, the
airplane was too quick for the combination. Careful laboratory
tests showed that it was impossible for the pilot to push the control
lever forward in less than one-fifth of a second after the indication
had been given by this device to his hand. In actual flight the time
lag might be longer. In the words of the report ® presented to the
aeronautical research committee: ‘In the case of intentionally violent
use of the controls no warning however swiftly given could be of sery-
ice to the pilot.”

Incidentally, anyone who wonders what an acceleration of 5 g. is
like can obtain the information without getting into an airplane at all.
Consider a child swinging in an ordinary garden swing. If the child
swings up to such a height that he can just see the horizon over the
top bar he will experience as he rushes past the bottom of the swing
an acceleration force of 3 g. If the swing be of the fair type with
iron rods in place of ropes we can in theory, at any rate, start the
swing from the very top (so that the poor child is inverted and has to
be strapped in). In this extreme case the acceleration force when the
seat swings through its lowest position will be exactly 5 g.; and this
it will always be whatever the height of the swing or the weight of the
child.

The effect of applying to the human body a steady lateral acceler-
ation can also be illustrated by an ingenious device at the University
of Géttingen, where a cylindrical room is mounted on bearings so
that it may be rapidly rotated. People standing in that room see
nothing but a dial to tell them that the room is being rapidly turned
round, but the effect upon their limbs when they try to use them,
and still more on their mental sensations when they suddenly incline
their head serves to show how easy it is to deceive the brain as to what

oR. & M. 1446.
LIMITS TO HUMAN FLIGHT—WIMPERIS 589

is taking place. The relation of this to the spinning airplane is of
interest.
THE EXTREME ALTITUDE OF FLIGHT

I come now to the problem of high flying. What are the conditions
which limit the altitude of flight? We know that the higher one flies
the lower the air density and the smaller, therefore, the quantity of
oxygen that passes into the human lungs and into the engine cylinders.
The engine itself is really almost human. It breathes in air, it takes
in fuel, it changes it chemically, gets rid of waste products, maintains
its own warmth and does not like being either too hot or too cold.
Like the human body it is liable to suffocation and needs super-
charging or the equivalent thereof. There are two effects to consider,
the effect of oxygen want in the human body and of a similar lack in
the airplane engine. It so happens that the effect on the former
operates much more rapidly than it does on the latter. Both are
accustomed to working under normal atmospheric conditions at sea
level where the pressure is about 15 pounds per square inch, and the
proportion of oxygen in the atmosphere about one-fifth of the whole.

We are fortunate in having a careful study of this question in a
lecture delivered by Prof. G. T. R. Hill before the Royal Society of
Arts in 1935. I think his conclusions are entirely correct—certainly
on this point—and it is worth summarizing them. Since the air
pressure at 35,000 feet is just one-fifth of what it is at sea level, it
follows that human beings will be as well off with oxygen at that alti-
tude as by breathing ordinary air at sea level. But experience has
shown that even without any artificial supply of oxygen, flight at 15,000
feet is possible; the lungs can adapt themselves to that condition of
slight oxygen starvation—provided that no particular bodily exertion
is called for. Supplying pure oxygen at 42,000 feet would correspond
to this same degree of starvation. But when 45,000 feet is reached
oxygen starvation reaches the fainting point—a condition similar to
that which arises in the absence of oxygen at some 20,000 feet. The
supply of pure oxygen to the pilot, making the oxygen richness approxi-
mately five times as large as it would otherwise be, has, therefore, the
effect of postponing the normal fainting point for the average pilot to
some 45,000 feet, which corresponds very closely to the altitude
records obtained in recent years when the pilot was fed in this way.
Thus Uwins reached some 44,000 feet in 1932, and Donati 47,000 in
1934. The opinion expressed by Wing Commander G. S. Marshall’
some 4 years ago was that while the safe limit of height for a person
breathing pure oxygen was 44,000 feet on a flight straight up and down
again, he would not state this to be the limit of possible human endur-
ance. How high birds can fly I do not know, but Hugh Ruttledge

T Royal Aeronautical Society, January 1933.
590 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938

showed in a recent lecture on an Himalaya climb a photograph of a
lark sitting on her eggs at a height of 18,000 feet. And I suppose she
did not get there on her feet!

The existing altitude record of 50,000 feet, obtained in 1936 by Flight
Lieutenant Swain in a Bristol airplane, was reached in a different way.
In this case the pilot was enclosed in a suit—rather like a diver’s
suit—which could be kept at a pressure of several pounds per square
inch higher than that of the external atmosphere. Oxygen is pre-
ferred for such a suit because of the lower pressure required and hence
the greater ease of movement. Actually 2% pounds per square inch

PROGRESS of WORLDS
ALTITUDE RECORD.

60,000

50,000

40,000

30,000

20,000

ALTITUDE in FEET

10,000

1$05 1510 1915 1920 1925 1930 1935 1940
FIGURE 3.

is found to be a convenient pressure, and such a suit has been tested
in a low pressure chamber to a “‘height”’ of 80,000 feet.

Of course, one may go further than a special suit and provide an
enclosed cabin in which a suitable internal pressure is artificially main-
tained. Although there would be grave objections to this in a military
aircraft, there would be none in civil machines other than perhaps a
reluctance to face the necessarily cramped space in which the occu-
pants would be confined. Although the temperature is low in the
stratosphere, flight at high speeds brings its compensation, since any
entering air would be heated by compression by the number of degrees
centigrade that is equal to the square of the speed in hundreds of miles
an hour, e. g., 9° centigrade at 300 miles per hour.
LIMITS TO HUMAN FLIGHT—WIMPERIS 591

By these expedients it is possible, theoretically at any rate, to
postpone indefinitely the failure of the human mechanism, and the
limit to the altitude performance becomes solely that of the engine.
Does nature here impose a definite limit? At 50,000 feet the air
density is but a ninth of that at ground level, and since for practical
reasons there is no question of supplying the engine with oxygen, the
task of supercharging the cylinders adequately is a severe problem,
beyond the capacity in fact of any single supercharger. Efforts to
increase the altitude still higher than the present limit must impose
more and more severe duties on the supercharging mechanism, which,
therefore, must needs increase in bulk and weight. In the limit, this
very increase in weight makes the attainment of higher altitudes more
difficult. So far as present day possibilities in design are concerned,
I may cite the estimate given by Mr. Barnwell in his lecture at Bristol
in February last that if one went “all out’’ for an altitude record, a
height of 61,000 feet should be attainable.

There must at any future time be a design limit to what is possible
in the light of the materials then available, but it would be rash to
forecast finality since the one thing which does seem limitless is the
fertility of the brain of a designer once new materials become avail-
able. At present we have no means of predicting what new materials
may arrive in the future. We are but beginning to grope our way
through knowledge of crystal lattice structure towards a coming
technique of alloy design.

THE RANGE OF FLIGHT

It is far from easy to find any limits imposed by the laws of nature
on the greatest distance that an airplane can fly without refuelling.
How, for instance, does range of flight depend on the size of the air-
craft, the power of the engine, and the height chosen? Itis sometimes
thought strange that airplanes of what I may call the same vintage,
using the same fuel and with equally efficient engines, show when
flying at their most economical speed precisely the same figure of
ton-miles per gallon (the figure is the same as that commonly obtained
in the ordinary motor car). This is true whatever the size of the air-
plane may be, and whatever the altitude of flight. I suggest that
the simplest way to understand this seemingly strange result is this.
At all air densities there is one particular incidence for a given air-
plane which gives the maximum value of the ratio of lift to drag, and,
therefore, the lowest value of the drag for that particular airplane.
Hence, when flying level at this incidence, the lift being equal to the
weight, the drag must have a constant value. (I ignore for the
moment the effect of any change of weight due to fuel consumption.)
Now, with a constant drag force the work done to cover a specific
distance through the air must be a fixed and definite amount, inde-
592 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938

pendent of the air density, and, therefore, of the altitude of flight.
If the engine is equally efficient at all air densities, it follows that the
work done by the engine must also be the same for any given distance
through the air, whatever the altitude. Hence, the minimum ton-
miles per gallon must be independent of the altitude. There is no
advantage, therefore, under still air conditions, in flying high in order
to beat the record for range of flight.

In practice, of course, one has to allow for the fact that the total
weight will gradually diminish as the fuel is used up. And in normal
flying one must also allow for the consideration that flight at a speed

PROGRESS or WORLD'S
DISTANCE RECORD.

8.000

7000

CLOSED CIRCUIT

DISTANCE in MILES

1905 1910 1915 i220 1925 1950 1935 1940

FIGURE 4.

which corresponds to the most efficient incidence may not always be
operationally convenient, and that is what is found convenient
cannot but be related to the speed of the prevailing wind, and since
winds vary with altitude, the problem is complex.

Nevertheless, it is a convenient starting point to realize that for
air planes having engines of a given efficiency using specific fuels, the
maximum possible ton-miles per gallon tends to be independent of
altitude. Hence, the natural limit to range of flight depends far
less upon the altitude than upon the attainment of high engine econ-
omy, of low airplane drag, and of so low a structure weight as to allow
really large fuel tanks to be carried.
LIMITS TO HUMAN FLIGHT—WIMPERIS 593

Messrs. Rockefeller and Moore have recently published a forecast
that a range of 20,000 km without refuelling may ultimately be
attainable. If they are right, we shall attain a range enough to enable
every single spot on the earth to be reached from every other—a
conclusion which will please those who have neat minds, but alarm
those who love solitude.

SOME REFLECTIONS

I think it would be fair to say of all of us that our reflections on this
intense aeronautical activity are mixed; even confused. There is the
view expressed by Lord Trenchard many years ago (Cambridge in
1925), that if he had bis way he would ‘‘abolish the air.” The same
view was wittily expressed recently by a writer in ‘““Truth’—‘‘What
a pity, though, that the Creator, when he made flight so difficult to
achieve, did not do the job thoroughly and make it absolutely impos-
sible!’ But—‘‘Unfortunately, as Adam and Eve learnt to their cost,
it is easier to obtain knowledge than to escape from its consequences.”’

There is, however, another side to this great question. The fears
expressed are largely those engendered by a form of warlike attack
against which there is thought to be little or no defense. But the
struggle between attack and defense has taken place in all ages, and
with all forms of weapon; sometimes the pendulum swings in favor of
the one and sometimes in favor of the other. With aircraft, the attack
has for years been in the ascendant, the pendulum is even now over
on that side; but this I am glad to think is a passing phase, and
already the pendulum is on the move.

May I quote two striking sentences used by Colonel Lindbergh
during a recent visit to Germany—“The responsibility which we incur
by creating a powerful destructive force is lightened by the knowledge
that this force is being controlled by reason and experience, and that
we have separated such a force from ignorance. I find hope in the
belief that power which goes hand in hand with knowledge will not
be a menace to civilization.”

As I suggested by way of comfort at one of our recent meetings, no
country can become materially strong in the new Arm of the Air unless
there exists in almost limitless degree noble gallantry in its young men,
and fine intelligence in the engineers charged with the development
and construction of this Arm. Changes now in sight will, I am certain,
call in future years for these great qualities even more intensely.
And though the qualities of gallantry and fine intelligence may perhaps
not be the supreme human qualities, they are, nevertheless, most noble
ones, and it is a happy thought that those countries alone which
possess them can become great in the strength of the new Air Arm.
; . Boh deh anikisanshrelan fart? ey ify ms a ait ne ait ty det Sho
thie ahd Heotar eh “Hoesitrehy Aad Sax ur seh AIR Tapeh niine of xl Tes)
a wee subiidenn)) ODA EF {e ny, U viet bvaseckon wr, frityt ed hoananipaca a
©) ‘erate od" rin okt ‘dettncdie”” Get, ot Gay i Band a iW: oy
TT ieee icd

tev? ai winw a wd AST Ts Hot ‘been et KO ylinting’ Ts
a - is iiisidtib of Hint stent ad 7 viele ohare: any omits lgsrons ais: a

+ - anger Yiotiioe Z ‘ jal het art Qusi ereiehy: df stadt ob tort hi
(3209 rind? 02 hirtesf evel bint onabit ast <Ulndarssrto ted 4 Le

1 ag niotsp: rte at Mur? 6quose OF coil i} onbelwo er ay oprab

erabt atl’ .coteqip tw iid at bh Od a Hie torltoney, rarererost iat a ut

doatia odilinw to nirot | i betel Wig tigi wars a ayral an pinion ye
id durch | nerwtoh an 10 ol Lil od ot dskguorhy /eh reel. dolce I via
hen sogn [edi soak (ad endl byte nb bay Hoa cove wise |

10 TovAT ai agsinwe sei haes
Aosiia sd? Martie | 4 ‘ailde alt No awe eomnbtornoe brun 4 Me
AYO HOM 199 ek eevee racy pris trial nese agt ox nt ond ase rot Balt '

fia. Send irieame! a ei nisl t huky 1g LE eel) tnd ‘pbia: tit te
> ‘ a "I ie

. wae art ‘wth, 10 et ca lubatney adt y bao
dow birk feat toed Boar sso hee ag ital money addin 1 % Mis
TIO OV ss nabyr esiki taco ut sdaintat AD | eomnacesa yay de ad am on |
9% hyalaros tH baht rd.) JM earth J

o> tad

>

ita’ aout ogxe ) Birte’ io i ve Cierauinte a mati ' ai with si
ad ot aod fi L. > emcuttoitet nro oandt « iPoints bess. | |
tor ting eebulvort {' riba rus rat ber Tvtifecd disci ‘WO
ee biel } ' ie Th
pone | Der Brenan \roiinsilivia oF ohana:
om annissenn taped “aie. Te ono ta He Ou xD to yaw vd batenuuie 3 { ah
mbplehe rity ails toners Ao yeep al ai gitérate: ‘ella racecteneaent rope roy
SOT BOAO iti . arigntten alifnte witeah he ‘ncobtiveadl dencirbnt tary ee
SSFGNE gala ih odiavine Peotnley erode Fi i asker lodiak stil
Death any sie dfatantiuia idan uO ire bs pido srsidar say ro i
risen BIH, Aa ve Gort kihuds ai iasea ss ta abrht whi: safety, write) i
 aierhba cada soneniligtabordl bru ent pillemtes sititenps wildcat oa
otdwiritnatt gesloitea vor shone "9 sie er eared byes er
dakidve vassal \sobet satis 0
corign tiene wot adn te iHisy vote itis oti “sie spoon! hans ava

ae bie ( ee #4) ie’ Wy o rs A racy

‘(8EL TOLSING) GHYOOSAY AGNLILIW AO YaqG10H

; rated va. “vest
Se ee RNG
="

a <a
et | =

| 3LV1d stodunt A\— 861 *quoday ueluosyqIuIG
THE HISTORIC AMERICAN MERCHANT MARINE
SURVEY

By Frank A. TAYLOR
Curator, Division of Engineering, United States National Museum

[With 11 plates]

The progressive development of watercraft can be discussed intel-
ligently only with accurate knowledge of the actual designs of hun-
dreds of specialized types of craft. The lack of such knowledge has
resulted in unsatisfactory generalizations about the designs of many
vessels which have figured prominently in our history and over-
emphasis upon relatively unimportant but better described types.
It is true that several authorities in the past have made compilations
of designs of watercraft and in more recent times many plans of im-
portant individual vessels have appeared in textbooks and professional
publications. But these are scant records of a large and involved
development and they have been used almost to exhaustion by stu-
dents and writers. Most of the inferences in regard to the develop-
ment of watercraft have been drawn rightly or wrongly from these
too meager sources.

Plans of early naval vessels are preserved in the archives of national
admiralty offices and are reasonably available, but there are no com-
parable collections of plans of merchant vessels. In the United
States about a half-dozen museums, libraries, and universities and an
equal number of collectors and students have worth while collec-
tions. The bulk of these, however, relates to large merchant vessels
of the period of 1840 to 1885 which were built at well-established yards
where the models and plans from which they were built were fortu-
nately preserved. Though much of the missing information has been
irrecoverably lost, there is in existence a large quantity of invaluable
evidence which requires to be sought out and preserved. It was to
secure as much as possible of the passing evidence now available and
to put it into form for preservation and distribution that the Historic
American Merchant Marine Survey was created.

The scheme of the Survey as conceived by its originator and director,
Hric J. Steinlein, was to establish a project of the Works Progress
Administration to employ unemployed professional people and
mechanics from the ship and boat building industries to make marine
architectural drawings, photographs, and written reports describing
old vessels. The records produced were to be preserved and made

595

114728—39 39
596 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938

available for study in the Watercraft Collection of the United States
National Museum. The sources of information for the records were
in most instances old vessels still in existence and in other cases the
authenticated models, plans, and tables of dimensions in collections
not readily available for study. The distribution of the sources indi-
cated a national set-up, and regional offices were established wherever
the supervisory and operating personnel could be organized to func-
tion within the limited time originally determined upon as the life
of the project. Regional offices were established at Portland, Maine:
Boston; New York; Wilmington, Del.; Baltimore; Hampton, Va.;
Jacksonville; Tampa; Chicago; and San Francisco. Though the
life of the project was extended from time to time, it is unfortunate
that no single extension was for a sufficient length of time to justify
creating new regional offices other than those originally established.
It is obvious that many localities where there have been important
developments of watercraft were not reached by the Survey.

The actual operation of the Survey fell largely upon the regional
supervisors, many of whom were authorities on the subject and were
persuaded to undertake the work out of a spirit of public service,
while others were selected upon the recommendations of museums, or
students of watercraft in the localities. These men in turn selected
their personnel from local unemployed pools and organized field sur-
vey parties and drafting offices. The supervisors, upon suggestions
from the Director, made preliminary surveys of their localities and
submitted reports upon vessels and material available for survey and
in return received instructions as to the order in which the work should
be undertaken. Priority in most cases was given to vessels or material
in immediate danger of being lost or destroyed and to desirable vessels
due to be hauled out for painting or repairs. The drawings, photo-
graphs, and reports were completed under the direction of theregional
supervisors and sent to Washington with the original field notebooks
forthe approval of the Director and acceptance by the National
Museum. The surveys accepted total 270 vessels, 677 drawings, and
545 photographs which, with field notes and reports, are readily
available for examination and study at the Museum. Negatives of
drawings and photographs are kept on file and prints of both are dis-
tributed upon order at nominal cost.

The file of well-executed drawings and supporting material produced
by the Survey is beyond question one of the outstanding compilations
of designs of American watercraft. Descriptions of a few surveys
will indicate the scope and character of the work.

Typical of the surveys of local types are those of the scow schooners
of San Francisco Bay. These vessels are descended from the first
boats built in California after the gold rush and several, converted
to power, are in use today in much the same trade as the first ones.
MERCHANT MARINE SURVEY—TAYLOR 597

At one time more than 100 were in use carrying hay, grain, gravel,
and bricks about the bay and tributary rivers. They appear to have
been built by “rule of thumb” or the experience of one generation
of builders passed on to the next, and no plans have been found.
The last one was built in 1904, though one built as long ago as 1870
was made the subject of a survey. The drawings show shallow-
draft, scow-ended, flat-bottomed vessels of simple construction, well
suited for sailing in shoal waters and for beaching on an even keel
for loading where there were no wharf facilities. They ranged in
length from 60 to 90 feet, with 65 to 75 feet the most popular size.
None of the vessels surveyed was rigged for sail, but original sail-
makers’ draughts supplied the details for the restoration of sail
plans. The schooner rig with main gaff topsail was the most popular,
though some were without topsails, some had fore and main gaff
topsails, and a few were sloop-rigged. Early photographs show the
scows carrying enormous deck loads of hay with the sails reefed high
to clear the load and the helmsman steering from a pulpit built up
10 or 15 feet above the deck.

The same waters have produced many other distinctive types of
craft of which the oddest is, perhaps, the felucca. It is a small
lateen-rigged, double-ended, open boat formerly employed by the
Italian fishermen of San Francisco Bay. Unlike any other American
type, its sweeping, slanting spars were patterned on those of Medi-
terranean boats familiar to the Italians. Toward theend of the last
century scores of these fished in the Bay, but only one could be found
recently to survey for the purpose of preserving its design. An effect
of the survey of this particular boat was to focus attention upon it as
probably the last remaining one of its type with the happy result
that it was subsequently acquired by the Mariners’ Museum for
preservation.

Other interesting local craft, large and small, too numerous to
describe in detail, were surveyed and drawn up wherever the Survey
operated. Great Lakes schooners and steamers of many periods, a
collection of Mackinaw fishing boats, and a Wisconsin logging bateaux
indicate the variety of some 60 surveys produced by the Chicago
office.

In Florida, surveys were made of the greatest variety ranging
from the sponge sloops of Greek influence to old sternwheel river
steamers. These last are represented by two steamers built in 1870
and 1898, the wrecks of which still remain. They were important
links in the transportation of travelers before the railroads ran along
both coasts and across the State. They typify the period when the
slowness and hardship of travel were compensated for by the leisure
to observe the details of the country. The steamers, for example,
were equipped with iron baskets to carry burning light wood to
598 | ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1938

illuminate the banks while young officers called ‘‘Alligator on the
left,” ‘‘Alligator on the right,” or “Low trees!’ for the entertainment
and safety of the passengers on the cabin roof.

The survey personnel working from Hampton, Baltimore, and
Wilmington turned in excellent surveys of the Chesapeake Bay and
Delaware Bay types as well as of the large wooden ships built in
great numbers in the yards about Wilmington. The surveys of
Chesapeake Bay log canoes of many types from both ends of the Bay
provide the first complete collection of data for a comprehensive
study of this craft. A number of the drawings were reproduced
even before the completion of the Survey in Chesapeake Bay Log
Canoes, in 2 volumes, by M. V. Brewington (Mariners’ Museum,
Newport News, Va., 1937).

The New York office served principally as a draughting office and
did good work in finishing drawings from data fed to it by other
offices not so well staffed with draughtsmen. An outstanding original
contribution was made in the drawings of the lines of the famous
clipper ship Sea Witch, designed by John W. Griffiths in 1846. It
is the first time that these lines made from an original drawing in the
possession of the granddaughter of Griffiths have been available for
study.

New England, as might be expected, was a fertile field where the
problem was not to find subjects to survey but to select the most
useful evidence to preserve. Two different undertakings there will
indicate the scope and caliber of the work. Permission was obtained
to secure the lines of half models in a little-known and not readily
accessible private collection representing the vessels operated by one
family firm during the larger part of the nineteenth century. This
collection includes half models of vessels built from 1849 to 1872,
represents the work of some 26 different builders, and illustrates the
development of the American merchant ship by some of the finest
examples of marine architecture of the period. The period was one
of the most active and interesting of American merchant marine
history and the collection represents vessels of the preclipper or packet
types, clippers, and modified clippers, and the later so-called down-
easters.

Contrasted with this was the survey of the Piscataqua River gunda-
low, descendant of colonial hay barges and distantly related to the
river and lake gun-boats of the Revolutionary War. Alluded to as
early as 1650, scowlike vessels propelled by poles were used in the
bays and rivers of New England to transport salt, lumber, marsh
grass, etc. In the Piscataqua region these barges developed into
fully decked, spoon-bow vessels, with lateen sails and leeboards. Of
exceedingly shoal draft to go into the shallowest tributaries, they
could carry more than 30 tons of cargo, and in the strong tideways of
MERCHANT MARINE SURVEY—TAYLOR 599

the river were, reputedly, the match of yachts built for speed alone.
They were propelled by a small sail bent to a slanting yard suspended
from a chain on a stump mast so rigged and balanced that the yard
and sail could be brought down almost to the deck to pass under
bridges and raised again with the least possible inconvenience.'

In addition to the file of material described, the Survey had an
inestimable value in the preservation of the skill and interest of crafts-
men of the shipbuilding industry, as well as a record of some achieve-
ment in instructing young men and partially skilled personnel in
more advanced branches of their work. Many men were called from
employment on the Survey to old or new positions in the industry.

The Survey was terminated as a Federal project in October of
1937, though several offices have been continued as State projects
under local sponsorship. Copies of drawings and other material pro-
duced by these projects are being currently offered to the National
Museum for preservation with the main collection.

APPENDIX

A partial list of types and dates grouped under the Survey offices is as follows:

PortTLaND, Mainr.—Bay and river steamers, 1900-1907; schooners, 1873-1891;
ship Mount Washington, 1840.

Boston, Mass.—Fishing schooners, 1856-1936; coasting and other schooners,
1854-1888; ships and barks, 1846-1873; Tancook whaler, 1909; Whitehall boat,
1860; No Mans Land boat, 1898; U. S. Revenue schooner, 1833; North River
sloop, 1836; Friendship sloop, 1902; waterboat, 1866; sloops, 1876-1896;
sharpies, 1900; gundalows, 1886-1936.

New York, N. Y.—Ship Sea Witch, 1846; Hell Gate pilot boat, 1886.

WILMINGTON, DrEL.—Coasting and trading schooners, 1874-1877; bark Sarah S.
Ridgeway, 1877; oyster schooners, 1904-1926; clam and oyster garveys: stur-
geon and pot fishing skiffs; steamer John G. Christopher, 1892.

BattimoreE, Mp., and Hampton, Va.—Log canoes, 1835-1898; bugeyes, 1885-
1902; sloops, skipjacks, 1852-1899; schooners, 1856-1899; fishing bateaux, 1920—
1928; scow sloop, 1874; tow-boat, 1883; sail plans of Bay craft, 1862-1901;
sloop Frances and pilot schooner Mary Taylor, 1849; Staten Island oyster skiff.

JACKSONVILLE and Tampa, Fia.—Sponge fishing sloops, yawls, dinghies, from
lateen-rigged Hydra to 1937; Bahama and keys fishing sloops, 1855-1930;
schooners, 1855-1902; sharpies, 1884-1904; skipjack, c. 1875-1896; Seminole
dugout, 1837; Nicaraguan cayuca; catboat, 1885; steam tugs, 1883-1895;
river steamers, 1870-1898; the Danish bark Prins Valdemar, 1892; Long
Island Sound sand-bagger sloop, 1872.

CuicaGco, Inu.—Lakes schooners, 1853-1895; steamers, 1852-1890; steam tow-
boats, 1886-1896; steam barges and scows, 1873-1892; canal boat, 1875; river
scow; scow schooner; sail plans of schooners, 1853-1881; Mackinaw fishing
boats, 1887-1900; logging bateau, c. 1890; motor passenger boat Gypsy, 1911.

San Francisco, Catir.—Scow schooners, 1870-1902; ships, barks, and barken-
tines, 1880-1902; felucca, c. 1900; schooners, 1882-1917; Norwegian cutter
Gjoa, 1872; steam schooner, Roosevelt, 1905; Diesel tugs, 1914-1923; paddle
steamers, 1875-1894.

1 A partial list of types of vessels surveyed with their dates is appended.
114728—39——-40
ey"

a i , 7 : aie b neat
i) Caan ; i ne PT IRE areal ee tee neha’ wey

ot ‘ ‘ uf ky BLS wii: + At wht a0. pe Ober ,

46, bntagio

vaeres { ‘ f j
(Se, IAT R  e

f rr

= (20a 287k

'
api ies hop (A MAL eRe ian tnatd ane
Ca Cho) OA BRE wih ack th see isha
t ula, * 4 be |
GM: SU PAN ier ge ihe ee bite 4
Peas ry ea eo
ved
y | if.
Mose Des
\ a id "

ey ere

mes : a)
F , P cdnlihd, teabeo tet teed
Als, ate iL Pok RIG, BAN A Ee

hair ts Wg? Sa niche
PbXi ' mw’ £ *
+ : 4
—— ri +
; oy 7 8 f * i
‘4 fad
shel y) ine © Po) af KAS +i)
; ™
+ ably ‘ ye ita
Ae ae) {> He)
it i
Ls At ihe .
TUCMOn pr asiiae ee OTA TR Daa Vat

Wo. asciyh Axel’ dat te 19 if sas
Gani

as SC SEG ny i ca 7

ea

Peet oie d WHat gt ah 1, t

“ ‘
ape I a Oe F " Te ce
Bari Gar ech ie Sen EG Dy

{
bees PROG EAS aie

Rin eet

+
-

WA

‘

“LE6L “(WNASNW AVNOILVN SSLVLS GSLINN “1T1WH LvOg AO YSENYHOD

a

L 3SLV1d
1ojAe | —*oc¢) ‘y10dayy ueuosy}IWwiC
Smithsonian Report, 1938.—Taylor PEATE 2

5
2
: e
i S
i © Hi
a Hf : oe
Eatieg cle} : sf
cap te arse ; Hs
le eee | : be
rte Pek, eo £ oe
FER Og » ra
2 obo 8 .
3 |
}
1
33
is ia
Eats 4
Ge
Na Sd } : i
1S as Ps :
; ES ale
i ¥ aS 4
z 25 4
IF : a
|
:
a i
is i
© i
ray «
xe
LJ
:
: .
Bud
= 2
a at
AMIDSHIPS SECTION as
LOOKING AFT AT MAIN HATCH
cro 7 @russ ott
WORs= FPOGRESS ADRANISTRATION SORE OF VER stds HISTO c AMEPICAN ph)

——— EMILY F. WHITNEY cp ae ee

1. Bark Emily F. Whitney, 1880. Amidships section.

Ar Sak PLAN

FEBRUARY 24 1490

Daren

NOIE Comro rao

“10

SAIL AND SPAR PLAN
FORWARD END
uli tli
scaceé

‘Sea =

Nall

2. Bark Newsboy, 1882. Sail and spar plan forward end.

WORKS PROGRESS ADMINISTRATION

SMITABONIAN INSTITUTION
U8 Ano Me

SPECIMEN DRAWINGS PRODUCED BY THE HISTORIC AMERICAN MERCHANT MARINE
SURVEY. (ACTUAL SIZE OF EACH 17’ X 23’.)
Smithsonian Report, 1938.—Taylor

WORKS PROGRESS ADMINISTRATION LENGTH -100.64 FT
BEAM = - 2750 FT
DEPTH - 7597.

me
ae ee
SULT AT
ManTTOWO® WIS L
isa

CLIPPER CITY

1. Schooner Clipper City, 1854. Sail plan.

WOTE THIS PLAN SHMUWS TYPICAL CONVERSION
OF SCOW SCMOONER'S FOR GENERAL

FREIGHT TRADE

PLATE 3

REGISTERED LENGTH «76.2 FT.

OUTBOARD PROFILC
sauce grr

WAME OF VemumL
UNDINE BUILT AT SAN FRANCISCO
13902

SOTONS NET Comersion to Gas Schooner

2. Scow schooner Undine, 1902. Outboard profile.

SPECIMEN DRAWINGS PRODUCED BY THE HISTORIC AMERICAN MERCHANT

MARINE SURVEY.

(ACTUAL SIZE OF EACH 17” X 23’.)
Smithsonian Report, 1938.—Taylor PLATE 4

1. Survey field workers aboard scow schooner at San Francisco.

2, Survey draftsman taking measurements of half model at Wilmington, Del.
Smithsonian Report, 1938.—Taylor PLATE 5

1. San Francisco Bay felucca. Old photograph made in 1889. (From Bureau of Fisheries.)

2. Head detail of four-masted schooner Commerce built at San Francisco in 1890.
Smithsonian Report, 1938.—Taylor PLATE 6

1. Illinois and Michigan canal barge City of Pekin, 1875. Old photograph.

2. Lakes steamer Sidney O. Neff, 1890. Originally a tow barge.
Smithsonian Report, 1938.—Taylor PLATE 7

—_

Sn ee

Re tl

|

he
Ba) oe

e "Cimy OF ORAND HAVEN”
BUILT 1972 BIXGRAND HAVEN, MICHIGAN

1. Lakes schooner City of Grand Haven, 1872.

2. Wisconsin logging bateau, about 1890. (Courtesy American Legion Logging Museum, Rhinelander,
Wis.)
“CORT “BEV ‘O[TGOPL ‘AOATY USI 1B WIN piw2bi74 ABMOOYS [IVSK{RIS °*Z “E261 ‘V8oq Yyooy 10 AysuIp esuods epol gy *T

8 ALV1d 1o]Ae ] —"9¢6| ‘J4odayy uUeruOsyyIUIG
Smithsonian Report, 1938.— Taylor PLATE 9

1. Oklawaha River (Florida) steamer Okahumkee built 1870. Abandoned on the river bank.

2. Chesapeake Bay bug-eye Edith F. Todd, 1902.
Smithsonian Report, 1938.—Taylor PLATE 10

1. Oyster sharpies hauled out at New Haven, 1891.

2. Hulk of the last Piscataqua River gundalow, the Fanny M, built in 1886. (Photograph made by Prof.
A. V. de Forest, 1925.)
Smithsonian Report, 1938.—Taylor PLATE 11

SKETCH SHOWING JOINTS FOR’D AND AFT
NOTE: THERE ARE AN UNUSUAL NUMBER OF SMALL PEICES IN THIS CANOE

e 3 4 5 VUNEVIUS. DEL.

WORKS PROGRESS ADMINISTRATION et oF vesee: HISTORIC AMERICAN
SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. LILIAN L. MERCHANT MARINE SURVEY
U8 NATIONAL MUBEUee swt Sor G svurrs

1. Details of logs and joints of Chesapeake log canoe of about 1898.

2. Lines of the clipper ship Sea Witch built 1846.

SPECIMEN DRAWINGS PRODUCED BY THE HISTORIC AMERICAN MERCHANT
MARINE SURVEY.

(Actual size of drawings, top 17” x 23”, bottom 17” x 36”.)
=

be

INDEX

A
Page

Abbot, Dr. Charles Greeley, secretary of the Institution__- iil Ix, 30; Xiil, v7,
8, 15, 27, 36, 38, 42, 47, 55, 65, 97, 100, 101, 103, 107, 111, 114, 120

Mibticghh Minna st oh oe Ses A tee oe Be a 121, 122
midiichabGwelsees ese 2 oo oe oN ee oe eee Ses xii, 99
JAOUS eros 5) 01%. 771 E770 a an Nae ce eae Se eee 120
American Histories! Asspciation, report. -...=..-.4.-2.-2..-._.=.2_=- 115, 119
Arnon, D. I., Hoagland, D. R., and (The water-culture method for growing
Te SIUC R61) AS ep A ee ee 461
Arthropods, The biology of light production in (Maluf)___.____________- 377
DIME NETS ARMM POISROR ole = Sa A ee ce 121, 122
EVER UIe STEN CEA ON ns RR SS ae See ee ee eee een 12
SUT LSC) Lise nme Na Decree et Re eh iets ed See eet 12
even brninnl Aoccryatry= so 2 2s eo ie bec oe oe 1,5
Te OG eee eee ey ee ee Oe SSeS Sa ee ee ee 99
SUD, yep ee ee tol de ee ee eee eS ee Oe ee xii
PERE Oy GC NOEEHL CENCtICS) 92.2 ee le eee eee eee cn 433
ROI reyes ds Leek a ee sb coke alee as ace cee 122
B
Peer e WLP PIs ry | oe kon ee ee Tee eee 121, 122
Bacon traveling scholarship, Walter Rathbone______.__.__-_--_-_-_--__- 11
UST ipa (Se 7? ai 1 a a a ae eet A a 121, 122
baraey ouster Adpen, W. (@regent) 03.2 eo eek eee Ixy 2 deo
IBArScOWRUNG WHECGErICHD) = 5- Sean 2 he en ee PAS Te,
RUE AIP IIUS ESET GOA apo ee Be ee cS A 13, 24
Bupa SE yh Si Habe eo! Wis CD Re a Or a ROS Pe Me REE 2 x, 13
LT 5 Sat AUD SBR E09) pe MN cr Be crn SOU ESS LS xi
Tewmetis Wy alsieset Nie 70. Dae ea hes ede lowe ses ed. lh hs aie 13, 23
Becker, Frances E. (See D’Amour, Fred E.)
pees ohne language of (von Frise) os. 2 423
EV elirappey SErchi na Gien ie is ayaa en ee ye emu ARN oe Ma alearia = A viaet boned xli, 3, 30
Belote: Mineod oreo ss) ee eee A ee ee aya pee Baye a ee xi
Tinencatuauern. Wo. (regent) taj see tin ee le a he AL 2,6
Bishop, Dr. Carl Whiting, associate in archeology, Freer Gallery of Art_-_- xii
(An ancient Chinese capital: Earthworks at old Ch‘ang-an)________-- 569
Wigeectt, Pa M5 (Cosmic radiation easels ube Si ee 2 eee 175
PCR OW OMIeE mara TunCHa PC: Py = yeast Jeeta Be eee oe get Wo Lae Aut
LE Rat SS ee hf a See ely Le a ee er ees oe 8
iboswell, Paige. (ihe floor of thevovean) 250 08S cena 275
Brooks, Charles F., and Thiessen, Alfred H. (The meteorology of great
fqooGs wrinercastern United States) 98 eee OL 325
Bruce, David K. E., vice president, National Gallery of Art____.______-- xii, 3
Hepmenc cme emel rE Tht) Lk ee Re I pe OA rd we ee 8
Bryant, H.S8., chief of correspondence and documents, National Museum _- xi
Bundy, John, superintendent, Freer Gallery of Art._._______-____------ xii
ree etre Ue Vitel ae hr eek RA Ge el xe AG

114728— 3941 601
602 INDEX

C

Page
Cantield collectiontiumd 222 322 2 se oe ee ee 2, 121, 122
Cannon, Representative Clarence (regent) _._........-.--------------- ixv
Csrey, Charles oo es oo So ee Oe a ee xi
Waser und, nbomagilee 4 oe se a gee see oe ee ee ee 121, 122
Cassedy; .Midwin Gans ek a Se ai ee ae Se xii, 54
Chamberiain.tund... rancis teas oo 5 5-22 i oe eo ee 2; AD, 2
Ch‘ang-an, earthworks at old: An ancient Chinese capital (Bishop) ____-_- 569
Change, A world of CW eldlein) _- 2" 5) se ee 2 ee ee ee 187
Chapin, Dr Md wardns 222) nes a ey ed. ee ee ee ee pad 5:
WhASes VAMOS Sete eee ta ee ae ene ge ed: 9 Se Eee ge 5a ee rae x
Chief Justice of the United States (chancellor and member of the Institu-

GIO TE) CR SOR eh 5 US A Ne a ee ot ee eee ee iby if
Chinese capital, An ancient: Earthworks at old Ch‘ang-an (Bishop)_______- 569
Gtlark,; Avistine Eis r O98 So Sor tS aes ee eee ee ee BL ee ee ee ee x13
Clark. Rela ol; “assistant slibranianss 22 ooo s. ee ee ee See eee xi
Clark heland: 2 \2tos) tt er ess 2 re a ane eee een aes xiii, 100, 106
@larke“Sendtor GimoreiDee ee eee 8
Cochran yr sD Oris eV sees ee ere ee x
Colling. sblenry” Bia des io es OR ar em ve ae Sen ee oe x, 26
Commerford, Lester E., assistant chief of correspondence and documents,

Nationale Mise writs es Sse oer Dy eee cea crenata ey xi
Compton. Drs Arthur Et @epent) so) 2s See oe ee ee 1b cap ae f
WOOpEr Wr CUStay. “Atiaure | Sie oe he ee ts hE seen ee eee xi, 2, 12, 24
Gorbin; ‘William Is., librarian of the Instibution 2262222220 22222222 ix, 114
Cosmicmradiation (Blackett) sea ee ee es ee iio
€xab, Chinese mitten, The.(Panning) 2-22 22 ee er poe 361
Cummings, Homer 8., Attorney General (member of the Institution) ____. ix
Cushman, Joseph A. (The future of paleontology) __._._._-_----------- 317

D
D’ Amour, Fred E., Becker, Frances E., and Van Riper, Waiker (The black

Wd GLO WARDIG ET) esa, recreate ee oe hae ete es ee ee ee 405
Daughters of the American Revolution, National Society of the, report__ 119
Davis, Frarvey INc regent). ase 13 Ul Beg Sh cog as fh Rg DP hs Rabe Pee IX V2
i DASH egaych cra s el @ ene eet antl Oy ae ee eee PE ie (Cate ry Ma eee COC SIE ek 12
Delano: wredenc.A; (resent) 22 22S. 2 kote oo ee ee bes
Dingle, H. (Science and the unobservable)_______....._._..._---------- 209
Doan, Charles Austin (Modern medicine—the crossroads of the social and

the: physi¢alsctences)22 4a 4 ha eee a eee ee 511
Dorsey, Harry W., administrative assistant to the secretary_________-_-- ix

Dorsey, Nicholas W., treasurer and disbursing agent of the Institution___ ix, xi
DuBridge, L. A. (Some aspects of nuclear physics of possible interest in

biolopicalawark):- S223.) =e ee ets ie a Be ee A ee ee 227
E

Hieetrantheory)(Kloeliter) = 26 2 95 oe Sere, 2 OPES, 5 ee ol 241
Hithnolo gy, Hs urea ofa Ameri ¢ airy eps pe ae 1, 2,4
NTs] Of 2 c\ eee tsetse tenets A en penne a PE eee LCN nO ea es eueateree eee 54
PuDMOR TIONG E tt thee ee ee ee eee a a he 53, 119
TEPOrt2ss 2 b= a be a ek op ee ae oe Soe Re ee 49
TSLIE Nd ree eRe ac eS ene ails AY eS tee Oe Sit eee ae ee ee xii
Exchange Service—Continued. Page
POWOm gets. Se See 35 ee Seer ese ee so euatsaekdiee st oe 57
ie ee 5 a ee oO eee cece ta ete steteeke teu xii

Hemloramans and: Geld) work... 25 0022 ei oe eee seh eb ee ide 12, 20

yes thatshine atmiphs (Walker)oe se. 22052) 22. eset ee 82d ode 349

F

Farley, James A., Postmaster General (member of the Institution) _______ ix

Finley, David E., director, National Gallery of Art__..-..-____-_____ xii, 3, 38

Flight, human, The natural limits to (Wimperis) - ...-....-....-.-__-.- 579

Floods in the Eastern United States, The meteorology of great (Brooks

Brin OR IALDLcs Seid roca Y= Se ee ee ON ce ee eS Seem 325
Folsom problem in American archeology, The (Roberts)__---_-----_---- 531
Horcereene pce CAUNtIN) "Se atene eee hoes eS Sel oars Pi Pe eee 433
is eae eit = 2 oe = ee ee ee tS sok ee ee xi
ere Tela Cle be. Se | eee ee eee ee ee a Ee 100, 103
reer nO nanleswioe: == = 6222 +: Se eeprom Se ee meee ere epere 123
MECoR Oe ailcty OlOALDL. £25 2 pee ee Saree On Noe ee amen ae 1,4

AIULETIC a CO Seema = Sk: |e Uno ne ame 2 ee ea ees oe ee 45
FEU CG ps i ak Ee eet Sage Re ae Sl a 123
IOCHUTCS ae ee = ee ee re ee Oe ee ee ee ee eee 46
LIF SY aS By esses ae a el ed REPRE pe A al ga alli te = ah ape RRO 112
Pe Ouse ee oo ee eee ae nes ae Reed Se eS 115
ee ee ree ee ee ee eee eee ees ee ae 43
eh Lee cre Pe ee ee ee ee ee ema xii
Paieoinitin ito Een peng... ae eres. aes eee a Oe a x
G

SEP oY SN S425 DIN 2s 62 co [ae a 2, a Pa NR DS ee yg ee xi

Garner, John N., Vice President of the United States (regent and member

Ofscheslnshtucion) 222 = 4 = oe eet ee ee See Oe ae Ein ix, 7
Gai O. he wise. * 2 >) een es en eects oon et ee SER oe, ee xi, 25
Geneuics i Orest (xUstii) 22 See was oo eee eee ae. Oras Te 433
Geology in national and everyday life (Mansfield)__._._._____________- 257
Gifford, Representative Charles L. (regent)_._._..............______-__- rear @
Cilbert. pe PAtkerest: 222 ~~. Sena AR eee Renee hin ber Se cu TT. FATE EE y! 3, 30
Gilssore. Caries Wee = eee em i Peale oes a, HPL Os
Goldsborough, Representative T. Alan (regent)_...__.._.____-_--__--_- bb wy f
Graf, John E., associate director, National Museum____________________ ix
ree nAtn ie ee ee. =~ 2 2 OR ee ER rele imyeiniw cn UO RD ETDS, 4! 24
Guest, Grace Dunham, assistant director, Freer Gallery of Art_._______- xii

H

IRE U RUG 2.052 eer tn sk ee eee delice Te aL ei aioe. 122

achenbert fund. . =~ 2.2 1.02 FOL ei). Pe. roa) ed ash, 122

Hall, Sir Daniel (Soil erosion: the growth of the desert in Africa and else-

WiTCTC) tie Bae ea ae ee ie ae en eile ee REE) Sp SE 303
amiltone find see) 0°: ee De peed Wat}. butt) ete 122
Harman Alaska Expedition, reports = s22< 2-2 i oe eee ee 115
Rina tOn sre sO est keene ee te ls a) i A ae ke xiio
SE MESEYGH Irs OTA pCR VELT GL oa) = Ae cg pel ge cn pg 0 xi L222
LSCEISViN a ISHELS = eee 5 Se ES. COL ORS VT amr Ys QOD NGmI NN SESE yEnT 9) ogee a > eee Se 122
DEUS SCTE SN cele 0] 2 ae a ee) 2 Ore” ye Rg ae ee 50, 55
Hil foamcs a4... property clerkeene seo. ee gs Bo ce ecko ix

Eyer nord. Vabpil non = eee eee sieht 121, 122
604 INDEX

Page
Historic American Merchant Marine Survey, The (Taylor)_.._-_______- 595
History and stratigraphy in the Valley of Mexico (Vaillant)_............ 521
Hitehcock Library: fund, ‘Dr.-AlbertS. 2. once ec be Ee ee 121
Hoagland, D. R., and Arnon, D. I. (The water-culture method of growing
plants without seo0il)s 3.225.222 cceei26- speek eet ee ee 461
Fodgking fund. pencral.. ¢ 2. os. ke Se. tee hee ee eee 122
SPS CLTUG As Se 55 Sa ah rh ied byes St mcg ied eh ceed Re pa 121, 122
Hoover, William Di. 2 208 2 eae ee ee ba xii, 5, 100, 101, 105, 106
Howard, DrcireOes Ast S80) oe cee pr ee ek ee eee x
irdliGkas MO rewAles ee oe ee aan ye a ee oe ee x, 13, 22
Hubble,-Edwin (The nature. of the mebulae)_..- -.2 222--22426-eeee eee 137
Hughes, Charles Evans, Chief Justice of the United States (chancellor and
TMEMMDSL Ole be Urns BUG 1 TN eee ee nea a bcp
hughes fusid (Braces. 22-2 o i Ve he oe eee Lee ee ell ek 122
Hull, Cordell, Secretary of State (member of the Institution)_.._..______- ix
Human flight, The natural limits to (Wimperis)_...........-.-------.. 579
I
Teetages (Sin pson) 2 tk ee koe ee a ee 2 te ae inet ee 289
Ickes, Harold L., Secretary of the Interior (member of the Institution) _-_- ix
International Hxchange Servieet. 2 2 08- o rae ee he or ee 1,4
52) 010) 5 Raml ek copay WAT ee rag aren a ls | We? mae eat aN Ge ME Dg Bh fey 57
eR: 252 SS ee IS AT Dh Soa ea aS oh oe oe xil
J
ol belio1jimd By gor 2101) bs tee eet Ce i eer ea eee we be Car et fe PRC teeM ye xiii, 105, 106
Sita) NCIS exe teeta Yale poe ke a ere ee a x
K
YEAH ey nl 8 Ko} ale | SC ON) De ae ae ee en es een eee ee ee Seas 8
ellogs, Ur. Remington) 22 oe ea en ee Se eae x
Ketchum, Miriam B., librarian, Bureau of American Ethnology_-_--_--- xii
Wall, swortiy Peo asa oe he = Oe ee ee eae x
Kloectiler, R., G: ‘(Plectron theory)... 2. o05- 28 oo ee 241
Jerieger Ulerberh Wss...cesiod = 2 oe eee os seen ate ee ees x, 15,24
L
Deora Pry MG ce kt et Rg eR re ae x
Bewtons Or. Prederre ke Wisco) See ite es ee eee ee eae xi
Libraries of the Institution and branches_...........---..-+--+-.--=<- 14
To) 9 (0) 0 Fe OP i ar SA ar SINE SER po, Sh pS ep eh ete 5 109
MUUIMIE AT VOT CCERRIOUSE 2 © se ice ee Se ee ay ee, See 112
Light production in arthropods, The biology of (Maluf)______---------- 377
Lodge, John Ellerton, director, Freer Gallery of Art____.----------- xii, 38, 47
Logan, Seater 7M; MA Gégentjicest 22 ee kil eee eel See ix, 7
Torney, cnsistus. (repent yol: a2. 274 oe. ee ee oa ee y Sr f
Louis-Jaray, Gabriel (New conceptions of the universe and of matter)... 129
M
Maidenhair tree, The story of the (Seward)_.__.---_------------------ 441

Maluf, N. S. Rustum (The biology of light production in arthropods)---. 377
INDEX 605

Page
Mann, Dr. William M., director, Nationai Zoological Park-_-_--_- X, xii, 13, 68, 97
Misti vird ss philatelist {eee Se ee 2 oe Set ee tees xi
Mansfield, George R. (Geology in national and everyday life)__.-_------ 257
Matter, Fransnruatation of (Rutherford): =--=s..+.s22-<.--+.----...52 201
ices Chien tee ooo... eee eee eet eee Sachets an SOY S
MINUS e JOkpa hei ll a 2 ee eee xiii, 105, 106
MeNary. senator Charles'd... (regent) =+ 202 oo eee SUE sb eof
Medicine, Modern—the crossroads of the social and the physical sciences
01) Gain) eee ae SO. ee eh te Pe Por oe oll
Mision err elOreht sn. > 2 Seger oe ee Sa esa ewe ee xiii, 106
ROR eyet TERE 2 = ee ee ert ee oe Seas I ee 1, 3, 29, 38
Mellon, Paul, president, National Gallery of Art___------------- xii, 3, 30, 36
Merchant Marine Survey, The Historic American (Taylor) __---------- 595
Perinat... (TePenil) . -seersene eo oe ee 84 Vf
Meteorology of great floods in the eastern United States, The (Brooks and
SIU DTESREN)) eee es 1 ee ee ene Oe ig ee ae ee ee 325
Mexico, the Valley of, History and stratigraphy in (Vaillant)__.-.__--- 521
Mensa eT eat. eee ee ae eee ae oa en ee xii, 4, 13, 50
RRO Ore ti: APS in, c ee oe eh Ot ee ae x12
RIE TRO TON A. — Se ee eee ce ae ee xi
OTE Eh 1 ae il 8 70, of a ge lei enc 101, 102
Peter ele my Aiton reP eM) 8 ee ie ne ee ee ee ee ix, 7
Morgenthau, Henry, Jr., Secretary of the Treasury (member of the
LOSSY LO cai ep Md =o ea Se age a ix
Reems Glan 2, (LeReUL) 2.2 oe eee eee a Ro ee ee ix, ¢
fever mind, watherine Walden. eter Sot otn oto Ste ee 4, 39, 122
N
Nettional-Callection of bine Artgeesen renee eo ee aby ale 3
SLUICE ATSCELOL 2 Te =. ete eee SOUT TL La MEE) os Se. 42
STPERIOTIS. HCE As oi. Seeger ee Oe Se ee ct eee eee 4,42
UIT) SFC a ek a el aon mm we a Mt ag on aa Oa 42, 112
PICAYUNE Sc «2S Rae ih a eR pd bo FEE aL, 42
Ranger fund purchases; Henry “Warde: 2- U2 22 8k Seek be ke 41
TED ORG es oe teen et 2 ee em nr pe toe A epee ge LT ed Se BY
PROMAItQery OL ATO. 22 jee eee ee mee ot ee ek ee ed iss
IC MISEL OTIS, COMMNILLEG. — tee ee ene ee Se eh ee er 30
PXCEULIVECOMMMILECE.. -. . eee eee one. se es 30
ROAHeeS COMMIBILLCE— — —. _ ... Saeenerens oe Y iaee eS 31
list of works of art deeded to National Gallery of Art June 24, 1937-_- 34
TLE) SO ot OR I Schl gl I eg lg 29
CS] LD a a rp RO oS os te eed aks ele le Bed ol See Oe ee xii
"EUS, 2 MI, 8 8 Fat i i aR ek ale AS A NC xii
Davonal Gallery of Art Commission 22: 2s kc Sate ee 38
National Geographic Society-Smithsonian Institution Expedition to the
[EO ST LG PES) eee lg RR Se cha ee 5, 13, 68
1 OTANI VU TDT lee 7S 21 ie mR Sc a ec Leg?!
Soret SCA... eee meen ey eet eee 26
CepOER MOMS ail El WOM ower ore (ee neta 2 ee 20
AOR RUGS aoe 2, 4 eee ee er PEON ee 26, 117
Rote ae ee ee a ce en eee “yah Perera SSeS + 17
SHU Sere = ee nee oe eee eM ays le ot Oo oS ix
606 INDEX

Page
National Zoological Park. io 22222422 = sa eeeS he ee ee 15
ACCESSIONS = 32.22 Senn Jase bee ae ee pee ae ee eee ee 70
animals int thereollection. June), 30 Osossee = ee ee ee 738
director. S22. 052 2222282355 Fas ee eee x; xi; 1S 685) 97
TEP ONG ee 67
Bia teen 8 he St as 28 Sh be Ses eee eee xii
WiISibOTS< 222 22.26 0s i2c25 25052822 ee ae eh es eee 70
Nebulae; The nature.of the (Hubble)= +2... -22+2.65+-22- 3-3-3545 137
Nuclear physics, Some aspects of, of possible interest in biological work
(iweridge). +... 5-25. =e a ee es Ae ee eee 227
O
OiBrien, (Dr: Brian 522 95- oe 8 oon ee ee ee ee 102
Ocean, ‘The floor of the: (Boswell)... 2.2 ..5_ =~ 22 a eee see PHD
Ochser; Paul H.,,editor, National Museum... .524=— 52-22. --2-2- += XI, olsen
Oliver, Lawrence L., property clerk, National Museum_--------------- xi
Olmsted. Dr Arthur Ji-228. = 323 he ee ge ee xi
Olmsted, Helen A., personnel officer of the Institution___.___._--__----- ix
P
Paleontology, he future of (Cushman) — ..--= ==.==- 4-2 s 2 se eee Sl 7/
Panning, A. (The Chinese mitten crab) 2--.=~- =2.- 22 2-2_ 32 ee 361
Parente 22 Sex ose oe Yih ee eee ee 122
PellktundComeliavhivaneston ss 29 a ee ee ee ree eee 122
Perkins, Frances, Secretary of Labor (member of the Institution) __------ ix
Perro. Watson Wi S= 2:5 oe eh es Se oe Se ee ee 12
Pislting; (unease. A. ee oe Oe Se ie eee ee Sees re oie ee xii
Physics, Some aspects of nuclear, of possible interest in biological work
(Dmprdbe)e S222 oe a a Se Bee eee ee 227
Plants without soil, The water-culture method for growing (Hoagland and
ANON) So eae Oe eo eR Bae ee eS ae ee 461
Pooreifund;-Lucy: T.,:and George. W 22.2. >... 4+>- 934.4222. 5-2 122
rice (wvaterhouse @ C0202 2s S258 (a ete eee eee 32, 33
Publications of the Institution and branches: ..—-2+ ...... 4... --» .==---~= 14
a8) 010 5 Pa es ee ee ee eee eee eS oe ee = 115
R
Radiation.and Organisms, Division Of. ==-= 2. - -sea2225250 522-2 1, 2, 6
TED OR bse eee Se iat ee Bh NS ae eee ae a le 105
FRE 8 ee ee MPG a Np he a Ue ee pee Ala xiii
radiation: Cosmic. UB INCKGUG)= 02-2. sun et aoe ka eee ee 175
naneer fund. purchases, Wenry Ward... oo ne he ae eee 41
Repents of tne InstruiMon, BOatd OF. 2-5 on. sean ea oe ee eee ix
@XECULLVERC OMIT UCC fe aaa ee ee eee a ix
J £5 8) jx, NR i RR SY ae TE RIN pS Sy OA RNS ol res AOS AI 121
RTE) a Pas ag ee a i ce ea Le PTE ip a PS x
Berd hand “Addison 2.2 hon seep a eee eee 2a 122
Research fund, Special: 2 ann 2 ot se ee ens a ea ee 122
Pesce ir, CiHanies lyse a eee eee ee eet eee xi, 12, 24
BD gVeYSVsye AUNT {0 Uae Ne ITA eae Nate ep NS RE Pag 16 hd EB Ue oe Beal te a RC 122

Riley. JW 2 5865s Sener oe Beas See ee eee ee eee x
INDEX 607

Page
PeOmen te win rai vel th. es, Sere AE ls xii, 4,13, 52,53
(The Folsom problem in American archeology) -------------------- 531
Renmson meciator soseph. i. \(rewentje 2-2 244 eaes 3-4 oot ena 2,6
fete Dine OMA. a. oS so ee ee Bee Sees Soa sheen otek 99, 122
TRY STD Ayieh te] DV vais bee: pee ee ey aac 20 a ke ieee eg a eee x
Proline find. Miriam cand, Wiliam eens ene oe Se oe esse ce 122
Roman Orient and the Far East, The (Seligman) -_--.------------------ 547
Roosevelt, Franklin D., President of the United States (member of the
AM StinUGiom) eee ea. ery a ee ee er eee eS ix
“Root-pressure’”’—-an unappreciated force in sap movement (White) ___-__- 489
Roper, Daniel C., Secretary of Commerce (member of the Institution) ___-__ ix
Rutherford, Lord (Transmutation of matter)_—.-..-..._........-...-_-- 201
5
SOULIPCYT GBT [pate ea Ds ne RM Ye en ee eee ee 122
Schiaicise Dre W aldol: = 25. J... eens meyers AE BA ee ae 5:6 ls"
Swlnelliva, J De, J beyonayh eo [il Se ee eee 0:4) PALS
Sciencerand the unobservable: (Dingle) eens. a2 a2 sal 222 Se eee ee 209
Searles, Stanley, editor, Bureau of American Ethnology_---_____----~----- xii, 53
Seligman, C. G. (The Roman Orient and the Far Hast)-_---__---------- 547
SZC I MeIITAUTD Kes ites ochre a. : aeRO eS eer oe ot ee OL x, 20; 21
Seward, Sir Albert C. (The story of the maidenhair tree) ._------------- 441
Shepard, Donald D., secretary and treasurer, National Gallery of Art__-_ xii, 3
SHOsmIUKer Clk ys tae ft oe a ee ee ens Dae Med ey = ee so Se me
Shoemaker, Coates W., chief clerk, International Exchange Service_-_---_- xii, 65
BiEnpson oir George: (lce apes) 2o2e seaman ee oe oe eek, eee eco Se 289
SHUTOIEEI AIMS: DEQUESLS—. - — seen ee eeee se See SS ek ee 6
Suvi Cy fee ry Ree Se) eS Rees rt Re ee ees. le art 6
SUIUNeonMian Anna reports: -. see eee ee ee a tT 115, 116
AGO OTENISSION.. = sc. = Soe ee ae eee ee We ak 3, 7, 38
Garscie med rand... aan eee oe ee Ok eS 1.3
CORUEISGiONssLO KNOWlEdRG 9 ete 2 ae oe eis a be 135
(ETBICG LOR UAV ESO HTH 0 Ye Caer NN itd ae a A a ee 121, 122
Reet Taya Toeenr he ori 5. Ae eee rere ere = 8S OR OI ert) os ee LS 37.
Institution exhibit at the Paris International Exposition, 1937____-_-- i
miscellaneous collections. — == =e eae ne ee ee 115
PACIOVO TORE =< <= 22. = a. See ee es Se = a oe BN 1,9
EpecialipubiCaALONS. 2 >>. ae eee nate ens ee mel ee Se 15; thy
Soil erosion: the growth of the desert in Africa and elsewhere (Hall) ------ 303
Spider, The black widow (D’Amour, Becker, and Van Riper) -.---------- 405
RICCO RNG se TANK Soci, ee EE ne RN AL 8 Tg eee 122
Stanley, W. M. (The reproduction of virus proteins) ._...-.------------ 499
StepbinssDredoel 3242.25)... Seen ee eeeare eA cee yeh been So) ee 99
Soemecccr on eaeconnand.:-_ “seen en eee ee a) in ee x
Stetson, Harlan T. (The sun and the atmosphere) ______-------------- 12, 149
be maint ee br echiilicon abi. ee). eee AU ON oe Si xii, 4, 53
REI WIRI RIDER rte San oc 3) Wnt ee a. ol eh x, 23
Stirling, Matthew W., chief, Bureau of American Ethnology--_----- xii, 4, 49, 55
rol LADEC TDL oP 0 4g Be ec tems” 10 20). ee a ae aD
Sunand the atmosphere, The (Stetson). = 222k te tee 149
Swanson, Claude A., Secretary of the Navy (member of the Institution) --- ix

FS CED Vey Re ee DY othe) (000 ol Sts es eae | eT a Sed ae SSE LB Spe ee xii, 4, 13, 49, 50
608 INDEX

EE Page
"Pawy Wor reir A oe i seh erence ae Se re eee xi
(The Historic American Merchant Marine Survey) _-_______-________ 595
Thiessen, Alfred H., Brooks, Charles F., and (The meteorology of great
Moods 1M whereastern- Umited: States) sea see eee seee Soe. eee ee 325
Tolman, Ruel P., acting director, National Collection of Fine Arts__ xi, xii, 38, 42
Trembly, R. H., superintendent of buildings and labor, National Museum_ xi
True, Webster:P., editor of the Imstituwen: 92 1 se4-2 os ee ees ix, 120
U
Universe and of matter, New conceptions of the (Louis-Jaray)_.________ 129
UWnobservable, the; Science and (Dimgle)_ 2 5 ae ke eee ee 209
V
Vaillant, George C. (History and stratigraphy in the Valley of Mexico)__.__ 521
Van Riper, Walker. (See D’Amour, Fred E.)

Virus proteins, The reproduction of (Stanley)... -.....>5. b22touJ_s22 2 499
von Friseh, Prof> i. (Phe danguage.of bees) sence as ee 423
WwW
Walcott fund, Charles: D iand/Mary Vaux 2. 3. = es ee eee 122
Walker, Ernest P., assistant director, National Zoological Park___._____-_ xii

(Hyves that shine at, Might) 5. Soest oe eee soe aoe eee 349
Wallace, Henry A., Secretary of Agriculture (member of the Institution) __ ix
Wrath: (Wallisinayietes vc 3s) ke bee eS ee ee se a ee xi
WVECEL, Tm VWALO Oya = 82 2 re he aa a eet tos Re a x, 13, 22
Weidlein:. Hdward R. (A-world of change) 0-2. S252 2 ee ee 187
Weintraik, OriiRobert leivuve’ <2 aes Ue ee eee ee eee 105
Wenley, Archibald G., associate in research, Freer Gallery of Art_____-_- xii
Wetmore, Dr. Alexander, assistant secretary of the Institution__________ 1X, x

12, 20, 24, 27, 111
White, Philip R. (‘‘Root-pressure”—an unappreciated force in sap move-

EYEE Ti Gs) tS pt ea NR a a 489
Winitebresd. (ruiaries. 5: Abo ies 22 ee eee oe ee xi
Wimperis, H. R. (The natural limits to human flight)_--_-_.------------ 579
Woodring, Henry Hines, Secretary of War (member of the Institution) __- ix
Wiorldiot change. A-(Wieidlem)). 223 2 <n. DS. as ee ee ee 187

x
Naeger! Wilts, G2 os ee oa oe ee ee eee en ee 127
Weeveria, Concwilliamy isso fo ee ee oe a ee 127
Younger. Helent Walcott. 2:00 S202 =e cee eee es se oe ees 122

Z
Zerbee, Prances*Brincklé= i 222 eae eS eee aS eee 122
Zoological Park, National: 22.5 9 se eon cee te ent De es 1,5
PUCCESSLO MIS 2 Cs eee i ee oly ae Ss re ce a ae 70
animals inet he CoOlecviOny wUNe oO, moa Gee eee sere ee oe ee 78
Girectoras cee ae ee a ek ete Pe ale i eee Cee x, xii, 13, 68, 97
Feport oe Set ee oe ee ne ee 2 ee eee 67
stati oo Ue Se ee Se I ee eee ee xii
VISIGO RS 2 se A age ee etree ea 70
ll

3 9088 01

Hn gi
; a : “a @ @ a ee ee ew x k* * & » Ss a! Ph ee ie
die pis sd dd ala dda a a eg na
xa fe ee oe ae a a a aa a8 ate he ee
yp fateearatetatetetscatctereeschaneurnraces
Pasasatatate 5" ANP TT

a % é 2
| fe ee Se
a <9 ras ata

‘4

+ a
e ae om *? ¥, 1 m, ‘a a aS % 4
i a 7 ot = a “— #3 ~ as tee 4
| Pee <a Se
| bears onan Sa ata atta
ec i oa aa ia ee <6 a ik oh
datatatatata® wig at aha oan Ree
fae eek as
ms i di ae
a) 4 RE
3 « .* x

a
rah :

ra "as
. r
ie eek Lee
i a *
oan ¥ Ad utes as iat > saat
ok at A <—e
4

ae,

aa
“a
*: 4
Hat" C3 ‘<a tetas teha® PM a ae ie ab a
y a A a Oey
| Oox ak ata as Ki a, > “ 2 oe ‘sk i 2 ‘i x
* ORC He A OH we ow . 3 a a i % fh
ti ‘3 a 3 r Het eS ew a « s i x3 4 % ‘te | et fe “7 7
fa a ‘a's oe é a & date c ey * © _: “t »” “e * ‘a ‘“
aa % . ot e* 4 5 [ +7. ee ae
feet hae ah a ey ** s € e6 « « hgh ae a
EAA EE eH GH -) ct ee hy i“! ‘ ef Ye se
i440 ate 6 ae o ee hoe oe MM ig %
ca to ita ah ee ee we « é
‘ ‘) i oY _.. & wet _— ee. oh

a 8
ae
FP

ae

fas

agate da Qt a a @
2 se 3 _& on et as a & a Oe AF,
ime | o @ « FF 4 . ¥ = = a Be a GP
a *. ie és ss A & ‘ Oy oe a a a ae ee a we ee

Le & eh as i? at a & © > BR a me We
és ait ead tet ae ai Be Bt my a as i
: a a a a a a a a a w@ © @ BS a me ae ye
a et eS ea a a eg a @ Gr wk we we Bi
; € OS @ Op QS me as

ae “| “ee “ab co io
— NS a Co. we ah a
7 ‘ee i ee ae
as .

) i a @ Di ay a: a. i: af a i *

Ts & & a & a a} “a al

| ee ee ee ee ee

1a eee ge ae | wl «. 3: ae 2 : ‘« * by a ry a
2 Be a Bi. 4 1 a 8 c3 c o 7

fs 2052 2M: ‘s. ea e “ ox a ae i we

he Et ee ee we ee
ee ta £€ad diag e ee a we a a ‘“ ‘6 ao ee ae a fi “y*- @
SAYS a SO ey yO oS Ee OS OL Oe Oe

ae my a J
—
—
—

_ _ —

: — ne
ro ©
' :
.
-
- = :
=
‘
\
4
y “
“
- ‘
s
~ b
e
= < —
ae ~ -
‘ ~ :
ae ine ~ “
: ue
; ‘, , -
= “ i ;
" F “p A e
A ha cd
4 3% - is
a
- ’ :
5
aa it —
. hs x
- eee Sy i « e
N 4 - 4 " . we
is ‘ si j aM 7 s ad 1) . 44
£ Z 2 v § : i
a ~ a < + a ie ¥ os S ” 2

“ ‘ . t ‘ . = oF st Bi “3 i

. i : - ~

‘ ¥
~ - P . k “Ns y 5 ‘ “sf = ‘:
4 7 i - a %
- - . 4
oe : 2 * i
i s . rr $ “ »
ee % rc}
x a are —* _ he = : ;
— _— : . a b-
se ‘
y iy =| we —<; coat ‘ a
= _— pamerets : % y
3 4 A — .
ane --- - > 4 »
‘
+ ,
MN . ~ ¥ + =
~ ‘ , ,
zi ¥ , 2

“A ss

uf
