Neen!

3"

The United States

National Museum

Annual Report for the Year Ended
June 30, 1957

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION
Untrep States Nationat Museum,
Unper Drrecrion or THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION,
Washington, D. C., August 15,1957.
Sir: I have the honor to submit herewith a report upon the present
condition of the United States National Museum and upon the work
accomplished in its various departments during the fiscal year ended
June 30, 1957.
Very respectfully,
REMINGTON KELLoee,
Director, U.S. National Museum.
Dr. Leonarp CaRMICHAEL,

Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.

Ir
June 30, 1957
Scientific Staff

Director: Remington Kellogg
Assistant Director: Frank A. Taylor
Registrar: Helena M. Weiss
Office of Exhibits: Frank A. Taylor, Chief

John H. Anglim, chief exhibits specialist; William L. Brown, chief zoological
exhibits specialist ; Rolland O. Hower, Benjamin W. Lawless, exhibits specialists

Museum of History and Technology

Frank A. Taylor, in charge of planning; John C. Ewers, planning officer ;
William EH. Boyle, administrative assistant

Department of Anthropology: Frank M. Setzler, head curator
A. Joseph Andrews, exhibits specialist

ARCHEOLOGY: Waldo R. Wedel, curator
Clifford Evans, Jr., associate curator
PuHysicaL ANTHROPOLOGY: T. Dale
Stewart, curator
Marshall T. Newman, associate cura-
tor
ETHNOLOGY: Herbert W. Krieger, cura-
tor

C. Malcolm Watkins, associate cura-
tor

Saul H. Riesenberg, associate curator

Robert A. Elder, Jr., assistant curator

G. Carroll Lindsay, assistant curator

Rodris C. Roth, assistant curator

Department of Zoology: Waldo L. Schmitt, head curator

MAMMALS: David H. Johnson, curator
Henry W. Setzer, associate curator
Charles O. Handley, Jr., associate

eurator

Birps: Herbert Friedmann, curator
Herbert G. Deignan, associate curator

REPTILES AND AMPHIBIANS: Doris M.
Cochran, curator

FisHes: Leonard P. Schultz, curator
Hrnest A. Lachner, associate curator
William R. Taylor, associate curator

MoriusKs: Harald A. Rehder, curator
Joseph P. BE. Morrison, associate cu-

rator -

Insects: J. F. Gates Clarke, curator
Oscar L. Cartwright, associate cura-
tor
William D. Field, associate curator
Grace EH. Glance, associate curator
Ralph EH. Crabill, Jr., associate cu-
rator
Sophy Parfin, junior entomologist
MARINE INVERTEBRATES: Fenner A.
Chace, Jr., curator

Frederick M. Bayer, associate cu-
rator

Thomas E. Bowman, associate cura-
tor

Charles E. Cutress, Jr., associate
curator
Department of Botany: Jason R. Swallen, head curator

PHANEROGAMS: B. Smith,
curator

Hmery C. Leonard, associate curator

Egbert H. Walker, associate curator

Velva EK. Rudd, associate curator

Richard 8S. Cowan, associate curator

Lyman

GRASSES: Jason R. Swallen, curator
Ferns: Conrad V. Morton, curator
CRYPTOGAMS: Conrad V. Morton, acting
curator
Paul S. Conger, associate curator
Mason HE. Hale, associate curator

Department of Geology: Gustav A. Cooper, head curator

James H. Benn, museum geologist

MINERALOGY AND PETROLOGY: George S.
Switzer, acting curator
Edward P. Henderson, associate cu-
rator
VERTEBRATE PALEONTOLOGY :
Gazin, curator
David H. Dunkle, associate curator
Franklin L. Pearce, exhibits specialist

C. Lewis

Department of Engineering and

INVERTEBRATE PALEONTOLOGY AND PALEO-
BOTANY: Gustav A. Cooper, curator
Alfred R. Loeblich, Jr., associate cu-
rator
David Nicol, associate curator
Porter M. Kier, associate curator

Industries: Robert P. Multhauf,

head curator

ENGINEERING: Robert B. Woodbury, cu-
rator; in charge of Sections of Civil
and Mechanical Engineering

Kenneth M. Perry, associate curator,
Section of Marine Transportation

Edwin A. Battison, associate curator,
Section of Light Machinery

W. James King, associate curator,
Section of Electricity

GrAapHic Arts: Jacob Kainen, curator

Alexander J. Wedderburn, Jr., associ-

ate curator, Section of Photography

Department of History: Mendel

NAVAL HIsTory :
curator
Minirary Hisrory: Edgar M. Howell,

acting curator
J. Russell Sirlouis, assistant curator
Craddock R. Goins, Jr., assistant cu-
rator
NUMISMATICS: Vladimir
nelli, curator

Mendel L. Peterson,

Clain-Stefa-

IV

CRAFTS AND INDUSTRIES: William N.
Watkins, curator; in charge of
Section of Wood Technology

Edward C. Kendall, associate cura-
tor, Section of Agricultural Indus-
tries

Grace L. Rogers, associate curator,
Section of Textiles

INDUSTRIAL COOPERATION :
Bishop, curator

MEDICINE AND PUBLIC HEALTH: George
B. Griffenhagen, curator

Philip W.

L. Peterson, acting head curator

Civit History: Mrs. Margaret Brown
Klapthor, associate curator
Charles G. Dorman, assistant curator
Mrs. Anne W. Murray, assistant cu-
rator
PHILATELY : Franklin R. Bruns, Jr., cu-
rator
Francis J. McCall, assistant curator
Honorary Scientific Staff

Smithsonian fellows, collaborators, associates, custodians of collections,
and honorary curators

Anthropology
Mrs. Arthur M. Greenwood, Anthro- Thomas W. McKern, Physical Anthro-
pology pology
Neil M. Judd, Anthropology W. W. Taylor, Jr., Anthropology
Betty J. Meggers, Archeology W. J. Tobin, Physical Anthropology
Zoology
Paul Bartsch, Mollusks Carl I’. W. Muesebeck, Insects
L. L. Buchanan, Coleoptera Benjamin Schwartz, Helminthology
M. A. Carriker, Insects Mrs. Harriet Richardson Searle, Marine
D. C. Graham, Biology Invertebrates
Charles T. Greene, Diptera C. R. Shoemaker, Zoology
A. Brazier Howell, Mammals R. E. Snodgrass, Insects
W. L. Jellison, Insects Alexander Wetmore, Birds
W.M. Mann, Hymenoptera Mrs. Mildred Stratton Wilson, Copepod
J. Percy Moore, Marine Invertebrates Crustacea
Botany
Agnes Chase, Grasses Floyd A. McClure, Grasses
Ellsworth P. Killip, Phanerogams John A. Stevenson, Fungi
Geology
Ray S. Bassler, Paleontology Helen N. Loeblich, Invertebrate Paleon-
Roland W. Brown, Paleobotany tology
Preston Cloud, Invertebrate Paleon- John B. Reeside, Jr., Invertebrate Pale-
tology ontology

J. Brookes Knight, Invertebrate Pale- W.T. Schaller, Mineralogy
ontology

Engineering and Industries

I. L. Lewton, Crafts and Industries

History

Elmer C. Herber, History Paul A. Straub, Numismatics
Carroll Quigley, History

Vv
Contents

ENT O DIU CAM O Niece ec cies ey che ae ce Ss ee) SRD cary 2 3
i Dora sO USeneN ae eres Nets Pee reINe aa rent on, ne Eaten a So ano DRM InG eC o. é 6 5
ACCESSIONS .. . el ME ae RT Oe ae ee LIOR AE Sy. 24
CARE OF ConmcHnONe 2 BS ca nn Des Aine on en SOE a 35
AAR GATTOMN AR) IRISIARXOIE G5 6 6 5 0 0 6 0 6 6 b 0 @ 0 6 8 0 6 44
AmPirepologiys eht a Us See EMO yi tog tke ee ae Eas ee 44
LO Olo cysts! re LRT ES Ney eo PE AGT eee ee 49
BO GAMY =: ese. ese ee ee ca ine) a ae 57
Geologya-men eae Be EPR! OE at ey ig ay ey ae 59
Engineering and Irndinstistos Ba aA ens Peuterion Bead oo Oa =“ 64
ELIS COR yearly Le PUREE SOR Re IEF ae LI TS aL at ere 66
PUBLICATIONS .. . Be oi seed cet Ay) he A Nc 69
DONORS TO THE Nf AcmOReATE @oursomons Leake pare ser ag aT RSNA OS cre a 81

VI
Annual Report of
the Director

United States National Museum
Introduction

Planning by the Museum staff for the interior of the new Museum
of History and Technology proceeded uninterruptedly through the
year, and the design of its halls and exhibits constituted a large part
of the work of the exhibits staff.

John C. Ewers, ethnologist and planning officer, is directing this
work, in which the curators and exhibits designers, working together,
thus far have produced detailed descriptions and tentative hall de-
signs for nearly half the exhibition halls the building will contain.
Thus, as soon as the dimensions and locations of exhibition halls are
determined by the architects, construction of the exhibits can begin,
so that they will be ready for installation soon after the building
is completed. John H. Morrissey, now chief of an architectural unit
of the Public Buildings Service of the General Services Administra-
tion, has been a helpful liaison between that agency and the Smith-
sonian Institution on the design of the new building and a valued
adviser on the planning of exhibits.

The architectural firm of McKim, Mead & White completed the
studies for the exterior design of the Museum of History and Tech-
nology building and submitted diagrammatic plans. The Joint Con-
gressional Committee on construction of this building accepted the de-
sign recommended by the architectural firm and so advised the Regents
of the Smithsonian Institution. Detailed estimates by the architects
and the Public Buildings Service of the construction costs of a build-
ing conforming to these diagrammatic plans indicated that the appro-
priated funds would not be sufficient for a building of the contem-
plated dimensions. This development was brought to the attention
of the Joint Congressional Committee and the Board of Regents.

A Museum staff committee reviewed the estimated facilities and
equipment required by the scientific and service divisions in the pro-
posed additions to the Natural History Building. Funds for planning
the additions, including the preparation of working drawings and
specifications, were appropriated by Congress at the close of the fiscal
year.
Funds Allotted

From the funds appropriated by Congress to carry on the operations
of the Smithsonian Institution and its bureaus during the fiscal year
1957, the sum of $1,767,760 was obligated by the United States Na-
tional Museum for the preservation, increase, and study of the Na-
tional collections of anthropological, zoological, botanical, and geo-
logical materials, as well as materials illustrative of engineering,
industry, graphic arts, and history (this amount includes sums ex-
pended for the program of exhibits modernization).

A
Exhibits

During the fourth year of the continuing program for the moderni-
zation of exhibits at the Smithsonian Institution, a hall depicting
everyday life in early America, one illustrating the history of power
machinery, and the final section of the hall displaying large mammals
of North America were opened to the public. With these, the total
of completed halls reached eight. The variety of subject matter now
encompassed in the renovated halls exceeds the scope of most museums.
Public response to these new exhibits continued to increase during the
year and the informed comment on their effectiveness was generous
and encouraging.

Dr. Herbert Friedmann continues as chairman of the exhibits com-
mittee, which provides over-all coordination and supervision of the
renovation program being carried out by John EK. Anglim, chief ex-
hibits specialist, and William L. Brown, chief taxidermy exhibits
specialist. Benjamin Lawless and Rolland O. Hower are exhibits
specialists in charge of major elements of the program. Eugene E.
Witherell, acting director of the architectural and structural division
of the Public Buildings Service of the General Services Administra-
tion, and Harry T. Wooley, design architect of that agency, have con-
tributed substantially to the designs of the halls. In this work the
scientific staff prepare the original narrative scripts, select the objects,
write the captions, and consult with the exhibits designers and pre-
parators on the arrangement of the objects and the use of the drawings,
paintings, and other graphical aids required to communicate their
ideas to the viewers.

The curators of the National Museum have a twofold objective in
planning their halls and exhibits: to give the museum visitor the ex-
perience of viewing objects of significant historical or scientific in-
terest and rarity; and to show these objects in exhibits so effectively
explanatory that they increase the visitor’s knowledge, not only of the
object, but also of the history, science, technology, or art to which the
object relates. The attainment of this objective and the authenticity,
scholarship, and factual content which distinguish the exhibits reflect
the devoted and time-consuming work of the many busy scientists and
historians of the curatorial staff.

Procedures for planning halls for the Museum of History and Tech-
nology are based on those tested in the modernization program. The
curator prepares an outline of the subject matter to be interpreted, list-
ing the number, types, and sizes of exhibit units required to present

4)
6 U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1957

this subject to the public by museum methods. He executes a rough
floor plan and suggests the logical order of the exhibits in the series.
His recommendations are reviewed by the planning officer, the liaison
architect, and the exhibits specialists. Both the practical and esthetic
problems involved in interpreting the subject through exhibits are
discussed in conferences with the assigned designer, who prepares a
preliminary hall design with a floor plan and elevations.

The curators have completed scripts for 25 halls. These include
military history, heraldry and ordnance, underwater exploration, pres-
idential history, colonial American furnishings, 19th-century Ameri-
can furnishings, philately, postal history, numismatics, heating and
lighting, beginnings of textiles, history of motion pictures and appli-
cations of photography, pharmaceutical history, physics and
astronomy, power, tools, light machinery, and an introductory series
of 8 halls interpreting the growth of the United States. The designers
completed preliminary designs for 21 halls.

Anthropology

On January 26, 1957, in the presence of more than 800 guests, Sec-
retary Leonard Carmichael and Mrs. Arthur M. Greenwood, Fellow

os | %

NEG. 44179-A

Everyday Life in Early America: Kitchen of late |7th-century Massachusetts
Bay Colony house re-erected in hall. House and furnishings from Greenwood

gift.
EXHIBITS 7

NEG. 44179-F
Everyday Life in Early America: Background of this interior, ca. 1720, in-

cluding India-red-stained featheredge sheathing, was assembled from old
materials. Furnishings from Greenwood gift.

Everyday Life in Early America: Pine-paneled parlor of Reuben Bliss House,
Springfield, Massachusetts, ca. 1754. gift of Gertrude D. Webster.  Furnish-
ings from Greenwood gift. Detail of viewing alcove seen at right, with
part of overhead light source.

NEG. 44599-C

8 U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1957

of the Smithsonian Institution, opened the hall of everyday life in
early America. This hall, by means of authentic home furnishings,
tools, and other objects, illustrates the various European origins of the
early settlers; their housing, trapping, and planting; their trade with
the Indians, their domestic and community life; their arts and crafts;
and the life of the child. In more than 50 exhibits, objects and
graphics are combined to illustrate the basic concerns of the settlers.
Interspersed with the topical exhibits are an entire 17th-century
Massachusetts Bay Colony house, the gift of Mrs. Greenwood; three
18th-century rooms; an early 19th-century bedroom; and a New Eng-
land schoolroom equipped with original desks and benches saved by
Mrs. Greenwood from old schoolhouses.

This hall, the first in the National Museum to be devoted to cultural
history, is unusual, if not unique, in relating many elements of the life
of a period by combining narrative topical exhibits with interiors and
displays of selected collections of antiquarian treasures. It was
planned by Associate Curator C. Malcolm Watkins in close cooperation
with Exhibits Chief John E. Anglim and the architects of the Public
Buildings Service. Individual cases and displays were prepared by
artists of the exhibits laboratory under the supervision of Rolland O.
Hower. Most helpful assistance was given by Mrs. Greenwood

NEG. 44599

Everyday Life in Early America: Varied ceiling heights, and bays, alcoves,
and foyer areas give change of pace, stimulate interest. Viewing alcove
for period room at right.
EXHIBITS 9

- RENO 3 "NEG. 44162
Everyday Life in Early America: This case of common glassware—bottles
and "off-hand" glass—is lighted from back, through ground-glass screen.
Silhouette stands behind.
Everyday Life in Early America: Modern abstract design used to display ob-

jects of antiquity. NEG. 44388-A

or meee

PIMA IMIR. MINS
: LPs

x om
rare ae Sense ae et seme! et

Baot anther wark, severe Goht: Iialad meorates, and

seopendk ance reade simulating stich usiceral it the

Ralanite: eer Sehks were xotiames eR minal hae

sire ebbieatc Revenge: wrk Ukpemed fr che sinneat

Tae te weese comes OF valage socks! Hie

Hers, Ke cider, eas

nie at tan. Keene Barked

veomec ot Virgioiare os 1620. PTive poorer want now thaiy Bee
mith medawes wed bran; wat Indian come madset with dying
4 tele: path penimmcen deed in & cae anc baer”
Nearly ceeryuss, Rem atihncy to Seach. cbysink haut cident
neraks, wecidings vestry ssectinegs, or bart-naengs

nil wats

> meadsinre Ugur as were
10 U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1957

NEG. 44389-M
Everyday Life in Early America: Pennsylvania "Dutch" folk art. The decora-

tive devices are copied from folk art motifs. Red barn boards at left show
so-called "hex'' symbols.

Everyday Life in Early America: Play dolls lent by Mrs. Arthur M. Green-
wood. Verse is from Lydia Taylor's poems for children, written about 1800.
NEG. 44161-B

: ay
a8
natn my dall in clothes J
Ang ight mao pretty how © teh
Minster all | ha to 38
Wy

Feat:

EXHIBITS

Everyday Life in Early America: To represent a
New England school of about 1620, furnishings
from the Greenwood gift are arranged in an
interior constructed of old woodwork.

whose intimate knowledge of her own ex-
tensive gifts contributed greatly to the
success of the project. Erection of the
17th-century Bay Colony House and
structural installation of the period rooms
were by George H. Watson, specialist in
colonial house restorations, and his staff.
The preparation of specimens for exhibi-
tion was under the direction of Assistant
Curator G. Carroll Lindsay, assisted by
Museum Aide Ulysses G. Lyon. Research
in the furnishings used in the period
rooms was performed by Assistant Cu-
rator Rodris C. Roth.

Construction of cases and fixtures be-
gan in the second of two halls on the

Wooden cigar-store Indian, gift of Mrs. Merri-

weather Post, wears painted green smock, red

sash, and yellow, blue, green, and brown

feather headdress. Made in New York City,

ca. 1860-70. NEG. 44388-H
437255—57——2

NHG. 44599-H

12 U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1957

NBG. 44389-G

Everyday Life in Early America: New England silver against a background
of mahogany. Labels are silk-screened in white on plexiglas.

Everyday Life in Early America: Woodwork in this Sussex, Virginia, parlor,
dates from about 1770. Furnished in manner of late 1700's.

NEG. 44599—-F

EXHIBITS 13

American Indian in March 1957. The overall plans for this hall
were prepared by John C. Ewers in collaboration with John E.
Anglim, and the construction of exhibits was under the supervision of
Rolland O. Hower. Figures for a new miniature diorama of a Black-
foot Indian buffalo drive were made and sculptured figures of life-size
ethnic groups were restored in the anthropological laboratory by A.
Joseph Andrews.

Two Egyptian bull mummies were exhibited near the Ptolemaic
mummy in the hall of Old World archeology, where they have proved
of unusual interest to school children. Temporary revision of a few
exhibits was made in the North American archeology halls, and tenta-
tive plans for modernization of these two halls were completed.

Zoology

The final four habitat groups in the hall of North American mam-
mals were presented to the public April 30 in a brief ceremony at which
the zoological work of the Smithsonian Institution was reviewed.
The hall now displays twelve native mammals important to the Amer-
ican pioneer. To the lifelike groups already on display—caribou,

Rocky Mountain wapiti, or American elk, Cervus canadensis nelsoni Bailey
in the Gallatin Range, Yellowstone National Park, during late autumn breed-
ing season. First snow of winter blankets spruce forest that typically sur-
rounds mountain meadows where these elks spend most of year. Specimens
mounted by James L. Clark. Background painted by Robert E. Hogue.

NEG. 44698—C

14 U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1957

moose, big-horn sheep, Rocky Mountain goat, white-tailed deer, prong-
horn antelope, wolf, and puma—were added groups of wapiti, black
bear, grizzly bear, and American bison—all in faithful reproductions
of their natural habitats.

Work began on the earliest of these groups when Dr. Remington
Kellogg was curator of mammals. He and the present curator, Dr.
David H. Johnson, directed the final phase of the work, which was
executed under the supervision of William LL. Brown, chief taxi-
dermist. Charles R. Aschemeier, Norman N. Deaton, and Watson M.
Perrygo prepared the mounts, mounted the skins, reproduced the

NEG. 44698—A

Female grizzly bear, Ursus horribilis Ord, with partly grown cubs turning
over rocks in search of Columbian ground squirrels in Logan Pass, above
6,000 feet elevation, in Glacier National Park, Montana. Stunted alpine
firs and white-bark pines form a dwarf forest at this elevation. Bears from
National Park Service. Background painted by Jay H. Matternes.

NEG. 44698 >
Mother and twin cubs of eastern black bear Evarctos americanus americanus
Pallas, shown in early spring soon after leaving their den in the Allegheny
Mountains, on Tonoloway Creek, Fulton County, Pennsylvania. Mixed forest
of conifers and hardwoods, with shrubby undergrowth of rhododendron, wil-
low, and hazel, provides typical habitat. Birds shown are blue jay and
hairy woodpecker. Bears presented by Pennsylvania Game Commission.
EXHIBITS 15

NEG. 44698-B
Plains bison, or American buffalo, Bison bison bison (Linnaeus), crossing
badlands area in Slope County, western North Dakota. Typical plains ani-
mals associated with bison and shown with group are prairie dog, cowbird,
and black-billed magpie. Specimens from U. S. Fish and Wildlife Service.
Background painted by Jay H. Matternes.

16 U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL’ REPORT, 1957

accessory plant and ground material, and installed the groups. The
backgrounds of the latest groups were painted by Robert Hogue,
John Kucera, and J. H. Matternes.

Detailed plans for the two halls of the “World of Mammals” were
carried forward by Associate Curator Henry W. Setzer, who com-
pleted the final scripts for 20 of the 60 displays to be constructed for
these halls, and by Thomas G. Baker, exhibits designer. The large
central hall of the west wing of the Museum was closed for the re-
moval of the old mammal habitat groups, and progress was made with
plans for the proposed “Hall of Marine Life” which will eventually
occupy that area.

Geology

Under the direction of Head Curator G. A. Cooper and Associate
Curator D. H. Dunkle, plans for the hall of invertebrate paleontology
and the hall of fossil fishes and amphibians were completed by the
designer William D. Crockett, who also prepared tentative plans for
the hall of fossil mammals for Curator C. L. Gazin.

The hall of invertebrate paleontology will include a series of dio-
ramas of fossil marine life. Two of these were completed during the
year by George Marchand, creator of natural science exhibits. One
shows a Middle Cambrian sea-bottom of British Columbia in which
sponges and seaweed provide the setting for trilobites, worms, and
other arthropods. The other dicrama reproduces a sea-bottom of the
Permian of West Texas, in which a patch reef of algae is overgrown
by bizarre brachiopods, while nautiloid cephalopods seek their prey
along the bottom. Many of the restorations of the fossil animals in
these dioramas are based on specimens in the national collections and
on the scientific studies of Dr. Cooper.

Plans for the hall of fossil fishes and amphibians were revised to
accommodate new material obtained by Dr. Dunkle during his recent
European trip.

In the paleontology laboratory good progress was made in the
preparation of fossils for exhibition. Those completed include the
difficult skeletons of primitive Permian reptiles Seymouria, Labi-
dosaurus, and Diadectes and the Devonian fishes Drepanaspis, Bothri-
olepis,and Gemuendina. Work progressed on mounts of the Devonian
fish Dinichthys, the Cretaceous teleostean fish Xiphactinus, which is
16 feet long, and the Permian “horned” amphibian Diplocaulus..

A part of the popular gem collection is being temporarily exhibited
near the rotunda while construction of the new gem and mineral hall,
begun in February 1957, is in progress.
EXHIBITS 17

Norman N. Deaton, taxidermist, completed restorations of various
fossil fishes and tetropods and is casting plants for a Permo-Carbon-
iferous life group, the molds of which were lent by the Carnegie
Museum of Pittsburgh.

Loan exhibits were sent to several societies during the year including
the Eastern Federation of Mineralogical Societies annual meeting in
Baltimore, Md.; the Northwest Federation of Mineralogical Societies,
Eugene, Oreg.; the Midwest Federation of Mineralogical Societies, St.
Paul, Minn.; and the Idaho Gem Club, Boise, Idaho.

Engineering and Industries

The first hall-size exhibit renovation in the department of engineer-
ing and industries was completed with the opening of the hall of power
machinery on March 27, 1957. Moving engines and models, murals,
and scores of diagrams and schematic mechanisms narrate the develop-
ment from primitive wind- and water-powered machines to the gas
turbine, with graphic representations of the scientific discoveries which
furthered this progress. Original machines and patent models illus-
trate the work of engineers and inventors such as Stevens, Corliss,
Otto, and Deisel. Head Curator Robert P. Multhauf prepared the
script and the initial floor plan for the hall. The original architectural
design by Benjamin W. Lawless was developed with the aid of C.
David Persina, then of the Public Buildings Service. Bright N.
Springman was the exhibits designer and Mr. Lawless had overall
supervision of the work.

Secretary Carmichael and Dr. Melville Bell Grosvenor, president of
the National Geographic Society and grandson of Alexander Graham
Bell, opened an exhibit illustrating the invention and development of
the telephone. The exhibit describes the evolution of the telephone
and shows the equipment required to create the modern telephone sys-
tem, including the switching mechanisms required to select circuits
and connect a pair of telephones from the millions of circuits in the
system, the boosting of the signal current over long lines, and the
multiplying of the message carrying capacities of various types of
circuits. The potential importance of the transistor is described and
an operable exhibit of the solar battery is included. Dr. Robert P.
Multhauf planned the content of the exhibit, which was designed by
Smithsonian and Bell Telephone Laboratories personnel. It was pro-
duced and presented by the Bell System and the independent telephone
industry.

In the section of photography, exhibits on camera lenses, instan-
taneous photography, and camera shutters were designed and installed
by Fuller Griffith. These completed the refurbishing of the photog-
18 U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1957

raphy gallery, which combines exhibits on the history of photography
and the camera with a photographic print salon for special showings
of the work of present-day photographers. Alexander J. Wedder-
burn, Jr., is the associate curator in charge.

Work began on the renovation of the graphic arts exhibits illus-
trating the history and methods of fine printmaking. Jacob Kainen,
curator, prepared the script and Mr. Springman is the exhibits de-
signer in charge.

SPECIAL EXHIBITS—DIVISION OF GRAPHIC ARTS

GRAPHIC ARTS

Selected prints from the
collection

Prints by George O.
(Pop) Hart

National Print Collec-
tion

Martin H. Miller

National Photographic
Society

Harvey Croze
Paul Ehrlich

30 etchings and litho-
graphs

PHOTOGRAPHY
50 pictorial photographs

50 pictorial photographs

33 monochrome prints
and 80 color trans-
parencies

53 pictorial prints

46 pictorial prints

March 195 6—February
1957
March—May 1957

July—August 1956

September—October 1956
November-December
1956

January-February 1957
March-April 1957

Tenth Annual WPxhibi- 50 pictorial photographs May 1957
tion of Marine Photog-
raphy, International

National Print Collec- 50 pictorial photographs June 1957

tion

Curator George Griffenhagen continued his work on the new hall
of health, which is nearing completion. Paul C. Batto is the exhibits
designer. Exhibits assistance was given during the year to the Ameri-
can Association of Anatomists, the American Association of the His-
tory of Medicine, the International College of Surgeons Hall of Fame,
and the National Library of Medicine.

Associate Curator Grace Rogers, and Thaddeus O. McDowell, ex-
hibits designer, completed plans for the modernized textile hall. A
typical 3-part unit of the demountable panel and case system designed
for this hall was erected to show a revised exhibit on the subject of
silk. A contract was let for the purchase and installation of the
panels and cases required to complete the renovation.

Improvement was made in the exhibition of automobiles under
the supervision of Leslie J. Newville; and Associate Curator Edwin
A. Battison rearranged the timekeeping exhibits to feature some of
EXHIBITS 19

NEG. 44698-E
Power Machinery Hall: Beam steam engine of 1851, its 12-foot flywheel
slowly turning, stands at entrance, before photographic exhibit of wind- and
water-wheels.

Power Machinery Hall: Models of cylinder and piston internal combustion
engines, 1680 to 1860, left to right: model illustrating experiments at the
French Academy of Sciences, and Street, Drake, and Lenoir engines.

NEG. 445185

20 U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL ‘REPORT, 1957

NEG. 44518-F

Power Machinery Hall: Hydraulic turbines, right to left, Smeaton test water
wheel, model of breast wheel used at Lowell, Mass., and Fourneyron, Howd,
Francis (above), Leffel (below), McCormick, and Pelton turbines.

Power Machinery Hall: In foreground left, Pelton water turbine and, right,
wheel of first water turbine in United States. In background, gasoline and

diesel engines and, right, gasoline turbine.
NEG. 44518-K

EXHIBITS 21

NEG. 44518-A
Power Machinery Hall: Steam turbines of Curtis, DeLaval, and Parsons against
left wall. Behind alternating-current generator, foreground, is working
demonstration of electromagnetism. Wheel in background is from first water
turbine in the United States.

Power Machinery Hall: The three large electric dynamos, all early examples,
are, left to right, Wallace-Farmer, Edison, and Thomson-Houston. Model
of Edison's Pearl Street power station of 1883 in background.

NEG. 44518-G

22 U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1957

the finest instruments reconditioned during the year by Museum Aide
Charles G. Smith.

Plans were carried forward for a number of halls for the new
museum on the subjects of chemistry, electricity, and agriculture.

History

The division of military history, under Associate Curator Edgar
M. Howell, began work, in cooperation with the Department of the
Army, on an exhibit illustrating the history of the U.S. Army. Con-
struction of fixtures was completed during the year and the installation
of weapons, models, and dioramas was started. The hall was designed
by William D. Crockett. —

The outstanding collection of household furnishings and personal
effects preserved by several generations of the Copp family of New
England was moved to a location closer to related collections, and a
renovated exhibit of the material was begun. Associate Curator
Margaret Brown Klapthor is supervising the renovation.

In philately, more than 100 exhibition frames of stamps were reno-
vated. Exhibition assistance was furnished by Associate Curator
Franklin R. Bruns, Jr., to the international philatelic exhibition
in Bombay and to the Pennsylvania State Museum at Harrisburg.

Special exhibits were arranged to coincide with the national elec-
tions and the presidential inauguration. Old campaign buttons,
torchlight-parade costumes, election souvenirs, banners, and an old
ballot box were installed by Assistant Curator Charles G. Dorman
and Museum Aide James Channing. Inaugural medals, programs,
invitations to inaugural events, and old prints of past inaugurations
were arranged by Assistant Curator Anne W. Murray.

Dorman and Channing arranged the special exhibit of portraits
in plaster, consisting of 38 masks and 9 busts of European and Amer-
ican statesmen, artists, musicians, and poets of the 18th and 19th
centuries, selected from the collection presented to the Museum by
Harry McComas.

The design of exhibits for the new building included the completion
of preliminary plans for halls of costumes and naval history.

The committee that is planning the series of introductory halls de-
voted to the growth of the United States held 23 meetings during the
year. Mendel L. Peterson, head curator, is chairman and Robert B.
Widder is the exhibits designer. Scripts and preliminary layouts of
four halls were completed and two more are nearing completion. Dr.

srooke Hindle, professor of history at New York University, reviewed
the work and made many contributions to the planning.
EXHIBITS 23

Bell Telephone Photo

Telephone Exhibit: Located on balcony of Arts and Industries Building, it por-
trays evolution of telephone and equipment required for modern telephone
system. Exhibit was produced and presented to Smithsonian by Bell System
and the independent telephone industry.

Telephone Exhibit: Early commercial telephones illustrating development of
wall and desk types of instrument.

Bell Telephone Photo

Accessions

During the Fiscal Year 1957

Accessions during the past year added 647,750 specimens to the
national collections. These materials were distributed among the six
departments as follows: Anthropology, 14,004; zoology, 480,328;
botany, 45,069; geology, 33,322; engineering and industries, 1,706;
history, 73,321. This total includes 363,506 insects and 71,928 stamps.
The accessions for the most part were received as gifts from individ-
uals or as transfers from government departments and agencies. A
full list of the donors is to be found on page 81.

Anthropology

An outstanding donation to the anthropological collections received
in the division of archeology is an ibis statuette of wood and bronze
from the necropolis of Tuna-el-Gebel, Upper Egypt, dated about
1,800 B. C. This statuette was given by General Mohammed Naguib
to President Dwight D. Eisenhower, who in turn presented it to the
Institution. A large miscellaneous collection assembled by the late
Monsignor John M. Cooper was donated by The Catholic University
of America, through the Rev. James A. Magner. This material con-
sists of North American Indian, Eskimo, African, Philippine, and
Negrito cultural objects; Coptic textiles; an embossed gold disk from
Ecuador; and other Latin American artifacts.

Ethnological gifts include two large Fijian kava bowls donated by
the Government of New Zealand through the administrative officer
of the Embassy of New Zealand. Kava bowls are essential for the
Fijian ceremony of yanggona, or formalized drinking of kava. An
antique type of Malay kris or “keris,” was given by Mr. Ibrahim
Izzudin bin Yusoff, Kelantan, Federation of Malaya. The laminated
blade of this heirloom, a traditional Malay weapon, is made from
meteoric iron and copper. The hilt and sheath are decorated with gold
overlay in filigree with stone brilliants inset in bezels.

In anticipation of period-room installations for the new Museum of
History and Technology, the following paneling and finish were
accepted: A late 18th-century drawing room from the Thomas Han-
cock house, Worcester, Mass., a gift of Mrs. Adelaide K. Bullen in
memory of her father, Oliver Sawyer Kendall III; paneled wall and
woodwork from the Richard Dole house, Newbury, Mass. (about

24
ACCESSIONS 25

SPECIMENS IN THE NATIONAL COLLECTIONS MAY 31, 1957

IDSA Oip AWMBEIOIOILOXeD? 5 595 6 bp 4 0 6 6 5 been 5 « 853, 912
TCE Ol OS yal tes ean korea eee weed gs UE ae, es sat 603, 448
| Dhelot aol koyenie Dav oreey ROTA. trite MME RCM OS TCO Me KC nko enon 190, 455
Ceramics ... Ear NS aac mene Ue iil, 7)
Musical Tetnneets Sarthe ee bee cesar” We erage 2,473
]2teraioyel Joey By] ABEHMNES 616 6 o 5 G6 6 0 5 6 8, 417
IEC AMMAN ONO OOO A 5 8 6 0 5 oe he cob oy c 37, 405
IDBPARMWGONG! OW IBOMWANNE: 6 56 56 0 6 co oo 6 6 0 6 6 a 0 0 6 6 2h Maho pte)
nea CEO ATS alee lope PANES Dee ie oti dla Oil a7 10)
(GrasseSienetet seria eit ecm dametp ses ans mel hath 366, 856
NCES parte et Ne cE et a Oe ate re eet ne 216, 268
Cryptogams .. . Seek, Meee Pe day Cob yee 361, 994
DEPARTMENT OF Cuonaar Ee SAS ES eT ORES OE TE RAS AGL OR Dil
Mineralogy and Petrology. . . Barend 268, 025
Invertebrate Paleontology and Iealcaneteine 5 o o LA OOS, AGO)
Vertebrate Paleontology... . serbags 42,931
DEPARTMENT OF ENGINEERING AND aman Sas, te ake ee a WS, 22
(Ciratiss ancl IbnClGWBIES 5 5 5 6 6 6 6h 6 0 0 6 69, 661
IR MSI CCIM Ra: vie teen b sata. eae ise hss emery osm eee Len oe 34, 607
GraphicsArtsiy esse Pe Oh Bar ee ee 46, 202
Medicine and Public Health SAEED Wace ee nce ea 22, 742
DEPART MEND COR UETS RORY be pty oni so ae ee ey ke OOS
Civils COrsyaere rece gee actos name fee cht why onl a 38, 272
Military Storyane ae? Caebee haan ber dott tees ne AG heres 31, 395
Na allpElis tonsa oclihes at ear UP rela cede ta mesure ve 4, 749
IN LETATISTATE GSS ne oe. oun ares ibe Waemie a ialitente ea Oe 64, 755
Piouilaweahy 5 so 6 ge VU eg Saar rae See ULL CAN
DEPARTMENT OF Tooveee Te tee SRR OURS ae nome eaoa nae care (HOON hrc
Vana SS ee aes Rehr Mavens hanes Vem naman gc Guo 276, 526
JEPOROS © Stes a eke dee Reem Ore Mie Gee Lede ot ave Te tea on 489, 622
Rep bILeSe awe eon Petry STG, itl ibeicksneiads as 146, 371
TGISINCS eruemie sacs Bea a rts eileen oe a chet Lhe bacee sh ac, tlt COO MOMS
Imsects™ cae ee ae ae cee ce Om OO OOO)
Marine Tvertoneates WO inca tae a eerie eum, Galt alin O tote 0)
INIOUMSKSPSOSe eee is Wate Seen cere eeetie ies NO yoo GO
te Tina Gis ey Perens aioe dl ia, Veh eer Pei Ve WI aris 46, 795
oman, Wtosinom ChomiincmOnNs <5 6 ¢ 6 0 5» 0 5 0 0 0 co 6 SE BT, ZS

1740), a gift of Mrs. Florence Evans Bushee; carved and decorated
architectural woodwork by Samuel Field McIntire, from the interior
of “Oak Hill,” Peabody, Mass. (1818-14), a gift of Jordan Marsh
Company ; an original decorative finial, salvaged from the steeple of
the “Old North” Church, Boston, after the damage by a hurricane in
1954, gift of the Lantern League of the Old North Church.

Miss Elsie Howland Quinby generously converted her loan of 118
specimens of English and American furniture and glass to a gift, in
memory of her mother, Mrs. Duncan Cameron. Col. and Mrs. Robert
P, Hare gave two 17th-century English back stools and a set of six
26 U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1957

American Sheraton “fancy” chairs. Mrs. George Maurice Morris pre-
sented, among several other gifts, a carved walnut tray and brass
candlestick of about 1760. Mr. and Mrs. George H. Watson donated
an early 19th-century Windsor settee, with original paint and stencil-
ing, and an extraordinary hollow-tree-trunk grain barrel. Through
the Virgil M. Hillyer fund a North Devonshire pottery oven from
Bideford, England, was purchased.

Mrs. Marjorie Merriweather Post was the donor of the only cigar
store wooden Indian ever acquired by the Museum. Several important
examples of 18th- and 19th-century American blown glass were pre-
sented by Mr. W. Daniel Quattlebaum. These include New York, New
Jersey, and New England types, as well as a rare cut-glass tumbler
with an embedded ceramic cameo bust of Lafayette, made at the Bake-
well works in Pittsburgh on the occasion of Lafayette’s visit to
America in 1824. An entire collection of 173 glass paperweights,
mostly of European and American origin, was the gift of Mr. Aaron
Straus.

In order to augment the exhibits in the hall, “Everyday Life in
Karly America,” several large collections were accepted as loans. In
addition to her previous gift of more than 1,600 objects, Mrs. Arthur
M. Greenwood loaned 326 specimens of Americana, including 22 ex-
amples of primarily American 17th- and 18th-century silver, rare
children’s books and hornbooks, Indian captivity accounts and broad-
sides, numerous dolls, and many articles of domestic use. Two speci-
mens of North Devonshire pottery excavated at Jamestown, Va. were
loaned by The National Park Service.

In exchange with the Institute and Museum of Anthropology, Mos-
cow State University, the division of physical anthropology received
a cast of a child’s skull and lower jaw from the Mousterian cultural
period of the Crimea. The Moscow State University received a cast
of the Tepexpan skull in return. This exchange resulted from a visit
by the Russian delegation following the Fifth International Congress
of Anthropological and Ethnological Sciences, in Philadelphia.

Zoology

As reservoir hosts, transmitters, and carriers of disease, mammals
are intensively studied and collected the world over by special agencies
and commissions whose efforts have resulted in some of the more
important accessions received by the division of mammals in recent
years. This year in cooperation with the Armed Forces Epidemio-
logical Board and the University of Pittsburgh, Dr. David H. John-
son, curator of mammals, collected 656 specimens of bats and other
small mammals in central Luzon, Philippine Islands. More than
ACCESSIONS Dik

five hundred other mammals from Panama and the Canal Zone accrued
to the collection, largely from the field collecting of the personnel of
the 25th and 7451st Preventive Medicine Survey Detachments of the
U.S. Army, and in part by Dr. Carl B. Koford, Dr. Alexander Wet-
more, and by Dr. Robert K. Enders of Swarthmore College. Donated
by Dr. Enders also were 376 mammals from Alaska, Colorado, Massa-
chusetts, Wyoming, and Saudi Arabia. The Pan-American Sanitary
Bureau of the World Health Organization contributed 38 rodents
from Peru. Type specimens were received from Kenneth Walker,
Tacoma, Wash., from the Office of Naval Research through the Uni-
versity of Kansas, and from Kenneth S. Norris and William N. Mc-
Farland.

This year’s more important ornithological accessions included 118
Belgian Congo bird skins, representing 59 forms new to the Museum,
received as an exchange from the Institut Royal des Sciences
Naturelles, Brussels; 23 birds from the Caroline Islands, a transfer
from the Pacific Science Board, National Research Council; 10
Venezuelan birds, including the type specimens of 8 new forms, de-
posited by Dr. William H. Phelps, Caracas; by deposit from the
Smithsonian Institution 817 skins, 16 skeletons, 3 nests, and 5 sets of
eggs of birds, collected in Panama by Dr. A. Wetmore.

Noteworthy collections of New World amphibians and reptiles were
received as gifts from the following donors: Jerry D. Hardy, Catons-
ville, Md., 702 specimens from Cuba; William L. Witt, Arlington,
Va., 208 reptiles and amphibians; Naturhistoriches Museum, Vienna,
Austria, 98 frogs from Brazil; Dr. John W. Crenshaw, Jr., Columbia,
Mo., 52 turtles; Dr. W. G. Lynn, Washington, D. C., 23 frogs from
Jamaica and Antigua, B. W. I. For type material in this field the
Museum is also indebted to the University of Colorado through Dr.
T. P. Maslin; to the Natural History Museum of the University of
Illinois through Dr. Hobart M. Smith; and to Dr. Gordon Thurow,
Braddock Heights, Md.

The largest accession to the fish collection was the gift of Dr. Wil-
liam R. Taylor, associate curator, representing his comprehensive
collection of 16,821 specimens gathered from the southern United
States over several years. Other sizable fish collections were received
as follows: 4,329 specimens from Paraguay donated by Dr. C. J. D.
Brown, Montana State College; 1,653 specimens of West Indian fishes
obtained on the Smithsonian-Bredin Caribbean Expedition and de-
posited by the Institution; 190 fresh-water fishes from Colombia,
South America, the gift of Dr. George Dahl. Included in eight acces-
sions numbering nearly 700 specimens were 6 holotypes and 598 para-
types of fishes described by one or another of the donors from various

437255—57——8
28 U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1957

parts of the world: Dr. J. J. Hoedeman, Zodlogisch Museum, Amster-
dam; Daniel M. Cohen, Stanford University; Drs. Reeve M. Bailey,
University of Michigan, and William R. Taylor, U. S. National
Museum; Wayne J. Baldwin, University of California at Los
Angeles; Dr. Andreas B. Rechnitzer, U.S. Navy Electronics Labora-
tory, San Diego, Calif.; Dr. John C. Briggs, University of Florida;
William C. Schroeder, Museum of Comparative Zoology, Harvard
University; Dr. Boyd W. Walker, University of California at Los
Angeles; and Victor G. Springer, University of Texas.

The largest accession accruing this year to the division of insects
consisted of 168,531 specimens of ectoparasites and transferred from
the Walter Reed Army Medical Center, Department of the Army. Mr.
Ernest Shoemaker of Brooklyn donated his personal collection of
60,338 specimens, chiefly coleoptera, all exquisitely prepared and
including 101 Aforpho butterflies, many of which are rare. Dr. Colvin
L. Gibson of Memphis presented 4,327 butterflies and moths, and some
representatives of other groups collected in Mexico, the British Solo-
mon Islands and the United States. Associate Curator O. L. Cart-
wright presented 11,400 specimens of insects which he collected in
Arizona, New Mexico and Texas. A gift of 6,546 named lepidop-
terus larvae, mostly from western United States, which were associated
with reared examples in the economically important family of cut-
worm moths, was received from S. E. Crumb, Puyallup, Wash. Dr.
J. F. Gates Clarke, curator, contributed 4,801 miscellaneous insects,
mostly from the State of Washington. Other noteworthy accessions
included 5,347 insects from Africa and South Central and North Amer-
ica, received from N. L. H. Krauss of Honolulu; 3,753 North
Dakota spiders, donated by J. M. Davis, Silver Spring, Md.; and
10,000 miscellaneous insects from Thailand, received from the Inter-
national Cooperation Administration.

Aside from gifts bringing additional type material to the Museum’s
rarine invertebrate collections, the following are deemed particularly
worthy of note: 27,600 specimens from the Smithsonian-Bredin Carib-
bean Expedition deposited by the Institution; 1,757 crustaceans and
other invertebrates from survey vessel collections in the Gulf of
Mexico and off the southeastern United States, transferred from the
Fish and Wildlife Service, U. S. Department of the Interior, through
Harvey R. Bullis, Jr.; 176 identified specimens of 40 species of pelagic
copepods from Sweden and South Africa donated by Dr. Karl Lang,
Naturhistoriska Riksmuseet, Stockholm, Sweden; 1,828 shrimps, cray-
fishes, and other invertebrates given by Dr. Horton H. Hobbs, Jr.,
University of Virginia; 160 identified specimens of 18 species of
mysidacean crustaceans from the vicinity of Plymouth, England,
presented by Dr. Olive S. Tattersall, through Dr. Isabella Gordon; and
ACCESSIONS 29

2 specimens of Cephalocarida, the recently discovered crustacean sub-
class, received from Howard L. Sanders, Woods Hole Oceanographic
Institution. Donors of type material included the late Dr. Raymond
C. Osborn, Ohio State University; Dr. E. Ruffin Jones, University of
Florida: Maureen Downey, Beaufort, N. C.; Dr. Trevor Kincaid,
Seattle, Wash.; Mrs. Mildred S. Wilson, Anchorage, Alaska; Dr. J. T.
Penney, University of South Carolina; Gordon Clark, University
of Maryland; Dr. Alejandro Villalobos F., Instituto de Biologia,
Mexico; Dr. N. T. Mattox, University of Southern California; and
The Scripps Institution of Oceanography, University of California.

Among the outstanding mollusk accessions for the year may be
enumerated the following: 2,900 Australian specimens donated by
Samuel W. Rosso, Hattiesburg, Miss.; the deposit of 1,380 mollusks
received from the Smithsonian-Bredin Caribbean Expedition; 673
specimens of land and freshwater snails from Libya, collected by Dr.
Rolf Brandt, and purchased through the Frances Lea Chamberlain
Fund; 900 specimens of land and freshwater mollusks from the Solo-
mon Islands, New Britain, and New Caledonia, from James R. Hood;
and 84 marine mollusks from South Africa, received from the Uni-
versity of Cape Town, through Prof. J. H. Day. Types of helminths
were donated by Dr. Elon E. Byrd, Athens, Ga.; Dr. Thomas C.
Cheng, Charlottesville, Va.; Dr. Paul R. Burton, Coral Gables, Fla. ;
and Dr. Leland S. Olsen, Lincoln, Nebr.

Botany

An important collection of 196 type specimens of Central American
plants was contributed by the Escuela Agricola Panamericana,
through the courtesy of Dr. Louis O. Williams. Other gifts included
210 specimens of plants of Iran collected and presented by Justice
William O. Douglas; and 697 Cuban plants from Manuel Lépez
Figueiras, Santiago de Cuba. A. C. Smith obtained 4,047 specimens
of West Indian plants on the Smithsonian Institution-Bredin Carib-
bean Expedition, and C. V. Morton collected 4,927 specimens of plants
in Cuba. E. P. Killip obtained 1,505 specimens for the Institution on
the Isle of Pines, Cuba, and in southern Florida and Texas.

Among the interesting collections received in exchange were 800
Brazilian plants, mostly from the Amazon region, from the Instituto
Agronémico do Norte, Belém, Par, Brazil; 1,640 plants of Ecuador
obtained by Dr. Eric Asplund and 1,058 specimens collected in His-
paniola by E. L. Ekman, from the Naturhistoriska Riksmuseet, Stock-
holm, Sweden ; 232 specimens obtained in Asia Minor by E. K. Balls,
from the Royal Botanic Garden, Edinburgh, Scotland; 621 plants col-
lected in East Africa by H. J. Schlieben, from the Missouri Botanical
30 U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1957

Garden, and 1,353 specimens of plants of Hong Kong, California,
and Mexico, from the University of Michigan.

Extensive collections of plants of Santa Catarina, comprising 2,479
specimens, were received from the Herbario “Barbosa Rodrigues,”
Itajai, Santa Catarina, Brazil, with a request for identifications.
From the collections made by Dr. E. Yale Dawson on the Machris
Brazilian Expedition, the Los Angeles County Museum sent 239 speci-
mens for study and report.

There were transferred from the U. S. Geological Survey, Depart-
ment of the Interior, 2,142 specimens collected by Dr. F. R. Fosberg
in the Marshall Islands, and from the Agricultural Research Service,
Department of Agriculture, 870 specimens collected by Dr. F. J.
Hermann in Canada and northwestern United States.

Geology

Outstanding among the gifts of minerals is an unusual scapolite
from Itrongahy, Madagascar, from John B. Jago, and an exceptional
barite from Sterling, Colo., given by Arch Oboler. Some of the newly
described minerals presented are: cardosonite, Spain, by Dr. I. Asensio
Amor; kingite, Australia, from the Commonwealth Scientific and In-
dustrial Research Organization; ferroselite, Montrose County, Colo.,
from Howard Bowers; heidornite, Germany, from Prof. Dr. W. V.
Engelhardt; hibonite, Madagascar, from John B. Jago; tertschite,
Turkey, from Dr. Heinz Meixner; vayrynenite, Finland, from Mary
Mrose; and bgggildite, Greenland, from Hans Pauly.

Several outstanding additions were made to the gem collection by
exchange, including an exceptionally fine 18.3-carat canary yellow
diamond from South Africa, a 51.9-carat yellow sapphire from
Burma, and a 68.85-carat brilliant-cut sphalerite from Utah. A
13.50-carat andalusite from Brazil and an 11.80-carat star spinel
from Ceylon, the latter showing four separate six-rayed stars, were
purchased through the Chamberlain Fund for the Isaac Lea
collection.

Of the 131 specimens added to the Roebling collection by purchase,
the outstanding items are: schoepite and soddyite from Shikolobwe
in the Belgian Congo, and hambergite from San Diego County, Calif.
Newly described species added to the Roebling collection are: coffinite
from Utah; kettnerite from Czechosolovakia; hawleyite from the
Yukon in Canada; and isokite from Northern Rhodesia.

Significant additions to the Canfield collection include two 6-inch
crystals of enargite from Peru; a 614-ounce gold nugget from the
Yukon, Alaska, mined in 1896; several fine groups of showy wulfe-
nite crystals from Arizona; and two exceptionally fine crystals of
blue and yellow sapphire from Burma.
ACCESSIONS 31

Three meteorites new to the collection, acquired as gifts, were
Bonita Springs, Lee County, Fla., from E. P. Henderson; Kaufman,
Kaufman County, Tex., from Mrs. Carl C. Hinrichs; and Mayday,
Riley County, Kans., from Prof. Walter S. Houston. Four mete-
orites, also new to the collection, were received as exchanges: Saint
Peters, Graham County, Kans.; Kunashak, Elenovka, and Sikhote-
Alinskii, from the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics.

Important gifts received in the division of invertebrate paleontology
and paleobotany are: 750 Tertiary mollusks from Virginia, North
Carolina and Florida, given by Shelton P. Applegate; 500 specimens
of Permian brachiopeds from Tasmania, from Dr. Kenneth E. Caster ;
93 pleosponges from South Australia, the gift of B. Flounders; 66
type and figured specimens from the Pennsylvanian rocks of western
Maryland, from Joseph Lintz, Jr.; 4,665 specimens of crinoids and
other fossils representing the private collection of the late Dr. Edwin
Kirk, received from Mrs. Kirk; 400 speciments of Cretaceous Forami-
nifera from Egypt, donated by Rushdi Said; and 311 Miocene mollusks
from Peru, given by the Johns Hopkins University.

An important collection of 500 Tertiary brachiopods from Okinawa
was transferred from the U. 8S. Geological Survey, Department of the
Interior. Among the accessions obtained by exchange were 2,695
specimens of Foraminifera from Poland; 158 Tertiary brachiopods
from New Zealand; and 894 invertebrate fossils, mostly Mesozoic and
Tertiary from Japan.

Through the income of the Walcott bequest 5,322 specimens of
Devonian, Mississippian, and Permian fossils were collected by Dr.
G. A. Cooper, A. L. Bowsher, and J. T. Dutro, in the Glass Mountains
of Texas and the San Andres and Sacramento Mountains of New
Mexico.

The division of vertebrate paleontology received outstanding speci-
mens through purchase, field work, and exchanges. Specimens of
fossil fishes acquired by purchase came from the Devonian Escuminac
formation on Chaleurs Bay, Canada; and a series of late Paleozoic
and early Mesozoic fishes from various European localities.

Important specimens collected by Dr. C. L. Gazin include 100
mammalian specimens from the Eocene of Wyoming, and several
good specimens of ancient dogs and horses, which were obtained near
Harrison, Nebr. Dr. D. H. Dunkle, with Professor Westoll, secured
over 200 fossil fish specimens from Lower and Middle Devonian lo-
calities in Scotland.

Exchanges were effected that yielded excellent fossil fishes and
other fossil vertebrates. Several types of Triassic fishes from Green-
land and casts of Devonian amphibians were obtained from the
Danish Mineralogical Museum.
32 U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1957

A large skeleton of a Cretaceous fish was obtained from the Bureau
of Economic Geology of the University of Texas, and Dartmouth Col-
lege exchanged six primitive jawless ostracoderms from Oesel Island
in the Baltic. An exchange of value, consisting of nine jaws and
maxillae of primitive perissodactyls and artiodactyls, was obtained
from the Muséum de Sciences Naturelles, Lyon, France.

Engineering and Industries

In connection with the development of the new exhibit of telephony,
about 20 original instruments showing the evolution of the telephone
from 1880 to the present day were added to the collections of the
division of engineering. These specimens were donated by Bell Tele-
phone Laboratories, Stromberg-Carlson Company, the Bell Tele-
phone Company of Canada, North Electric Company, Western Elec-
tric Company, Kellogg Switchboard and Supply Company, Auto-
matic Electric Company, and the Ohio Bell Telephone Company.

All sections in the division received important new accessions in
preparation for exhibition in the Museum of History and Technology.
A specimen of particular historical interest added as a loan to the col-
lection of machine tools is a Robertson milling machine of 1852, from
Yale University. The section of light machinery acquired a fine
French astronomical clock, of about 1800, featuring a planetarium
enclosed in a glass sphere etched with the constellations, thus exhib-
iting particularly well the astronomical associations of timekeeping.
A full-sized pirogue, or dug-out canoe, made in the manner of the
Acadians, was presented to the Museum by Esso Standard Oil Com-
pany, together with a film recording the process of its fabrication. An
elegant Queensbody basket phaeton was given by Mrs. William A.
Frailey. The collection relating to instructional mathematics was
augmented considerably with the receipt, from Prof. Frances EK. Baker,
of a set of 131 mathematical models.

The division of medicine and public health added to its collection
the third X-ray tube of the discoverer of X-ray, Wilhelm Konrad
Roentgen, a gift of the General Electric Company. For the hospital
exhibit in the Museum of History and Technology, a complete set of
hospital ward fixtures of about 1900 was received from the Massa-
chusetts General Hospital. The materia medica collection obtained a
number of additional examples of patent medicines, such as Bate-
man’s Pectoral Drops, presented by Ronald R. McCandless, Owen H.
Waller, and A. P. Whealton; Godfrey’s Cordial, presented by Robert
Russell and A. P. Whealton; and Porter’s Curative Sugar Pills, from
Samuel A. Aker, David E. Kass, and George C. Kass.

Among the more important specimens acquired by the division of
crafts and industries is an 18th-century Don Quixote tapestry, pre-
ACCESSIONS 33

sented by Mrs. Kermit Roosevelt; a rustic copperplate printed fabric
dated 1761, from Mrs. Betty H. Harriman; and a copperplate print
stitched into a quilt top from Mrs. Nicholas Satterlee. In the section
of agriculture, a model of the Hussey reaper of 1833 was constructed
by Donald Holst of the Office of Exhibits; a Pennsylvania bar share
plow was donated by Daniel G. H. Lesher; and an early threshing
machine, by James W. Brown.

Preparation of exhibits for the new museum made it possible for
the division of graphic arts to acquire a number of important prints.
Among these are “St. Catherine with the Wheel,” a hand-colored
anonymous wood cut dated 1465-1470, and examples of the graphic
work of J. M. Whistler, Paul Gauguin, Pierre Bonnard, Muirhead
Bone, Georges Rouault, Pablo Picasso, Henri Matisse, and others.
An outstanding collection of materials representing the history of
motion picture photography, comprising 864 items, was received as a
bequest from Gatewood W. Dunston.

History

The division of civil history acquired a notable reception room which
was originally installed in a house near Kutztown, Berks County,
Pennsylvania, during the period 1785-1790. ‘This room corresponds
in size, plan, locale, period and original usage to the second-floor
front drawing room of the Philadelphia Presidential Mansion as it ap-
peared during Washington’s second administration.

The Ladies’ Hermitage Association, Nashville, Tenn., presented a
buff and gold china bow! from one of the dinner services used at the
White House during the administration of President Andrew Jackson.
A plate and a cup and saucer, representative of the State services
made by Wedgwood for the White House for use during the Theo-
dore Roosevelt administration, were presented by Josiah Wedgwood
and Sons, Inc.

A most interesting addition to the costumes collection is a gold bro-
cade shoe for a woman of the early 18th century with a matching gold
brocade clog, a gift of Mrs. Douglas Hathaway through Mrs.
Brookings T. Andrews.

The military history collections were enhanced by the gift from
President Dwight D. Eisenhower of a summer service uniform of a
General of the Army worn by him during his term as Commanding
General, Supreme Headquarters, Allied Powers Europe. Twelve
military paintings by the celebrated military artist, Mr. Charles
Haffbauer, were presented by Mrs. John Nicholas Brown.

Outstanding among the specimens received in the division of naval
history was a series of six oil paintings of naval actions in the Pacific
Ocean during World War II which came as a gift of the artist,
Clarence J. Tibado.
34 U. §. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1957

An important accession received in the division of numismatics is an
original pantograph invented and built by Christian Gobrecht, a
prominent United States Mint engraver, together with various en-
gravings and plate proofs of state bank notes made by him, the gift
of Mrs. C. F. Wolters. Outstanding among the specimens presented
by Paul A. Straub are a broad gold 8-ducat piece struck in 1617 in
Quedlinburg by Dorothea, Duchess of Saxony, and a ducat, dated
1688, struck by August Friedrich of Holstein-Gottorp.

A newcomer to the list of donors of philatelic material is Mr. Harry
L. Lindquist, publisher of “Stamps” magazine, who presented his col-
lections of Danish and Swedist booklet panes, including many of
great rarity. Former Postmaster General James A. Farley con-
verted one section of his valuable philatelic holdings from loan to
gift during the year.

Philip H. Ward, Jr., of Philadelphia, donated a considerable number
of United States and foreign stamps—to continue his ranking as the
“oldest” continuing donor, having first evidenced his support of the
national postage stamp collection as far back as 1915. Mr. B. H.
Homan, Jr., of New York donated 18 original drawings for Ecua-
dorean stamps, and 114 French pre-stamp covers.

Other important donations were received from Ernst Lowenstein,
Tom Lowenstein, John P. V. Heinmuller, John R. Boker, Jr., John
N. Taylor, and Dr. William Winokur and Seymour Winokur.
Care of Collections

SPECIMENS ACCESSIONED, IDENTIFIED, AND DISTRIBUTED—
FISCAL YEAR 1957
Trans-

: Gifts to ferred Loaned for
Submitted Erchanged educa- to other study to in-

for with other tional Govern- _vestigators
Receivedin identifi- Identified  institu- institu- ment and insti-
Department accessions cation on request tions tions agencies tutions
Anthropology . 14, 004 371 869 26 862, 418 100 335
Zoology .. . 480,328 38,176 43,805 5,819 4,876 1,024 80,776
Botany... . 45,069 11,968 8,296 17,188 896 48 25, 539
Geolosy: Ue ossue22) | 5065) e4nsb8e e 2761) 6,286 | 280re , 2 917
Engineering and

Industries. . 1, 706 423 417 14 0) a 175
History. ... 73, 321 24,366 24, 311 0 0 1 4, 448

Toran . 647,750 80,369 82,556 25,808 9,426 1,469 114,190

Anthropology

Exhibits Specialist A. Joseph Andrews was engaged in constructing
a large diorama showing Blackfoot Indians driving a herd of buffalo
over a cliff, a hunting method used by these Indians before their adop-
tion of the horse. The diorama, which depicts a location actually
used by the Indians, just east of the Rocky Mountains in northern
Montana, will be placed in the American Indian hall, now under con-
struction. Mr. Andrews also made plaster casts of skulls and busts
for the division of physical anthropology, repaired and restored
ceramics and metal ware for the division of ethnology, and restored
pottery vessels for the division of archeology. In addition, he altered
and repaired several manikins in the First Ladies of the White House
exhibit for the department of history, and kept in repair the statuary
throughout the buildings for the National Collection of Fine Arts.

In the division of ethnology, the rapidly progressing exhibits pro-
gram has required the removal of collections previously on exhibition,
as well as extensive changes in the study collections, in order to keep
these materials available for study by our own and outside anthro-
pologists. This work has been the principal task of Assistant Curator
of Ethnology Robert A. Elder, Jr., and Museum Aide George W.
McBryde.

With the receipt of new type storage units designed for ceramics and
metalwork, the American and European cultural history study series

35
36 U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1957

is now easily accessible to students and researchers. Under the super-
vision of Assistant Curator G. Carroll Lindsay, objects were refur-
bished, polished and cleaned for the newly opened hall, “Everyday
Life in Early America.”

Museum Aide U. G. Lyon, in addition to assisting Mr. Lindsay in
readying the new hall, cleaned and repaired a number of heating and
lighting utensils. In the laboratory of the division of archeology,
the work of processing and cataloging accessions carried over from
the previous fiscal year was completed, and less than 15 percent of
this year’s accessions await marking, a further reduction in backlog.
State collections re-worked and condensed include those representing
Idaho, Iowa, Kentucky, Montana, North Carolina, Oregon, Tennessee,
and Wyoming. The laboratory aides have commenced unpacking,
washing, and placing field numbers on the extensive collections ob-
tained by Associate Curator Dr. Clifford Evans and Research Associ-
ate Dr. Betty J. Meggers through field excavations in eastern and
coastal Ecuador, and the Territory of Amazonas, Venezuela. The
laboratory has also been able to arrange for the washing of aboriginal
textiles from Peru and Chile, to the extent that the textiles most in
need of attention will be protected from damage and will be made
more readily available for study by scholars, as well as for display.

Work on the skeletal collections in the fourth floor rotunda of the
Natural History building was concentrated on the Florida collection
and the Hemenway collection from the American Southwest. In
extending the division’s finding system to these collections, Anthro-
pological Aide Lucile E. Hoyme found many of the early specimens
either in such poor condition, or so poorly documented, as to be useless
for scientific study. In connection with these projects, it was necessary
to review and list the specimens segregated for pathology or anomalies
and stored separately from the skeletons. Miss Hoyme was granted
a cash award and a certificate of merit for the procedures she developed
in accomplishing these tasks.

Zoology

The physical condition of the zoological collections has continued to
improve. Rearrangement, reorganization, and reidentification of
collections has progressed in several divisions, but the lack of storage
space for the collection of fishes, insects, marine invertebrates, hel-
minths, and corals poses a problem becoming daily more acute.

The incorporation of the Fish and Wildlife Service and National
Museum mammal collections into a single series has gone forward
slowly because of the time devoted this year to the exhibits program.
Rearrangement of the skeletons through the cricetine rodents was
CARE OF COLLECTIONS 37

completed, and most of the skins of deer were transferred to new
quarters. A long-needed reorganization of the divisional library was
made possible by the acquisition of new book shelves and by the em-
ployment of Mr. Luis de la Torre on the summer intern program
during August 1956.

The reidentifying, labeling, and rearranging of bird specimens was
continued by Associate Curator Deignan and Museum Aide Feinstein.
The research collections in some groups were reidentified by Dr. J. W.
Aldrich and Allen J. Duvall of the U. S. Fish and Wildlife Service.
The department is also grateful to Colonel L. R. Wolfe who generously
devoted several weeks of his time to the egg collections. Over 100
of the sizeable mounted birds removed from exhibition in the previous
fiscal year, and important for historical or scientific reasons, were dis-
mounted, remade into study skins, and put back in the study series.

The inventory of the frog collection, initiated in 1956, went forward
on schedule, and is now over three-fourths completed. The discovery
of a number of misplaced specimens has proved the value of this under-
taking. Upon its completion the other groups of amphibians and rep-
tiles will be similarly dealt with.

The collections of fishes are in an excellent state of preservation,
and those processed and catalogued are arranged in an orderly man-
ner and are conveniently accessible. Regrettably, this cannot be said
of the large backlog of uncataloged specimens which, though in good
shape physically, cannot be made readily available for study until
additional storage space is provided.

Thanks to the summer intern program inaugurated this year,
marked strides were made in the physical care of the entomological
collections. With providential though temporary assistance, fumigant
was placed in 12,786 standard insect drawers, or about one-third of
the total number in the National collections. More than 20,000 drawers
remain to be examined and to have the naphthalene replenished.
Further headway with this necessary and still urgent task depends on
the availability of more subprofessional help.

With the appointment to the staff, on September 1956, of Dr. Ralph
KE. Crabill, the myriopod-arachnid section was reactivated. For
some years, the groups assigned to this section had received very
little attention for want of a specialist conversant with them, and con-
sequently were in urgent need of sorting, rehousing, arranging, and
identification, tasks which have occupied the greater part of the
associate curator’s time since his appointment. In the course of this
work, he has instituted for these collections a system of cataloging and
physical organization noteworthy by reason of its simplicity, the
speed with which it is now possible to locate any given type specimen,
and the safety it affords the material concerned.
38 U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1957

In working over the Pseudoscorpionida he discovered about 300
specimens that, over the years, had become misplaced. These speci-
mens, most of them collected by Banks and by Green, have now been
revived and rehoused with surprisingly little loss. The Museum’s
pedipalpida material has been revived and rehoused, but many speci-
mens remain in extremely poor condition. On the other hand, he
found the collections of Phalangida and of Araneida (the largest
groups under his care) for the most part in excellent condition. The
types of the latter group, which comprises 330 specimens representing
between 200 and 250 species and subspecies, have been catalogued,
checked, counted, and rehoused. Dr. Crabill reports that the Mu-
seum’s holdings of Ricinulei, the rarest of all Recent arachnids and
possibly the rarest of arthropods, include a significant proportion of
the world’s known museum specimens. They comprise the types de-
scribed in 1929 by Ewing, who reported then that only 27 specimens
were known to be in collections anywhere in the world. Of these,
10, representing 4 new species, were noted as being in the U. S.
National Museum.

The collection of Diplopoda ranks next to that of the spiders in
point of number of species and specimens, but to date it has not been
possible to assign as much as 10 percent of it even to a family. Ow-
ing partly to this enforced neglect and partly to the extraordinary
difficulty of preserving millepedes, much of the ordinary material in
this group was found to be in poor physical condition. The mille-
pede types are in better condition, and approximately four-fifths of
them have now been catalogued, rehoused, counted, and revived
where necessary. It is estimated that 700 to 800 specimens of 400 to
500 species are represented in this group. At least three-fourths of
the Museum’s representation of Chilopoda are either entirely unclas-
sified or classified only to order. Restoring and identifying this
material has been underway since September 1956 but progress has
proved quite difficult and slow. All specimens known to be types
have been incorporated into the new cataloging system, rehoused, and
revived where necessary.

During the year Dr. Phyllis Johnson, Entomology Research Divi-
sion of the Department of Agriculture, reorganized the entire col-
lection of ectoparasites, more than 168,000 specimens. The Ernest
Shoemaker collection of 60,838 specimens of miscellaneous insects,
chiefly Coleoptera, was counted, labeled, and about a tenth of it in-
corporated into the National Collection. From the Carl J. Drake
collection (not yet completely counted or accessioned) 12,228 speci-
mens have been placed in trays and labeled as part of the permanent
collection of hemiptera; and 6,737 specimens of homoptera have been
removed from Schmitt boxes and placed in drawers. Miscellaneous
insects received from N. L. H. Kraus, C. L. Gibson, R. E. Elbel, A.
CARE OF COLLECTIONS 39

Vasquez, J. P. E. Morrison and others, were incorporated; and
46,555 specimens from the U. S. Department of Agriculture, En-
tomology Research Division, were placed in the permanent series.
The entire collection of Nearctic Neuroptera was reorganized and ar-
ranged with appropriate current name-labels, as were the collections
of Collembola, Thysanura, Protura, and allied groups.

Altogether, 336,275 specimens were processed and incorporated.

During the year the alcohol was replenished in those sections of the
collection of alcoholic marine invertebrate stacks that most needed
attention, but the entire invertebrate collection requires a thorough-
going and meticulous overhaul. It has outgrown all available storage
space and is alarmingly overcrowded. Attending to only the more
critical areas, as developed by spot checks, poses a serious hazard to
much valuable and in many cases irreplaceable study and reference
material.

Two museum aides temporarily assigned to the division in the sum-
mer intern program, contributed significantly toward the reduction
of the accessioning and cataloguing backlog: Philip L. Perkins worked
in the division from July 26 to September 7 and Carol C. Clarke,
from July 16 to September 21.

The dry and alcoholic collections of mollusks are generally in good
condition, but an increasing number of catalogued lots of specimens
need to be added to the study series to bring it up to the level of
greatest service and efficiency.

The Museum’s collection of slides and alcoholic specimens of hel-
minths, stored and cared for at the U. S. Department of Agriculture,
Animal Disease and Parasite Branch, at Beltsville, Md., continues in
the best of shape physically. Scientifically, much remains to be ac-
complished for want of a curatorial assistant to care for the large
amount of important uncatalogued material awaiting attention and
incorporation, and the same condition exists in the coral collection,
which is in great need of a thorough overhauling and a sweeping
reorganization.

Botany

The major activities in caring for the permanent collections and the
processing of new material are summarized in the following table:

1955-56 1956-57
Specimens and photographs mounted ... .. . 382,729 35,500

Specimens repaired . ES Feo HeG Leo 3,174 3, 443
Specimens stamped and recorded. ..... . . 25,609 30,312
Specimens incorporated in herbarium. .... . 238,604 20,383

There are now 55,562 types in the segregated type herbarium, includ-
ing 38,995 phanerogams, 9,939 grasses, 3,345 ferns, and 3,283 crypto-
gams. This isan increase of 262 during the year.
40 U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1957

Geology

In the division of invertebrate paleontology and paleobotany, the
procurement of 175 standard quarter-unit cases and 3,585 drawers of
several sizes has eliminated a major obstacle to the reorganization of
the collection, and further real progress will be possible when addi-
tional subprofessional help is obtained.

Museum Aide Henry Roberts revised the collections of fossil crabs,
insects, and eurypterids, cleaning the specimens and placing them in
new drawers. He trimmed the eurypterid specimens, which were often
large and wasteful of space. His efforts saved space and resulted in
an arrangement that will enhance the usefulness of the collections.
For all collections not arranged alphabetically he also made finding
lists that will serve as a generic inventory.

The cases of crinoids in the Springer room were covered to protect
the specimens and help keep them clean. Associate Curator A. R.
Loeblich, Jr., reports progress in the washing of shale samples collected
on various American and European expeditions. Associate Curator
David Nicol, besides expanding the collection of Paleozoic pelecypods,
searched the collection for missing types, with gratifying results; he
found many that had been overlooked or poorly labeled.

Head Curator G. A. Cooper continued distribution of the etched
Permian fossils from the Glass Mountains of Texas. This work is now
nearly finished and the sorted collected occupies 31 quarter unit
cases. Again Dr. Robert Finks helped in revising the collection of
Paleozoic sponges.

In vertebrate paleontology, care of the collections has been some-
what curtailed by work on exhibition specimens, and as a result the
backlog of specimens to be prepared has been increased by addition
of materials transferred from the Smithsonian River Basin Surveys,
from the U. S. Geological Survey, and from the collecting trips of
the 1956 field season.

Respacing of the fish collection, necessitated by the acquisition of
new material collected by Associate Curator D. H. Dunkle or otherwise
obtained during the year, was done by Mr. Applegate of the laboratory
staff under the supervision of the associate curator. Although the
collection is necessarily still crowded in arrangement, the refinement
has greatly facilitated both search and selection of exhibit and ex-
change specimens.

In addition to his work on the Dinichthys exhibit, Exhibits Spe-
cialist Franklin L. Pearce has been experimenting with techniques of
embedding specimens in various plastics for chemical etching and
thin-section preparing.
CARE OF COLLECTIONS 41

Engineering and Industries

A long-overdue renovation of many fine instruments was begun by
Charles G. Smith, timekeeping instrument repairer who joined the
staff this year. In addition to setting into operation a number of the
clocks on exhibition, Mr. Smith has renovated most of the astrolabes,
sundials, and antique timekeepers in the collection. Four carriages
(a shay, surrey, phaeton, and gig-phaeton) and one sleigh were re-
stored. This program, begun last year, is now about 25 percent com-
pleted. Textile specimens from the Hamilton Print Works were
identified and mounted through the cooperation of the textile depart-
ment of the University of Maryland, and 279 samples of woods from
Fiji were cut and numbered. The entire reference collections of
physics and chemistry, the major collections of textiles and manufac-
tures, and portions of four other collections were moved to the new
storage area above the power machinery hall. Additional storage
units made possible the transfer of poorly housed reference collections
of materia medica, agricultural patent models, phonographs, and speci-
mens of graphic arts.

The completion of additional storage facilities at Suitland, Md.,
provided space for housing exhibits materials for the Museum of His-
tory and Technology.

History

Assignment of additional storage space at Suitland, Md., and in
Escanaba Hall will facilitate better handling of the reference collec-
tions of historical material.

The renovation of the west gallery towers, and the installation of
gun racks there, have provided increased storage space and made it
possible to consolidate shoulder weapons by type, thus providing a
more accessible reference collection.

The carriage of the bronze field piece brought to this country in
1777 by Lafayette was expertly restored by Donald Berkebile and
placed on exhibition. This piece is of special interest, complete field
pieces of the Revolutionary War period being of extreme rarity.

All the specimens in the naval collections were checked against the
catalog in preparation for separating the objects assigned to the di-
vision of naval history from those in the division of military history.
New chart cases were installed for the better care of prints and maps
in the collections.

The routine developed here for the preservation of iron barrels
recovered from sea water has been almost completely successful.
Objects treated have remained stable for periods up to 4 years. Be-
42 U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1957

cause of an increasing interest in the recovery and preservation of
objects from shipwreck sites, the procedure for preserving iron gun
barrels is presented here:

PRESERVATION OF LARGE IRON OBJECTS RECOVERED FROM
SEA WATER

The first step in preserving large iron objects such as gun tubes, solid
shot, and wrought iron fittings recovered from sea water is to prepare a
bath of 10 to 15 percent sodium hydroxide in a trough of iron at least %
inch thick. The object should then be cleaned of the calcareous coating of
coral sand and other deposits by gently tapping it with a hammer. After
the crust is removed the object should be immediately placed in the bath
and allowed to soak for a period lasting from four to six weeks.

At the end of this period, the bath should be renewed and “mossy” zine
metal should be placed around and on top of the object so that its entire
surface is in contact with the zine. After a day or two the solution will
begin to bubble, indicating that the reaction is going forward. In a few
weeks a white deposit will form on the object and the bubbling will stop.
This means that the oxygen in the surface of the corroded object has com-
bined with the zinc metal, forming zinc oxide. The object should be left in
the bath for three or four weeks after this deposit starts forming. At the
end of this time the object should be removed and the zine oxide dis-
solved with a mild solution of sulfuric acid.

After the object is dried it should be coated with a clear synthetic lacquer
or plastie coating to prevent further corrosion. Smaller objects may be
coated satisfactorily by dipping them in a solution of hot paraffin. Any
attempt to shorten this routine will probably result in the loss of the object
through disintegration.

An object waiting for the preservative process should be kept under
water until it can be put into the chemical bath. If allowed to dry out, even
before the crust is removed, chemical reactions will set in that will result
in its ultimate disintegration.

The identifying and cataloging of new numismatic specimens,
checking specimens in storage against catalog cards, and locating
specimens continued during the year. Progress was made on col-
lating the reference collections of Confederate paper money. Numer-
ous United States silver patterns were cleaned and will be lacquered
experimentally with thinned Krylon. Because of the recrystalliza-
tion of naphthalene on specimens and on the glass of the show cases,
all naphthalene flakes were removed from the currency exhibition
cases and replaced with pyrethrum insecticide.

Preservation continues to occupy the major percentage of time of
the staff of the division of philately and postal history. It has been
established that the drying out of old stock-books, some about 50 years
old, has considerably discolored some valuable specimens. The strip
pockets, as they have dried out, have become separated, allowing speci-
mens to slip and become damaged. Since the old stock-books were so
CARE OF COLLECTIONS 43

set up that revisions and additions were virtually impossible, the
collections were rearranged in new books. As a result, the discolora-
tion has been halted, the material is more systematically grouped, de-
tection of damaged specimens is facilitated, and it has become possible
to make a quick inventory of the specimens needed to complete the
collection.

The rearrangement of the very large Michel collection of postal
stationery was begun and has progressed substantially.

487255—57——_4
Investigation and Research

Anthropology

Head Curator Frank M. Setzler carried forward research resulting
from his 1956 excavations of Marlborough Town, an early colonial
site near Stafford, Va. He also prepared and delivered several lec-
tures in connection with these excavations. In collaboration with
Prof. Mildred Trotter and Oliver H. Duggins he published in the
American Journal of Physical Anthropology “Hair of Australian
Aborigines (Arnhem Land).” The introductions he prepared for
two important archeological manuscripts were published.

Archeology.—Curator of Archeology Waldo R. Wedel and Museum
Aide George Metcalf excavated sites for the River Basin Surveys
from June 4 to September 10. Their investigations comprised the
final season of work at a 3-occupation site at the junction of the
Cheyenne and Missouri Rivers in central South Dakota (39ST1).
This year the work was aimed at a clearer definition of the second
occupation, but included also the excavation of approximately 50
graves assigned to the most recent occupation, the historic Arikara
Indians, dating from around the middle of the 18th century. A well-
documented series of skeletons was collected; their association with
cultural materials, including both native pottery, pipes, stonework,
bone, wood, textile fragments, and glass beads and metal of European
origin, gives especial significance to the project in the archeological
and historical studies being carried out along the Missouri River. An
exceptionally complete series of photographs of the burials at all stages
of the work was made. The site, from the excavation of which in
1951, 1955, and 1956 the National Museum will acquire a large and
well-documented collection of pottery, stone, bone, and other artifacts,
as well as an important series of skeletal materials, will be perma-
nently flooded in a few years by Oahe Dam, now under construction
by the Corps of Engineers a few miles north of Pierre.

Following his return to Washington, Dr. Wedel substantially com-
pleted the text of his report on archeological investigations in Kansas
from 1937-40, and since. He also assembled a paper on “The Western
Oneota,” for presentation before a special symposium of the Society
for American Archeology in Madison, Wisc., on May 3, 1957. At
year’s end, Dr. Wedel and Museum Aide Metcalf were again in the
field in South Dakota.

44
INVESTIGATION AND RESEARCH 45

Until October 1956 Associate Curator Clifford Evans, in collabora-
tion with Honorary Research Associate Betty J. Meggers, worked on
the final report of their archeological investigations in British Guiana.
From October through the end of December they carried out archeo-
logical fieldwork on the Rio Napo and its tributaries on the eastern
slope of the Andes in Ecuador. This constituted one phase of a re-
search program to discover the origin of the Marajoara Culture on the
Island of Marajé, and is a follow-up of their (1948-1949) archeo-
logical researches at the mouth of the Amazon, in Brazil. The work
was supported in part by a grant from the American Philosophical
Society with magnificent cooperation from the Ecuadorean Govern-
ment.

Survey and excavation of 12 large village sites on that portion of the
Rio Napo within the boundaries of Ecuador and one of its major tribu-
taries, the Rio Tiputini, produced quantities of ceramic materials that
show definite relationships to the Marajoara Culture of the Lower
Amazon. From January until mid-February 1957, Drs. Evans and
Meggers, in collaboration with Sr. Emilio Estrada, Director of the
Museo Arqueologico “Victor Emilio Estrada” in Guayaquil, Ecuador,
continued research begun in 1954 on the coast of Ecuador, in Guayas
Province, where they excavated more sites related to the Formative
Period cultures and thereby established additional important links
with Formative Period cultures in Middle America and Peru. In
Guayaquil they attended the first Round Table on the Archeology
of Ecuador.

From mid-February until the end of March, Drs. Evans and Meg-
gers, in collaboration with Prof. José M. Cruxent of the Museo de
Ciencias Naturales and the Universidad Central de Venezuela, ex-
amined 88 archeological cites, making stratigraphic excavations in
the majority of them, on the upper part of the Rio Orinoco and its
tributary, the Rio Ventuari, in Venezuela. The results of these excava-
tions and subsequent researches show interesting connections between
cultures in this part of the tropical forest of Venezuela and the
aboriginal cultures of the Guianas, Colombia, and Brazil. Drs. Evans
and Meggers spent two weeks in Colombia studying comparative col-
lections in Bogota, Cartagena, and Barranquilla, during which time
they consulted with the Director of the Instituto de Antropologia
Colombiana, Sr. Luiz Duque Gémez, and with the Colombian arche-
ologists Alicia and Gerardo Reichel-Dolmatoff and Sr. Carlos Angulo.

Dr. Evans continues to represent the anthropological profession spe-
cializing in Latin America at the biweekly meetings of the Working
Group on Inter-American Affairs, at the Department of State.

Museum Aide George Metcalf submitted to the River Basin Surveys
for publication a report, “Star Village: A fortified historic Arikara
46 U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1957

site in Mercer County, North Dakota.” He resumed work on thi
report of a number of sites in the Davis Creek Valley, central Nebraska.
In addition, he prepared an article, “The Affair at Wounded Knee,”
dealing with the last conflict between American Army Forces and
Plains Indians.

Neil M. Judd, associate in anthropology, continued his researches on
the archeological materials collected in Chaco Canyon, N. Mex., for
the National Geographic Society. During the year a considerable
manuscript had been prepared.

Dr. Walter W. Taylor, collaborator in anthropology, continued. his
analysis of the material excavated from the Cuatro Cienegas caves of
central Coahuila, Mexico. New carbon-14 dates from the stratified
deposits in Frightful Cave have indicated a much older stratum than
heretofore suspected, and Dr. Taylor read at the 1956 annual meeting
of the American Anthropological Association a paper entitled “Some
Implications of the Carbon-14 Dates from a Cave in Coahuila,
Mexico.”

Physical anthropology—Curator of Physical Anthropology
T. Dale Stewart, from his studies on sexual differentiation of the
pubic bone, has found certain changes in its symphyseal surface to
be restricted to females and he was able to show that this feature has
complicated the determination of age in ancient skeletal remains.
Completion of his manuscript on the Potomac Creek archeological
report was set aside while he carried out an assignment as chairman of
a committee planning space requirements for the proposed wings for
the Natural History building.

Dr. Stewart presented a paper on “American Neanderthaloids” at
a symposium arranged by the American Institute of Human Pale-
ontology, of which he is president, and held during the annual meeting
of the A.A.A.S. in New York. At the 26th annual meeting of the
American Association of Physical Anthropologists he presented a
paper concerning the rate of development of hypertrophic arthritis
of the vertebral column. In it he recorded observations on this fea-
ture noted in documented skeletons from the Terry collection, Wash-
ington University, St. Louis, and in remains of American soldiers
studied while he was in Japan. From these two sets of observations
he was able to show a continuous progression in vertebral lipping
from early adulthood to senility. Dr. Stewart also prepared a re-
port on the skeletal collections obtained from archeological sites in
Kansas in 1937-39 by Waldo R. Wedel, curator of archeology.

Associate Curator Marshall T. Newman organized and carried out
integrated biological and nutritional studies on the Indians at
Hacienda Vicos in the North Central Peruvian Sierra. These studies,
made in collaboration with North American and Peruvian scientists,
INVESTIGATION AND RESEARCH 47

were aimed at demonstrating the effects of diet and disease upon the
physical and clinical status of the Vicos Indians, who live on a bare
subsistence level and under poor sanitary conditions. The strictly
base-line biological studies were a phenotypic racial study by Dr. New-
man on 150 adult Indian men, and a genetic study of 14 blood group
systems on 435 Indians, ranged by families, by Dr. Fred H. Allen, Jr.,
associate director of the Blood Grouping Laboratory, Boston.

The interdisciplinary physical nutritional studies carried out by this
group included a physical study of 210 Indian boys by Dr. Newman,
paralleled by examinations for signs of nutritional deficiencies by Dr.
Carlos Collazos Ch., Head of the Department of Nutrition in Peru’s
Ministry of Public Health; hemoglobin determination by Dr. Fred H.
Allen, Jr., for some of the same boys; bone density co-efficients by Dr.
Harald Schraer, Head of Pennsylvania State University Bone Density
Research and Evaluation Center; and skeletal age determinations by
Dr. Newman on 120 hand X-rays for the same boys. Added nutri-
tional background was provided by an 11-family food-intake survey
by Senorita Carmen Caceres C. of Dr. Collazos’ department, and a
long-range food habits study by Senor Hector Martinez A. In addi-
tion, a preliminary heart study was made, consisting of dietary
data and blood pressures by Dr. Newman, cholesterol and phospho-
lipid levels by the Epidemiological Research Center (USPHS),
Framingham, Mass., and medical data from the mobile clinic of the
Programa Patavilca, Huaras, y Huaylas (UNICEF). Dr. Newman
also spent 15 days excavating subterranean tombs of Recuay culture
at two sites on the hacienda. The Hacienda Vicos biological studies
were announced in Science, and Dr. Newman lectured on various
aspects of them before several groups. He also spoke to the anatomy
students at George Washington University Medical School in “Hu-
man Adaptation to Environmental Stresses.”

During August and part of September, Dr. Newman furthered his
studies on body weight and climate in the aboriginal New World and
the physical and clinical characteristics of the Wai-Wai Indians of
British Guiana. In addition, he served on the Committees on Fellow-
ships and the International Directory of Anthropologists in the Di-
vision of Anthropology and Psychology, National Research Council,
and assisted the Committee on International Exchange of Scholars in
developing research programs in Peru.

Museum Aide Lucile E. Hoyme studied the pelves in the collection
of the Department of Anatomy at Howard University in connection
with her investigations of sex differences in the innominate. Part of
her findings were presented at the 26th annual meeting of the American
Association of Physical Anthropologists.
48 U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1957

Ethnology.—Curator of Ethnology Herbert W. Krieger, continued
his long-range comparative research of Antillean Indian cultures,
based on historical source documentation and on the collections made
under Smithsonian grants from the Dr. W. L. Abbott and Ernest N.
May funds at archeological and historical Indian village sites in the
Bahamas, Cuba, Dominican Republic, Haiti, and the Virgin Islands.

Associate Curator C. Malcolm Watkins has conducted documentary
research and studied over 700 lots of artifacts in connection with
archeological investigations made by Head Curator Frank M. Setzler
at Marlborough, Va., under a grant from the research funds of the
American Philosophical Society. His long-range study of i7th-
century ceramic types used in the seaboard colonies was continued
with the two-fold purpose of providing useful control data for the
archeologists and shedding light on colonial trade and customs.

Assistant Curator G. Carroll Lindsay has investigated the history of
the Scott Brothers Pottery of Portobello, Scotland, and has studied a
collection of its unique products now on loan to the museum from Mrs.
Miriam F. Belcher. His conclusions will provide new data on a
little-known earthenware type. He has also been engaged in a com-
parative study of eastern woodland Indian bark dwellings recom-
mended in a London tract of 1652 for use by English settlers in New
Jersey.

Assistant Curator Rodris Carson Roth, a newcomer to the staff, has
initiated research in household surroundings of the Colonial and Fed-
eral periods, such as floor coverings, curtains, upholstery, and tea-
drinking equipment. Her research has been of immediate usefulness
in the furnishing of period room exhibits, in addition to its long-range
historical value.

Research by visiting investigators.—During the year 3,624 visi-
tors requested information, examined collections, or conferred with
staff members on anthropological problems; 3,811 letters were written ;
and 11,863 telephonic inquiries were answered. Considerable interest
was shown by several outside investigators on the extensive collection
of early 19th-century paintings of Indian portraits by George Catlin
and Charles Bird King. Many specialists in antiques conferred with
our cultural historians as a result of the newly opened exhibit “Every-
day Life in Karly America.”

As a result of the Fifth International Congress of Anthropologi-
cal and Ethnological Sciences held in Philadelphia, Pa., Sept. 1-9,
1956, the following distinguished visitors and scientists from foreign
countries conferred with the staff, and most took advantage of this
opportunity to use the anthropological collections for their individual
research :
INVESTIGATION

Father Edouard Boné, S. J., Louvain,
Belgium : Skeletal collections.

Prof. George Vanderbroek, Louvain,
Belgium: Australian skeletal collec-
tions.

Dr. Lidio Cipriani,
Indian skeletons.
Dr. Franz Hamperl, Vienna, Austria:

Paleopathology.

Dr. D. <A. Olderogge, Leningrad,
U.S.S.R.: African collections.

Dr. I. I. Potekhin, Moscow, U.S.S.R.:
American Indian collections.

Prof. G. F. Debets, Moscow, U.S.S.R.:
American Indian skulls.

Dr. Adolph Schultz, Zurich, Switzer-
land : Primates.

Dr. Ronald Singer, Mowbray, South
Africa ;: Museum techniques.

Dr. Masao Oka, Tokyo, Japan: Eth-
nography of Formosa.

Prof. Hishashi Suzuki, Tokyo, Japan:
American Indian skulls.

Dr. and Mme. H. VY. Vallois, Paris,
France: Human paleontology.

Dr. J. W. Weiner, Oxford, England:
Ancient man and environments.

Florence, Italy:

AND RESEARCH 49

Dr. J. B. Jorgenson, University of
Copenhagen, Denmark: Hskimo
skulls.

Dr. I. Noel Hume, Guildhall Museum,
London, England: American pottery
and glass.

Dr. Marius Barbeau, National Museum
of Canada, Ottawa, Canada: Art of
the North American Indian and
Hskimo.

Mr. Jose J. Figueira, Montevideo, Uru-
guay : Ethnographical materials from
Uruguay and neighboring areas of
Argentina and Brazil.

Dr. N. P. Erman, Turkey: Storage
methods and care of study collections.

Dr. Rudolph Rahmann, §. V. D., Editor
of Anthropos, Freiburg, Switzerland :
Negrito collections.

Dr. Helmut Petri, Frobenius Institute,
Frankfurt-am-Main, Germany: Re-
cent publication dealing with ethno-
graphical collections.

Dr. Georges Szumowski, Chef de la
section d’archeologie et prehistoire
de JTInstitut Francais d’Afrique
Noire: African collections.

Zoology

An outstanding event in the department’s activities for the year
was the Smithsonian-Bredin Society Islands Expedition which, in
46 days at sea and ashore, visited and collected at 129 stations at seven
islands in French Oceania: Tikahau and Makatea in the Tuamotus;
and Bora Bora, Raiatea, Huahine, Moorea, and Tahiti in the Society
Islands.

The expedition is the third of a series most generously sponsored
by Mr. and Mrs. J. Bruce Bredin of Wilmington, Del., the first being
to the Belgian Congo in 1955 and the second to the Lesser Antilles in
1956. This year’s expeditionary party, all marine biologists, consisted
of Dr. Thomas E. Bowman, specialist on the copepod, amphipod,
isopod, and other smaller crustaceans; Charles E. Cutress, specialist
on sea anemones, who is also responsible for the echinoderm collections
in the National Museum; Dr. Harald A. Rehder, curator of mollusks,
and Dr. Waldo L. Schmitt, head curator of zoology, whose major
interest is in decapod crustaceans. For transport through the islands,
as base of operations and floating laboratory, Mr. James McCon-
naughey of Dayton, Ohio, made available his sturdy and most
50 U. 8. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1957

practical 56-foot motor-sailer the Mareva. It was most fortunate
that she was provided with sails, for on the first attempt to reach the
Tuamotus the oil line to the main engine blew out, and without sails
the ship might have drifted around for days in those little traveled
waters; as it was, only a day was lost.

It is a little early to speak of scientific results, but it is certain that
the specimens collected on land and in the sea will materially enhance
the national study collections of fishes, mollusks, echinoderms, and
coelenterates. In addition, samples of soil from various parts of the
different islands were gathered for biotic assay.

Among the most important collections of lower crustaceans, accord-
ing to Dr. Bowman, are a series of 10 plankton tows from the lagoons
of the different islands, and five lots of talitrid amphipods, from three
of the islands. Certain of the night dip-net collections made under
a light yielded large numbers of lower crustaceans. Algal washings
yielded good numbers of amphipods and harpacticoid copepods, and
amphipods and tanaids were common in coral fragments. Isopods,
except Ligia, were rare. Accordingly, the collection in general will
undoubtedly prove to be valuable since few crustaceans have been
obtained from the area.

What Dr. Bowman says of the lower crustaceans is true of all the
collections made. The Museum possesses very little biological
material from the Tuamotus or the Society Islands. For basic and
revisionary systematic work in zoology a worldwide representation in
whatever group of animals the specialist is interested in must be
available.

Mr. and Mrs. Bredin, by means of their expeditions to parts of the
world from which the National Museum has received little in the
past, have enabled it to fill large gaps in the Museum’s reference
collections. The Institution and particularly its zoological staff are
profoundly grateful to the Bredins for their exceedingly helpful
scientific and material assistance.

While the Museum and its collections have benefited greatly from
these Bredin Expeditions, so also have its participating staff members
who, en route to the fields of operation, were afforded rewarding op-
portunities for visits to other scientific institutions and for making
or renewing acquaintance with members of their staffs. Thus, in
the course of the Society Islands Expedition visits were paid to the
Allen Hancock Foundation and the University of Southern California
in Los Angeles; the California Academy of Sciences in San Fran-
cisco; to the Bernice P. Bishop Museum, and the University of
Hawaii, and the Pacific Oceanic Fisheries Investigation (POFI) of
the U. S. Fish and Wildlife Service in Honolulu; and to the Ethno-
logical Museum in Papeete, Tahiti, Miss Aurora Natua, Director.
Not only were informative and stimulating conversations held and
INVESTIGATION AND RESEARCH Sit

ideas exchanged, but arrangements were also made for the loan and
exchange of study materials and the identification of specimens.

Mammals.—At the request of the Armed Forces Epidemiological
Board and the Graduate School of Public Health of the University
of Pittsburgh, Curator David H. Johnson joined a virus research
group headed by Dr. William McD. Hammon investigating mosquito-
borne virus diseases in central Luzon, Philippine Islands. Dr. John-
son left Washington on July 24 and returned on October 10. As
mammalogist of the group, he collected over 600 bats and other small
mammals in the vicinity of Manila and Clark Air Force Base.

Associate Curator Henry W. Setzer prepared a report on his Libyan
collections of 1955 and completed the studies he had undertaken on
Egyptian insectivores, jerboas, and rabbits.

Associate Curator Charles O. Handley, Jr., though concentrating on
mammals of Central and South America, continued his studies on
those occurring in the southeastern United States. A new bat and
a new murine opossum were described by him from Peruvian collec-
tions sent in by the Pan American Sanitary Bureau. On April 26
Dr. Handley left Washington to join a field party of the Gorgas
- Memorial Institute of Tropical and Preventive Medicine working in
eastern Panama on sylvan yellow fever studies. At the close of the
year he was still in the field and has reported good progress in collect-
ing specimens of host species of mammals inhabiting the forest canopy.

During his temporary appointment on the summer intern program,
Luis de la Torre completed three taxonomic papers on neotropical bats
which were published later in the year.

Birds.—Two important works upon which Curator Herbert Fried-
mann had been engaged for some years went to press this year. One
is the fifth and completely rewritten edition of the A. O. U. “Check-
list of North American Birds” (with A. Wetmore and a committee of
workers in other institutions) ; the other is the concluding volume of
a, distributional “Check-list of the Birds of Mexico” (with L. Griscom,
A. H. Miller, and R. T. Moore). Under a continuing grant from the
Guggenheim Foundation he has carried on his investigation of the
nature of the digestion of beeswax by honey-guides. Encouraging
progress was made by substituting ordinary domestic chicks for the
rare African honey-guide. Extensive progress was also made in
Dr. Friedmann’s study of the problem of brood parasitism in the
weaverbirds, and his report on it is about 75 percent complete. A few
revisionary studies were made in a paper on the birds of Gaboon
(with A. L. Rand), and he also completed a paper on the rediscovery
of the Colombian red-eyed cowbird, the first one found in a century.
It was discovered in a dealer’s shipment of live birds.

Dr. Friedmann for two weeks was in residence at the University of
California at Los Angeles as the first Lida Scott Brown Lecturer.
52 U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL. REPORT, 1957

He also lectured at the University of California at Berkeley, at the
University of Arizona, and at the University of Maryland.

Associate Curator Herbert G. Deignan contined his revisionary
studies on the birds of southeastern Asia, and his work on the bulbuls,
warblers, babblers, and other birds for the continuation of Peters’
“Check-list of Birds of the World”. Additions were also made to his
completed manuscript catalogue of bird types in the Museum.

Museum Aide Bernard R. Feinstein completed a study of the geo-
graphic variations of a little known North Pacific seabird, the
whiskered auklet.

Dr. A. Wetmore, research associate, though away part of the year
collecting in Panama, devoted considerable time to work on the fifth
edition of the A. O. U. “Check-list of North American Birds,” and
also studied the extensive Panamanian and Colombian collections
amassed in recent years.

Reptiles and amphibians.—The nearly completed catalog of type
material in the collections, which is being prepared by Curator Doris
M. Cochran, will contain well over 1,600 names proposed since the
establishment of the national collection over a century ago and based
on National Museum material. Some work was accomplished on the
bibliography for Parand and western Sao Paulo for the supplement
to her “Frogs of Southeastern Brazil.” With the assistance of Werner
Bokermann of Sao Paulo, who will become junior author of Dr.
Cochran’s contemplated “Frogs of Western Brazil,” encouraging pro-
gress has been made in the collection of fresh material in the field.

Fishes.—Curator Leonard P. Schultz and Associate Curator
Ernest A. Lachner continued with the final revisions of volume 2 of
Museum Bulletin 202, “The Fishes of the Marshall and Marianas
Islands,” which was undertaken in conjunction with the 1946 atom
bomb tests. Dr. Schultz initiated a study of the application of X-ray
techniques in systematic ichthyology, beginning with the osteological
relationship of parrotfishes, and also a study of the eels of the western
Atlantic. His revision of the frogfishes, family Antennariidae, and
of the parrot fishes, family Scaridae, are both in press.

In addition to the revisions undertaken in connection with the Bikini
report, Dr. Lachner has nearly completed a revision of the disk fishes,
order Echeneiformes, and another of the family Gobiidae. Revi-
sionary study of the families Apogonidae and Mullidae were also
started in the course of the year. Dr. Lachner spent 44 months in
Kurope on a John Simon Guggenheim Memorial Foundation Fellow-
ship, from March 12 to July 27, 1956. Type specimens totaling 807,
and over 4,000 other fish specimens, were examined in 10 museums in
7 foreign countries.

He also examined the disk fishes and the barbeled minnows, genus
Hybopsis, in the collections of Tulane University, New Orleans, dur-
INVESTIGATION AND RESEARCH 53

ing the week of April 15, while attending the meetings of the Ameri-
can Society of Ichthyologists and Herpetologists. At this meeting
he was elected to the editorial board of the Society.

Associate Curator William Ralph Taylor is actively engaged in re-
porting on the fishes of the Arnhem Land Expedition 1948. He also
has underway a revision of the North American catfishes, genus
Noturus, known as mad-toms because of their venomous pectoral
spines. The revision involves an analysis of the higher groups in the
family Ictaluridae.

Museum Aide Robert H. Kanazawa completed and submitted for
publication his revision of the eels, genus Conger, in which are crit-
ically defined for the first time the genus itself and all known species
referable to it; and a manuscript describing a new species, Coloconger
meadi, and giving new records for the ateleopid fish [jzmaza antel-
larum, both from the Gulf of California.

Insects.—Curator J. F. G. Clarke completed three papers: “Part 6,
Oecophoridae, of the Microlepidoptera of Argentina”; “(New Species
of Batrachedra Attached to Agave”; and “New Microlepidoptera
from Japan.” ‘Two other papers are nearly complete: “The Status of
Walshia amorpella Clemens,” and volume 6 of his large work, “Cata-
logue of the Type Specimens of Microlepidoptera in the British Mu-
seum (Natural History) described by Edward Meyrick.” Dr. Clarke
meanwhile has resumed his study of the Microlepidoptera of the Juan
Fernandez Islands.

Associate Curator O. L. Cartwright continued his studies on the
scarabid genera Ataenius, Onthophagus, and Lisyrus. His manuscript
on the last-named genus is about 90 percent complete. June and July
1956 were spent at Portal, Ariz., collecting and making field observa-
tions on these beetles. He also further advanced two faunistic reports
dealing with the Scarabaeidae of Micronesia and of Bikini.

Associate Curator William D. Field completed his study of the
genera Hypsochila, Phalia, and Piercolias of the family Pieridae, and
progressed with revisions undertaken on the subgenus Calycopsis of
the genus 7’eo/a and on the genus Baltia.

Since coming to the Museum, Associate Curator R. EK. Crabill has
completed four short papers: “The Newport Chilopod Genera”; “The
Validity of Paroryavalida Cook”; “The Identity of the Gunthorp
Types”; and “Notes on Plectrotaxic Criteria.” In progress are five
others, dealing with the Geophilus mordax complex in northeastern
North America, the centipedes of New York State, the genus Strigamza
in eastern North America; the ethopoyine genotypes, and check-list
of the Chilopoda of Virginia.

Miss Sophie Parfin is making a study of the bionomics of the
Mantispidae, and working on a paper with Dr. A. B. Gurney deal-
54 U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1957

ing with aquatic Neuroptera for the forthcoming edition of Ward
and Whipple’s “Freshwater Biology.”

Marine Invertebrates—Curator Fenner A. Chace, Jr., collabo-
rated with Talbot H. Waterman on the introductory chapter of a text
on the physiology of Crustacea, soon to be published by the Academic
Press. Currently, he is engaged in a study of the western Atlantic
mantis shrimps of the genus Lysiosquilla.

Associate Curator Frederick M. Bayer completed a manuscript on
the octocorals collected in the Gulf of Mexico by the Fish and Wildlife
Service M/V Oregon, with a brief discussion of the zoogeography of
the octocorals of this area. He also completed a paper on two plex-
aurid gorgonians from California; it includes descriptions and figures
of important type specimens from the Muséum Nationale d’Histoire
Naturelle, Paris, the Zoologisches Institut, Erlangen, and the Museum
of Comparative Zoology, together with a key to the eastern Pacific
plexaurid genera and a discussion of the zoogeographic affinities of
the west American shallow-water fauna. A general survey of the
shallow-water octocorals of the tropical western Atlantic and a re-
vision of one of the families in this group, upon which Mr. Bayer has
been engaged for some time, are nearing completion.

Associate Curator Thomas E. Bowman completed and submitted for
publication studies on a new calanoid copepod from the Caribbean
Sea; on the first Pacific record of the amphipod whale louse Syn-
cyamus,; on a new isopod of the genus Argathona from the Palau
Islands; and, with Carlos Diaz-Ungria, a paper on aprasitic isopods
from Venezuela. Dr. Bowman is also continuing work on the calanoid
copepods collected during the first four cruises of the Fish and Wild-
life Service M/V 7. XV. Gill off the southeastern United States, and on
the amphipod genus Parathemisto in the North Pacific and adjacent
Arctic Ocean. On March 29 Dr. Bowman visited the University of
Hawaii and the Pacific Oceanic Fisheries Investigation headquarters
in Honolulu to arrange for the study of certain of their plankton
collections.

Associate Curator Charles E. Cutress nearly completed his study of
the Hawaiian shallow-water sea anemones. His other current studies
on the sea anemones of the Marshall and Gilbert Islands and of Samoa
and Tahiti are essentially completed, but they are being set aside until
the specimens collected on the Smithsonian-Bredin Society Islands
Expedition can be evaluated and the resulting information incorpo-
rated in those papers. From October 22 through November 6, 1956,
he examined type material of sea anemones in the Peabody Museum,
in the Museum of Comparative Zoology, and in the American Museum
of Natural History. In February 1957 Mr. Cutress visited Wesleyan
University, Middletown, Conn., to arrange the transportation of a
collection of miscellaneous invertebrates which that institution had
INVESTIGATION AND RESEARCH 55

donated to the national collections. En route to the Society Islands
in March 1957 he examied sea anemone material at the Allan Hancock
Foundation, University of Southern California.

Clarence R. Shoemaker, associate in zoology, worked on the amphi-
pod genera Synchelidium, Platyischnopus, Megalupropus, and
Parorchestia.

Horton H. Hobbs, Jr., research associate, completed a manuscript on
the evolutionary history of the Pictus group of the crayfish genus
Procambarus and has almost finished a second manuscript on new
species and records in this group. During a 2-months’ visit to Mexico,
he completed a study of the Cuban species of the ostracod genus
E'ntocythere and began two other manuscripts, one on Cuban cray-
fishes and the other on Mexican and Cuban entocytherids.

J. Percy Moore, collaborator, finished a brief report on the deep-
water leeches of the British-Australian-New Zealand Antarctic Ex-
pedition. He has also, at the age of 88, done considerable anatomical
work on the leech genera Macrobdella and Philobdella, demonstrating
that these two are less closely related than previously believed.

Under grant from the Carter Oil Company of Tulsa, Okla., Bertha
M. Cutress on November 13 undertook a study of echinoid spines.

During the year, 14 specialists in other institutions agreed to identify
material of various groups of invertebrates, for most of which there
are no specialists on our staff. Of the 24 shipments, involving more
than 1,264 specimens, sent to these unofficial collaborators, 12, includ-
ing more than 117 specimens, have already been returned. The spe-
cialists rendering these gratuitous services and the groups on which
they work are:

Dr. HE. L. Bousfield: Amphipod crus-| Dr. Paul L. Illg: Copepod crustaceans.

taceans. Dr. Karl Lang: Tanaid crustaceans.
Dr. Ralph W. Dexter: Branchiopod | Dr. Marvin C. Meyer: Leeches.
crustaceans. Dr. Mary D. Rogick: Bryozoans.
Dr. G. E. Gates: Harthworms. Dr. Willis L. Tressler: Ostracod crus-
Mr. George D. Grice, Jr.: Copepod taceans.
crustaceans. Dr. Harry C. Yeatman: Copepod crus-
Dr. Willard D. Hartman: Sponges. taceans.
Dr. Libbie H. Hyman: Flatworms. Mr. Fred C. Ziesenhenne: Echinoderms.

Dr. Dora P. Henry: Barnacles.

Mollusks.—Curator Harald A. Rehder continued work on the super-
family Pyramidellacea for the “Treatise on Invertebrate Palentology.”
He spent April and most of May in the field as a member of the
Smithsonian-Bredin Society Islands Expedition, collecting and study-
ing marine animals, with special emphasis on mollusks.

Associate Curator Joseph P. E. Morrison did further work on the
Ellobiidae, a family of salt-marsh snails, and the Hydrobiidae, a
family of tiny fresh-water snails, and did considerable research on
the Corbiculidae, a family of American brackish water clams.
56

Research by visiting investigators.

U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1957

In addition to investigators

from Federal agencies located in the Washington area, more than 1,098
(as compared with 216 last year) professional biologists and students
interested in some phase of systematics or some group of animals,
paid one or more visits to the Museum examining specimens, reference
works, or in consultation with members of the staff. Foreign scien-
tists, who pursued investigations in the department of zoology and
their special field of interest, included :

Dr. George Vanderbroek, Louvain Muse-| Mr. G. J. Kerrich, London, England:

um, Brussels, Belgium: Primates.

Dr. Adolph H. Schultz, Anthropolo-
gische Institut der Universitit Ziirich,
Switzerland : Primates.

Dr. Karl Koopman, New York, New
York: West Indian mammals.

Father E. Boné, University of Louvain,
Belgium : Giraffe.

Dr. A. W. F. Banfield, Canadian Wild-
life Service, Ottawa, Canada: Cari-
bou.

Mr. John §. Tener, Canadian Wildlife
Service, Ottawa, Canada: Muskoxen.

Dr. Kai Curry-Lindhal, Stockholm,
Sweden: African specimens of the
yellow wagtail, Motacilla flava.

Dr. J. A. Pringle, Natal Museum, Pieter-
maritzburg, South Africa: Storage
methods and recording and document-
ing of collections.

Dr. P. EK. P. Deraniyagala of Ceylon:
Sea turtles.

Captain Carl L. Blumenthal, Hamburg,
Germany : Coleoptera.

Dr. Alberta W. Vasquez, Mexico, D. F.,
Mexico: Lepidoptera.

Dr. Keizo Yasumatsu, Fukuoka, Japan:
Hymenoptera.

Dr. Clare Baltazar, Manila, P. I.: Hy-
menoptera.

Dr. Akif Kansu, Ankara, Turkey: Lepi-
doptera.

Dr. J. Maldonado, Puerto Rico: Hemip-
tera.

Dr. Shizuo Kato, Tokyo, Japan: Dip-
tera.

Dr. C. Watanabe, Hokkaido, Japan:
Hymenoptera.

Dr. J. van Dinther, Paramaribo, Dutch
Guiana: Insect biological control.
Dr. 8. L. Tuxen, Copenhagen, Denmark :

Hemiptera.

Mr. Robert Benson, London, England:

Hymenoptera.

Hymenoptera.

Dr. Vitorio Delucchi, Mendrisio, Swit-
zerland : Hymenoptera.

Dr. F. I. van Emden, London, England:
Diptera.

Mr. J. F. Perkins, London, England:
Hymenoptera.

Mr. H. F. Barnes, Rothamstead, Hng-
land: Diptera.

Dr. Frederico Lane, Saio Paulo, Brazil:
Coleoptera.

Dr. Donald Chant, Belleville, Ontario,
Canada: Acarina.

Dr. David Hardwick, Ottawa, Canada:
Lepidoptera.

Dr. Eugene Monroe, Ottawa, Canada:
Lepidoptera.

Mr. J. P. Doncaster, London, England:
Coleoptera.

Dr. J. Ghesquiére, Menton, France:
Hymenoptera.

Dr. Walter Forster, Munich, Germany:
Coleoptera.

Dr. E. Haaf, Munich, Germany: Cole-
optera.

Dr. Astrid Lgken, Bergen, Norway:
Hymenoptera.

Dr. Isabel Farfante, University of Ha-
vana, Cuba: Penaeid shrimps and
literature.

Dr. L. B. Holthuis, Rijksmuseum van
Natuurlijke Historie, Leiden, Neth-
erlands: Decapod crustaceans.

Dr. Takasi Tokioka, Seto Marine Lab-
oratory, Wakayama-ken, Japan: Tun-
icates.

Dr. Caesar R. Boettger, Zoologische
Institut, Technische Hochschule,
Braunschweig, Germany: Land
snails.

Dr. Alfredo de la Torre, Matanzas,
Cuba: Recent and fossil Cuban mol-
lusks.
INVESTIGATION AND RESEARCH 57

Botany

Phanerogams.—Curator Lyman B. Smith was in southern Brazil
from October 1956 to May 1957 studying the flora of the region, with
the support of a grant from the National Science Foundation and in
collaboration with the Herbario “Barbosa Rodrigues.” Over 5,000
numbers of plants were collected on the planalto of Santa Catarina
and adjacent regions as a basis for phytogeographical research on the
origin of the flora of southern Brazil. Large series from these collec-
tions were deposited in the Herbario “Barbosa Rodrigues,” the Museu
Nacional, and the Jardim Botanico do Rio de Janerio as a basis for
further collaboration in research with the U. S. National Museum.
He visited a number of other Brazilian herbaria in an effort to promote
closer relations in studies of mutual interest. With Dr. R. J. Downs,
he continued preparation of a study of the Euphorbiaceae of the
Brazilian State of Santa Catarina. In July he visited the Harvard
University Herbarium and Library to carry on research studies. Dr.
Smith supervised the work of two candidates for the degree of Ph. D.
at George Washington University, such work being based very
largely on the material in the National Herbarium.

Associate Curator E. H. Walker continued the preparation of a flora
of Okinawa. Originally planned as an annotated list, it was enlarged
at the request of the U. S. Civil Administration of the Ryukyus by
adding keys and brief descriptions. This change will greatly increase
the usefulness of the flora, which will be published by the above organ-
ization and will complete Dr. Walker’s work on the botanical phase
of the U. S. Government’s scientific investigation of the Ryukyu
Islands, begun in 1951.

Associate Curator E. C. Leonard continued preparation of a paper
on the Acanthaceae of Argentina, completing the descriptions of the
species and an index of about 400 available specimens. He is now
engaged in writing the citations of specimens and making illustrations.

Associate Curator Velva E. Rudd started work on a treatment of
Aeschynomene for the “Flora Malesiana,” and initiated studies of
several small genera of the Aeschynomeninae preparatory to comple-
tion of a revision of the entire subtribe. She spent a short time at the
New York Botanical Garden examining material in connection with
her current research.

Dr. Richard S. Cowan, who joined the staff on May 1, 1957, as associ-
ate curator, plans to continue his research in the caesalpinioid Le-
guminosae.

Mr. E. P. Killip, research associate, continued his collecting of
plants on the Isle of Pines, Cuba, and in southern Florida.

Grasses.—Curator Jason R. Swallen continued his studies of the
grasses of southern Brazil. A small collection of grasses obtained by
58 U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1957

EK. Yale Dawson on the Machris Brazilian Expedition was found to in-
clude several new species from central Brazil. His descriptions of
these will be published by the Los Angeles County Museum in the
reports of the expedition. ‘Three papers were published, one on new
grasses from Santa Catarina, Brazil, and the other two on the grasses
of the Guayana Highland, Venezuela.

Mrs. Agnes Chase, research associate, completed her work of editing
and verifying the index of species of grasses, to which she has devoted
most of her time over the past three years. Typing of the cards has
also been finished.

Dr. F. A. McClure, research associate, continued his work on bam-
boos under a grant from the Maria Moors Cabot Foundation of Har-
vard University. Assembling and processing of literature concerning
the taxonomy of the bamboos continued under a grant from the Na-
tional Science Foundation. An increase of about 500 percent of the
publications available in photostat copies has made possible his prepa-
ration of a paper, “Typification of the Genera of the Bambusoideae,
with Some Notes on Status,” to be published in Zaxon. Progress
has been made on the revision of the subfamily Bambusoideae for the
new edition of Engler and Prantl’s “Natiirlichen Pflanzenfamilien.”

Ferns.—Curator C. V. Morton continued with the research projects
now under way on the fern floras of Central America and Cuba. A
series of studies of cultivated ferns and their nomenclature was started,
and two papers have been prepared.

In late July and early August Mr. Morton visited botanical gardens,
arboretums, and herbariums in California, studying ferns in cultiva-
tion. Beginning on August 20, he attended the annual field trip of
the American Fern Society: of which he was the organizer and one of
the leaders. The trip, which started in the city of Quebec, Canada,
and proceeded to the Gaspé Peninsula, occupied 6 days, during which
time various interesting botanical localities were investigated, espe-
cially the slopes of Mount Albert, in Gaspé National Park, and Mount
Sainte Anne, near Percé. A number of botanical collections were
obtained for the Museum. He also attended the annual meetings of the
American Institute of Biological Sciences at Storrs, Conn., August
27-29, where he presided at the annual meeting of the American Fern
Society.

Cryptogams.— Associate Curator Paul Conger continued his studies
of the diatom flora of Chincoteague Bay, Md., and worked on a mono-
graphic revision of the genus Grammatophora. He also spent some
time in the study of the significance and causes of abnormal forms of
diatoms.

Research by visiting investigators.—Dr. Kittie F. Parker, for-
merly of the University of Arizona, carried on her research on the

INVESTIGATION AND RESEARCH 59

western flora, especially Compositae. Dr. José Cuatrecasas continued
as a resident investigator on the basis of a grant received by the Smith-
sonian Institution from the National Science Foundation, completing
treatments of the Burseraceae and Malpighiaceae in his study of the
flora of Colombia. Dr. Marshall C. Johnston: of Fort Detrick, Md.,
carried on research in the genus Dyssodia, using the herbarium on
weekends throughout the year. Dr. George Black, of the Instituto
Agronomico do Norte, Belém, Para, Brazil, completed his monograph
of Avonopus. He returned to Brazil in October. Dr. Efraim Her-
néndez X., Escuela Nacional de Agricultura, Mexico City, spent
several months at the herbarium studying the grasses of Mexico.

Other visitors who spent shorter periods in the department consult-
ing the collections included Lyman Benson, Pomona College; I. D.
Clement, Atkins Garden and Research Laboratory, Cienfuegos, Cuba;
Leslie A. Garay, University of Toronto; Rogers McVaugh, University
of Michigan; George B. Van Schaack, Missouri Botanical Garden;
Clair A. Brown, Louisiana State University; Prof. P. N. Mehra,
Punjab University, Amritsar, India; Rolla M. Tryon, Missouri Botani-
cal Garden; Richard D. Wood, University of Rhode Island; and John
L. Stone, Royal Microscopical Society, London. Staff members of
other government agencies, especially the Department of the Interior
and the Department of Agriculture, continue to use the facilities of the
department regularly.

Geology

Mineralogy and Petrology.—Acting Curator George Switzer com-
pleted work on a new mineral from Mexico, paratellurite, a tetragonal
form of tellurium dioxide. A restudy of the rare mineral pilinite was
also completed, done jointly with Miss Laura Reichen of the U. S.
Geological Survey. Work was continued on a long-term research
project involving a detailed study of the sulfates and related min-
erals. Dr. Switzer prepares annually a review of the diamond in-
dustry widely used by government agencies, commercial organiza-
tions, and others interested in the many phases of the diamond
industry. During the year Dr. Switzer was a member of the panel on
industrial diamonds, organized by the Materials Advisory Board of
the National Academy of Sciences in order to advise the Office of
Defense Mobilization on a research program to compare the proper-
ties and performance of man-made diamonds with natural diamonds.

Associate Curator E. P. Henderson completed descriptions of several
unstudied meteorites in the Museum collection, and directed part of
a U.S. Air Force research program dealing with meteorites (AF 18
(600) 1596).

437255—57-—_5
60 U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1957

The phase of the Air Force project being pursued here under Mr.
Henderson’s direction deals essentially with the morphology of mete-
orites. The work involves making an album of photographs of mete-
orites, and relating internal structures to surface features of those
meteorites which show an indication of having been orientated or
fractured in flight. Plaster models are made and cross sections cut to
determine the center of the mass, and to observe the form and angu-
larity of the specimens. Much of the technical work is being done by
Mr. Grover Moreland, physical science aide, Mr. Jack Scott, photog-
rapher, and Mr. Robert Jones, museum aide.

Invertebrate Paleontology and Paleobotany.—Head Curator
G. A. Cooper has a number of projects under way: two of them are
in the Permian, three in the Mississippian, one in the Devonian, and
one in Recent and Tertiary brachiopods. That on the Permian of the
Glass Mountains is a continuing project on which progress to date has
consisted of gathering together the collection and sorting it into
genera. The coliection is now assembled in 31 standard quarter-unit
cases, and an aide is engaged in the 4-year task of processing and
describing it: The second Permian project, a description of the
brachiopods from the Permian of north-central Texas collected by
Dr. R. C. Moore, is being done in conjunction with the Glass Moun-
tains studies.

Of the three Mississippian projects started, one is on the early Mis-
sissippian brachiopods of the Caballero formation of the Sacramento
Mountains, and the second is on the beautiful brachiopods from the
Lake Valley formation of New Mexico; in both, the collections have
been assembled and the specimens are being made ready for photog-
raphy. In the third, on the Mississippian brachiopods of Oregon, all
the specimens have been prepared, the pictures made, and only writing
the manuscript remains to be done. For the Devonian project, a
description of the Devonian fossils from the Sacramento and San
Andres Ranges in New Mexico, the specimens are being prepared. For
the final project, a description of the Tertiary and Recent rhynchonel-
lid brachiopods, the pictures have been made and completion of the
manuscript is scheduled for the end of 1957.

In mid-August Dr. Cooper, in company with Dr. C. O. Dunbar of
Yale University and Dr. L. G. Henbest of the U. S. Geological Sur-
vey, went to Marathon, Tex., where a week was spent in examination
of critical parts of the Glass Mountains section with the idea of reach-
ing a conclusion on age determinations. After the week in the Glass
Mountains, Cooper and Dunbar went to Nogales, Ariz., and thence to
the International Geological Congress in Mexico. After the Congress
in late September, Cooper returned to Nogales and took the car to
Alamogordo, N. Mex., where he was joined by Arthur L. Bowsher and
INVESTIGATION AND RESEARCH 61

J. Thomas Dutro of the U. S. Geological Survey. The party spent
about five weeks studying the Devonian sediments exposed in the
Sacramento and San Andres Mountains, which bound the east and west
sides of the White Sands area. A good collection was made of the
Devonian fossils which are to be jointly described by Dutro and
Cooper.

At the November meetings of the Paleontological Society, Dr.
Cooper was elected president of that organization for the year 1956-57.

Associate Curator Alfred R. Loeblich, Jr. (in collaboration with
his wife, Helen T. Loeblich, research associate), spent the bulk of his
time in this fiscal year on research connected with his program on the
planktonic Foraminifera, completing eight manuscripts, some of
which, together with those from other contributors to the project, will
make a volume to be published as U. S. National Museum Bulletin
215 in fiscal 1958. The two also continued their studies on the genera
of the “smaller” Foraminifera to be included in the Treatise on In-
vertebrate Paleontology, which they expect to finish late in the pres-
ent fiscal year or early in the next. The research of the Loeblichs
included not only taxonomic work but studies in correlations based on
the distribution of the planktonic Foraminifera. They have made a
contribution to the difficult problem of the recognition of the Pale-
ocene and its separation from the Cretaceous.

On July 7, 1956, Dr. Loeblich and Dr. Hans Bolli of Trinidad Oil
Company, Ltd., Trinidad, B. W. I., left Washington for Alabama and
Texas to make a study of the Cretaceous-Tertiary boundary in those
States and to collect foraminiferal samples from the strata overlying
this boundary. In addition, samples were collected from the Paleocene
strata (Wilcoxian and Midwayian). A further object of the study
was to get background information for correlation of late Cretaceous
and early Tertiary strata along the Atlantic Coastal Plain across Ala-
bama into Texas. In addition to the expedition to Alabama and Texas,
several trips were made by Dr. Loeblich to nearby Maryland and Vir-
ginia to collect foraminiferal samples from high Cretaceous and
Eocene strata exposed near Washington.

During the Council meetings of the Society of Economic Paleon-
tologists, Dr. Loeblich was appointed chairman of a committee to
study the long-range publication policies of the Journal of Paleon-
tology and the Journal of Sedimentary Petrology.

On June 27, 1957, Dr. Loeblich left the Museum to join the staff of
the California Research Corporation, in Los Angeles, Calif.

Associate Curator David Nicol is widening his studies on the
Paleozoic pelecypods, a group that has not received its due of atten-
tion. The national collection of these fossils is a fine one but has never
been properly organized or studied in detail.
62 U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1957

In July 1956 Nicol visited the Bermuda Biological Station for Re-
search, where he collected living mollusks and obtained a collection of
gorgonians and other material. He also collected fossil bird bones,
land shells, and fossil marine mollusks. All these expeditions resulted
in new material for the national collections.

The scientific illustrators, Lawrence and Patricia Isham, prepared
more than 1,200 drawings of the smaller Foraminifera for Dr. Loeb-
lich, in addition to drawings of skulls and bones for Dr. Gazin, of
fishes or parts of fishes for Dr. Dunkle, and a number of drawings for
Dr. Cooper, Dr. Nicol, and other members of the Museum staff. The
Ishams also prepared an assortment of exhibit labels, exhibit sketches,
diagrams and maps. The Ishams’ drawings of Foraminifera have
been applauded by many workers who use the papers in which their
drawings appear.

Dr. R. S. Bassler, research associate, completed his study of the
Ordovician cystoids, an extinct group of echinoderms, on which he has
been working since his retirement in 1948.

Dr. C. W. Cooke, research associate, is completing a manuscript on
American Tertiary echinoids of eastern United States for publication
in the Professional Papers series of the U. S. Geological Survey.

Museum Aide Henry B. Roberts reorganized the collection of fossil
crabs and arranged the specimens by families. Mr. Roberts is also
continuing his researches on the Cretaceous crabs of the Atlantic
Coastal Plain. He is revising old collections and working on new
material from Mississippi.

Vertebrate Paleontclogy.— Curator C. L. Gazin completed his
study of material of the ground sloth Fremotherium rusconti collected
in 1950 and 1951 near Octi and Pesé, Panama. The results of these
studies appear in the Appendix of the Smithsonian Annual Report for
1956. He also completed a study of an unusually well-preserved skull
of the middle Eocene creodont Patriofelis ulta collected by a party
from the University of Utah and submitted to him for description.
He has also started a review and revision of middle Eocene primates,
numerous at that time but almost disappearing from temperate North
America after the Eocene.

In early summer Dr. Gazin, Exhibits Specialist Franklin L. Pearce,
and Exhibits Worker Theodore Ruhoff carried on field work in Wyo-
ming and adjacent Nebraska. In the Wind River Basin the party
was successful in obtaining upper Eocene artiodactyls. The quarries
in which Coryphodon was discovered in 1954 were reopened and two
more skeletons and another skull were obtained. Lower Eocene ma-
terial was collected near the New Fork of the Green River and in
Fossil Basin, Wyo. Investigation was made of the lower Oligocene
exposures north of Harrison, Nebr., with good results.
INVESTIGATION AND RESEARCH 63

In connection with his researches on middle Eocene primates, Dr.
Gazin visited Princeton and Yale Universities to study and borrow
specimens important to his researches.

During the year Dr. Gazin was appointed to serve for three years
as representative of the Society of Vertebrate Paleontology in the
Earth Sciences Division of the National Research Council. He con-
tinued to represent the same society as a director of the American
Geological Institute. He also continues to serve as chairman of the
Eocene Subcommittee of the Society of Vertebrate Paleontology’s
Committee on Nomenclature and Correlation of the North American
Continental Cenozoic.

Although Associate Curator David H. Dunkle has been deeply en-
gaged with plans for rehabilitating the exhibit hall of lower verte-
brates, he has made progress in his studies on the Jurassic fish fauna of
Cuba and on the vertebrate fossils of the Cretaceous Mowry formation
of Wyoming and Montana. During his trip to Europe to obtain ex-
hibition specimens of the lower vertebrates, he visited some of the
British and European leaders in his field and had opportunity to see
their laboratories and methods of study. Of especial value was his
visit to the celebrated laboratory of Dr. Erik Stensi6, famous for the
techniques he has developed in the study of fossil fishes.

In May Dr. Dunkle spent two weeks in the field with Dr. G. E.
Lewis of the U. S. Geological Survey, collecting mammal-like reptiles
in the Kayenta formation of northeastern Arizona. Material of four
tritylodonts and a protosuchian were found.

Dr. Dunkle served as chairman of the Committee on National
Science Foundation Post-doctoral Fellowships for the Division of
Earth Sciences of the National Research Council, and as a member of
the Cleveland (Ohio) Museum of Natural History Visiting Committee.

Research by visiting investigators.—Visitors of note to the
Foraminifera collection were: Dr. Hans M. Bolli, Trinidad Oil Com-
pany, B. W. I., who accompanied Dr. Loeblich on a collecting trip to
Alabama and Texas; Dr. J. C. Troelsen, University of Copenhagen,
Denmark; Dr. Hans G. Kugler, Natural History Museum, Basle,
Switzerland; A. F. J. Smit, University College, Ghana, West Africa;
John B. Saunders, Trinidad Oil Company, Ltd, B. W. L;
A. W. Nauss, Klintar Oils, Calgary, Canada; Gordon Hunter, Gulf
Coast Research Laboratory, Ocean Springs, Miss.; Dr. Steven K. Fox,
Rutgers University; Jack F. Schindler, California Company, Pensa-
cola, Fla.; Andrew W. Marianos, Humble Oil and Refining Company,
Chico, Calif.; Gilbert Nouet, Compagnie Frangaise de Petroles, Paris,
France; Esteban Boltovskoy, Museo Argentino Nacional de Ciencias
Naturales, Buenos Aires, Argentina.
64 U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1957

Other visitors were: Dr. R. C. Moore, University of Kansas; Dr.
Maxim K. Elias, Nebraska University; Fred M. Swain, University of
Minnesota; Y. R. Bentor, Israel Geological Survey, Jerusalem, Israel;
A. A. Opik, Bureau of Mineral Resources, Canberra, Australia; Riuji
Endo, President Saitama University, Japan; C. H. Crickmay, Im-
perial Oil Company, Ltd., Calgary, Canada; Karl M. Waage, Yale
University; L. R. Cox, British Museum (Natural History), London,
England; C. J. Stubblefield, Geological Survey and Museum, London,
England, and Professor Tatsuro Matsumoto, Kyusu University,
Fukuoka, Japan.

Users of the collections in the division of vertebrate paleontology
included the following:

Bayard H. Brattstrom, Adelphi College, Garden City, N. Y., fossil
snakes and lizards from the North American Tertiary; Michael Kel-
sey, Miami University, Oxford, Ohio, Paleozoic fishes; Dr. G. E.
Lewis, U. S. Geological Survey, Denver, Colo., Plio-Pleistocene
horse remains; Dr. M. Maldonado-Koerdell, Petrdéleos Mexicanos,
Mexico, Cretaceous fish and certain Oligocene artiodactyls; Malcolm
McKenna, University of California, Berkeley, Calif., types of Oligo-
cene solenodont insectivores; Bryan Patterson, Museum of Campara-
tive Zoology, Cambridge, Mass., Paleocene taeniodonts and Ogliocene
solenodont insectivores; Dr. Elwyn Simons, Princeton University,
Princeton, N. J., Eocene Coryphodon remains and other pantodonts
from the Paleocene; Louis Thaler, who has been carrying on ad-
vanced study under Abbe Lavocat in Paris, studied Plio-Pleisto-
cene microtine rodents from Idaho and related forms from the San
Pedro Valley of Arizona; Richard van Frank, Museum of Compara-
tive Zoology, Cambridge, Mass., Hremotherium remains from
Panama; Dr. T. E. White, National Park Service, Dinosaur
National Monument, Utah, skull structure of the Jurassic dino-
saur Camarasaurus.

Engineering and Industries

Engineering.—Scripts have been completed for the Museum of His-
tory and Technology halls of tools, ight machinery, physics, and
chemistry. The manuscript of a booklet describing the new Hall of
Power Machinery was completed by Head Curator Robert P. Mult-
hauf, and a catalogue of the phonograph collection is in preparation
by Associate Curator Edwin A. Battison and Leslie Newville.

Research papers have been completed on the history of the milling
machine, by Curator Robert S. Woodbury; the natural philosophy
of William Gilbert, by Associate Curator W. James King; 17-cen-
tury mining machinery, by Dr. Robert P. Multhauf; the early his-
INVESTIGATION AND RESEARCH 65

tory of the low-cost watch, by Edwin A. Battison; and the invention
of the Graphophone, by Leslie Newville.

A report on Kuropean museums of science was prepared for publica-
tion by Dr. Multhauf, who was elected to the Council of the History
of Science Society, and president of the Washington History of Sci-
ence Club.

Medicine and public health.—Curator George B. Griffenhagen
completed a script for the Museum of History and Technology exhibit
of medical science, and published a booklet on the tools of the apothe-
cary. Hecontinued research in this field with articles on the pharma-
ceutical show-globe, ceramic apothecary jar, and mortar and pestle.
With James Harvey Young, he completed an extensive study of the
impact of old English patent medicines in America.

Mr. Griffenhagen served as executive secretary of the Fourth Pan-
American Congress of Pharmacy and Biochemistry. In connection
with this duty he visited South America, including in this tour visits
to museums of medicine and pharmacy in Peru, Brazil, Cuba, and
Venezuela. He was also re-elected to the position of secretary of the
section on historical pharmacy of the American Pharmaceutical As-
sociation; appointed chairman of a special coordinating committee of
the American Association of the History of Medicine, the American
Academy of the History of Dentistry, the American Institute of the
History of Pharmacy, and the History of Science Society; elected a
“membre extraordinaire’ of the Academie International d’Histoire de
la Pharmacie; and elected president of the Friends of Historical
Pharmacy.

Crafts and industries.—The scheduling of the exhibit halls of tex-
tiles and agriculture for renovation in the immediate future has en-
tailed considerable research towards documentation and presentation
by Associate Curators Grace L. Rogers and Edward C. Kendall.

Miss Rogers completed an article on the history of the Scholfield
wool-carding machine, and made significant progress on a catalog of
the sampler collection. Mr.. Kendall has nearly completed a short
description of the Hohenheim plow collection.

Industrial cooperation.—Curator Philip W. Bishop has in progress
a study of Alexander Lyman Holley and the 19th-century steel indus-
try, a portion of which is scheduled for early publication.

Graphic arts.—Curator Jacob Kainen conducted research in Europe
under a grant from the American Philosophical Society in connection
with his nearly completed study of the color woodcuts of John Baptist
Jackson. He completed two papers of smaller scope, on Jackson and
his chiaroscuros, and on the work of Thomas Bewick in wood
engraving. During his trip to Europe, Mr. Kainen visited museums
in Holland, Belgium, Germany, France, Italy, and England.
66 U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1957

Associate Curator A. J. Wedderburn, Jr., is engaged in a study of
early daguerreotype portraits which will be completed within the year.

Research by visiting investigators—A number of individuals
worked in the collections. Mrs. Peter MacDonald and Mrs. Richard
Wallis of the Junior League of Washington were assisted in preparing
guided tours of the hall of power machinery. Dr. B. Francis Kuka-
chka of the U. S. Forest Products Laboratory, Madison, Wis., visited
the section of wood technology in connection with his critical investi-
gation of woods of the Sapotaceae. Dr. Louis Marin, Madrid, Spain,
examined our wood collection and studied literature on wood anatomy.
He was particularly interested in photo-micrographs of wood.

David J. Culver, of the Culver Service, New York City, was assisted
in research dealing with the daguerreotype, calotype, and other early
forms of photography, and was furnished with a number of photo-
graphs which later appeared in American Heritage. Gordon Hen-
dricks, who is writing a history of motion picture photography, re-
ceived several days’ assistance in research on this subject during his
visit to the Museum. Irving Browning, president of the Society of
Cinema Historians, was assisted during his visit to the section of
photography to inspect that part of the research collection relating
to the history of motion pictures. Six members of the staff of the
Mariners’ Museum of Newport News, Va., who visited the Museum
to inspect the print collection were advised on methods for storing
and preserving photographic prints.

Among visitors who conducted research in the section of graphic
arts were two from foreign countries: Ercumend Kalmik, Technical
University, Department of Architecture, Istanbul, Turkey, and Jalal
U. Ahmed, Karachi, Pakistan.

History

Civil History.—Associate Curator Margaret Brown Klapthor com-
pleted a paper on umbrellas for the Hncyclopedia Britannica and com-
pleted research for a supplement, on the inaugural dress of Mrs.
Dwight D. Eisenhower, to the Smithsonian publication “The Dresses
of the First Ladies of the White House.” Mrs. Klapthor lectured to
groups in the Washington area on the First Ladies Hall and on cos-
tumes in general, and again lectured on museum techniques of preser-
vation and exhibition at the second annual short course on Historic
Housekeeping, sponsored by the National Trust for Historic Preserva-
tion, in Cooperstown, N. Y. She also acted as consultant to the Na-
tional Park Service on the costumes depicted in the dioramas prepared
for the Jamestown Festival.
INVESTIGATION AND RESEARCH 67

Work has been started on a catalog of the important Copp collec-
tion, of personal and household possessions of the Copp family of
New England. Mrs. Murray and Mr. Dorman have been doing re-
search on specimens in the collection as they prepare the specimens
for exhibition. The collection has archival value because it covers an
early period of national development and it has always remained
together. Mr. Dorman continued work on a descriptive catalog of
American furniture in the collections. Mrs. Murray began a descrip-
tive catalog of the Quaker costumes and accessories, reported to be one
of the finest and most complete in any museum in this country.

Military history.—Acting Curator of Military History Edgar M.
Howell completed his study of Russian guerrilla activity in World
War II. The volume was published by the Department of the Army
under the title, “The Soviet Partisan Movement, 1941-1944.” Mr.
Howell also studied the collections, exhibit techniques, and preserva-
tion methods in the principal military museums of Spain, France,
Austria, Belgium, Norway, Sweden, Denmark, and the United King-
dom. During May, he represented the Smithsonian Institution at the
International Congress of Museums of Arms and Military Equipment
at Copenhagen, Denmark.

Assistant Curator Craddock R. Goins, Jr., continued his studies of
the Edward Maynard firearms and papers.

Naval History.—Acting Head Curator Mendel L. Peterson con-
tinued his study of the marking and decoration of muzzle-loading
cannon, examining collections in Jamaica, Cuba, at Governors Island,
N. Y., and at Boston, Mass. He also continued his study of the life
of Daniel Noble Johnson, purser’s clerk in the U. S. Navy in the early
1840’s, with annotations to Johnson’s journals kept on board the
U.S. 8S. Delaware and Enterprise on the Brazil and Rio del Plata sta-
tions in the years 1841-1848. While on temporary special duty with
the Office of the Chief of Naval Operations, he prepared a paper on
museums in the naval service which is being distributed to ships and
stations through the naval establishment.

Mr. E. A. Link continued his support of the marine archaeology
project with a substantial grant of funds and direction of field work
in Jamaica at the site of Old Port Royal.

Dr. Vladimir Clain-Stefanelli was appointed curator of numis-
matics October 1, 1956. He is continuing his study of American
engravers and medallists, and conducted a brief study of Confeder-
ate currency plates and of emergency paper money issues of 1848 in

Palmanova.
Curator of Philately Franklin R. Bruns, Jr., as one of three philate-

lists, was appointed to the Post Office Department’s Stamp Advisory
68 U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1957

Committee, charged with selecting subject matter and designs for
future United States stamps. He received the 1956 SEPAD (Asso-
ciated Stamp Clubs of Southeastern Pennsylvania and Delaware) for
outstanding national philatelic achievement, and was elected a director
of the Fine Arts Unit of the American Topical Association.

Research by visiting investigators.—Among the outside investiga-
tors assisted in their study of the collections were: The Costumes Com-
mittee of the York County Historical Society; Mrs. Judy Seidenberg,
costumes consultant of the Cabildo, New Orleans, La.; Rear Admiral
W. R. Furlong, U.S. N. (Ret.), who is preparing a book on flags, and
who studied a number of specimens in the collections; and Mr. Harold
Peterson, of the National Park Service, who studied a number of speci-
mens in the collections in the preparation of a volume on American
knives.

Studying the philatelic collections were Morton Dean Joyce, Elliott
Perry, William Maisel, George Slawson, Edward Conger, and Ellery
Denison. Also, representatives of the U.S. Secret Service, the Treas-
ury and Post Office Departments, the Library of Congress, and the
Federal Bureau of Investigation.
Publications

In addition to the Annual Report, the National Museum issued 23
publications based on research in the national collections. Of these,
5 were in the Bulletin series, 17 were in the Proceedings series, and
1 was a Contribution from the United States National Herbarium.

At the close of the year 3 Contributions from the United States Na-
tional Herbarium, 8 Proceedings papers, and the following Bulletins
were in press:

Bulletin 202, vol. 2. Fishes of the Marshall and Marianas Islands, by Leonard
P. Schultz and collaborators: Wilbert M. Chapman, Ernest A. Lachner, Ed-
ward C. Raney, and Loren P. Woods.

Bulletin 211. Life histories of North America blackbirds, orioles, tanagers, and
allies: Order Passeriformes: Families Ploceidae, Icteridae, and Thraupidae,
by Arthur Cleveland Bent.

Bulletin 212. Checklist of the millipeds of North America, by Ralph V. Cham-
berlin and Richard L. Hoffman.

Bulletin 214. A Review of the parrotfishes, family Scaridae, by Leonard P.
Schultz.

Bulletin 215. Studies in Foraminifera, by Alfred R. Loeblich, Jr. and collabo-
rators: J. P. Beckmann, Hans M. Bolli, Hugenia Montanaro Gallitelli, Helen
Tappan, and J. C. Troelsen.

Publications by the staff, including honorary members, totaled 182.
These, listed on pages 71 to 80, were distributed as follows:

Publi- Publi-
Depariment cations Department cations
Anthropelogy 7. im Bat lee, AL 25 History) Cages’ ee kei es 9
Botan yeas? Ons 20, ey yy, O22 SOM LOOLOIY a Mee ee tl te ee a eee OA
Engineering and Industries ... 14 —
Geology soe chee ee 8D. Totals se% ee See eS

Publications of the United States National Museum
July 1956 through June 1957

REPORT

The United States National Museum annual report for the year ended June 30,
1956. Pp. ix+105, illus., January 18, 1957.

BULLETINS

Bulletin 185, part 6. Checklist of the coleopterous insects of Mexico, Central
America, the West Indies, and South America, by Richard E. Blackwelder.
Pp. vili++-927-1492, May 15, 1957.

69
70 U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1957

Bulletin 207. American moths of the subfamily Phycitinae, by Carl Heinrich.
Quarto, pp. viii+-581, figs. 1188, September 18, 1956.

Bulletin 209. Nearctic wasps of the subfamilies Pepsinae and Ceropalinae, by
Henry Townes. Pp. iv-+286, figs. 161, pls. 4, March 11, 1957.

Bulletin 210. The first quarter-century of steam locomotives in North America:
Remaining relics and operable replicas, with a catalog of locomotive models
in the United States National Museum, by Smith Hempstone Oliver. Pp. 112,
figs. 81, front., August 6, 1956.

Bulletin 213. Automobiles and motorcycles in the U. S. National Museum, by
Smith Hempstone Oliver. Pp. 157, figs. 103, front., June 25, 1957.

PAPERS PUBLISHED IN SEPARATE FORM

FROM VOLUME 32, CONTRIBUTIONS FROM THE U. S. NATIONAL HERBARIUM
Part 2. A revision of the genus Nissolia, by Velva E. Rudd. Pp. iii+-173-206,
figs. 3, November 7, 1956.

PROCEEDINGS

From VOLUME 104 oF THE PROCEEDINGS
Title page, table of contents, and index. Pp. i—iv, 651-694, June 5, 1957.

FRomM VOLUME 106 oF THE PROCEEDINGS

No. 3364. Chiggers of the genus Huschéngastia (Acarina: Trombiculidae) in
North America, by Charles HE. Farrell. Pp. 85-235, figs. 8, pls. 21, October
19, 1956.

No. 3365. A new pinecone fish, Monocentris reedi, from Chile, a new family
record for the eastern Pacific, by Leonard P. Schultz. Pp. 287-239, pls. 1,
July 24, 1956.

No. 3366. Some crickets from South America (Grylloidea and Tridactyloidea),
by Lucien Chopard. Pp. 241-293, figs. 6, September 20, 1956.

No. 3367. The Nearctic species of trigonalid wasps, by Henry Townes. Pp. 295-
304, figs. 1, October 16, 1956.

No. 3368. Latheticomyia, a new genus of acalyptrate flies of uncertain family
relationship, by Marshall R. Wheeler. Pp. 305-314, figs. 2, October 22, 1956.

No. 3369. A tribal revision of the Brachycyrtine wasps of the world (Cryp-
tinae—Ichneumonidae), by Luella M. Walkley. Pp. 315-829, figs. 1, October
16, 1956.

No. 3370. A new species of Candacia (Copepoda: Calanoida) from the western
North Atlantic Ocean, by Abraham Fleminger and Thomas E. Bowman.
Pp. 331-337, figs. 2, October 15, 1956.

No. 3371. Emended description and assignment to the new genus Ronalea of
the idotheid isopod Hrichsoneila pseudoculata Boone, by Robert J. Menzies
and Thomas #. Bowman. Pp. 339-348, figs. 1, October 17, 1956.

No. 3372. Observations on the amphipod genus Parhyale, by Clarence R. Shoe-
maker. Pp. 345-358, figs. 4, October 15, 1956.

No. 3373. A revision of the acrocerid flies of the genus Pialea Erichson with a
discussion of their sexual dimorphism (Diptera), by Evert I. Schlinger.
Pp. 359-375, figs. 4, October 12, 1956.

No. 3374. Further data on African parasitic cuckoos, by Herbert Friedmann.
Pp. 377-408, pls. 4, October 24, 1956.

No. 3375. Studies in Neotropical Mallophaga, XVI: Bird lice of the suborder
Ischnocera, by M. A. Carriker, Jr. Pp. 409-439, figs. 9, January 380, 1957.
PUBLICATIONS 71

No. 3376. A new genus and species of marine asellote isopod, Oaecianiropsis
psammophila, from California, by Robert J. Menzies and Jean Pettit. Pp.
441-446, figs. 3, November 2, 1956.

No. 33877. Mammals of the Anglo-Egyptian Sudan, by Henry W. Setzer. Pp.
447-587, figs. 10, November 28, 1956.

FRoM VOLUME 107 oF THE PROCEEDINGS

No. 3378. A new species of Mysidopsis (Crustacea: Mysidacea) from the south-
eastern coast of the United States, by Thomas BE. Bowman. Pp. 1-7, figs. 2,
February 15, 1957.

No. 3379. Rhynobrissus cuneus, a new echinoid from North Carolina, by C.
Wythe Cooke. Pp. 9-12, pls. 1, June 18, 1957.

No. 3380. Formosan cossonine weevils of bamboo (Coleoptera: Curculionidae:
Cossoninae), by Elwood C. Zimmerman. Pp. 13-23, figs. 2, March 25, 1957.
Publications by Members of the Staff
of the
United States National Museum

July 1956 through June 1957

Allard, H. A., and Leonard, E. C. Some
vascular plants collected in and near
the township of Oxford, Worcester
County, Massachusetts. Castanea,
vol. 21, No. 3, pp. 125-128, September
1956.

Bayer, Frederick M. Octocorallia. In
Treatise on Invertebrate Paleontol-
ogy. Part F. Coelenterata, pp. 163—
231, figs. 184-162, 1956.

Berman, Alex, and Griffenhagen,
George. Scenes from the history of
hospital pharmacy. Journ. Amer.
Pharmaceut. Assoc. (Practical Phar-
macy ed.). vol. 18, pp. 238-239, figs.
4, April 1957.

Bowman, Thomas E. Una _ especie
nueva de Bopyrella (Crustacea: Iso-
poda) de Los Roques, Venezuela.
Novedades Cientificas del Museo de
Hist6ria Natural La Salle, Ser. Zool.,
No. 19, pp. 1-4, 1 fig., 1956.

A new species of Mysidopsis

(Crustacea: Mysidacea) from the

southeastern coast of the United

States. Proc. U. 8. Nat. Mus., vol.

107, No. 3378, pp. 1-7, 2 figs., Febru-

ary 15, 1957.

(See under Fleminger, Abraham,
and also Menzies, Robert J.)

Bruns, Franklin R., Jr. Stamps, Post-
age. Encyclopaedia Britannica book
of the year, 1957 Edition.

The “Roosevelt” stamps. Ma-

sonic Philatelist, vol. 18, No. 8, pp.

4-5, 1957.

Seott’s advance pages show

many price increases. Mekeel’s

Weekly Stamp News, vol. 87, No. 11,

p. 81, 1956.

72

Scott’s advance sheets, vol. 2.
Mekeel’s Weekly Stamp News, vol.
86, No. 12, p. 90, 1956.

The new Museum of History and
Technology. Stamps, vol. 97, No. 9,
pp. 338-339, 1956.

Carriker, M. A., Jr. Studies in Neo-
tropical Mallophaga XII (part 4):
Lice of the Tinamous. Bol. Ent.
Venezolana, vol. 11, nos. 3 and 4, pp.
1-35, 18 figs., 1955.

Studies in Neotropical Mallo-
phaga XIII: The Menoponidae of
the Neotropical Psittacidae. Rev.
Brasil. Ent., vol. 2, p. 145-178,
1954.

——. Hstudios sobre Mallophaga Neo-
tropicales (XIV) (Piojos de las Cot-
ingidae) (“Studies in Neotropical
Mallophaga-Lice of the Cotingidae’’).
Revista de la Academia Colombiana
de Ciéncias, vol. 9, Nos. 36 and 37,
pp. 365-380, 1956.

Neotropical Mallophaga miscel-

lany, No. 9. A new genus and spe-

cies. Revista Brasil. Ent., vol. 5, pp.

111-145, May 25, 1956.

Report on a collection of Mallo-

phaga, largely Mexican (Part II).

Florida Ent., vol. 39, No. 1, pp. 19-

43, March 1956.

Report on a collection of Mal-

lophaga, largely Mexican (Part II).

Florida Ent., vol. 39, No. 2, pp. 69-84,

June 1956.

Report on a collection of Mal-

lophaga, largely Mexican (Part II).

Florida Ent., vol. 39, No. 3, pp. 119-

132, September 1956.

PUBLICATIONS

——. Studies in Neotropical Mal-
lophaga, XVI: Bird lice of the sub-
order Ischnocera. Proc. U. S. Nat.
Mus., vol. 106, No. 3375, pp. 409-439,
9 figs., January 30, 1957.

Chace, Fenner A. Jr. Porcellanid
crabs. Expédition océanographique
Belge dans les eaux cétiéres afri-
caines de l’Atlantique sud (1949-
1949). Résultats scientifiques, vol. 3,
fase. 5, pp. 1-54, 14 figs., 1956.

—. Crustaceos decapodos y stoma-
topodos del Archipiélago de Los
Roques e Isla de La Orchila. In El
Archipiélago de Los Roques y La Or-
chila, pp. 145-168, 4 pls., 1956.

Clarke, J. F. Gates. Microlepidoptera
of Argentina, VI (Oecophoridae).
Ent. News, vol. 67 (10), pp. 253-256,
illus., 1956.

——. The Frank Morton Jones collec-
tion of Psychidae. Ent. News, vol. 67
(8), p. 217, 1956.

Cloud, Preston E., Jr. Paleontology
and the next hundred years. Journ.
Paleon. Soc. India, vol. 1, No. 1, pp.
215-217, 1956.

—. Provisional correlation of se-
lected Cenozoic sequences in the
western and central Pacific. Proc.
Eighth Pacific Sci. Congr., vol. 2, pp.
555-574, August 1956.

——, Schmidt, Robert George, and
Burke, Harold W. Geology of Saipan,
Mariana Islands. U. S. G. S. Prof.
Paper 280—A, 126 pp., 10 figs., 25 pls.,
11 tables, 1 chart, December 1956.

——, and Barnes, Virgil E. Early Or-
dovician sea in central Texas. Geol.
Soc. Amer., Mem. 67, vol. 2, pp. 163-
214, 3 figs., 1 table, March 1957.

——, Blackmon, Paul D., and Sisler,
Frederick D. Calcium carbonate dis-
position west of Andros Island, Ba-
hamas (abstract). Prog. 31st Ann.
Meet., Soc. Econ. Petrol. Mineral., St.
Louis, pp. 57-58.

Cochran, Doris M. A new species of
frog from British Guiana. Zoologica,
New York, vol. 41, part 1, pp. 11-12,
1 fig., 1956.

(See under Smith, Hobart M.)

Conger, Paul S. Lesson of the diatoms.

73

Amer. Biol. Teacher, vol. 18, No. 6,
pp. 187-193, 6 illus., October 1956.
Cooke, C. Wythe. Rhynobrissus cu-
neus, a new echinoid from North
Carolina. Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., vol.
107, No. 3379, pp. 9-12, 1 pl., June 18,

1957.

Annotated bibliography of ma-
rine paleoecology. Echinoids of the
post-Paleozoic. Geol. Soc. Amer.
Mem. 67, pp. 981-982, 1957.

Cooper, G. Arthur. New Pennsylvanian
brachiopods. Journ. Paleontol., vol.
30, No. 3, pp. 521-530, pl. 6, 1956.

Loop development of the Penn-

sylvanian terebratulid Cryptacanthia.

Smithsonian Misc. Coll., vol. 134, No.

3 (publ. 4267), pp. 18, 12 figs., 2 pls.,

1957.

Study of the Wolfcamp and re-
lated faunas of the Glass Mountains,
Texas. Soc. Econ. Paleontol. and

Mineral., Permian Basin Sec., Guide-

book for 1957, pp. 8-12, 1957.

Paleoecology of Middle Devonian

of eastern and central United States.

Treatise on Marine Ecology and

Paleoecology, vol. 2, Paleoecology,

Geol. Soc. Amer., Mem. 67, pp. 249-

277, 1957.

Annotated bibliography of ma-
rine paleoecology. Geol. Soc. Amer.,
Mem. 67, Brachiopods, pp. 801-804;
Asterozoa of the Paleozoic, pp. 973-
974; Echinoids of the Paleozoic, pp.
979-980, 1957.

Cowan, Richard S. Leguminosae. In
Maguire et al, The botany of the
Guayana Highland—Part II. Mem.
New York Bot. Garden, vol. 9, No. 3,
pp. 386-351, figs. 64-65, May 23, 1957.

Crabill, R. E. New Missouri chilopod
records with remarks concerning
geographical affinities. Journ. New
York Ent. Soc., vol. 63, pp. 153-159,
October 1956.

Cuatrecasas, José. The American
species of Dacryodes. Tropical
Woods, No. 106, pp. 46-65, figs. 1-4.
April, 1947.

Prima flora Colombiana. 1. Bur-

seraceae. Webbia, vol. 12, No. 2, pp.

435-441, figs. 1-10, March 21, 1957.

74

Deignan, H. G. A final word on the
nomenclature of the Himalayan gold-
crests. Bull. British Ornith. Club.
vol. 76, p. 106, 1956.

—. The Asiatic species of birds of
the genus Criniger (Pycnonotidae).
Smithsonian Mise. Coll., vol. 134, No.
2 (publ. 4266) 9 pp., October 25, 1956.

——. New races of birds from Laem
Thong, the golden chersonese. Proc.
Biol. Soc., Washington, vol. 69, pp.
207-214, 1956.

—. Eastern races of the white
Tumped swift, Apus  pacificus
(Latham). Bull. Raffles Mus., vol.
27, pp. 147-148, 1956.

—. Review of pheasants in North
America. Atlantic Naturalist, vol.
12, p. 72, 1956.

——. A new flycatcher from south-
eastern Asia, with remarks on
Muscicapa. latitrostris Raffles. Ibis.,
vol. 99, pp. 340-344, 1957.

——. The races of the longtail Prinia
polychroa (Temminck), with the de-
scription of a new race from southern
Annam. Bull. British Ornith. Club,
vol. 77, pp. 24, 25, 1957.

——. A new race of leafbird from
Indochina. Bull. British Ornith.
Club, vol. 76, p. 96, 1956.

——,, Harrison, J. M., and Grant, C. H. B.
A memorandum on the name Corvus
monedule spermologus Vieillot. Bull.
British Ornith. Club, vol. 78, No. 7,
pp. 110-112, 1956.

Duncan, H., Loeblich, A. R., Jr., and
Moore, R. C. Proposed validation
under the plenary powers of “Fistuli-
pora” McCoy, 1849 (class Bryozoa,
order Cyclostomata, family Fistuli-
poridae). Bull. Zool. Nomencl., vol.
11, pt. 5, pp. 155-157, 1955.

Dunkle, David H. The world of the
dinosaurs. Smithsonian Inst. Publ.
4296, 22 pp., 1957.

—— and Schaeffer, Bobb. Preliminary
description of a paleoniscoid fish
from the late Paleozoic of Brazil.
Bol. Fac. Filos., Cienc., e Lett. Univ.
Sio Paulo, No. 193, Geol. No. 13, pp.
5-22, 5 figs., 1956.

—— and Mamay, Sergius H. An acan-
thodian fish from the lower Permian

U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1957

of Texas. Journ. Washington Acad.
Sci., vol. 46, No. 10, pp. 308-310, 1 fig.,
1956.

Evans, Clifford. Tendéncias actuales
de la investigacién arqueologica en
America Latina. Ciéncias Sociales,
vol. 7, No. 38, pp. 85-95, 1956.

The culture area concept in an

exhibition of Latin American archae-

ology, United States National Mu-
seum, Washington. (Text in English

and French). Museum, vol. 9, No. 4,

pp. 215-225, 1956.

(See under Meggers, Betty J.,
1956).

—— and Meggers, Betty J. Formative
period cultures in the Guayas Basin,
Coastal Ecuador. Amer. Antiq., vol.
22, No. 3, pp. 235-247, 1957.

and Meggers, Betty J. Archaeol-
ogy of western and southern South
America. Handbook of Latin Ameri-
ean Studies, No. 19, Univ. Florida
Press, pp. 24-36, 1957.

Ewers, John C. George Catlin, painter
of Indians and the West. Ann. Rep.
Smithsonian Inst. for 1955, pp. 483—
528, 1 fig., 20 pls., 1956.

Basket. Encyclopedia Britan-

nica, 1957 edition, vol. 3, pp. 177-180,

figs. 2, pl. 1.

Kiowa Indians. Encyclopedia

Americana, 1956 edition, vol. 15. p.

452.

The Assiniboin horse medicine
cult. Anthrop. Quart., vol. 29, No. 3,
pp. 57-68, July 1956.

The Gun of Sitting Bull. The

Beaver, pp. 20-23, pls. 4, winter 1956.

Three ornaments worn by Upper

Missouri Indians a century and a

quarter ago. New York Hist. Soc.

Quart., vol. 41, No. 1, pp. 25-33, pls. 6,

January 1957.

Early white influence upon
Plains Indian painting. George Cat-
lin and Carl Bodmer among the Man-
dan, 1832-34. Smithsonian Misc.
Coll., vol. 184, No. 7 (publ. 4292),
11 pp., 12 pls., April 24, 1957.

Fleminger, Abraham, and Bowman,
Thomas E. A new species of Can-
dacia (Copepoda: Calanoida) from
the western North Atlantic Ocean.

PUBLICATIONS

Proce. U. 8. Nat. Mus., vol. 106, No.
8370, pp. 331-837, 2 figs., October 15,
1956.

Friedmann, Herbert. Further data on
African parasitic cuckoos. Proc.
U. S. Nat. Mus., vol. 106, No. 3374,
pp. 337-408, 4 pls. October 24, 1956.

New light on the dodo and its

illustrators. Ann. Rep. Smithsonian

Inst. for 1955, pp. 475-481, 5 pls., 1956.

and Kern, Jerome. Micrococcus
cerolyticus, nov. sp., an aerobic lipo-
lytic organism isolated from the
African honey-guide. Canadian
Journ. Microbiology, vol. 2, pp. 515-
517, 1956.

Gazin, C. Lewis. The occurrence of
Paleocene mammalian remains in the
Fossil Basin of southwestern Wyo-
ming. Journ. Paleontol., vol. 30, No.
3, pp. 707-711, 1 fig., July 20, 1956.

The upper Paleocene Mammalia

from the Almy formation in western

Wyoming. Smithsonian Mise. Coll.,

vol. 131, No. 7, 18 pp., 2 pls., July 31.

1956.

aT

The geology and _ vertebrate

paleontology of upper Eocene strata

in the northeastern part of the Wind

River Basin, Wyoming. Part 2. The

mammalian fauna of the Badwater

area. Smithsonian Mise. Coll., vol.

131, No. 8 (publ. 4257), 35 pp., 1 fig.,

3 pls., October 30, 1956.

A skull of the Bridger middle

Eocene creodont, Patriofelis ulta

Leidy. Smithsonian Mise. Coll., vol.

134, No. 8 (publ. 4293), 20 pp., 4 pls.,

April 30, 1957.

(Activities of the division of
vertebrate paleontology of the U. S.
National Museum). Soe. Vert. Pa-
leontol. News Bull., No. 48, pp. 16-17,
1956 ; No. 49, p. 12; No. 50, p. 12, 1957.

Griffenhagen, George B. Pharmacy
museums. Amer. Institute of the
History of Pharm., Madison, Wis.,
1956, pp. 1-51, 14 illus.

——. Tools of the apothecary. Amer.
Pharmaceut. Assoc., pp. 1-30, illus.
77, 1957. Reprinted from the Journ.
Amer. Pharmaceut. Assoc. (Practical

437255—57—6

75

Pharmacy ed.), vol. 17, pp. 112, 113,
152-1538, 240-241, 402-403, 464-465,
530-531, 594-595, 670-671, 678, 740-
742, 810-813, February—April, June—
December, 1956.

——. The origin of the show globe as a
symbol of pharmacy. Amer. Drug-
gist, vol. 134, pp. 9-11, figs. 14, Novem-
ber 5, 1956.

The ceramic apothecary jar, a
brief history and evolution. Amer.
Professional Pharmacist, vol. 22, pp.
890-895, 916-17, figs. 12, October 1956.

——, The ceramic drug jar. Spinning
Wheel, vol. 18, pp. 20-21, figs. 9, Feb-
ruary 1957.

The lost art of plaster spread-
ing. Amer. Professional Pharmacist,
vol. 23, pp. 1389-148, figs. 8, February
1957.

——. The mortar and pestle. Rexall
Reporter, vol. 2, p. 8, July 1956; p. 5,
August 1956; and p. 5, September
1956.

——. Pharmacy in Jamestown, 1607-
1689. Journ. Amer. Pharmaceut.
Assoe. (Practical Pharmacy ed.),
vol. 18, pp. 4445, figs. 5, January
1957.

and Hughes, Calvin H. The his-

tory of the mechanical heart. Ann.

Rep. Smithsonian Inst. for 1955, pp.

339-356, 4 pls. 1956.

and Berman, Alex.
Berman, Alex.)

Handley, Charles O., Jr. A third speci-
men of the shrew Notiosorer from
Oklahoma. Journ. Mammalogy, vol.
37, No. 2, p. 278, June 1956.

Bat versus ant. Journ. Mam-

malogy, vol. 37, No. 2, p. 279, June

1956.

(See under

Mammal bones from West Vir-
ginia caves. Amer. Midland Nat.,
vol. 56, No. 1, pp. 250-256, July 1956.
The shrew Soreg dispar in Vir-
ginia. Journ. Mammalogy, vol. 37,
No. 3, p. 485, September 1956.

The northernmost nesting of the
rough-legged hawk in North America.
Wilson Bull., vol. 68, No. 3, pp. 246—
248, September 1956.

76

Handley, Charles O., Jr. The new
species of free-tailed bat (genus
Mormopterus) from Peru. Proc.
Biol. Soc. Washington, vol. 69, pp.
197-202, December 31, 1956.

——. A new species of murine opossum
(genus Marmosa) from Peru. Journ.
Washington Acad. Sci., vol. 46, No.
12, pp. 402-404, February 1957.

—. (See under Mumford, Russell,
E.)

Henderson, E. P. The Loreto, Baja
California, meteorite and its simi-
larity to the Morito, Chihuahua,
Mexico, meteorite. Meteoritics, vol.
1, No. 4, pp. 477-488, 1956.

— and Monnig, Oscar E. The Rich-
land, Navarro County, Texas, meteor-
ite, a new hexahedrite. Meteoritics,
vol. 1, No. 4, pp. 459-469, 1956.

and Furcron, A. S. Meteorites in
Georgia (Part I). Georgia Mineral
Newsletter, vol. 9, No. 4, pp. 126-135,
1957.

Howell, Edgar. The Soviet partisan
movement, 1941-1944. Dep. of the
Army Pamphlet, No. 20-244, U. S.
Gov. Printing Office, pp. x+217, 4
charts, 10 maps, 1956.

Johnson, David H. An early record of
a marsupial in Ceylon. Journ. Mam-
malogy, vol. 37, No. 2, p. 274, June
1956.

(See under Jones, J. Knox, Jr.)

Jones, J. Knox, Jr., and Johnson, David
H. Comments on two species of red-
back voles, genus Clethrionomys, from
Korea and Manchuria. Chicago
Acad. Sci. Nat. Hist. Mise., No. 157,
157, pp. 1-38, October 1956.

Kainen, Jacob. John Baptist Jackson
and his chiaroscuros. Printing and
Graphic Arts, vol. 4, pp. 85-92, illus.,
December 1956. (Condensed excerpt
from larger study in progress.)

Kellogg, Remington. What and where
are the whitetails? In: The Deer of
North America, edited by Walter P.
Taylor, published by the Stackpole
Company, Harrisburg, Pa., and The
Wildlife Management Institute,
Washington, D. C., pp. 31-55, 1 fig., 1
map, 1956.

U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1957

Kellogg, Remington, and Whitmore,
Frank C. Mammals. Paleoecology.
In Harry S. Ladd, editor, Treatise
on marine ecology and paleoecology.
Geol. Soc. America, Mem. 67, pp. 1021—
1024, March 25, 1957.

Kunze, Albert F. The Haitian new
army series. A tale of two republics.
American Philatelist, vol. 70, No. 4,
pp. 261-267, 1957.

Lachner, Ernest A. The changing fish
fauna of the Upper Ohio Basin. Spec.
Publ. Pymatuning Lab. Field Biol.,
Univ. Pittsburg, No. 1, pp. 64-78, 1956.

Leonard, E. C. (See under Allard,
H. A.)

Loeblich, A. R., Jr. News report,
United States—Eastern. Micropa-
leontology, vol. 2, No. 1, pp. 98-101,
1956.

——. The types of Lamarck’s genera
of Foraminifera as selected by J. G.
Children in 1828. Micropaleontology,
vol. 2, No. 3, pp. 303-304, 1956.

(See under Duncan, H.)

and Tappan, H. Planktonie Fora-
minifera versus the Cretaceous-
Tertiary boundary; the Paleocene
and lower Eocene of the Atlantic and
Gulf Coastal Plains. Trans. Gulf
Coast Assoc. Geol. Soc., vol. 6, p. 178,
1956.

—— and Tappan, H. Chiloguembelina,
a new Tertiary genus of the Hetero-
helicidae (Foraminifera). Journ.
Washington Acad. Sci., vol. 46, No.
11, p. 340, 1956.

and Tappan, H. Woodringina, a

new foraminiferal genus (Heteroheli-

cidae) from the Paleocene of Ala-
bama. Journ. Washington Acad. Sci.,

vol. 47, No. 2, pp. 39-40, 1 fig., 1957.

and Tappan, H. The new plank-
tonic foraminiferal genus, Tinopho-
della, and an emendation of Globi-
gerinita Bronnimann. Journ. Wash-
ington Acad. Sci., vol. 47, No. 4, pp.
112-116, 3 figs., 1957.

McCall, Francis J. Operation Deep-
freeze covers. Stamps, vol. 96, No. 6,
p. 167, 1956.

Gems of proofdom. Amer. Phi-

latelic Congress Book, pp. 133-148,

206, 1957.

PUBLICATIONS

McClure, F. A. Bamboo in the economy
of Oriental peoples. Economic Bot-
any, vol. 10, No. 4, pp. 335-361, figs.
17, October—December, 1956.

The taxonomic conquest of the

bamboos with notes on their silvicul-

tural status in the Americas. Food
and Agriculture Organization of the

United Nations. Tropical Silvicul-

ture, Rome, vol. 2, pp. 304-308, 1957.

Bamboos of the genus Phyjllo-
stachys under cultivation in the
United States, with a key for their
field identification. U.S. Dep. Agric.,
Agricultural Handbook 114, pp. 1-72,
1957.

Meggers, Betty J. (editor, with Beards-
ley, Richard K., Holder, Preston,
Krieger, Alex D., and Rinaldo, John
B.). Functional and evolutionary
implications of community pattern-
ing. Soc. Amer. Archaeology Memoir
11, Amer. Antiq., vol. 22, No. 2, Part
2, pp. 129-157, 1956.

— and Evans, Clifford. The recon-
struction of settlement patterns in
the South American tropical forest.
In Prehistoric settlement patterns in
the New World. Viking Fund Pub-
lications in Anthrop., No. 23, New
York, pp. 156-164, 1956.

(See under Evans, Clifford, 1957)

Menzies, Robert J. and Bowman,
Thomas E. Emended description and
assignment to the new genus Ronalea
of the idotheid isopod Hrichsonella
pseudoculata Boone. Proc. U.S. Nat.
Mus., vol. 106, No. 3371, pp. 339-343,
1 fig., October 17, 1956.

Morton, C. V. Tree-ferns in western
Mexico. Amer. Fern Journ., vol. 46,
No. 4, pp. 146-148, October-December
1956.

A new name for an Asplenium
hybrid. Amer. Fern Journ., vol. 46,
No. 4, pp. 152-155, October-December
1956.

——. Hart’s-tongue in Michigan again.
Amer. Fern Journ., vol. 46, No. 4, pp.
157-158, October-December 1956.

——. A species of Rechesteineria new
to science and to cultivation. The
Gloxinian, vol. 6, No. 8, pp. 14-16,
figs., November—December 1956.

V7

Three new Gesneriaceae from
Panama. Proc. Biol. Soc. Washing-
ton, vol. 69, pp. 193-196, December
31, 1956.

——. The misuse of the term taxon.
Rhodora, vol. 59, pp. 43-44, January
1957.

Pteridophyta. In Steyermark,
Contributions to the flora of Vene-
zuela. Wieldiana: Bot., vol. 28, No.
4, pp. 719-757, January 11, 1957.

Gesneriaceae. In Steyermark,
Contributions to the flora of Vene-
zuela. Fieldiana: Bot., vol. 28, No. 4,
pp. 1092-1094, January 11, 1957.

——. Observations on cultivated ferns,
I. Amer. Fern Journ., vol. 47, No. 1,
pp. 7-14, January—Marech 1957.

Muesebeck, C. F. W. A braconid para-
site of a psocid. Proe. Ent. Soe.
Washington, vol. 58, No. 3, pp. 148-
149, June 1956.

New World Apanteles parasitic
on Diatraea (Hymenoptera: Bra-
conidae). Ent. News., vol. 68, No. 1,
pp. 19-25, January 1957.

Multhauf, Robert P. The significance
of distillation in Renaissance medical
chemistry. Bull. Hist. Med., vol. 30,
No. 4, pp. 329-346, July-August, 1956.

Mumford, Russell E., and Handley,
Charles O., Jr. Notes on the mam-
mals of Jackson County, Indiana.
Journ. Mammalogy, vol. 37, No. 3, pp.
407-412, September 1956.

Nicol, David. The taxonomic signifi-
cance of gaps in pelecypod morphol-
ogy. Systematic Zoology, vol. 5, No.
3, p. 148, Sept. 1956.

Distribution of living glycym-
erids, with a new species from
Bermuda. The Nautilus, vol. 70, No.
2, pp. 48-53, 1 text fig., pl. 3, figs. 1-2,
Oct. 1956.

Oliver, Smith Hempstone. The first
quarter-century of steam locomotives
in North America: Remaining relics
and operable replicas, with a catalog
of locomotive models in the United
States National Museum. U. S. Nat.
Mus. Bull. 210, pp. 112, figs. 81, front.,
August 6, 1956.

78

Oliver, Smith Hempstone. Automobiles
and motorcycles in the U. 8. National
Museum. U. S. Nat. Mus. Bull. 218,
pp. 157, figs. 103, front., June 25, 1957.
(Revision and expansion of Bull.
198.)

Parfin, S. Taxonomic notes on Kim-
minsia (Neuroptera, Hemerobiidae).
Proc. Ent. Soc. Washington, 58 (4),
pp. 203-209, 1956.

Rudd, Velva E. A revision of the genus
Nissolia. Contr. U. S. Nat. Herb.,
vol. 32, pt. 2, pp. 173-206, nate 1-3,
November 7, 1956.

Schultz, Leonard P. A new pitanel..
fish, Monocentris reedi, from Chile, a
new family record for the eastern
Pacific. Proc. U. S. Nat: Mus., vol.
106, No. 3365, pp. 237-239, pl. 1, July
24, 1956.

——. The generic names Barbus and
Puntius. Tropical Fish Hobbyist, No.
4, pp. 14-15; 29-31, fig., 1957.

, Vorderwinkler, William, and Tim-

merman, Gerard J. M. Barbs. Trop-

ical Fish Hobbyist Publications, 26

pp., 20 figs, 1957.

(See under Whitern, Wilfred.)

Setzer, Henry W. Mammals of the
Anglo-Egyptian Sudan. Proce. U. S.
Nat. Mus., vol. 106, No. 3877, pp.
447-587, 10 figs., November 28, 1956.

Two new gerbils from Libya.

Proc. Biol. Soc. Washington, vol. 69,

pp. 179-182, December 31, 1956.

A new jird from Libya. Proc.

Biol. Soc. Washington, vol. 69, pp.

205-206, December 31, 1956.

An extra tooth in Orocidura.
Journ. Mammalogy, vol. 38, No. 2, pp.
258-259, illus., May 1947.

Setzler, Frank M., and Fairbanks,
Charles H. Introduction—Archeol-
ogy of the funeral mound, Ocmulgee
National Monument, Georgia. Ar-
cheol. Res. Series, No. 8, National
Park Service, Washington, 1956.

—. Preface to: Archaeology of the
Uyak Site, Kodiak Island, Alaska, by
Robert F’. Heizer. Anthrop. Records,
Univ. Calif., vol. 17, No. 1, p. iii, 1956.

(See under Trotter, Mildred.)

Shoemaker, Clarence R. Observations
on the amphipod genus Parhyale.

U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1957

Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., vol. 106, No.
3372, pp. 345-358, 4 figs., October 15,
1956.

——. Notes on the amphipods Hury-
thenes gryllus (Lichtenstein) and
Katius obesus Chevreux. Proc. Biol.
Soc. Washington, vol. 69, pp. 177-178,
1956.

Smith, A.C. Studies of South American
plants, XV. Amer. Journ. Bot., vol.
43, No. 8, pp. 5738-577, October 1956.

Smith, Hobert M., and Cochran, Doris
M. Callisauris draconoides rhodo-
stictus Cope revised for the western
fringe-footed lizard, Callisauris dra-
conoides gabbi Cope. Herpetologica,
vol. 12, pp. 1538-154.

Smith, Lyman B. Bromeliaceae of Suri-
name. Acta Bot. Neerl., vol. 5, No. 1,
pp. 90-93, figs. 1-3, May 1956. Re-
printed without change in pagination
in Meded. Bot. Mus. Herb. Rijksuniv.
Utrecht, No. 132, 1956.

Notes on Bromeliaceae, VII.

Phytologia, vol. 5, No. 8, pp. 394400,

figs. 1-12, June 19, 1956.

“Dinosaur of plants” shown in

mural. Chicago Nat. Hist. Mus. Bull.,

vol. 27, No. 8, p. 5, illus., August 1956.

Reprinted in: Bromel. Soc. Bull., vol.

6, No. 5, p. 69, fig. 1, September—

October 1956.

A new Hohenbergia from Ja-

maica. Bromel. Soc. Bull., vol. 6, No.

4, p. 52, fig. 1, July-August [October]

1956.

Notes on Bromeliaceae, VIII.
Phytologia, vol. 5, No. 9, pp. 401-403,
figs. 1-8, October 1956.
Bromeliaceae. In Steyermark,
Contributions to the flora of Vene-
zuela. Fieldiana: Bot., vol. 28, No.
4, pp. 828-831, January 11, 1957.
Bromeliaceae. In Maguire et al.,
The botany of the Guayana High-
land—Part II. Mem. New York Bot.
Garden, vol. 9, No. 3, pp. 283-318, figs.
13-62, May 23, 1957.

——. Bromeliaceae. In Maguire et al.,
Botany of the Chimantéi Massif—I.
Gran Sabana, Venezuela. Mem. New
York Bot. Garden, vol. 9, No. 3, pp.
414422, figs. 78-86, May 23, 1957.
PUBLICATIONS

Trubiacearum. Sellowia, No. 7, pp. 87-

92, May 22, 1956.

. and Downs, Robert J. Resumo

preliminar das rubiaceas de Santa

Catarina. Sellowia, No. 7, pp. 13-87,

figs. 1-30, May 22, 1956.

, and Schubert, Bernice G. Begon-
iaceae. In Steyermark, Contribu-
tions to the flora of Venezuela.
Fieldiana: Bot., vol. 28, No. 4, pp.
997-999, January 11, 1957.

——, and Schubert, Bernice G. Be-
goniaceae. In Maguire et al., The
botany of the Guayana Highland—
Part II. Mem. New York Bot. Gar-
den, vol. 9, No. 3, pp. 353-355, fig. 65a,
May 23, 1957.

Snodgrass, Robert Evans. Anatomy of
the honey bee. Ithaca, New York,
Comstock publishing associates, 334
pp., illus., 1956.

Crustacean metamorphoses.
Smithsonian Misc. Coll., vol. 131, No.
10 (publ. 4260), 78 pp., 28 figs., Octo-
ber 17, 1956.

Stewart, T. D. El cuerpo humano y el
ambiente. Universidad Nacional
Mayor de San Marcos de Lima, EHs-
cuela de Altos Estudios, Homenaje
al IV Centario de la Fundacién de la
Universidad 1551-1951, Conferencia
de Ciencias Antropolégicas. I. Actas
y trabajos, pp. 108-116 (not dated,
received in September 1955 but over-
looked in the last listing of publica-
tions).

Skeletal remains from Xochi:

caleo, Morelos. In Estudios antro-

polégicas, publicados en homenaje el
doctor Manuel Gamio, Mexico, pp.

131-156, 1956.

Significance of osteitis in an-
cient Peruvian trephining. Bull.
Hist. Medicine, vol. 30, No. 4, pp. 293-
320, July—August 1956.

——. Examination of the possibility
that certain skeletal characters pre-
dispose to defects in the lumbar
neural arches. Clinical Orthopaedics,
No. 8, pp. 44-60, 1956.

» and Downs, Robert J. Notulae | ——.

79

Physical anthropology. Hand-
book of Latin American Studies, No.
19 (1953-55), Univ. Florida Press,
pp. 538-60, 1957.

Swallen, Jason R. New grasses from
Santa Catarina. Sellowia, No. 7, pp.
7-12, fig. 1, May 22, 1956.

Gramineae. In Steyermark,
Contributions to the flora of Vene-
zuela. YFieldiana: Bot., vol. 28, No.
4, pp. 773-789, January 11, 1957.

——. Gramineae. In Maguire et al.,
The botany of the Guayana High-
land—Part II. Mem. New York Bot.
Garden, vol. 9, No. 3, pp. 237-278, figs.
1-12, May 23, 1957.

Gramineae. In Maguire et al.,

Botany of the Chimanta Massif—I.

Gran Sabana, Venezuela. Mem. New

York Bot. Garden, vol. 9, No. 3, pp.

393-408, figs. 74-87, May 23, 1957.

Switzer, George. Thirty-first annual
report on the diamond industry, 1955.
Jewelers’ Circular-Keystone, vol. 126,
16 pp., 1956.

Hydrocuprite discredited.
Amer. Mineral., vol. 42, Nos. 1 and 2,
p. 115, 1957.

Tappan, H.
A. R. Jr.)

Taylor, Walter W. Some implications
of the carbon-14 dates from a cave in
Coahuila, Mexico. Bull. Texas
Archeol. Soc., vol. 27, pp. 215-234,
October 1956.

Trotter, Mildred, Duggins, Oliver H.,
and Setzler, Frank M. Hair of Aus-
tralian aborigines (Arnhem Land).
Amer. Journ. Phys. Anthrop., new
ser., vol. 14, No. 4, pp. 649-659, De-
cember 1956.

Watkins, C. Malcolm. The American
past in the modern spirit; the Smith-
sonian’s new hall. Antiques, vol. 71,
No. 2, pp. 140-145, February 1957.

——, and Huson, J. Paul. The earliest
known English colonial pottery in
America. Antiques, vol. 71, No. 1,
pp. 51-54, January 1957.

(See under Loeblich,
80 U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1957

Wedel, Waldo R. Changing settlement | Whitern, Wilfred, Schultz, Leonard P.,
patterns in the Great Plains. In Pre- and Ludwig, Fred. Angel Fish.
historic settlement patterns in the| ‘Tropical Fish Hobbyist Publications,
New World. Viking Fund Publica-| 94 pp., 15 figs., 1956.
tions in Anthrop., No. 23, pp. 81-92,

Wenner-Gren Foundation for Anthro-| Wilson, Mildred S. Comments on the

pological Research, Inc., New York,| known fresh-water species of the
1956. Canthocamptidae. Canthocamptus

Wetmore, Alexander. Additional oregonensis n. sp. from Oregon and
forms of birds from Panama and Co- California. Trans. Amer. Micro-
lombia. Proc. Biol. Soc. Washington, scop. Soc., vol. 75, No. 3, pp. 290-307,
vol. 89, pp. 1238-126, 1956. 20 figs., 1956.

——. The Muscovy duck in the Pleisto-
cene of Panama. Wilson Bull., yol.|——: North American harpacticoid
68, p. 327, 1956. copepods: 3, Paracamptus reductus n.
Footprint of a bird from the sp., from Alaska. Journ. Washington
Miocene of Louisiana. Condor, vol. Acad. Sci., vol. 46, No. 11, pp. 348-
58, pp. 389-390. 1956. 351, 16 figs., 1956.

Donors to the National Collections

(Except when otherwise indicated, the specimens were presented by indi-
vidual donors or were transferred by the Bureaus of the Government in accord-

ance with law.)

Abbott, Dr. R. Tucker. (See Acad-
emy of Natural Sciences of Philadel-
phia)

Abbott Fund, W. L., Smithsonian In-
stitution: 1,489 lice from Thailand
(211708).

Abendroth, Mrs. A., Rio de Janeiro,
Brazil: 26 plants from Brazil (211318,
214736).

Abonnec, Emile, Dakar, Africa: 2
mites from Africa (211220).

Abrasive Machine Tool Co., Hast
Providence, R. I.: Abrasive surface
grinding machine, 1916 (214384).

Academy of Natural Sciences
of Philadelphia, Philadelphia, Pa.:
(Through Dr. Henry A. Pilsbry) 20 land
snails from Mexico (206686, ex-
change); (through Dr. R. Tucker Ab-
bott) 281 marine mollusks from Grand
Cayman Islands, B. W. I., including 3
paratypes of new species (211524, ex-
change).

Academy of Sciences of U. S. S. R.,
Moscow, U. S. S. R.: (Through Prof.
Dr. T. Sarycheva) 16 Carboniferous and
Permian brachiopods from deposits of
the Soviet Union (213250, exchange) ;
Committee on Meteorites: (Through
Dr. E. L. Krinov) 2 stony meteorite
specimens of Kunashak and Elenovka,
and 2 iron meteorites of Sikhote-Alin-
skii, U. S. S. R. (211380, exchange) ; Jn-
stitute of Geological Sciences: 4 slides
of Foraminifera from Russia (206830,
exchange) ; Soviet Mineralogical Mu-
seum: (Through Interior, U. S. De-
partment of the) 11 mineral specimens
from various localities in U. S. S. R.
(211019, exchange); V. L. Komarov
Botanical Institute, Leningrad: 196
phanerogams, 4 grasses of the U.S. S.R.
(213760, exchange).

Acunia, Dr. Julian. (See Estacion Ex-
perimental Agronémica)

Adams, David, Neosho, Mo.: 50 pro-
ductoid Mississippian brachiopods from
Missouri (214138, exchange).

Adler, Dr. Hans H. (See Atomic
Energy Commission)

Agencia Filatelica Dominicana.
Dominican Republic)

Agricultural and Mechanical College

(See

of Texas, College Station, Tex.: 21
ferns, 1 cryptogam, from Mexico
(213426); (through Dr. Omer KE.

Sperry) 1 phanerogam (212444).
Agriculture, U. S. Department of,
Washington, D. C.: Agricultural Re-
search Service: 161 phanerogams, U. S.
and Huropean sedges, 2 grasses, culti-
vated bamboos (211590) ; 602 phanero-
gams, 250 grasses from Canada and the
United States, and 18 ferns collected
by Dr. F. J. Hermann (213494, 214033,
214249); 56 plants from the United
States and Canada (213600). JHn-
tomology Research Division: 122 phan-
erogams from Spain, Middle Hast, and
Far East, collected by Mr. G. B. Vogt
(214447) ; (through Dr. Paul W. Oman)
76 land snails from Costa Rica, Ecua-
dor, Georgia, Hawaiian Islands, and
Virginia (210930, 211481, 212513,
212815, 2138428, 213741, 214445); 47
brackish water and land mollusks from
Colombia, Ecuador, Mexico, Philippine
Islands, Dominican Republic, and the
United States (211128, 211828, 212739,
212287, 2138321, 214830); 2 planarians
from Honolulu (2138146); 46,555 mis-
cellaneous insects (214985); (through
G. E. Gates) 97 oligochaetes from Italy
collected 1925-26 (213164); (through
Dr. Robert H. Jones) 35 sand flies, in-
cluding holotype and allotype, and para-

81
82

types of 8 species (213442) ; (through
Dr. Vincent D. Roth) “brown snail”
from Arizona (214182); (through Cal-
vin M. Jones) 12 horseflies from the
United States (214916). Horticultural
Crops Research Branch: 50 phanero-
gams, 60 grasses (214606) ; 47 phanero-
gams, 4 grasses from Costa Rica,
collected by Dr. Bernice G. Schubert
(212176). Forest Service: 2 samples
of laboratory lobby floor made of pap-
reg, plastic-like paper laminate devel-
oped from wood (211905); 3 plants
from Israel (212920) ; sample of Sonde-
regger pine from Louisiana, 16 samples
of woods from Nicaragua (213040) ; 58
authentic specimens of woods collected
in Puerto Rico (213041). Soil Con-
servation Service: 41 phanerogams, 48
grasses (212254). Office of Plant and
Operations: 8 Winchester repeating
carbines, model 1894 (212872).

Aichele, William, Hollister, Calif. :
Envelope with A. P. S. convention sta-
tion hand cancel, 5 A. P. S. 1956 con-
vention programs (212196).

Aitken, Dr. Thomas H. G. (See
Trinidad Regional Virus Laboratory.)

Aker, Samuel; Kass, David E.; and
Kass, George C., Albany, N. Y¥.: 1
package of “Porter’s Curative Sugar
Pills,” ca. 1845, in oval wooden box
(212657).

Alaska, University of, Palmer,
Alaska: 28 phanerogams, 54 grasses of
Alaska (208910).

Alberta, University of, Edmonton, Al-
berta, Canada: (Through Dr. P. S.
Warren) 23 brachiopods of the Devo-
nian, northwestern Canada (213184),
exchange).

Aldrich, T. H., Birmingham, Ala.: 3
gastropods from the Tertiary of Texas,
1 pteropod from the Tertiary of Ala-
bama (213447).

Aldridge, David E., Baltimore, Md.:
Big brown bat from Maryland
(211700).

Aleman G., Dr. Cesar, Caracas, Vene-
zuela: 4 amphibians, 8 reptiles, from
Margarita Island, Venezuela (214178).
(See also Museo de Historia Natural
La Salle)

U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1957

Alexander, Dr. C. P., Amherst, Mass. :
41 flies, including 5 paratypes, world-
wide (214862). (See also Massachu-
setts, University of)

Allan, Greever (See Post Office De-
partment)

Allard, H. A. Arlington, Va.: 79
phanerogams, 3 grasses, 13 ferns, 51
eryptogams from Virginia (214877).

Allard, H. F., Lima, Peru: 2 oil birds
(211535).

Allen, Miss M. Jean, Naples, Italy:
81 polychaetes from Puerto Rico
(208005).

Allum, Dr. Marvin O. (See South
Dakota State College)

Altman, Capt. Robert M. (See De-
fense, U. S. Department of, Department
of the Army)

Altcnaer Museum, Hamburg-Altona,
Germany: (Through Dr. W. Titschack)
5 thrips on slide, from Germany
(214364).

Alva Studios, Inc., New York, N. Y.:
(Through Mrs. Virginia Morris Pollak)
portrait bust of Benjamin Franklin, re-
production of 1860 Lincoln campaign
badge (213906).

Amano, Tetsuo, Naha, Okinawa: 26
phanerogams, 7 grasses, 8 ferns from
Okinawa (211141).

American Hospital Association, Chi-
cago, Ill.: (Through Dr. Verne Kalle-
jian) display case containing 100 differ-
ent kinds of surgical needles (214126).

American Legion, Loyal Service Post
No. 37, Mission, Tex.: (Through O. K.
Rumbel) 10 specimens of rocket mail
material (211740).

American Museum of Natural His-
tory, New York, N. Y.: (Through Dr.
C. H. Curran) 84 wingless flies from
Kerguelen Island (213754); (through
Dr. T. C. Schneirla) 20 ants from
Central and South America (212682) ;
(through Mrs. Patricia Vaurie) 29
American beetles, including 25 para-
types (212868).

American Philosophical Society,
Philadelphia, Pa.: 760 artifacts exca-
vated from the site of Marlborough, Va.
(215041).
DONORS TO THE NATIONAL COLLECTIONS

Amor, Dr. I. Asensio, Madrid, Spain:
(Through Miss Mary Mrose) cardoso-
nite from Puerto de Son, Coriena, Spain
(214913).

Amos, Dr. Arturo J., Buenos Aires,
Argentina: 2 Mississipian brachiopods
from Argentina (213841, exchange).

Anders, Major F. L., Fargo, N. Dak.:
Photograph “Chief-of-Scouts Young in
the Field” and photograph of letter
from Mary C. Lawton to Scouts of 1st
Division, Spanish-American War
(213450).

Anderson, Mrs, David, Hanover, Md. :
Porcelain vase painted by Marshall Fry,
2 porcelain plates painted by Mrs. Ida
Phillips Wheless, 7 pieces “blank” por-
celain for painting (211929).

Andrews, Mrs. Brookings T., Scars-
dale, N. Y.: Matching slipper and clog
of gold brocade, 18th century (214253).

Andrews, Jay D. (See Virginia Fish-
eries Laboratory)

Anisgard, Dr. Harry W., Maracaibo,
Venezuela: 5 types of Foraminifera
of the Eocene of Cuba (211718).

Anonymous: Skull with lower jaw
and nearly complete skeleton of Korean
male adolescent (211596); terracotta
tobacco pipe in form of man’s head
(211605) ; Staffordshire plate, ‘Boston
Mails” series (212647) ; 4 silver spoons
(212649) ; 6 envelopes with American
Philatelic Society Convention cancella-
tion, St. Louis, Mo., 1956 (213549) ;
mummified bat (214996) ; 2 cacheted en-
velopes with special slogan cancel, U. S.
first-day cover and cacheted cover from
first 100 letters to be sorted by Tran-
sorma mail sorting machine at Silver
Spring, Md. (215019).

Antonio, Hilario C. (See Philippines,
Republic of the)

Applegate, Shelton P., Washington,
D. C.: 750 mollusks from the Miocene,
Pliocene, and Pleistocene of Virginia,
North Carolina, and Florida (214454).
(See also Dunkle, Dr. David H.)

Arellano, Dr. Alberto R. V., Mexico,
D. F.: (Through Dr: C. L. Gazin) mol-
lusk from Oaxaca, Mexico (212338).

Arizona, University of, Tucson, Ariz. :
(Through Dr. Floyd G. Werner) 75

83

grasshoppers from North America
(214628).

Arkansas, University of, Fayetteville,

Ark.: (Through Prof. Dwight M.
Moore) 2 ferns from Arkansas
(212179).

Arnaud, Dr. Paul, Washington, D. C.:
20 moths from Japan (212009, 213281).

Aron, William. (See Washington,
University of)

Arpad, Michael, Washington, D. C.:
Pair of Empire-style white kid slippers
without heels, first quarter 19th cen-
tury (212188). (See also Schulman,
Dr. Emanuel.)

ARS Polona.
ment of)

Artia, Ltd.
Government of)

Asato, Yoshio. (See Ryukyu Islands,
Government of the)

Ashby, Wallace L., Jr., Springfield,
Va.: Rostrum, portion of braincase,
periotic and atlas of a skull of fossil
porpoise (212660).

Atefi, Abdolah, Tehran, Iran: Iran-
ian santoor (211602).

Atkinson, Clinton E. (See Interior,
U. S. Department of the)

Atomic Energy Commission, Wash-
ington, D. C.: (Through Dr. Hans H.
Adler) brannerite (absite) from
Crocker’s Well, South Australia, davi-
dite from Tete District, Mozambique,
thorite from Duck Creek, Broadwater
County, Mont., thorite from Lemhi
Pass area, Beaverhead County, Mont.
(211575) ; 3 specimens of tyuyamunite
from Big Horn County, Wyo. (212055).

Atteberry, Eva, Salem, Ill.: Sample
of hand-knitted lace, mid-19th century
(214185).

Atz, James W. (See New York Zoo-
logical Society)

Augustson, G. F., Madera, Calif.: 25
true lice (214626).

Australia, Government of: Botanic
Gardens: 42 phanerogams, 13 grasses,
26 ferns, 8 cryptogams from Australia
(211144, 211909, 214248, exchange) ; 70
ferns, chiefly from Australia and New
Guinea (212696, exchange); 14 ferns
from Australia, New Caledonia, and

(See Poland, Govern-

(See Czechoslovakia,
84

Samoa (213832, exchange). Common-
wealth Scientific and Industrial Re-
search Organization: 243 phanerogams,
8 grasses, 4 ferns, 2 cryptogams, from
New Guinea, mostly collected by R. D.
Hoogland (211322, exchange); 99
phanerogams, 90 grasses from Australia
(214025, exchange); (through Dr. K.
Norrish) kingite, a new hydrous alumi-
num phosphate from Australia
(210433). University of Melbourne:
(Through Dr. G. A. Thomas) 29 Per-
mian brachiopods from western Aus-
tralia (211334, exchange); (through
Dr. N. V. Dobrotworsky) 6 mosquitoes
(larvae) from Australia (214976).

Automatic Electric Company, Chi-
cago, Ill.: Equipment for the telephone
exhibit (215007).

Axelrod, Herbert, Jersey City, N. J.:
95 aquarium fishes (212298).

Backus, Dr. Richard H., Woods Hole,
Mass.: (Through Dr. Giles W. Mead)
2 fishes taken in 40 fathoms of water
south of Cape Cod (212819) ; eel taken
on an Atlantis cruise (213599).

Badger, Mrs. June W., Middleburg,
Va.: 8 earthworms (212537).

Badgley, Dr. Max. (See California,
University of)

Bailey, O. C. (See Kellogg Switch-
board & Supply Co.)

Bailey, Dr. Reeve M. (See Michigan,
University of)

Baker, Dr. Arthur S. (See Interior,
U. S. Department of the)

Baker, Barbara Ann, South Wey-
mouth, Mass.: Child’s dress, Empire
period; 4 men’s collars (211896).

Baker, Prof. Frances E., Poughkeep-
sie, N. Y.: 181 models in pure mathe-
matics, mathematical physics, projec-
tive and differential geometry, and Rie-
mann surfaces, made by donor at
University of Iowa, 1915-1935 (211257).

Baker, James Kenneth (See Texas,
University of)

Baker, Ralph J., Silver Spring, Md.:
Treadle mortising machine (211931).

Baker Brothers, Inc., Toledo, Ohio:
Model of universal saw bench for wood-
working (212901).

U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL. REPORT, 1957

Baldwin, Mr. and Mrs. J. Hicks,
Washington, D. C.: Man’s garments of
late 19th and early 20th centuries
(212882).

Baldwin, Wayne J. (See California,
University of)

Baltars, Eduards, Baltimore, Md.: 42
phanerogams, 4 grasses, from Mary-
land, collected by donor (213835).

Bandy, Mark C., Moab, Utah: Speci-
men of greenockite in uraninite from
Mi Vida mine, Moab, San Juan County,
Utah (213052).

Banks, Frank A. (See Chicago, Uni-
versity of)

Barber, Iola W., Berkeley, Calif.: 45
fresh-water mollusks from Stanislaus
County, Calif. (210943).

Barber-Colman Co.
house Hlectrie Corp.)

Barnes, Col. Theodore, Washington,
D. C.: 2 Teddy bears, early 20th cen-
tury; red paisley shawl; stocking doll
(211897).

Barnett, Major H. C. (See Defense,
Department of, Department of the
Army)

Barr, W. F.
of)

Barretto, Prof. Mauro Pereira, Ri-
beirao Préto, SH&o0 Paulo, Brazil: 3
horseflies, paratypes, from South
America (214625).

Bartley, Floyd, Circleville, Ohio: 77
phanerogams, 4 grasses, 4 ferns from
U. S. (212918).

Bartsch, Dr. Paul, Lebanon, Va.: 1
bobwhite, 1 cardinal (214753).

Bass, Lt. John Roy, Arlington, Va.:
Dugout canoe model acquired by donor
during the post World War II period on
the Island of Ponape, eastern Caroline
Islands (214132).

Bastos Tigre, Dr. Carlos. (See
Ministério da Viacio e Obras Ptiblicas)

Batten, Dr. Roger L., Madison, Wis.:
Brachiopod from Permian of Glass
Mountains of Texas (213842).

Baylis, Joseph Frank, Winchester,
Va.: (Through Dr. and Mrs. W. Blum)
West Virginian-German bonnet box,
18th century (211497).

(See Westing-

(See Idaho, University
DONORS TO THE NATIONAL COLLECTIONS

Baylor University, Waco, ‘Tex.:
(Through Prof. O. C. Charlton) meteor-
ite from Mart, McLennan County, Tex.
(212449).

Beal, Dr. Richard S. Jr., Washing-
ton, D. C.: 2,229 beetles (213280).

Beatty, Mrs. George H., III, State
College, Pa.: 370 dragon flies (212433).

Beck, Mrs. Elizabeth C., Jacksonville,
Fla.: 7 flies from Florida (211537).

Becker, Prof. William B. (See Mas-
sachusetts, University of)

Belcher, Mrs. Miriam F., Garrison-
on-Hudson, N. Y.: 2 pottery spheres
(carpet balls) (213274).

Belkin, J. N. (See California, Uni-
versity of at Los Angeles)

Bell, Wayne, Arlington, Va.: 38 rep-
tiles and amphibians from Virginia,
collected by donor (212029) ; 3 reptiles
from Georgia, collected by donor
(214180).

Bell Telephone Company of Canada,
The, Quebec, Canada: (Through G. L.
Long) telephone equipment for the
telephone exhibit (215009).

Bell Telephone Laboratories, Mur-
ray Hill, N. J.: (Through Henry J.
Kostkos) 66 pieces of telephone equip-
ment for the telephone exhibit (215003).

Bellue, Mrs. Margaret K. (See Cali-
fornia, State of)
Belmont Abbey College, Belmont,

N. C.: (Through Jack Hanahan) 3
hubernites, 1 lazulite, 1 samarskite, 5
kyanites, and 1 autunite, from North
Carolina (214098, exchange).

Belton, William, Santiago, Chile: 11

birds from southeastern Brazil
(211296).

Benesch, Bernard, Burrville, Tenn.:
18 beetles from the Philippines
(209622); 7 beetles from Hurope
(212005).

Bengston, Mrs. George, Waterloo,

Iowa: 26 marine mollusks and 1 bar-
nacle from Puget Sound (210828).
Benham, Mrs. Elisabeth D., Arling-
ton, Va.: Watch with small verge
movement (2143883).
Bennett, Fred D.
ian, Government of)

(See Great Brit-

85

Benson, Robert B. (See Great Brit-
ain, Government of)

Bentley, Mrs. Jetson O., Alexandria,
Va.: Decorated, coiled basketry granary
jar, collected by Brig. Gen. Frederick 8S.
Foltz, U. S. A., from the Apache of
Arizona, 1879-1889 (211310).

Ben-Tuvia, Dr. Adam.
Fisheries Research Station)

Berl, Herbert E. McC., Washington,
D. C.: 2 Austrian stamps (212197).

Bermuda Biological Station, St.
George’s West, Bermuda: (Through Dr.
W. H. Sutcliffe, Jr.) shrimp (210578).

Bermudez, Pedro J., Jusepin, Mona-
gas, Venezuela: Foraminifer from the
Lower Oligocene of western province
of Cuba (212888).

Berner, Leo D. (See Scripps Institu-
tion of Oceanography)

Berry, Paul A., San Salvador, El Sal-
vador: 5 cotton rats from Hl Salvador
(218216).

Berry, Dr. S. Stillman, Redlands,
Calif.: 8 gorgonians from Bahia de
Adair, Sonora, Mexico (211050).

Bettis, Alice Pilling, Washington,
D. C.: Late 19th-century woman’s short
slip, drawers, and hair bracelets
(214857).

Bickmore, Prof. Albert Henry, St.
Petersburg, Fla.: (Through Margaret
B. Martin) white grosgrain-silk wed-
ding cape trimmed with embroidery and
fringe (213448).

Bielawski, Dr. Ryszard.
Academy of Sciences)

Biester, Mrs. Rae V. (See Treasury,
U. S. Department of the)

Biezanko, Prof. C. M., Pelotas, Rio
Grande do Sul, Brazil: 300 Lepidoptera,
499 miscellaneous insects (211371,
211763), 198 Lepidoptera and 32 mis-
cellaneous insects from Brazil
(215080).

Biggs, Dr. H. E. J., Kent, England:
5 erabs and 1 seahorse from HKgypt and
Port Fouad (210702, exchange).

Bishop Museum, Bernice P., Hono-
lulu, T. H.: (Through Dr. C. H. Ed-
mondson) slug from Hawaii (211133) ;
(through Dr. J. Linsley Gressitt) 4

(See Sea

(See Polish
86

cockroaches from Hawaii (214926);
(through Dr. Yoshio Kondo) 9 land
mollusks from the Hawaiian Islands
(218012, exchange).

Blair, Charles S., Birmingham, Ala.:
20 brachiopods of the Silurian from
Alabama (213445).

Blake, Dr. S. F., Arlington, Va.: 6
ferns from District of Columbia
(212912).

Blevins, Miss Blanche Cleo, Wash-
ington, D. C.: Victorian “crazy patch”
quilt (211582).

Bloodgood, Ruth, Washington, D. C.:
U. S. silk flag, 46 stars (1908-1912), red
stripes and blue union stamped on white
silk (215068).

Blum, Dr. and Mrs. W. (See Baylis,
Joseph Frank)

Blume, Prof. Dr. Werner, Goettingen,
Germany: 2 young tauteras from New
Zealand (212024, exchange).

Boegner Foundation, Margaret Grace,
Philadelphia, Pa.: (Through Carl Zig-
rosser) book “The Sayings of Jesus”
produced entirely by serigraphy by
André Girard through sponsorship of
Margaret Grace Boegner Foundation
(213037).

Bohan, John H., Newton Highlands,
Mass.: Pair metal-worker’s shears
(211305).

Bohart, Dr. R. M., Davis, Calif.: 8
mosquitoes from Okinawa (214977).

Boisvenue, Dr. R. J., St. Louis, Mo.:
6 microscope slides of American bot-
flies (214398).

Boker, John R., New York, N. Y. : 1,775
U. S. Tobacco Sales Tax stamps
(213080).

Boland, Mrs. Julia Gibbons, (de-
ceased) : (Through Boland family) red-
velvet piano cover elaborately em-
broidered, ca. 1870 (212878).

Boland family. (See Boland, Mrs.
Julia Gibbons)

Bolyan, Helen, New Orleans, La.: 2
bones from trumpeter swan (212834).

Bonne-Wepster, Dr. J. (See Institute
for Tropical Hygiene and Geographical
Pathology)

Bordes, Dr.
Seine, France:

Francois, Courbevoie,
(Through Dr. Ralph,

U. 8. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1957

Solecki) collection of flint artifacts
manufactured in the paleolithic tradi-
tion by donor, also hammer stick used
in making the objects (213032).

Borro, Primitivo, Havana, Cuba: 2
brachiopods, early Tertiary of Cuba
(214015).

Bos, Mrs. D. S., Barranca bermeja,
Colombia: 22 butterflies, 20 beetles,
from South America (214490) ; 84 but-
terflies and beetles (2149380).

Botanisch Museum en Herbarium,
Utrecht, Netherlands: 105 ferns (214378,
exchange).

Botanische Staatssammlung, Munich,
Germany: 92 phanerogams, 8 grasses
from Venezuela, collected by Pater Vogl
(211679, exchange).

Botanisches Institut der Universi-
taet, Heidelberg, Germany: 22 plants
from South America collected by W.
Rauh and G. Hirsch (212234).

Botanisches Institut der Universitat,
Frankfurt am M., Germany: 54 ferns
from El Salvador (201740).

Bottimer, L. J., Kerrville, Tex.: 7
small moths from Arizona (214619).

Bougere, Miss Lydia, New Orleans,
La.: 5 plants from Louisiana (211317).

Bourquin, Fernando, Buenos Aires,
Argentina: 5 moths, including 2 types
and 3 paratypes (213285).

Bowers, Howard, Grand Junction,
Colo.: (Through Dr. Robert Coleman)
22 ferroselites from Virginia No. 3 Mine,
Montrose County, Colo. (212891).

Box, Harold E., Port of Spain, Trini-
dad: 5 moths from Mexico (214935).

Boyle, Dr. W. Wayne, Honolulu, T. H.:
4 beetles, paratypes, (213064). (See
also Florida, State Plant Board of).

Brabson, Major Kimberly, San Fran-
cisco, Calif.: 4 large game mammals
from India (211169).

Bradford, Faith, Chevy Chase, Md.:
3 children’s dresses, 19th century
(211898) ; 2 administrator certificates,
1899, bearing 10-cent documentary
stamp, series 1898 (212456).

Bradley, Dr. W. H. (See Interior,
U. S. Department of the)
DONORS TO THE NATIONAL COLLECTIONS

Branca, Michael, Washington, D. C.:
Radio receiver (homemade one-tube set
mounted on bread board) (214852).

Branham, Mrs. Hugh, Fort Myers
Beach, Fla.;: Marine mollusk from
Queensland, Australia (210946, ex-
change) ; 2 marine mollusks from Zanzi-
bar (213318, exchange).

Brant, Mrs. Irving, Washington,
D. C.: Iron hook from  ox-yoke
(211597).

Braun, Prof. E. Lucy, Cincinnati,
Ohio: Fern (212915).

Bredin, Mr. and Mrs. Bruce.
Bredin Fund)

Bredin Fund, Smithsonian Institu-
tion: (Through Mr. and Mrs. Bruce
Bredin) 18,611 miscellaneous insects,
spiders, 27,600 marine invertebrates,
8,155 phanerogams, 131 grasses, 399
ferns, 362 cryptogams, 1,653 fishes, and
20 bats from the West Indies (208263).

Breeden, Edward L., J. (See Dun-
ston, Gatewood W., Hstate of)

Breitung, Dr. August J., Pasadena,
Calif.: Fern from Canada (211352).

Brett, Charles J., Jr. (See Nylander
Museum)

Breuer, Joseph.
Commission)

Briggs, Dr. John C.
University of)

Brigham Young University, Provo,
Utah: 3 phanerogams from Utah
(214466).

Brimley, J. F., Wellington, Ontario,
Canada: 4 Canadian scarab beetles
(213441).

British Columbia, University of,
Vancouver: 67 phanerogams, 1 grass,
41 ferns from Canada, various collectors
(211146, exchange).

Britten, H., Old Coulsdon, Surrey,
England: 218 fruit flies, from Great
Britain (2138875, exchange).

Britts, Mrs. L. C., Yerington, Nev.:
2 tadpole shrimps and 1 fairy shrimp
(211105).

Brodie, Mrs. Ralph, and Carpenter,
Mrs. Clifford P., Washington, D. C.:
Miscellaneous collection of costume ac-
cessories, 1 early police whistle
(214396).

(See

(See Game and Fish

(See Florida,

87

Brodkorb, Prof. Pierce (See Florida,
University of)

Brookins, Douglas C., Healdsburg,
Calif.: 4 metastibnites from Geysers,
Sonoma County, Calif. (213054, ex-
change).

Brooklyn Museum, Brooklyn, N. Y.:
(Through Dr. John D. Cooney) 2 Egyp-
tian bull mummies and 1 rope from
Dahshur, Egypt, acquired from Abbott
collection of Brooklyn Museum
(209589).

Brooks, Mrs. R. Z., Washington, D. C.:
2 handmade handkerchiefs, 19th cen-
tury (212369).

Brother Alain
Salle)

Brother Daniel, Medellin, Colombia:
40 phanerogams, 3 ferns, from Colom-
bia (211148).

Brother E. Ignatius, F. S. C., Belts-
ville, Md.: Century camera lens board,
with Wollensak Planatic lens (212859).

Brown, Dr. C. J. D., Bozeman, Mont. :
4,329 fishes, also reptiles, invertebrates,
and insects, from Paraguay, collected
by donor (214279).

Brown, Dr. Clair A., Baton Rouge,
La.: Fern from Canada (213831).

Brown, Dr. D. A., Dunedin, New
Zealand: 2 Triassic and 158 Tertiary
brachiopods from New Zealand
(209461, exchange).

Brown, James W., Brookeville, Md.:
Old thresher, grain cradle, binder’s
rake, and double-harpoon hay fork and
pulley (214890).

Brown, Jerram L., Belmar, N. J.:
Cardinal bird (214752).

Brown, Mrs. John Nicholas, Provi-
dence, R. I.: 12 paintings of military
dress by C. Hoffbauer (213271).

Brown, R. P. (See Minneapolis-
Honeywell Regulator Co.)

Brown, Dr. W. L. (See Harvard
University)

Browne, Arthur E., Alexandria, Va.:
Beaked whale from Kitty Hawk, N. C.
(214224).

Bruns, Franklin R., Jr., Washington,
D. C.: 474 miscellaneous philatelic
specimens (211734, 2138083, 213623,
214900) ; 1,194 Chinese stamps, 285 Ar-

(See Colegio de La
88

menian stamps, 2385 Albanian stamps
(213084) ; 1 Vatican Pius XII lira 1953,
1 mis-struck Jefferson type nickel 1952
(214861).

Bruns, Hattie H., New York, N. Y.: 4
first-day covers, 1 UN embossed enve-
lope (213306, 215065).

Bullard, Richard E.
les, City of)

Bullen, Mrs. Adelaide Kendall,
Gainesville, Fla.: Paneling, woodwork,
and window sash from Thomas Hancock
house, Worcester, Mass., in memory of
donor’s father, Oliver Sawyer Kendall
III (211467).

Bullis, Harvey R., Jr. (See Interior,
U. S. Department of the, Fish and Wild-
life Service)

Biiltemann, H. W., Gottingen, West
Germany: 8 minerals (214795, ex-
change).

Buranek, Alfred M., Salt Lake City,
Utah: Brilliant-cut stone of sphalerite
from Daly Judge Mine, Park City, Utah
(212553, exchange).

Burdick, William N., Los Angeles,
Calif.: 2 butterfly paratypes (214781).

Burke, John J., Vandergrift, Pa.: Ap-
proximately 100 fossil fish of the Upper
Devonian, 1 Mississippian psammodont
tooth, collected by donor (213535, ex-
change).

Burroughs, Paul, Concord, N. H.:
Triplite from Old Colony mine, Marlow,
N. H., leucophosphite from Fletcher
mine, North Groton, N. H. (211569) ;
tourmaline in matrix from Mount Mica,
Paris, Maine (214000, exchange).

Burton, Dr. Paul R., Coral Gables,
Fla.: 1 lot of trematode worms, cotypes
(210462).

Bushee, Mrs. Florence E., Newbury,
Mass.: Paneling from Richard Dole
house (213276).

Butler, Dr. Philip A.
U. S. Department of the)

Byars, Mrs. Florence L., New Provi-
dence, N. J.; 9,520 ants from United
States and Mexico (214624).

Byrd, Prof. Elon E., Athens, Ga.: Hel-
minth holotype from Virginia (213376).

California, State of, Department of
Natural Resources, Sacramento: 20

(See Los Ange-

(See Interior,

U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1957

grasses from California, collected by
L. T. Burcham (211910); 31 grasses
from California (213513) ; Department
of Agriculture: (Through Mrs. Marga-
ret K. Bellue) fern from Los Angeles
County, Calif. (214023).

California, University of, Berkeley
Campus: 783 phanerogams, 57 grasses,
238 ferns, 5 cryptogams (211323); 293
pkhanerogams from Korea and Japan,
collected by Dr. Reid Moran (213830,
gift-exchange); 31 cultivated ferns
(214070) ; (through P. C. Hutchinson)
1 phanerogam (212231) ; 49 ferns culti-
vated in Botanical Garden (214808) ;
(through Prof. Paul D. Hurd) 2 ter-
mites from Lower California (214361).
Davis Campus: 54 grasses from Cali-
fornia, collected by Beecher Crampton
(209320, 2138293). Los Angeles Campus:
57 plants from California (211930,
213608, exchange) ; (Through Mrs. Bar-
bara Joe Hoshizaki) 52 cultivated ferns
(2038777, 212571); (through Dr. Boyd
W. Walker and Victor G. Springer)
490 fishes, including holotypes and para-
types (206958, exchange) ; (through Dr.
Boyd W. Walker, N. Mahadeva, and
Wayne J. Baldwin) 134 fishes from the
eastern Pacific (209845); (through
Wayne J. Baldwin) 38 fishes, holotype
and paratypes of a new Species, from
Hast Pacific (213149); (through Dr.
John N. Belkin) 2 nonbiting mosquitoes
from California (214844, exchange) ; 6
mosquitoes from North America
(214973) ; (through Dr. Deane Fur-
man) 8 slides of mites from North
America (214972). Riverside Campus:
(Through Dr. Max Badgley) 82 mealy-
wings from California (214618).

California Academy of Sciences, San
Francisco, Calif.: 4 grasses from Cali-
fornia collected by John Thomas Howell
(198781); (through Dr. Hugh B.
Leech) 16 psychids from British Co-
lumbia (211545).

Callander, M., Cheshire, England:
Bronze medal struck in 1867 commemo-
rating establishment of telegraphic com-
munications between the Old and New
World (214867).
DONORS TO THE NATIONAL COLLECTIONS

Cameron, Mrs. Stephen F., Dundalk,
Md.: Double-woven Jacquard coverlet,
1838, and overshot coverlet (212398).

Campbell, Mrs. Ann S., Washington,
D. C.: French UNESCO meter mark-
ing, Paris 75, Sept. 25, 1956 (212458) ;
piece of wrapper franked with 5 Rus-
Sian stamps, and Canal Zone airmail
envelope (213461).

Campbell, Dr. Kenneth (See New
England, University of)

Campbell, Lois J., Lexington, Ky. : 200
Mississippian brachiopods from Ken-
tucky (214104, exchange).

Campbell, R. P., Washington, D. C.:
7% British service medals (211558).

Canada, Government of, Ottawa,
Depariment of Agriculture: 301 phan-
erogams, 88 grasses, 20 ferns, of Can-
ada, mostly collected in Labrador by
J. M. Gillett and W. I. Findlay (211148,
exchange) ; 55 phanerogams, 90 grasses
of Alaska and British Columbia (214-
888, exchange); (through Dr. Eugene
G. Monroe) 387 moths from Chile
(214479) ; (through G. E. Shewell) 10
flies from Canada (214484) ; (through
Dr. J. R. Vockeroth) fly paratype from
Canada (214485). National Museum
of Canada: 64 miscellaneous mosses
(214246, exchange); 59 Canadian
mosses (212695, exchange).

Canada, Robert, Washington, D. C.:
Ten-peso note issued 1942-5 by Japanese
government for the Philippines (214-
869).

Canfield Fund, Smithsonian Institu-
tion: Murdochite crystal on quartz
erystal from New Mexico (210318) ;
quartz with inclusions, quartz twin in
matrix, axinite crystal, loose, from
Japan, and cordierite crystal from
Histachi Mine, Japan (211326) ; yellow
sapphire crystal and blue sapphire crys-
tal from Moguk, Burma (211574);
betafite from Ontario, Canada (211-
648) ; 6 specimens of wulfenite from
Glove Mine, Amede, Ariz. (212666) ;
pink crystallized hureaulite from Haute
Vienne, France (212895) ; gold nugget
from Yukon, Alaska (213288) ; 2 speci-
mens of enargite from Quiruvilca, Peru
(213617); monazite from Colorado

89

(214219) ; wulfenite with calcite from

Arizona (214457) ; crystal chrysoberyl
from Brazil (214840).

Cannard, S. G., Edgewater, Md.: Fern

from Pennsylvania (213547) ; (Through

R. A. Elder, Jr.) piece of bar iron de-
rived from ore mined and smelted in
Montour County, Pa. (213627).

Cape Town, University of, Ronde-

bosch, South Africa: (Through Prof. J.

H. Day) 84 marine mollusks, and 3
brachiopods from South Africa (185-

293).

Carbonell, Dr. Carlos S. (See Uni-
versidad de la Republica).

Carborundum Co., Latrobe, Pa.: 6
ceramie cutting tools and gauges
(214267).

Cardenas, Dr. Martin, Cochabamba,
Bolivia: Lichen from Bolivia (212821).

Carias, Cecilia C., Washington, D. C.:
30 used Honduras stamps (212654).

Carmichael, Dr. Leonard, Washing-
ton, D. C.: 31 unused postcards show-
ing buildings of St. Louis (Louisiana
Purchase) Exposition, 1904 (212457) ;
Austrian presentation card bearing “5
Reconstruction of Lutheran School”
semipostals of 1953, with Technical Mu-
seum postmark, Oct. 27, 1956 (212938) ;
part of a wrapper from Philippine Is-
lands franked with 6 different stamps
(213462) ; Inaugural license plate, Wis-
enhower-Nixon, 1957, showing pictures
of President Eisenhower and Vice Presi-
dent Nixon (213708).

Carmona B., Dr. Carlos (See Estaci6n
Experimental “Tulio Ospina’’)

Carnegie Museum, Pittsburgh, Pa.:
(Through Dr. George E. Wallace) 4
spongilla flies from Canada and Penn-
sylvania (214369) ; 35 Neuroptera and
7 mantispids from the United States
(214486, 214989).

Carpenter, Mrs. Clifford P.
Brodie, Mrs. Ralph)

Carriker, M. A., Jr., Popayan, Colom-
bia: 7 land mollusks from Depto. Cauca,
Colombia (212183).

Cartwright, Oscar L., Washington,
D. C.: 11,400 miscellaneous insects from
Texas, Arizona, and New Mexico
(212685).

(See
90

Casanova, Richard L., Statesville,
N. C.: 55 brachiopods of the Pennsyl-
vanian, Permian, and Jurassic from
Serbia (212659, exchange) ; 8 echinoids
of the Cretaceous from Texas (214346).

Case, Frederick W., Jr., Saginaw,
Mich.: Plant from Michigan (213601).

Case, Nancy F., Swarthmore, Pa.: Ap-
proximately 85 miscellaneous marine
invertebrates collected near Ras Tan-
uar, Saudi Arabia on the Persian Gulf
(207674).

Caster, Dr. Kenneth E., Cincinnati,
Ohio: 500 Permian fossils from Tas-
mania (214445).

Castle, Edgar, Middletown, Md. : 1214-
cent script dated August 2, 1841
(214764).

Catholic University of America,
Washington, D. C.: (Through Rev.
James A. Magner) the Monsignor John
M. Cooper collection of African, Ameri-
can Indian, Oceanic, and Philippine eth-
nology; also mollusks, and 52 miscel-
laneous items of military history, crafts,
archeology and paleontology (211312) ;
(through Dr. W. Gardner Lynn) 12
skulls and lower jaws of fossil porpoises
from Calvert County, Md., collected by
A. C. Murray (212661).

Causey, Drs. David and Nelle B.,
Fayetteville, Ark.: 6 hermit crabs and
99 crabs (210451) ; 500 marine inverte-
brates from Vera Cruz and Acapulco,
Mexico (212087) ; copepod from mouth
of needlefish at Acapulco, Mexico
(218592). (See also Rosso, Sam)

Chace, E. P., San Diego, Calif.: Ap-
proximately 42 decapod crustaceans
from Sonora, Mexico, collected by donor
(211423, 213919).

Chaffee, Dr. Robert G.
mouth College Museum)

Chamberlain Fund, Frances Lea,
Smithsonian Institution: 673 land and
fresh-water mollusks from Libya, col-
lected by Dr. Rolf Brandt (209449) ;
cut stone of star beryl from Minas Ge-
rais, Brazil (211572) ; 34-carat square
step-cut red spinel from Moguk, Burma
(211573); star spinel from Ceylon
(211889); andalusite from Brazil
(214016).

(See Dart-

U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1957

Chamberlayne, E. C.
Health Organization)

Chamberlin, H. S.
Department)

Chamberlin, Dr. R. V.
University of)

Chandler, Dr. Leland, Lafayette, Ind. :
Fly, type, from North America
(214925).

Chapin, Dr. E. A.
Museum, Oxford)

Charlton, Prof. O. C.
University)

Chase, Joseph Cummings, Milwaukee,
Wis.: 5 paintings of American and Ko-
rean officers and enlisted men (211728) ;
6 World War I portraits, and a board
containing portraits of 7 members of
the Senior Officers Mess (Bitsburg and
Coblenz, 1919, Army of Occupation)
painted by donor (212053).

Chase, Philip H., Wynnewood, Pa.: 6
Confederate “chemicograph” currency
plates (215062).

Cheng, Dr. Thomas C., Charlottes-
ville, Va.: Types of 2 new species of
trematodes (211382); holotype and
paratype of a new species of trematode,
from Virginia (2138504).

Chicago, University of, Chicago, Ill. :
(Through Frank A. Banks) 4 paratypes
of termites from British Guiana and
Brazil (214978).

Chicago Natural History Museum,
Chicago, Ill.: 15 phanerogams from Ha-
waii collected by O. Degener and asso-
ciates (211150, exchange); 2 grasses
from Montana (212591); grass from
Illinois (212693) ; (Through Dr. Rupert
Wenzel) 49 histerid beetles, including
12 paratypes, 15 batflies, paratypes; 151
batflies representing 17 species, includ-
ing 4 holotypes, 3 allotypes, 14 para-
types, vial of biting lice from wart hog
(185750, gift-exchange) ; (through Dr.
A. L. Rand) 2 birds (211815, exchange).

Chicago Sun-Times Syndicate, Chi-
cago, Ill.: George Lichty “Grin and
Bear It” cartoon (214045).

Chromy, Benjamin J., Saratoga,
Calif.: 2 X-ray tubes (212899).

(See World
(See Post Office

(See Utah,

(See University

(See Baylor
DONORS TO THE NATIONAL COLLECTIONS

Churchill, Mr. and Mrs. John W.,
Takoma Park, Md.: Lower jaw of fossil
from Calvert County, Md. (213443).

Clancey, Don, Kearneysville, W. Va.:
47 Hemiptera and Coleoptera from Bel-
gian Congo, and 5 weevils from Brazil
(214937).

Clark, E. O., Baltimore, Md.: Big
brown bat from Maryland (211964).

Ciark, Gordon, College Park, Md.:
Protozoan type slide from Solomons,
Md. (212028).

Clark, John W., Brooklyn, N. Y.:
First-day cover, “Commodore Barry”
issue (212198).

Clarke, Dr. J. F. Gates, Washington,
D. C.: 4,801 miscellaneous insects,
spiders, and allied animals from Wash-
ington, Oregon, Idaho, Montana, Wyo-
ming, Utah, North Dakota, and Minne-
sota (212689); 50 flies, 86 microlepi-
doptera, 30 millipedes, 1 spider, and 22
centipedes from Maryland (214769,
214778, 214992).

Clattenburg, Albert E., Jr., Washing-
ton, D. C.: 1,262 envelope faces bearing
U. S. postal meter markings (213550).

Cloos, Dr. Ernst. (See Johns Hop-
kins University)

Cloud, Dr. Preston E.
U. S. Department of)

Cobey, Mrs. Harriet, Alexandria, Va.:
Framed hair wreath (211309).

Codazzi, Dr. Pref. Leopoldo, Reggio
Emilia, Italy: 5 Italian birds (200622,
exchange).

Coffman, Virgil H., Hope, Ind.: 100
invertebrate fossiis of the Silurian,

(See Interior,

Waldron shale, Hartsville, Ind.
(218227).

Cohen, Daniel M. (See Stanford
University )

Cohen, Moshe (See Israel, Govern-
ment of)

Colbert, Mrs. Lewis F., Washington,
D. C.: Tailored and decorated buckskin
dress of a Nez Perce Indian woman,
collected by Gen. George M. Sternberg,
about 1877 (211704).

Cole, Dr. A. C., Knoxville, Tenn.: 64
ants, including paratypes and topotypes,
from United States (212680, 214374).
(See also, Tennessee, University of)

437255—57—_—_7

91

Cole, K. J., Springfield, Va.: Speci-
men of laumantite with prehnite on
caleite from Goose Creek Trap Rock
Quarry, Belmont, Va. (213616).

Cole, Dr. W. Storrs, Ithaca, N. Y.:
(Through Ruth Todd) 5 Foraminifera,
topotypes, from Upper Cretaceous of
Cuba (213614, exchange).

Colegio de La Salle, Havana, Cuba:
(Through Brother Alain) 7 plants, 23
phanerogams, 1 fern, from Cuba
(211147, 212917, exchange).

Colegio San Calixtoe, La Paz, Boliv-
ia: 2 adult male skulls, without lower
jaw, 1 calva from Bolivian Altiplano
(218594) .

Coleman, Dr. Richard W., San Fran-
cisco, Calif.: 51 crustaceans (211364) ;
90 fresh-water snails, 19 insects, from
British Columbia (211424).

Coleman, Dr. Robert. (See Bowers,
Howard)

Collart, Dr. A. (See Musée Royal
d’Historie Naturelle).

Collins, Dr. Henry B. (See Jones,
Mrs. Edward Darlington)

Collins, Capt. J. A. Washington,
D. C.: 3 birds (212651).

Collins, Lee F., Port Carbon, Pa: 2
signal flags, flown on USS Mississippi
from 1842 to 1846 (212877).

Cslorado, University of, Boulder,
Colo.: Holotype of new species of liz-
ard and 1 grass from Colorado (212059,
212243); (through Dr. William A.
Weber) 38 lichens from Western United
States (212694, exchange); (through
Dr. T. Paul Maslin) type and paratype
of a new species of hylid frog (214502).

Colorado College, Colorado Springs,
Colo.: 5 specimens of 2 new species of
plants (211907, exchange).

Commerce, U. S. Department of,
Weather Bureau, Washington, D. C.:
(Through J. Glenn Dyer) 7 fairy
shrimps from Prince Patrick Island,
Canada, collected by Wesley R. Morris
(211208).

Common, Ian F. B., Canberra City,
Australia: 2 moths from Australia
(213067).

Condit, John M., Worthington, Ohio:
7 salamanders, 2 frogs, from Ohio, col-
92

U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1957

lected by P. E. Pappas and donor | (200645, exchange); (through Dr. Al-

(214179).

Congdon, Mrs. Carol, Washington,
D. C.: Wedding coat and vest worn by
Houston F. Walker, Nelson, Pa., 1899,
and maroon flannel dress, trimmed with
black taffeta, worn by Mrs. Houston
F. Walker, Elkland, Pa., ca. 1910
(211346). (See also Walker, Mrs. Lou-
ise K.)

Conkin, James E., Cincinnati, Ohio:
26 Mississippian type gastropods and
blastoids from Indiana (211338); 10
type specimens of Foraminifera from
the Cretaceous of Mexico (211728) ; 5
fresh-water mussels from Live Oak
County, Tex. (213272) ; 8 thin sections
of rock containing 1 holotype and 14
paratypes of Foraminifera from the
Cretaceous of Florida, Texas and Mex-
ico (214458).

Consolidated Edison Company of New
York, Inc., New York, N. Y.: (Through
W. M. Leonard) map of underground
mains of Hdison Illuminating Company,
1 junction box, 2 3-wire conduits
(212336).

Constantine, Dr. Denny G. (See
Health, Education, and Welfare, Depart-
ment of)

Cocke, Dr. C. Wythe.
U. S. Department of the)
Cooney, Dr. John D.

Museum)

Cooper, Dr. G. Arthur, Washington,
D. C.: 150 Permian fossils from Texas
collected by donor (214749); Bronze
Medal 1946, Princeton University Bi-
centennial (214762).

Cooper, Dr. G. Arthur and Mrs. Jose-
phine W., Washington, D. C.: 10,000
invertebrate fossils from Southern Pen-
insula of Michigan collected by donors
(21138382).

Copenhagen, University of, Copen-
hagen, Denmark: 250 phanerogams, 10
grasses from Colombia, collected by Dr.
Mogens K¢gie (209818) ; 1,076 phanero-
gams, 81 grasses, 27 ferns, 146 crypto-
gams, from Argentina, Greenland, and
Hurope (211145, exchange); (through
Dr. Torben Wolff) 7 specimens of crabs

(See Interior,

(See Brooklyn

fred Rosenkrantz) 26 gastropods from
the Danian of Denmark (213121, ex-
change).

Cornell University, Ithaca, N. Y.:
(Through Dr. J. G. Franclemont) 4
moths from Honduras (2138057);
(through Dr. H. E. Moore, Jr.) 11 eulti-
vated phanerogams (213606, exchange) ;
(through Dr. H. E. Evans) 14 centi-
pedes from the United States (214775).

Corning, Dr. and Mrs. Hobart M.,
Washington, D. C.: Black lace parasol,
Victorian era (213620).

Cott, Dr. H. Kdwin (See Defense, U.S.
Department of)

Cotton, William F., Washington,
D. ©.: Parade snare drum of Sykes
Regulars, 2nd Division, 5th Corps, Army
of the Potomac, about 1860-1865
(211898).

Couch, Lt. D. N. (deceased) : Meteor-
ite from Coahuila (Sanchez Estate),
Mexico, presented in 1854 (212669).

County Commissicners of Charles
County, La Plata, Md.; 19th-century
ballot box, glass paneled, with wooden
ease (213451).

Crabill, Dr. Ralph E., Jr., Washing-
ton, D. C.: 41 centipedes including types
(214779) ; 6 insects, 9 isopods, 6 milli-
pedes, 16 spiders from Virginia
(214970).

Crane, Mrs. Charles W., Summit,
N. J.: 2 ferns from Dismal Swamp
(211082).

Crawiord, Mrs. Jesse Padon, Chevy
Chase, Md.: Remington-Hlliot 4-barrel
pistol (212875).

Crenshaw, Dr. John W., Jr., Colum-
bia, Mo.: 52 turtles from southern
United States (211498).

Crown Agents, The, Washington,
D. C.: (Through A. J. E. Davis) 24
stamps of the British Colonies (211743) ;
4 Wiji postage values, 1 Jamaica postage
value (212193); 42 British Empire
stamps (213093) ; 11 stamps of British
Colonies (214904).

Cruickshank, Allan, New York, N. Y.:
(Through Dr. A. Wetmore) Swainson’s
warbler (214754).
DONORS TO THE NATIONAL COLLECTIONS

Crumb, S. E., Puyallup, Wash. : 6,546
Lepidoptera larvae from North Amer-
ica (214643).

Cuba California Oil Co., Havana,
Cuba: 10 holostean and teleostean fishes
from upper Jurassic Jagua shales of
Cuba, collected by C. W. Hatton and
Juan Gallardo (2138665).

Culbertson, John B., Greenville, S. C.:
Collection of stone tools, i potsherd
from South Carolina, 1957 (215691).

Culver, William B., Arlington, Va.:
German semiautomatic rifle (213299).

Cummings, Donald, Chicago, Ill.: 2
slabs of rock of Devonian age contain-
ing 1 trilobite and 5 pelecypods from
Seven Stars, Pa. (212168).

Curran, Dr. C. H. (See American
Museum of Natural History)

Currie, Dr. Ethel D., Glasgow, Scot-
land: % Paleozoic gastropods from
Scotland (211878, exchange).

Curry, Robert A., Bethesda, Md.:
Man’s Czechoslovakian hat, bolero
jacket, and shirt (211965).

Curtis, Karl. (See de Arrocha, Sr.
Don Juan)

Cushman, Mrs. Helene G., McLean,
Va.: Searlet tanager (211962).

Custis, E. P., Washington, D. C.: 12
pieces of miscellaneous radio equipment
(213038) ; Morton-Wimshurst-Holtz in-
fluence machine, complete with acces-
sories and other medical material used
by Dr. Marvin A. Custis (214851).

Czechoslovakia, Government of,
Prague: (Through Artia, Ltd.) 60
Czechoslovakian stamps and first-day
covers (212240, 214901).

Dahl, Dr. George, Sincelejo, Bolivar,
Colombia: 190 fresh-water fishes from
South America (207515, exchange).

d’Andretta, Sra. M. V. A., Sa0 Paulo,
Brazil: 10 fiies from 8. Bernardo, Si#o
Paulo (213144, exchange). (See also
Departmento de Zoologia)

Danish Mineralogical Museum, Co-
penhagen, Denmark: (Through Dr. E.
Nielsen) 32 fossil fishes from the Lower
Triassie of Greenland and Madagascar,
including casts of Ichthyostegids from
Upper Devonian of Bast Greenland
(213610, exchange).

93

Darling, Cyrus, Demorest, Ga.:
Phanerogam and 3 ferns from Georgia
and South Carolina (214245).

Darling, Thomas, Jr.. Washington,
D. C.: 15 ferns from Pennsylvania (212-
177) ; fungus (212697) ; fern from Vir-
ginia (212913).

Dartmouth College Museum, Han-
over, N. H.: (Through Dr. Robert G.
Chaffee) 6 ostracoderms from the Pat-
ten collection (210820, exchange).

Davies, Dr. Lewis, Durham, Hngland:
10 biack flies from Europe; including
paratypes (215052).

Davis, A. J. EH. (See Crown Agents,
The)

Davis, Bernard, Philadelphia, Pa.:
Cacheted envelope cf the Finland Cen-
tenary Stamp Exhibition (2117387).

Davis, Dr. Charles C. (See Western
Reserve University)

Davis, J. M., Silver Spring, Md.:
3,753 spiders, 50 ege sacs (2146382).

Day, Prof. J. H. (See Cape Town,
University of)

Daybreak Mining Co., Opportunity,
Wash.: (Through Karl C. Fair) autun-
ite from Daybreak Mine, Spokane,
Wash., and thorite from Hall Moun-
tain, Port Hill, Idaho (211714).

de Arrecha, Sr. Don Juan, Penonomé,
Republic of Panama: (Through Karl
Curtis) ceremonial “Diablitos” dance
mask and suit of bark cloth, from the
Guaymi Indians, Penonomé, Province
of Coelé, Republie of Panama (210682).

de Barrera, Dr. Isabel B., Balderas,
Mexico: 6 moths, including 2 types and
4 paratypes (2138828).

Debourle, A., Pau (Basses-Pyrénées),
France: 5 topotypes of a formaminifer
from the Hocene of France (211722).

Defense, U. S. Department of:
Armed Forces Epidemiological Board:
(Through University of Pittsburgh)
656 mammals, 6 reptiles, amphibians,
and insects, from Luzon, P. I., collected
by Dr. David H. Johnson (213273).
Department of the Army: Arctic Aero-
medical Laboratory: 63 flies from
Alaska (214873). Dugway Proving
Ground: (Through Dr. H. Edwin Cott)
67 bird lice (214621) ; Office of the Chief
94

of Ordnance: 10 pistols, 1 revolver, 5
submachine guns (213453); 98 speci-
mens of foreign military equipment,
including firearms and optical instru-
ments (213624); 1 Thompson subma-
chine gun (213625) ; 2 submachine guns
(213711) ; Japanese machine gun and
Japanese Hotchkiss heavy machine gun
(214046) ; 1 automatic rifle (213712) ;
230 specimens of ordnance material
(214893). Preventive Medicine and
Malaria Control Section: (Through
Capt. Robert M. Altman) 2,067 lice from
Panama (214475). 25th Preventive
Medicine Survey Detachment (Through
Capt. Gordon Field and C. M. Keenan)
136 mammals from Panama and the
Canal Zone (211042). 7451st Preven-
tive Medicine Survey Detachment: 106
mammals from Panama and the Canal
Zone, 1 bird from Panama (2134382).
Walter Reed Army Medical Center:
255 vials of flies, worldwide (214984) ;
(through Dr. Geoffrey Edsall) 168,531
specimens of ectoparasite material
(212007); through Major H. C.
Barnett) 161 Malayan mosquitoes
(214981); (through Douglas Gould)
75 mosquito larvae on slides from
Malaya (214986). Department of
the Navy: Hydrographic Office: 4
models of Navy 2102-D. modifica-
tion of Rude Star Finder (214422);
(through Dr. John Lyman) approxi-
mately 12,509 specimens of plankton col-
lected by the SS Frederick Lykes, 1956
(210804). National Naval Medical Cen-
ter: (Through W. B. Huli) 285 mosqui-
toes from Guam and Truk, 217 slides of
mosquito larvae from Guam (212678).
Naval Medical Research Units: 494
miscellaneous insects, 8 leeches, 45
shrimps, 12 hermit crabs, 5 crabs, and
reptiles from Cairo, Egypt (207008) ;
(through Dr. Harry Hoogstraal) : tick
from Hgypt, holotype (214767);
(through Dr. Conrad HK. Yunker) 15
hermit crabs from Hast Africa col-
lected by Dr. Yunker (212089); Naval
Observatory: Astronomical transit,
Repsold, ca. 1850 (211299); Ojfice of
Naval Research: 3 mammals, fishes,
mollusks, 11 birds, and marine inverte-

U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1957

brates collected in Antarctic by ‘‘Opera-
tion Deep-freeze I’ in 1955 and 1956
(205726); electric time indicator
(212902) ; (through University of Kan-
sas) type specimen of an Alaskan lem-
ming (210565) ; (through Comdr. Tren-
ton K. Ruebush) 10 mollusks from Fort
Amador, Canal Zone (211063) ;
(through Dr. G. Dallas Hanna) 42 land
and fresh-water mollusks from Alaska
(211488) ; U. S. Naval Medicat Schooi:
(Through Dr. Robert E. Kuntz) 63
slides and 17 vials of Mallophaga, 2
slides and 2 vials of Anoplura from
EHeypt (212018); 12 land snails from
Port Lyautey, Morocco (212286); 73
branchiopods, 143 ostracods, from
Hgypt (213996).

de Fontaine, W. H. (See Yachting)

De Forest, Edgar A. (deceased) :
Gyroscope (211363, deposit).

Degener, Dr. Otto, Waialua, Oahu,
T. H.: 49 phanerogams, 2 grasses, 1
eryptogam from Hawaii (213755).

de Jesus, Dr. P. L., Manila, P. I.: 4
Philippine medals and decorations
(213621); 3 small-change bills issued
by Central Bank of the Philippines
(2148638).

de Klasz, Dr. Ivan, Port-Gentil (Ga-
pon), French Hquatorial Africa: Ap-
proximately 200 Foraminifera from the
Cretaceous of Gabon (211720).

Dekle, G. W. (See Florida,
Plant Board of)

de la Torre, Dr. Salvador, Santiago
de Cuba, Cuba: 363 land and fresh-
water mollusks, including 3 paratypes,
from Cuba (212015). (See also Mor-
rison, Dr. J. P. E.)

Delta State Teachers College, Cleve-
land, Miss.: 5 grasses from Mississippi
(211097).

Demaree, Dr. Delzie, Chinle, Ariz.:
22 grasses, 4 ferns, from New Mexico
and Arizona (209750, 214030).

de Mesa, Pedro, Quezon City, P. I.:
588 marine, land, and freshwater mol-
lusks from Philippines and Japan (212-
342).

de Oliveira, Dr. Paulo Erichsen, Rio
de Janeiro, Brazil: 2 rare marine mol-
lusks from Brazil (212187, exchange).

State
DONORS TO THE NATIONAL COLLECTIONS

Departamento de Zoologia, Sio Paulo,
Brazil: (Through Sra. M. V. A. d’An-
dretta) 12 flies from Brazil (211638,
exchange).

De Pauw University, Greencastle,
Ind.: 2 plants (212371) ; (through Prof.
Winona H. Welch) 21 bryophytes (215-
061, exchange).

Deputy, Annie Elizabeth (deceased) :
(Through Miss Florence Deputy) fire
fan, 19th century (211599).

Deputy, Florence (See Deputy, Annie
Elizabeth)

De Santis, Dr. L., La Plata, Argen-
tina: 125 specimens of parasitic Hy-
menoptera including cotype and para-
types (214969).

de Steiguer, Mrs. Louis, Washington,
D. C.: Aeolian piano-organ made by
Timothy Gilbert & Co. about 1865 (212-
305).

de Sylva, Don.
sity of)

Devan, Mrs. Samuel Arthur, Wash-
ington, D. C., and Richards, Elizabeth
E., Germantown, Pa.: Victorian slumber
throw, 1888 (211904).

deWitt, Mr. and Mrs. W., Hrie, Pa.:
§ marine mollusks (204048).

Diakonoff, Dr. A. (See Rijksmuseum
van Natuurlijke Histoire)

Diaz Ungria, Dr. Carles. (See Soci-
edad de Ciencias Naturales La Salle)

Dickie, Mrs. Eva M., Washington,
D. C.: 2 picture albums of world cruise
on Hmpress of Australia (214265).

DiConsiglio, Miss Tosca, Long Island,
N. Y.: Leaflet, urging people to buy
bonds, dropped from a Caproni bombing
airplane (211560).

DiMaglio, Joseph, Washington, D. C.:
Bronze pestle found on Island of Is-
chia, Italy (215078).

Dimitrieff, Capt. Nicholai, New York,
N. Y.: Map of Europe and Near East
cn which donor traced major troop
movements of World War II (214890).

Dingwell, Paul D., Longmeadow,
Mass.: (Through Mrs. William H.
Wheeler, Jr.) various uniform items
worn by donor while serving as lieu-
tenant in U. S. Navy, 1930 (214261).

(See Miami, Univer-

95

Dix, George P., Jr., Baltimore, Md.:
12 uraninites and asseciated minerals
from various mines in Utah, Colorado,
and Arizona (218055).

Doan, Dr. David B., San Francisco,
Calif.: 14 reptiles and amphibians, 5
leeches, mollusks, and insects, from
Miyako and Kurema Islands, Ryukyu
Islands (212572).

Dobrotworsky, N. V., Carlton, Mel-
bourne, Australia: 20 mosquitoes from
Australia (211540). (See also Mel-
bourne, The University of)

Dole, Dr. Hollis M., Portland, Oreg. :
Type specimen of unusually large
Hocene gastropod from western Oregon
(210435).

Dominican Republic: (Through Agen-
cia Filatelica Dominicana) 18 Domini-
can Repubiic first-day covers and
stamps (214907).

Doncaster, J. P. (See Great Britain,
Government of)

Donor unknown: Small square trunk
manufactured by John Cattnach Trunk
Manufacturers, New York City, and a
trunk made by J. Dean, Detroit, bear-
ing inked date and name “Rey. Avza
Brown, 1824,” packed with textiles and
quilts. (214849) ; Mexican 10-peso
piece (214864).

Denovan, J. W., West Palm Beach,
Mla.: 2 starfishes, dredged off Palm
Beach, Fla. (212755).

Doosing, Tillie, Shawsville, Va.: 1
man’s collar, ca. 1840 (214856)

Douglas, Justice William O., Wash-
ington, D. C.: 203 phanerogams, 6
grasses, 1 fern, from Iran (213098).

Dow, Mrs. Laura H., and Dow, Mary,
Washington, D. C.: Royal Crown Derby
cup, saucer, and tea plate, in memory
of Mary Ann Gwynn Davidson, mother
of Mrs. Dow (211601).

Dow, Mary (See Dow, Mrs. Laura H.)

Downey, Maureen, Beaufort, N. C.:
6 sea urchins collected from Bogue
Bank, N. C. (201828).

Drake, Dr. Carl J., Washington, D. C.:
Glass slipper, glass wine goblet (214-
230) ; 16 true bugs from South America
(214622); 1 pair spectacles and case
96

(214748).
liam W.)
Drake, Robert J., El Cajon, Calif.:
55 land and fresh-water mollusks from
Baja California, Mexico (205148).

Dreisbach, R. R., Midland, Mich.:
(Through Prof. H. J. Reinhara) 5 speci-
mens of flies from Mexico (215048).

Drummond, Dr. William C., Los An-
geles, Calif.: Cultivated plant from
California (211315).

Duke University, Durham, N. C.:
(Through Prof. I. EK. Gray) 166 dragon
flies (2138066).

Dumville, Mrs. B. B., Arlington, Va.:
Dresses, suits, and miscellaneous cos-
tume items of late 19th and early 20th
centuries (212884).

Dunkle, Dr. David H., and Applegate,
Shelton, P., Washington, D. C.: 63 fossil
fish of the Upper Triassic, from Vir-
ginia, collected by doners, 1957 (214-
018).

Dunston, Gatewood W., Ustate of,
Norfolk, Va.: (Through Edward L.
Breeden, Jr., Executor) collection of
early motion picture machines, projec-
tors, and miscellaneous items (212314,
bequest).

Dyer, J. Glenn.
U. S. Department of)

Eads, Dr. Richard B., Austin, Tex.: 1
scorpion, 1 spider, from Texas (212675).
(See also Texas, State of)

Eady, R. D. (See Great Britain, Gov-
ernment of)

Hardeley, James W., 1/Sgt., USA
(Ret), Washington, D. C.: 2 Soldiers’
Home service buttons (215017).

Ebling, Mr. & Mrs. J. Orvilie, Lima,
Ohio: Irish castle spinning wheel
(212397).

Eckhart, Emma E., Arlington, Va.:
(Through Darcy George) set of dress-
maker’s brass tools for patterns
(214759).

Edison Industries, Thomas A., Voice-
writer Div., Washington, D. C.: Phono-
graph record that preserves thought and
feeling of historic personages (215002).

Edmondson, Dr. C. H. (See Bishop
Museum, Bernice P.)

(See also Gibson, Dr. Wil-

(See Commerce,

U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1957

Edsall, Dr. Geofirey.
U. S. Department of)

Edwards, Dr. S. W., San Marcos,
Tex.: 9 type specimens of North Ameri-
can Trichoptera (2119383).

Ehlers, Dr. G. M., Ann Arbor, Mich.:
5 plaster casts of brachiopods from
New York, replicas of specimens illus-
trated by the Frenchman, Castelnau,
one of the early explorers in the U. S.
(201576).

Ehrmann, Martin L., Los Angeles,
Calif.: Tourmaline crystal from An-
tandrokomby, Madagascar (211076, ex-
change) ; yellow diamond from Africa,
yellow sapphire from Burma (212829,
exchange); cut stone of beryl from
Brazil (214516, exchange).

Hiselt, Dr. J. (See Naturhistorisches
Museum)

Kisenhower, President Dwight D.,
Washington, D. C.: Ibis statuette, wood
and bronze, from necropolis at Tuna-el-
Gebel (ancient Hermopolis Magna)
Upper Hgypt (299497) ; uniform, Gen-
eral of the Army, World War II
(213556).

Elder, R. A., Ir.
George)

Elias, Dr. M. K., Lincoln, Nebr.: 3
large brachiopods (211331).

Emerson, Lt. Col. K. C., Fort Leaven-
worth, Kans.: 174 lice from Texas,
Germany, Angola, Africa, and Asia
(214360) ; 21 ticks from United States
(214372) ; 107 lice from North America
(214478) ; 103 specimens of bird lice
Mallophaga including types, from North
America, Himalaya and Thailand
(215046).

Enders, Dr. Rebert K., Swarthmore,
Pa.: 1 bird, 1 frog, 428 mammals from
Alaska, Colorado, Massachusetts, Pan-
ama, Saudi Arabia, and Wyoming
(212860) ; 147 mammals and 1 sala-
mander from Panama (214838).

Endo, Dr. Riuji. (See Saitama Uni-
versity )

Engelhardt, Prof. Dr. W. V., Han-
over, Germany: 2 specimens of heidor-
nite from Hanover (214849).

Englehart, Ross Lee, Brentwood,
Md.: Sphalerite on prehnite from Ar-

(See Defense,

(See Cannard, §.
DONORS TO THE NATIONAL COLLECTIONS

lington Quarry,
(211567).

Englewood Stamp Club, Englewood,
N. J. (Through David B. Popkin) ¢a-
cheted envelope for 25th anniversary of
opening of George Washington Bridge
(218089).

Escuela Agricola Panamericana,
Tegucigalpa, Honduras: (Through Dr.
Louis O. Williams) 196 type specimens
of phanerogams (213099).

Esso Standard Oil Co., New York,
N. Y.: (Through Robert H. Scholl)
pirogue (212442).

Estacio Agronémica Nacional, Saca-
vém, Portugal: 164 phanerogams, 30
grasses, 6 ferns, from Portugal (211588,
exchange).

Estacién Experimental Agricola de
La Molina, Departamento de Entomo-
logia, Lima, Peru: (Through Dr. J. B.
Simon) 81 moth larvae (213283).

Estacion Experimental Agronomica,
Santiago de las Vegas, Cuba: (Through
Dr. Julian Acufia) 98 phanerogams, 6
grasses, 43 ferns from Cuba (212181,
212914, gift-exchange).

Estacion Experimental “Tulio Os-
pina,” Medellin, Colombia: (Through
Dr. Carlos Carmona B.) 30 land mol-
lusks from Colombia (209666).

Evans, Dr. and Mrs. Clifford, Wash-
ington, D. C.: 251 insects from South
America, collected by the donors
(215098).

Evans, Dr. H. E. (See Cornell Uni-
versity )

Everhart Museum, Scranton, Pa.:
(Through Dr. R. L. Shalkop) 2 spur-
winged plovers (212265, exchange).

Evitt, Dr. William R., Tulsa, Okla.:
95 silicified trilobites, Ordovician, Lin-
colnshire limestone, Strasburg, Va.
(212885).

Faber and Faber, Owego, N. Y.: Pair
high-topped black satin bathing shoes,
ca. 1910 (212880).

Fabian, Dominick, Portland, Oreg.:
3 UN first-day covers (213305, 214902).

Fair, Karl C. (See Daybreak Mining
Co.)

Goose Creek, Va.

97

Farfante, Dr. Isabel P., Washington,
D. C.: 2 marine mollusks from Cuba
(212653).

Faries, Belmont, Annandale, Va.:
Virst-day cover, 3-cent children’s stamp
(213455).

Farin, S. E., Springfield, Ill.: 5 pseu-
domorphs, limonite after some unknown
mineral from Sparta, Monroe County,
Wis. (211827).

Farragut, David G., Falls Church,
Va.: Man’s wool suit, worn by Ephraim
Ward, Crockett, Va., ca. 1860 (212881).

Father Hubert, La Trappe, Quebec:
200 porcupine lice, 300 cattle lice
(213060) ; 16 lice from North America
(214921).

Faure, Dr. J. C., Pretoria, Union of
South Africa: 9 thrips from South
Africa (214623, exchange).

Ferdinand, J. V. (See Pennsylvania
Power and Light Co.)

Ferriere, Dr. Charles, Geneva, Swit-
zerland : 7 ants, cotypes (2138139). (See
also Museum d’ Histoire Naturelle)

Fessenden, Dr. G. R., Baltimore, Md.:
21 phanerogams from Maryland col-
lected by Dr. Fessenden (2138761).

Field, Capt. Gordon (See Defense,
Department of, Department of the
Army)

Figueira, Armado J. G., Madeira: 2
shrimps (214183).

Filardo, Silvio, Washington, D. C.:
Densmore typewriter (214853).

Filer, Russ, Redlands, Calif. : Chrome

diopside from Outokumper, Finland
(214796, exchange).
Finlay, John, Varadero, Cuba:

(Through Dr. Waldo L. Schmitt) 23
marine mollusks, including 2 paratypes
and 2 topotypes, from Cuba (213839,
exchange).

Fischer, Dr. Max.
risches Museum)

Fisher, Dr. Walter K. (deceased) :
24 echinoderms, including types, para-
types, and topotypes of 8 species
(110560).

FitzGerald, Warren, Silver Spring,
Md.: 16 spiders from Silver Spring
(211707).

(See Naturhisto-
98

Flath, Edward J., Waukegan, I11.:
Cacheted envelope, Lake County Phila-
telic Society (214579).

Fletcher, D. S. (See Great Britain,
Government of)

Florida, State Plant Board of, Gaines-
ville, Fla.: (Through G. W. Dekle)
4 land mollusks from Miami (212533) ;
(through Dr. W. Wayne Boyle) 3 bee-

U.

tles, 1 holotype and 2 paratypes
(213063) ; (through Howard  V.
Weems, Jr.) 8 insects (218852, ex-
change).

Florida, University of, Gainesville,
Fla.: (Through Dr. E. Ruffin Jones) 2
slides of worms (211045); (through
Prof. Pierce Brodkorb) 2 green-winged
birds (214546, exchange) ; through Dr.
John C. Briggs) 1 fish, paratype, from
Florida (2138598).

Florida Game and Fresh Water.

Fish Commission, Tallahassee, Fla.:
(Through Dr. William M. McLane) 300
ostracods and 340 polychaetes, mollusks
and fossil vertebrates collected in Salt
Lake, St. Johns River drainage
(211051).

Fiorida State Board of Health, Vero
Beach, Fla.: (Through Dr. Robert W.
Harrington, Jr.) 2 fishes (214993).

Florida State University, Tallahas-
see, Fla.: Fern from MPlorida (218548).

Fiounders, B.. Whyalla, South Aus-
tralia: 93 specimens of Archaeocyathi-
nae of the Lower Cambrian from Bel-
tana, Australia (218889).

Flower, Dr. Rousseau H., Socorro,
N. Mex.: 50 brachiopods of the Devo-
nian Manitoban limestone from Mani-
toba, Canada (213896).

Folk, Dr. G. Edgar, Jr., Iowa City,
Towa: 25 little brown bats from Iowa
(212227).

Ford, Clayton, Lockport, N. H.: 3
dickinsonites from Nancey No. 1 mine,
North Groton, N. H. (213986, exchange).

Forest Research Institute, Keopong,
Selangor, Malaya: 66 phanerogains
from Malaya (211994, exchange).

Fort Hays Kansas State College,
Hays, Kansas: 2 meteorites (214793,
exchange).

S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1957

Fosberg, Dr. F. R., Falls Church, Va.:
71 phanerogams, 10 grasses, 8 ferns
from the Marshall Islands (214028).

Foss, Ervina Elizabeth, Springfield,
Mass.: (Through Lucile Grebenc)
White organdy wedding dress, kid slip-
pers, and embroidered cotton stockings,
worn by donor’s mother, 1897 (213559).

Foster, Dr. M. T., Fayetteville, N. C.:
Scarlet snake from North Carolina
(211104).

Fouts, Robert M., Laredo, Tex.: 2
wasps, holotype and allotype (214630).

Fox, Dr. Irving, San Juan, P. R.:
Japygid (211934).

Frailey, Mrs. William A., Emmits-
burg, Md.: Auto top surrey, 1900-10,
horse-drawn trap, 1870-90, basket
phaeton with parasol (212050).

Franclemont, Dr. John G., Ithaca,
N. Y.: Moth (211877). (See also Cor-
nell University)

Franco, Dr. Asela B., Cebu City, Ce-
bu, P. I.: 53 marine moliusks from the
Philippines and Colombia (205579, ex-
change).

Frank, Mr. Glynn H., Hyattsville,
Md.: Rare scarlet snake from Scien-
tists Cliffs, Chesapeake Beach, Md.,
collected by the donor in July 1956
(214500).

Fraser, Dr. Francis C. London,
England: Coin balance for sovereign
and half-sovereign coins, ca. 1830
(211895).

Freeman, Paul (See Great Britain,
Government of)

Frieders, Father Fabian, Saint Mein-
rad, Ind.: Salamander from Indiana
(213247).

Frimerkjasalem (See Iceland, Gov-
ernment of)

Fritz, Kemp, Washington, D. C.: Ger-
man steelyard, ca. 1750 (2113804).

Frondel, Prof. Clifford. (See Har-
vard University)

Frye, Dr. T. C.
University of)

Fukui University, Fukui, Japan:
(Through Dr. T. Tsuneki) 58 wasps,
including 27 paratypes, from Japan
(214879, exchange).

(See Washington,
DONORS TO THE NATIONAL COLLECTIONS

Fulton, Dr. B. B., Raleigh, N. C.: 8
erickets including types from North
America (214922).

Furman, Dr. Deane (See California,
University of)

Galindo, Dr. Pedro (See Gorgas Me-
morial Laboratory)

Game and Fish Commission, Corpus
Christi, Tex.: (Through Ernest G.
Simmons) 51 amphipods, 31 parasitic
copepods, 81 shrimps (210256).

Game and Fish Commission, Harlin-
gen, Tex.: (Through Joseph P. Breuer)
approximately 188 miscellaneous ma-
rine invertebrates (208823); 6 poly-
chaetes, 4 sipunculids, 2 lots hydroids,
7 barnacles, 3 bryozoans (210978) .

Gamerdinger, Henry. (See Monaco,
Principality of)

Garber, Paul E., Washington, D. C.:
Victor Victrola, Granada X, phonograph
(212335).

Garfield, Abram, Cleveland, Ohio:
White French porcelain plate with apri-
cot band trimmed with gold, having in-
itial “G” in gold and red, part of family
china owned and used by President and
Mrs. Garfield (211565).

Gates, G. E. (See Agriculture, U. S.
Department of)

Gates, Lloyd S.
Co.)

Gazin, Dr. C. L.
Alberto R. V.)

Geary, E. G., San Francisco, Calif.:
(Through Lt. Col. H. M. Geary) Con-
federate flag (214389).

Geary, Lt. Col. E. M.
' E.G.)

Geduly, Eva, Cincinnati, Ohio: 8
snake skulls from the collection of
donor’s father, Professor Oliver Geduly
(211495).

Gee, James Walter, Washington,
D. C.: Fish from Maryland collected
by donor (214552).

General Electric Co. Milwaukee,
Wis. : Wilhelm Konrad Roentgen’s third
X-ray tube, with mahogany case
(204068).

General Electric Research Labora-
tory, Schenectady, IN. Y.: 2 World War I
audio amplifiers (214291).

(See Wilder, R. S.,

(See Arellano, Dr.

(See Geary,

99

General Services Administration,
Washington, D. C.: Galesi automatic
pistol Model 9, red leather open holster
(211561) ; 18 pieces of jewelry set with
diamonds, rubies, sapphires, and jade
(212225) ; 27 jade cabochons and 46
jade fancy cuts (Burma _ jadeite)
(218053) ; 35 lots of cut diamonds
(214236) ; 4 packets of loose cut dia-
monds (214602).

GeoloSko-paleontolo&ski inStitut, Uni-
verza, Ljubljana, Yugoslavia: (Through
Dr. Anton RamoysS) 23 early Permian
fossils from Yugoslavia (211335, ex-
change).

George, Darcy.
E.)

Georgia, University of, Athens, Ga.:
4 grasses from Georgia (211096).

Gerhard, John I., Philadelphia, Pa.:
Cut-glass cologne bottle, perfume bottle
(214895).

Germany, Republic of, Der Bundes-
minister fiir das Post und Fernmelde-
wesen, Bonn: 20 German stamps
(212238, 215069).

Gettens, R. J.
stitution)

Giard, Louis O., Chicopee Falls, Mass. :
Bronze medal struck 1876 commemorat-
ing 100th anniversary of American In-
dependence (214763).

Gibbons, Mrs. Minnie, McLean, Va.:
Kentucky warbler skeleton (214964).

Gibbs, R. T. (See Harvard Univer-
sity )

Gibson, Dr. Colvin L., Memphis,
Tenn.: 4,327 butterflies, moths, and in-
sects from United States, Mexico, the
British Solomon Islands, and the tropics
(215055).

Gibson, Dr. William W., Mexico City,
Mexico: (Through Dr. Carl J. Drake)
10 insects from United States and Mex-
ico (214021).

Gideon, Mrs. Gail, Seattle, Wash.: 4
items of Naval uniform, World War II,
worn by donor’s son, 1948-46 (214260).

Gill, Clyde (See Peerless Handcuff
Co.)

Gill, Dr. Edmund D.
Museum of Victoria)

(See Eckhart, Emma

(See Smithsonian In-

(See National
100

Gillis, Cora E. (See Grand Army of
the Republic; Parks, Mrs. Claudine;
Sharp, Frances, and Wilson, Eunice C.)

Gillis, Lt. J. M. (deceased) : meteor-
ite from Imilac, Atacama, Chile, pre-
sented in 1853 (212668).

Gillis, Paul O., Yuba City, Calif.: 20
stereoscopic views of Washington, D. C.
(212596).

Ginsburg, Isaac
don)

Gisholt Machine Co., Madison, Wis.:
Gisholt turret lathe, ca. 1890 (214381).

Glass, Sol, Baltimore, Md.: 53 deluxe
stamp proofs, 75 artist’s autographed
stamp proofs of France and colonies
(2138088).

Glenn, Murray O., Henry, Ill.: 29
moths from Illinois (210955).

Glenny, Dr. Fred H., Youngstown,
Ohio: Parts of a Kiwi in alcohol
(214962).

Gless, Karl D., Gamboa, Canal Zone:
Panama Railroad rail section (211901).

Goddard, Eunice R., New Salem,
Mass. : Remnants of materials sent from
New York to Mary Todd Lincoln when
Abraham Lincoln was elected Presi-
dent (214855).

Goin, Dr. Coleman J., Gainesville,
Fla.: Frog, paratype of new species,
from Leticia, Colombia, collected by
E. Ross Allen (213187).

Gordon, Dr. Isabella (See Tattersall,
Dr. Olive S.)

Gorgas Memorial Laboratory, Pan-
ama, Republic of Panama: (Through
Dr. Pedro Galindo) 10 mosquitoes from
Panama (214929).
ha ees Hatfield (See Parnau, John

(See Gunter, Gor-

Gould, Douglas (See Defense, U. S.
Department of, Department of the

Army )

Goyne, R. R. (See Miners Foundry
and Manufacturing Co.)

Graf, A. B., Rutherford, N.
cultivated ferns (212066).
Roehrs Co., Julius)

Graf, John E. (See Tibado, Clarence
J)

Grand Army of the Republic, Lake-
wood, N. Y.: (Through Cora PH. Gillis)

Moa 2

(See also

U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1957

eollection of miscellaneous military
items associated with the G. A. R., in-
cluding badges, medals, flags, gavel, and
hats (182102).

Grant, Maj. Chapman, Escondido,
Calif.: 4 lizards from Cuba collected
by donor (211509); (through Dr. W.
Gardner Lynn) collection of Cuban
amphibians (213859).

Gray, Prof. I. E. (See Duke Univer-
sity)

Great Britain, Government of:
British Museum (Natural History)
London, England: 141 phanerogams
from Venezuela, 8 phanerogams, 12
grasses from Antarctic Islands (211869,
exchange) ; 77 phanerogams, 24 grasses,
1 fern (214578, exchange); (through
Mr. G. J. Kerrich) 6 flies (paratypes)
and 2 parasitic flies from Hurope and
South Africa (212481) ; (through R. D.
BHady) 4 flies, paratypes, from Fiji
(212673) ; (through F. G. A. M. Smit)
16 fleas from Africa, Kerguelen Island,
and North America (2138061); 4 rare
fleas from Africa (213284); (through
Dr. John Edwards Hill) 15 bats and
rodents from Africa and South America
(213412, exchange) ; (through Robert
B. Benson) 150 sawflies, including
paratypes of 25 species (212141) ;
149 Palearctic sawflies representing
92 species, including 25 paratypes
(212862) ; (through D. 8S. Fletcher) 14
moths from South America (214496,
exchange); (through Paul Freeman)
23 flies from England (214777,
exchange) ; 34 flies and midges, includ-
ing paratypes (214974, exchange) ;
74 craneflies from United Kingdom
(214979) ; (through J. P. Doncaster)
148 slides of aphids from Europe and
Africa (214843); (through P. F. Mat-
tingly) 8 mosquitoes from India
(214927) ; 15 mosquitoes from Hthiopia,
Palearctic and Orient including para-
types and larva (214980, exchange).
Commonwealth Institute of Biological
Control, Trinidad, B. W. I.: (Through
Fred D. Bennett) 2 parasitic wasps
from Trinidad (214846).

Grebenc, Lucile, Springfield, Mass.
(See Foss, Ervina Elizabeth)
DONORS TO THE NATIONAL COLLECTIONS

Green, Dorr D. (See Interior, U. S.
Department of the)

Greenhall, Alice, Port of Spain, Trin-
idad: 3 crabs (211669).

Greer, R. G. (See International
Harvester Co.)

Gressitt, Dr. J. Linsley (See Bernice
P. Bishop Museum)

Grice, George D., Jr., Gainesville,
Fla.: Gorgonian from Alligator Har-
bor, Fla. (211107).

Griffin, Arthur M., New York, N. Y.:
Cacheted envelope marking first Man-
hattan flight from West 30th Street
heliport of Port of New York Author-
ity (218622).

Griffith, Melvin E. (See Interna-
tional Cooperation Administration)

Griffiths, Lt. Col. R. J.. Ware, Herts,
England: 18 marine mollusks from
Indian Ocean (210947, exchange).

Grimes, Virginia Lee, Washington,
D. C.: Hungarian candlestick of turned
wood, figurine pincushion from czarist
Russia (214231).

Grobman, Dr. Arnold B., Gainesville,
Fla., and Highton, Dr. Richard, College
Park, Md.: 2 salamanders, paratypes
of a new subspecies, from Virginia
(212244).

Guayaquil, University of (Through
Prof. Fco. Huerta-Montalvo) 10 beetles
from Ecuador (214418).

Gudmundsson, Dr.
Nattuirugripasafnid )

Guillemin, Dr. Claude.
University of)

Gunter, Dr. Gordon, Ocean Springs,
Miss. : Crab from Dog Keys Pass, Miss.
(213948) (through Isaae Ginsburg)
6 fishes from Mississippi (214345).

Gurney, Dr. Ashley B., Washington,
D. C.: 25 miscellaneous insects from
Arlington, Va., Cummington, Mass., and
Fort Knox, Ky. (213279).

Haaf, Dr. E. (See Museum G. Frey)

Haag, Albert P., Tucson, Ariz.: Des-
cloizite on wulfenite, wulfenite, from
Glove mine, Amade, Ariz. (212205, ex-
change).

Habu, Dr. A. (See National Institute
of Agricultural Sciences)

Finnur. (See

(See Paris,

101

Hall, Jack, Riverside, Calif.: 4 bee
flies (214616).

Hall, Thomas R., and Trimble, Bar-
ney F., Silver Spring, Md., Stallion,
Coy, and Trimble, Randolph, Golconda,
Tll.: (Through Dr. Leonard P. Schultz)
25 Mississippian Chester invertebrate
fossils, including 2 exceptionally large
blastoids from Illinois (218048).

Hamelly, Henry, Grove City, Pa.: 33
first-day covers, cacheted envelopes and
cards (211736, 212202, 213456, 214906).

Hamilton, Col. Charles 8. (See Tay-
lor, John M.)

Hamilton, Edward P., Milton, Mass. :
Watchmaker’s lathe (213295).

Hamlet, John, Cambridge, Mass.: 38
shrimps (210575).

Hammer, Dr. Armand.
Jade, Ltd.)

Hammond, Mrs. Margaret Edwards,
Charleston, S. C.: 30 items of Korean
eostume (215040).

Hanahan, Jack, Belmont, N. C.: 4
specimens of “thomasite”’ from Cali-

(See Imperial

fornia (214915, exchange). (See also
Belmont Abbey College)
Handley, C. 0O., Sr. Charleston,

W. Va.: 3 fox squirrels (215044).

Hanna, Dr. G. Dallas. (See Defense,
U. S. Department of, Office of Naval
Research)

Hanson, Wilford J., Lawrence, Kans. :
6 soldier flies, paratypes (214614).

Hardy, D. Elmo, Honolulu, T. H.: 27
flies, paratypes, from Hawaii (212686).

Hardy, Jerry David, Catonsville, Md.:
702 reptiles and amphibians from Cuba,
eoliected by donor (212474).

Hare, Col. and Mrs. Robert P., Wash-
ington, D. C.: Set of 6 Sheraton fancy
chairs and 2 HWnglish back stools, 17th
century (211891, 213033).

Hargett, Mrs. W. V., University Park,
Md.: U. 8. Army officer’s undress coat,
helmets, uniform accessories, and photo-
graphs, 19th century, owned by the late
Capt. Charles Garnett Gordon (2138074).

Harlow, Francis H., Los Alamos,
N. Mex.: 5 crinoids and 20 brachiopods
of the Pennsylvanian, 4 brachiopods of
the Recent (212446, exchange).
102

Harman, Wilbur L., Washington,
D. C.: 2 blue jays (214603).

Harper, Dr. Francis, Mount Holly,
N. J.: 3 toads from Labrador and Quebec
(214717).

Harriman, Mrs. Betty H., Fort Mon-
roe, Va.: Study sample of copperplate
print, 1761 (214263).

Harrington & Richardson, Inc,
Worcester, Mass.: 2 Reising subma-
chine guns (214102).

Harrington, Dr. Robert W., Jr. (See
Florida State Board of Health).
Harrington, Russell C. (See Treas-

ury, U. S. Department of the)

Harry, Dr. Robert R. (See Stanford
University )

Harvard University, Cambridge,
Mass.: (Through Prof. Clifford Fron-
del) Boltwoodite from Pick’s Delta
mine, San Rafael Swell, Utah (213050,
exchange). Arnold Arboretum: 128
grasses from New Guinea (214031) ;
281 phanerogams, 3 grasses, 95 ferns,
from Jamaica, B. W. I. (214242, ex-
change). Biological Laboratories:
(Through Dr. E. O. Wilson) 5 ants
from New Guinea (212681). Depart-
ment of Electrical Engineering:
(Through R. T. Gibbs) 2 generators,
induction motor, power line trans-
former, watt meter (214610). Gray
Herbarium: 1,371 phanerogams, 19
grasses, 74 ferns, from North and South
America, various collectors (211149,
exchange). Museum of Comparative
Zoology: (Through Dr. W. L. Brown)
3 ants, including 1 paratype, 1 cotype
(213071) ; 10 ants including a paratype
from New Guinea and Ceylon (214919) ;
7 paratypes of ants from Papua and
New Guinea (214923) ; 14 North Amer-
ican ants (214939); wasp from Con-
necticut (214975); (through William
C. Schroeder) fish, holotype, from Flor-
ida (213825, deposit).

Hasse, William, Jr., East Haven,
Conn.: 5 early New Haven, Conn., bank
checks and capital stock shares
(214760).

Hatschbach, Dr. Gert, Curitiba, Pa-
rana, Brazil: 32 phanerogams, 10
grasses from Brazil (218602)

U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1957

Hattori, Dr. S. (see Hattori Botani-
cal Laboratory)

Hattori Botanical Laboratory, Nichi-
nan, Miyazaki Prefecture, Japan: 100
hepatics and mosses from Japan
(214470, exchange); (through Dr. S.

Hattori) 100 Japanese bryophytes
(212228, exchange).

Haupt, Frederic W. (See Stromberg-
Carlson Company)

Hawaii, University of, Honolulu,
T. H.: (Through Edward Parsons
Ryan) 14 erabs from Nicaragua
(211648).

Hays, Dr. Kirby L., Auburn, Ala.:
Horsefly from United States (214463).

Hazard, Louisa B., Washington, D.C.:
Tin egg-coddler, 2 sets of jackstraws
(214463).

Health, Education, and Welfare, U.S.
Department of, Washington, D. C. Arc-
tic Health Research Center: (Through
Dr. Kathryn M. Sommerman) 31 black
flies (218070) ; 6 booklice from North
America (214483). National Institutes
of Health: (Through Dr. W. H. Wright)
collection of 913 fleas (214229). WNa-
tional Microbiological Institute:
(Through Dr. C. B. Philip) 5 horseflies
from North Asia (2138533, exchange).
Public Health Service: (Through Dr.
S. W. Simmons) 59 fresh-water mol-
lusks from Puerto Rico (210371) ;
(through Dr. W. L. Jellison) 25 fresh-
water mollusks from Washington
(212078) ; 3 bats from swallow nests,
Spokane, Wash. (212288); (through
Dr. Denny G. Constantine) 2 bats from

San Luis Potosi, Mexico (214223);
(through Charles 8S. Richards) 355 mos-
quitoes from the United States
(214918).

Hebbard, Dr. George M. (See Heb-
bard, Mrs. O. C.)

Hebbard, Mrs. O. C. (deceased) :

(Through Dr. George M. Hebbard) sofa
and bronze figurine lamp base from the
U. §S. Capitol building (2117381).
Heberling, Ralph B., Gainesville, Ga.:
Japanese sword (Samurai), handle
eovered with ray skin and laced with
leather, bamboo scabbard (210555).
DONORS TO THE NATIONAL COLLECTIONS

Hebner, Maurice J. (See Maas, Al-
berto EH.)

Hecht, Robert E., Jr., Rome, Italy:
77 coins (215015).

Hefner, Prof. R. A., Oxford, Ohio: 10
specimens of diplopods, types (212867).

Heinmuller, John P. V., New York,

N. Y.: 7,871 foreign stamps, including,

Austria, Prussia and Switzerland
(211783, 213091).

Helenore, J. C., New York, N. Y.:
Bottle of “Hercules Hungarian Aperi-
ent Water,” 1 bottle of ‘“‘Contrexville”
natural mineral water, and 1 bottle of
“TLycetol-Bayer Gout Water” (215077).

Henbest, Dr. Lloyd. (See Interior,
U. 8S. Department of the)

Henderson, E. P., Washington, D. C.:
2 slices of meteorite from Bonita
Springs, Lee County, Fla. (213046).

Henderson, Mrs. Ethel, Dorchester,
Mass.: Stoneware acid cup, stoneware
switehel jug (212646).

Herbario “Barbosa Rodrigues,”
Itajai, Santa Catarina, Brazil: 298
phanerogams, 73 grasses from Brazil,
collected by Rev. Pe. Raulino Reitz and
associates (211142) ; 215 phanerogams,
86 ferns, from Brazil (211592) ;
(through Rev. Pe. Raulino Reitz) 1807
ferns and fragments collected by donor
(215060).

Hetrick, Dr. L. A., Gainesville, Fla.:
3 larvae and 6 pupae of wasps (213062).

Hewait, Dr. Willis J. (See Virginia
Fisheries Laboratory).

Hewett, D. F. (See Morath, Ro-
land H.).

Hewitt, Edward R., II, New York,
N. ¥.: 12 coins of Yemen (214862).

Hibbard, Raymond R., Buffalo, N. Y.:
17 Devonian brachiopods (211576).

Hicks, Steacy D., Kingston, R. I.: 1
polychaete, approximately 120 amphi-
pods, collected from jellyfish in Narra-
gansett Bay, R. I. (208026).

Highton, Dr. Richard. (See Grob-
man, Dr. Arnold B.)

Hildebrand, Dr. Henry (See Texas,
University of)

Hill, Dr. John Edwards (See Great
Britain, Government of)

103

Hillyer Fund, Virgil L., Smithsonian
Institution: Earthenware baking oven

(212557).

Hinchey, Dr. N.S. (See Washington
University )

Hines, General John L., Chevy Chase,
Md.: Silver-handled walking cane
(214044).

Hinrichs, Mrs. Carl C., St. Louis, Mo.:
(Through Oscar H. Monnig) meteorite
from Kaufman, Tex. (214272).

Hobbs, Dr. Horton H., Jr., Charlottes-
ville, Va.: 201 miscellaneous crusta-
ceans from Florida and Costa Rica and
6 type crayfishes from South Carolina
(209564) ; approximately 1,828 miscel-
laneous marine invertebrates including
45 insects (212601).

Hoberlandt, Dr. L.
Museum)

Hodziewich, Stanley, Hyattsville,
Md.: Program of New York Coliseum
opening franked with “Fipex” souvenir
sheet, 1956 (211548) ; 1 first-day cover,
1 folder showing mural in AFL-CIO
building in Washington, D. C. (212311) ;
3 philatelic specimens (213454).

Hoedeman, Dr. J. J. (See Zodlogisch
Museum)

Hoehne, Dr. F. C., Sio0 Paulo, Brazil:
2 phanerogams from Brazil (213934).

Hoes, Mrs. Gouverneur, Washingtcn,
D. C.: Sterling silver snuffbox with
stamped bust of Dolly Madison raised
on lid, bronze Indian peace medal of
Martin Van Buren, bronze Indian peace
medal of James Monroe, bronze plaque
bearing portrait of Theodore Roosevelt
(211557).

Hoffman, Dr. Glenn L.
Dakota, University of)

Hoffman, Richard L., Blacksburg,
Va.: 15 millipedes, types from United
States, China, and South America
(214766) ; 3 scorpions and 1 solpugid
from Kentucky, Georgia, and Mexico
(214932) ; 3 spiders from North Caro-
lina (214983).

Hokkaido University, Sapporo, Ja-
pan: (Through Dr. Chihisa Watanabe)
290 small parasitic wasps from Japan
(212413, exchange).

(See Narodni

(See North
104

Homan, B. H., Jr., New York, N. Y.:
114 French stampless covers, 18 Heua-
dor original drawings, stamp size
(218087).

Hood, James R., North Chattanooga,
Tenn.: Approximately 900 land and
fresh-water mollusks from the Solomon
Islands, New Britain, and New Cale-
donia (210982, exchange).

Hoogstraal, Dr. Harry. (See De-
fense, U. S. Department of, Department
of the Navy)

Hopkins, Sewell H., Wadmalaw Is-
land, S. C.: 17 marine mollusks from
South Carolina (211278).

Hopkins Marine Station, Pacific
Grove, Calif.: 85 echinoderms, includ-
ing types of 3 species (110560).

Horlbeck, Mrs. F. H., Charleston,
S. C.: Plant from South Carolina
(211060).

Hornibrook, Dr. N. de B., Wellington,
New Zealand: Approximately 60 Fo-
raminifera from the Tertiary of New
Zealand (211719, exchange).

Hoshizaki, Mrs. Barbara Joe.
California, University of)

Hotchkiss, Dr. Ariand T., Louisville,
Ky.: 11 phanerogams from Australia
(212692).

Houston, Prof. Walter S., Manhat-
tan, Kans.: Specimen of meteorite
from Mayday, Kans. (213615) ; meteor-
ite from Norton County, Kans.
(214240).

Hovanitz, Dr. William, Pasadena,
Calif.: 2 butterflies from North Amer-
ica (211588).

Hubbard, Dr. C. Andresen, Tigard,
Oreg.: 19 North American fieas
(212687) ; 137 ticks from Iraq (214635).

Hubbs, Dr. Clark (See Texas, Uni-
versity of)

Hubricht, Leslie, Louisville, Ky.: 380
land mollusks from Kentucky
(210945) ; 1 ring-necked snake, 6 sala-
manders from Kentucky and Indiana
collected by donor (211494); 1 flat-
worm, 4 earthworms, 5 shrimps, from
Mammoth Cave, Ky. (212107) ; approx-
imately 1,200 fresh-water mollusks,
crayfishes, 4 snail-eating beetles, from
Kentucky and Virginia (212989); ap-

(See

U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1957

proximately 400 fresh-water snails from
Alabama, Illinois, Missouri, and Vir-
ginia, including holotype (218650); 3
crayfishes from Kentucky (213949).

Hudson, Prof. George HE. (See
Washington, The State College of)
Huerta-Montalvo, Prof. Feo. (See

Guayaquil, University of)

Hull, W. B. (See Defense, U. S. De-
partment of)

Huntington, Mrs. W. Chapin, Wash-
ington, D. C.: Block of pressed brick
tea collected by donor’s father (212333).

Hurd, Prof. Paul D. (See Califor-
nia, University of)

Hiirlimann, Dr. Hans, Basel, Switzer-
land: Fern from ‘Tonga Islands
(212180).

Husak, Jerome, Milwaukee, Wis.:
Cacheted envelope for “Topex 1956”
(211554) ; International postal card
(218304).

Hutchins, Dr. Ross E. (See Missis-
sippi, State Plant Board of)

Hutchison, P. C. (See California,
University of)

Hutchison, Victor H., Durham, N. C.:
42 salamanders, 1 snake, from Virginia
(212987).

Iceland, Government of, Reykjavik:
(Through Frimerkjasalan) 28 copies
stamps and covers of Iceland (214909).

Idaho, University of (Through Dr.
Stewart C. Schell) 268 fresh-water mol-
lusks from Idaho and Washington
(212118); (through W. F. Barr) 2
small moths from Idaho (212378).

Illinois, University of, Urbana, IIL:
(Through Dr. Harold W. Scott) 42 gas-
tropods, types, of the Lower Ordovician
from Tennessee (211329); (through
Dr. Hobart M. Smith) 18 lizards, para-
types, from United States and Mexico
(214840, exchange).

Illinois Natural History Survey Di-
vision, Urbana, Ill.: (Through Dr.
Lewis J. Stannard) 2 female thrips
from Quebec (212499); 11 slides of
thrips from United States (214474, ex-

change); (through Dr. Thomas E.
Moore) 2 plant bugs, paratypes
(215056).
DONORS TO THE NATIONAL COLLECTIONS

Imperial Jade, Ltd., New York, N. Y.:
(Through Dr. Armand Hammer)
specimen of jade from Long Creek Lode
Mine, Lander, Wyo. (212448).

Imshaug, Dr. Henry A., East Lansing,
Mich.: 50 lichens from Rocky Moun-
tains (212916, exchange).

India, Government of, Geological Sur-
vey, Calcutta: (Through: Dr. V. P.
Sondhi) plaster cast of mollusk from
the Cambrian of Salt Range, Pakistan
(218047, exchange).

Ingeloff, Thorsten, Karlstad, Sweden:
30 Swedish envelopes (211744) ; 7 en-
velopes with Swedish postmarks
(212195); 10 specimens of special
Swedish cancellations (213308); 11
Swedish covers (214903).

Institut Royal des Sciences Natu-
ralles, Brussels, Belgium: (Through
Dr. René Verheyen) 118 birds from
Belgian Congo (209830, exchange).

Institute for Tropical Hygiene and
Geographical Pathology, Amsterdam,
Holland: (Through Dr. J. Bonne-
Wepster) 88 mosquitoes from New
Guinea, Java, and Ceram (212581,
exchange).

Institute of Jamaica, Kingston, Ja-
maica: 134 phanerogams, 11 grasses,
6 ferns (211440, exchange) ; 110 phaner-
ogams, 2 ferns, collected by G. R. Proc-
tor in Jamaica (211321, exchange).

Instituto Agrondmico do Norte,
Belém, Paré, Brazil: 52 phanerogams,
10 grasses, 1 fern from Brazil (212364,
exchange); 3818 phanerogams, 482
grasses, from Brazil, collected by Dr.
George A. Black (214605, exchange).

Instituto de Biologia, Mexico, D. F.
(Through Dr. Alejandro Villalobos F.)
2 shrimps, paratypes (212282)

Instituto de Botanica Darwinion,
San Isidro, Argentina: 26 plants
(212235)

Instituto de Ciencias Naturales, Bo-
gota, Colombia: Plant (213291); 19
plants from Colombia collected by L.
Uribe Uribe and H. Garcia-Barriga
(213607).

Instituto de Pesquizas Agrondémicas,
Pernambuco, Brazil: 13 Brazilian phan-
erogams (215000).

105

Interior, U. S. Department of the,
Washington, D. C.: Fish and Wild-
life Service: Collection of echinoderms
transmitted to the Museum by Dr. Wal-
ter K. Fisher in 1943 (165510); 3
phanerogams from New Mexico
(218857) ; 632 bird skins, 2 bird skele-
tons (214835) ; plant from New Mex-
ico (215001); (through Dr. Giles W.
Mead) 2 fishes (203760); (through
Philip A. Butler) 16 mollusks and 4
marine snails from Florida (203814,
213706) ; (through Roland L. Wigley) 6
marine invertebrates (210168) ;
(through Dr. Harvey R. Bullis, Jr.)
1,041 marine fishes, 35 recent brachio-
pods, 1,757 marine invertebrates, and
1 marins alga collected by the Ore-
gon, Pelican, and Bowers (210952,
211231, 211480); (through Paul R.
Nichols) 5 specimens of Argulus col-
lected from shad, during passing of
shad over Hadley Falls Dam on Con-
necticut River at Holyoke, Mass.
(211868) ; (through Everet C. Jones)
40 copepods (211829); (through Mil-
ton J. Lindner) 13 shrimps from De-
merara River, British Guiana
(212085) ; (through Alden P. Stickney)
10 amphipods from the estuary of
Sheepscot River, Maine (212279) ;
(through Edna N. Sater) die proof of
migratory bird hunting stamp, sheet of
28 $2.00 migratory bird hunting stamps,
1956-57 (212454); through Dr. Don-
ald W. Strasburg) piece of shagreen
from lower jaw of fish, holotype, from
Sydney, New South Wales (213030) ;
(through Jacob M. Valentine, Jr.) skull
of domestic cat from Hog Island, North-
ampton County, Va. (213440) ;
(through Dorr D. Green) 2 prairie
dogs, Oklahoma (214189); (through
Clinton H. Atkinson) rainbow trout
(214611) ; 76 mammals (215042). Geo-
logical Survey: 500 Tertiary brachio-
pods from Okinawa (211336); 10
Ceratopea, including 8 primary types, 2
holotypes, from Oklahoma; 17 Cerato-
pea, including 11 primary types, 5 holo-
types, 1 figured specimen, from the
Geological Survey Lower Ordovician
collections (2138750) ; 33 Foraminifera,
106

including 1 holotype, contained in 238
slides (213751); 71 phanerogams
from Nevada collected by Robert Coats
(212280) ; 2 earthenware cooking pots
from village of Rumu, Yap, Caroline
Islands, collected by Charles G. John-
son, 1947 (212354) ; approximately 1,200
brachiopods of the Silurian and De-
vonian of Maine, collected by Dr. Arthur
J. Boucot (2138438) ; 1,851 phanerogams,
203 grasses, 45 ferns, 43 cryptogams,
from Marshall Islands, collected by Dr.
F. R. Fosberg (214469) ; (through Ar-
thur S. Baker) collection of fish re-
mains from Utah (200057); 3 gastro-
pods from the Hocene of Alsea quad-
rangle, Oreg., collected by W. C. War-
ren, I. §. Allison, R. M. Grivetti, Hans
Norbirath and H. E. Vokes, fossil crab
from Samar Island, P. I. (211680) ; 10
eryptogams from Antarctica, collected
by Charles R. Lewis (211827) ; suite of
disassociated bones and fragments of 3
types of fishes (212748) ; 150 killifish
(212957) ; clausthalite from Corusite
Mine, Grand County, Utah, ferroselite
from AEC No. 8 Mine, Temple Moun-
tain, Emery County, Utah, 1 lot of speci-
mens of hidalgoite from San Pasquale
Mine, Zimapan Mining District, Hidal-
go, México (218019); (through Dr.
Charles W. Merriam) 398 land and
fresh-water mollusks from Alaska
(211207); (through Dr. Preston EH.
Cloud) 400 fragments of mollusks from
Great Bahama Bank, 15 fishes and in-
sects (211681); (through Dr. Lloyd
Henbest) approximately 50 marine mol-
lusks from Handa, Somalia, collected
by Thom Ahrens (212184); (through
Thomas B. Nolan) 6 specimens of
smythite in calcite, type material, from
Bloomington, Ind. (212255); 8 chon-
drostean fishes from South Dakota
(218150); andersonite from Atomic
King No. 2 Mine, San Juan County,
rabbittite from Lucky Strike No. 2
Mine, Emery County, and umohoite
from Piute County, Utah (213581); 1
fish scale from Utah (213705); 146
specimens of invertebrate fossils from
Wyoming, Montana, and Idaho
(214822) ; 18 minerals from various lo-

U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1957

calities and 70 rock specimens from
Paraguay (214967) ; (through Louis L.
Ray) 43 land and fresh-water mol-
lusks from Kentucky (212582) ;
(through Dr. W. H. Bradley) 35 ma-
rine mollusks from Maine (212652) ;
(through Dr. W. P. Woodring) marine
mollusk from Veracruz, Mexico
(212858) ; 4 land shells from Domini-
can Republic, collected by T. W.
Vaughan and Dr. C. Wythe Cooke, 1919
(213840); (through Dr. C. Wythe
Cooke) approximately 1,300 marine
mollusks from Puerto Rico collected by
Dr. Cooke and Arthur D. Watt
(218837) ; (through Dr. Charles B.
Hunt) 157 fishes from Death Valley,
California (214441) ; (through Dr. I. G.
Sohn) 154 specimens of Upper Creta-
ceous Ostracoda from North Carolina
(214828). (See also Academy of Sci-
ences of U. S. S. R.).

International Cooperation Adminis-
tration, Bangkok, Thailand: (Through
Melvin HE. Griffith) 10,000 insects from
Thailand (214376).

International Harvester Co., Wash-
ington, D. C.: (Through R. G. Greer)
seale model of M-5 half-track person-
nel carrier manufactured for U. S.
Army during World War II (2117380).

Iowa, State University of, Iowa City,
Iowa: 351 phanerogams, 22 grasses, 6
ferns, from Iowa, collected by Dr. Rob-
ert Davidson (214248, exchange).

Iowa State College, Ames, Iowa: 8
grasses from Pakistan (218718); 98
specimens of phanerogams (miscel-
laneous legumes), collected by Dr.
Duane Isely (214032, exchange) ;
(through Prof. Jean L. Laffoon) 20
exotie beetles from Iowa (214982).

Irwin, Dr. B. J. D. (deceased) : Speci-
men of meteorite from Tucson, Ariz.
(212670)

Irwin, H. S., Tacoma, Wash.: 67
phaneroganis, 12 grasses, 1 fern, from
British Guiana (209897); 280 phan-
erogams, 60 grasses, 7 ferns (211313).

Islas S., Dr. Federico, Balderas, Mex-
ico: 9 beetles from Mexico (213145,
exchange).
DONORS TO

Israel, Government of, Ministry of
Posts, Jerusalem, Israel: (Through
Moshe Cohen) envelope franked with
airmails, “Sth Anniversary” commem-
orative, and first-day cover commem-
orating Jewish New Year (2122386).

Issiki, Dr. Syiiti. (See Osaka Pre-
fecture, University of)

Izzudin bin Yusoffi, Ibrahim, Kelan-
tan, Federation of Malaya: Kris, a sym-
bol of the Malay Kingdom, and wooden
sheath, 3 photographs of Malayan men
wearing “keris,” presented to the people
of United States (213588).

Jackson, Dr. William B.
tional Research Council)

Jago, John B., San Francisco, Calif. :
1 hibonite and 1 crystal of scapolite
from Madagascar (211568, 211715); 1
fornacite from Djoue, French Congo,
Africa (213991, exchange).

Jalet, Mrs. Frances, Washington,
D. C.: Dreyse automatic pistol and
Beretta automatie pistol, both with hol-
sters (212874).

Jamison, J. B., Los Gatos, Calif.: 2
dresses and silk slippers (214892).

Jamnback, Dr. Hugo. (See New
York State Museum)

Jardim Botanico do Rio de Janeiro,
Rio de Janeiro, Brazil: 23 plant speci-
mens from Brazil (213605, exchange).

Jardin Botanique de l’Etat, Brussels,
Belgium : 509 phanerogams, 95 grasses,
22 ferns, from Belgium and Belgian
Congo (213757, exchange); (through
Dr. W. Robyns) 100 eryptogams from
Belgium (212058, exchange).

Jedlicka, John F., New York, N. Y.:
cassiterite from Oulmes, Central Maroc,
molybdenite from Azegour, Maroc
(214239).

Jellison, Dr. William L., Hamilton,
Mont.: 8 lice (213072). (See also
Health, Education, and Welfare, De-
partment of)

Jenkinson, Mildred E., Bideford,
North Devonshire, England: North
Devonshire redware pottery pan
(214355).

Jerome, Dr. Shepard, Mobile, Ala. : 35-
year-old cystoscope (214894).

437255—_57——_-8

(See Na-

THE NATIONAL COLLECTIONS

107

Jiménez, Dr. José de Js., Santiago
de Los Caballeros, Dominican Republic:
1 plant, 202 phanerogams, 6 ferns, 11
grasses from Dominican Republic
(211188, 211820, 212060, 212238, 213836) .

Johns, Daryl D., Washington, D. C.:
Marriage contract, dated May 28, 1688,
made in London Stile, Middlesex
(211556).

Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore,
Md.: (Through Joseph Lintz, Jr.) 66
invertebrate fossils of the Ames and
Brush Creek shales, Pennsylvanian
Conemaugh formation of Western
Maryland (211380); (through Dr.
Ernst Cloos) 311 Miocene mollusks
from the Zorritos District of Pert
(2148388).

Johnson, Dr. Carl M., Panama, R. P.:
(Through Dr. Alexander Wetmore)
Cook’s tree boa from Canal Zone, Pan-
ama (212593).

Johnsen, Don, Falls Church, Va.: 2
centerfire cartridges (214041).

Johnson, Dr. Martin W. (See Scripps
Institution of Oceanography)

Johnson, Phyllis T., Washington,
D. C.: 28 small mammals from Quebee
(212014).

Johnson, William W., Washington,
D. C.: Confederate 100-dollar bond
(214866).

Jones, Calvin M.
U. S. Department of)
Jones, Charles L.

Department of)

Jones, Dr. E. Ruffin.
University of)

Jones, Mrs. Edward Darlington,
Santa Barbara, Calif.: (Through Dr.
Henry 8B. Collins) collection of pre-
historie and modern Hskimo artifacts
and carvings from St. Lawrence Island,
collected by Admiral Edward D. Jones,
1920-80 (213544).

Jones, Mrs. Elizabeth, Washington,
D. C.: Uniform coat, ca. 1902, miscel-
laneous Specimens of insignia and mili-
tary ornaments, period 1898-1902
(212873).

Jones, Everet C.
Department of the)

(See Agriculture,
(See State, U. S.

(See Florida,

(See Interior, U. S.
108

Jones, Mrs. Frances, Washington,
D. C.: Large envelope franked with 54
Philippine 5 centavos Marcelo H. Del
Pelar stamps (213460).

Jones, Dr. Frank Morton, Wilming-
ton, Del.: 27 bag-worms from Brazil
(214488).

Jones, Dr. Robert H. (See Agricul-
ture, U. S. Department of)

Jordan, Dr. A. M., Kaduma, Northern
Nigeria, British West Africa: 8 tsetse
flies from Africa (214615).

Jordan, Dr. Helen E., Athens, Ga.:
% land snails from Georgia (211121).

Jordan Marsh Company, Boston,
Mass.: (Through Newton L. Walzer)
3 doorways, 2 archways (1 modern) 1
modern stairway from “Oak Hill,” Pea.
body, Mass. (211468).

Justice, U. S. Department of, Wash-
ington, D. C. United States Marshal,
Washington, D. C.: 4 firearms (213557).

Kahle, Keith, Fort Worth, Tex.:
First-flight cover, Liberal, Kans., 1956
(212816).

Kallejian, Dr. Verne.
Hospital Association )

Kansas University of, Lawrence,
Kans.: 672 phanerogams, 51 grasses,
11 ferns, from Kansas (211589, 213756,
214604, exchange) (through Dr. C. D.
Michener) 158 bees from South Amer-
ica (214776, exchange). (See also De-
fense, Department of, Department of
the Navy)

Karlin, Edward, Ithaca, N. Y.: 7 land
snails from Tompkins County, N. Y.
(211020).

Karrick, Mrs. David B., Washington,
D. G.: 10 ethnographical objects of In-
dian provenance, from British Guiana,
collected by donor, 1930; also flintlock
mechanism for gun, picked up by donor
at the Citadel, Haiti (214854).

Kass, David E. (See Aker, Samuel)

Kass, George G. (See Aker, Samuel)

Kaye, E. Donald. (See Pecos Min-
erals)

Kaye, Frank B., Arlington, Va.: 1
camera, 4element, tintype lens board
assembly (213822).

Keenan, C. M. (See Defense, Depart-
ment of, Department of the Army)

(See American

U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1957

Keenan, Charles J., Portland, Oreg.:
2 envelopes with railways cachets Sept.
2, 1956, Bend, Oreg. (215021)

Keeton, William, Ithaca, N. Y.: 29
millipedes, including types, from United
States (214871).

Keller, Mrs. Ira, Washington, D. C.:
Early 19th-century mantelpiece
(211604).

Kellogg, Dr. Remington, Washington,
D. C.: Switzerland envelope with meter
marking and “Ville de Geneva” mu-
seum meter adhesive (213458).

Kellogg Switchboard & Supply Co.,
Chicago, Ill.: (Through O. C. Bailey)
telephone equipment for the telephone
exhibit (215006).

Kelly, Preston L., Washington, D. C.:
Tiger-eye cabochon from ‘Transvaal,
South Africa (212664).

Kelly, Dr. William A., Hast Lansing,
Mich.: Specimen of straight-shelled
cephalopod completely enclosed by a
stromatopore, from the Devonian rocks
at Afton, Michigan (214751).

Kennedy, Prof. George C., Los Ange-
les, Calif.: 2 specimens of basalt from
Paricutin vyoleano, Mexico, collected in
April 1946 (203409).

Kernodle, George H., Washington,
D. C.: Spanish chandelier hook
(212644).

Kerrich, G. J.
Government of)

Kincaid, Dr. Trevor, Seattle, Wash.:

(See Great Britain,

22 copepods, including cotypes
(211106).
King, Col. Norman, Washington,

D. C.: 6 Ryukyu first-day covers, 1
Ryukyu posteard (211841).

Kirk, Mrs. Edwin, Charlottesville,
Va.: 28 glass and pottery specimens
from the Edwin Kirk collection
(210339); 4,665 specimens, mostly
echinoderms of the Ordovician, includ-
ing Paleozoic crinoids and miscella-
neous Palezoic invertebrate fossils,
from Kirkfield, Ontario, and Burling-
ton, Iowa (212887).

Kitahama, Kiichi, Osaka, Japan: 7
specimens associated with Japanese
folklore of the puffer, consisting of 3
DONORS TO THE NATIONAL COLLECTIONS

puffer skin lanterns, with chimneys
and handles, 4 ceramic objects consist-
ing of whistle, amulet, dish, and ash
tray (210492).

Knight, Dr. J. Brookes, Sarasota,
Fla.: Gorgonian from Gulf of Mexico
(211044).

Knotts, Mrs. Iris C., Washington,
D. C.: 6 weapons, consisting of bow,
arrow, 2 daggers, 2 double-headed
lances, from Bolivia, collected by N. D.
Knotts (218036).

Knowles, Adelaide A., St. Petersburg,
Fla.: Gray silk dress, ca. 1855 (212655).

Knowlton, Dr. G. F. (See Utah State
Agricultural College)

Knox, Mrs. Katherine McCook, Wash-

ington, D. C.: Stuffed cloth bird
(218768).

Koford, Carl B. (See Smithsonian
Institution, Canal Zone Biological
Area)

Kondo, Dr. Yoshio.
seum, Bernice P.)

Kopf, Rudolph, Price, Utah: 500
Devonian (Hamilton) brachiopods from
the Kasong shale of western New York
(211472).

Korean Chindan Society, Seoul, Ko-
rea: (Through Marcus W. Scherbacher)
Buddhist dancer doll, postured with
right arm and both legs flexed; cos-
tumed in traditional robes (209846).

Kormiley, Dr. Nicolas A., Brooklyn,
N. Y.: 44 insects from Texas and Ar-
gentina (214489) ; 2 paratypes of true
bugs from Argentina (210363, ex-
change).

Kostkos, Henry J.
phone Laboratories)

Kramer, Wilhelm, Velkert, Germany :
Franked postcard and a 10-mark East-
ern Germany Robert Schumann stamp
(215068).

Krauss, N. L. H., Honolulu, T. H.:
948 miscellaneous insects fron West
Indies and Yucatan (210101); 3,436
miscellaneous insects from North, South
and Central America (210103, 207758) ;
31 land and fresh-water mollusks from
Mexico, Bahamas, and Louisiana
(211292) ; 531 ants from South Africa

(See Bishop Mu-

(See Bell Tele-

109

(213151, 214020); 482 specimens of
scarabs from Rhodesia (214633).

Kreger, A. V., Virginia Beach, Va.:
Skull of pigmy sperm whale from Vir-
ginia Beach (212614).

Krieg, Fred H., Jr., Falls Church, Va.:
Marten from Bavaria (211530).

Krinov, Dr. E. L. (See Academy of
Sciences of U. S. S. R.) :

Krombein, Karl V., Arlington, Va.;
118 wasps, 83 insects from Lost River
State Park, W. Va. (212690) ; 3 wasps,
type, allotype, and paratype (214226) ;
128 wasps from North Carolina
(214768).

Krombein, Dr. Louis H., Derby, N. Y.:
Devonian goniatite from the Styliolina
limestone, Erie County, N. Y. (212886) ;
370 insects from Florida (214477).

Krukoff, B. A., Long Island, N. Y.: 50
drug plants (211129).

Krumholz, Dr. Louis A.
Marine Laboratory)

Kuns, Capt. Merle L.
ell, A/1C Marin M.)

Kuntz Comdr. Robert E. (See De-
fense, U. S. Department of, Department
of the Navy)

Kuykendall, Mrs. David Fox, Cum-
berland, Md.; Children’s dresses and
baby cape (214393).

Kyoto University, Kyoto, Japan:
(through Prof. M. Tagawa) 500 ferns
from Japan (214250, exchange).

La Bellman, Capt. Meyer, Orlando,
Fla.: 12 pelecypods from the Eocene
or Oligocene of Florida (214455).

Ladies’ Hermitage Association, Her-
mitage, Tenn.: Gold, buff, and white
china bowl from one of the dinner serv-
ices used at White House by President
Andrew Jackson, and a Sheffield cov-
ered vegetable dish with sterling silver
stag’s head handle bought by President
Jackson from widow of Commodore De-
catur in 1833 and used in the White
House (212054).

Laffoon, Prof. Jean L.
State College)

Lagaaij, Dr. Robert, Houston, Tex.:
Approximately 16 gorgonians from Pa-
cifie coast, 10 Cretaceous brachiopods

(See Lerner

(See McDow-

(See Iowa
110

and 6 specimens of an Austin Chalk
brachiopod from Texas (212368,
212431).

Lamore, Donaid, Greenbelt, Md.: 3
pouch-young of opossum and 1 yellow-
billed cuckoo (211295, 211298) ; 1 bat,
1 shrew from France (211963); 166
European spiders (214920).

Lamson, Guy C., East Orange, N. J.:
8 clams from San Blas Islands, Pan-
ama (214452).

Lang, Dr. Karl, Stockholm, Sweden:
176 copepods, collected in Sweden and
South Africa 1934-36 by Dr. Lang and
Per Brink (213165).

Langden, Winston, Hornersville, Mo.:
Langdon collection of maritime photo-
graphs (212376).

Lantern League of the Old North
Chureh, Boston, Mass.: Wood steeple
finial from ‘Old North’ Church, Bos-
ton, Mass. (210563).

LaRivers, Dr. Ira, Reno, Nev.: Water
bug from Paraguay, paratype (215054).
Latham, Reger.
Game Commission)

Latham, Roy, Orient, Long Island,
N. Y. 73 land snails from New York
(210011).

Lawrence, Dr. Barbara.
let, John)

Learnard, R. A., Washington, D. C.:
1 jungle quail, 4 bird skeletons (211699,
2150389).

Leech, Dr. Hugh 8.
Academy of Sciences)

Lehmann, Pref. D. Heal Arno, Halle-
Wittenburg, Hast Germany: 7 canceled
East German postage stamps (215025).

Leonard, W. M. (See Consolidated
Edison Company of New York, Inc.)

Leonardi, Modesto, Trona, Calif.:
Specimen of minium with massicot
from Drift 837, Defiance mine, Dar-
win, Calif., 2 sassolites from California
Borate mine, San Bernardino County,
Calif. (212853, exchange).

Lerner Marine Laboratory, Miami,
Fla.: (Through Dr. Louis A. Krum-
holz) 2 frogfishes from the Bahama Is-
lands (214994).

(See Pennsylvania

(See Ham-

(See California

U. S.. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT,

1957

Lesher, Daniel G. H., Waynesboro,
Pa.: Pennsylvania bar share plow,
1807; linen grain sack, 1842 (214608).

Leslie, Alexander, Carmunnock, Lan-
arkshire, Scotland: (Through U. 8.
Department of State) U. 8. light-artil-
lery saber, Model 1840 (211479).

Leve, J. Arthur, New York, N. Y.:
Collection of stamps, France and Col-
onies (211738) ; 4-volume collection of
4,692 stamps, from British America,
Africa, Hurope-Oceania, and Asia
(213081).

Lewis, Col. B. R., Philadelphia, Pa.:
Ethnographical specimens from the Pi-
aroa and Goajiro Indians and bows and
arrows from the Motilone Indians,
Venezuela (214648, exchange).

Lewis, J. G. (See Queen Mary Col-
lege)

Liberia, Republic of: (Through Li-
berian Philatelic Agency) 7 Melbourne
Olympic Games commemorative stamps,
6 Liberian stamps (218310, 214905).

Liberian Philatelic Agency (See Li-
beria, Republic of)

Library of Congress, Washington,
D. C.: (Through Jennings Wood) 2
Virginia Treasury one-dollar notes, 1
facsimile of Confederate States of
America fifty-dollar note (211559).

Lillard, Carrol! C., Washington, D.C.:
Alligator wrench (211701).

Limbaugh, Conrad. (See Scripps In-
stitution of Oceanography )

Limric, Mr. and Mrs. Joseph W.,
Medfield, Mass.: New England “peach-
blow” glass vase (214582).

Linck, Robert, Villanova, Pa.: Autun-
ite from Daybreak mine, Spokane,
Wash. (212946, exchange).

Lindner, Milton J. (See Interior,
U. S. Department of the)

Lindquist, Harry L., New York, N. Y.:
95 Denmark booklets of 2,140 stamps,
170 Sweden booklets of 3,284 stamps
(218082).

Lintz, Joseph, Jr.
kins University)

Lions International, Charlotte, N. C.:
(Through John L. Stickley) 200 unused
stamps of the Philippine Islands
(211741).

(See Johns Hop-
DONORS TO THE NATIONAL COLLECTIONS

Locklin, Charles R., Pontiac, Mich.:
2 marine mollusks, paratypes, from
Cuba and Florida (211294) ; 1 very rare
marine snail from Bahama Islands,
2,000 fossil mollusks from the St.
Petersburg Pliocene of Florida
(214738).

Leeblich, Dr. Alfred R., Jr.,
Loeblich, Dr. Helen T.)

Loeblich, Dr. Helen T., and Dr. Al-
fred R., Jr.: 7 foraminiferal samples of
the Aquia formation of Maryland
(211727).

Lehse, Dr. Gustay Adolf, Hamburg,
Germany: 9 specimens of 4 species of
beetles (212320).

Loman, Mr. & Mrs. William, Wash-
ington, D. C.: Needlepoint chair seat
(212897) ; (through Mrs. Arnold Miles)
10 costume specimens, mid and late
19th century (211350).

Long, Elmer R., Harrisburg, Pa.: In-
augural-day cacheted envelope post-
marked Jan. 21, 1957 at Washington,
D. C. (214897).

Long, G L. (See Bell Telephone
Company of Canada, The)
Lonsdale, Dr. John T.

University of)

Lopez Figueiras, Manuel, Santiago
de Cuba, Cuba: 641 phanerogams, 1
grass, 52 ferns, 3 eryptogams, from
Cuba (214247).

Los Angeles County Museum, Los
Angeles, Calif.: 179 phanerogams and
60 grasses from Brazil, collected by
Dr. BH. Yale Dawson (212127, 212309).

Los Angeles, City of, Los Angeles,
Calif.: (Through Richard H. Bullard)
51 cultivated ferns (210423)

Louisiana Polytechnic Institute, Rus-
ton, La.. 45 grasses from Louisiana
(212026).

Louisiana State University, Baton
Rouge, La.: 4 grasses from North Caro-
lina, collected by Dr. Clair A. Brown
(2138809).

Lowe, Edith Blinston, Washington,
D. C.: Inlaid Turkish box, 1 walnut
desk-box (214232).

Lowenstein, Ernest, New York, N. Y.:
73 varieties of Mauritius stamps, 1 pic-
ture posteard (211549).

(See

(See Texas,

lil

Lowenstein, Tom, New York, N. Y.:
2,483 stamps of Australia, 1,416 stamps
of Austrian Levant and offices of the
Hungarian Empire, 162 stamps of
Lundy Islands (211550).

Loyd, Mrs. Charles Y., Arlington,
Va.: Knitted counterpane, linen sheet,
pillowcase, wool twill blanket, wool
blanket marked “J W T,” tufted coun-
terpane (212441).

Loyola University, New Orleans, La. :
(Through Prof. Walter G. Moore) 138
brachiopods from Oklahoma and Texas
(212559).

Luczkowska, Dr. Ewa, Cracow, Po-
land: 2,695 Woraminifera from the Cre-
taceous, Eocene and Miocene of Poland
(209262, exchange).

Lund, University of, Lund, Sweden:
(Through Dr. Gerhard Regnéll) 94
brachiopods of the Cretaceous from
Sweden (214167, exchange).

Lutz, Dr. Bertha, Rio de Janeiro,
Brazil: Piant (212232).

Lyman, Dr. John. (See Defense,
U. 8S. Department of, Department of the
Navy)

Lynn, Dr. W. Gardner, Washington,
D. C. 23 frogs from Jamaica and
Antigua (214582). (See also Catholic
University and Maj. Chapman Grant)

Maas, Alberto E., Alamos, Sonora,
Mexico: (Through Maurice J. Hebner)
clinozoisite from Sonora, Mexico
(214348).

MacAulay, Arthur E., Grand Rapids,
Mich.: Fijian war club, collected by
John Thompson, 1830 (212835).

McDowell, A/1C Marin M., Shreve-
port, La.: (Through Capt. Merle L.
Kuns) burrowing snake from Mona
Island, P. I., collected by donor
(213858).

MacGinitie, G. E., Newport Beach,
Calif.: 1 Holothurian (110560).

MacGregor, Malcolm, Bronxville,
N. Y¥.: Glo-Craft quartz lamp, Kimac
viewer with slide (213086).

Machatschki, Dr. F. (See Meixner,
Dr. Heinz)

Mackenthun, Dr. Kenneth M., Madi-
son, Wis.: 2 samples of diatoms from
Wisconsin (211836).
112

MacLean, William P., New York,
N. Y.: Wall lizard from Madrid, Spain
(212777).

MacLeod, Ellis, Olney, Md.: 38 speci-
mens of spongilla-flies from Great
Falls, Md. (211542).

Macnae, William, Grahamstown,
South Africa: 15 mollusks from South
Africa (212768).

Macurdy, Arthur, Silver Spring, Md.:
Lower cheek tooth of fossil horse and
distal end of tarso-metatarsus of fossil
bird from cliffs of Chesapeake Bay near
Parker’s Creek, Md. (211134).

Magner, Rey. James A. (See Catho-
lic University of America)

Maguire, Dr. Bassett (See New York
Botanical Garden)

Mahadeva, N. (See California, Uni-
versity of)

Mahadevan, Prof., Waltair, India:
(Through George L. Schoechle) 106 am-
phipods (212086).

Maisel, William, Baltimore, Md.: 16
U. S. stamped envelopes, 2 portions of
stamped envelopes with stamp impres-
sions intact (213551).

Malaga-Alba, Dr. Aurelio, Mexico,
D. F.: Vampire bat (215045).

Maldonado-Capriles, Dr. J., Maya-
guez, Puerto Rico: 25 leaf hoppers
from upper reaches of Amazon River,
Brazil (211544) ; 3 mosquitoes with as-
sociated larval skins from Puerto Rico
(214928).

Maloney, Robert H., Toledo, Ohio:
Two-tiered replica of 19th-century
apothecary show globe (215076).

Manderschied, Clara (See Mander-
schied, Mrs. Jane Tompkins (de-
ceased) )

Manderschied, Mrs. Jane Tompkins
(deceased): (Through Clara Mander-
schied) early 19th-century petit point
embroidery (214891).

Manning, Mr. and Mrs. John, Beverly
Hills, Calif.: (Through Gilbert L.

U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1957

razor set, Auto Strap safety razor, 1 lot
of hand-forged nails from colonial
house on Patuxent River, Keen Kutter
safety razor in box, presented in mem-
ory of donor’s husband (211708) ;
(through Rosemary L. Marsh) French
pocket pedometer (211902).

Marsh, J. A., Rockhampton, Queens-
land, Australia: Marine mollusk from
Queensland, Australia (212341).

Marshall, Byren C., Hot Springs Na-
tional Park, Ark.: Pickeringite from
barite mines, Hot Springs County, Ark.
(218899).

Marshall, General George C., Wash-
ington, D. C.: Sicilian cart presented
to donor in honor of contribution Amer-
ican people and the American Govern-
ment made through the European Re-
covery Plan (214709).

Martin, Margaret B.
Prof. Albert Henry)

Maryland, University of, College

(See Bickmore,

Park, Md.: (Through Dr. Howard B.
Winn) 28 fishes from Bermuda
(210916).

Maslin, Dr. T. Paul
University of)

Massachusetts, University of, Am-
herst, Mass.: (Through Prof. William
B. Becker) 5 isopods from a piece of
wood (206657) ; (through D. J. Suther-
land) 11 fishfly larvae, 7 non-biting
midge larvae, from North Amherst,
Mass. (214866); (through Dr. C. P.
Alexander) $3 flies from worldwide
(214917).

Massachusetts General Hospital,
Boston, Mass.: Pre-1900 hospital ward
fixtures consisting of blacksmith bed,
pitcher, bowl, chamber, bookcase, bed-
side table, and bedwarmer (210567).

Masters, George E., St. Paul, Minn.:
Cacheted airmail envelope, 30th-anni-
versary flight, New York to Seattle,
1956 (213092).

Masterson, Mrs. Doris, Ukiah, Calif. :

(See Colorado,

Voss) 35 Crustaceans collected in Chile | 83 specimens of a small wasp from Ukiah,

by donors (210701).

Marsh, Mrs. George Everett, Wash-
ington, D. C.: Wade & Butcher
straight-edged razor, “The Fox” safety

Calif. (211541).

Matsunaga, Takashi, Tokyo, Japan:
8 Foraminifera from the Tertiary of
Japan (211725, exchange).
DONORS TO THE NATIONAL COLLECTIONS

Matthews, Ransom, Los Angeles,
Calif.;: Atwater Kent ignition system,
model K-2 (211154).

Mattingly, P. F. (See Great Britain,
Government of)

Mattoni, Dr. R. H. T., Los Angeles,
Calif.: 6 butterflies from North Amer-
ica (211548).

Mattox, Dr. N. T. (See Southern
California, University of)

Mavromoustakis, G. A., Limassol,
Cyprus: 33 named bees from Cypress,
331 wasps, 14 bees, from Europe
(212866, 214493, exchange).

McAfee, Mrs. William, Washington,
D. C.: Child’s dress, pale yellow
(213452).

McAuliffe, Philip J.. Lynn, Mass.: 4
glass-labeled shelfware drug botiles
(214850).

McBee, R. H., Bozeman, Mont.:
Young Skua gull from Antarctic col-
lected by Karl Eklund (214116).

McCall, Francis J., Washington,
D. ©C.: 50 Supreme Court special
stamps, 1950, 200 Mount Vernon stamps,
1954 (211340); Princeton Alumni
Weekly, vol. 56, No. 30, featuring Nas-
sau Hall stamp, and autographs of
Supreme Court Justice John Marshall
Harlan and Harold W. Dodds, President
of Princeton (212451) ; 14 specimens of
covers franked with copies of Bermuda
stamps, and paper with cancellations,
registrations, etc. markings of Bermuda
now obsolete (213301) ; envelope USN
“Little America Operation Deepfreeze”
cancellation (215022).

McCandless, Ronald R., Butler, Pa.:
Bottle of Bateman’s pectoral drops, and
advertisement of uses of this medicine
(213044).

MeDermott, Frank A., Wilmington,
Del.: 3 glowworms from North America,
2 adults and 1 larva of a beetle from
Delaware (211539, 214627).

MeDiarmid, Dr. Erret W.
nesota UNESCO Committee)

McDunnough, Dr. J., Halifax, Can-
ada; 7 paratypes of 4 new species of
Coleophora (213411).

McFarland, William N.
Kenneth 8.)

(See Min-

(See Norris,

113

McGinty, Thomas L., Boynton Beach,
Fla.: 6 marine mollusks from West
Indies (211825).

McGuinness, Albert L., Butte, Mont. :
Specimen of gold from Liberty, Wash.,
ilvaite from Laxi mine, South Moun-
tain, Idaho, 1 ludlamite and vivianite
and 1 vivianite from Blackbird District,
Lemhi County, Idaho, 1 ferberite from
Rollinsville District, Boulder County,
Colo., 1 hinsdalite on enargite and co-
vellite and 8 digenites from Leonard
mine, Butte, Mont. (212854, exchange) ;
1 vivianite and ludlamite, 1 vivianite
with evansite from Lemhi County,
Idaho, 1 tennantite on digenite, 2 di-
genites from Butte, Mont. (214238,
214692, exchange).

McKaig, W. Wallace, Cumberland,
Md.: 2 wedding invitations (214395).

McKenney, Mrs. Gladys, Kissimmee,
fla.: Brown silk dress (213449).

McKinney, Miss Elva L., Washington,
D. C.: Victorian cardboard embroi-
dery and Staffordshire gaudy luster cup
(211579, 211600).

McLane, Dr. William M., Ft. Lauder-
dale, Fla.: Approximately 550 shrimps,
84 bopyrid isopods (212506). (See also
Florida Game and Fresh Water Fish
Commission)

MeNally, J. H., San Francisco, Calif. :
12 scarab beetles from North America
(214491).

MecVaugh, Dr. Rogers.
gan, University of)

Mead, Dr. Giles W., Washington,
D. C.: Crab from Sagami Bay, Japan
(212084) ; 3 fishes, scombroid skeletons,
from Japan (213246). (See also
Backus, Dr. Richard H., Stick, Frank,
and Interior, U. S. Department of the)

Mechanix Illustrated, New York,
N. Y.: Model of U. S. submarine Nauwti-
lus CSSN-570 (210194).

Medem, Dr. Fred, Bogoti, Colombia:
19 frogs from Colombia collected by
donor (211682).

Mehta, Dhirubhai, Bombay, India: 2
Indian first-day covers and 2 en-
velopes commemorating events in In-
dia (211348, 212452, 214899).

(See Michi-
114

Meixner, Dr. Heinz, Karnten, Ger-
many: (Through Dr. F. Machatschki)
tertschite from Kurtpinari mine, Faras,
Turkey (213845).

Merck & Company, Inc., Rahway,
N. J.: Plant from Guatemala and 7
phanerogams (211139, 211140).

Merriam, Dr. Charles W. (See In-
terior, U. 8. Department of the)

Merrill, Eliza W. (See Merrill, Ger-
trude H.)

Merrill, Gertrude H., and Merrill,
Eliza W., Arlington, Va.: 1 bedwarmer
and 1 manuscript (211894).

Messersmith, Jesse B., Danville, Pa.:
Strip of rag carpet (213543).

Metz, Prof. Dr. K. (See Universitit
Graz, Geologische Institut)

Meurer, J. J., Hillegom, The Nether-
lands: (Through Dr. Reece I. Sailer)
96 specimens of 21 species of insects
from Holland (218781, exchange).

Miami, University of, Coral Gables,
HWla.: (Through Don de Sylva) 2 fishes
from Amazon territory of Peru
(211534); (through Dr. C. Richard
Robins) 2 fishes, including an anten-
narid from Florida, and an anchovy
from Chile (214344).

Michener, Dr. C. D.
University of)

Michigan, University of, Ann Arbor,
Mich.: 75 grasses from Mexico, col-
lected by Dr. José Vera Santos
(207787) ; 85 lichens chiefly from Rocky
Mountain National Park (211153, ex-
change) ; 845 phanerogams, 27 grasses,
231 ferns from Hong Kong, 250 ferns
and 268 phanerogams from California
and Mexico (212799, 213579, ex-
change) ; 38 duck skeletons (214836) ;
(through Dr. Warren H. Wagner, Jr.)
4 fern hybrids (212178) ; (through Dr.
G. Alan Solem) approximately 100 land
and fresh-water mollusks including 7
paratypes from New Hebrides, Brazil,
and Mexico (212339, exchange) ;
(through Dr. Robert R. Miller) 30
shrimps from Laguna Coyuea, Guer-
rero, Mexico (212753); (through Dr.
Rogers MeVaugh) phanerogam from
Mexico (212911, exchange) ; 153 Mexi-
ean ferns (213604, gift-exchange) ;

(See Kansas,

U. S&S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1957

(through Dr. Reeve M. Bailey and Dr.
William Ralph Taylor) 14 fishes con-
sisting of 5 skeletons and 9 paratypes
(218013, exchange).

Michigan State University, East Lan-
sing, Mich.: 39 ferns (212083);
(through Prof. Burr K. Osborn) AC
generator, DC generator, DC motor
(214022).

Miles, Mr. and Mrs. Arnold, Wash-
ington, D. C.: Green plush collar and
euff box, early 20th century, containing
7 stiffiy starched white cuffs and pair
of painted china cuff links (211349) ;
“John Bell/Waynesboro” redware pot
(211603) ; “Violetta” high-frequency
generator, with simulated leather car-
rying case (212531) ; 31 specimens of
costumes and costume accessories, 19th-
and 20th-centuries (212883); 3 silk
handkerchiefs, small study sample of
hand-woven carpeting (212898) ; Reflex
gas mantie, glass curling-iron holder
(213034) ; needlework picture and proc-
ess specimen of battenberg lace
(214262) ; (See also Loman, Mr. and
Mrs. William)

Miller, Dr. A. K., Iowa City, Iowa:
Brachiopod from the Devonian of
Ontario (213613).

Miller, Geraid Henry, Miami, Fla.:
6 Chinese stamps (214047).

Miller, Gerrit S., Jr. (estate of):
(Through Mrs. Robert Schwaab) 14
small mammals (211135).

Miller, Dr. N. C. E., London, Eng-
land: 2 insects from Belgian Congo
(214228).

Miller, Dr. Norman M.
Dr. Henry W.)

Miller, R. Keith.
versity of)

Miller, Dr. Robert R.
University of)

Miller, Comdr. Walter B., Port Hu-
eneme, Calif.: (Through Dr. G. Alan
Solem) land mollusk, holotype, from
New Hebrides (212340).

Milliron, Dr. Herbert, Newark, Del.:
5 moths (212008, 213073).

Mincham, Hans, Whyalla, South Aus-
tralia: 22 Tertiary mollusks, 15 Cam-

(See Setzer,
(See Nevada, Uni-

(See Michigan,
DONORS TO THE

brian pleosponges, 3 ‘Triassic plants
from Australia (211636, exchange).

Mineralogisches Institut der Univer-
sitat Heidelberg, Germany: (Through
Dr. F. Seelinger) 2 specimens of calcio-
ferrite from Germany (214912).

Mineralogisch-Petrographisches In-
stitut der Universitat, Heidelberg, Ger-
many: (Through Prof. Paul Ram-
dohr) specimen of hastite and trog-
talite from Harz, Germany (214237).

Miners Foundry & Manufacturing
Co., Nevada City, Calif.: (Through R.
RK. Goyne) Pelton water turbine
(212875).

Ministério da Agricultura, Divisio
de Fomento da Producao Animal, Rio de
Janeiro, Brazil: 4 grasses from Brazii
(210188).

Ministério da Viacio e Obras Pa-
blicas, Fortaleza-ce, Brazil: (Through
Dr. Carlos Bastos Tigre) 6 fishes from
Brazil (210165, exchange).

Ministério de Agricultura, Havana,
Cuba: (Through Ing. Fernando de
Zayas Mufoz) 12 moths, 1 fly, 10 true
bugs, 12 beetles (212985, exchange).

Ministério de Agricultura y Cria, Ca-
racas, Venezuela: 4 phanerogams, 5
grasses, 53 ferns, 7 cryptogams
(211914) ; 150 phanerogams, 2 ferns
from Venezuela collected by Dr. Lean-
dro Aristeguieta (213829, 213834); 33
phanerogams, 19 grasses, 1 fern from
Venezuela, collected by Dr. Francisco
Tamaya (2111387, 213514).

Minneapolis-Honeywell Regulator
Co., and Brown, R. P., Philadelphia,
Pa.: 38 Brown electric pyrometers
(214264).

Minnesota, University of, Minne-
apolis, Minn.: 464 phanerogams, 43
grasses, 31 ferns, 20 cryptogams
(214108, gift-exchange) ; Duluth
Branch: 1 grass, 29 ferns from Minne-
sota (218546).

Minnesota UNESCO Committee,
Minneapolis, Minn.: (Through Dr.
Hrret W. McDiarmid) UNESCO seal
(218811).

Mississippi, State Plant Board of,
State College, Miss.: (Through Dr.

NATIONAL COLLECTIONS

115

Ross H. Hutchins) 25 ants from Missis-
sippi (214868).

Missouri, University of, Columbia,
Mo.: 1 grass from Missouri (211093).

Missouri Botanical Garden, St. Louis,
Mo..: 54 ferns from Peru (214471, ex-
change) ; 443 phanerogams, 160 grasses,
15 ferns, 3 cryptogams, from Hast Af-
rica (211591, exchange) ; 443 phanero-
gams, 2 ferns collected by Leopold A.
Charette (214889, exchange).

Mitchell, Prof. T. B. (See North
Carolina State College)

Mockford, Edward L., Pinckney,
Mich.: 21 specimens of types of 6 spe-
cies of North American lice (212684).

Mogull, Edward, Bridgeport, Conn.:
8 Lambeth delft ewers and 12 French
porcelain apothecary jars (215079).

Monaco, Principality of: (Through
Henry Gamerdinger) 20 mint stamps,
1 first-day cover (215066).

Monnig, Oscar E. (See Hinrichs,
Mrs. Carl C.)

Menree, Dr. Eugene G.
ada, Government of)

Meoojen, Joad. (See Museu Nacional

Moore, Prof. Dwight M. (See Arkan-
sas, University of)

Moore, Dr. H. E., Jr.
University )

Moore, Mrs. Samuel, Lansdowne, Pa.:
Plattner blowpipe with attachments
(212973).

Moore, Dr. Thomas E., Urbana, IIl.:
5 bugs from Indonesia (214987). (See
also Illinois Natural History Survey)

Moore, Prof. Walter G. (See Loyola
University )

Moran, Connie, Bradford,
Mariner’s compass, 1837 (2113803).

Morath, Roland H., Los Angeles,
Calif.: (Through D. F. Hewett) speci-
men of uraninite and gummite from
Morath mine, Twenty Nine Palms, Riv-
erside County, Calif. (213290).

Morgan, Mrs. Elonzo T., Fairmont,
W. Va.: Large stoneware cake pan pre-
sented in memory of Mrs. Edward
Ames Grose (213542).

Morris, Mrs. George Maurice, Wash-
ington, D. C.: 21 19th-century Minton
cerainic tiles, 2 panels of embroidered

(See Can-

(See Cornell

Pa.:
116

crewelwork (211811); wooden tray,
18th-century brass candlestick, brass
samovar (214233).

Morris, James L., Boise, Idaho: 5
tourmaline crystals from Valley County,
Idaho, 1 stilbite and 1 muscovite from
Shaw Mountain, Boise, Idaho (211718).

Morrison, Dr. Joseph P. E., Washing-
ton, D. C.: 12 cartridges in original
packing box (214040); 5 dragonflies
from Virginia (214780).

Morrison, Dr. Joseph P. E., and de la
Torre, Dr. Alfredo, Washington, D. C.:
8 bats from Frederick County, Virginia
(214911).

Moscow State University, Moscow,
U.S. S. R.: Cast of skull and lower jaw
of Mousterian child, from Staroselje,
Crimea (212814, exchange).

Mothersill, Mrs. Philip W., Alexan-
dria, Va.: Mahogany veneer American
sleigh bed, originally property of John
Quincy Adams (214394).

Moure, Padre J. S.
University of)

Moyer, Jack T., San Francisco, Calif. :
4 birds from Japan (214757).

Mrose, Miss Mary, Washington, D. C.:
3 vayrynenites, 2 lepidolites, 1 musco-
vite, 3 triplites, and 2 amblygonites
from Hrajarvi, Finland (211325) ; talc-
triplite from Horrsjoberg, Wermland,
Sweden, metastrengite from Chate-
loube, Haute Vienne, France (213051).
(See also Amor, Dr. I. Asensio, and
Pauly, Hans)

Muenzen, Carl C., New York, N. Y.:
Spanish-American field cup (213992).

Mulliken, Miss Jean Hayden, Wash-
ington, D. C.: Honeycomb cotton coun-
terpane (210875).

Mundy, Dr. James H., Ellensburg,
Wash.: Plaster mold of perfect set of
upper and lower dentures (213270).

Munoz, Ing. Fernando de Zayas.
(See Ministerio de Agricultura)

Munroe, Mrs. Russell, Silver Spring,
Md.: Edison telephone transmitter and
receiver, detonator line tester, Thom-
son voltmeter, milliammeter, precision
balance, diffraction grating, plotmeter,
microscope, refrigerator, counter, clock,

(See Parana,

U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1957

4 Edison lamps,
bulbs (212171).
Murayama, Dr. Jozo J., Shomonoseki
City, Japan: 204 beetles from Japan,
Korea, and Manchuria (218059, ex-
change).
Murch, Comdr. R. W., USNR, Kirk-

filament for lamp

wood, Mo.: Cacheted envelope with
“Operation Deepfreeze” cancel
(215023).

Murphy, George D., Norbeck, Md.:
Magnetic sound recorder, Record-o-
phone (2113801).

Musée Royal d’Histoire Naturelle,
Brussels, Belgium: (Through Dr. A.
Collart) 87 specimens of 23 species of
European and African flies (212677,
exchange).

Museo de Historia Natural “Javier
Prado,” Lima, Peru: 51 grasses, 12
phanerogams from Peru: (211092,
211134, 211595) ; 51 grasses from Peru;
collected by Emma Cerrate (218096).

Museo de Historia Natural La Salle,
Caracas, Venezuela: (Through Dr.
Cesar Alemén G.) 2 frogs from Vene-
zuela (212104).

Museu Nacional, Rio de Janeiro,
Brazil: (Through Joad Moojen) 31
small mammals from Brazil (2138045).

Museum d’ Histoire Naturelle, Ge-
neva, Switzerland: (Through Dr.
Charles Ferriere) 12 ants from United
States, Fiji and British Solomons
(212482, exchange).

Muséum de Sciences Naturelles, Ly-
ons, France: (through Dr. J. Viret)
9 fossil mammals from Hocene and Oli-
gocene of France (211074, exchange).

Museum G. Frey, Entomologisches
Institut, Tutzing, Germany: (Through
Dr. E. Haaf) 147 weevils from Europe
(214225, exchange).

Museum of Natural History of Hous-
ton, Houston, Tex.: Cultivated plant
from Louisiana (2113816) ; 3 plants cul-
tivated in Texas (211702).

Myers, Gary J., Lawrence, Kans.: 34
land shells from Texas and New Mexico
(212767).

Nakahara, Dr. Waro, Tokyo, Japan:
18 Neuroptera from Japan (214487,
exchange).
DONORS TO THE NATIONAL COLLECTIONS

Napier, Maud, Washington, D. C.:
Red velvet hat, ca. 1919, brown lace
hat, ca. 1925 (214251).

Narodni Museum, Prague, Czecho-
slovakia (through Dr. L. Hoberlandt)
15 true bugs from Czechoslovakia and
Turkey (211451, exchange).

National Institute of Agricultural
Sciences, Tokyo, Japan: (Through Dr.
A. Habu) 20 insects from Japan
(214154, exchange).

National Museum, Manila, P. I.: 133
phanerogams, 24 grasses, 5 ferns from
the Philippines (213545, exchange).

National Museum of Victoria, Mel-
bourne, Australia: (Through Dr. Ed-
mund G. Gill and Mrs. Richardson) 15
Tertiary brachiopods and 1 Devonian
brachiopod (211577, exchange).

National Research Council, Washing-
ton, D. C.: (Through Dr. William B.
Jackson) 21 bird skins and 2 skeletons,
11 mammals, 99 reptiles, 472 ectopara-
sites, 7 insects, miscellaneous mollusks
and helminths from the Caroline Is-
lands (213901) ; 1 mammal, 18 reptiles,
65 insects, mollusks, fishes, and inverte-
brates from Ponape and other islands in
the Carolines (214998).

National Science Foundation Fund.
(See Walcott Fund)

National Science Museum, Tokyo,
Japan: 176 phanerogams, 12 grasses,
12 ferns from Japan (211594, ex-
change).

Natturugripasafnid (Museum of Nat-
ural History), Reykjavik, Iceland:
(Through Dr. Finnur Gudmundsson)
white-fronted goose (214834).

Naturhistorisches Museum, Vienna,
Austria: (Through Dr. J. Hiselt) 98
frogs mostly from southern Brazil
(211880) ; (through Dr. Max Fischer)
56 wasps representing 34 species
(218277, exchange)

Naturhistoriska Riksmuseet, Stock-
holm, Sweden: 1,820 phanerogams,
265 grasses, 55 ferns of South America
collected by Dr. E. Asplund (211908,
exchange) ; 1,058 phanerogams from
Hispaniola, collected by BH. L. Ekman
(212528, exchange).

117

Needham, Richard M., Lancaster,
Ohio: First-day cover for 3-cent Labor
Day commemorative (212189) ; 2 first-
day covers with Masonic cachets
(215018). —

Nelson, Gayle H., Whitmore Lake,
Mich.: 95 beetles from the United
States (214086).

Nelson, Dr. Lioyd A., El Paso, Tex.:
4 brachiopods from Upper Sly Gap for-
mation, Rhodes Pass, San Andres Moun-
tain, N. Mex. (212447, exchange).

Nero, Robert W. (See Saskatchewan
Museum of Natural History)

Netherlands, Government of the,
Administration des Postes, Telegraphes
et des Telephones, The Hague: Nether-
lands 85-centime stamp, mint, with por-
trait of Queen Juliana (2115538) ; first-
day cover franked with 5 Netherlands
Olympic Games stamps (2122389); 22
stamps and covers (214048, 215026).

Neuman, Robert B. (See Wade,
Bruce)

Nevada, University of, Reno, Nev.:
(Through R. Keith Miller) 3 grasses
(210432).

Newcomb, Mr. and Mrs. Richard C.,
New London, Conn. : Seth Thomas 8-day
shelf clock with wooden _ works
(218296).

New England, University of, Armi-
Gale, New South Wales: (Through Dr.
Kenneth Campbell) 12 specimens and
6 rubber impressions of Mississippian
and Permian brachiopods from New
South Wales (211333, exchange).

New Hampshire, University of, Dur-
ham, N. H.: 18 phanerogams from
Alaska collected by A. R. Hodgdon
(211586, exchange).

Newman, Mrs. J. B.: 2 black widow
spiders from Montgomery County, Md.
(214636).

New York Botanical Garden, New
York, N. Y¥.: 2 plants of South America
(211445) ; 9 phanerogams from Vene-
zuela (211525); 366 flowering plants
from northeastern South America, 104
from Ecuador (211906, exchange); 1
grass from Ohio (212308) ; 250 phanero-
gams, 2 ferns, from South America
(213094, exchange) ; 181 phanerogams,
118

2 ferns from Peru collected by G. Tess-
man (211152, gift-exchange) ; 29 grasses
from South America collected by John
J. Wurdack and Joseph VY. Monachino
(211369); (through Dr. Bassett Ma-
guire) 13 ferns, 1 phanerogam from
Venezuela (211658).

New York State Museum, Albany,
N. Y.: Iroquois Indian pottery pipe and
cast of Mohawk Indian jar (214464,
exchange) ; (through Dr. Hugo Jamn-
back) 9 flies from New York (214773).

New York Zoological Society, New
York, N. Y.: (Through James W. Atz)
1 fish from Philippine Islands (214518).

New Zealand, Government of:
(Through New Zealand Hmbassy) 2
large kava bowls carved from the hard-
wood “vesi” (213085).

New Zealand Embassy.
Zealand, Government of)

Nichols, Paul R. (See Interior, U. 8.
Department of the)

Nielsen, Dr. E. (See Danish Miner-
alogical Museum)

Nishida, Dr. Makoto, Chiba, Japan:
5 ferns from Japan (2147387).

Nolan, Dr. Thomas B. (See Interior,
U. S. Department of the) \

Norris, Kenneth S., and MecFariand,
William N., Portuguese Bend, Marine-
land, Calif.: Paratype of porpoise from
Baja California (211655).

Norrish, Dr. K. (See Australia, Govy-
ernment of)

North Carelina, University of,
Chapel Hill, N. C.: 11 plants (211849,
exchange) ; Institute of PVisheries Re-
search, Morehead City, N. C.: (Through
Dr. Austin B. Williams) approximately
350 miscellaneous marine invertebrates
from plankton tows, Beaufort, N. C.,
collected by Dr. Austin B. Williams and
EX. Deubler, Jr. (218497).

North Carolina State College, Ra-
leigh, N. C.: (Through Prof. T. B.
Mitchell) 18 bees from United States
(214990, exchange).

North Dakota, State Historical So-
ciety of, Bismarck, N. D.: (Through
Dr. Alan R. Woolworth) bird bones
from archeological excavation at Kipps
Post, N. Dak. (218952).

(See New

U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT,

1957

North Dakota, University of, Grand
Yorks, N. Dak.: (Through Dr. Glenn L.
Hoffman) 10 fresh-water snails from
North Dakota (2093823).

Nerth Dakota Agricultural College,
Fargo, N. Dak.: 61 phanerogams, 4
grasses, 3 ferns, 1 ecryptogam, from
North Dakota (212355, gift-exchange) ;
(Through Dr. R. L. Post) 2 thrips from
North Dakota (214482).

North Electric Company, Galion,
Ohio: (Through R. B. Wiseman) tele-
phone equipment for the telephone ex-
hibit (215005).

Neorthrep, Dr. Stuart A., Albuquerque,
N. Mex.: 12 brachiopods from the Or-
dovician Bliss sandstone, Caballo Moun-
tains, New Mex. (211328).

Norway, Government of: (Through
Torfinn Oftedal) unused Norwegian
postcard and reply card, 3 unused post-
eards and 2 unused stamps (210950,
211223).

Novak, Mrs. Julia Mikota, Algon-
quin, Iil.: Sex visible typewriter No.
4 (218419).

Nylander Museum, Caribou, Maine:
(Through Charles J. Brett, Jr.) 4
brachiopods of the Silurian from Can-
ada, 11 brachiopods of the Devonian
from Maine (212852, exchange).

Oaks, Orville A., Wilmette, Ill.: Wood
specimen of Queule collected near Con-
cepcién, Chile, by Dr. Dillman Bullock
(211578, exchange) ; wood specimens of
tree fern from New Zealand and Phil-
ippines (212332); 29 wood specimens
collected in Okinawa (215070, ex-
change).

OCboler, Arch, Studio City, Calif.:
Celestite crystal from Sterling, Colo.
(212892) ; 2 specimens of chrysocolla
from Bagdad, Ariz., 1 specimen of diop-
tase from Tiger, Ariz. 1 specimen of
Vanadinite from Chihuahua, Mexico
(214235, exchange).

Oertli, Dr. H., Chanbourcy, France:
9 slides and 1 sample of ostracods of
the Mississippian from the Sahara
Desert (212463, exchange).

Oftedal, Torfinn. (See Norway, Gov-
ernment of)
DONORS TO THE NATIONAL COLLECTIONS

Ohio Bell Telephone Company, The,
Cleveland, Ohio (Through Norman C.
Treadon) telephone equipment for tele-
phone exhibit (215004).

Oklahoma, University of, Norman,
Okla.: (Through Dr. George M. Sutton)
6 lark sparrows from Oklahoma
(207809, exchange).

Oklahoma Agricultural and Mechan-
ical College, Stillwater, Okla.: 264
phanerogams, 27 grasses from Mexico
and the United States collected by Prof.
U. T. Waterfall (214380, exchange).

Old, William E., Jr., Norfolk, Va.:
2 marine mollusks from Ourrituck
County, N. C. (211485).

Olin Mathiesen Chemical Corp.,
Winchester-Western Division, New Ha-
ven, Conn.: Johnson semi-automatic
rifle (214042).

Oliver, Smith H., Lake Worth, Fla.:
Tycos Sphygmonanometer, standard
type, in black leather case (212052).

Qisen, Dr. Leland S., Lincoln, Nebr. :
Holotype and allotype of a nematode
worm (210942).

Qman, Dr. Paul W. (See Agricul-
ture, U. S. Department of)

Onsrud Machine Works, Inc., Niles,
Ill.: 2 Onsrud air turbine motors, 1
Onsrud air turbine rotor (214386).

Ordway, Miss Ellen, Portal, Ariz.:
12 beetles from the United States
(212676).

Orton, Edward W., Baton Rouge, La.:
25 brackish-water clams from Louisi-
ana (211503).

Orvig, Dr. Tor. (See Swedish Mu-
seum of Natural History)

Osaka Prefecture, University of,
Sakai, Osaka, Japan: (Through Dr.
Syfiti Issiki) 29 moths from Japan
(214476).

Osborn, Prof. Burr K.
State University)

Osburn, Dr. Raymond C. (deceased) :
18 lots of bryozoa, including 8 type lots
(201008).

Over, Edwin, Woodland Park, Colo.:
2 godolinite in yttrofluorite from the
Teller pegmatite, Lake George district,
Park County, Colo. (211824).

(See Michigan

119

Overman, Mrs. Minne Kyle, Wash-
ington, D. C.: Jacquard coverlet, bird-
in-the-nest design with Old Boston
Town border, woven before 1852
(212529).

Overn, James J., Miami, Fla.: 50
sterling-silver souvenir spoons of vari-
ous sizes, late 19th- and early 20th-
centuries (212110).

Pacific Lumber Co., Chicago, IIL:
(Through John Reno) finished redwood
block eut from a log unearthed in 1954
near Seotia, Calif., and found after
more than twenty centuries buried un-
derground (211903).

Paige, Jason, Jr., Delaplane, Va.:
Paleolithic flint tools from Limburg,
Belgium (214618).

Painter, Fred P., and Painter, H.
Thomas, Woodstock, Va.: Copy of pic-
torial newspaper “Brother Jonathan”’’,

of the period of war with Mexico
(212656).

Painter, H. Thomas. (See Painter,
Hred P.)

Pakistan, Government of, Consulate
General of Pakistan, New York, N. Y.:
4 blocks of 4 mint 2-anna stamps com-
memorating Sth anniversary of Pakis-
tan’s independence (211949).

Palmer, Mrs. Theedore Sherman,
Washington, D. C.: 78,405 stamps, cov-
ers, and postal stationery from foreign
countries (208146).

Palmer, Dr. V.. M., White Plains,
N. Y¥.: dobson fly (211768).

Parana, University of, Curitiba,
Brazil: (Through Padre J. 8. Moure)
84 bees from Brazil (214931, exchange).

Paris, University of, Mineralogical
Laboratory, Paris, France: (Through
Dr. Claude Guillemin) 21 mineral speci-
mens, including phosphuranylite, lav-
endulan, parsonsite, tyrolite, autunite,
wulfenite, chromochre, chalcophanite,
descloizite, renardite, hibonite, angle-
site, kasolite, beta-duftite, zeunerite,
hemimorphite, cesarolite from Tunisia,
Wrance, Iran, French Congo, Madagas-
car (214794, exchange)

Parker, Frances L., La Jolla, Calif. :
4 Foraminifera from the Recent of the
Mediterranean (211724).
120

Parker, Dr. Kittie F., Bethesda, Md.:
17 phanerogams from Western United
States collected by J. M. Tucker
(214084).

Parker, Robert H. (See Scripps In-
stitution of Oceanography)

Parks, Mrs. Claudine, Sacramento,
Calif.: (Through Cora H. Gillis) GAR
uniform hat (214256).

Parnau, John L., Stockton, Calif.,
and Goudey, Hatfield, Reno, Nev.: 5
specimens conichalcite from Arizona
(214965).

Parsons, Harvey F., Arlington, Va.:
Aboriginal lava figure probably from
Nicaragua (211306).

Patino, Dr. V. M., Washington, D. C.:
Sample of diatomaceous earth from Co-
lombia (211887).

Paulian, Dr. Renaud, Tsimbazaza-
Tananarive, Madagascar: 5 African
Zoraptera (212865).

Paulson, Roy A., Itasea, Ill.:
shotgun (210926)

Pauly, Hans, Copenhagen, Denmark
(Through Miss Mary Mrose) specimen
of béggildite from Greenland (214914).

Peabody, Frank E., Los Angeles,
Calif.: 16 specimens of fossil fishes
from various Middle and Upper Miocene
horizons in Los Angeles County, Calif.,
collected by George Brown, 1956
(218844).

Pechuman, Dr. L. L., Lockport, N. Y.:
3 horseflies from India, 18 horseflies
from worldwide (214841, 214842, ex-
change)

Peck, Mrs. E. Milnor, Pleasantville,
N. Y.: 6 first-day covers, 3-cent “Prong-
horn Antelope” (211552, 212201,
213552) ; first-day cover “Wheatland”
commemorative (213307).

Pecora, Dr. W. T., Arlington, Va.:
Roentgenite and bastnaesite from Big
Sandy Creek, Bearpaw Mountains,
Mont. (212056).

Pecos Minerals, Roswell, N. Mex.:
(Through E. Donald Kaye) 6 murdo-
chite specimens from New Mexico
(212039, exchange).

Peerless Handcuff Co., Springfield,
Mass.: (Through Clyde Gill) pair gold-

Parker

U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1957-

plated handcuffs, pair steel-finish hand-
cuffs, pair bronze thumbeuffs (212907).

Pelikan, Dr. J.. Brno, Czechoslovakia :
28 slides of thrips from Czechoslovakia
(214637, exchange).

Pence, Dr. R. J., Los Angeles, Calif. :
Ant from California (214991).

Penney, Dr. J. T. (See South Caro-
lina, University of)

Pennsylvania Game Commission,
Harrisburg, Pa.: (Through Mr. Roger
Latham) black bear from Pennsylvania
(214997).

Pennsylvania Power and Light Co.,
Hazleton, Pa.: (Through J. V. Ferdi-
nand) Becker long-beam balance
(212906).

Pereira, Father Francisco Silverio,
SHo Paulo, Brazil: 11 beetles, including
10 species, 4 paratypes, from South
America (212683).

Perrygo, Watson M., Washington,
D. C.: Mounted house wren (211448,
exchange) ; 12 land snails from North-
ampton County, Va. (212186).

Person and Covey, Glendale, Calif. :
Bottle of 100 2-mg. tablets of ‘““Hyper-
loid,’” a brand of Rauwolfia Serpentina
(212051).

Petersen, Cornelius.
Department)

Peterson, Mr. and Mrs. George W. E.,
San Marcos, Calif.: World War I bun-
ting banner (214409).

Peterson, Mendel L., Washington,
D. C.: Jamaican post card, U. 8. Cus-
toms Service inspected baggage stamp
(211551) ; Great Britain overseas reg-
istered envelope (211735) ; 3 philatelic
specimens (213457) ; 4 covers commem-
orating “Operation Deepfreeze,” 1956-7
(215064).

Petrides, Dr. George A., Uganda,
Hast Africa: 2 butterflies from Uganda,
East Africa (212672).

Phelps, Chester F., Richmond, Va.:
Adult male black bear from Virginia
(211297).

Phelps, Dr. William H., Caracas,
Venezuela: 10 Venezuelan birds, in-
cluding types of 8 species (203001,
deposit).

(See Post Office
DONORS TO THE NATIONAL COLLECTIONS

Philip, Dr. C. B. (See Health, Edu-
cation, and Welfare, Department of)

Philippines, Republic of the, Manila:
(Through Hilario C. Antontio) 6 fishes
from the Philippines (210800).

Philippines, University of the, Quezon
City, Philippine Islands: (Through Dr.
José Vera Santos) 101 phanerogams
from the Philippines (214467)

Pilsbry, Dr. Henry A. (See Academy
of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia)

Pittsburgh, University of. (See De-
fense, U. S. Department of, Armed
Forces Epidemiological Board)

Platnik, Harry, Washington, D. C.:
Male black widow spider (212869).

Poland, Government of, Warsaw:
(Through ARS Polona Foreign Trade
Enterprise) 55 Polish stamps and coy-
ers (214908); (through Prasa _ I.
Ksiazka) 25 Polish stamps and first-day
covers (211342, 212237).

Polish Academy of Sciences, Warsaw,
Poland: (Through Dr. Ryszard Bie-
lawski) 4 beetles from Poland (209611,
exchange).

Poilak, Mrs. Virginia Morris, New

York, N. ¥.: Blown-glass nursing bot-
tle (214853). (See also Alva Studios,
Ine.)

Polytechnic Institute of Puerto Rico,
San German, Puerto Rico: Phanero-
gam (211061).

Ponton, Mrs. Maude S., Delaware,

Ohio: Collapsible silk opera hat, ea.
1900, political campaign medal
(212879).

Pepe, John A., Washington, D. C.:
Rigby double-barrel rifle and acces-
sories in carrying case, presented to
Gustavis Pope by Kermit Roosevelt in
1922 (211339).

Popkin, David B.
Stamp Club)

Post, Dr. R. L. (See North Dakota
Agricultural College)

Post, Mrs. Marjorie Merriweather,
Washington, D.C.: Cigar store wooden
Indian (211180).

Post Office Department, Washington,
D. C.: 168 specimems of foreign post-
eards and other stamped paper
(210816) ; (through H. S. Chamberlin)

(See Englewood

121

57 U. S. mint stamps (210958, 212825) ;
(through Greever Allan) 254 foreign
stamps, described in Universal Postal
Bulletin 10-I1V, 1956 (211031) ; 400 spec-
imens of stamps and postal stationery
from foreign countries (212417) ; 1,307
foreign stamps of the Universal Postal
Union (6 bulletins) (214693) ; (through
Cornelius Petersen) 207 foreign postal
stamps (211923) ; (through Everett E.
Skeats) 1 “Tin Can Mail” letter con-
tainer, directed to Post Office, Honolulu
(212455) ; 1 gold coin scale, 1 coin scale
by Fairbanks & Co. (214038) (through
Thomas F. Proctor) leather mail bag
(214049).

Potter, Jessie L.
Nannie)

Prasa I. Ksiazka.
ernment of)

Pratt, Theodore, Jr., Fairfax, Va.:
Ptolemaic bronze coin, third century,
B. C. (214858).

Pressey, Miss Julia C., Washington,
D. C.: Victorian quilt (211580).

Price, Mrs. Maybelle K., Annapolis,
Md.:  Pennsylvania-German painted
bonnet box, Pennsylvania-German re-
versible linen and wool coverlet, 3 ma-
tron’s caps, white satin brocade vest
(211606).

Priori, Huga José, Recife-Pernam-
buco, Brazil: 387 mint Brazilian post-
age stamps (212253).

Privitera, Dr. Carmelo S.
Thomas, College of)

Proctor, Thomas F.
Department)

Proprietors of the Locks and Canals
on Merrimack River, Lowell, Mass.:
(Through Louis D. Waldron) 26 his-
torical relics, water turbines, models,
runners, hydraulic instruments, and
theodolites of Uriah A. Boyden, James
B. Francis, Swain and others (211155).

Purdue University, Lafayette, Ind.:
70 phanerogams, 18 grasses, 3 ferns, 1
eryptogam from Alaska (212535).

Quattlebaum Fund, W. Daniel, Smith-
sonian Institution: 15 specimens of
American glass (210801, 214359);
American glass tumbler (214742).

(See Raub, Miss

(See Poland, Gov-

(See St.

(See Post Office
122

Queen Mary College, London, Eng-
land: (Through J. G. Lewis) ; 5 centi-
pedes from England (214774).

Queensland, University ef, Depart-
ment of Zoology, Brisbane, Queensland,
Australia; (Through Prof. W. Stephen-
son) 17 lots of marine invertebrates
from Barrier Reef (212473).

Quinby, Elsie Howland, Washington,
D. C.: Collection of miscellaneous fur-
niture and accessories, including items
of glassware, embroidered pictures,
prints, engravings, and musical instru-
ments (214358).

Racine Hydraulics and Machinery,
Ine., Racine, Wis.: Automatic power
hacksaw, ca. 1906 (214266).

Ramdohr, Prof. Paul. (See Minera-
logisch-Petrographisches Institut der
Universitit)

Ramovs, Dr. Anten. (See Geolosko-
paleontolo&ski Institut, Univerza)

Rand, Dr. A. L. (See Chicago Natu-
ral History Museum)

Randall, Dr. John H., Papeete, Tahiti:
35 fishes from ‘Tahiti, 2 Isopods
(212108).

Ransom, Arthur K., Freehold, N. J.:
Radio receiver (214288).

Rasetti, Dr. Franco, Baltimore, Md.:
270 invertebrate fossils from British
Columbia (214837).

Raub, Miss Nannie (deceased):
(Through Jessie L. Potter) hickory
sword cane inscribed “Major L. Raub”
(218827).

Ray, Louis L. (See Interior, U. 8.
Department of the)

Read, Oliver, New York, N. Y.:
Graphophone, coin-operated (212922,
exchange).

Rechnitzer, Dr. Andreas B., San

Diego, Calif.: Deep-sea fish, holotype,
from Eastern Pacifie (213597).

Reed, Dr. Clyde F., Baltimore, Md.:
sea turtles from Northumberland
County, Md. (211496).

Reeves, Ben, Chicago, Ill.: 10 Japa-
nese stamps mounted in “The Aiimen’s
Journal,” posteard franked with 2-
dollar pictorial (212453).

Regnéll, Dr. Gerhard.
University of)

9

~_

(See Lund,

U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1957

Reilly, Coil. John R., Winnetka, Ill:
Light artillery sword and scabbard,
pen-and-ink map (213626).

Reinhard, Prof. H. J., College Station,
Tex.: 9 flies from United States, in-
eluding types (215049, exchange).
(See also Dreisbach, R. R.)

Reish, Dr. Ronald J., Los Angeles,
Calif.: 16 holothurians, anemones col-
lected.at Bikini Atoll, 1956 (213498).

Reitz, Rev. Pe. Raulino (See Her-
bario “Barbosa Rodrigues’)

Reno, John (See Pacific Lumber Co.)

Reyment, Dr. Richard A. (See Stock-
holm, University of)

Ricci, Alfeo, Provincia di Livorno,
Italy: 16 crystals of pyrite from Rio
Marina mine, Provincia di Livorno, Is-
land of Elba, Italy (212995).

Riee, Prof. Nolan E., Richmond, Va.:
Devonian glass sponge from Elkins, W.
Way (AbleRY/)).

Rice, Mrs. R. R., Rockport, Tex.: 21
marine mollusks from Rockport, Tex.
(203825).

Rich, Mrs. W. R., Washington, D. C.:
Children’s and baby clothes worn by
three generations of Clark family,
Utica, N. Y., 19th century (211782).

Richards, Charlies S. (See Health,
Education, and Welfare, Department
of)

Richards, Elizabeth EH.
Mrs. Samuel Arthur)
Richardsen, Mrs.

seum of Victoria)

Riggs, Lowry, Rockville, Md.:
citron-breasted toucans (214343).

Riherd, Dr. Paul T., Mercedes, Tex.:
4 moths (212863).

Rijksherbarium, Leiden, Nether-
lands: 301 phanerogams, 20 grasses,
32 ferns collected in Kenya, Africa, by
R. A. Maas Geesteranus (211151, ex-
change) ; 34 phanerogams, 2 grasses, 4
ferns from Malay Archipelago (212691,
exchange).

Rijksmuseum van Natuurlijke His-
torie, Leiden, Netherlands: (Through
Dr. A. Diakonoff) 2 moths from Java
(212140, exchange).

Ring, Bernard, Brooklyn, N. Y.: 3
cachetted envelopes for American First-

(See Devan,
(See National Mu-

2
DONORS TO THE NATIONAL COLLECTIONS

123

Day Cover Society convention, 1956 (209977) ; 3 uraninites from Keystone,

(213308).

Rixse, Miss Cornelia Ann.
Rixse, Steven Hric)

Rixse, Spencer B. (See Rixse, Steven
Eric)

Rixse, Steven Eric, and Rixse, Miss
Cornelia Ann, Arlington, Va. (Through
Spencer B. Rixse) typewriter, Harris
No. 4, ca. 1914 (211302).

Robas, John S., Fernandina Beach,
Fla.: 4 fishes from Yucat&én coast of
Mexico (218993).

Reberts, Mrs. Alfred, Baltimore, Md.:
Mantel, andirons, and 3 sets of curtains
and portiers from the home of Mrs.
James B. Dickson, New York City
(211845) ; Louis XV overmantel with
matching decoration, 2 etchings “La
Bella” by Titian, and “Marie Louise”
after Van Dyke, red wool chenille rug
(213077) ; rockers, portier, Irish point
lace, bobbinet curtains, Cluny and Point
de Venice lace, and antique oriental rug
(2140389).

Roberts, W. L., Rapid City, S. Dak.:
Hinsdalite with enargite from Butte,
Mont. (213985, exchange).

Robertson, Robert, Philadelphia, Pa. :
Approximately 35 fresh-water mollusks,
topotypes, from California (210944).

Robins, Dr. C. Richard. (See Miami,
University of)

Robinson, George, Falls Church, Va.:
2 fishes from Virginia (214222).

Rebinson, Mrs. Reuel V., San Fran-
cisco, Calif.: Bridal jacket, tailored and
embroidered, from Miao people, Sanho,
Kweichow Province, China, collected
by donor’s husband, Cmdr. R. V. Rob-
inson, 1944 (218824).

Robyns, Dr. W. (See Jardin Botan-
ique de l’Etat)

Roebling Fund, Smithsonian Insti-
tution: 1 specimen each of dumontite
crystals, massive dewindtite, dewind-
tite-torbernite in rock, massive soddy-
ite and massive curite, soddyite crys-
tals, kasolite crystals and dewindtite
erystals, massive soddyite and soddy-
ite erystals, from Shinkolobwe, Belgian
Congo, 1 pure massive vandenbrandeite
from Kalongwe, Belgian Congo

437255—57—_9

(See

S. Dak. (210584) ; 1 specimen of reo-
merite and 1 specimen of copiapite
erystals from Utah, 1 absite from South
Australia, 1 stillwellite from Queens-
land, 1 specimen of zeunerite crystals
from Australia, 1 tocornalite from
Broken Hill, Australia (211570); 1
hawleyite from Canada, 1 hydrobora-
cite from Turkey, 3 isokites from North-
ern Rhodesia, 1 vayrynenite from Fin-
land (211571); 2 ludlamites from
Blackbird mine, Cobalt, Idaho
(211710) ; 1 chabazite with thompson-
ite, 1 thompsonite with stilbite, 1 chaba-
zite var. phacolite, from Goble, Oreg.,
1 epistilbite from Summit, N. J., 1
heulandite, 1 stilbite from Paterson,
N. J., 1 hedenbergite, 1 ilvaite from
South Mountain, Idaho, 1 epidote from
Poison Creek, Calif., 3 fluorites from
Findlay, Ohio (211711); 1 aurostibite
from Czechoslovakia, 1 meyerhofferite
from Turkey (211712); 1 lavendulan
from Tunisia (211890) ; 1 stillwellite
from Mount Isa, Australia, 2 specimens
of wardite in erystals from Carinthia
(212663) ; 1 specimen of sengierite on
and in chalecocite from Bisbee, Ariz.
(212665) ; 1 hambergite from Little
Three mine, Ramona, San Diego County,
Calif., assortment of 37 crystals of
tourmaline from Esmeralda mine, Mesa
Grande, San Diego County, Calif.
(212776) ; 1 specimen of chalcopyrite,
sphalerite, ete. from Ground Hog mine,
Vanadium, N. Mex. (212890) ; 1 plati-
num nugget (212893) ; 2 specimens of
laueite, paralaueite and strunzite from
Hagendorf, MSBavaria, Germany
(213287) 1 kettnerite from North West
Bohemia, Czechoslovakia (213289) 12
mineral specimens from various locali-
ties (218618) ; 1 platinum-iridium nug-
get, 3 platinum-iridium grains, from
British Columbia (213619) ; 1 specimen
of schoepite, soddyite, and curite ecrys-
tals on massive soddyite-curite ; 1 speci-
men of uraninite with crust of soddyite,
schoepite and curite, from Shinkolobwe,
Belgian Congo (214017) ; 25 radioactive
specimens from Wiseman mine, Spruce
Pine, N. C. (214456) ; 1 stannite from
124

Tasmania, 1 chalcophanite from Mex-
ico (214839) ; 1 specimen of botryoidal
pitchblende from Colorado (214968)

Roehrs Co., Julius, Rutherford, N. J.:
(Through A. B. Graf) 3 cultivated
ferns, 1 cultivated plant (211131,
213729, 214472).

Roger, Dr. J., Paris, France: 2 rare
brachiopods of the Devonian, from
Morocco (2138124, exchange).

Ronan, Mrs. Mary E., Antigonish,
Nova Scotia, Canada: Photograph of
a delegation of 6 Bitter Root Flathead
Indians (Nez Percés) with U. S. Indian
Agent Peter Ronan, Washington, Jan.
1884 (211684).

Rood, Almon N., Phalanx, Ohio: 95
phanerogams from California collected
by C. V. Morton, 1926-27 (214465).

Roosevelt, Mrs. Archibald, New York,
N. Y.: Carved ivory handle parasol and
a carved ivory and lace fan owned by
Mrs. Theodore Roosevelt (210968).

Roosevelt, Mrs. Kermit, New York,
N. Y.: Don Quixote tapestry, 18th cen-
tury (212896).

Root, Mr. and Mrs. Albert J., Stough-
ton, Wis.: Razor with hand-made horn
handle, crocheted shawl, made by an-
cestors of Mrs. Root (218661).

Resenkrantz, Dr. Alfred.
penhagen, University of)

Ross, Mrs. Helen M., Millburn, N. J.:
25 first-day covers (211742, 213090,
215027).

Rosso, Samuel W., Hattiesburg, Miss. :
Approximately 2,900 specimens of ma-
rine, fresh-water, and land mollusks,
22 corals, 280 marine invertebrates, in-
sects, reptiles, fishes and algae, from
Australia, collected by donor (209177) ;
(Through Dr. David Causey) 15 speci-
mens of copepods, also trematodes
(211047).

Roth, Dr. Vincent D. (See Agricul-
ture, U. S. Department of)

Rothblum, Morris C., Camden, N. J.:
Brochure and program of ceremonies
for first-day sale of 3-cent Labor Day
stamp (212192).

Rountrey, W. F., Norfolk, Va.: 1 Say’s
phoebe from Virigina (213595).

(See Co-

U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1957

Rousch, Lt. Col. Ulric C., Athens,
Ohio: Pair of officer’s riding breeches
and pair of field boots with spurs, boot-
jacks, straps and chain (213828).

Rowley, Elmer B., Glens Falls, N. Y.:
Hpidote from Glens Falls, N. Y.:
(213369).

Royal Botanic Garden, Kew, Surrey,
England: 90 phanerogams, 168 ferns,
1 cryptogam, mostly from Africa
(212306, 214379, exchange) ; 229 phan-
erograms from Malaysia (213603, ex-
change) ; 32 miscellaneous phanerogams
(214468, exchange).

Royal Botanic Garden, Edinburgh,
Scotland: 228 phanerogams, 4 grasses,
from Asia Minor and Greece, collected
by E. K. Balls (214244, exchange).

Rozen, J. G., Washington, D. C.: 3
centipedes and 8 millipedes from Prince
George’s County, Md. (214971).

Rude, Captain Gilbert T., USCGS
(ret.), Washington, D. C.: Original
form of Rude Star Finder invented in
1921 by donor (214892).

Ruebush, Comdr. Trenton K. (See
Defense, U. S. Department of, Depart-
ment of the Navy)

Rumbel, O. K., Mission, Tex.: 20 air-
mail stamps (211547) (See also Ameri-
can Legion)

Rumpp, Norman L., China Lake,
Calif.: 30 American tiger beetles, in-
cluding 4 paratypes (214019).

Rush, Mr. and Mrs. Alfred A., Delray
Beach, Fla.: Red bandanna political
campaign handkerchief, 1912, with de-
sign of Progressive Party candidate
Theodore Roosevelt (211347).

Russell, Dr. L. S., Ottawa, Canada:
8 mollusks, holotypes, from Wyoming
(213612).

Russell, Robert, Hydro, Okla.: Bottle
“Godfrey’s Cordial” (215012).

Rutgers University, New Brunswick,
N. J.: 42 algae and mosses from Onotoa,
Gilbert Islands, collected by Prof. Ed-
win T. Moul (211911).

Ryan, Edward Parsons (See Hawaii,
University of)

Ryukyu Islands, Government of the,
Department of Public Services, Naha,
DONORS TO THE NATIONAL COLLECTIONS

Okinawa: (Through Yoshio Asato) 4
posteards, 4 stamps, and envelope
franked with “dancer” and “bridge”
stamps (213690).

Ryukyus, University of the, Okinawa,
Ryukyu Islands: 12 phanerogams, 5
grasses from Ryukyu Islands (218758).

Sabrosky, Dr. Curtis W., Washington,
D. C.: Marine mollusk with encrusting
mollusks from Martha’s Vineyard,
Mass. (212185).

Safarid, R. R., Jackson Heights, N. Y.:
126 specimens U. S. World War I phila-
telie material (214896).

Said, Dr. Rushdi, Meadi, Egypt: Ap-
proximately 400 type specimens of Fo-
raminifera from the Jurassic and Cre-
taceous of Egypt (211726).

Sailer, Dr. Reece I. (See Meurer,
J. J.)

St. Thomas, College of, St. Paul,
Minn.: (Through Dr. Carmelo S§S. Privi-
tera) 7 centipedes (215050).

Saitama University, Urawa, Japan:
(Through Dr. Riuji Endo) 894 speci-
mens of invertebrate fossils from the
Carboniferous, Permian, Tertiary, and
Quaternary of Japan (211670, ex-
change).

Salter, William E., Washington, D. C.:
75 marine mollusks from Plum Point,
Md. (211293).

Sanders, Howard L., Woods Hole,
Mass.: 2 specimens of cephalocaridan
crustaceans collected from Buzzard’s
Bay, Mass., 1955 (211048).

Santa Rosa Junior College, Santa
Rosa, Calif.: 81 plants from western
United States, collected by Dr. Milo §.
Baker (213762).

Santos, Dr. José Vera. (See Philip-
pines, University of the)

Sarycheva, Prof. Dr. T. (See Acad-
emy of Sciences of U. 8S. S. R.)

Saskatchewan Museum of Natural
History, Regina, Saskatchewan, Can-
ada: (Through Robert W. Nero) 5
lizards, 12 insects from Cairo, Egypt
(213864).

Sater, Edna N. (See Interior, U. S.
Department of the)

Satterlee, Mrs. Nicholas, Washing-
ton, D. C.: Late 18th-century patch-

125

work quilt, with English commemora-
tive Toile (211584).

Saunders, Dr. L. G.: Saskatoon, Can-
ada:122 flies (214936).

Saunders, Mrs. T. Laurance, Cincin-
nati, Ohio: Fossil walrus skull from
Parramore Island, Va., collected by
Virginia Ornithological Society on
property of donor (212662).

Sayre, Honorable Francis B., Wash-
ington, D. C.: Fragment of anorthoclase
feldspar from summit of Erebus in
Antarctica, from effects of Capt. Scott,
leader of British expedition to South
Pole, 1911, and presented to donor and
Mrs. Sayre by Lady Scott (214453).

Scarlett, Ron. J., Christchurch, New
Zealand: 3 bird skeletons (213439).

Scattergood, George M., Lancaster,
Pa.: “The Glass-blower’s List of Prices
of Druggist’s Ware for the Year 1848/
49.” (214438).

Schell, Dr. Stewart C. (See Idaho,
University of)

Scherbacher, Mareus W.
rean Chindan Society)

Schmidt, Mr. and Mrs. David, Sa-
rona, Wis.: 83 brackish-water and
marine clams from the Gulf Coast of
Florida (209344) ; 17 sand cases of flies
from Florida (214870).

Schmitt, Dr. Waldo L., Washington,
D. C.: Chinchilla found in Takoma
Park, Md. (214910). (See also Finlay,
John)

Schnautz, Dr. John O., Tegucigalpa,
Honduras: 20 fresh-water snails from
Honduras (214108).

Schneider, Rudolf, Washington, D. C.:
Adding machine, Webb “adder”
(211156).

Schneirla, Dr. T. C., New York, N. Y¥.:
20 ants from South America (212470).
(See also American Museum of Natural
History)

Schoechle, George L.
van, Prof.)

Scholl, Robert H.
ard Oil Co.)

Schroeder, William C., Cambridge,
Mass.: 1 lobster (214833). (See also
Harvard University)

(See Ko-

(See Mahade-

(See Esso Stand-
126

Schubert, Dale, Washington, D. C.:
Table model radio receiver (214609).

Schulman, Dr. Emanuel, and Arpad,
Michael, Alexandria, Va.: Gothic style
chandelier (214035).

Schultz, Dr. Leonard P.
Thomas R.)

Schwaab, Mrs. Robert S., Lexington,
Mass.: 18 specimens of Dutch, Span-
ish, and Chinese ceramics (213275).
(See also Miller, Gerrit S., Jr.)

Schwartz, Dr. Frank J. (See West
Virginia University)

Scott, Frederick R., Richmond, Va.:
8 birds from Virginia (214756).

Sectt, Dr. Harold W. (See Illinois,
University of)

Scott, Mrs. Thomas M., Roanoke, Va.:
Powder horns, pruning knife, pistol,
and cane, owned by donor’s late grand-
father (214887).

Scripps Institution of Oceanography,
La Jolla, Calif.: (Through Dr. Martin
W. Johnson) approximately 168 amphi-
pods from the 1951 cruise of the USS
Burton Island (205959); (through
Conrad Limbaugh) 10 specimens of gor-
gonians (208678) ; (through Robert H.
Parker) 2 hydroids, 8 gorgonians, 1
bryozoan (212090); (through Leo D.
Berner) 8 type specimens of tunicates,
including 3 syntypes, holotype, 4 para-
types (212886); (through Leo D.
Berner and Takashi Tokioka) approxi-
mately 39 specimens of tunicates from
Shellback Expedition, Equatorial Pa-
cific (218325).

Scudder, G. G. E., Oxford, England:
4 true bugs of 3 species including a
paratype from India (215051, ex-
change).

Sea Fisheries Research Station,
Haifa, Israel: (Through Dr. Adam Ben-
Tuvia) 79 fishes, mullets, and goatfishes
from Mediterranean coast (211624, ex-
change).

Seaman, G. A., Christiansted, St.
Croix, V. I.: 19 anostracans, 150 amphi-
pods, 1 worm snake, 5 lizards, about 11
millepedes (211951).

Seeliger, Dr. F. (See Mineralogi-
sches Institut der Universitit Heidel-
berg)

(See Hall,

U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1957

Semple, Mrs. Caroline I., Washington,
D. C.: 8 items of crochet work, needle-
point, and bobbin-made laces, long in
possession of donor’s family (211598).

Setzer, Dr. Henry W., Washington,
D. C. and Miller, Dr. Norman M., Ta-
koma Park, Md.: 8 small mammals
from Maryland (214995).

Severance Tool Industries, Inc., Sagi-
naw, Mich.: 4 rotary files in various
stages of conversion to Midget Mill
tools, 4 Severance Midget Mill files

(212905).

Shalkop, Dr. R. L. (See Everhart
Museum)

Sharp, Frances, Warsaw, Ind.:

(Through Cora BH. Gillis) GAR gold
badge which was presented to donor’s
father in 1945 (214257).

Shaw, Dr. Frank, Amherst, Mass.:
6 slides of flies from Mount Desert,
Maine (213069).

Shewell, G. E.
ernment of)

Shiraki, Dr. Tokuichi, Tokyo, Japan:
157 fruit flies from the Ryukyu Islands,
Japan (211705).

Shoemaker, Ernest, Brooklyn, N. Y.:
49,688 beetles, 9,775 butterflies and
moths from North and South America
(214863).

Shriner, Dr. John F., Mobile, Ala.:
Douglass stethoscope chest piece, in-
scribed “Haslam” (213042).

Simmons, Ernest G. (See Game and
Kish Commission)

Simmons, Frank E., Oglesby, Tex.:
150 land snails from Texas (213664).

Simmons, Dr. S. W. (See Health,
Hdueation, and Welfare, Department
of)

Simon, Dr. J. E. (See Estacion Ex-
perimental Agricola de La Molina)

Sims, Mrs. W. Jeffrey, Takoma Park,
Md.: Child’s dress, ea. 1880, worn by
Mrs. Sarah Bradford Peterson, Water-
town, N. Y. (2113844).

Sinkankas, Capt. John, Coronado,
Calif.: Morganite crystal from Tour-
maline Queen mine, Pala, San Diego
County, Calif., orange-colored beryl
from Minas Gerais, Brazil (211507, ex-
change) ; monazite with tourmaline and

(See Canada, Goy-
DONORS TO THE NATIONAL COLLECTIONS

albite from Spaulding mine, Little
Three Claim, Ramona, Calif. (212057) ;
eut tourmaline from Tourmaline Queen
mine, Pala, specimen of muscovite,
quartz, and microcline from Esmeralda
mine, San Diego County, Calif. (213232,
exchange).

Skeats, Everett E.
Department)

Smedley, Willard H., West Chester,
Pa.: Set of false teeth carved from
ivory and attached by coiled spring

(See Post Office

(213048).

Smit, F.G. A.M. (See Great Britain,
Government of, and Zoological Mu-
seum)

Smith, Mrs. Ethel, Port Arthur, Tex.:
Approximately 600 specimens of land,
fresh-water, and marine shells from
Texas (212612, exchange).

Smith, Godfrey L., Hampton, Va.:
Fiarbone of a Phocaenid porpoise from
Yorktown formation in Virginia
(213628).

Smith, Dr. Hobart M.
University of)

Smith, Prof. Laurence L.
Carolina, University of)

Smith, Merlin, Matamoros, México:
1 violin, 2 bows, 1 case (214741).

Smith, Sarah A. G., Philadelphia, Pa.:
1 Daniel B. Smith letterbook (1840-
1849) presented through the courtesy
of the children of Edward Wanton
Smith (213469).

Smithers, C. N., Causeway, Southern
Rhodesia: 1 South African psocid
(214771).

Smithsonian Institution, Washington,
D. C.: (See also following funds: Ab-
bott, Bredin, Canfield, Chamberlain,
Hillyer, Quattlebaum, Roebling, Wal-
cott.) Samson No. 2 wet cell (212169,
deposit); Hammond type vari-typer,
with justifying mechanism (212172) ;
charcoal burning sad iron (214740, de-
posit) ; 6 envelopes from Great Britain,
Romania, Russia, Sao Paulo, and Pearl
Harbor, T. H., and 1 U. 8S. Cover show-
ing certified mail franking (215020, de-
posit). Found in Collections: 3 speci-
mens of the Smithonia meteorite, from
Oglethorpe County, Ga. (161778) ; spec-

(See Illinois,

(See South

127

imen of meteorite from Altonah, Utah
(122698) ; specimen of meteorite from
Cherokee Springs, 8. C. (1253381); 1
Crookes double radiometer, 1 circular
mirror on stand (211300) ; Blunt tele-
scope, ca. 1830 (211899); meteorite
from lance, Loire-et-Cher, France
(212667) ; 30 specimens of meteorites
from various localities (212671) ; speci-
men of meteorite, 156 grams, shavings,
17144 grams, from Chico Mountain,
Brewster County, Tex. (212813); 3
General Hlectric lamps, 1 Edison lamp
replica, 1879 (212908) ; meteorite from
Signal Mountain, Lower California,
Mexico (218286) ; Columbia telephone,
with transmitter and receiver (213298) ;
4 specimens of meteorites from Adrian,
Tex. (214347) ; 2 specimens of meteorite
from Channing, Tex. (214851); knife
made from meteorite from Casas
Grandes de Malintzin, Chihuahua, Méx-
ico (214352) ; 21 individuals of meteor-
ites of Mocs, Cluj, and Transylvania
(214462); (through William Sontag)
early grinding-wheel mount, ca. 1885
(214385). Made in Laboratories: 278
photos of plants (214848); model of
Columbian steam engine, model of Watt
steam engine in Philadelphia water-
works (212874); model of Hussey
reaper, 1833 (212910) ; 1 model Savery
steam engine, 3 models gas engines, 1
model water turbine, 2 models steam
engines (214268); replica of original
model ‘Lister Carbolic Acid Steam
Spray,” which is in the Wellcome His-
torical Medical Museum, London, Eng-
land (215011). Astrophysical Observa-
tory: Miscellaneous physical instru-
ments for electrical measurement, pho-
tometry, meteorology and astrophysics
(211531) ; governor, variable speed, in-
vented by Dr. Charles G. Abbot, Patent
No. 2367254 (211900) ; Henry Troemner
analytical balance, ca. 1890 (212170) ;
mercury barometer marked “Henry J.
Green, New York” (212900); Doberi-
ner’s hydropneumatic igniter, gas meter,
Crookes radiometer, Dines portable No.
84 anemometer, acoustic apparatus,
polarized light demonstration appara-
tus, Soleil saccharimeter, J. Dubosceq
128

saccharimeter, Bunsen photometer,
acoustic instrument, Helmholz resona-
tor (212903); mercury barometer
marked “I Newman, 122 Regent St.,
London” (212909); 22 specimens of
electrical measuring devices (218039).
Bureau of American Ethnology: 3 cedar
bark mats from Nootka Indians, British
Columbia, Canada (214119) ; 27 miscel-
laneous archeological specimens from
Tennessee and Illinois collected by J. W.
Emmert and G. Fowke before 1894
(214961) ; (through Dr. M. W. Stirling)
15 land snails from Ecuador and 33
ethnological specimens from Ecuador
and Florida (205014) ; John W. Powell
eatalog of Indian collections deposited
in the Smithsonian Institution and sup-
plement to catalog (205360) ; 13 speci-
mens associated with Zuni Indian reli-
gious cult practices (207445). River
Basin Surveys: (Through Dr. Robert L.
Stephenson) 2 fresh-water mussels from
Iowa (212741). Collected by Missouri
Basin Project: Archeological material
from 4 Nebraska Counties, 1955
(211157) ; archeological material from
2 sites in Oahe Reservoir, Stanley
County, S. Dak., and human skeletal
material, 1955 (211158) ; archeological
material from Rock Village, Mercer
County, N. Dak., 1950-52 (213526); 9
specimens of archeological material
from Pembina River Reservoir, N.
Dak., 1948 (2138765); 1,382 specimens
of archeological material from Fort
Randall area, Gregory and Lyman
Counties, S. Dak., 1950-52 (214037) ;
archeological material from Garrison
Reservoir, McLean County, N. Dak.,
1952 (214234) ; archeological material
from Fort Randall Reservoir, Lyman
County, S. Dak., 1950 (214612). Canal
Zone Biological Area: (Through Dr.
Carl B. Koford) 35-mm motion picture
camera, Nesbit high-speed camera
(212503) ; 93 mammals from Panama
and the Canal Zone (214833). Freer
Gallery of Art: (Through H. J. Get-
tens) 9 specimens of chalconatronite,
an alteration product of some ancient
Egyptian bronzes (2118383). U. 8. Na-
tional Museum: 247 fossil fish from

U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1957

various Lower and Middle Devonian
localities in Caithness, Rosshire, For-
farshire, and Lanarkshire, Scotland,
collected by David H. Dunkle, 1956
(213611) ; 380 fossil specimens from
Upper Devonian Escuminac formation
near Maguasha West, Province of Que-
bee, including fishes of the cephalaspid,
placoderm, actenopterygian, dipnoan,
and crossopterygian groups, and plants ;
83 fossil cephalaspid and placoderm
fishes from the Lower Devonian at
Campbellton, New Brunswick, 140 fossil
ray-finned fishes from the Mississippian
Albert formation near Hillsborough,
New Brunswick, collected by David H.
Dunkle and Euclide Plourde, 1956
(211709); 1,225 phanerogams, 105
grasses, 68 ferns, 42 cryptogams from
Isle of Pines, Cuba, collected by H. P.
Killip (211912); 54 phanerogams, 1
grass, 10 cryptogams from Florida and
Texas, collected by BH. P. Killip
(211913); approximately 9,000 mol-
lusks, amphibians, fishes, marine inver-
tebrates, and insects, from California,
Lower California, Nevada, and Mis-
souri, collected by Dr. Joseph P. HB.
Morrison, 1956 (211888); 4,927 speci-
mens of plants collected in Cuba, by
C. V. Morton, 1956 (208736) ; 817 bird
skins, 16 bird skeletons; 3 nests and
5 sets of eggs of birds, 2 mammals, 1
insect, collected in Panama by Dr. A.
Wetmore (214755). Purchased: Diesel
engine, N. A. N., 1903 (211077); 276
small moths from Nova Teutonia,
Brazil (211859) ; 3 mutoscope motion
picture viewers (212173):; meteorite
from Limerick, Adare, Ireland, meteor-
ite from Misshof, Courland, Russia
(212450) ; astronomical clock of French
origin, ca. 1880 (212836) ; 15 mammals,
1 snake from Colombia (212861) ; 396
phanerogams, 97 grasses, 6 ferns, 1
eryptogam from Brazil (213095) ; Penn-
sylvania paneled room with component
parts (2133800); 6 Prang Civil War
lithographs (213555) ; 81 specimens of
placoderm and choanate fishes of the
fresh-water Upper Devonian Escuminac
formation from Quebec (214241); 65
Malayan ferns (214473) ; Huygens me-
DONORS TO THE

dallion plaster cast of portrait relief in
marble made in 1679 (214555) ; exhibit
illustrating color woodcut “piazzo San
Marco, Venice” by Irving Amen
(214686) ; color woodcut, “Te Po,’ by
Paul Gauguin (215071); etching
“Drouet,’ by James M. Whistler, and
drypoint, “Canal and Bridge of SS
Apostoli, Venice,” by Muirhead Bone
(215072) ; etching “The Sculptor,” by
Pablo Picasso and lithograph “Oda-
lisque,” by Henri Matisse (2150738) ;
metal print by Rolf Nesch, ‘Moon
Bathers” (215074) ; woodcut, hand col-
ored about 1470 “St. Catherine with the
Wheel” (215075) ; 3 color lithographs,
2 aquatints, 1 page with two woodcut
illustrations (215058) ; exhibit illustrat-
ing the making of a woodcut; 1 drawing,
1 wood block, and final print (215059) ;
National Zoological Park: 17 mammals
(215043) ; (through Dr. T. H. Reed) 47
birds (214963).

Sobelson, Milton D., Maplewood,
N. J.: Hammond folding multiplex
typewriter (213958).

Sociedad de Ciencias Naturales La
Salle, Caracas, Venezuela: (Through
Dr. Carlos Diaz Ungria) 7 cymothoid
isopods from Venezuela (210577).

Sohn, Dr. I. G. (See Interior, U. S.
Department of the)

Solecki, Dr. Ralph.
Francois)

Solem, Dr. G. Alan. (See Miller,
Cmdr. Walter B., and Michigan, Uni-
versity of)

Sommerman, Dr. Kathryn M. (See
Health, Education, and Welfare, U. S.
Department of)

Sondhi, Dr. V. P.
ernment of)

Songandares-Bernal, Dr. Franklin,
Lincoln, Nebr. : 45 copepods, 1 barnacle,
5 isopods with 14 parasitic barnacles,
12 amphipods, 5 shrimps (212536).

Sontag, William. (See Smithsonian
Institution )

Soper, Ellis Clarke, Franklin, N. C.:
1 ammonite of the Cretaceous, 1 pyeno-
dontoid fish from Colombia (213235).

Soper, F. L. (See World Health Or-
ganization)

(See Bordes, Dr.

(See India, Gov-

NATIONAL COLLECTIONS

129

Souders, Mrs. Mott, Piedmont, Calif.:
Steel engraving, “Washington’s Last
Interview with his Mother” (213682).

Soukup, Dr. J., Magdalena del Mar,
Lima, Peru: 124 phanerogams, 1 grass,
12 ferns, 2 cryptogams, from Peru
(211587, 212919).

South African Institute for Medical
Research, The, Johannesburg, South
Africa: (Through Dr. F. Zumpt) 18 lice
from South Africa (214770).

South Carolina, University of, Co-
lumbia, S. C.: (Through Dr. J. T.
Penney) 22 sponges, including holotype,
from Weeks Pond, Sumter County, S. C.
(211279) ; (through Prof. Laurence L.
Smith) holmquistite from Foote Com-
pany Quarry, Kings Mountain, S. C.
(212889, exchange).

South Dakota State College, College
Station, S. Dak.: (Through Dr. Marvin
O. Allum) 400 arguloids (211830).

Southard, Ernest B. (See Southard
of Bangor)

Southard of Bangor, Bangor, Maine:
(Through Ernest B. Southard) Yost
typewriter (212904).

Southern California, University of,
Los Angeles, Calif., Allan Hancock
Foundation: (Through Dr. N. T. Mat-
tox) conchostracans, including holo-
type, 6 paratypes (212356).

Spanton, H. G., Buenos Aires, Argen-
tina: 1 mint Argentine stamp, 1 first-
day cover (211745); 15 Argentine
Stamps and first-day covers (212194,
213309).

Sperry, Dr. Omer E. (See Agricul-
tural and Mechanical College of Texas)

Spicer, Vernona A., Flushing, N. Y.:
Medal of Honor awarded by Congress
to Captain Noble D. Preston in 1864

(214871).
Spiegel, Peter, Gierath, Germany : 100
brachiopods and _ gastropods from

Middle Devonian of Germany (214460).
Spilman, T. J.. Washington, D. C.:
19 centipedes, 20 millipedes, 2 spiders
(212870).
Spottswood, Mrs. H. Nelson. (See
Spottswood, Mrs. Margaret Judge)
Spottswood, Mrs. Margaret Judge
(deceased) : (Through Mrs. H. Nelson
130

Spottswood) dresser with mirror, late
19th century (211308).
Springer, Victor G.

University of)
Stallion, Coy. (See Hall, Thomas R.)

Stanford University, Stanford, Calif. :
(Through Dr. Robert R. Harry) 25

fishes: from tropical western Pacific
(209431, exchange); (through Daniel
M. Cohen) fish, holotype, from Pacific
Ocean (211954, exchange).

Stanley, Edward A., University Park,
Pa.: 12 type specimens of conodents
from the Devonian of Mississippi
(214461).

Stanley, Maj. D. M., Pirbright, Surrey,
England: Academic gown and hat pre-
sented to Sir Henry M. Stanley, G. C. B.,
when he was given honorary degree of
Doctor of Law at Cambridge University
(209147).

Stannard, Dr. Lewis J., Urbana, IIl.:
3 North American thrips, 1 paratype
(209638) ; 1 female thrip from Illinois
(212864). (See also Illinois Natural
History Survey Division.)

State, U. S. Department of, Washing-
ten, D. ©. (Through Charles L. Jones)
49 fishes from Liberia (211870). (See
also Leslie, Alexander)

Stearns, Dr. Harold T., Hope, Idaho:
7 fossil fishes, 1 insect, from either an
Upper Oligocene or Lower Miocene
horizon at the Brownlee Dam site,
Robinette, Oregon (210953).

Steffen, Mr. and Mrs. Elmer, Elkhorn,
Wis.: Green poplin dress trimmed with
black silk, consisting of bodice, skirt,
and overskirt of bustle type, ca. 1875
(212310).

Steger, Dan, Tampa, Fla.: 11 marine
mollusks, including 38 paratypes and 2
topotypes of new species, from Western
Atlantic (213118).

Steinberg, Miss Joan, Sydney, Aus-
tralia: 3 mollusks from Port Jackson,
New South Wales, Australia (211065).

Steinman, E. D., Lancaster, Pa.: En-
graving of Gideon Welles, Secretary of
the Navy in Abraham Lincoln’s admin-
istration, with gilt frame (211774).

Stephenson, Dr. Lloyd W., Dover,
Ohio: Palmwood bow stave and 3

(See California,

U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1957

arrows obtained from Yasa Indians,
mountain country bordering Colombia,
District of Perija, State of Zulia, Vene-
muela, 1924 (2113807).

Stephenson, Dr. Robert L.
Smithsonian Institution)

Stephenson, Prof. W. (See Queens-
land, University of)

Stick, Frank, Kitty Hawk, N. C.:
(Through Dr. Giles Mead) fish from
North Carolina (212818).

Stickley, John L. (See Lions Inter-
national)

Stickney, Alden P. (See Interior,
U. S. Department of the)

Stingley, Dale V., Donners Grove, Ill. :

(See

2 mollusks from Guaymas, Mexico
(213838).
Stirling, Dr. M. W. (See Smith-

sonian Institution)

Stockholm, University of, Stockholm,
Sweden: (Through Dr. Richard A.
Reyment) 34 brachiopods of the Creta-
ceous from Sweden (213444, exchange).

Stork, Prof. Harvey E., Berkeley,
Calif.: 1 phanerogam, 97 ferns from
Costa Rica (213955).

Stowell, Miss Edith, Chevy Chase,
Md.: 62 specimens of Argentine Re-
public postal stationery (212200).

Strasburg, Dr. Donald W. (See In-
terior, U. S. Department of the)

Straub, Paul A., Summit, N. J.: 29
specimens of German and Russian gold
and Silver coins (211729, 212384) ; book
by John S. Davenport, “Multiple
Talers,”’ 2 Liechtenstein coins (213553) ;
gold 100-Franken piece struck in 1952
by Franz Joseph II of Liechtenstein
(214860); 2 artistic plaques showing
likeness of donor (214870).

Straus, Aaron, Baltimore, Md.: 173
antique and modern Huropean, Amer-
ican, and Chinese glass paperweights,
to be known as the “Collection of Lillie
and Aaron Straus of Baltimore, Md.”
(211475).

Strelak, Joseph B., Waukegan, Ill.: 8
United States and foreign covers
(211789) ; 3 first-day wrappers
(212199) ; 15 first-day wrappers with
stamps (2133802); 18 first-day covers
(215067).
‘DONORS TO THE NATIONAL COLLECTIONS

Stromberg-Carlson Company, Roches-
ter, N. Y.: (Through Frederic W.
Haupt) telephone equipment for tele-
phone exhibit (215008).

Summerall, Col. Charles P., Jr., Bel-
mont, Mass.: Full-dress Army uniform,
designed and worn by donor’s father,
with sword, flags, and diplomas
(213710).

Sund, Paul N., Seattle, Wash.: 4 ane-
mones collected in San Juan Channel,
Friday Harbor, Wash., 1956 (211948).

Sutcliffe, Dr. W. H., Jr. (See Ber-
muda Biological Station)

Sutherland, D. J. (See Massachu-
setts, University of)

Sutton, Dr. George M.
homa, University of)

Swan, Dr. Emery F., Durham, N. H.:
7 brittle stars (209250).

Swedish Museum of Natural History,
Stockholm, Sweden: (Through Dr. Tor
@rvig) 27 casts of type anaspid and
cephalaspid ostracoderms from Lower
Devonian of Norway and Spitsbergen,
and various arthrodiran fishes from the
Lower Devonian of Podolia and Scot-
land (213609, exchange).

Swobeda, Edward, Los Angeles,
Calif. : 32 tumbled gems (214966).

Tagawa, Prof. M. (See Kyoto Uni-
versity )

Tattersall, Dr. Olive S., Hayling
Island, Hants, England: (Through Dr.
Isabella Gordon) approximately 160
Inysids (209900).

Taylor, George F., Grosse Pointe
Woods, Mich.: Original letter by Mme.
Marie Curie, dated June 5, 1919
(212858).

Taylor, John M., Villa Nova, Pa.:
(Through Col. Charles 8. Hamilton)
4-volume collection of Colombia and
Colombian states postage stamps
(213078).

Taylor, Dr. William Ralph, Washing-
ton, D. C.: 16,821 fishes, mostly fresh-

(See Okla-

water, from southern United States
(212998). (See also Michigan, Univer-
sity of)

Tee-Pak, Inc., Chicago, Ill.: 6 speci-
mens of 19th-century meatpacking
equipment (213816).

131

Tenery, Lt. Col. John H., Fort Sam
Houston, Tex.: 2 echinoids from Texas,
83 echinoid spines from the Cretaceous
of Texas (214750).

Tennessee, University of, Knoxville,
Tenn.: (Through Dr. A. C. Cole) 12
ants, paratype workers, from Texas, 10
ants, paratype workers, from Arizona
(212440) ; 10 ants from Texas (214765).

Terres, John K., New York, N. Y.:
Wasp from New York (214865).

Texas, State of, Department of
Health, Austin: (Through Dr. Richard
Hi. Eads) slug caterpillar, 3 cockroaches
from Texas (211546).

Texas, University of, Austin, Tex.:
(Through Dr. John T. Lonsdale) 3 fossil
fish and phytosaur specimens from
Texas (209910, exchange); (through
Dr. Clark Hubbs) 7 fishes, paratypes,
from Clear Creek, Tex. (2115388) ;
(through James Kenneth Baker) 13
isopods from Texas caves (21383891).
Institute of Marine Science: (Through
Dr. Henry Hildebrand) approximately
49 sea anemones, 174 crustaceans
(211881).

Texas Research Foundation, Renner,
Tex.: 195 phanerogams, 37 grasses, 5
ferns of the United States (211585, ex-
change).

Texas Technological College, Lub-
bock, Texas: (Through Ted Tibbetts)
4 slides of mites (215057).

Thomas, Mrs. Agnes E., Hyattsville,
Md.: United States flag, 1877-1890
(214391).

Thomas, Dr. G. A.
University of)

Thurman, Mrs. Ernestine, Bethesda,
Md.: 51 miscellaneous insects, spiders,
and a scorpion from Thailand, and 1
reptile (214872).

Thurow, Dr. Gordon, Braddock
Heights, Md.: Land snail from Roanoke
County, Va. (212182); 3 salamanders,
types, from Virginia, collected by
donor (214339).

Thurston, Miss Mabel Nelson, Wash-
ington, D. C.: Demorest ‘‘Fairy” sewing
machine (211581).

Tibado, Clarence J., Lake Wales, Fla.:
(Through John H. Graf) 14 color repro-

(See Melbourne,
132

ductions of paintings depicting battles
of USS Pensacola during World War II
(213554) ; 6 oil paintings of naval bat-
tles in Pacific Theater, World War II,
painted by donor while serving in U. S.
Navy (214259).

Tibbetts, Ted, Lubbock, Tex. : 21 bats
from Texas (212226, 214014, 214512).
(See also Texas Technological College)

Tilden, Dr. J. W., San Jose, Calif.: 4
butterflies from North America
(2115386).

Tipton, Capt. Vernon J., St. Louis,
Mo.: 145 lice (213058).
Titschack, Dr. E.

Museum)

Todd, Ruth.
Storrs)

Tokioka, Takashi. (See Scripps In-
stitution of Oceanography)

Tolman, Dr. Carl. (See Washington
University )

Tomkins, Ivan R., Savannah, Ga.: 15
brackish-water and salt-marsh snails
from Georgia (214056).

Torrealba, Dr. José Francisco, San
Juan de los Morros, Venezuela: opos-
sum from Venezuela (211657).

Toshima, Arinobu, Fujisaki, Aomori,
Japan: 25 Japanese moths (212674).

Townes, Dr. Henry K., Ann Arbor,
Mich.: 1 bee, type, 1 wasp from the
Philippines, type, 8 parasitic wasps
(211706, 212679, 213068, exchange).

Train, Russel E., Washington, D. C.:
87 miscellaneous insects and spiders
from East Africa (214620).

Traub, Lt. Col. Robert, Kuala Lum-
pur, Malaya: 2 fleas from Borneo
(214629). (See also Defense, Depart-
ment of, Department of the Army)

Treadon, Norman C. (See Ohio Bell
Telephone Company, The)

Treasury, U. S. Department of the,
Washington, D. C.: Bureau of Customs:
Mauser semi-automatic pistol and 26
automatic pistols, revolvers, and shot-
guns (213076, 218558, 214255). Bureau
of the Mint: (Through Mrs. Rae V.
Biester) 18 miscellaneous coins and 2
medals (214254). Internal Revenue
Service: Harrington & Richardson shot-
gun, Royal Gun Works _ shotgun

(See Altonaer

(See Cole, Dr. W.

U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1957

(211563) ; Colt, single-action “Frontier”
revolver (212876) ; 15 revolvers, pistols,
shotgun, belt, and holsters (218075) ;
Harrington and Richardson revolver
(214758) ; (through Russell C. Harring-
ton) 21,540 Internal Revenue stamps
and tax paid forms (212191).

Trimble, Randolph. (See
Thomas R.)

Trinidad Regional Virus Laboratory,
Port of Spain, Trinidad: (Through Dr.
Thomas H. G. Aitken) 248 vials of
mites from Trinidad (214375).

Troelsen, Dr. J. C., Copenhagen, Den-
mark: Approximately 100 Foraminifera
from the Tertiary of Denmark and
Sweden (211721, exchange).

Tsuneki, Dr. T. (See Fukui Univer-
sity)

Tulane University, Newcomb College,
New Orleans, La.: 15 plants from Mex-
ico (214639).

Tvedt, Reidar. (See United Nations
Postal Administration)

United Nations Postal Administra-
tion, United Nations, N. Y.: 102 UN
unused stamps (214281); (Through
Reidar Tvedt) 2 first-day covers, with
UN Day and Human Rights Day stamps
(213085) ; 200 specimens of United Na-
tions stamps (213398).

Universidad Auténoma de San Luis
Potosi, Laboratorio de Botanica, San
Luis Potosi, Mexico: 151 phanerogams,
144 grasses from Mexico, collected by
Dr. Jerzy Rzedowski (21388383, ex-
change).

Universidad de la Republica, Monte-
video, Uruguay: (Through Dr. Carlos
S. Carbonell) 8 porcellanids, 2 hermit
crabs, 14 hippas, 56 crabs with 3 ane-
mones (202180, exchange).

Universidade do Rio Grande do Sul,
Porto Alegre, Brazil: 6 plants, 4 phaner-
ogams from Brazil (211136, 211319).

Universidad Nacional Mayor de San
Marcos, Lima, Peru: 32 plants from
Peru (214800).

Universitat Graz, Geologisches In-
stitut, Graz, Austria: (Through Prof.
Dr. K. Metz) 2 Permian brachiopods
from Yugoslavia (209549, exchange).

Hall,
DONORS TO THE NATIONAL COLLECTIONS

Universitatis Jagellenicae, Instituto
Botanico, Cracow, Poland: 96 phaner-
ogams, 4 ferns from Poland (214026,
exchange).

University Museum, Oxford, Bng-
land: (Through Dr. DB. A. Chapin) 4
ladybugs from Cayman Islands
(215047).

University of Oriente Museum, San-
tiago de Cuba, Cuba : 27 wasps (212006).

Usinowicz, Stanley J., Pompton
Lakes, N. J.: Doverite from Mine Hill,
N. J. (212895).

Utah State Agricultural College,
Logan, Utah: 1 grass from New Mexico
(214029) ; (through Dr. G. F. Knowl-
ton) 9 aphids including paratypes
(215053).

Utah, University of, Salt Lake City,
Utah: 165 phanerogams, 48 grasses, 2
ferns from Grand Canyon National
Monument (2115938, exchange) ;
(through Dr. R. V. Chamberlin) centi-
pede from Texas (214772).

Vail, Miss Folsom, Oklahoma City,
Okla.: Silver bracelet, embellished with
decorative designs including arrows
and swastika in intaglio, and fluted
bosses in relief, made by Indian pupils
at Fort Wingate Indian School, Gallup,
N. Mex., and acquired by donor before
1932 (211053).

Valentine, Jacob M., Jr. (See In-
terior, U. S. Department of the)

Valerio, Prof. Manuel, San Jose, Costa
Rica: 48 marine mollusks from Costa
Rica (201664).

Vanbellingen, René, Genese, Belgium:
12 birds from Belgium (218229).

van den Bold, W. A., The Hague,
Holland: 18 slides containing 53 speci-
mens of ostracodes from the Paleocene
of Trinidad (214459).

Vandercammen, Dr. A., Brussels, Bel-
gium: 4 brachiopods of the Mississip-
pian from Belgium (213049, exchange).

Van Devanter, Winslow B., Washing-
ton, D. C.: Skull of bighorn ram,
western saddle used by donor’s father
(212312).

Van Engel, Dr. W. A.
Fisheries Laboratory)

(See Virginia

133

Van Noten, Jean, Winter Park, Fla.:
12 Belgium Tuberculosis semi-postal
issues (214898).

Van Royen, Dr. Willem, College Park,
Md.: Miscellaneous items of Plains In-
dian dress (214357).

Vargas C., Prof. César, Cuzco, Peru:
61 phanerogams, 62 grasses from Peru,
collected by donor (218097, 213292).

Vari, Dr. L., Pretoria, Union of South
Africa: 11 specimens of African micro-
lepidoptera (211958, exchange).

Vaurie, Mrs. Patrica. (See American
Museum of Natural History)

Vazquez, Alberto W., Arlington, Va.:
3 land and fresh-water mollusks from
Xilitla, San Luis Potosi, Mexico
(212016) ; 6 scorpions and 4 centipedes
from Mexico and Georgia (213282) ; 10
Mexican beetles (214634).

Velich, Ralph, Omaha, Nebr. : 16 dried
turtle shells and skins collected by
donor (213248).

Verbarg, Leonard H.
Mrs. Ida Mae)

Verheyen, Dr. René. (See Institut
Royal des Sciences Naturelles)

Veterans Administration Center,
Dayton, Ohio.: 4 oil paintings, 3 photo-
graphs, 1 crucifix pendant, and miscel-
laneous military material (214043).

Villalobos F., Dr. Alejandro. (See
Instituto de Biologia)

Viret, Dr. J. (See Muséum de
Scienees Naturelles)

Virginia Department of Agriculture
and Immigration, Richmond, Va.: 2
grasses from Virginia (212307, 212372).

Virginia Fisheries Laboratory,
Gloucester Point, Va.: (Through Dr.
Willis J. Hewatt) 10 gorgonians and
anemones (211419); (through Jay D.
Andrews) approximately 1,000 speci-
mens of marine mollusks from the
Chesapeake Bay area of Virginia
(211532); (through Dr. W. A. Van
Engel) 16 isopods from York River,
Va. (213686).

Virzi, Thomas, New York, N. Y.: Dr.
Jacob Hirsch marriage medal 1902 en-
graved by M. Gube (214868).

Vockeroth, Dr. J. R. (See Canada,
Government of)

(See Wynn,
134

Vogel, Dr. Karl M., New York, N. Y.:
John Bliss transit (214854).

Vondermuhll, George, Jr.. Washing-
ton, D. C.: Flicker (212650).

von Rosen, Dr. Hans, Stockholm,
Sweden: 12 chalcid-flies from Palearctic
(214934).

von Zielinski, Mrs. Carl M. J., Wash-
ington, D. C.: Christening dress, hand-
woven linen, 18th century (214252).

Yoous, Dr. K. H. (See Zodlogisch
Museum)

Voss, Gilbert L.
and Mrs. John)

Wade, Bruce, Murfreesboro, Tenn.:
(Through Robert B. Neuman) 2 ceph-
alopods of the Ordovician from Mur-
freesboro central basin, Tenn. (212658).

Wagener, Dr. Edward, Hamburg, Ger-
many : 52 true bugs (211975, exchange) ;
41 plant bugs from Hurope (214988,
exchange).

Wagner, Dr. Warren H., Jr.
Michigan, University of)

Waicott Fund, Smithsonian Institu-
tion: 10 Foraminifera from Eocene of
Czechoslovakia (211716); 3 foramini-
feral samples from Hocene of Virginia
(211717) ; approximately 196 fossil
mammals from Wyoming and Nebraska,
collected by Dr. C. L. Gazin, Franklin
L. Pearce and Theodore B. Ruhoff, July-
August, 1956 (211932); 22 blocks of
Permian limestone and 300 specimens
of Permian invertebrates from Glass
Mountains, Tex., 5,000 fossils of the
Devonian and Mississippian of southern
New Mexico, collected by Dr. G. A.
Cooper, A. L. Bowsher, and J. Thomas
Dutro, Jr., 1956 (213446).

Walcott Fund and National Science
Foundation Fund: 8 gorgonians, 20
dredge samples with small mollusks and
Foraminifera, 2,000 Recent mollusks,
50 fossil mollusks, 30 fossil bird bones,
approximately 16 hydrocorals, 1 lot of
bryozoans, collected in Bermuda by Dr.
David Nicol, 1956 (212318).

Waldron, Louis D. (See Proprietors
of the Locks and Canals on Merrimack
River)

Walker, Alex, Tillamook, Oreg.: 2
Arctic clams from Alaska (213663).

(See Manning, Mr.

(See

U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1957

Walker, Dr. Boyd W. (See Cali-
fornia, University of, Los Angeles
campus)

Walker, Kenneth M., Tacoma, Wash.:
12 pocket gophers, including 2 type
specimens, from Oregon and Washing-
ton (213657).

Walker, Mrs. Louise K. (deceased) :
(Through Mrs. Carol L. Congdon) over-
shot coverlet weaving made in Franklin,
Tenn., by Nancy Gadsy, grandmother
of donor, about 1880 (211588).

Wall, Dr. C. K., Thomasville, Ga.:
Piece of Tertiary wood from Alabama
(210814).

Wall, Mrs. Robert H., Jr., Washing-
ton, D. C.: Collection of textile frag-
ments and 2 reed objects from ruins of
Pachacamac, Lima, Peru (218805).

Wallace, Dr. George E. (See Carne-
gie Museum)

Wallen, Dr. i. E., Washington, D. C.:
6 land and fresh-water snails from
Oklahoma and Tennessee (211205).

Waller, Owen H., London, England:
Bottle of ‘“‘Buttler’s Dr. Bateman’s Pec-
toral Drops” and 2 bottles of ‘Dicey’s
Dr. Bateman’s Pectoral Drops”
(215014).

Walsh, Louise, Teufen, Santisgebiet,
Switzerland: 2 birds from Taiwan,
Formosa (213753).

Walter, Dr. Waldemar M., Pullman,
Wash.: 116 fresh-water mollusks from
the Columbia River Basin Project,
Wash. (210989).

Walton, Capt. Bryce C., Washington,
D. C.: 8 leeches, 2 egg cases and insects
(212157).

Waizer, Newton L.
Marsh Company)

Ward, Philip H., Jr., Philadelphia,
Pa.: 2,005 foreign stamps (212974).

Warren, Dr. P. S. (See Alberta, Uni-
versity of)

Warsaw, Max, Chicago, Ill.: 5 French
porcelain drug jars, ca. 1857, 19th-cen-
tury Mexican imitation porcelain drug
jar (2125380).

Washington, State College of, Pull-
man, Wash.: (Through Prof. George B.
Hudson) 1 aleoholie bird (2138924).

(See Jordan
DONORS TO THE NATIONAL COLLECTIONS

Washington, University of, Seattle,
Wash. : 54 amphipods collected on sand
beaches near Seattle (211210) ;
(Through Dr. W. Wieser) 33 amphi-
pods (209752); (through Dr. T. C.
Frye) 43 bryophytes (212229, ex-
change) ; (through William Aron) 339
amphipods (212615, gift-exchange) ;
(through Dr. N. S. Hinchey and Dr.
Carl Tolman) 118 specimens of type
fossils (2143850).

Watanabe, Dr. Chihisa.
kaido University)

Watkins, C. Malcolm, Washington,
D. C.: Fragmentary redware olive oil
jar (2143856).

Watson, Mr. and Mrs. George H.,
Sturbridge, Mass.: Windsor settee, pair
of 19th-century brass candlesticks, tree-
trunk barrel, stave barrel (212648).

Way, Mrs. Elwood J., Washington,
D. C.: Embroidered baby shirt, hand-
kerchief, 2 lace collars (212370).

Webb, J. H., Rochester, N. Y.: mol-
lusk holotype from Japan (212337).

Webb, Walter F., St. Petersburg, Fla. :
Starfish (211049).

Weber, Jay A., Miami, Fla.: Approxi-
mately 150 miscellaneous mollusks,
2,000 bird lice (210949, 212597).

Weber, Prof. Neal A., Swarthmore,
Pa.: Frog and lizard from Zent, Costa
Rica, collected by donor (211984).

Weber, Dr. William A. (See Colo-
rado, University of)

Wedgwood & Sons, Inc., Josiah, New
York, N. Y.: Wedgwood plate, cup, and
saucer made for White House during

(See Hok-

Theodore Roosevelt administration
(214607).
Weems, Howard V., Jr. (See Florida,

State Plant Board of)

Weiss, Helena M., Washington, D. C.:
Nicaragua envelope franked with pair
of National Exposition overprints, 5-
cent Social Assistance stamp (2138459).

Welch, Prof. Winona H. (See De-
Pauw University)

Wells, Dr. Harry W., Durham, N. C.:
65 marine and fresh-water mollusks
from North Carolina (210373).

135

Welsh, Henry, Port Blizabeth, South
Africa; Monze meteorite from Northern
Rhodesia (212270, exchange).

Wenzel, Dr. Rupert. (See Chicago
Natural History Museum)

Werner, Dr. Floyd G. (See Arizona,
University of)

West Virginia University, Morgan-
town, W. Va.: 6 plants, 39 phanerogams,
3 grasses, 3 ferns, from United States
(212443, 214024, exchange); (through
Dr. Frank J. Schwartz) 6 fishes from
West Virginia (213596, exchange).

Westerfield, Mrs. Jason, Camden,
Maine: Costumes and costume acces-
sories of the 19th- and 20th-centuries,
known as “The Peggy Westerfield Col-
lection” (212105).

Western Electric Company, New
York, N. Y.: Telephone equipment for
the telephone exhibit (215010).

Westinghouse Electric Corp., New-
ark, N. J.: (Through Barber-Colman
Co.) Hendey Norton quick change gear
lathe, 1899 (214382).

Western Reserve University, Cleve-
land, Ohio: (Through Dr. Charles C.
Davis) 1 lot of hydroids from Lake
County, Ohio (212788).

Wetmore, Dr. Alexander, Washing-
ton, D. C.: 6 coins from Panama and
Curagao (214865) ; (See also Johnson,
Dr. Carl M. and Allan Cruickshank)

Whealton, A. P., Black Creek, N. C.:
Bottle of “Godfrey’s Cordial” and bottle
of “Bateman’s Pectoral Drops.”
(215013)

Wheeler, Dr. G. C., Grand Forks, N.
Dak.: 2 chalcid flies, holotypes, from
Costa Rica (214614).

Wheeler, Dr. M. R., Austin, Tex.: 5
flies, 2 paratypes, 3 holotypes (212688).

Wheeler, Mrs. William H., Jr. (See
Dingwell, Paul D.)

Whelen, Col. Townsend, Washington,
D. C.: Packard bolt-action sporting
rifle and 10 accompanying specimens,
including carrying case (211562).

Whitley, Col. Joseph H., San Anselmo,
Calif.: 41 stone artifacts from Bona-
parte, Towa (213764).
136

Whitman, Sol., New York, N. Y. 214
U. S. stamped envelopes and postcards
(212190).

Wieser, Dr. W.
University of)

Wiggins, Dr. Ira L., Stanford, Calif. :
Harbor seal from Alaska (212211).

Wigley, Roland L. (See Interior,
U. S. Department of the)

Wilder, R. S., Co., Waltham, Mass.:
(Through Lloyd S. Gates) bench
micrometer (213297).

William and Mary, College of, Wil-
liamsburg, Va.: 3 plants (212175).

Williams, Dr. Austin B. (See North
Carolina, University of)

Williams, Catherine, Alexandria, Va.:
British military musket (214888).

Williams, Dr. F. X., La Mesa, Calif. :
Wasp from Baja California (214480).

Williams, Julian, Norwich, Conn.:
Wag-on-the-Wall clock (218294).

Williams, Dr. Louis O. (See Escuela
Agricola Panamericana)

Williams, Mrs. Marthena Harrison,
Washington, D. C.: Theater program
printed on blue satin for performance
at New National Theatre, Washington,
D. C., 1892, official program of tour of
President Benjamin Harrison to West
Coast, 1891, small engraving of Alvin

(See Washington,

Saunders, 1817-1899, U. S. Senator

(211566).

Williams, Dr. Robert V., Tucson,
Ariz.: 10 centipedes from Arizona
(214227).

Wilson, Dr. E. O. (See Harvard
University )

Wilson, Eunice C., Kingston, N. Y.:
(Through Cora EH. Gillis) walking stick
(214258).

Wilson, Mrs. Mildred S., Anchorage,
Alaska: 11 specimens of copepod types
(211258).

Wilson, Orme, Washington, D. C., and
Wilson, R. Thornton, New York, N. Y.:
Piece of printed cotton depicting fisher-
man’s home and his departure (214739).

Wilson, R. Thornton. (See Wilson,
Orme)

Wimsatt, W. K., Washington, D. C.:
srass medal commemorating President
John Adams (214859).

U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1957

Winn, Dr. Howard E.
land, University of)

Winokur, Seymour.
Dr. William)

Winokur, Dr. William, and Winokur,
Seymour, Detroit, Mich.: Collection of
1,046 specimens of stamps, covers, and
postal stationery of Albania (213079).

Wires, E. Stanley, Wellesley Hills,
Mass.: 23 Dutch and 24 Spanish tiles
(212645).

Wiseman, R. B.
Company )

Witt, William L., Arlington, Va.: 208
reptiles and amphibians from Virginia
(214583).

Wolfe, Col. L. R., Kerrville, Tex.: 1
downy young of insect hawk, 1 cave
swallow, 2 hawks (212174, 214791).

Wolff, Dr. Torben. (See Copenhagen,
University of)

Wolters, Mrs. C. F., Swarthmore, Pa.:
22 numismatic items relating to Chris-
tian Gobrecht, engraver of U. S. Mint,
mid-19th century (214761).

Wood, Jennings. (See Library of
Congress)

Woodcock, H. E., Chicago, Ill.: Moth
from Key Largo, Fla. (218065) ; Trop-
ical crab-spider from Florida (213373).

Woodring, Dr. W. P. (See Interior,
U. S. Department of the)

Woods, Mrs. E. Charles, Alexandria,
Va.: Kerosene lamp, Adams & West-
lake (212527).

Woolley, Mrs. Florence T., Denver,
Colo.: 5 polished agates and 1 jasper
sphere from the Cloyd F. Woolley col-
lection (213752).

Woolworth, Dr. Alan R. (See North
Dakota, State Historical Society of)

World Health Organization, Pan
American Sanitary Bureau, Washing-
ton, D. C.: (Through IF. L. Soper and
H. C. Chamberlayne) 38 rodents from
Peru (211041).

Wright, Dr.W. H. (See Health, Edu-
cation and Welfare, Department of)

Wynn, Mrs. Ida Mae, Oakland, Calif.
(Through Leonard H. Verbarg) Book
of Common Prayer, ca. 1870, and a
Signal flag (212781).

(See Mary-

(See Winokur,

(See North Electric
DONORS TO THE NATIONAL COLLECTIONS

Wyoming, University of, Laramie,
Wyo.: 2 grasses from Wyoming
(208186) .

Yachting, New York, N. Y.: (Through
W. H. de Fontaine) 26 drawings of
Far East vessels by W. M. Blake
(2138826).

Yasmatsu, Dr. Keizo, Fukuoka,
Japan: 13 bees, including 9 species,
from Japan (212871) ; 36 specimens of
11 species of Japanese ants, including
4 paratypes (213278, exchange); 4
wasps, paratypes (214631).

Yates, Mrs. Julian, Washington, D.
C.; Crossbelt plate, U. S. Army, period
of Civil War, found on battlefield of
Cold Harbor (211564).

Yunker, Dr. Conrad E. (See Defense,
U. S. Department of, Department of
the Navy)

Yugoslavia, Government of, Direction
Generale des Postes, Belgrade: 32
stamps and covers (215024).

Zehring, Mrs. Robert W., Silver
Spring, Md.: Black silk faille short
coat worn by Caroline B. Lorenz, Day-
ton, Ohio, 1902; pair of hand-knit black
silk stockings, 19th century (211348).

Zetek, James, Balboa, Canal Zone:
Gold medal commemorating the first
crossing of the Panama Canal and the

137

Gorgas Institute bronze medal struck in
1923 (214574); 60 specimens of the
10-cent Canal Zone postage stamp issued
in 1948 for the 25th anniversary of the
establishment of Canal Zone Biological
Area, Barro Colorado Island, and a
photograph of coatimundi used for the
design, selected by Meade Bolten
(211555).

Ziesenhenne, Fred C., Los Angeles,
Calif.: Collection of brittle stars and
sea urchins from Samoa (175778).

Zigrosser, Carl. (See Boegner Foun-
dation, Margaret Grace)

Zoological Museum, The, Hertford-
shire, England: (Through F. G. A. M.
Smit) 4 fleas from Africa (214845).

Zodlogisch Museum, Amsterdam,
Netherlands: (Through Dr. J. J. Hoede-
man) 77 fishes from Indo-Pacific region
(211066, exchange; (through Dr. K. H.
Voous) 1 young hawk (211666, ex-
change).

Zoologisch Museum en Laboratorium,
Buitenzorg, Java: 11 echinoderms
(118266).

Zumpt, Dr. F., Johannesburg, South
Africa; 8 true lice from Africa
(213056). (See also South African
Institute for Medical Research)

U. S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE: 1957
nite
orbge

Be

ren 4
OUD

we i *!
(penne

hae
vie he
4

“6

=
—
—"
_—
tansy
tie

a s

thn

a er

ree

~— ae
a ee
ee Le
—_ pn
Seeeacad
ae
a —
%
rane ~~ a
eee wwe
ray

aiden

i # ~
‘
e :
” .
, 2
he ~
bin t
a ’
<
y , ~ , i
, om
~ 54
. ¢ > ~
, - i
‘ 5 2 =
; ’
. » “ .
2 “ * £
-_—_ -
" » “a 7
. ~ ‘
* on = ¥
‘wale . “ .
+ | >
= a fees
j g é oe 2
& 7 : & é
‘
‘ cad - - —-
. ; " we
5 :
4 :
+ ected “4
- x v
thee = s
3
= = m = ‘
7 = ™
a ?
= as ° im
~ pes ~ -
: 9 7.
r ~ e
'
»
‘
“

coe rs —— —— — ———————— _ — — aoe ee eer — ——— — = ee a
*
‘
-
°
-
-
a
Sita) 2 EL] a

terme mca

