Lad
The United States

National Museum

Annual Report for the Year Ended
June 30, 1961

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION
Unirep States Nationat Museum,
Unpber Direction oF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION,
Washington, D.C., August 15, 1961.

Sir: I have the honor to submit herewith a report upon the present
condition of the United States National Museum and upon the work
accomplished in its various departments during the fiscal year ended
June 30, 1961.

Very respectfully,
Remineron Ken.oae,
Director, US. National Museum.
Dr. Lronarp CARMICHAEL,
Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.

It
Contents

UN DRODUCTTONEt se ieraaia se ee Losers ier tanec, menutemanl Gs eal Seo ues, alas 2
FHPXEHINB DSU i ee ane re eae sey eee ne he uP Mi Me arcu Mirai Soa tiey hl toe lili MaMa ee kp em 11
NCCE SSLONSWinte sane Ma tee chases OF Modis esr sin deh es en ee, eRe tae EE Ap me ae 37
CARMONA C, OLLECRION Ga onic ee ee niet er ion uae. TE ano esac as baa 54
JU ARSGATNIOM, ARID) IRIDSISVAXIEIG LG) 56 oo 6 6 6 0 6 oo 6 of bo 6 6 6 66
ATAGHTO POLO Cayaseraltes Kk Ghat on AS eho.) tanta hous al eet seine uty ae ed 66
OOO Devaar aetna fee nemesis, nis, Veiga tae eee, Vat Geum leet Pe ee ees 72
BOCA Mbt ott sens wer Ne Tacos a ey er erucee eee wapeeh ore el, Nan 80
CEOlO Daya ae eens Bae mR SUI ENE eich hat ciace a nee ted Seer om Mca ers oa. 83
SUMING Chavel Weve; Be 6 Go GS 6 S666 6 6 lo oo owe 92
Artsvand, Manutacturese:aiaxe camel n awison ee wa. 94
GiB SCO Tyan ciais ie wlan siesta ea oes ne Mie eM AVES iets LUD Pane p ra ee) ata Nal re 98
AIME AEM ONCESMELISUOTY: Au ta merivsy Ge cee ee) cheese teh ee ee ve wes ler 102
PUB ET CATION Grams coupe teistas sutaynsi shiney Nene), Reais MeL bbe says) Hae. rs 104
IDOE INO) ANSTO INATIO NAG (COMUTNCTIONIE 6 5 6 06 a 6 6 6 6 5 oo 116

Tit
June 30, 1961

United States National Museum

Director: Remington Kellogg

Registrar: Helena M. Weiss

Museum or NAtTurRAL History

Director: Albert C. Smith
Mabel A. Byrd, Administrative Officer

Department of Anthropology: T. Dale Stewart, head curator

ARCHEOLOGY: Waido R. Wedel, curator
Clifford Hvans, Jr., associate curator
Gus W. Van Beek, associate curator

HTHNOLOGY: Saul H. Riesenberg, cura-

tor

Gordon D. Gibson, associate curator

Eugene I. Knez, associate curator
Robert A. Elder, Jr., assistant curator
PuysicaAL ANTHROPOLOGY: T. Dale
Stewart, acting curator
Marshall T. Newman, associate cura-
tor

A. Joseph Andrews, exhibits specialist

Department of Zoology: Fenner A. Chace, Jr., acting head curator

MamMats: David H. Johnson, curator
Henry W. Setzer, associate curator
Charles O. Handley, Jr., associate

eurator

Brrps: Herbert G. Deignan, curator

M.

REPTILES AND AMPHIBIANS: Doris

Cochran, curator

Fisues: Leonard P. Schultz, curator
Ernest A. Lachner, associate curator
William R. Taylor, associate curator

Insects: J. F. Gates Clarke, curator
Oscar L. Cartwright, associate cura-

tor

Ralph E. Crabill, Jr., associate cura-
tor
William D. Field, associate curator
Oliver S. Flint, Jr., associate curator
MARINE INVERTEBRATES: Fenner A.
Chace, Jr., curator
Frederick M. Bayer, associate curator
Thomas EH. Bowman, associate cura-

tor
Charles E. Cutress, Jr., associate cu-
rator

Mo.tiusKs: Harald A. Rehder, curator
Joseph P. E. Morrison, associate cu-
rator

Department of Botany: Jason R. Swallen, head curator

PHANEROGAMS :
rator
Emery C. Leonard, associate curator
Richard 8S. Cowan, associate curator
Velva E. Rudd, associate curator
John J. Wurdack, associate curator
FERNS: Conrad V. Morton, curator
GRASSES: Jason R. Swallen, acting cu-
rator

Lyman B. Smith, cu-

Thomas R. Soderstrom, assistant cu-
rator
CRYPTOGAMS: Mason E. Hale, associate
curator in charge
Paul 8. Conger, associate curator
Robert R. Ireland, assistant curator
Woops: William L. Stern, curator

Vv
Department of Geology: G. Arthur Cooper, head curator

MINERALOGY AND PETROLOGY: George 8S.
Switzer, curator
Edward P. Henderson, associate cu-
rator
Paul E. Desautels, associate curator
Roy 8S. Clarke, Jr., chemist
INVERTEBRATE PALEONTOLOGY AND PaA-
LEOBOTANY: Richard S. Boardman,
associate curator in charge.

Porter M. Kier, associate curator
Richard Cifelli, associate curator
Erle G. Kauffman, associate curator

VERTEBRATE PALEONTOLOGY: C. Lewis

Gazin, curator

Nicholas Hotton 111, associate curator

Franklin L. Pearce, exhibits specialist

Museum oF History AND TECHNOLOGY

Director: Frank A. Taylor

Assistant Director: John C. Ewers

William E. Boyle, administrative officer

Department of Science and Technology: Robert P. Multhauf, head curator

PHYSICAL SCIENCES: Robert P.
thauf, acting curator
MECHANICAL AND CIvIL ENGINEERING:
Eugene §S. Ferguson, curator;
charge of Section of Tools
Edwin A. Battison, associate curator,
Sections of Light Machinery and
Horology
Robert M. Vogel, associate curator,
Sections of Heavy Machinery and
Civil Engineering
TRANSPORTATION: Howard I. Chapelle,

Mul-

in

curator; in charge of Section of
Marine Transportation
Kenneth M. Perry, associate curator
John H. White, Jr., associate curator,
Section of Land Transportation
ELEcTRIcITy: W. James King, curator
MepicaL Sciences: John B. Blake, cu-
rator ; in charge of Section of Medi-
cal and Dental History
Sami K. Hamarneh, associate curator,
Section of Pharmaceutical History
and Health

Department of Arts and Manufactures: Philip W. Bishop, head curator

TEXTILES: Grace L. Rogers, associate
curator in charge

CERAMICS AND GLASS: Paul V. Gardner,
associate curator in charge

MANUFACTURES AND HEAVY INDUSTRIES:
Philip W. Bishop, acting curator
Charles O. Houston, Jr., associate

curator

GraPpHic Arts: Jacob Kainen, curator AGRICULTURE AND ForEST PrRopucts:

Eugene Ostroff, associate curator,
Section of Photography
Fuller O. Griffith, associate curator

VI

Edward C. Kendall, associate curator
in charge
Department of Civil History: Richard H. Howland, head curator

Peter C. Welsh, associate curator; Arlene P. Krimgold, assistant curator

PoLiticAL History: Wilcomb EK. Wash- John N. Pearce, assistant curator
burn, curator Anthony W. Hathaway, junior cu-
Mrs. Margaret Brown Klapthor, as- rator
sociate curator PHILATELY AND POSTAL HISTORY:
Mrs. Anne W. Murray, assistant cu- George T. Turner, associate curator
rator - in charge
Herbert R. Collins, assistant curator Francis J. McCall, associate curator
CULTURAL History: C. Malcolm Wat- Carl H. Scheele, assistant curator
kins, curator NuMISMATICS: Vladimir Clain-Stefa-
Rodris C. Roth, associate curator nelli, associate curator in charge
John D. Shortridge, associate curator Mrs. Hlvira Clain-Stefanelli, asso-
Cynthia L. Adams, assistant curator ciate curator

Department of Armed Forces History: Mendel L. Peterson, head curator

Minirary History: Edgar M. Howell, Navan History: Philip K. Lundeberg,
curator associate curator in charge
Craddock R. Goins, Jr., associate
curator

Office of Exhibits: John E. Anglim, Chief

Rolland O. Hower, assistant chief Benjamin W. Lawless, assistant chief
Bela S. Bory, production supervisor
Watson M. Perrygo, in charge of Taxidermy
VII
Honorary Smithsonian Fellows, Collaborators, Associates,
Custodians of Collections, and Honorary Curators

Anthropology

John M. Campbell, Archeology H. Morgan Smith, Archeology
Neil M. Judd, Anthropology Walter W. Taylor, Jr., Anthropology
Herbert W. Krieger, Anthropology William J. Tobin, Physical Anthropol-
Betty J. Meggers, Archeology ogy
Frank M. Setzler, Anthropology

Zoology
Doris H. Blake, Insects Allen McIntosh, Helminthology
J. Bruce Bredin, Biology J. Percy Moore, Marine Invertebrates
Melbourne A. Carriker, Jr., Insects Carl F. W. Muesebeck, Insects
Ailsa M. Clark, Marine Invertebrates Waldo L. Schmitt, Marine Invertebrates
Carl J. Drake, Insects Benjamin Schwartz, Helminthology
Herbert Friedmann, Birds Robert E. Snodgrass, Insects
David C. Graham, Biology Thomas H. Snyder, Isoptera
Horton H. Hobbs, Jr., Crayfishes Henry K. Townes, Insects
A. Braizer Howell, Mammals Alexander Wetmore, Birds
Frank M. Hull, Insects Mrs. Mildred Stratton Wilson, Copepod
Laurence Irving, Birds Crustacea
William L. Jellison, Insects

Botany
Chester R. Benjamin, Fungi Kittie Ff. Parker, Phanerogams
Agnes Chase, Grasses John A. Stevenson, Fungi
Ellsworth P. Killip, Phanerogams William N. Watkins, Woods
Floyd A. McClure, Grasses

Geology
Ray S. Bassler, Paleontology C. Wythe Cooke, Invertebrate Pale-
Roland W. Brown, Paleobotany ontology

Preston E. Cloud, Invertebrate Paleon- Waldemar T. Schaller, Mineralogy
tology

History

Mrs. Arthur M. Greenwood, Cultural Ivor Noél Hume, Cultural History
History Fred W. McKay, Numismati¢s
Elmer C. Herber, History
Exhibits
William L. Brown, Taxidermy

VIII
Annual Report of
the Director

United States National Museum

Introduction

From the earliest days of our national existence the Congress has
shown interest in the scientific progress of cur Nation. Exploration
of our country and the study of its natural resources have been en-
couraged and supported. But at first no provision was made to
preserve the novel scientific materials collected by early governmental
expeditions and surveys.

However, in 1846 the Regents of the newly established Smithsonian
Institution, at the request of the 29th Congress, agreed to accept
responsibility for the care of these collections, provided that adequate
space and financial aid be granted. As a result, the United States
National Museum was established in March 1857 as a Federal Bureau,
to be administered by the Smithsonian Institution and financially
supported by the Government of the United States.

Over the years, collections have flowed into the United States
National Museum, keeping pace with our expanding national bound-
aries and the amazing progress of science. One of the most important
functions of any museum is to preserve and make available the objects
confided to its care. In the field of natural history—which includes
many aspects of zoology, botany, geology, and anthropology—it is
from collections of these objects that much of our basic knowledge
is derived. Such objects, when they are wisely collected and carefully
documented and arranged, make the museum an orderly, useful
By June 1961 the foundation of the east wing of the
Natural History building had been completed and
work on the first floor was in progress. In this
view from across Constitution Avenue, the east end
of the wing is partly hidden by the tree in the
foreground. At the left is seen Ninth Street, NW.,
and in the background, the Arts and Industries
building.
INTRODUCTION 3

treasure house of reference materials—a reservoir of factual informa-
tion from which layman and scientist alike benefit.

In 1904 the designers of our Natural History building provided
what they thought was space sufficient for normal growth. At that
time they could hardly have foreseen the impending explosive expan-
sion of scientific knowledge. The older scientific cisciplines have
since expanded into broader fields, and new sciences have been born
and have come of age. The importance of the Museum to the Nation
was also underestimated by the designers; they did not anticipate
the increasing number of individuals and agencies that would find
daily use of the collections essential to their work.

Our natural history collections have kept pace with these new
developments and have even anticipated them, but the facilities for
accommodating this vast treasure have remained static for more than
half a century. Asa result, the new building had reached its efficient
capacity in the 1920’s, and by 1928 its Director was already pointing
out the need for larger quarters for his staff and collections.

Since 1930 the natural history collections that are basic to scientific
work in zoology, botany, geology, and anthropology have nearly
tripled in size in shghtly more than 30 years, even though their
growth is carefully controlled and only those specimens believed
essential to scientific progress are accessioned.

It is, therefore, a source of profound satisfaction to the Regents
of the Smithsonian Institution, as well as to its staff and its well-
wishers throughout the world, that the Congress has now made avail-
able the funds needed for the construction of additions to the Museum
of Natural History building of the U.S. National Museum. At the
end of fiscal year 1961 the east wing construction was well under
way, its completion being scheduled for the spring of 1963. Plans
for the west wing and for modernization of the existing building are
approaching completion, and it is confidently anticipated that the
entire project will be completed, and the new wings fully occupied,
during 1964.

The two additions to the existing building will be essentially mirror
images of one another; each will have over-all dimensions of 199
by 180 feet and will consist of a basement, ground floor, and six upper
floors. The two wings together will have a gross area of approximately
537,000 square feet and a net area of about 390,000 square feet. Hach
will provide service facilities for the visiting public, such as rest-
rooms, and elevators giving access to exhibit halls in the existing
building. The portion of each wing abutting the existing building
will contain a mechanical equipment area that will house air-condi-
tioning equipment, and through these areas and a cooling tower in the
4 U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1961

present east court the wings and the present building will be com-
pletely air-conditioned. The advantages of this for the visiting pub-
lic, the staff and scientific visitors, and for the collections themselves,
are too obvious to emphasize.

Some of the many essentials provided by this new construction
include efficiently located and arranged storage space that gives maxi-
mum protection and accessibility to the collections ; modern, specialized
laboratories and workrooms that promote maximum efficiency in both
the use of the collections and the efforts of the scientists; general
service laboratories that consolidate those needs shared by many dis-
ciplines; and workshops for the preparation and mounting of speci-
mens and the construction and repair of exhibits.

For the staff members of the Museum of Natural History, for the
large number of scientists from other Federal agencies who are
permanently housed in the Museum and use its materials constantly,
and for the many hundreds of visiting scientists who yearly consult
the collections for periods of days or months, this building program
now in its final stage represents the culmination of years of planning
and hoping. The entire scientific community of the country shares our
satisfaction in knowing that the Government’s irreplaceable and basic
tools of natural history will soon be housed in a manner fitting their
scientific significance.

The general arrangement of each floor in the new wings is essen-
tially standardized; there will be a central area for the appropriate
reference collection, surrounded on the three outside walls of the
wing by a series of workrooms and laboratories. These will all be
approximately 19 feet on one dimension and will vary in the other
according to the use proposed for them. All such rooms will have
excellent dayhght and will contain the facilities needed for the in-
tended use as designated by the members of the scientific staff, who
in each case have designed the details of their own areas. On the
average, each floor will have between 20 and 30 workrooms or lab-
oratories, and each division will center its activities within a well-
demarcated area.

The east wing is designed to house, on approximately 414 floors,
practically all the functions of the department of geology and the
activities associated with it. The top floor of this wing will be utilized
by the division of birds, and a large part of the fifth floor by the
division of mollusks, these of course being two parts of the large
department of zoology.

The west wing will house the division of fishes on its ground floor,
the division of marine invertebrates on its first and much of its second
floor, the division of reptiles and amphibians on the rest of the second
floor, the entire department of botany on the third and fourth floors,
INTRODUCTION 5)

and the division of insects on the fifth and sixth floors, a portion of
which will also provide some storage space for the division of mam-
mals, which otherwise will occupy the adjacent top floor of the western
part of the existing building.

Space on the third floor of the present building will be remodeled
to permit the suitable expansion of the entire department of anthro-
pology and the establishment of an adequate photographic laboratory
that will provide service to all units of the Museum of Natural History.
Three existing attic areas of the present building, to be adequately
lighted and air-conditioned, will permit housing of some of the study
collections of the department of anthropology and the division of
mammals.

With the removal of scientific activities from the entire first and
second floors of the present building, two public halls originally
designed for exhibits will be returned to their proper use. The ground
floor of the existng building will ultimately house an expanded
central Smithsonian Library, some study areas of the division of
fishes, a modernized cold room for the important fur collection of
the division of mammals, completely renovated facilities for those
activities of the office of exhibits that pertain to natural history, and
improved shops of the buildings management department.

The building program here discussed opens many vistas of progress
for our staff scientists and their colleagues, who are concerned equally
with care of the collections and the research, based upon them, that
expands our knowledge. Science is never static. A museum does not
progress merely by keeping in excellent condition the materials in
its care, although custodial competence is certainly a prerequisite to
advancement. Only by applying modern viewpoints and modern
techniques can the traditional branches of science progress. Staff
members of the Museum of Natural History have these viewpoints,
and with the space and equipment that is provided by the new addi-
tions, they can implement their research by modern techniques. They
eagerly welcome this opportunity to project their skills in new and
potentially profitable directions.
\
| Jel bua

la

Cornerstone of the Museum of History and Technology
was laid May 19, 1961. It is located at the north-
east corner of the building (lower right).
Buildings

Additions to the Museum of Natural History

For the construction of the east wing extension and for alterations
and air conditioning of the existing Natural History building a con-
tract was awarded January 3, 1961, to the George Hyman Construction
Company, for the sum of $7,748,000. Construction was started
January 6.

At the close of the fiscal year the project was 17.5 percent complete.
Excavation for all major portions of the east wing extension was com-
pleted, the basement raft slab was approximately 80 percent con-
structed, and the depressed areas in the northeast corner of the
basement had been waterproofed. Foundation walls for the mechani-
cal equipment buildings in the east and west courts of the Natural
History building were poured. All underground plumbing for the
east court equipment building had been inspected and backfilled, and
chilled-water and condenser-water lines in the tunnel of the central
equipment building in the east court were 95 percent laid. Construc-
tion of the rerouted trunk sewer was finished the first week of May
1961.

The General Services Administration has selected Mills, Petticord
and Mills, architects for the east wing extension, to complete plans and
specifications for the design of the west wing extension.

Museum of History and Technology

The cornerstone of the Museum of History and Technology was laid
May 19, 1961. The Honorable Earl Warren, Chief Justice of the
United States Supreme Court and Chancellor of the Smithsonian
Institution, together with Senator Clinton P. Anderson, Regent of
the Smithsonian Institution and Chairman of the Joint Congressional
Committee for a Museum of History and Technology, spoke of the
history and purpose of the new building. The Regents of the Smith-
sonian Institution and members of the Joint Congressional Committee
participated in placing the mortar for the stone. At the close of the
fiscal year the building was approximately 50 percent complete.

Details of the progress of construction during the year and a brief
description of the exhibits planned for the building are contained in
the report of the Joint Congressional Committee (Senate Report No.
365, Sith Cong. Ist Sess., June 12, 1961), as follows:

~A BUILDING FOR A MUSEUM OF HISTORY AND TECHNOLOGY

The Joint Congressional Committee on Construction of a Building for a
Museum of History and Technology for the Smithsonian Institution submits
this report on the progress of the planning and construction of the building.

‘
8 U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1961

The last report of the committee dated May 28, 1960, described the beginning
of construction of the building for the Smithsonian Institution’s Museum of
History and Technology. Construction, as of March 1961, reached 35 percent
of completion, but the rate of progress has not attained what was originally
scheduled. The normal expected progress to March 15, 1961, was 59 percent
and every effort will be made to speed the remaining work in order that the
building may be finished not later than July 1, 1962, even though the present
anticipated date of completion is several months beyond that.

All structural steel has been erected, the concrete decks set in place on all
floors, the concrete walls completed from the basement floor to the second floor,
and precast wall panels which will backup the exterior stone are now being
erected above the second floor. The mechanical work is more advanced than
normally would be expected at this stage of construction. Most of this progress
Was accomplished prior to December 10, 1960, when Washington began to
experience its worst winter weather in recent years. Practically no general
construction was performed on this, or, we are informed, on any other large
local building in the period from December 10 to December 31 because of snow,
cold, and rain.

On January 9, 1961, officers of the Smithsonian Institution, the General Sery-
ices Administration, and the firm of supervisory architects called on the chairman
of the committee to discuss the progress of the building. At that time construc-
tion was 30 percent completed. This was 11 percentage points below the
expected status of construction for the date. The representatives of the General
Services Administration stated that the rate of progress might be improved
considerably by expanding the work force engaged in concrete work. In this way
space might be made available more rapidly for work by the mechanical and
other trades. It was estimated at that time that the concrete work could be
completed in about 3 months of favorable pouring weather and the exterior
stone in about 9 months. Steps to expand the work force and to minimize the
delay were discussed. A summary of the matters considered was sent to the
members of the committee in the form of the 11th monthly report from the
Smithsonian Institution. Monthly meetings between officials of the regional
office of the Public Buildings Service were begun as a result of the discussion and
Within the following 2 months the average work force was increased from 250
men to 425.

Subsequent to January 9, 1961, four heavy snowstorms occurring about a week
apart caused another month’s delay in the pouring of concrete. Temporary heat
in enclosed sections of the building permitted some types of interior work to
proceed although many other major construction projects in the area were
completely halted.

The General Services Administration recently reported that unexpectedly
large quantities of stone had to be removed from the quarries to produce the
volume of acceptable marble required for the exterior of the building, but that
all appropriate means were being taken to expedite the production of the finished
marble. The first shipment of marble arrived at the building site in March 1961.

The General Services Administration, after evaluating all delaying factors,
has advised that the anticipated date of completion is how September 1962.
This statement was qualified with the assurance that every practicable way of
improving the schedule would be sought.

The plan for the exhibits within the building has been described in detail in
previous reports made by the committee to the Congress. The purpose of the
exhibits will be to present to the millions of citizens who visit the Smithsonian
INTRODUCTION 9

Institution each year a vital exposition of its great collections, commemorating
the national heritage and illustrating the historical development of the basic
elements in the life of the country. Original objects associated with famous
Americans and historical events, including the original Star-Spangled Banner
which inspired Francis Scott Key to write the national anthem, the desk at
which Jefferson drafted the Declaration of Independence, Washington’s sword,
and many other memorabilia will graphically commemorate stirring events.
Humble objects of everyday use will be shown in authentic settings to point out
the evolution of our way of life.

For the first time in any museum original objects of great historical and in-
dividual importance will be combined with period furniture, coaches, tools, con-
temporary prints of home life and business activities, weapons, uniforms,
documents, coins, engines, printing machines, watercraft, and many other
things, to form chronological exhibits of the growth of our American civilization.
Old plows and tractors, mills, machines, vehicles, locomotives, and original patent
models of the electric light, the telephone, the typewriter, and many other de-
vices, will be woven into exhibits illustrating important steps in our agricultural
and industrial development. The history of science and technology will be
traced in exhibits of the original apparatus of the scientists, relating their great
discoveries to the machines and structures in which our inventors and engineers
applied new scientific knowledge for the benefit of mankind.

The building, when completed, and fully installed with its exhibits, will prob-
ably display a wider scope and variety of collections than any other museum.
Exhibition and preservation equipment, required for a museum of this complex
character, is being built into the building to accommodate the initial installations
and also to provide flexibility to permit the museum to adjust its exhibits and
collections to keep pace with the future development of the country and its
technology.

Wide column spacing with nonbearing dividing walls, under-floor ducts to
earry light and power wires will allow changes in the arrangement of exhibits.
A ceiling design is used which will permit room lighting as well as the accent
lighting of large objects. These lights can be changed economically when new
exhibits are put into place. These are among the features which will provide
for the continuing efficient use of the building. Latest exhibition techniques will
be used to make the collections meaningful to the public. Recorded spoken
descriptions of the outstanding objects will be transmitted electronically to ear-
phones worn by visitors who wish to avail themselves of the most detailed
information. Television camera cables are being built-in to faciliate the broad-
casting of educational programs originating in the exhibition halls, thereby adding
to the usefulness of the collections. The architects have projected the Smith-
sonian Institution’s broad experience with extensive collections and large crowds
of museum visitors into a coordinated plan designed to receive and direct
visitors smoothly and comfortably through the very extensive exhibit areas.

The building will have five floors and a basement. Two of the three exhibition
floors have entrances at the grade levels of the adjacent streets. On the two
floors above the main exhibition floors are workrooms for the curatorial staff and
space to house the very large reserve collections of the Smithsonian in the fields
of history and technology. These reserve collections will be open to examination
by the thousands of visitors who come to the Smithsonian with special interests
and by research students, historians, collectors, and writers who wish to study
them. The basement will contain maintenance shops and laboratories for the

609091—61——_2
10 U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1961

preservation and renovation of the great variety of priceless objects in the col-
lections. Here also will be public exhibits of mining history and technology.

The space and equipment for these varied and specialized museum functions
have been thoughtfully planned by the staff of the Smithsonian and by the archi-
tects and have been enclosed in an exterior building form which has been favor-
ably described as of a contemporary design which nevertheless retains classic
proportions appropriate to the building’s location on the Mall.

Through the death of James Kellum Smith, distinguished architect
and sole surviving partner of McKim, Mead and White, the Smith-
sonian Institution suffered the loss of a dedicated friend and adviser.
The firm was dissolved, but the architects long associated with the
design of the building will continue to advise the Smithsonian as
members and associates of the new firm of Steinman, Cain and White.

The firm of Mills, Petticord and Mills, associate architects of the
building, are supervising the construction of the building for the
General Services Administration. Commander Harold L. Haworth,
USN (Ret.) is the resident engineer, in charge.

Mr. Henry Norair, president of Norair Engineering Corporation,
died April 12, 1961. Mr. Norair, as the principal of the firm construet-
ing the building, had devoted close personal attention to the work. Mr.
Richard Norair succeeded as president of the firm and Mr. T. H.
Maichek, vice-president, is continuing as project manager for the
building.

Mr. John E. Cudd, haison architect of the Public Buildings Serv-
ice, General Services Administration, continued to contribute his
sound architectural judgment and skills to the resolution of many
questions arising out of the work. Mr. A. R. Eno, supervisory en-
gineer, has observed the day-to-day progress of the construction for
the Smithsonian Institution and has assisted skillfully in the solution
of many problems developing out of job conditions.

Funds Allotted

From the funds appropriated by Congress to carry on the operations
of the Smithsonian Institution and its bureaus during the fiscal year
1961, the sum of 54,067,542 was obligated by the United States Na-
tional Museum for the preservation, increase, and study of the national
collections of anthropological, zoological, botanical, and geological
materials, as well as materials illustrative of engineering, technology,
industry, graphic arts, and history (this amount includes sums
expended for the program of exhibits modernization ).
Exhibits

The systematic, museum-wide program for the modernization of
exhibits moved steadily forward during the year. Three large ex-
hibition halls in the Natural History building were renovated and
reopened to the public—the hall of fossil plants and invertebrates,
the hall of fossil mammals, and the first of the two halls of North
American archeology. At the end of this eighth year of the continu-
ing modernization program nine of the fifteen galleries on the first
floor and four second-floor halls had been renovated and opened to
public view. Each hall has presented distinct problems in exhibition
because of the different subject matter interpreted in each. However,
each renovated gallery reveals marked improvements in the organiza-
tion of topics, in the attractiveness of presentation, and in the sim-
plicity of labeling that combine to make it a much more effective
educational medium than was the series of exhibits that occupied the
hall prior to modernization. In each hall appear selected newly pre-
pared or acquired specimens which help to provide a better rounded
interpretation of the field of science represented in the gallery.

Museum director Albert C. Smith assumed the chairmanship of the
committee coordinating and supervising the modernization of natural
history exhibits following the retirement of Herbert Friedmann, head
curator of zoology. Dr. Friedmann had served with distinction as
a member of the exhibits planning committee since its inception in
1950, and had played an active and substantial role in the organization
and development of the exhibits modernization program.

The major objective of the exhibits program of the Museum of
History and Technology, which is being coordinated by assistant
director John C. Ewers, is the development of exhibits for the new
building now under construction. However, many exhibits destined
for future display in the new museum are being installed in the Arts
and Industries building until the Museum of History and Technology
is ready to receive them. During the year a hall of monetary history
and a hall of petroleum were installed, the series of exhibits on the
textiles gallery was completed, extensive additions were made to the
exhibits in medicine, dentistry, and pharmacy, and other new displays
were placed on view in various locations in the Arts and Industries
building.

Exhibits for a number of halls in the new building were prepared
in the laboratory and carefully stored until they can be installed in

11
12 U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1961

that museum. These included displays for the halls of costumes,
political history, ceramics, everyday life in the American past, physics,
railroads, Armed Forces history, and ordnance. Full scale period in-
teriors and/or miniature groups also were prepared for the halls of
tools, hight machinery, civil engineering, the growth of the United
States, and the First Ladies hall. Renovation of historic machines,
tools, weapons, vehicles, musical instruments, costumes, and textiles
progressed in the museum workshops, and the specification and con-
struction of models of such large objects as ships, locomotives, and
machine tools for exhibition in the new museum continued.

Exhibits chief John E. Anglim continued to provide overall supervi-
sion of the design of exhibition halls and the design and preparation
of exhibits for the entire museum. The exhibits work for the Museum
of History and Technology was supervised by Benjamin W. Lawless,
with the assistance of Robert Widder in design, Bela S. Bory in
production, and Robert Klinger in the model shop. Rolland O.
Hower, assisted by Thomas Baker and Julius Tretick, supervised the
renovation of exhibition halls in the Museum of Natural History.
The design of the renovated halls in existing buildings has been
greatly aided by Richard S. Johnson, design branch chief, and John
H. Morrissey, architectural branch chief of the architectural and
structural division of the Public Buildings Service, General Services
Administration, and by Luther H. Flouton, Charles J. Nora, and
Julius J. Dickerson, design architects of that agency. Carroll Lusk,
museum hehting specialist of Syracuse, N.Y., provided valuable con-
sultative assistance to designers of exhibition halls for the Museum
of History and Technology. Joseph G. Weiner, with the assistance
of Constance Minkin, Basil Andronicos, and Edna Owens, continued
the editing of the curators’ drafts of exhibit labels.

The exhibits staff continued to provide timely cooperation to other
branches of the Smithsonian Institution. Personnel of the Museum of
Mistory and Technology laboratory completed the preparation and
installation of exhibits in the Air and Space building. These ex-
hibits were designed by James Mahoney in cooperation with director
Philip S. Hopkins and the members of his curatorial staff. Ma. Ma-
honey also designed the temporary exhibition “Contemporary Ameri-
can Ceramics” organized by the American Craftsman’s Council and
circulated in Europe by the United States Information Agency, which
was displayed in the Natural History building May 29 through June
30, 1961. Robert W. Widder designed the installation of a special
exhibition, “Chinese Art Treasures,” sponsored by the Government
of the Republe of China, which opened in the National Gallery of Art
on May 27. The staff of the Museum of Natural History laboratory
assisted the National Collection of Fine Arts in the design and in-
stallation of a temporary exhibition, “Art and Archeology of Viet
At opening of special exhibit of art and archeology of Vietnam, Ambas-
sador and Mrs. Tran Van Chuong examine Vietnamese artifacts with
Director Remington Kellogg and Thomas M. Beggs, director of the
National Collection of Fine Arts, Smithsonian Institution.

Nam” (October 27—December 8, 1960), and assisted the Smithsonian
Traveling Exhibition Service in the preparation of four temporary
exhibitions in the foyer of the Natural History building, entitled
“Folk Art from Rumania” (July 16—August 7, 1960), “Two Centuries
of Danish Deep Sea Research” (October 14-November 13, 1960),
“The World of Werner Bischoff” (February 11-March 5, 1961), and
“The New Theatre in Germany” (May 6-28, 1961).

Anthropology

The first of two modernized halls of North American archeology
was opened to the public on June 24, 1961. A number of the 34
exhibits in this hall pertray and explain important aspects of aborigi-
nal North American life—Indian methods of mining and quarrying,
techniques of making tools, weapons and other useful objects of stone,

13
14 U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1961

various uses of tobacco, Indian food crops and their cultivation.
Metal and glass objects found in archeological sites show the in-
fluence of these trade materiais upon Indian culture during the historic
period. About half the exhibits in the hall interpret the prehistoric
cultures of the North American Arctic, the North Pacific Coast, Cali-
forma, and the Southwest by means of selected artifacts, graphic
materials, life-sized and miniature groups. The remarkable skill of
the prehistoric peoples in arts and crafts 1s shown through the display
of such examples as small ivory carvings of the Old Bering Sea
Culture, large wood carvings of the Aleutian Islands, and basketry
and pottery made by Indians of the Southwest. The exhibits in this
hall were planned by curator Waldo R. Wedel, and the architectural
design of the hall was prepared by exhibits designer Peter DeAnna.

Other prehistoric cultures of North America will be interpreted
in adjoining hall 22, the contract remodeling of which was completed
early in the year. Curator of archeology Waldo R. Wedel began
planning the detailed contents of the exhibits in this hall.

Associate curator Gus W. Van Beek, in collaboration with exhibits
designer Ann Karras, initiated planning for the modernization of the
Old World archeology exhibits. These will present a synopsis of
prehistoric cultures and the high cultures of the ancient Near East
and Mediterranean Basin.

Contract construction in the hall which will house renovated ex-
hibits on the life of the peoples of the Pacific Islands and South
and Southeast Asia was completed in May. Curator Saul Riesenberg
wrote a number of the exhibit unit scripts, and designer Dorothy
Guthrie began the design of displays for this hall. The adjacent
hall, which will contain the revised exhibits on the peoples of Africa
and Eastern Asia, was cleared of all old fixtures and new construction
was begun. When this hall is reopened, all four ethnological halls
in the museum will have been completely renovated and modernized.

During the year associate curator of ethnology Eugene I. Knez
made a field trip te Asia to collect contemporary ethnological mate-
rial for exhibition in these halls. With the assistance of scholars and
officials, material was acquired from Pakistan, India, Burma, Cam-
bodia, Viet-Nam, Hong Kong, Taiwan, Korea, and Japan. In certain
countries of Southeast Asia where local scholars have not concerned
themselves particularly with the ethnology of their own people, French
scientists of the Ecole Francaise d’Extréme Orient assigned to these
areas are rendering valuable assistance. Because the Chinese main-
land is inaccessible, the resources of Hong Kong and Taiwan are being
used as far as possible in acquiring Chinese collections. An inte-
erated village exhibit including specimens, sketches, and documenta-

tion needed to present a particular theme has been received from West
EXHIBITS LS

Pakistan. The Korean Government has agreed to loan for exhibit
a rare iron Buddha of the Koryo Dynasty.

Associate curator Gordon D. Gibson, presently engaged in an
African field study, is collecting ethnological materials for specific
exhibits in hall 7.

In order to provide space for the storage of materials removed
from hall 7, 1t became necessary to remove from exhibition and store
all the semipublic displays of the division of physical anthropology
on the third floor. Among these are: trephining, cranial deformity,
criteria for sexual identification of the skeleton, relationship of size
of longbone to stage of tooth eruption, and morphological variations
in bones.

Zoology

Curatorial planning of exhibits for the large hall of oceanic life,
now under construction, comprised the major exhibits project of the
department during the year. Acting head curator Fenner A. Chace,
Jr., succeeded Dr. Herbert Friedmann as coordinator of the planning
for this hall upon the latter’s retirement. All members of the curatorial
staffs of the divisions of fishes, marine invertebrates, and mollusks
were actively engaged in this project, and those of the divisions of
mammals, and of reptiles and amphibians were to some extent in-
volved. Development of this hall requires the preparation of hun-
dreds of lifelike models, for which detailed specifications must be
drawn up by curatorial staff members from figures in the literature,
preserved specimens in the collections, color slides of living or recently
collected material, and from aquarium specimens.

Four field trips have been made to collect materials and photo-
graphs for this hall. Dr. Joseph P. EK. Morrison and James Watson
collected near Ocean Springs, Miss., and Beaufort, N.C., from
May 14 to June 15, 1960, to obtain specimens and- data for the
marshy shore and sandy beach groups. Charles E. Cutress, Jr., and
Raymond E. Hays visited Cape Arago, Oreg., between August
29 and September 25, 1960, collecting for the Pacific coast rocky
shore and tidepool habitat group. Dr. Frederick M. Bayer and
Anthony DiStefano conducted field work at Soldier Key off Miami,
Fla., from September 6 to October 12, 1960, in connection with
the coral shore group. Dr. Morrison and Thomas G. Baker were
in New Caledonia from November 16, 1960, to February 22, 1961,
gathering material and information for the coral reef exhibit. Mr.
Baker succeeded Chris Karras as designer responsible for the ex-
hibition in this hall.

Several meetings of the curatorial and exhibits staffs were held
during the year to determine the general themes of the hall of
osteology and the hall of cold-blooded vertebrates.
16 U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1961

An effort will be made to place upon exhibition, either in the hall
of oceanic life or in the hall of cold-blooded vertebrates, fishes of
near record size, especially those of interest to sportsmen and com-
mercial fishermen. This project was materially enhanced when Mr.
Al Pflueger of North Miami, Fla., donated five beautifully finished
casts and one unfinished cast of fishes in that category. Four of the
finished casts are now on exhibition: a wahoo, 77 inches long; a green
moray, 74 inches; a dolphin, 63 inches; and a Franklin D. Roosevelt
Atlantic sailfish that weighed 140 pounds. .Of special interest is an
unfinished cast of a swordfish, 14 feet, 1114 inches long and weigh-
ing 1,182 pounds, the largest one so far recorded. Mr. Warren F.
Rathjen of the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service transferred to the
national collections a western Atlantic blue marlin that measured
12 feet, 3 inches—only 9 inches shorter than the known record for
this species. Casts of the swordfish and blue marlin, when com-
pleted, will be placed upon exhibition. Another interesting model,
the unique deep-sea anglerfish Galatheathauma axeli, with a
luminous area inside its mouth, was donated by the Universitets
Zoologiske Museum, Copenhagen.

Curator Harald A. Rehder prepared a temporary exhibition,
“The World of Shells,” for display in Museum of Natural History
foyer during June for the 28th annual meeting of the American
Malacological Union, June 20 to 23, 1961. Part of this exhibit will
later be placed on permanent display on the second floor of the
museum.

Before his retirement, Dr. Herbert Friedmann completed the
manuscript for a guidebook to the hall devoted to “Birds of the
World,” and the color and black-and-white photographs to illustrate
this booklet were taken. This is the first guidebook to a renovated
hall in the Museum of Natural History to be prepared.

Geology

Three renovated halls of fossils at the east end of the first floor
of the Natural History building were formally opened to the public
on June 6, 1961. They are designed to show the story of hfe through
the ages from the earliest known fossils, dated 1,600 million years ago,
to the great mammalian fauna of the Cenozoic Era.

The hall of fossil plants and invertebrate animals is divided into
four alcoves, the first of which shows what fossils are, what animals
have been found as fossils, how animals become entombed in rocks,
and how the geological time scale was formed. The second alcove
contains a synoptic exhibit of fossil plants featuring a case on the
coal-forming species. The third provides an exhibition of fossil back-
boneless animals showing the progression in time of the sponges,
In this exhibit, added to the hali of fossil fishes, the lower Permian
flesh-eater Dimetrodon is attacking Edaphosaurus, a primitive mam-
mal-like reptile that lived some 220 million years ago in the Texas
area.

corals, snails, clams, trilobites, and other ancient shelled creatures.
A case of “Giants of the Past,” displaying some of the largest known
invertebrate fossils, 1s of special interest. The fourth alcove comprises
a series of dioramas depicting ancient sea bottoms for each of the
Paleozoic systems and for the Cretaceous of the Mesozoic, with their
colorful forms reconstructed to appear as they were in life. The
diorama of the Pennsylvanian system is the only one of its kind,
depicting a marine environment rather than the coal swamp environ-
ment portrayed in reconstructions in many other museums. This hall
was developed under the scientific supervision of curator G. Arthur
Cooper with the assistance of exhibits designer Gorman Bond.

The hall of fossil fishes had been informally reopened in June 1960.
However, a life-sized group, completed this year, showing a conflict be-
tween two kinds of pelycosaurs, or fin-backed reptiles, as 1t might have
happened about 260 million years ago, adds interest to this hall.

The third hall, the age of mammals in North America, is divided into
five general areas, one for each of the epochs of Tertiary time from

il7/
Fauna and flora of middle Eocene in the Wyoming area, first of four
murals, depicting different epochs, being painted by Museum artist
Jay H. Matternes.

Paleocene to Pliocene, a period of (0 million years. Skeletons rep-
resenting the better-known groups of mammals are supplemented by
a display of skulls for each of the epochs. Enlarged photographs show
field localities where some of these fossils were found. The large
mural by Mr. Jay H. Matternes, depicting a mammalian assemblage
with associated reptiles and plants of the Bridger middle Eocene,
was completed. A second mural, showimg a Harrisonian, or early
Miocene, life group, is nearly finished. Two additional murals
portraying assemblages of characteristic mammals of other epochs
will appear in this hall. Curator C. Lewis Gazin and exhibits designer
Ann Karras collaborated closely in the development of this hall.
Architects’ plans for renovating the hall in which are displayed
the dinosaurs and the Mesozoic reptiles were completed and the con-

18
EXHIBITS 19

Largest North American land mammal of the Oligocene, 35—40 million
years ago, was the Brontotherium, last of the titanotheres. On the
wall behind visitors are examples of even-toed ungulates (hoofed
mammals) of the Oligocene.

Ancestral forms of odd-toed ungulates (left to right: tapir, horse, rhi-
noceros, titanothere) of the middle Eocene, about 50 million years
ago. The Titanothere family is now extinct.

20 U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1961

The Eocene whale Basilosaurus cetoides, from Alabama, in the newly
reconditioned hall of fossil mammals.

struction contract was let in June. The layout of exhibits was de-
signed by Ann Karras under the scientific supervision of associate
curator Nicholas Hotton III. This hall was closed to the public in
March. All the wall exhibits were taken down and the larger skeletons
were grouped together in the center for protective casing, prior to new
construction work. Most of the smaller specimens have been tem-
porarily stored, as have most of the already mounted Pleistocene
mammals.

Because of the necessarily long period of time during which the
dinosaur and Pleistocene animal halls will be closed, a selection of
these animals of popular interest has been moved to the rotunda for
display.

A temporary meteorite exhibit was placed in the areaway connecting
the jade room and the renovated North American archeology hall
21 on the second floor. Planned and installed under the direction of
associate curator Edward P. Henderson with the collaboration of
exhibits designer James Piper, this exhibition was opened to the public
on June 24, 1961.

The laboratory staff of the Department of Geology performed much
of its work inthe exhibit halls during the year. However, preparation
in the laboratory has progressed on the re-embedding in plaster, rein-
forcement and repreparation of the agate slab of Miocene mammal
remains and the further preparation of reptilian materials, such
as the plesiosaur, phytosaur, and mosasaur, which have required re-
mounting and other changes.
EXHIBITS Dil

Science and Technology

During the year sixteen new exhibits interpreting the history of
medicine, dentistry, and pharmacy were instailed on the east gallery
of the Arts and Industries building, bringing the total] of modernized
exhibits in the field of medical science to twenty-eight. Designed by
Ronald Elbert and Fred Craig from scripts prepared by curator John
B. Blake and associate curator Sami K. Hamarneh, these cases illus-
trate the practice of bloodletting through the ages, the development
of surgical anesthesia, spectacles, medicine chests, antique drug jars,
tools of the apothecary, and dental instruments. The exhibits were
planned for the future halls of the Museum of History and
Technology.

Dr. Blake completed the scripts for the remaiming exhibits in medi-
eal and dental history for the Museum of History and Technology,
and the design of these units was begun in May. Dr. Hamarneh
thoroughly revised the scripts for additional case units for the hall
of pharmacy and provided technical supervision for the restoration
and trial erection of an 1890 period drug store which will be a feature
exhibit of this hall in the new museum. A new exhibit on the eye was
installed in the hall of health.

Under the scientific direction of head curator Robert P. Multhauf,
the design of exhibits for the hall of physics and astronomy by Benja-
min W. Lawless and Ronald Elbert and for the hall of chemistry by
Barbara Bowes progressed steadily during the year. Production of
exhibits in the sections devoted to early physical science and classical
physics was begun May 1 and a dozen units were completed by the end
of June. <A special exhibition of the “geophysical globe,” a new reliet
globe of superior accuracy, was held in the rotunda of the Arts and
Industries building during April.

Acting curator W. James King continued the detailed planning of
exhibits for the hall of electricity with the assistance of consultants
Robert A. Chipman of the University of Toledo, Guenter Schwarz
of Florida State University, and Haraden Pratt, Secretary of the In-
stitute of Radio Engineers. A diorama prepared for exhibition in this
hall of the new building, depicting the broadeast of a program from
the studio of KDKA (one of the pioneer commercial broadcasting
stations in the world) during the winter of 1921-22, was placed on
pubhe display.

Curator Howard I. Chapelle continued the preparation of scripts
for the watercraft hall. An exhibition case was designed which pro-
vides a unique and flexible system for the display of ship models of
varying sizes and weights. A large percentage of the ship models in
the collections have been restored and replaced in the cases in the exist-
ing watercraft hall, giving that area a cleaner and neater appearance.
2D, U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1961

Exhibits worker installing display of early medical X-ray equipment
in hall of medical sciences.

Among the 16 new medical science exhibits were displays tracing the
early development of antibiotics and the history of pill making.

EXHIBITS 23

New ship models prepared for the historical series in the new museum
have been placed on exhibition as soon as they are received. A special
exhibition, featuring the model of the 1819 steamship Savannah, was
presented in the watercraft hall in celebration of National Maritime
Week, May 21-27.

Associate curator John H. White, Jr., wrote scripts for the railroad
hall, and these were used by exhibits designers James Mahoney and
Virginia Kneitel in designing units for the street railway and locomo-
tive sections of the hall. Production of street railway exhibits was
begun in May. The locomotive Pioneer, which served the Cumberland

Diorama of radio broadcasting studio of the early 1920’s, complete
with wind-up phonograph, was added to displays of early history

of electronics.

Valley Railroad in 1851, was placed on exhibition in the east hall in
February, and the cable car was removed for restoraticn prior to its
exhibition in the new building. New locomotive and street car models
have replaced old and inaccurate ones, and a scale model of the Norris
Locomotive Works has been added to the east hall exhibits.

Curator Eugene S. Ferguson wrote the exhibits script, collected
major specimens, and prepared specifications for models and dioramas
for the hall of tools of the Museum of History and Technology. The
design of exhibits for this hall by Harry Hart and Bright Springman
is nearing completion. Adequate equipment for a pre-Civil War ma-
chine shop was obtained after a search extending over four years,
and the systematic restoration of machine tools and other objects for
the hall of tools is going forward at an accelerated pace. Two land-
mark machine tools of 1865-1875, completely restored and made
operative by William Henson, were placed on exhibition in the south-
24 U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1961

west gallery of the Arts and Industries building. The first, a Brown
and Sharpe No. 1 universal milling machine, is set up to mill the
flutes of twist drills, one of the first operations undertaken by this
type of machine. The other tool, a Jones & Lamson turret lathe,
is equipped with authentically reconstructed turret tools to produce
brass oil cups. Mr. Henson carried out the extensive research required
for the restoration of these tools.

Design was completed on the section of the hall of civil engineering
devoted to the history of tunneling, and preparation of study models
for eight scale models illustrating the development of soft ground and
rock tunneling methods was also completed under the technical direc-
tion of associate curator Robert M. Vogel. A temporary exhibition of
fine prints, drawings and photographs of 18th- and 19th-century civil
engineering works, planned by Mr. Vogel, was displayed from Febru-
ary 1 to April 30 in the rotunda of the Arts and Industries building.

Associate curator Edwin A. Battison continued to collect specimens
and to direct the restoration of intricate watch-making machinery and
other objects for exhibition im the hall of light machinery. For ex-
hibits in this hall he perfected scripts which are being designed by
Fred Craig. A particularly attractive display of decorative watches
was installed in the hall of timekeeping by Mrs. Dorothy Briggs, who
restored the watch and clock cases as well. Through the efforts of Mr.
Battison, the Schlage antique lock collection was shown for a period
of two months in the rotunda of the Arts and Industries building:
and three interesting automaton figures—a draftsman, a penman, and
an organist—from the Museum of Neuchatel, Switzerland, brought
to this country by Professor Edmond Droz, were publicly exhibited
from May 1 to May 14.

Arts and Manufactures

The modernized petroleum exhibit, which adjoins the iron and
steel exhibit in the Arts and Industries building, was opened to the
public in June. It provides a brief historical account of the growth of
the petroleum industry since the discovery of the Drake well at Titus-
ville, Pennsylvania, in 1859.

The exhibit is introduced by an illustration of ancient uses of
natural asphalt, and animated models showing the two earliest meth-
ods of drilling used in the United States: the spring-pole and the
Drake rig. A section of Drake’s drive pipe displayed with the models
provides a direct link with this historic enterprise. One of the few
surviving bottles of Kier’s petroleum recalls that use as a medicine pre-
ceded its application to lighting and Inbrication. Some of the prob-
EXHIBITS DS

Modernized petroleum exhibit, with original experimental model of
Burton-Humphreys still. This thermal-cracking process, introduced
in 1913, made it possible for the industry to meet demand for gaso-
line resulting from mass production of automobiles.

Gasoline, a waste product of kerosene refining in the early days of
the petroleum industry, was once turned into heating fuel by means
of the Springfield gas generator, right.

609091—61

5
oa)

26 U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1961

lems of the kerosene era are presented, and an early use of the by-
product gases is indicated in the form of a Gilbert and Barker gas-
machine, in use until the 1940’s in a school laboratory.

A small display of geophysical exploration equipment, made possi-
ble by the generosity of Seismos GmbH., Humble Oil Company, Con-
tinental Oil Company, Schlumberger, and Mr. Everett Lee DeGolyer,
Jr., reviews the principal methods employed to expand the knowledge
of America’s oil resources. The first well to be drilled off-shore (Cre-
ole No. 1) is shown in the form of a model presented by the Pure Oil
Company.

With the cooperation of Standard Oil Company (Indiana), Uni-
versal Oil Products Company, Esso Standard Oil Company, M. W.
Kellogg Company, Mr. C. P. Dubbs, and the Massachusetts Institute
of Technology (Prof. Harold Weber), an account of the major de-
developments in oil refining is presented by means of full-scale
equipment and models accompanied by explanatory flow charts.

The climax of “refining” prior to the automobile era is commem-
orated by a museum-designed model of a cheese-box still. The
experimental still used by Drs. Burton and Humphries at Whiting,
Indiana, which led to the first large-scale thermal cracking of crude,
was graciously donated to the museum by Dr. Robert Wilson. The
Dubbs clean-circulation process, representative of major developments
in cheaper refining after World War I, is shown in a contemporary
model. A model of a polymerization plant shows one of the earliest
processes for increasing the high octane content of gasoline, one that
was important in making fuel available for the allied air forces in
1939-1940. The historic fluid-catalytic cracking process, evolved in
1941 to provide the vast quantities of fuel needed by the U.S. Air
Force, is also shown. Finally, a platinum-catalyst reforming process
is demonstrated as a sample of the post-war effort to convert lower-
grade to higher-grade fuel.

The importance of natural gas is brought out in a graphic explana-
tion of the use of exhausted oil-measures for reserve storage. A mod-
ern highway, in model form, draws attention to the fact that asphalt
is now a product of the petroleum refineries. The American Gas As-
sociation and the Asphalt Institute have collaborated with the museum
in the preparation of these exhibits.

This hall was planned by head curator Philip W. Bishop in coopera-
tion with exhibits designers Thaddeus McDowell, Riddick Vann, and
Benjamin W. Lawless, assistant chief of exhibits.

Other exhibits will be added to those in this hall to expand the
interpretation of the story of petroleum in the new museum. <A large
map of the United States portraying the growth of production and
EXHIBITS 2h

reserves and the development of various means of transportation of
gas and crude oil is under construction. This map is the gift of the
American Petroleum Institute.

Renovation of the textile exhibits was completed with the opening
of the third and last section of the textile hall gallery to the public on
December 9, 1960. This section presents the origin and history of
lace-making and rug-making, and displays popular types of American
needlework. Among these, old American quilts are shown in an
automatic case equipped with a selector dial, permitting the exhibition
of ten quilts in a space previously required for two. The quilts are
exposed to heht for a brief viewing time, which can be set at a master
control point.

Over 100 samplers dating from the 18th and 19th centuries are
exhibited in specially designed pull-out frames so that the fragile
fabrics are protected from fading when not being viewed. Also dis-
played are a fine collection of laces, from 16th-century drawn-work to
machine-made laces of the 19th century, and examples of both hand
and machine netting techniques.

Two temporary exhibits are of particular interest. One shows 27
lace and needlework handkerchiefs of the 19th century selected from
the permanent collections. The other, on loan from Mr. Cornelius
Roosevelt, includes an excellent embroidered wall hanging made by
his mother, Mrs. Theodore Roosevelt, Jr., an accomplished needle-
woman. This colorful embroidery depicts one scene from the fairy
tale of the Golden Cockerel. With it is shown an incomplete com-
panion piece on the embroidery frame, made by her son, which Mrs.
Roosevelt used.

Preparation and installation of the lace and needlework was carried
out under the direction of associate curator Grace L. Rogers by staff
member Doris Bowman, assisted by summer interne Barbara Shafritz.
The exhibits were designed by Robert Widder.

These new textile exhibits, with additional permanent exhibits and
temporary displays, will be installed in the Museum of History and
Technology.

Pre-installation display preparation for the hall of graphic arts
has been completed. The John I. Wells hand press was refurbished
and the bed support, rounce (or winch), and attendant leather pulley
system were overhauled and repaired. Associate curator Eugene N.
Ostroff reviewed and began rewriting the scripts for the exhibits of
the hall of photography, which will include both working models and
historic specimens. Because the exhibition area for photography in
the Arts and Industries building was being revised, no special photo-
graphic exhibits were held during the year.
28 U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1961

Six special exhibits in graphic arts were shown:

20th-century color wood- 20 prints from the col- July 1—-September 11,
cuts lection 1960
Prints by Alfred Sessler 20 prints in various September 12—October
media 31, 1960
Prints by Arthur Thrall 20 prints in yarious November 1, 1960—Janu-
media ary 3, 1961
Lithographs and draw- 18 prints January 4-February 28,
ings by Prentiss 1961
Taylor
Prints by Sheila Isham 16 prints in various March 1—May 1, 1961
media
Prints of the 16th cen- 23 prints in various May 2-June 30, 1961
tury media, from the col-
lection

Production of exhibits for the hall of ceramics was begun in the
laboratory during January. The exhibit contents were specified by
associate curator Paul V. Gardner and the designs prepared by Mrs.
Dorothy Guthrie.

Theodore A. Randall, head of the department of design, New York
State College of Ceramics, Alfred, N.Y., continued as a consultant for
the division of ceramics. A competition for the design of a fountain,
and for a decorative wall grill for the hall of ceramics, is being held
among the students at the College. Contracts were awarded for two
architectural features for the hall of glass, a stained glass entrance
panel and an intaglo design in plate glass representing a glass blower.

Important recent accessions by the division of ceramics and glass
have been featured in exhibits in the Natural History building.

An experimental fuel-cell tractor developed by the Allis-Chalmers
Manufacturing Company was placed on display in the hall of farm
machinery in October. Throughout the year a rotating exhibition of
color photographs lent by the Soil Conservation Service of the U.S.
Department of Agriculture was maintained at the east end of this
hall. The preliminary script for the hall of wood products completed
by consultant Carl Rischell, was studied by associate curator E. C.
Kendall and exhibits designer Riddick Vann as a basis for developing
a layout of exhibits.

Provisional exhibit scripts for the halls of nuclear energy, iron and
steel, and mining were prepared during the year by the division of
manufactures and heavy industries, and head curator Philip W. Bishop
and associate curator Charles O. Houston, Jr., carried forward nego-
tiations intensively throughout the year with the industrial firms and
trade associations whose aid is essential to the development of the
exhibits.
EXHIBITS 29
Civil History

A completely renovated hall of monetary history and medallic art
was formally opened in the Arts and Industries building on March 18,
1961, in the presence of the Secretary of the Treasury, the Under
Secretary of the Treasury, Senator Clinton P. Anderson, Representa-
tive Frank T. Bow, Regents of the Smithsonian Institution, members
of the diplomatic corps, donors, collectors, and representatives of
numismatic organizations from all sections of the country. The cen-
tral series of 19 specially designed cases traces the major aspects of
the development of money economy from primitive barter to the
establishment of our modern monetary systems. The series relates
the evolution of money, an integral part of the cultural development
of human society, to a sequence of significant historical events. Thus
the coins, tokens, and paper currencies are made more meaningful to
nonspecialists than would be their display in the conventional classifi-
cations of the numismatist. Special emphasis is given to the develop-
ment of the various forms of currencies in North America and their
role in the economic and political growth of the United States. Table
cases of topical displays on “The Origin of Coim Names,” “The Re-
formation,” “Confederate Currencies,” and “State Bank Notes” com-
plete the monetary history section of this hall. A reconstruction of
the coin-stamper designed by the renowned Italian artist and inventor,
Leonardo da Vinei (1452-1519), which marked the introduction of
mechanization in coining techniques, occupies a prominent position
in the hall.

A significant section of this hall is devoted to the United States
Mint collection, the oldest collection of coins owned by the govern-
ment. The hall also features the world’s largest collection of gold
coins on public display, a type collection of 1,850 gold coins of Europe
and the Americas given to the Smithsonian Institution by the late
Paul A. Straub. Almost 4,000 silver coins complement this series.

The small size and considerable value of the coins, as well as the
danger of damage to paper money from fading, present special prob-
Jems in the museum display of these materials. The 19 upright cases
containing the history of money displays have internal lighting of the
cold cathode variety. The light boxes are equipped with specially
designed Lucite (methacrylate) lenses which insure even light dis-
tribution within the cases and at the same time filter some of the
more damaging radiations. The coins are placed whenever possible
in tightly closed boxes made of clear cellulcse triacetate K TV which
are in turn attached to the display panel with small Velcro dises or
strips, facilitating the removal of coins for study purposes and re-
placement of coins on display.
30 U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1961

>

ee

BS ™ r pam ae

Modernized display of the national numismatic collection in the Arts
and Industries building. These and other exhibits now stored will
comprise the hall of monetary history, in the new Museum of History
and Technology, and will trace the history of money and its uses from
earliest times. Coin-stamping machine (below, left), built from
15th-century designs by Leonardo da Vinci, marks the beginning of
modern coinage techniques.

ae
i i\’ ao > 4

EXHIBITS 31

Displays of money from other countries and other times add meaning
and perspective to the exhibits of U.S. currency.

All paper currencies are protected by Plexiglas G, 4% inch un-
shrunk, which has ultra-violet absorbency of 100 percent at 3830+
millimicrons. The windows of the hall itself are covered with filters
having a hght transmission of only 8 percent.

The completion of this hall would not have been possible without
the assistance of many public and private institutions and organiza-
tions as well as most generous gifts from numerous private citizens
of the United States. The exhibits were planned and thew prepara-
tion supervised by Mrs. Elvira Clain-Stefanelli, associate curator of
numismatics. They were designed by Harry Hart.

A special exhibit featuring 250 masterpieces of ancient Greek
coinage, prepared by Mrs. Clain-Stefanelli from material loaned by
ay U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1961

RET REGULAR ECA ORME

FIRS Conve conte: Hue LVR 19st:

eseeee OG

US. CGIN: DESIGNS

dees nee

The U.S. Mint was founded in 1791, and the national numismatic col-
lection was started soon after, at Philadelphia, site of the first mint.

a private collector, was displayed from December 1960 to March 11,
1961, in the rotunda of the Arts and Industries building and from
March 18 to May 26, 1961, in the monetary history hall. It included
outstanding examples marking the evolution of Greek coinage from
the 7th to the 2d centuries B.C. Beginning June 21, 1961, two cases
featuring “Paper Currencies of the World” were put on display.
The division of numismatics also contributed special exhibits to the
National Numismatic Convention in Boston, August 24-27, 1960.

Under the supervision of curator Wilcomb E. Washburn, aided by
designer Robert Widder, the greater part of the pre-installation dis-
play preparation for the hall of American politics has been completed
by the exhibits laboratory. Several temporary topical exhibits were
EXHIBITS 33

RISE OF MODERN AMERICA, 1873-1900

Fartient syste bob
eorauasant 2 yd

The national collection today has examples of practically every type
of money ever issued by the U.S. Government.

arranged by the division of political history. An inaugural exhibit

was displayed from December 1960 to March 1961, and during the
same period state gifts presented to President Eisenhower were shown.
Early voting machines and presidential commemorative material were
exhibited during February 1961.

Associate curator Margaret Brown Klapthor completed the ex-
hibits scripts for the new First Ladies hall, and all labels for these
exhibits were edited. Restoration of two Washington period rooms
progressed, and the sketch model was approved for a diorama portray-
ing Dolley Madison removing furnishings from the White House
during the War of 1812. Studies of possible modifications in the
treatment of mannequins for the First Ladies hall were pursued in
the laboratory. During the year the White House china collection
34 U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1961

was expanded so that representative pieces from almost every ad-
ministration are now on exhibition.

Production of exhibits for the hall of costumes was continued and
over 80 per cent of the units for this hall were completed by the end
of June. Assistant curator Anne W. Murray prepared detailed
specifications for 21 mannequins to be used in the display of period
costumes.

During the year the overall layout of exhibits and design of cases
for the hall of philately and postal history were completed, and at
year’s end the graphic design of the series of exhibits to interpret the
history of the post was nearing completion. The scripts for these
exhibits were written by George T. Turner, associate curator in
charge, and assistant curator Carl H. Scheele. A selected group of
historical items from The Postal History Museum of the Post Office
Department, which was transferred to the Smithsonian Institution
April 1, was placed on exhibition in the existing philately hall. To
coincide with the issuance of a new United States stamp bearing a
likeness of the 50-star American flag, a display of stamps of foreign
nations which feature the United States flag was prepared for
July 4, 1960.

Exhibits for the hall of everyday life in the American past, planned
by curator C. Malcolm Watkins and designed by exhibits chief John
EK. Anglim, advanced to the production stage in March. By the end
of June more than 20 percent of the wall case exhibits for this large
hall were produced. Meanwhile, George H. Watson continued his
painstaking restoration of period rooms to be shown in this hall and
has thus far completed pre-installation work on eight of these projects.
On May 26, 1961, a rare American wooden statue of William Pitt,
carved in 1801 by Joseph Wilson for the eccentric “Lord” Timothy
Dexter of Newburyport, Mass., was placed on exhibition in the cul-
tural history hall. This statue, the gift of Mrs. Arthur M. Green-
wood, was restored with remarkable skill by exhibits technician Gor-
don Dentry.

Associate curator John D. Shortridge prepared exhibit scripts for
the section of keyboard instruments which will occupy the central
area of the hall of musical instruments in the Museum of History and
Technology. Architects for the building completed their design of
the architectural features of this hall, and Allyn Cox’s sketches for
the wall decorations were approved by the Fine Arts Commission,

Associate curator Peter ©. Welsh and consultant Anthony N. B.
Garvan completed the scripts for exhibits in the second of the halls
to be devoted to interpretation of the growth of the United States.
This hall covers the period 1640 to 1740 in American history. Robert
Widder made progress on the design of exhibits for the hall that
interprets the period 1750 to 1850. Mr. George Watson completed
EXHIBITS 35

restoration work on one period installation for this series of exhibits
and made marked progress in the advance preparation of two others.

From January 15 to February 5 the first public showing of the
recently acquired Harry T. Peters’ “America on Stone” lithography
collection was held in the foyer of the Natural History building.
This exhibition of more than one hundred selected prints, entitled
“The Victorian American,” subsequently was circulated by the Smith-
sonian Traveling Exhibition Service.

Armed Forces History

The development of the hall of ordnance and the series of halls
interpreting the history of our Armed Forces was a major activity of
all curators, who participated in frequent consultations with the ex-
hibit designers and model makers designing and producing exhibits
for these halls.

Head curator Mendel L. Peterson, curator Edgar M. Howell, and
associate curator Philip K. Lundeberg supplied information and
specimens to designer Fred Craig which enabled him to complete the
detailed design of units for the first third of the extensive series of
displays on the history of the Armed Forces. The program of build-
ing and restoring the warship models that will illustrate compre-
hensively the evolution of the United States man-of-war was con-
tinued, and specifications were prepared for the construction of scale
models of representative military and naval aircraft.

Following specifications prepared by associate curator Craddock hk.
Goins and his colleagues, designer John Brown completed the designs
for a considerable number of the exhibits for the hall of ordnance.
Robert Klinger, Donald Holst, Anthony Fiore, and Paul Richards of
the model shop produced for this hall an exceptionally fine series of
scale models of field, siege, and ships’ guns of the 15th through the
19th centuries. Production of panel exhibits was begun in June.

Mr. Howell, in consultation with the architects of the building,
developed detailed plans for the feature exhibit of the Star Spangled
Banner, in the rotunda of the new museum.

A complete display of United States military decorations and
medals, and a Civil War 12-pounder gun on its carriage were added to
the existing displays in the hall of military history. A number of
warship models, relating particularly to the Civil War, were added to
the exhibits in the hall of naval history, while other models were
progressively retired for major restoration, which normally involves
complete repainting and re-rigging, and frequently requires extensive
research in the interest of detailed historical accuracy.

During September a special exhibition of memorabilia of Gen. John
J. Pershing was placed on view in the rotunda of the Arts and Indus-
tries building in conjunction with the national celebration of General
36 U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1961

Pershing’s birth. Roman antiquities recovered from the Mediterra-
nean and the Sea of Galilee by the Link expedition during the previous
summer were displayed from April 1 to April 26.

The division of military history prepared a special exhibition of
military epaulets for the annual meeting of the Company of Military
Collectors and Historians, May 19-21, at Gettysburg, Pa. Naval,
military, and ordnance materials recovered from a 17th-century ship-
wreck site were displayed by the division of naval history at the same
meeting. This division also cooperated with the Department of the
Navy in providing specimens for exhibition at the Museum of Science
and Industry, Chicago, Il1., and at the Hall of State, Dallas Historical
Society, Dallas, Tex.

Union Gunboat Benton. Converted from a Mississippi River snag boat
in 1861 by James B. Eads of St. Louis, Missouri, this 202-foot iron-
clad served as flagship of the Western Flotilla which spearheaded
early Federal victories in the Mississippi Valley. Wearing the com-
mand pennant of Flag Officer Andrew Hull Foote, the Benton
mounted a battery of two IX-inch Dahlgren guns, four 42-pounders,
two 50-pounders, and eight 32-pounders, constituting the heaviest
armament in the Union flotilla. As indicated by this model (scale:
Ys inch=1 foot) recently received by the division of naval history,
the Benton consisted essentially of an armored casemate, mounted
on two narrow hulls, between which was located a paddle wheel.
Accessions
During the fiscal year 1961

During the past year accessions added 971,150 specimens to the na-
tional collections. These materials were distributed among the eight
departments as follows: anthropology, 19,764; zoology, 369,701; bot-
any, 103,160; geology, 229,676; science and technology, 4,231; arts
and manufactures, 5,521; civil history, 237,323; and armed forces his-
tory, 1,774. This total includes 228,911 stamps, 223,501 insects, and
95,102 marine invertebrates. The accessions for the most part were
received as gifts from individuals or as transfers from government
departments and agencies. A full list of donors will be found on
page 116.

Anthropology

The division of archeology received by transfer from the River
Basin Surveys 5,153 artifacts collected at numerous prehistoric sites
in South Dakota and Wyoming. Mrs. Virginia M. Pollak added to
her earlier generous donations a wooden ibis from the Ptolemaic-
Roman period of Egypt.

Dr. David C. Graham of Englewood, Colo., honorary research as-
sociate in biology, gave to the division of ethnology two scrolls written
in the Chinese and Manchurian languages and representing awards
in the years 1753 and 1868 for loyal services to the Chinese government.
From the estate of John T. Owen was received a late 19th century
Chinese four-panel, lacquer screen. The decoration thereon, showing
four birds in a natural setting, has been executed by inlaying mother-
of-pearl, rose quartz, white and stained ivory, and semiprecious stones.
Dr. F. F. Fellows, of West Linn, Oreg., presented 54 ethnological
specimens of Eskimo manufacture which he had collected at Icy Cape,
Alaska, in 1908. Dr. Leo Stoor, of Cleveland, Ohio, presented 104
smoking pipes, mainly from the Near East, India, China, and Japan.
In exchange from John H. Brandt, of New York City, came 84 Micro-
nesian ethnological objects. Among the rare specimens in this collec-
tion is a type of necklace from Yap no longer obtainable from the
natives. From the Ossining (N.Y.) Public Schools came two Pacific
Islands fishhooks, one of which, an Hawaiian circular turtle-shell
hook, was collected about 1840 and is now rare.

37
38 U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT,

1961

SPECIMENS IN THE NATIONAL COLLECTIONS MAY 31, 1961

DEPARTMENT OF ANTHROPOLOGY
Archeology
Enthnology
Physical ntnropolosy:
DEPARTMENT OF ZOOLOGY.
Mammals .
BIndSeeee é
Reptiles and svimpptaptione:
Fishes o Seo aad once
Insects. es .
Marine Tnivertepnates :
Mollusks
Helminths . :
DEPARTMENT OF BOTANY .
Phanerogams .
Ferns .
Grasses
Cryptogams .
Woods ,
DEPARTMENT OF Gronocr
Mineralogy and Petrology
Invertebrate Paleontology and palee borane
Vetebrate Paleontology :
DEPARTMENT OF SCIENCE AND Tn CaN OLO CT
Physical Sciences . ;
Mechanical and Civil etna
Electricity .
Transportation .
Medical Sciences . igs :
DEPARTMENT OF ARTS AND Nenecreenes
Textiles . : :
Ceramies and Glas ss.
Graphic Arts .
Manufactures and Heaven Tends:
Agriculture and Forest Products
DEPARTMENT OF CrviL History .
Political History
Cultural History . :
Philately and Postal ERStion :
Numismatics . ; ;
DEPARTMENT OF ARMED HODGES ‘History.
Military History
Naval History

Torat Museum COLLECTIONS .

696, 847
182, 480
37, 635

289, 847
500, 313
151, 213
1, 710, 679
14, 355, 099
1, 830, 007
9, 708, 955
48, 634

1, 890, 814
229, 375
378, 761
452, 947
21, 845

398, 446
12, 470, 611
45, 034
3, 245
9, 005
4, 230
24, 895
27, 146
33, 898
14, 847
46, 803

33, 848
10, 112

42, 962
19, 555
9, 128, 860
120, 214

37, 673
6, 970

916, 962

28, 594, 747

12, 914, 091

68, 521

139, 508

9) Slot

44, 643

54, 963, 805
ACCESSIONS 39

The collection of the American Negro skeletal remains in the ‘di-
vision of physical anthropology was increased by 14 skulls and a few
miscellaneous bones recovered by the District of Columbia Coroner,
Dr. A. Magruder MacDonald, when an abandoned cemetery near the
Calvert Street bridge in Washington was exposed in the course of
building operations. The Zoller Laboratory of Dental Anthropology
of the University of Chicago presented 11 standard models for classi-
fying crown characters of human deciduous teeth. The models, ac-
companied by an explanatory manual, were prepared by Dr. Kazuro
Hanihara, of Sapporo Medical College, Japan, and are based on a
series of 600 subjects representing various racial groups.

Zoology

Forty-two accessions added a total of 4,076 specimens to the col-
lection in the division of mammals. Nearly 1,000 specimens from
Formosa and 400 from North Borneo were collected by field parties
of U.S. Naval Medical Research Unit No. 2 and forwarded by Dr.
Robert EK. Kuntz. Two important collections were received from
South Vietnam, an area heretofore very poorly represented: Bernard
R. Feinstein, of the Museum staff, working in cooperation with the
Army Medical Research and Development Command and the Bernice
P. Bishop Museum, sent 600 mammals; and Dr. Robert Traub for-
warded 121 additional specimens collected by the U.S. Army Medical
Research Unit. From Panama, Captain Vernon J. Tipton sent 273
specimens collected by the Army Preventive Medicine Division.
Numerous smaller collections were received from localities within the
United States; E. V. Komarek presented 83 mammals, mostly car-
nivores, from the southeastern states, as well as an additional lot of
53 small mammals from the same area; Russell E. Mumford and
Ralph D. Kirkpatrick each continued to send mammals from Indiana;
and the Virginia State Department of Health, through J. T. Banks
and T. M. Mullmann, presented 44 mammals collected in the course
of epidemiological surveys. Other contributions to the much desired
improvement of our mammal collections from the Middle Atlantic
States were received from Lyle Conrad, Bernard R. Feinstein, E. H.
Geil, C. O. Handley, Sr., C. O. Handley, Jr., Robert D. Jackson,
Kenneth I. Lange, J. C. Lingebach, and Daniel I. Rhymer.

Some of the most important accessions in the division of birds came
from the same sources that were responsible for several of the mam-
mal collections referred to above. <A series of 512 bird skins from the
lowlands of North Borneo was received from the U.S. Naval Medical
Research Unit No. 2. A total of 565 bird skins, 6 alcoholic specimens,
and 20 skeletons from South Vietnam resulted from the activities
40) U.S. NATIONAL MUSKUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1961

sponsored by the Bernice P. Bishop Museum and the Army Medical
Research and Development Command. No less than 1,411 skins and
19 skeletons from North America were received by transfer from the
U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service. The U.S. Naval Medical Research
Unit No. 2 was also credited with 1,081 skins and 6 alcoholic specimens
from Formosa.

The division of reptiles and amphibians received several noteworthy
collections. Leslhe Hubricht donated 19 salamanders from Alabama,
including the holotype of a new genus and species. A fine series of
Virginia amphibians, mostly salamanders, collected by the late Walter

Green moray eel Gymnothorax funebris, caught near Cat Cay in the
Bahamas. Six feet two inches long and weighing 42 pounds, it was
given to the Museum by Al Pflueger.

B. Newman, was received as a gift from his mother, Mrs. Helen B.
Newman; this collection contains type material of two species. By
transfer from the U.S. Army Medical Research Unit, through Lt.
Col. H. J. Baker, came 29 snakes, mostly from Selangor, an area from
which we have had few specimens. Material from the U.S. Naval
Medical Research Unit No. 2, through Dr. Robert KE. Kuntz, amounted
to 116 snakes from Formosa. <A series of 28 Venezuelan reptiles and
amphibians collected for the Museum by C. O. Handley, Jr., and D. I.
Rhymer contains some frogs that are valuable for comparison with
Colombian material now being studied. Similarly, 39 reptiles and
amphibians collected in South Vietnam by Bernard R. Feinstein are
a valuable adjunct to our collections from Thailand.

The largest collection received in the division of fishes consists of
2,702 specimens from the Fourth Smithsonian—Bredin Caribbean
Expedition. Another large collection, totalling 1,114 fishes, was re-
ceived from the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, through Harvey
ACCESSIONS 41

KR. Bullis, Jr., and Daniel M. Cohen. These collections are import-
ant as they contain specimens of value to the current research of sev-
eral investigators. Dr. Eugenie Clark, of the Cape Haze Marine
Laboratory, Placida, Fla., and Dr. H. Steinitz, of the Hebrew Uni-
versity of Jerusalem, donated 778 marine fishes that were collected
in the Red Sea by Dr. Clark; these specimens are very valuable be-
cause the Red Sea area is the type locality of numerous kinds of
fishes, some of which are endemic. Dr. Hurst Shoemaker, of the
American University of Beirut, donated 361 fishes from Lebanon.
Among the valuable collections sent in for identification were 453
Formosan fishes received from Dr. Robert E. Kuntz, U.S. Naval
Medical Research Unit No. 2, and 728 specimens from Africa and
South America received from Dr. Herbert R. Axelrod, of Tropical
Fish Hobbyist Publications, Jersey City.

The John C. Lutz collection of Hemiptera, consisting of 87,371
specimens, was the most outstanding accession in the division of
insects; this collection, which contains 668 types of various kinds
including holotypes of 15 species, is particularly rich in Neotropical
species, many of which were not previously represented in the national
collections. Another very important insect accession is the N.
Baranov collection of Palaearctic tachnid flies, consisting of 4,611
specimens representing 305 genera, 68 of which are new to our col-
lections, and 812 species, of which 499 were not previously available
for study here; no less than 129 species are represented by type
material, including 43 holotypes and 51 paratypes. Individuals who
made important contributions to the national insect collection are:
Dr. Charles P. Alexander, Amherst, Mass., who donated 3,306 mis-
cellaneous specimens from North and South America; A. J. Ford,
of Honolulu, who presented 2,915 Hawaiian insects; Dr. J.
Maldonado-Capriles, who contributed 2,938 miscellaneous specimens
from Pakistan; O. L. Cartwright, U.S. National Museum, who do-
nated 10,000 scarab beetles; William E. Sieker, who presented 2,127
Lepidoptera from Wisconsin; Dr. Douglas Gould, who gave approxi-
mately 3,000 mites; N. L. H. Krauss, who continued his enthusiastic
support of the national collections by contributing 7,848 miscellaneous
insects from various parts of the world; and Dr. Karl V. Krombein,
who presented 1,127 Hymenoptera which are of special value because
they are the basis of biological studies being conducted by the donor.

Contributing materially to another record-breaking year for acces-
sions in the division of marine invertebrates were 54,480 amphipod
crustaceans, including 15 type specimens, received from the Scripps
Institution of Oceanography, University of California. From the
Universitetets Zoologiske Museum, Copenhagen, through Dr. H.
Volsée, we received 9 deep-sea invertebrates from the world-renowned

609091614
42 U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1961

Danish Deepsea Expedition of the Galathea, including paratypes of
unusual holothurians, starfishes, polychaete worms, and sea anemones.
The Rijksmuseum van Natuurlijke Historie, Leiden, The Netherlands,
through Dr. L. B. Holthuis, donated 402 crustaceans, including two
seyllarid lobsters and an authoritatively identified set of European
isopods. <A collection of 5,528 miscellaneous Antarctic invertebrates
from Operation Deep Freeze IV was received from Stanford Uni-
versity, through Dr. Donald E. Wohlschlag. Another large series
of 5,256 miscellaneous marine invertebrates was collected for the
Museum in Bermuda by Mrs. LaNelle W. Peterson.

The most important accession in the division of mollusks was 12,200
specimens collected for the Museum at Jaluit Atoll, in the southern
Marshall Islands, by Dr. Harald A. Rehder. The Fourth Smith-
sonian-Bredin Caribbean Expedition added 6,000 mollusks from
Yucatan. Dr. Wendell P. Woodring collected 485 specimens of
marine mollusks on the Atlantic coast of Panama. From the In-
stitute of Oceanology of the Academy of Sciences of the USSR,
through Dr. Z. A. Filatova, came 607 specimens of fresh-water mol-
lusks from the USSR.

Botany

The most important accession of the year was the Oladonia collec-
tion of the late Alexander W. Evans, consisting of 39,204 specimens,
received in exchange from the Osborn Botanical Laboratory of Yale
University. Others, also in exchange, were 2,895 unusually fine spec-
imens of Phododendron and Primula collected in Asia by George
Forest, received from the Royal Botanic Garden, Edinburgh, Scot-
land; 7,786 specimens of Asia and South America, mostly significant
historical collections, from the Muséum National d’Histoire Naturelle,
Paris; 1,287 plants of Indonesia from the Herbarium Bogoriense,
Bogor, Indonesia; and 527 photographs of plants in the Philip Miller
Herbarium from the Bailey Hortorium, Ithaca, N.Y.

From the American Museum of Natural History were received
15,780 specimens collected by L. J. Brass on the Sixth Archbold
Expedition to New Guinea. The University of California, Berkeley,
sent 497 specimens of South American plants collected by W. Eyer-
dam on the Sixth Botanical Garden Expedition to the Andes, in return
for identifications.

Dr. Mason E. Hale and Dr. Thomas R. Soderstrom collected 3,841
specimens, mostly lichens, in Mexico for the Museum, and Dr. John
KK. Ebinger collected 5,086 specimens in Panama, primarily on Barro
Colorado Island. From the U.S. Geological Survey, Department
of the Interior, were transferred 2,650 Alaskan plants collected by
Lloyd Spetzman.
ACCESSIONS 43

The division of woods received in exchange from the Yale School
of Forestry 474 wood samples collected by Dr. John J. Wurdack and
L. S. Adderley in Venezuela; 966 slides of Malayan woods from the
Forest Research Institute, Kepong, Selangor, Malaya, through P. K.
Balan Menon; 314 wood samples with voucher herbarium specimens
collected in Sarawak, from the University of Oxford, England; and
1,784 microscope slides of pollen from the Rancho Santa Ana Botanic
Garden. Dr. Stern presented 609 samples of wood he collected in
Panama.

Geology

As gifts, 21,577 specimens in 248 accessions were received in the
division of mineralogy and petrology. Some of the important items
are: a very fine cubic crystal of diamond weighing 82.5 carats, from
Sierra Leone, and a three-quarter carat diamond crystal in matrix,
from the Bulfontein Mine, South Africa, both gifts of Dorus Van
Itallie; a fine large group of wulfenite crystals from the Glove Mine,
near Amado, Ariz., and a gem-quality twin crystal of chrysobery],
from Minas Gerais, Brazil, both gifts of Bernard T. Rocca, Sr.; and
a large botryoidal mass of rhodochrosite from Argentina, from E. C.
Soper.

New mineral species received as gifts were: kennedyite, Southern
Rhodesia, from the University of Leeds, England; lizardite, England,
from the Department of Scientific and Industria] Research, Watford,
England; rhodesite and mountainite, South Africa, from Rhodes
University, Grahamstown, Republic of South Africa; blixite, Sweden,
from the Naturhistoriska Riksmuseet, Stockholm, Sweden; and
yedlinite, Maine, from Neal Yedlin, New Haven, Conn.

Outstanding among specimens received in exchange are: becquere-
lite and fourmarierite from the Republic of the Congo (Leopold-
ville) ; andersonite, Utah; raspite, Australia; phosphophyllite and
wolframite, Bolivia; cronstedtite, Hungary; and benitoite, California.
Newly described species received in exchange were: schoderite and
metaschoderite, Nevada; masuyite and lueskite, Republic of the Congo
(Leopoldville) ; yavapaite, Arizona; and wolsendorfite, Germany.

About 1,625 specimens were added to the Roebling collection by
purchase from the Roebling fund or by exchange. Among these the
following are outstanding: a collection of 40 specimens of wulfenite,
each of exceptional quality, from various localities in Arizona; several
very fine adularia crystals from Switzerland; bournonite, Japan; a
collection of Finnish minerals comprising 895 specimens, principally
from the Erijarvi pegmatite dike; dolomite, Austria; melonite, Colo-
rado; caledonite, Arizona; a well-formed cube of uraninite four inches
on an edge, from Morogoro, Tanganyika; and a very fine large gado-
+4 U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1961

linite crystal from the Iveland district, southern Norway. Added
to the Canfield collection by purchase from the Canfield fund were
17 specimens in 4 accessions. Among these are several of outstanding
quality, including wulfenite, Glove Mine, near Amado, Ariz.; a 90
carat peridot crystal from Zebirget, Egypt; a very large sphene
crystal, from Baja California; bournonite, England; and apatite,
Italy.

An unusually large number of fine gems were added to the collection,
and the most significant of these are: a 263.5-carat aquamarine,
USSR, from Mrs. Paul A. Neal; a 28.25-carat andalusite, Brazil,
from Fred C. Kennedy; a 187.2-carat colorless topaz, and two citrines
weighing 90.5 and 78.8 carats, respectively, all from Brazil, from
Albert R. Cutter; a 5.35-carat green apatite, from Mr. and Mrs. Paul
Durand; six Montana sapphites and a 5.92-carat transparent red opal,
from Mexico, from James and Harry Kazanjian; and a carved piece
of Burma amber, from Martin L. Ehrmann. Gems acquired for the
Isaac Lea collection by purchase from the Chamberlain fund include
a pink scapolite from Burma weighing 12.33 carats; a blue topaz
from Texas weighing 146.55 carats; a peridot from Arizona weighing
22.9 carats; and a 9.53-carat yellow tourmaline from Brazil.

During the past year the meteorite collection continued its growth.
Seven meteorites new to the collection were obtained: Abee, Canada;
Bruderheim, Canada; Kandahar, Afghanistan; Treysa, Germany;
Utzenstorf, Switzerland; Aroos, Russia; and Moab, United States.
Exchanges for meteorites and tektites were carried out with the fol-
lowing institutions; University of Bern, University of Adelaide, Uni-
versity of California, Max Planck Institut fiir Chemie; Universitets
Mineralogiske Museum (Copenhagen), University of Kentucky, Uni-
versity of Alberta, National Musenm of Australia, Gorny Institute
(Leningrad), Naturhistorisches Museum (Bern), Academy of
Sciences of the USSR, and the Geological Survey of Canada.

Some important fossil collections were acquired by the division of
invertebrate paleontology and paleobotany. The American Museum
of Natural History donated the famous Greene collection consisting
mostly of Devonian corals from the Falls of the Ohio region in In-
diana and Kentucky. A bequest was received from the estate of Mrs.

tuby F. Renfro of approximately 50,000 specimens of Pennsylvanian,

Permian, and Cretaceous fossils of north central Texas and a small
collection from Europe. Other gifts include 1,000 Devonian inverte-
brate fossils from the upper Dundee limestone and the Silica shale,
Michigan and Ohio, presented by Dr. Erle G. Kauffman; 36 fossil
crabs from the Miocene of Virginia, from George Webb; and 167
smaller Foraminifera from the Mississippian of southern Indiana,
Kentucky, Tennessee, and Ohio, presented by Dr. J. E. Conkin.
ACCESSIONS AD

This topaz, shown full size, is from Minas Gerais, Brazil, and weighs
3,273 carats. It is the largest cut blue topaz in the world.

Funds from the income of the Walcott bequest made possible field
work which yielded 600 echinoids from the Paleocene, collected in
Georgia by Dr. Porter Kier in collaboration with Dr. Druid Wilson,
of the U.S. Geological Survey; 2,500 Upper Cretaceous, Paleocene,
and Eocene invertebrate fossils collected in Maryland by Dr. Erle G.
Kauffman with Dr. Norman F. Sohl and Dr. Harlan R. Bergquist, of
the U.S. Geological Survey; and 1,000 Pennsylvanian fossils collected
in Texas by Drs. G. Arthur Cooper and Richard E. Grant.

The outstanding accession received in the division of vertebrate
paleontology was a series of about 202 specimens representing fish,
amphibians, and reptiles from various Permian formations in Texas
and Kansas, collected by Dr. Nicholas Hotton III and John E. Gass-
away through funds provided by the Walcott bequest. Particular
mention is made of a nearly complete and articulated skeleton of the
small predaceous amphibian A croplous vorax taken from the Permian
Speiser formation of Kansas, and a large part of a skeleton of the
primitive cotylosaurian reptile Labidosaurus sp., from the Permian
Arroyo formation of Texas. A rare and remarkably well-preserved
ray fish, together with a gar pike and a partial skeleton of a bird
ACCESSIONS AZ

which may prove to be a fossil booby, from the Eocene Green River
formation of southwestern Wyoming, were purchased through the
Walcott bequest. The jaws, part of the skull, and several vertebrae
of a very large baleen whale were collected from the Miocene York-
town formation near Hampton, Va., by Dr. Nicholas Hotton III, Kurt
F. Hauschildt, and Dr. Frank C. Whitmore, Jr. Dr. Hotton, assisted
by William E. Moran, a former Smithsonian employee, also secured a
partial skeleton, including the greater part of a skull, of a rare em-
bolomerous amphibian from the Mauch Chunk formation of
Mississippian age, near Greer, W.Va.

Science and Technology

The division of physical sciences acquired two astrolabes of unusual
interest. Through the generosity of Lessing J. Rosenwald a very fine
medieval English instrument was received, having as a notable feature
zoomorphie star pointers. Although undated and unsigned, it is dated
by the calendar scale about 1325. A second astrolabe received this year
is an Hispano-Moorish instrument by Muhammad ibn-Sahli. In its
decoration it exhibits a mixture of Islamic, Christian, and Jewish
characteristics.

Two major refrigerating machines for exhibit in the new hall of
power machinery were received this year: the first commercially suc-
cessful centrifugal refrigeration compressor from Carrier Corpora-
tion, and a typical steam-driven reciprocating ammonia compressor
from Clifton Springs Sanitarium and Clinic. The compressor was
generously restored by the Frick Company. ‘The first seven bridge
models for the new hall of civil engineering were completed; they
exhibit an unusually high level of excellence in the model builder’s art.

About 3,000 original large tracings, on cloth, of heavy mining
machinery for the period 1875-1902 were received from Calumet &
Hecla, Inc. This valuable collection represents an important part of
the creative work of Erasmus D. Leavitt (1836-1916), a widely known
and highly honored mechanical engineer. The archival collections of
the division have grown, largely through the efforts of associate
curator Vogel, to a major repository of source materials in the history
of mechanical and civil engineering.

The Cumberland Valley Railroad locomotive Pioneer, built by Seth Wil-
marth in 1851. Gift of the Pennsylvania Railroad through its vice-
president John S. Fair, the locomotive was placed on exhibit in
February 1961.
AS U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1961

An early (1903) gear-shaping machine from the Fellows Gear
Shaper Co., intended for exhibit in the new hall of tools, is one of a
growing collection of machine tools that were significant in the rise
of the United States as an industrial nation. The first universal
erinder (1883) by Abraham B. Landis and an animated model of a
modern large transfer-type machine for high-production grinding of
automobile crankshafts were received from the Landis Tool Co.

With a particularly gracious gesture, Monseigneur Roger Michon,
of Chartres Cathedral, provided us with a color transparency of the
Cathedral’s stained glass window of “Le Tourneur,” by a 13th century
craftsman. The window, located high in the Cathedral, was photo-
graphed personally by Msgr. Michon with his own telescopic equip-
ment. He noted with pleasure that “Chartres will be represented in
your new Museum.”

Among the outstanding gifts in the section of marine transporta-
tion is a model of the brigantine sloop Ferret. This Admiralty model
is a gift of Lansdell K. Christie. From the Grace Line, Inc., we re-
ceived a model of the passenger liner Santa Paula. Other outstand-
ing models received were the blockade runner Yergus, paddle steamer
George Law, whaleback Frank Rockefeller, New York pilot boat
Anna Maria, and the Savannah, 1819 steamship that crossed the At-
lantic Ocean. In the section of land transportation a colonial chaise,
together with funds for its restoration, was received from Stewart
Huston. Also received wasa collection of fire fighting apparatus from
Dr. Karl B. Bretzfelder. The Baltimore & Ohio Railroad Company,
through L. W. Sagle, donated a collection of glass-plate negatives and
car drawings.

The division of electricity has been particularly fortunate in obtain-
ing the Palmer Collection of early electrical equipment from Prince-
ton University. The collection is an important one and provided most
of the illustrations in M. Maclaren’s “Rise of the Electrical Industry
During the 19th Century.” It is exceptionally rich in examples of
laboratory meters, telephonic apparatus, power switch-gear, and in-
candescent lamps. Two other large groups of specimens were also
acquired; one from Brown University, consisting primarily of motors
and generators, together with some interesting wireless telegraph
equipment, and one from the Weston Instrument Company, consisting
of early commercial meters. The Standardizing Laboratory of the
General Electric Company is also sending us a fine collection of meters
of the 1880's.

Among the commercial pieces, some of the most outstanding were:
a telegraph message sent by marine cable from London to Bombay in
1873, from Mrs. Isabel M. Goetschises; a Westinghouse alternator of
the late 1880’s, from Cornell University; an example of the klystron
ACCESSIONS 49

first used to supply the power for high energy linear accelerators, from
Stanford University through E. L. Ginzton; and a complete mechani-
cal television transmitter, from the State University of Iowa.

The collections of timekeeping instruments have been considerably
enhanced by the acquisition of a David Rittenhouse half-size tall clock,
which has an astronomical type dial. Only one other precision clock
by Rittenhouse is known, and it has undergone much rebuilding. This
clock is one of his earlier works and is probably entirely the prod-
uct of his own hands. Several other outstanding clocks were also
obtained, including one from Gideon Roberts, who introduced mass-
produced wooden clocks.

Among the accessions in medical sciences during the past year has
been a significant collection of dental instruments, from the S. S.
White Dental Manufacturing Company; most important were those
related to dental drilling. The New England Hospital for Women
and Children Nurses Alumnae Association donated an early uniform,
worn by Linda Richards, and other personal memorabilia, including
a Tolles microscope. Miss Richards was the first woman to receive a
diploma from any American training school for nurses. A number
of medals, diplomas, and other memorabilia have been received from
the estate of Abraham Flexner, in accordance with his bequest. Addi-
tions to the drug-jar collection included two 16th century Belgian jars
and one 19th century Danish jar. A 19th century Robervahl balance
was received from J. Stanley Falck.

Arts and Manufactures

The division of textiles received a collection of over a hundred 19th-
century sewing machines, presented by the Singer Manufacturing
Company through Bogart F. Thompson. Machines previously un-
represented in the collection include an 1849 Morey and Johnson ma-
chine and an 1849 Blodgett and Lerow, both predecessors of the
famous Singer machine, and many 19th-century patent models of
Singer and other machines. An outstanding collection of over two
hundred sewing birds, hemming clamps, and related needlework acces-
sories was donated by Miss Mabel Whiteley.

Mrs. Herbert Arthur May presented an interesting collection of
laces and embroidery, including examples of Chantilly, Brussels,
Maltese, and Venetian needlepoint. Mrs. May also gave to the divi-
sion of ceramics and glass 13 pieces of American glass from a special
service made for her yacht Sea Cloud.

Other specimens accessioned by the division of ceramics and
glass are: a rare Castleford urn with painted decorations, presented
by Mrs. George H. Myers; 28 pieces of porcelain, including an English
Lowestoft teapot, a China trade porcelain fruit basket, Sevres tea set,
50 U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1961

and a Liverpool coffee pot, all of the 18th century, donated by Mrs.
Wilham A. Sutherland; and a unique piece of Americana, consisting
of an Oriental Lowestoft cider jug and cover, with painted decorations
with the inscription “Jefferson and Liberty,” surmounted by an Ameri-
can eagle and 17 stars, given by R. Thornton Wilson.

A fine group of chiaroscuro woodcuts was acquired by the division
of graphic arts. The group includes two examples by the important
early 16th-century pioneer, Antonio da Trento, S#. Matthew and The
Martyrdom of St. Paul and St. Peter; The Descent from the Cross, by
Ugo da Carpi, founder of the chiaroscuro process in Italy; works by
the most important 17th century practitioners, such as Aeneas Carry-
ing Anchises by Ludolph Businek; Death of Lucretia by Paulus More-
else; and Sibyl with Books and Virgin with Jesus and John by Barto-
lomeo Coriolano. The 18th century is represented by John Baptist
Jackson’s Pieta and the outline block for his The Virgin in the Clouds
and Six Saints. Ralph E. Wareham presented to the section of pho-
tography a Lechrome National Photocolor One-Shot Color Camera.
This type of camera simultaneously exposes a complete set of color
separation negatives which are used to produce color prints. A dis-
play of motion picture film strips explaining their Technirama process
of cinematography was donated by Technicolor Corporation.

Several significant specimens were received in the division of manu-
factures and heavy industries. In the section of petroleum, Universal
Oil Products Company and Esso Standard Oil Company, in associa-
tion with the M. W. Kellogg Company, prepared models and flow
charts illustrative of phases in the development of petroleum refining.
William C. Cleveland, consultant in the section of general manufactur-
ing, has been successful in locating more than 100 machines typical of
the development of the metal working trades. These will provide an
excellent basis for a treatment of the history of fasteners of all kinds.
A number of important pieces of equipment have been transferred by
nuclear physics laboratories at Argonne, Chicago, and Washington,
D:C:

Civil History

Received as a gift from President John F. Kennedy was a magnifi-
cent volume, the Atlas Nouveau, compiled by Nicolas Sanson and pub-
lished in 1692. This richly illustrated atlas, intended for the in-
struction of the Dauphin of France, is bound in a contemporary red
leather and gilt binding.

Former President Dwight D. Eisenhower donated a Portuguese
standing lamp in silver, a carved teakwood elephant and rider pre-
sented to him by His Majesty Bhumibol Adulyadej of Thailand, and
an elaborately carved scene from the Mahabharata in ivory and san-
ACCESSIONS Sl

Gift of President John F. Kennedy, this atlas was compiled by Nicolas
Sanson and was published in France in 1692.

dalwood, presented to him by the President of India. Mr. Eisen-
hower also gave the twin microphones over which his voice was fre-
quently carried during his 50,000-mile campaign of 1952.

Mrs. Dwight D. Eisenhower presented a pink embroidered or-
gandy dress given her by Mrs. Carlos P. Garcia, wife of the President
of the Philippines.

Ralph E. Becker continued his donations of political campaign
paraphernalia of the past. Significant among the gifts is a preserve
crock inscribed “25,000 Majority General Jackson”—a protest against
the fact that although General Jackson rolled up a majority of greater
than 25,000 popular votes over his nearest rival, John Quincy Adams,
in the election of 1824, he lost the election. Since no candidate had a
majority of the total vote, the House of Representatives chose Mr.
Adams from the three candidates having the highest number of elec-
toral votes.

The division of philately and postal history acquired a specialized
collection of early Peru, consisting of more than 13,000 stamps and
covers in 16 albums, donated by Bernard Peyton. The material
portrays the postal history of Peru from the period of Royal Spanish
Service to the end of the 19th century. Essays, proofs, and color
trials augment the approved stamps, and each issue is thoroughly
explored by means of cancellations. One album presents the Pacific

o2 U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1961

ST. LAWRENCE SEAWAY: VOIE MARITIME DU ST-LAURENT

The ‘Seaway error,” a Canadian 5-cent commemorative stamp with
inverted center, given to the Museum by George L. Lee.

Steam Navigation Company’s stamps and essays, including use on
covers. ‘The provisional stamps made necessary by the occupation
of Chilean forces in 1879-82 are of great historical value. George L.
Lee presented a collection of Egyptian stamps from the Royal In-
perforate Printings prepared for Kings Fuad and Farouk. This un-
usual material was sold by the present Egyptian Government in 1954.
Mr. Lee also gave a used copy of the 5-cent Canadian St. Lawrence
Seaway stamp with inverted center. This modern printing error,
of which only shghtly more than 100 are known, including 11 used
copies, was discovered in 1959 not long after date of issuance. Wide-
spread interest and limited supply have caused a sharp appreciation
for this variety.

The division of numismatics received from Cornelius Van Schaak
Roosevelt, grandson of President Theodore Roosevelt, a high-relief
experimental 20-dollar gold piece dated 1907, originally owned by
President Roosevelt. This rare first striking of a piece designed by
the American sculptor Augustus Saint-Gaudens, at the President’s
request, marks a unique venture in modern monetary history, a ven-
ture in which a President of the United States and a famous sculptor
worked together to produce a new coin design of high artistic merit.
Mr. Willis du Pont donated a very significant additional group of
Russian coins and medals of the latter part of the 18th century.
ACCESSIONS ays)

Mrs. Louise Merrick Schermerhorn presented a group of rare gold
certificates including a group of three notes dated 1864, 1866, and 1877,
typifying the earliest issued of United States gold certificates. To
the section of medallic art were added, as a gift from Norman Stack,
two rare Washington medals, one made in 1790 by Manly and the
other in 1805 by Eccleston. The Medallic Art Company of New York
donated an interesting group of models and dies used for the striking
of the John F. Kennedy inaugural medal, as well as a process set of
medals showing the various steps in the striking and finishing of the
medal.

Armed Forces History

The division of military history received a unique Revolutionary
War militia color carried at the Battles of Trenton and Germantown,
presented by Mr. Francis W. Headman in memory of his son, Francis
W. Headman, Jr. Lieut. Col. Calvin P. Titus donated a rare Medal
of Honor awarded to him for gallantry in the siege of Pekin, in 1900.
Field work at Sackets Harbor, N.Y., Fort Adams, Miss., and on under-
water sites in Bermuda yielded significant historical materials for the
collections.

The division of naval history received an outstanding collection of
German and Japanese ordnance and electronic equipment of World
War II, Japanese uniforms, and uniform items of Fleet Admiral
Nimitz and Vice Admiral Lockwood. Two objects associated with
Pearl Harbor were received. A unique monogrammed dish for the
Confederate Navy was added to the Civil War collections.

President John F. Kennedy donated an ancient Greek amphora
recovered from the Mediterranean.
Care of Collections

SPECIMENS ACCESSIONED, IDENTIFIED, AND DISTRIBUTED—
FISCAL YEAR 1961

Accessions Trans- Trans- Lent for

(transac- ferred to ferred to study to
tions) Exchanged education- other gov- investigators
1961 Received on with other al institu- ernment and to other Specimens
Departments (new) loan institutions tions, etc. agencies institutions identified
Anthropology . . 61 a 454 5 0 3,790 21, 006
UOONORy 3 2 oc 759 1,552 5,690 1, 219 116 = 87, 8382 16, 984
IBOUEHIN 5 6 ooo 360 8,074 39,445 2,419 2,046 16, 700 19, 646
Geallopay oo so 389 385 3, 671 (0) 159 12,453 44, 029
Science and Tech- 284 16 4 0 0 73 682
nology.
Arts and Manu- 144 25 0) 0 0 64 2, 974
factures.
Civil History . . 550 22, 531 0) 0 0 5, 734 61, 269
Armed _ Forces 123 86 0) 0 1 323 2, 533
History.
Total .. 2,670 32,675 49, 264 3,648 2,322 126,969 169, 123
Anthropology

The work of cleaning, repairing, and preserving the basketry in the
ethnological collection was continued by chief exhibits specialist
A. Joseph Andrews in the anthropological laboratory. Ma. Andrews
also made casts of a variety of anthropological specimens and of a few
human faces from life, instructed visitors in the special techniques of
a museum laboratory, and provided information to correspondents
on the care of wooden and ivory objects. He continued the restoration
and preservation of various types of specimens, not only from the
collections of the department, but also from those of the National
Collection of Fine Arts and of the division of cultural history.
Scientific illustrator George R. Lewis made 95 drawings, mainly of
archeological objects, 35 maps and charts, and he lettered about 16
illustrations.

By contract Henry Courtais remounted, cleaned, and restored 100
more paintings of American Indians by George Catlin. At the close
of the year Mr. Courtais was starting work on an additional 100
paintings. New frames are being made in the museum’s carpentry

54
CARE OF COLLECTIONS 55

shop for all of the paintings thus far restored. Judging by the fre-
quent inquiries about, and requests for photographs of, the Catlin
paintings, there is great public interest in the work of this famous
painter of Indians. The second of two large Northwest Coast dugout
canoes which had badly deteriorated in the course of years of exposure
has been repaired by a boatwright and is soon to be returned to the
west court of the Natural History building.

The evacuation of two ethnology exhibit hails under the moderniza-
tion program made it convenient to check the identification and
condition of many specimens, following which the study collections in-
volved were regrouped and consolidated for improved storage and
accessibility by assistant curator Robert A. Elder, Jr., and museum
aide Clarence A. Bender.

In the new archeological exhibit halls museum aides George Metcalf
and Robert Jenkins further reorganized the study collections stored
behind the display areas and brought more nearly up-to-date the loca-
tion records pertaining thereto. Associate curator Gus Van Beek,
assisted by museum aide Robert Jenkins, virtually completed the
systematic arrangement of the study collections of Old World arche-
ology, so that specimens from Egypt, Mesopotamia, Iran, Palestine,
Cyprus, Greece, and Italy are now grouped by culture area and sep-
arated by type within the cultural grouping in a manner that permits
ready reference by the staff and visiting scientists. Mrs Evelyn
Harvey Henning, summer intern, consolidated and fully listed on
cards the division’s extensive collection of reprints and pamphlets,
thus greatly increasing their usefulness.

In the division of physical anthropology, processing of the recently
accessioned River Basin Surveys collections was completed by
anthropological aide Lucile Hoyme and summer intern Charles G.
Strickler.

Zoology

The program of new construction and remodeling involving the
Natural History building has made it necessary to move parts of the
collection of mammals into temporary quarters and to accelerate some
of the long-range projects concerned with the arrangement of that
collection.

The merging of the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service collection into
the national collection of mammals was accelerated. With the help
of museum aide Reginald Williams, preliminary arrangement of the
rodents was almost completed during the year. Miss Viola S. Schantz,
of the Fish and Wildlife Service, supervised the index-carding of most
of the squirrels. Satisfactory progress was also made on rearrange-
ment of alcoholic specimens and segregated types. <A large backlog
of unlabeled and unnumbered skulls and skeletons was eliminated by
56 U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1961

summer intern John Phillip Angle. During the remainder of the
year, this work and the routine cataloging of incoming specimens were
kept current by museum aide Robert D. Jackson. The osteological
laboratory under Joseph D. Biggs cleaned 3,025 skulls and skeletons
of mammals, as well as miscellaneous skeletal materials for other
divisions.

All accessions received in the division of birds have been fumigated,
identified, and catalogued, and, except for those withheld for study,
all have been incorporated into the main collection. Extensive re-
working of the North American birds has been done by Dr. J. W.
Aldrich and T. D. Burleigh, of the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service.
The taxidermy staff skinned and made up 51 birds, mounted 33, and
cleaned and repaired 27 other specimens.

The inventory of the lizards in the division of reptiles and am-
phibians was completed by museum aide Dorsey Williams.

The processed and catalogued collection of fishes is in an excellent
state of preservation and arranged in an orderly manner that makes
them readily accessible.

In the division of insects, the transfer and arrangement of the
Monrés collection of Chrysomelidae has been completed by Mrs. Doris
1. Blake, and the transfer of the Tippman Cerambycidae collection
has also been completed; both of those collections are now housed in
standard U.S. National Museum drawers and cases. Dr. Oliver 8S.
Flint, Jr., has identified and arranged the large mass of Trichoptera
(caddisflies) that had accumulated over the past 75 years, and it is
now readily available for study.

Dr. Ralph E. Crabill, Jr., has continued to examine carefully old
material in the myriapod collection, with the result that many addi-
tional types were discovered, properly labeled, and recorded. Sig-
nificant strides have been made in systematically arranging and
storing the slide collection of myriapods.

William D. Field has reclassified and rearranged the Morphidae,
bringing together the old collections and the specimens acquired from
the Ernest Shoemaker collection. Those, together with the Megathy-
midae also reclassified during the year, are now housed in standard
drawers. In addition 10 Schmitt boxes and 30 drawers of miscel-
laneous Lepidoptera were identified and incorporated in the regular
series. Summer intern Donald Duckworth completely rearranged the
microlepidopteran family Stenomidae to bring it into line with recent
revisions and advances in that group, and the large slide collection of
genitaha of that family has been carefully arranged in Technicon slide
cabinets. The extensive Tippman collection of Cerambycidae has
been labeled and transferred to standard cases, and the entire
collection of Collembola has been checked and reconditioned.
CARE OF COLLECTIONS 57

Rearrangement of the more or less inactive collections of marine
invertebrates was continued by Dr. Frederick M. Bayer; about half
the hydroid collection has now been rearranged, cleaned, and checked
for preservative. Museum aide Nathaniel Livingston has checked
the preservative and cleaned the jars in about one-sixth of the echino-
derm collection, one-fourth of the polychaete collection, two thirds of
the crayfish collection, and the entire collection of primary types other
than crustaceans. He has also fumigated all of the quarter-unit dry
specimen cases in the attic to forestall damage by dermestid beetles.

The physical condition of the study collections of mollusks is good,
although relatively unchanged from the previous year. Little prog-
ress has been made in its reorganization, except for the contribution
made by Dr. Joseph Rosewater in adding many drawers of catalogued
specimens to the Indo-Pacific marine collection. The condition of the
shde and alcoholic collections of helminths at Beltsville continues to
be good under the care of members of the staff of the animal disease
and parasite branch, who have charge of that collection.

Botany

With the establishment of the division of woods, the wood collection
formerly under the division of agriculture and wood products was
transferred intact to the new unit. Since the collection is arranged in
a numerical sequence, rather than taxonomically, it does not require
periodic changes to allow for new material. In anticipation of expan-
sion into other fields of plant morphology, collections of microscope
slides of pollen and of sections of wood, both arranged taxonomically,
were started this year. The slides are filed vertically in 3- x 5-inch
aluminum holders, a method that allows easy interpolation of new
slides.

Wood samples and microscope slides require little care. Wood
samples recently received from the field may be infested with wood-
destroying insects, but treatment with ethylene dichloride-carbon
tetrachloride effectively destroys them. Samples which may be in the
“oreen” condition when received are dried in an unheated conditioning
room for several months before being placed in the collections. Such
treatment allows the woods to dry and minimizes subsequent checking
and sphtting.

In the division of ferns, summer intern David Lellinger organized
the more than 8,000 photographs of type specimens of ferns, taken in
Europe by curator Conrad Morton, so that they can be readily con-
sulted. For the first time numbers were assigned to the fern genera,
following the numbering and system of Carl Christensen, Index

609091—61 5

D8 U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1961

Sectioning on a sliding microtome is the first step taken by Curator
William L. Stern in preparation of microscope slides of wood for
reference files and research.

Filicum, which is the principal standard arrangement of ferns. This
has made possible the preparation of indices which are now attached
to the ends of the cases, to facilitate the finding of the genera.

The W. H. Long fungus collection, which had been kept separate,
was interpolated into the general collections by honorary research
associates C. R. Benjamin and John A. Stevenson, as were the fung1
from the Goucher College herbarium.

The major activities in caring for the permanent collections and the
processing of new material are summarized in the following table:

1959-60 1960-61

Specimens and photographs mounted........................ 31, 859 25, 946
Specimens rep AIT EM rails owe lo eveksteraparereavsrson ster tse oars tau Voeheree ovsisi otoreione 12, 584 11, 698
Specimens stamped tamdsrecond edhe recite cient elke 37, 526 33, 462
Specimens incorporated in herbarium or

added to the permanent collections.......................+- 48, 729 98, 442

There are now 58,438 types in the segregated type herbarium, in-
cluding 40,619 phanerogams, 10,051 grasses, 3,372 ferns, and 4,596
cryptogams. This is an increase of 514 types during the year.
CARE OF COLLECTIONS 59

Geology

Some progress was made by the division of mineralogy and petrol-
ogy, with the help of museum aides Masaw Williams and Franklin
Stephens, in reorganizing the rock sets transferred to the Museum
by the U.S. Geological Survey, and other locality sets. The economic
geology and physical geology materials formerly on exhibit in halls
6 and 19 have been consolidated and stored in hall 6, pending instal-
lation of anew geology exhibit in hall 20.

A. beginning has been made on the considerable changes in the
collections of the division of invertebrate paleontology and paleo-
botany that must be accomplished before the move to the new wing
is made. Museum aide Lorenzo Ford has been organizing both un-
studied and type collections under direction of associate curator
Richard S. Boardman. The types of the Paleozoic Bryozoa, corals,
and the trilobites have been put in precise alphabetical order. Mr.
Ford has also arranged and labeled the Pennsylvanian and Permian
parts of the large Renfro collection acquired this year.

Associate curator Richard Cifelli, with the help of museum aide
James P. Ferrigno, has made considerable progress on the continuing
task of cataloging, labeling, remounting, and distributing the backlog
of specimens into the collections. Dr, Cifelli has also made a small
beginning in the establishment of a set of thin sections of Foraminif-
era. In recent years the study of internal structures observed from
thin sections has become very important in the taxonomy of this
group. The Museum collection of types is probably the world’s
largest, and, judging from the present trend in the taxonomy of
Foraminifera, requests for thin sections of types will soon be a major
problem.

Associate curator Porter M. Kier, in charge of the Springer col-
lection of Echinodermata, has cleaned, sorted, and put away nearly
1,000 echinoids collected by him, or received through purchases and
gifts.

Associate curator Erle G. Kauffman developed and initiated a major
program for the reorganization of the Museum molluscan collection
during the year. Under this program, all type specimens will be
placed together in a single collection for each class. Nontype biologic
sets will be largely reorganized in biologic rather than alphabetical
order, using the Treatise of Invertebrate Paleontology as the basis
for classification. Mesozoic mollusks in the Museum collection will
be integrated with those of the U.S. Geological Survey to form a
master biologic set.

Museum aide Henry B. Roberts reorganized the collection of fossil
decapod crustaceans, arranging this collection in accordance with the
classification employed by Bales in the new edition of “Das Tierreich.”
60 U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1961

The exhibition modernization program in the division of vertebrate
paleontology has occupied nearly all of the time of the laboratory
personnel in the preparation, mounting, and installation of vertebrate
materials, so that very little has been accomplished in the care of the
study collection except for the preparation of certain fossil whale
materials that came in during the year. Associate curator David H.
Dunkle utilized the services of museum aide John D. Gassaway in |
rearranging part of the fossil fish collection, and curator C. Lewis
Gazin, in the course of research on the Knight faunas, has nearly
completed cataloging the lower Kocene mammalian collections, the
results of five seasons’ field work.

Science and Technology

All specimens received this year in the division of electricity have
been accessioned, catalogued, cleaned, and placed in storage or on
exhibit. Electronics technician Roy La Roche cleaned the specimens
and checked their placement on the catalog cards. Additional storage
space set up in the wood court was of considerable assistance because
of the growing size of the collections.

Two of the finest models in the division of mechanical and civil
engineering were thoroughly restored this year, an exquisitely detailed
beam steam engine of about 1830, built by Bancks of London, and
a large waterworks pumping engine, built at the Corliss works in
1870. Both models will be exhibited in the new Museum.

Through machinist William Henson, adequate equipment for a
machine shop has been obtained through surplus channels from the
Washington Naval Weapons Plant, and under his hands the syste-
matic restoration of machine tools and other objects for the hall of
tools is being carried out at an accelerated pace.

In the division of medical sciences, museum aide Everett A. Jackson
has been engaged in a cleaning and restoring program, beginning with
objects scheduled for exhibition in the new museum. Acquisition of
a small amount of new storage space has made possible a more logical
and orderly rearrangement of the reference collection. The catalog
cards in the section of medical and dental history, heretofore filed
numerically, were refiled by subject groupings, and a similar project
is progressing in the section of pharmacy and health. A new subject-
group index to the photograph collection is also being prepared by
museum aide George H. Ford, who continues to devote a major part
of his time to the maintenance of operating exhibits in the hall of
health.

In the division of transportation, restoration of the Locomobile
steam automobile is nearly completed, and restoration of the cycle
collection is proceeding fairly rapidly.
CARE OF COLLECTIONS 61

This teaching model of a beam steam engine, made about 1830 by
Bancks of London and now on loan from the Massachusetts Chari-
table Mechanics Association, was restored for eventual exhibition
in the new Museum.

The rail collection was inventoried and many unidentified sections
were catalogued. Detailed sketches were made of each rail section
and placed on the catalog cards for future reference. The cards were
refiled according to style and material.

Arts and Manufactures

The division of agriculture and forest products has continued its
program of renovation of the farm machines in storage at Silver Hill.
Most of this is being done at the model shop, where laborer John W.
62 U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1961

Smith has cleaned, repainted, and restored several machines, in-
cluding a horse-drawn drill and a disc harrow. Through the efforts of
museum aide John Wingo, the farm machinery hall ranked as one
of the best maintained. Consolidation of storage has continued in
the division of ceramics and glass, with sixteen additional units being
added to the Arts and Industries building storage section. Inventory
and rearrangement of storage items has been well advanced. Cata-
loging and accessioning of new objects and recataloging and checking
identification of objects received by transfer from other divisions is
progressing satisfactorily.

In the division of graphic arts museum aide James W. Norwood
matted and made minor repairs to approximately 820 prints. Some
315 patent models of presses and allied inventions dealing with print-
ing, typefounding, and typecasting were cleaned and inventoried by
museum aide James Norwood, who also gathered information for
use In preparing divisional record cards for these unlisted specimens.
Associate curator Kugene Ostroff, in cooperation with consultant Dr.
Rudolf Kingslake, Director of Optical Design of Eastman Kodak
Company, completed identification of the photographic lens collec-
tion. Wherever necessary the lenses were restored.

The division of manufactures and heavy industries continued its
program of review of existing collections and has completed re-
organization of storage. Museum aides John Carter and Linwood
Lucas have cleaned and renovated a number of specimens and models
and handled the large number of items received at the Smithsonian
storage facility. In the division of textiles hundreds of textile patent
models previously stored on open shelving were removed, checked,
cleaned, and relocated in new metal lockers by museum aide Everett
Parker. Reorganization of the fabric and lace storage continued.
Lace edgings were rolled on plastic film for easy handling. The work
of re-storing by type and style in preparation for improved study
storage in the new building is slow, but important.

Civil History

A major project in the division of cultural history was the restora-
tion of a rare early American wooden statue of William Pitt, carved
in 1801 by Joseph Wilson for “Lord” Timothy Dexter. The figure
had been ravaged by carpenter ants and dry rot. Most of one arm
had disintegrated, while concrete poured into the hollow center of the
torso had caused the remaining solid wood to split. Considerable
work was involved in removing the concrete and rotten wood, con-
structing the interior surface to form a solid mass, and substituting
new wood to rebuild the statue. The task became one of artistic
skill disciplined by painstaking observation of existing evidence as
CARE OF COLLECTIONS 63

What remained of carved wooden
statue of William Pitt, before restora-
tion. It is the last of some 30 figures
made in 1801 by Joseph Wilson to
decorate the lawn of ‘‘Lord’’ Timothy
Dexter’s estate in Newburyport, Mass.

Above right: Restorer Gordon Dentry
sculpturing reconstructed parts of
William Pitt statue.

The completed restoration is now on
exhibit in the hall of life in early
America.
64 U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1961

missing surface areas were sculptured in the new wood. Careful
study of the paint colors was made, using both documentary references
and the archeological evidence of paint layers. A white undercoat
was applied, followed by exact copies of the earlier applied colors,
leaving inconspicuous squares of original paint as evidence. The
result is a bizarre and gaudy figure with much gold trim, quite in
keeping with the attention-seeking flair of the self-titled “Lord”
Timothy, as well as an outstanding restoration of an American master-
piece of folk carving.

In the division of numismatics, all the United States bronze and
silver coins on exhibit were mounted in tightly closed boxes, made
of clear cellulose triacetate K IV, that provide an airtight enclosure
and should prevent noticeable corrosion or tarnishing. ‘The boxes
are attached to the display panel with a recently developed fastener
consisting of two strips of woven nylon tape, one covered with a
row of stiff nylon hooks and the other with tiny, soft nylon loops.
When the strips are pressed together the hooks and loops engage to
create a secure and easily removable fastener.

Most of the foreign silver coins and medals on display could not be
suitably enclosed in such boxes because of extreme variations in diam-
eter and thickness. To prevent tarnishing these specimens were given
i. protective coating, which proved satisfactory.

The program of regrouping stamps in new stockbooks in the divi-
sion of philately and postal history is being continued. Specialty
and reference collections have been maintained intact, and the albums
stored with the stockbooks according to country for easy identification.
The philatelic and historic collection of covers has been started with
several transfers of material from The Library of Congress. More
than 4,500 covers have been added to the collection, many of which
are to be used in the new “History of the Posts” exhibit.

Armed Forces History

Substantial progress was made in the restoraticn of objects in the
collections. The program of repairing and cleaning firearms and
other military equipment progressed satisfactorily. Renovation of
the ship and half model collections continued at an accelerated rate.

Under the direction of Dr. Philip K. Lundeberg, 25 half models
were restored, including a plank-on-frame model of the frigate Con-
stitution, a frame model of the 74-gun ship OAzo, a squirrel cage model
of the 120-gun ship Pennsylvania, a lift model of the sloop-of-war
ITartford, and a decorative model of the monitor AZonadnock.

Old, wet wood recovered from underwater shipwreck sites is being
preserved with polyethylene glycol, an inert, water-soluble material
CARE OF COLLECTIONS 65

which penetrates and fills the cells of the wet wood, and supports them
when the wood dries cut. In the higher molecular weights this sub-
stance 1s a white solid of waxlike consistency.

Wood recovered from salt water should, upon drying out, retain
its original shape if treated by the following routine:

1. The wet specimen from sea water is soaked in a bath of fresh water,
renewed every four hours.

2. When the fresh water no longer shows the presence of chlorides
through the silver nitrate test, the wood is placed in a solution of one part
polyethylene glycol (molecular weight 1,500) to one part hot distilled water.

3. The specimen is left in the solution until it sinks, indicating complete

saturation.
Investigation and Research
Museum of Natural History

wee

In the newly opened North American archeology hall, Indian remains
from western North America include a mummy bundle from an Aleu-
tian island burial cave. Chumash Indians (right) are depicted rough-
ing out bowls and quarrying soapstone on Catalina Island, off
California.

Anthropology

Late in 1960, preparatory to retirement, former head curator Frank
M. Setzler turned cver to C. Malcolm Watkins, curator of cultural
history, the draft of his report on archeological excavations carried
out in 1956 at the site of the colonial town of Marlborough, near the
point bearing that name on Potomac Neck, in Stafford County, Va.
Mr. Watkins will integrate the account with his own studies carried
out at this interesting colonial site and with others on the historical
documents relating thereto to produce a unified report for publication.

After taking over the head curatorship, Dr. T. Dale Stewart com-
pleted a manuscript on Neanderthal cervical vertebrae, with special
attention to the Shanidar Neanderthals from Iraq. As the work

66
INVESTIGATION AND RESEARCH 67

—— =
PREHISTORIC BASKETRY AND TEXTILES OF THE SOUTHWEST

Prehistoric Indian basketry and textiles of the American Southwest.
Large round basketry shield is one of three or four known to exist.

progressed he found it necessary to borrow from the Peabody Museum
of Harvard University the original cervical vertebrae of the Skhul V
Neanderthal from Mount Carmel in Palestine. The Skhul-Shanidar
cervical spines are the most complete thus far recovered from ancient
times. In general the neck vertebrae of the Neanderthals are not as
different from those of modern man as earlier studies had indicated.

Archeology.—Dr. Waldo R. Wedel, curator of archeology, made
some headway in the preparation of field reports on the 1952 investiga-
tions by the Smithsonian Institution and Princeton University at the
Horner site near Cody, Wyo., and of the report on field work for the
River Basin Surveys in 1951, and again in 1955-57, in Stanley County,
S. Dak. In addition, he completed for publication in a dedicatory
pamphlet projected by the Museum of the Great Plains, Lawton,
Okla., a paper on some archeological problems in the Great Plains,
and began work on a paper dealing with the High Plains and their
utilization by the Indian, essentially an ecological study of native
man and environment in the heart of what was once known as the
Great American Desert. He also read proof on his book, “Prehistoric
Man on the Great Plains,” being published by the University of
Oklahoma Press.

Early in the year, as a result of the discovery near Littleton, Colo.,
of a late Pleistocene bone bed with possible human associations,
68 U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1961

Dr. Wedel, in conjunction with Dr. C. Lewis Gazin, curator of verte-
brate paleontology, developed plans to explore the site. Field work
was initiated in June, with museum aide George Metcalf conducting
the field operations.

During the summer of 1960 associate curator Clifford Evans and
his wife, honorary research associate Betty J. Meggers, attended the
34th International Congress of Americanists in Vienna, Austria, and
the 6th International Congress of Anthropological and Ethnological
Sciences in Paris, France, reporting on the results of their recent re-
search. Before and after the congresses, they studied South Ameri-
ean archeological collections in museums in Norway, Sweden, Den-
mark, Austria, Switzerland, and France. While in France Drs. Evans
and Meggers also visited the following sites of the Paleolithic period:
Lascaux, Laugerie Haute, Laugerie Basse, Combarelles, Abri de Cap
Blane, Les Eyzies, Abee Pichaud, and Le Moustier.

The obsidian dating project, under Dr. Evans’ supervision, got un-
der way in September when Dr. Donavan Clark arrived from Stan-
ford University to assume the position of research assistant in the
division of archeology. Since then Dr. Clark has examined and
measured the hydration layers in over 600 specimens from various
parts of the world.

Drs. Evans and Meggers continued their study of the cultural
sequences of Coastal Ecuador in conjunction with Emilio Estrada,
Director of the Museo Arqueolégico “Victor Emilio Estrada,” of
Guayaquil, Ecuador, who was in Washington during parts of March
and April.

Associate curator Gus W. Van Beek developed plans for a program
of research in South Arabian culture history, involving an expedition
to depart for Arabia in the fall of 1961. Accordingly much time dur-
ing the spring was spent in organizing the expedition, selecting equip-
ment, and making necessary arrangements with the various officials of
the area in which the investigations will take place.

Dr. Van Beek continued work on a monograph entitled “Hajar Bin
Humeid,” which will be the final report on the excavation of the South
Arabian site of that name and will contain the first pottery chronology
of the area. He also collaborated in the preparation of a report on a
squeeze of a South Arabian stamp seal discovered in the collections of
the Vienna Academy by Dr. Albert Jamme, research professor, Cath-
olic University of America. The stamp seal from which the squeeze

Exhibits worker (top) applying detail to map locating sites of prehis-
toric Eskimo cultures in the Arctic. Among the decorated artifacts
(bottom) are knives, handles, harpoon heads, and figurines made of
walrus ivory. They illustrate the various art styles around Bering
Strait from 300 BC to AD 1000.
69

AND RESEARCH

INVESTIGATION

MASTERPIECES OF PREHISTORIC ESKIMO

70 U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1961

was made is virtually identical to a stamp found in Palestine in 1957
and jointly published by Drs. Van Beek and Jamme.

Museum aide George Metcalf made considerable progress on the
analysis of data in connection with the preparation of a monograph on
the Davis Creek site in central Nebraska.

Honorary research associate Neil M. Judd continued his research on
the archeological materials from Chaco Canyon, N. Mex., which he
collected years ago for the National Geographic Society.

Physical anthropology.—From the first of June until the latter
part of August, curator T. Dale Stewart participated in a jointly
sponsored Columbia University-Smithsonian Institution expedition
to Iraq. Between June 3, the date of his arrival in Baghdad, and July
16, when he departed for Shanidar in northern Iraq, Dr. Stewart spent
most of his time in the Iraq Museum restoring and studying the skull
and associated vertebrae of Shanidar II, the Neanderthal found in
1957 about 23 feet below the present floor of the cave at Shanidar
and thus suggesting an age of around 60,000 years. From July 18
to August 15 he aided in the recovery and removal of three new
Neanderthal skeletons from the cave. Study of the new finds could
not be undertaken this year and will require a return visit to the
country. However, Dr. Stewart was able before leaving Baghdad to
prepare a description of the Shanidar II skull for publication in
Sumer.

Before leaving for Iraq Dr. Stewart amplified a paper he had read
at the annual meeting of the American Association of Physical
Anthropologists in 1959. This had to do with the unusual morphology
of the mastoid region in the Shanidar I Neanderthal and the possibility
of deducing therefrom that the Swanscombe skull fragments from
England, attributed to the last interglacial period, had the same
structures and therefore likely the same primitive appearance of the
face.

The research of associate curator Marshall T. Newman included the
preparation of papers on such topics as evolutionary changes in body
size and head form in American Indians, the physiology of Middle
American Indians, the biological adaptation of man to his environ-
ment, generalizations on phenotypic and genotypic differences among
American Indians, and ecology and nutritional stress in man. These
papers were presented at various symposia and seminars. Dr. New-
man also completed two chapters of his Vicos monograph, which in-
volved the recasting of the metric data and the analyzing of eight
blood group systems. Not only did this relate to the Quechua Indians
of Vicos but to other Indians for which suitable data are available.
At the end of the year he was preparing to return to Peru for his final
field study at Vicos.
INVESTIGATION AND RESEARCH TAL

Lounge, with a view of the Mall, provides a place for changing topical
exhibits in the new hall of North American archeology, and a change
of pace for Museum visitors.

Anthropological aide Lucile E. Hoyme visited the laboratories of
the Eastman Kodak Company in Rochester, N.Y., in November.
While there she consulted with the staff, and with W. S. Cornwell
in particular, on various radiographic problems that arise in the
course of her work in the division and received intensive instruction
in hew radiographic techniques.

Ethnology.—Curator Saul H. Riesenberg was occupied through-
out the year with planning for the new ethnological halls. Also, he
served as convener of the symposium on ethnohistory of the 10th
Pacific Science Congress, scheduled to meet in Honolulu in August—
September 1961. In this capacity he arranged for the participation of
yarlous persons from several nations and for the editing and publish-
ing in a scientific journal of all papers to be presented.

Associate curator Gordon D. Gibson spent most of the year in
ethnological field work and in collecting among the Herero of south-
west Africa and Bechuanaland. He was on his way home via Europe
at the close of the year.

Associate curator Eugene I. Knez, like Dr. Riesenberg, was mainly
occupied this year with exhibit problems. However, he was able to
complete for publication a preliminary paper on mutual aid groups of
UZ U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1961

Korea. Also he continued his research pertaining to change in Korean
village technology.

Research by visiting investigators.—Among the distinguished
visitors and scientists who utilized the collections and other resources
of the department of anthropology in furthering their research were
the following:

Carlos Zevallos Menendez, Casa de la Cultura Niucleo del Guyas, Guayaquil,
Ecuador; Naotune Watanabe, Shozo Masudo, and Namio Egami, University of
Tokyo, Japan; John Murra, Vassar College; José Rafael Arboleda, Universidad
Javeriana, Bogota, Colombia; Luis Aveleyra Arroyo de Anda, Museo Nacional,
Mexico; Frederico Engel, Institute of Prehistoric Archeology, Lima, Peru;
Hansjurgen Miiller-Beck, Historiska Museum, Bern, Switzerland; Artur Hehl
Neiva, Catholic University, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil; Edward V. McMichael,
Charleston, W. Va.; Ripley Bullen, Florida State Museum; James A. Ford,
American Museum of Natural History; Raymond S. Baby, Ohio State Museum ;
Alex Krieger, University of Washington; Paul A. Clement, University of Cali-
fornia at Los Angeles ; Immanuel Ben-Dor, Emory University ; Ray L. Cleveland,
W. F. Albright, and George Kratkoff, Johns Hopkins University ; Albert Jamme,
Catholic University of America; William Y. Adams, UNESCO; A. Henry
Detweiler and W. L. Reed, Cornell University; Charles Fritsch, Princeton
Theological Seminary; Prescott H. Williams, Jr., Austin Theological Seminary ;:
Ralph 8. Solecki, Columbia University.

Melvin L. Moss, Columbia University ; Montague W. Cobb and Janet A. Hartle,
Howard University; John A. Cooper, Honolulu, Hawaii; H. J. Mehta, B. J.
Medical College, Ahmedabad, India; Howard Shaub and Bonita J. Peterson,
Baltimore, Md.; Juan R. Munezaga, University of Chile; Martin Gusinde,
Catholic University of America; Tadeusz Bielicki, Catholic University, Lublin,
Poland; E. Davalos Hurtado, Instituto Nacional de Antropologia e Historia,
Mexico; H. Karplus, L. Greenberg Institute of Forensic Medicine, Jaffa, Israel;
D. F. Roberts, Oxford University, England; Elwyn Simons, Yale University;
Unto Uatilo, Helsinki, Finland; Gerardo Zapata, Don Fernando Medical School,
Lima, Peru.

Omer C. Stewart, University of Colorado; Norman Feder, Museum of the
American Indian; Colin Turnbull, American Museum of Natural History; James
B. Byrnes, North Carolina Museum of Art; C. R. H. Taylor, Alexander Turnbull
Library, Wellington, New Zealand; Aarne A. Koskinen, Academia Scientiarum
Fennica, Helsinki; Robert B. Inverarity, Adirondack Museum; Wan Soo Han
and Sang Guk Abn, Seoul, Korea; Dilowa Hutukhtu (Living Buddha), Mongolia;
Urgunge Onon, Mongolia; Herbert H. Vreeland III, Washington, D.C.; H. H.
Pian, Cambridge, Mass.

Zoology

After 52 years of service on the Museum staff, Dr. Herbert Fried-
mann retired as head curator May 31, 1961, to become director of the
Los Angeles County Museum. His bulletin on the parasitic weaver-
birds was published, and the latest of this series of monographs,
“Host Relations of the Parasitic Cowbirds,” was accepted for pub-
lication by the National Museum.

Mammals.—Curator David H. Johnson continued to study the
mammals of the southeastern Asiatic and Pacific Ocean areas, and
INVESTIGATION AND RESEARCH 73

in addition he began a survey of the existing specimens and records
of mammals collected by the United States Exploring Expedition
of 1838-1842. Brief visits to Philadelphia in September and to
Boston, New York, and Philadelphia in March were devoted to these
projects.

Associate curator Henry W. Setzer continued to identify and report
on the mammals collected in Egypt and adjacent countries by U.S.
Naval Medical Research Unit No. 3. A paper describing two new
Egyptian mammals was published. From early March until mid-May,
Dr. Setzer participated in the Smithsonian-Collins Expedition to
Libya, which was organized and led by Robert L. Pomeroy and Alan
C. Collins. The party traveled overland from Benghazi by way of
Cufra Oasis to Faya in northern Tchad, investigated the little-known
Tibesti Mountains on the Libyan-Tchad frontier, and returned to the
Mediterranean coast by way of Sebha Oasis. In all, the party traveled
about 5,000 miles, and Dr. Setzer obtained a valuable collection of
mammals. Enroute to join the expedition, he spent three days in early
March at the British Museum (Natural History) in London, compar-
ing type specimens of various European and African mammals.

Associate curator Charles O. Handley, Jr., continued his taxonomic
studies of mammals from the Neotropical region and from the south-
eastern United States. He also completed a manuscript on the ma-
rine mammals of the Middle Atlantic coast of the United States.

Birds.—Curator Herbert G. Deignan read proof of his bulletin on
the type specimens of birds in the National Museum, published this
year, and of his checklist of the birds of Thailand.

Bernard R. Feinstein, museum aide, spent the year in South Viet-
nam collecting with an expedition jointly conducted by the Bernice
P. Bishop Museum of Honolulu and the U.S. Army Medical Research
and Development Command.

Dr. Alexander Wetmore, honorary research associate and former
Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, resumed his field studies
in Panama from January to April and continued the study of his
Panamanian and Colombian collections.

Reptiles and amphibians.—Curator Doris M. Cochran and Dr.
C. J. Goin, of the University of Florida, continued their studies on
Colombian frogs and published the description of a new genus and
species in connection with those studies. Her Museum bulletin
“Type Specimens of Reptiles and Amphibians in the U.S. National
Museum,” was published.

Fishes—Curator Leonard P. Schultz and Dr. Carl L. Hubbs, of
the Scripps Institution of Oceanography, completed a study of the
nomenclature of the nominal genus Oregonichthys and the blennioid
fish, Pholis schultz. With Dorothea B. Schultz and Randy Mardres,

609091—61——6
74 U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1961

the curator supervised the preparation of additional microscope slide
sections of fossil shark teeth as a preliminary to the proposed study
of fossil shark teeth of Chesapeake Bay as compared with the teeth
of living sharks. With Dr. Lachner, he continued the preparation of
the third and final volume of “Fishes of the Marshall and Marianas
Islands.”

Dr. Schultz has also directed several continuing programs dealing
with sharks: Dr. Carter R. Gilbert has nearly completed a revision
of the hammerhead sharks, genus Sphyrna; Mrs. Marilyn Malin has
assisted in the preparation of a documented file of shark attacks
throughout the world, and one paper, in collaboration with Dr. Perry
W. Gilbert and Stewart Springer, on attacks during 1959 was com-
pleted during the fiscal year; Dr. Victor G. Springer is revising the
sharks related to the genus Scoliodon; and Dr. J. A. F. Garrick has
started a revision of the carcharhinid sharks of the Indo-Pacific
region.

Associate curator Ernest A. Lachner, with Dr. Earl E. Deubler,
Jr., completed a nomenclatural study of the rosyside dace of eastern
North America. Dr. Lachner has also completed the manuscript on
the family Echeneidae and has nearly finished the manuscripts on
the families Gobiidae, Eleotridae, and Taenioididae for the final
volume of the “Fishes of the Marshall and Marianas Islands,” re-
ferred to above. He has continued his study of the diskfishes, order
Kcheneiformes, and his revisions of the cardinal fishes, family Apo-
gonidae, and of the goatfishes, family Mullidae.

Associate curator William R. Taylor has completed the manuscript
on the fishes of the Arnhem Land Expedition of 1948 and has sub-
mitted it for publication in Australia. He has also essentially com-
pleted his revision of the North American catfishes of the genus
Noturus.

Insects.—Curator J. F. Gates Clarke delivered an invitational paper
on host specificity in certain moths at the XI International Congress
of Entomology held in Vienna in August. Several visits to the
Vienna Museum afforded the opportunity to examine and study
numerous types of Neotropical Microlepidoptera in connection with
researches being conducted on that fauna. While in Europe, Dr.
Clarke also took advantage of the opportunity to study for a month
at the British Museum (Natural History), where many types of the
same group were examined. His continuing work on the Meyrich
types of Microlepidoptera has progressed well during the year; proof
has been read on volume four, and more than 200 plates have been
completed for volume five. Dr. Clarke’s research on the Neotropical]
Microlepidoptera has also received a great deal of attention, and one
small paper on this fauna was completed.
INVESTIGATION AND RESEARCH 15

Associate curator Oscar L. Cartwright has completed his extensive
study of the genus Onthophagus (Scarabaeidae) and is continuing his
research on the genus Ataenius in the same family. Species of both
genera are important as suspected intermediate hosts of parasites of
domestic and other animals.

Associate curator Ralph E. Crabill, Jr., completed his work in
European museums in August 1960, having begun this study trip im
March. From February 13 to March 13, he examined typical and
ordinary specimens of Chilopoda at the Museum of Comparative
Zoology in connection with his study of this group of animals, con-
cerning which several significant papers have been published. On
May 31, 1961, Dr. Crabill left again for study in London, Hamburg,
and Frankfurt.

Associate curator William D. Field is continuing his studies on the
Lycaenidae and is also working on the genus Ceramidia, a group of
moths destructive to bananas. A paper in preparation on this genus
is important because it proposes to provide a ready means of identify-
ing these banana pests. Following a trip to Atlanta, Ga., in June
in connection with the acquisition of a collection, Mr. Field undertook
a visit to the mountainous regions of North and South Carolina to
conduct field work on Rhopalocera.

Associate curator Oliver S. Flint, Jr., is engaged in research on the
immature stages of the Trichoptera (caddis flies), and he is acquir-
ing much needed material to fill the many gaps in our collection. In
addition to week-end field trips to procure material, Dr. Flint, in May
1961, visited Cornell University, obtaining more than 200 specimens
of Neotropical species for study, and from June 3 to 10, conducted field
investigations in the vicinity of Highlands, N.C., an area in which are
many relic forms and one from which we have nothing of this group
in the national collection.

Marine Invertebrates.—Curator Fenner A. Chace, Jr., completed
his joint manuscript with Harry Pederson and the late Conrad Lim-
baugh on the fish-cleaning habits and life color patterns of six species
of caridean and stenopodidean shrimps.

Associate curator Frederick M. Bayer has completed the revision
and correction of the second page proof of his handbook of shallow-
water West Indian octocorals now in press in the Netherlands.

Associate curator Thomas E. Bowman, in collaboration with Z.
Kabata, of the Marine Laboratory at Aberdeen, Scotland, completed
a manuscript reassigning the lernaeopodoid copepod Z'racheliastes
grandis Wilson to the genus Vanbenedenia, as asynonym of V. hroyeri
Malmgren, based upon a thorough redescription of Wilson’s holotype
specimen. He has brought to virtual completion the description of a
new species of the copepod genus 77she, including an account of its
76 U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1961

developmental stages reared in the divisional laboratory. Finally, he
has made some progress upon his study of the calanoid copepods col-
lected off the southeastern coast of the United States by the M/V
Theodore N. Gill.

Associate curator Charles E. Cutress, Jr., began a report on the sea
anemones of Port Phillip Bay, Australia, and continued his study of
the sea anemones of the Chatham Islands Expedition of 1954.

Mrs. LaNelle W. Peterson, museum aide, in addition to her other
duties, has made steady progress in the preparation of a catalogue of
the octocorallian type specimens contained in the museum’s collec-
tions; this study has been of unexpected value by bringing to light
more than 90 lots of type material that had been improperly incor-
porated in the general study collections. She has also thoroughly
reorganized and completed the locality records included in a major
manuscript on Pacific tunicates in the national collections recently
prepared by Takasi Tokioka, of the Seto Marine Biological
Laboratory, Japan.

J. Percy Moore, honorary research associate, now in his 93rd year,
continues his research activities in spite of many obstacles. He writes
that “research on leeches has continued actively but with limitations
imposed by certain personal problems. Most attention was given to
large collections submitted by the U.S. National Museum and Tulane
University, supplemented by other small lots of leeches of our southern
Gulf states. While a large body of notes and drawings is on hand,
further studies will be made before a manuscript will be prepared.”
A few months ago, Dr. Moore’s laboratory was vandalized and the re-
sults of many years of study destroyed or severely damaged, a blow
that would have felled many a younger man. However, he advises us
that some progress has been made toward the restoration and identifica-
tion of whole mounts and serial sections that were intermixed, broken,
or otherwise damaged, although he expects that “it will take most of
my remaining life to restore them.” During the year he completed
an account of his personal recollections of Joseph Leidy, whom he knew
from boyhood days, to be published by the American Society of Zoolo-
gists in a volume on distinguished zoologists.

Mildred S. Wilson, honorary research associate, has completed in
collaboration with J.C. Tash a manuscript on the life cycles of calanoid
copepods in shallow lakes of the Cape Thompson region, Alaska, and
she has begun a manuscript on copepods of Nuwuk Peninsula, Point

Jarrow, Alaska. In addition, she has continued to make progress
on her monograph of the fresh-water calanoid copepods of North
America, a long range study.

Horton H. Hobbs, Jr., honorary research associate, has completed,

with H. Hf. Hobbs, IIT, a paper describing a new crayfish of the genus
INVESTIGATION AND RESEARCH AA

Cambarus from Georgia. In addition, he has undertaken (with P.
C. Holt and Margaret Walton) an intensive survey of the crayfishes
and their commensal associates in the region of Mountain Lake, Va.,
made further progress on a manuscript (with T. C. Barr) dealing with
troglobitic crayfishes of the genus Orconectes, continued work on a
paper describing the ostracods of the genus H’ntocythere from Mexico
and Cuba, and another (with A. Villalobos) on crayfishes from Cuba,
and nearly completed a manuscript on troglobitic ostracods of the
genus Entocythere (with C. W. Hart). He has also found time to
identify approximately 1,000 specimens for other persons and to make
a collecting trip into West Virginia, southern Ohio, and Kentucky,
during which he obtained about 500 additional specimens for his study
collection. He reports that his collection has increased by some 3,000
specimens through gifts.

Dr. L. B. Holthuis, curator of Crustacea at the Rijksmuseum van
Natuurlijke Historie, Leiden, The Netherlands, during a temporary
appointment to Smithsonian rolls under the program of systematic
studies on Pacific marine animals, reached an advanced stage in his
monographic study of seyllarid and palinurid lobsters and completed
a manuscript describing the new species involved, before returning to
his permanent post.

Mrs. Beatrice L. Burch, general systematic zoologist on temporary
appointment under the Pacific program, has completed an inventory
of the unidentified Indo-Pacific marine invertebrates contained in our
collections, amounting to 23,000 lots containing over 200,000 specimens
and representing 64 major invertebrate groups.

As usual, a large share of the burden of marine invertebrate identi-
fication services was borne by collaborating specialists in other institu-
tions, in most cases for no more recognition than a word of thanks.
This year, 26 specialists have agreed to identify material of several in-
vertebrate groups which owing to limitation of staff and time could
not be handled within the division. The individuals listed below have
received 35 shipments containing 1,931 specimens:

Dr. M. Bacescu: mysidacean crusta- Dr. R. U. Gooding: copepod crustaceans.

ceans. Dr. E. H. Grainger: starfishes.
Dr. J. Laurens Barnard: amphipod )fiss Janet Haig: porcellanid crabs.
crustaceans. Dr. Willard D. Hartman: sponges.
Dr. E. L. Bousfield: amphipod crusta- Dr. Dora P. Henry: barnacles
ceans. :
7 : Dr. L. B. Holthuis: decapod and stoma-
Dr. David B. Causey: copepod crusta-

topod crustaceans.
Dr. Libbie H. Hyman: flatworms.
Mr. Wilfred Kings : hydroids.
Mr. Raymond B. Manning: stomatopod

ceans.
Dr. Ralph W. Dexter: fairy shrimps.
Dr. John S. Garth: crabs.
Dr. Gordon E. Gates: earthworms.
Mr. Robert Given: cumacean crusta- crustaceans.

ceans, Dr. Marvin C. Meyer : leeches.
78 U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1961

Dr. Donald R. Moore: starfishes. Mr. Lowell P. Thomas: ophiuroids.
Dr. William A. Newman: barnacles. Dr. W. Vervoort: hydroids and hydro-
Mr. Harrison Steeves III: isopod crus- corals.
taceans. Dr. Marvin L. Wass: hermit crabs.
Dr. Olive S. Tattersall: mysidacean Dr. Harry C. Yeatman: copepod crus-
crustaceans. taceans.

Mollusks.—Curator Harald A. Rehder devoted most of his re-
search time to work on the Indo-Pacific marine molluscan fauna,
starting with a study of the family Tellinidae of the area. In addi-
tion, he completed a number of smaller papers, one on the Pleistocene
mollusks of Grand Cayman, and another on the status of the generic
name Nucella. In October, Dr. Rehder joined a party of scientists
who conducted a survey of Jaluit Atoll in the southern Marshall Is-
lands; he spent six days studying the malacclogical collections in the
Bernice P. Bishop Museum in Honolulu and ten days, from Octo-
ber 20 to 29, on Jaluit, collecting a representation of the marine mol-
luscan fauna and studying the ecology of the reefs.

In connection with the Museum’s program of study of Pacific
marine animals, Dr. Joseph Rosewater, under the direction of Dr.
Rehder, has completed a monograph of the family Pinnidae and has
initiated studies on the families Tridacnidae and Littorinidae.

Associate curator Joseph P. E. Morrison continued his studies of
the family Melampidae and of certain brackish water genera of the
Mactridae. He also presented, at the meetings of the American
Malacological Union, in Montreal, a paper on the bivalved gastropods
of the family Julidae.

Research by visiting investigators—Among visiting scientists
who studied the research collections of mammals during the year
were:

W. Herbert L. Alsopp, British Guiana Department of Agriculture; Sydney
Anderson and Joseph C. Moore, American Museum of Natural History; Rollin
H. Baker, Michigan State University; John HE. Frisch, University of Chicago;
Carl L. Hubbs, Seripps Institution of Oceanography, University of California ;
Hans HE. Kaiser, University of Tiibingen, Germany; H. V. Komarek, Thomasville,
Georgia; Karl F. Koopman, Chicago Natural History Museum; Philip Krutzsch,
University of Pittsburgh; Kenneth I. Lange and Howard Uible, Washington,
D.C.; Thomas H. Manning, Canadian Wildlife Service; Eustorgio Mendez, Gor-
gas Memorial Laboratory, Panama; Mrs. Bahtire Mursaloglu, University of
Ankara, Turkey; Howard J. Stains, Southern Illinois University; William L.
Straus, Johns Hopkins University; and Richard W. Thorington, Jr., Harvard
University.

Among those who worked in the division of birds were:

Robert W. Dickerman, University of Minnesota; Ricardo Novatti, Argentine
Antarctie Institute, Buenos Aires; Harry C. Oberholser, Cleveland, Ohio; Allan
R. Phillips, Globe, Ariz.; Max C. Thompson, Udall, Kans.; and Francis 8. L.
Williamson, Anchorage, Alaska.
INVESTIGATION AND RESEARCH. 79

Specialists working in the division of reptiles and amphibians
included :

Joseph R. Bailey, Duke University ; R. Edgren, Philadelphia, Pa.; Carl Gans,
University of Buffalo; Coleman J. Goin, University of Florida; Richard Highton,
University of Maryland; W. Gardner Lynn, Catholic University of America;
Albert Schwartz, Albright College; and EH. H. Taylor, University of Kansas.

Among ichthyologists who studied material in the division of fishes
were:

Elbert H. Ahlstrum, Frederick H. Berry, and W. W. Anderson, U.S. Fish and
Wildlife Service; Joseph R. Bailey, Duke University ; E. Bertelsen, Copenhagen,
Denmark; Rolf Bolin, Hopkins Marine Station, Stanford University; David C.
Caldwell and Mrs. Caldwell, Los Angeles County Museum; C. EH. Dawson, Gulf
Coast Research Laboratory; Robert W. Harrington, Vero Beach, Fla.; Carl L.
Hubbs and Mrs. Hubbs, Scripps Institution of Oceanography, University of
California; L. Krefft, Institute of Seafisheries, Germany; William Massmann,
Virginia Fisheries Laboratory; Robert R. Miller, University of Michigan; Theo-
dore Monod and Hmile Postel, Muséum National d’Histoire Naturelle, Paris;
Yaichiro Okada, Prefectural University of Mie, Japan; John EH. Randall, Marine
Laboratory, University of Miami; Robert D. Ross, Virginia Polytechnic Insti-
tute; Frank Schwartz, Maryland Department of Research and Education;
Donald ©. Scott, University of Georgia; Gerald Smith and T. Uyeno, University
of Michigan; John Stephens, Occidental College, Los Angeles; Royal D. Suttkus,
Tulane University; V. D. Vladykov, University of Ottawa, Canada; Norman
Wilimovsky, University of British Columbia; and Ralph W. Yerger, Florida
State University.

Among entomologists who worked in the collection of insects were:

Dr. Daley de O. Albuquerque and Mrs. Isolda Rocha e Silva Albuquerque,
Museu Nacional, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil; Edward C. Becker, W. J. Brown,
H. F. Howden, L. A. Kelton, W. H. M. Mason, and Eugene Munroe, Department
of Agriculture, Ottawa, Canada; Gordon F. Bennett, Ontario Research Founda-
tion, Toronto, Canada; Thomas Borgmeier, Jocarepagua, Brazil; George Burton,
WHO, British Guiana; James O. Harrison, Palomar Research Station, Palomar,
Costa Rica; Claude Herbulot, Paris, France; W. R. Hynd, Farnham, Surrey,
England; Gerhard Knerer, University of Toronto, Toronto, Canada; Paul Mur-
phy, University of Nottingham, Hngland; Karlis A. Princis, Zoological Insti-
tute, University of Lund, Sweden; W. R. Thompson and Mrs. Thompson, Com-
monwealth Institute of Biological Control, Ottawa, Canada; H. R. Wong,
Forestry Laboratory, Winnipeg, Manitoba, Canada; and Ing. Fernando de Zayas
and Mrs. de Zayas, Agricultural Experiment Station, Havana, Cuba.

Some of those who worked in the division of marine invertebrates
were:

Maximo Cerame-Vinos, D. C. Miller, and Joanne O’Connell, Duke University ;
Elizabeth Deichmann, Museum of Comparative Zoology, Harvard University ;
Thomas Goreau, University College of the West Indies, Mona, Jamaica; Dieter
Hantschmann and George Hechtel, Yale University; C. W. Hart, Academy of
Natural Sciences of Philadelphia; John R. Holsinger, Harrisonburg, Va.; Paul
L. Illg, University of Washington; Edwin A. Joyce, Jr., University of Florida ;
Karl Lang, Naturhistoriska Riksmuseet, Stockholm, Sweden; Alan C. Lewis,

=

—
SO U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1961

University of Hawaii; Marian H. Pettibone, University of New Hampshire;
David Raup, Johns Hopkins University; Tune Sakai, Yokohama National Uni-
versity, Kamakura, Japan; Raymond B. Manning, Lowell P. Thomas, and
Gilbert L. Voss, Marine Laboratory, University of Miami; C. W. Thomas and
John R. Thompson, U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service; David Tranter, Common-
wealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organization, Cronulla, New South
Wales, Australia; Stephen A. Wainwright, University of California; G. P. Wells,
University College of London, England; Harry Wells and Mrs. Wells, Cape Hat-
teras Marine Laboratory; Austin B. Williams, Institute of Fisheries Research,
University of North Carolina; and Fred C. Ziesenhenne, Allan Hancock
Foundation, University of Southern California.

The collections of mollusks were consulted by the following:

Sheldon C. Bergman, U.S. Geological Survey; John B. Burch, Museum of
Zoology, University of Michigan; Ian McTaggart Cowan, University of British
Columbia; Jules R. DuBar, University of Houston; Willis G. Hewatt, Texas
Christian University ; Alan J. Kohn, Florida State University; Fred W. Sieling,
Maryland Department of Research and Education; Myra L. Smith, University of
Queensland; G. Alan Solem, Chicago Natural History Museum; Ruth D. Turner,
Museum of Comparative Zoology, Harvard University; and Stephen A.
Wainwright, University of California.

Botany

Head curator Jason R. Swallen arranged for a reprinting, by the
Smithsonian Institution, of Standley’s “Trees and Shrubs of Mexico,”
a standard work which has been out of print for more than a quarter
century.

Phanerogams.—Cwator Lyman B. Smith prepared a paper on
plant migrations as a part of his studies of the phytogeography of
southern Brazil. He continued the study of his collections from
Santa Catarina along with further large collections from Padre Rau-
lino Reitz, director of the Herbario Barbosa Rodrigues. Dr. Smith
constructed keys for his monograph of the Bromeliaceae, covering
about two-thirds of the more than 1,800 species. He prepared a
treatment of the Bromeliaceae of the Guayana Highland, and, with
Dr. Bassett Maguire of the New York Botanical Garden, a similar
treatment of the Xyridaceae.

Associate curator E. C. Leonard continued the preparation of a
Flora of Hispaniola, correcting the locality data for the Dominican

Xepubhie collections in line with numerous recent changes in the de-
limitations of the provinces. He also completed an index to all the
grasses of Hispaniola. Mr. Leonard has resumed work on the Acan-
thaceae of Peru for the Chicago Natural History Museum, completing
the revision of the genus M/endoncia.

Associate curator Velva E. Rudd nearly completed her revision of
American Ormosia and expects to have it ready for publication scon.
She continued assembling data for a floristic treatment of the papilio-
INVESTIGATION AND RESEARCH Sl

nate legumes of Mexico. Dr. Rudd attended the “Primer Congreso
Mexicano de Botanica,” where she presented a paper on the Mexican
species of Ormosia. She also participated in the excursion of the
Congress, making a brief reconnaissance survey of the vegetation along
a coast to coast transect.

Associate curator Richard S. Cowan continued his monographic
studies of the genus Swartzia, completing a key to all species and
descriptions for nearly all. He completed and published his studies
of the Leguminosae collected in the Guayana Highland by Dr. Bassett
Maguire and others, and finished a short paper on miscellaneous
novelties in the Leguminosae.

Associate curator John J. Wurdack completed a detailed treatment
of the Melastomataceae of Santa Catarina, Brazil, including 13 genera
and 116 species. He continued his studies of the Melastomataceae of
the Guayana Highland with the aim of publishing a complete treat-
ment, and prepared descriptions of miscellaneous novelties in the
same family from other parts of tropical America.

Dr. A. C. Smith, Director of the Museum of Natural History, re-
sumed his work on southwestern Pacific plants by revising, in collabo-
ration with research assistant Benjamin C. Stone, the genus Genios-
toma (Loganiaceae) in that area. Progress was also made on the
families Araliaceae and Guttiferae, and Dr. Stone conducted
independent work on Pandanaceae, Rutaceae, and other groups.

Dr. José Cuatrecasas, research associate, continued his studies on
the flora of Colombia. He completed a monograph of the genus 7’heo-
broma (cacao) and continued the preparation of a revision of
Colombian Compositae consisting of approxiamtely 800 species.

Dr. Kittie F. Parker, honorary research associate, furthered her
studies of western and Mexican Compositae.

Grasses.—Head curator Jason R. Swallen continued his studies
of the grasses of southern Brazil. He also prepared a key to the
genera of grasses of Mexico, to be included in a book on Mexican
grasses, at the request of Dr. Efraim Hernandez. Two other short
papers describing new species and several book reviews were written
on request.

Dr. Thomas R. Soderstrom, assistant curator, prepared a treatment
of the species of Wuhlenbergia at one time referred to the genus
E’picampes.

Mrs. Agnes Chase, honorary research associate, continued her work
on the comprehensive catalogue of grass genera and species.

Dr. F. A. McClure, honorary research associate, advanced his studies
on the bamboos. He completed the manuscript cards of the genera
of the Bambusoideae for the “Index Nominum Genericorum,” and
furthered his treatment of the bamboo genera of the world for the
82 U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1961

new edition of “Die Natiirlichen Pflanzenfamilien.” He prepared an
article on “Bamboo” published in the Encyclopaedia Britannica and
another entitled “Toward a fuller description of the Bambusoideae”
to be published in the Kew Bulletin.

Ferns.—Curator Conrad VY. Morton continued with the study of
the ferns of tropical America, particularly with the genera blechnum,
Gleichenia, and Dicranopteris, for which revisions of the Andean
species are well under way. During the summer of 1960 he spent two
weeks in study in Europe, at the Muséum National d’Histoire Na-
turelle, Paris, the British Museum (Natural History), and the Royal
Botanic Gardens, Kew, England, where a number of type specimens
and other interesting material were studied. During these visits he
also examined material of some phanerogamic genera, notably Sola-
num and Colummea.

Cryptogams.—Dr. Mason E. Hale, associate curator in charge,
continued work on a monographic revision of the lichen genus
Parmelia in the Western Hemisphere. The collections that he made
in Mexico were chemically tested and identified, and large miscellane-
ous collections from various herbaria were studied. Michael Wirth,
a former graduate student at Harvard University, was engaged for
ten months as a research assistant and carried out much of the routine
work. Dr. Hale’s “Lichen Handbook,” was published by the Smith-
sonian Institution as a companion work to Agnes Chase’s “Handbook
of Grasses,” which the Institution recently reprinted.

Associate curator Paul Conger carried forward work on research
projects in progress, including a study of the diatoms of Chincoteague
Bay, a revision of the genus Grammatophora, and an analysis of
diatom samples of the British, Australian, and New Zealand Antarctic
Expedition.

Assistant curator Robert Ireland continued work on a long term
project of writing a moss flora for Virginia. He also studied the moss
collections made by Dr. Hale in Mexico, and started a detailed study
of several species of the moss genus Atrichum.

Woods.—Curator William L. Stern made a brief anatomical survey
of the woods of Theobroma, the genus to which cacao belongs, in
conjunction with a taxonomic study of the genus by Dr. José Cuatre-
casas. Much of his time was taken up in the organization and
curatorial work of the newly created division. For the purposes of
examining facilities, observing collections, and arranging for ex-
changes, he visited various similar laboratories.

Research by visiting investigators.—Dr. Oscar Tovar, of the Uni-
versity of San Marcos, Lima, Peru, completed his work on the grasses
of the Central Andes and returned to Peru early in December.
Tuguo Tateoka, National Institute of Genetics, Misima, Japan, spent
INVESTIGATION AND RESEARCH 83

several days at the herbarium examining specimens of critical genera
of grasses. Mrs. E. R. Faithorn, Annapolis, Md., spent a day each
week through the year studying diatoms.

More than 1,000 visitors made use of the National Herbarium and
its facilities to advance their research projects or to gather informa-
tion on a variety of subjects. Among them were:

Clair Brown, Louisiana State University; Carl Epling and Harlan Lewis,
University of California, Los Angeles; Lincoln Constance, University of Cali-
fornia, Berkeley ; George R. Proctor, The Institute of Jamaica; H. HE. Moore,
Jr., Bailey Hortorium; A. J. Sharp, University of Tennessee; R. K. Godfrey,
Florida State University; Richard A. Howard, Dr. and Mrs. Rolla M. Tryon,
Jr., Miss Edith Scamman, and Kenneth A. Wilson, Harvard University; C. B.
Heiser, Jr., Indiana University; Richard W. Holm, Stanford University; Bas-
sett Maguire and H. W. Rickett, New York Botanical Garden; Hdgar T. Wherry,
University of Pennsylvania; A. H. Smith, University of Michigan; Vernon
Ahmadjian, Clark University; Margaret Green, Candler, N.C.; Grace Howard,
University of Washington; K. Mosbach, Lund, Sweden; T. Seshadri, University
of New Delhi; A. Conger, University of Florida; J. H. Hankins and Henry Curry,
Richmond, Va.; Sherwin Carliquist and Philip A. Munz, Rancho Santa Ana
Botanic Garden; Ernst C. Abbe, University of Minnesota; Ken Shimaji, Uni-
versity of Tokyo; Oswald Tippo, University of Colorado; Lester Holdridge,
Costa Rica; C. Earle Smith, Chicago Natural History Museum; and B. Francis
Kukachka, Forest Products Laboratory.

As in the past, staff members of various Government agencies,
especially the Department of the Interior and the Department of

Agriculture, made use of the facilities of the National Herbarium in
their work.

Geology

Mineralogy and petrology.—Curator George S. Switzer completed
his annual review of the diamond industry and continued work on a
long-term research project on the sulfate and related minerals. In
August a 10-day period was spent collecting in southern Norway,
where interesting and valuable series of minerals were obtained for
the national collections. During his European visit Dr. Switzer
participated in the International Geological Congress and the second
general session of the International Mineralogical Association in
Copenhagen.

Associate curator Paul E. Desautels continued to work on a miner-
alized vein at Centreville, Va., and on the lead oxychloride minerals
of Laurium, Greece. During the year he made collecting trips to
Illinois and New Jersey, and in January he was elected president of
the Mineralogical Society of the District of Columbia.

Roy S. Clarke, Jr., chemist in the division, continued work on
tektites from Georgia and the single specimen from Martha’s Vine-
PREPARING FOSSILS.
| WITH CEEMICALS

Tn the Glass Mountains of Texas, as in
many other places in the world, limestove
: deposits contain silicified fossils, When
saeicne Meee : placed in weak acid the Hmestone dissolves
ssesiprhdiledeephantar dantertaaees haan : readily: bat the fossils, which are protected
See een by or altered to insoluble silica (a major in-
. gredicni of glass}, are anaffected. This is an
easy means of preparing delicate and elabo-
rate fossils which would be lost by any other
method.

Since 1939, Smithsonian scientists have
been collecting limestone blocks from the
Glass Mountains, About £0 tons of limestonc
have been dissolved to produce the fossils

exhibited here, a well ax hosts of others,

A TREASURE ONETT OF POSS
Boch on ted ie thw Eel, sewing Heres pony: i
sated inte tat by granond wt

TREASURE REVEALED
Bicck pornelly dimaived by atid @ thine ov ebwmdance
oe fenils

Introducing exhibits in new hall of fossil invertebrates is this explana-
tion of method by which the scientist dissolves away the limestone
in which the fossils are imbedded, using a weak solution of hydro-
chloric acid that leaves fossils separated and unharmed. Below:
Alcove in new hall, showing extinct giant shell-bearing invertebrates.

GIENYS

Nine large dioramas such as these reconstruct ancient sea-bottom habi-
tats. The plants and animals are modeled from fossils. Below:

Permian sea bottom of 200 million years ago. Fossil originals of
the plant-like animals were dissolved out of limestone from the
Glass Mountains of West Texas by process illustrated on opposite
page.

86 U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1961

yard, Mass. ‘These studies, the results of which will shortly be pub-
lished, point to a remarkable similarity in properties of tektite speci-
mens from widely separated localities, and give new descriptive data.
A completely satisfactory interpretation of these data has not been
possible, and related studies are in progress. In addition, Mr. Clarke
continued work on a long-range study of the solubility of calcium
borate minerals.

The research of associate curator E. P. Henderson continued to
be centered on meteorites and tektites. The acceleration of accessions
in these areas during the year greatly improves the national collec-
tions as a source of future research material.

Invertebrate paleontology and paleobotany.—During the year
substantial progress was made by most members of the division.
Head curator G. A. Cooper, accompanied by museum aide Henry B.
Roberts and Dr. Druid Wilson, of the U.S. Geological Survey, spent
two days at Hampton, Va., searching for Miocene invertebrate fossils
with Mr. George Webb, a local collector who guided the party. A
large collection of exceptionally fine mollusks, some new to the na-
tional collection, was obtained.

Dr. Cooper and research assistant Richard E. Grant have made
excellent progress on their Glass Mountains brachiopod studies. To
date they have described 459 species belonging to 109 genera, of which
32 genera are new. The manuscript now totals 2336 pages. At the
close of the fiscal year Dr. Cooper and Dr. Grant were conducting
field work in New Mexico, Texas, and adjacent States, collecting
invertebrate fossils and studying Pennsylvanian and Permian strata
in the Glass, Chinati, and Guadalupe Mts. Dr. Cooper was elected
president of the Geological Society of Washington in December.

Dr. Richard S. Boardman, associate curator in charge of the division,
continued work on the revision of the genera of Paleozoic treposto-
matous bryozoans. Study photographs, revised generic concepts, and
sorting of thin sections have been completed for 14 genera and the
included species. Dr. Boardman spent July, August, and part of Sep-
tember collecting lower Paleozoic fossils in Sweden. The collections
made will provide the Museum with good reference collections to com-
pare with American faunas. He also took advantage of this European
trip to attend the International Geological Congress in Copenhagen.

Associate curator Porter M. Kier has completed his monograph on
the cassiduloid echinoids. In June 1960 he visited Europe to study
specimens in museums in Paris, Geneva, Basel, Liege, London, and
Cambridge. He photographed many type specimens, which will be
published in the monograph. This restudy of type specimens has
shown that many of the species have been inaccurately described and
has revealed several evolutionary trends, thus resulting in a new and
INVESTIGATION AND RESEARCH 87

more natural classification. In addition to other projects, Dr. Kier is
working on the redescription of the Paleozoic echinoids from Belgium.
These echinoids were described in 1929 by R. T. Jackson. However,
the specimens were not completely cleaned and many important fea-
tures were therefore not described. As this fauna of Paleozoic echi-
noids is the largest in the world, 25 species, its redescription should
prove of interest. All specimens have been cleaned, photographed,
and described, and the manuscript is approaching completion.

Dr. Kier joined Dr. Druid Wilson, of the U.S. Geological Survey,
on a collecting trip in Alabama and Georgia in April. Many Pale-
ocene and Eocene echinoids were collected, including one large slab,
covered with many sand dollars, now exhibited in the new hall of
fossils.

Associate curator Richard Cifelli accompanied Dr. Ralph Imlay,
of the U.S. Geological Survey, to the western interior of the country
and collected Foraminifera from the key Jurassic sections. In Au-
gust, November, January, and May, Dr. Cifelli made collections of
pelagic Foraminifera from plankton hauls between Woods Hole and
Bermuda. This is a project conducted in cooperation with the Woods
Hole Oceanographic Institution, to study the seasonal variation of
pelagic Foraminifera. In April and May, Dr. Cifelli was aboard the
Woods Hole research vessel Chain on a cruise to the eastern equatorial
Atlantic. Scientists on the ship made plankton hauls between Ber-
muda and the equator, took five bottom cores, and collected several
bottom samples. These are very important collections because they
come from a remote, not easily accessible part of the world. The
Foraminifera from these collections will be studied in cooperation
with Woods Hole.

Dr. Cifelli is preparing for publication a study of the morphology
and internal structure of Streblus beccarti (Linné). This is a key
species in the classification of a large group of Foraminifera and its
internal structure has been misinterpreted, affecting the classification
of the group. The sampling program for the seasonal variation study
of pelagic Foraminifera was completed this year, all material has been
examined, and preliminary identifications of species have been made.

Dr. Erle G. Kauffman, associate curator, completed a major study
of Mesozoic paleontology, stratigraphy, and paleoecology in south-
central Colorado, started before he joined the Museum. He plans to
publish the work in sections in the Journal of Paleontology and the
Bulletin of the American Association of Petroleum Geologists. Dr.
Kauffman has also initiated a broad program of study on the pelecy-
pod genus Znoceramus in North America, primarily concerned with
the formation of a working species concept, redefinition of the existing
species, description of new forms, and biostratigraphic zonation.
Reconstruction of Cambrian black-mud sea bottom of 500 million years
ago. Plants and animals of this period were first recognized and
described by Charles D. Walcott, fourth Secretary of Smithsonian
Institution. Below: Eurypterid, or sea scorpion, about 3 feet long,
from the brackish Silurian sea that covered the Buffalo, N.Y., area
about 320 million years ago.

Cephalopods, brachiopods, trilobites, and other animals in a coral-reef
habitat in the Silurian sea near the Rochester, N.Y., area 350 million
years ago. Below: Devonian sea bottom 250 million years ago.
The flower-like clusters are coral polyps.

609091—61

ry
‘

90 U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1961

In July and August, Dr. Kauffman accompanied a party from the
University of Michigan on a paleontological expedition to the coal
fields of central Alaska and the Kenai Peninsula. Large collections
of fossil plants were made, but vertebrate and invertebrate fossils were
not discovered in the lower Tertiary sediments examined. During
the fall, many of the classical Maryland Upper Cretaceous localities
were revisited and extensive invertebrate faunas collected. This is
part of a restudy of the Maryland Cretaceous stratigraphy and in-
vertebrate paleontology now under way by several workers.

Museum aide Henry B. Roberts completed a manuscript on the
fossil and Recent decapod crustaceans from Marshall Island bore
holes, to be published by the U.S. Geological Survey. He 1s also
working on a new species of decapod crustacean of the genus Retro-
cypoda that is the first record of the genus in the United States.

Dr. C. Wythe Cooke, honorary research associate, is continuing his
studies on the Mesozoic and Tertiary Echinoidea, and R. S. Bassler,
honorary research associate, is continuing his study of leperditid
ostracods. Dr. Allison R. Palmer, of the U.S. Geological Survey,
was attached to the department for a month while visiting museums
and universities in Australia; he brought back beautifully prepared
casts of important Cambrian trilobites which will make a valuable
addition to the Museum’s trilobite collection.

Vertebrate paleontology.—Curator C. Lewis Gazin has advanced
his investigation of the lower Eocene mammalian faunas of the Knight
formation, having completed study of all but one of the thirteen
orders of mammals then extant. Only the Perissodactyla, a relatively
large and diversified group as early as Eocene time, remains to be
reviewed. A part of this study concerned with sciuravid rodents was
abstracted and submitted for publication separately in order to place
on record more promptly certain new genera and species. The Knight
investigation is supplemental to a report published in 1952 and is
based on later, more extensive collections from a variety of localities
representing successive horizons in the lower Eocene of Wyoming.

Dr. Gazin completed a report on the occurrences of Paleocene Mam-
malia in various Tertiary basins of deposition in Wyoming for the
guidebook of the 1961 field conference of the Wyoming Geological
Association. In this were discussed the history of exploration and
research, the results of faunal studies, and the evidence on which
correlations have been made between basins and with regions outside
the State.

Tn connection with his general study of early Tertiary mammals,
Dr. Gazin spent the early part of this year and the latter part of
the preceding year reviewing and studying collections in the principal
natural history museums of Europe. This included in particular
INVESTIGATION AND RESEARCE OI

detailed examination of upper Paleocene mammals from Cernay,
France, in the Muséum National d’Histoire Naturelle, Paris, and
various lower Eocene to Oligocene collections in museums at Lyon,
Basel, Stuttgart, Frankfurt, Vienna, Brussels, and London, as well as
Paris.

While in Europe Dr. Gazin attended, as the delegate for the Smith-
sonian Institution and for the Society of Vertebrate Paleontology, the
meetings of the International Geological Congress held in Copenhagen
in August. He also participated in an international symposium on
early mammals held at the Institut Royal des Sciences Naturelles,
Brussels, and later attended the Sth symposium on vertebrate paleon-
tology and comparative anatomy held at Oxford University.

Associate curator David H. Dunkle interrupted his studies of
Mesozoic origins of living orders of ray-finned fishes early this year
in order to accept a two-year appointment with the U.S. Geological
Survey, to participate in a training program in Pakistan, involving
the teaching of modern research and laboratory methods in paleon-
tology in connection with a State Department project.

Associate curator Nicholas Hotton III has continued his study of
Permian reptiles. He investigated the occurrence of a large Miocene
baleen whale near Hampton, Va., reported to the Museum by George
Webb of that city, in September. Accompanied by Dr. Frank C.
Whitmore, Jr., of the U.S. Geological Survey, and Kurt F. Hau-
schildt, of the laboratory of vertebrate paleontology, he spent a week
in the excavation of this whale, unusual for so early a stage in the
Tertiary. Also, in the company of William E. Moran, formerly of
our laboratory of vertebrate paleontology, he investigated localities
for Mississippian tetrapods in the vicinity of Greer, W. Va., where
Mr. Moran had earlier located remains of a labyrinthodont am-
phibian; and at Fairchance, Pa., at the Greer limestone quarry they
were successful in finding remarkably good material of an embolom-
erous amphibian.

In February, Dr. Hotton left for South Africa for an extended
collecting season in the famous Karroo beds. In this work he was
furnished every accommodation by Dr. A. S. Brink, of the Bernard
Price Institute for Paleontological Research at the University of
Witwatersrand in Johannesburg, and was helped immeasurably in
the field by the Institute’s field officer, J. W. Kitching, whose
knowledge of the Karroo region is second to none. Considerable
success was achieved in securing many skulls and other skeletal por-
tions of a variety of Permian and Triassic vertebrate forms, none of
which were previously represented in the collections of the Museum.
This work is continuing at the close of the fiscal year.
92 U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1961

Research by visiting investigators.—Among those who worked in
the division of mineralogy and petrology during the year were:

Paul D. Lowman, Jr., National Aeronautics and Space Administration; John
D. Gassaway, George Washington University ; Alvin J. Cohen, Mellon Institute ;
E. C. T. Chao, U.S. Geological Survey.

Several foreign and American visitors have been working on in-
vertebrate fossil materials:

A. K. Miller, W. M. Furnish, and Richard Moyle, University of Iowa; R. C.
Moore, University of Kansas; Norman D. Newell, American Museum of Natural
History ; Roger Batten, University of Wisconsin ; Harry B. Whittington, Museum
of Comparative Zoology; June R. P. Ross, Yale University; and Martin J.
Rudwick, Cambridge University.

Among those who used the collections in vertebrate paleontology
were:

Craig C. Black, Carnegie Museum; Mary R. Dawson, Smith College; Coleman
J. Goin, University of Florida; George H. Jakway, University of Nebraska ;
Hans Kaiser and Mrs. Kaiser, Hanover, West Germany; Ernest L. Lundelius,
Jr., University of Texas; Robert Miller and Teruyo Uyene, University of
Michigan; Bryan Patterson and A. 8. Romer, Museum of Comparative Zoology ;
John MeIntosh, Leonard Radinsky, Elwyn Simons, and Jeff Smith, Yale Uni-
versity; H. P. Roebling, Columbia University ; Horace J. Swain, University of
Delaware; G. T. MacIntyre, Malcolm C. McKenna, and Bobb Schaeffer, American
Museum of Natural History; Paul Y. Sondaar, Loenen, a.d. Vecht, Holland;
Howard J. Stains, Southern Illinois University; and Albert E. Wood, Amherst
College.

Museum of History and Technology
Science and Technology

Physical sciences.—In the field of physical sciences, Dr. Robert P.
Multhauf, head curator of the department, continued his research on
the history of early chemistry. He read proof on his paper dealing
with self-registering meteorological instruments.

Mechanical and civil engineering.—Curator Eugene S. Ferguson
has completed the editing and annotating of the book-length early
engineering reminiscences of George Escol Sellers. ‘This first-person
narrative, which covers the years 1815-1840, will provide scholars with
important source material for the history of early mechanical and
civil engineering practice in the United States and England. The
detailed descriptions of machines and processes are wnique, and in-
sights into the character and behavior of some outstanding early
mechanicians are often sharp and fresh. Mr. Ferguson has also made
satisfactory progress with his bibliography for the history of tech-
nology (with emphasis upon mechanical engineering), which is in-
INVESTIGATION AND RESEARCH 93

tended to complement the existing bibliographies in allied fields, such
as the history of science. His paper “John Ericsson and the Age of
Caloric” was published by the Museum.

Associate curator Edwin A. Battison, in documenting a unique
15th-century thread-cutting device in the collections, has made im-
portant progress on his paper dealing with thread-cutting lathes with-
out gears, since 1480.

Robert M. Vogel, associate curator, substantially completed a study
of the 19th-century civil engineer and bridge builder, Wendell Boll-
man, who introduced the first iron bridge trussing system that was
used consistently on an American railroad. His study of the elevator
systems of the Eiffel Tower was published.

Transportation.—Much research work is being done in the divi-
sion of transportation to prepare plans for new exhibit models. The
requirements of exhibits have necessitated an extensive research pro-
gram and this will continue until the gaps are filled in the collection.

Curator Howard I. Chapelle completed work on his new catalog of
the watercraft collection, which was published by the Museum in
November. His paper on the steamship Savannah is now in the
hands of the printer. Editorial work continues on his manuscript
of the bark canoes of North America, and his manuscript on Arctic
skin boats has been accepted for publication by the Museum.

John H. White, Jr., associate curator, has completed research on
the Cincinnati locomotive builders and the first draft is about 85 per-
cent complete. His paper on the introduction of the locomotive
safety truck was in press.

Electricity.—In the division of electricity long-range research in-
cludes expansion of the data and biographical files, preparation of
bibliographies, accumulation of documentary material in the history
of electricity, additions to the collection of electrical patents and
photographs, and consolidation of the Clark collection on the history
of the radio.

Curator W. James King’s doctoral dissertation, on the history of
17th-century science, has been accepted by the Graduate School of
Cornell University. Two of his papers on 19th-century electrical
technology were in press.

Medical sciences.—During the year, curator John B. Blake con-
tinued his research on the history of public health in the United States,
1900-1950. He has uncovered and published, with comments, a de-
scription of the first hypodermic syringe. He has prepared brief
biographies of Lydia Folger Fowler and Mary Gove Nichols for
Notable American Women, 1607-1950, a biographical dictionary
being prepared under the sponsorship of Radcliffe College, and he is
preparing a longer biographical article on Mrs. Gove Nichols.

94 U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1961

Associate curator Sami K. Hamarneh examined several Arabic
manuscripts related to pharmacy and medicine during his trips to
New Haven, Conn., Philadelphia, Pa., and Cambridge, Mass. He
also advanced his research on chemical therapy and the rise of phar-
macy and hospitals in Islam. He read proof on his study of al-
Zahrawi’s 10th-century surgical treatise.

Research by outside investigators—Frances Gudemann and
others representing the U.S. Science Exhibit, Century 21 Exhibition
(Seattle), consulted Dr. Multhauf concerning the exhibition of phys-
ical sciences. Lew Suverkrop, of Bakersfield, Calif., made a study
of the Ramsden dividing engine and screw cutting lathe in connection
with a research project in the history of the dividing engine. Sieg-
fried Graebner consulted the collections on several occasions in con-
nection with his work in preparing a classroom text of the history
of surveying. Dr. Hugh Hicks, of Baltimore, Md., visited the divi-
sion of electricity several times to study the collection of incandescent
lamps.

A number of visitors requested technical information in all fields of
transportation.

Arts and Manufactures

Textiles—Grace L. Rogers, associate curator in charge, continued
her investigation of the samplers in the museum collection in prepara-
tion for a history and catalog. In answer to a request from the
Society for the History of Technology, Miss Rogers wrote an exten-
sive review of the textile portions of the five-volume work by Charles
Singer and others, “A History of Technology.” Her paper “Textiles
and Textile Machines” was published in the fall, 1960, issue of Z’ech-
nology and Culture. In December Miss Rogers examined over three
hundred old sewing machines at the Singer Manufacturing Company’s
Elizabethport factory. These machines, representing products of a
great many 19th century companies, were found to have great his-
torical significance. One hundred and forty-two were selected for
the museum collection, several being of the earliest manufactured
styles and previously unrepresented in our collection. Miss Rogers
continued her work as senior adviser for the L’ncyclopaedia Britan-
nica, reviewing twenty textile papers for technical content and
writing the section on sewing machines for the 1962 printing.

Museum aide Doris Bowman began a detailed study of 19th-
century sewing clamps and related needlework accessories. Informa-
tion in book form is quite limited. Patent Office records, contemporary
periodicals, and related journals are being investigated. The infor-
mation will be used in cataloging a large collection of such imple-
ments recently donated to the textile collections. If the findings are
INVESTIGATION AND RESEARCH 95

TENN

Third section of textile hall, recently reconditioned, features a quilt
exhibit case with selector dial that permits visitor to see 8 quilts in
space normally required to display one. This is a sunburst quilt of
about 1840.

extensive, the information will be presented for publication in the
form of a history and catalog.

Mr. Milton Eisler, physical science technician, continued his
textile laboratory work devising techniques and performing prac-
tical experiments in the safe removal of soil and stains from all
types of natural fiber textiles. Experiments in determining ap-
propriate adhesives for use in mounting fragile textiles also have
been initiated.

Ceramics and glass.—Paul V. Gardner, associate curator in charge,
continued his research on the collections of ceramics and glass in the
Museum. He has started to assemble data for a biography of
Frederick Carder, founder of the Steuben Glass Works and out-
standing artist in glass.
96 U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1961

; AND NETTING

Hand knitting and netting are explained and compared with machine
methods in the newly opened section of the textile hall.

Graphic arts.—Curator Jacob Kainen completed articles for the
Encyclopaedia Britannica, on Lithography, Gravure, Collotype, Silk
Screen Printing, Electrotyping, and Sepia. He also completed for
the Grolier Encyclopedia articles on Engraving, Drypoit, and
Lithography, and wrote a preface to an illustrated booklet, Zrving
Amen: Woodcuts, published by Artists Studio, New York. An illus-
trated article on John Baptist Jackson was prepared for publication
in The Print Council Annual. He also read proof on his monograph
of Jackson, the English artist who pioneered in color printing from
wood blocks in the first half of the 18th century. This study, the
first full-length work on the artist, is being published by the Museum.
Mr. Kainen continued to work on the Dutch engraver Hendrick
Goltzius (1558-1617) ; his study will examine some phases of Goltzius’
style, which had a wide influence.

Mr. Kainen served as juror for an exhibition, “Trends in American
Art,” at Howard University, and received first prize for his water-
color, Woman with Bird, at the 64th Annual National Exhibition of
the Washington Water Color Association.

Fuller O. Griffith, associate curator, completed his illustrated catalog
of the lithographs of Childe Hassam (1859-1935), which have been
INVESTIGATION AND RESEARCH Q7

> pL RUGS
HOMEMADE, PILES

Examples of rugs made by hand and machine are displayed with an
explanation of the techniques used in their making.

neglected, although they probably make up his most original work.
Mr. Griffith served as Juror for two exhibitions of art.

Associate curator Eugene Ostroff, section of photography, in co-
operation with Dr. Rudolf Kingslake, director of optical design for
the Eastman Kodak Co., restudied the entire collection of photographic
lenses. These optics were identified and cross-indexed according to
design and manufacture.

Manufactures and heavy industries.—Head curator Philip W.
Bishop extended his contribution to Histoire Générale des Tech-
niques and continued his research on the history of manufacturing
techniques. He also began a study of the influence of Andrew Ure
(1778-1857) on American technology. During the summer he visited
the Science Museum in London, the Conservatoire des Arts et Métiers,
in Paris, and the Deutsches Museum, in Munich, and consulted with
their officials.

Dr. Charles O. Houston, Jr., associate curator, continued his work
on a chronology of innovation in the coal industry.
98 U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1961

Agriculture and forest products.—In September Edward C. Ken-
dall, associate curator in charge, visited the Western Development
Museum in Saskatoon, Saskatchewan, Canada, to study an extensive
collection of farm steam engines and tractors dating from the 1880's
to the recent past. Mr. Kendall also visited Seattle and the central
part of Washington to inspect the kind of agriculture and lumbering
carried on in the Northwest. At the Daniel Parrish Witter Agricul-
tural Museum on the State Fair Grounds at Syracuse, N.Y., Mr. Ken-
dall was able to study some interesting and rare pieces of equipment,
including an Ames portable farm steam engine built in 1866 and
other valuable source material on farm machines manufactured in
New York State.

In May Mr. Kendall and Mr. Carl Rishell, consultant to the sec-
tion of forest products, visited New Orleans while the National
Lumber Manufacturers’ Association was meeting there. This visit
resulted in many offers of cooperation and assistance from individuals
and lumber firms in the development of the Forest Products Hall
now being planned for the new Museum of History and Technology.

Research by visiting investigators—Many visitors used the de-
partment’s collections and were aided in their work by staff mem-
bers. Included were representatives of the National Geographic
Society. Other visitors were:

Mildred Davidson, Art Institute of Chicago; Mrs. George Weems Williams,
Maryland Historical Society; Adolphe Cavallo, Boston Museum of Fine Arts;
Richard Pennington, Graphic Arts Musuem of McGill University, Montreal,
Canada; Norman Barbee, Howard University; R. L. Stehle and Aline Fruhauf,
Washington, D.C.; Andrei A. Mylnikov and Orest G. Vereiski, of the Soviet Union,
sponsored by the Committee on Leaders and Specialists of the American Council

on Education; Balakrishna Sarna, Nepal; Francois Mathey, Curator of Decora-
tive Arts, Musée du Louvre, Paris; and Gordon Hendricks, New York City.

Civil History

Head curator Richard H. Howland is currently engaged in two
research projects concerned with architectural history: one involves
the White House, the other concerns James Renwick’s original Smith-
sonian Institution building.

Peter C. Welsh, associate curator, has completed studies on the value
of patent documents to the social historian, on the correlation of
popular attitudes and technical progress, and on the lithograph as a
cultural document. He is continuing long range research in the
United States Patent Office records.

Assistant curator Arlene Krimgold has nearly brought to comple-
tion an investigation of the stained glass industry in the United States
before 1900 and has completed a study of children’s games and their
educational value in 19th-century America.
INVESTIGATION AND RESEARCH 99

Political history.—Curator Wilcomb E. Washburn has undertaken
several studies; one, prepared for delivery at the American Indian
Ethnohistoric Conference at Indiana University in November, at-
tempts to define and justify the concept of ethnohistory. Another
paper, which analyzes the origin of several seventeenth-century Indian
wars, was delivered at the Eleventh Conference on Early American
History held at the University of Michigan in March. A third study,
of the effects of Bacon’s Rebellion on government in England and
Virginia, was carried through several editorial stages prior to its
scheduled publication in the coming year.

Associate curator Margaret B. Klapthor continued her research
on furnishings of the White House and on White House china. She
completed an article on china of the Lincoln administration, and her
manuscript on presentation silver in the U.S. National Museum is in
press.

Assistant curator Anne W. Murray continued her research on
costume history and on the Copp collection. She has two articles
ready for publication, one in Antiques magazine, on the apron, and
another for the Z’ncyclopaedia Britannica on costume in 17th- and
18th-century America.

Cultural History.—Curator C. Malcolm Watkins spent five weeks
in England examining 17th-century earthenwares in numerous Eng-
lish museums and archeological collections, in connection with his
long-range study of ceramics found in colonial American sites. This
has resulted in the identification and dating of many pottery types
exported to the colonies, with consequent new inferences to be drawn
with respect to colonial trade. In collaboration with honorary re-
search associate Ivor Noel Hume, he has also worked on a historical
archeological study of the career and products of William Rogers,
Virginia’s principal potter, who worked in Yorktown in the early
18th century. His study of North Devon pottery and its export to
America in the 17th century was completed and published.

Associate curator John D. Shortridge has continued his catalog
of the musical instrument collection and has completed, with Frank
Breckenridge, a paper on the mechanics of the harpsichord jack.

Rodris C. Roth, associate curator, has carried on her studies of
domestic furnishings. These have proved useful to historical museums
and social historians alike. Her paper on tea service in 18th-century
America was published by the Museum. She is bringing to conclusion
a paper on American floor coverings and has advanced another on 18th-
century fireplace equipment. She has also been working on a study of
the American-made furniture displayed at the Centennial Exhibition
in Philadelphia in 1876.
100 U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1961

Research on White House china, a continuing program in the Museum,
has resulted in identification of services used by various First Ladies.
The gravy boat, held by associate curator Margaret Brown Klapthor,

and the soup plate (right) are from a service ordered by Mrs. Lincoln
in 1865.

Assistant curator John N. Pearce is collaborating with the Mary-
land Archeological Society in the excavation of two late 18th- and
early 19th-century stoneware and earthenware pottery sites in Balti-
more. His findings will enable him to enlarge upon his unpublished
manuscript on the early Baltimore potters and their wares. Another
study in progress on the trans-Atlantic culture of late 18th-century
America deals with the Plhmpton sisters and their French husbands
and centers upon an unusual collection of heirlooms in the National
Museum from a Massachusetts family of French and New England
descent. This study will demonstrate a frequent but little noted
French impingement on American culture in the Federal Period. Mr.
Pearce has completed articles on a Seymour desk and on New York
silver 2-handled paneled bowls, and in collaboration with Professor

tobert C. Smith of the University of Pennsylvania, has advanced a
paper on the Meeks furniture makers.
INVESTIGATION AND RESEARCH 101

Anthony W. Hathaway, junior curator, has in draft a manuscript
on patented structural elements of the pianoforte between 1800 and
1875, and has begun another on patented musical notation during the
first three-quarters of the 19th century. He is also continuing a study
of the structural use of iron in 19th-century St. Louis, as illustrated in
the collection of iron architectural material recently transferred to the
Smithsonian Institution from the National Park Service.

Ivor Noél Hume, honorary research associate, has excavated a
closely dated early 18th-century Virginia plantation site, artifacts
from which will be of value to archeologists for purposes of compara-
tive dating as well as being of intrinsic historical] interest. He is cur-
rently preparing a report on the excavation.

Philately and postal history.——George T. Turner, associate cu-
rator in charge, continued his research on early stagecoach mail con-
tracts, and served as Washington representative of the Hobbies Com-
mittee of the People-to-People Program.

Frank J. McCall, associate curator, continued research on early
Florida postal history and Hawaiian postal history of the early mis-
sionary days. He acted as philatelic advisor to the Dead Letter Office
and to former Postmaster General Arthur E. Summerfield.

Assistant curator Carl H. Scheele continues his research on United
States posts.

Numismatics.—Vladimir Clain-Stefanelli, associate curator in
charge, progressed in his work on his dictionary of American en-
gravers and medallists and the corpus of his work on ancient Greek
coins of northern Greece. <A preliminary report concerned with the
chronological sequence of posthumous Lysimachus gold staters struck
at Kallatis was presented at the Sixty-Second General Meeting of the
Archaeological Institute of America. Dr. Clain-Stefanelli frequently
functioned as a consultant to the Treasury Department, Bureau of
the Mint, in his capacity as special adviser on the numismatic status
of modern gold coins and medals.

Mrs. Elvira Clain-Stefanelli, associate curator, completed a study
on numismatics which presents the evolution of scientific research in
the field of numismatics throughout the ages. <A select critical bibliog-
raphy completes this basic reference book. The modern gold coinages
of Germany and the German States, and of South America, were
studied and prepared for a special publication to appear as part of a
general study on the modern gold coimages of the world issued since
1800. A new project in connection with modern medallic art is con-
cerned with the study of the engravers and medalists who produced
the coins and medals of Peter the Great of Russia.

102 U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1961

Armed Forces History

Military history—Curator Edgar M. Howell, in conjunction with
Colonel J. Duncan Campbell, completed and submitted for publication
a comprehensive, critical and descriptive catalog of American mili-
tary insignia, 1800-1851. His paper on Herman Steiffel, soldier-artist
of the West, was published by the Museum. He prepared an annota-
ted edition of Civil War uniform regulations illustrated with official
War Department uniform photographs, which was published by the
Smithsonian Institution. He also completed a biographical sketch
of Harvey Dunn, the World War I combat artist, for publication by
American Heritage, and a study “Early Military Insignia and Ameri-
can Design” for Antiques magazine.

Mr. Howell, in conjunction with Colonel J. Duncan Campbell, con-
tinued archeological investigation of War of 1812 cantonment sites at
Sackets Harbor, New York. A number of outstanding recoveries
were made and comprehensive plans were completed for continuing
investigation. Mr. Howell, again in conjunction with Colonel Camp-
bell, located and excavated Ft. Adams (1799-1810) near Woodville,
Miss., with excellent results.

Associate curator Craddock R. Goins, Jr., revised and expanded
portions of the script for the new hall of ordnance, and in conjunction
with this added considerable data to the catalog he is preparing of the
weapons collections. Additional documentation was found and in-
cluded in a study being prepared by Mr. Goins on the Hall rifle and
the weapons and ammunition developed by Edward Maynard.

Museum aide Donald Kloster continued his study on the American
usage and changes in the floral motif ‘“Rosemaling” as brought to the
United States by Norwegian immigrants.

Museum aide John L. Rawls, long a student of naval and military
ordnance, contributed to The American Rifleman an article, “Safety
with the Rifle-Musket.”

Naval history.—Mendel L. Peterson, head curator of the depart-
ment, made substantial progress in his study of the marking and
decoration of muzzle-loading cannon, completing the collating of
dates and photographs gathered during the past six years. He also
continued the research associated with the underwater exploration
program in the fields of preservation of materials recovered from
sea water and identification of shipwreck sites through internal evi-
dence and documents in European archives. On the basis of the in-
vestigation of the site of an early 17th century wreck site on the reefs
of Bermuda, he prepared two manuscripts on materials found on that
site. These are in the hands of editors and will be published this fall.
INVESTIGATION AND RESEARCH 103

Continuing his study of the development of United States naval
construction, Philip K. Lundeberg, associate curator in charge of
the division, began preparation of a catalog of American warship
models and half models in the national collections. During the year
he studied naval and maritime collections in museums, naval ship-
yards, and departments of naval architecture at universities on the
east and west coasts. Dr. Lundeberg contributed a chapter on the
Battle of the Atlantic to “The Great Sea War,” a history of naval
operations during the Second World War, edited by EK. B. Potter and
Fleet Admiral Chester W. Nimitz. In addition, he reviewed works
on the naval history of World War II in the American Historical
Review and Military Affairs.

Research by visiting investigators.—Assistance was provided to
other government and private agencies throughout the year. Among
organizations which utilized the collections and resources of the de-
partment of armed forces history were: Heraldic Branch, Office of
Quartermaster General, Department of the Army; Historical Di-
vision and Technical Intelligence Branch, Office of Chief of Ordnance,
Department of the Army; Prints Division and General Reference
Service, Library of Congress; Civil War and Early Wars Branch,
National Archives; Division of Naval History, Department of the
the Navy; United States Marine Corps Museum, Department of the
Navy; National Geographic Society; and researchers from the
Company of Military Collectors and Historians.
Publications

The scientific publications of the United States National Museum
continued under the editorship of John S. Lea.

In addition to the Annual Report, the Museum issued publications
based on research in the national collections. Of these, 4 whole
volumes and 7 papers as parts of 2 additional volumes were in
the Bulletin series, 21 publications were in the Proceedings series,
and 1 was in the Contributions from the National Herbarium.

At the close of the year, 5 proceedings papers and the following
bulletins were in press:

82, vol. 1, part 5. A monograph of the existing crinoids, the Comatulids, sub-
orders Oligophreata and Macrophbreata, by Austin Hobart Clark and Ailsa
McGown Clark.

216, part 3. Inchneumon-flies of America north of Mexico: 3. Subfamily Gelinae,
Tribe Mesostenini, by Henry and Marjorie Townes.

222. John Baptist Jackson: 18th-century master of the color woodcut, by Jacob
Kainen.

224. Robber flies of the world: The genera of the family Asilidae, by Frank M.
Hull.

225. Contributions from the Museum of History and Technology: Papers 12-18,
by members of the staff and others.
Paper 17. The effect of Bacon’s Rebellion on government in England and
Virginia, by Wilcomb E. Washburn.
Paper 18. Excavations at Rosewell in Gloucester County, Virginia, 1957—
1959, by Ivor Noél Hume.
226. Checklist of the birds of Thailand, by Herbert G. Deignan.

227, part 1. Marine Polychaete worms of the New England region: 1. Fami-
lies Aphroditidae through Trochochaetidae, by Marian H. Pettibone.
228. Contributions from the Museum of History and Technology: Papers 19-30,

by members of the staff and others.

Paper 21. The pioneer steamship Savannah: A study for a scale model,
by Howard I. Chapelle.

Paper 22. Drawing and pharmacy in al-Zahrawtl’s 10th-century surgical
treatise, by Sami Hamarneh.

Paper 28. The introduction of self-registering meteorological instruments,
by Robert P. Multhauf.

Paper 24. Introduction of the locomotive safety truck, by John H. White.

Paper 25. The migrations of an American boat type, by Howard I. Chapelle.

Paper 26. Holcomb, Fitz, and Peate: Three 19th-century American tele-
scope-makers, with introduction by Robert P. Multhauf.

Paper 27. Kinematics of mechanisms from the time of Watt, by Hugene
Ss. Ferguson.

Paper 28. Electrical technology in the 19th Century: 1. The electrochemical
cell and the electromagnet, by W. James King.

104
PUBLICATIONS 105

Paper 29. Hlectrical technology in the 19th century: 2. The telegraph
and the telephone, by W. James King.
229. Contributions from the Museum of History and Technology, Papers 31-34.
Paper 33. Italian coin engravers since 1800, by Hlvira Clain-Stefanelli.
230. Contributions from the Museum of History and Technology, Papers 35-36.
Paper 35. The bark canoes of North America by Edwin Tappan Adney
and Howard I. Chapelle.
231. Contributions from the Museum of History and Technology, Papers 37—.
Paper—Presentation silver in the U.S. National Museum, by Margaret
Klapthor.

Publications by the staff, including honorary members, totaled 182.
These, listed on pages 105 to 115, were distributed as follows:

Publi- Publi-

Department cations Department cations

Anthropology, iui, eer els PP)\ (Ormsby Ss 6G 6 5 B65 6 6 11

IBS OCATIY A. its | vo tres te eee eel Ns 36| Arts and Manufactures .. . 4

Geolosy ie a ae Rs RP Os 18 | Armed Forces History. .. . 4
Zoology SA ee N aetna ee. wedtG G7

Science and Technology. . . . 15 PO GAM sie ones: Sle | ieee abe

Publications of the United States National Museum
July 1960 through June 1961

REPORT

The United States National Museum annual report for the year ended June 30,
1960. Pp. vi+-175, illustr., January 13, 1961.

BULLETINS

219. The national watercraft collection, by Howard I. Chapelle. Pp. xi+327,
204 figs., November 23, 1960.
220. Type specimens of reptiles and amphibians in the U.S. National Museum,
by Doris M. Cochran. Pp. xv-+291, April 4, 1961.
221. Type specimens of birds in the United States National Museum, by Herbert
G. Deignan. Pp. x+718, March 17, 1961.
223. The parasitic weaverbirds, by Herbert Friedmann. Pp. viii+196, 3 figs.,
16 pls. (4 color), December 30, 1960.
225. Contributions from the Museum of History and Technology: Papers 12-18,
by members of the staff and others.
Paper 12. Hermann Stieffel, soldier-artist of the West, by Edgar M. Howell.
Pp. 1-16, 11 figs., July 8, 1960.
Paper 138. North Devon pottery and its export to America in the 17th
century, by C. Malcolm Watkins. Pp. 17-60, 36 figs. (1 color), Decem-
ber 30, 1960.
Paper 14. Tea drinking in 18th-century America: Its etiquette and equip-
age, by Rodris Roth. Pp. 61-91, 22 figs., 1 color pl., January 30, 1961.
Paper 15. Italian harpsichord-building in the 16th and 17th centuries, by
John D. Shortridge. Pp. 93-107, 12 figs., December 15, 1960.
Paper 16. Drug supplies in the American Revolution, by George B. Grif-
fenhagen. Pp. 109-133, 4 figs., March 9, 1961.

609091—61——8
106 U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1961

228. Contributions from the Museum of History and Technology: Papers 19-30,
by members of the staff and others.
Paper 19. Elevator systems of the Hiffel Tower, 1889, by Robert M. Vogel.
Pp. 1-40, 41 figs., February 21, 1961.
Paper 20. John Hricsson and the age of caloric, by Eugene S. Ferguson.
Pp. 41-60, 11 figs., January 25, 1961.

CONTRIBUTIONS FROM THE NATIONAL HERBARIUM
From VOLUME 35

Part 2. A taxonomic revision of the Humiriaceae, by José Cuatrecasas. Pp.
iii+- 25-214, 38 figs., 24 pls., April 14, 1961.

PROCEEDINGS
FRoM VOLUME 110

Title page, table of contents, and index. Pp. i-iii, 599-619, August 19, 1960.
FRoM VOLUME 111

Title page, table of contents, and index. Pp. i-iv, 681-692, March 15, 1961.

No. 3429. A revision of the genus Ogcodes Latreille with particular reference
to species of the Western Hemisphere, by Evert I. Schlinger. Pp. 227-336,
9 figs., 18 pls. (112 pl.-figs.), September 9, 1960.

No. 3430. Cydnidae of the Western Hemisphere, by Richard C. Froeschner.
Pp. 337-680, 13 pls. (300 pl.-figs.), October 25, 1960.

From VOLUME 112

No. 3481. Lace-bug genera of the World (Hemiptera: Tingidae), by Carl J.
Drake and Florence A. Ruhoff. Pp. 1-105, 5 figs., 9 pls., July 7, 1960.

No. 3436. Revision of the milliped genus Cherokia (Polydesmida: Xystodesmi-
dae), by Richard L. Hoffman. Pp. 227-264, 7 figs., 1 pl., October 12, 1960.

No. 3437. Reexamination of species of Protura described by H. EH. Ewing, by
F. Bonet and 8. L. Tuxen. Pp. 265-305, 108 figs., October 13, 1960.

No. 34388. Studies in neotropical Mallophaga, XVII: A new family (Trochili-
phagidae) and a new genus of the lice of hummingbirds, by M. A. Carriker,
Jr. Pp. 807-842, 12 figs., October 13, 1960.

No. 3489. The pelagic amphipod genus Parathemisto (Hyperiidea: Hyperiidae)
in the North Pacific and adjacent Arctic Ocean, by Thomas HE. Bowman.
Pp. 343-392, 19 figs., October 13, 1960.

No. 3440. Assassin bugs of the genus Ghilianella in the Americas (Hemiptera,
Reduviidae, Emesinae), by J. Maldonado-Capriles. Pp. 393-450, 146 figs.,
September 9, 1960.

No. 3441. Welcome Mound and the effigy pipes of the Adena people, by Frank
M. Setzler. Pp. 451-458, 1 fig., 4 pls., September 9, 1960.

No. 3442. Descriptions of new bats from Panama, by Charles O. Handley, Jr.
Pp. 459-479, October 6, 1960.

No. 3443. Cultural sequences in Hokkaido, Japan, by Lt. Col. Howard A. Mac
Cord. Pp. 481-503, 5 figs., 14 pls., December 5, 1960.

No. 3444. Noctuid moths of the Scopulepes group of Hemeroplanis Hiibner, by
BH. L. Todd. Pp. 505-515, 6 figs., 1 pl., September 13, 1960.

No. 3445. Lithoglyptes spinatus, a burrowing barnacle from Jamaica, by Jack
T. Tomlinson and William A. Newman. Pp. 517-526, 10 figs., December 20,
1960.
No.
National Museum, by O. S. Tattersall, D. Sc.

No.

107

3446. Notes on mysidacean crustaceans of the genus Lophogaster in the U.S.
Pp. 527-547, 7 figs., Decem-

PUBLICATIONS

ber 20, 1960.

3447. The fairy shrimp Brachinecta campestris from northwestern United
States (Crustacea: Phyllopoda), by James EH. Lynch. Pp. 549-561, 5 figs.,
December 5, 1960.

. 3448. Stargazer fishes from the western North Atlantic (family Uranoscop-

idae), by Frederick H. Berry and William W. Anderson. Pp. 563-586, 1 fig.,
4 pls., April 12, 1961.

From VOLUME 113

No.

3450. Paraconger, a new genus with three new species of eels (family
Congridae), by Robert H. Kanazawa. Pp. 1-14, 3 figs., 2 pls., January 26,

1961.
No.

3451. Revision of the milliped genus Deltotaria (Polydesmida: Xystodes-

midae), by Richard L. Hoffman. Pp. 15-35, 4 figs., March 17, 1961.

No.

figs., March 20, 1961.

3452. Four new species of Pseudocyclops (Copepoda: Calanoida) from
Puerto Rico, by Thomas H. Bowman and Juan G. Gonzalez.

Pp. 37-59, 11

Publications by Members of the Staff
of the
United States National Museum

July 1960 through June 1961

Bailey, Reeve M., and Gilbert, Carter
R. The American cyprinid fish No-
tropis kanawha identified as an inter-
specific hybrid. Copeia, No. 4, pp.
354-357, 1 fig., 1960.

Battison, Edwin A. Time—for mil-
lions. Jewelers Digest, Atlanta, Ga.,
p. 78, 1 fig., March 1961.

Bayer, Frederick M., and Deichmann,
Elisabeth. The Ellisellidae (Octo-
corallia) and their bearing on the
zoogeography of the eastern Pacific.
Proe. Biol. Soe. Washington, vol. 73,
pp. 175-182, 2 figs., December 30, 1960.

—— and Fehlmann, H. Adair. The dis-
covery of a fresh-water opistho-
branchiate mollusk, Acochlidiwm
amboinense Strubell, in the Palau Is-
lands. Proc. Biol. Soc. Washington,
vol. 73, pp. 183-194, 3 figs., December
30, 1960.

Blake, John B. American Association
for the History of Medicine: report
of the thirty-third annual meeting.

Bull. Hist. of Medicine, vol. 34, No.
5, pp. 348-365, September—October
1960.

—. Mr. fFerguson’s hypodermic
syringe. Journ. Hist. of Medicine and
Allied Sciences, vol. 15, No. 4, pp. 337-
341, October 1960.

Boardman, Richard S. A revision of the
Ordovician bryozoan genera Bato-
stoma, Anaphragma, and Amplexo-
pora. Smithsonian Mise. Coll., vol.
140, No. 5, pp. 1-28, 7 pls., 1960.

Trepostomatous Bryozoa of the
Hamilton group of New York State.
U.S. Geol. Survey, Prof. Paper 340,
pp. 1-87, 27 figs., 22 pls., 1960.

Bowman, Thomas E. The pelagic
amphipod genus Parathemisto (Hy-
periidea: Hyperiidae) in the North
Pacific and adjacent Arctic Ocean.
Proe. U.S. Nat. Mus., vol. 112, No.
3439, pp. 348-392, 19 figs., October 13,
1960.
108

— and Gonzalez, Juan G. Four new
species of Pseudocyclops (Copepoda:
Calanoida) from Puerto Rico. Proc.
U.S. Nat. Mus., vol. 113, No. 3452,
pp. 37-59, 11 figs., March 20, 1961.

Carriker, M. A. Jr. A note on the
identity of Acidoproctus hopkinsi
mexicanus Carriker, 1954 (Mallo-
phaga: Philopteridae). Journ. Kan-
sas Mnt. Soc., vol. 33, No. 1, pp. 47-48,
4 figs., January 1960.

Studies in neotropical Mallo-

phaga, XVII: A new family (Tro-

chiliphagidae) and a new genus of

the lice of hummingbirds. Proc. U.S.

Nat. Mus., vol. 112, No. 3488, pp. 307-

342, 12 figs., October 1960.

New species of Ardeicola (Mallo-

phaga) from Colombian hosts.

Novedades Colombianas, vol. 1, No.

5, pp. 317-829, 8 figs., August 1960.

Itinerario del autor durante sus
recolecciones en la region de Santa
Marta, Colombia de Junio de 1911 a
Octubre de 1918 (Continuacién).
Novedades Colombianas, vol. 1, No.
5, pp. 380-335, August 1960.

—and Diaz-Ungria, Carlos. New
and little known Mallophaga from
Venezuelan birds (Part 1). Nov-
edades Cientificas. Contribuciones
Ocasionales del Museo de Historia
Natural La Salle, Serie Zoolégica,
No. 28, pp. 3-60, 56 figs., 21 pls., April
1961.

Chapelle, Howard I. Comments on hull
design of fishing boats. Fishing boats
of the World, vol. 2, pp. 460-467, Lon-
don, 1960.

—. The national watercraft collec-
tion. U.S. Nat. Mus. Bull. 219, pp.
xi+327, 204 figs., 1960.

Cifelli, Richard. Variation of English
Bathonian Foraminifera and their
phylogenetic significance. Journ.
Paleont., vol. 34, No. 3, pp. 556-569,
1960.

Clain-Stefanelli, Vladimir. Compara-
tive die studies: A method of numis-
matic investigation and its historical
significance. American Journ. Ar-
chaeology, vol. 65, pp. 187-188, 1961.

U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1961

Clarke, J. F. Gates. A new species of
moth injurious to pine (Lepidoptera:
Blastobasidae). The Florida Ent.,
vol. 43, No. 3, pp. 115-117, figs. 1-2A,
September 1960.

Cochran, Doris M. Type specimens of
reptiles and amphibians in the U.S.
National Museum. U.S. Nat. Mus.
Bull. 220, xv-+291 pp., April 4, 1961.

— and Goin, Coleman J. A new ge-
nus and species of frog (Leptodactyli-
dae) from Colombia. Fieldiana:
Zool., vol. 39, pp. 548-546, 1 fig., May
1961.

Collins, Herbert Ridgeway, Rubey, Ann
Todd, and Stacy, Florence Isabella.
The Tod (d)s of Caroline County, Vir-
ginia, and their kin. Artcraft Press,
Columbia, Missouri, 628 pp., 1960.

Cooper, G. Arthur. (See Muir-Wood,
Helen M.)

Cory, E. N., and Muesebeck, C. F. W.
Arthur Burton Gahan 1880-1960
(Obituary). Proc. Ent. Soc. Wash-
ington, vol. 62, No. 3, pp. 198-204,
portrait (bibliography pp. 200-204),
September 1960.

Cowan, Richard S. Rutaceae. Jn Bas-
sett Maguire, John J. Wurdack and
collaborators, Botany of the Guayana
Highland—IV (1). Mem. New York
Bot. Garden, vol. 10, No. 2, pp. 24-37,
12 figs., April 1960.

Leguminosae. In Bassett Ma-
guire, John J. Wurdack and collab-
orators, Botany of the Guayana
Highland—IV (2). Mem. New York
Bot. Garden, vol. 10, No. 4, pp. 65-87,
15 figs., March 1961.

— and Brizicky, George K. Taxo-
nomic relationships of Diomma HEn-
gler ex Harms. Mem. New York Bot.
Garden, vol. 10, No. 2, pp. 58-64, 1 fig.,
April 1960.

Crabill, Ralph E., Jr. On the identity
of Stenophilus grenadae. (Chamber-
lin) with a key to the known North
American congeners. Proc. Biol. Soc.
Washington, vol. 73, pp. 87-94, August
1960.

On the true identity of Ctenophi-
lus and Pleuroschenyla. Rev. Zool.
PUBLICATIONS 109

——. Remarks on the flower-pecker,

Dicaeum agile (Tickell). Bull. Brit.

Ornith. Club, vol. 80, No. 8, pp. 142-

144, November 1, 1960.

Type specimens of birds in the

United States National Museum.

A catalogue of the Schendylinae U.S. Nat. Mus. Bull. 221, pp. x-+-718,

of North America including Mexico,| March 1961.

with a generic key and proposal of a| Desautels, Paul E. Occurrence of multi-

new Simoporys. Ent. News, vol. 72, form fluorite from Mexico. Amer.

No. 2, pp. 29-36, February 1961; No.| Mineralogist, vol. 45, pp. 884-886,

3, pp. 67-80, March 1961. 1960.

A new Nuevobius, with a review | Drake, Carl J. A new genus and species
of the genus. Bull. Brooklyn Ent. of Cantacaderine lace-bug from the
Soc., vol. 55, pp. 121-138, December Philippines (Hemiptera: Tingidae).
1960. Fieldiana: Zool., vol. 42, No. 9, pp.

——. Clear plastic spray for label 115-118, 1 fig., April 1960.
restoration and preservation. Tur-|———-. Angolan Saldidae (Hemiptera).
tox News, vol. 38, No. 4, p. 11 (=111), Publigacdes Culturais da Companhia
April 1960. de Diamantes de Angola, Separata 51,

On the true nature of the Asyge- pp. 71-78, 7 figs., July 1960.
thidae. Psyche, vol. 67, No. 3, pp. Tingidae: new genera, species,
76-79, September 1960. homonyms, and synonyms (Hemip-

Cuatrecasas, José. Studies on An- tera). The Great Basin Naturalist,
dean Compositae IV. Brittonia, vol.| vol. 20, Nos. 1 and 2, pp. 29-88, 5
12, No. 8, pp. 182-195, 2 figs. July} figs., August 1960.

1960. Tingidae of New Guinea (Hem-

—. Dos Compuestas nuevas de Vene- iptera). Pacific Insects, vol. 2, No.
zuela. Bol. Soc. Venezolana Cienc.}| 3, Pp. 3839-880, 27 figs., October 1960.
Nat., vol. 21, No. 97, pp. 302-306, 2 An undescribed tingid from Ari-
figs., October 1960. zona (Hemiptera). Journ. Kansas

—. Prima flora Colombiana, 2A] Jnt. Soc., vol. 33, No. 4, pp. 152-154,
Malpighiaceae, Apéndice 1. Webbia, 1 fig., October 1960.
vol. 15, pp. 393-398, 1 fig., 1960. The Heteroptera of the Nether-

A taxonomic revision of the Hu-| lands Antilles—V, Tingidae (lace-
miriaceae. Contr. U.S. Nat. Herb.,| bugs). Studies on the fauna of Cu-
vol. 35, pt. 2, pp. 25-214, 38 figs., 24 racao and other Caribbean Islands,
pls., April 1961. vol. 11, No. 54, pp. 67-97, figs. 74-

Deignan, H. G. Harry Cusheir [sic]] 89, 1960.

Raven’s travels in East Borneo. Sara- Insects of Micronesia, Hemip-
wak Mus. Journ., vol. 9, Nos. 13-14 tera: Salidae. B. P. Bishop Mus., In-
(new ser.), pp. 267-269, [July-Decem-| Sects of Micronesia, vol. 7, No. 6, pp.
ber 1959] 1960. 287-305, 13 figs., February 1961.

The oldest name for the roseate A new subfamily, genus and two

pipet Bull SErie Ornitheclub, vol | | Ue” SPectes of Dinsocortdze (Hemip-
tera). Publigacdes Culturais da Com-
80, No. 7, p. 120, October 3, 1960. : 2
panhia de Diamantes do Angola,
ae The oldest name for the bat-eat- Separata 52, pp. 75-80, 2 figs., Feb-
ing pern. Bull. Brit. Ornith. Club,

ruary 1961.
vol. 80, No. 7, p. 121, October 3, 1960. Some Australian Tingidae
A new race of the brown barbet

Bot. Afrique, vol. 62, Nos. 1 and 2,
pp. 145-160, September 1960.

——. Myriapoda, Chilopoda, Pauro-
poda, Symphyla. Encylopedia Sci.
and Techn., McGraw-Hill, pp. 59-61,
365, 595, 596, 681-682, October 1960.

Sear ar |

(Hemiptera), including new genera
from Thailand. Bull. Brit. Ornith.

Club, vol. 80, No. 7, p. 121, October 3,
1960.

and new species. Records of Aus-
tralian Mus., vol. 25, No. 6, pp. 107-
113, pls. 3-6, February 1961.
110 U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM

—. A new Cylindrostethus from
Peru (Hemiptera: Gerridae). Proc.
Biol. Soe. Washington, vol. 74, pp. 65—
66, May 1961.

and Cobben, R. H. The Heterop-
tera of the Netherlands Antilles—II,
Hebridae. Studies on the fauna of
Curacao and other Caribbean Islands,
vol. 11, No. 51, pp. 35-48, figs. 19-22,
1960.

—— and Ruhoff, Florence A. Lace-bug
genera of the World (Hemiptera:
Tingidae). Proc. U.S. Nat. Mus., vol.
112, No. 3481, 105 pp., 5 figs., 9 pls.,
July 1960.

and Ruhoff, Florence A. The iden-
tification of Acanthis humuli Fabri-
cius and related species (Hemiptera :
Tingidae). Bull. Southern California
Acad. Sci., vol. 59, No. 2, pp. 70-75,
pls. 20-22, August 1960.

Elder, Robert A. Jr. The Colonel
Guggenheim paperweight collection.
Paperweight Collectors’ Assoc. Bull.,
pp. 1-7, 9 pis., June 1960.

The new Baccarat Millefiori

paperweight. Paperweight Collec-

tors’ Assoc. Bull., p. 14, June 1961.

The Lillie and Aaron Straus
paperweight collection. Paperweight
Collectors’ Assoc. Bull., pp. 26-80, 5
pls., June 1961.

Evans, Clifford, and Meggers, Betty J.
Archeological investigations in
British Guiana. Bur. Amer. Ethnol.
Bull. 177, pp. xxi-+418, 127 figs., 68
pls., 1960.

—and Meggers, Betty J. Archae-
ology: South America (except Colom-
bia and Venezuela). Handbook of
Latin American Studies, No. 22
(1959), Univ. Florida Press, pp. 17-
26, 1960.

Ewers, John C. The Indian wars of
the West. Jn Great Western Indian
Fights, by the members of the Poto-
mae Corral of the Westerners, Dou-
bleday and Co., pp. 19-25, 1960.

Happy hunting ground for his-

torians. Saturday Review, pp. 21-22,

50-53, May 6, 1961.

(Editor and author of biographi-

introduction. ) Five Indian

eal

ANNUAL REPORT, 1961

Tribes of the Upper Missouri by Ed-
win Thompson Denig. Civilization of
the American Indian Series, Univ.

Oklahoma Press, vol. 59, pp. xxxvii-+-

218, 12 pls., 1 map, 1961.

(Editor and author of conclud-
ing historical and comparative chap-
ter.) Crow Indian Medicine Bundles,
by William Wildschut. Contr. Mus.
Amer. Indian, Heye Foundation, vol.
17, pp. 1-178, 72 pls. (4in color), New
York, 1960.

Ferguson, Eugene S. John Ericsson
and the age of caloric. U.S. Nat.
Mus. Bull. 228, Contr. Mus. Hist.
Techn., Paper 20, pp. 41-60, 11 figs.,
January 25, 1961.

Flint, Oliver S, Jr. The immature
stages of the Arctopsychinae occur-
ring in eastern North America (Tri-
choptera: Hydropsychidae). Ann.
Ent. Soe. America, vol. 54, pp. 5-11,
30 figs., January 1961.

—— and Wiggins, Glen B. Records and
descriptions of North American
species in the genus Lepidostoma,
with a revision of the vernalis group
(Trichoptera: Lepidostomatidae).
Canada Ent., vol. 93, pp. 279-297, 22
figs., April 1961.

Friedmann, Herbert. The parasitic
weaverbirds. U.S. Nat. Mus. Bull.
223, pp. vili+196, 3 figs., 16 pls. (4
color), 1960.

Gardner, Paul V. Ceramic collections
in some northeastern United States
museums. The Pottery Quart., vol.
7, No. 25, pp. 35-40, 1961.

Garvan, Anthony N. B., and Welsh,
Peter C. The Victorian American.
Smithsonian Inst., Publ. 4466, 30 pp.,
21 illus., 1961.

Gazin, C. Lewis. U.S. National Mu-
seum. Soc. Vert. Paleont. News Bull.,
No. 61, pp. 14-16, February 1961; No.
62, pp. 14-15, June 1961.

Artiodactyla. Reinhold Ency-
clopedia of the Biological Sciences,
New York, pp. 69-70, 1961.

Gilbert, Carter R. (See Bailey, Reeve
M.)

Gilbert, Perry W., Schultz, Leonard P.,
and Springer, Stewart. Rules to

PUBLICATIONS

follow in southern waters. Life, New
York, vol. 49, No. 2, p. 72, July 11,
1960.

—, Schultz, Leonard P., and
Springer, Stewart. Shark attacks
during 1959. Science, vol. 132, No.
3423, pp. 323-326, 1960.

Hale, Mason E., Jr. The typification of
Parmelia cetrarioides. Svensk Bot.
Tidskr., vol. 54, No. 1, pp. 269-272,
1960.

Hamarneh, Sami K. Coinage in Islam.
The Islamic Quart., vol. 5, Nos. 3-4,
pp. 99-101, January 1960.

A brief study of customs and
civilization in Bible lands. Wm. A.
‘Dempsey and Associates, Washing-
ton, pp. vi+60, 1960.

—. Facts and artifacts, Ex-Libris.
Pharmacy in History, vol. 5, No. 2,
pp. 23-24, 1960.

Handley, Charles O., Jr. Hippopota-
mus. Encyclopedia Americana, vol.
14, pp. 202-203, 1 fig., 1960.

Hoof. Encyclopedia Americana,

vol. 14, p. 361, 1960.

Howler monkey. Wncyclopedia

Americana, vol. 14, p. 460, 1960.

Humpback whale. Encyclopedia

Americana, vol. 14, p. 495, 1960.

Hyracotherium. Eneyclopedia
Americana, vol. 14, p. 610, 1960.

—. Hystricomorpha. Encyclopedia
Americana, vol. 14, pp. 612-613, 1960.

Descriptions of new bats from
Panama, Proc. U.S. Nat. Mus., vol.
112, No. 3442, pp. 459-479, October 6,
1960.

——, Stafford, R., and Geil, E. H. A
West Virginia puma. Journ. Mam-
malogy, vol. 42, pp. 277-278, 1 pl.,
May 1961.

Hobbs, Horton H., Jr. and Barr,
Thomas C., Jr. The origins and
affinities of the troglobitic crayfishes
of North America (Decapods, Asta-
cidae). 1. The genus Oambarus.
Amer. Midl. Naturalist, vol. 64, No. 1,
pp. 12-338, 57 figs., July 1960.

and Walton, Margaret. A new

crayfish of the genus Procambarus

from southern Alabama (Decapods,

Astacidae). Proce. Biol. Soe. Wash-

JEL

ington, vol. 73, pp. 123-130, 11 figs.,
December 30, 1960.

Hotton, Nicholas, III. Fossils are
where you find them. Elementary
School Sci. Bull., No. 60, pp. 1-2,
February 1961.

Reptilia. Reinhold Encyclope-
dia of the Biological Sciences, New
York, pp. 877-879, 1961.

Houston, Charles O., Jr. Review of the
Hispanization of the Philippines, by
J. L. Phelan (Madison, 1959). Ethno-
history, vol. 7, No. 3, pp. 317-325,
1960.

Howell, Edgar M. Hermann Stieffel,
soldier-artist of the West. U.S. Nat.
Mus. Bull. 225, Contr. Mus. Hist.
Techn., Paper 12, pp. 1-16, 11 figs.,
July 8, 1960.

Ireland, R. R. Notes on Pogonatum
alpinum in eastern United States and
Canada. The Bryologist, vol. 63, No.
1, pp. 46-50, 1960.

Kainen, Jacob. Preface. In Irving
Amen’s Woodcuts, 1948-1960, Artists
Studio, New York, pp. 1-2, illus., 1960.

Kanazawa, Robert H. A new eel, Col-
oconger cadenati and a redescription
of the heterocongrid eel, Taenioconger
longissimus (Giinther) both from the
eoast of Senegal. Bull. Inst. Fran-
cais d’Afrique Noire, vol. 23, ser. A,
No. 1, pp. 108-115, pls. 1-2, 1961.

Paramyrus kellersi Fowler, a
synonym of the eel, Conger cinereus
cinereus Ruppell. Copeia, No. 1, p.
115, 1961.

——. Paraconger, a new genus with
three new species of eels (family
Congridae). Proc. U.S. Nat. Mus.,
vol. 113, No. 3450, pp. 1-14, 3 figs.,
2 pls., 1961.

Kauffman, Erle G., and Kesling, Robert
VY. An Upper Cretaceous ammonite
bitten by a mosasaur. Contr. Mus.
Paleont., Univ. Michigan, vol. 15, No.
9, pp. 193-248, 7 figs., 9 pls., 1960.

Kellogg, Remington. Antarctic whales.
Science in Antarctica, part 1, Rep.
Comm. on Polar Research, Nat. Acad.
Sci, Nat. Res. Council, Publ. 839,
pp. 115-128, 1961.
E12 U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM

Knez, Eugene I. Ke, Korean mutual
aid groups. Korean Rep., vol. 1, No.
2, pp. 17-20, 2 pls., June 1961.

Lachner, Ernest A., and Deubler, Earl
E. Clinostomus funduloides Girard,
to replace C. vandoisulus (Valencien-
nes) as the name of the rosyside dace
of eastern North America. Copeia,
No. 4, pp. 358-360, 1960.

—and Taylor, William R. A new
eardinal fish of the genus Archamia
from northern Australia. Proc. Biol.
Soe. Washington, vol. 738, pp. 29-34,
1 fig., 1960.

Leonard, Emery C. Acanthaceae Amer-
icanae novae vel criticae. Wrightia,
vol. 2, No. 2, pp. 75-82, 3 figs., May
1960.

—. Acanthaceae. Jn Bassett Ma-
guire, John J. Wurdack and collab-
orators, Botany of the QGuayana
Highland—IV(2). Mem. New York
Bot. Garden, vol. 10, No. 4, pp. 47-58,
9 figs., March 1961.

Lundeberg, Philip K. The battle of the
Atlantic. In EH. B. Potter and C. W.
Nimitz, eds., The Great Sea War,
Prentice Hall, ch. 3, pp. 69-101, 1960.

McClure, F. A. Typification of the gen-
era of the Bambusoideae III. Taxon,
vol. 9, p. 194, July-August 1960.

Bamboo. WHncyclopaedia Britan-
nica, vol. 3, pp. 17-18, 1961.

Meggers, Betty J. (See Evans, Clif-
ford)

Metcalf, George S. Tragedy at Wound-
ed Knee. In Great Western Indian
Fights, Doubleday and Co., Inc., ch.
25, pp. 307-317, 1960.

——. Archeology: Western MHemis-
phere. In The Americana Ann., New
York, pp. 41-43, 1961.

Morton, C. V. Some fern books for dif-
ferent regions of the United States.
Amer. Fern Journ., vol. 50, No. 2, pp.
169-178, June 28, 1960.

Taxonomic notes on ferns, I.

Amer. Fern Journ., vol. 50, No. 4, pp.

275-276, December 23, 1960.

Taxonomic notes on ferns, II.

Amer. Fern Journ., vol. 51, No. 1,|/——.

pp. 37-39, April 1961.

ANNUAL REPORT, 1961

Muesebeck, C. F. W. A fossil braconid
wasp of the genus HEcyphylus (Hy-
menoptera). Journ. Paleont., vol. 34,
No. 3, pp. 495-496, 1 fig., May 1960.

A new reared neotropical species

of Rogas Nees (Hymenoptera: Bra-

conidae). Ent. News, vol. 71, No. 10,

pp. 257-261, December 1960.

(See Cory, HE. N.)

Muir-Wood, Helen M., and Cooper, G.
Arthur. Morphology, classification
and life habits of the Productoidea
(Brachiopoda). Geol. Soc. America,
Mem. 81, pp. 1-482, 8 figs. 135 pls.,
1960.

Multhauf, Robert P. The line-less
sounder: An episode in the history of
scientific instruments. Journ. Hist.
Medicine and Allied Sciences, vol. 15,
No. 4, pp. 390-898, 1960.

The research museum of the
physical sciences. Curator, vol. 3,
No. 4, pp. 855-360, 1960.

Newman, Marshall T. Populational
analysis of finger and palm prints in
highland and lowland Maya Indians.
Amer. Journ. Phys. Anthrop., n.s.,
vol. 18, No. 1, pp. 45-58, 1960.

Adaptations in the physique of

American Indians to nutritional fac-

tors. Human Biol., vol. 32, No. 3, pp.

288-3138, 1960.

(See Stewart, T. D.)

Pearce, John N. A Seymour attribu-
tion. Antiques, vol. 78, p. 347, 1 fig.,
October 1960.

——. The problems of finery: Quaker
gold amid Newport silver. Winter-
thur Newsletter, vol. 7, No. 2, pp. 11—
12, February 24, 1961.

Peterson, Mendel L. An early seven-
teenth century wreck. The Numis-
matist, vol. 74, No. 6, pp. 761-764,
June 1961.

Rawls, John L. Safety with the rifle-
musket. In The American Rifleman,
pp. 80-31, August 1960.

Rehder, Harald A. Orthalicus in the
Cayman Islands. Nautilus, vol. 74,
No. 3, pp. 122-123, January 1961.

Dr. Paul Bartsch 1871-1960.

Amer. Malacological Union Ann.

aes
PUBLICATIONS

Rep. for 1960, pp. 4-6, portrait, Feb-
ruary 1961.

—. Report on malacological
search in Antarctica. Science in
Antarctica, part 1, Rep. Comm. on
Polar Research, Nat. Acad. Sci., Nat.
Res. Council, Publ. 839, pp. 89-93,
1961.

Rogers, Grace L. Textiles and textile
machines. Techn. and Culture, vol.
1, No. 4, pp. 394-401, Fall 1960.

Roth, Rodris. Tea drinking in 18th-
century America: Its etiquette and
equipage. U.S. Nat. Mus. Bull. 225,
Contr. Mus. Hist. Techn., Paper 14,
pp. 61-91, 22 fig., 1 color plate, 1961.

Rudd, Velva E. A new species of Or-
mosia (Leguminosae) from British
Honduras and emendation of O.
schippii. Tropical Woods, No. 113,
pp. 124-126, October 1960.

Ruhoff, Florence A. (See Drake, Carl
J.)

Schultz, Leonard P. Russian ichthy-
ology. Copeia, No. 3, p. 270, 1960.

—. The breeding habits of salmon
and trout. Smithsonian Treasury of
Science, vol. 2, pp. 593-608, 10 figs.,
Simon and Schuster, New York, 1960.

A short history of the Division
of Fishes, United States National
Museum, December 15, 1856, to De-
cember 15, 1956. Copeia, No. 1, pp.
120-123, 1961.

— and Barton, Otis. A redescription
of Letharchus pacificus, a snake eel
from the eastern Pacific Ocean.
Copeia, No. 4, pp. 3851-8538, 2 figs.,
1960.

(See Gilbert, Perry W.)

Setzer, Henry W. Two new mammals
from Hgypt. Journ. Hgyptian Pub-
lic Health Assoe., vol. 33, No. 1, pp.
1-5, October 31, 1960.

Setzler, Frank M. Welcome Mound
and the effigy pipes of the Adena peo-
ple. Proc. U.S. Nat. Mus., vol. 112,
No. 3441, pp. 451-458, 1 fig., 4 pls.,
September 9, 1960.

Shortridge, John D. Italian harpsi-
chord-building in the 16th and 17th
centuries. U.S. Nat. Mus. Bull. 225,

113

Contr. Mus. Hist. Techn., Paper 15,
pp. 98-107, 12 figs., 1960.

re- | Smith, A. C. The role of the research

museum in science: Introduction.

Curator, vol. 8, No. 4, pp. 311-312,

October 1960.

The 1960 meeting of the edi-
torial committee of the International
Code of Botanical Nomenclature.
Taxon, vol. 10, No. 1, pp. 8-13, Janu-
ary 1961.

Smith, Lyman B. Mrs. Abendroth’s
new Neoregelia. Bromel. Soc. Bull,
vol. 10, No. 2, pp. 24-28, 3 figs.,
March-April 1960.

Bromeliaceae. In Bassett Ma-

guire, John J. Wurdack and collabo-

rators, Botany of the Guayana High-
land—IV (1). Mem. New York Bot.

Garden, vol. 10, No. 2, pp. 16-22, 9

figs., April 1960.

Notable Bromeliaceae of the

Lundell Herbarium. (Wrightia, vol.

2, No. 2, pp. 64-65, 1 fig., May 1960.

Notes on South American

phanerogams—III. Wrightia, vol. 2,

No. 2, pp. 90-102, 1 fig., May 1960.

Notes on SBromeliaceae, XY.

Phytologia, vol. 7, No. 5, pp. 249-257,

1 pl., October 1960.

Tillandsia ferrisiana. Bromel.

Soe. Bull., vol. 10, No. 6, pp. 92, 93,

2 figs., November—December 1960.

The application of Zamia pumila

L. Phytologia, vol. 7, No. 8, p. 417,

April 1961.
——. Notes on the Bromeliaceae,
XVI. Phytologia, vol. 7, No. 8, pp.

417-428, 2 pls., April 1961.

and Downs, Robert J. Xyriddceas
brasileiras do herbario do Instituto
Agronomico do Norte, Belém do Para.
Bol. Técnico Inst. Agron. Norte, No.
36, pp. 87-97, February 1960.

— and Downs, Robert J. Xyridaceae
from Brazil—II. Proc. Biol. Soc.
Washington, vol. 73, pp. 245-260, 10
figs., December 1960.

and Schubert, Bernice G. A new

vine Begonia from Colombia. The

Begonian, vol. 27, No. 10, pp. 224—225,

1 pl., October 1960.

114

Snodgrass, R. E. Facts and theories
concerning the insect head. Smith-
sonian Mise. Coll., vol. 142, No. 1, 61
pp., 21 figs.. November 1960.

Some words and their ways in
entomology. Proc. Ent. Soe. Wash-
ington, vol. 62, No. 4, pp. 265-270,
December 1960.

Snyder, Thomas E., Graf, John E., and
Smith, Marion R. William M. Mann
1886-1960 (Obituary). Proce. Ent.
Soe. Washington, vol. 63, No. 1, pp.
68-71, portrait, March 1961.

Stern, William L. Collection of wood
specimens in the field. Bull. Intern.
Wood Coll. Soe., vol. 18, No. 9, pp.
129-132; No. 10, pp. 145-147, 1960.

Stewart, T. D. A physical anthropol-
ogist’s view of the peopling of the New
World. Southwestern Journ. An-
throp., vol. 16, No. 3, pp. 259-273,
1960.

——. The Chinook sign of freedom: A
study of the skull of the famous chief
Comcomly. Ann. Rep. Smithsonian
Inst. for 1959, pp. 568-576, 2 figs.,
6 pls., 1960.

—. Skeletal remains from Venado
Beach, Panama: cranial deformity.
XXXIII Congreso International de
Americanistas (San José 1958), vol.
2, pp. 45-54, 1959 (received in 1960).

— and Newman, Marshall T. Physi-
cal anthropology. Handbook of Latin
American Studies, No. 22 (1959),
Univ. Florida Press, pp. 51-68, 1960.

Switzer, George. Thirty-fifth annual
report on the diamond industry, 1959.
Jewelers’ Circular-Keystone, vol. 130,
15 pp., 1960.

—— and Reichen, Laura E. Re-exam-
ination of pilinite and its identifica-
tion with bavenite. Amer. Mineral-
ogist, vol. 45, Nos. 7-8, pp. 757-762,
1960.

——and Swanson, Howard E. Para-
tellurite, a new mineral from Mexico.
Amer. Mineralogist, vol. 45, Nos. 11—
12, pp. 1272-1274, 1960.

Taylor, William R. (See Lachner,
Ernest A.)

Turner, George T. (and staff mem-
bers). Philatelic activities of the

U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1961

Smithsonian Institution. SI Leaflet
286.

Van Beek, Gus W. Pre-Islamic South
Arabian shipping in the Indian
Ocean—a surrejoinder. Journ. Amer.
Oriental Soc., vol. 80, No. 2, pp. 1386—
139, June 1960 (received in 1961).

Frankincense and myrrh. Bibli-

cal Archaeologist, vol. 23, No. 3, pp.

70-95, September 1960.

South Arabian history and ar-
chaeology. In The Bible and the An-
cient Near East: Essays in honor of
William Foxwell Albright, G. H.
Wright, ed., Doubleday and Co., Ine.,
pp. 229-248, 1961.

Vogel, Robert M. Elevator systems of
the Hiffel Tower, 1889. U.S. Nat. Mus.
Bull. 228, Contr. Mus. Hist. Techn.,
Paper 19, pp. 1-40, 41 figs., 1961.

Washburn, Wilcomb E. Ethnohistory:
History “in the round.” Hthnohis-
tory, vol. 8, No. 1, pp. 31-48, Winter
1961.

Watkins, C. Malcolm. North Devon
pottery and its export to America in
the 17th century. U.S. Nat. Mus.
Bull. 225, Contr. Mus. Hist. Techn.,
Paper 13, pp. 17-60, 36 figs. (1 in
color), 1960.

Welsh, Peter C. Brandywine: An
early flour-milling center. Ann. Rep.
Smithsonian Inst. for 1959, pp. 677—
686, 6 pls., 1960.

(See Garvan, Anthony N. B.)

Wetmore, Alexander. A classification
for the birds of the World. Smith-
sonian Mise. Coll., vol. 189, No. 11,
pp. 1-37, 1960.

Pleistocene birds in Bermuda.
Smithsonian Mise. Coll., vol. 140, No.
2, pp. 1-11, 3 pls., July 1960.

White, John H., Jr. The College Hill
narrow gauge. Bull. Hist. and Philos.
Soe. Ohio, pp. 227-239, 4 pls., October
1960.

Incline plane railways in Cincin-
nati. Bull. Hist. and Philos. Soc.
Ohio, pp. 163-164, April 1961.
Grant’s silver locomotive. Rail-
way and Locomotive Hist. Soc. Bull.
104, pp. 54-59, 3 illus., April 1961.
——. Aquifoliaceae.

PUBLICATIONS

Wurdack, John J. Certamen Melasto-
mataceis VI. Phytologia, vol. 7, No.
5, pp. 233-244, October 1960.

In Basset Ma-
guire, John J. Wurdack and collabo-
rators, Botany of the Guayana High-
land—IV (2).
Garden, vol. 10, No. 4, pp. 1-6, 2 figs.,
March 1961.

Melastomataceae. In Bassett
Maguire, John J. Wurdack and col-
laborators, Botany of the Guayana
Highland—IV (2). Mem. New York
Bot. Garden, vol. 10, No. 4, pp. 32-47,
3 figs., March 1961.

Mem. New York Bot. |.

115

Una nueva Polygalaceae de los
llanos Venezolanos. Bol. Soc. Vene-
zolana Cienc. Nat., vol. 22, Nos. 98-99,
pp. 8, 4, 1 fig., May 1961.

and Maguire, Bassett. La posi-
ciédn del Cerro de la Neblina, Vene-
zuela. Bol. Soc. Venezolana Cienc.
Nat., vol. 21, No. 96, pp. 234-239, 2
figs., June 1960 (received September
1960).

—— and Maguire, Bassett. Ochnaceae.

In Bassett Maguire, John J. Wurdack
and collaborators, Botany of the
Guayana Highland—IV (2). Mem.
New York Bot. Garden, vol. 10, No.
4, pp. 6-21, 3 figs., March 1961.
Donors to the National Collections

(EHacept when otherwise indicated, the specimens were presented by indi-
vidual donors or were transferred by the Bureaus of the Government in

accordance with law.)

A. M. Byers Co., Pittsburgh, Pa.:
(Through B. M. Byers) Puddling fur-
nace (233505).

Abendroth, Mrs. A., Teresépolis, Bra-
zil: Phanerogam from Brazil (231936).

Academy of Natural Sciences of
Philadelphia, Philadelphia, Pa.:
(Through Dr. Selwyn S. Roback) 7
midges, paratypes, from the U.S. (231-
929); (through Dr. Robert Robert-
son) 9 mollusks, including a paratype,
from Bimini, Bahamas (233790, ex-
change).

Academy of Sciences of the U.S.S.R.,
Moscow, U.S.S.R.: (Through Dr. Z. A.
Filatova) 607 fresh-water mollusks
from the U.S.S.R. (235694, exchange) ;
(through Prof. Sh. I. Sarycheva) 17
brachiopods from the Carboniferous,
Permian, and Triassic of Russia (2381-
894, exchange); (through Mrs. Z. G.
Stschedrina) 100 Recent Foraminifera
from various localities (227928, ex-
change). Zoological Institute:
(Through Dr. A. Stackelberg) 344 flies
from Russia (232094, 231928,
exchanges).

Acuna, Ing. Julian (See Estacién Bx-
perimental Agronémica)

Adelaide, University of, Adelaide,
South Australia: (Through Dr. A. W.
Kleeman) 11 minerals from Oonadatta,
South Australia (231710, exchange).

Adler, Dr. Hans H. (See Atomic
Energy Commission)

Adrian, Dr. H. (See Naturhistorisches
Museum)

Agee, Comdr. George W., New York,
N.Y.: Pocket medicine kit and Civil
War diary of Dr. Matthew A. Hender-
son (233497).

Agence Philatelique Haitiene (See
Haiti, Government of)

116

Agriculture, Department of, Suva,
Fiji: 2 phanerogams from Fiji
(235621). :

Agriculture, U.S. Department of,
Washington, D.C.: 2 phanerogams,
isotypes (232059); 172 phanerogams
from collection of the late Dr. S. F.
Blake (238549) ; (through Dr. Gabriel
Edwin) phanerogam, isotype (236114) ;
(through Edna Hoover) 2 sponges
(231305); (through Dr. B. Francis
Kukachka) 210 wood samples (234750) ;
(through Dr. Alan Stone) 2 crayfishes,
also parasites, from Montana (234-
316). Agricultural Research Service:
12 land snails from Mexico (229236) ;
301 phanerogams, 7 grasses, and 21
ferns collected by Howard Scott Gentry
in Mexico and southwestern United
States (231039) ; 39 phanerogams from
South Africa collected by Dr. Walter
Hodge (231041); 69,400 miscellaneous
insects, world-wide (232035, 235785) ;
55 phanerogams and 62 grasses (232053,
234985) ; 11 phanerogams collected in
Alabama by R. E. Perdue, Jr. (233039) ;
(through BE. J. Ford) 2,915 miscellane-
ous insects from Hawaii (232034);
(through Dr. F. J. Hermann) 8&6
phanerogams and 7 grasses of the U.S.
(231028) ;. (through Dr. G. E. Hilbert)
4,611 parasitic flies from the Orient
and Palaearctic, and 490 associated
slides (236028) ; (through Dr. Fred G.
Meyer) 28 bamboos (231554) ; (through
Dr. P. W. Oman) 150 land and fresh-
water snails and 8 snakes from Colom-
bia, Costa Rica, Hcuador, Hl Salvador,
France, Mexico, Netherlands New
Guinea, Okinawa, Panama, Peru,
Philippine Islands, Taiwan, Arizona,
and South Carolina (229031, 229554,
229747, 230007, 230755, 281087, 283532,
DONORS TO THE NATIONAL COLLECTIONS

233971) ; (through Dr. R. I. Sailer) 2
land snails from Mexico (2380332).
Forest Service: 565 phanerogams, 205
grasses, and 9 ferns (231552). Nation-
al Arboretum: 255 phanerogams col-
lected in Afghanistan by Walter Koelz
(232212). Soil Conservation Service:
3 grasses from Florida (232921).

Ahlner, Dr. Sten (See Naturhis-
toriska Riksmuseet)

Ahlstrom, Dr. Elbert H. (See Inte-
rior, U.S. Department of the)

Aitken, Dr. T. H. G., Port of Spain,
Trinidad: 47 flies from ‘Trinidad
(232191).

Akerley, James C. (See Chas. T. Main,
Ine.)

Alaska Department of Fish and
Game, Kodiak, Alaska: (Through Guy
C. Powell) 2 crabs (283340).

Albanese, John S., Union, N.J.: 10
minerals from  vyarious localities
(232255, 235444, 235452, 235548).

Albasin, Laird, Cadiz, Ohio: Hail-
wood lamp, 2 Davy lamps, and a miner’s
pick (235039).

Albert, Mr. and Mrs. Ernest, San
Francisco, Calif.; 16 marine mollusks
from Okinawa, Ryukyu Islands
(226400).

Albert, Sidney G., Great Neck, Long
Island, N.Y.: Russian paper money con-
sisting of 726 currency notes and docu-
ments of value (232127).

Albert and J. M. Anderson Mfg. Co.,
Boston, Mass.: (Through L. C. Cobbett)
Sprague electric motor (235993).

Alberta, University of, Edmonton,
Alberta, Canada: (Through Dr. R. E.
Folinsbee) 4 specimens of the Bruder-
heim, Canada, meteorite (233177, ex-
change).

Albertson, John, Washington, D.C.:
Parchment deed of the 18th century and
French sampler, 1841 (235056, 235641).

Albuquerque, Daley, Washington,
D.C.: 3 flies, paratypes, from Brazil
(232751).

Aldrich, Dr. Lewis E., Jr., Portland,
Oreg. : 4 slides, holotypes and paratypes,
of trematode worms (232797).

Alexander, Dr. Charles I, Dallas,
Tex.: (Through Dr. I. Gregory Sohn)
500 ostracodes from the Paleozoic,

117

Mesozoic, and Tertiary of North Amer-
ica and Hurope (231015).

Alexander, Dr. Charles P., Amherst,
Mass. : 3,806 miscellaneous insects from
North and South America (231218).

Alexander, R. J.. Washington, D.C.:
Copper nugget from the Kennecott Cop-

‘per Corp. Mine, Kennecott, Alaska
(283822).
Alexander, Dr. Taylor R., Coral

Gables, Fla.: 3 land snails from Bal-
boa, Panama (225391).

Alexis, Louis J. (See Commerce, U.S.
Department of)

Alicata, Dr. J. E. (See Hawaii, Uni-
versity of)

Allan, Greever (See Post Office De-
partment)

Allen, Dr. H. W., Moorestown, N.J.:

16 wasps from the West Indies
(235890) .

Allen, Dr. J. A. (See Dove Marine
Laboratory )

Allen, James E., Alexandria, La.:
Worm tube, Hocene, from the Red River
at Montgomery Landing, Grant Parish,
La. (232346).

Allen, William Slater, Providence,
R.I.: Robertson-Thompson steam en-
gine indicator, ca. 1900 (234643).

Allis-Chalmers Manufacturing Co.,
Milwaukee, Wis.: (Through Will
Mitchell) fuel cell tractor (232284).

Allred, Dr. Dorald M., Provo, Utah:
12 slides of mites from Utah (235021).

Allred, Rev. Hoyle T., Albemarle,
N.C.: 8 fresh-water snails from Cuba
(231807).

Allsopp, Dr. W. H. L. (See British
Guiana Department of Agriculture)

Alsaker, Dr. R. L., St. Petersburg,
Fla.: 4 marine mollusks from Aus-
tralia (232015).

Alsaker, Dr. R. L., Estate of:
(Through Mrs. Irene HE. Draper) 45
marine mollusks (236044).

Altick, H. K., Dayton, Ohio: Steel
rule, calipers, and engineer’s handbook
(2297382).

Aluminum Co. of America, Rosiclare,
Ill.: (Through W. 8S. Skeels, W. C. Lay,
and W. H. Harrison) 13 minerals from
Colorado, Illinois, and Kentucky
(231900).
118

American Fastener Co., Waterbury,
Conn.: (Through Max Keissling) eye-
let press for production of snap fasten-
ers (235968).

American Heritage Foundation, New
York, N.Y.: (Through Ralph H.
Becker) 62 items from recent elections
(236121).

American Museum of Natural His-
tory, New York, N.Y.: Bird skin
(233388, exchange); 12,445 phanero-
gams, 4389 grasses, 2,449 ferns, 439
cryptogams, and 8 woods collected by
Dr. L. J. Brass on the 6th Archbold
Expedition to New Guinea (235425) ;
(through Dr. Francesca T. LaMonte)
fish, paratype, from the Philippines
(233719) ; (through Dr. Norman D.
Newell) 20,000 silicified brachiopods
from the Permian of Guadalupe, Sierra
Diablo, and Glass Mountains, Tex.
(233905, exchange) ; (through Dr. J. G.
Rozen, Jr.) 34 legionary ants from Ari-
zona (235017) ; (through Dr. Donald F.
Squires) 110,000 invertebrate fossils
constituting the greater part of the
Greene collection (232542); (through
Dr. Richard G. Van Gelder) 2 para-
types of a squirrel from Burma (232942,
exchange).

American Oil Co., New York, N.Y.:
(Through John B. Goodman) Amoco
trophy (2386165).

American Rolex Watch Corp., New
York, N.Y.: (Through R. Dentan) 3
Rolex submariner watches and the Pic-
card Rolex watch which was attached
to the bathyscaph when it carried
Jacques Piccard and Lt. Don Walsh,
USN, to the floor of the Pacific Ocean
(233565).

American Society of Gem Counsel-
lors (See Browne, Meyer)

Anderson, Albert and J. M., Mfg. Co.
(See Albert and J. M. Anderson Mfg.
Co.)

Anderson, Dr. D. M., Washington,
D.C.: 2 holotypes and 18 paratypes of
Coleoptera from Utah (234140).

Anderson, J. M. S. (See Danish Postal
and Telegraph Museum)

Anderson, Oliver E., Cave-in-Rock,
Ill.: Calcite and sphalerite from Crys-
tal Mine, Ill. (231909).

U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1961

Anderson, Raymond C. (See Rockwell
Manufacturing Co.)

Anderson, Mr. and Mrs. Robbins Bat-
tell, and O’Neil, Mrs. Gilbert M., Nor-
folk, Conn.: Chinese Mandarin coat of
the 19th century (230781).

Anglada, D. (See Wolf Safety Lamp
Co. of America, Inc.)

Anonymous: 8 lace articles, rifle from
Kentucky, and 4 Medals of Honor
(231488, 232966, 235565).

Ansonia Manufacturing Co., Ansonia,
Conn.: (Through Clarence G. Nord-
strom) Davenport automatic screw
machine (285974).

Antonson, K. A., Falls Church, Va.:
44-star U.S. flag (233304).

Antunez, Francisco, Mexico, D.F.:
Piece of native antimony and kermesite

from Arechuyo, Chihuahua, Mexico
(231677).
Araga, Dr. Chiichi (See Natural
Aquarium)

Architect of the Capitol, Washington,
D.C.: (Through J. George Stewart)
DC generator panel assembly and 2
DC motors (235994).

Ardigo, Joseph J., Williamson, W.
Va.: Miner’s needle, 3 copies of the
pictorial section of the Washington Post
of 1928, and an old photograph of the
mine workers’ meeting of 1921 (235970).

Argonne National Laboratory, Ar-
gonne, Ill.: (Through Dr. Norman Hil-
berry) Langsdorf pile oscillator
(215530).

Aristeguieta, Dr. Leandro (See Min-
isterio de Agricultura y Cria)

Arizona, University of, Tucson, Ariz. :
(Through Dr. E. L. Cockrum) 45 mam-
mals from Mexico and the U.S. (232690,
exchange); (through Dr. Francis
Drouet) 9 algae from Antarctica
(233759); algae, isotype (234456) ;
(through Dr. J. T. Marshall, Jr.) bird’s
nest from the Caroline Islands
(282011).

Armstrong, Dr. Florence A., Alexan-
dria, Va.: Chest of drawers and mir-
ror, 3 rocking chairs, 4 side chairs, and
a pitcher (236052).

Arnett, Dr. R. H., Jr., Washington,
D.C.: Beetle from Africa (232027).
DONORS TO THE NATIONAL COLLECTIONS

Arnold, Charles (See Gilbert Clock
Co.)

Arnow, Theodore, Santurce, Puerto
Rico: Gorgonian (234784).

Aron, Dr. William (See Washington,
University of)

ARS Polona (See Poland, Govern-
ment of)

Arthur D. Little, Inc., Cambridge,
Mass.: Silk purse made from sows’ ears
(236084).

Arthur J. Dyer Observatory, Nash-
ville, Tenn.: (Through Robert Hardie)
4 specimens of the Murray Co., Ky.,
meteorite (236022).

Artman, Dr. R. A.
University )

Ashbrook, Arthur G., Pittsburgh, Pa.:
3 original cartoons by Cyrus Cotton
Hungerford (2319382).

Ashley, George, Pala, Calif.: 3 agate
bowls and bowl of amethyst and agate
(230719, exchange).

Ashlock, Peter D., Berkley, Calif.:
673 miscellaneous insects from Califor-
nia and other western states (232306,
exchange).

Ashworth, F. L. (See BE. E. Souther
Co.; and Peck, Stow and Wilcox Co.)

Aslakson, Capt. Carl I., Bethesda,
Md.: 18 marine mollusks from Aus-
tralia and the Canary Islands, also 1
hermit crab from the Canary Islands
(233502).

Athearn, Herbert D., Cleveland,
Tenn.: 995 fresh-water mollusks from
southeastern U.S. (234451).

Atlantic Refining Co., Dallas, Tex.:
(Through A. J. Krumholz) 32 inverte-
brate fossils from the Devonian of the
Spanish Sahara (231898).

Atlantic Union College, South Lan-
easter, Mass.: (Through Dr. David
Kissinger) holotype and 2 paratypes of
Coleoptera from Central America,
Mexico, and the U.S. (234022,
exchange).

Atomic Energy Commission, Wash-
ington, D.C.: (Through Brigham Young
University) 790 beetles and 10 weevils
from Nevada (234579); (through Dr.
Hans H. Adler) 50 drums of uranium
ores from various localities (231580).

(See Bucknell

119

Atyeo, Dr. Warren T., Lincoln, Nebr. :
8 mites, 2 holotypes and 6 paratypes
(222747, 232044).

Atyeo, Dr. Warren T., Lincoln, Nebr.,
Crossley, Dr. D. A., Oak Ridge, Tenn.,
and Falla, Dr. R. A., Wellington, New
Zealand: 8 slides of mites, paratypes
(235884).

Auburn University, Auburn, Ala.:
86 grasses and 7 phanerogams from
Alabama (231372, 233461).

Augur, Mrs. Morris C., Washington,
D.C.: 2 feathered Hawaiian hat bands
(234067).

Australia, Government of: Austral-
ian Museum: (Through Dr. Donald F.
McMichael) 39 mollusks mostly from
Australia (234717, exchange). Botanic
Gardens: 51 phanerogams, 26 grasses,
and 23 ferns from Australia (231855,
234079, exchanges).

Axelrod, Dr. Herbert R., Jersey City,
N.J.: 727 fishes, including 3 types, and
36 reptiles from various localities
(231149, 231641, 232567, 232615, 235204,
235493). (See also Géry, Dr. J. R.)

Aye, Capt. Tin, Fort Lee, Va. : 14 post-
age stamps of the Union of Burma
(234712).

Ayre, Katie May, Washington, D.C.:
Man’s watch chain of the mid-19th
century (233395).

Bacas, Mrs. Harry (See Zon, Mrs.
Henry)

Badger, Mrs. S. E., Middleburg, Va.:
1 lot of frogs and 21 snails from St.
Vincent, B.W.I., collected by donor
(235354).

Baer, Carlos A., Lehighton, Pa.: Sam-
ples of quartz yarn and fabric (232963).

Bagnal, John E., Arlington, Va.: Ger-
man Army wound badge of World War
II (234627).

Bailey, Prof. Stanley F.
fornia, University of)

Baker, Dr. Arthur A.
U.S. Department of the)

Baker, Mrs. Beatrice E. Wilson,
Washington, D.C.: Gentleman’s hatbox
of the 19th century (230588).

Baker, Lt. Col. Hinton J.
fense, U.S. Department of)

(See Cali-

(See Interior,

(See De-
120

Baker, James H., Baker, Oreg.: 50
centipedes, millipedes, scorpions, and
spiders from northwestern’ U.S.
(233828).

Baker, Ray A., Lompoc, Calif.: Fossil
teleost fish in the nodule from the
Miocene near Lompoc, Calif. (232555).

Balan Menon, P. K. (See Forest Re-
search Institute)

Baldwin, Wayne J. (See California,
University of)

Ball, Arthur W., Jr., Amarillo, Tex. :
40-star U.S. flag (231500).

Ball, Dr. George E., Jr., Edmonton,
Alberta, Canada: 35 centipedes from
Texas (234153).

Ball, Wiley S. (See San Fernando
Lodge No. 365)

Baltimore and Ohio Railroad Co.,
Baltimore, Md.: (Through L. W. Sagle)
6 railroad car drawings (236168).

Baltzo, Howard, Seattle, Wash.:
Slender-billed shearwater (233534).

Bandy, Dr. Mark C., Wickenburg,
Ariz.: Trilobite from the Devonian of
Bolivia (234442).

Banks, J. T., Norfolk, Va., and Mull-
mann, T. M., Charlottesville, Va.: 44
mammals from Virginia (236099).

Bann, Helen, Cincinnati, Ohio: Photo-
graph of Abraham Lincoln, engraved
wood-block based on this photograph,
and a proof impression (233838).

Barnawell, Dr. Earl B., Berkeley,
Calif.: Holotype and paratype of a
marine mollusk from San Francisco,
Calif. (282766).

Barnes, Col. Theodore, Miami Beach,
Fla.: Garnet engagement ring, Chinese
straw fan, and a Chinese scroll issued
to a government official during the 19th
century (234860).

Barney Neighborhood House, Wash-
ington, D.C.: 2 children’s dresses of the
late 19th and early 20th centuries
(2308387).

Barr, Dr. A. Ralph, Fresno, Calif.:
24 insects from North America (284606,
236032).

Bartholomew, Elizabeth Ann (See
West Virginia University)

Bartunek, John, Warren, Ohio: 15
Bureau precancel stamps with narrow
format, of Warren, Ohio (232125).

U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1961

Basilewsky, Dr. P. (See Musée Royal
de L’Afrique Centrale)

Basilio, Rev. Father Aurelio, Santa
Isabel, Spanish Guinea, West Africa:
115 mollusks from Spanish Guinea
(227639).

Bassler, Dr. R. S., Washington, D.C.:
Ancient exposure meter (233046).

Batchelor, Charles and Rosanna Me-
morial, Inc. (See Charles and Rosanna
Batchelor Memorial, Inc.)

Bauer, Henry R., Atlanta, Ga.: Woven
sandal from Arizona (228236).

Baxter, Mrs. Dorothy Lee, Chester,
Md.: Bottle, pipe, and 2 pieces of pot-
tery dredged from the Chesapeake Bay
(231845).

Bearden, Dr. Alan J., Ithaca, N.Y.:
(Through Edwin Over) 12 minerals
from Colorado and Utah (234600, ex-
change).

Beardsley, John W. (See Experiment
Station of the Hawaiian Sugar Plant-
ers’ Association)

Beattie, Robert, Lane Cove, Austra-
lia: 9 fishes from the Jurassic and 4
insects from the Permian of New South
Wales (2382524, exchange).

Beaudette Foundation for Biological
Research, Solvang, Calif.: (Through
Dr. E. Yale Dawson) 38 marine algae,
isotypes (232206).

Beck, Henry, Cumberland, R. I.: Mi-
crometer caliper (234026).

Becker, Edward C. (See Entomologi-
cal Research Institute)

Becker, Ralph E. (See American
Heritage Foundation; Bemiss-Jason
Corp.; Cameron, Mrs. Betty F.; Cam-
paign Products Co.; Columbia Specialty
Co.; Darcey Specialties Co., Inc.; Don
Marshall Co.; Elegant Button and
Novelty, Inc.; HEver-Ready Lace and
Textile Co.; Grogan Photo Co.; Handy
Hanky, Ine.; Howden Jewelers; Jolle
Jewelers International, Inc.; Knobby
Krafters; Marsh, Walt; Needlecraft
House; Paperlynen Co.; Porter, Lenore
B.; R. B. Associates; Rapp, Andrew ;
Romero, R.; United Publishing Co.,
Inec.; Vari-vue Animations; Waldman
Button Co.; and Zoo-Line.)

Bees, L. E. (See Union Hardware Co.)
DONORS TO THE NATIONAL COLLECTIONS

Beil, Dr. Hanswilhelm, G6ttingen,
Germany: 2 autunites from Italy
(231024, exchange).

Bekker, Konrad, Washington, D.C.: 6
tourmalines from lLoikaw, Burma
(233823).

Belkin, Dr. John N., Los Angeles,
Calif.: 66 mosquitoes, types, from the
South Pacifie (234012).

Bell, Dr. J. Frederick (See Health,
Education, and Welfare, U.S. Depart-
ment of)

Bellis, M/Sget. E. H., Forest Heights,
Md.: Card with signature of Charles
Guiteau, assassinator of James A. Gar-
field (232214).

Bemiss-Jason Corp., Chicago, IIl.:
(Through Ralph HE. Becker) 6 corru-
gated cardboard posters from the Re-
publican 1960 campaign (236132).

Benesh, Bernard, Burrville, Tenn.: 7
beetles from Tennessee (234857).

Bennett, Dr. Charles F., Jr. Los
Angeles, Calif.: 4 shrimps and 2 crabs
(232704).

Bennett, Gorden F., Toronto, Canada:
25 rodent bot flies from Ontario
(235885) .

Benninghoff, Dr. William S.
Michigan, University of)

Benoub, Mounir Wadie (See Insti-
tute of Hydrobiology and Fisheries)

Ben-Tuvia, Adam (See Sea Fisheries
Research Station, The)

Berard, Samuel J., Providence, R. I.:
Early type of zipper (235963).

Berdan, Dr. Jean M. (See Interior,
U.S. Department of the)

Berkebile, Don, Takoma Park, Md.:
Saw jointer and gage (232225).

Bern, University of, Bern, Switzer-
land: (Through J. Geiss) specimen of
Kandahar, Afghanistan meteorite
(235709, exchange).

Berry, Charles A., Wilkes-Barre, Pa.:
Original sketch by James Montgomery
Flagg (232967).

Berry, Frederick (See Musée Royal
de L’Afrique Centrale)

Berwick, Mrs. Clara W., Norwood,
Mass.: 6 Persian rugs (234458, 234459).

609091—_61—_—_9

(See

121

Betts, Basil Henry (deceased) :
(Through Brig. Gen. T. J. Betts) 2
Japanese chairs (232172).

Betts, Brig. Gen. T. J. (See Betts,
Basil Henry, deceased)

Betz, Mrs. George, Washington, D.C.:
American rocking chair, ca. 1838, and
a plush jacket of the 19th century
(233836) .

Bevier, E. B., Grand Island, Nebr.:
Drum, strap, and baldrie of the Civil
War period (232886).

Beyer, Dr. H. Otley, Manila, Repub-
lie of the Philippines: 6,991 tektites
from the Philippines and Laos and 258
pseudotektites from the Philippines
(224866, 226211).

Biagegi, Dr. Virgilio, Jr. (See Puerto
Rico, University of)

Biays, Mrs. E. Tuckerman (See Triest,
Mrs. Willard)

Bideaux, George, Tucson, Ariz.: 3
minerals from _ various localities
(235919, exchange).

Bideaux, Pvt. Richard A., Fort Mon-
mouth, N.J.: 2 minerals from Arizona
and Montana (235448).

Bien, Corabel, Bethesda, Md.: 11
items used and made at the Takoma
Park kindergarten and articles asso-
ciated with donor’s family (234821).

Biese, Dr. Walter, Santiago, Chile: 39
marine and land mollusks from Chile
(230599) .

Biezanko, Dr. C., Pelotas, Brazil: 453
miscellaneous insects from Brazil
(231010, 233527, 285833).

Bigi, Prof. Federico, Republica di
San Marino, Italy: First-day cover
franked with 14 postage stamps of San
Marino commemorating the 17th Olym-
piade (231756).

Bingham, Mrs. Millicent Todd, Wash-
ington, D.C.: Shaving mirror and lamp
(233035).

Bishop, Dr. Philip W., Washington,
D.C.: 2 philatelic covers of Russia
(236148).

Bishop Museum, Bernice P., Hono-

lulu, Hawaii: (Through Dr. BH. H.
Bryan, Jr.) 31 woods (235628, ex-
change).
122

Bishop Museum, Bernice P., Hono-
lulu, Hawaii; Defense, U.S. Department
of ; and Smithsonian Institution, Wash-
ington, D.C.: (Through Col. Robert
Traub) 600 mammals, 591 birds, 39 rep-
tiles and amphibians, 92 mollusks, 2
marine invertebrates, and 22 insects
from South Viet Nam collected by Bern-
ard Feinstein (231561, gift-transfer).

Black, Harriet, E., Washington, D.C.:
34-star U.S. flag (232061).

Blackford, James Baylor, Richmond,
Va.: U.S.S.R. naval ensign (235566).

Blackmar, Mrs. H. B., Omaha, Nebr.:
30 varied items, including Victorian
table silver, shaving mirrors, and chil-
dren’s books (232677).

Blacksin, Mrs. Martin, Hyattsville,
Md.: Russian silver dinner knife and
fish knife and fork (231741).

Biaker, Mrs. Margaret (See Omwake,
H. G.; and Smithsonian Institution) ,

Blancett, Esther G., Washington,
D.C.: 5 first-day covers of the U.S. and
2 Italian post cards (234176, 236159).

Blanchard, Ruth (See Smithsonian
Institution)

Blanford, Ned, McLean, Va.: 33 min-
erals from various localities (232087).

Bogert, R. K., Jr. (See Morrell,
Junior)

Boles, Emil, Amawalk, N.Y.: Colleec-
tion of unusual dental instruments
(PRCA e

Bonarski, Dr. Adam (See Poland,
Government of)

Borro, Dr. Primitive, Havana, Cuba:
5 brachiopods from the Eocene of Cuba
(234131).

Boss, Marcellus Graeme (See Guam
Department of the Interior)

Boston University, Boston, Mass.:
(Through Dr. Arthur G. Humes) 10 sea
anemones (2385126).

Bostrom, Martin, Orebro, Sweden:
First jet flight cover, Stockholm to
New York, May 1, 1960 (234045).

Botanical Museum and Herbarium,
Utrecht, Netherlands: 20 phanerogams
(283900).

Botanische Staatssammlung, Mu-
nich, Germany: Lichen from Europe
(229764).

U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1961

Botanischer Garten und Museum,
Berlin-Dahlem, Germany: 116 photo-
graphs of phanerogams (231749, ex-
change).

Boucot, Dr. Arthur J., Cambridge,
Mass.: 6 andalusites from Ireland
(236021).

Bournierx, Dr. A. (See Laboratoire de
Zoologie)

Bourquin, Fernand, Buenos Aires,
Argentina: Small moth, paratype, from
South America (232095).

Bousfield, Dr. E. L. (See Canada, Goy-
ernment of)

Boutelje, Dr. Julius (See Swedish
Forest Products Research Laboratory)

Bowen, Leroy F., Beltsville, Md.: 2
stoneware gingerale bottles (232192).

Bowker, H. F., Oakland, Calif.: 3
coins from Hong Kong (231056).

Bowman, Thomas E., Washington,
D.C.: Plankton (232145). (See also
Scripps Institution of Oceanography)

Boyd, E., Santa Fe, N. Mex.: 16 table
knives and a ceramic tile (285049).

Boyd, F. R. (See Carnegie Institution
of Washington)

Boyd, Mrs. Helen L., East Orange,
N.J.: 209 U.S. Emergency and Depres-
sion Serip (2384050).

Boyer, Prof. R. A. (See Muhlenberg
College)

Boyer, Mrs. William P., Bethesda,
Md.: Korona view camera with Dall-
meyer lens (2382965).

Braden, G. C., Darlington, Pa.: 2 sets
of ecannel coal (235686).

Bradford, Faith, Washington, D.C.:
Pair of 19th-century hair earrings and
daguerreotype of subject wearing a
dress now in the Smithsonian collec-
tions (280605); souvenir flags and
photographs relating to the official re-
eeption given Admiral Dewey in 1899
(235952).

Bradley, E. A. (See Norton Co. of
Canada, Ltd.)

Bradshaw, Mrs. Frederic H., Oak
Park, Ill.: 6 etchings by Charles W.
Dahlgreen (231414).

Bramlette, Dr. M. N., La Jolla, Calif. :
43 slides containing microfossils, types,
from the Early Tertiary of California
(231571).
DONORS TO THE NATIONAL COLLECTIONS

Branch, Nina (See Entomological Re-
search Center)

Brandhorst, C. T., Seward, Nebr.: 8
moths from Nebraska (232028, 232029).

Brandt, John H., Brooklyn, N.Y.: 84
ethnological items from the Caroline
and Marshall Islands; 66 eggs and 18
nests from the Caroline Islands
(231380, 231718, exchanges).

Brandt, Dr. Rolf A., Hamburg, Ger-
many: (Through Al Hoffman) 652 land
and fresh-water mollusks from Libya,
including 235 paratypes (234612).

Branham, Mrs. Hugh, Baltimore, Md.:
(Through William H. Old, Jr.) mollusk,
paratype, from Kermadec Islands, New
Zealand (234155).

Bratter, Herbert M., Washington,
D.C.: Mandarin hat of the Chinese Hm-
pire (232174).

Brazenor, Dr. Charles W. (See Na-
tional Museum of Victoria )

Breakey, E. P. (See Washington State
University )

Bredin, Mr. and Mrs. Bruce (See
Bredin Fund)

Bredin Fund, Smithsonian Institu-
tion: (Through Mr. and Mrs. Bruce
Bredin) A large collection of mammals,
reptiles, fishes, insects, arthropods,
other invertebrates, and mollusks col-
lected by the Smithsonian-Bredin HEx-
pedition to the Cayman Islands and
Mexico, 1960 (229190).

Breland, Dr. Osmond P., Austin,
Tex.: 17 mosquitoes from Colorado
(234011).

Brennan, James M. (See Health, Ed-
ucation, and Welfare, U.S. Department
of )

Bretzfelder, Dr. K. B., New Haven,
Conn.: 46 fire-fighting accessories and
set of child’s picture blocks (233360,
235948).

Brigham, Lester H., Southbridge,
Mass.: 1638 U.S. stamps precanceled
“Southbridge, Mass.” (236144).

Brigham Young University
Atomie Energy Commission)

Brinkley, Russ (See Silver Wings
Fraternity )

British Columbia, University of,
Vancouver, Canada; 194 phanerogams,

(See

123

7 grasses, and 80 ferns (236116, ex-
change).

British Guiana Department of Agri-
culture, Georgetown: (Through Dr. W.
H. L. Allsopp and Dr. Stillman Wright)
78 shrimps (230758).

British Honduras Department of
Agriculture, Central Farm, British
Honduras: 36 grasses from British
Honduras (231128).

Brock, Norman H., New York, N.Y.:
(Through Clarence P. Mitchell) 325
World War I posters (232120).

Brown, F. K. (See Continental Screw
Co.)

Brown, Janice, Washington, D.C.:
Votes for Women pin (233301).

Brown, Noel K., New York, N.Y.: 6
Foraminifera, types, from the Upper
Cretaceous of Cuba (235002).

Brown, Dr. W. J. (See Canada, Gov-
ernment of)

Brown, Dr. W. L. (See Harvard Uni-
versity)

Brown University, Providence, R.I.:
(Through George M. Smith) 55 pieces
of electrical apparatus (235101).

Browne, Meyer, and American So-

ciety of Gem Counsellors, Boston,
Mass. : 38 watches (231060).
Brunner, John, Brooksville, Fla.:

Worm lizard (230961).

Bryan, Dr. E. H., Jr. (See Bishop
Museum, Bernice P.)

Buckley, Mrs. Evelyn Bright, Wash-
ington, D.C.: 84 newspapers published
in the early 19th century (231750).

Buckley, Mrs. W. W., Washington,
D.C.: 3 original drawings by William
Allen Rogers and a lithograph of Dis-
tribution of the American Art-Union
Prizes, Dec. 1847 (235649).

Bucknell University, Lewisburg, Pa.:
(Through Dr. R. A. Artman) 8 pieces
of ancient physical and electrical ap-
paratus (235481).

Buffalo Society of Natural Sciences,
Buffalo, N.Y.: 10 phanerogams collected
in Mexico by R. F. Andrle and H. H.
Axtell (230993).

Bulkeley, Morgan, Copake Falls,
N.Y.: Fossil lobster claw from the
Miocene of Gay Head, Mass. (234443).
124

Bullis, Harvey R. (See Interior, U.S.
Department of the)

Bullock, Dr. D. S., Angol, Chile: 8
woods and 6 herbarium vouchers
(231551).

Bunker, Mrs. Evans, Colfax, Wash.:
Framed “Coat of Arms” illustrating
the military career of Capt. George A.
Deering (235949).

Burbanck, Dr. W. D. (See Emory Uni-
versity).

Burch, Dr. John B. (See Michigan,
University of).

Burch, John Q., Los Angeles, Calif. :
20 snails from various localities, in-
cluding a species from Inaccessible Is-
land (230968).

Burchfiel, Clark, New Haven, Conn. :
6 brachiopods from the early Ordovi-
cian of Nevada (235464).

Burden, Mrs. W. A. M., New York,
N.Y.: Chaise longue and four-post bed
with hangings of the 18th century
(232405).

Burdette, Mrs. John S., Arlington,
Va.: Rocking chair, 4-poster bed, a
Philippine Moro shield, a trundle bed,
and a sofa (235051).

Burdette, Mr. and Mrs. John §., Ar-
lington, Va.: Seth Thomas striking and
alarm clock and a Calumet watch
(2819538).

Bureau, Dr. René, Quebec, Canada:
70 brachiopods from the Ordovician of
Port Neuf, Quebec (233272).

Burgess, Dr. C. M., Honolulu, Hawaii:
245 marine mollusks from Hawaii and
2 marine mollusks from the Marquesas
and Red Sea (232407, 233961, 235678,
exchanges).

Burke, Dr. Horace R., College Sta-
tion, Tex.: 2 paratypes of weevils from
America north of Mexico (236034).

Burke, John P., Brookmont, Md.:
Yellow-bellied sapsucker (236024).

Burks, Dr. Barnard D., Washington,
D.C.: 30 covers bearing miscellaneous
foreign postage stamps (233848,
236160).

Burleigh, T. D. (See Interior, U.S.
Department of the)

Burnstine, Bernard N., Chevy Chase,
Md.: Ivory thimble and wooden ease,
possibly of the 18th century (2383959).

U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM

ANNUAL REPORT, 1961

Burton, Mrs. E. J., Washington, D.C.:
Curtain ring from the White House
Hast Room, ca. 1900, and a serving dish
and plate from the state china of the
Theodore Roosevelt and Benjamin Har-
rison administrations, respectively
(235385).

Bushee, Mrs. Florence, Newburyport,
Mass.: 7 antique chairs and a table
(2313816).

Bushey, Dr. Harold L., Barbourville,
Ky.: Wooden nickel commemorating the
1960 Daniel Boone festival (233311).

Bushman, John B., Dugway, Utah:
Kit fox from Utah (235217).

Butler, Dr. Philip A. (See Interior,
U.S. Department of the)

Byers, B. M. (See A. M. Byers Co.)

Cadenat, Dr. Jean (See Institut
Francais d’Afrique Noire)

Caldwell, Dr. W. G. E., Saskatoon,
Canada: 200 invertebrate fossils from
the Devonian, Norman Wells area,
N.W.T. (284183).

Calhoun, C. A. Port Lavaca, Tex.:
Brackish-water clam from Calhoun Co.,
Tex. (233226).

California, University of: Berkeley
Campus: 55 phanerogams and 29 ferns
(230988, 231388, 231454) ; 673 phaner-
ogams, 48 grasses, and 20 ferns collec-
ted on the University of California
Botanical Garden’s Sixth Expedition to
the Andes (2381978, 234403, gift-ex-
changes); 58 phanerogams (230898,
233040, exchanges); (through Dr. J.
Wyatt Durham) fossil termite from
Chiapas, Mexico (234814); (through
Dr. Paul D. Hurd, Jr.) 6 bees, paratypes,
from California (234605, exchange) ;
(through J. W. MacSwain) slide mount
of insect larvae from California
(231409) ; (through William A. New-
man) 9 barnacles (235188); (through
Jerry A. Powell) 4 small moths from
California (230862) and 80 small moths
from the U.S. (235894, exchange).
Davis Campus: (Through Prof. Stan-
ley F. Bailey) 2 slides of thrips from
California and Guam (2382186). La
Jolla Campus: (Through Dr. H. BH.
Suess) 4 meteorites from France and
West Australia (231812, exchange).
Los Angeles Campus: 98 phanerogams
DONORS TO THE NATIONAL COLLECTIONS

and 90 grasses (2382110, exchange) ;
(through Wayne J. Baldwin) 13 fishes
from the eastern Pacific (230727);
(through Alfred W. Ebeling) fish, holo-
type, from the Galapagos Islands
(231479) ; (through Ernst S. Reese) 8
hermit crabs (230591); (through Dr.
Boyd W. Walker) 35 congrid eels, in-
cluding holotypes and _ paratypes
(216157, exchange). Citrus Hazperi-
ment Station: (Through Dr. Evert I.
Schlinger) 73 parasitic wasps, includ-
ing 3 holotypes, from Hong Kong and
California (233280).

California Academy of Sciences, San
Francisco, Calif. : 2 flies, paratypes, and
12 grasses from California (232701,
233333, 2338665); (through W. I. Fol-
lett) 35 shrimps (233587); (through
Dr. Leo G. Hertlein) 152 marine mol-
lusks from Clipperton Island (232147,
exchange) ; (through C. Don MacNeill)
3 toad bugs from New Guinea (230815) ;
(through Dr. Allyn G. Smith) 2 land
snails, paratypes, from ‘Trinity Co.,
Calif., and 4 marine mollusks from East-
er Island (234158, 235900, exchanges).

California Department of Public
Health, Berkeley Calif.: (Through
Gail Grodhaus) 23 flies from California
(231001).

Cambridge, Sgt. Philip, Cardiff,
Wales: 72 brachiopods and 15 verte-
brate fossils from the Paleozoic and
Mesozoic of Great Britain (232470,
exchange).

Cameron, Mrs. Betty F., Bethesda,
Md.: (Through Ralph EH. Becker) 2
“Pin the Trunk on the Elephant” games
created by donor (234651).

Cameron, Prof. G. H. (See Hamilton
College).

Campaign Products Co., Hollywood,
Calif.: (Through Ralph BH. Becker) 16
plastic hats from the 1960 presidential
campaign (236133).

Campbell, Mrs. Ann S., Washington,
D.C.: 4 U.S. and foreign postal cards
(234465).

Campbell, Dr. K. S. W. (See New Eng-
land, University of)

Canada, Government of: Department
of Agriculture: 318 phanerogams, 49

125

grasses, and 9 ferns from Canada
(233555, 234984, exchanges) ; (through
Dr. W. J. Brown) 19 tiger beetles from
Canada (235844) ; (through George R.
Hopping) 32 scolytid beetles from Can-
ada (233347) ; (through Dr. L. A. Kel-
ton) 11 insects, paratypes, from North
America (281002); (through G. E.
Shewell) 2 flies (232871, exchange).
Department of Forestry: (Through A.
W. H. Damman) 5 lichens from Labra-
dor (233726) ; (through Dr. George H.
Hopping) 8 paratypes of insects (233-
938). Department of Northern Affairs
and National Resources: (Through A.
W. H. Damman) 6 lichens from New-
foundland (232547). Geological Sur-
vey of Canada: (Through Dr. K. R.
Dawson) slice of the Abee meteorite
(235719, exchange). National Museum
of Canada: (Through Dr. E. L. Bous-
field) 10 amphipods (230590, ex-
change); (through Dr. Arthur H.
Clarke, Jr.) 223 brackish-water mol-
lusks from the West Indies (230715, ex-
change).

Canfield Fund, Smithsonian Insti-
tution: 15 minerals from various local-
ities (231192, 231689); sphene from
Baja California, Mexico (232086) ;
peridot crystal, 90 carats, from the Isle
of St. John, Red Sea, Egypt (235440).

Cannard, S. George, Dewart, Pa.:
Potsherds and charred wood from In-
dian River Co., Fla. (234974).

Cantelo, Dr. W. W., San Francisco,
Calif.;: 2 snakes from Guam (229175).

Capart, Dr. A. (See Institut Royal
des Sciences Naturelles de Belgique)

Cape Haze Marine Laboratory, Pla-
cida, Fla.: (Through Dr. Eugenie Clark
and Dr. H. Steinitz) 778 marine fishes
from the Red Sea (231715).

Caplin, Mortimer M. (See Treasury,
U.S. Department of the)

Card & Osborne, Inc., Washington,
D.C.: (Through Charles M. Osborne)
garnet from Russia, 3.36 carats (234999,
exchange).

Cardenas, Dr. Martin, Cochabamba,
Bolivia: 3 phanerogams from Bolivia
(231220).
126

Caribbean Marine Biological Insti-
tute, Curacao, Netherlands West In-
dies: (Through Dr. J. S. Zaneveld) 12
gorgonians (210447).

Carlquist, Dr. Sherwin, Claremont,
Calif.: 800 slides of pollen preparation
(232109, 233045, exchange); (through
Dr. Warren S. Drugg) 100 slides of
pollen (234068, exchange); (through
Dr. A. R. Loeblich) 200 slides of pollen

(232961, 233553, exchanges). (See
also Rancho Santa Ana _ Botanic
Garden)

Carnegie Institution of Washington,
Washington, D.C.: (Through F. R.
Boyd) analyzed actinolite from Man-
chester, N.H. (235917).

Carothers, Mrs. Genevieve Moore,
Cape Cod, Mass.: Dress of the Empire
period (233597).

Carpenter, Charles W. (See Techni-
color Corp.)

Carpenter, Mrs. Eva Amelia, North
Miami Beach, Fla.: 7 marine mollusks
from Key Biscayne, Fla. (226192).

Carpenter, Maj. Walter N., Spring-
field, Va.: 49 miscellaneous mollusks
(233533).

Carr Fastener Co., Cambridge, Mass. :
(Through Wylmer Churchill)  six-
spindle eyelet machine and die set com-
plete with component parts and samples
(235964) .

Carranza, Jorge (See Instituto Tec-
nologico de Veracruz)

Carrier Corp. Syracuse, N.Y.:
(Through L. Logan Lewis) Carrier
centrifugal refrigeration compressor
(232896) .

Carrillo, Ing. José Luis, Mexico, D.F.:
8 insects from North America (232041).
(See also Rockefeller Foundation)

Carroll, Mrs. J. J., Arlington, Va.: 9-
piece Korean costume for a 1-year-old
boy (232171).

Carry, J. M. (See M. W. Kellogg Co.
and Esso Standard)

Cartwright, O. L., Washington, D.C.:
3 isopods (233449) ; 10,000 miscellane-
ous scarab beetles, mostly from North
America (235807) ; 10,000 miscellaneous
beetles from the Western Hemisphere
(235825).

U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1961

Casanova, Richard L., Statesville,
N.C.: 8 fossil blastoids from the Gasper
limestone of Moulton, Ala. (231895).

Casco Products Corp., Bridgeport,
Conn.: (Through L. F. Taylor) auto-
matic screw machine (235961).

Cate, Crawford N., Los Angeles,
Calif.: Paratype of a marine mollusk
from Oahu, Hawaii (235898).

Causey, Dr. Nell B., Fayetteville,
Ark.: 27 millipedes, including para-
types, from the U.S. (234144, 234813) ;
35 centipedes from Alabama, Mexico
and Texas (235026, 235848).

Centre de Recherches Agronomiques
des Antilles, Petit-Bourg, Guadeloupe:
2 phanerogams (2380773).

Centro Nazionale del  Legno,
Florence, Italy: (Through Dr. G. Gior-
dano) 23 woods (233761, exchange).

Chace, E. P., San Diego, Calif: 14
crabs (220592).

Chaconas, Mrs. Mary-Grace (See
Chaconas, Peter)
Chaconas, Peter, Annandale, Va.:

(Through Mrs. Mary-Grace Chaconas)
hybrid fish from Virginia (234815).
Chagnon, George E., New Bedford,

Mass.: 138 precanceled stamps
(233568).

Chalk, Dr. L. (See Oxford, Univer-
sity of)

Chamberlain Fund, Frances Lea,
Smithsonian Institution: Peridot, 22.9
earats, from Arizona (233154); tour-
maline from Brazil (234486); topaz,
146.35 carats, from Mason Co., Tex.
(234597) ; pink scapolite, 12.33 carats,
from Burma (235446).

Chapelle, Howard I., Alexandria, Va.:
2 builder’s half-models from Connecti-
cut (2382979).

Charles and Rosanna Batchelor Me-
morial, Inc., New York, N.Y.: 54,930
items of stamps, seals, coins, buttons,
lamps, bottles, vases, scientific instru-
ments, and miscellaneous items, includ-
ing the Emma BE. Batchelor collection
of stamps (233749).

Chas. T. Main, Inc., Port Hawkesbury,
Nova Scotia, Canada: (Through James
©. Akerley) iron nail believed to be
from a Spanish vessel of the 18th cen-
tury (229907).
DONORS TO THE NATIONAL COLLECTIONS

Cheatum, E. P., Dallas, Tex.: 3 cam-
podids from _ Sitton’s Cave, Ark.
(231350).

Chen, Chi Ling, New Haven, Conn.:
9 microscope slides of wood (235631).

Cheng, Dr. Thomas C., Easton, Pa.:
4. fresh-water snails from Pennsylvania
(280990).

Cheng, Dr. Tien-Hsi, University Park,
Pa.: (Through Dr. Edwin L. Cooper)
dried fish from Hong Kong (235784).

Chesapeake Biological Laboratory,
Solomons, Md.: (Through Dr. Frank
J. Schwartz) 4 fishes from Chesapeake
Bay (282872).

Chicago, University of, Chicago, Tl.:
8 phanerogams from Bolivia (232199) ;
(through Dr. Mark G. Inghram) A. J.
Dempster’s mass spectrometer
(2353818).

Chicago Natural History Museum,
Chicago, Ill.: Grass from Montana col-
lected by John W. Thieret (234071) ;
1,360 phanerogams, 52 grasses, 20 ferns,
53 eryptogams, and 600 photos of phan-
erogams, types (232878, 283548, 233837,
234804, 235119, 236117, exchanges) ;
(through Dr. J. W. Thieret) 42 wood
samples (232752, exchange); (through
Dr. Louis O. Williams) fern from
Panama and a wood specimen (2382633,
234993).

Childs, Prof. H. R. (See Rochester,
University of)

Christ, Dr. Edwin A., Vermillion, S.
Dak.: One-half sheet of 144-cent Cincin-
nati precancel stamps with five “OIHO”
errors, proof sheet and a sample stamp
of Vermillion, §S. Dak. precancels
(232124).

Christenson, L. W., Cleveland
Heights, Ohio: 2 complete Japanese
stamp booklets of 1899 and 4volume
specialized collection of 2-sen and 4-sen

postage stamps of Japan, 1872-74
(233314, 233688) .
Christie, Lansdell K., New York,

N.Y.: Rigged model of brigantine sloop
Ferret (231566).
Christie, Robert D. (See Historical
Society of Western Pennsylvania)
Chuang, Dr. S. H., Singapore, Malaya:
100 Recent fossil brachiopods from the
north coast of Singapore (231740).

127

Chudnoff, Martin (See Forest Re-
search Station)

Churchill, Wylmer (See Carr Fast-
ener Co.)

Cierezko, Dr. Leon S. (See Oklahoma,

University of)
_ Cincinnati, University of, Cincinnati,
Ohio: (Through Dr. Thomas K. Wil-
son) 39 slides of woods (234621, ex-
change).

Clain-Stefanelli, Mrs. Elvira, Wash-
ington, D.C.: 8 silver and copper coins
of the world (232219).

Clain-Stefanelli, Dr. V., Washington,
D.C. : 34 miscellaneous U.S. and foreign
covers bearing postage stamps and
postal meter impressions (234180,
236158).

Clark, Dr. Eugenie (See Cape Haze
Marine Laboratory)

Clark University, Worcester, Mass.:
Phanerogam (231221, exchange) ;
(through Dr. Burton N. Gates) 76 ferns
and 60 lichens from Massachusetts
(232204, 233332).

Clarke, Dr. Arthur H., Jr. (See Can-
ada, Government of)

Clarke, Dr. J. F. Gates, Washington,
D.C.: 8 U.S. 2-cent envelopes, with
various watermarks, revalued 6-cents
for airmail use (236146).

Claudy, Carl H., Jr., Washington,
D.C.: American flag and album asso-
ciated with the Massachusetts guber-
natorial campaign of 1913 (235934).

Claybourn, Mrs. Catherine J., Albert
Lea, Minn.: Portrait lithograph of
Abraham Lincoln in its original gilt
frame, 1864 (231939).

Clement, B. E., Marion, Ky.: 9 min-
erals from Southern Illinois-Kentucky
fluorspar mining district (232180).

Clement, Robert E., Chester Springs,
Pa.: Radio receiver kit (235390).

Clements, D. Thomas (See United Na-
tions Postal Administration )

Clench, Dr. William J. (See Harvard
University)

Clifton Springs Sanitarium and
Clinic, Clifton Springs, N.Y.: (Through
C. D. Corwin, Jr.) Frick refrigeration
compressor, 1898 (236002).

Cline, Howard F. (See Library of
Congress)
128

Clinton, Daniel J., Annandale, Va.:
Felt hat and pan-pipe from the Otavalo
Indians of Ecuador collected by donor,
1946 (234980).

Cloake, T. Reginald, Collegeville, Pa.:
Blouse of the early 1900’s (283922).

Closs, Prof. Dr. D. (See Universidade
do Rio Grande do Sul)

Cloud, Dr. Preston E. (See Interior,
U.S. Department of the)

Coats and Clark Co. Warren, R.I.:
(Through Frederick EH. Lohse) group of
die-cast slide fasteners (235960).

Cobbett, L. C. (See Albert and J. M.
Anderson Mfg. Co.)

Cockrum, Dr. E. L. (See Arizona,
University of)

Cohen, Dr. Daniel M. (See Interior,
U.S. Department of the; Sea Fisheries
Research Station, The; Verhoeff,
Roger; Washington, University of)

Cointepoix, Robert R.. West Palm

Beach, Fla.: Manx shearwater
(233474).
Colby, Susan, Washington, D.C.:

Malayan post card, Kenya cover, and
Spanish cover (284467).

Cole, Dr. Gerald A., Tempe, Ariz.: 21
amphipods, including holotype and para-
types (231129).

Colegio de La Salle, Vedado, Cuba:
Fern and grass from Cuba (2810380,
231046).

Colgate University, Hamilton, N.Y.:
(Through Prof. Clement L. Henshaw)
17 items of physical and electrical
apparatus (234695).

College of Physicians of Philadel-
phia, Philadelphia, Pa.: (Through Mrs.
Ella N. Wade) 8 surgical instruments
(235475).

Collette, Dr. Bruce B., Washington,
D.C.: 14 crayfishes (233140). (See
also Cornell University; and Miami,
University of)

Collier, Frederick J., Alexandria, Va.:
20 mollusks from the Miocene of Rice’s
Pit, Hampton, Va. (235003).

Collins, Jeremiah (See Smithsonian
Institution)

Collins, Robert (See Moore, Sewell
122)

U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1961

Cologne, University of, Cologne,
Germany : 11 phanerogams from Bolivia
and Peru (283550).

Colorado School of Mines, Golden,
Colo.: (Through Donald H. Johnson) 2
minerals from Colorado and Nevada
(233776, exchange).

Columbia Specialty Co., Van Nuys,
Calif.: (Through Ralph E. Becker) 2
plastic hats from the 1960 presidential
campaign (236124).

Coluzzi, Dr. Mario, Rome, Italy: 14
mosquitoes from Italy and Somalia
(235808).

Combs, Lee, Beverly Hills, Calif.:
2,568 State Decaleomania Revenue
stamps known as the Lee Hefner Combs
Memorial collection (284170); 1,715
city Decaleomania Revenue stamps
(234822).

Commerce, U.S. Department of,
Washington, D.C.: Bureau of the Cen-
sus: (Through Louis J. Alexis) U.S.
census enumerator’s kit from the 1960
census, including ordinary enumerating
materials (2359387). National Bureau
of Standards: (Through Carl F. Sny-
der) laboratory apparatus and equip-
ment (231765). Weather Bureau: 3
psychrometers, radiosonde, and 3
pyrheliometers (231230).

Commonwealth Institute of Ento-
mology, London, England: (Through
Donald Macfarlane) centipede from
Australia (235800).

Commonwealth Scientific and Indus-
trial Research Organization, Canberra,
Australia: 266 phanerogams and 52
grasses from Australia (233679,
exchange).

Communaute Europeenne de |’Ener-
gie Atomique, Brussels, Belgium:
(Through Dr. L. Van Wambeke) 14
minerals (281904, exchange).

Compton, Henry (See Game and Fish
Commission)

Condrashoff, Dr. S. F. (See Forest
Biology Laboratory)

Conkin, Dr. James E., Louisville,
Ky.: 167 Foraminifera from the Mis-
sissippian of southern Indiana, Ken-
DONORS TO THE NATIONAL COLLECTIONS

tucky, northern Tennessee and south-
central Ohio (235008).

Conklin, Mrs. Dora R. (See Interior,
U.S. Department of the)

Conley, Blaine, Swan River, Minn.:
Goethite from Mesabi Range, Itasca
Co., Minn. (232903).

Connally, J. Ed., Abilene, Tex.: En-
graved copy of President John F.
Kennedy’s Inaugural Address and a
booklet on his State of the Union mes
sage (235647).

Connor, L. R. (See Hill Acme Co.)

Conover, Dr. Robert J. (See Woods
Hole Oceanographic Institution)

Conrad, Lyle, McLean, Va.: 2 bats
from Virginia and West Virginia
(233883).

Continental Screw Co., New Bedford,
Mass.: (Through F. K. Brown) Asa
Cook thread shaving and chasing ma-
chines (235978).

Convers, Mrs. Olivia, Valle de Bravo,
Mexico: 8 ferns from Mexico (231043).

Cooper, Dr. Edwin L. (See Cheng,
Dr. Tien-Hsi)

Cooper, Dr. and Mrs. G. Arthur,
Washington, D.C.: 1,000 invertebrate
fossils from the Middle Devonian of
Michigan and Ontario collected by do-
nors (233034).

Cooper, S. L., Washington, D.C.: 3
serap books containing ballots and clip-
pings of the late 19th century and a
volume “The Christian Minister’s Af-
fectionate Advice to a Married Couple,”
by Rey. James Bean (235646).

Copenhagen, University of, Copen-
hagen, Denmark: 52 phanerogams, 14
grasses, and 2 ferns from Greenland
(234803, exchange).

Corcoran, Mrs. William J., Washing-
ton, D.C.: Fruit compote from the
state china used during the administra-
tion of President James K. Polk
(235648).

Cordes, Richard, White Plains, N.Y.:
U.S. Army canteen cup, ca. 1898
(233991).

Corey, Bruce (See National Highway
Post Office Society)

129

Corkum, Kenneth C., Baton Rouge,
La.: Holotype of trematode worm
(232980).

Cornell University, Ithaca, N.Y.:
(Through Bruce B. Collette and Dr.
Royal D. Suttkus) blind catfish from
near San Antonio, Tex. (233289, ex-
change) ; (through Dr. William Hrick-
son) Westinghouse generator alterna-
tor (231780); (through Prof. M. L.
Nichols) 17 items of chemical appara-
tus and a hydraulic press (231262).
Bailey Hortorium: 230 phanerogams
and 527 photographs of phanerogams,
types, from the Philip Miller Herbar-
ium (2381037, 236104, 236106, ex-
changes) ; 46 cryptogams from Arno
Atoll (2383545) ; 22 phanerogams and
1 fern from Peru and Mexico (234513,
gift-exchange) ; (through Dr. Harold
E. Moore, Jr.) 15 phanerogams (229195,
231088, gift-exchange).

Corny Institute Museum, Leningrad,
U.S.S.R.: (Through Dr. V. D. Kolo-
mensky) 341-gram mass of the Ochansk
meteorite (2383956, exchange).

Corothie, Dr. Harry (See Universi-
dad de los Andes)

Corwin, C. D., Jr. (See Olifton
Springs Sanitarium and Clinic)

Costa, John, Chicago, Ill.: Completed
shell of a thin-wall Geiger-Mueller
counter used in Fermi’s first reactor and
a similar shell slit longitudinally for ex-
amination (235634).

Courtais, Henri G., New York, N.Y.:
Italian pottery vase made at Ginori
factory, Doccia, early 19th century
(283835).

Cowan, Dr. Clyde L., Jr., Bethesda,
Md.: Reproduction of first oscilloscope
traces showing first observation of
Neutrino (282882).

Cox, Mrs. Gladys M., Reno, Nev. : Silk
on linen sampler made by Hannah Hall,
1803 (233422).

Craighead, Frank C., Homestead,
Fla.: Fern from Florida (234160).

Cramer, Mrs. P. B., Highland Park,
Mich.: 18 precanceled stamps (233694).

Craven, Capt. John C. (See Defense,
U.S. Department of)
130

Creighton, Dr. W. S., Rockport, On-
tario, Canada: 36 ants from Ohio
(232023).

Crile, Dr. and Mrs. George A., Jr.,
Cleveland, Ohio: 12 items from wreck
site on Sombrero Reef, 1952 (231948) ;
83 objects from wreck of H.M.S. Looe,
1744 (231947).

Crocker, Mrs. Lispenard Seabury,
Kittery Point, Maine: 551 historical and
ethnological objects collected by donor
(232559).

Crocker, Nellie, Washington, D.C.:
Swiss watch (234471).

Cron, F. W., Washington, D.C.:
Lighter, box of flints, and a box of razor
blades (231078).

Crooks, William D. (See Eli Lilly and
Co.)

Cross, Dr. Aureal T. (See Pan Amer-
ican Petroleum Corp.)

Cross, W. W., & Co. See W. W. Cross
& Co.)

Crossley, Dr. D. A. (See Atyeo, Dr.
Warren T.)

Croston, John, Silver Spring, Md.:
Realgar on colemanite from Turkey
and kyanite from India (231028); 3
minerals from Bolivia and Tennessee
(235454).

Crow, Lady, Washington, D.C. ;: 2 par-
asols of the 19th century (230806).

Crown Agents, Washington, D.C.:
(Through A. J. E. Davis) 218 mint
postage stamps of various governments
of the British Commonwealth (233692,
233728).

Cruxent, Prof. J. M. (See Museo de
Ciencias Naturales)

Cuatrecasas, Dr. José, Washington,
D.C.: 191 phanerogams from Brazil,
Colombia, and Peru (282118, 234073,
235624).

Cunard Steam-Ship Co., Ltd., New
York, N.Y.: (Through James C. Mur-
ray) scale model of M.V. Britannic

U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM

(2343882).
Cureton, F., II, Stockton, Calif.: 18
minerals from _ various localities

(231916, 234683, exchanges).
Currie, Richard R., Johannesburg, 8.
Africa : 35 crustaceans (232665).
Curry, L. A. (See Mullard Limited)

ANNUAL REPORT, 1961

Curtice, Kolbe, Herndon, Va.: 113
philatelie and numismatie items, a set
of ivory-handled amputation instru-
ments, 8 patents and matriculation
tickets, and an original Naval Order of
1842 (231836).

Curtis, Karl, Gamboa, Canal Zone:
(Through Dr. Alexander Wetmore) 3
pieces of Araucanian jewelry and a
photograph (236018).

Cushman, Mrs. Helene, Washington,
D.C.: Bird (230997).

Custis, Eleanor, Washington, D.C.:
13 items of costume of the early 20th
century and a shawl of the mid-19th
century (230606).

Cutter, Albert R., Encinitas, Calif. :
Brilliant cut topaz, citrine briolette, and
citrine (231161, 231899, 233677).

Dake, Dr. H. C., Portland, Oreg.: Tek-
tite from Thailand (233268).

Dalager, Clarice, Alamo, Tex.: Cryp-
togam (229925).

Dalmat, Dr. Herbert (See Health, Ed-
ucation, and Welfare, U.S. Department
of )

Damman, A. W. H.
Government of)

Danish Postal and Telegraph Mu-
seum, Copenhagen, Denmark: (Through
J. M. 8. Anderson) Poulsen Are wire-
less telegraph (227374).

Darcey Specialties Co., Inc., Los An-
geles, Calif.: (Through Ralph EH.
Becker) 5 pieces of jewelry from the
Republican 1960 campaign (236128).

Darling, Thomas, Washington, D.C.:
70 ferns from Florida, Pennsylvania,
and New York (231044, 233087).

da Silva, Dr. Oswaldo J. (See Pan
American Health Organization)

David, Claude, Leipsic, Ohio: Buick
gasoline engine, 1902 (236000).

Davidson, Edward, Arlington, Tex.:
14 fossil crabs from the Cretaceous of
Texas (233978, exchange); 3 inverte-
brate fossils from the Pennsylvanian

(See Canada,

and Lower Cretaceous of Texas
(285462).
Davidson, Paul W. (See Defense

U.S. Department of)
Davies, David S. (See Trenton, City
of)
DONORS TO THE NATIONAL COLLECTIONS

Davies, Douglas M., Hamilton, On-
tario, Canada: 270 flies, including para-
types, from Canada (2382108, 2385019).

Davis, Mrs. A. E., Scranton, Pa.: Red
Cross Nurse’s Aid uniform worn by
donor during 1918 (231483).

Davis, A. J. E. (See Crown Agents)

Davis, Mrs. Brooks, Tucson, Ariz.: 2
cerussites from Flux Mine, Santa Cruz
Co., Ariz. (232592, exchange).

Davis, Douglas K., Falls Church, Va.:
1960-D penny (230867).

Davis, E. Hollister
Steward G.)

Davis, Mrs. Edna, Washington, D.C.:
Working model of a Harding election
campaign souvenir, 10 tools and dies for
making figures in metal, 3 unassembled
metal parts, and examples of finished
figures mounted on cards, 1920
(235387) .

Davis, Everette R., Alexandria, Va.:
6 domestic hen eggs (green shell color)
(230996).

Davis, Mrs. Hugh N., Jr. (See Virgin
Islands Museum, Inc.)

Davis, Steward G. and E. Hollister,
Washington, D.C.: Flag from staff of
“Nellie Powell,’ flagship of the Major
Powell Expedition through Colorado
Canyon, 1872-74 (283559).

Dawson, Dr. C. E., Ocean Springs,
Miss.: 12 plankton specimens and 2
fishes from the Persian Gulf (231170,
231237). (See also Gulf Coast Research
Laboratory )

Dawson, Dr. E. Yale (See Beaudette
Foundation for Biological Research)

Dawson, James C., Kirkwood, Mo.: 4
nickeliferous deweylite specimens from
St. Louis Co., Mo. (231089).

Dawson, Dr. K. R. (See Canada, Goy-
ernment of)

Daystrom, Ine, Newark, N.J.:
(Through Edward L. Klein) 32 early
measuring instruments (235391).

Dean, Joseph, Daytona Beach, Fla.:
Watch movement (232975).

De Bach, Dr. Paul, Riverside, Calif.:
140 chalcid flies, cotypes, from the Re-
public of Israel (235824).

Decker, Mrs. Jane McL., New Haven,
Conn.: 60 microscope slides of wood
(236109).

(See Davis,

131

Defense, U.S. Department of: De-
partment of the Air Force: (Through
William L. Witt) mud shrimp (232351).
Department of the Army: (Through
Capt. John C. Craven) 3 projectiles,
anti-tank rifle grenade, hand grenade,
practice rocket, cartridge, and anti-
personnel mine (235563); (through
Paul W. Davidson) philatelic cover car-
ried by V—2 rocket, Feb. 1949 (233486) ;
(through Dr. John J. Pratt, Jr.) 2 cope-
pods (235270). Army Medical Research
Unit: (Through Lt. Col. Hinton J.
Baker) 29 snakes from Malaya
(231093) ; (through Dr. H. Elliott Mc-
Clure) 650 mosquitoes from Malaya
(235818). Medical Research and De-
velopment Command: (Through Col.
Robert Traub) 121 mammals from
South Viet Nam collected by the U.S.
Army Medical Research Unit (233129).
Ofice of the Surgeon General:
(Through Capt. Vernon J. Tipton) 100
mammals from Panama (231166).
Department of the Navy: 194 phanero-

gams, 3 grasses, and 6 ferns from
Formosa and 116 reptiles (232116) ;
inert Schenkl projectile (2385560) ;

(through Lt. Larry Shumacher) bathy-
scaphe “Trieste” power distribution
board and water sample (235570).
Marine Corps: (Through Harold John-
son) 22 firearms and accessories
(235947). National Naval Medical
Center: (Through Rear Adm. Frank P.
Kreuz) Van de Graaff generator
(232962). Naval Medical Research
Units: (Through Dr. Harry Hoogstraal)
3 ticks, including holotype, allotype, and
paratype, from Jordan (234148) ;
(through Dr. Robert EH. Kuntz) 1,750
marine, fresh-water, and land mollusks,
21 crustaceans, 1,398 mammals, 1,599
birds, medusa, insects, reptiles, and
fishes from various localities (225406,
233139, 233162, 235786) ; 57 phanero-

gams and 3 grasses from Egypt
(204698); (through Dr. Robert H.
Kuntz and Lt. Comdr. William H.

Wells) 453 fresh-water fishes from
Taiwan, also 6 crustaceans (232666).
Office of Naval Research: (Through
Charles R. Southwell) 185 wood speci-
132

U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1961

mens mostly from Panama (232058). | 12 undetermined centipedes, millipedes,

(See also Bishop Museum, Bernice P.)

DeFoliart, Dr. G. R., Madison, Wis. :
2 flies, allotype and paratype, from
Wyoming (232036).

Degener, Dr. Otto, Waialua, Oahu,
Hawaii: 75 phanerogams, 10 grasses, 9
ferns and 1 cryptogam from Guatemala,
Mexico, the Pacific Islands, and western
United States (232959, 235626).

De Gurse, John (See Smithsonian
Institution)

de Hulster, Ir. I. A.
Service)

Deignan, Herbert G., Washington,
D.C.: Bird (234324).

de Jesus, Dr. Pablo I. (See Tupaz,
Jose)

Delaney, Mrs. L. E. (See Richards,
Mrs. Sarah Trone)

Delano, William Adams, Estate of:
(Through Josephine B. Manning)
papers and correspondence pertaining
to William Adams Delano’s activities,
as consulting architect, on renovation of
the White House, 1949-52 (235261).

de la Torre, Dr. Salvador L. (See Uni-
versidad de Oriente)

Del Noce, Aldo, New York, N.Y.:
25% of a block of four 2-cent “Lake
Shade” Panama Pacific Exposition Is-
sue, 1918 (Scott No. 398) (234470).

Demaree, Delzie, Hot Springs, Ark.:
556 cryptogams collected by donor
(235221).

de Mattos, Prof. Ayrton (See Insti-
tuto de Historia Natural)

Dentan, R. (See American Rolex
Watch Corp.)

Deoras, Dr. P. J.
Institute)

De Santis, Dr. Luis, La Plata, Argen-
tina: Chalcid fly from Argentina
(231699) ; 3 chalcid flies from Argen-
tina (234017, exchange).

Desautels, Paul E., Washington, D.C.:
3 minerals from various localities
(233944).

Dexter, Ralph W., Gloucester, Mass. :
Stink bug, 3 leafhoppers, and 1 beetle
larva (232680).

de Zayas, Ing. Fernando, Havana,
Cuba: Holotype and allotype of 2 new
species of insects from Cuba (234365) ;

(See Forest

(See Haffkine

and spiders from Cuba (235024).

Diakonoff, Dr. A. (See Rijksmuseum
van Natuurlijke Historie)

Dickey, Mrs. Rose M., Washington,
D.C.: Dress and apron, bridal costume
of Russian peasant of old regime
(230684).

Dickinson, Mrs. John A., Bethesda,
Md.: 2 tack pullers, corkscrew, and an
anvil (282224).

Dieke, Dr. G. H. (See Johns Hopkins
University )

Dietrich, Prof. R. V., Blacksburg,
Va.: 4 calciostrontianites and 2 paly-
gorskites from Virginia (231022).

Dill, Capt. Andrew J., Jr., Milford,
Del.: Guinea balance of the late 18th
century (233078).

District of Columbia, Government of:
(Through John B. Layton) 4 items used
in the 1961 Inauguration (235058) ;
(through Dr. A. Magruder MacDonald)
11 crania of American Negroes from an
old cemetery, Washington, D.C.,
(232745).

Doane, Edith R., East Orange, N.J.:
29 articles for Rural Free Delivery
Exhibit (234182).

Dobrotworsky, Dr. N. V., Victoria,
Australia: 11 mosquitoes, including
paratypes and associated larval and
pupal exuviae, from Australia (230635).

Doby, Dr. J. M. (See Faculte Mixte
de Medecine et de Pharmacie)

Dockstader, Frederick J. (See Ossin-
ing Public Schools)

Doering, Walter H. M., Sao Vincente,
Brazil: Phanerogam (231548).

Doerr, Herbert, Philadelphia, Pa.:
Dorient rug of about 1920 (231415).

Domrow, Dr. R., Brisbane, Australia:
14 slides of parasitic mites, paratypes,
from Australia (234401). (See also
Queensland Institute of Medical Re-
search)

Don Marshall Co., Beverly Hills,
Calif.: (Through Ralph HB. Becker) 4
felt-decorated hairnets from the 1960
presidential campaign (236134).

Donaho, Rear Adm. and Mrs. Glynn
R., Alexandria, Va.: 82 corals and 2
mollusks from Cebu and Luzon, Philip-
pines (2383827).
DONORS TO THE NATIONAL COLLECTIONS

Donohue, Mr. and Mrs. A. J., Arling-
ton, Va.: Hnvelope addressed to Sir
Winston Churchill, envelope carried on
Operation Deepfreeze 1957, and an en-
velope carried aboard the U.S.S. Sea-

dragon on her polar transit, 1960
(234042).

Dorf, Dr. Erling (See Princeton
University )

Douglas, B. M., Washington, D.C.: 2
rare obsolete notes issued in 1840 by The
Chesapeake and Ohio Canal Co.
(283049).

Dove Marine Laboratory, Cullercoats,
Northumberland, England: (Through
Dr. J. A. Allen) mollusk from off North-
umberland, England (233911).

Downes, Dr. J. A., Ottawa, Canada:
14 midges (231006).

Drake, Dr. Carl J., Washington, D.C. :
66 miscellaneous beetles from the U.S.
(238529) ; 80 miscellaneous foreign coy-
ers bearing postage stamps and meter
impressions (234179, 236149).

Draper, Mrs. Irene E. (See Alsaker,
Dr. R. L., Estate of)

Dreisbach, R. R., Midland, Mich.: 11
spider wasps, including allotype, para-
type, and 9 holotypes, from North and
South America (234608).

Dreyer, Mrs. Edith A., Albion, Mich. :
2 model French sabre bayonets and
scabbards, 1866, and 2 State of Michi-
gan medals for the War with Spain and
Philippine campaign, 1898-1900
(281282).

Drouet, Dr. Francis (See Arizona,
University of)

Drugg, Dr. Warren S. (See Carlquist,
Dr. Sherwin)

Ducommun, J. C. (See Standard Oil
Co.)

Dugand, Dr. Armando, Barranquilla,
Colombia: 49 phanerogams and 10
grasses from Colombia (232804). (See
also Instituto de Ciencias Naturales)

Duncan, Mrs. Evelyn Alexander,
Fairfax, Va.: Double-woven geometric
coverlet (2383295).

Duncan, Scott, Rockville, Md.: Sea
anemone (235282).

Dunn, Mrs. Arthur Wallace, Wash-
ington, D.C.: Naval officer’s dress
sword, scabbard, and sword knot

133

(231942) ; 10 accessories of costume of
the late 19th and early 20th centuries
(230604).

Dunn, V. Roger, Gulfport, Fla.: 14
marine mollusks from Queensland,
Australia (234764).

du Pont, Willis H., Wilmington, Del.:
920 Russian coins and medals of
Catherine I, Peter II, and Anne
(228217).

Durand, Mr. and Mrs. Paul, Los
Angeles, Calif.: 2 apatites from Brazil
and Madagascar (236020).

Durgan, Henry, East Machias, Maine:
Model of horizontal slide valve steam
engine of the 19th century (234644).

Durham, Dr. J. Wyatt (See Cali-
fornia, University of)

Durr, Mrs. George, Norwich, Conn.:
Ives clock (231058).

Dutton, R. (See Minerva Oil Co.)

Dyer, Arthur J., Observatory (See
Arthur J. Dyer Observatory )

Eads, Dr. Richard B. (See Health,
Education, and Welfare, U.S. Depart-
ment of ; also Interior, U.S. Department
of the)

Eastham, Frank D., Warsaw, Va.:
Fossil crab from the Miocene of Vir-
ginia (233929).

Easton, Prof. A. H.
University of)

Ebeling, Alfred W.
University of)

Echevarria, José E., Aguadilla, Puerto
Rico: Block model of a Puerto Rican
fishing sloop (236162).

Eclat Club, The, New York, N.Y.:
(Through Dr. Fordyce B. St. John)
silver cup (222321); (through Dr.
Harvey Brinton Stone) allegorical
painting associated with medical events
and individuals (232427).

Edelstein, Dr. Sidney, New York,
N.Y.: Analytical balance used by Wal-
cott Gibbs (236092).

Edwards, E. H., Scranton, Pa.: Jigger
bar (235031).

Edwin, Dr. Gabriel. (See Agricul-
ture, U.S. Department of)

E. E. Souther Co., St. Louis, Mo.:
(Through F. L. Ashworth) double
seamer, beader, and a setter (235971).

(See Wisconsin,

(See California,
134

Eggler, Dr. Willis A.
University )

Ehrmann, Martin L., Beverly Hills,
Calif.: 60 pounds of gem gravels and
amber carving from Burma (234998,

(See Tulane

235457). (See also Martin L. Hhrmann
Co.)

Eichelser, Marie C. (See Flexner,
Abraham)

Eichner, L. C., Clifton, N.J.: Ball
bearing (232222).

Einhorn, Nathan R. (See Library of
Congress)

Eisenhower, Dwight D., Washington,
D.C. and Gettysburg, Pa.: Gold medal
from Chile, gold medal and antique
silver lamp from Brazil, 3 commemora-
tive medals and a bronze replica of
statue of Gaucho from Uruguay (230-
340) ; model of Bucyrus-Hrie stripping
shovel (231557); carved wooden ele-
phant presented to President Hisen-
hower by His Majesty Bhumibol
Adubjadig of Thailand (232805) ; twin
microphones used by President Wisen-
hower on his campaign tour Sept. 4
Noy. 4, 1952, and reading copy of his
State of the Union message, delivered
Jan. 7, 1960 (2339138) ; 49-star U.S. Na-
tional flag and Presidential standard
(234125).

Eisenhower, Mrs. Dwight D., Gettys-
burg, Pa.: Dress, 2 pieces of jewelry,
and purse used by Mrs. John Sheldon
Doud at 1953 inaugural ball; photo-
graph of Mrs. Doud; also pink organdy
dress presented to Mrs. Hisenhower by
the wife of the President of the Philip-
pines, June 1958 (234630).

Eisentraut, Prof. Dr. M.
logisches Forschungsinstitut)

Eisner, Dr. Curt, The Hague, Nether-
lands: 8 butterflies from Japan and
Korea (235841).

El-Chichini, Saad. (See United Arab
Republic, Government of)

Eldred, Mrs. Bonnie. (See Florida
State Board of Conservation)

Elegant Button and Novelty, Ince.,
Yonkers, N.Y.: (Through Ralph EH.
Becker) 2 “Lucky Coin” key chains
from the presidential campaign of 1960
(233454).

(See Zoo-

U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1961

Elgert, Gerald, Baltimore, Md.:
(Through Dr. Clyde Reed) cooter turtle
from Big Gunpowder Falls, Baltimore
Co., Md., collected by donor (234094).

Eli Lilly and Co., Indianapolis, Ind.:
(Through William D. Crooks) 5 phar-
maceutical and medical items and 3 re-
lated Lilly publications, 1887-93
(283571).

Elliott, L. P., Peoria, Ill.: 290 Peoria,
Ill, precanceled postage stamps
(234637).

Emory University, Atlanta, Ga.:
(Through Dr. W. D. Burbanck) 86 ma-
rine invertebrates (231603, 283730).

Entomological Research Center, Vero
Beach, Fla.: (Through Nina Branch)
10 mosquitoes, including allotypes, holo-
types, and paratypes, from Bahama Is-
lands along with 17 associated slides
(235888).

Entomological Research Institute,
Ottawa, Ontario, Canada: (Through
Hdward C. Becker) 2 click beetles from
North America (282022, exchange).

Erdtman, Prof. G. (See Palynological
Laboratory )

Erickson, Dr. William (See Cornell
University )

Ernest Scott and Co., Inc., Fall River,
Mass.: (Through R. A. Hentershee) 2
countershafts (234025).

Erskine, Lillian, Chautauqua, N.Y.:
Indian beaded necklace from Stock-
bridge, Mass. (235912).

Esso Standard (See M. W. Kellogg
Co.)

Kstacién Experimental Agrondémica,
Santiago de las Vegas, Cuba: (Through
Ing. Julidn Acufia) 22 phanerogams
from Cuba (231716).

Estacion Nacional de Entomologia,
La Cruz, Chile: (Through Sergio Rojas
Poblete) 6 beetles from Chile (222749).

Evans, Dr. and Mrs. Clifford, Jr.,
Washington, D.C.: Gas lighting fixture,
2 hand turned flower pots and a cast
flower pot (235048).

Evans, Dr. Howard E., Cambridge,
Mass.: 247 wasps from Central and
North America (232581, 2383283,
234953).
DONORS TO THE NATIONAL COLLECTIONS

Evans, John C., Arlington, Va.: 60
airmail covers and maps (232978).

Evans, Mrs. M. E., Arlington, Va.:
silk airmail flag, 1925 (232972).

Everett, W. W., Alden, Pa.: Davy
safety lamp (234626).

Everhart, Dr. W. Harry (See Maine,
University of)

Ever-Ready Lace and Textile Co.,
Jersey City, N.J.: (Through Ralph H.
Becker) 4 Democratic and 4 Republican
cloth emblems from the 1960 elections
(235931).

Experiment Station of the Hawaiian
Sugar Planters’ Assoc., Honolulu, Ha-
waii: (Through John W. Beardsley) 14
small moths from Hawaii (235815).

Faculdade da Farmacia, Curitiba, Pa-
rand, Brazil: 187 phanerogams, 1 grass,
and 9 ferns from Brazil (233925).

Faculte Mixte de Medecine et de
Pharmacie, Rennes, France: (Through
Dr. J. M. Doby) 33 black flies from
France (234859, exchange).

Fain, Dr. A. Anvers, Belgium: 14
slides of parasitic mites from Africa
(235816).

Faircloth, Wayne, Whigham, Ga.:
Fern from Georgia (281522).

Falck, J. Stanley, Chevy Chase, Md.:
6 pharmaceutical items most of which
were used by donor’s father in the 1890’s
(232068).

Falla, Dr. R. A. (See Atyeo, Dr. War-
ren T.)

Fannin, Oliver W., Jr. (See Renfro,
Mrs. Ruby F., Estate of)

Fantel, Robert, Great Neck, N.Y.;
“Nixon for President” campaign badge
manufactured by donor’s firm (235047).

Fargo, William G. (See Locklin,
Charles R.)

Farrell, Dr. Charles E., Nashville,
Tenn.: 37 mites, including 10 holotypes
and accompanying slides, from eastern
U.S. (282021).

Feeney, Walter B., Irvington, N.J.:
26 miscellaneous philatelic covers and
memorabilia (234187).

Feinstein, Bernard R., and Lange,
Kenneth I., Washington, D.C.: 70 mam-
mals and 3 birds from Maryland and
Virginia (236048).

135

Fellows, Dr. F. F., West Linn, Oreg.:
54 items of Eskimo materials collected
by donor, 1908 (231572).

Fellows Gear Shaper Co., Springfield,
Vt.: (Through H. W. Miller) Fellows
gear shaper no. 6 (234649).

Fennell, Chester M., San Francisco,
Calif.: 3 birds (234325).

Ferreyra, Dr. Ramén (See Museo de
Historia Natural “Javier Prado’’)

Fewster, Mrs. Doris M., Providence,
R.I.: Cover issued at ‘“Stampex,” Lon-
don, 1959, authographed by Britain’s
Stamp Queen (232754).

Fields, Mrs. Lenore Straus, Straus,
Edith Gutman, and Straus, Ada Gut-
man, Baltimore, Md.; Layette and 2
baby chemises (233475).

Fiji Islands, Government of: Geologi-
cal Survey Department: (Through Dr.
R. H. Houtz) 4 casts of brachiopod from
the Tertiary of Fiji (231012).

Filatova, Dr. Z. A. (See Academy of
Sciences of the U.S.S.R.)

Finks, Dr. Robert W., Brooklyn, N.Y.:
4 unidentified Bryozoans from High-
land Mills, and 7 invertebrate fossils
from Hsopus formation, Highland Mills,
ING en (2850110)

Finley, James, Beltsville, Md.: ca-
cheted cover commemorating the 100th
anniversary of the commissioning of
A. Lincoln, Postmaster, New Salem, II1.,
1933 (234191).

Fireman, Dr. Edward L., Cambridge,
Mass.: Aluminum oxide crucible
(2356388).

Fischer, Dr. Alfred G., Princeton,
N.J.; 200 brachiopods from the Permian
of Wyoming (2338816).

Fischer, Dr. Max (See Naturhistor-
isches Museum)

Fiscus, Clifford H. (See Interior, U.S.
Department of the)

Fisher, C. C. (See Ford, John W.)

Fisher, Dr. D. J. (See Kashkai, Prof.
Mir-Ali)

Fisher, Dr. James, Houghton, Mich.:
X-ray tube and 3 photographic plates
(232897).

Fitzgerald, James H. (See Pharma-
ceuticals, Inc.)
136

Fitzgerald, Warren (address un-
known): Fish from Lee County, Va.
(283524).

Fitzmaurice, John, Washington, D.C. ;
4 pyrrhotites from Rockville, Md.
(235455, exchange).

Fleetwood, Raymond J. (See Interior,
U.S. Department of the)

Fleming, Richard Bland Lee, Chil-
dren of, Fauquier Co., Va.: (Through
Roberta Fleming) Masonic uniform
(232045).

Fleming, Roberta (See Fleming, Rich-
ard Bland Lee, Children of)

Fleminger, Dr. Abraham (See Scripps
Institution of Oceanography)

Flexner, Abraham (deceased) :
(Through Marie C. Hichelser) personal
memorabilia of Abraham Flexner
(236094, bequest).

Flint, Dr. Oliver, Washington, D.C.:
1,096 miscellaneous insects from the
U.S. and 183 Arachnida, Diplopoda, and
Chilopoda from the U.S. and Mexico
(235892); 5 insects from Texas
(234607) ; 500 caddisflies and stone-
flies from New York and Virginia and
3 ground beetles from Texas (235804) ;
8 caddisflies, including holotypes, allo-
types, and paratypes, from North Caro-
lina and Tennessee (285836).

Florence, University of, Florence,
Italy: (Through Dr. Benedetto Lanza)
31 salamanders, including paratype,
from Italy (2338748, exchange) ;
(through Dr. Alberto Simonetta) 15
skeletons of European birds (2383810,
exchange).

Florida, State Plant Board of, Gaines-
ville, Fla.;: (Through Dr. Howard V.
Weems, Jr.) 100 millipedes from Costa
Rica (235801).

Florida, University of, Gainesville,
Fla.: Phanerogam and 2 grasses
(231550, 2383048, 235620); (through
BE. A. Joyce, Jr.) 6 hydroids (234554).

Florida State Board of Conservation,
St. Petersburg, Fla.: (Through Mrs.
Bonnie Widred) 10 shrimps (2382140,
232164); (through Andrew J. McEr-
lean) pectoral fin of a fish (235589) ;
(through Dr. Victor G. Springer) 25
gorgonians and 5 fishes (232484,
233787).

U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM

ANNUAL REPORT, 1961

Florida State Board of Health, Vero
Beach, Fla.: (Through Mrs. Eleanor
S. Harrington) 2 brackish-water snails
from Florida (235102).

Florida State University, Tallahas-
see, Fla.: 75 phanerogams, 2 grasses,
and 4 ferns (234802, exchange) ;
(through Thomas L. Hopkins) 355
copepods (232277) ; (through Charles EH.
King), 6 tanaids, including holotypes
and paratypes, from Florida (235352).

Folinsbee, Dr. R. E. (See Alberta,
University of)

Follett, W. I. (See California Acad-
emy of Sciences)

Foote, B. A., Moscow, Idaho: 19 fresh-
water snails from Idaho (230624).

Ford, E. J. (See Agriculture, U.S. De-
partment of)

Ford, Everett W., Fairbanks, Alaska:
Mammoth tooth from Goldstream Creek,
near Fairbanks, Pleistocene of Alaska
(284566).

Ford, John W., Youngstown, Ohio:
(Through C. C. Fisher) 22,116 Ohio Lo-
cal precancel stamps (233770).

Ford, Reuben, Washington, D.C.:
Souvenir pocket watch from campaign
of Theodore Roosevelt and William Me-
Kinley of 1900 (2381225).

Ford, William. (See Hoggson and
Pettis Co.)

Forest Biology Laboratory, Vernon,
B.C., Canada: (Through Dr. S. F.
Condrashoff) 20 gall midges from
Canada (2384014).

Forest Research Institute, Kepong,
Selangor, Malaya: (Through P. K.
Balan Menon) 966 microscope slides of
Malayan woods (234622, exchange).

Forest Research Institute, Pretoria,
Union of South Africa: (Through Dr.
J. H. van Wyk) 72 woods (2385680,
exchange).

Forest Research Station, Ilanoth,

Nathanya, Israel: (Through Martin
Chudnoff) 62 woods (2338762, ex-
change).

Forest Service, Paramaribo, Suri-
name: (Through Ir. I. A. de Hulster)
27 wood samples (233681, exchange).

Forgy, Fred, Oakland, Calif.: Token
commemorating the life of Martin Van
Buren (231519).
DONORS TO THE NATIONAL COLLECTIONS

Fosberg, Dr. F.R. (See Interior, U.S.
Department of the)

Fox, Carl! L., Jr., Atlanta, Ga. : Miscel-
laneous phosphates from Indian Moun-
tain, Ala. (233452).

Frandsen, Dr. John C., Grantsville,
Utah: Holotype and allotype of a nema-
tode worm from Utah (230872).

Franklin and Marshall College, Lan-
easter, Pa.: (Through Prof. R. I.
Weller) Melloni thermopile and 5
wooden apparatus stands (233467).

Frazier, Arthur H. (See Interior,
U.S. Department of the)

Frazier, Henry B., III (See Goodwin,
Andrew )

Fredrich, Leon A., Portland, Oreg.:
Squirrel and skeleton of an albatross
(235783).

Freeman, H. Avery, Garland, Tex.: 2
paratypes of butterflies from Mexico
(235893).

Freude, Dr. H. (See Zoologische
Sammlung des Bayerischen Staates)

Fricke, Charles A., Philadelphia, Pa.:
Specialized study of the first postal card
of the U.S., 1873-75, consisting of 23
postal cards and 17 copyrighted pages
of historical and _ philatelic data
(234192).

Friedberg, Robert, New York, N.Y.:
Obsolete bank bill, issued by the War-
wick, Rhode Island, bank, 1857, bearing
an overprint “Broken Bank” (231490).

Friedersdorff, Mrs. C. C., Jr., High-
land Falls, N.Y.: Sioux feathered head-
dress in memory of donor’s father, Eg-
bert J. Armstrong (234979).

Frest, Robert, Cambridge, Mass.:
Copy of Robert Frost’s poem “The Gift
Outright,” written out for the inaugura-
tion of President John F. Kennedy and
inscribed to the Smithsonian Institu-
tion (234213).

Frost, Dr. S. W., University Park,
Pa.: 8 scarab beetles from Florida
(232031). (See also Pennsylvania
State University)

Frymire, Prof. Grady P., Guayaquil,
Ecuador: 318 miscellaneous insects and
arachnids and 8 reptiles from Ecuador
(229314, 231214, 232024, 233145).

609091,_61——_10

137

Fryxell, Roald. (See Ginkgo Petri-
fied Forest Museum)

Fukuda, Dr. Akira, Hachinohe,
Aomori Pref., Japan: 6 beetles from
Japan (231927, exchange).

Fuller, Robert S., Grand Cayman,
B.W.I.: 2 land snails from Grand Cay-
man Islands (230778).

Furlong, Rear Adm. W. R., Wash-
ington, D.C.: Japanese submarine tor-
pedo gyroscope and silver service from
U.S.S. Oklahoma (234065).

Furnish, Dr. W. M. (See Miller, Dr.
Arthur K.; and Iowa, State University
of)

G. E. Prentice Mfg. Co., Kensington,
Conn.: (Through Prentice Troup) col-
lection of dies for production of buckles
and a group of slide fasteners (235975).

Gabrielson, Dr. Olaf (See Naturhisto-
riska Riksmuseet)

Gale, Dr. William V., San Clemente,
Calif. ; Cannon ball associated with Gen.
Sullivan’s Indian campaign of 1779
(234463).

Galena Historical Society, Galena,
Ill.: Dress of the period 1858 (233876).

Galindo, Dr. Pedro, Panama, Republic
of Panama: 4 holotypes, 1 allotype, and
6 paratypes of mosquitoes from Panama
(234146).

Gallardo, Dr. Ariel (See Seripps In-
stitution of Oceanography.)

Game and Fish Commission, Rock-
port, Tex.: (Through Henry Compton)
2 stomatopods (235312).

Game and Fish Commission of Texas,
Seabrook, Tex.: (Through Dr. Jon K.
Shidler) 9 pelecypod mollusks from
San Antonio Bay, Calhoun Co., Tex.
(233106).

Garber, Paul E., Washington, D.C.:
Photographie reproduction of an orig-
inal contemporary water color of the
U.S.S. Wyoming (232118).

Garratt, G. R. M. (See Science
Museum)

Garvan, Dr. Anthony N. B., Spring
House, Pa.: Iron column designed by
Louis Sullivan in the 1880’s (235644).

Garvan, Mrs. Francis P., New York,
N.Y.: 2 chests, 2 oil paintings by E. L.
138

Henry, and an oil painting by Thomas
Birch (233723).

Gasche, Dr. E. (See Naturhistorisches
Museum )

Gates, Dr. Burton N.
University)

Gates, Dr. G. E., Bangor, Maine: 10
earthworms (234673).

Geil, E. H., Arlington, Va.: Puma
skeleton from a West Virginia cave
(228536).

Geiss, J. (See Bern, University of)

General Electric Co., Cleveland, Ohio:
(Through Alston Rodgers) 2 fluorescent

(See Clark

lamps and a mercury-vapor lamp
(232822).
General Services Administration,

Washington, D.C.: 9 watches (231059,
236070) ; diamond, ruby, and sapphire
bracelet and ring; diamond ring; dia-
mond and platinum bracelet (231905,
233266, 235456); 142 miscellaneous
gems, watch, and 2 gold bands (235330) ;
diamond bracelet, 5 gold rings, stickpin,
man’s dental bridge, gold watch and
chain, and 8 miscellaneous old Chinese
coins (235380) ; earrings, bracelet, and
necklace, all of jade and diamonds in
white gold (235442).

Gentry, Joseph W., Tunis, Tunisia:
100 fruit fly adults from Tunisia
(235821).

Georgetown University, Washington,

C.: (Through Father Francis J. Hey-
den) 138 lithographs of astronomical
phenomena and bodies (231962).

Georgia, University of, Sapelo Island,
Ga.: (Through Dr. George H. Lauff)
9 acorn worms (235502) ; (through Dr.
John M. Teal) 52 marine invertebrates
(216505).

Gerber, Carl B., Arlington, Va.:
Quartz from Ozark-Mahoning Mine,
near Cave-in-Rock, Ill. (233821).

Géry, Dr. J. R. Briey, France:
(Through Dr. Herbert R. Axelrod) fish,
holotype from northeastern Brazil
(235028).

Gessner, Mr. and Mrs. Edward H.,
Washington, D.C.: Spanish leather
trunk of the 18th century (232951).

Gettysburg College, Gettysburg Pa.:
(Through Prof. Richard T. Mara) 4
pieces of physical apparatus (235480).

U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1961

Gilbert Clock Co., Winsted, Conn.:
(Through Charles Arnold) pinion turn-
ing machine (235980).

Gilbert, Dr. Perry W., Ithaca, N.Y.:
Shark’s tooth (232471).

Gill, Howard (See Northfield Knife
Co.)

Gill, Dr. Tom, Washington, D.C.: 28
woods of Ghana and 20 woods from
Taiwan, China (232877, 232881).

Gilmore, John G., Alexandria, Va.:
Korean packboard, basket, and stick-
cane (234981).

Ginkgo Petrified Forest Museum,
Vantage, Wash.: (Through Roald Fry-
xell) fossil wood from the Ginkgo Petri-
fied Forest State Park, Vantage, WERE
(234130).

Ginzton, E. L. (See Stanford Univer-
sity)

Giordano, Dr. G. (See Centro Nazion-
ale del Legno)

Gisin, Dr. Hermann (See Museunt
d’Histoire Naturelle)

Glass, Jewell, Washington, D.C.: Hel-
vite from Sweden (234601).

Gleason, Cedric, Washington, D.C.:
2. serpentines from Rockville, Md.
(231682).

Glover, Lt. Billy F., Fayetteville,
N.O.: Silver coin, 1652, from Germany
(231752).

Goetschises, Mrs. Isabel M., Bohemia,
L.I., N.Y.: 2 marine cable messages, ma-
rine cable galvanometer mirror, Indian
needle case, and 3 military insignia
(229311).

Goin, Dr. Coleman J. (See Tamsitt,
Prof. J. R.)

Goodbody, Dr. Ivan (See University
College of the West Indies)

Goodman, John B. (See American Oil
Co.)

Goodwin, Andrew, Dumfries, Va::
(Through Henry B. Frazier, III) coun-
terfeit stamp of Romania (232693).

Gordon, Mrs. Frances, Worcester,
Mass.: Cornet and case (232422).

Gordon, Henry L., Derby, Conn.:
Knitting machine of the late 19th cen-
tury (235955).

Gorgas Memorial Laboratory, Pan-
ama, Republic of Panama: 25 bird
skins from Panama (229945, 233224) ;
DONORS TO THE NATIONAL COLLECTIONS

(through Dr. Phyllis T. Johnson) 244
insects from Panamanian mammals
(234151, exchange) ; (through Eustor-
gio Mendez) 9 bird skins and holotype
and allotype of 2 fleas from Panama
(231700, 234020).

Gotthardt, Howard (See Otis Eleva-

tor Co.)
Gould, Dr. Douglas, Washington,
D.C.: 3,000 slides of chiggers from

North America (285832).

Grace Line Inc., New York, N.Y.:
(Through Frederic P. Sands) model
of passenger liner Santa Paula
(236164).

Graf, A. B., Rutherford, N.J.: Photo-
graph and 2 cultivated ferns (233429).

Graham, Dr. David Crockett, Engle-

wood, Colo.: 2 Chinese scrolls (229130).

Graham, Mrs. W. E., Madeira
Beach, Fla.: Quilted counterpane, 1836
(231271).

Grantham, Billy J. (See Mississippi
Game and Fish Commission)

Grau, Gilbert, Los Angeles, Calif.:
2 mollusks, paratypes, from California,
Guadalupe Islands, Mexico (232014,
exchange).

Gray, Milton B., Woods Hole, Mass.:
6 mud shrimps (234003) ; (through Dr.
George H. Lauff) 3 mud shrimps
(235129) ; (through Dr. Marian H. Pet-
tibone) 5 crustaceans (2382421).

Great Britain, Government of: Brit-
ish Museum (Natural History): 1385
Recent Foraminifera from British
localities; 330 phanerograms and 39
grasses (230945, 233041, exchanges) ;
(through Dr. M. H. Hey) legrandite,
type, from Flor de Pena Mine, Lam-
pazos, Nuevo Leon, Mexico (232178, ex-
change) ; (through Dr. L. B. Holthuis)
seyllarid lobster (232548) ; (through G.
J. Kerrich) 18 Hymenoptera, including
5 paratypes, from Australia, Java, and
the U.S. (209080, exchange) ; (through
Dr. Norman B. Marshall) fish, para-
type, from the John Murray Expedi-
tion (225409, exchange).

Greeley, Dr. John R. (See Hays, Dr.
Robert C.)

Green, H. O. (deceased) : 2 Atlantic
horned larks, types (235011).

609091—_61——_11

139

Greguss, Dr. Pal (See Institutum Bo-
tanicum Universitatis and Universita-
tis Szeged )

Gressitt, J. Linsley, Honolulu, Ha-
waii: 24 toad bugs from New Guinea
(280834) .

- Grice, Dr. George D., Jr. (See Woods
Hole Oceanographic Institution)

Griesbach, John, Wheaton, Md.: 4
minerals from Montgomery Co., Md.
(235453).

Griffin, Harold H., Arcadia, Calif.:
508 precanceled stamps (234639).

Griffiths, Dr. D. C., Newcastle-upon-
Tyne, England: 8 aphid parasites from
Hurope (233830).

Grimes, Ronald Mason, Lanham, Md.:
Surveyor’s transit (2385075).

Grimm, Frank W., Catonsville, Md.:
2 beetles and 15 larvae, 60 fresh-water
snails, 2 reptiles, 140 marine inverte-
brates, and 9 paratypes of two new
species of land snails (226078, 228739).

Grodhaus, Gail (See California De-
partment of Public Health)

Grogan Photo Co., Danville, Ill:
(Through Ralph H. Becker) 4 photo-
graphic campaign items used in the
1960 elections (235928).

Gross, Dr. G. F. (See South Austra-
lian Museum )

Guam Department of the Interior,
Agana, Guam: (Through Marcellus
Graeme Boss) 2 latte stones from Guam
(230787).

Gulf Coast Research Laboratory,
Grand Isle, La.: (Through Mr. C. EH.
Dawson) Callianassid (231203).

Gulick, Clarence M., Oakland, Calif. :
U.S. Marine Corps sergeant’s dress uni-
form of World War I and a Good Con-
duct Medal (233564).

Gulick, Mrs. J. Halsey, South Casco,
Maine: 9 precanceled stamps (234196).

Gunnell, E. Mitchell, Denver, Colo.:
2 minerals from Colorado (2381902, ex-
change).

Gurney, Dr. A. B., Washington, D.C.:
547 miscellaneous insects collected in
Pennsylvania, Maryland, Virginia, and
West Virginia, and 980 miscellaneous
insects from Puerto Rico (234019,
235802).
140

Gurry, John V. (See Orinoka Mills,
The)

Gutherz, Dr. Elmer J. (See Interior,
U.S. Department of the)

H-B Instrument Co., Philadelphia,
Pa.: (Through Val. Hiergesell) 3 deep-
sea thermometers (235074).

Habermehl, R. H. (See Treasury, U.S.
Department of the)

Hackman, Dr. Walter (See Museum
Zoologicum Universitatis)

Haderlie, Dr. E. C., Monterey, Calif. :
Cestode worm taken from a fish from
California (232768).

Haffkine Institute, Parel, Bombay,
India: (Through Dr. P. J. Deoras) 7
carpet vipers from Jamsande, Bombay,
India (231776).

Haiti, Government of, Port-au-Prince,
Haiti: (Through Agence Philatelique
Haitienne ) 74 mint postage stamps and
first day covers of Haiti (2383698,
236145).

Hake, Theodore R., York, Pa.: 3 star-
fishes from the Ordovician of Swatara
Gap, Pa. (235492).

Hale, Dr. H. M. (See South Australian
Museum)

Hall, Dr. E. Raymond (See Kansas,
University of)

Hambleton, E. J.. Washington, D.C.:
270 phanerogams, 87 grasses, and 11
ferns from Virginia (235615).

Hamelly, Henry, Grove City, Pa.: 57
first day covers of Canada, United Na-
tions, and the U.S. (233847, 236140).

Hamilton, Col. Charles S., Washing-
ton, D.C.: 700 mint postage stamps of
Mexico (234200).

Hamilton College, Clinton, N.Y.:
(Through Prof. G. H. Cameron) hand
electrostatic machine (234642).

Hamlin, William H., Oildale, Calif. : 2
holotypes and 2 paratypes of Foraminif-
era from the west coast of the U.S.
(231897).

Hanahan, Jack, Belmont, N.C.: Axi-
nite from North Carolina (232179) ;
raspite from Proprietary Mine, N.S.W.,
Australia (235408, exchange).

Hand, Dr. Cadet (See Portobello
Marine Biological Station)

U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1961

Handley, Dr. Charles O., Jr., Wash-
ington, D.C.: 27 small mammals from
Maryland and Virginia (236038).

Handley, Charles O., Sr., Charleston,
W. Va.: 4 mammals from Virginia and
West Virginia (236037).

Handy Hanky, Inc., Niagara Falls,
N.Y.: (Through Ralph E. Becker) 18
false-pocket handkerchiefs from the
1960 presidential campaign (235930).

Hane, Lt. Col. and Mrs. John R.,
Annandale, Va.: Kiushiu green pheas-
ant, mounted (231408).

Hanihara, Dr. Kazuro (See Sapporo
Medical College)

Hanzawa, Dr. Shodshird (See Tohoku
Imperial University)

Hardie, Robert (See Arthur J. Dyer
Observatory )

Hardy, Dr. D. Elmo, Honolulu,
Hawaii: 4 insects, worldwide (2381004) ;
40 flies, including 6 holotypes, from
Hawaii (232025).

Harless, William H., East Moriches,

N.Y.: 2 models of sail scooters
(236176).
Harmston, Dr. Fred C., Greeley,

Colo.: 221 Diptera and 2 Coleoptera
from North, Central, and South America
(235889).

Harnwell, Mrs. Gaylord P., Philadel-
phia, Pa.: 25 items of costume from the
Harral-Wheeler house of the 19th cen-
tury (234864).

Harrington, Mrs. Eleanor S.
Florida State Board of Health)

Harrison, W. H. (See Aluminum Co.
of America)

Harrison, William H., Jr., Rosiclare,
Tll.: 6 filuorites from Alcoa fluorspar
mine, Rosiclare, Ill. (234599).

Hart, David (See Patent Button Co.)

Hart, Milton, Mamaroneck, N.Y.: 670
Brazilian airmail stamps (233640).

Hartman, Dr. Frank A., Columbus,
Ohio: 5 bird skins (232006).

Harvard University, Cambridge,
Mass.: 26 miscellaneous mollusks
(235790, exchange) ; (through Dr. Wil-
liam J. Clench) 26 mollusks (233488,
exchange); (through Dr. Rolla M.
Tryon) 8 miscellaneous ferns (234069,

(See
DONORS TO THE NATIONAL COLLECTIONS

exchange). Arnold Arboretum: 110
plants (2383044, exchange). Gray Her-
barium: 258 phanerogams and 360 ferns
(189848, 232197, exchanges). Museum
of Comparative Zoology: (Through Dr.
W. L. Brown) 9 ants from America,
Australia, and Ceylon (232020);
(through Dr. Herbert W. Levi) 12 cen-
tipedes from Colorado (234008) ; 9 cen-
tipedes from Pacific Islands and the
U.S. (235594, exchange).

Harvey, Oswald L., Silver Spring,
Md.: 9 photographs of stamps and type-
script sheet listing basic printing meth-
ods (2381057); presentation album,
souvenir program, and 2 photographs
issued on the occasion of the 4-cent
American Women stamp; also 114 mis-
cellaneous philatelic publications
(231757) ; envelope with incorrectly
dated meter cancellation (234047).

Hashimoto, Dr. H. (See Shimoda
Marine Biological Station)

Hastings, Athenia Belknap, Estate
of: (Through John F. Hastings) 6 uni-
form items, 2 British service medals,
and a glass decanter (227309, bequest).

Hastings, John F. (See Hastings,
Athenia Belknap)

Hatch, Dr. M. H., Seattle, Wash.: 6
scarab beetles from Washington State
(234021).

Hatschbach, Dr. Gert, Curitiba, Pa-
rana, Brazil: 158 phanerogams, 43
ferns, and 13 grasses from Brazil
(181516, 230848, 231521, 232348, 233647,
234320).

Hatten, Charles W. (See Pan Ameri-
can International Oil Corp.)

Hattori Botanical Laboratory, Obi,
Nichinan-shi, Japan: 150 ecryptogams
from Japan (231555, 233463, ex-
changes).

Haviland, Frederick (See Haviland
and Co., Inc.)

Haviland and Co., Inc., New York,
N.Y.: (Through Frederick Haviland)
46 engraver’s proofs and color transfers
used by donor in making Hayes White
House china (231180).

Hawaii, University of, Honolulu,
Hawaii: 7 grasses from Hawaii
(231234) ; (through Dr. J. E. Alicata)

141

8 fresh-water snails from Hawaii
(230319) ; (through Alan Lewis) 55
parasitic copepods, including 15 types
(231377) ; (through Spencer Tinker) 3
fishes from Oahu, Hawaii (232607, ex-
change).

Hawkes, Alex D., Coconut Grove,

‘Fla.: Orchid from Panama (232875).

Hawkins, Mrs. Helen W., Haleyville,
Ala.: Fern from Alabama (234457).

Hayes, John J. (See Morse Twist
Drill and Machine Co.)

Hays, Mrs. Dorothy, Des Moines,
Iowa: Groutite from Cuyuna Range,
Crosby, Minn. (232177).

Hays, Dr. Kirby L., Auburn, Ala.: 2

flies, paratypes, from Alabama
(235018).
Hays, Raymond, Jr., Washington,

D.C.: 15 mollusks from Tertiary of
Cape Arago, Oreg. (235463).

Hays, Dr. Robert C., Albany, N.Y.:
(Through Dr. John R. Greeley) para-
sitic isopod (232792).

Hayward, Richard N., Curundu,
Canal Zone, Panama: 58 fossil echinoids
from the Hocene of Panama (232089).

Headman, Francis W., Knoxville,
Tenn.: Revolutionary War militia flag
carried by Francis William Headman
at the battles of Trenton and German-
town, and handed down father to son to
present donor (235383).

Health, Education, and Welfare, U.S.
Department of, Washington, D.C.: Pub-
lic Health Service: (Through Dr. Rich-
ard B. Eads) 2,000 slides, comprising
the Strom collection of Aphidae
(232100) ; (through Dr. Glen M. Kohls)
9 ticks, paratypes, from Washington
State (234610). Arctic Research
Center: (Through Dr. Laurence Irving)
6 rosy finches and 2 loons (234188) ;
(through Dr. Robert Rausch) 2 bird
skins, 1 egg, 7 wolverine skulls, and a
shrew (232008, 232936). Communicable
Disease Center: (Through Dr. Harry D.
Pratt) 4 slides of lice from Arizona,
paratypes (234148). National Insti-
tutes of Health: (Through Dr. Herbert
Dalmat) 31 bats from Guatemala
(232004); (through Dr. Robert J.
Huebner and R. S. Peterson) 79 house
142

mice from New York City (234867).
Middle America Research Onit:
(Through Dr. Conrad Yunker) 22 her-
mit crabs, a bat from Quebee, and 5
rodents and marsupials from the Canal
Zone (231201, 282953, 2385897). Rocky
Mountain Laboratory: (Through Dr. J.
Frederick Bell) 30 bats from Idaho and
Montana (225461); (through Drs.
Hleanor K. Jones and James M. Bren-
nan) 41 slides of chiggers, types, world-
wide (234007).

Hedgpeth, Dr. Joel W. (See Pacific
Marine Station)

Heidecker, Eric, Arcadia, Australia:
(Through Dr. Hillis L. Yochelson) 8 mol-
lusks from the Devonian of North
Queensland (231016).

Heilman, Robert A., Lebanon, Pa.: 2
mosses collected by donor (233877).

Heim, Prof. Roger (See Museum Na-
tional d’Histoire Naturelle)

Heinrich, Gerd, Dryden, Maine: 5
wasps from the U.S. (230212, 231620,
exchanges).

Henbest, L. G., Washington, D.C.: 5
orthoclase samples from Colorado, on
the north bank of the Arkansas River
(231688).

Henderson, E. P., Washington, D.C.:
Specimens of the Stannern, Czecho-
slovakia, meteorite and the Aroos,
Azerbaijan, meteorite (231917, 231918).

Henderson, William, Mt. Pleasant,
Utah: Miner’s oil lamp with shield and
oil cap lamp (235036).

Hendrick, Joseph L. (See Ossining
Publie Schools)

Henry, Dr. Dora, Seattle, Wash.: 30
barnacles, including holotypes and 2
paratypes (232928).

Henshaw, Prof. Clement L. (See Col-
gate University)

Hentershee, R. A. (See Ernest Scott
and Co., Ine.)

Heqvist, Dr. K. J. (See Royal Swed-
ish Museum of Natural History)

Heraldic Art, Cleveland, Ohio:
Silver medal commemorating the Pony
Express Centennial (232476); 2 com-
memorative medals honoring the Boy
Scouts of America and Pioneer Inven-
tions, issued in 1960 (235057).

U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1961

Herbario “Barbosa Rodrigues,”
Itajai, Santa Catarina, Brazil: 354
phanerogams and 12 grasses from Bra-
zil (231516, 231979).

Herbarium Bogoriense, Bogor, Indo-
nesia: 1,286 phanerogams and 1 fern
(233554, exchange).

Herber, Dr. E. C., Carlisle, Pa.: 77
fresh-water mollusks from Lake Coate-
peque, El Salvador (229078).

Herbier Marie-Victorin de l’Univer-
sité de Montréal, Montreal, Quebec,
Canada: 791 phanerogams, 71 grasses,
and 44 ferns from Canada (235616, ex-
change).

Hermann, Dr. F. J., Adelphi, Md.: 49
phanerogams and 2 grasses (235617).
(See also Agriculture, U.S. Department
of)

Herpich, William M. (See Progressive
Manufacturing Co.)

Hertlein, Dr. Leo G. (See California
Academy of Sciences)

Hey, Dr. M. H., London, England: 2
samples of Libyan Desert glass tektite

(231697). (See also Great Britain,
Government of)
Heyden, Father Francis J. (See

Georgetown University)

Hicks, Dr. W. D. (See Ontario De-
partment of Mines)

Hiergesell, Val.
ment Co.)

Higginbotham,
Hugh V.)

Hilberry, Dr. Norman (See Argonne
National Laboratory)

Hilbert, Dr. G. E. (See Agriculture,
U.S. Department of)

Hill Acme Co., Cleveland, Ohio:
(Through L. R. Connor) forging ma-
chine and print of color film (235032).

Historical Society of Western Penn-
sylvania, Pittsburgh, Pa.: (Through
Robert D. Christie) model underground
steam locomotive used in the Hartley-
Marshall mine (235973).

Hitchcock, Harold B., Middlebury,
Vt.: 4 slides of mites collected in Davis
Cave, Blanco Co., Tex. (232328).

Hitchcock, Walter A., Warrenton,
Va.: Hand-powered cider mill and press,
and belt-driven corn grinder (233465).

(See H-B Instru-

Jeff (See Stabler,
DONORS TO THE NATIONAL COLLECTIONS

Hitchins, Mrs. John 6. Sharon,
Mass. ; German passglas, 1718 (235959).

Hite, Mrs. Otis, Russellville, Ark.:
300 centipedes from Arkansas (234139).

Hobbs, Dr. Horton H., Jr., Char-
lottesville, Va.: 18 parasitic ostracods,
types, from crayfishes (232783) ;
(through Dr. George H. Penn) 3 cray-
fishes, allotype, holotype, and morpho-
type (284690).

Hobbs, Morris Henry, New Orleans,
La.: 3 phanerogams from Central Amer-
ica (235622).

Hodges, Ronald, Ithaca, N.Y.: 13
small moths from North America
(236029).

Hodson, Mrs. Frank, Washington,
D.C.: Silver vanity box of the 19th
century (2353886).

Hoffman, Al (See Brandt, Dr. Rolf
A.)

Hoffman, Dr. R. L., Blacksburg, Va.:
5 millipedes from Mexico and the U.S.,
including holotypes and paratypes
(235845).

Hoffman, Ralph (See Jones, Mrs.
Catherine M.)

Hoggson and Pettis Co., New Haven,

Conn.: (Through William Ford) 5
pieces of blacksmith equipment
(2385976).

Hogue, Robert E., Alexandria, Va.: 2
water-color paintings of personnel on
board U.S. Coast Guard Northwind by
donor (233561).

Hokkaido University, Sapporo, Ja-
pan: (Through Dr. Sh. F. Sakagami)
30 bees from Japan (2331838, exchange).

Holland, Dr. C. G., Fresno, Calif.:
4,630 miscellaneous archeological ob-
jects from Augusta, Bath, Highland,
Rockingham, and Rockbridge Cos., Va.
(235610).

Holland, Herbert (See Shelton Tack
Co.)

Holland, Howard A. (See Owen, John
T., Estate of)

Hollett, John A., Alexandria, Va.:
Fish from Stoney River, Virginia
(230874).

Holm, Weston, Silver Spring, Md.:
Marine mollusk from the Persian Gulf,
Saudi Arabia (232183).

143

Holsinger, J. R., Alexandria, Va.:
Cave beetle from Virginia (283531).

Holt, Mrs. C. Parker, Pebble Beach,
Calif.: 1886 Holt Combined Harvester-
Thresher (236419).

Holt, Ira C., St. Paul, Minn.: 14 pre-
canceled stamps (234184).

Holthuis, Dr. L. B. (See Great Brit-
ain, Government of; and Rijksmuseum
van Natuurlijke Historie)

Homan, B. H., Jr.. New York, N.Y.:
26,980 Argentine fiscal stamps (228081).

Homan, C. D., Oglesby, Tex.: 5 echi-
noids from the Cretaceous of Texas
(229083) ; 94 invertebrates from the
Cretaceous of Texas (232919, 234811).

Hoogstraal, Dr. Harry (See Defense,
U.S. Department of)

Hoover, Edna (See Agriculture, U.S.
Department of)

Hopkins, Thomas L.
State University)

Hopla, Dr. C. E., Norman, Okla.: 4
bat fleas from Kansas (235887).

Hoppe, H. J., Oakton, Va.: Die stock
and blacksmith’s post drill (232220).

Hopping, Dr. George H. (See Can-
ada, Government of)

Horner, Dr. B. E., Northampton,
Mass.: 2 biting lice from Australia
(235891).

Horrigan, W. J. (See Walker, Mrs.
Ethel V.)

Hotchkiss, Mrs. Stewart R., Red-
lands, Calif.: 3 pairs of women’s stock-
ings ca. 1900 (230962).

Hotton, Dr. Nicholas, III, Washing-
ton, D.C.: Labyrinthodont amphibian
from the Permian of Kansas collected
by Dr. Hotton (234445).

Houston, Dr. Charles O., Washington,
D.C.: Silk necktie with the official in-
signia of General Chiang Kai-shek
(231540).

Houtermans, Prof. F. G., Bern, Swit-
zerland: Moldavite from Czechoslo-
vakia (231680).

Houtz, Dr. R. E. (See Fiji Islands,
Government of)

Howden Jewelers, Beverly Hills,
Calif.: (Through Ralph EH. Becker) 18
pieces of jewelry from the Democratic
and Republican campaigns of 1960
(2359385).

(See Florida
144

Howe, Alice H., Arlington, Va.: Fos-
sil skull of a loon collected near Chesa-
peake Beach, Md., by donor (2383274).

Howell, John (See Sentkoski, Clem-
ent)

Howells, Dr. and Mrs. William White,
Kittery Point, Maine: Hungarian cos-
tume and 5 woven belts (233394).

Howland, Dr. Richard H., Washing-
ton, D.C.: 142 miscellaneous U.S. and
foreign covers bearing postage stamps
and postal meter markings (234181,
236153).

Hubbard, C. Andreson, Tigard, Oreg.:
86 slides of fleas from Alaska, Iraq,
and western U.S. and Mexico (235022).

Hubbs, Dr. Carl L. (See Scripps In-
stitution of Oceanography)

Huber, Dr. N. King (See Interior,
U.S. Department of the)

Hubricht, Leslie, Atlanta, Ga.: 244
mollusks from Florida, Georgia, and
South Carolina, 2 salamanders, types,
from Morgan Co., Ga., and Butler Co.,
Ala., and 17 salamanders and 2 cray-
fishes from southern U.S. collected by
donor (228617, 231128, 283141).

Hudson, R. (See Keystone Lamp
Manufacturing Corp.)

Huebner, Dr. Robert J. (See Health,
Education, and Welfare, U.S. Depart-
ment of )

Hughes, Dr. R. J., Jr., University,
Miss. : 2 fossil pelecypods (234441).

Hulings, Dr. Neil, Gloucester Point,
Va.: (Through Dr. Marvin L. Wass)
amphipod (229896). (See also Texas
Christian University).

Hultén Dr. Eric, Stockholm, Sweden:
656 phanerogams, 104 grasses, and 27
ferns from Alaska collected by donor
(236100).

Humes, Arthur G., Boston, Mass.:
451 copepods, paratypes, and 17 bur-
rowing shrimp (233450, 235123). (See
also Boston University )

Hundhausen, Mrs. A., Wausau, Wis.:
52 miscellaneous U.S. precanceled
stamps (235658).

Hunt, David R., London, England:
467 phanerogams, 94 grasses, and 12
ferns collected on the Cambridge Ex-
pedition to British Honduras, 1959-60
(228969).

U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM

ANNUAL REPORT, 1961

Hurd, Dr. Paul D., Berkeley, Calif. : 2
flies, holotype and allotype (2382703).
(See also California, University of)

Huston, Stewart, Coatesville, Pa.:
18th-century chaise (233575). -

Huston, Mrs. W. M., Akron, Ohio:
Silk campaign badge (2338299).

Hutchinson, Herbert L., Framingham,
Mass.: 96 precanceled stamps (233700).
Hyland, Dr. K. E., Jr., Kingston, R.1.:
slides of nasal mites from Pennsyl-
vania (233829).

Hynd, W. R. B., Owlsmoor near
Camberly, Surrey, England: 14 flies and
lacewings from England (231410).

Hynek, Dr. J. Allen (See Northwest-
ern University )

Idaho, University of, Moscow, Idaho:
83 grasses from Idaho (233085).

Ideal Pin Co., Beacon Falls, Conn.:
(Through Stuart Lamb) safety pin
machine (2385967).

Illg, Dr. Paul L. (See Washington,
University of)

Illinois, University of, Urbana, II1.:
(Through Dr. R. B. Selander) 169 blis-
ter beetle larvae from North America
(2346638, exchange).

Illinois Natural History Survey Di-
vision, Urbana, Ill.: (Through John
Kingsolver) 13 caddisflies from eastern
U.S. (235789); (through Dr. H. H.
Ross) 6 leafhoppers, paratypes, from
North America (231486).

Illinois State Museum, Springfield,
Ill. : Grass from Illinois (2384808).

Imamura, Prof. Taiji, Mito, Japan:
50 water mites from Japan (231003).

Imperial College of Science and Tech-
nology, London, England: (Through Dr.
O. W. Richards) 2 flies from Juan
Fernandez Islands and Hast Africa
(229208, exchange).

India & Holy Land Crafts (See Por-
ter, Lenore EB.)

Indiana University,
Ind.: 52 phanerogams
change).

Industria e Comércio de Minérios S.
A—ICOMI, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil:
60 pyrolusites for ICOMI manganese
mine, Amapa, Brazil (231906).

Industrial Plants Corp., New York,
N.Y.: (Through Sidney Kriser) rope

2

a

Bloomington,
(234989, ex-
DONORS TO THE NATIONAL COLLECTIONS

drop stamp and a wooden cornice brake
(235985) .

Ingeloff, Thorsten, Karlstad, Swe-
den: 66 philatelic envolopes bearing
Swedish postal markings (234198).

Inghram, Dr. Mark G. (See Chicago,
University of)

Institut Francais d’Afrique Noire, |-

Dakar, Sénégal, Africa: (Through Dr.
Theodore Monod) 5 fishes from the
eastern Atlantic (231348, exchange).
Section de Biologie Marine: (Through
Dr. Jean Cadenat) 15 fishes from
French West Africa (232531, ex-
change).

Institut Royal des Sciences Naturel-
les de Belgique, Brussels, Belgium:
(Through Dr. A. Capart) fish, paratype,
from the eastern Atlantic (225884,
exchange).

Institute for Medical Research, Kuala
Lumpur, Federation of Malaya:
(Through W. W. MacDonald) 24 mos-
quitoes from Malaya (232185).

Institute of Forest Botany, Hongo,
Tokyo, Japan: (Through Dr. Ken
Shimaji) 40 slides of woods (282207,
exchange).

Institute of Hydrobiology and Fish-
eries, Alexandria, Egypt: (Through
Mounir Wadie Benoub) 21 shrimps and
3 crabs (228537).

Institute of Jamaica, Kingston, Jama-
ica: Science Museum: 381 phanerogams,
6 grasses, and 99 ferns (232055, 232108,
234983, exchanges) ; (through George
R. Proctor) 2 ferns from Jamaica
(231344).

Instituto Agronomico do Norte,
Belém, Para, Brazil: 587 phanerogams
and 14 grasses from Brazil (231832,
gift-exchange) ; phanerogam (232195).

Instituto de Biologia, Mexico, D. F.:
14 phanerogams, including 2 isotypes,
from Mexico (234619, exchange).

Instituto de Botanica Darwinion, San
Isidro, Argentina: 75 phanerogams, 27
grasses, and 1 fern from Argentina
(233539, exchange).

Instituto de Ciencias Naturales,
Bogota, Colombia: 14 phanerogams
from Colombia (231042) ; 53 phanero-
gams and 5 ferns from Colombia
(235551, exchange); (through Dr.

145

Armando Dugand) fern and cryptogam
from Colombia (228199).

Instituto de Historia Natural, Curi-
tiba, Brazil: 50 phanerogams from
Brazil (230777) ; (through Prof. Ayrton
de Mattos) 67 phanerogams from Brazil
(229715).

Instituto Miguel Lillo, Tucuman,
Argentina: (Through Dr. Teodoro
Meyer) 17 ferns from South America
(232056, exchange).

Institute Nacional de Pesquisas da
Amazonia, Manaus, Amazonas, Brazil:
(Through Dr. William A. Rodrigues)
349 phanerogams (233293).

Instituto Oswaldo Cruz, Rio de
Janeiro, Guanabara, Brazil: 290 phan-
erogams from Brazil (231874).

Instituto Tecnologico de Veracruz,
Veracruz, Mexico: (Through Jorge
Carranza) 5 fishes from Mexico
(232340).

Institutum Botanicum Universitatis,
Szeged, Hungary: (Through Dr. Pal
Greguss) 61 microscope slides contain-
ing sections of wood (280959, ex-
change).

Instytut Botaniki, Cracow, Poland:
92 phanerogams, 3 grasses, and 5 ferns
(231553, exchange).

Inter-American Tropical Tuna Com-
mission, La Jolla, Calif.: (Through W.
L. Klawe) 706 marine invertebrates, 8
lots of mollusks, 1 bat, 3 fishes, 1 lot of
medusae, and 9 cultivated phanerogams
(231202, 232112, 232483, 233447, 233589,
234696, 235353).

Interior, U.S. Department of the,
Washington, D.C.: Fish and Wildlife
Service: Phanerogam from ‘Texas
(232271) ; (through Dr. Hilbert H. Ahl-
strom) 14 sharks from the eastern
Pacifie (234759) ; (through Harvey R.
Bullis, Jr.) 286 mollusks, including 4
holotypes, and 180 corals (222802,
232282) ; holotypes of 4 new species of
mollusks from the western Atlantic
(233919) ; (through Harvey Bullis, Jr.,
and Dr. Daniel M. Cohen) 1,114 miscel-
laneous fishes from various localities
(230152) ; (through T. D. Burleigh) 19
skeletons and 1,412 bird skins (235782) ;
(through Dr. Philip A. Butler) 9 cal-
lianassids and 10 sea cucumbers
146 U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM
(231982, 234497) ; (through Clifford H.
Fiscus) 6 slenderbilled shearwaters
(232593) ; (through Raymond J. Fleet-
wood) spiny pocket mouse from Texas
(2383424); (through Dr. Elmer J.
Gutherz) 4shrimps (234691) ; (through
Robert T. B. Iversen) 20 shark jaws
from the Pacific Ocean (234954) ;
(through James A. Kerwin) 11 isopods,
1 tanaid, 14 amphipods, and 3 crabs
(235187) ; (through Joseph King) 98
fishes from the Gulf of Mexico
(230905) ; (through Raymond B. Man-
ning) 2 stomatopods, holotype and para-
type (232927); (through Dr. Richard
H. Manville) 215 mammals (235789) ;
(through Ernest D. McRae, Jr.) 11
crabs, 6 polychaete worms and tubes, 5
shrimps, 1 lot of mollusk eggs, and a
cerianthid tube (231303, 2384569) ;
(through Dr. George C. Miller) 170
erayfishes, 7 mollusks and 48 fishes
(230775) ; (through Warren F. Rath-
jen) blue marlin (230766); (through
Dr. C. Richard Robins) 2 fishes, holo-
type and paratype, from the Western
Atlantic (233288); (through Arnie J.
Suomela) die proof and complete sheet
of 30 Migratory Bird Hunting (Duck)
stamps, 1960-61 (231951); (through
John R. Thompson) lobster, 2 gala-
theids, 9 crabs, and a shrimp (231351,
234312); (through Dr. Roland L.
Wigley) sea plume, 3 corals, and holo-
type and 5 paratypes of isopods
(232489, 233591); (through Loren P.
Woods) fish, paratype (232934). Geo-
logical Survey: 14 fossil mollusks, fossil
gastropod, 2 fossil fish scales from vari-
ous localities; 2,253 phanerogams, 272
grasses, 124 ferns, and a cryptogam col-
lected in Alaska by Lloyd A. Spetzman ;
29 Foraminifera from the Bahama
Banks (230810, 231032, 234561) ; 5 zine
ores and 2 fluorspars from various lo-
ealities (230825); 32 minerals from
Argentina and 60 Brazilian quartz
erystals (231025, 234273) ; (through Dr.
Arthur A. Baker) 10 minerals from
various localities in the Upper Missis-
sippi Valley; weeksite, type; and 2
whewellites from Juab and San Juan
Cos., Utah (228860, 230747, 234997) ; 26
bauxites and related rocks from Minas

ANNUAL REPORT, 1961

Gerais, Brazil (234915); 22 minerals,
rocks, and ores from Japan and Taiwan
(284916, 2354438) ; (through Dr. Preston
E. Cloud) 39 brachiopods from the
Hocene of Italy (235007); (through
Mrs. Dora R. Conklin) 23 ores from
Thailand (231911) ; (through Dr. F. R.
Fosberg) 4 bamboos from Africa
(231556) ; (through Arthur H. Frazier)
3 replicas of historical current meters
dating from 1760 to 1868 (231968) ;
(through Dr. N. King Huber) Pre-
Cambrian coal from northern Michigan
(231013); (through J. Murata) 10
Hawaiian lavas (233818) ; (through Dr.
A. R. Palmer) 32 Cambrian conodonts
from western Europe and the western
United States and 48 fossiliferous lime-
stone nodules from the Miocene of Cali-
fornia (230657); (through Hillard N.
Reiser) 3 cymrites in rock from Alaska
(233518) ; (through Drs. I. G. Sohn and
Jean M. Berdan) 18 slides of ostracodes
from the Middle Devonian of Poland
(234707) ; (through Ruth Todd) 142
Foraminifera from various localities
(232092, 233271); (through Frank C.
Whitmore, Jr.) fossil turtle remains
(235471) ; (through Ellis L. Yochelson)
875 fossil fish remains (235472). Na-
tional Park Service: 4 phanerogams
from Mammoth Cave, Ky. (233462) ;
(through Dr. Richard B. Hads) 4 fleas,
holotypes and allotypes, from Texas
(232088); (through Dr. William B.
Robertson, Jr.) bird skin from Florida
(232415).

International Business Machines
Corp., New York, N.Y.: Model of coin
stamper based on Leonardo Da Vinci’s
designs (234167).

Inverarity, Michael, Falls Church,
Va.: 2 artist’s proofs of German stamps,
17 foreign first day covers, and 241
miscellaneous postage stamps (234040).

Iowa, State University of, Iowa City,
Iowa: (Through Dr. William M. Fur-
nish) 16 fossil brachiopods from the
Danian epoch of Denmark (235883) ;
(through Dr. E. B. Kurtz) early me-
chanical television transmitter WOXK,
and 3 mechanical television sets
(229310).
DONORS TO THE NATIONAL COLLECTIONS

Iowa State University of Science and
Technology, Ames, Iowa: (Through Dr.
Ben S. Willis) Ammeter, Hartman &
Braun (230609).

Irving, Dr. Laurence (See Health,
Education, and Welfare, U.S. Depart-
ment of)

Isham, Lawrence B., Washington,
D.C.: 7 foreign meter impressions, and
11 covers bearing U.S. and foreign
postal meter impressions (234193,
236152).

Israels, Mr. and Mrs. P. W., Hampton,
Va.: Brachiopod and 6 bryozoans from
the Yorktown formation at Rice’s Pit,
Hampton, Va. (232175).

Iversen, Robert T. B. (See Interior,
U.S. Department of the)

Jackson, Robert D., Washington,
D.C.: 4 small mammals from the Dis-
trict of Columbia (236040).

Jacobs, Madelyn, Washington, D.C.:
8 envelopes bearing French and British
postage stamps (234188).

Jaffe, Mark, Washington, D.C.: Star-
ling (236025).

Jakobi, Dr. Hans (See Universidade
do Parana)

James, Dr. Maurice T., Pullman,
Wash. : 2 flies, paratypes (232698). (See
also Washington State University )

James Incorporated, Louisville, Ky.:
(Through Louis Karp) set of 8 so-called
half dollars (231491).

Jameson, John (See Smithsonian In-
stitution)

Janecka, J., Jr., Riverside, Ill.: 38
stamps, first day covers and other phila-
telic memorabilia of the U.S. Champions
of Liberty series (234039).

Jardim Botanico do Rio de Janeiro,
Guanabara, Brazil: 19 phanerogams
from Brazil (234990).

Jardim e Museu Agricola do Ultra-
mar, Belém-Lisboa, Portugal: (Through
Dr. José Diogo Sampaio d’Orey) 33
wood specimens from Portuguese
Guinea and Angola (232205, exchange).

Jardin Botanico, Madrid, Spain: 130
phanerogams, 13 grasses, and 7 ferns
from Spain (234080, exchange).

Jarvi, T., Chicago, Ill.: (Through AlI-
fred P. H. Overment) 87 tape impres-

147

sions from National Postage Meter Co.
machines (232889).

Jeekel, Dr. C. A. W. (See Zoologisch
Museum)

Jefferson, R. C., Wayzata, Minn.:
Model of skate Sailor (286175).

Jenkins, Robert C., Washington, D.C. :
Herbert Hoover portrait ‘‘Toby” pitcher
and bowling pin from the White House
bowling alley (231541, 234460).

Jenkins, Dr. T. B. H. (See University
of Sydney)

Jennings, Clyde, Lynchburg, Va.:
Pair of U.S. 3-cent Defense Issue, Scott
No. 901 (232890).

Jennings, Forster H., Washington,
D.C.: Buddhist paper “Rosary” from
Seoul, Korea (231210).

Jennings, Mrs. Gloria, New York,
N.Y.: 6 items of 19th-century jewelry
(230765).

Jensen, David, Rochester, N.Y.: Fluo-
rite in gypsum from Penfield Quarry,
Monroe Co., N.Y. (23838522). (See also
Ward’s Natural Science Hstablishment )

Jersey Production Research Co.,
Tulsa, Okla.: (Through Walker John-
son) 57 fossil plant spores from the
Mississippian of the Hardinsburg For-
mation of Illinois and Kentucky, types,
and 12 types of pollen grains (234592,
235004).

Jiménez, Dr. José de Js., Santiago de
Los Caballeros, Dominican Republic:
229 phanerogams, 8 grasses, and 24
ferns (226292, 229189, 280978, 233551).

Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore,
Md.: (Through Dr. G. H. Dieke) 5
pieces of scientific apparatus used by
Prof. Henry Rowland (235069) ;
(through Dr. Hverett L. Schiller) 18
mammals from Northwest Territories,
Canada (282005); (through Dr. Wil-
liam J. L. Sladen) skeleton of a bird
(234137).

Johnson, Charles E., Washington,
D.C.: Inaugural banner used during the
2nd inauguration of President Hisen-
hower, January 1957 (231938).

Johnson, Donald H. (See Colorado
School of Mines)

Johnson, Harold (See Defense, U.S.
Department of)
148

Johnson, Sgt. Harold E., Triangle,
Va.: Bittner automatic pistol (210754,
exchange).

Johnson, Dr. Martin W. (See Scripps
Institution of Oceanography)

Johnson, Dr. Phyllis T. (See Gorgas
Memorial Laboratory; and ‘Tipton,
Capt. Vernon J.)

Johnson, Walker (See Jersey Pro-
duction Research Co.)

Jolle Jewelers International, Inc.,
New York, N.Y. (Through Ralph H.
Becker) 6 pieces of jewelry for the
Kennedy 1960 presidential campaign
(234055).

Jones, Mrs. Catharine M., Cincinnati,
Ohio: (Through Ralph Hoffman) 3
philatelic covers bearing U.S. steamboat
markings (232596).

Jones, Dr. Eleanor K. (See Health,
Edueation, and Welfare, U.S. Depart-
ment of)

Jones, Mrs. Josiah Waters, Olney,
Md.: Bath tub, marble basin, and com-
mode chair (232952).

Joyce, E. A., Jr. (See Florida, Univer-
sity of)

Joyner, Capt. James R., Charleston,
$.C.: 12 items of costume of the early
20th century (232769).

Jury, Felix M., Waitara, New Zea-
land: 9 ferns (231671).

Kainen, Jacob, Washington, D.C.:
Vinaigrette of the 19th century and
photograph, “Rooster,’’ by Berenice
Abbott (283907, 234066).

Kaluf, Mrs. John, Bethesda, Md.:

U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM

Shawl from India, 19th century
(231139).
Kander, Mrs. Allen, Washington,

D.C.: Pencil from campaign of James
A. Garfield, 1880 (231224).

Kane, Frank, Hopedale, Ohio.: Min-
er’s cap, 2 lamps, auger with 2 handles,
spike bar, needle and scraper and tamp-
ing bar (2384625).

Kansas, University of, Lawrence,
Kans. : 2 flies, paratypes (232700) ; 278
phanerogams, 91 grasses, and 5 ferns
(234801, 235625 exchanges); (through
Dr. EH. Raymond Hall) frog and a lizard
from Mt. Baw Baw, Victoria, Australia
(230976); (through C. W. Retten-

ANNUAL REPORT, 1961

meyer) 8 ants from Kansas (2382043,
exchange).

Karinska, Barbara, New York, N.Y.:
EKuropean woman’s cap, 19th century,
and doll’s dress, 18th century (232139).

Karp, Louis (See James Incorpo-
rated )

Kashkai, Prof. Mir-Ali, Baku, Azer-
baijan, U.S.S.R.: (Through Dr. D. J.
Wisher) alunite from Zaglik, Azerbai-
jan, U.S.S.R. (234438).

Kasline, C. T. (See Torsion Balance
Co.)

Kauffman, Mrs. Draper L.
Triest, Mrs. Willard) -

Kauffman, Erle G., Washington, D.C.:
1,000 Devonian invertebrate fossils from
Upper Dundee limestone and Silica
shale, Sylvania, Ohio (232865) ; 50 mol-
luscan fossils from the lower ort Hays
member, Upper Cretaceous, 30 slabs of
the Dakota Sandstone, lower South
Platte formation, of Colorado (232867).

Kawaguti, Dr. Siro, Okayama, Japan:
3 marine mollusks from the Inland Sea,
Japan (230103).

Kazanjian Brothers, Los Angeles,
Calif.: Red opal from Mexico and 8
sapphires from Mexico and Montana
(234996).

Kealy, Hinman, L. P., Newark, N.J.:
Iron column designed by Louis Sullivan
in the 1880's (233359).

Keen, Dr. Myra
University )

Keena, Mrs. Kemp, Fredonia, N.Y.:
Plate from the service made in Paris
for Congressman Charles Rich of Ver-
mont, 1820 (233302).

Kehr, Ernest A., New York, N.Y.:
Philatelic cover bearing stamps issued
jointly by the U.S. and Mexico honoring
Mexican Independence, Sept. 15, 1960
(234046).

Keissling, Max (See American Fas-
tener Co.)

Keith, Bernard, Detroit, Mich.: 3,000
assorted brachiopods and 400 inverte-
brate fossils from the Devonian and
Silica shale of Ohio (234651).

Kellen, Dr. William R., Fresno, Calif. :
27 pinned specimens and 91 slides of
insects, types (232954).

(See

(See Stanford
DONORS TO THE NATIONAL COLLECTIONS

Kelley, Irwin M., Washington, D.C.:
Brass plate label and 3 Lee Navy rifle
cartridges from the wreck of the U.S.S
Maine (282888).

Kellogg, M. W., Co. (See M. W. Kel-
logg Co.)

Kelsey, C. W., Troy, N.Y.: Scrapbook
(234030).

Kelso, Dr. Kip G., Sebastian, Fla.:
Wood fragment and 4 cannon balls
(231945).

Kelton, Dr. L. A. (See Canada, Gov-
ernment of)

Kennedy, Fred C., Rochester, Minn.:
Andalusite from Minas Gerais, Brazil
(228544).

Kennedy, President John F., Wash-
ington, D.C.: An amphora recovered
from the wreck of the ancient Roman
ship Mare Nostrum (235517).

Kennerdell, Genevieve, Kittanning,
Pa.: Photograph of Richard Kenner-
dell’s properties (234616).

Kent, James, Monroeville, Ohio:
Magic lantern with 16 colored slides of
the 19th century (232107).

Kepner, C. Fred, Chief Warrant Of-
ficer, Washington, D.C.: (Through Paul
P. Weckesser) manuscript and printed
scores of march composed by donor for
second inauguration of Pres. Dwight D.
Hisenhower, also newspaper article
about the composer (231446).

Kerr, Marjorie G.(See Staten Island
Historical Society)

Kerrich, G. J., London, England:
Paratypes of 2 wasps from Australia
(232019). (See also Great Britain,
Government of)

Kerwin, James A., Virginia Beach,
Va.: 7 insects from Virginia (235811).
(See also Interior, U.S. Department of
the)

Keuffel, A. W. (See Keuffel & Esser
Co.)

Keuffel & Esser Co., Hoboken, N.J.:
(Through A. W. Keuffel) mathematical
ealeulating chart and 10 slide rules
(235479).

Keystone Lamp Manufacturing Corp.,
Slatington, Pa.: (Through Howard EH.
Shearer and R. Hudson) Richard’s Sys-
tem standard gage (234024).

149

Khalaf, Dr. Kamel, Baghdad, Iraq:
99 biting midges from Iraq (233276).

Khan, Rahim Bux, Karachi, Pakis-
tan: 60 used postage stamps of Pakis-
tan (234635).

Kidston, Comdr. Donald E., Washing-
ton, D.C.: U.S. National Ensign raised

“on Namur Island, Feb. 1, 1944 (234629).

Kimball, Charles, West Barnstable,
Mass.: 141 miscellaneous moths and
beetles from Florida (2320382).

Kimball, Samuel Eastman  (de-
ceased): (Through Mrs. Adele Scott)
vegetable dish from the Privateer “‘Ala-
bama’” (235044).

Kimsey, Mayor M. E., Scottsdale,
Ariz.: Vice President’s flag (2382694).

Kincaid, Dr. Trevor, Seattle, Wash. :
50 flies from Seattle, Wash. (232104).

King, Charles E. (See Florida State
University )

King, Elbert, Jr., Austin, Tex.: 15
tektites from Texas (233711, ex-
change).

King, H. G., Henderson, New Zealand :
13 Hymenoptera from New Zealand
(235018).

King, Mrs. Herbert F., Washington,
D.C.: 2 obsolete State Bank notes
(232218).

King, Joseph (see Interior, U.S. De-
partment of the)

Kingry, Philip, Lexington Park, Md.:
2 fossil crabs from the Miocene of
Maryland (232090).

Kingsbury, E. J. (See Kingsbury Ma-
chine Tool Corp.)

Kingsbury Machine Tool Corp.,
Keene, N.H.: (Through E. J. Kings-
bury) Kingsbury automatic drilling
unit (235983).

Kingsolver, John (See Illinois Nat-
ural History Survey)

Kintziger, Michael, Escanaba, Mich. :
40 precanceled stamps (233693).

Kirkpatrick, Dr. Ralph D., Upland,
Ind.: 19 ground squirrels from Indiana
(230297).

Kirkwood, Carl W., Summerland,
Calif.: 16 moths from Arizona (234015).

Kisch, Dr. Bruno, Brooklyn, N.Y.:
Heller electrocardiograph and 8 weights
and measures (234031, 235392).
150

Kissinger, Dr. David (See Atlanta
Union College)

Kissinger, Mrs. Ursel E., Temple, Pa. :
8 precanceled stamps (235068).

Klausewitz, Dr. Wolfgang (See
Senckenbergische Naturforschende Ge-
sellschaft)

Klawe, Dr. W. L. (See Inter-American
Tropical Tuna Commission and Scripps
Institution of Oceanography)

Kleeman, Dr. A. W. (See Adelaide,
University of)

Klein, Edward L.
Inc.)

Klein, Fred B., Daytona Beach, Fla.:
30 miscellaneous Latin American post-
age stamps and reprints (2353888).

Klein, Mr. and Mrs. Fred B., Daytona
Beach, Fla.: 5 philatelic covers, 23 re-
prints of stamps, 44 counterfeit stamps,
and 3 faked cancellations (233769).

Klinikowski, Ronald, Reading, Pa.:
Cuban finch (232749).

Knight, Mrs. J. Brookes, Sarasota,
Fla.: 16 invertebrate fossils from the
Pleistocene, Lindos, Greece (233814).

Knobby Krafters, Attleboro, Mass.:
(Through Ralph EH. Becker and William
A. Nerney) 12 elephant pins from the
1960 presidential campaign (236122).

Knobloch, Dr. Irving W. (See Michi-
gan State Univesity)

Knowles, B. L., Arlington, Va.: 6
porcelain plates with gold and platinum
decorations of the early 20th century
(235958).

Knowles, George B., Port Washing-
ton, N.Y.: Strip of 6 mint U.S. airmail
stamps (Scott #C23) (235662).

Knowlton, Dr. George F., Logan,
Utah: 71 aphids from Ohio and west-
ern U.S. (235826).

Kohen, Charles, Washington, D.C.:
8-Heller silver coin struck in 1629 in
Duesseldorf (233050).

Kohls, Dr. Glen M. (See Health, Edu-
cation, and Welfare, U.S. Department
of)

Kohn, Dr. Alan J., Tallahassee, Fla. :
19 marine mollusks from Ponape, Caro-
line Islands (232541).

Kohn, Mrs. Marian A., Tallahassee,
Fla.: 6 long-legged flies (231921).

U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM

(See Daystrom,

ANNUAL REPORT, 1961

Koile, Byrl R., Hibbing, Minn.: Bass
drum earried by donor’s grandfather
during the Civil War (233580).

Kolomensky, Dr. V. D. (See Corny
Institute Museum)

Komarek, E. V., Tallahassee, Fla.:
141 mammals from southeastern and
southwestern U.S. (236041).

Koney, E. J., Burlingame, Calif.: Air-
mail first night flight cover from Chi-
cago to San Francisco, July 1, 1924, and
associated newspaper clipping from the
Chicago Tribune (234195).

Kopf, Rudolph W., Monticello, Utah:
Trackway of labyrinthodont amphibian
from the Permian of Navajo Co., Ariz.
(234652).

Koppe, Edwin F., Harrisburg, Pa.: 2
asphaltites from Nottingham Township,
Washington Co., Pa. (231912).

Kornicker, Dr. Louis S., Port Aran-
sas, Tex.: 2 gorgonians and 5 zoanthids
(232275).

Korotkin, Fred, Minneapolis, Minn.:
6 U.S. covers bearing special “Topex”
1960 convention station cancellations
(234185).

Kozloff, Dr. Eugene N., Portland,
Oreg.: 28 centipedes from Oregon
(235880, 236031).

Krantz, Dr. G. W., Corvallis, Oreg.:
3 slides, allotype, holotype, and para-
type, of mites from Oregon (235028).

Kraus, Dr. Otto (See Senckensber-
gische Naturforschende Gesellschaft)

Krause, Peggy, Washington, D.C.:
Spanish fan (231811).

Krauss, Dr. N. L. H., Honolulu,
Hawaii: 92 phanerogams, 7,848 miscel-
laneous insects, 8 millipedes, 3 centi-
pedes, and 4 shells from the Azores Is-
lands, England, Europe, Madeira, Mex-
ico, Morocco, Portugal, South America,
and Spain (2380726, 232102, 233281,
2358138, 235814, 236111).

Kreuz, Rear Adm. Frank P. (See De-
fense, U.S. Department of)

Krieger, Herbert W., Washington,
D.C.: 172 archeological items collected
in 1987 by donor from the American
and British Virgin Islands, Lesser An-
tilles (146257).

Kriser, Sidney (See Industrial Plants
Corp.)
DONORS TO THE NATIONAL COLLECTIONS

Krombein, Dr. Karl V., Arlington,
Va.: 2 bees from Arizona and New Mex-
ico (232105) ; 1,124 miscellaneous in-
sects, including holotype, from Lost
River State Park, W. Va., and Wash-
ington, D.C. (234016, 284018) ; bethylid
wasp, holotype, from Kill Devil Hills,
N.C. (235803).

Krook, N., Prince Rupert, B.C.; Jun-
ior typewriter of 1907 (235998).

Krumholz, A. J. (See Atlantic Re-
fining Co.)

Kukachka, Dr. B. Francis (See Agri-
culture, U.S. Department of)

Kuntz, Karl (See Kuntz, Lisa)

Kuntz, Lisa and Karl, San Francisco,
Calif.;: 97 miscellaneous insects from
Taipei (233528).

Kuntz, Dr. Robert E., San Francisco,
Calif.: 2 dried fish skins and 347 mis-
cellaneous insects from Formosa
(231999, 283287). (See also Defense,
U.S. Department of)

Kuroko, Dr. H., Hikosan, Japan: 5
small moths from Japan (236027).

Kurtz, Dr. E. B. (See State Univer-
sity of Iowa)

Kuschel, Dr. Guillermo, Santiago,
Chile: 256 small moths from Juan Fer-
nandez Islands and 42 flies from Chile
(2138508, 235829).

Kyoto, University of, Kyoto, Japan:
185 miscellaneous ferns from Japan
(232054, exchange); (through Dr.
M. Tagawa) 2 phanerogams and 27
ferns, isotypes and paratypes, from Ja-
pan (232753).

Kyushu University, Fukuoka, Japan:
(Through Dr. K. Yasumatsu) 2 bees
from Japan (233215, exchange).

La Berge, Wallace E., Lincoln, Nebr. :
20 bees from the U.S. (233277).

Labor Committee for Kennedy and
Johnson, Washington, D.C.: Campaign
portraits of President Kennedy and
Vice President Johnson (234428).

Laboratoire de Zoologie, Montpellier,
France: (Through Dr. A. Bournier) 26
thrips from France (232096, exchange).

Ladd, Dr. Harry S., Washington,
D.C.: 321 fresh-water mollusks from
Babelthuap and Palau Islands
(234157).

151

Laffoon, Dr. Jean, Iowa City, Iowa:
2 flies, holotypes (232702).
LaFollette, Charles M., Evansville,

Ind.: Fossil fish on slab from near
Holzmaden, Wurttemberg, Germany
(232447).

_ L’Agence Philatelique de la Repub-
lique de Guinea (See Republic of
Guinea, Government of)

La Gorce, John Oliver, Estate of:
(Through William H. Wiegering) col-
lection of weapons, accessories, armor,
stone artifacts, and pottery figures,
worldwide (229198, bequest).

Lake, Robert W., Newark, Del.: 14
mosquitoes from Delaware (235020).
Lamb, Stuart (See Ideal Pin Co.)
Lambie, Margaret, Washington, D.C.:

9 paintings and notebooks by Mrs.

Richard W. Search (230808).

LaMonte, Dr. Francesca R. (See
American Museum of Natural History)

Lamore, Donald H., Nevada, Mo.: 2
bird skeletons from France (234321).

Lancaster, Dr. Douglas A. (See
Louisiana State University)

Landis Tool Co., Waynesboro, Pa.:
(Through D. H. Ruth) Landis grinding
machine and Landis transfer grinding
machine model (284095).

Lane, Dr. John, Sio Paulo, Brazil:
34 gnats from the Neotropics (235012).

Lange, Kenneth I. (See Feinstein,
Bernard R.)

Langley, Carol, Washington, D.C.:
Ruby-throated hummingbird (232009).

Lankester, C. H., Cartago, Costa
Rica: Phanerogam (281549).

Lanza, Dr. Benedetto (See Florence,
University of)

Latham, Dana (See Treasury, U.S.
Department of the)

Latham, Roy, Orient, N.Y.: 6 phanero-
gams from New York (236110).

Laudon, Dr. Lowell R., Madison,
Wis.: 34 invertebrate fossils from the
Permian of Canada (235468).

Lauff, Dr. George H. (See Georgia,
University of; and Gray, Milton B.)

Lay, W. C. (See Aluminum Co. of
America)

Layne, Dr. James N., Gainesville,
Fla.: 25 fleas from Florida (236035).
152

Layton, John B. (See District of
Columbia, Government of)

League of Women Voters of the
United States (See McKay, Mrs. Elmer
and Wetzel, Mrs. Ruth N.)

Leatherman, Mrs. Sylvia, South El
Monte, Calif.: 4 cultivated ferns
(232051).

Leavens, Peter, New Haven, Conn. :
Right hand of fossil crab from the
Miocene of Gay Head, Mass. (233815).

LeCalvez, Dr. Yolande, Paris, France:
(Through Ruth Todd) 5 Recent
Foraminifera from France (235465).

Lee, Bong Nai (See National Fish-
eries Experiment Station)

Lee, George L., Bernardsville, N.J.:
Used 5-cent Canadian St. Lawrence
Seaway stamp with inverted center and
557 Royal Imperforate printings of
HKgyptian stamps (2383848, 233849).

Lee, Kenneth E., Jonesboro, Tenn.:
Prohibition, Anti-Socialist button, 1960
(2384824).

Leech, Hugh B., San Francisco,
Calif.: 4 paratypes of beetles from
California and Chile (233285).

Leeds, University of, Leeds, Hng-
land: (Through Dr. O. Von Knorring)
kennedyite from Southern Rhodesia
(236019) .

Leftwich, Lt. James J., Terminal Is-
land, Calif.: Coast Guard officer’s cap,
ea. 1900 (231419).

Lehman, Rey. Thomas H., Newton,
Mass.: Fossil crab from the Miocene
of Gay Head, Mass. (283817).

Lehmann, Gerald E., Lyons, N.J.: 4
historical newspapers covering the
death of President William McKinley
(234676).

Lemaire, Robert J., Grand Island,
Neb.: 81 phanerogams, 21 grasses, and
1 fern from southeastern Louisiana
(235879).

Lentz, Leonard J. P., Baltimore, Md.:
Fan of about 1890 and a Radiola IV
radio receiver (233059).

Lenz, Prof. Arno T. (See Wisconsin,
University of)

Leonard, Emery C., Washington,
D.C.: 707 phanerogams from Maryland
(234074).

U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1961

Levenson, Mrs. Bertha, Washington,
D.C.: (Through Frederick Levenson)
Russian Army belt container (285564).

Levenson, Frederick (See Levenson,
Mrs. Bertha)

Levi, Dr. Herbert W. (See Harvard
University )

Levinson, Dr. A. A., Freeport, Tex.:
Mineral, psilomelane-type, from La
Abundancia Mine, Zacatecas, Mex.
(232869).

Levinson, Dr. S. A., Houston, Tex.:
(Through Dr. I. Gregory Sohn) 13 os-
tracodes from the Middle Ordovician of
Oklahoma (235467). .

Levko, Noel, New York, N.Y.: 37
minerals from various localities
(235151, exchange).

Levy, Edgar, Colorado Springs, Colo.:
182 miscellaneous U.S. precanceled
stamps (234636).

Lewis, Alan (See Hawaii, University
of)

Lewis, L. Logan (See Carrier Corp.)

Lewis, Rae T., Washington, D.C. : Tea-
pot and dish of the 18th and 19th cen-
turies (232958).

Lewis, Mrs. Roger H., Andover,
Mass.: 41 star U.S. flag (285529).

Libman, C. R., Orlando, Fla.: 5 U.S.
philatelic covers (233768).

Library of Congress, Washington,
D.C.: 45 miscellaneous objects from the
Joseph M. Toner collection (235052) ; 2
bronze medals (235060) ; (through Na-
than R. Hinhorn) medal struck in 1952
commemorating the 100th anniversary
of the founding of the Patriarchal Li-
brary, Alexandria, Egypt (231753) ; 500
miscellaneous prints and photographs
of animals (232802) ; (through L. Quin-
cy Mumford) 4,642 stampless covers and
envelopes bearing miscellaneous U.S.
and foreign stamps (232892). Hispanic
Foundation: (Through Howard F.
Cline) 43 sherds from Oaxaco, Mexico
(235916). Stamp Club: (Through Na-
than R. Hinhorn) 486 miscellaneous
used foreign postage stamps (236141).

Ligas, Frank J., Fort Lauderdale,
Fla.: Parasitic helminth worms from
the trachea and body cavity of a cotton-
mouth from Andytown, Broward Co.,
Fla. (230612).
DONORS TO THE NATIONAL COLLECTIONS

Limon, Robert, Washington, D.C.:
Star garnet, 174 carats, from Idaho
(234558, exchange).

Lincoln, Frederick C., Estate of:
(Through Dr. Richard H. Manville)
90 firearms, accessories, and ammuni-
tion from the Frederick G. Lincoln es-
tate (235562).

Lindquist, Evert, Berkeley, Calif.: 9
slides of mites from North America
(236030) .

Lindquist, Harry L., New York, N.Y.:
216 U.S. War Savings stamps, 25 U.S.
Savings stamps, and 3,501 U.S. and
foreign first day, first flight, and mis-
eellaneous covers (233569, 233772).

Lindroth, Dr. Carl H., Lund, Sweden:
Paratype of a beetle from Canada
(235895 ) .

Lindsay, Mrs. Steele, Seattle, Wash. :
Sample of material from the Grant-
Wilson campaign of 1872 (233300).

Lines, Phillip D., La Plata, Md.: 3
potsherds from Prince Georges Co., Md.
(234975) .

Lingebach, J. C., Washington, D.C.:
6 mammals from Maryland and West
Virginia (236039).

Link, Edwin A., New York, N.Y.: 9
items from wreck of the Ivory ca. 1760,
and 3880 objects collected on expedition
to wreck site of 1733 fleet in Florida
Straits area (231946, 232060).

Lipscomb, James, New York, N.Y.:
Proof sheet of notes issued by the Ocean
Bank in Stonington, Conn. (235058).

Little, Arthur D., Inc. (See Arthur D.
Little, Ine.)

Litsey, John B.
John H.)

Livingstone, Daniel, Durham, N.C.:
123 miscellaneous slides of pollen prepa-
rations and 219 slides of pollen (231544,
234995 ) .

Llubetic, Antonio, Bayside, N.Y.:
(Through M. Stecker) 52 danburites
from Rio Cristalmayu, Chapare, Bolivia
(232001).

Locklin, Charles R., St. Petersburg,
Fla., and Fargo, William G. (deceased) :
294 invertebrate fossils, including holo-
types of gastropods, from the Pliocene
of Florida (166168).

(See Tenery, Col.

153

Lockwood, Vice Adm. Charles A., Jr.,
Monte Sereno, Calif.: 13 personal
mementos of World War II (233566).

Loeblich, Dr. A. R. (See Carlquist, Dr.
Sherwin)

Logan, Alan, Newcastle-upon-Tyne,
England: 51 invertebrate fossils from

the Permian of Hngland (232746, ex-

change).

Lehse, Frederick E. (See Coats and
Clark Co.)

Lombard, Harl J. (See Underwood,
Col. Henry M.)

Long, Mrs. Grace R., Arlington, Va.:
Hnlisted man’s artillery saber and scab-
bard (235568).

Loomis, H. F., Miami, Fla.: 62 mil-
lipedes from western U.S., and 2 mil-
lipedes, holotypes, from Florida
(235014, 235810).

Lépez F., Prof. M. (See Universidad
de Oriente)

Los Angeles County Museum, Los
Angeles, Calif.: 25 phanerogams
(232117, exchange).

Louisiana State University, Baton
Rouge, La.: Grass from Louisiana
(231045) ; 55 phanerogams from Louisi-
ana collected by J. V. Shireman
(235627); (through Dr. Douglas A.
Lancaster) 7 termites from British
Honduras (2382018); (through Dr.
George H. Lowery, Jr.) 64 bird lice,
allotypes and holotypes, from Mexico
and the U.S. from the Carriker collec-
tion (234150) ; (through Prof. William
G. McIntire) 123 miscellaneous slides
of pollen (234623, exchange).

Lowenstam, Dr. Heinz A., Pasadena,
Calif.: Brachiopod from Baja Cali-
fornia (231017) ; 8 Recent brachiopods
from Sweden and the Barbados (234591,
exchange).

Lowery, Dr. George H., Jr.
Louisiana State University )

Lundell, Dr. C. L. (See Texas Re-
search Foundation)

Lyon, Geoffrey (See Swarts, Larry)

Lyon, Rowland, Washington, D.C.:
Plow plane (231542).

M. and E. Marine Supply Co., Cam-
den, N.J.: 23 pieces of deep sea diving
equipment (231944).

(See
154

M. W. Kellogg Co. and Esso Standard,
New York, N.Y.: (Through J. M. Carry
and Robert H. Scholl) model of a fluid
eatalytie cracking unit with explana-
tory flow chart (235382).

M. W. Robinson Co., Inc., Rockfall,
Conn.: (Through J. V. C. McKinney)
45 machines and auxiliary parts
(228784).

Maccoun, W. E., Dutch Flat, Calif. :
Soda bottle and balm bottle (234617).

MacDonald, Dr. A. Magruder (See
District of Columbia, Government of)

MacDonald, W. W. (See Institute of
Medical Research)

MacDougall, T., New York, N.Y.: 3
phanerogams from Mexico (231748).

Macfarlane, Donald (See Common-
wealth Institute of Hntomology)

Mackey, Alice B. (See Ward, Mrs.
Gertrude McHench)

MacLeod, Ellis, College Park, Md.:
Insect from the District of Columbia
(231007).

MacNeill, C. Don (See California
Academy of Sciences)

MacSwain, J. W.
University of)

Magness, William R., Roseburg,
Oreg.: Fossil plant from the Tertiary
of Oregon (232862).

Mahta, Peter F., New York, N.Y.:
First flight cover, Bombay to New York,
May 14, 1960 (234190).

Main, Chas. T., Ine. (See Chas. T.
Main, Inc.)

Maine, University of, Orono, Maine:
(Through Dr. W. Harry Everhart) 4
fishes from Maine (231515).

Maine Sardine Council, Augusta,
Maine: (Through Richard HE. Reed)
119 mounted postage stamps depicting
fish from various countries (230314).

Maldonado-Capriles, Dr. J., Maya-
guez, Puerto Rico: 2,938 miscellaneous
insects from Pakistan (232750).

Malkin, S., Washington, D.C.: Cherry
stoner (231742).

Malkin, Stuart J., Bloomfield, N.J.:
382 United Nations first day and first
flight covers and 8 miscellaneous covers
(234197).

Mangor, Elovius (See Norway, Goy-
ernment of)

(See California,

U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1961

Manning, Josephine B. (See Delano,
William Adams)

Manning, Raymond B. (See Interior,
U.S. Department. of the; and Miami,
University of)

Manville, Dr. Richard H. (See In-
terior, U.S. Department of the; and
Lineoln, Frederick C.)

Mara, Prof. Richard T. (See Gettys-
burg College)

Marsh, Mr. and Mrs. Fred Dana,
Woodstock, N.Y.: Oil painting, “Re-
moval of the Last Rock,” by Mr. Marsh
(222468).

Marsh, Paul M., Davis, Calif.: 2 para-
types of a parasitic wasp from the U.S.
(235819).

Marsh, Walt, Belleville, IL:
(Through Ralph H. Becker) 14 song
sheets from the 1960 Republican cam-
paign (235933).

Marshall, Byron C., Hot Springs Na-
tional Park, Ark.: 3 lots of nematode
worms from a three-toed box turtle and

2 crickets from Arkansas (230746,
233526).
Marshall, Mrs. Edward, Lucketts,

Va.: 4 fans, lace jabot, lace lappet, and
embroidered handkerchief of the 19th
and 20th centuries (234917).

Marshall, Dr. J. T., Jr. (See Arizona,
University of)

Marshall, Dr. Norman B. (See Great
Britain, Government of)

Martin L. Ehrmann Co., Los Angeles,
Calif. : 151 minerals from various locali-
ties (230966, exchange); 5 minerals
from Africa and Germany (236023).

Martinez E., Rafael (See Universidad
de Oriente)

Maryland, University of, Baltimore,
Md.: Collection of instruments and re-
search apparatus (233572).

Maryland Department of Research
and Education, Snow Hill, Md.:
(Through Fred W. Sieling) marine mol-
lusk from Virginia (234450).

Masaryk University, Brno, Czecho-
slovakia: 89 phanerogams, 9 grasses,
and 2 ferns from Czechoslovakia
(234986, exchange).

Mason, Benny, Seneca, S.C.: 7 silli-
manites from South Carolina (229761).
DONORS TO THE NATIONAL COLLECTIONS

Mason, C. Russell, Maitland, Fla.:
Nighthawk and bird skin (230869,
234136).

Mason, L. Maurice, Fincham, King’s
Lynn, England: 11 cultivated phanero-
gams (234624).

Mason, Lou, Naples, Fla.: Marine
mollusk from Naples, Fla. (233807).

Masson, Mary G., Washington, D.C.:
4 19th-century dresses and wraps
(280764).

Matejka, Dr. James J., Jr., Chicago,
Iil.: 12 philatelic items issued at Com-
pex, 1960 (234189).

Matuda, Dr. Eizi, Mexico, D.F.: 456
phanerogams collected in Mexico by
donor (236101).

Maul, Dr. G. E. (See Museu Municipal
do Funchal)

Maxwell, Dr. W. G. H. (See Queens-
land, University of)

May, Mrs. Herbert Arthur, Washing-
ton, D.C.: 18 pieces of lace and embroi-
dery and 138 pieces of cut and engraved
glass from the Sea Cloud service
(230744, 234816).

McCalip, Mrs. C. E., Arlington, Va.:
Cedar waxwing (231213).

McCall, Francis J., Washington, D.C.:
86 miscellaneous U.S. and foreign phila-
teliec items (234175, 236155).

McCarthy, Mrs. Eileen (See Smith-
sonian Institution)

McCarthy, Mrs. Robert B., Los Altos,
Calif. : 21 precanceled stamps (2338691).

McCarty, Col. W. A., Alexandria, Va.:
2 marine mollusks from Siasi, Republic
of the Philippines (235899).

McClatchie, Lt. Col. Samuel (address
unknown) : 29 phanerogams from For-
mosa (223855).

McClure, Dr. H. Elliott (See Defense,
U.S. Department of)

McCrary, O. F., Raleigh, N.C.: 2
phanerogams (232651, 232786).

McDermott, Frank A., Wilmington,
Del.: Holotype of a firefly from Bolivia
(236033).

McElvare, R. R. Southern Pines,
N.C.: Holotype of moth from Florida
and 55 miscellaneous moths from
Arizona and Texas (233831, 235831).

McErlean, Andrew J. (See Florida
State Board of Conservation)

609091—61——_12

155

McFarlin, James B., Bradenton,
Fla.: 2 cultivated ferns (231335).

McGahey, Mrs. Carrie Weeks, Wash-
ington, D.C.: Linen handkerchief and
feather fan of the 19th century
(231809).

McGregor, Dr. E. A., Whittier, Calif. :

-6 spider mites from Ecuador (231011).

McHenry, G. Ruth, Washington, D.C.:
Length of material for a dress pur-
chased in 1860 (230805).

McIntire, Prof. William G.
Louisiana State University)

McKay, Mrs. Elmer, Columbia, Mo.:
(Through League of Women Voters of
the United States) sash worn by donor
in the “Golden Lane” suffrage demon-
stration at St. Louis during the Demo-
cratie presidential campaign conven-
tion, 1916 (236135).

McKinney, J. V. C. (See M. W. Robin-
son Co., Inc.)

McMichael, Dr. Donald F.
Australia, Government of)

McRae, Dr. Ernest D. (See Interior,
U.S. Department of the)

Mead, Gordon, Washington,
Broad-winged hawk (232093).

Meade, Fred W., Landover, Md.:
Crimper, 2 potato mashers, griddle,
tongs, peel, lock and knob, knobs, box,
match safe, and typewriter (229771).

Meanley, Brooke, Laurel, Md.: 2
shrews from Louisiana (236042).

Medallie Art Co., New York, N.Y.: 14
Kennedy Inaugural medals, including
plaster casts, die shells, dies, and a proc-
ess set of medals (234795).

Meek, Col. Herbert A. (See Thomas,
Mrs. Roy E.)

Meese, Norman §., San Francisco,
Calif. : 68 marine mollusks from Saipan,
Marianas (230330).

Mehta, Dhirubhai, Bombay, India:
First day cover and first flight cover of
India, 6 covers of postage stamps of
India, and first day cover of India
honoring Tyagaraja Aradhana day
(234186, 235067, 236147).

Melburn, M. C., Victoria, B.C., Can-
ada: 26 lichens collected on Vancouver
Island by donor (229082).

Melcher, Mrs. Kendall B., Douglas,
Ariz.: Ladies’ stockings of the 19th

(See

(See

D.C.:
156

century and The Seaman’s Daily As-
sistant, by Thomas Haselden, used for
Naval instruction, 1770 (233739).

Melson, William, Baltimore, Md.:
Aragonite from Mineral Hill Copper
Mine, Carroll Co., Md. (232181).

Menand, Dean Howard (See Prince-
ton University )

Mendez, Eustorgio
Memorial Laboratory)

Menke, Arnold, Davis, Calif.: Giant
waterbug, paratype (231217).

Merriam, Wesley A., Dansville, N.Y.:
23 miscellaneous scarab beetles from
Vermont (235842).

Metcalfe, Dr.
Botanic Gardens)

Metters, Mrs. Robert G. (See Triest,
Mrs. Willard)

Meyer, Dr. Fred G. (See Agriculture,
U.S. Department of)

Meyer, Louis F., Jr., Baltimore, Md.:
(Through Robert Vogel) silk kerchief
celebrating the virtues of William H.
Harrison, candidate for the Presidency
of the U.S., 1836-40 (235652).

Meyer, Dr. Teodoro (See Instituto
Miguel Lillo)

Meyrowitz, Alan L., Silver Spring,
Md.: Specimen of bayleyite (231914).

Miami, University of, Miami, Fla.:
(Through Raymond B. Manning) 16
shrimps, spiny lobster tail, and 17
crabs (230188, 230860, 283248, 235501) ;
(through Dr. Dennis R. Paulson) 2 bird
skins from Miami, Fla. (282488) ;
(through Dr. John EH. Randall) 40
gorgonians, 1 hydroid, 1 antipatharian,
9 corals, 2 lots of stomach contents, 2
isopods, 1 amphipod, and 1 crab claw
(229953, 284697, 285177) ; 4 fishes from
the Virgin Islands (235147, exchange) ;
(through Dr. C. Richard Robins) fish,
paratype, from the Atlantic Ocean near
Puerto Rico (233735) ; (through Dr. C.
Richard Robins and Dr. Bruce B. Col-
lette) fish from Florida collected by
William Bell 233523, exchange) ;
(through Walter A. Starck II) 38
gorgonians (2383888); (through Lowell
P. Thomas) 547 mysids and 3 isopods

229241).

(See Gorgas

C. R. (See Royal

U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1961

Michaud, Vivian, Washington, D.C.:
Grass parakeet (235779).

Michigan, University of, Ann Arbor,
Mich.: Lot of mollusks (235148); 78
phanerogams and 26 grasses from
Alaska and Canada (235618, ex-
change); (through Dr. William S.
Benninghoff) 100 microscope slides of
pollen (236107, exchange); (through
Dr. John B. Burch) 90 marine shells
from HEniwetok Atoll, Marshall Islands
(233806); (through Dr. Robert R.
Miller) 146 marine invertebrates
(231204).

Michigan State University, East
Lansing, Mich.: 25° ferns (231881,
233547) ; (through Dr. Irving W. Knob-
loch) 3 ferns (231035).

Midgley, Dr. H. G., Garston, Watford,
Herts., England: 2 lizardites from Ken-
nack Cove, England (231915).

Miles, Mrs. Alfred Hart, Charlottes-
ville, Va.: “Votes for Women” button
(234823).

Miles, Mrs. Arnold, Washington,
D.C.: 55 items of children’s clothing, 2
bottles, 2 pictures, 1 rug, coin, 3 items
of military memorabilia, household
utensils, and railway folders, ca. 1900
(232332).

Millen, T. R., Scranton, Pa.: Miner’s
respirator, 2 lamps, and an old Time
Book of the Lehigh Coal Co. (235962).

Miller, Dr. Arthur K., Iowa City,
Iowa: (Through Dr. W. M. Furnish)
218 brachiopods from the Permian and
Mississippian of Russia and the Delicias
area in Coahuila, Mexico (234590).

Miller, E. Gatlin, Studio City, Cailf.:
Set of drawing instruments (234128).

Miller, E. W. (See Fellows Gear
Shaper Co.)

Miller, Dr. George C. (See Interior
U.S. Department of the)

Miller, Gus (See Republican National
Committee)

Miller, Hal, Golden, Colo.: 3 geark-
sutites and uraninite from Colorado
(233521).

Miller, Dr. Mitchell H., Baltimore,
Md.: Gold leaf electroscope and charger
(232302).
DONORS TO THE NATIONAL COLLECTIONS

Miller, Robert, Arlington, Va.: Lance
of type used by Rush’s Lancers, 1861-
63 (2173842, exchange).

Miller, Dr. Robert R. (See Michigan,
University of)

Miller, Capt. Walter B., Point Mugu,
Calif.: 30 marine mollusks from the
Solomon and Cook Islands (231487).

Minerva Oil Co., Eldorado, IIL:
(Through I. V. Robertson and R. Dut-
ton) 4 fluorites from Crystal mine, Il-
linois (231681).

Ministerio de Agricultura y Cria,
Caracas, Venezuela: Instituto Botan-
ico: 261 phanerogams (230219, 231198,
231219, 231611, 232454, 233218); 23
phanerogams, including isotypes
(233763, 283764, exchanges) ; (through
Dr. Leandro Aristeguieta) 35 miscel-
laneous phanerogams and a_ (fern
(229561, 2380987, 234781); (through
Dr. Julian A. Steyermark) 5 phanero-
gams and 86 ferns from Venezuela
(232211).

Minnesota, University of, Minneapo-
lis Minn.: (Through Dr. Robert HE.
Sloan) 12 trilobites, holotypes and
paratypes, from the Franconia forma-
tion, Cambrian of Minnesota (235469).

Mishler, Clifford, Vandalia, Mich.: 7
medals commemorating Alaska and
Hawaii statehood, 1959 (233312).

Mississippi Game and Fish Commis-
sion, Hattiesburg, Miss.: (Through
Billy J. Grantham) 5 fresh-water mus-
sels from Mississippi (234843).

Missouri, University of, Columbia,
Mo.: (Through Dr. A. G. Unklesbay)
35 brachiopods from the Pennsylvanian
of Missouri (230939, exchange).

Missouri Botanical Garden, St. Louis,
Mo.: 22 phanerogams, 84 ferns, and 1
eryptogam from Panama and 44 orchids
from Ecuador (231395, 231771, 233544).

Mitchell, Clarence P. (See Brock,
Norman H.)

Mitchell, Will (See Allis-Chalmers
Manufacturing Co.)

Miyoshi, Kazuo, Hikari-Shi, Yama-
guchi-Ken, Japan: 326 miscellaneous in-
sects from Japan (232956).

Mohsin, Taqui, Karachi, Pakistan: 2
philatelic covers of Pakistan (234044).

157

Moncure, Mrs. Powhatan, Jr., Arling-
ton, Va.: Girl’s bicycle (236166).

Monnig, Oscar, Fort Worth, Tex.: 2
slices of the Moab, Utah, meteorite
(2313824).

Moned, Dr. Theodore (See Institut

Francais d’Afrique Noire)

Montenyohl, Mrs. V. I., Madison, N.J.:
Pair of crocheted wool slippers made by
Mrs. William McKinley (282788).

Montignani, Mrs. William C., St.
Petersburg, Fla.: Crimea medal with
original ribbon and bars inscribed Alma
and Sebastopol, also letter of award,
1857 (231826).

Montréal Botanical Garden, Mont-
réal, Canada: 3 cultivated phanerogams
(234075).

Moore, Charles E., Darlington, Pa.:
Road axe, pair of steel hames, spike
bar, “needle,” scraper, tamping bar, and
a pick head (285085).

Moore, Mrs. Earl E., St. Petersburg,
Fla.: Recollections of Forty Years in
the House, Senate, and Cabinet, auto-
biography by John Sherman, 2 vol.
(231049).

Moore, Dr. Harold E., Jr. (See Cor-
nell University)

Moore, Lee, Miami, Fla.: 10 phanero-
gams (233548, 233765, 234161).

Moore, Sewell P., Palisade, N.J.:
(Through Robert Collins) 27 British
Army buttons (235951).

Moore, Dr. Walter G., New Orleans,
La.: 192 fairy shrimps (230940).

Moorman, Lewis, Berkeley, Calif. :
Steel planchet of the type used for the
manufacture of U.S. cents for 1943
(233308).

Moran, W. E., Falls Church, Va.:
Labyrinthodont amphibian from the
Mississippian of West Virginia collected
by donor (234444).

Morrell, Junior, Arden, W. Va.:
(Through R. K. Bogert, Jr.) miner’s oil
lamp (234818).

Morrison, Mrs. Eleanor Goodnight,
Bethesda, Md.: Handkerchief, linen em-
broidered towel, and an unusual sam-
pler of 1802 (2338455).

Morrison, George A.
craft)

(See Turbo-
158

Morrison, Dr. J. P. E., Washington,
D.C.: 23 miscellaneous insects from
New Jersey and Virginia (225965).

Morrison, Dr. John T., Bethesda,
Md.: Washington-Bryan combination
picture post card from political cam-
paign of 1896 (231050).

Morrison, R. T., Jr., McClellanville,
S8.C.: 3 marine invertebrates (230920).

Morse Twist Drill and Machine Co.,
New Bedford, Mass.: (Through John
J. Hayes) 8 items of milling and mate-
rials testing equipment (2385987).

Mosler, Mrs. Linnie Kirk, Philadel-
phia, Pa.: 126 miscellaneous Naval
items (235045).

Moulton, Dr. James M., Brisbane,
Australia: 5 shrimps (232608).

Mountain, Dr. Edgar D., Grahams-
town, Rhodesia: Rhodesite and moun-
tainite from Bulfontein Mine, Kimber-
ley, S. Africa (231910).

Muesebeck, Dr. Carl F. W., Wash-
ington, D.C.: 32 miscellaneous foreign
covers bearing postage stamps (234194,
236150).

Muhlenberg College, Allentown, Pa.:
(Through Prof. R. A. Boyer) Geissler’s
vaporimeter (233667); (through Prof.
Robert L. Schaeffer, Jr.) 816 phanero-
gams, 152 grasses, and 19 ferns from
Pennsylvania and New Jersey (233680).

Muldoon, Charles P., Washington,
D.C.: Pair of porcelain Parula warblers
(233791).

Mullard Limited, London, England:
(Through L. A. Curry) replica of Flem-
ing’s Valve of 1904 (232229).

Mullmann, T. M. (See Banks, J. T.)

Muma, Dr. Martin, Lake Alfred, Fla.:
10 holotypes and 1 allotype of mites
from the U.S. (235817).

Mumford, L. Quincy (See Library of
Congress)

Mumford, Russell E., Lafayette, Ind.:
Mouse from Guatemala (232836). (See
also Purdue University)

Murakami, Dr. Yoshiteru, Ehime-ken,
Japan: 39 determined centipedes from
Japan (235806, exchange).

Murata, J. (See Interior, U.S. Depart-
ment of the)

Murch, Robert W., St. Louis, Mo.: 5
Philatelic covers bearing Society of

U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM

ANNUAL REPORT, 1961

Philatelic Americans’ Convention Sta-
tion markings, St. Louis, Mo., Aug. 19—
21, 1960 (233697).

Murchie, Dr. William R., Flint, Mich. :
4 earthworms, syntypes (232924).

Murdoch, Capt. Wallace, San Fran-
cisco, Calif. : 85 cockroaches from Japan
and Okinawa (234812).

Murphy, Larry B., McGaheysville,
Va.: Fragment of cuneiform tablet from
Rockingham Co., Va. (231487).

Murray, Mrs. Anne, Washington,
D.C.: French meter impression and
Belgian cover bearing stamp (234178).

Murray, Mrs. Charles McLean, Sr.,
Washington, D.C.: Slatted bonnet worn
in Virginia in the 20th century
(230780).

Murray, Dr. Grover E., Baton Rouge,
La.: 9 brachiopods from the Mississip-
pian of Ciudad Victoria in Tamaulipas,
Mexico (233270).

Murray, James C.
Steam-Ship Co., Ltd.)

Murrell, John H., Dallas, Tex.: 27
Silver and electrum Spanish-American
Mission Bars and Crosses (234168).

Musée Royal de l’Afrique Centrale,
Tervuren, Belgium: (Through Dr. P.
Basilewsky) 200 homoptera from Africa
(234141) ; (through Dr. Max Poll and
Frederick Berry) fish from the west
coast of Africa (231499, exchange).

Musée Royal d’Histoire Naturelle de
Belgique, Brussels, Belgium: (Through
Dr. J. Verbeke) 4 tachinid flies from the
Belgian Congo and Belgium (208581,

(See Cunard

exchange).
Museo Civico di Storia Naturale
“Giacomo Doria,” Genoa, Italy:

(Through Dr. Enrico Tortonese) 6
sharks from the Mediterranean Sea
(228669, exchange).

Museo de Ciencias Naturales, Ca-
racas, Venezuela: (Through Prof. J. M.
Cruxent) 24 chipped quartzite objects
from Fl Jobo, Faleén, . Venezuela
(235612).

Museo de Historia Natural, Monte-
video, Uruguay: 31 ferns from Uruguay
(232115, exchange).

Museo de Historia Natural “Javier
Prado,” Lima, Peru: 25 phanerogams
from Peru (284072); (through Dr.
DONORS TO THE NATIONAL COLLECTIONS

Ramén Ferreyra) 140 grasses from
Peru (227348).

Museo Ignacio Agramonte, Cama-
guey, Cuba: (Through Trinidad N. Pino
Triana) mounted skin of a Cuban Gar
(233337).

Museu Municipal do Funchal, Ma-
deira, Portugal: (Through Dr. G. HB.
Maul) frogfish (219788, exchange).

Museu Nacional, Rio de Janeiro,
Guanabara, Brazil: 291 phanerogams
(215681, 226105, 230842).

Museu Paraense Emilio Goeldi,
Belém, Brazil: 99 phanerogams (230811,
230856, 232248, 283294).

Museum d’Histoire Naturelle, Gen-
eva, Switzerland: (Through Dr. Her-
mann Gisin) 2 insects from Switzerland
(233525).

Muséum National d’Histoire Natu-
relle, Paris, France: 7,291 phanero-
gams, 138 grasses, and 357 ferns from
Asia and South America (231747, ex-
change) ; (through Prof. Roger Heim)
99 eryptogams from Hurope, Cameroons,
and Tahiti (229942, exchange).

Museum Zoologicum Universitatis,
Helsingfors, Finland: (Through Dr.
Walter Hackman) 2 flies, worldwide
(231926).

Myers, Mrs. George Hewitt, Wash-
ington, D.C.: Castleford urn (233834).

Myers, James F., Springfield, Va.:
Bluebird (235780).

Nagaty, Prof. H. F., Cairo, Egypt: 13
slides of trematode worms, including 9
paratypes (231168).

National Aeronautics and Space Ad-
ministration Grant, Smithsonian Insti-
tution: 458 tektites from Lee Co., Tex.,
and Czechoslovakia and 210 moldavites
from Czechoslovakia (231068, 232082,
233267, 233819).

National Fisheries Experiment Sta-
tion, Yung Do, Pusan, Korea: (Through
Bong Nai Lee) fish from Korea
(232168).

National Geographic Society—Smith-
sonian Expedition to Panama Fund:
Bark cloth dance costume of Guaymi
Indians, Panama (231209).

National Highway Post Office
Society, Gorham, Maine: (Through

159

Bruce Corey) 24 Highway Post Office
first day covers (231345).

National Museum, Manila, Republic
of the Philippines: 116 phanerogams,
23 grasses, and 1 eryptogam from the
Philippines (234078, exchange).

National Museum of Victoria, Mel-
bourne, Australia: (Through Dr.
Charles W. Brazenor) 21 minerals from
various localities (234947, exchange).

National Pony Express Centennial
Assoce., Salt Lake City, Utah: (Through
Waddell F. Smith) bronze medal issued
in commemoration of the Pony Express
Centennial (231638).

National Science Museum, The,
Tokyo, Japan: 163 phanerogams, 12
grasses, and 25 ferns (231036, ex-
change).

Natural Aquarium, Osaka, Japan:
(Through Dr. Chfichi Araga) 2 fishes
from Japan (234958).

Naturhistorisches Museum, Basel,
Switzerland: (Through Dr. H. Gasche)
36 brachiopods from the Cretaceous of
Switzerland (233269, exchange).

Naturhistorisches Museum, Bern,
Switzerland: (Through Dr. H. Adrian)
slice of 105-gram Utzenstorf, Switzer-
land, stone meteorite (234093, ex-
change).

Naturhistorisches Museum, Vienna,
Austria: (Through Dr. Max Fischer)
64 parasitic wasps from EHurope
(280615, exchange); (through Dr.
Rudolph Petrovitz) 30 scarab beetles
from Austria (234941, exchange).

Naturhistoriska Riksmuseet, Stock-
holm, Sweden: (Through Dr. Sten
Ahlner) 42 lichens (234163, exchange) ;
(through Dr. Olaf Gabrielson) blixite
from Sweden (230969, exchange).

Neal, Mrs. Paul A., Washington,
D.C.: Aquamarine pendant from Brazil
(232083).

Nebraska, State of: Division of Sani-
tation: (Through William F. Rapp,
Jr.) 49 fresh-water and land snails
from Nebraska (230984).

Needlecraft House, West Townsend,
Mass.: (Through Ralph E. Becker) Re-
publican and Democratic sewing kits
from the 1960 campaign (236129).
160

Nelson, Dr. G. H., Loma Linda,
Calif.: 26 Buprestid beetles from the
U.S. (281924, exchange).

Nerney, William A.
Krafters)

Netherlands, Government of, The
Hague: Netherlands Postal and Tele-
communications Services: 14 mint post-
age stamps of the Netherlands
(233567).

New, Todd, Denver, Colo.: Uranium
ore from Schwartzwalder Mine, near
Golden, Colo. (233516).

New England, University of, Armi-
dale, Australia: (Through Dr. K. S. W.
Campbell) 2 brachiopods from the
Carboniferous of New South Wales
(231891, exchange).

New England Hospital for Women
and Children, Boston, Mass.: (Through
Dorothea Schmidt) personal memor-
abilia of Linda Richards, America’s
first trained nurse (227740).

Newell, Dr. Norman D., New York,
N.Y.: 50 brachiopods from the Permian,
Spitzbergen, Norway (233740). (See
also American Museum of Natural
History)

Newman, Alfred E., St. Petersburg,
Fla.: 8 philatelic covers, Maury stamp
album of 1872, and miscellaneous mem-
orabilia (283771).

Newman, George H., Manila, Repub-
lic of the Philippines: 42 tektites from
the Philippines (231676).

Newman, Mrs. Helen B., Washington,
D.C.: 1,842 amphibians and reptiles
mostly from Virginia, collected by
donor’s son, including types and para-
types (234713).

Newman, William A,,
Calif.: 8 shrimps (233087).
California, University of)

Newport News Shipbuilding and Dry
Dock Co., Newport News, Va.: China
plate commemorating launching of
U.S.S. Hnterprise (234462).

New York Botanical Garden, New
York, N.Y.: 28 grasses from Venezuela
collected by J. J. Wurdack and L. 8. Ad-
derley and 768 phanerogams from vari-
ous localities (227849, 229055, 231031,
232111, 233540, 2351382, 236105, ex-

U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM

(See Knobby

Berkeley,
(See also

ANNUAL REPORT, 1961

changes); (through L. P. Politi) 51
cultivated ferns (229583).
Nichols, Prof. M. L.

University )

Nicholson, Donald J., Tuxedo, N.C.:
180 fresh-water snails from Bregg’s
Mill Falls, Wenderson Co., N.C.
(234449).

Nicholson, Paul C., Jr., (See Nicholson
Vile Co.)

Nicholson File Co., Providence, R.I.:
(Through Paul C. Nicholson, Jr.) early
file cutting machine (235972).

Nielsen, Mr. and Mrs. E. H., San
Diego, Calif.: 10 precanceled stamps
(233689).

Nimeskern, Sheila, Washington, D.C.:
Yellow-shafted flicker (231000).

Nimitz, Fleet Adm. Chester W., San
Francisco, Calif.: Pair of U.S. naval
officers’ shoulder boards worn by donor
(238560).

Nordstrom, Clarence G. (See Ansonia
Manufacturing Co.)

Norfolk Museum, Norfolk, Va.:
(Through Roger Rageot and William
EH. Old, Jr.) 2 fishes from lower
Chesapeake Bay (230915, exchange).

Norris, Mr. and Mrs. Francis A., Sil-

(See Cornell

ver Spring, Md.: 1904 typewriter
(235999) .
North, Dr. Alice Mary, Castine,

Maine: Oil portrait of Simeon North
(283228).

North, Dr. Wheeler J. (See Scripps
Institution of Oceanography )

North Carolina State College, Ra-
leigh, N.C.: 37 phanerogams, 2 grasses,
and 1 fern from Georgia and North
Carolina (233766, exchange).

North Dakota, University of, Grand
Forks, N. Dak.: (Through Dr. George
C. Wheeler) 9 land snails from North
Dakota (282988).

North Dakota Agricultural College,
Wargo, N. Dak.: 64 phanerogams, 28
grasses, and 2 ferns (282879, gift-ex-
change) ; (through Dr. R. L. Post) 4
vials and 2 slides, paratypes, of thrips
from North Dakota (235839, exchange).

Northfield Knife Co., Northfield,
Conn.: (Through Howard Gill) 8
devices for making pocket knives
(285990).
DONORS TO THE NATIONAL COLLECTIONS

Northwestern University, Evanston,
Til.: (Through Dr. J. Allen Hynek) 2
Hough registering barometers and a
telegraph register (2335738, 235070).

Norton Co. Worcester, Mass.:
(Through C. H. Quick and Dr. L. B.
Sands) calcite from San Sebastian
Mine, Charcas, Mexico (285918, ex-
change).

Norton Co. of Canada, Ltd., Quebec,
Canada: (Through H. A. Bradley)
erystolon (carborundum) (233825).

Norton, J. E., Manila, Republic of the
Philippines: 885 marine mollusks, 11
fishes, 10 insects, marine invertebrates,
and a snake from the Philippines
(234264).

Norway, Government of: Norwegian
Hmbassy: (Through Hlovius Mangor)
12 mint postage stamps of Norway
(232281, 235136, 235317).

Norweb, R. Henry, Cleveland, Ohio:
Hlizabeth IL gold sovereign, 1957, and
2 Colonial coins (231227, 232217).

Norweb, Hon. and Mrs. R. Henry,
Cleveland, Ohio: 5 gold coins issued in
Lima, Peru, 1960 (236062).

Ocheltree, Mrs. Anna Jennette (de-
ceased) : (Through John B. Ocheltree)
Greek embroidered table runner
(233456).

Ocheltree, John B. (See Ocheltree,
Mrs. Anna Jennette)

O’Connor, William E., Newark, N.J.:
Loudspeaker unit (232414).

Oglesby, Larry C., Berkeley, Calif.:
2 slides, types, of a trematode worm
taken from an annelid (232556).

Ohio State University, Columbus,
Ohio: 3 grasses from Ohio (233440).

Ohio Wesleyan University, Delaware,
Ohio: 95 phanerogams and 5 ferns from
Towa and Ohio (236115, exchange).

Oklahoma, University of, Norman,
Okla.: (Through Dr. Leon 8. Cierezko)
42 gorgonians (231669).

Oklahema State University, Still-
water, Okla.: 110 phanerogams and 4
grasses from Mexico (232880).

Old, William E., Jr., Norfolk, Va.: 457
miscellaneous marine mollusks and a
lot of barnacles (230600); 5 miscel-
laneous and 56 Japanese Occupation
postage stamps (234038). (See Also

161

Branham, Mrs. and Norfolk
Museum )
Oliver, Smith Hempstone, Washing-
ton, D.C.: Phonograph record (231053).
Olson, Lee, Cleveland, Ohio: Vertical

pair of 2¢ Jefferson, Deerfield, Ohio

Hugh;

local precancel stamps, one with
“OIHO” error and 27 miscellaneous
Ohio precanceled postage stamps

(232123, 234634).

Oman, Dr. P. W. (See Agriculture,
U.S. Department of)

Omwake, H. G., Delaware City, Del.:
(Through Mrs. Margaret Blaker) 42
sherds from Sussex Co., Del. (235915).

O’Neil, Mrs. Gilbert M. (See Ander-
son, Mr. and Mrs. Robbins Battell)

Ontario Department of Mines, To-
ronto, Canada: (Through Dr. W. D.
Hicks) 2 eucolites with eudyalite from
Ville Dieu Township, Quebec, Canada
(281020).

Opie, Ellsworth D., Washington,
D.C.: “Bull Moose” bandanna from the
campaign of 1912 (232213).

Orel, Jeannette V. (See Zoo-Line)

Orinoka Mills, The, New York, N.Y.:
(Through John V. Gurry) Jacquard
tapestry (231332).

Ortigas, Francisco, Jr., Manila, Re-
public of the Philippines: 28 tektites
from the Philippines (231674).

Osborn, Dr. Dale J., Lubbock, Tex.:
4 bats from Turkey (233930).

Osborne, Charles M. (See Card &
Osborne, Inc. )

Osborne, Mrs. Horace H., Washing-
ton, D.C.: Woman’s bedgown with cap
and pocket of the period 1830 (234896).

Ossining Public Schools, Ossining,
N.Y.: (Through Frederick J. Dock-
stader and Joseph L. Hendrick) Ha-
waiian and Marshallese fish hooks
(234588).

Ostdiek, Rev. Fr. John L., Quincy,
Ill.: 9 springtails from Laurel, Md.
(233286).

Ostroff, Daniel (See Ostroff, Robert)

Ostroff, Robert and Daniel, Washing-
ton, D.C.: Bird skin (232870).

Otis Elevator Co., New York N.Y.:
(Through Donald Shannon and Howard
Gotthardt) Otis passenger elevator, en-
gine, and freight platform (232978).
162

Over, Edwin (See Bearden, Dr. Alan
J.)

Overment, Alfred P. H. (See Jarvi,
T.)

Owen, John T., Estate of: (Through
Howard A. Holland) inlay Chinese
sereen of the 19th century and a grand-
father clock given in memory of donor’s
wife, Dorothy F. Owen (234409).

Oxford, University of, Oxford, Eng-
land: (Through Dr. L. Chalk) 185 wood
samples, 264 phanerogams, and 129
fluid-preserved plants (233685, ex-
change).

Pacific Marine Station, Dillon Beach,
Calif.; (Through Dr. Joel W. Hedg-
peth) 3 mollusks, including holotype
and paratypes, from Tomales Bay,
Marin Co., Calif. (235846).

Pagnotti, Louis J., Pittston, Pa.:
Lump of anthracite coal (231805).

Pallot, Mrs. Marion Slater, Gorey
District, Jersey, Channel Islands, Great
Britain: Coin and postage stamp of
Jersey and a postage stamp of Guernsey
(231197).

Palmer, Dr. A. R., Washington, D.C.:
Marine mollusk from Florida (234156).
(See also Interior, U.S. Department of
the)

Palmer, Charles W., Westtown, Pa.:
2 plants from Florida (231047).

Palmer, Harold C., Atlanta, Ga.: 2
models of 50 and 60 Palmer Cap-chur
long and short range syringe projectors
with accessories, and 8 automatic pro-
jectile syringes (231940).

Palynological Laboratory, Stockholm,
Sweden: (Through Prof. G. Hrdtman)
7 slides of wood pollen (231496, ex-
change).

Pan American Health Organization,
Washington, D.C.: (Through Dr. Os-
waldo J. da Silva) 47 mosquitoes from
Dominican Republic (285809).

Pan American International Oil
Corp., New York, N.Y.: (Through
Charles W. Hatten) 125 ammonites
from the Cretaceous of Nigeria
(230802).

Pan American Petroleum  Corp.,
Tulsa, Okla.: (Through Dr. Aureal T.
Cross) 112 slides of pollen (231745).

U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM

ANNUAL REPORT, 1961

Paperlynen Co., Columbus, Ohio:
(Through Ralph E. Becker) 20 sun
visors and hats from the 1960 presi-
dential campaign (234052).

Parker, Dr. Kittie F., Bethesda, Md.:
28 phanerogams from Mexico (234991).

Patent Button Co. Waterbury,
Conn.: (Through David Hart) 3 ma-
chines for attaching buttons to gar-
ments (235989).

Patrick, John, Berkeley, Calif.: 25
copper, germanium ores from Tsumeb,
Southwest, Africa (2384598) ; gold from
Nakase Mine, Honshu, Japan (234603) ;
7 minerals from various localities
(285451).

Paulson, Dr. Dennis R. (See Miami,
University of)

Pearce, Claude, Arlington, Va.: Wood
plane made by W. H. Pond, ca. 1870
(235941).

Pearson, F. M., Baltimore, Md.: 9
items of ‘“Kaffir’” beadwork and a snuff
box from Durban, Natal, S. Africa
(282150).

Pearson, James B., Topeka, Kans.: 4
bumper stickers, 2 buttons, and an en-
velope of pamphlets from the 1960
Kansas election (235932).

Pearson, Mrs. Louise (See Smithson-
ian Institution)

Pechuman, Dr. L. L., Lockport, N.Y.:
2 flies from Ontario, Canada (234659,
exchange).

Peck, Stow and Wilcox Co., Southing-
ton, Conn.: (Through F. L. Ashworth)
metal shear and single seamer (tin fab-
ricating machines) (285977).

Pecora, W. T., Washington, D.C.: 26
spessartite garnets and 1 morganite
from Brazil (233323, exchange).

Pedigo, Norman W., Richmond, Va.:
Burmese Buddha statue (232178).

Pelton, Mrs. John T., Washington,
D.C.: Inaugural ball dance program,
second administration of President
McKinley (233298).

Pefia, Louis E., Santiago, Chile: 7 but-
terflies from Chile (2384154).

Penn, Dr. George H., New Orleans,
La.: Crayfish, morphotype (280781).
(See also Hobbs, Dr. Horton H., Jr.)

Pennington, Campbell W., Austin,
Tex.: Grass from Mexico (231934).
DONORS TO THE NATIONAL COLLECTIONS

Pennsylvania, University of, Phila-
delphia, Pa.: 3 extra-illustrated sets of
the Bible, Scott, and Dickens originally
owned by B. B. Comegys (285648) ;
(through Dr. Edgar T. Wherry) 6
ferns, 1 phanerogam, and 6 grasses
(231034, 232052).

Pennsylvania State University, Uni-
versity Park, Pa.: (Through Dr. 8. W.
Frost) 9 miscellaneous beetles from
Florida (232039).

Perloff, Louis, Winston-Salem, N.C.:
2 kammererites from Turkey and valen-
tinite from France (232003, exchange) ;
12 minerals from Cherokee Co., Ala.,
and 10 strengite specimens from Indian
Mountain, Ala. (2338519, 234594).

Persha, Brian J., Great Falls, Mont.:
Infant’s silver toy (233509).

Peter, Mrs. Armistead, Jr., Washing-
ton, D.C.: Covered ceramic bowl and 3
Persian tiles (232874).

Peters, James V., North Charleston,
S.C.: 34 potsherds from Charleston
Co., 8.C., June 1960 (234799).

Petersen, Cornelius (See Post Office
Department)

Peterson, Dr. B. V., Guelph, Ontario,
Canada: 399 black flies from North
America, including holotypes, allotypes,
and paratypes (281009, 231215, 284010,
235827, 235837).

Peterson, James A. (See Shell Oil
Co.)

Peterson, Mendel, Washington, D.C.:
McKinley ‘gold bug” pin, 3 Naval Re-
serve Officer’s Training Corps metal
insignia of World War IJ, 4 tokens with
costume illustrations of the 19th cen-
tury, bronze medal of Dr. David Hosack
struck at the U.S. Mint, 109 ancient
coins and a gold bullion deposit, and 3
tradesman’s tokens (233303, 233841,
234520, 234835, 235066, 235997).

Peterson, R. S. (See Health, Educa-
tion, and Welfare, U.S. Department of)

Petrovitz, Dr. Rudolph (See Natur-
historisches Museum)

Pettibone, Dr. Marian H. (See Gray,
Milton B.)

Peyton, Bernard, Princeton, N.J.:
13,502 Peruvian stamps, covers, proofs,
essays, color trials, also unmounted ma-

163

terial in envelopes, associated philatelic
material, and miscellaneous unmounted
items (283750).

Pflueger, Al, North Miami, Fla.: 6
easts of fishes (226265).

Pharmaceuticals, Inc. New York,
N.Y.: (Through James H. Fitzgerald)
2 copper soap-making kettles (235986).

Phelan, Sgt. Thomas F., MacDill
A.F.B., Fla.: 45 echinoids and 7%
Foraminifera from the Tertiary of
Florida (231893).

Phelps, Dr. William H., Caracas,
Venezuela: Bird skin (233678).

Philip, Dr. Cornelius B., Hamilton,
Mont.: 56 mosquitoes from Missouri
(234609).

Philip, Mrs. Hoffman, Santa Barbara,
Calif.: Gun, 4 pistols, 6 knives and
swords in sheaths, ceramic statuette,
silver buckle, and an Albanian knife
(231888). 4

Pierce, Dr. E. Lowe, Gainesville, Fla.:
10 crustaceans, 23 mollusks, and 2 lots
of corals (232550).

Pierce, Lt. John R., Annapolis, Md.:
Envelope addressed to Mrs. John R.
Pierce and canceled aboard the U.S.S.
John R. Pierce from Hnsign J. T. Pierce
(234041).

Pietsch, W. Randolph, Washington,
D.C.: Silk banner from the Allied Ba-
zaar held in Chicago in 1918 (232885).

Pino Triana, Trinidad N. (See Museo
Ignacio Agramonte)

Pinson, William H., Cambridge,
Mass. : Tektite from Martha’s Vineyard,
Mass. (234702, exchange).

Pitt, Robert W., Bradenton, Fla.: 141
precanceled stamps of Florida and 9
British West Indies covers (235661).

Plumpton, Mrs. V. W., Washington,
D.C.: Half section of a double-woven
Jacquard coverlet, 1849 (232964).

Plyler, Thomas, Statesville, N.C.:
Musecovite from Alexander Co., N.C.,
and amethystine quartz (231026).

Pocock, Alfred E., Oxford, Ohio.: 35
envelopes bearing American college cor-
ner inscriptions (231493).

Poggie, John J., Jr., Baton Rouge,
La. : 23 phanerogams and 6 grasses from
Mexico (232342, 234698).
164

Poland, Government of, Warsaw:
(Through ARS Polona) 74 mint postage
stamps and meter impressions of Poland
(233695, 2386161). Polish Embassy:
(Through Dr. Adam Bonarski) 4
stamps honoring the Centennial of
Ignacy Paderewski’s birth (234638).

Politi, L. P. (See New York Botani-
cal Garden)

Poll, Dr. Max (See Musée Royal de
VAfrigque Centrale)

Pollak, Mrs. Virginia Morris, New
York, N.Y.: Wooden statute of an ibis
from Egypt and carved wooden eagle
and stand, added to Arther Morris col-
lection (233673, 285945).

Pollard, Mrs. W. H., Portland, Oreg.:
Presidential campaign button with pic-
tures of William McKinley and Theo-
dore Roosevelt, 1900 (231119).

Polska Akademia Nauk, Lubicz, Cra-
cow, Poland: 108 phanerogams, 3 grass-
es, and 2 ferns from Poland (231455,
exchange).

Porter, Lenore E., New York, N.Y.:
(Through Ralph E. Becker and India &
Holy Land Crafts) 61 pins and scarves
from the Republican 1956 and 1960
campaigns (2386123).

Porter, Ralph C., Arlington, Va.: Ban-
danna with inscriptions “Roosevelt”
and “Johnson” (235927).

Portobello Marine Biological Station,
Portobello, New Zealand: (Through
Dr. Cadet Hand) 6 sea anemones, para-
types (231642).

Post, Dr. R. L. (See North Dakota
Agricultural College)

Post Office Department, Washington,
D.C. : 2 dolls (2321938, 234618) ; (through
Greever Allan) 884 mint foreign post-
age stamps and souvenir sheets per
U.P.U. Bulletin Nos. 10 and 11, 1960
(2313865) ; 3859 foreign mint postage
stamps and a souvenir sheet per U.P.U.
Bulletin No. 14, July 26, 1960 (232245) ;
203 foreign mint postage stamps per
U.P.U. Bulletin No. 18, Sept. 23, 1960
(232899); 277 foreign mint postage
stamps per U.P.U. Bull. No. 20-IV,
Oct. 25, 1960, and a Canal Zone stamp
of 4-cents per letter, Feb. 10, 1961
(234545) ; 223 mint foreign postage
stamps and 2 souvenir sheets per U.P.U.

U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1961

Bull. No. 25-IV, Dec. 27, 1960, 365 mint
foreign postage stamps, 9 souvenir
sheets, and 4 meter impressions per
U.P.U. Bull. No. 2-IV, Jan. 27, 1961
(235191) ; (through Cornelius Petersen)
248 mint foreign postage stamps per
U.P.U. Bull. No. 8, Apr. 22, 1960
(230818) ; postage meter and 361 mint
postage stamps and souvenir sheets, per
U.P.U. Bull. No. 16, Aug. 23, 1960
(232375) ; 368 mint foreign postage
stamps per U.P.U. Bull. No. IV, Feb. 24,
1961 (235423). 4

Pough, Fred, New York, N.Y.: 3 min-
erals from Spain (235449).

Powell, Guy C. (See Alaska Depart-
ment of Fish and Game)

Powell, Jerry A. (See California,
University of)

Pratt, Dr. Harry D. (See Health,
Education, and Welfare, U.S. Depart-
ment of )

Pratt, Dr. John J., Jr. (See Defense,
U.S. Department of)

Pray, Mrs. Helen Canterbury, De
Bary, Fla.: 20 hand-wrought rugs
(232557).

Prentice, G. E.. Mfg. Co. (See G. E.
Prentice Mfg. Co.)

Price, Dale, Cambridge, Md.: Persian
helmet (235567).

Price, Dougias W., Davis, Calif.: 4
insects, including topotypes, from Cali-
fornia (234018, 234152).

Princeton University, Princeton,
N.J.: (Through Dr. Erling Dorf) 2
plants from the Devonian of Canada
and Wyoming (231892, exchange) ;
(through Dean Howard Menand) col-
lection of antique electrical equipment
(232729) ; (through Dr. S. K. Roberts)
8 crustaceans (232299); (through Dr.
A. G. Shenstone) 8 pieces of antique
electrical equipment (232728).

Proctor, George R. (See Institute of
Jamaica)

Progressive Manufacturing Co., Tor-
rington, Conn.: (Through William H.

Herpich) 3 screw-making tools
(235981).

Provincial Museum, Victoria, B.C.,
Canada: (Through Dr. Adam fF.

Szezawinski) 18 lichens collected by Dr.
Szezawinski (231523).
DONORS TO THE NATIONAL COLLECTIONS

Pschorn-Walcher, Dr. H., Delemont,
Switzerland: 32 parasitic wasps from
Central Hurope (235015).

Puerto Rico, University of, Mayaguez,
Puerto Rico: (Through Dr. Virgilio
Biaggi, Jr.) collared turtle-dove
(230995) .

Purdue University, Lafayette, Ind.:
(Through Russell EH. Mumford) 146
small mammals from Indiana (283221).

Quate, Dr. L. W., Honolulu, Hawaii:
3 moth flies, including holotypes, from
Nebraska and Wisconsin (234028).

Queensland, University of, Brisbane,
Australia: (Through Dr. W. G. H. Max-
well) 7 brachiopods from Queensland
(231014, exchange).

Queensland Institute of Medical Re-
search, Brisbane, Australia: (Through
R. Domrow) 2 mites, paratypes
(230889) .

Quick, C. H. (See Norton Co.)

Quie, Mrs. Albert, Silver Spring, Md.:
Harrison-Morton political campaign
bandanna (230858).

R. B. Associates, Los Angeles, Calif. :
(Through Ralph H. Becker) 4 “travel-
trash baskets” for the Republican 1960
elections (236127).

Radio Corporation of America, Cam-
den, N.J.: 3 Victor talking machines
(231954).

Radovsky, Frank J., Berkeley, Calif. :
38 slides of parasitic mites from Cali-
fornia (232030).

Rageot, Roger (See Norfolk
seum )

Rancho Santa Ana Botanic Garden,
Claremont, Calif.: 129 phanerogams
from tthe Pacific Coast and Mexico
(233541, 284620, exchanges) ; (through
Dr. Sherwin Carlquist) 100 microscope
slides of wood (285632, exchange).

Rand Corp., Santa Monica, Calif.:
(Through Keith Uncapher) 2 electro-
Statie storage electron tubes (234833).

Randall, James P., Fort Lauderdale,
Fla.: German medal (232969).

Randall, Dr. John E., Miami, Fla. : 50
fishes, 3 shrimp, and 19 sea anemones
from various localities (230728, 231413,
231644, 232012, 232018, 2382231, 232486).
(See also Miami, University of; and
Virgin Islands National Park)

Mu-

165

Ransford, James A. (See Tidewater
Oil Co.)

Rapp, Andrew, Morton, IIL:
(Through Ralph E. Becker) 15 pottery
items from the 1960 presidential cam-
paign (284165).

-Rapp, William F., Jr. (See Nebraska,
State of)

Rasetti, Dr. Franco, Baltimore, Md.:
200 trilobites from the Upper Cam-
brian of Tennessee (235381).

Rathjen, Warren F. (See Interior,
U.S. Department of the)

Rausch, Dr. Robert (See Health, Hd-
ucation, and Welfare, U.S. Department
of )

Rawls, John L., Vienna, Va.: U.S.
naval hatchet of 1870-80 (231417).

Rawson, Dr. G. W., New Smyrna
Beach, Fla.: 8 flies and 12 moths from
Florida (235888).

Raymond, Mrs. Olga E., New York,
N.Y.: 793 modern coins of the world
(234049).

Read, Rear Adm. Albert C., Washing-
ton, D.C.: Navy wrist watch worn by
donor on the flight of the NC—4 to Hu-
rope, 1919, and a silver plane model
(233568).

Reddiah, Dr. K., Port Erin, Isle of
Man, Great Britain: 22 copepods, para-
types (233451).

Redfearn, Paul L., Jr., Springfield,
Mo.: 70 bryophytes (231816, exchange).

Redman, Mrs. A. R., Long Beach,
Calif.: Photograph of the survivors of
the Greeley Expedition, 1886 (282883).

Reed, A. Bradford (See Reed Rolled
Thread Die Co.)

Reed, Dr. Clyde (See Elgert, Gerald)

Reed, Richard KE. (See Maine Sardine
Council)

Reed, Dr. T. H. (See Smithsonian In-
stitution )

Reed Rolled Thread Die Co., Holden,
Mass.: (Through A. Bradford Reed)
38-roll machine for rolling threads on
tubular sections (235991).

Reese, Ernst 8S. (See California, Uni-
versity of)

Reese, Dr. William D. (See Uni-
versity of Southwestern Louisiana)

Rehder, Dr. Harald A., Washington,
D.C.: 35 marine and fresh-water mol-
166

lusks from Baja California, California,
and New York (234006).

Reid, A. W., Franklin, N.C.: Rhodo-
lite from Franklin, N.C. (233675).

Reid, Irving (See W. W. Cross & Co.)

Reifsnider, Bertha, Hudson, Ohio:
Masonic sword, scabbard, and part of
a nine snowball overshot coverlet
(280504).

Reig, Dr. Osvaldo A. (See Univer-
sidad Nacional de Tucuman)

Reinbothe, Lt. Col. Alfred H., Floral
Park, L.I., N.Y.: 1896 political cam-
paign badge (231051).

Reiser, Hillard N. (See Interior, U.S.
Department of the)

Renfro, Mrs. Ruby F., Estate of:
(Through Oliver W. Fannin, Jr.)
50,000 fossils from the Pennsylvanian,
Permian, and Cretaceous of north cen-
tral Texas, also from Hurope (226024).

Renfroe, Charles A., Eureka Springs,
Ark.: 300 invertebrate fossils from
Eureka Springs quadrangle, Middle
Devonian of Arkansas (232300).

Republic of Guinea, Government of,
Conakry: (Through L’Agence Phila-
telique de la Republique de Guinea)
first day cover bearing 5 stamps com-
memorating the Olympic Games, Rome,
1960 (233030).

Republican National Committee,
Washington, D.C.: (Through Gus
Miller) collection of material from the
Republican campaign of 1960 (235650).

Republican State Headquarters, Co-
lumbus, Ohio: 18 Republican buttons
and literature of the 1960 campaign
(236186).

Rettenmeyer, Carl W., Lawrence,
Kans. : 522 parasitic flles from Panama
(231008). (See also Kansas, Univer-
sity of)

Reynolds, W. H., Sr., Silver Spring,
Md.: 7 pieces of materials testing equip-
ment (235635).

Rhymer, Daniel I., Washington, D.C.:
17 mammals from Tennessee and Vir-
ginia (235788).

Richards, Dr. O. W. (See Imperial Col-
lege of Science and Technology)

Richards, Mrs. Sarah Trone (de-
ceased) : (Through Mrs. L. BH. Delaney)

U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1961

wooden doll
(2381368).

Richmond, Adm. A. C. (See Treasury,
U.S. Department of the)

Richmond, Ben, Silver Spring, Md.:
Doll carriage (234615).

Riggin, Prof. G. T., Jr., Greenville,
S.C.: Holotype of trematode worm
(232981).

Riggins, Mrs. Maurice Rush, Delray
Beach, Fla.: Benjamin Harrison cam-
paign bandanna, given in memory of
Andrew E. Rush (231222).

Rijksmuseum van Natuurlijke His-
torie, Leiden, Netherlands: (Through
Dr. A. Diakonoff) paratype of moth
from Java (284091, exchange) ;
(through Dr. L. B. Holthuis) 55 crus-
taceans (2382627); 400 isopods and 2
scyllarids (234761, exchange) ; through
Dr. J. van der Vecht) 18 wasps from the
Old World (231923, exchange) ;
(through Dr. C. O. van Regteren Al-
tena) 4 fresh-water mollusks from Java
(234905, exchange).

Rike, Arthur, Grand Forks, N. Dak.:
Indian skeleton from Grand Forks Co.,
Grand Forks, N. Dak. (2385614).

Ring, Bernard, Brooklyn, N.Y.: 3 first
day covers of Francis Scott Key stamp
with Convention Station cancellations
(233029).

Rioult, Dr. M., Caen, Calvados,
France: 6 brachiopods from the Meso-
zoic of France (2384440, exchange).

Risk, James, New York, N.Y.: British
Crown and medal commemorating the
British Exhibition in New York, 1960
(231489).

Risso, Dr. Francisco J. J., Resistencia,
Argentina: 6 fishes from the Paranda
River, Argentina (230983).

Ritcher, Dr. Paul O., Corvallis, Oreg. :
32 scarab beetles from Texas (282016).

Roback, Dr. Selwyn S. (See Academy
of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia)

Robb, Francie, Ann Arbor, Mich.: 6
mint postage stamps of Persia (235367).

Roberts, Mrs. Alfred, Baltimore, Md. :
Settee, 2 arm chairs, and piano bench
of Louis XV style, and a French boule
clock (234164).

Roberts, Frank H. H. (See Smith-
sonian Institution)

of the 19th century
DONORS TO THE NATIONAL COLLECTIONS

Roberts, Dr. S. K., Princeton, N.J.:
Marine mollusk from off St. Davids,
Bermuda (232572). (See also Prince-
ton University)

Robertson, I. V.
Co.)

Robertson, Dr. Robert (See Academy
of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia)

Robertson, Dr. William B., Jr. (See
Interior, U.S. Department of the)

Robeson, Harry, Frostburg, Md.: 50
land snails from Maryland (2382508).

Robins, Dr. C. Richard (See Interior,
U.S. Department of the; and Miami,
University of)

Robinson, D. M., Namulonge, Uganda:
Paratype of parasitic wasp (232101).

Robinson, M. W. (See M. W. Robin-
son Co., Inc.)

Rocca Fund 201 C-49, Smithsonian
Institution: Twin crystal of chryso-
beryl from Minas Gerais, Brazil
(235923) ; wulfenite from Glove Mine,
near Tucson, Ariz. (235924).

Rochester, University of, Rochester,
N.Y.: (Through Prof. H. R. Childs)
electrodynamometer (234832).

Rockefeller Foundation, Mexico,
D.F.: (Through Ing. José Luis Carrillo)
38 insects from North America (232040,
exchange).

Rockwell Manufacturing Co., James-
town, N.Y.: (Through Raymond C.
Anderson) 2 voting machines (227298).

Rodgers, Alston (See General Electric
Co.)

Rodin, Dr. Robert J., Ithaca, N.Y.: 24
miscroscope slides of wood (235629).

Rodrigues, Dr. William A. (See In-
stituto Nacional de Pesquisas da
Amazonia)

Roebling Fund, Smithsonian Institu-
tion: 152 minerals from the U.S.
(229782, 231019, 231027, 231407, 231685,
231686, 231687, 231690, 231903, 232085,
232868, 232948, 232949, 2330738, 233656,
2344387, 234489, 235460, 235922); 999
minerals from foreign localities
(230759, 230797, 230803, 231719, 232628,
232736, 233826, 234034, 234135, 234562,
234859, 235000, 235315, 235447, 235450,
235458, 235459, 235880) ; 440 minerals
from various foreign and U.S. localities

(See Minerva Oil

167

(280227, 230338, 280689, 231497, 232071,
232084, 232324, 232491, 232854, 233676,
233820, 284035, 234036, 234037, 234435,
234584, 234731, 234877, 235878, 235879,
235921).

Roepke, Harlan H., Silver Spring,
Md.: 6 minerals from various localities
(231021).

Rogers, Charles H., Princeton, N.J.:
5 birds (235677, exchange).

Rogers, Dr. Fred B., Philadelphia,
Pa.: Pewter syringe with wooden
plunger (234650).

Rohrer, Josephine A., Washington,
D.C.: Parian pitcher of the 19th
century (235957).

Rojas Poblete, Sergio (See Estacion
Nacional de Entomologia)

Romero, R., North Attleboro, Mass.:
(Through Ralph HE. Becker) 38 pieces
of jewelry from the 1960 presidential
campaign (236125).

Romisch-Germanisches Museum, Co-
logne, Germany: Replica of a Roman
foot rule (235399).

Roosevelt, Cornelius Van Schaack,
Washington, D.C.: High relief 1907
U.S. 20-dollar gold piece given to Pres-
ident Theodore Roosevelt by Augustus
Saint-Gaudens (235653); 4 sample
coins struck in Formosa by the Central
Mint of China, 1949 (236060).

Roosevelt, Jonathan, Cambridge,
Mass. : 5 mammals from Kenya Colony,
Africa (232844).

Rosales, Dr. Carlos J. (See Universi-
dad Central de Venezuela)

Rosenwald, Lessing J., Jenkintown,
Pa.: Astrolabe, ca. 1825 (232129).

Ross, Anthony, Tucson, Ariz.: 4 flies
from Arizona (232017).

Ross, Dr. H. H. (See Illinois State
Natural History Survey Division)

Ross, Dr. Robert D., Blacksburg,
Va.: Disassociated dorsal armor and
ventral plates of a fossil fish from the
Upper Devonian of Chenango Co., N.Y.
(210099).

Rosso, Sam, Centreville, Miss.: 303
land and fresh-water mollusks from
Mississippi (215353).

Rosson, E. Watkins, Alexandria,
Va.: Portobello ware pitcher (235046).
168 U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM

Rothert, Matt H., Camden, Ark.: 5-
dollar note issued in 1830 by the Bank
of the U.S. (282475).

Rothschild, Louis S. Washington,
D.C.; Jewish prayer book bag (235938).

Rowell, Dr. A. J., Ilkeston, Derby-
shire, England: 74 brachiopods from
the Paleozoic and Mesozoic of Great
Britain (235006, exchange).

Royal Botanic Garden, Edinburgh,
Scotland: 2,895 phanerogams collected
in Asia by George Forrest (2380718, ex-
change).

Royal Botanic Gardens, Kew, Surrey,
England: 1 grass from Ghana
(232114) ; 85 phanerogams, 346 grasses
and 93 ferns (233542, 233556, 234805,
236112, exchanges) ; 2 photographs of
phanerogams, types (2356238, ex-
change) ; (through Dr. C. R. Metcalfe)
14 wood samples (2383684, exchange).

Royal Botanic Gardens and National
Herbarium, Sydney, Australia:
(Through Mary Tindale) fern from
Australia (232876); 74 phanerogams
and 9 ferns from Australia (234987,
exchange).

Royal Swedish Museum of Natural
History, Stockholm, Sweden: (Through
Dr. K.-J. Heqvist) 20 chalcid flies from
Canada and the U.S. (284728, ex-
change).

Royalty, Mrs. Frank, Santa Paula,
Calif.: Watch (226848).

Rozanski, Dr. Edward C., Chicago,
Iil.: Mounted portrait of Ignacy Jan
Paderewski franked with 4- and 8-cent
U.S. Paderewski stamps with first-day
eancellation (233696).

Rozen, Dr. J. G., Jr. (See American
Museum of Natural History)

Ruckes, Dr. H., Sr.. New York, N.Y.:
2 stink bugs, neotropical and nearctic
(231412).

Ruckle, Verlin, Loveland, Colo.: 111
Colorado precanceled stamps (231492,
232122).

Rudnick, Albert, San Francisco,
Calif.: 16 mites, types (199979).

Ruffner, Mrs. Clarence M. (See
Ruffner, 1st Lt. Monroe Stephens)

Ruffner, 1st Lt. Monroe Stephens,
New York, N.Y.: (Through Mrs. Clar-
ence M. Ruffner) 30 U.S. Marine Corps

ANNUAL REPORT, 1961

dress uniforms and accessories worn
by donor’s father (232773).

Ruhoff, Theodore B., Washington,
D.C.: 297 miscellaneous U.S. and for-
eign stamps, covers, postal labels, and
4 coins and 2 bills (234174, 235995,
236154).

Rundin, John A., Pawtucket, R.I.: 2
oil paintings of the Revenue Cutter
Levy Woodbury (231418).

Russell, John Julian, Alexandria, Va.:
German incendiary bomb and an Hng-
lish poster from World War I
(232064) .

Russell, W. J. (See S. S. White
Dental Manufacturing Co.)

Ruth, D. H. (See Landis Tool Co.)

Ryan, James T., Jr., Washington,
D.C.: 38-dollar New Orleans railroad
scrip and 11 obsolete 2-dollar bills is-
sued by the State of North Carolina
(232968) ; 18 obsolete notes (233310) ;
26 miscellaneous U.S. and foreign cov-
ers and 70 U.S. “perfin’ stamps
(234199, 236151) ; 2 Virginia Treasury
1-dollar notes issued July 21 and Octo-
ber 21, 1862 (235061).

Ryckman, Dr. R. E., Loma Linda,
Calif.: 183 bird bedbugs, allotypes, holo-
types, and paratypes (233225).

S. S. White Dental Manufacturing
Co., Philadelphia, Pa.: (Through W.
J. Russell) 98 dental instruments and
appliances (232230).

Sabrosky, C. W., Washington, D.C.:
5 picture-wing flies, including holotypes
and allotypes, from North America
(235886) .

Sagle, L. W. (See Baltimore and
Ohio Railroad Co.)

Sailer, Dr. R. I.
U.S. Department of)

St. John, Dr. Fordyce B. (See Eclat
Club, The)

Sakagami, Dr. Sh. F.
University )

Sakimura, K., Honolulu, Hawaii: 100
thrips from Hawaii (235016, exchange).

Salem Tool Co. Salem, Ohio:
(Through J. H. Wilson) mining tools
and equipment, collection of catalogs,
price lists, advertisements and other
data on mining industry (233577).

(See Agriculture,

(See Hokkaido
DONORS TO THE NATIONAL COLLECTIONS

Sampaio d’Orey, Dr. José Diogo
(See Jardim e Museu Agricola do
Ultramar)

Sanders, Mrs. Louis P., Butte, Mont. :
Spanish Coat of Arms (232372).

Sands, Frederic P. (See Grace Line
Ine.)

Sands, Dr. L. B. (See Norton Co.)

Sane, S. R., Bombay, India: 8 fishes
from India (285202)

San Fernando Lodge No. 365, I.0.0.F.,
San Fernando, Calif.: (Through Wiley
S. Ball) Gunter’s scale (282132).

Sangster, Jane E., Montreal, Canada:
Milk snake from Boyds, Md. collected
by donor, also 200 mollusks from Mary-
land (233241).

Sapporo Medical College, Sapporo,
Hokkaido, Japan, and Zoller Memorial
Dental Clinic, Chicago, Ill.: (Through
Dr. Kazuro Hanihara) 9 models of
classifying crown characters of human
deciduous teeth (283813).

Sartenaer, Dr. Paul, Ottawa, Canada:
14 brachiopods, including types, from
the Devonian of New York (231451).

Sarycheva, Prof. Sh. I. (See Academy
of Sciences of the U.S.S.R.)

Sauer, Jules Roger, New York, N.Y.:
Rutilated quartz from Brazil (231913).

Saul, Hyman, New York, N.Y.: 373
invertebrate fossils from the Devonian
of Ghana (235461).

Sauters, J. D., Martins Ferry, Ohio:
38 miner’s oil lamps (235038).

Savage, Mrs. Charles C. (See Sling-
luff, Kathleen Dickinson Kernan, Hs-
tate of)

Scanlon, Lt. J. E., Washington, D.C.:
69 miscellaneous insects from Japan
(235812).

Scattergood, Dr.
Verhoeff, Roger)

Schaeffer, Prof. Robert L., Jr. (See
Muhlenberg College)

Scheele, Carl H., Washington, D.C.:
Philatelic cover bearing Cincinnati Ex-
hibition Station cancellation (234178).

Schiller, Dr. Everett L. (See Johns
Hopkins University)

Schlinger, Dr. Evert I. (See Cali-
fornia, University of)

Leslie W. (See

169

Schmidt, Dorothea (See New England
Hospital for Women and Children)

Schmidt, Rear Adm. J. W., Media,
Pa.: Oil painting of H.M.S. Centurion
(234064).

Schneider, Henry J., Washington,
D.C.: Cedar waxwing (230998).

Scholl, Robert H. (See M. W. Kellogg
Co., and Esso Standard)

Schuh, Joe, Klamath Falls, Oreg.: 30
scarab beetles from Oregon (234142).

Schwartz, Dr. Frank J. (See Chesa-
peake Biological Laboratory)

Schwartz, R. F., Solomons, Md.: 1
Kohn’s turtle from Jones Point, near
Lower Marlboro, Md. (230982).

Schweizer, Bert, III, and Schweizer,
Thomas Wolff, St. Louis, Mo.: U.S.
Army blanket used during the Spanish
American War period (233305).

Schweizer, Thomas Wolff (See
Schweizer, Bert, III)
Schwengel, Gen. Frank R. (See

Schwengel, Dr. Jeanne S.)

Schwengel, Dr. Jeanne S. (deceased) :
(Through Gen. Frank R. Schwengel)
13 marine mollusks from Florida and
Australia, including 3 new species, also
18 mollusks from the Pliocene of
Florida (234220).

Science Museum, London, England:
(Through G. R. M. Garratt) Round’s
electron tube (232228).

Scott, Mrs. Adele
Samuel Hastman)

Scott, Ernest, and Co., Inc.
Ernest Scott and Co., Inc.)

Scott, Katherine Kirkwood, Milledge-
ville, Ga.: Calash and dress of the 18th
and 19th centuries (232298).

Scott, W. C., Gunnison, Colo.:
Liebigite from Pitch Mine, Saguache
Co., Colo. (233515)

(See Kimball,

(See

Scott Williams Mineral Co., Inc.,
Scottsdale, Ariz.: 8 pascoites from
Ambrosia Lake District, N. Mex.
(233945).

Scovill Manufacturing Co., Water-
bury, Conn.: (Through §8. T. Williams)
2 attaching machines and a box of tools
(235966).
NATIONAL MUSEUM

170 U.S.

Scripps Institution of Oceanography,
La Jolla, Calif.;: 29 phanerogams
(284567) ; (through Dr. Thomas HE.
Bowman) 54,480 amphipods (283989) ;
(through Dr. Abraham Fleminger) 32
crustaceans (232485); (through Dr.
Ariel Gallardo) 384 crustaceans
(230593) ; (through Dr. Carl L. Hubbs)
52 shrimps (229324); (through Dr.
Martin W. Johnson) 12 copepods, in-
cluding holotypes, allotypes, and para-
types (2329387); (through Dr. W. L.
Klawe) 16 miscellaneous phanerogams
(235159) ; (through Dr. Wheeler J.
North) 2 shrimps (280985).

Scudder, Dr. H. I., Bethesda, Md.: 2
wasps from local area (231411).

Sea Fisheries Research Station, The,
Haifa, Israel: (Through Adam Ben-
Tuvia and Dr. Daniel M. Cohen) 3
fishes from the eastern Mediterranean
(282878).

Seibel, Lawrence, Washington, D.C.:
Portrait medallion of Benjamin Frank-
lin, 1777 (282426).

Seidel, Alvim, Corupd, Santa Cata-
rina, Brazil: 6 phanerogams from Bra-
zil (288557).

Selander, Dr. R. B.
University of)

Semple, Arthur T., Turrialba, Costa
Rica: 27 ethnological objects, 4 wooden
dippers, and pot from South America
and Africa (231211).

Senckenbergische Naturforschende
Gesellschaft, Frankfurt, Germany:
(Through Dr. Wolfgang Klausewitz)
38 fishes from the Indo-Pacific (231882,
exchange) ; (through Dr. Otto Kraus)
millipede, paratype, from Hl Salvador
(232042, exchange).

Sentkoski, Clement, Mount Carmel,
Pa.: (Through John Howell) miner’s
lunch pail (234817).

Service, Charles, Sarasota, Fla.: 2
quartz crystals from North Carolina
and agatized coral from Tampa Bay,
Fla. (233520, 235920).

Setzer, Dr. Henry W., Washington,
D.C.: 7 U.S. and foreign meter impres-
sions (234172).

Seymour, Dr. Frank C., Dighton,
Mass.: 45 phanerogams and 84 grasses
(216241).

(See Illinois,

ANNUAL REPORT, 1961

Shafer, Francis A., Cleveland, Ohio:
695 Irish postage stamps, covers, and
essays (2382974).

Shannon, Donald (See Otis Elevator
Co.)

Shaw, Alan B. (See Shell Oil Co.)

Shaw, Dr. Frank R., Amherst, Mass.:
4 flies from Hawaii (232190).

Shearer, Howard E. (See Keystone
Lamp Manufacturing Corp.)

Shell Oil Co. Denver, Colo.:
(Through Alan B. Shaw) 17 fossil
brachiopods from the Mississippian
Madison limestone of Montana
(233453).

Shell Oil Co., Farmington, N. Mex.:
(Through James A. Peterson) 9 inver-
tebrate fossils from Ignacio formation,
San Juan Mountains of Colorado
(233428).

Shelton Tack Co., Shelton, Conn.:
(Through Herbert Holland) tack ma-
chine (235979).

Shenstone, Dr. A. G. (See Princeton
University)

Shepard, Dr. Harold H., Arlington,
Va.: 505 skippers from Africa, Asia,
and North and South America (235835).

Shewell, Dr. G. E., Ottawa, Canada:
80 flies from Canada and North Amer-
ica (283149). (See also Canada, Gov-
ernment of)

Shidler, Dr. Jon K. (See Game and
Fish Commission of Texas)

Shimaji, Dr. Ken (See Institute of
Forest Botany; and Tokyo, University

of)

Shimoda Marine Biological Station,
Shimoda, Shizuoka Pref., Japan:
(Through Dr. H. Hashimoto) 67 inter-
tidal insects from Japan (282955,
exchange).

Shipley, Carl L., Washington, D.C.:
Invitations, engraved plate, tickets of
admission, souvenir programs, photo-
graphs, and medal relating to the in-
augural ball, Jan. 21, 1957 (231048).

Shlesinger, B. Edward, Jr., Washing-
ton, D.C.: Golf ball probably used by
President Hisenhower (231223).

Shoemaker, Gene, Hyattsville, Md.:
Mustelid shark from the Indian River
in Delaware (232232).
DONORS TO THE NATIONAL COLLECTIONS

Shoemaker, Dr. Hurst H., Beirut,
Lebanon : 361 fishes from the vicinity of
Lebanon (231977).

Shoemaker, Jon, Kalamazoo, Mich.:
2 slides, type and paratype, of a new
species of trematode worm from Michi-
gan (231165).

Shontz, Dr. Charles J., Clarion, Pa.:
243 fishes, 250 mollusks, and 73 insects
collected in Burma by donor (231788).

Shulman, W., Livingston, N.J.: 3 min-
erals from various localities (231461,
exchange).

Shumacher, Lt. Larry (See Defense,
U.S. Department of)

Shure, Sidney N., Evanston, Ill.: 400
stamps of Israel in complete sheets
(2382946) ; 100 Israel Postage Due
stamps in Unit IV (222360).

Shuttleworth, Herbert L., II, Amster-
dam, N.Y.: Drum-printed velvet carpet
sample (232194).

Sieker, William E., Madison, Wis.:
1,362 miscellaneous moths from various
localities, and 765 miscellaneous micro-
lepidoptera (231153, 2384009, 234446,
234604, exchanges).

Sieling, Fred W. (See Maryland De-
partment of Research and Hducation)

Sierk, Dr. Herbert A., Jacksonville,
Ill. : 46 lichens from Oklahoma collected
by donor (234077, exchange).

Sightler, Col. S. B., Jr., Lake Wales,
Fla.: 9 U.S. Army officer’s uniform and
aecessories worn by donor (235950).

Silver Wings Fraternity, Harrisburg,
Pa.: (Through Russ Brinkley) 34 phila-
telic covers commemorating the 40th
anniversary of the first mail flight, New
Brunswick, N.J., to San Francisco,
Calif. (232267).

Simmonds, Margaret A., Washington,
D.C. : Toy top (233036).

Simonetta, Dr. Alberto (See Florence,
University of)

Simpler, Albert A., Philadelphia, Pa.:
17,405 U.S. stamps, 1847-1939 (230683).

Simpson, Dr. G. W., Orono, Maine: 3
weevils from the U.S. (231216).

Singer Manufacturing Co., New York,
N.Y.: (Through B. F. Thompson) 142
sewing machines and attachments of the
19th century (235640).

171

Singman, Bert B., Washington, D.C.:
9 Spanish-American War medals and
documents (236050).

Sinkankas, Capt. John, Bayside, Va.:
4 hamburgites from Little Three mine,
San Diego Co., Calif., and fluorite from
Illinois (231076, 234884, exchanges).

Sisk, Carl M., Hollywood, Fla.: Lin-
coln-Hamlin campaign medal, 1860
(235054).

Skeels, W. S. (See Aluminum Com-
pany of America)

Sladen, Dr. William J. L., St. Paul
Island, Pribilof Islands, Alaska: Par-
tial skeleton of a shearwater from St.
Paul Island, Alaska (232010). (See
also Johns Hopkins University)

Sleyzak, Steve, Warren, Ohio: 12 mis-
cellaneous U.S. precanceled stamps
(235421).

Slingluff, Kathleen (See Slingluff,
Kathleen Dickinson Kernan, Estate of)

Slingluff, Kathleen Dickinson Ker-
nan, Estate of: (Through Kathleen
Slingluff and Mrs. Charles C. Savage)
cameo portrait brooch of General An-
drew Jackson (231146).

Slean, Dr. Robert E. (See Minnesota,
University of)

Smallwood, Mrs. John P., Falls
Church, Va.: Cedar waxwing (230999).

Smith, Dr. Allyn G. (See California
Academy of Sciences)

Smith, Dr. Clyde F., Raleigh, N.C.:
40 aphids from Puerto Rico and the U.S.
(235805).

Smith, George M.
versity )

Smith, Mrs. George S., Sacketts Har-
bor, N.Y.: Religious plaque (235944).

Smith, Dr. Leslie M., Davis, Calif. :
26 springtails from the U.S. and Mexico
(231462).

Smith, Mrs. Margaret S., New York,
N.Y.: Man’s long vest of the 18th cen-
tury (233808).

Smith, Stamford D., San Jose, Calif. :
19 caddisflies from California (235740,
exchange).

Smith, W. A., Ilwaco, Wash.: 3 wood
fossils from the Tertiary of Washing-
ton State (231299).

(See Brown Uni-
s

172

Smith, Waddell F., San Rafael, Calif. :
“Pony Express Package” issued by the
National Pony Express Centennial
Assoc., 1960, containing 9 items honor-
ing the centennial celebration (233845).
(See also National Pony Express
Assoc.)

Smithsonian Institution, Washington,
D.C.: (See Bishop Museum, Bernice P.,
also following funds; Bredin, Canfield,
National Aeronautics and Space Ad-
ministration Grant, National Geograph-
ic Society-Smithsonian Expedition to
Panama, Rocca Fund 201 C49, Roebl-
ing, Springer, Walcott) (Through Mrs.
Hileen McCarthy) 420 miscellaneous
philatelic covers, postage stamps, and
postage meters (2384177); (through
Mrs. Louise Pearson) 1382 U.S. and
foreign envelopes and postal cards
(233844). Deposits: Mezzotint “Fish
Market” by Richard Earlom after the
painting by Franz Snyders (2338458) ;
personal photograph record (236078) ;
telescope (236086) ; (through John De
Gurse) 9 pieces of U.S. 19th-century
postal stationery and a used stamp of
Mozambique (2361438); (through John
Jameson) 47 philatelic stampless
covers extracted from the Joseph Henry
and Spencer F. Baird files (233051) ;
(through division of philately and
postal history staff) 30 mint stamps
of Belgian Congo overprinted for use
in Congo (236156). Found in Collec-
tions: 10 geographical maps (231759) ;
double siren (231760) ; deep sea ther-
mometer holder (281761) ; signal lamp
(231762) ; watch movement (231952) ;
silver tablespoon (2382046) ; negro doll
(232047) ; ironstone pitcher (232048) ;
3 telescopes with tripod stand, goggles,
and resistance (232066); newspaper
“Liberator” (232106); Barbour cal-
culating machine (232128) ; balance for
weighing gases used by Edward Morley,
1893 (2321381) ; power switch (232227) ;
autograph book (233290); electrical
apparatus (233317) ; hydrometer
(233318) ; baking can (234056) ; catch-
er’s mask (234057) ; 2 marble specimens
from Corsica and Ireland (234595) ;
bottle with whiskey label of 1890-1907
(234614) ; model of horizontal steam

U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM

ANNUAL REPORT, 1961

engine of the 19th century (234648) ;
doll (234820) ; 2 rimsherds, pot, bowl,
soapstone vessel fragment, and frag-
mentary animal effigy from various
localities (284977); Cammann-type
stethoscope (235477) ; Liberty Loan flag
awarded to industry in World War I
(235639) ; 51 Japanese Naval and Ma-
rine uniform items (235953) ; chemical
storage jar (236090); U.S. Marine
Corps proclamation issued during Boxer
Rebellion in China (236047). Made in
Laboratories: Replica of Greek votive
tablet and vase (233055); model of
broadcasting studio of radio station
KDKA (238815) ; half-models of cow-
horn, tank boat of 1834, Repulse and
Laura Enos (234029) ; photographs of
699 phanerogams, 3 grasses, and 40
eryptogams (236108). Bureau of
American Ethnology: (Through Dr.
Frank H. H. Roberts) dictaphone
(236067) ; (through Mrs. Margaret C.
Blaker) 31 Belgian postage stamps
(234469). River Basin Surveys: In-
dian skeletal remains from Big Bend
Reservoir, Buffalo Co, S. Dak.
(232081) ; 5,153 archeological items and
skeletal material from Fall River Co.,
S. Dak., and Crook and Fremont Cos.,
Wyo., 1957 (232741); Indian skeletal
material from the McNary Reservoir
region (233812) ; (through Dr. Robert
L. Stephenson) 160 land and fresh-
water mollusks from Arkansas and
South Dakota (225806). International
Exchange Service: (Through Jeremiah
Collins) 67 miscellaneous foreign covers
bearing postage stamps and meter im-
pressions (234468). Library: (Through
Ruth Blanchard) 3,857 miscellaneous
U.S. and foreign stamps, covers, and
meter impressions (234464). Col-
lected: 3,756 phanerogams, 482 ferns,
392 grasses, and 506 woods collected in
the Canal Zone and Panama by John E.
Ebinger, 1960, also miscellaneous petri-
fied woods from Panama (233760) ; 73
millipedes, 62 centipedes, 28 miscellane-
ous insects, and 6 arachnida from Bel-
gium and Germany collected by Drs.
R. E. Crabill, Jr., and R. L. Hoffman
(235840) ; 14,125 marine invertebrates,
fishes, mollusks, algae, and fossil inver-
DONORS TO THE

tebrates from Cape Arago, Oreg., col-
lected by Dr. Charles H. Cutress, Jr.,
and Raymond H. Hays, Jr. (231714) ;
24 ore samples from Southern Illinois-
Kentucky fluorspar mining district col-
lected by Paul HE. Desautels (231684) ;
8 phanerogams, 12 grasses, 94 ferns,
and 3,727 cryptogams collected in
Mexico by Drs. Mason E. Hale and T. R.
Soderstrom (232057); 42 land and
fresh-water mollusks from Chiapas,
Mexico, collected by Dr. Mason H. Hale,
Jr. (2384611); birds, reptiles, amphi-
bians, mollusks, and 700 mammals col-
lected by Dr. Charles O. Handley, Jr.,
and Daniel I. Rhymer in Venezuela
(230994) ; 610 tektites from Manila,
Republic of the Philippines, collected by
H. P. Henderson (232000) ; 50 slabs of
Mississippian sandstone containing in-
vertebrate fossils, from float blocks in
the Blue Ridge Hsker, Mich., collected
by Dr. Erle G. Kauffman (232863) ;
100 slabs of rock containing plant fos-
sils, mostly leaf impressions from the
Hocene of Alaska, collected by Dr. Erle
G. Kauffman (232866) ; 300 fossils from
the Miocene, Scientists’ Cliffs, Md.,
collected by Dr. Porter M. Kier and Erle
G. Kauffman (233758); 87 phanero-
gams, 5 grasses, and 1 fern from
Palestine, and 3 phanerogams from
Greece collected by Mrs. Erie Kocher
(231548) ; 5,282 marine invertebrates
and 8 fishes collected by Mrs. L. W.
Peterson (232609) ; 12,200 mollusks and
3 corals from Jaluit and Kwajelein
Atolls, Marshall Islands, also 53 lots of
marine invertebrates, 4 lots of fishes,
and 4 lots of Foraminifera collected by
Dr. Harald A. Rehder (232355) ; 9 mam-
mals from Virginia collected by Daniel
I. Rhymer (235787) ; 56 items to illus-
trate the modern Tarascan Indian lac-
quer industry of Uruapan, Michoacan,
Mexico, collected by Dr. W. C. Sturte-
vant, 1960 (235613) ; 142 minerals from
Southern Norway collected by Dr.
George Switzer (235882). Purchased:
Lithograph of U.S. Gunboat Chenango
by C. Parsons (217297) ; 16 replicas of
historical apparatus displayed at Cay-
endish Laboratory (224580); Ritten-
house clock, shelf clock, and a certifi-
60909161138

NATIONAL COLLECTIONS

173

cate (228314); 9 replicas of Roman
tools (228605) ; 33 items of machinery
and tools (228785); land indenture
(229700) ; pewter porringer made by S.
Hamlin (2297386) ; 5 articles of clothing
of the 18th century (229927); 2,393
chronometer maker’s tools (230288) ;
eagle-back side chair (230695) ; 13 vises,
benches, and shafts with miscellaneous
parts (230733) ; gilded metal eagle, ca.
1830, New York State (231052); 4
Portuguese coins (231054); Turkish
quadrant and measuring stick
(231062) ; birdeage and stand of the
19th century (231140); 3 shelf clocks
(281229) ; engraving of celestial and
terrestrial globes and armillary sphere
(231231) ; model of drop keel cutter
from H.M.S. Queen Elizabeth (231724) ;
2 ancient Greek silver coins (231751) ;
replica of  Gatty’s thermometer
(231758); 3 astronomical models
(231763) ; pantograph and protractor
(231764) ; 31 minerals (231778); oil
painting and 21 tools (231930) ; inkwell
and weathervane (231931); Lutheran
Church lottery ticket and a Windham
City bank note (231948) ; 5 miscellane-
ous bank notes of the 19th century
(231949) ; 5-dollar bill issued by the
City Bank of New Haven, 1854
(231950) model of Perkins’ ice machine
(231955) ; bottle of patent medicine
from Niirnberg, Germany (231956) ;
Mueller X-ray tube (231957) ; 9 pieces
of machinery (231980); 2 lithographs
by Fritz Glarner and Grace Hartigan
(232049) ; breast pump, clinical ther-
mometer, and 2 18th century feeding
bottles (232067); 10 India proof im-
pressions (282126); surveying instru-
ment, hydrometer, horary quadrant,
and an astrolabe (232130); 1,577
tektites from the Philippines (232182) ;
3807 phanerogams, 32 grasses, and 48
ferns from the Belgian Congo (232196) ;
4 scale models of military planes
(232216); lathe engine (232221); 30
tools (232223); model of the Steuben-
ville Bridge (232226); piece of fossil
Ginkgo wood from southeast of Ellen-
berg, Wash. (232294) ; bronze dore and
crystal gas light chandelier (232478) ;
chippendale side chair (2382474) ; clock
174

and clock works (232477); uraninite
from France (232492); Fleming elec-
tron tube (282756); scale model of
Curtiss-Ely plane used in test landing
and take-off from the U.S.S. Pennsyl-
vania in 1911 (232887) ; Pennsylvania
lottery ticket and uncut four-subject
sheet of Windham County bank notes,
issued in Vermont (232893); 3 San
Francisco Clearing House broken bank
bills (232894) ; model of the Schooner
Cc. C. Mengel, Jr. (232898); apatite
from Greenwood, Maine (232950) ; vise
(232976) ; anvil (232977) ; 63 phanero-
gams from South Africa (233042) ;
scale model of U.S. ironclad Benton
(233052) ; scale model of C.S.S. Albe-
marle (283053); reproduction of an
electrometer and reproductions of 2
galvanometers (2383054); scarificator
(233056) ;- dental extraction forceps,
infant’s bottle, and a surgical instru-
ment case (233057) ; model of Bollman
truss bridge (233058); clock works
(233060) ; 7 clocks (233061) ; 2 watches
(233062) ; shelf clock (233063) ; copy-
ing machine (233064) ; clock (233065) ;
model of Fink truss bridge (233066) ;
model of pinkey schooner (233067) ;
seale model of New Haven sharpie,
1885 (233068) ; model of Coalbrookdale
Bridge (233120); George Washington
mourning ring (283157) ; 25 bird skins
from Southern Rhodesia (233275) ; wall
and ceiling paneling from Comegys
mansion (2338291); water color paint-
ing “Glacier, Towle and Arneb in the
Ross Sea” (233306) ; Coulomb electro-
static and magnetostatic torsion bal-
ances (233316) ; mural telescope, min-
ing instrument, tide table, and drawing
instruments (233319) ; watch (233320) ;
2 chiaroscuro woodcuts, “The Martyr-
dom of Saint Paul and Saint Peter” by
Antonio da Trento, and “The Presenta-
tion in the Temple” by John Baptist
Jackson (233457) ; 2 Russian goblets of
the 18th century, ca. 1750 (233459) ; 66
wood samples and 66 herbarium youch-
ers-phanerogams (233464) ; painting of
a surveyor of the 18th century
(233466) ; Heath and Wing odometer
of the 18th century (233468) ; cartoon
“This Wonderful Exhibition of Ma-

U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1961

chinery” and British railway cartoon
“Hffects of the Railroad on the Brute
Creation” (233469); 25 locomotive
drawings (233470) ; model of the Norris
locomotive works, 1855 (233471);
12 engraved mother-of-pearl counters
for playing loo (283535) ; 2 lithographs,
3 mezzotints, and a drypoint (233536) ;
8 woodcuts and 2 lithographs (233537) ;
chiaroscuro woodcut, Da Trento, A.,
after Parmigianino: “St. Matthew”
(233588) ; carriage for 12-pound gun of
the Civil War (233558) ; British naval
journal covering the period of the War
of 1812 (233562) ; 2 fleams (233570) ;
globe, ca. 1750, and print, ‘Cabinet
Geometrique,” by Le Clive, ca. 1780
(238574) ; 26 amphibians and reptiles
from Columbia collected by Otto
Schreiber (233582); pair of iron eal-
ipers (233655); pocket sundial and
whalebone block (233850); rigged
model of schooner Berbice (233851) ;
42 envelopes of ships papers and docu-
ments (233852); model of locometive
“Tom Thumb” (233853) ; 2 caricature
prints illustrating the high hair-dos of
the 18th century and old prints featur-
ing the corset (233943) ; model of Pont
du Gard Aqueduct (234027); 2 drug
jars of the 16th century (234032); 2
drug jars of the 19th century (234033) ;
portrait of a frontiersman (234058) ;
pew paneling, including pew door
(234059) ; level, tap and die set, set of
burnishing tools (234060) ; manuscript
appraisement (234061); pair of scales
and weights and 2 wood carvings from
Bulfinch’s New State House (234062) ;
Protestant Reformation painting of
James I (234159); 88 woods and 38
phanerogams (234162); spectroscope,
surveyor’s demicircle, and electrical
fragments and box (234201); punch
bowl, plate, and blanket (234452); 4
knives and 4 forks (234453) ; cast-iron
plate (234454); 100 ferns from Brazil
collected by Father <A. Sehnem
(234455) ; model of tug boat Brooklyn
(234472) ; model of oil tanker George
Loomis (2384478); model of blockade
runner Fergus (234474); Davis quad-
rant, 1738 (234475); pocket sextant
(234476) ; model of a colonial sloop
DONORS TO THE NATIONAL COLLECTIONS

(234477) ; model of slave brig Diligente
(234478) ; “Hong” bowl of the 18th cen-
tury (234613); color lithograph, La
Ronde, by Pablo Picasso (234632) ;
woodcut, The Virgin in the Clouds and
Siw Saints, by John Baptist Jackson
(234633) ; 3 silver and bronze medals
and a Confederate States of America
note (234641); model of locomotive
“Croton” (284645); model of Dunham
locomotive (2384646); wheelbarrow
odometer (234775); lot of silk pieces
from 18th-century costumes (234779) ;
papier maché milliner’s head, petticoat,
Queen Anne apron, and a crewel skirt
(234780) ; 123 ferns collected on Oxford
University Exploration Club Expedi-
tion to Heuador, 1960 (234807) ; artil-
lery powder carrier with inscription
“U.S. Arsenal Washington 1827”
(234819) ; 25 ancient and modern coins
(234829) ; 23 Colonial and 18 obsolete
U.S. bank notes (234830); replica of
Weber electrodynamometer (234831) ;
steam engine, ca. 1875, and a Judson
governor (234834) ; replica of Hooke’s
wind vane (234836) ; late Renaissance
wooden clock (234933) ; color woodcut,
White Boat, Dalmatian Sea, by Michael
Rothenstein (235029); serigraph, Cot-
tages, by Robert Freimark (235030) ;
artillery haversack, lanyard, and 12
tools (235040) ; 2 lobster-tail burgonets
of the late 17th and early 18th centuries
(235041); American flintlock musket
(235042) ; U.S. Army knapsack of the
Civil War period (235043); proces-
sional lantern (235050); replica of
Robert Hare’s apparatus for the recom-
position of water (235071) ; set of Gun-
ner’s drawing instruments of the 18th
century (235072); torsion balance
(235073) ; reproduction of Weber elec-
trodynamometer (235251); 142 woods
(235252) ; lantern clock of the 17th
century, brass measure, leather covered
box, bowl, stoneware strainer, standing
salt, 2 forks and a spoon, and a pewter
plate (235384) ; nested metric weights
(235393) ; 12 Babylonian duck weights
(2853894) ; 3 nested weights (235395) ;
2 Dutch rules (235396) ; German poison
scale and coin balance (235397); 13
Ashanti weights (235398) ; French coin

175

balance and Persian ring weight
(235400); Franklin _ typewriter
(235473) ; colored lithograph of Lincoln
Hospital, by Charles Magnus, 1864
(235474) ; gravure of Sir Luke Fildes,
“The Doctor” (235476) ; whirling table
(235478) ; model of Metropolitan Street
railway car #1330, 1898 (235482);
model of Shay Geared locomotive, 1893
(235483) ; model of New York horse
car, 1855-60 (235484) ; axe head, mace
head, spear head, and dagger (235558) ;
northwest trade gun (235559) ; litho-
graph “Surrender of General Burgoyne
at Saratoga,” by O. Knirsch (235561) ;
scale model of locomotive “Mikado”
(235609) ; bronze head of Enrico Fermi
(235633) ; collection of sewing items
(235637) ; 87,3871 Heteroptera, miscel-
laneous insects, worldwide (235820) ; 5
parade torches of the 19th century
(235936) ; door and trim, register, and
window trim (235940) ; 3 scale models
of tanks (235946) ; models of U.S. Navy
ironclad USS Monitor and Confederate
States ironclad CSS Virginia (235954) ;
stenograph machine and manual
(236001) ; oil painting of the U.S. Sloop
Albany (236049) ; 6 manuscript account
books (236051); ancient silver stater
struck in the name of Croesus 564-546
B.C. (236063); silver tetradrachm
struck at Gela, Sicily, 5th century B.C.
(236064) ; collection of woodworking
machines and tools (236065); Ashby
tall clock (236071) ; Edison mimeograph
(236072) ; Gideon Roberts tall clock
(236073) ; Nathan Hale wall clock
(236075) ; shelf clock and Connecticut
banjo clock (236076) ; conical pendulum
clock (2386077); Willard shelf clock
(236079); collection of 17 prints
(236080) ; Martin sun dial (236081) ;
Lavoisier diorama (236082); 7 astro-
nomical prints (236083) ; sundial noon
eannon, ca. 1800 (236085) ; 16 weights
(236087); 19 tools and instruments
(236088) ; reproduction of burning
glass, ca. 1790 (2386089) ; English quad-
rant of the 17th century (236091) ; 364
phanerogams and 21 grasses collected
by G. Troupin in the Belgian Congo
(236103) ; scale model of U.S. fighter
plane, P-51C (236118); carpet of the
176

late 19th century (236119); rigged
model of packet ship Ohio and of steam-
ship Savannah (236167) ; Davis quad-
rant, 1760 (236168) ; model of Missis-
sippi and Ohio River packet barge
(236169) ; rigged model paddle steamer
George Law (236170) ; model of steam
whaleback Frank Rockefeller
(236171) ; scale model of New York
pilot schooner Anna Maria (236172) ;
seale model of side-wheel steamer
Rochester (236173) ; Conestoga wagon
bells (236174); model of the John
Fitch steamboat (236177) ; Ecorché and
microscope (236254). (See also Under-
wood, Col. Henry M.). Archives: Tin-
foil phonograph record (231061, de-
posit). National Zoological Park:
Mounted carrier pigeon, “Global Girl”
(232884) ; lungfish from South America
(234202); 5 skins, 23 skeletons and
alcoholics, and 3 eggs of birds (235781) ;
(through Dr. T. H. Reed) 29 mammals

U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM

(236036) .

Snow, Dr. D. W., Trinidad, B.W.I.:
15 phanerogams from _ Trinidad
(2361138).

Snow, R. A., Liverpool, N.Y.: 24 New
York State precanceled stamps
(235660).

Snyder, Carl F. (See Commerce,
U.S. Department of)

Snyder, Dr. Richard C. (See Wash-

ington, University of)

Society of Medalists, New York, N.Y.:
Bronze medal by Adlai S. Hardin
(235059).

Soderstrom, Thomas R., Washington,
D.C.: 165 grasses from Mexico
(234070).

Sohn, Dr. I. Gregory (See Levinson,
Dr. S. A.; Alexander, Dr. Charles I.;
and Interior, U.S. Department of the)

Sokoloff, Alexander (See William H.
Miner Agricultural Research Insti-
tute)

Solecki, Dr. Ralph, New York, N.Y.:
13 Kurdish items (232170).

Soot-Ryen, Dr. T., Oslo, Norway: 4
fishes (228968).

Soper, E. C., Franklin, N.C.: Rhodo-
chrosite from Argentina (233674).

Soukup, Dr. J., Lima, Peru: 15 phan-
erogams from Peru (233733).

ANNUAL REPORT, 1961

South African Institute for Medical
Research, Johannesburg, S. Africa:
(Through Dr. F. Zumpt) 11 vials of
lice from South Africa (232037).

South Australian Museum, Adelaide,
Australia: (Through Dr. G. F. Gross)
4 true bugs from Australia (232099, ex-
change) ; (through Dr. H. M. Hale) 7
ghost moths from Australia (231925,
exchange).

South Carolina Wildlife Resources
Department, Moncks Corner, S.C.:
(Through Robert EH. Stevens) 17 fishes
collected in South Carolina by Robert
E. Stevens (2381640).

South Florida, University of, Tampa,
Fla.: 200 grasses from Florida
(234494).

Souther, E. E., Co. (See E. E. Souther
Co.)

Southern California, University of,
Los Angeles, Calif.: Allan Hancock
Foundation: (Through Fred C. Ziesen-
henne) 81 marine invertebrates
(230344).

Southwell, Charles R.
U.S. Department of)

Southwestern Louisiana, University
of, Lafayette, La.: (Through Dr. Wil-
liam D. Reese) 92 bryophytes from
Canada and the U.S. (283546).

Speed, Mrs. Oscar, Austin, Tex.:
Framed campaign ribbon for Henry
Clay, 1844 (234166).

Spencer, W., North Plainfield, N.J.:
15 micromounts from Franklin, N.J.
(232747).

Sperry, L. P.
panies)

Spilman, T. J., Washington, D.C.: 75
centipedes and millipedes from Mary-
land (234147).

Springer, Dr. Victor G. (See Florida
State Board of Conservation)

Springer Fund, Smithsonian Institu-
tion: 200 fossil blastoids from the Gas-
per limestone, Moulton, Ala., and 26
fossil echinoderms and invertebrates
from Statesville, N.C. (232176, 234132).

Squires, Dr. Donald F. (See Amer-
ican Museum of Natural History)

Squires, Rey. Frank L., Decatur, Ga.:
“Pioneer” five shot revolver (231941).

(See Defense,

(See Waterbury Com-
DONORS TO THE NATIONAL COLLECTIONS

Staatsinstitut fiir Allgemeine Bo-
tanik und Botanischer Garten, Ham-
burg, Germany: 8 ferns from Fiji
(234042).

Stabler, Hugh V., Washington, D.C.,
and Higginbotham, Jeff, Tazewell, Va.:

233 potsherds, stone and miscellaneous | -

Washington,
Va.

objects from Russell,
Tazewell, and Loudoun Cos.,
(234978).

Stack, Joseph B., New York, N.Y.:
Russian silver ingot of the early 15th
century; 2 U.S. silver ingots (232971,
233483); 2 coins struck during the
early 6th century by the Vandals
(233048); 381 obsolete bank notes
(233479, 235064, 235065); satirical
medal referring to the unreliable cur-
rency issued by state banks after the
closing of the Second U.S. Bank, 1857
(233481); obverse die used for the
Mary and Henry Darnley marriage
medal, 1565 (233767); 511 patterns,
experimental and trial numismatic
items (234051) ; 3 American Almanacs
of the 18th century containing tables of
exchange (234169); 66 ancient and
modern, gold and silver, coins (233477,
233478, 233482, 233488, 233489, 233491,
234826, 234827, 234828, 235063, 236057,
236061) ; 287 miscellaneous historical
checks, bank notes, currency bills, and
financial documents (233307, 233480,
233484, 233485, 233486, 233487, 233490,
233842, 235062, 235996, 236058).

Stack, Morton, New York, N.Y.: 11
business college notes and 4 proofs of
early notes (236053, 286054).

Stack, Norman, New York, N.Y.: 6
drawings by Christian Gobrecht
(227176); bronze Canadian Indian
treaty medal (236056) ; Manly and Hc-
cleston medals commemorating George
Washington and a facsimile Indian
Peace medal struck in 1902 (236059).

Stackelberg, Dr. A. (See Academy of
Sciences of the U.S.S.R.)

Stack’s, New York, N.Y.: 71 Indian
trade beads (231226); 8 billon and 2
silver coins of Portugal (232970) ; silver
medal commemorating John III Sobi-
eski’s victory over the Turks at Chotin,
1673, (236055).

177

Stagg, A. C., Lexington, Ky.: 185
precanceled stamps of Kentucky
(233687, 234043).

Stainforth, Dr. R. M., Talara, Peru:
314 Foraminifera, including types,
from the Hocene of Equador (231889).
Staley, George G., Fayetteville, Ark. :
30 invertebrate fossils from the Middle

Devonian of northwest Arkansas
(2323801).
Standard Oil Co. Chicago, IIL:

(Through J. C. Ducommun) original
Burton-Humphreys experimental still
and desk used during their work on
thermal cracking (216704).

Stanford University, Stanford, Calif. :
113 phanerogams and 1 grass (233038,
exchange); (through EH. L. Ginzton)
linear electron accelerator unit loading
tube and 5 klystrons (233576) ;
(through Dr. Myra Keen) 2 marine
mollusks, paratypes, from near LaPaz,
Baja California, Mexico (235926, ex-
change); (through Dr. John UH.
Thomas) 25 wood samples, 8 herbarium
vouchers, and 17% herbarium specimens
(231744, 232208, exchanges). Dudley
Herbarium: 252 phanerogams from
Baja California (234076, exchange).
Natural History Museum: (Through
Prof. Donald HE. Wohlschlag) 5,528
marine invertebrates, also 60 brachio-
pods, 200 forams, 1 plant, insects, and
geological specimens from Operation
Deepfreeze IV collections made by
Stanford University personnel
(226350).

Starcevic, Anthony E., Washington,
D.C.: National Democratic election
ticket for 1860 (233297) ; 18 minerals
from Brazil (234909, exchange).

Starck, Walter A., II (See Miami,
University of)

State Bureau of Mines and Mineral
Resources, Socorro, N. Mex.: Native
selenium in sandstone from Poison
Canyon, N. Mex. (235445).

Staten Island Historical Society,
Richmondtown, Staten Island, N.Y.:
(Through Marjorie G. Kerr) X-ray
tube stand and tube (228888).

Stecker, M. (See Llubetic, Antonio)
178

Steeves, Harrison R., Jr., Birming-
ham, Ala.: 4 scarab beetles from Ala-
bama (234556).

Steinitz, Dr. H. (See Cape Haze
Marine Laboratory)

Stephens, Franklin, Arlington, Va.:
Ludwigite from Cottonwood Canyon,
Utah (232002).

Stephenson, Dr. Robert L.
Smithsonian Institution)

Stern, Dr. William L., Washington,
D.C.: 112 wood specimens collected in
Panama, 1957 (231546); 22 miscel-
laneous wood specimens (231547,
2382198) ; 609 wood specimens from the
Province of Darien, Panama, and 13
beetles from Peru (231933, 283278).

Stettenheim, Peter, East Lansing,
Mich.: Isopod (235311).

Stevens, O. L., Bladensburg, Md.: 2
radio receivers (235389).

Stevens, Robert E. (See South Car-
olina Wildlife Resources Department)

Stevenson, George H. (deceased) :
(Through Mrs. Richard D. Watson and
Mrs. Marion C. Terry) 33 Peruvian
aboriginal pottery vessels and a Colo-
nial Peruvian saddle and trappings
(234976).

(See

Stewart, Dr. Duncan, Northfield,
Minn.: 8 invertebrate fossils from
Ridgemount, Ontario (234892, ex-
change).

Stewart, J. George (See Architect of
the Capitol)

Stewart, Dr. Robert H., Balboa
Heights, Canal Zone: 607 marine in-
vertebrates, 2 brachiopods and algae
(197052) ; 400 marine mollusks from
the Caribbean coast of eastern Panama
(234448).

Steyermark, Dr. Julian A. (See Min-
isterio de Agricultura y Cria)

Steyskal, George, Grosse Isle, Mich.:
21 drosophilid flies and 15 sawflies and
wasps from the U.S. (231920).

Stigall, Cecil, Washington, D.C.: Em-
broidered table cloth from Germany,
1887-89 (233296).

Stock, Dr. J. H.
Museum)

Stollnitz, Henry, Forest Hills, N.Y.:
U.S. mint postage stamp, Scott’s No.
595 (232755).

(See Zodlogisch

U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1961

Stone, Dr. Alan (See Agriculture,
U.S. Department of)

Stone, Dr. Harvey Brinton (See Eclat
Club)

Stone, Ralph H., McLean, Va.: Army
officer’s uniform of World War I worn
by donor (232065).

Stoops, R. L., North Las Vegas, Nev.:
Potsherds from Clark Co. Nev.
(234396) .

Stoor, Dr. Leo, University Heights,
Ohio: Collection of 547 pipes and smok-
ing equipment, also books on the subject

(234565).

Storck, Mrs. H. F., New Rochelle,
N.Y.: Pair of men’s shoes, 1915
(230887).

Strandtmann, Dr. R. W., Lubbock,
Tex.: 53 slides of nasal mites of birds
from the U.S. and Thailand (232098,
235025).

Straus, Ada Gutman (See Fields, Mrs.
Lenore Straus)

Straus, Edith Gutman (See Fields,
Mrs. Lenore Straus)

Strelak, Joseph, Waukegan, Ill.: 50
first day wrappers of the U.S., United
Nations, Canada, and the Canal Zone
(233846, 236139).

Stroup, Walter (See Tarrant, Fred
K., Jr.)

Stschedrina, Mrs. Z. G. (See Academy
of Sciences of the U.S.S.R.)

Stuart, W. W., Des Moines, Iowa:
Early storage battery powered flashlight
(232621).

Stubbert, Richard, Toronto, Ontario,
Canada: 388 miscellaneous postage
stamps of various countries (233699).

Sturgeon, Dr. Myron T., Athens,
Ohio: (Through Dr. Ellis L. Yochelson)
167 gastropods from the Pennsylvanian
of eastern Ohio (285009).

Suess, Dr. H. E. (See California, Uni-
versity of)

Summerfield, Hon. Arthur E., Wash-
ington, D.C.: Letter sent to Dr. Car-
michael by way of special air force
flight commemorating the 100th anni-
versary of the Pony Express (231477).

Summers, W. L., Fort Scott, Kans.:
205 precanceled stamps (238690).

Suomela, Arnie J. (See Interior, U.S.
Department of the)
DONORS TO THE

Sutherland, Minnie Sarah, Washing-
ton, D.C.: Chest of drawers attributed
to Jonathan Sheldon (235645).

Sutherland, Mrs. W. A., Washington,
D.C.: 19 English and China trade por-
celains of the 18th century (232957) ;
10 china articles and a silver teaglass
holder of the 18th and late 19th cen-
turies (236066).

Suttkus, Dr. Royal D. (See Cornell
University )

Sverdrup, Dr. Thor L., Oslo, Norway:
Topaz from Norway (234596).

Swarts, Larry, Long Beach, Calif.,
and Lyon, Geoffrey, New York, N.Y.:
Mail order catalog issued by H. Wolf
(230873).

Swedish Forest Products Research
Laboratory, Stockholm, Sweden:
(Through Dr. Julius Boutelje) 44 wood
samples (233682, exchange).

Swett, John W., Midland, Tex.: Mer-
eury ore from Mexico (233517).

Sydney, University of, Sydney, Aus-
tralia: (Through Dr. T. B. H. Jenkins)
101 invertebrate fossils from the Paleo-
zoic of New South Wales, Australia
(235925, exchange).

Szezawinski, Dr. Adam F. (See Pro-
vincial Museum)

Taft, Charles P., Cincinnati, Ohio:
Mandarin robe lined with sheepskin
which belonged to Mrs. William H. Taft
(234825).

Tagawa, Dr. M. (See Kyoto Univer-
sity).

Tamsitt, Prof. J. R., Bogota, Colom-
bia: (Through Dr. Coleman J. Goin)
12 frogs from Colombia collected by
donor (233792).

Tanner, H. P. (See Wild Heerbrugg
Instruments, Inc.)

Tarrant, Fred K., Jr. and Stroup,
Walter, Saratoga Springs, N.Y.: Bomb
of the 18th century (235675).

Tattersall, Dr. Olive S., Hayling Is-
land, England: 25 mysids and 5 lots of
decapod larvae (235130).

Taylor, Alice (See Taylor, Martha)

Taylor, Dr. J. S., Port Elizabeth, Union
of South Africa : 31 bees and wasps, and
71 flies from South Africa (233282,
235823).

NATIONAL COLLECTIONS

179

Taylor, L. F. (See Casco Products
Corp.)

Taylor, Martha, Washington, D.C.,
and Taylor, Alice, Minneapolis, Minn. :
Silk patchwork quilt (232472).

Taylor, Prentiss, Arlington, Va.: 3
examples of handwoven linen, mid-
19th century (231416); woodcut, Gift
of Fire, by Grace Oehser (235992).

Teal, Dr. John M. (See Georgia, Uni-
versity of)

Technicolor Corp., New York, N.Y.:
(Through Charles W. Carpenter) plastic
mounted display and sample film strips
which illustrate the Technirama proc-
ess of cinematography (233047).

Tenery, Col. John H., Fort Sam Hous-
ton, Tex., and Litsey, John B., Dallas,
Tex.: 125 invertebrate fossils from the
Cretaceous of Texas (235466).

Terry, Mrs. Marion C. (See Steven-
son, George H.)

Texas, University of, Austin, Tex.: 5
phanerogams from Mexico (232480) ; 4
grasses and 34 ferns collected by Rob-
ert Merrill King (232632, 233581) ; 815
phanerogams and 300 grasses from
Guatemala and Mexico (234982,
exchange).

Texas Christian University, Fort
Worth, Tex.: (Through Dr. Neil C.
Hulings) 3 crustaceans (225562).

Texas Research Foundation, Renner,
Tex.: 48 phanerogams (221709,
232960) ; (through Dr. C. L. Lundell)
511 grasses from British Honduras and
Guatemala (230687).

Thibodeau, Leo T., Arlington, Va.:
Sun dial (231961).

Thieret, Dr. J. W.
Natural History Museum)

Thomas, Mrs. Eunice B., Bethesda,
Md.: Masonic plaque with naval motif
believed to have been recovered from
the battleship Maine, 1898 (234628).

Thomas, Dr. John H. (See Stanford
University )

Thomas, Lowell P. (See Miami, Uni-
versity of)

Thomas, Mrs. Roy E., Santa Monica,
Calif., and Meek, Col. Herbert A.,
Malibu, Calif.: Tulip applique quilt,
1855-65 (231442).

(See Chicago
180

Thomas, W. Donald, Chelsea, Mass. :
Sphinx moth with pupa case from the
Dominican Republic (235896).

Thomas, William W., Phnom Penh,
Cambodia: 38 bird skins from Formosa
(232748).

Thompson, B. F. (See Singer Manu-
facturing Co.)

Thompson, John R.
U.S. Department of the)

YThomssen, Richard W., Tucson, Ariz. :
6 minerals from Arizona and Colorado
(232587); plattnerite on wulfenite
from Defiance Mine, Cochise Co., Ariz.
(2385441, exchange).

Tidewater Oil Co., Washington, D.C.:
(Through James A. Ransford) 3 items
of pipe line equipment (235969).

Tigney, E. E., Falls Church, Va.: 77
used postage stamps and 5 minor coins
of Thailand (235656).

Tikasingh, Dr. Elisha S., Corvallis,
Oreg.: 2 parasitic mollusks, holotypes,
from Washington (232352). (See also
Trinidad Regional Virus Laboratory)

Timberlake, Prof. P. H., Riverside,
Calif.: 183 bees from Ventura Co.,
Calif. (232033).

Tindale, Mary (See Royal Botanic
Gardens and National Herbarium)

Tinker, Spencer (See Hawaii, Uni-
versity of)

Tippo, Dr. Oswald, Boulder, Colo.:
122 woods from South and Central
America, British Guiana, and British
Honduras (231545, 232050, 232210).

Tipton, Capt. Vernon J., Fort Clay-
ton, Canal Zone: (Through Dr. Phyllis
T. Johnson) 521 sucking lice from Pan-
ama (231774, 232097). (See also De-
fense, U.S. Department of)

Titschack, Dr. E., Hamburg, Ger-
many: 2 slides of thrips from Austria
and Italy (233832, exchange).

Titus, Lt. Col. Calvin P., North Hol-
lywood, Calif.: Medal of Honor, rib-
bons and citation, Purple Heart and
citation, China Relief Expedition Serv-
ice medal, and 2 photographs (233840).

Todd, Dr. E. L., Washington, D.C.:
36 miscellaneous microlepidoptera from
Kansas (234447).

U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM

(See Interior,

ANNUAL REPORT, 1961

Todd, Ruth (See Interior, U.S. De-
partment of the and LeCalvez, Dr.
Yolande)

Togo Philatelic Agency, Inc., New
York, N.Y.: 4 mint postage stamps of
Togo (230596).

Tohoku Imperial University, Sendai,
Japan: (Through Dr. Shéshird Han-
zawa) 90 specimens and 76 lots of
Recent Foraminifera, algae, and corals
from the Tertiary and Paleozoic of
Micronesia, Taiwan, and Japan
(235001, exchange).

Tokunaga, Dr. Masaaki, Shimogamo,
Kyoto, Japan: 28 biting midges from
the Pacific (232189).

Tokyo, University of, Tokyo, Japan:
(Through Dr. Ken Shimaji) 22 woods
and 22 herbarium specimens (232201,
exchange).

Tolonen, Karl Eric, Ft. Myers, Fla.:
Right periotic of whalebone whale from
Port Charlotte, Fla. (231919).

Tomlinson, Dr. Jack T., San Fran-
cisco, Calif.: Barnacle, holotype, from
the Pennsylvanian, North of Baldwin,
Kans. (236098).

Toronto, University of, Toronto,
Canada: 367 lichens collected in Can-
ada by Dr. Roy F. Cain (229018, gift-
exchange).

Torsion Balance Co., Clifton, N.J.:
(Through C. T. Kasline) prescription
torsion balance with dial reading
(236093).

Tortonese, Dr. Enrico (See Museo
Civico di Storia Naturale “Giacomo
Doria” )

Tosi, Joseph A., Jr., San José, Costa
Rica: Wood sample (233683).

Townes, Dr. H. K., Ann Arbor, Mich. :
20 wasps, holotypes, from the U.S.
(231922).

Townsend, Mr. and Mrs. Edward N.,
Plandome, L.I., N.Y.: Rocking horse
(230861).

Trace, Timothy, Peekskill, N.Y.: 2
surveying instruments (231960).

Trapp, F. W., Falls Church, Va.:
Sphalerite on prehnite from Arlington
Quarry, Loudoun Co., Va. (233253,
exchange).
DONORS TO THE NATIONAL COLLECTIONS

Traub, Col. Robert (See Defense, U.S.
Department of; and Bishop Museum,
Bernice P.)

Traverse, Alfred, Houston, Tex.: 212
phanerogams and a grass (231040).

Treasury, U.S. Department of the,
Washington, D.C.: Bureau of Customs:
(Through Carl F. White) 352 minerals,
cut stones, synthetics, and imitations
(231683). Internal Revenue Service: 60
firearms and a leather holster (234969,
235948, 236045, 236046); (through
Mortimer M. Caplin) 12,000 U.S. Inter-
nal Revenue playing card stamps, over-
printed (235655); (through Dana
Latham) 23,928 stock transfer stamps
(231228); 30,100 Revenue and tax
stamps (231754, 231755, 232121). Bu-
reau of the Mint: 32 coins and medals
from the Philadelphia and Denver
Mints for 1960 (235494). Secret Serv-
ice: (Through R. H. Habermehl) 9 guns
(235569). U.S. Coast Guard: (Through
Adm, A. C. Richmond) album containing
Federal Boating stamps issued under
the Act of 1958 (231825).

Trenton, City of, Trenton, N.J.:
(Through David S. Davies) 41 foundry
relics from the Fisher and Norris works
in Trenton (236074).

Triest, Mrs. Willard, Annapolis, Md. ;
Metters, Mrs. Robert G., Spokane,
Wash.; Kauffman, Mrs. Draper L.
Long Beach, Calif.; and Biays, Mrs.
EK. Tuckerman, and Williams, Mrs.
Robert H., Washington, D.C.: 197 his-
torical items, including costumes and
cultural, political, military, and an-
thropological materials (234919).

Trinidad Regional Virus Laboratory,
Port of Spain, Trinidad: (Through Dr.
Elisha S. Tikasingh) 2 sea cucumbers
(235190).

Troup, Prentice (See G. E. Prentice
Mfg. Co.)

Troy, A. B., Greensboro, N.C.: Staf-
fordshire luster pitcher (233485).

Tryon, Dr. Rolla M. (See Harvard
University)

Tsirimonis, Constantin St., Alexan-
dria, Egypt: Christmas card and cover
with 24 postage stamps of Monaco,

181

United Arab Republic, and the U.S.
(235657).

Tulane University, New Orleans, La.:
5 grasses from Louisiana (233584) ;
(through Dr, Willis A. Eggler) 32
phanerogams from Paricutin Volcano,
Mexico (230345). Newcomb College:
7 grasses from Mexico (230169). ©

Tupaz, Jose, Manila, Republic of the
Philippines: (Through Dr. Pablo I. de
Jesus) bronze medal, gilt, struck in
commemoration of President Dwight D.
Wisenhower’s visit to the Philippines,
June 14-16, 1960 (231514).

Turbocraft, Indianapolis, Ind. :
(Through George A. Morrison) turbo
jet marine engine (233773).

Turner, George T., Washington, D.C.:
79 miscellaneous U.S. and foreign post-
age stamps, covers, programs, and a
state tax “decal” (234048, 236157).

Turner, Robert M., Washington, D.C. :
Connellite from Bisbee, Ariz. (231241,
exchange).

Uncapher, Keith (See Rand Corp.)

Underwood, Col. Henry M., Estate
of: (Through Earl J. Lombard) plaster
models of the Hast and State Dining
Rooms of the White House during the
Hoover Administration (234461, gift-
purchase).

Union Hardware Co., Torrington,
Conn.: (Through L. EH. Bees) hoist,
grindstone, and a power press (235982).

United Arab Republic, Government
of, Cairo, Egypt: (Through Saad El-
Chichini) 144 mint postage stamps and
first day covers of the United Arab
Republic, Egyptian region (233701,
236142).

United Nations Postal Administra-
tion, New York, N.Y.: (Through Dr.
D. Thomas Clements) complete sheet
of each 4cent and 8-cent “Forestry”
postage stamps (232891); 200 United
Nations 4cent and §8-cent postage
stamps (2341838, 234640); 100 4cent
and ‘T-cent postage stamps of the
United Nations honoring the Interna-
tional Monetary Fund and 100 4cent
and 8-cent postage stamps honoring
the International Court of Justice
(236137).
182 U.S. NATIONAE MUSEUM

United Publishing Co., Inc., Wash-
ington, D.C.: (Through Ralph E.
Becker) 13 booklets and leaflets sup-
porting the Democratic Party, 1960
(2333381).

Universal Oil Products Co. Des
Plaines, Ill.: (Through M. P. Venema)
2 models of platforming and polymeri-
zation processes, together with illumi-
nated explanatory flow charts of the
models and of the Dubbs Thermal
Cracking process (235033).

Universidad Central de Venezuela,
Maracay, Venezuela: (Through Dr.
Carlos J. Rosales) butterfly from Vene-
zuela (234149).

Universidad de los Andes, Mérida,
Venezuela: (Through Dr. Harry Cor-
othie) 18 slides of wood (2384994, ex-
change).

Universidad de Montevideo, Monte-
video, Uruguay; 16 phanerogams from
Uruguay (231600).

Universidad de Oriente, Cumana,
Venezuela: Instituto Oceanograjico:
(Through Rafael Martinez E.) 5
shrimps with bopyrids (234430).

Universidad de Oriente, Santiago de
Cuba, Cuba: (Through Prof. M. Lépez
F.) 188 phanerogams, 2 grasses, 5 ferns,
and 48 eryptogams (2310383) ; (through
Dr. Salvador L. de La Torre) 2 insects,
paratypes (222450, exchange).

Universidad Nacional de Trujillo,
Trujillo, Peru: 40 phanerogams and 18
grasses from Peru (226528, 227960,
228110, 233220, 233552).

Universidad Nacional de Tucuman,
Tucumdn, Argentina: (Through Dr.
Osvaldo A. Reig) 3 frogs from the Ar-
gentine Chaco (233439, exchange).

Universidade do Parana, Curitiba,
Paranda, Brazil: 32 phanerogams from
Brazil (233233, 233460); through Dr.
Hans Jakobi) 9 crustaceans, paratypes
(232141).

Universidade do Rio Grande do Sul,
Porto Alegre, Brazil: (Through Prof.
Dr. D. Closs) 21 invertebrate fossils
and fossil plants from the Paleozoic
and Triassic of Brazil (225479, ex-
change).

ANNUAL REPORT, 1961

Universitatis Szeged, Szeged, Hun-
gary: (Through Dr. Pal Greguss) 9
slides of wood (234992, exchange). -

Université de Rennes, Rennes,
France: 4 isotypes of ecryptogams
(234988) .

Universitetets Zoologiske Museum,
Copenhagen, Denmark: (Through Dr.
H. Volsge) 9 deep-sea marine inverte-
brates, paratypes, and a model of
anglerfish collected on the Galathea
Expedition, 1951-52 (232782).

University College of the West In-
dies, Kingston, Jamaica, West Indies:
(Through Dr. Ivan Goodbody) 167
mysids (233339).

University School of Forestry, Brno,
Czechoslovakia: (Through Dr. Antonin
Vezda) 53 lichens (235619, exchange).

Unklesbay, Dr. A. G. (See Missouri,
University of)

Unknown: 10 birds (231212) ; Aleut
wooden halibut hook, probably collected
by William H. Dall, 1865-90 (234589) ;
413 miscellaneous U.S. precanceled
stamps (235654) ; 2 Campanian red-fig-
ured vases (235914).

V&O Press Co. Hudson, N.Y.:
(Through Neil Wan Deusen) V&O
power press No. 2A (235984).

Valkeila, Erkki, Haimeenlinna, Fin-
land: 8 bees from Finland (234956).

van der Vecht, Dr. J. (See Rijks-
museum van Natuurlijke Historie)

Van Deusen, Neil (See V&O Press
Co.)

Van Doesburg, Dr. P. H., Jr., Para-
maribo, Suriname (235822).

Van Dyke, Mrs. Henry, St. Peters-
burg, Fla.: 374 used and unused post-
age stamps of Haiti (233318).

Van Gelder, Dr. Richard G. (See
American Museum of Natural History)

Van Housen, Clifford, Corning, N.Y.:
15 precanceled stamps (283686).

Van Hyning, O. C., Maitland, Fla.:
28 phanerogams from Mexico
(232209).

Van Itallie, Dorus, New York, N.Y.: 2
diamonds from Sierra Leone and Bul-
fontein Mine, Union of S. Africa
(231907).
DONORS TO THE NATIONAL COLLECTIONS

van Regteren Altena, Dr. C.O. (See
Rijksmuseum van Natuurlijke His-
torie)

Van Wambeke, Dr. L. (See Commu-
naute Huropeenne de |l’Energie Atom-
ique)

van Wyk, Dr. J. H.
search Institute)

Vargas C., Dr. César, Cuzco, Peru:
Phanerogam (231935).

Vari-vue Animations, Mt. Vernon,
N.Y.: (Through Ralph E. Becker) 12
flash buttons and a series of order
blanks from the 1960 presidential cam-
paign (234053).

Vaurie, Mrs. Patricia, New York,
N.Y.: 76 insects from Mexico and Cen-
tral America (222244).

Venema, M. P. (See Universal Oil
Products Co.)

Verbeke, Dr. J. (See Musée Royal
d’Histoire Naturelle de Belgique)

Verhoeff, Roger, Hunterville, N.C.:
(Through Drs. Leslie W. Scattergood
and Daniel M. Cohen) set of blue shark
jaws (235027).

Vezda, Dr. Antonin (See University
School of Forestry)

Vickers, Inc., Waterbury, Conn.:
(Through H. J. Viens) hydraulic speed
change gear unit (235988).

Viens, H. J. (See Vickers, Inc.)

Villella, A. L., Manila, Republic of the
Philippines: 8 tektites from the Philip-
pines (231675).

Virgin Islands Museum, Ine., St.
Thomas, Virgin Islands: (Through Mrs.
Hugh N. Davis, Jr.) female Negro
skeleton (231853).

Virgin Islands National Park, St.
John, Virgin Islands: (Through Dr.
John H. Randall) 16 sea anemones
(235128).

Vogel, Robert, Washington, D.C.:
Stereopticon slide showing Mr. and Mrs.
William Jennings Bryan (233839).
(See also Meyer, Louis F., Jr.)

Volsee, Dr. H. (See Universitetets
Zoologiske Museum)

Von Knorring, Dr. O. (See University
of Leeds)

Von Sothen, Carl E. H., and Freda G.,
Syracuse, N.Y.: Racing bicycle of 1887

(See Forest Re-

183

and reproduction of French porcelain
plate from the Martha Washington
state china of the late 19th century,
given in memory of Godfrey A. S.
Wieners (232558, 234388).

Von Sothen, Freda G.
Sothen, Carl E. H.)

Voous, Dr. K. H.
Museum)

W. W. Cross & Co., Jaffrey, N.H.:
(Through Irving Reid) No. 5 national
wire nail machine (234744).

Wade, Mrs. Ella N. (See College of
Physicians of Philadelphia)

Wain, H. C., Somers, Conn.: Calcite
from Faraday Uranium Mine, Bancroft,
Ontario, Canada (233514).

Walcott Fund, Smithsonian Institu-
tion: 268 fossil invertebrates from the
Jurassic, Tertiary, Paleozoic, and
Devonian of France (231018); 1,000
Pennsylvanian invertebrate fossils from
the vicinity of Jacksboro, Tex., collected
by Dr. G. A. Cooper and Dr. R. HE.
Grant, May 1960 (231691) ; 409 foreign
invertebrate fossils, including am-
monoids, trilobites, brachiopods, echi-
noids, ete., also 34 fossil dodo bones
(232091) ; 202 vertebrate fossils col-
lected by Dr. Nicholas Hotten, III, and
John D. Gassaway in Kansas, Okla-
homa, and Texas, May and June 1960
(282425) ; whale skeleton from York-
town formation, Miocene, near Hamp-
ton, Va., collected by Dr. Nicholas Hot-
ton, III, Dr. Frank C. Whitmore, Jr.,
and Kurt MHauschildt, Sept. 1960
(232595) ; 3,000 invertebrate fossils
from the Upper Cretaceous of Mon-
mouth formation, Brightseat, Md., col-
lected by Erle G. Kauffman and Henry
B. Roberts (232864) ; 10,000 marine in-
vertebrates from the Miocene of Vir-
ginia, collected by Dr. and Mrs. Cooper,
H. B. Roberts, and Dr. Druid Wilson,
Aug. 5-8, 1960 (233273) ; 2 fossil ray
and gar fishes and a probable fossil
booby bird from the Hocene, Green
River, Wyo. (2384134) ; 70 fragments of
matrix containing bone; also assorted
fossil amphibian and fish materials
from various localities collected by Dr.
Nicholas Hotten, III, and William BH.

(See Von

(See Zoologisch
184

Moran, Nov. 1960 (234593) ; 2,500 in-
vertebrate fossils from the Upper Cre-
taceous, Paleocene, and Eocene of Mary-
land collected by Erle G. Kauffman,
Dr. Norman F. Sohl, and Dr. Harlan
Bergquist (235005); 34 brachiopods
from the Carboniferous of England
(235470) ; 600 fossil echinoids from the
Paleocene of Fort Gaines and Hocene
of Clinchfield, Ga., collected by Drs.
Porter M. Kier and Druid Wilson
(236097).

Waldman Button Co, New York,
N.Y.: (Through Ralph E. Becker) 29
pieces of jewelry from the Republican
1960 campaign, also 4 buttons from the
1957 inauguration and the 1960 cam-
paign (235929).

Walker, Dr. Boyd W. (See California,
University of)

Walker, Mrs. Ethel V. (deceased) ;
(Through W. J. Horrigan) Jacquard
coverlet of the mid-19th century
(234386, bequest).

Walsh, Jerome (See Walsh, Mrs.
Thomas)

Walsh, Mrs. Thomas, and Walsh,
Jerome, Walled Lake, Mich.: Washing-
ton commemorative hatchet (236131).

Walshtrom, Robert E., Fresno, Calif. :
Sanbornite from Esquire Mine No. 1,
Fresno Co., Calif. (232998).

Walton, Capt. Bryce C., Fort McPher-
son, Ga.: 52 isopods (232487).

Wanke, Dr. H., Mainz, Germany: Slice
of the Treysa, Germany, iron meteorite
(231971, exchange).

Ward, Mrs. Gertrude McHench,
Bradenton, Fla.: (Through Alice B.
Mackey) Harrison-Reid campaign ban-
danna (231681).

Ward, Herbert, Guam, Marshall Is-
lands: 110 fishes from Guam collected
by donor (231310).

Ward, Richard C., Baltimore, Md.: 2
ferns from Maryland (232200).

Ward’s Natural Science Establish-
lishment, Inc., Rochester, N.Y.: 12 min-
erals from Bolivia (233112, exchange) ;
(through David BE. Jensen) 2 chalcedony
interstitial fillings from Kellogg, Idaho,
and 3 quartz specimens with hematite
inclusions from Antsiriky, Madagascar
(231901, 233265).

U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1961

Wareham, Ralph E., Chappaqua,
N.Y.: Lerochrome National Photocolor
One-shot color camera and accessories
(232397).

Warfield, Thomas P., Baltimore, Md.:
5-dollar note, Providence, R.I., Bank of
the Republic, 1855 and a 10-dollar note
issued in 1840 by the Commercial Bank
of Millington, Md. (231055, 233309).

Washburn, Dr. Wilcomb E., Washing-
ton, D.C. ; “The National Clay Almanac,
1845,” containing political songs cele-
brating Henry Clay and excerpts from
his speeches, in addition to conventional
almanac material (236126).

Washington, University of, Seattle,
Wash.: Grass from Washington State
(232630) ; 22 phanerogams from Mexico
collected by Stanford, Lauber, and
Taylor (233880) ; (through Dr. William
Aron and Dr. Daniel M. Cohen) 8 fishes
from the North Pacific (232166) ;
(through Dr. Paul L. Illg) 8 sea plumes
(233590); (through Dr. Richard C.
Snyder) 5 frogs from Mt. Rainier Na-
tional Park, Washington (230975,
exchange).

Washington State University, Pull-
man, Wash.: (Through KE. P. Breakey)
7 snails from Seaview, Wash. (231405) ;
(through Dr. Maurice T. James) 3
flies, holotypes and allotype (232699).

Wass, Dr. Marvin L., Gloucester
Point, Va.: Crab and holotype of a her-
mit crab (234314). (See also Hulings,
Dr. Neil; and Woods Hole Oceano-
graphic Institution)

Waterbury Companies, Waterbury,
Conn.: (Through L. P. Sperry) 5 ma-
chines for producing uniform buttons
and paper boxes (235965).

Waters, Prof. Aaron, Baltimore, Md. :
9 rocks representative of the Columbia
River basalts (228089, exchange).

Watkins, Mrs. Charles H., Middle-
ton, Mass.: Russian blouse and wicker
settee (234255, 235939).

Watson, Mrs. Richard D. (See Ste-
venson, George H.)

Weaver, Mr. and Mrs. B. Woodruff,
Washington, D.C.: Man’s gold watch
and chain of the early 20th century
(234684).
DONORS TO THE NATIONAL COLLECTIONS

Weaver, Clifton S. Kailua, Oahu,
Hawaii: 4 rare species of mollusks
from Australia (233962, 2385901, ex-
changes).

Weaver, Mrs. Margaret, Washington,
D.C.: 5 American chairs, candlestand,
doublewoven Jacquard coverlet, and an
American sofa, ca. 1840, 17th, 18th and
mid-19th centuries (233702, 234063).

Webb, George, Hampton, Va.: 36 fos-
sil crabs, 5 mollusks, and 430 gastro-
pods from Virginia (230207, 231896,
233492).

Webb, J. H., Daytona Beach, Fla.: 2
marine mollusks from the Philippines
(232339).

Weckesser, Paul P.
Fred)

Weems, Dr. Howard V., Jr., Gaines-
ville, Fla.: 221 centipedes from Florida
and North Carolina (233530). (See
also State Plant Board of Florida)

Weiss, Helena M., Washington, D.C.:
4 foreign covers bearing postage stamps
and meter impressions (234466). .

Welch, Francis E., Washington, D.C.:
17 miscellaneous philatelic items
(234171).

Weller, Prof. R. I.
& Marshall College)

Wells, Dr. Harry W., Buxton, N.C.:
5 gastropods, comprising the holotype
and 4 paratypes of a new species, from
Beaufort, N.C. (233942).

Wells, Loren W., Fayette, Mo.:
Sticker and button supporting the Nixon
presidential campaign, 1960 (2384631).

Wells, Lt. Comdr. William H. (See
Defense, U.S. Department of)

Welsh, Peter, Kensington, Md. : Steel-
yard (233292).

Wence, Herschel E., Terre Haute,
Ind.: Baby Wolf safety lamp (235034).

West Virginia University, Morgan-
town, W. Va.: 123 phanerogams, 3
grasses, and 9 ferns (236102, ex-
change) ; (through Elizabeth Ann Bar-
tholomew) 40 mosses from West Vir-
ginia (228645).

Wetmore, Dr. A., Washington, D.C.:
Bird (232007). (See also Curtis, Karl)

Wetzel, Mrs. Ruth N., Mount Vernon,
N.Y.: (Through League of Women
Voters of the United States) Christmas

(See Kepner, C.

(See Franklin

185

posteard overprinted “Votes for
Women” (236130).
Weyrauch, Dr. Wolfgang, Lima,

Peru: 87 land and marine mollusks
from Peru and Ecuador, including 52
paratypes (230185).

Wheeler, Dr. George C.
Dakota, University of)

Wheeler, Dr. Marshall R., Austin,
Tex.: 18 flies, including holotypes and
paratypes, from North and South
America (232026).

Wherry, Dr. Edgar T.
sylvania, University of)

White, Benjamin, Lexington, Mass. : 2
Quaker bonnets of the 19th century
(234254). ,

White, Carl F. (See Treasury, U.S.
Department of the)

Whitehouse, Mr. and Mrs. William,
Asheville, N.C.: 4 strengites from In-
dian Mountain, Ala. (234602).

Whiteley, Mabel W., Baltimore, Md.:
258 sewing birds, clamps, and related
needlework accessories, mostly 19th
century (235682).

Whitmore, Frank C., Jr. (See In-
terior, U.S. Department of the)

Wickes, Mr. and Mrs. William W.,
Washington, D.C.: Aubusson-type car-
pet (224691).

(See North

(See Penn-

Wiegering, William H. (See La
Gorce, John Oliver)
Wiesenberger, Arthur, Nippsholm,

Pound Ridge, N.Y.: Silver tea caddies
and bowl, Japanese calligraphic scroll,
and a certificate of authenticity
(228995).

Wiggam, Mrs. A. E., Santa Monica,
Calif.: 26 land patents entered under
an act of March 8, 1855 in memory of
Albert Edward Wiggam, donor’s hus-
band (235055).

Wighton, Mrs. Howard P., Silver
Spring, Md.: Quail (236026).

Wigley, Dr. Roland L. (See Interior,
U.S. Department of the)

Wike, John W., Adelphi, Md.: 106
U.S. Army insignia (232119).

Wild Heerbrugg Instruments, Inc.,
Port Washington, N.Y.: (Through H.
P. Tanner) Theodolite, Universal, Wild
T2 model 56, T2 Theodolite horizontal
circle, and Theodolite, Wild (231959).
186

Wilhelmson, C. A., Redwood City,
Calif.: Screwdriver (233774).

Wilkerson, T. V., Jr., Oakland, Calif. :
2 planchet strips used in 1943 for the
manufacture of zinc-coated steel cents
(232895).

Wilkes, James C. (See Witman, Mrs.
Mabel Foote, Estate of)

Wilkey, Richard, Sacramento, Calif. :
10 slides of springtails from California
(233284).

William H. Miner Agricultural Re-
search Institute, Chazy, N.Y.:
(Through Alexander Sokoloff) 321
beetles from New York (232187).

Williams, Dr. Alwyn, Belfast, Ire-
land: 251 brachiopods from the Girvan
district, Ordovician of Scotland
(231890).

Williams, Mrs. Edgar, Akron, Ohio: 2
souvenir badges from the Republican
nominating convention picturing Gen.
Charles Dick, with Mark Hanna and
President McKinley, 1900 (231937).

Williams, Mrs. Edward, Wayne, Pa.:
Wedding dress of 1911 (231400).

Williams, Mrs. Grace D., Washington,
D.C.: 2 pins from William McKinley’s
campaign, 1896 (2381872).

Williams, Dr. Louis O.
Natural History Museum)

Williams, Mrs. Robert H.
Triest, Mrs. Willard)

Williams, S. T. (See Scovill Manu-
facturing Co.)

Willis, Dr. Ben S.
University of)

Wilson, Mrs. Catherine, Miami, Fla.:
2 phanerogams from Costa Rica
(234806).

Wilson, Lt. Col. Ernest W., Arling-
ton, Va.: Nazi German banner and
sash (232063).

Wilson, Floyd, Micaville, N.C.: Bro-
chantite from Cerro Gordo District,
Inyo Co., Calif. (232088).

Wilson, J. H. (See Salem Tool Co.)

Wilson, R. Thornton, New York, N.Y.:
Oriental Lowestoft cider jug bearing
inscription “Jefferson and Liberty”
(235956).

(See Chicago

(See

(See Iowa, State

U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1961

Wilson, Dr. Thomas K. (See Cincin-
nati, University of)

Wiman, Virginia, Washington, D.C.:
Complete U.S. postal note bearing a 1-
cent postal note stamp canceled on
first day of operation, Feb. 1, 1945
(236138).

Wing, Chester E., Hastings, Mich.:
3,052 miscellaneous U.S. precanceled
stamps (235267, 235659).

Winters, H. H., Berkeley, Calif.:
9 archeological items from Sterling
City, Tex. (234800). ©

Wisconsin, University of, Madison,
Wis.: 4 grasses from Alaska (220700) ;
(through Prof. A. H. Easton) model of
heat engine laboratory (234028);
(through Prof. Arno T. Lenz) Ellis cur-
rent meter (231958).

Withers, Gilbert W., Atlanta, Ga.:
Rutilated quartz from Brazil (235881).

Witman, Mrs. Mabel Foote, Estate of:
(Through James C. Wilkes) 3 painted
Pennsylvania chests of the 18th century
(235942, bequest).

Witt, William L., Arlington, Va.: 191
fishes from Okinawa, also 41 crusta-
ceans, 170 mollucks, 51 insects, and a
gecko lizard (225567). (See also De-
fense, U.S. Department of)

Wohlschlag, Prof. Donald E.
Stanford University)

Wolf Safety Lamp Co. of America,
Inc.: Brooklyn, N.Y.: (Through D.
Anglada) 9 Wolf safety lamps and 2
hand magnets, 1903-54 (235037).

(See

Wood, D. M., Hamilton, Ontario,
Canada: 175 black flies from Ontario
(235828).

Woodring, Dr. Wendell P., Washing-
ton, D.C.: 485 marine mollusks from
Payardi Island, Atlantic Coast of
Panama (232184).

Woodruff, Mrs. Walter C., Brownville,
N.Y.: 2 dolls of the 19th century
(230771).

Woods Hole Oceanographic Institu-
tion, Woods Hole, Mass.: (Through
Dr. Robert J. Conover) 28 copepods
(230218); (through Dr. George D.
Grice, Jr., and Dr. Marvin Wass) 115
crustaceans (230761).
DONORS TO THE NATIONAL COLLECTIONS

Woods, Loren P. (See Interior, U.S.
Department of the)

Woodward, Dr. T. E., Brisbane, Aus-
tralia; True bug from New Guinea
(232188).

Woody, Ward, Sr., Green Mountain,
N.C.: Staurolite from Green Mountain
(231678).

Woolston, Evelyn May, Los Angeles,
Calif.: Coral and pearl necklace, 19th
century (232798).

Worth, Anthony L., Highland Park,
Mich. : 12 minerals from Scofield, Mich.
(231908).

Worth, Dr. C. Brooke, New York,
N.Y.: Paratype of a mosquito from
Ndumu, Natal (2383279).

Wright, Grace S., Washington, D.C.:
Ford’s Theatre playbill for the night of
Abraham Lincoln’s assassination
(232215).

Wright, Henry T., Annapolis, Md.:
68 pre-ceramie and ceramic archeologi-
cal items from Neweastle Co., Del.
(235611).

Wright, Dr. Stillman (See British
Guiana Department of Agriculture)

Wykes, Gordon E., Albany, N.Y.: Pin
with the name “Daisy” inscribed, 1894
(280807).

Yaffe, Paul, Baltimore, Md.: 2 min-
erals from Canada and New Mexico
(235527, exchange) ; enargite from Na-
tional Belle Mine, Red Mountain, Colo.
(231238, exchange).

Yale University, New Haven, Conn.:
39,204 ecryptogams representing the
herbarium of A. W. Hvans (231208, ex-
change) ; 58 wood specimens from Peru
collected by F. Woytkowski, 1959
(232202, exchange); 647 wood speci-
Mens (232203, 234809, 284810, ex-
changes). School of Forestry: 21
phanerogams from the Florida Keys
(231029) ; 80 wood samples and 65
herbarium vouchers (231743, 231746,
exchanges).

Yannone, Michael A., Washington,
D.C.: German bayonet, scabbard, and
scabbard frog, ca. World War II
(232062).

187

Yasumatsu, Dr. K. (See Kyushu Uni-
versity)

Yedlin, Neal, New Haven, Conn.:
Yedlinite from Newry, Maine and 4
anatase crystals from British Guiana
and New Hampshire (233824, 235752).

-Yerdon, Lucile, Fort Plain, N.Y.: Sign
from the campaign of 1892 (231784).

Yochelson, Dr. Ellis L. (See Heid-
ecker, Eric; Interior, U.S. Department
of the; Sturgeon, Dr. Myron T.)

Yohn, Mrs. Clarence Milton, Wash-
ington, D.C.: 3 antique samplers, un-
finished patchwork quilt, a man’s shawl
of the Civil War period and a silver
knife and fork from the Philippine Is-
lands (235642, 235913).

Yunker, Dr. Conrad E., Balboa
Heights, C.Z.: 15 mites from Florida
and California (231005). (See also
Health, Education, and Welfare, U.S.
Department of)

Yust, Harold R., Khartoum, Sudan:
112 miscellaneous insects from Peru
(2358384) .

Zaneveld, Dr. J. S. (See Caribbean
Marine Biological Institute)

Zemanek, A. F., Newgulf, Wharton
Co., Tex.: 2 sulfur crystals in calcite
(235164).

Ziesenhenne, Fred C. (See Southern
California, University of)

Zimmerman, Elwood C., Petersbor-
ough, N.H.: 74 miscellaneous insects,
mostly Lepidoptera, from New Hamp-
shire (234145).

Zoller Memorial Dental Clinic (See
Sapporo Medical College)

Zon, Mrs. Henry, Washington, D.C.,
and Bacas, Mrs. Harry, Arlington, Va.:
12 items of costume of the late 19th and
early 20th centuries (234865).

Zoo-Line, Hollywood, Calif.:
(Through Ralph E. Becker and Orel,
Jeannette V.) 3 “Republiphants”’, 3
“Democronkeys,” and 3 monkeys from

the 1960 #£presidential campaign
(236120).

Zoologisch Museum, Amsterdam,
Netherlands: (Through Dr. C. A. W.

Jeekel) 9 toad bugs from Melanesia
(2808638, exchange) ; (through Dr. J. H.
188

Stock) gorgonian and 2 parasitic co-
pepods, paratypes (229230, 233588) ;
(through Dr. K. H. Voous) 2 loons and
10 ducks from Holland (228870,
exchange).

Zoologische Sammlung des Bay-
erischen Staates, Miinchen, Germany:
(Through Dr. H. Freude) 2 beetles,

U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1961

cotypes, from South America (235241,
exchange).

Zoologisches Forschungsinstitut,
Bonn, Germany: (Through Prof. Dr. M.
Eisentraut) 17 small mammals from
Africa (230769, exchange).

Zumpt, Dr. F. (See South African
Institute for Medical Research)

U.S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE: 1961
Il

es

0 aes

soem”
ee
ree

te

ane!

mata ane ——

Poshne A he

ene

oie

5
.
4
“
_—~
~
«

ey

~~

we

°

* “

¥ aa
“S ‘
?
; -
* “

aed P en
: “dl
. a
x n we
d
> :
P
P
i
/
: ie - ——— a ean Se ae z s :
e = eae = cs
