¥
a i fas i a “a cel
es * » on *,

+e a nae 7
- + 7 i Ses .
* q ae
4 a ty
, x te
> mg
a a

ta ") ax if
tet ae fis ee

Sree

ie i rite

Carey ee
Sa Oe pe,

eee

Bate tse

eS
—

aa!

ow

cv ited de 4 LLM AE I III _
Js 2D 2») > DY DVB)
DP YDY II) D ) DY Y
> DD) IID DY») »)
I) DP DDD DI DY DD YD}
D>) DY») IID» yy». >
2D D YD OY OY  W DID
22D LQWDDD2D YD DI D
»»» RID DY» 1D DY) D D
) RIIWH.D D 353 yD)
>> DD 5IBDI3. D>») Dy»
yyy) )> YD DD? ID ; Be 23

>) DBO ID ID DD.

ID > DoDD) SBD)
>) DDD) Y) DOD IP I)
YY WY WNID ID)
DD DD DID DD NII»:
»2
p> 2355 PP > ae
»» BB) 3 >>> D <<

. ) DIF ee > S) > J vp }) 2 f é

> B23}? 3? >») 2
») DY DI)» YD» > 2». Bi : > 2
» ae DP yD YI» SD) ) WB

aa Gee ~~ > TA

core “4

ANNUAL REPORT

OF THE

BOARD OF REGENTS

OF THE

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION,

SHOWING

THE OPERATIONS, EXPENDITURES, AND CONDITION
OF THE INSTITUTION

vB Wo Ae Ri. BSS.

PA FET LE.

WASHINGTON:
GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE.
1885.
The Annual Report of the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian In-
stitution for the year 1884 consists of two parts, viz:

Part I.—Report of the Smithsonian Institution proper, showing its
operations, expenditures, and condition.

Part II.—Report of the United States National Museum, showing
its progress and condition.

II
BEEP ORT

OF THE

UNITED STATES NATIONAL MUSEUM,

§ UNDER THE DIRECTION OF

THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION,

FOR

Le Be yo AK. tSes2.

Ill
ANNUAL REPORT OF THE UNITED STATES NATIONAL MUSEUM
FOR THE YEAR 1884.

SUBJECTS.

Part IJ.—Report of the Assistant Director, upon the condition and
progress of the Museum in 1884.°
Il.—Reports of the Curators and Acting Curators of the several
departments of the Museum.
IiI.—Papers based upon the collections in the National Museum.
IV.—Bibliography of the National Museum for 1884.
V.—List of accessions to the collections.

IV
UNITED STATES NATIONAL MUSEUM,
Washington, January, 1885.
Str: I have the honor to submit herewith a report upon the present
condition of the U.S. National Museum and upon the work accomplished
in its various departments during the year 1884.

Very respectfully,
G. BROWN GOODE,

Assistant Director.
Prof. SPENCER F. BAIRD,

Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution and
Director of the U. S. National Museum.
2°), Pie te
TNE TERE |

anne F

i
oy
Fi y
4
im 4
ie f
: ‘
é
‘
r /
On
Le ;
*
Wi? f
_ :
i
1
Yy
§ 4
{
'p.
oi a
; j ot
ae ia :
A iN A) oe
nie ih

CONTENTS.

ee ee oo Ge tn ek int a o.oo EE wed ain

PRGA OTOP UTIOR o' . a)oe 3 55 Na qn ns Qcis n ceca ee eetee see Sonne Sion cbse

PR HIMMORIOCONTENTS | 250% so 52". <5 <0 <iniee santsjaneayson eee oes st abies se et CaS
ParRT I.—REPORT OF THE ASSISTANT DIRECTOR.

Pe ORG CONAIOCERUODS 22.052 eee a eens Ae See ta tec eas seen ce

PA INGPONUCLOLY TOMBE es senses es eee See ne ee meee eee aS

2. The foundation and scope of the National Museum...--......-.----

3. The fanctions and aims of the Museum....-.-..--.--.--.....-.-..-

4. The development of the Museum idea ...--....--...---...-..------

5. Principles of arrangement of collections for public exhibition --.. -

BM SVRLOMAOMOMASINGAUION co. see fost cn cee can cece aes tok ccu eee

eS mNIPEIREEY DUNNE AS 2D Ds ata nina Se nce abe Soe ace Sek e

Sep ine ROISNTING Spal essen cscs ee pase Coe ae seca toe ens ee awe neweS

Seth NO AUMINISHAUVO AUMo cos to sce soc sa sa ccte ooo eee we settee See eas

Ce NG CONGILON (OF th COMOGHONS "22/550 252.) occsn cee doce ones cebeiccwe veeuce

9. A provisional census of the collections ...................----.----

A EPANAIS MENG OF SACO 2 sleek ec nes see Bate hacen eee os eas sac ese ce

D.—Review of the administrative work of the year ...........--.-.--...---.--

EECA CCORSIONS 10) (HO;MLUSO HIN 2-25 6 ee ees Stee oo ere eam cece

12. Progress in classification and arrangement -.......-.-.--...---..---

(a) Laboratory work and catalogue entries ...-....---....---

(b) Development of the exhibition and study series. ....-...-.

(oe) Congiriotion.oiy Gases. 22 Wome sa seen soa cece oe eeee

(i) -Prpparmmon el taibeise 222025. Sct talo ties Ie go.

13. Progress of general and incidental work ...............-.-..--..--

(6)? LADIBEY «sree ce nedet ase = poste ana ee oe eee

(6) Distribution of duplicates and exchanges HPranoccost eee

(¢) Publications Cece tes 1 =cocee ster ee oe eee eee

Cy Wel EL: Cee ee a Se Seo ae ee RS!

(¢) ‘Students and lectures. <> 2222225 oo ese nee ane ee ee

(/) Bipoutaes Gf ociebies. * ... . 20 52 = ee ese ge east eas coke

pa; Coment sdninisivrative: Work ..- 555.2522 osenpoe nodes owe coe one

(a) Buildings and labor, police and public comfort ......._...

ey, saleehtee REEVIOG: 225%. 425. saree eee Seed ons co esce

(Oo) CEroperty an supplies. 2./. 2s eee ee EET

Rn POONER oe ncn oo Saas o es ee ce eka enews eee

(e) Chemical analysis of the air in the lecture hall of the Na-

SRSA A TION an w nhc cng ae Greece Ch nee &

15. The work of the Musenm preparators -.-....../.........-....----

Rie RANTS UR oon oo hc tet eee ns ae ue ek Ne

(0) Geteologiog! proparstor .. ice, 2-26 .oe0- w 300 woes vole wenn

I PUL ET LORS eee i=) 2 erie ete er oa af, ee ee

Ral te Ee SO ROREO NOE on oc cadee anu Sa wv eters unt nog Goo cewecewe = =

RG EMIS seme > so ce a atatie pee vane eee Nae ice es cakma en ee

(f) Preparators in the Division of Anthropology ......-....--

46
VIII | CONTENTS.

D.—A review of the administrative work of the year—Continued. Sissi
16. Work in connection with the expositions...-...--...--.......-..- 47
(a) The Cincinnati, Louisville, and New Orleans Expositions. . 47

(b) Closing the work of the London Fisheries Exhibition. .... 52
E.—Review of the year’s work in the Scientific Departments ...-..-.......... 53
17. Division of Anthropology...-.---- Be SHEE on ote ebo GaSe SSeees ccc 53
(a@). Arts and industries. : 53-2 seesen. Seas e eee oo eee ee 53

(0) Ethnology... .-~ <2. 22020 se een eens oe ee aes ee ee 56

(c) American prehistoric pottery. ->---- 2-52 422+ ---- eee eee 58

(d) Antiquities ....5. 22ee8 ster cep cece ee onto eee eee 58

18... Division Of Zoology: -<<<:.ce¥e ces oan clea aoe ee ee notes oe 59
(@) Mammals --.<-;-tnttee cece certo e heen e ce mtoree eeaeeieer 59

(0) Binds. So 2235 coeecscneccee seen ee eee ee ee eee eee 59

(c) Reptiles'and! batrachians<--2------ + sseae sneer eee se aaee 60

(d). Wishes) -..< $222 5360225262052 e cee eee ee eee c eee 61

(e); Comparative: anatomy +... - <=) cose eee eee eee 62

(7) Molluske ce tos eee holes opyeies Sola eens ee eee 62

(g) ansects 2-2 eee. sleet Soyo ees Bon eee eee eee aie 63

(h). Marine Invertebrates). s.-< 0 6-4 = seo sabe eae eeeeeeee 63

(@) Invertebrate fossils|(Paleoz0ic) e2c- nee se s-e eee eaten 64

(k) Invertebrate fossils (Meso-Cenozoic) ...----.----..------- 64

19° Division’ of Botany. 2s..c- see cos Satis asians esac oe eee eee ese 65
(a) Plants—fossil and recent) ...- 3=-.°- 42626 cstduada-smaiee seas 65

20;;. Divisionsof£-Geolopy 2). 2.cce cic 212 See cite aie aslo elem ipso eaters 65
(a) (Minera lopy ss: 228 scccc et maeod saeceoe eee a cee beer 69

€6) Lithology and physical ceology:. 2... 2 .6< .o0=beeen- ea ceen 66

(c) Metallurgy and economic geology .....-..--..------------ 67

21. Miscellancous!Departments =. 22-64) =e eee alee =e se pee 67
(@)-Explorationvand: field wotlks 32 scsi. ase e eee eee as 67

6b) "Chemistry So yo eee ek ain eae Roe erete ss aise lee ca eee 72

(ce), Experimentalip hy sioloty eos 2 oe aemcensce ease ee eee 72

(d)) Wivanlar ice Sse e tte meccie te te cease eee SA eee eheeere 72

Part II,—REPORTS OF THE CURATORS AND ACTING CURATORS.

Section of Materia Medica. By Dr. H. G. Beyer, U.S.N...---.----.----....--. 75

Section of Textile Industries. By Romyn Hitchcock..........-...---..---..- 79
Section of Naval Architecture: By J-oW,, Collims=-- 22-0 -ceseceees ee serene 85
Section of Hoods:- By Romyn Hitchcock ® = oe cee a sees se eee eae eee ree eg
Department of Ethnology. By Drs. Uo iMason) soe sen es essee ee ee ae =e 109
Section of American Aboriginal Pottery. By William H. Holmes ..-....--.-..- 121
Department of Antiquities. By Dr.-Charles Rau...--..---...----.-.--...-.-.. 123
Department of Mammals. By Frederick W. True.....-.....-....---.--.-.-.- 129
Departmentiot Birds: “By RoberteRidowaye-seeecessee eens ee eee 143
Department of Reptiles and Batrachians. By Dr. H. C. Yarrow.-.....-.-..---. 157

Depariment of Fishes. By Dr. Tarleton H. Bean (including also report upon
Ichthyological Explorations made in behalf of the Museum by Dr. D. S.

OLEAN) pace a SoS ueccte bc wie he > win ds Se Ee eo eee ree ee ee 161
Department of Mollusks. (By Williams Dalleeses eee meee ee eee eee 179
Department of Insects. By Dr. C. V. Riley..---...-.----. DE eRe ee Ne oa. ere 185
Department of Marine Invertebrates. By Richard Rathbun.....--...---.---- 189
Department of Invertebrate Fossils (Paleozoic). By C.D. Walcott.....--..-.- 203
Department of Invertebrate Fossils (Meso-Cenozoic). By Dr. C. A. White -... 215
Department of Fossil Plants: By Lestersh. Wardecses sos -]-a25- sees 219

Department of Mineralogy. By, Prof: PW .i@larkers = seco eee aea oe eee 221
CONTENTS. . IX

Page.
Department of Lithology and Physical Geology. By George P. Merrill... ....-. 227
Department of Metallurgy and Economic Geology. By Fred. P. Dewey .--...-.-- 239
PakT II].—PaPrERS BASED ON COLLECTIONS IN THE NAtlONAL MUSEUM.
I1.—Throwing-sticks in the National Museum. By Otis T. Mason .........-. 279
11.—Basket-work of the North American Aborigives. By Otis T. Mason. .... 291
III.—A study of the Eskimo Bows in the U. 8. National Museum. By John
POTN er eee oat saa atid te Cs Ne ae Dae ee cy Sea Sk As Tae 307
IV.—On a Spotted Dolphin, apparently identical with the Prodéiphinus doris
op Gray.. By Frederick W. True: 222022 kde oe: SPP Soe 1
V.—The Florida Muskrat, Neofiber Alleni, True. By Peederiak W. Peas SE
VI.—On the West Indian Seal, Monachus tropicalis, Gray. By Frederick W.
PETROVA: i. Acs LOSS x25) ma ae Gias een ae ee oe Reece en 33)
Part IV.—BIBLIOGRAPHY OF THE U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM FOR 1884.
ati LUD UOGAMONS Oi ie MURERIN \: 2: 2). .0226 2... 28 ebccus codes eens eule esl Oooo
Puce. 21. capers by Officers of phe Museam ..... .. 22. nese. soos snk ene ensues 345
Part III. Papers by investigators not officers of the Maan based on Museum
ROGUE ere eis See Bee href Sk eel ce gk duwiceenee sues 371
Part V.
Ne ee eure, ie y agatha er iN aere i,
: “ae plist om Wei Mia

Bb Wiis” 4h seth Heth

N95.

fee oT

REPORT UPON THE CONDITION AND PROGRESS OF THE UNIPED
| STATES NATIONAL MUSEUM IN 1884.

BY

G. BROWN GOODL, AssISTANT DIRECTOR.

—_— as = a — —___——-=

S. Mis. 33, pt. 2——1 '
REPORT UPON THE CONDITION AND PROGRESS OF THE UNITED
STATES NATIONAL MUSEUM IN 1884.

A.—GENERAL CONSIDERATIONS.
1. INTRODUCTORY REMARKS.

During the year the oflicers of the Museum have continued the work
of arranging the material under their charge in the exhibition halls,
laboratories, and store-rooms at their disposal.

It should be remembered that the reorganization of the Museum was
begun late in 1881, at the time when the new Museum building was first
made ready for occupation, and that 1884 is but the third year of sys-
tematic effort. Much progress has been made in removing from the
exhibition halls the great mass of unclassified material which had been
gathering for many years in the various store-rooms of the Smithsonian
building and elsewhere, and which, on account of lack of space, had for
the most part been allowed to remain in the original packing cases.

The floors of the Museum have at last been almost cleared, and at
present only three of the seventeen exhibition rooms are occupied for
storage purposes, viz: The southwest court, which is still full of speci-
mens belonging to the departments of metallurgy, mineralogy, and
lithology ; and the southeast court, which is used as a general recepta-
cle for empty cases and unmounted material belonging to the depart-
ments of zoology and anthropology. Before the end of February this
work will be completed.

The additions to the Museum have been far more numerous and val-
uable than in any previous year. The activity of every department
has been greater, both in respect to progress made in the administration
of the collections and in respect to the number of scientific papers pub-
lished by the officers in connection with their professional studies upon
the specimens under their charge.

By direction of Congress the Smithsonian Institution, in connection
with the Executive Departments of the Government and the Depart-
ment of Agriculture, has participated during the year in the industrial
expositions at Cincinnati, Louisville, and New Orleans.

Having been designated by yourself, and appointed by the President,
representative of the Smithsonian Institution (including the National
Museum and Fish Commission) on the Government Executive Board,

3
4. REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884.

eharged with the representation of the interests of the General Govern-
ment at these expositions, I have devoted the greater portion of my
time during the latter half of the year to the work of preparation, an
account of which will be given in fuller detail hereafter. Nearly every
department of the Museum has necessarily been called upon to assist in
this work, and a large proportion of the activity of the force has con-
sequently been diverted to this channel. Although the progress of
regular work has thereby suffered much interruption and delay, it is
hoped that the service will eventually be benefited and final organiza-
tion accelerated rather than impeded. At the present time the exposi-
tion at New Orleans is in progress, and the collections sent thither by
the Museum cover a space fully equal to one-third of the entire exhibi-
tion space in the Museum building in Washington.

In accordance with established custom, the exhibition work has been
carried on entirely under the direction of the regular Museum officers,
assisted by such additional workers as it was found practicable to en-
gage temporarily. Many of our officers accompanied the collections to
superintend their installation in the exposition building. Several of the
curators are at present absent in New Orleans and will be obliged
to return to that city at the close of the exhibition, in May, to attend to
the packing and return of the collections.

Following established usage, I have reviewed the work of the several
scientific departments of the Museum, as well as that of the division of
administration. The reports of the curators of the several departments
are presented in full, their extent and importance being so great as to
render this necessary. In my ownreport I have included an account of
the operations of the department of arts and industry, for the present
assigned to my care, in preference to preparing a special curator’s report
upon this department: the reports of certain of the curators of “sec-
tions” of this department are, however, furnished with the others.

In the present report, as in those which have preceded it, certain
suggestions relating to the administration of the Museum are made for
which I desire to be held individually responsible, and which the reader ~
should not assume to be definitely determined elements of the policy
of the Museum, since they may, any or all of them, at some future time,
either in their present forms or with modifications, be recommended for
adoption, or pronounced undesirable. .

This being the first of the separately printed series of Museum reports,
some statements which have already been printed in previous reports are
repeated, in an abridged form, for the purpose of presenting a general
exhibit of the policy of the Museum.

It had been the desire of myself and my associates to present in this the
first report of the new series a somewhat exhaustive statement of the
present condition of the Museum, together with a review of its past
history as a whole and of its several departments: the exigencies of
Exposition work having made this impossible, we hope to prepare such
a report for the coming year.
REPORT OF ASSISTANT DIRECTOR. 5

2. THE FOUNDATION AND SCOPE OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM.

Foundation and legal status —The National Museum was organized in
1846 by the act of Congress transferring to the Smithsonian Institution
the custody of the “‘ National Cabinet of Curiosities,” at that time de-
posited in the Patent Office building.* These collections were, in 1857,
placed in the Smithsonian building, the Regents of the Institution hav-
ing accepted the trust on condition that the necessary appropriations
for their maintenance should be continued by Congress.

The act above referred to provides that ‘all objects of art and of
foreign and curious research, and all objects of natural history, plants,
and geological and mineralogical specimens belonging or hereafter to
belong to the United States, which may be in the city of Washington,”
shall be delivered to the Regents of the Smithsonian Institution, and
together with new specimens obtained by exchange, donation, or other-
wise, shall be so arranged and classified as best to facilitate their
examination and study.t

The National Museum is the authorized place of deposit for all objects
of natural history, mineralogy, geology, archeology, ethnology, &c.,
belonging to the United States or collected by the Coast and Interior
Survey, the Geological Survey, or by any other parties for the Govern-
ment of the United States, when no longer needed for investigations in
progress.

Organization and government.—The establishment of the Smithsonian
Institution, to which, in addition to the carrying out of the other re-
quirements of the bequest of Smithson, is intrusted the control of the
National Museum, is composed of the President of the United States
and his Cabinet, the Commissioner of Patents, and a Board of Regents,
which has for its members the Vice-President and Chief Justice of the
United States, three members of the Senate, three members of the
House of Representatives, and six other persons, not members of Con-
gress, two of whom are residents of the city of Washington.§

The management of the National Museum is intrusted to the Secre-
tary of the Smithsonian Institution, who is, ex-officio, its director. He
is aided by a staff of assistants, who are chosen by him, and for whose
action he is responsible to the Regents. The constitution of the staff is
constantly changing with the varying needs of the Museum.

This staff is at the present time composed of an assistant director,
six curators and five assistant curators, twelve honorary curators, serv-
ing without pay, a number of aids, acting in various capacities, a reg-

* An Act to establish the “Smithsonian Institution” for the increase and diffusion
of useful knowledge among men. (Approved August 10, 1846; Revised Statutes,
title Ixxiii, sections 5579-5594.)

t Revised Statutes, section 5586.

t Statutes Forty-fifth Congress, third session, chap. 182, p. 394,

§ Revised Statutes, 5580,
6 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884.

istrar, chief taxidermist and chief modeler, besides a considerable force
of preparators, mechanics, watchman, clerks, laborers, We.

The collections are stored and exhibited in the building erected for
the use of the Smithsonian Institution between 1847 and 1857, and in
the new building, just finished, known as the ‘‘ National Museum.”

Composition of the collections.—The Museum is made up, in large part,
of the following materials: :

1. The natural-history and anthropological collections accumulated
since 1850 by the efforts of the officers and correspondents of the Smith-
sonian' Institution.

2. The collections of the Wilkes Exploring Expedition, the Perry
Expedition to Japan, and other naval expeditions.

3. The collections of the scientific officers of the Pacific Railroad
Survey, the Mexican Boundary Survey, and of the surveys carried on
by the Engineer Corps of the Army.

4, The collections of the United States Geological Surveys under the
direction of the United States Geologists Hayden, King, and Powell.

5. The collections of the United States Fish Commission.

6. The gifts by foreign Governments to the Museum or to the Presi-
dent and other public officers of the United States, who are forbidden
by law to receive them personally.

7. The collections nade by the United States to illustrate the animal
and mineral resources, the fisheries, and the ethnology of the native
races of the country, on the occasion of the International Exhibition at
Philadelphia in 1876, and the fishery collections displayed by the United
States in the International Fisheries Exhibition at Berlin in 1880 and
at London in 1883.

8. The collections given by the Governments of the several foreign
nations, thirty in number, which participated in the exhibition at Phil-
adelphia.

9. The industrial collections given by numerous manufacturing and
commercial houses of Hurope and America, at the time of the Philadel-
phia Exhibition and subsequently.

10. The material received, in exchange for duplicate specimens, from
the museums of Hurope, Asia, and Australasia, and from numerous in-
stitutions and collectors in North and South America.

Adjuncts to administration.—All necessary adjuncts to the work of
the Museum, a working library, a chemical laboratory, a photographic
establishment, a workshop for taxidermy, modeling, and the prepara-
tion of skeletons, and several smaller workshops are carried on as a part
of the general work of administration.

Publications of the Museum.—The scientifie results of the labors of the
officers of the Museum, and of investigations upon the collections be-
longing to it, are to be found for the most part in the following works;

sulletin of the United States National Museum ;

Proceedings of the United States National Museum ;
REPORT OF ASSISTANT DIRECTOR, 7

Reports of the Smithsonian Institution ;

Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections ;

Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge ;

Reports of the Bureau of Ethnology of the Smithsonian Institution ;

Reports of the United States Commissioner of lisheries ; .

Bulletin of the United States Fish Commission ;
also occasionally in other scientific reports of other scientific depart-
ments of the Government, especially those of the United States Geo-
logical Survey, many of whose oflicers are also honorary oflicials of the
Museum.

A catalogue of the scientific papers emanating each year from the
Museum or based upon Museum interests has been published cach year
since 1851 in the Sinithsonian Report.

-—

3. THE FUNCTION AND AIMS OF THE MUSEUM.

Objects and methods of work.—The collections in the National Museum
are intended to exhibit the natural and industrial resources, primarily
of the- United States, and secondarily of those of the remainder of the
world, for purposes of comparison.

The activity of the Museum is exerted in three directions:

(a) The permanent preservation of objects already in its possession.

(b) The acquisition of new material.

(c) The utilization of material already in its possession, by its exhibi-
tion in the most instructive manner, and by the prosecution of and pub-
lication of scientific researches for which it forms the basis; by the dis-
tribution of properly-labcled duplicates of materials to colleges and
other educational institutions.

The preservation of material is accomplished by means of the vigilance
of the curators and the skill of the preparators.

New material is acquired (a), from the various Government surveys
and expeditions, in accordance with law; ()) by gift from individuals,
from other institutions, and from foreign governments; (¢) by exchange
for its duplicate specimens or publications; (d) by the efforts of officers
of the Museum, who make collections in connection with their regular
duties, or are detailed for special service of this nature; (e) by purchase
when appropriations are made by Congress for that purpose.

The treasures in the custody of the Museum are utilized to the world
by exhibiting them to the public, and by encouraging investigations on
the part of the officers of the Museum and other suitable persons, and
facilitating the publication of the results; also by the distribution to
other museums and educational institutions of duplicate specimens,
which have formed the basis of scientific investigation, these being
identified and labeled by the best authorities.

The Museum by these means fulfills a threefold function :

1. It is a museum of record, in which ave preserved the material foun-
dations of a very great number of scientific memoirs—the types of
8 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884.

numerous past investigations. This is especially the case with those
materials which have served as a foundation for the numerous govern-
mental reports upon the resources of the United States. Types of in-
vestigations made outside of the Museum are also incorporated.

2. It is a museum of research, by reason of the policy which aims to
make its contents serve as fully as possible as a stimulus to and a foun-
dation for the studies of scientific investigators. Research is a neces-
sary part of the work, in order that the collections may be properly
identified and arranged. Its officers are selected for their capacity as
investigators, as well as for their ability as custodians, and its treasures
are open to the use of any trustworthy student.

3. It is an educational museum of the broadest type, by reason of its
policy of iliustrating by specimens every group of natural objects and,
so far as it may prove practicable, such other colléctions as may be
found useful for the instruction of the public which are explained by
displaying descriptive labels adapted to the popular mind, and by its
policy of distributing its publications and its named series of duplicates.

4. THE DEVELOPMENT OF THE MUSEUM IDEA.

Periods in the history of the Museum.—The history of the National Mu-
seum may be divided into three periods: First, that from the foundation
of the Smithsonian Institution to 1857, during which time specimens
were collected purely and solely to serve as materials for research, no
special efforts being made to exhibit them to the public or to utilize
them except as a foundation for scientific description and theory. See-
ond, the period from 1857, when the Institution assumed the custody of
the “National Cabinet of Curiosities,” to 1876. During this period the
Museum became a place of deposit for scientific material which had
already been studied, this material, so far as convenient, being exhib-
ited to the public, and, so far as practicable, made to serve an educa-
tional purpose. Third, the present period, beginning in the year 1876,
in which interval the Museum has entered more fully into the addi-
tional task of gathering collections and exhibiting them on account of
their value from an educational standpoint.

In the first period, the main object of the Museum was scientific re-
search; in the second, the establishment became a museum of record
as well as of research; while in the third period is growing up the
idea of public education. As soon as a judiciously selected series of
objects from the material already within the walls of the Museum can
be displayed properly to the Museum visitors, the National Museum of -
the United States will have commenced to fulfill all the demands which
are likely ever to be made upon it.

The three ideas of scientific research, record, and education, co-opera-
tive and mutually helpful as they are, are essential to the development
of any comprehensive and philosophically organized museum. Materials
are gathered together that they may serve as a basis for scientific
REPORT OF ASSISTANT DIRECTOR. 9

thought. Objects which have served as a foundation for scientific
study, or which, from their historical significance, are treasured up and
preserved from destruction that they may serve purposes of record—
permanent land-marks of the progress of the world in thought, in cul-
ture, or in industrial achievement—they are not only records of what
has been done in the past, but they constitute the most valuable of all
materials for future study. The museum of record, then, is not only an
accessory to the museum of research, but an adjunct which accom-
plishes similar and fully equal results in the same direction.

The contents of the museum of research and the museum of record,
if no other objects be sought save those already mentioned, might with-
out impropriety be stored away in vaults and cabinets, inaccessible to
any except the specialist. To give them their highest value, however,
they should be arranged in such a manner that hundreds of thousands
of people should profit by their examination instead of a very limited
number, and that they should afford a means of culture and instruction
to every person, young or old, who may have opportunity to visit the
place in which they are preserved.

It is much to be regretted that many specialists, intent chiefly upon
the study of certain scientific problems in which they individually are
absorbed, are disposed to neglect the claims of the educated public
to the enjoyment and instruction which museums afford. They do not
hesitate to say that scientific museums should be administered for the
benefit solely of persons engaged in research. At a recent meeting of
professional naturalists, an eminent investigator in natural science pub-
licly expressed his opposition to exhibiting certain scientific collections
to “the gaping clowns who form the majority of the visitors to our
museums.” Such a spirit defeats its own purposes, and such a remark
deserves no answer. The experience of Europe with its magnificent
educational museums and the history of the several expositions in the
United States should be quite sufficient to satisfy any one who has
studied the matter that the museum is an educational power even more
influential than the public library. 4

The venerable director of the South Kensington Museum, speaking
from an experience of thirty-five years, not only in his own establish-
ment, but in the work of building up the score of sister museums, now
under its wing, located in the various provincial towns of Great Britain,
remarked to the writer: ‘“ We educate our working people in the pub-
lic schools, give them a love for refined and beautiful objects, and
stimulate in them a desire for information. They leave school, go into
the pursuits of town life, and have no means provided for the gratifica-
tion of the tastes which they have been forced to acquire. It is as
much the duty of the government to provide them with museums and
libraries for their higher education as it is to establish schools for their
primary instruction,”
10 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884.

The educational musewm is Of comparatively recent origin, and may
be said to be one of the outgrowths of the modern industrial expo-
sition. The World’s Fair of London in 1851, the first of a long series
of international exhibitions, was utilized by the Government of Great
Britain as a starting-point for a number of national educational mu-
seums, the most perfect which have as yet been organized, and many
subsequent World’s Fairs have been taken advantage of in a similar
manner, so that nearly every civilized country now has a system of
public museums. ‘

One of the results of the Philadelphia Exhibition of 1876 was that
it made plain to the people of the United States the educational
importance of great museums. It suggested the thought that if so
much that is inspiring and instructive can be imparted by the exhibi-
tion of natural and manufactured objects gathered together, chiefly
with commercial ends in view on the part of the exhibitors, neces-
sarily somewhat unsystematically arranged and with little effort to-
ward labeling in an instruétive manner, an immense field is open for
educating the public by gathering together a selected series of sim-
ilar objects, wlich may be so classified and explained by means of
labels and guide-Looks that they shall impart a consistent and sys-
tematic idea of the resources of the world and of human achieve-
ment.

The United States has as yet no system of educational museums, al-
though there are several museums of limited scope, which have success-
fully carried out the educational idea in the arrangement of their ma-
terials; for instance, the American Museum of Natural History in New
York, the Museum of Comparative Zoology in Cambridge, the Museum
of the Peabody Academy of Sciences in Salem, the Philadelphia
Academy of Natural Sciences, the Boston Museum of Art, the Mciro-
politan Museum of Art in New York, the Pennsylvania Museum of In-
dustrial Art, the Peabody Museum of Archeology in Cambridge, the
Peabody Museum of Yale College, and the Boston Society of Natural
History.

The same remark applies with equal force to the museums of Eu-
rope. There are, however, institutions, like the Museum of Practical
Geology, the museum of the Royal College of Surgeons, the museums
at Bethnal Green and South Kensington, in London, the Museum of
Industrial Art at Berlin, the Ethnological Museum at Leipsic, the
National Museum of Germany at Nuremburg, the Bavarian National
Museum at Munich, and others, which have admirably carried out a
single idea, or a limited number of ideas, and which are marvelously
rich in material and arranged in a manner full of suggestiveness.

The museum now under the charge of the Smithsonian Institution
has, through the action of influences beyond the control of ifs manage-
ment, in fact by the terms of the act of Congress which authorizes its

i ll el ee
REPORT OF ASSISTANT DIRECTOR. 11

existence, been made the depository of collections in every depart-
ment—geological, botanical, zoological, and anthropological—and its
work has of necessity been organized upon a very Comprehensive pian.

5. PRINCIPLES OF ARRANGEMENT OF COLLECTIONS DESIGNED FOR
PUBLIC EXHIBITION.

The majority of visitors to any museum go thither for amusement, or
actuated by praiseworthy curiosity. Many have no desire to gain in-
struction, and even if actuated by such a purpose, would fail to accom.
plish their object by a visit to an ordinary museum. This is due in
part to the fact that where so much duplicate material is exhibited the
really instructive objects are lost to view; that the objects in but few
museums are labeled in a really instructive manner; but is principally
because the objects exhibited are not of the kind best adapted to the
needs of the museum-visiting public. The visitors carry away only gen-
cral impressions of rooms full of glass cases containing animals, min-
erals, and “ curiosities,” gathered by travelers among uncivilized races.
Professor Huxley has defined a museum as “a consultative library of
objects,” and this definition, true enough in itself as a description of
the best ideal museums, is unfortunately too true a description of all.
Most collections are as useless and little instructive to great masses of
our people, who know not how to use them, as are our libraries of
consultation. The museum of research, since it is intended chiefly for
investigators, should be the consultative library. The educational mu-
seum should resemble a great encyclopedia rather than a library full of
learned volumes. Every library of importance, however, contains the
cyclopedias for the general reader and the monographs for the scholar,
The larger public museums may in like manner be adapted to the needs
of both student and general visitor.

To overcome the difficulties in the way of this adaptation many steps
must be taken which are not usual in museums. By far the most im-
portant of these is in the direction of thorough labeling.

An efficient educational museum, from one point of view, may be
deseribed as a collection of instructive labels, each illustrated by a well-
selected specimen.

There are many obstacles to the effort to build up a museum upon
this basis. Museums which exhibit only such objects as are in them-
selves beautiful or marvelous cannot fail to be attractive, no matter
how poorly the objects are arranged and labeled.

When, however, the objects depend for their interest upon the expla-
nations on the labels, and upon the manner in which they are placed,
relatively to each other, a responsibility a hundred-fold greater is en-
tailed upon the curators. The materials of such a museum may be com-
pared to piles of brick, stone, lumber, and architectural ornaments,
which by themselves possess little apparent interest, but which may by
thought and labor be combined into an imposing and useful edifice,
12 "REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884.

Principles of administration.—Certain cardinal principles may be
announced which should be considered in the arrangement of every
public museum: (1) every article exhibited should illustrate an idea,
and no two objects should be shown which illustrate the same idea in a
similar manner; (IL) the idea which any object is intended to illustrate
should be explained upon its label in such a manner that any intelli-
gent visitor, without previous special knowledge of the subject, may
be able to learn (a) why the object is shown, and (b) what lesson it is
intended to teach; (III) the objects should be so carefully classified
that their relations to each other may be recognized by the vigitor, so
that taken together, they shall suggest general conclusions; in the
formation of these conclusions he should be aided by certain general
or collective labels which relate to and describe groups of objects
in a manner similar to that in which the individual labels describe
separate articles; (IV) the labels, individual and collective, should be
supplemented by guide-books and manuals for special departments,
which shall contain, arranged systematically, all the information given
upon the labels, and which shall be illustrated by engravings of the
more important objects.*

Industrial museums, as a rule, exhibit only those articles which are
designed and constructed in the most sumptuous manner—the armor of

* The following general rules have been formulated :

1. No object will be placed on exhibition which is not of evident educational value,
and likely to interest and instruct a considerable percentage of the persons visiting
the Museum.

2. The exhibition of duplicate material is to be avoided, except in instances where
similar objects can be shown to advantage in different divisions of the Museum.

3. Each object will be placed in a case of the form best suited for its effective dis-
play, and the light, color of the background, &c., will be so adjusted as to show
it to best possible advantage, and with the least possible fatigue to the eyes of the
visitor.

4. Each object, or group of objects, will be accompanied by a large plainly printed
label, which will give a concise description of what is shown, an account of its origin
and uses, a synopsis of its history, and the name of the person or organization con-
tributing it to the Museum. The character of the Museum is such that any labels
which might suggest advertising for business purposes must be excluded. It will
be the policy of the Museum, however, to give prominence on each label to the name
of the person or business house from whom it has been received, provided that the
object is a gift to the Museum.

5. The objects will be grouped together in systematic order, and each case will be
provided with a general descriptive label. In the case of collective exhibits, the gen-
eral label may also give the name of the contributor.

_ 6. The specimens will be illustrated and supplemented by pictures, diagrams, books,
and maps, in such manner that the Museum may form an encyclopedia, the illustra-
tions for which are in the exhibition cases, the text in the labels.

7. Guide-book manuals of the different departments will be published, which will
embody in concise and systematic form the information given by the specimen labels,
together with such illustrative material as may seem necessary to present in addi-
tion.
REPORT OF ASSISTANT DIRECTOR. 13

kings and knights, the furniture of palaces, the most artistic of metal
work, stone work, and wood work. The ethnological museums, on the
other hand, admit only the implements and costumes of savage and
partially civilized races. Between the two there is a great chasm to
be filled. It is as important to preserve in museums the more humble
and simple objects which illustrate the domestic economy and customs
of the masses of the people of civilized nations, as to search for similar
objects in distant lands, or to treasure up only the objects which, on
account of their cost, are seen and used only by the most wealthy and
luxurious classes in the civilized community.

Collections of this character are, perhaps, as well entitled to be called
“anthropological collections” as those usually included under this
name, which are intentionally more limited in their scope.

To supply the place of objects too large to be placed in a museum, too
evanescent to have been preserved, or which, on account of their rarity
or neglect in preserving them at the time when they could have been
obtained, are necessarily lacking in the collections, it is essential that
museums should assume the administration of great quantities of mate-
rial such as is usually consigned to the library or to the picture-gallery.
Otherwise, deficiencies in groups of objects, ‘which should illustrate by
their collective meaning a general idea, will much impair their value.
Pictures and diagrams should be freely used as temporary or permanent
substitutes for specimens which may be lacking, and also to supple-
ment and explain the descriptive labels. In many sections it may be
impossible to exhibit anything but pictures. It is needless to point out
the difference in the influence of a series of plates, like those, for in-
stance, in Audsley and Bowes “ Keramic Art in Japan,” the publica-
tions of the Arundel Society, the autotypes of Braun, or the illustrations
of many ethnographic works, if displayed in a public museum, where
they are seen daily by thousands of visitors, or hidden except from the
initiated few in a library, where they are only practically accessible to
students with abundance of time and training in the use of books.

Much of the material usually shown in art galleries and art museums,
such as is ordinarily used to illustrate the history of art, or is preserved
on account of its artistic suggestions, may be displayed in a much more
instructive manner in a museum without in the least lessening its value
to the artist or designer. Portraits, pictures of buildings, of costumes,
of geological features in scenery, of ceremonies, and of social customs
may be arranged and administered as anthropological specimens. In
addition, much may be accomplished by having standard works, re-
lating to the special departments of the museum, placed in convenient
places in the exhibition halls, and, if necessary, fastened to desks in

such a manner that they could not be removed, while easily accessible

to any person who might wish to become informed upon special topies
relating to objects being examined,
14 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884.
6. SYSTEMS OF CLASSIFICATION.

The chief requisite to success in the development of any museum is
a thoroughly available plan of organization and a philosophical system
of classification.

The arrangement of the natural-history collections—zoological, botan-
ical, and geological—which will doubtless always constitute a very
large proportion of the treasures of the National Museum, and which
will undoubtedly in the future, as at the present, occupy the atten-
tion of at least three-fourths, if not more, of the Museum staff, is a
simple matter, since naturalists are pretty generally in accord as to the
affinities of different groups to one another, and since the grouping of
the objects in the Museum cases may be made to accord very closely
with the schemes laid down by systematists. When, however, it is
necessary to take up the arrangement of collections which illustrate the
history of human eulture, the lack of a convenient and instructive sys-
tem becomes very apparent.

Much thought has been devoted to these subjects by the officers of
the Museum, especially during the past four years. Many of the prin-
cipal museums of Europe-have been studied, their catalogues and pub-
lications minutely compared, and correspondence carried on with their
officers. It is hoped that the plans which have been developed as the
result of these labors may include the best features of similar plans
hitherto proposed, but it is undoubtedly true that no plans can be laid
down, except in a tentative way, since the experience of cach year re-
veals possibilities and impossibilities not previously thought of by the
student of museum methods. .

In my first report, published in 1881, I printed a scheme of classifi-
‘ation for the anthropological collections which, in certain quarters, did
not meet with favor. It was a purely tentative effort, published for the
purpose of inviting criticism, and not in any way supported by official
sanction. Some of the criticisms which it called forth were evidently
just and will have due weight in planning for future work. The scheme
referred to has been objected to by museum administrators because
it breaks up their favorite and time-honored method of geograph-
ical arrangement. It is the result of the experience of the oflicers of
this Museum that it is absolutely impossible to handle our immense
collections if we adhere to the methods of older and smaller establish-
ments. It is well known that some ethnological collections should be
arranged geographically, some teleologically, some with reference to
materials of which the objects are made.

In this Museum in different departments of the work we shall doubt-
less find it convenient to employ all these systems.

Our collections are at present being arranged in accordance with a
teleological rather than geographical plan of classification, objects of a
similar nature being placed side by side, musical instruments together,
REPORT OF ASSISTANT DIRECTOR. lo

weapons together, &c., and arranged in such a manner as to show the
progress of each idea from the most primitive type. In discarding the
ethnographic method of arrangement, however, special care has been
taken not to sacrifice the possibility of bringing together the objects
belonging to any particular locality or race, if this shall at any time
be required for purposes. of study.

In our method of installation, objects are mounted in glass-covered
trays or deep frames, 24 by 30 inches in dimension, which are arranged
’ for study or exhibition in cases of various forms. The articles belong-
ing to two different tribes are never mounted together in the same tray;
and if at any time it should be found desirable to bring together the
collections from any given race, for instance, from the Eskimos, the
Siamese, or the Japanese, this might be accomplished in a few hours ;
in fact, when once the present system of mounting has been completed,
the rearrangement of the Museum upon the ordinary ethnographic plan
would be the work of only a few hours, and may be effected by a small
force of mechanics and laborers under the direction of a single curator.

It is no part of the plan, nor has it ever been, to separate articles
which belong together. The parts of any collection or group of objects
which may justly be considered a unit of administration are always kept
together; for instance, if a costume is complete it is not intended to
dissect it and distribute its parts. The separate elements of a costume
are only placed by themselves when they have no related objects asso-
ciated with them. In the same way a costume of a family, whether com-
posed of two or ten individual suits, might with propriety be regarded
as a unit. Collections illustrating the history of a special tribe in a
monographie way may also with propriety be kept tagether. Sucha
collection would, however, not be assigned to the department of art and
industry, where the preferred method of arrangement is evolutionary
or progressive, but would rather be made over to the department of
ethnology. F

The studies of the collections already made by Professor Mason, the
new curator of Ethnology, reveal the fact that there is really no con-
flict between a systematic scheme classification and a geographical one,
because, in those series of objects which have already been arranged,
the one scheme has always proved to be explanatory of the other.
They are mutually beneficial; indeed, it is impossible to understand the
one without studying the other.

B.—THE MUSEUM STAFF.

The staff of the Museum as now organized consists of two classes of
workers—the scientific officers, and the administrative officers; the
former reporting to the Director of the Museum, the latter to the As-
sistant Director, who also has general supervision of the administra-
tive work of the curators.
LG es REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884.

7. THE SCIENTIFIC STAFF.

In the scientific staff of the Museum there are at present nineteen
curatorships, some of which are subdivided below, so that the number
of heads of departments and sub-departments is twenty-five, and the
total number of menin the scientific staff thirty-six, of whom twenty-
four are in the pay of the Museum, and the others honorary, five being
detailed for this duty by the Director of the United States Geological
Survey, one by the Director of the Bureau of Ethnology, others by the
United States Commissioner of Fisheries, and by the Secretary of the
Navy, while two are volunteers. It may be stated here that the de-
tails just referred to are in every instance made in the interests of
co-operation with those Government bureaus engaged in work closely
connected with that of the Museum. The paleontologists of the Geo-
logical Survey find itso much to their advantage to have access to
the paleontological collections of the Museum and the use of the
laboratories, storage cases, and general administrative machinery, that *
they are permitted by their chief to assume the responsibilities of cura-
torships and perform a general work of supervision; and the mineralo-
gists and the curator of aboriginal pottery are similarly situated. In
nearly every instance, however, the Museum supplies the honorary -
curators with assistants, who relieve them of much of the routine work.

The curatorships are now organized as follows:

DIVISION OF ANTHROPOLOGY.

Department I.—Arts and industries, the Assistant Director acting as
curator (A. Howard Clark, assistant, two preparators), with subeurator-
ships as follows:

(a) Materia Medica. Dr. H. G. Beyer, U. 8. N., honorary curator,
with one clerk.

(b) Textile Industries. Romyn Hitchcock, acting curator.

(c) Fisheries. R. Edward Earll, curator.

(d) Animal Products. R. Edward Earll, acting curator.

(e) Naval Arcbitecture. Capt. J. W. Collins, United States Fish Com-
mission, honorary curator.

(f) Foods. W.O. Atwater, acting curator.

(g) Historical Relics.

In this department, it may be stated, is administered very much of
the material, such as is usually arranged by museums in their ethno-
logical series, and the Curator of Ethnology is consequently acting as
adjunct curator in the Department of Arts and Industries.

Department IT.—Ethnology. Dr. Otis T. Mason, curator, with one
preparator and two clerks.

Department ITI (A).—Antiquities. Dr. Charles Rau, curator, I. P.
Upham, assistant.
REPORT OF ASSISTANT DIRECTOR. 17

Department ITT ().—Aimerican Prehistoric Pottery. W. H. Holmes,
Bureau of Ethnology, honorary curator, Dr. {bdward Foreman, assistant,

one preparator.
DIVISION OF ZOOLOGY.

Department TV.—Mammals. Frederick W. True, curator, one clerk,
two preparators.

Department V (A).—Birds. Robert Ridgway, curator, Leonhard
Stejneger, assistant, one clerk and one preparator.

Department V (B).—Birds’ Hggs. Capt. Charles Bendire, U.S. A.,
honorary curator (volunteer), and one clerk.

Department VI.—Reptiles and Batrachians. Dr. H. C. Yarrow, hon-
orary curator (volunteer).

Department VII. Fishes. Dr. T. H. Bean, curator, two assistants

' detailed from the United States Fish Commission.
Department VIII.—Comparative Anatomy. Frederick W. True, cura-
_ tor, F. A. Lucas, assistant, and one preparator.

Department ILX.—Mollusks. W. H. Dall, curator, R. E. C. Stearns,
adjunct curator, both of U. 8. Geological Survey, one clerk.

Department X.—Insects. Prof. C. V. Riley, honorary curator (vol-
unteer).

Department XI.—Marine Invertebrates. Richard Rathbun, U. S.
Fish Commission, curator, one assistant, and one clerk detailed from
the United States Fish Commission.

Department XIT (A).—Invertebrate Fossils, Paleozoic. C.D. Walcott,
United States Geological Survey, honorary curator.

Department XIT (B).—Invertebrate Fossils, Mesozoic and Cenozoic.

, Dr. C. A. White, United States Geological Survey, honorary curator,
J. B. Marcou, United States Geological Survey, honorary assistant, one
clerk.

DIVISION OF BOTANY.

Department XIII.—Fossil and Recent Plants.—Lester F. Ward,

United States Geological Survey, honorary curator, one clerk, one pre-

parator.
DIVISION OF GEOLOGY.

Department XIV.—Mineralogy. Dr. F. W. Clarke, United States
Geological Survey, honorary curator, W. 8S. Yeates, assistant.

Department X V.—Lithology and Physical Geology. George P. Mer-
rill, acting curator, one preparator.

Department XVI.—Metallurgy and Economie Geology. Fred. P.
Dewey, curator.

A comparison of the above classification with that presented in the re-
ports for 1883 willshow changes in the following particulars, namely, that
the scope of the Department of Arts and Industries has been augmented
during the year by the addition of two sections: (1) Naval Architecture,
of which Capt. J. W. Collins is the honorary curator, and (2) Animal
9

18 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884.

Preducts, in charge of R. Edward Earll, as acting: curator. Mr. Earll
has also been acting as curator of the section of Fisheries. For greater
convenience the section of Foods and Textiles has been reorganized in
two divisions: (1) Textile Industries, Mr. Romyn Hitchcock as acting
curator, and (2) Foods, under the direction of Prof. W. O. Atwater.

To the Division of Anthropology has been added the Department of
American Aboriginal Pottery, under the honorary supervision of Mr.
W. H. Holmes, of the Bureau of Ethnology. The Department of
Ethnology has been organized under the curatorslip of Prof. Otis T.
Mason, taking the place of the Department of Races of Men in the
classification as given in the report for last year.

The Division of Zoology has been increased by the addition of (1)
the Department’ of Birds’ Eggs, Capt. Charles Bendire, U.S. A.,
serving, as honorary curator; and (2) the Department of Compara-
tive Anatomy under Mr. F. W. True, assisted by Mr, F. A. Lucas.
The three Departments of Crustaceans, Worms, and Radiates and Pro
tozoans, as classified in 1883, have been merged in one, the Department
of Marine Invertebrates, under Mr. Richard Rathbun. Department
XVI, Physical Geology, under the old classification, is now an adjunct
of the Department (XV) of Lithology under the direction of Mr. George
P. Merrill; and the Department of Mineralogy, which was in 1883 con-
nected with that of Lithology, is now Classified separately.

8 THE ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF.

The classification of the departments in the Division of Administra-
tion remains essentially the same as detailed in the report for last year,
and is as- follows:

Department A.—Direction. This department is tinder the immediate
charge of the Assistant Director, who, as executive officer to the Di-
rector, has general supervision of the routine work in all the depart-
ments, the care of the installation of specimens, the construction of
cases, &c., the purchase of supplies, &c., the assignment of work and of
apartments, leaves of absence, curators’ reports, and routine correspond-
ence. The organization of the offices of the Director and Assistant
Director has not been materially changed during the year, except that,
on account of the increase in efficiency of the other departments of the
Division of Administration, a considerable amount of routine work, with
its accompanying responsibilities, has been transferred from the Assist-
ant Director to the heads of these departments. During the absence of
the Assistant Director for five weeks during the summer, on business
connected with the preparation of the Smithsonian exhibit at the World’s
Exposition in New Orleans, Mr. F. W. True was designated to act in his
place. Mr. hi. J. Geare, executive clerk, has rendered most efficient
service in the Assistant Director’s ottice,
REPORT OF ASSISTANT DIRECTOR. 19

Department B.—Registry and storage. This department is in charge
of Mr. 8. C. Brown, whose duties pertain to the reception, unpacking,
and assignment of accessions and other packages, the packing and ship-
ment of boxes, &c., the storage of accessious subject to the call of cura-
tors, and the custody of department catalogue books.

Department C.—Archives. Mr. 8. C. Brown also has charge of all
papers relating to accessions and the distribution of Museum materiai.

Department D.—Library. Mr. F. W. True, librarian.

Department H.—Publication. Dr. Tarleton H. Bean performs the
duties of editor of “* Proceedings” and “ Bulletins.”

Department ’.—WLabels. My. A. Howard Clark in charge. His duties
consist in the arrangement of material for labels, in receiving the printed
labels from the printer, and in arranging a duplicate set of labels for
reference.

Department G.—Duplicates and exchanges. Mr. 8. C. Brown in
charge. The work of this department includes the distribution of du-
plicate collections for exchange and the custody of the files relating to
applications and proposals for exchange.

Department H.—Property and supplies. Mr. C. W. Schuermann in
charge. All cases, furniture, and supplies of all kinds are under his
care, and are distributed by order of the Assistant Director.

Department I.—Accounts. <All disbursements are made by the Dis-
bursing Clerk of the Department of the Interior. Estimates for sup-
plies and the general care of contracts and orders are included in the
work of this department.

Department K.—Buildings and labor. Mr. Henry Horan, superin-
tendent, in charge. In this department are included the care of police
and inspection, mechanics and labor, construction and repairs, clean-
ing and, public comfort, heating and lighting.

Department [.—Electric service. In this department are embraced
the telephone service, time service, burglar-alarm service, and watch-
clock service.

Department M.—Preparation. This department is divided into sev-
eral sections, each of which is in charge of a preparator, and is thor-
oughly discussed in another portion of this report.

Haposition staff—In addition to the regular administrative staff of the
Museum, an administrative staff for exhibition work has been maintained
since July, 1352, under the general charge of the Assistant Director.
Mr. Rk. Edward Earll is the executive officer, and Mr. W. V. Cox finan-
cial clerk of the staff, which is increased from time to time as occasion
requires by the employment of extra clerks and preparators, and to
which also, when necessary, are detailed various officers of the Museum
scientific staff. In addition to the exhibition work of the year else-
where referred to, this staff is still engaged in the preparation of a re-
port upon the International Pisheries Exhibition at London, in 1883,
20 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884.

C.—THE CONDITION OF THE COLLECTIONS.

The custodianship of the specimens of the several departmeifts has
been conscientiously fulfilled by the curators with the assistance of the
various preparators. Jam confident that the material in the possession
of the Museum has never been in better condition than itis at the
present time.

9. A PROVISIONAL CENSUS OF THE COLLECTIONS.
Estimated number of specimens now in the several departments of the National Musewn.*

; : No. of specimens.
Department of Arts and Industries:

(@) Materianmedi¢a,= .-- ccc: oes ae cee ee See ee ee eee eee ae 4, 442
(6) Lexiileindustries 22s cers ween ee con eee asen sae ae Sasi eerie ane nUOU
(ec) Wisheries. - = -cs.cc 5.50 sce ss we cot op cee ee et eeeeen es seme seer ee eee 5, 000
(@) “Animal products 2222-2 eee eee eee ae fee hyd MES Setweed IYI 1, 000
(e) Nawal/architecture st: 22 .c2s2- 5s eines coh oe cieitasy= ose eats eee eee 600
Cf) Poodss.2s22 2. ccewaeues o. ow ee ce eet ena eee eee cise aeee aae eee 1, 580
Department. ot HMthnologyscacsee ap wees ech oni a en dae ceo ee aeea eee 200, 000
Department of Antiquities soos see-m aaa cele cease seein ees aclea ee leceaes 45, 252
Department of Prehistorie Pottery. 2st. .oco.s 2 = en eos eeaeieeme eae alecenenos 12, 000
Department of Mammals } Skins and alcoholic specimens......-.--- 5, 694 ; 9, 908
Skulisiand'skeletons. 205-222-2922. e2eeee 4,214
ID reyae me pecresoun) Ove IIa 8) Coe eae ch Hodowo demeascsgess o2bedegseose 50, 350
IDEpaArporent OL DITdy Weegee esse ewe em oe ete ene el taller eet eee eee 40, 072
Department of Reptiles and Batrachians-...---....--.......---------.--- iss! 23,495
Deparhment ofbishes:sseeeressaeea a eee aes See ae saan e te seme mes tee Beamer 68, 000
Department of Comparative Anatomy (department not organized) . ...-.-.. 3, 000
IDE SE TAH en AH ORE MOIR se Skah oe SENS Bos a SSSA onesor Sadsiao Peosaoescs 400, 000
Department of Tosects: .. 2.2.5 8s -.c- . sens seer eben Renae eee ce tela ne ns pecat SReLOue nn
Department of Marine Invertebrates .... 5-7. 2-6-5 dacceacess > ue cree eres 200, 000
Department of Invertebrate Fossils (Paleozoic),.......--.--.- woe eee eee nnne 73, 000
Department of Invertebrate lossils (Mesozoic and Cenozoic) ....-..-------- 100, 000
Departmentiof, Plants, tossilandmrecent). - = 5-7- ee gee nee eee eater 7, 291
Depantment of Mineralogye=: --.eeeee aes eee eee eee See eae 16, 610
Department of Lithology and Physical Geology ...........----------------- 18, 000
Department of Metallurgy and Economic Geology ..-.-.-----..------------ 40, 000
Total co. he eo eens Ske rn foe eae ee eee feta ole le tacra teen 1, 471, 000

10. ASSIGNMENT OF SPACE,

There has been made no material change in the assignment of exhi-
bition space, as described on page 2 of my report for 1883. The north-
west court will probably be opened during 1885 with the collections of
North American pottery. The exhibition space for the collections of
the metallurgical department will shortly be increased by the opening
of the southwest court.

In the Smithsonian building the four main halls are occupied as they
were in 1883, and as follows: Main hall, Ornithology; upper main

*These estimates do not take into account the actual number of specimens, but
refer to ‘‘lots” of specimens, which may include one or several punaren but which
are included in a single entry of the Museum register,
REPORT OF ASSISTANT DIRECTOR. Fi

hall, Pre-historie Archeology; west range, Ichthyology; west hall, In-
vertebrates. ;

The south galleries of the Smithsonian main hall have been cleared,
the exhibition cases, which were old and unserviceable, having been

. taken down and used for other purposes, and the gallery spaces assigned

for laboratory use. The southwest gallery is now occupied by the
ornithological department for a work-room, and for storage of the great
collection of unmounted bird-skins; the southeast gallery is similarly
occupied by the conchological department.

The large room adjoining the northeast pavilion in the Museum
building is now used as a depository for the oological collection, and as
a laboratory for the section of birds’ eggs.

The office of the Director of the Geological Survey having been re-
moved elsewhere, the northeast pavilion is now occupied by the chemi-
eal and physical laboratory of the Survey. The southwest pavilion is
being fitted up for the accommodation of the mammal, metallurgical, and
mineralogical laboratories; the west balcony is used as a laboratory for
ethnology; the north balcony for the department of textiles, and the
south baleony for plants, recent and fossil.

The photographer of the Geological Survey having vacated the rooms
for several years occupied by him in the brick annex, second story, the
workshop of the taxidermist attached to the department of birds has
been transferred thither.

The Armory building, with its wooden annex, occupied jointly by the
Museum and the Fish Commission, is still crowded with unassorted
material belonging to the Museum collections.

In order to provide suitable accommodations for the preparators, in
connection with the preparation of the exhibit for the three expositions
of Cincinnati, Louisville, and New Orleans, and also to give much-needed
space for packing the collections to be sent, it was deemed advisable
to construct a wooden building east of the Museum building. On July
15 the work of breaking and leveling the ground was commenced. The
annex is 15) feet long, 50 feet wide, and 50 feet high. The eastern
end was assigned to the modeling department of the United States
Geological Survey. The southwestern portion was occupied by the tax-
idermic force of the National Museum, and in the northwest part the
packing and general exposition work was carried on. The cost of this
annex was about $3,500, expended as follows:

Siro TROL Opa 100) PULGING =: 2. kos pe cree oasa ees s saceadee wee - $10 00
Constraction........- Se es Sse So sok oe eee Alktcats Sets GTS Ue Le Se, ABD 3,055 41
PRIME oe ie esc ie a toad 1s ooo nao dlc oap et Oy bo dein het 257 76
RIE RUT ce So wide hc eal ois sc nsw wns a ee alae Ch wow cea ce st 131 11
PEERIR EERE cat wht Orn a rela eh Som oF o's a oni rear ee I oes mabe aly ele ace Wan & 60 00

RRR Cy ass cos ge m <=! wp id hd EE RE Paw aig sia ce a war gt sie 3,514 28

Two wooden sheds, one to be used as a poisoning-house for skins, &e.,
and the other, for the preparation of the colleetion of building-stones
22 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884.

for the New Orleans Exposition, were erected in July between the Mu-
seum and the Annex building.

The need of an additional Museum building is each year more se-
riously appreciated. Very many objects of great interest and requir-
ing a large space for their accommodation have been promised by ex- |
hibitors at New Orleans, and it is a serious problem to know where
these can even be stored, aside from the possibility of properly display-
ing them.

Extensive collections of alcoholic specimens are known to greatly
endanger the safety of museum buildings and their contents, and most
of the establishments in Europe have lately taken the precaution to
construct separate buildings peculiarly adapted for the purpose. It is
sincerely hoped that the application which was made at the last session
of Congress for an appropriation to put up a similar building in the
grounds of the Institution will be acted upon favorably.

D.—REVIEW OF THE ADMINISTRATIVE WORK OF THE
YEAR.

11. ACCESSIONS TO THE MUSEUM.

The total number of packages recorded by the registrar during the
year was 5,507. In addition to this number, 209 wagon-loads of boxes,
packages, &¢., were received and distributed to the several depart-
ments. Of the entire number, 3,509 packages, boxes, &c., were ad-
dressed to the National Museum and its officers, the remainder being
intended for the Smithsonian Institution and the United States Fish
Commission.

The registrar of the Museum acts also in the capacity of transporta-
tion clerk for the Smithsonian Institution, and much material passes —
through his hands with which this report has no concern. The total
number of individuals and institutions sending collections to the Mu-
seum, as shown in the list published in the appendix to this report, is
a 084.

It should be stated that very many of the objects sent in by the
correspondents of the Museum are of very little value, and are trans-
mitted simply for the purpose of obtaining a report upon their names
and character. It has been the policy of the Smithsonian Institution
to receive all objects offered which have any relation to its work, since
the majority of such contributions, after they have been identified and
studied, are valuable for exchange or distribution to museums and in-
stitutions of learning, and often prove to be of unexpected importance.
Many of the specimens sent in for examination and report are entirely
useless. It is hardly proper, therefore, to consider each one of the 3,500
packages received as constituting an important contribution to the col-
lections. Many of thefa, however, contain specimens of great value,
REPORT OF ASSISTANT DIRECTOR. 23

The Museum has, during the past year as in previous years, received

accessions from the following sources :

(a) By gift from correspondents.

(b) By exchange with institutions at home and abroad.

(c) By the deposit of the collections of the various surveys and Goy-
ernment departments which here find their legal repository.

(d) From the work in connection with the several expeditions.

(e) As a result of the explorations carried on under the patronage or
with the co-operation of the Smithsonian Institution and Museum.

Mr. John Durand has rendered efficient service in negotiating ex-
changes with European museums.

Every important accession is fully described in the reports of the sev-
eral scientific departments.

12. PROGRESS IN CLASSIFICAT#0ON AND ARRANGEMENT.
(a) Laboratory work and catalogue entries.

By “laboratory work” is meant the work of the curators upon the col- —
lections in their special apartments, which are not open to the public.
Here the collections are received, unpacked, classified, identified, and
catalogued ; here also it is determined whether specimens should be
placed in the exhibition series; or, if not thus assigned, whether or not
they are sufficiently important as material for investigation in the study
Series, or should be called “duplicates” and distributed to other insti-
tutions.

The efficiency of the Museum work depends, in a large degree, upon
the facilities which are afforded to curators for careful and thorough work
in the laboratories. It is here that the specimens are indelibly marked
with the catalogue number, upon which all future authentications de-
pend. Here also must be prepared the labels, upon which the value
of the exhibition series to a great extent depends; and here are prose-
cuted the scientific investigations, which, through the publications of
the Museum, establish the reputation of its scientific staff for thorough
and accurate work. The laboratory accommodations are being im-
proved, but still there is much to be desired in respect to space, number
of clerical assistants, and facilities for the use of books and instru-
ments and other appliances.

In a museum, as in a temporary exposition, the efficiency of each
department depends also upon the energy and constant presence of a
thoroughly competent head, and consequently upon the opportunities
afforded him for good work in his laboratory.

The present organization of the Museum is of such recent date that
nearly all the curators are still embarrassed by the accumulations of
past years, and the greater portion of their time is necessarily devoted
to unpacking and overhauling the unelassified material which they
found already on hand when they assumed the duties of their present
ofiices. These heritages from the past will soon be under control, and
24 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884.

it may be expected that our next year’s report will show a great increase —
in the amount of work directly concerned with the preparation of the
exhibition series, of final labels, of catalogues and hand-books, and the
prosecution and publicrtion of original researches.

The activity of 1884 may best be gauged by the following table, which
shows the total number of entries made in the Museum registers of the
several curatorships: :

; No. of || No. of
. of was; entries || No. . entries
ae a8 Name of department. during ree Name of department. eee g
1884. 4 1884.
I Arts and Industries (general)...| 4,429 || XI Marine Invertebrates:
Materia Medica...-.....---- 398 Crostacéas cece ceeccwcansmes 2, 924
Textile Industries .......-.-| 1, 683 "WORMS 2243s strech pee seeees 151
Tye SS Rees aes oe se See 420 : Tunicates and Bryozoa ..-.-.- 89
Historical Relies.--------.-- 200 Radigtestc.c4-coss8 seem ee 1, 858
IL a Dy label} (ay bn qe eerede ae penees Role Foe 1, 184 || Protozoa and Sponges .. Be 645
Tia \| Antiquities sss askers ele 4, 367 | Invertebrate Fossils (Pale oz0ic) : 564
IIIb | American Prehistoric Pottery -- 603 || Invertebrate Fossils (Mesozoic
IV Mammals')o. -chc..6+e0-sseumse oe 711 || | »G@enozoie) 2. beast cee SSee 1, 159
Va IBINGS eee s tswuee eee eee se ae 85142)|| Xila@ |) Wossil Plants .:.-2.-...s20=<<cs55 97
Vb Birds Weegee ows cose eee. 3,°222))|| XE | Mineralogy ..:3=2-2--.-s22-55.--5' 2, 307
vel Reptiles’: 25. j Ss sass 595252. 222. 584 itholopy. 222. (see ieee 2, 541
IVER SRN BS ee totem ae eee eel 3,05) eXeUEL | Metall coe aac eens 11, 021
VIII | Comparative Anatomy.......-.. 547 || XIV —-
Ix MOUSE Ruste ceca n skeen s 5, 231 XV Vote)! soe ee ees ase 58, 195
x AMSSCES soa. s Wee eee ae ee 53 || XVI

(b) Development of the exhibition and study series.

The “ reserve series” in the Museum includes all the specimens which
are retained for purposes of study, the exhibition series consisting of
objects which are suitable to be exposed to public view in glass cases,
selected from the reserve series of which it forms.a part. The study
series is formed by the residue, which are kept compactly stored either in
cases in the laboratories or in the closed tables which serve as pedestals
for the smaller show-cases in the exhibition halls.

The study series for any special group may generally be largely re-
duced in extent after an exhaustive monograph has been published
upon that group, it being the long-established policy of the Museum to
reserve only a sufficient number of specimens to permit the author of
such monograph to entirely rewrite it, should the manuscript of his
essay be destroyed.

Much progress has been made during the year in ‘many departments
in the work of separating the duplicate from the reserve series, and
in many of the others in the work of preliminary classification, which
is the necessary preparation for this task. The development of the
exhibition series is necessarily slow, since it is not considered desir-
able to place on exhibition specimens which are not fully explained by
printed labels. It is, to be sure, often necessary to expose to view
large objects which have not been labeled. The extent and nature of the
work of the Museum is not appreciated by persons who are not familiar
with the character of the laboratory work and who have not access to
the reserve stores. In the various departments of ethnology and indus-
REPORT OF ASSISTANT DIRECTOR. “25

trial art, for instance, the wealth of the Museum is exceedingly great,
but until cases have been built and labels printed it is impossible prop-
erly to display it.

Although very much has been done for the development of the exhi-
bition and study series, it is certain that during the years 1885 and 1886
the Museum will improve in attractiveness to the visitor and general
student, and in convenience to the investigator and special student, to
a degree which has not in past years been in any way approximated.

The exhibition series has been greatly extended during the year by
the work which has been done for the several expositions, numerous
specimens having been mounted and labeled, which after. their return
may be placed at once on exhibition. Many objects have been acquired
especially for use in this exposition work, which are equally desirable
for the regular exhibition work of the Museum.

During this year, special improvements have been noted in the exhi-
bition halls devoted to mineralogy, lithology and physical geology,
metallurgy and economic geology, textile industries, fisheries, and na-
val architecture.

(ce) Construction of cases.

It is hardly necessary to remark that no part of the work of the Mu-
seum at present occupies so much of my attention as the construction of
cases, since the supply at present on hand is far from adequate to our
needs. The “furniture and fixtures appropriation ” which Congress has
made annually since 1880 permits each year the building of a large
number of cases. At the same time the capacity of the Museum build-
ing, with its laboratories and work-rooms, is exceedingly great, and up
to the present time certainly not more than one-half of the requisite
amount of case room has been obtained. In my previous report was
given a statement of the number of cases in the Museum at the begin-
ning of the year 1883. Appended is a list of the cases added during
the year 1884:*

*Case C:

hioeoorscreen cases,S.6 by U.S: Dy 7) ...250.s5.c-2oucwepsn conteeee ed ele dee 10

ies) OoOr-nareeh Cases, 6:6. Dy, 2:2: DY. s<asos aapas wn awiowanrenscate tlds ie eb ok 10

(9 in.) Door-screen cases, 8.6 by 9 in. by 7...-.. ... 222 ceecnceceees cencee wees 1
Case D: 3

ii olging-sereen eases, 8.6 by 1.3. Dy 722csc. coon tase zeae cen week ad 10

ioe Ep ain r-sCrep ne Canes, 6.0) DY. 1.3 DY Vassceun eae eecneee ec Le peut asa 10

ion maine -soreon CA805- S60 by 1.3 Dy: ticades sesso ekeaewc cs. Sscees cues 4
Case F:

BOMGCEOnnen CASES (RALE DILAD) . 5. \5\2 p< dared toa chd Sin reine a’ was beslomres 10

PO MERC RE LU AIDIOR 2c sors ois mss = ai wale ae eee rete aperercia tae eee 300

OTS DOD OED as leis cc's isin = own isinete cee eee OiLe shee cowated 55

Slope-top cases....-. Sais woe ow ole cid alg Bee eae eee orc a Shoeteter ace eeaae 6
Case H:

PAUIOCUPLIP NE CAROS -- cb <i-4- cease euumouenate 3 Se A Re re ard OPTS 10

RE RACTETE INS faa ww og ois ss RR a We be eh Wes Wee Ses ke Pou s 6
Case I:

BPOVU TM ORSOR = vee ot Lis odo eee ete ee Hate aie MAS has aie te 40

Eis Des ARON Tes OS Se eR mare Oe eo Boe de OL hase hare hes oa 12
26 ~ REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884.

The names by which these cases are designated will of course be un-
intelligible to those who are not familiar with the nomenclature adopted
inthe Museum. Our system of case construction, which has been briefly
discussed in previous reports, is entirely different from that in use in
any similar establishment, and is admitted to be unusually economical
and effective. We are constantly called upon by the officers of other
museums for descriptions and working drawings. I have in prepara-
tion, and hope to present in the report for 1885, a full description, with
illustrations, of the various methods of installation which have been
adopted. .

The main features of the plan are as follows: The cases are, as a rule,
of mahogany, finished in the natural color, and have been constructed
in accordance with artistic plans furnished by Mr. William Bruce Gray.
Their chief recommendations are the following: (1) the building con-
sisting practically of a single large hall; the cases are so constructed
that they may placed between any two adjacent pilasters, and thus
form partitions dividing this hall into seventeen halls of lesser ex-
tent; (2) the cases are all of one length, 8 feet 8 inches,* which is the
architectural unit of the Museum building, or are of such lengths that,
combined together, they always conform to this unit, so that they are
interchangeable ; (3) the construction is such that, with very slight ex-
penditure of labor, any one of them full of specimens can be transported
from one part of the building to another, thus allowing great freedom
in the matter of rearranging the Museum; (4) all the smaller specimens
are mounted in groups upon small tablets or in glass-covered boxes of
uniform size, which can be handled with great facility, and which afford
great security to the specimens, and diminish immensely the labor of
properly caring for them; (5) the objects are displayed against back-
grounds which at the same time afford the greatest ease to the eye of
the visitor and the greatest relief and effectiveness to the object dis-

Unit=table\cases (terraced section). 222 o- a. emic ates se eee ee eee 14
Tabletop cases (MOVADLO)oe- ace eee eee che hee gee Dae eye ere eer 20
Casey saUmibidrawerst se eecetes eet eor see Cena Seema ee canoe aioe ee ate eee 1, 386
Case Ke. Umit boxes ote eee eee ee cee ee Reece arenas ernest terete 210
Case L. Wall upright cases, 10 by 10 by 9. .2-22.0 veel seen duet tet oheslet 1
Case M. Salvin bird cases...'.....---.-.-----,----+--+----+ ++ +--+ 2-2 eee eee 4
Case'O. Basement, drawer storage cases: : $22. J. 222 see anit sacs aielnieses 21
Case be: Sectional library Cases ce ccc cs wie tte etselae ele eos evelete oleae ele ee eee 6
Case S:
Ogarterimit-table casesic-ate-- = stoners Set eee eee (ieee eae eee 20
Kensington cases-------- Senos a nasa oe a g5 Sect es Se Boe 20
(ORULING CAXCS Previa ene eels ae eee Sen eee eee eee ee eee 1
CardiCatslOoOue CASES veces cine = a een Om eee ee eere eee (6st ccs athe ee eae 7
MSDUSCrIp UiCASES pacce seins eae peek o scenes See CREE e sos See centers 2
Manuscript drawers): os. ss v5) 325 2 Sass Solem Seale eee aia we oho eit eee 421
Amatomicali cases... cine su vem el! ot eet et ee ee ee eee ate eer eene
BramicliPaplessCA86 iene wocie nce eee hea ae a eee ee a nate ee eens 1

“As a matter of fact, the cases are made a little scant in length, to provide for con-
venient handling ; they actually measure about 8 feet 6 inches.
ee

A .REPORT OF ASSISTANT DIRECTOR. 27

played ; (6) the objects being shown singly against a suitable back-
ground, and at the same time brought as close as possible to the glass
front of the case, the sense of confusion, so often experienced in mu-
seums, is entirely avoided; (7) the labels are printed in large, heavy-
face type and upon paper of soft tints, which are much less wearisome
to the eye than the ordinary labels in black and white.

Important additions of storage cases and furniture have been made to
the laboratories of several of the curators, and all the laboratories are
now better supplied than ever before. The storage cases in some of
these departments are built in four sections in height, occupying only
the same floor space as the one-section cases and accommodating four
times the quantity of specimens. Each curator is supplied with a light
ladder, affording easy access to the upper sections.

The laboratories in which the greatest improvements have been made
during the year are those of birds, fishes, mollusks, insects, invertebrate
fossils, fossil plants, lithology and physical geology, minerals, and met-
allurgy and economic geology. The following statement shows the
pumber and kind of storage cases and other furniture at present in use
in the various laboratories

Ethnology :
PROMO eran Aeon oan ee asa Sate ee pioas Jo Geet at teed avecleedwes 14
IINNERE CORRE. ats te aA aoS. 5S sonatas gtib seenewecseees a
Standard pigeon-hole stack ......-.-. Uehiss = She tiee hy, Sees Bee, Seas LaeS 1
MMII DOS oa es bos Seat a a Rese Ske sss a ee Soe ne ed Hoes so 12
UR TPOMOHIAN 202 S300 tobe succes sadn qn saan Sok poh, SUNITA Asie 2
Mammals:
Sectional library cases ..-.....:........-. Fi sch y Bi ke ee 1
EIT AGIL-ODNOBNT oe ce ae come ce =< Ee Ue ee A ee eel ease 3
BIMErG: DICCOM-DOMM BIACKA ln. Geass 23 iocus dose. Sodswh Je Jeae oot nd Ons oee ne 4
“OPUS Pa Ge ee a oe ee ae a Segeendst seen tse AI a tede tae 6
Birds:
SERNALIELITED CURDS See Settee MCN ta a Sie cas an base caae eens nanese Saceee 16
SELLOE LIDERLY: CONON Sra. sae. fete e as £ oes se cece an cae sepaueneay emesiatas 4
Pianeand piccon-hole stacksys) 2. os 22h oes gs. 5. Rls .s vst desde soces Send 1
NST 2 01 CN aS ee ee ee ie Ne es Eg ps Al ue es 2 OO

Fishes:

PRUSSIA LOPE Y) CORO: 7 355/503 Wack 2 ook ye eh eee, GR eee he eae o 8
Card catalogue cases ......- erp apeey er rrmh ee BO 4A bh ee SWE ee FPr) ty ea 1

Mollusks :

Basement-drawer storages (1 containing 2 tiers; 4 containing 3 tiers)-.-.----. 5

Insects : ;

PeUnLinleprarcs Gonos re se! sf) 2). ) i 3h fe ee ee ee toa c ceae ee LL
BS EES SES ESET OO OPA Rees Pha ese RES U1 LS ee ed 2

Marine invertebrates :

BERGA NEAT WI COROR) aos". ss ots 25am EER ated nasal cdek ob ie
PAROLE DIGECtHNOLS SLACKS » 2 2.7.4.0 adase eens ees aetna cl oe Soa aces 2
CAD APL EEA IO) ae RS 4 aR i A) 2 el ae ea eee on eee 4
PRONE AE CICHEOD AS Io. fo. 1)5. 2 Jvc eee eS toe aun aid bo acunke won’ 1

Fossil invertebrates (Paleozoic section) :

Basement drawer storages (1 containing 3 tiers; 1 containing 4 tiers)....-.-- 2
I OL I RC BT Pt 2) Ge DE ae Ae SY PaO ee 2

RRB IRTRCIEE EELS aes Serer, TS ME ee on ce een Beye ee Se cea is
28 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884.

Fossil invertebrates (Mesozoic and Cenozoic section) :
Basement drawer storages (1 containing 1 tier; 2 containing 3 tiers; 1 con-
taining 6 tiers) <2. 4250S atc eecek SS ocee ada ete ee cee eee ee ee

Sectional library. cases). -i2.5-(. seen ea ee ene yee neereeiee Eee ee wlate moet 4

plandard sheli-stacks «<5 /-canniscseien +s beee-s aces mene ae ee aoe eae eees 2

COuoarher Gales 2 cbse. oe on clas cares wie Sets Sek woe celos AE oe ot BOE ean Seer 1

Fossil plants :

Wnitttablés 2 Yocc. 202 Leese SoU eee sees ee ee ee ee eee 4
jasement drawer storages (1 esi 2 tiers; 1 containing 4 tiers; 2 con-
PAINING.D GIOLS)/-:- 2.2 snes ct ae eee oe eee meee Sie wemeldadtes oe ae cisiee ey

Sectional library Gases <s.225). 4.20.5 -- ac evic sil eee ene Gan eeee Ree eee 1

Qirarber tales: occ rives cele iomes ten A COREE eee One icianloa Base ee eee 11

Lithology and physical geology :

Unit tablesis% soth sew ee cs ee eee enemas 1
Basement drawer storages (containing 4 tiers) ....-...---.-.----------- sete HL
Sectional: librany.cases! cus ad skh ces ee ere eee ee eee 1
Standard shelf-stacks -........ ate are ee aie bis Sielals okmeteenee eee eoeee 4
Standard pigeon-holestacks:_./ =o... ce -- o oenen doce ete oe eee ee

Quarter tales Soe eS eee he ee ee ee he ae ee ae a ee
Minerals: :
Basement drawer storages (1 containing 4 tiers; 2 containing 8 tiers; 1 con-
haiMinig.9 thers) 226 seis ela Nat Dee EK eo ae 2 laa Ee cee a A ee 4
Siaidand WPeCDN-NGle SACKS. cece Seay Ct eee 2 a eee ae
Metallurgy and economic geology:

Basement drawer storages (containing 4 tiers) . ee et ctateta exe palatal ate eta ns et nen Le
HPECHONAUTIDVATY CASEB eis cute ee oie ieee I tet aT sea Ee Tp gp aR
Standard pigeon-hole' stake tio. coe kel eal cis iS SL ne See in 5

LAV ELH array ey ft] 0) Us] Wes Wenge Sp Ie eee NiE I eee eye Wie a Sia tan NR ey Cu a pd ia!
Car. eabplorus Cages acres 25 cee eee Oot e Aaa OLR ces eae eee
Materia medica:

Basement drawer storage (containing 2 tiers).........--..---------es-e eee 2
Sectional library ‘cases msl ee ele he ay ae Re ks 1
Standard, shelf-stacks 25: -cclcus sive kek eee Ue eee 14
Card catalogne casepis 2 - assess cade cuncmeewseme mest chee eae ne eee 1

The number of unit-drawers in use now exceeds 10,000.

(ad) Preparation of labels.

During the year 1884 about 4,500 descriptive labels for the exhibition
series were printed, besides several thousand forms of labels for the
reserve and duplicate collections in the various departments. This has
been accomplished through the courtesy and co-operation of the Secre-
tary of the Interior. Much progress has been made toward labeling
the exhibition series, particularly in the departments of Building Stones
and Materia Medica, the labeling of collections in those departments
being now practically completed. Many of the labels printed were for
the objects sent to the expositions.

Nochanges were made in the general form of the labels. Slight mod-
ifications were in some cases necessary, in order to adapt the labels to
special collections.

Large general labels, as also labels for some speci ial collections, are
printed upon a small press kept for the purpose ,in my office, while the
REPORT OF ASSISTANT DIRECTOR. 29

bulk of the descriptive labels are, as a rule, printed by the Interior De-
partment. During the year 1884, however, the Museum office printed
about 2,000 labels, or nearly one-half of all that were printed. ‘These
were chiefly labels for the collections sent to the expositions.

Of each descriptive label there are twenty copies printed, ten on
cardboard (gray or herbarium) and ten on white paper; the former to be
shown with the objects and for the reserve file, and the latter for mak-
ing catalogues of the collections and for general Gistribution to donors
and to other museums. The labels printed for the Fisheries collections
which were sent to the London Exhibition in 1883 have been reprinted
in Bulletin 27 of the Museum, and form a complete index to the numer-
ous objects of fishing implements and vessel models composing the col-
lections.

The care of the labels requires the entire time of one man. AS soon

as received from the printer, a sample of each label is put in the scrap-
book series, as many as are needed for immediate use are sent to the cu-
rator in charge of the collections, and the remainder of the labels are
filed in unit drawers, where they are arranged numerically by depart-
ments. An index is kept, by means of which a label, designated by its
number, can be referred to at once in the scrap-book and files.

13. PROGRESS OF GENERAL AND INCIDENTAL WORK.
(a) Library.

During the past year the usefulness of the library has been gradu-
ally increasing, although no very important additions have been re-
ceived. The additions for the year numbered about 700 books and
pamphlets, including many works of permanent value and practical
utility. Few purchases have been made, the principal sources of growth
being through exchange, gift, and deposit. The various departments
of the Government, especiaJly those engaged in scientific research, have
made many valuable contributions. The trustees of the British Mu-
seum have presented a large series of the catalogues and regular pub-
lications of that institution. Progress has been made during the year
in the effort to classify systematically the books in the library, but the
work has been greatly retarded owing to the insufficient force. The
classification referred to is absolutely necessary for the proper admin-
istration of the library, and it is hoped that it may soon be practicable
to provide adequate means for this purpose.

The library system may be briefly described, as follows: In the cen-
tral library are retained all books treating of more than one subject,
such as periodicals, proceedings of societies, serial reports, dictionaries,
and cyclopedias, together with such monographs as are not desired in the
sectional libraries, which are in the several Museum laboratories under _
the charge of their respective curators. To the sectional libraries are
assigned only those works which relate directly to the work of the see-
30 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884.

tion. Books ia the sectional libraries are considered to be personally
loaned to the curators in charge.

All books and other matters are first entered at the central library,
and the necessary acknowledgment made, after which monographic
works, upon application, are sent to the sectional libraries, their assign-
ment being designated upon the card catalogue.

It is very evident that the efficiency of the curators, not only in the
proper handling of the collections, but also in the preparation of the
scientific reports, which constitute so prominent a feature in the work
of the Museum, depends upon the completeness of the Museum Library.
A certain sum should be set aside for the purchase of books, since many
of those which are most needful cannot be obtained by exchange. The
entire appropriation has hitherto been needed for the payment of sala-

ries and the construction of cases, and for all books which have been

bought the Museum is indebted to the Smithsonian endowment fund.
(b) Distribution of duplicates and exchanges.

The following table represents the number of boxes and packages of
specimens distributed to museums and colleges, and in exchange with
correspondents during the year, viz:

Boxes and packages.

Mammaliskins ‘and Skeletons. 2. ciate oececlvertGom pancake eee eee eee 13
Bird si SELISs TES GS, cD COC ies cera eee ace ta) ENC Nc eee ee een a Pee ee etre eee 86
i Gha(ei est Fe Pare ERS Oa Bie Sein SO Soe eG sees a 21
Reptiles oss 22 coh yt sap ine SARE Oe ee Se eS Sah eer eee Sere ere See 10
Marine invertebrates (im sets) 44 = <a-2oles. eck okioee ee eee eee pene eee 48
Marine invertebrates (miscellancous packages). ........---. <--------. seee-- oe - 34
MOSS ec aes oe sn cian AS ere eee ore ere mera ape temo a= ot oleteeie rater inls ae eee ae in
[HOE ide Ses oeneeBa ee Seis ERE Niatkad Nome rice backed okt onan eens ene ee 7
Indianirelies 200 oe ee ane ck pee mE ETE Se ae Seas eae 17
ishes: #5230 (eee eee Beearae meets ae jeeeebie weber bece sthVeueSceee Cees. some 10
CLAN 3aro.0 6 hiacoe wae te apace | east eee Se ee See ee eee ee eae eee eee ee 1
| ed Ea Peace ee SPE re Beertey = AE eres er te OMS ACIS Os tee ees 8 CR oan 16
CE SiG QUES Cre) BEER at) 55h sda code shis 2 odcicod SoSS Jesse sSstatasSose252 9
iif) Moh Se See he SES a oi Se Scan one Gat moses dase athe S5e5c557 2
Bhells tec. os ise Jes eee eee cen Ree eee eee eee een nents ae ee eee 4
Moods} ebewsies tee J. 28 os - eee ee HE Se Se ee eee ee Ce tect ol een oe
Miaberia MediGans eis cub. foto ee cen epee - tee eRe» ne eos -chectecien eee anes

Popa ciSak ces. Soa Pee ee tot 2 ee et

The number of specimens contained in these boxes and packages
amounts to 21,084. This table shows an increase in the work of this
department, there having been distributed this year nearly 5,000 speci-
mens more than in 1883.

During the year, 103 applications from museums, schools, and indi-
viduals in the United States for general natural history specimens have
been filed, and a large number of these have been filled.

The number of packages of all kinds shipped to the New Orleans,
Louisville, and Cincinnati Expositions amounted to 819.
.

REPORT OF ASSISTANT DIRECTOR. 31

In the report of the Department of Marine Invertebrates will be
found a detailed list of the institutions to which the Fish Commission
sets of duplicates of marine invertebrates were distributed during the
year. References to the various exchanges made are also reported on
by the several curators. <A tabulated exhibit of what the Museum has
done in the way of distributing its duplicates from the commencement
of its history is very desirable, and will probably be prepared in time
for the next report.

(c) Publications.

A complete list of the publications of the National Museum for 1884
is given in Appendix B, Part IV. During the year the last five signa-
tures of Vol. VI and the first thirty-one signatures of Vol. VII ap-
peared. Proceedings United States National Museum for 1583, Vol.
VI, consisting of 558 pages and 14 plates, were published.

Bulletin No. 25, including seven parts, and forming Vol. I of Contribu-
tions to the Natural History of the Bermudas, and Bulletin No. 27, con-
sisting of twelve parts and constituting a report upon the exhibit of the
United States at the London Fisheries Exhibition, 1883, were printed.

Hight Museum circulars were printed as separates. These, including
Nos. 24-31, will appear in Vol. VIII, Proceedings United States National
Museum.

In Appendix B, Part [V,will be found a bibliographical list of the
papers published during 1854 by ofticers of the Museum. These papers
number 229 and are distributed among the several departments as fol-
lows :

@a'a Pe
eer ee
ASls | 2Hf
232 HHS
mae OCs =i
Sob ad wy 3
SSAA aos Ss
aa | ica
Arts and industries (including 26 pane on fisheries and fish culture) .--.--. 30 | 1 31
UETEI OE PS oho wg 5 oR ar Ga cule ns saw VEU ES Sos Onc Ka siccn anes shoLe VEEPee y See ee 20 | 3 23
ANIAQUIGIOS: J-.-5-'-.-----.- oO) RE Gg Te ee A re ee acer BR 8 1 9
(CTT LS. pe ee eee eee eee ery Lea eres tee ie eee eee 7 4 11
aN seen oie (ethan esse ee eee eck ac eubbahewk ac see oseaueeeeresaneeee 42 17 59
LS COP eae eros Pe lewommea ces 1
Re ptiles : and Batr: a 2 2 4
Fishes wens eae 29 32 61
Mollusks bike 9 1 10
Insects — 25 2 27
Marine Invertebrates ... 5 5 10
RENO EMOC ORME eyes ciils ta. cn Sabe sas snescatiecen ebacmion eee means 9 1 10
Plants:
WRU Ree ie Die a A A gS min sins a'e nin ie bennio na oem ae eda Di leeree anus 3
EPICA. Pe Sac, Sac nit 3 aco 0b «1c ao daee oon donee eee 3 2 5
COUEEE GIs fen BR se 2 at Fa a cE Mpa ie SS AT eg Ses |e ated aia 2
Lithology and gba a POGUE, lee coat ene x < sons acl tas em tee eee eee tans ll 1 12
ren ear) ANG CRUMP AMONG 03S oon icn cos as nh ad capes amen epee ed eae 19 3 22
CU COL gS oh ae ees ain gle NS SG as ee We tedawa wae Z
RUMI peanie Hint Olipry toi cc... a «sca hode suse oe eee ee ae 6 1 T
Taxidermy Res et cit ates alg tia ws ww. il eka ra eee per te ia aed eer eee 4
TELUS Soh Ga (ei a Pee Tat A=... el eT sit rae SE 1
oe IRRRERR BLUE Gomi Jahr ee ees LO. be ee rm ee ace ilewestewena 2 15
REE eee “CPEB So soe 5s a sa soa eth ade ae oe ee nig ee 1
PRONE Gn eere Sie eS ae oe waa, cha aa os enh ae eet atas memes / 259 76 335

In Part IV is a list of 76 papers based

upon Museum material, writ-

ten by investigators other than officers of the Museum,
32 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884.

(d) Visitors.

During the year the number of visitors to the Museum building has
been 195,322, and to the Smithsonian building 91,130. The total num-
ber of visitors may, therefore, confidently be placed at considerably
more than 200,000.

It may be noted that the interest of visitors in the collections appears
to be increasing in full proportion to the progress which has been made
in affixing descriptive labels.

The doorkeepers still continue the use of the automatic registers,
which are proving much more satisfactory than the turnstile system
usually employed in museums and exhibitions. The result of their
record is given below in tabulated form.

Number of visitors to the Museum building for 1884.

Month Number of; Number
; visitors. | registered.

JANUATY ..---- ~~ oe eee eee ee en ne cee ne enn n nee 15, 114 2, 207
February ------------ s--00+ enn 222 enn e ne enn 21, 215 3, 321
Mareh. 0.022. eecee scence saciass cena Bate ale 20, 832 2, 938
SAND Pe oo oe eel slo alee ene enim ra : 21, 527 3, 092
Maly 2 ooo scene ceereny sect aw o'nelmninine 2 25, 484 3, 716
UNO ye eee eee lenient seene shia etme a ae 11, 947 1, 486
DULY. 2 cee ee eee nn eee een ean encnne . 18, 671 1, 516
AT CUSG sonic ounce cree owns) -amm min eimin micelle 17, 698 1, 838
September .....-------.------e---------- 5 13, 263 1, 645
(OYera)]oys) eis a nee Seoee ane acta c= a SOC ero ah 12, 456 1, 520
MO MEIN OD eee ete ae eee ela niatels siainieeetee tne oe 10, 515 1, 223
IDOGOMPET, Sacer cic a5 cusps mein Bee ie tele le ore ie a ie re to neal eg nam elm le al 11, 600 1,380

Total conc ceteeliepioccucocmeasncecacle = = sa0esrnlesaecnul eaelnanwelemaleawieinuel 195, 322 25, 882

Number of visitors to Smithsonian building, 1884.
Number of} Number
eG visitors. | registered.

JANUATY ~~~ 02-2 een ene ne ee ee ne ee ene ne eee rene een eee ee ne: 7, 007 1, 029
Webruary.--------- 2202 cee ee eee eee eee nee eee cence ene eee ee eee 8, 781 1, 353
March . . ~~. 22. en en nnn een ne cen ene ee ten nee cncece sce eens cemece ence snes 7, 743 1, 193
April 22. 2-2 o 2 econ enn cnn nn cree re cere seen nn nc ee nce wen se cennennnnsnernacces 8, 012 1, 243
May «22 - 2 ene enc cee nee wenn ren nn ence ene n nee nse cnn aan aeeeeaccencnss 10, 319 2, 098
AWN Sy OF pepe top R SCRE R DCC ROOT OE GOCE Oe Cr ner acsee HOF rman nr ccmacercstac re. Ect 6, 379 1, 024
1G eae ea ND DS eR EL eg PSN SEM OMT S ECR ESSA fy SS Uh a 6, 392 997
PATS OR Gs oeeto ee olin main motels wma eie em eee eielate hele ale iaie mmo melanie melee ele miele min 10, 883 1, 442
September oe nc ses 2 seers sooo sos ens sinca cee ee ene seme em ielneine cena seieminintnmen 6, 945 1, 072
Choe rere sen soe heen cans don oO ee eemte esti aniale eisipm mlein cterete amenete aalm em rrereccte ted 7,116 796
INOMOMDEE loa acccdeceesccwene ces eae Se seen onic mee & eeeianistente amine elim alien ns) lole! 5, 310 702
TOBCONLDOR acs satis cscs ocbace are yeleisin we Seton ataln ale ateperetatate ie elmo letele (ele l ymin ai 6, 248 930

TRATES a es aU Ns ee a Biaie ee matt di Saye SaaS fee ae 91, 130 13, 879

Number of visitors to United States National Museum and Smithsonian Institution for
1882, 1883, and 1884.

ee ee aEEETTEIEISTSSnESEEIEETEIIET GUFREEEEESRERRDRESEERT SU IERRESRERURETERSEY TRE RSUSESUNEIEERENREEEIENOER

Waar Museum Smithsonian

building. | building.
geit eerste ht Peis Aa ao dk iy ON ce SR ae ee x30; 000 | eee &
{Tar ete akc he eh aA ROM OES DEAL OT Sy NORE 4167, 455 159, 744
eT Cha aie fre ie eM NL OMNES ORR MRIEE SCO NAN ea 202) 188 | 104) 823
RHEE Lupe e eee cus ticae ae ek le, ee 195, 222 | 91, 130

*Estimated on basis of register.
+ Estimated on basis of attendance from February 8 to December 31,
REPORT OF ASSISTANT DIRECTOR. 33

e) Students and lectures.

Reference has been made in previous reports to the arrangement by
which, at the request of the Navy Department, the Institution received
for three successive years six ensigns, and assigned them to duty in
various sections of the National Museum for the purpose of enabling
them to become acquainted with certain branches of science, such as
chemistry, mineralogy, geology, ethnology, general natural history, &c.,
in order that in their subsequent cruises they might be more useful.
Three details of the kind have been made, none, however, in 1884, the
Department having found it inexpedient to continue the arrangement.
Most of the gentlemen already detailed have also been reclaimed and
assigned to duty. Two of these ensigns, Messrs. Miner and Garrett,
are now on the Fish Commission steamer “Albatross.” Ensign Hayden
was detached in October and ordered to duty, first at the Cambridge
Observatory, and subsequently to the United States Geological Survey.

The experiment in connection with these junior officers of the Navy
has been very satisfactory as far as it has gone, and there can be no
doubt that the increased range of information thus acquired by the
eighteen gentlemen so detailed will be utilized to a considerable extent
in the future.

The Museum is frequently favored by visits of men of science from
other countries for the purpose of special inquiry into its methods, and
an unusual number of such callers was welcomed during the past year
in connection with a meeting of the British Association in Montreal.
Several distinguished naturalists took the occasion to study the col-
lections of the National Museum, which they found to contain many im-
portant types otherwise inaccessible to them.

Permission has been granted during the year to a considerable num-
ber of students of art to make copies of specimens in the Museum, and
an increase in the number of schools visiting the Museum in company
with their teachers has been noticeable.

As in previous years, the use of the lecture room in the Museum on
Saturday afternoon during the winter and spring has been granted to
a joint committee of the Biological and Anthropological Societies of
Washington for the purpose of conducting a course of scientific lectures.
These lectures are usually in some way connected with the work of the
Museum, and are illustrated by specimens from the collections. They
correspond in character closely to the afternoon lectures given at the
gardens of the Zoological Society of London.

The programme of the year is here appended:

*

FIRST COURSE.

January 5, Mr. Grove K. Gilbert: Cliffs and terraces.
January 12, Prof. Otis T. Mason; Child-life among savage and un-
civilized peoples. :
S. Mis. 33, pt. 2

ap
v

34 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884.

January 19, Prof. Edward S. Morse: Social life among the Japanese,
January 26, Maj. J. W. Powell: Win-tun Mythology.

SECOND COURSE.

February 2, Prof. F. W. Clarke: Lightning and lightning-rods.

February 9, Capt. C. E. Dutton, United States Army: The Hawaiian
Islands and people.

February 18, Prof. John Murdoch: Eskimo life at Point Barrow. «

February 23, Prof. Harvey W. Wiley: The sugar industry of the

North.
THIRD COURSE.

March 1, Prof. Harvey W. Willey: The sugar industry of the North.

March 8, Prof. Simon Newcomb: Psychic force.

March 15, Mr. John A. Ryder: Protoplasm in the light of recent in-
vestigations.

March 22, Dr. Frank Baker: The new phrenology.

March 29, Dr. D. Webster Prentiss: The bird-life of the District of

Columbia.
FOURTH COURSE.

April 5, Prof. T. C. Chamberlin: The great ice invasion of North
America.

April 12, Dr. W. W. Godding: What shall we do with the inebriates ?

April 19, Prof. J. S. Newberry : The industrial arts as factors in mod-
ern history.

April 26, Maj. J. W. Powell: The cafions of the Colorado.

The lecture room was occupied on March 19 for the delivery of the
ninth lecture of the Toner series by Dr. Charles K. Mills, of Philadel-
phia.

(f) Meetings of societies.

The lecture hall of the National Museum has been used during the
year for sixty-eight meetings of different kinds, as is shown below.

National Academy of Sciences, April 15-17: Ten meetings were held.
On the evening of the 17th a public meeting was held, at which the
eulogies of deceased members were pronounced, 176 persons being in
attendance.

American Surgical Association, April 30-May 3: Hight meetings were
held.

American Fish Cultural Association, May 13-15: Seven meetings
were held. Invitations were extended by the Commissioner of Fisheries
to the fish commissioners of nineteen States, and a large attendance was
the result. Many papers were presented, but the chief point of attrac-
tion was the opening to the public of the fisheries section of the Museum,
as arranged after the return of a part of the collection from the Inter-
national Fisheries Exhibition in London. The Brush-Swan Company
REPORT OF ASSISTANT DIRECTOR, 35

kindly furnished the lights to illuminate the entire building, especially
the fisheries section, and a large number of visitors were present on the
occasion. On the evening of May 13 a public meeting took place, Hon.
Elbridge G. Lapham in the chair. The formal address was delivered by
Hon. Theodore Lyman, of Massachusetts, who was followed by Hon.
S. S. Cox, of New York, in a second address.

American Dental Association, July 22-23: Four meetings were held.
‘ Society of American Taxidermists, July 80: One meeting was held.

Society of, Naturalists of the Eastern United States, December 29-
30: Four meetings were held.

The Biological Society of Washington: Fortnightly meetings were
held between June 25 and May 31, and between November 1 and De-
cember 27. In all there were fifteen meetings.

The Entomological Society of Washington held three meetings in
the office of the assistant director, on May 8, June 3, and November 3,
respectively.

On January 11, permission was granted to members of the Argent
Club, an association of amateur photographers, to hold their monthly
meetings in the photographic laboratory of the Museum.

14. CURRENT ADMINISTRATIVE WORK.

(a) Buildings and labor, police and public comfort.

At the commencement of the year the administrative staff for police
-and inspection consisted of Henry Horan, superintendent of buildings,
2 assistant superintendents, 12 watchmen, and 5 doorkeepers; for con-
struction, care of buildings, and repairs, 8 carpenters, 3 painters, and
1 mason; for Jabor and cleaning, 20 laborers, 2 attendants, and 4 clean-
ers. For heating and lighting there were employed 1 engineer and 4
firemen. The same system of Museum messenger-service as was adopted
in 1883 is still in practice, and greatly facilitates the despatch of busi-
ness between the offices of the divisions of administration and the offi-
cers and employés of the Museum. Two Museum messengers are now
employed, it having been found impracticable for one to complete the
round of the buildings within the necessary limit of time—one hour.

The following abstract of the report of Mr. Horan, the superintend-
ent of buildings, is here presented, to give an idea of the maniier in
which the mechanics and laborers have been employed. The main
features of the work mentioned by him and discussed elsewhere in this
report form the standpoint of the general administration :

In the early part of January the exhibits of metals, ores, &c., transferred to the
Smithsonian Institution at the end of the Centennial Exhibition in 1876 were brought
into the Museum and assigned to their respective departments.

A great many heavy specimens were brought into the New Museum from the Smith-
sonian building during the early part of the year, including the Egyptian statuary,
a pair of Haviland vases which were exhibited at the Centennial Exhibition, &c.
Much time was also occupied during the first part of the year in shipping to their
owners exhibits which had been sent to London in conjunction with the exhibit of
36 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884.

the National Museum. For instance, seventeen boxes were returned to the Signal
Office, fifteen boxes to the Light-House Board, &c.

Toward the end of January it was found necessary to add to the force two carpen-
ters, two painters, four laborers, and one fireman. In February and April farther
additions were rendered necessary.

During the latter month two additional carpenters, one painter, one stone- arate,
and ten laborers were employed. On account of lack of convenient quarters, it was
found necessary in April to clear out a portion of the southeast court for the use of
painters. The extra force was discharged on May 21.

On the 14th of May the entire force of laborers was very busily engaged in making
preparations for the opening of the fisheries section, which took place in the evening
of that date. It had been necessary for several days previous to keep the men at
work until midnight, and it was only by most strenuous efforts that the fisheries hall
was ready for the visitors a minute or two before the appointed time.

On the 10th of July the work of preparation for the Louisville and Cincinnati Ex-
positions was commenced. Three extra carpenters were employed. On this day the
construction of a workshop was begun in the grounds east of the Museum building
for the use of the stone-cutters, and a few days later the ground was broken for the
erection of an annex building, it having been found that the preparations for these
expositions demanded more space than could possibly be found in the Museum build-
ing. This annex was finished on August 4, and the taxidermist’s laboratory was im-
mediately removed to it from the Museum building. A portion of the annex was
alloted to the Bureau of Ethnology. On the 5th of August all the ethnological speci-
meus in the northeast court were taken to the new building.

On August 6 the work of packing the Louisville exhibits was commenced in the
northeast court, and on August 12 two car-loads, containing 112 packages, were shipped
to the exposition. On the following day the superintendent left Washington for
Louisville for the purpose of assisting in the reception and arrangement of the ex-
hibits.

On August 26 two car-loads of exhibits, numbering 76 packages, were shipped to
the Cincinnati Exposition, and the superintendent was also requested to go there
and render similar assistance. During this month the force of laborers and mechanics
was kept unusually busy, and at the end-of the month the extra hands were all dis-
charged.

On the first of September a small frame building was erected east of the stone-cut-
ters’ house for the purpose of poisoning skins, &c.

In the middle of October the National Museum received from the Botanical Gar-
dens some very fine tropical plants, which have been placed around the fountain in
the rotunda. Smaller plants were also arranged on the four balconies overlooking
the rotunda. These plants have added very much to the appearance of the Museum.

On November 24 the work of shipping the exhibits intended for the New Orleans
Exposition was commenced. On the 30th the superintendent left for New Orleans,
in order to help in the arrangement of specimens.

The preparation of the exhibit for New Orleans necessitated a large addition to
the force of mechanics and laborers, and during July 31 names were added to this
roll, distributed as follows: 4 carpenters, 1 painter, 4 masons, 10 laborers, and 12
aids, assigned to various departments for special duty. In August this force was in-
creased by 4 painters, 1 brass finisher, 1 laborer, and several aids.

During the absence of the superintendent at Cincinnati, Louisville, and New
Orleans, Mr. C. P. Crandell acted in his place. On account of sickness Mr. Crandell
was forced to temporarily resign his duties, and Mr. C. A. Steuart was then placed
in charge.

(b) Hlectric service.

There have been no important additions to this service during the
year, and a statement of the electrical apparatus now in use in the
REPORT OF ASSISTANT DIRECTOR. 37

National Museum will be found under this heading in the report for
1883.

The Superintendent of the United States Naval Observatory has in-

cluded the Smithsonian building and that of the National Museum in
the series of public establishments which receive telegraphic time at
noon on each successive day, and a clock, fitted up under the direction
of the Observatory, with an arrangement by which the Observatory
itself corrects any aberration in time, has been supplied. The money
expense has been borne by the Institution, but no charge has been
made for the time service.
- Through the courtesy of Colonel Rockwell, Superintendent of Public
Buildings and Grounds, connection has been made with the underground
telephone laid by his authority through the public grounds by the War-
ing Company. A special advantage in this was the opportunity of
making a more satisfactory connection between the National Museum
building and the United States carp ponds, a service that previously
had been much interrupted. Connection was also made through the
same trench with the Fire Alarm Telegraph Company, and the neces-
sary permission to open North B street was promptly granted by the
District Commissioners.

(c) Property and supplies.

The property clerk has, as hitherto, been in charge of and held re-
sponsible for all articles of furniture, and, in general, all Museum sup-
plies, and has been required to inspect the same and report upon them
to the Assistant Director. It is also his duty to keep in hand a stock
of such articles as are in most general use, issuing the same to any per-
son who presents a requisition duly endorsed. He is also required, when
necessary, to buy special articles, whose purchase has been duly ap-
proved.

It is the duty of the property clerk to see that in the purchase of
goods two points are especially attended to, viz: quality and price. If
the cost of an article will probably exceed $10, the property clerk is
required to obtain estimates from several reliable dealers.

(d) Accounts.

Owing to the continued ill-health of Mr. George S. Hobbs, who had
been in charge of this department, it was found necessary to relieve
him of official duties, and on July 13 Mr. H. W. Spoftord was engaged
to fill his place temporarily, and also to assist Mr. William V. Cox, who
was acting as financial clerk on the special exposition staff.

The administration of the Museum accounts has been carried on, as
heretofore, under the direction of the chief clerk of the Smithsonian
Institution, and all payments have been made through his office. A
statement of the receipts and expenditures of the Museum will be found,
as usual, in the report of the executive committee of the Board of Re-
geuts of the Smithsonian Institution.
38 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884.
(e) Chemical analysis of the air in the lecture room.

On several occasions it has been remarked that the air in the lecture
room became exceedingly oppressive during the progress of meetings,
lectures, &c. In order to verify these statements, Dr. J. H. Kidder, of
the United States Fish Commission, was requested by Professor Baird
to analyze the air during the progress of some of the Saturday afternoon
lectures. Dr. Kidder’s notes are here given in full :

ESTIMATION OF CARBON DIOXIDE IN THE LECTURE HALL OF THE
NATIONAL MUSEUM.
MARCH 1, 1884.
The hall is at the northwest angle of the building and measures 914
by 49% feet by 283 feet mean height.

% ‘ Cubic feet.

Total cubical contents. .......-..-.-...-- ms WESSEL) IES Sees ae ae oes 130; 279.7
Less space occupied by 500 persons (in cubic feet)........-..----- 1,500
Less space occupied by screens and seats (in cubic feet)....--..-.. 1, 000

: 2, 500. 0

127,779. 7

The lecture began at 3.30 and continued for three-quarters of an hour;
most of the audience were present for a full hour. Its number, as es-
timated by the superintendent, was about 500. The hall had been
scrubbed and ventilated as well as possible (but very imperfectly) dur-
ing the day, and the screens freshly painted.

Out-door air was damp and cold, slightly below the freezing point.
Air of lecture hall, at 9 feet from the floor, about the middle of the hall,
was as follows:

Relative humidity
Dry bulb. Wet bulb. (100=saturation).

One houribefore lecture 25. 76.0606 cece ates. cae cane cect 61° 56° 72°
(AL Close/Of lectHre.\c.ni cbseuscurecamesiecepeedoe seaimeneaete 65 58 83

Floor scarcely dry at beginning of lecture.

Carbon dioxvide.—Highty-six feet of rubber hose, one-quarter inch in-
side diameter, were washed for two hours by a continuous stream of tap
water and strung upon the gas fixtures from a point 8 feet from the
floor, near the center of the hall, to the uppermost room of the north-
west tower. Air was pumped by aspiration through this tube from the
hall, and after the residual air in the tube had been displaced, was col-
lected in close bottles and examined, with the following results:

Parts COz per 10,000

Marchtlthalfan hour beforelectorecs. 2c2 soe eee eee eee ce Cab eeseeeeee ee 8. 67
March 1, half an hour after beginning of lecture .........-...------------6-- - 12.22
Marchal siniof experiment room). 2). oe. 42 oles eee meine ccm ane ose eee eine 13. 04
Febritary, 29: out-doorair(4 p.m) << son sec acne lose ner cme te meee leeaeseae 3. 97

March 3, out-doorair through. tobesce 2-4 neces ce oeee eee eae ane eee eee eee 5.54
REPORT OF ASSISTANT DIRECTOR. 39

The last estimation was intended to eliminate errors arising from im-
purities possibly derived from the long and narrow tube through which
the air was collected. Since the out-door air in the afternoon has been
found by numerous estimations not to vary materially from the normal
average of 4 parts per 10,000, the correction due to the tube becomes
1.14, and the corrected results are as follows:

\ COsz per 10,000

Lecture hall half an hour before beginning of lecture.....--.---.------------- 7.53
Lecture hall half an hour after heginatng: Of JOGGOEG 6 on oan cans nee eanarnn neem 11. 08
Experiment room during lecture .... 0.2.2: 12.2 22-22 cece cone cee eee ween cee 13. 04
BGM ON GUTKIOG GIF 26.506 «cc cns ban cctinessceeen sss hag eva ea cinpe hewmen sane e oes 4.00

If the hall had been an absolutely closed box, the increase in carbon
dioxide due to the presence of 500 persons would have been about 300
cubie feet. The quantity observed (supposing the specimen to have
been a fair sample of all the air in the hall) was 45 cubic feet, or about
one-sixth of the possible increase.

Specimens were also taken for estimation of organic matter and other
contents of the air, but are not to be depended upon as tests because of
the length and narrow caliber of the collecting tube; since both solids
suspended in the air and ammonia tend to adhere to surfaces, and par-
ticularly to moist surfaces.

So far as carbon dioxide can be accepted as an indication of contam-
ination in air, these observations do not show an unwholesome condi-
tion of the air of the lecture room, but do indicate insufficient ventila-
tion. For exact conclusions, specimens should be taken near the floor,
near the ceiling, and about ten feet from the floor, at the beginning and
end of the lecture, and compared with one another and with the outside
air. Larger pipes, of metal, should be used for collection, unless speci-
mens can be taken in the hall itself; and estimations of ammonia, both
free and “ albuminoid,” should be made in addition to those of carbon
dioxide.

FURTHER EXAMINATIONS OF AIR OF LECTURE ROOM.

MARCH 6,
An average of ten persons present. Outside air damp—melting of
a heavy snowfall.

Time. Dry bulb. | Wet bulb. Ft atiercaeerrah
Br Mh Bn i a pe 58° 55° 81 in laboratory.
ee sO ied eaee ae an an.e 65 59 68 in lecture hall.
ENS CE ae ee 69 64 75 in lecture hall.
PAO Wet scasscsscaue 52 48 74 out of doors.

Carbon dioxide :
1p.m., outside air, 4.6 COz. per 10,000 parts.
12.40 p. m., lecture hall, 10.04 COz. per 10,000 parts.
40 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884.

MARCH 8.
Out doors rainy. Lecture began at 3.30 p. m.; 700 persons present.

Time. Dry bulb. | Wet bulb.| Relative humidity.
LOOP AM eeeee ce ees ea ceo te ee eck oe ecesametareacase 62° 58° 77 in laboratory.
1:20 Pi Wiieecws vacces ceawccacanes cosnpetucecessoncepeas 45 it 92 out doors.
280 PMNess ews ste wese casas ceaweasctzestoccsecdeuse 69 64 75 lecture hall, before
lecture.
DOOM PM eewas sone scieeeece caeesecsseess<s>seepertene 74 70 81 lecture hall, after
lecture.

Carbon dioxide:
Mean of out-door air, 4. per 10,000.
3 p.m., lecture hall, 9.086 per 10,000, one-half hour before lecture.
4.15 p.m., lecture hall, 12.505 per 10,000, three-quarters of an hour after beginning lecture.

Persons present declared the air to be more oppressive than on March
1, but the figures show no material difference.* The highest essential
impurity (as measured by carbon. dioxide) appeared on March 6, when
there was no lecture, and it is probable that if there had been a lecture
on that day the highest figures for contamination by respiration would
then have appeared.

Summarizing the several observations, they result as follows:

March 1. Temperature increased 4° F. during the lecture.

March 1. Relative humidity increased 11 per cent. during the lecture.
(Floors had been wet before lecture.)
March 6. Temperature increased 4° during four hours in lecture hall.
March 6. Relative humidity increased 7 per cent. during four hours.
(No lecture.)
March 8. Temperature increased 5° during lecture.
March 8. Relative humidity increased 6 per cent. during lecture.
March 1, CO, exceeded outside air 3.53 per 10,000 before lecture.
March 1, CO, exceeded outside air 7.08 per 10,000 middle of lecture.

March 6, CO, exceeded outside air 5.44 per 10,000 at1 p.m. (No lect-
ure.)

March 8, CO, exceeded outside air 5.086 per 10,000 before lecture.

March 8, CO, exceeded outside air 8.505 per 10,000 near end of lecture.

If this excess be all attributed to respiratory impurity, it has exceeded
“the maximum amount of respiratory impurity permissible in a prop-
erly ventilated space” (Dr. Chaumont), viz, 2 parts per 10,000, by—

Parts per .0;000 before lectnre March lyse. ce eee ses e teeacee o- Sees a eee 1.53
Parts) per 10/000; half through lecture Marcha 2. ss ccs ne se) 2 2 eee 5. 08
Parts per 10;000 nodecture March i6s2c- 2 22S 2Se2 ec tecees cee cice coon teeeeee 3. 44
Parts per 10;000 before lecture March’S <223-cesese hace sea sees ee eae 3. 086
Parts per 10,000 three-fourths through lecture March 8 .............------- 6.505

The increase due to respiratory impurity on the two lecture days of
experiment, while the lecture continued, was:

March 1. In half an hour, 3.55 parts per 10,000.

March 8. In three-fourths of an hour, 3.419 parts per 10,000.

* In the increase of CO, during the lecture.

REPORT OF ASSISTANT DIRECTOR. 41

The indication is that the ventilation is imperfect, not only during
the lecture, but in the Museum generally, the permanent air showing
at all times of examination too great an excess of CO, over that out of
doors.

MARCH 10, 1884.

15. THE WORK OF THE MUSEUM PREPARATORS.

A number of additional preparators have been employed during the
year, for special work upon the collections for the New Orleans Exposi-
tion, and an unusual quantity of objects for the exhibition series have
been completed during the year in the workshops, as is shown in the
review of the operations of the scientific departments.

(a) Taxidermists.

The main workshop, which is devoted chiefly to work upon the mam-
mals, is under the direction of Mr. William T, Hornaday, chief taxider-
mist, and the general excellence of its work testifies to the efficiency of
its staff. The preparation of the exhibit for the New Orleans Exposi-
tion added considerably to its work, and during the summer:83 speci-
mens, representing 78 species, were mounted specially for the exposition.

During the year Mr. Hornaday and his assistants mounted 114 speci-
mens, representing 91 species, and classified as follows:

Orders. Specimens. | Species.

PEM ae auras oa sae ee eee eaten aa aek eae a de soxe dacs sSuuaadasac's oecmasee 7 7
UNEASE ter a re Re ee nies aie oe nc ein cn aes ae ete * 17 16
RUIMERRWOULIS oie nin td ose oe een cea aci eae Waa cow enciadcsciaces ascuconcedeacececcunsocme al if
Cpirrancnmeres st hose Sass Rai Got eek, Pat n. Uainac docew'ewetvwnas concicewainee 33 28
La) i a line aes 2 ete Se a Sa eee ee ere eer perro 1 1
Sent ed. oe oe Oe ee rete ne ce ae aa det nee ade ucnonme waencmscdzanterames 5 5
Lie i hag Se eS ee ee a eS Re ee ee ee ee eee 38 27
PICROMN TNC Ste. n se 6Se Cowl cSusnes ot oc Soma meansm aes oes Mave wes wen tedadetdesodtanst 6 +
TIT EE pee 2 rk Sh eas tee Seed 8 Bee care» Sareea 6 2

SEE a aren etd anen nd dens oue Sskt aaa woncne ces upakensacmeee aces cane sae 114 91

In addition to the work already specified, the skins of 57 mammals
were removed and preserved. <A collection of Australian fishes, con-
sisting of 60 specimens, was repaired and repainted. Twelve fur-seals
were repaired, and 24 large mammals were mounted on new pedestals.
The large seal group, which had been sent to the Fisheries Exhibition
in London in 1883, was reconstructed, and the collection of Ungulates
renovated. Twenty-one specimens of birds, fishes, &c., were mounted,
and two groups of small mammals made and set up.

DY an omission in the records of last year the Museum failed to make
acknowledgment to Mr. Hornaday for his gift of a mounted setter,
valued at $250, and to certain members of the Society of American
Taxidermists for some 25 objects presented to the National Museum.
42

LIST OF THE MAMMALS MOUNTED IN THE UNITED STATES NATIONAL

PRIMATES.
14261. Cynopithecus niger. 12129.
14247. Cercopithecus ruber. 14230.
14290. Stenops tardigradus. 14338.
14309. Ateleés ater.
CHEIROPTERA.
6997. Atalapha cinerea. 14411.
7839. Natalus stramineus. 6980.

13376. Anthrozous pallidus. 11206.
7779. Noctilio leporinus var. mastivus. 5418.

14262. Molossus rufus. 13952.

5201. Vampyrus spectrum. 7011.

INSECTIVORA.

2211. Scapanus Townsendi.

CARNIVORA.

14312. Felis concolor. 12545.
7812. Felis onza. 13836.
3573. Canis lupus griseo-albus. 14155.

14570. Canis latrans. 13842.

14423. Vulpes fulvus argentatus. 13822.

14634. Urocyon virginianus. 13616.

14393. Urocyon virginianus littoralis. 13832.

13838. Vulpes japonicus. 13966.

13824. Nyctereutes procyonides.

14155. Gulo luscus. 9068.
7202. Putorius brasiliensis frenatus. 8622.
8008. Putorius erminea. 7033.

12671. Putorius erminea. 14424.

14545. Putorius vison. 11902.

Putorius vison. (With trap.) 14513.

13946. Mephitis mephitica. 14366.

14427. Mephitis putorius.

PINNIPEDIA.

14021. Phoca fetida. |

UNGULATA,

14684. Bison americanus. 14004.

13991. Ovis, sp. 13776.
14116. Cervus columbianus.

RODENTIA.

14328. Sciuropterus Sense 13839.
14329. Sciuropterus volucella. 2349.

14330. Sciuropterus volucella. Grda 14429,

14341. Sciuropterus volucella. f P: 12892.

14270. Sciuropterus volucella. | 12055.

14271. Sciuropterus volucella. J 9488.

REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884.

MUSEUM DURING THE YEAR 1884.

Sapajou melanochir.
Cebus capucinus?.
Chlorocebus engythithea.

Artibeus perspicillatus,
Artibeus cinerea.
Artibeus planirostris.
Sturnia lilium.
Vesperugo noctivagans
Artibeus, sp.

Taxidea americana.
Meles anakuma.

Lutra canadensis.
Lutronectes Whitleyi.
Ursus japonicus.

Ursus americanus? juv.
Mustela melanopus.
Procyon lotor.

Procyon lotor.

Nasua narica.

Nasua narica.
Cercoleptes caudivolvulus.
Bassaris astuta.
Bassaris Sumichrasti.
Viverra zibetha.
Galidia olivacea.

Cervus macrotis. (Head.)
Elasmognathus Bairdii. juv.

Pteromys leucogenys.
Sciurus niger var. niger.
Sciurus fossor.

Sciurus hypopyrrbus.
Sciurus estuans.
Sciurus cinereus,
REPORT

OF ASSISTANT DIRECTOR,

RopENTIA—Continued.

9432. Sciurus aureogaster.

95. Sciurus, sp.
2482. Tamias striatus.
2477. Tamias asiaticus Townse
9489. Tamias Harrisii.
7371. Tamias, sp.
2375. Sciurus carolinensis.
1445. Spermophilus Douglasii.
1323. Cynomys ludovicianus.
1913. Cynomys columbianus.
13957. Arctomys monax.

12654. Erithizon dorsatus epixanthus.

13621. Erithizon dorsatus epixa

13874. Cholepus Hoffmanii.
8807. Cholepus Hoffmanii.
12101. Bradypus casteneiceps.

14349. Didelphys virginiana.
14349. Didelphys virginiana.
14349. Didelphys virginiana.

(Albino. )

14148. Lepus timidus.
14413. Lepus californicus.

14460. Lepus americanus Washingtoni.
ndi. 14348. Lepus sylvaticus sylvaticus.
14348. Lepus sylvaticus sylvaticus.
14348. Lepus sylvaticus sylvaticus.

Lagostomus trichodactylus.

14461. Dipodomys Philippsi.
13847. Fiber zibethicus.

14288. Fiber zibethicus.

14289. Fiber zibethicus.

14341. Castor fiber.

nthus. 7017. Spermophilus Franklini.

EDENTATA.
12856. Cholepus Hoffmanii.

11282. Mymedon dorsalis.
Solenodon cubanus.

MARSUPIALIA.

14349. Didelphys virginiana.
14349. Didelphys virginiana.
11851. Didelphys californica.

(Head.)

SUMMARY.
Orders. Specimens. | Species.
PE PRIMDO ae cou oe SEC Sea Rt ss Seusertd cae cabcwrioncbewcdevcaisccasateecesdeus tf 7
SIRI Tet ose aa oes aaa secant en atinema cmesecapeaucascsennmennaanane 17 16
RIMERIREMENIIN Has 22 nas See oe bos wunicide Son cecebeee's sdcenis secesaesteneaceace 1 ue
SRNRIMNNETNNS = ee oe. soe GaeS bad dense ic OM eu Re ac daaceocvaesueous 33 28
rT ee ees Cran I Sa hee coma caeae nade cnapaccedncceoasiann see il 1
RUBUA oe nc oe non oe eboaee ee or eee ic hs tee eens coun 5 5
MEE Cyt ree ee ee ee ee a ameaatwesenenccunee 38 27
Oe RE RA ORT RCC Ones Rs ea ee nee ay Soe, er 6 +
NMIMSUMENIE Rens Secs Sin) ane hen a= ole ta en ea ad ne po aanen sawn eke eda ss sanaeace se 6 2
REN eee Soe re ae ne ae ete nae ei ccewaenen cowasenndaasae pee

Mounted expressly for the New Orleans Exposition, 83 specimens, 78

species.

LIST OF MAMMALS, IN THE FLESH, SECURED FOR THE UNITED STATES
NATIONAL MUSEUM BY THE TAXIDERMIC DEPARTMENT DURING

THE YEAR 1884.

14229.,Cynocephalus porcarius.
14230. Cebus, sp.

14235. Cercocebus fuliginosus.
14247. Cercopithecus ruber.
14256. Cebus hypoleucus.
14260. Cercopithecus mona.
14261. Cynopithecus niger.
14263. Cercopithecus mona.
14290. Stenops tardigradus.
14309. Ateles ater.
14324. Cynocephalus anubis.

14338. Chlorocebus engythithea.

14339. Prosimia mongoz.

PRIMATES.

14350. Chlorocebus engythithea.

14604, Papio maimon.

14605. Cynocephalus, sp.
14664. Semnopithecus, ? sp.
14672. Cynocephalus sphinx.
14673. Cynocephalus sphinx.
14676. Macacus cynomolgus.
14688. Macacus nemestrinus.
14686. Chlorocebus cynosuruns.
14687. Mormon maimon.
14704. Cercopithecus, sp.
14705 Cynocephalus anubis.
14234. Cebus, sp.
44

14700.

14634.
13966.
14699.
14312.

14302.

14326.
44667.

14282.
14289.
14270.

14606.

14841.

REPORT

Pteropus Edwardsii.

Urocyon virginianus.
Procyon lotor.
Viverra malaccensis.
Felis concolor.

Zalophus Gilliespei.

Oreas canna.
Tragelaphus scripta.
Dicotyles torquatus.

Fiber zibethicus.
Fiber zibethicus.

OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884.

CHEIROPTERA.

|
CARNIVORA,

14337. Felis leopardus.
14397. Felis jubata.
14398. Felis jubata.

PINNIPEDIA.
|

UNGULATA.

14706. Phacocherus ethiopicus.
14702. Cervus porcinus.

RODENTIA.

14346-8. Lepus sylvaticus.
14710. Lepus americanus.

Sciuropterus volucella. (6 speci* | 14711. Lepus americanus.

mens. )
Dipus hirtipes.

Macropus gigas.
(Total. 56.)

2 Grus leucogeranus.
1 Cassowary.

1 Condor.

3 Cockatoos.

14712. Lepus americanus.
14713. Lepus americanus.

MARSUPIALIA.

MISCELLANEOUS.

2 Parrots.
1 Japanese fowl (domestic).
1 Alligator 9 feet long.

MISCELLANEOUS TAXIDERMIC WORK.

Removed and preserved the skins of 57 mammals.

Repaired, repainted, and rearranged a collection of Australian fishes ;
60 specimens.

Repaired 12 fur seals, and also pedestal.

Mounted 24 large mammals on new pedestals.

Reconstructed large seal group.

Renovated and repaired the collection of Ungulates, Felide, Urside,

&e.

Renovated rug for President Arthur.
Mounted 1 large halibut.

Mounted 1 shark.
Mounted 8 birds.
Mounted 4 California salmon.
Moynted 4 smaller fishes.
Mounted 2 pairs elk antlers.
REPORT OF ASSISTANT DIRECTOR. 45

Mounted 1 elk-leg trophy.

Made 5 traps.

Made 2 groups of small mammals.

Packed New Orleans exhibit of mammals, and installed the same,
the taxidermic exhibit and skeleton exhibit in the New Orleans Ex-
position.

Mr. Henry Marshall has been engaged upon his regular work—that
of mounting birds—during the whole year. A large number were pre-
pared for the New Orleans, Louisville, and Cincinnati Expositions. In
his work he has had the valuable assistance of his son, Mr. George
Marshall.

(b) Osteological preparator.

Mr. Lucas has devoted his time, under the direction of the curator
of mammals, to the removal of the collection of mounted skeletons from
the Smithsonian building and its arrangement in the east south range
of the New Museum building. The two large whale skeletons have
been suspended from the ceiling, and nearly one hundred skeletons,
skulls, and other osteological specimens mounted and placed on exhibi-
tion. A large number of specimens have been cleaned and rendered
available for study. The necessary work of caring for the numerous
fresh specimens received has precluded the possibility of devoting very
much time to the exhibition series.

During the summer, while preparations for the New Orleans Exposi-
tion were being most busily carried on, an additional assistant, J. W.
Scollick, was assigned to this section.

In November, on account of the low condition of the New Orleans
appropriations, it was found necessary to dispense with Mr. McCormick’s
services. Mr. Scollick was transferred to the Museum roll.

(c) Modelers.

Mr. Joseph Palmer has been engaged in his usual work of making
casts. He has prepared for exhibition and set up in the Museum the
plaster casts of George Washington, Benjamin Silliman, and also the
bronzed plaster cast representing an Indian group. Several casts of
fishes, Indian pipes, reptiles, &c., were prepared by him for the New
Orleans, Louisville, and Cincinnati Expositions. Two large casts, one
of the spiny shark and one of the sperm whale porpoise, have been
made with the assistance of Mr. William Palmer, who also rendered
valuable service in unpacking, setting up, and repacking the collections
sent to the Louisville and Cincinnati Expositions.

Mr. J. W. Hendley has made progress in the preparation of casts of
animal and vegetable foods. It is intended that these casts shall be
exhibited in the Department of Foods, accompanied by a statement of
the chemical composition of the objects which they represent.
46 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884.
(d) Photographer.

Mr. T. W. Smillie reports the addition to his files of 529 negatives
during the year. The following instruments have been purchased: One
large vertical copying camera; one small camera; one solar microscope,
including one heliostat; one camera with various illuminators, dia-
phragms, &c.; and a series of objectives from 4 inch to 4 inches. An
electric light has also been added to the apparatus of this section, ob-
viating tne necessity of delays by reason of cloudy weather.

The apparatus in this section is extremely complete, and the photo-
graphic laboratory is now thoroughly equipped for all kinds of work.
Several of the Government bureaus have recognized this fact, and have
occasionally requested the permission of the Director to have certain
scientific work performed here, some of which probably could not have,
been accomplished elsewhere. During 1884 Mr. Smillie has instructed
a class of ten ensigns of the United States Navy. One of these accom-
panied the Greely Relief Expedition, and preduced some very satisfae-
tory results with a camera. Instruction has also been given without
reserve to several scientific gentlemen who desired to acquire some
knowledge of this art preparatory to their departure on various scien-
tific expeditions.

As @ special application of this art to Museum purposes may be
mentioned certain work which has been performed for the Department
of Building Stones. Negatives have been made of typical buildings,
constructed of various kinds of stone. These have been enlarged on
paper 30 by 40 inches, and colored according to the natural colors of
the different kinds of stone. By means of polarized light photomi-
crographs were made from thin sections of stone. These were enlarged
on glass and colored with transparent tints, thus presenting a picture
of the section as seen with the microscope under polarized light. Spe-
cially noteworthy also were a number of photographic enlargements
representing thirteen of the Government buildings in Washington.
These are the largest single prints ever made, and have been found par-
ticularly effective at the New Orleans and Cincinnati Expositions, it
being thought that in an exhibition of the work of the Government De-
partments, such as has been attempted this year by the United States
Executive Board, it is particularly appropriate that the public buildings
of Washington should be shown in an impressive manner.

The work accomplished in this section during 1884 is as follows:

Werativesttaken! os... /s25 205 ht ge Skee a: Basoe ieee hiee we see ais pee eeeeeoeee *463
Printsynad ess 22h cis Sle saigidvs eatorare ee ee + lee roeta Mere ee eee iol chee oe Rea eee ee 4, 847
Medium size enlargements.-.......-..----..---- SiS Set Saledei a helseg ame eee Seer 66
Extra size enlargements (4 by 7 feet) Eup h eas aeiee sees Sisis oa Sin Siewinte ee Steere 26
Enilatgements/on plass, colored 222° 22. wooses seca te eae sea coe sone Pe es 12
Pnlarsements:on paper; colored son2i2 EL. sos. cemeerees eee ecienis seers 12
Cyanobypesicsiees fees yease tio wens ole Seb e ieae Geese ea cows rk See enone 315

*TIn addition to this number 66 negatives were taken in the field.
REPORT OF ASSISTANT DIRECTOR. 47

In addition to this 2,200 plates have been numbered, and filed for

future use.
(e) Artist.

Mr. A. Zeno Shindler has been engaged in painting casts of fishes,
reptiles, &c., for the Museum and for the Louisville, Cincinnati, and
New Orleans Expositions. He has also made numerous sketches in oil
and water-color of certain specimens on exhibition in the Museum.
Four full-sized Indian busts were also painted by him for exhibition at
New Orleans in connection with the ethnological department of the
Museum.

(f) Preparators in the Division of Anthropology.

Mr. E, H. Hawley has been for the greater part of the year engaged
in mounting collections for the New Orleans, Louisville, and Cincinnati
Expositions. During the early part of the year he also arranged for
exhibition the collections received from the foreign exhibition, held in
Boston during the latter part of 1883. In November and December
eight valuable India cashmere shawls were mounted and placed on ex-
hibition in the Museum. An interesting collection from the Dennison
Manufacturing Company, consisting of the ingredients used in the prep-
aration of sealing wax, together with the manufactured products, is be-
ing installed by Mr. Hawley; also, a magnificent collection of ostrich
feathers presented by Mr. R. T. Béné, and imported by Joseph Andrade
and Company, and some fine specimens of walrus leathers received from

¥F. W. Gesswein.

Mr. T. M. Sweeny devoted his time during the first half of the year
to the mounting of ethnological objects for display in the National Mu-
seum. Assoon as the Department of Ethnology was organized, iu July,
he was assigned as assistant to the curator, Prof. O. T. Mason.

16. WORK IN CONNECTION WITH THE EXPOSITIONS.
(a) The Cincinnati, Louisville, and New Orleans Expositions.

The participation of the Smithsonian Institution, as directed by Con-
gress, in three exhibitions, has—although in many respects detrimental
to the growth of the Museum—contributed largely to the prosperity of
several of its departments. In the first place, in order that material
might properly be selected for exhibition, it was found necessary in
many departments of the Museum to employ additional assistants in
making a thorough overhauling of the material and getting it system-
atically arranged. In the second place, it was found necessary to pur-
chase a considerable amount of material to fill vacancies in the various
series of specimens which were shown at the exhibitions.

It has been our policy to expend the appropriation for the New Or-
leans Exposition in such a manner that there also might result a per-
48 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEMM, 1884.

manent benefit to the Museum. This we have found to be entirely con-
sistent with the interests of the exhibitions, since the material which is
useful for these temporary displays is even more useful for the perma-
nent exhibition series of the Museum. At the same time, in many of
the departments an effort has been made, in selecting specimens for the
expositions, to make use of duplicate material from the Museu, in
order that, should we be called upon in future to participate in other
expositions, the preparation of a collection can be effected with less
expense of time and money than has been heretofore practicable.

In the report for 1885 I hope to include an extended account of the
New Orleans Exposition, with special reference to the specimens ac-
quired for the National Museum by gifts and exchanges.

The following statement will, however, serve to indicate the extent
of the preparations made by the Smithsonian Institution for participa-
tion in the expositions at Louisville, Cincinnati, and New Orleans:

The following preliminary report upon the exposition work of the
year has been prepared by Mr. R. Edward Earll, the head of the special
exposition staff:

On July 7 Congress passed a bill authorizing the representation of
the various executive departments of the Government, including the
Smithsonian Institution and Department of Agriculture, at the World’s
Industrial and Cotton Centennial Exposition to be opened in New
Orleans December 1, and to continue for six months. The bill further
provided for an exhibit by each of the departments at the Southern
Exposition to be held at Louisville, Ky., and at the Industrial Ex-
position at Cincinnati, Ohio. The bill authorized the appointment by
the President of representatives for each of the departments, these to
constitute a United States Executive Board, to whom all questions re-
lating to the Government participation in the various expositions were
to be referred. Each representative was to be charged with the prep-’
aration of an exhibit for his department, and the funds placed to its
credit by Congress were to be disbursed under his direction. Mr. G.
Brown Goode, Assistant Director of the U. S. National Museum, who
had represented the U.S. Fish Commission at Berlin in 1880, and at
London in 1883, was appointed to represent the Smithsonian Institu-
tion, including the U. S. National Museum and U.S. Fish Commission.
Seventy-five thousand dollars were placed to the credit of the Institu-
tion for the preparation of exhibits for New Orleans, with twenty-four
hundred dollars additional for Louisville and twenty-three hundred
dollars for Cincinnati.

THE EXHIBIT AT LOUISVILLE.

In 1883 the people of Louisville obtained contro] of a large plat of
ground within easy access of the city and erected a building 920 feet by
630, with extensive galleries, where they held a large and successful
REPORT OF ASSISTANT DIRECTOR. 49

exposition, continuing for three months. The exposition of 1884 was
held under the same auspices and in the same building, opening August
16 and closing October 25.
Immediately upon the passage of the bill by Congress correspondence
was opened with the management of the exposition and space obtained
in different portions of the building for the several executive depart-
ments, 4,500 feet being assigned to the Smithsonian Institution, in one
of the most prominent portions of the building. The time being short,
the work of preparing the exhibit was vigorously prosecuted, and on
August 12 three car-loads, containing 95 cases, with a weight of
23,553 pounds, were shipped. These arrived at Louisville on the morn-
ing of the 16th, and by the evening of the 19th were fully installed.
The industrial interests of Kentucky were taken into consideration
in deciding upon the character of the exhibit, which it was thought de-
sirable to make as instructive as possible. It was largely an educa-
tional exhibit, showing the processes of manufacture of raw materials
which were abundant in the State, and a graphic representation of such
subjects as were supposed to be least familiar to the people of Kentucky.
One of the prominent features of the exhibit was a large collection
showing the processes of manufacturing textiles from raw materials,
including flax, hemp, jute, grasses, and silk. A collection illustrative
of articles derived from the animal kingdom was also shown. This in-
cluded a series of furs, another of crude and manufactured leathers, a
third of natural and ornamental shells and shell-works, another illus-
trating the uses of feathers in the arts, and a fifth showing the manu-
facture and uses of glues derived from the sounds, bones, and skins of
various species of fish. An extensive collection illustrative of the great
ocean fisheries of the New England coast was also shown. The whale
fishery was illustrated by means of a full-sized whale-boat, fully equipped
with sails, oars, harpoons, lines, and guns; a model of a whale-ship
with a whale alongside, showing the method of stripping the blubber,
and trying it out on the vessel’s deck, and by paintings of whaling
scenes. The other fisheries, including those for cod, mackerel, men-
haden, and herring, and the apparatus and methods of fish-culture, were
fully shown by models of the most important vessels and boats, and a
series of photographs 30 by 40 inches, neatly framed, classified, and
mounted on screens. The natural-history collections included a repre-
sentation of nearly all of the snakes and reptiles found in the United
States, and a fine series of many of the water-birds of the country.
An attendant was left in charge of the exhibits during the continu-
ance of the exposition, and at its close the exhibits were carefully
packed and a majority of them forwarded directly to New Orleans, a
few being returned to Washington to be remounted, with larger and
more complete collections, before shipping to the New Orleans Exposi-

‘ion.
S. Mis. 33, pt. 2——4
50 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884.

THE EXHIBIT AT CINCINNATI.

The Cincinnati Industrial Exposition is an institution of some years
standing, and receives the cordial support of the most prominent busi-
ness men of the city. Expositions have been held annually since 1873,
a suitable and substantial brick building having been erected by the
management. It is located in the heart of the city, and has annually a
large attendance. For the season of 1884 the exposition opened on
September 3, closing on the fourth of the following month.

As the space was mostly allotted before the bill authorizing Govern-
ment participation in the exposition had become a law, a second build-
ing to accommodate the Government exhibits was found necessary, and
the management erected a temporary structure near the main entrance,
having dimensions of 50 by 200 feet. This was divided between the
several departments, 3,322 square feet, or nearly one-third of the entire
building, being allotted to the Smithsonian Institution. This space
was situated at one end of the structure, thus admitting of a satisfactory
and very pleasing installation.

As soon as the Louisville exhibits were in place the work of pre-
paring those for Cincinnati was vigorously pushed, and the entire col-
lection consisting of 80 cases of exhibits with a weight of 24,321 pounds
was shipped on August 26, reaching the exposition at Cincinnati on
September 1. A large force of men was at once set to work to unpack
and arrange them, and by the opening of the exposition the arrange-
ment was practically completed.

As at Louisville, the exhibits were largely educational, and included
such objects as it was thought would be appreciated by those who saw
them. One of the striking features of the exhibit was an alcove con-
taining a collection illustrative of the social life and industries of the
Eskimo and the Indians of the northwest coast; the dwellings, house-
hold utensils, and implements of war, hunting and fishing, as well as
the art of the two races being shown in such a manner as to afford
accurate means of comparison. A life-size bust in plaster of one of
the prominent Indian chiefs with portraits in oil of thirteen others were
also exhibited. Another important feature was a large and valuable
collection of minerals yielding gems and ornamental stones. The
natural history department contained a small but choice collection of
taxidermy, including game and water birds, sparrows, and a few mam-
mals, while a full series of Audubon colored plates of North American
birds were framed and used for decoration. Two cases were devoted
to a large collection of plaster casts of the more common snakes and
turtles of the United States. The methods and apparatus employed in
the great ocean fisheries and in fish culture were graphically repre-
sented by means of two extensive series of photographs, the largest
series being solar enlargement having dimensions of 30 by 40 inches.
In the fishery section was also shown a large and valuable collection of
REPORT OF ASSISTANT DIRECTOR. 51

plaster casts of the important food-fishes of the country, including both
fresh and salt water species. The collection of textile fabries was very
complete, including samples of many of both American and foreign
fabrics, from the cheapest to the most expensive. Two alcoves, which
attracted considerable attention, were devoted to photolithographs of
Japanese pottery, and a large collection of photographs showing the
arts of the early Saxons.

As at Louisville, the collections were placed in charge of an attendant
who looked after the interests of the department during the continuance
of the exposition, and at its close the exhibits were packed and the
bulk of them shipped to New Orleans, to be installed with other exhibits
at the exposition in that city.

THE EXHIBIT AT NEW ORLEANS.

The preparations for the exhibit at New Orleans have been very exten-
sive. Curators from the various departments of the Museum have been
charged with the collection of material to illustrate their several depart-
ments at the exposition, and assistants have been employed in arrang-
ing and mounting the collections, which, as a rule, have been provided
with printed or written descriptive labels.

The building for the display of the Government and State exhibits
at New Orleans is 885 feet long and 565 feet wide. <A strip 185 feet
wide, extending entirely across the center of the building has been
assigned to the Government departments, the Smithsonian Institution
occupying an area of over twenty thousand square feet at the left of
the principal entrance of the building.

The exhibit includes an archeological collection of considerable sizes
a large and valuable ethnological collection, confined chiefly to the
Indians and Eskimo of North America; a collection of models showing
the development of American ship-building; a collection of American
and foreign textiles, and a large and valuable collection of autotypes
representing the principal artists of the world. Adjoining the last is
a collection of all of the important food-fishes of the country in plaster,
a collection illustrative of the recent methods of fish culture and the
more important forms of fish-ladders, together with tabulated state-
ments of the nutritive values of fish and other aquatic animals. Next
comes an extensive collection of animal products, showing the various
methods of utilizing the hair, fur, feathers, scales, leather, flesh, bones,
intestines, and excrements of various animals. Adjoining this, and serv-
ing as a connection between it and the natural history specimens, is a
collection illustrating the various devices used in the capture of animals.
The natural history collection includes specimens of the principal mam-
mals, birds, and shells, the latter being arranged according to their
geographical location, the molluscan life of the Atlantic coast, the Miss-
52 REPORT OF NATIONAL MEUSEUM, 1884.

issippi basin, and the Pacific being shown separately. Seven cases are
devoted to an extensive collection of minerals, while a large space is
assigned to metallurgy and economic geology, including a collection
illustrating the apparatus and methods of coal mining, and samples of
the various grades of commercial coal.

The entire collection, occupying seventeen cars, was sent to New Or-
leans, where it is now being installed in as systematic a manner as
possible, the educational idea being prominent in the arrangement.

During the progress of the several expositions many of the curators
were in attendance for a short time, in order to give their personal at-
tention to the installment of their exhibits. The Assistant Director left
here on December 6, to be present at the opening of the New Orleans
Exposition, and was thus enabled to superintend in person the installa-
tion of the Smithsonian exhibit so far as it was possible to complete
this by the opening day. Mr. Henry Horan, superintendent of the
National Museum, was detailed to attend to the three expositions at
various times between August 13 and November 30, in order to assist
in the arrangement of the cases. He also attended to the shipment
from Cincinnati to New Orleans of the cases intended for display at the
latter place.

INTERNATIONAL FISHERIES EXHIBITION OF LONDON.

The International Fisheries Exhibition of 1883 closed on October 31,
and Mr. Earll, with his assistants, who were left in charge after my re-
turn, reached Washington soon after the beginning of the year, the
last shipment of collections from London having already been received.
The reception, unpacking, and installation of the collections which
were prepared to be sent to London, together with the new material
obtained from the collections of other countries at this exhibition, oc-
cupied a great deal of time in the early part of the year. As has already
been mentioned, this work was completed in a preliminary manner in
May, during which month the fisheries gallery was opened to the pub-
lic. At the same time the gallery devoted to naval architecture—a
department which also received great impetus in connection with the
London Exhibition—was also thrown open. The fisheries collection
will undoubtedly for some years stand as the first completed and most
thoroughly arranged collection in the department of arts and indus-
tries. During the year a full catalogue of the collection, as shown in
London, has been printed, which, although far from corresponding to
the standard proposed for the Museum hand-books, will serve as a
starting point for this series. This catalogue may be considered as a
report upon the participation by the United States in the London Fish-
eries Exhibition. The report upon the general exhibition is now, as the
law requires, in course of preparation, and will be presented to the Sec-
retary of State during the coming year,
REPORT OF ASSISTANT DIRECTOR. 53

E.—REVIEW OF ‘THE YEAR’S WORK IN THE SCIENTIFIC
DEPARTMENTS.

As in my last report, I here present a brief review of what has been
accomplished in each department of the several scientific divisions.
The curators’ reports are given in full in Part II of this report. These
are especially intended to embrace (1) a review of the important addi-
tions during the year; (2) a statement of the character of routine work
employed in arranging and classifying the collections, and in preparing
the exhibition and study series.

17. DIVISION OF ANTHROPOLOGY.
(a) Department of Arts and Industries.

The curator of this department is the custodian of all materials pos-
sessing anthropological significance, which are not elsewhere assigned.
Its belongings are consequently somewhat heterogeneous and difficult
to report upon, and its relations with the Department of Ethnology are
so, intimate that it is impossible to make a definite division between
them. Certain collections belonging to this department are under the
charge of other curators, the collection of building-stones being as-
signed to the department of lithology and physical geology, while all
that relates to mining and metal-working is cared for by the curator of
metallurgy and economic geology. Several sub-curatorships have
grown up in this department, and certain other collections, especially
those of architecture, musical instruments, and modern ceramics, to-
gether with the somewhat anomalous collection of historical objects,
are at present assigned to this curatorship.

When, in 1857, the Smithsonian Institution assumed the custody of
the collection of the United States Exploring Expedition, together with
the miscellaneous material which had gathered around this nucleus, a
great quantity of material was transferred to the Smithsonian building
which has not to this day been classified and placed upon exhibition.
The rapid growth, especially during the past decade, of the collections
illustrating the ethnology of North American Indians, and especially
of prehistoric objects from this continent, has absorbed the attention of
all who were interested in this department of the Museum. The major-
ity of the foreign ethnological objects are still, on account of lack of
room, packed up or crowded together in a too limited amount of case-
room. At the close of the Centennial Exhibition the Museum received
from foreign Governments great quantities of material exhibited at
Philadelphia, which, while possessing an undoubted ethnological inter-
est, could not in many instances be displayed in the manner usually
adopted in ethnological museums.

The material received from Philadelphia in 1876 was for several years
stored in the Armory building. On completion of the present Museum
54 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884.

building, and before the collections could be transferred to it, it became
necessary to decide by what method the stored material (other than
zoological, botanical, geological, or mineralogical) could be most effect-
ively classified for purposes of study and exhibition.

After a careful consideration of the methods of the large museums of
Europe, the officers of the Museum agreed that the ordinary classifi-
cation by races or tribes would in this case be less satisfactory than a
classification based upon function.

The Report of the Smithsonian Institution for 1881, pages 117-122,
and also Circular No. 13, of the National Museum, presented a pro-
visional outline of the plan of classification for the Museum. This
classification, while its purpose was to embrace every kind of object
which could possibly be exhibited in the Museum, was especially full
in those parts which related to the arts and industries, forty-nine out
of the sixty-four primary classes relating to this group of museum
material. The general idea of the classification, as there explained, is
that the collections should constitute a museum of anthropology, the
word *“‘ anthropology” being applied in its most comprehensive sense.
It should exhibit the physical characteristics, the history, the manners
past and present of all races civilized and savage, and should also illus-
trate human culture and industry in all their phases; the earth, its
physical structure, and its products are to be exhibited with special
reference to their adaptation for use by man.

Some experiments have already been made with reference to the fea-
sibility of this plan of arranging the exhibition series, but I am not yet
prepared to recommend its final acceptance; indeed the experience of
three years has brought about many changes in the plan, and a revision
is now being made by Professor Mason and myself.

The adoption of any plan of this general character would necessitate
the grouping together, in continuous series, of objects which had never
before been placed side by side in any museum. If the evolution of
any given industry or class of objects is to be shown, the series should
begin with the simplest types and close with the most perfect and
elaborate objects of the same class which human effort has produced.

In the textile industry, for instance, at one extreme is shown the
simple whorl of stone or terra cotta, used by savage or semi-civilized
man, together with the archaic representative of the same, surviving
among rural members of the most highly civilized races; these being
supplemented by the threads and the simple woven fabrics produced
by them; on the other hand, the steam spinning apparatus and the
power and Jacquard looms.

Much attention has been devoted during the year to experiments for
determining the manner in which the idea of this classification can best
be carried into effect. It is not possible within the limits of this report
to describe what has been done. In fact a full account of them at pres-
ent would be premature. The practicability of the scheme can best be
REPORT OF ASSISTANT DIRECTOR. 55

judged upon by an examination of the one or two groups, such as the
materia medica collection, the collection of musical instruments, and the
portion of the costume collection, which are already partly installed.

The Department of Arts and Industries is not yet established upon
the same footing as the others in the Museum, nor is it yet quite cer-
tain what form it will assume in the future. I shall therefore not un-
dertake to present a formal report upon its operations, but shall sub-
mit in the appendix the reports of the curators of materia medica, tex-
tile industries, foods and naval architecture, and refer back to my re-
port of 1883 for a statement of the character of the work which was in
progress at the end of that year, and which has been continued during
the present year, so far as the interruptions connected with exposition
work have permitted.

The installation of the section of fisheries,* under the immediate
direction of Mr. R. E. Earll, was actively carried on from January to
May, and on the evening of May 14, at 7.30 p. m., the fisheries section
of the National Museum was formally opened to the public. This occa-
sion was one of special interest, from the fact that the collections in
this section were the same that had been exhibited at the International
Fisheries Exhibition at London in 1883, together with certain collec-
tions which had been acquired in London by gift and exchange. ‘The
building was illuminated by electric lights, fitted up for the occasion by
the Brush-Swan Electric Light Company. The Director of the Museum
held an informal reception in the north main hall. The number of
visitors on this occasion was 2,033.

This section presents no special report, except in the form of the cat-
alogue of the American section at the London Fisheries Exhibition,
which is in fact an elaborate report upon everything in the section, and
which is referred to elsewhere. At the New Orleans Exposition the
Department of Fisheries was represented by about sixty of the large
pictures prepared for the London Exhibition, and by about 200 casts of
American food-fishes, which also had direct relation to the animal prod-
ucts collection just referred to. It was not deemed expedient to dis-
mantle the general fishery collections so recently installed, for such a
temporary interest as that of these exhibitions. The United States Fish
Commission made preparations for a considerable display of fish-culture,
and a representative collection of fish-cultural apparatus was sent from
the Museum.

Mr. Hitchcock, the curator of the textile collection, has been prin- -
cipally occupied in exposition work, in connection with which he un-
dertook the preparation of a collection of textile fibers and fabrics.
Portions of this collection were exhibited both at Louisville and Cin-
cinnati.

Captain Collins, on behalf of the Department of Naval Architecture,
prepared a series of working models illustrating the development of

* Report U. §. N. M., 1883, pp. 16, 17.
56 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884.

the ship-building industry in the United States, and especially the evo-
lution of the American schooner, the American pilot-boat, and the
American cotton-ship. A number of full-rigged models were also sent
in this connection, being exhibited on the way at Louisville and Cin-
cinnati. The model of a whale-boat, fully equipped with all appliances
for the capture of whales, was also sent. This model attracted much
attention at the London and Berlin Fisheries Exhibitions.

The animal products collection, which was so prominent a feature in
the exhibition of this Institution at Philadelphia, has been reorganized
and greatly extended, so that it now represents very thoroughly the
applications of animals to the uses of mankind in all parts of the world.
This collection alone, if arranged in table-cases, would occupy a floor-
space equivalent to that in one of the large halls of the new Museum
building. The Museum has received many important gifts for this col-
lection on condition that they be exhibited in New Orleans before being
finally placed in the Museum.

A selection of about 250 of the celebrated autotypes published by
Adolph Braun & Co., of Dornach, have been acquired for use at the ex-
hibitions. This collection illustrates the history of painting from the
time of Cimabue and Giotto, including copies of from one to six of the
best representative works of each celebrated master so far as it was
practicable to obtain them. This collection can be packed in a very
small space, and is particularly well suited for sending away to exhibi-
tions. It may in future be somewhat extended to good advantage.

(b) Department of Ethnology.

Prof. Otis T. Mason, for many years connected with the Columbian
University, of this city, was appointed curator of this department upon
the 1st of July. The Museum may well be congratulated upon the ad-
dition of this skillful ethnologist to its staff. Professor Mason, as is
well known, was one of the first in America to embrace in his studies
the entire subject of the natural history of man, or what is known now
as the science of anthropology. His publications upon this subject,
beginning with his paper upon the Leipsic Museum, published in the
Smithsonian Annual Report for 1873; his articles upon ethnology in
Harper’s Record of Science and Industry from 1873 to 1877; the Smith-
sonian Record of Progress from 1878 to 1884; the directions for col-
lectors for the Centennial Exposition, issued by the Indian Bureau in
1875; his lectures in the Saturday course, delivered in the Museum;
also his papers presented to the American Association, and his contri-
butions to the American Naturalist, extending over a period of twenty
years, are all devoted to the comprehensive study of man.

He was the associate of the late Mr. Louis H. Morgan in organizing
the anthropological section of the American Association in 1876, and
was one of the founders of the Anthropological Society of Washington
in 1879, writing its constitution.
REPORT OF ASSISTANT DIRECTOR. a

A prominent. characteristic of his work has been the introduction of
regular scientific methods into anthropological inquiries, treating each
savage art as the anatomist or embryologist treats his subject.

The energy of Professor Mason has already produced important re-
sults in that the ethnological collections, never before under control,
have already been provisionally classified. In the present report are
presented three papers emanating from this department—on the bas-
ketry, throwing-sticks, and bows in the National Museum—and it is
much to be hoped that the method of investigation and publication
foreshadowed in these papers will be prosecuted until the discussion of
the whole round of savage art as exemplified in our collections shall
have been completed.

During the year 3,658 specimens belonging to primitive races have
been received. In addition to these this department has been intrusted
with many objects registered in other catalogues and deposited here
for the sake of completing evolutionary series of implements, processes,
and art products. The most noteworthy accessions in 1884 were as
follows :

Illustrations of Eskimo and Indian life, from Ungava Bay and vi-
cinity, by Lucien Turner, who will prepare a monograph upon the
specimens.

Illustrations of Eskimo life at Point Barrow, collected by Lieutenant
Ray, U.S. A. Mr. John Murdoch will describe these.

Rich collections from the Eskimo of Western and Southern Alaska,
by E. W. Nelson, W. J. Fisher, Charles L. McKay, and Baron Norden-
skjold.

Specimens of the arts of the tribes of Northwest America, collected
by James G. Swan and Lieut. T. Dix Bolles. .

Many objects illustrative of the modern Indians of Yueatan, by Louis
H. Aymé.

A very large and instructive collection of objects from the Peruvian
huacas, by George W. Keifer, and Dr. William H. Jones, U.S. N.

A collection of weapons &c., from New Guinea, purchased from A. P.
Goodwin.

An exchange series of weapons from Polynesia, contributed by
Charles Heape.

During the year illustrative series of ethnological objects have been
exhibited at Cincinnati, Louisville, and New Orleans, care being taken
in each case to impress some ethnological truth, such as distribution of
types, the effect of environment, the treatment of the same art by dif-
ferent tribes, or the progress of an art from its infancy to its highest
manifestation. This special collection was displayed in 120 unit boxes,
17 double unit boxes, 37 costume boxes, and 2 slope tables. In addi-
tion, 1 model of an Eskimo house, 1 model of a Haida house, and 2
Indian busts were sent.
58 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884.

(c.) Department of American Prehistoric Pottery.

Mr. William Hs» Holmes, having been assigned by the director of the
Bureau of Ethnology of the Smithsonian Institution to the work of
preparing a report upon American aboriginal pottery, has been ap-
pointed honorary curator of this section of the Museum. He has been
engaged during the year in classifying the entire collection and in pre-
paring the exhibition series. The northwest court, which has been as-
signed to this section, will be opened to the public as soon as cases can
be provided and the specimens installed. More than 10,000 specimens
have been added to this department during the year. By far the most
prominent among the contributors is the Bureau of Ethnology, which
has added 6,000 pieces of pottery to this department. A magnificent
accession of 3,000 vases from the tombs of Chiriqui was bought from
Mr. J. C. MeNeil, and a very valuable collection from Peru has been re-
ceived through the agency of Dr. William H. Jones, U.S. N.

(ad) Department of Antiquities.

The Department of Prehistoric Antiquities, under the charge of Dr.
Charles Rau, has kept pace with all the others in growth and general
progress. The present somewhat unsettled condition of the upper main
hall of the Smithsonian building, in which these collections are exhib-
ited, is due to the fact that the arts and industries collections, formerly
placed here, have not been entirely removed, owing to the lack of ex-
hibition cases in the new building. The arrangement of the gallery of
antiquities is, however, as far advanced as any in the Museum. To as
great an extent as opportunity and case-room have permitted, Dr. Rau
has carried out his double system of arrangement, placing in one ex-
tensive series, which is for the most part exhibited in flat cases, col-
lections grouped according to material and form, enabling visitors to
take in at a glance ‘‘ the whole culture of prehistoric North America, in
so far as can be represented by tangible tokens.” In another series are
placed special collections, including the articles found in given single
localities, whether mounds, graves, or shell-deposit districts. It is in
the arrangement of these special collections that the most noticeable
changes have been made.

Here, as elsewhere, the preparations for the New Orleans Exposition
have seriously interfered with the general work. An extensive educa-
tional series of stone implements, illustrating American archeology, has,
however, been prepared, and casts have been made of every character-
istic form of stone implement. The collection, when complete, will con-
stitute, in fact, a set of illustrations in actuality of the text of Dr. Rau’s
paper entitled ‘‘ The Archeological. Collection of the United States Na-
tional Museum,”* and the work, which has been done well, will be of

*Published by the Smithsonian Institution, 1876, as No. 287, Smithsonian Contri-
butions to Knowledge.

ss REPORT OF ASSISTANT DIRECTOR. 59

service not only for future exhibitions, but in the preparation of typical
collections to be distributed to educational institutions.

The number of accessions during the year amounted to 5,441, and the
total number of specimens in the collection is 45,252, of which 8,522 are
duplicates. The principal literary product of the department has been
a work upon prehistoric fishing in Europe and North America, pre-
pared by the curator.

18. DIVISION OF ZOOLOGY.

(a) Department of Mammals.

Notwithstanding the absence of the curator, Mr. Frederick W. True,
in Europe during the first quarter of the year, and other diversions of
. his attention and time to routine work not connected with his regular
duties, the progress of this department has been exceedingly satisfac-
tory. The work upon the exhibition series has been hampered by the
fact that money has not been available for the construction of the de-
sired cases in the mammal hall. The collection is now, for the first
time in many years, thoroughly classified and under control, and the
total number of skins and alcoholic specimens is reported to be 5,604,
of skulls and skeletons 4,212, making a total of 9,908.

The accessions of the year have, in number, variety, and importance,
been fully equal to those of earlier periods. No less than 38 specimens,
including such rare and peculiar forms as the eland, harnessed antelope,
cheetah, two species of lemur, wart-hog, and baboons, have been re-
ceived from the proprietors of zoological gardens and menageries, for
which due acknowledgments are given in the Museum report. An un-
usual number of cetaceans and seals, many of great novelty and inter-
est, have been received from various sources. The amount of taxider-
mie work accomplished has been unusually great, owing to a special
allotment for the employment of extra help, made from the appropria-
tion for the New Orleans Exhibition, 149 specimens in all having been
added to the mounted series, including several large forms such as the
buffalo, puma, jaguar, and beaver.

(b) Department of Birds.

This year is shown by the report of Mr. Ridgway to have been one
of unusual activity in the Department of Birds. The collections have
been entirely rearranged, and the exhibition series is receiving a com-
plete overhauling. Over 1,200 skins have been mounted, and several
hundred of them fastened on walnut stands. Copy for 1,000 labels has
been prepared. The total number of specimens in the reserve series is
50,550, 6,800 of which are in the exhibition series. In this, as in several
other departments, the main direction of effort during the year was to-
wards the preparation of the special exhibit of North American game-
birds for the New Orleans Exposition, comprising 171 specimens, repre-
60 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884.

senting 123 species. Considerable time was also spent in unpacking
and installing the exhibits which had been sent to the International
Fisheries Exhibition, London, in 1883. -

Mr. Ridgway reports that the year has been unprecedented in the
extent of the accessions. The number of birds added during the year
is 8,142, 2,658 skins having been distributed. Of this number 94 speci-
mens were collected during the cruise of the United States Fish Com-
mission steamer Albatross among the West India Islands; 675 speci-
mens, mainly from Japan, and presented by Capt. T. W. Blackiston;
473 specimens from the British Museum; 768 specimens from Alaska
and 21 specimens from Arizona, collected by E. W. Nelson; 256 speci-
mens, chiefly from India, received from Mr. R. Bowdler Sharpe, of the
British Museum; 84 specimens presented by Dr. Leonhard Stejneger;
478 specimens from Northern California, and 55 specimens from the Far- ~
allone Islands, collected by Mr. Charles H. Townsend; and 1,705 speci-
mens from Ungava, Labrador, collected by Mr. Lucien M. Turner,
Many other large and valuable accessions were also made, as will be
seen by referring to the list of accessions, in the report of the curator.
Nearly 3,000.specimens were sent out in exchange or loaned for exami-
nation.

Birds’ eggs.

The collection of birds’ eggs’ has been overhauled and rearranged

by Capt. Charles E. Bendire, U.S. A., the honorary curator of this de-
partment, who has also presented to the Museum his magnificent col-
leetion of about 8,000 eggs. The grand total of specimens in this sec-
tion is 40,072, of which 35,800 are North American. This collection now
represents nearly all that is known of American oology, and contains
40,072 specimens, of which 4,272 are foreign.
- A large collection of 468 specimens was received from Dr. James C.
Merrill, U. S. A. Other important accessions were made by Mr. E.
W. Nelson, Lieut. P. H. Ray, U.S. A., Dr. Leonhard Stejneger, Mr.
Charles H. Townsend, Governor Fencher, of Godthaab, Greenland, and
others.

Forty-five specimens were exchanged or loaned for examination.

(c) Department of Reptiles and Batrachians.

Extensive and valuable additions have been made to the collections
of this department during the year. Dr. H. C. Yarrow has continued
to serve as curator in the capacity of volunteer. It has not yet been
found practicable to assign any space in the Museum for the exhibition
of these collections, and owing to the already crowded condition of the
new Museum building it is feared that no exhibition space can be as-
signed to this department until the Museum shall have been enabled to
extend its walls. During the summer the curator visited Utah for the
purpose of scientific study, and while there collected many interesting
REPORT OF ASSISTANT DIRECTOR 61

specimens of reptiles, which were added to the Museum collections.
The principal accessions to this department in 1884 were made by Capt.
Charles Bendire, U. 8S. A., Mr. Charles H. Townsend, Mr. C.J. Hering,
and by the scientific staff which accompanied the United States Fish
Commission steamer Albatross on her cruise to the West Indies.

(ad) Department of Fishes.

The work upon this extensive and unwieldly collection has made fine
progress during the year. The curator, Dr. Bean, has nearly completed
his card catalogue of the reserve series, and during the summer Prof.
D. 8. Jordan was employed, in the interest of the New Orleans Exhibi-
tion, in selecting out a special exhibition series to include all the fresh-
water fishes of the United States, and to make a special collecting trip
through the Mississippi Valley, with the view to supply such species as
were lacking in the collection. This trip has been of great importance
to the science of ichthyology, bringing to light very many important
facts concerning the fishes of a region not previously explored ichthyo-
logically, and throwing much light upon the whole subject of distri-
bution. Out of the 560 fresh-water species known to inhabit North
America, the Museum now has all but 49, 30 having been added by this
trip, and some 25 new species having been brought to light.

Of the $3 accessions to this department during the year 34 are re-
garded as of great value. <A large collection was received from Mr. L.
M. Turner. The U.S. Fish Commission contributed fifteen bottles of
deep-sea forms, including at least 20 new fishes from the deep-sea fauna.
These were of great value. Prof. D.S. Jordan sent a collection of Vene-
tian fishes containing 23 species; a large collection of fishes from Cuba
and Florida, containing many new species; a collection of fresh-water
fishes from Southern Missouri, Kansas, Arkansas, Indian Territory, In-
diana, &c. The curator added to the collection of this department 63
species of marine and fresh-water fishes from Great South Bay, Long
Island, and vicinity.

The total number of entries in the catalogue during the year was
3,015. '

During the year 127 drawings of fisbes were added to the portfolio,
117 of which were made by Mr. H. L. Todd, and 10 by Miss. M. M. Smith,
whose ability for this work is very decided.

Forty-one papers based upon material belonging to the department
were published by signatures in the Proceedings of the National Mu-
seum for 1554.

The number of specimens in the collections is estimated at about
68,000, of which 36,000 are in the reserve series, 21,000 on exhibition,
and some 12,000 duplicates.

A laborious and slow operation has been the transfer of the specimens
from the old tanks into new ones and into glass jars.
62 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884.
(e) Department of Comparative Anatomy.

A Department of Comparative Anatomy is being organized, under the
charge of Mr. Frederick W. True, and the east-south range has been
fitted up with aset of cases especially constructed after new designs for
the reception of the preparations. Mr. Lucas, with his two assistants,
has been engaged during the latter part of the year in mounting skele-
tons, and fully 150 fine preparations have been put on exhibition. The
report of Mr. True upon the plan of organization will not be presented
until next year, since much preparatory work remains to be done. A
case illustrating the work in this department was sent to the New Or-
leans Exposition.

(f) Department of Mollusks.

Mr. W. H. Dall, who has for many years had charge of the collection
of mollusks, having been appointed one of the paleontologists of the
Geological Survey, and assigned to the Department of Quaternary Mol-
lusks, has, by the request of the Director of the Survey, been assigned
working-rooms in the Smithsonian building, and will continue to care
for the department as heretofore, access to the collections of recent
shells being necessary for comparison with the shells of the Quaternary
beds, which are, for the most part, specifically identical. Prof. R. H.C.
Stearns, late of the University of California, has been assigned to this
department as adjunct curator, and since the 1st of July there has
been great activity in rearranging the collections. It was decided to
make an extensive display of the mollusks of the United States at the
New Orleans Exposition, and the well-known Stearns collection of mol-
lusks, for which negotiations had been in progress for some years, was
purchased from the exhibition appropriation. Professor Stearns had
in charge the preparation of the series for New Orleans, which occupied
his time from July until the end of the year. This occupied twenty
large cases, and exhibits the economic mollusks of both coasts and the
adjacent seas, and the fresh-water mussels which form so remarkable a
part of the fauna of the great Mississippi basin. Mr. R. Ellsworth Call
has been employed for six months in connection with the New Orleans
work, and by the efforts of these three conchologists, with the help of
two clerks, much progress has been made toward getting under final
control the immense mass of material in this department.

The identification of the specimens representing the American land
shells has occupied the attention of the curator. He has also devoted
himself to the study of the deep-sea forms obtained from the Gulf of
Mexico and the Caribbean Sea by Prof. Alexander Agassiz.

It is Mr. Dall’s opinion that, when the mass of material which yet re-
mains to be examined has been classified, the national collections, as
far as the fauna of North America and its adjacent seas is concerned,
will not be surpassed by any other collection in the world,
REPORT OF ASSISTANT DIRECTOR. — 63

The most important accessions to this department in 1884 were pre-
sented by Henry Hemphill, the United States Signal Office, Dr. Leon-
hard Stejneger, Rev. E. Lehnert, Dr. William H. Jones, U.S. N., and
ht. Ellsworth Call.

(g) Department of Insects.

Prof. C. V. Riley has, as in previous years, voluntarily assumed the
care of the entomological material which has come in, and his own
valuable and constantly-increasing collection remains a deposit in the
Museum. A collection of insects injurious to forest trees, mounted in
Museum cases, in the style which it is proposed by Professor Riley to
adopt in the arrangement of our exhibition series when the opportunity
comes, was sent to the International Forestry Exhibition in Edinburgh
and received a gold medal. Fifty-five accession lots were received
during the year, the nfost valuable being the collection made by L. M.
Turner, at Ungava Bay, H. B. T.

There were 55 accessions to this department during the year, of which
the collections made by Mr. Lucien M. Turner is perhaps the most val-
uable. ;

The curator was called epon by the Department of Agriculture to pre-
pare an exhibit for the New Orleans Exposition, and it was agreed that
upon the return of this exhibit to Washington it should be incorporated
with the Museum collections. It is hoped that the financial condition
of the Museum will soon warrant the placing of this very important and
long-neglected department upon a footing of equality with the others.

(h) Department of Marine Invertebrates.*

In the Department of Marine Invertebrates, exclusive of the mollusca,
under the charge of Mr. Rathbun, 240 cases or specimens, enumerated
in 72 accessions, have been added during the year. Of these, the most
important have been received from the United States Fish Commission,
from Dr. Edward Palmer, a collector employed in the interest of the
New Orleans Exhibition, and from various naval sources. The Fish
Commission collections are mainly illustrative of the recent deep-sea
explorations of the steamer Albatross, off the eastern coast of the United
States, and in the Gulf of Mexico and Caribbean Sea, and contain many
new additions to science, which have been worked up only in part. They
fill several thousand jars and vials. The collection of Dr. Palmer was
made for the purpose of representing, at the World’s Fair in New
Orleans, the varied animal resources of the coral reef and sponge re-
gions of southern and western Florida. It consists for the most part
of finely prepared specimens of commercial and other sponges, orna-
mental corals, and the larger species of crustaceans and mollusks used
as food, and required 65 large shipping cases to’ transport it to Wash-
ington. Supplemental to this is an extensive collection made by Mr.
Henry Hemphill on the western coast of Florida.

* Exclusive of the mollusea.
64 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884.

Among the more interesting of the naval contributions are several col-
lections of crustaceans and echinoderms obtained by Dr. W. H. Jones,
U.S. N., in different parts of the Pacific Ocean. A number of valuable
collections, carefully identified, have also been received from competent
European authorities, and will be of great service in the elaboration of
new materials contained in the Museum.

The increase of accessions to this department has been so great dur-
ing the year, especially by reason of the material furnished by the Fish
Commission, that, even with the aid of three or four assistants, little
more could be done than to take care of the new material.

(i) Department of Invertebrate Fossils (Paleozoic Section).

The collections of this department are arranged in 13 unit table cases,
and in office trays equivalent in capacity toas many more. Mr. Walcott
estimates the total number of specimens at 25,000, including the old
Smithsonian collections, and the accessions from the recent Govern-
ment surveys and other sources up to the present time. The most im-
portant accession of the year is that of Devonian and Carboniferous
fossils from the United States Geological Survey, many of them types
of new species, and forming the basis of Mr. Walcott’s recent report
upon *“ The Paleontology of the Eureka District, Nevada.”

Mr. Walcott has devoted his time chiefly to the identification and
labeling of the accessions, and has, as far as possible, advanced the
work of arranging the old collections of the Smithsonian Institution.
Inasmuch as the curator holds the position of paleozoic paleontologist
of the United States Geological Survey, it is impossible that progress
in the work upon the Museum collections can be as rapid as would be
the case were it practicable for Mr. Walcott to devote his entire time
to these. It must, however, be remembered that these result, from his
work in connection with the Geological Survey, in many important addi-
tions to the Museum collections.

A comparison between the unassorted condition of the collections
under Mr. Walcott’s care in the winter of 1883 with their present state
of classification and arrangement makes evident the fact that this de-
partment is among the most highly developed in the Museum.

(k) Department of Invertebrate Fossils (Meso-Cenozoic Section).

The accessions of the year in this department consist of 85 boxes
from the Geological Survey, embracing collections made in California,
Oregon, New Jersey, Florida, Alabama, and Mississippi, and 15 miscel-
laneous lots seut from private sources to the Museum. The catalogue
numbers 1,158 entries. From Dr. White, the curator of this depart-
ment, as from many others, there comes a request for more room; these
requests we are striving to grant as rapidly as the appropriation for
the construction of cases will allow, but it is doubtful if the necessi-
ties of the case can be fully met until a new building can be put up.
REPORT OF ASSISTANT DIRECTOR. 65

Dr. White is preparing a complete index of all the mesozoic and ceno-
zoic invertebrate fossils of North America. <A catalogue of all the
type-specimens of the mesozoic and cenozoic species belonging to the
Museum, is nearly completed.

19. DIVISION OF BOTANY.

(a) Department of Plants, Fossil and Recent.

The collection of fossil plants now contains 923 distinct species iden-
tified and installed. The report of Prof. Lester F. Ward contains
elaborate statistics of the collection, from which it appears that 7,291
specimens have already been catalogued. The accessions of the year
have been of but slight importance. The Joad collection of recent
plants has not yet been unpacked, owing to lack of room, but will soon
be arranged and in proper condition for study. During the year Mr.
William R. Smith, superintendent of the Government botanic gardens,
has placed in the rotunda of the new building a number of very beau-
tiful palms, which add very much to the attractiveness of the apart-
ment, and which, having been selected with reference to their economic
importance to man, will, when labeled, furnish instruction as well as
pleasure to the visitors.

Through the assistance of Mr. Frank H. Knowlton, the curator has
been enabled to classify and catalogue a large mass of unassorted ma-
terial which has accumulated in this department.

20. DIVISION OF GEOLOGY.
(a) Department of Mineralogy.

Considerable progress has been achieved in the development of this
department. - The curator has performed valuable work in instituting
scientific investigation upon specimens, the results of which have been
valuable to the Museum.

During the year the growth of the collections has heer steady and
encouraging, the work of installing the collections has been definitely
begun, and a system of exchanges has been fairly inaugurated. The
reserve series contains 5,881 specimens, and the duplicate series, 5,883.

The accessions have been large and numerous. The most important
is that of Mr. Joseph Willcox, Media, Pa. This collection consists of
about 1,400 specimens, and is in some respects one of the finest in
America. The collection of Col. J. J. Abert, presented by his son, J.
T. Abert, and consisting of 1,245 specimens, is also of great value and
interest.

An allotment of $2,500 from the New Orleans appropriation was de-
voted to building up the collection of gems and ornamental stones. The
schedule adopted included all the gems proper, rock crystal, agates and
jaspers, malachite, lapis-lazuli, &c., and every important gem or orna-
mental species was secured both in the rough and cut conditions.

8. Mis, 33, pt. 2—~6
66 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884.

About 1,000 specimens are on exhibition at New Orleans, of which
nearly one-third are cut and polished.stones. A part of this collection
was exhibited at Cincinnati, whene it was awarded a silver medal.
In connection with the New Orleans work, two important collecting
trips were made ‘by Mr. Yeates to northern New York, and the Hot
Springs of Arkansas. The total number of specimens in the collection
is estimated at 15,288. The curator, while in the field in connection
with the United States Geological Survey, did excellent work for the
Museum. Many good things were also obtained through exchange.

(b) Department of Lithology and Physical Geology.

The accessions to this department, which is under the curatorship of
Mr. George P. Merrill, have been very numerous. The total number of
entries amounts to 2,541, including not less than 300 specimens adminis-
stered upon during the year. Important contributions have been re-
ceived from 107 sources, besides many others of minor value. ‘The most
prominent donations to the department were a series of rocks and
tufas from Utah, Nevada, and California, collected by Mr. I. C. Russell
and transferred by the Geological Survey, and a large collection of
building-stones from Mr. John 8. F. Batchen; Messrs. Wharton, Hough-
ton, Bartlett, and Marshall, Messrs. Abbott and Stearns, Lieut. G. N.
Stoney, Mr. J. 8. Diller, Dr. T. M. Chatard, the Esperanza Marble Comn-
pany, Mr. L. J. Griffin, Mr. A. C. Proctor, Bowker, Torrey & Company,
Messrs. Dimond & Hall, and Prof. Thomas Robinson, also made valu-
able contributions. Mr. Merrill prepared a large and important series
of specimens of the building and ornamental stones of the United
States for the New Orleans Exposition, comprising 358 specimens, an
educational series of rocks, containing 500 specimens, and a collection
of rock-forming minerals. In this work he had the efficient assistance
of Mr. L. H. Merrill, and the services of a number of stone-cutters for
some months. In addition to this work, 1,557 descriptive labels were
printed and 200 thin sections of rocks prepared.

The exhibition series of the lithological collections comprises about
800 specimens, and this number can easily be doubled as soon as cases
are provided. Some of the beautiful colored photographic enlarge-
ments on glass, illustrating the structure of twelve selected types of
rocks, were among the most striking products of the year’s work in
Mr. Merrill’s laboratory and are of very great educational value. As ¢
supplement to the building-stone collection, a set of photographic nega-
tives of some of the more important stone buildings in the country has
been made, and from them enlarged prints (30 by 40 inches) have been
prepared and colored, showing the appearance of various kinds of
building stones used in architectural work.

The most important collections in the Department of Physical Geology
are: the collection of lavas from Ice Springs Butte, Utah; two speci-

mens of glacial polished mica from Prof. Ff, W. Clarke, and one large

x. -
REPORT OF ASSISTANT DIRECTOR. 67

block of glacial polished marble, a gift of the Gouverneur Marble Com-
pany.

The total number of specimens in the reserve series is estimated at
15,000, of which some 3,000 are on exhibition. Of these 4,246 are
building or ornamental stones, 1,658 of which are on exhibition. The
number of specimens in the duplicate series is about 5,000,

(¢) Department of Metallurgy and Economic Geology.

An immense amount of work has been performed in this department
during the year. The curator, Mr. Fred. P. Dewey, divides the mate-
rial administered upon and collected during the year into four classes:
(1) those received as accessions in the usual way; (2) those received
from the permanent exhibition in Philadelphia; (5) those received from
the Boston Exhibition, and (4) the material specially collected for dis-
play at the New Orleans Exposition. The collections embraced under
the last head were very numerous and valuabie. <A series of 87 speci-
mens, representing the occurrence of placer gold at most of the promi-
nent regions, was purchased, and is the most full and complete collec-
tion of its kind in the country. The early part of the year was devoted
to administration upon great quautities of material which had been
accumulating for many years, and was stored away in the southwest
court. From this source alone 7,540 new specimens were added to the
collections of the department. Not less than 9,500 specimens have
been placed on exhibition, and the total number of specimens in the
department is estimated at 40,000.

Since July, Mr. Dewey and his staff have been preparing the New
Orleans collection, having an allotment of $5,000 wherewith to illus-
trate the metallic resources of the country, and by the aid of a number
of volunteer assistants in the field the collection has received accessions
of very great value, which make it one of the most valuable metallur-
gical collections in tlfe world.

The organization of the collections in economic geology has con-
sumed a great deal of time. The curator reports that in the develop-
ment of this branch of the department a serious obstacle is presented
by the unwillingness on the part of mine owners to impart such infor-
mation as is necessary in order that the specimens shall attain their
highest value in an educational series.

Mr. Thomas Donaldson has continued the work of cataloguing and
packing the collection of the American Institute of Mining Engineers,
which, having been presented to the Museum, are still in Philadelphia
under his charge.

21. MISCELLANEOUS DEPARTMENTS.
(a) Exploration and field work.

As in previous years the work of exploration and investigations in
the field has been under the immediate auspices of the Smithsonian In-
stitution, and under the special care and direction of the Secretary, who
68 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884.

has published a full account in his report to the Regents of the Insti-
tution, pages 13-28.

An abstract of this report, giving special references to the additions
made to the collections through the efforts of explorers, is here pre-
sented.

Greenland.—Considering that the whole energy of the Greely Relief
Expedition had to be devoted to the rescue of the Lady Franklin Bay
party, the natural history collections are richer than might have been
expected; the numerous photographs of the country, of the natives,
and the ice, in its various shapes and formations, will be of lasting value.

The physical observations during the course of the expedition were
made part of the regular routine of the vessels. The natural history
work was prosecuted by naval ensigns who had been sent by the Navy
Department to the Smithsonian Institution specially for the purpose of
being trained for such duty. Among these were Messrs. C. A. Harlow,
A. A. Ackerman, and C.8. McClain. These gentlemen had all been
trained at the Institution in the methods of instantaneous photography,
in taxidermy, and in the collecting of minerals and fossils; and although
the time occupied by the expedition was very much less than had been
anticipated, very interesting and desirable collections of rock specimens,
minerals, fossils, numerous birds, and of fishes and marine invertebrates
in alcohol, were made by the gentlemen mentioned.

The Greely Relief Expedition fully and entirely carried out its mis-
sion of restoring the survivors of the Greely party to their friends in
the United States. By far the greater part, however, of the apparatus
and collections made in the several years of absence was left behind at
Fort Conger, and may never be recovered. A few specimens were
brought home by Lieutenant Greely, but have not been received at the
National Museum. .

Labrador.—The reports of 1882 and 1883 give full details of the work
prosecuted by Mr. L. M. Turner at Fort Chimo, Uhgava Bay, in North-
ern Labrador. Mr. Turner’s two years of detail expiring in 1884, he
returned to Washington and is now engaged in preparing his report.
His collections are described by him as consisting :

‘Of birds, 1,800 specimens ; eggs, 1,800 specimens; fishes, 1,000 speci-
mens; mammals, 200 specimens; ethnological, 600 articles; plants, a
great number; insects, over 200,000; geological specimens, a great
variety; Eskimo linguistics, over 500 pages of manuscript, embracing
thousands of words and over 800 sentences, which were obtained dur-
ing the winter nights and at other times when outdoor work could no
be done.” :

Reference was made in a preceding report to the work accomplished
by Dr. C. Hart Merriam in the investigation of the natural history of
the seals of the coast of Labrador; the arrangements made by him in
Newfoundland and Labrador have furnished additional material in the
way of skins and skeletons of several species of seals, the results of
which he has shared with the National Museum,
REPORT OF ASSISTANT DIRECTOR. 69

Arctic coast.—Captain Healy and officers of the revenue steamer Cor-
win have supplied collections of minerals, birds, fish, invertebrates, &c.,
from Hotham Inlet and other points along the coast.

Lieut. George M. Stoney, U.S. N., of the schooner Ounalaska, who
had visited Arctic America and explored Hotham Inlet and the rivers
entering into it, obtained an interesting series of rocks from the volcano
in Behring’s Sea. The collections made by him have not, however, yet
come to hand.

Both Captain Healy and Lieutenant Stoney have furnished specimens
of some minerals which were supposed to be jade, but which proved to
be serpentine and green quartzite.

The Pacific Steam Whaling Company established during the year a
depot at Cape Lisburne, with Mr. D. Woolfe in command, for the pur-
pose of mining coal for the use of the whalers, and specimens of this
coal and of the associated fossils have been furnished.

The North Pacific—Reterence was made in a previous report to the
very important work accomplished by Dr. L. Stejneger in Kamtschatka
and the adjacent group of the Commander Islands. Through the cour-
tesy of Governor Grebnitski, in command of these islands, a number of
additional collections were received.

Dr. Stejneger also received from Captain Hunter some skins and
skeletons of the mountain sheep of Kamtschatka.

Alaska.—The Signal Service station at Nushagak, on Bristol Bay, has
been re-established by Mr. J. W. Johnson, from whom a collection of
birds was lately received, which was specially noteworthy as containing
specimens of the Alaska willow wren and of the yellow wagtail, repre-
senting a locality many hundreds of miles further south than Saint
Michael’s, the place of previous record.

Mr. John J. McLean, of the Signal Service, stationed at Sitka, has
secured many ethnological objects of great rarity.

Mr. W. J. Fischer, who is stationed by the Coast Survey at Kodiak,
has used many opportunities both there and in the adjacent regions to
continue his important work; this including much information in re-
gard to the manners and characteristics of the native tribes.

From the Rev. J. Loomis Gould a collection of Indian carvings and
other articles of ethnology was obtained, representing some quite new
forms of aboriginal construction.

Oregon and California. —From Oregon the most noteworthy collec-
tions are those furnished by Capt. Charles Bendire, at Fort Klamath.

The returns from California consist of numerous collections of shells,
minerals, fossils, and archeological objects from Mr. R. E. C. Stearns.

Other specimens are birds from Mr. L. Belging, and fossils from Mr.
C. R. Orcutt.

Mr. Charles H. Townsend, of the United States Fish Commission,
has supplied the most extensive collection of mammals ever received
from California. The collection also embraces numerous skins, skele-
.

70 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884.

tons, and skulls of sea lions and seals from the Farralone Islands, and
of sea elephants from South California.

Arizona and New Mexico.—These Territories have been well repre-
sented; the former by the mammals, birds, and other objects of interest
furnished by Mr. E. W. Nelson; the latter by an enormous collection
of modern Indian pottery and other articles, made under the auspices
of the Bureau of Ethnology, and others obtained by Mr. James Steven-
son under similar direction.

Some contributions to the fauna of New Mexico were supplied by Dr.
Rh. W. Shufeldt, of the Army, from his station at Fort Wingate.

Bastern portion of the United States—The exploration of the fresh-
water fish fauna of the Mississippi Valley made by Professors Jordan
and Gilbert in behalf of the New Orleans International Exposition is
specially worthy of mention. Several months were occupied in this
service, and many hundreds of species obtained and prepared for exhibi-
tion. Dr. Palmer was detailed to collect the corals of the Florida Keys
and the Tortugas. Henry Hemphill also made collections of the inver-
tebrates of Florida.

The collections of the United States Fish Commission along the east-
ern Coast of the United States have been noteworthy, especially those
from the labors of the Fish Commission steamer Albatross in the
deep waters off the coast.

General collections were made by the Albatross of the Jand fauna of
the coast of the Gulf of Mexico as well as of the marine, resulting in
the addition of a very great number of species to the National Museum,
of which a noted proportion are of scientific interest. Among these
may be mentioned eight new species of birds found on the islands of
Curagoa and Old Providence.

Professor Poey has continued his contributions of fishes from Cuba.

Dr. Nichols, of Dominica, has continued his donations of birds, mol-
lusks, &e., while from Mr. Morris, director of the public gardens and
plantations in Jamaica, many samples of valuable fibers have been
secured.

Mexico and Central America.—Professor Alfred Dugés, of Guanajuato,
Mexico, has continued his transmissions of objects of natural history,
among them being some rare species of birds, &c. Mr. McLeod, of
Jesus Maria, in Mexico, has also furnished some rare birds.

Mr. Romero, the Mexican minister, supplied a series of the playing
eards and other gambling implements of the Mexican Indians.

The services of Louis Aymé, late consul at Merida, were secured to
prosecute some investigations into the ethnology of Yucatan and West-
ern Mexico, especially with a view of showing the relationships between
the habits and manufactures of the Indians of those regions and those
of the southern portion of the United States. Several large collections
have already been received from him, and others of still greater moment
are on the way.

REPORT OF ASSISTANT DIRECTOR. 71

Other collections, especially of birds, from Yucatan have been fur-
nished by Mr. Gaumer. :

Valuable illustrations of the animal and vegetable kingdoms of Gua-
temala and Salvador were secured from the Government Commissioners
of those countries to the foreign exhibition held in Boston in the autumn
of 1883. These, with similar collections under similar auspices obtained
from Venezuela and Brazil, were transferred to the National Museum
early in 1884.

Costa Rica.—Mr. J. C. Zeledon has transmitted specimens of medici-

-nal plants, of birds, of vertebrated animals, and of ethnology.

Mr. R. Iglesias, of Chiriqui, has contributed antiquities and modern
pottery.

South America.—Interesting collections representing the natural prod.
ucts of the animal and vegetable kingdoms of Venezuela and Brazil were
secured from the Governments of Venezuela and Brazil. Dr. William
H. Jones, U. S. N., has contributed some extremely important collee-
tions of the antiquities and natural history of the coast of Peru and
Chili, and to some extent of the Galapagos Islands.

Mr. Kiefer, of Lima, has also made similar contributions.

Professor Nation has sent types of rare and undescribed species of
birds of Peru.

Dr. William Crawford, U. S. N., has contributed some fine shells
from the west coast of Terra del Fnegoand the Straits of Magellan.

The magnificent collection of recent and fossil shells of Europe, be-
longing to Mr. J. Gwyn Jeffries, of London, has been acquired by
the National Museum and in large part received. This is by far the
most valuable private collection of European shells in existence, and
especially important in possessing so many types of the deep-sea spe-
cies dredged in the North Atlantie.

Among contributors to the European collections may be mentioned
the Royal College of Surgeons, the South Kensington Museum, the Brit-
ish Museum, the Royal Botanical Gardens at Kew, in England; the Muse-
ums of Berlin and Dresden, in Germany; of Copenhagen, in Denmark ;
of Bergen, in Norway, &c.

Asia.—The collections from Asia have been of unusual significance
and importance. Reference has been made to the accessions from
Kamtschatka and the Commander Islands obtained through the efforts
of Dr. Stejneger.

Mr. P. L. Jouy has continued his researches in Japan, and bas sup-
plied a large number of species of mammals and birds of that region,
together with other species of animals. The collection of birds being
taken in connection with a series presented by Mr. Thomas Blackiston,
who spent many years in Japan, gives to the National Museum one of
the most complete collections of Japanese birds in existence, and one
greatin value in view of their relationships to the birds of Western
North America.
he REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884,

Rev. C. H. A. Dall has furnished samples of fibers and other nativé
products of the Indies, and the greater part of the exhibit of the For-
eign Exhibition in Boston made by Ceylon has been received; while a
very valuable collection of musical instruments of East India were con-
tributed by the Rajah of Tagore.

Africa.—This country is represented by a few objects of art and in-
dustry, while from New Guinea the collection of weapons, implements,
&¢., obtained from Mr. A. P. Goodwin, has added very greatly to our
representation of that little known island.

The Sandwich Islands.—The greater part of the exhibit made by the
Hawaiian Government at the Boston Foreign Exhibition was secured
and transferred to the National Museum.

(b) Chemistry.

The chemical laboratory of the Smithsonian Institution, which was
for a time transferred to the custody of the Museum, has now been as
such abandoned. The chemical analyses which it is found necessary
to have made in connection with the work of the Museum and the cor-
respondence of the Smithsonian Institution are made under the di-
rection of the chemist of the Geological Survey, Prof. F. W. Clarke,
who occupies laboratories in the northeast pavilion of the Museum
building, and who is authorized by the Director of the Geological Sur-
vey to carry on investigations of this character as a partial return for
the accommodations afforded to the Survey in the Museum building.

(c) Experimental physiology.

Mr. John A. Ryder, embryologist of the United States Fish Commis-
sion, occupies a laboratory in the east wing of the Smithsonian building
and is constantly engaged in physiological and embryological researches
upon material supplied by the Museum and Fish Commission. He may,
therefore, for the present be regarded as the honorary head of this de-
partment, and his numerous contributions to zoological literature are
included in the bibliography of the work of the officers of the Museum.

(ad) Vivaria.

A small collection of living animals is always kept up under the
charge of the chief taxidermist. The collection of aquatic animals at
the Government carp ponds, is still in a flourishing condition.
ate FT.

REPORTS OF THE CURATORS AND ACTING CURATORS OF THE
UNITED STATES NATIONAL MUSEUM UPON THE PROGRESS
OF THEIR WORK DURING THE YEAR 1884.

1 (A4).—REPORT ON THE SECTION OF MATERIA MEDICA IN THE
U. $8. NATIONAL MUSEUM, FOR THE YEAR 1884.

By H. G. Bryer, M. D., Assistant Surgeon, U. S. N., Honorary Curator.

Accessions of the year.— Dering the past year specimens of drugs have
been contributed to this department, principally by D. Morris, esq.,
director of Public Gardens and Plantations, Jamaica; Messrs. F, W.
Stearns & Co., Detroit, Mich.; Mr. G. W. Jewett, inspector of drugs,
New York; and Messrs. Fritzsche Bros., New York; numbering in all
406,

Method of arrangement.—W hen specimens are received they are, after
being carefully examined, entered upon the register, and according to
their condition are dried, bottled, and labeled, after which they are added
to the exhibit, which is arranged as follows: First, animal products;
second, vegetable products; third, products of fermentation and dis-
tillation; fourth, inorganic products; the entire collection being pre-
faced by an array of all the “‘medicinal forms” in which medicines are
administered. In addition to the above there is a separate collection
of Chinese materia medica.

Sueceeding the general collection is an exhibit of some of the most
popular mineral waters. Each of these is shown in the quantity of 10
liters, and with it each of its saline constituents, in the exact weight
which analysis has shown to be present in that volume of the water;
thus representing to the eye the quantity of each constituent salt in-
gested with a given quantity of water, and furnishing a quantitative
table, without the use of figures, for comparison of the different mineral
waters.

A catalogue of the collection has been printed, and a classification of
the forms in which drugs are administered, by Dr. James M. Flint, U.S,
N.: also will be found a “ Report on the Pharmacopceais of all Nations,”
by Dr. Flint. No original researches have beén carried on in this De-
partment, owing to the want of necessary apparatus.

Illustrative of drug-yielding plants, there are now properly placed on
exhibition 136 photographs and 350 colored plates.

During the year 1,500 labels have been sent to the printer; at present
893 are permanently attached to specimens.
AOS REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884.

Condition of the collection.—The following is an accurate statement:

Number of specimens now on exhibition, .\..c<22 ssc.+-neeu see sabe eee eee ane 3, 201
Number of specimens awaiting case room... --..- 2006 2-05 saec anccencannstance 289
Number of specimens, duplicates |... 522-4 222.55. oe ae eee eee ee eee eee 300
(otal mumberientered on repister -.socace- cee see ee eee ee seen eee psa rman eave 4, 442

The origin of this collection dates to 1882, when the Agricultural De-
partment transferred to this institution the several collections of drugs
which were exhibited at the International Exhibition, Philadelphia,
1876. It has, through the kindness of the wholesale drug firms of
W. H. Schieffelin & Co., N. Y.; Parke, Davis & Co., Detroit, Mich.; Mec-
Kesson & Robbins, N. Y.; Wallace Bros., Statesville, N. C., and others,
together with exchanges with foreign museums, grown to be one of the
largest of its kind.

The object of such a collection is to exhibit drugs in their crude state,
and the different preparations of them, and thus serve to illustrate to
what stage of perfection man has arrived in the use of medicines.

The collection at present as a whole already represents the principal
drugs in most of their commercial varieties now in use by the civilized
people of the world, including nearly all of the new remedies that have
lately been brought to the notice of the profession. Therefore the prog-
ress of the future development of this collection of the Museum can per-
haps hardly be expected to be as rapid as it has been in the past, for
the majority of acquisitions will be found to consist of duplicates.

The labelling of the collection, which heretofore has been the most
important routine work, has offered many serious difficulties. The prin-
cipal ones may be plainly traced to two sources, viz: First, the difficulty
of judiciously and carefully condensing information when such is found
in abundance, so that it will only occupy the limited space allowed for
each label by the Museum regulations, keeping in constant view the
double end of the exhibit, which is that of a popular exhibition for the
information of the general visitor as well as a scientific collection and
arrangement of facts for the pharmaceutical and medical student. Sec-
ondly, the obscure drugs of which either very little is known or, at any
rate, information is very imperfect. The labelling of the entire collec-
tion, which has been zealously pursued, will probably be finished during
the first part of 1885.

Recommendations for future work.—It now remains to extend the use-
fulness and importance of this section of the Museum in a direction
which, from the natural course of events, it must go to bring it up to
the prestige of that scientific institution of which, in time to come, it
will, it is to be hoped, form a most important part.

Plant analysis and pharmacological experiments, or the investigation
of the chemical constituents of plants and their action on the animal
organism, call loudly for a recognition denied them. For the last twenty
years but little has been accomplished in this line of research. Instead of
taking, as it ought, a foremost place, on account of the immediate practi-
1 ieee ea Pe

SECTION OF MATERIA MEDICA. 77

cal importance attached to its beneficial results applicable to mankind,
it has lagged far behind its sister sciences, physiology and pathology.
However, within the last few years it has received a new impetus.
Some of our transatlantic colleagues are devoting themselves assidu-
ously to the study of drugs and their actions. The discovery of the
anesthetic properties of cocainum chloridum is a more recent example
of their success. In connection with this department it is of the highest
importance that such researches should be carried on. The medical
profession of this country would watch our operations with great ap-
proval and profound interest, and the raison d@’étre of this section of the
United States National Museum would be proportionally increased. I
would therefore respectfully and earnestly urge the necessity of provid-
ing the means for investigating this valuable stock of material now
contained in the collection.
Mt

Me

I (B).—REPORT ON SECTION OF TEXTILE INDUSTRIES IN THE
U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884.

By Romyn Hircucock, Acting Curator.

The collection of textile fibers and fabrics was placed under my charge
in November, 1883, at which time there was a large accumulation of ma-
terial in the Museum pertaining to this department, which was stowed
away in drawers and boxes. Much of this material was of value, some
of it worthless, and it required no little labor to classify and arrange it
for display. When this work was.begun there was scarcely a single
case of textiles on exhibition properly arrranged and labelled. There
are now not less than thirty sliding-screen cases completely filled with
specimens, each one of which is labelled either with a permanent printed,
or a temporary written, label. By far the greater number of these have
been mounted during the year 1884. In the beginning of work in this
department many difficulties were encountered. It was necessary, first
of all, to devise a system of classification for fibers and fabrics which
would be comprehensive. As regards vegetable fibers, various systems
were considered, in the hope that a scientific classification might be
found which would serve well for industrial purposes ; but a brief study
of the subject clearly showed the impracticability of such a scheme:
Turning then to purely artificial systems, it is not necessary to refer to
the merits and demerits of those which have been proposed from time
to time, but merely to say that the system which has seemed best for
museum purposes is based upon the position of the fibers in the plants.
The plan of classification adopted for textile fibers is as follows:

Type.
RIMCEANPL EES se hc koe Se cl poic ccs phn ae ecee ear e eae. Asbestos.
Vegetable fibers:
Grasses, stems, barks, &c., used in the natural condition...-... Esparto.
Stem, leaf, and root fibers:
SRR UUUORR Sale a Soc cuec oan use ade e een dom ome eee Flax.
HMOMACEOUS MINORS soos cn: sas cas cmenen sees alae meatode Geant as = New Zealand flax.
OBOUOLUISORS 2a tote els ca’ vew ues se eee ale Soak mabe ane aba s ok Cotton.
Animal fibers.:
Mitre Sb Ey ts me ale foun soo Sid ohin's le Serle towel we cle cer aces 8 awk Sheep’s wool.
OT ee Sega Be ota ere bee Re Re Cow’s hair.
REM he sos waa Kee SECC errerrer rrr rere ere rer rT eee Teer Silk

79
80 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884.

Far greater difficulty has been found in classifying textile fabrics,
owing to the technical knowledge of the methods of manufacture re-
quired to do this work in a satisfactory manner. No system has yet
_ been perfected, although a general plan has been under consideration
for some time, and it will doubtless be possible to outline a satisfactory
scheme in the course of another year. Meanwhile specimens are being
mounted, described, and arranged in the cases according to a provisional
classification, based primarily upon their composition (whether of cotton,
flax, wool, silk, &c.), and secondly upon the method of weaving.

Accessions of the year.—The following are the most important among
the additions to the collections for the year 1884:

Twenty-two specimens of jute, grown in Mississippi from seed ob-
tained in India, showing various qualities of the fiber in different stages
of preparation. From Hon. W. W. Stone, Stoneville, Miss., president
Delta Jute and Fiber Company.

Six specimens, showing the process of manufacturing gunny cloth
from Calcutta jute butts. From Mr. Appleton Sturgis, New York.

A large collection of cordage made of jute, and a fine specimen of
jute fiber, from the Schlichter Jute Cordage Company, Philadelphia, Pa.

Forty specimens of textile fibers and fabrics of various kinds from
different countries, all well named and identified. From the Royal
Botanical Gardens, Kew,. England.

A collection of machine-made laces of various kinds, Face mits, nubias,
&ec. From A. G. Jennings & Sons, New York.

A large number of textile fibers and fabrics, from Guatemala and San
Salvador, received from the Boston Foreign Exposition, of 1883.

Thirteen specimens of textile fibers from Jamaica, collected by Mr. V.
P. Parkhurst, who was engaged as collector on the occasion of a visit to
the West Indies.

Twenty-nine specimens of English laces, made in Nottingham and
Devonshire, England, a list of which will be found in No. 24 of the
“Proceedings” of the Museum. From Mr. A. Robertson, with Messrs.
Hitchcock, Williams & Co., London.

Twenty-two small samples of English silk fabrics, manufactured in
Manehester and Bradford, and one hundred similar samples of cotton
and worsted fabrics, etc. Also from Mr. A. Robertson.

A fine specimen of Jacquard weaving in silk. From Prof. T. C.
Archer, director of the Edinburgh Museum.

Nine specimens illustrating the manufacture of hand-made ingrain
and rag carpets. From Mr. O. Herring, Maryland Mills, Baltimore,
Md.

Thirty-seven specimens of rope and twine made of American, Russian,
and Italian hemp and sisal. From J. T. Bailey & Co., Philadelphia.

A series of fifteen specimens of flax and flax twines manufactured at
Schagticoke, N. Y., from flax grown in New York State, From Mr. EB,
W, Hartshorn, president Cable Flax Mills.
Fl Na) i ee

SECTION OF TEXTILE INDUSTRIES, 81

Twelve specimens of rough and hackled flax, French, Irish, Dutch,
and Canadian. From the Barbour Flax Spinning Company, Paterson,
N. J.

A series of thirty-seven specimens illustrating the manufacture of raw
silk fabries in the United States. This collection begins with the raw silk
as imported from Italy, Japan, and China, and shows the various stages
in the preparation of the silk forthe loom. The series is an interesting
one because the successive steps in the manufacture are so well shown.
Then follow specimens of the finished goods, plain or brocaded, in con-
siderable variety. Received from John N. Stearns & Co., of New York.

Fifteen specimens of raw silks, as imported from Lombardy, Ce-
vennes, Piedmont, Japan, and China, carefully selected as_ typical
samples, and presented by C. Adolphe Low & Co., of New York.

Seven specimens of tapestry Brussels carpets. From the Roxbury
Carpet Company, Boston, Mass.

Specimens of “‘ Napier matting” and “ hemp carpetings” made of jute.
From the Dolphin Manufacturing Company, New York.

Specimens of Yucca brevifolia and various kinds of paper made there-
from. From R. E. C. Stearns, Washington, D. C.

Fifteen specimens of fibers, mostly of animal origin. From the cus-
tom-house, Boston, Mass.

A set of specimens of knit worsted fabrics, astrachan, Jersey cloth,
stockinette cloth, &c., manufactured in Philadelphia. From John E.
Hanifen & Co., Philadelphia, Pa.

A very valuable collection of 117 specimens, illustrating the manu-
facture of worsted yarns used in the goods made by the Arlington Mills,
and specimens of fine cotton yarns made at the same mills. This is a
collection worthy of more than a passing notice. It was prepared with
great care and judgment by the superintendent of the mills, Mr. W. D.
Hartshorne, for the purpose of showing the successive stages in the
manufacture of yarns from wools of different grades. Beginning with
a certain grade of wool the process is followed from the greasy wool
through the preparers, combs, gill-boxes, etc., and made into tops. The
manufacture of colored top from the same grade of wool is likewise
fully illustrated by samples of fine Australian wool in successive stages
from greasy wool through the scourer, carder, back-washing, gill-boxes,
comb, and finishing gill-boxes. Then specimens of tops of various
grades are shown, and the processes of reducing top to yarn are illus-
trated by three distinct series of specimens representing three different
grades of wool. Then follow numerous samples of yarns.

An equally complete and more comprehensive series of specimens
illustrating the manufacture of worsted and cotton yarns, and also of
the finished fabrics and the process of calico printing has been received
from the Pacific Mills, and will soon be mounted for exhibition in the
Museum. This collection likewise begins with the wool in the grease.
Six varieties and mixtures of wool are represented by large samples,

5. Mis, 33, pt. 2 6

82 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884.

and these are each carried through the successive stages of manufact-
ure, washing, carding, combing, etc., to the finished yarn.

The manufacture of cotton yarn is likewise illustrated, two grades
being carried through the various ‘operations in parallel series, the
specimens being carefully chosen to represent the processes as com-
pletely as possible.

Calico printing is illustrated by specimens of cloth before and after
bleaching, after printing, with color set, and finished. There is also a
copper print-roller, taken from the machine, and the process is still
more fully illustrated by photographs taken at the mills by the acting
curator on the occasion of his visit during the summer.

There is also a fine set of samples of cotton goods, worsteds, and de-
laines, representing the large variety of fabrics manufactured by the
Pacific Mills.

The manufacture of woolen goods, fancy cassimeres, etc., is repre-

sented by two collections, the first from the Harris Woolen Company,

of Woonsocket, R. [., which begins with the raw wool, and a few sam-
ples showing the material in the course of preparation and spinning
into yarn. Then follow specimens of worsted fabrics and wool-mixed
dress goods. Another collection from the Lippitt Woolen Company,
also of Woonsocket, embraces a variety of fancy cassimeres. Both
these collections will soon be on exhibition in the Museum.

A series of sixteen specimens of fabrics of English manufacture, in-
cluding such as seal-cloth and astrachan, was presented by Mr. H.
Herrman, of the firm of Herrman, Sternbach & Company, of New

~York. These specimens, valuable in themselves, are worthy of especial
mention because of the information concerning the methods of manu-
facture which accompanied them.

The manufacture of ginghams is represented by a good collection
from the Whittenton Manufacturing Company, Taunton, Mass., em-
bracing a considerable variety of cotton fabrics, plaids, cotton cassi-
meres and tweeds, fancy shirtings, tickings, ete.

An interesting collection, illustrating the manufacture of hair-cloth
from horse-hair has been received from the Pawtucket Hair-cloth Com-
pany. This shows the rough hair as it is received in bales from South
America and Siberia, the hackled hair, curled hair, hair prepared for
the loom, and samples of the woven cloth.

A valuable set of specimens has been received from the Bigelow Car-
pet Company, illustrating the manufacture of Brussels and Wilton ear-
pets. Beginning with the carpet-wools employed, the manufacture of
yarns is first illustrated by specimens of washed wool, slivers, noils,
roping, and dyed yarns. Then follow specimens of carpets and borders,
in Brussels and veivet carpets.

The foregoing collection is supplemented by some specimens of car-
pets of the same kind from the Lowell Manufacturing Company, which
includes also ingrain carpets of the same manufacture.

Sr
i SECTION OF TEXTILE INDUSTRIES. 83

The Roxbury Carpet Company has presented some fine specimens of
tapestry Brussels carpets, thus making the collection to illustrate car-
pet manufacture quite comprehensive.

A perfect working model of the original cotton-gin invented by Eli
Whitney has been received from his son, Eli Whitney, of New Haven,
and is on exhibition in the Museum.

The routine work of the year.—The work of the acting curator con-
sists in obtaining and selecting material for exhibition, classifying and
arranging it for the cases, collecting information about textile industries
generally, and applying such information to the preparation of labels
for the spectmens. During the year work of this kind has been greatly
facilitated by the means afforded for visiting mills in the East as col-
lector for the New Orleans Exposition. Through the courtesy of treas-
urers and superintendents of several of the largest mills the writer
was enabled to spend much time in studying the processes of spinning
and weaving, with great advantage to the work in the Museum. At
the same time photographs were taken of machinery in use, which are
of great value in illustrating the processes as they are described on the
labels in the Museum.

For special courtesies of this nature the Museum is indebted to Mr.
H. Saltonstall, treasurer of the Pacific Mills, Mr. W. Whitman, treas-
urer of the Arlington Mills, Mr. C. Fairbanks, treasurer of the Bigelow
Carpet Company, and to various other firms and individuals whose
mills were visited with interest and benefit.

An important part of the curator’s duty is to make microscopical
investigations of fibers of all kinds, with reference to their value for
various purposes, and particularly as to their adaptability to textile
purposes. It has been impossible to conduct any systematic work of
this kind during the past year, owing to the want of time, and the
microscope has only been used occasionally for the purpose of identify-
ing specimens. It will be necessary, however, to employ the micro-
scope more frequently in future, for the work will require it.

But little attention has been given to any but the exhibition series
of specimens during this year. It is doubtful if a comprehensive study
series would be of value in the Museum. A set of fibers of all kinds
and from different localities, that can be always accessible for examina-
tion, is, however, very desirable, if not absolutely necessary, and it is
intended to prepare such a series without delay.

The microscopical appearance of the more important textile fibers
will be shown by means of photographs from the microscope in con-
nection with the fibers themselves as soon as time permits. To this
end, some preparations were mounted for microscopical examination
by Mr. Harry English, during his connection with the Museum, and it
is expected they will yield fine photographs.

Researches.—No original investigations have been conducted in this
department, the routine work demanding all the time to the exclusion
84 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884.

of other interests. A list of the vegetable fibers in the collection was
published in No. 24 of the ‘* Proceedings” of the Museum, but since this
was prepared the collection has largely increased.

A complete list of vegetable textile fibers, with common, local, and
botanical names, alphabetically arranged, is in course of preparation,
but it will not be published for a year or more. This list will give also
the classification of the fibers according to the system adopted in the
Museum.

Present state of collection——During the year 1883 our Smithsonian
collection specimens have been catalogued. All of these are not, how-
ever, desirable for exhibition purposes. There are now on exhibition,
approximately, 2,000 specimens.

The number of duplicates and of specimens in the study series cannot
be satisfactorily estimated at this time.

Recommendations and remarks.—To increase the interest of the collec-
tions, to make them more instructive and intelligible, it seems desirable
to make use of photography to illustrate the textile industries, even to
as great an extent as has been done already in illustrating the fisheries.
What little has been done has enabled the curator to judge as to the
value and practicability of such a scheme, and since it does not involve
the employment of a photographer, but only some additional work on
his own part, it is recommended that every facility should be given to
carry out the scheme in a satisfactory manner. The plan advised, tak-
ing the subject of cotton for example, is to begin with the cotton in the
field and follow it through its entire commercial history by photographic
representations of the picking, ginning, baling, shipping, and handling
until it reaches the mills. There it is also followed through the various
machines, until it is finally photographed in the piles of woven fabrics
in the warehouse ready for market.

One great want which is severely felt in this department is that of
books of reference regarding textiles.
I fe),—REPORT ON THE SECTION OF NAVAL ARCHITECTURE OF
THE U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM FOR 1884,

By JoserH W. Couns, Honorary Curator.

REVIEW OF IMPORTANT ADDITIONS DURING THE YEAR.

The number of accessions during the year, both of models, full-sized
boats, and boat and vessel equipments, has been large, and. generally
of an important and interesting ‘character. A considerable portion of
these accessions was collected for exhibition at the International
Fisheries Exhibition held in London in 1883, where also many very in-
teresting and valuable objects were obtained, some by exchange with
other countries, while others were presented to the Museum. Although
these collections of American craft and their equipmént were made in
1882 and 1883, and the exchanges and donations received from the Lon-
don Exhibition were made prior to the close of the past year, the various
objects did not reach this country until after the close of the exposition,
and become available to the Museum until after the beginning of 1884.
We therefore feel justified, while preparing this, the first annual report
of this department, in considering all the material gathered in 1882,
18835, and 1884 as coming under the head of the accessions for the pres-
ent year. Elsewhere the general character of the material gathered,
and its relation to the present condition of the collection, will be more
fully discussed. Here it is proposed to give only a review of the more
important additions to the collection, with such notes as may be deemed
desirable to show from what sources they were obtained, as well as to
give an idea of their value and importance.

There have been-collected in the period above named, 1882 to 1884,
inclusive, 123 models and full-sized specimens of vessels and boats of
North America, chiefly, however, such as are used in the United States;
30 models and full-sized specimens of foreign fishing boats; 12 large
India-ink and. crayon sketches (30 by 40 inches) of American fishing
boats; 92 photographs of fishing craft of the United States: 4 water-
color sketches of vessels of the fifteenth, sixteenth, and seventeenth
centuries; 8 photographic negatives of merchant vessels of the United
States in the period between 1805 and 1845; 1 water-color sketch of a
merchant bark of 1844; 1 photographic negative of a naval battle, war

86
86 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884.

of 181215; 5 oil paintings of modern vessels; 1 sketch and 2 prints of
vessels; 1 model of a life-car; and 165 accessions of boat-building mate-
rial and boat fittings. Many of these last accessions, though mentioned
under a single number, contain a dozen or more objects which make up
a complete set.

The following objects may be alluded to as being of the greatest im-
portance among the accessions to this department:

(1) A collection of 4 rigged models, a fishing ketch, chebacco boat,
pinkie, and square stern Marblehead banker, showing the early forms
of vessels used in the fisheries of this country from its settlement up to,
and including, the first quarter of the present century. These are espe-
cially interesting, not only as an illustration of certain degrees of evolu-
tion in the form of fishing vessels, but also to show the peculiarities of
the schooner, rigged in its more primitive form, after it was first invented
at Gloucester, Mass.

. (2) A series of builders’ modeler illustrating the changes in the form
of fishing vessels, from 1835 down to the extreme clipper of the present
day. This collection is divided into three groups: one illustrating the
development of the cod-fishing schooner, or Grand Banker, which is
generally somewhat fuller than other fishing vessels; a second group
showing the changes made in the “‘ medium-sharp ” type, and the other
group is composed of models which were the extreme sharp vessels of
the several periods when they were built.

(3) A sectional model of the schooner “ Gertie Evelyn,” of Gloucester,
Mass., which illustrates very fully the interior arrangements of a modern
fishing schooner. In my opinion no object in the collection under my
charge is more instructive than this.*

(4) A rigged model of a three-masted cod-fishing schooner, such as
are now used from some of the New England ports, and which are the
largest vessels employed in the food fisheries on the Atlantic coast.

(5) A builder’s model, mounted in medallion, of an ideal fishing schooner,
made deeper and somewhat narrower than the average New England
schooner, and designed to secure greater safety in rough weather, par-
ticularly when employed in the winter fisheries. This model is of especial
interest at the present time, since it is believed by competent authority
that a very considerable percentage of the losses of life and property —
which so frequently occur in the fishing fleets of New England, might
be obviated by the employment of vessels of greater depth than those
now inuse. A fruitful source of disaster is doubtless the liability of the
present type of schooner to capsize or to be tripped by a heavy sea, and
its inability to right again, owing to the lack of a low center of gravity,
which only depth can give, and an unusual length and weight of spars.t

* Reference is made to the descriptive label of this model, appended to this report,
which will give a better idea of its value.
t See descriptive label which is appended, for detail of this didnt:
SECTION OF NAVAL ARCHITECTURE. 87

(6) A series of 22 models of fishing boats, canoes, dugouts, &e., used
in the United States, both by aboriginal and white fishermen. This
collection has been drawn from various sources, but more particularly
from Alaska, and from the Atlantie coast, between Eastern Maine and
Washington, D.C. It is of especial interest, as, combined with other
material of a similar nature previously acquired by the Museum, it
makes up a collection representing nearly all of the more important
types of the smaller fishing craft used in the United States and its Ter-
ritories. The greater part of this collection has been purchased, though
in this as with other material, the Museum has been the recipient of
numerous donations.

(7) A collection of 4 full-sized fishing boats and 10 models of fishing
craft of the East Indies has been presented to the Museum by Sur-
geon-General Francis Day, F. L. 8., late inspector of Her Majesty’s
fisheries in India, and commissioner from India to the International
Fisheries Exhibition at London, 1883. This is an exceedingly interest-
ing collection, and without question it may be safely asserted that it
forms one of the most valuable accessions received by this department
of the Museum during the current year. Almost every specimen of
either full-sized boats or models shows some interesting peculiarity,
which, if space and time permitted, would merit a longer notice than we
are able to give it here. <A brief mention of them must suffice. Perhaps
the most interesting of the various forms is that of a full-sized dugout
used at Patna, in Bengal, where it is locally known as the “etka.” This_
boat is made from the stem of the semul tree (Bombax malabaricum), and
is very primitive in its construction, being, in fact, simply a large, elon-
gated, trough-shaped canoe, unlike any other in the large collection of
dugouts in the Museum.

Another very unique type of fishing boat, and perhaps one of the most
peculiar dugout canoes used by man, comes from Jessor, in Bengal,
where it is locally known as a “donga.” This is constructed from the
stem of the tar palm tree (Borassus flabelliformis), the hard outer layer
of which, after the soft portion is scooped out, is very serviceable for
this purpose. It has much the appearance of an exaggerated spoon,
with a deep bowl and a large handle, the latter concaved on one side
and convexed on the other, its end stopped or rendered water-tight by
a partition placed crosswise. The shape of the boat is due to the pecu-
liar growth of the stem of the tar palm, which swells out into a rounded
bulb-like form at one end. When it is said that the length of this ecu-
rious boat is less than 13 feet, and that it is only 30 inches wide in its
broadest part and does not average more than a foot in width for about
two-thirds of its length, one will be fully able not only to appreciate the
manner in whick man adapts means to ends to provide himself with
some sort of craft for carrying on his operations, but will also be able
to understand that a considerable degree of skill is required to navigate
a boat of this kind,
88 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884.

A full-sized catamaran (13 feet long and 3 feet wide), such as is used
for fishing in the Presidency of Madras, is another very interesting ad-
dition to the collection of primitive types of water craft. Rudely con-
structed of logs, and apparently as illy adapted as anything well can be
for encountering rough water, craft of this kind are nevertheless said to
be very serviceable for crossing a heavy surf, and it is stated that they
will make a landing in breakers which would prove the destruction of
any ordinary boat that should dare to make a similar attempt. It is
said that these rafts rise lightly over an ordinary surf, but if caught by
a great breaker are overwhelmed and knocked about. t such times
the natives, who are semi-amphibious in their habits, will leap over-
board, and after their vessel has passed the surf they will clamber on
to her again, and go on as if nothing had happened. |

Among the models of East Indian boats there is a very remarkable
one of a fishing craft used at Chittagong, in the Presidency of Bengal.
This is a long and narrow dugout canoe with scoop-shaped, narrow,
square ends. Its special peculiarity consists in an arrangement for
catching fish automatically. On one side of the boatis a broad bamboo
platform, fixed to the gunwale in such a manner that it projects out
into the water, and to this is attached a string of palm leaves something
in the form of a broom. This strange device, when slightly agitated
by the motion of the boat, has the effect of frightening any fish that
may be near and which immediately jump upon the half submerged
bamboo platform, and thence into the boat, where they fall among the
branches of trees with which the canoe’s bottom is strewn. ‘The fish-
erman sits on the gunwale with one foot in the water and heels the
craft to the proper angle, or gives it the requisite motion for frightening
the fish. To prevent the fish from Jeaping over the other side of the
boat, and thus regaining their liberty, a net is fixed obliquely or ver-
tically along the opposite gunwale, and serves as an effectual barrier to
their escape.

The most interesting model, perhaps, which has been received in this

collection of Indian water craft, is that of the Bombay fishing boat .

known as the ‘“‘machva” in the region where it is used. No boat in
the world is more distinctive in type than this, and there are, perhaps,
few others which would sooner attract the attention of those who are
familiar with vessels. In the shape of its bottom the ‘‘machva” differs
from all other boats, and the peculiar form of its keel is seemingly at
variance with all of the recognized rules of naval architecture. Thekeel
curves upwards in the center in an arch-like shape, and is deepest at
the bow, where it forms nearly a right angle with the straight raking
stem; it also drops down aft considerably. This boat, which is carvel
built, of teak, has a long, sharp, scoop-shaped bow, resembling in its
form the forward section of an Arab dhow. The deep projecting keel
serves the same purpose as a double center-board for providing the
requisite lateral resistance when the boat is sailing close hauled. The
SECTION OF NAVAL ARCHITECTURE. 89

rig consists of a single short, stout mast, stepped almost amidships,
and having a strong rake forward. Upon this is spread a large settee
sail, which taeks down to the bow.

The “machva” is credited with being the swiftest of Indian sailing
craft, and a claim has been made that boats of this type could beat
English yachts. Dr. McDonald, secretary and curator of the Victoria
and Albert Museum, Bombay, says, “ The fishing boats of the Konkan
are considered to be amongst the swiftest sailing vessels known.” It is
believed by the native fishermen that the sailing qualities of their boats
are materially improved by the shape of the keel. It would appear,
too, that they are correct, strange as it may seem, for Biddle, in his
“Model Yacht Building and Sailing,” tells us that “* some experiments
were tried with this type of vessel a few years back. The arch was
filled up and the sailing qualities of the craft immediately destroyed.”
He also says “ They do not go to windward so well as an English yacht,
but in running and reaching they cannot be surpassed, especially in
smooth water.” Dixon Kemp, however, in “ Yacht and Boat Sailing”
(4th edition, p. 350), expresses the opinion that the stories about such
craft beating boats of English design must be taken with considerable
allowance.

The following interesting account of the ceremonies attending the
launching of a new boat of this class is given by Dr. McDonald:
‘“ When a Koli builds a new boat, or ‘machva,’ he gives a dinner to
his friends and relatives on the occasion of its being first launched.
The fermented juice of the palm tree is freely drunk by the guests in-
vited on such occasions. The women, too, honor new boats with rev-
erence and break cocoanuts upon the boat’s bows, pretty much as cham-
pagne bottles are broke at home on like occasions.”

Other models in this collection of East Indian boats, particularly the
Madras “ masulah” boat, and two of those used at the Maldives and
Aden, are interesting as showing the peculiar method of sewing the
planks together with coir twine, which is a characteristic feature of
many of the fishing craft used by the natives of the East.

(8) We have obtained from the Government of Greece a collection
of the fishing boats of that country, consisting of one full-sized speci-
men and two models. It is interesting to note that two of these boats,
a fishing skiff, and a sloop from the island of Sciathos, resemble craft
used in the United States. For instance, the skiff might be easily taken
for one used by gunners in the Chesapeake and its tributaries, while on
the New England coast sloop boats could perhaps be found which
would not be very much unlike that employed by the Grecian fisher-
men. The most interesting model in this collection is that of a Grecian
boat employed in the net and seine fisheries. It is sharp aft, and finely
proportioned. Its striking peculiarity, however, is a projecting cut-
water or ‘‘ram”, which seams to be the last surviving relic in the
Grecian boats of the “ram’s head,” or cut-water, which adorned the
90 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884.

bows of the ancient triremes, and which on the latter was used for offen-
sive purposes (like the projecting rams on modern men-of-war), for crush-
ing the sides of their antagonists. This boat is propelled wholly with
oars, having eight rowers on a side.

(9) A collection of seven fine models of Chinese cargo boats and fish-
ing craft has been obtained from the Museum of Fish Culture at South
Kensington, London. These models are a valuable acquisition to the
Museum, and combined with others previously acquired make up an
interesting collection representing the craft of the Celestial Empire. It
is possible in this place to make special mention of only two of the
models as being of peculiar interest. One of these, a so-called ‘ out-
rigged” fishing junk, from South Formosa, is a remarkably clumsy
craft, even for a Chinese junk, and judging by descriptions that have
been given, it is probably a fact that this style of vessel has not changed
much in its form or in the method of its construction since the days of
Marco Polo. The other is a bamboo raft, or catamaran, a style of boat
employed in China as elsewhere (in South America and India) not only
for fishing purposes, but to go on and off the coast when the surf is so
heavy as to preclude the possibility of using the ordinary form of boat.

(10) A full-sized dugout cance, such as is used on the Gold Coast of
Africa, has been presented to the Museum by Mr. Maloney, governor
of the Gold Coast colony. As being the only full-sized representative
we have of water craft used by the natives of Africa, this canoe is of
especial interest and value to the collection. It also has an additional
importance from being another interesting accession to the collection
of primitive boats used by man, particularly of those which come under
the head of dugout canoes.

(11) An Irish “ curragh,” exhibited at the London Fisheries Exhibi-
tion, has been presented by the Marquis of Hamilton. This boat, made
of tarred canvas stretched over a light frame-work of willow withes, is
probably the most primitive form of water craft used by civilized man,
and it constitutes an interesting “connecting link,” if we may so call it,
between the boats of a remote age and the higher types of vessels in
use at the present day. Remarkable as it may seem, craft of this kind
are still in common use for fishing purposes on the west coast of Lre-
land, and are perhaps as fine an illustration of the adaptation of means
to ends as can be found even among the varying forms of boats used
by savage tribes; for here the poor fisherman, not able to afford the
expense of building a more durable craft, with the limited means at his
command, makes himself such an one as may answer his purpose.
Though extremely frail in appearance, these craft, from their lightness,
are very buoyant, and it is said of them that they will rise like.a feather
upon waves which would prove troublesome, if not dangerous, to the
ordinary fishing boat.

(12) Two full-sized British “ corracles,” one from the river Boyne in
Ireland, and the other from the river Dee in Scotland, which have been
SECTION OF NAVAL ARCHITECTURE. 91

obtained by exchange, may be reckoned among the valuable addi-
tions to our collection in this department. These are oval-shaped boats
about 55 feet long and two-thirds as wide, the depth being about 18
inches. The Boyne corracle is made of leather, fastened to a basket-
like frame of willow withes, while the Scotch corracle is constructed of
breadths of tarred canvas drawn over a light framework of thin, flat,
wooden strips. Each of these corracles has a single thwart, placed
nearly amidships, upon which the occupant sits to paddle the boat.

(13) Among the interesting novelties received by the Museum during -
the current year might properly be included a model of a Belgian fish-
ing sloop, which was purchased at the International Fisheries Exhibi-
tion at London, and which represents the peculiar style of boats used
for beam-trawling, &e., from certain ports on the coast of Belgium, but
particularly from Heyst and Blankenberghe. This boat, which is de-
signed for landing on a beach, and is, therefore, flat-bottomed, and like
the Dutch bomschuited, very broad and full, differs, in the form of its
hull and its rig, from any other fishing boat used by man at the present
time. This model is rendered doubly interesting by having attached
to it the peculiar forms of fishing apparatus used by the Belgiaa boats,
and also because there are a number of figures of fishermen in it.

(14) The collection has been enriched by an accession of four water-
color sketches of ships of the fifteenth, sixteenth, and seventeenth
centuries, which are of especial interest as being connected with the
early history of America. One of the sketches represents the ships of
Columbus, according to the highest French authority, which by the
closest students of naval architeeture of that period are believed to
be the most accurate and reliable. Another very interesting sketch
is that of the Mayflower under sail, on her passage from England to
America in 1620. This is probably the most accurate sketch of the
Mayflower that has ever been made, since it is derived from a study
of many years of the various peculiarities of the English and Dutch
vessels of that period. A third sketch represents a “carrack” of the
sixteenth century. Hippus, the Tyrian, is credited with having first
devised carracks, which are described as vessels of great size, de-
signed for both trade and war. The same name was given also by the
Portuguese and Spanish to a class of vessels which they sent in the
sixteenth century to the East Indies and Brazil, and which doubtless
visited other parts of America. These vessels were large and full, of
great depth, and were designed for fighting as well as trade. The
fourth sketch is that of a Spanish “ galleon” of the sixteenth century
(1520). In their traffic with America, galleons were much used by the
Spanish as treasure ships during the sixtgenth century. They were
always heavily armed, but it is said that owing to their unwieldiness
they generally fell an easy prey to their assailants.

(15) D. J. Lawlor, naval architect, Chelsea, Mass., has presented the
Museum with a fine collection of 17 models of various styles of vessels,
92 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884.

Among these may be mentioned, as of especial interest, 8 models which
show the evolution of the American pilot-boat from 1845 down to
October, 1884. In no department of naval architecture have our ship-
builders shown more originality than in the construction of pilot-boats,
and perhaps nowhere else, either in this or other countries, has there
been a higher combination of speed and general sea-going qualities than
has been characteristic of the vessels of this class employed on our
Atlantic coast. In this collection, perhaps, more than in any other that
might be gathered, are illustrated the ideas which have influenced the
minds of designers of small, swift, sea-going sailing vessels during the
past forty years. Passing through various changes of greater or less
importance, the writer is of the opinion that, in the model of the pilot-
boat Hesper, of Boston, very high results have beep attained, so far
as a combination of speed, symmetry, and sea-worthiness is concerned.

Another model in the collection obtained from Mr. Lawlor is that of
the steamship Meteor, which has a very interesting history. She was
built by subscription from merchants of Boston, New York, and elsewhere
“for the purpose of offering her to our Government for the pursuit of the
Alabama and other blockade runners, then preying upon our commerce
and carrying stores to the enemy, in defiance of our more heavily armed
ships of war.”* The design for this ship was offered in competition, the
competitors being Henry and William H. Webb, of New York, and D. J.
Lawlor, of Chelsea, Mass. One hundred dollars bonus was offered as a
prize to him whose design was accepted. The model made by Mr. Lawlor,
and which he has presented to the Musemn, is the one which was accepted,
and from this the ship was built at Portsmouth, N. H., and launched on
May 21,1864. ‘She was designed to carry one heavy pivot amidships on
gun deck, or two 10-inch or other guns at the same point, namely, just
before the mainmast; forward of this are four ports (two on each side)
where 8 or 9-inch Dahlgrens would have been mounted had she been
taken by the United States Navy Department, and abreast of the engine
hatch aft there are two ports on each side where she could have mounted
short 32’s or 24-pound howitzers, and on the upper deck are beds for
two 30-pound Parrotts, making one pivot 11 inch, or two 10 inch; four
broadside, 8 or 9 inch; four 32 or 24-pound howitzers, on gun deck;
two light chase guns on upper deck. She has two 624 by 36-inch cylin-
ders; four tubular boilers; propeller of brass, 133 feet diameter and 23
feet pitch. The motive power, boilers, &c., were imported from Scot-
land at a very large cost.” t

‘“The Meteor was a steamer of 1,440 tons register, old measurement,
being about 400 tons larger than the Alabama; and when tested by the

REM HEE e
* Report of the case of the steamship Meteor, Vol. 1. Edited by F. V. Balch, Boston,
1869.
tExtract from letter of R. B. Forbes to Frederick C, Schmidt, esq., New York,
dated Boston, September 13, 1865,
SECTION OF NAVAL ARCHITECTURE. 93

Navy Department made the best time between the trial buoys off Sandy
Hook which had then ever been made by any screw ship, being one or
two miles an hour faster than any of the rebel cruisers; but just when
the Government was about taking her, the fall of Fort Fisher rendered
her no longer necessary for her original purpose, and, after two or three
voyages in the transport and merchant service, she was laid up and
offered for sale in New York in the summer of 1865.

“In the autumn of 1865 Spain made war upon her former colonies,
the states of Chili and Peru, whose independence she had never formally
acknowledged, and it soon became known that the South American
Republic wanted ships.

“There was every reason why the owners of the Meteor should be
ready to sell her to our South American neighbors whenever they could
properly and lawfully do so.”*

Negotiations were carried on with this purpose in view, but when all
ready to sail with her stores and crew on board, “the Meteor was
seized on the 23d of January, 1866, by the United States marshal, at
the instance of Spain,” and for about two years was held in litigation
by the Government of the United States for alleged infringement of
neutrality laws, the final result of the suit, however, being in favor of
the owners of the ship.

Outside of the purpose for which she was originally built the model
of the Meteor is interesting as being a ship of unusual speed for the
period when she was designed. It is related of her that she has made
an average speed of 154 knots an hour, with a disconnected screw, for
a period of 72 consecutive hours.

In the collection received from Mr. Lawlor are two fine models of
steam yachts, which illustrate the advance which has been made in
designing these types of pleasure craft.

(16) In a collection of 5 models of various kinds of sailing and steam
craft, presented to the Museum by Sumner, Swaysey, and Currier, of
Newburyport, Mass., is an interesting model of the screw steam packet .
Decatur, built about 1844, and which may be considered as a fair rep-
resentative type of the earliest fgrms of screw steamers employed in the
United States.

(17) We have received from John N. Cushing, of Newburyport, Mass.,
a collection of 8 models of merchant vessels (brigs, barks, and ships).
Of these two are of especial interest. One of them is the model of the
brig Palos, of Newburyport, built in 1832. From this model, which
is one of the best examples extant of the old-style “ kettle-bottom,” a
fleet of 12 or 14 brigs were built, these being employed chiefly in the
Kuropean trade, ‘They were extremely full, deep, and narrow, with a
great deal of “tumble home” to their top sides. This peculiar shape
was due chiefly to the tonnage laws then in vogue, by which one-half
of the length of the main beam was taken from the uaa of the vessel.

is “Report of ie case ‘of en stei amship Matean.
94 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884.

It will consequently be seen that a vessel which was of extraordinary
depth and very narrow on deck would have an exceedingly great car-
rying capacity in proportion to her tonnage. It was, therefore, the
custom of some merchants to build their vessels of this type for the
foreign trade in order to escape as much as possible the payment of
onerous tonnage dues in the various ports which they visited. As an
instance of the great carrying capacity of the brigs built from this
model, the story is told that one of them, the Keying, of a little less
than 300 tons burden, landed 700 tons of coal in Jamaica, which she
had brought from Cardiff. A second model of special interest in the
collection received from Mr. Cushing is that of a Baltimore clipper
_ brig of 1845. This model, which was designed for a vessel of about 255
tons, is in an excellent state of preservation, and gives us a very good
idea of the extreme clipper vessels of the period when it was con-
structed. One other model, that of the brig Dove, built in 1817, is also
worthy of mention. This is the earliest form of a square-rigged vessel
of which we have a builder’s model.

(18) A beautiful builder’s model of the ship Oregon, of Bath, Me.,
has been presented to the Museum by Mr. William Rogers, of Bath.
This medel is an excellent representative of the type of “half clipper”
ships of the present day, which for the general purpose of trade now
existing have been found the most useful. As the result of many
years’ experience, the ship-builders of to-day have succeeded in com-
bining in a very high degree excellent sailing qualities with great
capacity. Therefore a vessel is obtained which may make rapid pas-
sages and carry a cargo sufficiently large to pay her owners a good
freight. This ship may be taken as a fair illustration of the highest
type of the cotton carriers of the present day, in which trade, we are
informed, she has been employed to a greater or less extent.

(19) Mr. William P. Pattee has presented to the Museum four rather
interesting models of old style merchant vessels, and, together with
Mr. F. W. Weeks, has given us a fine builder’s model of the ship Glas-
gow, built at Bath, Me., in 1836, and employed in the cotton trade
between New Orleans and Liverpoo)]. This model is mounted on a
board, with head, keel, rudder, &c., attached, and is painted in the
same manner as the ship which was built from it. It is especially val-
uable as representing the finest type of cotton carrier of the period
between 1830 and 1840.

(20) Five models of modern merchant vessels, four of which are three-
masted schooners, have been given to the Museum by C. P. Carter &
Co., Belfast, Me. This collection is chiefly interesting from showing
different forms of three-masted schooners employed in various trades.
Two of these, the Meyer and Muller, and the Nellie 8. Picking, represent
the wide, light-draught type of vessel employed in the coasting trade
of the South Atlantic and Gulf ports, where the harbors are generally
SECTION OF NAVAL ARCHITECTURE. 95

shallow, while other models illustrate the characteristics of the deeper
sea-going schooners engaged in the general ocean traffic.

_ (21) No more interesting addition has been made to this collection
than that of eight photographic negatives of paintings of merchant ves-
sels of the early part of this century, from 1805 to 1845. Through the
courtesy of several public-spirited citizens of Newburyport, Mass., who
are the owners of the paintings, I was permitted to copy them. Ina
succeeding paragraph these will be mentioned in greater detail.

(22) Among the acquisitions of boat and vessel equipments the fol-
lowing seem deserving of special mention: (1) two nickel-plated models
of steam windlasses, which have been presented by the American
Ship Windlass Company, of Providence, R. I. These models repre-
sent the highest results that have been attained in mechanical contriv-
ances for weighing ships’ anchors, warping, &c.; (2) a coil (100 fathoms)
of 84-inch manila cable, such as is used by the New England fishing
vessels for riding at anchor upon the outer banks. It is an interesting
fact that manila has of late years entirely superseded hemp for this
purpose, having been found more pliable, and in many respects prefer-
able to hemp for cables; (3) a full gang of standing rigging for a fish-
ing schooner, one-half full size, fitted in all its details, has been given
to the Museum by Mr. James M. Simms, of Gloucester, Mass. Proba-
bly no fishing vessels in the world have so much care expended on the
fitting of the rigging as do those of New England, and in this respect
they will bear favorable comparison with yachts; (4) Nathan Richard-
son, of Gloucester, Mass., has given a full-sized sample of ‘“ Richard-
son’s Challenge Steerer.” This steerer, which is one of the many forms
of patent steering wheels now in use on American fishing vessels, is
one of the latest devices, and is an interesting representative type of
the wheels used on the schooners of the Atlantic coast; (5) a full-sized
sample of ‘Collins’ Patent Fog Alarm” has been added to the collec-
tion. This fog alarm was originally devised for use on fishing vessels,
and is believed to be more powerful than any mechanical contrivance
worked by hand now in general use. It derives its chief importance
from the fact that there is probably nothing more needed by American
fishermen than a powerful and efficient fog-horn. Obliged to lie at
anchor on the fishing banks in the direct track of commerce, especially
swift steamers, and where dense fogs prevail nearly all the time in
spring and summer, they are in constant danger of being run down
and sunk—a danger that can only be averted by having a powerful
horn that may be operated by hand. The trawl-line fisheries, too, in-
volve the fishermen in much personal risk that can be obviated only by
the use of a horn of more than ordinary power. During the prevalence
of the thickest fogs the fishermen must put off from their vessels to
set and haul their trawl-lines, generally going distances varying from
one and one-half to three miles. The style of horns commonly in use
cannot, of course, be heard more than a small portion of that distance
96 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884.

except when there is little or no wind. Therefore, in localities where
the currents are uncertain as to their course and variable in strength,
where the winds are liable to change suddenly, and where fogs are so
dense and so long continued, it is not surprising that many fishermen
go astray in their boats and are exposed to untold suffering, perhaps
death, owing to the fact that they are unable to hear the fog-signals
made on board of the schooner they have left, and which they vainly
strive to find. The local papers in the fishing towns frequently record
the loss of men in this manner, and the escape of others from death,
simply by a hair’s breadth, after enduring the most unheard-of suffering
from exposure, hunger, and thirst. Various devices have been resorted
to to remedy this evil, such as, for instance, carrying cannon to fire in
foggy weather; but heretofore these means have failed to prevent the
frequent recurrence of disaster. The chief objection to cannon is, that
their discharge involves a certain amount of danger as well as expense;
therefore, they are not usually fired until it is deemed absolutely neces-
sary—that is, often not unless it is thought a dory has gone astray, and
then it is frequently ineffective, because the lost men have got too far
from the vessel to hear the sound. The sound of the cannon, moreover,
is so short that its direction, even if the report is heard, is very diffi-
cult to determine. What, therefore, is needed is an implement that
can give out aynearly continuous heavy blast, or a succession of short,
heavy blasts, powerful enough to be heard at a considerable distance,
and repeated at such intervals that no difficulty may be experienced in
determining its location; (6) a very large collection of boat and vessel
fittings, sail-maker’s tools and apparatus, has been given to the Mu-
seum by Messrs. Wilcox, Crittenden & Co., Middletown, Conn. This,
combined with donations previously received from the same house,
makes up an extremely interesting and comprehensive collection of
boat fittings, sail-maker’s gear, material for building boats, &c., proba-
bly the most complete and valuable collection of its kird that is pos-
sessed by any museum in the world.

WORK IN ARRANGING AND CLASSIFYING THE COLLECTION.

There has not been, as yet, any proper arrangement or systematic
classification of the material in this department. The large case and
screen, which were essential for the proper display of the models, were
not completed until the spring of 1883 was well advanced, and, in con-
sequence of my time being employed very much with other matters, all
that it has been possible to do was to make a tentative installment of
the various objects in the collection which it was the most imperative
should be placed where they might be protected from injury. It has,
however, been found necessary to put into temporary storage nearly all
of the collection of vessel and boat fittings. |

A large portion of the full-size specimens and models of vessels
and boats in the collection was either exhibited by the Museum at the
SECTION OF NAVAL ARCHITECTURE. 97

International Fisheries Exhibition at London, 1883, or obtained at
that exhibition, as has already been mentioned, by exchange. Much
of this material, being of a very fragile nature—particularly the rigged
models—notwithstanding the great care that was exercised in packing
it, was, when unpacked in the spring, found to be more or less out of
repair. Lacking competent assistance, I was compelled to make the
repairs with my own hands, in almost every instance, and it was only
by a special effort—working late at nights for upwards of three weeks—
that it was possible to make even a preliminary installment of the vari-
ous objects now exhibited. To get the material into the cases, and else-
elsewhere, so that it might be protected from injury, demanded, of
course, my first attention, while the matter of classification, cataloguing,
and the preparation of descriptive labels, could be attended to at a
later date, whenever an opportunity might be afforded.

I will state here that nearly all of the material sent to London was
properly catalogued and descriptive labels of most of the objects were
prepared and printed. After the installation of these models in the
Museum, allusion to which has already been made, I attempted to com-
plete the entering of the various objects in my department, and also made
an effort to prepare a full set of descriptive labels. Could [have had any
assistance in this work, very commendable progress might have been
made, and many highly valuable objects would have been so fully re-
corded and described as to preserve their identification, which alone can
render them of any worth or importance to the Museum. But being al-
most wholly without assistance of any kind; obliged to continue making
repairs on the models even after the first installation, and having many
other matters on hand which engrossed the greater part of my time, I
succeeded in doing only a very small part of the work of cataloguing
and writing labels before I was called away to attend to duties that, at
the time, imperatively demanded my attention; one of which was the
collection of material to represent the development of naval architecture
in the American merchant marine. <A part of this collection has been
sent to the World’s Exposition at New Orleans, but will ultimately be
installed in the National Museum.

RESEARCHES PROSECUTED UPON MATERIAL BELONGING TO THE DE-
PARTMENT.

For the reasons mentioned in the preceding paragraph, it has been
impossible to prosecute any research of importance on the material
in this department. In the introduction of Section I, ‘‘ Catalogue
of the Collection Illustrating the Fishing Vessels and Boats,” &c., ex-
hibited. by the United States at the International Fisheries Exhibition,
London, 1883, Ihave discussed in a general way the history and de-
velopment of the American fishing vessels, and have spoken at length
of the introduction and use of steamers in certain fisheries of this coun-
try. Brief mention has been made of certain types of fishing boats
and the general collection of apparatus accessory to rigging fishing

S. Mis. 33, pt. 2——7
98 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884.

vessels, &c. This catalogue contains, in addition to the notes already
alluded to, concise descriptions of much of the material in this depart-
ment which more particularly relates to the fisheries of the United
States.

Under the title of “‘ American commerce” the Newburyport Herald,
of November 7, 1884, published an article upon the collection of models,
&ec., in the Museum, and made special mention of builders’ models, pict-
ures, &¢., which had been obtained at Newburyport, Mass

PRESENT STATE OF COLLECTION.

The collection in this department probably contains the largest
amount of material illustrative of the fishing craft of this and other
countries, and the various accessories for rigging such vessels, to be
found in any museum in the world. In this direction, as well as in that
of the more primitive types of water craft in use in various parts of
the globe, the National Museum may fairly claim to be in an excellent
condition. There is not, however, so great an amount of material repre-
senting the merchant marine and naval vessels, of even our own coun-
try, aS might be desired.

So far as the models of boats and ships are concerned, nearly all of
them have been placed on exhibition, but with the materials for the
equipment of vessels, &c., the case is far different, as has already been
indicated. With few exceptions, owing to lack of time and other causes,
it has been found necessary to put these, temporarily, in storage. As
soon, however, as it is practicable, this collection will be properly clas-
sified, arranged, and displayed in the Museum.

STATISTICS.

Owing to causes which have already been alluded to, I find it impos-
sible to give anything more than an approximation of the statistics of
this department, with the exception of the material now exhibited.
There are now on exhibition (including a whale-boat at the New Orleans
Exposition) 28 full-sized boats, canoes, corracles, &c.; 54 builders’ mod-
els, which, with 32 now at New Orleans, make up a total of 86; 305
other models of vessels, boats, canoes, &c., are displayed in the Mu-
seum, and 8 models of this description are now at New Orleans, making
313 in all; 4 water-color sketches of ships of the fifteenth, sixteenth,
and seventeenth centuries; 5 oil paintings of modern types of fishing
vessels; 1 photograph of an English North Sea beam trawler; sketch
of a full-rigged brig; 2 prints of naval vessels; 19 sketches and photo-
graphs of fishing vessels, &c.; and 88 specimens of vessel fittings and
apparatus.

There are held in storage, or what might be, perhaps, called the re-
serve series, about 25 models and some 350 specimens of boat and vessel
fittings.

As to the future development of this department there is much to
be hoped for. Witb the space now at command it would not perhaps
SECTION OF NAVAL ARCHITECTURE 99

be possible, even if it were desirable, to display so comprehensive a
collection of rigged models of merchant craft and men-of-war as we
now have of the fishing vessels of this and other countries, but it is
seemingly in the highest degree desirable that there should be procured,
when the opportunity is afforded, a number of models representing the
more important types, at least of merchant vessels. One thing should
be done, or I might say should be the aim of this department, and that
is to get together material which, added to the collection already gath-
ered, may fully and fairly represent the development of naval archi-
tecture in this country, from the discovery of America up to the pres-
ent time. The fishing and commercial marine, as well as the Navy,
have played a most important part in the history of the United States.
It seems eminently fitting, therefore, that in a National Museum, estab-
lished in the capital of the country, a collection should be gathered
which may form a comprehensive illustration of the progress of ideas
and enterprise in the various branches of maritime affairs in which
our people have engaged. While it may not be practicable or even
desirable to do this by gathering together a large collection of rigged
models, it is undoubtedly a fact that the plan I have so briefly alluded
to might be carried out to a great extent by the use of pictures dis-
played on flat screens, and from a study of which one could obtain a
very fair idea of the many types of craft, as well almost as from seeing
the models, and there would be this additional advantage, that exhibits
of this kind could be so displayed as to occupy the smallest possible
space. It is my opinion that there can be very much done by the use
of builders’ models to show the development of naval architecture.
These can be mounted at small expense and painted in the style of the
vessel they represent, while by attaching a small illustration of the ship
to the descriptive label, showing the rig and general appearance of the
vessel under sail or steam, one could gain not only an idea of the shape
of the vessel, her lines, &c., but would have impressed upon his mind
her general appearance under sail. A great deal, perhaps, may be done,
with the aid of the Navy Department, by getting together and properly
mounting some of the many builders’ models of war ships, which are now
little better than old lumber in the cock-lofts of the navy-yard buildings.
It is therefore desirable, whenever it can be done, that pictures of vari-
ous rigs and styles of water craft should be obtained to add to those
which we now have. The importance of getting together such a collec-
tion has already been referred to, so far as it relates to its being a record
of the past history of commerce in this country.

By bringing together a mass of material of this character we are able
to compare one type with another, and it may serve as an important
school for the historian as well as for the naval architect. The latter
may derive useful and valuable knowledge and suggestions from a
study of foreign vessels, and by an intelligent combination of the best
qualities of the craft of other countries with those of our own he
100 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884.

may be able to devise the very highest types that it is possible to con-
struct. Already something of this kind has been accomplished, the
result being a modification of the form of the fishing vessels. Within
the present year fishing schooners have been built in New England
much deeper than any that have previously been in common use, and
judging from the results already attained, they will be much safer, and
otherwise more serviceable, than the ordinary type we have been accus-
tomed to during the past.

While the foregoing shows what is desirable, so far as adding to the
collection is concerned, I cannot refrain from stating in this place the fact
that it seems of the utmost importance that the material we now have
should receive more attention than it has been possible for me to give it.
Since my time is so largely occupied with other duties, in connection with
the Fish Commission, &e., [ hope it will not be out of place if I humbly
suggest the importance of my having more assistance when at Wash-
ington to aid me in arranging and classifying the material in this de-
partment, as well as in doing other necessary work. Unfortunately, as
the case now stands, in spite of the utmost efforts I have been able to
put forth, a considerable portion of the material of this department
has not been entered on the catalogue, neither have there been prepared
proper descriptive labels for many of the objects. The identification of
many Of the models depends solely upon my memory and the knowledge
of the various craft, &c., which I have obtained by study and experi-
ence. It has been my wish to place the collection in such shape that it
would be perfectly practicable for some one else to take control of it and
go on with the work without any trouble or hindrance. This seems emi-
nently desirable, since, as all men are mortal, the value of any portion
of such a collection ought not to depend so much on any single indi-
vidual.

It seems proper in this place that mention should be made of the im-
portance of having descriptive and historical labels for each object. In
no other way, in my opinion, can a collection be rendered so instructive
and valuable as it can be by having attached to each article a somewhat
comprehensive label. ‘This having been done, a visitor to the Museum,
even a child, may acquire all the more important facts respecting
anything he may be specially interested in, while to the student these
labels will prove invaluable. Generally a label should not only give an
idea of the form of the object described and its dimensions, but it should
also contain what it is used for, and the locality from which it comes,
etec.; in a word, all the knowledge that one ordinarily cares to obtain.
More fully to illustrate the point which we are trying to make, we insert
the following samples of labels prepared for objects in this collection:

FISHING SCHOONER GERTIE EVELYN, OF GLOUCESTER, MASS.

Sectional model, port side, scale 1 inch to 1 foot. This model shows the exterior and
interior of the port side of a clipper fishing schooner, such as are now employed 1n the
general deep-sea fisheries of New England. It is specially designed to show the ar-
SECTION OF NAVAL ARCHITECTURE. 101

rangement of the interior, such as the forecastle, cook’s pantry and store-room, ice-
houses for the refrigeration of fish, bait, &c., the stowage of ballast, cabin, gear-room,
&c. The ice-house is built in the style which has been most commonly adopted on
vessels employed in the fresh-halibut fishery or the winter haddock fishery, and with
the exception that on some of the vessels the ice-house is divided into two sections—
the “forward” and “after” ice-houses—by a bulkhead just abaft the mainmast, few,
if any, differ from this. Comparatively few American schooners carry any other than
stone ballast, and such is shown, though a few, especially those of smaller size, have
some—that which is stowed each side of the keelson—iron ballast, and in excep-
tional cases a vessel may be wholly ballasted with iron. The forecastle, which is the
sleeping apartment for a portion of the crew and for the cook, and the place where
the cooking is done, and where the entire crew, including the captain, eat their meals,
is finished in pine, painted and grained. Lockers run around both sides, and serve
the double purpose of seats for the men and stowage for vegetadles, &c. The cooking-
stove sits on a platform, raised about 4 to 6 inches above the floor, at the after end of
the forecastle on the starboard side. There are three lengths of sleeping berths (five
berths only of which are nsually occupied) on the port side, and two lengths on the
starboard side, though it rarely happens that they are all filled. Besides these there
are two more berths on the starboard side, aft of the ‘‘dish-closet” (which is at the
side about abreast of the foremast), that are used by the cook for the storage of small
stores and other material which he uses. At the after end of the forecastle, on the
port side, is a small upright closet with shelves where the cook keeps a supply of eat-
ables, which the fishermen have access to at all hours of the day and night; this is
called the ‘‘grub-locker.” Near this is the door leading into the forehold, where are
the cook’s pantry on the port side, and the coal-pen on the starboard side, and where
also is stowed a supply of wood, flour, beef, pork, &c. Beneath the floor of the pantry,
at least in part, are the water-casks, each holding about 250 to 400 gallons, these being
supplemented by a greater or less number of barrels filled with water, which are also
stowed in the forehold. In the pantry the cook prepares the food for cooking, and
this apartment is often painted in a neat and tasty manner. The ice-house is sep-
arated from the pantry by a double bulkhead of matched boards with tarred paper
between. The platform of the ice-house is usually made of spruce or pine planks 2
inches in thickness, these being laid on sleepers of 3 by 4 scantling, which are fitted
in their proper places, well secured, and also supported in the middle before the ballast
is put on board. The platform is held securely in place by the stanchions which form
the framework of the pens or sections into which the ice-house is divided. Each pen
is separated from the next by a single partition of one-inch boards. A portion of the
front of each side pen is tightly closed up from the floor to the deck, while the re-
mainder is adjustable, a number of ‘‘ pen-boards” being cut of suitable lengths so that
by sliding in grooves in the upright stanchions they may be put in or removed as oc-
easion demands. The pens on the sides are called ‘‘ wing-pens,” while those in the
center aisle are known as ‘‘slaughter-house pens,” the one, however, which is directly
under either the main or after hatch having the name of ‘‘slaughter-house.” The
cabin is finished with hard wood, usually black walnut and ash; it has four berths,
the forward one of which on the starboard side is occupied by the captain, while the
others are taken by such members of the crew as may secure them by lot, since there
are no under officers to claim them by right. Beneath the cabin floor, in which there
is a small trap-door, a supply of coal for the cabin stove is carried. Aft of the cabin,
in the extreme stern, is a rough, unfinished apartment, where such materials as spare
fishing-gear, light sails, cordage, blocks, &c., are stowed. The larger mass of fishing-
gear, which is very bulky, is stowed in the ice-house when the vessel is making pas-
sages. The particular schooner which this model represents was built by Messrs.
Bishop & Murphy, of Gloucester, Mass., and launched in February, 1883. She has been
employed in the winter haddock fishery, carrying her catch fresh to market, a distance
varying from 150 to 300 miles. She is about 82 tons register (135 tons builder’s meas-
102 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884.

ure), and has made a good record for speed and sea-worthiness. She is from 4 to 6
inches deeper than the average American fishing schooner of the same size, has fine
lines, with long, sharp bow, which is slightly concave beneath the water line; mod-
erately full bilge; broad beam; long, finely-ent run; rather full, elliptical stern,
which has considerable overhang. The relative dimensions of spars, sails, and rig-
ging for this class of vessel is shown on the full rigged models. Gloucester, Mass.,
1883. U.S. Fish Commission. 76,011.

Dimensions of original.—Length over all, 87 feet; total length of model, including
stub bowsprit, 96 inches; beam (extreme), 224 feet; depth of hold, 8} feet; draught—
aft, 94 feet, forward, 5} feet; depth of keel, 22 inches; extreme length of forecastle,
22 feet; of pantry, or forehold, 74 feet; ice-house, 28} feet ; cabin (on floor), 10 feet;
house (outside), 113 feet. Height: Forecastle and cabin, about 6 feet under beams;
forehold, 6 feet; ice-house, extreme, 6 feet, average, 5 feet.

Names of the several sections of the model.

1. Upper forepeak berth. 2. Lower forepeak berth , generally used only for the
stowage of lanterns, oil cans, &c. 3. Table. This is divided into two sections, the
after one of which turns back, folding around and fastening to the foremast when not
in use. 4. Forecastle floor. 5. Locker. 6. Foremast. 7. Pawl-bit. 8. Heel of bow-
sprit. 9. Windlass. 10. Traveler. The lower jib-sheet block is fastened to an iron
ring which runs on this traveler. 11. Upper middle berth, port side. The berth cor-
responding to this on the starboard side is always occupied by the cook. 12 Lower
middle berth, port side. 13. Upper after berth. The berth corresponding to this on
starboard side is not so wide, and is used only for storage of small stures, &c., as is the
one next below it. 14. Lower after berth, sometimes called ‘‘slaughter-house” berth,
because of its exposure to cold drafts of air in the winter from the forehold and com-
panion-way. 15. “Grub closet.” 16. Entrance to forehold. 17. Steps. 18. Water
cask. 19. Pantry floor. 20. Fiour barrel. 21. Beef barrel. 22. Cook’s bread-board.
23. Shelves for boxes, firkins, &c. 24. Ice-house bulkhead. 25. Ice-house floor.
26. Shifting planks. These are rough planks, running fore and aft between the
stanchions, to prevent the ballast from shifting to either side in case the vessel should
be knocked on her beamends. 27. Ballast. The kind of ballast usually carried and
the method of storage is seen beneath the glass. The ballast extends the entire
length of the ice-house. 28. Forward slaughter-house. 29. After slaughter-house.
30. Forward wing-pen, port side. 31. Wing-pen, port side, next to forward one.
32. Third wing-pen, port side. 33. Fourth wing-pen, port side. 34. Wing-pen, port
side, next to afterone. 35. After wing-pen; port side. This is often filled with salt,
which is carried for the double purpose of curing any codfish which may be taken,
and also for saltiug the fishing gear when not in use. 36. After-midship pen. 37.
‘* Hospital” pen. This is the pen amidship which incloses the mainmast and pumps,
and is so called because it is difficult to ice halibut properly in it: sometimes called
the mainmast pen. 38. Slaughter-house pen. 39. Mainmast. 40. Pumps. 41. Fore-
castle companion-way. 42. Fore hatch. 43. Main hatch. 44. Quarter-deck break.
45. After hatch. 46. House. 47. Skylight. 48. Funnel-cap. 49. Cabin companion-
way. 50. Steps. 51. Locker-seats. 52. Binnacle. 53. Stove. 54. After berth, port
side. 55. Forward berth, port side. As arule, two men sleep in this berth. This is
in all respects like the captain’s berth, which is directly opposite. 56. Coal-locker.
57. Room for spare gear, &c. 58. Rudder. 59. Rudder-head. 60. Taffrail. 61.
Knight-heads. 62. Keel. 63. Keelson. 64. Cutwater. 65. Stem. 66. Stern-post.

IDEAL FISHING SCHOONER NEW ERA.
[Model, scale 4 inch to 1 foot.]

Builder’s model, showing starboard side of schooner; mounted in medallion, and
rigged with spars, sails, &c., complete. Clipper; long, sharp bow; deep body; more
than average ‘‘dead rise ;” long, clean run; full, elliptical, overhanging stern, slant-
ing upward from the lower center to the corner; fine sheer; long quarter-deck.
SECTION OF NAVAL ARCHITECTURE. 103

Dimensions of full-size vessel.

Hull.—Length over all, 8 feet; keel, 69 feet ; beam, 21} feet; depth of hold, 10
feet; draught, aft, 10} feet, forward, 8 feet.

Spars.—Bowsprit, outside, 20 feet; foremast, full length, 69 feet; mainmast, 704
feet; main topmast, 36 feet; main-boom, 58 feet (23 feet outside slings); fore-boom,
254 feet.

Sail.—Mainsail, luff, 454 feet ; foot, 56 feet ; leech, 58} feet ; head, 28 feet. Foresail,
luff, 43% feet ; foot, 243 feet; leech, 53 feet; head, 243 feet. Jib, luff, 67 feet ; leech,
44 feet ; foot, 27 feet. Fore staysail, luff, 49 feet; leech, 42- feet; foot, 204 feet.
Main staytail, luff, or forward end, 15 feet: head, 33 feet; leech, 44 feet; foot, 25 feet.
Main gaff-topsail, luff, on topmast, 27 feet; lower hoop to tack, 16 feet; leech, 36%
feet; foot, 284 feet.

Gloucester, Mass., 1883. 57,051. Designed by Capt. J. W. Collins, U. 8. Fish
Commission.

This model represents a schooner of about 90 to 100 tons register, designed espe-
cially for the winter fisheries. A vessel built from it would be about 2 feet deeper than
the typical American fishing schooner of the same length, and about 1 foot less beam.
[t would have less difference in draught between the bow and stern, or less ‘“‘ drag-
line.” The rig differs from that of the ordinary schooner in having a stem staysail
and jib, instead of the large jib now commonly used, and also in having shorter
lower masts. In summer the rig might be changed by the addition of a foretop-
mast and jib-boom, with sails to correspond. It is believed that a vessel con-
structed on such a model would be safer in heavy gales, and much swifter, taking the
chances as they come, than schooners of the ordinary type, which have much less
body under water. The ballast can, of course, be placed lower, and thereby the lev-
erage increased and the chances of capsizing decreased.

FISHING SCHOONER.

Builder’s model, scale } inch tofoot. Full, rounding, and flaring bow on top, sharp-
ening rapidly toward the water’s edge; long, straight sides; comparatively narrow
beam; square stern; low bilge; short floor; long, but rather fullrun. Dimensions
of vessel: Length, 66 feet over all; extreme beam, 18 feet; draught of water aft, 9
feet, 6 inches.

Essex, Mass. Type, 1845 to 1860. U.S. Fish Commission. 54,405.

This is the model of the schooner Elisha Holmes, of Cape Cod, built at Essex in
1849, to engage in the cod and mackerel fisheries. It is the form of a class of vessels
very much in use in the period from 1845 to 1860, and represents one type of the so-
called sharp-shooters of that day. During the transition stage from full-bowed to
sharp vessels it was the opinion of many experts that it would be unsafe to build a
vessel very sharp on the rail. It was thought that with a full rounding bow on top
and much flare, a vessel would be prevented from plunging as deep in the water as
she otherwise might do. Later developments have shown that this theory is a wrong
one, and that a vessel with a flaring bow is not as good as one with straighter top
timbers.

SWEDISH COD-FISHING VESSEL, BANKSKUTA.
[Model.]

Wood (ontside plank, oak; deck, pine), unpainted; carvel built; flush decked ;
wide and deep ; strong sheer ; full, flaring, scoop-shaped bow; great rake to stem ; hol-
low water-lines and floor; stern shaped like bow, full above, much concaved below ;
straight stern-post; narrow, square-heeled rudder; moderate depth of keel ; heavy
bow chocks; windlass works with hand-spikes ; cabin forward; 4 hatches; 1 pump;
1 large anchor; cable runs over roller in stem; steers with tiller; low, heavy bul-
warks. Ketch-rigged, with running bowsprit ; 6 sails—jib, stay-foresail, mainsail,
sprit wizzen, and 2 square-headed gaff-topsails.

Dimensions.—Length (hull) over all, 42 inches; keel, 28 inches; beam, 17% inches;
depth, amidships (bottom of keel to top of rail), 83 inches; bow (to top of stem), 13}
inches; to top of knight-heads, 12 inches; stern (to top of rail), 12 inches; (post 4
inch higher); keel, 1 inch ; dead-wood, above keel, 1g inches; bulwark, amidships,
inch; at stem and stern, 24 inches. Spars, bowsprit, 21 inches; 144 inches outside
of stem; mainmast (deck to eyes of rigging), 31 inches; eyes of rigging to topmast
104 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884.

truck, 16} inches; maingaff, 16} inches; mizzen mast (deck to eyes of rigging), 29
inches ; rigging to topmast head, 84 inches; sprit, 22 inches; outrigger, outside, 104
inches.

Bohuslan, Sweden, 1883. 76,008.
Obtained by exchange with Swedish Commission to International Fishery Exhibition, London, 1883. ]}

Vessels of the class represented by this model fish for cod chiefly on the Storregen
Bank. They make one voyage yearly, starting in April and returning in September.
They hail from the island of Tjorn, on the Bohuslan coast. ‘The peculiar flaring bow
is thought to be necessary, by Swedish fishermen, to enable the vessel to ride safely
at anchor.

GOTTLAND (SWEDEN) HERRING-FISHING BOAT.

[Model.] &

Wood; unpainted; clinker built, 7 strakes a side; 15 sets of timber; open; sharp
ends; deep keel; curved stem and stern-post; round bilge; 5 thwarts, 2 with mast-
holes; schooner rigged; 2 small, boomless, sprit sails, 2 square-headed sprit top-sails,
and 2 jibs; stone killick in wood frame; peculiar wide-loomed oars, with cleats to
ship over single round wooden tholes.

Dimensions.—Length over all, 5 feet 54 inches; keel, 3 feet 64 inches; beam, 1 foot
5 inches; depth, inside, 64 inches; keel, 14 inches; height, amidships, 8} inches; stem,
12 inches; stern, 11?inches; mainmast, 272 inches; sprit, 27 inches; topsail pole, 22}
inches (1 foot of this below masthead); topsail sprit, 124 inches; foremast, 30} inches;
sprit, 284 inches; topsail pole, 25 inches (18} inches below masthead); topsail sprit,
15 inches; bowsprit, 284 inches; oars, 29 inches.

Island of Gottland, Sweden, 1876. 28,149.
[Gift of Swedish Centennial Commission.]

Boats of this class are used in the herring fisheries from the island of Gottland in
the Baltic Sea, off the east coast of Sweden. In 1869, the number of boats so employed
from that island was officially given at 606, manned by 1,911 persons. The Gottland
boats have an excellent reputation for seaworthiness. It is said they are often caught
out in heavy gales. The largest of these craft are 25 feet long.

NETHERLANDS LIFE-BOAT.

[Model.]

Oak, with cork bead or half-round band along sides; open iron railing; unpainted.
Model divided into two sections, from stem to stern, to show the interior arrangement.
This boat has a round bilge; low, flat floor; a wide, very shallow keel; both ends
alike, full and round; curved stem and stern-post, both of which are high. Running
around both sides, from stem to stern-post, is an open iron railing, four standards of
which have row-locks at their upper ends. These rails are about 3 feet high on a
full-sized boat, and are for the purpose of preventing the occupants of the boat from
being washed overboard. Boat has two decks, between which are snugly packed a
large nuinber of air-tight galvanized iron boxes that fill the space between decks.
Along the sides of the boat are a number of holes provided with valves through which
water enters to fill the section below the lower deck. The boat, when afloat, is sup-
ported entirely by the air-tight boxes. Two strong cleats across the upper deck hold
the oars.

Dimensions.—Length over all, 19 inches; beam, 6t inches; height of hull, amidships,
2 inches; ends, 3 inches; stem and stern- -post, above gunwales, 14inches: iron railing,
12 inches; boxes, inch square; oars, 118 inches long.

Holland, 1880. 76,001.

(Gift of A. E. Maas, Scheveningen.]

This form of life-boat was designed by Mr. Maas, who says it has been used with
great success in saving shipw recked crews in the shallow waters off the Netherlands
coast. It is claimed that the boat is not capsizable, though this may be questioned,
The men stand on the upper deck to row.
SECTION OF NAVAL ARCHITECTURE. 105

Among the desiderata, which it occurs to me as the most needed at
the present time, I would mention the following rigged models: (1) A
snow of the seventeenth century; (2) the Mayflower; (3) a topsail sloop
(a craft much used in fishing and whaling in the early history of the
country); (4) Fulton’s steamer, the Clermont; (5) old style topsail and
top-gallant sail schooner; (6) Hermaphrodite brig; (7) brigantine; (8)
square-rigged brig; (9) bark; (10) ship, medium clipper; (11) a Con-
necticut sloop smack; (12) two-masted coasting schooner, Atlantic
coast; (13) three-masted schooner of the Atlantic coast; (14) four-
masted schooner of the lakes; (15) a Rockport, Mass., stone sloop;
(16) American pilot boat; (17) sloop yacht; (18) schooner yacht; (19)
cutter yacht; (20) Louisiana fishing lugger; (21) Cedar Key net-boat;
(22) New Jersey surf-boat; (23) transatlantic steamship; (24) Missis-
sippi River steamer; (25) Hudson River steamer; (26) stern-wheel
steamer, style used on Western rivers; (27) auxiliary steam whaler;
(28) steam yacht; (29) the model of the Viking ship exhumed in Nor-
way: (30) an English North Sea beam-trawler; (51) a Brixham fishing
eutter; (32) Scotch herring lugger; (33) an English Mount’s Bay lug-
ger; (34) an English well-smack; (35) a French fishing lugger of Bou-
logne; (36) a British steam-trawler.

The historical models might be supplemented by pictures of (1)
polacca-rigged vessel; (2) barkentine; (3) steamer Savannah, which
was the first to cross the Atlantic; and (4) a series of illustrations of
the earliest attempts to construct steamboats.

HISTORY OF THE COLLECTION.

Previous to the establishment of the National Museum by an act of
Congress in 1846, the earliest accessions which now constitute this col-
lection had been gathered by the Wilkes Exploring Expedition, 183842.
These consisted chiefly of a few models of the canoes and other water
craft used by the natives of the Pacific islands.* From 1842 to 1876 a
few models of canoes, &c., were obtained from various sources, but none
of them were of especial importance as compared with the more exten-
sive accessions in recent years, and it may be safely asserted that betore
the Centennial Exhibition the amount of material gathered appertain-
ing to this department was relatively smallin amount. The fine collec-
tions that were brought together at Philadelphia on the occasion of the
Centennial Exhibition in 1876 were almost without exception presented
to the Museum. By these generous gifts of foreign Governments and
individuals the Museum became the possessor of a rich collection both
of domestic and foreign water craft. Among other things derived from

*It is to be regretted that most, in fact nearly all, of these models, owing to lack
of care and perhaps to the fact that they were moved about considerably before
becoming the property of the National Museum, are very much out of repair, and in
some instances have been injured to such an extent as to practically render them
worthless.
106 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884.

this source and which are deserving of special mention, is that of a
large dugout war canoe, 59 feet in length, from British Columbia, which
now forms a prominent feature of this department. Large collections
of boats were also obtained from Norway, Sweden, China, and Siam,
which are of great value and especially interesting to the student of
naval architecture.

On the occasion of the participation of the U. 8. Fish Commission
in the International Fisheries Exhibition held at Berlin in 1880, the
collection was much enlarged by the addition of numerous forms of
American fishing craft, sporting and hunting boats, &; while by ex-
change and purchase at the close of the exhibition several very desir-
able acquisitions were obtained, principally of German and Dutch fish-
ing craft. The act of Congress authorizing the participation of the
U. S. Fish Commission in the International Fisheries Exhibition at
London, in 1888, enabled us to make other additions to our collection
representing the fishing flotilla of the United States, which, as has
elsewhere been stated, now comprises representatives of nearly all the
more important types of water craft engaged in this special industry.
In the mean time Mr. James G. Swan, assistant U. 8. Fish Commis-
sion, who has been stationed at Port Townsend, Washington Territory,
has been indefatigable in getting together a vast deal of interesting
and valuable material which represents the different forms of canoes,
dugouts, and other boats used by the Indians of the northwest coast.

We have already stated that the collection has been much enriched
by donations from foreign nations and individuals who participated in
the London Fisheries Exhibition, as well as by citizens of our own
country.
I (F).—REPORT UPON THE SECTION OF FOODS OF THE U. 8,
NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884.

By Romyn HitTcucock, Acting Curator.

The collection of foods, drinks, narcotics, ete., which has been placed
temporarily under my charge, has received during the year some valu-
able additions, but it has been impossible to devote much time to ar-
ranging or labeling the specimens; the labor required to prepare the
collection of textiles for the New Orleans Exposition having greatly in-
terfered with the regular work in this department. Such specimens
as have been received, however, have been properly cared for, and in
most instances placed in the cases with temporary labels attached.

IMPORTANT ADDITIONS.

Thirty-three specimens of foods, spices, and fruits of various countries
from the Royal Botanical Gardens, Kew, England.

Thirteen specimens, including starches, jellies, grains, and fruits,
from the Goverment of Hawaii, received through the Boston Foreign
Exposition.

A series of seventeen specimens of Cheshire salt, from Cheshire, Eng-
land, presented by Mr. J. J. Higgin, of Liverpool, England.

Seventy-six specimens of food from Guatemala, including coffees in
great variety, cacao beans, starches, flours, annato, tamarinds, and vari-
ous other articles, received through the Boston Foreign Exposition.

Nine specimens of foods from Brazil, including coffees, maté, sugar,
banana paste, araca paste, etc., received through the Boston Foreign
Exposition.

Fifty-two specimens from San Salvador, including seven specimens
of cigars, ten of leaf tobacco, ten of coffee, with varieties of honey, corn,
rice, beans, and various other products, received through the Boston
Foreign Exposition.

Seventy-nine specimens of canned goods, pickles, sauces, and manu-
factured articles of various kinds, from Messrs. Crosse & Blackwell,
London.

Thirty-one specimens of foods of various kinds, collected for the Mu-
seum by Mr. V. P. Parkhurst, in Jamaica.

107
108 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1384. :

Thirteen specimens of the “ dalls” of various qualities used in India,
from Rev. C. H. A. Dall.

ROUTINE WORK.

The collection of foods of the North American Indians, which is large
and of great interest, has been arranged in order, but many duplicate
specimens are in the cases, which must be removed when there is op-
portunity for studying the collection. These foods being principally
vegetable products, which are for the most part used without prepara-
tion other than roasting or boiling, it has seemed advisable to arrange
them according to their botanical relations.

The other specimens of food are partly arranged in the cases accord-
ing to the system proposed by the Assistant Director, and published in
Volume LY of the “ Proceedings,” appendix.

PRESENT STATE OF COLLECTION.

There are now on exhibition—

Inidiam\foods ./53 Mig... PILE ec sean ws care Sate w Sine peels coke Sweeteners 349
Qtherfoods;imarcoticsyidrinkis) S26) 225, jee cca seis ene eae og eleta = mele at 1, 231
Matas ae ae see U te eer cee Tee eee nee s = aera met epaare a ore mare Slate mieeete see ma eerie 1, 580

A large number of duplicate specimens is reserved for exchanges,
but the number is not known.

RECOMMENDATIONS AND REMARKS.

The collection of foods can be made of far greater interest than one
who has given no consideration to the subject would suppose. It is
not intended to be merely one set of specimens in bottles to show what
people eat, but it should be made to indicate the dietetic value of foods
of various kinds, to represent the best knowledge concerning the nutri-
tive value and digestibility of various foods, resulting from physiolog-
ical and chemical investigations. Not only should it indicate the value
of a.food, but it should also explain to what peculiar qualities or con-
stituents its value is due, and what combinations of foods are necessary
to the maintenance of health and strength. At present the collection
possesses very little scientific value; but it is hoped that in the course
of another year there may be a great change in this respect. Already
Prof. W. O. Atwater, whose analyses of various articles of food are well
known to chemists, has contributed some valuable results of his labors,
in the form of specimens for exhibition, to illustrate the composition of
the human body. These will soon he displayed, and thus a beginning
made toward making a collection which shall be of great educational
interest and value. The progress that can be made in this work must,
however, depend very much upon the assistance which the acting cura-
tor receives to carry on the regular museum work.
II.—REPORT OF THE DEPARTMENT OF ETHNOLOGY OF THE U.
S. NATIONAL MUSEUM FOR 1884.

By Otis T. Mason, Curator.

The duties of curator of the Department of Ethnology in the National
Museum were assumed on the first day of July, 1884. My first work
was to gather from the various rooms of the Smithsonian Institution,
from the Armory, and from the National Museum, every specimen of
anthropological material not already cared for by the curator of An-
tiquities, the curator of Civilized Arts and Industries, and the honor-
ary curator of Keramics. These objects I have arranged in drawers
according to certain classific concepts, not necessarily the same as those
used in the Museum, the intention being to facilitate ready reference
and comparative study. The advantage of this method is readily seen
in the fact that every ethnologic specimen can be found at once by my
assistants, that those things which are suggestive of the progress of
each art lie side by side, and that specimens badly defined or without
labels have easy explanation by means of their nearest neighbors. One
fact is revealed by this plan of temporary storage. It is that the former
methods of collecting material should now be replaced by a still more
exhaustive and scientific method. Every specimen now in the collection
is valuableand will find a place infuture installation; many also have the
great merit of being old and well authenticated; but, owing to the youth of
ethnologic science, hardly any efforts have been made to exhaust a single
art to represent its life-history in its entirety. The comparative anatomist
hopes by means of well-dissected specimens of present animal life to
reconstruct from a bone or two some extinct form. What would be the
chances of success for him, however, if he had but a few fragments of
the modern animal? Is not the attempt to reconstruct the society of
primeval man by means of desultory collections from the modern sav-
ages quite as futile? Now, with the permission of the Director and As-
sistant Director of the Museum, I should like to introduce a still more
rigorous policy in this regard, recommending, first, that all collectors
shall be instructed to observe faithfully all of the elements of each art,
and to omit nothing, however cheap or trivial, that illuminates it; sec-
ondly, that the friends of the Museum who have gratuitously contrib-
uted to its success, and who will continue to do so, be advised of our

109
110 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884.

wishes in this matter. Doubtless material of questionable reference
will continue to flow in, but under the secure guidauce of things wisely
selected even rubbish, well authenticated, will become useful. In ear-
rying out this view I would recommend the preparation of a short and
explicit guide-book on this subject. I would also most earnestly request
that contributors to our collections be impressed with the necessity of
sending their specimens which are subject to destruction by moths,
breakage, or weather promptly to the Museum, and to give as much
attention to preservation as to collection. It is a lamentable fact that
a very large number of the objects received during my short term have
been rendered comparatively worthless by a neglect of this precaution.
I cannot think of a greater disaster in museum work than that in which
the gatherings of a lifetime frequently are sacrificed in a few short weeks.
If contributors cannot comply with this request at once, they should
soak the specimens in benzine to kill any vermin already concealed, and
with a fine brush go over the parts in danger with a solution of arsenic
and alcohol, or corrosive sublimate in alcohol, drying in the shade.

Among the ends which the curator of the Department of Ethnology is
very anxious to accomplish, and toward which he begs the co-operation of
his scientific brethren, no one seems to be more important than a correct
nomenclature of the different classes of objects with which he has to
deal. On the one hand an utter disregard of nomenclature is so vicious
that no argument need be urged against it. Onthe other hand there is
a danger of overloading the subject with too many difficult names, tend-
ing rather to confusion than to perspicuity. The following rules, found
to be of the greatest service to anthropo-biologists, will certainly meet
with favor from all comparative technologists:

First. Every class or species of objects, and every distinct part of each
object, should have a name. ;

Second. Each class or part should have but one distinctive name,
although synonyms well understood may be allowed.

Third. Distinctive names should apply to only one class of objects or
parts.

Fourth. Names in good use, if distinctive, should always have prefer-
ence.

Fifth. If a class of objects is confined to a definite locality, then the
name used for that class in that region should be adopted, e. g., kyak,
babbiche, tepee, &c. If necessary, Latin and Greek compounds may
be used when no other modern appellation can be found.

ACCESSIONS OF THE YEAR.

It is contemplated to prepare, with copious illustrations, a classified
report of all the ethnological materials in the Museum, according to
those concepts or categories that are in use among ethnologists, such as
function, tribe, geographical distribution, degree of elaboration, mate-
rial, classes of investigators, &c. For the present, in order to show in
REPORT OF DEPARTMENT OF ETHNOLOGY. sh

as profitable manner as possible the true value of the year’s collection,
and also to bring before the mind of the Director the great gaps that
have been left, a beginning is here made of the kind of report hinted at
above.

The geographical concept is here made prominent, because it brings
us into immediate relations with the collectors. Following this, classes
of objects, with their functions, receive attention, especial care being
taken to distinguish the relation of form, &c., to tribe, environment, and
material.

ESKIMO OF GREENLAND.

Disco Island.—Plate of whale’s vertebra and bone implement found on
Disco Island by the Greely Relief Expedition. 5 pieces.

Holsteinberg.—A kyak with accouterments complete, consisting of
the typical Greenland skin kyak, line-rack, harpoon, harpoon-line, and
throwing stick (the latter having two perforations to fit in ivory hooks
in the shafts of the harpoon), seal-skin float, double paddle strengthened
with plates of ivory, short lance, halibut lance, fair-weather jacket—
which is simply a broad cincture of dressed seal-skin fastened around
the hole at the top of the kyak and under the arm-pits of the navi-
gator, to keep the spray from entering the boat, and water-proof jacket
of seal-skin worn during rough weather.

ESKIMO OF POINT BARROW.

One of the most valuable collections in the National Museum is that
which was deposited during the last year by Lieut. P. H. Ray. Inas-
much as an exhaustive report of this collection is now being prepared
by Mr. John Murdock, only a brief mention of the various classes of
objects will be made here.

MPMI RLONE ad ITOM DIGdOS ioc oe = eo ~ vce re coc cece se cscs cep ccoceueeees 21
PeEnearas BHAA OL DONG foe sos Soc 'as occme so oa ce cine™ cad hbgucameee dean 9
Wooden boxes and skin bags with carved ivory handles, for tackleandimplements. 17
MV RIVERH PES LL YTCL ORS en a eee ey Son ao oer Scat ciate Melanie enero ai stars 25
RI Cnv ir Car yin eo rN. as ack ac ndunaa Weewte Mae aan eran 60
eased to wive edeceks int hunting... 2c. sis ve can ce eens pacece meen 18
Combs for straightening the hair on deer-skin ...... 2... 2.0. cece cone sees econ nee 7
GE ata eel pn Ae SE Pa hans GE Tt lt Se es a 3
PEI REI TOUTE AUC. . 8-5 wo en cone an co ua maces mienenee< apa case nanos 28
Ie tn foe hs. ww enn Sum eaneeee Eoeing See e mene 2
Hous, and other amusements for children . 25.20. os ook ee ew ccc cece sec ce cnn 12
PERRIER MCT ORSEt meter er), Sot kei CA ee eee een er ce ss oan 38
Implements and weapons connected with hunting and fishing .................. 168

Harpoons—one of which Mr. Murdock calls a “retrieving harpoon,” consisting
of an ice-pick, shaft, fore-shaft, loose shaft, and point, all fastened together.
The line is held in the hand when the whole weapon is launched.
Mr. Murdock distinguishes three types of the lance—the slender deer lance, the
medium bear lance, and the broad, clumsy whale lance—none of them barbed.
Miveical instruments; drums and whistles 12.2.2 ooo cco ce cece cece es ceweee 1)
edge oh ce ds AA Ce ke kiewas vance ccessentes 6
112 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884.

MASKS. nes <2 sda 2 cea mnebid tan ee eelee en eek bale dace etiagn side mates pat kee eee Pannen et eee 10
Knives (including chipped flints, slate knives, ivory-carver’s knives, &c.) and
kknife'sharpeners:. 222 oe. ube ae oe Hoe Ae ee eens eater ata et tee Sen eee ores 117
Tools for working in ice and snow, mattocks, picks, &c...............--.------- 10
al) Tec Ree ee See Ae eee eee roe ee ce Hee Seon Be nO porno OLe cides 9
S10 Wi SUGOS oe: cite Perens epee ney eee SEA ees PES OS oe tte ai clar pairs.. 3
SDOW GOPCIES < ono 2245) 88 wc sctysn Sant UES esi dt sh iaaeseeireiee wee gomeemebisee haere 4
Needle cases, and sewing and netting needles -... .... .... .----- 22+ eencee nannce 40
Sledimodels’ 2.2.55. Aces atncet aes seisee ie se mace ba see en eine ersmte weecettetels a tee 2
Perforators‘andlfire drills 222s cae scores s sje ne see ceere eit eeele ee eee em ease eee eee 45
Mechanical tools (hammers, flint chippers, scrapers, &c.) .....----.------------ 29

COLLECTIONS FROM OTHER SOURCES.
Chukchis or Eskimo of Northeastern Siberia: Vega Expedition.

Leather bag containing flint and tinder; bag made of braided fiber; portion of a
quiver; skewer for stopping the flow of blood from a wounded animal; two
images—bear aud seal—worn as pendants; these flat-bottomed carvings, ac-
cording to Dr. Franz Boas, are also used in playing a game. A number of them
are held in the hand and dropped on a flat surface. Those that fall upright,
count. These two objects are carved in ivory. Hoe made of a scapula, lashed
to the flat'end of a pine handle, with deer-skin babbiche. For this purpose six
perforations are made in the scapula, and three in the handle.

Diomede Island: E. W. Nelson.

BING (SPORT) fae Sees eel soe eem ve sisi poet taieicteatea senate cele tis eietetale ca lee nlelialstelatetaiateite 1
Norton Sound: E. W. Nelson.

TROP ia) OUIGN chee EO aetinibede Gaearc cadb ad de doecoEneeitiano. dHoada Sane coeetncs 2

BOWS Rese Seon ed atice: sas adele =siscnimiocle cain eee sane cienesinsine wettererms cer 3

Fish-gig, like Neptune’s trident, central point short and not barbed, outer
prongs elastic, barbs introrse and triangular -. ......--.- 2-2-2. e----2 eee ee 1

Tua bEeti 5 2) = SGse lot zeae esis cel eeciertanistociebioweele a cs ciskecsteldaemtsecetcctte 1

Seal SVCAaTS,. 2 nies cod fates seetie a oma, chisihed wails boleln age ee eee een eee 2

Bristol Bay: C.L. McKay.

SEC OTS pane aes Bocae Sac arene accesses GooGoo Adon do.dobece HoacHOodacconee: 2
Ivory tukesiof boat-nooksiecce us ossrceee seen ees ae emetnie sees alee alee 2
igh =NOOK soe a. oeces ca ee a ee a cle aie ere ee eee an ieee cannes Selecteer eee eet 1
Seal-pladder Duy, ~casiewce cee nee eee aan crceinietae oe witicle male siete in cieiae erates 1
ivory, powder Charges cs cocice- samsis se > cee <)asce cee ee tetceolenma a cteisieme efor ans 2
WOM Sia. Sa a ctaravae emt ee spaces Seen oe eee oon eee eesbiacestnecensieeciemee 4
Bone and 1vory labrets so... <secialaieaacleina aeiaeieea ese selene oslo na eine sateen 10
Wooden Vessel. 2/5520 decae canicete cee ces cciiwees seeae eee css aaa emeeeeee 1
Hooks used in the house for suspending food, &¢.......--.----------+----- 1
ivory leather-creaser esse. seis encase aolea ce beec cal ceecien estos cena ecisnente 1
Wooden finger-rings. «oo Wc bec haih bn a se eeiee Sen deca ence ne asienen etesineer 2
B6ad OTM AMET i's ois cece hokee eo ieale a seis CR aaiee plsielels iclelisleisiocieteiste bic sia iaeeelee ees 2
Carved: bodkins: <2. </e-s5 ssc aanens as ue enim saree seislism eet ae eer eiee 3
Thimbles: 2.22)... <5 5 cnie manoiy eels ecten asec eceme ee ahesitao elas cae saa conaeee ments 2
1 DICT) je oO A eat I NE tee ae eae 3 eset eens pair.. 1
Belgt@e gle): set. 220% on aaa) te dem shh celacieeein Seneniee ea tae teas ane 1
CARVARGG ie oo). 5-<jces, «a0 0 soninion Sncineisininns eins Binte mammalian keen bine Rina tend 15
Pouches for tackle and fishing implements... ...... 2.220 .eeeee enee ee ee ee ee 6

Knife blades and sharpeners. ....s2c\.c<ss«acacaues toes eneenaescmenieden eye
REPORT OF DEPARTMENT OF ETHNOLOGY. 118

Bristol Bay: William J. Fisher.
onion bandi8: Of IOl NE Macs ox Lb Sane. eau pemtews wis Sed Sh weds dewnd cee
SHIT a NS LE 2 ee ee Se ST er a Ser RES oe ich SRE een a ee eee
PI RMTACANOURNORT, NOBUS! 6. oc ea c open oem ames eatae ao ec no em ReES ah 4
SRNODE SE oe oe a ee ws wee oe nip ein cievoe mechs mie aE Se See
PNeOMONDEH.« DOUG. and WOOd).2 =. .0is6s cea aepa haere sac ue ec an/ Mean eos
eemmatine tor proat harpoon... .-.<-0...«s2s<<aasecbacmnnancknilcaias eh iin :
PTEMBER eae mice ds Sen bin Sa mie ace oye ets ea eee RE OE Ee ees

Kodiak: William J. Fisher.
WML EC OT mUPEI RUE CRES Ytota rs. are L RL A ie oie eee ei cee Meee ame
Circular pieces of pine wood with twelve lines radiating from the center to
represent the months. On the two sides of each line very small holes are
placed, opposite each other, representing the days. Small circles in red
paint stand opposite some of these holes for purposes not mentioned by
the collector.
SEE ORE DUPRE Sacre Wace be Sco St kccmn phan sey oes owas sean genes
et tee eR eRe pena tina suns ae shee decane wenoenewnme Con mee
Bie tm plemoen ts, KNIVES, PIGKB, do S.2L. Sol. lek Wc eee te
EE ees oe rn eee Ge Seo mre tee Joon oascsece Cone anne aeaeeaee
RENNES. Ore ees han ca kbawer Sa cin ae as Gocsneecame ae ouwedae
PME AIT IE erento nee © arctan eran es amen nie Mocon soc cese hes Stee wceorark Sanuicces
AMEE etree oe Sarawal ae oe oe ae ale mae ee ciciwemis cisiosns voce. eanmaeeas scsme
SUMING INARNES wow jn dee cals weet codeine cual Uses baccisscnatoe sean stuceee

VN CLE PUGS (S Pere gS ees oe Se Se ee ee ere ee ee a ee
AO TG if Pa eeE Ee ne Se Oe ee eee Sey ene
EAU TERURT MIC ere Meee hn N es Str el tot ae here Rea cidna sone e oiere clea lojatas Maw aye aameaee

Kenais, Cook’s Inlet: William J. Fisher.
RO BO aget Re saa ter hat eins A ater fie ta far alae ie te e'e waa ot a ee bel be he ba eee
Ammunition belt
WEST bya ov (a he Ce OE ok ee ee ee ee el
Bearers dena! tar pada ase Aas aro inletacas sees out Te ee ee
LISD (Te i ee Ce Se a a ee em eA bBo,
Grass mat

ee a as

Katmais, Kodiak: William J. Fisher.
RETIN ICOU Sere clare S Na aides a Sine ob’ winx s' 5,w SEE a aie ane ee ee eer

Kelp line and hook
ee sein a viv g Aan dnn iat wns ahd Rome era ner es mene eal cia
Wooden ladle

ee er ee
me ee ee ee ee ee

ee ee ee

Indians, Upper Yukon River: J. G. Swan.
Parts of a trap.

S. Mis. 33, pt. 2——s
114 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884.

Thlinkets, Sitka, Alaska: T. Dix Bolles.
The specimens in this collection were found in very ancient graves.

Wooden: masks ..secs coo 55 shades cece babe cone suceesceeee

Carved. wooden rattles ...i2. cde 22. tice teats etees eoete eee eee eee eeaees
Wraricltbs):cacn enc cucchotl ina tunts-ceecimenen ce acest ae acheter eee he Sees
Bone: CHaATMAs<..2... caccccsase es cule tsec wane cca ae theme poten sees eee
Ivory fluke of boat-hook
Wood carvings
Dance wands «cos sec s2 sce es secnceeice ce eis tern ce soe oe rete Oe oe Oe ee
Parts of head-dress

Head Gressesi<)22caicce 224. aaaeds cma eee aaa ee eee ee pepe ee a
NeGkIAG68incs00 ec ea cneem i nae caxeect Ee Bost sake opis ae ee
Shaman’ssbasketiof charms =. 2c > cers arene ae oe aieya ie ee eee pieces. .
Grass hates c= cass, pce ano sivas SoeGu et oae soso semis see ceaee as ees

Fringed Jeather sash: 24 s..0se shed ons ee oe ee ee eee eee

Articles of dress, leather

Breast axon sos. et ee eet ae eee ate io ee eye) aletelee dctatetemeiat roe atte = aaa eet

Wooden clappersissceis sac seen ees lan wae aie <a ane ane soem ee eet eee

(Two disks of wood with handles; one of the handles is rigid, the other flexi-
ble; the two are lashed together. When the clappers are shaken, the piece
with the flexible handle moves up and down and strikes against the other,
making a rattling noise like a castanet. )

Takoos: J. G. Swan.
Carved. wood en) Gishes 22 222 enc encore eine eaueecrceis

Graham Island: J. G. Swan.
Peccary tusk, obtained by barter

Massetts and Skidegates: J. G. Swan.
StONG TRAAGSNS Rete sAS Chee ek Wee eke etch ase ashoseec ces cs Loner eres
Basket een sete este k heck coe See ee oe SR ie ema en cae since oa are arene eee
Carved boxes, of w00d)..<(26 a. sesjon0, 2045s Shas se ee Ee ee ee eee eee
Slatesboxes; carved: 22.02 26 oo ccc ese cer eres se secew seer inese = sae eee E
Yew work-box

ee er

@Cance*bailerss.0.b 22 act ee ee epee hoi eee ee Memes i Gare ee eee eee eee
(Carved! Canes 2525 8o825 sos Pose bes chee eee en slered etonase aaeeee meee Saeaee
(Dan Cin peo Wes CON DON ae eter eee eet te eee es
Wood and stone carvings: —2 5 oc a. cee se ee ee eee ee eee
Dl abe Or CARVIN Oo. eee eens cet eee he ees er eee ieee eee piece...
Copper bow and. arrow, ceremonial 2 sees eet esesel eas eee eee pieces...
Emblemsiof ranks ichieh’s staves sa2--ces- see eeee = soe eee eee aes
Ohi sibow: 8nd RrrONy) eee sais ae oe near aie eee pieces...
BDOCHOTS SUB VIR oi cre ete re cere rete te oe ete la laa aim nto ao cee ete
WOCTOMS CHALWIS.-<.ceeeit—- =< Speci bere eee craic ee age esi adnan eit ete rereneretets
Copperidacrerss. 202. Doc sscees saciclee ee oe alee te iii i a ete ote eee
mibromersd ‘belie 24-2 ese be cee cae Cee eee ee ee eee es eee ere eee
(ioth Legrin pe 7 cocewc ae eee een ee eine =e ee eerie mete eee pair..
Bar ornaments 21.0 1S eieoe Sine sein eee ees Renee REL e epee eae
DAN CRNATGSS se ee oie case pene ae eee as einen pieces...
Noselormanment.. 3. . jee eee ee ebb pclae Aah Sm amine aR CIS) sey
Beaver sesbibs so 252 hccecc bdo oes seem iss a= enqee alae eee et ee string.-
Neécklacesesc2 cisco dec Sss 28s See ols CSR a a ee eee

Copper omamentio-—- eee oe eee eee PEE a SSR MN pS Am nies
O00: dishes? 25sec c Sao esas cee mee elaine eee ieee aaa eee
Seal club’ 2500 a: otc dese teuceeeeeee mses eee seeee |S iaidte dare See ae aeoets
REPORT OF DEPARTMENT OF ETHNOLOGY. 115

Massetis and Skidegates: J. G@. Swan—Continued.

Alp UHOORN 2c eeere En ew ae ac oe Uh eam co canoiea we cenon se Scaacereee se 4
PIR ERA rw ic cnt cs nie se woe oe a a ee ae net a tI oe cole baie se 4
ERE ODOUR INS foc a ae cage, orate nee ee eee eae os a See 1
Berrie are a Se Ie cas oka ee ee Ane ae ee einen saves dap ap dat Py ate 1
LACKED EN MSR ee SE Ee Oe SNe ty oe oa Gb Ors See e are re 1
CLS US = a anne eee Re ee Re A eae Se ee ee eee ee 1
EEMMDLN SUCKER. <<. 4 50h c2ccse5. ceases a Soe Ghee ROMER EOS BM CREE Soca sets... 2
LENE TYSL gL ORC) A} EY ES Se ap ee ee eo ee Se a id ah eee oe

EMM ee eee coe cw Sos Secu bo TSE i bten toe eeemuet ee ee oases 25
ete ONGRBOS Ete 2254/22 8h 3k Se ees on SP bot See eee Se ae 6
MIGHONOLSHOUGCKS<ciacsesde sk scss Vessk cess sas san dou Semees Sezeset tees ese a 1
Ban broMmercdsknile SUEAtHe .ccosceels ce. accu eke ee Rk et ences. see 1
MERA nate ee se kee bleissictoninln an aaeulscctocie fetes eee ee eee eee 5
PUNO EESRE REE Se Ph hao ee on aoe alee ole o cio or NS So dtend cee Soames Woe ae oe ee Be 15
STEAL CE LOTIG)) pe 25s acc eters awe tes alee ote siale Saee seis Sa os oe ce oe eee 7
WE PODUEE Se = SR Se i ee ee en a ee ae Se ence eM) per):
UT SECLIE  SER PEE ee pe oie nae  e A C Re aceP 1
TSE 2 Cs oy Re SR A Oe ee ee eee aren ee ee 3
LP SDTIEEY “Perea Es eS ae Ee Se SE se eM A ile mec Ai 5
PenueoIn OOO LOS ABU PALIN, OlCs ena =— foe se = e's Socio wos atet eee ce aecensecen 12
PaaEee eR ate case asa alocn dr sisak Sawa ioolents coe ee te ete SEEPS i Pe 1
PERSE ALOR Roan ee Laie SR kee eee LR Sos acne ).t che KE Gack KLE wee eeaeeee. 4
PR SRIGPRTRGINGS oe sy ac cisre See ye Re AR Se ose ee ae ae Ay ae 15
et SORENTO 5c cc pee ee pe ce mone ere a wees We ase soul aes kates 6
BIS PER ODA fs tht 2) Sean pote wn fee ue cle scot ere ete ee Be oe 25
LD REDS) Eee a nas en Be On ESR On oe CEE 22
eaten POR ERGY WOE EN: oe ie Soe mba ie iets oS ne OR SS 24
ea eaten ChE) rn eee oh ey nie os eee skies eRe eens es 1
MESH CMNGHISDIORY pene cess onc ones CA een awe ons cc sats Bonet enc veer acnee mers 36
STE RILGH DAT sos meee ne Les memo A ons eet twee ee ae eee Cee ee 1
RRR OPE ot ene mre Chee te ee UR Sell ts Nees Cee ele rae 2

Bella Coulas: J. G. Swan.
WOOGCIINANKS 522282253 253825 3o26 eee crete hoo Laat aoe a eee 8
SR ADEN atta) te att Pee ee eon ene docs vnw non setae eee 2
CUS P02 Ee =e i ee Ee AE) Cee ee Yee ook 8S Cech eee 2
Makas: J. G. Swan.

ueeeLs tor tackle, do. (cedar bark). ....-.....-»272Susy. veh gens Se 4
MONE COVELOD With. DASKEU=WODE 6 owe tcciwniem acoecouvcd tadt See tees. «86 2
PbONTe AIG OG ATTOWS (YEW), =... 2s. -<ccn-5 so ansewaues 9

Quiver, 4 yew bows, 14 cedar arrows .-.......--.----- sisi eid a em dias ere? 19
Lo LUE DES TR Oy Ya Reg ae ae

EE oe i knoe fad c0'e do mata Sid wa nin da Se he Re EWE s {
RE IONIC fo oa is a dn dees, nd awn acd eee RENE Be ec nleee sy 1
Ie a a acces 26 ae aon a4. oes ae gee ee Rc be A. 1
Model of whaling canoe Ee eaplese) Sse ee a oe Seren ae ae 1
RONNIE crete tetas sing nia misinice das Gouwee knew Meee A ORR Ree, Ja sie 1
IEEE oo a waiaianc sac oaks va wdeedue se emcicee esses tue od no 3
I ht eae cand baa dus cove ae seen AER EN Re can wake ts ve 11
vali LG LS eM oe eg eR Sen a eC le soca Se ae 20
ENE Bo Sack: ac nicn a nds man Gaconwicwin Draw ae OMe de Deh te cece cc base 4
PPL AUN ODOUR Ga Lol to ors oa autatae Ato t area se eto ee Pe de 2. 2
IN Fors F205) aati Saree teenie et! tee eee Le 4
RRNA EN atc ta ere Aer ee e det EL, 1
ee PENPRINIRMENT rt Tact Aa Se an, cae neal Cob ceed See 2

Rag mat, or rug, woven like basket “3
116 REPORT Ol NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884.
Taos: F. H. Cushing.

Metich co.cc. se eces land. 8 ors SSaco actos ee ee ee ae Sere oe ene eee 1
Zunis, New Mexico: Col. James Stevenson.

IGIIONGS ¢ isi. seco toe Seo Sn see ae a eee Sons Sie eee 108

Weavanoystick so ccscsssse sence ease nee =A) on ere ee ee areata eee ete 1
Navajo Indians, New Mexico: F, H. Cushing.

Mebiches .<)-...5- 2) --2ccscacis as 2-28 one Cees ios ered eae a ce -seneene aera 2
Navajoes, New Mexico: V. Mendeliff.

Silver jewelry (native! work)! 22.220 006 sosoce scence nee eset pieces.. 22
Mokis, Arizona: Col. James Stevenson.

Hetiches? j2fia cee seit Jedees ckeoges weeatyusc snes ae a eee 5
Apaches, Arizona: B. A. Clemmer.

Necklace of fingertips: co. ssecck pees eee ssseee scatleee er eeee eae a eee i
Apaches: Dr. W. T. Parker.

Bedy 2 see eer steele cee aes meee te eees Ee ate be eras ee sere = reenter ee eee 1
Arapakoes, Idaho Territory: F. E. Wilcox.

Saddlowmacsesencec scree cot oteare eee snatiae ateo Pr ee et be tirana os Dale) al
Assinaboines, Dakota: F. H. Cushing.

Moctasiney ts cee Uaioe cite: cee an ee ores ob oe a meme eer means pale
Kiowas, Dakota: D. B. Wilson, U.S. A.

Sila Sasa Perce cae See ce ee Base the calc acse See eee: Bee ee ae 1
Sioux, Dakota: F. Riggs.

Head-diress 2), 2252.2 2e ai sieaceseaynsacumenn chaseseece cones eee ee ee eee 1
Sioux, Dakota: A. Gecks.

Medicine man’s! pipe ere set nee ee ete ete ee orem eee coer ee are aera eee eee 1
Rees, Dakota: F. G. Walters, U.S. A.

EHoe.-niade ofshoulder*blades aa esas eyes Soe eee cee eee eee 1
Blackfcets, Montana: P. R. Brown.

Reed mat. 2.5 oes sonnei haceeee sees uneecee ieee sect e eno UEe eae 1

Wooden bowl... 2 sctaee te eee oceeeecse sect Meee crease eye eee eee a)
Chippewas, St. Ste. Marie: J. H. T. King.

Grave Geposits.. oc. cee see eee He ciel notice walls tane heme eee pieces.. 12
Poncas, Nebraska: G. N. Hopkins.

AS POA OTAN G2 Sarssteys oa tie sce ps ric wreteeuae site scere Giayeis Meme ie bls (See Pte oe ee ere 1
Winnebagoes: J. D. Middleton.

Medicine, man’s.elnb: siete ees bons ce Ree aoe cee eee eee 1
Mohawks, New York: W.H. Holmes.

‘Wampum belt: 2.22 sha Sasha ce Cas ee ee pee eee toate aoe ner see oe eee 1
Florida frontier: Dr. E. Palmer.

Mosquito‘brush)..o-2 soscsesoae ose seo care oes! bac ee mee oma eaireceeeriaees 1

1221 0 ee SE ee enue Pe ee aun eRe hers) Se AAR Iam AN OISE Ga Caan aoc 1

Sticks used’as'toothbrushes> 22.722 c-.see ee so on2 ee ome eee bundle... 1

Nicker seed, used’ as marbles by the boys. -----. 222.220. sa2= 5-52 snes DAG
Florida: J. Bell.
Slippers made of rattlesnake/skin(c 22 se2.. ccsncs eocion-| eee eee paire-
Antiquities from Ancon, Perw: Collected by George W. Kiefer, and Dr. W. H.
Jones, U. S. N.

Reediwork-basket .< -s:2.0.4bnscca scene con see ese ee ae ee eee ee 1
Wooden meedies.222:5...0554-2cd.e00854 RS aCe pon Sale cet ons eice 6
Spindle-whorls: 5.3.0). 0ss00j: 52 senemecenese ses secicseccsssae se nmeee a eee 5

SilverspNseioss. coc ste dease an ooo ssc ee serea ee ae oie ee eee eerie nahi 6

|
|
|
|

REPORT OF DEPARTMENT OF ETHNOLOGY. 117

Antiquities from Ancon, Peru: Collected by George W. Kiefer, and Dr. W. H.
Jones, U. 8. N.—Continued.

Fe PAIS ct ape es hese Sneak rape ee pa tees Meee sys es aledos 2
DUO LBMUDIN 7 Lion ans curmays Wa uwae acetnees cewaseaess.ocs nt buss Sy ateeee 2
Stone gorget, crescent. ....-..- aaa ee ee Hees fice 5 os oats 1
Poncho .... -- rete telat tere Si mii i ae oe eee ee ne ete OR ety NEP RS 1
ON a aig te oo oS) Sin Sew ci re ae te es a iE Siero, bel 2
Ears RIREOOET Fa 2) oe 2c eaten ae wid cee ae oe ee ee eR nee eer ae 8 Rew 7
PMeCOT GALA TES DCANG/ 5 22.05% ao me So RiGee Teo eee tee ae a at ee 1
PS OLMOOMUENNINE (COLON - (<<< < octet} Scioto k Soe aoe eel Re noe eee ae eae i
PULOCOOM GALL VOANUOS f= 0-5) foes aa ee in same ee ae mee een era as 1
DEEN ea eras orate a sion oce kwon to he nee shea nen meee eae ene 1
on ELL 2) Es he a bl a RRR Ly te at tre ue Rg AAS le A i
penta MOON -OTCHN s O52 S526 3's 2... PE ates be Se a Se 1
ite Ups ard ree wae Oe ar ee he Se Soon 8 Ss 5 oe a5 2a w San ees oe See ee 1
RMR esis, oma ee cae as Ae bea sen esbixocshe swage tenaeehaus Mase 9
ME RRR ts helo arte ager nc ne wie HES eRe ate eeu A 2
CODES TUL ns eee ee ome Se oraS 2
MUNICH AGK Ole 6 fee oa eee eee re ee ner a ks Lianpeaane slag aee eee 2
MRRORITOG WR ANG aee nae er aa eee secre acts ciaess ids noc sec ets clam anise eee eee i
MOSER aa NN Leal OU QUIT SATB 2) ahora ct er ee a Rees ee EL oc eo xo Aug aiaiee seca caee cane e ae 1
MIRUEENATOO GONG: me ea oes aa se ee ead wsice Sie cae av ent ee ee a as 1
eamEtee HEB OVALE 5 77nic Anca sa U Seal rath 2h adeeece cd cut asada anne 2
Gea GU ree ae re meer aca Meee esas Se an SES oa cine ee eet e ee 1
PURE ONOAN soca ac coe om esis = Meese gem a aalet 5 siolate lane ea epee seein ts 1
SFHcM ED AlOLUTOW MeV AEN sees sce Sots ee et eran aaa a ee cael eare meena & eee 1
PS plenearrORD RINCHUG =). cua e ne means Coos anne rom ee sac Soeeme see eaela wc eae 6
Gee OC MINCE eon tts asceel seit Su sjaseie waa basi cleeicet see ses cares coseas 1
RIPPLE DEACC OUR! = otao cereal a sats natn ooo wars wel caren one naa seeeree es aseiaeteeclesee 2
SUOUSOPH MON CR =i seas Mots nine e cbierisiepsie siokis bos iatsaicics = Sates geese se umso eee 2
MMM INOKG ons Steen ys ke set sted Seas es coe: Aa eos coos seodsee eee cemnee 1
PAMUINTO ty PAIN G aa2 ome eee a Sac Same =o Sae ics ees elswins woes se omnioe eee emesee=ee 2
Ry a ee er SS ee a ee Sees 1
EME ROA So eee ci aise eevee ninanse es ane =a 3+ => dees ee eee 3
WSC GON I ee ee OY ANE OSS SS PSE DRE BE OEE aeRO On feet adr tar ise 1
CLE ASS (TC) Ek SM ge ae =, St Fe Ce ee Pet te eS es 15
SUE ELSE (ARO) 2 > oo acetate eatencte | cinco = ysl ene nia nin soko aa ly eget eee 2
OCMIVOUDIUS s noe -c2 6 cece Sewanee seca less s 6 cece ae siya senee ae poker eee sect ns 55
Gourd containing feathers and skull of a parrot, and mummied Guinea pig.. 1
MEmmnted COP, and parts Of ANOLNOEY. =... 5-2-2 4s,.sssjeon~ coer een ee cia = 2
AROS DED Ue pe eee i i ane A a eee ee oe See ee oe SARE ae 1
Pint anol, TOUS ee some tee coe a ao. t= vwasin< dot eee eee ee ese aee © 1
ee ee eee Se Mean arcs scmmen ates pair.. 1
PAE CaP OLE OR ee rcien peta site c oats wan. chee Con dese e eae emmeee eens d 2
BUG OMUBBEE sot Jee ee Soo an tos Sec. se ces ecic a oe eee een na ieee eae 1
PREC HenusOhelied CLOUM:. =o. = a5 ce cass Lone nie roma Ree ee eae 38
LTC Eee ee ee ese Gee oie eee 8 eS ee oe 1
OSH OOM RCO ooo ices Sota on ep poo ss assy ater ee En rae tae oases a ass L
DMEMEONU OU oe ten cess e oh cw oe nein oo ol Aa Ree eR ei ee ait cla el 2 1
CLLSSET NET oa hal aa lit- - ae ee hte ht eo) te ee 2
I ade Satie cc oa km nase = vhs sa tewe pegee OM aN sad a Suits anne on 3 ce 1
aE eee SLLORR te Ree nore asian ates bleak ee ee Re ea ws ae snc 356 2 =e 1
SSECEyS, TESS Se ey, Pa a ip A Siar Gr A <r a a Sa 11
By on SS Se nin wim ae eee ae en ee aa ae TR get dies ee Oe og ban See l
LEPC N TiS ogee ee ae eee Me Dee ae et eee canteen SSen ss bases 1
PEPIN SMEE ON ee fe sare aman nS ss ee cat teas eel weed odes Sccdas ace Caen 2
118 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884.

Antiquities from Ancon, Peru: Collected by George W. Kiefer, and Dr. W. H.

Jones, U. 8. N.—Continued.

Reeds, or bobbins ~ -.-.-- slo seu gos, oe eee nis noe ene oe See bi

TANICE, a taj wacisinn pease de wie SHES ae esa ae eee gee ee an ee

PIN AIS gates bore se scs wein e ele cenit sam setss on se ciha asa sauna hoe eee eta ene ee

Silver bracelets <:<: 5 -.cc secs esas sane en Seer oe ee eae See e ane
Nicaragua: Dr. E. Flint.

Bark shirt o2.25 22325 23350 2355 Sane f22 a dsa eo eee eee eee ae
British Guiana: C. Heape.

War club 2: s.\s20.- 0s conc meee code cesesc See cc see eee ieee ee =
Popayan, U. 8. Colombia: D. J. Benner.

Palm leat co0atic...; =. 55 .<cao sets trieeee eon ccet ee een ee ee eee eee eee

Guayamas, U, S. Colombia: J. H. MeNiel.

Brazil: Museum fiir Vélkerkunde.
Bow and five arrows) 2. <\o 2 sce os So Sa Sa pei sloe Ver dnoel seis see nee eee eee
THrOWING-SpCaTs ssoscsccsccccecoes sees sheesacceee as teal bosses eee eee
Tate Yama, Japan: P. L. Jouy.
SUOW-CLEC POLS! sesece caste iaceen eee ses one reas eee KEE SE CBES S60SG: pair...
Powder-lask floccac cee occas ene once Hebe memo en toes bee ape eeeee eames

EOE SINGS i ctemalsacts says ce ea ci saleea ed as see bee anins Sectlnes aeecaes pair.-

Shosjand-cloyenmade of antelopeiskin-222..s225-c-- or ee sent eemieera ce tae
Yokohama: P. L. Jouy.

Baskets .-+<.: pi Bwad Gees SSA MeeE wats cactineeee sisic scents seaaee eee
Omatichi: P. L. Jouy.

Shrine offerings! scan heels cols e ci censa nee cisions siseicietieeaiee toe eee
Nikko: P. L. Jouy.

SHOES ERs eee saci esate acct are meee ese etn macarons Sacer aeere -pairs. .

Antelopeiskin coatics «i j.ds5so5 Sa seds nase socsis secede e<acos er see eee eer

Shrine; Ofemngs ss as5o Jase sss sso sosa hase sels sisis acl sane es 6 == eee eee

Shoes andistockin@sweeese-tave ke ect cekicccees cece ste mcessase pair of each..

Pieces of pottery: sa.2<c-aneos =e ce suc seee ose Seber ewbnscs aise oe eee eee eae
Kurile Islands: A. J. M. Smith.

Puttin skin coabe.cescssscr esos se cee LU Se sctib des te ete e te bene seer onan eee
Bengal, India: International Fisheries Exhibition.

PAPO 25.) 5 tice a's aocaeses Saw sieee SiS Saar we Sa etnies Soe se ae aici steeie ere ieee
Nineveh: O. T. Mason.

Deluge tabletizas.< se chests sce danciowsacwasicecsee ecco hee game eee eeeene
Ningpo, China: P. L. Jouy.

Joss-stick powder.
Formosa, China: Gift of Royal Botanical Gardens, Kew.

Rain-coab of coir fiber .22222F22222s.22ss heck sctehtevaceiasvecoeeeeceeeeeee
Mangata: Charles Heape.

Stone-headed adze’::. 252 25 cai osc ie tsa races esc setetsas see ee eeemaieees
Asia Minor: Carnaduas.

AN GIONtHAM PS he. ). 5-10 Soenis ce sete acerca 2 cite Seite! Sasa asiee eo eee eee
Oxa Herero, Africa: Gift of Museum fiir Vélkerkunde.

ATTOWS) o 5-132 =-)4eqs cece sews lean cecuce «bem iae emilee Salsa ci See ee ea eee ee
Ebony clubjs2: sticss.4 sshd bees ake aS seers oeeees socisiemen io aaiace coerce aemees

~1

1

a
REPORT OF DEPARTMENT OF ETHNOLOGY. 138

Gallas: Museum fiir Vélkerkunde,

PTONAHOWMLED ALTON cca heen oss sone aye wae wa aeons sebeak Ssetemevereneesesh,  L
Nubia: Museum fiir Volkerkunde.

ROOT ens se) sere Mey BOS HA Re Se eu Ae eee tet ee Ren See elo ees sues 1
Mandingo: Museum fiir Vélkerkunde.

POO OIOO! ALLOWS. 65 <ecass vo'n- mnocies ©
Ova Mbo: Museum fiir Volkerkunde.

BMBGNEMOGIIATA So. .5< sos cc cSiececs- ceca

fsn-pOMmted ATTOWS..- <..<c<0'--5---5-5- : ‘ 2 s ay rss Ge
Kafiirs: Museum fiir Vélkerkunde.

RESET OSs: 2a cis corm n eo once etl scwe bee ace hese < Se ees <0 oe |
Africa: C. Heape.

PGR e Rte te ee Re R At caks tices buee uebasumccut
Africa: Gift of Royal Museum of Sweden.

Siete eae oida rine alse aaee | Le

MB ISte ETT AOCOLON DINGS a.m Weds cots oad bie aon ae tiem etna eed dlta sc bucceeye 2
West Africa: Dr. Chatard.
Culver, DOW, 12 aITOWS.<<. <<<. -2-- =~ 5-2 625-55 Se ILE Dey See = Res 14
PIO RM Ee a Seta ca see orem shte seers hae Sew Geet os coscce Ue sd cee eaten ca nseere i
Palbecarror andi SHOatine cece. Cecsce sae oe ie we ee sae oe eet ee cee mene Lees 3
Polynesia: Museum fiir Vélkerkunde.
RI RCM BN CLOUN sea os Se he es at eB Ace eekly cee uadioee specimen.. 1
Maoris, New Zealand: Mrs. M. A. Piper.
IMAC OIBOGU Yeoh ce nie tok haemo i AE os Le he oe eae aoe 1
Miniature Bible made of gum.. --- = cic Femmes foes as 1
Fiji: C. Heape.
00 PTE HIST YS ph A ati apne Sela ge et Be Oe ie Sea A eee eee EL 5
PEELED epee te et econo eats Seo sen oSe eoenes Poa e coe cm bess Soleo ee 55s,
Solomon Islands: Museum fiir Volkerkunde
CER DSi see Ss es a 3 I eR A oe I a Ey er pe 3
New Caledonia: C. Heape.
We tenn soon Sas Sack cm sees asses stieacia geba's nine Seals Sande eesa wade 1
Papuans, New Guinea: A. P. Goodwin.
PIM OHUBDIGIOS 3m hose eet Nate ojo 0) aid ches a)> m seein am iS e sue eee 2
PERO ie cia casa oa anata Sara ce oon are Ree Sida pieratm eit eniaisiei a) ciaiatces atte ee eon 53
RPS OWS = aise ae oo we eee alan tie os. a ica tino oui m toa See neta teres oe Sey ee
ROLdCOMIDNe bestia sc cece.. ste cee a. Pe ae LE Se ale et ere ae ene erent 1
PUREE LEI Re Ne Ss een ee ee ee ees osk cee speed ese ssa 4
MRGAEM es cles elo Soo he oS eee to. Se ee Nett Cee eee pean ma scsse al
PER OCOIOAQR Ere) os BAe cl ok o.oo waist aniaws coma doce ae eemee Seas Beeb ly
OE RE ES a Oe a ean eer eee ey. St)! ae ae eee 1
VOU NUM eis faeid isc a, enim o> hoon Jee coic dee hosse Cocoa meeeer own es 1
ALN POMNOAD OE ooo a0 Seesee Sos sies Ul celeste ore eee eee eset ee ae 1
MGMPMEMOLEINO) Tass Cotas as cece soe joe G/Jcie aj nso Sr ae ee iat lee 1
PRON ACROUN \SSs wie diss wsihise adcsusishiuse b eee tapos Meera ocieb ae sec 2
(IES OS SE ee ees a RNC Rp. Sens a Sige a ee ee 5
ARAN OU COVE tte a co cra cis sacs cima ce pu NaS ec s teem etion specimens... 2
Money —to Nery AMAL TINGS ONG SCE <.o5-- poseereoreinaae hee ees sehen sense 1
(UP Cee ce Bae Aa SRS ER Set ra ae a ee as 1
DER LS Tie Gay a og ene bei e RE epee (dec) ye) le = ae a ee rs 1
DRPBPRIR DUD RSet es a ha So alate ag tees Pa ees AoE e cinte Dow wa Sane n
UMN GORI CEN (OUUECOTMOLE), 3.256 ommhe Wee win ecb k Band esnse< wtenee sone 2
ae onal ita Vaid hes An eae diy nad atcnn Pope a naisw a samen 4
Se a aS kas panne ea UA eae onal enee dno bec nn vin'e ohih 1

-
120 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1834.

Papuans, New Guinea: A. P. Goodwin—Continued.
Bird-beak head-dress : « ..<.2c.eic ace sin oversee eiclare a clsiein sin alc mierel sie mee ier ete ieee ato 1
Basketa.-s2ccc can 2c e sce ees al ones inerinbaleelelt oni stele eee cha een tae = ee ae
Cinctures—palm-leaf fiber... .2-..°- s<2 .. -coce sene-s scales spe eer eee epee

WOOd CATVINOS.-- = coco. n2 eames oe mm ene = ee eins mini enes eno nn min ieinnislenie sa 4
NOt Dae soc one 2s seen snes cose eens sh om elelo mele ate We iam a ele omelet 1
ime boxes for betel-nut:chewers.. -< 5. 25-60. s 20 cse-8- on os esee eee eee epee ne
TGiMES!SPOONB,) WOOG ANE! DOME) ai emraepe meer sere ae la a ae ee late eee teei 12
Wooden iat ss acca cesta eee eee cme ae a a nals emelse me eter a eete ese te ott eee i
Ghindlevicinesaclll sje oles s soe teso dee mos Casas eco secnoncdasans o68 G2n4054s 8
Bamboo tube ot mabiverelae! ssc. c=. si= oe oa ae eee ete tet e lee elaey= ere re ete ee 1

Guttlofish-shelll. porgetele 232500 ¢6es0deicc canside sees aace ance Stee eaeaeteeeee ae
Shellarmiets: and bracelets 2.2522 o2cnjcoc chases cee eee e eae eects aie
Bamboo. tlutess cs. .<iics on ho shee ie wee ce ema cee eee e reese seen ee ee aera 1
11s) 1 61 :) a ri oe a eee eee ee MS arr we Aare Smee se Seen LL

In some of the entries given above, the numbers include several spec-
imens. Omitting pottery, antiquities, examples of textiles, fishing, and
navigation, the number of purely ethnological specimens received dur-
ing the year will amount to not far from four thousand.
II (4).—REPORT UPON THE SECTION OF AMERICAN ABORIGI-
NAL POTTERY OF THE U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM FOR 1884.

By WiLi1aM H. Houmes, Honorary Curator.

The greater part of the collection of aboriginal American pottery
has been placed in the northwest court of the Museum. A preliminary
classification has been made, and as soon as the necessary cases are
completed a representative series will be placed on exhibition.

The wall cases have been finished and are now occupied, chiefly,
by the very extensive collection of modern pueblo ware. The arrange-
ment is only temporary, however, as the final placing will not be at-
tempted until the more recent additions are catalogued. During the
year a large case has been constructed for the center of the hall, and
plans have been made for a number of smaller cases for the floor.

The year is remarkable for the great number of additions to the col-
lection, upwards of ten thousand earthen vessels having been acquired
and entered upon the books. These have been obtained through pur-
chase, exchange, and donation, as well as through the various agents
of the Museum.

The Bureau of Ethnology has contributed upwards of six thousand
pieces. These comprise the collections of James Stevenson from the
modern pueblos; of Victor Mindeleff, E. H. Nelson, and H. ©. Yarrow,
from the ancient ruins of New Mexico, Arizona, and Utah, and of Dr.
Cyrus Thomas, from the valley of the Mississippi.

A small collection of interesting fragments from the shell mounds of
Maryland was donated by Mr. J. D. McGuire, and a number of fugitive
pieces have come from various Southern States. An addition to the
Mexican collection, consisting of about one hundred pieces, mostly in
a fragmentary state, has been acquired, by donation, from the writer.

Perhaps the most unique and important acquisition of the year is
that of some three thousand vases from the ancient tombs of Chiriqui,
State of Colombia. This collection was secured from J.C. McNeil, the
collector. An extremely valuable collection from Ancon, Peru, has
been secured through the agency of Dr. Wiliam H. Jones.

In cataloguing and arranging the collection the curator has been as-
sisted by Mr. Henry Waltherand Mr. William H. Barbour. The ordinary

121
122 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884.

entry in the records is generally supplemented by a drawing of the
specimen. As many of the vases reach the Museum in a fragmentary
state, it is found desirable to have them carefully restored. In this
work Mr. Walther is extremely skillful. Care is taken that such res-
torations do not, in any way, falsify the original characters of the ves-
sel.

The curator has been engaged during the year in the study of por-
tions of the collection, first, for the purpose of securing the best pos-
sible classification of the material for Museum purposes, and second,
with the view of publishing a monograph upon the aboriginal pottery of
America. One paper has been prepared on the ‘* Pottery of the An-
cient Pueblos,” and another upon the ‘“ Ancient Ware of the Middle
Missisippi Valley.” They are supplemented by a third paper upon the
‘Origin of form and ornament in the Ceramic Art.” These papers will
appear in the Fourth Annual Report of the Bureau of Ethnology. In
addition, a short study of the ceramic products of a section exposed in
the city of Mexico has been made. This will appear in the proceedings
of the Anthropological Society of Washington. ‘

It will be seen that the collection, already an extremely valuable one,
promises in the near future to be worthy of a national museum, but
there are many gaps that must be filled up before it can be considered
satisfactory to students of American archeology. The collections
from all parts of Mexico and the northern Central American states
need especial attention. In South American material we are still far
behind the museums of Europe.

a

ee a
I1].—REPORT UPON THE DEPARTMENT OF ANTIQUITIES IN THE
U. 8. NATIONAL MUSEUM FOR 1884,

By CHARLES Rau, Curator.

IMPORTANT ACCESSIONS.

John J. McLean, Cape Mendocino, Humboldt County, California.—Col-
lection from shell-heaps near Cape Mendocino: Stone chips and flakes,
rude and leaf-shaped implements, scrapers, rude arrow-heads, shells of
different species (all determined), plates of Cryptochiton Stelleré and of
Chiton (species undetermined), echinus-shell, and teeth of canine ani-
mals.

R. EB. C. Stearns, United States National Museum.—Collections received
at different times during the year: Mortars and pestles from Placer
County, California; 9 species of shells from shell-heaps at Rocky Point
and Fort Brooke, Tampa Bay, and from Way Keys (one of the Cedar
Keys group of islands), Florida; 8 casts of a stone pestle (metamorphic
sandstone), found on Santa Cruz Island, California; 8 casts of a stone
pestle found at an elevation of 1,500 feet, near Point Sal, Santa Barbara
County, California, and 7 casts of a serpentine sinker, found on the
university grounds at Berkeley, Alameda County, California; flakes,
rude and leaf-shaped implements, scrapers, cutters, and arrow-heads,
all of obsidian, also pestles, mortars, and fruit-crushers, from Howell
Mountain, Napa County, California; cast of a carved ceremonial weapon,
original found at Saint Helen, Columbia County, Oregon; cast of a
stone dish with handle, found deeply imbedded in auriferous gravel
near Oregon Bar, North Fork of American River, Placer County, Cali-
fornia, and casts of 2 clay images found in Aztec graves, while con-
structing water-works at Medellin, Vera Cruz, Mexico.

W. W. Evans, New Rochelle, Westchester County, New York.—Small
collection of stone arrow-heads, bone, copper, and shell fish-hooks, a
warked belemnite (?), and a stone bead from Chili, South America.

J.E. Gere, Riceville, Washington County, Wisconsin.—Collection of sténe
Scrapers, cutting-tools, arrow and spear heads, celts, &c., from the vicin-
ity of Riceville.

Lieut. G. M. Wheeler, United States Geographical Surveys.—Specimens
collected by Dr. H. C. Yarrow, Dr. J. T. Rothrock, and Mr. H. W. Hen-
shaw in June and July, 1875, from graves at Dos Pueblos and La Patera,

123
124 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884.

Santa Barbara County, California: Chips and flakes, rude chipped im-
plements, arrow and spear. heads (the latter very fine), scrapers, pestles,
grinding-stones, mortars, vessels, baking-stones, tubes, pipes (plain and
ornamented), beads and other ornaments of stone, Haliotis-shells show-
ing use as utensils (one very large), shell beads, discs (pierced), fish-
hooks and ornaments, a copper bead and glass and enamel] beads of
European manufacture, remains of matting and bags, soap-root brushes
with handles of asphaltum, handles made of asphaltum and ornamented
with shells, red paint cut in various shapes, an iron axe, and several
knife-blades, brass bell-tongues, china cups and a saucer.

Army Medical Museum, Washington, D. C.—Collection embracing
grooved stone mauls and axes, a celt, rubbing-stones, a metate (Navajo),
an arrow-shaft grinder, a small stone mortar, shell beads, and several
bone implements from Arizona and Dakota Territories ; also a fine bird-
shaped object of stone from Sackett’s Harbor, New York.

P. L. Jouy, Yokohama, Japan.—Collection of rude chipped imple-
ments and fragments of polished celts from Yokohama, rude chipped
implements found 20 miles from Tokio, and fragments of bones and
shells from the shell-heaps at Omori.

Dr. G. B. Lartigue, Blackville, Barnwell County, South Carolina.—A
pierced ceremonial object (very fine), found near Blackville.

Dr.C. A. White, United States National Museum, and Dr. J. A. White,
Oregon City, Oregon.—A collection of 601 small arrow-heads of chalcedony,
jasper, obsidian, &c., from two points on the east bank of the Willa-
mette River; one a mile above and the other amile below Oregon
City. They were exposed by the washing and caving of the river-bank.

Dr. W. W. Oglesby, Fossil, Wasco County, Oregon.—A very fine sword-
shaped stone club, found imbedded in the roots of a fir-tree (Supposed
to be 300 years old), near Mary’s Park, Wasco County.

A. Fairhurst, Lexington, Kentucky.—Collection from the vicinity of
Lexington : Rude and leaf-shaped implements, cutting-tools, perforators,
arrow and spear-heads, a very fine celt of greenish jasper (chipped and
polished), polished celts, a celt-gouge of syenite (the best object of this
class thus far acquired), a hematite muller, a discoidal stone, a ceremo-
nial object (partly drilled), and a pipe.

Prof. S. F. Baird.—Collection from shell-heaps on the Bay of Fundy:
Chips and flakes of flint, quartzite, lydite, &c., rude arrow-heads, frag-
ments of pottery, vertebre and spines of fishes, bones of birds, bones
and teeth of the seal, beaver, deer, caribou, moose, mink, otter, black
bear, and dog; bones split for the extraction of the marrow, and shells
(3 species, determined), of which the heaps are composed. This collec-
tion is referred to in “ Preceedings of the United States National Mu-
seum,” vol. 4, p. 292.

B. F. Koons, Mansfield, Tolland County, Connecticut.—Square slab of
granite with mortar-cavity, cut from rock in situ, near Mansfield. A
very interesting piece.

REPORT OF DEPARTMENT OF ANTIQUITIES. 125

W. M. Clark, Nashville, Tennessee.—Collection from different locali-
ties in Tennessee: Rude chipped implements, leaf-shaped implements
(one of obsidian, very fine), scrapers, arrow and spear-heads, chipped
celt-gouge with polished cutting edge, large chipped digging-tools, pit-
ted stones, a grinding-stone (a good specimen), polished celts, grooved
axes, pestles, a cylindrical crushipg-implement, a hematite sinker, pierced
tablets, carved stone pipes (some very good), a clay pipe, fragments of
large shells (Buscycon perversum), shell beads, encrinites, clay vessels
(3 of them entire), fragments of pottery, and 3 human skulls, with frag-
ments of jaws.

R. R. Smith, Tulip, Dallas County, Arkansas.—Twelve arrow-heads of
exquisite workmanship, from Dallas County, and a collection of leaf-
shaped implements, cutting-tools, scrapers, perforators, arrow and spear-
heads, and celts from the vicinity of Tulip Creek, 3 miles west of Tulip.
The specimens are surface-finds, and the place where they were found
was once a large camping-ground.

C. M. Smith, New Madison, Darke County, Ohio—Collection from
Flint Ridge, Licking County, Ohio: Hammer-stones of flint, granite,
quartzite, &c, flint cores, flakes, rude and leaf-shaped implements,
scrapers, cutting-tools, and arrow-heads. The cores and flakes are ex-
ceptionally fine.

Dr. E. H. Davis, New York, N.Y.—Collection of plaster molds for re-
producing the mound-pipes collected by Messrs. Squier and Davis during
their Ohio survey, and various other archeological objects belonging to
the Davis collection now in the Blackmore Museum at Salisbury, Eng-
land. The molds are a valuable acquisition, as complete sets of casts
of the pipes, &c., can now be made.

Robert Ridgway, United States National Musewm.—Two arrow-heads
from Monteur’s Pond, 10 miles east of Vincennes, Indiana. In these
arrow-heads the edges are beveled on opposite sides. They are per-
haps the best specimens of the kind in the collection.

Statement of character of routine work in arranging and classifying the
collections, and preparing the exhibition and study series.

The arranging, classifying, and preparing for exhibition of the collee-
tions received has been continued in accordance with the plan indicated
in my annual report for 1883. Practically there are but three classes
or series of specimens entered in this department: 1. Exhibition and
study series, which embraces all good specimens. 2. Duplicates, uti)-
ized for exchange. 3. Storage, broken stone specimens, and other frag-
ments of no value whatever.

List of special collections which have been placed on exhibition during
the year.

Collection from Alaska: C. L. McKay.
Collection from shell-heaps, Cape Mendocino, Humboldt County, Cali-
fornia: John J? McLean.
126 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884.

Collection from Riceville, Washington County, Wisconsin: J. BE.
Gere.

Collection from Dos Pueblos and La Patera, Santa Barbara County,
California: Lieut. G. M. Wheeler.

Collection from Tennessee: W. M. Clark.

Collection from Flint Ridge, Licking County, Ohio: C. M. Smith.

The work of arranging collections for exhibition has been unavoida-
bly delayed for the past few months by reason of the time required for
preparing specimens for the New Orleans Exhibition. The chipped
series of North American stone implements designed for the Exhibi-
tion was finally arranged in sixteen trays, and the same delivered to
Mr. C. A. Stewart for shipment. The ground or polished series will
soon be ready.

Collections and single specimens sent as exchanges during the year.

A cast of a lydite chisel (original from Saint Lawrence County, New
York), sent to M. Felix Gaillard, Plouharnel, Morbihan, France.

A collection of 23 North American stone implements, sent to Mr.
Ernest Schernikow, No. 16 Saint Mark’s Place, New York.

A cast of a stone (jadeite ?) celt and handle in one piece, sent to Dr.
RK. T. Hamy, No. 40 Rue de Lubeck, Paris, France.

A collection of 355 North yoann stone relics, sent to Mr. see
Wilson, United States consul, Nice, France.

& sae collection of seas implements, &c., and the relics obtained
in the course of several mound-explorations made under the direction of
the Bureau of Ethnology have been placed in charge of this department.
For want of time, no systematic arrangement has thus far been made.
The specimens from each mound have been kept together, and the work
of classifying the rest of the collection (surface-tinds, &c.) will be com-
menced immediately. A large number of duplicate specimens can be
used for exchange.

Review of researches prosecuted upon material belonging to the department.

The hall containing the antiquities of the United States National Mu-
seum has been visited by many persons, who manifested their interest in
archeology by questions addressed to myself and to my assistant. Some
of the visitors took notes and made sketches of specimens; but I am un-
able to state in what manner the information acquired by them .was
utilized. Self-instruction may have been the chief motive in most cases.
I had myself constant recourse to the collection in the preparation of
my work on prehistoric fishing in Europe and North America, which
contains designs and descriptions of a large number of specimens on
exhibition in the hall. This work has taken up all my time not devoted
to routine business.

ee ee ee
REPORT OF DEPARTMENT OF ANTIQUITIES. ba

Present state of the collection.
NUMBER OF SPECIMENS.

Exhibition and study series...--..-.--. Se ee Pe) eee 36, 730

Duplicates, 8,902-380 (see exchanges) .... ....-. coe eoneee none ------ 22+ +o ee 8, 522
ge EROS Te ee tS AGN ec «RIE COPY Td API Ae ee 45, 252

ACCESSIONS DURING THE YEAR 1884,

PEeENTOM TANG SUC Y RCLICS < coco! scac ss aces ces hase Sane Mes wee ee eterno a ceeas 3, 956
Re ean a bw ans somes hand sy Shae woes ome -aeteaeeleme cams a9 ea lee 1,185
IN a2. foe 5 1 decd es Renee Rees 5, 141

Recommendations and general remarks.

In this year, as in preceding ones, I have endeavored to carry on the
dualistic system adopted in arranging the antiquities of this coun'ry.

(1) There is a large collection (mostly exhibited in flat cases) which
consists of relics of chipped and ground stone, of copper, bone, horn,
shell, clay, and, to a small extent, of wood. These objects huve been
grouped according to material, and then classed under such denomina-
tions as their forms suggested. Similarity of shape afforded the prin-
cipal guidance in arranging these specimens. This arrangement offers
to the intelligent visitor an opportunity to take in atone glance, as it
were, the whole culture of the prehistoric North American, as far as it
can be represented by tangible tokens. To this general collection many
valuable specimens have been added this year.

(2) There are special collections composed of North American articles
found in one locality—a mound, grave, artificial shell-deposit, or district.
It will be my endeavor to increase the number of these special collee-
tions, in order to show the difference in the mechanical acquirements of
the people formerly inhabiting the various parts of this country. Six
of such collections have been put up in the course of this year—as stated
in section 2 of this report—imost conspicuous among them being the
large and fine series of antiquities collected during Lieut. George M.
Wheeler’s geographical survey west of the 100th meridian.

The collections thus far mentioned are from portions of this continent
north of Mexico. There are, however, separately exhibited, valuable
archeological collections from Mexico, Central America, South America,
Japan, &c., and a very good representative series of prehistoric antiqui-
ties from Europe.
IV.—REPORT UPON THE DEPARTMENT OF MAMMALS OF THE
U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM FOR 1884.

By FREDERICK W. TRUE, Curator.

IMPORTANT ADDITIONS DURING THE YEAR 13884,

In number, variety, and importance, the accessions of the past year
have been fully equal to those of earlier periods. A few specimens of
species previously unknown to science were received, but the chief gain
has been in species new to the collections, specimens representing new
variations of species acquired in the past years, or serving to extend
our knowledge of their geographical range, and specimens suitable to
replace those which have become faded and otherwise unsightly through
long service in the exhibition halls.

In enlarging the exhibition series, much aid has been received from
the proprietors of zoological gardens and menageries and from dealers
in live animals. The number of species received from these sources
during the year was 38, including several rare and peculiar forms. Not
less assistance has been received from the Signal Bureau, the U. 8.
Life-Saving and Light-House Services, the U.S. Fish Commission, and
other bureaus of the Government, the attachés of which are more or less
engaged in field-work. The negotiations of the American commissioner
to the London Fisheries Exhibition and of the curator of the depart-
ment with the authorities of certain European museums have led to
the revival of the system of exchanges, which has always proved bene-
ficial.

In addition, collections of greater or less magnitude have been re-
ceived from about fifty private individuals and corporations. The
specimens purchased for the New Orleans Exhibition may properly be
mentioned in this connection, as they will eventually be incorporated
in the collections of the department. (For complete list of accessions
see page 138.)

TERRESTRIAL MAMMALS.

United States —Two new species, each representing a new genus, have
been added to the mammalian fauna of the United States during the
year. The first of these, a muskrat-like form, was described by the cu-

S. Mis. 33, pt. 2——9 129
130 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884.

rator under the name of Neofiber Alleni,* from a single specimen col-
lected by William Wittfeld, Esq., at Georgiana, Fla. The second new
species, a Shrew, was described by Dr. Merriam under the name Ato-
phyrax Bendireit. The type of this species is not in the Museum. An-
other apparent addition to the fauna is the Brazlian bat, known as Ves-
pertilio arsinoé, a specimen of which was sent to the Museum from Ban-
ner, Kans., by Mr. A. B. Baker.

The Museum purchased from the same gentleman a pair of extraor-
dinarily large specimens of Ord’s pocket-mouse, Dipodomys Phillipsit
Ordii, for exhibition at New Orleans. Mr. Lewis Sells presented an
exceedingly fine puma, Felis concolor, which was mounted in the best
manner by the chief taxidermist, and was also sent to the New Orleans
Exhibition. Skins of a red lynx, peccary, mountain sheep, and beaver,
and one or two smaller forms were purchased from Mr. H. A. Ward
for exhibition at the same place, the collection being found wanting in
mountable specimens of these animals.

The most important faunal collections have been those of Mr. C. H.
Townsend, from California, and Mr. E. W. Nelson, from Arizona. The
former collection includes fresh specimens of nearly all the important
terrestrial mammals of California and aquatic species as well. Worthy
of special mention is an extensive series of antlers of the Columbian
deer, Cariacus columbianus, showing numerous curious variations. Mr.
Nelson’s collection consists mostly of rodents and other small forms,
but he has recently been in quest of the large species.

British America and Alaska.—The officers of the Signal Bureau sta-
tioned at Point Barrow sent, in connection with other specimens, a large
series of skins of the lemmings, Cuniculus torquatus and Myodes obensis.
From British America the most important accession is the collection of
skins and skeletons made by Mr. Lucien M. Turner in the vicinity of Hud-
son’s Bay. The series included two very fine skins of the Polar hare,
Lepus timidus, one of which was sent to the New Orleans Exhibition.

Central America and the West Indies.—Mr. Benedict, naturalist of the
U.S. Fish Commission steamship Albatross, while in the West Indies,
secured after much labor a number of specimens of the so-called
fishing bat, Noctilio leporinus, var. mastivus, and of the common arti-
beus, A. perspicillatus. The authorities of the British Museum pre-
sented a series of specimens of West Indian and Central American bats,
representing species previously wanting in our collections.

The department has also received from Mr. Zeledon a number of
Costa Rican mammals, including a specimen of Felis yaguarundi, from
which a skeleton will be prepared.

Other parts of the world.—As already stated, the number of exotic
mammals received during the year has been per large, owing princi-
pally to the great number of donations from dealers in live animals and

— =

* Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., VII, July 29, 1884, pp. 170, 171.
+ Trans. Linn. Soc. New York, II, 1884.
REPORT OF DEPARTMENT OF MAMMALS. 13t

proprietors of menageries and zoological gardens. Messrs. Barnum,
Bailey & Hutchinson, Messrs. C. and E. Reiche, Mr. W. A. Conklin
(superintendent of the Central Park Menagerie, New York), aud the
authorities of the Dime Museum, Washington, have together presented
no less than 27 monkeys. The first-named gentlemen have also sent
several other important animals, such as an eland, a harnessed antelope,
a leopard, a peceary, and two hunting-leopards. Mr. Conklin sent, in
addition to the monkeys, a specimen of the curious Jemur, Stenops tardi-
gradus, a second lemur, a kangaroo, an Egyptian jumping-mouse, a
mongoose, a fruit-eating bat, and a young hog-deer. Mr. Lewis Sells,
of Cincinnati, presented, in addition to the puma mentioned on page 130,
a fine wart-hog and a baboon.

Surgeon-Major Dobson, of Netley, England, in consideration for some
American insectivores sent him for dissection, has presented a collec-
tion of Asiatic and European bats and insectivores. In the collection
made by Mr. P. L. Jouy in Japan were found a number of the char-
acteristic mammals of those islands. Dr. Leonhard Stejneger, during
his visit to Eastern Siberia, procured a very fine series of skulls of the
brown bear, U. arctos, and two skins of the Siberian sheep, O. nivicolea.
His collections of aquatic mammals will be mentioned in another place
(see below). While in London the curator purchased a small collection
of exotic mammals, including a skin of Galidia olivacea, and a skull of
the rare lemur, Propithecus holomelas. Other similar specimens were
purchased frow Mr. H. A. Ward, of Rochester, among them a specimen
of Riippell’s monkey (Guereza Riippelli), a civet cat, and a llama.

AQUATIC MAMMALS.

Seals.—A number of important pinnipeds were received during the
year. The last boxes of specimens collected by Dr. Leonhard Stejneger
in Bering Island contained a very large series of skulls of Steller’s
sea-lion, Humetopias Stelleri, the harbor seal, P. vitulina, &c., and, in
addition, a skull of the Pacific walrus.

Mr. C. H. Townsend has sent specimens of the pinnipeds of the Cali-
fornian coast, notably skeletons and skins of the California sea-lion,
Zalophus californianus. Four skeletons of the harp seal were purchased
from a Newfoundland whaler, through Dr. C. H. Merriam; and from
Captain Longstreet, of the life-saving station at Manisquan, N. J., was
received a fresh specimen of Phoca vitulina.

Cetaceans.—The year has been a notable one so far as cetaceans are
concerned. Specimens have been received from about ten different
sources. Of the greatest value are the skulls of ziphioid whales col-
lected by Dr. Stejneger in Bering Island, and representing three genera,
Berardius, Ziphius, and Mesoplodon. A skull of Berardius from New
Zealand was purchased from Mr. Ward, of Rochester, in order that the
proper comparisons might be made. The Zoological Museum of Oxford
University, through Professor Moseley, presented a cast of the beak
132 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884.

and teeth of the remarkable ziphioid known as Mesoplodon Layardii.
Not less interesting are the casts of the head type-skins of Prodel-
phinus obscurus and Cephalorhynchus Heavisidei presented by the British
Museum through Dr. Giinther. Two other European institutions, the
Royal College of Surgeons (Prof. W. H. Flower) and the Cambridge Uni-
versity Zoological Museum (Mr. John W. Clarke) presented specimens of
cetacea, namely, skeletons of the blackfish and common bottle-nosed
dolphin. The U.S. Fish Commission captured several porpoises, and
presented in addition the skull of the large fin-back whale (Balenop-
tera). The curator was also instructed to investigate the porpoise
fisheries of Hatteras and Cape May, and trom each locality brought
skeletons of the bottle-nosed dolphin, Tursiops tursio. He also pur-
_chased in Europe and presented to the Museum the skulls of three im-
portant species of the Delphinida.

Sirenians.—The chief addition to the specimens representing this
order was a Skeleton of a very large Florida manatee.

DOMESTIC ANIMALS.

The curator has long had in view the assembling of a series of mounted
skins and skeletons of the different races of the dog and other domestic
animals. Considerable material has already accumulated, and during
the year four dogs were added to the series. These were a St. Ber-
nard dog from Messrs. Jacobs (of Washington), a Laverack setter from
Mr. Schneider (of Washington), a Chinese hairless dog from Mr. Buchs-
baum (of Washington), and an Eskimo dog from the Greely Relief

Expedition.
‘ ROUTINE WORK.

Work upon the general collection of the department (both the ex-
hibition and study series) suffered almost complete cessation, from
two very important causes. The curator was given permission to pur-
sue certain studies in Europe during the winter of 1883-84, and did not
return to Washington until May. Very soon after his return the ap-
propriations for the New Orleans Exhibition were made by Congress,
and this department, together with others in the Museum, entered upon
the work of preparing a series of specimens worthy of exhibition at
that exposition. This work practically occupied the attention of the
entire staff of the department until the close of the year. Time was
found, however, for the performance of a few details of regular work,
and these I will enumerate before entering upon a discussion of the
work performed in connection with the New Orleans Exposition.

WORK IN THE EXHIBITION HALLS.

During the absence of the curator, the question of hanging whale-
skeletons and other similar specimens was settled favorably, and in
consequence the specimens of the hump-back and fin-back whales,
which had encumbered the floor in the east-south range, were suspended

REPORT OF DEPARTMENT OF MAMMALS. 133

from the ceiling. The large wall-case of the north side of the same
range was completed early in the year and filled with such specimens
as were ready. <A considerable number of skeletons of the larger
ruminants proved too large to be accommodated in this case, and were
therefore placed temporarily upon the tops of certain of the table-cases.
At the same time a large terraced base was planned for the south side
of the range which should ultimately receive them. This stand has
been very recently completed, and will be occupied early in 1885.

Almost no changes have taken place in the hall devoted to mounted
mammals, except the return of certain seals exhibited at the London
Fisheries Exhibition in 1883, and the removal of others intended for the
New Orleans Exhibition. The cast of the ziphioid whale captured on
the coast of New Jersey in 1883 has been completed, and is suspended
from the ceiling on the east side of the hall. The exhibition series has
been several times carefully examined to preserve it against destruction
by insects.

WORK UPON THE STUDY SERIES.

The study series both of skins and bones have also been carefully
examined to the same end. The collection of alcoholic bats was iden-
tified throughout.

This small amount of progress is not at all commensurate with the
desires of the curator, but it was impracticable to do more under the
cireumstances.

The curator has received no extra assistance in the office during the
year. Mr. W. G. Stimpson has acted at once in the capacity of general
assistant, copyist, and messenger, performing these multiform duties
very faithfully and satisfactorily. The force of taxidermists and osteo-
logical preparators was decidedly increased, the former in connection
with the New Orleans Exhibition, as will be presently noted. Mr.
Hornaday and Mr. Lucas remain in charge of this work as heretofore,
under the direction of the curator. More or less work has been done
for the department, as in former years, by Messrs. Joseph and William
Palmer.

During the absence of the Assistant Director in the summer, the cura-
tor was called upon to act in his stead. He has not been relieved of
the care of the library, which occupies much time.

THE NEW ORLEANS EXPOSITION.

Even before money had been appropriated for this exposition, plans
for a display of the mammalia were under discussion. These were at
first of a very comprehensive character. It was intended that the en-
tire existing mammalian fauna of North America from the Isthmus of
Panama northward should be exhibited species by species, and both by
skins or casts and skeletons, and that some of the more important ex-
tinct fauna should be restored. This plan necessarily suffered much
134 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884.

modification after a short time, when it was found that neither money,
time, nor materials sufficient to assemble such a collection before the
opening of the exposition were at command.

With the intention, however, of having every important species rep-
resented, the curator visited the establishments of all the principal deal-
ers in natural-history material, and the collection of duplicates in the
Museum was also drawn upon very largely. It was found that only a
very small number of species were anywhere on sale, and that the Mu-
seum must rely upon its own resources. This it was able to do to a very
considerable extent, although it was found necessary to withdraw some
mounted specimens from the regular exhibition series, a proceeding
which the curator carried out with great reluctance.

The force of taxidermists was raised to five, and, in addition, many
small species were sent to Mr. F. S. Webster. The specimens were di-
vided by the chief taxidermist among his assistants, and the work was
done carefully, thoroughly, and in time. Toward the end of fall lack of
funds caused a reduction of the force to three, which somewhat embar-
rassed the work.

During the summer the taxidermists together mounted 68 specimens,
including several large forms, such as a bison, puma, jaguar, beaver,
coyote, &c., which occupied necessarily a great amount of time. In
addition to these, 81 specimens were mounted by Mr. Webster and his
assistants, making in all 149 specimens. A few in each lot were not
sent, while on the other hand 62 specimens were taken from the regular
series of the Museum. The total number of specimens exhibited was
160, representing 150 species and varieties. The series includes all the
North American ruminants except the musk-ox; all the important car-
nivores, both aquatic and terrestrial (especially the fur-bearing family,
Mustelide); all the native beneficial or noxious rodents ; representative
species of porpoises; the manatees; and the more characteristic monkeys,
sloths, bats, and insectivores. In addition a series intended to repre-
sent all the orders of the class mammalia was prepared.

The collection was exhibited in four large cases, except the ruminants,
for which a separate, large, terraced stand was provided. The first case
contained the cats, dogs, bears, &c.; the second the seals and whales;
the third the monkeys, weasels, bats, and insectivores and the first
group of rodents; the fourth, the remainder of the rodents, the eden-
tates, and opossums, and the series representing the orders of mam-
malia. The large terraced stand, as already stated, supported only the
ruminants.

It will be observed that this collection, although considerably smaller
in point of number of specimens than that exhibited at the Centennial
Exposition, still contained representatives of almost the same number of
species.

In addition to the specimens already mentioned, another small series
was sent to New Orleans, representing the character of work done in
REPORT OF DEPARTMENT OF MAMMALS. 135

connection with the section of osteology. It was at first intended that
the different species of mammals should be as well represented by skel-
etons as by mounted skins, but this plan was in the end found imprac-
ticable and was finally abandoned.

Although the performance of so considerable amount of work for a
special purpose has kept the regular work of the department in abey-
ance, it is hoped that the Museum may benefit by it ultimately, both by
the addition of the mounted specimens to its exhibition series and on
account of the experience gained by the taxidermists in.rapid work.

INVESTIGATIONS PROSECUTED DURING THE YEAR 1884.

During the winter of 1883 and the spring of 1884 the curator was
_ engaged in studies upon the cetacea in the European museums. Find-
ing it very difficult to identify the material which has accumulated in
the department of mammals, he conceived the idea of examining for
himself the types of Gray and other writers, which are still extant in
the museums of Europe. With this intent, and also for the purpose of
studying certain details of museum installation, he visited the following
establishments: Royal College of Surgeons, London; British Museum
of Natural History, London; University Zoological Museum, Cambridge;
University Zoological Museum, Oxford; Norwich Museum; Public
Museum of Science and Art, Liverpool; Museum of Art and Industry,
Edinburgh; Museum d’Histoire Naturelle, Paris; Zoological Museum,
Leyden, and a number of less important institutions. The types of
toothed cetaceans of Gray, Flower, Cuvier, Gervais, Schlegel, and
others were examined and measured. The report upon this investiga-
tion is unfortunately still unpublished, owing to the pressure of other
work, but it is the intention of the curator that it shall be finished and
sent to the printer at an early date.

These studies are intended as a basis for a monograph of the toothed
whales of North America, preparations for which are already well
advanced. The collection of cetacea in the National Museum is unques-
tionably the finest in America, and includes a large number of type-
specimens. The work can therefore be partially completed without ref-
erence to other collections, although the latter must in the end be con-
sulted.

The necessary work upon the cetacea is so great that the curator
scarcely hopes to be able to extend his researches upon the mammalia in
other directions for the present.

In addition to the insectivores sent to Dr. G. I. Dobson, of a
England, in 1883, a large number of shrews have been confided to his
care for comparison with the great series already in his hands. The
family Soricide will be treated of in the third and concluding part of
his work upon the insectivores, the first two sections of which have
already appeared.
136 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884.

Dr. Harrison Allen, of Philadelphia, still continues in possession of
® portion of the Smithsonian collection of Chiroptera, for use in his
studies upon the organs of locomotion in this group. Certain other
specimens of bats were temporarily loaned to Mr. F. W. Cragin, of
Manhattan, Kansas, who is engaged in work upon the species native to
that State.

With the completion of the work upon the cetacea and insectivores
of North America now in progress, the time will be ripe for the publi-
cation of an encyclopedic systematic work upon the entire mammalian
fauna of North America, similar to that published by Professor Baird
in 1859. After such a work shall have been published attention will
doubtless be turned toward the anatomy, physiology, and embryology
of the different species, concerning which very little has thus far been
written.

Papers published in 1884 by the curator and by others connected
with the department, or upon the basis of material belonging to the de-
partment, amount to twelve, and are referred to in the bibliography
under True, Elliott, and Nelson.

PRESENT CONDITION OF THE COLLECTION.

The collection of mammals can at present be divided into but two
series, namely, (1) the exhibition series, and (2) the stored or duplicate
series.

The exhibition series—The number of mounted skins on exhibition
at the close of 1883 and 1884, respectively, was as follows: On exhibi-
tion at the close of 1888, 715; on exhibition at the close of 1884, 646.

It will appear somewhat surprising at first that at the end of a new
year’s work by the taxidermists the number of specimens on exhibi-
tion should be less than previously. The reason of this becomes very
obvious, however, when it is remembered that not only the specimens
mounted during the year were sent to New Orleans, but, in addition,
some that had previously been on exhibition in the hall. If we add to
the number given above, the specimens sent to New Orleans and those
now in the taxidermists’ shops in a nearly completed state the total
reaches 864, which represents a somewhat less number than will be on
exhibition in July, 1885, but many more than were displayed at the
close of 1883.

Duplicate series.—To gain an idea of the present size of this series
it is only necessary to add to the figures given in last year’s report the
number of accessions for 1884, since no distributions have been made.
The totals are as follows:

Skins and alcoholic specimens, 1884 ...........-------+-- ee 4,870
Skeletons and skulls, 1884"... 2002. 22 2, VA Nee 4, 087

REPORT OF DEPARTMENT OF MAMMALS. 137

The total number of specimens in the collection is, therefore, as fol-
lows:

maine. and. Bleoholic APCCIMENS 9... -:< des ne:piee Aine enisies nies tee ts = 5, 694
Skulls and skeletons ........ VET Eee Vee SURE UE CPN ne Cer Eg 4, 314
~ 2 TERaa P aie 8 to oa 9, 908

Although no distributions have been made during the year, a consid-
erable number of specimens have been temporarily loaned for study.
These are as follows:

To Dr. G. E. Dobson, Netley, England..... 35 specimens = 35 species
To F. W. Cragin, Manhattan, Kans........ 17 specimens = 17 species
To Godman & Salvin, London, England.... 16 specimens = 16 species

MSAD 5 tse as: ct da erckin aeteae oehesiae 68 specimens = 68 species

RECOMMENDATIONS AND GENERAL REMARKS.

In the exhibition series the original idea of having the North Ameri-
can fauna exhaustively represented is still adhered to; but, in addition,
every effort is being made to procure as many representative exotic
forms as possible.

During the coming year the taxidermists will be engaged in mount-
ing the skins now in bath, beginning with the primates and following
through each lower order. By this plan the curator is saved a great
amount of labor in identifying and labeling the specimens, since it
enables him to deal with one branch of the literature at a time. It also
facilitates the work of estimating the number of new cases of each style
needed, and makes the growth of the collection apparent.

Some provision must shortly be made for the protection of the larger
species, of which the Museum possesses some very fine and also unique
specimens. It is perhaps not too much to say that no museum in the
world has yet successfully solved the problem of proper casing for the
large mammalia, and it is evident, therefore, that a great amount of
thought must be bestowed upon the subject if this Museum is to sneceed
where others have failed.

During the coming year the organization of the Department of Com-
parative Anatomy will probably be effected. A large number of speci-
mens of the viscera of mammals have been accumulated, in the hope
that they may be of service in the formation of a comparative organo-
logical collection.

By a change in the location of the offices of the department, the
curator hopes to be able to place a reference series, especially of the North
American mammalia, where it will be more readily accessible than hith-
erto. In the present cramped condition neither books nor specimens
can be consulted without great inconvenience and loss of time.
138 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884.

LIST OF ACCESSIONS FOR 1884.

Mr. 8. G. Abbie, Brownsville, Me. Skeleton of a fisher (Mustela Pen-
nantit), four skeletons of the red fox (Vulpes fulvus), and two skele-
tons of the Canadian porcupine (Hrethrizon dorsatus dorsatus).

Mr. S. F. Adams, Beadle County, Dakota. A shrew in alcohol (Sorez sp.).

General O. E. Babcock, U. S. A. Skin of a bat.

Mr. A. B. Baker, Banner, Kans. A collection of skins from Kansas and
New Mexico, embracing five prairie dogs (Cynomys ludovicianus), two
kangaroo rats (Dipodomys Phillipsi Phillipst), one line-tailed spermo-
phile (Spermophilus 13-lineatus), one harvest mouse (Hesperomys leu-
copus), and one bat in alcohol (? Vespertilio arsinoé). (Purchased.)

Messrs. Barnum, Bailey & Hutchinson, Bridgeport, Conn. Eleven mon-
keys, one eland (Oreas canna), one harnessed antelope (Tragelaphus
scripta), one peccary (Dicotyles tajacu), one leopard (Felis pardus), and
one hunting-leopard (Cynelurus jubata).

Mr. Joseph H. Batby, Upper Amazon, Brazil. A monkey (Pithecia sp.)
skin.

Capt. Charles Bendire, U. 8S. A. A kangaroo rat (Dipodomys Phillipsi),
from Fort Walla Walla, Wash.

british Museum Natural History, London, England. A collection of ten
bats in alcohol; casts of the heads of the type specimens of Prodel-
phinus obscurus and Cephalorhynchus Heavisidei.

Mr. H. Buchsbaum, Washington, D. C. Skeleton of a young Chinese
hairless dog.

Mr. R. Ellsworth Call, Washington, D. C. A bat in alcohol.

Cambridge University Zoological Museum, Cambridge, England. Skele-
ton of a bottle-nosed dolphin (Tursiops tursio).

Cape May Porpoise Fishing Company, Cape May, N. J. Skeleton of a
bottle-nosed dolphin (Tursiops tursio).

Mr. J. 0. Catlin, Ravenna, Ohio. A nest of the red squirrel (Sciwrus
hudsonius hudsonius).

Prof. J. W. Chickering, Deaf and Dumb Asylum, Washington, D.C. Ex-
ample of a monstrous hog.

Prof. F. W. Clarke, U. 8. National Museum, Washington, D. C. A hair-
ball from the stomach of an ox.

Capt. J. W. Collins, U. 8. Fish Commission. Skull of a reindeer (Ran-
ger tarandus) from Holsteinberg, Greenland. (Purchased.)

Mr. W. A. Conklin, superintendent, Central Park Menagerie, New York,
NV. ¥. Seven monkeys, two lemurs, oue jumping-mouse (Dipus sp.),
one fruit-eating bat (Pteropus sp.), one civet cat ( Viverra civetta), one
Indian fawn (Cervus porcinus), one great kangaroo (Macropus gigas).

Mr. F. W. Cragin, Manhattan, Kans. Skin of a bat (Atalapha cinerea).

Mr. John Cross, Manatee County, Florida. Portion of a rib of a manatee
(Trichechus latirostris).
REPORT OF DEPARTMENT OF MAMMALS. 139

Dr. Elliott Coues, Smithsonian Institution, Washington, D. C. Skin of
the rare squirrel (Sciurus arizonensis).

Surg. Major G. E. Dobson, Royal Victoria Hospital, Netley, England. A
collection of thirteen bats and five insectivores in alcohol.

Mr. John R. Eakin, Washington, Ark. Fragments of the skulls of a
man and a horse.

Mr. Vinal N. Edwards, Wood’s Holl, Mass. Skeleton of a harbor seal
(Phoca vitulina).

Dr. J. M. Flint, U. 8S. N. Dry anatomical preparation of a human
foetus.

Mr. William Fuller, East Penfield, N. Y. Two skeletons of raccoons
(Procyon lotor); three skeletons of muskrats (Fiber zibethicus); three
skeletons of minks (Putorius vison); and one skeleton of an ermine
(Putorius erminea).

Mr. Daniel Grinnan, Port Gibson, Miss. Tooth of a horse.

C.G. Gunther & Sons, New York, N. Y. Mounted group of Virginia deer
(Cariacus virginianus), and melanistic wolf (Canis lupus).

Mr. Manly Hardy, Brewer, Me. Skeleton of a fox (Vulpes fulvus).

Ensign Charles H. Harlow, U. 8S. N. Greely Relief Expedition. Skin.
of an Eskimo dog.

Mr. George C. Hazleton, Washington, D.C. Skeleton of a red bat (Ata-
lapha noveboracensis).

Mr. H. W. Henshaw, Washington, D. C. <A fresh specimen of a flying
squirrel (Sciuropterus volucella hudsonius).

Mr. C. J. Hering, Surinam. A bat in alcohol (Molossus rufus).

Mr. B. Holtzlander, Washington, D. C. Skin of a domestic cat (Felis
domestica).

Mr. William T. Hornaday, U. S. National Museum, Washington, D. C.
A rabbit in the flesh (Lepus sylvaticus).

Mr. T. S. Hovey, Puyallup Valley, Washington Territory. Tooth of a
horse.

Capt. T. B. Hunt, U.S. A. Skull and skin of the head of a mountain
sheep (Ovis montana).

Ipswich Museum, England. Two ear-bones of a fossil whale from the
Crag formations.

Jacobs Bros., Washington, D.C. Skin of a St. Bernard dog.

Dr. William H, Jones, U. S.N. Four human skulls from the plains of
Wuimanolo, Oahu, Hawaii Islands; and fifty-two human skulls from
Ancon, Peru.

Mr. P. L. Jouy, Japan. A collection of seven mammals from Japan,
embracing a pair of horns of the Japanese goat (Nemorhedus crispus) ;
one skin of a marten (Mustela sp.); two skins of the flying squirrel
(Pteromys sp.): one skin of the common mouse (Mus sp.); one skin
of a bat; and a skin of a Japanese otter (Lutronectes Whitelyei).

Dr. J. W. Kales, Union Springs, N. Y. Fragments of human skulls.
140 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884.

Mr. George Kiefer, Ancon, Peru. Nine human skulls; skull of a sea-
lion (Otaria jubata), and the horns of the domesticated sheep.

Mr. George R. Kleeberger, Northern California. Vertebral column of a
rabbit (Lepus sp).

Mr. R. Longstreet, Keeper U. S. Life-Saving Station, Manisquan, N J.

A harbor seal in the flesh (Phoca vitulina).

Dr. R. McCallum, Westville, Miss. A bat in alcohol (Plecotus sp.).

Ensign C. S. McClain (Greely Relief Dxpedition). Skull of a bear and
skeleton of an arctic fox (Vulpes lagopus) from Greenland.

Mr. L. M. McCormick, U. S. National Museum, Washington, D.C. A
red squirrel (Sciurus hudsonius hudsonius), and three young rabbits
(Lepus sylvaticus).

Mr. R. McFarlane, Chipewyan, Hudson Bay Territory. Skin of an al-
bino marten (Mustela americana), and a muskrat (Fiber zibethicus).
Mr. John J. McLean, U. S. Signal Bureau. Two skins of Steller’s sea
lion (Humetopias Stelleri) from Cape Mendocino, California, and three

human skulls from Alaska.

Dr. J. A. MeNiel, Chiriqui, Central America. A human skull.

Mr. James P. McTeer, Wytheville, Va. A monstrous hog.

Dr. W. V. Marquis, Bennett, Pa. Sacrum of an elk (Cervus canadensis),
and tooth of a domestic sheep.

Mr. Charles H. Marsh, Silver City, N. Mex. A rabbit skin (Lepus syl-
vaticus).

Mr. Frederick Mather, Forest and Stream Publishing Company, New York.
A mouse (Hesperomys leucopus) in alcohol, from Suffolk County, New
York. :

Dr. C. Hart Merriam, Locust Grove, N. Y. Four skeletons of the harp
seal (Phoca grenlandica) from the coast of Labrador.

Mr. Minus Miller, Knoxville, Iowa. Skin of the silver fox (Vulpes ful-
ous argentatus).

Mr. E. W. Nelson, Tucson, Ariz. A collection of eleven small mam-
mals from Arizona.

Norwich Museum, Norivich, England. Two ear-bones of a fossil whale
from the Crag formations.

Mr. Charles R. Orcutt, San Diego, Cal. Specimen of a gopher in alco-
hol (Thomomys talpoides).

Mr. William H. Palmer, U. 8. National Museum, Washington, D.C. A
bat (Scotophilus georgianus) and a harvest mouse (Hesperomys leucopus)
in the flesh.

Mr. George Poole, Dime Museum, Washington, D. C. Three monkeys
and an opossum in the flesh.

Lieut. P. I. Ray, U. 8S. N., and John Murdock, U. S. Signal Bureau. A
collection of sixty-four mammal skins and thirty-seven skeletons, from
Point Barrow, Alaska.

Mr. John Richardson, U. S. National Museum, Washington, D. C. A
collection of twelve mammal skins. :
REPORT OF DEPARTMENT OF MAMMALS. 141

Mr. Robert Ridgway, U. S. National Museum, Washington, D.C. Alco-
holic specimen of the red bat (Atalapha noveboracensis), caught in the
National Museum.

Mr. James W. Rogan, Rogersville, Tenn. A tield mouse (Arvicola sp.)
in alcohol.

Mr. J. H. Rowland, Hagerstown, Md. A monstrous lamb.

Mr. Fred. Sauter, New York, N. Y. ‘Skin of a Tayra (Galictis barbata).

Capt. C. M. Scammon, California. Two teeth of Stearns’s grampus
(Grampus Stearnsii) from the Californian coast.

Mr. Henry Schneider, Washington, D. C. Skin of a Laverack setter.

Mr. Lewis Sells, Cincinnati, Ohio. Skin of puma (felis concolor) ; a wart-
hog in the flesh (Phacocherus ethiopicus), and a baboon (Cynocephalus
anubis).

Dr. R. W. Shufeldt, U. S. A. A collection of four rodents and seven
bats from Louisiana.

Mr. A. L. Siler, Utah. A human skull.

Mr. Alexander Skinner, U. S. National Museum, Washington, D.C. Three
muskrats (Fiber zibethicus) and three flying squirrels (Sciwropterus
volucella) in the flesh.

Mr. George Smith, Prince George’s County, Maryland. A red squirrel
(Sciurus hudsonius hudsonius) in the flesh.

Mr. W. F. Smith, Webster City, Iowa. Broken skull of a wolf (Canis
lupus griseo-albus).

Mr. R. B. C. Stearns, U. S. National Museum, Washington, D.C. Skull
of a rabbit (Lepus californicus); three teeth of an elk (Cervus cana-
densis); a tusk of a fossil elephant (Hlephas sp.) from California.

Dr. Leonhard Stejneger. A collection of mammals from Bering Island
and Kamtschatka, one hundred and twenty-seven in number, includ-
ing skulls of Rhytina and three species of ziphioid whales.

Col. James Stevenson, U. S. Geological Survey. Two skins of wood rat
(Neotoma sp.) and one skin of kangaroo mouse (Dipodomys Phillipsi
Ordi) from Lee’s Ferry, Ariz.

Royal College of Surgeons, London, England (through Mr. W. L. Crow-

ther). Skeleton of a blackfish (Globiocephalus melas) from Tasinania.
Mr. R. 8S. Tarr, U. 8. National Museum, Washington, D. C. A bat
( Vespertilio lucifugus) in alcohol from Wood’s Holl, Mass.

Mr. Charles H. Townsend, U. S. Fish Hatching Station, Baird, Shasta
County, California. A collection of one hundred and eighty-three
skins and fifty-two skeletons of Californian mammals.

Mr. F. W. True, U. S. National Museum, Washington, D.C. A small
collection of skins and skulls of exotic mammals.

Mr. H. W. Turner, U. S. Geological Survey. A pale bat (Plecotus macro-
tus), a field mouse (Arvicola riparius), and a gopher (Thomomys tal-
poides) in the flesh; from California.

Mr. Iueien M. Turner, U. S. Signal Bureau. A collection of eighty-one
skins from Ungava Bay, and Labrador, British America.
142 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884.

U. 8. Fish Commission, Wood’s Holl, Mass. Alcoholic bat and three
young rabbits from Saint Mary’s, Fla.; twenty-one bats from the
West Indies; two skeletons of common dolphin (Delphinus delphis)
and one skeleton of bottle-nosed dolphin (Zurstops tursio) from Wood’s
Holl, Mass.; skull of a whale (Balenoptera Sibbaldii), and two epiph-
yses of a whale.

John and Charles Walker, Olney, Ill. Three bats in alcohol.

World’s Industrial and Cotton Centennial Exhibition, New Orleans, La.
(purchased of Prof. H. A. Ward, Rochester, N. Y.):

Skins of the following animals: Wolverine (Gulo luscus) ; lynx (Lynx
rufus); civet cat ( Viverra zibethica); peccary (Dicotyles tajacu); porcu-
pine (Synetheres prehensilis); guanico (Auchenia guanico); mountain
sheep (Ovis montana) ; Trowbridge’s hare (Lepus Trowbridget) ; beaver
(Castor fiber).

Skeletons of the following animals: Wolverine (Gulo luscus); lynx
(Lynx rufus); coati (Nasua narica); coyote (Canis latrans); mule deer
(Cariacus macrotis); antelope (Antilocapra americana); whale (Sotalia
sp.), Skull; kangaroo (Macropus gigas); wombat (Phascolarctos cinereus) ;
whale (Berardius Arnuxt), skull; manatee (Trichechus manatus).

Mr. William Wittfeld Georgiana, Fla. <A collection of nine mammals
from Georgiana, including the typical specimen of Neofiber Alleni.
Mr. A. F. Wooster, Norfolk, Conn. Skin of a red squirrel (Sciwrus hud-

sonius hudsonius).

Mr. W. 8S. Yaste, U. S. Geological Survey, Washington, D. C. A bat
( Vespertilio lucifugus).

Mr. José C. Zeledon, San José, Costa Rica. Two opossum skins (Didelphys
sp.); a squirrel (Sciwrus sp.); a field mouse (Hesperomys sp.) ; a gopher
(Geomys hispidus), and a skeleton of the Yaguarundi cat (Felis yaguar-
undt).
V.—REPORT UPON THE DEPARTMENT OF BIRDS IN THE U. S.
MUSEUM, 1884.

By RoBert RipGway, Curator.

The year 1884 was wholly unprecedented in the extent, if not in the
number, of accessions to the collections of the Department of Birds, and
the amount of work accomplished by the curator and his assistants.
To the latter are due especial mention, as follows:

Capt. Charles E. Bendire, U. 8S. A., who gratuitously rendered most
valuable service in the entire rearrangement and labeling of the oolog-
ical collection, a labor requiring his personal supervision during seven
months. Mr. C. W. Beckham, who until July 1 assisted Captain Ben-
dire in the arrangement and cataloguing of the oological collection, and
after that date rendered efficient aid in the preparation of the New
Orleans exhibit. Mr. Henry Marshall, taxidermist of the department,
whose skilled work added many attractive specimens to the exhibition
series. Mr. George Marshall, engaged after July 1 as assistant taxider-
mist. Miss Harriet S. Perkins, assigned specially to the oological sec-
tion, and who has therein rendered very efficient service. Mr. C. W.
Shoemaker, who performed various clerical duties until December 1,
when lack of funds necessitated his being dropped from the rolls. Mr.
Hugh M. Smith, who performed with great satisfaction the various du-
ties assigned him during his term of service, which extended from July
1to Decemberl. Dr. Leonhard Stejneger, who, appointed as assistant
on the New Orleans exhibit from July 1 until December 1, and after the
latter date as assistant curator, rendered most valuable service to the
department.

ACCESSIONS 10 THE BIRD COLLECTION.
. (a) Skins and alcoholic specimens.

The number of birds, chiefly skins, which were added to the collee-
tion during 1884 is 8,142 (Museum register Nos. 93092-101233), by far
the largest number received in one year in the history of the Museum.
The more important accessions were the following :—

Aiken, O. E., Colorado Springs, Colo.: 14 specimens, 3 species, from
Colorado. (Purchased.)

Batty, J. H., Parkville, Long Island, N. Y.: 50 specimens, 34 species,
from Europe, Peru, and various parts of the United States. (Exchange.)

143
144 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884.

Belding, L., Stockton, Cal.: 13 specimens, 5 species, from San Diego,
Cal. (Gift.)

. 4 species from Lower California and an interesting series of
Passerculus beldingi (sp. nov.) from San Diego. (Gift.)

Bendire, Capt. Charles E., U. S. A.: 304 specimens, 92 species, from
Fort Klamath, Oreg. (Gift.)

Benedict, J. E., and Nye, W., Jr., U. S. Fish Commission : 94 speci-
mens, 44 species, collected during the cruise of the Fish Commission
steamer Albatross, at St. Thomas, W.I1., on the islands of Trinidad,
Mona, Curagoa, and Old Providence, and at Sabanilla, New Granada.
Of the 10 species collected at Curagoa and Old Providence, 8 were new
to science. A pair of the interesting oil bird or guacharo (Steatornis
caripensis) were collected at Mona Island. (See notice of special paper
on this collection, in list of papers based on material in the National
Museum collection. )

Bergen Museum, Bergen, Norway (through Dr. L. Stejneger): 78 speci-
mens, 45 species, chiefly from Norway. (Exchange.)

Berlepsch, Count von, Muenden, Germany : 81 specimens, 66 species, of
neotropical birds, many of them new to the collection; also, 20 speci-
mens, 18 species, from Malacca—nearly all previously unrepresented.
(Exchange.)

Bicknell, Eugene P., Riverdale. N. Y.: Pair of Hylocichla alicie bick-
nelli; new to the collection. (Gift.)

Blakiston, Capt. T. W.: 675 specimens, chiefly from Japan, as follows:
149 species from Japan, 76 from China, 63 from England, 3 from Kamt-
schatka, 2 from India; total 293 species. (Gift.) (This collection is
specially important, having been made during a 20 years’ residence in
Japan, and forming the basis of Captain Blakiston’s various papers—
also those of other writers—on the birds of that country. Its acqui-
siticn, together with the collection made by Mr. P. L. Jouy, renders the
National Museum collection of Japanese birds perhaps the most com-
plete extant.)

Boardman, George A., Calais, Me.: 1 burrowing owl and 1 specimen
of Crotophaga ani, from Florida. (Gift.)

British Museum, London, England (through Mr. RK. EB. Earll, U.S. Fish
Commission) : 126 specimens, 100 species, from various localities in Asia,
Africa, and Australia. (Gift.)

. (through Dr. T. H. Bean, Curator, Department of Fishes, U.
S. National Museum): 247 specimens, 204 species, chietly from India.
(Gift.) ’

Bryant, D. S., Oakland, Cal. (through L. Belding, Stockton, Cal.) : An
interesting series of Passerculus sandwichensis bryanti (subsp. nov.), from
Oakland, Cal. (Gift.)

Coale, H. K., Chicago, Ill.: 14 species, chiefly from India, 5 of them
new to the collection. (Exchange.)

. 29 specimens, 27 species (several new to the collection), from
various localities. (Exchange.)

REPORT OF DEPARTMENT OF BIRDS. 145

Ooale, H. K., Chicago, Til.: 40 specimens, 24 species, of water birds,
chiefly from Northern Illinois. (Exchange.)

. 70 specimens, 54 species, mostly from Wadale, India; with
some from the United States, Kurope, and Australia. (Exchange.)

. T specimens, same number of species, 4 from South America,
1 from Costa Rica, and 1 from Moluccas. (Exchange.)

. 42 specimens, 24 species, from various localities in the United
States and a few from Europe and India. (Exchange.)

. 1 specimen of Munia malabarica from Wadale, India. (Gift.)
. Specimen of Buteo borealis krideri from TMllinois; new to the
collection. (Gift.)

Conklin, W. A., superintendent Menageric, Central Park, New York
City (through W. T. Hornaday, chief taxidermist, U. S. National Museum) :
1 specimen of long-tailed Chinese rooster, from Central Park Menagerie,
New York.

. L specimen of Grus leucogeranus, from Central Park Menagerie,
New York. (Exchange.)

Cory, Charles B., Boston, Mass.: 3 skins of Picoides americanus, from
Maine. (Exchange.)

. 1 skin of Ligea palustris, a new species, from St. Domingo.
(Exchange.)

Crumb, Capt. C. H., keeper life-saving station, Cobb’s Island, Virginia:
6 specimens of Ammodromus maritimus from Cobb’s Island, Va. (Gift.)

Dowell, John, Washington, D. C.: Mounted specimen of Porzana
jamaicensis, from Piscataway, Md. (Gift.)

Dutcher, William, New York City: 12 specimens of Passerculus prin-
ceps in flesh, from Long Island. (Gift.)

Edwards, Vinal N., Wood’s Holl, Mass: 1 specimen of Fratercula
arctica, from Wood’s Holl, Mass. (Gift.)

Fisher, William J., United States tidal observer, Kodiak, Alaska: 23

specimens, 17 species, from Kodiak. (Gift.)

Forrer, A., Switzerland: 2 skins (éand 2) of Rhynchopsitta pachy-
rhyncha, from Durango, Mexico; new to the collection. (Purchased.)

Fox, Dr. W. H., Washington, D. C.: 46 specimens, 35 species, chiefly

from Lookout Mountain, Tennessee; the first specimens, with possibly
one or two exceptions, which the Museum has ever received from that
State. (Exchange.)
. 75 specimens, 44 species, from Tennessee; including Picus
borealis and Quiscalus purpureus, the first specimens of these species
obtained west of the Alleghanies; also, two examples of Peucea esti-
 valis illinoensis. (Exchange.)

Gaumer, G. F., Yucatan: 23 specimens, 12 species, from Yucatan
(Purchased.)

Grebnitzki, Governor, Bering Island, Kamtschatka: 22 specimens, 12
species, from Bering Island. (Gift.)

S. Mis, 33, pt, 2-——10

146 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884.

Grinnell, George Bird, New York City: 2 specimens of Or inn graysoni,
from Tucson, Ariz. (Gift.)

Harting, J. E., British Museum, London, England: 14 specimens, 11
species, chiefly wading birds, several of them new to the collection.
(Exchange.)

Healy, Capt. M. A., U. S. Revenue Cutter Corwin: 46 specimens, 30
species, from Alaska. (Mostly in alcohol.) (Gift.)

Henshaw, H. W., U.S. Geological Survey: 33 specimens, 10 species of
birds, from District of Columbia, Nevada, New Mexico, &c. (Exchange.)
. 110 specimens, 48 species, chiefly from Colorado and New
Mexico; also, 17 specimens, 10 species, chiefly from Carson City, Nev.
(Exchange.) .

Hinckley, Isaac, Currituck Sound, North Carolina: Hybrid duck (Anas
boschas + obscura) in flesh. (Gift.)

Hornaday, W. T., chief taxidermist, U. 8S. National Museum : 37 speci-
mens, 34 species, from Coimbatore, India. (Purchased.)

Jencks, Fred. T., Providence, hk. I.: 1 specimen of Lophophorus
impeyanus, from the Himalayas, India. (Exchange.)

Johnson, J. W., U. S. Signal Service: 19 specimens, 13 species, from ,
Nushagak, Alaska.

Knowlton, F. H., U. S. National Museum: 3 skins of Quiscalus ceneus,
from Vermont. (Gift.)

Kebele, Albert: 16 specimens, 13 species, from Brazil. (Gift.)

Macgregor, Miss Inez, Concord, Va.: 1 hybrid fowl (common fowl and
Guinea-keet), from Concord, Va. (Gift.)

Marshall, George, Laurel, Md.: 3 specimens of Loxia americana, shot
at Laurel, Md., May 23 and 25, 1884. (Gift.)

Marshall, H.: 1 specimen of Nyctala acadica, from Washington, D.C.
(Gift.)

Maynard, C. J.: 22 specimens, 8 species, from Bahama Islands and
South America. (Purchased.)

McCormick, L. M., U. 8S. National Museum: 1 specimen of Agialites
melodus cireumcinctus, from Alexandria County, Virginia. (Gift.)

McDonald, Col. M., U. 8S. Fish Commission: 1 bald eagle in flesh, from
Virginia. (Gift.)

McKay, C. L. (deceased), U. S. Signal Service, Nushagak, Alaska: 22
specimens, 12 species, including none of particular interest.

McLain, OC. 8., U. S. Nw: 6 ee same number of species, from
Greenland. (Gift.)

McLeod, Rev. k. R., Jesus Maria, Gndiuianeas Mexico: 12 specimens,
saine number of epee from Chihuahua, Mexico. (Gift.)

Merrill, Dr. J. C., U. 8S. A.: 62 specimens, 39 species, from Fort
Brown, Texas. (Gift.)

Motte Julian A., Alexandria, Va.: 1 albino coot (Fulica americana)
in flesh. (Gift.)

Nation, Prof. W., Lima, Peru; Peruvian birds, mostly new to the
collection. (Gift.)

REPORT OF DEPARTMENT OF BIRDS. 147

Nation, Prof. W., Lima, Peru: 6 specimens, same number of species,
from Lima, Peru, 3 of them (i. e., Neorhynchus naseus, Polynomyia carol,
and Metallura opaca) important additions to the collection. (Gift.)

Nelson, EB. W., Tucson, Ariz.: 768 specimens, 114 species, from Alaska,
being a portion of Mr. Nelson’s collection which had not been catalogued.
From this lot and another which had been catalogued, but from which
the Museum series had not been taken, a fair proportion was selected
for the reserve collection of the Museum.

. 21 specimens, 12 species, from Arizona, including the following
particularly rare species: Harporhynchus bendirei (2), H. crissalis (3), Py-

_ranga cooperi (2), Helminthophila lucie (2), Scops trichopsis (1), and Micra-
thene whitneyi (1). (Purchased.)

. 787 specimens, 136 species, from Arizona. (Purchased.)

—-——. 16 specimens, 7 species, from Arizona. (Purchased.)

. 115 specimens, 35 species, from Arizona. (Purchased.)

Nye, W.. Jr., U. S. Fish Commission. (See Benedict, J. E.)

Palmer, W., U. S. National Museum: 2 specimens of Scops asio flori-
danus, from South Carolina; 1 adult ¢ Accipiter coopert, from Virginia
(mounted for exhibition series). (Gift.)

. 15 specimens, 11 species, from Alexandria County, Virginia.

(Gift.)

Ragsdale, G. H., Gainesville, Tex.: 31 specimens, 12 species, from
Cook County, Texas. (Purchased.)

. 1 mounted specimen of Buteo harlani from Gainesville, Tex.
(Purchased.)

Ray, Lieut. P. H., U. 8. A.: 288 skins, including 46 species, from
Point Barrow, Alaska; also 33 specimens (6 species) of birds in alcohol,
from the same locality. (U.S. Signal Office.)

Rey, Dr. E.: 25 specimens, same number of species, from various
localities in South America, Europe, Asia, and Africa. (Purchased.)

Ridgway, R., Curator, Department of Birds, U. S. National Museum :
1 adult male golden pheasant (Chrysolophus pictus), purchased in flesh
for the Museum; also 4 birds in alcohol, and 3 mounted for the exhi-
bition series, from Virginia.

Saunders, Howard, London, England: 5 specimens, 3 species, from
South America, India, and Greece. (Exchange.)

Sauter, Fred., New York Ctiy: 22 specimens, same number of species,
from different parts of Europe, Asia, Africa, and South America.
(Exchange. )

Schliiter, Wilhelm, Halle, Germany: 7 specimens, same number of
species, from Siberia. (Purchased.)

Sharpe, R. Bowlder, British Museum, London, England: 66 specimens,
nearly as many species, chiefly from Southern India (Lower Pegu, &c.).
(Exchange.)

. 256 specimens, 180 species, from India. Many species new to
the collection. (Exchange.)

148 REPORT OF NATIONAI, MUSEUM, 1884.

Shufeldt, Dr. R. W., U. S. A.: 17 specimens, 11 species, birds in
alcohol, from Lonisiana. (Gift.)

Slade, Elisha, Somerset, Mass.: Living pair of hybrid ducks (Anas
obscura+boschas). (Gift.)

Stearns, Frederick, & Co., Detroit, Mich.: 24 specimens, 16 species,
from Costa Rica and Jamaica. (Purchased.)

Stejneger, Dr. L., Assistant Curator, Department of Birds, U. S,
National Museum: 4 specimens of swan (Olor cygnus and Cygnus gibbus)
from Europe. (Gift.)

. L specimen of Tetrao tetrix, sterile 9, from Lund, Southern
Norway. (Gift.)

: L specimen of Hypherpes corallirostris, from Savary, Mada-
gasear. (Gift.)

. 74 specimens, 43 species, from various parts of Europe and
Asia. (Gift.)

. 3 specimens of Lagopus albus alleni, a new form, from St.
John’s, Newfoundland, including the type specimen. (Gift.)

. Ll specimen of Motacilla boarula, 1 of Pyrrhula vulgaris, and
1 of Sterna nigra, from Norway. (Gift.)

. 19 specimens, same number of species, from Brazil and Nor-
way. Including anadult 9 of Falco gyrfalco, new tothe collection. (Gift.)

——.., Skin of Motacilla alba, juv., Troglodytes borealis and T. bergen-
sis sp. nov. (type), all new to the collection. (Gift.)

Townsend, Charles H.: 478 specimens from Northern California.
(Smithsonian exploration.)

. 55 specimens, from Farallone Islands, California. (Smith-
sonian exploration.)

Turner, Lucien M., U.S. Signal Service: 1,705 specimens, from Ft.
Chimo, Ungava. (U.S. Signal Office.)

Ward, Prof. Henry A., Rochester, N. Y.: 7 specimens, same number
of species, from Yokohama, Japan. (HExchange.)

. 13 specimens, 10 species, from Australia and Tasmania.
(Purchased.)

Wheeler, Capt. George M., U. S. A.: 30 specimens, 28 species, from
Southwestern United States. (Residue of collection made by the
U.S. Geological Survey west of 100th meridian.) (War Department.)

Wolford, W. L., Minneapolis, Minn.: 4 specimens of Hesperiphona ves-
pertina, from Minneapolis, Minn. (Hxchange.)

Worthen, Charles K., Warsaw, Ill.: 45 specimens, 26 species, from
Western United States and Mexico. (Hxchange.)

. 39 specimens, 25 species, chiefly from Oregon and New Mex-
ico. (Hxchange.)

. 12 specimens, 6 species, from New Mexico. (Exchange.)

. 13 specimens, 7 species, chiefly from Western Oregon. (Ex-

change.)

, 5 specimens, 2 species, from Warsaw, Ill, (Exchange.)

Er bit
REPORT OF DEPARTMENT OF BIRDS. 149

Worthen, Charles K., Warsaw, Ill.: 1 specimen of Chordeiles henryi,

from Warsaw,Lil. (Exchange.)
. 3 specimens, same number of species, from Silver City, N.
‘fex., including 1 specimen of Peucea ruficeps eremeca (the second
specimen acquired), and the type of a new species, Spizella wortheni.
(xchange.)

Zeledon, José O., San José, Costa Rica: 16 specimens, 15 speaies, from
Costa Rica. (Several species new to the collection and others new to
Costa Rica.) (Gift.)

. 1 specimen of Chriomacheris aurantiaca, trom Costa Rica.
A species new to the fauna of that country. (Gift.)

(b) Nests and eggs.

The number of entries made in the oological register during 1884
was 3,222 (Museum Nos. 18,922-22,143), much the largest part of which
consisted of Captain Bendire’s magnificent collection of North American
birds’ eggs, numbering nearly 8,000 specimens, generously presented
by Captain Bendire to the National Museum, and catalogued and
arranged under his direct supervision. The more important of other
accessions are the following:

Fencker, Governor, Gothaab, Greenland: 25 entries, same number of
species, from Greenland.

Merrill, Dr. James C., U. 8. A.: 468 entries, 243 species, from various
localities.

Nelson, HL. W., Tucson, Ariz.: 156 entries, 75 species, from Arizona.

Ray, Tieut. P. H., U. 8. A.: 123 entries, 14 species, from Point Barrow,
Alaska.

Smith, Hugh M., Washington, D. C.: Nest and eggs of American Gold-
finch (Chrysomitris tristis), from Virginia.

Stejneger, Dr. Leonhard, U. 8S. Signal Service: 58 entries, 34 species,
from Bering Island, Kamtschatka.

Townsend, Charles H.: 27 entries, 11 species, from Red Bluff, Cali-
fornia.

Turner, Lucien M., U.S. Signal Service: 2% entries, same number of
of species, from Alaska.

DISTRIBUTION OF SPECIMENS.

The total number of specimens distributed during 1884 was 2,658
birds and 45 eggs, as follows:
(a) Skins.

Specimens sent out in exchange -..-.--....---.------0+--------- ce Ee ae 2, 244
BRECEnene LOBNOG 100 CXAMINGUON 450 ache sianewadadan an sidanond seqevaumenes 414

Paar Use iy aie Sere Ses SEL eS is a tet, 1 ak hee pert een oan! Sails We b o:nl enlara mb wrd\w a,c 2, 658
ee MnCAsEG 30 SROUMNGE 2522 UU. 5 cos date weantr ud addledecdew sand Voadve obiee 1, 025
PPCM RNOUrNOr GXAINiINmiOM +... 155s ioewn a desk saan b a ecaaldana Sudans| ene sega | Ue
150 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1864.

(b) Eggs.
Specimens sontiout In exchange... < 0525 2ocses coon eee ss oe espe eee canes 34
Specimens loaned for examination 2.2. ceac once semss asso siaea| see ete ates ae see il
Wotal/2es Sac% sc sw ce kwele ocalemiae Sie (abies sale (tales eta ete ais = ae tata ets ete ee 45
Specles sent Out In Oxchanee roc cccc esas maecee eas eee aRCeee «eee ee ee 11
Species loaned for examination: <2... 06.6. ce ice cows ween apse aloe aula eeeeeaee il
otal’ 222). Svs se do ote e See eh eee ae hoe ae ee ae ee ee 22

SPECIAL WORK ACCOMPLISHED.

Unpacking and redistributing the collection of birds sent to the London
International Fisheries Exhibition—The return of several large boxes
of specimens of aquatic and fish-eating birds, sent to the London Inter-
national Fisheries Exhibition, necessitated a large amount of labor in
unpacking and redistributing the same to their respective drawers.
This collection embraced 380 specimens, representing 220 species.

Selection of birds for the museum of the Indiana State University.—The
natural history collections of the Indiana State University having been
totally destroyed by fire in July, 1883, the National Museum undertook
to replace, in a measure, the ornithological collection of that establish-
ment. For this purpose a considerable number of duplicate mounted
specimens were available, and in order to get at these it was necessary
to unpack some dozen or more large boxes which had been kept in the
storage rooms, and then repack and invoice the residue. The total
number of specimens, chiefly mounted, which were thus disposed of
amounted to 564, representing 395 species.

Researches connected with a new list of North American birds.—The
curator of the department having been charged by the Committee on
Classification and Nomenclature of the American Ornithologists’ Union
to determine certain. doubtful questions of synonymy among North
American birds, for the proposed new list to be published by the
Union, he has spent much time in investigating the various complicated
questions pertaining tothis work. In this labor he has been materially
assisted by Dr. Leonhard Stejneger.

Rearrangement of the collection of larger water birds, &de—Four new
large “Salvin” cabinets having been provided for the accommodation
of a portion of the collection of larger birds, the latter, which had been
packed in various inconvenient and unsafe receptacles, chiefly large
packing boxes, were unpacked and rearranged in the drawers of the
new cabinets.

Installation of mounted specimens.—A large number of specimens
which had accumulated during the occupancy of the alcoves between
the exhibition cases in the main hall by the Smithsonian offices, while
the east end of the building was undergoing repairs, was distributed
through the cases after the alcoves were cleared, it having until then
been impossible to gain access to the cases.
REPORT OF DEPARTMENT OF BIRDS. 151

Moving the office of the curatom—The former quarters of the curator
in the top of the south tower proving, under the large increase of busi-
‘ness in the department, no longer suitable for the purpose, the south-
west gallery of the main hall was, at the curator’s suggestion, cleared
and fitted up for temporary occupancy. The labor of moving the fur-
niture, &e., of the curator’s office to the new quarters was very consid-
erable, involving, among other things, the transfer of 27 quarter-unit
cases and 11 walnut cabinets, with their contents (embracing some
30,000 specimens).

Selection of specimens for mounting.—About 2,500 skins were selected
for mounting, to add to the exhibition series of the Museum. Of this
number somewhat over 1,200, chiefly small birds, were mounted; but
the remainder are put aside to be mounted as opportunity permits.

Preparation of copy for labels for the exhibition collection.—Copy for
considerably over 1,000 species-labels for the mounted birds was pre-
pared during the year, said labels to give the English name (in large,
heavy type) of each species, the various local or popular names, the
scientific name, the range, a reference to where a full account of the
habits, ete., can be found, and other information specially desired by
the general public. All the North American and a considerable number
of the foreign species have been thus covered. A sample copy of this
label is herewith submitted:

RING-BILLED GULL.

)
Larus delawarensis, ORD.
Water B. N. Am., I. p. 244.

Whole of North America, breeding northward;
south, in winter, to Mexico and Cuba.

| 669.

Transfer of mounted specimens to new walnut stands.—Several hundred
of the mounted specimens were during the year transferred to new
black-walnut stands, and the beauty of the collection thus materially
increased.

* New Orleans exhibit.—By far the larger part of the work done from
July to November, inclusive, consisted in the preparation of an exhibit
of birds for the World’s International Cotton Exposition at New Orleans.
It was at first intended to send a selected series of birds from all parts*
of the world, in order to show the more characteristic types of each ot
the primary zodgeographical divisions of the earth. This plan was,
however, found not feasible, owing partly to the large expense involved
in the purchase of specimens not already in the collection, but chiefly
to the lack of sufficient space in the exhibition building. Lt was finally
152 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884.

determined, therefore, to restri@t the exhibit to a collection of North
American game-birds, of which 171 specimens (a large number of them
mounted specially for the occasion), representing 123 species, were
sent. These were installed by Dr. L. Stejneger, assistant curator.
This collection embraces, with a few unimportant exceptions, all the
North American species of the turkey, grouse, and partridge families,
besides all the species of swans, geese, and ducks, shore-birds, &ce., of
Eastern North America, all accurately labeled with both their English
and scientific names.

Publications.—The total number of papers published during 1884 which
were based exclusively or in part on the bird collection of the National
Museum is 60, embracing about 450 octavo pages, and of books, 3 vol-
umes, two royal 8vo, with a total of 1,096 pages, and one imperial octavo
of 893 pages.

PRESENT STATE OF THE COLLECTION.
(a) Mounted and alcoholic specimens and skins.

Condition.—In all respects except the manner of installation of the
exhibition series, and some inconveniences of arrangement resulting
trom insufficient storage facilities, the present condition of the collec-
tion is excellent. No injury has been done by insects, owing in part to
the tight-fitting cases in which the principal part of the skin collection
is kept and to the close surveillance kept over those specimens to which
insects could gain access. Bisulphide of carbon has been freely used in
all the drawers, close-fitting and otherwise, and any infected specimens
discovered were at once quarantined and fumigated. The collection is
in very urgent need of better accommodations, however, aS is more
fully explained under the head of ‘* Recommendations.”

Extent.—It was found impracticable to make an actual inventory of
the collections at the end of 1884, on account of the pressure of numer-
ous other duties. But the following estimate, based on the inventory
for 1883 and the number of specimens received and distributed during
the past year, may be considered as approximately correct :

Specimens.

RGS6LV eS kin SeONeSasns seeese oe ee eea eee PAS ne ee 32, 530

Hschibition.SOries..- =v ace ayo oes weno aeieete ame ese areas ae 6, 800

Duplicate series: ....- 2. <<. .- 205. conere qmesine enes pee eam mee mar es 9, 350

AICONOlICG "RELIES + eee ee aan cee eee coals Heine nen cise emnar rats 1, 650
°

Métal ducati seceded tate oe eee tet s eeeene © sehen serer ee 50, 350

The reserve series, exclusive of alcoholics, consisted therefore of
about 39,350 specimens at the end of 1884.

(b) Oological collection.

The collection of birds’ eggs has been completely overhauled and
rearranged during the year by Capt. Charles E. Bendire, U. S. A,,
assisted by Mr. ©. W. Beckham and Miss Harriet 8S. Perkins. Captain

a
REPORT OF DEPARTMENT OF BIRDS 153

Bendire presented to the National Museum his unique collection of
North American birds’ eggs, numbering nearly 8,000 beautifully pre-
pared specimens, representing unrivaled series of many very rare
species, besides a number not previously represented in the Museum.
This valuable collection was incorporated with that of the Museum, the
two thus combined being entirely rearranged after the sequence of
species given in the latest edition of the “Smithsonian” catalogue of
North American birds (Bulletin U.S. National Museum, No. 21), and
neatly packed in glass-topped drawers, between strips of cotton batting.
The collection is arranged in 5 unit cases and 154 drawers, besides va-
rious other temporary receptacles.

A complete census of the egg collection has been made by Miss Per-
kins, assisted by Mr. Hugh M. Smith. The total number of eggs, ex-
clusive of those in nests, which were not counted, is 40,072, distributed
as follows :

RERERINC MIE ATLTONOL VO SOTIGS 2 oc cise ent! (oko kccinn ccs asic a cure sue Be tatu eee 24, 483
PR MeAMEMCG:! CUPUCALO BELICS...< <<. .-cas-ccne woccco cone cae coos cons oe L317
HPAL NONGI AMNOTIOANN. oo 5 > hoo. a ohades nd seiscenncine deededdsne,< tas Sapo OO
BRR eC ONEIY G. HOLTON... U2 i 4! elle olivier yo pea od ey od Pes 2 ea T 2,536
IERIE RIE iS BOEID 8-3 oe oo SU eo ao leslie beatin Jt oink cation 1,211
IE RTORIVECN DR COEIOS ie nw aside gehen snaps ue'otis, amie domamene LO
PER SORIEN ore oa dae at one belie na sv ee cna se nploes Anes ates 104
a ane el pal ee ibaa eles beryl bAaliate gn Ubiepalne nies Sele tviclee tt BH 231
ER INOCESEE COL ODORUNTN oo St i goed a aE he bland cig ea din 4, 272

35, 800

RR PR RELIED UD Sica oe 2 Sthee Soe ek oo cea ta a as Boise eco See eee Ae 40, 072

RECOMMENDATIONS.

Cases for the exhibition series.—By far the most urgent need of the
department of birds is the want of suitable cases for the arrangement of
the exhibition collection. The main purpose of this collection being the
entertainment and instruction of the general public, it is due the latter
that this, to them most important, portion of the collections should be
exhibited in a manner which will afford them the means of deriving both
pleasure and instruction from its inspection. Ln its present condition the
exhibition series of birds is not only not in keeping with the dignity of
the National Museum, but it is actually and deservedly the subject of
much unfavorable comment. With the cases at present provided it is
not possible to arrange the collection in any attractive manner, even
were the number of cases sufficient for its accommodation. The Ameri-
can Museum of Natural History in New York City is able, on account
of its large, well-lighted, and admirably constructed cases, to make a
display of the most diversified forms of the feathered creation, with
which the bird exhibit of the National Museum cannot be compared,
except to its discredit. 1 would most earnestly recommend that the
154 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884.

evil be remedied at as early a date as practicable by the construe:
tion of new cases or the repair and modification of those now in use. |
The National Museum possesses material, in the form of beautifully
mounted specimens and unmounted hes from which in a short time)
could be built a collection for popular instruction far superior to any in)
America, and for beauty and utility, if not in extent, unsurpassed by
any in Europe. # |

Labels for the exhibition collection.—Next to the evil discussed abo ve
is the absence of suitable labels for the specimens in the exhibitio;
series. All are provided with the usual Museum label, upon which isi
recorded in full the data pertaining to each. But these labels, ev on:
when not fastened beneath the stands, are of no use to the publi¢«
The latter require a label upon which they may find in conspicuo 181
typography the name of the bird before them (particularly its Euglisl
name, if the species have one) and other similar facts. ‘To meet this
requirement a form of label has been invented by the curator upon whieh’
is printed, first, in large, heavy-face type, the English name of the
species; second, in smaller type, the various popular or local names ‘
by which it ig ae third, in medium heavy-face type, the scientific
name ; and, fourth, a en statement of the range or habita
In the case of species having notable characteristics or of special eco-
nomic importance, the facts are briefly but concisely mentioned. The:
copy for labels for all the species of North American birds is completed L
ready for the printer, as is also that for a large number of exotic species, Ml
and I would earnestly recommend that these be printed as soon as)
practicable. (See sample label exhibited on page 151 of this report. a .

Transfer of mounted specimens to new stands.—Most of the larger birds
in the mounted collection have been transferred to new walnut stan ds
ot the adopted model; but there still remains a considerable numb or,
and much the greater 2s of the Smaller specimens, which are yet on

ee A sufficient number of new stands is on hand for the
specimens which are yet to be transferred, and I would respectfully
recommend that the completion of the work be assigned to some com
petent person, under the direction and supervision of the curator. —

Taxidermists laboratory——The laboratory of the taxidermist is at
present in need of many repairs and fixtures for facilitating the work
of mounting birds for the exhibition series. Wall-cases with sash- door:
and shelves are needed, as are also other improvements which it is un
necessary to specify hoe g

Additional storage room for specimens.—The bulk of the collection 01 (
birds has increased to such an extent that he cabinets thus far pro”

one. At least three more of the large “Salvin” cabinets are urgen Ly
REPORT OF DEPARTMENT OF BIRDS. 155

needed for the larger birds, and an equal number of quarter-unit cases
for snfaller specimens.

Additions to the exhibition series.—The exhibition series being intended
for the purpose of popular instruction, it is therefore obvious that ajudi-
cious selection of the objects to be exhibited is highly desirable. No end
is served by the presentation of many species of one family of birds,
or a large number which appeal inno way to the interest of the general
public. Apart from the North American collection, which, in the in-
terest of students, should be made complete as possible, the exhibition
collection should consist of birds remarkable for beauty of plumage or
peculiarities of structure, or interesting from their association with
literature or history, or from their economic value. During a recent in-
spection of the American Museum of Natural History in New York
City, the curator made a list of more than 100 species of foreign birds
which constitute the chief attraction of that superb museum, all of
which are wanting to the national collection. There are also required
for the purposes of scientific research many forms which can be ob-
tained only by purchase, the want of which has greatly impeded the
scientific work of those who have made the collections of the National
Museum the basis of their scientific investigations. It is earnestly
recommended, therefore, that these species (a list which the curator
hopes shortly to present) be purchased as soon as the finances of the
Museum will allow.

Ornithological library.— Not less pressing than the acquisition of
special desiderata in the way of specimens is the need of a better
working library for the Department of Birds. There are many books,
some of which are in almost every public library of importance in the -
country, and even in not a few private libraries—but not in that of
the National Museum or of Congress—which are indispensable to the
working ornithologist. These should be supplied at as early a date as
possible.

Additional assistants —The work of the department has increased
so rapidly within the last few years, that with his present force the
curator cannot keep abreast of his duties as they accumulate and at
the same time carry on the improvements in the condition of the col-
lection which are necessary to its preservation and utility. Two addi-
tional aids are needed, both of whom should be persons who would
have a lively interest in their work, one to act as messenger and general
assistant, the other to perform necessary clerical duties.
VI.—REPORT UPON THE DEPARTMENT OF HERPETOLOGY IN
— ‘THE U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM FOR THE YEAR 1884.

By H. C. Yarrow, M. D., Honorary Curator.

_ During the past year, as in previous years, the Department of Rep-
tiles has been abundantly favored by many contributors whose interest
in herpetology has led them to make valuable and extensive collections,
and both the reserve and general series have been consequently much
enlarged and made more valuable for purposes of comparison and study.
Among the most noteworthy of the donations received may be men-
tioned the following: From Capt. Charles Bendire, U.S. A., who for
many years has been a most devoted friend to the establish sine has been
eceived a large and valuable collection from Fort Klamath bey vicinity,
Washington Territory. Mr. Charles H. Townsend, of Baird, Shasta
Couty, California, has sent in an extremely interesting collection of
the characteristic reptiles of that vicinity. Mr. C. J. Hering, of Suri-
nam, a large contributor in previous years, has also presented a valu-
able collection of exotic reptiles, and from the scientific gentlemen of the
Fish Commission steamer, Albatross, a large collection made during the
cruise in the West Indies in 1884, comprising over one hundred speci-
mens, has been received. This econ has been loaned, by direction
of Professor Baird, to Prof. E. D. Cope, of Philadelphia, for study and
identification; the resuits will be probably embodied in a forthcoming
paper by this distinguished naturalist on tropical herpetology. From
Lieut. George F. Chase, U. 8. A., Fort Thomas, Arizona, have been re-
ceived two living examples of the “Gila monster,” Heloderma suspectum,
pe, these having been sent by special request to furnish additional
‘material for Dr. S. Weir Mitchell’s researches upon the venom of this
interesting lizard. Collections have also been received from R, Ells-
worth Call, Des Moines, Iowa, and a particularly valuable one from F.
W. Nelson, Tucson, Arizona.
_ During the months of August and September, 1884, the curator, be-
ing in charge of a small party for scientific research sent out by direction
of the Secretary of War, had an opportunity of collecting many valu-
able aad interesting specimens of reptiles in the Territory of Utah,
supplementing in this manner the collections made by him in 1872 while
Naturalist of Lientenant Wheeler’s expedition. By permission of the

107
158 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884.

Director of the Museum one of his assistants in the Department of Rep-
tiles accompanied him, and by permission of General McCook, U.S. A.,
Lieut. B. W. Atkinson, Sixth United States Infantry, also joined the
party; both gentlemen rendered valuable assistance. A small appro-
priation was made to further the objects of the expedition.

Other collections have been received from José C. Zelodon, of Costa
Rica; B. V. Archer, Key West, Fla.; Prof. D. S. Jordan, Bloomington,
Ind.; Dr. B. G. Lartigue, of South Carolina; Miss Rosa Smith, San
Diego, Cal.; James Bell, Gainesville, Fla.; John and Charles Walker,
Olney, Richland County, Illinois; H. C. Orcutt, San Diego, Cal.; R. E.
C. Stearns, Auburn, Cal.; F. W. Hayden, Canada; Gustave Kohn, New
Orleans, La.; W. A. Conklin, superintendent Central Park Museum, New
York; J. Richardson, Rutland, Vt.; D. S. Sheldon, Griswold College,
Davenport, Iowa; Charles R. Orcutt, San Diego, Cal.; Charles H. Town-
send, Red Bluff, Cal.; H. W. Turner, San Francisco, Cal.; Maj. G. E.
Dobson, Surgeon Royal Victoria Hospital, Netley, England; H.W. Hen-
shaw, Massachusetts; and R. Ridgway, Wheatland, Ind. From this ex-
tended list it will be seen that the public interest in the Reptile Depart-
ment is constantly increasing. We are also under great obligations to’
Professor Snow, of the Kansas University, who loaned us a unique and
beautiful specimen of Crotalus lepidus, which has been drawn as one of
the illustrations for the Manual of Herpetology in course of preparation
by the curator.

As was mentioned by the curator in his last annual report, the routine
work of the department has been transacted by himself and two assist-
ants, both of whom are already possessed of considerable knowledge
regarding reptiles. The ordinary routine is as follows: All collections
received are at once numbered with a metallic tag and entered in the
accession book, having been previously identified if possible. They are
then, after a careful examination, placed in either the reserve or the
general series, an additional record being made, in order that in case a
specimen is needed it may be at once found according to its classifica-
tion. In explanation of the terms ‘reserve series” and “ general series”
it may be said that the entire collection of American reptiles is divided
into two great parts, one called the ‘‘ Reserve Series,” intended for pur-
poses of study and comparison, and from which is selected the exhibi-
tion set, the other entitled the *‘ General Series,” from which selections
are made for donations to other museums or to amplify the ‘‘ Reserve
Series.” It is to be greatly regretted that proper space is not available
to admit of a proper display of series of both domestic and foreign
reptiles.

It has long been the intention of the curator to arrange in the same
manner the collection of foreign reptiles, but in the present crowded
condition of the curator’s room it has been found impossible to do this
properly.

The following records, in addition to the current record, are kept with

REPORT OF DEPARTMENT OF HERPETOLOGY. 159

sat care and exactitude, and are necessitated by the business of the
p artment, which has greatly increased in magnitude during the last
pycars. These records are as follows:

ecord of reserve series.

ord of general series.

ord of letters received.

ecord of letters sent.

ecord of requisitions.

n these may be found every matter of business transacted in the
apartment of Reptiles.

No little labor is involved in attending promply to tie official cor-
| sl ondence, which is quite voluminous at times, for letters of inquiry
received from all parts of the world, to answer which, require much
tudy, thought, and labor. During fie year 1884 over two hundred
ters were received and answered, and many were written in addi-
‘he long-cherished desire of the curator to have prepared a card-cat-
gue of the collection of reptiles is now in a fair way toward realiza-
i, aS a commencement has been made and over a thousand speci-
ns have been examined, verified, and recorded. This, in view of the
sular work, which was arduous in 1884, is considered a good begin-
ic.

The manuscript of a Manual of Herpetology (mentioned in last year’s
ort) by the curator, could be put into the hands of the printer within
bort period if the illustrations were all completed. Owing to a want
funds, further work upon these has been stopped.

No special work has been attempted this year apart from the routine
ities and field researches.

At the present time the collection is in excellent condition, which
uld be much improved were more space available. Although since
scember 1, 1884, the business of the Reptile Department has been
sed by the furloughing of both assistants, still constant attention is
ven in order that the specimens may not perish for want of suitable
Number of specimens on hand:

RTI Sets Se eg nb bw aon p ade sone ces sabe wee eneeee 8, 926
SeeEeCMes . -...4.-.......-.-. Reams a Re ye AE OE er ie ee eR i 8,819
hibition set (selected for) :

sini 525 ya cae ds haex <6 oss = nee d Sugatwath ula ak ieee stad dels. s 600
Foreign ata ee ares ack ob aK sa min hae alae Sans cameae ese apes 62a 150

mmnuniber Of entries in record book, 1884 ....... 2-2-6 cceccenccsee cocces oo 584
tal number of specimens received to January 1, 1885.....-....--....-..---- 1,494
tal number of entries in record up to January 1, 1885 .....,-..---,-----.-- 14,329
160 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884

Since his connection with the National Museum, in an honorary
capacity, the curator has repeatedly called attention to the fact that
without additional accommodation for his department it would be im-
possible to so arrange the collection as to make it of much practical
value, and it is now with a desponding spirit that he again urges that
something may be done for relief. All the available shelf-space is
overcrowded, specimens have to be placed on the floor or in an adjoining
hall, and much material that is valuable is hidden away in clumsy tanks,
deposited in almost inaccessible corners.

Owing to other and important official duties, it is impossible for
the curator to give his entire time to reptilian work, and without
assistance the department will gradually merge into the condition it
was when he first took charge of it. With becoming deference he
thinks this should not be permitted ; an enormous amount of work has
been expended in the department, and, with pardonable pride, he thinks

that under the circumstances it compares most favorably with any of

the other departments in the National Museum.

It must be conceded by all who have looked into this subject that the
Reptile Department is of quite as much importance to the Museum and
to the scientific public as any of the other departments, and for this
reason the curator again respecttually calls the attention of the Director
to his recommendation of last year, that the person in charge should be
a salaried officer, and be required to give his entire time to the duties
of his office. This the present curator cannot do, and it will therefore
be understood that no motive of self-interest prompts him in this sug-
gestion.

Vea oe!
REPORT UPON THE DEPARTMENT OF FISHES IN THE U. 8.
NATIONAL MUSKUM FOR 1884,

By TARLETON H. Bran, Curator.

IMPORTANT ACCESSIONS DURING 1884,

There were 93 accessions during the year, of which 51 were gifts, 32
from Museum collectors, and 10 from U.S. Fish Commission collectors.

SYNOPSIS OF THE ACCESSIONS.

Bee ee SO PTVIMISRO UPL ss celeets.= MN. Sento at Cree 3
SCLC ee ee 1 iNewsampsbine:. 282s Paee es alee 8 2
MEE PRON fanaa 5 els wra's tt. wae lo sine ops ONO WH OLSON a. Sho tos poe Sele Se ictciae 3
MIRIAM Sate S oye = 2 at om al = one a Di INGE MOT COW: fi 55) lejos Se esa aay 1
District of Columbia..-.-......------ 9 | New York ..--..--- Bee eaetcs toe sauace 6
BRIAN Sie cc Said x lation cee cures cats Gi North Carolina. 2.322% esb i sso eel et bee 2
RR woes ls ons oo ae Wie en Kare Oy @repan st co 2/ 22. SAE ale aise wade 8
TST Ap RR is A P| Penney hy ania . 55 ish See ee i
me andiana .....-.--...-.-..-----------. 1 Rhode Teland .2--.- 28068 (o.2c. bo aaes 2
© a ee i ae ee ea fe | SUPRA eee RP a a cin shel a Re re Grate A
De. SR a nen VUE LTT Bt sre eve aie oars epee otter ote 4
BEEING ahs os ko See sone ce. woo psec 2 | Washington Territory.....-....-...-- 2
SET TIBOUUS) ou nie ms See ala eae oe 7) (OWWASCONSIO Ss eoues ede l. BRE See 1
MMREREE RT ere ooo es a 6 3d Saiia sooo 2) | Deep sear. 245s.) . 85S sete size taste cen ©
STIPE DT ESS ne se Sea ge 2
EXTRALIMITAL.
Rae eel, SL ae i oS ere i Manitoba)... == {5202504 ane eae eta naar 1
1. ag ee re, Saree 1: Newroundlang 2222s ue scundteseo eae os = 1
CS ee Ce eae PPONtATIO‘S Soo see aan erie a cena see eee = i
mn ceet seb 000k ob 1 yal th) Periso4s 2 Set ees See cto L
LG 2 AAS SESS ee ee ee ses a 2 Quebeo ty Asses eae sae a coe 2
eR 1 WVieni0e)}.2-% sone ie a etenes ceo aes sano 1
a a if |" Wesb/Indies esses aeteeeee ee oe ed 4

By addition we would have a larger number of accessions than 93;
but, in some cases, the accession was partly from one locality and partly
from another, and each is credited as one in the synopsis.
: Following is a summary of the most interesting accessions catalogued
during the year, 34 in number:
Copt. Charles Bendire, Vort Klamath, Washington Territory. Accession
13916; catalogue, 33956-33957. This collection contained two very
SB. Mis. 33, pt. 2—~11 161

a
162 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884.

large skins of Catostomus labiatus, a little known sucker, and one
which we have not had in the Museum before.

TI. M. Turner, Ungava Bay, Labrador. Accessions 13724 and 13922;
catalogue 34114-34261. This large and valuable collection of fishes
was made in 1882 and 1883, by Mr. Turner. It contains twenty-seven
species, represented in most cases by a sufficient number of excellent
specimens. As might have been expected, his collection is rich in
Salmonoids, including six species. One of the most interesting of the
species is a char, which I suppose to be Salvelinus stagnalis; this is
remarkable for its enormous size, almost rivaling that of the Maine
salmon. Among the rarer species obtained by Mr. Turner are the fol-
lowing : Cottus scorpioides, Cyclopterus spinosus, Sticheus punctatus, and
Somniosus microcephalus.

Prof. D. 8. Jordan, Bloomington, Ind. Accession 13981; catalogue
34351-34373. This is a collection of Venetian fishes, containing
twenty-three species.

Daniel Kelleher, New Bedford, Mass. Accession 14058; catalogue
34380. A stuffed skin of Conger, 65 inches long.

South Side Club, Oakdale, L. I. Accession 14060; catalogue 34382.
A fresh specimen of the rainbow trout, Salmo irideus, which was
reared in the ponds of the club, and shows remarkable growth of the
species since its introduction there by the U. S. Fish Commission.

Miss Rosa Smith, San Diego, Cal.. Accession 14099; catalogue 34745-
34792. A fine collection of about thirty-seven species of Pacific fishes.

E. G. Blackford, 80 Fulton Market, New York, N. Y. Accession 14151;
catalogue 34427. A male steel-head trout, Salmo gairdneri, weigh-
ing 26 pounds, from Portland, Oreg.

Dr. William H. Jones, U. 8. .N., U. 8. S. Wachusett. Accession 14202.
Nine jars of fishes in alcohol, collected during the cruise of the U.
S.S. Wachusett. Coast of Peru.

George A. Hudson, Savannah, Ga. Accession 14280; catalogue 34715.
A leather carp, Cyprinus carpio, from the Ogechee River, Georgia.
Weight, 24 pounds. —

A. Booth, Chicago, Ill. Accession 14296; catalogue 34743. A shad,
Clupea sapidissima, from the Columbia River.

Walter Haydon, Weston, Ontario. Accession 14306; catalogue 34821-
34831. Ten species of fishes from Hudson’s Bay, as follows: Perca
americana, Cottus labradoricus, Uranidea spilota, Hsox lucius, Percopsis
guttatus, Catostomus longirostris, Salvelinus fontinalis, Stizostedium vit-
reum, Coregonus labradoricus, Coregonus artedi var.

E. G. Blackford, 80 Fulton Market, New York, N. Y. Accession 14311.
A halibut weighing 430 pounds, from Newfoundland. This specimen
was cast and skinned.

S. J. Martin, Gloucester, Mass. Accession 14417; catalogue 34883.
A specimen of the black grouper, Epinephelus nigritus, weighing 300
pounds. Captured off Block Island. This is a species belonging to
our southern coast; it strayed out of its native waters.

REPORT OF DEPARTMENT OF FISHES. 163

E.G. Blackford, 80 Fulton Market, New York, N. Y. Accession 14480;
catalogue. 34884. A pompano, Trachynotus goreensis, weighing 36
pounds.

Prof. D. S. Jordan, Bloomington, Ind. Accession 14486; catalogue,

A large collection of fishes from Cuba and Florida, containing
many new species.

U.S. Fish Commission Steamer Albatross. Accession 14286; catalogue
34853-34881, 54887-34903, 54905-34963, A tankof fishes from Saint
Thomas, Trinidad, Curacao, and Key West, Fla.

Prof. C. H. Gilbert, Rockford, Ill. Accession 14525; catalogue 34979
34983, A small collection of Illinois fishes, containing types of the
following new species: Nocomis hyostomus, Notropis boops, and Pecil-
ichthys palustris.

Capt. T. W. Sumpter, Big Spring, Va. Accession 14523; catalogue

- 34978. A rainbow trout, Salmo irideus, taken in Roanoke River,
June 13, 1884.

EB. 0. Smith, Newport, R. I. Accession 14543; catalogue 34988. A
specimen of Chetodipterus faber, caught at Newport. An unusual
species in that locality.

Capt. George A. Johnson, Gloucester, Mass. Accession 14589; catalogue
35110. A specimen of Chiasmodus niger, from Brown’s Bank. Captain
Johnson says it was taken alive, and was very ferocious.

J. Dock Harrell, Osyka, Miss. Accession 14606; catalogue 35144. A
specimen of striped bass, Roccus septentrionalis, which species is now
reported in large schools of varying sized fish in that part of the Lower
Mississippi Valley.

Prof. 8. F. Baird, Wood’s Holl, Mass. Accession 14614; catalogue
35136. A specimen of the frigate mackerel, Au«is rochei.

Frank G. Galbraith, Wrightsville, York County, Pennsylvania. Acces-
sion 14624; catalogue 35137. A mirror carp, Cyprinus carpio, 19 inches
long, taken in the Susquehanna River.

U. 8. Fish Commission, Wood’s Holl, Mass. Accession 14759; catalogue
——. Fifteen bottles of the rarer deep-sea fishes obtained by the
Albatross.

Prof. D. 8. Jordan, Bloomington, Ind. Accession 14828. A large col-
lection of fresh-water fishes from Iowa and Missouri, containing
many new and rare species.

Prof. D. 8. Jordan, Bloomington, Ind. Accession 14881. Fresh-water
fishes from Southern Missouri, Kansas, Arkansas, Indian Territory,
Indiana, and elsewhere. In this and the preceding lot there are
about twenty-five new species and a hundred desiderata.

J. A. Duguo ?, Gloucester, Mass. Accession 14965; catalogue 36601.
A specimen of Trachypterus arcticus from Iceland.

Prof. D. 8. Jordan, Bloomington, Ind. Accessions 15002 and 15011;
catalogue Numerous species of fishes from Indiana and
Texas,

164 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884.

Dr. T. H. Bean, U. S. National Museum, Washington, D. C. Accession
15031. Sixty-three species of marine and fresh-water. fishes from
Great South Bay, Long Island, and vicinity.

Prof. C. H. Gilbert, Bloomington, Ind. Accession 15056. A box of
fishes from Alabama, including new species of darters, minnows, cat-
fishes, &c.

E. 8. Stover, Albuquerque, N. Mex. Accession 15114; catalogue 56891.
Six specimens of carp, Cyprinus carpio, raised in alkali water.

James G. Swan, Port Townsend, Wash. Accession 15152; catalogue

This collection includes, among other things, a beautiful
example of Chirolophus polyactocephalus, Pallas, which has not been
known south of Alaska before.

Peter Smith, Chaptico, Saint Mary’s County, Maryland. Accession 15412;
catalogue 36919. A mirror carp, Cyprinus carpio, weighing 11 pounds,
which was caught in Wicomico Bay, in brackish water.

Dr. W. H. Jones, U. S. 8S. Wachusett, Callao, Peru. Accession 15224;
catalogue 36928-36934. A small collection of marine fishes contain-
ing a Trachurus, a Scomber, a Sciceena, an Ophichthys, and several re-

markably large Gobiesox, measuring about a foot in length.

.
.
;

ENTRIES IN THE CATALOGUE OF FISHES DURING 1884.

The total number of entries in the catalogue was 3,015, the first entry
being 33920 and the last 56934.
This number was distributed through the different months as shown

in a table further on.

Table showing some of the work upon the collection of fishes during 1884.

Lots of Lots of Fish draw-
Months. fish fish cata-

received. logued.

Packages

sent out. ee

amined.*

Se
CAacoanu
2
oa

nw —
enw
ADmS
—
De Tee ose
—
oa

EDEN DOM UCL s 225. s- ewinta slemeeaie swe Omnitele ea lanee seins Pf Rasen Oo eos ese Sey
OGTR DEL te sone Se arama mn et Ceeiae ici aeons Sie Cine weirs 10 1, 357
27

1
INGVOMMDOL’. veseccsctosnatesscne tesco sae en cteeoonase as 3 5
December Ee PO mer Pry et eae ORO e SO SG ose 5 25 5

ST CE Ee Sere So aeUedoe ASSoe corer Seema = 93 3, 015 54 117

* Ten drawings, made by Miss Smith, not included here.
WORK DONE UPON THE FISHES DURING 1884.

The notes on fishes, made by me while in Europe, in 1883, were ar- a |
ranged for the printer. ‘

A large and valuable collection of fishes, received from J.C. Bre-
yoort through HE. G. Blackford, were identified and catalogued.

a
;
idee

ie)

oe

~~) VL aa A ee

Se

Sees Y

Aas by i ood) Oe

ea fa
2

REPORT OF DEPARTMENT OF FISHES. 165

A collection of Jamaican fishes, including nearly one hundred spe-
cies, sent here in duplicate for identification, by the Kingston Public
Museum of Jamaica, was attended to. This is an important accession
to the collection of fishes.

The fresh-water fishes were all removed to the west basement, where
Prof. D. S. Jordan, during the months of July and August, worked
over the entire collection, verifying the old identifications and re-ar-
ranging the collections generally. Many of these fishes were found to
be absolutely worthless, and consequently were thrown away.

A journal relating to the fishes of Wood’s Holl, Mass., and vicinity,
kept by Mr. V. N. Edwards, from 1872 to 1880, is being revised for pub-
lication.

The large accessions required considerable attention, especially those
from the deep sea. On account of the large number of gifts numerous
lists were made for the donors and other information concerning the
fishes was furnished.

During the mouths of July and August my time was mostly taken up
with editorial work.

I left Washington for Patchogue, Great South Bay, N. Y., with two
of my assistants, Messrs. Bean and Dresel, on the 2d of September.
We spent about six weeks collecting fishes, principally marine species,
in Great South Bay and the ponds in the vicinity of Patchogue.

The work upon the bottled collection of marine fishes was commenced,
and the different series will be made up as rapidly as possible.

FISH DRAWINGS COMPLETED BY MISS M. M. SMITH, 1884.

Brimyzon goodei, Lateral view.
838. Ichthelurus furcatus. Lateral, head from above, and ventral
views.
35631. Chimerid. Lateral, head from above, and ventral views.
35415. Psenes. Lateral view.
39634, Alepocephalid? Lateral view.
35559. Alepocephalid? Lateral view.
35540. Astronesthes richardsonii. Lateral view.
39635. Bathypterois. Lateral view.
30625, Brotulid. Lateral view.
33958. Coregonus artedi. Lateral view.

LIST OF THE FISHES DRAWN BY MR. H. L. TODD DURING 1884.

January :
52888. Catostomus longirostrum. Lateral and ventral views.
16633. Salmo plewriticus. Lateral view.
30176. Trachynotus glaucus. Lateral view.
29882. Physiculus. Lateral view.
31917. Epinephelus drummond-hayi. Lateral view.
166

REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884.

February :

27657.

17113.
17800.
31482.
33197.
26564.

Pristis pectinatus. Lateral view.
Ophiodon elongatus. Lateral view.

Mola rotunda. Lateral view. From cast.
Bothus maculatus. Lateral view.
Minytrema melanops. Lateral view.
Pomacanthus zonipectus. Lateral view.
Pomacanthus arcuatus (ad.). Lateral view.
Calamus pennatula. Lateral view.

March :

33189.
34397.
13087.
16252.
35041.

5815.
21500.
26575.
30862.

Anisotremus virginicus. Lateral view.
Alutera scripta. Lateral view.

Blepharis crinitus. Lateral view.

Vomer setipinnis. Lateral view.
Alepocephalus productus. Lateral view.
Hemistoma guacamaia. Lateral view.
Xyrichthys vermiculatus. Lateral view.
Citharichthys microstomus. Lateral view.
Htropus crossotus. Lateral view.
Paralichthys squamilentus. Lateral view.
Scopelid. Lateral view.

April:

22832.
26585.
33220.
26583.

8247.
34742.

Menticirrus alburnus. Lateral view.
Trachynotus ovatus. Lateral view.
Lutjanus caxvis. Lateral view.
Ocyurus chrysurus. Lateral view.
Hemulon chromis. Lateral view.
Oncorhynchus nerka. Lateral view.

May:

54744.
30057.
23458.
17869.

1813.
30245.
23459.
26294.
23460.
27897.
17852,

1281.
27212.

Percina caprodes. Lateral view.
Hemulon fremebundum.

Percina manitou. Lateral view.
Diplesium blennioides. Lateral view.
Pecilichthys ceruleus. Lateral view.
Boleosoma olmstedi. Lateral view.
Alvordius crassus (type). Lateral view.
Alvordius phoxocephalus. Lateral view.°
Boleichthys eos (type). Lateral view.
Etheostoma flabellare. Lateral view.
Imostoma shumardi. Lateral view.
Etheostoma lineolatum. Lateral view.

Torpedo californica. Lateral, dorsal, and ventral views.

June:

23445. Vaillantia camura. Lateral view.
21994, Plewrolepis asprellus. Lateral view.

REPORT OF DEPARTMENT OF FISHES. 167

23454. Nanostoma vincticeps. Lateral view.

(CLXXIV.) Benthosaurus grailator. Lateral view.

a 34886. Umbra pygmea. Lateral view.

34401. Aphredoderus sayanus. Lateral view.

With 21994. Alvordius ? Lateral view.
Malacosteus niger. Lateral view.

23461. Rheocrypta copelandi (type). Lateral view.

1164. Alvordius macrocephalus. Lateral view.

20354. Mesogonistius chetodon. Lateral view.

34957. Hamulon rimator. Lateral view.

32095. Eques lanceolatus. Lateral view.

23456. Pecilichthys virgatus. Lateral view.

23465. Ioa vitrea. Lateral view.

33915. Emblemaria nivipes. Lateral view.

(Station 2146.) Diodon. Lateral view.

July:

35035. Hemulon album. Lateral view.
7987. Ostracion trigonum. Lateral view.
35135. Tetrodon levigatus. Lateral view.
7 35136. Auxis rochei. Lateral view.
30824. Chasmodes saburre (types). Lateral view.
a 30856. Isesthes ionthas (types). Lateral view.
; 35173. Sparisoma cyanolene. Lateral view.

eee)

August:

£ 39081. Diplodus unimaculatus. Lateral view.

“ 35086. Myrophis. Lateral view.

: 22821. Polynemus octonemus. Lateral view.

B, 34896. Aulostoma maculatum. Lateral view.
30177. Caranx amblyrhynchus. Lateral view.
19907. Centropomus undecimalis. Lateral view.
228351. Harengula pensacole. Lateral view.
530071. Clupea pseudohispanica. Lateral view.
39042. Calamus bajonado. Lateral view.
35030. Lutjanus analis. Lateral view.

September:

35150. Haemulon teniatum. Lateral view.
Cryptotomus beryllinus. Lateral view.

35155. Gobionellus oceanicus. Lateral view.

3423. Hypoplectrus nigricans. Lateral view.
35021. Epinephelus microlepis. Lateral view.
30060. Tetrodon testudineus. Lateral and upper views.
35799. Paralichthys ocellaris. Lateral view.

3424. Acanthurus chirurgus. Lateral view.
168

REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884

October:

33181.
35168.
36212.
36215.
35828.
36444.
36525.

1514,
35853.
35946.
34004.
36442,
36214.
36496,
36446.
36139.
35101.

Echeneis naucrates.
Platyglossus radiatus.
Pecilichthys punctulatus.
Hadropterus cymatogrammus,
Ammocrypta clara.
Ammocrypta vivax.
Microperca fonticola (type).
Cottogaster putnami.
Pecilichthys gilberti.
Anguilla.

Nanostoma thalassinum.
Etheostoma whipplei.
Hadropterus niangue.
Hadropterus evides.
Hadropterus scierus.
Etheostoma luteocinctum.
Scorpena grandicornis.

November:

36448.
36413.
34972.
36889.
39105.
34447,
21903.
301438.
31975.
36911.

Etheostoma histrio.
Cottogaster uranidea.
Platophrys nebularis.
Chirolophus polyactocephalus.
Trisotropis venenosus.
Antennarius annulatus.
Limanda rostrata ?
Chetodon capistratus.
Anoplopoma fimbria.
Cyprinus carpio.

December:

36053
36052

36020.

35001
36922

Fundulus diaphanus.
Fundulus heteroclitus.
Gobiosoma alepidotum.
Beostoma inscriptus.
Lutjanus synagris.

During the year forty-one papers, based upon material belonging to
the department, were published in the Proceedings for 1884.

The number of specimens now in the Museum is not definitely known,

PRESENT STATE OF THE COLLECTION.

but it is estimated to be about 68,000, divided as follows: (1) In the
reserve series, 36,000; (2) On exhibition, 20,000; (3) Duplicates about

12,000.

The condition of the collection has been greatly improved py trans-
ferring the fishes from old tanks into new ones and into glass jars.

eae Oe we >

YS ee
REPORT OF DEPARTMENT OF FISHES. 169

There is, of course, some material which must be called distinctly bad,
but the amount is becoming less and less every day.

RECOMMENDATIONS AND GENERAL REMARKS.

The duplicate fishes should be disposed of as soon as the sets can be
made up.

There should also be some instructions to collectors, cautioning them
against shipping large numbers of fishes belonging to well-known species.

Some provisions should be made for a proper storage of the skele-
tons of fishes, which are now lying in boxes, where they are inacces-
sible.

I take pleasure in referring again to the assistance which I have de-
rived from the following-named gentlemen in my work upon the fishes:
Mr. Barton A. Bean, Ensign H. G. Dresel, U. S. N., and Mr. Peter
Parker, jr. Without the valuable help of these gentlemen much of the
work which has been accomplished would have remained undone.

The Museum is to be congratulated also upon the addition to its
corps of artists of Miss Mary M. Smith, of Bainbridge, Pa. Through
the help of Mr. H. L. Todd and Miss Smith we are now able to produce
very satisfactory illustrations of fishes.

I herewith append a statement, prepared by Prof. D. S. Jordan, re-
garding the collections of fishes made by himself under the auspices of
the Smithsonian Institution, the Museum, and the Fish Commission.
The collecting expedition of 1834 is of special value, being probably
the most extensive yet undertaken in the fresh waters of the United
States. The object of this exploration was the gathering together of a
collection of fresh-water tishes to be exhibited by the National Museum
at New Orleans.

A RECORD OF COLLECTIONS OF FISHES MADE UNDER THE
AUSPICES OF THE U.S. FISH COMMISSION AND THE U.
S. NATIONAL MUSEUM, FROM 1875 TO 1885.

By Davib 8S. JORDAN.

For the past ten years the writer has been engaged in a special study
of the distribution of fishes in the waters of North America. In this
study he has had occasion to do a good deal of field work in the collec-
tion of and preservation of fishes. In this he has been aided by sey-
eral students and associates, especially by Mr. Charles H. Gilbert, now
professor of biology in the University of Cincinnati.

All this work has been carried on under the auspices of the U.S.

National Museum and the U.S. Fish Commission. It has been per-
formed, in a greater or less degree, under the direction of Professor
Baird, and in all cases most of the material obtained, including the
types of all new species, has been sent to the U.S. National Museum.
170 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 18834.

The amount of financial assistance received from Government sources
has varied very much. At times (1880-’84) it has amounted to consid-
erably more than the actual expenses of exploration and collection.
At other times it has simply met the cost of the alcohol used. Aid of
varying amount has also been given by Butler University and, since
1879, by the University of Indiana. These details are, however, foreign
to the present purpose. [here give a brief account of the different
excursions for field work in ichthyology, made by my associates and
myself, with a list of the localities explored.

1875.

In the spring and fall of 1875, extensive collections were made in
White River and its tributaries about Indianapolis, by the late Prof.
Herbert E. Copeland and myself. <A list of the species obtained is
published in the Annals of the Lyceum of Natural History, of New York,
1877, pp. 375-377. Some collections were also made by Professor Cope-
land in Wisconsin and by myself at the Falls of the Ohio and about

Cumberland Gap.
1876.

In the summer of 1876 I made an extended collecting tour in the
Southern States, accompanied by Mr. Charles H. Gilbert, who was then
a botanical student under Professor Copeland. A small collection was
obtained in the Rock Castle River, at Livingston, Ky. About three
weeks were spent by us at Rome, Ga. Here the streams tributary to
the Etowah, Oostanaula, and Coosa Rivers were very thoroughly ex-
plored. A few days were also spent at Flat Shoals, on South River, a
tributary of the Ocmulgee, southeast of Atlanta. Small collections
were also made in Peach Tree Creek and in Nancy’s Creek, tributaries
of the Chattahoochee, near Atlanta.

This expedition represents the first attempt to study the fresh-water
fishes of Georgia, and the collection then made is much larger than
any since obtained in that State. The results of this summer’s work
have been published by me, under the title of “A Partial Synopsis of
the Fishes of Upper Georgia,” in the Annals of the Lyceum of Natural
History of New York, XI, 1877, p. 307 et seq.

1877.

In 1877 a more extended tour in the Alleghany region of the Southern
States was undertaken by the writer, with the assistance of Dr. Alem-
bert W. Brayton and Mr. Gilbert. Numerous streams were examined,
representing the following hydrographic basins: Santee, Savannah,
Altamaha, Chattahoochee, Alabama, Tennessee, Cumberland. A de- |
tailed report of these explorations was-published by Jordan and Bray-
ton in Bulletin XII of the U. S. National Museum, 1878, under the title,
‘On the Distribution of the Fishes of the Alleghany Region of South

£ REPORT OF DEPARTMENT OF FISHES. Ltt

- Carolina, Georgia, and Tennessee, with Descriptions of New or Little

*

Known Species.” An extended discussion of the distribution of fresh-
water fishes is given in this paper, pp. 91-95.

1878.

In 1878 I spent some time at Beaufort, N. C., in the study of the
marine fishes of that port. Im my work here | was assisted by Dr.
Brayton, Mr. Gilbert, and Mr. Bb. W. Evermann. A catalogue of the
species obtained was published in the Proceedings of the U.S. National
Museum, 1878, pp. 365-388, by Jordan and Gilbert, under the title of
* Notes on the Fishes of Beaufort Harbor, North Carolina.”

1879.

The summer of 1879 was spent in Europe. Considerable collections
were made by Mr. Gilbert and myself at Venice.

1880.

In November, 1879, [ was appointed special agent of the U. S. Census
Bureau, in charge of the enumeration of the fisheries and otber marine

_ interests of the Pacific coast of the United States. I was also in-

structed by the U. S. Commissioner of Fisheries to undertake a thorough

_ study of the fish-fauna of that region, and to make extensive collections

of the fishes for distribution by the U. 8S. National Museum to the chief
museums of the world.

Mr. Charles H. Gilbert was appointed assistant in this work. Special
assistance in Puget Sound was rendered by Mr. James G. Swan, of Neah

_ Bay, and about San Francisco by Mr. William N. Lockington, then of

San Francisco. Important volunteer aid was also given by Miss Rosa

Smith, of San Diego, by Mr. Charles J. Smith, then of Astoria, and by

Capt. Andrea Larco, of Santa Barbara.
Mr. Gilbert and the writer reached San Diego about January 1,1885.
The time between that date and November 1 was devoted to an ex-

_ploration of the coast from the Mexican boundary as far north as Saanich

on Vancouver's Island, most of the important points being visited at,

least twice, at different seasons.

The chief points at which collections were made are San Diego, San
Pedro (Wilmington), Santa Barbara, San Luis Obispo (Port Hartford),

Monterey, Soquel, San Francisco, Humboldt Bay, Astoria, Neah Bay,

Seattle, Tacoma, Victoria, Saanich Arm, and New Westminster.
Few coasts have yet been so thoroughly explored, so far as the shore
fishes are concerned. We had, however, no means of collecting fishes

from any great depth. The results of these explorations have been given

in numerous short papers in the Proceedings of the U. 5. National Mu-
seum for 1880 and 1881, in the Synopsis of the Fishes of North America,
andin other papers. Ourreports to the U.S Census Bureau still re-
1%2 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884.

main unpublished. Some 55 speties new to science were obtained by
this expedition, and the number of species of shore fishes known from
the Pacfie coast of California, Oregon, and Washington was raised from
about 200 to nearly 275. Series of specimens containing each from 50
to 250 of these species have been distributed to some 75 different mu-
seams, in various parts of the world.

The most important result of our work on the Pacific coast is prob-
ably the solution of the problem as to the number of species of salmon
(Oncorhynchus) inhabiting the North Pacific. Similar results were
reached at the same time by Dr. T. H. Bean, who was then carrying on
explorations in Alaska.

On my return to the East I visited Utah Lake. Here, with the assist-
ance of Peter Madsen, a fisherman at Provo, I made a considerable col-
lection of fishes, some of them new to science. These have been deseribed
by Jordan and Gilbert in the Proceedings of the U.S. National Mu-
seum, 1880, 459.

After finishing his work in California in November, 1880, Mr. Gilbert.

continued his explorations southward, spending the winter at Mazatlan
and Panama, returning from Colon to Washington in the spring of 1881.
A remarkably rich and carefully preserved collection was obtained from
the Pacific coast of Mexico and Central America. This included some
60 species new to science. These have been described in several papers
by Jordan and Gilbert in the Proceedings of the U. 8. National Museum
and Bulletin of the U.S. Fish Commisson in 1881 and 1882. An elabo-
rate paper containing synonymy and detailed descriptions of all the

species of fishes known from the Pacific coast of tropical America was —

prepared by us for publication. This was destroyed by tire in 1883 when
nearly ready for the press.
1881.
The summer of 1881 was spent in Kurope. Collections were made in

Genoa and Venice.
1882.

In the spring of 1882 I visited Galveston, New Orleans, and Pensacola, |

making a considerable collection at each point. The most important
part of this collection was that obtained at Pensacola, with the assist-
ance of Mr. Silas Stearns. The collections of fishes made by Mr. Stearns
at Pensacola are among the most important which the National Museum
has received from any source. The results of this expedition were pub-
lished by Jordan and Gilbert in the Proceedings of the U. 8. National
Museum for 1882, pp. 241-307.

Part of the summer of the same year was spent by Professor Gilbert
at Charleston, S. ©. In his work here Professor Gilbert received im-
portant aid from Mr. Charles C. Leslie. The results of his explorations
were published by Jordan and Gilbert in Proceedings of the U.S. Na-
tional Museum, 1882, pp. 580-620.
REPORT OF DEPARTMENT OF FISHES. 173
1883.

The winter of 1882~’83 was spent by Professor Gilbert in making col-
lections of fishes at Panama and at neighboring points on both sides of
the Isthmus as well as in the fresh waters of the Isthmus and of Costa

Rica. A large collection obtained was extremely rich in fresh-water

forms and contained some 40 species new to science. It was unfortu-
nately totally destroyed by the burning of the museum building of the
Indiana University, July 12, 1883.

At this time about one-third of the collection previously made by
Professor Gilbert at Mazatlan and Panama was also destroyed, as well
as the private collections of Professor Gilbert and myself, which were
very rich in the department of fishes. Nothing was published concern-
ing these collections of 1883.

In the spring of 1883 a small collection of fishes was made in the
Clear Fork of the Cumberland River by Mr. Joseph Swain and the
writer. After the fire a third collection was made at Venice by Mr.
Swain and myself. Small collections were also obtained at Wood's
Holl, Mass., and in different streams of Indiana.

In November and December, 1883, I undertook a reconnaissance of
the fish-fauna of the Florida Keys. A day was spent at Jacksonville,
Fla., a few days at Cedar Keys, Fla., about three weeks at Key West,
Fla., and nearly two weeks in Havana. In this work I was assisted by
Mr. William H. Dye, a student of Indiana University. Large collec-
tions were obtained, especially at Key West and at Havana—upwards
of 25 species being new to science. The collections made in Florida
have been described in different papers in the Proceedings of the
U.S. National Museum for 1884. Those from Havana have not yet
been placed on record.

1884.

In July 1884 I was asked by Prof. G. Brown Goode, curator of the
U.S. National Museum, to take charge of a series of explorations of the
streams of the Southern States, to be undertaken in connection with
the New Orleans Exposition. In this work I was assisted by Professor
Gilbert, Prof. Joseph Swain, and Mr. Seth E. Meek.

Field work was begun early in July by Professors Gilbert and
Swain in different streams in Indiana. Later they extended their ex-
plorations southward, making collections in the Rolling Fork, the Rock
Castle, Cumberland, Clinch, French Broad, and Stone’s Rivers; later
in the tributaries of the Tennessee, about Florence, Tuscumbia, and
Huntsville, in Alabama, and in those of the Blaek Warrior, about
Cullman, Blount Springs, Warrior, and Tuscaloosa. This exploration
of the Tennessee basin brought to light a number of new forms, espe-
cially in the group of Ltheostomina.

' Meanwhile the writer, assisted by Mr. Seth EH. Meek, began field
work in the Des Moines River, in Southern Iowa. The Des Moines,
174 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884.

Chariton, and Hundred and Two Rivers, in Iowa, were investigated, —

and the Missouri, La Mine, and Osage, in Missouri. After a time I
was obliged to return to Indiana for a few days, and Professor Gilbert,
with Mr. Meek’s assistance, continued the work in tributaries of the
Neosho, Osage, White, Niangua, and Gasconade, in Southern Missouri.
T rejoined them at Kureka Springs, in Arkansas, where we made large
collections in White River. Here Mr. Meek left us, and Mr. Gilbert
and I proceeded to Fort Smith, where we made collections in Lee’s
Creek, the Poteau River, and the Arkansas. Proceeding southwest-
ward from Little Rock, we explored in succession the Saline River at
Benton, the Washita River at Arkadelphia, the Red River at Fulton,
the Sabine River at Longview, the Trinity River at Dallas, the Lam-
pasas and Leon Rivers at Belton, the Colorado River at Austin, the Rio
Blanco and San Marcos Rivers at San Marcos, and the Rio Comal at
New Braunfels. From New Braunfels we returned to Washington.

The explorations in 1884 are in several respects the most extensive
yet undertaken in the fresh waters of the United States. As results
of the summer’s work a considerable number of new species have been
added to our lists. The range of many species hitherto supposed to be
rare and local has been greatly extended, and numerous species sup-
posed to be well distinguished have been shown to be geographical
varieties of others. We have been enabled in many cases to recognize
subspecies among our fresh-water fishes and to properly distinguish
these from individual and accidental variations. This work cannot be
fully done until all our interior waters have been explored. There still
remain many hydrographic basins in which no collections have yet
been made.

RESUME.

I give here a classified table of the principal localities at which col-
lections have been made:

Marine.

Atlantic shores :

Wood’s Holl, Mass.

Charleston, 8. ©. (Gilbert.)

Beaufort, N. C. (Jordan, Gilbert, and Brayton.)

Galveston, ‘Tex.

Pensacola, Fla. (Jordan and Stearns.)

Cedar Key, Fla.

Key West, Fla.

Havana, Cuba.

Colon (Aspinwall), United States of Colombia. (Gilbert.)
Pacific :

Panama, United States of Colombia. (Gilbert.)

Mazatlan, Mexico. (Gilbert.)

ttle nly

Se =<
REPORT OF DEPARTMENT OF FISHES. 175

/
 Pacific—Continued.

= Oa A es a een ae

SD ee

a i sk

Sa

|
|
|

San Diego, Cal. (Jordan and Gilbert.)

San Pedro, Cal. (J. & G.)

Santa Barbara, Cal. (J. & G.)

San Luis Obispo, Cal. (J. & G.)

Monterey, Cal. (J. & G.)

Soquel, Cal. (J. & G.)

San Francisco, Cal. (J. & G.)

Tomales Bay, California. (J. & G.)
Humboldt Bay, California. (Gilbert.)
Astoria, Oreg. (Columbia River). (J. & G.)
‘Neah Bay, Wash. (J. &G.)

Seattle, Wash. (J. & G.)

Tacoma, Wash. (J. & G.)

Victoria, British Columbia. (J. & G.)
Saanich Arm, British Columbia. (J. & G.)
New Westminster, British Columbia (Fraser’s River). (Gilbert.)

Fresh waters.

Great Lake Basin :
Cayuga Lake, Ithaca, N.Y.
East Coy Creek (Genesee River), Gainesville, N. Y.
Lake Erie.
Lake Michigan.-
Kantakee River, Riverside, Ind. (Gilbert.)
Kox River, Appleton, Wis.
Little Suamico River, Wisconsin.
Santee Basin :
Ennoree River, Chick’s Springs, 8. C. (Jordan, Brayton, and Gil-
bert.)
Reedy River, Greenville, 8. C. (J., B. & G.)
Saluda River, Tarr’s Mills, S.C. (J., B. & G.)
Savannah Basin:
Tugaloo River, Georgia. (J., B. & G.)
Panther Creek, Georgia. (J., B. & G.)
Toccoa Creek, Toccoa Falls, Ga. (J., B. & G.)

: -Altamaha Basin:

Oconee River, Sulphur Springs, Ga. (B. & G.)
South River (Ocmulgee), Flat Shoals, Ga. (J. & G.)
Chattahoochee Basin:
Chattahoochee River, Shallow Ford, Gainesville, Ga.
Suwanee River, Suwanee, Ga. (J., B. & G.),
» Peach Tree Creek, Atlanta, Ga. (J. & G.)
Nancy’s Creek, Atlanta, Ga. (J. & G.)
176 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884.

Alabama Basin :
Etowah River, Rome, Ga. (J. & G.)
Silver Creek, Rome, Ga. (J. & G.)
Dyke’s Creek, Rome, Ga. (J. & G.)
Oostanaula River, Rome, Ga. (J. & G.)
Rocky Creek, Floyd Springs, Ga. (J. & G.)
John’s Creek, Floyd Springs, Ga. (J. & G.)
Lovejoy’s Creek, Floyd Springs, Ga. (J. & Gi)
Big Armuchee Creek, Rome, Ga. (J. & G.)
Big Dry Creek, Rome, Ga. (J. & G.)
Little Dry Creek, Rome, Ga. (J. & G.)
Waters’ Creek, Rome, Ga. (J. & G.)
Lavender Creek, Texas Valley, Ga. (J. & G.)
Coosa River, Rome, Ga. (J. & G.)
Beech Creek, Rome, Ga. (J. & G.)
Horse-Leg Creek, Rome, Ga. (J. & G.)
Little Cedar Creek, Cave Springs, Ga. (J., B. & G.)

Black Warrior Basin: ;
Black Warrior River, Warrior and Morris, Ala. (G. & 8.)
Black Warrior River, Tuscaloosa, Ala. (G. & 8.)
North River, Tuscaloosa, Ala. (G. & 8.)
HKight-Mile Creek, Cullman, Ala. (G. & 8.)
Cold Creek, Blount Springs, Ala. (G. & 8.)

Tennessee Basin :
Powell’s River, Cumberland Gap, Tenn.
Indian Creek, Cumberland Gap, Tenn.
Clinch River, Clinton, Tenn. (G.& 8.)
Bull Run, Bull Run, Tenn. (G. &S.)
Big Creek, Big Creek, Tenn. (G.&S.)
Big Pigeon River, Clifton, Tenn. (J. & G.)
French Broad River, Wolf Creek, Tenn: (G.&8.)
Wolf Creek, Wolf Creek, Tenn. (G. &8.)
Chickamauga River, Ringgold, Ga. (J., B. & G.)
Tennesee River, Florence, Ala. (G. &S.)
Big Cypress Creek, Florence, Ala. (G. & 8.)
Little Cypress Creek, Florence, Ala. (G.& 58.)
Big Shoal Creek, Florence, Ala. (G. &S8.)
Sweetwater Creek, Florence, Ala. (G. &8S.)
Spring Creek, Tuscumbia, Ala. (G. &8.)
Spring Branch, Huntsville, Ala. (G. &8.)
Elk River, Estill Springs, Tenn. (J., B. & G.)
Duck River, Columbia, Tenn. (G. &58.)
Cumberland Basin :
Rock Castle River, Livingston, Ky. (J. & G., G. &8.)
Cumberland River, Williamsburg, Ky. (J. &S., G. &8.)

eee ae 2 ee ee ee eee ee

pe So
REPORT OF DEPARTMENT OF FISHES. 1

Cumberland Basin—Continued.
Clear Fork of Cumberland, Pleasant View, Ky. (J. &8., G.&8.)
Wolf Creek, Pleasant View, Ky. (J.&S.&G.58.)
Stone’s River, Murfreesboro’, Tenn. (J., B. & G.)
Stone’s River, Nashville, Tenn. (G. &S.)
Harpeth River, Franklin, Tenn. (G.&S8.)
Mississippi Basin:
Ohio River, New Albany, Ind. (G.&S8.)
Rolling Fork, New Haven and New Market, Ky. (G.& 8.)
White River (West Fork), Indianapolis, Ind. (J. & C., &e.)
Fall Creek, Indianapolis, Ind.
White River, Gosport, Ind.
Bean Blossom Creek, Bloomington, Ind.
White River (East Fork), Bedford, Ind.
Salt Creek, Nashville, Ind.
Clear Creek, Bloomington, Ind.
White River Swamps, Switz City, Ind. (Gilbert.)
Raccoon Creek, Mecca, Ind. (Gilbert.)
Wisconsin River, Dalles, Wis. (Copeland.)
Mississippi River, Burlington, Iowa. (Jordan & Meek.)
Des Moines River, Ottumwa, lowa. (J. & M.)
Village Creek, Ottumwa, Iowa. (J. & M.)
Chariton River, Chariton, lowa. (J. & M.)
Hundred and Two River, Bedford, Iowa. (J. & M.)
Hundred and Two River, Maryville, Mo. (J. & M.)
Missouri River, Saint Joseph, Mo. (J. & M.)
Tabo Creek, Lexington, Mo. (J. & M.)
Blackwater Creek, Brownsville, Mo. (J. & M.)
Flat Creek, Sedalia, Mo. (J. & M.)
Brown Springs (Creek), Sedalia, Mo. (J. & M.)
Tebo Creek, Calhoun, Mo. (J. &M.)
Grand River (Osage), Clinton, Mo. (J. & M.)
Sac River, Greenfield, Mo. (G. & M.)
Turnback Creek, Greenfield, Mo. (G.&. M.)
Osage Fork of Gasconade River, Marshfield, Mo. (G. & M.)
Niangua River, Marshfield, Mo. (G.&M.)
Spring River (Neosho), Carthage, Mo. (G.& M.)
White River (Narrows, Eureka Springs, Ark.). (J., G. & M.)
King’s River, Eureka Springs, Ark. (J.,G. & M.)
James Fork of White River, Marshfield, Mo. (G.& M.)
Arkansas River, Fort Smith, Ark. (J. & G.)
Poteau River, Slate Ford, Ind. T. (J.&G.)
Lee’s Creek, Van Buren, Ark. (J. & G.)
Saline River, Benton, Ark. (J. & G.)
Washita River, Arkadelphia, Ark. (J. & G.)
8. Mis. 33, pt. 2 12

178 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884.

Mississippi Basin—Continued.
Red River, Fulton, Ark. (J.&G.)
Mississippi River, New Orleans, La.
Sabine Basin:
Sabine River, Longview, Tex. (J.& G.)
Trinity Basin:
Trinity River, Dallas, Tex. (J. &G.)
Brazos Basin:
Rio Lampasas, Belton, Tex. (J. & G.)
Leon River, Belton, Tex. (J. &G.)
- Colorado Basin:
Rio Colorado, Austin, Tex. (J. & G.)
Barton Spring and Creek, Austin, Tex. (J. &@G.)
Guadalupe Basin:
Rio Blanco, San Marcos, Tex. (J. &G.)
Rio San Marcos, San Marcos, Tex. (J. &G.)
Rio Comal, New Braunfels, Tex. (J. & G.)
Utah Basin:
Utah Lake. (Jordan and Madsen.)
Provo River, Provo, Utah. (Jordan aud Madsen.)
Sacramento Basin:
Sacramento River. (J. & G.)
Columbia Basin:
Columbia River, Astoria, &ce. (J. & G.)
Fraser’s Basin:
Fraser’s River, New Westminster, B. C. (Gilbert.)
INDIANA UNIVERSITY, January 15, 1885.

a de Fee a ee ee eee ee

roel

IX.—REPORT UPON THE DEPARTMENT OF MOLLUSKS IN THE
U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM FOR 1885.

By WititamM H. Dati, Honorary Curator.

The personnel of the department at present is as follows:

William H. Dall, paleontologist to the U.S. Geological Survey, hon-
orary curator.

Robert E. C. Stearns, U. 8S. Geological Survey, assistant curator.

Miss Agnes Nicholson, clerical assistant.

Mr. R. E. Call, temporary assistant.

At the beginning of the year the writer was still occupied by duties
at the U.S. Coast and Geodetic Survey, which engaged him during
the working hours of the day. In June the health of Mr. R. E. C.
Stearns having improved he came on to Washington and accepted a
post in the U.S. Geological Survey which incidentally included work
on the Quaternary fossils and recent allies in the National collection.
He was therefore assigned to duty as assistant curator of the Depart-
ment of Conchology and at once entered upon the work. Owing to the
decision of the Director, in accordance with the requirements of Con-
gress in regard to the New Orleans Exposition, to exhibit a series of
mollusks and shelJs from the Museum, Mr. Stearns was requested by
me to take entire charge of the preparation and organization of the
exhibit. He was very busily engaged until the middle of December in
perfecting and packing the series which was finally dispatched to its
destination. It comprised twenty large table cases exhibiting the
economical mollusks of both coasts and of adjacent seas, the fresh-
water mussels which form so remarkable a part of the fauna of the
great Mississippi Basin, &c., a complete review of which will more ap-
propriately come in, in the report of the year now opening, after the
close of the exhibition.

To assist in this work Mr. R. Ellsworth Call, who has especial knowl-
edge of the land and fresh-water mollusks of North America, was en-

gaged for a period of six months.

In September the curator, desiring to devote his time more especially
to biological investigation, resigned his position in the U. S. Coast
Survey and accepted the post of paleontologist for the Quaternary
invertebrates, offered by the Director of the U.S. Geological Survey.

179
~

180 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1834.

The national collection of Quaternary shells and their recent allies being
necessarily the source of identification of such fossils when newly col-
lected and their ultimate repository, with the permission of the Director
the curator.retained his honorary connection with the Museum, which
has lasted nearly twenty years. Work was immediately undertaken to
put the general collection in such order that the geologist desiring to
identify his fossils might do so with the least expenditure of time and
labor.

In view of the arrears of work to be made up this was no small under-
taking and the cenclusion of it by no means near at hand.

As the most immediate needs of the paleontologist are at this time
connected with the identification of the American land shells, that part
of the collection was first attacked, with the co-operation of Messrs.
Stearns and Call. It was placed in complete order, except so far as
depositing in cases is concerned, and as soon as the latter, now con-
structing, are in readiness the collection will be arranged in them ready
for examination and for use. The arrangement of the forms belonging
on our southern and southeastern coast, so long neglected and so im-
portant in connection with the later fossiliferous beds of our Southern
States, was undertaken by the curator himself, and a preliminary paper
by him on some recently acquired material from that region appeared
in the Proceedings of the Museum during the year. Incidentally it be-
came necessary to determine some of the well-known group of Cones,
and the entire collection belonging to that genus was carefully revised
and is now in condition for satisfactory reference.

The intimate connection between our deep-sea fauna and that of the Ter-
tiary beds of Southern Europe and the southern and western borders of
the United States is well known to geologists and naturalists. A good
deal of the leisure of the curator has been devoted to a study of the Gulf
and Caribbean deep-sea forms obtained by Prof. Alexander Agassiz
on the steamer Blake, a large number of which are already drawn for
the engraver, and a considerable amount of text has accumulated. This
fauna is intimately related to that of the formations of the isthmuses of
Panama and Nicaragua, which separate the two oceans. Were it pos-
sible to obtain fuller series of the rocks and fossils from that region, a
study of them would without doubt have an important bearing on the
projects for piercing the rocky barrier which now stands in the way of
commerce. The curator would recommend that, if it be possible, some
steps be taken to obtain such a collection, which from the excavations
now in progress at Panama would seem to be a work of no great diffi-
culty if a collector were once placed on the spot.

It is with great satisfaction that the curator is able to report that
heavy inroads have been made on the mass of material which has ac-
cumulated in the store-rooms of the Institution during the past ten years.
Much still remains, but a great deal has been examined, catalogued,
and assorted, partly for the reserve series and partly as duplicates for

;

Ani APD >
REPORT OF DEPARTMENT OF MOLLUSKS. 181

ultimate distribution to other museums or for exchange. Case room is
the great need of the department at present, and it will continue for
some time to be the most urgent want which presents itself. —

Looking forward to the time when the collection shall be in working
order and various suites now promised or in course of transmission shall
have arrived, we may anticipate that in all that relates to North America
and its adjacent seas the national collection as a whole will not be sur-
passed, or even equaled, in the world.

For the North Atlantic and British seas the collection of Dr. Gwyn
Jeffreys is now in process of transmission.

For the northeastern coast of the United States the collections of the
U. 8. Fish Commission will eventually be deposited in the Museum.
For the North Pacific, Bering and Arctic Seas the collections of Messrs.
Dall, Turner, Fisher, Murdoch, the United States Revenue Marine, and
others are already in the Museum and partly administered upon.

For the western coast of North America, from Puget Sound to Panama,
the original Carpenter collection has long been a part of the Museum,
and the Stearns collection has been recently acquired.

The preceding series are without doubt the finest and most valuable
in existence relating to their respective regions, both in extent and
scientific value.

For the Gulf coast, Antilles, and southeastern shores of the United
States much material is on hand and more will doubtless be acquired
very soon. It is the weakest section of our American collection at pres-
ent, but may, with the eee of the Fish Commission corps, not
= remain so.

The land and fresh-water shells of the great interior region of the
United States are well represented, though much more remains to be
done before the collection in this regard can claim completeness. The
series of types contributed by Mr. W. G. Binney, Dr. Isaac Lea, Henry
Hemphill, and others, when administered upon and taken in connection
with the Centennial collection arranged by Dr. James Lewis, will form
a very satisfactory series, and the gaps which nevertheless exist may
probably be filled by proper effort as the deficiencies become evident in
arranging the material in hand.

In exotic material the collection consists chiefly of the contributions
of the various United States exploring expeditions, Hon. Nicholas Pike
and other friends of the Museum, and, while including many valuable
types, bears no comparison in fullness and value to the strictly Ameri-
can sections, as, indeed, might naturally be expected.

A list of the chief accessions to the Department of Mollusks during
the year is appended to this report. Though work of an administrative
nature has occupied nearly all the time of the curator and his assistants,
yet some contributions to original research have been made during the
year. The most important of these are the determination of the syste-
matic relations of Vurbinella pyrum Linné, long a desideratum, and the
182 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884.

investigation of Chlamydoconcha, a remarkable form of bivalve mollusk,
with an internal shell, from California, which proves to be the type of a
new family.

A list of the chief publications by the curator during 1884 is appended.

The number of entries made in the mollusk register during the past —

year is 5,231, but this is far from indicating the total number of acces-

sions, the majority of which have been laid aside to be catalogued later, —

as occasion Serves.

The total number of molluscan specimens in the possession of the #

Museum cannot be stated, as fully half of them are not catalogued; but
it is safe to estimate them at not less than four hundred thousand, in-
cluding duplicates and specimens in spirits. The number of species
may approximate twenty thousand, but this is much more uncertain.

Several years must elapse before a definite enumeration can be made.

The number of entries in the mollusk register is about forty-one thou-

sand, but this necessarily includes numerous duplications of the same

species from different localities. .

The following accessions have been made to the collection in this de-
partment during the year:

Adams, 8S. F., Lakeside, Beadle County, Dakota. Specimens of Planorbis
trivolvis, from Dakota.

Baird, Prof. S. F., Secretary Smithsonian Institution and Director of
the National Museum. Pearl from Venus mercenaria L., obtained at
Wood's Holl, Mass., by T. 8S. Ellis. A remarkably large and fine ex-
ample.

Beauchamp, Kev. W. M., Baldwinsville, N. Y. Shells of Unio, Iimnea,
and Bithinia, from the State of New York.

Blochman, Lucien A., San Diego, Cal. Marine shells (Jatorina, Ostrea,
Cerithidea, &c.), from San Diego, Cal.

Call, R. Hulsworth, David City, Nebr. Land and fresh-water shells from
Utah and Nevada, including types of new species, &c. A valuable
series.

Specimens of Unio Wardii Lea, from Des Moines, Iowa.

Specimens of Spherium Jayanum and SN. transversum, from Des
Moines.

———. Alcoholic specimens of Limax maximus L., from the District of
Columbia.

Twelve species, 127 specimens Unionide, from Des Moines
River, lowa.

Coleman, W. W.,927 Ninth street, Washington, D. C. Specimen of Lo-
ligo, from Norfolk, Va.

Crawford, Dr. M. H., U. 8. N., of U. 8.8. Shenandoah, Tima, Peru.
Specimens of nbs and shells, dry and in alcohol, from latitude
52° 39’ south, and longitude 68° 34’ west, from the west coast of Tierra
del I'uego, near the entrance of Magellan Strait.

Dale, Dr. F. C. (See Hungerford.)

«
sie

REPORT OF DEPARTMENT OF MOLLUSKS. 183

Dall, Rev. C. H. A., Caleutta, India. One package marine shells from
Madras, India.

Dore, Harry E., Portland, Oreg. Shells from Oregon, including the re-
cently introduced European Zoniles cellarius Mull.

Duges, Prof. A., Guanajuato, Mee. Anodonta and Vermetus from Mexico.

Edwards, Vinal N.. Wood's Holl, Mass. Lunatia heros and Mesodesma
Jauresi, in alcohol, fron Wood's Holl, Mass.

Ellis, T. S. (See Baird, Prof. S. I.)

Grey, J. W., Hartford, Conn., through Barnett Phillips, esq. Specimens of
Cionella subcylindrica, a small land snail, said to have fallen in a
shower at Hartford, Conn., November 11, 1883.

Hayden, T. Walton, Weston (Ont.), Canada. Specimen of Anodonta from
Hudson Bay Territory, in spirits.

Hemphill, Henry, Oakland, Cal. Three packages small mollusks and
shells from Florida. These are among the most valuable contributions
of the year,.including chiefly small and rare species, some of which
are new, and all valuable for their excellent condition, and accurate
determination of habitat, locality, We.

Hering C. J., Paramaribo, Surinam. Specimens of Bulimus and Am-
pullaria from Surinam.

Hungerford, Dr. (through Dr. I’. C. Dale, China). Land, fresh-water, and
marine shells from China and Philippine Islands.

Hydrographic Office, U. 8. Navy Department (through Commander J. R.
Bartlett, hydrographer). Nudibranchs, cephalopods, and other pelagic
mollusks picked up at sea by Capt. J. R. Lyon of the bark Cashmere on
a voyage from Liverpool to Caleutta and San Francisco.

‘India Museum, Calcutta, by Prof. J. Wood Mason (through W. H. Dall).

Turbinella pyrum L., in alcohol. This shell, though extremely com-
mon in the Indian seas, has been hitherto unknown as to its soft
parts. Its classification, hitherto doubtful, has been determined by
means of the specimen above mentioned, obtained at the Andamans.

Jeffreys, Dr. J. Gwyn, F. BR. S., Kensington, England. Two cases of gas-
tropod mollusks, being an installment of the Jeffreys collection now
being forwarded to the National Museum.

Jones, Dr. William H., U.S. N., of the U. 8. S. Wachusett, Callao, Peru. A
valuable collection of marine shells, dry and in alcohol, from the west
coast of South America (chiefly Peru and Ecuador), and from the Gal-
apagos (Chatham) Islands.

Kiefer, George, Lima, Peru. Shells, &¢., in alcohol, from Peru.

Lehnert, Rev. E., Washington, D. C. (through R. E. C. Stearns). Onehun-
dred and thirty-three species and varieties of land and fresh-water
shells from the District of Columbia, being a valdable contribution
toward a local collection.

Mosely, Prof. H. N., Oxford, England. Microscopic slides, showing eyes
of Schizochiton incisus and Ornithochiton sp.

Murdoch, John. (See Signal Office, U.S. A.)
184 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884.

Nichols, Lieut. Commander H. L., U. S. N. Ten species marine shells

from British Columbia.

Orcutt, Charles R., San Diego, Cal. Specimens of mollusks, in alcohol,
including the remarkable new type Chlamydoconcha Oreutti Dall, from
San Diego, Cal.

Palmer, Dr. Edward. Specimens of Pinna seminuda and byssus, and

Strombus gigas L., from Florida.

Phillips, Barnett, esq. (See Grey, J. W.)

Pilsbry, H. A., Davenport, Iowa. Specimen of the rare Gundlachia meek-
tana Stm., from Davenport, Iowa.

Shufeldt, Dr. R. W., U. S. A., Fort Wingate, N. Mex. Specimens of
Physa gyrina Lea, from New Mexico, in spirits.

Signal Office, U. S. A. (See also Stejneger.) Specimens of shells from
Point Barrow, Arctic Ocean, collected by Prof. John Murdoch and
others of the Arctic meteorological station at Point Barrow, com-
manded by Lieut. P. H. Ray, U.S. A. <A valuable collection from
an almost inaccessible locality.

Stearns, R. EH. C., Assistant Curator, U. S. National Museum. Specimens
of shells from San Diego and Monterey, Cal.; also land and fresh-
water shells from Iowa and elsewhere, collected by R. E. Call.

Stejneger, Dr. Leonhard, Washington, D. C. Specimens of shells collected
at the Commander Islands, Bering Sea, while acting as observer for
the United States Signal Service. (This is a small but valuable col-
lection and the only one known from the locality. It has been de-
seribed in the Proceedings of the U.S. National Museum for 1884.)

Swan, J. G., Port Townsend, Wash. Specimens of large shellfish used
for food, from Port Townsend and vicinity, for the economical series
of food mollusks.

Townsend, Charles H., Baird, Shasta County, California. Shells from the
Farallones Islands, off San Francisco, Cal.

Whiting, Frank H., Norfolk, Conn. Specimen of Helix albolabris Say,
from Norfolk, Conn.

Wood-Mason, Prof. James. (See India Museum.)

Yarrow, Dr. H. C., U. 8. A., Washington, D. C. Anodonta and Physa,
from Utah.

Total for the year, about fifty lots, contributed by thirty-six persons.
There have been no publications based on the collections of the con-
chological department of the National Museum by parties unconnected
with the Museum corps during the past year, though several investiga-
tions are in progress and will be announced later, especially by Messrs.
Binney, Stearns, and Call.

;
;
;
¥y
;
ti
:
< ez

X.—REPORT OF THE CURATOR OF THE DEPARTMENT OF IN-
SECTS IN THE U. $8. NATIONAL MUSEUM FOR 1884.

By C. V. Rinry, Honorary Curator.

The following list of accessions, arranged according to accession

numbers, will indicate in a precise manner the character of the addi-

tions to the collection:

No. 13724. Large collection of insects of various orders collected in
Labrador, sent by Mr. L. M. Turner, Washington, D. C.

No. 13846. Collection of various insects from Norfolk Island, sent by
Mr. P. Herbert Metcalfe, Norfolk Island.

No. 13916. Various species of insects from Washington Territory, sent
by Capt. Charles Bendire, Fort Klamath, Wash.

No. 13917. Various species from California, sent by Mr. Charles H.
Townsend, Baird, Shasta County, California.

No. 13972. Achorutes sp. (Snow Podura) from New Jersey, sent by Mr.
John J. Willis, Westfield, N. J.

No. 14004. White-grub fungus (Cordyceps raveneli) from Arkansas, sent
by Mr. G. H. Horn, Liberty Springs, Van Buren County, Arkansas.

No. 14053. Tarentula hentzii and Scolopendra heros from Kansas, sent
by the Army Medical Musenm, Washington, D. C.

No. 14058. Periplaneta americana found on board of a whale ship, sent
by Mr. Daniel Kelleher, New Bedford, Mass.

No. 14065. Ephemerid larva from Texas, sent by Mr. C. C. Bearden,
Bedford, Tex.

No. 14150. Various insects and insect larve from Paramaribo, Surinam,
sent by Mr. C. J. Hering, Paramaribo, Surinam.

No. 14166. Clover-hay Worm (Asopia costalis) from Virginia, sent by
Mr. k. H. Downman, Warrenton, Va.

No. 14204. Bag-worm (Thyridopteryx sp.) from Arkansas, sent by Mr.
Michael T. Omally, Hot Springs, Ark.

No, 14269. Periplaneta americana from Saint Mary’s River, Florida, sent
by U.S. Fish Commission steamer Fish Hawk.

No. 14298. Achorutes sp. (Snow Podura) from Colorado, sent by Mr. H.
C. Lay, jr., Telluride, Colo.

No. 14325. Box of Coleoptera for determination, sent by Mr. BE. Wilkin-
son, jr., Mansfield, Ohio. (Returned to sender at his request).

185
186 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884.

No. 14333. Belostoma americanum from New York, sent by Mr. J. P,
Wood, Auburn, Cayuga County, New York.

No. 14059. Rhynchophorus cruentatus (imago) from Florida, sent by Mr.
W. J. de Poincy, Manatee, Fla.

No. 14518. Corydalus cornutus from North Carolina, sent by Mr. E. O.
Tate, Warm Springs, N. C.

No. 14530. Small collection of various insects from San Diego, Cal., sent
by Mr. Charles R. Orcutt, San Diego, Cal.

No. 14557. Attacus cecropia from Missouri, sent by Capt. A. E. Milti-
more, U.S. A., Jefferson Barracks, Mo..

No. 14565. Anthrenus scrophularie (larve) from Connecticut, sent by
Mr. J. N. Bishop, Plainville, Conn.

No. 14574. Coptocycla clavata? (pupa) from Delaware, sent by Mr.
Frank Stayton, Greenwood, Del.

No. 14584, Buthus sp. from California, sent by Mr. H. W. Turner, U.
S. Geological Survey, San Francisco, Cal.

No. 14585. Rhynchophorus cruentatus (cocoon) from Florida, sent by Mr.
W. J. de Poincy, Manatee, Fla.

No. 14588. Various insects from New Idria, Cal., sent by Mr. H. W.
Turner, U. 8. Geological Survey, San Francisco, Cal.

No. 14600. Hemerobiid larva from ae sent by Dr. A. B. Brookins,
Bartow, Fla.

No. 14620. Larva of Bristalis from Pennsylvania, sent by Mr. B. W.
Stennett, Corry, Erie County, Pennsylvania.

No. 14625. Cordyceps on Lucanid larva, sent by Messrs. R. T. Baily and
W. J. Etzel, Union, 8. C.

No. 14630. Ascalaphus hyalinus from Long Island, N. Y., sent by Dr.
Walter Mendelson, Southampton, Long Island.

No. 14667. Various insects from California, sent by Mr. R. BK. C. Stearns,
U.S. National Museum.

No. 14671. Rhyssa lunator from Massachusetts, sent by Mr. C. E. Abbe,
Sara Sota, Fla.

No. 14693. Photinus ardens from Maine, sent by Mr. Amos Wilder, Au-
gusta, Me.

No. 14695. Stenopoda cinerea from Florida, sent by Mr. J. Edwards
Allen, Orlando, Fla.

No. 14724. Otiorhynchus ligneus from Massachusetts, sent by Miss L.
Ferry, East Hampton, Mass. .

No. 14748. Madognatha (Theraphosoidae) sp. from New Mexico, sent by
Mr. Theodore W. Taylor, Lake Valley, N. Mex.

No. 14753. Mygale sp. from Arizona, sent by Mr. E. W. Nelson, Hua-
chuca, Cochise County, Arizona.

No. 14779. Deilephila lineata from Nevada, sent by Mr. Charles Keenan,
hospital steward, U.S. A., Fort Halleck, Nev.

No. 14780. Four species of insects from. Colorado, sent by Mr. M. E.
Cromley, Dolores, La Plata County, Colorado.

esa. 6

Ds
ite
REPORT OF DEPARTMENT OF INSECTS. 187

No. 14794. Bulb of Erigenia (not entomological) from Texas, sent by

Dr. G. P. Hackenberg, Austin, Tex.

No. 14820, Diapheromera femorata trom Massachusetts, sent by Mr. EB.

P. Upham, Smithsonian Institution.

No. 14821. Acanthocinus spectabilis from California, sent by Mr. John J.

Snyder, Murphy’s, Calaveras County, California.

No. 14913. Lagoa opereulata (larva) from North Carolina, sent by Mr.

N. A. Ramsey, Durham, N. C.

No. 14952. Lygeus fasciatus from Illinois, sent by Mr. Ely C. Fisk,

Havana, Mason County, Llinois.

No. 15012. Pleetrodera scalator trom Illinois, sent by Mr. Ely C. Fisk,

Havana, Mason County, Illinois.

No. 15027. Epeira insularis from Ilinois, sent by Mrs. R. E. Call, Wil-

lersburg, Il.

No. 15034. Three species of insects from Iowa, sent by Dr. J. M. Shaffer,

~ Keokuk, Iowa.

No. 15043. Mygale sp. from Mount Diablo, Cal., sent by Mr. H. W. Tur-
ner, San Francisco, Cal.

No. 15062. Hpeira insularis from Illinois, sent by Mr. Charles M. Sturges,

Chicago, Ill.

No. 15069. Rhyssa lunator from South Carolina, sent by Mr. George T.

Brown, Belton, 8. C. .

No. 15142. Various insects, mostly aquatic larve, from Utah, sent by

Dr. H. C. Yarrow, Army Medical Museum, Washington, D. C.

No. 15251. Blatta orientalis ? (larva) from California, sent by Mr, T. S.

Price, Borden, Cal.

No. 15458. Egg-mass of Olisiocampa sp. from Utah, sent by Mr. J. B.

Rosborough, Salt Lake City, Utah.

No. 15523. Achorutes sp. (Snow Podura) from Maine, sent by Mr. Amos

Wilder, Augusta, Me.

Altogether the most valuable collection received during the year is
that made by Mr. Turner in Labrador. The material is quite exten-
Sive, especially in individuals, and has been collected and preserved
with great care and judgment. I have, therefore, taken great pains
to mount such of the alcoholic material and such of the dry material
as would most quickly deteriorate if left as collected, in order that it
may be permanently preserved for future study, and I have been par-
ticular to attach to every specimen, not only the accession number, but
the number used by the collector, so as to facilitate his own work upon
the collection.

The work of the department has consisted, in addition to the ordi-
nary correspondence and determination of material, in the proper care,
so far as time would permit, of the material received. But taking ad-
vantage of the Government’s participation in the New Orleans Exposi-
tion, Lhave prepared, as a part of the exhibit from the Department of
Agriculture, a collection illustrative of economic entomology, employ-
~

188 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884.

ing therefor drawers and cases made after the unit plan of the Museum.
Many of the specimens for this exhibit were furnished from my pri-
vate collection, and it has been prepared upon the understanding with
the proper authorities that it is, when returned to Washington, to form
part of the Museum collection.

In closing this brief report I cannot refrain from repeating the rec-
ommendations of previous years both as to the utilization of the
plates purchased of the late Prof. Townend Glover and as to the ne-
cessity of placing the department upon a secure financial basis.

Mr. Glover’s plates and notes on the Diptera, Orthoptera, Hemiptera,
and cotton insects have already been published, in very limited edition,
as “Manuscript Notes from my Journal.” Those of the remaining or-
ders comprise about 200 plates, which can be printed from by Mr. A. G.
Gedney, of this city (who formerly printed for Glover and has made
me his estimates), for $13.50 per 1,000 copies, quarto impressions. The
printing of an edition of 1,000 would, therefore, cost about $270, while
the printing of such text as would be necessary could probably be done
for about $500 additional.

Several valuable collections have, as during previous years, been
offered for sale at remarkably low rates, some of which I have pur-
chased individually and deposited with the pest of my collections. The
need of a salaried assistant is each year more obvious, not only for the
reasons stated in previous reports, but as a guarantee of the proper
future care, in case of my death or removal from the city, of the ento-
mological material already in the Museum, and as a further guarantee
to specialists that type collections, if donated, will have proper appre-
ciation and preservation.

XI.—REPORT OF THE DEPARTMENT OF MARINE INVERTE-
BRATES* IN THE U. 8. NATIONAL MUSEUM FOR 1884,

By RICHARD RATHBUN, Curator.

ACCESSIONS.

The record of accessions to this department of the Museum during
the year just passed is unusually satisfactory. Several identified col-
lections of great value have been obtained from well-known European
and American authorities, and a large amount of material for future
elaboration has been received. The most important additions were
made, as usual, by the U. 8. Fish Commission, and represent the recent
deep-sea explorations of the steamer Albatross over a wide area. Large
collections were likewise obtained from other sources. The total num-
ber of accessions was 72, and the number of shipping packages of all
sizes received, 240. This enumeration does not, however, convey an
adequate conception of the extent of the additions to the department,
as several of the accessions amounted to more than 1,200 packages each,
if all the jars, bottles, vials, and small boxes are counted. The princi-

pal additions were as follows:
The U.S. Fish Commission: Very large and valuable collections were
transferred to this department by the Fish Commission in 1884. Cer-
tain portions of these collections having been worked up, and reports
upon them presented to the Commissioner, they now come into the per-
manent possession of the Museum, but other portions are to be regarded
as simply in its custody for safe-keeping. ;

Over 1,200 packages were received from the cruise of the steamer
Albatross in the Caribbean Sea and Gulf of Mexico and among the
West Indian Islands, from January to May, 1884; but this number does
not include many samples of bottom materials obtained at the sound-
ing stations in connection with the work of the Hydrographic Bureau,
and elsewhere credited to the Navy Department. This collection will
largely supplement the very valuable results recently obtained by the
Coast Survey steamer Blake in the same region. It contains many rep-
resentatives of all the principal groups of marine invertebrates common

* Exclusive of the Mollusca.
189
190 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884.

to that area, from the littoral zone to a depth of 1,700 fathoms, an
especial feature being a large and fine series of Crinoids (Pentacrinus)
from off Havana and elsewhere. Considering that during this cruise
the Albatross was mainly occupied with hydrographic work, the col-
lection does much credit to the energy and zeal of the officers and nat-
uralists attached to the vessel. The Crustacea have been sent to Prof.
8. I. Smith, at New Haven, Connnecticut, for study; the Anthozoa are to
be examined by Prof. A. E. Verrill; and the Ech have already been
worked up by the curator of the department. The Annelids, which are
not included in the above enumeration, were retained on board the
steamer, where they are being studied by Mr. James E. Benedict.

Fifty-six cases, including 1,400 packages, of specimens resulting from
the explorations of the steamers Albatross and Fish Hawk, during last
summer, off the eastern coast of the United States, between George’s
Bank and the latitude of Cape Hatteras, were sent direct from the
Wood’s Holl station to the Museum. The greater part of this material
had been examined and identified by the naturalists at Wood’s Holl,
but much of it is still undetermined. An additional collection made
by the steamer Albatross on her return trip from Wood’s Holl to Wash-
ington was received in November.

Eleven cases, containing nearly 800 packages, of alcoholic specimens,
and 171 species, have been received from Prof. A. E. Verrill. These
represent a portion of the results of Professor Verrill’s studies on the
Echinoderms and Anthozoa, and of those of Prof. S. I. Smith on the
Crustacea, made at New Haven during the year. The collection of
deep-sea barnacles stored at New Haven has also been turned over to
the Museum by Professor Smith, for transmission to Dr. P. P. C. Hoek,
of Leyden, a competent authority, who has offered to examine and
report upon this group.

Several smaller collections were sent in by or through the Fish Com-
mmission, as follows: Specimens of various kinds obtained at the mouth
of Saint Mary’s River, Florida, in March, by the steamer Fish Hawk ;
Crustaceans and Radiates collected by Dr. T. H. Bean at Fire Island
Beach and Patchogue, Long Island, during the summer; numerous
Crustaceans from Mr. E. G. Blackford, of New York; specimen of
Crustacean fish parasites from Vineyard Sound, Massachusetts, and
of rare Crustaceans obtained by the steam-dredger working about the
new pier of the Fish Commission at Wood’s Holl, from Mr. Vinal N.
Edwards.

The following donations from Gloucester fishermen were also re-
ceived through the Fish Commission: Specimens of sponges and corals
from the fishing grounds off the provincial coast; specimen of cup
sponge and several Bryozoan corals from the fishing grounds north of
Iceland, collected and donated by Capt. J. A. Dago, of the schooner
Concord ; a lobster from near Gloucester, Mass., of which one side is of
the normal color and the other red, or similar to the color produced by

REPORT OF DEPARTMENT OF MARINE INVERTEBRATES. 191

boiling. On this interesting specimen the two colors are equally dis-
tributed and meet along the median line of both the dorsal and ventral
surfaces. In no place does either color encroach upon the other, but
their line of demarkation is as distinctly marked as though the speci-
men had been colored by hand, although it is undoubtedly a genuine
freak of nature.

Dr. Edward Palmer: Sixty-five cases of Corals, Sponges, Crustaceans,
and Echinoderms from Southern Florida and the Dry Tortugas. This
is the largest collection, next to that of the Fish Commission, received
by this department during the year, and was made in the interest of
the New Orleans International Exposition, through the funds appro-
priated for that purpose by Congress. In detailing Dr. Palmer for this
undertaking, it was with the intention of bringing together as exhaust-
ive a collection as possible of the more important and conspicuous ani-
mal products of the coral-reef region of Southern Florida, which, con-
sidering its many interesting economic and biological features, has
never been properly represented hitherto, either in the National Museum
collections or in connection with any of our great expositions. The re-
sults obtained by Dr, Palmer were eminently satisfactory, although it
is impossible at so early a date to make anything like a complete report
upon his collection. Its value is greatly enhanced by the very full
notes which accompany it. It has been entirely unpacked, and all of
the specimens have been separately labeled, to insure their future iden-
tity beyond a possibility of error or confusion. The dried specimens of
small to medium size have been stored in unit trays (of which they fill
about 100), temporarily arranged in the west hall of the Smithsonian
Institution. The larger corals have been retained in their original
cases, from which the packing materials have been removed. The Ac-
tinian or stony corals comprise the bulk of the collection, although there
is a large representation of Gorgonian corals, and the number of finely
prepared sponges is very great. The Crustaceans and Echinoderms, of
which there are many specimens and species, are mainly preserved in
alcohol.

Henry Hemphill: A very extensive collection of alcoholic and dried
specimens of marine invertebrates from the west coast of Florida, be-
tween Cedar Keys and Charlotte Harbor, obtained from the shore and
from shallow water by dredging. This collection was made with great
care during the winter and early spring, and consists largely of the
smaller forms of animal life, such as collectors seldom look for. The
groups mainly represented are the Crustaceans, Annelids, Echinoderms,
Aleyonian and Actinian corals, and sponges. Although coming from a
region closely bordering that visited by Dr. Palmer, this collection does
not in any way duplicate his, being of an entirely different character.

The additions made to the Museum collections from the Antillean re-
gion during 1884, by the steamer Albatross, Dr. Palmer, and Mr. Hemp-
192 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884.

hill, form together the most complete and important contribution which
this department has lately received from any one faunal area.

Navy Department and naval officers: From the Bureau of Navigation, —

168 bottom samples from the sounding stations of the steamer Alba-
tross, Lieut. Commander Z. L. Tanner, U. 8. N., commanding, in the
Caribbean Sea and Gulf of Mexico, from January to May, 1884. Dur-
ing this period the Fish Commission steamer Albatross was temporarily
in the service of the Navy Department for surveying purposes, and the
specimen results obtained in soundings were afterwards transferred to
the Museum. From the same Bureau, many samples of ocean bottom
obtained by the U.S. 8. Enterprise during a cruise from the United
States to the Asiatic station via the Cape of Good Hope.

From the Hydrographic Bureau, two jars of surface specimens col-
lected by the British bark Cashmere, during a voyage from Liverpool to
Calcutta and from Calcutta to San Francisco.

Frem Dr. W. H. Jones, U.S. N., U. 8S. S. Wachusett, three valuable
collections of Echinoderms and Crustaceans from various parts of the
Pacific Ocean, principally the Sandwich, Samoan, Society, Marquesas,
and Galapagos Islands, and the coasts of Chili, Peru, and Ecuador.
These contributions from Dr. Jones have been among the most inter-
esting received by this department during the past year. They con-
tain an exceedingly large number of specimens and species, carefully
preserved and labeled, and will supply many deficiencies in the collec-
tion, as well as replace numerous old and damaged specimens brought
in by the earlier expeditions to the same region.

From the Greely relief party, Commander W. S. Schley, U. 8S. N.,
commanding, and Ensign C. 8. McClain, U. S. N., naturalist of the
Alert: A collection of Crustaceans and other marine invertebrates from
the west coast of Greenland.

From Lieut. H. H. Barroll, U. S. N., a finely preserved specimen of
Ranina, from Lamock Island, China.

From Dr. M. H. Crawford, U. S. N., specimens of sea-urchins and
Hydroids from the west coast of Terra del Fuego.

Capt. M. A. Healy, U. S. R. M., commanding the revenue cutter Corwin,
on the Pacific coast: An interesting collection of marine invertebrates
from the northwestern coast of Alaska, preserved in alcohol. The major-
ity of the specimens were obtained by dredging in depths of 16 to 32
fathoms, between 65° 49/ 15’ and 71° 02/ north latitude, and 157° 46/
and 169° 04’ 30” west longiude. A few also were from the shore.

President D. S. Jordan, of Indiana University: Collection of Crusta-
ceans and Echinoderms from Key West, Florida.

McKesson & Robbins, New York: A collection of sponges, including
all the Mediterranean commercial varieties and many from Florida.
This collection contains several interesting specimens illustrating the
mode of growth and attachment of sponges, and, together with the
series already furnished by the same dealers and others, furnishes the

he
REPORT OF DEPARTMENT OF MARINE INVERTEBRATES. 193

Museum with a most complete representation of all the known commercial
- sponges of the world.

Collections received in exchange: From the Rev. A. M. Norman, of En-
gland, 229 species of marine invertebrates from the British Islands and
Norway, distributed among the different groups as follows : Crustacea,
119 species ; Mollusca, 57 species ; Tunicata, 14 species; Echinodermata,
32 species; Actinozoa, 2 species; Sponges, 5 species. As regards the
British Decapod Crustaceans, this collection is said to be one of the
finest ever sent out from England. Most of the specimens are preserved
in alcohol, but some of the larger ones are dried and in suitable condi-
tion for the exhibition series. Further exchanges with Mr. Norman are
now in progress.

From Prof. G. Stewardson Brady, of England, 88 species of Cope-
pod Crustaceans, of which four species are érue parasites, and the
remainder free-swimming or semi-parasitic forms, from Great Britain
and from the Challenger collections made in different parts of the world.

From Mr. Edward Lovett, of England, carefully made alcoholic prep- -
arations of 53 species of stalk-eyed Crustaceans from the British Chan-
nel. This is an exceedingly instructive collection, and is accompanied
by notes giving the range and abundance of each species, and indicat-
ing those that are used as food.

From Prof. H. N. Moseley, of Oxford University, England, finely pre-
pared specimens of the liver-fluke, Fasciola hepatica, some preserved
in glycerine and others mounted in Canada balsam, with dried speci-
mens of Limneeus truncatulus, the host of its Cercaria stage; also alco-
holic preparations of the fresh-water Polyzoan, Cristatella repens, and
the fresh-water Hydro-Medusa, Lymnocodium Sowerbii, from the Vic-
toria Gardens, Regent’s Park, London.

From Bergen’s Museum, Bergen, Norway, 55 species of Echinoderms
from the coast of Norway and from the explorations of the Norske Nord-
havs expedition (Norwegian North Atlantic expedition). The several
groups arerepresented as follows: Holothurians, 16 species; Sea-urchins,
9 species ; Star-fishes, 17 species; Ophiurans, 12 species; Comatula, 1
species. This is a valuable collection for comparison with North Amer-

ican forms.
ROUTINE WORK.

The care and preservation of the numerous large collections received
by this department during the past year have demanded the almost con-
Stant attention of the curator and his assistants, and but little time
has been available for original researches and the preparation of speci-
mens for exhibition. Every case of specimens turned over to the de-
partment has been at once unpacked and its contents assorted, clas-
sified and catalogued; but the lack of ample storage space has prevented
the systematic arrangement of these materials, and las greatly inter-
fered with the progress of all work upon the collections. The work of
administering upon the marive invertebrates obtained by the Fish Com-

S. Mis. 33, pt..2———_13
194 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884. “

mission has also fallen to this department and has occupied much time.
Portions of the general collection have been overhauled from time to
time for the purpose of placing specimens in better condition for study
aud reference, and in June the entire series of alcoholics was examined
and the alcohol renewed where necessary. The collection of Echini
has received most attention from the curator, as elsewhere noted, and
at the time of writing is in better condition than any other collection
of the department.

The exhibition series of specimens has been entirely rearranged so as
to present a more systematic sequence, and it now fills all of the wall
cases which nearly surround the west hall of the Smithsonian Insti-
tution. The large amount of material stored in the hall, however, pre-
vents its being opened to the public. A few large specimens of ‘Crus-
tacea and corals have been mounted during the year and added to this
series.

The preparation of the fourth series of duplicates, comprising 200
sets, each containing 108 species, selected from the collections turned

in by the Fish Commission, was completed in the spring, and many of - .

the sets have already been sent out.

The cataloguing of specimens has kept pace with the work upon col- |

lections, and 5,667 entries have been made in the record books during
the year. This number includes the entries of specimens of marine
invertebrates collected by the Fish Commission, all of which are entered
in the catalogue books of the department as the most convenient method
of recording them.

Three collecting outfits were supplied during the year, as follows:
To Ensign C.S. McClain, U.S. N., who acted as naturalist on the steamer
Alert of the Greely relief party to Lady Franklin Bay ; to Lieut. George
M. Stoney, U.S.N., who has been engaged in explorations in Alaska ;
and to Dr. Edward Palmer, whose large collection from the Florida
reefs has already been described.

From the middle of July to the middle of October the curator and
Mr. Baldwin took part in the summer explorations of the Fish Commis-
sion at Wood’s Holl, Mass. The character of the work accomplished
in this connection, so far as it relates to this department of the Museum,
is described further on.

Mr. A. H. Baldwin has been employed as general assistant since
April 10. Ensign C. S. McClain, U. S. N., assigned to duty at the

Smithsonian Institution in 1883 by the Secretary of the Navy, rendered

efficient services upon the collections during the first half of the year,
or until he joined the Greely relief party in June. Mr. Thomas Lee,
of Boston, acted as a volunteer assistant during November and Decem-
ber, and Miss M. J. Rathbun was assigned to this department on the 1st
of December.

Cataloguing.—The total number of entries of specimens made in the
record books for 1884 was 5,667, distributed: among the several groups

\

Tee terre Bye A

¥
REPORT OF DEPARTMENT OF MARINE INVERTEBRATES. 195

as indicated in the table given below. Each entry indicates a separate
package (jar, bottle, homeopathic vial, box, or tank), containing a sin-
gle species, although the same species may be duplicated several times
by being represented by specimens from different localities. The en-
tries are not limited to identified specimens, but all collections are cat-
alogued as soon as sorted, in order that an accurate account may be
kept of the vast accumulation of materials which now more than fill
the storage space allotted to them. <A card catalogue is also kept, and
is intended to cover all the entries in the record books. In so far as
they refer to identified materials, the cards are arranged in systematic
order, permitting of easy reference to the species, while the remainder
are arranged serially as to the catalogue numbers, and constitute the
working catalogue, being more convenient for handling than the large
record books.

Table showing entries in record books for 1884.

Entries | Entries | Entries
Groups. to Jan. 1,| to Jan. 1, made dur-

1884. 1885. ing 1884.
5, 719 7, 230 I, 511
nat A ESSE SSSR SORES Se SS BRO ASG AEE Ee 7,500 8,913 1,413
Sin aes 729 880 151
Tuuicates and Bryozoa.. . ree 209 298 89
BRIIMIRE tee eU sce dete ce Secs s cece Bate —— 6, 840 8, 698 * 1,858
DRAPRME ANCE DON POR he 282 tise toon crn Stace cane me man Some cis seeder a ab 3 1, 760 645
SRNL motets tie ean mec See be miamcte e Aixen Sancaae wee olk stan bnie's 14, 612 20, 279 5, 667

DISTRIBUTION OF DUPLICATES AND EXCHANGES.

A large number of duplicate specimens have been distributed during
the year, mainly to institutions in the United States. In this manner
the Museum has been relieved of the care of much material of no
further use to its workers, and students elsewhere have been given the
benefit of its resources. Nearly all the collections sent out belonged to
the regular series of duplicates described in former reports and referred
to elsewhere in this report. These have been made up from dupli-
cates resulting from the explorations of the U. S. Fish Commission,
and are collections of great value, a large share of the species they
contain being recent additions to science from deep water. As has
been the custom hitherto, no returns have been demanded from Ameri-
can institutions supplied with these sets, but collections have been sent
to foreign countries only in exchange. Forty-eight sets belonging to
the regular series were sent out in 1884 to the following institutions :

London series, containing 225 species (sent in exchange): University
of Edinburgh, Edinburgh, Scotland.

Series II, containing about 190 species each: State University, Bloom-
ington, Ind.; Rochester University, Rochester, N. Y.; Johns Hopkins
196 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884.

University, Baltimore, Md.; Brown University, Providence, R.I.; Cin-
cinnati University, Cincinnati, Ohio; University of Wisconsin, Madison,
Wis.; University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, Pa.; Albion College, —
Albion, Mich.; Skaneateles Library Association, Skaneateles, N. Y.; —
Syracuse University, Syracuse, N. Y.; Trinity College, Hartford, Conn.; —
Swarthmore College, Swarthmore, Pa.

Series IV, containing 108 species each: Foster School, Clifton Springs,
N.Y.; Penn College, Oskaloosa, lowa; Jacksonville Female Academy, —
Jacksonville, Ill.; High School, Piqua, Ohio; West Virginia Univer-
sity, Morgantown, W. Va.; Northwestern Ohio Normal School, Ada,
Ohio; Leicester Academy, Leicester, Mass.; Drury College, Spring-
field, Mo.; Miller Manual Labor School, Crozet, Va.; Perkins Institute
and Massachusetts School for the Blind, South Boston, Mass.; Agassiz
Association, chapter 387, Baltimore, Md.; Lasell Seminary, Auburn- ~
dale, Mass.; Williams School, Auburndale, Mass.; Saint Lawrence
University, Canton, N. Y.; Normal School, Potsdam, N. Y.; Saint
Mary’s Institute, Dayton, Ohio; State Normal School, Providence, R.
I.; Central University, Richmond, Va.; Parsons College, Fairfield,
Iowa; Brethren’s Normal College, Huntingdon, Pa.; Saint Joseph’s —
Commercial College, Saint Joseph, Mo.; Park College, Parkville, Mo. ;
Female Orphan School, Camden Point, Mo.; State Insane Asylum,
Saint Joseph, Mo.; Southwestern Presbyterian University, Clarksville,
Tenn.; Chaddock College, Quincy, Il.; Denison University, Granville,
Ohio; Otterbein University, Westerville, Ohio; F.G. Galbraith, Bain-
bridge, Pa.; the University, Lewisburg, Pa.; Wagner Free Institute
of Science, Philadelphia, Pa.; Westtown Boarding School, Westtown,
Pa.; State Normal School, West Chester, Pa.; Beechcroft School,
Spring Hill, Tenn.; Goddard Seminary, Barre, Vt.

A collection of 34 species of Crustacea, from the recent deep-sea
dredgings of the Fish Commission steamers Fisk Hawk and Albatross,
were sent in June to the Rev. A. M. Norman, of England, who is now
preparing a series of British species in return. Several other small
collections of only one or a few species each, have been supplied, by re-
quest, to American students, to be used in special investigations.

In the annual report for 1883 reference was made to five sets of du-
plicates sent to Europe under the system of exchanges mentioned
above. Returns have been received for three of these sets, as follows:
From the Rev. A. M. Norman, from Prof. G. Stewardson Brady, and
from Prof. H. N. Moseley, of Oxford University, the acknowledgments
for which have already been made under the accessions. For the col-
lection of Echinoderms received from Bergen’s Museum this Museum
is still indebted, and a suitable return will soon be made. From the
Royal Academy of Stockholm, Sweden, a suite of specimens from the
collection of the Vega Arctic expedition is promised, and from the
University of Edinburgh, Scotland, a collection of British species,

REPORT OF DEPARTMENT OF MARINE INVERTEBRATES. 197

THE U.S. FISH COMMISSION.

A brief account of those explorations of the Fish Commission for
1884 which have been productive of valuable zoological results, now
or soon to be shared in by the National Museum, will not be out of
place in this connection, although reference has already been made to
them under the accessions.

The steamer Albatross, under command of Lieut. Commander Z. L.
Tanner, U.S. N., continued in active service during nearly the entire
year. From January to May she was detailed for sounding operations
in the Gulf of Mexico and Caribbean Sea, under the direction of the
Hydrographic Bureau of the Navy Department, but was also able to
make many dredgings, and visited several interesting ports, where the
naturalists occupied their time to good advantage. Mr. James E. Ben-
edict was the naturalist in charge, and was assisted by Mr. Willard
Nye, jr., of New Bedford, Mass., who volunteered his services. Sev-
eral of the officers also did effective work in the collecting of specimens.
One of the most interesting localities visited was that directly off Ha-
vana, on the north side of Cuba, where Pentacrinus is known to occur
abundantly, and where numerous specimens of that curious animal
were obtained by means of the tangles, the bottom being too rough to
permit of the use of any other appliance. Nearly all the other dredg-
ings were made in the Caribbean Sea, and were distributed over many
parts of that important zoological region. Fifty-three dredgings were
made, in depths of 5 to 1,701 fathoms, 26 being in depths greater than
200 fathoms. The ports and islands visited, at which shore-collections
and shallow-water dredgings from a small boat -were made, are as fol-
lows: Key West, Fla.; the island of St. Thomas; Jamaica; the island
of Old Providence, off the coast of Nicaragua; the island of Curagao,
off the coast of Venezuela; the town of Sabanilla, United States of
Colombia, and San Antonio, Cuba.

The zoological specimens obtained during this cruise were brought
directly to the National Museum, where they were sorted and cata-
logued. The Crustacea have been sent to Prof. 8. I. Smith, of New
Haven, Conn., who writes that they include many exceedingly interest-
ing forms. The Echini have been worked up by the curator, who will
soon report upon them in the Proceedings of the Museum. Of this
group 25 species were obtained, 9 being littoral forms and 16 from depths
of 25 to 1,639 fathoms. Mr. Benedict is studying the Annelids, but the
other portions of the collection have not yet been referred for examina-
tion, although Professor Verrill offers to report upon the Anthozoa, and
Prof. L. A. Lee upon the Foraminifera.

In July the Albatross resumed her explorations of the eastern coast,
which were continued until the latter part of Oetober. During this
time the headquarters of the Fish Commission were at Wood’s Holl,
Mass., where a permanent summer station has been established. Suit-
able wharves and buildings to accommodate the investigating work of
198 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884.

the Commission, have been in course of preparation at this point for
some time, and the more important ones are now nearly completed;
bat during last summer it was still necessary to make use of the small
frame laboratory building put up some years ago, and which, though
amply commodious for the small party then in the field, does not afford
sufficient facilities for the work as it is now carried on. The new im-
provements comprehend a large, square stone pier and wharves for the
use of steamers, and inclosing several basins for fish culture, and a
laboratory building three stories in height. The lower story of the
laboratory will be devoted to fish culture, to the larger experimental
aquaria, and to the coarser kinds of work; the second and third stories,
to the laboratory work-rooms proper, which will be fully equipped for
all the investigations to be carried on in connection with the study of
the ocean fisheries. It is also intended to reserve sufficient space for
the use of special workers in biology who may desire to study any of
the materials brought in by the steamers of the Commission, and which
it would be difficult for them to obtain by other means.

Many of those who have participated in the summer explorations of
the Commission have given their services gratuitously, and it has, there-
fore, been possible to organize a much larger corps of assistants during
that season than the funds of the Commission would otherwise have
permitted. The zoological investigations this year were carried on
under the immediate supervision of Prof. A. E. Verrill, who has been
connected with the Commission since the first year of its establishment.
His associates and assistants in the laboratory work, in addition to the
curator, Mr. Peter Parker, jr., and Mr. A. H. Baldwin, who belong to
the permanent staff of the Commission, were Prof. 8. I. Smith, of Yale
College; Mr. Sanderson Smith, of New York; Prof. L. A. Lee, of Bow-
doin College; Prof. Edwin Linton, of Washington and Jefferson College;
Mr. H. L. Bruner, of Illinois; Mr. B. I. Koons, of the Storrs Agricult-
ural School, Connecticut; Mr. J. H. Blake, of Cambridge, Mass. (as art-
ist); Ensign W. E. Safford, U.S. N.; and Mr. Willard Nye, jr., of New
Bedford, Mass. Mr. James E. Benedict continued in charge of the
natural history work on the steamer Albatross, and during the several
trips made from Wood’s Holl was assisted by two or more of the per-
sons mentioned above, Mr. Sanderson Smith and Mr. Peter Parker
being constant members of the steamer party. Ensign R. H. Miner, U.
S. N., of the Albatross, was associated with Mr. Parker in the care of
the fishes.

The active work of exploration was begun by the Albatross imme-
diately after leaving Washington, and many important results were
obtained before she reached Wood’s Holl, in the latter part of July.
Seareely any time was lost during the entire summer from unfavorable
weather or other causes, and her cruising continued until the very last
of October, thus covéring a continuous period of fully three months.
The area explored extended from the southern edge of George’s Bank

2
3
*
“

athe er 2

REPORT OF DEPARTMENT OF MARINE INVERTEBRATES. 199

to the latitude of Cape Hatteras, North Carolina, and into a depth of
water of 2,574 fathoms, at a point more than half way between our coast
and the island of Bermuda. A large number of temperature and other
physical observations, bearing upon the migrations of mackere! and men-
haden, were made, and large quantities of the small surface organisms
on which those fish feed, were carefully collected. The abruptly slop-
ing bottom at the inner edge of the Gulf Stream was thoroughly investi-
gated at numerous places, and large collections of marine life obtained,
but no traces were found of the once abundant tile-fish (Zopholatilus
chameleonticeps), which first attracted the attention of the Commission
to this exceedingly rich region. Several lines of dredgings and of bot-
tom and serial temperature were carried outward from the inner edge
of this slope into depths of 1,000 to 2,500 fathoms, and other similar
lines were made to connect it with the shore soundings. The datathus
far obtained regarding this region are in many ways very complete,
and when properly worked up will have an important beariig upon
several interesting fishery problems.

Very important discoveries from a geological point of view were
made in regard to the nature of the materials composing the sea bot-
tom at great depths under the Gulf Stream, and a brief report upon
this subject has already been published by Professor Verrill. In depths
of 500 to 1,200 fathoms the bottom was often “found to consist of
tough and compact clay so thoroughly hardened that many large and
angular fragments, sometimes weighing more than fifty pounds, have
been brought up in thetrawl. * * * This material is genuine clay,
mixed with more or less sand” and with asmall percentage of the shells
of Globigerina and other Foraminifera.”

The amount of zoological material obtained was very great, and some
of it was of much interest. Even from the deeper hauls a great variety
of life was obtained, and many very large and showy species, including a
number of new forms. A large part of this material has already been
turned over to the Museum, and the entire results will soon be repre.
sented in our collection.

The number of dredgings made by the Albatross, in the summer
of 1884, was 141, of which 49 were in depths between 100 and 1,000
fathoms, 20 between 1,000 and 2,000 fathoms, and 5 above 2,000 fathoms.
The last cruise was mainly devoted to the region lying off Cape Hat-
teras, and 45 dredgings were there made, in depths of 7 to 671 fathoms,
with good results. The specimens collected on this trip were brought
directly to Washington and sorted and catalogued in the Museum.

At the close of 1884 the Albatross is making preparations for an-
other cruise to the Gulf of Mexico to investigate the important fishing
grounds bordering the coasts of the Southern States. It is expected
that she will also make valuable additions to her collections of the pre-
vious winter.
200 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884.

RESEARCHES.

This department bas been greatly benefited during the year past by
the researches of Prof. A. KE. Verrill and Prof. 5S. I. Smith, of New Haven,
Conn., on the deep-sea invertebrates obtained by the Fish Commission
in its recent explorations. An account of the materials identified by
them and received from New Haven and from the Wood’s Holl station,
has been given above. Professor Verrill has devoted most attention
during the year to the Mollusca, but he has also studied large numbers
of Echinoderms and Anthozoa, and several new species in those groups
have been described by him in the reports cited under his name in the
bibliography. The Museum collection now contains nearly all the spe-
cies of Echinoderms and Anthozoa discovered in the deep water off the
eastern coast, so far as they have been worked up. The studies of Pro-
fessor Smith have been mainly upon the higher Crustacea, of which he
has turned over to the Museum a large number of species.

Mr. Sanderson Smith, of New York, a member of the Fish Commis.
sion party during each summer, spent about two months at the Museum
after the close of last season’s explorations, sorting and identifying the
Mollusca collected on the last cruise of the Albatross. The Hon. Theo-
dore Lyman has also, in the leisure time at his disposal, continued his
studies of the Ophiurans obtained by the Albatross in the Gulf of
Mexico avd Caribbean Sea from January to May, 1884.

Mr. James E. Benedict, the naturalist of the Albatross, has carried
on his investigations of the Annelids on board that steamer or at his
house, and will soon have material ready for transfer to the Museum.
Mention may here be made of the fact that the Foraminifera of the Fish
Commission collection are in the hands of Prof. L. A. Lee, of Bowdoin.
College, for study, and that the Entozoan parasites of fishes have been
referred to Prof. Edwin Linton, of Washington and Jefferson College;
but it is yet too early to expect reports from these gentlemen.

The curator, while at Wood’s Holl during the summer, identified the
described species of parasitic Copepods contained in the Museum col-
lection, and which were mainly obtained by the Fish Commission. -An
annotated list of the same has been published in the Proceedings of the
Museum for 1884. Drawings and preparations of several new species
not yet published were also made. He has also worked up the species
of Kchini belonging to the collection made by the Fish Commission
steamer Albatross from January to May, 1884, in the Gulf of Mexico
and Caribbean Sea. Although no new species were discovered, the col-
lection is a valuable addition to this department. The work of identi-
fying and revising the Museum collection of Echini, one of the largest
and most important of its kind in the world, has been continued through
the year, and it will probably be possible during 1885 to prepare and
publish a complete catalogue of the species it contains.

The preparation of reports upon the marine invertebrate fishery in-
dustries and the fishing grounds of North America, including the cor-

eee wacgene orn wage

4 7 ay . sti, am! - Cay’, 2

at 2

See ©) a” *

REPORT OF DEPARTMENT OF MARINE INVERTEBRATES. 201

rection of proofs of the same, has occupied much of the curator’s time,
but unavoidable delays prevented the issuing of any of these reports
during 1854.

The collection of Astacide (cray-fishes) lent to Prof. Waller Faxon, of
Harvard College, for study, in the winter of 1882-’83, was returned to
the Museum in June last, fully identified. This collection is now one of
the most complete in the world, especially as regards North American
forms, containing 46 species (44 being North American), of which 9 are
new to science, having been described by Professor Faxon during the
year in the Proceedings of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences,

Vol. XX. The total number of jars in the collection is 210, and of speci-

mens 1,084, many of the species being represented from several localities.

Mr. John Murdoch, one of the naturalists of the U.S. Signal Service
expedition to Point Barrow, Alaska, from 1881 to 1883, was engaged
at the Smithsonian Institution during the winter and spring in working
up the collection of marine invertebrates obtained by that expedition.
This collection was found to contain 119 species, as follows: Pyenogo-
nida, 2; Crustacea, 44, of which 7 are new; Vermes, 20, of which 1 is
new; Echinodermata, 17; Anthozoa, 4; Hydrozoa, 17; Tunicata, 6;
Brachiopoda, 1; Polyzoa, 5; and Porifera, 3. It is now in the posses-
sion of the Museum. A preliminary account of the new species has been
presented for publication in the Proceedings of the Museum, and a com-
plete report upon the collection is in the hands of the Public Printer, as
part of the “Report of the International Polar Expedition to Point
Barrow, Alaska, by First Lieut. P. H. Ray, Eighth Infantry, acting sig-
nal officer, commander of the expedition.”

PRESENT STATE OF THE COLLECTIONS.

The collections belonging to this department are now in exceptionally
good condition, although, from the want of sufficient storage space, they
are not, for the most part, suitably arranged for convenience of refer-
ence. As above noted, materials have lately been received in such
large quantities as to necessitate the constant attention of the small
force assigned to this work in order to provide for their safety; and the

_ careful preservation of specimens, rather than their scientific classifica-

tion, has been the chief endeavor. Much has been accomplished, how-
ever, in the working up of certain portions of the collections, and as a
large proportion of the materials turned in by the Fish Commission has
passed through the hands of specialists, the scientific value of the col-
lections now in the department is very great. Nearly all the specimens
received have been catalogued in the record books, and of all properly
identified collections card catalogues have been made and are arranged
in s$stematic order. .
Most of the alcoholic specimens are stored in the basement of the
Smithsonian Institution. The small room in the west basement, origi-
nally assigned to this department, is now completely filled with jars and
202 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884.

bottles, which not only occupy all the shelves and tables, but a large
part of the floor space as well. Two series of cases in the hall adjoin-
ing this room are similarly filled with jars, while the floor of the hall is
used for the storage of the large copper tanks. Another large series of
cases in the main basement hall is occupied with jars belonging to this ~
department, and also the wall cases in the southwest part of the bird
hall, on the main floor. The west Smithsonian hall, formerly used for
the exhibition of mincrals and pottery, is now almost entirely taken up by
this department, only a few of the larger pieces of pottery yet remain-
ing. The old wall cases in this hall are now filled with the exhibition
series of marine invertebrates, so far as it has been prepared; but it
has been necessary to use the floor space and the tops of the cases for
the storage of the dried specimens and some of the alcoholics, and for
the working over of collections as they are received. This hall has,
therefore, been closed to the public for over a year. The general
collection of dricd specimens is arranged in trays and boxes, partly
stored in suitable cases, but for the most part piled up on the floor.
This collection includes nearly all the groups of marine invertebrates,
outside of the Mollusca, which permit of drying, and contains many
valuable speciuicns. The dry sea-urchins, which have been completely
worked up, are arranged in the trays fitting under the wall cases on the
east side of the hail, and the collection of star-fishes occupies the simi-
lar trays on the west side.

The exhibition series has been temporarily arranged in natural se-
quence as regards the several groups displayed, beginning in the north-
east corner of the room. The sponges come first, and are followed by
the Hydroid corals, Actinian corals, Aleyonian corals, Ophiurans, Star-
fishes, Sea-urchins, and Crustaceans. By far the greater space is occu-
pied by the corals, which include nearly all the specimens saved from
the collections of the United States Exploring Expedition and the
North Pacific Exploring Expedition. As a whole the exhibition series
presents a creditable appearance, and it should be opened to the public
at as early a date as possible.

The total number of packages of specimens so far registered in this
department is 20,279, but as to the number of species or specimens it is
impossible at present to give any figures. A large number of the pack-
ages contain many, often several hundred, or, in the case of exceedingly
small animals, even thousands of SPeCUBOIE, rendering it quite useless
to attempt an enumeration.

The exhibition series contains the following number of specimens:
Sponges, 283; Corals, 736; Ophiurans, 120; Star-fishes, 173; Sea-urchins,
207; Crustaceans, 74; Miscellaneous, 20; total, 1,613.

XII (4).—DEPARTMENT OF INVERTEBRATE FOSSILS, PALEOZOIC.

By C. D. Waucorrs, Honorary Curator.

ADDITIONS TO THE COLLECTIONS.
The most important addition is that of Devonian and Carboniferous
fossils from the U.S. Geological Survey collections. Many of the speci-
mens are types of new species, and the collection is the original one
upon which the Paleontology of the Eureka District, Nevada, is based.
-(Monog. VIL, U.S. Geol. Surv.)

Another collection transferred from the Survey contains a valuable
and extensive series from the Hamilton group at Moravia, N. Y.

Lists of the species in the above collections will be found in the ap-
pendix.

The smaller accessions are:

One block of Lower Carboniferous limestone with two beautiful speci-
mens of Scaphiocrinus sp.? from Capt. George M. Wheeler, U.S. A.

_ From the Hamilton group at Widder, Ontario: Actinozoa, 16 species;
Brachiopoda, 4 species; Gasteropoda, 1 species; Pteropoda, 1 species;
Annelida, 1 species; received from Mr. C. D. Walcott.

By exchange with the Sayre Female Institute, of Lexington, Ky., the
following species of fossils from the Hudson River group of Ohio and
Kentucky were received :

Buthotrephis gracilis. Trematospira quadriplicata.
Olimacograptus bicornis. Zygospira modesta.

Crania scabiosa. Rhynchonella capax.
Orthis insculpta. Cyclora minuta.
Strophomena alternata. Murchisonia Bowdeni.
Strophodonta planumbona.

A return exchange was prepared of 14 species of Devonian and 15
species of Carboniferous fossils.

From Mr. L. A. Cox, of Keokuk, Iowa, a beautiful specimen of Dory-
crinus Mississippiensis was received, and also casts of the following
species of Crinoids from the Keokuk limestone:

_ Agaricocrinus Americanus. _ Dorycrinus Mississippiensis.
Agaricocrinus Wortheni. Onychocrinus exculptus.
4 Barycrinus Hercules. | Synbathocrinus Swallovi.
: Baryerinus spurius. _ Taxocrinus Wortheni.
_ Baryerinus tumidus. Zeacrinus Coxanus.

 Batoerinus biturbinatus.

q 208
204 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884.

A collection of Carboniferous fossils from Charles H. Townsend, Baird,
Shasta County, California. This embraces 56 specimens, and is a desir-
able addition to the collection already in the Museum from that place,
as no other locality of Paleozoic fossils is known on the Pacifie coast.

A specimen of Orthoceras sp.? from the Coal Measures near Burling-
ton, Kans., received from Mr. James B. Quil, of Burlington, Kans.

A fine specimen of Productus semireticulatus, from J. J. Watts, Peach
Springs, West Tennessee.

One worn specimen of Syringopora sp.? (Carboniferous), a pebble in
Paria River, Southern Utah, received from Mr, A. L. Siler, Hillsdale,
Utah.

Received (accession No. 14347) from Mr. E. B. Knapp, of Skaneateles,
N. Y., a collection comprising 14 genera, 17 species, of Devonian fossils,
as per the following lists:

No. of specimens.
Hamilton formation:

Strophodonta concava, Hall: 22.23 22252 DRS eeeee nea ot tence edt oe eee 1
Strophodonta varistriata? Conrad .s.:.-4 <i. 2 << doce oan coe ceewee weneee ateeeeeee 1
Rhynchonetla'(L.) imitaris, Vanuxem: 2 =. c.c0-2. 52 Soc soos eee ae See 3
Rhynchonella (L.) quadricostatus, Vanuxem .......--- ---- + seen cecene woes cneene 2
Athyrts Cora, Wall i232 so asas sac cee tee een See ae eee eee nee 1
Atrypaneneularis, Linnseus 552.2. 4;c2/2 22505 one Ses eden ce cseces ose e ee ee
iMicrodon-bellistriatua, Conrad s-2 5 om cose oc oan cate eae ae ee ee Cee 1
Modtomorpha concentrica, Conrad. «..--- 000s ooo sas ecanao ems cecneeeeee vasisiace 2
Modiombrpha alta, (Conrad $22.7... 222: tee bos Soaeieee eee cass cane eee eee 1
Grammysiassubarcuata; Halll: soe 25 22 Sore soon aeons cone ce ce ease cone eee 1
Nyassa anguia Hall) V.2632 S28 cece ba ns ee Se Soe ee ene ne 1
Paracyclas ‘lirata. Conrad ie 28 f kere a oe cinco vate oan ae eee eee 1
Nuculites iiqueter; C ontadizn04 2b oe vane aa eeoe adas cane eae ence ae eee eee Cee 2
Nucila Randal, Hall so2522 j sos Sans dence sure woe as Cao ta cne ae Seen oe eee
Pleurotomaria sulcomarginaia, Conrad ...2 -2<.:: = 22 sc00 o-s00- sceces cnt sebes ene 1
Pleurotomaria sulcomarginata (Morrisville, N. Y.)......-.----- ------ ------ eee - 1
Corniferous limestone:
Strophomena rhomboidalis, Wahlenberg . --........---+---- --<< ----2+ e--ee- -oe- 1
Oriskany sandstone : ,
Spirtferd arenosa; Conrad’... 252.2 o2.ccee: sciece cose ee soe cose Cee eee eee eee 1

Miscellaneous U.S. National Museum accessions :
Stromatopora? sp.? Upper Coal Measures, Pleasant Hill,Mo. From Mr. G. C.
Broadhead, Pleasant) Hill; Mo 22sec cc sosnccciee cae eee e eee ates eee eee 3
14564. Fusulina cylindrica. A quantity of free specimens. From L. O. Perley,
Emporia, Kans.
14019. Astylospongia pramorsa. Niagara formation, ‘Tennessee. From Mr.

W.. 2M. ‘Clark; (Nashiville,;Tenn 2132222 22 eee. tac cece en coe anon See ener 1
14309. Illenus crassicauda, var. Trenton limestone, Lexington, Va. From
Mr. M. B. Harding, Lexington, Va.) <2 .:2122.%-2224- 5-629 2

13966. Scaphiocrinus. Two beautiful specimens on one block. Crawfordsville,
Ind. From Capt. George M. Wheeler, U. S. A.
Microdiscus speciosus. Middle Cambrian, Troy, N. Y. From Mr.8. W. Ford,

Schodack (Landing, N.Y. isi il lccsentd a ban eace cc en oe eee eee Sere re
Halysites catenulata, Linn. Drift of Park County, Indiana. From G. D. Lind,
M. D., Danville, Ind... .4.2.202= asecen sans moves teubeerne ava basins yee eee

Obolella polita, Hall.
Hyolithes primordialis, Hall,

aa

4

REPORT OF DEPARTMENT OF INVERTEBRATE FOSSILS. 205

Ptychoparia? calymenoides, Whitfield.

Ptychoparia sp.?

Agraulos Woosteri, Whitfield. Potsdam sandstone, Eau Claire beds, Dunn County,
Wisconsin. From Public Museum of Milwaukee, Wis., by Mr. Carl Doerflinger,
secretary.

Eurypterus remipes, De Kay. A very fine specimen. Waterlime group, Williams-
ville, N. Y. From Mr. James Temple Brown, U. S. National Museum.

Small miscellaneous collection:
Carboniferous. From Mr. William Kancher, Oregon, Holt County, Missouri.

WORK ON COLLECTIONS.

The direct work on the collections of the Museum has been the re-
cording, identifying, and labeling of the material mentioned under ae-
cessions, and a continuation as opportunity offered of the arrangement
of the old collections of the Smithsonian Institution. The latter work
has been very limited, owing to the writer’s position as paleontologist
in charge of the Paleozoic paleontology of the U.S. Geological Survey,
requiring him and his assistants to devote the most of their time
to original work in connection with the Survey. This work will, in a
large degree, inure to the benefit of the Museum collections, as the
material studied contains many new types and large numbers of spe-
cies illustrating the stratigraphic and geographic distribution of life
during Paleozoic time. |

RESULTS OF THE WORK ON THE COLLECTIONS FROM NEVADA, AS
GIVEN IN MONOGRAPH VIII OF THE U. 8S. GEOLOGICAL SURVEY.

‘As an assistant geologist in the field work, the writer collected most
of the fossils in situ, and studied their mode of occurrence and strati-
graphic relations, thus disposing of an element of uncertainty which
frequently arises in the mind of the paleontologist when examining col-
lections from a region unfamiliar to him, and which presents, in the
strata of the lesser divisions of its great geologic series of rock, asso-
ciations of species unknown elsewhere, or an unusual vertical range of
individual species.

“The succession in the faunal series from the Olenellus (or Middle
Cambrian) fauna, through a large, well-defined fauna of the character
of that of the Potsdam group of New York and the Mississippi Valley,
to one that in its assemblage of species combines both Cambrian and
Silurian types, and passes upward into a fauna comparable to that of
the Quebec group or the Calciferous and Chazy groups, is of special in-
terest. The transition from the Cambrian to the Silurian fauna is very
gradual, and such as would occur where there was no marked physical
disturbance to influence the faunal change resulting from the natural
dying out and development of species or the influx of new species from
other areas.

“The fauna between that of the Silurian and the Devonian horizons is
so meager that the only reference made to it is in the systematic list and
in the lists of the geologic report. (Geology of the Eureka District.)
206 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884.

‘

“The fauna of the Devonian is large and representative, notwith-
standing some species have reversed their relative position in the grotp
as they have been known heretofore, and others have a greater vertical
range.

‘““The fauna of the White Pine shale, in the White Pine district, is in
many respects a peculiar one, combining as it does species ranging from
the Middle Devonian into the Lower Carboniferous. The stratigraphic
position of the shale is at the sammit of the Devonian system and at the
base of the Carboniferous; it is overlain in the Eureka district, where
the section is unbroken, by a massive belt of conglomerate before the
limestones carrying the Lower Carboniferous fauna appear in the sec-
tion. The most strongly marked Carboniferous species are Spiriferina
cristata, Retzia radialis, Athyris sublamellosus, and Cardiomorpha Missou-
riensis. These are associated at the same horizon with such Devonian
species as Discina Lodensis, Productus subaculeatus, Ambocelia umbona,
Rhynchonella (Leiorhynchus) quadricostata, Aviculopecten catactus, and
Inunulicardium fragosum.

“The White Pine shales occupy the same position with relation to
the Devonian and the Carboniferous systems as does the lower portion of
the Pogonip limestone to the Cambrian and Silurian systems. In each
case there are beds of passage carrying a fauna that unites the faunas
of the two systems.

“A summary of the Devonian fauna is given in the following table:

Common to Nevada and

Nevada. ia
New York. eens Towa.
G a 8 yi rea ‘
POUR q q Es
Bo neue!
|
a a A A a 5 3 D D a
o 3
a = 5 8 oQ sy x a 2
FI 3 E = e A 3 3 3
oO ay ° [=m a Ci) a a a
Oo Dn 4 p =) o n mn n
IP Onferas «uc cuaaeteceas ect 3 3 3 1 1 2 loskse cieleaste cea: Sear
ERG UINIOZOR Seen ase ream tetera 14 27 15 13 1 1i it 9 3
RGIS 2082 seo ececzeeceee 2 3 S itsocaee: esses Dilline cies =eAl esisee clas 1
Brachiopnods soc. cas ccn 26 783 50 51 18 26 38 8 11
Lamellibranchiata .....:.. 29 42 27 17 2 27 9 2 2
Gasteropodatcse.. peck es 13 39 23 17 1 i1 12 4) Le feces
BieErOpoOda: =< =< siniceesien os: 5 8 if 2 1 5 B:'| S24 <a2ee| ae eee
Cephalopoda ............-- 4 11 7 CE ieee era A |. casa nae|o5 acictonte| eee ems
(CTURLSCER icine oes seeniae ules 2 2 Dee Paabae | seca ees 2 Widekdcetlacece sc. |seeeeeete
EME CHODOUR aces win = oc ee'es 4 7 4 Sul eeeee mee 4 a Gesrere sseeconc
italics Cen oe ees 102, 2h | da |, toe) et Gelade 17

* And five varieties.

“The Devonian corals, as well as those of the Silurian and Carbon-
iferous, are not illustrated, and only short notes are given of a portion
of the twenty-seven species occurring in the Devonian. From what is
already known of this portion of the fauna there is little doubt but
that future collections from the area of the Great Basin will give a

ss :
REPORT OF DEPARTMENT OF INVERTEBRATE FOSSILS. 207

_ very complete series of species, and still further increase the number
of species common to the eastern and central (or Atlantic and Missis-
_ sippi) areas and the western or Rocky Mountain area.

“The fauna of the Upper Carboniferous’ limestone is composed of

old and well-known species usually occurring at that horizon, and gives

but three species new to the region of the Rocky Mountains, viz,

Ptilodictya Carbonaria, P. serrata, and Macrodon tenuistriata.

“There is a certain commingling of Upper Devonian species with
the Lower Carboniferous fauna. We find Discina Newberryi, Macrodon
Hamiltona, Grammysia Hannibalensis, G. arcuata, Sanguinolites Aolus,
and Pleurotomaria nodomarginata, associated with common Carbonifer-

ous species.

“The discovery of Pulmoniferous mollusks of the genera Physa and

Zaptychius in association with the fresh-water shell Ampullaria Powelli
: and fragments of a flora coniferous in character, supports the strati-
_ graphic evidence of the presence of a near or not distant land area at
the time of the deposition of the Lower Carboniferous rocks of Central
Nevada. It also gives the first notice of the occurrence of the Pulmon-
ifera in rocks of this age; the land shells of Nova Scotia and Illinois
occur in the Coal Measures, and Strophites grandeva, Dawson, is from
the Devonian plant beds of New Brunswick. The bearing of this
discovery on the presence of land areas from the time of the Middle
Paleozoic to the present is important. No other explanation offers than
that there was a continuous fresh-water habitat, ponds or streams,
which permitted the species to descend in a direct line from Paleozoic
time to the present.

“The grouping of the genera and species in the strata is shown in
_@ general manner in the systematic list at the end of this volume, and
in greater detail in the abstract of a report on the geology of the
Eureka district, Nevada, by Arnold Hague, contained in the Third
Annual Report of the Director of the U. 8S. Geological Survey.”

In the accompanying table the number of species known at present
in the Paleozoic formations of Central Nevada is given:

2

=

ie
F
, |
4
+
+
7

,

a]
vo
= : E:
oe ae a oa
Formation. me a a is
ae? [3) co =)
: oe) 2 o 5
ee ee es tee
[eels praia e | a| 6
cy) a ee = a a
o | a | A p °4
ge See oe a ee ae 24 69 82 31 hl eee
Silurian:
RIE Me oe! eet DS pct cela da tet eaeabdeweeleae 47| 99| 384] 31 34 15
PERCNItON. GO . 6-25 -205 ea SS ie ee a ees Seeley 14 15 | Pa | U1 |...»
I on ee ee bat amcuscenaneaewenens 102} 225] 119/] 61 45y cee
MII fC he a ASe CULE Ted oa ckaal cee clue savbecuasese seas 65 | 132 53 50 29 | 3
, I ere Se ee et ew 252 | 540| 242| 173| 125| 18
SRR raider ES 8 es bo abe eden ae Suleetenih) WS ee cc22| sc ome
} Sea | S|) See eS
‘ an ae Boas Es SE nn ete 244.) §29)'| 224) 173) -125 |. cn5
:

208 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884.

PRESENT STATE OF MUSEUM COLLECTIONS.

When the writer took charge of the collection of the Paleozoic inver-

tebrate fossils, in the winter of 1883~84, it was in seven table cases, and

entirely without classification or arrangement. .The first work was to’

remove the dust and dirt from a considerable portion of the collection
that had not been cleaned, and then make a rough separation so as to
group the specimens in their proper geological horizons—Cambrian,
Silurian, Devonian, and Carboniferous, and into their zoologic groups
within those horizons. This was done, and also all the accessions re-
corded and numbered that had been accumulating for a number of
years. The old collections were then left for future study as each geo-
logic fauna was taken up by the writer in connection with his work as
paleontologist in charge of the Paleozoic paleontology of the U.S. Geo-
logical Survey.

As will be noticed under the head of accessions, large additions have
been made to the collection, principally from the Geological Survey.
This material is recorded, labeled, and can readily be placed on ex-
hibition or referred to at once by students or other persons wishing to
see it.

The collection is arranged in thirteen standard cases and in the lab-
oratory storage cases, and is considered as a working collection not yet
prepared for exhibition. When exhibition space is assigned and an
assistant detailed to aid in the work an exhibition series of typical forms
can soon be arranged. The total number of specimens is estimated to
be about 73,000. This includes the Smithsonian collections, those of
the various Government surveys up to the date of the organization of
the present Survey, and the accessions recorded up to the present date,
December 31, 1884.

In the following table is given the number of specimens in the Mu-

seum obtained from the great geologic groups. The figures represent -

the number of specimens of rock, not the number of fossils, as many
blocks contain from two to fifty specimens of fossils each.

Statement showing the number of invertebrate Paleozoic fossils in the National Museum col-
lections December 31, 1884.

Formation. Office. Court. Total.

Gant DMA 5 --=5 . ree oan eee vleliealoeciioe wis dea wes sane pee cemerme sues mes 10848" 2-concries 10, 848
TDG co eae en a SOUR RAND he 3 it itn SET Ba as a 2, 499 9,919 12, 418
WI GVONIAIN os 550 cos wins ence awia dos enciges son smnchmence cusmsctane smears 4, 504 9, 044 13, 548
WAT DONT OLOUB +6 cisco eocsec tems och errs ren beens nmecemercencereesteece 5, 657 28, 031 33, 688
PA BUTENAIN GS oe Pte BC oe Woes b So nias sere see Cie eee na Oe eae Rene OL eee ee OP AN ee 1, 892
Green's casts (plaster): ..5 act asec. ce sc eee io ween seaee eeemer soccer eeeceoee 255 255

O71 a ee AM ie Re AN Re 25,400 | 47,249| 72, 649

Owing to the writer being engaged in field work during several months
of the year, and the demands made by duties connected with the Geo-

ae
REPORT OF DEPARTMENT OF INVERTEBRATE FOSSILS. 209

logical Survey, it is impossible to give any considerable amount of time
to labeling the old collection and preparing it for exhibition.

The administrative duties of the department are attended to, and all
the office work of the writer and two assistants adds to the value of
the collections, as the material worked over and studied is transferred
when fully prepared to the Museum collections.

RECOMMENDATIONS,

It is respectfully suggested that provision be made by the Museum for
the employment of an assistant, who shall be engaged in work connected
with the Paleozoic collections of fossils. It is required, in order to put
the old collections on exhibition and to record and take eare of the ac-
cessions.

S. Mis, 33, pt. 2——14
APPENDIX I.

Lists of the species transferred from the U. S. Geological Survey.

No. of No. of
speci- speci-
mens. mens.
DEVONIAN. DEVONIAN—Continued.
Brachiopoda. Brachiopoda—Continued.
Lingula Alba-pinensis, Walcott .-.--..----- 6 || Spirifera Alba-pinensis, H.& W . .....-- i
ene THIS Soo 5 acs hee aes eae 1 disjuncta, Sowerby .--.-------.--. 26
AG CO TIAN, Sarat le hte Memeo cers 1 Englemani, Meck ...--...-....... il
LIigea, Hall, var. Nevadensis, Wal- glabra, var. Nevadensis, Walcott .- 17
COtty Se oS ee ee eee ere 3 Parry. Hat eee eaee ae cect ae 5
Lonensis, Walcott .-...------------ 2 Pinonensis, Meek ...---.--.------ 53
MelemHall ee vee oe ee ee 4 raricesta (Conrad) ? Hall . Bere 20
tga Walcott 4 strigosus, Meek, S. disjuncta De
Fic see co heee Ses 1 Wermenily 2; ee -ee eee: 8
Diseina Lodensis, Hall ....-- 12 subwmbond, Hall: 5.202 2oscseeasel-aeeee
mintitas Halge i oi26- as cose eee 4 (M.) Maia, Billings. .----. .--.--- 67
1s ee ee ee aa 1 MaTCOsd, Tall 9 Sense eee ee 1
Pholidops bellula, Walcott...--..---.--.---- 4 undiferd. ROemMer. .2--.-2---+-=-" 26
quadrangularis, Walcott .--.---. al undifera, var. setigera, Hall ....-. 1
Ohonetes deflecia, Hall.........--.---.---=-- 66 Spiteaoe coc eee nen eee seer coe 5
jilistriata, Walcott.....-.--.------ 23 || Spiriferina cristata, Schlotheim .--...------- 1
hemispherica, Hall......--..------ 7 || Amboceha wmbonata, Conrad .......---.--- 7
macrostriata, Waicott ..---..---- 30 || Cyrtina Davidsoni, Walcott --.-.-----.-.--- 2
mucronata. Hall. 22... es ceees= 2 Hamiltone; Hall eee eee we sector 1
petigera Hall. | 5 foes eee 7 || Nucleospira concinna, Hali ...-.-....--..-- 2
SDalicpccnsce nes cscad ca@emasceesmeclemaas Trematospira infrequens, Walcott .--------- us
eOptUena spits 52 vse oases BES: ie Retzia radtalis: (Phaillipsi-5-<-- eee eee ose 3
Productus (P.) Hallanus, Walcott. .--..----- 9 | Athyris angelica, Hall .----. i uapeesbessaes 34
hirsutiforme, Walcott..-.. -| 35 Spi Peel. AA. ee ae Bee eee 1
lachrymosa, var. lima (Con- Meristella nasuta, Conrad ..-.-.-.-----.----- 11
TAG) MAU Noes aa a Sees 18 | Atrypa desquamata, Sowerby ..--..--------- uf
MAACEMUS HAN epee eee ae 19 reticularis (Linn.) Dalman ......-- 107
lachrymosa, var. stigmata, Rhynchonella castanea, Meek. .-----.-- ---- 87
ic ft ea ees eee Oper 16 duplicata, Hall -.-.--..--- ae 30
Shumardianus, Hall.-.-.-... -- 16 LEVIN OTS AE Bc IW 2 oases oe 1
Shumardianus, var. pyxt- | Horsfordt, Hall 2222. 2o aco ie
datis Halles ase e. ee ee 7 pugnus, Martin ...........-- 24
apeciosus, Hollies one aac 25 occidens, Walcott. .-.......--- 12
subaculeatus, Murch..-.---. 44 quadricostata, Vanuxem...-.- 50
truncatus, Hall. o2. 220255: 5 Tethys, Billings) <o2225 sacra 6
SDid dae cig mai cee ue eerie s 1 Laung, pilings) oye. s2 50
Orthve vinpressd, Haesss, 2-2 050 Soeoee 93 (L.) Nevadensis, Walcott -.- - 16
MeFarlanes, Meek .....222s5= seee2 oe 10 (I..) sinuatus, Hall. ...2-- 22-5 35
Pallvensie, Way oe. oe sera ae mens a SE || Geptocasia sp. 422.9 e ee ease eee 2
Mantuaems a eee tana eiainceeee 11 || Pentamerus comis, Owen ..-...-.------------ 66
Skenidiuwm Devonicum, Walcott --.---- ee 1 otis, Walcott... --=-0--= ssa 13
Streptorhynchus Chemungensis (Conrad), | Tropidoleptus carinatus, Hall ..........---- 3
[CU oe eRe ree ooosseccrbenss scmsnoc se 10 || Cryptonella ? circula, Walcott ..-....------- 5
Streptorhynchus Chemungensis, var. Pan- Pinonensis, Walcott ...------- i
HOV POMS. W 7. oceccanneeeeendeeasceeeoe. 1) 86 Gh os ee Ee sneak 1
Streptorhynchus Chemungensis, var. perveta, Terebratula ap RSet Lue 52 Ba aere cele 7
SLE Seen 2 oe conic mind Seene ence coer 36 Number of species, 80; number of
Strophomena rhomboidalis, Wilckens .--.--. 18 specimens, 1,549.
Strophodonta arcuata, Hall..... ..-.-...--- 2
Calms, Miller -s- 325 225-222 - 13 Lamellibranchiata.
canace, H. & W..-.-- ae 6
demissa (Conrad) ? Hall .---- ¢ 25 || Aviculopecten ? catactus, Meek ..-..--.-..--- 40
hemispherica, Rall....-------- Bi weterinopecten spt 22. ees aceeniee ees 1
inequiradiata, Hall...-...---- 60 NGiyntodesma spite o.oo ene eee eee 5
matersont, Wall 35) sms sac © 4 || Pterinea Newarkensis, Walcott ...----.----- 2
perplana, Con.ad (Hall) ..---- 7 abelia, Conrage-= =. ome. smear 6
punetulifera (Conrad) Hall .-. 5 || Actinoptera Boydii, Conrad...---..--------- 1
(miscellaneous) .....--..-..-- 6 || Leiopteria Rafinesqui, Hall .......... .----- ' 8
210

REPORT OF DEPARTMENT OF INVERTEBRATE FOSSILS.

Devon1an—Continued.
Lamellibranchiata—Continued. |

Leptodesma transversa, Walcott -

Limoptera sarmenticia, Walcott .

HMytilarca dubia, Walcott ._-
Chemungensis, Conrad

eee ee eee ee ee eee eee ee ee eT)

P-
Plethomytilus oviformis, Conrad
Modiomorpha altiforme, Walcott .....-..---
oblonga, Walcott .-....-------
ootusa, Waloott .. 2. .2.5:-<:
Goniophora perangulata, Hall ....-..--.-.--
Paleoneilo sp. ?
Nucula Rescuensis, Walcott..-... -..--..---

all
Nuculites triangularis, EE GW eee ee
Dystactella insularis, Walcott -......--.---.
Megambonia occidualis, Walcott.......-.--.
Nyassa parva, Walcott ....-....---.---.----
Giammysia minor, Walcott ..-..-..---..---
Edmondia Pinonensis, Meek
Cardiomorpha Missouriensis, Shumard .
Sanguinohtes rigidus, White & Whitfield. -
Sanduskyensis, Meek
ventricosus, White & Whitfield
Combensis, Walcott. ...-.-..---
raedis, Walcott. ....-.-...--.
Conoeardium Ne

no
NOK RAN RK RNR eR WMH Oe De moe

Lunulicardium fragosum,. aon Sih ee
Paracyclas occidentalis, Hall...........-.--.
peroccidens, H. ws W
Posidunomya Devonica, Walcott .....-..----
levis, Walcott
Microdon macrostriata, Walcott .....-- ---.
Anadontopsis amygdalaeformis, Walcott --.
Cypricardinia indenta, Conrad (sp.) .------.-
Schizodus (Oytherodon) orbicularis, Walcott.
Number of species, 38; number of
specimens, 240.

noc

_
NRE WH HE wR ww Ree

Gasteropoda.

Platyceras carinatum, Hall
COMIN, TAA 2 <s'53cc05snseec0's

Conradi, Mi silat Sp es eases:
dentalium, bi) | eee ee eee

monosun, CONnTse 6.026) 25-5:
thetiforme, Walcott.......-......

Teer Eee ccs Sit a

ager rma Wraloottscc2-sc<5255-

undt -

Platyostoma ‘ineata, Conrad .........-

ee

Te om nkatas Devonicus, Walcott
Euomphalus Eurekensis, Walcott
(P.) lazus, Hall
(P.) luzus, White

-_ _
Ree De OHO LOOM ERN DOR WON RR ON)

Straparollus Newarkensis, Walcott ..-..-.- |
Cyclonema (like O. multilira, Hall)
REPER LOMOTE BDO oe iso See ass os = 58. ca5.
Platyschisma? por igen s Walcott

= le Wialcott.2.2.~-=+-

.
'
="

_

| Metoptoma? Devonica, Walcott -

Drvyon1aAn—Continued.
Gasteropoda—Continued.

Loxonema approximata, Walcott ....---..-.
Eurekensis, Walcott. ....-....--.

Ser Walcott. c-ce- tmp anpeee
Bellerophon Dombsi. Walodhter< =... 4. ..5.
PF RAS EN ee Pe ee

TANG. AGU on Soe oe ene concn ae

Pele 8, Hall. ase Seana
perplexa, Walcott ts fens ioe oe
Scoliostoma Americana, Walcott...... eerie
Naticopsis dike. N. cequiatriaia) -.--.....--.-

Number of species, 40; number of
specimens, 275.

Pteropoda.

BUCA ELON 3 oo) paca arc ae

peer Rees Halll 27.2.2 -5.
scalariformis, Hall ..........---.

Styliola fie GSR WEG a) ek eta
ylio sure
Oonularia sp. ?
Ooleolus ew WalGOUG cee see sa

Sp.?
Number of species, 11; number of
specimens, 107.

Cephalopoda.

Orthoceras sp.? (5 species) ....--..----------
Gomphoceras para dae Walcott -

Pp
Oyrtoceras cessutor, H. & W ....--.----------
eoadenes We Siateam. ae ae en
Gyroceras sp. ? 7
Goniatites esideratus, SWalantes cee co
Kingi, H. & W
(like G. discoideus, ge 1h Ree
Number of species, 14; number of
specimens, 81.

Crustacea.

Beyrichia occidentalis, Walcott...-..--. ---
Leperditia rotundata, Walcott. .-.....-..--.

Sp-
Number of species, 3; number of
specimens, 23.

Pecilopoda.

Phacops rana (Green) Hall
Dalmanites rai Wralaeiticss.30 oc ccccce cas

ee

Sp.?
Phillipsia ornata, TRE ore ttm sie a slo emake
Number of species, 7; number of
specimens, 121.

=

RoSmann

_
NranNw

5 oo no

212

REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884.

From the Carboniferous the record shows 103 species and 1,627 speci-

levatiforme, Widltobtien ase iewasntces

Number of species, 1; number of

mens.
No. of No. of
speci- speci-
mens. || mens
1
CARBONIFEROUS. | CARBONIFEROUS—Continued.
Brachiopoda. | Lamellibranchiata—Continued.

Discina connata, Walcott .............----- 4 | Solenomya curta, Walcott ...........--..-- 3
Newberry’, Hall! ees sose essa asiee 30 | Macrodon Hamiltone, Hall ..........-...-. 32
Wewberryt, all? cos eee ee cee 7 || truncata, Walcott.......-.--...-- 2
lei PhillipsSs- te. Sees ee ose 5 || tenuistriata, Meek & Worthen .. 1
Spi P5tse20 ees 8 ee ee cee 1 | Grammysia Hannibalensis, Shumard ...-.. 16

Lingula mytiloides, Sowerby ? ...------..-- 6 || arcuata, Conrad .........-..-- 5

Chonetes ranulifera, Owenkess8 eS eas. 31 || Edmondia Medon, Walcott ... ........---- 9

erneutliana, N. & P......-.----. 8 g circularis, Walcott) i2225 B25: 1
Productus Cora, D’ Orb ee PERE & 57 || Pleurophorus Meeki, Walcott ............--. 2
costatus, Sowerby yest ote sae ee 4 || Sanguinolites Holus, M.& W....--.... .-- 80
costatus, var.? Sowerby oe eeee 9 ? Nenia, Walcott .......-...- 1
elegans McCoy (5 "22-4! aon 5 retusus, Walcott.-:).<c---s-=. 3
longispinus, Sowerby ....-..----- 13 Salteri, Walcott .-....-:..2..- 1
punctatus (Martin) .... ..--..-- 20 simplex, Walcott ..-...--.--- 1
semtreticulatus (Martin) De Ko- ae Wiatcott sec). ose se: 4
MING Rae reenter a anee. 20 PB Bp. 3.225352 Java Pesta 4
Ee hs Min heene tA ee see 14 Marien tOsenceraaany connatus, Walcott. 4
BOveralisps jum eon oe ee eee 50 || Cardiola ? filicostata, Walcott ............- 1
Streptorhynchus ints (Phillips) Da- Schizodus cuneatus, Meek ..........--...---- 7
VISOR He We eee ye ee eee res 25 curtiforme, Wialcott.24 eee 4
Orihisvrecosy Marcon se ne eee eee eee 25 deparcus, Walcott:-.-4..-...-.... 1
resupinata (Martin) De Koninck.... 44 Pin'Gensis, Walcott .- Lae apis’ 8
Spirifera annectans, Walcott ....-.-..-.---- 1 Number of species, 42; number of
camerata, Martin......-.-----.-- 31 specimens, 445.
desiderata, Walcott........-...-- 1
trigonalis (Martin) Sowerby...-... i Gasteropoda.
TERY UMN othe nese apeese sce toes 14
Meglecta sHall® ss secs esse. hae 12 || Platyceras occidens, Walcott ..............- 2
Rockymontana, Marcou ..-.....-.. 34 Piso; Waleott..5- 8s voscss cece = 1
airinta; Martin’ o2-2.seecne. casees 19 || Platyostoma inornata, Walcott......-...-.-. rl
young sahielles sot Pee ee 17 || Huomphalus subrugosus, M. & W......-.--- 1
(Martinia) setigera, 53071 | ee 23 || Loxonema pou Wialeotti.2seee lass ceeeee we 1

Syringothyris cuspidatus (Martin) King - - 12 | URGES CoE AOE EASA eat at 1

Spiriferina cristata, Schlotheim ...........- 35 Miuchvookedben Spt ts ye Site ‘| 1

Retzia radialis, Phillips .............--.---. 60 || Pleurotomaria Eurekensis, “Walcott......... 10

Verneuvtiiana, Halle 2. 2) e ee eeces 30 nodomarginata, McChesney. 4

Athyris Royssii (L. Eveille) McCoy enue ee 5 Sas Frys oases sees eects 15
sublamellosa, Hall.........-------.- 45 || IN ACICOM STR Ot Spe ts Sates chain mais arate sleet tetele | 4
subtilita (Hall) Newberry. --...-- 26 || Bellerophon majuscula, Walcott --.-..-.--- | 11
Spite ates ay ae eens. ce uae Se 3 tecinds, Hales scc aces donee 10

Gx aiaria Eurekensis, Walcott ....-..... 48 QS Dette ate ecteetg ares tte ete 8

Thera, Walodtés../ oval isn 18 || Metoptoma peroceidens, Walcott 2205.22 2
Utah, "Marcon 28.0. Gunse |. 21 || Ampullaria? Powelli, Walcott .......-....-. Many
Spee ee ree ee ees aa 2 Number of species, 11; number of
le dy Aa hepa ted Shumard....... 28 specimens, 72.
errebratula bovidens, Martin..............- 4 .
» hastata, Sower LOM eee aoe ase 48 Pubonifera.
PAT) Oe Hen Alm area eee 21 || Zaptychius Carbonaria, Walcott....-.-..--. Many
Number of species, 38; number of Physaprisea, Walcott—.-- ss. sss ssee m= Many
specimens, 941. Number of species, 2.
Lamellibranchiata. Pteropoda.
Aviculopecten afinis, Walcott... ........--. 102 || Conularia Missouriensis, Shumard.........- 1
Hurekensis, Walcott .....-..-. 5 || Hyolithes Carbonaria, Walcott ......-.--.-- 2
Haguet,, Walcott 5.--.-..--.-- 4 || Dentaliwm (like D. Primarium), Halle co. = | 8
peroccidens, Walcott .--...-.-. 13 Number of species, 3; number of |
Pintoensis, Walcott .-.....--. 2 specimens, 11.
2 BPo Ps ae ee ee 10 Cephalonoda ;

Streblopteria similis, Walcott.......... etal ed ale aa

Orenipecten Hallanus, Walcott..........--. 7 || Orthoceras Eurekensis, Walcott -.........-- 3

Pterinopecten Hoosacensis, Walcott......-.. 2 annulatocostata, M.& W ..-..... 6

Spio, Walcott’: er oe come 5 Qigpek Vj was. ste We sas asics 3

Pterinea aeons, Wealcatieasennssceecsae 2)1| Gomphoceranisp,s tc ascco-sies = eee eee ieee | 2

TRDLORER EBD. <5 te sce ee ee, oon ee 5 || Nautilus (like NV. Digonus. M. & W.) .---.-- | 2

Ptychopteria protoforme, Walcott. 2-5 2-csc. Li ||) Gontatitessp: 3 ves vee asdeee ete ee .| it

Pinna consimilis, Walcott ................. 9 Number of species, 5; number of |

— inexpectans, yee ES eA eae 9 specimens, 17

yalina congeneris, Walcott ..............-. 5 || |
Nemes Wralcottonee 6 eens 3 || Crustacea.
Nessus, Walcott ......... aRaa oe Bi aependitia Spe tt. aco cae se semeeente 11
Modiola Nevadensis, Walcott .......--...-.-. 4 Number of species, 1; number of
Modiomorpha ie aga Wietoe oe aes Sees 1 specimens, 11.
esideraia, Walcott....... dee 3 Fa
Pintoensis, Walcott..-......- 15 Leniae:
Nucula insularis, Walcott -.......-....-.- 10 || Grifithides Portlocki, M. & W..--.-..---.-.. 140
4
7

DiSPiils.ccrsote sane asewe Nic ce eee

specimens, 140.

—_s*

REPORT OF DEPARTMENT

OF

INVERTEBRATE FOSSILS.

213

Devonian fossils from the Hamilton group at Moravia, N. Y., trans-
ferred from the U. 8S. Geological Survey :

||

No. of,
speci-
mens.
H
DEVONIAN. \
Actinozoa. |
Streptelasma rectum, Hall........-----..---- 53 |
Chetetes Jurcatus, alert ee ey 3
PPTLEROORULR, FLOM Ninny ae ne Bh men 37 |
Number of species, 3; number of
specimens, 93.
Echinodermata.
|
Platycrinus Eboraceus, Hall .--...-...------ 4
MECMIUIINELAINE So Cote ee cnet cas nna: 16 |
Number of species, 2; number of
specimens, 20.
Polyzoa.
HGR RAT tion 2! - 22205) 2 ees 39

Number of species, 1; number of
specimens, 39.

Brachiopoda.

Pholidops iHamilona: Hall
Chonetes coronata, Hall
_ lepida, Hall
muricata, Hall
ae Hall

nh

ee ae as ardianus, Hall
Orthis Vanuxemi, Hall
Strophodonta concova, Hall
demissa, Conrad
inequistriata, Conrad
perplana, Conrad
textilis, Hall
Spirifera 6s Aa i Conrad (Cooperstown,
)

or ane
KP IWNOCTUNIWSCHAAAUMACMONW:

i

Pe eee 2
Jjimbriata, Cuumrai: 2) 2 csecde 18
granulifera, Conrad .-...-----..-- 46
medialis, Hallie goes. a am 52
mucronata, Conrad ..........----. 76 |
LATTA) GAA 8 (CN OR PIs eee eas ore ee 3 ||
Ambocelia umbonata, Conrad .....-.------- 50
Athyris spiriferoides, Eaton ----....------. 48
Atrypa reticularis, Linnzus ........-.--.--. 56
var. itl tias HAM oon sacs 5
Rhynchonella Horsfordi, Hall ..........--.- 1
multicostata, Hall ........---- 8
Rhynchonella le eal boty ya BAe SE eee 83
8) EC ee Na So Ee 4
Tropidoleptus, ar SA ese arom oScie oe = a 25
Cryptonella Eudora, Hall (Ithaca, N.Y.) - 15
Number of species, 32; number of
specimens, 747.
Lamellibranchiata.
Aviculopecter. _ Ida, Hall ...-...-........- 1},
mucronatus, Sangeet ]
Phorcus; Hall” 22.2 J.2252.<5. 1
princeps, Conrad ......-..-..-- 5 |
ee ee, toa canoe 17
EE et ae Ree 4
Actinopteria tdehsadis PERSRL eee a eeioes 1
Pwrinopecten exfoliatus, ST ee ae aa 2
CUVOUMUET Soon ecu secede nse 1
OO SE See nae a eee 2

| Pterinea Aabelia, Conrad

| Phthonia sectifrons, C

Schizodus appressus, Conrad

'| Oyrtolites mitella, Hall

| Tentaculites scalariformis, Hall
Hyolithes aclis, Hail

DrEvonIAN—Continued.
Lamellibranchiata—Continued.
Glyptodesma erectum, Conrad

Leiopteria sp.? .. sere
Mytilarea (P.) oviformis, Hall .
Modiomorpha alta, Conrad
complanata, Hall
pe dhe Conrad

Sp.?
Goniophora Hamiltonensis, Hall .
rugosa, Conrad
Paleoneilo constricta, Conrad
emaryginata, Conrad
maxima, Conrad
, muta, Hall
plana, Hall

Nucula Peete Conrad
corbuliformis, Hall. .
liraia, Conrad
Randalli, Hall..

Nuculites Nyassa, Hall

oblongata, Hall
triqueter, Conrad

Leda diversa, Hall

rostellata, Hall

Grammysia arcuata, Conrad

lirata, Hall

Edmondia Philipi, Hall

subnasuta, Hall

Cardiomorpha bellatula, Hall

Sanguinolites cuneatus, Conrad

Lunulicardium fragile Hall

Paracyclas tenuis, Hall

Macrodon Hamiltone, Hall

bellistriatus, Conrad
tenuistriata, Hall

Prothyris lanceolata, Hall

Modiella p ygmed, Conrad

Tellinopsis emarginata, Conrad

Cimataria recurva, ae

Orthonata parvula, ERs cae eee

Number of species, 53; number of
specimens, 482.

Gasteropoda.

Platyceras carinatum, Hall

erectum, Hall

Platyostoma lineatum, Conrad

Pleurotomaria capillaria, Conrad
Itys, Hall

triliz, Hall

Loxonema delphicola, Hall

Hamiltonensis, Hall

Bellerophon Leda, Hall

crenistria, Hall

atulus, Hall

Number of species, 11; number of
specimens, 75.

Pteropoda.

aclis, var. petaloide, Tall. - 2. sok
stridtus, Hall
Sp. ?

© wr
Ob STR OO WO CO et OD bo

wo

~

LWmpe w
~oonmonw

cs bo
CO OV OAD Gp et ee 0 ID OD OT et et et Ok

tor bo Oe
214 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884.

} | hn ten ) SESE
No. of |No. of

speci- speci-

mens. mens.
DEvon1An—Continued. DEvontlaAn—Continued.
Pteropoda—Continued. Cephalopoda—Continued.

Coleolus tenuicinctum, Hall ....-.----------- 471 "Gonratetes Sp; oc<n coc > cee eee aunt 4
Conularia undulata, Conrad ..--.-.--------- 1 || Nautilus liratus, var. juvenis, Hall..-.....-. 1
Number of species, 6; number of Number of species, 8; number of

specimens, 16. | specimens, 66.
Cephalopoda. | Pecilopoda.

Orthoceras crotalum, Hall .......----------- | 10) |) Phaecape rang, Greene sa) aeece «ane =e oer 30
MUNIN, PE ee ann ele 10 || Dalmanites Boothii, Green ......---.------- 13
subulatum, Hall ........-.-.---..| 5 || Homalonotus DeKayi, Green ...------------ 2
Teamon, Mell... toe e ll Silekensidess occ 2-.1-.20 ee eens | 16
SJR seek eee eS Seem ae | 26 Number of species, 4; number of

Goniatites discoideus, Hall .......----------- 8 specimens, 61.

Genera, 65; species, 120; specimens, 1,599.

The above collection will be of value in the comparative study of
faunas from the Devonian, as it is from one locality and shows varia-
tions in the species not observed elsewhere.

“The general character of the fauna of the Cambrian, Silurian,
Devonian, and Carboniferous strata of the Eureka and White Pine
mining districts of Central Nevada is given in this work more to illus-
trate the stratigraphic succession and equivalency of the geologic hori-
zons with those described elsewhere than as a detailed monograph of
the invertebrate fossils, since for the latter purpose much more exten-
sive collections are necessary to represent the large fauna of the Paleo-
zoic system of Central Nevada than we have at present.”

XII (8).—DEPARTMENT OF INVERTEBRATE FOSSILS, MESOZOIC
AND CENOZOIC.

By C. A. Wuire, Honorary Curator.

This report necessarily embraces an account of a large part of the
work which has been done by my division of the U. 8. Geological Sur-
vey, because myself and all of my assistants except one are regularly
employed as members of that organization; also much the greater part
of the material which is now being received for fhis division of the
Museum comes from parties connected with the Survey.

Besides myself, the following persons connected with the Survey have
been employed in my division of the Museum work during the year: J.
B. Mareou, Lawrence ©. Johnson, Frank Burns, P. C. George, J. P.
Hendley, and ©. B. Boyle. In addition to these, Dr. R. H. Singleton
has been detailed from the Museum for work in connection with the
registers and catalogues. It will of course be understood that for a
part of the year the persons mentioned above who are connected with
the Survey are not engaged upon Museum work. All of them spend
more or less of the year in the field work of the Survey, and some of
them are engaged mainly in the collection of fossils, which are sent to
the Museum.

ACCESSIONS.

There have been received at the Museum during the past year about
85 boxes of fossils which pertain to my division, the number being
somewhat indefinite because many of the boxes which are sent contain
material which pertains to other divisions. These accessions embrace
collections made in California, Oregon, New Jersey, Florida, Alabama,
and Mississippi.

As is usually the case with such collections, a part of the material is
not available for Museum purposes; but still these accessions are mak-
ing large additions to the Museum material of a very important char-
acter. These new collections also embrace species which have not before
been in the possession of the Museum. This is especially the case with
the collections from California and the Gulf States.

Fifteen accessions sent by private parties to the Museum have been
received by my division during the year. Most of these are of little vaiue

215
216 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884.

as accessions, but a part of them are desirable. They have, however,
all received proper attention, as required by the rules of the Museum.

ROUTINE WORK.

Besides the work of classifying and arranging the collections, the
routine work of my division has consisted largely in duplicating the
registers and the preparation of catalogues. Copies of the three large
volumes of the registers have been made, consisting of 3,500, 8,899, and
12,900 entries, respectively. These copies have been delivered to Mr.
©. D. Walcott, who has charge of the Paleozoic fossils.

A complete index of all the Mesozoic and Cenozoic invertebrate fossils
of North America, wherever published, is in an advanced state of prep-
aration, and it is expected that it will be ready for publication during
the year.

A catalogue of all the type specimens of the Mesozoic and Cenozoic
species belonging to the Museum is nearly completed, and will soon be
offered for publication in the Proceedings of the Museum. It is based
upon a careful selection and verification of the specimens, and will show
the Museum registry number of each, as well as the date and place of
description and illustration.

The reviewing and labeling of all the fossils belonging to this divis-
ion, exclusive of the later collections of the Geological Survey and the
49 boxes sent last year from Texas by Mr. George Stolley, have been
completed. The Stolley collection has been unpacked, a few trays full
selected for the Museum, and the remainder stored in the Armory
building.

The entries in the Museum register for the year range from 12,231 to
13,389, inclusive.

A collection of Mesozoic and Cenozoic fossils, consisting of 100 species,
has been sent to Prof. Samuel Calvin, of the lowa State University, in
exchange for fossils received from him by the Museum a year or two
previously. A collection of 18 specimens of fossiliferous rocks have
been delivered to Mr. George P. Merrill, in charge of the Department
of Lithology in the Museum.

PRESENT STATE OF THE COLLECTIONS.

It is not at present practicable to make any satisfactory statement as
to the present state of the collections, because, for want of sufficient
help and suitable room in which to work, they have not been fully
classified, and none of them are yet installed. Upon the completion
of the study of any collection or group of species the specimens have
been put away in trays, where they await an opportunity for their clas-
sification and installation.

Speaking in a general way, I may say that the collections contain a
large part of the types of the species of fossil invertebrates which
have beep published in the official reports of the United States sur-

rn.

REPORT OF DEPARTMENT OF INVERTEBRATE FOSSILS rb a

veys and explorations. A few of these have perhaps been lost, and
some have never reached the Museum. They also contain so large a
number of authentic specimens of other species, that resort to the other
great collections of the country is seldom necessary, so far as North
American forms are concerned.

The collections that are now being added to the Museum, together
with those which it already possesses, are to be the standards of refer.
ence for the national geological work, and it is therefore essential that
provision be made for their safety and accessibility. The Museum work
of my division is very much retarded for want of suitable room in which
to work and suitable cases in which to arrange the specimens. So great
is the want in this respect that we often find it impracticable to get
access to the material which it is necessary to study; and the collec-
tions are also inaccessible to other naturalists who may desire to study
them. Convenient access at all times to the collections is necessary,
because questions are constantly arising in the progress of the Govern-
ment geological work which can be solved only by their aid. It may be
mentioned, however, as an encouraging fact, that the more important
part of the collections is comparatively safe, so far as danger of their
destruction is concerned.
i oe

XUI.—DEPARTMENT OF FOSSIL PLANTS.

By Lester F. WarRD, Honorary Curator.

Only a few scattering accessions have been made to the department
during the year, and no work strictly appertaining to the curatorship
was undertaken until after the beginning of November, owing to my not
having any assistants and to being constantly employed in the prepara-
tion of reports for the Geological Survey. The material which I am
elaborating for these reports will, however, be ultimately turned over to
the Museum, and will largely increase its collections.

On November 5, Mr. Frank H. Knowlton was assigned to duty in the
Department of Fossil Plants, and since that date he has been employed
in devising and perfecting a system of cataloguing and installing the ac-
cessions. A large amount of miscellaneous and undetermined material
had accumulated which it had been impossible for me to attend to, and
this he has carefully and intelligently examined, classified, and cata-
logued. This material, therefore, 1 am now able, for the first time, to em-
brace in my enumeration of stock in hand. Mr. Knowlton has also
performed a large number of minor duties incident to the routine work
of the department which had been deferred for want of time, and is in-
trusted with the care of specimens as they arrive, and with all clerical
work, which I hope may hereafter be attended to without delay.

Mr. A. L. Schott, formerly of the Botanic Garden, who has been em-
ployed in the Museum to attend to the palms and other ornamental
plants in the rotunda and on the adjacent balconies, was also assigned
to my department early in November, and the permission given me to
command his services during such portion of the time as they were not
required in the care of the plants intrusted to his charge. The great
need I was laboring under of specimens of living plants for comparison
with fossil impressions, coupled with Mr. Schott’s peculiar fitness for
collecting the exotic plants of the parks, streets, and greenhouses of
the city, determined me to intrust him with the duty of making such a
collection. It gives me pleasure to testify to the intelligent and satis-
factory manner in which he has performed this duty. The specimens
he daily brings, and which are carefully dried and preserved, represent
species from all parts of the world, and especially from the tropics and

219
220 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884.

the Southern Hemisphere, and they therefore constitute a most valu-
able basis for the study of Miocene fossil plants, which usually possess
so little analogy with the floras of north temperate latitudes. It is to
be regretted that Mr. Schott’s work was begun so late that few of the
hardy exotics of the parks and streets could be obtained before the
advent of frosts; but it is hoped that this work may be resumed and
completed next season.
The following was the state of the collections at the close of the year:
1. Total number of specimens of catalogued material (exclusive of my recent
collections still in hand for study and not yet formally turned over to the
National: Misenm))) 3232.2 eos. eee eeeeane Gece cee eee ee eee 7, 291

2. Specimens in the Museum, but which have not been Seer aie determined,
and consisting toa great extent of silicified wood, petrified stems, trunks, &c. 2,270

3. Determined eatin Safe, ahaa Stee a oie rare Sale aise apa/ mings elena ee ener ee crepe 5, 021
4. In the reserve series, many of which,thowever, are duplicates and can ulti-

mately be used for purposes of exchange.-..:...--2.-.-.-----.-- ear a 3, 930
5. Duplicates specially selected as such and now stored at the Armory Building. 1,091
6. Number of distinct species identified, catalogued, and installed.....-....--- 923
7. Of which Paleozoic, chiefly Carboniterdus © ««.-..<-2-- oto =eo-nos se ene Rae 272
8, Cretaceous, chiehy Dakots croup ..----2 72-5 20-0 carci coeeee eee eames 142
9. Tertiary and Laramie group, largely the latter, which were classed as Eocene

in the catalogue prepared by Mr. Lesquereux.---..-..---.-2---.-205 se---- 509

It is, perhaps, too early to speak of the proposed new department of
botany which I learn is about to be established in the Museum and
placed under my immediate charge, but I cannot repress my great
satisfaction at such a step, and I desire to assure you of my hearty co-
operation in making it a complete success.

XIV.—DEPARTMENT OF MINERALOGY,

By F. W. CLARKE, Honorary Curator.

During the year the growth of the mineral collection has been steady
and encouraging. Material of great value has been received from many
sources, the work of installing the collection has been definitely begun,
and a system of exchanges has been fairly inaugurated. In connection
with my duties as chief chemist of the U. S. Geological Survey, I have
been able to institute some scientific investigations upon minerals col-
lected in the field, and similar work has also been carried forward by
certain of my assistants.

A list of all the accessions to the mineral collection during 1854 would
be too bulky for publication, but a brief résumé of the more notable
ones may be interesting. The first place must be given, both by merit
and in courtesy, to the admirable suite of American minerals loaned to
the Museum by Mr. Joseph Willcox, of Media, Pa. This collection num-
bers some 1,400 specimens, and fills the equivalent of six large sloping-
top cases of three shelves each. It is remarkably rich in quartzes,
rutiles, corundums, feldspars, amphiboles, pyroxenes, micas, tourma-
lines, pyrophyllites, apatites and danburites, and in some of its series
it could hardly be paralleled. Next in importance is the Abert collec-
tion, which, made by Col. J. J. Abert, was presented to the Museum by
his son, J.T. Abert, and contains 1,245 specimens. It was particularly
rich in foreign material, and filled many serious gaps in the Museum
series.

To Prof. S. F. Peckham of Minneapolis, Minn., we are indebted for
a handsome group of cut specimens of pebbles cf thomsonite from Min-
nesota. From Mr. J. D. Schreiber of Shimersville, Pa., we received a
large, fine crystal of corundum, together with several smaller ones, all
of them from Shimersville. From Mr. Richard Pearce of Argo, Colo.,
we received a number of rare arsenates and phosphates of copper from
the American Eagle Mine, Utah. Another lot of this material was col-
lected for this department, last summer, by Mr. F. P. Dewey, Curator of
the Department of Metallurgy.

Another large group of accessions is attributable to the appropria-
tion made for the Museum exhibit at the New Orleans Exposition. A

part of this appropriation was allotted to the mineral department for
221
222 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884.

the purchase and collection of specimens, with very favorable results.
Instead of attempting a general display of minerals it was thought best
to take up‘one special class, and the class chosen for exhibition was
that of “gems and ornamental stones.” The schedule which was
adopted included all the gems proper, rock crystal, agates and jaspers,
malachite, lapis lazuli, jet, meerschaum, amber &c.; and every impor-
tant gem or ornamental species was secured both in the rough and cut
conditions. About one thousand specimens of this class are now on
exhibition in New Orleans, of which nearly or quite one-third are cut
and polished stones. Educationally, the gem collection is practically
complete, and needs only to be improved by the addition of minor va-
rieties or the replacement of small specimens by better ones. <A part
of this collection was shown at the Cincinnati Exposition in September.

In connection with the New Orleans work, two important field expe-
ditions were made by Mr. W.S. Yeates. In his first trip, he visited the
mineral region of Northern New York, and secured valuable material at
Antwerp and Gouverneur. The suite of minerals from the Sterling iron
mine at Antwerp is exceptionally fine and complete. To the liberality
of Mr. E. B. Bulkley, president of the Jefferson Iron Company at Ant-
werp, the Museum is indebted for nearly all of these specimens, a few
having been secured from other parties by exchange. The millerites,
siderites and chalcodites of this series are especially good, several
handsome specimens of white siderite being included. Interest in the
growth of the Museum was exhibited, in a practical way, by Mr. W. H.
Andrews of Gouverneur, who generously contributed quite a number
of specimens from his private collection, including not only the min-
erals from St. Lawrence County, but also some from various other

localities. Exceptionally good crystals of selenite from Grand Rapids,

Mich., a specimen of whitneyite from Lake Superior, a specimen of
crystallized white tourmaline from De Kalb, N. Y., a number of good
erystals of black tourmaline from Pierrepont, N. Y. and a very large
crystal of brown tourmaline, with perfect faces, from Gouverneur, were
among the most important contributions made by Mr. Andrews. The
Museum is also under obligations to Messrs. John D. Swan and RB. S.
Hodge, of Antwerp, and Messrs. John Webb, F. Lavack and O. P.
Fuller, of Gouverneur.

Tu his second trip, Mr. Yeates visited the Hot Springs of Arkansas,
where he obtained good series of quartz crystals, wavellites, variscites,
brookites, rutiles &c. During this trip, he also went to Mine La Motte,
in Missouri, securing a quantity of linneite, some exceptionally fine
marcasite, and other good material. Thanks are due to Messrs. J. W.
Neill, J. D. Sanders and B. Colman, and to Mrs. A. J. Beardsley, for
most of the specimens collected at Mine La Motte. Both expeditions
were so successful as to justify me in urging that the practice of field
collection should be systematically encouraged, and that each year col-

REPORT OF LEPARTMENT OF MINERALOGY. 220

lectors should be sent out to visit mineral localities. The expense of
such work is trifling in comparison with the results to be attained.

In connection with my work in the Geological Survey I myself made
two expeditions into the field—first, to the tourmaline region of Western
Maine, and, second, to the feldspar quarries near Middletown, Conn.;
and both trips yielded good material for the Museum. Assistant Chem-
ist T. M. Chatard also went twice to the corundum fields of North Caro-
lina and brought back good collections. Part of the latter have already
been turned over to the Museum and part have been reserved for lab-
oratory investigations. Minerals have also been received from other
Geological Survey parties, and notably from Messrs. J. B. Marcon, C.
D. Walcott, and J. 8. Curtis. Mr. Mareou, in particular, obtained for
the Museum a large number of specimens of the vivianite from Mullica
Hill, N. J.; and Mr. Whitman Cross sent in a collection of the zeolites
from Table Mountain, Colorado, and the cryolite minerals found near
Pike’s Peak.

Early in the year our exchange system began to bear fruit, and the
following are among the more noteworthy accessions derived from this
source: From N. H. Perry, of South Paris, Me., we received a collection
of the lepidolites, tourmalines, &e., of Auburn, Me., the topaz and as-
sociated minerals of Stoneham, Me., the cancrinite and sodalite from
Litchfield, Me., and other material from the same region; from E. M.
Bailey. Andover, Me., a collection of the lepidolite, &c., from the new
locality on Black Mountain, in Rumford, Me.; from Prof. W. N. Rice, of
Wesleyan University, a fine series of the minerals found in the feldspar
quarries near Middletown, Conn.; from G. F. Kunz, a very full set of
the rarer titanium minerals of Magnet Cove, Ark.; from J. Siemachko,
St. Petersburg, a number of rare Russian minerals; and from Ward &
Howell, of Rochester, N. Y., a number of valuable specimens, repre-
senting various localities, among them a good specimen of Japanese
stibuite. Still other exchanges have been arranged for, but the collec
tions have not yet been actually received.

Our meteorite collection is small as yet, but has shown some growth
during the year. From Dr. J. Berrien Lindsley, of Nashville, we have
received a fine slice of the meteoric iron from Robertson County, Ten-
nessee. We have also obtained, by exchange, cuttings of the Dalton,
Ouachita and Tazewell irons, and meteoric stones from the lowa County,
Moes and Pultusk falls. The large meteoric iron, weighing 52 kilo-
grams, recently discovered at Grand Rapids, Mich., has been, through
the kindness of Prof. J. R. Eastman, deposited in the Museum for ex-
inbition and description.

In April the work of installing the mineral collection was begun in
the west-south range, but was soon interrupted by the labors involved
in preparation for the New Orleans Exposition. The Willcox collection,
however, has been arranged and labeled, and 1,655 specimens of the
Museum collection proper are now on view. The plan of arrangement
224 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884.

may be briefly stated as follows: A specimen, when received and cxta-
logued, is assigned to either the exhibition or study series or placed
among the duplicates. The latter are kept in drawers in the work-room
on the third floor of the southwest pavilion, and need no further men-
tion here. The exhibition series is displayed in sloping-top cases of
three shelves each, and these are placed upon cases of drawers contain-
ing the study series. The classification is essentially according to
Dana’s system, slightly modified ; and the purpose is to have the same
case, above and below, contain the same group of minerals. For ex-
ample, our finest micas or calcites would be shown in the exhibition
series, while immediately below them, in unit case drawers, would
be as wide a range of the same species as possible for exhaustive
monographic study. Under this policy the bulk of our collection, hav-
ing scientific interest mainly, will not be exposed to public view; while
every effort will be made to have every mineral represented by all known
varieties and from many localities, in order that whoever visits the
Museum for mineralogical research may find the broadest opportunities.
Full educational series will, however, be publicly displayed, together
with all such specimens as are popularly attractive by consequence of
their size or beauty. Very large specimens, of course, are shown on
pedestals or in independent cases. At the date of writing, as nearly as
may be estimated, the collection numbers 15,288 specimens, distributed
as follows :—

Onjexhibition:in/the,;Musenm: -2..345 7b osescGet® ee occ ee Beale 1, 655
OntexhibitionsiniNe w. Orleans oye ane ae ao oe ere wie ose ce cece cea ener oe "500

PE Obata SP as (Rae ST Ie Oe 8 ge ee *2° 155
M"POSETVO:SELICS -.. coo cc e focce Oo eres ee cae ce eae Meee coe Rete ee Tee SCH
Duplicatess fs. 2 ei as So ee eh Sa a tncoees eee ne dernaee eee eae 5, 883

The exact numbers cannot be absolutely given, for many of the
specimens now on exhibition at New Orleans were received too late for
full cataloguing and entry. As the work of installing the collection
goes on, the distribution of specimens in the several series may be ma-
terially changed. In addition to cataloguing many minerals belonging
to the old collection, accessions amounting to 3,145 specimens were en-
tered upon the register during the year.

When I assumed thie care of this department in December, 1883, the
chemical laboratory of the Museum was also placed in my charge. In
that laboratory I have conducted, with the aid of Messrs. T. M. Cha-
tard, F. A. Gooch and Edward Whitfield, the chemical work of the
U. 8. Geological Survey, and whatever reseerches have been prose-
cuted upon the mineral material have been carried forward in that
connection. Jointly with Dr. Chatard, I published a paper in the
American Journal of Science for July, entitled ‘‘ Mineralogical Notes
from the Laboratory of the U. 8. Geological Survey,” which notes, to-
gether with many water, rock and ore analyses, have also appeared

=

* Approximate.

oe

a ee

re Ae ee ee oe ee ee ee ee Ve, ee eee

REPORT OF DEPARTMENT OF MINERALOGY. 225

in Survey Bulletin No. 9. In these notes I have described a number
of interesting minerals from various new localities, partly representing
Museum material and partly the field collections of the Survey. The
most notable item in the series, perhaps, is the account of pectolite from
Alaska, which s0 closely simulates jade as to have been mistaken for
the latter mineral. The laboratory is now reorganized in the northeast
pavilion, where, with eight associates and laborers, I supervise the
chemical and physical work of the Survey.

In conclusion I must express my indebtedness to my colleague, Mr.
W. 8S. Yeates, upon whom has fallen most of the severer labor of
arranging and classifying the mineral collection. Ensigns O. G. Dodge,
Ernest Wilkinson and H. 8. Knapp, of the U. 8. Navy, have also ren-
dered valuable assistance, and so, too, has Mr. J. H. Brown. Each of
these gentlemen deserves much greater credit than can be fairly given
in these necessarily brief lines.

S. Mis. 33, pt. 2——15
XV.—DEPARTMENT OF LITHOLOGY AND PHYSICAL GEOLOGY.

By GEORGE P. MERRILL, Acting Curator.

The total number of entries upon the department catalogue during
the year has been 2,541, comprising not less than 3,000 specimens of
various kinds. The more important of these accessions are given in
the following list :

Abbott, E. I. 10 specimens fulgurites from Union Grove, Ill.

Abert Collection. 24 specimens rocks from various sources.

Ackermann, A. A., U. S. N. 117 specimens rocks from Greenland.

Alexander, W. D. Sample of “ barking sand” from Hawaiian Islands.

American Institute of Mining Engineers. 1 large geological map of
Sweden and 84 specimens rocks.

Army Medical Museum. 8 specimens rocks.

Batchen, J. S. F. 103 specimens building stone from various States,
and 5 specimens rocks.

Bartlett, Commander J. R. Specimens pumice and volcanic ash from
Krakatoa.

Berendt, Dr. G. Samples of * barking sand” from sea-shore near Col-
berg, Germany.

Beauchamp, W. M. 1 concretion.

| Bissel, John G. Supposed meteoric dust from near Rome, N. Y.

7 Bowker, Torrey & Co., Boston. 6 specimens Egyptian onyx; 1 speci-
men Griotte marble.

Boston Foreign Exposition. 1-foot cube of building stone (limestone)
from the Hawaiian Islands, and 1 specimen building stone and 12
specimens rocks from Guatemala.

Brady, Gilbert. 1 dressed cube building stone (sandstone) from A1-
bion, N. Y.

Branford, J. C. 3 sun-baked bricks from the Great Wall of China.

Burlington Manufacturing Company. 1 specimen ophite marble.

Calera Lime Works. 1 specimen building stone (limestone).

Centennial Commissioners 1876. 8 specimens building stone from the
Azores Islands, and 15 specimens rocks from the Argentine Re-
public.

Centennial Commissioners 1876 (Carl Petterson). 14 specimens rocks
from Norway.

f
:
:

227
228 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884.

Chandler, T. P., jr. 4 photographs and heliotypes of stone buildings.

Chatard, T. M. 100 pounds dunite from Corundum Hill, Macon County,
North Carolina; also 3 specimens garnet rock from Macon County,
North Carolina.

@larke, Prof. F. W. Concretions, and 2 specimens glaciated musco-
vite and lepidolite.

Yollard, E. 1 speciinen rock grooved by glacial action, France.

Oorson, R. R. 34 stalactites and stalagmites from Luray Caves, Virginia.

Crosby, Prof. W. O. 13 specimens rocks, in exchange for other mate-
rial.

Diller, J. S. 150 specimens, andesites from Mount Shasta, California.

Dimond, John. 1 specimen California onyx.

Esperanza Marble Company (through George F. Breed, agent). 5 cubes —
and 1 large slab colored marbles from Vermont.

Evans, R. 2 specimens rock from Virginia.

Fontaine, Prof. William M. 3 specimens unakite and 2 specimens dia-
base from Madison County, Virginia.

Foster, J. HE. G N. A. 1 specimen of rock.

Goode, G. Brown. 14 stalactites from Bermuda.

Gouldsburg & Son, New York. 1 specimen Tennessee marble.

Gouverneur Marble Company (through W. S. Yeates). 1 large block of ©
marble with glacial markings.

Griffin, Miss M. E. Specimens of mica from Amelia County, Virginia.

Grifin, L. J. 1 specimen stalagmite marble from near Berryvale,
Cal.

Grampner, R. F. 1 specimen of slate from Kansas.

Hall, C. J. 1 specimen building stone (red hornblende granite) from
Mount Desert, Me.

Hall, Charles E., @ Co. 3 specimens California onyx.

Hatch, J. C. 3 specimens albite from Auburn, Me.

Hawaiian Government. 13 specimens rocks.

Hawes, Dr. George W. (estate of). 693 specimens foreign and native
rocks.

Holden, George H. 1 specimen zinc ore and 11 specimens serpentine
from Deer Isle, Maine.

Hoosier Stone Company. 1 specimen building stone (oolitic limestone)
from Bedford, Ind.

Hopkinson, J. Hemlock board driven by a hurricane through a white-
oak tree 5 inches in diameter from Wesson, Miss.

Horn, Dr. G. H. 3 stalactites.

Houghton, F. W. Specimens pumice and volcanic ash from Krakatoa.

Jackson, Charles. 1 specimen of kaolin from Rockingham County Vir-
ginia.

Jansen, D. C. Fossil-bearing limestones from China.

Jones, Conner G Co. 1 small specimen of lithographic limestone. :

Kempton, C. W. 1 specimen serpentine from Newbury, Mass. |

kT ae ae

REPORT OF DEPARTMENT OF PHYSICAL GEOLOGY. 223

Knapp, EB. B. 10 specimens rocks from Skaneateles, N. Y., in exchange.

Landgraff, Herr. Pumice sand from Norway.

Leslie & Corse. 1 specimen of building stone.

Marshall, Lieut. W. A., U. S..N. Volcanic ashes from the Indian Ocean
(Krakatoa).

McBride, Prof. T. H. 3 specimens fossil coral from Towa.

McDonald, Col. M. M. 2 specimens marble from Virginia.

McKinley, C. M. 2 specimens rocks.

McLean, John J. 1 specimen pumice and of rock showing work of bor-
ing mollusks, from Cape Mendocino, California.

Merrill, W. J. 6 specimens limonite from Katahdin Iron Works, Maine.

Merrill, George. P. 1,000 pounds rocks of various kinds fron New
Jersey, Massachusetts, and Maine.

Mitchell, J. E. 13 specimens grindstones in the form of a column.

Mooney, B. 1 cube of dolomite 4 by 4 by 4inches; a portion of the cay
stone of the Washington Monument.

Muzzey, A. P. 1 specimen diabase from Star Prairie, Mich.

Norris, W. P. 1 large geyser cone from the Yellowstone National
Park.

North Carolina, State of (through W. S. Yeates). Collection of building
stones and rocks.

Purchased. 707 specimens rocks and minerals from various sources.

Parker, H. W. 1 large slab of Triassic sandstone, with fossil foot- prints,
from Saint Vrain Creek, Colorado.

Perry, N. H. 1 specimen small trap dike in granite.

Pendleton, P. 1 specimen building stone (sandstone) from West Vir
ginia.

Pirz, Arnold. 2 large stalagmites, Carniola, Austria.

Powell, R. J. 1 specimen building stone and one diamond-drill core.

Pratt, W. S. 20 specimens flint from England.

Proctor, J. R. 70 specimens building stones from Kentucky.

Robinson, J. B. 1 specimen building stone.

Robinson, Prof. T. 30 bags soil and rocks from East shaft, water- works
extension, Washington, D. C.

Royal University of Norway. 7 specimens rocks from Sweden.

Rusby, H. H. Calcareous incrustations.

Seeva, George. 10 specimens rocks showing the work of boring mot
lusks, Santa Barbara, Cal.

Shepard, James. Photograph of a bowlder at East Lyme, Conn.

Shriver, Howard. Collection of rocks. .

Silver, A. L. 2 stalactites; 1 specimen of rock.

Smith, I. C., Washington, D. C. 1 phosphatic concretion (calculus) frou.
the District of Columbia.

Smith, Frank S. 1 specimen of building stone.

Stonaker, C. L. 1 specimen rock from California.
230 . REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884.

Stoney, Lieut. George. M., U. S. N. Collection of rocks and voleanie
ashes from the new volcano on Bogosloff Island.

Stearns, Silas. 2 fulgurites from Santa Rosa Island, Florida.

Tilghman, Messrs. B. C. & R. A., Philadelphia, Pa. 400 pounds assorted
sizes chilled iron globules for stone sawing and grinding.

True, F. W. 1 specimen jade from New Zealand.

Turner, LE. Y. Specimens beryl from Edgecomb, Me.

Townsend, C. H. 1 specimen stalagmite marble from Baird, Cal.

Tweedale, W. 2 specimens building stone.

U. S. Geological Survey (Messrs. Gilbert and Russell). 400 specimens
rocks and tufas from Western States and Territories.

U. 8. Geological Survey (Prof. Lester F. Ward). 26 specimens rocks
and fossil woods trom Montana.

U. S. Geological Survey (Cooper Curtice). 1 specimen rock.

U.S. Geological Survey (L. C. Johnson). 12 specimens rocks and build-
ing stones.

U.S. Signal Service. 11 specimens rock from Alaska.

U.S. Light-House Board. Plate of window-glass abraded by sand.

U.S. Geological Survey (S. F. Emmons). 16 specimens rocks from Col-
orado.

U.S. Geological Survey (W J McGee). 4 specimens silicified wood from
the District of Columbia.

U. S. Fish Commission. 1 specimen of building stone from Wood’s
Holl, Mass.

Watts, J. J. Calcareous incrustations from Arizona.

Wharton, J. 1 specimen of pumice from Krakatoa.

Wheeler, Lieut. George M. 1 specimen rock.

Williams, Dr. George H. 10 specimens foreign rocks, in exchange for
other material.

Williams, Dr. George H. 6 specimens rocks from near Baltimore.

Woesffel, C. F. 1 paper-weight composed of varieties of ornamental
stones from Russia.

Of the list above given there are several worthy of a special notice. |

Prominent among these is the series of rocks and tufas from Utah,
Nevada, and California received from Mr. I, C. Russell, of the U.S.
Geological Survey. The tufas and lavas are particularly interesting
and unique for exhibition material, and form a most valuable addition
to our exhibition series. The numerous specimens of volcanic ashes
and pumice received from Messrs. Wharton, Houghton, Bartlett, and
Marshall are also of great value, not merely from a lithologic stand-
point, but as conveying some idea of the character of the material
ejected from the volcano of Krakatoa and the immense distances to
which it was carried by wind and ocean currents.

The fulgurites received from Messrs. Abbott and Stearns are of in-
terest as showing the great heat imparted to the sand by the passage
through it of an electric discharge. Both these gentlemen added very

REPORT OF DEPARTMENT OF PHYSICAL GEOLOGY. 201

materially to the value of their collections by accompanying them with
full and explicit notes regarding the locality and occurrence of the
specimens found. The collection of rocks and volcanic sand from the
new volcano of Bogosloff Island, received from Lieut. G. M. Stoney, is
also of very great interest, as showing the character of the ejected ma-
terial from this recent voleano. This collection will probably furnish
material for a special report.

Two collections of lithological interest, and of importance from their
furnishing material not only for the Museum collections but also for
exchanges, have been received. The first is a fine collection of one hun-
dred and fifty specimens of andesite and pumice from Mount Shasta, Cali-
fornia, collected and donated by Mr. J. S. Diller, of the U. S. Geological
Survey. The fact that Mr. Diller is himself at present engaged in the
study of these rocks and their mode of occurrence, renders the collection
especially valuable. The second collection is one of some hundred
pounds of dunite from Macon County, North Carolina, the gift of T. M.
Chatard, also of the Survey.

Of the collections of more strictly economic importance should be men-
tioned one of upwards of one hundred specimens of building stones from
various sources, received from Mr. J. S. F. Batchen, of Chicago, Ill.
Mr. Batchen, from his intimate knowledge of the subject, is enabled to
obtain nuch material of this nature that would otherwise be inaccessible
to the department, and particularly is this the case in regard to the West-
ern States and Territories. A recent donation of Mr. Batchen’s from
Mexico is of peculiar interest, the rocks being rhyolites or rhyolitic
tuffs, a class of material entirely unknown in the Eastern United States,
and, with the exception of a very few instances, but little used at pres-
ent for building purposes. The Esperanza Marble Company, through
its agent, Mr. George F. Breed, has presented a fine series of dark mar-
bles from the company’s quarries in Vermont, and Mr. L. J. Griffin has
presented, through Mr. J. 8. Diller, a specimen of the beautiful green
stalagmite marble from his quarries near Berryvale, California. To
Mr. J. R. Procter, the director of the State survey, the Museum is in-
debted for a complete series, comprising seventy-seven specimens, of
the building stones of Kentucky, a State which heretofore was but poorly
represented in our collections. The beautiful specimen of Egyptian onyx
marble received from Bowker, Torrey & Co., of Boston, as well as the
Californian marbles of like character from Messrs. J. Dimond, New
York, and Charles E. Hall & Co., of Boston, make an important addition
to our exhibition series, and ought to be noticed here also. Prof. Thomas
Robinson, of Howard University, has rendered the departinent great
service by collecting a full series of samples of the various strata passed
through in the digging of the East shaft of the water-works extension
in this city. In addition to the collecting of the samples, Professor
Robinson also made full notes on the position and character of the
se REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884.

strata, which will be of great use in preparing the collection for exhi-
bition.

The collections of the department, as at present arranged, are broadly
generalized under the heads of lithology—including the building and
ornamental stones—and physical geology.

Lithological collection—The lithological collection proper comprises
all varieties of rocks of scientific or educational value, without regard
to their economic importance. Rocks belonging to this series are, for
convenience sake both in handling and storing, broken into blocks
about 4 by 3 by 1 inches, with the edges carefully trimmed and the
faces showing fresh fractures, with no abrasion marks from the ham-
mer. The catalogue number is then painted on each, and they are
stored in the drawers of the table-cases for purpose of reference and
study, or placed upon exhibition, as the case may be. Each speci-
men thus prepared is accompanied with a written or printed label giv-
ing what information is known in regard to the same or referring to
sources from which other information can be obtained. In arranging
the rocks of this series, either for exhibition or for reference and study,
collections illustrating the formations of any definite area, or investiga-
tions tending toward the solution of any particular problem, are pre-
served intact, while miscellaneous collections are broken up, classified
by kind, and distributed throughout the general collections of the de-
partment.

The exhibition series of this collection comprises now some £00 speci-
mens, but this number can. easily be doubled as soon as proper cases
are prepared. As a supplement to this collection, to explain their
structure and mineral composition, a series of enlarged photomicrographs
of twelve thin sections of typical rocks have been prepared. These en-
largements are in the form of transparencies, 12 inches in diameter, and
are colored by hand, the artist taking his tints from an examination of
the sections themselves under the microscope and in polarized light.
The illustrations thus prepared are very accurate as well as attractive,
and cannot fail to add greatly to the value of the educational series of
this department.

With particular reference to educational purposes, two special col-
lections have been prepared during the past season; one a structural
series of rocks, and the other a series of rock-forming minerals. The
structural series is designed to show all the more typical forms of rock
structure ard texture; in other words, to illustrate by means of speci-
mens the meanings of certain words and phrases in constant use in
lithological nomenclature, but whose exact significance or force is poorly
comprehended by the public in general. In this collection the rocks are
divided primarily into three groups: (a) crystalline, (b), vitreous, or
glassy, and (c) clastic, or fragmental, under which are arranged all those
forms of structure common to each. The collection thus includes three
nearly parallel series, and comprises, as at present arranged, forty-one

REPORT OF DEPARTMENT OF PHYSICAL GEOLOGY. 233

specimens, each of which is accompanied by a printed label stating to
which of the three principal groups it belongs, what type of structure
it represents, and also the name of the rock specimen itself, the locality”
from whence it came, and the name of the donor or collector.

In preparing the collection of rock-forming minerals, rocks have been
regarded as simply mineral aggregates of more or less complexity of
structure and composition. The collection, therefore, includes repre-
sentative specimens of all those minerals which commonly form an ap-
preciable part of large rock masses, the rarer minerals and the gems
being excluded. Each mineral species is shown in its several varieties,
and is accompanied by a printed label giving its crystalline system,
chemical composition, and the species of rock or rocks in which it com-
monly occurs. If the mineral itself possesses any economie value, this
is also stated. This collection at present comprises 150 specimens, rep-
resenting in their different varieties 46 mineral species.

The building-stone collection comprises only such material as is used
in the rough or finished state for some form of building or ornamental
work. All the stones of this collection are designed for exhibition, and
for this purpose are cut into 4-inch cubes and finished in the following
manner: Polished or fine-sanded in front; drafted and pointed on the
left side; drafted rock face upon the right side; rock face behind, and
smooth sanded or chiseled upon the top and bottom. Each block, when
finished, has its catalogue number painted upon it, and is put on exhibi-
tion, accompanied by a printed label giving the scientific name of the
stone, its geological age, color, texture, &c., together with the location
from which it was taken, the names of the quarry-owners or lessees,
and that of the donor or collector; the purpose being to so arrange and
label the entire collection that all interested can, within the space of a
few hours, see and examine for themselves all the varieties of building
stone quarried in the United States, together with very many from for-
eign localities.

As a supplement to the building-stone collection, to illustrate the
adaptability of certain kinds of stone to architectural purposes, a series
of photographic negatives of some of the more important stone build-
ings of the country has been obtained, from which enlarged prints (30
by 40 inches) have been prepared. These prints have been painted in
a manner to represent the natural color of the stone of which the build-
ings are constructed. The series comprises ten photographs of buildings
constructed of the following materials: One each of granite, gneiss,
limestone, marble, and serpentine, and five of sandstone, or sandstone
in connection with brick.

Physical geology.—The collections of the department that may be ap-
propriately grouped under the head of physical geology, that is, as of
greater interest from bearing the marks of physical agencies than from
their lithological characters, are at present comparatively limited. The
more important of these are the collection of lavas from Ice Springs
234 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 18384.

Butte, Utah, to which reference has already been made; two specimens
of glacial polished mica, received from Prof. F. W. Clarke; one large
.block glacial polished marble, gift of the Gouverneur Marble Company;
a plate of sand-eroded glass, of especial interest as showing the remark-
able eroding power of sand when blown by the wind, and sundry slabs
of sandstone with ripple-marks and sun-cracks upon their surfaces.
There is also an interesting series of models, which may be referred to
here, including the Grand Canton of the Colorado; the Yellowstone
National Park; the Elk Mountains, Colorado; the Gulf of Mexico; the
Grand Banks of Newfoundland, and Mount Vesuvius, Italy. Owing to
the large size of the material that would be requisite for a display,
phenomena of this class must necessarily be shown to a great extent by
photographs, or illustrations of some sort, and models.

Routine work of the year.—Since the middle of July my entire time has
been devoted to the preparation of exhibits for the New Orleans Expo-
sition. To aid in this work a force of three stone-cutters, one stone-
polisher, one laborer, and two clerks was employed for periods varying
from six weeks to six months. During this time there were prepared
and shipped to New Orleans the following collections: A type collection
of the building and ornamental stones of the United States, comprising
3058 specimens; an educational series of rocks in the form of hand speci-
mens, 3 by 4 by 1 inches, comprising 500 specimens; and the structural
series of rocks and collection of rock-forming minerals already referred
to. ‘There was also obtained for this purpose, from the U.S. Geological
Survey, a series of 198 specimens of rocks illustrating the geology of
the Comstock Lode and Washoe district, Nevada.

Other work of the year which may be mentioned here was the prep-
aration of 1,557 labels for the exhibition series and 1,174 cards for the
card catalogue. There have also been prepared some 200 thin sections
of rocks, making the entire number of these now in the collection some
3,200. Prior to May 31 I was assisted in this and other clerical work
by Mr. John H. Fillmore, U.S. N., and since July 11 by Mr. L. H. Mer-
rill.

Owing to the pressure of the routine work of the Museum and the
preparation for the New Orleans Exposition but little time could be
given to original work or investigations with a view to publication.
But two, and these very brief, papers have been prepared by myself.
These are “On Prochlorite from the District of Columbia” (Proe. U.
S. N. M., 1884, p. 67), and “On Hornblende Andesites from the new
Bogosloff Voleano” (Science, December 12, 1884, p. 524). No papers
have been published on material belonging to the department by parties
not connected with the Museum,

Present condition of the collections.—The present condition of the col-
lection may be briefly stated as follows: The total number of specimens
in the reserve series is not less than 15,000, of which some 3,000 are
now on exhibition (this includes the collections sent to New Orleans);

REPORT OF DEPARTMENT OF PHYSICAL GEOLOGY. 235

4,246 of these 15,000 are building or ornamental stones, of which 1,658
are now on exhibition; 600 more are dressed and can be placed on exhi-
bition as soon as space and cases are provided. The number of speci-
mens in the duplicate series cannot be accurately estimated, but will
probably not vary far from 3,000, making a total of 18,000 specimens for
the whole collection.

The following list gives the collection of building and ornamental
stones in detail, the majority of the specimens being of sufficient size
to dress into 4-inch cubes, or at least to give a finished surface 4 inches
square:

UNITED STATES. | Onegon! 23. ue cee 22. 6. ae eee 6
Ponrsylyaniay $28 ~stacanre2 a8 - See 331

Alabams ---.-.------.------------ EY Rhode Yalipal, 200 <3 <oee eee 42
Arkansas...-...------------------ 9 | Penneaed ie ee 127
OR Lies I ee eee eecceer ON asar on eee eee 48
Ee eee aes AG | pear tet iri) Oh labia: RO 13
Colorado ..-..-----+---++--++----- OA Sravinend £ ores ee ewe cal nee 220
SMBOLIOW ie So - sc cs cee a=2- +2 109 | Narginty 7, =. ee 72
Dakota ...---.----------+---+---- 5 | West MEI ih 6 ss oo oe oe 17
Delaware .....------------------- 5 Washington Territory ........---.
District of Columbia....-.-....-... Semen dais i lee tyoe | apna os x9
OST ES oe eee seers ceee 15 Wyoming PME SAIS Ae ee 6
VE ee ee 7 f
Idaho ...-....-------------------- 2 FOREIGN COUNTRIES.
SEE bak I a Rie a lil
OLDEN TR Ty eg eee Mo WABeMMMUCS 2242 ee acs kce soe estos ena 15
ruemerrete 8 oe Rohe sen 195 Canadas) ale he eee ee 17
DCR: be eee a 192) LO BIMOio352 «8c 2k te Od h 1
3G ee DSA DOW aa w'ains sates Bie see toe Eoe 10
UE ee a eee eee Pete Rane: s . Sess. oceee oa cp tases 4
BEPOSMCHHBCLUG 6.02. Stee ce cee cons “2 SylGLE She 1, gpa SE A PS 4
MEMES oso G ws oe a eee ee NOOR GLCECOI) . cae we eee cte nt = Se stoces = 2
Paani rEENihes 3-1) SLOSS End. ona en DUM nelandl...tseU ee de nas eases eee 1
ODED 0 ee ae er ree OGG Dts lyicis oso ote = ances ate ae omen 89
URS aE See ee a ee. ee Lae MMI AD AB buen 4s<jnp- stk 2 Saas 50
TIL LETITES de (eee ae ee at OPMIMGXIC0. .c< scclas2.ct oes oe eee 16
US) Re ae eS ee ee & |New Brimewick .-_:.2....-c-caeee 5
mew mMampabire 2.2.5.2 555 s055% 106") New South Wales’ .2. -.5-222222-. 20
MENVMUDISOUI S552. <cacecsen cass css - ise. | (Porvdgal's: +. ¢/-.. 22a. eveeeeeees 154
BEET MLOR TOO 8G Odie oy se cod weed AY | Russia’. a6 228 hese does 21
MN rte a oh i a, 974A. | «Scotland .2.32t22¢~.-eseeeeeee ee eee 24
(TG eal Sie ty Sai ai ey a eae 8 | Tork6y ~~ <-\ossct oS cee ee en 2
Metin @arglitin .-2...-..-----<---- 125 | =.
(oni) chee Rat an eel BE 314 | TOtAl S20. See eee ee 4: 246

Of the collections now on exhibition the following may be noted as
of especial interest :

Fourteen hundred specimens of building and ornamental stones of
the United States. These are nearly all in the form of 4-inch cubes,
prepared as already described. <A part are, however, in foot cubes, and
a few others of still larger size.
236 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884.

One hundred and twenty-six specimens building and ornamental
stones of Portugal and the Azores Islands, mostly in the form of 4 and
8-inch cubes.

Thirty-three large cubes of Italian marbles, a beautiful and very com-
plete collection, made under the direction of Hon. William T. Rice, U.
S. consul at Leghorn, Italy. Also a similar collection of 45 specimens in
the form of slabs 4 inches square by one-half inch thick, the gift of W.
W. Story.

A collection of 30 specimens of marbles and serpentines of Japan.
Gift of the Japanese Centennial commissioners.

A series of 19 blocks of marble, each 1 foot square, illustrating the
different styles of finish usually applied to these stones. Gift of the
Vermont Marble Company.

A similar collection of 8 blocks of sandstone. Gift of the McDermot
and Berea Sandstone Company,

A similar collection of 8 blocks of Quincy granite, the gift of H. Bar-
ker & Sons.

One large slab (20 by 34 inches) of Potomac breccia marble. Gift of
Col. Edward Clark.

One large slab (40 by 56 inches) of quartzite from Luserna, Italy. Gift
of the Italian Centennial commissioners.

A series of upwards of 100 specimens of siliceous and calcareous sin-
ters from the Yellowstone National Park. Collected by Dr. A. C. Peale.

A series of 90 specimens lava from Ice Springs Butte, Utah. Received
from I. C. Russell, U. 8S. Geological Survey.

A series of 25 specimens tufas from Lake Lahontan and Pyramid
Lake, Nevada. Received from I. C. Russell, U. 8. Geological Survey.

A series of 7 large specimens obsidian and obsidian pumice from the
Mono Craters, California. Received from I. C. Russell, U. 8S. Geolog-
ical Survey.

A series of 152 hand specimens rocks of Yellowstone National Park.
Gift of W. H. Holmes.

A series of 92 specimens rock of Saxony. Received from the Royal
Mining School of Freiburg, Saxony.

A series of 12 specimens “onyx” marbles from various localities, in-
cluding Californa, Mexico, and Egypt.

A collection of 70 specimens of stalactites and stalagmites from the
Luray Caves, Virginia, Carniola, Austria, and other localities. This
collection is particularly interesting on account of the size and beauty of
the specimens. The department is indebted to Mr. Robert Corson for
the magnificent series of specimens from Luray.

A series of 150 concretions of various kinds and from many sources. Of
especial interest in this collection are four large specimens, the largest
2 feet in diameter, from Cannon Ball River, Dakota, the gift of Gen-
eral M. C. Meigs.

A series of 84 hand specimens of rocks and a geological map of Swe-

eS eee ee ee |. ee a
REPORT OF DEPARTMENT OF PHYSICAL GEOLOGY. 231

den. Gift of Swedish Centennial commissioners and American Insti-
tute of Mining Engineers.

One large slab (7 feet 5 inches by 3 feet 8 inches) of granite. Gift of
New England Granite Company, Westerly, R. I.

One large slab (4 by 8 feet) of sandstone. Gift of Forest City Stone
Company, Euclid, Ohio. e

One large block (5 by 5 by 1 feet) of syenite from Hot Springs, Ark.
Gift of J. 8. F. Batchen.

Among the collections of the reserve series, but which are not now
on exhibition, should be mentioned a series of 854 hand specimens of
rocks from the various geological horizons of Canada, New Brunswick,
and Nova Scotia, received from the Centennial Exhibition at Philadel-
phia, 1876; a series of 355 hand specimens illustrating the geology
and lithology of Victoria, Australia ; a series of 150 specimens illus-
trating the geology and lithology of New Hampshire, as described by
Dr. George W. Hawes in the third volume of Geology of New Hamp-
shire; and lastly the Rosenbusch collection, already noted. This collee-
tion comprises 587 specimens representing all the more important rocks
which have been studied and described by Professor Rosenbusch, of
Heidelberg. It is, therefore, of great value for reference purposes, and
may be regarded as the most important accession of the year.

The history of the geological department of the Museum may be said
to date from the appointment of Dr. George W. Hawes as curator, in
1880. Prior to this time the collections were small and very miseella-
neous in their character, the only material of real value, from a geologic
or lithologic standpoint which they were found to contain, being a col-
lection of 300 specimens of rocks from France, received from Louis Sae-
mann in 1869, and a similar collection of 148 specimens of rocks of Sax-
ony, received from the Royal Mining School of Freiberg in-1863. There
was, it is true, much material that might have been of value had there
been any accurate data concerning it, but so poorly had the records
been kept that in many cases absolutely nothing could be learned in re-
gard to the collections, or if anything, the information was so meagre as
to be useless.

' At the time Dr. Hawes entered upon his duties as curator, he also
took charge of that branch of the Tenth Census relating to the quar-
rying industry of the United States. To this work he gave almost his
entire attention, and the present building-stone collection is the result
of his exertions in this direction. Dr. Hawes’s connection with the
Museum was, however, too short to allow the department to become
fully organized, and at the time of his death matters were, if possible,
in a state of greater confusion than before, owing to the large amount
of material that had accumulated, and the extent of the work under-
taken but necessarily uncompleted. The great amount of material re-
ceived from the Centennial Exhibition at Philadelphia in 1876 was still
unassorted, as was also that received from the various United States
238 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884.

Geological Surveys that existed prior to the present organization. The
records of a great deal of the latter material were in a deplorable con-
dition, and the specimens themselves had in many cases been so abused
as to be completely worthless.

To the Centennial Exhibition, the Tenth Census, and the various Geo.
logical Surveys the department is largely indebted for whatever ma-
terial it possessed prior to 1882. The time since the reorganization
of the department and its assignment to myself has been too short for
anything more than a beginning to be made. What work has actu-
ally been accomplished has already been noted.

The imperative need of the department is a larger permanent work-
ing force. The confusion which was found to exist among the old col-
lections is due entirely to the fact that sufficient time and care were not
given to the preservation of the identity of the material. It is not
enough that the curator knows, however thoroughly, the collection
under his care, but the facts in regard to each and every specimen
should be so placed on record that its identity can never again be lost,
however often the administrative force of the department may be
changed. There is probably no department of the Museum in which
the value of material depends more upon its correct identification and
localization. The most valuable material of the collection to-day may
to-morrow become totally worthless from no other cause than an uncer-
tainty arising as to the exact source from which it was obtained.

The very considerable amount of petrographical work being at the
present time carried on in this country renders it extremely important
that somewhere should be preserved a representative series of the more
important rocks described, either the types themselves or exact du-
plicates of the same. The value of such a collection, both for present
and future reference, cannot be overestimated, especially when we con-
sider the prevailing unsatisfactory system of rock classification and no-
menclature. While each worker, it is true, now makes collections for
his own use, these are necessarily limited and so widely scattered as
to be practically inaccessible to the majority of workers. A very
small outlay yearly will allow the gathering together of representative
specimens of the greater proportion of this material in the National Mu-
seum, where it will be accessible for reference and study to all responsi-
ble parties, and also be secure from destruction by fire or other agencies.
The recent destruction of the entire collection of Professor Irving by
the burning of the buildings of the university at Madison, Wis., is in
itself sufficient argument in favor of such an undertaking.

XVI.—DEPARTMENT OF METALLURGY AND ECONOMIC GEOLOGY.

“By FREDERIC P. DEWEY, Curator.

REPORT OF THE CURATOR.

During the first part of the year the still unorganized material re-
ceived from Centennial sources occupied a great deal of attention. Be-
sides this, there have been a great many accessions received that are
worthy of special mention, and these may be divided into four classes:
Those received in the ordinary way; those received from the Perma-
nent Exhibition at Philadelphia; those received from the Boston Exhi-
bition; and the material collected in connection with the New Orleans
Exposition. The material received in the ordinary way embraces a
very fine collection from the works of the Colorado Coal and Iron Com-
pany, at South Pueblo, Colo., representing very fully the process of
manufacture of steel rails, nails, &c., at these works. This collection
was made and presented by C. L. Stonaker, of South Pueblo, Colo.

A collection of the iron ores of California, and also a very valuable
collection of copper and other ores from the Lake Superior region, pre-
sented by R. E. C. Stearns, U. 8S. National Museum. The latter collec-
tion is very valuable from a historical standpoint.

A collection representing the extraction of copper from Canadian
pyrite after the sulphur has been utilized for the manufacture of sul-
phuric acid. Presented by the Orford Copper and Sulphur Company.

A small but valuable collection representing the work of the hy-
draulic process for the extraction of gold from gravel deposits from the
Brewer mine, South Carolina. Presented by E. Motz.

A collection of about 600 specimens representing the process of
manufacture of bolts, nuts, and washers by machinery, together with
the various commercial sizes of these articles; also a very interesting
collection representing the manufacture of busheled or refined iron from
scrap material. Presented by J. H. Sternbergh, Reading. Pa.

By far the most interesting and valuable single collection received
during the year is the extensive collection of iron ores collected by the
Tenth Census, under the direction of Prof. R. Pumpelly. This col-
lection represents the occurrence of iron ore at every mine of any im-
portance that was worked during the census year. Carefully selected

; 239
240 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884.

samples were also taken for analysis, and the powdered material for —
this purpose accompanies the hand specimens. The whole collection
comprises over 3,600 specimens.

From the Permanent Exhibition at Philadelphia were received a very
extensive and valuable series of tests of the mechanical properties of
the Fagersta steel made by Kirkaldy, of London. This is by far the
most complete series of tests of steel ever made, and the records in
regard to the tests are full and complete, so that it is still a standard
of reference.

A collection of the various ores of Colorado.

A collection representing the mineral resources along the line of the
Little Rock and Fort Smith Railroad.

Two interesting collections representing the manufacture of horse-
shoes by machinery, giving the various styles and sizes adapted for
different uses. One presented by the Burden Iron Company, Troy,
N. Y., the other by the Rhode Island Horseshoe Company, Providence,
R. I.

A large collection of the different sizes and kinds of tacks. This col-
lection, while being very large, is not as systematic as we would like,
but the works have agreed to supply the deficiences and also to illus-
trate the process of manufacture, and when the collection is completed
it will form an interesting and attractive exhibit. Presented by the
Pennsylvania Tack Works, Norristown, Pa.

A large collection of the various naturally occurring salts of Stass-
-furt, Germany.

From the Boston Exhibition were received collections representing
the mineral resources of San Salvador, Guatemala, and Venezuela. Pre-
sented by the respective commissioners.

A collection of Ceylon graphite. Presented by Delmege, Reid & Co.

A very large and complete series of graphite crucibles. Presented
by Gerbriider Bessel, of Dresden.

In connection with the preparation for the New Orleans Exposition,
the curator has collected in person from the following localities :

A series representing the refining of Arizona pig-copper as carried
on at the works of the Ansonia Brass and Copper Works, Ansonia,
Conn.

A series representing the smelting of argentiferous lead ores at the
Horn Silver Works, Francklyn, Utah.

A series representing the chloridizing roasting of base silver ores at
the Ontario Mill, Park City, Utah.

A very large collection representing the copper and silver industry
at Butte, Mont. This collection embraces the copper and silver ores
of the region; two collections representing the chloridizing roasting of
the ores from the Lexington and Moulton mines; three collections rep-
resenting the smelting of the argentiferous copper ores from the Mon-
tana, Bell, and Parrot Works; and a collection representing the smelt-

REPORT OF DEPARTMENT OF METALLURGY. 241

ing of auriferous and argentiferous copper ores from the Colorado
Smelter.

The following collections were obtained, upon solicitation of the cu-
rator, for the New Orleans Exposition:

A collection representing the extraction of gold from the auriterous
gravel of California by the hydraulic process. Collected by Mr. W. H.
Radford.

A collection representing the extraction of gold from auriferous pyrite
from the Bobtail Mill, Black Hawk, Colo. Collected by E. M. Rogers.

A collection representing the delicate manipulation required in the
manufacture of gold leaf. Presented by Hastings & Co., of Philadelphia,
Pa.

A very large and extensive collection of the ores of Utah. Presented
in exchange by Prof. J. E. Clayton, Salt Lake City, Utah. This col-
lection is especially valuable as filling in many gaps of our permanent
collections, and also supplying some ores which are only found in Utah.

Collections representing some of the recently discoyered tin ores of
the country. From Virginia, presented by the Cash Mining Company;
from Alabama, presented by Dr. George W. Gessner; and from Dakota,
presented by Prof. George W. Maynard.

A collection representing the process of manufacture of white lead
and other lead paints. Presented by Harrison Brothers & Co., of Phil-
adelphia, Pa.

A very large and interesting collection representing the manufacture
of copper into various commercial forms, the manufacture and utiliza-
tion of brass, and the process of wire-drawing. Presented by the An-
sonia Brass and Copper Works, Ansonia, Conn.

A collection representing the smelting and refining of copper from
various sulphureted ores. Presented by Pope, Cole & Co., Baltimore,
Md.

A collection representing the refining of native copper separated from
the ores of the Mass Mine, Lake Superior. Presented by C. G. Hussey
& Co., Pittsburgh, Pa.

A collection representing the smelting of pig-iron from fossiliferous
ores at Rockwood, Tenn. Presented by the Roane Iron Company, Chat-
tanooga, Tenn.

A collection representing the smelting of pig-iron from brown ores
in Virginia. Presented by the Longdale Iron Company, Longdale, Va.

A collection representing the very interesting and intricate process of
the manufacture of crucible steel. Presented by Miller, Metcalf &
Parkin, Pittsburgh, Pa.

A very interesting collection representing various processes of iron
and steel manufacture in Sweden, together with descriptions of the proc-
esses. Presented by N. Lilienberg, New York.

A large collection of the zine ores from the Bertha mine. Presented
by Thomas Jones, Pulaski, Va.

S. Mis. 33, pt. 2—_16
242 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884.

A collection of the Mossy Creek, Tennessee, zinc ores. Presented by
T. H. Heald, Knoxville, Tenn.

A series of collections representing the mining of iron pyrite and the
manufacture of sulphuric acid therefrom. The Virginia pyrite, pre-
sented by W. H. Adams; the Massachusetts pyrite, presented by the
Davis Company, of Boston; and the manufacture of sulphuric acid,
presented by the Merrimac Chemical Company, Boston, Mass.

A very large and interesting collection of Babbitts, solders, and other
alloys, and alsoa series of the various grades of Welsh tin plates, together
with descriptions of the manufacture. Presented by Merchant & Co.,
Philadelphia, Pa.

A very interesting collection representing the growth and present
condition of the process for the manufacture of type metal. Presented
by Mackellar, Smiths & Jordan, Philadelphia, Pa.

A full collection of Babbitt and similar alloys. Presented by Paul
S. Reeves, Philadelphia, Pa.

A series of Ajax metal specimens for bearings, &c. Presented by the
Ajax Company, Philadelphia, Pa.

A very interesting collection representing the manufacture of sand
and emery paper. Presented by Baeder, Adamson & Co., Philadelphia,
Pa.

A very large and complete collection representing the occurrence of
asbestos from various countries and its manufacture into marketable
forms. Presented by the H. W. Johns Company, New York.

A collection of various polishing materials. Presented by R.J.Wad-
dell & Co., New York.

A collection of corundum, emery, and quartz of various sizes. Pre-
sented by the Union Stone Company, Boston, Mass.

A valuable collection of drawings representing the application of the
Siemens regenerative principle to various kinds of furnaces. Presented
by Richmond & Potts, Philadelphia, Pa.

A collection representing the application of the diamond drill in
boring, especially for prospecting purposes. Presented by the Penn-
sylvania Diamond Drill Company, Pottsville, Pa.

A small but interesting collection of tin ores from Maine and North
Carolina. Collected by Prof. F. W. Clarke, U. S. Geological Survey.

A complete series representing the Connellsville coking coal and its
associates, together with coke of various grades. Presented by the H.
C. Frick Coke Company, Pittsburgh, Pa.

Mr. James Temple Brown, of the Museum staff, made the following
collections :

A complete series representing the manufacture of miners’ boots.
Presented by Humphrey Brothers & Tracy, Towanda, Pa.

A complete series of the domestic sizes of anthracite coal, together
with its associates; also an extensive series of mining tools, &c. Pre-
REPORT OF DEPARTMENT OF METALLURGY. 243

sented by the Philadelphia and Reading Coal and Iron Company,
Pottsville, Pa.

A series representing the coal and its associates from the Long Val-
ley mines. Presented by the Barclay Coal Company, Barclay, Pa.

A series of coal and its associates, together with mining tools, from
the Loyal Sock mine. Presented by the State Line and Sullivan Rail-
road Company.

Four photographs of anthracite breakers. Presented by George M.
Bretz, Pottsville, Pa.

Three photographs of mine engines. Presented by Richard Sharpe,
jr., & Co., Wilkes Barre, Pa.

A series of gas coal and its associates from the Crescent mines, West
Virginia. Presented by W. R. Johnson, Crescent, W. Va.

A series of coal and its associates from the Antrim mines. Presented
by the Fall Brook Coal Company, Corning, N. Y.

A series of coal and its associates, together with mining tools, from
the Arnot mine. Presented by the Blossburgh Coal Company, Elmira,
1 a

A series of safety lamps, &c. Presented by J. W. Queen & Co., Phila-
delphia, Pa.

Quite a number of the recent graduates of some of the technical
schools were very glad to visit some of the centers of metallurgical
operations to make collections for the department upon the payment
of their expenses while so engaged. The collections acquired in this
way are among the most interesting and valuable that we have obtained,
since they were made with the definite purpose of exhibition in the
Museum, and therefore are better suited for permanent purposes. Mr.
E. B. Kirby, E. M., of Saint Louis, Mo., made collections representing
the mining of the free copper ore of the amygdaloid class at the Osceola
Mine, Lake Superior, and also the mining and milling of the conglom-
erate ore at the Delaware Mine, Lake’ Superior; a collection of showy
zinc ore specimens from Missouri; a collection representing the manu-
facture of pig-lead and white paint direct from the ore, from the Lone
Elm Works, Joplin, Mo.; and a collection representing the mining of
coal at Belleville, Ill. At Mr. Kirby’s solicitation, Captain Daniels, of
the Osceola mine, presented some interesting specimens representing the
association of the free silver and free copper in the Lake Superior dis-
trict, and Mr. J. A. Reeves, of Joplin, Mo., presented some very hand-
some crystallized specimens of blende, galena, and marcasite. Mr. HE.
L. Zukoski, E. M., of Saint Louis, Mo., collected at the Osceola Mill and
Central Mine, Lake Superior; at the Kansas City Smelting and Refining
Company’s Works, Argentine, Kans. ; at the Rich Hill Zine Furnaces,
Rich Hill, Mo.; at the Cherokee Zinc Works, Weir City, Kans. ; at the
Nova Scotia Furnace, Salem, Mo.; and at the Mount Olive and Collins-
ville coal regions, in Illinois. Messrs. Kirby and Zukoski together made
a very large collection representing the manufacture of Bessemer steel
244 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884.

and the rolling of steel rails at the South Chicago Rolling-Mill; also a
collection representing the smelting of copper slags at the Native Cop-
jer Smelting Works, Lake Superior.

Mr. J. P. Gazzam, E. M., collected at the Cheltenham Smelting and
Refining Works, near Saint Louis, Mo.; at the Glendale Zine Works,
also near Saint Louis; at the Joplin Zinc Works, Joplin, Me.; at the
Saint Genevieve Copper Works, Saint Genevieve, Mo.; at the Missouri
Furnace and the furnaces of the Saint Louis Ore and Steel Company,
near Saint Louis; at the mines and works of the Granby Mining and
Smelting Company; at the South Side Mining and Manufacturing
“Works, Galena, Kans.; at the zinc works of Robert Lanyon, Pittsburgh,
iKans.; at Mine La Motte, Missouri; at the zinc mines of Cowan & Bliss,
Frye & De Graffe, and Moore, De Graffe & Co., Lehigh, Mo.

At Mr. Gazzam’s solicitation, Page & Krause, of Saint Louis, Mo.,
presented a collection representing the manufacture of zine paint, and
also the manufactureof barytes. The Saint Louis Tripoli Company pre-
sented a collection representing the utilization of tripoli.

Messrs. Kirby and Gazzam made a very handsome collection of zinc
«ore from the mines of Spencer & McConey, Carterville, Mo., and Cowan
& Bliss, Lehigh, Mo.

The department is under great obligation to Prof. W. B. Potter, of
"Washington University, Saint Louis, Mo., for advice and assistance in
lirecting the work of these thrce young men.

Mr. J. B. McIntosh, E. M., of New York, collected at the Passaic Zine
Works, Jersey City, N. J.; at the Bellemont Forge and Crown Point
Furnace, in Northern New York; and at the smelting works of E. Bal-
bach & Son, Newark, N. J.

Mr. J. F. Kemp, E. M., of Brooklyn, collected at the Desloge and
Saint Jo Lead Works, Joplin, Mo.

Mr. H. S. Fleming, of Philadelphia, collected at the Warwick and
North Cornwall Iron Furnaces, in Pennsylvania.

Mr. D. W. Reckhart, of Salt Lake City, made some systematic collec-
tions from various mines in Utah.

Messrs. D. W. Reckhart and C. F. Pearis, E. M., collected at the
‘Germania Smelting and Refining Works, near Salt Lake City, Utah.

There was acquired by purchase a series of 87 specimens represent-
ding the occurrence of placer gold at nearly all the prominent regions of
the country. This collection is especially valuable from the fact that
many of the specimens were collected in the early days, and the date of
collection of nearly every one is known. It is the most full and com-
plete collection of its kind in the country.

There was also purchased a series of drawings of furnaces, to be used
for wall decorations.

Early in the year it was decided to administer upon the pile of boxes
and the material which had been stored away in the pigeon-holes of
the work-room of the department in the southwest court, with a view

REPORT OF DEPARTMENT OF METALLURGY. 245

to clearing out the space and making it available for exhibition pur-
poses. The force of workmen in the department being considerably
increased, this work was undertaken with as much vigor as possible
and continued until the middle of June. It was found that much of
this material had never been entered in the catalogue, and it was nee:
essary, therefore, to make 4,182 new entries, embracing 7,540 new speci-
mens. Of these the most important collections were the steel exhibits
of Park Brothers & Co., Hussey, Wells & Co., and Carnegie Brothers,
Pittsburgh, Pa.; a collection of rolled iron shapes from the Phoenix Irom
Company; a very large collection of fire-brick from many localities; a
collection of ores from Colorado; and two collections representing the
smelting of copper, one from Ducktown, Tenn., and the other from
Phenixville, Pa.

The entire collection of foreign ores was overhauled and put into
shape for exhibition. This collection embraces a very valuable series
from the Krupp Works, Essen, Germany; collections representing the
ores of Sweden, Russia, Spain (very large and complete), Portugal, Italy,
Turkey, Japan, Mexico, and the Australasian colonies. This latter col-
lection is especially valuable on account of its richness in specimens of
tin ores and their associates.

The entire collection of coals belonging to the department was ex-
amined, and it was found that many specimens had seriously decom-
posed, and were therefore of little value. Such as were yet in good
condition, and from localities difficult of access, were saved and put
upon exhibition. By the middle of April a section of this work-room
had been so far cleared that it was thrown open for exhibition purposes,
and the work was continued until the material for the New Orleans Ex-
position began to arrive, when it was necessarily suspended.

At the opening of the year very little progress had been made in the
regular installation of the collection, although many specimens were
available. In connection with the work of clearing out the work-room,
the installing of the specimens was taken up, and an attempt made at
temporary arrangement. This has so far proceeded that the very val-
uable collection of native ores is now installed in the large black-walnut
cases. A portion of the Census iron ores has also been installed, and
the steel exhibit of Park Brothers & Co., the rolled shapes from the
Phenix Works, portions of the Kirkaldy test specimens, and a por-
tion of the tack exhibit have been placed on exhibition.

A large amount of the foreign material has been displayed, but it has
not yet been systematically arranged and installed.

Nineteen letters of information and report upon specimens submitted
have been made, together with nive other reports. In the preparation
of the catalogue of the collection 10,960 entries have been made, cover-.
ing 15,271 specimens; and in the preparation of the card catalogue
9,337 cards, covering 12,363 specimens, upon which 389 determinations.
of mineral species have been made, have been written.
246 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884.

Work in the line of research has been confined to such examinations
of the material to be exhibited at New Orleans as were necessary for
the preparation of suitable descriptions and labels of the exhibits in
this department, and has necessarily been very much broken. The
plan followed was to do only the necessary work of preparing the ma-
terial for the temporary exhibit at New Orleans, and to confine such
work to that which would be suitable for use in the final examination
of the material, which must’ be delayed until its return from New
Orleans.

In this connection Mr. J, A. Allen has made, in the laboratory of this
department, seventeen quantitative analyses since the 1st of July, be-
sides a great many qualitative examinations.

The material collected for the New Orleans Exposition offers many
promising topics for research, and this work will be taken up and car-
ried forward as rapidly as possible upon the return of the material to
Washington.

The only papers published by the curator were, chapter III in the
Tenth Census Report of the Building Stone Industry, entitled “The
Chemical Examination of Building Stones,” and a biographical memoir
of the late Dr. George W. Hawes. These are noticed in the bibliograph-
ical appendix to this report.

The large amount of work that has been put upon the material of this
department during the past year has brought it under very much bet-
ter control. It has now been so far examined and administered upon
that it is much easier to tell what we have and what we have not than
it has been at any former time. In the reserve series have been placed
1,345 specimens, besides which there is yet included in this series a con-
siderable amount of material not yet administered upon. Nine thousand
five hundred specimens have been placed on exhibition and 1,353 speci-
mens assigned tothe duplicate series. Fifty-nine boxes have been placed
on general storage, containing duplicate materal the records of which
are imperfect. The total number of specimens in the department is
not far from 40,000.

The collections in economic geology in the department have now been
thoroughly organized, and while we have known for a long time that
the representations of the mineral resources of the country were very
. full and complete, yet much material, until this year, has been stored
away, and more or less inaccessible. Of the localities which had been
developed previous to the Centennial Exhibition the illustrations are
exceedingly full and complete; in fact, no single collection of the kind
can be found to compare with it anywhere else. There are, however,
many localities which have come into prominence since the close of the
Centennial, and these were only partially or not at all represented in the
Centennial material. From time to time some of these deficiences have
been supplied, but there are yet quite a number of localities not rep-
resented, the most important of these being the Menominee iron re-

REPORT OF DEPARTMENT OF METALLURGY. 247

gion, in Michigan, and the Territories of Arizona and New Mexico.
Steps have been taken,in connection with the New Orleans work, to
gather material from some of these localities, but so far nothing has
been received, although I am very hopefal that something may be ac-
complished by the requests we have already made.

As pointed out in my former annual reports, the representations of
metallurgical processes have been the weakest portion of the collections.
This is a matter requiring the collection of systematic series, in which
the various specimens are interdependent. The collections would not
necessarily be at all showy, and it is therefore not so surprising that
the Centennial material should have been deficient in this respect.
Fortunately, however, the necessity of collecting new material for the
New Orleans Exposition has furnished the much-desired opportunity of
strengthening the collections in this direction. It is not easy to get col-
lections of the kind required. In the first place, only a very few owners
of mines or works will take the necessary trouble to get full and com-
plete series, and when they do so they frequently do not wish to give
the necessary information in order that the specimens shall possess the
highest value in an educational series. This reluctance to give infor-
mation has been the most serious obstacle the department has met with
in its collecting. The design of the collecting has been to commence
first with the ore and take series of specimens in the mine taken at
various points, which shall be referred to some central starting point,
so that the position may be known and traced up afterwards if desira-
ble. These specimens are taken to show the various characters of ore
produced by a given mine. Again, series of specimens are taken to
represent the changes that the ore undergoes in going up and down
the mine, and also in going through it both lengthwise and crosswise.
The inclosing wall rocks are also thoroughly represented.

In connection with this collection as much information as possible
has been obtained as to the methods of mining and the habits of the
miners.

After the ore is extracted from the mine it is followed through any
process of concentration that it may be subjected to, such as the crush-
ing and jigging of the sulphide of copper ores in Montana, the washing
of iron ores, or any other operation in preparation for smelting. Each
step in these operations is represented, when possible, by specimens of
the material that forms the basis of the operation, and by the products,
whether they be the valuable ones or the waste products. To the mate-
rial as prepared for smelting are added illustrations of all other mate-
rials entering into the smelting operation, such as fuels and fluxes. Hach
step in the smelting operation is illustrated by the different materials
entering into the operation and by their products. This is followed
through as far as a given mine or works go, and if possible the material
is followed on through other works until it reaches its merchantable
form. These collections are accompanied and supplemented by all the
248 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884.

information it is possible to get in the way of statistics, plans, draw-
ings, and views of the mines and works. Aside from the value of such
systematic collections in metallurgy, they open up a wide field for re-
search in the laboratory, and will therefore form the basis for future
work in that direction. The complete examination of the material
already received will add largely to the stock of information in regard
to the science of metallurgy. Metallurgy being essentially an economic
science, most of the writings on the subject have been confined to the
one question of carrying on the operations at a profit, leaving the con-
sideration of the whys and wherefores and the scientific principles in-
volved almost entirely out of the question. This lack of information in
regard to the science of metallurgy is very unfortunate, and it is the
desire of the curator to so arrange the proper work of the department,
in preparing material for exhibition, as to add as much as possible to the
stock of scientific information.

The collections sent to the New Orleans Exposition could not pos-
sibly be made to cover the whole ground. In fact, the work is mainly
preliminary, but it is hoped that the results obtained will be of suffi-
cient value to warrant an extension of the number of such illustrations,
so that some system of collecting material of this kind will be inaugu-
rated which will add largely to the material on hand, and in time build
up the collections in metallurgy so that they will compare favorably with
those at present in the Museum in the line of economic geology.

The principal drawbacks to the collecting for New Orleans were the
shortness of time and the small amount of money available for the
work. Most of the systematic collections were made either by the
curator in person or else by the young men already referred to—recent
graduates of technical schools—who were very willing to give their time
to the work in consideration of the benefit it would be to them to visit
mines and metallurgical works under the auspices of the Smithsonian
Institution, in order to increase their stock of information, the only cost
to the Museum being their actual expenses while making the collec-
tions.

In order to illustrate more fully the scope and design of these col-
lections it seems desirable to describe briefly the collections as made,
with special reference to the material already in the Museum and also
to what it would be desirable to collect in the future.

Gold.—Gold being a metal of so much intrinsic value, the collections
already in the Musenm were not at all complete, and it is the only in-
stance in which it was thought desirable to make any separate attempt
to collect the ores. In this connection a series of 87 specimens was pur-
chased, representing the occurrence of placer gold in Virginia, North
Carolina, South Carolina, Georgia, Colorado, New Mexico, Idaho, Mon-
tana, Utah, Oregon, California, and Alaska. Some of these specimens
were collected as long ago as 1848, and in some cases are the first dis-
coveredin the region. In the case of California there is a specimen con-

REPORT OF DEPARTMENT OF METALLURGY. 249

taining some of the first gold-dust taken out by Captain Marshall on the
19th of January, 1848. The fact that these specimens were collected so
long ago, and that the date of collection is known in almost every case,
adds very greatly to their value. Indeed, it would be absolutely impos-
sible to duplicate many of the specimens.

A very interesting series of specimens was obtained from the Brewer
Mine, South Carolina, in which the principles of hydraulic mining as
carried on in California are applied.

In the extraction of gold only a few processes have been illustrated.

A very fine collection was obtained from the North Bloomfield Mine,
Nevada County, California, representing the average of the rock as it
is washed down by the little giant, the mercury used to catch the gold
in the riffles, the amalgam as it is collected in the riffle-boxes, the puri-
fied amalgam, the gold produced from retorting the amalgam, fine
gold, and coarse nuggets of gold that are picked up off the floor of
the mine at the clean-up. To this series is added a collection showing
the heavy minerals associated with the gold which are taken out from
the riffle-boxes with the amalgam. This is an exceedingly interesting
and valuable collection, illustrating as it does not only the extraction of
gold, but also as illustrating a process which is without doubt the most
economical of any mining process carried on anywhere, the actual
cost of moving a ton of material from the mine, collecting and saving
the gold, and discharging the waste material being but a few cents.

The next collection illustrates the extraction of free gold from aurif-
erous pyrite by stamping the material and collecting the gold, as an
amalgam on copper plates, as carried on at the Bobtail Mill, Black
Hawk, Gilpin County, Colorado. This collection shows the ore as re-
ceived at the mill, which consists of a fixture of iron and copper pyrite
disseminated through quartz and clay (the gold occurs in the pyrite) ;
the crushed material as it is passed through the sieves of the stamps;
the battery pulp; the gold amalgam as scraped from the copper plates;
the gold resulting from the retorting of the amalgam ; the concentrations
obtained by allowing the heavy portion of the material to settle out in
running water, consisting of pyrite and calcopyrite and containing a
very considerable amount of gold; and the sand or waste material. It
is the only illustration of extracting gold by stamping and amalgamat-
ing that we have, and in the future development of the plan it would
be desirable to add two or more series, illustrating the treatment of
different characters of ore.

In the smelting of auriferous material a collection was made at the
Colorado Smelter, at Butte, Mont., by the curator. This represents the
various ores available to this smelter, the fuel and fluxes used, the
matte produced, and the slag. The work at this smelter is only the first
step in the process. The matte, which contains about 50 percent. of
copper, together with the gold and silver of the ores, is shipped to the
Argo Works, near Denver, for further treatment.
250 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884.

A small but interesting collection was obtained from the works of
EK. Balbach & Son, Newark, N. J., representing a combination of the
smelting process with the electrolytic process for the separation of
gold from copper. It contains various ores, together with the fuels and
fluxes, several mattes, the residue containing the gold from the electro-
lytic deposition of the copper, a very handsome sheet of the electrolytic
copper, and a small bar of the gold separated from the residues.

To these collections representing the extraction of gold is added a
single illustration of its utilization.

A collection showing the exceedingly minute and delicate manipula-
tion required in the manufacture of gold leaf. This collection starts
with a sheet of gold as thin as it is convenient to produce by passing it
through rolls; then the various steps in the process of reducing its
thickness by beating it with hammers between skins until the exceed-
ingly thin gold leaf of commerce is produced. This collection is pre-
sented by Hastings & Co., Philadelphia.

It is very desirable to illustrate other processes of the utilization of

gold,and one of the first collections that we ought to have, and one that —

it would not be very difficult to obtain, is an illustration of the manufact-
ture of gold coins.

Tridium.—A small amount of the iridosmine, found on the northern
shores of California, shows the different sizes of grains of the material
as obtained. To this is added a small amount of the material as sepa-
rated from placer gold at the mint in purifying it for the manufacture
of gold coins.

Silver.—A very large collection of the silver ores of Utah was ob-
tained. Part of the material was donated in exchange by Prof. J. E.
Clayton, of Salt Lake City, Uthh, and was material that he had col-
lected from time to time, much of it such as could only be occasionally
obtained by a collector on the ground. The rest of the collection con-
sists of new material obtained at various mines near Salt Lake City
by Mr. Reckhart.

Some very handsome specimens showing the association of native
silver with native copper from the Lake Superior region mines were
presented by Capt. John Daniels, of the Osceola Mine.

A good set of specimens showing the native silver with sulphide of
copper was obtained by the curator at Butte, Mont.

There are a few localities producing beautiful specimens of native
silver that are not at present well represented in the Museum, and it
would be very desirable to strengthen the collections in this direction
by some further collecting, especially in the southwestern portion of
the country, which is not as thoroughly represented in the ore collec-
tion generally as it ought to be.

The extraction of silver from its ores is represented by a large series
of collections, but more difficulty was encountered in getting full col-
lections, with the necessary information, in the case of silver than with

REPORT OF DEPARTMENT OF METALLURGY. 251

that of any other metal. No illustrations of the process of extracting
silver directly from its ores by stamping and amalgamating were ob-
tained. This is a process that is of somewhat limited application and
yet one of considerable importance, so that a collection illustrating it

_would be very desirable.

The treatment of base ores, that is, ores carrying lead and silver, by
roasting with salt (chloridizing) and stamping and amalgamating, is
illustrated by three collections made by the curator. The first collection
is from the Ontario Mill, Park City, Summit County, Utah, which works
the ore from the Ontario Mine and uses the Stetefeldt furnace for roast-
ing. This is a somewhat remarkable mine on account of the persist-
ency of the vein and its richness, but more especially on account of the
iarge amount of water which has to be contended with. As much ase
6,000 gallons are discharged from the mine per minute. This collection
includes a very full series of the ores taken from different parts of the
mine, selected by Captain Keith ; several average samples of the ore as
delivered to the mill; the dried ore; the stamped ore; the salt in lumps,
dried and crushed; the mixture of the ore and salt ready for the roast-
ing furnace; the roasted ore taken from the bottom of the stack; the
roasted ore taken from the return flue, and samples taken from each one
of the twelve dust chambers; the amalgam produced by treating the
roasted ore in pans with mercury; the base bullion produced from re-
torting the amalgam, which is from 600 to 800 fine; and the tailings as
discharged from the mill. In making this collection the curator was
assisted very materially by Mr. Joseph Gallagher, the superintendent of
the mill, and the Museum is much indebted to Mr. Rk. C, Chambers, the
general manager of the company, for the facilities cheerfully afforded
in making this collection. Two collections were also made by the cura-
tor at Butte, Mont., representing the same process. The series of
specimens are essentially the same as that from Park City, but the
course of operation is somewhat different, owing to the different char-
acter of the ores. At the Moulton Mill, where every attention was
shown the curator by Mr. J. K. Clark, the manager, the ores are dried
on plates and roasted in a Howells revolving cylinder. Besides the
hard unaltered ores of the Moulton Mine this mill works a considerable
amount of custom ore from many different outlying mines, especially
the soft surface ores which have undergone a great deal of alteration.
At the Lexington Mill, which works only the ores of the Lexington
Mine, the ores are dried in a Stetefeldt shelf-drier and roasted in a
Stetefeldt furnace.

In the extraction of silver by smelting it has been guite difficult
to get a thoroughly satisfactory collection, on account of the reticence
of the manufacturers as to details of the process, and also their unwill-
ingness to allow specimens to be taken. <A fairly complete collec-
tion representing the smelting of the argentiferous lead ore and the
refining of the base bullion (silver and lead), at a works having at com-
mand a large variety of ores, was obtained from the Cheltenham Works,
252 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884.

Saint Louis, Mo., by Mr. Gazzam. This collection represents the various
ores available to these works; the fuels and fluxes used ; the pig-lead pro.
duced in the blast-furnace, together with the matte, fluedust, and slag; the
first skimmings taken from the softening furnace; the second skimmings
from the same; thesoftened bullionready for desilverizing; the zinc used
in desilverizing ; the zinc scum, containing the silver, taken from the de-
silverizing kettle; the zinc resulting from the smelting of the zine skim-
mings; the litharge obtained in refining the silver; the fine silver; and
the market lead. The same process, but on different characters of ores,
is illustrated from the Argentine Works, Kansas City, Mo., collected by
Mr. Zukoski, and from the Germania Works, Salt Lake City, collected
by Messrs. Reckhart and Pearis. Refining of base bullion is illustrated
¢rom the works of E. Balbach & Son, Newark, N. J., collected by Mr.
McIntosh. The smelting of argentiferous lead (base bullion) is illus-
trated from the Horn Silver Smelter, Francklyn, Utah, collected by Mr.
Reckhart. This base bullion is refined at Chicago, but the process is
not represented.

No collections were made representing the application of silver, but
it is very desirable to do so as soon as possible.

Tin.—It has been generally supposed that tin was a rare metal in
this country. This, however, is only partially true, the occurrence of
cassiterite, the binoxide of tin, in small quantities, being known to min-
eralogists from a large extent of territory for many years; but itis only
in very rare instances that this occurrence gave even the slightest evi-
dence of there being a deposit which would prove of any commercial
value. The first discovery that was at all favorable was made by Pro-
fessor Jackson in New Hampshire in 1840. Specimens of this ore, to-
gether with a bar of tin produced, have been in the Museum many
years.

A small amount of cassiterite from two localities, together with a bar of
the tin produced, from Montana, was exhibited at the Centennial. An
ore of a different character, being a stanniferous wolfram, has been
known in California for many years, and at one time quite extensive
operations were commenced upon the deposit. The ore, however, is
somewhat difficult of treatment, and this, with litigation, soon closed up
the mine and the works. There are in the Museum several specimens
of this ore, together with two full-sized pigs of tin produced and several
sheets of tin-plate. Isolated specimens of cassiterite have been foune at
various times from several localities in Maine, and the next discovery of
any importance was at Winslow, in thatState, where a more definite vein
carrying cassiterite was discovered in 1867. Thevein here, however, was
exceedingly small,and nothing has been accomplished. Following close
upon each other, in 1882-83, there were discoveries of tin in three widely
separated localities, which have given promise of ultimately producing
more or less tin. These localities are at the Broad Arrow mines, in Ala-
bama,a collection from which was sent to the Museum soon after its dis-
covery; the Cash mines, in Rockbridge County, Virginia, and the depos-

REPORT OF DEPARTMENT OF METALLURGY. 253

its at Harney Peak, in the Black Hills of Dakota. In 1884 a further dis-
covery was made at King’s Mountain, North Carolina. All the latter lo-
calities were not previously represented in the Museum, and in order to
make the series as full and complete as possible a special effort was made
to complete the representations. With one exception this has been en-
tirely successful. The new collections were received from Maine, Vir-
ginia, North Carolina, and the Black Hills. In the latter case, however,
the representations are not at all complete, but a full series has been
promised the Museum by the owner of the Etta, which is the principal
mine of the region.

A complete series of tin plate of Welsh manufacture was presented
to the Museum by Merchant & Co., of Philadelphia. This shows plates
of charcoal iron, coke iron, and Bessemer steel coated with various
thicknesses of tin, giving the different grades and varieties for different
uses,

Antimony.—The occurrence of antimony in this country in workable
deposits is somewhat limited. The ores of Kern County, California,
were partially represented in the Centennial material, but some addi-
tions are desirable. New material from the Utah locality was obtained
from Professor Clayton. This represents the ore in several varieties,
including the very pure and unaltered stibnite and its oxydation pro-
ducts, together with the metal smelted from it. The very interesting
and promising deposits of Southwestern Arkansas are not represented
in the Museum, but it is hoped that a suitable series of specimens from
that region can be obtained at the close of the New Orleans exposition.

Lead.—The extraction of lead alone is somewhat limited, owing to the
factthat so much lead is produced from the refining of the argentiferous
leads of the Western countries; the advantage gained by the presence of
a small amount of silver in the ore being so great that non-argentiferous
ores for the most part cannot be smelted except under the most favor-
able conditions. The Missouri lead region is still able to compete with
this argentiferous material, however, and the processes followed have
been very fully illustrated. The collections include two series from the
Saint Joe and Desloge Works, at Bonne Terre, Mo., collected by Mr.J.F.
Kemp. These collections are especially interesting from the large num.
ber of specimens they contain illustrating the process of the mechanical
dressing or concentration of the ore. The galena occurs disseminated
through a magnesian limestone or dolomite, and the process of concen-
trating this galena mechanically has been brought to a high state of
perfection. Besides these dressed specimens the collections include the
fuels and fluxes, the pig-lead produced, together with the matte and
slag, the skimmings from the refiner and the refined pig. An entirely
similar collection from Mine La Motte, Mo., was made by Mr. Gazzam.
This collection, however, has farther value and interest from the occur-
rence of nickel and cobalt in the Mine La Motte ores.

One of the most interesting of metallurgical operatious is carried on
254 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884.

at the Lone Elm Works, Joplin, Mo. It is the production of a pig-lead
and a white lead direct from the ore in two operations. It is a process
that is only applied here and is not very well known. This collection in-
cludes the ore, the fuels, and fluxes, with a large series of the flue dusts,
the pig-lead and slag obtained in the first operation; the flue dust
after it has been ignited; a large series of white flue dusts obtained
in the second operation ; and a material known as white lead, which is
used extensively as a paint, but which differs completely from the white
lead obtained by corroding pig-lead. This material is mainly a sulphate
of lead, containing, however, a considerable amount of zine, which comes
from zine minerals found associated with the galena in the ore, while
the white lead obtained by corroding pig-lead is a basic carbonate of
lead.

Illustrations of the application of lead are somewhat numerous in the
Centennial collections, but there is an opportuuity to make several im-
portant additions. The only one, however, that was secured last sum-
mer was an interesting collection showing the manufacture of white
lead by the corrosion process. This collection includes the metallic lead
arranged in crucible for corrosion, acetic acid used, the bark with which
the pile of crucibles is covered and upon fermentation furnishes the
necessary carbonic acid, the white lead obtained in the crucibles, the fin-
ished white lead, and the white lead ground in oil. To these are added
specimens of litharge, red lead, and orange mineral.

Copper.—lllustrations of the free copper ores from Lake Superior
contained in the Centennial material, although quite full and extensive,
were not at all systematic, and Messrs. Kirby and Zukoski being in the
Lake Superior region when they commenced collecting, it was thought
best to have them commence by making some systematic collections
there. The copper occurs at Lake Superior in three distinct forms:

First, the so-called mass mines, which are characterized by the occur-
rence of large masses of free copper, amounting in some cases to many
tons of metal in a single mass. Besides these large masses these mines
also carry considerable disseminated free copper.

Second, the amygdaloid wines, which are characterized by the occur-
rence of the free copper in amygdules, bunches, strings, and sheets, from
the size of a pin-point up to a few hundred pounds in weight (with rarely
a large mass) disseminated in a soft amygdaloid trap-rock. The aver-
age percentage of copper in the ores from these mines varies from three-
quarters of 1 per cent. to 2 per cent.

Third, the conglomerate mines, which are characterized by the occur-
rence of the free copper mostly in strings in a hard conglomerate of fer-
ruginous quartz pebbles. The average percentage of copper in the ores
from these mines varies from 4 per cent. to 6 per cent.

To illustrate the occurrence of mass copper Mr. Zukoski made a col-
lection at the Central Mine. This collection includes sections of the
formations beginning with the hanging wall and following through

— Ss

REPORT OF DEPARTMENT OF METALLURGY. 255

the vein to the foot-wall, taken from several levels, isolated specimens
showing the associates of the ore, several pieces of the copper, the chips
obtained in cutting up the masses, and a large and asmall mass. This
collection includes 34 specimens.

To represent the amygdaloid mines Mr. Kirby made a collection at the
Osceola Mine. On account of the more varied character of the amygda-
loid material this collection is much larger than the one from the Cen-
tral Mine, but it is taken on the same general principle of representing
the vein by sections from the hanging wall across the vein to the foot
wall, and also in illustrating the changes of the material as one proceeds
down the mine. The collection includes about 80 specimens and is
very complete illustration of the subject.

To illustrate the extraction of the copper from the amygdaloid ore
Mr. Zukoski made a collection at the Osceola Mill. This includes the
average of the material sent to the mill, specimens of crushed material
as it passes the sieve, the headings from the mortars, and follows through
the process of concentration, showing the concentrated copper and the
waste products of each operation.

To represent the conglomerate mines Mr. Kirby made a collection at
the Delaware Mine. This collection is taken on the same general plan
as the others, and also includes a section of 631 feet along the vein,
showing the various changes that take place in the material. He also
collected a full series representing the concentration of the copper.
This collection includes 100 specimens.

These three collections together represent in a very full manner the
interesting occurrence of free copper in the Lake Superior region, and
will be an exceedingly valuable addition to that subject.

It was very unfortunate that the process of refining this material
could not have been followed out on the spot, but the proprietors of the
refining works at Hancock would not permit any systematic collections
to be taken. The only collections taken there were a short series col-
lected by Messrs. Kirby and Zukoski illustrating the smelting of the
slags obtained in refining the native copper in a McKenzie cupola at
the Lake Superior Native Copper Works.

The process of refining the material from the Mass Mandi is fully illus-
trated by a collection from the C. G. Hussey Works at Pittsburgh, Pa.
This collection includes the various grades of material received from the
concentrating works, a sample of the metal taken from the bath just
after the first skimming of slag, a sample taken just before beginning
to rabble, a sample after rabbling, a sample just before poling, and a
sample of the refined metal, together with four skimmings of slag. To
these are added samples of the coal and charcoal used, of the sand for
making the bottom of the furnace, a piece of the pole used in refining,
and a test ingot showing the tests applied to the metal just before be-
ginning to cast. This collection was made by Mr. W. H. Johns.
256 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884.

The illustrations of the extensive deposits of copper at Butte, Mont.,
formerly obtained, were confined to one mine, but the curator collected
an extensive series last summer, representing the sulphides of copper
and iron and the association of free silver with these sulphureted ores.

Illustrations of the process of smelting as far as carried on at Butte,
Mont., were also collected by the curator, These include series of
specimens from the reverberatory furnaces of the Montana and the
Parrot Companies and the shaft furnaces of the Bell Company. They
include samples of the ore of various grades, with the products and
waste products of the concentrating operations, the fuels and fluxes,
and the matte and slag produced. As most of the matte is shipped to
England for further treatment, it was not possible to follow the process
beyond this single operation.

The very interesting process of smelting and refining copper from the
calcopyrite ore of Saint Genevieve, Mo., is fully illustrated by a collec-
tion made by Mr. Gazzam. This collection includes a full series of the
ore and a full series of the slag produced in the roasting process, to-
gether with the matte and a series of slags from the refining furnace,
an ingot of the refined metal, and the copper mold in which the ingot
was cast. To these are added the fuel and fluxes used and other
necessary material.

The smelting and refining of copper, as carried on at works having at
command a varied supply of crude materials, is illustrated by a collection
from the Baltimore Works of Pope, Cole & Co., Baltimore, Md. This
includes a series of mattes, together with the slags produced at the same
time, and an ingot of the refined metal.

Steps were taken to obtain illustrations of the smelting of the cop-
per of the Arizona and New Mexico region, but on account of the ina-
bility of the Museum to send a collector there and the difficulty of
making arrangements by correspondence in time no series was obtained,
although one is promised and will probably arrive soon.

The process carried on in Arizona produces pig copper at a single
operation. The refining of this pig copper, however, is illustrated by a
very full and complete series of specimens taken by the curator at the
works of the Ansonia Brass and Copper Company, Ansonia, Conn.
This collection includes two series of specimens taken from two differ-
ent classes of furnaces working the copper from two regions. Begin-
ning with the metal as soon as it was melted in the furnace samples
were taken to represent the various stages in the process until casting
was commenced. Each series contains nine specimens. Samples of
the slags produced were also taken. To these were added the fuels
and other necessary material used.

A very complete illustration of some of the uses of copper was pre-
sented by the Ansonia Brass and Copper Company. This series in-
cludes specimens representing the rolling of copper into various com-
mercial shapes, the manufacture of various styles of sheet metal with
at es Le

REPORT OF DEPARTMENT OF METALLURGY. 257

copper for a basis, the manufacture and utilization of brass in various

forms, and the manufacture of copper and brass wire. The collections

illustrating copper and brass are the most full and complete that we
have. There are, however, still a few methods that it would be very
desirable to fill as soon as convenient.

Bismuth.—The occurrence of bismuth in this country is somewhat
limited, having been found in only a tew localities, and there only in
small amounts. None of the ore is treated in this country, but occa-
sionally small amounts are shipped abroad that have been obtained in
mining for other metals. A small collection of the ores of Utah was
obtained from Prof. J. E. Clayton.

Nickel and cobalt.—No new collections were made to represent nickel
and cobalt as there is already a pretty fair illustration of these two
metals in the Museum. It would, however, be very desirable to ob-
tain a few specimens representing the great progress that has recently
been made in the manipulation of wrought nickel.

Tron.—The very extensive collection of iron ores turned over to the
Museum by the Census furnishes a very complete illustration of the iron
resources of the country, and there was no necessity for making any
further collections of iron ores save to go with the collections represent-
ing the processes.

To represent the smelting of pig-iron, representative furnaces were se-
lected in different parts of the country, using different varieties of fuel.
It was not, however, possible to obtain all the collections in this line
that were planned. As representing the application of coke as a fuel,
collections were received from the Rockwood Furnaces of the Roane Iron
Company, Chattanooga, Tennessee; from the Longdale Furnaces in Vir-
ginia; from the Missouri, Nova Scotia and Saint Louis Ore and Steel Com-
pany, in Missouri. As representing the use of a mixture of coke and
anthracite coal, collections were received from the Warwick and North
Cornwall Furnaces in Pennsylvania, and from the Crown Point Furnace
in New York. These collections include hand specimens of the ores, lime-
stone and the fuels, and a series of pig-iron representing as far as possi-
ble the different grades produced at each furnace. With these are
specimens of the slag corresponding with each grade of iron, the slag
specimens when possible being taken from the same cast that the pig-
irous were. To these are added specimens of by-products such as cadimnia,
flue dust, salamanders, &c.

The manufacture of wrought iron direct from the ore is represented
by a collection from the Belmont Forge, Rogersfield, N. Y.

A very interesting collection of Swedish irons was presented by Mr.
N. Lilienberg, of New York. This contains samples of various kinds of
pig-iron, wrought iron, and steel, together with descriptions of the va-
rious processes used in their manufacture.

The manufacture of steel was perhaps better illustrated in the Cen-
tennial material than any other metal. But these collections were ex-

ie, Mie. 33, pt 2—17 .
258 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884.

ceedingly fragmentary and consisted for the most part of highly wrought
specimens, showing more particularly what can be done by suitable .
treatment of the material rather than what is accomplished in the every-
day run of the works, and contained but few illustrations of the regular
course of operations. This material therefore requires to be supple-
mented very extensively in order to form anything like a complete illus-
tration. Inthe newcollectionsthe manufacture of Bessemer steelis most
fully illustrated by a series of nearly 100 specimens collected by Messrs.
Kirby and Zukoski at the South Chicago Rolling Mill. This collection
begins with the smelting of the pig-iron, shows various ores, fuels, and
fluxes used, and the pig-irons and slag produced. Then, beginning
with the blow No. 13,391 in the converting department, specimens of
all the material entering into the blow were taken and also samples of
the metal taken at various times during the conversion and a sample
of the finished steel rail. To these are added samples of the various
refractory materials used, together with a large number of by-products
produced, some of which, however, find application. This collection is
an exceedingly valuable one and will add very greatly to our previous
collections in this line. ;

The process of the manufacture of crucible steel is one but little
known to those not directly interested in it, and it is not very easy to
gather any specimens of the operation of the process, to say nothing of
getting a complete series. Most manufacturers have what they con-
sider exceedingly valuable secrets in this process and are very reluctant
to give any information whatever in regard to their works. A very
complete and interesting collection, however, was presented by Messrs.
Miller, Metcalf & Parkin, of the Crescent Steel Works, Pittsburgh,
Pa.

Tron being the most important metal that we have, its metallurgy is
the most full and complete, and it is a subject that the Museum should
illustrate fully. At the same time the industry is scattered over such
a wide area that it will require a considerable time to work it up fully
andcompletely. But itis hoped that several collections which were prom-
ised for the New Orleans Exposition will yet be received and that we
shall soon have a tolerably fair illustration of the subject.

Zince.—A. very large collection of blende, much of it crystallized, from
Missouri, was made by Messrs. Kirby and Gazzam. The particular mines
to be mentioned are Cowen & Bliss, at Lehigh, Mo., and Spencer & Mce-
Coney, Carterville, Mo. Two collections of silicate and carbonate ores
from Virginia and Tennessee were obtained: one, representing the very
remarkable deposit of the Bertha Zine Company, in Pulaski County,
Virginia, was presented by Mr. Thomas Jones; the other, representing
the deposit at Mossy Creek, Tennessee, was presented by Mr. T. H.
Heald, Knoxville, Tenn.

The collections representing the smelting of zine or spelter from the
sulphide ores of Missouri and Kansas are very complete, having been

REPORT OF DEPARTMENT OF METALLURGY. 259

obtained from the Glendale Works, near Saint Louis; the Joplin Works,
Joplin, Mo.; the Granby Works, Granby, Mo.; the Lanyon Works, Weir
City, Kans., and from the South Side Mining and Manufacturing Com-
pany, Galena, Kans., by Mr. Gazzam. Collections from the Rich Hill
Works, Rich Hill, Mo., and the Cherokee Works, Weir City, Kans., were
obtained by Mr. Zukoski. Although these works employ similar material
yet they vary greatly in detail, some of them being even totally dif-
ferent. The collections represent the ore in its various stages of prep-
aration for the smelting, the fuels and fluxes used, the charge as made
up for the retorts, the spelter produced, the slag and blue powder. ‘To
these are added, in many instances, illustrations of the refractory mate-
rials used and the process of the manufacture of retorts. There are
several other works that it would be very desirable to represent, as they
employ an entirely different character of material, and it is very desir-
able also to obtain collections from some of these as soon as possible.

The utilization of the complicated material occurring at Franklin,
N. J., is a very interesting process, as it illustrates the extraction of
three common metals from a single ore in two operations. The ores
of this region consist of Franklinite—a zinc, iron, and manganese min-
eral—zincite, the red oxide of zine, willemite or silicate of zine, calli-
mine or hydrosilicate of zinc, and rhodonite or silicate of manganese,
occurring for the most part in a gangue of carbonate of lime. For
smelting, these ores are first roughly divided inté two classes, one con-
taining zine only, and the other zinc, iron, and manganese. The first
class is treated for the production of spelter in the regular way. The
zine, iron, and manganese portion is treated first in a special furnace for
the production of oxide of zinc, which is used largely for paint. The
residue remaining in the oxide furnaces, which is known as residuum, is
then treated in a shaft-furnace, for the extraction of its iron and man-
ganese in the form of spiegeleisen for use in the manufacture of steel.

The collection from the zine furnaces shows—

The Franklinite ore, consisting of a mixture of Franklinite or proto-
sesquioxide of iron with zine and manganese replacing the iron, zincite or
oxide of zinc, willemite or silicate of zinc, calcite or carbonate of lime;
in lumps as mined, from the Buckwheatfield Mine, Franklin, Sussex
County, New Jersey.

The same ore crushed ready for the furnace.

The Franklinite ore, consisting of a mixture of Franklinite or proto-
sesquioxide of iron with zinc and manganese replacing the iron, zincite
or oxide of zinc, willemite or silicate of zinc, rhodonite or silicate of
manganese, and calcite or carbonate of lime; in lumps as mined, from
the Sterling Hill Mine, Ogdensburg, Sussex County, New Jersey.

The same ore crushed ready for the furnace.

The silicate and carbonate ore, consisting principally of calimine or
hydrated silicate of zine with a little carbonate of zine resulting from
260 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884.

decomposition, in lumps as mined, from the Sterling Hill Mine, Ogdens-
burg, Sussex County, New Jersey.

The same ore after roasting to expel water and carbonic acid.

The roasted ore crushed ready for the furnace.

Anthracite coal used for heating purposes.

Anthracite coal (fine) to be mixed with the ore in making up the
charge to reduce the zinc to the metallic state.

The mixed charge of Franklinite ore and coal ready for the oxide fur-
nace.

The mixed charge of silicate and carbonate ore with coal for the spel-
ter furnaces.

The residuum remaining in the oxide furnace after the extraction of
the zine.

The oxide of zine produced.

The residue remaining in the retorts after the distillation of the zine
in the spelter furnaces. .

Blue-powder, a by-product, consisting of a mixture of metallic zine
and oxide resulting from imperfect condensation of the zine.

The spelter or metallic zine produced.

To these are added — The fire-clay from Woodbridge, N. J., used for
making retorts.

A piece of new retort.

A piece of old retort.

Old retort ground, to be mixed with the clay in making new retorts.

The collection from the spiegel furnaces shows—

The residuum from the oxide furnaces, containing the iron and man-
ganese originally present in the ore.

- Limestone used for flux, from Sing Sing, N. Y.

Anthracite coal used for fuel.

The slag produced.

Oxide of zine deposited in the gas-flues.

The spiegeleisen produced.

Sulphur.—The manufacture of sulphuric acid from iron pyrite is a
process that has recently been very largely adopted in this country.
Various strong prejudices existed formerly against the use of pyrite for
this purpose on account of the liability of a small amount of arsenic
occurring with the pyrite—this arsenic injuring the acid produced for
many purposes. Recently, however, two very important deposits of
pyrite which are totally free from arsenic have been developed, and the
material is being used quite freely for the manufacture of sulphuric acid.
The deposit at Charlemont, Mass., is represented by a collection of the
lump and fine ore presented by the Davis Company of Boston. The de-
posit at Tolersville, Va., is represented by an extensive series of samples
of the lump and fine ore in several varieties, together with many of the
associates of the deposit. Presented by Mr. W. H. Adams.

The pyrite is first roasted to expel its sulphur, which is then con-

> a

REPORT OF DEPARTMENT OF METALLURGY. 261

verted into sulphuric acid in the regular way. The residue, which gen.
erally contains a valuable amount of copper, is then treated for that
metal. The manufacture of sulphuric acid is represented by a collec-
tion presented by the Merrimac Chemical Company of Boston, Mass.
It shows the lump and fine ore, the residue remaining after the extrac-
tion of the sulphur, the chamber acid, and the concentrated acid pro-
duced.

Ooal.—Mr. James Temple Brown, of the Museum staff, was engaged
during the summer in making a collection to represent the coal mining
industry of the country. This collection contains many specimens
illustrative of the life of the coal miner as influenced by his occupation
and surroundings. And though the work was based mainly upon the
ethnological aspect of coal mining, the collection possesses many other
features which are of interest.

It embraces the carbonite or natural coke and the bituminous coals
of the Jura-Triassic period from the Mesozoic formation of Virginia; the
cannel, gas, splint, bituminous, and semi-bituminous coals of West Vir-
ginia; the semi-bituminous and anthracite coals of Pennsylvania; an-
thracite from the Carboniferous formation of Rhode Island; anthracite
from the Lower Carboniferous or Vespertine of Virginia, and examples
of industrial coke from several localities. Whenever possible refuse or
extraneous matter, as slate, bone or bony, and bisulphide of iron (pyrite),
or “sulphur,” was added to the suites of samples from many mines rep-
resented. As an illustration of the collections made, that from the
Philadelphia and Reading Coal and Iron Company of Pottsville will be
mentioned. It consists of coal, ‘‘ run of mine,” from the mammoth bed
in Kohinoor colliery, including a large piece weighing about three tons;
slate from both the roof and floor of the breast whence the coal was
taken; the marketable sizes of coal as prepared in the breaker, includ-
ing buckwheat, pea, chestnut, small stove, large stove, egg, broken,
steamboat, and lump or furnace; and three kinds of refuse, denomi-
nated “ breaker waste ” (embracing pieces of slate that form the layers
between the benches of coal), bony coal, and dust. The last namedis too
fine to have any commercial importance, and the first two were unavoid-
ably mixed with the coal when blasting it out in the mine. To this col-
lection of coal is added a very large and complete exhibit of the various
tools used by the coal miner, together with many specimens illustrating
his social condition.

The names of the collieries which contributed to the collection, and
their locations, are as follows: Commencing east and proceeding south
we can trace the coal fields in their geological order. The old anthra-
cite mine at Newport, R. I., through the kindness of Prof. R. D. Lacoe,
of West Pittston, Pa., is represented by several pieces of very hard coal,
graphitic in its nature, and of steel-blue color. Examples of the hard
anthracite of Pennsylvania were obtained from the Mammoth bed in
Kohinoor colliery, in the Shenandoah basin of the Middle Coal Field.
262 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884.

This colliery is operated by the Philadelphia and Reading Coal and
Iron Company. The soft or free-burning anthracites were obtained from
the Brookside colliery, a very pure variety, from the Lykens Valley dis-
trict, and the Loyalsock mine in Sullivan County. For convenience of
reference, the Geological Survey of Pennsylvania has designated the
Bernice basin, in which the Loyalsock mine is located, as the Western
Northern Anthracite Field. The Pennsylvania semi-bituminous coals
were obtained from the basins north of Bernice, the Long Valley mine
in the Barclay basin, the Arnot and Antrim mines in the Blossburg
basin. The bituminous coals of Virginia were obtained from the Rich-
mond basin, lying within the limits of Henrico, Chesterfield, Goochland,
and Powhatan Counties. A specimen of anthracite from the vespertine
of Virginia was presented by Col. Philip G. Pendleton, of West Virginia,
and came from Berkeley County, near the line of Morgan County, West
Virginia.

In West Virginia the Eagle, Crescent, Coal Valley, Paint Creek,
Winifrede and Peerless mines, in the Kanawha district, contributed
specimens of coal, including cannel, gas, splint, and bituminous, with
their associates, to the collection ; and from the New River district ex-
amples of coal and slate were forwarded to the Museum from Stone
Cliff, Nuttallburg, Fire Creek, and Caperton. Coke was also received
from some of them.

Coal and sand rock were obtained from the crest of the arch of an anti-
clinal axis on the east end of Mine Hill, in Schuylkill County, Pa., where
the Coal Measures cross over from the Schuylkill basin, and a piece of
coal that was evidently the crest of a miniature axis from the Palmer
Vein colliery.

Forty-eight hour coke and seventy-two hour coke, of especial impor-
tance for metallurgical purposes, and the different sizes of crushed coke
for domestic use, are fully represented; examples of the former were
received from both Pennsylvania and West Virginia, and of the latter
from Connellsville, Pa. The preparation and shipment of domestic
sizes of coke is a new departure in the coking industry. This suite of
samples was solicited by the curator, and consists of pea, nut, small
stove, and egg, together with the lump coke and the coal from which
the coke is made, and was contributed by the H. C. Frick Coke Com-
pany of Pittsburgh, Pa.

Samples of pyrites were obtained in well-defined cubes, and in crys-
talline aggregates, from the washings of coal in a jigger, finely dissemi-
nated in slate, and in ovoid and globular masses of greater or less di-
ameter in the coal itself. The latter are called “sulphur balls” by the
miners, and their presence is strongly objected to, as they are imper-
vious to the pick and a source of considerable annoyance and delay
in cutting coal. They are also a source of danger in “fiery” mines on
account of their hardness, which causes them to throw off sparks of fire
(strike fire) when struck with sufficient force with a pick or other tool.

< =
ee Ss
"REPORT OF DEPARTMENT OF METALLURGY. 263

Among the curiosities of the collection may be mentioned pieces of
iridescent or “ peacock” coal, so called on account of its brilliant me-
tallic colors. Anthracite, semi-anthracite and semi-bituminous coals of
this character are represented; the handsomest specimens being from
the Ross vein of the Red Ash Coal Company of Wilkes Barre.

As an evidence that the miner is warmly receptive to art, and as an
illustration of the adaptability of anthracite coal to such purposes, sev-
eral coal ornaments were obtained: (1) a lady’s slipper, (2) a miner’s
brogan, (5) a table caster with bottles, and other articles made by the
artistic miner in his leisure moments. ‘The first is a very beautiful speci-
men, and is not only artistic but also highly realistic. These were pre-
sented by Mr. P. W. Sheafer and Maj. Heber S. Thompson, of Pottsville.
The tirstis made of coal from Kohinoor colliery, the second from one of the
mines on the Girard estate, and the third from the Ellangowan colliery.
Major Thompson also donated two cubes of anthracite coal. One is.a
4-inch cube, and the coal was mined from the top split of the mammoth
bed in the Hammond colliery. It contains 64 cubie inches and weighs
335 pounds, equivalent to 2574.8, pounds, or 1.149 tons, per cubic yard.
The secord is a 10-inch cube, and is from the mammoth bed (white ash),
Kehley’s Run colliery.

The number of fossil plants in the collection is smal] and restricted
to well-known varieties, such as stigmaria, sigillaria, lepidodendra,
ulodendra, and calamites. Impressions of fern-leaves in both fire clay
and slate should also be noted. One of them, with a silvered matrix,
presented by Mr. P. W. Sheafer, is unusual. An example of uloden-
dron is very pronounced in its bars, a feature which has given rise to
the name of ‘‘ washboard slate” in use by the miners.

The corrosive effect of mine water upon metals is illustrated by
several bolts from a large tubular iron tank used to hoist water from
mines. The bolts, originally 2 of an inch in diameter, have been
eaten away to a mere shred. A mining pick taken from an abandoned
colliery shows the effect of mine water upon iron and steel combined,
the iron has been eaten away to a large extent while the steel is only
slightly attacked.

The objects of geological interest are supplemented by the various
kinds of implements used by the miner, consisting of his tools, lamps,
clothing, and foot-wear, as well as utensils that pertain to his domestic
economy and are essential to his personal comfort while at work. This
list embraces the pick, drill, needle, blasting-barrel, cartridges, and all
accessories used in the processes of cutting and blasting coal; lamps
which burn with a naked flame for the mine officials, miners, drivers,
and mules; and safety lamps of various patterns, including the Clanny,
Davy, and Stephenson. The safety lamps were presented by Messrs.
J. W. Queen & Co., of Philadelphia, who also contributed samples of
brattice cloth, an air-tight fabric of coarse texture used in ventilat-
ing mines. The miner’s outfit is further illustrated by an industrial ex-
264 : REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884.

hibit which includes in their regular order the several parts used in the
process of manufacturing miner’s boots, and also embraces both kinds
of mining boots used by the miner, in the hard coal and soft coal mines
respectively. This exhibit was prepared and presented by Messrs.
Humphrey Bros. and Tracey, Towanda, Pa. An improved form of the
Grim drill, or coal auger, donated by Mr. I. F. Mansfield, Cannelton,
Pa., is shown. The Blossburg Coal Company presented a ratchet-drill
which may be used alternately in boring rock for tunneling and enlarg-
ing gangways, and for excavating coal. This is a fair illustration of
the workmanship of the local artisans employed at our coal mines, and.
was made by the blacksmith at Arnot. .

In addition to the utensils used in excavating coal a set of hand im-
plements or “breaker tools,” used in the breaker while preparing the
coal for market, may also be noted. It comprises a rake and scraper
for manipulating the coal in the chutes and a wire broom for cleaning
the meshes of the large rotating cylindrical screens that distribute the
marketable sizes of coal and to detach slate.

The pictorial portion of the collection consists of (1) photographs, in-
cluding negatives and prints; (2) tracings and sketches on linen cloth ;
(3) lithographs, and (4) cyanotypes. This collection illustrates the
processes of mining by drift, slope, and shaft; the miners in their dif-
ferent positions when engaged in cutting and drilling coal; the working
costumes of the miners and mine officials; the excavation of coal by
the pick and mining machine or “coal digger”; the inside and outside
haulage of coal by means of the mule, mine locomotive, and the under-
ground wire-rope system; the machinery for hoisting coal to the sur-
face; pumping machinery; ventilating fans and fan-houses; exterior
and interior views of the breaker, where the large lumps of coal are
broken and the various sizes assorted for market; the chutes and
pockets for loading coal at the colliery for transshipment; the transfer
of the coal up and down the precipitous sides of the mountains by in-
clined planes; the form of mine wagons used in the anthracite collier-
ies and the bituminous mines; the formation of a coal seam, showing
the partings of slate between the benches and the crest of an anticlinal
where the measures cross over a mountain from one basin to another,
and.coal-washing machinery.

Twenty-one negatives were made in all; five in the soft-coal region
and sixteen in the anthracite. By means of electric light five negatives
were made of the interior of a mine showing miners at work, as well as
of the electric plant used upon the occasion. The views were enlarged
by Mr. T. W. Smillie, photographer of the Museum.

These views represent—

Three miners at work, one with a hand-drill or jumper, making a hole
for a shot, one with pick breaking down coal, and the third in the act
of loading small pieces of coal with shovel; this also shows the different

REPORT OF DEPARTMENT OF METALLURGY. 265

benches, including the 12-foot bench and the leg-breaker, and a pile of
“gob.” (59006.)

The same breast as 59006, with a miner at work with a hand-drill or
coal-auger by the light of the safety-lamp, various tools being grouped
about him. (59008.)

Robbing the mine. Two men at work with the ordinary miner’s lamp,
one with pick and the other with shovel, a pillar of coal on the right.
(59007.)

A view of the entrance to the breast, taken from the face, represent-
ing the manner of propping the gangway, and showing the mule-track,
a pile of gob, and discarded props on the right. (59009.)

A view of the electric plant used in taking the photographs. (59010.)

Photographs of mine locomotives were obtained from the Wyoming
Valley Manufacturing Company, Wilkes-Barre, Pa.,and two photographs
of a fan and fan-house for mine ventilation from the Vulean Iron Works
of the same place. In this series the engines used for both inside and
outside mine service are fully illustrated. One of the originals is used
at Arnot, Pa. (inside), and another at the Raton mines, New Mexico
(inside), and the third at Nanticote, Pa. (outside). A photograph of
the Harrison mining machine, witha miner in position for cutting coal,
was presented by Mr. George D. Whitcomb, Chicago, Ill. A photo-
graph of an apparatus for the inside haulage of coal by the tail-rope or
endless-rope system, Showing double engines of 100 horse-power and
drum, was presented by Mr. Thomas E. Knauss, superintendent of the
Nelsonville Foundry, Nelsonville, Ohio. This machinery, together with
the photographs of the mine locomotives, fully illustrates the improved
mechanical devices for both the excavation and the haulage of coal.
Mr. George M. Bretz, photographer, of Pottsville, Pa., who made all the
negatives in the collection illustrative of typical mining scenes both
above and below ground in the anthracite regions, has sent several
large photographs of representative breakers in the Shenandoah dis-
trict and one photograph of the Mahanoy plane. This series includes
the William Penn colliery breaker, the Lost Creek colliery breaker, and
the Kohinoor breaker. Mahanoy plane is about half a mile long and
about 16,000 tons have been hoisted over it in one day. Mr. Thomas
Hodgson, of Buffalo, N. Y., has contributed two large photographs,
illustrative of the transfer of anthracite coal to the Great Lakes for
western shipment; one picture represents the land view, and shows the
manner of discharging coal from the railroad cars into the pockets, and
the other the water view, and the manner of loading vessels.

Mr. C. A. Ashburner, in charge of the survey of the anthracite-coal
fields of Pennsylvania, contributed three enlarged charts, illustrating
(1) the Panther Creek Coal Basin; (2) cross and columnar sections of
the same, and (3) the Wyoming Valley in the vicinity of Wilkes Barre.
Mr. J. Raymond Claghorn, of Philadelphia, president of the State Line
and Sullivan Railroad Company, contributed a topographical map of
266 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884.

the Loyal Sock Coal Basin in Sullivan County, Pennsylvania. The
Pennsylvania Coal Company contributed a lithograph of its Barnum
colliery breaker at Pittston, Pa. Mr. A. B. Cochrane donated a chart
of the anthracite coal fields of Pennsylvania and their outlet to mar-
ket, including a list of the names of the collieries and a statistical
table showing the annual sbipment of coal.

Mr. P. W. Sheafer, of Pottsville, sent several tracings, one which rep-
resents the columnar section of the coal measures in the vicinity of
Kohinoor colliery, Schuylkill County, Pennsylvania, and another a sec-
tion of the mammoth bed in the same colliery, showing the top and
bottom splits, and the partings of slate, charcoal, and bone; also a
diagram of the progress of the anthracite coal trade of Pennsylvania,
with a statistical table showing the output and estimated quantity of
anthracite coal in the several coal fields and the relative amount of
waste. Mr. John H. Strauch, resident engineer of the Philadelphia and
Reading Coal and Iron Company, sent two tracings; one represents the
underground operation of the standard 20-inch bull-pump used in drain-
ing the mine, including cross-sections of the main gangway and sump,
and the pump and wagon ways of the pump-slope; the other shows the
manner in which the two shafts of this collery were sunk, and indicates;
with full measurements, the positions of the diamond-drill holes used
in blasting the rock. Mr. John A. Pollard, resident engineer of the
Shenandoah district of the Philadelphia and Reading Coal and Iron
Compay, has supplied an excellent sketch of the ground view of Kohi-
noor colliery, with tidal elevations, illustrative of the photographic
work conducted in that collery last summer. Mr. E. F.C. Davis, super-
intendent of the Philadelphia and Reading Coal and Tron Company’s
Pottsville shops, has sent a tracing and cyanotype of the indicator cards
from the steam-engine used to drive the dynamo in the Indian Ridge
colliery September 6, 1884.

Two cyanotypes of coal-washing machinery, showing the construc-
tion of the building, and the generah interior arrangement, were donated
by Mr. 8. Stutz, M. E., of Pittsburg, Pa.

At Bernice were obtained specimens of coal, rock, slate, fire-clay,
mineral charcoal, and a full set of mining tools.

At Long Valley were obtained samples of coal from the top and bot-
tom benches, slate from the roof, and fire-clay from the bottom of the
mine, together with five negatives of typical scenes about Long Val-
ley: (1) the Long Valley coal plane; (2) a group of miners in working
dress; (3) a coal trip emerging from the mouth of the drift; (4) exter.
ior view of one of the Long Valley dwelling-houses (No. 45), occupied
by Mr. Carroll, the inside superintendent, and (5) an interior view of the
same dwelling.

The Pennsylvania anthracite measures attain their greatest depth
at Pottsville, where they are at least 3,000 feet thick, and include per-
haps thirty coal beds, of which fifteen are workable. In the Pottsville

REPORT OF DEPARTMENT OF METALLURGY. 267

district were obtained samples of coal, slate, and bastard slate, from the
Diamond and Primorose beds, and a most excellent photograph of the
winding machinery at the deep shaft. Mr. Bretz made views of repre-
sentative surface scenes at Kohinoor, Shenandoah City, and Ellango-
wan collieries, and interior views of breast 39 in the first-named col-
liery. In the latter, excellent views of ‘“‘robbbing the mine.” the forma-
tion of the coal, and miners at work, were made.

The Philadelphia and Reading Coal and Iron Company undertook to
make the exhibit of coal and mining implements from the anthracite
region of the Middle Coal Field.

As Mr. Brown’s time was limited, he was unable to visit the Rich-
mond coal fields, and relied upon the agents and proprietors, whose of:
fices are in Richmond, for the samples of coal and carbonite included in
the collection. The bituminous coal came from the Aitna mines, 15
miles from Richmond, on the Richmond and Danville Railroad. The
natural coke, or carbonite, came from the Eureka mines, at the same
locality.

Coals from the Belleville mines of Illinois were obtained by Mr. Ed-
mund Bb. Kirby,and from Collinsville and Mount Olive by Mr. Edward
L. Zukoski. Mr. Kirby’s collection from the Belleville mines consists
of slate from the roof, clay from the floor and one of the partings from
the upper bench, coal from the blacksmith bench, ‘‘ nine-inch” bench,
drift, block, and bottom coal and iron pyrite. Mr. E. L. Zukoski’s col-
lection came from mine No. 4 of the Abbey Coal and Mining Company,
Saint Clair County, Illinois, and embraces top and bottom coal, drift
and block coal, overlying slate and underlying clay.

Thanks are due Mr. James Macfarlane, Mr. 8S. W. Alvord, editor of
Towanda Review, Mr. George H. Wood, photographer, and I. O. Blight,
superintendent of the State Line and Sullivan Railroad Company, of
Towanda, Pa.; Mr. J. C. Guthrie, vice-president of the Blossburg Coal
Company, of Elmira, N Y.; Mr. H. J. Landrus, general manager of the
mine at Arnot; Mr. William Howell, of the Fall Brook Company, at
Antrim; Mr. H. C. Davis, of the Barclay Coal Company, Mr. J. Ray-
mond Claghorn, of the State Line and Sullivan Railroad Company, and
Messrs. J. W. Queen & Co., of Philadelphia.

In the anthracite regions we are greatly indebted to Mr. 8. B. Whit-
ing, general manager of the Philadelphia and Reading Coal and Iron
Company, of Pottsville, Pa., for material aid in making up a repre-
sentative exhibit of economic geology illustrative of the anthracite re-
gions, and mining tools and accessories used in that district; also for
his zealous efforts in carrying out the proposition to photograph the in-
terior of a coal mine. Mr. R. C. Luther, mine engineer of the Philadel-
phia and Reading Coal and Iron Company, and his assistants, Mr. George
S. Clements, Mr. John A. Pollard, and Mr. John H. Strauch, resident
and supervising engineers, were unremitting in their endeavors to facil-
itate the work, as were also Mr. E. F. C. Davis, superintendent of the
268 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884.

Pottsville shops, and Mr. William Waters, superintendent of the Shen-
andoah district. Special acknowledgments are due to Mr. R. W. Kear,
secretary of the Arnoux Electric Light and Heat Company, of Pennsyl-
vania, who furnished the dynamo, wire, and other material used in Ko-
hinoor colliery, at his own expense.

Thanks are also due Maj. Jed. Hotchkiss and Mr. M. Erskine Miller,
Mr. Albert Blair, Mr. J. R. Werth, superintendent of the Bright
Hope Railroad Company, of Virginia; Mr. F. Howald, superintendent
of the Fire Creek Coal and Coke Company; Capt. W. R. Johnson,
proprietor, and Mr. Thomas A. Bartlam, superintendent of the Coal
Valley Coal Company; Mr. G. C. Hewitt, general manager of the Wini-
frede Coal Company; Mr. N. M. Jenkin, of Stone Cliff; and Mr. J. C.
W. Tomkins, president of the Cedar Grove mine, for assistance in the
Virginia and West Virginia coal fields.

The collection embraces 300 objects, all of which have been duly cat-
alogued and numbered.

Alloys.—One of the most interesting uses to which metals are put is
the manufacture of alloys for different purposes. This subject had not
been at all represented in the previous collections, but a beginning has
now been made which is capable of being greatly extended. The manu-
facture of brass at Ansonia, Conn., has already been mentioned. The
manufacture of type metal is very fully represented by a collection
presented by Mackellar, Smiths & Jordan, of Philadelphia, Pa. This
collection shows the various metals entering into the manufacture of
type metal and type material and the different grades of type used for
different purposes. To these are added illustrations of the steps in the
progress of casting type, together with illustrations of some of the older
methods. The manufacture of Babbitt, or anti-friction metal, is illus-
trated by collections presented by Messrs. Merchant & Co., and Paul
S. Reeves, of Philadelphia. These both include samples of the metals
used in the manufacture and samples of the various grades of Babbitt.
Messrs. Merchant & Co. also presented an interesting series of solders
of different composition for different purposes. The manufacture of a
special metal for bearings, &c., is itustrated by a collection from the
Ajax Metal Company, of Philadelphia, Pa.

Non metallic ores.—The manufacture of emery cloth said sand-paper
is very fully illustrated by a collection presented by Baeder, Adamson
& Co., Philadelphia. This collection shows the quartz and emery as
mined, as ground and sorted in various sizes for making the paper, and
also illustrates the extraction of the glue and the manufacture of the
paper used. To these are added samples of the various sizes of emery
cloth and sand-paper as put upon the market.

The occurrence and application of asbestos are very fully illustrated
by a collection presented by the H. W. Johns Company, New York.
This includes samples of asbestos froom fifty-five different localities,
and is by far the most thorough and complete illustration of the occur-

REPORT OF DEPARTMENT OF METALLURGY. 269

rence of this material that has ever been exhibited. To this are added
illustrations of the application of asbestos, including various kinds
of packings and covers for heated surfaces, threads of various sizes,
cloth used for various purposes, and in fact very fully illustrates the
application of the material. This collection is one of the fullest and
most complete that we have, and special thanks are due to the Johns
Company for their care and attention in its preparation, they having
gathered all the material and set it up in a very creditable manner.

The materials used for various abrading and polishing purposes are
illustrated by a collection presented by R. J. Waddell & Co., New
York, and a collection of tripoli in its crude and prepared shape
by the Saint Louis Tripoli Company, Saint Louis, Mo. A large col-
lection of corundum, emery, and quartz in the lump and in various
sizes was presented by the Union Stone Company, Boston, Mass.
The preparation of barytes for various uses is represented by a collec-
tion presented by Messrs. Page and Krause, Saint Louis, Mo.

Miscellaneous material.—The application of the regenerative system
of heating devised by Dr. Siemens is very fully illustrated by a large

‘series of drawings of furnaces for various uses presented by Messrs.
Richmond and Potts, Philadelphia.

The use of the diamond drill in mining operations, especially for ex-
ploring purposes, is well illustrated by a collection presented by the
Pennsylvania Diamond Drill Company. This collection includes photo-
graphs of machines suited for various characters of work, illustrations
of the bit of the drill with a large number of cores taken out from dif-
ferent sections of the country, together with drawings showing the use
that has been made of the drill and some of the results obtained.

Owing to the small] space allowed the Museum for exhibition purposes
at New Orleans it was not possible for this department to show any-
where near all the material collected. At the same time, in order to
make the subjects as full as possible, selections were made from materials
already on hand, and the subjects of Economic Geology and Metallurgy
were represented at New Orleans by the following collections:

In the first division of this collection—that of Economic Geology, or
the natural occurrence of materials of economic value—it is designed
to exhibit collections illustrating the different kinds and grades of the
ores of each metal, and also a few collections of non-metallic minerals
of economic importance.

In the second division—that of Metallurgy—it is designed to exhibit
collections representing the processes for the extraction of the metals
from their ores by specimens, where practicable, filling the gaps by
means of illustrations and descriptions and accompanying them by gen-
eral illustrations and descriptions so as to fully explain these processes.

In making up the ore collection it has been designed to represent all
the different varieties of each ore and many of the most prominent min-
ing regions, so as to give a good general idea of the nature of the oc-
currences of the metals and also their distribution, but it has not been
270 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884.

possible to show every occurrence of each variety of an ore, neither has
it been possible to represent every mining region.

The Lake Superior copper region is very thoroughly represented,
both on account of the value of the mines of this region and as repre-
senting the kind of collections it is desirable for the Museum to possess
to illustrate a region or a mine.

Taking, first, the region, it is represented by three prominent mines
showing three different and characteristic occurrences of the ore.

First, the so-called inass mines, which are characterized by the occur-
rence of large masses of free copper, amounting in some cases to many
tous of metal in a single mass, are represented by the Central mine.
Besides these large masses these mines also carry considerable dissem-
inated free copper.

Second, the amygdaloid mines, which are characterized by the oc-
currence of the free copper in amygdules, bunches, strings, and sheets
from the size of a pin-point up to a few hundred pounds in weight (with
rarely a large mass), disseminated in a soft amygdaloid trap-rock, are
represented by the Osceola mine. The average percentage of copper
in the ores from these mines varies from three-quarters of 1 per cent. to
2 per cent.

Third, the conglomerate mines, which are characterized by the oc-
currence of the free copper mostly in strings in a hard conglomerate of
ferruginous quartz pebbles, are represented by the Conglomerate Mine.
The average percentage of copper in the ores from these mines varies
from 4 per cent. to 6 per cent.

Taking the Conglomerate Mine, the collection shows, first, the gen-
eral character of the ore and the inclosing wall rocks; secondly, it shows
the occurrence of the ore at various prominent points in the mine which
are accurately located ; and, thirdly, it shows a section of the rocks over
a distance of 631 feet, by specimens taken at suitable distances to show
the different characters and changes of the material.

In selecting specimens it has not been designed to exhibit those that
are especially handsome or rich, but rather to take such as represent
the actual character, occurrence, and value of the ores. In making col-
lections of ores for the National Museum, it is very desirable that some
definite and systematic plan of representation of this kind should be
adopted, as collections made in this way have far more value for
Museum purposes than the hap-hazard collections of showy specimens
usually found in such establishments.

COLLECTIONS IN ECONOMIC GEOLOGY.
Gold.

Placer gold, from Virginia, North Carolina, California, Idaho, Mon-
tana, Utah, and Oregon.

Gold quartz, from Virginia, North Carolina, South Carolina, Georgia,
California, and Montana.

ee

———

OO

~~ See Se

REPORT OF DEPARTMENT OF METALLURGY. PAs oe |

Auriferous gravel, from California and South Carolina.
Auriferous pyrite, from Virginia and Colorado.
Telluride ores—compounds of gold with tellurium, from Colorado.

Tridiun.

Iridosmine, from California.

Silver.

Native silver with native copper, from the Lake Superior region.

Native silver on sulphide of copper, from Montana.

Wire silver, from Nevada, Montana, Idaho, and New Mexico.

Native silver and horn silver, in sandstone, from Utah.

Horn silver, from Colorado, Utah, Nevada, and New Mexico.

Ruby silver, from Nevada.

Base ores carrying silver (milling ores), from Nevada, Utah, and
Montana.

Argentiferous lead ores (smelting ores), from Colorado, Utah, and
Nevada.

Tin.

On account of recent discoveries and the general interest attaching
to tin the list of the localities of the occurrence of cassiterite, or the
binoxide of tin, has been made as complete as possible, and includes
Maine, New Hampshire, Virginia, North Carolina, Alabama, Montana,
and the Black Hills of Dakota. The tin ore of San Jacinto, Cal., is
also shown.

With the tin ores are shown bars of tin reduced from the New Hamp-
shire (1840), Virginia, Alabama, Montana, and California ores; also a
collection of Welsh tin plate.

Antimony.
The sulphide ores, from Utah (with metal) and California.

Quicksilver.

Cinnabar, from California.

Lead.

The sulphide ores, from Missouri. (For argentiferous lead ores, see

under Silver.)
Copper.

Native copper, from the Lake Superior region in Michigan, including—
water-worn or surface specimens; specimens of the mass copper, and
chips obtained in cutting up the masses in the mine, and specimens
showing the disseminated free copper in the rock, both amygdaloid and
conglomerate. To these are added specimens illustrating the dressing
of the ores.
272 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884.

Sulphide ores, including the sulphides of copper and iron, from Ver.
mont, Maryland, North Carolina, and Missouri, and the sulphide of cop-
per from Butte, Mont.

Oxidized ores, from Pennsylvania, Virginia, and Arizona.

Bismuth.
The oxidized ores, from Utah.

Nickel and cobalt.
The sulphide ores, from Pennsylvania and Missouri.
Tron.

A collection of ores of over 500 specimens, selected from the collections
made by the Tenth Census, under the direction of Prof. R. Pumpelly,
to illustrate the iron industry of the United States, showing all the dif-
ferent kinds and varieties of iron ore found in this country.

This collection is not intended to show the full occurrence in any one
region, but only the prominent varieties of the different regions.

Manganese.
Manganese ore from Virginia and Georgia.
Zine.

The New Jersey ores, including Franklinite, zincite, willemite, and
calamine.
* The silicate and carbonate ores of Tennessee and Virginia.

The sulphide ores of Missouri and Kansas.

Coal.

A collection showing the different varieties of coal from Pennsyl-
vania and Virginia, including anthracite, semi-bituminous, bituminous,
splint, and cannel coal; also a large collection illustrating the methods
of coal mining, including some large photographs (taken by electric
light) of the interior of a coal mine, showing the formation of the coal-
seam and its peculiarities, together with the men at work. These are
the first photographs ever taken of the interior of a coal mine.

Sulphur.

Native sulphur, from Nevada.

Iron pyrites, from Massachusetts and Virginia.

Besides the above systematic ore collections, some illustrations of ores
will be found in the metallurgical collections.

In making up the metallurgical collection it has not been possible to
exhibit the production of each metal exhaustively, owing to the small
amount of suitable material previously in the Department and to the
short space of time available for making new collections.

A few systematic illustrations of metallurgical operations are shown.
In making these collections it has been designed to treat a few subjects
thoroughly rather than a large number superficially. *After suitable

ee eee

—

REPORT OF DEPARTMENT OF METALLURGY. 273

.
consideration a few representative works were selected for illustration,
and have been worked up as completely as possible.

Beginning with the ore as mined, each step in its preparation for
smelting is shown, together with the by or waste products of such

-treatment. To illustrate the smelting operation, the ores, the fuels, the

fluxes, and every other material entering into the operation are shown.
Following through the process, each product of each operation up to
the final product of the works is represented. To these are added, where
practicable, illustrations of materials of construction, such as fire-clays,
sands, &c. The furnaces and tools are shown by specimens, views, and
descriptions. The interest and value of these collections does not lie so
much in the specimens themselves as in their being thoroughly con-
nected, and in the kind and amount of information that can be given
in regard to them.

‘In order to be satisfactory the series must be complete, and the in-
formation full and accurate. <A great deal of time, care, and attention
is necessary in making such a collection.

To illustrate the nature and scope of these collections, a single one,
that from the Passaic Zine Works, will be described in detail. These
works are located at Jersey City, N. J., and use the zine, iron, and
manganese ores from Franklin, Sussex County, New Jersey ; they were
started in 1854, and have been twice enlarged.

From 1854 to 1875 only oxide of zine was manufactured ; in 1875 the
spelter furnaces were added, and in 1884 the spiegel furnace. The
works have been in constant operation from the very beginning.

There are 48 furnaces, 6 by 4 feet, making oxide of zinc, arranged in
double rows of 8and 10. There are 12 spelter furnaces arranged in
blocks of 4 each. The spiegel plant consists of one 9 feet 8 inches by
374 feet blast-furnace.

The Franklinite ores are treated first in the oxide furnaces for the
production of oxide of zine and the residues containing iron and man-
ganese are smelted in the blast-furnace for the production of spiegel.

The silicate and carbonate ores are smelted in the spelter furnaces
for the production of metallic zine.

The collection from the zine furnaces shows—

The Franklinite ore, consisting of a mixture of Franklinite or proto-
sesquioxide of iron with zine and manganese replacing the iron, zincite
or oxide of zinc, willemite or silicate of zinc, calcite or carbonate of
lime, in lumps as mined, from the Buckwheatfield mine, Franklin, Sus-
sex County, New Jersey.

The same ore crushed ready for the furnace.

The Franklinite ore, consisting of a mixture of Franklinite or proto-
sesquioxide of iron with zine and manganese replacing the iron, zincite
or oxide of zinc, willemite or silicate of zine, rhodonite or silicate of
manganese, and calcite or carbonate of lime, in lumps as mined, from
the Sterling Hill mine, Ogdensburg, Sussex County, New Jersey.

S. Mis. 33, pt. 2——18
274 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1864.
e

The same ore crushed ready for the furnace.

The silicate and carbonate ore, consisting principally of calimine or
hydrated silicate of zine with a little carbonate of zinc, resulting from
decomposition, in lumps as mined, from the Sterling Hill mine, Ogdens-
burg, Sussex County, New Jersey.

The same ore after roasting to expel water and carbonic acid.

The roasted ore crushed ready for the furnace.

Anthracite coal used for heating purposes.

Anthracite coa¥ (fine) to be mixed with the ore in making up the
charge to reduce the zinc to the metallic state.

The mixed charge of Franklinite ore and coal ready for the oxide fur-
nace

The mixed charge of silicate and carbonate ore for the spelter fur-
naces.

The residuum remaining in the oxide furnace after the extraction of
the zine.

The oxide of zinc produced.

The residue remaining in the retorts after the distillation of the zinc
in the spelter furnaces.

Blue powder, a by-product consisting of a mixture of metallic zine
and oxide resulting from imperfect condensation of the zinc.

The spelter or metallic zine produced.

To these are added—

The fire-clay from Woodbridge, N. J., used for making retorts.

A piece of new retort.

A piece of old retort.

Old retort ground, to be mixed with the clay in making new retorts.

The collection from the spiegel furnaces shows—

The residuum from the oxide furnaces, containing the iron and man-
ganese originally present in the ore.

Limestone used for flux, from Sing Sing, N. Y.

Anthracite coal used for fuel.

The slag produced.

Oxide of zine deposited in the gas-flues.

The spiegeleisen produced.

The collection of specimens is supplemented by photographic views
of the principal points about the works. _

COLLECTIONS IN METALLURGY.
Gold.

The extraction of the free gold from the auriferous gravel of California
by amalgamation: Collection from the North Bloomfield mine, Nevada
County, California.

The extraction of the free gold from the auriferous pyrite in quartz
of Colorado, by stamping and amalgamating: Collection from the Bob-
tail mill, Black Hawk, Gilpin County, Colorado.

The extraction of gold from the auriferous mispickel (arsenical pyrites)

:
y
4
Ms
£
.
REPORT OF DEPARTMENT OF. METALLURGY. 275
. J —
by roasting and chlorination: Collection from the Del Oro Works,

Canada.

The extraction of gold and copper from auriferous copper ores, by the
fusion and electrolytic process: Collection from the works of E. Balbach
& Son, Newark, N. J.

The manufacture of gold leaf: Collection from Hastings & Co., Phil-
adelphia, Pa.

Silver.

The extraction of silver from base ores by chloridizing roasting, and
milling (amalgamation): Collection from Ontario Mill, Park City, Sum-
mit County, Utah.

The smelting of argentiferous lead ores and the refining of the base
bullion (silver and lead): Collection from the Cheltenham Works, Saint
Louis County, Missouri.

The refining of base bullion (silver and lead): Collection from the
works of E. Balbach & Son, Newark, N. J.

Lead.

The manufacture of pig lead and white lead direct from the ore: Col-

lection from the Lone Elm Works, Joplin, Mo.
Copper.

The smelting and refining of copper by the fusion process: Collec-
tions from the Baltimore Copper Works, Baltimore, Md., and Saint
Genevieve Copper Works, Saint Genevieve, Mo. ;

The refining of pig copper: Collection from the Ansonia Brass and
Copper Works, Ansonia, Conn.

The rolling of copper: Collection from the Ansonia Brass and Copper
Works, Ansonia, Conu.

Iron.

The smelting of pig iron: Collections from the Crown Point Furnace,
Crown Point, N. Y., the Rockwood Furnace, Rockwood, Tenn., and the
Missouri Furnace, Saint Louis, Mo.

Steel.

The manufacture of crucible steel : Collection from the Orescent Steel
Works, Pittsburgh, Pa.

The manufacture of Bessemer steel: Collection from the South Chi-
cago Bessemer Works, South Chicago, Il

Zine.

The smelting of spelter or zinc: Collections from the Glendale Zine
Works, Saint Louis, Mo., the Joplin Zine Works, Joplin, Mo., and the
Rich Hill Zine Works, Rich Hill, Mo.

Zinc, iron, and manganese.

The smelting of spelter or zine, oxide of zine, and spiegeleisen from
Franklin, N. J., ores; Collection from the Passaic Zine Works, Jersey
City, N. J.
276 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884.

Coke. ;
The manufacture of coke at Connellsville, Pa.: Collection from the
H. C. Frick coke ovens.
Sulphur.
The manufacture of sulphurie acid from iron pyrites: Collection from
the Merrimac Chemical Company, Boston, Mass.
The manufacture of alloys.

Brass and its utilization: Collection from the Ansonia Brass and
Copper Works, Ansonia, Conn.

Type metal and its utilization: Collection from the type foundry of
Mackellar, Smiths & Jordan, Philadelphia, Pa.

Babbitt, or anti-friction, metals: Collections from Merchant & Co.,
and Paul 8. Reeves, Philadelphia, Pa.

Solders: Collection from Merchant & Co., Philadelphia, Pa.

COLLECTIONS ILLUSTRATING THE PRACTICAL APPLICATION OF NON-
METALLIC ORES.

The manufacture of sand-paper: Collection from Baeder, Adamsom
& Co., Philadelphia, Pa.

Asbestos and its application: Collection from the H. W. Johns Com-
pany, New York.

Abrading and polishing materials: Collections from R. J. Waddell
& Co., New York, and Saint Louis Tripoli Company, Saint Louis, Mo.

The utilization of barytes: Collection from Page & Krause, Saint |
Louis, Mo.

The past year has been one of great activity in this department, far
more having been done than in the first year of its organization. A con-
siderable amount of the accumulated material on hand since the de-
partment was organized in December, 1852, has now been administered
upon and so disposed that far better use can be made of the material on
hand, and it is much easier to see what portions of the collections most
need strengthening. At the same time the more thoroughly organized
the material is, the more apparent it becomes that there is yet a large
amount of work in investigation needed to fit the material to accoms
plish the most good as an educator. Work of this character will occupy
the attention of the department to a considerable extent for many years.

NOTES. ‘

The department has had the aid during the entire year of Ensign H.
M. Witzel, U. 8. Navy, who rendered valuable assistance in the work
of the department.

Mr. James Temple Brown, of the Museum staff, was engaged for sev-
eral months in making an extensive series of collections representing
coal mining, and also assisted in the work of the department both at
Washington and in New Orleans.

The clerical work of the department was done during eleyen months
of the year by Mr. F. I. Offutt, who was assisted by Mr. W. H. Newhall
for several months.

2 eR AD ender, wt eg ee
ee a a ee fees oe

;
‘
;
;
}
4

ies Lo ELE.

SCIENTIFIC PAPERS ILLUSTRATING THE COLLECTIONS IN THE

U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884.

Page.

I. Throwing-sticks in the National Museum. By Otis T. Mason... ...--. 279-289
Il. Basket-work of the North American aborigines. By OTIs T. MASON.... 291-306

Ill. A Study of the Eskimo bows in the U. 8. National Museum. By JOHN
LO ES ee Pee - ae ae ae POE ey ee ee ee ee 307-316

IV. On aspotted dolphin apparently identical with the Prodelphinus doris
Bat avs ve MRE DMETOKaWs (RUE «pas coe cike Sane ctcn sts cea =o asa ae 24
VY. The Florida Muskrat (Neofiber Alleni True). By eon aS W. TRUE... 325-330

VI. On the, West Indian Seal (Monachus tr pet Gray). By FREDERICK
Meh MM A ISGAR: eet iia saan ae@esp es So. - ccs <n eo ating so oles

277
*
- I.—THROWING-STICKS IN THE NATIONAL MUSEUM,

By Otis T. Mason.

Col. Lane Fox tells us there are three areas of the throwing-stick :
Australia, where it is simply an elongated spindle with a hook at the
end; the country of the Conibos and the Purus, on the Upper Amazon,
where the implement resembles that of the Australians, and the hyper-
borean regions of North America.

It is of this last group that we shall now speak, since the National
Museum possesses only two specimens from the first-named area and
none whatever from the second.

The researches and collections of Bessels, Turner, Boas, Hall, Mintz-
ner, Kennicott, Ray, Murdoch, Nelson, Herendeen, and Dall, to all of
whom I acknowledge my obligations, enable me to compare widely sep-
arated regions of the hyperborean area, and to distinguish these regions
by the details in the structure of the throwing-stick.

The method of holding the throwing-stick is indicated in Fig. 1_
by a drawing of H. W. Elliott. The Eskimo is just in the act of
launching the light seal harpoon. The barbed point will fasten itself
into the animal, detach itself from the ivory foreshaft, and unwind the
rawhide or sinew line, which is securely tied to both ends of the light
wooden shaft by a martingale device. The heavy ivory foreshaft will
cause the shaft to assume an upright position in the water, and the
whole will act as a drag to impede the progress of the game. The same
idea of impeding progress and of retrieving is carried out by amulti-
tude of devices not necessary to mention here.

The Eskimo spend much time in their skin kyaks, from which it
would be difficult to launch an arrow from a bow, or a harpoon from the
unsteady, cold, and greasy hand. This device of the throwing-stick,
therefore, is the substitute for the bow or the sling, to be used in the
kyak, by a people who cannot procure the proper materials for a heavier
lance-shaft, or at least whose environment is prejudicial to the use of
such a weapon. Just as soon as we pass Mount St. Elias going south-
ward, the throwing-stick, plus the spear or dart of the Eskimo and the
Aleut, gives place to the harpoon with a long, heavy, cedar shaft, weigh-
ing 15 or 20 pounds, whose momentum from both hands of the Indian,
without the throw-stick, exceeds that of the Eskimo and Aleut darts

279
280 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884.

and harpoons, with the additional velocity imparted by the throwing-
stick. It must not be forgotten, also, that the kyak is a very frail, un-
steady thing, and therefore not much of the momentum of the body can
be utilized, as it is by the Northwest Indians in making a lunge with
.a heavy shaft. The throwing-stick is also said by some arctic voy- .
agers to be useful in giving directness of aim. Perhaps no other savage
device comes so near in this respect to a gun barrel or the groove of a
bow-gun. Its greatest advantages, however, are the firm grip which
it gives in handling a harpoon or dart, and the longer time which it
permits the hunter to apply the force of his arm to the propulsion of
his weapon. Having practiced with a throwing-stick somewhat, I have
imagined also that there was a certain amount of leverage acquired by
the particular method of holding the stick and straightening the arm,
as ina toggle joint. That implement, which seems so simple, and which
is usually mentioned and dismissed in a word, possesses several marks
or organs, which help to distinguish the locality in which each form
occurs, as well as to define the associations of the implement as regards
the weapon thrown from it and the game pursued. These marks are:

1. Shape, or general outline in face and side view, and size. ;

2. Handle, the part grasped in the hand.

3. Thumb-groove or thumb-lock, provision for the firm and comfort-
able insertion of the phalanx and ball of the thumb.

4, Finger-grooves, provision for each finger according to its use in

the manipulation of the implement.
' 5, Finger-pegs, little plugs of wood or ivory to give more certain grip
for the fingers and to prevent their slipping. The devices for the fin-
gers are the more necessary where the hands are cold and everything is
covered with grease.

6. Finger-tip cavities, excavations on the front face of the implement,
into which the tips of the three last fingers descend to assist in grasp- ;
ing and to afford a rest on the back of these fingers for the weapon :
shaft.

7. Index-finger cavity or hole, provision for the insertion of the in-
dex finger, which plays a very important part in the use of the throw-
ing-stick.

8. Spear shaft groove, in which the shaft of the sire lies, aS an
arrow or bolt in the groove of a bow-gun.

9. Hook or spur, provision for seizing the butt ond of the weapon
while it is being launched. These may be ridges left in the wood by
excavation, or pieces of wood, bone, ivory, &¢., inserted. The size and
shape of sis part, and the manner of eeenen are also worthy of
notice.

10. Edges: this feature is allied to the form and not to the function
of the implement.

11. Faces: upper, on which the weapon rests; lower, into which the
index finger is inserted.

Sea ee ewe? Y-*

_ ss.
- =

THROWING-STHCKS. 281

The figures illustrating this article are _drawn to a scale indicated by
inch marks in the margin, every dot on the line standing for an inch.

By the presence or absence, by the number or the shape of some of
these marks or structural characteristics, the type and locality can be
easily detected. The Eskimo have everywhere bows and arrows for
land hunting, the former made of several pieces of bone lashed together,
or of a piece of driftwood lashed and re-enforced with sinew. The ar-
rows are of endless variety.

It should also be noticed that the kind of game and the season of the
year, the shape and size of the spear accompanying the stick, and the
bare or gloved hand, are all indicated by language expressed in various
parts of this wonderful throwing-stick.

GREENLAND TYPE.

The Greenland throwing-stick is a long, flat trapezoid, slightly ridged
along the back (Fig. 2). It has no distinct handle at the wide end,
although it will be readily seen that the expanding of this part secures
a firm grip. A chamfered groove on one side for the thumb, and a
smaller groove on the other side for the index finger, insure the imple-
ment against slipping from the hunter’s grasp. Marks 5, 6, 7 of the
series on page 280 are wanting in the Greenland type. The shaft-groove,
in which lies the shaft of the great harpoon, is wide, deep, and rounded
at the bottom. There is no hook, as in all the other types, to fit the
end of the harpoon shaft, but in its stead are two holes, one in the front
end of the shaft-groove, between the thumb-groove and the finger-
groove, with an ivory eyelet or grommet for a lining, the other at the
distal end of the shaft-groove, in the ivory piece which is ingeniously
inserted there to form that extremity. This last-mentioned hole is not
cylindrical like the one in front, but is so constructed as to allow the
shaft-peg to slide off easily. These holes exactly fit two ivory pegs
projecting from the harpoon shaft. When the hunter has taken his
throwing-stick in his hand he lays his harpoon shaft upon it so that
the pegs will fall in the two little holes of the stick. By a sudden jerk
of his hand the harpoon is thrown forward and released, the pegs draw-
ing out of the holes in the stick. At the front end of the throwing-stick
a narrow piece of ivory is pegged to prevent splitting. As before inti-
mated, this type of throwing-stick is radically different from all others
in its adjustment to the pegs on the heavy harpoon. In all other exam-
ples in the world the hook or spur is on the stick and not on the weapon.

UNGAVA TYPE.

One specimen from Fort Chimo in this region, southeast of Hudson
Bay, kindly lent by Mr. Lucien Turner, is very interesting, having little
relation with that from Greenland (which is so near geographically),

and connecting itself with all the other types as far as Kadiak, in
282 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884.

Alaska (Fig. 3). The outline of the implement is quite elaborate and
symmetrical, resembling at the hook end a fiddle-head, and widening
continuously by lateral and facial curves to the front, where it is thin
and flat. A slight rounded notch for the thumb, and a longer chamfer
for three fingers, form the handle. Marks 5 and 6 are wanting. The
cavity for the index finger extends quite through the implement, as it
does in all cases where it is on the side of the harpoon-shaft groove,
and not directly under it. The shaft groove is shallow, and the hook
at the lower extremity is formed by a piece of ivory inserted in a par-
allel groove in the fiddle-head and fastened with pegs. It is as though
a saw-cut one-eighth inch wide had been made longitudinally through
the fiddle-head and one-half inch beyond, and the space had been filled
with a plate of ivory pared down flush with the wood all round, except-
‘ing at the projection left to form the hook or spur for the harpoon shaft.
This peg or spur fits in a small hole in the butt of the harpoon or spear
shaft and serves to keep the weapon in its place until it is launched from
the hand. The Ungava spear is heavier than that of the western Eskimo,
hence the stick and its spur are proportionately larger. It is well to
observe carefully the purport of the spur. A javelin, assegai, or other
weapon hurled from the hand is seized in the center of gravity. The
Greenland spears have the pegs for the throwing-stick sometimes at
the center of gravity, sometimes at the butt end. In all other uses of
the throwing-stick the point of support is behind the center of gravity,
and if the weapon is not fastened in its groove in cannot be hurled.
This fastening is accomplished by the backward leaning of the peg in
the Greenland example, and by the spur on the distal end of the throw-
ing-stick in all other cases. ,

CUMBERLAND GULF TYPE.

The Cumberland Gulf type is the clumsiest throwing-stick in the
Museum, and Dr. Franz Boas recognizes it as a faithful sample of those
in use throughout Baffin Land (Fig. 4).

In general style it resembles Mr. Turner’s specimens from Ungava ;
but every part is coarser and heavier. It is made of oak, probably ob-
tained from a whaling vessel. Instead of the fiddle-head at the distal
end we have a declined and thickened prolongation of the stick with-
out ornament. There is no distinct handle, but provision is made for
the thumb by a deep, sloping groove; for the index-finger by a perfo-
ration, and for the other three fingers by separate grooves. These give
a splendid grip for the hunter, but the extraordinary width of the
handle is certainly a disadvantage. There are two longitudinal grooves
on the upper face; the principal one is squared to receive the rectangu-
lar shaft of the bird spear; the other is chipped out for the tips of the
fingers, which do not reach across to the harpoon shaft, owing to the
clumsy width of the throwing-stick. In this example, the hook for the

THROWING-STICKS. 283

end of the bird-spear shaft is the canine tooth of some animal driven
into the wood at the distal end of the long-shaft groove.

FURY AND HEOCLA STRAITS TYPE.

In Parry’s Second Voyage (p. 508) is described a throwing-stick of
Igloolik, 18 inches long, grooved for the shaft of the bird-spear, and hav-
ing a spike for the hole of the shaft, and a groove for the thumb and
for the fingers. The index-finger hole is not mentioned, but more than
probably it existed, since it is nowhere else wanting between Ungava
and Cape Romanzoff in Alaska. This form, if properly described by
Parry, is between the Ungava and the Cumberland Gulf specimen,
having no kinship with the throwing-stick of Greenland. The National
Museum should possess an example of throwing-stick from the Fury and
Hecla Straits.

ANDERSON RIVER TYPE.

The Anderson River throwing-stick (and we should include the Mac-
kenzie River district) is a very primitive affair in the National Museum,
being only a tapering flat stick of hard wood (Fig. 5). Marks 2, 3,
4, 5, and 6 are wanting. The index-finger cavity is large and eccentric
and furnishes a firm hold. The shaft-groove is a rambling shallow slit,
not over halfaninch wide. There is no hook or spur of foreign material
inserted for the spear end; but simply an excavation of the hard wood
which furnishes an edge to catch a notch in the end of the dart. Only
one specimen has been collected from this area for the National Mu-
seum; therefore it is unsafe to make it typical, but the form is so unique
that it is well to notice that the throwing-stick in Eskimoland has its
simplest form in the center and not in the extremities of its whole area-
It is as yet unsafe to speculate concerning the origin of this implement.
A rude form is as likely to be a degenerate son as to be the relic of a
barbaric ancestry. Among the theories of origin respecting the Eskimo,
that which claims for them a more southern habitat long ago is of —
great force. If, following retreating ice, they first struck the frozen
ocean at the mouth of Mackenzie’s River and then invented the kyak
and the throwing-stick, thence we may follow both of these in two direc-
tions as they depart from a single source.

POINT BARROW TYPE.

Throngh the kindnessof Mr. John Murdoch, I have examined a number
from this locality, all alike, collected in the expedition of Lieutenant
Ray, U.S. A. (Fig. 6). They are all of soft wood, and in general out-
line they resemble a tall amphora, bisected, or with a slice cut out of
the middle longitudinally. There is a distinct “‘ razor-strop” handle,
while in those previously described the handle is searcely distinct from
the body. Marks 3, 4, 5, and 6 are wanting. The index-finger hole is
very large and eccentric, forming the handle of the “amphora.” The
284 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884.

groove for the harpoon or spear-shaft commences opposite the index-
finger cavity as a shallow depression, and deepens gradually to its other
extremity, where the hook for the spear-shaft is formed by an ivory
peg. This form is structurally almost the same as the Anderson River
type, only it is much better finished.

KOTZEBUE SOUND TYPE.

The Kotzebue Sound type is an elongated truncated pyramid, or obe-
lisk, fluted on all sides (Fig. 7). The handle is in the spiral shape so
frequent in Eskimo skin-scrapers from Norton Sound and vicinity, and
exactly fits the thumb and the last three fingers. Marks 5 and 6 are
wanting. The index cavity is a cul de sac, into which the forefinger is to
be hooked when the implementis in use. Especial attention is called to
this characteristic because it occurs here for the first time and will not
be seen again after we pass Cape Vancouver. From Ungava to Point
Barrow the index-finger hole is eccentric and the finger passes quite
through the implement and to tie right of the harpoon or spear-shaft.
In the Kotzebue type the-index finger cavity is subjacent to the spear-
shaft groove, consequently the forefinger would be wounded or at least
in the way by passing through the stick. The spear or harpoon-shaft
groove is wide and shallow and passes immediately over the index
cavity. The hook is of ivory and stands up above the wood. It needs
only to be mentioned that this type, as well as those with eccentric
forefinger perforations are used with the naked hand.

In the quarto volume of Beechey’s Voyage, page 324, is mentioned a
throwing-stick from Eschscholtz Bay, with a hole for the forefinger and
a notch for the thumb, the spear being placed in the groove and em-
braced by the middle finger and the thumb. This last assertion is very
important. When I first began to examine a large number of the im-
plements, I could not explain the cavities for the finger-tips until this
note suggested that the shaft rides outside of and not under the fingers.
To test the matter I had a throwing-stick made to fit my hand, and
found that the spear could get no start if clamped close to the throw-
ing-stick by all the fingers; but if allowed to rest on the back of the
fingers or a part of them, and it is held fast by the thumb and middle
finger, it had just that small rise which gave it a start from the pro-
pelling instrument.

In the national collection is a specimen marked Russian America,
collected by Commodore John Rodgers, resembling in many respects
the Kotzebue Sound type. The handle is of the same razor-strop shape,
but on the upper side are three deep depressions for the finger-tips. In
several of the objects already described provision is made for the tips
of the last three fingers by means of a gutter or slight indentations.
But in no other examples is there such pronounced separation of the
fingers. In very many of the Norton Sound skin-dressers, composed.
of a stone blade and ivory handle, the fingers are separated in exaetly

OP wt! oe ee

“—v Po .

THROWING-STICKS. 285

the same manner. These skin-dressers are from the area just south of
Kotzebue Sound. The back of the Rodgers specimen is ornamented in
its lower half by means of grooves. In its upper half are represented
the legs and feet of some animal carved outina graceful manner. The
index-finger cavity is central and is seen on the upper side by a very
slight rectangular perforation, which, however, does not admit the extru-
sion of any part of the index-finger. The upper surface is formed by
two inclined planes meeting in the center. Along this central ridge is
excavated the groove for the spear-shaft, deep at its lower end and
quite running out at its upper extremity. The hook for the end of the
harpoon-shaft in this specimen resembles that seen on the throwing-
sticks of the region south of Cape Vancouver. The whole execution of
this specimen is so much superior to that of any other in the Museum
and the material so different as to create the suspicion that it was made
by a white man, with steel tools (Fig 8).

EASTERN SIBERIAN TYPE.

The National Museum has no throwing-stick from this region, but
Nordenskjéld figures one in the Voyage of Vega (p. 477, Fig. 5), which
is as simple as the one from Anderson River, excepting that the former
has a hook of ivory, while the latter has a mere excavation to receive
the cavity on the endof the weapon. Nordenskjéld’s bird-spear accom-
panying the stick has a bulb or enlargement of the shaft at the point
opposite the handle of the throwing-stick, which is new to the collection
of the National Museum. Indeed, a systematic study should now be
made of the Siberian throwing-sticks to decide concerning the commer-
cial relationships if not the consanguinities of the people of that region.

PORT CLARENCE AND CAPE NOME TYPE.

The specimens from this area are more or less spatulate in form, but
very irregular, with-the handle varying from that of the razor-strop to
the spiral, twisted form of the Eskimo skin-scraper (Fig. 9). On the
whole, these implements are quite similar to the next group. A section
across the middle of the implement would be trapezoidal with incurved
sides. In two of the specimens not figured these curved sides are
brought upward until they join the upper surface, making a graceful
ornament. The handles are not symmetrical, the sides for the thumb
being shaved out so as to fit the muscles conveniently. Places for the
fingers are provided thus: There is an index-finger cavity quite through
the stick indeed, but the index-finger catches in the interior of the wood
and does not pass through as in the eastern Arctic types. The middle
finger rests against an ivory or wooden peg. ‘This is the first appear-
ance of this feature. It will be noted after this on all the throwing-
sticks as the most prominent feature until we come to Kadiak, but
the Unalashkans do not use it on their throwing-sticks. Cavities for
the three Jast finger-tips are not always present, and the hooks at the
286 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884.

distal ends for the extremities ofthe weapons are very large plugs of
wood or ivory and have beveled edges rather than points for the re-
ception of the butt end of the weapon to be thrown.

NORTON SOUND TYPES.

These types extend from Cape Darby around to Cape Dyer, includ-
ing part of Kaviagmut, the Mahlemut, the Unaligmut, and the Ekog-
mut area of Dall, and extending up the Yukon River as far as the Eskimo,
who use this weapon. The characteristics are the same as those of the
last named area, excepting that in many specimens there are two finger-
pegs instead of one, the first peg inclosing the middle finger, the second
the ring-finger and the little finger (Figs. 10-13). A single specimen
collected by Lucien Turner at Saint Michael’s has no index cavity, the
forefinger resting on the first peg and the other three fingers passing
between this and the outer peg (Fig. 14). Another specimen of Nelson’s,
marked Sabotinsky, has the index-finger cavity and one finger-peg. The
finger-tip cavity on the upper surface of the handle forms the figure of
a water-bird, in which the heart is connected with the mouth by a
curved line, just as in the pictography of the more southern Indians.

The Yukon River Eskimo use a throwing-stick quite similar to the
Norton Sound type. The characteristics are very pronounced. Thumb-
groove deep, index-finger cavity so long as to include the first joint.
The hook for the spear-end formed by the edge of a plug of hard wood.
The middle finger is separated by a deep grooveand peg. Thering and
_little finger are inclosed by the peg and a sharp projection at the upper
end of the handle.

*~NUNIVAK ISLAND AND CAPE VANCOUVER TYPE.

In this region a great change comes over the throwing-stick, just as
though it had been stopped by Cape Romanzoff, or new game had called
for modification, or a mixing of new peoples had modified their tools
(Figs. 15-17). The index-finger cavity and the hole for the index finger
are here dropped entirely, after extending from Greenland uninter-
ruptedly to Cape Romanzoff. The handle is conspicuously wide, while
the body of the implement is very slender and light. The thumb-groove
is usually chamfered out very thoroughly so as to fit the flexor muscle
conveniently. There are frequently finger-grooves and finger-tip cavi-
ties in addition to the pegs. The cavity for the index finger having
disappeared, provision is made for that important part of the hand by
a separate peg and groove. The middle finger is also pegged off, and
the last two fingers have to shift for themselves. The hook for the
shaft of the weapon has a fine point like a little bead, the whole imple-
ment being adapted to the light seal-harpoon darts. Mr. Dall collected
a large number of two-pegged sticks from Nunivak Island and four
three-pegged sticks labeled the same. Mr. Nelson also collected four
three-pegged sticks, but labels them Kushunuk, Cape Vancouver, on

THROWING-STICKS. 287

the mainland opposite Nunivak (Fig. 17). In these three-pegged
sticks the ring-finger and the little finger are inclosed together. This
should be compared with Mr. Turner’s Saint Michael specimen, in which
the last three fingers are inclosed together (Fig. 14). It remains to be
seen and is worthy of investigation whether crossing a narrow channel
would add a peg to the throwing-stick. One of these Nunivak speci-
mens is left-handed.
BRISTOL BAY TYPE.

The throwing-stick from Bristol Bay resembles in general character-
istics those from Nunivak Island and Cape Vancouver. In outline it
has the shape of the broadsword. Its cross-section is bayonet-shaped.
It has no distinct handle beyond a slight projection from the end. The
thumb-groove is shallow and chamfered on the lower side to fit exactly.
There is a long, continuous notch for the four fingers, in which the index
finger and the middle finger are set off by pegs. There is a depression,
more or less profound, to receive the tips of the fingers. The groove
for the harpoon or spear-shaft is at the lower extremity and runs out
entirely near the index finger. The ivory plug at its lower extremity
is beveled to receive a notch in the end of the spear or harpoon shaft
(Figs. 18-19).

A freshly-made implement, looking as if cut out by machinery, re-
sembling closely those just described, is labeled Kadiak. The con-
stant traffic between Bristol Bay and Kadiak, across the Alaskan pen-
insula, may account for the great similarity of these implements. Fur-
thermore, since the natives in this region and southward have been
engaged for more than a century in fur-sealing for the whites, there is
not the slightest doubt that implements made by whites have been in-
troduced and slightly modified by the wearer to fit his hand.

KADIAK OR UNALASHKA TYPE.

In the National Museum are four throwing-sticks, one of them left-
handed, exactly alike—two of them marked Kadiak and two Unalashka
(Figs. 20-22). They return to the more primitive type of the area from
Kotzebue Sound to Greenland, indicating that the implement culmi-
nated in Norton Sound. In outline this southern form is thin and
straight-sided, and those in possession are all of‘hard wood. The back
is carved in ridges to fit the palm of the hand and muscles of the thumb.
There is no thumb-groove, the eccentric index-finger hole of the North-
ern and Eastern Eskimo is present in place of the central cavity of the
area from Kotzebue Sound to Cape Vancouver, and there is a slight
groove for the middle finger. Marks 5 and 6 are wanting. The shaft-
groove is very slight, even at its lower extremity, and runs out in a few
inches toward the handle. The hook for the end of the weapon resem-
bles that of Nunivak, but is more rounded at the point. Of the Eskimo
of Prince William Sound, the extreme southern area of the Eskimo on
the Pacific, Captain Cook says, in the narrative of his last voyage:
288 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884.

“Their longer darts are thrown by means of a piece of wood about a
foot long, with a small groove in the middle which receives the dart.
At the bottom is a hole for the reception of one finger, which enables
them to grasp the piece of wood much firmer and to throw with greater
foree.” Captain Cook’s implement corresponds exactly to the speci-
mens just described and renders it probable that this thin, parallel-
sided, shallow-grooved throwing-stick, with index-finger hole placed
at one side of the spear-shaft groove, extended all along the southern
border of Eskimoland as far as the Aleuts of Unalashka and Attoo.
In addition to the information furnished by the specimens in hand, Dr.
Stejneger describes a similar stick in use in the island of Attoo. On
the contrary, Mr. Elliott assures me that Aleutian fur-sealers of Priby-
lov Island use throwing-sticks precisely similar to those of Norton
Sound and Nunivak.

This list might be extended further by reference to authorities, but
that is from the purpose of this article and the series of ethnological
papers commenced in this volume. The most perfect throwing-stick of
all is that of the Mahlemut, in Norton Sound, in which are present the
handle, thumb-groove, finger-grooves, and pegs, cavities for the finger-
tips, index finger cavity, shaft-groove, and hook for the harpoon. In
short, all the characteristics present on the rest are combined here.

Classifications of these implements may be varied according to the
organ selected. As to the hook for the- attachment of the weapon, in
Greenland this is on the shaft, in all other parts of the world it is on
the throwing-stick. As to the index finger, there is for its reception,
from Point Barrow to Greenland, an eccentric hole quite through which
the finger passes. From Kotzebue Sound to Norton Sound there is a
central pocket on the back of the weapon, directly under the groove,
for the shaft of the weapon to receive the index finger. From Cape
Vancouver to Bristol Bay an ivory or wooden peg serves this purpose.
At Kadiak and Unalashka the eccentric index-finger hole returns.

It is more than probable that further investigation will destroy some
of the types herein enumerated or merge two more of them into one;
but it will not destroy the fact that in changing from one environment
to another the hyperboreans were driven to modify their throwing-stick.

A still more interesting inquiry is that concerning the origin of the
implement. It is hardly to be supposed that the simplest type, that of
Anderson River, was invented at once in its present form, for the Aus-
tralian form is ruder still, having neither hole for the index finger nor
groove for the weapon shaft. When we recall that the chief benefit
conferred by the throwing-stick is the ability to grasp firmly and launch
truly a greasy weapon from acold hand, we naturally ask, have the
Eskimo any other device for the same purpose? They have. On the
shaft of the light-seal harpoon, thrown without the stick, and on the
heavy, ivory-weighted walrus-harpoon-shaft an ivory hand-rest is lashed
just behind the center of gravity. This little object is often beautifully

THROWING-STICKS. 289

earved and prevents effectually the hand from slipping on the shaft,
even with the greatest lunge of the hunter. From this object to the
throwing-stick the way may be lopg and crooked, or there may be no
way at all. So far as the National Museum is concerned there is noth-
ing to guide us over this waste of ignorance.

THROWING-SLICKS IN THE U. 8S. NATIONAL MUSEUM.

No. Locality. Collector.
eNO A SOUNG. A IABED 2226 « odacsec ae satan nie os owe ee ee E. W. Nelson.
RETR ReRnN I) KU fcc oe oem in ees eee esa me ers aco at earns ooo y= W. A. Mintzner, U.S. N.
NEE CGIT SOTO ANDRES <9 ann ae sain cise eepapws-s-eaiomaceaeenas = _ E. W. Nelson.
ERAN a es ah Saini eis eS nie Demin Selina Supe cmien sina as Do.

Re ee A on or uta rn Sao ata alee we ininin Se a ee ain eee a Suen Do.
24336 | Saint Michael's Sound, Alaska | Lucien M. Turner.
Do.
Do.
W. H. Dall.
in Do. -
Rasbonisky, L. Yukon E. W. Nelson.
COL UCDO Ng Cr ee rn ea Oe eee oer eas Do.
38605 |..-..- Mae et ot 8 Sati wat cicetneratnacaaecarstivee, scams Do.
eos | Bushyunuk, sabotnisky, Alaska ..---.<--.--<---25.0 sco---csece~es Do.
36018 | WPTIBUNOMU EG DIRK fas ons on ecto mee ocictcias Maced ence opeteR ee Do.
49001 | Sabotnisky, Alaska ........-.-- SOS: SREP ene sens Came Do.
49002 |...... Tig. oe en et RT ORE EE os Aes eS SOR ae eo ee Do.
Sar EESELSNRLES Fete cree DO Set SR ee NG iach ono Si cine Seta Catlin.

Ze WVAMNGCYSON JRAVGE <2. 22. 26.2 tone. =o eee Dea he nos owen tae ac | RK. Kennicott.
PMU TSN ANC so ro SA ees cave aaokc dee \omene sestaewectse Siecep | William J. Fisher.
44392 | Cape DT Oe A ANIC nee eats ener ok See nee wate nmocsecce= E. W. Nelson.
RRR ts lathes Me ene ee EN io | William J. Fisher.
16242 Nunivak Island, Alaska | W. H. Dall.

16238 | _- TE ee aE NS ROE CS? IRS - INCA plea acre Do.

74126 Holstei inberg, Greenland George Merchant, jr.
Wi REST Ls ee ee eee een ee ee er Pee W. H. Dall.

89901 | Point Barrow, Alaska .......-...--- | Lieut. P. H. Ray.
UM MMEORICMALEMIRIN GS ohn 2k a A a ee rs few eee woe ee sca tet eoe E. W. Nelson.

24335 Saint Michael’s, Norton's Sound, Alaska .............--..--..--- Lucien M. Turner.
as0l4 |..... Re nes 5 8 See ee ne arate = oh eee Saaaes cases usssceen E. W. Nelson.

ERIE Tela. GASSER to < 222 oe oles a ves ce aca sieceneice s osase cas Dr. T. T. Minor, U.S. R. M.
RM DLIME I MANGRERG 2c 2 cent eecusseecee -sece bimtneteinet ieee sel. E. W. Nelson.
PREG LISLOl Diy VAINSED =... 3.) .cessarsccvs sa s2=s<2e-s22 Ee nyo che ' Charles L. McKay.
mano Ton wAlns ines be. ete eo e  Soeeeie cede setnes W. H. Dall.
IRRITATION ARE fn ae aware San ann aoe awe cek aaa ce | Vincent Colyer,
ieee) meoLeebue sound, Alaska. : 2.600... co2css.ccs ce kcescon.--- --~| E. Ps Horenden.
15641 Nunivak, Alaska ...-... See ay an ee eee Se ee iW. Hi Dallt
16237 |...... Cf pee ee ee ee eo 5 ee Le ASS 4.8 Shes SES | Do.

(2. SION Nid ee, aa a eee SA ge oe ie iby 3 SS Sane le Do.
16076 | Unalashka, Aleutian Islands .........-..-.-------20.0--000+ oes | Sylvanus Bailey.
SMNIENICS Alank toc Seog ee Sein ahha cas ecaess W. H. Dall.
1 Do.
Do.
Do.
Do.

S. Mis. 33, pt. 2—19
PLATE I.

(Mason. Throwing-sticks.)

Fig. 1. Eskimo launching a seal harpoon by means of the throwing-stick. Mr. John.
Murdoch states that the hand is held much lower by the Point Barrow
» Eskimo, the harpoon resting as low as the shoulder, and that the move-

ment of throwing the harpoon is quick, as in casting a fly in fishing.

PLATE LI.

Throwing-sticks.

Report Nat. Mus, i884.—Mason.

*SO14S-SULMOIY] oY} Suisn owrysey

Un EE ITIL iN (a

‘T OW

PLATE II.
(Mason. Throwing-sticks.)

Fig. 2. Greenland type of throwing-stick. The specific characteristics are the broad
form; the scanty grooves for thumb and fingers; the absence of pegs, sepa-
» rate finger grooves, or index perforation; but the most noteworthy are the
two grommets or eyelets io fit ivory pegs on the harpoon-shaft. The pecul-
iar method of strengthening the ends’with ivory pieces should also be noted.
From Holsteinburg, Greenland, 1884. Catalogue number, 74126.
PLATE II.

Report Nat. Mus. 1884.—Mason. Throwing-sticks.

Fic. 2. Greenland throwing-stick, back and front.
PLATE III.
(Mason. Throwing-sticks.)

Fic. 3. Ungava type of throwing-stick. The specific marks are the general outline,
especially the fiddle-head ornament at the bottom; the bend upward at
the lower extremity, the eccentric perforation for the index finger, and the
groove for three fingers. Collected at Ungava, by Lucien M. Turner, 1884.

Museum number, 76700.
PLATE III.

Report Nat. Mus. 1884.—Mason. Throwing-sticks.

Fig. 3. Ungava throwing-stick, front and back.
PLATE IV.

(Mason. Throwing-sticks.)

Fig. 4. Cumberland Gulf type of throwing-stick. The specific marks are the broad
clumsy form, the separate provision for the thumb and each finger, the
bent lower extremity, and the broad furrow for the bird-spear. Accidental
marks are the mending of the handle, the material of the stick, and the
canine tooth for the spur at the bottom of the square groove. Collected
in Cumberland Gulf, by W. A. Mintzer, in 1876. Museum number, 30013.

4 .
PLATE IV.

—

sit eee = SS; - a ose So Se eee = —— = SS SS
= = SSS ee SS Se Se SS Se SSS a ee eee

Throwing-sticks.

Report Nat. Mus. 1884.—Mason.

. :
:
5

»

I a ee er ee

Fic, 4, Cumberland Gulf throwing-stick, back and front,

eee ee eee
PLATE V.
(ian, Throwing-sticks.)

Fig. 5. Anderson River type. The specific marks are the extreme plainness of form,
the lack of accommodations for the thumb and fingers, excepting the eccen-
tric index-finger hole, the poor groove for the harpoon-shaft, and the ab-
sence of a hook or spur at the bottom of this groove. The accidental marks
are cuts running diagonally across the back. In another specimenseen from
the same locality the shaft groove is squared after the manner of the Cum-
berland Gulf type. Collected at the mouth of Anderson River, by R. Ken-
nicott, in 1866. Museum number, 2267.

Fic. 6. Point Barrow type. Thespecific marks are the distinct handle without finger
grooves, the very eccentric index-finger hole, the method of inserting the
spur for the shaft, and the harpoon-shaft groove very shallow above and
deep below. In the specimens shown by Mr. Murdoch there is great uni-
formity of shape. Collected at Point Barrow, by Lieut. P. H. Ray, in 1883.
Museum number, 89902.
PLATE V.

Report Nat. Mus. 1884.—Mason. Throwing-sticks.

:

Anderson River throwing-stick, front and back.

Fic. 5.

Fig. 6. Point Barrow throwing-stick, front and back,
PLATE VI.
(Mason. Throwing-sticks.)

Fic. 7. Kotzebue Sound type. The specific marks are the twisted handle, the broad
shallow shaft groove, and, notably, the pocket for the index-finger tip-
visible on the lower side, but nearly absent from the upper side, and lying
directly under the shaft groove. In the examples before noted all the holes
for the index finger are to one side of this shaft groove. Collected in Kotze-
bue Sound, by E. P. Herendeen, in 1874. Museum number, 16235.

Fic. 8. The Rodgers type, so called because the locality is doubtful. In specific char-
acters it resembles Fig. 7. The differences are the three cavities for finger
tips in the handle, the shaft groove very shallow and running out before
reaching the index-finger cavity, and the delicate hook for the spear shaft
resembling those farther south. Since writing this paper two throwing-
sticks from Sitka have been seen in many respects resembling this form, but
covered all over their surfaces with characteristic Thlinkit mythological
figures, and having iron hooks at the lower end of the shaft groove. Col-
lected by Commodore John Rodgers, in 1867, Museum number, 2533.
PLATE VI.

Report Nat. Mus. 1884.—Mason. Throwing-sticks,

Fig. 7. Kotzebue Sound throwing-stick, front and back.

Fic. 8. The Commodore Rodgers throwing-stick, front and back.
PLATE VII.
(Mason. Throwing-sticks.)

Fig. 9. The Port Clarence and Cape Nome type. The notable characteristics are the
occurrence of an ivory peg in the handle for the middle finger, the very
small size of the handle, and the central index-finger pocket central in po-
sition but quite piercing the stick. Collected by E. W. Nelson, at Cape
Nome, in 1880. Museum number, 44392. i
PLATE VII.

PLATE VIII.
(Mason. Throwing-sticks.)

Fig. 10. Norton Sound type, single-pegged variety. Except in the better finish, this
type resembles the one last described. Collected by L. M. Turner, at Saint
Michael’s Island, in 1876. Museum number, 24338
Report Nat. Mus. 1884.—Mason. Throwing-sticks. PLATE VIII.

Fig. 10. Norton Sound throwing-stick, front and back,
PLATE IX.

(Mason. Throwing-sticks.)

Fig. 11. Norton Sound type, two-pegged variety. In all respects, excepting the
number of pegs, this resembles Figs. 9 and 10. In all of them the peg at
the bottom of the groove is very clumsy. Collected in Norton Sound, by
E. W. Nelson, in 1878. Musenm number, 32995.

Fig. 12. Throwing-stick from Sabotnisky, on the Lower Yukon. It belongs to the
Norton Sound type. The cavity cn the upper side of the handle for the
finger-tips is remarkable for the carving of a bird resembling figures seen
on objects made by the Western Indians of the United States. Collected
by E. W. Nelson, at Sabotnisky, in 1879. Museum number, 36013.
PLATE Ix.

Throwing-sticks.

Report Nat. Mus. 1884.—Mason.

at

Fie. 11. Norton Sound throwing-stick, front and back.

Fig, 12. Sabotnisky throwing-stick, front and back.
PLATE X. .
(Mason. Throwing-sticks.)

Fig. 13. Specimen from Yukon River, belonging to the Northern Sound one-pegge%
variety. Collected by E. W. Nelson, in 1879. Museum number, 38849.
PLATE X.

Throwing-sticks.

Report Nat. Mus, 1884.—Mason.

Fic. 13. Yukon River throwing-stick, front and back.
PLATE XI.
(Mason. Throwing-sticks.)

Fic. 14. Throwing-stick from Saint Michael’s. This specimen is very noteworthy on
account of the absence of the index-finger pocket, a mark characteristic
of the Vancouver type, Fig. 17. If the middle peg of the Vancouver ex-
ample were removed the resemblance would be close, but the clumsy spur
at the bottom of the shaft groove is Norton Sound rather than Nunivak.
Collected by Lucien M. Turner, at Saint Michael’s, in 1876. Museum num-
ber, 24335.

Pe —.
PLATE XI.

g-sticks.

wing

n. Thro

Report Nat. Mus. 1884.—Maso

Fig. 14. Saint Michael’s throwing-stick, front and back,
PLATE XII.
(Mason. Throwing-sticks.)

Fig, 15. Nunivak type. The characteristic marks are the absence of any cavity for
the index finger, the nicely-fitting handle, the disposition of the finger-
pegs, and the delicate point on the ivory spur at the bottom of the shaft
groove. Collected by W. H. Dall, at Nunivak Island, in 1874. Museum
number, 16239. (This specimen is left-handed.)
Report Nat. Mus. 1884.—Mason. Throwing-sticks. PLATE XII.

Fic. 15, Nunivak Island throwing-stick, front and back, left-handed,
PLATE XIII.

(Mason. Throwing-sticks.)

Fia. 16. Specimen from Nunivak, right-handed. ‘The cuts on the front and back are
noteworthy. Collected by W. H. Dall, at Nunivak Island, in 1874. Mu-
seum number, 16238.
Report Nat. Mus. 1884.—Mason. Throwing-sticks. PLATE Xr.

Fic. 16, Nunivak Island throwing-stick, front and back,
PLATE XIV.

(Mason. Throwing-sticks.)

Fig. 17. Specimen from Cape Vancouver. In all respects it is like those of Nunivak,
excepting a peg-rest for the little finger. Collected by E. W. Nelson, at
Cape Vancouver, in 1879. Museum number, 38669.
PLATE XIV.

Report Nat. Mus. 1884.—Mason. Throwing-sticks.

Fig. 17. Cape Vanconver throwing-stick, front and back.
PLATE XV.

(Mason. Throwing-sticks.)

Figs. 18,19. Bristol Bay type. In no essential characters do these sticks differ from
those of Nunivak. The handle is smaller, and they appear to have
been made with steel tools. Fig. 18 collected by C. L. MeKay, at Bristol

* Bay, Alaska, in 1883. Museum number, 72398. Fig. 19 collected by
William J. Fisher, at Kadiak, in 1884. Museum number, 90467.
PLATE XV.

. Throwing-sticks.

Report Nat. Mus. 1884.—Mason

Bristol Bay throwing-stick, front and back.

Fia. 19. Bristol Bay throwing-stick, front and back.

Fia. 18.
PLATE XVI.

(Mason. Throwing-sticks.)

Fig. 20. Unalashkan throwing-stick. It would be better to call this form the
Southern type. The noticeable features in all our specimens are the
parallel sides, the hard material, thinness, the carving for the fingers, but
above all the reappearance of the eccentric cavity for the index finger.
This cavity is not a great perforation, as in the Point Barrow type, but an
eccentric pocket, a compromise between the Northern cavity and that of
the East. Collected by Sylvanus Bailey, at Unalashka, in 1874. “Museum
number, 16076.
XVI.

PLATE XVII.

(Mason. Throwing-sticks.)

Figs. 21, 22. Throwing-sticks of the Southern type. Fig. 21 is left-handed, collected
by Dr. T. T. Minor, at Kadiak, in 1869. Museum number, 7933. Fig.
22 collected by W. H. Dall, at Unalashka, in 1873. Museum number,
12981. At Sitka two specimens were collected, unfortunately not fig-
ured, with the following characters laid down in the beginning of this
paper: 1. Short, very narrow and deep, and carved all over with de-
vices. 2. No handle distinct from the body. 3,4,5,6. All wanting.
7. The index-finger cavity is near the center of the back, very like a
thimble. Indeed this is a very striking feature. §&. The shaft groove
occupies only the lower half of the upper surface. 9. Thespur for the
end of the weapon shaft is a long piece of iron like a knife-blade driven
into the wood, with the edge toward the weapon shaft.
PLATE XVII.

eport Nat. Mus. 1884.—Mason.

ving-stick, front and back, left handed.

ving-Stick, front and back.

-
iS
~
a
ce ~-
2 a
as
=
A @
a
— po
=
3a
- =)
»n&
6
==
Fa
II.—BASKET-WORK OF THE NORTH AMERICAN ABORIGINES.

By Oris T. MASON.

‘‘ Barbara de pictis veni bascauda Britannis,
Sed me jam mavult dicere Roma suum.”
—MARTIAL, xiv, 99.

The study of the minutest technique in the distribution of aboriginal
arts is very necessary in making up our opinions on questions of An-
thropology. The archeologist is frequently caused to halt in the re-
construction of ancient society by his ignorance of the arts of the sav-
ages around him. This is especially true of an art which had its cul-
mination in savagery or barbarism, and which began to decline at the
touch of civilization, or at least to give place to higher types of the same
art. For the discussions of problems that have arisen in the past the
data then in hand have been sufficient; but as the investigations of
social progress become more intricate the demands for greater detail in
the observation of anthropological phenomena around us is imperative.

I have lately had occasion to examine all the baskets in the National
Museum, and the results of this research may not be uninteresting as
a contribution to exact technology in an art which may be called par
excellence a savage art.

In a basket there are several characteristics to be observed, which
will enable us to make a classification of the objects themselves and to
refer them to their several tribal manufacturers. These characteristics
are the material, the frame-work, the methods of weaving, the coiling or
sewing, the decoration, their use, &e.

The too] almost universally used in their manufacture is a bone awl
or pricker and the makers are the women. Of the manipulation of the
material previously to the weaving little is known.

In the drawings accompanying this paper the actual size of the speci-
mens is indicated dy a series of inch marks in the margin. The inches
on the standard line are shown by spaces between dots. In order to
indicate exactly the manner of weaving, a square, usually an inch in
dimension, is taken from a portion of the surface wherein all the meth-
ods of manipulation occur. This square inch is enlarged sufficiently to
make the structure comprehensible. This plan enables us to show form
and ornamentation in the whole figure as well as the method of treat-

ment in the enlarged inch.
291
292 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884.
ALEUTIAN ISLANDS.

Mr. William H. Dall has contributed to the National Museum a large
number of Aleut grass wallets, conoidal in form when filled (Fig.1). The
warp is of coarse straws, radiating from the center of the bottom. The ;
covering or woof is made by plaiting or twisting two straws in a coil or |
twine, crossing them between each pair of warp straws. It is as if a
twine of two strands had a straw or osier passed down through every
half turn (Fig. 2). This plait or twine may be driven close home so as
to be absolutely water-tight, or the weaver may leave spaces from one
twine to the next wide enough to make a net. <A very pretty effect is
produced by these Aleutian basket-weavers by splitting the warp
straws and twining woof straws around two of the half straws. joining
1 by 2, 3 by 4, 5 by 6, at one round, and the next twine inclosing 0 by
1, 2 by 3, 4 by 5, and soon. This produces a series of lozenge open-
ings (Fig. 2). The split warp strands are often crossed to form X-
shaped openings, or carried straight so as to produce parallelograms,

I have observed the same effect in Peruvian mummy cloth, but a greater
variety of network is there produced by alternating the rectangular and
lozenge meshes in bands varying in width.

In the “ Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge,” No. 318, plate 7,

Mr. Dall figures and describes the matting of the Aleutian Islanders
found in the caves in the Catherina Archipelago.

The method of manipulation in the matting is the same as that just
described for the basketry of the Aleuts, and the delicacy of workman-
ship is most admirable. This method of weaving by means of twining
two woof strands around a series of warp strands occurs in many places,
and wili hereafter in this paper receive the name of “ twined basketry.”

In a covered basket made of split bamboo from the Malabar coast the
fastening off at the top of the basket and the weaving of the cover have
a three-stranded twine. At every third of a turn the splint that is in-
ward is hooked or passed behind the warp splint at that point. This
produces a very smooth effect on the inside and a rough surface without.

The mats of the Aleuts are made of the fiber of the Hlymus* treated
as hemp. The ornamentation on the outside of the mats and baskets
is formed by embroidering on the surface with strips of the straw in- |
stead of the macerated fiber which forms the body of the fabric. The
embroidery stitches in these, as in most savage basketry, does not always
pass through the fabric, but are more frequently whipped on, the stitches
passing always between the two woof strands, as in aresene embroidery,
showing only on the outside. Mr. Dall justly praises the marvelous
nicety of this Aleutian grass-weaving, both in mats and basketry. n

There is no Chinese or Japanese basket in the National Museum show-
ing this plaited weft. The grass of these Aleutian wallets is exceed-

* Elymus mollis, Sitka, Norton Sound, Kotzebue Sound ; £. arenarius, Norton Sound,
to Point Barrow ; E. Sibiricus, Sitka. (See Rothrock, Smithsonian Report, 1867.)

ABORIGINAL BASKET-WORK. 293

ingly fine, the plaiting done with exquisite care, the stitches being often
as fine as 20 to the inch, and frequently bits of colored worsted are em-
broidered around the upper portion, giving a pleasing effect. The bor-
ders are braided in open work from the ends left in the weaving, as
follows (Fig. 1):

At some point on the border, when the solid part of the wallet is
finished, the weaver bends two warp strands in opposite directions and
gives each a twist with its next neighbor. These two are braided with
the next warp thread; these three with the next. Now, start at a
proper distance from the first point of departure and braid both ways,
as before. These braids will meet and form a set of scallops around
the edge, fastened at the ends and loose in the middle. Also, at the
apex of each scallop will be a lot of warp straws, braided indeed at the
base but loose for any required length. ‘The weaver commences with
any set of these to make a four-ply braid, catching up the next set and
braiding them in as she went along, and fastening off a set as each new
set is taken up. The upper border is thus a continuous braid, con-
nected at regular intervals with the apices of the braided scallops.
When the braider reaches her starting point she catches one braid into
another, in a rather clumsy manner, and coutinues to braid a long four-
ply string, which, carried in and out the scallops, forms a drawing-
string.

ALASKAN Esktmo.—Two types of baskets are found in close prox-
imity in the neighborhood of Norton Sound—the twined and the coiled.
In the former (Fig. 5) the treatment is precisely the same as in those
of Aleutian Islands, but the Eskimo wallet is of coarser material and
the plaiting is a little more rudely done.

The basketry of this type, however, is very strong, and useful for
holding food, weapons, implements of all kinds, and various other arti-
cles. When not in use, the wallets can be folded up into a small space
like a grocer’s paper bag (Fig. 3). In the bottoms of the wallets of this
class the weft is very open, leaving spaces at least one-half inch wide
uncovered. The borders are produced by braiding four strands of sea
grass into the extremities of the warp strands.

Ornamentation is produced by darning or whipping one or more rows
of colored grass after the body is formed—not necessarily after the
whole basket is completed, for each row of whipping may be put on
just after the row of coil on which it is based (Fig. 4). Another plan
of attaching the ornamentation is very ingenious but not uncommon.
Two strands of colored straw or grass are twined just as in the body of
the basket, and at every half turn one of the strands is hooked under a
stitch on the body of the basket by a kind of aresene work. This or-
nament has a bold relief effect on the outside and.is not seen at all on
the inside.

The coiled variety of the Eskimo basketry, mentioned above (Fig. 5),
consists of a uniform bunch of grass sewed in a continuous coil by a
whip stitch over the bunch of grass and through just a few bits of grass
294 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884.

in the coil just beneath, the stitch looping under a stitch of the lower
coil. When this work is carefully done, as among the Indians of New
Mexico, Arizona, and California, and in some exquisite examples in
bamboo from Siam and in palm-leaf from Nubia, the most beautiful re-
sults are reached; but the Eskimo basket-maker does not prepare her
coils evenly, sews carelessly, passing the threads sometimes through
the stitches just below and sometimes between them, and does not work
her stitches home (Fig. 6). Most of these baskets in the collection of
K. W. Nelson have a round bit of leather in the bottom to start upon
(Fig. 5, b). The shape is either that of the uncovered band-box or of
the ginger-jar. Especial attention should be paid to this form of stitch-
ing, as it occurs again in widely-distant regions in a great variety of
material and with modifications producing striking effects.

The association of this coiled form of basket-making with the marks
on the most primitive types of pottery-making has*been frequently
noticed by archeologists. It is also well known that the modern sav-
ages of our Southwest build up their pottery in this manner, either allow-
ing the coils to remain or carefully obliterating them by rubbing, first
with a wet paddle of wood, and afterwards, when the vessel is dry, with
a very fine-grained stone.

The Eskimo women employ in basket-making a needle made of a bird
bone ground to a point on a stone (Fig. 100). Fine tufts of reindeer hair,
taken from between the hoofs, are extensively used in ornamentation,
especially in the Aleutian area.

TINNE INDIANS.

A few specimens of basketry from the vast Athapascan area contig-
uous to the Eskimo belong to the coiled type (Fig. 7). Instead of a
bunch of grass, however, a rod of willow or spruce root is earried
around ina coil and whipped on with a continuous splint of similar
material (Fig. 8). The stitches of the coil in process of formation,
passing regularly between those just below and locking into them,
alternate with them and give a somewhat twilled effect to the surface*
(Fig. 8). If now a strip of bast or grass be laid on the top of the osier
or spruce root coil and carried around with it, and the sewing pass al-
ways over these two and down between the bast and the osier of the
coil below, a much closer ribbed effect will be produced. Several
specimens of this kind of coiled basketry, in which a strip of tough
material is laid on top of the coiled osier, were collected at the mouth
of the Mackenzie River by McFarlane and Ross, and Mr. Murdoch has
shown me a basket similarly wrought, from Point Barrow, which he
thinks many have been obtained by barter from the Tinné Indians in
the vicinity. The ornamentation on one specimen of this type is very

*The working of this stitch is described and figured by Paul Schumacher in XII
Report of Peabody Museum, p. 524: the coils are not, however, interlocked in all cases;
that is, if the foundation rods were pulled out the Benes would separate and the
whole structure come apart in some cases.

ee eee

ee
ABORIGINAL BASKET-WORK. 295

eurious and elaborate (Fig. 9). The basket-maker had a number of
little loops of bark and quill of different color prepared, and every time
a stitch was about to be taken the lower end of one of these loops was
caught over the splint thread and held down. The next stitch fast-
ened the two ends of the loops home (that is, each stitch caught the lower
part of a new loop and fastened down both ends of the preceding one
after it had been doubled back), giving a series of imbrications (Fig. 10).
On this specimen are between 3,000 and 4,000 separate loops sewed.
_ This is one of the most striking examples of savage patience and skill,
and must have occupied in its construction many hours of a renowned
artist.

Mr. Jones tells us, in the Smithsonian Report (1856, p. 523), that the
Hong Kutchin Indians, who live on the headwaters of the Yukon River,
make basket-kettles of tamarack roots woven very neatly and orna-
mented with hair and dyed poreupine quills. The water is boiled by
means of hot stones thrown in. For dyeing the roots and quills they
use berries and a kind of grass growing in the swamps.

In looking at these coiled baskets, standing geographically so far re-
moved from the Apache and Navajo country, one is reminded that the
migration which separated these branches of a great stock may have
been northward and not southward, and that the Tinné may have
carried with them the art of making coiled baskets learned in a region
where its beauty culminates.

CHILKAHT INDIANS.

The basket work of these Indians is superb. Every one who sees
it is struck with its perfection of workmanship, shape, and ornamen-
tation. All the specimens of the National Museum collection are of
the band-box shape; but they can be doubled up flat like a grocer’s
bag (Fig. 11). The material is the young and tough root of the spruce,
split, and used either in the native color or dyed brown or black.
The structure belongs to the twined or plaited type before mentioned,
and there is such uniformity and delicacy in the warp and woof that a
water-tight vessel is produced with very thin walls. In size the wallets
vary from a diminutive trinket basket to a capacity of more than a
bushel. All sorts of lovely designs in bands, crosses, rhombs, chev-
rons, triangles, and grecques are produced thus: First, the bottom is
woven plain in the color of the material. Then in the building up of
the basket bands of plain color, red and black, are woven into the
structure, having the same color on both sides. Afterwards little
‘squares or other plain figures are sewed on in aresene, that is, only
half way through, giving the most varied effect on the outside, while
the inside shows only the plain colors and the red and black bands.
The wild wheat straws are used in this second operation, whipped over
and over along the outer threads of the underlying woof, or two straws
are twined around in the manner explained avove (page 293, bottom).
296 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884.

No more attractive form and ornamentation of basketry are to be
seen than those produced by the Indians of this Thlinket stock extend-
ing from Mount Saint Elias to Queen Charlotte Archipelago, including

Sitka.
HAIDA INDIANS.

These Indians live on Queen Charlotte Archipelago and adjacent
islands. Their basket work differs in form from that of the Chilkahts,
or Thlinkets, owing probably to the demands of trade; but the twined
method is followed (Fig. 12) and the ornamentation is produced in a
similar manner. The quality of the ware, however, is a little degener-
ated and more gaudy (Fig. 15). The Haidas are very skillful in imi-
tating all sorts of chinaware in basketry, such as teapots, sugar bowls,
toilet articles, table mats, bottles, and hats. They also introduce curved
lines and spirals with good effect. The basketry hats of spruce roots,
the most striking of their original designs, are made by the twining
process (Fig. 14). The crown is twined weaving of the most regular
workmanship and the fabric is perfectly water-tight when thoroughly
wet (Fig.15). An element of ornamentation is introduced into the brims
by which a series of diamond patterns cover the whole surface (Fig. 16).
This decoration is produced thus: Beginning at a certain point the
weaver includes two warp strands in a half twist, instead of one; then
makes two regular twists around single-warp strands. The next time
she comes around she repeats the process, but her double stitch is one in
advance of or behind its predecessor. A twilled effect of any shape
may be thus produced, and rhombs, triangulated fillets, and chevrons
made to appear on either surface.

The “fastening off” of the work is done either by bending down the
free ends of the warp and shoving them out of sight under the stitches
of the twisted web, or a braid of four strands forms the last row (Fig.
16), set on so that the whole braid shows outsidé and only one row of
strands shows inside. The ends’of the warp splints are then cropped
close to the braid. This appearance of the entire four-stranded braid
on the external surface is produced by passing each of the four strands
alternately behind one of the warp sticks as the braiding is being done
(Fig. 16). (Compare this with what was previously said about the bas-
ket from the Malabar coast, page 292.)

Special attention should be paid to the painted orn namentation on
these hats (Figs. 14 and 15) showing head, wings, feet, and tail of the
duck, laid on in black and red in the conventional manner of ornamenta-
tion in vogue among the Haidas and used in the reproduction of their
various totems on all of their houses, wood and slate carv ings, and the
ornamentation of their implements. *

*A very ers instance of survival is to be seen in the rag carpets of these
Indians. The missionaries have taught the women to save up their rags and to
cover their floors with pretty mats. They are allowed to weave them in theirown
way, however, and the result is a mat constructed on the ancient twined model, pre-
cisely as the weaving is done on the mats and hats.

ABORIGINAL BASKET-WORK. 297

The method of manufacture of Haida twined basketry is shown by
Mr. J. G. Swan in a specimen collected expressly for the National
Museum (Figs. 17-19). Mr. Swan says, “ This style of making bas-
kets differs from that of Cape Flattery. There the women sit on the
ground and weave baskets and mats, both of which rest on the ground.”

With the Haidas the mats are suspended on a frame and the baskets
supported on a stick as in Fig. 17. The black color of the spruce root
used in making ornamental patterns is produced by soaking it in the
mud. Fig. 18 shows the bottom of the basket made by the twining
process. The border of the bottom is marked off by a row of double
weaving or a twine built outside the body of the basket just as in the
Eskimo basket before described (page 295). A section of the structure
is shown in Fig. 19 where the border ends.

BILHOOLAS, ETC.

Along the coast of British Columbia the great cedar ( Thuja gigantea)
grows in the greatest abundance, and its bast furnishes a textile ma-
terial of the greatest value. Here in the use of this pliable material
the savages seem for the first time to have thought of checker-weaving
(Fig. 20). Numerous mats, wallets, and rectangular baskets are pro-
duced by the plainest crossing of alternate strands varying in width
from a millimeter to an inch (Fig. 21). Ornamentation is effected
both by introducing different-colored strands and by varying the width
of the warp or the woof threads. In several examples the bottom of
the basket is bordered with one or more lines of the twined or plaited
style of weaving, to give greater stability to the form. Cedar mats of
great size and made with the greatest care enter as extensively into
the daily life of the Indians of this vicinity as do the buffalo robes into
that of the Dakota Indians. They may be seen upon the floors, sleep-
ing berths, before the doors of the houses, and they are also used as
sails for their boats and wrapped around the dead.

It is not astonishing that a material so easily worked should have
found its way so extensively in the industries of this stock of Indians,
Neither should we wonder that the checker pattern in weaving should
first appear on the west coast among the only peoples possessing a ma-
terial eminently adapted to this form of manipulation. It is only an-
other example of that beautiful harmony between man and nature which
delights the anthropologist at every step of his journey.

MAKAHS AND CHIHALIS.

We are now introduced to still another style of basketry, very primi-
tive but capable of very delicate treatment. I do not know of its ex-
istence outside of the Nutka stock living on the southwest side of
Vancouver Island and on the northwest corner of Washington Terri-
tory, except in two cases, to be presently mentioned. It may be called
the “fish-trap style,” since without doubt the finer basketry is the
298 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884.

lineal descendant of the rude wicker fish-trap. Imagine a number of
stakes driven into the ground pretty close together. A horizontal pole
is laid against them in the rear, and by the wrappings of a withe
around the pole and each upright stake diagonally on the outside and
vertically on the inside, a spiral fastening is produced (Fig. 23). This
stitch crosses the two fundamentals in front at an angle and the hori-
zontal frame- -piece in the rear at right angles, or vice versa, and the
lacing may always run-in the same direction, or the alternate rows of
lacing may run in opposite directions, as in Fig. 23. As a matter of
fact, in soft and pliable material this operation constantly pushes the
uprights forward a little, giving to the fabric an appearance of the
back of a watch (Figs. 24-26).

The Clallam Indians of the Selish stock make a carrying basket in
this manner (Figs. 22, 23), the frame (warp and woof) sticks being about
one-eighth inch in diameter, lashed in place with split ozier or root.
The Japanese also make a fish-trap similarly, with the exception that
the coiled splint passes alternately backward and forward, so that if the
horizontal were pulled out the fabric would tumble to pieces. The ob-
long oval shields of bamboo, made by the Bateke negroes of the Lower
Congo, imitate this structure exactly. The frame of the shield is an
oblong hoop on which are stretched splints of rattan, running longitudi-
nally on one side and transversely on the other, crossing at right angles
except at the plano-convex space at the ends. Splints of bamboo, about
one-eighth inch wide, are woven into these cross strands precisely after
the manner of the Makah basketry, the consequence being a series of
square stitches on the back and diagonal stitches on the front, closely
fitting, and coving the surfacecompletely. Now, if the frame were cedar-
bark threads about the size of pack threads, and the lashing of white
sea-grass, we would have the Makah basket (Figs. 24-26). It takes
three sets of threads (Fig. 25), the radiated warp, the coiled woof, and
the spiral-binding thread, to finish the compound. No other area is
known to the writer where this peculiar pattern is wrought into deli-
cate fabrics. The Makahs belong to the Nutka stock, most of which are
on the southwest shore of Vancouver Island, including the great group
of Aht tribes. No Aht basketry is in the Museum, but it would be ex-
tremely interesting to trace this unique method of basket-weaving
among all the tribes of the stock. Bands of serrate patterns are pro-
duced in color by using different wrapping threads, the principal one
being grass dyed black in mud.

There is one specimen of the vedar-bark mat from Vancouver Island —

in which the shreded bark which serves for warp is fastened at inter-
vals of about an inch by a chain-stitch instead of the twine. This must
have been a modern innovation; at least there is not another evidence
in this collection of savage acquaintance with the chain-stiteh.

The Clallams, adjoining the Makahs, but of the Selish or Flathead
stock, in addition to the fish-trap or bower style, are the first going

ABORIGINAL BASKET-WORK. 299

southward to produce a twilled pattern over the entire surface of the
vessel (Figs. 27, 28). A slight exception to this statement is the orna-
mentation on the brim of the Haidarain-hat. It occurs again in Mexico
and among the Cherokees, Choctaws, Chetimachas, and in South Amer-
ica. A moment’s reflection will show that the administration of the
three-ply method of the Makahs is a derivation of the plicate or twisted
sort. If either strand of a twist, the inner or the outer, be drawn °
straight, the plait will become the fish-trap pattern. In most of the
Makah baskets the straight piece is laid inside the uprights, but there
are examples in which it is laid outside resembling the regular plaited
stitch. The Indians of this coast prior to the advent of the white man
made heavy and beautiful blankets of the wool of the Rocky Mountain
sheep, and of the hair of animals killed in the chase, dyed in different
colors. The patterns are all geometric, and are, in fact, woven mosaics,
each figure being inserted separately by twisting two woof threads back-
ward and forward around the warp strands. Scarcely ever does the
twine extend in stripes all the way across the blanket in a direct line.

Like the Haidas the Makahs prepare a great many forms of basketry
for trade. A great variety of colors is used in the decoration. The
hatch surface, produced by the use of three strands in weaving, gives
to the basketry of this type a very unique and pleasing effect. Fig.
25 represents a common specimen of Makah basketry.

Fig. 29 shows a bottle covered with ornamental basketry. In the
bottom the radiating warp is inclosed in the twined weft. The warp
threads are carried over the surface of the bottle, crossing each other
and producing rhomboids, after the manner of the Japanese basketry.
The twined coil (Fig. 31) connects the crossings of the warp threads.
This is a very interesting specimen, inasmuch as the bower or fish-trap
style is replaced by the regular twined weaving of the Indians farther
north.

Figs. 32, 33 represent a specimen from the Clallams, which seems to be
an example of commerce. The coil is sewed on conveniently, and the
ornamentation upon the sides is produced by laying the straw or quill of

different color upon the regular stitching, and sewing it on one stitch
over two original stitches. This is a very beautiful and strongly made
specimen,

OREGON AND CALIFORNIA TRIBES.

Along the western coast of the United States from Puget Sound to
Lower California are many separate stocks of Indians, quite easily
recognized by the material and ornamentation of their basketry, but fol-
lowing two fundamental structures—the twined and the whipped coil.
Some of these tribes are called Diggers because they subsist on roots,
seeds, etc. It would be more reasonable to call them “ basket Indians.”
The Klamath and the McLeod Indians of Northern California use the
twined method, making water-tight and flexible baskets of great beauty
(Fig. 34). The ornamentation is produced by the alternation of black
300 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884.

and white threads in stripes and geometric figures of endless variety
(Fig. 35). A very pretty coarse wallet is produced by using vertical
rushes for the foundations and twining bands of two or three rows at
intervals of a few inches.

The coiled and whipped structure is employed by many tribes through-

out California (Figs. 36, 37, from Hel River tribe). In most of them the
‘double coil is used; that is, two rods or osiers are carried around, or
an osier overlaid with a strip of bark or yucca (See Tinné Indian
baskets, page 294.) The sewing is over both and down under only the
upper one of the coil just beneath. Some of the baskets of this area are
of the greatest beauty, both in form, texture, and in ornamentation.

The principal shapes are the inverted truncated cone, the ginger jar,
and the shallow dish or tray. From willow twigs and pine roots they
weave large, round mats for holding acorn flour; various sized, flattish,
squash-shaped baskets, water tight; deep conical ones of about a
bushel capacity to be carried on their backs; skull caps, which are also
drinking cups, worn by the squaws. They ornament the baskets by
weaving in black rootlets or bark in squares, diamonds, and zigzags.
(Powers: Cont. N. A. Ethnology, III, p. 47.)

On Tule River long stalks of Sporobolus are used for warps. For
thread pine root is used for white, willow bark for the brown, and some

unknown bark for the black. The needle is a sharpened thigh-bone of

ahawk. (Id., p. 377.)

The Modok women formerly made a baby-basket of willow-work, in
shape resembling a tailor’s slipper or an old-fashioned watch- holder,
and having various devices to shade the face. The warp is of straight
rods, the woof consists of bands of twined work, just enough to hold the
warp together, most of the space being left open. Someof the Northern
California tribes make a baby-basket similar in shape to the Sioux and
Cheyenne beaded cradle-boards.

The Californian Indians from Tulé Lake to the Gulf of California
use the greatest care in securing uniformity and fineness to the founda-
tion and the stitch. Their skill will compare favorably with that
of the Siamese, who do very similar work. The needle is the long
bone of a bird or mammal, the joint remaining for a handle and the
point being forward of the central hard portion of the bone. The
female basket-weaver pierces a hole in the fabrie at the proper point,
draws the thread of grass or woody fibre through the aperture, biting
the end to sharpen her thread if necessary, and presses the stitches
home with the bone needle.

The ornamentation is in color, pattern, and accessories. The natu-

ral color of the material is the basis of the basket. A very dark:

brown and a very light brown colored straw is ‘worked into chevrons
and zigzag lines in endless variety. <A strip of reed or grass is some-
times carried around on the outside, concealed by two, three, or more
stitches, then overlapping the same number, forming a checkered

4
i
{
:
ABORIGINAL BASKET-WORK. 301

band. Beads are also laid on, and bits of worsted, even, making animal
forms. The most beautiful ornament is that produced by feathers, one
being laid on for each stitch, forming an imbricated covering, conceal-
ing the entire surface. When parti-colored feathers are used the effect
is very wonderful.

SAHAPTIN STOCK.

In the mountains of Idaho live the Nez Pereés Indians belonging to
the Sahaptin stock. The Museum possesses a few samples of their
basketry. Figs. 38, 39, represents a flexible wallet made of the bast of
Indian hemp (Apocynum cannabinwn). There is nothing remarkable
in the manufacture of this specimen. The weaving belongs to the
twined type.

The body color is the natural hue of the material. Nearly the whole
surface, however, is covered with ornamentation in patterns of brown,
green, red, and black. This ornamental portion is produced by the
Sewing of embroidery over the entire surface of the bag, the stitches
passing only half way through, so that the fabric is plain on one side
and ornamented on the other.

THE GREAT INTERIOR BASIN.

Leaving now the west coast, we may examine the basketry of the
Great Interior Basin, including that of the Shoshones, the Apaches,
the Pueblos, and the tribes living around the mouth of the Colorado.

Shoshones.—This great stock of Indians employ both structures, the
twined and the whipped coil. The plaited stitch is used in the conoidal
basket hats or mush bowls (Figs. 40, 41), the roasting trays (Fig. 42),
and the fanning or seed gathering trays (Fig. 43), and wands (Fig. 44).
The coiled and whipped structure is used in the pitched water bottles
(Fig. 45), and the basket trays (lig. 47).

Conoidal basket hats are made of willow splints or Rhus, the warp
radiating from the apex, the woof splints being carried around and
twined in pairs, in the manner so frequently described (Fig. 40).
The woof is so thoroughly driven home as to give the appearance of
the simple osier of the east. Ornamentation is produced by using one
or more rows of black splints, dyed with the Sueda diffusa.

The roasting trays are shaped like a scoop, rimmed with a large
twig (ig. 42). The warp is made of parallel twigs laid close together,
and held in place by cross plaitings about half an inch apart. It is
said that Shoshones place the seeds of wild plants in these trays
with hot stones and thus roast them. The specimen figured is much
charred on the upper side. Dr. Edward Palmer also describes their
use in fanning the hulls and epidermis of the Pinus monophylla seed.
«The Indians remove the hulls by putting a number of nuts on a metate
and rolling a flat pestle backward and forward until the hulls are
302 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884.

loosened. The mass is then put in a flat basket tray and the hulls
blown off.” (Am. Nat. 1878, p. 594.)

In Schoolcraft’s History of Indian Tribes, pt. 5, pls. 26, 27, will be seen
Indian women gathering seeds in conical baskets, beating the plants
with a spoon-shaped wand towards the basket, held in the left hand,
with the mouth of the basket just under the plants (Figs. 43, 44). The
baskets are made in every respect like the conoidal hats and the fans
are made of twigs closely woven on the same pattern.

The water bottles belong to the coiled and whipped structure. As
before mentioned, this style can be made coarse or fine, according to
the material and size of the coil and the outer thread. If two twigs of
uniform thickness are carried around, the stitch will be hatchy and
open; but if one of the twigs is larger than the other, or if yucca or
other fiber replace one of them and narrower sewing material be used,
the texture will be much finer. These bottles differ in shape; one class
has round bottoms, another long, pointed bottoms; one has wide
mouths, another small mouths; one class has a little osier handle on
the side of the mouth like a pitcher, but the majority have one or two
loops of wood, horse-hair, or osier fastened on one side for a carrying
strap. All of these are quite heavy, having been dipped in pitch.
The same form is found among the Apaches, Mohaves, Mokis, and Rio
Grande Pueblos; but it is not improbable that they were obtained from
the Utes in barter or by purchase.

The basket trays of the Utes do not differ essentially in general style
from those of the Gila River tribes, but they are much coarser. Among
the coiled basket trays in the collection accredited to the Utes are in-
deed two styles, but one of them resembles so much those of their
Apache neighbors on the south as to raise the suspicion that they were
obtained by barter. However that may be, we are permitted to call
them the Ute pattern and the Apache pattern. The Ute basket tray is
made like the Ute water-bottle. A bundle of grass stems, two, three,
or four, are coiled around and sewed to the upper twig of the coil just
below. By the way in which the coil turns it is easy to tell whether
the upper or the under surface was towards the sewer, the work always
necessarily moving to the left hand. As a matter of fact, most of these
coarse baskets were built up with the concave towards the workman,
that side presenting a more finished appearance. On the other hand,
the finer baskets, here called Apache, are coiled the other way. ‘The
foundation is a slender bundle of yucca fiber or a twig and yucca leaf
combination, which enables the workman to produce a compact water-
tight stitch similar to that in the California baskets just described.
The Apaches understand thoroughly the use of this stitch, and their
ornamental patterns in black have the greatest variety. The ornament
of one specimen in the collection, supposed to be Apache, but possibly
made by some California tribes, consists of a series of spiral bands
ABORIGINAL BASKET-WORK. 303

widening from the bottom towards the rim; in each of the spiral bands
a row of five men extends from midway in the basket to the upper
edge, their places below being taken by smaller patterns* (Figs. 49-69).

Moki baskets —Of the seven Moki pueblos six speak the Ute lan-
guage. It will not be surprising also to see them making similar
baskets. This is partly true and partly false. The Moki have both
coiled and plaited or twined baskets. Their twined baskets are few in
number. Their coiled baskets, except the water-bottles, are of a per-
fectly unique pattern. In addition, they use one method of work com-
mon enough ip other parts of the world, but thus far unknown west of
the Rocky Mountains. I speak of the common single-coiled osier or
splint employed by all eastern Indians and by the negro and white
basket-maker. The Moki also imitate the checker weaving of the Bella
Bellas, and the twilled weaving of the Clallams.

The plaited ware of the Mokis are a few peach-baskets, made in the
Same manner as the Ute hats, but there is enough dissimilarity of form
to. give the Moki the credit of inventing this peculiar style (Figs. 66-79).

The coiled and sewed ware, aside from the water-bottles and a few
bread-trays, which are evidences rather of barter than manufacture, de-
mand our special attention. Among the Mokis and nowhere else, so far
as the Museum is concerned, except in Nubia, are to be found thick-
coiled baskets called sacred meal-trays, having about the concavity of
old fashioned pie-plates, and varying in diameter from a few inches to
over twenty. A bundle of grass or the nerves of the yucca leaf, from
half an inch to an inch in diameter, is coiled around and sewed with
strips of yucca leaf of uniform width, rarely exceeding the twelfth
of an inch. The thread is passed regularly around the coil, drawn
tightly, and passed between threads and through a few fibers of the
grass in the coil beneath. It is difficult to tell whether any pains is
taken to lock the threads of the coils or not. At first the coil is very
small and widens as the dish enlarges. These plates are all made to be
looked at inside, the coiling being invariably towards the left on the
upper surface. I have not seen one exception. ‘True to this instinct,
when a Moki constructs a hat of the same material to please some white
man, he makes the convex of the hat correspond to the concave of his
tray, the outside of the hat being thus rough and the inside smooth.
The ornamentation of these trays is produced as follows: One side of

[*Nore,—Says Dr. E. Palmer: ‘‘In Utah, Arizona, Southern California, and New
Mexico the Indians depend solely on the Rhus aromatica, var. tribola (squawberry ) for
materiai out of which to make their baskets. It is far more durable and tougher
than the willow, which is not used by these Indians. The twigs are soaked in water
to soften them and to loosen the bark, which is scraped off by the females. The twigs
are then split by the use of the mouth and hands. Their baskets are built up by a
succession of small rolls of grass, over which these twigs are firmly and closely bound.
A bone awl is used tu make the holes under the rim of the grass for the split twigs.
Baskets made thus are very durable, will hold water, and are often used to cook in,
hot stones being dropped in until the food is done.” (Am. Nat. 1875, p. 598). ]
304 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884,

the stripped yucca leaf is dark green, the other light green and white
striped fading into yellow. Now by deftly turning the thread where it
passes through the coil in sewing a variety of shades is produced, as
in shaded worsted work. Again, by dyeing the threads black, blue,
red, yellow, and combining color effects with the natural shades of the
leaf, the most beautiful ornamentation is produced. There is some
method in the patterns which usually commences from a blank center
of a few coils with four brown spots of six stitches each. From these
fundamental points all sorts ot geometric figures are produced by the
simple process of sewing with different-colored threads.

The coiled and decorated ozier bread-trays of the Mokis are made, I
have been informed, at only oue pueblo, Oraibi. The frame consists of
two cross sets of twigs, from 12 to 16 in each bar of the cross. These are
firmly held together at their intersection by sewing and plaiting. They
then are spread out radially, the space being from time to time sup-
plemented by additional twigs. The workman provides himself with
bunches of white, yellow, orange, purple, black, blue, and green twigs
only a few inches in length. These he proceeds to weave into patterns
of the greatest beauty, even imitating cloud effects seen on Japanese
screens, using short or long twigs as the occasion demands, hiding the
ends between the ribs and the filling of the preceding coils. The process
is the same as that employed by the Navahos in making the clouded
blankets, and by the northwest coast Indians in their ancient mountain-
sheep blankets. The greatest variety of ornament is produced, but, as
in the coiled work, the center is always plain. Under the influence of
trade, however, the ancient patterns are giving way to those demanded
by the purchasers. As the patterns are really mosaics and could be
picked out it will be easiiy seen that the figures on the back and front
do not exactly conform, the corresponding square on the back being
always one space to the right or left of the same in front.

The Moki common twig basket is as rough as rough can be; the same
’ is true of the flat mats used about their dwellings. They are woven in
the same manner as the market baskets which we are accustomed to
see every day. The twilled effect on the flat mats is produced by over-
lapping two warp strands by each of the woof strands.

Yucca baskets and frays of a very coarse character are made by the
Mokis, woven sometimes in plain checker, at other times in twill. Al
though the material is very coarse, quite pleasing effects are produced
by the two sides of the leaf and by the different shades of the same
side.

Zuni basketrya—Although one may see at Zuni all sorts of baskets,
the most of them, including coiled or whipped trays, Moki coiled and
twig basket trays, none of these are made there. The only basket of
the Zunis is their little, very rough twig peach basket, hardly worthy
of notice except for its ugliness and simplicity (Figs. 80-82),
ABORIGINAL BASKET-WORK. 305
SOUTHERN INDIAN BASKETRY.

In the States of North Carolina, South Carolina, Georgia, Florida,
Alabama, Mississippi, and Louisiana are many Indians still living, rem-
nants of the Cherokees, Choctaws, Creeks, Chickasaws, and Seminoles,
removed fifty years ago into the Indian Territory. Through the low-
land portion of these States grow the interminable cane-brakes, and
from the split cane all these tribes make their basketry. They all fol-
low the twilled pattern of the common checker weaving. If there is
any one tribe that excels it is the Choctaws, who even now expose for
sale in the markets of Mobile, New Orleans, and other southern cities
little baskets of green, yellow, red, and black cane, woven in twill,
crossing with the woof two or more warp splints, and managing the
stitches so as to produce diamonds and various zigzag patterns on the
outside. They make a basket oval at the top and pointed below for
presents, averring, as I was informed by a gentleman well acquainted
with them, that this shape imitated the heart, which should always
accompany every gift. The handles of their basketry are very clumsily
put on, marring greatly the appearance of the otherwise attractive
object (Figs. 85-95).

ALGONKIN AND IROQUOIS BASKETRY.

All along our northern frontier and in many parts of Canada the
descendants of the once powerful Algonkin and Iroquois fabricate bas-
kets from the birch, linden, and other white woods. The method of man-
ufacture is universally the same: it is the plainest in-and-out weaving.
The basketry is very far from monotonous, however, for the greatest
variety is secured by difference of form, of color, of the relative size of
the parts, and of ornamentation. In form these baskets run the whole
gamut as among the Haida and the Maka, guided by the maker’s fancy
and the demands of trade. These Indians all live on the border of civil-
ization and derive a large revenue from the sale of their wares. The col-
ors are of native manufacture, red, yellow, blue, green, alternating with
the natural color of the wood. By changing the relative size of the parts
a great variety of effects is produced. To commence with the rudest,
let us take a dozen or sixteen strips of paper half an inch wide, and
cross them so as to have one-half perpendicular to the other, woven in
checker at the center and extending to form the equal arms of a cross.
Bend up these arms perpendicular with the woven checker and pass a
continuous splint similar to the frame-work round and round in a con-
tinuous coil from the bottom to the top. Bend a hoop of wood so as to
fit the top, bend down the upright splints over this, and sew the whole
together with a whipping of splint, and you will have the type basket.
Now, by varying the width of the splint used to cover the sides you
secure a great difference of appearance. In the National Museum are
baskets made of uniformly cut splints not over the one-sixteenth of an
inch in width.

S. Mis. 33, pt. 2——20
306 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884.

Finally the Algonkin and Iroquois as well as the Southern Indian
know how to decorate in baskets with a great variety of rolls looking
much like the napkins on the table of a hotel. He draws a splint under
the warp stick, gives it a turn up or down, or two turns in different di-
rections and draws his loose end tightly under the next warp stick but
one. This operation he repeats, forming around his basket one or more
rows of projecting ornaments.

CENTRAL AND SOUTH AMERICAN BASKETRY.

The Museum is not rich in South American baskets. Those from
British Guiana are precisely like those described by EK. im Thurn in his
work entitled ‘‘Among the Indians of British Guiana.” The specimens
in hand are all of the twill pattern, wrought from a brown vegetable
fiber which shows the same on both sides. This twill is used with good
effect in the diagonally woven cassava strainers, which may be con-
tracted in length by a corresponding increase of the width. When the
grated cassava is packed into this strainer it is suspended and a great
weight fastened to the bottom. The same device in cloth is used by
country housewives in making curds. There is an entire lack of gaudy
dyes in the Guiana baskets, the only colors being the natural hue of
the wood and a jet-black varnish. The gorgeous plumage of the birds
replace the dyes in ornamentation. Central American basketry does
not differ greatly from that of South America except in the finish.
Nothing can exceed in severe plainness and accuracy of execution the
finer ware of Guiana.

Jiu

‘ ey ace
oe
wen? la iu

' Sager Vie is
we ny
Wy :

r Wp ’ Bale

f 5 aH ger */ #

m @iilice 4

‘i 1 oT ny
LAw> oa 8
nab ve Li
PLATE I.
(Mason. Basket-work.)

Fig. 1. Aleutian twined wallet of sea-grass. The warp consists of a number of
straws radiating from the bottom. As the basket enlarges new straws are
inserted, and the whole is held in place by twine made of two straws, which
inclose a warp straw at each half turn. The cylindrical part of the vessel
is of the diamond pattern shown in Fig.2. The ornamentation is produced
by embroidering with bits and strands of red, blue, and black worsted, in no
case showing on the inside of the wallet. The continuous line between the
diagonal stripes is formed by whipping with a single thread of worsted on
the outer stitches of one of the twines of straw. Whipping with single
thread in this ware is not common. The border is formed of the very com-
plicated braid described in the text. Collected in Attu, by Wm. H. Dall.
Museum number, 14978.

Fig. 2. A square inch of Fig. 1 enlarged, taken from the part of the texture where
the rectangular meshes passinto the lozenge-shaped meshes. The peculiar
method of splitting the warp threads and working the halves alternately to
the right and to the left is well shown.
PLATE I.

es YI Paar:

iP , ae >

“oe Take ‘ & 4 —
iu! SAL th ~ APE
PONSA eens
x ae WT _—
ye ais nll meee
t Rim aA Simcd _
VV aw
ne, 4 Ot i %

vy Ta,
; M ua os
a BAY Ai

Fic. 1, Aleutian twined wallet. Fic. 2. One square inch of Fig. 1, enlarged,
PLATE II.

(Mason. Basket-work.)

Fig. 3. Twined wallet of the Eskimo. The warp and the twining of the bottom is
of a very coarse, rush-like, fiber. The bottom is in openwork and is
strengthened on its outer edge by an extra twine set on externally. The
body is of a dirty rush color, the spotted lines on the cylindrical portion are
in black and body color. ‘This effect may be varied by mixing two strands
of different color in the twine. The fastening off at the top is done by
working the warp strands into a three-ply braid, turning down on the in-
side of the vessel and cutting off an end whenever a new warp thread is
taken up by the braid. Frequently the last three or four warp straws are
not cut off but braided out to their extremities in order to form a handle.
Collected at Norton Sound, by E. W. Nelson. Museum number, 38872.

Fxc. 4. One square inch of Fig. 3, representing (1) four rows of twining on the cyl-
indrical portion; (2) the method of adding a new row of twining exter-
nally for a boundary between the bottom and the cylindrical portion, aud
(3) the method of forming an open-work bottom.

fe lay hae eee
Report Nat. Mus. 1884.—Mason. Basket-work. . PLATH II.

WSS
S SS SSS > Ny

*

uy
—_
Mii}

enh AT ical

2
P
2
3
3
i
)

~

os cee el

ce

Fic. 3. Eskimo twined wallet. Fic. 4. One square inch of Fig. 3.
PLATE IU.
(Mason. Basket-work.)

Fia. 5. Coiled Eskimo basket. The bottom is a bit of old leather, to which is sewed,
by means of grass thread, a coil of straws varying in thickness from ¢ to 4
inch. This coil is continued to form the cylindrical side, the shoulder at
the top, and the neck. The disk-like cover is made in the same manner.
Coliected by E. W. Nelson, in Norton Sound. Museum number, 38469,
Report Nat. Mus. 1884.—Mason. Basket-work. PLATE ITI.

Vn
ee ?
‘ >

VRS
” is
ye. ‘ LEIS Aree a
«kL ara rae
4 Bee hey MESS 5
} F -—~——~ | spread

bat WLATf i =e

A i nail Alan PA wagit Ue xed ise SS

gh...” Sea sdbl, tof cra a bey me Be ae

Ho ORR ARR: Ns a Ht RP — <= ST
¥ te < = ! pleke hictd

AN ) toto Pahoa at err siete 4
ii so TAA np A ory aie SeernnD)))))) Yh) Ws if ie pass ;
, | 1 {Maman einen anife Hiatt ) hh A ad) Mn ies of a \
iiss MO OIE AL Payot SAN)
i Aus, ~ , (Unt 4 (ona AY ¥
Fig, DMenpions sey Sao aan cet
~ \\ AAG 1d RY - Sowers preva /e Ak Dede it
Hy ag ROMA AED EON OT Vg ae ae eg NPIL
Fae vari > MN
yi ni TERM AUTRE = — SRNR
x Tae eee com ‘alte ac co WOOO "
iy > aay AFI, a. Se ee oe)! i Pye ae i, Ay adit sss
mp el ees ee ; eee VL Wa uihe: ee ; “aga ere can
Tih |S TAA. ete Caan Cte nan a ree WY ead yin,
Ab TAR . S te hans tN ANP)
‘hs yt ea at sie
1 / ht Peak ass w. ee re did!
id am 2 es ae ae nar aay z MAND Ys 7 UE
Hit Ppt Ue itiiaet=-  APMRECENE NUE f
INE 64). 6 ~--— ait
ON ik, Ui pe KTVT 4 rc etl i)
ful mA TY i | Ca
\ Hash: «4 ¥ : eres sss
Wii ee A SAMs ith ed tas Se ol

een V/A\\ ai .
Wulf) mi 4). 2

Wala

a, a arate %
oF

2 ( A . y
Y Nannie

f

\ i “a ae SE : es :

“hth eS: 2 <=:

WNW Se
“ *

I =

BSS |
==) Wi) ii :

i

i
uy

\
‘An

nh

17 Ms

Ve) WA

I \Ni ‘if Bilt if
ae
iy

Se Yi

\e
s ZA Ny Vi = £
Cee WN \ ioe
ZB Bes. os Uy y YY) ~ % —— ae
g Hy pao SESS
“ ij c= -

Fig. 5. Eskimo coiled basket.

PLATE IV.
(Mason. Basket-work.)

Fic. 6. One square inch of Fig. 5 enlarged, showing the bunch of straws used as the
body of the coil, and the manner of whipping the turns of the coil with
grass threads. Instead of carefully looping the thread into the one just be-
low, as is done in the best coiled work, the basket-maker passed the sticks
indiscriminately through or between those below. Some of the Eskimo bas-
kets, however, resemble those of the next class.
PLATE IV.

Basket-work.

Report Nat. Mus. 1884.—Mason.

Fic. 6 One square inch of Fig. 5.

~ —
PLATE VY.
(Mason. Basket-work.)

Fic. 7. Coiled basket of tne Tinné or Athabascan Indians of Alaska and British
America. The warp or foundation is a single osier or spruce root, the sew-
ing is done with small splints of spruce root. The stitches vary from 4 to 4
inch in length, and the splints from 4}; to 4 inch in width. The stitches of
each coil are locked into the stitches of the coil beneath in addition to pass-
ing under the fundamental rod. In some cases the Eskimo fashion of split-
ting the threads in sewing appears, but the evidence shows that the Tinné
were the teachers of the Eskimo, and the latter follow only the ruder work
of their preceptors. The general shape of this class of baskets is that of a
low narrow-mouthed jar. Collected by Lucien M. Turner, Lower Yukon
River. Museum number,, 24342.

Fre. 8. One square inch of Fig. 7, showing the method pursued in coiled basketry
with a single fundamental and a single splint of osier or spruce root.
iis

Report Nat. Mus. 1884.—Mason. Basket-work. . PLATE V.

wat cas

SYM Ni Ste

SAO ANS AN
yyy
“xy, USA MAL A Vtte
ay OL ihre . aoe Ae
OA Che a
VM USAGES AMT, Bee er
iy GLE eli
4 7 yi r .
hh eee orn Aa year = \t)
S:

Ne -

Wael 4 att f( Aen, cn ea a  lhlenr Wit ;
NS eS M% pi (is at Wr (y
PR Gee Sa. ax can htt Sa
hy WV oy Aids, Wes tats ane aoe Wy)

Wh \ Aaah wae wal \ ; a mS ry) i

\"
MG SU PA ress eer tires ay
Mi i nyt PANO ieee SN os ee ees SO myo
Minh Sone Wy (t4\ Vfl ~ www eset & Sera py)

as igs g is.

Wor ieee
A tin ph oe Wee che if kag

ug UR we e VE
Been iee SN ORs, ss me, om ey

Ao in\s
nl ie fetes
Gn em

& aay Jae yay ek
hy LR ql i iy
id Nh SAULT AR EAT

a

(ee
7

Fic. 7. Tinné coiled basket. Fic. 8. One square inch of Fig. 7.

PLATE VI.
(Mason. Basket-work.)

Fig. 9. Alaskan Indian coiled basket. The outer portion is so covered with ornament
as to conceal the texture of the basket, which is built up by whipping a
coil of rushes or small splints with splint or birch bark. The bottom of
this basket is not a coil, but a number of straight foundation rods sewed
into a rectangular mat, around this the sides are built up by coiling. The
elaborate ornamentation is described under Fig. 10. Collected in Alaska,
by J. J. Maclean, in 1882. Museum number, 60235.

Fic. 10. One square inch of Fig. 9, showing the elaborate ornamentation. The imbri-
cated effect upon the surface is produced by sewing on little loops of bark
and straw, white and brown, with blind stitches in such a way as to con-
ceal the manner of attachment. The mat-like bottom is ornamented by
sewing on straws longitudinally with stitches wide apart, so as to show a
checker pattern of straw and stitching. This method of ornamenting the
bottom is often pursued over the whole external surface of the basket.
Report Nat. Mus. 1884.—Mason, Basket-work, PLATE VI.

TES
TL
Si eaimeee
FeSSe |
Woe

i

HSC 04 gory a
0

Hl) ; ani) ai
WE==S=)) 2S)"
He

tit) iia
SA Latta tien ne

aL

Fic. 9, Alaskan Indian coiled basket, Fic. 10, One square inch >f Fig. 9,
PLATE VII.

(Mason. * Basket-work.)

Fic. 11. Twined basket-wallet of the Chilkaht Indians (Thlinkit stock), band-box
shape when spread out. ‘Tlie bottom is very roughly made of spruce-root
splints, warp and twine, the former radiating from the center. The bound-
ary of the botiom is a single row of twine fastened on externally. The
cylindrical portion for a few inches above the bottom is in natural brown
coloy, excepting two or three vertical bands of embroidery. The rest of the
body is in stripes of natural color, black and Indian red. The border is
formed by turning under the warp threads and cutting them off. The ge-
ometric patterns (different on every wallet) are formed by embroidering
upon the outer surface, half through the fabric, with yellow, light red
straws and spruce-root dyed. This style of basketry is followed by the
Haidas in the baskets made for sale. Collected at Sitka, Alaska, by Dr. J.
B. White, in 1876. Museum number, 21560.
Report Nat. Mus. 1834.—Mason. Basket-work. PLATE VII.

AUTEUR CUD Te
(fiery, ith filive We nueli a
: UD

reo CAR UETT ESATO, 5
Wynate

Pts

m
fies hin
an
my

Ts

Fic, 11. Chilkaht twined and embroidered basket wallet,
PLATE VIII.
(Mason. Basket-work.) r

Fig. 12. Twined basket of spruce root, made by Haida Indians. Thisspecimen shows
better than any of the preceding the method of administration in the
twined basketry. The handle is a twine of spruce root fastened on by
weaving in and out on the side, the lower end knotted. The fastening off

. at the rim is done by bending down the warp threads externally and sew-
ing them flat with onerow of twining. Collected by James G. Swan, in
Queen Charlotte Archipelago, in 1883. Museum number, 88964.
Fic. 138. Oue square inch of Fig. 12 taken near the top, so as to show the close and
the open weaving. The method of twine weaving is perfectly shown in
this figure.
Report Nat. Mus. 1884.—Mason. Basket-work. PLATE VIII.

SSAA :

S SSs$37
MESS Ss
_

\
" Ki
= 4 _=
‘ a
= > = ‘
, i = =. > -
“23 A
. Vass

a
¢

——

SoA STN

‘

——
-)
LS
=<
T—
FJ
‘
=
—4
a
Sr hee
oe
—fy eh
H :
7
\
{
'
\
1
+
~T)
—1
roa
} <= TS
x

PEPE ESTP — — pare
un ees he ee
| | ae | zim Cs Gali. — = eer —— | LE

'

{

{
j Biiqaez,
erence
wv rae)
——=——

—_ IE
SSS
=

4)
ry

i
'
|
\,
(
‘
V]
$
z
;
19)
ask”
7

ih
0
3 4
ag Sm
= =

)

U

'

\

}

\

|

|
of
c —.
ra
D
=

|

|

|

“ b
wer
(a
heres

—_——— Seo
~_—— —. - *'

ue a hi
ae ‘3 earrr u it
"ll ae aii)
bate = ee Nee Ree poe Oe I Bey wh hcg s eT SN |
caer TTT (yy Wy . Go | Hd = ek eA | [ a

—

)

|

Thi BNR IO et eg IOS OE SSS Seo scsseo OEE
DU A Te a ee omen ered ECA
var ~y hath 4 IN YN. 1S Nts Tila 4 B. ~ yy ] yy b VOT, 7h J
Smee: ad SO

$0 Ane
TE SS
TPA git:

Tete
Ad y} sas "

albeit nh A Ta

Fic. 12. Haida twined open-work basket. Fic. 13. One square inch of Fig. 12.
PLATE IX.

(Mason. Basket-work.)

Fic, 14. Rain hat of twined basketry in spruce root from Haida Indians, reduced to
one-eighth linear. This figure is the upper view and shows the method of
ornamentation in red and black paint. The device in this instance is the
epitomized form of a bird, the first step from pictures toward graphic signs.
Omitting the red cross on the top, the beak, jaws, and nostrils are shown
above; the eyes at the sides near the top, and just behind them the sym-
bol for ears. The wings, feet, and tail, inclosing a human face, are shown
on the margin. The Haida as well as other coast Indians from Cape Flat-
tery to Mount Saint Elias cover everything of use with totemic devicesin
painting and carving. Collected in Queen Charlotte Archipelago, by J.
G. Swan. Museum number, 89033.

Fig. 15. Showing the conical shape of Fig. 14. This form should be compared with
one seen so frequently in Chinese and Japanese hats. On the inside a
cylindric] band of spruce root is stitched on so as to make the hat fit the
wearer’s head. Astring passed under the chin is frequently added.
Report Nat. Mus. 1884.—Mason. Basket-work. PLATE IX.

Fig. 13, Haida twined basketry hat, top view. Fic. 15. Same hat, side view.
PLATE X.
(Mason. Basket-work.

Fig. 16. A portion 14 by linch, taken from the rim of the last two figures. It shows the
regular method of twined weaving, the introduction of the skip-stitch or
twilled weaving into the greatest variety of geometric patterns, and the
ingenious method of fastening off by a four-ply braid showing only on the
outer side.
oe eink °

Ree -

Report Nat. Mus. 1884.—Mason. Basket-work.

il i) — SENN
ARTES
i mS.

mi) meee MUU

I oat

Fig, 16. One and a half square inches of Fig. 14,

PLATE X.
PLATE XI.
(Mason. Basket-work.)

Fics. 17-19. Showing the Haida method of twined weaving, almost identical with
that of the Thlinkit stock in style (Fig 11). Fig. 17 exhibits the
method of mounting the work. Along the side of the upright pole is
seen two bundles of spruce-root splints ready for use, one black, the
other in natural color.

Fig. 18. The bottom of the basket, with radiating warp, twined weft, and an exter-

nal twine on its outer boundary.

Fia. 19. One square inch of Fig. 17, indicating the exceedingly regular method of the
twining. On the upper margin is seen the external row of twining added
after the fabric was finished. Collected from the Massett tribe of Haidas,
Queen Charlotte Islands. Museum number, 88956.
ot

oe

Report Nat. Mus. 1884.—Mason. Basket-work.

Fig. 17. Haida basket set up.
Fig. 18. Bottom of same,

PLATE XI.

Fig. 19. One square inch of the side,
PLATE XII.

(Mason. Basket-work.)

Fig. 20. Showing regularly woven cedar-bark wallet of Bilhoolas. The bottom and

Fig. 21.

sides are all in checker pattern. By’ an endless variety in real and pro-
portional width of warp and weft thread, and by coloring some of the
threads, an infinite number of patterns is produced. The fastening off is
done as in Fig. 12. In many cedar-bark baskets of this region the two sets
of threads run diagonally, producing a diamond rather than a checker pat-
tern. Again, much more rarely three elements are involved, an open-work
of two sets running diagonally, and a horizontal thread running through
the open rhombs, in and out, as in multitudes of Japanese baskets. Col-
lected in British Columbia, by James G. Swan.

One square inch of Fig. 20, natural size.
Report Nat. Mus. 1884.—Mason. Basket-work. PLATE XII.

SS SSG ~ SNS . RN : SS ;

SRV MAA RMMNNN NVA eb SE NY > 4

. CEES) BLE 4 - =
aera nare) .

is} "7
or
na

aX WO EON
WEAN
SSMNAT NAY Se
SWNNAE

SONIA A=
SL PSAATUS
YALA SNE ry
SESS SA ARTA

20

dN

Fiac. 20. Bilhoola woven cedar bast basket. -
FG. 21. One square inch of Fig. 20.
PLATE XIII.

(Mason. Basket-work.)

Fig. 22. Openwork carrying basket of the bird-cage or fish-trap style of weaving
made by the Clallam Indians (Selish stock). The frame-work is a rect-
angle of large twigs from the corners of which depend four twigs, joining
as shown in the figure. To this frame-wo1k are lashed smaller rods run-
ning horizontally and vertically, making a lattice-work with any desirable
size of meshes. Finally, spruce-root splints are coiled around the crossings
of these lattice rods. In this particular example the coiling is not contin-
uously around the basket, but on each side separately in boustrophedon,
but in the pretty Makah baskets, woven in this style, the coiled thread
continues around without break from the beginning to the end of the
work. The handles for the attachment of the head-strap are loops of
spruce-root cord set on at the corners. Collected in Washington Territory,
by J.G. Swan. Museum number, 23480.

Fig. 23. Showing the exact method administration in this form of basketry. It
should be closely studied with reference to Makah basketry and Congo
shields and baskets.
Report Nat. Mus. 1884.—Masor. Basket work

PLATE XIII.
i rt yi) vt Lop nay 2
. Hi nM) Wi quis
pn hu ue ee crema ;
| TUN Nf AOU LAGUNA iil it rT
denne HG i for re a LL fi Mt f au cul
1 ee

ut nn

cng vant ' man j
« an sul ith fy Gia An mae
WT I UMUUI

iii sea vin in et
! AANA
HAMANN MAMAN FATA | ih I
| HATTA sr af au foractnnacpan an ery
; conn i an itt Ne hi my fii) iL tight ni wy!
, MRA ALITY aL Gael rr rae NTT
Att A A Na
WUT

y qj } BUI
nit ia LAO Laat
HOTT Py
CMON

l TM! i
“i finn tne ity i W
ce NTT elt
Vi ANAK Aa ah

|| {II [| a i ' | 1}, MG
a Vit ii anit TUT a | caRna
Leal serie mat ult LeU),
NM ae a a RRC LU 7
SUTTONS caine cave SANS SARUM cu it AMATI Wy,
Aa ae 1 aT) AOL My
aS porea) yn es ees HE Wf
ne hee Gane ayrey Uf

23

Fic. 22. Carrying basket of Clallam Indians,
Fig, 23. One square inch of Vig.

ny

22, enlarged to show bird-cage stitch,
PLATE XIV.
(Mason. Basket-work.)

Fires. 24-26. A wonderful specimen of basketry from the Makah Indians (Nutkan
stock). It includes the three distinct types, the plain checker weav-
ing of the Bilhoolas (Fig. 26, bottom), the twined pattern frequently
mentioned in this paper, and, lastly, the bird-cage pattern of the
Clallams (Fig. 25). The ornamentation on this class of baskets, as on
the commercial baskets of the Haidas, consists of geometric patterns
in black, yellow, drab, reds; blues, & c., colors many of which are ob-
tained from traders. The straws are dyed and the pattern is alike on
both sides. Collected at Cape Flattery, by James G. Swan, in 1876.
Museum number, 23346.
Report Nat. Mus. 1884.—Mason. Basket-work. PLATE XIV.

‘ca — ” VY
eR eae
OX Nf q (VO A Sane

n . TOY Cyd
‘ = > DY

\ = x
PELL
YN NA ~

3S
é

x
ee

SORLV YL) . —
Pera x VAVAV. Wa¥ 0 'G'O7 0: RATAATN ONO LLL OO

y)

Z Zn)
= 4 ’
YY ‘ Z

Fic. 24. Makah bird-cage pattern in basketry.
Fic. 25. One square inch of Fig. 24, on the side.
Fic. 26. One square inch outer edge of bottom.
PLATE XV.

(Mason. Basket-work.)

Fic. 27. Twilled splint basket of the Clallams (Selish stock), mate of white birch
wood. The bottom was woven first and all of the bottom splints be-
came the warp of the sides, which are built up by weaving weft splints.
The twilled effect is produced by passing each weft splint always over
two warp splints, and by carrying two weft splints around at the same
time, making them overlap alternate warp splints. The fastening off is
done by bending down the warp straws and whipping them in place with
splint. The scallop on the edge is formed by looping the middle of
two splints under the rim, twisting both pairs of ends into a twine, pass-
ing one twine through the other, and then doubling down to repeat pro-
cess for the next scallop. Collected in Washington Territory, by James
G. Swan. Museum number, 23509.

Fig. 28. One square inch of Fig. 27, showing the method of administering the splints
in plain twill. Innumerable pleasing effects are produced by varying the
color, number, width, and direction of the splints overlapping in the weav-
ing.
Report Nat. Mus, 1884.—Mason, Basket-work. PLATE XV:

am Giitewee af 2 renee OES 2 = sie
hy = pare caer i TIE
itt ze) eet i! aay Nat

ral aap vit i | steal ae a = a (

oe Le

Fia. 27. Clallam twilled basket.
Fic. 28, One square inch on the side of 27.
PLATE XVI.

(Mason. Basket-work.)

FiG. 29. Bottle covered with basket-work by Makah Indians. The groundwork is of
bast and the ornamentation of red, yellow, and black straws sewed on singly
after the Makah fashion. Great numbers of these covered bottles and
other fanciful forms are prepared for sale by the Makahs as well as by the
Haidas, whose work is similar in external appearance, but not in the
method of weaving. Collected at Neeah Bay, Washington Territory, by
James G. Swan, in 1884. Museum number, 73755.

Fia. 30. Bottom of Fig. 29, showing the radiated warp and the alternation of twined
weft with the ordinary in-and-out weaving.

Fig. 31. Portion of the side of the bottle, showing the lattice arrangement of the
warp, and the twined weft, producing irregular hexagons. This method
of producing polygonal meshes, excepting the twined weft, is pursued in
great variety and with excellent effect by the Japanese and other Oriental
peoples.
Report Nat. Mus. 1884.—Mason. Basket-work, PLATE XVI.

Fic. 29. Makah bottle covered with basketry, +.
Fic. 30. Bottom of bottle, natural size.
Fic. 31. One square inch from side of Fig. 29.
—

PLATE XVII.

(Mason. Basket-work.)

Fie. 32. Coiled basket, made of single osier coil, sewed down with spruce root or wil-
low fiber, ascribed to Clallams by commerce in the text, but found on
examination to have come from Sitka. The sewing is very regularly
done, but the stitches split one another, as in Eskimo coiled sewing. Col-
lected at Sitka, by J. G. Swan, in 1876. Museum number, 23512.

Fic. 33. One square inch of 32, showing the method of adding ornamental straws,
caught by every third stitch. The appearance of the yellow dots on the
dark-brown ground is very pleasing in the original.
Report Nat. Mus. 1884.—Mason. Basket-work.

Gt (CT Cea @s)
(u(t cearannc nes
ATTIC

ao

“COU
LD.

“at P67 =

ftv—”"+t

ie

i (CCC WW lin

(Uk Seaktn wa bee
Mier (0 a a UDA 1
LETS ~

Man ss
(CAC CL Wess Li
7 Ze TTT AE

S (| ses Se

Ti Saat Pay) ZED

ee Avr

Sry ee

PLATE XVII.

7 DA
JIVE hy

aan TEUTin7.F 2)))7)

pc rie h

yy ®

7 arr

LEST rm me. -

sas Be a tt ns TRESS eNNuT) ALLA AO 3h

32

Fic. 32, Alaskan coiled basket.

Fic. 33. One square inch of Fig. 32.
PLATE XVIII.

(Mason. Basket-work.)

Fig. 34. Twined or plaited flexible basket of the Klamath Indians, made of rushes and
straw. The management of the material is precisely as in the Eskimo
wallets (Fig. 3). The three elevated bands upon the outside are formed by
rows of twine set on externally. The border in this case is formed by
binding down the warp straws and sewing them fast with trader’s twine.
By twining a dark and alight colored straw, two dark or two light straws,
and by varying the number of these monochrome or dichrome twines, very
pleasing effects in endless variety are produced. Collected at Klamath
Agency, in 1876, by L. S. Dyar. Museum number, 24124.

Fig. 35. One square inch of 34, showing the appearance of the body weaving above —
and of the ornamental twining below.
Report Nat. Mus, 1884.—Mason. Basket-work. PLATE XVIII.
SLLTUEEL EOL AEE

Liars —

Seay,

fi

Min
NV)
AN\.

= \wmMp :
san WN
SLE Petals]

Re ey
SVM

yyy AWW

ee Ee SY
Se er er

——Q

StL
>. —

l

m Minny SA
> Ss

<=

jn BZ S > rl Mi LY A
Gy SLLLZ Hy
V7 Y Lf tj lke LY
— ‘uis) " a ae

Zz
= Zz

an

Fia. 34. Klamath twined basket. Fic. 35. One square inch of Fig. 34.
PLATE XIX.

(Mason. Basket-work.)

Fic. 36. Coiled and whipped baskets from Hoochnom tribe, made of some species of

pliable root. The bottom is started upon a small flat Turk’s-head knot of
splint 2 of an inch in diameter, and continued in a plane outward 4 inches
in diameter before any ornament is attempted. The coils are 4 inch in
cross-section and there are twenty stitches to the inch. There are three
pairs of the ornament on the exterior all alike. The harmony of geomet-
ric design produced by inverting the triangles on the alternate sides is
much more expressive in the specimen where the brown-black ornament is
in contrast with the dark wood color of the body. This specimen should
be compared with Fig. 56. The patterns and designs in this ware are of
great variety and beauty, and the use of beads and feathers much improves
their appearance. Collected at Eel River, California, by Stephen Powers,
in 1876. Museum number, 21371.

Fig. 37. One square inch of Fig. 36, showing method of coiling with various colored

straws.

‘Wr
Report Nat. Mus. 1884.—Mason. Basket-work. PLATE XIX.

aw] PPT PA To ap
‘ a staal ia i , i Hf Inver MN art
n TH

A Nines ae i]
ni

sian
Liner Si eM
Haig wu iy) i ai yey

py at
a i | Ma ion i th

(ih

1
ce 7 Scns Dts Mt) 1
} a tg) )))) yyonnimntty Y Rus ," it “i a
\

Wee nN ins 42

f
a { cu yy. aD
nim #4 ht itis UY end a
li a (ee

ais nh Rig Wey
wn di Ay Ht ar th ae nh tr
vi ite me ial 7 yh it a: ial iy

Mi {
ay : i a AU iy

di IR '
hy, its (as i a a iil

preTT TNT?

tes

es
Fig, 36. Hoochnom coiled basket. Fic. 37. One square inch of Fig. 36.
PLATE XX.

(Mason. Basket-work.)

Fig. 38. Twined wallet of Nez Percé Indians (Sahaptin stock) made of the bast of
Indian hemp (Apocynum cannabinum), A sufficient number of warp strands
were stretched and joined together in their middle by one row of twining.
The ends of these warp strands were then brought together, and the weaver,
by continuing the twine around and around, built up her bag. The orna-
mentation is the same old story of straw colored, brown, blue, and green
strings of the Indian hemp twined externally. Collected in Idaho, by Rev.
George Ainslee. Museum textile number, 8025.

- Fig. 39. One square inch of Fig. 38, showing the body twining and the twined orna-
ment above. '
4
] Report Nat. Mus. 1884.—Mason, Basket-work, PLATE XX.

———*

j

\

J

;

| z
> e

| =
=
SS

r

r

38
}

Fig. 38. Nez Percé twined wallet. Fra, 39. One square inch of Fig. 38.
PLATE XXII.
(Mason. Basket-work.)

Fig. 40. Twined basket hat of the Utes, used by women either as a hat or asa basket.
The California women make hats of a similar pattern, but much finer.
The warp twigs converge at the bottom and additional ones are added as
the texture widens. The weft splints are carried around in pairs and
twived so as to inclose a pair of vertical twigs, producing a twilled effect
something like that of the softer ware of the Haidas and Clallams. The
border of this twined basket is very ingeniously made. First, the project-
ing warp sticks were bent down and whipped with splints to form the body
of therim. Then with two splints the weaver sewed along the upper mar-
gin, catching these splints alternately into the warp straws below, giving
the work the appearance of a button-hole stitch. The ornamentation is
produced by means of dyed twigs either alone or combined with those of
natural color. The texture of this ware is always coarse and rigid owing
to the lack of good material in this arid region. Collected in Southern
Utah, by J. W. Powell. Museum number, 11838.

Fig. 41. One square inch of Fig. 40, showing method of weaving and administering
the colored splints.

——-
PLATE XXI.

Report Nat. Mus. 1884.—Mason. Basket-work.

=a

=\

\\

nN

avis

ay a

t5,

Fic. 41. One square inch of Fig. 40.

Fic. 40, Ute twined hat-bowl.
PLATE XXII.
(Mason. Basket-work.)

Fig, 42. Twined roasting-tray of the Pai Utes. The warp is a lot of osiers spread out
like a fan. The weaving commenced at the bottom by short curves and
progressed by ever-widening curves to the outer margin. The rim is made
by a double row of the coiled and whipped work. The whole surface is
very rough, asin all Ute work, by reason of not twisting the strands when
making the twine. There is little ornamentation on this class of objects.
Collected in Southern Utah, in 1874, by Maj. J. W. Powell. Museumnum-
ber, 11857.

Fig. 43, Twined gathering and carrying basket of the Pai Utes. Woven precisely as
the hats (Fig. 40) and the roasting-trays (Fig. 42). The splints are very fine,
but their refractory nature makes all this ware coarse, Ornamentation is
produced by external twining and by geometric patterns in dyed splints.
Collected in Southern Utah, by J. W. Powell, in 1874. Museum number,

14667.
—

Report Nat. Mus. 1884.—Mason. Basket-work.

ey
way

\

Minyayy By op
wy yi 7 ee ’
tC

eo LOE

PLATE XXII.

en i
42

1D,

nis

Fic. 42. Ute twined roasting tray.

(My
awh:

ae

mide

i]
1avt tea tx,

Dla bint
fl NS hey i,
tae thit,s 2,

~
ae

Fic. 43. Ute carrying basket.
PLATE XXIII.

(Mason. Basket-work.)

Fig. 44. Harvesting wand of Pai Utes, made of twigs, split or whole, bound with
yucca fiber. The figure represents the coarsest specimen in the collection.
In most of this class the longitudinal twigs are held in place by rows of
twine at long intervals. Collected in Southern Utah, in 1874, by J. W.
Powell. Museum number, 11823.
PLATE XXIII.

Report Nat. Mus. 1884.—Mason. Basket-work,

of

eat |

Sh fe

_ Vy
— f
Ze)

L

\\ =~ i 4 ‘\ ~
AW Za J ‘3

Fic, 44, Ute harvesting wand,
PLATE XXIV.
(Mason. Basket-work.)

Fig. 45. Coiled and pitched bottle of the Pai Utes, made of osier, by coiling the fun-
damental twigs in pairs and sewing with split osier always over the two
in hand and between the twigs of the preceding round. As this bottle is
to be covered with pitch either inside or out or on both sides, the sew-
ing is left very open. By having one twig large and the other very small
or by having a bunch of grass for the two twigs, a water tight joint is
produced by the swelling of the warp and weft. The bungling manner of
administering the stitches reminds one of the same type of ware among
the Eskimo. A great variety of form is given to these pitched bottles.
Collected in Southern Utah, by J. W. Powell, in 1874. Museum number,
11262.

Fic. 46. One square inch of Fig. 46, showing the use of the double-twig coil.
i

Report Nat. Mus. 1884.—Mason. Basket-work, PLATE XXIV.

é i pi eh ;

UTR Y, Mi

Tyne ony pudd)
od 71) ia aN
Yeriyy (yy osu
Beraies sand)
ME is bis )

is ud, ah Uf aU i) ee Abs)

aM? Taf Pay /ft0))
rate ir) ya)
Sor

, b Re Uy I l=
Wiveo aun) Meas =i)

” Hf
Wy hice, US A MNGi meray [Fe Tits NBD
if if HY, hy », Ui, My my "NG ARG ig foe i fl

ah,

“4 ~<a rh Wht sil }!) iP 1)
if; 4 pra 7h aL ea)
(ni % MN, ae Vy a MY) Fis rH un yf)
nH if amid Mit mu { Mun pere ely a7) ye i y)

h KCAL nh SS apypcapy er TY Me aH)!

}
ion ' ip! H
e eam net e718, 2D aes y, 4
’ , ce Mr
T ned wits oN. Il oh wid a Ah
: } aaa ae a rn Site nu be a us HAN ish
of 1" 4 nant fi
| aah ee rr Ainreyesmi ul iy WG
Mii ey 1) at aawcsyy fDi) Y WA
tol Gag nee noe Se ff
. ai Ml Re UIT YES YIU Mi oe iP
he. ALU ALN RARE RLM) “a
AS ied aah ak ere Dl y
re ah ya Law Ly
ah Yt Mine i We

GA

E {|

i} Wy

tH, ef
} if

Fic. 45, Ute coiled and pitched water bottle.
Fic, 46. One square inch of Fig. 45.
PLATE XXV.
(Mason. Basket-work.)

Fie. 47. Small coiled mush bow] of the Pai Utes, made by coiling a splint and thin
strip of yucca, bast, or osier, and whipping them with split osier. The
sewing passes over the two elements of the coil in progress and through
the upper element of the coil below, looping always under the subjacent
stitches. Ornamentation produced by working into the fabric triangles
with strips of martynia or dyed splints. The work is very regular and
the texture water-tight, resembling the work of the Apaches and Califor-
nia Indians. The fastening off on the margin is very prettily done by
whipping diagonally with two or three threads crossing one another.
Collected in Southern Utah, by J. W. Powell, in 1874. Museum number,
14720.

Fra. 48. Coiled dish of Pai Utes. The work is founded upon a wooden plug in the
center and coiled by means of an osier and a strip of fiber. Depth, 24
inches. The work is neatly done and the ornamentation resembles that
of Fig. 47. Collected in Southern Utah, by J. W. Powell, in 1874. Mu-
seum number, 14719.
Report Nat. Mus. 1884.—Mason. Basket-work. PLATE XXV.

Fic. 47. Ute coiled mush bowl. Fria. 48. Ute coiled mush bowl,
PLATE XXVI.

(Mason. Basket-work.)

Fig. 49. Water-tight basket bottle of the Apaches. The coiling consists of the rigid
osier and soft fiber combination, before mentioned, the latter acting as
chinking or calking of the openings. ‘This ware differs essentially from
that of the Utes in the glossy even stitches, the care taken in passing them
uniformly under the elements of the preceding coil, and the more elabo-
rate shapes and ornamentation. The lines dropped from the bottom of the
chevron at the bottom meet ina black spot at the center. The upper
chevron and the rings of the neck are in black, red, and yellow splints,
alternately. Collected in Arizona, by Dr. J. B. White, U.S. A., in 1875.
Museum number, 21494.
Keport Nat. Mus. 1884.—Mason. Basket-work. PLATE XXVI.

i Wan pi SUE di iif .
si! 4

y i —
KY - 72 fess : . at ,
ide, Sel APT ay a ALATA WF r
nan hen ALLA "
ane Wee treet Files moi eae si tit us Pi oe, a
My mr. ay sae ek SAU i ate ul
ng LONG Om) mi TTI OTIT Sanease 5
"4 ul A Mi sar! a atl
r fi 2 i . me
niga 7 A Pa i t i ie Lage ari i Tos SE
* Oram bie: ty {-
th 1 Ury A) an to) AU dil Ha WY ee T] eH Day
am lg 7 i rf Cyne el a” 1

| ETO
elk Ade be

cr :
Weal mt fl Es
Mt oui
PLCC TU CNL FTA en eTee

Fic. 49. Apache coiled basket bottle,
PLATE XXVIII.
(Mason. Basket-work.)

Fig. 50. Coiled basket bow] of the Coahuila Apaches. The coil is a bundle of yucca
or other fiber, and the sewing is done with splints of different natural
color, resembling reed cane, and with others dyed a beautiful chestnut
and black. The lovely cloudy effects produced by the ingenious use of
splints of different natural colors resemble those on the Moqui sacred
bread trays. The fastening off is simple coilsewing. The ornamentation
is a series of crosses arranged vertically, and four series of rhomboids
inclosing triangles. Collected in Southern California, by Dr. Edward
Palmer. Museum number, 21787.

Fig. 51. One inch of Fig, 50, showing the multiple coil and the method of stitching.
4

_ Report Nat. Mus. 1884.—Mason. Basket-work. PLATE XXVII.

yp}

PERN OE USS RCURETIT TG poset hegieee

Te (oq MAM LL

| “el uae iy |

UU

bias
oh ik ee ORE As
ALK ee is
Wace
Pita Tm

(Oke

\
Ca watt Ghee 2 cay

Fic. 50. Apache coiled basket-bowl. Fig. 51. One square inch of Fig. 50.
PLATE XXVIII.
(Mason. Basket-work.)

Fig. 52. Inside view of Fig. 50. The black line at the bottom, nearly continuous,
incloses a circle in uniform unvarnished color. All the body color above
this line is of a shining yellow, varying in shade. The disposition of
the ornament is better shown in this figure.

Fig. 53. A similar Coahuila Apache basket, in which the shading of the body mate-
rial is in places very dark. The zigzag ornament, effected by the admin-
istration of the triangle, is very attractive. Depth, 5} inches; width, 16
inches. Collected by Dr. Edward Palmer, in Southern California. Mu-
seum number, 21786.
;

PLATE XXVIII.

Report Nat. Mus. 1884.—Mason. Basket-work.

\

.
\

a
\s

a |
as

‘

\

\

,
-

Sale

PISS

Ye

1 Apache basket-bowl.

ils

53. Coahu

+ oh

IG

.
+

}

f Fig 50.

e view O

Fic, 52. Insi
PLATE XXIX.
(Mason. Basket-work.)

Fig. 54. Cviled osier basket bowl of the Apaches, inside view, made upon a single
twig. The apparently unsystematic ornament is indeed very regular.
Four lines of black sewing of different lengths proceed from a black ring
of the center. From the ends of all these lines sewing is carried to the
left in regular curves. Then the four radiating lines are repeated, and the
curved lines, until the border is reached. Depth, 4 inches. Collected in
Arizona, by Dr. J. B. White. Museum number, 21493.

Fig. 55. Coiled osier basket bowl of the Garotero Apaches, inside view. Inevery re-
spect this resembles theforegoing. The inclosed triangles alternating with
urn patterns constitute the ornamentation. Depth, 34 inches. Collected
on Gila River, by Rev. H. W. Read. Museum number, 4428.
PLATE XXIxX.

Report Nat. Mus. 1884.—Mason. Basket-work.

—_— ee

arotero coiled basket-bowl.

G

Fia. 54. Apache coiled basket-bowl.
PLATE Xxx.

(Mason. Basket-work.)

Fig. 56. Coiled basket bowl, made by Yokuts Indians, and here introduced for com-
parison with Apache work. ‘This is by far the most elaborate piece of
basketry in the National Museum. The bottom is plain and flat, bounded
by a black line. The body color is that of pine root long exposed; the’
ornaments are in black, straw color, and brown. To understand this
complex figure we must begin at the bottom, where 5 barred parallelo-
grams surround the black ring, with center of brown, and generally four
smaller bars of white and black alternating. By aseries of steps or gra-
dines this rectangular ornament is carried up to the dark line just below
the rim. The spaces in the body color, at first plain, are occupied after-
wards by open crosses, and finally by human figures. These human fig-
ures are excellent illustrations of the constraining and restraining power
of material and environment in human achievement. There are 8 coils
and 18 stitches to the inch. Figure, a truncated cone; width, 164 inches ;
depth, 74 inches. Collected in California, by Stephen Powers, in 1875.
Report Nat. Mus. 1884.—Mason. Basket-work.

oper ees

a ey tan
* M83;

Fic. 56. Yokut Indian coiled basket-bowl.

PLATE XXX.
PLATE XXXII.
(Mason. Basket-work.)

Fig. 57. Coiled basket bowl of the Navajos, with single osier in the coil. Body color
natural hue of the wood; ornaments in mahogany-brown, and black.
The bowl is divided four quadrants, each separated by a black border
and having a cross in the center. The border is very interesting, resem-
bling the braiding on a whip. It is made by sewing with asingle splint as
follows: The splint is passed under the sewing of the last coil and then
drawn over it and backward. It is then passed under again, upward and
ferward, just in advance of the starting point. Thus, by sewing forward
and backward, as one coils a kite string, a braided effect is produced by a
single splint thread. Width, 16$ inches; depth, 44 inches. Collected in
New Mexico, in 1873, by Governor Arny. Museum number, 16510.
Report Nat. Mus, 1884.—Mason, Basket-work. PLATE XXXII.

x
1
4
‘
£

~~,
<~

oe

fo;
“ee,
oD)

\ AW =
ines a
7. —_— s

Fie. 57.

avajo coiled basket-bowl.
PLATE XXXII.
(Mason. Basket-work.)

Fig. 58. Coiled basket bowl of the Pimas, made up on a foundation of yucca, the sew-
ing done with splints of willow or pine. The rude character of the orna-
ment is worthy of notice. Depth, 4 inches. Collected by Dr. Edward
Palmer, in Arizona. Museum number, 5548.

Fig. 59. Coiled basket bowl of the Pimas, similar in structure to 58. The grecque
ornament is wrought in with tolerable symmetry. The border has the
braided appearance before mentioned, given by forward and backward
sewing along the border with a single splint. In this instance the stitch
passes backward three stitches of the sewing each time. This is truly
the most ingenious and effective work of the kind yet seen. Collected by
Mrs. Georgia Stout, Pima Agency, Arizona. Museum number, 27837.
Report Nat. Mus. 1884.—Mason. Basket-work. PLATE XXXII.

59

Fia. 58, Pimo coiled basket-bowl. Fie, 59. Pimo eoiled basket-howl,
PLATE XXXIII.

(Mason. Basket-work.)

Fic. 60. Coiled basket bow] of the Pimos, built on yucea fiber and sewed with rhus
or willow. The ornamentation is in red paint and splints dyed black.
The border is back and forward sewing to imitate a braid. The method
of administration is quite apparent in the specimen. The border stitches
have an excursion varying from 2 to 4 of the regular stitches of the last
coil at the top of the bowl. Depth, 3 inches. Collected in Arizona, by
Dr. E. Palmer. Museum number, 76038.

:
:
i
Report Nat. Mus. 1884.—Mason. Basket-work. PLATE XXXII.

) a ans S
a TT
Aart aD (ster Meng Wy «
COL Tn Ue as

\ ( | ni , yy

SO re IES i lg

Sanen rae be enrey zZ
iy hee De Brits
NIT | an RL ioe
DSO paras Grae || Pee he ee

eT, %
ieee

SWF fi | BRGY:
s A eee it : pe, C8»
QE TG BI AN.

Mer.
V/,

py

on
1m,

Hh
lt

Tiny,
<<
ht
1}j itl
<<
Ls.¥ LM sv" Sy
' } ath. ) ’ 5 < \ \
wis Zz
pa
wee.

iS

PY == = ===
aS : aS — i = a= a

7 = =. Re

38 eS ES =s,
= BS 3334
= SSI a3 =
i ppt:
= SS 7 AACE
— . pepe pti
=e z SNES!

¢
Li
fy
Ce,

, a!)
“dly}
Uy

/)
Pan,
UM,

(ite

ma INS Sg, BP \\ Ao
<1) )) LN

Ly IM THI Be” 7
ay ee

a

Fic. 60, Pimo coiled basket-bowl.
PLATE XXXIV.

(Mason. Basket-work.)

Fig. 61. Coiled basket bowl of Pimos. Made on yucca with splint sewing similar to
those just described. The ornament is evidently the work of a beginner,
but the pattern is both regular and unique, all the parts being in threes
and the two sides of each pattern quitesymmetrical. Border of backward
and forward sewing, quite uniform in appearance, but done regardless of
the number of body stitches beneath. Width, 8 inches ; depth, 2+ inches.
Collected in Arizona, by Dr. Edward Palmer, in 1884. Museum number,
76039.
Report Nat. Mus. 184.—Mason. Basket-work.

ii pa
Meine
Herve m am

Fic. 61. Pimo coiled basket-bowl,

PLATE XXXIV.
PLATE XXXV.

(Mason. Basket-work.)

Fic. 62. Coiled basket bow] of Pimos, flat-bottomed. The ornament consists of four
similar patterns, based on four elongated right-angled triangles. Each of
the other lines of the pattern is as hearly parallel to one of the sides of
this triangle as the texture will permit. It is difficult to conceive how this
design was studied out beforehand. Width, 12} inches; height, 5 inches.
Collected in Arizona, in 1884, by Dr. E. Palmer. Museum number, 76040.

Report Nat. Mus. 1884.—Mason. Basket-work., PLATE XXXV.

<i na

lit :

Fic. 62. Pimo coiled basket-bowl.
PLATE XXXVI.

(Mason. Basket-work.)

Fig. 638. Large basket bowl of Pimos. The manufacture is similar to that in those
just mentioned, but the use of the continuous fret in ornamentation is
remarkable, as exhibiting the easy manner in which the fret may have
arisen in basketry. The border is a false braid formed by a single splint
and resembles an elongated guilloghe. Width, 182; depth, 53. Collected
in Arizona, by Dr. E. Palmer, in 1874, Museum number, 76041.

Report Nat. Mus. 1884.—Mason. Basket-work.

-- /5 Fo > - n
if wa f
/ '£Z AAS Q 4s 4

Fic. 63. Pimo coiled basket-bowl,

PLATE

SZXXVI,
PLATE XXXVII.
(Mason. » Basket-work.)

Fic. 64. Small twined granary of straw, made by Pimos. Made of wheat-straw in
a coil sewed with bands of willow-bark. The very noticeable féature
about this specimen is that only in a few cases do the stitches of the coils
interlock. Diameter, 20 inches; height, 12 inches. Collected in Arizona,
by Dr. E. Palmer, in 1884.

I'1G. 65. One square inch of 64, showing the coiled straws and the method of sewing.
a <

Report Nat. Mus. 1884.—Mason. Basket-work. PLATE XXVII

LY —// Z -
—h MD My eM.
ae a

rs

Fig. 64. Pimo coiled granary of straw and bark.
Fic. 65, One square inch of Fig. 64,
PLATE XXXVIII.
(Mason. Basket-work.)

Fic. 66. Twined jar-shaped basket of the Mokis. Excepting in the rigid material —
and the pottery form, we have here all the details of the west coast bas-
ketry. At the center of the bottom each twining includes two warp twigs;
the next round the same plan is followed, but the stitches alternate. This
for 10 rows; on the fifth is an exterior twining for ornament. Then suc- —
ceed 6 rows of twining on each twig, then 4 rows of twining over two
twigs, then 9 rows of single twining overlaid by two double rows of ex-
ternal twining. ‘The rest of the surface is covered with twining over every
warp twig, onoverlaid the upper portion and at the bulge by external
twining. The fastening off is mere whipping. Collected in Moki pueblos
in Arizona, by J. W. Powell, in 1884. ,

Fic. 67. One inch of 66, showing the twining on single and on double rods.

Report Nat. Mus. 1884.—Mason. Basket-work. PLATE

XXXVIII.

WA

Le EF BO TET mia = can

SPS ee SS PID

A hae Sat ike :
Pe £

| A La =

—_—
eT SS

OD
tubes
Y

I pro

—T “C

eet og owe

66

CLM LAA ILA
GIaPAITCE

=

Fia. 66. Moki twined basket-jar. Fic. 67, One square inch of Fig. 66,
PLATE XXXIX.

(Mason. Basket-work.)

Fie. 68. Coiled sacred meal tray of the Mokis. A bunch of yucca leaf stems, or of
grass, varying from } inch to 1 inch in diameter, is sewed in a continuous coil
by means of slender threads of yucca fiber about 5|;th inch in width, and
very uniform throughout. Each stitch of the progressing coil is caught into
a stitch of the coil beneath with perfect regularity, forming a dish looking
like a great worm coiled up. The ornamentation isin yellow and brown.
The first spots interiorly contain from 4 to 6 stitches. On the next turn a
series is arranged with relation to these. By the simple management of
this device hundreds of patterns are worked out. * Collected in Arizona by
J. W. Powell.

Fic, 69, One square inch of Fig. 68, showing the method of administration.
352=

J
Nat. Mus. 1884.—Mason. Basket-work. PLATE XXXIxX.

Ny

ee.
NES

J

RK)
\ A"

68

TU

NE

—"
——
= H
i
y

Fic, 68. Moki coiled tray, Fig, 69, One square inch of Fig, 68,
PLATE XL.

(Mason. Basket-work.)

I'1G. 70, Coiled sacred meal tray of the Mokis. The coloring of the interior exhibits
the fine shading produced by the skillful manipulation of the dark and the
light side of the fiber. Collected in Arizona, by J. W. Powell.

; ery
Report Nat. Mus, 1°81.-—-Mason. Basket work

uuu
NNN H
A ra

lj

Uy

‘Ay

YI
HM)

Ml MN)
Mi

Via. 70. Moki coiled tray.

IL

PLATE XL.

“A
>
PLATE XLI.
(Mason. Basket-work.)

Fia. 71. Coiled basket of Upper Egypt, made of bundles of palm-leaf veins, sewed
with strips of palm leaf. Introduced here for comparison with the Moki
work, Ornamentation in red and black. A Jong red or black strip of leaf
is laid on the outside of a coil and caught down by alternate stitches. The
varying of the number of stitches canght over or covered by these strips
produces a multitude of effects. These baskets are frequently pitched for
boats or Moses’ arks. Collected by Dr. G.W. Samson, in Upper Egy pt, 1848.
Museum number, 74871. ;

Fig. 72. One square inch of Fig. 71, showing the sewing and the strips of ornament.
Report Nat. Mus, 1884.—Mason. Basket-work. PLATE XLI.

ae =

z AU eae vA ANY
ty AD mee
YU { T

aan pink meet
Mg aa i ie fay MEY

by PE 7, it rit
Ee ae ae
Leen euyADE
VN WT: yy te vu) my
Sa kd fl |
eae We pnri
OTN A met 0" ee
sa Pal

4,

vp is

a ee ee ae ee aS eee eee

Fig. 71. Nubian coiled basket. Fic. 7<. One square inch of Fig. 71.
PLATE XLII.
(Mason. Basket-work.)

Fic. 73. Woven bread-tray of the Mokis, made upon radiating warp twigs by weaving
bits of colored twig, stripped of their bark, in and out, and by fastening off
the ends alongside of the warp twigs inside the fabric. This type should
be particularly noticed as the first example yet encountered of the regular
basket weaving so common in the ware of more civilized peoples. Some
of the bits of twig used are less than an inch long, and none of them ever
exceed a foot. The figure is the same on both sides, but each stitch and
design in front is just one space farther to the right on the back. Collected
in Arizona, by J. W. Powell, in 1874.

Vig. 74. One square inch of Fig. 73, showing the regularity and disposition of the
weaving.

—-~
PLATE XLII.

Report Nat. Mus. 1884.-Mason. Basket-work.

= SSS

74, One square inch of Fig. 75.

FIG.

Moki woven bread-tray.

Fig. 73.
PLATE XLIII.

(Mason. Basket-work.)

Fic. 75. Woven bread-tray of the Mokis, similar in workmanship to Fig. 73. The
fastening off is done by whipping one or two twigs around the edge by
means of yucca fiber. The design is a series of concentric rings in pretty
colors, the figures corresponding exactly on the two sides. Collected in
Arizona, by J. W. Powell, 1874.
\

Report Nut. Mus. leé4.-Mason. Basket-woirk. PLATE XLIII.

| Ss SS
MASS
WA SS

SS

SS SS. 4

Fic. 75. Moki woven bread-tray.

PLATE XLIV.
(Mason. basket-work.)
Fig. 76. Woven hasket-tray of the Mokis. This figure shows very clearly what pleas-
ing designs may be worked out by the skillful adjustment of simple forms

and color. In the bright colurs used for this ware the Mokis produce de-
cidedly brilliant effects. Collected in Arizona, by J. W. Powell, in 1874.
Report Nat. Mus. leei.—Masun, Bashet-work, PLATE XLIV.

Ly i. e
bi y

ly

| Me)
E HK
AN

\

All
C4 \

2 2S
Ss si f == ES ~
a — ae :
~ my
s
TQS

tf | pull cle) ae!
Aus ra TE Lp)
NN Wed)
S\N ‘ . ENS a 5
CUS
Wy

\
‘\
Oss =

Fic. 76. Moki woven bread-taay.
PLATE XLV.
(Mason. Basket-work.)

Fic 77. Woven basket-tray of the Mokis. In this figure should be noticed the
method of starting the weaving. <A certain number of twigs are plaited
at the center iuto a cross. These twigs are spread out so as to form the
radii of a circle, and the little twigs are so woven as to increase the
length of the meshes going outward. Here and there an additional warp
twig is introduced at points where they are needed, but not beyond the
dark circle. The ornamentation in this case is produced simply by the use
of patches, two or three stitches of the same color alternating with the
body color. Collected in Arizona, by J. W. Powell, in 1874,
Report Nat. Mus. 1554.--Mason. Basket-work. PLATE XLV.

\
mM
a tht on |
Hm | Hi ith
Hy

\\
Mt
Us

EY
\
uN
A
t
i) il

‘

WHA Wn
ws at | ia
ay

ESS

Sa *

if

, 0 te taeB:

>)

“4

Wage”
Wie. MEA

\
3
if

\

\\)
TAY
i
Wy)

jl

Md

agp Ur aba ite pee ee
a = a

Fic. 77. Moki woven bread-tray.
PLATE XLVI.
(Mason. Basket-work.)

Fic. 78. Woven basket-tray of the Mokis. The especial attraction about this speci-
men is the genuine cloud effects produced on the surface by the simplest
means. This represents a stage of art far above the genius of savage cul-
ture. Collected in Arizona, by J. W. Powell, in 1874.
Report Nat. Wus. 1884. —Mason. Basket-work. PLATE XLVI.

BYE

— -

[ \\ \
Was
nN

a ——s ‘
— . <a} ~ ==

pps 1 TT
E

<i
. Ca

Wea : wl } Hi:
a a

———— 7 aA\S AY

a i
wn
8 sh

Fic. 78. Moki woven bread-tray.
PLATE XLVII.

(Mason. Basket-work.)

lic. 79. Woven basket-tray of the Mokis, made as others just described. The very
insecure method of fastening off is shown on the left rim. The pattern on
this specimen introduces no new elements or colors. The elaborate human
head, with brilliant cape and gorgeous head-dress, reminds one of Aztec
inscriptions. Collected in Arizona, by J. W. Powell, 1874.

“Report Nat. Mus. 1884.—Mason. Basket-work. PLATE XLVII

f S: f : ii mI | hia
¢ y ga, ey hy) i, y// bo
Aa //) Wisi lire [ee

Ay)

we

WW
«

\\

ot a Ue
==> SSS
= > es
== : ‘
BY
4 S27 ~
OS} S
:.
a. PS
Se = 4: SES OTE
on = CRAY
ee aS S.
Fea © SS QN
—* Ez. SS
~_ 5 *) AX .
SSS f > :
“ an
} « > "RAS
S a ‘
xs
= 2 PERSE
ar .
=
S 6,
oS :
Deretaale : .
Soe. ..))\ NES \
E , (thay ! i
: if ihe as
Wat: -.— RU
= Mts. TE Uli }
ae: Te
+
2 Ay a ir
: Ku all]
of Oe, an /s
on may °e
a. = 3 , ., ve
meet So " >
v ax mL
= ¥ Zz Z.
“
es aC C2
ed é 5
i 35
=e
ws.
ae
ts
~
‘
fi

Fic. 79. Moki woven bread-tray.
PLATE XLVIII.

(Mason. Pasket-work.)

Fic. 40. Woven peach-basket of the Zniis. More than the Moki trays, this specimen
recalls the method of manufacture to he seen in the thousands of baskets
employed in civilized drudgery. Roughness, asymmetry, rude fastening
off with yucea fiber are its attractions. Collected in New Mexico, by J. W.
Powell. Museum number, 40201.
Report Nat. Mus. 1884.—Mason.

FIG.

Basket-work.

(

CL

80. Zuni woven fruit-basket,

PLATE XLVIII.

ay = A cee : ; Jv Fy
* 28 or
& — i _ = \((— Th e-
<= aT
PLATE XLIX.
(Mason. Basket-work.)

Fia. 81. Jar-shaped coiled basket from Zufii Indians. This.is a very beautiful specie
men of coiled ware for this region, in shape, regularity of stitch, and or-
namentation in black. Upon the authority of explorers the text is made
to say that the pottery-making Indians are not good basket-makers. This
specimen leoks as though it might have come from California. Collected
in New Mexico by J. W. Powell, in 1874.

Fic. 82. One square inch of 81, showing the use of the strip of fiber for chinking,
and the altesnation of white and black stitches,
PLATE XLIX.

AS ‘sal
one Nate

o 5 Sia in WA torn te ais Ye ry 4
t Jy ant Meee eo ;
xi tty
ry wie ST

y}
SS (i
qe USS
: i ree Ra ae

-“* ee ee

MWe Tin ces
vit
%

ue : ; =a
ved fe ——— Bis ; bao :
Sa tevin ote Ogg 2
PM SSS Ce
etvenss. ANDES A OF A

i Anes
eae us

eel ete i
Ve lee FILLE

31

PLATE L.
(Mason. Basket-work.)

Fia. 83. Coiled basket-tray from Zui. The texture is exceedingly open, owing to
the use of the single rod in the coil with coarse chinking. Collected in
New Mexico, by J. W. Powell, in 1874.

Fig. 84. One square inch of Fig. 83, showing the warp rods and the method of sewing.
This stitch is best employed in the exquisite rattan baskets of Siam.
etl es

nese

x
«

Fic. 83, Zuni coiled food-tray.

Fic. 84, One square inch of Fig. 83,
yas’) 5 oe eee i a hee

a? a \* te
, hehe oP Oi Fake Pty:

PLATE LI.

(Mason. Basket-work.)

Fig. 85. The first step in ordinary basket-weaving, showing how the bottom is set up —
in split cane or splints of tough wood.

Fig. 86. The second step in basket-weaving, showing how the bottom splints are }

. turned up to form the sides,

j Report Nat. Mus 1884.—Mason. Basket-work. PLATE LI.

|

Fie. 85. Bottom of plain, woven basket.
Fig. 86. Method of building the sides of a basket.
PLATE LII.

(Mason. Basket-work.)

Fies. 87,88. Showing the method of completing the weaving on the sides of an ordi-
nary splint basket, and preparing to lay on the rim.
Ea
tn

i= —

wT

<== IO —_
SS ua I
SSS Ba 3=Fz SS Sst =
- ——— — . ; ie
=I ai a

Hh | &
ef (TH
<4 Lik es
ALAM Seaezts (3)
Eth — E,
Tay its

asl

7 ~ Report Nat. Mus. 1884.—Mason. Basket-work. PLATE LII.

Basket ready for the rim.

Fic. 88.

Fic. 87. Side of basket, finished.
PLATE LIII.
(Mason. Basket-work.)

Fig. 89. Twilled woven basket, covered with diaper pattern below, made from cane,
by Cherokee Indians. Similar ware is produced by all our southern In-
dians. The diaper pattern is produced by overlapping two or more warp
sticks with each stitch. Collected in North Carolina, by Dr. Edward
Palmer, in 1880.
Report Nat. Mus. 1884.—Mason. Basket-work.

i = ——=
== agai Th
pm lll cua ae

=—=——.

Fic. 89 Cherokee twilled basket of cane.

PLATE LIII.
PLATE LIV.
(Mason. Basket-work.)

Via. 90. Twilled palm-leaf basket-wallet of Fiji Islanders, woven double, the inside
of plain checker pattern of broad pieces. The exterior covered with every
conceivable manipulation of black and white strips of palm-leaf, varying

in width. Introduced here for comparison with twilled weaving on our
continent. Collected in Fiji, by Captain Wilkes, in 1840.
/ ‘Report Nat. Mus. 1884.—Mason. Basket-work.

Saas

ae panies

anna

It

Bea ihe Bl) |

yer i
m aay

-_— Hh eo
i" =

a eres _|
ea Er “ll ae = Se,
"ia" ut it i tilly,

to = |
AR i ay uy

quit “ifsc sal tal eye

Ls ues

Hat walle +, &

poe sy iH =

PLATE LIV.

Fic. 90. Fijian twilled basket of palm leaf.
PLATE LY.
(Mason. Basket-work.)

Fic. 91. One square inch of 90 enlarged to show the method of cross-stitehing in Fiji
basketry, combined with varying width of strips.
PLATE LV.

Report Nat. Mus. 1884.—Mason. Basket-work.

im

——s —" .

> A n x a
,- PN
= = =
—\ . c ae E

= fh | { Fe he =|
‘i es | | || eee Pill | oe
AY = Wh. i We j ——
: : a aos j ‘ oe, Min:
-* a | Wi |) =I} pi mo

Fic. 91. One square inch of Fig. 90.
PLATE LVI.

(Mason. Basket-work.)

Fig. 92. Woven fish-basket of Fiji Islanders. This specimen is also woven double,
the inside being very coarse. Collected in Fiji Islands, in 1840, by Captain
Wilkes.
¢ Report Nat. Mus. 1884.—Mason. Basket-work. PLATE LVL

fin

aie Y a,
righ te
“ANS I 3 r ‘. fe:

Fig, 92. Fijian fish-basket of palm leaf,

rr ee

PLATE LVII.
(Mason. Basket-work.)
Fie. 93. One inch of the bottom of 92 enlarged to show the simple twilled weaving.

Fic. 94. Plain weaving on the sides of Fig. 92.
Fig. 95, Coarse weaving of the inside of Fiji basketry.
! sh Re’ Phe oN
OR port Nat. Mus. ed —Mason. Basket-work. : PLATE LVII.

we St —
m2 mh =
penecea ae

ene

94

Fic. 93. One square inch of bottom, Fig. 92.
Fic, 94. One square inch of outside, Fig. 92.
Fig. 95. One square inch of inside, Fig. 92,

PLATE LVIII.

(Mason. Basket-work.)

¥ 1a. 96. Woven basket of Micmac Indians made of white birch. Thousands of these
pretty baskets wrought into hundreds of shapes are sold in the towns and
villages of the Northern States by the Indian basket-maker. A curious

modification of this method of weaving comes from Tripoli, in which the —

horizontal part is rigid and the weft straws run up and down. It is as if

we revolved the Micmac pattern 90 degrees. Collected by Mr. G. Brown

Goode, in Nova Scotia.

SS
PLATE LVIII.’

Report Nat. Mus. 1884.—Mason. Basket-work.

Lary

AM

——————e—EeE—— ee ae ee ee le

Fic. 96. Miemae woven birch basket.
gx °
Peer wie
7.
an

ae

PLATE LIX.

ae ta " (Mason. Basket-work.) \ : pa.
Ss iN
‘ ee: Fras. 97,98. Showing the method of introducing the curled anes in Algon yn
ny S, and Iroquois basketry.

chal

Report Nat. Mus. 1884.—Mason. Basket-work, PLATE LIX,

Figs. 97, 98. Method of ornamentinug birch baskets.
PLATE LX.
(Mason. Basket-work.)

Report Nat. Mus. 1884.—Mason. Basket-work. PLATE LX.

=

eo
{I

Fic. 99, Eskimo ivory pricker from Point Clarence,
PLATE LXI.
(Mason. Basket-work.)

Fias. 100-102. Bone, ivory, and metal-pointed prickers from Lower Yukon district. |

‘

t

”
a7 ;
’

i
al ie
wee
, '
‘
i
mi

a
7

‘

PLATE L&I.

Report Nat. Mus. 1884.—Mason. Basket-work.

a al

2 4H
oS —
=~)

=

101

102

100

Fia. 102. Eskimo pricker with metal point.

Fic. 100. Eskimo pricker of bone.
Fic. 101. Eskimo pricker of antler.

PLATE LXII.

(Mason. Basket-work.)

Fie. 103. Eskimo pricker with wooden handle and iron point lashed with rawhide.

Fic. 104. Eskimo awl, with metal point in ivory handle.

Fig. 105. Eskimo drill-shaft of wood with metal point and band of rawhide. Drills
of this class also have beautiful jade points.

Report Nat. Mus. 1884.—Mason. Basket-work, ‘PLATE LX.

Fic. 103, Eskimo iron-pointed pricker, Fig. 105. Eskimo iron-pointed drill,
Fic, 104, Eskimo iron-pointed awl,

PLATE LXIII.
eres Basket-work.)

e _ Figs. 106, 107. Bone prickers used by Moquis. Collected in Arizona, by a ; W.1 owe

Bhs ae

¢

Report Nat. Mus. 1884.—Mason. Basket-work.

3 Ny ) ~
= ma\)) d\n Ny

wail
\
'
off
anit
RY

SS

(

3
|
a

106

Figs. 106, 107, Moqui bone prickers,

PLATE LXIII,

107
PLATE LXIV.
(Mason. Basket-work.)

Fic. 108. Bone pricker from Coahuila, Mex. Collected by E. Palmer.
Fig. 109. Iron-pointed pricker of Cherokees. Collected in North Carolina, by E.
Palmer.
Report Nat. Mus, 1884.—Mason. Basket-work. PLATE L&AlIVv.

So

PASTS

Fic. 108. Coahuita bone pricker. Fic. 109. Cherokee pricker in antler.
th ee

+ F esl aley ~ Y ' ; f > ae

; RUTeay Ot Fadainiy wnatinvpelty MOS tek lator ocd aia nay” | St a ay
: * heal ay
3 : ee ee, i. ke
yale Le yt > :

“at 7 i ax

- 4
; ae ,
; ri

III.—A STUDY OF THE ESKIMO BOWS IN THE U. S. NATIONAL
MUSEUM. ‘

By JounN Murpoca.

While endeavoring to work out the method of construction of the
bows collected by our party* among the Eskimos of Point Barrow,
Arctic Alaska, I was led to make a comparative study of all the Es-
kimo bows in the National Museum with the view of determining the
types of construction to be found among them, and their geographical
distribution.

It is the purpose of this paper to present the general conclusions
arrived at from this study, which I propose to treat in detail in a mo-
nograph of the ethnological collection of the expedition, which I am
engaged in preparing. Iam indebted to Professor Otis T. Mason, of the
National Museum, for much cordial assistance and co-operation in the
prosecution of this study and in the preparation of the illustrations.

1 have confined myself to the discussion of the forms of bow in use
among the Western Eskimos, namely, those inhabiting the shores of
the Arctic Ucean from the Mackenzie River westward to Bering Strait,
of Bering Sea and the Gulf of Alaska, with the outlying Asiatic branches
on the mainland of Siberia and Saint Lawrence Island. These regions
are very fully represented in the Museum by the collections of Ross
and MacFarlane from the Mackenzie River region, Dall, Turner, Nelson,
and others, from the Alaska coast, Nelson, from Saint Lawrence Island,
and the North Pacific Exploring Expedition, from the mainland of Si-
beria, while the material from the eastern tribes is very scanty and
unsatisfactory. .

Starting from the island of Kadiak in the south, there is abundant
material from the whole coast as far as the northern shore of Norton
Sound, from the Diomede Islands, Point Hope, Wainwright’s Inlet,
Point Barrow, and the Mackenzie region, as well as from Saint Lawrence
Island and the Siberian shore. Unfortunately, the region about Kotze-
bue Sound, including the great peninsula between this and Norton
Sonnd, is not represented in the collection.

The field of investigation is practically untrodden. Although it has
Jong been known that the Eskimos used cords of elastic sinew to coun-
teract the brittleness and lack of elasticity in the spruce and fir—the
only wood at their disposal for making bows—authors have confined

*U. S. International Polar Expedition to Point Barrow, 188183.
207
308 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884.

themselves to a general statement of the fact, without going into the
details of construction.*

I have found that the bows of the Western Eskimos are constructed
upon three well-defined types, each quite distinctly limited in its geo-
graphical distribution. No one of these types can be considered as de-
rived from either of the others, but all are plainly developed from a
single original type still to be found only slightly modified in the region
around Cumberland Gulf, where the mechanical arts seem to have re-
mained in many respects wore primitive than either in Greenland or
Alaska. (Fig. 1, back and side view of a bow of reindeer antler from
Cumberland Gulf, No. 34053, collected by L. Kumlien.)t

The main part of the reinforcement or backing always consists of a
continuous piece of stout twine made of sinew, generally a three-strand
braid, but sometimes a twisted cord, and often very long (sometimes
forty or fifty yards in length). One end of this is spliced or knotted
into an eye, which is slipped round one “nock” of the bow, usually the
upper one. The strands then pass up and down the back and round
the nocks. A comparatively short bow, having along its back some
dozen or twenty such plain strands, and finished off by knotting the
end about the “handle,” appears to have been the original pattern. The
bow from Cumberland Gulf (Fig. 1) is such a one, in which the strands
have been given two or three turns of twist from the middle. They are
kept from untwisting by a “stop” round the handle, which passes be-
tween and around the strands.

The three Western Eskimo types may be described as follows:

I. THE SOUTHERN TYPE.

Of this there are two slightly different patterns, found often side by
side.

*For example: ‘‘They ingeniously remedy the defect [i. e., the want of elasticity
in the material] by securing to the back of the bow and to the knobs at each end a
quantity of small lines, each composed of a plat or ‘sinnet’ of three sinews. The
nuinber of lines thus reaching from end to end is generally about thirty; but besides
these several others are fastened with hitches round the bow, in pairs, commencing
eight inches from one end and again united at the same distance from the other, mak-
ing the whole number of strings in the middle of the bow sometimes amount to sixty.
These being put on when the bow is somewhat bent in the contrary way, produce a
spring so strong as to require considerable force as well as knack in stringing it and
giving the requisite velocity to the arrow.” (Parry’s Second Voyage, p. 511.)

‘‘These bows [in the Yukon delta] are made of spruce, which Las little elasticity
when dry and is very liable to break. To remedy this defect the bow is bound with
cords twisted from deer sinew [as shown in a figure, which gives the general appear-
ance very well]. This gives it great strength and overcomes the brittleness of the
yood.” (Dall’s Alaska and its Resources, p. 228.)

‘‘Only some old bows had a finer form. They were larger and made with care; for
instance, they were covered with birch bark and strengthed by an artistic plaiting of
sinew on the outer side.” (Nordenskiéld’s Voyage of the Vega, ii, p. 108.)

tWhen a seale accompanies a figure each division represents one inch. Figures
without a scale are natural size, unless otherwise specified.

ESKIMO BOWS. 309

1. A broad and flat bow tapering to the nocks, which are formed by
simple rounded knobs, and narrowed and thickened at the handle so
as to be half as wide and twice as thick as the broadest part of the
bow. The back is flat and the belly often keeled from end to end, and
this keel is sometimes deeply furrowed for its whole length; the’edges
are generally square and sometimes grooved longitudinally. (Figs. 2,3,
and 4 show the general pattern of this type.) The bow when unstrung
is either straight, slightly sprung toward the back, or, rarely, arched,
and is sometimes stiffened along the back with an extra rib of wood or
ivory. The backing is occasionally tightened with wedges Its length
is from 50 inches to 5 feet, averaging about 55 inches, with its greatest
breath about 2 inches (rarely 24 to 24 inches).

2. A bow of essentially the same size and outline as the first form,
but with about one foot of each end bent up toward the back so as to
lie parallel to the string when the bow is strung, as in the Tatar bow,
with the backing generally stretched over bridges at the bends. (Fig.
5, No. 36028, from the mouth of the Kuskoquim River, collected by E.
W. Nelson.)

The backing starts in the ordinary way and consists wholly of straight
parallel strands passing round the nocks, or secured by pairs of half-
hitches at various points on the bow. The last strand is wrapped
spirally round the others to keep them from spreading apart, though
occasionally one end of the cable is wrapped with a separate piece, and
very rarely the whole wrapping is separate from the rest. A separate
piece of twine, thong, or withe serves to stop the backing down to the
handle, and there are sometimes other separate stops on the broad part
of the bow (as in Fig. 2). The whole of the broad part of the bow is
occasionally seized down with spaced spiral turns of twine (Fig. 4, No.
7972, from Bristol Bay, collected by Dr. Minor), which, in one case at
least, are made by the end of the last strand. The strands of the back-
ing vary in number from 11 to 357 (usually about 25). They are some-
times all of the same length, in which case the outer strands are hitched
round the bow a short distance from the nocks instead of passing round
the latter (Fig. 2, back and side view, and Fig. 2 a, one end of No. 56032,
from near Cape Romanzoff, collected by E. W. Nelson). More commonly
4-22, usually 6 or 7 strands are shorter than the rest and only extend
from the broadest part of one end to the corresponding point at the
other (Fig. 3, No. 72408, from Bristol Bay, collected by the late C. L.
McKay. Fig. 3a, the broadest part of the same bow, to show the attach-
ment of the short strands), thus giving special strength and elasticity
to the middle of the bow.

These shorter strands are sometimes the outer ones of the backing,
but more commonly about the middle of it. Rarely, as in the case of
one bow from the island of Nunivak (Fig. 6, No. 15651, collected by W.
H. Dall. This is an unusually large and stout bow, with 37 strands in
310 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884.

the cable), and one from near Cape Romanzoff (Fig. 7, No. 36034, col-
lected by E. W. Nelson), the strands are twisted from the middle (the
two ends of the bow in opposite directions) by introducing a toggle
between the strands, and the twist is secured by passing the “stop”
through the cable.

This type extends from the island of Kadiak to Norton Sound. The
second form of the type appears to be less common than the first, though
occurring alongside of the latter. It appears not to be used on the
island of Nunivak or south of the Kuskoquim River.

Il. THE ARCTIC TYPE.

This is a much shorter bow than the above (from 43 to 52 inches long),
narrow in proportion, and of a much more graceful shape (Fig. 8, No.
1972, from the Mackenzie region, collected by Ross). In section it is
nearly elliptical, flatter on the back than on the belly, with the handle
slightly narrowed and thickened. The greatest breadth is usually
about 14 inches, and the thickness at the handle about fj inch. The
ends are often bent up as in the second form of the southern type, and
when this is done the back is usually reinforced with a short rounded
strap of wood or antler in the bend. One bow (Fig. 9, No. 89245, from
Point Barrow, collected by our expedition) has these ends made of
separate pieces mortised on. Only one bow of this type in the collec-
tion has an extra rib, which is of antler and very small and short, but
the back is frequently covered with strips of sealskin, put on length-
wise.

The backing is always of braided sinew, and of a very complicated
and perfect pattern, usually very thoroughly incorporated with the bow
by means of hitches and a very complete seizing of many turns running
nearly the whole length of the bow and serving to equalize the distri-
bution of the strain and thus prevent cracking.

The backing is one continuous piece of cord, except in one case,
where the seizing is separate, and begins, as usual, with an eye, which
is slipped round the upper nock. The strands vary in number from 30
to 45 on a man’s bow (22-28 on a boy’s) of which 10-26 extend only
from bend to bend on a bow of the Tatar shape, or between the corre-
sponding points on a straight bow, and are then made fast by two or
three half-hitches each, or, as at Point Barrow, Wainwright’s Inlet, and
Point Hope, by complicated lashings made up of series of half-hitches,
often alternately in opposite directions, the last hitch or two held down
by extra round turns, and sometimes as many as a dozen hitches in a
series. Fig. 10 is this section of the same large bow, No. 89245, from
Point Barrow, figured above, and Fig. 11, the same part of No. 72771,
from Wainwright’s Inlet, also collected by our expedition.

A detailed description of the lashings of these bows, two of the most
complicated in the collection, will make these figures plain. The first
ESKIMO BOWS. atl

long strand on reaching the bend is hitched round the bow seven times
at intervals of about } to Linch. These ‘“under-hitches,” as they may
be called, occur always on bows of this type, sometimes made by the
first and sometimes by the last long strand, and serve to mark off the
position of the hitches of the short strands and give them a-point
Vappui. The first two of these are “two half-hitches,” or, ‘“ clove-
hitches,” as they are called at sea, the other five peculiar hitches (Fig.
12) not used by sailors. The hitch is well known and much used in
the artillery and ordnance service, and is there called a ‘‘clove-hiteh.”
As using this name would not distinguish the hitch from the common
**clove-hitch ” of seamen, I venture to suggest for it the name of ‘ sol-
dier’s hitch.” It is made by taking two round turns round the object to
be fastened to and bringing the end over the standing part and under
the two turns. If the turns are taken to the left, it makes Fig. 12;
if to the right, Fig. 13.

These hitches, especially the left-handed one, are much used by the
Eskimos not only on bows, but in putting on seizings upon spears, Xe.,
where a white seaman would use a “ marling-hitch.” The advantage of
this form of hitch seems to be that the second round turn keeps it from
slipping if the end gets loose.

To return to No. 89245: After making ‘‘ under-hitches” at both bends,
long strands are laid on till there are tenin all. Theeleventh, on reach-
ing the bend, makes two ‘“soldier’s hitches” at 1, and going to the
other nock is similarly hitched at the other bend, and then passes back-
wards and forwards between the bends, hitched each time nearer the
middle of the bow. The hitch at 2 is made thus: Two round turns to
the left, the end passed under both turns, and then two more round
turns, with the end passed over the second turn, under the first and
third, over the standing-part and third turn, making a double “ sol-
dier’s hitch.” At 3 are two simple half-hitches, and one made with two
round turns, followed by two round turns with the end passed under
both. At4isasimilar lashing with eight simple hitches; at 5, nine;
at 6, four; and at 7, two.

In No. 72771 there are five “‘ under hitches,” all ‘‘soldier’s hitches,”
made by the first long strand. The lashing at 1 is made by hitching
alternately to right and left five times. (Such hitching is called “ kack-
ling” by seamen.) At 2 itis “‘kackled” nine times, at 3 nine times,
and at 4 nine times again, ending with a half-hitch at 5.

It will easily be seen, as was suggested to me by Professor Mason, that
the strain of bending the bow, while tending to stretch and tighten each
longitudinal strand, at the same time tightens each individual turn of
these lashings, so that the greater the strain on the bow the tighter do
they grip the fibers of the wood and hold them together.

These hitches usually occupy 4 to 6 inches of the bow, and as a rule
are put on as above, so that the shortest strands come at the top of the
312 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884.

backing, though they are reversed on one bow from the Mackenzie re-
gion (Fig. 14 is this section of No. 1970, collected by Ross), so that the
longer of the strands are stretched across the bends, which adds some-
what to the tension of the bow, but makes a less neat and compact
lashing than the common arrangement. This arrangement of the short
strands brings the greatest strength across the middle of the bow, where
it is most needed.

All the strands between the hitches are divided into two equal par-
cels and twisted from the middle into two cables, thus greatly increas-
ing the tension to be overcome in drawing the string. These twocables
are fastened together by a sort of ‘ figure-of-8” knot, passing through
and around them, and are stopped firmly to the handle, after which the
whole is securely seized down with the end of the backing. This seiz-
ing is less complete in bows from the region of the Mackenzie. In one
case, after completing the seizing the end goes on to lay ona few strands
more, for a third cable, outside of and between the other two, which is
also twisted. (No. 89245, Figs. 9 and 10. End of cable cut off at a.)

The ends of the long strands, between the nocks and the hitches of
the short strands, are sometimes wound with separate pieces.

Bows of this pattern, differing only in details of the backing, are
used at the Mackenzie River, at Point Barrow, Wainwright’s Inlet,
Point Hope, and the Diomede Islands in Bering Strait, and probably at
intermediate points along the shores of the Arctic Ocean.

As was said above, there are no bows in the collection from Kotzebue
Sound or the Kaviak Peninsula, but from several points in the region
in question, namely, from Kotzebue Sound, Hotham Inlet, Sledge Island,
and Cape Nome, have been obtained many of the ingenious little tools
for twisting the cables, and always in pairs, indicating that a two-cable
bow of the Arctic type is the prevailing if not the only weapon of the
kind used in these localities.

The line of demarcation between this type and the preceding is not
sharply drawn, although there are no bows of the pattern which is ex-
elusively used as far north as Cape Romanzoff, in the collection from
north of Bering Strait.

From the Yukon delta we have one bow (Fig. 15, No. 33867, collected
by E. W. Nelson), which in proportional narrowness and thickness ap-
proaches the Arctic model, as it does in its complete seizing, though it
has a strong extra rib, and the genera] pa:tern of the backing is purely
southern. From the same region is another (Figs. 16 and 17, No.8822,
collected by W. H. Dall), which in outline and size is essentially of the
straight southern type, though slightly narrower than usual, while
the backing is put on entirely in the Arctic manner, except that the
seizing islesscomplete. A large bow from Norton Sound is of the same
model, but has the Arctic backing complete in allits details, as does also
a sinall boy’s bow from the same region. Still another from the same

ak

ESKIMO BOWS. 313

place is almost exactly of the Arctic type, except that it has square in-
stead of rounded edges and the strands are not twisted into cables.

When we consider that the Malemut of Norton Sound act as middle-
men between the natives of the Arctic coast and those of the Yukon re-
gion, it is natural to expect to find traces of Arctic ideas as far south as
their intercourse extends, namely, as I am informed, to the mouth of
the Yukon. Moreover it would be unlikely that the relatively weak
southern backing should be adopted by the northern natives.

Ill. THE WESTERN TYPE.

This is, in general, broader and flatter than the Arctic model, but less
contracted at the handle than the southern, and not so much tapered
at the ends, which are usually thick. It is rather a larger bow than the
Arctic, but not so large as the southern, being from 43 to 58 inches in
length and 1.5 to 1.7 inches broad, and like the others is either straight
or of the Tatar shape. Bows of purely western type are apparently al-
ways of the latter shape.

The peculiarity of the type is in the backing, as is well shown in the
bow figured (Figs. 18 and 19, No. 2505, probably from the mainland of
Siberia. It was collected by the North Pacific Exploring Expedition,
and is labeled simply “ Tschuktschis Indians”!). The backing, instead
of being continuous, is in three parts, namely, two short cables stretched
across the bends, where they do not go round the nocks, but are secured
by half-hitches close to them as well as inside the bends. The main
backing consists of 21 strands laid on between the bends with half-
hitches, and stopped down to the bow with a spiral seizing without be-
ing twisted or gathered into a wrapped cable.*

Three large and powerful bows from Saint Lawrence Island are of
the same peculiar type. It is, however, worthy of note that a single
“twister” of the same pattern as those used at Point Barrow was ob-
tained at Saint Lawrence Island by Mr. Nelson.

The bows used by the Eskimos of Eastern Siberia (“ Tuski,” “ Seden-
tary Chukches” of authors, Chuklukmut of Dall) present a mixture of
types. The bow figured above is purely western in type. Another
(Figs. 21 and 22, No. 2503, collected by the North Pacific Exploring
Expedition) is straight, but still has separate cables at the ends, pass-
ing, however, round the nocks. The main backing has upwards of sev-
enty strands and is twisted into three cables of the Arctic type.

A third (Figs. 23 and 24, No. 2506, collected by the North Pacific Ex-
ploring Expedition) approaches very close to the arctic type, but shows
traces of the western model in having the ends of the long strands
stretched across the bends and one single short strand returning to the

* There is a modification of the “‘ soldier’s hitch” in the seizing of this bow (Tig.
20), made by taking two round turns to the right, and passing the end under the stand-
ing part and between the two turns.
314 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884.

tip from beyond the bend,* while a fourth is precisely of the arctic type
with a very large number of strands.t

Several of these bows are made of oak, evidently barrel-staves ob-
tained from white men, but are, notwithstanding, provided with a pow-
erful backing, which shows how inseparably this invention, in its origin —
applicable only to inelastic wood, has become connected with the idea
of a bow in the mind of the maker.

Comparing what I have said of the geographical distribution of these
types of bow with the divisions of the Eskimos of the Northwest adopted
by Mr. Dall,i it will be seen that of the Western Mackenzie Innuit (his
first great division) the Kopagmut (Kupt/imeun of the Point Barrow
natives) and provably the Kangmaligmut (Kiimi/dlin of the same
people, an almost unknown tribe, concerning whom there appears to be
no reliable information), with probably all the Western Innuit except
the Chuklukmut, Kikht6’/gamut, and Mahlemut, use the pure arctic
type. The Chuklukmut and Kikht6’gamut use the western type, with
some admixture of the arctic. The Mahlemut and Unaligmut (the
northernmost tribe of Fishing Innuit) use the arctic and the southern
type and intermediate forms, while the remainder of the Fishing Innuit
use the pure southern type.

Assuming, as is highly probable, that all the branches of the Eskimo
race started with the primitive form of bow above described, the in-
habitants of the well-wooded shores of Bering Sea and the Gulf of
Alaska, who have a plentiful supply of fresh living spruce, have im-
proved on this type chiefly by lengthening and strengthening the wood
of the bow and collecting the loose strands into a compact round cable,
which is occasionally made somewhat thicker across the middle than
towards the ends.

Those who live on the treeless shores of the Arctic Ocean are forced
to depend on comparatively scarce dead and brittle drift-wood, and have
been obliged to devote their attention to the improvement of the sinew
backing in order to increase the efficiency of the weapon. The conse-
quence has been the development of the exceedingly complicated and
perfect form above described. This is probably the ultimate step in
the development of the sinew-backed bow. Not only is it difficult to
imagine making a more perfect weapon from the materials, but atten-
tion will no longer be paid to possible improvements in a weapon which —
is rapidly passing into disuse and becoming superseded by fire-arms.

The people of Saint Lawrence Island, out of the direct line of com-
munication between the two continents and also dependent on drift-
wood, have developed the bow in a different way from all the rest.

* A peculiar clove-hitch (Fig. 25) occurs at each end of this bow.

t This bow (No. 2507) has a reversed ‘‘soldier’s hitch” in the seizing (Fig. 26) in
which the end passes under the standing part and over the turns.

t Contributions to North American Ethnology, vol. i, p. 23.
ESKIMO BOWS. 315

They have, as it were, lengthened the ends of the bow beyond the origi-
nal backing, bent them up, and added extra cables across the bends.

On the mainland of Siberia, where the natives are in direct communi-
eation both with Saint Lawrence Island and the arctic shores of the
New World, by way of the Diomedes, the bow is of a pattern inter-
mediate between the types of these two regions, partaking more of the
characteristics of one or the other, according to the fancy of the maker,
perhaps as his dealings have brought him in contact with people of one
or the other region.

There is one bow in the Museum, not an Eskimo bow, which is inter-
esting in the present connection. It comes from Sitka, where the In-
dians use a plain spruce or cedar bow with a round back and flat belly.
The bow in question is of the same shape as the other bows from the
same locality, but the maker, who has evidently had some acquaint-
ance with the handiwork of the nearest Eskimos, has tried to improve
it by putting on a typical “southern” backing of sinew. This, how-
ever, is of but little use, as the round back of the bow is not of the
proper shape to receive it, and, in spite of the lashing round the handle,
it slips off to one side as soon as the bow is bent. I may remark that
the bow appears to be new and never to have been used.

Nore.—It should be borne in mind that what I have said about the
geographical distribution of the different forms of bow refers not to the
present time, but to the period when this weapon was in general use
among the Eskimos of the Northwest. Most of the material in the
Museum collection was either collected many years ago or shows signs
of having been old and disused when collected.

Fire-arms have so completely superseded the older weapon, especially
at the great trading centers like Saint Michael’s, that even in distant lo-
calities, like Point Barrow, it would be difficult to find half a dozen full-
sized bows fit for service. The boys still adhere to the bow for shoot-
ing small birds, &c., and for them it is still made as carefully as ever.

NOTE ON THE SINEW-TWISTING TOOLS.—In the above paper, I have
had occasion to speak of the toggles or levers used in twisting up the
cords of sinew on the back of the bow, making what I have called
“cables.” These are little flat rods of ivory or hard bone (Fig. 27, No.
89466, front and side view, from Point Barrow, collected by our expe-
_ dition), about four or five inches long, with the ends slightly bent in op-
posite directions. These rods serve a double purpose at Point Barrow,
for the natives use them for playing a game something of the nature
of “ pitch-penny.” We purchased a number of them under the impres-
sion that this was their only use, and it was not until we had beena long
time at the station that we were told that two of them made a set and
that they were used, somehow, in twisting the sinews on the back of
the bow. So few bows are now made that we had no opportunity of
seeing them in use.
316 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884.

In looking over the Museum collections on my return, I found large |
numbers of these tools, all essentially of the same pattern, and gener-
ally in pairs, often accompanied by a small ivory marlinespike. They
came from many localities along the coast from the Mackenzie region
to Norton Sound, and were variously labeled ‘bow tools,” ‘ bow-string
twisters,” and “arrow polishers” (!) without further explanation, ex-

cept in the case of one pair collected by Mr. Nelson, which were cata-—

logued as for “ tightening the sinew on a bow. Always used in pairs.”* —
I have been unable to find any published explanation of the method
of using these tools. After wasting much time in conjectures, I dis-
covered the modus operandi by actual experiment, while making a mod-
el of one of the Point Barrow bows. It is very ingenious, and is well

shown in the diagram (Figs. 28 and 29, drawn from a working model), —

The end a is thrust between the strands to be twisted, so that the hook

catches part of them, and the Jever making a half-revolution is brought |
up against the bow, as in Fig. 28. It can continue the twisting no fur-_
ther in this direction, and if withdrawn for a fresh start the strands —
would have to be held or fastened in some way, which would make the |
process a slow one. Accordingly, the rod is thrust through between |

the strands until the end b is where a was (Fig. 29), when the hook at |

b catches the strands and the lever is ready for another half-revolution.
This is continued, the rod slipping back and forth like the handle of:
a vise, until the cable is sufficiently twisted.

The reason for using them in pairs was not satisfactorily explained,
until Lieut. P. H. Ray, the commanding officer of our expedition, sug-
gested that they could be used simultaneously, one in each cable, so as
to secure the same amount of twist in the two. I tested this and found
it perfectly easy to work one with each hand.

The accompanying map isa tracing, with some modifications, of part
of Mr. Dall’s “Alaska and Adjoining Region.”

* Mr. Nelson has kindly favored me with all the information he was able to obtain
about these implements. He never saw them in actual use, but the natives of the
region about Norton Sound informed him that they were used for ‘‘ twisting the
sinew strands first and then for tightening the plaited or braided sinew backing to

the bows after the latter was in place.” He describes their use for twisting sinew to |

make the ‘“‘hard-laid sinew cord,” as follows: ‘‘The ends of the sinew cord are tied to
the small center holes in the two ivory pieces, one of the latter at each end of the

cord, and then they are twisted in opposite directions.” He tells me that they are’ |

also used for playing a game as at Point Barrow.

er ee ae

bashes aes LC
PLATE I.
(Murdoch. Eskimo bows.)

Mic. 1. Bow of reindeer antler, with simple backing of sinew, from Cumberland Gulf,
No. 34053. Collected by L. Kumlien. Side and back, reduced.
ag. 2. Straight bow, with simplest form of ‘‘Southern” backing, from near Cape

Romanzoff, No. 36032. Collected by E. W. Nelson.

Side and back, re-
duced.

4

Notr.—Every , reduced figure is accompanied by a scale, on which each
division represents one inch,

_-
PLATE I.

Report Nat. Mus. 1884.—Murdoch. Eskimo Bows.

Fic. 2.

Fic. 1.
PLATE II.

(Murdoch. Eskimo bows.)

Fig. 2a. One end of No, 36032 (from near Cape Romanzoff. Collected by E. W. Nel-
son) to show attachment of the backing to the nock. Natural size.

Fig. 3. Straight bow, with ‘‘Southern” backing, in which some strands are short,
No. 72408, from Bristol Bay. Collected by the late C. L. McKay. Back,
reduced.

Fic. 3a. The broadest part of the same bow, to show the attachment of the short
strands. Natural size.
PLATE Ik

Eskimo Bows.

Report Nat. Mus. 1884 —Murdoch.

FIG. 3a.

PLATE III.

(Murdoch. Eskimo bows.)

Fig. 4. Straight bow, with ‘‘Southern” backing, No. 7972, from Bristol Bay. Col- |
lected by Dr. Minor. One-half of back, reduced, to show spiral seizing. .

Fic. 5. Bow with bent ends, with ‘‘Southern” backing, strung, No. 36028, from the |
youth of the Kuskoquim river. Collected by E. W. Nelson. Side, re- |
duced.

Fic. 6. Large straight bow, with ‘‘Southern” backing, twisted, No. 15651, from
Nunivak Island. Collected by W. H. Dall. One-half of back, reduced.

Fic. 7. Straight bow, with ‘‘Southern” backing, No. 36034. Collected by E. W.
Nelson. One-half of back, reduced.
PLATE If.

Report Nat. Mus. 1884—Murdoch. Eskimo Bows.

CP) Sarmtrr lg

ao al Ty s

——— =—\\\\ ane Sens Zs NN . ea AA ell 3 ¢

S ——-) == eee a = pastes a NE —— Ht ny (Sig Has S
amar aay ——

CAS a £

PARE Ve
(Murdoch. Eskimo bows.)

Fic. 8. Straight bow of “Arctic” type, strung, No. 1972, from the Mackenzie region.
Collected by Ross. Side and back, reduced.

Fic. 9. Bow of Tatar shape, with “ Arctic” backing, No. 89245, from Point Barrow.
Collected by United States International Polar Expedition. Side, reduced.

lig. 12. Left-handed ‘‘soldier’s hitch.”

Fig. 13. Right-handed ‘‘soldier’s hitch.”
PLATE Iv.

Report Nat. Mus. 1884.—Murdoch. Eskimo Bows.

Ti \ NUL |}'0teneaseaeese

a 2 a A A FY TU eee |
PERy BE Roe € pp fp po fee bemp perme mepenmee |
EE SS RE QOS FER) SR IW SG 229 OE STS SSS

loss

mae ewe UA) Hli//

LL

y
DW

Fic.

Fic. 8.
PLATE V.

(Murdoch. Eskimo bows.)

Fic. 10. Section of ‘‘ Arctic” bow, No. 89245, to show method of attaching the short
strands. Natural size.

Fic. 11. Same section of No. 72771, from Wainwright’s Inlet. Collected by United
States International Polar Expedition, Natural size.
Report Nat. Mus. 1884.—Murdoch. Eskimo Bows. PLATE V.

g
%
uy

4 Mf Rie e ay Ee
i 4
ee ae

LSS OO
£m —?
SY,

Set SS
= <<y, * AALS mes

= SN eS ae = Sececees
‘ Sy = GPP

fac

ers »
SU")

SES ECASKE OFS 2S. XE = ETE is

Fig. 10. Fia. 11.
PLATE VL
(Murdoch. Eskimo bows.)

Fic. 14. Section of an “Arctic” bow (No. 1970, from the Mackenzie region. Collected
by Ross) to show the peculiar (reversed) attachment of the short strands.
Natural size.

Fic. 15. Straight ‘‘ Southern ” bow, No. 33867, from the Yukon delta. Collected by
E. W. Nelson, unusually thick and narrow, with complete spiral seizing.
Back and side, reduced.
PLATE VI.

opm , : ee
Set | $$ eee Ugtgugnsitersrsscnsscn se ewenesase ase S Sone
ee << weer, |

SSrocet|

4/00 at |=

15.

Fic.

Eskimo Bows.

Report Nat. Mus. 1884.—Murdoch.

CSU yy ===t ARE jones = SS q ee AAA oa

FEEL YEE ETDS YA AY a

Fie. 14.
PLATE VII.

(Murdoch. Eskimo bows.)

Fia. 16. Straight bow of ‘‘Southern” model, with ‘‘Arctic” backing, No. 8822, from
the Yukon delta. Collected by W. H. Dall. Back, reduced.

Fic. 17. Section of the same bow, natural size, to show the athaghmene of the short.
strands. :

Fic. 18. Bow of ‘‘ Western” type, No. 2505, from the mainland of Siberia. Collected
by the North Pacific Exploring Expedition. Back and side, reduced. |

:
:
PLATE VII.

Report Nat. Mus. 1884.—Murdoch. Eskimo Bows.

‘el SE

SS

[Nes

<2 S25 SF!

LY,
The
fa /

Fic, 17.

WW?

Fic. 18

Fic. 16.
PLATE VIII.
(Murdoch. Eskimo bows.)

Fig. 19. Section of No. 2505, to show the attachment of the end cable, underneat
the backing. Natural size.

Fie. 20. Modified ‘“soldier’s hitch, ” used on seizing of No. 2505.

Fig. 21. Straight bow, with ‘‘ Western” backing, No. 2508, from Eastern Siberia.
Collected by the North Pacific Exploring Expedition. Back, reduced.

PLATE VIIL

Report Nat. Mus. 1884.—Murdoch. Eskimo Bows.

a WIA SS Neate PAVATAA AAW AN. 2... SOLE ERRRED Ba nwn'e mith FaRVBEEY :
0 —__ AIT INA A Na eit \ on en Od

Fie.

Ke ‘

: PUG VN, W901

[ t yg -
———— a a f j y, f
= j fj WY) \

= ; \ Z
[\
AY

me cg eae \

‘niga si ak)
’ pe aa ‘
en —— er
ED :p

Fic. 19.

ee
Oe ew PL

=

——_——_—

i

Fic. 20.
PLATE IX.
(Murdoch. Eskimo bows.)

Fa. 22, Section of No. 2505, to show the attachment of the end cable, underneath
the backing. Natural size.

Kia. 23. Bow with ‘“‘Arctic” backing, modified so as to approach the “‘ Western,” No.
2596, from Eastern Siberia. Collected by the North Pacific Exploring Ex-
pedition. Back and side, reduced.
Report Nat. Mus. 1884.—Murdoch. Eskimo Bows. PLATE IX.

FN eon

4g@Zaaze

ri=4

Wf

Bf

A,
\\

ry WwW

a

{Bgg <<
abies :

LS

2, [ee (iil, Sel S|

WY,

Sa e

=)

SSS
——

in a Se OS

=

&

Wi

—
—

Fic. 22.
PLATE X.
(Murdoch. Eskimo bows.)

Fig. 24. Section of No. 2506, to show the attachment of the single short strand, re-
turning from bend to nock. Natural size.

Fic. 25. Peculiar clove-hitch used on the same bow,

Fie. 26. Reversed ‘‘soldier’s hitch” in the seizing of No. 2507, from Eastern Siberia.
Collected by the North Pacific Exploring Expedition.

Fic. 27. Sinew-twisting tool of ivory, No. 89466, from Point Barrow. Collected by
United States International Polar Expedition. Front and side, natural
ize.
Report Nat. Mus. 1884.—Murdoch. Eskimo Bows. PLATE X.

ee ee es
gee i 4

ee

KA)
aah .
Ri.

,

Fae

ar
> ot cage

rr.

: ==

La
out

PLATE XI.
(Murdoch. Eskimo bows.)

The process of twisting the two “cables” of the “Arctic” backing. From a working
model, reduced one-half.

Fic. 28. Position of the tools at the end of a half-turn.
Fia. 29. Position of the same, with the tools slipped through to begin a new half-turn.
Report Nat. Mus. 1884.—Murdoch. Eskimo Bows. PLATE XI.

Fic. 28.

Fic. 39.
PLATE XII.
(Murdoch. Eskimo bows.)

A map to illustrate the distribution of Eskimo bows in Alaska and the neighboring
regions. (A tracing, with some modifications, from Mr. Dall’s ‘‘Alaska and the
Adjoining Region.”)
Report Nat. Mus. 1884.—Murdoch. Eskimo Bows. PLATE XII.

;

Ancric OCEAN.
/

¢ Sy

ey 5. Weed

Bering Sea a \F Madi ak Id. (Se
— ‘ Vp

f>

Seallds. .

¢ J
agp Pon Ry, TO SHOW THE DISTRIBUTION OF THE

|
mabe fied! Egkime Bows. |

/
“ A. Arctic Type
S. Sauthern Type.
W. Western Type.

me : Nid

bel
<i enh tacos ele fe aie Rhatactehans eeepitaln

j

IV.—ON A SPOTTED DOLPHIN APPARENTLY IDENTICAL WITH
THE PRODELPHINUS DORIS OF GRAY.

By FREDERICK W. TRUE.

Upon the return of the U. S. Fish Commission steamer Albatross
from an expedition to the island of Cozumel, in the spring of the pres-
ent year, the naturalists attached to the vessel informed me that
while in the Gulf of Mexico they fell in with a large school of dolphins
of very peculiar appearance, the back being covered with white spots.
The descriptions of the animal aroused my curiosity, and at my sug-
gestion Professor Baird, Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, im-
mediately offered a reward for the capture of one or more individuals
of the species. Messrs. Warren and Stearns, fish dealers of Pensacola,
Fla., very kindly offered to direct the attention of the fishermen to
the matter, and so efficient were their services that on the 3d of June,
only a few weeks after the presence of the species in the Gulf was first
made known, we received by steamer an adult male in perfect preserva-
tion.

Judging from the remarks of the naturalists of the Albatross, and
the fact that a specimen was so quickly secured by the Pensacola fisher-
men, it would appear that the species is abundant in the Gulf. Further-
more, upon the return of the Albatross from a cruise on the Hatteras
ground, only a few days after the Pensacola specimen was received, I
was informed that great schools of a spotted dolphin, apparently iden-
tical with the latter, were seen in that locality. Two individuals, in
fact, were harpooned, but broke away and sunk before they could be
hauled up to the deck of the steamer.

The Pensacola dolphin was certainly the most beautiful cetacean I
have ever examined. The outlines of the body were very graceful, and
the gray tints of the sides and the spots on the lower surfaces exqui-
sitely delicate. Upon the first superficial examination I was convinced
that I had before me a representative of the genus Prodelphinus, but to
reach a conclusion concerning the species was a far more difficult mat-
ter. In the title of this essay I have adopted the name of P. doris

317
318 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884.

(Gray). My reasons for so doing will be presented after the characters
of the exterior and skeleton have been described.

EXTERNAL MORPHOLOGY.

An adult male dolphin 85 inches in length. The general conforma-
tion of the body is similar to that of Delphinus delphis, but the dorsal
fin is higher and more arched, the pectoral fins are somewhat broader,
and the tail is deeper at the insertion of the flukes. The snout (the
upper and lower jaws taken together) is of moderate length, stout, and
about a third deeper than broad. The lower jaw does not project be-
yond the upper. The outlines of the lips are slightly concave. The
pectoral fins and the flukes present no peculiarity of form, being gently
and evenly convex anteriorly, and similarly concave posteriorly, and ob-
tusely pointed at the tip. The dorsal is strongly bent backward, a line
connecting the tip and center of the base, when prolonged making an
angle of 45° with a line connecting the extremity of the beak and the
notch of the flukes. The anterior margin is straight in the lower three-
fourths of its length, then rather strongly curved backward; the con-
cavity of the posterior margin forms an arc of a circle.

The distribution of color is peculiar and somewhat difficult to describe.
Beginning at the base of the dorsal fin and passing downward the color
is first dark purplish slate, and becomes gradually lighter until the
middle of the side is reached. At this latter point it grades somewhat
more rapidly into the pure white of the belly. From the line of the
anus backward, and from the region of the pectoral fin forward, the
dark color of the back extends down much lower. There is no pure
white posterior to the anus. The dark color involves the head and
beak and the extremity of lower jaw. It also borders the sides of the
latter to a depth of two or three inches. The entire body is covered
with spots of dark and light color, the largest of which are about
18™" in length. A line connecting the center of the base of the dorsal
fin with the median line of the belly is twenty-two inches in length.
Beginning at the top, in the first four inches the body is about free from
spots; the next seven inches are occupied by large, light, slate-colored
spots on a dark ground; and the remaining eleven inches are occupied
by large, dark, slate-colored spots on a light ground. Speaking gener-
ally, where the body is dark the spots are light, and vice versa. This
is true of the dark post-anal region and the head. The flukes, dorsal
fin, and pectoral fin are dark like the back, and all are covered with
small light-colored spots. The latter are scarcely perceptible on the
flukes. Upon examination of the plates, especially that showing the
under side of the body, it will appear that the dark spots, which are
roughly elliptical in outline, change direction in different regions of the
body. Beginning on the inferior surface of the lower jaw, it will be ob-
served that the axes of the spots converge toward the median line of
the belly as far as a point slightly anterior to the pectorals; then they

SPOTTED DOLPHIN. 319

diverge abruptly to the line of the hinder edge of the pectorals, posterior
to which the spots of the sides again converge toward the median line.
On the sides there is a similar change of direction, which is especially
noticeable over the pectoral fin. It is to be remarked that there is a
Similar change in direction in the lines of light color on D. delphis and
other species.

Measurements of the exterior of Prodelphinus doris, No. 15030, 3.

Centimeters.
Rs ie wa eam ee names Hane cae ens bine bee gay aaa dae MeEb aap eos 215.7
TE A SE SE ee Oe ee ee eS Ae ee On le 5 ey ae 28.0
SERN II an ow we a one gdh as 6 cun mace dee meeneee xan SonT
mena MF IO WONG co. 5. So is sans mc annvgngpenwawmed seems 34.7
Extremity of snout to anterior base of pectoral fin ...............--.....----- 50. 7
Extremity of snout to anterior base of dorsal fin ....................--------- 104.5
Extremity of snout to anterior end of genital slit ..................-...------ 134.3
LL eee eee eee ore 153.5
Length of pectoral fin-- Se ee ie ee ae as cia ok Sw at owe) Smee alas ee ae OU
Greatest breadth of pebibral fin Beemer ese ss oak at oemahe eae See eee 12.6
Mi tarestmOrte UT POCLOLAUET 8-00 oe ons os wins a twee ce ewe cee ons cee e eee. 11.9
Distance between bases of pectoral fins on under side of body ..--........---- 2iks
eee eR OH ONOTIN Gat oe Faro). cs Gerte~ 3c'o5)3teh icy «ob oo eee eee eats 13.9
i iia iene oon wind cx Sk is aim hae eed ee 2.0
LEP ALT) 221 01d (2, ees a nea Se eS ae valaie aiare Sey a ee Od,
REIN teeta in he ae cee an ee ren ka Saas. caen senere wage hace uet ween 16.0
Length of anterior margin of dorsal fin (following curve) ........-...-.-.---. 44,3
murnmmmentaniese Muiremah Mais 2152 5212S) clo lee el Ee 24. 1
ee CL MOTRRE 2-080. noackiae cess fd aeas bancec nose scisontaeuensawe 36. 7
er Seti ou oh na 5 eee ad See R URW EOS bib. oc Jobs cece Wave edge oe 12.7
A SS ee ee ee eee eaten 2.8
EAE PLOW HOMO: 222 5a Sosa desetioos secs s Sosse sees col dee hse eee 2.5

OSTEOLOGY.

The skull has the form of the type specimen of Prodelphinus doris, with
which the species is believed to be identical. The length of the beak is
a little less than three-fifths that of the skull; its width at the middleis
one-eighth the total length. The intermaxillaries are high and rounded.
The palate is generally flat, but with a deep channel in the median line
anteriorly, in which the vomer becomes visible. The pterygoids, which
meet in the median line, are very long, making the distance from their
extremity to the tip of the beak three-fourths the length of the skull.
They stand on araised table 3.5 broad. The prenarial triangle is
short (about 7.6°™), depressed, and rugose in the anterior part. The
temporal fosse are large and rounded. Teeth **%; the crown of the
largest tooth .8e long, .5°" in diameter at the base. They are slightly
worn at the tips.

The vertebral formula is as follows: C. 7; D. 14, L. and Ca. 48 = 69.
The atlas and axis are united, but the remaining cervicals are free.
Except that the neural spine of the atlas is not bifurcated, the cervical
vertebre present no salient characters by which they could be distin-
320 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884.

guished from those of D. delphis. The inferior transverse process of |

the sixth cervical is large and hamular.*

The neural spines of the dorsal vertebre are somewhat broader than ©
in D. delphis, but otherwise the vertebrae resemble those of that species —

very closely. The first five pairs of ribs possess heads, which touch the |

centra of the vertebra. Anterior zygapophyses become obsolete at the

thirtieth vertebra (counting from the atlas). They begin again at the ©

fortieth vertebra. There are nineteen chevrons, the first of which is
attached to the fortieth vertebra.

The sternum consisted originally of three pieces, but the first two
are anchylosed together. The scapula is very similar to that of P. mar-
ginatus as figured by Messrs. Van Beneden and Gervais (Osteog. des
Cétacés, pl. XL, fig. 23), except that the acromion is considerably more
expanded.

The formula for the phalanges is as follows: I, 2; II, 9; III, 7; IV,
3; V,1. The position of the metacarpal of the pollex is somewhat pe-
culiar. It does not form a part of the radial margin of the hand, but its
outer border is in a line with the median axis of the first phalanx. On
the outer surface of the carpus a small bone is visible, situated between
the metacarpals of the first and second fingers and the bones reckoned
as scaphoid and trapezoid by Professor Flower. This should be a ru-
dimentary trapezium if the system of Professor Flower be adopted.

The pelvic bones are about 8 centimeters in length and are sigmoid in

outline.
Measurements of the-skeleton.

Centimeters.
Greatest breadthyof atlas. 2 )c\.0 4: o.cesceeh ata pant ncaeees + sbeee eee ee a 13. 2
Greatest height of atlas .............---. <--..--- Sia Steeneleyenies eho ae atenete 9.8
Greatest. breadth of first dorsal ......20eh JEST ee). | boon, Sees See eee 9.2
Greatest height. of first dorsal «2.3. sc2c6s cosoessskens secon eon seseeeieeee ee 8.4
Greatest breadthiof( first Tumbar:..i\.207 sauce 2 3ue.2 2 jetties feds eoa2 Jee 19.5
Grentest height,of first Inmbar 2.2552 Sep is sees. bee wei cuej- ps pe eemene eee 14.1
Greatest, length of scapula..ce ts sechende c- ts caenbeenseenontsnessadedan meses 19:7
Greatest height of seapwls inc2 a pala's- seme wena delat Soe cinn se cmele sins sce aa een
Greatest length ‘of pectoral dint. -2<- o..02.06 «0am cela dinee ste co sce n each eee se See
Greatest length of longest rib in Hee Hane. 223.45 Uh Se eae ee ce ee ee
Groatest length of lstermum....2.(25:../52 “see ad Sesideice 2 UL Loe 2 0s aa
Greatest breadth of sternum . soem asthe bre bed GR ep» atopithe ties pe merce hte aye an menne

* I find that the possession of a large inferior transverse process is not a safe guide
to the position of the vertebra in the cervical series. In a large collection.of cervical
vertebra of T. tursio, in some cases the inferier transverse process of the fifth vertebra
is greatly expanded and in other cases that of the sixth vertebra.

SPOTTED’ DOLPHIN. got

Measurements of the skull of Prodelphinus doris, No. 44342, 3; the type of P. plagivdon,
No. 3884; and the type of P. doris, British Museum, No. 352a.

. OW Type of P. pla- | T y Dewor ee.
BS ee giodon, No. | doris, No.
Nat Mus. 3884, U. S. 352a, Brit
Measurements. , ‘ . Nat. Mus. Mus.

em. |100ths. em. |100ths.| cm. | 100ths.

es eae 2 A ts et ee
TTL ee I a EE Al = pa a 46.2 100.0 43.1 | 100. 0 39.2} 100.0
CS 2 ESS "ee es a ey 26.9 682; 243) 565) 23.4 59.9
Breadth of beak at base of notches -.--..-- eet 10.1 21.9 9.1 21.2 9. 4 | 23.9
Breadth of beak atits middle . ..................-. 5.8 12. 6 | 5.6) 12.9 4.9 11.9
Breadth of intermaxillaries at same point ..-.-...-.. 3.3 Wank 2.8 6.5 2.7 | Tt
Greatest breadth between outer margins of inter-
TIMCIMATION PYOXUIMAUY « .---- een ne sos. c conn ees | Bal |) 417.6 7.8 18. 2 7.3 | 18.8
PaaS OLA COOMA EI DFS 252 cs 2 pine 'sos Sot wie sd sceceessss 23.6 51.1 21.0} 482 20. 2 51.8
Last tooth to base of maxillary notch.-........-..-... 5.3 11.5 | 4.6 10. 6 4.0 10.4
Tip of beak to anterior margin superior nasal open i |
eae ce te cn a OSE RE See isc | 82.4 Ori sos Ou G5: 9 |" 26.9 68. 6
Tip ‘of beak to end of crest of prergeoid: © 2.2... 423 34.7 TORE Hele enol ae nen j 28.7 | 73. 1
Breadth between orbital processes of frontal : 18.5 40.1 18.0 41.8 16.3 | 41.7
Breadth between hinder margins of temporal foss@.| 14.4 31.3 14.2 32.9 13.1 33.3
Length of temporal fossa ....................-....- | 8.1 17.6 8.1 18.8 (eal 18.1
Depth of temporal fossa .............-----.e2ee--0e- | 56] 121) @1 14.1 5.3 13.6
Motaljlensth ofmaendible .....-......-..<.s0...60. | 89.2 85. 2 36.7 85. 2 33.8 86.4
Depth between angle and coronoid process. ......--. 7.3 16.9} 7.1 16.5 6.0 15.5
Heigbt of crown of largest tooth .........-....-...- Aloe NaS AAS He Seas Ieee Sa Ion ones eee eee
Greatest diameter of crown at base ...........-..---! meg ie aoe lewscee Pee oe pea (fe
vr. 7 35-35 3
Rn ORI GORN ao tee dos on s< ane wine <a ee = a ees | gag |-"- Pray ere
TAXONOMY.

The majority of species of Delphinide are founded upon single skulls.
All dolphins’ skulls differ from one another to a greater or less extent,
and it is impossible, therefore, to find any which will agree exactly with
the types. Furthermore, the limits of cranial variation have been deter-
mined only in the case of two or three well-known species. For these
reasons there is a strong temptation, when a fresh specimen of which
the external characters are undescribed is acquired, to erect a new spe-
cies. The skull presents differences which separate it from the type
skulls of any previously described species, and there is no criterion by
which one may judge whether these differences are of specific value or
only represent individual variation. Such is especially the case in the
genus Prodelphinus, in which the species may be as few as three or four
or aS many as twenty or twenty-five.

Under these circumstances there is no escape from a very unpleasant
dilemma. If a new species is erected, there is constantly a suspicion
that it is identical with some one previously described from the skull ;
while, on the other hand, if the newly acquired specimen is referred to
a species already in the literature, there is always the possibility that
if the external characters of the latter were known they would prove
the two to be distinct. It is seldom that cetologists have the oppor-
tunity to compare large numbers of individuals of the same species
in a fresh state, except in the case of such forms as Globiocephalus, of
whieh large schools are frequently stranded. It is imperative that we
should make careful study of such material, and from the results of such

S. Mis. 33, pt. 2—21
322 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884.

investigation draw our opinions regarding the variations of other spe-
cies. In the present instance it is hoped that a considerable number of
crania may be secured at no distant day.

What has been said concerning species described from single skulls
holds true for species described from’ external characters only, and of
which no measurements are recorded or specimens preserved. It is
doubtful whether such species should be recognized.

At least three species have been described which, so far as external
appearance is concerned, bear a more or less close resemblance to the
specimen under consideration.

First may be mentioned the Delphinus maculatus of Lesson and Garnot,
(Zool. Voyage Coquille, p. 183), seen in the vicinity of the Society Islands.
This quondam species has the sides and belly impure grey, with rounded
white spots margined with rose-color. As this is one of the species vus
en mers et dessinés a distance, it is scarcely worthy of serious considera-
tion, but it is evident that even so far as the spots are concerned—the
only definite character given—it bears no close resemblance to the Pen-
sacola dolphin, and it may therefore be dismissed.

Another spotted species is the Delphinus Boryi of Desmarest (Mam-
malogie, p. 513), from Madagascar. Its colors are thus described:
‘¢Dessus du corps d’un gris de souris fort tendre; dessous d’un gris
trés clair, avec des taches, peu tranchées, d’un gris-bleuadtre; cdtés de
la téte @un blanc d’ivoire, nettement séparé par une ligne droite, de la
couleur du dessus.” The color of the head and of the spots is evidently
quite different from that of the specimen under consideration.

A third species, with a spotted skin, is the Delphinus Pernetyi of Des-
marest (Mam., p. 513). Pernety’s figure, though somewhat crude, evi-
dently represents a species whose coloration is similar to that of our
Pensacola dolphin. The transition from light to dark color is represented
as very abrupt, the light color involves the eye and the beak, and the
back is without spots, in all of which characters Pernety’s dolphin differs
from that represented in the plates accompanying this essay. The last
character, however, seems to be of little significance. I was informed
by one of the naturalists of the Albatross that in the schools seen off
Hatteras the young animals were not spotted on the back.

If our Pensacola specimen is to be accredited to any species known
only by the exterior, I believe it should be to this D. Pernetyi. As no
portions of the animal were preserved, however, and no diagnosis or
measurements were given, I think it undesirable to withdraw the
species in question from the list of espéces douteuses.

There is at least one other species which seems to bear some relation
to that under consideration. This is the Delphinus punctatus of Gray.
A skeleton, drawing and measurements of this animal are preserved in
the Public Museum of Liverpool, where I examined them in the winter
of 1883-84. Gray’s figure (Cat. Seals and Whales, p. 399) is a correct

Cale Ean.

SPOTTED DOLPHIN. aoe

reproduction of the somewhat crude original. The whole lower part
of the body, including the pectorals and beak and a band over the tail,
is represented as being of a very dark stone-color, while the upper half
is black. The whole body is sparingly covered with irregular white
spots. In having light-colored pectorals and beak and a lunate band
of light color over the tail, this animal appears to differ from the Pen-
sacola specimen. The skulls are quite similar, but the beak is longer
and narrower in D. punctatus and the teeth are more numerous (/*). The
skeleton, on account of restricted time, I was unable to examine in de-
tail.

A comparison with the species known only from the skull is not
entirely satisfactory. The Pensacola specimen is identical, in the first
place, with the D. plagiodon described by Professor Cope in 1866 (P. A.
N.S. P., 1866, p. 296) from a single skull, without locality, contained in
the collections of the National Museum. I have compared the two
skulls with each other and can find no differences of importance. (See
measurements, p. 321.) D. plagiodon, however, as Professor Cope him-
self suspected, would appear to be identical with Prodelphinus doris
(Gray). (See measurements, p. 321.)

The type of the latter species is considerably smaller than that of
P. plagiodon, but agrees with it closely in detail. So far the identifica-
tion is reasonably sure, and it is, perhaps, best that we should not
attempt to seek an earlier name. If we do we fall inevitably into per-
plexity. There are a number of skulls in the Paris Museum labeled
P. dubius, which, as Proressor Flower has already pointed out, show a
great similarity to the type of P. doris; but we do not know to which
particular specimen Cuvier first applied the name, and bis description
is too vague to be of any value where closely allied species are con-
cerned. Furthermore, the skulls labeled P. dubius agree with others
bearing different names, notably with one called P. brevimanus, of which
the external form and color were made known by Hombron and Jacquinot
(in Voyage de l’Astrolabe, Zool., 1840, pl. 21), and of which the skele-
ton and skin are still preserved. In color and number of vertebre this
specimen does not agree with our Pensacola animal, and thus we find
that our chain of resemblances will not meet at the ends. The case is
the same upon comparing P. frenatus, P. frontalis, and other species.
We are forced, therefore, to fall back on P. doris, the earliest described
species with which our specimen can be satisfactorily identified.

Diagnosis of the species.
PRODELPHINUS DORIS (Gray) Flower.
Delphinus Doris, Gray, Zool. Ereb. & Terr., 1846, p. 39, pl. xx.

Delphinus (Cephalorhynchus) Doris, Gray, Cat. Mam. Brit. Mus., Cetacea, 1850, p. 114,
Tursio Doris, Gray, Cat. Seals & Whales, 1866, p. 255.
324 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884.

Ciymenia Doris, Gray, Synopsis Whales & Dolphins, 1868, p. 6.
Prodelphinus doris, Flower, List of Cetacea Brit. Mus., 1885, p. 29.
Delphinus plagiodon, Cope, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1866, p. 296.

FEMALE 2?

MaLu—Uxterior.—Form of D. delphis, with higher and more arched |

dorsal fin and broader pectoral fins. Back, dorsal fin, flukes, upper

part of head, and pectoral fins dark slate-color, growing gradually —
lighter on the sides. Belly and lower half of sides white. The dark- —

colored upper half of the body, tail, and fins spotted with white or
light slate-color; light-colored lower half spotted with dark slate-color.

Skull.—Length of beak three-fifths and width at middle one-eighth
jength of skull. Intermaxillaries high and rounded. Prenarial triangle
short, depressed, rather less than one-third the length of the beak.
Temporal fosse large, rounded, their length about one-eighth that of

37
the skull. Teeth 34°

Skeleton.—Vertebral formula: C. 7; D. 14; L. and Ca. 48=69.

During a superficial examination of the viscera no especial peculiari-
ties were noticed except so faras the penis was concerned. This organ,
instead of having the tapering form common among the dolphins, is
lingulate, strongly flattened, and obtusely pointed. The orifice is in-
ferior.

The testicles were of immense size, showing that the animal was capt-
ured in the rutting season. They measured 30° in length.

The intestine measured 60 feet in length, and is, therefore, short
compared with Tursiops tursio, Delphinus delphis, and some other
species. The stomach, which was of the normal form, was filled with
the bones of the scuppaug (Stenotomus) and a species of sea-robin
(Prionotus).

The animal had met with a severe accident in the course of its career,
the fifty fourth to the fifty-seventh caudal vertebre being broken and
soldered together. The margin of the caudal peduncle above these ver-
tebree was broken by deep grooves, and a swelling of considerable size
was visible on its side.

Report Nat. Mus. 1884.—True. Spotted Dolphin. z PLAT? IT.

4

Prodelphinus doris, Gray. Lateral view.

SEE E—EE—= m= St
Ove

Report Nat. Mus. 1884.—True. Spotted Dolphin.

Prodelphinus doris, (Gray ).

View trom below.

PLATE II.
Report Nat. Mus. 1884.—True. Spotted Dolphin. PLATE IIi.

Skull of Prodelphinus doris, (Gray). View from above.
Report Nat. Mus. 1884.—True. Spotted Dolphin. PLATE IV.

Skull of Prodelphinus plagiodon, (Cope). Type. View from above.

(Published by permission of the U. S. Commissioner of Fish and Fisheries.)
PLATE V.

Report Nat. Mns. 1884.—True. Spotted Dolphin.

Sg recaUtte GOK aca. an,

Skull of Prodelphinus doris, (Gray.) View from below.
ae

ty

aa
ERS Sy

Report Nat. Mus. 1884.—True. Spotted Dolphin. PLATE

Skull of Prodelphinus plagiodon, (Cope). Type. View from below.

(Published by permission of the U. S. Commissioner of Fish and Fisheries.)

VI.
Y.—THE FLORIDA MUSKRAT (NEOFIBER ALLENI, TRUE).

By FREDERICK W. TRUE.

In the summer of 1884 I made known for the first time the charac-
teristics of a peculiar rodent, a single specimen of which was received
from Florida in December of the previous year.* No additional speci-
mens of the animal have been thus far received, nor any new informa-
tion regarding its habits and distribution. It is my purpose in this
paper simply to describe in detail the superficies and skeleton of the
original specimen and to discuss its*generic and specific characters.

The type specimen was procured by William Wittfeld, Esq., a corre-
spondent of the Smithsonian Institution, in the vicinity of Georgiana,
Brevard County, Florida. Georgiana is situated on Merritt’s Island,
at the northern extremity of Indian River, nearly opposite Cape Cana.
veral. The island is about 35 miles in length from north to south, and
some 5 or 6 miles iu breadth at the widest part. It is separated from
the mainland by a strait about 5 miles in breadth.

The collection in which the round-tailed muskrat was found con-
tained representatives of Mus rattus, Hesperomys leucopus, Scalops aquati-
cus, and a species of Sorex.

NEOFIBER, True.

Neofiber, Science, iv, 75, p. 34, July 11, 1884; Proc. U.S. Nat. Mus., vii, p. 170, July
29, 1884.

Form, arvicoline. Tail nearly as long as body, terete, nearly naked.
Hind toes in a line with the metatarsals, scarcely webbed. Thumb with
a claw.

Anterior cusps of molars rounded interiorly, acute externally. Last
lower molar with 4 cusps, re-entrant angles alternating.

Parietals widest in front, but with an angular postero-lateral exten-
sion. Interparietal wider than long. Surface of mastoid not deeply
concave.

Pelvis and pes not longer than skull. Transverse processes of lum-

* Science, iv, No. 75, July 11, 1884, p. 34. Proc. U.S, Nat. Mus., vii, 1884, pp. 170—
172 (July 29).

325
326 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884.

bar vertebre short; those of the caudal vertebra, except the first four,
rudimentary. Vertebre: C.7; D.13; L.6; 8.4; Ca. 25 = 55,

NEOFIBER ALLENI, True.

Neofiber Alleni, True, Science, iv, No. 75, 1884, p. 34; Proc. U. 8. Nat. Mus., vii, 1884,
p. 170.

A muskrat of less than half the size of Fiber zibethicus, but of the
same general form. Eyes small and high up on the head. Ears mod-
erate, broad and rounded, hirsute within the conch, the longest hairs
extending 0.8 beyond the margin. Border of the conch slightly and
unevenly notched. Fore feet as in F’. zibethicus. Palm black, except
the two large posterior tubercles and the base of the thumb. Hind
feet moderate, not equaling twice the length of the fore-feet. Soles
naked, smooth, black, and 5-tuberculate.

The posterior internal tubercle large and oval in outline. The remain-
ing four, situated respectively at the angle between the 1st and 2d toes,
between the 2d and 3d, between the 3d and 4th, and between the 4th
and 5th; all small and of equal,size. Soles narrow. Toes not in-
clined laterally at an angle with the sole. Fringe of the toes and sole
not extending prominently below the plane of their lower surface.

Toes of the fore and hind feet only slightly webbed. Claws horn-
colored. ‘Tail round, about 0.6 in diameter at the base and tapering
gradually to the tip. Sparsely clothed with short blackish hairs, be-
tween which the tail appears covered with rows of scales, as in Jus.

Color of the hair of the body above as in F’. zibethicus; rich rufous at
the upper two-fifths and lead-color at the base. In a small area just
behind the shoulders the base of the hairs is white. Color of the head
the same as of the body, but darker. Hair of the under surface of
the body light rufous at the upper third, lead-color at the base. Chin,
throat, and inner side of the fore arms and legs white or but faintly
tinged with rufous. Fore and hind feet above clothed with short, dull,
brown hairs, which extend to the tips of the toes. *

Throughout its entire structure the Florida muskrat displays an
affinity to Fiber on the one side and to Arvicola on the other. It is
strictly intermediate between the two genera.

In general shape the skull deviates in no manner from that of Fiber.
The lachrymal pit is less inflated in Neofiber and the nicking of the root
of the zygoma in front less obvious. The interorbital area is less con-
stricted posteriorly, its sides being nearly parallel. The squamosals are
much smaller than in Fiber, and do not approach so near the median
line anteriorly. The parietals, on the contrary, are large, and, taken
together, heart-shaped, the apex turned backward and truncated.
There is a small, regularly triangular, postero-lateral extension. The
interparietal is broader than long. The zygomatic arches are similar

* This description is a repetition of that given in the Museum Proceedings (I. ¢.),

i Se ae
FLORIDA MUSKRAT. 327

to those of Fiber. Between the maxillary and squamosal processes ex-
ternally the malar is reduced to a mere thread, as in that genus.*

The strap-shaped process of the squamosal bounding the squamosal
fenestra stands nearly. vertically, and the constriction of the skull be-
tween the fenestre is less than in Fiber. The anterior margin of the
meatus auditorius is much less prolonged than in that genus. The bulle
are moreinflated. The surface of the mastoid is uneven, but not strongly
concave; the foramen very small.

The coronoid process of the mandible is not as high as the condyle,
but the jaw is not otherwise different from that of Fiber.

The anterior upper molar has five cusps, the first not wider than the
other, nor compressed. The second molar has four cusps, the anterior
largest, acute externally, rounded internally. The posterior molar has
four cusps, the anterior like that of the preceding tooth, the second and
third equal in size, the last half-halberd-shaped, and almost or quite
external to the median line of the series. The anterior lower molar has
seven cusps, the first irregularly halberd-shaped, the last almond.
shaped, the rounded end internal. The second tooth has five cusps.
The last has four cusps, of which the first three are very small and the
last rhomboidal.

The skeleton presents a number of peculiarities, aside from propor-
tions, which distinguish it from that of F. zibethicus. The inferior lam-
ella of the transverse process of the sixth cervical vertebra is short and
broad, and does not extend back under the head of the first rib, as in
FE, zibethicus. The neural spines of the dorsal vertebre are much higher
than those of the lumbar vertebra, the reverse being true in the case of
Fiber. Of the six segments of the sternum the fifth is the smallest, being
one-half as high as broad. The transverse processes of the lumbar
vertebre ave short, and do not extend to the level of the under side of
the centra. The processes of the caudal vertebra, after the fourth, are
rudimentary; the vertebre themselves are much elongated.

The anterior extremity presents no special distinguishing character-
isties. In the pelvis the acetabulum is situated at the junction of the
third and fourth fifths of its length. There is less difference in the os-
seous structure of the feet of the two muskrats than one would suppose
from an examination of the exterior. The peculiar bending of the toes
in Fiber appears to be due to muscular and lgamentary antagonism
rather than to any peculiarities in the arrangement of the bones of the
foot. In Neofiber the fifth metatarsal is not more than one-half as long
as the second, and the first is but little longer. In Fiber the second

“Mr. N. P. Seudder (Proc. Biol. Soc. Washington, ii, 1885, p. lxiv) very justly takes
exception to Dr. Coues’s statement that in Fiber the squamosal and maxillary spurs
are in contact on the outer side of the zygomatic arch (Monogr, N. A. Rodentia, 1877, p.
253). Such an arrangement of parts appears to exist only in exceptional cases, if at
all. Among eleven skulls in the Museum collection there are none in which the two
spurs are absolutely in contact, though in one the space between them is exceedingly
narrow.

328 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884.

toe is shorter than the third, and the third than the fourth. In Neofiber
the third is the longest, followed by the second and fourth.

In external appearance the Florida muskrat somewhat resembles —
Arvicola amphibius, but it is easily distinguished by its larger head and
feet, longer and less hairy tail, and heavier body. The muzzle is en-
tirely hairy, except the small nasal pads. The eyes are noticeably |
nearer to the ears than to the nose. The ears are not entirely hidden ~
by the surrounding fur. The fore and hind feet are pilous above and —
naked below. The palms bear four tubercles, as in Fiber zibethicus.
They are black, except the two large posterior tubercles and the base
of the thumb. The narrow soles are smooth, black, and quinqui-tuber-
culate. The postero-internal tubercle is large and ovalin outline. The
remaining four are situated in the intervals between the axils of the five
toes. They are all equally small. The toes when flexed do not lie
across the sole, as in Fiber ; the fringe of the toes and sole does not ex-
tend noticeably below the plane of their lower surface.

The tail is perfectly terete, and so sparsely clothed with hairs that the
seales are distinetly visible.

In general color the Florida muskrat does not differ greatly from
Arvicola amphibius, but the hair is more like that of Fiber. On the up-
per surfaces it is plainly of two sorts. The under-fur is soft and crenu-
late, not glossy, and lead-colored, except at the terminal fifth. Mingled
with it are numerous stiff, shining hairs, about a half longer, some being
dark at the tips and others golden. he dark-tipped hairs prevail on
the back, but are outnumbered on the sides by the lighter ones. These
long, glossy hairs are sufficiently numerous to give the back a decided
sheen, but not such as is seen in winter specimens of Fiber. The fringe
overhanging the lips is composed of opaque white hairs, but the short
hairs on the margin of the lip are dark. The whiskers are dark at the
base and lighter at the extremity. None are long enough to reach the
ears. The ear-conch is clothed externally and internally with short fur
like the under fur of the body. In the median line of the back, just
above the insertion of the tail, both the under fur and hair are very
long, forming a sort of mane or crest. The hairs of the tail are dark
and about one-fourth inch in length ; the terminal pencil is very small.

The fur of the under surfaces is short, and at the extremity its color
is very light fawn. The extremity of the under jaw alone is darker.
The lower two-thirds of the under-fur is lead-colored, the extremity
fawn-colored. The stiffer hairs are darker and nearly twice as long.- On
the exterior of the fore feet the fur is like that of the sides, internally
like that of the belly. The long hairs extend down the leg and there
is a distinct tuft at the heel. The color of the appressed hair of the
feet is that of the stiff hairs of the sides. On the hind feet and legs the
color of the hair is the same, but there are fewer long hairs on the legs.
The color of the claws is light.
FLORIDA MUSKRAT. 829

Measurements of Neofiber Alleni, from the typical alcoholic specimen from Georgiana, Fla.

Centimeters.
IMR OEIEL EMME. an ifs at win cu Pecan shame KASS enmkbe aeele cick hs «piaene 20.2
SIDA HEE NER) fo cic» ck dP xiun lavage aclu mane aotiva cieiee cnmennn ccueeice asescusas 5.2
I EUML Jccneui «causes nent inn sesh ond Ronis peealn mele eis tiaalc\a aie niniviag meinae cea 12.6
EMeUE NC TOOL CWiGHOUL ClAWA) cc. u.c-t yecmcct wneeiceam aces cena cweciecencc ce 3.9
monermortore foot (without claws)! s.Us 20502. Sas eet aes soe Se 2.3
IRN aedt seis oom 452. 85 2 a cha de Sate Maeda eea be A ibdeus Sbsuend oe bid 2.0
I EE OR iat 5 ian niin niuny sinriod saab «basen n wusie isan stgeinwek wivtiee} Med
ee id nnn nn Luis sine ca apps osama susinpe eee nec seklonen snd uanw sone 1.8
Length of middle toe of fore foot (without claw) ......-2.. 0.2.2. ee0.--eee--e-- 9
Length of middle toe of hind foot (without claw) ...-...-...---.-.-. --2-2----- 1.0
EEanerttre SHEG LOOHS. 0s. Lbs i. SCG Soca ulate eae aod elideddendss wekw s 5
Seneum wy (08 NING foo es ooo.) ose oni ls ed dee chive eed saa dowseaenbicewen> 6

Measurements of the skull.
a ep gg eS RR AG Sp ep I ys ly pn ay op 4.7
NRE ae ten dt tence crock ound. nou h ma nape en eee a umes ame aome ene Ss & 2.9
RESO EERIE Jobe oticw ates weecad.. uc Ute cacbean Chon gbauen beeewakeatece 1.2
SNM TOW fa cas cals. d acids Sou b's So beo Sae ec gabiaedpice baie’ owiameminaadane Lt
Front edge of first molar to posterior margin of incisors ..............-..-.-.-- 1.6
SEER GR SPRUCE oi co cise walwa ws sie one eeana Saee ancia naa nilcem aman en aanns AL
EOL DTA) ULIOUG seeming ncian cana wens Cems teeavikeds bead clas aeseaviowels .5
Center of occipital crest to line of hinder margin of orbits ..........- Ae Ae 1.9
Measurements of the skeleton.

Bae rule( ALON O/OUIVOR) foecis ta nci 255 = -ei-|dsiid wait alowistoinc jel «dae sa Gee eins oe 32.8

Anterior margin atlas to extremity of post-zygapophysis of last sacral vertebra. 12.9
Extremity of post-zygapophysis of last sacral vertebra to end of tail ........... 15.2

Pid Sunnah q COLVIN CLUODEID s<cacs face sac =o eeelonce samme apeneeiew a beonanae asce 1.6
PAE RNOLe ls COLSAL VOLUE DI cos sce bectins cece seuemaccsudes cucelsttawesicedalceen= 5 0
Men epiioto ITM AL-VENLODEeD asso 1.5 cbe scene cuecleoss Sone decnicce sat ceecees dane 3 6
See EE UB ROEA) WORT UIE ti a555) Sola cing acs aren ales eels nomen <ip4 sat eede sudsidecilae Dad
Length of 25 candal vertebra ......-..- eis pei arnie alee we nina bya ta a 15. 2
Length of scapula (glenoid fossa to superior margin) ........-- 220. eee eeee ones 2.4
Length of sternum (without ensiform cartilage). .... 2.2.2.2. ..eeeeeeeeee eeeee- 3.2
PPA IRI CLUS: sateete atm ac cts= docs sccseclscmess Uesapencc slecsalsmasacseccsts 2.6
ENTRIES soa eta fe So ee eel haan ce kunewnmeee Wawa cnmninn as Wenn ane cuniwinm ems 3.3
PIS CULT BTU to te alee nie a's wa = at ce Sal tain aie sien eis ocfptals) adele sa staens tema cider 2.1
ee DOWNIE. 4. cine cune pedo eeas -audinnseiewnmedsclss chub n seneesieseaesannn 5 4.5
REE ME PE ano oigins pans conn eee ene Senn det ape eae twee en eae 3.3
ITE SEER ap ose ain a ree ees sania wis daae saien aa peal wees pene ncine seas am 805 3.8
an SoM 2 xin mw onla eins Neeiies same Maes esin= Cesare Sama weal needs wainnio aren 4,2

The characters which have been employed to separate Arvicola and
Fiber relate to the feet, the tail, and the posterior lower molar. They
may be contrasted thus:

Arvicola. Fiber.

Tail terete. Tail compressed.

Hind feet not specially modified for Hind feet greatly modified.
aquatic progression.

Posterior lower molar with three cusps; Posterior lower molar with four or five
the re-entrant angles opposite. cusps; the re-entrant angles alternate.
330 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884.

Upon the discovery of a new form having a terete tail, simple feet,
-and four cusps in the posterior lower molar, the re-entrant angles being
alternate, the question at once arises as to the validity of these char-
acters as generic distinctions. In introducing Neofiber into the sys-
tem several plans are open for adoption. The new form might be made ~
a subgenus under Arvicola by degrading the characters drawn from
the last lower molar to subgeneric rank. On the other hand, it could
be introduced as a subgenus, or even species, under Fiber by degrad-
ing the charaeters derived from the tail and feet in the same manner
to subgeneric or specific rank. Again, the genus Arvicola might be
enlarged to include Arvicola, Neofiber, and Fiber as subgenera. Finally,
the round-tailed muskrat might be made the type of a new genus in-
termediate between Arvicola and Fiber.

The last-mentioned course is, to my mind, the most satisfactory, and I
have therefore adopted it. With the present absolute incommensura-
bility of genera, I see no especial advantages, except in certain extra-
ordinary cases, in introducing a grade between genus and species. On
the other hand, no one probably would seriously consider the proposi-
tion of placing Neofiber as a species under Fiber. One can conceive,
however, of the existence of species of the latter genus which should
differ from F. zibethicus in proportions, quality and color of fur, web-
bing of the toes, and other similar details of structure.

It is somewhat remarkable that a rodent so large as Neofiber should
have remained unknown to American naturalists until the present. It
is true that exploration has not been so active in Florida as in some
other parts of the country, yet the State has been traversed many times
by observant naturalists and collectors. One feels convinced that the
species must be very rare or is confined strictly to a limited area. The
former opinion would appear to be the correct one, since the locality
from which the type specimen came is a favorite resort for sportsmen,
some one of whom must have recorded the species were it very abun-
dant.

What the habits of the Florida muskrat are can be learned only
from future observations. The structure of the animal would lead one
to believe that it is not so thoroughly aquatic as F. zibethicus.

Report Nat. Mus. 1884.—True. Flonda Muskrat. PLATE I.

Type.

Alleni, True.

Neofiber

One half natural size.

Florida Muskrat.

Fia.
Fia.
FiG.
Fic.
FIG.
Fig.
FIG.

PLATE II.

Neofiber Alleni, True.—Type.

1. Skull. View from above, x 1.
2. Skull. View from below, x 1.
3. Mandible. Right side, x lL.

4.
5
6
z

Right superior molars, x 4.

. Right inferior molars, x 4.
. Front foot, x 1.
. Hind foot, x 1.

4

Report. Nat, Mus. 1884.—True. Florida Muskrat. PLATE II.

Fic, 4.

Neofiber Alleni, True.
ies;
)

PLATE III.

Fiber zibethicus, (Linné).
Fie. 1. Skull. View from above, x 1.
Fig. 2. Skull. View from below, x 1.

Fic. 3. Mandible. Right side, x 1.
Fic. 4. Left superior molars, x 4.
Report Nat. Mus. 1884.—True. Florida Muskrat. PLATE III.

Fiber zibethicus, (Linné).
VI.—ON THE WEST TPL ee (MONACHUS TROPICALIS,
A).

By FREDERICK W. TRUE and F. A. LUCAS.

In October, 1885, the National Museum received, through the kindly
offices of Prof. Félipe Poey, of Havana, Cuba, the mounted skin of a
seal which had been on exhibition in that city during the summer of
the same year. The seal was reported to have been captured in the
vicinity of Havana. Upon arrival at the Museum it proved to be, as
Poey had suspected, a specimen of the seal which Gray had _ provision-
ally referred to the genus Monachus, under the name of MM. tropicalis.
The skin was imperfectly prepared, and it was deemed advisable, there-
fore, that it should be remounted. Upon examination it was found that
the skull was mounted in the skin, and that the bones of the fore and
hind flippers had not been removed. Owing to this fortunate accident
it is possible to describe for the first time the cranial characters of the
species.

The specimen is a female, and apparently adult, though not aged. Its
length, measured from the end of the tail to the extremity of the muz-
zle, in a straight line, is fifty-three inches.

So far as external characters are concerned, the Havana specimen
agrees with the description of Gosse, published in his “A Naturalist’s
Sojoarn in Jamaica,” which appeared in 1851, and with that of Gray,
founded upon an imperfect specimen now or until recently in the British
Museum. It presents, however, several minor differences, the more im-
portant of which we will now proceed to discuss.

The discrepancy which first meets our attention relates to the color of
the whiskers. These are stated by Gosse to be of a “black hue, with

transverse bars of gray.” In the specimen before us the whiskers are
-horn-colored, with blackish tips.

The color of the body is described by Gosse in his earlier pages as
“intense and uniform black”; but subsequently, when treating of a speci-
men captured by Wilkie, he gives a different description, and one which,
with very slight modification, is applicable to the specimen before us.
The fur of Wilkie’s specimen is said to have been ‘ nearly uniform
dirty ash-gray; black at the base and gray at the tips of the hairs. It

331
332 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884.

is slightly mottled on the belly.” In our specimen the hairs of the back’
and hind flippers appear light at the tip, as if faded by age; but are
dark sepia-color or nearly black, except at the extremity. On the
under parts and on the sides of the body, neck, and head the dark hairs
are interspersed by others which are white except at the tip. The lips _
are bordered with white. On the upper lips the hair above the white
fringe is darker than that of the surrounding surfaces. The palms are
not bare, as stated by Gosse, but are equally as well clothed as the upper
surfaces of the flippers. It is probable that the specimen described by
Hill had worn the hair from the under surfaces of the flippers by con-
tact with the dry surfaces of the inclosure in which it was confined.

THE SKULL.—The skull before us presents no characters which would
warrant a separation of the species generically from ML. albiventer, the
type of the genus Monachus. The specimen agrees perfectly with the
diagnosis of the genus given by Gray in the Hand-list of Seals, &e.
(1874, p. 11).

In general form the skull is depressed and elongated, the breadth —
being exactly three-fifths the length. Compared with Phoca vitulina, —
the muzzle is much less tapering; viewed from above, its sides are ap-_
proximately parallel. The intermaxillaries meet the nasals and extend
along their sides for about half aninch. Nasals narrow, somewhat less
than one-fourth the length of the skull, and emarginate anteriorly.

The interorbital region is broad, with parallel sides, much as in Hrig-
nathus. The frontals are in contact with the temporais posteriorly, and
to a greater extent on the left than on the right side. The contour of
the parietals is rudely square, the posterior margin being emarginate.
In the specimen under consideration the sagittal and occipito-parietal
sutures arestillopen. The sagittal and lambdoidal crests are rudiment-
ary.

The malar rests upon the maxillary anteriorly. A line drawn from
the outer edge of the canine parallel to the median line cuts the an-
terior end of the malar. The maxillary supports the malar internally
for more than half the length of the latter. The articulation of the
malar with the squamosal presents no peculiarities.

The “ palate” is strongly contracted at the juncture of the anterior
and middle thirds, and acutely emarginate behind. The posterior pala-
tine foramina lie wholly in the maxillary.

The posterior nares is small; its margin forms an equilateral triangle.
The narial septum is very incomplete.

The auditory bullz are pyriform in outline and depressed, the upper
surface traversed by a distinct groove. The lateral extension of the
bulla forming the wall of the meatus anditorius is incomplete in front.
The anterior margin of the bulla is deeply concave. The bull diverge
strongly posteriorly.

The foramen magnum is broader than high. The paroccipitals are
well developed, short, and thick.

WEST INDIAN SEAL. Ys ts)

The mandible presents some remarkable peculiarities. The condyle
is very low, being on a level with the alveolar border of the jaw. The
coronoid process is well developed and is strongly reflected. The lower
border of the horizontal ramus is straight. Thelength of the symphysis
is contained three and a half times in that of the jaw; the symphysis
itself is very thick. The furrow below the condyle, in which the ex-
ternal pterygoid muscle is inserted, and which is so strongly marked
in most seals, is scarcely apparent in the specimen under consideration.

Dental formula as follows: I. $; C.+; M.%x2=32. The line of
ihe upper incisors is straight. The outer incisors are much larger than
the inner ones. Both pairs are unicuspidate. The inner pair has a
slightly marked cingulum internally, while the cingulum is strongly
developed in the outer pair. The superior canines are short, stout, and
rugose, and bear a rounded ridge posteriorly. The second and third
molars are set very obliquely, the anterior end being turned inward.
The first and fourth molars are less oblique, the fifth not at all. The
second, third, and fourth molars are approximately equal in size, the
first somewhat and the fifth decidedly smaller. All the molars are very
rugose, and, except the fifth, are furnished with an obtuse central cusp,
supported before and behind by a smaller accessory cusp. The fifth
molar has no accessory cusps. The cingulum is strongly developed in
all the molars, and, except in the first, ends anteriorly and posteriorly
in a small denticle. Only the posterior denticle is present in the first
molar. Except between the first and second molars interspaces are
wanting. The first molar rests against and is half internal to the
canine. The molars are two-rooted, except the first.

The lower incisors are smaller and more obtuse than the upper incisors ;
the inner pair smaller than the outer, internal to the latter, and decum-
bent. The short canines have a posterior and two internal vertical -
ridges. The description of the superior molars applies equally to the
inferior series, except that the fifth is larger than the first and somewhat
oblique, and that there is no interspace between the first and second.
The line of the inferior molars is straighter than that of the superior
molars.

Comparison of AM. tropicalis and M., albiventer.

If the specimen before us is adult (and the condition of the skull
would seem to indicate that it is), the West Indian seal must be consid-
erably smaller than M. albiventer. The female of the latter species de-
scribed by F. Cuvier (Ann. Mém. d’Hist. Nat., xx, 1513, p. 387) measured
7 to § feet* from the extremity of the muzzle to the end of the hind flip-
per. In the Havana specimen the total length is but 4 feet and 10
inches.

The male monk seal described by Hermann in 1779 differed widely
from the animal before us, in that the under parts were very light and

*French measure.
334 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884.

that there was a large square area of soiled white on the abdomen and
numerous gray spots on the head. The coloration of the female monk
seal described by Cuvier (J. ¢.) approximates more closely to the speci-
men before us. The under surfaces of the former were yellowish light
gray, while our specimen is of a yellowish umber-brown color in the
same region.

Much more important differences are found inthe skull. In the Osse-
mens fossiles (vol. viii, 1836, p. 442-443), Cuvier gives a table of measure-
ments of the head and other parts of the skeleton of a specimen of M.
albiventer. Although Cuvier’s specimen was larger than that under
consideration, the differences are such as, in our opinion, could not be
entirely due to disparity of age or difference of sex. The width of the
zygomatic arch in the former is much the greater, being about three-
fourths the length of the skull; in M. tropicalis its width is only three-
fifths the same length. This character is shown also in the close ap-
proximation of the coronoid processes and condyles in WM. tropicalis.
While the length of the muzzle compared with that of the brain-case
is practically equal in the two species, its widtn is considerably less
in MW. tropicalis than in M. albiventer. Both the measurements and
figures of the latter species show that it has the forehead much more
elevated, and consequently the anterior nasal opening more neéarly
vertical, than is the case in M. tropicalis. The foramen magnum
would appear to be twice as large relatively in WM. tropicalis as in M.
albiventer. This character is perhaps of little value, on account of the
great variability observable among different individuals.

A character which is apparently of great importance is the difference
in the relative length of the molar series. In WV. tropicalis the length
of the molar series of each jaw is very nearly one-third that of the skull,
while in the Mediterranean seal it is less than a fourth. The condyle
of the mandible in J. tropicalis is noticeably low, being on a level with
the alveolar border of the jaw. On account of this disposition of parts
the lower edge of the occipital condyles is in the same plane with the
lower margin of the mandible when the mouth is closed. There ap-.
pears to be no approach to this arrangement of parts in any other ear-
less seal.

It is stated both by F. Cuvier and by Keyserling and Blasius (Fauna
Deutschland, 1857, p. 245) that in M. albiventer the first upper molar
is the smallest of the series. In M. tropicalis this tooth is considerably
larger than the fifth.

Cuvier has figured the skull of M. albiventer with a prominent supra-
orbital tubercle, a process which is entirely rudimentary in our specimen
of M. tropicalis.

In our opinion the differences pointed out are quite sufficient to
warrant the separation specifically of the subtropical seals of the
Eastern and Western Atlantic. It is decidedly probable that fresh
specimens of equal size and age from the two regions would show dif-

WEST INDIAN SEAL. kK 335

ferences of external proportions which cannot be determined from the
scanty material now at our command.

Specifie diagnosis.
|
MONACHUS TROPICALIS, Gray.

Phoca tropicalis, Gray, Cat. Mam. Brit. Mus., pt. ti, Seals, 1850, p. 28.
Phoca Wilkianus, Gosse, Naturalist’s Sojourn in Jamaica, 1857, p. 308, foot-note.
Monachus tropicalis, Gray, Cat. Seals and Whales Brit. Mus., 1866, p. 20.

** Monachus ? tropicalis, Gray,” Allen, Monogr. N. A. Pinnipeds, 1880, p. 708.

Color above umber-brown. Below slightly lighter and tinged with
yellow. Flippers of the color of the back. Lips bordered with white.
Soles and palms clothed with short hair.

Skull.—Forehead depressed. Condyles of mandible on a level with
the alveolar border of the jaw. Length of the molar series one-third
that of the skull. Last upper molar smallest.

Measurements of the skulls of Monachus albiventer (from Cuvier, Oss. Foss., viii, 1836,
442) and Monachus tropicalis.

M. tropicalis. M. albiventer.

Measurements. —.————————— i
mm. 100ths. | mm. 100ths.
Summit of occipital crest to anterior borders of premaxillaries. - . 193 100. 0 282 100. 0
Ditto to anterior extremity of nasals.-..-.....-.- Spon pe nascaese 152 78.9 219 KEE
Greatest breadth between zygomatic arches. ........-.--.-....--- 122 63.1 215 76. 2
Least breadth of interorbital ridge.-.-....-.-...-.-..----------- 25 13.1 32 11.3
Breadth of muzzle on a line with the incisors ........----..--... 45 23. 6 78 27.7
Height from lower border of occipital condyles to summit of
EMME ace ee eda ee a eas a at sn cne suajoas ence tee 70 36. 8 96 34. 0
From the alveolar border of the maxillary to the anterior ex-
PRM USE AGG TUOMAS econo so solsanece.<b<<.ocmesnemcneoew 45 23. 6 91 82.3
Height of foramen magnum....-....- 27 14.4 23 8.2
‘Width of foramen magnum......... 33 17.0 27 9.6
Length of superior molar series 60 31.5 65 23.1
Distance between outer borders of last molars...........---.--- 63 32. 8 84 29.8
PAM TMCON ONT: 57 -o ae osis ve nedacesvdecaesocescecanacssers 35 18.4 48 17.0
RMON OL WON IAW Sao <n ow aos seen acnuenannocuspeasnden 134 69.7 210 74. 5.
Angle of mandible to upper surface of condyle ............--..- 237 14.4 63 22.3
Angle of mandible to extremity of coronoid process............ 45 26.3 102 36. 3
Distance between outer borders of coronoid processes ..-......- 89 46. 0 161 57.1
Distance between external extremities of condyles .......... se 112 57.8 190 67. 4:
Length of the symphysis mandibnili....................--.-000-- 37 19.7 58 20. 6
Length of the lower molar series.......-........20-seeee-ecceee- 60 31.5 54 19. 2
18. O

Distance between outer surface of canines.............. oe cea 27 14.4 51

PLATE I.

West Indian Seal.

Report Nat. Mus. 1884.—True and Lucas.

;

‘OZIS [C.ANZVU SPALTJ-OM J,

Csvowy -y <q Aq Avid)

"MOLA [R10] UT

“Avy ‘sypordo.4 snyoouoyy Jo \uyAS

PATH Lr,

Report Nat. Mus, 1884.,—True and Lucas. West Indian Seal.

§1Ze.

Two-thirds natural

View from above.

Skull of Monachus tropicalis, Gray.

(Drawn by F. A. Lucas.)
Report Nat. Mus. 1884.—True and Lucas. West Indian Seal. PLATE ITI.

Skull of Monachus tropicalis, Gray. View from below. Two-thirds natural size.
a. Teeth, seen from in front.

(Drawn by F. A. Lucas.)
PAT Lv.

BIBLIOGRAPHY OF THE U. 8. NATIONAL MUSEUM FOR 1884.

ANALYSIS.

Pages.
an —- anliestions of the Museum..-.....-. ----------2-ca-ce0 cn conces 339-343
Part II.—Publications by officers of the Museum.........-......-.-.-.---- 346-370

Part IlJ.—Publications by investigators not officers of the Museum, based on

REGRET INAURIIAL oo se Sans ot aco ealanu costen see ee eecee 371-381

S. Mis. 33, pt. 222 337
PART I.—PUBLICATIONS OF THE MUSEUM.

_ The publications of the National Museum are included in two series: 1. The Pro-

ceedings of the U. S. National Museum, of which Vol. I appeared in 1878, and which is
published in dated siguatures and promptly distributed to all centers of scientific
activity. 2. The Bulletins of the National Museum, of which 27 have been published

_ since 1875.
_ These publications are printed by the authority and at the expense of the Depart-
_ ment of the Interior.

the United States National Museum. Vol. vi. 1883. Published
under the direction of the Smithsonian Institution. Washington ;
Government Printing Office. 1884. 8vo. pp. i-vii; 1-558. Plates
i-xiv.

~The following is a list of signatures of “Proceedings of the U. S.
National Museum,” published in 1884, and forming parts of Vol-
umes Vi and vii:

Signa- | Signa-
Date of publication. ture | Pages. Date of publication. ture Pages.
No. No.
wo
VOLUME vil—Continued.
ar ee ere 25. 885-400 || August 5..................... 14 209-224
eee ai ean wma wane « 26 | 401-416 |} August 5............-........ 15 225-240
aol? tc See 27 | 417-429 || August 20..................... 16 241-256
ality oe Pee ae gee Sat AE 17| 257-272
eS PT) De hie 18 273-288
JAD SURG 28.2 can wos an cae eee 19 289-304
1 Dee SUE ASTUTE R DeS wtok welne ews write ese 20 305-320
2 17—'32|)"September: 1-5-5... 32.- 25.50. 21 321-336
3 33— 48 || September 4.................. 22 337-352
4 49- 64 || September 17.................. 23 353-368
5 65- 80 || September 17...............-.- 24 369-384
6 81- 96 || September 17.................. 25 385-400
a 97-112 || September 18.................. 26 401-416
8 | 113-128 | September 19. = 27 417-432
9} 129-144 || September 26.-. = 28 433-448
10 | 145-160 || September 27............... Mea 29 449-464
11 161-176 || September 27................-- 30 465-480
12 | 177-192 || September 27........%........ 31 481-496
ee ven een 8s ne aan 13 | 193-208

‘ Report of the Assistant Director of the United States National Museum
for 1882.

(Smithsonian Report, 1882 (1884), pp. 119-263.)
339
340 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884.

BULLETINS OF THE U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM.

Bulletin of the United States National Museum. No. 25. Contribu-
tions to the natural history of the Bermudas. Volumel. Edited
by J. Matthew Jones and George Brown Goode. Washington:
Government Printing Office. 1884. 8vo. pp. i-xxiii; 1-353.
Plates i-~xii.

Previous to the publication of the complete bulletin, there were pub-
lished separately the seven parts of the bulletin, as follows:

Part I. The geology of Bermuda, by William North Rice, Ph. D.,
Orange Judd professor of geology and natural history in Weal
‘leyan University. From Bulletin No. 25, U. S. National Museum.
Washington: Government Printing Office. 1884. 8vo. pp. [1]-

» [32]. Plates i-vi. (S. I. Series No. 495.)

Part Il. The botany of Bermuda, by General Sir John Henry Lefroy,
F, R. S., Atheneum Club, London. From Bulletin No. 25, U. 8S.
National Museum. Washington: Government Printing Office.
1884. 8vo. pp. [33]-[141].

Part III. The mammals of Bermuda, by J. Matthew Jones, F. B.S. C.,
Fern Lodge, Waterville, Nova Scotia. From Bulletin No. 25, U.S.

Ow
Pars
2

a

7

ea ee

Sor pete als

National Museum. Washington: Government Printing Office. —

1884. 8vo. pp. [143]-[161].
Part 1V. The birds of Bermuda, by Captain Saville G. Reid, F. Z. S.,

of the Royal Engineers, member ‘of the British Ornithologists- :

Union, &c. From Bulletin No. 25, U.S. National Museum. Wash-
ington: Government Printing Office. 1884. 8vo. pp. [163|-[(279].
Part V. On a bird new to the Bermudas, with notes upon several spe-

= mene
a inal

cies of rare or accidental occurrence in these islands, by Clinton —

Hart Merriam, M. D. From Bulletin No. 25, U. S. National —

Museum. Washington: Government Printing Office. 1884. 8vo.
pp. [281]-[284].

Part VI. The reptiles of Bermuda, by Samuel Garman, nasetiin off
Comparative Zoology, Cambridge, Massachusetts. From Bulletin

No. 25, U.S. National Museum. Washington: Government Print- —

ing Office. 1884. 8vo. pp. [285]-[303].

Part VII. The annelida from Bermuda, collected by Mr. G. Brown”

Goode, by Henry E. Webster, professor of natural history in the—

University of Rochester, Rochester, New York. From Bulletin No.
25, U.S. National Museum. Washington: Government Printing |
Office. 1884. 8vo. pp. [805]-[327]. Plates vii-xil.

Bulletin of the United States National Museum, No. 27. Descriptive 1
catalogues constituting a report upon the exhibit of the fisheries —

and fish culture of the United States of America, made at the Lon-
don Fisheries Exhibition, 1883. Prepared under the direction of G.
Brown Goode, U.S. Commissioner, and a staff of associates. Wash-

i
BIBLIOGRAPHY OF U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM. 841

ington: Government Printing Office. 1884. 8vo. pp. i-liv;
1-1279. (S. I. Series No. 511.)

This Bulletin is composed of twelve catalogues, the first seven of which
were published as separates, in 1883. Catalogue H was published as a sepa-
rate in 1884. Catalogues I, J, K, and L were not printed as separates, but
appeared for the first time in the complete volume.

The following is a list of these catalogues:

Great International Fisheries Exhibition. London, 1883. United States
of America. A.—Preliminary catalogue and synopsis of the collee-
tions exhibited by the United States Fish Commission and by spe-
cial exhibitors. With a concordance to the official classification of
the Exhibition. Washington: Government Printing Office. 1883.
8vo. pp. 1-107. :

Great International Fisheries Exhibition. London, 1883. United States
of America. B.—Collection of economic crustaceans, worms, echino-
derms, and sponges. By Richard Rathbun, curator of the Depart-
ment of Marine Invertebrates in the United States National Mu-
seum. Washington: Government Printing Office. 1883. Svo.
pp. 1-31.

Great International Fisheries Exhibition. London, 1883. United States
of America. C.—Catalogue of the aquatic and fish-eating birds
exhibited by the .United States National Museum. By Robert
Ridgway, curator, Department of Birds, U.S. National Museum.
Washington: Government Printing Office. 1883. 8vo. pp. 1-46.

Great International Fisheries Exhibition. London, 1883. United States
of America. D.—Catalogue of the economic mollusca and the ap-
paratus and appliances used in their capture, and preparation for
market, exhibited by the United States National Museum. By
Lieut. Francis Winslow, U.S. N. Washington: Government Print-
ing Office. 1883. 8vo. pp. 1-86.

Great International Fisheries Exhibition. London, 1883. United States
of America. E.—The whale fishery and its appliances. By James
Temple. Brown, assistant in the Department of Art and Industry,
U.S. National Museum. Washington: Government Printing Of-
fice. 1883. 8vo. pp. 1-116.

Great International Fisheries Exhibition. London, 1883. United States
of America. F.—Catalogue of the collections of fishes exhibited by

. the United States National Museum. By Tarleton H. Bean, cura-
tor of the Department of Fishes in the United States National Mu-
seum. Washington: Government Printing Office. 1883. 8vo. pp.
1-124.

Great International Fisheries Exhibition. London,1883. United States
of America. G.—Descriptive catalogue of the collection illustrat-
ing the scientific investigation of the sea and fresh waters. By
Richard Rathbun, curator of the Department of Marine Inver-
tebrates in the United States National Museum. Washington;
Government Printing Office. 1885. S8vo. pp. 1-109,
342 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884.

Great International Fisheries Exhibition. London,1883. United States
of America. H.—Catalogue of the aquatic mammals exhibited by
the United States National Museum. By Frederick W. True, cu-

rator of the Department of Mammals, United States National Mu-
seum. Washington: Government Printing Office. 1884. Svo. pp.
1-22

Great eo a Fisheries Exhibition. London, 1883.. United States —
of America. I.—Catalogue of the collection illustrating the fishing
vessels and boats, and their equipment; the economic condition of —
fishermen; anglers’ outfits, &c. By Capt. J. W. Collins, assistant,
Us Ss: Fish Commission. Washington: Government Printing of
fice. 1884. 8vo. pp. 1-179. [645-823.]

Great International Fisheries Exhibition. London,1883. United States —
of America. J.—Catalogue of the apparatus for the capture of fish, ©
exhibited by the United States National Museum. By R. Edward —
Earll, curator of the Fisheries Collections, U. 8. National Museum, —
and assistant, U. S. Fish Commission. Washington: Government
Printing Office. 1884. 8vo. pp. 1-206. [825-1030.] .

Great International Fisheries Exhibition. London, 1883. United
States of America. K.—Catalogue of fishery products, and of the
apparatus used in their preparation. By A. Howard Clark, assist- ~

ant in the Department of Art and Industry, United States National 2

Museum. Washington: Government Printing Office. 1884. 8vo.
pp. 1-124. [1031-1154.]

Great International Fisheries Exhibition. London, 1883. United —
States of America. L.—Catalogue of the fish cultural exhibit of |
the United States Fish Commission. By R. Edward Earli, curator —
of the Fisheries Collections, U.S. National Museum, and assistant,
U.S. Fish Commission. Washington: Government Printing Of- —
fice. 1884. S8vo. pp. 1-95. [1155-1249.]

The circulars below enumerated were published as separates during
the year 1884, and will appear in Proceedings U.S. National Museum, ~
Vol. vii. ]
No. 24. Plan of a collection to illustrate the textile industries of the

United States, to be exhibited at the World’s Industrial and Cotton —
Centennial Exposition of 1884-1885, at New Orleans. By Romyn ~
Hitcheock, acting curator, Section of Textile Industries. Svo. 16
pages.

No. 25. Preliminary plan for a collection of the building and Grane .
stones and rocks of the United States, to be exhibited at the World’s —
Industrial and Cotton Centennial EeApRibiCn of 1884-1885, at New
Orleans. By George P. Merrill, curator: Department of Lithology —
and Physical Geology. 8vo. 2 pages. |

No. 26. Plan for a collection of gems and precious stones, to be exhib- —
ited at the Cincinnati Industrial Exposition and the World’s Indus- —
trial and Cotton Centennial Exposition of 1884-1885, at New Or- —
leans. By F.W. Clarke, curator, Department of Minerals. 2 pages. —

i

No.

No.

BIBLIOGRAPHY OF U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM. 343

. 27. Directions for collecting, preserving, and transporting tortri-

cids and other small moths. By C. H. Fernald. 8vo. 3 pages.

. 28. Directions for mound exploration. By Cyrus Thomas, Ph. D.

8vo. 3 pages.

. 29. Provisional plan for a collection of mammals to be exhibited at

the World’s Industrial and Cotton Je a Exposition of 1884—
1885, at New Orleans. By Frederick W. True, curator of the De-
partment of Mammals. 8vo. 27 pages.

30. A list of birds, the eggs of which are wanted to complete the
series in the National Museum, with instructions for collecting eggs.
By Capt. pharies K. Bendire, U. S. A., honorary curator, Section of
Odlogy, U. 8. National acura: aco. 4 pages.

31. Plan to illustrate the mineral-resources of the United States
and their utilization, at the World’s Industrial and Cotton Centen-
nial Exposition of 1884-1885, at New Orleans. By Fred. P. Dewey,
curator: Department of Economic Geology and Metallurgy. 8vo.
8 pages.

[Circulars 19, 20, 21, 22, and 23, which are noticed in the bibliography
of the Museum report for 1883, as printed in “separate” form during
that year, are reprinted in Proceedings of the U. S. National Museum,
vi, 1883, (1884), pp. 431-497. |
i
i
f"
as
ALPHABETICAL LIST OF WRITERS ON NATIONAL MUSEUM COL-
LECTIONS IN 1884. ;
Page :
¥ AtwateraweO sos seats see see nc ccc ae tcc s ee eeanemtcteLine Seen eres ae 346
*Balrd  SPeneeriE” a ashisccsslcacincese = sees -feeeiemieies gaeelek cae Crete eae ee 346
“Bean, Tarleton Hc. 2. sone poe seceas sccees cen ee ee cee Seen eee 7 a
* ‘Bendire:; Charles sci. Shhh nc Cees oer ees cee te eee ete aera eee 347
Brewer (PING of wise = sa cen St Uaveoeeubeetn sk. ales hucecs ens ieee 346, 371
Chatard,T.M ...-.-.-.- Doe Lis aes ed at SE ee os AS Oo ae ae eee 348, 371
* Clark cA SHOWA. .<.02:sic ca necUoe ceceis cup accoustic caer ne oats comin nee seen eee 348
* Clatke sR av ce ta cea cacick care cect sear ene eee cee eee APR hte =) at 348
Collins; Joseph W <2 2 ec toss toncaed pce eee see ease bas See ene eEe omae = eee 348
Coues, Mott: 32. eee ctace science fase celose ale See ete oe eee ae eee ee 371
* Dadi} William HE). ed £cceelee eed Si ieee a ee eee 349
* Dowey, Ered Pc san ck ein Gad Mead ote seeet oateer see oem eee eee eee eee ool
Dresel; Herman George =o <3. 20 es hong Soren weiss sn ue ee ee ab eee ee eee 347, 351
© Rar Rix BO Ward ccs sos siccjels soiecleme eee suk eee te ee aU EE eee eee eee 351
Bliott, HW: 2. :cccn cscs se ctnaceqees Se aoe caaae + Rone eee See ee eee ae 371
FSkOn, VWAMOP iio. esas eee ne Bias wee ee saibiste Sinem cone e oem oleate Deo eos 371
Fernald, C.H.-..... bad .cloe eisisicey Sec ceteee re cas POSS c secon setae ake oe eee 372
Garnian; Sapinel i loSeicen cbase cosas coe teneeenne eee ee ane oe ae eee 372
Gilbert; Charles He Lise: iscncece eausisecce cision acts s cumcins cols eemeoeeeaeeee 372, 375
Gill, Theodore Nisy swiss. ease eee ae ceniscceme ciwec tees secee esate Maen eee 372
* Goode; Gs BLOWN ies. sao secs cecee wan Saeco ea ele oe ae ers See eee eee 347, 352°
Gurney, 0.0. a. eos iene aac ae maaan mons neces a cae cee Nase Nw eertne Meee re 373
Heap GoWitslscecocemeteeuecccas cece eset moore toses sacs meee eee eens 373
Elensha wi He Wie. ite caccee Sate eee wees oe ete ore eee oe eee eee 373
* iMitehcock, Romyn ince 2c-csisencocoeecececeecs se aclees sea eeoaeeneaeore 353
* Homaday,awWitsil -sscccvscs ceeces cececeeee een ocee aaeo nie menace ceaeeeee nae 353
Ingersoll, Fernesti: saa croc acne stem eveew aye meniaee Oe oa Re ee ee eee enone 374
Jones, Jo Matthew 252th eee ecm me ee eee ris oe re eee eee ee a eee 353, 374
Jordan, David Ss. 5 bs use eee ee ease eee ete ae nee cal eae 372, 374, 379 —
Lefroy oir John Henty. c= loner ecnc cece enews ees acces as ee eee eee 376
*“Encas; PredericvA: 3) 3c. sceisci/Se tls ween oss Beet ee we emer oat On ay oto en 353
* Mareou; John<Belknap) cic. icccctone vaees eee come che eee Rees eae 353
* Mason, Otis TMuftony a. 3. 22 sss ene an eet oreo ee eee ene CEE e eee 354
Meek; Sethubiwscs Sst se cme cce cesses ace d u ee ore e ee ae eee eee eee 375, 379
* Merrill*George: Pso2 te eisnt cee eo occeece een a cnee eae oe ee ee ae 355
Merriam) Clinton Hartcsosc-cessseececeeoce eects ee ee ceo e een eens 376
Nelson “WawWescies see. sac Sse se ewe ce eee ee ee ee eee oe eee 376
Nutting ;@harles'C to. i sc ceenicc Gone sue ce ee ee ee eee ee ee 376
Printe, Temp 6 2s isn ee ote vecean nam eemeoeseie es eee eee eae meee 377
* Rathbunhichard :- 2. isc ae ccccuiea nec eer ese te tae ee eee 355
* Rat; CRAIGS, i c4in coco ta wcenio cats Meise meee ee ae Cente ae eee ae eae 356
Reid), Sawmle Gietesict os Sst Saoemene eee icat meee metee ce hie eer eee ee ee 377
Rice, William, North:. co. 226 [022 5/s2 2 eokieee ce see beer se eee eee 377
* Ridgway, Robertson. 22. .s/ctabn a venninnucins toccmasetaeea eee ee eee ee 346, 356

* Officers of the Museum.
344

ov) ‘yh oteee

aay pal

BIBLIOGRAPHY OF U. 8. NATIONAL MUSEUM. 345
Page.
re Nett ae a pee te re eae ian SoM as SMe oan <eseen senass 359
POOR nek noes ae ee SAIN Araneta ueeas sisinin a 4 sac sce nck ian acehe 377
PemRVOOr, JOD IAS... 041-25 Se oan SRE SSA. ci siainis okiate cinta <b.cwin Lh -- 364, 373
SAE ME neat an eta ete ee hee on aiimeme rasa asleG ona cgewec accu gceber 377
Baath 0 WOE? <a.sneu ssuceeee once atena Sera decac sone estes csueseteus 377
APMC MES AON i ibaa wis o mica aera meee ema eae ae units Wea wean peceet ache 377
SUD TESA OUTS CS SR Ee Oe ie oe A Be ee 378
EDT AEGIS TO ETT 21 Oe a Re Oh BG EE eG ee eee 378
SR RRCENA SIO Oe oats ic ae tie setae aaa CaO Toe ate Wace Neotaawusdicsesiere 365
BPovarLOOnNnard .. <2 .)-socss ca- sb bioaae ae oe eas een ene. cade seed cus. acne 366
PEE ONGINN oon. tvn Seo wh. cee See we oe ear eee naicinee sacace rece ec 375, 379
PRIME EO OTUS) Stoo asks foo Se ae Seto oad seca teaee reece Gelacedeebeeece 379
OCLEDIG LS 0 Cg tO) Pe nee geen AE SI ope Sy 1 ee ee es er eee renee 367
UC PRE LIL AS OS Se ee er ee ee ek ee ee eee 379
OPT LD Tria (ALY So ES) 0 i a ree eee ts See ee aes eee 368
CRESS ee oe iciwre a fa San, awadien So cated ee pote me Onaemaelenen ne akioe 380
UTE RC TAMIONGN YS cela see as cao oes wiogo oe entree eR oat nee eee 380
BENMHTE ME ERLOE Men ccna to so ane iccocn one scuiecae ewe cea cee cee eno ee 368
BVONALBE HONE Eco c can coe ents Sew elasebusctin sas bed nome ace .aee et eee 381
BEILTEB EC HATIONVA Grimmett. oe oot eRe oa. ieee oa ee Bia BILE De ae 37
0 TTERELLT Sj LR pe a Se a ae a en Oey Bree Sree 381

RTE, Nor col imate Sap ican om'an> canaaek SEun enameneneacenniveets 370

“ Officers of the Museum.
346 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884.

PART II.—PAPERS BY OFFICERS OF THE MUSEUM.

WILBUR OLIN ATWATER.

The chemical composition and nutritive value of our American food
fishes and invertebrates.
(Transactions American Fish Cultural Association, 1884, pp. 171-194.)
Les relations entre les plantes et ’azote de leur nourrittre.
(Annales de chimie et de physique, [6] ii, pp. 322-331.)
The chemistry of the feeding of plants.
(Report of the New Jersey Board of Agriculture, 1883-1884, pp. 55-105. )
This lecture was delivered before the New Jersey Board of Agriculture.
Tables illustrative of the nutritive value of fish.
(Bull. U.S. Fish Com., iv, 1884, pp. 203-205.)
Report of analysis of a sample of fish guano made from salmon offal,
by Mr. Joseph Spratt, of Victoria, British Columbia.
(Bull. U.S. Fish Com., iv, 1884, p. 238.) :

SPENCER FULLERTON BAIRD,

On the specimens received by the Smithsonian Institution from the
United States Life-Saving Service.
(Bull. U. S. Fish Com., iv, 1884, pp. 177-178.)

SPENCER F. BAIRD, T. M. BREWER AND R. RIDGWAY.

Memoirs of the Museum of Comparative Zoology at Harvard College.
Vol. xii. The Water Birds of North America, by S. F. Baird, T.
M. Brewer, and R. Ridgway. Issued in continuation of the publi-
cations of the Geological Survey of California. J. D. Whitney,
State Geologist, Volume I, Boston. Little, Brown, and Company.
1884. Royal 8vo. pll. 3. pp. vii-xi, 1-537, 211 wood-cuts.
Memoirs of the Museum of Comparative Zoology at Harvard College.
Vol. xiii. The Water Birds of North America, by S. F. Baird, T. M.
Brewer, and R, Ridgway. Issued in continuation of the Publi-
cations of the Geological Survey of California. J. D. Whitney,
State Geologist. Volume ii. Boston. Little, Brown, and Com-
pany. 1884. Royal 8vo. pll.3. pp. 1-552. 288 wood-cuts.
These two volumes comprise a complete monograph of the Water Birds of
North America, based almost wholly upon the collections of the U. S. Na-
tional Museum. The technical portion was prepared by Professor Baird and
Mr. Ridgway, the biographies or life-histories by Dr. Brewer (the authors
having no financial interest in its publication). The work is intended asa
continuation of ‘A History of North American Birds” (3 vols., embracing
the land birds) by the same authors and publishers, issued in 1874,

SRA St eee SIE LS SSS Se a a

C+
.

od

Pare

BIBLIOGRAPHY OF U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM. 347

TARLETON HOFFMAN BEAN.

Notes on a collection of fishes made in 1882 and 1883 by Capt. Henry
E. Nichols, U.S. N., in Alaska and British Columbia, with a de-~
scription of a new genus and species, Prionistius macellus.

(Prec. U.S. Nat. Mus., vi, 1883, pp. 353-361, Jan. 12, 1884. )
Localities and collecting dates of 48 species, one of which is a new cottoid
related to Triglops.

Brook trout from Monadnock Lake and Cristine Lake, New Hampshire.

(Bull. U.S. Fish. Com., iv, Aug. 12, 1884, pp. 293-294. )

Notes on some fishes collected by James G. Swan, in Washington Ter-
ritory, including a new species of Macrurus.
(Proce. U. 8. Nat. Mus., vi, Jan. 12, 1884, pp. 362-364.)

Notes on fishes observed at the head of Chesapeake Bay, in the spring
of 1582; and upon other species of the same region.
(Proc. U.S. Nat. Mus., vi, Jan. 12, 1884, pp. 365-367.)

On the occurrence of the striped bass in the Lower Mississippi Valley.
(Proc. U.S. Nat. Mus., vii, Aug. 20, 1884, pp. 242-244.)

Description of a new species of whitefish (Coregonus nelsonii) from
Alaska.
(Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., vii, June 3, 1884, p.48. Plate i.)

Descriptions of Physiculus fulvus and Lotella maxillaris, new species of
fishes collected in 1881 by the United States Fish Commission.
(Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., vii, Aug. 5, 1884, pp. 240-242.)

The white fishes of North America.
(Report American Fish Cultural Association, 1884, pp. 32-39.)

Notes on some Florida fishes (with G. Brown Goode).
(Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., vii, June 3, 1884, pp. 42-47.)

TARLETON HOFFMAN BEAN anp HERMAN GEORGE DRESEL.

A catalogue of fishes received from the Public Museum of the Institute
of Jamaica, with descriptions of Pristipoma approximans and Tylo-
surus euryops, two new species.

(Proc. U. 8. Nat. Mus., vii, July, 8, 1884, pp. 151-170.)

CHARLES BENDIRE,
U. 8S. Army.

A list of birds the eggs of which are wanted to complete the series in
the National Museum, with instructions for collecting eggs.

(Proc. U. 8. Nat. Mus., vii, 1884, pp. 613-616.)
Also published as Museum Circular No, 30.
348 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884.

ALONZO HOWARD CLARK.

Great International Fisheries Exhibition. London, 1883. United States
7 of America. K.—Catalogue of fishery products, and of the appa-
ratus used in their preparation. By A. Howard Clark, assistant
in the Department of Art and Industry, United States National
Museum. Washington: Government Printing Office. 1884. 8vo.
pp. 1-124. (1031-1154.)
Notes on the fisheries of Gloucester, Mass.
(Bull. U. S. Fish Com., iv, 1884, pp. 401-410.)

FRANK WIGGLESWORTH CLARKE.

Plan for a collection of gems and precious stones, to be exhibited at the
Cincinnati Industrial Exposition and the World’s Industrial and
Cotton Centennial Exposition of 1884-1885 at New Orleans.

(Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., vii. 1884, pp. 575-576. )
Also published as Museum Cireular No. 26.

Appletons’ Science Text-Books. The elements of chemistry. By F.
W. Clarke, chemist of the United States Geological Survey. New
York: D. Appleton and Company, 1, 3, and 5 Bond Street. 1884.
8vo. (x.) pp. 1-369. 53 figures.

FRANK WIGGLESWORTH CLARKE AND THOMAS MAREAN CHATARD.

Department of the Interior. Bulletin of the United States Geological
Survey, No. 9. A report of work done in the Washington Labo-
ratory during the fiscal year 1883-~"84. Washington: Government
Printing Office. 1884. 8vo. pp. 1-40.

Mineralogical notes from the laboratory of the U.S. Geological Survey.
(Amer. Journ. Science and Arts, July, 1884, p. 20.)

JOSEPH WILLIAM COLLINS.

Great International Fisheries Exhibition. London, 1883. United States
of America. I.—Catalogue of the collection illustrating the fishing-
vessels and boats and their equipment, the economic condition of
fishermen, anglers’ outfits, &e. By Captain J. W. Collins, assistant
U.S. Fish Commission. Washington: Government Printing Office
1884. 8vo. pp. 1-179. (645-823.)

Report of a trip of exploration on the Chesapeake Bay, made in the
spring of 1882 by the steamer “ Fish Hawk,” Lieut. Z. L. Tanner,
commanding. ;

(Report U. S. Fish Com., iv, 1884, pp. 1035-1038. )

Notes on the habits and methods of capture of various species of sea
birds that occur on the fishing banks off the eastern coast of North
America, and which are used as bait for catching codfish by New
England fishermen.

(Report U. S. Fish Com., iv, 1884, pp. 311-338. Plate i.)

aera eer

BIBLIOGRAPHY OF U. 8. NATIONAL MUSEUM. 349

History of the tile fish.
(Report U. 8. Fish Com., iv, 1884, pp. 237-2944, Plates i-ii.)
Movements of mackerel in winter.
(Bull. U. S. Fish. Com.,iv, 1884, p. 15.)
A large squid.
(Bull. U.S. Fish. Com., iv, 1884, p. 15.)
A search for mackerel off Block Island, Montauk, and Sandy Hook in
November, 1883.
(Bull. U.S. Fish. Com., iv, 1884, pp. 49-51.)
Some observations on the cod gill-net fisheries and on preservatives for
nets.
(Bull. U.S. Fish. Com., iv, 1884, pp. 58-59.)
Inauguration of the frozen herring trade.
(Bull. U.S. Fish. Com., iv, 1884, pp. 81-83. )
What codfish sometimes swallow.
(Bull. U.S. Fish. Com., iv, 1884, p. 175.)
Loss of life and property in the Gloucester fisheries.
(Bull. U. S. Fish. Com., iv, 1884, pp. 180-181.)
An adventure with a whale in the River Tay, Scotland.
(Bull. U. S. Fish. Com., iv, 1884, pp. 213-217.)
On the occurrence of corals on the Grand Banks.
(Bull. U.S. Fish. Com., iv, 1884, p. 237.)
Note on the destruction of mackerel by dogfish.
(Bull. U.S. Fish. Com., iv, 1884, p. 248. )
On the scarcity of mackerel in the Gulf of St. Lawrence.
(Bull. U.S. Fish. Com., iv, 1884, pp. 427-430. )
On the scarcity of mackerel in the Gulf of St. Lawrence.
(Bull. U.S. Fish. Com., iv, 1884, pp. 435-438.)
On the abundance of halibut near Iceland.
(Bull. U.S. Fish. Com., iv, 1884, pp. 463-464. )
Notes on certain Laride and Procellariidee of the New England coast.
(The Auk, i, July, 1884, pp. 236-238. )
Our fishing vessels.
(Cape Ann Bulletin, January 9, 1884.)
Greater safety for our fishermen.
(Cape Ann Bulletin, January 16, 1884.)
The new fishing model; practical illustrations of the latest ideas in
building vessels for the fisheries.
(Cape Ann Advertiser, November 7, 1884. )
Halibut on the coast of Norway.
(Cape Aun Bulletin, December 6, 1884.)
Result of the introduction of gill-nets into the American cod fisheries,
(Report American Fish Cultural Association, 1884, pp, 212-228, )
350 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884.

WILLIAM HEALEY DALL.

Notes on fishing products exported from San Francisco, Cal., during
the year 1883.
(Bull. U.S. Fish. Com., iv, 1884, pp. 125-128. )

On the constitution of some appendages of the mollusca.
(American Naturalist, xviii (No. 8, Aug. 1884), pp. 776-778.)
Report on the mollusca of the Commander Islands, Bering Sea, col-
lected by Leonhard Stejneger in 1882 and 1883,
(Proc. U.S. Nat. Mus., vii, Sept. 4, 1884, pp. 340-349. Plate ii, figs. 1, 2,3, 4, 5.)
A new voleano island in Alaska.
(Science, iii (No. 51, Jan. 25, 1884), pp. 89-93. )
The false prophet of the Sudan. Review.
(Science, iii (No. 54, Feb. 15, 1884), pp. 199-200.)
A woman’s journey to the Karakorum Valley. Review.
(Science, iii (No. 55, Feb. 22, 1884), pp. 228-229. )
Recent work on brachiopods. Review.
(Science, iii (No. 58, Mar. 14, 1884), p. 325.)
The state of exploration in Africa. Review.
(Science, iii (No. 61, April 4, 1884), pp. 413-415.)
Tryon’s conchology. Review.
(Science, iii (No. 67, May 16, 1884), p. 601.)
Journey of Lessar to Seraks. Review.
(Science, iii (No. 68, May 23, 1884), pp. 628-629.)
Invertebrates of the falisman expedition. Review.
(Science, ili (No. 69, May 30, 1884), pp. 657-658. )
Thouar and Crevaux. Review.
(Science, iii (No. 69, May 30, 1884), pp. 660-661.)
A new classification of the mollusca.

(Science, iii (No. 71, June 13, 1884), pp. 730-732.)

Review of the article on mollusca, by Prof. EK. Ray Lankester, in Encyclo-
pedia Britannica, xvi, p. 632, et seqg.,1884. See also Science, No. 81, pp. 143-
144; No. 87, pp. 334-335; and,No. 88, p. 351.

Headwaters of the Atna or Copper River. Review.

(Science, iii (No. 73, June 27, 1884), p:779.)

A remarkable new type of mollusks. :

(Science, 1v (No. 76, July 18, 1884), pp. 50-51.)

Describes Chlamydoconcha Orcutti Dall, a type of new family, genus, and spe-
cies from California, from specimens in the U.S. National Museum and Acad-
emy of Sciences, Philadelphia.

The new Bogosloff voleano. Review.
(Science, iv (No. 80, Aug. 15, 1884), pp. 1388-139.)
The international polar stations. Review.
(Science, iv (No. 89, Oct, 17, 1884), pp. 370-372, 1 map.)

Mey E> hs aa

ee

ve"

BIBLIOGRAPHY OF U. 8. NATIONAL MUSEUM. 351

Kafiristan. Review.
(Science, iv (No. 90, Oct. 24, 1884), pp. 404-405. )

A Musselman propaganda. Review.
(Science, iv (No. 93, Nov. 14, 1884), pp. 457-459.)

Late news from the northwest. Review.
(Science, iv (No. 94, Nov. 21, 1884), pp. 474~475.)

Exploration of the Kowak River. Review.
(Science, iv (No. 98, Dec. 19, 1884), pp. 551-554.)

Pre-Historic America, by the Marquis de Nadaillac. Translated by N.
D’Anvers. Edited by W.H. Dall. With 219 illustrations. New
York and London. G. P. Putnam’s Sons. The Knickerbocker
Press. 1884. Royal 8vo. pp. x; 566.

On masks, labrets, and certain aboriginal customs, with an inquiry into
the bearing of their geographical distribution.

Printed as a separate, and intended for Annual Report of the Bureau of
Ethnology for 1882. 8vo. pp. 67-200. Plates v-xxix.

United States Coast and Geodetic Survey, J. E. Hilgard, Superin-
tendent. Pacific Coast Pilot. Alaska. Part I. Price $2. Wash-
ington: Government Printing Office. 1883. pp. i-x; 1-333.
Sm. fol.; 16 charts; 13 plates.

This embraces the coast of Alaska from Dixon entrance to Yakutat Bay

with the Inland Passage.
Although this work was published in 1883, it was not issued until 1884.

FREDERIC PERKINS DEWEY,

A biographical sketch of the late Dr. George Wesson Hawes.
(Report, Smithsonian Institution 1882 (1884), pp. 35-38.)

Chemical examination.

(Report on the Building Stones of the United States and Statistics of the
Quarry Industry for 1880; Publications of the Tenth Census; Vol. x; Chap-
ter iii, pp. 30-32.) *

Gives the application of Thoulet’s method for the examination of rocks by
means of the heavy Iodide of Potassium and Iodide of Mercury solution to
building stones, also the method used for the examination of the group of
carbonates.

Plan to illustrate the mineral resources of the United States, and their
utilization, at the World’s Industrial and Cotton Centennial Expo-
sition of 1884-1885, at New Orleans.

(Proc. U. 8. Nat’ Mus., vii, 1884, pp. 617-624.)

Also published as Museum Circular No. 31.

HERMAN GEORGE DRESEL.

Notes on some Greenland fishes.

(Proc. U. 8. Nat. Mus., vii, Aug. 20, 1884, pp. 244-258.)
[See also under TART.ETON HOFFMAN BEAN. ]
352 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884.

ROBERT EDWARD EARLL.

Great International Fisheries Exhibition. London, 1883. United
States of America. J.—Catalogue of the apparatus for the capture
of fish exhibited by the United States National Museum. By R.
Edward Earll, curator of the Fisheries Collections, U. S. National
Museum, and assistant, U. S. Fish Commission. Washington:
Government Printing Office. 1884. 8vo. pp. 1-206 (825-1030).

Great International Fisheries Exhibition. London, 1883. United
States of America. L.—Catalogue of the Fish-Cultural Exhibit of
the United States Fish Commission. By R. Edward Earll, curator
of the Fisheries Collections, U. S. National Museum, and assistant,
U.S. Fish Commission. Washington: Government Printing Office.
1884. 8vo. pp. 1-95 (1155-1249).

Hatching blackfish and Spanish mackerel.

(Bull. U. 8. Fish. Com., iv, 1884, pp. 415-416.)

GEORGE BROWN GOODE.

Report of the Assistant Director of the United States National Museum
for 1882.

(Smithsonian Report, 1882 (1884), pp. 119-263.)

Department of the Interior, U. 8. National Museum. Bulletin of the
United States National Museum. No. 27. Descriptive catalogues
constituting a report upon the exhibit of the fisheries and fish cul-
ture of the United States of America, made at the London Fisheries
Exhibition, 1883. Prepared under the direction of G. Brown
Goode, U. 8. Commissioner, and a staff of associates. Washing-
ton: Government Printing Office. 1884. 8vo. pp.1-1279. )S.L
series No. 511.)

Fishery treaties.

(Cyclopedia of Political Economy, iii, 1884, pp. 941-944.)
The aims and limitations of modern fish-culture.
(Science, iii (No. 54, February 15, 1884), p. 208.)

The oyster industry.

(Encyclopedia Britannica, 9th edition, vol. xviii, pp: 107-110.)

The discussion by the American Ornithologists Union of the system of
zoological nomenclature.

(Science, iii (No. 56, February 29, 1884), pp. 241-242.)

The exploring voyage of H. M. 8. Challenger.

(Science, iii (No. 66, May 9, 1884), p. 576, iv (No. 79, August 8, 1884), p.
116, iv (No. 82, August 29, 1884), p. 176.)
The invention of the vertical camera in photography. “
(Science, iii (No. 70, June 6, 1884), p. 672.)
Professor Gill on the assumptions of museum keepers.
(Science, iii (No. 71, June 13, 1884), p. 703.)

ts

Uy
;

i 7

—

fy ee) eo ea rere ee ee

ene ae ee a ee. ee ee
ae eS FF

o>. Cae eee

BIBLIOGRAPHY OF U. 8S. NATIONAL MUSEUM. 303

On the oyster industry.
(Science, iti (No. 71, June 13, 1884), p. 720.) Abstract.
The oyster industry of the world.
(Bull. U. S. Fish Com., iv, 1884, pp. 468-469; Report American Fish Cul-
tural Association, 1884, pp. 146-148.)
GEORGE BROWN GOODE AND TARLETON H. BEAN,

Notes on some Florida fishes.
(Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., vii, June 3, 1884, pp. 42-47.)

GEORGE BROWN GOODE AND JOHN MATTHEW JONES.

Department of the Interior, U. 8. National Museum. Bulletin of the
United States National Museum. No. 25. Contributions to the
natural history of the Bermudas. Volumel. Edited by J. Matthew
Jones and George Brown Goode. Washington: Government Print-
ing Office. 1884. 8vo. pp. xxiii; 1-353.
8. I. Series No. 495.

ROMYN HITCHCOCK.

Plan of a collection to illustrate the textile industries of the United
States to be exhibited at the World’s Industrial and Cotton Cen-
tennial Exposition of 1884-1885 at New Orleans.

(Proc. U.S. Nat. Mus., vii, 1884, pp. 557-572. )
Also published as Museum Circular No. 24.

WILLIAM TELL HORNADAY,

Common faults in the mounting of quadrupeds.
(Third Annual Report Society of American Taxidermists, 1884, pp. 67-71.)
A critical statement of the most universal, glaring, and reprehensible faults
of mammal taxidermists, as shown by their work.
Brief directions for removing and preserving the skins of mammals.

(Proc. U.S. Nat. Mus., vi. 1883 (1884), pp. 485-491. Four illustrations. )
Also published as Museum Circular No. 22.

FREDERIC AUGUSTUS LUCAS.

On the mounting of crustaceans.
(Third Annual Report Society of American Taxidermists, 1884, pp. 74-77.)
On the mounting of turtles.
(Third Annual Report Society of American Taxidermists, 1884, pp. 84-90.
Two diagrams.)

JOHN BELKNAP MARCOU.

A review of the progress of North American invertebrate paleontology
for 1883.
(American Naturalist, April, 1884, pp. 385-392.)
8. Mis. 33, pt. 2——23

354 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884.

JOHN BELKNAP MARCOU [JULES MARCOU AND}.

United States Geological Survey, J. W. Powell, director. Mapoteca
Geologica Americana. <A catalogue of geological maps of America
(North and South), 1752-1881. In geographic and chronologic
order. By Jules Marcou and John Belknap Marcou. Washington:
Government Printing Office. 1884. 8vo. pp. 1-184.

This work is published as Bulletin No. 7 of the U. 8. Geological Survey.

OTIS TUFTON MASON.

—583. An account of the progress in anthropology in the year 1883.
By Prof. Otis T. Mason. From the Smithsonian Report for 1883. |
— Washington: Government Printing Office. 1884. 8vo. pp.
J—43.
Separate: also in Smithsonian Report for 1883.
Fuegian ethnology.
(American Naturalist, xviii, 1884, p. 99.)
The Atlantis.
(American Naturalist, xviii, 1884, p. 99.)
British anthropology.
(American Naturalist, xviii, 1884, p. 216.)
Weather proverbs.
(American Naturalist, xviii, 1884, p. 319.)
The Anthropological Society of Washington.
5 (American Naturalist, xviii, 1884, p. 321.)
The folk-lore of Shakespeare.
(American Naturalist, xvili, 1884, p. 443.)
The British Anthropometric Committee.
(American Naturalist, xviii, 1884, p. 646.)
Anthropology at the National Capital.
(American Naturalist, xviii, 1884, p. 648.)
The mound-builders.
(American Naturalist, xviii, 1884, p. 745.)
Uniform craniometry. -
(American Naturalist, xvili, 1884, p. 839.)
Ethnology of British Guiana.
(American Naturalist, xviii, 1884, p. 840.)
Bureau of Ethnology.
‘(American Naturalist, xviii, 1884, p. 952.)
Peabody Museum.
(American Naturalist, xviii, 1884, p. 956.)

BIBLIOGRAPHY OF U. 8S. NATIONAL MUSEUM. 355

Anthropology in France.

(American Naturalist, xviii, 1884, p. 1065.)
Physiological inquiries.

(American Naturalist, xviii, 1884, p. 1067.)
The Health Report of Washington.

(American Naturalist, xviii, 1884, p. 1171.)

The Indian Office Report.
(American Naturalist, xviii, 1884, p. 1172.)

GEORGE PERKINS MERRILL.

On Prochlorite from the District of Columbia.
(Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., vii, June 11, 1884, p. 67.)
Hornblende andesite from the new Bogosloff volcano.
(Science, iv (No. 97, Dec. 12, 1884.), p. 524.)

Notes on the character of the rock formation in the vicinity of Auburn,

Maine.
(Report Maine State College, for 1884.)

Read before the Scientific Society of the Maine State College, April, 1884.
The origin of soils.
(Prairie Farmer, Aug. 2, 1884, p. 489.)
Microscopic structure.

(Report on the building stones of the United States, and statistics of the quarry in-
dustry, for 1880. Publicationsof Tenth Census, vol. x; chapter ii, pp. 15-29.
18 plates.) :

Preliminary plan for a collection of the building and ornamental stones
and rocks of the United States, to be exhibited at the World’s In-
dustrial and Cotton Centennial Exposition of 1884~85, at New Or-
leans.

(Proc. U. 8. Nat. Mus., vii, 1884, pp. 573-574.)
Also published as Museum Circular No. 25.

RICHARD RATHBUN.

Annotated list of the described species of Parasitic Copepoda, (Siphono-
stoma) from American waters, contained in the United States Na-
tional Museum.

(Proc. U. 8. Nat. Mus., vii, Sept. 27, 1884, pp. 483-492.)

Twenty-six species previously described by American and European au-
thorities are recorded from specimens now in the Museum. Nine are recent
additions to the fauna of North America. Most of the species were obtained
from the New England coast by the U. S. Fish Commission, but several are
from other regions, including Alaska, The paper is in the form of a record
of specimens, complete data being given with reference to each entry of
specimens. But few notes are added,

356 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884.

Notes on the decrease of lobsters.
(Trans. Amer. Fish Cult. Assoc., 1834, pp. 201-208; Bull. U. S. Fish Com.,
iv, 1834, pp. 421-426 5 Forest and Stream, xxiii, No.5, August 28, 1884, p. 89.)

A paper read at the thirteenth annual meeting of the American Fish Cul-
tural Association, held in the U. 8. National Museum, Washington, D. C.,
May 13-15, 1884, and based upon the returns of the Fishery Census of 1880.

The American initiative in methods of deep-sea dredging.
(Science iv (No. 76, July 18, 1884), pp. 54-57.)

A brief historical sketch of deep-sea investigations by Americans, with
special reference to improvements made in appliances for deep-sea dredging. —

American appliances for deep-sea investigation.

(Science, iv (No. 81, Aug. 22, 1884), pp. 146-151; Science, iv (No. 84, Sept. —
12, 1884), pp. 225-229 ; Science, iv (No. 90, Oct. 24, 1884), pp. 400-404.) 1

Brief descriptions, with illustrations of the deep-sea appliances for dredg-
ing now in use by American explorers, and mainly devised or improved by |
members of the U. S. Fish Commission and U.S. Coast Survey. The paper
is divided into the following subjects: The dredges; trawls and tangles; wire-
dredge rope, sieves, &c.

CHARLES RAU.

Extrait des Annales du Musée Guimet. Tome x. La Stéle de Pa-
lenqué* du Musée National des Etats-Unis, 4 Washington, par le
Dr. Charles Rau. Traduit de PAnglais avec Autorisation de ’Au-
teur. Lyon Imprimerie Pitrat Ainé, 4, rue Gentil, 4, 1884. Small -
quarto. pp. 1-103. 5 plates. 14 figures.
Les Statuettes contrefaites du Mont Pisgah. Review.
(Revue d’Ethnographie, iii, No. 1, Paris, 1884, p. 89.)

Circular relative to Contributions of Aboriginal Antiquities to the
United States National Museum.
(Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus. vi, 1883 (1884), pp. 479-483.)
Printed in 1883 as Circular 21, U. 8. National Museum.
Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge. 509. Prehistoric Fishing
in Europe and North America. By Charles Rau. Washington
City: Published by the Smithsonian Institution. 1884. 4to.
i-xvilii; pp. 342. 406 illustrations.

ROBERT RIDGWAY.

Note on Zenaidura yucatanensis, Lawr.

(The Auk, i, Jan., 1884, p. 96.)
Critical remarks on the type specimen in the collection of the U. 8. National
Museum.

*This work was also published in Spanish in 1880 under the title ‘“‘Tablero del
Palenque en el Museo Nacional de los Estados-Unidos,” as No. 3, vol. iii of the ‘An-
ales del Museo Nacional de Mexico.”

BIBLIOGRAPHY OF U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM. 357

Note on Phalacrocorax violaceus and P. violaceus resplendens.

(The Auk, i, April, 1884, p. 165.)

Appended to an article by N. 8. Goss.

Ortyx virginianus not in Arizona.

(Forest and Stream, xxii (No. 7, March 13, 1884), p. 124.)

In reference to the asserted occurrence of O. virginianus near Tucson, Ari-
zona, The species eventually proved, as suggested in the article above cited,
to be O. graysoni, Lawr.

Southern limit of quail and grouse.

(Forest and Stream, xxii (No. 13, April 24, 1884), p. 243.)

Correcting an error in an article in the preceding number, accrediting the
Virginian Partridge, Ortyx virginianus, and Ruffed Grouse, Bonasa wnbellus,
to Costa Rica; the species meant being Ortyx leylandi and Dendrortyx macrurus.

Remarks on two birds usually referred to the genus Parula, but which
appear to be generically distinct, and for which the generic term
Orcothlypis is proposed.

(The Auk, i, April, 1884, p. 169.)

Incorporated with Dr. Stejneger’s ‘‘Analecta Ornithologica,” No. iii.

On a collection of Birds from Nicaragua, by Charles C. Nutting, and
edited by R. Ridgway.

On some Costa Rican Birds, with descriptions of several supposed new
species.

(Proc. U. 8. Nat. Mus., vi, 1883, April 11, 1884, pp. 410-415.)

Carpodectes antoniw, Zeledon (redescribed) ; Vireo carmioli, Baird? ; Phenico-
thraupis carmioli, Lawr.; Tachyphonus nitidissimus, Salv.; T. luctuosus, Lafr.
and D’Orb.; Chlorospingus pileatus, Salv.; Lanio melanopygius, Ridgw., sp.
nov. ; Empidonazx atriceps, Salv.; E. viridescens, Ridgw., sp. nov.; Pitiasoma
michleri zeledoni, Ridgw., subsp. nov.; Acanthidops bairdi, Zeledon. A new
generic name—Chlorothraupis, proposed for ‘‘ Phenicothraupis” carmioli, Lawr.
In addition to the species mentioned above, a list is given of 18 other species,
with localities and dates, and of 5 species obtained from Dr. Van Patten, 4
of which were new to Costa Rica.

Remarks upon the close relationship between the white and scarlet
Ibises (Zndocimus albus and E. ruber).
(The Auk, i, July, 1884, pp. 239-240.)
Note on Astur atricapillus striatulus.
(The Auk, i, July, 1884, pp. 252-253.)
On the possible specific identity of Buteo cooperi, Cass., with B. harlani,
Aud.
(The Auk, i, July, 1884, pp. 253-254.)
Probable breeding of the Red Crossbill, Loxia curvirostra americana,
in Central Maryland.
(The Auk, i, July, 1884, p. 292.)

The probable breeding-place of Passerculus princeps.
(The Auk, i, July, 1884, p. 292.)
358 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884.

Another Kirtland’s Warbler from Michigan.
(The Auk, i, July, 1884, p. 389.)

On a new Carpodectes from Southwestern Costa Rica.
(The Ibis, fifth series, ii (No. 5, Jan., 1884), p. 27. One plate.)

Notes on three Guatemalan birds.

(The Ibis, fifth series, ii (No. 5, Jan., 1884), pp. 43-45.)
Chrysomitris atriceps, Salv., Ammodromus petenicus, Salv., and Spizella pineto-
rum, Salv.

Note on Selasphorus torridus, Salvin.
(Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., vii, June 3, 1884, p. 14.)

On Melanetta fusca (Linn.) in Alaska. -
(Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., vii, June 11, 1884, p. 68.)

Description of a new Snow Bunting from Alaska.

(Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., vii, June 11, 1884, pp. 68-70.)
Plectrophenax hyperboreus; McKay’s Snow Bunting.

On a collection of birds made by Messrs. J. E. Benedict and W. Nye,
of the United States Fish Commission steamer Albatross.
(Proc. U. §. Nat. Mus., vii, July 29, 1884, pp. 172-180.)
New species described are as follows: From the island of Curagao: (1)
Mimus gilvus rostratus, (2) Dendroica rufopileata, (3) Icterus curasoénsis, (4)
Zenaida vinaceo-rufa. From the island of Oid Providence, Caribbean Sea:
(5) Certhiola tricolor, (6) Vireosylvia grandior, (7) Vireo approximans, (8) Elainea
cinerascens.
Description of a new species of Field Sparrow from New Mexico.
(Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., vii, Aug. 22, 1884, p. 259.)
Spizella wortheni.
Description of a new species of Coot from the West Indies.
(Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., vii, Sept. 17, 1884, p. 358.)
Fulica caribea; islands of Guadeloupe and Saint Johns, Lesser Antilles.
Account of exhibit of the Department of Birds in course of prepara-
tion for the New Orleans Exposition.
(The Auk, i, Oct., 1884, p. 403.)

A general statement of the condition, extent, &c., of the bird collections
of the National Museum.
(The Auk, i, Oct., 1884, pp. 403-404. )

Notes on some Japanese birds related to North American species.
(Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., vi, 1884, pp. 368-371.)

The bird collection of the National Museum.
(Science, iv (No. 95, Nov. 28, 1884), pp. 496-497.)
A general account of the origin, extent, arrangement, purpose, and condi-
tion of the collection,
[See also under SPENCER FULLERTON BAIRD. ]

i.”

BIBLIOGRAPHY OF U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM. - 359
CHARLES VALENTINE RILEY.

Recent outbreaks of the Army-worm.

(Rural New Yorker, 43, Jan. 12, 1884, p. 19.)

Rare occurrence of Leucania unipuncta in 1882 and 1883, following its last
abundant oceurrence in 1881; occurrence of the larve at East Windsor, Vt.,
in June, 1883.

Recent advances in economic entomology.

(Proc. Philos. Soc. Wash., vii, 1884, pp. 10-12.)

Separate, without title-page [Wash., 1884], pp. 10-12. 8vo.

Abstract of communication made to Philosophical Society of Washington,
February 2, 1884; characteristics of economic entomology as a science, and
difficulties of its prosecution ; mention of chief insecticide substances, and
discussion of their applicability; notice of recent progress in mechanical
appliances. :

Tribute to the memory of John Lawrence Leconte.

(Psyche, 4, Nov.—Dec., 1883 [Feb. 11. 1884], pp. 107-110.)

Separate : without title-page [Cambridge, Mass., Feb., 11, 1884], pp. 107-
110. 8vo.

Notice. Psyche, ut cit., p. 119.

Biographical notice of J. L. Leconte, b. May 13, 1825, d. Nov., 15, 1883;
amount, character, and importance of Leconte’s work and writings; his per-
sonal character; his relations with G. H. Horn; disposition of his entomo-
logical collection.

General truths in applied entomology. Essay.

(Trans. Georgia State Agric. Soc., 1884, pp. 153-159. )

General truths in applied Entomology; being a paper read before the
Georgia State Agricultural Society, at Savannah, Ga., February
12, 1884, by Charles V. Riley, Ph. D., United States Entomologist.
Extracted from the Transactions of Georgia State Agricultural
Society, 1884. With title-page and cover: pp. 153-159. 8vo.

Importance of insects and of the study of economic entomology; causes of
the destructive prevalence and amount of the ravages of insects in Norti
America; complicated nature of the problem which the economic entomolo-
gist has to solve; mention of the principal insecticide substances in use now
and formerly ; special availability of several of these substances for certain

_ purposes; transcendent importance of arsenical substances (arsenic, Paris
green and London purple), petroleum and pyrethrum for insecticide purposes;
methods of preparation and use of these latter substances; specific action of
pyrethrum powder, its effect on higher animals, and probable use in medicine
and as a disinfectant; petroleum emulsions against Phyloxera vastatriz;
mechanical devices for spraying liquid insecticides.

The Army-worm, Leucania unipuncta, Haw.

(3d Rep. U.S. Entom. Com., 1883 [March 1884], pp. 89-156, pl. 1-2; expl,
of pl. on p. 2 of expl. of pl.)

The Army-worm; being an account of its history and injuries in the
United States up to the year 1883, with practical recommendations,
Author’s edition.

(Extracted from the Third Report of the United States Entomological Com-
mission, 1883. Washington, March, 1884, pp. 89-156, pl. 1-2. 8 vo.)
360 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884.

The army Worm, Leucania unipuncta Haw. Advance reprint.

(Rep. [U. 8.] Commiss. Agric. for 1881 and 1882 [Jan., 1883. ])

(Riley, C. V., Rep. of the Entomologist [Dec.], 1882, p. 89-106 [29-46.])

Chapter 6 of 3d Report of U. S. Entomological Commission. Various sig-
nificances of the term “ army-worm;” synonomy, geographical distribution,
ravages, seasons, food-plants, enemies and parasites of and meats against
Leucania unipuncta ; past history of this insect in detail; detailed descriptions
of eggs, larve (at all stages), pupa, and imago; sexual differences in imagos;
figures of egg, larva, pupa, and imago, and of several parasites and enemies;
detailed accounts of habits; periods, prolificacy, oviposition, hibernation, and
number of broods yearly ; causes of sudden appearance and disappearanee;
bibliography of the literature concerning Leucania unipuncta.

Canker-worms.

(3d Rep. U. S. Entom. Com., 1883 [March, 1884], pp. 157-197, pl.3; expl. of
pl. on p. 2 of expl. of pl.)

Canker worms; being an account of the two species injurious to fruit
and shade trees, with practical suggestions. Author’s edition.

(Extracted from the Third Report of the United States Entomological Com-
mission, 1883.” [Washington, 1884], pp. 157-198, pl. 3. 8vo.)

Chapter 7 of 3d Report of U. S. Entomological Commission. Systematic
position and general characteristics of Paleacrita vernata and Anisopteryx pome-
taria ; nomenclature and synonomy, past history, geographical distribution,
seasons, habits, food-plants, enemies, parasites and ravages of and means
against these two species, with detailed tabular and comparative descriptions,
and with figures of eggs, larve, pup, imagos, and details for their discrim-
ination.

Oviposition of the Round-headed Apple-tree borer.

(Rural New Yorker, 43, March 1, 1884, p. 132, ? fig. 73.)

Notice of C. G. Atkins’ ‘“‘ Eggs of Round-headed Apple-tree borer” (op. cit.,
January 12, 1884, p. 19), confirming Atkins’ account of the method of oviposi-
tion of Saperda bivittata, and describing this method, referring to and quoting
from author’s ‘‘ New facts about the round-headed apple-tree borer” (N. Y.
Weekly Tribune, February 20, 1878), in which the explanation of this method
was first published, and correcting several statements in Wm. Saunders’ “ In-
sects injurious to fruits, * * * 1883,” in regard to the oviposition of dif-
ferent insects; description and figure of egg of S. bivittata; figures of the
burrows and hole of exit of this beetle, and figures of the pupa and of the
position of the egg when deposited.

The Chinch-bug. (Another entomologist expresses his views regarding
the farmers’ pest.) ;
(Watertown (N. Y.) Daily Times, March 27, 1884.) ny
Notice of articles by J. A. Lintner on the occurrence of Blissus leucopterus
in New York State, in unusual abundance, in 1882 and 1883; this occurrence
not regarded as warrant for great alarm ; recommendations of means against
this insect.
A root-infesting insect.

(Rural New Yorker, 43, April 5, 1884, p. 221.)

Inquiry from H. P., of Archer, Fla,, with answer; roots of several plants
injured by nematodes of the genus Anguillula ; incomplete life-history of and
suggestion of means against these worms.

! oe

BIBLIOGRAPHY OF WU. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM. 361

Notes on North American Psyllide.

(Proc. Biol. Soc. Wash., ii, 1882-1884, pp. 67-79.)

Printed as separate, with same title. Washington, April 10, 1884.

Notice of earlier studies of European and North American Psyllid@; list of
the 18 nominal species of Psyllid@ hitherto described from North America;
systematic and synonymical list of the same; descriptions of Pachypsylla, n. g.
(psylline) and of its three known species—P. venusta, P. celtidis-mamma, and
P. (Blastophysa [new subgenus]) celtidis-gemma,n. sp.; dichotomic table of
these three species of Pachypsylla; descriptions of Ceropsylla, n. g. (triozine),
C. sideroxyli; n. sp., Rhinopsylla, n. g. (triozine), and Rh. schwarzii, n. sp.

The Silk Industry in the United States.

(Science, iii [No. 57, March 7, 1884], pp. 290-292.)

Review of Wm. C. Wyckoft’s “Silk manufacture in the United States”
[not seen]; early history and present status of silk-culture in North America;
criticism of Wyckoff’s estimates of the amount of silk raised in early times;
respective relations of silk-cnlture and silk manufacture to questions of free
trade and protection in the United States.

Remarks on the Bag-worm: Thryidopteryx ephemereformis.

(To be published in Proce. Biol. Soc. Wash., 2, 1882-1884 (April, 1884), pp. 80-
83, figs. 1-3.) :

Printed as separate. Washington, April 10, 1884.

Explanation of the more important and less known facts in relation to the
life-history of Thryidopteryx ephemereformis, especially in reference to the act
of coition and the occurrence of parthenogenesis; figures of the insect in all
stages and of the external male genitalia.

Introduction. (U.S. Department of Agriculture, Division of Entomol-
ogy.) Reports of observations. [Bulletin, No. 4.] Washington,
May 3, 1884, pp. 7-8.

Notices of the several reports of agents of the Division of Entomology of

the U. S. Department of Agriculture, published in Bulletin No. 4 of that
division.

Acronycta betule, n. sp.

(Bull. Brooklyn Entom. Soc.,7, May, 1884, pp. 2-3, fig. —.)
Describes Acronycta betula, n. sp., reared from Betula nigra; seasons and
habits of larva; comparison with related species.

Quelques mots sur les insecticides aux Etats-Unis, et proposition @’un
nouveau reméde contre le Phylloxera.

(Communication faite & la Société d’Agriculture de l’Hérault A la séance
du 30 juin 1884. Montpellier, 1884. pp.1-8 8vo.)

Address made at meeting of Société d’Agriculture de ’Hérault, at-Mont-
pellier, France, June 30, 1884. Resistant vines better than the best insecti-
cides as a means against Phylloxera vastatrix ; mention of principal insecticides
in use in America, especially arsenical substances, petroleum, and pyrethrum,
the modern improved use of which the author introduced; method of action
and mode of application of these insecticides, especially application by the
cyclone nozzle, and the subterranean application of kerosene emulsion as a
means against Ph. vastatriz; believes tobacco vapor, under favorable condi-
tions, would kill this insect,
362 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884.

“Riley & Montpellier,”
With editorial introduction, discussion, and an account of a banquet in
honor of Mr. Riley, which followed.

(Messager du Midi, tome v, July 10, 1884, pp. 255-265. )

The Psyllid@ of the United States.

(Proc. Amer. Assoc. Advane. Sci., xxxii (1883), 1884 Riley, C. V. The psyl-
lid of the United States [Salem, Mass. ], July, 1884, p. 319.)

Abstract of communication made to American Association for the Advance-
ment of Science at its Minneapolis meeting, Angust, 1883; characteristic and
economic importance of Psyllidw; status of the present knowledge of this
family in United States; list of the new genera and species described in the
communication, with statement of the food-plants of these species; charac-
teristics of the eggs and young of Psyllide.

Some recent discoveries in reference to Phylloxera.

(Proc. Amer. Assoc. Advance. Sci., xxxii, 1883 (1884). (RiLtey, C. V. The
Psyllide of the United States [Salem, Mass.], July, 1884), p. 320.)

Abstract of communication made to American Association for the Advance-
ment of Science, at its Minneapolis meeting, August, 1883; interest attaching
to a knowledge of the life history of insects of the genus Phylloxera ; imper-
fectness of this knowledge; degree to which it has attained; character of
gall and location of impregnated egg of Ph. spinosa.

Improved method of spraying trees for protection against insects.

(Proc. Amer. Assoc. Advane. Sci., xxxii, 1883 (1884), pp. 466-467. )

Abstract of communication made to American Association for the Advance-
ment of Science at its Minneapolis meeting, August, 1883; brief description
of apparatus, especially of “ cyclone nozzle” and adjustable hose, devised for
spraying trees with various insecticides; mention of insecticide substances
used.

The Psyllide of the United States.

(Proc. Amer. Assoc. Advane. Sci., xxxii, August, 1883; Minneapolis meeting
(July 1884), pp. 319-320, 466-467. 8vo.)

Separate of papers published by author in Proceedings of American Associ-
ation for the Advancement of Science, xxxii, 1883 (1884), with following titles:
The Psyllide of the United States, p. 319.—Some recent discoveries in refer-
ence to Phylloxera, p. 320.—Improved method of spraying trees for protection
against insects, pp. 466-467.

A new insect injurious to wheat.

(Bull. Brooklyn Entom. Soc., vii, December, 1884, pp. 111-112.)

Separate [Brooklyn, N. Y., December, 1884], p. 111. 8vo.

Describes larva, pupa, and female imago of Isosoma grande [“ grandis Err.” ]
n. sp., reared from wheat stems in Indiana.

Report by C. V. Riley.

(Proc. U.S. Nat. Mus., vi, July 27, 1883 (1884), pp. 104-105.)

Review of F. Humbert’s ‘‘ Zucilia macellaria infesting man” (op. cit., pp.
103-104); identification of the insect mentioned in that article, with refer-
ence to other mentions of it, and remarks on its geographical distribution and
means against it.

gee

BIBLIOGRAPHY OF U. S. NATTONAL MUSEUM. 363

Insects in relation to agriculture.

(Encyclopedia Britannica, Amer. ed., 1884 [not seen], pp. 135-142, figs.
1-29.)

Chapter 9 of article ‘‘Agriculture.” Brief accounts, with numerous illustra-
tions, of the insects named below, and of means against them, with cross-refer-
ences to accounts of other insects in other portions of the work. The headings
and subjects of the sub-chapters are as follows: IMPORTANCE OF ECONOMIC
ENTOMOLOGY, p. 135.—InsEcts INJuRIOUS TO FRUIT AND FRUIT-TREES.—
Apple cureulio (The), Anthonomus quadrigibbus, Say, p. 135, fig. 1.—Apple-
maggot (The), or ‘‘railroad-worm,” Trypeta pomonella, Walsh., p. 135.—White-
marked tussock-moth (The), Orgyia leucostigma, Sm. and Abb., pp. 135-136, fig.
2.—Apple-tree tent-caterpillar (The), Clisiocampa americana, Harr., p. 136, figs.
3-4.—Fall webb-worm (The), Hyphantria textor, Harr., p. i856, fig. 5.—Oyster-
shell bark-louse of the Apple (The), Mytilaspis promicorticis, Riley, pp. 136-
137, fig. 6.—Round-headed Apple-tree borer (The), Saperda binittata, Say, p.
137, fig. 7.—Flat-headed Apple-tree borer (The), Chrysobothris femorata, Fabr.,
p. 137.—Spring Canker-worm (The), Paleacrita vernata, Peck, p. 137, figs. 8-9.—
Fall Canker-worm (The), Anisopteryx pometaria, Harris, p. 137, figs. 10-11.—
Peach-tree borer (The), 2geria exitiosa, Say, pp. 137-133, fig. 12.—Currant-
stalk borer (The), Ageria tipaliformis, L., p.138.—Imported currant-worm
(The), Nematus ventricosus, Klug., p. 138, figs. 13-14.— Native eurrant-worm
(The), Pristiphora grossularie, Walsh, p.138.—Snowy tree-cricket (The),
(Ecanthus nivens, Harr., p. 138, figs. 15-16.—INsects INJuRIOUS TO CEREALS
AND FoORAGE-CROPS.—White grub (The), Lachnosterna fusca, Froh., pp. 138-
139, fig. 17.— Clover-seed midge (The), Cecidomyia leguminicola, Lintner, p.
139.—Joint-worm (The), Jsosoma hordei, Harr., p. 139, fig. 18.—Wheat-midge
(The), Diplosis tritici, Kirby, p. 139.—Cut-worms, family Noctuide, genera
Agrotis, Mamestra, Hadena, and Prodenia, p.139.—Wire worms, family Elate-
ride, p.139.—INsEcts INJURIOUS TO GARDEN VEGETABLES.—Imported cab-
bage-worm (The), Pieris rape, Schrank, p. 139, figs. 19-20.—Southern cabbage
butterfly (The), Pieris protadice, Boisd, p.140.—Potherb butterfly (The),
Pieris olevacea, Boisd, p. 140.—Cabbage plusia (The), Plusia brassice, Riley,
p. 140, fig. 21.—Harlequin cabbage-bug (The), Murgantia histrionica, Hahn.,
p. 140, fig. 22.—Pea-weevil (The), Bruchus pisi, Linn., p. 140, fig. 23.—Bean-
weevil (The), Bruchus fabe, Riley, p. 140, fig. 24.— Blister-beetdes, meloid
genera, Macrobasis, Epicauta, &c., p.140, fig. 25.—Striped cucumber-beetle
(The), Diabrotica vittata, Fabr., pp. 140-141, figs. 26-27.—INsEcTs INJURING
MISCELLANEOUS FIrup-crops.—Cotton-boll worm (The), or corn-ear worm,
Heliothis armigera, Hubn., p. 141, fig. 28.—Tobacco-worm (The), Sphinx caro-
lina, L., p.141.—INsEcts INJURIOUS TO THE VINE.—INSECTS INJURIOUS TO
LIVE-STOCK.—Bot-fly of Cattle (The), Hypoderma bovis, Latr., p. 141.—Sheep
bot-fly (The), @strus ovis, Linn., p. 141, fig. 29.—Horse bot-fly (The), Gastro-
philus equi, Fabr., pp. 141-142.—[ List OF PRINCIPAL AMERICAN WRITERS AND
WRITINGS UPON INSECTS IN RELATION TO AGRICULTURE], p. 142. [The above
sub-chapters are not separately recorded. ]

The articles to which cross-references are made are the following: Army
worm, chinch-bug, coddling-moth, Colorado potato-beetle, cotton-worm, Hes-
sian fly, locust, phylloxera, plum cureulio.

Army-worm, Leucania unipuncta, Harr.

(Encyclopedia Brittanica, Amer. ed., 1884 [not seen], pp. 317-318, 2 figs. )

Geographical distribution, seasons, habits, and food-plants of and means
against Leucania unipuncta; references to the more important articles on this
insect; figure of larva and imago.
364 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884.

Orthoptera.

(Standard Natural History (The), ii, 1884, pp. 167-203, figs. 243-285, 1 pl.)

Systematic position and limitations, classificational characters, transforma-
tions, molts, and geographical and geological distribution of the order Or-
thoptera; characters, habits, and distribution of the several families; mention
of the principal North American and of some foreign species, with more par-
ticular accounts of many species, especially in regard to their stridulation,
oviposition, and previously unrecorded life-history facts, with figures of a
few species and of their eggs. The species mentioned most at length are:
Ectobia germanica, Phasmomantis carolina, Diapheromera femorata, Gcanthus
niveus, O. latipennis, Orocharis saltator, Comptonotus scudderi, Cyrtophyllus con-
cavus, Microcentum retinerve, and Caloptenus spretus.

JOHN ADAM RYDER.

On apparatus for collecting oyster spat.
(Bull. U.S. Fish Com., iv, 1884, p. 373.)

On the forces which determine the survival of fish embxyos.
(Transactions of the American Fish Cultural Association, 1884. (Thirteenth
annual meeting), pp. 195-199. (Forest & Stream, Aug. 14, 1884, pp. 50-51.)
Journal of operations on the grounds of the Eastern Shore Oyster Com-
pany on Chincoteague Bay, near Stockton, Md., during the sum-
mer of 1883.
(Bull. U.S. Fish Com., iv, 1884, pp. 43-47.)

Carp do eat young fishes.
(Bull. U.S. Fish Com., iv, 1884, p. 152.)

Report respecting the present condition and future prospects at Saint
Jerome’s Creek for the work of oyster-culture.
(Bull. U.S. Fish Com., iv, 1884, pp. 235-237. )

Floats for the so-called fattening of oysters.
(Bull. U. S. Fish Com., iv, 1884, pp. 302-303.)

Note on the regeneration of the scales of the German carp.
(Bull. U.S. Fish Com., iv, 1884, pp. 345-346.)

On the cause of the greening of oysters.

(Reports: U.S. Fish Com., 1882 (1884), pp. 793-801.)
A translation of ‘‘ Notice sur la cause du verdissement des huitres,” par M.
Puységur, in Rev. Maritime et Coloniale, pp.11, 1 p). Paris, Berger-Levrault
et Cie., 1880.
On accounts of experiments in oyster-culture and observations relating
thereto. (Second series.)
(Report: U. S. Fish Com., 1882 (1884), pp. 763-778. )
On a new form of filter or diaphragm to be used in the culture of oys-
ters in ponds.
(Bull. U. S, Fish Com:, iv, 1884, pp, 17-31.)

tee Or ae Se, ~~ See oh a a ae

BIBLIOGRAPHY OF U. 8. NATIONAL MUSEUM. 365

A contribution to the embryography of osseous fishes.
(Report: U. S. Fish Com., 1882 (1884), pp. 455-605. Plates I-XII. 11
figures. )
On the preservation of embryonic materials and small organisms,
together with hints upon embedding and mounting sections serially.
(Report: U. §. Fish Com., 1882 (1884), pp. 607-629.)
Supplementary note on the coloration of the blood corpuscles of the
oyster.
(Report: U.S. Fish Com., 1882 (1884), pp. 801-805.)
On the development of Mola.
(Science, iv, No. 93, Nov. 14, 1884).
Also in Bulletin of Science, iv.
The side organs of Gastrostomus.
(American Naturalist, xviii (No. 5, May, 1884), p. 547.)
Abstract.
On a skin-parasite of the Cunner, Ctenolabrus adspersus.
(Bull. U. 8. Fish Com., iv, 1884, pp. 37-42.)
On the literature and systematic relations of the Saccopharyngoid
fishes.

[See under THEODORE GILL, p. 373. ]

Morphology and evolution of the tail of osseous fishes.

(Science, iv (No. 87, Oct. 3, 1884), pp. 341-342.)
Abstract of paper read before the American Association for the Advance-
ment of Science in Philadelphia, September, 1884.

The pedunculated lateral-line organs of Gastrostomus.
(Amer. Naturalist, xviii, 1884, p. 547. Science, iii (Mo. 48, Jan. 4, 1884),
p. 5.)
A sketch of the life history of the oyster.

(Appendix II of ‘‘A Review of the Fossil Ostreidw of North America,” in
Fourth Annual Report of the Director U. 8. Geological Survey, 1882-1883
(1884), pp. 317-333, plates Ixxili-lxxxii.

On some points in microtomy.
(The Amer. Monthly Microscop. Jour., v (No. 10, Oct., 1884), pp. 190-191).
On the chlorophylloid granules of Vorticella.

(Proc. U. 8. Nat. Mus., vii, June 3, 1884, pp. 9-12, 1 figure.
Critique.

[See under THEODORE NICHOLAS GILL and JOHN ADAM RYDER. ]
ROBERT EDWARDS CARTER STEARNS.

Transportation of clams and oysters.
(Bull. U. S. Fish Com., iv, 1484, pp. 219-220.)
366 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884.

LEONHARD STEJNEGER.

Dendrocopus purus, a new species of woodpecker from Kamtschatka.
(The Auk, i, Jan., 1884, pp. 35-36.)
Type in National Museum collection.
On changes in ornithological nomenclature.
A reply to critics.
(The Auk, i, April, 1884, pp. 114-120.)
Based on researches prosecuted at the U. S. National Museum.
Notes on the genus Acanthis.
(The Auk, i, April, 1884, pp. 145-156.)
Based on material contained in the collection of the National Museum.

Contributions to the history of the Commander Islands, No. 2. In-
vestigations relating to the date of the extermination of Steller’s
sea-Ccow.

(Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., vii, July 29, 1884, pp. 181-189.)

Analecta Ornithologica. I. The occurrence of Turdus alicia in the
Palearctic region. II. On the earliest available name of the Amer-
ican Titlark. III. A brief review of the synonymy of the genus
Compsothlypis (= Parula). IV. On the earliest available name of
the Cardinal Grosbeak. V. More ‘* Ornithophilologicalities.”

(The Auk, i, April, 1884, pp. 166-173.)
A series of most important articles based wholly upon material in, and
researches prosecuted at, the National Museum.

Analecta Ornithologica. (Second series.) VI. On the Ptarmigans of
Nelson’s “‘ Birds of Bering Sea,” &c., especially those belonging to
the group Attagen, Kaup. VII. On some changes necessary in
North American and European Ornithological Nomenclature, if
gcneric appellations previously applied in botany be not rejected.
VIII. ‘Larus schistisagus, a new species of gull from the North Pa-
cific. IX. Priocella tenuirostris (Aud.) not a bird of Bering Sea or
the Arctic Ocean. X. On old and new generic names.

(The Auk, i, July, 1884, pp. 225-236.)

Analecta ornithologica. (Third series). XI. Notes on Arctic Lari.
XII. Chrysomitris or Spinus? XIII. On the systematic name of
the American Hawk Owl. XIV. On Sterna niletica of Hasselquist.
XV. Habiaagainst Zamelodia. XVI. On the oldest available name
for Wilson’s Phalarope.

(The Auk, i, July, 1884, pp. 358-367. )

A new subspecies of willow grouse, from Newfoundland.
(The Auk, i, July, 1884, p. 368.)

On the use of trinomials in American Ornithology.
(Proc. U; S. Nat. Mus., vii, June 11, 1884, pp. 70-81.)

Remarks on the species of the genus Cepphus.

(Proc, U.S. Nat. Mus., vii, August 5, 1884, pp. 210-229. Six figures.)
A very important monographic essay.

ee ee eS ee ee eee ee

a tut’ o45
ro

Hi

BIBLIOGRAPHY OF -U. 8. NATIONAL MUSEUM. 367

] u . ; s c i oe | ‘ c .
A brief review of the Lagopodes belonging to the group Attagen, Kaup
(Zeitschrift fiir die gesammte Ornithologie (Budapest, Hungary) 1, Jahr-
gang, 1884, pp. 86-92. Plate V.
Based exclusively on specimens in the National Museum collection.
On the shedding of the claws in the Ptarmigans and allied birds.
> >

(American Naturalist, August, 1834, pp. 774-776.)
FREDERICK WILLIAM TRUE.

Great International Fisheries Exhibition. London, 1883. United States
of America. H. Catalogue of the Aquatic Mammals exhibited by
the United States National Museum. By Frederick W. True, cur-
ator of the Department of Mammals, United States National Mu-
seum. Washington: Government Printing Office. 1884. 8vo.
pp. 1-22.

A muskrat with a round tail.

(Science, iv (No. 75, July 11, 1884), p. 34.)
On a new muskrat, Neofiber alleni, from Florida.
(Proc. U.S. Nat. Mus., vii, July 29, 1884, pp. 170-172.)
Description of a new species and genus, intermediate between Fiber and
the Arvicolas.
Barbirussa tusks from an Indian grave in British Columbia.
(Science, iv (No. 75, July 11, 1884), p. 34.)
Photographs of the interior of a coal mine.
(Science, iv (No. 84, Sept. 12, 1884), pp. 223-224.)
Note upon some photographs taken by the Metallurgical Department for
exhibition at the New Orleans Exposition.

Suggestions to the keepers of the U. S. life-saving stations, light-
houses, and light-ships; and to other observers, relative to the best
means of collecting and preserving specimens of whales and por-
poises.

(Extracted from the Annual Report of the Commissioner of Fish and Fish-
eries for 1883 (1884), and printed as a separate). 8vo. pp.1-26. Plates i—xi.

Contains, in addition to detailed instructions for collecting cetaceans, a list
of, an artiticial key to, and figures of, all the genera.

Provisional plan for a collection of mammals to be exhibited at the
World’s Industrial and Cotton Centennial Exposition of 1884~85,
at New Orleans.

A provisional list of the mammals of North and Central America,
and the West Indian Islands.

(Proc. U.S. Nat. Mus., vii, 1884, pp. 585-611.)

This paper was also published as Circular 29, U.S. National Museum.

Contains an enumeration of all the species and varieties of mammals found
north of the Isthmus of Panama, both terrestrial and aquatic.

Bot-flies in a turtle.
(Seience, iv (No. 96, Dec. 5, 1884), p. 511.)
Porpoise-fishing at Cape May, New Jersey.
(Bull. U.S. Fish Com., iv, 1884, pp. 431-432. )
368 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884.

On the skeleton of Phoca (Histriophoca) fasciata, Zimmerman.

(Proc. U.S. Nat. Mus., vi, 1883, pp. 417-426, April 11,1884. Plates xi-xiv.)

Gives a description of the entire skeleton of the Ribbon Seal, based upon a
specimen obtained in Alaska in 1880, by Mr. Wm. H. Dall. Histriophoca is
regarded as a subgenus in the genus Phoca, between Pisa and Pagophilus.

The Lorillard-Charnay collection.

(The Century, Feb., 1884.)

Notes upon the collection of casts of Toltec inscriptions and sculpture re-
cently received by the Museum.

CHARLES DOOLITTLE WALCOTT.

Appendages of the Trilobite.
j (Science, iii (No. 57, March 7, 1884), pp. 279-281, 3 figures. )
Notes on the original specimen described by Prof. Mickleborough (Cin.
Jour. Nat. Hist., vi, 1883, p. 200).
Notes on Paleozoic rocks of Central Texas.
(Amer. Jour. Sci., xxviii, Dec., 1884, pp. 431-433. )
Notes on the discovery of the Grand Cafion of the Colorado, Arizona, in
Central Texas, and the mode of occurrence of the Potsdam formation and
fauna, and the granite of Burnet and Llano counties.

United States Geological Survey. J. W. Powell, director. On the Cam-
brian faunas of North America. Preliminary studies, by Charles
Doolittle Walcott. Washington: Government Printing Office.
1884. 8vo. pp. 1-74. Plates i-x.

This is a review of the fauna of the St. John formation contained in the
Hartt collection at Cornell University, also of the fauna of the Braintree
argillities, and a description of a new genus and species of Phyllopoda, from
the Middle Cambrian of Vermont. A duplicate series of the St. John species
will be given to the National Museum.

United States Geological Survey. J. W. Powell, director. Paleontology
of the Eureka district. By Charles Doolittle Walcott. Washing-
ton: Government Printing Office, 1884. 4to. pp. i-xiii, 1-298,
Plates i-xxiv.

This work forms volume viii of the series of monographs published by the
U.S. Geological Survey.

Deer Creek coal field, White Mountain Indian reservation, Arizona.

(Report and Appendix U.S, Senate Ex. Doc., No. 20, 48th Congress, 2d ses-
sion, pp. 2-7, Noy. 28, 1884.)

LESTER FRANK WARD.

On Mesozoic Dicotyledons.

(Amer. Journ. Sci., 3d series, vol. xxvii, April, 1884, pp. 292-303; Annals and
Magazine of Nat. Hist. (London), 5th series, vol. xiii, May, 1884, pp. 323-396. )

An historical review, with numerous bibliographical citations, of the dis-
covery of dicotyledonous plants in the Cretaceous formation, and an attempt
to correlate the various horizons and localities where found; also an enumer-
ation of the species from each horizon. Concluding reflections upon the
probable Jurassic origin of the subclass Dicotyledens,

BIBLIOGRAPHY OF WU. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM. 369

List of plants added to the Flora of Washington and vicinity, from April
1, 1882, to April 1, 1884.

(To be published in Proe. Biol. Soc. of Wash., vol. ii.)

Printed as a separate, April 10, 1884.

This is a continuation of the general catalogue as published in Bulletin
No. 22, U.S. National Museum (guide to the Flora of Washington and vicin-
| ity), and conforms in arrangement, type, &c., as nearly as possible, with that
‘e publication.

_ Qanlinites and Zamiostrobus.
(Science, iii (No. 65, May 2, 1884), pp. 532-533. )
Reply to a letter by Mr. Joseph F. James, in a previous number of Science,
criticising Mr. Lesquerenx’s figures of these fossil plants in his ‘ Tertiary
Flora.” :
The claims of political science.
(Science, iii (No. 72, June 20, 1884), p. 748.)
A brief note contrasting the treatment of politieal phenomena by scientific
men with that of other departments of natural phenomena, and maintaining
their essential homogeneity.
The Upper Missouri River system. (Illustrated.)
(Popular Science Monthly, xxv(No. 149, Sept., 1884), pp. 594-605. )
A description of the process by which the Upper Missouri and Yellowstone
Rivers excavate and transform their valleys, based upon personal oberva-
tions chiefly made while descending the Missouri in an open boat, from Fort
Benton to Bismarck, in August and September, 1885.

Irrigation in the Upper Missouri and Yellowstone Valleys.
(Science, iv (No. 82, Aug. 29, 1884), pp. 166-168.)
In this article the practicability and importance of irrigating the valleys of

these rivers is pointed out, and the advantage of making it a national enter-
prise to be conducted by the Government is considered.

Sweet Cicely as a bur.

‘ (Bull. of the Torrey Botanical Club, New York, xi, August, 1884, pp. 92-93.)
A note pointing out that seeds of Osmorrhiza longistylis are adapted to being
distributed by animals in the manner of burs,

Mind as a social factor.

(Mind (London), ix, October, 1884, pp. 563-573.)

This paper was read before the Anthropological Society of Washington,
February 1, 1884, as the vice-presidential address for the Sociological Sec-
tion. It was also read before the Metaphysical Club of Johns Hopkins Uni-
versity, April 22,1884. It is an attempt to show that psychic phenomena, as
produced by beings with a highly-developed brain, have constituted a class
so far superior to all other forms of activity, that they must be treated by the
sociologist as distinct and not regarded as identical with the physical forces
of inanimate nature, as is practically done in the current laissez faire phi-
losophy.

The fossil flora of the globe.

(Botanical Gazette, iv, October and November, 1884, pp. 169-174.)

An abstract of three papers on this subject read September 8, 1884, before
the Biological Section of the American Association for the Advancement of
Science at Philadelphia. The subject is treated from the historical, geo-
logical, and botanical standpoints, and a tabular exhibit of the numerical
status of vegetable paleontology is appended.

8. Mis. 33, pt. 2-24

ee ee ee re

§
~

370 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884.

CHARLES ABIATHAR WHITE.

Description of certain aberrant forms of the chamida from the Cretace
ous rocks of Texas. ;
(Bull. U.S. Geol. Survey, No. 4, 1884, pp. 5 (93)-9 (97). Plates i-v.)
Based on material in the National Museum.
On a small collection of Mesozoic fossils obtained in Alaska by Mr. W.
H. Dall, of the U. S. Coast Survey.
(Bull. U.S. Geol. Survey, No. 4, 1884, pp. 10 (98)-15 (103). Plate vi.)
Based on material in “National Museum,
Ou the nautiloid genus, Enclimatoceras, Hyatt, and a description of the
ty pe-species.
(Bull. U. 8. Geol. Survey, No. 4, 1884, pp. 16 (104)-17 (105). Plates vii-ix,)
Based on Museum material.
Fossils of the Indiana rocks, No. 3. |
(Thirteenth Annual Report of the State Geologist of Indiana, pp. 107-180.
Plates 23-29.) ;
Based in part on Museum material.
The enemies and parasites of the oyster, past and present.
(Science, iii (No. 68, May 23, 1884), p. 618.)

On the adaptability of the prairies for artificial forestry.
(Science, iii (No. 62, April 11, 1884), pp. 438-443.)

Glacial drift in Montana and Dakota.
(American Journal of Science, 3d series, xxvii (No. 158, Feb., 1884), pp.
112-113.) F
On the character and function of the epiglottis in the bull-snake
(Pityophis).
(American Naturalist, xviii (No.1, Jan., 1884), pp. 19-21. Two wood-cuts.)
Based in part on Museum material.

The permanence of the domestic instinct in the cat.
(American Naturalist, xviii (No. 2. Feb., 1884), pp. 213-214.)
Certain phases in the geological history of the North American Conti
nent, biologically considered.

Published in pamphlet form and intended for vol. ii, Proceedings of the |
Washington Biological Society.

HENRY CRECY YARROW,

Case of poisoning from the bite of acopperhead (Ancistrodon contortri,
Linn.). |

(Trans. American Journal of the Medical Sciences, Philadelphia, 1884, n.&
elxxiv, pp. 423-435. )
BIBLIOGRAPHY OF U. 8. NATIONAL MUSEUM. Bi

PART III.—PAPERS BY INVESTIGATORS NOT OFFICERS OF THE MUSEUM,
BASED ON MUSEUM MATERIAL.

THOMAS MAYO BREWER,
Boston, Massachusetts,

{See under SPENCER FULLERTON BAIRD. ]

THOMAS MAREAN CHATARD,
Chemist, U. S. Geological Survey.

[See under FRANK WIGGLESWORTH CLARKE. }

ELLIOTT COUES,
Professor of Anatomy, Medical Department, Columbian University, Washington.

Key to North American birds, containing a concise account of every
species of living and fossil bird at present known from the conti-
nent north of the Mexican and United States boundary, inclusive
of Greenland. Second edition, revised to date, and entirely re-
written; with which are incorporated General Ornithology ;
outline of the structure and classification of birds; and Field Or-
nithology ; a manual of collecting, preparing, ard preserving birds.
By Elliott Coues, M. A., M. D., Ph. D., member of the National
Academy of Sciences, &c. Profusely illustrated. Boston: Estes
and Lauriat. 1884. Imp. 8vo. pp. i-x; 1-863.

HENRY WOOD ELLIOTT.

The monk-seal of the West Indies, Monachus tropicalis, Gray.
(Science, iii (June 20, 1884), pp. 752-753.)
Contains a figure of the specimen obtained for the Museum by Professor
Poey, in Cuba, and notes upon the history of the species.
The destruction of carp by the musk-rat (Fiber zibethicus). Methods
of trapping the rodent.
(Bull. U. 8. Fish Com., iv (1884), pp. 296-297.)

WALTER FAXON,
Assistant Professor of Zoology, Harvard University, Cambridge, Mass.

Contributions from the Zoological Laboratory of the Museum of Com-
parative Zoology at Harvard College. No. VII. Descriptions of
new species of Cambarus ; to which is added a synonymical list of
the known species of Cambarus and Astacus.

(Proc. Amer. Acad. Arts and Sciences, xx, 1884, pp. 107-158.)

Describes the following new species from the collection of U. 8. National

Museum :
Page.
Canibaris puncs0eus, MaAxkONeas csc te ene tarieance Gurew vtensousers.s 109
Cambarus simulans, Pe ee ance L aor. ce edae na seer ac 112

Cambarus argillicola, ae Beg Bio Bee pe a Se oa aa ni vamie ewe 115
372 _REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884.

Page
Cambarus’Girardianus, Faxon: . 0-)o.— «nei seen heals eek one 117
Cambarus Palmeri, FN teisoa. kame Ses CoP eee een kde eee 124
Cambarus alabamonsis).< ©) 32S c cence cckipeee beeen eens eee
Cambarus compressus, Of | sameness oma pigs me leeee ine aeaiscoae 127
Cambarus forceps, bE. eens Sok be etme Raheem mn peta cloner 133
Cambarus Shufeldtii, Se As Se Pe Bryce ee 134

Twelve additional species are also described from other sources. The —
synonymical list contains the names of 69 species, of which 56 species (51 of
Oambarus and 5 of Astacus) are found within the limits of the United States.

CHARLES H. FERNALD,

Professor of Natural History, State College, Orono, Me.

Directions for collecting, preserving, and transporting tortricids and
other small moths.
(Proc. U.S. Nat. Mus., vii, 1884, pp. 577-579.)
Also published as Museum circular, No. 27.
SAMUEL GARMAN,

Museum of Comparative Zoology, Cambridge, Mass.

The reptiles of Bermuda. By Samuel Garman, Museum of Compara-
tive Zoology, Cambridge, Mass. From Bulletin No. 25, U. 8. Na-
tional Museum. Washington: Government Printing Office. 1884.
8vo. pp. 285-303.

CHARLES H. GILBERT,

Instructor in Zoology, Indiana University.

A list of fishes collected in the east fork of White River, Indiana, with
descriptions of two new species.
(Proc. U. 8. Nat. Mus., vii, Aug. 5, 1884, pp. 199-205.)

Notes on the fishes of Switz City Swamp, Green County, Indiana.
(Proc. U. 8. Nat. Mus., vii, Aug. 5, 1884, pp. 206-210.
[See under DAvip STARR JORDAN and CHARLES H, GILRERT. ]

THEODORE NICHOLAS GILL,

Professor of Zoology, Columbian University.

Synopsis of the genera of the super-family Teuthidoidea (families Teuthi-
dide and Siganide). ;

(Proc. U. 8. Nat. Mus., vii, Aug. 28, 1884, pp. 275-281.)
[Review of the Progress] of Zoology.

(Smithsonian Report, pp. 565-632, for 1882 (1884).
Synopsis of the Plectognath fishes.

(Proc. U. 8. Nat. Mus., vii, Sept. 18, 1884, pp. 411-497. )

Note on the Sternoptychide.

(Proc, U. 8. Nat. Mus., vii, Sept. 4, 1884, pp. 349-351.)

at hoe ow

BIBLIOGRAPHY OF U. 8. NATIONAL MUSEUM. 378

The osteological characteristics of the Lutjaninz.
(Proc. U. 8. Nat. Mus., vii, Sept. 4, 1884, pp. 351-355. )

A contribution to the terminology of ichthyography.
(Proc. U.S. Nat. Mus., vii, Sept. 17, 1884, pp. 356-357. )

What are the Eurypharyngide ?

(Nature, xxix, p. 236, Jan. 10, 1884.)
THEODORE NICHOLAS GILL AND JOHN ADAM RYDER.

Note on Lurypharynx and an allied new genus.
(Zoologischer Anzeiger, vii, 1884, pp. 119-123.)

On the literature and systematic relations of the saccopharyngoid fishes.
(Proc. U. 8. Nat. Mus., vii, June 3, 1884, pp. 48-65. )

JOHN HENRY GURNEY,
Northrepps, Norwich, England,

On the species of the genus Pernis inhabiting Japan.
(The Ibis, 5th series, ii (No. 7, July, 1884), pp. 275-277.)

A list of the diurnal birds of prey, with references and annotations;
also a record of specimens preserved in the Norfolk and Norwich
Museum. By John Henry Gurney. London: John Van Voorst,
1 Paternoster Row, E.C. 1884. 8vo. i-xv; pp. 1-187.

Contains frequent references to specimens in the U. S. National Museum

collection.
GWYNNE HARRIS HEAP,

Consul-General of the United States at Constantinople.

On an antique Roman mosaic from Carthage, now in the United States
National Museum.

(Proc. U.S. Nat. Mus., vi, 1883 (1884), pp. 415-417.)

This is an interesting account of the discovery of the ‘‘ Mosaic Lion,” and
the manner in which it was obtained by the British agent from an old Arab
sheik.

HENRY WETHERBEE HENSHAW,
Ethnologist, Bureau of Ethnology.
Description of a new song sparrow from the: southern border of the
United States.
(The Auk, new series, i (No. 3, July, 1884), pp. 223-224.)

Melospiza fasciata montana. ‘This paper is based entirely on specimens in
the National Museum collection. ,

On a new gull from Alaska,
(The Auk, new series, i (No. 3, July, 1884), pp. 250-252.) ,
Larus nelsoni ; type in the U. S. National Museum.

The shore larks of the United States and adjacent territory.
(The Auk, new series, i (No. 3, July, 1884), pp. 254-268. )
374 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884.

ERNEST INGERSOLL,
New Haven, Connecticut.
Snow-spectacles.
(Wide Awake, May, 1884. Five wood-cuts. )
Text and illustrations based upon Museum material.
JOHN MATTHEW JONES,
Waterville, Nova Scotia.

The mammals of Bermuda. By John Matthew Jones, F. R.S. C., Fern
Lodge, Waterville, Nova Scotia. From Bulletin No. 25, U.S. Na-
tional Museum. Washington: Government Printing Office. 1884.
8vo. pp. 143-161.

[See under GEORGE BROWN GOODE and JOHN MATTHEW JONES. |

DAVID STARR JORDAN,
President Indiana University, Bloomington, Ind.

Notes on a collection of fishes from Pensacola, Fla., obtained by Silas
Stearns, with descriptions of two new species (Hxocetus volador and
Gnathypops mystacinus).

(Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., vii, June 3, 1884, pp. 33-40.)

Note on Hlurichthys eydouxti and Porichthys porosissimus.
(Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., vii, June 3, 1884, pp. 40-41.)

An identification of the figures of fishes in Catesby’s natural lore of
Carolina, Florida, and the Bahama Islands.
(Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., vii, July 29,1884, pp. 190-199.)

List of fishes collected in Lake Jessup and Indian River, Florida, by
Mr. R. E. Earll, with descriptions of two new species.
(Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., vii, Sept. 1, 1884, pp. 322-324.)

List of fishes collected at Key West, Fla., with notes and descriptions.
(Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., vii, July 7, 1884, pp. 103-150.)

Notes on fishes collected at Guaymas, Mexico, by Mr. H. F. Emeric,
with a description of Gobiosoma histrio, a new species.
(Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., vii, Aug. 22, 1884, pp. 260-261.)

List of fishes collected in the vicinity of New Orleans, by Dr. R. W.
Shufeldt, U. 8. A.
(Proc. U. 8. Nat. Mus. , vii, Aug. 28, 1884, pp. 318-324.)

Descriptions of four new species of sipmelare esa in the United States
National Museum.
(Proc. U. 8. Nat. Mus., vii, Sept. 27, 1884, pp. 477-480.)

The fishes of Florida Keys.
(Bull. U. S. Fish Com., iv, 1882 (1884), pp. 77-80.)

hd

BIBLIOGRAPHY OF: U. 8S. NATIONAL MUSEUM. 375

DAVID STARR JORDAN AND CHARLES H. GILBERT.

A review of the species of the genus Calamus.

(Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., vii, June 3, 1884, pp. 14-24.)
A series of specimens representing each of these species is in the United
States National Museum.

Descriptions of ten new species of fishes from Key West, Fla.

(Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., vii, June 3, 1884, pp. 24-32.)
Typical specimens are in the United States National Museum.

.

Note on Caranz ruber and Caranx Bartholomai.
(Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., vii, June 3, 1884, pp. 32-33.)
Note on Calamus proridens, a new species of Calamus.
(Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., vii, July 8, 1884, p. 150.)
Description of Sciena sciera, a new species of Sciena from Mazatlan and

Panama.
(Proc. U. 8. Nat. Mus., vii, Sept. 27, 1884, pp. 480-482.)

DAVID STARR JORDAN AND SETH E. MEEK.

List of fishes observed in the Saint John’s River, at Jacksonville, Fla.
(Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., vii, Aug. 5, 1884, pp. 235-237.)
Description of four new species of Cyprinide in the United States Na-
‘ tional Museum.
(Proc. U. 8. Nat. Mus., vii, Sept. 27, 1884, pp. 474-477.)
~ Description of Zygonectes zonifer, a new species of Zygonectes, from Nash-
ville, Ga. re:
(Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., vii, Sept. 27, 1884, p. 482.)

DAVID STARR JORDAN AND JOSEPH SWAIN.

Descriptions of Scaroid fishes from Havana and Key West, including
five new species.

(Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., vii, July 1, 1884, pp. 81-102.)

Notes on fishes collected by David S. Jordan at Cedar Keys, Fla.
(Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., vii, Aug. 5, 1884, pp. 230-234. )

A review of the American species of marine Mugilide.

(Proc. U. 8. Nat. Mus., vii, Aug. 22, 1884, pp. 261-275.)

A review of the species of the genus Hamulon.
(Proc. U. 8. Nat. Mus., vii, Aug. 28, 1884, pp. 281-317.)

A review of the American species of Hpinephelus and related genera.
(Proc. U. 8S. Nat. Mus., vii, Sept. 17, 1884, pp. 358-410.)

A review of the species of Lutjanine and Hoplopagrine found in Ameri-

can waters.
(Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., vii, Sept. 19, 1884, pp. 427-474.)
376 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884.

JOHN HENRY LEFROY, :
Atheneum Club, London. by

The Botany of Bermuda. By General Sir John Henry Lefroy, F. BR. 8.,
Atheneum Club, London. From Bulletin No. 25, U.S. National
Museum. Washington: Government Printing Office. 1884. 8vo.
pp. 33-141.

MEEK, SETH E.

[See under David STarRR JORDAN and SETH EK. MEEK, and under JOSEPH
Swan and SetH E. MEEK. }

CLINTON HART MERRIAM,
Locust Grove, N. Y.

On a bird new to the Bermudas, with notes upon several species of
rare or accidental occurrence in these islands. By Clinton Hart
Merriam, M. D. From Bulletin No. 25, U. S. National Museum.
Washington: Government Printing Office. 1884. 8vo.. pp. 281-

284,
; EDWARD W. NELSON.

On the source of the jadeite implements of the Alaskan Innuits.

(Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., vi, 1884, pp. 426-427.)
Extract from a letter to Professor Spencer F. Baird.

Brief diagnoses of two new races of North American birds.

(The Auk, new series, i (No. 2, April, 1884), pp. 165-166.)
Picoides tridactylus alascensis and Astur atricapillus henshawi; the types of
which are in the U. S. National Museum collection.

The breeding habits of the pectoral sandpiper (Actodromas maculata).

(The Auk, new series, i (No. 3, July, 1884), pp. 218-221.)
A very interesting account of the habits of the species named, based upon
observations made in Alaska, while in the service of the U. S. National Museum.

A new geographical race of the mountain sheep (Ovis montana, Dalli,
var. nov.) from Alaska.

(Proce. U.S. Nat. Mus., vii, June 3, 1384, pp. 12-13.)

Describes a white race of the mountain sheep found in the mountains of
Alaska. ;

CHARLES C. NUTTING. *
On a collection of birds from Nicaragua. [Edited by R. Bidgway.|

(Proc. U.S. Nat. Mus., vi, 1883 (1884), pp. 372 -410.)

These signatures run from December 29, 1883, to April 11, 1884.

I.—San Juan del Sur, 70 species.
KMi.—Sucuya, 88 species.
IlI.—The island of Ometépe.
IV.—Los Sabalos, 80 species. —

The new species, with one exception, are all from Los Sébalos, and are as
follows: (1) Geothlypis bairdi, Nutting; (2) Oryzoborus salvini, Ridgw.; (3)
O. nuttingi, Ridgw.; (4) Contopus depressirostris, Ridgw-; (5) Cymbilamus line-
atus fasciatus, Ridgw.; (6) Grallaria intermedia, Ridgw. (from Costa Rica); —
(7) Porzana leucogastra, Ridgw. The technical matter in this paper, includ-
ing nomenclature, is by the editor.

: BIBLIOGRAPHY OF U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM. Ek at

TEMPLE PRIME,
New York, N. Y.

. Description of a new species of Spherium.
(Proce. U.S. Nat. Mus., vii, July 7, 1884, pp. 102-103. )

SAVILE G. REID,
Royal Engineers, London.

The birds of Bermuda. By Captain Savile G. Reid, I. Z.8., of the
Royal Engineers, member of the British Ornithologists’ Union, We.
From Bulletin No. 25, U.S. National Museum. Washington: Gov-
ernment Printing Office. 1884. 8vo. pp. 163-279.

WILLIAM NORTH RICE,
Professor of Natural History, Wesleyan University, Middletown, Conn.

The geology of Bermuda. By William North Rice, Ph. D., Orange Judd,
professor of geology and natural history in Wesleyan University.
From Bulletin No. 25, U.S. National Museum. Washington: Gov-
ernment Printing Office. 1884. Svo. pp. 1+32.

Jo Le ROPHROCGK,
° Professor of Botany, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, Pa.

List of, and notes upon, the lichens collected by Dr. T. H. Bean in

Alaska and the adjacent region in 1880.
(Proc. U.S. Nat. Mus., vii, June 3, 1884, pp. 1-9.)

=. PHILIP LUTLEY SCLATER,
Secretary of the Zoological Society of London.
A review of the species of the family Icteride. (Part iii. Ageleine.)
(The Ibis, 5th series, ii (No. 5, January, 1884), pp. 1-27. Pl. i.)
A review of the species of the family Icteride. (Part iv. Aniscaline.)
(The Ibis, 5th series, ii (No. 6, April, 1884), pp. 149-167. PI. v.)
Remarks on two rare American Oscines.

(The Ibis, 5th series, ii (No.7, July, 1884), pp. 240-241. 1 plate.)

Idiopsar brachyurus, Cass., Acanthidops bairdi, Ridgw.; the types of both
and only known specimens belonging to the National Museum, and sent tu
Dr. Selater for examination.

R. BOWDLER SHARPE,
Senior Assistant, Zoological Department, British Museum (South Kensington), London.
A note on the genus Progne.
(The Auk, i, July, 1884, pp. 367-368. )
ROBERT WILSON SHUFELDT,
Captain, Medical Corps, U. S. Army.
Concerning some of the forms assumed by the patella in birds.
(Proc. U. 8. Nat. Mus., vii, Sept, 1, 1884, pp. 324-331. Seven figures. )

378 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884.

Observations upon a collection of insects made in the vicinity of New
Orleans, La., during the years 1882 and 1883.

(Proc. U.S. Nat. Mus., vii, Sept. 1, 1884, pp. 331-338. One figure.)

ELISHA SLADE,
Somerset, Mass.

On domesticated hybrid ducks (Anas boschas+ obscura).
(Prec. U. S. Nat. Mus., vii, June1l1, 1884, p. 66.)

SIDNEY I. SMITH,
Professor of Comparative Anatomy, Yale College, New Haven, Conn.

On some new or little known decapod crustacea, from recent Fish Com-
mission dredgings off the east coast of the United States.
(Proc. U. 8. Nat. Mus., vii, Sept. 27, 1884, pp. 493-511.)

Crustacea of the Albatross dredgings in 1883.

(Am. Journ. Sci. and Arts, xxviii (July 1884), pp. 53-56; Am. Mag. Nat. Hist.,
xiv (No. 81, Sept. 1884), pp. 179-183.)

“A brief review of the results of the study (by the author) of the higher
Crustacea” collected during the deep-sea explorations of the United States
Fish Commission in 1883, which included some of the most important dredgings
yet made. The explorations extended from off Cape Hatteras to the region
of George’s Bank. The author enumerates sixteen species of Crustacea with
_well developed eyes in normal position, from depths of 2,030 to 2,949 fathoms,

Report on the Decapod Crustacea of the Albatross dredgings off the
east coast of the United States in 1883.

(Rep. U. S. Comm. Fish and Fisheries, 1882 (1884), pp. 345-426, (1-82), plates
1-x.)

Also printed as author’s extra with same pagination, and with cover and
full title-page.

Sixty-seven species are described or mentioned, of which eighteen are new ;
three new genera are also described, and one new family defined, Glypho-
crangonide, p. 364. The descriptions, especially of new species, are very full,
giving complete measurements and data as to distribution. The plates are
photo-engravings from drawings by J. H. Emerton and the author.

The new genera described are as follows:

Page
FCRUBING 5 «center wi a lal-Bo <a Scale ws aieciwsceiejslets sos eeclanesnel cee 349
PGrapatpRes 2% sis5s 2 saie nice os sleet mae sacs sean eee eee 383
BOntWGCCtC8 5 3 wis nai Je Dow's Fes Cag BOC Eiea ee mtae aiataeines ie 391
Following are the new species described :
Ethusina abyssicota (pl. ii, figs.1,1@).---.. ..---. .--..---------05 349
Galacantha: Baardtt 2.2230 eae < Be wales a aeels See ease enews 356
Pentacheles none. 0: = cows eens nan ceamnaahe deka ee cee es 359
Pentacheles debiles.. ces cen occa cae e ee eee eee- = es eee 360
Pontophilus abyast . occu 2-2 oS Seas ce sb ameee ace de see emeetee 363
ACANTREPRYTE: CRIME vcicwisn: sa casets sone see eaeeeneR ese eee 376
Notostomus robustus) (plo vil, 11032) so. oe townie eens Sane eee 377
Pasiphe princeps (p). v, fig. 2) .----.-- RS She eee ee 381
Parapasiphe sulcatifrons (pl. iv, fig.4; pl. vi, figs. 1-7) ......-.-.-. 384

Parapasiphe cristata (pl.v, fig'3) 22. 0css-a0ceceniceaemeescees oe aanoS
Parapasiphe: compta ...--. .---+. senses socee vectvagumeesstomeee 389

ee a Ve ae

BIBLIOGRAPHY OF U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM. 379

' Page.
Benthesicymus ? carinatus (pl. x, figs. 6-7).........-..---.-------- 396
Benthesicymus ? sp. indet. (pl. x, figs. 3-5)............---.-------- 397
Amalopentns catens (pl 2 Ne. De on oan cocsncinn ne nese woes <bsae-- 402
MITES OUONE Cpls TX. TOR. SO) co 54 oe anes e nen ates wane cos 404
Hepomadus tener (pl. ix, figs. 7-8) ......---...--------2+---0 eee 409
Hymenopeneus micropa (pl. x, fig. 1) 2.25 22. .c-ceescenenencesa--- 413
OP GERTOT IROL ns Sete BS tne one cis. os oh vie saison: ae oe 419

JOSEPH SWAIN.

[See under Davip STARR JORDAN and JOSEPH SWAIN, |
JOSEPH.SWAIN AND SETH E. MEEK.

Notes on the pipe-fishes of Key West, Fla., with description of Sipho-
stoma McKayi, a new species.
(Proce. U.S. Nat. Mus., vii, Aug. 5, 1884, pp. 237-239.)

CYRUS THOMAS,
Ethnologist, Bureau of Ethnology.

Directions for mound exploration.

(Proc. U.S. Nat. Mus., vii, 1884, pp. 581-583. )
Also published as Museum Circular No. 28.

ADDISON E. VERRILL,
Professor of Zoology, Yale College, New Haven, Conn.

Notice of the remarkable marine fauna occupying the outer banks off
the southern coast of New England, Nos. 9 and 10; by A. E. Ver-
rill. Brief contributions to Zoology from the Museum of Yale
College, Nos. lv and lvi. .

(Am. Journ. Sci., xxviii(No. 165, Sept., 1884), pp. 213-220; (No. 167. Nov.
1884), pp. 378-384. )

The topics disenssed are as follows: Work of the steamer Albatross in 1883 ;
partial list of stations occupied by the Albatross in 1883; work of the steamer
Albatross in 1884; character of the deep-sea deposits. These two papers
give a general discussion of the results of the exploration of the Fish Com-
mission steamer Albatross off the eastern coast of the United States during
the two years mentioned, The following new species are described in foot-

notes :
HOLOTHURIOIDEA :
Page.
Benthodytes gigantea... 2.2. cc0s noon cece cess ee ec cee 216
TTUDRTOMAGEH “COTE 3 aon a = oem cee oe ttn a Wa cc aeaacuccewsas' 217
ASTEROIDEA.
pe Se ag ee Rs NOSE Oe Tea ot RE 217
Archaster WGN eee etagres = stedieee we sare ne Cake kde canes atueca.” S1G
SAR ONES LET PID OMLG es os 8 or oe EE Uc. Co wss< cacaec 383
ATC OSLEME ORME na oe EO oles ins Ae na Se ok Sues ess uve cost 383
Benthopecten spinosus (gen. et sp. NOV.)...-..---------------- 218
PI Oa DEERE, Fe i as ok Baa oooh cane eeeeep besb” | BOE
TEMG Re LU ONAE eae Ses Da Pe ook yc seca vohuasiwr cee 382

ICON ION III Soon sat nave us CAGE enacts wie tee cee whee 384
380 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884.

OPHIUROIDEA :
Page.
Astronyc tentUsvine so caca os eae ee bees enna nate etreneeen = 219
ANTHOZOA:
Ombetlute Botrdits cc 52 cc cctacctonntee steal eee aes eee es 219
Kophobelemnon lenné:22- oocce cess tune cecs + oan aoe eee eae 219
Soleropitium gractle\s-J525J-c3o- haem sees aoe eben pe Bea 219
Lepidogorgia gracilis (gen. et sp. NOV.) -...----.+---.-------- 220

Notice of the remarkable marine fauna occupying the outer banks off
the southern coast of New England, and of some additions to the
fauna of Vineyard Sound.

(Rep. U.S. Comm. Fish and Fisheries, 1882 (1884), pp. 641-669. )

A general account of the scientific investigations of the U. 8S. Fish Com-
mission during the summers of 1881 and 1882, with headquarters at Wood’s
Holl, Mass., abstracted from papers published in the American Journal of
Science, vols. xxii-xxiv, 1881 and 1882. Tables are given of the deep-water
dredging stations occupied by the steamer Fish Hawk. ‘The topics more
especially discussed are as follows: For 1881: Fishes, Mollusca; for 1882:
evidence of great destruction of life last winter; abundance of life; list of
deep-water Echinodermata taken by the Fish Hawk, 1880-1882; additions
to the fauna of Vineyard Sound; surface dredgings. Numerous species of
Mollusca and Annelids are redescribed from the American Journal of Science.
One new species of Ophiuran, Ophioscolex quadrispinus, Verrill, is described
on page 661, and one new Planarian, Stylochopsis zebra, Verrill, on page 666.

Physical characters of the portion of the Continental Border, beneath —
the Gulf Stream, explored by the Fish Hawk, 1880 to 1882.

(Rep. U.S.Comm. Fish and Fisheries, 1882 (1884), pp. 1045-1057, plates 1-5.)
After a general introduction, the following topics are discussed: Influence
of the Gulf Stream; nature and origin of thesediments; occurrence of fossil-
iferous magnesian limestone nodules; evidence of the existence of light at
great depths. The plates are as follows: 1. Southern coast of New England to
the Gulf Stream slope, showing lines of depths and positions of the principal
dredging stations of the U. S. Fish Commission. 2, To illustrate the rela-
‘tive slope or profile of the bottom, from the shore to the Gulf Stream slope,
and across portions of the slope in several lines. 3. Temperature curves at
the bottom and surface, and at 5, 10, and 20 fathoms, and extending from the
shore to near the 800-fathom line on the Gulf Stream slope. 4. Temperature
curves at the surface and bottom, and at the intermediate depths of 5, 10,
20, 30, and 50 fathoms, arranged according to the distance in miles from ihe
shore. 5. Temperature curves at the bottom and surface, and at intermedi-
ate depths of 5, 10, 20, 30, 50, and 100 fathoms.

SAMUEL T. WALKER.
On the origin of the fossil bones discovered in the vicinity of Tise’s
Ford, Florida.

(Proc. U. 8. Nat. Mus., vi, 1884, pp. 427-429. )
Extract from a letter to Prof. Spencer F. Baird.

CHARLES W. WARD.

Notes on Ardea wardi, Ridgw.

(The Auk, i, April, 1884, pp. 161-163. )
With special reference to specimens in the National Museum cellection.

BIBLIOGRAPHY OF U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM. 381

HENRY E. WEBSTER,
Professor of Natural History, Rochester University, Rochester, N. Y.

The Annelida from Bermuda, collected by Mr. G. Brown Goode. By
) Henry E. Webster, professor of natural history in the University of
Rochester, Rochester, New York. ——. From Bulletin No. 25, U.
: S. National Museum. Washington: Government Printing Office.
1884. 8vo. pp. 305-327.

FRANCIS WINSLOW,
Lieutenant, U. 8. Navy.

Memorandum of the present condition and future needs of the ovster
industry. *
(Bull. U.S. Fish Com., iv, 1884, pp. 233-234.)

Notes upon oyster experiments in 1883.
(Bull. U.S. Fish Com., iv, 1884, pp. 354-356, )
fl eet ee all De ee

LIST OF ACCESSIONS TO THE U. 8, NATIONAL MUSEUM DURING
1884,
—

UA. 2 Ee IN: SE

LIST OF ACCESSIONS TO THE MUSEUM IN 1884.

Abbe, C. FE. 14671. Insect from Massachusetts.

Abbey Coal and Mining Company. 15361. Two boxes, specimens of
coal and its associates from Missouri.

Abbie, S. G. 14339. Skeletons of foxes, mink, and porcupine from
Maine. pee

Abbott, H. Ll. 14583. Package of specimens of fulgurites from Illinois.

Academy Natural Sciences, Philadelphia, Pa. 14074, 14146, and 14283.
Alcoholic specimens of reptiles; package of alcoholic reptiles.
(Loan, returned.)

Ackerman, Ensign A. A., U. S. N. 14287 and 15042. Bones of whale
and bone implements, Indian arrow-heads and ehips from Disco
Island and Greenland.

Ackerman, F. 15191. Stone ax from Ohio. (Lent.)

Adams, J. B. 13914. Specimens of birds’ skins from New Mexico.

Adams, S. T. 14086. Specimen of mammal, shells, &c., from Dakota.

Adams, W. H. 14434 and 14824. Six boxes of specimens of sulphur
and copper ore from Louisa County, Virginia.

Agens, Alerander M. 14513. Piece of felt which covered the coffin of
the late Captain DeLong.

Aiken, Charles E. 14808. Birds’ skins from Colorado.

Aistrop, Z. T. 14273. Samples of minerals from California.

Ajax Metal Company. 15344. Specimens of the Ajax metals from the
works of the company. ;

Alderson, J. D. 14679. Specimen of ore from West Virginia.

Alewander, W. D. 14291. Specimen of barking sand from sand-hills
of Maua Kanai.

Alford, I. S. 15424. Specimen of graphite from Franklin County,
North Carolina.

Allen, FP. 8S. 14552 and 14569, Photograph and model of an improved
life boat and car from Cuttyhunk, Mass.

Allen, J. Lb. 14695. Specimen of insect from Indian River, Florida.

Allien, Mr. . 15173. Charm made from skull of marten, mounted
in silver, from Russia.

Allis, H. W. 14688. Wooden model of stone implement, Michigan.

S. Mis. 33, pt. 2——25 385
386 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884.

Allison, J. D. (through Judge L. C. Johnson). 14570. Box of alcoholic
fishes from Alabama.

Alward, G. L. (Grimsby, England). 14514. Two pictures of fishing |
vessels used by English fishermen.

American Institute of Mining Engineers. 14081, 14116, 14233, 14243, and

14407. Fifteen boxes of iron and steel; 6 boxes of rock specimens, and —
geological maps from Sweden; 3 boxes, collection of salts, &c, from
Germany, and 18 boxes of models of blast furnaces, &e.

Amend, B. G. 15079. Two specimens of minerals. -

American Ship Windlass Company. 14636. Two boxes containing models —
of steam windlasses from Rhode Island.

Andrews, George S. 15141. Specimen of garnet in granite from Con- —
necticut.

Andrews, Joseph D. 14382. Specimens of ore from Arizona.

Andrews, R. H. 14735. Two specimens of turtle eggs from Maryland. —

Andrews, W. H. 14740 and 14795. Collection of minerals and Indian ~

* yelies from various localities in New York.

Ansonia Brass and Copper Company. 14344, 14863, and 15133. Barrel, —
keg, and two boxes of brass and copper specimens.

Archer, B. V. 13924, Specimen of large leather-back turtle from Key —
West, Fla.

Arlington Mills. 15125. Specimens illustrating the manufacture of —
worsted and cotton yarns. .

Army Medical Museum. 14053, 14076, and 14810. Collection of stone —
relics, foods, fossils, gold, silver and copper ores, alcoholic fishes,
models of Eskimo boats, fragments of pottery, &c., from various
localities, and four specimens of deformed crania. (Lent.)

Arnheim, J. 8. 14186. Specimens of reptiles from California. :

Ashburner, 0. A. 15248, 15294, and 15333. Model of the Panther Creek
Authracite Coal Basin and maps. (Purchased for N. O. Exposition.)

Atkins, Charles G. 14011 and 14398, Three cases containing a series
of embryo salmon in alcohol, glycerine, and*water from Grand Lake
Stream and Orland, Me., also bundle of poles and net.

Atkinson, Edward. -15179. Specimens of cotton and silk fabrics from
China and Japan. .

Atkinson and Filmore. 15292. Boat model. (Lent.)

Atwater, W. O. 15454. Collection of foods.

Aymé, Louis H. 15230. Three boxes, one barrel and bundle ethno-
graphic specimens from Mexico.

Babitt, E.G F. 14050. Samples of water from artesian wells 2,120 feet
deep for report.

Babcock, General O. H., U. 8. A. 14060, 14067, 14317, and 14380. Speci-—
mens of pottery, bones, charcoal, and shells from shell mound on
north bank of Halifax River, also birds and bat from Florida, and
two bottles of water from Maryland.

Babcock, Mrs. O. FE. 14617. Box fragments of pottery found near
Mosquito Inlet, Florida.

LIST OF ACCESSIONS TO THE MUSEUM IN 1884. 387

Babcock, 8.2. 14413. Specimens of stone implements from South Car-
olina. (Loan.)

Bailey, E. M. 15167. Specimens of minerals from Maine.

Bailey & Co., John T. 14675. Samples of cordage.

Bailey, Robert T. (through W. J. Btzell.) 14625. Specimen of tungi
from South Carolina.

bailey, W. H. 14633. Alcoholic specimens of fish from off Cape Fear,
North Carolina.

Bailly, Jules. 15355. Specimens of mounted frogs.

Baird, Miss Iuey. 14197 and 14335. Alcoholic specimens of earth-
worm, and collection of minerals.

Baird, Prof. S. F. 14614 and 15479. Box, specimens of fish from
Wood’s Holl, Mass., and quahog pearl.

Baird, Mrs. Spencer F. 14447. An old-fashioned English ‘“coftee big-
gin.”

Baker, A. B. 15035. Two boxes of nammal skins from Kansas.

Balbach & Son, E. 15203. Four boxes gold, silver, copper, lead, &e.

Baldwin Locomotive Works. 14705. Four photographs of mine locomo-
tives.

Ballew, W. W. 14661. Specimens of rocks from Arkansas.

Barber Flax Spinning Company. 14745. Specimens of Dutch, Cana.
dian, Irish, French, and Flemish flax.

Barclay Coal Company. 14760. Box specimens of bituminous coal and
its associates from Long Valley mine, Pennsylvania. (Collected by
James Temple Brown.)

Barker, A. 8., U. 8. N., commanding U. 8. 8. Enterprise. 14805 and
14865. Specimens of ocean bottom obtained during cruise from
United States to Asiatic station, via Cape of Good Hope; also, box
of photograph negatives.

Barker, Charles D. 14170. Specimen of totes from Florida.

Barnard, Edith 8S. 14328. Specimen of alligator in flesh.

Barnum, Bailey & Hutchinson. 14360, 14363, 14401, 14541, 14594, 14613,
14709, 14894, 15193, 15221, 15393, 15485, and 15510. Ten specimens
of monkeys, one baboon, one eland, one harnessed antelope, three
leopards, and one peccary, all in flesh.

Barnum, P. T. 15457. Plaster bust of Phineas T. Barnum.

Barringer, W.D. 14970. Specimen of fossil from Texas,

Barroll, Henry H., Lieut., U. S.N. 14829. Aleoholie specimen of crab
from Lamock Island, China.

Barrows, W. B. 14939. Specimens of turtles from Connecticut.

Barton & Logan. 14507. Young specimen of monkey in flesh.

Bartlett, Com@r John R., U. S. N. 14027, 14554, and 15459. Two bot-
tles of alcoholic specimens of marine invertebrates, &c., picked up at
sea; specimens of pumice from Straits of Sunda and voleanie dust
from Krakatoa.
388 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884.

Batchen, John 8. F. 13952, 14007, 14128, 14144, 14164, 14191, 14353,
14549, 14752, 15023, 15166, 15215, and 15272. Large collection of
building and ornamental stones, ores, rock specimens, German litho-
graphic stone, &c., Hlinois, Arizona, New Mexico, Missouri,.Texas,
Kansas, Florida, Colorado, Michigan, and line of Mexiean Central
Railroad.

Baeder, Adumson & Co. 14858 and 15119. Collection of materials illus.
trating the manufacture of sand paper and emery cloth and specimens
of minerals.

Bean, Dr. T. H. 14075, 14350, 15031, and 15039, Eight boxes alcoholic
specimens of fishes and invertebrates and pigeon-hawk from Long
Island, New York; specimen of barred owl shot in the Smithsonian
grounds, and eight fresh specimens of fishes from Washington market.

Beurden, 0. C. 14065. Specimens of insect from Texas.

Beardsley, Mrs. A. J. 15052. Specimens of minerals from Missouri.

Beatty, Joseph H. 14751, 15020, and 15036. Three packages of birds’
skins from various localities.

Beatty, T. W. 14782. Specimen of Indian pottery from South Carolina.
(Loaned.)

Beauchamp, W. M. 14175. Specimens of crania, shells, concretions,
&e., from New York.

Beck, Hon. James B, 13909, Four specimens of ducks in flesh from
Potomae River.

Belding, L. 13960, 14176, 14185, 14318, 14488, and 15216. Six packages »
of dried and alcoholic birds’ skins from California.

Bell, James. 14100, 14533, and 14575. Specimens of living snakes,
frogs. and two skins of Florida screech owl.

Bell Smelting Company. 15532. Specimens of copper ores and products
from Butte, Mont. :

Bell, W. M. 14515. Specimen of fresh fish from Delaware.

Bendire, Capt. Charles, U. 8S. A. 13916, 14256, and 14532. _ Four boxes
of birds’ skins; tank of alcoholic fishes, reptiles, insects, &c., from
vicinity of Fort Klamath, Oreg.; also, large collection of birds’
nests and eggs from Western North America, New York, and Europe.

Béné R. T. 15445. Exhibit of ostrich feathers, showing process of
manufacture.

Benjamin, Cyrus M. 14177. Two specimens of ores from Connecticut.

Benner, D. J. 15016. Specimen of grass coat from Popoyan, United
States of Colombia.

Berendt, Dr. G. (Berlin, Germany). 14157. Specimen of sand (‘To-
nendor).

Bergens Museum (Bergen, Norway). 14499, Box ot birds’ skins and
invertebrates from Norway. i
3erlin Museum (through Prof. A. Bastian). 14681. Cast of Buddiia’s
foot-print, from Buddhafaya, the most venerated spot of the Budd-

hists.

Terr gee

|
|

LIST OF ACCESSIONS TO THE MUSEUM IN 1884. 389

Bernheisel, 8S. 14676. Specimens of minerals from Pennsylvania.

Berrini, Dr. Josie Carlos. 15491. Specimens of vegetable fibers ex-
tracted from plants of Brazil.

Bertha Zine Company. 15245. Specimens of zine ores from Virginia.

Bessel, Gebruder. 14356. Two cases and five casks of graphite cruci-
bles and large piece of graphite from Dresden.

Bianchi & Co., F. 15396. Samples of feathers used in the millinery
business.

Bicknell, Eugene P. 14084. Two specimens of birds’ skins from River-
dale, N. Y.

Bigelow Carpet Company. 15084. Samples of wools and carpets.

Bishop, J. N. 14565. Insect from Connecticnt.

Bissel, John G. 14180. Sample of dust from surtace of 5 feet of snow
which fell February 29, 1884.

Bissel, John H. 15081. Specimen of fresh fish from Detroit, Mich,

Blackford, Eugene G. 14059, 14151, 14217, 14288, 14311, 14395, 14406,
14418, 14455, 14480, 14717, 14762, 14815, 14864, 14918, 14930, 14935,
15006, 15060, 15091, 15155, 15332, and 15445. Large collection of fresh
fishes, including salmon, from Atlantic and Pacific coasts, halibut
weighing 430 pounds, pompana, weight 36 pounds, black and sea
bass, green and logger-head turtles, crabs, &c., from New York mar-
ket, Canada, Newfoundland, England, West Indies, and Gulf of
Mexico.

Blackman, W. S. 14626. Specimen of ore from Indiana.

Blackman, Z. 14556. Package of clay from Louisiana.

Blackiston, Capt. T. W. (London, England). 14165. Collection of
nearly 500 Japanese birds’ skins.

Blake, W. P. 14517. Sample of wool from mountain goat.

Blockman, L. A. 15434. Specimen of shells, &c., from San Diego, Cal.

Bloomfield, Loyd M. 14468. Specimen of birds’ nests and eggs from
Ohio.
Blossburg Coal Company. 15033. Box of fire-clay, slate, bones, fossils,
mining tools, &c., from Pennsylvania. |
Boardman, George A. 14248 and 14257. Two specimens of birds’ skins.
from Florida; also 6 eggs of the limpkin.

Bolles, Lieut. T. Dix, U. S. N. 15153. Two boxes of minerals, and
ethnology from Alaska.

Bonaparte, Du Prince Rowland (St. Cloud, France). 13991 and 14883.
Two collections of photographs of Kalmouks.

Bond, Frank U. 15416. Alcoholic specimens of craytishes trom Wy-
oming.

Bonelli, George. 14279. Specimen of mineral from Utah.

Booth, A. 14296. Specimens of fresh fish (Clupea sapidissima and
Oncorhynchus nerka) from Columbia River.

Booton, J. K. 14508. Specimens from Luray, Va.
390 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884.

Bowker, Torrey & Co. 15024. Specimens of African onyx and _ brec-
cia (red).

Bowron, William M. 15083. Box of fossils and shells from Tennessee.

Boyce, Mrs. 14951. Box specimens of shells from California.

Boyd, James. 14527. Specimens of asbestos from Canada.

Boyle, John T. (sculptor). 14066. Original model of the statue of In-
dian chief in Lincoln Park at Chicago, Il. .

Boyton, Paul. 15522. Specimens of old gold and’® silver ornaments
from Ancon. (Purchased.)

Brackin, A. H. 14840. Specimens of minerals from North Carolina.

Bradfute, W. R. 15290. Specimens of rocks from Nevada.

Bradstreet, B.C. 15432. Specimen of ore from Colorado.

Brady, Prof. G. S. 14167 and 14181. Collection of free-swimming
copepods from England and building stones from New York.

Brakeley, John H. 14476. Bottle of alcoholic fishes from New Jersey.

Brandenberger, Wiliam. 14572 and 14730. Package of ores from Cali-
fornia.

Brazil, Government of. 14366. Large collection of foods, mats, hats,
shoes, fans, aprons, pipe-stems, nuts, baskets; also samples of rain
cloak and cape, made of straw leaves for making hats ; brooms, pipe-
bowls, tooth-picks, scrubbers, dippers, model of Brazilian boat, &c.

Brenner, D. W. 14563. Package of copper ore from Loudoun County,
Virginia.

Bretz, George N. 14855 and 14907. Box of negatives of outside and
inside views of coal mine of Shenandoah district, Pennsylvania.
(Purchase, New Orleans Exhibition.) Also photograph of coal-
breakers.

Brewster, William. 15478. Box of birds’ skins.

Bridges, R. W. 14446 and 14816. Specimens of minerals from Maryland.

Brighthope Railway Company. 15233. Specimens of coal from Virginia.

Briscoe, S. B. 14849 and 14875. Miners’ tools, pick, and 3 drills.
(Purchase, New Orleans Exhibition.) Also miner’s old outfit, coat,
boots, &ce.

British Museum (London, England). 14124, 14158, 14610, and 15400.
Large collections of birds’ skins from India, Asia, Africa, and Aus-
tralia. Alcoholic specimens of bats, and catalogues of the museum. .

Broadhead, G. C. 15256. Three specimens of fossils from Missouri.

Brock, James A. 14391. Specimen of Indian pottery from Florida.

Brodie, David. 14953. Specimens of Carboniferous fossils from Con-
necticut.

Brookins, Dr. A. B. 14600. Specimens of insects from Florida.

Brooklyn Mine. 15238. Specimens of ores from Utah.

Brown, Charles F. 15037. Minerals from Arkansas. (Purchase, New
Orleans Exhibition.)

Brown, HE. L. 14182. Box of stone relics and 5 moss agates from
Wisconsin.

.

)

+ ME es oe Dae ee

Tt

<> aoe 1) vr See
ae ee a

v

eS ees ad A

LIST: OF ACCESSIONS TO THE MUSEUM IN 1884. 391

Brown, George T. 15069. Specimens of insects from South Carolina.

Brown, G. W. 14498. Specimen of stone relic from West Virginia.
(Purchase.)

Brown, James Temple. 14845, 14847, 14857, 14949, 14956, 14979, and
15378. Specimens of coal, iron ores, lepidodendron, slate, and fossils.
Three specimens of iron bolts reduced by action of mine water, and
two photographs of fans for ventilating coal mines from Pennsylva-
nia, Virginia, and New York.

Brown, John P. 13901 and 13992. Specimen of calcareous tufa and
skin of owl from Washington Territory.

Brown, Walter W. 14069. Photograph copy of the Declaration of
Independence of the United States.

Buchsbaum, H. 13954. Specimen, in the flesh, of Mexican hairless dog.

Buck, Stuart M. 14592. Specimens of coal from West Virginia.

Buffum, Allie J. 14201. Specimens of rocks from Wisconsin.

Burchard, Horatio C. 14937. Box containing two copies in bronze of
all medals issued by the United States Government.

Burch and Moore. 14529. Fresh specimen of fish from Potomac River.

Bureau of Ethnology. 13948, 13987, 14009, and 14255. Large collection
of pottery, stone relics, human skulls, bones, from mounds of United
States; also 362 archeological specimens collected during the fiscal
year ending June 30, 1883.

Bureau of Navigation, U.S.N. 14459. 168 specimens of bottom sound-
ings from the cruise of the steamer Albatross during winter of 1584,
in Gulf of Mexico and West Indies.

Burhans, C. S. 15326. Specimens of minerals from New York.

Burlington Manufacturing Company. 14768. Specimen of ophiolite
from Port Henry, N. Y.

Burns, Frank. 13920. Specimen of mound pottery from Alabama.

Bush, Mrs. A. E. 14427 and 14431. Specimen of crustacea and shells
from San Pedro, Cal.

Bush, William R. 14268. Specimen of rock from Florida.

Butler, Col. A. P. 14503. Specimen of Indian burial urn from South
Carolina.

Byrnes, W. B. 15231. Drawing of the bark Saratoga entering and
leaving the port of Palermo.

Cable Flax Mills (HE. A. Hartshorn, president). 14720. Specimens of
flax twine, &c.

Caldwell, John W. 14041. Specimen of silver medal, loaned for copy.

Call, R. Ellsworth. 13905, 14143, 14561, 14683, 14691, 14870, 14902, and
15260. Specimens of shells, fresh specimen of bat, alcoholic reptiles,
crustaceans, and 175 specimens of Limax maximus, from Potomac
River, California, lowa, and District of Columbia; also leeches and
mollusca from Utah and Nevada.

Call, Mrs. R. H. 15027. Alcoholic specimen of rattlesnake and spider
from Llinois.
392 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884. a

Callender, Mr. (London, England). 13990. Sample of bituminous insu-
lation of wire. ;

Cameron, J. P. 14618. Specimen of ore from Texas.

Camp, Mrs. Norman W. 15076. Wax portraits of antique manufact-
ure. (Deposited.)

Canfield, Dr. C. A. 14516. Sample of down of young Cathartes cali-
Sorniensis.

Cannon, Dr.G. 15320. Specimens of minerals from Northern New York.

Cargill, Samuel G. 14980. Three photographic views of the Lowmoor
Tron Company’s works.

Carlton, Miss Hattie. 15537. Small collection of arrow-points, shells,
minerals, &c., from Arizona.

Carlton, J. H. 14384. Two boxes of stone implements from Arizona,

Carmack, @. L. M. 15107 and 15475. Specimens of ores and minerals
from Washington Territory.

Carnegie Bros. & Co. 15342. Sample of coke from Pennsylvania.

Carry, Miss O. 15425. Specimen of pen and utensils, contract dated
1722, and almanac of 1780.

Carter, C. P. 14893. Five models of boats from Maine.

Carter & Tucker. 15305. Specimen of graphite from Heron mine, North
Carolina.

Catlin, J. OC. 13937. Specimen of red squirrel’s nest from Ohio.

Catton, John F. 13925. Specimens of mound relics and bird’s nest
from North Carolina.

Cave Mine. 15500. Specimens of ores from Utah.

Cedar Grove Mining Company. 15217. Specimen of coal from West
Virginia.

Central Mine Company. 14959. Two boxes and two large pieces of
copper ore and associates from Michigan. )

Chadwick & Co. 15172. Specimen of candle made from bees- wax from
Spain. (Purchased.)

Chamberlain, C. W. 15428. Specimens of birds’ skins.

Chapin, W. C. 15406. Specimen of niter from White Plains, Nev.

Chapman, W. A. 15413. Specimens of fossils from Arkansas.

Chase, Lieut. George F., U.S. A. 14544. Two living specimens of Gila
monster (Heloderma suspectum) from Arizona. -

Chatard, Dr. F. £. 14031. Specimens of minerals from Maryland.

Chatard, T. N. 14785, 15074, 15222, 15268, and 15338. Specimens of
minerals, gold ore, dunite, and garnetite from North Carolina and
Georgia.

Chateaugay Ore and Iron Company. 14775 and 14784. Specimens of
iron ores and products.

Chester, Capt. H. C. 14329 and 15270. Four water-color sketches of
vessels and sample of folding anchor.

Chickering, Prof. J. W. 14148. Two abnormal feet of pig (Sus scrofa).

LIST OF ACCESSIONS TO THE MUSEUM IN 18384. 393

Christy & Co., Thomas. 14448, 14449, 14641, 14741, 14754, and 14799.
Samples of Rhea seed; also specimens of seed of Cannabis sativa
which yields bang or hemp, and is largely grown in Persia; specimen
of thiolyte and mineral substance from England; also living seeds
and oil of crab nuts from West Indies.

City Rock Mines. 15192. ‘Two boxes specimens of’ ores from Utah.

Clark, A. Howard. 15015, 15049, and 15065. Specimens of stone kil-
licks; specimen of toggle iron used in capturing swordfishes; mack-
erel reamer (old style); swordfish iron, fisherman’s serubbing-board,
and os penis of seal from Massachusetts and Iceland.

Clarke, Prof. F. W. 14801, 14764, 14832, and 15017. Specimen of irid-
osmine, minerals, gems, and cassiterite, from Maine, California, France,
Norway, and Peru; also specimen of hair ball from stomach of Texas
steer.

Clarke, M. C. 14896. Two living specimens of fish from Red River,
Tennessee.

Clark, W. M. 14019. Specimens of stone relies, pottery, and skull
from mounds in Tennessee.

Clayton, Prof. J. 2. 15130 and 15161. Specimens of ores and min-
erals from Utah.

Clemens, George S. 14842. Box of anthracite coal carvings from Penn-
sylvania. (Purchase, New Orleans Exhibition).

Clements, Hon. J. C. 14235. Specimen of rock from Georgia.

Cleveland, Mrs. M. (Paris, France). 13970 and 14904. Case containing
Sicilian harness.

Coale, H. K. 13927, 14261, 14701, 14886, 15029, 15154, and 15357. Large
collection of birds’ skins from United States, Europe, and India.

Cochran, A. B. 14873. Section of wall used to extinguish fire in
Kehley’s Run colliery, Pennsylvania, and chart of anthracite coal

-tields,

Coffin, C. BE. 14560 and 15143. Samples of pine and oak wood char-
coal and pig-iron borings from Maryland.

Cole, John. 13955, 14118, and 14537. Specimens of minerals and ores
from Virginia.

Collector of Customs, San Francisco, Cal. 14270. Specimen of iguana,
dried and eviscerated.

Coleman, Edward ©. 14510. Sample of earth from Wisconsin for re-
port.

Coleman, W. W. 15146. Bottle alcoholic specimen of squid from Chesa-
peake Bay.

Collins, A. J. 14381. Specimen of ore from Tennessee.

Collins, Joseph W. 14095, 14954, 14961, 15108, and 15132. German-
silver seine-mending needle, collection of boat models from Massa-
chusetts; also skull and antlers of deer from Holsteinberg, Greenland.
(Purchased.)

Collins, W. H. 15509. Specimen of rabbit in flesh.
394 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884.

Colman, Benjamin. 15054. Specimens of minerals from Missouri.

Colorado Silver Mining Company. 15497 and 15531. Specimens of gold, —
silver, and copper ores, and products from Colorado.

Conant, Ambrose. 14184. Samples of minerals from Ohio.

Conglomerate Mining Company. 14927. Four boxes specimens of copper
ores and associates from Delaware, Mich.

Conklin, W. A. (Superintendent Central Park Menagerie, New York). 14173,
14190, 14250, 14343, 14372, 14419, 14453, 14793, 14915, 14992, 15139,
15157, 15197, 15202, 15263, and 15456. Six specimens of monkeys,
baboon, python, giant kangaroo, domestic Chinese fowl, hair-footed
jerboa, white crane, condor, civet cat, fruit-eating bat, fawn, and
2 specimens of lemur, all in flesh.

Connor, J. C. 14649. Specimens of minerals from Alabama.

Consolidated Bobtail Mining Company. 15410 and 15411. Specimens —
of retorted gold and gold amalgam (purchased); also specimens of
gold ore (presented).

Cook, J. W. 14211. Skin of Grus americana from Dakota.

Cope, Prof. HE. D. 14068. Specimen of Cacatuwa eos, in flesh, from Aus-
tralia.

Corcoran Art Gallery. 15455. Fine collection of Japanese musical
instruments.

Cory, Charles B. 13907, 14394, and 14421. Collection of birds’ skins
from Pacific Ocean between San Francisco and Sandwich Islands,
and San Domingo, West Indies.

Coryton, E. (London, England). 14403. Seven specimens of ancient
copper coins.

Coues, Dr. Elliott, U. S.A. 15521. Specimen of squirrel from Arizona.

Cowan & Bliss. 15096 and 15097. Five boxes of zine ores, &c., from
Missouri.

Cowles, Archie A. 15394. Specimen of bird’s egg from Minnesota.

Cowles, J. P. 14093. Three Chinese sandals and square of brick tea.

Cox, L. A. 14070. Thirteen plaster casts of crinoids of the Keokuk —
beds, Lowa.

Cragin, F. W. 14942. Mounted specimen of bat, from Manhattan,
Kans.

Craven, Dr. John J. 15134. Specimen of fresh fish from Great South —
Bay, Long Island.

Crawford, Dr. M. H., U. 8S. N. 15004. Package of shells, &c., from
west Terra del Fuego, near Straits of Magellan, Patagonia.

Crawford, S. M. 14223. Box of fresh specimens of trout from Chris-
tine Lake, New Hampshire.

Crescent Coal Mines. 14997. Samples of coal and its associates from
West Virginia.

Crockett, M. D. 14846. Slice of the Robertson County, Tennessee,
meteorite.

Cromley, M. 2. 14780. Specimens of insects from Colorado.

LIST OF ACCESSIONS TO THE MUSEUM IN 1884. 395

Crosby, W. O. 14941. Rock specimens from Massachusetts.

Crosse & Blackwell (London, England). 14559. Seventy-nine samples of

food from England.

Cross, John. 14374. Specimens of fossil bone from Florida.

Crown Point Iron Company. 14885. Specimens of iron ores, pig iron,
&e., from New York.

~ Crumb, Capt. C. H. 14933. Six specimens Ammodromus maritimus

from Cobb’s Island, Virginia.
Cushing, F. H. 15144. Serapi, breech-clout and coat.

Cushing, L. B. 15350. Three water-color sketches of boats.
— Dabney, Dr. C. W. 14833. Specimens of tin orefrom King’s Mountain,

|

:
d

:
it

“
2
~

Papas

North Carolina.
Paggett, R. M. 13904. Specimen of resonant or barking sands of Mana
Kauai.

a Dall, Rev. C. H. A. 15370. Samples of vegetable silk from India.

Danenhower, W. W. 14487. Suit of furs worn by Lieut. John W. Dan-
enhower, late navigator of the United States Arctic yacht Jeannette,
during his retreat through Siberia.

Daniels, Capt. John. 15528. Specimens of native silver and copper
from Osceola mine, Michigan.

Daniels, O. BE. 15280. Specimen of marine animal for name.

Davidson County, North Carolina. 15302, 15317, and 15421. Specimens
of gold, silver, copper, and lead ores from North Carolina.

Davis Company, The. 14707. Specimens of pyrite from Massachusetts.

Davis, Dr. Edwin Hamilton. 15188, One hundred and three molds of
stone implements from mounds in Mississippi Valley, and few show-
ing Mexican, Central, and South American art. (Purchased.):

Davis, G. H. 14945. Specimen of bird from Iowa.

_ Davis, Jacob. 14156. Specimens of birds, in flesh, from Massachusetts.
Davis, Oliver. 14722. Specimen of soft-shell turtle (Aspidonectes

spinifer) from Ohio.

: Deardorff, Isaac N. 14423. Carved stone head from Ohio. (Loan.)

De Coene, J. (Rouen, France). 14410. Box of charts and maps of the
river Seine. ,

De Johnge. 15174. Sample of glazed paper prepared with bone-black.

Delmege, Reid & Co. (Ceylon). 14114 and 14415. Collection of fibers,
cordage, coffee, vegetable and essential oils, and plumbago.

_ Dennison Manufacturing Company. 15463. Samples illustrating the
manufacture of sealing wax.

De Poincy, W.J. 14509 and 14505. Two packages of insects from

Florida.
Desloge Lead Company. 15529. Specimens of lead ores from Missouri.
Devereux, A. 14995. Specimen of rock from Texas.
Devoe & Co., F. W. 15265. Collections of paints, brushes, &c., of
animal peigin.
396 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884,

Dewey, F. P- 14738, 14940, 15131, and 15194. Specimens of ores and —
minerals from New Jersey, Colorado, and Utah, and 2 bottles of
iridosmine. (Purchased.) :

Dickie, James. 15437. Three photographs and diagrams, with descrip-
tion of the new aqua-aerial or wave ship.

Diller, J. 8. 15508. One hundred and fifty specimens of andesites —
from Mount Shasta, California. ,

Dimond, John. 15010. Specimen of California onyx.

Discover, Emanuel G. 14265. Specimen of rock from Wyoming.

Dobson, G. H. 14619. Alcoholic specimens of mammals, fishes, rep- —
tiles, &c., from England. q

Dodds, Pardon. 14195. Specimen of ozocerite.

Dodge, E. G. 15323. Specimens of minerals from Saint Lawrence —
County, New York. .

Doerflinger, Carl. 15374. Specimens of Potsdam fossils from Wis-
consin.

Dolphin Manufacturing Company. 14975. Samples of Napier matting
and hemp carpets from New York.

Donaldson, Thomas. 13985, 15201, 15345, 15384, and 15447. Speci-
men of turquoise from mine in Gonzales, Mexico; specimen of free
gold (purchased) ; box of feathers used in manufactures; 6 boxes of
gold quartz (Savage collection), and 15 large pieces of ores.

Donnell & Co.,J. T. 14101. Large coil (1,200 pounds), specimen of ship
cable.

Dore, Harry F. 15482. Specimens of land shells from Oregon.

Douglas, jr., J. 14504. Two specimens of coal from Arizona.

Dowell, B. F. 15135. Specimens fossils, minerals, shells, and fossil
plants from Oregon. .

Dowell, John. 14354. Mounted specimen of Porzana jamaicensis.

Dowuman, ReH. 14166 and 14295. Specimen of bird in flesh, and
worms, from Virginia.

Dresel, Ensign H. G., U. S.N. 15040. Specimen of pigeon-hawk from
Patchogue, L. I.

Drummond, A.J. 14103. Specimens of materials used for photograph-
ing on wood.

Duges, Prof. Alfred. Collection of fossil bones, birds’ skins, star-
fishes, shells, and specimen of peccary, from Mexico.

Duguo, Capt. John. 14965, 14985, and 15048. Two specimens of cup
sponges, specimen of coral and fish from fishing banks north of Ice-
land.

Duly, A. A. 15520. Specimen of fossil oyster from Potomac Creek.

Dunning, Philo. 14711. Alcoholic specimen of fish from Wisconsin.

Dutcher, William. 13902. Specimens of birds’ skins from Long Island. —

Dwight, jr., Jonathan. 14187. Specimens of birds’ skins. (Loan.}

Dyer, W. M. 14249. Specimen of iron pyrites from West Virginia.

Dyke, H. B. 14632. Specimen of ore from Iowa.

LIST OF ACCESSIONS TO THE MUSEUM IN 1884. 397

Bakin, John R. 14905. Specimens of skulls, fragments of same, fossils,
and stone implements, from near Washington, Ark.

Edson, J. B. 14646. Samples of zylonite (in sheet form).

Pdwards, Vinal N. 14017, 14568, 15162, and 15446. Specimens of
birds’ skins, duck fossils, eels, parasites from fish, 22 hottles of dredg-
ings, and specimen of variegated sea bass from Massachusetts.

Piliott, Henry W. 15405. Small collection of augite crystals from
Alaska.

Bly, J. H. 14196. Specimen of halotrichite trom Gila River, New
Mexico.

Emma Mine Company. 15183. Specimens of silver and lead ores from
the Emma mine, Utah.

Emmert, John W. 14292. Sample of ore from North Carolina.

Lmmons, G. F. 15346. Specimens of rocks from Colorado.

Prrico Brothers. 15148. Specimens of cameos, tortoise-shell, &c.

Ysberard, F. A. M. (through Foreign Exhibition, Boston, Mass.). 14598.
Cask containing 2 pieces of glazed and 101 pieces of unglazed pot-
tery from Brazil.

Psperanza Marble Company. 15136 and 15247. Specimens of building
stones and slabs of marble from New York.

Ewart, Prof. J. Cossar. 15169. Stocking made from bison hair, from
Canada.

Faiche, John R. 14660. Specimen of crab from Chesapeake Bay.

Fuirhurst, A. 14561. Box of Indian stone relics from Kentucky.

Fall Brook Coal Company. 14846 and 15003. Specimens of miner's
clothing, outfit, &c. (purchased), and two boxes of coal, &c.

Farmer, Louis and Maurice. 14117. Specimens of cottons, fibers, ma-
nila, crude and manufactured, &c., from Port au Prince, Hayti.

* Fayette Coal Company. 15274. Specimens of coal and slate from West

Virginia.

Ferguson, Maj. T. B. 13969 and 13996. Specimen of clay, and owl in
flesh, from South Carolina.

Ferry, Miss L. 14724. Specimens of beetles from Massachusetts.

Fetzer, G. W. 14512 and 14734. Specimens of minerals from Tennes-
see.

Fire Ureek Coal and Coke Company. 15362. Two boxes of coal and
coke from West Virginia.

First Japanese Manufacturing and Trading Company. 15190. Colleetion
of Japanese fancy goods.

Fisher, William J. 14024. Two boxes, 1 keg, ornithological, oological,
and ethnological specimens from Kodiak Island, Alaska.

Fisk, Eli C, 14952 and 15012. Specimens of insects from Illinois.

Fitzhugh, Nicholas. 14848 and 14876. Specimen of miner’s pick, show-
ing action of mine water, also specimens of coal, from Pennsylvania.

Fitzhugh, Rk. K. 15404. Specimen of epidote in quartz from Virginia.

Flint, Dr. J. M., U.S. N. 14430. Skull and bones.
398 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884.

Fogg & Son, W. 8S. 15234 and 15269. Collection of feather flowers and
ornaments, also samples for filling for mattresses, pillows, &c.
Fontaine, Professor. 15064. Specimens of rocks from Virginia.
Foote, A. EB. 14664, 14672, and 14860. Collection of minerals fram
England, Pennsylvania, and Kansas; 2 specimens of orthoclase and
7 of microline. (Purchase, New elents Exhibition.)
Ford, i B. 14967. Specimen of mineral from boiling spring, Arizona.
Ford, 8S. W. 15255. Two specimens of fossils from New York.
Foster, J. H. 15005. Specimen of discoidal stone trom South Caro-
lina.
Foster, N. A. & J. H. 14110. Specimen of minerals from North Caro.
lina.
Fougera & Co., BH. 13977. Collection of materia medica from New
York. |
Fowler, Dutton. 14437. Specimen of mineral from Nevada.
Fox, W. O. 13923 and.14341. Specimens of birds’ skins from Tennes-
see and New York.
Frank, A. (Stassfurth, Germany). 14405. Six boxes collection of salts
and dumy flue from Germany.
Franklin County. 15303 and 15318. Specimens of muscovite and as-
bestos from North Carolina.
French, Hon. H. F. 14586 and 14591. Specimen of dried interior of a
sea cucumber, and istle grass used in making baskets, brushes, &e.
Frick Coke Company, H. CO. 15187 and 15273. Box and barrel, speci-
mens of coal, coke, &¢., from Pennsylvania.
Fritzsche Brothers. 13936. Box containing specimens of drugs and
essential oils.
Frye aud De Graff. 15472. Specimens of zine ores from Missouri.
Fuller, O. P. 15322. Specimens of minerals from Jefferson County,
New York.
Fuller, William. 14214. Skeletons of raccoons, weasel, muskrats, and,
minks, from New York.
Furlong, John. 14506. Sample of silver ore from Colorado.
Gaddis, H. M. 14121. Specimen of arrow-head from Ohio. |
Galbraith, Frank G. 14624. Alcoholic specimens of fish from Penn-
sylvania.
Gale, Dennis. 14700. Seventeen specimens of birds’ skins from Colo-
rado.
Gallaher, Miss L. Bernie. 14320. Photograph of General Paez in uni-
form.
Gallagher, W. H. (through R. B. Mercer). 14647. Specimen of stone pipe
from Virginia, (Loan.)
Gannaway, W. R. 15164. Specimen of ore from Arkansas.
Gaumer, George F. 14928. Specimens of birds’ skins from Yucatan.
Gautier, C. P. 14520 and 14602. Specimens of clay and selenite fro
Louisiana,

LIST OF ACCESSIONS TO THE MUSEUM IN 1884, 399

Gazzam, J. P. 15066, 15209, 15210, and 15213. Specimens of silver,
lead, and zine ores, from Kansas and Missouri.

Gedney, A. G. 14547. Specimen of Bavarian lithographic limestone.

Geoghegan, N.O. 13956. Small specimens of native lithographic stones
from Clay and Overton Counties, Tennessee.

Gerhard, Frederick. 14307. Cast of the death-mask of General George
Washington. (Loan.)

Germania Smelting and Refining Company. 15182. Specimens of silver
and lead ores, bullion, &e., from Utah.

Gesner, G. W. 14245. Specimens of ores from New York.

Gesswein, F. W. 15535. Samples of leather, &c., showing uses.

Gherman, Theodore. 14983. Specimens of marcasite from Mine La
Motte, Mo.

Gibbons & Co., James, 14390, Living specimens of snapping turtle
from Cleveland, Ohio.

Gilbert, B. F. 15047. Specimen of snake from Brightwood, D.C.

Gilbert, Charles H. 14525 and 15056. Alcoholic fishes from Indiana
and Alabama.

Gill, Dr. T. N. 14400. Fourteen specimens of fresh fish (Boleosoma
olmstedi) from Potomac River.

Glendale Zine Works. 14888. Six boxes of zine exhibits from mines in
Missouri.

Godby, Thos. K. 14694. Alcoholic specimen of reptile from Florida.

Goetz, George W. 14048. Specimen of ore from Bear Gulch, Dakota.

Goff, jr., Hon. Nathan. 14205, 14605, and 15103. Specimens of rocks,
ores, and ininerals, from West Virginia.

Goldsborough, Henry H. 15448. Seventy-four samples of Australian
wool.

Goode, Francis @. 15946. Indian vase from small mound east side of
Saint John’s River, 7 miles below Jacksonville, Fla.

Goode, G. Brown, 14404, 14448, 15175, 15176, and 15276. Nine pairs of

wooden shoes, clogs, and gloves, from England and Belgium; speci-
men cf ornamented cup made from shell; two specimens of shoe-
horns, and collection of campaign medals, We.

Goodrich, J. King. 14178. Specimen of chalcovite and malachite in
quartz from North Carolina.

Goodwin, A. P. (through D. S. Spaulding). 14562. Box and package
containing collection of spears, bows, arrows, stone axes, stone clubs,
tomahawks, pair fine shields, &c., from New Guinea. (Purchased.)

Goodwin, B. P. 15375. Piece of keel of fishing schooner.

Gould, J. Loomis. 14757 and 14917. Bale and box, specimens of bows,
arrows, mats, canoe paddles, blanket, gambling sticks, seal spear,
hook, carved duck, canoe hat, club, skull, &c., from Alaska; also 3
specimens of silver bracelets made by the Hydah Indians. (Pur-
chased.)

Gouldsburg & Son, R. 14964. Specimen of marble from New York,
400 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884.

Government of Guatemala (through Foreign Exhibition, Boston, Mass.).
14138. Collection of materia medica, foods, stones, minerals, &c. _

Government of Hawaii (through Foreign Exhibition, Boston, Mass.). 14113
and 14126. Collection of foods, textile-fabrics, soils, materia medica,
cube of building stone, &c., from Hawaii.

Government of San Salvador (through Foreign Exhibition, Boston, Mass.).
14112 and 14373. Large collection of foods, tobacco, cigars, cotton,
wax, soap, candles, rope, palm-leaf mats, hats, &c.; also collection
of materia medica, and fifty specimens of gold, silver, and iron ores. —

Government of Venezuela (through Foreign Hxrhibition, Boston, Mass.).
14414. Large collection of foods, fibers, tobacco, seeds, drugs, oils,
minerals, ores, &e.

Granby Mining and Smelting Company. 15219, 15253, and 15287. Nine
boxes specimens of zine ores and spelter, from Missouri aud Kansas, —

Graupner, R. F. 14642. Specimens of slate from Kansas. }

Grebritzoki, Governor (of Bering Island). 15488. Three boxes of birds?
skins from Bering Island.

Green, F. C. 15512. Eighteen specimens of arrow-heads from Wis-
consin.

Greenwood, Walter J. 14168. Nine specimens of trout from Doublin,
Nai H.

Grifin, L. J. 15441. Slab of stalagmite marble from California.

Grifin, Miss M. EH. 14895. Specimens of mica from Amelia County,
Virginia.

Griffin, N. J. 15163. Two specimens of minerals from Texas.

Grigsby, C. S. 13919. Box of stone relics from Tennessee. (Pur-
chased.)

Grinnan, Daniel. 14635. Specimen of tooth of horse from Mississippi.

Grosjean, Henry. 14056. Samples of French paper money of the
period of the revolution.

Grittinger, Mr. (through H. S. Fleming). 14773. Specimens of iron ores,
pig iron, &c., from Pennsylvania. —

Gumbinger, J. 15334. Specimen of pipe made of bone from Florida.

Giinther, Dr. A. (British Museum). 14798. Two casts of heads of dol-
 phins.

Gunther's Sons, OC. G. 15120. Box ot mammal skins, and mounted —
group of deer and black wolf.

Hackenberg, Dr. G. P. 14794. Specimen of bulb from Texas.

Hains, Peter C., Major of Engineers, U.S. A. 14596. Specimen of rock
from Potomac River at Georgetown, D. C.

Hale, Dr. J. P. 15087 and 15102. 3 boxes of ‘“ Peerless” coal from
West Virginia.

Halifax County, North Carolina. 15316 and 15422. Specimen of marl
and block of granite form North Carolina.

Hall and Oo., Charles 2. 15009. Two specimens of Calitornia and one-
of Mexican onyx.

ia

LIST OF ACCESSIONS TO THE MUSEUM IN 12884. AOL

Hall, C.J. 14651. Specimen of building stone from Mount Desert, Me.

Hall, James. 14271. Box of fossils and plants. (Collected by Fré-
mont and Stansbury.)

Hall, L. R. 15329, Specimens of minerals from Jefferson County,
New York.

Halstead, Miss May. 14352. Specimens of barnacle, and mollusk from
Mississippi.

Halverson, Alexander. 15433. Specimens of ores from New Mexiéo.

Halverson, C. 15070. Specimen of galena, and lead ore from New
Mexico.

Hamilton, B. A. 15072. Specimen of mineral from Nevada.

Hamilton, B. H. 15267. Specimen of mineral from California.

Hammack & Co., A. 15170. Samples of shagreen from shark’s skin
imported from France. (Purchased.) ;

Hammontree, S. 14655. Specimen of fossil wood from Arkansas.

Hamy, Dr. E. (Trocadero Museum, Paris, France). 14193. Sample of
mold from Palenque, Mexico.

Handy, B. R. 14397. Specimen, branch from tree.

Hanifen & Co., John BE. 15124. Specimens of knit goods.

Hardy, Manly. 14077. Skeleton of red fox from Maine.

Harford, Prof. W. G. W. 15300. Specimens of sea lion’s bristles.

Harlow, Ensign C. H., U. 8S. N. 14778 and 14792. Alcoholic specimens
of cod and sculpin from Disco Bay, and skin of Eskimo dog from
the Greely Relief Expedition.

Harper, Jefferson. 14189. Specimens of minerals from Kansas.

Harrell, J. Dock. 14606. Aleoholic specimen of salmon from Mis-
sissippi.

Harrison, Benjamin. 13918. Specimen of large mastodon tooth from
shores of Lake George, Florida.

Harrison, Brothers & Co. 15205. Five boxes, containing samples illus-
trating the manufacture of white lead.

Harris, Gwynn. 14631. Specimen of fresh fish from Norfolk, Va.

Harris, W. C. 14938. Specimen of fresh fish from Gogsbic Lake, Mis-

sissippi.

Harris Woolen Company. 15414. Samples of woolen goods.

Hartand von Arx, 15199. Specimens illustrating the process of litho-
graphing on stone.

Hartig, J. £. (British Museum). 14033. Collection of birds’ skins from
various localities.

Hassler and Hopkins. 14621. Specimen of ore from West Virginia.

Hawkins, John. 14442. Specimens of arrow-heads, pottery, shells, &e.,
from South Carolina.

Hawkins, Joshua. 14804. Specimen of fish from South River, Maryland,

Hawley, B. H. 14440 and 14590. Fresh specimen of Japanese fish
and 6 specimens of pottery, from Foreign Exhibition, Boston, Mass,

Hawley, J. K. 15408. Specimens of minerals from North Carolina and
Virginia.

S. Mis, 33, pt. 2-—26

402 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884.

Hayden, Charles 8. 13971. Specimen of clam shell from Maine.

Hayden, John C. 15465. Specimens of serpentine from California.

Haydon, F. Walton. 14306. Alcoholic specimens of birds, fishes, rep-
tiles, and shells, from Hudson Bay Territory.

Hayward, Nat. 13986. Specimen of bird in flesh from Maryland.

Hazlewood, F. F. 14232. Specimen of snake from Maine.

Healy, Captain M. A., U.S. R. M. 15278, 15356 and 15382. Six boxes of
birds, fishes, dredgings, rocks, skin of owl, and crania; also specimens
of plants from Alaska.

Heape, C. 14014. Ethnographic specimens from England.

Hemphill, Henry. 13910, 14005, 14140, 14316, 14457, 14474 and 15519.
Large collection of alcoholic and dried specimens of invertebrates,
corals, shells, &c. from Florida.

Hempstead, Elias. 14303 and 14312. Collection of fossil bones from
Florida.

Henshaw, H.-W. 13938, 13961, 14212, 14263, 14409, 14716, 15484. Col.
lection of birds’ skins, nests, two skins of California vulture, and speci-
men of snake, from Massachusetts, Virginia, Nevada, California, New
Mexico, and District of Columbia.

Heppingstone, Miss Adeline. 14001. Speeimens-of Arctic plants, pressed
and mounted.

Herbarium of Hurvard University. 14392 and 14489. Six large pack-
ages of botanical specimens.

Hereford, Hon. Frank. 13974. Specimen of rock from West Virginia. .

Hering, C. J. 14150. Collection of alcoholic birds, reptiles, insects,
shells, &c., from Surinam.

Herndon, W. S. 13935. Specimens of coal from Texas.

Herring, Sons & Co.,O. 14674. Samples of carpets, showing process of
manufacture by hand looms.

Hicks, G. H. 14718. Alcoholic specimen of snake from Michigan.

Higgins and Gifford. 15358 and 15435. Boat model from Massachu-
setts, and model of Jamaica fruit boat.

Hinckley, Isaac. 15352. Specimen of duck in flesh from Virginia.

Hitchcock, Romyn. 13975, 14786, and 14973. Twelve specimens of the
different furs of commerce; 8 samples of teas, and Germania coffee;
sainples of textiles from Massachusetts, and two Plucker tubes.

Hitchcock, Mrs. R. 14638. Samples of laces.

Hodge, R. 8S. 14686. Specimens of minerals from New York.

Hodgson, Thomas. 14854. Two photographs of the Pennsylvania Coal
Company’s docks, &c.

Holabird, Q. M. Gen. 8. B., U. 8. A. 14682, 14812, 14984, and 15282.
Snare drum, complete with sling and sticks, trumpet and cord, fife,
6 models of tents with equipments, and buffalo and horse hair
plumes as used and worn by officers and men of U.S. Army. (De-
posited.)

vo" i

LIST OF ACCESSIONS TO THE MUSEUM IN 1884. 403

Holmes, Frank. 14135. Sample of folding canvas boat.

Holmes, John FP. 14038. Specimen of water bird from Massachusetts.

Holmes, W. H. 15298. Specimen of wampum belt from Mohawk In-
dians.

Holtzlander, B. 14567. Specimen of a domestic cat from Washington,
D. C., in flesh.

Hoosier Stone Company. 14867. Specimen of building stone from In-
diana.

Hord, J. T. 13978 and 14526. Specimens of minerals from Arizona.

Horn, & Brothers, William H. 15372. Four boxes of shoemakers’, tan-
ners’, and curriers’ tools.

Horn, Dr. G. H. 14004. Box of minerals, fossils, and aicoholic insects
from Arkansas.

Hornaday, W. T. 14822. Thirty-seven specimens of birds’ skins from
India. :

H ner and Hyde. 14399. Two cans of net-preservative fluid.

Horn Silver Mining and Smelting Company. 15181. Specimens of silver,
lead ores and products from Utah.

Hough, F. B. 14377. Sample of maple syrup from Lowville, N. Y.

Houghton, F. W. 15440. Sevén specimens of lava and ashes from vol-
canic eruption in the Straits of Sunda.

Hovey, F. S. 14438. Specimen of tooth of horse from Washington
Territory.

Howard, Arthur G. 14364. Specimens of minerals from Massachusetts.

Howard, Ernest. 14601 and 14739. Specimen of malachite with hema-
tite, and copper ore from Virginia.

Herrman, H. 15466. Samples of plush as used in trade.

Hudson, George A. 14280. Specimens of fresh fish from Ogeechee
River, Georgia.

Humphrey Brothers & Tracy. 14850. Specimens of miners’ boots, bro-
gans, &c.

Hunt, Capt. T. B. 14153. Fresh specimen of the mountain sheep, from
Fort Bridger, Utah.

Hunter, Captain (through L. Stejneger). 15487. Two specimens of moun-
tain sheep and box of birds’ skins from Kamtschatka.

Huse, Fred. J. 14470. Specimens of birds’ skins from California.

Huske, 0. J, 13944. Specimen of salted fish from South Carolina.

Hussey G Co., C. G. 15085 and 15106. Speeimens of coal and copper
from Pennsylvania.

Iglesias, Rafael. 14989. Box of Indian antiquities and pottery from
Costa Rica.

India Museum (through Prof. J.Wood Mason). 15057. Box alcoholic
Shells of Tarbinella pyrum trom Calcutta, India.

Ingalls, John. 14035. Specimen of coral imbedded in bone, from Geor-

gia.
404 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884.

Towa College. 14579. Package of photographs of the Iowa College
Museum, lowa.

Jacobs Brothers. 14215. Specimen of St. Bernard dog in flesh.

Jacobs, George A. 14809. Box of stone relics from South Carolina.

James, Joseph C. 15093. Carved granite head, and stone ball. (Loaned.)

Jansen, D. C. 14644. Specimen of brick from ruins of the Porcelain
Tower at Nanking, China; fossils from gorges of Upper Yangtse, and
slates from China.

Jefferson Iron Company (Anticerp, N. Y.). 14685. Two boxes of miner-
als.

Jeffreys, J. Gwyn (London, England). 14241. Large collection of Euro-
pean and other shells. (Purchased.) °

Jenks, Fred. T. 15001. Specimen of Impeyan pheasant.

Jenks, J. W. P. 14765. Specimens of turtles from various localities.

Jennings & Sons, A. G. 14034. Specimens illustrating the process of
manufacture of silk lace.

Jeremiah, William H. 15261. Three specimens of mounted birds.

Jewett, George W. 14174 and 14252. Specimens of materia medica.

Johns Manufacturing Company, H. W. 15339. Specimens of asbestos.

Johnson, Dr. H. B. 14410. Specimen of pipe and two stone relics from
Alabama. (Loaned.) }

Johnson, Gallup G&G Hurry. 14823 and 15125. Samples of coal from Hay
Creek mines, Wyoming.

Johnson, J. H. 14545. Photograph of the Longdale furnace, Longdale,
Va.

Johnson, J. W. 15505. Specimens of birds’ skins from Alaska.

Johnson, Lawrence. 14454. Small fossil from Florida.

Johnson, Prof. L. C. 14444. Two specimens of fulgurite collected by
Silas Stearns at Santa Rosa Island. .

Johnson, Dr. P. EF. 14698. Five specimens of minerals from Jefferson
County, New York.

Johnston, Col. Alecander. 15351. Pair of Japanese shoes and stockings.

Johnston, H. B. 14198. Specimen of coke from Alabama.

Johnston, G. W. 15113. Specimen of cassowary in flésh.

Jones, James T. 15436. Specimen of meadow lark with straw through
back (in flesh).

Jones, Simpson & Co. 14558. Three photographs of glacial pot hole
from Archbald, Penn.

Jones, Strachan. 14609. Specimen of bone from California.

Jones, Dr. William H., U.S.N. 14202, 15224, and 15474. Eleven boxes,
2 kegs, skulls, birds’ skins, alcoholic specimens of fishes, invertebrates,
&ec., from Honolulu; also large collection of pottery, shells, inverte-
brates, Indian relics, birds, reptiles, &c., from Ecuador, Peru, and
Galapagos.

Joplin Zine Works. 15110. Specimens of zine from Missouri.

LIST OF ACCESSIONS TO THE MUSEUM IN. 1884. ADD

Jordan, Prof. D. S. 13981, 14376, 14486, 14828, 14881, 14944, 15002, and
15011. Large collection of alcoholic fishes and tortoise from Missouri,
Iowa, Arkansas, Indiana, Texas, Florida, Cuba, and Venice, Italy.

Jordan, N. J. 14142. Specimen of crazy-weed, or loco plant, from In-
dian Territory.

Kaldenberg, FP. J. 15158, 15275, 15385, and 15453. Skull and horns of
Indian stag, pair of Indian stag horns, and articles manufactured
from born; also collection of amber.

Kales, J. W. (M. P.). 14387. Indian skull and bones from Union
Springs, N.Y.

Kansas City Silver and Refining Company. 15086. Two boxes lead and
silver ores.

Karns, 8. D. 14237. Sample of mineral from Kansas.

Karmy, A. B. 14092. Specimen of ‘“Naigha,” or Davids pipes, from
Palestine. .

Karr, W. W. 14350. Specimens of minerals for report.

Kaucher, William. 14678. Specimens of fossils from Missouri.

Keenan, Charles, Hospital Steward, U. S. A. 14779. Specimen of hum-
ming moth from Nevada.

Kelleher, Daniel. 14058. Specimen of eel 65 inches in length, stuffed;
also cockroach-trap made from piece of wood from steamer Colum-
bus, with box of cockroaches taken on board whale ship.

Kemp, J. Ff. 15104 and 15178.. Photographs of the Desloges and Saint
Joe Works from Missouri.

Kennedy, H. H. 14712. Specimens of minerals from Kansas.

Kesler, C.W. 15254 and 15503. Specimens of Indian relies from North
Carolina.

Keifer, George. 14878 and 14978. Large collection of ethnography,
mammals, shells, reptiles, minerals, &c., from Peru.

King, Mrs. 8S. E. 14274. Specimen of carved stone head. (Loaned.)

King, Samuel L. 14123. Specimens of minerals from Tennessee.

Kitt, A. 15450. Specimens of crystals found in fossils from Ohio.

Kleeberger, George R. 14456. Vertebral column of reptile from the
Sierras, in California.

Knapp, BE. B. 14302 and 14347. Collection of rocks, concretions, and
fossil shells from New York.

Knapp, GS. 14450. Piece of skin taken from back of Indian So
‘‘Gutnose,” leader in ‘* New Ulm massacre” of 1862.

Knowles, Hubert M., U. S. Life-Saving Service. 13940. Specimens of
small marine animals and shell-fish from Point Judith Light, Rhode
Island.

Knowlton, F. H. 15468. Three specimens of the bronzed grackle.

Knowlton, W.J. 14715 and 14791. Specimens of minerals from Massa-
chusetts; also small collection of minerals. (Purchased.)

Koebele, Albert. 14897. Sixteen specimens of birds’ skins from South
America.
A406 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884.

Kohler, Anton. 14036. Specimen of rock from Wisconsin.

Kohn, A. H. 14429. Specimens of ores, minerals, and arrow-head from —
South Carolina. .

Kohn, G. 14827. Living specimen of turtle from Louisiana.

Koons, B. F. 14458. Specimen of Indian mortar from Connecticut.

Krantz, Dr. A. 15025. Specimens of wooden crystals. (Purchased.)

Kummerfeld, J: F. 13973, 14282, 14652, and 15444. Specimens of In-
dian relics from Iowa,

Kunkel, J. 15427. Specimen of ore from Maryland.

Kunz, G. F. 14747. Two boxes of minerals from various localities.

Lacoe, k. D. 14852. Box of Rhode Island anthracite coal.

Laflin G Co. 14367. Specimens of whitefish from Lake Michigan.

Lake, Miss Frankie. 14002. Living specimen of white rat.

Lake Superior Native Copper Company. 14827. Box of copper slag, &c.,
from Michigan. .

Lamson & Brother, John 8S. 14016. Photographs of stone carving and
package of bones from Chiriqui, Mexico.

Lanfair, George R. 13912. Specimens of starfish eggs.

Lange, Fr. W. A. 14379. Specimens of the wood and bark of the
‘“‘ Hombre grande,” or bitter-wood, from Nicaragua.

Lanyon, Rotert. 15286. Seven boxes and two pieces of zine ores and
spelter from Kansas.

Larceo, A. 14472. Box of alcoholic fishes from California.

Lartigue, Dr. G. B. 14071 and 15507. Live specimen of glass-snake
(Opheosaurus veniralis), stone relic, and clay from South Carolina.

Lavack, Fred. 15319. Specimens of minerals from New York.

Lawlor, D. J. 15228 and 15262. Sixteen boxes and crate of boat
models.

Lawrence, B.and P. 15171. Specimens of pen-holders made from por-
cupine quills. (Purchased.)

Lawton, H.J. 14637. Specimen of mineral from Washington Territory.

Lay, jr.. H.C. 14298. Specimens of insects and mould from Colorado.

Tea, Dr. Isaac. 14466. Life-size crayon portrait of Dr. Isaac Lea.

Leech, Daniel. 14966. Specimen of vertebrae of whale from Massachu-
setts. | ives

Lee, John W. 15597. Specimens of minerals from Maryland.

Lefils, G. 14154. Stone relic from Belgium.

Lehnert, Rev. E. (through R. EB. C. Stearns). 14595. One hundred and
thirty-three species and varieties of land and fresh-water shells from
the District of Columbia.

Lemon, John H. 14639. Specimens of stone axes, arrow-heads, &c.,
from Indiana.

Leon. Dr. Nicholas. 14179. Photograph of image of an idol from Mount
Tzirate, near Del Cristo, district of Morelia, Michoacan, Mexico.

Lewis, D. W. 15112. Specimen of hornet’s nest from Crawford County,
Pennsylvania. ;

LIST OF ACCESSIONS TO THE MUSEUM IN 1884. 407

Lexington Mining Company. 15214. Specimens of silver ores and prod-
ucts from Montana.

Tightfoot, M. P. 14957. Specimens of fossils from Kentucky.

Tilienberg, N. 15128. Specimens of pig and bar iron from Sweden.

Lincoln County, North Carolina. 15418. Specimens of magnetic iron
and gold ore.

Lind, G. Dallas. 14972. Specimen of fossil coral from Indiana.

Lineberger, J. M. 14529. Specimens of minerals from North Carolina.

Lippincott & Co., Charles. 14673. Specimen of marble.

Lippitt Woolen Company. .15383. Samples of woolen fabrics.

Logan, Hon. John A. 14169. Specimens of copper and silver ore from
Arizona.

Long J. C. 14305 and 14481. Three specimens of sulphur in limestone,
and black jacobin pigeon in flesh, from Pennsylvania.

Longdale Iron Company. 14982 and 15204. Collection of mining lamps,
and 11 boxes of pig iron, iron ores, &e., from West Virginia.

Longheed, 8S. D. 15018. Specimens of minerals from Washington Ter-
ritory.

Long Elm Mining and Smelting Company. 15109. Specimens of lead
ore, pig and white lead, from Missouri.

Longstreet, R. F. 14006. Specimen of hair seal.

Lovett, Edward (London, England). 14253. Alcoholic specimens of
stalk-eyed crustacea of the English Channel.

Low & Co., C. Adolphe. 14993. Samples of raw silks.

Lowell Carpet Company. 15099. Eleven samples of carpets.

Inechs, L. 13962, 14163, and 14203. Sample of sand for examination
for manufacture of glass from Western Pennsylvania; sample of
water and washed sand, also specimens of glassware made from sand
2 miles from Washiugton, D. C.

Imupton, N. T. 14299. Specimen of stone carving from Alabama, and
piece of pottery from Chihuahua, Mexico.

Luther, R. C., Mining Engineer of the Philadelphia and Reading Coal and
Iron Company. 15390. Large specimen of lump coal from Pennsyl-
vania.

Iutken, Chr. 14500. Cast of the cranium of dodo, in the possession of
the Zoological Museum of the University of Copenhagen, Denmark.

Maas & Co., William. 15264. Specimens illustrating the manufacture
of combs, &c., from horn.

McFarlane, R. 14072. Skin of marten and musquash from Chipewyan,
Hudson Bay Territory.

Macgregor, Miss Inez. 15038. Two specimens of hybrid fowls from
Virginia.

Mackellar, Smiths & Jordan. 15095. Box of type metal, &e.

Mackinnon, Louis. 15469. Samples of fibers from Jamaica.

Mackintosh, J. B. 14903, 15177, and 15387. Photographs and nega-
tives of the spiegel furnace and the Passaic Zine Works. (Pur-
chased.)
408 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884. /4

MacLean, J. P. 14293. Specimen of brick from wall of fort at Foster’s
Crossing, Warren County, Ohio.

Magruder, Dr. G. I. 15297. Specimen of parrot, in flesh.

Mansfield, J. F. 15398. Coal drill (Grim’s patent).

Marecou, J. B. 14098 and 15409. Part of skin of Litholepis spatula
from Texas, and specimen of vivianite in red sandstone from New
Jersey. m

Marquis, Dr. W. V. 14807. Specimen of bone and tooth from Penn-
sylvania. :

Marsh, Charles H. 14755. Specimen of cotton-tail rabbit from New
Mexico.

Marshall, George. 14473 and 14477. Two specimens of birds’ skins from
Maryland.

Marshall, Henry. 14496. Specimen of mounted bird skin.

Marshall, Lieut. W.A., U.S. N. 13950 and 14107. Package containing
ashes which fell on board the American bark W. H. Bisse at sea
(Indian Ocean) shortly after the Java earthquake; also specimens of
barnacles from bottom of British ship Earl Granville.

Mather, Fred. 14088, 14155, 15464, and 15517. Specimen of mouse with
fungus and eggs of the tom-cod from Long Island.

Martin, Capt. S. I. 13945, 14557, 14417, 14550, 15536, and 14589. Speci-
mens of corals, sponges, fresh fish, mackerel spawn, parasites and
suckers from sword-fish, and bones taken from mouth of a cod from
the fishing banks of Newfoundland.

Mason, John 8S. 14259. Specimens of elk and deer heads.

Mason, L. G. 14599 and 14962. Package specimen of ore and fossilifer-
ous limestone from West Virginia.

Mason, Prof. O. T. 14603, 14622, 14627, and 14958. Alcoholic speci-
mens of fishes; bound volume specimen book of Brnee’s Type Foun-
dry; cast of the deluge tablet, or Chaldean account of the deluge, in
Assyrian cuneiform characters; also collection of seeds.

Massee, Frank A. 14629, Specimen of ore from Virginia.

Matte, Paul. 15360. Living paradise fishes from Germany.

Matthews, W. 15524. Ethnographic specimens from Navajo Indians,
New Mexico. : ,

Maybery, R. 15071. Specimen of copper ore from New Mexico.

Maynard & Co., C.J. 14861. Specimens of birds’ skins.

Maynard,G. W. 15295. Specimen of tin ore from Black Hills. (Loaned.)

MeCallun, Dr. D. 14787. Head of bat from Mississippi.

McCarthy, John T. 14658 and 15480. Specimens of crabs and bones
taken from the head of drum-fish; also specimens of ear bones of fish.

MeCeney, Henry C. 14064, Fossil shells from Prince George’s County,
Maryland. :

McClain, C. S., dinsign U. S. N., U. S. 8. Alert. 14766. Five boxes,
specimens of alcoholic fishes, birds, skeleton of fox, and skull of polar
bear, from various localities in Greenland.

LIST OF ACCESSIONS TO TIE MUSEUM IN 1884. 409

MeClelen, S. H. 14337. Three specimens of minerals from Alabama.

McCook, Anson G. 14349. Silk flag which was presented to the U.S.
Senate July 12, 1870, by Joseph Neumann, of California, supposed to
be the first American flag made from American silk.

McCormick, Lewis M. 14484 and 14578. Specimens of rabbits in flesh,
and birds’ skins from Virginia.

McDonald, Angus. 14582. Specimen of marble from Clarke County,

_Virginia.

McDonald, Marshall. 14238. Specimen of eagle in flesh from Virginia.

McDonald, William. 14272. Specimen of coal from Texas.

MeDougall, Alewander. 15494. Package of sediment from snow which
fell during a snow storm at Poverty Gulch, Colorado, September,
1884, an elevation of 12,000 feet.

McDougall, J.&@O. 14851. Specimens of assorted mining lamps. (Pur-
chased.)

MeEachem, Capt. Henry. 13994. Specimen of knife taken from stomach
of codfish on Le Havre Bank.

McFarland, Prof. R. W. 14000. Specimen of root of cedar cut from
stump 3 miles southeast of Oxford, Butler County, Ohio, 28 feet below
surface.

McGee, WJ. 14659. Four specimens of silicified wood.

McGuire, J. D., U.S. N. 13941 and 14222. Specimens of pottery, stone
mortar, flint and bone implements, and fossils from Pope’s Creek,
Maryland; also skin of bird.

McIntosh, John A. 15014. Specimens of Florida rocks.

McKean, G. L. 14581. Profile portrait of George Washington. (De-
posited.)

McKesson & Robbins. 15249 and 15347. Collection of sponges, and pic-
ture illustrating the preparation of sponges for commerce.

MeKinley, C. 14408, 14425, and 14587. Specimen of fossil wood, arrow-
heads, shells, lump coal, rocks; and limestone from Alabama.

McLean, D. 14078. Specimen of short squid from Lower Potomac River.

McLean, John J. 13964, 14026, and 15504. Specimens of fossil shells
from tunnel under Table Bluff, California; 12 boxes specimens of
ethnography, stone relics, bones, &e., from California,

McLeod, Rev. R. R. 14879. Specimens of birds’ skins from Mexico.

McManus, F. R. 14566. Two gray squirrels from New York.

McMenamin, James. 14464. Fresh specimen of hake (Phycis regius)
from Hampton, Va.

MecNiel, J. A. (through John S. Lamson & Bro.). 14796. Three casks,
specimens of Chiriqui pottery, Xe. (Purchased.)

McNulty, Alexis. 14008, Specimen of salted fish from Savannah, Ga.

Mevteer, James P. 14386. Specimen of double-headed pig in flesh.

Meigs, General M. C., U.S. A. 13943, 14981, 15232, and 15470. Twelve
Specimens of ornamental terra cotta used in constructing the new
United States Pension building; also dressed and ornamental woods
from Pacific coast, Texas, and Ireland.
410 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884.

Mindeleff, Victor. 15450. Number of silver specimens made by the
Navajo Indians of New Mexico.

Mendelson, Dr. Walter. 14630. Specimen of insect from Long Island,
New York.

Mercer, R. W. 13928 and 13957. Specimens of flint, and stone imple-
ments from West Virginia and Georgia.

Merchant G Co. 14884. Two boxes, specimens of zine, tin, &c.

Merchant, jr., G. 14990. Specimen of kyak with equipments. (Pur-
chased.) é ;

Merriam, Dr. C. Hart. 14428, 14593, and 14656. Six entire sets of
mystacial bristles of hooded seal and one imperfect hood in alcohol,
skins and skeletons of seals from Gulf of Saint Lawrence, and birds’
eggs from New York.

Merrill, George P. 14662, 14703, 14710, 14763, 14788, 14801, 1481],
14818, 14947, 14994, 15117, and 15301. Photographs, drawings, and
phototypes of different styles of architecture, by Theophilus Chandler,
(architect), and collection of rocks, minerals, and prochlorite from
Maine, Massachusetts, Maryland, and New Jersey.

Merrill, Dr. J. 0., U. S. A. 14259 and 14657. Six boxes of birds’ skins

and eggs from the Western States, Texas, and Montana.

Merrimac Chemical Company. 15184. Specimens illustrating the man-
ufacture of sniphurie acid.

Meyer, A. B. (Zoological Museum, Dresden, Germany). 14141. Case of
Meissen pottery.

Miles Company, George W. 14122. Collection of oils, and fertilizers
exhibited at London, England, 1883.

Military Institute (Lexington, Va.). 14309. Two specimens of fossils
from Virginia.

Miller, Capt. George H. 14368. Specimen of rose-breasted grosbeak
from District of Columbia.

Miller, Metcalf & Parkin. 14862 and 15101. Specimens of iron and | ~

steel, with case, from Pennsylvania.

Miltimore, A. E., Captain and Assistant Quartermaster, U.S. A. 14557.
Specimen of a moth from Missouri. ~

Mine La Motte. 15340. Specimens of nickel and lead ore from Mis-
souri. :

Missouri Furnace Company. 15417. Specimens of iron ores, &c., from
Missouri.

Mitchell, J. HE. 14932. Four boxes, samples of grindstones.

Moloney, Capt. Alfred (England). 14035. Specimen of dugout used by
the natives of the west coast of Africa.

Montana Smelting Company. 15533. Specimens of copper ores and
products from Butte, Mont.

Moon and Lamphear. 14152. Fresh specimen of salmon from Oregon.

Moore, Degraffe G Co. 15473. Specimens of zine ores from Missouri.

LIST OF ACCESSIONS TO THE MUSEUM IN 1884. 411

Moores, I. R. 13930, Alcoholic specimens of whitefish eggs from
Oregon.

Moore, Julian A. 14213. Bird in flesh, from Virginia.

Moorhead, Warren K. 13979. Specimen of stone relic from Ohio.

Moran, Peter. 14054, Five framed plates illustrating the process of
American etching.

Moreno, Theodore. 14216, Specimen of corundum in margerite from
Georgia.

Morgan, Hon. John T. 15538. Four samples of erude petroleum from
California.

Morris, D. (Director Public Gardens and Plantations, Jamaica). 13903,
14236, and 15461. Collection of materia medica and fungus from Ja-
maica,

Morris, Dr. Robert T, 14435. Specimens of Filaria taken from air blad-
der of trout from Connecticut River.

Morrison, Plummer & Co. 14251. Sample of earth from Nevada.

Morrison, Z. P. 13929, Specimen of stone pipe (broken) from Alabama.

Morton, J. Sterling. 14228. Specimen of Moorish stirrup. (Deposited.)

Moseley, H. N. (Oxford University, England). 14502 and 15518. Specimen
of carnivorous plant with a number of newly-hatched fish attached ;
also two microscopic slides.

Mossy Creek Zine Mine. 15271. Specimens of zine ores from Tennessee.

Moulton Mining and Smelting Company. 15376 and 15534. Specimens of
silver ores, and products from Moulton mine and mill, Butte, Mont.

Motz, Hmanuel. 15186. Three boxes minerals and ores from South
Carolina.

Mound City Paint and Color Company. 15105. Specimens of mineral
paints from Missouri. ;

Muckle, A. M. 14230. Specimen of fresh fish from Manitoba.

Murdoch, John. 15407. Specimen of black amber from Alaska.

Musson, 2. L. 14254. Specimen of mineral from Colorado.

Muzzey, A. P. 14183. Sample of building stone and rock from Wis-
consin.

Nation, William. 14133, 14411, and 15486. Collection of birds’ skins
from Peru.

Nattalburg Coaland Coke Company. 15389. Samples of coke from West
Virginia.

Natural Coal and Coke Company. 15218. Specimens of coal and coke
from Virginia.

Neal, Dr. J. C. 14129 and 14776. Two boxes of fossil bones from
Florida.

Neill, J. W. 15051. Collection of minerals from Missouri.

Nelson, E. W. 14323, 14461, 14531, 14653, 14753, 14890, and 15516. Fif-
teen boxes, 2 barrels, specimens of birds’ skins, reptiles, mammals,
pottery. stone implements, ethnographic, &c., from Arizona and Cal-
ifornia.
412 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884.

New Hanover County. 15419. Phosphatie rock from New Hanover
County, North Carolina.

New River Coal and Coke Company. 15200. Sample of coal from West
Virginia.

Newton, Prof. H. A. 15250. Specimen of the Burlington meteorite.
(Loaned.)

Newton, Dr. W. S- 15429. Tracings of footprints (on muslin) found
in sand rocks in Indian Territory.

New York Assay Office. 15403. Bottle of iridosmine residue. (Loan.)

Nicholls, Dr. H. A. Alfred. 13951. Birds’ skins, shells, and native
sulphur from Dominica, W. I.

Nichols, G. Lawrence. 14741 and 14770. Twenty-three specimens of
birds’ skins and 3 perches from New Jersey. ;

Nichols, Capt. James H. 14315,14492, and 14612. Collection of Indian
relics and stone carvings from Georgia; also 2 specimens of Indian
pottery. (Loaned.)

Nims, C. D. 14713. Collection of minerals. (Purchased.)

Nippon Mercantile Company. 15246. Whalebone cigarette case, and
turtle-shell toilet box. (Purchase, New Orleans Exhibition.)

Nissley, J. R. 14285 and 15442. Specimen of cupped stone from Ohio;
also specimens of stone relics. (Loan.)

Norman, Dr. A. M. 14039. Alcoholic invertebrates from England and
Scotland.

North Chicago Rolling Mill Company. 14911, 14931, and 15363. Speci-
mens of steel ingot, and 8 boxes of iron, steel, slag, &e., and photo-
graph of mills.

Northern Chief Mine. 15237. Specimen of ores from Utah.

Norton, C. B. 14513. Barrel of Brazilian pottery from Boston For-
eign Exhibition.

Norton, O. W. 14106. Specimen of mineral from New York.

Norway Mining and Manufacturing Company. 15111. Specimens of
ores from Utah.

Nova Scotia Iron Company. 15252. Specimens of iron ores, pig iron,
&e., from Missouri.

Oglesby, Dr. W. W. 14304. Indian stone relic from Oregon. (Depos-
ited.)

Omally, Michael T. 14204. Specimen of worm from Arkansas.

Oman and Stewart Stone Company. 14276. Six specimens of building
stones from Kentucky.

Ontario Silver Mining Company. 15235 and 15236. Four boxes of ores
and products from Utah. |

Orcutt, CO. R. 14090, 14224, 14530, 14536, 14838, 15030, and 15392.
Specimens of birds’ skins, living and alcoholic reptiles, shrimps, in-
sects, barnacles, minerals, fossils, shells, and specimen of wood per-
forated by Limnoria californica, from California.

Osborn, Dr. T. 0. 14806. Specimens of birds in flesh from Texas.

;
|
;
,
}

LIST OF ACCESSIONS TO THE MUSEUM IN 1884. 413

Osceola Mining Company. 14800, 14825, and 14826. Specimens of cop-
per ores and its assgciates from Michigan.

Oxford Copper and Sulphur Company. 14445. Specimens of copper ore
from Bergenport, N. J.

Pacifie Mills. 15032 and 15229. Specimens illustrating the manufact-
ure of woolen and cotton goods ; also copper roller for printing calico.

Page, Booth & Co. 15471. Two boxes of coal tar and ammoniacal prod-
ucts.

Page, George Shepard. 14588. Stuffed skin of salmon.

Page and Krausse. 15088. Metallic and mineral paints from Missouri.

Paint Creek Mining Company. 14817. Specimens of coal from West
Virginia.

Palmer, Dr. Edward. 14145, 14289, 14462, 14945, 14976, and 15028,
Collection of ethnographic specimens, sedge grass, rice, pestles, mu-
sical instruments, wood pipes, &c., from Alabama and Georgia; also
65 boxes sponges, corals, invertebrates, ores, shells, materia medica,
&c., from Florida.

Palmer, William. 15958, 13963, 14206, 14260, 14262, 14369, and 14577.
Specimens of birds’ skins from Virginia and South Carolina; also
mounted specimen of parrot.

Park, John M. 14555. Photograph of stone carving.

Parker, Rev. C. W. 15150. Specimen of tooth from Georgia.

Parker, H. W. 14761. Specimen of triassic sandstone from Iowa.

Parker, W. Thornton, U. S. A. 15165. Specimen of Apache Indian
bed from Fort Union, New Mexico.

Parkhurst, V. P. 14509. Samples of food, fruits, plants, &c., from
Jamaica.

Parrot Smelting Company. 15530. Specimens of copper ores and prod-
ucts from Butte, Mont.

Parsons, William B. 15041. Sword of swordfish (curved); chart of
Nova Scotia, New Brunswick, dated 1798; chart of Labrador coast
(very old); and an old-style rule.

Passaic Zine Company. 14690, 14998, and 15368. Collection of zine
ores, spiegel, &c., from their works.

Pattee G Weeks. 15059. Model of the ship Glasgow.

Pawtucket Hair Cloth Company. 15226. Specimens illustrating the
manufacture of hair cloth.

Pearce, Richard. 14370. Specimens of minerals from Utah, Montana,
and Colorado.

Peckham, 8S. F. 15000. Specimens of minerals from Minnesota.

Pelletier, Antonio. 15364. Specimen of stone relic from Mexico.

Pendleton, P. 15159. Specimen of building stones from West Virginia,

Pennsylvania Coal Company. 14723. Lithograph of the Barnum col-
liery breaker of Pennsylvania Coal Company.

Pennsylvania Diamond Drill Company. 15147, 15156, and 15207, Five
boxes containing diamond-dril] exhibit.
A114 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884.

Pepper Mining Company. 15307. Specimen of magnetic iron ore from
North Carolina. .

Perigo, Elmer. 14469, Two specimens of red squirrel in flesh from
Falls Church, Va.

Perkins, .G. H., U. S. N., commanding U.S. S. Hartford. 14859. Box
containing photographs taken by Lieutenant Vreeland and Dr. J. FP.
Bransford.

Perley, L. O. 14564 and 14680. Specimens of fossil shells from Kan-
sas.

Perry, N. H. 18976, 14021, 14023, 14040, 14154, and 14742. Specimens
of minerals from Maine.

Philadelphia and Reading Coal and Iron Company. 14921. Two boxes
specimens of coal, and miners’ tools, from Pennsylvania.

Phillips, Barnet. 15225. Glass balls with feathers.

Phipps, J. 15401. Specimen of ancient coin from Macedonia.

Photo-Engraving Company. 15277. Samples illustrating the process
of photolithography.

Picket, T. J. 15149. Eight stone and one piece of pottery from Old
Mexico. (Deposited.)

Pike, G. W. 14968. Specimen of earth from spring in Arizona.

Pilsbry, H. A. 14987. Specimen of shell froin Iowa.

Piper, Mrs. M. A. 14699. Specimen of mora belt and miniature book
made from gum.

Poey, Prof. Felippe. 14640. Package alcoholic specimens of fish from
Cuba.

Poole, OC. Clarence. 14426. Photograph of hail-stones which fell in
Dubuque, Iowa, June 16, 1882.

Poole, George. 14012. Specimen of baboon in flesh.

Pope, Cole & Co. 15257. Specimens of copper metal and slag from
Maryland.

Potter, Mrs. Frances McNeil. 14102. Sample of hair of the late Presi-
dent Franklin Pierce. ;

Powell, R. J. 15309 and 15423. Block of breccia, specimens of min-
erals, and one diamond-drill core from North Carolina.

Pratt and Lambert. 14242. Samples of spar and light hard oil finish.

Pratt, KR. H., Capt., U. 8S. A. 14055. Max Spotted-tail, Sioux boy, 18
years old (son of Spotted-tail, chief). (Loaned for cast.)

Price, T. S. 15251. Specimen of insect from California.

Proctor, J. M. 14615. Two specimens of ores from Tennessee.

Proctor, John R. 15288. Fourteen boxes of building stones from Ken-
tucky.

Pulcher, C. G. 14756. Specimen of meteorite.

Pumpelly, Raphael. 14082. EHighteen boxes specimens of iron ore.

Quail, James B. 14378. Specimens of fossils, rocks, and stone reli¢
from Kansas.

LIST OF ACCESSIONS TO THE MUSEUM IN 1884. 415

Queen & Co., James W. 15369. Samples of American and foreign safety
mining lamps.

Radford, William H. 15168. Specimens of amalgam, fine gold, nug-
gets with gold and gravel from California.

Ragsdale, G. H. 14104, 14743, and 15077. Birds’ skin from Florida.
Two boxes of birds’ skins and mounted specimen of Buteo hariani
from Texas. (Purchased.)

Ramsdell, J. F. 14188. Specimen of mineral from Minnesota.

Ramsey, N. A. 14915. Specimen of worm from North Carolina.

Randolph County, North Carolina. 15304 and 15420. Specimens of gold
ore from Bush Hill and Leach mines, North Carolina.

Ransom, C. H. 14030. Plaster cast of stone relic from Erie County,
Ohio,

Rathbun, Latham. 14132. Marine specimen from cell in piece of coral
off Tampa Bay, Fla.

Reading Bolt and Nut Works. 15489 and 15496. Lithograplic plan of
their works, drawings of furnaces and tools in connection with roll-
ing-mill works; also 5 boxes of specimens of bolts, rivets, nuts, We.

Reckhart, D. W. 15220. Specimens of ore from Utah.

Red Ash Coal Company. 14767. Specimen of coal from Ross Vein mine,
Pennsylvania.

Red Bird Mine. 15121. Box of ores from Utah.

Reeves, Paul 8. 15206. Specimens of bronze and other alloys.

Reiche, Charles. 14079 and 14284. Two fresh specimens of monkeys.

Reiche, Bdward. 14020, 14046, 14111, 14147, and 14490. Four speci-
mens of monkeys in flesh, and one alligator about 10 feet long.

Remick, John A. 14719. Specimens of gems.

Restigouche Salmon Club. 14692 and 14726. Four large fresh specimens
of salmon (Salmo salar) from Canada, and alcoholic specimens of
young salmon.

Rey, Dr. E. 14899. Box of birds’ skins from Germany.

Reynolds, B. 14934. Skeleton of porpoise from New Jersey.

Reynolds, Dr. B. R. 15137, Stone implement from District of Colum-
bia.

Rheem, BE. S. 15116. Two specimens of horse-hair snake (Gordius
aquaticus. )

Richardson and McCormick. 14226. Two specimens each of flying and
red squirrels from Virginia.

Richardson, J. 14172, 14402, and 15514. Specimen of jumping mouse
(Zapus hudsonius) from Virginia; also specimen of skeleton of python
and rabbit skin.

Richmond and Potts. 15293. Drawings of Siemens furnaces.

Ridenour, C. BH, 15259. Specimens of parasites taken from Potomac
River herring.

Ridgway, A. W. 14887. Three specimens of small birds from Virginia.

Ridgway, D. 15227. Alcoholic specimens of reptiles from Indiana.
416 REPORF OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884.

Ridgway, R. 14319, 14478, 14886, 14925, and 15223. Specimens of
birds’ skins from Virginia and District of Columbia; also two flint
arrow heads from Indiana; specimen of bat caught in Smithsonian
building.

Riggs, L. Frank. 14424. Head-dress of Sioux chief. (Deposited.)

Ringwalt, Joseph C. 14505. Specimen of timber showing dry rot, from
District of Columbia.

Rivett-Carnac, H. 14200. Specimen of the five-headed cobra, supported
by the tortoise, silvered, from Benares bazaar, India.

Roane Iron Company. 14880. Box of iron ore from Tennessee.

Roberts, I. H. 14532. Specimen of ore from New Mexico.

Robertson, W. B. 14049. Specimens of minerals from Virginia.

Robeson County, North Carolina. 15308. Box of marl from North
Carolina. ‘

Robinson, F. C. 14910. Specimens of minerals from’ Maine.

Robinson, Mrs. J. M. 14551. Package of daisy flowers from Utah.

Robinson, T. 14702. Twenty-nine samples of sand, &c., from east
shaft of Washington water-works extension.

Rock, Dr. Miles. 15050. Twenty-five dry-plate negatives of objects
along the boundary line between Guatemala and Mexico.

Rockwell, A. F., Col. U.S. A. 14162. Specimen of hair from the head
of the late President James A. Garfield.

Rockwood, EH. J. 15291. Specimen of stone relic from Massachusetts.
(Loaned.)

Rodgers, Mr. (through Capt. J. W. Collins). 15359. Specimen of model
of the boat Oregon. ;

Rogan, James W. 14171, 14300, 14314, and 15283. Alcoholic specimens —
of mammals, birds’ skins, and two birds in flesh from Tennessee.

Rogers, William J. 14199. Specimens of minerals from Missouri.

Romero, M. (Mexican legation). 15118. Ten packs of Mexican playing-
cards.

Rose, R. H. 15452. Sample of earth from Florida.

Roseborough, J. B. 15458. Specimen of coddling-moth nest on twig
from Utah.
Rosecrans, Hon.W.S. 14120. Specimens of minerals from New Mexico.

Ross, Dr.W. 8. 14351. Specimen of parasite.

Rowland, J. H. 14362. Specimen of double-headed lamb (Ovis aries)
in flesh from Maryland.

Roxbury Carpet Company. 14996. Seven specimens of tapestry Brus-
sels carpets.

Royal Botanical Gardens (Kew, England). 14044. Box of valuable ma-
teria medica.

Royal College of Surgeons (London, England). 14096. Skeleton of Globio-
cephalus melas from Tasmania.

Ruby, Charles. 15506. Specimens of skeleton of elk complete, skin of
black-tailed deer, buck head with antlers, and fossil shells,

LIST OF ACCESSIONS TO THE MUSEUM IN 1884. 417

Rudinee, L. 15075. Specimen of copper ore from New Mexico.
Rust, Horatio N. 14494. Three packages samples of dried cactus, fruit
of fig, live-oak acorns, and meal made from the acorn of California.
Saint Genevieve Copper Company. 15129. Nine boxes specimens of
copper ores, &c., from Missouri.

Saint Joe Lead Company. 14234, 14969, and 15008. Specimens of lead
ore, associates, and minerals.

Saint Lawrence Marble Company. 14831. Large block of white marble
from Gouverneur, N. Y.

Saint Louis Ore and Steel Company. 15138, Specimen pig-iron from
Missouri.

Saint Louis Smelting and Refining Company. 15243. Specimens of sil_
ver and lead refining products.

Saint Louis Tripoli Company. 15089. One half barrel of tripoli fron:
Missouri.

Sampson County, North Carolina. 15313. Fourteen specimens of phos-
phatic rock from North Carolina.

Sanders, J. D. 15053. Box of minerals from Missouri.

Sanford, G. 14689. S)ecimens of fibers.

Saunders, Howard. 15078. Five specimens of birds’ skins from Greece,
Iudia, and South America. ;

Sauter, Frederick. 15058. Box of specimens of birds’ and mammal skins
from Asia and Africa.

Sawyer, C. M. 15449. Specimens of stone relics. (Loaned.)

Sawyer, Rk. J. 14781. Twospecimens of teeth “ horse” from Michigan.

Sayles, Ira. 13989. Specimens of chalcedony from Tennessee.

Sayre Fenale Institute. 14139. Box of fossils from Kentucky.

Nehlichter Jute and Cordage Company. 15244 and 15335. Samples of
jate, twine, rope, &c.; also samples of foreign jute.

Schluter, Wilhe’m. 15045. Package of birds’ skins from Siberia.

Schneider, Hurry. 14227. Fresh specimen of Laverack setter.

Schreiber, J. D. 15353. Box of corundums from Pennsylvania.

Scott, Samuel. 14275 and 15482. Two packages of ores from Dakota.

Seal, William P. 14281. Living specimens of fishes from Pennsylvania.

Sells Brothers. 15490. Specimens of wart-hog and baboon in flesh.

Sells, Lewis. 14294. Fresh specimen of panther (Felis concolor), died
in captivity at Johnson City, Tenn.

Semple, J. G. 14774, 14892, 15019, and 15402. Collection of drawings
and charts. (Purchased.)

Seton, Ernest BE. T. 14912. Specimens of ducks, worms, We., from
Cranberry, Manitoba.

Sewall & Co., Arthur. 15341. Model of boat Rappahannock.

Sexton, Daniel. 15483. Specimen of mineral from California.

Shaefer, P. W. 14901. Photograph and tracings of iron mines and
columnar section of the coal measures near Kobinoor colliery, &c.

S. Mis. 33, pt. 2——27
418 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884.

Shaffer, Dr. J. M. 14528 and 15034. Specimens of petroleum geodes —
and insects from Illinois and Iowa.

Sharp, jr.,& Co., Richard. 14856. Three photographs of mine engines
for outside and inside work. ;

Sharpe, R. Bowdler (British Museum). 14045, 14264, and 15439. Speci-
mens of birds’ skins, collected by Capt. C. T. Bingham ; 66 specimens
of birds’ skins, chiefly India; also specimens of swallows from various
localities.

Sharpless, A. 13915. Three specimens of stone relics from Pennsyl-
vania.

Sheafer, P. W. 14877. Slipper made from anthracite coal; also cube
of artificial coal, stigmaria, alge, and calamite, from Pennsylvania.
Sheafer, Walter S. 14874. Specimen fossil plant from Kohinoor col-

liery, Pennsylvania.

Sheldon, D. 8S. 14432, 14769, and 14813. Living specimens of land tor-
toise, turtles, and turtle-shells from Iowa.

Shelton, Joseph. 14412,15075, and 15185. Samples of ores, rocks, quartz,
&c., from Virginia.

Shepard, Prof. Charles U. 14611. Slice of the iron meteorite from Dal-
ton, Whitfield County, Georgia.

Shepard, James. 14047 and 15015. Cast of perforated stone ornament
and photograph of bowlder.

Shields, G. O. 15381. Specimen of stone implement from Wisconsin.

Shindhelm, M. 15373. Specimens of human hair wigs.

Shipman, Miss Dot. 14790. Specimens of alcoholic fishes from Florida.

Shoemaker, D. I. 15371. Specimen of squirrel in flesh.

Shoemaker, W. LZ. 13942. Specimen of stone mortar from Maryland. .

Shriver, Howard. 14218 and 14441. Collection of fossils and calcareous
deposits, quartz, arrow-heads, and plants from Virginia.

Shufeldt, k. W., Assist. Surg. U. S. A. 14220 and 15451. Skin and
alcoholic specimens of: birds from Louisiana; also shells from Texas.

Siemachko, T. 15348. Specimens of minerals from Russia.

Siler, A. D. 13913 and 14331. Specimens of red-cedar root and rock
from Utah.

Silliman, Prof. B. 15195. Specimen of tin ingot from Irish Creek Vir-
ginia ores.

Silliman, jr., B. 14456. Plaster model of the bronze statue of Prof. B.
Silliman.

Simmons, Newton. 14493. Samples of earth from Maryland.

Sinks, Julia [. 15046. Specimen of stone from Texas, with imprint of
printing on face.

Skillet, William. 15331. Specimens of coal and coke from Missouri.

Skinner, Alexander. 14207 and 14247. Two fresh specimens of musk-
rats from Potomac River, and specimen of bird’s skin.

Slade, Blisha. 14221. Pair living hybrid ducks from Massachusetts.

Slater Cotton Company. 15281. Samples of holly-tree cotton cloth. |

LIST OF ACCESSIONS TO THE MUSEUM IN 1284. 419

Slater, R. H. 13959. Specimen 11 gallons water from Utah Hot
Springs, Utah.

Smith, Mr. 13998. Specimen of red squirrel in flesh from Montgomery

County. Maryland.

Smith, A.J. 14336. Specimens of native copper with azurite in quartz

from Frederick County, Maryland.

Smith, C.D. 15310. Specimen of beryl crystal from Ray mica mine,
North Carolina. :

Smith, Charles M. 14797, 14539, and 14891. Five hundred and twenty-
six specimens of flint implements from Flint Ridge, Ohio.

Smith, E. C. 14543. Specimen of fresh fish from Newport, R. I.

Smith, Bddie N. 15127. Specimen of red slate from Connecticut.

Smith, Frank S. 13926. Specimen of building stone from Angelica,

me N.Y.

Smith, Hugh M. 14728, 15336, and 15337. Specimen of nest with 6
eggs of American goldfinch ; also dried and alcoholic specimens of
birds’ skins.

Smith, J. C. 15526. Specimen of phosphatie concretion.

Smith, Peter. 15412. Large fresh specimen of German carp from Wi-
comico, Md.; weight, 11 pounds.

Smith, Miss Rosa. 14099. Tank of alcoholic specimens of fish from
California.

Smith, R. R. 14553 and 14645. Specimens of arrow-heads, &e., from
Arkansas. (Purchased.)

Smith, William F. 14119. Specimen of crania found on prairie 6 miles
from Webster City, Iowa.

Smitt, Prof. F. A. 14013. Box of ethnology from Sweden.

Snuder, John J. 14821. Specimen of insect from California.

Spainhour, J. M. i3949, 14219, and 15314. Specimens of stone relies
from North Carolina; photographs of hieroglyphies found at head of
Gila River, near line of Arizona and New Mexico.

Spanish Mine. 15241. Specimens of ores from Utah.

| Sparks & Co., George L. 14783. Specimen of porpoise from Cape May,
Bed.

Spencer & MeCouey. 15098. Six boxes of zine ores from Missouri.

Sperry, Edwin A. 143575. Specimens of serpentine from Colorado,

Spicer, George W. 14729. Specimen of fish from Delaware.

Spratt, Joseph. 14355. Eight cans of salmon from Frazer River and
Strait of Fuca; also sample of fish guano made from offal, &e., from
Victoria, British Columbia.

Spray, S.J. 14687. Two specimens of birds’ eggs from Colorado.

South Kensington Museum (London, England). 14097, Two cases of

Chinese fishing apparatus and boats.

— Southside Club. 14060. Specimen of fresh fish from Oakdale, Long

Island.
420 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884.

South Side Mining Company. 15211 and 15212. Four boxes specimens
of zine and lead ores from Galena, Kans.

Southwest Lead and Zine Company. 15160. Two boxes zine ore, spelter,
&c., from Missouri.

Southwick & Jencks. 15379. Specimen of bird’s skin (roseate spoon-
bill). (Purechased.)

Stadtmiiler, I. 14898, 14991, and 15007. Specimens of minerals from
Connecticut ; 1 box of “rocks. (Purchased.)
Staebner, F. W. 14297. Specimens of minerals from Massachusetts.

Stark, W. 13939. Specimen of mineral from West Virginia.

State Line and sullivan Railroad Company. 14926. Samples of Loyal-
sock coal from Towanda, Pa. .

Staunton & Moses. 14737. Plans of spiegel furnaces from Jersey City,
N.J. (Purchased.)

Stayton, Frank. 14574. Specimen of insect from Delaware.

Stearns, R. H.C. 14244, 14519, 14538, 14665, 14666, 14667, 14665, and
14803. Two hundred and twenty-two specimens of minerals and ores,
native gold, silver, and copper, sonorous sand, Indian and stone
relics, 2 boxes of shells, crustacea, invertebrates, ornithology, insects,
foods, seeds, &c., from Western States, Mexico, Chili, Samoa, &e. ; 19
specimens of wood, fiber, pulp, and paper made of the Yucca brevifolia
from Mojave Desert, California.

Stearns & Oo., Frederick. 14697 and 14721. Twenty-four specimens of
birds’ skins from Jamaica, West Indies, Central America, and Costa
Rica (purchased); also collection of materia medica. (Gift.)

Stearns & Oo., John U. 14777. Specimens of silk and silk fabrics.

Stearns, Silas. 14125. Aleoholie specimens of invertebrates and pom-
pano shells from Florida.

Steedman, I. G. W. 15380. Two specimens of fresh fish from Missouri,

Steele, Robert I. 14677 and 14736. Specimen of broken iron pot and
section of same imbedded in tree 33 feet above ground, done by
cyclone near Rockingham, N. C., February 19, 1884; also specimen
of Indian pottery.: .

Stejneger, Dr. Leonhard. 13988, 14018, 14032, 14219, 14491, 14495, 14654,
15021, and 15022. Collection of birds’ skins and swans from Norway,
Faroe Islands, Denmark, Brazil, Madagascar, Newfoundland, and
Europe.

Stennitt, B. W. 14620. Specimen of worm from Pennsylvania.

Stephenson, J. A. D. 14073 and 15492. Specimen of Indian relic and
minerals, and specimen of corundum, from North Carolina. (Loaned.)

Sterling, Dr. EH. 14467. Specimens of dip-net and spears used by fish
ermen of Lake Erie, at Cleveland, Ohio.

Stevenson, James. 14194. Sample of earth.

Stewartand Griffith. 14063. Samples of earth from Calvert County
Maryland.

Stilh, F. H. 15198. Specimen of ore from North Carolina.
‘

SS DPE ee aS ee ee a in tn cee ee oe a a,

LIST OF ACCESSIONS TO THE MUSEUM iN. 1884 4?1

_ Stillman, Horace BE. 14308. Fresh specimen of shad (hermaphrodite).
_ Stockton, W. M. 14546.) Specimen of mineral from Virginia.
_ Stoerzer, Mrs. Lb. 13934. Four spindles and two whorls from Germany,

_ Stolley, George. 135968 and 14085. Samples of cement from Texas.
Stonaker, C. L. 14321. Specimens of rock and minerals from Colorado.
Stone, W. W. 14015. Specimens of jute from Mississippi.

Stoney, George M., Licut. U.S. N., U.S. S. Ounalaska. 14923. Speei-

mens of rocks, sand, &c., collected from new volcano in Behring Sea.
Storey, Jerome (through 2. W. Allis). 14908. Specimens of stone relies

from Michigan. (Loaned.)

Stout, M. BE. 14160. Specimen of ore from New York.

Stover, B.S. 15114. Box of aleoholie fishes and mineral water from
New Mexico.

Strauch, John H. 14871. Specimen of alum crystal from Pennsylvania.

Stubbs, W. P. 15061 and 15122. Paintings of the brig Eugene Hale
and U.S. 8. Meteor; also 3 oil paintings of fishing boats.

Stuffilebeam, J. G. & H. BE. 14534 and 14535, Specimens of minerals
from Arkansas.

Sturges, 0. M. 15062. Specimen of insect from Illinois.

Sturgis, Appleton. 14522. Specimens of jute butts as received from
Calcutta, and samples of sliver yarn, &c., made from the butts used
in the manufacture of gunny cloth.

Sturtz, B. (through Felix Fliigel). 14924. Five boxes rock specimens
from Germany. (Purchased.)

Sumter, J. (through Col. M. McDonald). 14523 and 14643. Specimens
of young fish from Virginia.

Sutton, Col. P. D. 14137. Specimen of manganese oxide from Vir-
ginia.

Swan, H,. R. 15328. Specimens of minerals from New York.

Swan, James G. 15152, 15196, and 15477. Alcoholic fishes and model
of whaling canoe; also large collection of ethnology from Washing-
ton Territory and British Columbia.

Swan, John D. 15325. Specimens of minerals from Antwerp, N. Y.

Swann, William M. 15311. Six packages specimens of fire-clay from
North Carolina.

_ Switzer, Mrs. Mary. 14451. Specimen of egg from Rockbridge
County, Virginia.

Tagore, Rajah Sourindro Mohun. 14094. Collection of Indian musical
instruments, articles used in religious and domestic service, speci-
mens of clay figures, velvet embroidered with gold; also works on
music, &e., from India.

Tate, FE. O. 14518. Specimen of insect from North Carolina,

Taussiy, A. 13995. Twelve packages of garnets, uncut, cut, and pol-
ished, from Bohemia.

Taylor, F. W. 14616 and 14748. Specimens of silver ore and tarantula

from New Mexico. F
422 ~ REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884.

Taylor, W. 14463. Collection in ethnology trom Alabama.

Telegraph Mine. 15239. Specimens of ore from Utah.

Thatcher, I. F. 14542. Specimen of mineral from Lowa.

Thayer, A. H. 14483. Two specimens of birds’ skins from New York,

Thibault, J. K. 14604. Specimens of pottery from Arkansas.

Thomas, W. 8. 14460. Specimen of tale from North Carolina.

Thompson, Edward H. 14511. Bottle of aleoholic specimens of eels
from Buzzard’s Bay, Massachusetts.

Thompson, Heber S. 14866. Three boxes specimens of brogans, and 2
cubes made from anthracite coal from Pennsylvania.

Thompson, Mrs. Oscar G. 15312. Collection of silk cocoons from North
Carolina.

Thompson, W. W. 14383. Specimens of stone relics from New York.

Thurber, Lewis B. 15258. Fresh specimen of green turtle fiom Long
Island.

Tibbitts, J. H. 13999, 14597, and 14650. Specimens taken from sand_
rock, and specimens of plants and minerals, from California.

Tiffany G Co. 14540, 14670, 11909, 15063, 15198, and 15208. Ten alli-
gator skins, samples of leather, &c., pearl jewelry, minerals, and
gems.

Tilghman, B. GC. & R. A. 15525. Four hundred pounds of chilled-iron
globules for sawing and grinding. (Purchased.)

Todd, Aurelius. 14714. Specimen of mineral from Oregon.

Todd, H. L. 14571. Shingle from the smoke-house of General George
Washington at Mount Vernon, Va.

Torrer, A. 18997. Two skins of thick-billed parrot from Durango,
Mexico.

Towne, F. H. 14115. Jar of Chinese “shamshue.”

Townsend, Charles H. 13917, 14105, 14127, 14290, 14576, 14830, 14836,
14920, 14922, 14955, and 15055. Twenty-eight packages containing
large collection of birds’ skins, nests, eggs, skins and skeletons of
mammals, fossils, alcoholic skins of mammals, reptiles, fishes, &c.,
from Farallone Islands and California.

True, F. W. 14834 and 15026. Specimen of jade from New Zealand,
and skull of porpoise from Hatteras, N. C.

Tucker, J. Lee. 14131. Three specimens of ores from Oneonta, N. Y.

Tupper, H. BE. 14061. Specimens of lizards from Florida.

Turner, D. C. 14524. Living specimen of horned toad.

Turner, HE. Y. 14789. Specimen of beryl from Edgecomb mica mines,
Maine.

Turner, H. W. 14439, 14588, 14708, and 15045. Specimen of bat, fresh
specimens of gopher, snakes, and insects from California.

Turner, Lucien M. 13922, 14584, and 15388. Forty-five packages of
general natural history and ethnology from Labrador and Ungava
Bay, Hudson Bay Territory; also alcoholic specimens of mammals,
reptiles, and insects from California.

LIST OF ACCESSIONS TO THE MUSEUM IN 1884. 423

Unexcelled Fireworks Company. 15386. Campaign badges and regalia.

Union Stone Company. 15467. Samples of emery and corundum in
the rock and in the grain as prepared for commerce.

University of Cambridge, Bugland. 14240. Skeleton of Delphinus
tursio.

University of Oxford, England (through Prof. H. N. Moseley, F.R.S.).
13967 and 14091. Specimens of Jurassic fossils, plants, crustacea,
and brachiopods from stone fields near Oxford, Eugland; also box of
plaster casts of mammals and birds.

Upham, Mrs. 2. P. 14820. Specimen of insect from Massachusetts.

Vail, Stephen. 14149. The Morse telegraph instrument—the ouly re-
maining one of the two made at the Speedwell [Tron Works, Morris-
town, N. J., and the one which received the first telegraph message,
* What hath God wrought!” in 1844.

Vance, Mrs. 8. P. 14758. Specimen of carved stone pipe from Ken-
tucky. (Loaned.)

Vansice, Mrs. Isaae. 15327. Collection of minerals from Natural
Bridge, N. Y.

Van Tuyle, Senhora Marie Louise. 14485. Twelve specimens of wax
fruits, 7 cloth figures, and 1 native tea-set made of paper from Brazil.

Van Winkle, A. S. 14471. Two small specimens of fishes from Iowa.

Van Berlepech, Count. 14422. Collection of birds’ skins from South
America and Malacca.

Von Ringharz, Theodore. 15145. Specimen of mineral from North
Carolina.

Waddell & Co., R. J. 14704 and 14733. Specimens of polishing ma-
terial (ground and bottled pumice and rotten-stone).

Wake County, North Carolina. 15266 and 15315. Specimen of soap-
stone and red sandstone.

Walcott, C. D. 15140 and 15299. Four specimens of minerals from
Globe copper mines, Arizona; also samples of acorns used as food
by the Apache Indians.

Walker, John and Charles. 14209. Aleoholic specimens of birds, bats,
reptiles and insects from Illinois.

Waller, William. 14696. Stone implement from Kentucky.

Wanlass, John. 14543. Specimen of miner’s lamp, with match box and
picker.

Ward, Prof. Henry A. 14479, 14623, 14669, 14731, 14771, 14837. 14916,
14929, 14974, and 15242. Collection of birds’ skins, skins and skele-
tons of mammals, ostrich and emu eggs, shells, corals, building
stones, &c., from various localities.

Ward and Howell. 14310, 14684, 14750 and 14919. Minerals, gems,
and cut stones. (Purchased.)

Warren, Allen. 15306. Specimen of fossil coral from marl bed near
Granville, N. C.
424 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884.

Warwick Iron Company. 14706, 14906. Specimens of furnace products,
iron ore, pig iron, slag, &e.
Washington, D. C.:
U. S. Senate. (See under name of McCook, Anson G.)
Treasury Department. (See under Collector of Customs, San Fran-
cisco, Cal.)
U.S. Coast and Geodetic Survey. 14025. Six boxes of the standard
weights and measures of the United States.
Life Saving Service. (See under name of Knowles, H. M.)
Revenue Marine Service. (See under name of Healy, Capt. M. A.)
War Department:

Quartermaster-General’s Office. (See under names of 8. B.
Holabird, Quartermaster-General, and A. E. Miltimore.)

Medical Department. (See under names of Army Medical Mu-
seum, Drs. Elliott Coues, and H. C. Yarrow.) ‘

‘Engineer Department ;

Wright, H. G., Maj. Gen., U. 8S. A. 14022. Specimens of
borings made in 1874 for the reclamation of the alluvial
basin of the Mississippi River.

Wheeler, George M., Capt., U. S. A. 13965, 13966, 14042,
and 14087. Specimen of asphaltum and iron from Black
Hills, specimens of fossils from Crawfordsville, Ind., and
garnet-bearing formation from near Fort Defiance, Ari-
zona; also 31 specimens of birds’ skins, specimen of en-
crinite, and topographical model of the San Juan mining
and mountain region of Colorado. (See also under
names of General O. E. Babcock and Col. A. F. Rock-
well.)

Signal Corps. (See under names of John J. McLean, John
Murdock, and L. M. Turner.)

Retired from active service, General M. C. Meigs.

U.S. Army. (See under names of Capts. Charles Bendire and
Rk. H. Pratt; Assistant Surgeons R. W. Shufeldt, Tim-
othy E. Wilcox, J. C. Merrill, and Lieut. George F.
Chase).

Navy Department:

Bureau of Navigation. (See under name of Commander A. 8.
Barker.)

Hydrographic Office. (See under name of Commander John R.
Bartlett, hydrographer.)

U. S. Navy. (See under names of Capt. George H. Perkins ;
Lieuts. George M. Stoney, W. A. Marshall, and J. D.
McGuire ; Surgeons J. M. Flint and William H. Jones;
Passed Assistant Surgeon M. H. Crawford; and Ensigns
A. A. Ackerman, H. G. Dresel, C. H. Harlow, C. 8.
McClain, and Ernest Wilkinson.)
LIST OF ACCESSIONS TO THE MUSEUM IN 12384. 425

Washington, D. C.—Continued.

Interior Department :

U.S. Geological Survey. 13931 and 13995. Ten views of Cap-
tain Duttows Atlas of the Grand Canton District; also
Ll boxes of lithologie and mineralogic specimens col-
lected by geologists of the division of the Great Basin.
(See also under names of Prof. F. W. Clarke, T. M.
Chatard, W.C. Chapin, William H. Holmes, J.B. Mareou,
James Stevenson, and C. D. Walcott.)

Census Office. Eighteen boxes of iron ore. (See under name
of R. Pumpelly.)

Bureau of Ethnology (J. W. Powell, Director). (See under names
of Bureau of Ethnology, F. H. Cushing, H. W. Henshaw,
Edward Palmer, and Victor Mindeleff.)

Department of Agricu ture. 14365. Specimens of areca nuts from
Hindostan.

U. S. Commission of Fish and Fisheries (Prof. Spencer F. Baird,
Commissioner). 159338, 13980, 14037, 14043, 14136, 14225,
14269, 14286, 14524, 14334, 14342, 14389, 14420, 14522,
14580, 14607, 14759, 14835, 14960, 15189, 15289, 15343,
15365, 15399, 15426, 15431, 15438, 15452, and 15462. Spee-
imens of cotton from Old Providence, West Indies; 1
barrel of corals; one half barre] geological specimens; 1
basket-trap ; 2 trays homeopathic vials, 5 tanks, 850 bot-
tles, and 3.0 jars alcoholic specimens of fishes, inverte-
brates, reptiles, birds, mammals, &c., from West Indies
and Gulf of Mexico; 8 living specimens of cactus from
Mexico; 27 packages of birds’ skins, mammals, reptiles,
and insects from Florida; 6 tank-boxes of alcoholic fishes
and marine invertebrates from West Indies; a large
collection of 1,400 packages containing alccholic fishes,
marine invertebrates, crustacea, &c., from the coast of
Massachusetts during summer of 1854; also specimens
of shark and two dolphins in flesh; large specimen of
lobster ; ear- bones and vertebrae of whale, with specimen
of granite from Cape Cod, Massachusetts; box of deep-
water barnacles from east coast of United States; 2
boxes of samples of mineral water from Wood’s Holl,
and model of steam seine boat; 1 barrel and 1 keg of
oysters from Chesapeake Bay ; s; ecimens of California
trout, two years old, hatched at Wytheville, Va., with
numerous fresh specimens of carp, goldfish, tench, cray-
fishes, and water-snakes from the United States carp
ponds and Central Station. (See also under names of
Prof. A. E. Verrill, R. Rathbun, Prof. David 8S. Jordan,
Charles H. Gilbert, G. Brown Goode, Dr. T. H. Bean,
M. McDonald, T. B. Ferguson, Joseph W. Collins, H.C.
Chester, James G. Swan, and Vinal N. Edwards.)
426 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884.

Washington, D. C.—Continued.

Department of State. 13947. Suit of Japanese armor. (Deposited.)
Waters, William. 14844. Specimen of peacock coal from Pennsylvania.
Watkins, G. W. 14819. Specimens of minerals from New York.
Watts, J. J. 14338. Specimens of fossils from cave in Virginia.
Weaks, P. B. 14868. Specimen of natural formation from stump 20

feet below surface.

Weaver & Co., G. B. 14385. Specimen of fresh shad from New York
market.

Webb, John. 15324. ‘Twenty-five specimens of minerals from Saint
Lawrence County, New York. :
Webster, Frederick S. 14208 and 14393. Specimens of birds’ skins (Ple-

gadis faleinellus) trom Florida.

Weinlond, Wiliam H. 15082, Package of botanical specimens from

Alaska.

Weld, George H. 14971. Specimen of branch of tree from North Caro-
lina.

Wells, Bard. 14872. Specimen of quartz erystal and lepidodendron
rock from Pennsylvania.

Wells, Frederick. 14628. Two skins of young woodchucks from Amber,
jae ss ‘

Wells, J. G@. 14051. Specimens of birds’ skins from West Indies.

Wesleyan University (Middletown, Conn.). 13911, 14109, 14948, and

15460. Two boxes of minerals, birds’ skins, and 250 species of land

shells.

Wharton, Joseph. 13984 and 14052. Specimen of nickel-plated iron, 10
per cent. nickel on each side; also pumice from Krakatoa.
Wheeler, Charles Le Roy. 14246 and 14358. Box of shells and fresh

fish from Cape May, N. J.

Wheelock, D. B. 14080. Tibia of fossil saurian.

Whitcomb, George D. 14869. Photograph of Harrison mining machine
from Illinois.

Whitcomb & Co., H.C. 15354. Specimens illustrating the manufacture
of electroty pes.

Hlectrotyping: (1) Process wood-cut and type form locked up in
chase ready for mold; (2) mold in beeswax, surface block
leaded; (3) deposit of copper by dynamo electric machine; (4)
copper shells removed from mold; (5) copper shells loaded up
with electrotype metal, principally lead; (6) finished book and
duplicates of wood-cuts to be ready for the press.

Stereotyping: (1) Mold of music and type faces in dry and plas-
ter; (2) coating of same in stereotype metal; (3) finished book
and inner plate.

White, George D. 14882. Specimen of ore from Oregon.
White, George W. 14573. Package of ore from Mississippi.

‘\
LIST OF ACCESSIONS TO THE MUSEUM IN 1884. 427

White, J. C. 14986. Small collection of wax impressions of seals and
coins.

White, John C. 14348. Mineral from Texas.

Whiting, Frank H. 15285. Specimen of lizard and snail shells from
Connecticut.

Whiting, S. B. 14840. Sixteen boxes of coal and its associates from
Pennsylvania.

Whitney, Eli. 15499. Original model of the cotton-gin invented by
Eli Whitney, sr., in 1793. (Deposited.)

Whitney, T. J. 14749. Collection of minerals from Gouverneur, N. Y,

Whittenton Manufacturing Company. 15296. Samples of cotton.

Wilder, Amos. 14693 and 15523. Insects from Maine.

Wilcox, Dr. T. B., U.S. A. 14634. Arapaho saddle-bags.

Wilkinson, Ernest, Ensign, U. 8S. N. 14325 and 15080. Package of
small insects from Ohio and minerals from Colorado.

Willcox, Joseph. 14936 and 14946. Two boxes of minerals from Penn-
sylvania. (Deposited.)

Williams & Everett. 14900, 15391, and 15415. Six boxes of autotypes.
(Purchase, New Orleans Exhibition.)

Williams, Ezra. 14266. Specimen of ore from Cascade Mountains.

Williams, Dr. G. H. 14258 and 14416.. Specimens of rocks from Ger-
many, Italy, Baden, island of Ischia, and France.

Williams, Goodwin H. 14914. Specimen of root of a plant from Vir.
ginia.

Williams, Capt. John J. 14159. Specimens of garnet in granite from
Delaware County, Pennsylvania.

Williams, J. L. 14841. Specimen of Williams’s safety lamp and iron
pyrites.

Williams, Capt. Thomas. 14430. Specimens of ores and fossils from
Potomac River and Massachusetts.

Williams, Capt. Thomas. 14608. Four specimens of minerals from
Delaware County, Pennsylvania.

Willis, John J. 13972. Specimens of insects which fell on January 19,
1884, at Westfield, N. J., after a snow storm.

Williman, H. 15115. Package of minerals from New Mexico.

Wilson, Charles F. 14371. Five specimens of welded copper.

Wilson, Thomas. 13982. Box of shells from France.

Wilson, Hon. William L. 14089. Specimens of mineral from West
Virginia.

Winifrede Coal Company. 15092. Specimens of coal and slate from
West Virginia.

Wise, Hon. John S. 15366. Bird in flesh from Virginia.

Witherbee, T. F. 15321. Specimen of tourmaline from Crown Point,
Ls a &

Woerffel, C. T. 14029, Paper-weight composed of 38 samples of orna-
mental stones from Russia.
428 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1884.

Wolford, W. L. 14746. Four birds’ skins from Maine.

Wood, George H. 14855. Five negatives of Long Valley Coal Com-
pany’s mines, Pennsylvania. (Purchase, New Orleans Exhibition.)

Wood, J. P. 14333. Insect from Auburn, N. Y.

Woolfe, Henry D. 15495. Specimens of coal, &c., from Cape Lisburne,
Alaska.

Wooster, A. F. 15044 and 15527. Stone image (loan) and skin of squir-
rel from Connecticut.

Worthen, CO. K. 14278, 14545, 14433, 14497, 14648, 14889, 15068, and
15502. Collection of birds’ skins from Oregon, Mexico, New Mexico,
Illinois, and various other localities.

Wyant, William. 15330. Two boxes, specimens of coal and coke from
Eagle, W. Va.

Yarrow, Dr. Henry C., U. S. A. 14057 and 15142. Chinese bait-box,
alcoholic¢ fishes, reptiles, shells, insects, ores, and fossils from Utah.

Yaste, W. S. 14727. Specimen of bat, in flesh.

Yeates, William 8S. 14950 and 15349. Specimens of minerals from Mine
La Motte, Missouri, and arrow-heads from North Carolina.

Yerrington, J. D. 14663. Specimens of Hiddenite, crystals and brill-
iants. (Purchased.)

Yoakum, F. I. 14251. Alcoholic specimens of fish from Texas.

Yosemite Mine. 15240. Two boxes, specimens of ores from Utah.

Young, G. V. 14475. Scales from the alligator gar from Mississippi.

Zahn, Henry. 15476. Specimen of sulphate of iron in crystallized form
from Phillips County, Kansas. F

Zeledon, José C. 13932, 14003, 14229, 14963, 14977, 15151, and 15511.
Birds’ skins, specimens of materia medica, fossils, stone relics, pot-
tery, alcoholic mammals, reptiles, fishes, birds’ skins, dried plants,
and specimens of beads from ancient Indian mound, Costa Rica.

Zeledon, Senor Juan. 14988. Bird’s skin from Costa Rica.

Zoological Society of Philadelphia. 15377. Specimen of bird in flesh.

Zukoski, FE. L. 15501. Box of ores from Missouri.
—————

Ee

rN oe

A.

Abbott, Mr., contribution from, 66.

Abert, Col. J. J., minerals from, 65, 221.
Abrading and polishing materials, 269, 276.
Acanthidops bairdi, 377.

Acanthis, notes on, 366.

Acanthocinus spectabilis from California, 187.
Accessions, list of, 381.

Accounts, 19, 37.

‘ Achorutes from Colorado, 185.

Maine, 187.

Ackerman, A. A., 68.
Acronycta betule, 361.
Actinozoa, Devonian, 213.
Actodromas maculata, breeding of, 376.
Adams, W. H., 260.
Aden boat models, §9.
Administrative staff of Museum, 35.
Administrative work in the Museum, 35.
£lurichthys eydouxii, note on, 374.
Africa, arrows from, 119.

collections from, 72.

dug-out canoe from, 90.

weapons from, 118, 119.

whips from, 119.

Aleut baskets, 292.
grass wallets, 292.
mat material, 292.
ornamentation, 292.
weaving and embroidery, 293.
throwing-sticks, 288.
Aleutian Islands basket-work, 292.
Algonkin and Iroquois basketry, 305.
basket ornamentation, 306.
Alleghany region of Southern States, fishes from,

170.

report on
fishes of
170.

Allen, Dr. Harrison, studying Museum bats, 136.
Allen, J. A., made analyses, 246.
Alligator obtained in 1884, 44.
Alloys collected, 242, 268.
manufacture of, 276.
Altamaha Basin fishes collected, 175.
Alvord, 8. W., favors from, 267.
Ambocelia umbona, 206.
America, prehistoric, 351.

| American Dental Association meetings, 35.

Agassiz, Alexander, mollusks obtained by, 62,180. |

Ageleing reviewed, 377.
Agricultural Department, drugs from, 76.
Aht basketry wantin in the collections, 298.
Air in lecture room, aualysis of, 38, 39, 40.
Ajax Company's metal bearings, 242, 268.
Alabama fishes received, 164, 176.
Alaska antiquities exhibited, 125.
birds from, 60.
Eskimo basket ornamentation in, 293.
basket-work in, 293.
bows from, 307.
collections, 57.
exploration, 69.
fishes of Captain Nichols, 347.
fishing-boat models, 87.
invertebrates, 192.
mammals obtained, 130.
rocks from, 230.
salmon collected, 172.
Thiinket objects, 114.
willow wren, 69.
‘‘Albatross”’ birds from West Indies, 60.
bottom samples, 192.
brought West Indian bats, 130.
collection of birds, 358.
deep-sea fish, 163.
collections assorted, 197.
in Gulf of Mexic», 197.

of invertebrates, 63, 189, 190.

reptiles, 61, 157.
crinoids from off Havana, 190.
deep-sea collections, 70.
explorations, 197, 198.
off ¢ «stern coast, 197.
land collecting, 70.
preparing for Gulf cruise, 199.
reported spotted delphin, 317.
shore collections, 197.
sounding operations, 197.
work discussed, 379.
zoological material, 199.
Albion, N. Y., building stone, 227.
Albite from Maine, 228.
Alcoholic building needed, 22.

Fish Cultural Association in Museum,
34.
Institute of Mining Engineers, collec-
tion from, 67.
Museum ot Natural History, 10.
birds in, 153.
Ship Windlass Company models, 95.
Surgical Association in Museum, 34.
- Taxidermists, gift from, 41.
Ammonia in lecture room, 39.
Ampullaria Powelli associated with Physa, &c.,
207.

Amygdaloid mines copper, 254.

| Analecta Ornitbologica, 366.

series, 255, 270.

Anas boschas and obscura, 378.
Anatomy, comparative, department of, 62.
Ancistrodon contortrix, poisoning by, 370.
Ancon, Peru, pottery from, 121.

Peruvian antiquities, 116, 117, 118.
Andaman Islands, Turbinella pyrum from, 183.
Anderson River hiasetng alan, 223.

Andesite and pumice from Mount Shasta, 231.
Andesites from Mount Shasta, 228.

| Andrade, Joseph, and Co., 47.

Andrews, W.H., sent minerals, 222.
Anguillula, 360.
Animal fibers, 79.
products at Louisville, 49.
New Orleans, 51.
collection reorganized, 56.
size of, 56.
gifts of, 56.
section, 16, 18.
Animals from Costa Rica, 71.
Aniscaline reviewed, 377.
Anisopteryx pometaria, 360.
Annelids from Bermuda, 340, 381.
Florida, 191.
studied by Mr. Benedict, 197.
Annex building, 21, 36.
Ansonia Brass and Copper Company collection,
256, 275, 276.
Anthozoa, new species of, 380.
of the Albatross, 197.
returned by Professor Verrill, 190.
studied by Professor Verrill, 200.

429
430

Anthracite breakers, photographs of, 243,
coal and associates, 242.
from Pennsylvania, 261.
in zine furnaces, 260.
from Colonel Pendleton, 262.
Authbracites from Brookside colliery, 262.
Loyalsock mine, 262.
Lykens Valley district, 262.
Anthrenus scropbularie from Connecticut, 186.
Anthropological classification, 14,
collections, 13.
arrangement of, 54.
material classified, 109.
Society, early history of, 56.
lectures, 33.
Anthropology defined, 54.
division of, 16, 538.
in Washington, 354.
museum of, 54.
preparators in, 47.
progress in, 354.
Antillean region invertebrates, 191.
Antimony ores, 271.
from Utah, 253.
in Centennial collection, 253.
Antiquities, 16.
aboriginal, circular relative to, 356
accessions to, 59, 123, 127.
arranged by material and form, 58.
arrangement of, 126, 127.
catalogued, 125.
department, 58.
recommendations for 127.
duplicate, 59.
exhibited, 125.
extralimital, 127.
from Dr Jones, 71.
number of, 59, 127.
of Chiriqui, 71.
prehistoric European, 127.

prepared for New Orleans Exposi-

tion, 126.
report on department of, 123.
researches upon, 126.
sent as exchanges, 126.
special collections of, 58.
work upon, 125.
Antrim mines coal, 243.
Apache basket ornamentation, 302.
bed, 116.
necklace, 116.
Apocynum cannabinum for basketry, 301.
Appendix, list of accessions, 381.
Applications for specimens, 30.
Aquatic animals at carp ponds, 72.
mammals at London fisheries, 342.
Arapahoes, saddle-bags from, 116.
Archeological collection at New Orleans, 51.
objects from California, 69.
Archer, B. V., reptiles from, 158.
Archer, Prof. T. C., 80.
Archives, 19.
Arctic exploration, 69.
Ocean shells obtained, 184.
type of bow, where used, 314.
Eskimo bow, 310.
Ardea wardi, notes on, 380.
Argent Club meetings in Museum, 35.
Argentiferous lead ores, 271.
smelting of, 240.
smelting series, 252.
Argentine Republic rocks, 227.
Works smelting series, 252,
Arizora aboriginal pottery, 121.
antiquities obtained, 124.
birds from E. W. Neison, 60.
calcareous incrustations, 230.
collections, 70.
copper smelting, 256.
mammals obtained, 150.
minerals needed, 247.
Arkansas antimony ores wanted, 253.
antiquities received, 125.
fishes obtained, 61.
white-grub fungus from, 185,
Arlington Mills, collection of yarns from, 81.
visited, 83.
Armory building storage, 21, 53.

INDEX.

Army Medical Museum, antiquities from, 124.
worm, 363. :
Arnot mine coal, 243.
Art and industry objects from Africa, 72.
students in the Museum, 33.
Artibeus perspicillatus obtained, 130.
Artists represented by autotypes, 51.
work, 47.
Arts and industries collections, 53.
curators, 53.
department, 16, 53.
reported on, 55.
Arvicola, 326, 329, 330, 367.
amphibius, 3828.
and Fiber contrasted, 329.
generic characters of, 329.
Asbestos collection, 242, 268, 269, 276.
Ascalaphus hyalinus from Long Island, 186.
Ashburner, C. A., sent charts of coal-fields, 265.
Asia, bats, &e., from, 131.
collections, 71.
Minor, ancient lamps, 118.
Asopia costalis from Virginia, 185.
Assinaboine moccasins, 116.
Assistant director, duties of, 18.
director’s report, 339, 352.
Astacide returned by Professor Faxon, 201,
Astacus catalogued, 371.
Asteroidea, new species of, 379.
Astur atricapillus henshawi, 376,
striatulus, note on, 357.
Athyris sublamellosus, 206.
Atkinson, Lieut. B. W., collected reptiles, 158.
Atlantic shore fishes collected, 174.
Atopbyrax Bendirei mentioned, 130.
Attacus cecropia from Missouri, 186.
Attagen group reviewed, 367.
ptarmigans of the group, 366.
Attu throwing-stick, 288.
Atwater, Prof. W. O., 16, 18.
food analyses by, 108.
papers of, 346,
Auriftrous gravel collections, 271.
pyrite collections, 271.
Australian fishes repaired, 41, 44.
rocks, 237.
Austria stalagmites, 229.
Automatic registers of visitors, 32.
Autotypes by Braun & Co., 56.
Auxis rochei from Wood's Holl, 163.
Aviculopecten catactus, 206.
Aymé, Louis, collections of, 70.
investigations of, 70.
objects from Yucatan, 57.
Azores building and ornamental stones, 236
building stone, 227.

| Aztec antiquities received, 123.

B.

Babbitt and other alloys, 242, 276.
Baby-basket of Modoks, 300.
North California Indians, 300.
Backgrounds, 26.
Baeder, Adamson & Co., sand-paper collection, 276.
sent collection, 268.
Bag-worm from Arkansas, 185.
Bailey, E. M., sent Maine minerals, 223.
Bailey, Sylvanus, throwing-stick from, 289.
Bailey & Co., ropes and twines from, 80.
Baird, Prof. Spencer F., 38, 136.
directed the collecting
of fishes, 169.
Maine shell-heap re-
mains from, 124.
offered reward for dol-
phin, 317.
sent frigate mackerel,
163

sent reptiles to Cope,
157.
writings of, 346.
Baird, Brewer & Ridgway on water birds, 346.
Baker, A B., sent bat from Kansas, 130.
Baker, Dr. Frank, lecture by, 34.
Balbach, E., & Sons’ bullion refining series, 252.
co}'ection of gold and cop-
per, 250.
~~

i el

INDEX.

Balbach, E., & Sons’ gold collection, 275.
silver refining series, 275.
Balch, F. V., 92.

Baldwin, A. H., field work of, 194.
laboratory work of, 198. :
oflice work of, 194.

Baltic Sea herring-fishing boat, 104.

Baltimore clipper brig model. 94.

Copper Works collection, 256, 275.

Bankskuta (Swedish cod-fishing vessel) model,

103, 104.
Barbirussa tusks from Indian grave, 367.
Barbour Flax Spinning Company, specimens of
flax from, §1.

Barbour, William H., 121.

Bark, merchant, color-sketch of, 121.

Barker, H., & Sons sent Quincy granite, 236.

Barking sand from Germany, 227.

Hawaiian Islands, 227.

Barnacles, deep-sea, sent to Dr. Hoek, 190.

Barnum, Bailey & Hutchinson sent mammals, 131.

Barroll, Lieut. H. H., obtained Rannia, 192.

Bartlam, Thomas A.., 268.

Bartlett, Mr., contribution from, 66.

Barytes, collection from Page & Krause, 244.

utilization of, 276.

Basket characteristics, 291.
drawing-string of Aleuts, 293.
making tool, 291.
material of spruce roots, 295.
ornament ition with reindeer hair, 294.
needle of hawk hone. 300.
thread and needles (Indian), 300.

of pine root, 300.
trays of Apache Indians, 302.
of the Utes, 302.
weaving indicated, 291.

Basket-work. aboriginal, 291. |
drawings, 291. /
of Alaskan Eskimo, 293. :

Aleutian Islands. 292.
Algonkins and Iroquois, 305.
Bilhoolas, 297. * |
Central and South America, 306.
Chilkaht Indians, 295.

great cedar. 297.

Haida Indians, 296. i
Hong Kutechin Indians, 295. |
Moki Indians, 303.

North America aborigines, 291.
Sahaptin stock, 301. . “
Shoshone Indians, 301.
Southern Indians, 305. |
Tinné Indians, 294. j
Zunis, 304. |

Basketry a savage art, 291. H

|

bower style, 298.
checker-woven, 297.
coiled, associated with pottery marks, '
294.
of Indians and Siamese, 294. |
covering a bottle, 299. /
fish-trap style, 297.
hats ornamented with diamond pat- |
terns, 296.
of Abt tribes needed, 298.
Great Interior Basin, 301.
Oregon and California Indians, 299. |
paper on. mentioned, 57.
scallops of Aleuts, 293.
twined, 292.
Baskets, coiled, 293.
examined by Professor Mason, 291.
imitating chinaware, 296.
in relation to migrations, 295.
of Alaskan Eskimo, 293.
bireh, linden, &c., 305.
coiled type, 294.
Makahs, how composed, 298.
South America, needed, 306. j
twined, 293, 296.
with feather ornamentation, 301.
Bat, Brazilian, from Kansas, 130.
fishing, obtained, 130. i
Batchen, 2.8. F., sent building stones, 66, 231.
Bats identified, 133.
lent to Dr. Allen, 136.
F. W. Cragin, 136.

431

' Bats presented by British Museum, 130.

Bay of Fundy shell-heap remains, 124.
Bean, Barton A., assisted with fishes, 169.
sent to Long Island, 165.
Bean, Dr. TI. H., 17,351.
collected Long Island fishes, 164.
curator, 61.
editor, 19, 165.
lichens from, 377.
ee tae
0.
on Florida fishes, 353.
London Fisheries fishes, 341.
pee of, 347.
-acific salmon studied by, 172.
report of, 161..
sent to Long Island, 165.
and Dresel, H. G., on Jamaica
fishes, 347.
Beardsley, Mrs. A. J., minerals from, 222.
Beaufort fishes, notes upon, 171.
studied, 171.
Beckham, C. W., 152.
assisted with birds, 143.
Beechey’s Eschscholtz Bay throwing-stick, 284.
Belding, L., California birds from, 69.
Belgian fishing in 91.
sloop model, 91.
Bell James, collected reptiles, 158.
rattlesnake skin, slippers from, 116
Bella Conula objects, 115.
Bellemont Forge collections, 244.
Belleville mines, coals from, 267.
Belmont Forge wrought iron, 257.
Belostoma americanum from New York, 186.
Bendire, Capt. Charles E., 17, 18.
collections from, 69.
contributed valuable
collections, 60.
fishes from, 161.
honorary curator, 60.
on birds eggs wanted,
343, 347.
overhauled eggs, 152.
presented his birds’
eggs, 153.
rearranged birds’
eggs, 143.
reptiles from, 61, 157.
Béné, R. T., gift by, 47.
Benedict, James E., Albatross naturalist, 198.
evllections of, 197.
secured West Indian bats,
130.
studying Annelids, 190, 197,
200.
and W. Nye, collected birds,
358.
Bengal fishing dug-out, 88.
pipe, 118.

| Benner, D. J., palm-leaf coat from, 118.

Berardius from Bering Island, 131.
New Zealand, 131.
Bergen’s Museum, collections from, 71.
Echinoderms trom, 193.
to receive invertebrates, 196.

| Bering Island, seals obtained, 131.

whales, 131
Sea and Arctic mollusks obtained, 181.
volcanic rocks, 69.
Berlin Fisheries collections, 6.
Exhibition, water craft from, 106.
Museum, co}leetions from, 71.

Bermuda Annelida, 340, 381.

bird new to, 340.

birds, 340, 377.

rare and accidental, 340.

botany, 340, 376.

geology, 340, 377.

mammals, 340, 374.

reptiles, 340, 372.

stalactites, 2:8.

natural history of, 353.

new and rare birds of, 376.
Bertha Zine Company, ores from, 258.
Bery! from Maine, 230.
Bessels, Emil, 279
Bessemer steel collections, 243, 258, 275.
432

’ Beyer, Dr. H. G., 16. |
honorary curator, 75. |
Bibliography, analysis of, 337,359.
of Museum, 31, 387, 339.
Biddle on construction of Indian vessels, 89.
Bigelow Carpet Company specimens, 82.
visited. 83.
Bilhoola Indian basket. work, 297.
Binney, Dr. W. G., shells contributed by, 181.
iological Society leatures, 33.
meetings, 39.
Birch and linden in-basketry, 305.
Bird collections of National Museum, 358.
labels for exhibition, 154.
prepared. 59, 151.
sample of, 151.
new to Bermudas, 340.
Birds, 17.
added to exhibition series, 155.
alphabetical list of accessions to, 143-149.
and fishes mounted, 41, 44.
aquatic and fish-eating,at London Fisheries,
rearranged, 150.
department of, 59.
desirable for exhibition, 155.
to purchase, 155. ‘
displayed in American Museum of Natural
History, 153.
distributed, 149.
duplicate and exchanged, 60.
Birds’ eggs, 17, 18, 60.
exchanged, 150.
and loaned, 60.
foreign, 60.
installed, 153.
lent, 150.
number of, 60, 153.
overhauled, 152.
presented by Captain Bendire, 153.
wanted, 343, 347.
extensive accessions of, 60, 143.
exhibited at Cincinnati, 50.
New Orleans, 151.
exotic, wanting, 155.
for New Orleans Exposition, 59, 358.

Blackiston, Capt. T. W., 60.

from Alaska, 60.
Arizona, 60.
California, 69.
Dominica, 70.
India, 60.
Japan. 60, 71.
Mexico, 70.
in exhibition series, 59. ’
reserve series, 59, 152.
installed in cases, 150.
key to North American, 371.
mounted, 151.
nests and eggs obtained, 149.
new North American races of, 376.
North American game sent to New Orleans
152. :
proposed new list of, 150.
of Bermuda, :’40, 377.
National Museum, papers on, 152.
prey, diurnal, 373.
old and new generic names of, 366.
present state of, 152.
recommendations for department of, 153.
report upon, 143.

returned from London, 60.
secured in 1884, 44.
water, of North America, 346.
work upon, 59, 150, 151.
Bird-skins and alcoholic specimens, 143-149.
condition of, 152.
exchanged, 149.
lent, 149.
mounted, 59.
protected from insects, 152.
Bismuth ores, 272.
from Utah, 257.
Blackfeet mat and bowl. 116.
Blackfish hatching, 352.
Blackford, E. G., sent Brevoort fishes, 164.
crustaceans, 190.
430-pound halibut, 162.
steel-head trout from, 162.

INDEX.

Blackford, E. G., 36-pound pompano from, 163.

birds from, 71.
Blackmore Museum, mound-pipes in, 125.
Black Warrior Basin fishes collected, 176.
Blair, Albert, 268.
Blake collections of marine invertebrates, 139.
deep-sea mollusks studied, 180.
Blake, J. H., 198.
Blankets of Northwestern coast, 299.
Blatta orientalis ? from California, 187.
Blende, galena, and marcasite crystals, 243.
Blight, 1. O., favors from, 267.
Blissus leucopterus, 360.
Blossburg Coal Company presented drill, 264.
Boas, Dr. Franz, 112, 279.
on Cumberland Gulf throwing-
stick, 282. —
Boat and vessel models installed, 97.
repaired by Captain Col-
lins, 97.
building material obtained, 86.
fittings, 86, 96, 98.
models and equipments collected, 85.
from Aden, 89.
China, 90.
Tendon Fisheries Exhibition,
97.
Madras, 89.
the Maldives, 89.
Boats collected, 1882 to 188%, 85.
vessels, &c., now exhibited, 98.
Bobtail mill gold collection, 241, 274.
extraction shown, 249.
Bogosloff Island rocks and volcanic ashes, 69, 230
Bohuslan cod-fishing vessel, 104.
Bolles, Lieut. I’. Dix, collections from, 57.
Thlinket objects from, 114.
Bolts, nuts, and washers, 239.
Bombay fishing-boat model, 88.
Bombax malabaricum, dug-out from, 87.
Bones, fossil, in Florida, 386.
Booth, A., Columbia River shad from, 162.
Borassus flabelliformis, fishing dug-out from, $7.
Boston custom-house fibers, 81.
foreizn exhibition, accessions from, 67.
Brazil foods from, 107.
Ceylonese collection
from, 72.
collections from, 71.
Guatemala foods from,
107.
Hawaiian foods, &c.,
from, 72, 107.
San Salvador products
from, 107.
sent foreign minerals,
240.
textiles from, 80.
Museum of Art, 10.
Society of Natural History, 10.
Botany, department of, 17, 65, 220.
of Bermuda, 340, 376.
Bot-flies in a turtle, 367.
Bottle covered with basketry, 299.
Bottle-nosed dolphin obtained, 132.
Bow appliances for twisting sinew, 312.
lashings described, 310, 311.
hitches in, 311.
Bowker, Torrey & Co., contributors, 66.
sent onyx, 231.
Bowlder, photograph of, 229.
Bows, backing of, at various points, 310.
broad and flat with bent end, 309.
with straight end, 309.
Eskimo, a study of, 307.
of Yukon delta described, 308.
paper on, meationed, 57.
replaced by fire-arms, 315.
sinew backing of, 307, 308.
Bow-string twisters, 316.
Boxes for small specimens, 26.
Boyle, C. B., 215.
Boyne corracle for fishing, 90, 91.
Brachiopods, Carboniferous, received, 212,
Devonian, obtained, 210, 213.
recent work on, 350.
Bradford silks, 80.

~~ ——

res eS

a al i a i i

“ye.

INDEX.

Brady, Prof.G.S., Copepods from, 193.
exchanges from, 196.

Brass collection, 276.

manutactures, 241.
Brayton, Dr. A. W., collected fishes, 170, 171.
Brazil foods obtained. 107.

implements, 118.

plants and animals, 71.
Brazos Basin fisbes collected, 178.
Bread-trays, coiled and decorated, 304.
Breed, George F., sent marbles, 231.
Bretz, George M., made mining photographs, 265,

267.
Brevoort fishes identified, 164.
Brewer mine gold collection, 239.
Brewer, Thomas Mayo, 3846, 371.
Bristol Bay birds, 69.
Eskimo bow, 309. be
ethnologica, 112, 113.
° throwing-stick, 287.
British America mammals collected, 150.
Columbia shells obtained, 184.
war canoe, 106.
crustacea exchange, 196.
Guiana baskets, 306.
war club, 118.
invertebrates obtained, 193.
mollusks coming, 181.
Museum, birds from, 60.
collections from, 71.
presented bats, 130.
Broadhead, G. C., sent Stromatopora, 204.
Brookside colliery anthracites, 262.
Brook trout, paper on, 347.
Brown, James Temple, assisted Mr. Dewey, 276.
made coal collections,
261.
mining collection of, 242.
on whale fishery, 341.
Brown, J. H.,225.
Brown, P. R., Blackfeet mat and bow! from, 116.
Brown, 8. C., 19. .
Bruner, H. L., 198. °
Brush-Swan Company lighting the Museun, 34, 55.
Brussels carpets, 81, 82, 83.
Buchsbaum, Mr., Chinese hairless dog from, 132.
Buckwheattield mine zine ore, 273.
Builders’ models of fishing vessels, 86, 98.
vessels desired, 99.
Building and ornamental stones and rocks, 66, 234,
235, 342, 355.
stone collection, 67, 233, 235.
stones, 227, 228, 229, 230.
and quarry industry, 351.
from Mr. Batchen, 66, 231.
photographed, 46.
Buildings and labor, 19.
ee and public comfort, 35.
photographed, 46.
Bulkley, E. B., minerals from, 222.
Bulletin No. 25, U.S. National Museum, 340, 353.
27, U.S. National Museum, 340, 352.
Bulletins of National Museum, 340.
published in 1884, 31.
Bullion, base, refining series, 252.
an epiglottis, character and function of,
Burden Iron Company, horseshoes, 240.
Burean of Ethnology antiquities, 126.
contributions from, 58.
pottery, 70, 121.
Navigation sent bottom samples, 192.
Burns, Frank, 215.
re 2 cooperi and harlani, possibly identical,
7

Buthus sp. from California, 186. °
Butler University aided to collect fishes, 170.

C.

Cable Flax Mills, specimens from, 80.
manilla, for fishing vessels, 95. *

Calamus providens, note on, 375.

review of, 375.

Calcareous incrustations, 229, 230.

Calcopyrite ore, copper from, 256.

Calcutta jute butts in gunny cloth, 80.

Calico printing ilfastrations, 81, 82.

S. Mis. 33, pt. 2——25

433

California and Oregon fishes collected, 171.
antimony ores, 253.
antiquities received, 123, 124.
birds received, 60.
collections, 69.
Indian baskets, 299. 300.
insects from Mr. Orcutt, 186.
Professor Stearns, 186.
obtained, 185.
mammals obtained, 69, 130.
marbles, 231.
Mesozoic and Cenozoic fossils, 215.
onyx, 228.
pinnipeds obtained, 131.
rocks, 229.
salmon, mounted, 44.
seals, sea lions, and sea elephants, 70.
shell-heap, specimens exhibited, 125.
shells from Professor Stearns, 184.
Call, R. E., 179.
mollusks from, 63.
reptiles from, 157.
work of, 62.
Calvin Prof. Samuel, fossils from, 216.
Cambarus and Astacus studied, 371.

_ new species in National Museum, 371.
Cambrian fannas of North America, 368.
Cambridge University Zoological Museum pre-

sented cetacea, 132.
Cane in basketry, 305.
Canoes for fishing, 87.
Cape Lisburne coal, 69.
Nome throwing-stick, 285.
Romanzoff Eskimo bow, 309.
Vancouver throwing-stick, 286.
Capture of animals, devices for, 51.
Caranx ruber and bartholomzi, note on, 375.
Carbon dioxide in lecture hall, 38, 39, 40.
Carboniferous bracbiopods obtained, 212.
cephalopods obtained, 211.
corals, 206.
crustaceans obtained, 212.
fossil plants, 220.
fossils exchanged, 203.
from California, 204.
U. S. Geological Sur-
vey, 203.
received, 64, 205.
gasteropods obtained, 212.
lamellibranchiates received, 212.
Peecilopoda received, 212.
pteropods received, 212.
pulmonifera received, 212.
speciesof the White Pine shale, 206.
upper, limestone fauna, 207.
Cardinal Grosbeak, earliest name of, 366.
Cardiomorpha Missouriensis, 206.
Cariacus columbianus, variations in antlers of,
130.
Caribbean deep-sea mollusks studied, 180.
sea invertebrates obtained, 63, 189.
mollusea studied, 62.
work of the Albatross, 197.
Carnadvas ancient lamps, 118.
Caznegie Brothers steel exhibit, 245.
Carnivora mounted in 1884, 42.
secured in 1884, 44.
Carp destroyed by musk-rat, 371.
eat fishes, 364.
from brackish water, 164.
Susquehanna River, 163.
ponds telephone service, 37.
vivarium, 72.
reared in alkali water, 164.
regeneration of scales of, 364.
Carpenter mollusks, 181.
Carpet manufacture illustrations, 80, 82.
Carpets from Bigelow Carpet Company, 82.
Lowell Manufacturing Company, 82.
specimens of, 80.
tapestry Brussels, 81.
Carpodectes, new, from Costa Rica, 358.
Carrack, 16th century, sketch of, 91.
Carroll, Mr., 266.
Carter, C. P., & Co., vessel models from, 94.
Cash mines tin, 252.
Cashmere, bark, obtained surface specimens, 192.

| Cassava strainers, 306.
434

Cassimeres, samples of, 82.
Cassiterite collections, 271.
trom Montana, 252.
in Maine, 252.
New Hampshire, 252.
the Museum, 252.
localities, 252.
Casts made for expositions, 45.
in 1884, 45.
of fish and reptiles, 47.
Catamaran for fishing, 88, 90.
Catesby’s fishes identified, 374. .
Catherina Archipelago, cave matting, 292.
Catlin throwing-stick, 289. ‘
Catostomus labiatus received, 162.
Caulinites and Zamiostiobius, 369.
Cedar for baskets, 297.
Keys fishes of Professor Jordan, 375.
mats of the Bilhoolas, 297.
Cenozoic invertebrate fossils, catalogue of, 65.
Census, Tenth, iron ores, 257, 272.
Centennial collection of lead, 254.
shells, 181.
collections in metallurgy, &e., 239.
Exhibition, foreign material derived
from, 53.
rocks, &¢., 237, 238.
water craft, 105.
Central America exploration, 70.
fishes collected, 172.
American basketry like South American,
306

bats presented, 130.
pottery needed, 122.
and South American basketry, 306.
mine copper, 254.
Park, New York, Menagerie sent mam-
mals, 131.
Cephalorhynchus Heavisidei, cast of head, 132.
Cephalopoda, Carboniferous, obtained, 212,
Devonian, obtained, 211, 214.
Ceppkus, remarks on species of, 366.
Cetacea from Cambridge University Museum, 132.
Royal College of Surgeons, 132.
in National Museum, 135.
studied by F. W. True, 135.
typical species studied, 135.
Cetaceans and seals received, 59, 131.
Ceylon collections received, 72.
graphite, 240.

Cheetodipterus faber from Newport, 163.

Chain stitch in cedar mat, 298

Challenger copepods received, 193.

exploring vovage, 352.

Chamberlin, Prof. T. C., lecture by, 34.

Chambers, R. C., assisted to collect ores, 251.

Chamide, aberrant forms of, 370.

Charleston fishes, paper on, 172.

Chase, Lieut. George F., Gila monster from, 157.

Chattahoochee Basin fishes collected, 175.

Chatard, Dr., African weapons from, 119.

Chatard, Thomas Marean, 371.

assisted with chemist’s
report, 348.

chemical work of, 224.

collected dunite, 231.

contribution from, 66.

field work of, 223.

Chaumont, Dr., quoted, 40.

Chebacco boat model, 86.

Checker-weaving in basket-work, 297.

Cheiroptera mounted in 1884, 42.

secured in 1884, 44,
Cheltenham Smelting and Refining Works col-
lection, 244, 251, 275.

Chemical analyses made by Professor Clarke, 72.
analysis in lecture room, 38, 39, 40.
examination, 351.
laboratory abandoned, 72.

Chemistry, 72.

elements of, 348.
work of Washington Laboratory, 348.
Cherokee Zine Works, collection from, 243, 259.
Chesapeake Bay exploration, 348.
fishes, 347.

Cheshire salt obtained, 107.

Chiasmodus from Brown’s Bank, 163.

Chihalis Indian basketry, 297. ~

A

INDEX.

Chili, collections from, 71.
stone bead, 123.
Chilkaht Indian basket-work, 295,
China boat models, 90.
boats obtained, 106.
bricks from Great Wall, 227.
fossiliferous limestones from, 228.
joss-stick powder from, 118.
materia medica of, 75.
rain-coat, 118.
shells from, 183.
Chinch-bug, 363.
Chippewa grave deposits, 116.
Chiriqui pottery, 71.
vases, 121.
bought, 58.
Chirolophus polyactocephalus obtained, 164.
Chiroptera lent to Dr. Allen, 136.
Chiton plates, 123.
Chittagong dug-out canoe, 88.
Chlamydoconcha, investigation of, 182.
Orcutti, 184, 350.
Chloridizing base orcs, illustrations of, 251.
roasting of silver ores, 240.
Choctaw Indian basketry, 305.
Chrysomitris or spinus ?, 366.
Chukchis implements and ornaments, 112.
Cimabue, paintings of, 56.
Cincinnati Industrial Exposition, 50.
Congressional
action on, 48.
exhibit, 36, 50,
51

gems at, 66, 222.
Government
building, 50.
work, 47.

~

Cinnabar, 271.
Circulars issued in 1884, 31.
Claghorn, J. Raymond, favors from, 267.
sent map of coal basin, 265.
Clallam basket of commerce, 299.
Indian fish-trap style of basket, 298.
twilled basketry, 299.
Clark, A. Howard, 16, 19.
~ on fishery products, 342.
papers of, 348.
Clark, Col. Edward, presented marble, 236.
Clark, W. M., antiquities from, 126.
sent Astylospongia premorsa, 204,
Tennessce antiquities from, 125,
Clarke, Dr. F. W., 17.
aided in procuring cetacea, 132.
analyses and papers of, 72, 224.
collected glacial polished mica,
234.
field work of, 223.
lecture by, 34.
on gemsand preciouss tones, 342,
papers of, 348.
polished mica from, 66.
report of, 221.
work of, 66.
and T. M. Chatard, Mineralog-
ical Notes of, 224.
Classification of illustrations of human culture, 14.
natural history collections, 14.
systematic and geographical, 15.
Clayton, Prof. J. E., collected antimony ores, 253,
bismuth ores, 257.
Utah silver ores from, 250.
Clay from the sea bottom, 199.
Clements, George S., assisted to coliect coal, 267.
Clemmer, B. A., Apache necklace from, 116.
Clipper brig model, 94.
Clisiocampa egg-mass received, 187.
Clove: hay worm from Virginia, 185.
Clymenia Doris, 324.
Coal and associates from West Virginia, 262.
Long Valley, 266.
sand rock from Mine Hill, 262.
&c., from Richmond coal-fields, 267.
anthracite, obtained, 263.
auger obtained, 264.
breaker pictures obtained, 265, 266.
collections, 261, 272.
of James Temple Brown, 261,
exhibited at New Orleans, 52.

INDEX.

Coal field collections, 268.
fields, chart of, 266.
from Antrim mines, 243.
Arnot mine, 243.
Long Valley mines, 243.
Loyalsock mine, 243.
haulage apparatus photograph, 265.
mine interiors photographed, 272, 367.
materials and tools, 261, 26.
mining collection, 243.
illustrated, 52.
industry studied, 261.
pictures, 264.
scenes at Long Valley, 266.
ornaments made by miners, 263.
photographs, 272.
plane, Mahanoy, photographed, 265.
region charts obtained, 265,
sections and statistics, 266.
shaft sinking illustration, 266.
Valley mine coal, &c., 262.
washing machinery pictures, 266,
Coals, bituminous, of Virginia, 262.
examined, 245.
from Illinois, 267.
semi-bituminous, 262.
Coast Survey collections at Kodiak, 69.
Cobalt and nickel collections, 253, 257.
Cochrane, A. B., sent coal-fields chart, 266.
Coddling-moth, 363.
Codfish stomach contents, 349.
Cod-tfishing schooner models, 86. .
vessel, model of Swedish, 103, 104.
Cod gill-net fisheries, 349.
Coir fiber rain-coat, 118.
Coke and anthracite coal in fuel series, 257.
applications, 257.
collection, 242, 262, 276.
for domestic use, 262.
forty-eight and seventy-two hour, 262.
from West Virginia, 262.
Coking coal and coke, 242.
Coleoptera sent for determination, 185.
Collins, Capt. J. W., 16,17.
designed fishing schooner,
03

fog-alarm of, 95.
models prepared by, 55, 56.
nite vessels and boats,
papers of, 348.
repaired models, 97.
report of, 85.
Collinsville coal region collection, 243.
Colman, B., minerals from, 222.
Colombia Chiriqni vases, 121.
Color sketches of vessels, 85.
Colorado Basin fishes collected, 178.
Coal and Ivon Company, steel rails, &c.,
from, 239.
insects received, 186.
ores, 240.
catalogued, 245.
potato-beetle, 363.
smelter copper ores, 241. -
Columbia Basin fishes collected, 178.
River shad, 162.
Columbus’s ships, color sketches of, 91.
Colyer, Vincent, throwing-stick from, 289.
Commander Islands collections, 69.
contributions to history of,
366.
mollusea, 184, 350.
Comparative anatomy, 17, 18.
department of, 62, 137.
Compsothlypis, synon, my of, 266.
Comstock lode, illustrations of geology, 234.
Concretion, phosphatic, 229.
Concretions exhibited, 236.
Cones group of shells revised, 180.
Conger from D. Kelleher, 162.
Conglomerate mines copper, 254, 255, 270.
Congressional grants for expositions, 48.
- Conklin, W. A., sent mammals, 131.
reptiles, 158.
Contopus depressirostris, 376.
Cook, Captain, on throwing-sticks, 287, 288.
Cook's Inlet ethnologica, 113,

435

Coot, new, from West Indies, 358.
Cope, Prot. IE. D., on relations of Delphinus pla-
viodon, 823.
studying reptiles, 157.
Copeland, H. E., collected Indiana fishes, 170.
Copenhagen Museum, collections from, 71.
Copepoda, from Great Britain, 193.
parasitic, list of, 355,
Copper and silver collection from Montana, 240.
collections, 256, 271.
concentration series, 255.
extraction from amygdaloid ore, 255,
forms obtained, 221.
free, for New Orleans, 270.
in masses, 254.
from amygdaloid mines, 270.
calcopyrite ore, 256.
Canadian pyrite, 239.
congiomerate mines, 254, 270.
Lake Superior region for New Or-
leans, 270.
sulphureted ores, 241.
in commercial forms, 241.
mass, 254.
mining collections, 243.
of amygdaloid mines, 254.
ores, 271, 272.
from Centennial Exhibition, 254.
Delaware Mine, 255.
Lake Superior region, 239.
Montana, 256.
pig, refining, 275.
refining by smelting slags, 255.
refining native, 241.
rolling series, 275.
slags, smelting cqllection, 244.
smelting and retining collections, 245, 256,
275.
in Arizona, 256.
uses illustrated, 256.
Copperhead bite, poisoning from, 370.
Coptocycla clavata? from Delaware, 186.
Coral, fossil, from Iowa, 229.
Corals and sponges for New Orleans Exposition,
63.
: from fishing grounds, 190,
Carboniferous, 206.
Devonian, 206.
exhibited, 202.
from Florida and Dry Tortugas, 191.
on Grand Banks, 349.
Silurian, 206.
Cordage of jute, 80.
Cordiceps on Lucanid larva, 186.
Corniferous limestone fossils obtained, 204.
Corraclés, Ivish and Scotch, 90, 91.
Corson, Robert, Luray specimens from, 236.
Corundum crystals received, 221.
emery and quartz, 242,
fields of North Carolina visited, 223.
Corwin, steamer, collected Alaskan invertebrates,
192.
Corydalus cornutus from North Carolina, 186,
Costa Rica birds, 357.
collections from Mr. Zeledon, 71.
fishes collected, 173.
mammals obtained, 130.
reptiles obtained, 158.
Costume collection typical, 55.
Cotton fabries from England, 80.
gin model, &3.
goods from Pacific Mills, 82.
ship models, 56, 94.
worm, 363.
yarn manufacture illustrations. 81, 82.
Coues, Elliott, Key to North American Birds, 371.
Coues’s remarks on fiber criticised, 327.
Cowen & Bliss, zine collection, 258.
Cox, L. A., fossils from, 203.
Hon. 8. 8., address by, 35.
William V., 19, 37.
Cragin, F. W., bats lent to, 136.
maminals lent to, 137.
Crandell, C. P., 36.
Crawford, Dr. M. 11., sent Terra del Fuego inver-
tebrates, 192. '
William, shells from, 71.
Cray-fishes in the collection, 201,
436

Cray-fisbes returned, 201.
Crescent mines gas coal, 243.
Crescent Steel Works collection, 258, 278.
Cretaceous fossil plants, 220.
Crinoids from the Keokuk limestone, 203.
obtained by the Albatross, 190.
Cristatella repens received, 193.
Cross, Whitman, sent minerals, 223.
Crossbill, red, breeding of, 357.
Crosse & Blackwell, canned goods, &e., 107.
Crotalus lepidus, borrowed, 158.
Crown Point Furnace iron collection, 275.
Crucible steel collections, 241, 258, 275.
Crucibles, graphite, 240.
Crustacea and corals, mounted, 194.
echinoderms received, 64.
mollusca collected, 63.
Carboniferous, obtained, 212.
decapod, from Fish Commission, 378.
of the Albatross, 378.
Devonian, obtained, 211.
exchanged, 196.
exhibited, 202.
from Honda and Dry Tortugas, 191,
192.
Pacific Ocean, 192.
Vineyard Sound, 190.
mounted, 353,
new genera and species of, 378, 379.
of Albatross, 378.
returned by Professor Smith, 190.
sent to Professor Smith, 197.
stalk-eyed, obtained, 193.
studied by Professor Smith, 200,
supplied to American students, 196.
wornis, &¢., at London Fisheries Ex
hibition, 341.
Cryptochiton Stelleri, plates of, 123.
Ctenolabrus adspersus, skin-parasite of, 365.
Cuba, fishes from, 61, 70, 163.
Cumberland Basin, fishes collected, 173, 176, 177.
Gap, fishes taken, 170.
Gulf bows typical, 308
throwing-stick, 282.
Cuniculus torquatus obtained, 130.
Cunner, skin-parasite of, 365. 5
Curagoa birds, 70,
fishes obtuined, 163.
Curators embarrassed by past accumulations, 23.
reports, 53, 73.
Curragh (fishing boat) from Treland, 90.
Curtis, J. S.. minerals ftom, 223.
Cushing, F. H., Assinaboine moccasins from, 116.
Navajo fetiches from, 116.
Taos fetich from, 116. +
John N., vessel models from, 93, 94.
Cuvier, F., 333, 334.
Cuvier’s Prodelphinus dubius, 323.
Cymbilanus lineatus fasciatus, 376.
Cyprinidx, new species of, 375.
Cyprinus carpio from alkali water, 164.
brackish water, 164.
Georgia, 162.
Susquehanna River, 163.

D.
Dago, Capt. J. A., Iceland sponge and corals from,
190

Dakota antiquities received, 124.
group fossil plants, 220.
Dall, Rev. C. H. A., India ‘‘ilalls” from, 108.

fibers from, 72.
Dall, W. H., 17, 279.
collected Aleut baskets, 292.
Nunivak throwing-sticks,
286.
describes Aleut matting from caves,
292.
ented work on prehistoric America,
ol.
Eskimo bows from, 307.
honorary curator, 62.
Mesozoic fossils from, 370.
mollusk collections of, 181.
Nunivak bow from, 310.
on Eskimo bows, 308.
divisions, 314.

INDEX.

Dall, W. H., paleontologist for Quaternary inver--
tebrates, 179.
papers of, 350.
report of, 179.
researches of, 181.
ribbon seal from, 368. _
throwing-sticks from, 289.
Yukon delta bow from, 312.
Dalls from India, 108. .
Daniels, Capt. John, sent silver and copper, 248,
250. :
Dawis Company pyrite, 260.
Davis, Dr. 1. H., mound-pipe molds from, 125.
Davis, E. F. C., assisted to collect coul, 267.
sent indicator-cards illustrations,
266.
Davis, H. C., favors from, 267.
Day, Surgeon-Gencral Francis, fishing boats from,
87.

Decapod crustacea, 378.

Decatur (screw steam packet) model, 93.

Dee corracle for fishing, 90.

Deep-sea dredging, American initiative in, 356.
investigation, American appliances for,

356.
Deer Creek coal-field, 368.
Deilephila lineata from Nevada, 186,
Delaines from Pacific Mills, 82.
Delaware mine copper ores, 243, 255.
Del Oro Works gold collection, 275,
Delphinide, skulls of, presented, 132.
taxonomy of, 321.
Delphinus Boryi, 322.
(Cephalorhynchus) Doris, 323.
delphis, 318, 319, 320, 324.
Doris, 323.
maculatus, 322.
Pernetyi, 322.
plagiodon, 324.
of Cope, 323.
punctatus, 322.
beak and teeth, 323.
Delta Jute and Fiber Company, 80.
Dendrocopus purus from Kamtchatka, 366.
Dennison Manufacturing Company exhibit, 47.
Desloge Works lead series, 253.
Desmarest’s spotted dolphins, 322.
Devonian actinozoa received, 213.
brachiopods obtained, 210, 213.
cephalopods obtained, 211, 214.
corals, 206.
crustaceans received, 211.
echinoderms received, 213.
fauna of Nevada, 206.
summary of, 206.
fossils from E. B. Knapp, 204.
Hamilton group, 213.
U.S.Geological Survey, 203.
received, 64, 210.
sent in exchange, 203.
gasteropods reccived, 211, 213.
lamellibranchiates received, 210, 213.
Peecilopoda received, 211, 214.
Polyzoa received, 213.
pteropods received, 211, 213, 214.
Upper and Lower Carboniferous com-
mingling, 207.
Devonshire laces, 80.
Dewey, Fred. P., 17.
collected coke samples, 262.
copper, 256.
in Ontario mine, 251.
minerals, 221, 240, 241.
ores at Butte, 251.
pig-copper series, 256.
smelting series, 249.
examined New Orleaus ores,
&e., 246.
letters and reports of, 245.
native silver from, 250.
on mineral resources, 343.
papers of, 246, 351.
report of, 239.
: work of, 67. wrt
Diabase from Michigan, 229.
Diamond drill core, 229.
illustrations, 269.
specimens, 242.

INDEX.

Diamond patterns in hat ornamentation, 296.
Diapheromera femorata from Massachusetts, 187.
Dicotyledons, Mesozoic, 368.

Diller, J. S., andesite and pumice from, 231,

rocks from, 66.

Dimond & Hall, contributors, 66.

Dimond, J., sent California marbles, 231.

Diomede Island spear, 112.

Dipodomys Phillipsii Ordii bought, 180,

Director's reception, 55.

Discina Lodensis, 206.

* Newberryi, 207.
Disco Island Eskimo objects, 111.
District of Columbia, land and fresh-water shells
from, 183. .

Dobson, Surgeon-Major, exchanged bats, &e., 131.

insectivores and shrews
sent to, 135.

mammals lent to, 137.
sent reptiles, 158.

Dodge, Ensign O. G.. 225.

Dolomite cube, 229.

Dolphin, bottle-nosed, secured, 132.
described from a distance, 322.
Manufacturing Company, 81.
spotted, from Florida, 317.

in Public Museum
pool, 322.

Dolphins’ skulls variable, 321.

Domestic animals mounted, 132.
economy and customs of the masses, 13.

Dominica collections, 70.

Donaidson, Thomas, work of, 67.

Donga (fishing boat) from Bengal, 87.

Donors, number of, 22.

Dos Pueblos antiquities exhibited, 126.

obtained, 123.

Dove (brig) model, 94.

Dredging appliances for deep sea, 356.

Dredgings by the Albatross, 199.

Dresden Museum, collections from, 71.

Dresel, H. G., assisted on fishes, 169.

on Jamaica fishes, 347.
papers of, 351.
sent to Long Island, 165.

Drills obtained, 264.

Drug analysis urged, 77.

Drug-yielding plants illustrated, 75.

Drugs, duplicate, 76.

obtained by foreign exchanges, 76.
received, 75.

Dry Tortugas invertebrates from Dr. Palmer, 191.

Ducks, domesticated hybrid, 378.

Dugés, Prot. Alfred, collections from, 70.

Dug-out canoe from Chittagong, 88.
tishing canoe, African, 90.
from Bengal, 87.

tar palm tree, 87.
war-canoe from British Columbia, 106.

Dug-outs for fishing, 87.

Duguo, Capt. John, deal-fish from, 163.

Dunite from North Carolina, 228, 231.

Duplicates and exchanges, 19, 30.

increased distribution
of, 30

of Liver-

selected, 24.
Dutch fishing craft from Berlin, 106.
Dutten, Capt. C. E., lecture by, 34.
Dye, William H., collected fishes, 173.

i.

Eagle mine coal and associates, 262.
Earll, R. Edward, 16, 18, 19, 55.
Florida fishes from, 374.
on fish-capture apparatus, 342.
fish-cultural exhibit, 342.
preliminary report by, 48.
returns from London, 52.
writings of, 352.
Earthen vessels acquired, 121.
East Indian boat models, 89.
fishing boats and models, 87.
musical instruments, 72.
Eastman, Prof. J. R., lent meteorite, 223.
Echini elaborated, 200.
especially attended to, 194.
studied by Mr. Rathbun, 197.

437

Echinodermata, Devonian, obtained, 213.
Echinoderms and crustaceans received, 64.
from Bergen’s Museum, 193,
Florida, 192.
and Dry Tortugas, 191.
the Pacific, 192.
returned by Professor Verrill, 190.
studied by Professor Verrill, 200.

Economic geology collection for New Orleans, 269.

Edentata mounted in 1884, 43.

Edinburgh gold medal for insect collection, 63.
Maseum, Jacquard weaving from, 80.
University promises British inverte-

brates, 196.
Educational museum defined, 11.
origin of, 10.
museums in Europe, 10.
United S tates, 10.

Edwards, V.N., fish journal of, 165.

marine invertebrates from, 190.

Egyptian onyx, 231.

obtained, 227.
Electric light for photography, 46.
service, 19, 36.

Elk antlers, mounted, 44.

Mountains, Colorado, model, 234.

Ellangowan colliery ornaments, 263.

Elliott, H. W., drawing by, 279.

on Aileut throwing-sticks, 288.
papers of, 136, 371.
Ellis, T.S., Venus mercenaria pearl from, 182.
Elymus arenarius, 292.
for Aileut mats, 292.
mollis, 292.
Sibiricus, 292.
straw in baskets, 295.

Embryologieal research, 72.

Embryonic materials, preservation of, 365.

Emeric, H. F., Guaymas fishes from, 374.

Emerton, J. H.. drew crustaceans, 378.

Emery cloth collection, 268.

Emmons, S. F., collected Colorado rocks, 230.

Enclimatoceras, on the genus, 370.

Engineer Corps collections, 6.

England, flint from, 229.

English cottons and worsteds, 80.

fabrics, specimens of, 82.

laces, 80.

Royal College of Surgeons presented ce-
tacea, 132.

silk fabrics, 80.

| English, Harry, fibers mounted by, 83.

Ensigns instructed in photography, 46.
trained in Museum, 33.
Enterprise, U.S.S., bottom samples, 192.
Entomological collections, 63.
Society meetings, 35.
Entomology, illustrations of economic, 187.
Entries in registers, 24.
Epeira insularis from llinois, 187.
Ephemerid larva from Texas, 185.
Epinephelas and related genera, 375.
nigritnus from Block Island, 162.
Erigenia bulb obtained, 187.
Erignathus, 332.
Eristalis larva from Pennsylvania, 186.
Eschscholtz Bay throwing-stick, 244.
Eskimo basket-needle, 294,
basketry, coiled, 293.
baskets, 298.
bow, Arctic type, 310.
development of sinew backing for,
314.
evolution of, 314.
from Point Barrow, 310.
ot Mackenzie region, 310.
reindeer antler, 308.
structure, 312.
: bows, a study of, 307.
backing of, 310.
discussed, 307. ’
in the Museum, 307.
of different types, where used, 314.
oak, $14.
Point Barrow, 307.
three types, 308.
southern type, 808, 309,
western types, 808, 313,
438

Eskimo collections from Alaska, 57.
dog from Greely Relief Expedition, 132.
hitches on bows, spears, &c., 311.
house model, 57.
illustrations at Cincinnati, 50.
New Orleans, 51.
from Ungava, 57.
implements and ornaments, 112.
from Bristol Bay, 112, 113.
Norton Sound, 112.
objects from Greenland, 111.
Point Barrow, 111, 112.
specimens from Point Barrow, 57.
throwing-stick described, 279.
simplest in central area,
283.
Esperanza Marble Company, gifts from, 66, 231.
Essex model of fishing schooner, 103.
Estimates from dealers, 37.
Etheostomin, new forms of. 173.
Ethnologica from Costa Rica, 71.
Ethnological accessions, 57, 110.
geographically arranged,
oti

collection at New Orleans, 51.
exhibits at expositions, 57.
guide-book recommended, 110.
material, classified report of, 110.
gaps in, 111.
nomenclature of, 110.
preservation of, 110.
Museum exhibits, 13.
objects, foreign, 53.
specimens available, 109.
received, 57, 120.
transferred, 36.
Ethnology, 16, 18.
antiquities from the Bureau of, 126.
Bureau of, 354.
department of, 56.
pottery from Bureau of, 121.
report on, 109.

Etka (fishing dug-out) from Bengal, 87.

Etta mine tin collection promised, 253.

Eumetopias Stelleri obtained, 131.

European bats and insectivores obtained, 131.
exchanges effected, 196.
invertebrates obtained, 64.
museum policy, 9.
shells from Mr. Jeffries, 71.

Eureka district paleontology, 64.

Eurypharyngide are what ?, 373.

Enrypharynx, note on, 373.

Evans, W. W., antiquities from, 123.

Evermann, B. W., collected fishes, 171.

Evolution of industries studied, 54.

objects, how shown, 54.

Exhibition, general rules for, 12.

series of specimens, 24, 25.
Exhibits for Cincinnati, 36.
Louisville, 36.
New Orleans, 36.

Exocetus volador described, 374.

Experimental physiology, 72.

Exploration and field work, 67.

Exposition packages shipped, 30.

work, 36, 47.
by the National Museum, 4.
Expositions, casts painted for, 47.
influence on museum growth, 47.

ite

Fagersta steel tests, 240.
Fairbanks, C., courtesies of, 83.
Fairhurst, A., Kentucky stone implements from,
124.
Falls of the Ohio, fishes from, 17¢.
Farallone Islands birds, 60.
seals, &e, 70.
shells received, 184,
Fasciola hepatica obtained, 193.

Faunal succession observed in Nevada fossils, 205.

Faxon, Walter, paper by, 371.

returned eray-fishes, 201.
Feather exhibit at Louisville, 49.
Feldspar quarries of Connecticut visited, 223.
Felidx repaired, 44.

INDEX.

Felis concolor from Lewis Sells, 130.
yaguarundi obtained, 130.
Fencker, Governor, birds’ eggs from, 60.
Fernald, C. I1., on collecting moths, 343.
paper by, 372.
Fern-leaf impressions received, 263.
Fiber, 326, 327, 328, 329, 330, 367.
generic characters of, 329.
zibethicus, 326, 327, 328, 330.
eats carp, 371.
Fibers, accessions to, 80.
animal, 79.
exhibited, 79.
from Boston custom-house, 81.
labelled, 79.
list of vegetable, 84.
mineral, 79.
photographed from microscope, 83.
position of, used in classification, 79.
provisionally classified, 80.
textile, classified, 79.
vegetable, 79.
Field sparrow, new, from New Mexico, 358.
Fiji weapons, 119.
Fillmore, John H., assisted Mr. Merrill, 234.
Fin-back whale skull obtained, 132.
Fire-alarm telegraph company connection, 37.
Vire-brick, 245.
Fish accessions, 161.
attended to, 165.
summary of, 161,
synopsis of, 161.
analyses at New Orleans, 51.
and reptile casts painted, 47.
capture apparatus, 342, 352.
casts at Cincinnati, 51.
New Orleans, 55.
collecting, Government aid for, 170.
collections of Jordan and others classified,
174.
collectors cautioned, 169.
Commission collections, 6.
cultural exhibit of U. 8S. Fish Commission,
342, 352.
culture aims and limitations, 352.
at New Orleans, 55.
exhibit at Louisville, 49.
New Orleans, 51.
shown by photographs, 50.
department, recommendations for, 169.
drawings examined, 164.
made, 61. :
of H. L. Todd, 165-168.
Miss Smith, 165.
embryos, forces determining survival of, 364.
guano analysis, 346.
Hawk collections of Florida invertebrates,

marine invertebrates,
190. :

exploration, 348.

Gulf Stream exploration, 380.
ladders shown at New Orleans, 51.
migrations studied by the Albatross, 199.
notes, European, arranged, 164.
nutritive value of, 346.
parasites from Vineyard Sound, 190.
series work, 165.
skeletons, storage of, 169.
trap style of basket, 297, 298.

Fisher, William J., Alaskan collections from, 69.
Bristol Bay ethnologica from,
113.
collections from, 57.
Katmai objects from, 113.
Kenai objects from, 113.
Kodiak ethnologica from, 113.
mollusk collections of, 181.
throwing-sticks from, 289.
Fisheries collection, catalogue of, 52.
completeness of, 52.
department at New Orleans, 55.
exhibit at Louisville, 49.
gallery opened, 52.
section, 16.
installed, 55.
opening, 36.
report, 55.

INDEX, 439

Fishermen, safety for, 349. Flint, Dr. James M., 75.
Fisbery material described, 98. Flint from England, 229.
pictures at New Orleans, 55. Flora, fossil, of the globe, 369.
products and apparatus, 348. Florida antiquities obtained, 123.
at London Exhibition, 342. fishes, 163, 374.
representation by photographs, 50. notes on, 347, 353.
E treaties, 352. papers on, 173.
Fishes, 17. received, 61.
added during 1884, 61. fossil bones, 380.
and invertebrates,composition, &c., of, 346. frontier Indian objects, 116.
at, London Fisheries Exhibition, 841. invertebrates, 70, 190.
card catalogue of, 61. collected, 63, 191.
casts of, at New Orleans, 51. Keys, corals, &c., 70.
catalogued in 1884, 164. fishes, 173, 374.
collected by Professor Jordan, 61. manatee obtained, 132.
for U. 8S. Fish Commission and mollusks and shells received, 183.
National Museum, 169. muskrat, 325, 328.
department of, 61. fur, 328.
distribution of fresh-water, 171. general appearance of, 328.
duplicate to be disposed of, 169. muskrat-like mammal, 130.
embryography of osseous, 365. rattlesnake skin slippers, 116.
extralimital, 161. shells obtained, 134.
fresh-water, collected, 175-178. Flower, Professor, 320.
in the Museum, 61. aided in procuring cetacea, 132.
overhauled, 165. / on Prodelphinus dubius, 323.
from Cuba, 70. Fog alarm, Collins's, 95.
Florida, 374. alarms discussed, 95, 96.
Pensacola, 374. Foods, analyses of, 108.
White River, 372. &c., from San Salvador, 107.
marine, collected, 174, 175. arrangement of, 108.
morphology and evolution of tail of, 365. casts of, 45.
new, from U.S. Fish Commission, 61. duplicate, 108.
number of, 61, 168. from Crosse & Blackwell, 107.
of Switz City Swamp, 372. Guatemala, 107.
papers based on, 61. Jamaica, 107.
«received, 164. Kew Gardens, 107.
remarks on, 169. section, 16, 18.
report upon, 161. additions to, 107.
sent out, 164. arranging and labeling, 107.
transfer of, 61. remarks on, 108.
transferred from tanks, 168. report on, 107.
work upon, 61, 164. routine work in, 108.
Fishing apparatus, Belgian, 91. Foraminifera from the sea bottom, 199.
boat model from Bombay, 88. of the Albatross, 197.
models, 87. Forbes, R. B., 92.
Chinese, 90. Ford, 8. W., sent Microdiscus speciosus, 204,
from Northern Atlantic | Foreign gifts, 6.
coast, 87. government collections from Philadel-
boats, American, sketches of, 85. phia, 6.
East Indian, 87. Foreman, Dr. Edward, 17.
foreign, collected, 85. Fort Chimo collections, 68.
from Greece, 89. Klamath collections, 69.
types of, 97... : Fossil bones in Florida, 380.
canoe, models, 87. coral from Iowa, 229.
eraft photographs, 85. invertebrate types in Museum, 216.
dug-out from Africa, 90. plants, accessions to, 219.
from Chittagong, 88. adininistered upon, 220.
dug-outs. 87. catalogued, 219, 220.
junk model, Chinese, 90. collection of, 65.
etch model, 86. compared with living, 219.
prehistoric, 356. department of, 219.
work on, 59, 126. in reserve series, 220.
prodnets exported from San Francisco, stored, 220. ,
undetermined, 220.
schooner, Essex model, 103. Fossils, additions to Paleozoic invertebrate, 203.
Gertie Evelyn described, 100, Cambrian, 207.
101, 102. Carboniferous, 207.
model of ideal, 86. from California, 204.
New Era, 102, 103. Missouri, 205.
schooners changed in form, 100. Devonian, 204, 207.
sloop model, Belgian, 91. from Hamilton group, 213.
steamers, 97. exchanged, 203.
vessel, new model, 349. from California, 69.
vessels, 349. Cape Lisburne coal, 69.
and boats at London Exhibition, Mesozoic and Cenozoic, condition of, 216.
342. invertebrate, 64,
catalogue of, 97, 348. 215. ‘
builders’ models of, 86. invertebrate, in
evolution of, 86. the collection,
history and development of, 97. 217.
modified in form, 100. miscellaneous Paleozoic, received, 204.
rigging for, 97. of the Indiana rocks, 370.
Flax from New York, 80. Paleozoic invertebrate, 64, 203.
specimens from Barbour Flax Spinning recurrent species, 207.
Company, 81. Silurian, 207.
twines from New York, 80. stored in armory, 216.
Fleming, H. S., made collections, 244. Tox, Col. Lane, 279.

Flint, Dr. E., Nicaragua shirt from, 118. France, glaciated rock from, 228,

440

Franklinite ores, 259, 273.
¥raser’s Basin fishes collected, 178.
Frick coke ovens collection, 262, 276.
Frigate mackerel from Woed’s Holl, 163.
Fritzsche Brothers, drugs from, 75.
Fruits from Kew Gardens, 107.
Fulgurites from Florida, 230.

received, 227.
Fuller, O. P., sent minerals, 222.
Function as a basis of classification, 53.
Fur seals repaired, 41, 44.
Furnaces, drawings of, 244, 269.
Furs exhibited at Louisville, 49.
Fury and Hecla Straits throwing-stick, 283.

G.

Gaillard, M. Felix, exchange with, 126.
Galapagos Islands collections, 71.
shells obtained, 183.
Galbraith, Frank G., carp from, 163.
Galena mechanically concentrated, 253.
Galidia olivacea bought, 131.
Galla arrow, 119.
Gallagher, Joseph, assisted to collect ores, 251.
Galleon, Spanish, sketch of, 91.
Galveston fishes collected, 172.
Garman, Samuel, on Bermuda reptiles, 340.
paper by, 372.
Garnet rock from North Carolina, 228.
Garrett, Ensign, 33.
Gas coal series, 243.
Gasteropoda, Carboniferous, received, 212.
Devonian, obtained, 211, 213.
Gastropod mollusks from Jeffrey’s collection, 183.
Gastrostomus lateral line organs, 365.
side ovgan, 365.
Gaumer, Mr., Yucatan birds from, 71.
Gazzam, Mr., collected copper series, 256.
zine, 258.
collections of, 244.
made lead collections, 253.
smelting collection, 252, 259.
Geare, R. I., 18.

Gecks, A., Sioux medicine man’s pipe from, 116.
Gedney, A. G., 188.
Gems and ornamental stones at Cincinnati, 50.
bought, 65, 222.
collection, 342, 348.
shown at New Orleans, 65.
Genoa fishes obtained, 172.
Geographical and teleological classification, 14, 15.
Geological history of North America, 370.
maps, catalogue of, 354.
specimens from Professor Clarke, 228.
Survey additions to Museum, 94.
chemist makes analyses, 72.
collections, 6.
fossils, 64, 214.
rocks and tufas, 66.
surveys, rocks from, 238.
Geology, collections in economie, 67, 246, 270.
division of, 17, 65.
economic, at New Orleans, 52, 269.
metallurgy and economie, 67.
of Bermuda, 340, 377.
George, P. C., 215.
Georgia fishes collected, 170.
published, 170.
Geothlypis bairdi, 376.
Gere, J. E., Wisconsin, antiquities of, 123, 126.
German fishing craft from Berlin, 106.
Germania Works, smelting series, 252.
Germany, barking sand from, 227.
Gertie Evelyn (fishing schooner) described, 100.

model, 86.
Gesswein, F. W., gift by, 47.
Geyser cone from National Park, 229.
Gila monster received, 157.
Gilbert, Chas. H., assisted in collecting fishes, 169.
collected Charleston fishes, 172.
Mississippi Valley
fishes, 174.
Pacific fishes, 171.

Panama fishes, 172,
173.

Southern fishes, 170,
173.

INDEX.

Gilbert, Chas. H., collected Venetian fishes, 171.
I)linois, fishes from, 163.
papers by, 372, 375.
sent Alabama fishes, 164.
Gilbert, Grove K., leeture by, 33.
Gilbert & Russel], rocks and tufas from, 230.
Gill, Theodore Nicholas, papers of, 372.
and Ryder, John Adam,
papers by, 373.
Gill-nets in cod-fisheries, 349.
Gingham manufacture illustrated, 82.
Giotto, paintings of, 56.
Girard mines coal ornaments, 263.
Glacial drift in Montana and Dakota, 370.
Glasgow (ship) model, 94.
Glass, sand-eroded, 234.
Glendale Zine Works collection, 275.
Globigerina from sea bottom, 199.
Globiocephalus skulls common, 321.
Gloucester fisheries invertebrate collections, 190.
vent life and preperty in,
349.
notes on, 348.
Glover, Prof. Townend, plates published, 188.
pvpeoe use of plates of,
18

Glue exhibit at Louisville, 49.

Gnathypops mystacinus described, 374.

Gobiosoma histrio described, 374.

Godding, Dr. W. W., lecture by, 34.

Godman and Salvin, mammals lent to, 137.

Gold coin manufacture illustrations wanted, 250.
dust taken by Captain Marshall, 249.
extraction by amalgamation, 274.

fusion and electrolytic process,
275.

stamping and amalgamating,
74.

from mispickel, 274.
pyrite shown, 249.
shown by collection from Cali-
fornia, 249.
from copper by smelting, &c., 250.
gravel by hydraulic process, 239, 241.
pyrite, 241.
leaf collection, 241.
manufacture, 275.
collection, 250.
ores bought, 248.
placer, in Museum, 270.
specimens of, 67.
quartz, in Museum, 270.
specimens from Brewer mine, 249.
utilization of, 250.
Gooch, F. A., chemical work of, 224.
Goode, G. Brown, 16, 173.
and Bean, T. H., on Florida
fishes, 347.
Bermuda annelids from, 381.
collected Bermuda annelida,
340.
eee catalogues, edited by,
340.
J. Matthew Jones and, editors,

40.
on Florida fishes, 353.
representative to expositions,
3, 48.
writings of, 352.
Goodwin, A. P., collection from, 72.
New Guinea weapons from, 57. —
Papuan objects from, 119, 120.
Gosse on Monachus, 331, 332.
Gottland (Sweden) herring-tishing boat, 104.
Gould, Rev. J. L., ethnologica from, 69.
Gouverneur Marble Company, 67.
sent glacial pol-
ished marble,
234.
Government buildings photographed, 46.
Graham Island peccary tusk, 114.
Grallaria intermedia, 376.
Grammysia arcuata, 207.
Hannibalensis, 207.
Grand Banker models, 86.
Banks of Newfoundland, model, 234.
Cation of the Colorado, model, 234.
Granite, red hornblende, for building, 228.

INDEX.

Granite slab fiom New England Granite Com-
pany, 237.
Graphite crucibles, 240.
from Ceylon, 240.
Gray, William Bruce, 26.
Gray's genus Monachns, 331, 332.
spotted dolphin, 322.
Great Interior Basin basketry, 301.
Lake Basin fishes collected, 175.
South Bay collections, 165.
fishes collected, 61, 164.
Grebnitski, Governor, collections from, 69.
Grecian boat for net and seine fishing, 89.
Greece, fishing boats from, §9.
Greely, Licutenant, collections retained by, 68.
- Relief Expedition collecting outfit, 194.
collections, 68.
Eskimo dog from, 132.
objects from,

111.
natural history work, 68.
photographs, 46, 68.
physical observations,
68.

Greenland birds’ eggs, 60.
Eskimo objects, 111.
exploration, 68.
fishes, notes on, 351.
invertebrates obtained, 192.
rocks obtained, 227.
throwing-stick, 281.
peculiarity, 281.
Griflin, L. J., gifts from, 66.
sent stalagmite marble, 231.
Grim drill obtained, 264.
Grindstones, specimens of, 229.
Griotte marble received, 227.
Grouper, black, obtained, 162.
Grouse, new subspecies of willow, 366.
southern limit of, 357.
Guadalupe Basin fishes collected, 178.
Guanajuato collections, 70.
Guatemala birds, notes on, 358.
foods obtained, 107.
minerals, 240.
plants and animals, 71.
rocks and building stone, 227.
textiles, 80.
Guayamas bows and spears, 118.
Guaymas, Mexico, fishes, 374.
Guereza Riippeli bought, 131.
Guiana basket ornamentation with feathers, 306.
baskets little dyed, 306.
Gult of Mexico deep-sea mollusks studied, 180.
- orations of the Albatross, 197.
fishes collected, 172.
papers on, 172.
invertebrates obtained, 63, 189.
model of, 234.
mollusea stadied, 62.
spotted dolphins in, 317.
Gulf States, Mesozoic and Cenozoic fossils from,
215.
Gulf Stream, continental border beneath, 380.
* exploration, 380.
Gull, new Alaskan, 373.
Gundlachia meekiana obtained, 184.
Guuny cloth from jute butts, 80.
Ginther, Dr., casts obtained through, 132.
Gurney, John Henry, papers by, 373.
Guthrie, J. C., favors from, 267.

H.

Habia against Zamelodia, 366.
Hemulon, species of, 375.
Hague, Arnold, on Eureka district geology, 207.
Haida basket figured, 297.
basket ornamentation, 296.
basket work, 296.
hat ornamentation, 296.
house model, 57.
imitations of chinaware, 296.
mat and basket making, 297.
rag carpets, 296.
rain-hat twilling, 299.
trade baskets, 299.
twined basketry manufacture, 297.

441

Hair-cloth mannfacture collection, 82.
Half clipper model, 94.
Halibut abundant near Iceland, 349.
mounted, 44.
of 430 pounds obtained, 162.
off Norway, 349.
Hall, 279.
Hall, Charles E., & Co., sent California marbles,
231.
Hamilton formation fossils obtained, 203, 204, 213.
Hamilton, Marquis of, Irish ‘* Curragh" from, 90.
Hammond colliery anthracite coal, 263.
Hamy, Dr. E. T., exchange with, 126.
Hanifen, John E., & Co., worsted fabrics from, 81.
Harbor seal from Bering Island, 131.
Harding, M. B., sent Ulenus crassicanda, 204.
Harlow, C. A., 68.
Harp scal obtained, 131.
Harrell, J. Dock, sent striped bass, 163.
Harris Woolen Company collection, 82.
Harrison mining machine photographed, 265.
Hartshorn, E. W., flax from, 80.
Hartshorne, W. D., yarns selected by, 81.
Hastings & Co., gold Jeaf collection from, 250, 275.
Hatteras, spotted dolphins off, 317.
Havana fishes collected, 173.
Monachus tropicalis from, 331.
Hawaiian Government exhibit received, 72.
IsJands barking sand, 227.
building stone, 227.
mooks 228. As : pes
starches, jellies, grains, and fruits, 107.
Wat

Hawes, Dr. George
biography of, 246, 351.
musenm work of, 237.
studied quarrying indus-

tries, 237.

Hawley, E. H.. work of, 47.

Hayden, Ensign, 33.

Haydon, Walter, Hudson's Bay fishes from, 162.

Haydon, F. W., repeiles from, 158.

H. C. Frick Coke la collection, 262. +

Heald, T. H., presented zinc ores, 258.

Healy, Capt. M. A., Alaskan invertebrates from,

192

collections from, 69.
Heap, Gwynne Harris, paper by, 373.
Heape, C., British Guiana war club from, 118.
Fiji weapons from, 119.
Mangata adz from, 118.
New Caledonia club from, 119.
Polynesian weapons from, 57.
Helix albolabris from Connecticut, 184.
Heloderma suspectum obtained, 157.
Hemefobiid larva from Florida, 186.
Hemlock board that pierced a white oak, 228.
Hemp carpetings, 81.
rope and twine, 80.
Hemphill, Henry, invertebrates from, 63,70,181,191.
mollusks from, 63.
Hendley, J. P., 215.
Hendley, J. W., casts made by, 45.
Henshaw, H. W., collected antiquities, 123.
papers by, 373.
sent reptiles, 158.
Herendeen, E. P., 279.
throwing-stick from, 289.
Hering, C. J., exotic reptiles from, 61, 157.
Hermann on monk seal, 333.
Herpetology, manual of, in preparation, 158, 159.
report upon, 157.
Herring-fishing boat, Swedish, 104.
(frozen) trade, 349.
Herring, O., carpets from, 80.
Herrman, H., English fabrics from, 82.
Herrman, Sternbach & Co., 82.
Hesper (pilot-boat) model, 92.
Hesperomys lencopus, 325.
Hessian fly, 3€3.
Hewitt, G. C., 268.
Higgin, J. J., Cheshire salt from, 107,
Hill on Monachvs, 332.
| Hippus devised carracks, 91.
| Historical relics section, 16.
| Histriophoca as a subgenus, 368.
| Hitchcock, Romyn, 16, 18.
acting curator, 79, 107.
on textiles, 342.

449

Hitchcock, Romyn, paper of, 353.
studied fibers
cally, 83.
visited mills, 83.
work of, 55.
Hitchcock, Williams & Co., 80.
Hobbs, George S., 37.
Hodge, R.S., sent minerals, 222.
Hodgson, Thomas, sent photographs, 265.
Hoek, Dr. P. P. C., to examine barnacles, 190.
Holmes, W. H., 17, 18.
honorary curator, 58.
Mexican pottery from, 121.
Mohawk wampum belt from, 116.
papers by, 122.
presented rocks, 236.
report of, 121.
studies of, 122.
work of, 58.
Tlolothuroidea, new species of, 379.
Holsteinberg Eskimo objects, 111.
Hornbron and Jacquinot described a dolphin, 3238.
Hong Kutehin Indian baskets, 295.
Hopkins, G. N., Ponea ax from, 116.
Hoplopazrine, review of, 375.
Horan, Henry, at New Orleans Exposition, 52.
report of, 35.

microscopi-

superintendent of buildings, 19, 35. |

Horn Silver Smelter collection, 252.
Hornaday, William T., 41. 43,133. ~
gift by, 41.
papers of, 353.
Hornblende andesite from Bozosloff, 355.
Horse-hair in manufacture, 82.
Horseshoe collections, 240.
Hot Springs, Ark., minerals collected, 222.
Hotchkiss, Maj. Jed., 268.
Hotham Inlet collections, 69.
Houghton, Mr., contribution from, 66.
Howald, F., 268.
Howell, William, favors from, 267.
Huaca objects from Peru, 57.
Hudson Bay fishes received, 162.
region mammals, 130.
territory, Anodonta from, 183.
Hudson, George, A., carp from, 162.
Hudson River group fossils received, 203.
Humidity of air in lecture room, 40.
Hunter, Captain, Kamtchatkan sheep from, 69.
Humphrey Bros. & Tracey presented miner’s
boots, 264.
Hussey, C. G., Works, copper-refining series, 255.
Hussey, Wells & Co. steel exhibit, 245.
Hydrographic Bureau, bottom samples from, 189.
sent surface specimens,
192.
soundings for, 197.

16

Thises discussed, 357.
Ice Springs Butte lava, 286.
lavas from Utah, 234.
Ichthyography, terminology of, 373.
Icteridx reviewed, 377.
Ideal fishing schooner New Era, 102, 103.
Idiopsar brachyurns, 377.
Iglesias, R., Chiriqui pottery from, 71.
Illinois coals collected, 267.
fishes from C. I. Gilbert, 163.
Impure air in lecture room, 40.
India birds received, 60.
cashmere shawls exhibited, 47,
collections of Rev. C. H. A. Dall, 72.
‘* dalls” obtained, 108.
Indian basketry, Southern, 305.
blanket ornamentation, 299.
boats and canoes from J. G. Swan, 106.
bust and portraits at Cincinnati, 50.
busts exhibited, 57.
painted, 47.
eards from Mexico, 70.
carvings from Rey. J. L. Gould, 69.
collection at Cincinnati, 50.
ethnology, growth of collections illustrat-
ing, 53.
foods, North American, arrangement of,
108,

INDEX.

Indian group, cast of, 45.
hemp for baskets, 301.
iNustrations at New Orleans, 51.
from Ungava, 57.
pottery from New Mexico, 70.
Territory fishes obtained, 61.
trap from Yukon River, 113.
Indiana arrow-leads obtained, 125.
fishes obtained, 61, 170, 173.
State University aided to collect fishes,

170.
birds selected for, 150.
Industrial collections from Philadelphia, 6.
museum exhibits, 12.
Ingersoll, Ernest, paper by, 374.
Ingrain carpet specimens, 80.
Insect collections bought, 188.
Insectivores exchanged, 131.
mounted in 1884, 42.
Insects, 17.
accessions to, 63, 185.
care of, 187.
department of, 63.
for New Orleans Exposition, 63.
from New Orleans, 378.
in relation to agriculture, 363.
injurious to forest trees, 63.
report upon, 185.
International Exhibition, drugs, 76.
Fisheries Exhibition, Bengal pipe
from, 118.
Invertebrate accessions, extent of, 64.
collection overhauled, 194.
department routine work, 193.
duplicates prepared, 194.
entries, nature of, 195.
fishery industries reported upon, 200.
fossils. Mesozoic and Cenozoic, 17,

64.

Paleozoic, 17, 64.
paleontology, progress of, 353.
Paleozoic fossils, Cambrian, 208.

Carboniferous, 208.
- Devonian, 208.
from U.S. Geologi-
cal Survey, 210.
Green’s casts (plas-
ter), 208.
Permian, 208.
Silurian, 208.
Invertebrates, accessions of marine, 189.
added by U.S. Fish Commission,
189.
administered upon, 193.
alcoholic, stored, 201.
belonging to the Museum, 189.
card catalogue of, 195.
catalogued, 194.
distribution of duplicate, 195, 196.
exchanged with Edinburgh Uni-
versity, 195.
exchanges of, 195.
from Florida, 70, 190.
identified collections received, 189.
in keeping of the Museum, 189.
marine, 63.
report upon, 189.
obtained by exchange, 193.
outfits for collecting, 194.
rearranged for exhibition, 194.
recorded, 194. -
researches upon marine, 200.
table showing entries of, 195.

Towa insects obtained, 187.

Iridium collection, 250, 271.

Tridosmine from California, 250, 271.

Iron and steel manufacture in Sweden, 241.
busheled or refined, from serap, 239.
fernaces by-products, 257.
globules, chilled, 230.
metullurgical collections, 258.
mine, Sterling, collections from, 222.
ores, 272.

collected by Tenth Census, 239, 245, 257.
from California, 289.
Pennsylvania and New York fur-
naces, 257.
pyrite collections, 242.

INDEX.

Tron pyrite, sulphuric acid from, 242.
pyrites, 272.
shapes, rolled, 245.
smelting collections, 275.
tank corroded by mine water, 263.
Trons, Swedish, 257.
Troquois basketry, 305.
Irving, Professor, lost rocks by fire, 238.
Tsosoma grande, 362.
Italian marbles exhibited, 236.
quartzite, 236.

J.

Jackson, Professor, found cassiterite, 252.
Jacobs, Messrs., St. Bernard dog from, 132.
Jacquard weaving in silk, 80.
Jade from New Zealand, 280.
simulated by Alaskan pectolite, 225.
serpentine, &c., 69.
Jadeite implements, 376.
Jamaica drugs received, 75.
fishes, catalogue of, 165, 347.
new, 347.
fibers, 70, 80.
foods obtained, 107.
James, Joseph F., replied to, 369.
Japan antiquities obtained, 124.
birds and mammals from 60, 71, 131.
marbles and serpentines, 236.
researches in, 71.
Japanese birds, notes on, 358.
Centennial Commissioners presented
marbles, 236.
fish-trap resembling Indian basketry,
298.
implements and clothing, 118.
Jeffreys, Dr. Gwyn, mollusks from, 71, 181.
Jenkin, N. M., 268.
Jennings, A. G., & Sons, £0.
Jewett, G. W., drugs from, 75.
Johns, H. W., Company asbestos, 268, 269, 276.
Johns, W. H., made copper collection, 255.
Johnson, Capt. George A., Chiasmodus from, 163.
Johnson, Capt. W. R., 268.
Johnson, J. W., Alaskan birds from, 69.
Johnson, Lawrence C., 215.
collected rocks and build-
ing stones, 230.
Jones, Dr. W. H., invertebrates from, 64.
mollusks from, 63.
Pacific Ocean invertebrates
from, 192.
Peruvian and Chilian collec-
tions from, 57, 81.
antiquities from, 116,
117, 118.
fishes from, 162, 164.
pottery from, 121.
Jones, J. Matthew, editor, 353.
on Bermuda mammals, 340.
paper by, 374.
and Goode, G. Brown, editors,
340.
Jones, Mr., on Indian baskets, 295.
Jones, Thomas, presented zine ores, 258.
Joplin Zinc Works collection, 275.
Jordan, David Starr, 379.
collected Cumberland River
fishes, 173.

Florida and Ha-
vana fishes, 61,
163, 173.

Indiana fishes, 170.
Towa fishes, 173.
Mississippi Valley
fishes, 163, 174.
Pacific fishes, 171.
Venetian fishes, 61,
162,17], 173.
examined fresh-water fishes,
165.
explorations of, 169.
Florida invertebrates from,
192.
papers by, 374.
reptiles from, 158.
Jordan & Gilbert collections, 70.

}
}

443

Jordan & Gilbert fish collections burned, 178.
on Utah Lake fishes, 172.
papers by, 375.
Jordan, David Starr, and Meek, Seth E., papers by,
375.

Swain, Joseph,papers by,
375.

Joss-stick powder, 118.
Jouy, P. L., collecting in Japan, 71.
Japanese antiquities from, 124.
collections from, 118, 131,
Joss-stick powder from, 118.
Junk, Chinese fishing, 90.
Jute butts for gunny cloth, 80.
cordage, 80.
tiber, 80.
fibers obtained, 80.
matting and carpets, 81.
specimens received, 80.

K.

Kadiak or Unalashka throwing-stick, 287.
throwing-stick, 287.
Kaflir snuff-box, 119.
Kamtchatkan mountain sheep received, 69.
Kansas fishes secured, 61.
insects received, 185.
slate, 228..
Kaolin from Virg'nia, 228.
Katmai implements, 113.
Kaviak Peninsula bows wanted, 312.
Kear, R. W., furnished electric light, 268.
Kehley’s Run colliery anthracite coal, 263.
Keith, Captain, selected ores, 251.
Kelleher, Daniel, large conger from, 162.
Kemp, Dixon, on Indian sailing vessels, 89.
Kemp, J. F., collected lead series, 253.
collections of, 244.
Kenai implements, 113.*
Kennicott, Robert, 279.
; throwing-stick from, 289.
Kentucky building stones, 229, 231.
fishes collected, 170.
stone implements, 124.
Keokuk limestone crinoids obtained, 203.
Ketch model rigged, 86.
Kettle-bottom vessel model, 93.
Kew Gardens, Chinese rain-coat from, 118.
collections from, 71, 80, 107.
Keying (vessel), tonnage of, 94.
Keyserling and Blasius on Monachus, 33+
Key West fishes, 163, 374, 375, 379.
Kidder, Dr. J. H., 38.
Kiefer. George W., Peruvian objects from, 57, 71,
116, 117, 118.
ine J. H. T., Chippewa grave deposits from,
16.
King’s Mountain tin, 253.
Kingston Public Museum sent Jamacia fishes, 165.
Kiowa shield, 116.
Kirby, E. B., collected Bessemer steel, 258.
copper ores, 254, 255.
Illinois coals, 267.
zine, 258.
metallurgical collections of, 243.
Kirtland's warbler obtained, 358.
Klamath basket-ornamentation, 299.
twined baskets, 299.
Knowlton, Frank H., 65.
work of, 219.

Kodiak collections, 69, 113.

ethbnologica, 113.

native implements, 113.
Kohinoor colliery anthracite, 261.

ornaments, 263.
Kohn, Gustav, reptiles from, 158.
Koons, B. F., 198.
sent granite with mortar cavity,
124.
Kotzebue Sound Eskimo bows wanting, 307.
throwing-stick, 284.

sent Devonian fossils, 204.
Our

anv.

Knapp, E. B.,
Knapp, Ensign I. S.,
Knauss, Thomas E., presented photograph, 265.
Krakatoa, pumice and voleanic ash, 227, 228, 240.
Krupp Works collection, 245.

Kumlien, L., Eskimo box from, 308.
444

Kunz, G. F., sent titanium minerals, 223.
Kurile Islands skin coat, 118.
Kuskoquim, Eskimo bow described, 309.
Kyak and accouterments, 111.

L.

Labeling in museums, 11, 12.
Labels, 19, 27, 28, 29.
care of, 29.
for birds exhibited, 154.
London exhibition, 29.
naval architecture material, 100.
vessels, &c., samples of, 100, 101, 102,
103,104.
printed, 28.
Labrador birds from Lucien Turner, 60.
explorations, 68.
fishes from L. M. Turner, 162.
rare species of, 162.
insects obtained, 63, 185, 187.
seals studied by Dr. Merriam, 68.
Laboratories of the U. 8. Fish Commission, 198.
Laboratory work of curators, 23.
Lace mits, 80.
nubias, 80.
Laces from England, 80.
Jennings & Sons, 80.
machine-made, 80.
Lacoe, Prof. R. D., coal from, 261.
Laemann, Louis, French rocks from, 237.
Lazoa operculata from North Carolina, 187.
Lazopodes, review of, 367.
Lake Superior native copper works collection, 255.
region copper ores, 254.
free copper series, 255,
Lamellibranchiata, Carboniferous, obtained, 212.
Devonian, received, 210, 211,
218.
Land areas from Middle Paleozoic, 207.
Land shells, American, identified, 180.
southern and southeastern, paper on,
180.
snail said to have fallen during rain, 183.
Landrus, H. J., favors from, 267.
La Patera antiquities exhibited, 126.
obtained, 123.
Lapham, Hon. Elbridge G., 35.
Laramie fossil plants, 220.
Lareo, Capt. Andrea, collected Santa Barbara
fishes, 171.
Lari, Arctic, 366.
Laride and Procellariidz, notes,on, 349.
Larks, shore, 373.
Lartigne, Dr. G. B., ceremonial object from, 124.
reptiles from, 158.
Larus nelsoni, 373.
schistisagus, a new North Pacific gull, 366.
Lavack, F., sent minerals, 222.
Lavas, 233.
from Utah, 66.
Lawlor, D. J., ‘‘meteor”’ model from, 92.
steam yacht models from, 93.
vessel models from, 91.
Lea, Dr. Isaac, contributed shells, 181.
Lead, argentiferous, smelting series, 252.
collections from Centennial, 254.
Missouri, 253.
ores, 271.
argentiferous, 271.
smelting argentiferous, 240.
paints, 241.
preparations received, 254.
products, 275.
series from Saint Joe Works, 253.
Leathers shown at Louisville, 49.
Lecture-room, air in, 38, 39.
ventilation of, 39.
Lectures in the Museum, 33.
Lee, Prof. L. A., 198.
studying foraminifera, 197, 200.
Lee, Thomas, volunteer work of, 194.
Letroy, General Sir John Henry, on Bermuda
botany, 340, 376.
Lehnert, Rev. E., mollusks from, 63.
Lemmings from Point Barrow, 130.
Lepus timidus from Labrador, 130.
pene Charles C., presented Charleston fishes,
172.

INDEX.

Lesquereux, Leo, 220.
Lesson and Garnot named a dolphin, 322,
Leucania unipuncta, 363.
; papers on, 359, 360.
Lewis, Dr. Tames, arranged shells, 181.
Lexington Mill methods with ores, 251.
Library, 19.
improvement, 29.
system, 29, 30.
Lichens of Alaska and Siberia, 377.
Life-boat, Netherlands, model, 104.
car model, 86.
Saving Service mammals, 129.
station-keepers, suggestions to, 367.
Light-House Board exhibits returned, 36.
service mammals, 129.
Lilienberg, N., sent Swedish irons, 257.
Limestone, lithographic, 228.
Lower Carboniferous, with fossils, 203.
Chinese fossiliferous, 228.
Limonite from Maine, 229.
Lind, G. D., sent Halysites catenulata, 204.
Lindsley, Dr. J. B., sent meteoric iron, 223.
Linnzus truncatulus received, 193.
Linton, Prof. Edwin, 198.
studying fish entozoa, 200.
Lippitt Woolen Company collection, 82.
Lithological and geological accessions, 66.
collection, 232.
Lithology and physical geology, 17, 66.
alphabetical list
of accessions
to, 227.
collections, local-
ities of, 238.
entries in cata-
logue, 227.
report on, 227.
routine work in,

234,
Little, Brown & Co., publications by, 346.
Little Rock and Fort Smith Railroad mineral col-
lections, 240.
Lobster of curious colors, 190.
Lobsters, decrease of, 356.
Lockington, William N., fishes collected by, 171.
Locust, 362.
London, disposition of collections from, 52.
exhibits returned, 35.
Fisheries collections, 6.
Exhibition birds returned, 150.
boats, &c., from, 85,
106.
catalogues, 340.
fishing craft for, 106.
report on, 52.
Lone Elm Works lead collection, 243, 254, 275.
Longdale Furnaces coke series, 257.
Long Island fishes obtained, 61, 164.
invertebrates obtained, 190.
Long Valley coal-mining views, 266.
mines coal, 243,
Longstreet, Captain, harbor seal from, 131.
Lopholatilus chameleonticeps sought for, 199.
LoriJlard-Charnay collection, 368.
Louisville exhibits, 36, 48.
disposition of, 49.
Exposition, pees ee action on, 48.
work, 47.
Lovett, Edward, sent stalk-eyed crustacea, 193.
Low & Co., raw silks from, 8L.
Lowell Manufacturing Company, carpets, 82.
Loxia curvirostra americana, breeding of, 357.
Loyal Sock mine coal, 243.
Lucas, F. A., 18, 45, 133.
osteclogical work of, 62.
papers of, 353.
(True, F. W., &), on Monachus, 331.
Lucilia macellaria infesting man, 362.
Lunulicardium fragosum, 206.
Luray Caves, stalactites and stalagmites from.
228.
Luther, R. C., assisted to collect coal, 267.
Lutjaninie, osteological characteristics of, 373.
review of, 375.
Lygeus fasciatus from Tllinois, 18%
Lyman, Hon. Theodore, address by, 35.
studied ophiurans, 200,
Lymnocodium Sowerbii obtained, 193.

INDEX.

M.

Maas, A. E.. life-boat model from, 104.
McClain, Ensign C.S., 68.
collected
192.
received collecting outfit,
194

work of, 194.

invertebrates,

McCook, General, 158.
McCormick, Mr., 45.
MeDermot & Berea Company's sandstones, 236.
McDonald, Dr., on Konkan boats, 89.
launching ceremonies, 89.
McFarlane, James, baskets from, 294.
Eskimo bows of, 307.
favors from, 267.
McGee, W.J., collected silicified wood, 230.
MeGuire, J. D., pottery from, 121.
Machva (fishing boat) rig and build, 89.
model (fishing boat) from Bombay, 88.
McIntosh, J. B., made collections, 244.
Mfclntosh, Mr., sent bullion retining series, 252.
McKay, C. L., Alaskan antiquities of, 125.
Bristol Bay ethnologica from, 112.
collections from, 57.
sent Eskimo bow, 309.
throwing-stick from, 289.
Mackellar, Smiths & Jordan, type metal series,
268, 276.
Mackenzie region bow-backing, 312.
Eskimo bows, 307, 310.
River throwing-stick, 283.
Mackerel destroyed by dogfish, 349.
scarcity in Gulf Saint Lawrence, 349.
search in November, 349.
winter movements of, 349.
McKesson & Robbins, drugs trom, 76.
sponge collection, 192.
McLean, John J., California antiquities from, 123,
125.
ethnological objects from, 69.
MeLcod Indian basket ornamentation, 299.
twined baskets, 294.
McLeod, Mr., birds from, 70.
MeNeil, J. C., Chiriqni vases from, 121.
vases bought fiom, 58.
MeNeil, J. H., Guaymas bows and spears from,
118.
Macrodon Hamiltonae, 207. .
tenuistriata, 207.
Macrognatha from New Mexico, 186.
Macrurus from Washington Territory, 347.
Madras fishing catamaran, 88.
marine shells obtained, 183.
“‘masulah’’ boat model, 89.
Madsen, Veter, collected fishes, 172.
Magellan Strait mollusks and shells, 182.
Mahlemut throwing-stick, 288.
Maine s_rpentine, 228.
shell-heap remains, 124.
Makabh basket processes, 299.
basketry, 297.
figured, 299.
implements and ornaments, 115.
Malabar coast basket-work, 292.
Maldives boat models, §9.
Maloney, Mr., African canoe from, 90.
Mammal accessions, 59.
department, progress of, 59.
_ recommendations for, 137.
report on, 129.
routine work, 132, 133, 135.
exhibition balls, work in, 132.
series, 136.
skeletons, representative, 134.
skins preserved, 41, 44.
skulls and skeletons, 59.
Mammals, 17.
additions to, 129.
alphabetical list of accessions to, 138-
&c., packed for New Orleans, 45,
shown at New Orieans, 51, 134.
aquatic, 131.

at London Fisheries Exhibi- |

445

Mammals bought from H. A. Ward, 130.
by European exchange, 128.
condition of, 136.
department of, 59,
duplicate series, 136.
exhibited at Néw Orleans, 134.
exhibition series, 136.
extralimital, obtained, 130.
oon Orleans Exposition, 133, 343,
from Arizona, 130.
California, 69, 130.
Costa Rica, 130.
dealers, 129.
Japan, 71, 131.
Life-Saving Service, 129.
Light- House Service, 129.
menageries, 59.
Signal Burean, 129.
U.S. Fish Commission, 129.
_ zoological gardens and menage-
Ties, 59, 129.
grouped in cases, 134.
in collection, 137.
in the flesh secured in 1884, 43.
lent for study, 137.
mounted forexposition, 134.
in 1884, 41, 42, 43, 44, 45.
new genera of, 129.
species obtained, 129.
to the collection, 129.
number of, 59.
of Bermuda, 340, 374.
North America, systematic work
upon, 136.
North and Central America and
West Indies, 367.
osteological series, 135.
papers on, 136.
protected against insects, 133.
protection of large, 137.
rare, received, 59.
removiug and preserving skins, 353.
shown at Cincinnati, 50.
sought from dealers, 134.
terrestrial, 129.
withdrawn from exhibition series, 134.
Manatee, Florida, obtained, 132.
Manchester silks, 80.
Mandingo arrows, 119.
Manganese ore, 272.
Mangata adz, 118.
Mansfield, I. F., presented drill, 264.
Maori belt and bible, 119.
Marble, glacial] polished, 67, 234.
from Tennessee, 228.
with glacial marks, 228.
Marblehead banker model, 86.
Marbles from Vermont, 228.
Marcon, John Belknap, 17, 215.
minerals from, 223.
papers of, 353.
Marcou, Jules, and John Belknap Marcou, on geo-
logical maps, 354.
Marine fauna off New England, 379, 380.
fishes collected, 174, 175.
invertebrate fishery reports, 200.
invertebrates, 17, 18.
accessions of, 63.
arranged for exhibition, 202.
care of, 201.
catalognes of, 201.
collections of, 201.
department of, 63.
distributed, 31,195.
dry, arrangement of, 202.
from deep sea, 63.
east coast, 190.
naval sources, 63.
U.S. Fish Commission,
63.
in west hall, 202.
miscellaneous, shown, 202.
number exhibited, 202,
cegistered, 202.
report on, 189.

Maritime pictures desired, 99.
Marshall, George, 45.

bought for New Urleans Exposition,
mounted birds, 1438.

tion, 342, 367. |
129, 131.

446

Marshall, Henry, 45.
contribution from, 66.
mounted birds, 148.
Marsupialia mounted m 1894, 43.
secured in 1884, 44.
Martin, S. J., Epinephelus nigritus from, 162.
Maryland mills carpets, 80.
shell mounds pottery, 121.
Masks, labrets, and aboriginal customs, 351.
Mason, Prof. O. T., 16, 18, 47, 54, 277.
as an anthropologist, 56.
beaiue curator of ethnology,
1

lectures by, 33, 56.
methods of, 57.
N novel deluge tablet from,
118.
on basket-work, 291.
bow-lashings, 311.
throwing-sticks, 279.
publications by, 56.
report of, 109.
results produced by, 57.
writings of, 354.
Mass mine copper collection, 241.
refining series, 255.
Massett implements and ornameuts, 114, 115.
Masulah boat model, 89.
Mat embroidery. 292.
of cedar bark showing chain stitch, 298.
Materia medica accessions, 75.
classification, 75.
collection, arrangement of, 75.
catalogue, 75.
condition of, 76.
extent of, 76.
object of, 76.
origin of, 76.
illustrations, 75.
labels, 75.
section, 16.
recommendations for, 76,

report on, 75.
Mats of California Indians, 300.
Matte from copper ores, 256.
Matting from Aleut caves, 292.
Mayflower, sketch of, 91.
Mazatlan and Panama fishes burned, 173.
papers on, 172.
fishes collected, 172.
Meal-tray ornamentation, 303.
Meal-trays, sacred, of the Mokis, 303.
Medicinal forms displayed, 75.
Meek, Seth E., collected Mississippi Valley fishes,
174.
collected Southern fishes, 173.
on pipe-fishes, 379.
papers by, 375, 376.
Meetings of societies, 34.
Meigs, General M.C., presented concretion, 236.
Melanetta fusca in Alaska, 358.
Melospiza fasciata montana, 373.
Menageries contribnte mammals, 59, 129.
Menominee iron region collections needed, 247.
Merchant, George, jr., throwing-stick from, 289.
Merchant & Co. Babbitt metals, 268, 276.
presented tin plate, 253.
solders from, 276.
Merchant bark, color-sketch of, 85.
-marine vessels needed, 98.
vessel models, 94.
wanted, 99.
vessels photographed from paintings,
95

hotographs of, 85.
Merriam, Dr. C. iH, described new shrew, 130.
harp seal obtained by, 131.
investigations of, 68.
on Bermuda birds, 340.
paper by, 376.
Merrill, George P., 17, 18, 66.
fossiliferous rocks sent to,
216.
on building and ornamertal
stones, 342.
papers of, 234, 355.
prepared specimens of build-
ing stones, 66.

INDEX.

Merrill, George P., report of, 227.
Merrill, Dr. James C., birds’ eggs from, 60.
Merrill, L. H., 66.
assisted George P. Merrill, 234.
Merrimac Chemical Compary sulphuric acid col-
lection, 261, 276.
Mesoplodon from Bering Island, 131.
Layardii, cast of beak, 182.
Mesozoic Alaskan fossils, 370.
and Cenozoic fossils, accessions to, 215.
catalogue of.65, 216.
condition of, 216.
from private par-
ties, 215.
index to, 64, 216.
persons working
on, 215.
preservation of, 217.
registered and cata-
logued, 216.
report on, 215.
routine work on,
216.
types of, 65.
Messenger service, 35.
Metal bearings, &c., 242.
extraction from ore, 259.
Metallurgic exhibit at New Orleans, 52.
Metallurgical and geological accessions, 67, 239.
specimens arrauged,

collection catalogue cards, 245.
collections administered upon, 244.
by graduates of techni-
cal schools, 243.
for New Orleans, 67.
operations shown, 272, 273.
processes, how represented, 247.
materials showing, 247.
specimens adamnsterce upon, 245,
4

: number of, 246.
Metallurgy and economic geology, 17, 67.
report on, 239.
collections, 274.
for New Orleans, 269.
studied from Museum materials, 248.
Metals and ores installed, 35.
Meteor (steamship), history of, 93.
model, 92.
Meteoric dust, 227.
iron obtained, 223.
Meteorite collection, 223.
Metropolitan Museum of Art, 10.
Mexican Boundary Survey collections, 6.
Indian cards, 70.
collections, 70.
gambling implements, 70.
investigations, 70.
pottery from W. H. Holmes, 121.
needed, 122.
Mexico, Aztee antiquities from, 123.
fishes obtained, 172.
shells obtained, 183.
Meyer and Muller (schooner) model, 94.
Mica, glacial polished, 66, 234.
obtained, 228.
Mickleborough, Professor, 368.
Microscopie structure of stones, 355.
Middleton, J. D., Winnebago club from, 116.
Migrations of fishes studied by Albatross, 199.
Miller, M. E., 268.
ae Metcalf & Parkin sent crucible steel series,
58. ‘
Mills, Dr. Charles K., lecture by, 34.
Milwaukee Public Museum sent agraulos, 205.
Mindelefi, Victor, aboriginal pottery from, 121.
Navajo jewelry from, 116.
Mine-draining illustration, 266.
engines, photographs of, 243.
La Motte lead series, 253.
locomotives, photographs of, 265.
ventilation devices photographed, 265.
Miner, Ensign R. H., 33, 198.
Mineral accessions, réswmé of, 221.
classification, 224.
exhibit at New Orleans, 52.
fibers, 79.
resources collection, 343, 351,

INDEX.

Mineral waters, constituents of, 75.
exhibited, 75.
Mineralogical notes of Clarke & Chatard, 348.
Mineralogy, 17, 18.
department of, 65.
exchanges in, 65.
growth of collections in, 65.
installing collections in, 65.
report on, 221.
work of curator of, 65.
Minerals, accessions to, 65, 221.
&c., collected by Mr. Yeates, 222.
for New Oileans Exposition, 221, 224.
described, 225.
educational series of, 224.
exchanged, 223.
exhibition series, 224.
from California, 69.
Centennial Exhibition, 246.
Mr. Abert, 221...
Willcox, 221.
how arranged, 224.
installed, 221, 223.
investigated, 221.
number of, 65, 66, 224.
obtained by exchange, 66.
of Arizona wanted, 247.
New Mexico wanted, 247.
overhauled, 246.
study series, 224.
Miners’ boots and materials for, 242, 264.
implements obtained, 263.
Mines and works, plans, drawings, and statistics
of, 248.
Mining, coal, pictures, 264.
pick corroded by mine water, 263.
tools, 242, 243.
Minor, Dr. T. T., Eskimo bow from, 309.
throwing-stick from, 289.
Mintzner, W. A., 279.
throwing-stick from, 289.
Miocene fossil plants compared with exotic, 220.
Miscellaneous departments, 67.
Mississippi Basin fishes collected, 61, 70, 163, 177
178.
musscls collected, 179.
vie specimens, 80.
Valley aboriginal pottery, 121.

fishes, results of collecting, 174. |

Missouri coke collections, 257.
fishes secured, 61.
Furnace iron collection, 275.
lead collections, 253.
minerals collected, 222.
a Dr. 8. Weir, studying venom of lizard,
Modelers, 45.
Models (boat and vessel) described in Newbury-,
port Herald, 98.
needed for Naval Architecture section, 105.
of boats, vessels, &c., exhibited, 98.
Modok baby-basket, 300.
Mohawk wampum belt, 116.
Moki baskets, 303.
bread-trays, 304.
checker-weaving in baskets, 303.
coiled and sewed basketry, 303.
baskets unique, 303.
fetiches, 116.
flat mats, 304.
plaited basketry, 305.
sacred meal-trays, 303.
single-coiled osier or splint, 303.
twig basket, 304.
twilled basketry, 303.
Mola, development of, 365.
Mollusca and crustacea collected, 63.
at London Fisheries Exhibition, 341.
new classification of, 350.
of Commander. Islands, 350.
some appendages of, 350.
studied by Professor Verrill, 200.
Mollusk accessions, 63, 181.
alphabetical list of, 182.
Moliusks, 17.

administered upon, 180.
at New Orleans Exposition, 62.
catalogued, 182,

447

Mollusks, deep-sea, studied, 62.
department of, 62.
edible, from Washington Territory, 184.
from Caribbean deep-sea studied, 180.
from deep water of Gulf studied, 180.
from Dominica, 70.
gastropod, from Jeffrey's collection, 183.
new type of, 350.
number of, 182.
species, 182.
of Gulf coast, Antilles and Southeast
United States much needed, 181.
pelagic, from Capt. J. R. Lyon, 183.
progress made with, 62.
publications upon, 184.
report upon, 179.
Stearns’ collection of, bought, 62.
Monachus, 332.
albiventer, 332.
and tropicalis compared,

measurements, 334.
skull measurements, 335.
tropicalis, 277, 331, 334.
. color of, 331.
diagnosed, 335.
figured, 371.
mandible, 333.
skull, 331, 332, 333.
measurements, 335.
teeth, 333.
whiskers, 331.
Monkeys obtained, 131.
Monk-seal of West Indies, 371.
Montana rocks and fossil woods, 230.
Morgan, Louis H., 56.
Morris, D., drugs from, 75.
Morris, hir., fibers from, 70.
Morse, Prof. Edward S., lecture by, 34.
Mosaic, antique Roman, 373.
Lion 3873.
Moseley, Prot. H. N., cast obtained through, 131.
exchange from, 196
invertebrates from, 193.
Mossy Creek zine ores, 242.
Moths, collecting and preserving, 343, 372.
Moulton Mill methods with ores, 251.
Mound builders, 254.
exploration, 343, 379.
Mount Olive coal region collection, 243.
Vesuvius, model, 234.
Mountain sheep, new race of, 376.
Mugilidw, American marine, 375.
Murdoch, John, 57, 277, 279, 283.
collected Arctic shells, 184.
Point Barrow basket,
204.
lecture by, 34.
mollusk collections of, 181.
on Eskimo bows, 307.
sinew-twisters, 316.
studied Point Barrow inverte-
brates, 201.
to report on Eskimo objects, 111.
Mus, 326.
rattus, 325.
Museum accessions, 22.
nature of, 22.
d sources of, 23.
accounts, 37.
administration adjuncts, 6.
principles of, 12.
administrative staff, 18.
work, 22, 35.
annex, 21.
arrangement, principles of, 11.
arranging material in, 3.
benefits from expositions, 48.
books, 12.
building needed, 22.
buildings, 6.
cases as partitions, 26.
list of, 25, 26.
plan of, 26.
circulars, 342.
separately printed, 348,
classification, 12, 14, 54,
collections, 6.
448

Museum collections at New Orleans, 4.
by Smithsonian aid, 6.
condition of, 20.
list of writers on, 344, 345.
of fishes, 169.
invertebrate Paleozoic fos-
sils, 208.
placed in Smithsonian Insti-
tution, 5.
work upon, 3.
contents, public display of, 9.
curators detailed from other bureaus, 16.
curatorships, 16.
deposits, 5.
direction, 18.
exchanges, 6.
exhibition ape 20, 21.
exposition staff, 19. :
foundation and legal status, 5.
function and aims, 7.
fiir Volkerkunde, African weapons from,

118.
Brazilian implements
from, 118.

ethnologica from, 119.
guide-books, 12.
history, periods of, 8. |
idea, development of, 8.
illustrations, 12, 13.
increase, 3.
lectures, 33.
visited by foreign men of science, 33.
work reviewed, 4.
management, 5.
manuals, 12, 13.
material, how acquired, 7.
preserved, 7.
utilized, 7.
method of classifying, 53.
objects and modes of work, 7.
of Comparative Zoology, 10.
research defined, 11.
officers as authors, 344, 345.
papers by, 3, 346.
organization and governnicnt, 5.
packages recorded, 22. .
papers, bibliography of, 31.
preparators, work of, 41.
Proceedings, volume vi, 339.
publications, 6, 7, 31, 339.
report, 4.
research, 8.
scientific papers, catalogue of, 7.
sheds, 21.
specimens, number of, 20.
staff, 5, 15, 16.
storage courts, 3.
trays, 15.
types, 7.
Museunis as educators, 8, 10.
Musical instruments, 55.
East Indian, 72.
Muskrat destroyed carp, 371.
Florida, 325, 328, 367.
round-tailed, 130, 825, 367.
relations of, 330.
Mussels for New Orleans Exposition, 179.
Mygale from Arizona, 186.
California, 187.
Myodes obensis obtained, 130.

N.
Napier matting, 81.
Nation, Professor, Peruvian birds from, 71.
National Academy of Sciences in Museum, 34.
cabinet of curiosities transferred, 5.
Museum, comprehensive organization of,
11

Natural history collections at Cincinnati, 50.
; New Orleans, 51.
exihbit at Louisville, 49.
Naturalists’ Society meeting, 35.
Navajo fetiches, 116.
jewelry, 116.
Naval architecture additions, 85.
collection, arranging and clas-
sifying, 96.
condition of, 98,

INDEX.

Naval architecture collection, development of, 98.
history of, 105.
department statistics, 98.
development illustrations, 99.
gallery opened, 52.
material described, 98.
report on, 85.
section, 16, 17.
desiderata for, 105.
researches in, 97.
specimens exhibited, 98.
battle photographed, 85.
officers’ collections, 192.
vessels needed, 98.
Navy Department, bottom samples from, 192.
Needle of Eskimo basket-maker, 294.
Negatives added in 1884, 46.
Neill, J. W., minera’s from, 222.
Nellie S. Picking (schooner) model, 94.
Nelson, E. W., 279.
aboriginal pottery from, 121.
Arizona reptiles from, 157.
baskets from, 294.
birds’ eggs from, 60. :
Cape Romanzott bows from, 309, 310,
collected Arizona rodents, &c., 130.
Cape Vancouver throw-
ing-sticks, 286.
collections from, 57, 70.
Diomede spear from, 115.
explains bow-string twisters, 316.
Eskimo bows from, 307, 309.
Norton Sound ethnologica from, 112.
papers by, 136, 376.
par Lawrence Island bows from,
3.
throwing-sticks trom, 286, 289.
Yukon delta bow from, 312.
Neofiber, 326, 327, 328, 330.
defined, 325, 330.
alleni, 277.
described, 130, 325, 326.
from Florida, 367.
habits unknown, 330.
measurements, 329.
skeleton measurements, 329.
skull measurements, 329.
Netherlands life-boat model, 104.
Nevada, Central, Paleozoic fossils, 207.
Devenian fauna, 206.
Paleozoic fanna, nature and relations of,
205

fossils, results of work on, 205.
showing faunal succes-
sion, 205.
shells new to science, 182.
white pine shale fanna, 206.
New Caledonia club, 119.
New England, marine fauna off, 380.
New Era, ideal fishing schooner, 102, 103.
New Guinea weapons, ornaments, &c., 57, 72, 119,
120.
New Hampshire geology and lithology, illustra-
tions of, 237.
New Idria, California, insects obtained, 186.
New Jersey insect obtained, 185.
New Mexico aboriginal pottery, 121.
collections, 70.
minerals wanted, 247.
New Orleans collections in economic geology and
metallurgy, 269.
exhibit, 51.
labels for, 5'.
of birds, 151.
preparations for, 45, 51.
Size of, 52.
Exposition, assistant director at,52.
building and ornamental
stones, 66.
collections, 240, 241.
in motal-
lurgy, 247.
Congressional bill con-
cerning, 48
curators at, 52.
economic entomology
at, 187.
exhibits, 36.

INDEX.

New Orleans Exposition fishes, 61, 70, 169.
Government building,

51.
invertebrates, 68, 191,
mammals, 43, 132, 133.
material to be studied,
246.
minerals bought for, 221
metals, &c.,collected for,

67.
wollusks for, 179.
navalarchitecture in, 97.
returns from, 48.
southern fishes collected
for, 173.
stones prepared for, 234.
textiles collected for, 83.
work, 41, 45, 47.
by Museum ofli-
cers, 4.
fishes, 374.
collected, 172.
New York antiquities obtained, 123.
minerals obtained, 222.
New Zealand jade, 230.
aori belt and bible, 119.
Newberry, Prof. J.S., lecture by, 34.
Newburyport Herald descriptions of boat and ves-
sel models, 98.
Newcomb, Prof. Simon, lecture by, 34.
Newhall, W. H., performed clerical work, 276.
Nez Percés basketry, 301.
ornamentation, 301.
Nicaragua bark shirt, 118.
birds of C. C. Nutting, 357, 376.
Nichols, Capt. Henry E., Alaskan fishes of, 347.
Nichols, Dr., Dominica collections from, 70.
Nicholson, Agnes, 179.
Nickel and cobalt collections, 253, 257, 272.
wrought, collection wanted, 257.
Nikko clothing, &c., 118.
Nineveh deluge tablet, 118.
Ningpo joss-stick powder, 118.
Noctilio leporinus, var. mastivus obtained, 130.
Nomenclature of ethnological objects, 110.
Non-metallic ores, application of, 276.
collected, 268.
Nordenskjéld, Baron, collections from, 57.
a Siberian throwing-stick,
Nordenskjéld’s description of Eskimo bows, 308.
Norfolk Island insects received, 185.
Norman, Rey. A. M., British invertebrates from,
193.
crustacea exchanged with,

196.
North Atlantic deep-sea shells from Mr. Jeffreys,

71.
North Bloomfield mine gold collection, 249, 274.
North Carolina fishes collected, 171.
tin, 253.
North Cornwall Iron Furnace collection, 244.
North Pacific exploration, 69.
Exploring Expedition corals, 202.
Eskimo
bows, 307,
313.

mollusks received, 181.
Northwest American tribal arts, 57.
Norton Sound baskets, 293.
Eskimo bows, 312, 313.
ethnologica, 112.
throwing-sticks, 286.
Norway boats obtained, 106.
echinoderms, 193.
pumice sand, 229.
rocks, 227.
Nottingham laces, 80.
Nubia club, 119. :
Nunivak Island and Cape Vancouver throwing-
stick, 286.
Eskimo bow, 309.
Nushagak collections, tv.
Nutting, C. C., Nicaragua birds of, 357.
paper by, 376.
Nye, Willard, jr., 198.
assistedin collecting, 197.

S. Mis. 33, pt. 2--——29

449

0.

Obsidian and obsidian pumice, 236.
Offatt, F. L., performed clerical work, 276.
pi yee Dr. W. W., stone club from, 124.
Ohio antiquities exhibited, 126.
received, 125.
mound-pipes of Squier and Davis, 125.
Old Providence birds, 70.
Omatchi shrine offerings, 118.
Omori shell-heap remains, 124.
Oncorhynchus species investigated, 172.
Ontario mill silver collection, 275.
mine collection of ores, 251.
Onyx from California, 228.
marbles, 236.
Odlitic limestone for building, 228.
Ophiuroidea exhibited, 202.
new species of, 380.
is. new genus, proposed, 357.
. R., California fossils from, 69.
sent reptiles, 158.
Orcutt, H. C., reptiles from, 158.
Ord’s pocket-mouse bought, 130.
Ore collecting to show processes, 247.
Oregon antiquities obtained, 123.
arrow-heads obtained, 124.
collections, 69.
Indian basketry, 299.
shells received, 183.
(ship) model, 94.
stone club from, a
Ores for New Orleans, 269.
foreign, overhauled, 245,
native, installed, 245.
of Colorado, 240.
treatment at Lexington Mill, 251.
treatment at Moulton Mill, 251.
Organic matter in air of lecture room, 39.
Oriskany sandstone fossils obtained, 204.
Ornamental stones and gems at Cincinnati, 50.
at New Orleans, 65.
bought, 65.

Orcothly
Orcutt,

| Ornithochiton, eyes shown, 183.

Ornithological nomenclature changes, 366.
Ornithology, trinomials in American, 366.
Ornithophilologicalities, 366.

Orthoceras from Kansas coal measures, 204.

Orthoptera, 364.

Ortyx virginianus not in Arizona, 357.

Oryzoborus nuttingi, 376.

salvini, 376.
Osceola copper mine collection, 243, 255, 270.
Mill copper extraction series, 255.

Oscines, rare American, 377.

Osmorhiza longistylis as a bur, 369.

Osteological preparations sent to New Orleans, 62.

preparator, 45.

Ostrich feathers collection, 47.

Otiorhynchus ligneus from Massachusetts, 186.

Ovambo collars and arrows, 119.

Ovis montana Dalli, 376.

nivicolea from Siberia, 131.
Owl, name of American hawk, 366.
Oxford University Zoological Museum, Mesoplo-
don cast from, 131.

Oyster and clam transportation, 365.
coloration of blood corpuscles, 365.
culture at Saint Jerome's, 364.

experiments, 364.
filter or diaphragm for, 364.
enemies and parasites, 370.
experiments, notes upon, 381.
fattening floats, 364.
industry, 352, 353.
condition and needs of, 381.
life history, 365.
operations on Chincoteague Bay, 364.
spat collectors, 364.
Oysters, greening of, 364.

Ba

Pacific coast fishes collected, 162, 171, 174, 175.
distributed, 172.
papers on, 171.

Pacitic exploration, northern, 69.
450 ‘5

Pacific fishes, manuscript on, burned, 172.
new to science, 172.
islands, canoes, &c., from, 105.
Mills samples, 82. :
specimens from, 81.
visited, 83.
Ocean invertebrata obtained, 64.
Railroad Survey collections, 6.
Steam Whaling Company, Arctic coal
from, 69.
Page & Krause, barytes collection, 276.
sent barytes series, 269.
Pagophilus, 368.

Painting, history of, illustrated, 56.
Paleacrita vernata, 360.
Palenqué, La Stéle de, 356.
Paleontology of Eureka district, 368.
types illustrat-
ing, 203.
Paleozoic fauna ot Central Nevada discussed, 214.
fossil plants, 220.
fossils from California, 204.
grouped in the strata, 207.
miscellaneous, obtained, 204.
of Central Nevada, 207.
invertebrate fossils, 64.
additions to, 20S.
administered upon,
208.
condition of, 64.
disposition of, 209.
number of, 64, 208.
number of rocks
containing, 208.
present state of,
208.
received from U.S.
Geological Sur-
vey, 210-214.
report on, 203.
stored, 208,
work on, 205.
rocks of Central Texas, 368.
Palmer, Dr. Edward, collecting corals, 70.
describes use of roasting
trays, 301.
i Pe Indian objects from,
116.
invertebrates from, 63, 191.
on Indian basketry, 303.
received collecting outfit, 194.
Palmer, Joseph, 45, 133.
Palmer, William, 45, 133.
Palms in Museum, 65.
Palos (brig) model, 93.
Panama and Costa Rica fishes burned, 173.
fishes collected, 173.
excavations, rocks and fossils wanted
from, 180.
fishes collected, 172.
Paper from Yucea brevifolia, 81.
Paper-weight of Russian stones, 230.
Papers on Museum material, 31.
material not by Museum offi-
cers, 371.
Papuan weapons, ornaments, &c., 119, 120.
Park Brothers & Co. steel exhibit, 245.
Parke, Davis & Co., drugs from, 76.
Parker, Peter, jr., assisted in laboratory, 198.
on fishes, 169.
Parker, Dr. W. T., Apache bed from, 116.
Parkhurst, V. P., Jamaica fibers from, 80.
Jamaican foods from, 107.
Parry’s account of Eskimo bows, 308.
description of throwing-stick, 283.
Part I begins, 3.
Part IL begins, 73.
Part LI, papers illustrating collections, 277.
Part LV, bibliography, 337.
Part V, appendix, 3&1.
Parula—Compsothlypis, 366.
Passaic Zine Works collection, 273, 275.
Passerculus princeps, breeding-place of, 357.
Patchogue fish collections, 165,
Patella in birds, 377.
Patna (Bengal) dug-out for fishing. 87.
Pattee, William P., vessel models from, 94.

Pawtucket Hair-Cloth Company collection, 82.

INDEX.

Peabody Academy Musenm, 10.
Museum of Archeology, 10.
Yale College, 10.
Peacock coal received, 263.
Peale, Dr. A. C., 236.
Pearce, Richard, sent minerals, 221.
Pearis, C. F., made Utah collections, 244.
Pearl from Venus mercenaria, 182.
Peccary tusk from Graham Island, 114.
Peckham, Prof. S. F., sent thomsonite, 221.
Pectolite from Alaska identified, 225.
Peerless mine coal, &c., 262.
Pouuery Col. Philip G., presented anthracite,
Pennsylvania Coal Company sent coal-brealer
picture, 266.
a Drill Company collection,
69.
Museum of Industrial Art, 10.
Tack Works collection, 240.
Pensacola fishes, 172, 374.
spotted dolphin, 317.
Pentacrinus from Havana, 197.
the Albatross, 190.
Periplaneta americana found on whale-ship, 185.
from Florida, 185.
Perkins, Harriet S8., 148, 152, 153.
Perley, L.O, sent Fusulina cylindrica, 204.
Pernety’s figure of dolphin, 322.
Perry Japan Expedition collections, 6.
Perry, N. H., sent Maine minerals, 223.
Peru, Ancon, antiquities, 116, 117, 118.
pottery, 121.
and Ecuador, shells from, 183.
birds from, 71.
collections from, 71.
fishes from Dr. Jones, 164.
Huaca objects, 57.
pottery from, 58.
shells from, 183.
Phalacrocorax violaceus and resplendens, note on,
357.
Phalarope, oldest name for Wilson’s, 366.
Pharmacological experiments recommended, 76,
77. ‘
Pharmacopeceias, report on, 75. :
Philadelphia Academy of Natural Sciences, 10.
and Reading Coal and Iron Company
collections, 261.
and Reading Coal and Iron Com-
pany’s exhibit, 267.
International Exhibition collections,
6

Permanent Exhibition, accessions
from, 67.
Philippine Islands, shells from, 183.
Phoca, 368.
fasciata skeleton, 368.
tropicalis, 335.
vitulina, 131, 332.
Wilkianus, 335.
Phenix Iron Company’s rolled iron, 245.
Photinus ardens from Maine, 186.
Photographer, 46.
Photographic instruction to scientific men, 46.
instruments purchased 46.
work for Government bureaus, 46.
in 1884, 46, 47.
Photographs of coal mines and mining, 264, 260.
stone buildings, 66.
Photolithographs of Japanese pottery, 51.
Photomicrographs of rock sections, 282.
Phylloxera, 362, 363.
spinosa, 362.
vastatrix insecticide, 36L.
Physa gyrina from New Mexico, !84.
and Zaptychius, bearing of the discovery
of, 207.
Physical geology collections, 233.
report on lithology and, 227.
Jabels and cards, 234.
Physiology, experimental, 72.
Picoides tridactylus alascensis, 376.
Pig-copper refining illustrated, 240, 256.
Pig iron and ores from furnaces, 257.
from fossiliferous ores. 241.
smelting collection, 241, 257.
Pig iead from the ore, 243, 254.

j
INDEX.

Pike, Hon. Nicholas, sent exotic shells, 181.
Pilot boat models, 56, 92.
Pinkie model, 86.
Pinnipeds from California, 131.
mounted in 1884, 42.
secured in 1884, 44.
Pinus monophylla prepared, 301.
Pipe-fishes of Key West, 379.
Piper, Mrs. M. A., Maori objects from, 119.
Placer gold specimens, 67.
bought, 244, 248.
Plant accessions, 65.
analysis recommended, 76.
Plants, accessions of fossil, 219.
added to Washington flora, 369.
Carboniferous fossil, 220.
catalogued, 65.
chemistry of the feeding of, 346
classified, 65.
Cretaceous fossil, 220.
department of fossil. 219.
determined fossil, 220.
duplicate fossil, 220.
fossil, administered upon, 220.
and recent, 17, 65.
catalogued, 220.
compared with living, 219.
curator’s work on, 219.
from coal, 263.
in reserve series, 220.
from botanical gardens, 36.
Costa Rica, 71.
Joad collection of, 65.
Laramie group fossil, 220.
Paleozoic fossil, 220.
Tertiary fossil, 220.
undetermined fossil, 220.
Plectognath fishes, synopsis of, 372.
Plectrodera scalator from Lllinois, 187.
Pleurotomaria nodomarginata, 207.
Plum curculio, 363.
Pecilichthys, new spevies of, 374.
Pecilopoda, Carboniferous, obtained, 212.
Devonian, obtained, 211, 214.
Poey, Prof. Félipe, Cuban fishes from, 70.

sent Monachus tropicalis, 331.

Pogonip fossils, 207.
Point Barrow basket, 294.
Eskimo bows, 307, 310.
objects, 57, 111, 112.
invertebrates new to science, 201.
studied, 201.
mammals obtained, 130.
shells obtained, 184.
throwing-stick, 283, 284.
Polar hare-skins obtained, 130.
Polishing materials, 242.
Pollard, John A., assisted to collect coal, 267.
sent view of colliery, 266.
Polynesia, tapa cloth from, 119.
Polynesian weapons, 57.
Polyzoa, Devonian, obtained, 213.
Pompano of 36 pounds obtained, 163.
Ponca ax from grave, 116
op ewe palm-leat coat, 118.
Porichthys porosissimus, note on, 374.
Porpoise oo eries investigated by Mr. True, 132.

“ter hae
Porpoises from U. S. Fish Commission, 132.
Port Clarence throwing-stick, 285.
Portugal building and ornamental stones, 236.
Porzana leucogastra, 376.
Potomac breccia marble, 236.
Potsdam sandstone fossils from Wisconsin, 205.
Potter, Prof. W. B., assisted collecting, 244.
Pottery, aboriginal American, 18, 121.
received in 1884, 58.
American prehistoric, 17.
Chiriqui, 71.
collection, gaps in, 122.
value of, 122.

department of American prehistoric, 58.

from Central America needed, 122.
Maryland shell mounds, 121.
Mexico needed, 122.

South America needed, 122.

451

Pottery, Peruvian, from Dr. W. H. Jones, 58.
report on aboriginal, 58, 121,
Pottsville district coal mine collections, 267.
Powell, Maj. J. W., lectures by, 34.
Powers on Indian baskets, 300.
Prehistoric America, 351.
fishing, 356.
Indian objects, 53.
Prentiss, Dr. D. Webster, lecture by, 34.
Preparation, 19.
Preparator’s building erected, 36.
increase of, 41.
work of, 41.
Pribylov Islands throwing-stick, 288.
Primates mounted in 1884, 42.
secured in 1884, 43.
Prime, Temple, on new spherium, 377.
Prince William Sound throwing-stick, 287.
Print-roller for calico printing, 82.
Priocella tenuirostris, habitat, 366.
Prionotus from dolphin stomach, 324.
Proceedings of Museum published, 339.
in 1884, 31.
volume vii, 339.
signatures published in 1884, 339.
Prochlorite in District of Columbia, 355.
—— J. R., sent Kentucky building stones,
231.
Proctor, A. C., contribution from, 66.
Prodelphinus, 317.
brevimanus, 323.
doris, 277, 317, 323, 324.
colors of, 318,
described, 318.
diagnosis of, 323, 324.
ar ee measurements of,
19.
external morphology of, 318.
osteology, 319.
pelvis, 320.
phalanges, 320.
recorded from Florida, 317.
skeleton measurements, 320.
skull deseribed, 319, 321.
sternum and scapula, 320.
(typical) skull measure-
ments, 321.
vertebra described, 319, 320.
with injured vertebra, 324.
dubius in Paris Museum, 323.
frenatus, 323.
frontalis, 323.
marginatus, 320.
obscurus, cast of head, 132.
plaziodon, 323.
skull measurements, 321.
skull variations in, 321.
species not fully described, 322.
Productus semireticulatus obtained, 204.
subaculeatus, 206.
Progne, note on, 377.
Property and yp tae 19, 37.
Property clerk, duties of, 37,
Propithecus holomelas bought, 131.
Psyllidw#, North American, 361.
of United States, 362.
Ptarmigans of Nelsen, 366.
shedding claws, 267.

| Pteropoda, Carboniferous, obtained, 212.

Devonian, obtained, 211, 213, 214.
Ptilodyctia carbonaria, 207.

serrata, 207.
Publication, 19.
Publications of the Museum, 31, 339.
Pueblo ware installed, 121.
Pulmonifera, Carboniferous, obtained, 212.

in Lower Carboniferous rocks, 207.
Pumice from Krakatoa, 230.
sand, Norwegian, 229.

Pumpelly, Prof. R., collected iron ores, 272.

ores, 239.
Pusa, 368.
Pyrite for sulphuric acid manufacture, 260.
from Virginia, 260.
products, 261.
Pyrites obtained, 262.
452

Q.

Quadrupeds, faults in mounting, 353.
Quail and grouse, southern limit of, 357.
Quartzite from Italy, 236.
Quarternary mollusks compared with recent, 62.

shells arranged, 180.
Queen, J. W., & Co., favors from, 267.

presented safety lamps, 263.

Quicksilver, 271.

Quil, James B., sent Orthoceras, 204.
Quincy granite shown, 236.

R.

Rag carpets, specimens of, 80.
Rainbow trout from Roanoke River, 163.
Rajah of Tagore sent musical instruments, 72.
Rannia from China, 192.
Ratchet-drill received, 264,
Rathbur, Miss M. J., assigned to invertebrate
work, 194.
Rathbun, Richard, 17, 18, 63.
field work of, 194.
identified copepods, 200.
laboratory assistant, 198.
on crustacea, worms, &c., 341.
sea and fresh water investi-
gation, 341.
papers of, 355.
report of, 189.
studying Echini, 197, 200.
Rau, Dr. Charles, 16.
curator, 58.
de La Stéle de Palenqué, 356.
on aboriginal antiquities, 356.
prehistoric fishing, 356.
report of, 123.
studying prehistoric fishing, 126.
writings of, 356.
Rau’s arrangement of antiquities, 58.
paper on archeological collection illus-
trated, 58.
Raw silk fabrics, specimens of, 81.
specimens from Low & Co., 81.
Nay, Lieut. P. H., 279.
birds’ eggs from, 60.
collected Arctic shells, 184.
throwing-sticks, 283.
Eskimo objects from, 57, 111.
explains sinew-twisters, 316.
report of, 201.
throwing-stick from, 289.
Reckhart, D. W., made lead smelting collection,
252.
made Utah collections, 244.
silver ores from, 250.
Reckhart & Pearis smelting collection, 252.
Red Ash Coal Company’s peacock coal, 263.
Ree hoe, 116.
Reeves, Paul S., Babbitt collection, 276.
sent Babbitt series, 268.
Registers, automatic, for visitors, 32.
Registry and storage, 19.
Reiche, C. and E., sent mammals, 131.
Reid, Capt. Savile G., on Bermuda birds, 340, 377.
Reptile accessions, 61. ‘
department routine, 158.
records kept, 159.
series, 158. :
Reptiles and Batrachians, 17.
department of, 60,
eard catalogue of, 159.
condition of, 159.
contributions of, 157.
correspondence about, 159.
from the Albatross, 157.
Utah, 61.
in the Museum, 159.
: of Bermu da, 340, 372.
Reserve series, 24.
Respiratory impurity of air in lecture room, 40.
Retzia radialis, 206.

Rhees, William J., directing Museum accounts, 37.
Rhode Island Horseshoe Company horseshoes, 240.

Rhus aromatica, var. triloba in basketry, 303.
in basket hats, 301.
Rhynchonella (Leiorhynchus) quadricostata, 206.

INDEX. ,

Rhynchoporus cruentatus from Florida, 186.
Rhyolites from Mexico, 231.
Rhyssa lunator from Massachusetts, 186.
South Carolina, 187.
err Hill Zine Furnaces, collection from, 243, 259,

Richardson, J., sent reptiles, 158.
Richardson, Nathan, steerer from, 95.
Richardson’s challenge steerer, 95.
a Hon. William T., prepared Italian marbles,
Rice, Prof. William North, on Bermuda geology,
340,
sent minerals, 223.
Richmond & Potts, furnace drawings from, 269.
Richmond coal-fields, collections from, 267.
Ridgway, Robert, 17.
edited Nicaragua birds list, 376.
Indiana arrow-heads from, 125.
on London Fisheries birds, 341.
on water birds, 346.
papers of, 356, 357.
publications of, 152.
report of, 143.
sent reptiles, 158.
R a y for fi sgeech 9
igging (standing) for fishing schooner, 95.
Rises, F, Sioux head-dress fans, 116.
Riley, C. V., 17.
honorary curator, 63, 185.
report by, 362.
of, 185.
writings of, 359-364.
Roane Iron Company coke collection, 257.
Robertson, A., English laces from, 80.
fabrics from, 80.
Robinson, Prof. Thomas, collected rock samples,
contribution from, 66.
Roccus septentrionalis from Mississippi, 163.
Rock bored by mollusks, 229.
forming minerals exhibited, 233.

prepared, 232.
labels, 233.

photographs, 66.
sections and labels prepared, 66.
shown by enlarged photomicro-
graphs, 232.
Rocks and geological specimens, number of, 67.
tufas from Geological Survey, 66.
Western States, 230.
&e., number in collection, 234.
resent condition of, 234.
classified, 232.
clastic, 232.
crystalline, 232.
divided by structure and texture, 232.
educational series, 232.
exhibited in Museum, 66.
foreign, 230.
from Abert collection, 227.
Dr. Hawes’s estate, 228.
in exhibition series, 232.
of Canada, New Brunswick, and Nova
Scotia, 237. .
Yellowstone National Park, 236.
prepared as specimens, 232.
safety of, from fire, 238.
thin sections prepared, 234.
types of, for reference. 238.
vitreous, 2382.
Rockwell, Colonel, 37.
Rockwood Furnace coke series, 257.
iron collection, 275.
Rodentia mounted in 1884, 42, 43.
secured in 1884, 44.
Rodgers, Commodore John, collected throwing-
stick, 284.
Rogers, William, Oregon model from, 94.
Romero, Senor, Mexican cards from, 70.
Rope specimens from Bailey & Co., 80.
Rosenbusch collection of rocks, &c., 237.
Ross, Bernard, Eskimo bows from, 307, 310, 312.
Rothrock, Dr. J. T., collected antiquities, 123.
on Alaskan lichens, 377.
distribution of Elymus,
292.
Roxbury Carpet Company, specimens from, §1.

INDEX.

Roxbury C. t Company, tapestry, 83.
Royal “Botanical Gardens, Engine? collections
rom, 71,
80, 107.
Royal College of Surgeons, collections from, 71.
Rug renovated, 44.
Ruminants temporarily installed, 133.
Russell, I. C., collected rocks and tufas, 66.
collected Utah rocks and tufas, 230.
sent lava, 236.
Ryder, Jobn A., lecture by, 34.
papers of, 72.
work of, 72.
writings of, 364.

s.

_ Sabine Basin fishes collected, 178.

Saccopharyngoid fishes, 365.
literature and relations
of, 373.
Sackett’s Harbor, New York, bird-shaped object
from, 124.
Sacramento Basin fishes collected, 178.
Satety lamps, 243, 262.
Safford, Ensign W. E., 198.
Sail-maker’s tools and apparatus, 96.
Saint Joe Works lead series, 253.
John's River fishes, 375.
Lawrence Island bows, 313, 314, 315.
Louis Tripoli Company's collection, 269, 276.
Thomas fishes received, 163.
Salmo gairdneri received, 162.
iridens from Roanoke River, 163.
Sonth Side Club, 162.
Salmon of Pacific coast studied, 172.
Salt, Cheshire, from Mr. Higgin, 107.
Saltonstall, H., courtesies of, 83.
Salvador plants and animals, 71.
Salvelinus stagnalis from Labrador, 162.
Salvin cabinets needed for birds, 154.
San Diego mollusks received, 184.
Salvador minerals, 240.
products obtained, 107.
textiles, 80.
Sand and emery paper, 242.
Sanders. J. D., minerals from, 222.
Sand paper collection, 268, 276.
Sandpiper, breeding of pectoral, 376.
Sandstone oe sug ripple marks and sun cracks,
23

slab exhibited, 237.
Sandwich Islands collection obtained, 72.
Sanguinolites Zolus, 207.
Santee Basin fishes collected, 175.
Saperda bivittata, 360.
Saturday lectures, 33.
Savannah Basin fishes collected, 175.
Saxon art, photographs showing, 51.
Saxony rock spetimens, 236, 237.

Royal Mining School sent rocks, 236.
ar Female Institute sent fossils in exchange,
Scalops aquaticus, 325.

Scaphiocrinus from Captain Wheeler, 203.
Scaroid fishes, descriptions of, 375.
Schernikow, Ernest, exchange with, 126.
Schieffelin & Co., drugs from, 76.
Schizochiton eyes shown, 183.
Schley, W. S., 192.
Schlichter Jute Cordage Company, 80.
Schmidt, Frederick C., 92.
Schneider, Mr., laverack setter from, 132.
si eamec illustration of preparing pine seeds,
Schooner, cod-fishing, models, &6.
fishing, builders’ model of ideal, 86.
standing rigging, 95.
models, 56, 94.
showing evolution, 86.
three-masted, 94.
Schott, A. L., collected exotic plants, 219.
Schreiber, J. D., sent corundum, 221.
Schuermann, C. W., 19.
Schumacher, Paul, on basket stitch, 294.
Scizena sciera from Mazatlan, 375.
Sciathos island sloop, 89.
Scientific departments, review of work in, 53.

453

Sclater, Philip Lutley, ers of, 377.
Scollick, J. W.. 45. ‘guid
Screw steamer model of early type, 98.
Scudder, N. P., on fiber skull, 327.
Sea and fresh water investigation, 841.
birds, habits and capture, 348.
bottom materials investigated, 199.
cow, Steller's, extermination of, 366.
elephants from South California, 70.
lion, Californian, obtained, 131
lions and seals from the Farallones, 70.
urchins, ary. arrangement of, 202.
exhibited, 202.
Seal group reconstructed, 41, 44.
harbor, from Bering Island, 131.
harp bought, 131.
monk, 333.
Ribbon, skeleton of, 368.
West Indian, 331.
Seals and cetaceans received, 59.
and sea lions from the Farallones, 70.
from Bering Island, 131.
investigated by Dr. Merriam, 68.
returned from London, 133.
Selasphorus torridus, note on, 358.
Sells, Lewis, presented puma, 130,
sent mammals, 131.
Semul tree dug-out, 87.
Serpentine and green quartzite from Alaska, 69.
from Maine, 228.
Massachusetts, 228.
Shad from Columbia River, 162.
Shagticoke flax and flax twines, 80.
Shark mounted, 44.
Sharpe, R. Bowdler, birds from, 60.
on Progne, 377.
Sheafer, P. W., sent coal ornaments, 263.
fern-leaf impressions, 263.
sections of coal beds, 266.
Sheldon, D, S., sent reptiles, 158.
Shell-mound pottery from Maryland, 121.

| Shells, cases for land, 180.

exhibited at Lonisville, 49.
New Orleans, 51.
exotic, in Museum, 181.
from California, 69.
Magellan Straits, 71.
Mr. Jeffreys, 71.
Terra del Fuego, 71.
land, identified, 62, 180.
and fresh-water, collected by R. E.
Call, 184.
of District of Co
lumbia, 183.
new land and fresh-water species, 182.
Shields of Bateke negroes resemble fish-trag
basket, 298.
Shindler, A. Zero, 47.
Ship-building models, 51.
Ships, early American, color sketches of, 91.
Ship models (cotton carriers), 94.
Shoemaker, C. W., clerical work of, 143.
Shore larks of United States, 373.
Shoshone baskets coiled and whipped, 301.
conoid basket hats, 301.
Indian basketry, 301.
method of preparing pine seed, 301.
roasting trays, 301.
Shufeldt, Dr. R. W., collections from, 70.
papers of, 377.
sent fishes, 374.
Siam boats obtained, 106.
Siberian bow described, 313.
bows figured, 313.
(Eastern) throwing-stick, 285.
Eskimo bows, 307, 313, 315.
objects, 112.
mammals, 131.
sheep obtained, 131.
Siemachko, J., sent Russian minerals, 223.
Siemens heating system, 269.
regenerative principle represented, 242.
Signal Service collections at Sitka, 69.
exhibits returned, 36,
exploration, 69.
mammals, 129.
mollusks from, 63.
Siler, A. L., sent Syringopora, 204.
454

Silicate and carbonate zinc ore, 259.
Siliceous and calcareous sinters, 236.
Silicified wood from Mr. McGee, 230.
Silk fabrics from England, 80.
manufacture illustrated, 81.
Silks, raw, obtained, 81.
Silliman, Benjamin, cast of, 45.
Silurian corals, 206.
Silver ard copper, native, 250.
lead refining, 275.
collections, 250, 271.
oxeacias from ores, illustrations wanted,
51.
from base ores, 271, 275.
horn, 271.
bative, 271
wanted, 250.
with sulphide of copper, 250.
ores, chloridizing roasting, 240.
of Utah, 250.
ruby, 271.
smelting and refining, 275.
collections, 251.
wire, 271.
Simms, James M., standing rigging from, 95.
Sinew backing for bows, 308.
twisters for bows, 313, 316.
mode of using, 316.
used in a game, 315.
twisting tools, note on, 315.
Singleton, Dr. k. H., 215.
Sioux head-dress, 116.
medicine man’s pipe, 116.
Siphonostoma from American waters, 355.
Siphostoma McKayi, 379.
Sirenians added, 132.
Sitka bow imitating Eskimo in backing, 315.
ethnologica, 69.
Thiinket objects, 114.
Skaneateles rocks, 229.
Skeletons prepared, 45,
Sketches by Mr. Shindler, 47.
Skidegate implements and ornaments, 114, 115.
Skiff for fishing in Greece, 89.
Slade, Elisha, on hybrid ducks, 378.
Slag from copper ores, 256.
Slate from Kansas, 228.
Smelting of auriferous material shown, 249.
operation illustrations, 273.
Smillie, T. Y., 46.
enlarged mining pictures, 264.
Smith, A. J. M., Puftin sk.n coat from, 118.
Smith, C. M., antiquities from, 125, 126.
Smith, Charles J., collected Oregon fishes, 171.
Smith, E. C., fish from, 163.
Smith, Hugh M., 148, 153.
Smith, M. M., 164.
fish drawings of, 61, 165, 169.
Smith, Peter, sent carp from brackish water, 164.
Smith, R. R., Arkansas antiquities from, 125.
Smith, Rosa, Pacific fishes from, 162, 171.
reptiles from, 158.
Smith, Sanderson, 198.
worked upon mollusea, 200.
Smith, Prof. S. I., 198.
papers of, 378.
mpeeved Albatross crustacea,
197.
researches of, 200.
returned crustacea, 190.
studying crustacea, 190.
Smith, William R., 65.
Smithsonian area at New Orleans, 51.
exhibit at Louisville, 49.
Institution at Cincinnati Exposition,
50

exploration for, 67.

participation in exposi-
tions, 3, 48.

unclassified material in,

Snakes and turtles, casts of, at Cincinnati, 50.
Snow, Professor, lent Crotalus lepidus, 158.
bunting, new, from Alaska, 358.
podura from Colorado, 185.
Maine, 187.
New Jersey, 185.
spectacles, 374.

INDEX.

Society of Naturalists E. U. S. meeting, 35.
American Taxidermists, gift from, 41.
Taxidermists’ meeting, 35.
Solders and other alloys, 242.
from Merchant & Co., 276.
Solomon Islands clubs, 119.
Sorex, 325.
Soricidz to be treated of, 135
Soundings by the Albatross, 199.
South America shells from Dr. Jones, 183.
American collections, 71.
pottery needed, 122.
Carolina ceremonial object, 124.
Chicago Bememer Works steel collection,
d e Ad
Rolling Mill Bessemer steel, 258.
Kensington Fish Culture Museum, boat
models from, 90.
Museum, collections from, 71.
policy, 9.
Side Club rainbow trout, 162.
Southern Indian basketry, 305.
sig checker-woven,
05.
States, fishes collected in, 173.
- type of bow, where used, 314.
Spanish ‘‘ galleon,” sketch of, 91.
mackerel hatching, 352.
Sparrow, new song, 373.
Spencer & McConey zine collection, 258.
Spherium, new species, 377.
Spices from Kew Gardens, 107.
Spinning and weaving processes studied, 83.
Spiriferina cristata, 206.
Spofford, H. W., 37.
Sponges and corals from fishing grounds, 190.
exhibited, 202.
from Florida and Dry Tortugas, 191.
McKesson & Robbins, 192.
Sporobolus for basket warps, 300.
Spratt, Joseph, made fish guano, 346.
Spruce roots for baskets, 295.
Squawberry in basketry, 303.
Squid, note on, 349.
Squier & Davis mound-pipe molds, 125.
Stalactites and stalagmites shown, 236.
obtained, 228.
Stalagmite marble, 228, 230.
Stalagmites from Austria, 229.
Standing rigging for fishing schooner, 95.
Stauds for mounted birds, 154.
Stanniferous wolfram in California, 252.
Star-fishes, dry, arrangement of, 202.
exhibited, 202.
Stassfurt salts, 240.
Statuary and vases installed, 35.
Steamers in the fisheries, 97.
Stearns & Co., drugs from, 75.
Stearns, John N., & Co., silk fabrics from, 81.
Stearns, Prof. R. E. C., 17.
antiquities from, 123.
assistant curator, 62, 179.
California collections from,

collection of mollusks, 181.

collection of mollusks, ex-
tent of, 62.

duties of, 179.

obtained District shells,

183.
paper by, 365.
preparing mollusks for

New Orleans, 62
presented copper ores, 239.
reptiles from, 158.
specimens from, 81,
Stearns, Silas, collected Pensacola fishes, 172.
Pensacola fishes from, 374.
contribution from, 66.
Steel collections, 257, 275.
exhibits catalogued, 245.
rail rolling specimens, 244.
tests of, 240.
Stejneger, Leonhard, 17.
assistant curator, 143.
assisting with new list of
birds, 150.
birds’ eggs from, 60.

Ee
INDEX.

Stejneger, Leonhard, birds from, 60.
eerie Siberian mammals,
explorations of, 69, 71.
mollusca from, 63, 350.
on Attu throwing-stick, 288.
selected birds for New Or-
leans, 152. |
sent seals, 151. |
whalesfrom, 131.
writings of, 366.
Steller’s sea-cow, extermination of, 366.
lion, obtained, 131.
Stenopoda cinerea from Florida, 186.
Stenops tardigradus obtained, 131.
Stenofomus from dolphin stomach, 324.
Sterling Hill mine ores, 259.
zine ore, 273.
Sterna nilotica, 366.
Sternoptychidz, note on, 372.
Steuart, C. A., 36.
implements delivered to, 126.
Stevenson, James, collected pottery, 121.
Indian objects from, 70.
Moki fetiches from, 116.
Zuii objects from, 116.
Stibuite obtained, 223.
Stimpson, W. G., assistance from, 133.
Stockholm, Royal Academy of, promises Vega
invertebrates, 196.
Stolley, George, fossils from, 216.
Stonaker, C. L., presented steel rails, &c., 239.
Stone buildings, pictures of, 228.
shown by colored photographs,

implements exhibited in New Orleans, 58. |
Stone, Hon. W. W.., jute from, 80.
Stoney, Lieut. G. M., 231.
collections of, 69.
ce i collecting outfit,

194.
rocks from, 66.
Storage cases, 27.
&c., list of, 27, 28.
Stover, E.S., sent carp from alkali water, 164.
Story, W. W., sent Italian marbles, 236.
Straits of Magellan shells, 71.
Strauch, John H., assisted to collect coal, 267.
sent mining scenes, 266.
Striped bass from Mississippi, 163.
in Mississippi, 347.
Strophites grandeva in Vevonian plant beds, 207.
Students and lectures, 33.
Study series, 24.
Sturgis, Appleton, gunny cloth from, 80.
Stutz, S., sent coal-washing pictures, 266.
Sueda diffusa for dyeing basketry, 301.
Sulphur balls (pyrites), 262.
collections, 272.
native, 272.
ores, 272.
preducts, 260.
Sulphuric acid from iron pyrite, 242, 260.
manufacture, 276.
collection, 261.
Sumner, Swaysey & Currier vessel models, 93.
Sumpter, Capt. T. W., rainbow trout from, 163.
Surinam, Bulimus and Ampullaria, from, 183.
insects and larve, 185.
Swain, Joseph, 379.
collected fishes, 173.
Venetian fishes, 173.
papers by, 375.
and Meek, Seth E., paper by, 379.
Swan, J. G., Bella Coula objects from, 115.
collected Puget Sound fishes, 171.
collections from, 57.
Graham Island peccary tusk from, 114.
Indian trap from, 113.
water craft from, 106.
Maka objects from, 115.
Massett and Skidegate objects from,
114, 115.
sent fishes, 164.
Haida specimen basket, 297.
Takoo dishes from, 114.
en Territory fishes from, |
347.

455

Swan, John D., sent minerals, 222.
Sweden boats obtained, 106.
geological map of, 227.
iron and steel manufacture, 241.
rocks from, 229.
__ Royal Museum, African whips from, 119.
Swedish Centennial Commission, boat model from,

cod-tishing vessel model, 103, 104.
commission, schooner model from, 104.
herring-tishing boat, 104.
rocks and geological map, 236.
Sweeny, T. W., work of, 47.
Syenite from Arkansas, 237.
Syringopora obtained from Utah, 204.

A be

Tablets for small specimens, 26.
Tack exhibit shown, 245.
Tacks collection, 240.
Takoo dishes, 114.
Tanner, Z. L., in charge of explorations, 197.
obtained bottom samples, 192.
Taos fetich, 116.
Tapa cloth from Polynesia, 119.
Tapestry Brussels carpets, 81.
from Roxbury, 83.
Tar palm-tree dugout for fishing, 87.
Tate Yama implements and clothing, 118.
Taxidermic work assisted by expositions, 59.
miscellaneons, 44, 45.
Taxidermists, 41.
American, meeting, 35.
Telegraphic time in Museum, 37.
Smithsonian, 37.
Telephone, underground, 37.
Telluride ores collections, 271.
Temperature and physical observations of Alba-
tross, 199.
of lecture room, 40.
Tennessee antiquities exhibited, 126.
obtained, 125.
basin fishes collected, 173, 176.
marble obtained, 228.
Tenth Census rocks, &c., 238.
Terra del Fuego invertebrates obtained, 192.
shells, 71.
Tertiary fossil plants, 220.
Teuthididew and Siganide, genera of, 372.
Teuthidoidea, genera of, 372.
Texas, ephemerid larva from, 185.
Textile exhibit at Louisville, 49.
fabrics, accessions to, 80.
and fibers from Kew Gardens, 80.
at Cincinnati, 51.
fibers.and fabrics, 79.
classified, 79.
from Jamaica, 80.
micro-photographed, 83.
vegetable, to be catalogued, 84.
industries collection, 342, 353.
condition of, 84.
specimens in, §4.
photographed, 83.
section, 16, 18, 79.
recommendations con-
cerning, 84.
researches, 83.
routine work, 83.
industry, evolution of, 54.
Textiles at New Orleans, 51.
classified by composition, &c., 80.
exhibited, 79.
from Guatemala and San Salvador, 80.
Thlinket Indian baskets, 295, 296.
objects, 114.
Thomas, Dr. Cyrus, pottery from, 121.
on mound explvration, 343, 379.
Thompson, Maj. Heber S., sent coal ornaments,
263

Thomsonite pebbles received, 221.
Throwing-stick, advantages of, 280.
areas, 279.
Cumberland Gulf type, 282.
distinguishing marks of, 281.
from Russian America, 284.
Fury and Hecla Straits type, 283.
456

Throwing-stick, Greenland type, 281.
illustrations, 281.
left-handed, 287.
locality marks of, 280.
mode of holding, 279.
modifications, 288.
at Nunivak, 286.
of Anderson River, 283.
Attu, 288.
Bristol Bay, 287.
East Siberia, 285.
Kadiak and Unalashka, 287.
Kotzebue Sound, 284.
Norton Sound, 286.
Navel and Cape Vancouver,
286.
Point Barrow, 283.
Prince William Sound, 287.
ear Clarence and Cape Nome,

Yukon River Eskimo, 286.
origin of, 283, 288.
philosophy of, 279.
relation to hand-rest, 289.
revelations, 281.
substituted by hand-rest, 288.
Ungava type, 281.
with peculiar index cavity, 284.
Throwing-sticks, catalogue of, 289.
classified, 288.
in National Museum, 279.
made by whites modified, 287.
paper on, mentioned, 57.
Thuja gigantea in basketry, 297.
Thurn, E.im, on British Guiana baskets, 306.
Thyridopteryx ephemerzformis, 361.
from Arkansas, 185.
Tierra del Fuego mollusks and shells, 182.
Tile-fish history, 349.
not rediscovered, 199.
Tin collections, 252, 271.
received, 253.
from Cash mines, 252.
cassiterite, 252.
North Carolina, 253.
stanniferous wolfram, 252.
Virginia, 252.
in Alabama, 252.
ores, 241.
and plate, 271.
from Alabama, 241.
Australasia, 245.
Dakota, 241.
Maine, 242.
North Carolina, 242.
Virginia, 241.
plate from stanniferous wolfram, 252.
of Welsh make, 253.
Tinné Indian basket ornamentation, 295.
basketry, 294.
Titlark, earliest name of American, 366.
Title of Part LI, 73.
Todd, H. L., drawings of, 169.
fish drawings of, 61, 165.
Tomkins, J. C., 268.
Toner lecture, 34.
Tortugas corals, &c., 70.
Tourmaline region of Maine visited, 223.
Townsend, Charles H., birds from, 60.
birds’ eggs from, 60.
collected California mam-
mals, 130, 131.
mammals collected by, 69.
reptiles from, 61, 157, 158.
sent Carboniferous fossils,
204,
Trachynotus goreensis weighing 36 pounds, 163.
Tracbhypterus arcticus obtained, 163.
Trap dike in granite, 229.
Trenton fossils, 207.
Triassic sandstone, 229.
Trilobite pupeniaaes 368.
Trinidad fishes obtained, 163.
Trinity Basin fishes collected, 178.
Tripoli collection, 244, 269.
True, Frederick W., 17, 18, 62, 277.
sete assistant director, 18,
133.

INDEX.

True, Frederick W., bought exotic mammals, 131.

curator, 59.

librarian, 19.

mammal report of, 129.

on a spotted dolphin, 317.
Florida muskrat, 325.
mammals for New Or-

leans, 343.
papers of, 136,367.
eee porpoise fisheries,

studying ceraaee in Europe,
135.

mammals in Eu-
rope, 182.
and Lucas, F. A., on
chus tropicalis, 331.
Tufas from Mr. Russell, 236.
Turbinella pyrum, classification of, 183.
relations of, 181.
Turdus aliciz in Palearctic region, 366.
Turner, L. M., 279, 282, 287.
birds from, 60.
collected Labrador mammals, 130.
collections from, 68.
Eskimo bows from, 307.
explorations of, 68.
fishes from, 61, 162.
insects from, 63, 187.
lent Ungava throwing-stick, 281.
mollusks collected by, 181.
report of, 68.
throwing-sticks from, 286, 289.
Ungava collections from, 57.
Turner, H. W., sent reptiles, 158.
Tursio Doris, 323.
Tursiops tursio, 320, 324.
obtained, 132.
Turtles, mounting of, 353.
Twilling in basketry, 299.
Twines from Bailey & Co., 80.
Type-metal collection, 242, 268, 276.

Dis

“Mona-

Unakite and diabase from Virginia, 228.

Unalashka throwing-stick, 287.

Ungava birds received, 60.

insects received, 63.
(Labrador) throwiug-stick, 281.
throwing-stick related to Alaskan forms,
281.
Ungulata mounted in 1884, 42.
renovated, 41, 44.
secured in 1804, 44.
Union Stone Company sent corumdrum, emery,
&c., 269.

U.S. Census Bureau, fisheries enumerated for, 171.
Coast Survey dredging appliances, 356.
eastern explorations, 70.
educational museums, 10.

Exploring Expedition corals, 202.

shells, 181.

Fish Commission, California collections, 69.
captured porpoises, 132.
collected West Indian

bats, 130,
collections, 70.
Copepoda, 355.
dredging appliances, 356.
experiments in embryol-
ogy, 72.
explorations, 197.
explorations for fishes, 169.
fish-cultural exhibit, 342,

352.

invertebrate collections,
189, 190.

invertebrates cared for,
193.

invertebrates distributed,
195.

invertebrates from Alba-
tross, 189. °

Londou Fisheries collec-
tions, 341.

mammals, 129.
mollusks to arrive, 181.
J ie eel

”

INDEX.

U.S. Fish Commission, new fishes from, 347.
: ‘ Pacific fishes collected for,
171.
reptiles from, 61.
schooner model, 103.
secured fin-back whale's
skull, 132.
sent deep-sea fishes, 163.
summer exploring partics,

summer station, 197.
West Indian fishes from,

Geological Survey chemical work, 224.

eurator assigned from,
179.

fossils, 64, 203.

inscets from, 186.

Monograph VIII quoted,
205.

Rey eatected minerals.
99

presented Paleozoic fos
sils, 208.
relation to Mesozoic fos-
sils, 2715.
rocks obtained from, 234.
transferred Paleozoic fos-
sils, 210.
tufas, 236.
Life-Saving Service specimens, 346.
stations, suggestions to keepers
of, 367.
National Museum Bulletins, 340.
fish distribution by, 171.
Revenue Marine, mollusk collections of, 1*!.
Signal Bureau, mollusks from, 63.
obtained Alaskan mammals,
130.
steamer Enterprise, bottom samples, 192.
Unity of administration, 15.
enemy E. P., 16.
rsid@ repaired, 44.
Ursus arctos from Siberia, 131.
Utah aboriginal pottery, 121.
evada, new shells from, 182.
Anodonta and Physa from, 184.
antimony ores, 253.
Basin fishes collected, 178.
bismuth ores, 257.
insects obtained, 187.
Lake fishes collected, 72.
mines collections, 244.
ores, 241.
reptiles from Dr. Yarrow, 61, 157.
rocks and tufas from I. C. Russell, 230,
silver ores, 250.
Ute basket trays, 302.
water bottles, 302.

Vis

Van Beneden & Gervais, 320.
Vases repaired, 122.
Vega Expedition Eskimo objects, 112.
Vegetable fibers, 79.
catalogued, 84.
Velvet carpet specimens, 82.
Venezuela minerals, 240.
plants and animals, 71.
Venice fishes collected, 61, 162, 171, 172, 175.
Ventilation of lecture room, 39, 41.
Venus mercenaria, pear) from, 182.
Vermont marbles obtained, 228.
shown, 236.
Verrill, Prof. A. E., m charge of zoological inves -
tigations, 198.
papers of, 379.
reported on sea-bottom ma-
terials, 199.
researches of, 200.
returned marine
ae. a4 ;
studying anthozoa, 190, 197.
__espertilio arsinoé from Kansas, 130
Vessel and boat fittings stored, 96.
equipment material stored, 96.
equipments obtained. 85.

inverte-

157

Vessel fittings, 96.
models and equipments collected, 85,
from Jolin N. Cushing 93.
London Fisheries Exhibition,
97.
Vessels, boats, and models exhibited, 98.
color sketches of, 85.
merchant, photographed, 85,
oil paintings of, 86.
pictures of, needed, 99.
. sketch and prints of, 86. -
Virginia marble, 229.
Visitors, increase of, 32.
record of, by months, 32.
to Museum, 32.
Smithsonian, 32.

| Vivaria, 72.

| Walker, Samuel T.,

Vivianite obtained, 223.
Voleanic ashes, 229, 230.
sand from Bogosloff, 231.
Voleano island in Alaska, 350.
Vorticella, chlorophylloid granules of, 365.

Ws

Waddell, R. J., & Co., polishing materials, 276.

5 sent collection, 26%.
Wagtail, yellow, from Nushagak, 69.
Wainwright's Inlet Eskimo bow, 310.

Walcott, Charles D., 17, 64.
administrative duties of, 209.
contributed Hamilton group
fossils, 203.
engaged in field work, 208.
Geological Survey, duties of,
208.
geological work of, 205.
in relation to U. 5. Geologi-
cal Survey, 205.
minerals from, 223.
report of, 64, 203.
work of, 64.
writings of, 368.
Walker, Charles, reptiles from, 158.
Walker, John, reptiles from, 158.
on fossil bones, 380.
Wallace Brothers, drugs from, 76.

| Wallet of the Klamath and McLeo dIndians, 300.

Walrus leathers, 47.
Pacific, obtained, 131.
Walther, Henry, 121, 122.
Walters, F. G., Ree hoe from, 116.
War canoe, British\Columbia, 106.
ship models needed, 99.
Ward, Charles W., on Ardea wardi, 380.
Ward, H. A., Berardius skull from, 131.
mammals bought trom, 130, 131.

| Ward, Lester, F.; 17.

collected rocks and fossil woods,
230.
report of, 65, 219.
writings of, 368.
Ward & Howell sent minerals, 223.
Warren & Stearns secured dolphin, 317.
Washboard slate (Ulodendron) received, 263.
Washington Dime Museum sent monkeys, 131.
Washington, George, cast of, 45.
Washington Monument cap-stone, 229.
Territory fishes, 347.
insects obtained, 185.
water-works extension soiland rocks,
229,
Washoe district, Nevada, geology of, 234.

_ Water birds of North America, 346.

rearranged, 150.
bottles of coiled and whipped structure,
302.
Shoshones, 302.
Waterlime group fossil from New York, 205.

, Waters, William, assisted to collect coal, 268.

watts, J. J.. sent Productus semireticulatus, 204.

Webb, Henry, 92.

Webb, John, sent minerals, 222.

Webb, William H., 92.

Webster, F. 5., prepared mammals, 134.

Webster, Prof. Henry E., on Bermuda annolida,
340, 381.

Weeks, F. W., ship model from, 94.
458

Welsh tin plates, 242, 253.
Werth, J. R., 268.
West Indian bats presented, 130.
birds from the Albatross, 60.
collections of Albatross, 197.
Islands invertebrates received, 189.
reptiles obtained, 61.
seal, 331. -
West Virginia coal and associates, 262.
Western Eskimo bow, peculiar backing of, 313.
. type of bow where used, 314.
Eskimo bows, 313.
Whale-boat model, 56.
cast of ziphioid, 133,
fishery and its appliances, 341.
exhibit at Louisville, 49.
in River Tay, 349.
Whales and porpoises, how collected and pre-
served, 367.
toothed, proposed monograph of, 135.
ziphioid, obtained, 131.
Wharton, Mr., contribution from, 6%.
Wheeler, Lieut. G. M., antiquities from, 123, 126,
127.
sent Secaphiocrinus, 203,
204

Whitcomb, George D., presented photograph, 265.
White, Dr. C. A., 17, 64.
arrow-heads from, 124.
papers of, 370.
report of, 215.
White, Dr. J. A., arrow-heads from, 124.
Whitefish, Nelson’s, 347.
new Alaskan, 347.
White fishes of North America, 347.
lead by corrosion process, 254.
from the ore, 254.
paints, 241.
paint from ore, 243.
pine shale fauna of Nevada, 206.
shales, position of, 206.
Whitfield, Edward, chemical work of, 224.
Whiting, S. B., assisted to collect, 267.
Whitman, W., courtesies of, 83.
Whitney, Eli, cotton-gin medel from, 83.
Whitney, J. D., 346.
Whittenton Manufacturing Company ginghams,
82.
Wilcox, F. E., Arapahoe saddle-bags from, 116.
Wilcox, Crittenden & Co., collections from, 96.
Wild wheat in basketry, 295.
Wiley, Prof. Harvey W.., lecture by, 34.
Wilkes Exploring Expedition collections, 6.

models of canoes, |

&e., 105.
Wilkie’s Monachus tropicalis, 331.
Wilkinson, Ensign Ernest, 225.
Willcox, Joseph, lent minerals, 221.
minerals from, 65, 221.
minerals installed, 223.
Willow splints in basketry, 301.
Wilson, D. B., Kiowa shield from, 116.
‘Wilson, Thomas, exchange with, 126.
‘Wilton carpet samples, 82.
Windlass, steam, models, 95.
Window glass abraded by sand, 230.
‘Winnebago medicine man’s club, 116.
Winslow Laisnt Francis, on London Fisheries mol-
" lusks, 341.
the oyster, 381.
‘Wire-drawing illustrations, 241. }
Wisconsin antiquities exbibited, 126.
obtained, 123.
é fishes collected, 170.
Wittfeld, William, new mammal from, 130.
sent Florida muskrat, 325.
Witzel, Ensign H. M., assisted Mr. Dewey, 276.
Wood, George H., favors from, 267.
Woodpecker, new, from Kamtchatka, 366.
Wood’s Holl fishes, journal upon, 165.
obtained, 173.
laboratory facilities, 198.
new laboratory, 198.
shells received, 183.
station of Fish Commission, 197.
Woollen goods, samples, 82.

INDEX.

Woolfe, D., mining Arctic coal, 69.
Workshop built, 36.
Worsted fabrics from England, 80.
Hanifen & Co., 81.

yarn manufacture illustrations, 81.
Worsteds from Pacific Mills, 82.
Wren, Alaska willow, from Nushagak, 69.
Wrought iron from ore, 257.

¥:

Yarn manufacture illustrations, 81, 82.
samples, 81.
Yarrow, Dr. H. C:, 17.
aboriginal pottery from, 121.
antiquities collected by, 123.
collected Utah reptiles, 157.
honorary curator, 60.
paper by, 370.
report of, 157. °
visits Utah, 60.
Yeates, W. S., 17.
collecting trips of, 66.
field expeditions of, 222.
mineral work of, 225.
North Carolinarocks, &c., from, 229.
Yellowstone National Park, model, 234.
Yokohama antiquities, 124.
baskets, 118.
Yucatan birds from Mr. Gaumer;71.
Indian collections, 57.
investigations, 70.
Yucea baskets and trays of the Mokis, 304.
brevifolia, 81.
in basketry, 303.
Yukon delta bow from W. H. Dall, 312.
resembling Arctic type, 312.
Eskimo bows described, 308.
Indian trap, 113.
River Eskimo throwing-stick, 286.

Z.

Zalophus californianus obtained, 161.
Zeledon, José C., Costa Rican collections from, 71.
reptiles from, 158.
sent Costa Rican mammals, 130.
Zenaidura yucatanensis, note on, 356.
Zine blende from Missouri, 258.
furnaces collections, 259, 273.
methods and materials, 274.
iron and manganese smelting, 275.
or spelter smelting collections, 258.
ore from, Missouri, 244.
processes, 260.
products, 260.
ores, 241, 243, 272.
and their treatment, 274.
from Mossy Creek, 242.
products of, 274. :
paint from Page & Kranse, 244.
silicate and carbonate ores of, 258.
smelting collection from Glendale Work,

259.

Granby Works
259.

Joplin Works, 203.

Kansas, 259,

Langon Works,
259.

collections, 275:
works described, 2738.
photographs of, 274.

| Ziphioid whales received, 131.

Ziphius from Bering Island, 131.

Zonites cellarius from Oregon, 183.

Zoological gardens contribut® mammals, 59, 129.

nomenclature, 352.
Zoology, division of, 17, 59.
progress in, 372.

Zukoski, E. L., collected Bessemer steel, 258.
copper ores, 254, 255.
Illinois coals, 267.

collections of, 243, 252.
Zui basketry, 304.
* objects, 116.
Zygonectes zonifer from Georgia, 375.

* ‘é T
Lele 7) Canny
4 FS i + t

, *

a SSD) > >> oD —e > + ir

D> Bea Be 3335 Py
> ). > PDI DD

E>») YD) YD)
DW ID DDIDIY 3p
YD) I DID WDD Ww
YD DD IY _Y D»»)) ») D> »
YP DIDDY) DI» DW D
YI» DD YY D)) Dboi D> 3 >. )
)») 2D P22 2 DDD? D)
» WD. DW) DY) WDM DD)
: YD) Dy Dd s SD D DY WD?)
py PIP SED) Wy» Dy)
> DDD DD) Dw») BD Dy)
: > DDD)» DDD DW. DD»
> DDD» DD » DD DD)
> DDD») DYyd>” 2» 2
3. DYDD) DDD » DH)
>) D» yD» DoDD». Dapp):
DD ID») DH D D DWM.
Dy» POD») VW» »»y
>> DYDD YH DD DY _ I) » LBS BY
> DDD DD DDD I YI)
IDDM DD 2> >» J yD DID
>) DYDD IID)» YD».
>) DD) DID DD ID)» 3 py»
D>) DIM DD) DD DD)» YD D>
D>) D)») oy DTD DID D
DD DY) DD) WD WW)» ww)
DY) DY) DDD 0D) My)

Fk ————e—<-.

SJ
hin i

CAAA AA eA OO oh Oh aM
“i Ma ee dd ee ee eee
RRMA AMAR KA A
ee dai at a x 660666 GON
me ee em a
a dd dd eo ds ee Me ie
eee ee eee eee ee hah eh ee a ye
Wha dd dd WM Me a eek
TORRN AS ACCRA RR RMN
Yee eReRE RE OREO Reh Bh he a a yh
TAGE RA CREAMER A ek
eM ee eK
CEE RRRERER ERY R DED SR EDD ED
WORN MOM ee ee eee x
TiRR MAA EMSA A 8 en ie
eee ROLE ERE DRO a hh BD oh a hn es
TRUPER ENERO SORE EE SO DD bad be
VERE RERES RESO beh RS) hk Dh eae
MNAAM AURA ANG ea
WAaN COMA eR eee
aA 8 a A Gai ss A AAA!
Lite Cee ee ee ed
PAA AR AMARA A A 8
RRO ROOP ROR ERED ODED DS DOR ee ee
TAR AAA ARON eS eM ee
WERE EMME ER ERE DD OO eh bb oOo heh
“LER O PUREE POUD EDR ERODE ED OE DD
RRR RORERER RS SRD UD DDD DOD ee
COR RRRUR URES OP POO SD YD Yk kh D
RRR RORER OR ORD SOR Dh DS hh ee he
EERE RPP EERE RS ORNS Dt hh bh
eee eROuR ERRNO REEDS DO a oh hb
(AMMA A ARR ee
(eee ea MG de
SRNR ORES EWE ER SB be Sb bb kb re hl
: t ee es . a" a" a" a" . ‘. a .. < < a ¥, ¥, <a +, an - a »,
Wied RRR AMM AM

aa

ee
ica
“aoe
ree,
gets
Pah? C3

q
:
¥

aan 8 aan
. | AAs 3 digiat a

SSS 2.5555 2 we
: oe Verena

j

FS
a
, 4

vent,
y 4)
Koa

wie ata!

een we

yyy

s 3 3 |
een
Ceeenaenn

Yryrry Pt Ae

pores

i

or

<
as

a
——-) 6) )60lClUu oe

i. =

oO —~_e
