La

f Be
3 x pe?
- “

‘ en y ne

eo
% -

BSS

Ty Ava: MET Y
5, at dvb SS
)

Bis) 3
aa \
st *) i ap NR > ,
i Ay Q
POE ee he ae Ae,
i
(

=

Ss
ee
Sy FA BS>

a
—_ -s
a

¢

= ere

Kes, =

chad leat Mae oo

=
P ae
= er : a pe "

a

/ 1
ANNUAL REPORT

, OF THE

Beer: OF WGd N is

OF THE

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION,

SHOWING

THE OPERATIONS, EXPENDITURES, AND CONDITION OF THE INSTITUTION
FOR THE YEAR 1876.

WASHINGTON:
GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE.
1876.
The following resolution was agreed to in the Senate, April 20, 1876, and concurred
in by the House of Representatives May 24, 1876:

Resolved by the Senate (the House of Representatives concurring,) That ten thousand five
hundred copies of the Report of the Smithsonian Institution for the year 1875 be
printed, one thousand copies of which shall be for the use of the Senate, two thousand
copies of which shall be for the use of the House of Representatives, and seven thou-
sand five hundred copies for the use of the Smithsonian Institution : Provided, That
the aggregate number of pages shall not exceed four hundred and fifty, and that there
shall be no illustrations, except those furnished by the Smithsonian Institution.
LETTER

FROM THE

SECRETARY OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION,

TRANSMITTING

The annual report of the Smithsonian Institution for the year 1875.

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION,
Washington, April 7, 1876.
Str: In behalf of the Board of Regents, I have the honor to submit
to the Congress of the United States the annual report of the opera-
tions, expenditures, and condition of the Smithsonian Institution for
the year 1875. .
I have the honor to be, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
JOSEPH HENRY,
Secretary Smithsonian Institution.
Hon. T. W. FERRY,
President of the Senate.
Hon. M. C. KERR,
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
ANNUAL REPORT OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION FOR 1875.

This document contains:

1. The annual report of the Secretary, giving an account of the opera-
tions and condition of the establishment for the year 1875, with the sta-
tistics of collections, exchanges, &e. ,

2. The report of the executive committee, exhibiting the financial
affairs of the Institution, including a statement of the Smithson fund,
the receipts and expenditures for the year 1875, and the estimates for .
1876.

3. The proceedings of the Board of Regents for the session of Jan-
uary, 1876.

4, A general appendix, consisting principally of translations from for-
eign journals or works not generally accessible, but of interest to the
collaborators and correspondents of the Institution, teachers, and others
interested in the promotion of knowledge.
THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION.

ULYSSES S. GRANT, President of the United States, ex officio Presiding Officer.

MORRISON R. WAITE, Chief Justice of the United States, Chancellor of the Insti-

tution, (President of the Board of Regents.)
JOSEPH HENRY, Secretary, (or Director of the Institution.)

RG PNAS OR VE EN Sarin Ur LON:

MORRISON R. WAITE, Chief Justice of the United States, President of the Board.
T. W. FERRY, acting Vice-President of the United States.

H. HAMLIN, member of the Senate of the United States.

J. W. STEVENSON, member of the Senate of the United States.
A. A. SARGENT, member of the Senate of the United States.
HIESTER CLYMER, member of the House of Representatives.
BENJAMIN H. HILL, member of the House of Representatives.
GEO. W. McCRARY, member of the House of Representatives.
JOHN MACLEAN, citizen of New Jersey.

PETER PARKER, citizen of Washington.

ASA GRAY, citizen of Massachusetts.

J. D. DANA, citizen of Connecticut.

HENRY COPPEE, citizen of Pennsylvania.

GEORGE BANCROFT, citizen of Washington.

EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE OF THE BOARD OF REGENTS.

PETER PARKER. JOHN MACLEAN. GEORGE BANCROFT.

MEMBERS EX OFFICIO OF THE INSTITUTION.

U.S. GRANT, President of the United States.

T. W. FERRY, Vice-President of the United States.
M. R. WAITE, Chief Justice of the United States.
H. FISH, Secretary of State.

B. H. BRISTOW, Secretary of the Treasury.
ALPHONSO TAFT, Secretary of War.

G. M. ROBESON, Secretary of the Navy.
MARSHALL JEWELL, Postmaster-General.

Z. CHANDLER, Secretary of the Interior.

E. PIERREPONT, Attorney-General.

R. H. DUELL, Commissioner of Patents.

on
OFFICERS AND ASSISTANTS OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTI-
TUTION AND NATIONAL MUSEUM.

JOSEPH HENRY, Secretary, Director of the Institution.

SPENCER F. BAIRD, Assistant Secretary and Curator of the National Museum.
WILLIAM J. RHEES, Chief Clerk.

CLARENCE B. YOUNG, Clerk in charge of Accounts.

DANIEL LEECH, Clerk in charge of Correspondence.

HERMANN DIEBITSCH, Clerk in charge of Exchanges.

J. A. TURNER, Clerk in charge of Library.

M. E. GRIFFIN, Clerk in charge of Distribution of Publications.

8. G. BROWN, Clerk in charge of Freight.

Prof. G. B. GOODE, Assistunt Curator of the National Museum. —
Prof. F. M. ENDLICH, in charge of Mineralogical Division.
Prof. ROBERT RIDGWAY, in charge of Ornithological Division.
Prof. W. H. DALL, in charge of Conchological Division.

Prof. EDW. FOREMAN, in charge of Ethnological Division.

T. W. SMILLIE, Photographer.

JOSEPH PALMER, TYawidermist.

Prof. THEODORE GILL, Resident Collaborator in General Zoology.
Prof. F. B. MEEK, Resident Collaborator in Paleontology.

Prof. E. COUES, Resident Collaborator in Mammalogy and Ornithology.
Prof. CHAS. RAU, Resident Collaborator in Ethnology.

Prof. O. T. MASON, Resident Collaborator in Ethnology.

JOSEPH HERRON, Janitor.
REPORT OF PROFESSOR HENRY, SECRETARY OF THE SMITH-
SONIAN INSTITUTION, FOR 1876.

To the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution :

GENTLEMEN: I have the honor herewith to present to your honorable
board the report of the condition and operations of the Smithsonian
Institution during the year 1875. In presenting this report, Iam happy
to be able to inform you that nothing has occurred since the close of
your last session which in the least degree has interfered with the pros-
perity of this establishment. On the contrary, it will be manifest from
the report that the Institution has continued with unabated energy to
carry out the intention of its founder, as expressed in the terms of his
will, by increasing and diffusing knowledge among men.

The several annual reports of the Secretary are intended to form a
continuous history of the Institution, and, therefore, it is necessary to
state, what is already known to the Regents, that since the date of the
last report several changes have taken place in the board. Among the
first of these we have to mention is that occasioned by the death of the
late Vice-President of the United States, Hon. Henry Wilson. He was
ex-officio a member of the board, and took part in the deliberations of its
last session. In his death science and education have lost a warm
friend, who always exerted his influence for their advancement. He
ever advocated all propositions submitted to Congress for explorations
and researches which might extend the bounds of knowledge. In two
previous instances of vacancy in the office of Vice-President, the place
in the Board of Regents was supplied first by the Hon. L. F. 8. Foster,
of Connecticut, and, second, by the Hon. B. F. Wade, presiding officers
at the time of the Senate. In conformity with this usage, the place of
Mr. Wilson will be filled by the Hon. T. W. Ferry.

The Speaker of the House of Representatives, in accordance with the
law of organization of the Institution, has filled the vacancies occasioned
by the expiration of the term of service of Messrs. Cox, Hoar, and Ha-
zelton, by the appointment as Regents from the House of Representa-
tives of the Hon. Hiester Clymer, of Pennsylvania, Hon. B. H. Hill, of
Georgia, and the Hon. G. W. McCrary, of Iowa.

The operations of the Institution at present consist principally of two
classes: first, of those relating to the immediate objects of the bequest,
viz, the increase and diffusion of knowledge among men, through re-
searches, publications, and exchanges; and, second, those which per-
tain to the care and management of the Government collections in nat-

7
8 § REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

ural history and ethnology, constituting the National Museum, of which
the Institution is the custodian. In regard to the latter, the operations
and responsibilities of the directors have been greater than ever before.
Congress, at its last session, not only made the usual appropriation of
$20,000 for the care of the museum, $10,000 for cases, and $2,500 for an
extension of the heating-apparatus, but also, in addition to these sums,
granted $67,000 for the display of the collections of the National Mu-
seum at the Centennial Exhibition in Philadelphia. A part of this latter
sum, however, was reserved for the payment of a portion of the cost of
a temporary building for the exhibition of the articles belonging to the
Government, leaving about $50,000 for the display by the Institution.
This latter appropriation was made in connection with a series of appro-
priations to enable the several Departments of the Government, as well
as the Smithsonian Institution, to participate in the Exhibition. Each
of these parties was directed to appoint a representative, the whole
forming an executive board, to which was to be given the power to con-
trol the disbursements of the appropriations; the bills to be paid by a
disbursing-officer, upon vouchers certified by the respective representa-
tives, and countersigned by the chairman of the board. Although the
appropriation in question was made by Congress to enable the Institu-
tion to discharge certain duties, it was by the arrangement above men-
tioned relieved from all responsibility as to the expenditure of the
money.

To Prof. Spencer F. Baird, Assistant Secretary of the Institution, I
assigned the duty of i epuaenene it in the Government board of ele
itors. He has with much energy devoted his time and thoughts to the
work, and has prepared a report, a copy of which is herewith presented,
of what has been done on the part of the Institution to carry out the
intention of Congress.

The results of the operations of the Institution in connection with
the Centennial Exhibition will probably have a much greater effect
on the future of the establishment than is at first sight apparent. The
large number of specimens which have been collected by the several
Departments of Government and by the Institution itself in view of this
Exhibition will greatly increase the contents of the National Museum, and
if we add to these the specimens which will be presented by foreign
powers, of which we have already had intimations, the number will be
swelled to an extent far beyond the capacity of the present building to
contain them, and an additional edifice will be required for their accom-
modation.

In the consideration of this matter, the questions will arise whether
the building required shall consist of an extension of the present Smith-
sonian edifice, or an entirely separate building; and these questions will
involve another, viz, whether it is advisable to continue, at least with-
out some modification, the connection which now exists between the
Smithsonian Institution and the National Museum.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 9

In regard to the first question, I may be allowed to say that as the
Smithsonian Institution was compelled by an act of Congress to erect
the present building, which has cost in all nearly $500,000, principally for
the accommodation of the National Museum, it would now be manifestly
unjust to the former establishment to transfer the specimens, as has
been proposed, from the present edifice to the new building contemplated
for the accommodation of the National Library. The plan, theretore,
which, in my opinion, should be adopted is for the Government to take
entire possession of the present edifice, making such additions to it from
time to time as would be required for the care and exhibition of the
increasing collections, and to repay the Smithsonian Institution for at
least a portion of the cost of the building, the latter to erect a sepa-
rate edifice in the vicinity, better suited to its wants, with a portion
of the money thus repaid, the remainder being added to the principal
of the Smithson fund.

In regard to the second question, whether the connection which now
exists between the National Museum and the Smithsonian Institution
should continue as it is without modification, I would say that it is
desirable that a more definite distinction between the two establishments,
if not an entire separation, should be made.

According to the existing arrangement, it is necessary that the Insti-
tution should apply to Congress every year for an appropriation for the
support of the museum, and it is therefore presented to the world as a
suppliant for perpetual aid, whereas, for carrying out the legitimate ob-
jects of the bequest, no annual appropriation is necessary from the public
Treasury; for although more than one-half of the whole income of the
Smithson bequest has been devoted to a museum and other local. ob-
jects, it has succeeded (through its researches, its publications, and
its exchanges) in establishing a reputation as extensive as the civilized
world; and I doubt not, from the disposition which Congress has pre-
viously shown to faithfully discharge the duty which it has devolved
upon itself in accepting the guardianship of a trust for the benefit of
mankind, it will not refuse, when the public finances are in a better
condition, to repay to the Smithson fund at least a portion of the amount
which, through a misapprehension of the will of the founder, has been
devoted to the National Museum, and also to make such separate pro-
vision for the maintenance of the latter establishment as will obviate
the necessity of a constant appeal to Congress, on the part of the Insti-
tution, for aid not necessary for its own operations.

Furthermore, the museum is destined to an extension far beyond its
present magnitude. It is an object of much interest to all who visit the
National Capital, and is of great value as exhibiting the natural re-
sources of the country, as well as a means of public education; and as
Smithson intended the Institution founded by his bequest as a monu-
ment to himself, since he gave it his own name, it is not proper that it
should be merged in any establishment of the Government, nor, on the
10 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

other hand, is the Government called upon to make annual appropria-
tions for the advance of science to be credited toan establishment founded
by an individual to perpetuate his own memory. The Smithson fund
should be exclusively devoted to the increase and diffusion of knowledge
among men in the manner best calculated to produce the desired effect,
and its operations should be as little complicated as possible with those
of Government establishments.

FINANCES.

The following is a statement of the condition of the fonds at the
beginning of the year 1876:

The amount originally received as the bequest of James

Smithson, of England, deposited in the Treasury of the

United States in accordance with the act of Congress of

USSG MOMTSLG SENS TEL a ie ee ones $515, 169 00
The residuary legacy of Smithson, received in 1865, depos-

ited in the Treasury of the United States, in accordance

with the act of Congress of February 8, 1867.......--. 26,210 63

Lotalbeqnuestjoti Smithsoneeeics ce outa te es 541,379 63
Amount deposited in the Treasury of the United States,
as authorized by act of Congress of February 8, 1867, de-
rived from savings of income and increase in value of

IME SUMOENES & 15.214 s-.<10:5, hate e ears ace eae ee ome szieins LOS) 620 cond,
Amount received as the bequest of James Hamilton, of
@arlisle; Pa, Mebruaryyce lei eeactells sii ai ee res 1,000 00

Total permanent Smithson fund in the Treasury of

the United States, bearing interest at 6 per cent.,
payable semi-annually in gold...................- 651, 000 00

In addition to the above, there remains of the extra fund

from savings, &c., in Virginia bonds and certificates,

viz: consolidated bonds, $58,700; deferred certificates,

$29,375.07; fractional certificate, $50.13; total $88,125.20,

HOW ValUCd Ab. occas Meer eee ao arg eee eee 42,000 00
Cash balance in United States Treasury at the Beenie
of the year 1876 forcurrent expenses----.-.----------~- 20,555 82

Amount due from First National Bank, Washington,
$2,056.23, (present value unknown.)

Total Smithson funds January 20, 1876........-.-- 713, 555 82

The receipts during the year were $51,388.20, and the expenditures
$46,809.98, leaving a balance of $4,578.22 to be added to the balance
on hand at the beginning of the year 1875.

The interest on the Hamilton bequest has been received from Feb-
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. ja

ruary 24, 1874, to December 31, 1875, amounting to $118.49, which will
be expended in accordance with the will of the donor.

The interest on the Virginia bonds collected during the year amounted
to $4,750.11.

It was stated in the last report that at the time of the suspension of
the First National Bank of Washington, (19th September, 1873,) in
which the current funds had been deposited by direction of the board,
there were $8,224.87 to the eredit of the Institution. The following divi-
dends have been received on this deposit: November 11, 1873, 50 per
cent.; on the 7th April, 1874, 20 per cent.; on the 5th May, 1875, 10
per cent.; and on the 27th December, 1875, 15 per cent., or a total of

92

75 per cent., or $6,168.64, leaving a balance still due of $2,056.23.
PUBLICATIONS.

The publications of the Institution are of three classes, viz: the Con-
TRIBUTIONS TO KNOWLEDGE, the MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS, and
the ANNUAL REPORTS. The first consist of memoirs containing posi-
tive additions to science resting on original research, and which are
generally the result of investigations to which the Institution has, in
some way, rendered assistance. The Miscellaneous Collections are
composed of works intended to facilitate the study of branches of
natural history, meteorology, &c., and are designed especially to induce
individuals to engage in these studies as specialties. The Annual
Reports, besides an account of the operations, expenditures, and con-
dition of the Institution, contain translations from works not generally
accessible to American students, reports of lectures, extracts from cor-
respondence, &e.

The following are the rules which have been adopted for the distribu-
tion of the several publications of the Institution:

1st. They are presented to learned societies of the first class which
in return give complete series of their publications to the Institution.

2d. To libraries of the first class which give in exchange their cata-
jlogues and other publications, or an equivalent from their duplicate
volumes.

od. To colleges of the first class which furnish catalogues of their
libraries and of their students, and all other publications relative to
their organization and history.

4th. To States and Territories, provided they give in return copies of
all documents published under their authority.

5th. To public libraries in this country, containing 15,000 volumes,
especially if no other copies are given in the same place; and to smaller
libraries where a large district would be otherwise unsupplied.

6th. To institutions devoted exclusively to the promotion of particu-
lar branches of knowledge are given such Smithsonian publications as
relate to their respective objects.

7th. The Annual Reports are presented to the meteorological observ-
aD, REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

ers, to contributors of valuable material to the library or collections,
and to persons engaged in special scientific research.

The distribution of the publications of the Institution is a matter
which requires much care and judicious selection, the great object
being to make known to the world the traths which may result from
the expenditure of the Smithson fund. For this purpose, the principal
class of publications, namely, the Contributions, must be so distributed
as to be accessible to the greatest number of readers, aud this will
evidently be to large central libraries.

The volumes of Contributions are presented to institutions on the
express condition that, while they are carefully preserved, they shall be
accessible at all times to students and others who may desire to consult
them, and be returned to the Institution in case the establishments to
which they are presented at any time cease to exist. These works, it
must be recollected, are not of a popular character, but require pro-
found study to fully understand them; they are, however, of importance
to the professional teacher and the popular expounder of science. They
contain materials from which general treatises on special subjects may
be elaborated.

The publications of the Institution during the past year have been
less in number than in preceding years, but this has not been on account
of want of materials, but because most of the resources of the Institu-
tion have been devoted to the completion of two volumes of the quarto
series, which are nearly ready for the binder, one of which will be cred-
ited to 1875 and the other to 1876.

The twentieth volume of the Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge
will consist entirely of the discussion of a series of tabular results relative
to the “* Winds of the Globe,” prepared at the expense of the Institution
by the late Prof. James H. Coffin, of Lafayette College, Pennsylvania, and ~
completed by his son, Prof. Selden J. Coffin, with the assistance of Dr.
Alex. J. Weikof, of the Imperial Geographical Society of Russia.

The twenty-first volume of the Smithsonian Contributions to Knowl-
edge will be made up of the following papers, viz:

Statement and Exposition of Certain Harmonies of the Solar System.
By Prof. Stephen Alexander, of the College of New Jersey. 4to. 104
pp.

On the General Integrals of Planetary Motion. By Simon Newcomb,
professor of mathematics, United States Navy. 4to. 40 pp.

The Haidah Indians of Queen Charlotte’s Island, British Columbia,
with a brief description of their carvings, tattoo designs, &e. By
James G. Swan, Port Townsend, Wash. Ter. 4to. 22 pp. 7 plates.

Tables, Distribution, and Variations of the Atmospheric Temperature
in the United States and some adjacent parts of America. Collected
by the Smithsonian Institution and discussed under the direction of
Joseph Henry, Secretary. By Charles A. Schott, assistant United States
Coast Survey. 4to. pp. 360. 9 diagrams, 2 plates, 3 charts.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 1)

These papers have all been described in previous reports, and, with
the exception of the last, that on Temperatures, have been distributed
separately to individuals and institutions especially interested in the
subjects to which they relate.

The publication of the Antiquities of Tennessee, mentioned in pre-
vious reports, has been deferred in order to give the author an opportu-
nity of revising the work and abridging it by omitting a large amount
of bibliographical matter which could scarcely be published under the
title of contributions to knowledge, since it is already in print. The
illustrations, however, for the work have been engraved, and it will be
put to press as soon as the revision is completed.

The engravings for the work on Lucernaria, by the late Prof. H.
J. Clark, have been completed, with the exception of one plate, which
was so badly executed that it was thought necessary to reject it. As
soon as this is satisfactorily engraved, the work will be put to press and
will form a part of the Contributions to Knowledge of the next year.

In the report for 1872 is given an account of a series of investigations
then in progress in regard to the Tides. Beside the labor expended in
this work in the line of higher mathematics, it involved arithmetical
computations of a very laborious character, the expense of which was to
be defrayed by the Institution. This work has been found of so much
practical importance that it has been adopted as a part of the investi-
gations of the Coast Survey. In this case, as in many others, the Insti-
tution has inaugurated valuable investigations, which have subsequently
been carried on by other means. ‘This is in accordance with the estab-
lished usages of the Institution, to do nothing with its funds which can
be equally well done through cther agencies.

Of the octavo series or ‘‘ Miscellaneous Collections,” the Monograph of
American Wasps, prepared by Professor de Saussure, of Geneva, Switz-
erland, has been completed and is nearly ready for distribution. <A full
account of it has been given in previous reports. It forms an octavo of
403 pages, and will doubtless be considered a valuable addition to the
sources of knowledge of the natural history of this country.

Another number of the series of Miscellaneous Collections, published
during the past year, is a Catalogue of the Fishes of the East Coast of
North America. By Dr. Theodore Gill. It was prepared and pub-
ished at first as an appendix to the report of the United States Com-
missioner of Fish and Fisheries for 187172; but, on account of the many
calls for it, and the fact that the work was prepared at the Institution,
and the copies of the Government edition having been exhausted, it was
thought advisable to strike off a new edition from the stereotype plates
and incorporate it in the series of Miscellaneous Collections. It forms
an octavo pamphlet of 54 pages.

The Botanical Index, a work mentioned in previous reports, is still in
the course of preparation. It will be of much importance in enabling
the botanist to find, amid the various reports of surveys made under the
14 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

direction of the United States Government and other sources of infor-
mation, an account of the various plants existing in this country. The
work will be prosecuted as rapidly as the time which ean be devoted to
it by Prof. Sereno Watson, who has it in charge, will permit; 184
pages having already been stereotyped. The cost of its preparation has
been defrayed by contributions from the principal botanists of the United
States, a fact which sufficiently indicates its value.

Another publication made during 1875 belongs to the Miscellaneous
Collections, and is the fourth of the Toner Lecture Series. It is on “A
Study of the Nature and Mechanism of Fever,” by Horatio C. Wood,
M. D., of Philadelphia, and contains a series of original experiments and
observations on the subject.

The phenomena of fever, according to the author, will be found
to be capable of being grouped in three sets: first, acceleration
of the beats of the heart and disturbance of the circulation; second,
nervous disturbance; third, elevation of bodily temperature. It is the
opinion of the author that the first two are merely secondary and depend
upon the third; 7. e., the essential phenomenon of fever is elevation of
temperature. It forms a pamphlet of 48 pages, and has been extensively
called for by the medical profession.

In order to assist in defraying the expense of the publication of the
Toner Lectures, a charge is made of 25 cents for each number. As an
answer to many inquiries, it may be stated in this place that the second
lecture of the series has not yet been published, the Institution having
failed to receive the manuscript from the author.

The preparation of the tables of the “Constants of Nature” has been
in part interrupted, by the appointment of the principal author, F. W.
Clarke, to the professorship of chemistry in the Cincinnati University,
all his time having been absorbed in the preparation of his course of
instruction. He has, however, resumed his labors on the constants, and
will probably furnish us during 1876 with another installment of materials
for the extension of the tables. There has been a large and increasing
demand for this work, which is of much importance to the analytical
chemist in facilitating his investigations.

During the past year another series of publications, which will form
a part of the Miscellaneous Collections, has been commenced. It is enti-
tled “ Bulletin of the National Museum,” and is intended to illustrate
the collections of natural history and ethnology belonging to the United
States, and constituting the National Museum, of which the Smithsonian
Institution is the custodian. Of this series two numbers have been
issued in octavo form, printed at the Government Printing-Office, by au-
thority of the honorable Secretary of the Interior.

The first number is a check-list of North American Batrachia and Rep-
tilia, with asystematic list of the higher groups, and an essay on geograph-
ical distribution, based on the specimens contained in the United States
National Museum, by Prof. Edw. D. Cope. It is a contribution to
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 15

North American Herpetology, undertaken some years ago, at the re-
quest of the Institution. The materials which have been accumulating
in the National Museum offer great advantages for the investigation of
the anatomical structure, variation of specific characters, and geo-
graphical distribution of animals. These subjects are especially cluci-
dated by the study of batrachians and reptiles, since these animals are
especially susceptible to effects from physical influences, and are una-
ble, like birds and mammals, to escape these by extended migrations.
Their habitats, therefore, express the simplest relations of life to the spe-
cial conditions under which it exists. The great number of specimens
in the National Museum enables the investigator to discover the range
of variations of a given species, and to reduce to the rank of varieties
many which have been supposed to be distinct species—the definition
of species being simply a number of individuals having physical pecu-
liarities belonging to them alone, and at the same time found in all.
Nothing is more difficult than to divide the flora or fauna of the world
into distinct species, having the above characteristics, since, passing
from one locality to another of varying physical conditions, the varia-
tions in form and character are so gradual that it is almost impossible
to say where the line of demarkation shall be placed.

In the investigation of cold-blooded North American vertebrata, Pro-
fessor Cope has found that many which have been regarded as separate
species are merely geographical varieties. Bulletin No. 1 is divided
into three parts.

Part I consists of an arrangement of the families and higher divi-
sions of the batrachia and reptilia provisionally adopted by the Insti-
tution.

Part IL is a check-list of the species of batrachia and reptilia of the
nearctic or North American realm.

art III relates to the geographical distribution of the vertebrata of
the nearctic realm with especial reference to the batrachia and reptilia,
and is divided into eleven sections.

Life in different regions of the earth presents marked peculiarities,
depending in a great measure upon the geographical and topographical
relations of the continents. The districts thus marked out are the Aus-
tralian, the neotropical, the nearctic, or North American, the Ethiopian,
the Palological, and the Palzartic, and to these the name of “realms”
has been given. The total number of species of vertebrata found in the
North American realm is 2,249, which is below the truth, since many of
the fishes, both of the ocean and of the fresh waters, remain undescribed.
It is more difficult to give the number of species of the inferior divis-
ions of the animal kingdom. It is stated that 8,000 species of cole-
opterous insects have been discovered in the same region, and that this
is probably about two-thirds of the whole. Probably 50,000 is below
the mark as an estimate of the number of species of insects. In relation
to other realms, several species of vertebrata are common to our north-

16 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

ern regions and Europe and Asia. Thus the wolf, fox, ermine, and per-
haps the beaver extend throughout the northern hemisphere. But few
species are common to the nearctic and the southern neotropical realms—
but one mammal and no reptiles, batrachians nor fresh-water fishes ex-
tend into Brazil, but a number of birds are permanent residents through-
out both realms. Considerable variation exists in the fauna of the sev-
eral parts of our region, exhibiting as many as six principal subdivisions.
The warmer regions are much richer in birds, reptiles, and insects than
the cooler, as we advance northward many species disappear, while
a few others are added. The natural division of the eastern part of
the continent is in a measure dependent on the isothermal lines which
traverse it. In accordance with this fact, the following districts of the
eastern region have been proposed, viz: The Carolinian; the Alle-
ghanian; the Canadian, and the Hudsonian. The central region is
characterized by the general absence of forests. It presents two divis-
ions, each peculiar in its vegetation; the division of the plains which
extends from the eastern border to the Rocky Mountains to the 100th
meridian, and the Rocky Mountain region itself, which extends to the
Sierra Nevada. The former is covered with grass and is almost totally
treeless ; the latter is covered with sage-brush.

In regard to the batrachia and reptilia, from their small amount of
animal heat, it follows that temperature has the greatest influence on
their life and distribution. This is exhibited not only in multiplication
of forms, but in the brillianey of color. Another important influence
in regard to these animals is the amount of terrestrial and atmospheric
moisture. A peculiarity of cold-blooded vertebrata of arid regions is
that by means of which they readily assume the color of the body on
which they rest. That a prevalent color of such bedies should lead to
a habit of preference for that color is necessary, and as such habits
become automatic, the permanence of the color is naturally established.

Appended to the paper is a bibliography of works and memoirs which
embrace discussions of systematic or distributional relations of the rep-
tiles of North America. Those embracing descriptions of species only,
will be added in a future publication. This number forms a pamphlet
of 108 octavo pages, and has been distributed to the principal museums
and naturalists of the world.

The second number of the Bulletin of the National Museum is an ac-
count of the birds of Kerguelen Island, by Dr. J. H. Kidder, Surgeon
United States Navy, and edited by Dr. Elliott Coues. These specimens
were collected by Dr. Kidder, surgeon and naturalist of one of the
parties organized for observing the transit of Venus in the southern
hemisphere. The party to which Dr. Kidder was attached landed from
the United States ship Swatara at the upper end of Royal Sound, a
deep indentation in the southern part of Kerguelen Island, otherwise
known as Desolation Island, one of the most extreme islands of the
southern hemisphere. It is a region of almost constant precipitation,
REPORT OF. THE SECRETARY. gly:

only twenty-seven days out of four months being recorded as without
snow or rain, and a still smaller number of nights. The range of the
thermometer was not far from the freezing-point, being a little below in
September and October and a little above in November and December.
The violent gales, which almost constantly prevailed, and which often
arise with great suddenness, rendered it dangerous to make collections
in small boats. The climatic conditions greatly affect the flora and
fauna of the island, there being no trees or shrubs, uo plant, indeed,
larger than a kind of cabbage. As a consequence of this condition,
there are no land-birds or mammals strictly indigenous, and but a single
shore-bird. The island is of considerable size, about ninety miles long
by fifty miles wide, and is composed of volcanic rocks. No flying insects
were observed except minute gnats, nor were the remains of any found
in the stomachs of birds. But two species of vegetable-feeding birds
were observed, all the others living exclusively on fish or marine
invertebrata. An English party (also to observe the transit) established
itself about fourteen miles southwest of the American station, and at
about the same distance to the northwest was aGerman party, associated
with each of which was a naturalist.

The ornithological collections made by Dr. Kidder are believed to
fully indicate the character ot the avi-fauna of the locality, very few
species having been overlooked. The specimens possess a high interest
from the fact that they are among the rarities of American museums,
while most of the eggs are new to collections, if not hitherto unknown
to naturalists. ‘ The contribution to science which the specimens repre-
sent,” says Dr. Coues, ‘is very ably complemented by Dr. Kidder’s
field-notes, carefully recorded upon the spot when the impressions
of the observer were fresh. They possess a vigor and vividness not
invariably accompanying descriptions of nature, while their entire
trustworthiness is assured both by the character of the observer and
by the favorable circumstances of observation.” The extended bio-
graphical sketches of the Kerguelen birds will be welcomed by ornith-
ologists as an important and interesting contribution to the life-history
of these imperfectly-known species. This paper forms an octavo pam-
phlet of 60 pages, and has been distributed to naturalists and museums.

The first volume of the exploration of the Colorado River of the West
and its tributaries, by Prof. J. W. Powell, under the direction of the
Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, has been published during the
last year by the Department of the Interior. It forms a quarto volume
of 503 pages with 80 illustrations and-a map. It gives a history of the
explorations during the years 1869, 1870, 1871, and 1872. The work to
which this volume relates was originally commenced as an exploration,
but was afterward developed into a survey embracing the geography,
geology, ethnography, and natural history of the country. It is ex-
pected that the results of the several investigations relative to these
subjects, which have been intrusted to several specialists for elabora-

S. Mis. 115 2

18 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

tion, will in due time be published by the General Government in a
style in accordance with that of the present volume. The whole work
will do honor to the appreciation by the Government of scientific infor-
mation of this kind, as well as of the ability and perseverance of Pro-
fessor Powell and his assistants.

As an evidence of the estimation in which the labors of Professor
Powell are held, it should be mentioned that he has been placed in charge
ot the second division of the geological survey of the Territories, under
direction of the Department of the Interior, (the first division being in
charge of Professor Hayden,) and that the subsequent volumes of the
series of his reports will be published by that Department. It may be
further mentioned that Congress has not yet ordered any extra copies of
the first volume of Powell’s report; those that have been printed have
been published by the Interior Department. It is hoped, however, that
Congress at its present session will order a new edition, granting a suffi-
cient number of extra copies to the Smithsonian Institution to supply
the principal public educational and scientific establishments of the
world.

Report.—The annual report of the operations of the Institution for
the year 1874, was presented to Congress as usual, and an edition of
10,500 copies printed; 2,000 of which were for the use of methbers of
the House of Representatives, 1,000 for the use of the Senate, and 7,500
for distribution by the Institution.

The appendix to the report contains translations of eulogies on La
Place by Arago, Quetelet by Mailly, De la Rive by Dumas; a lecture
on tides and tidal action in harbors, by Professor Hilgard, of the Coast
Survey; a translation of observations upon the electricity of the atmos-
phere and the aurora borealis, by Professors Lemstrém and De la Rive;
a translation of an article on a dominant language for science, by Pro-
fessor de Candolle, with notes by Dr. Gray of the British Museum; on
underground temperature, by Chas. A. Schott of the Coast Survey, with
the results of Professor Everett’s researches on the same subject for the
British Association for the Advancement of Science ; on the earthquakes
in North Carolina in 1874, by Professor du Pre, with notes by Profes-
sor Henry; a translation of Professor de la Rive’s report on the trans-
actions of the Geneva Society of Physics and Natural History for 1872
and 1873; the translation of the conclusion of an extensive and impor-
tant paper, by General Morin of France, on warming and ventilation,
with numerous illustrations; and a large number of original communi-
cations on ethnology, describing the antiquities of different parts of the
United States.

This report, as usual, has been distributed to various educational
establishments, to the Meteorological observers, and other contributors to
the objects of the Institution, and to such persons as have made special
application for them in writing.

Indian vocabularies—During the year a number of Indian vocabula-

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 19

ries have been received from different persons engaged in explorations
in the Territories. These have all been referred to J. H. Trumbull, LL.
D., of Hartford, Conn., for critical examination and arrangement for the
press.

A full list of all the manuscript Indian vocabularies in possession of
the Institution will be given in a subsequent report. We hope dur-
ing the next year to commenee the publication of the extensive collec-
tion of materials of this character, so important to the labors of the
ethnologist.

RESEARCHES.

Meteorology.—_In the beginning of 1874 the meteorological system of
records by voluntary observers, which had been in operation by the
Institution for twenty-five years, was transferred to the Signal-Office of
the War Department, under General A.J. Myer. This transfer was made
in accordance with the general policy of the Institution, viz, that of
abandoning any field of enterprise as soon as the work could be done as
well through other agencies. This transfer has received the approba-
tion of the observers generally, who, while they are now co-operating
with the Signal-Service, still keep up a correspondence with the Institu-
tion on subjects of general scientific interest. The meteorological system
of the United States under General Myer is in an admirable condition.
The total number of daily reports filed at the Office of the Chief Signal-
Officer are now as follows: Number of daily-service simultaneous
telegraphic reports, 109; number of international daily simultaneous
reports, 268; number of reports of voluntary observers, 593; number
of reports of medical corps of the Army, 102; number of reports of
medical corps of the Navy, 5; making a grand total of 877 daily reports
received regularly for discussion. Such an extensive series of observa-
tions, if continued for twenty years, will furnish the data for determin-
ing the peculiar climatology of North America with a precision hitherto
unknown in the history of meteorology. The labors of the Smithso-
nian Institution in the line of meteorology are now principally confined
to working up the materials in this branch of science, which it has col-
lected during the last quarter of a century. These materials include
not only the observations of the Institution itself, but all that could be
obtained from other sources relative to North America, from the first
settlement of the country down to the present time. The first work of
this class which has been published is that of the rain-fall.: It included
all the materials which had been collected down to 1866. During the
last two years preparations have been made to publish a new edition of
this work, including the additions from new materials, and with new
maps on a larger scale. In the preparation of this new edition we have
received important assistance, through the politeness of General Myer,
from the system of the Signal-Service.

The work published by the Institution on the rain-fall of the United
States is of great importance in relation to our agricultural resources,
20 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

to the various engineering enterprises which are proposed from time to
time, as well as to the manufacturing interests of the country. It is
also intimately connected with the subject of forest-culture, which at
present is occupying a large share of public attention. It must be the
basis of all the improvements which are attempted in regard to irriga-
tion, and is of especial value in this respect to the western portion of
the United States.

There are two great systems of rain-bearing winds in North America;
that from the west on our Pacific coast, which blows across the several
chains of mountains, constituting the western system, precipitating its
moisture principally on the western slopes of the mountains, so that
on the eastern sides of these mountains, as well as on the slopes and
plains east of the Rocky Mountains, there are arid portions of scanty
vegetation, on account of deficient moisture. How far these may be
rendered fertile by irrigation depends upon the amount of rain-fall and
the conformation of the surface by which the water may be utilized.
The other system of rain-winds is from the Gulf of Mexico and the
Atlantic. These winds blow principally in the direction of the axis of
the Appalachian system of mountains, and consequently precipitate
their moisture along the valleys and on both sides of the mountain
slopes, covering the whole region with fertility. In connection with
this subject we would commend to public attention the plan adopted
by the State of Maine in making a hydraulic survey of the whole State,
to ascertain the amount of water-power available for manufacturing pur-
poses.

In view of the limited, though in thiscountry comparatively great, quan-
tity of coal-power, it is our duty to use, in preference in all cases where
it is possible, water-power, which is constantly renewed and must be con-
tinued as long as the sun’s energy elevates water from the surface of
the ocean and precipitates it on the higher portions of the land.
We have in the falls of Niagara a source of active energy, which we
doubt not in the course of years will be utilized to an extent which shall
affect the well-being of man in every part of the civilized world. The
time of the utilization of this power will depend upon the varying price
of coal. When this, from the constantly-increasing demand, assumes a
certain price, water-power will more generally be resorted to and the
large amount of energy which is now dissipated, as in the case of the
falls of the Potomac and other rivers, will be carefully husbanded.

The next work of the same class is that of the Winds of the Globe,
comprising the results of the discussions of not only observations
made under the direction of the Institution in the United States, but of
those of every other part of the world of which the records were attain-
able. This work has been prepared by the joint agency of the late Prof.
Jas. H. Coffin, of Lafayette College, Pennsylvania, and the Smithsonian
Institution, the former furnishing the general plan and oversight of the
work, the latter contributing the greater part of the material and
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. p43

defraying the cost of making the reductions and numerical computa-
tions.* This work may be considered an extension of the Winds of the
Northern Hemisphere, prepared by Professor Coffin, and published by
the Institution in 1855. It is designed to show principally—

First. The mean direction in which the lower currents of the atmo-
sphere move over all parts of the surface of the earth.

Second. The ratio that the progressive motion bears to the total dis-
tance traveled.

Third. The modification that the currents undergo in different seasons
of the year.

Fourth. The direction in which the forces act that produce these mod-
ifications.

Fifth. The amount of intensity of these forces as reckoned on the
same scale as that which determines their mean annual direction.

The data used for elucidating these points consist of series of obser-
vations of winds made at 3,223 different stations on Jand and during
numerous voyages at sea, extending from the parallel of 82° 16’ north
to beyond the parallel of 75° south latitude, altogether embracing an
aggregate period of over eighteen thousand five hundred years. The
whole material is arranged in the form of tabular series, and for conve-
nience in discussion the entire surface of the earth is divided into thirty-
six zones by parallels of latitude drawn five degrees asunder, com-
mencing at the North Pole and proceeding southwardly. The method
of reduction is not that which has usually been adopted of obtaining
the prevailing direction or the point from which the wind blows most
frequently, but the traverse of the whole is made out in the same man-
ner as that of a ship at sea. Suppose a particle of air to start at a given
point and to move with uniform velocity for nine days, viz, from the
northeast for a period of three days, southeast four days, south two
days, at the end of this time the particle will be found at a certain point ;
the distance from the starting-point and the direction of the line joining
the ending-points will be formed by a traverse. In this way the result-
ant direction of the wind is determined fora given place. If no deflect-
ing force was exerted, the mean direction and relative progress of the
wind would be the same for each month of the year; but as this is not
the case, by comparing different resultants, an idea of the deflecting
force is obtained, or, in other words, of the monsoon influence which tends:
in different seasons of the year to vary the resultant direction.

At the time of the death of Professor Coffin in 1573, the principal ser-
ies of tables was mainly completed, yet there were blanks left to be filled.
The supply of these deficiencies and the preparation of the illustrative
plates was undertaken without pecuniary compensation by his son and
successor in Lafayette College, Prof. Selden J. Coffin, who executed the
work with a feeling of pious regard for the memory of a venerated parent,
interest in science, and a devotion which merits special commendation.

“Altogether 80 persons were engaged in these reductions, the principal assistant of
Professor Coffin being Mr, Henry Mansfield, a skilful computer.
22 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

The Institution also availed itself of the meteorological knowledge
and skill in investigation of Dr. Alex. Woeikof, of the Imperial Geo-
graphical Society of Russia, during his late visit to this country, for a
series of deductions from the tables and charts which the untimely
death of Professor Coffin prevented him from undertaking.

Perhaps one of the most important additions to the meteorology of
the present day is the establishment of the dependence of the force and
direction of the wind upon the pressure of the atmosphere at different
points. This subject was especially studied by Professor Espy and
Professor Coffin, in this country, and by Professor Buys Ballot, in Hol-
land, and later by Professor Buchan, in Edinburgh. This relation may
be expressed as follows: At the surface of the earth the wind blows from
a region of high pressure to a region of low pressure, and is deflected to the
right owing to the rotation of the earth ; while in the region above a reverse
wind, deflected to the left, is taking place. Professor Buchan has rendered
great service to meteorology by extending this law to the general phe-
nomena of the winds of the globe. For example, during the winter
months the land becomes cold by radiation below the temperature of
the sea, and, consequently, the air is more condensed over the former
than over the latter, the barometer stands higher, and currents of air
in accordance with the law in question tend to pass at the surface of
the earth from the land to the ocean, and in an opposite direction
above, while the reverse phenomena take place in summer.

It is fully established that there are on the surface of the earth five
systems of winds, which roughly correspond with the zones of climate
and temperature, and that the boundaries of these systems vary in lati-
tude with the change in declination of the sun. In the torrid zone the
resultant of the wind is from an easterly direction toward a variable
middle line, giving rise to what are called the trade-winds. In the tem-
perate zones the average direction of the wind is from the west; and
again, in the arctic and antarctic regions, the resultant is from an east-
erly direction; and, furthermore, the limits of these systems of winds
are connected with regions of high or low barometer. Thus, in the equa-
torial regions, the barometer above the middle line is below the average
height of 30 inches, while along the northern and southern limit of this
region there is a belt of high barometer, and again on the northern and
southern limit of the winds of the temperate zone there is a belt of low
barometer. The direction of the wind in these several regions and the
belt of high and low barometer are referred to the unequal action of the
heat of the sun in rarefying the air at the equator, causing an indrawing
current at the surface of the earth, which takes a westerly direction on
account of the revolution of the earth on its axis, and a current toward
each pole, which, from the same reason, has a direction from the west.
The equatorial current, cooling above, descends by its superior weight
at the northern limit of the trade-winds, producing the belt of high
barometer, from which, in opposite directions, two currents move, one
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 23

returning toward the equator, forming the trade-wind, and the other,
proceeding northward, having a westerly component by the revolution
of the earth, tends to move in a direction from the west. It is probable,
however, that a portion of the upper wind from the equator flows entirely
to the pole, and there, by cooling, descends, consequently having a north-

easterly direction. The point of union of these two currents produces
an upward motion, again giving rise to the northern belt of lower
barometer. .

This sketch of the direction of the wind at the surface of the earth is
shown by Professor Coffin to exist by deductions from actual observa-
tions, while it is also proved by Professor Ferrel, of the Coast Survey,
as a mathematical deduction from the theory of a fluid subjected to dif:
ference of temperatures at different parts on the surface of a rotating
globe.

The material which Dr. Woeikof has supplied to this work consists
in an elaborate comparison of the actual winds, as tabulated from the
reductions of Professor Coffin, with the varying pressure of the atmos-
phere at different seasons of the year due to the relative variation of the
heat of the land and of the sea, on the principle adopted by Buchan.
The result of his labor gives a satisfactory account in all cases where
the pressure has been determined of the perturbations in the direction
and intensity of the wind in different seasons of the year; and is a val-
uable first approximation to a full analysis of the causes of the com-
plex phenomena of the local and periodical changes in the atmosphere.

The results given in the tables of the whole world are represented and
illustrated by twenty-six plates drawn by Prof. 8S. J. Coffin, and en-
graved by Henry Chandler, of Buffalo, N. Y. These plates present, at
a single view, the relation of the different parts of the same system of
winds to each other and to the different systems of the globe. For the
illustration of the deductions of Dr. Woeikof, two plates are reproduced
from the paper of Professor Buchan in the Transactions of the Royal
Society of Edinburgh. We trust this work will be accepted by the
scientific world as a monument to the memory of Professor Coffin, and
as an illustration of the judicious policy of the Smithsonian Institution.

The extended series of tables relative to the Vemperature of the
United States which has been in progress of preparation for a number
of years, is now nearly through the press, and will be ready for distri-
bution in the course of 1876.

This memoir contains the results of all observations to the end of the
year 1870, from the following sources:

Ist. The registers of the Smithsonian Institution, embracing upward
of 300 folio volumes.

2d. The joint publications of the Institution, the Patent- Office, and
the Department of Agriculture.

3d. All the publications and unpublished records of the meteorolog-
ical system of the United States Army.
24 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

4th. The records of the United States Lake Survey under the
Engineer Department of the United States Army.

5th. The records of the United States Coast Survey under the Treas-
ury Department.

6th. The volumes compiled by Dr. F. B. Hough from observations
mude under the direction of the Regents of the University of the State
of New York.

7th. The records made in Pennsylvania under the direction of the
Franklin Institute of Philadelphia.

8th. The transactions of various societies and periodical publications.

All the material collected was first classified, and a series of tables of
temperature in detail constructed, and from these were deduced the con-
solidated tables of average temperature. The first of these series, owing
to its great bulk, must at present remain in manuscripts; it can, how-
ever, at any time be consulted at the Institution. The series of tables
which is now about to be published consists of average temperatures,
and is sufficient for the study of the climate of the United States gener-
ally, or for any particular part of it, as far as it depends upon tempera-
ture. The whole work was done under the superintendence of Mr.
Charles A. Schott, of the United States Coast Survey, who has also
given special attention to the revision of the accuracy of the computa-
tions. The character of Mr. Schott for scientific knowledge, sagacity,
and skill, as exhibited in the previous publications on meteorology by
the Institution, gives assurance that the present work on the temperature
is a valuable contribution to knowledge.

Perhaps the best idea of the character and extent of the work can be
given in a brief space by the following extract from the table of con-
tents:

Section I.—General remarks and explanations of tabular results.

Special table of corrections for daily variation of temperature in each
month and the year, for every hour and for various combinations of
hours.

Tables of mean temperature for each month, season, and the year, at
various stations, principally in North America,

Graphical representation and explanation of the isothermal charts.

Deductions from the charts of the distribution of the mean annual
temperature, and of the distribution of the temperature during the
winter and the summer seasons.

Section IJ.—Discussion of the daily fluctuation of the atmospheric tem-
perature.

Times of sunrise and sunset in different latitudes and for every tenth
day in each month.

Tables of bi-hourly, hourly, and semi-hourly mean temperatures for
each month and the year at various places in North America.

Tables of differences from the mean of the day, of bi-hourly, hourly, and
semi hourly mean temperatures for each month and the year.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 25

Systematic representation of the daily fluctuation of the temperature,
by means of a periodic function.

Analysis of the daily fluctuation.

Variability of the temperature at any hour of the day from the normal
value of that hour.

Section IJI.—The annual fluctuation of the temperature expressed in
terms of a periodic function.

Table of computed annual fluctuation of the temperature at forty-six
Stations.

Discussion of the results for dates of mean annual values and for
maxima and minima; and annual range in connection with the geo-
graphical distribution of the stations.

Examination into alleged interruption in the regularity of the annual
fluctuation at certain epochs, with tables of temperature of each day
of the year, deduced from a series of years.

Investigation of the variability of the temperature of any one day in a
series of years.

Inequality in the epoch of the minima and maxima of the annual
fluctuation.

Tables of observed extremes of temperatures, arranged by months, for
a selected number of stations.

Analysis of tabular results for greatest heat and greatest cold with
regard to geographical distribution.

Extreme annual range of temperature and monthly absolute variability ;
exhibition of the law of annual distribution.

Tables of the mean annual temperature, principally in the United
States, for a succession of years from the earliest records to the close
of the year 1870.

Investigation of the secular variation of the annual mean temperature,
and of the permanency of the climate.

Comparison of the secular variation of the temperature with the varia-
tions in the frequency of the solar spots.

Comparison of the secular variation in the temperature and rain-fall in
the United States.

Comparison of the secular variation in the temperature with the aver-
age annual direction of the wind.

Range of variability in the secular variation of the annual temperature.

Secular variation in the annual minima and maxima, compared with the
variation in the annual means.

The tables in the first section contain the number and name of each
Station, its latitude and longitude, its elevation above the sea, its mean
temperature for each month and for each season, and for the whole
year, the extent of the series, the observing hours, and the name of the
observer. In cases where observations were made at hours of the day dif-
fering from those of the general series, they were reduced to uniformity
by corrections derived from tables of observations made at each hour of
26 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

the twenty-four, continuously for a number of years. Such tables were
furnished by the observations at Toronto, Mohawk, New Haven, and
Philadelphia. The tables of this section will be of much importance to
those interested in meteorology, as furnishing data for the special cli-
matology of the various portions of the United States. The institution
has been frequently applied to by State authorities, agricultural and
medical societies and others, for information as to the temperature of
peculiar localities, which can now be more readily supplied than betore °
the tables were printed.

The tables of the second section relate to the daily fluctuation of the
temperature during the year. The regular variations of the tempera-
ture due to changes in the sun’s altitude and the length of the day are
affected by perturbations from day to day on account of aqueous vapor
suspended in the atmosphere, by the serenity or cloudiness of the sky,
and by the direction of the wind. As a general rule the maximum heat
occurs some time after the sun has reached his greatest altitude, and the
greatest cold somewhere between midnight and sunrise. Even in mid-
winter in high latitudes, during the continued absence of the sun, these
periodic fluctuations are still perceptible; which may be accounted for
by supposing waves of heat transported from more southern regions
where the sun still rises above the horizon.

The tables of the third section relate to the annual fluctuations of the
temperature and the perturbations from the curve derived from obser-
vations made during a series of years. These are of importance in de-
termining questions as to the secular changes in climate.

The work is illustrated by three charts of isothermal spaces, one for
summer, another for winter, and the third for the year; also two plates
and a number of wood-cuts.

The next series of meteorological observations which remains to be
discussed and analyzed is that which relates to the pressure of the atmos-
phere, which, it is evident from what has been said in regard to the
winds, is an important element in determining the peculiar climatolog
of the North American Continent and its relation to that of the other
parts of the world. This work will be commenced during the latter part
of the present year.

Another work will be continued—that on the collation and discussion
of the observations on thunder-storms and other casual phenomena. The
observations in regard to these phenomena have been copied from the
original records and arranged in tables previous to their discussion.

The miscellaneous work doue by our computers in regard to meteor-
ology during the year 1875 is as follows:

Manuscript temperature tables were prepared for the first seven months
of 1871 and for March, 1872, these records not having been accessible
before. Many additions were made to the general tables from new ma-
terial sent by observers and others. The collection and tabulation of
the observations for rain-fall at the Smithsonian stations for 1874 has
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. rei

been completed, and also for those at the Signal-Service stations by per-
mission of General Myer, Chief Signal-Officer, from 1872 to 1874 inelu-
sive, also for Army stations for the last six months of 1874, and for
Canadian stations from 1872 to 1874 complete.

For the exhibition of the results of the meteorological labors of the
Institution at the Centennial Exhibition, an outline map 16 by 12 feet has
been prepared. This map will beof use to the lecturer and to the different

‘departments of the Government in exhibiting on a large scale tbe results
of various statistical inquiries. Already a number of different parties
have applied for copies, for which such a charge will be made as to con-
siderably diminish the cost to the Institution of the original production
of the map.

INTERNATIONAL LITERARY AND SCIENTIFIC EXCHANGES.

This system has been prosecuted during the past year with unabated
energy, and the results have been commensurate with the labor ex-
pended. As an evidence of the high estimation in which this branch of
the operations of the Institution is regarded, as well as to give proper
credit to the parties who have transmitted free of cost the packages of
the Institution, we reprint, as usual, the following list of their names:

Cunard Steamship Company. North German Lloyd Steamship
Anchor Steamship Company. Company.
Pacific Mail Steamship Company. | Hamburg American Packet Com-
Panama Railroad Company. pany.
Pacific Steam Navigation Compa-| French Transatlantic Company.
ny. North Baltic Lloyd Steamship
New York and Mexico Steamship) Company.
Company. Inman Steamship Company.
New York and Brazil Steamship

Company.

The special thanks of the Institution are again tendered to the above-
mentioned companies for their enlightened liberality.

It should also be mentioned that Messrs. Prin, Trowand & Co., of New
York, agents of the Atlas Steamship Company, have made a very lib-
eral coucession to the Institution in the reduction of charges for trans-
mission of parcels to the West Indies; one dollar in gold being charged
for any package not exceeding three cubic feet in measurement, instead
of the usual charge, three times this sum.

The following are the foreign centers of reception and distribution of
the Smithsonian exchanges :

London—William Wesley, 28 Essex street, Strand.

,aris—G. Bossange, 16 rue du 4 Septembre.

Leipsic—Dr. Felix Fliigel, 49 Sidonien Strasse.

St. Petersburg—L. Watkins & Co., 10 Admiralty Place.

Amsterdam—I’, Miiller. Heerengracht kk, No. 130.
28 REPORT OF THE

Milan—U. Hoepli, 591 Galeria Cristoforia.

Harlem—Prof. Baumbhauer.

Christiania—Royal University of Norway.
Stockholm—Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences.
Copenhagen—Royal Danish Society.

Lisbon—Royal Academy of Sciences.
Madrid—Royal Academy of Sciences.

. Havana—Dr. Felipe Poey.
Santiago—University of Chili.

SECRETARY.

Mexico—Mexican Society of Geography and Statistics
Montreal—Geological Survey of Canada.
The packages of the Institution for the West Indies have been kindly
forwarded by Mr. Thomas Bland, of New York, and those for Turkey
and some other points by the American Board of Commissioners for

Foreign Missions, Boston.

The following table exhibits the number of foreign establishments with
which the Institution is at present in correspondence, or, in other words,
to which it sends publications aud from which it receives others in re-

turn:

Foreign Institutions in correspondence with the Smithsonian Institution.

IMUStE a Gewceiec co es cess see erie. 29
Arcentine Republic¢.--2-- 2 << -2 - 13
NLMYO) nassoosascsd De Ooo bSoo Edo 6
Belorimiai: £3 S.c 5. ste, sldeisiai-ciennts 110
Britishy America a2 ceencaecr ae e-a. Pe
BOUivI aE cece cnl beeeateamacs 1
Brazile Xe ee ce cetanc oe ose ese 8
BTUs ONG Ulan dese ese sete acme ciae = 3
@éntral *Ameries 22 ss) sse see ae 1
One se ee et Seat ee seh ee 9
WOlOMDIae eee eee ooo Seis e eee 3
Cane Colonyh- sees sere eioe see 5
Chimatso od eee be a a eee ce 1
Menmarle Sass setae aeeele se sass 28
Dutch Guianas sseoucseeceme cece te 1
BCUACOL toe coe eee eal ee morslence 2
liar Decadence caso ao bocca aaao.c Jae 8
Brance 2hei ose ese et eS 290
Genmanty-caseui ess eaa = eseeeess 642
Gre6CO seo ace cctioces wee eel aceee 8
Great Britain and Ireland-......... 350
OW ands. eels ccacw cece ssl sees 65
Reeland set cstcose cece etme sa ceee 2
Mibalivmemetveteetst stele eles slesteterialaaare 177

ImGhe SASsS
Jaivaeesees
Japan....

eee ee Ce ewe mete meme ome

Thiberia <2 sels te ee ee

Norway...

Polynesia -
Portugal. -
Philippine

ry

i i ery
ee ie ay

Kslandss-navesnencmonete

Perl sacicsayoneoe oe sencostececeatoe ae

Spain\----+

Sweden...
Switzerlan
St. Helena

Venezuela

ee ee er a)
eee ere we ee ee eee eee eee eee

GBS S eoehade Same ccc

ee |

Wiest Indiessacesscscecceeeeeeens

General...

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 29

Statistics of exchanges sent during the last seven years.

1869. 1870. 1e7iee | eter?: 1873. 1874, 1575.

Nonofsboxesanee ee sacs 112 121 108 179 196 131 208
Bulk in cubic feet....... 1, 033 £89 772 954 1, 476 | 933 1,503
Weight ....-2-. =... -...| 23,376 | 31,383: | 28,950 | 26,850 | 44,236 | 27,990 | 45,300

We may also mention as an evidence of the high appreciation of the
character of the Smithsonian exchanges, that the packages bearing the
marks of the Institution are admitted free of duty and without exam-
ination into all foreign ports.

The value of this system, as a means of advancing civilization, can
searcely be too highly estimated. Accounts of all the results of scien-
tific investigations in the old and new world are through it interchanged,
and men in both hemispheres are rendered efficient co-operators in the
great work of enlarging the bounds of knowledge, and thus one great
impediment to human advancement, that of isolation, is, in a measure,
overcome.

The system has now become so extended that it requires the constant
attention of several assistants and a large amount of correspondence.
It has, however, been reduced to such general regulations as usually to
prevent loss or the missending of packages. It has happened in a few
‘ases that loss has occurred on account of shipwreck, and among these
we have to mention that of the four large cases shipped from Germany
in December last, on the Deutschland, three of which contained recent
publications of German learned societies, and the fourth specimens of
ornithology for the National Museum. The latter alone was insured.
In connection with this loss we have received the following expression
of regret from Dr. Felix Fliigel, the warm friend and for more than
twenty years efficient agent of the Institution:

“Tt is now a disagreeabie thought that I hurried the transmission of the last case as
much as possible, in order todnsure its being forwarded by the unfortunate vessel. I

feel quite sorry that I cannot any longer boast that not a single leaf intrusted to my
care for your Institution had been lost.”

During the past vear 4,661 packages, each containing several articles,
have been received from abroad for distribution to institutions and indi-
viduals in this country.

Two hundred and eight boxes, averaging 7 cubic feet each, with
a total weight of 45,500 pounds, were sent abroad by the Institution
during the year. The total number of separate parcels contained in
these boxes was about 12,000.

To facilitate the business of the exchanges, the following rules have
been adopted :
1. Every package, without exception, must be enveloped in strong
30 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

paper, and secured so as to bear separate transportation by express or
otherwise.

2. The address of the institution or individual, for whom the package
is intended, must be written legibly on the cover, and the name of the
sender on one corner of the same.

3. No single package must exceed the half of a cubic foot in bulk.

4, A detailed list of addresses of all the parcels sent, with their con-
tents, must accompany them.

5. No letter or other communication can be allowed in the parcel,
excepting such as relates exclusively to the contents of the package.

6. All packages must be delivered in Washington free of freight and
other expenses.

7. Every parcel should contain a blank acknowledgment, to be signed
and returned, either through the agent of the Institution, or, what is
still better, through the mail, to the sender.

Should returns be desired for what is sent, the fact should be ex-
plicitly stated on the list of the contents of the package. Much disap-
pointment is frequently expressed at the absence of any return in kind for
transmissions ; but unless these are specifically asked for, they will fail in
many instances to be made. It will facilitate the labors of the Institu-
tion very greatly if the number corresponding to the several addresses
in the Smithsonian printed catalogue be marked on the face of each
parcel; and for this purpose a copy of the catalogue will be forwarded
to all who apply for it.

Specimens of natural history will not be received for transmission
unless with a previous understanding as to their character and bulk.

8. Unless all these conditions are complied with, the parcels will not
be forwarded from the Institution; and, on the failure to comply with
the first and second conditions, will be returned to the sender for cor-
rection.

In regard to exchanges we have to state, at the request of the Societé
Americaine de France, 20 Rue Madame, Paris, that it will gladly exchange
its publications with societies especially devoted to the archeology of the
New World. We are also requested to announce that the Royal Society
of New South Wales desires to enter into correspondence with similar
scientific societies and institutions in other countries, for the purpose of
making a friendly interchange of information and publications. The
annual transactions published by this society consist of original scientific
articles, which usually relate to the geography, geology, mineralogy,
natural history, meteorology, and general resources of the colony of
New South Wales.

The materials of exchanges are in some cases furnished by special
acts of Congress. As an example of this, we may state that at the
Jast session it was ordered that one thousand copies of the Report of the
Geological Survey of the Territories, by Dr. Hayden, for the year 1873,
be furnished to the Smithsonian Institution. These will be distributed
to foreign societies during the coming year.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. dl
EXCHANGE OF GOVERNMENT DOCUMENTS.

In 1867 a proposition was made to the Institution, by the Librarian
of Congress, relative to establishing a system of exchange of official
documents between the Government of the United States and those of
foreign nations.

The object in this was to secure regularly and systematically all
reports and other documents relative to the legislation, jurisprudence,
Statistics, internal economy, technology, &e., of all nations, so as to
place the material at the command of the committees and members of
Congress, heads of bureaus, &e.

In accordance with this, a circular* was addressed to the different
governments having relations with the United States, for the purpose
of ascertaining their views as to such an exchange.

The following governments responded favorably: France, Belgium,
Great Britain, Switzerland, Spain, Costa Rica, Netherlands, Chili, Den-
mark, Argentine Confederation, United States of Colombia, Wiirtem-
burg, Finland, Hamburg, Baden, Sweden, Victoria. The latter gov-
ernment forwarded a collection of books at once, which was placed in
the Library of Congress.

At the Thirty-ninth session of Congress, the following resolution was
adopted :

[No. 55.] A RESOLUTION to provide for the exchange of certain public documents.

Resolved by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America, in
Congress assembled, That fifty copies of all documents hereafter printed by order of
either house of Congress, and fifty copies additional of all documents printed in excess
of the usual number, together with fifty copies of each publication issued by any De-
partment or Bureau of the Government, be placed at the disposal of the Joint Com-
mittee on the Library, who shall exchange the same, through the agency of the Smith-
sonian Institution, for such works published in foreign countries, and especially by foreign
governments, as may be deemed by said committee an equivalent; said works to be
deposited in the Library of Congress.

Approved March 2, 1867.

In consequence of an oversight in not ordering the Public Printer to
furnish the necessary extra copies of public documents for this purpose,
the Library Committee could not carry out the foregoing resolution, and
at the ensuing session, Iortieth Congress, the following additional reso-
lution was adopted :

[No. 72.] A RESOLUTION to carry into effect the resolution approved March two, eighteen hundred and
sixty-seven, providing for the exchange of certain public documents.

Resolved by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United Slates of America, in
Congress assembled, That the Congressional Printer, whenever he shall be so directed
by the Joint Committee on the Library, be, and he hereby is, directed to print fifty
copies, in addition to the regular number, of all documents hereafter printed by order
of either house of Congress, or by order of any Department or Bureau of the Govern-
ment, and whenever he shall be so directed by the Joint Committee on the Library,

*Report of the Smithsonian Institution for 1867, page 71.
on REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

one hundred copies additional of all documents ordered to be printed in excess of the
usual number; said fifty or one hundred copies to be delivered to the Librarian of
Congress, to be exchanged, under direction of the Joint Committee on the Library, as
provided by joint resolution approved March two, eighteen hundred and sixty-seven:

Sec. 2. And be it further resolved, That fifty copies of each publication printed under
direction of any Department or Bureau of the Government, whether at the Congres-
sional Printing-Office or elsewhere, shall be placed at the disposal of the Joint Com-
mittee on the Library, to carry out the provisions of said resolution.

Approved July 25, 1868.

The following is the provision in relation to the subject in the Revised
Statutes:

Sec. 3796. The Congressional Printer shall, when so directed by the Joint Committee
on the Library, print, in addition to the usual number, either fifty or one hundred
copies, as he may be directed, of all documents printed by order of either house of
Congress, or of any Department or Bureau of the Government. [Revised Statutes. ]

The exchange proposed by this action of Congress, from unforeseen
difficulties, has never been fully carried into effect, although several
attempts have been made to do so.

In October, 1874, by special direction of Mr. Spofford, Librarian of Con-
gress, four cases of documents were sent to the government of Ontario,
Toronto; and in November, 1874, five cases to the Parliamentary Li-
brary, Ottawa, five cases to the government of Japan, and four cases to
the Bibliothek des Deutschen Reichstag, Berlin.

A number of boxes were also shipped to the agents of the Institution
in Europe, to be held by them for further instructions.

A large quantity of these public documents having accumulated at
the Institution, it became necessary to provide for their distribution
without further delay, and accordingly the Institution issued, in October
last, the following circular:

The Congress of the United States has authorized the exchange, under direction of
the Joint Library Committee of Congress, through the Smithsoniav Institution, ofa
certain number of all United States official documents for the corresponding publica-
tions of other governments throughout the world; the returns to be placed in the
National Library at Washington. The works to be distributed consist of reports and
proceedings of Congress, messages of the President, annual reports and occasional pub-
lications of Departments and Bureaus, &c., the whole relating to the legislation, juris-
prudence, foreign relations, commerce, statistics, arts, manufactures, agriculture, geog-
raphy, hydrography, &c., of the United States, and including everything, of whatever
nature, published, either by direct order of Congress or by any of the Departments of
the Government. The series embraces a large number of volumes each year, the most
of which are bound.

The exchange expected from each government is a complete series of its publications,
to include the documents of special bureaus or departments as well as the general pub-
lications, of whatever nature, printed at the public expense, and also embracing all
such works as are published by booksellers with the aid of grants or subscriptions
from governments.

The Smithsonian Institution, in behalf of the Joint Library Committee of Congress,
is prepared to deliver the publications of the United States, free of charge for freight,
to any person in the city of Washington or in New York who may be designated by
the governments which enter into the arrangement.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 30

The books intended for the United States are to be delivered to either of the Smith-
sonian agents, viz:

London, William Wesley, 28 Essex street, Strand; Paris, G. Bossange, 16 rue du
4 Septembre; Leipsic, Dr. Felix Fliigel, 12 Sidonien Strasse; St. Petersburg, L. Wat-
kins & Co., 10 Admiralty Place; Amsterdam, F. Miiller; Milan, U. Hoepli, 591 Galeria
Cristoforia; Haarlem, Bureau Scientifique Central Neerlandais & Harlem; Christiania,
Kongelige Norske Frederiks Universitetet ; Stockholm, Kongliga Svenska Vetenskaps
Akademien; Copenhagen, Kongelige Danske Videnskabernes Selskab.

For all other conntries, packages may be delivered to the United States ministers.
An invoice of each transmission should be sent by mail to the Institution.

JOSEPH HENRY,
< Secretary Smithsonian Institution.

This circular was sent with the following letter to the foreign minis-
ters in Washington representing the following countries: Argentine
Republic, Austria-Hungary, Belgium, Brazil, Chili, Denmark, France,
German Empire, Great Britain, Guatemala, Hawaii, Hayti, Italy, Japan,
Mexico, Netherlands, Peru, Portugal, Russia, Salvador, Spain, Sweden
and Norway, Turkey, United States of Colombia, Venezuela.

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION,
Washington, D. C., October 30, 1875.

Sir: I have the honor, accompanying this, to transmit a circular relative to the
exchange of the documents published by the United States with those of other nations,
and to request you to state to whom the boxes now ready for transmission, intended
for your government, shall be delivered.

Very respectfully, your obedient servant,

JOSEPH HENRY,
Secretary Smithsonian Institution.

In accordance with the instructions received by the Institution in
response to the foregoing letter, the following distribution of documents
was made:

6 cases for Turkey, sent to legation, H street, Washington, D. C.

6 cases for France, sent to consul-general of France, New York.

6 cases for Portugal, sent to consul-general of Portugal, 148 Pearl
street, New York.

6 cases for Sweden, sent to consulate, 18 Exchange Place, New York.

6 cases for Brazil, sent to vice-consul, 52 South Gay street, Baltimore.

6 cases for Argentine Republic, sent to G. Videla Dorna, Albermarle
Hotel, New York.

4 cases for Belgium, sent to Peter Wright & Sons, Philadelphia.

1 case for Chili, sent to Muiioz & Espriella, 52 Pine street, New York.

6 cases for Mexico, sent to Juan N. Navarro, 50 Exchange Place, N. Y.

When these boxes had been distributed we were requested by the
Librarian of Congress to stop further proceedings until instructions
could be procured from the Library Committee. As soon as the diffical-
ties which have impeded this work are removed, the Institution will go
on to complete the arrangement.

LIBRARY. ‘

The library of the Institution, as has been stated in previous reports,
is deposited in the Capitol of the United States, with the Librarian of
S. Mis, 115——3
34 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

Congress, under whose direction it is arranged and catalogued as a
part of the Library of the Government.

The following is a statement of the books, maps, and charts received
in 1875:

Volumes:
OGiavoVOrilessisly Pei w coh Rie ae ieee ers sie erie ee) alates 819
Cartoon lan Gen neremane ete ee af <= ialelate ler rstaar elena 301
1, 120
Parts of volumes:
‘CORO (RUE S45 4nee ha adon penn mae weuce sd sooSsoGus sce 2, 139
Quarto jor laLC eter 6 sell = oe isa ele ore metic sina roe in SU Oil
4, 016
Pamphlets :
Oe OTe ei5 alte SAE Sth onc MOM nCn mcm so Sc AIS cise & 1, 524
Qiarto- OEllAareeras. viscioee eine ae see aielet eer taleektae 273
1, 797
VA PSianG nCHAnesins\ 1 <,csoed tsk cache clerne S falatel Stele nts ey ieteren ee eta 114
Dotalreceipts. 42sec piee eer ae eel PSE Sane eae 7, O47

These articles are entered as they are received at the Institution in a
large record-book, and afterward transferred to the Library of Congress.
The number received in 1875 was considerably larger than that in the
preceding year.

During the past year much use has been made of the books of the
Institution which are in the Library of Congress as well as those of the
latter library by the collaborators of the Institution. The value of the
library will, however, be enhanced when the new edition of the catalogue
of transactions of learned societies has been published, the old edition
having been deficient in the names of the works received since the date
at which it was issued.

The following are some of the more valuable works received in 1875:

From the Ministry of War, St. Petersburg: Artillery Journal, 18638-
1874, 37 parts; Engineering Journal, 1868-1873, 27 parts; Ordnance
Magazine, 1868-1874, 14 parts.

From His Highness the Maharajah of Travancose, Trevandrum : Ob-
servations of Magnetic Declination, made at the Trevandrum and
Augustia Observatories in the years 1852 to 1869. Vol. 1. London,
1874. 4to.

From the British government: Fac-similes of National Manuscripts
of Ireland, selected and edited under the direction of the Right Hon.
Edward Sullivan, Master of the Rolls in Ireland, by J. T. Gilbert, Sec-
retary of the Public Record Office of Ireland, and photozincographed
by command of Her Majesty Queen Victoria, by Major-General Sir Henry
James. Part I. Dublin, 1874. Folio.

From the University of Chili, Santiago: Anales 1872,1873. Govern-
ment Documents, 12 volumes and six parts. Topographical and Geolog-
ical Chart of Chili, in 13 parts.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 30

From the Ambrosian Library, Milan: Codex Syro-Hexaplaris Am-
brosianus photolithographice editus curante et adnotante sac. ob]. An-
tonio Maria Ceriani. Milan, 1874. Folio.

From the publishers, Paris: Revue des Cours Littéraires, 1863-1874 ;
Revue des Cours Scientifiques, 1865-1874, 28 vols. 4to.

From the Royal University of Norway, Christiania: The Cathedral of
Throndheim. Christiania, 1859. Folio. Die Pflanzenwelt Norwegens.
Christiania, 1873-1895. 4dto. Magnetism der Erde von Christopher
Hansteen. 4to, with folio atlas. Christiania, 1819. Norges Melodier,
arrangerede for pianoforte med text. Kjébenhavn. 8vo. Die Aegypti-
schen Denkmiilerin St. Petersburg, Helsingfors, Upsala, und Copenhagen,
von J. Lieblein, mit 35 autographirten 'Tafelu. Christiania, 1875. 8vo.
Norges Mynter i Middelalderen af C. A. Holmbre. Christiania, 1865. 4to.
Geologisk Kart over det séndenfjeldske Norge af Dr. Kjenelf. Meteo-
rologisk Storm-Atlas af H. Mohn. Christiana, 1870. Folio. Denkmale
der Holzbaukunst in Norwegen. Folio. Noske Nationaldragter af C.
Tonsberg. Christiania. 4to. Portola Ségur, ved C. R. Unger. Chris-
tiania, 1874. 8vo. Remains from the Iron Age of Scandinavia, by O.
Montelius. Stockholm, 1869. 4to.

From Mr. James L. Bowes, Liverpool: Keramic Art of Japan. By
George Ashdown Auderley and James Lord Bowes. Parts I and Il.
Illustrated. London and Liverpool, 1875. Folio. Also descriptive cat-
alogue of art works in Japanese lacquer, 1875. 4to.

From the Public Library of Buenos Ayres: Government documents,
scientific, historical, biographical and poetical works, 68 volumes, 114
parts of volumes, and 35 pamphlets.

From the Royal Library, Stockholm: Government documents, 100
volumes.

From the Bureau of Statistics, Stockholm: Bidrag till Sveriges
Officiela Statistik, 24 parts, 4to, and Notices sur la Suede. Stockholm,
1875. Svo.

From the Finnish Scientific Society, Helsingfors: 9 volumes of their
publications.

From the Universities of Dorpat, Helsingfors, Berlin, Bonn, Breslau,
Erlangen, Freiburg, Gottingen, Halle, Heidelberg, Jena, Leipzig, Mar-
burg, Rostock, Basel, and Ziirich: Inaugural dissertations for 1874.

From the Library of Parliament, Ottawa, Canada: 15 volumes gov-
ernment documents.

From the Board of Admiralty, London: 26 charts published by the
Hydrographic Office, from January, 1874, to January, 1875. The Ad-
miralty Catalogue of Charts, Plans, &¢., 1875; Catalogue of the Admir-
alty Library, 1875; and 10 lists of lights.

From the State Library of Illinois: 16 volumes State documents.

From the State Library of Vermont: 9 volumes State documents.

From Sir Charles Hartley, in behalf of the European Commission of
the Danube: The second volume of lithographed plates of surveys, &c¢.,
36 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

of the commission, with descriptive texts. The first volume of this very
valuable and important work was presented to the Institution some
years ago by Baron d@’Offenberg, the late Russian Minister at Wash-
ington.

Among the most interesting works presented is that of the first part
of the series of fac-similes of the National Manuscripts of Ireland. The
art of photozincography was invented by Maj. Gen. Sir Henry James, in
1860, and in 1866 he was ordered to produce five hundred fac-simile copies
of Domesday Book, and afterward a series of national manuscripts to il-
lustrate the changes in the English language and writing since the time
of the Conquest. The publication of the first series in four volumes
was finished in 1869. The government then concluded to have a se-
ries of documents of a similar character produced from the Scotch Rec-
ords, with translation, which was finished in 1872. Her Majesty’s gov-
ernment next authorized the publication of a series from the Irish Rec-
ords, the first part of which, with all the other series, has been received
by the Institution. The English series of fac-similes contains a great
number of extremely valuable historical manuscripts of various kinds—
legal, diplomatic, and epistolary. The Scotch series consists mainly of
copies of a large number of royal and other charters and important state
papers. The Irish series is remarkable not only for the great antiquity
of many of the manuscripts comprised in it, but also for the splendid
examples of pictorial art which it contains.

Among the articles presented to the library is a photograph of an
Egyptian papyrus, about 40 feet in length, from Mr. John 8S. Edgar,
United States consul at Beirut, Syria, discovered in December, 1874, in
a previously unopened tomb at Thebes, Egypt.

It is proper to state, in connection with the library, that the following
act of courtesy to the Regentsof the Smithsonian Institution, residing in
Washington, was passed by Congress March 3, 1875: “That the Joint
Committee of both Houses of Congress on the Library be authorized to
extend the use of books in the Library of Congress to Regents of the
Smithsonian Institution resident in Washington on the same conditions
and restrictions as members of Congress are allowed to use the Library.”

TELEGRAPHIC ANNOUNCEMENT OF ASTRONOMICAL DISCOVERIES,

The important arrangement which was concluded between the Smith-
sonian Institution and the Atlantic cable companies in 1873, by which
free telegraphic transmission of astronomical discoveries was granted
between Europe and America, has been continued during the past year.

The following is a list of the asteroids discovered in 1875:

No. 141, discovered by Paul Henry, at Paris, January 13.

No. 142, uf by J. Palisa, at Pola, January 28.

No. 143, s by J. Palisa, at Pola, February 23.

No. 144, ce by C. H. F. Peters, at Clinton, June 4.

No. 145, és by C. H. I. Peters, at Clinton, June 4.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 3¢

No. 146, discovered by A. Borelly, at Marseilles, June 8.
No. 147, os by Schulhof, at Berlin, July 11.

No. 148, e by Prosper Henry, at Paris, August 7.
No. 149, oe by Perrotin, at Toulouse, October 6.

No. 150, fs by Watson, at Ann Arbor, October 18.
No. 151, CS by Palisa, at Pola, November 1.

No. 152, a by Paul Henry, at Paris, November 2.
No. 153, ae by Palisa, at Pola, November 2.

No. 154, eS by Prosper Henry, at Paris, November 4.
No. 155, . by Palisa, at Pola, November 8.

No. 156, se by Palisa, at Pola, November 22.

No. 157, gs by Borelly, at Marseilles, December 1.

CORRESPONDENCE.

The correspondence of the Institution continues to increase from
year to year. Not only are there upward of 2,000 foreign institu-
tions that require acknowledgments for works presented to libraries, or
for specimens tothe museum, but there are also an increasing num-
ber of individuals in different parts of the old and new worlds who,
through the institution, make inquiries as to subjects connected with
various branches of knowledge relative to America.

In this country the public generally consider the Institution as an
establishment to which requests may be addressed asking information
on all branches of knowledge, the solution of various scientifie prob-
lems, the examination and indorsement both of scientific investigation
and crude unscientific speculations. In the line of mathematies during
the past year, we have had communications the object of which was the
duplication of the cube, the quadrature of the circle, and the tri-section
of an angle, in which the writers confidently anticipated that no flaw
could be found in their reasoning; and indeed in some cases much labor
was required to point out the fallacy. But the most troublesome cor-
respondents are persons of extensive reading, and in some eases of con-
siderable literary acquirements, who in earlier life were not imbued with
scientific methods, but who, not without a certain degree of mental
power, imagine that they have made great discoveries in the way of
high generalizations. Their claims not being allowed, they rank them-
selves among the martyrs of science, against whom the scientific
schools and the envy of the world have arrayed themselves. Indeed,
to such intensity does this feeling arise in certain persons that on their
special subjects they are really monomaniacs, although ou others they
may be not only entirely sane, but even evince abilities of a high
order. This mental condition is not confined to our country. A notable
example of it is found in the case of the celebrated German poet,
Goethe, who, examining a dark patch on a white wall through a prism,
saw the upper and lower edges of the dark figure bordered with the colors
of the rainbow. On this observation he founded a theory of colors,
38 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

which included the idea that blackness was a compound of all colors,
and that the ordinary theory, which had been propounded by Newton,
was an absurdity. So thoroughly did he become imbued with this con-
ception that it was in vain to attempt to convince him of its fallacy,
and he was irritated almost to madness when the name of Newton was
mentioned with commendation.

In this connection we may mention as a somewhat singular coinci-
dence, that at the beginning of this Institution the author of this report
was called upon to examine a paper, presented for publication by a pro-
fessor in one of the most prominent universities of this country, in which
the author had adopted as anoriginal suggestion the same hypothesis as
that of Goethe, and whose indignation on account of its rejection was
expressed in terms of little courtesy. Two persons of this class have
recently made a special journey to Washington, from distant parts of
the country, to demand justice from the Institution, in the way of
recognition of their claims to discoveries in science of great importance
to humanity, and each of them has made an appeal to his Representa-
tive in Congress to aid him in compelling the Institution to acknowledge
the merits of his speculations.

Providence vindicates in such cases the equality of its justice in giving
to such persons an undue share of self-esteem, and an exaltation of confi-
dence in themselves, which in a great degree compensate for the want
of what they conceive to be the just appreciation of the public. Unless,
however, they are men of great benevolence of disposition, who can
look with pity on what they deem the ignorance and prejudice of lead-
ers of science, they are apt to indulge in a bitterness of denunciation
which might be injurious to the reputation of the Institution were their
effects not neutralized by the extravagance of the assertions themselves.
The representatives of this class of persons are increasing with the
increase of the diffusion of popular knowledge.. It must not be
understood that this remark is made to disparage the diffusion of
scientific knowledge, but simply to indicate that there are classes of
minds of a peculiar idiosynerasy which tend to expend their power in
unconditioned and unfruitful speculation ; neither do we condemn sci-
entific speculation, for the discovery of all great principles of science is
the result of antecedent hypotheses or speculations, which are, however,
founded on definite analogies of the known, and finally adopted or
rejected by the test of the exact agreement of predictions based upon
them with the actual phenomena of nature.

During the past year a number of communications have been received
in regard to the discovery of new motive-powers as to which extrava-
gaunt ideas have been entertained relative to superseding coal-power
as an element for the propulsion of machinery. In regard to these, we
may say that science has established the great fact, without the possi-
bility of doubt, that what is called power, or that which produces
changes in matter, cannot be created by man, but exists in nature in a
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 39

state of activity or in a condition of neutralization; and furthermore,
that all the original forces connected with our globe, as a general rule,
have assumed a state of permanent equilibrium, and that the crust of
the earth as a whole, with the exception of the comparatively exceed-
ingly small proportion, consisting of organic matter, such as coal, wood,
&e., is, as it were, a burnt slag, incapable of yielding power; that all
the motions and changes on its surface are due to actions from celestial
space, principally from the sun. These are comprised under the heads
of wind-power, water-power, tide-power, and heat-power as developed
in the combustion of coal. Beside these there are no indications of
any other motive-powers. It is true, the heat of the interior of the
earth may hereafter be utilized—that wind, water, and especially tide
power may also be more generally employed than at present. Great
improvements are possible also in the application of coal-power; the
present steam-engine is exceedingly wasteful of useful effect, and the
perfection of the air-engine is much to be desired.

The application of the direct heat of the sun to produce motive energy
can searcely ever compete with the indirect application of this power
through growing plants and the subsequent combustion of the fuel which
they furnish.

All attempts to substitute electricity or magnetism for coal-power
must be unsuccessful, since these powers tend to an equilibrium from
which they can only be disturbed by the application of another power,
which is the equivalent of that which they can subsequently exhibit.
They are, however, with chemical attraction, &c., of great importance
as intermediate agents in the application of the power of heat as de-
rived from combustion.

Science does not indicate in the slightest degree the possibility of the
discovery of a new primary power comparable with that of combustion,
as exhibited in the burning of coal. Whatever unknown powers may
exist in nature capable of doing work, must be in a state of neutraliza-
tion, otherwise they would manifest themselves spontaneously, and from
this state of neutralization or equilibrium they can only be released by
the action of an extraneous power of equivalent energy, and we
therefore do not hesitate to say that all declarations of the dis-
covery of a new power which is to supersede the use of coal as
a motive-power, have their origin in ignorance or deception, and
frequently in both. A man of some ingenuity in combining mechan-
ical elements, and having some indefinite scientific knowledge, imagines
it possible to obtain a certain result by a given combination of princi-
ples, and by long brooding over this subject, previous to experiment, at
length convinces himself of the certainty of the anticipated result.
Having thus deceived himself by his sophisms, he calls upon his neigh-
bors to accept his conclusions as verified truths, and soon acquires the
notoriety of having made a discovery which is to change the civilization
wr

AO REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

of the world. The shadowy reputation which he has thus acquired is
too gratifying to his vanity to be at once relinquished by the announce-
ment of his self-deception, and in preference he applies his ingenuity in
devising means by which to continue the deception of his friends and
supporters long after he himself has been convinced of the fallacy of his
first assumptions. In this way what was commenced in folly generally
ends in fraud.

The records of the Patent-Office of this country exhibit a greater
amount of thought and ingenuity employed in the way of invention
than perbaps in any other country, but for want of more definite con-
ceptions of scientific principles, an immense amount of labor is ex-
pended in futile attempts to produce results which are unattainable.

Another branch of the correspondence relates to questions in regard
to the naming of objects of nataral history, and especially to specimens
of mineralogy. The interest which is felt in regard to the mining-pro-
ducts of the country induce large numbers of specimens of ores to be
submitted to the Institution for examination. The rule adopted in re-
gard to these, is to give the results of a qualitative analysis, that is, an
enumeration of the substances contained in each specimen, without
giving the percentage of each. This information can be given without
very much labor for a single specimen, whereas an exact quantitative
analysis would require more time than the Institution can devote to an
inquiry which may be of commercial value to an individual, but of no
especial interest to the public at large. When information as to the
percentage of ingredients is required, the party is referred to some ex-
pert who will make the examination desired for a proper compensation.
This distinction in the kind of information furnished is necessary to pre-
vent the name of the Institution from being connected with transactions
of a character which have been injurious to the reputation of those con-
cerned in them.

In carrying on the correspondence, much assistance has been rendered
by the collaborators of the Institution.

ETHNOLOGY.

From the commencement of the Institution to the present time, the arch-
zology of the United States has been to it an object of special interest.
In all cases in which information has been received of the locality of a
field of probable interesting discovery, an appropriation has been made
for its ethnological explorations. The articles obtained from such
sources have been deposited in the National Museum, with the intention
of having descriptions and discussions of them published in the Smith-
sonian Contributions to Knowledge. The archeology of the United
States has not been the only part of ethnology to which attention has
been given, but also special effort has been made from the first to obtain
illustrations and descriptions of the now-existing native inhabitants of
the North American continent. This latter subject is very important in
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. Al

furnishing the materials for ascertaining the uses of the implements of
the Stone Age found in the ancient mounds, since many of them with
perhaps slight modification are in use at the present time among the
more remote Indians of the western portion of this country. For exam-
ple, pointed stone implements found in the mounds which have been
thought to be arrow and javelin points, are now employed as knives,
to which wooden handles are attached by means of a vegetable cement,
and from the transmission of usages we may confidently assume that
similar handles, long since decayed, were also originally attached to like
implements of undoubted ancient origin.

The subject of ethnology has received a very great impetus through
the appropriation of Congress for the display of illustrations at the
Centennial, circulars having been distributed, requesting the corres-
pondents of the Institution to aid in collecting specimens and to give
information as to the existence of special collections, from which unique
specimens could be borrowed for copying in plaster. The Institution
has also engaged the services of Dr. Rau, of New York, the well-known
ethnologist, to classify and arrange the whole collection in the National
Museum, and to prepare a descriptive catalogue for publication. He has
commenced with the classification of the specimens of the Stone Age, and
has nearly completed this part of the general work. In this classifica-
tion it has been thought proper to separate the objects belonging to
times anterior to the occupation of the continent by Europeans, from
those which have been used since that period. The first archeological
series more particularly comprises objects found in mounds and other
burial-places of early date, in caves, shell-heaps, &c., or, in other words,
those which cannot with certainty be ascribed to tribes’ still in exist-
ence, or which have become extinct within historical times.

The second, or more strictly ethnological, series, consists of objects ob-
tained from existing native tribes, and contains almost every article
tending to illustrate the domestic life, hunting, fishing, games, warfare,
navigation—in short, every phase of Indian existence that can be exhib-
ited by tangible objects.

An account of what has been added to this department will be found
in the report on the Museum by Prof. Baird, and also in the Appendix.

MISCELLANEOUS.

The Institution, as in former years, has been in harmonious co-opera-
tion with the Department of Agriculture, the Army Medical Museum,
and the Coreoran Art Gallery. With the first it has deposited plants
and other articles relating to agriculture; to the second it has trans-
ferred a large number of articles pertaining to comparative anatomy
and materia medica, and has received in return ethnological specimens ;
in the third, the Corcoran Art Gallery, it has deposited a number of en-
gravings.

The Secretary of the Institution being one of the trustees of the Art-
42 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

Gallery, the connection between the two establishments is not only cor-
dial, but of an intimate character. The gallery during the year has
been enriched by a large collection of rare plaster-casts, copies of the
principal statues of the Vatican, and has been visited by a large num-
ber of citizens and strangers as a source of refined pleasure, and by a
number of persons as means of practical improvement in art. We learn
with pleasure that Mr. Corcoran, in addition to his munificent gifts to
the city of Washington, is making provision for a series of art-studios,
which cannot fail to add to the refined culture of the national capital.

Chemical laboratory.—During the past three years the laboratory of
the Institution has been in charge of Dr. Oscar Loew, the chemist and
mineralogist of the Wheeler survey; and during this time he has made
various analyses for the Institution of minerals, mineral-waters, and
other substances referred to the Institution for examination by the
Government and other parties.

In behalf of the Wheeler expedition he has investigated and analyzed
the waters of twenty different thermal springs, mineral springs, and
alkaline lakes of Southern California; soils of arable lands and of the
desert of Southern California; saline efflorescences from numerous
localities in the Mohave desert, and ores and rocks from the same
locality.

Photography.—The photographic laboratory, under the direction of
Mr. T. W. Smillie, has been removed to the new building erected ex-
pressly for its accommodation and for the use of the taxidermists and
naturalists engaged in preparing specimens for the Centennial Exhibi-
tion. A large number of photographs have been made of ethnological
and natural history specimens for the use of the Institution, and a large
amount of work done for others, especially for the United States Fish-
Commission and Government surveys.

The Institution has been engaged for several years in collecting pho-
tographic likenesses of distinguished cultivators of science in all parts
of the world, of the meteorological observers who for many years fur-
nished valuable records of their observations, of the contributors to the
ethnological department of the National Museum, of and other corres-
pondents of the Institution. Of these photographs, four hundred have
been received, which are neatly framed and form an interesting feature
of the collections.

Light-house duty.—I have been a member of the Light-House Board
since its first organization, and during all this time have discharged the
duty of chairman of the committee on experiments. On the resignation
of Admiral Shubrick in 1871, I was honored by an the election as chair-
man of the board. In the discharge of the duties connected with this
service, I usually devote one day in the week and the greater proportion of
my summer vacation. It may not be improper for me to remark that
for the labors which I have thus bestowed upon the light-house service
for upward of twenty years, I have received no other remuneration than
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 43

that which results from the consciousness of having labored somewhat
successfully in advancing the efficiency of a service which is one of
the benevolent institutions of the present day tending to facilitate the
harmonious intercourse of nations widely separated by intervening
oceans.

During the last summer I devoted the entire vacation to the investi-
gation of sound in its relation to fog-signals, the results of which have
been published in the report of the Light-House Board for 1875. These
investigations were a continuation of those of former years, and tend
to establish the facts previously obtained, as well as to extend the
knowledge of the phenomena of sound in its application to the uses of
the mariner.

In these investigations the following conclusions have been arrived
at:

1. That the rays of a beam of sound do not, like those of a beam of
light, move parallel to each other from the surface of a concave reflector,
but constantly diverge laterally on all sides, and although at first they
are more intense in the axis of the reflector, they finally spread out so
as to encompass the whole horizon, thus rendering the use of reflectors to
enforce fog-signals of little value.

2. That the effect of wind in increasing or diminishing sound is not
confined to currents of air at the surface of the earth, but that those of
higher strata are also active in varying its transmission.

3. That although sound is generally heard farther with the wind than
against it, yet in some instances the reverse is remarkably the case.

4, That sound may be heard in some cases at a greater distance,
while it is inaudible at a less distance from its origin.

5. That a distant sound may be heard at the top of a tower in some
cases when it is inaudible at the bottom.

6. That sound experiences a refraction deflecting it, in some cases, in
a horizontal direction, and in others in a vertical plane, which explains
most of the phenomena above mentioned.

The results obtainedshave excited considerable interest in this coun-
try and in Hurope, and have given rise to criticism and discussions
which will tend to enlarge and diffuse the knowledge of this important
subject.

I have also, in behalf of the Light-House Board, made a series of
experiments on petroleum as a light-house illuminant. These experi-
ments were in continuation of those which I had previously made in
regard to the introduction of lard-oil. Previous to the establishment of
the Light-House Board, sperm-oil had been exclusively used in our
system of light-houses, but the expense of this gradually increased from
year to year until it became as high as $3 per gallon. After a laborious
series of experiments, it was found that, under certain conditions, lard-oil
might be substituted, and as this could be purchased at the time for
from 50 to 60 cents per gallon, a saving of more than a hundred thousand
dollars per annum was the result of the change. At the same time, a
44 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

series of investigations, was made in regard to petroleum, but at that
period the only refined petroleum submitted to the board after advertise-
ment was that of a volatile character, and too dangerous. to be adopted
for light-house purposes. Since then, however, the price of lard-oil
has constantly increased, while refined petroleum can now be obtained
of such a character as to be safely employed by ordinary light-house
keepers. Its introduction, therefore, in regard to economy, is a matter of
much importance. But great care must be exercised in selecting oil of
a proper quality, and hence the necessity of a thorough knowledge of its
peculiarities in regard to safety.

In the investigations on this subject, it was ascertained that the fire-
test usually employed to establish the character of a given oil in reference
to safety was not in itself sufficient to settle this question. Many of
the oils in general use, which, at the temperature of the atmosphere, in-
creased by that from the burning of the lamp, give off a vapor which, if
suffered to accumulate and mingle with the air in the space above the
oil in the reservoir, produces a mixture which, if in definite proportion,
explodes with the violence of gunpowder. It is true, on the doctrine of
chances, an explosion may seldom take place, but still, the conditions
necessary are frequently present, and only requires the application of a
flame to produce a disastrous effect.

Although the discovery of the petroleum wells of Pennsylvania has
been an immense boon to humanity, yet the advantage gained from it
has been dearly bought by the aecidents which have resulted from its
incautious use. Its sale ought to be regulated by rigid enactments of
legislatures, and none suffered to be sold which exhales a vapor capable
of producing an explosion when mixed except at a temperature much
above that at which the lamp is subjected in the warmest period of the
year.

Fish Commission.—The investigation in regard to food-fishes and the
methods of their propagation, for which an appropriation for several
years has been annually made by Congress, has been continued under
the direction of Professor Baird. This work was commenced in 1872,
and has been prosecuted with satisfactory results to the present time.
The species to which special attention has been given are shad, the
fresh-water herring, the striped bass or rock-fish, the California salmon,
the salmon of Maine, the land-locked salmon, the white-fish, and the
carp, each of these having special relations to certain portions of the
country, and promising in their anticipated aggregate an extremely
important addition to the food-resources of the United States.

The States which have, up to this time, been the recipients of spawn
and young fish are thirty-two in number. The extension of the benefit
to other States, and its amplification in all, is simply a question of time
and expenditure. The subject of fish culture is one of general popu-
larity, as is evinced by the appointment of fish-commissioners in nine-
teen States, in most instances for the purpose of direct co-operation
with the United States Commission.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 45

The importance of the subject may be inferred from the fact that it
may be stated, without exaggeration, that the waters bordering our
Shores can be made to yield a larger percentage of nutriment, acre for
acre, than the land. Indeed, fish culture is the only efficient means by
which the fertilizing ingredients of the soil, which are constantly car-
ried into the ocean by sewage, can be reclaimed for the reproduetion of
nutriment to organized beings. By want of a reclamation of this kind,
certain portions of the earth thickly inhabited in ancient times have
become sterile and almost deserted.

For the purpose of giving an idea of the nature and extent of the
operations of the United States Fish Commission, Professor Baird gives
the following statement, showing the distribution of fish during the
years 1874 and 1875:

Of youne Shadlir 4.152115 bralehereke eee) eet aeieiors Mefto see 18, 689, 550
Of Penobscot salmon....... HobosS aniseponocacoadanepEooS 2, 294, 565
Of California salmon .........- sdb ooat Soars siete Secce US OOL. S40

Total young fish ...... nee one St este ets Sees 25, 565, 455

To this is to be added the hatching and distribution, during the winter
and spring of 1875~76, of California salmon, Penobscot salmon, land-
locked salmon, and lake white-fish, not yet completed, amounting to at
least fourteen million fish, thus making a total of forty million fish sup-
plied by the United States Fish Commission in three years. This, at
the assumed ratio of 1 to 200, would represent the proceeds of eight
thousand million of eggs laid in the natural way, and subject to all the

perils of natural spawning.

Polaris expedition.—Dr. Emil Bessels during the year has continued his
labors at the Institution on the scientific materials which were saved
from the Polaris expedition to the Arctic regions in the years 1871—73,
with the exception of two months in the summer, which were devoted to
an attempt to make an exploration of Alaska in the United States
steamer Saraaac. He was, however, unfortunately shipwrecked and
lost all his outfit. The first volume of the scientific results of the
Polaris Expedition, relating to astronomy, pendulum experiments, tem per-
ature, winds, psychrometer, solar radiation, terrestrial radiation, ozone,
face of the sky, meteorology, those taken at sea, &c., has been printed,
and makes 793 pages. The volume will contain 960 pages, 14 plates, 2
maps, and 40 weod-cuts. Volumes II and III are under preparation, the
former being devoted to natural history, comprising zodlogy, botany, geol-
ogy, paleontology, mineralogy, containing about 250 pages, 10 plates, and
30 wood-cuts; the latter will comprise a complete monograph on the Es-
kimo, illustrated by a hundred plates and 300 wood-cuts. Of the former,
do are ready to be engraved; of the latter 122 are drawn and 74 are en-
graved. The expense of preparation of this work and of theillustrations is
defrayed by an appropriation of $15,000 by Congress at its last session.
46 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

NATIONAL MUSEUM.

The National Museum was established by the Government in 1842,
and consisted of the specimens collected by the Wilkes exploring expe-
dition. It was transferred from the Patent Office to the care of the
Smithsonian Institution in 1858, where it has been enlarged by all the
collections made by exploring and surveying parties of the several
bureaus of the War, Navy, Treasury, and Interior Departments, and
those of the Smithsonian Institution.

At first, $4,000 were allowed by Congress for the care and exhibition
of the specimens. This sum has been gradually increased to $20,000.
Nothing, however, has been allowed for the rent of the building, which
was erected exclusively out of the income from the bequest of Smith-
son.

The following report from Prof. SPENCER F. BAIRD, Assistant Secre-
tary, gives an account of the additions to the Museum and the various
operations connected with it during the year 1875:

Increase of the National Musewm.—The year 1875 constitutes a marked
epoch in the history of this establishment, the increase in the number
and comparative value of the specimens received, as also the work done
in connection with the same, being much greater than that of any pre-
vious year. Thisis due partly to the natural increase year by year, which
has been experienced since 1865, but more particularly as the result of
special efforts made to prepare a suitable exhibition of the natural his-
tory and ethnology of the country at the International Exhibition of
1876.

For the purpose of enabling the Institution to exhibit a satisfactory
display of the mineral, animal, fishery, and ethnological condition of
the country, an appropriation was made by Congress of $67,000, sub-
ject, however, to a deduction for the erection of a building and the
preparation of the surrounding grounds for that occasion. As this
amounted to about $17,000, the sum actually available was $50,000. In
addition to this, $5,000 was appropriated for the department of the food-
fishes.

As many important gaps existed in the collection of American animals,
speedy efforts were made to procure such as were wanting, or to replace
such as were in bad condition.

The object of the exhibition in question was to present the industrial
relations and applications of American natural history and geology;
and as this had been entirely neglected previously, it became necessary
to commence from the beginning and study out a plan of operations
after determining the general character of the exhibit that was to be
made. With this view, a series of circulars was prepared on the different
subjects, and sent to all the correspondents of the Institution, accom-
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. AT

panied with special directions for collecting, packing, and shipping, as
also a schedule of classification.

The mineral department was first organized, and was placed in charge
of Prof. William P. Blake, an experienced mining-engineer and geolo.
gist. In this work he was assisted by Mr. Thomas Donaldson, who had
charge of the collecting of the gold and silver ores of the West, and of
which he secured a very complete and exhaustive representation.

The department of the animal products and of the fisheries was placed
more particularly in Mr. Goode’s charge ; and that of ethnology assigned
to Dr. Rau. For fuller details of what has been done in this and other
branches, I refer to my special report to you.

As the general result of the agencies that have been set in motion, I
may state that the contributions in 1875 amounted to over one thousand
in number, embracing nearly two thousand packages, from four hundred
and sixty-four different parties, this being, as already stated, far in
excess of those of any previous year.

1 present herewith a list of these donations, arranged alphabetically,
and to which I refer for additional details, the aggregate being too great
to permit the systematic plan of presentation of previous years.

Under the head of Mammals, the most important addition to the
stock is that of the series of skins of the fur-seal and sea-lion, presented
by the Alaska Commercial Company, twenty specimens of the former
and five of the latter constituting the contribution. To this company
the Smithsonian Institution is under many obligations, not only for
securing and sending the skins, but for acting as its agent in San Fran-
cisco for the transaction of its business, connected with the transmission
of supplies to its correspondents and the forwarding to Washington of
their collections. From Mr. Charles E. Aiken, of Colorado, several
specimens of mountain-buffalo and other animals have been received.
Capt. James Gilliss has supplied the black-tailed deer ; Colonel Brock-
ett, a fine elk; Mr. P. T. Barnum, specimens of various animals that
have died in his menagerie, such as the eland, giraffe, sea-lion, ostrich,
Se. Rev. R. R. McLeod, of Houlton, Me., has furnished nearly all the
mammals of Maine, such as the caribou, the beaver, the porcupine, the
fisher, the marten, &c.

Of birds, the more especial contributions are a series of fine specimens
from Mr. 8. C. Bowman, a skin of the Honduras turkey from Mr. F. E.
Sarg, and a collection of Alaskan species from Mr. Lucien M. Turner.

Numerous small lots of reptiles and amphibia have been received from
various gentlemen, and will be found enumerated in the list.

Of fishes, the most important special collections are a series of the
fishes of Norway from Mr. Robert Collett, and those gathered by the
United States Fish Commission; types of South American fishes, from
C. Rh. Liitken ; collections from the vicinity of Newport, by Mr. Samuel
Powel; and from Gloucester, by J.S. Whitman; from California and
Oregon, by Mr. Livingston Stone, &e.
48 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

Of the fresh-water and land shells, all the collections were placed in
charge of Dr. James Lewis for arrangement, and occasion was taken
to issue a special circular, asking contributions to this department.
Many responses were made to this invitation, and the collection thereby
greatly increased.

Other invertebrates were secured by the efforts of the United, States
Fish Commission, and through correspondents.

The department of ethnology has been especially enriched in conse-
quence of the desire to render the Centennial display a success. In this
the co-operation of the Indian Bureau of the Department of the Interior
has been of the greatest importance. Among the most valuable
acquisitions in this department have been the collections of Mr. Paul
Schumacher and his party on the mainlands and the islands adjacent to
Santa Barbara, as also those of Rev. Stephen Bowers in the same
neighborhood. Collections of less magnitude were also made by Mr.
Schumacher in Oregon. The Alaska Commercial Company presented
a series of nine mummies from Kagaymil Island of the Aleutian group,
and one from Prince William’s Sound, all of much ethnological inter-
est, being the first specimens of the kind ever received from Alaska.

The traditions respecting the Aleutian mummies indicate that they
are at least one hundred and fifty years old, antedating the discovery
of the islands by the Russians. One of the bodies in a sitting posture
was encased in a rude casket of raw-hide, lashed in a netting of sinews,
all parts in an excellent state of preservation. Another body is with-
out covering. Of these valuable ethnological specimens, three have
been presented to other establishments, viz, the Peabody Ethnological
Museum, Cambridge, Mass.; Yale College, New Haven, Conn., and the
American Museum, New York City.

Col. William F. Arny has supplied a series of dresses and utensils of
the Navajo Indians, and Maj. J. W. Powell an extensive series of similar
objects from the Shoshone, the Bannock, and other tribes. Mr. James
G. Swan, in the course of a special exploration for the Centennial, has
furnished @ vast number of interesting ethnological objects from Sitka,
Queen Charlotte’s Islands, British Columbia, and Puget Sound.

Mr. Stephen Powers visited Nevada and California, with the special
object of obtaining collections for the Centennial, the results of which
are of very great magnitude. A very valuable collection of pre-historic
implements from New England was obtained from Mr. J. H. Clark, of
New York, and a great number of contributions of a similar character,
in small numbers, have been received, for which reference must be
made to the appended list. From points outside of the United States
the most important contribution is that of objects of stone and earthen
ware, gathered by the late George Latimer in the island of Porto
Rico, where, for many years a resident, he devoted himself to bringing
together everything of antiquarian interest. This gentleman died in
Paris in November, 1874, and bequeathed this collection to the Smith-
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 49g

sonian Institution, and it was received in April last, and is, by far, the
most complete series of the kind in existence, embracing as it does a
number of peculiar forms, scarcely known elsewhere.

Mr. Hugo Finck, of Cordova, has furnished some very ancient Ameri-
can antiquities, and corresponding objects from Salvador have been

upplied by Dr. Flint. Professor Gabb has contributed an extremely
exhaustive and important collection of articles from Costa Rica, leaving
but little to be desired in the line of ethnology from that country. Mr.
Steinberg has sent some interesting specimens, models of boats, &c.,
from the Samoan Islands. Mr. J. B. Norton contributed a collection of
antiquities from Peru, including quite a number of interesting articles
in bronze.

From the University of Christiania has been received a very interest-
ing group consisting of a life-size figure of a Laplander in his native
costume seated in a sledge attached to a mounted reindeer, the whole
forming an interesting ethnological illustration of the art of locomotion
in Seandinavia.

The additions to the department of mineralogy have also been very
great, and will be found detailed in the accompanying list.

The number of miscellaneous collections received during the year, cov-
ering more than one department of natural history, has been very great.
These have been principally from Government expeditions, the collec-
tions of which were deposited with the Smithsonian Institution, in com-
pliance with the law of Congress constituting it the custodian of the
National Museum. Among the more important of these, we may men-
tion the collections made by the party of Lieut. George M. Wheeler in
the West, embracing a large variety of objects, including many skins of
mammals, birds, eggs, reptiles, insects, &c. The collections of Major
Powell, although principally ethnological, and referred to under that
head, also embraced numerous animals and other objects.

In the report for 1874, reference was made to the preparations by the
United States for the Transit of Venus expedition and the arrangements
of the Institution to secure interesting objects of ethnology and natural
history; and Iam happy to say that the results have been far beyond
all reasonable expectations. The most valuable collection of the kind
was that made by Dr. J. G. Kidder, assistant surgeon on board the
Swatara, and who, on the arrival of the vessel at Kerguelen Island,
remained with the astronomical party, and devoted his energies to the
investigation of the natural history of that little-known land. His col-
lections made there embrace large numbers of birds, eggs, some mam-
mals, and marine invertebrates and plants. A report on the results of
his labors occupies two numbers of the lately commenced Bulletin of
the United States National Museum. Dr. Kershner, the surgeon of
the Swatara, also made large contributions somewhat similar in their
general characcer to those of Dr. Kidder, and embracing species col-
lected at ports that were visited by the vessel. ;

S. Mis. 115——4
50 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

The collections made by Mr. Russell, one of the photographers of the
expedition, at Hobart Town and vicinity, were also very important, and
included some specimens obtained from the Colonial Museum for trans-
mission to the Smithsonian Institution.

From Mr. Edwin Smith, of the United States Coast Survey, in
charge of the party on Chatham Island, have been received some inter-
esting crania of the Maori and Moriori tribes.

As in previous years, the operations of the United States Fish Com-
mission, under my charge, have furnished a rich yield of additions to
the National Museum. Its headquarters for the season were established
at Wood’s Hole, Massachusetts, the same station as that of 1871; and
the improved facilities for collecting were made use of to secure large
numbers of marine animals, embracing a stock for distribution as dupli-
cates to other establishments.

Work done in connection with the National Museum.—As might be
expected, the increased number of contributions during the year has
involved a corresponding amount of labor in the way of unpacking,
recording, and general fitting for permanent preservation, taxing
severely the efforts of the regular force and that enlisted temporarily
for the purpose of meeting the exigencies of the Centennial Exhibition.

The actual number of entries made in the record-books of the Insti-
tution during the year was 12,578, carrying the total forward to 210,327.

A large amount of labor has been performed also upon the general
collections. The reptiles and fishes have been put in excellent order by
a transfer to suitable bottles, labeling and recording. The mammals
and the skins of more or less birds have been re-arranged in new cases,
and are now in excellent condition. The entire collection of duplicate
birds’ eggs has been overhauled, and a number of sets selected for dis-
tribution to scientific establishments.

The taxidermists have been diligently at work and have more than
doubled the number of mounted animals of the collection, and greatly
increased that of the birds. The work of preparing plaster-casts of
fishes, reptiles, and cretaceans has also been continued, and this sec-
tion is now believed to be entirely unique.

Outside of the building, as usual, much has been done on the Smith-
sonian collections. Dr. James Lewis, of Mohawk, N. Y., has continued
his labors upon the fresh-water and land shells of the United States
belonging to the Institution, having labeled the reserve series of Uni-
onide, &c., and returned them to the Institution, the duplicates in large
part being made up into sets for distribution.

Mr. J. A. Allen has had several groups of American mammals, espe-
cially the squirrels and the rabbits, from the Institution for the prepa-
ration of a series of monographs. Dr. Elliot Coues has continued his
labors upon the collection of mice, and has also monographed the
American carnivora.

A large number of specimens of insects has been turned over to the
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 51

Museum of the Agricultural Department, in accordance with the ar-
rangement to render that establishment the depository of such objects ;
while to the Army Medical Museum many hundreds of human crania
have been transmitted under a similar understanding. Several special-
ists, in addition to those mentioned, have received material for their
investigation.”

Tucson Meteorite—Among the objects of special interest in the Na-
tional Museum is a very large meteorite from Arizona, of which an ae-
count has been given in previous reports. For the possession of this
specimen the Institution is principally indebted to Dr. B. J. D. Irwin,
surgeon of the United States Army, who, although it had been seen by
other travelers, was the first to conceive the idea of having it transferred
to the Smithsonian Institution. Im carrying out this proposition he
was assisted by the generous co-operation of several persons and trans-
portation companies. Owing to an imperfect history in regard to
_ obtaining this interesting specimen, a label was affixed to it of which
complaint was made by Dr. Irwin. After a review of all the facts of the
case, and in accordance with his suggestion, the specimen is now labeled
~ as follows: ‘The Tucson Meteorite presented to the Smithsonian Insti-
tution by Dr. B. J. D. Irwin, U.S. A., and transported from Tucson,
Ariz., to Washington free of cost by S. Ainsa, the Flint & Halliday
steamers, the Pacific Mail Steamship Company, and the Panama Rail-
road Company.”

We hope this inscription will be satisfactory to Dr. Irwin and do
justice to all concerned in furnishing the National Museum with one of
its most interesting specimens.

GOVERNMENT EXPLORATIONS AND SURVEYS.

The following is a brief account of the principal explorations of the
Government in 1875, from which specimens will be derived for increas-
ing the collections of the National Museum.

The United States Geological and Geographical Survey, under the di-
rection of Professor Hayden, during theseason of 1875, continued its
work of the two previous seasons in Colorado, completing the southern
and southwestern portions, including a belt fifteen miles in width, of
Northern New Mexico and Eastern Utah. The entire force of the sur-
vey was divided into seven parties for special duty, four of which were
assigned to specific areas for the performance of topographical and geo-
logical work, one party attended to the primary triangulation, a second
collected photographic views of the most interesting scenery and ancient
ruins, while a third transported the supplies to the various districts.

The entire area surveyed during the summer of 1875 embraced about
thirty thousand square miles. There now remains only the northwest
corner of Colorado to be examined, prior to the completion of six
Sheets of the physical atlas which has been designed by the Depart-
52 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

ment of the Interior. These maps will be engraved on a scale of four
miles to one inch, and each sheet will embrace an area of about eleven
thousand five hundred square miles. The districts explored during the
past year werenotso mountainous asthose of the previous year, but were
located in the most inaccessible regions of this continent. Much of the
country is drained by the Colorado River and is mainly a plateau country,
cut in every direction by deep gorges or cailons, the sides of which show,
for geological investigations, admirable sections of the strata forming the
earth’s crust. The topography was elaborated in great detail by the use
of the plane-table. The geological structure of the country was care-
fully studied and much material secured that will throw light on the
various problems which have perplexed geologists for years past.

The exploration of the remarkable prehistoric ruins of Southern Col-
orado, glimpses of which were obtained the preceding season, was con-
tinued with great success. They were traced down the cations of the
Colorado River in New Mexico, Utah, and Arizona, and their connec-
tion established with the cliff cities of the Moquis of the latter Terri-
tory. Hundreds of cliff or cave dwellings of curious architecture and
many miles from water were found in the sides of the gorges, and the
ruins of extensive towns discovered in the adjacent plains, indicating ~
the former existence of a people far more numerous and advanced in
the arts of civilization than their supposed descendants of the pres-
ent day. A good collection of pottery, stone implements, the lat-
ter including arrow-heads, axes, and ear ornaments, &c., some pieces
of rope, fragments of matting, water-jars, corn and beans, and other
articles were exhumed ftom the débris of these dwellings. Many
graves were found, and a number of skulls and skeletons, that may
fairly be attributed to the prehistoric inhabitants, were added to the
collection. Of these ruins, many interesting sketches, plans, and pho-
tographs were made, and the materials were secured for an exhaustive
report on this subject, which will be given to the public at an early
day.

The photographer of the survey also obtained a series of mountain
views on plates 24 inches long by 20 wide, or larger by several inches
than any landscape photograph ever before taken in this country.

The publications of the survey during the year 1875 consist of ‘* The
Vertebrata of the Cretaceous Formations of the West,” by E. D. Cope,
303 pages text, quarto, with 57 plates; third edition of ‘ Lists of Eleva-
tions West of the Mississippi,” much enlarged ; second edition of ‘ Cat-
alogue of Photographs ;”and “ Bulletin of the Survey,” in six numbers,
comprising 500 closely printed octavo pages, with 26 plates of sections,
maps, &e.

The work of the Second Division of the United States Geological and
Geographical Survey of the Territories under the direction of Prof. J.
W. Powell, had arrived at the beginning of the year 1875 at a stage at
which it was deemed best that a review of the geology should be made
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 53

for the purpose of establishing with greater accuracy the natural series
of geological formations. A small party was organized for this purpose,
and was led by Professor Powell himself The main party under Prof.
A. H. Thompson, geographer of the division, continued the work during
the past season in the Territory of Utah, over an area of nearly ten thou-
sand square miles, stretching from the Henry Mountains, on the north,
to the Kai-par-o-wits Plateau on the south, and from the Colorado River,
on the east, to the Aquarius Plateau, on the west.

It was found that of the lands surveyed the past season, one-fourth
of 1 per cent. can be utilized by irrigation; about 50 per cent. are pas-
ture-lands; about 9 per cent. are of timber; 4 per cent. mineral-lands;
and the remainder desert.

Mr. G. K. Gilbert studied the structural geology of the country, and
collected the materials for a geological map.

A second and closely allied subject of study has been the eruptions that
produced the Henry Mountains, a third has been the erosion by which
the structure has been laid bare, and a fourth, the Salina Creek un-
conformity. The investigation at Salina Creek was of a special nature,
and its bearings cannot be briefly stated. Its results establish a single
point of geological history, namely, that an epoch of mountain-growth,
of which evidences are found in the Sevier and Sanpete Valleys, and iu
the Pahvan Mountains, occurred at about the end of the Cretaceous
period.

The stratified rocks examined range in age from Carboniferous to
Tertiary. Upon the geological map the combined Trias and Jura will
cover half the space. The volcanic area will come next in size, and after
that the Cretaceous. The excellence of the topographie work will
enable a very thorough delineation of their boundaries.

Fossils were found in numerous localities, but no large collections
were made.

Coal of cretaceous age was seen, but no other valuable minerals.

Captain C. E. Dutton was engaged in the examination of a large tract
consisting of igneous rocks. It lies in Southern Utah, its northern
boundary being about one hundred and fifty miles south of Salt Lake
City, extending thence southward about eighty-five miles, and having
a breadth of about sixty miles. It consists of a series of long, narrow
tables with intervening valleys, and is structurally a repetition of those
features described by Professor Powell as characteristic of the whole of
Southern Utah and Northern Arizona, and which have led him to call it
the Plateau Province. The tables are cut from the platforms of the val-
leys by immense faults and uplifted from 2,000 to 5,500 feet above the
valley-plains, presenting nearly vertical walls, fringed at their base by
rugged foot-hills. The plateaus are composed of thick beds of igneous
rocks well stratified and nearly horizontal; the foot-hills, on the con-
trary, are composed of beds much broken and disturbed and intermixed
with lava. The southern portions are overlaid by a conglomerate which
54 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

commences near the middleof the region, with a thickness of at least
2,300 feet, and diminishes southward to 700 or 800 feet. It is composed
wholly of igneous fragments often of great size, inclosed in a matrix of
sand and clay. In the southern portion it is underlaid by red sand-
stone and white marl of Tertiary Age; in the middle portion, by rocks
of the porphyritic class. The northern and higher portion consists of
well stratified rocks, having the mineral characteristics in some places
of trachyte, in others of rhyolite, but with a structural habit, a texture
and general mode of occurrence very unusual in that kind of rock.
Lava-beds occur abundantly, but, so far as observed, are restricted to
the foot-hills and valleys, and have evidently originated from the vicin-
ity of the great faults.

Captain Dutton is also engaged in the investigation of the micro-
structure of the rocks of that region, and has made considerable prog-
ress in the preparation of specimens for microscopic examination.

Prof. C. A. White, paleontologist of the division, visited many points
in Northern Utah, a few in Northwestern Colorado, and a few in South-
ern Wyoming, making a re-examination of the sedimentary beds of
that region, and the evidences upon which they had been previously
separated into groups. Many localities where fossils had been obtained
in previous years were visited, and other localities were discovered.
The collections made were from the upper portions of the Carbonifer-
ous series through the whole series to near the summit of the Tertiary.
The collections were chiefly of invertebrate fossils and are very full and
satisfactory. Many new species, and also several types hitherto un-
known in American strata, have been obtained. It is an interesting
fact, also, that while the change from a salt or brackish water condition
of the earlier Tertiary deposits to a wholly fresh-water condition took
place without producing any perceptible physical change in the charac-
ter of the strata, the species, mostly molluscan, were more numerous,
and the differentiation of types much greater during the prevalence
of salt in the water than at any subsequent time after the waters be-
came wholly fresh. Indeed, in all the purely fresh-water strata of the
Tertiary groups the species and genera are few, and there is a remark-
able uniformity of type throughout. Both branchiferous and pulmonate
mollusks range through all the Tertiary strata, except that thus far
none of the latter have been found associated with brackish-water forms.
The Green River group has furnished several species of insects. Of
vertebrate remains, some massive fragments of bones of a very large
saurian, found in Jurassic strata five miles west of Vermilion Cafion,
are worthy of remark. Scales and detached bones of teleost fishes were
found in considerable abundance in dark shales at the very base of the
Cretaceous groups at Vermilion Cation, and also at various other points
at the same horizon. Teleost fish remains, mostly very perfect, were
obtained from the Green River group, and also some from other Ter-
tiary strata. Throughout the whole Tertiary series more or less verte-
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 55

brate remains have been found, but it is the Bridger group that has fur-
nished the greatest profusion of mammalian, beside many reptilian and
a tew ganoid remains.

Part of a skeleton of a Passerine bird has been obtained from the
Green River group.

Large collections of plants have been made at numerous localities.
Besides samples of silicified exogenous wood from numerous horizons
throughout the Mesozoic and Tertiary series, leaves, stems, &c., have
been collected from the Upper Cretaceous and Tertiary strata. These
are mostly exogenous, but both ferns and palms were found associated
with them in the Upper Green River group at Alkali Stage Station,
twenty miles northward from Green River City.

Professor Thompson’s party discovered the ruins of many prehistoric
dwellings similar to those found in former years, and their position will
be indicated on the ethnographic map. They also discovered on the
canon-walls and escarpments of the country many Shi/-nu-mo etchings,
which were copied to scale. They will make a valuable addition to the
collections of former years.

While on his travels, Professor Powell met with certain tribes of
Shoshoni Indians whose arts were unrepresented in the National Museum,
and the opportunity was seized to make collections of their implements
and clothing, &c. In all departments, except that of food-plants, these
Indians are now as fully represented as the Utes, Pai Utes, and Shi/-na-
mos by his former collections. Some additions were made to his Sho-
shoni vocabulary and to his mythologic tales.

During the past years of the survey, vocabularies have been collected
of all of the above languages and dialects with the exception of the
Ko-man/-tsu. These are far from being complete, but contain many
hundred words each, some of them two or three thousand each.

The grammatic structure of these languages has also been studied to
some extent, and while no structural principles have been found which
have not been discovered in other Indian languages, much of value has
been obtained.

Mr. L. F. Ward was attached to the division as botanist, and made
very large collections from a region but hitherto little studied. He also
collected a large suite of wood sections of the various shrubs and trees
found in that region.

Mr. J. K. Hillers, the photographer, made a series of negatives, 101 in
number, for topographic and geological purposes, and a series of 10 for
ethnographic purposes.

The operations of the geographical surveys west of the one hundredth
meridian, First Lieut. George M. Wheeler in charge, for the season of
1875 were confined to areas in Colorado, New Mexico, California, and
Arizona, and were prosecuted in pursuance of aspecial project approved
by the Chief of Engineers and the honorable Secretary of War.

The working force for the season was organized as follows: (1.) The
56 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

California section, under the command of Lieut. George M. Wheeler,
Corps of Engineers; (2.) The Colorado section, under the command of
Lieut. William L. Marshall, Corps of Engineers ; and (3) the office-force
in Washington, temporarily in charge of George M. Lockwood, assistant.

The two sections were constituted with a view to asystematic prose-
cution of the geodetic and allied work, and the office force was kept contin-
uously employed upon the reductions of observations. From the Cali-
fornia section a special party under Lieut. Eric Bergland, Corps of En-
gineers, was detached to make certain preliminary examinations and
surveys as to the practicability of diverting the Colorado River. These
labors have been accomplished so far as the past field-season would per-
mit, and Lieutenant Bergland is now engaged in the preparation of his
report. When received, with the maps and sketches, it will be for-
warded, with additional information bearing upon the general subject
of irrigation.

Four other parties from the California section were busily employed
during the working summer months; one, under Lieut. Rogers Birnie,
jr., moving to the south and east of the lower or southern limit of the
Sierra Nevadas; another, under Lieut. C. W. Whipple, Ordnance Corps;
and a special party under Dr. H. C. Yarrow for a brief period in the vi-
cinity of Santa Barbara, Cal. The command of the latter party was
afterward transferred to Dr. J. T. Rothrock, U.S. A., and was finally
merged with the main party commanded by the officer in charge.

The results accomplished were of a highly satisfactory character, and
the improvements introduced noted the transfer to a completely con-
nected geodetic survey. Connection was had with the base-line meas-
ured by Captain, now Brig. Gen. E. O. C. Ord, near Los Angeles, Cal.,
in 1854. The developed base and measured triangles in a triple tier
were carried eastward approximately as far as the one hundred and
twentieth meridian of longitude. For the first time the correct latitude
and longitude of what is probably the highest measured peak in the
United States in the southern Sierras were obtained. The preliminary
reductions show an altitude of 14,900 feet.

The Colorado section was composed of three principal parties: one
under its commanding officer; the second under Lieut. W. L. Carpenter,
Ninth Infantry; and the third in charge of Lieut C. C. Morrison, Sixth
Cavalry. Their operations were in continuation of the organized work
begun by the establishment of a series of main astronomical points
along the east base of the Rocky Mountains, and the development
therefrom of a series of measured bases and triangles so as to envelop
completely the area entered and oceupied, and which finally was to be
connected through from the plains to the Pacific. Their labors were
conducted with skill, energy, and success.

The office-force, engaged in computations, map-drawing, and other
reductions, have suceeeded in completing three additional atlas-sheets
on a scale one inch to eight miles, and are advancing toward comple-
_ tion the work of five others.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 57

The condition of the work up to June 30, 1875, appears more fully
set forth in the annual report of Lieutenant Wheeler, submitted to the
Chief of Engineers.

« A portion of the field-force is now busily employed in the prepara-
tion of the final results at the office of the survey in Washington.

CONCLUSION.

From the foregoing statements I trust it will be evident to all inter-
ested in the prosperity of the Institution that it is successfully prosecut-
ing the plan best adapted for realizing the intentions of its founder ; that
its funds are in a good condition and that its reputation and usefulness
since the date of the last report have suffered no diminution.

Respectfully submitted.

JOSEPH HENRY,
Secretary Smithsonian Institution.
WASHINGTON, January, 1876.
58 APPENDIX TO THE REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

APPENDIX TO THE REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION,
Washington, January 3, 1876.

Sir: I have the honor to present herewith an account of the proposed
plan of exhibition by the Smithsonian Institution at the International
Centennial Exhibition, and the extent to which the work has been ear-
ried on.

History of the movement.—On the 23d of January, 1874, the President
of the United States called upon the various Departments of the Gov-
ernment, including the Smithsonian Institution, to nominate one mem-
ber each, to constitute a board, in behalf of the Executive Departments,
to which should be committed the preparation and adoption of a plan
for a collective exhibition, at the International Exhibition of 1876, “ of
such articles and material as will illustrate the functions and adminis-
trative faculties of the Government in time of peace and its resources
as a war-power, and thereby serve to demonstrate tbe nature of our
institutions and their adaptation to the wants of the people.”

The persons designated, in response to the call of the President, were
the following :

By the Secretary of the Treasury, F. M. Sawyer.

By the Secretary of War, Col. S. C. Lyford, U.S. A.

By the Secretary of the Navy, Aditiral T. A. Jenkins, U.S. N.

By the Secretary of the Interior, John Eaton.

By the Postmaster-General, Dr. Charles F. McDonald.

By the Department of Agriculture, William Saunders.

By the Smithsonian Institution, S. F. Baird.

On the 25th of March, 1874, the nominations were accepted by the
President for the board referred to, and Col. 8. C. Lyford was desig-
nated as chairman. Subsequently, on the retirement of Mr. Sawyer,
Mr. R. W. Tayler was appointed in behalf of the Treasury Department.

The first business before the board being that of preparing a general
plan of the exhibition and estimates of the cost of carrying this out for
each Department, the following estimates were made, after a careful
consideration of the subject, as being absolutely necessary to accomplish
the work on a proper scale:

Interior Department............ Basia: sigya/e.552 Gina teumuaiete ren ote: $211, 000
Treasury Department :: 2 sects semen ccte o-itie terete sae ee 5, 000
Pest-Office Department... 2. -2 MR ew a. ce sien aeee ee eee e-ce 5, 000
Aericultural Department «. sees = 5 eee ae ote Se 50, 000
Smithsonian Institution, (National Museum).........-...... 100, 000
WrareDepartment:.<2 oo 2). 1 Sareea eet emer eee 200, 000
Navy Department. .@@:<.o.3, 2 eee eee eet nal etree 150, 000

Add for show-cases, shelving, incidentals, &c........--....- 50, 000
CENTENNIAL EXHIBITION. ao

For a separate building, capable of removal to Washington
after the close of the Exhibition, to be used as a National Mu-

seum’ at the capital of the nation .........2...-.... 0225. $200, 000
971, 000

These estimates were reduced by the Committee on Appropriations,
which presented to Congress the following, which was passed without
opposition from any quarter:

Niare De WAN RMON Garters. c Ae¥ela, i eccpeislslels tb Voelsincohe oleate See aS) $153, 000
Naar eat oMleM ti teciemys yeys nein es «e/a Be ole yacyosiaia. se iatolels s/o.< > 100, 000
UMBERTO Gar eMeints atom cicis ni aeneec ere psi areas sass SIE stale © 115, 000
PPreasUTyy DSP ANGIE WG. sie:<j-o1<) sper 8 ats hers shots nao ers (See ciel eh osiei 5, 000
EOSt_O MicoeD eparhimnent:s 2. ck icie aa teckoe Seles veep el <ie.ctevele s 5, 000
MATCH TUTAMIOe DALDINCING --12)5 uate) \er 1 eae eee ele Seles == 50, 000
SMICHSOnTa nel MS hMELOM! =< 4a) ooh oper yatta deistteie erence estes 67, 000
United States Commission of Food-Fishes.... ..-... Cee eae eas 5, 000

For show-cases, shelving, stationery, postage, telegrams, ex-
pressace panGncCiden tale. = <c.8 wnichs ol teie, ns cane oie ere 25, 000
505, 000

Authority was also given in the enactment to erect any building or
part of a building that might be necessary ; to be “ paid for pro rata out
of the sums appropriated to the several Departments, the United States
Commission of Food-Fishes, the Treasury and Post-Office Departments
excepted, the cost of the building not to exeeed one hundred and fifty
thousand dollars; said building to be sold at the close of the Exhibition
and the proceeds covered into the Treasury as miscellaneous receipts.”

Authority was given to the heads of the several Executive Depart-
ments to display at the Exhibition, under such conditions as they might
prescribe, all such articles in store or under the control of such Depart-
ments as might be necessary or desirable to render the collection com-
plete and exhaustive; but the board were forbidden to expend any larger
sum than was set down for each Department, or to enter into any con-
tract or engagement that should resultin any such increased expenditure.

The next question presented to the board for its consideration was
that of the space required by the several Departments, and whether it
would be necessary to erect a special building. Of course it was quite
impossible at so short notice to decide as to the space needed, and ap-
proximate estimates only could be presented. Indeed, in all cases it has
proved that the area originally decided upon was far below what has
since been found necessary, and almost daily demands for increased
accommodations are made by some branch or other of the Government.

In regard to the matter of accommodations, inquiry was first directed
to the Centennial authorities in Philadelphia as to whether a building
60 APPENDIX TO THE REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

would be erected by them for the Government board; or, if not, whether
space could be had in the main building. The board was informed, in
response, that it would be impossible to put up a special building, but
that space might be had in the general buildings of the Exhibition, pro-
vided the objects could be divided and classified according to the plan
adopted by the commission. This, however, would have involved the
separation of the various elements of the Government display and pre-
vented its exhibition as a whole, and it was finally concluded to erect a
building on ground assigned by the Centennial Commission, and in a
very excellent situation.

After discussing the various plans for buildings submitted to the
board, contracts were entered into for the erection of an edifice to cover
102,000 square feet of surface, and the work being put in hand, it has
been prosecuted so rapidly as to be now nearly completed. Of the
space in this building, 20,000 feet have been assigned to the Smithsonian
Institution and 6,000 feet to the United States Fish Commission.

Plan of exhibition proposed by the Smithsonian Institution.—After a
careful consideration of the subject, it was concluded that the most suit-
able exhibition on the part of the Smithsonian Institution should em-
brace, in the first place, the history, condition, functions, workings, and
general results of the Institution itself; in the second, a display of the
mineral and animal resources, as well as of the ethnology, of the United
States, the Agricultural Department proposing to include the various
subjects connected with the vegetable kingdom in its division. As the
Interior Department desired to make a very exhaustive exhibition of
everything relating to the Indian tribes of the United States, an arrange-
ment was made with the Indian Bureau by the Smithsonian Institution,
to join in a single display of the ethnology and archeology of the
United States, to be held in the space assigned to the Indian Depart-
ment and credited to the Indian Bureau. As the National Museum, in
charge of the Smithsonian Institution, already embraces very large col-
lections of this character, it was proposed to confine the action on the
part of the Indian Bureau to explorations, investigations, and collections
in those parts of the United States which were not already properly
represented. In this way any duplication would be avoided.

The display of the United States Fish Commission, although named as
a separate division in the bill appropriating funds for the purpose of
exhibition, naturally belongs to that of the Smithsonian Institution,
and was arranged to form a special division of “the fisheries” in the
scheme already referred to; so that finally five divisions were provided
for: first, the Smithsonian Institution; second, the mineral wealth of ,
the United States; third, the animal resources; fourth, the fisheries;
and, fifth, the ethnology of the country. :

Progress of the work.—I now proceed, in accordance with your instruc-
tions, to present some fuller details of the proposed exhibition, and an
account of what has been done in these several divisions.
CENTENNIAL EXHIBITION. 61
te

The display by the Smithsonian Institution of what pertains to its
own operations, apart from anything connected with the National
Museum, will consist of a series of tables illustrating some of its more
important branches, such as its system of international exchanges, its
publications, its explorations and researches, its twenty-five-year period
of meteorological observations, &e. This will include its series of
twenty quarto volumes of Smithsonian contributions to knowledge,
thirteen volumes of miscellaneous collections, and thirty volumes of an-
nual reports.

Mr. W. L. Nicholson, of the Post-Office Department, has been engaged
in constructing a large map of the United States, in twenty sheets, cov-
ering a space of sixteen by twelve feet, on a scale of 16 miles to the
inch. Upon one or more of these maps will be shown the temperatures,
the rain-fall, the barometric pressure, the winds, &c., of the United
States for the twenty-five years’ mean.

106

A display of the mineral resources of a country like the United States,
so varied in character, was necessarily a very laborious undertaking,
and the Institution was fortunate enough to secure the aid, as director
of this part of the exhibition, of Prof. William P. Blake, a gentleman
of much experience as a geologist, mining engineer, and mineralogist,
and one who, by his official connection with the Expositions at Paris
and Vienna, and as having had much to do with the original organiza-
tion of the Centennial Commission in Philadelphia, was able to render
very valuable service. He entercd upon his duties on the 1st of May,
1875, and commenced by organizing a general plan of exploration,
and establishing correspondence, preparing blank instructions, circulars,
&e. Of these the following were prepared and published: First, a gen-
eral circular, stating the proposed plan of the mineral exhibition, and
giving an invitation to contribute specimens; second, sketch of the
proposed character of the display to be made and its systematic arrange-
ment; third, a list of prominent gentlemen in different States from whom
aid might be expected, and whose co-operation was formally requested;
fourth, instructions for packing. collections for shipment; fifth, labels
for the specimens; sixth, labels of address for the boxes; seventh, blank
invoices for enumerating the contents of the boxes. Many thousands of
these were printed and circulated throughout the country with very
excellent results. Mr. Blake himself, after his preliminary work was
accomplished, visited many parts of the conntry in the interest of the
Institution, and especially the mining regions of Pennsylvania, New
Jersey, New York, Connecticut, Massachusetts, Ohio, Missouri, Michi-
gan, Wisconsin, and other States.

’t As far back as 1873 the Board of Finance of the Centennial Commission
62 APPENDIX TO THE REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

made an arrangement with Mr. Thomas Donaldson, one of the Centen-
nial commissioners of Idaho, to visit the principal mining regions west
of the Rocky Mountains, at its expense, for the purpose of collecting
illustrations of the resources of the country in gold, silver, and mercury.
Fortified by letters of credit from the commission, Mr. Donaldson pro-
ceeded on his mission,and was enabled to secure many valuable collec-
tions at litt'e or no cost; the proprietors of mines especially manifest-
ing a desire to be appropriately represented in the Exhibition and pre-
senting many specimens not only interesting in a scientific point of view,
but of much intrinsic value.

‘’ A concession, at the same time, was obtained by Mr. Donaldson from
the railroad companies between Philadelphia and San Francisco by
which they agreed to transport a given number of tons of these minerals
free of charge, and thus greatly to reduce the cost of the enterprise.

‘‘ After the organization of the Government board on Executive Depart-
ments, the Board of Finance came to the conclusion that it was not expe-
dient for the Centennial Commission to undertake a separate display of
minerals, and an arrangement was, therefore, made to turn over the
collections made by Mr. Donaldson to the Smithsonian Institution on
payment of the expenses incurred and its agreement to continue the en-
gagement with Mr. Donaldson to the end of the year 1875. This was
done to the satisfaction of all parties, so that since the 8th of May Mr.
Donaldson has been in the employ of the Institution, and the collections
made by him are in Philadelphia or on the way thither. !!

The State geologists of a number of the States have also co-operated in
the efforts toward a mineral exhibition, and also a large number of pro-
prietors of mining establishments and others who had it in their power
to render any aid.

The present prospect in regard to the mineral display is entirely sat-
isfactory. It is believed that no important interest in this direction will
be unrepresented, and that the general exhibition, to consist of ores and
their metals, with their slags and by-products, the crude and refined
metals, the building-stones, the clays, the marbles, the coals, slates, &c.,
will be quite a perfect picture of the industries as at present developed
throughout the United States. There will be alsoa series of the simple
applications of the different substances, such as the petroleum products,
the coal-tar products, specimens of terra-cotta, pottery, and porcelain as
illustrating the clays, some manufactured articles of the nietals, pol-
ished slabs of the marbles, &e.

Oare has been taken to obtain the various specimens in sufficient size
to make an imposing feature; the metals and coals, as far as possible,
having been selected in cubes of two feet each way ; the building-stones
are in cubes of twelve and six inches, the latter size having been adopted
for most of the ores also.

It is proposed to exhibit on the large Smithsonian map the geological
features of the country, as also the general distribution of the valuable
CENTENNIAL EXHIBITION. 63

minerals and the extent to which mines of the same have been opened
and prosecuted. Arrangements have been made for a display of the
choice minerals of the country, principally as a loan from several pri-
vate cabinets in Philadelphia and elsewhere.

II.

The display of the animal resources of the country will also be very
extensive and interesting, as embracing, in the first place, an exhibi-
tion of all the species capable of any economical application to the
wants of mankind, and, secondly, such forms as have special inter-
est to the naturalist. This will have three divisions: first, the repre-
sentations of the animals themselves, either living, stuffed, molded in
plaster, or photographed; secondly, the applications of these animals
in whole or in part; and, third, the apparatus by which they are pur-
sued, captured, and utilized. This division will naturally fall into the
primary classification of the mammals, the birds, the reptiles, the fishes,
and the invertebrates, land and marine.

Among the mammals, mounted in the best manner, and in their stages
of age, sex, and season, will be shown those of most importance as food,
such as the different species of deer, including the moose, elk, and cari-
boo, the musk-ox, the buffalo, &c. The fur-bearing species will be rep-
resented by the bears, grizzly, brown, black, white, &c.; the foxes,
black, cross, gray, kit, &c.; wolves, fur-seals, sea-lions, sables, minks,
&e. Those furnishing oil will be the whales, the porpoises, and other
cetaceans. The other species, furnishing leather, bone, &c., will also be
represented. :

The birds will include all the forms that are appreciated as being eat-
able and as supplying feathers, plumes, &c., for purposes of ornament
or domestic utility. The kinds specially beneficial or injurious to the
farmer will also be exhibited.

Among the reptiles will be included the edible frogs, terrapins, sea-
turtles, the alligator, as furnishing food, leather, oil, &e.

The fishes will be shown in very great variety, to include, for the most
part, plaster-casts, colored from nature, of the most important species.
Some specimens will be shown in alcohol, while others will be repre-
sented by photographs. Of the casts, including the cetaceans, over five
hundred are more or less complete, some of them fifteen feet long.

Among the objects of the fifth division will be the eatable mollusks,
such as the oyster in its different varieties, the clams, the eatable crabs,
lobsters, sponges, and many other forms, both land and aquatic.

The second series of the animal display will consist of a systematic
presentation of the applications of these animals, such as the different
preparations of food, whether as dried, smoked, salted, pickled, or
canned ; second, of the various applications of the teeth, bones, horn,
&c., for ornaments or other uses; third,of the preparations of fur,
64 APPENDIX TO THE REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

hides, leather, and the like; fourth, of the different varieties of oils;
fifth, miscellaneous applications.

Under the head of furs will be shown dressed skins of all the varieties
of fur-bearing animals of the United States, in their different grades, as
occurring in different seasons of the year and from different parts of the
country, as well as some simple applications of some of these furs to
articles of dress or ornament. In this series will also be included
dressed skins of birds and ornamental feathers.

The divisions of the bones and teeth will embrace the various forms
of carving, knife-handles, umbrella-handles, &c. In this division will
be included whalebone and its applications.

The ois will be exhibited in sufficient quantity for comparison, includ-
ing those of all the different species of whales, cetaceans, alligators,
crocodiles, the various fishes, &c.

The third series, that of apparatus, will represent the dress and
equipment of the hunter and fisherman, whether savage or civilized,
while pursuing their game, together with the different forms of boats,
sledges, snow-shoes, &¢., made use of for the same purpose. There will
also be the various arms and implements in the way of rifles, guns, pis-
tols for hunting, nets, traps of every kind, fire-jacks, &c., for the sports-
man and trapper, and for the fisherman fish-hooks, lines, floats, rods,
reels, nets, pounds, models of fishing-smacks of various kinds, &c.

IDE

The preparations for an exhibition illustrating the fisheries of the
United States have involved a great deal of labor, in consequence of the
want of experience in this country of displays of this character, so that
the general plan and classification had to be almost entirely improvised
asa whole. It is, however, to be hoped that the measures that have
been taken will result in showing the general nature and extent of our
interests in this direction. It is, of course, evident that the display of
animals of the country must have the inhabitants of the water as a
prominent feature, as also their application for food, oils, glues, &c.,
and they cannot well be separated.

The apparatus, however, by which they are followed, captured, and
applied to the purposes of life will represent satisfactorily this portion
of the programme. It is much more difficult to present attractive ex-
hibition of the fishes of the country than the mammals or birds, as they
are generally only shown as alcoholic specimens, which are always
more or less unsightly ; and, at any rate, only the smaller can be thus
preserved. On this account, the plan of a display of plaster-casts of the
actual fish, colored from nature, has been adopted. The work of making
these casts has been prosecuted with quite a large force of assistants
ever since the passage of th: appropriation, specimens in the best pro-
curable condition having been sent to Washington, mostly packed in ice,
where a colored sketch is at once taken of them. They are next photo-
CENTENNIAL EXHIBITION. 65

eraphed, and then a mold taken in plaster of Paris. The casts are
finally made either in papier-maché or plaster and colored from the
sketches referred to.

This work was also prosecuted during a four months’ residence at
Wood’s Hole, on Cape Cod.

The series of casts thus taken is very extensive, embracing nearly six
hundred specimens, illustrating the fisbes of the ocean, the lakes, and
the rivers of the United States, and including nearly all the species
known to the professional or the amateur fisherman. In this collection,
also, is embraced the seals, and the different species of cetaceans, such as
the porpoise, the black-fish, grampus, white whale, &c., the whole display
being, it is believed, far in advance of anythiug that has ever been at-
tempted heretofore.

It is also proposed to make an exhibition of such living species as
can conveniently be procured. This feature will probably be shown in
the agricultural building, under the charge of the agricultural branch
of the United States Centennial Commission, and [ propose to render
whatever assistance lies in my power 1. supplying the specimens.

Another interesting feature of this division will be the exhibition of
the fish themselves in a fresh state in a refrigerator, covered with a
glass top, and under the special direction of Mr. KE. G. Blacktord, a well-
known fish-dealer in New York. This gentleman bas undertaken not
only to put up the refrigerator, but to keep it stocked every day with
various fishes from all portions of the United States. He will arrange
with some of the restaurants on the grounds to take the fish at the
close of the day and to serve them up to those calling for them.

The second division, that of the applications of the fish, will consist, in
the first place, of food-preparations, whether smoked, dried, salted,
pickled, canned, or otherwise treated. Next will come the glues, gela-
tines, sizings, &c.: then the economical or ornamental applications of
the scales; and, finally, the oils and the guanos and miscellaneous uses.
In this same exhibition will be included the vegetable and mineral
products of the sea, such as the infusorial earths, greensand, the various
alge, &c., the latter with their application as manures, and also in the
manufacture of soda, iodine, and other substances.

The third division of this subject will consist of as complete a series
as possible of the apparatus used in connection with the fisheries, and
will embrace models or full-size specimens of the various ships, steam-
ers, smacks, boats, canoes, smoke and curing- houses, uets, traps, pounds,
rods, reels, hooks, lines, artificial baits, &c., and a variety of other arti-
cles too numerous to mention. A promivent idea will be the exhibition,
either separately or in collective divisions, of whatever illustrates the
different classes of the fisheries. Taking the whale-fishery as an illus-
tration, there will be shown skeletons of several species of whale,
together with the whalebone, oceupying its natural position in the
mouth. Wooden models of the large whales, and plaster-casts of the

S. Mis. 115 5)

66 APPENDIX TO THE REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

smaller ones, will also be exhibited... The different kinds of oil, sper-
maceti, ambergris, sperm-whales’ teeth, &c.,will be presented, with their
application, such as the purified oils and candles; the different uses of
the whalebone, for domestic, surgical, or other purposes; the sperm-
whale’s teeth, as carved into various articles of ornament or utility; the
sperm-whale’s jaw-bone, as used for knife-handles aud other purposes,
&e. There will also be models of whale-ships of different varieties,
everything being made to a scale; a full-sized whale-boat, with all its
equipments of harpoons, bomb-lances, spades, lances, lines, tubs, &c.,
together with small models of the same, and several groups, representing
scenes connected with the whale-fishery, as well as several separate
drawings made expressly for this exhibition.

The menhaden-fishery will be exhibited also by figures, photographs,
and casts of fish themselves, and by a working-model of the factory in
which the fish are steamed and pressed for their oil and scrap, and a
model of the Wood’s Hole factory, where this menhaden scrap or refuse
is converted into an important fertilizer; a model of the establishment
where first they are scaled and prepared as sardines; as also the dif-
ferent kinds of nets used, with a model of the kind of steamer by which
these fish are pursued. The different preparation of the fish will also be
shown.

The oyster industry will be also represented by all the varieties of
oysters known on both coasts of the United States, with their trade or
local name, with specimens of the animals that prey upon them. This
will also embrace specimens of the eastern oyster transported to the
western coast as undergoing certain known modifications. The various
oyster sloops, rakes, and other devices, will also be shown.

The other fisheries illustrated will be those of the cod, the mackerel,
the herring, shad, salmon, the sponge, coral, We.

The fourth division of the fisheries will be the illustrations of pisci-
culture or artificial propagation. Here will be shown the models of the
United States establishments for securing and hatching the eggs of the
salmon and shad; illustrations of the various boxes, spawning-races,
&e., and the fish-ways or fish-ladders, all in full-size representations, or
in models.

The actual process of hatching out the eggs of fish and rearing the
young will also be exhibited, in connection with the Agricultural Bureau
division of the centennial display. It is expected that for a consider-
able part of the time of the exhibition the eggs of the California salmon
can be secured, this being a species well suited to illustrate the changes
undergone in actual incubation, the egg being as large as a common
currant, and permitting the various stages of development to be readily
observed.

In connection with this exhibition of the fisheries, steps have been
taken toward securing complete reports of the past and present history
of many of our important industries. Among them that of the whale-
CENTENNIAL EXHIBITION. 67

fishery, the menhaden, the mackerel, &c. The report on the whule-
fishery will include a list of all the vessels, as far as practicable, that
have ever been fitted out from the several whaling ports of the United
States, together with the yield of oil, bone, and sperm for each year,
and their respective prices.

The menhaden report will contain similar data for that fish, together
with an exhaustive account of the yield in 1874 and 1875. Steps have
also been taken to obtain a list of all the vessels used in these fisheries,
arranged as to their tonnage, names of owners, captains, and the nature
of the service performed by them.

We

The fifth division of the exhibition of the National Museum is
intended to illustrate the past and present condition of the native tribes
of the United States, or its anthropology, and in view of the very great
interest in subjects of this character, it was determined to make <¢
special effort to render the display exhaustive and complete. As, how-
ever, the Indian Bureau of the Interior Department contemplated a
somewhat similar exhibition, it was thought best to unite the two, and
to conduct the efforts of each upon a systematic plan, and so as to avoid
duplication. This was specially proper, as any collections made by the
Indian Bureau would, under the law of Congress, be turned over to the
Smithsonian Institution for safe-keeping, as soon as their temporary
functions had been fulfilled.

For the better presentation of the subject to collectors and corre-
spondents, Prof. O. T. Mason, of Columbian University, was requested
by you to draw up a systematic schedule of the various articles of
clothing, ornaments, household utensils, implements of agriculture,
weapons of war and the chase, tools of trade, the apparatus used for
the pursuit and capture of game, &c., and a pamphlet was accordingly
prepared by this gentleman, embracing over six hundred subjects.
Copies of this pamphlet were then sent by the Indian Burean to all its
agents, and by the Smithsonian Institution to its correspondents, with
the request that they would indicate by a mark on the list the articles
that could be obtained, and return them to Washington. This was done
to a considerable extent, and authority was given in many cases to
proceed in making the collection. Several gentlemen of much experi-
ence in ethnological researches were also employed by the Bureau to
secure complete collections from the tribes within their reach. Among
those appointed for this purpose were Mr. James G. Swan, for the
Alaska and Puget Sound tribes; Maj. J. W. Powell, for those of Utah
and Wyoming; and Mr. Stephen Powers, for those of Nevada and Cali-
fornia, allof whom have been diligently occupied in carrying out their
instructions.

tesearches in the department of archeology proper, or the ancient
implements of stone, metal, and earthenware, were also prosecuted on
68 APPENDIX TO THE REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

a large seale, especially on the south coast of California, where, within
the historical period, the tribes were numerous and intelligent. These,
however, have long since been exterminated, and their history is only
to be read from the articles buried in their graves.

For the purpose of properly working this field, arrangements were
made jointly by the Smithsonian Institution and the Indian Bureau
with Mr. Paul Schumacher to proceed with a party and prosecute his
explorations. The Treasury Department authorized the trausportation
of the party to the islands on a revenue-cutter, and the War Department
furnished rations at cost price, as well as tents, &c., while the United
States Coast Survey extended the courtesy of one of its surveying-
vessels, under Captain Taylor. With these facilities, Mr. Schumacher
gathered a large number of articles, some tons in weight, and repre-
senting a great variety of very choice specimens, such as stone mortars,
pestles, ornaments of stone, shell, bone, &e.

Simultaneously with this labor of Mr. Schumacher, Lieutenant
Wheeler, of the Engineer Bureau, had a party in the vicinity of Santa
Barbara, in charge of Dr. H. C. Yarrow, which also made important col-
lections.. In the same field and with satisfactory results, Rev. Stephen
Bowers has also been oceupied in behalf of the Centennial display.

Understanding that there were numerous remains of a similar charae-
ter in Oregon, Mr. Schumacher, with a small party, proceeded there in
September last, and obtained some articles of interest.

The many correspondents of the Smithsonian Institution were also in-
vited, by means of a circular, to make contributions to the same depart-
ment. The returns have already been very great, amounting to many
thousands of stone implements of every kind and character.

In some instances gentlemen who were not willing to present their
collections permanently, have consented to lend them for the Exhibition,
and these will be carefully kept separate and returned at its close.

The labors of Mr. Swan, like those of Mr. Schumacher, were greatly
facilitated by the action of the Treasury Department in placing the
revenue-cutter Oliver Wolcott at his disposal, by means of which he
vas enabled to visit many Indian tribes on Puget Sound and elsewhere,
otherwise inaccessible.

In addition to what bas already been acknowledged, the War Depart-
ment has also rendered much assistance by instructing quartermasters
to receive and forward packages delivered to them for the purpose of
the Centennial display. The amount of material thus obtained from
all sources has been very great, and is continually increasing, so that
there is little question that, so far as inanimate objects are concerned,
scarcely anything will be wanting in the elements of a satisfactory ex-
position. This will contain several hundred lay figures, of life size,
properly dressed, with the clothing and ornaments of their own tribe,
illustrating their various grades of rank as well as ages and sex, as also
models or actual representations of their dwellings, their boats, snow-
CENTENNIAL EXHIBITION. 69

shoes, horses and dogs, and their trappings, implements of hunting and
fishing, agricultural tools, and indeed everything else that can be
thought of.

Among the more conspicuous objects already collected by Mr. Swan
are a Haidah canoe, 60 feet long, 8 feet wide, and 4 feet high, cut from
a single log of cedar, profusely ornamented with carvings and paintings
in the manner of the natives, with several other canoes 30 feet long ;
also several carved posts, 60 feet high, such as are set in front of the
dwellings of the Haidah chiefs; materials for a complete dwelling, 100
feet long by 20 wide, aud many other things not necessary to enumerate.

The selection of ethnological objects for exhibition at the Centennial
has been intrusted to Dr. Charles Rau, one of the most eminent of
American ethnologists, who is preparing an elaborate report upon the
subject, with numerous illustrations, which will shortly be printed.

One feature which promised to be of very great interest, but which
the reduction of the estimates for the Government display rendered im-
practicable, was that of an exhibition of living representatives of the
principal Indian tribes, each series to embrace from four to eight per-
sous, of different sexes and ages, to be brought to Philadelphia with
their native clothing, implements, utensils, apparatus, and dwellings;
the whole to be grouped on a reservation of the Centennial grounds,
where they could carry on their various occupations, including the
practice of their aboriginal arts; the Navajoes to show their methods
of weaving blankets and belts; the Pueblos, their manufacture of pot-
tery; the Piutes, the construction of their stone implements; other
tribes their basket-work; the Blackfeet their method of dressing buffalo
and other skins, &e. The plan embraced the presentation of some
twenty or more tribes, trom the Esquimaux of Northwestern Alaska
to the Seminole, and from the Passamaquoddy Indians of Maine to
those of San Diego, California. The expense of such an enterprise
would, of course, be very great, involving not only the transportation of
the Indians and an agent and interpreter to and from Philadelphia,
but also their subsistence during the exhibition. There is reason, how-
ever, to believe that no feature on that occasion would be more inter-
esting to our own people and to foreign visitors than the one referred
to; and it is to be hoped that authority may be granted by Congress,
in season for the purpose. In anticipation of such action the Indian
agents have been instructed to make their selections of families and be
in readiness to act when notified by telegraph or otherwise.

I have thus presented a sketch of the displays that are considered
desirable for the Smithsonian Institution and the United States Fish
Commission to make in the International Exbibition, although, to carry
it out to its utmost completeness, so as to be a credit to the nation,
vill require the appropriation by Congress of the remainder of the sum
originally estimated as necessary for the purpose. A work of such
magnitude, of course requires the employment of a great many persons,
70 APPENDIX TO THE REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

as well as much expense for the acquisition of objects and their prepa-
ration for exhibition.

A large force of taxidermists is at present engaged at the Smithsonian
Institution in doing the necessary work, and sufficient progress has
been made to warrant the belief that with sufficient means everything
will be completed in time for the opening of the Exhibition. The cost
of putting these articles in attractive cases will, however, be very con-
siderable, and must be provided for.

An important consideration in connection with these displays is the
fact that their service will not be limited to the period of the Centennial
year; but,as the material all belongs to the Government and to the
National Museum, it will all be brought back to Washington, where,
with proper facilities to be furnished by Congress, it will be displayed
to interested visitors, it is to be hoped for centuries to come.

So far as the ethnological display is concerned it is quite rea-
sonable to infer that’ by the expiration of a second hundred-
year period of the life of the American republic, the Indians will
have entirely ceased to present any distinctive characters, and will be
merged in the general population. It is more than probable that the
ethnological collection now being made by the Government will be the
only exposition of the past; and with each succeeding year these speci-
mens will become more valuable and more highly appreciated.

The permanent exhibition, too, so complete and exhaustive, of the
mineral wealth of the country will also be a matter of great importance.
It is proposed to arrange these collections by States, and even by min-
ing districts, and as new mines are opened to have them properly
exhibited in their series. Nowhere else than in Washington could such
a collection be brought together, and nowhere else would it be of so
ereat service in furnishing the means for a proper appreciation of the
mineral wealth of the Territories and of the different States. The same
reasoning, of course, applies to the other departments of the animal re-
sources of the United States, and of the fisheries; and the whole, when
combined, may be made to constitute a perpetual exhibition of the
resources of the country, as derived from the animal and mineral king-
doms, as well as from its ethnology.

In this connection it must not be forgotten that the expense of pre-
paring the special anthropological collection for the Centennial has been
borne almost entirely by the Indian Bureau, from its portion of the
Centennial {und given by Congress to the Interior Department. The
direction, however, of the work has been intrusted by the Commissioner
of Indian Affairs to the Smithsonian Institution, as the collections made
will, under the law of Congress, become ultimately a portion of the
National Museum under its charge.

It will, however, be readily understood that the Smithsonian Build-
ing will be entirely inadequate to accommodate this collection on its
return from Philadelphia, especially as even now it is overcrowded and
CENTENNIAL EXHIBITION. 71

packed from top to bottom with thousands of boxes, for the proper
exhibition of the contents of which there is no space or opportunity at
the present time. It is to be hoped that action at an early day will be
taken by Congress looking toward a proper provision for this emergency,
especially when it is realized that the materials are thus available for a
National Museum that shall be equal, in its extent and completeness and
in its educational advantages, to that of any nation in the world.

The collections made directly through the Government appropriations
will also be very largely supplemented by the donation of series of
American and foreign exhibitors, a very large proportion of which will
be placed at the disposal of the United States Government.

Another subject which will require early consideration will be the
best mode of distributing the duplicate specimens, of which vast num-
bers will be on hand at the close of the Exhibition, and it is probable
that an appropriation by Congress will be needed for the arrangement,
labeling, packing, and boxing of these specimens. Several hundred
sets of these objects can be made up for the principal educational, liter-
ary, and scientific institutions throughout the country.

It may be remembered that several years ago Congress appropriated
$10,000 for the expenses of distributing the duplicates then in the
National Museum, with the proviso that the freight be paid by the
recipients. Under this enactment nearly a quarter of a million of
labeled specimens were supplied to several hundred institutions through-
out the country, and have doubtless answered an excellent purpose in
furnishing the means of instruction. The surplus available for such a
distribution at the close of the International Exhibition, even after all
exchanges have been made, will be very much greater than on the
occasion referred to.

Respectfully, yours,
SPENCER F. BAIRD,
Representative of the Smithsonian Institution
and of the Department of Food-Fishes in
Government Centennial Board,
Prof. JOSEPH HENRY,
Secretary Smithsonian Institution.
72 ADDITIONS TO THE COLLECTIONS.

Table showing the number of entries in the record-books of the United
States National Museum at the close of the years 1874 and 1875, respect-
ively.

Class. 1874. 1875.

Mam moal’S\.253.25 eles Faas nce eosin es ars cen saa omen tae epsinere ae 12, 294 12, 462
Birds. SAS ee SAA OE SAME See 68, 361 70, 378
Reptilesrandtamp lib Tans see es ee sees alee a eteeelee = 8, 293 8, 410
Bi sWesy poz see eee ene foes ee oon eect aioe is aay store els ene 13, 808 16, 649
Skeletonsvandislkulisty ssa. 4. Fs S2e cect asco co coieetee 14, 408 15, 363
UD oe Come raeidG Gace SAA L CSO BO Benes GUDSOU EE eahE50. sue 17, 062 17, 249
@rustaceans!s--4.. ee =< Pe SIO elearish, eae an 2, 204 2,210
ANIUENG)S Sige SSS Besa aq DOR SROA SEA ees ero rotobo costes sceses 100 100
WINES A= ber BeOS See EO RacIORE BEC Ope ceemae screamo hase. sete 25, 757 26, 757
THEMES 4 Dokeee ea Scobansoc cocucaruaace hoposo noo seo ene oor 3, 142 3, 148
invertebratertossileasspeseeee ao seet ees sn sae eeee aeia eee 7, 727 7, 905
Mimerals: 2sa2 cc os co sceins S aay Nacisere s Sacre eee ae seine selaeae Sk leis! 9, 394
Buhnolomcal’specimens sass sta =a soe aae anaes ee eee haa 16, 415 20, 000
Naditor centennial volumes 24751—25052 2 se ee sie Sea em eos eee 302

RO Paso ayn ware ochttne tials wis Seis tee epee Saree eee 197, 749 210, 327

Increase for 1875 -.----. ~~ ~~ ~~ nooo e ee nwie a ons oo = |e wn w= 12, 578

ADDITIONS TO THE COLLECTIONS OF THE SMITHSONIAN
INSTITUTION (UNITED STATES NATIONAL MUSEUM) IN
1875.

Abbott, Dr. OC. OC. Cast of prehistoric mask ; box and package of arrow-
poiuts from New Jersey.

Abert, General J. T. Skin of albino cedar-bird, (Ampelis cedrorum.)

Adam, Joseph S. Specimens of marble from Canaan, Conn.

Adams, George Rk. Three skins of fur-seal (Callorhinus ursinus) and
skin of aretic fox (Vulpes lagopus) from Saint George’s Island, Pry-
bilov group, Alaska.

Aiken, Charles EB. Skin of Abert’s squirrel, (Sciurus Abertii ;) eggs of
rufous owl, (Scops jflammeola,) Woodhouse’s jay, (Cyanocitta Wood-
housii,) blue partridge, (Callipepla squamata ;) skins of Rocky Mount-
ain sheep, (Ovis montana ;) 5 skins of mountain-buflalo, (Dison amert-
canus ;) and specimens, in flesh, of coyote, (Canis latrans,) 2 lynxes,
(Lynx rufus,) and jack-rabbit, (Lepus callotis,) from Colorado.

Akhurst, John. Stone pestle from Croton Lake, N. Y.

Alaska Commercial Company, San Francisco, Cal. Nine mummies from
Kagemil group, Aleutian Islands, Alaska, and one from Prince Wil-
liam’s Sound; 20 skins of fur-seal, (Callorhinus ursinus,) from Alaska,
5 of sea-lion, (Humetopias stelleri,) and many other objects.
ADDITIONS TO THE COLLECTIONS. ie

Aldrich, Charles. Specimens of wood cut by stone ax, from Colorado;
clay pipe from San Juan River, N. Mex.

Ambler, R. C. Specimens of minerals from West Virginia.

American Sardine Company, New York City. One dozen boxes of
‘American sardines,” (Brevoortia menhaden,) preserved in oil.

American Whip Company, Westfield, Mass. Collection illustrating man-
ufacture of whips from whalebone.

Ames, James T. Barrel and box of emery specimens from Chester, Mass.

Anderson, William. Arrow-heads, polished stones, &c., from Roseville,
Ohio.

Anderson, W. F. Specimens of galusite from Virginia City, Nev. *

Angel, Dr. Manuel Uribé y, and Luis Johnson. Earthenware from Indian
graves in Manizalez, Colombia, S. A.

Aquarial Gardens, Boston, Mass., (W.E. Baker.) Two specimens, in flesh,
of common seal, (Phoca vitulina.)

Arny, General W. F. M. Specimens of implements and clothing of
Navajo and Apache Indians of Arizona; insects from Bonito Canon,
Arizona.

Babeock, Dr. W. H. Alligator eggs and oil from Central Florida.

Bagot, Samuel O. Specimens of rock from St. Michael’s Cave, Mediter-
ranean.

Bailey, W. B. F. Specimens of stone implements and quartz; 1 box
ethnological specimens from Griffin, Ga.

Baird, G. W., Passed Assistant Engineer, U. 8S. N. Wooden image rep-
resenting a “ frog-tamer,” made by Indians of Sitka, Alaska.

Baird, Prof. 8S. F. Sioux clay pipe. See under Washington, D. C.

Baker, W. E. See under Boston, Aquarial Gardens.

Ballou, W. H, Small stone implement from Niagara River, N. Y.

Baltimore, J. D. Unterspinous process of fish,

Banks, Montague. Specimen of hell-bender (Necturus lateralis) from
Manitoba.

Barker, W. P. Specimen of giant beetle (Dynastes hercules) from Ala-
bama.

Barnes, G. W. Specimens of jumping seeds from San Diego, Cal.

Barnum, Hon, P. T. Skeletons of eland, (Oreas camma,) giraffe, (Giraffa
camelopardalis,) sea-lion, (Zalophus Gillespii,) and specimens, in flesh,
of ostrich, (Struthio camelus,) Malayan tapir, (Rhinocherus suma-
tranus,) and manatee, (Trichechus manatus ;) 2 black-neck swans,
(Cygnus nigricollis.)

Bartlett, Dr. EB. H. Living specimens of golden eagle (Aquila
chrysaétos) from Maryland.

Batty, Joseph H. Skins of rabbit, (Lepus americanus,) weasels, (Putorius
vison, noveboracensis, and longicauda,) and squirrel, (Scturus hudsonius,)
and skeletons.

Bauermeister, ev. W. G. C. Minerals from Indiana.
(4 ADDITIONS TO THE COLLECTIONS.

Bausett, S. P. Specimens of herring (Clupea harengus) and of sardines
from lower St. Lawrence, Canada.

Bean, T. H. Specimen of lesser red-poll (d4giothus linaria) from Vir-
ginia; collection of fresh-water fishes; twenty-five bird-skins and
squirrel (Sciurus hudsonius) from Pennsylvania ; skeleton of cow (Bos
taurus) from Virginia; stone dish from Pennsylvania; ovaries and
spermaries of black bass, (Micropterus salmoides,) and kettle from Indian
grave in Pennsylvania.

Bechler, G. R. Skull of boar (Sus scrofa) from Colorado.

Bendire, Capt. Charles, U.S. Army. Eggs of double-crested cormorant,
(Graculus dilophus ;)skins of gray-crowned finch, (Leucosticte littoralis ;)
Bobemian waxwing (Ampelis garrulus) trom Oregon.

Bernary, Dr. F. F. Polished stone from Missouri.

Berthoud, EH. L. Box of ethnological specimens; two boxes minerals
from Colorado.

Berthoud, W. B. Specimen of giant beetle (Dynastes hercules) from
Louisiana.

Blackford, Eugene G. Specimens of red snapper, (Lutjanus aya ;) barra-
cuda, (Sphyrena piceda ;) toothed berring, (Dorosoma cepedianum ;) had-
dock, (Melanogrammus eglefinus ;) head of salmon, (Salmo quinnat ;)
crabs and lobsters ; snapper. (Wpinephelus ;) albino haddock, (Melano-
grammus ceglefinus ;) Spanish mackerel, (Cybium maculatum 3) pom-
panos, (Lrachynotus carolinus ;) terrapin, (Ptychemys decussata,) and
young, one year old; three turtles, (Chelonia mydas ;) grenadier, (Ma-
crurus rupestris ;) leather-back turtle, (Sphargis coriacea ;) loggerhead-
turtle, (Thalassochelys caunna ;) sturgeon, (Acipenser ;) long-tailed file-
fish, (Alutera cuspicauda ;) spiny box fish, (Chilomycterus geometricus ;)
sheep’s-head, (Archosargus probatocephalus ;) kiug-fish, (Menticirrus
nebulosus ;) big-eyed herring, (Hlops saurus ;) cobia, (lacate canadus ;)
horse-fish, (Vomer setipinnis;) cero, (Cybium caballa;) dolphin,
(Coryphona seueri ;) mud-fish, (Amiacalva ;) drum, (Pogonias chromis ;)
sturgeon, (Acipenser ;) flasher, (Lobotes surinamensis ;) mullet, (Mugil
lineatus ;) carangids; silver gar, (Belone longirostris;) goose-fish,
(Lophius americanus ;) sole, (Achirus lineatus ;) eel, (Anguilla bos
toniensis ;) egg-capsules of periwinkle, (Sycotypus ;) pike, (Lsox ;) com-
mon flat-fish, (Pseudopleuronectes americanus ;) moon-eye, (dyodon
tergisus ;) shiner, (Stilbe americana ;) whitefish, (Coregonus sp.;) large
mouth black bass, (Micropterus nigricans ;) catfish, (Noturus flavus ;)
toad-fish, (Batrachus tau ;) sucker, (Catostomus sp.;) yellow perch,
(Perca flavescens ;) cusk, (Brosmius americanus ;) white perch, (Morone
americanus ;) rock-fish, (Roecus lineatus ;) brook-trout, (Salmo
JSontinalis ;) sea-robin, (Prionotus evolans ;) bluefish, (Pomatomus salta-
trix ;) salmon, (Salmo salar ;) fresh-water cusk, (Lota maculosa,) from
Fulton Market, N. Y.

Blake, Prof. W. P. Eleven boxes of minerals from various localities.

Boardman, George A. Four eggs of ring-neck duck (Fulix collaris) from
Milltown, Me.
~l

ADDITIONS TO THE COLLECTIONS.

Boehmer, George H. Quartz-erystals from Maryland.

Booth, G. W. Specimens of minerals from Talladega County, Ala.

Boston, Mass., Aquarial Gardens, (W. E. Baker.) Two specimens, in
flesh, of common seal, (Phoca vitulina.)

Bourse, C. J., jr. Collection illustrating mineral resources of Columbia,
Lancaster County, Pa., and Carroll County, Md.

Bowman, Peter. Arrow-heads from Savannah, Ohio.

Bowman, S.C. One box of bird-skins; two boxes of mounted birds
from Illinois.

Boyd, C. R. Collection illustrating mineral resources of Wythe County,
Va.

Boyd, Dr. Specimen of pike-perch (Stizostedium americanum) from
Tennessee.

Brackett, Lieut. Col. A. G. Specimensof gray-crowned finch, (Leucosticte
tephrocotis var. littoralis ;) skins of porcupine, (Hrethizon dorsatus) and
woodchuck, (Aretomys monax ;) ferrugineous buzzard, (Archibuteo
Serrugineus ;) sparrow-hawk, (Tinnunculus sparverius ;) hawk, (Buteo)
bittern, (Botuurus ;) sandpiper, (Tringa ;) long-billed curlew, (Nuw-
menus longirostris ;) spermophiles, (Spermophilus tridecemlineatus and
S. richardsonii var. elegans ;) elk, (Cervus canadensis) in flesh, from
Fort Saunders.

Bradley, Prof. F. H. Collection illustrating mineral resources of East
Tennessee, North Carolina, and Georgia.

Brand, C. C. Whaling-gun and bomb-lances.

Bransford, Dr. J. T., U. 8. N. Alcoholic fishes, shells, and minerals
from Isthmus of Panama.

Breck, Prof. Robert LZ. Cast of prehistoric medallion found near Rich-
mond, Ky.

Briggs, Ulysses. Oriole’s nest made of flax from Iowa.

Broadhead, Prof. G. C. Collection illustrating mineral resources of Mis-
souri and western part of Illinois.

Brown, H. Felt from bottom of U.S. gunboat “Isaac P. Smith,” sunk
during the rebellion in Charleston Harbor.

Brown, Dr. J. J. Specimens of shells from Gulf Stream.

Bryan, O. N. Specimens of fishes from Akocheek, St. Georges County,
Md.

Bryan, R. B. Specimen of meteorite from Mound City, Kans.

Bryant and Warker. Specimens of shells from Detroit, Mich.

' Buck, Stuart M. Specimens of coal from Coalburgh, W. Va.

Burchard, Miss Sophia. Specimens of birds (Falco tinnunculus, Cuculus
canorus, Turdus torquatus, Coccothraustes vulgaris, Saxicola cenanthe,
Pratincolaruberta, Fringilla montifringilla, Emberiza schneniclus, Parus
cristatus, Phyllopneuste trochilus, Sternus vulgaris, Rallus aquaticus,
Rallus porzana) and fishes and insects from Rostock, Germany.

Byrne, Surgeon G. C., U. S. N. Indian pestle from Willet’s Point,
New York Harbor.
76 ADDITIONS TO THE COLLECTIONS.

Calkins, W. W. Box of fresh-water and land shells from Chicago, Ill.

Calvin, William. Two boxes of shells from Cincinnati, Ohio.

Canfield & Co. Specimens of quartz-crystals.

Capron, General Horace. Lay figures of Japanese farmer and his wile.
Sereens with colored drawings of Japanese fishes,

Carley, B. J. M. Specimens of oysters, clams, and razor-clams from
numerous localities in the vicinity of New York, illustrating the New
York oyster-trade.

Jarlisle, Amos M. Specimens of galena from Tallahassee.

Carpenter, R. C. Specimens of British birds’ eggs.

Carpenter, Lieut. W. L., U. 8S. A. Specimens of birds’ eggs; inverte-
brate fossils ; box of zoological collections; teeth of Brontotherium ;
insects ; invertebrate fossils.

Casey, J. Stone hatchet, hammer, sinker, pestles, picks, &c., from Penn-
sylvania. 5

Central Virginia Manufacturing Company. Copper-ores from the vicinity
of Tolersville.

Chace, William. Three stone axes, three stone chisels, and one quartz
arrow-head from South Carolina.

Chapman, George W. Two specimens of septaria; fragment of an aero-
lite from Waconda, Kans.

Chase, A. W. Two boxes of ethnologica, one box of birds, and one box
of fossils from California. (Deposited.)

Chester, Capt. H. C. Wooden anchor used on coast of Connecticut ;
model of Noank sharpey.

Chicago, Ill., Academy of Sciences of. One box of fish-skins.

Chiraz, Mirza Mohammed Aly Persan. Persian coins from Poul.

Christchurch, New Zealand, Canterbury; Museum of. A collection of moa
bones from New Zealand.

Christiania, Norway; Royal University of Norway. Mounted reindeer;
model of Laplander and sledges; mosses and lichens; carved-wood
articles of Norwegian industry; medals of Norway ; stone paper-
weights; diadem made from fish scales aud eyes; aud basket from
boiled roots of pine-tree.

Clark, George. One keg of salted whitefish (Coregonus albus) from
Michigan.

Clark, J. H. Hight boxes and one bale of fossils and ethnologica of
New England; implements carved from whale’s teeth, (Physeter macro-
cephalus.)

Clark, Wilson H. Minerals from Connecticut for examination.

Clark, Dr. W. M. Three boxes of human bones, carved figures, (idols?)
mound-pipes, earthen vessels, shell-beads, gorgets, chisels, sinkers,
chumkee-stone, &c., from Tennessee.

Clark, William S. Rubbing-stone and arrow-peints from Lowa.

Clendennin, Frank. Three Arapaho scalps,

Collett, Prof. Robert. A collection of marine fishes from Norway.
ADDITIONS TO THE COLLECTIONS. U7

Cox, Prof. HE. T. Specimens of Lake Tippecanoe sisco (Argyrosomus
sisco) from Indiana.

Cox, John FF. Specimens of gypsum from Little Rock, Ark.

Crittenden, A. Rk. Thimble made from jaw-bone of sperm-whale, (Physe-
ter macrocephalus.)

Crufts, W. H. Skin of snake from California.

Curley, Rev. James. Wskimo bows, arrows, harpoons, and fishing-lines
from Alaska.

Currier, George H. Mounted badger (Taxidea americana) from Wiscon-
sin.

Currier, J. M.  Ethnological specimens, quartzite, bones of various ani-
mals, and earth from Indian camping-ground near Bristol, Vt.

Cushing, Frank H. Unplements from Indian grave, bone-perforators,
arrow-heads, &c., from Northern New York.

Dabney, William C., M.D. Carved stone bead from Monticello.

Dall, Rev. C. H. Eleven terra-cotta figures, Parsee hat, and sacred
Brahminical thread from Calcutta, India.

Dall, William H., U.S. Coast Survey. Two sea-lion teeth from Pacific
ocean; cones of fir, (Abies sp.) 300 species exotic, 75 species east
coast, and 25 species fossil mollusea.

Davis, O. W., jr. Specimens of graphite, limonite, cinder, pig-iron, &e.,
from Katahdin Tron-Works, Me.

Dawson, Dr.J.W. Teun species of arctic shells and Post-Pliocene fossils.

De Frece, A. B. Box of articles manufactured from American pearl-
bearing shells.

Delano, George, G Co., New Bedford, Mass. Samples of whale-oils and
sperm-candles:

Derry, Charles W. Skin of pine-grosbeak (Pinicola enucleator) from
Colorado.

Dexter, Mr. Specimen of spear-fish sucker (Rhombochirus osteochir)
from Vineyard Haven, Mass.

Dick, Dr. F. N. Skin and skull of black-footed ferret (Putorius nigripes)
from Nebraska.

Dickeson, M. W. Two * security-medals.”

Dillingham, Joseph R., and Sumner J. Plumner. Specimen of land-locked
salmon (Salmo sebago) from Maine.

Dodge, kh. F., Boston, Mass. ‘Series of oars and paddles.

Douglas, Thomas and William G. Collection illustrating mineral re-
sources of Virginia,

Dozier, Dr. G. Rk. Gsseous growth from jaw of mule.

Dunedin, New Zealand, Otago Museum, (Capt. F. W. Hutton.) Two
boxes of fossil bones and birds.

Eaton, D. H. Box of Indian implements from Peotone.

Edes, Lieut. B. Long. Seeds of camelia (Camelia japonica) from Japan,

Edwards, Daniel. ‘Two specimens of bay lynx (Lynx rufus) from Altle-
gany County, N. Y.
78 ADDITIONS TO THE COLLECTIONS.

Edwards, Vinal N. See under Washington, U. S. Commission Fish and
Fisheries.

Edwards, William H. Specimens of cannel-coal from Coalburgh, W.
Va.

Elliott, Henry W. Phonolithiec rock with spinel, and Mytilide from
Saint George’s Island, Alaska.

Evans, W. W. Birds and Indian antiquities of Peru, &c.

Ferguson, Maj. T. B., Maryland Commissioner of Fisheries. Young
black bass, (Micropterus salmoides,) specimens of golden carp, (Cyprinus
carpio,) and tench, ( Tinca vulgaris;) three crates for packing fish-eggs ;
models of oyster-boats used on Chesapeake Bay.

Finck, Dr. Hugo. Collection of pestles, mortars, mullers, carved stone
heads of animals, stone images, (very ancient,) stone balls, obsidian
cores, flakes, spear and arrow heads, pottery, spindle-whorls, handles
to pottery vessels, &c., from near Cordova, Mexico.

Fitch, F. A. Specimens of coral, insects, and spear-heads from Ran-
dolph, N. Y.

Fithian, Dr. W. Stone ax from Kentucky.

Flint, Dr. Earl. Two cases containing stone idols, mortars, chisels,
pottery, earthen vases of different kinds, and stone implements from
Nicaragua.

Flynt, W. N., & Co., Monson, Mass. Specimens of granite, in the form of
cubes, from Monson, Mass.

Foote, George B. Specimens of mineral from Montana.

Fouch, F. W. Specimens of fossil teeth, shells, bones, &e., from Badito,
Colo. }

Fowler, W. H. Living otter (Lutra canadensis) from Maryland.

Fox, W. H. Skin of pine-creeping warbler (Dendroica pinus) from New
Hampshire.

Friel, Joseph. Stone and iron axes from Cloverport, Ky.

Fryer, C. G. Six boxes Cornish sardines.

Fuller, C. B., Curator of Portland Society Natural History. Box of
shells from Portland, Me.

Gabb, Prof. William M., Director of Talamanca Expedition. Specimens
of stone chisels, lancets, ancient pottery, pots, dishes, images of ani-
mals, dogs, horses, &c., box of shells from Talamanea, Costa, Rica.

Galvin, Thomas. Stone pestle from Rhode Island.

Garrett, A. Land and fresh-water shells from Tahiti.

Gattunger, Dr. August. Specimens of European mosses, (JJusci.)

Gianque, Florien. Specimens of celt bark-peelers from Ohio.

Gibson, J. P. Calcareous rocks from Concord, N. C.

Gilchrist, James. Specimen of mineral from Wheeling, W. Va.

Gill, Herbert A. Specimens of bats (Scotophilus fuscus) from the District
of Columbia.

Gilliss, Capt. James, U. 8. A. Black-tailed deer (Cariacus macrotis) and
black-footed ferret (Putorius nigripes) from Cheyenne, Wyo.
ADDITIONS TO THE COLLECTIONS. @

Glover, Townend. Specimen of malformed carp (Cyprinus carpio) from
the District of Columbia.

Golden, H. W. Three specimens of land-locked smelt (Osmerus sp.)
trom Belgrade, Me.

Goode, G. Browne. Specimens of shad, (Alosa sapidissima ;) mullet,
(Mugil lineatus ;) spotted squeteague, (Cynoscion carolinensis ;) yellow
perch, (Perca jflavescens ;) sun-fish, (Pomotis aureus ;) sucker, (Cato-
stomus ;) catfish, (Amiurus atrarius;) “smnelts,” (Hybopsis ;) 10 spec-
imens of carp, (Carassius auratus ;) pike, (Zsox,) from Washington
market; 8 alligator-skins, Indian-tanned deer-skins, from Indian
River, Fla.; collection of fishes and reptiles of Kast Florida; speci-
mens of columbite and molybdenite; 30 mallard-ducks, (Anas bos-
chas ;) 2 rabbits, (Lepus sylvaticus ;) 130 living animals from Florida,
transmitted to Zoological Gardens of Philadelphia.

Grant, M. N. Soda from a soda lake, Laramie Plains, Wyo.

Grant, William. Specimen of harlequin-snake (Llaps sp.) from Coura-
litas, Chihuahua, Mexico.

Gray, Arthur F. Box of shells from Cedar Keys, Fla.

Green, H. A. Copper spear from Livingston County, New York.

Green, Monroe A. Sturgeon, (Accipenser sp.) 8 days old, from Hudson
iver. ©

Gregory, S. S. Hornet’s nest from Berea, Ohio.

Griswold’s (B. B.) School. Indian relics from Maryland.

Gruber, F. Skull and skin of head of young sea-lion (Humetopias Stel-
leri) from California.

Gunnell, T. M., Medical Director U. 8S. N. YFeather-coat from Bering’s
Strait.

Haigh, Dr. A.V. Indian implements from Wellborn, Ark.

Hale, Dr. Specimens of orthoptera from Middle Park, Colo.

Hamilton, R. J. Indian arrow-straightener from Chapurito, Mexico.

Hanley, Sylvanus. One hundred and five species of mollusks from Eng-
land.

Hardenburgh, A. R., surveyor-general of California. Specimens of gold,
silver, quicksilver, and lead ores from various mines in California.
Hardenburgh, G. Rk. Skins of six species of birds from New Brunswick,

Noid:

Harkness, James. Frontal bone of human skull.

Harper, G. W. Specimens of shells from Ohio.

Hart, J. P. Crystals from Kansas.

Harvey & Holden. Specimen of Virginia rail (Rallus virginiana) from
Virginia.

Hathaway, G. W. Samples of ore from Tioga, Pa.

Haven, Williams & Co. Skins of fur-seal from Antarctic Ocean and
samples of oils.

Hazard, Joseph P. Minerals from North Carolina, South Carolina, and
Virginia,
80 ADDITIONS TO THE COLLECTIONS.

Hempstead, G. 8S. B. Box of ethnologica from Portsmouth, Ohio, and
vicinity.

Henderson, J. H. Shoes made from rattlesnake and chicken-snake
skins, tanned deer-skin, and antidote tor rattlesnake’s bite from Ala-
bama.

Hering, Dr. C.J. Skull of tapir, horns of deer, stone implements, and
bird-skins from Paramaribo, Mexico.

Herran, Thomas V., President University of Medellin, Colombia, S. A.
Living orchids from Colombia.

Herrendean, Captain. Specimen of Pseudopriacanthus altus from Wood’s
Hole, Mass.

Heyman, Isaae. Mineral from Alabama.

Hill, A. F. Fragments of pottery from Masontown, Pa.

Hill, Dr. H.W. Casts of stone implements from Cincinnati, Ohio.

Hoderman, Henry. Malformed heun’s egg.

Holmes, F. 8S. Ancient pottery from Charleston, 8. C.; bust of Osceola.

Holston Salt and Plaster Company. Box of salts and plasters from Salt-
ville, Va.

Hooper, W. L., & Sons, Baltimore, Md. Fyke, trammel, and seine nets,
and specimens of twine used in manufacturing fish-nets.

Hoskinson, Rk. M. Five univalve shells from Kansas.

Hough, Daniel. Cast of stone implement from Indiana.

Hough, Dr. Rk. B. Box of Indian relics, arrow-points, Indian dresses,
and ethnologica from New York.

Hough, Lewis 8S. Stone pestles from Maryland.

Houston, Hdward. Stone implements from Irish Grove, Mo.

Hoy, Dr. P. KR. Specimens of whitefish (Coregonus sp.) and burbot
(Lota »aculosa) from Racine, Wis.

Hoyt, B. F. Oue box of Unionidae from Iowa.

Hoyt, I. H. Oue box of shells from Iowa.

Howe, H. M. Thirteen boxes of minerals, illustrating the mineral re-
sources of parts of New Hampshire, Massachusetts, Vermont, New
York, Maine, Rhode Island, &e.

Howland, J. 8S. Bull-whip used on the plains.

Hunt, J. WH. One box Unionide and one box stone implements from
Ohio.

Huston, Licut. J. T., U. S.A. Specimen of beetle, (Monohammus titil-
lator.)

Hutchinson, S. G., Johnstown, N. Y. Series of skins and gloves illus-
trating processes of glove-manufacture.

Hutchinson, H. M. Chinese dog, in flesh, (Canis familiaris.)

Hyatt, If. O., M. D. Specimens of alcoholic fishes from Tarboro, N. C.

Janeway, John H. Two specimens of gophers in alcohol from Fort
Wallace.

Jewell, Hon. Harvey. Specimens of brook-trout (Salmo fontinalis) and
land-locked salmon (Salmo sebago) from Sysladobsis Lake, Me.
ADDITIONS TO THE COLLECTIONS. 81

Johnson, Luis. See under Angel, Dr. Manuel Uribé y.

Johnston, F. H. Specimens of cod, (Gadus morrhua,) haddock, (Melano-
grammus ceglefinus,) and hake, (Phycis chuss,) trom Massachusetts.

Jones, W. H., passed assistant surgeon, U.S. N. Four skulls of natives
of Honolulu.

Jones, Rev. C. M. Wing of hawk from Towa.

Kaehler, F. Skull (partial) and teeth of horse, (Zquus caballus.)

Kaucher, William. Specimens of minerals from Oregon, Mo.

Keim, M. Insects from Danville, Va.

Kempton, C. W. Specimens of galena, quartz, copper, auriferous pyri-
tes, &c., from Essex County, Mass.

Kercheval, A. W. Specimen of cannel-coal from Romney, W. Va.

Kershner, Dr. Edward, U. 8. N. Sixteen boxes of birds, fishes, woods,
minerals, mammals, &c., from Australasia.

Kidder, Dr. Jerome H., U. S. N. Fifteen boxes, one barrel, one keg,
natural-history specimens from Kerguelen Island.

King, OC. J.. Skin of poreupine (Lrethizon dorsatus) from Mount Wash-
ington, N. H..

Kinnett, White. Miner’s wooden shovel from shaft in Washington
County, Mo., used sixty years ago.

Kinney, Thomas W. Photographs of Indian relics from Maysville, Ky.

Kirkby, W. W. One box of natural-history specimens, birds’ eggs, and
mammal from Hudson’s Bay.

Kjerulf, Dr. Wava-dust from Tryssil, Norway.

Knapp, Dr. James. Paint-cups and stone implements from Louis-
ville, Ky.

Knight, Joseph. Specimens of minerals from Mount Union, Pa.

Koberlin, Frederick, M.D. Map of “‘ Nova Belgica et Anglia Nova.”

Kratachoil, Dr. J. Pottery from Chiriqui, Panama.

Laing, Dr. J. M., U. 8S. A. Specimen of bat-fish (Alalihe cubifrons) from
Florida.

Langille, Rev. J. H. Specimens of insects.

Lapham, Dr. I. A. Box of shells from Wisconsin.

Lapham, I. G. Modelof animal mounds of Wisconsin.

Latham, James H. Specimens of fishes and invertebrates; eel-pot from
Noank, Conn,

Latimer, W. H. Ten barrels and sixteen boxes stone and other relics
from Porto Rico and elsewhere.

Le Baron, J. Francis. Twenty specimens of red-poll, (A7giothus linaria ;)
shells; skin of snipe, (Pelidna americana;) and insects in alcohol,
from Massachusetts.

Leavenworth, J. H. Specimen of Virginian deer, albino, (Cariacus vir-
ginianus,) from Peshtigo, Wis.

Ledyard, L. W. Pottery from shell-heap mounds, Florida; two stone
sinkers from Oneida Lake, and other stone implements from Western
New York.

MTS.

6
82 ADDITIONS TO THE COLLECTIONS.

Lewis, Albert E. Pottery from old Indian village, site of Hochelaga.

Titlard, John B. Stone pestle; box of bones of Indian children, teeth,
&c., (supposed “ pigmies,”) and costal segment of tortoise, from Ten-
nessee.

Lindheimer, Dr. F. Stone spear and arrow heads, perforator, &c., from
New Braunfels, Tex.

Lindstrohm, Dr. G. Thirty-one species of invertebrates from the Baltic
Sea.

Lloyd, C. Minerals, fossils, bones, &c., from Missouri.

Lloyd, [. W. Specimens of lignite from Marshall, Texas.

Loew, Dr. Oscar. Steatite from Fichtelgebirge, Germany.

Louderback, W. H. Arrow-points from Kentucky.

Iucas, David. Seeds of Nelumbium luteum.

Ludington, C. Three bottles of young shad and herring from the Poto-.
mac hiver.

Tull, Comr. E. P., U. 8. N. One box of pottery from Newport, R. I.

Tiitken, Prof. C. Box of alcoholic fishes from South America.

Liittwitz, Lieut. A. H. von., U.S. A. Skin of golden eagle (Aquila chry-
saétos) from Wyoming.

Lyford, Dr. William H. Hematite axe; bear’s tooth from Illinois.

McAdoo, W. G. Indian relies from Milledgeville, Ga.

McChesney, Charles E. Specimens of ducks (Spatula, Aix, Bucephala,
and Lophodytes) from Dakota.

McClellan, Dr. E., U. 8. A. Deformed skull of woodchuck (Arctomys
monax) from Kentucky.

McClintock, Frank. Barth from bottom of Great Salt Lake, Utah.

McCrary, Dr. E. W. Minerals and ethnologica from Arkansas.

McIlvaine, A. Rk. Stone implement from Raleigh, Iowa.

McKenzie, Dr. N. K. Indian implements from Wellsville, Ohio.

McKinley, William. Three boxes of ethnologica from Milledgeville, Ga.

McLeod, Rev. Robert R. Two caribou (Rangifer caribou) in flesh; Can-
ada lynx, (Lynx Canadensis ;) (Vulpes alopex var. fulvus ;) skins of
pine-grosbeak, woodpecker, Canada jay, &c.; cross-fox and birch-
bark canoe, from Maine.

McMahon, James. Specimen of tabulate coral from Indiana.

McWilliams, Dr. Skin of silver clarion (Myiadestes unicolor) from Mex-
ico.

Macy, S. W. Box of wooden and stone implements from Polynesia.

Malone, D. R. Package of ethnologica from Indiana.

Maltzan, Baron von. Sixty-five species of shells from Norway.

Manigault, Dr. G. E. Skeletons of oldwife (Balistes vetula) and rattle-
snake (Crotalus adamanteus) from South Carolina.

Mann, A. 8S. Specimens of sea-horses (Hippocampus sp.) and poreupine-
fish (Diodon sp.) from Florida.

Marcy, J. FE. Speeimen of turtle in alcohol.

Martin, Dudley A. Package of Indian relics from Pennsylvania.
ADDITIONS TO THE COLLECTIONS. 83

Martin, Horace. Box of pottery from Corning, Mo.

Mather, Fred. Box of fresh grayling (Thymallus tricolor) and spawn
and embryos of same from Honeoye Falls, N. Y. ;

Matulé, Juan Ygnacio. Specimens of the 1, 2, 3, 4, and 5 eruptions of
the voleano of Ceboruco, Mexico.

Maury, M. F. Twelve boxes illustrating the coal resources of West
Virginia.

Mazyck, William G. One package of unios from South Carolina.

Meek, Prof. F. B. One box and one barrel of reptiles, echinoderms, c.,
from Florida.

Meigs, Gen. M. C. Geological specimens from Indian Territory.

Meigs, Mrs. M. C. Collection of Central American birds.

Mercer, Dr. F. W. Box of stone implements from Anna, Ill.

Mercer, R. W. Box of stone implements from Ohio.

Merrill, Dr. J. C., U. S. A. Four skins of European tree sparrow
(Passer Montana) from Saint Louis, Mo.

Middleton & Carman. Specimens of dolphin, (Coryphena Seuerii,) but-
terfish, (Poronotus triancanthus,) and black ruddertfish, (Palinurichthys
perciformis,) from Fulton Market, N. Y.

Middletown, Conn., Wesleyan University. Three mounted specimens of
Buteo polysomus, and Phalcobenus montanus, from Ecuador and Peru;
specimens of black-walnut bird-stands.

Mills, Clark. Cast of fossil shark’s tooth.

Milner, James W. See under Washington, U. S. Commission of Fish
and Fisheries.

Moffat, EH. 8S. Five boxes of iron-ores from Morris County, N. J.

Monroe, Charles E. Two boxes of fossils from Annapolis, Md.

Moore, N. B. Skin of Harlan’s Hawk, (Buteo Harlani.)

Moores, H. Box of shells from Columbus, Ohio.

Moran, Dr. George H., U. S. A. Mounted specimen of Virginia rail
(Rallus Virginianus) from Charleston, 8. C.

Morgan, 8S. B. Specimen of coal from Tennessee.

Morley, J. R. Box of Rocky Mountain locusts, from Fort Scott, Kans.

Morris, S. Ff. Two boxes of iron-ores from Quinnimont, W. Va.

Morse, Charles H. Book illustrating punishments 25 years ago in
China.

Munn, J. Box of oils and bone from whale’s héad from Newfoundland.

Newberry, Dr. C. Chest of bird-skins ; zoological collection frem Black
Hills, Wyo.

New Jersey Zine Company, Passaic, N. J. Specimens of zine and miner-
als.

Newton, Dr. Box of fossils from Kansas.

Nickell, G. W. Specimens of minerals.

Nickerson, George Y. Seal-skin buoy from Greenland, and various arti-
cles illustrating whale-fishing.
84 ADDITIONS TO THE COLLECTIONS.

Nimrod Furnace Company. Box of minerals from Youn gstown, Ohio.

Norton, John V. Box of ancient pottery and other ethnologica from
Peru.

Owen House, Washington, D. C. Specimen of ‘oyster-fish,” (Batrachus
tau.)

Orvis, Charles F. One “ Orvis fishing-reel.”

Otis, Colonel. Skull and fossil wood from California.

Oudeslys, Charles L. One bottle of asbestos-oil.

Ourley, J. B. Box of flint hatchets and fossils from Ohio.

Pacific Guano Company, Woods Hole, Mass. Materials for making
guano.

Palmer, Dr. EH. One box of ancient pottery; 2 boxes birds from Gua-
dalupe; 7 boxes and 1 package ethnologica from California.

Palmer, F. W. Stone beads from Brockport, N. Y.

Pardon, W. P. Package of ethnological specimens from Maryland.

Parish, Grant. Double egg of hen.

Parrott, R. D. H. Box of “mineral wood.”

Patterson, Holmes A. Indian stone implements from Flint River, Miss.

Patterson, Dr. D. C. Specimen of lignite found 65 feet below the sur-
face, Washington, D. C.

Pease, Harper. Collection of mollusea from Sandwich Islands.

Phiilips, William. Box of stone implements and specimens of natural
history, alcoholic, from Georgia.

Phenix Mines. Box of minerals.

Pierce, EH. G. Piece of Sir William Pepperell’s house, &c., in Kittery,
Me.

Pierce, Small arrow-points from Maysville, Ky.

Pike, k. G. Two young specimens of salmon (Salmo quinnat) from
Branford, Conn.

Plummer, Sumner J. See under Dillingham, Joseph Rf.

Poey, Prof. Felipe. Specimen ot Sarothrodus amplexicollis from Cuba.

Pomeroy, Mrs. Mary H. Indian clothing from western plains.

Potter, Elihu H. Albino eel (Anguilla bostoniensis) from Noank, Conn.

Powell, Samuel. Stone ax; 2 cans of alcoholic fishes from Newport, R. I.

Powell, Maj. J. W., Washington, Interior Department. Five boxes of fos-
sils; skull of bison, (bison americanus ;) 10 boxes of ethnological
specimens; 4 boxes of general collection.

Powers, Stephen. Box of Indian implements: from Susanville, Cal.; 3
boxes of Indian implements from Pyramid Lake, Nev.; 2 boxes eth-
nologica from Colorado. See Washington, D. C., Smithsonian Insti-
tution.

Price, Henry M. Specimens of amethystine quartz from Antioch, Va.

Prior, William, jr., & Co., Boston. Specimens of haddock and hake.

Providence, Rk. I., Brown University, of. Skin of file-fish (Balistes vetula)
from Rhode Island.

Pulsifer, Sidney. Three stone axes and 2 pieces of pottery (deposited)
from Illinois.

ADDITIONS TO THE COLLECTIONS. 85

Pybas, Ben. Box of stone implements and specimen of coal-plant from
Alabama.

Quail, William. Two moths (Samia cecropia) from Pennsylvania.

Randle, Mrs. E. H. Box of Indian relics from Tennessee.

Rawson, Governor. Eleven Carib shell-chisels from Barbadoes.

Raymond Coal Company. Box of coal from Raymond, W. Va.

Renfrew, G. R., & Co., Quebec. Series of marketable furs from Labrador
coast, moccasins, &e.; shark, (Somniosus brevipinnis ;) white porpoise,
(Delphinapterus catodon,) from Labrador.

Reuss, Dr. A. Skulls of foxes (Vulpes sp.) and other mammals from
Belleville, Il.

thea, Maj. Alexander. Indian relics from Tennessee.

Tticksecker, H. Skin and egg of wren (Catherpes mexicanus) from Texas.

Ried, James H., M. D. Box of skulls and Ute arrows from Colorado.

ftidgway, C. W. Collections of bird-skins and living fox (Vulpes) from
Mount Carmel, Ll.

Ktidgway, Robert, Collection of vines from Illinois.

Robertson, Augusta. Fragment of fossil fern (?) from Arkansas.

Robertson, J. L. Specimen of mineral from Arkansas.

Robertson, W. S. Specimens of sediment of Arkansas River, Ark.

Robertson, Capt. Zephaniah. Sperm-whale’s jaw from Congo River,
Africa.

Roessler, F. E. Three boxes and onepackage ethnological material from
Saint Louis, Mo.

Roney, C. J. Box of geological specimens from Ulinois.

Ropes, H. E. Indian pottery from Florida.

Rudasilk, J. M. Specimen of mineral from Virginia.

Russel, Benj. Specimens of fishes, in alcohol, from Massachusetts.

Ryder, Stephen A. Seal (Phoca vitulina) in flesh from Princeton, Mass.

Sacramento, Cal., Agassiz Institute. Box of stone implements from Cali-
fornia.

Salvin, Osbert. Box of birds and specimen bird-case from England.

Sanborn, J. K. Silurian fossils from Williamsport, Pa.

San Diego Cal., Academy of Sciences of. Photographs of Indians of San
Diego ; bird-skin ; skin of badger, (Taxidea americana ;) and skull and
ears of black-tailed deer, (C. columbianus.)

Sargent, Hon. 4. A. Box of gold and silver ores from Sitka, Alaska.

Sarg, #. Specimen of Honduras turkey (Meleagris ocellata) from Coban.

Savoy, Lowis. Specimen of petrified wood from Brightwood.

Scarborough, J. V. B. Collection of reptiles and fresh-water shells from
Ohio.

Schayer Bros., Boston, Mass. Articles made from alligator-leather.

Schneck, J. Stone and iron implements, &c., from Ohio.

Schuermann, Carl W. Skin of barred owl (Syrniwm nebuloswm) from Vir-
ginia.

Schumacher, Paul. Fifty-one boxes of ethnological specimens from
Santa Babara, Cal.
86 ADDITIONS TO THE COLLECTIONS.

Scuphan, J. R. Specimens of spermophile (Spermophilus harrissii) and
crawfish from California.

Seeds, O. H. Skull of Comanche chief from Texas.

Sevey, J. A., Boston. Collection illustrating the manufavture of whale-
bone.

Shardlow, Joseph. One box of carvings from American ivory and bone.

Shearer, J. S. Specimen of aerolite from Forks of Solomon River.

Shepard, C. U. Box of minerals from Massachusetts.

Shepard, LE. W. Indian relics from Poughquay, N. Y.

Sherman, J. M. Specimen of mineral.

Shirley G Son. Fish-hatching apparatus.

Shotwell, J. R. One box of smelts, &c., from Raritan River, N. J.

Shute, J. G. Stone sinker from Jamaica Plains.

Sibley, P. B. Box of stone implements from Missouri,

Slagle, J. W. Stone implements from South Carolina.

Slater, W. F. Ammonite from Cow Island, Upper Missouri.

Slocum, George. Specimen of billfish (Huleptorhamphus longirostris
from Newport, R. I.

Smith, A. F. Specimens of silver-ore supposed from Texas.

Smith, Rev. C. D. Specimens of minerals from Macon County, N. C.

Smith, H. J. Chain made from cherry and peach pits.

Sinith, Edwin, U. S. Coast Survey. Two Maori and one Moriori skulls
from Chatham Islands, South Pacific. See under Washington.

Snyder, Dr. J. F. Box of stone disks; box of Indian implements from
Illinois.

Southwick, J. M. Kk. Models and samples of fishing-tackle, &c., used
about Newport, hk. I.

Spangler, George. Arrow-heads and fossils from Madison, Ind.,
quartz-crystals from Warm Springs, Ark.; trilobites, fossil, and
brachiopods from Indiana.

Sprague, Stephen. Specimen of ore from Mason, Texas.

Spring, J. A., and H. Buschman. Birds’ nests and eggs; collection of
plants; mutilated specimen of chaparral-cock (Geococcyx califor-
nianus) from Arizona.

Spur Mountain Iron Mining Company, Henry M. Walker, President. Box
of minerals. :

Stanago, S. W. Box of shells from Ohio.

Stanforth, Richard. Specimens of catfish from Maryland.

Stanton, Clarence L. Diminutive arrow-points; box of ethnological
specimens from Maysville, Ky.

Steinberger, Col. A. B. Specimen of Palolo mats, canoes, utensils for
cooking, &e., from the Samoan Islands.

Stephens, F. Skin of sparrow (Coturniculus passerinus) from Colorado
Springs, Colo.

Sternberg, Charles W. Eggs and birds’ nests from Kansas ; box of fossils
from Nebraska.

Stevens, H. A. Specimens of decoy ducks.
ADDITIONS TO THE COLLECTIONS. 87

Stevens, D. W. Specimen of sucker (Leptecheneits naucrateoides) from
Vineyard Haven, Mass.

Stevenson, James. Skin and skeleton of Little Chief hare, (Lagomys
princeps.)

Stone, Livingston. (See under Washington, U. S. Commission of Fish
and Fisheries.) Collection of fishes from California; two boxes of
alcoholic fishes from McCloud River, California; can of alcoholic fishes

from California; four packages of Indian implements from McCloud
tiver Indians.

Stratton, Lorenzo. Box of ethnological specimens from Tennessee.

Strode, Stephen. Supposed silver-ore from Texas.

Summerhayes, Lieut., U. S. A. Scorpion from La Paz, Ariz.

Sutro, Adolph. Cast-iron model of ‘ Sutro” tunnel.

Swan, J. G. Two boxes of Indian curiosities, Northwestern coast.

Sweeney, R. O. Box of alecholic specimens.

Swift, H. FE. Baleen of fin-back whale from Provincetown, Mass.

Taber, Frank. Two birds’ nests from Ohio.

Taylor, Lewis H. Fyresh-water fishes from Susquehanna River; one jaz
of brook-trout (Salmo fontinalis) from Luzerne County, Pa.

Thompson, John A. Box of stone disks from burial-mounds in Jersey
County, Ll.

Thomson, John H. Arrow-head; specimens of yellow mackerel, (Para-
tractus pisquetus ;) banded rudder-fish, (Halatractus zonatus) file-fish
(Alutera cuspicauda) &e.; whale-boat gear, from Massachusetts.

Throckmorton, S. R. Specimens of salmon from San Francisco Bay, Cal.

True and Sutton. Head of buffalo (Bos americanus) from Colorado.

Tune and Graham. Specimen of fish-hawk (Pandion carolinensis) from
Fauquier County, Virginia.

Turner, Lucien M. Box of bird skins and eggs from Saint Michael’s,
Alaska.

Turner, Samuel. Specimen of mud pup, (Menopoma alleghaniensis) lam-
preys, and snakes from Mount Carmel, Ill.

Twitchill, R. W. Box of fossils from Indiana.

Underwood, William, & Sons. Box of canned meats.

Vance, Hon. Robert B. Leaves of plants from Macon, N. C.

Van Fleet, Walter. Skin of muskrat (Fiber zibethicus) from Watson-
town, Pa.

Van Nostrand, J. Box of stone implements from Texas.

Velie, Dr. J. W. Stuffed specimen of curlew, (Limosa hudsonica) two
specimens of white-fronted geese (Anser gambelli) from Chicago, Il.

Waggaman, J. H. Mounted specimen of red-bead duck (Aythya ameri-
cana) from Washington, D. C.

Walker, Mrs. Dora H. Two boxes of fossils from Texas.

Walker, Dr. R. I. Package of arrow-heads and two living menopomas

from Mansfield, Pa.

Wallace, Charles M. Package of supposed infusorial earth from Rich-

mond, Va.

b]
88 ADDITIONS TO THE COLLECTIONS.

Wallace, John. Brazilian head-dress made of beetle-wings; head of
black-tailed deer, (Cariacus columbianus) carcass of bird.

Wasson, John, surveyor-general, Arizona; collection of minerals from
Arizona; collection of iron ores from Arizona.

Webb, J. G. Two barrels of shells from Florida.

Webber, Mrs. F. P. Specimens of arrow-heads from Georgia.

Webber, Mrs. Mary C. Fossils from Alabama.

Webster, Colonel. Specimen of little blue heron (Florida caerulea) from
Potomac River.

Weeks and Potter. Sample of ambergris from Indian Ocean.

Welfley, D. P. Virginia deer in flesh (Cariacus virginianus) from Cuin-
berland, Md.

Wells, S. I. Dried potatoes from La Junta, N. Mex.

Welsher, H. W. One bottle of alcoholic fishes from Ferry Landing, Va.j
one sturgeon (Acipenser) and four gar-fishes, (Lepidosteus osseus.)

Wendt, A. F. Box of minerals from New York.

Wesleyan University. See under Middletown, Conn.

Wheeler, Lieut. Geo. M. Collection of skins and alcoholic collection of
mammals; two boxes of fossils and minerals; eight hundred and
ninety bird-skins, six nests, eleven eggs, seven hundred and sixty
coleoptera, forty-three lots of hemiptera, one hundred and ninety-
four hymenoptera, one hundred and forty-five lepidoptera; botanical
collection of 1874; Indian blankets, quivers, &c.; six skins of gray
fox (Vulpes littoralis) from Santa Cruz, Cal.; two boxes of type
fossils.

Wesche, Charles E. Specimen of beetle from New Mexico.

Wetherby, A. G. Stone implements from Ohio. |

White, Dr. C. A. Cast of fossil tooth from Iowa; fragment of the
‘ oreat Iowa meteorite.”

White, W. H. Nest and eggs from Mebanesville, N. C.

Whiteaves, J. S. Sixteen bottles of alcoholic fishes from Saint Lawrence
River and Gulf; forty-five species of shells from Gulf of Saint Law
rence.

Whitman, G. P. Specimens of erevalle and crab; sea-mouse, (Aphr a)
from Massachusetts.

Whitney Armory. Two rifles and one shot-gun, breech-loading.

Wicks, George T. Fossil ore and (?) brown atic.

Wiggans, John B. Steatite pyramid from Chula, Amelia County, Va. ;
unfinished stone implement from same place.

Williams, Haven & Co. Fur-seal skins from Patagonia.

Williamson, Hon. George, U. 8S. minister, Guatemala. Ethnological collec-
tion from Guatemala.

Wilson, A. D. Nest and four eggs of white-tailed ptarmigan (Lagopus
leucurus) from Colorado. (Dr. Hayden’s expedition.)

Wilson, Rev. C. W. Two copper beads from Wisconsin.

Woodforth, Philip R. Specimen of horns and hoofs of domesticated
bovines. .

ADDITIONS TO THE COLLECTIONS. 89

Wooster, A. F. Specimen of marble from Connecticut ; arrow-points,
and old Continental newspapers and Continental sixty-tive-dollar note,
1779; specimen of salamander (Plethodon erythronotus) from Connec-
ticut.

Wright, J. W. A. Fossil fish from Wyoming Territory.

Yarrow, Dr. H. C. Collection of foreign shells; fossils and celt ; collec-
tion of alcoholic fishes, reptiles, and insects.

Zoological Society of London. Fragment of ‘‘ new marine animal” from
Northwest coast United States.

Washington, D. C.:

Depariment of State. See under the name of George Williamson, U.S.
minister, Guatemala.

Treasury Department, United States Coast Survey. See under the
names of A. W. Chase, W. H. Dall, and Edicin Smith.

War Department:

United States Armyt See under the names of General M. C. Meigs,
Col. A. G. Brackett, Capt. Charles Bendire, Capt. A. W. Corliss,
Capt. James Gilliss, Lieuts. W. L. Carpenter, J. F. Huston, and
George M. Wheeler.

Surgeon-General’s Office, United States Army Medical Museum, (Dr. G.
A. Otis in charge.) Tonto Apache; medicine-stick; clay-pipe from
Virginia; feathered bonnet of Cheyenne medicine-man from Kan-
sas. See also under the names of Drs. G. C. Byrne, E. McClellan,
Elliott Coues, J. M. Laing, and George 8S. Moran, medical officers
United States Army.

Surveys west of the one hundredth meridian, Lieut. G. M. Wheeler in
charge. General zoological collections made by Drs. H. C. Yar-
row, J. F. Rothrock, and Mr. H. W. Henshaw.

Signal. Service U. S. Army. See under the name of Sergeant Lucien
M. Turner.

Navy Department, U. S. A.:

U. S. Navy. See under the names of Commander EH. P. Lull, Lieut.
B. Long Edes, and F. M. Gunnell, Medical Director U. S. N.; also
under Passed Assistant Engineer G. W. Baird.

Bureau of Navigation, Commodore Daniel Ammen. Specimens of
ocean-bottom between San Francisco and the Sandwich Islands;
dredgings by United States Steamer Narragansett in Gulf of Cali-
fornia, Commander George Dewey; natural-history specimens from
Pacific Ocean, United States Steamer Tuscarora. See also under
names of Drs. Kidder, Kershner, Coues, W. H. Jones, T. H. Streets,
and Bransford.

Interior Department, U. S. A.:

General Land-Office. See under the names of Surveyors-General L.
Hardenburgh and John Wasson.

United States Geological Survey of the Territories, (Prof. F. V. Hayden
in charge.) One stone; nine mammal-skins; ten skulls of mam-
mals; two skins of birds from Colorado.
90

ADDITIONS TO THE COLLECTIONS.

United States Commission of Fish and Fisheries, (Prof. Spencer F.

Baird, Commissioner.) One hundred and fifty-four boxes of gen-
eral zoological collections from Wood’s Hole, Mass., and vicinity,
by Prof. A. E. Verrill, G. Brown Goode, and Tarleton H. Bean ;
two large tank reptiles and fishes from Kiuston, N.C. ; specimen
of redfish (Scicenops ocellatus) from North Carolina ; collection of
insects from Kinston, N. C.; two boxes of insects from Waukegan,
Ill., and collection of fishes from Potomac River, by James W.
Milner ; three boxes collection of fishes from California, box of
alcoholic specimens from McCloud River, Cal., and case of
ethnological collections from California, by Livingston Stone ; al-
coholic fishes from Mississippi, by Frederick Mather ; one bottle
of natural-history specimens from Ferry Landing, Va., speci-
mens of sturgeon and gar, (Lepidosteus osseus,) by H. W.
Welsher; skeleton of black-fish, (Globicephalus melas ;) box of
fish from Wood’s Hole, Mass.; baleen and chin of hump-back
whale, specimen of young sea-salmon, (Salmo salar,) baleen of
finback whale, conger-eel, box of fishes, invertebrates, &c., eight
boxes of fresh fish, specimens of Scomberesox and Pomolobus, two
skeletons of cow-fish, and skeleton Grampus, by Vinal N. Edwards;
models of boats, &e.

Survey of the Colorado, (Maj. J. W. Powell in charge.) Five boxes of

fossils; skull of bison, (Bison americanus ;) ten boxes of ethnological
specimens; four boxes of general collection.

Department of Agriculture, (Hon. Frederick Watts, Commissioner.) Co-

coons, &c., of B. mori; 200 living fire-flies, Photinus (Llliperlampis)
pyralis, for introduction into Bermuda, &e.
EXCHANGES. 91

STATISTICS OF LITERARY AND SCIENTIFIC EXCHANGES IN 1875.

BOXES SENT ABROAD.

|
Mier No. of| Cubic) Weight in
ANG ia CO Tia boxes.) feet. pounds.
To Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences, Stockholm.....-..:.. 4 30 900
To Royal Danish Society of Copenhagen ...-2..---.---- :--.<- Sale ola 600
To Royal University of Norway, Christiana......-..-...-.--- Dae aS 400
To L. Watkins & Co., St. Petersburg, Russia..---.-...--.---. | i) GB 1, 800
To Fr. Miiller, Amsterdam, LOLs 6 LOU beemeee se eerie | 6} 45 1, 200
To Prof. von Baumhauer, Bureau Scientifique Néerlandais, Har- 4} 30] 900
lem. | |

To Dr. Felix Fliigel, Leipzic:

Germany, Austria, Switzerland, and Greece.----. ..---.---- AGE 325 10, 000
MorGustavie bossangre, Paris. 2. - 25 esses ieee eee sociales coe: Ho Tet I a18{0) 3, 600
To U. Hoepli, Reale Istituto Lombardi di Scienze e Lettere, 8 60 1, 600

Milano.
To William Wesley, London:

Great Britain, British possessions in Asia, &c-.-..--------- 43 | 325 8, 600
TorAcademia Realidas)|Screncas,misbone. 2. sae --) 2s eee eee OF eeelon| 400
To Real Academia de Ciencias de Madrid.-.-..-...----.-.----. 2 15 400
To Cuba, Real Universidad de la Habana.----.-.----.------- 1) u 200
ROL hil Wma ersibyewcees efs ety al een sion a= = ate e a Seisck Dal) ole! 400
To Mexico, Sociedad Mexicana de Geografia y Estadisca. - .-..| 1| 7 200
Wowbrotybunmeister. p~pUuenoseAyTeses. sso cases sses lea oe acces | 1 aa 200
piolGeorsetowm, British Guiana seser-seemseenaia= oa nee | ‘Ls 5 150
MOP enue mee ete eet setae e ctsc Seis rereie ale wale See ee re enslanetears | 1 | a | 200

| 154/ 1123] 31,800
PRGSHOLEIONI SO OMELMMEM tS tone sare nase eleiieicice te hee siet inte ciel relates 54 | 320 13, 500
| 208 | 1503! 45, 300

Besides these, 1 box was sent to Turkey by favor of the American
Board of Commissioners for Foreign Missions in Boston, and smaller
boxes to Nicaragua, Costa Rica, Guatemala, Bogota, Kingston,
(Jamaica,) Trinidad, (Port of Spain,) St. Pierre, Martinique,CapeTown, —
Natal, St. Helena.

Government exchanges.

Boxes.
MoiGovernmentior Ontario; Loronto, Canadapensacccees sesna-sose ese ane eae ee 2
omarhamentary Library, Ottawa, Canada. 22-.2--26 s.cons 22-56 32 - sen en cle 1
Ho Erance,; Lortuugal, sweden), Durkey, set/ot 6 boxes! )------o----sea- soos ees 24
To Mexico, Brazil, Argentine Republic, set of 6 boxes each ....-.....------------ 18
opbeloimm and Chili 4 poxes CACh cen Acs cis cciac fs So csie's neces eolae a nemeeene 8
STO RN Aerator ee ee wie tena nema a ean SR Ris a eaiawidl sinis © SSM tyes apenas meetepereiar- 1

DOIN CS aSais Bae a Sk SEB or Re ee Ree Ae ng gi ee ed 54
EXCHANGES.

PACKAGES RECEIVED BY THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION FROM EUROPE,
ETC., IN 1875, FOR DISTRIBUTION IN AMERICA.

CALIFORNIA.

Oakland:
University of California. ..-..--..---

Sacramento :
California Institution
Geological Survey of California..-.- --
Sacramento Agricultural Society ---- -
State Library

San Francisco :

California Academy of Natural Sci-

ences
Historical Society
Mayor of the City of San Francisco. -
Mercantile Library Association

Stockton:

California Insane Asylum

CONNECTICUT.

Hartford :
Connecticut State Board of Agriculture
Young Men’s Institute.--.--..---.--

New Haven:
American Journal of Science and Arts
American Oriental Society ..-..-.-----
Connecticut pen of Arts and Sci-

ale eeltere Observatory -..---- == -
Young Men’s Christian Association .- -
Young Men’s Christian Association,

(German)

ee ee

DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.

.

Georgetown :
Georgetown College

Washington:
Board of Indian Commissione?7s. -- ---
Bureau of Education
Bureau of Navigation
Bureau of Ordnance and Hydrography
Bureau of Statistics.......-.. /---..-
Census Bureau
Chief of oe Sen Serene eye, ©

ne gineor Beare Ntisecessevscaener
Gener Aland-OntGGs sees
pepe ical Sunvey of the Territories.

aiterior Tapacimont sya aera crete tae
Library of Congress! -2-. 22... -2--.-
Medical Society of the District of Co-

IVa Jase seooeceee rar
National Academy of Science-.----.---
Nautical Almanac. a- eases ae

No.

District CoLuMBrA—Continued.

Washington :

National Deaf-Mute College-.--..... :
Naval Observatory
Navy Department
Ordnance bureau escceseee eee
Patemt-Ofices sa o-oo saa eee ee
Public¢schools:. 22 2---=- a. seeeie ele
DlomaliOmmcetssceaecosaeeeose ee eee
State Depanimente-eese eaeee eee eee
Surgeon-General’s Office....-....----
Swedish and Norwegian Legation ---.
Rreasury, Departments ----2-=-sesee
WiarDepartment.2- nec. sere ee eee
Young Men’s Christian Association. --

ILLINOIS.
Chicago:
Botanical Garden
Chicago Academy of Science
Chicago Historical Society ..-------- :
Chicago Public Library
Dearborn Observatory
Mayor of the City of Chicago........
Young Men’s Association Library ---.
Jacksonville :
Illinois State Hospital for Insane-.--.
Peoria:
Mercantile iiibranyseeeeeeeeeeeeeeiae
Rantoul:
Rantoul Literary Society -.......-.--

INDIANA.

Indianapolis :
Geological Survey of Indiana
Indiana Institution for the Blind ..-..
State Library

IOWA.
Des Moines:
State TL Tbvany..- sees tore rele on eyareiere
Towa Cily:
Geological Survey of Iowa. .-.--.-.-.---
Iowa State University {22 .20).2226.2-
Laboratory of Physical Science..---..

KANSAS,

Leavenworth City:
une Men’s Christian Association. -.

KENTUCKY.
Cambridge :
College
Frankfort :
Geological Survey of Kentucky
Lexington :

Agricultural College
Young Men’s Christian Association...

No.

o~

ee moe oe

ao
EXCHANGES.

93

Packages received by the Smithsonian Institution, &c.—Continued.

Kentucky—Continued. No.
Louisville:
Richmond and Louisville Medical
POUL AG 3 tee eee eee eae e ree 1
LOUISIANA.

New Orleans :
Mayor of the City of New Orleans.... 1

New Orleans Academy of Natural
Sclentesseeceee ses con aee Soe sce eee 42

Statemnbrabyerses sce cree a scl -loos5- 7

University of Louisiana--....-.-.--- it

MAINE,

Augusta:
Siarerlilbraryin- cee sciecies he cces oa 1

Brunswick :

Bow d ompOouleceeeeense a sete selene 3

Historical Society of Maine ASE Se 1
Portland:

Commissioner of Fisheries......-.--. 2

Portland Society of Natural History.. 40
Waterville :
CollyyaUniversivyaa o-oo eee 1

MARYLAND.

Annapolis :
Shatemntbraryses cose asses oe eae il
United States Naval Academy-...---- if

Baltimore :
Maryland Historical Society. ..---. -- 2
Mayor of the city of Baltimore....-.. 1
Mercantile Dibraryg---)---=5=-s)e 2
Peabod ye lMsuivalewse sees ere eae 4
Young Men’s Christian Association.. 1

MASSACHUSETTS.

Amherst :
Agricultural College ...--. asa Bodo Ge 1
Amherst College) -== -a--es= ees Se 2
Geological Survey of Massachusetts.. 1

Boston :

American Academy of Arts and

DClONCOB Salen ce cae s ease eo cele meal 172
American Social Science Association. 1
American Statistical Association. ....
Board of Agriculture) -—--. -+----:--.-
Boardrofshducationnesss-ee se acces
Board of State Charities. .
BostonvArts Clubne 625-5 s2eecce een
BosponPeAMhen cM s sees sete ee veers
Boston Hospital Library.---...----
Boston Medical and Surgical Journal.
Boston Society of Natural History.--. 24
Bowditchwinlbrary esceseecece ee
Gynecological Society ....-..----.---
Massachusetts Historical Society -... -
Mayor of the City of Boston....-.....
Mercantile Library Association .-.--.-.
Perkins Institution for the Blind ....
Prison Discipline Society ....-....---
IFUL EN? Sosqeosowo eaoodearoe = 1
ScaLeuobrany eer ere sere eee
Young Men’s Christian Association. -.

'
'
‘

—

Qe ee WOW ee

RPODRP RHR WR wS

Massacnusetts—Continued. No.
Cambridge :
Cambridge Entomological Club....-. 1
HanvardiCollecese asses aieseeiel eee O
Harvard College Observatory --.----.- 3h
Harvard College Herbariumesscee= =e 4

Museum of Comp: arative Zoology .... 111
Jamaica Plain:

Bussey; Institution). --\-\. 5522... seeee 7

Northampton :

State Lunatic Hospital......-...:..- 1

Salem :

American Association for the Advance-
MON OMSCIONCE acces = aslsleeeaie te 41
American Naturalist.-5-5- =... -.--- 2
PissexalnetiGMberaeaeca aera ele g4
North Chureh and Society........... 1
Peabody Academy of Sciences -..---. 72

Worcester :

American Antiquarian Society....... 14
MICHIGAN.

Ann Arbor:
Observatory 2ic22s2 sss secs tose AO
University of Michigan-<----..-2..-. I

Detroit :

Michigan State Agricultural Society. 7
IMUSOUM ss ies cleeis onysaaislcnacrseeoeaescie: i
Publicainbranyeassacse Scie ee ee 1

Lansing :

Agricultural College....- Bao BSebc0 ce 1

Michigan State Board of Health.---. I

Stateruilbrany asses. sass cee: setiseieee MeL
MINNESOTA,

Minneapolis :

Minneapolis Academy of Natural Sci-
QNCOSH ciclo sssitts Sse eo coisa ee lcetee ae ae

Saint Paul:
Minnesota Historical Society.....---- 8
State Hospital for Insane..-........- 1

MISSOURI.

Jefferson City:

Governor of the State of Missouri.... 1

Saint Louis:

Geological Survey of Missouri..-..-.. 20

Mayor of the City of Saint Lonis.... 1
Public School Labraryesse- os ---e-e

Saint Louis Academy of Sciences.... 117
State Board of Agriculture......-... 1
University of Saint Louis.....-..-.. 3
NEBRASKA.
Omaha:
Young Men’s Christian Association... 2
NEW HAMPSHIRE.
Concord :
New Hampshire Asylum for the In-
SANOE A soe cee seeer Sse Soais-ciscn af
New Hampshire Historical Society... 1
EXCHANGES.

Packages received by the Smithsonian Institution, &e.—Continued.

New HEampsHire—Continued.
Concord :
SHAG Leo, Son ono ess CbcoGonGReEC
Young Men’s Christian Association. -
Hanover :
Dartmouth; Collesceeess cess cs-- +: -
Observatory of Dartmouth College-.- -
Manchester :
Citylaibranyepeceeteee see neee eee. =
NEW JERSEY.
New Brunswick :
Geological Survey of New Jersey-..--
Princeton :
College of New Jersey -----.-----.---
HalsteadeObservatonye.--.)--sssee
NEW YORK.
Albany:
JMispyany Ubi pti oo5 oo66en S606 scocKS
Dudley Observatory ..--.-----.-..--
New York State Agricultural Society -
New York State Library-.-...--.-.-.-.---
New York State Museum of Natural
1alR WAY Seae ccoces co se bacs AmeHoous
New York State University---.-.-...-

Young Men’s Christian Association -.

Brooklyn:
Mayor of the City of Brooklyn..-...-.
Mercantile Library Association .--- --
Young Men’s Christian Association... -

Buffalo:
Buffalo Society of Natural Sciences... -
Medical and Surgical Journal...-.----.
Young Men’s Christian Association -. -
Clinton :
Hamilton College Observatory ..-.-- -

Hoboken :

Stevens Institute of Technology. ---.
Ithaca:

CornellWniversitiy ees seca eee
New York:

American Bible Society ...--.--------

American Chemist - Diaeisteals
American Geographical and Statistical
Socletvaceaes-ee eae eee
American Tnstittites ince
American Museum of Natural History
American Society of Civil Engineers-
Anthropological Institute of New York
Apprentices’ Library -
ASOD UDA jcc. eee oon ee eeee=
Board of Health - :
Board of Missions of the Protestant
Episcopal Chureh-- Peat
Chamber of Commerce... ..
Columbia College... -.--
Cooper Inatibnte eae nt: Sere
Dermatological Society -.---.----.---
Engineering and Mining Journal .--.
International Review

No.

—
Re sb 0D

Niw Yorx—Continued. No.
New York:

Institute for the Blind .-.-.----...-. q
Lyceum of Natural History.------..-.- 105
Manufacturer and Builder....--..-.. 8
Mayor of the City of New York.----. Lt
Medicalivonrnalia2s-e-eeo see e eles L
Mercantile Eibrary, --- 2525 -- eee 3
Metropolitan Museum of Art-.-...---- 2
Microscopical Socieby.-e-.-6r =e
Numismatic and Archeological Soci-

Oly ta cece eciensaate -oebee cine cae i
New York Academy of Me dicine sesee =
New Yorker Handels-Zeitung .------ t
New Verk Heraldcres sesmee- scene 1
New York Historical Society ....-.--- t
New York Hungarian Society ..---- - L
Observatory, Central Park .-.....--.- 3
SanitablaNeaa sees sects eer eee 12
School of Miness22 se sess see eeeeee 6
Superintendent of Insurance Depart-

Ments-<2 2) sass sca ee eee 3
Swedish and Norwegian Consulate... L
Torrey Botanical Club -.-.-...---.-- 1
United States Sanitary Commission... 7
Universityeo eens eeeces asker 6:
Young Men’s Christian Association... L
Young Men’s Christian Association,

(German) Mestss-oe-ce oe eee i

Poughkeepsie :

Vassar College<-<- 222. <> 2-- cs e-== h
Sing Sing:

State Lunatic Asylum ~-.-......-.-. i

Statelerison) tec eeees eee eee eae L
Wards Island:

Emigrants’ Refuge and Hospital...- - i
West Point:

President of the Committee of Engi-

NeeLs=.:.<. serene se see eee eeeoe eee ee

Willard :
Willard Asylum for Insane ....--.- -- V4
OHIO.
Cincinnati:
Astronomical Observatory..-..------ 26
Historical and Philosophical Society.
Longview Asylum for Insane .----. -- L
Mayor of the City of Cincinnati----- 1
Medical College ofiOhig Jee eeeeeee. 1
Mercantile Library wan sae aaseseeks = 2
Ohio Mechanics’ Institute ......----- L
Public ibranyses=- eee ee 3
Columbus :
Geological Survey of Ohio....---.-.- 4
Ohio State Board of Agriculture..... 59
Statesbibratyine = os eee eet 13
North Bend :
Ohio State Horticultural Society...-. 1
PENNSYLVANIA.
Alleghany:
Alleghany Observatory ..--.-------- 4&
EXCHANGES.

Packages received by the Smithsonian Institution, de.—Continued,

PENNSYLVANIA—Continued. No.
Danville:
State Hospital for the Insane.....-.-- 1

Easton:
American Institute of Mining Engi-

NEGOIS == 2-2 = Reveeian ser oie eeccesy 9 | L
Lafayette Colle ee. PPE e ests Oe erates ereie ne I
Harrisburgh :
Statesitbraryoes---.--5.---siceeccss5 2
State Lunatic Hospital.......-..--.. 1
Philadelphia:
Academy of Natural Sciences..--.... 194

Agricultural Society of Philadelphia, 1
American Entomological Society .... 12
American Institute of Architects .... 3
American Journal of Conchology.--. 2
American Pharmaceutical Association
American Philosophical Society..-.-.
Board of Public Education... -....-.-.-
Central High School
Collece ofsPhysicians)--.-6- a2 si)5 =
Eastern State Penitentiary..........
Brankdin dnstitutess-s--6 s--ec -2-
Girardi@ollese=seca.s-seae toss a
FISTOnICAUSOCIObY see eesttecte eee ae
Jefferson Medical College .....-..-.-
hibranyCompanye ner sesicoceim soccer
Mayor of the City of Philadelphia-. --
Medical Society of Pennsylvania..---

©

RWS WH OE ORE eB

Medical@limese sass eeaceeee ee BiSeseeg|
Pennsylvania Hospital Library .-----
Society for Alleviating the Miseries of
Bublichhrisonss.C2s52c-ss-cocesoee) iL
University of Pennsylvania...-..... 1
Wagner Free Institute of Science.... 15
AGOOLICA SOCICUY) --eeieeea eee eee) te
Pittsburgh:
Western Penitentiary...--.......... 1

RHODE ISLAND.

Providence:
ANDER Zbl pe Sooenases Cee aS Sth Be 1
Brown Universityine- s+. ccesesoe eee ee
Rhode Island Historical Society ....- 2

SOUTH CAROLINA.

Charleston :
Charleston Library Society...-...... 2
Elliott Society of Natural History... 7

Columbia:

University of South Carolina....-.... 1
TEXAS,

Austin:

State Lunatic Asylum......-...-...-.. 1
Chappell [Till :

HOULoMUMiVersluy- ee -eeee scene ee oe 3

VERMONT.

Bristol:

Orleans County Society of Natural

Selene a shan ee ssi sae es asco 24

VERMONT—Continued. No.
Burlington:

University of Vermont...-...----..- 1
Montpelier:

SbateWeiDLany.<- oe. eeeee eno Syne
Young Men’s Christian Association .. - 1
VIRGINIA.

Charlottesville :

UMiversity OL Vile alec soiree df
Lynchbur gh:

Young Men’s Christian Association... 1
Richmond;

Srapemalb Lan yeasts ese cists ieee 2

Young Men’s Christian Association... 1
Williamsburgh:

Eastern Lunatic Asylum...........- 2

WISCONSIN.

Janesville:

Wisconsin Institution for the Blind.. 1
Madison:

State Board of Agriculture...-.....- itt

Wisconsin Academy of Sciences, Arts,

and Wetters?=.2 5-252 5-28-s aoe. 14

Wisconsin State Agricultural Society. 32

Young Men’s Christian Association... 1
Milwaukee :

Young Men’s Christian Association... 1
Neenah:

Scandinavian Library Association.... 1
Oshkosh :

Northern Hospital for the Insane..... 1

BRITISH AMERICA.

Charlottetown, Prince Edward Islané :

Lunatic Asylum
Fredericton, New Brunswick :
Geological Survey of New Brunswick.
Halifax, Nova Scotia:
Nova Scotian Institute of Natural Sci-
CNIGOS ASS ee eke ne en oe ees

Kingston, Ontario:
Botanical Society of Canada..-...---
Queens Collevens.- spas sneer t

London, Ontario :
London Asylum for Insane...... ....

Montreal, Quebec:
Geological Survey of Canada...... --
McGill College
Meteorological Observatory.-.----.----
Natural History Society........--...

Quebec, Quebec:
Astronomical Observatory
Literary and Historical Society

Ottawa, Ontario:

, Library of Parlianient-.-....-..-----

—

re 0

—
95

EXCHANGES.

Packages received by the Smithsonian Institution, &e.—Continued.

British AMERICA—Continued.

St. John’s, New Brunswick :
Natural History Society-.---.-..----.-
St. John’s, Newfoundland:
Geological Survey of Newfoundland.
Toronto, Ontario:
Canadian Entomological Society. ---.
CanadianiInstitute 2s. .-------.-2- 2.
House of Assembly
Literary and Historical Society ----..
Magnetical and Meteorological Obser-
vatory
MRorontonGlobers seuss. Ge sae uSeeee
University of Toronto.........

INDIVIDUALS.

MeO TC Se oh emir assis yo sae yoreten
INCASE, SE LOTs Acre sic seiste soe Sa secio oe

Pilon ilee tyros Seay ety

Althorf, Dr.
AUVOLG Bea ceniaseok ce csen ce eclecne eet
Ames, Miss M. E. Pulsifer..--.......-
AM OOrEn AG, Wiccas scale ceaes ase cteton
AMG MON Yarden Crease em eae ceeisersicee ice
Appleton dy (COsssaeasn- seers eee
Atlee, Dr. W. D
Aras bin | Caen eae eos eeeetacr ce Sc ose
Baird, Prof.$
BS alard gine net seieen cee ais ose ee
Bancrotu, Om Geese o cces seers
parmanrd,) (ls < crs cree cienet=

Barnes, Surgeon- -General J. K......--
Barnes ELON Wis ccieciccees Seo cee sell
Barrick, DEE soceweoeet spe eeet cee ise
Bartlet eon: phen e Vase eee
Bebb, M.S
pel PRE ects eee ece Oe eee ete eee

Bessel s: MTB Ss osene soe oe ons
Bethune wea. J. Seeceros seco ceee
BUM SSM oe ctetnas -o eye en en cbiiseeoe

Billings, Dr. JS
Binney WW. .Geeese osseee-
Blan dae s eise ies nsec
IBNISS Rs aeeee see eeee oc etoaee
ign Reb Mus reer ae eee

IBTOWStCL eMPSs dd) saae ooo ae ee
BLOWN AGH \cc= 2 25 3b. oem seme ee me

IBTOSH Mw ErOIG ide eeeees eee eee
Bucknell, R. E., Lieut
Wanye Witness so ssaiewae sone a eee
CarpenterIPrBiss2ces cn sesisse- ones
Chandler! Drs =-- Ss casoe eee
Chickering rot wJewWiresses eee
Cutt EAS o aise = cee ee a= ances

seewes eu et cece

No.

ll ll ll eel ee WOM WO CS oP)

3

Ll ell ee OR OR Oe oe

IypDivipuaLs—Continued. No.

Coffin Profane C caso eee eee 3
Colvin; \Visecsien ett cc cote ee eae 1
Cope son mE yD Nees Sa: ee ieee Eee aS
Coues Dre ss2 sees eee ene ae eee 10
Cox ph Wye eee oc onic c es Sao eee 5
Cummimesi Miso. ..5 soe ee eee 1
Curtis; rite. tose s see ea eee 2
DasCostasDiase.. a: ce-c eee 1
Dall WEL see seve ok aurea peepee 24
Dana, erofvd (Dass cee tenes 32
Da VICS HO ese set scene. cee ane 1
Davis. Miss JN senses ose com ec eeee i
Dawson; Profs J. IW 7222 -cteceee ces O1
Delaney, J.- ee a een nm (IL
Dike Cassar ae eee see ee eee 1
IDObSOnZJaAMeS 2 fe oalee-ee Cee Eee 1
Dobson} Johnie eess seas een eee il
Pe Cone See Seance eee 1
Dow, Capi. Ji Mia -e in, aes e ees 5
Dowler, B neck obsessions eerie 1
Doyle, Lieut.-Gen. Sir Leo eeeeeesce. rl
Draper; Dr. clio. cenceecee saeco ase 8
Dutton; CaptiC. Bese= oa .eeee eee 4
Hads; Jo Be ncecsse ac acces ase eckeee see 1
Haton,, ProtiD Cie. os. -seer eee cee 2
Eton, sHOn a icaaseeoeee eco ee eee 1
Bastian) serofvd eke ssa see sees 1
Wdwards). Wier. c-2 <0 er Goer 2
Helestonvibrot lio. sees eeeeen eee 1
Pllobty iG o.sckec= cee cee 4
Elliot, hs Bosse nsecsosee seo eateeeeree 1
Ott Ele Wisecon eee en sce eee 1
Mis; i vBice eee amen ee oeeemine il
imersons | ProlyDeasse- sees eee ee 1
Emmet; Drie. i. scaccencas see roceeee 1
Emalhich yD rok Mie seer ee eee nae 1
Rngelnian, DriGe ean. ajase eas
Evans, Prot bekseee ee aoe ee 1
Pay, S.caa=svears ooaissselscessesenecee 1
Berrel;, Wicos- cases sacmieaoe meres 4
Fisher, IDEM Gis esas ss cmseee oer e 1
Fiss, COW e hae: Bae ee 1
Horeman, El. Wiese. w= -5)-5- saeeraee 1
Gale, Dr. Tie Dae ess boisnca Garten eas 1
Gardner, Proto nl an soe eee eee 1
Gibbons: Sr aWiebsssscee oss ee eee i
Gall, Drea ce 2 sisanss eee sees 11
Gnauvold (Drisa. 25 secke eee 1
Goode, Gs Bis sac, 255 eee eee eee 1
Graiy.pdetOleAtee eee ESine See oeer es 25
Greene; Revs Beis. 2 = one eer eee 3
Gross, DrS; Diiteeaes sane eee eee 2
Grote, A.B c2c2oocs--5 com sece reese 1
Guyot; Prot Agen <n acter a eee
Hacen: Prof. Jai is2: sana ss sees ee 2
Efall Verofeeaes een =e eee eee ee 3
1a PWD hs Olea an eroos se Aaa aac ele 1
Hall, Prof) 302s facings ae ce eee 13
Hamilton, Dr. F. H....--. Joe 1
Hammond Dr. Wii boss- occas eto ee
Harding t@ si) see ee ee eee 1
Harding is. sss nee aeceome ee 1
Hardind GaWisecesa- socmeetae seine 1
Harkness, Prof..< {ecce s<2n tae 1
Harper ds, BLOUNenS 2 - see eee 2
EXCHANGES.

Packages received by the Smithsonian Institution, &c.—Continued.

(is)
=~i

InDIViIpUALS—Continued. No.
ari erotic Mieeas = Bdagseton aeoo rE
Hawkins, | So CR Bene eee erercic
Hayden, Dr. ci Wi
Hedrick, Dr
Henry, Prof. 7 BREE Se Sate ciate Soseeels 2
TG OV Ns Boe ence esas caScsatnS
Higgins, D. F
len oharhiss the s\aooune capo seanacesedors
Hilgard, Dr. E.
Hilgard, [EO fe Vol Digcaeus souesoHeosue
Hill, G. W
Pimrprehss ErotnGaasereene
Hettinger, J. W
Hitz, J
lalkGiaas, IDS se pecsude pe goso ObbubocS
Hough sree cssecewcoteccceaesceiae
FHoldeng Prof assscnsecos sao eeeeeee
Homans sheppal Geese sass acess
Eo ppine error ne Mises oa erste caterer
Horm Or G.wis cses sees cece =.cisee
Horns de.
ouch eb eeeeceee -coseneeae seat
Humphreys, Gens Au AN. eme cero aclas
amb Ore Suerny seine. ce else ieee ee ale 2
iy albbspk LOMA se 52 ecerscicis) coves facicates Pie
Jackson, Hieut: see cee asayreseectes 1
Jarvis, Dr.
Jewett, Ooh. WAS So Wester ata ceciee ae 2
Kennedy, Ju@nGies ss seees ceieee cence 1
King, Clarence
Kingston, G. T
Knapp, Dr. H
REGU ARS RE KG ae 20S oe Ea So ae eh
Koistondanlee Revie C ssacceon ee coeee
an gleyepProteacs se secs serine asaie os oe
Lawrence, G. N.
MaweOn bE rotdhess soos snce noac eee
Hea PISAAG Rete es meric ne seen ocsoee
er Contec Dri lus sesec naoee oer
zee Admiral SYP es has dsececs esos

+
c

bt et et tS et eS

©
~

‘
‘
'
'
.
'
'
'
—

Co eS OC WE Wt

_

BONOCRO’N DH BR QONE WR wd

een: J. S. SBE OCEINCHACCCOUT OEE Goo ren
oidyete rots inate otha ees. hoot
Lesley, Prof. J. P
Hesquercuxperotliessee eee eae es

Me wisspAtm meni Sees Woe skate cas a teclenne

MOOMmIsmErOlbmsasetsce ccseccee ce cen al
HOVELING SELOL) c= stccecce eset ce
HVAT DAS sas see he cass. scocewee
PVA Aes eves ea eke eRe 2
ICAU pin «Mpa en sare Sek as ed PY
WiCbeai yh iPeensesscosse ke. tlk
MOMASUET A neses foenensccns cele oe
MCMUBUTIO SWisses sac seecceh sek eaett
ManCOUW PTOL) saccce nce ee sees
TANG Henet Ota he Ate aes shee oat FS oe
MarshwerotOUGe las tees te Uk:
EASON EOL O: (hares cases cst LUST. S
Matile, Prof. G.
Matthew, G. F
MGek MEO i Bhi Bea s/seeo set oe uA S
Melos arya ss soe Te
Merlsay Gone © ess sees see soe stat
Milner, SEA icc ere epee te Reale ana
meicchell MinsiMe + <4. Se si On.

S. Mis. 115 7

eo

aoa

-
Ow

_

Avra ee eetaa se yeese tee

wo
Wer wWke Reo

wo

INDIVIDUALS—Continued.

Mitchell, Dr. S. Weir... --
Morcan Wi socnoase ae aenee seeeenee
Morris, Prof. G.S
Munn, A.. Bee ee ey
Myer, Brevet Brig. ‘Gen. A. Te SAP AA Be
Newberry, Dr. dic EE ee ee
Newcomb, oe darceiteys nee eae
Newcomb, Prof. S...---.-
Newton, H. A..
Oliphant, L..-.
Olmstead, Rev.
Osborne aWVircecee sen eee eee eee
Packard Ora oe seers aes
Palmer, Dr. E22...
Palmeryd) soeeseoieees
Ran coast Dimi eaeeteete eee eee
Parker yO riba see sce eee
Patberson, ed Wisse. saree eee ae
IPGATBON dls nacam Seca ee sien eee ee
eInCO Eloise ese
Peters, Prof. C. H. F
iRettersen wh ase se nce as eee eee eee
Philbrickidisccecsseeaes eee eee eee
Phillips Or Wis Atvenvrs oye yee
Roolkesih Sikceayeee sees eee erases
RoolesiWa asses socepeccscce nee
Pourlier, DD) PySe ee See ee ee ee

Bilee) C. Vv SS ERE RISES eh ei
Rivtlen wD re Jeane cee eee nee en
RODERISNG ease reer cee Cee ee
Rideway,, Roberbissssssse se seee eae s
IRODINSON se Wie eee See eee
RO MELS Wj ADS eye cee eee
RosenthalvaAy.c2e seseecace See eee
VOSS es Ate Mica At tek chin sme oe mie eee ye mes
RuselesaS.. Bice saccsoassect ce sees
Rutherford.) lia Meszsnsoccicc sacs
Sattord sya ele sea sce poe ee ee
Sty John WO Rees esas se seem ee
Salisbary,, Prof. By H).s2o22 52.8 sane
Waren, Probe... cond. sees oee ee

SchottwProt: CarAz sone sees ee eee
Schuster, M..
Scudder, S. H..-... Sieie elo evo eeietereeeoe
Seaman: Wi. (He. 125222 ease ees
Senborn) baroneeeseeeseeeeeeeeeeeee
DelwynyAs HC os 2 cee nee ene
Shepard, ProfssCyiV c2 -Beces cae
Silliman ero besseee eee eee eens
Sims Dr. Mice ete ae ees ee
Slater; ERuNeceneeecce cere ciss pale
Smithy Alo) hane" seen oe ee
Smith, Prof. Hamilton L.. :
Smith, Profile ae the ie
Snow, 1D yan Oe ESS Sees Mane ened PI
HPotord yA eee tess] Joe yee ee
SOUMLCL trey Geese See bors
Stirling, Prof Cais i aa At
Stone ELorOLeeeen ee ee

f=

—
PRS RE Se eH OR RE H Oe RE et ROH HE OHH HE

©

ee ae eet

me

WR WR RR wee Re ee to

—_

Nm Ow ew

-
-

Re pe
EXCHANGES.

. Packages received by the Smithsonian Institution, &c.—Continued.

INpDIvipuaLs—Continued.

Scape, 1EIGOS Wii aceon ocd wodas Ke565
Mathes Wot sce aoc eatenete seetesseie
aylor, Wr Ltt aseen
DayloreDire divs Wess ise
Thomas, Prof. Cyrus....-.-
“Mavoyonsvond ie laa-5- 5505 cago no madacee
Pietze; JOE (Biss saeco: sos oo ceases ee
Toner, ree Mea wees wees alesse
ERryoni | Gin Wise soenies aa Sais eects venins
Tuckerman ER otis. seeaieceeteee en
Wherry Rae Reacajescnceioss-eee
Vasey. Getanscoases csc ccc theese ees
WierntliRrotvAm Eon ccisisisc coer se
Miatsontebroti da saeco ce s1e/sit soe
Watson'gSeon.- es. =. ae 2
Wieed ena Wiibiscc-oeceo cee cise cree
NVesterm ann ssetec crane cts serie eteyeete
NWO a ler Oe en Sees aaa eae
Wilhteclerslieubsy GreWl cesmeeiecmeise eects

No.

—

WWE HW

GI
]

Lod

ss
S

eRe We woe

INDIVIDUALS—Continued.

Wiheeclerserok: scoeec stoner eee if
Wibite, Dry tA Sas. cacs asec sae
WihitewWiewte bin Cr ceme> sceeem eee
Wihttney,eerofi se Wr aces nasa seer
Wihitney,Prof.aw Di -2=-- saeco
Wallies se Atami alls © eh pe ape
Wilsons ID Ne=a2 es noecs see ene eee
Wanlockgbrotqdieaesss cee e eee
Wood, Dr dE iC 235 ot stracsaceee eee
Woodward, Dre J. Js-css5-
Wwiwoalwrori, IDies dig Wile SSsh5sancccen
WiorthenipAsvkle(se2 cr snech coerce
Wilts Witewscas sic Sees ecerseeere
Wyman,Commodore R. H...----...-.
Wiates; ali G-series ae erteeice
Varrow, WOrHi@i ac o22 eee ae eee
Mounc wero fC relma eee ere eee
Wouns) (Co Bi scecemoeteeieceieeeeeree

—y
CRORE RH ROHR HR ote

—

RECAPITULATION.

Motalead dressestofeInstlcuhlOnGeaases eee ee case eee Oe eee eee eee
Motalsaddressesofandividual seem eeeoesereeeee ee eee eee eee

Rotalenumberiofsparcels tonnstitunionssseess=-a-eisaoe see ne eeieee ee = eee

Total number of parcels to individuals

ee ee ee ee ee tee tee

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS OF THE BOARD OF REGENTS
OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION.

WASHINGTON, D.C., January 19, 1876.

In accordance with a resolution of the Board of Regents of the Smith-
sonian Institution, fixing the time of the beginning of their annual meet-
ing on the third Wednesday in January of each year, the Board met
to-day, at 7 o’clock p. m.

Present, Chief-Justice Waite, Chancellor of the Institution; Hon. T.
W. Ferry, acting Vice-President of the United States; Hon. J. W.
Stevenson, Hon. A. A. Sargent, Hon. H. Clymer, Hon. B. H. Hill, Hon.
G. W. McCrary, Rev. Dr. John Maclean, Hon. Peter Parker, Hon.
George Bancroft, and Professor Henry, the Secretary.

The Chancellor took the chair.

The Secretary presented the following communication :

FORTY-FOURTH CONGRESS, FIRST SESSION.

CONGRESS OF THE UNITED STATES,
In the House of Representatives, December 14, 1875.
The Speaker appointed the following-named members Regents of the
Smithsonian Institution on the part of the House:
Mr. Hiester Clymer, of Pennsylvania.
Mr. Benjamin H. Hill, of Georgia.
Mr. George W. McCrary, of Iowa.
Attest : GEO. M. ADAMS, Clerk.

A letter was read from Hon. H. Hamlin, stating that he was unavoid-
ably detained from attendance at this meeting.

The Secretary stated that he had the painful duty to announce the
death, since the last session of the Board, of the Hon. Henry Wilson,
Vice-President of the United States.

On motion of Dr. Parker, it was

Kesolved, That a committee of three be appointed to prepare resolu-
tions expressing the sentiments of the Board in regard to the death of
Hon. Henry Wilson.

The Chancellor appointed Hon. Dr. Parker, Hon. T. W. Ferry, and
Hon. J. W. Stevenson.

The Secretary presented a general exhibit of the condition of the
fund, and the receipts and expenditures for the year 1875; which was
referred to the Executive Committee.

Dr. Parker, from the Executive Committee, stated that, in order to
99
100 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS.

save time, the committee had already examined all the vouchers and
accounts of the Institution and of the National Museum, with the ex-
ception of eleven, which had been paid since the first of January, and
was prepared to make a partial report, and that a full report would be
made at the next meeting. He accordingly presented a statement of
the receipts and expenditures, of the accounts examined, and a history
of the funds, reserving until the next meeting the remainder of the
report.

The Secretary gave an account of the method of keeping the accounts,
drawing checks, &c., and showed the necessity of making up the annual
statements of receipts and expenditures to include the semi-annual in-
terest due on the 1st of January, but which this year had not been
received from the Treasury Department until the 16th of January.

The Secretary also presented, for the information of the new mem-
bers, a general account of the operations of the Institution, and the
plans which had been adopted to carry out the will of Smithson * to in-
crease and diffuse knowledge among men.”

The Board then adjourned to meet on Wednesday, 26th January, at
7 o’clock.

WASHINGTON, D. C., January 26, 1876.

A meeting of the Board of Regents was held this day, at 7 o’clock
p- m., in the Regent’s room of the Smithsonian Institution.

Present, Chief Justice Waite, Chancellor of the Institution; Hon. T.
W. Ferry, acting Vice-President of the United States; Hon. H. Hamlin,
Hon. A. A. Sargent, Hon. H. Clymer, Hon. B. H. Hill, Hon. Peter Parker,
Hon. George Bancroft, Professor Asa Gray, Professor Henry Coppée,
and the Secretary, Professor Henry.

The minutes of the last meeting were read and approved.

Excuses for non-attendance were presented from Hon. J. W. Steven-
son, Hon. G. W. McCrary, and Professor J. D. Dana.

Dr. Parker, from the special committee to prepare resolutions on the
death of the late Vice-President, Hon. Henry Wilson, presented the fol-
lowing report and resolutions, which, he stated, had the approval of all
the members of the committee :

Since the last annual meeting of the Board of Regents of the Smith-
sopian Institution, HENRY W1LsoN, Vice-President of the United States,
and an honored member of the Regency, having departed this life, the
Board deem it suitable that a just tribute to his memory and worth be
entered upon the records of the Institution: Therefore,

Resolved, That among the distinguished men of the first century of
our national existence who have been prominent for patriotism, practi-
cal wisdom, statemanship and high moral and Christian character, im-
partial history will assign Henry Wilson a distinguished rank; and as
a representative man of the class of ‘“ self-made men” to which the ver-
dict of mankind assigns exalted positions, the late Vice-President of
JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS. 101

the United States will long be remembered and highly appreciated by
posterity.

Resolved, That the Secretary cause a copy of these resolutions to be
transmitted to the relatives of the deceased.

Dr. Parker then made the following remarks :

Mr. Chancellor: Fitting encomiums upon the late Vice-President have
already been pronounced, both in the Senate and House of Representa-
tives of the United States, and, so far as I am informed, with an una-
nimity of appreciation, irrespective of all lines of demarkation, truly re-
markable; and the pen and the press, not only in this but also in every
civilized country, will set forth his just merits in appropriate panegyric.
Besides, this is neither the place nor the occasion for extended eulogy,
yet [ desire brief indulgence.

The late Vice-President was my personal friend, and the proximity of
our summer residences facilitated the exchange of social and friendly
intercourse. It was my privilege also to see him in his last illness.

The prominent characteristics of Mr. Wilson, his humble origin, indi-
gence, limited means of early education, the resolute determination by
which he surmounted difficulties and rose to great distinction ; his suc-
cess in the attainment of lofty aspirations, even surpassing some of his
contemporaries who had the greater advantages of classical and profes-
sional learning, are too well known to require repetition.

I wish, however, to recall very concisely only two of his distinguish-
ing traits.

As a means to an end, Mr. Wilson was emulous of high positions that
he might render it promotive of the best interests of the country, and of
all classes composing it, especially the poor and the enslaved.

Whilst sincere in his practice and advocacy of temperance, in his de-
nunciation of slavery, and his expressions of sympathy for the laborer,
he had the sagacity to use these as means to the attainment of the
coveted positions of high office and national influence. He was emulous
also of distinguished place not only for its utility in the present, but
still more so in reference to the future. I remember well his emphatic
remark when the intelligence was received of the death of the eminent
historian Prescott: ‘I had rather live, as Prescott will live, in history,
than be President of the Uuited States.”

Here may be found, I think, the predominating influence that urged
him on in the completion of his historical work ; with an all-absorbing
devotion that far exceeded his physical and mental strength, and but
for which, humanly speaking, he might be with us still.

The other prominent characteristic to which I wish simply to advert
is, in his later years, his truly religious life. No one intimately ac-
quainted with Mr. Wilson subsequently to his public profession of re-
ligion can doubt the genuineness of his Christian faith.

The hymn which he rose from his sick-pillow to mark at three o’clock
in the morning, only a few hours before breathing his last, as though
102 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS.

preadmonished his end had come, entitled “ The Christian and his echo,”
may be regarded as a true exponent of his religious character, and as
his last legacy to the country and the world—

“ True faith producing love to God and man.”

The resolutions submitted by the committee were then adopted unani-
mously by arising vote.

Dr. Parker, in behalf of the Executive Committee, presented the an-
nual report of the receipts, expenditures, estimates, &c.; which, on
motion of Mr. Sargent, was adopted.

The Secretary presented his annual report of the operations of the
Institution for the year 1875; which was read, and various suggestions
contained in it were discussed at some length by the members of the
Board.

On motion of Dr. Gray, it was

Resolved, That a special committee of three be appointed to take into
consideration the connection of the Smithsonian Institution and the
National Museum, and to recommend such action as may be thought
proper in relation to the matter.

The Chancellor appointed Messrs. Gray, Clymer, and Sargent as the
committee.

The report of the Secretary as to what the Smithsonian institution
was doing and had done in relation to the Centennial Exhibition in
Philadelphia was read.

On motion of Mr. Hamlin, it was

Resolved, That the annual report of the Secretary be accepted, and be

transmitted to Congress, as usual.
On motion of Mr. Sargent, it was

Resolved, That the salary of the chief clerk of the Institution be twen-

ty-five hundred dollars per annum, commencing with the present year.
On motion of Mr. Clymer, it was

Resolved, That the Secretary be authorized to procure a carriage for
the use of the Institution, for a sum not to exceed four hundred dollars.

The Board then adjourned to meet at the call of the Secretary.
REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE.

The executive committee of the Board of Regents respectfully submit
tke following report in relation to the funds of the Institution, the
appropriations by Congress for the support of the National Museum,
tae receipts and expenditures for both of these departments for the
year 1875, and the estimates for the year 1876:

FINANCES.
Statement of the condition of the funds at the beginning of the year 1876.

Jhe amount originally received as the bequest of James

Smithson, of England, deposited in the Treasury of the

United States in accordance with the act of Congress of

PEE US USO POLO cial Pape ere clos one cers bial ae a jteera eee $515, 169 00
The residuary legacy of Smithson, received in 1865, depos-

ited in the Treasury of the United States, in accordance

with the act of Congress of February 8, 1867.......... 26,210 63
otal bequest Of SmMIbhSOM en. se. <5 6.5 joins ewe 541, 379 63

Amount deposited in the Treasury of the United States,
as authorized by act of Congress of February 8, 1867,
derived from savings of income and increase in value of

GSS Ms te Ogos ee Sones ae CU BOEO: Epo aE DO ReSnoaEe 108, 620 37
Amount received as the bequest of James Hamilton, of
Canuslenia. Hepruaty 24. 1S 14 2. sevens stereos Sas 1,060 00

Total permanent Smithson fund in the Treasury of the

United States, bearing interest at 6 per cent., payable

SOmMcAn Malye iM COMM. <a) sep aoe iaeststseisiaiai= whe ood oyaisvnrniate 651, 000 00
In addition to the above there remains of the extra fund

from savings, &¢., in Virginia bonds and certificates,

viz: consolidated bonds, $58,700; deferred certificates,

$29,375.07 ; fractional certificate, $50.13; total, $88,125.20,

AVON ipWMLULC UE AU ste Se) afee Nev ckn et efor aya) at ote = oi n! alas ais oy AAT Aoiclate 42, 000 00
Cash balance in the United States Treasury at the begin-
ning of the year 1876, for current expenses............ 20, 505 82

Amount due from First National Bank, $2,056.22, (value
? 3 ?
UO) SOY) ces OR AG AOE CIE OEIC CMRI TED ole) fe aa an Se a

Total Smithson funds 20th January, 1876 ......-..- 713,555 82
104 REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE.
Statement of the receipts and expenditures during 1875:
RECEIPTS.

Interest on $650,000 from the United States, 6 per cent.,

QU MeeeeObedsss coos oDSboagaonao Socses S05 Seadeeos $39, 000 00
Premium on above June 30, 1875, at 116),, $3,107.81; and

January 1, 1876, at 11213, $2,474.07, (less commission) - - 5, 581 8$
Interest on Virginia bonds, coupons sold June 14 and De-

Canilyerd ailb JUS) AS RASS hae ag Seokoo nose Sodesme coecad 4,750 1L

Dividend from First National Bank, 10 per cent., May 5,
1875, $822.48; and 15 per cent., December 27, 1875,

DUCE BHC) Soh oIMoe Bik GlelS Stay te cits cisjetle tafe etoeeeeleeese seine 2,056 21

PAT OUING sya) eo setae aol stare sie Nae CP e ite oh meroee 51, 388 2¢
EXPENDITURES.

Total expenditure from the Smithson income in 1875....- 46, 809 98

5

Balance unexpended of the annual income, which is in-
cluded in the cash balance in the Treasury, ($20,555.82) .. 4,578 22

HAMILTON BEQUEST.

By the will of the late James Hamilton, of Carlisle, Pa., the sum
of one thousand dollars was left to the Institution, the interest of
which was to be expended biennially for the advance of knowledge.
This bequest was received on the 24th of February, 1874, from the ex-
ecutors of Mr. Hamilton, and to secure its safe investment the money
was immediately deposited by Professor Henry in the Treasury of the
United States, (see Smithsonian Report for 1873, page 159,) on the same
terms as the original bequest of Smithson, in accordance with the act
of Congress of February 8, 1867, which authorizes the increase of the
permanent fund to a sum not exceeding one million dollars.

The following is a statement of the interest received on the Hamilton
bequest, which will be appropriated in accordance with the terms of the
will:

Interest on $1,000 from February 24, 1874, to December 31,

1 (: Seer ae co ee em ase oly Sam S = A $50 85
Interest from January 1, 1875, to December 31, 1875, 6
per Cent.1N:COIN).).n6 3. bs eect «,- ceo eeeee ee $60 00
Premium at 112138, less commission ....-........--- (fee!
——_— 67 ‘G1

118 49
REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE.

VIRGINIA BONDS.

Previous to the year 1867, the savings from the income of the Insti-
tution were invested in State stocks, as shown in the following table:

105

Cost Jan., | Sold Feb., ee

Amount. | Rate. 1857, 1867. Gain. Loss.
Indiana 5 per cent. bonds.......--....-- $75, 000 00 84 | $63, 000 00 | $68, 906 25 |$5, 906 25 |..-..-.-.---
Tennessee 6 per cent. bonds..-......--- 15, 000 00 94 | 11,167 50 49:}586) 78 lesan sues $1,580 72
Georgia 6 per cent. bonds .........-.-- 500 00 | 100 500 00 Shits) Mone Shoe 141 29
WwW ashington 6 per cent. bonds......--. 100 00 | 100 100 00 IO) Bapechacad||s-caccacas
90, 600 00 }..---- | 74, 767 50 78, 95L 74 | 5,906 25 1, 722 Ol
iNeticaineee. =. Se8e6esHOCOSacReb8 Bebacsossoad lceoscn |Saccocersssad eesosopecees 45184) 240 Pe esacetee
Worciniaiomearcentes-csceceesc soccer sec 53, 500 00 CBy |) ES GED UMM ooeeseecaod| booooouoeallacoScobocde

In accordance with the authority given in the act of Congress of
February 8, 1867, to increase the Smithson fund in the United States
Treasury, the regents disposed of all the State stocks held by the Insti-
tution as shown above, with the exception of the Virginia bonds, which
were at the time so low that it was thought advisable to retain them,
with the expectation that they would enhance in value, which expecta-
tion has been realized. The following table, however, shows that the
value of these bonds has fluctuated:

MSGR Les aise re Oe PSI CORON Oe asc es Se . 35, 500
LETS keene et ae SOOOOS BT. caw Nos aceee eee 37, 000
Ca ne AOSOUSN PAS GA Cees Lune Seay 33, 000
STORE eee eet ee ADP OOO STE eae ee Oe ee 35, 000
1570s ee US QUO ISTE eck m ea yor (uncle 42, 000

Under the provisions of an act of the legislature of Virginia, of 30th
March, 1871, the accumulated interest on these bonds was funded by
the State; that is, the interest was added to the principal, and for two-
thirds of the increase new bonds were issued, and certificates of indebt-
edness were given for the remaining one-third.

These funds are, therefore, of two classes, one known as “ consolidated
bonds,” due from the State of Virginia, and the other as “ deferred cer-
tificates,” the payment of which is reserved until an adjustment is made
between the States of Virginia and West Virginia as to the settlement
of the State debt prior to their separation.

The income which the Institution has received from this source is en-
tirely from the sale of the coupons of the consolidated bonds.

The bonds and certificates now belonging to the Institution are as
follows:

Consolidated bonds.

58 bonds, Nos. 11521 to 11578 inclusive, for $1,000 each.

AED NG SOU OL BO00! scraiscsdetec'ec a's tele otaets ss 500 00
2 bonds, Nos. 4191 and 4192, for $100 each....-........- 200 00

58, 700 00
(These bonds are deposited in the Treasury of the United
States.)
106 REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE.
Deferred certificates.

Won4045, Gated i illyad SMa ret een tet ae esate arin erat $29, 375 07
INGE 9G Oe ck aioe: occ Soe etdare te retatera a etetnie orate epebereteaya este rere terete 50 13
(These certificates are in charge of Messrs. Riggs & Co.)

Total par value of Virginia securities .-.........-... 88,125 20

The State of Virginia has made only partial provision to pay the in-
terest on its debt, but, as the coupons of the consolidated bonds are
receivable for taxes, they have a commercial value, and were sold, by
direction of the Institution, during the year by Messrs. Riggs & Co., as
follows:

Coupons on $58,700, due July 1, 1874, and January 1, 1875; sold June
14, 1875:

CoLOOOMALOUser coast ae ec ec sets cle eerat $2, 685 00
ORO Pat SOF ocak ccs 2's fs A See eee rene setae 457 73
3, 142 73
Less 4 per cent. commission .....-..--.... 17 5a
3,125 18
12, at 893, less commission ............. 10 68
a $3,135 86
3,522
Coupons on $58,700, due July 1, 1875; sold 31st Decem-
ber, 1875
HUN AOU AL OA: erRine ati ciala) -1aisielctele <reisielstoleicieteias $1,488 04
Less 4 per cent. commission.... ...-.- 8 80
— 1,479 24
In addition to the above, the Institution had in its posses-
sion coupons for one-third the interest due on the Ist ot
January and Ist of July, 1872, amounting to $1,174, the
remaining two-thirds ($2,348) having been collected by
Riggs & Co. and sold for the Institution, according to their
statement of November 9, 1872. (See Smithsonian Report
for 1872, page 81.) This amount, $1,174, above referred to,
was sold by Riggs & Co. on fe 14th June, 1875, with the
following result :
EMA? at WD). care ote ek aon coca cei <6 cee or) 88
IG@SS (COMMISSION Soe oe. ise le tee rec 5 87
—— 135 O01

Total amount realized from sale of Virginia coupons in
1 oN to ene ea ea ae eee a ear ea nlc Sec ryaBmePE Sry cna tg ae 4,750 11

~~

There still remain unsold the coupons on the $58,700 bonds due Ist
January, 1876.
REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE. 107

FIRST NATIONAL BANK DEPOSIT.

At the time of the suspension of the First National Bank, of Wash-
ington, (19th September, 1873,) in which the current funds had been
deposited by direction of the board, there were $8,224.87 to the credit
of the Institution. The following dividends have been received on this
deposit :

Jig BOT IMG 1k SID ies Coty Gascon oo esecumocdedopede ----- $2, 467 46
my AGUAS eA ie eh Soo Gongcneece Se eso[ boos me sec 1, 644 97
Soy MaeelO (Os tO eT COM br wierarscieteyets terete (oles ier syala\epeieyais. eis 822 48
ab, GAY IDS Deis. Ik (WSO CsN Ui ooo oso sen se nec so dnensoundeda 1, 233 73
75 6,168 64

iheavineya balance Still Que Ofer s.sis sje -tiei nie cioiersio ai 2,056 23

STATEMENT OF EXPENDITURES IN DETAIL FROM THE
SMITHSON INCOME, 1875.

Building.
Repairs and improvements. .5-)2).5 5-2-0 <. $1, 802 94

EMT GUO An GG UTESe se. ors Sane ele oi ote ea eels io miocke ALG,
$2, 215 11

Meetingstof the board: 2% 562 s.s55<sacesee saess $227 25
PighitimethelouilGin ss sec acs cis terrae cene ere Se 792 25
Heating the. buildings s-i2.6.cs25 Jess sce deee ese 953 30
OSE A LO ha cisiereiers sie eisict eich Se eels Seed ces ceiae ates 366 25
RDA SIOMOI Ys «tet oe aoclale ss esen ce ae Wiese eisicie wale 413 56
Incidentals, ice, brushes, insurance, soap, tele-

CRATIS MG Chys tairn ne a sie = a] amie ae eater nerearee 836 08
Salaries and clerke-Mine@ css ss 5 5 sixes 2/2 rapes s sieiea os = 13, 161 50
Purchase of books and periodicals.............. 203 37

— 16,953 56

Publications, researches, &e.

Smithsonian Contributions... .....-......---.-- 12,518 31
Miscellaneous collections). ...:..-22..2.202.2.6.%0 288 45
Annual report, (illustrations and translations).... 1,453 26
Meteorology and researches... ......-:...-..... 1,432 72
PRAGUE eapale eteyaiciet mici5e, © oi keteye ae o's clove) aol Reese 235 60
Nia DOWALOU eee ees = he 5 See ae he oa) in oa SS ees 41 72
ROC URULE Seems Wart aere fares 2 ie epefaic lai) ayaa ateiaad aston 400 00

16, 370 06

|
108 REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE.
Hachanges.
Literary and scientific international exchanges ........-...- 6, 748 80

Museum.

Expenditures in addition to the Government ap-

ORY OHIO Sagoo seehdsonsomsonsoccs 22500554 1,908 45
Advanced for construction of laboratory of natural

JAM WO ARE Bute cS dosS Gu enbeBecoaHsbo cess bedoon 2,614 00

Total expenditure from the Smithsonian income in 1875.. 46,809 98

The Institution, as in former years, has made temporary advances for
the payment of freight on Government collections, &c., the repayments
of which, together with the amount received from sales of the publica-
tions of the Institution, have been deducted from the several items of
the foregoing expenditure, as follows:

Repayments.
From exchanges, repayments for freight, &c .....-....---- $1,097 OL
From postage, repayments. .-..-...----- -.-d-0e eee oe eon 31 23
rom) TESeALCHES, FEPa ya OM lm. wise ete eee ale eielel= wlio 98 37
From Smithsonian Contributions, sales.......-.....-...-.- 181 09
From miscellaneous collections, sales.......----.---------- 648 43
From reports, sales... . 022+ 12-0 0.c0 eens eon e eee nee ena 7 50
From incidentals, sales of old material........-..--------- 16 12
From cost of books, repayment........----- Ran oon abads 7 75
From museum, repayment of advances........------+----- 2,676 05
4,763 55
Estimates.

The following are the estimates of receipts and appropriations of the
Smithson fund for the year 1876:

Estimated receipts.

Interest on the permanent fund, receivable 30th

‘uiiven ite pastel ro) (6lhaes booon cusaos saGneccde oc $19, 500
Interest on the permanent fund, receivable 31st

December, 1876, in gold-. 2-25... 2-- -.-2------ 19, 500
Interest on the Hamilton fund..........-.-..--- 60
Probable premium on gold, 10 per cent.-..-..--- 3, 906
interestion Virsinia bonds: 25-1. -eeasesen see 2, 500

$45, 466

REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE. 109

Provisional appropriations.

LENO pe | 21000 C0 UNE ee ee a ie ale Ra a eye $2, 000
Gig Cemerdle Ox Pe Maes ereielratem mesa. a aatarccels Soe ae 14, 000
For publications and researches ............-.-- 20, 000
HOtEe RENAN OCS terete satanic) afar to e551 cterescia ciale erties Sse 7, 000
Korbooks andvapparatus) ss a2-1ectac ih se a2 abe 1, 000
NOP CONTIMBENELES serene si cieiete erect aie micleia cian 3 1, 466

NATIONAL MUSEUM.

The National Museum still continues to be in charge of the Smith-
sonian Institution, Congress making an appropriation annually of $20,000
for the care and preservation of the collections.

The number of specimens is, however, every year increasing from the
public surveys and explorations, and the sum appropriated by Congress
has never been sufficient to meet the demand for their proper care and
exhibition. During the past year it has been found necessary to erect
an additional building for the use of the Museum taxidermists and pho-
tographer, toward the expense of which $2,614 have been advanced
from the Smithson income. In addition to this, $1,908.45 were also
required to meet the current expenses of the Museum, making a total
of $4,522.45 expended during the present year from the Smithson income
beyond the appropriation by Congress tor the Museum.

The appropriation made by Congress for fitting up the halls has been
expended in the construction of additional walnut table-cases with glass
tops and sides, for the exhibition of ethnological specimens.

At the session of the Board of Regents, January 23, 1875, a resolution
was adopted to request Congress to make an appropriation of $2,500 to
increase the heating capacity of the apparatus used to warm the rooms
occupied by the Government collections.

The subject was presented to the appropriate committees of Congress
and the desired appropriation was granted without dissent. After esti-
mates had been procured, a contract was made with the firm of Baker,
Smith & Co., of New York, to substitute larger boilers and pipes for
those then in use, and the work has been satisfactorily accomplished for
the amount of the appropriation.

The following is a tabular statement of the condition of the Museum
funds:

Balance unexpended of appropriation for preservation of

the Government collections, for the fiscal year ending 30th

June 187d, (Statutes for 1874, p. 216). . wie. je ens « $7, 988 62
Expenditure from January 1, 1875, to July 1, 1875. (Museum

Sa eNEDE TTA ee enerem ppl eS) [os ects Sek es aos aa Stn sh ocet SI haa eres 2 mye 7,988 62

110 REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE.

Appropriation for the fiscal year ending 30th June, 1876.
(Digest of Appropriations, 1876, p. 105.)

For preservation of collections...-.....-------- $20, 000 00
Hor fitting yp mew Walisre sce. «see reer 10, 000 00
For completing heating apparatus .....-.-..-- 2,500 00 —

$32, 500 00
Expenditure from July 1, 1875, to December 31,1875. (Mu-
gseum Journal A, p. 163) ---....-.------- s--sleco--2 sees 22, 881 32

Balance unexpended << ..- 2. 222-7 = 2 ejewie = eee oie = $9, 618 68
Required for the six months ending 30th June, 1876.

The estimates submitted by the Institution to Congress for appropri-
ations for the fiscal year ending 30th June, 1877, were as follows:

For preservation of the collections of the surveying and ex-

ploring expeditions of the Government ....-.------.--- $25, 000 00 7
For fitting up apartments for mounting and photographing

SPC CIMIONS. aiejo mela bislore-teleicle fowieisig eter jslasi esis 5,000 00

. 30, 000 00

This sum is $5,000 less than the amount asked for the previous year.

All the payments on account of the National Museum have been
made, during the past year, directly by the disbursing-oflicer of the
Department of the Interior on the presentation of vouchers approved
by the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution.

SUMMARY.

The Executive Committee have examined five hundred and ninety-
eight vouchers for payments made from the Smithson income during
the year 1875, and three hundred and forty-six similar vouchers for
payments made from the Congressional appropriations for the National
Museum, making a total number of nine hundred and forty-four vouchers.

All of the vouchers have the approval of the Secretary of the Institu-
tion, and a certificate setting forth that the materials and property and
services rendered were for the Institution, and to be applied to the pur-
poses specified.

As authorized by a resolution of the Board of Regents, 26th May,
1874, the committee have also examined the account-books of the Na-
tional Museum and find the balance of $9,618.68 to the credit of the
appropriation for the ‘‘ preservation of the collections” remaining on
the 1st of January, 1876, to correspond with the certificate of the dis-
bursing-clerk of the Department of the Interior.

The quarterly accounts current, bank-book, check-book, and ledger
have also been examined and found to be correct, showing a balance in

REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE. al kal

the charge of the Treasurer of the United States 19th January, 1876, of
$20,595.82,
Respectfully submitted.
PETER PARKER,
JOHN MACLEAN,
GEO. BANCROFT,
Hexecutive Commitiee.
WASHINGTON, January 24, 1876.
GENERAL APPENDIX

TO THE

SMITHSONIAN REPORT FOR 1875.

The object of this appendix is to illustrate the operations of the Institution by
reports of lectures and extracts from correspondence, as well as to furnish information
of a character suited especially to the meteorological observers and other persons
interested in the promotion of knowledge.

S. Mis. 115 8 113

EULOGY ON ALEXANDER VOLTA,

By ARAGO.

[Translated for the Smithsonian Institution. ]

GENTLEMEN: When amber is rubbed it immediately attracts light
bodies, such as the down of feathers, fragments of straw, and sawdust.
Theophrastus, the Greek, and Pliny, the Roman, had both noticed this
property, but attaching apparently no importance to it, treated it sim-
ply as an accident of form and color. They little suspected they were
touching the first link of a long chain of discoveries, and did not appre-
ciate the value of an observation which, at a later date, was to furnish
assured means of disarming the thunder-cloud and conducting the
electricity concealed in its bosom to the earth without danger and
sometimes even without explosion.

From electron, the Greek for amber, is derived “ electricity,” a term ap-
plied originally to the attractive property of rubbed bodies, but now to
the cause of a great variety of effects and to all the details of a brilliant
science.

Electricity long remained in the hands of physicists, the almost exclu-
sive result of complicated combinations, which nature rarely presented.
The man of genius whose works we are about to analyze was the first to
transcend these narrow limits. With the aid of microscopic apparatus,
he found electricity everywhere, in combustion, in evaporation, and in
the simple contact of dissimilar bodies. He therefore assigned to this
powerful agent a wide-extended domain, which, in terrestrial phenomena,
searcely gives precedence to that of gravity.

The development disclosing the connection of these important discoy-
eries appears to me deserving of being traced with some degree of ex-
tension. It seems to me also that, since definite knowledge is so much
desired, academic eulogies may become introductory chapters of a gen-
eral history of the sciences. The following is. an essay, on my part,
which I frankiy sabmit to the rigid and enlightened criticism of the
publie.

BIRTH OF VOLTA—HIS YOULTH—HIS FIRST WORKS—LEYDEN JAR—
PERPETUAL ELECTROPHORUS—IMPROVEMENTS IN THE ELECTRI-
CAL MACHINE—CONDENSING ELECTROMETER—ELECTRIC PISTOL—
PERPETUAL LAMP—EUDIOMETER.

Alexander Volta, one of the eight foreign members of the Academy
of Science, and son of Philip Volta and Madeleine ,de Conti Inzaghi,

was born at Como, on the 18th of February, 1745. His early education
115
116 EULOGY ON ALEXANDER VOLTA.

was carried on at the publie school of his native place under his fathev’s
watchful care. Great aptitude, steady application, and a well-regulated
mind soon placed him at the head of his fellow-students. At eighteen,
he was already in correspondence with Nollet on the most recondite
questions of physics. At nineteen, he composed a Latin poem never given
to the public, in which he described the phenomena discovered by the most
celebrated experimentalists of the time. It has been said that at this
period, Volta’s vocation was undetermined, but I beg to differ from this
assertion, for a young man would scarcely hesitate about exchanging
the poetic art for a retort, if he had the singular taste to select chemistry
as the subject of his literary compositions; and, in fact, with the excep-
tion of several of his poems, including that describing Saussure’s ascent
of Mont Blane, we shall find the long career of this distinguished phy-
sicist devoted solely to the study of nature.

Volta, at the age of twenty-four, had the temerity to assail, in his
first essay, the delicate question of the Leyden jar. This apparatus had
been invented in 1746. The singularity of its effects would have amply
sufficed to justify the curiosity it excited throughout Europe; but this
curiosity was also due, in a great measure, to Musschenbroeck’s extray-
agant exaggeration of the unaccountable terror he experienced on re-
ceiving a very feeble discharge, in regard to which, the physicist em-
phatically exclaimed, he would not again expose himself for the proudest
kingdom of the universe. The numerous theories of the jar which were
successively offered are scarcely worthy of being enumerated. Frank-
lin has the honor of having solved this important problem, and, it must
be acknowledged, Volta has added little to the labors of the illustrious
American physicist.

The second essay of the physicist of Como appeared in 1771. In this,
observation is the only guide of the author in the researches undertaken
to determine the nature of the electricity of bodies covered with differ-
ent coatings; to ascertain the circumstances of temperature, color, and
elasticity causing the phenomena to vary; to study the electricity pro-
duced by rubbing, percussion, or pressure; or finally, the properties
of a new kind of electrical machine in which the movable plate and
the insulating supports were of dried wood.

On this side of the Alps, the first two essays of Volta were scarcely
read at all. In Italy, on the contrary, they produced a lively sensation.
Public authority, which is usually unfortunately partial, and which in
its blind love of absolute power often even refuses the modest request
of reference to competent judges, bastened itself to encourage the
youthful experimentalist. He was nominated by it as regent of the
Royal School of Como, and soon after professor of physics.

The missionaries to Pekin in 1755 communicated to the savants of
Europe an important fact made known to them by accident, respecting
electricity by induction, which, in certain bodies, is developed or dissi-
pated as these bodies are separated or brought into immediate contact.
EULOGY ON ALEXANDER VOLTA. 1

This fact gave rise to the interesting researches of AZpinus, Wilcke,
Cigna, and Beccaria. Volta also made it the subject of special study and
found in it the germ of the perpetual electrophorus, a wonderful instru-
ment, which, however small, affords an inexhaustible supply of elee-
tricity, and which, without the necessity of resorting to friction of any
kind, and whatever may be the state of the atmosphere, enables the
physicist to command incessant charges of undiminished power.

The essay on the electrophorus was succeeded in 1778 by another
very important production. It was known even at this time that a
given body, hollow or solid, has the same electrical capacity, provided
the surface remains the same. An observation by Lemonnier pointed
out, moreover, that, besides equality of surface, the shape of the body
is not without its influence. Volta was the first, however, to estab-
lish this principle on a solid basis. His experiments proved that of two
cylinders having the same surface, the longer receives the larger charge,
so that wherever the situation permits, it is an immense advantage to
substitute for the large conductors of ordinary machines a system of
very small cylinders, the total capacity of which is, however, not
larger than the other. By combining, for example, sixteen rows of
slender silver-plated rods, 1,000 feet in length each, a battery would be
formed, according to Volta, capable of killing the largest animal.

Not one of the discoveries of the professor of Como was the result of
accident. All the instruments with which he enriched science, before
being formed by the mechanic, were thoroughly planned in his mind.
There was no chance, for instance, in the changes made by Volta in the
electrophorus in order to transform it into a condenser, a genuine micro-
scope of a new kind which detects the presence of electricity where
every other means would fail.

In 1776 and 1777, Volta devoted himself for some months to a subject
of pure chemistry, in which, however, electricity, bis favorite science,
was involved in the most fortunate combinations.

At this epoch, chemists having as yet only discovered natural inflam-
mable gas in coal mines and mineral salts, regarded it as belonging
exclusively to mineral regions. Volta, whose attention had been di-
rected to this subject by an accidental observation of P. Campi, showed
they were mistaken. He proved that the putrefaction of both animal
and vegetable matter is always accompanied by the production of in-
flammable gas; that if stagnant water and the slime of a marsh be
stirred up, this gas will escape through the liquid, presenting the ap-
pearance of ordinary ebullition. Thus, the inflammable gas of marshes,
which for several years so much occupied the attention of chemists, is,
as to its origin, a discovery of Volta.

This discovery might lead to the belief that certain natural phenom-
ena, such, for example, as burning marshes and burning springs, arose
from a similar cause; but Volta knew too well how nature sports with
cur feeble understandings to be satisfied with mere analogy. In 1780
118 EULOGY ON ALEXANDER VOLTA.

he hastened to visit the celebrated marshes of Pietra Mala and Velleja.
He thoroughly examined all he could find in different travels in similar
localities, and then succeeded in establishing, with complete proof, and
contrary to received opinion, the fact that these phenomena did not
depend upon the presence of petroleum, naphtha, or bitumen; he dem-
onstrated, moreover, that it was caused alone by the disengagement
of inflammable gas. But has Volta proved, with the same accuracy,
that this gas has, in all places, its origin in the maceration of animal
or vegetable matter? I think we may be allowed to question this.
The electric spark had been, at an early date, used to inflame certain
liquids, certain vapors, and different gases, such as alcohol, the smoke
of a candle just extinguished, and hydrogen gas; but all these experi-
ments were made in the open air. Volta was the first to make them in
closed vessels, (1777.) He is therefore the originator of the apparatus
used by Cavendish in 1781 for combining the separated elements of
water by synthesis, so as to form anew the decomposed body from its
two constituent gaseous elements.

Our distinguished associate possessed in the highest degree two
qualities rarely found united, a creative genius and great powers of
application. He never abandoned a subject without examining it in all
its phases, without describing, or at least pointing out, the various
aids which science, ingenuity, and even mere curiosity might bring to
bear upon it. Thus several experiments on the inflammable nature of
the air of marshes gave rise to the electrical gun and pistol, upon which
it would be superfluous to dwell here, as they have passed from the
hands of physicists into those of the showman, and, in public places,
are daily exhibited to the admiring gaze of gaping idlers. Then the
perpetual hydrogen-gas lamp, so generally known in Germany, which,
by the most ingenious application of the electrophorus, lights itself when
needed, and, finally, the eudiometer, the valuable instrument of analysis,
which has been so useful to chemists.

The discovery of the composition of atmospheric air has given rise to
this momentous question in natural philosophy: Does the proportion,
in which the two component parts of air are found united, vary with the
successive revolutions of ages, and according to locality and the changes
of seasons ?

When one reflects that all mankind, all the beasts of the earth and
fowls of the air are constantly consuming, in the act of breathing, one
of these two components, oxygen gas; that this same gas is the indis-
pensable food of combustion in our homes, in workshops and vast fae-
tories ; that a candle or lamp is not lighted without absorbing it; that,
finally oxygen plays the chief part in the phenomena of vegetation, it
may readily be imagined that in the long run the atmosphere varies
sensibly in its composition ; that at some future time it will become unfit
for respiration; that then all the animal creation will be extinguished, not
in consequence of one of those physical revolutions of which geologists
EULOGY ON ALEXANDER VOLTA. 119

have discovered so many vestiges, and which, notwithstanding their
vast extent, may leave some chance of safety to a few individuals advan-
tageously situated, but from an all-pervading and inevitable cause, in
which case the frozen zones of the poles, the burning regions of the
equator, the vastness of the ocean, and the snowy summits of the Cor-
dilleras and Himalayas would be equally powerless to save. To study
all that can be discovered of this great phenomenon up to the present
time, to collect all the exact data with which the centuries to come will
be teeming, is the task physicists are hastening to accomplish, especially
since the eudiometer with the electric spark has supplied them with
the means of so doing. To answer some of the objections to which the
first trials of this instrument gave rise, Humboldt and Gay-Lussac sub.
mitted it to the most scrupulous examination. When such judges
declare that no known eudiometer approaches in accuracy that of Volta,
doubt as to its value can no longer exist.

DILATATION OF THE AIR.

As I have abandoned the chronological order, before taking up the
two most important works of our venerable fellow-member, before analyz-
ing his researches on atmospheric electricity and describing his dis-
covery of the pile, I will mention in a few words the experiments pub-
lished by him in 1793 on the subject of the dilatation of air.

This important question had already attracted the attention of a great
number of skillful physicists, who could not agree either on the total in-
crease of volume that air undergoes between the fixed temperatures of
melting ice and ebullition, or the rate of the expansions of the interme-
diate temperatures, Volta discovered the cause of these discordances.
He showed that, by operating in a vessel containing humidity, theincrease
of expansion would be found ; that if there be in the apparatus no more
humidity than the film ordinarily covering the sides of the glass, the ap-
parent expansion of the air will be increasing in the lower part of the ther-
mometric scale and decreasing in the upper part. He finally proved,
by delicate measurements, that atmospheric air, if confined in a per-
fectly dry vessel, expands in proportion to its temperature, when this
latter is measured by a mercurial thermometer divided into equal parts.
Now, as D’Huc’s and Crawford’s works seemed to establish the fact that
a Similar thermometer gives the correct measurement of the amount of
heat, Volta felt himself authorized to announce, in the new terms,
whose importance all will appreciate, the very simple law resulting from
his experiments, that the elasticity of a given volume of atmospheric air
is in proportion to its heat.

When air, at a low temperature, and constantly containing the same
amount of humidity, was heated, its elastic force increased as did that
of dry air. Volta concluded from this that the vapor of water and air
expand precisely in the same manner. Every one now knows that this
result is accurate; but the experiment of the physicist of Como did leave
120 EULOGY ON ALEXANDER VOLTA.

some doubts, since, at the ordinary temperature, vapor mingles with
the atmospheric air in very small proportions. Volta regarded the work
I have just analyzed as a mere rough draught.

Numerous other researches of the same kind to which he had applied
himself were to form part of a treatise which has never seen the light.
Besides, on this point science now seems complete, thanks to Gay-Lus-
sae and Dalton. The experiments of these ingenious physicists, made
at atime when Volta’s treatise, though published, was known neither
in France nor in England, included all the gases, whether permanent or
ephemeral, in the law of the Italian scientist. They lead, moreover, in
every case, to the same co-efficient of expansion.

ATMOSPHERIC ELECTRICITY.

I will not resume the subject of Volta’s researches on atmospheric
electricity until after having given a hasty sketch of the analogous ex-
periments preceding them. In order to judge judiciously of a traveler's
course, it is often necessary to view it at the same time from the start-
ing and finishing points.

Dr. Wall, who wrote in 1708, should be here named as the first, for in
one of his treatises is found this ingenious remark: “ The light and
crackling noise of electrified bodies seems, up to a certain point, to repre-
sent thunder and lightning.” Stephen Grey published in 1735 a similar
remark. ‘It is probable,” said this distinguished physicist, * that in time
some means of concentrating this electrical fire in larger quantities, will
be discovered, and also of increasing the power ofan agent, which, if it
be allowable to compare small things with great, according to several
of my experiments, seems to have the nature of thunder and lightning.”

The majority of physicists saw merely comparisons in these passages.
They did not suppose that in finding a resemblance between the effects
of electricity and those of thunder, Wall and Grey claimed to infer
from it an identity of causes. This doubt, however, would not be appli-
cable to the sketch introduced by Nollet, in 1746, in his lectures on ex-
perimental physics. In that, for example, according to the author, a
storm-cloud, far above the earth, is nothing more than an electrified
body placed above a body which is not. Thunder in the hands of nature
is electricity in the hands of physicists. Several striking resemblances are
pointed out, and, in a word, nothing is wanting to complete this inge-
nious theory, except the only thing necessary to give it a definite place
in science, the sanction of direct experiment.

Franklin’s first views of the analogy between electricity and thunder
were, like those entertained by Nollet, mere conjectures; the whole dif-
ference between the two physicists being then reduced to a plan for an
experiment not mentioned by Nollet, and which seemed to promise de-
finitive proofs for or against the hypothesis. The object of this exper-
iment was to prove whether, during a storm, a metallic rod, insulated
EULOGY ON ALEXANDER VOLTA. LT

and terminating in a point, would give out sparks similar to those pro-
ceeding from the conductor of an ordinary electrical machine.

Without wishing to detract from Franklin’s glory, I must remark that
the projected experiment was quite unnecessary.* The soldiers of the
Fifth Roman Legion had previously made it, during the African war—
the day when, as related by Cesar, the iron heads of their lances seemed
on fire during a storm. The same was also noticed by numerous navi-
gators, to whom Castor and Pollux appeared, either at the metallic
points of the mast-head and yard-arms or other prominent parts of their
vessels. Finally, in certain countries, in Frioul, for instance, at the
Chateau de Duino, the sentry was strictly carrying out what Franklin
would have desired, when, in conformity with his duty and to decide
when it would be necessary, by ringing a bell, to warn the peasants of
the approach of a storm, he examined with his halbert the iron head of a
spear planted vertically on the rampart, to ascertain whether sparks had
been given out. Besides, whether some of these circumstances were ig-
nored, or whether they were not considered sufficiently demonstrative,
direct experiments seemed requisite, and it is to Dalibard, our fellow-

‘countryman, that science is indebted for this. Onthe 10th of May, 1752,
during a storm, a long, pointed metallic rod, placed by him in a garden of
Marly-la- Ville, gave out small sparks, like the conductor of an ordinary
electrical machine in contact with a metallic wire. It was not until a
month later that Franklin, in the United States, by means of a kite,
realized the same experiment. Lightning-rods were the immediate
result of this, and the distinguished American physicist hastened to
announce it to the world.

That portion of the public which, in matters of science, is reduced to
judge from hearsay, rarely decides by halves. It admits or rejects, if I
may be allowed the term, impetuously. Lightning-rods, for example,
became the object of a genuine enthusiasm, whose flights it would be
curious to follow in the writings of the day. Here you find travelers
who, in the open fields, suppose themselves able, sword in hand pointed
toward the clouds, to exorcise the lightning, in the posture of Ajax
threatening the gods; there, churchmen, whose garb forbids the sword,
bitterly deploring being denied this talisman of safety; some, seri-
ously proposing, as an infallible preservative, to place themselves
under a rain-spout at the beginning of the stcrm, considering wet
clothing good conductors of electricity ; others invented certain head-
gear, from which were suspended long metallic chains, which with great
care must be kept constantly trailing on the damp earth. Some physic-
ists, it must be acknowledged, did not share this infatuation. They

*We do not agree with Arago in this remark. The phenomena he mentions were
the spontaneous productions of nature, and were not referred to atmospheric electri-
city. To fully establish the identity of electricity and lightning required such an
experiment as that of Franklin’s, in which electricity was actually drawn from the

cloud in accordance with previously-established principles. “i
Ua tals
122 EULOGY ON ALEXANDER YOLTA.

admitted the identity of lightning and electricity, so conclusively proved
by the experiment of Franklin and of Marly-la-Ville; but the small
number of sparks proceeding from the rod, and their minuteness, created
doubts as to the possibility of exhausting the immense amount of ful-
minating matter with which a storm-cloud must be charged. The
frightful experiments made by Romas de Nerac did not overcome their
opposition, because this experimentalist used a kite with a metallic
cord, which rose several hundred feet, to draw down the thunder from
the very regions of the clouds. Soon, however, tbe deplorable death of
Richman, August 6, 1753, occasioned by a simple discharge from an
ordinary insulated lightning-rod which this distinguished physicist had
placed on his house in Saint Petersburg, threw new light upon the sub-
ject. The learned saw in this tragic death an explanation of the passage
in which Pliny, the naturalist, relates that Tullus Hostilius was struck
by lightning for not having been sufficiently careful in the performance
of certain ceremonies by means of which Numa, his predecessor, forced
the lightning to descend from the skies. On the other side, and this
was of more importance, physicists, without prejudice, found in this
same event a fact which had before been wanting, namely, that under
certain circumstances a metallic rod, slightly elevated, draws down froma
storm-cloud not only inappreciable sparks, but genuine torrents of
electricity. Accordingly, from this time discussions relating to the
efficacy of lightning-rods are without interest, not even excepting the
animated debate as to whether lightning-rods should terminate in a
point or ball, which for some time divided the inglish scientists. No one
is ignorant now that George ILI was the promoter of this polemic—that
he was in favor of rods terminating in balls, because Franklin, then his
successful antagonist in political questions of vast importance, required
they should terminate in points; but this discussion, taking all things
into consideration, belongs rather, though a matter of much moment, to
the history of the American Revolution than to that of science.

The results of the experiment of Marly were scarcely known, when
Lemonnier, of this academy, placed in his garden at Saint-Germain-en-
Lage a long vertical metallic rod, insulated by some newly invented
precautions, and from this time clusters of electrical sparks (July and
September, 1752) were produced, not only when the thunder rumbled, not
only when the sky was overcast with threatening clouds, but even when
it was perfectly serene. A beautiful discovery was thus the result of
apparently the most insignificant modification of Dalibard’s original
apparatus.

Lemonnier discovered without much difliculty that this serene-day
lightning, whose existence he had just revealed, was subject every
twenty-four hours to regular variations of intensity. Beccaria de-
lineated the laws of this diurnal periodicity by means of excellent ob-
servations. He, moreover, established the important fact that at all
seasons, at all heights, whatever the direction of the wind, the electricity
of a serene sky is invariably positive.
EULOGY ON ALEXANDER VOLTA. L273

By thus following, in the order of their dates, the developments of
atmospheric electricity, I gradually reach the works with which Volta
has enriched this important branch of meteorology. The object of these
works was by turns the improvement of the methods of observation
and the minute examination of the different circumstances under which
the electricity was developed, which pervaded all the regions of the air.

When a new branch of science has been discovered the experimental-
ists devote themselves almost exclusively to the discovery of new phe-
nomena, reserving their numerical valuation for later times. In elec-
tricity, for example, several physicists made themselves in this way a
well-merited reputation. The Leyden jar, we may add, was conspicuous
in all the laboratories of Europe, but no one had yet invented a veritable
electrometer. The first instrument of this kind was made in 1749, and
was the work of Darcey and Le Roy, two members of this academy.
Its want of sensibility in small charges prevented its being adopted.

The electrometer suggested by Nollet (1752) appeared at first sight
simpler, more convenient, and especially as having infinitely greater sen-
sibility. It was to consist of two wires, which after being electrified
would open, like the two branches of a compass, from the effect of
repulsion. The measure sought would thus be reduced to the observa.
tion of an angle.

Cavallo realized what Nollet had only suggested, (1780.) His wires
were of metal, and had at their extremities small balls of the pith of
elder. Volta finally abolished the elder and substituted dry straws
at the end of the wires. This change might seem unimportant if it
were not explained that the new electrometer alone possessed the valu-
able and unexpected property of giving, between 0 and 30°, the angu-
lar motions of the two straws exactly proportional to the electrical
charges.

Volta’s letter to Lichtenberg, dated 1786, in which he established by
numerous experiments the properties of the straw electrometer, con-
tained interesting views, no traces of which are to be found in more
recent works. They relate to the means of rendering these instruments
comparable in the measurement of the strongest charges, and to cer-
tain combinations of the electrometer and condenser. This letter can-
not be too highly recommended to young physicists. It will initiate
them into the very difficult art of investigating ; it will teach them to
mistrust first impressions and to constantly vary the form_of the appa-
ratus; if tempted by an impatient temper to abandon the slow but sure
and beaten track of observation for seductive chimerical ideas, they
may, perhaps, be arrested on this slippery ground by beholding a man
of genius undaunted by the most minute details. And, moreover, ata
time when, save in a few honorable cases, the publication of a book is a
purely business operation, when scientific treatises, especially, modeled
after the same pattern, do not differ from each other, except perhaps
by a few slight shades in the compilation, often indeed imperceptible,
124 EULOGY ON ALEXANDER VOLTA.

when each author neglects most scrupulously all the experiments,
theories, and instruments forgotten or ignored by his immediate prede-
cessor, it is but a duty, it seems to me, to direct the attention of begin-
ners to the original sources, and it is from these sources, and these alone,
important subjects for research can be drawn, and where they will find
a faithful history of discoveries, where they will learn to distinguish
clearly the true from the doubtful, and finally to mistrust rash hypotheses
adopted by compilers without discrimination and with blind confidence.

When Saussure, profiting by the wonderful power exercised by points
on the electric fluid, succeeded, in 1785, by the simple addition of a rod
eight or nine decimeters (about a yard) in length, in increasing the sen-
sibility of Cavallo’s electrometer, and consequently invoking a great num-
ber of minute experiments, the wires terminating in the elder-pith balls
of the Neapolitan physicist being replaced by dried straws, this small
apparatus might be supposed incapable of receiving any additional
important improvement. Volta, however, in 1787, succeeded in con-
siderably increasing its power, without at all changing its original
construction. He had recourse to the strangest of expedients to accom-
plish this; he attached to the point of the metallic rod introduced by
Saussure either a wax candle or simply a lighted match.

No one could assuredly have foreseen such aresult. Experimentalists
had discovered, at an early date, flame to be an excellent conductor of
electricity ; but would not that very fact have a tendency to divert the
thoughts from considering it as a powerful collector? Besides, Volta,
endowed with a strictly logical mind, did not thoroughly receive this
strange fact until he could find for it an explanation. He found that
the fact that a candle attracts to the point to which it is attached three
or four times as much electricity as could be collected in any other
way, is owing to the current of air induced by the flame, and to the
increased communications established between the metallic point and
the atmospheric molecules.

Since flame attracts the electricity of the air much better than pointed
metallic rods, does it not follow, said Volta, that the best means of
preventing storms, or rendering them less frightful, would be to light
enormous fires in the fields, or, still better, on very elevated places.
After reflecting on the grand effects of the very small flame of the
candle of the electrometer, is there anything unreasonable in suppos-
ing that a large flame might, in a few moments, rob immense volumes
of air and vapor of all their electricity ?

Volta was anxious to submit this idea to the proof of direct experi-
ment; but so far his wishes have been unsatisfied. Perbaps some
encouraging ideas might be obtained with regard to this by comparing
the meteorological observations of the counties in England, where the
flames of so many high chimneys and factories convert night into day
with those of the surrounding agricultural districts.

The fiery lightning-rods tempted Volta to throw aside the severe
EULOGY ON ALEXANDER VOLTA. 12S

gravity in which he usually indulged. He tried to enliven the subject
at the expense of the erudite, who, like the famous Dietens, always
found, but after the event, the discovery of their contemporaries in
some ancient author. He begged, then, in this instance, to go back to
the fabulous times of the Greeks and Romans, and directed their
attention to the sacrifices in the open air, the dazzling flames on the
altars, the black columns of smoke which ascended into the air from
the bodies of the victims; finally, to all the circumstances of those
ceremonies which the ignorant believe were intended to appease the
wrath of the gods, and to foil Jupiter’s fulminating arm. All this
could be but a mere experiment in physics, alone understood by the
priests, and designed to restore silently to the earth the electricity of
the air and clouds. The Greeks and Romans, during the most brilliant
periods of their history, sacrificed, it is true, in closed temples; but,
added Volta, this difficulty is not without its solution, as it may be
said that Pythagoras, Aristotle, Cicero, Pliny, and Seneca were igno-
rant fellows, who, even according to simple tradition, did not possess
the scientific knowledge of their predecessors. No criticism could be
more cutting; but, to have any effect, it would be necessary to forget
that the Zoileans, in all ages, who ransack musty books for the first
rudiments, true or false, of great discoveries, are less eager to honor
the dead than to bring discredit upon their contemporaries.

Nearly all physicists ascribe electrical phenomena to two fluids of
different natures, which, under certain circumstances, accumulate sepa-
rately on the surface of bodies. This hypothesis naturally led to an
investigation into the source from which atmospheric electricity ema-
nates. The problem was important. A delicate, though very simple,
experiment led to its solution.

In this experiment, an insulated vessel from which the water could
evaporate, gave, with the assistance of Volta’s condenser, very mani-
fest indications of negative electricity.

I regret my inability to announce, with any degree of certainty, to
whom to ascribe this capital experiment. Volta relates in one of his
treatises that he had been thinking of this since 1778, but various cir-
cumstances having prevented his attempting it, it was not until 1780,
in Paris, in the month of March, in company with several members of
the Academy of Science, that he was finally successful. On the other
hand, Lavoisier and Laplace, in the last line of the treatise published
by them on the same subject, merely remarked: Volta was anxious to
be present at our experiment and make himself useful to us.

How shall we reconcile these two very contradictory statements? <A
historical note, published by Volta himself, is far from dispelling these
doubts. This note, attentively examined, does not expressly state who
originated the idea of the experiment, nor which one of the three physi-
cists suggested that it might succeed with the aid of the condenser.
The first attempt, in Paris, by Volta and the two French scientists
26 EULOGY ON ALEXANDER VOLTA.

unitedly, was unsuccessful, the hygrometrical state of the atmosphere
not having been favorable. A few days after, at Lavoisier’s country-
house, electrical symptoms became manifest, though no change had
been made in the method of observation. Volta was not present at this
last trial.

This circumstance was the origin of all the difficulties. Some physi-
cists, as a general rule, without a thorough examination, regard as dis-
coverers those who are the first, by experiment, to establish the exist-
ence of a fact. Others again regard the work of experiment as a second-
ary matter, reserving their admiration for those who have planned the
investigation.

These principles are both too exclusive. Pascal assigned to his
brother-in-law, Perrier, the duty of ascending the Puy-de-Dome to ob-
serve the barometer, and yet Pascal’s name alone is connected with
that of Toricelli, when referring to the proofs of the pressure of the air.
Michell and Cavendish, on the contrary, in the eyes of physicists, share
with no one the credit of their celebrated experiment on the attraction
of terrestrial bodies, although it had often occurred to others to attempt
it; and, in this case, execution was everything. The work of Volta,
Lavoisier, and Laplace belongs to neither of these two categories. I
will grant, if desired, that a man of genius alone could conceive the idea
that electricity assists in the generation of vapor; but to place this idea
beyond the pale of hypothesis, special means of observation and new
instruments must be invented. Those used by Lavoisier and Laplace
were the inventions of Volta; they were constructed in Paris, under his
own eyes; and be was present when they were first tested. Multiplied
proofs of direct co-operation unquestionably connect Volta’s name with
every theory relating to the electricity of vapor. Who, however, would
dare affirm, in the absence of a positive declaration of this great physi-
cist to the contrary, that the experiment was not undertaken at the
suggestion of the French savant ? While there is doubt, would it not
be natural, on this, as well as on the other side of the Alps, in re-
ferring to these phenomena, not to separate again the names of Volta,
Lavoisier, and Laplace; to cease to see in it, here a question of misun-
derstood nationality, and there a subject of virulent accusation, scarcely
excusable, if even no cloud obscured the truth ?

These reflections will, I hope, put an end toa disgraceful dispute,
which malicious passions have endeavored to perpetuate. They will, at
all events, prove, by an additional example, how delicate a matter is the
proprietorship of the productions of the mind. When three of the most
brilliant geniuses of the eighteenth century, in the zenith of their glory,
could not agree as to what part of the invention belonged to each, in
an experiment made by all, need we be astonished to see such conflicts
arise among beginners ?

In spite of the length of this digression, I must not dismiss the exper-
iment which suggested it without dwelling upon its great importance,

” —
EULOGY ON ALEXANDER VOLTA. ihzwe

and proving it to be the basis of a very curious branch of meteorology.
A few words will suffice for this.

When the insulated metallic vessel in which the water evaporates*
becomes electric, this water derives, from the bodies it touches, not
only heat but also electricity, in order, Volta says, to pass from a liquid
to an aeriform state. The electric fluid is, then, an integral part of the
large masses of vapors which are daily forming at the expense of the
seas, lakes, and rivers. These vapors, as they rise, find in the high
regions of the atmosphere a degree of cold which condensesthem. The
constituent electric fluid is then liberated and accumulated, and the
feeble conductibility of the air prevents its returning to the earth, whence
it came, except in the form of rain, snow, hail, or some violent discharge.

Thus, on a stormy day, according to this theory, the electricity whose
dazzling effulgence darts from east to west, from north to south, whose
deep thunderings echo far and near, and which, hurled to the earth,
leaves in its course destruction and death, is but the result of the daily
evaporation of water, the inevitable consequence of a phenomenon de-
veloped by shades so insensible as to be imperceptible to our senses.
When effects are compared to causes, nature, we must acknowledge,
presents most wonderful contrasts.

THK VOLTAIC PILE.

I have now reached one of those rare epochs in which an important
and unexpected fact, so often the result of some auspicious accident,
in the hands of genius becomes the source of a scientific revolution.

A detailed description of the wonderful effects produced by insig-
nificant causes, would, perhaps, be as interesting in the history of the
sciences as in thatof nations. If some savant should ever undertake to
sketch it, that branch of physics properly called galvanism would
occupy one of the first places in it. In fact, it can be proved that the
immortal discovery of the pile, springs, in a very direct manner, from
a slight cold with which a lady of Bologna was attacked in 1790, who
was ordered by her physician a dish of frog-soup.

Several of these animals, prepared for the purpose by Madame Gal-
vani’s cook, were lying on a table at the time of an accidental discharge
of an electrical machine at some distance. The muscles, although not
touched by the sparks, evinced, at the moment of the discharge, the
most decided contractions. The experiment, repeated with all kinds of
animals, succeeded equally well, whether the electricity were artificial
or natural, positive or negative.

This phenomenon was very easily explained on the well-known prin-
ciple of induction, the electricity of the discharge disturbing by repul-
sion at a distance the natural electricity of the frog. Had it happened
to some experienced physicist, familiar with the properties of electricity,

*It isnow known that this experiment does not succeed when distilled water is used.
128 EULOGY ON ALEXANDER VOLTA.

it would searcely have attracted his attention; if remarked at all, the
extent of the observation would have been that the extreme sensibility
of the frog would render it a very good electroscope. Here was a case,
however, though a rare one, where ignorance was great gain, for Galvani,
though askillful anatomist, knew very little of electricity. The muscu-
lar movements witnessed by him appeared inexplicable; a new world
seemed opening before him. He applied himself to the task of varying
the experiments in a thousand ways.

It was in doing this that he discovered an entirely new fact, the fact
that a frog, even though killed for a long time, manifests very intense
contractions, without the intervention of any foreign electricity, by merely
placing a metallic plate, or, better still, two plates of dissimilar metals,
between a muscle and a nerve. The astonishment of the professor of
Bologna was then quite justifiable, and that of all Europe with hin.

An experiment, in which the legs, thighs, and trunks of animals dis-
membered for hours manifested the strongest convulsions, darting about
aud appearing to return to life, could not long remain uninvestigated.
After analyzing it in all its details, Galvani supposed the effect to be
produced on the principle of the Leyden jar. According to him, the
animals were merely reservoirs of electricity; positive electricity having
its seat in the nerves, and negative in the muscles, the metallic plate
interposed between these organs being simply the conductor by means of
which the discharge is effected.

These views captivated the public; physiologists seized hold upon
them; electricity usurped the place of the nervous fluid then occupying
so large a space in the explanation of the phenomena of the principle
of life, though, by a strange oversight, no one had attempted to prove
its existence. In a word, all flattered themselves that they had found
the physical agent which conveys external impressions to the sensorium,
which makes, among animals, nearly all of the organs subservient to
their intelligence, and the movements of the arms, legs, and head obe-
dient to the will. But, alas! these delusions were not of long duration.
The whole beautiful romance was dispelled by Volta’s critically severe
experiments.

This ingenious physicist first created convulsions, not merely as Gal-
vani did, by interposing two dissimilar metals between a nerve and
muscle, but by simply bringing them in contact with a muscle.

From this moment the principle of the Leyden jar was acknowledged
to have no connection with the phenomenon ; there was no longer any
possible comparison between them. The negative electricity of the
muscles and the positive electricity of the nerves were pure hypoth-
eses, without any solid foundation; the phenomena seemed to have no
connection with anything known, but were obscured, by an impenctra-
ble veil.

Volta, nevertheless, was not discouraged. He claimed that, in his
own experiment, electricity was the cause of the convulsions ; that the
EULOGY ON ALEXANDER VOLTA. 129

muscle played but a passive part, and was to be simply regarded as a
conductor by means of which the discharge was effected. Electricity,
Volta had the independence to conjecture, was the inevitable result of
the contact of the tivo metals between which the muscle was placed.
I say the two metals, and not the two plates, since, according to Volta,
with no difference in the nature of the two metals in contact, no elec-
trical development could take place.

The physicists of all Kurope, and Volta himself, adopted at the begin.
ning of galvanism the views of the discoverer. They were unanimous in
regarding the spasmodic convulsions of the dead animals as one of the
greatest discoveries of modern times. But, however little one may know
of the human heart, it is not difficult to divine that a theory, designed
to connect these curious phenomena with the ordinary laws of electric-
ity, would not be admitted by Galvani and his followers without extreme
reluctance. In fact, the Bolognese school defended every foot of the im-
mense ground attacked, which had been abandoned without opposition,
by the supporters of animal electricity.

Among the numerous facts presented by this celebrated school to the
physicist of Como was one which, by its singularity, for a moment, held
all minds in suspense. I allude to the convulsions that Galvani himself
created by bringing the muscles of the frog in contact with two plates, not
dissimilar as Volta supposed necessary, but both from one and the same
slab of metal. This effect, although not continuous, p1esented apparently
ab insurmountable objection to the new theory.

Volta replied that the plates used by his adversaries might be identi-
cal in name-and chemical nature, and yet differ in other respects, so as
to possess entirely distinct properties. In his hands, in fact, inactive
couples, composed of two contiguous parts of the same metallic plate,
acquired a certain power from the moment the temperature, the degree
of annealing, or the polish of only one of the elements was changed.

Thus, this contest did not shake the theory of the celebrated profes-
sor. It only proved that the word dissimilar, applied to superposed me-
tallic bodies, had been understood in altogether too restricted a sense.

Volta had to endure a last and very formidable assault. This time
his very friends thought him vanquished forevermore. Doctor Valli,
his antagonist, produced contortions by the simple contact of two por-
tions of the frog, without the intervention of the metallic armatures,
which, in all similar experiments, had been, according to our fellow-
member, the principal generator of electricity.

It was evident from more than one passage in Volta’s letters how
deeply he was wounded by the tone of assurance with which (I give his
own words) the galvanists, old and young, boasted of having reduced
him to silence. This silence, however, was not of long duration. An
attentive examination of Valli’s experiments soon proved to Volta that
to insure their success this double condition was necessary: as much
heterogeneity as possible between the parts of the animal brought in

S. Mis. 115——9
130 EULOGY ON ALEXANDER VOLTA.

contact and the interposition between these same parts of a third sub-
stance. The fundamental principle of the Voltaic theory, far from being
shaken, only acquired a much greater generality. Metals no longer
formed an exclusive class. Analogy led to the fact that two dissimilar
substances, whatever their nature, give rise by mere contact to a
development of electricity.

There was nothing henceforth serious in the attack of the galvanists.
Their experiments were no longer confined to very small animals.
They produced strange nervous movements in the nostrils, tongue, and
eyes of an ox killed for several days, thus strengthening more or less
the hopes of those to whom galvanism had seemed a means of resusci-
tating the dead; but they threw no new light on the theory. By
borrowing arguments, not from nature, but the grandeur of the effects,
the adepts of the Bolognese school strongly resembled that savant,
who, to prove that the atmosphere is not the cause of the rise of the
mercury in the barometer, conceived the idea of substituting a large
cylinder for the narrow tube of this instrument, and then cited, as a
formidable difficulty, the exact number of quintals of liquid raised.

Volta gave a death-blow to animal electricity. His conceptions were
constantly verified by experiments, but these were not well understood,
and by means of them it was hoped to undermine him. His conclusions
had not, and we may add that they could not have, as yet the entire and
unprejudiced approval of physicists. The contact of two metals, of two
dissimilar substances, gave rise to a certain agent which, like electricity,
produced spasmodic movements. About this fact there was no doubt,
but was the agent in question really eleqtrical? Were the proofs
given sufficiently satisfactory ?

When two dissimilar metals are placed on the tongue in a certain
order, at the moment of contact an acid taste is produced. If the
order of these metals be reversed, the taste becomes alkaline. Now,
by simply applying the tongue to the conductor of an ordinary electri-
eal machine, the taste is acid or alkaline, as the conductor is charged
plus or minus. In this case, the phenomenon is undoubtedly due to
electricity. ‘Is it not natural,” said Volta, ‘‘to infer an identity of
causes from a resemblance of the effects ; to assimilate the first experi-
ment with the second; to find but one difference between them, namely,
the mode of producing the principle which excites the organ of taste?”
No one questioned the importance of this comparison. Volta’s pene-
trating genius saw in it the basis of a thorough conviction. Most physi-
cists required more explicit proofs. These proofs, these incontestable
demonstrations, before which all opposition must vanish, Volta found
jn a capital experiment which can be explained in a few words.

Two polished disks of copper and zine, with insulated handles, are
brought exactly in contact, with nothing intervening; by means of
these same handles, the disks are then suddenly separated; and, finally,
each in turn is presented to the ordinary condenser, armed with an elec-
EULOGY ON ALEXANDER VOLTA. 131

trometer, when the straws instantly diverge. It was proved, too, by the
same means, that the two metals are in opposite states of electricity ;
that the zinc is positive and the copper negative. By repeating several
times the contact of the two disks, their separation from, and contact
with, the condenser in turns, Volta succeeded, as with an ordinary
machine, in producing bright sparks. After these experiments, the the-
ory of galvanic phenomena was fully established.

The production of electricity by the mere contact of dissimilar metals
was ranked among the most important and best-established facts of the
physical sciences. If, after this, there was anything left to be desired,
it was an easy means of increasing this kind of electricity. Such means’
are now known to all experimentalists, and it is to Volta’s genius that
they are indebted for them.

At the beginning of the year 1800, (the date of so wonderful a dis-
covery could not be passed cover in silence,) in consequence of some the-
oretical views, the illustrious professor contrived a high column, con-
sisting of pairs of copper and zine, each pair being separated from the
adjoining ones by pieces of moist cloth, scrupulous care being taken not
to invert this order. But, @ priori, what was to be expected from such
acombination? Well, I do not hesitate to say that this apparently inert
mass, this singular assemblage, this pile of so many pairs of dissimilar
metals separated by a small quantity of liquid, is, with respect to the
singularity of its effects, the most marvelous instrument ever invented
by man, without even excepting the telescope and steam-engine.

I am quite sure I shall escape ali reproach of, exaggeration if, in the
enumeration I am about to make of the properties of Volta’s apparatus,
I shall Le allowed to cite both those properties discovered by this scien-
tist and those whose discoveries are due to his successors.

Every one will remark in the short description I have given of the
composition of the pile, that its two extremities are necessarily dissim-
ilar ; that if zine be at the base copper must be at the top, and conversely.
These two extremities are called the poles.

Let us now suppose two wires attached to the opposite poles, copper
and zine, of a voltaic pile; the apparatus, so arranged, being ready for
the different experiments I wish to describe.

If one of the wires alone be grasped no sensation is felt; but the
moment both are touched a violent shock is experienced. This, as is
evident, is nothing more than the phenomenon of the famous Leyden jar,
which, in 1746, excited in so high a degree the wonder of all Europe. But
the jar could only be used once; after each shock it being necessary to
recharge it to repeat the experiment; the pile, on the contrary, supplying
a thousand successive shocks. It may be compared consequently with
regard to the nature of its effects to the Leyden jar, with this additional
proviso, that after each discharge it immediately returns itself to its
original condition.

If the wire from the zine pole is placed on the end of the tongue, and
132 EULOGY ON ALEXANDER VOLTA.

that from the copper on some other part of the body, a very decided acid
taste is the result. To vary the nature of this taste, or to make it alka-
line, it is only necessary to reverse the order of the wires.

The sense of sight does not escape the action of this protean instru-
ment. Here the phenomenon will appear the more interesting from the
fact that the luminous sensation is excited without the necessity of
touching the eye. If the end of one of the wires be applied to the fore-
head, cheeks, nose, chin, or even the throat, the very moment the ob-
server seizes the other wire with his hand he perceives, with his eyes
closed, a flash of light whdse intensity and form vary according to the

“part of the face in contact with the conductor. Similar combinations
create in the ear sounds, or, rather, peculiar noises. .

It is not alone on healthy organs that the pile acts. It excites or
appears to revive those in which life seemed altogether extinct. In one
instance, by the combination of the two wires, the muscles of a head,
severed from the body, evinced contortions so frightful that the spec-
tators fled terrified. In another the body of the victim half arose, its
hands shaking, and striking the nearest objects, and raising weights of
several pounds. The pectoral muscles imitated the respiratory move-
ments ; and, in a word, every life-like motion was so accurately repro-
duced that the question was involuntarily asked whether the experi-
mentalist was not guilty of a culpable act, whether he was not adding
cruel sufferings to those just inflicted on the criminal by the hand ot
the executioner.

Insects, also, subjected to these experiments, gave interesting results.
The wires of the pole, for example, greatly increased the brilliancy of the
glow-worm, restored motion to a dead grasshopper, and made it sing.

The marvelous effects of the pile each day acquire a more extended
field of action. But I must decline an invitation made me to treat the
subject with regard to its medicinal properties and the power it possesses,
it is said, of curing certain affections of the stomach and paralysis, for
the lack of sufficiently accurate information. I will add, however, that
M. Marianini, of Venice, one of the most celebrated physicists of the cen-
tury, has recently obtained, in eight cases of severe paralysis, results so
completely favorable, by a skillful application of electro-motors, that it
would be the grossest negligence on the part of the medical faculty not
to give their attention to this means of alleviating human suffering.

If, laying aside the physiological properties of the pile, we consider it
merely as an electrical machine, we shall find ourselves in that depart-
ment of science which has been brought to a high degree of perfection
by Nickolson and Carlisle, Hisinger and Berzelius, Orested and Ampére,
and Davy.

At first each wire, taken separately, will indicate the ordinary tem-
perature, that of the surrounding air; but the moment these wires are
brought into contact they will acquire an intense heat. When suffi-
ciently attenuated they become incandescent; still more attenuated,
they melt altogether, to the consistency of a liquid, even if they be of
EULOGY ON ALEXANDER VOLTA. 133

platina, the least fusibie of all known metals. We may add that, with
a powerful battery, two slender wires of gold or platinum exhibit, at the
moment of contact, a disintegration so complete that they vanish in the
form of a light vapor.

Charcoal, applied to the two extremities of these same wires, takes
fire as soon as the wires are brought into contact. The light diffused
by them is so pure, so dazzling, so remarkable for its whiteness, that
it is not transcending the limits of truth to compare it to that of the
sun. Who knows, even, whether this analogy may not be carried still
further, whether this experiment may not solve one of the greatest
problems of natural philosophy, and give the clew to that peculiar kind
of combustion displayed by the sun for so many ages, with no sensible
loss of matter or brilliancy ? The carbon attached to the two wires of
the pile in fact becomes incandescent, even in the most perfect vacuum.
Nothing, then, is taken from, or added to, their substance. After an
experiment of this kind, whatever may have been its duration, the car-
bons are found, as to their inner nature and weight, in their original
condition.*

Every one knows that platinum, gold, copper, &c., do not act sensibly
on a magnetic needle. Wires of these different metals attached to the
two poles of the pile follow the same law, if taken separately. But, on
the contrary, from the moment they come in contact, a very intense
magnetic action is developed. Besides, during the whole period of con-
tact, these wires are themselves genuine magnets, they attract iron-
filings and communicate a permanent magnetism to steel bars placed
transversely to them. When the pile is very powerful, and the wires,
instead of touching, are at some distance, a bright light unites their
extremities. In fact, this ligbt is magnetic; a magnet can attract or
repel it. If, to-day, without being prepared for it, I mean with only the
knowledge of their day, Franklin and Coulomb should hear me speak
of a flame being attracted by a magnet, the most flattering sentiment I
could expect would undoubted!y be one of decided incredulity. Let us
Suppose the same wires slightly separated and immersed in a liquid,
pure water, for example. The water will be instantly decomposed ; the
two gaseous elements forming it will be disunited; the oxygen will be
liberated from the surface of the end of the wire from the zine pole; and
the hydrogen quite distant from that, at the point of the wire from the
copper pole. The bubbles rise separately through the liquid, and the
two constituent gases may therefore be collected in two separate vessels.
If we substitute for the pure water a liquid holding in solution saline
matter, the pile will then analyze this matter. The acids will pass to
the zine pole and the alkalies to the copper.

This is the most powerful method of analysis known. It has recently
enriched science with a multitude of important results. It is, for in-

*This is not correct; there is a transfer of the particles of carbon from one pole to
the other.—J. H.
15 EULOGY ON ALEXANDER VOLTA. ty

stance, to the pile we are indebted for the first decomposition of a great
nuinber of alkalies and earths which were before considered as simple
substances ; it is by it that all those bodies have become oxides; that
chemistry now possesses metals, such as potassium, which can be
kneaded by the fingers like wax, and will float on the surface of the water,
because lighter than it; and are spontaneously kindled, diffusing the
brightest light.

This would be the place to introduce all that is mysterious, I should
say almost incomprehensible, in the decompositions effected by the
voltaic pile; to dwell upon the separate disengagements, completely
distinct, of the two disunited gaseous elements of aliquid, on the precipita-
tions of the constituent solid principles of the same saline molecule, which
are affected by the particles of the fluid dissolving at great distances from
each other; on the strange, wild commotions that these different phe-
nomena seemed to involve; but time failsme. However, before finish-
ing this picture, I will remark that the pile is not merely a means of
analysis; that if, by considerably changing the electrical affinities of
the elements of bodies, it often leads to their complete separation, its
power, delicately managed, has become, on the contrary, in the hands
of one of our fellow-members, the regenerative principle of a large num-
ber of combinations almost endless in nature and which art, up to this
time, knew not how to imitate.

I will add a few more words still, to point out the different modifica-
tions undergone by the pile since passing from the hands of its illustri-
cus inventor.

Lhe characteristic feature of the pile consists of a jarge number of
pairs, or, binary combinations, of dissimilar metais. These metals are
usually copper and zine; and these elements, the copper and zine of
each pair, can be soldered together.

The pairs follow in the same order. Thus when zine is below in the
first, it is indispensably necessary it should be below in all the others.
Finally the pairs must be separated by a liquid conductor of electricity.
Now, who cannot see how easy it is to fulfill these conditions without
superposing the elements, without forming them into a pile? This first
arrangement, which, by the way, was the origin of the name of the appa-
ratus, has been changed. The pairs are not now vertical, but succeed
each other so as to form as a whole a horizontal parallelopiped. Each
of them is immersed in a trough containing a liquid, which is a decided
improvement over the merely moist pieces of pasteboard or cloth used
in the beginning.

Apparatus have been constructed by several physicists under the
denomination of dry pile, which only comparatively may be so ealled, as
strictly speaking they do not deserve the name. The best known, those
ot Professor Zamboni, are composed of several thousands of disks of
paper, tinned on one side and covered on the other by a thin layer of
pulverized oxide of manganese, which is rendered adhesive by means
EULOGY ON ALEXANDER VOLTA. 135

of a paste of flour and milk. The disks, of course, being piled up in
the same order, their dissimilar surfaces, or, I should say, the tin and
manganese surfaces of two contiguous pairs, are in contact. Here, then,
we have the two metallic elements, of different kinds, which constitute
what were called pairs in the description of Volta’s first pile. With
regard to the intermediary conducting liquid, those who object to apply
the name of dry piles to those of Zamboni will discover the cause of the
humidity in the hygrometrical property always preserved by the paper
placed between each plate of tin and layer of powdered manganese.

The wonderful results obtained by physicists by means of voltaic
piles are owing undoubtedly, in a measure, to the remarkable improve-
ments introduced by them in the construction of these apparatus; but
the chief cause is the enormous dimensions they have succeeded in giv-
ing them. The metallic pairs in Volta’s first piles were scarcely larger
than a five-frane piece. In M. Children’s pile each element had a sur-
face of thirty-two English square feet. Volta, as well as can be dis-
covered from the analysis I have just given of his views, accounted for
the development of electricity by the mere contact of the two metals of
different natures constituting each pair. The liquid between them
simply performed the office of conductor. This theory, called the
theory of contact, was attacked at an early date by Fabroni, one of
Volta’s countrymen. He supposed that the oxidation of the metallic
surfaces of the pairs, induced by the liquid touching them, was the
principal cause of the phenomena of the pile. Wollaston, some time
after, developed this same idea with his usual sagacity. Davy sup-
ported it, in his turn, by ingenious experiments; and finally, to-day,
this chemical theory of the pile prevails almost unanimously among
physicists.

I hazarded the opinion, just now, with some timidity, that the pile
was the most marvellous instrument ever invented by the human mind.
If, in the enumeration you have just heard of its different properties,
my voice has not been altogether without power, I might now repeat
my first assertion and consider it thoroughly established.

According to some biographers, Volta’s brain, exhausted by long-
continued work, and especially by the production of the pile, refused to
furnish anything more. Others saw, in an obstinate silence of nearly
thirty years, only the effects of a puerile fear, which the illustrious
physicist had not the courage to overcome. He feared, it is said, that
on comparing his more recent researches with those on electricity by
contact, the public would immediately conclude that his mind was
weakened. These two explanations are doubtless very ingenious, but
they labor under the signal defect of being entirely superfluous. For
the pile was invented in 1800, and two ingenious essays, one on the
“Phenomenon of Hail,” (Le phénoméne de la gréle,) and the other on
the ‘‘ Periodicity of storms and the cold accompanying them,” (La
periodicité des orages et le froid qui les accompagne,) were not pub-
lished until six and seventeen years after.
136 EULOGY ON ALEXANDER VOLTA.

LIFE OF VOLTA—OFFICES FILLED BY HIM—HIS CHARACTER—HIS
DEATH.

GENTLEMEN: I have just displayed to your view a picture of Volta’s
brilliant career. I have tried to specify, in detail, the grand discoveries
with which this wonderful genius has enriched the physical sciences.
Nothing now remains, to carry out the usual form, but to relate briefly
the principal events of his public and private life.

The painful duties which devolved upon Volta, almost from earliest
youth, detained him in his native city till 1777. This year, for the first:
time, he left the picturesque banks of Lake Como and traveled through
Switzerland. His absence lasted several weeks, but was not marked
by any important event. At Berne, Volta visited the celebrated
Haller, who was fast bringing his life to a close by an immoderate use
of opium. Thence he went to Fernay, where every description of talent
was secure of a kind welcome. Our immortal countryman, in the long
conversation with which he honored the young professor, glanced at the
very numerous, rich, and varied depar tments of Italian literature, passed
in review the savants, poets, sculptors, and painters which adorn this
literature, with a superiority of views, a delicacy of taste, and a nicety
of judgment which left on Volta’s mind an indelible impression.

At Geneva, Volta formed a close friendship with the celebrated his-
torian of the Alps, a man most capable of appreciating his discoveries.
That was a great century, gentlemen, in which a traveler, in a day’s
journey, without losing sight of the Jura, could render homage to a
Saussure, a Haller, Jean-Jacques, and Voltaire.

Volta returned to Italy by way of Aigne-Belle, taking with him to his
countrymen that precious root, the potato, which, by proper cultivation,
would render a complete famine impossible. In Lombardy, where
frightful storms destroy in a few moments cereals distributed over a
vast region of country, an article of food, which develops, grows, aud
matures under the ground, sheltered from the ravages of hail, was an
inestimable gift to the whole population.

Volta had himself written a circumstantial account of Lis travels in
Switzerland ; but it was hidden in the archives of Lombardy. Its recent
publication is due to a custom which, in all probability, will not soon
be adopted in a certain country, where a writer has dared to designate
marriage as the most serious of comic things, without being*torn to
pieces for it. In Italy, where this act of our life is undoubtedly regarded
with more seriousness, each one, in his sphere of life, SATS to sig-

nalize it by some act for the general good of his fellow-citizens. It was
the marriage of M. Antoine Reina, of Milan, in 1827, which brought to
light Volta’s small work from the official portfolios of the government,
veritable catacombs, where, in all countries, heaps of treasures lie buried
forever.

Human institutions are so strange that the fortunes, the well-being,
the whole future of one of the greatest geniuses of whom Italy ean
EULOGY ON ALEXANDER VOLTA. 137

boast, were at the mercy of the administrator-general of Lombardy. I
suppose that the ruling powers, in selecting this functionary, were led
by their fastidiousness to require that a certain knowledge of finance
should be superadded to the quarterings of nobility imperiously pre-
scribed by etiquette ; and, notwithstanding, here was the man called on
to decide, decide, too, without appeal [from his judgment] whether Volta
deserved to be transferred to a wider theater, or, indeed, left a martyr
at the small school of Como, he should be deprived during his whole
life of costly accessories that certainly cannot supply the place of genius,
but invest it with great power. Let us be quick to acknowledge that
so far as Volta was concerned chance remedied the folly incident to such
a state of dependence. Comte de Firmian, the administrator, was a
friend to literature. The school of Pavia became the object of his
assiduous care. He founded there a professorship of physics, and in
1779 Volta was elected to fill it. For many years crowds of young men
from all countries thronged the lectures of the illustrious professor ;
there they learned, I will not say the details of science, for nearly all
works on the subject give these, but the philosophical history of the
principal discoveries ; the subtile correlations which escape ordinary in-
telligence, and a matter which very few individuals have the privilege
of divulging, the progress of discovery.

Volta’s style was lucid, unaffected, and sometimes monotonous, but al-
ways characterized by modesty and refinement ; qualities which, when
united to talents of the first order, are always attractive to youth.
In Italy, where the imagination is so easily excited, they produced a
genuine enthusiasm. The desire to boast before the world of the honor
of being a disciple of Volta, contributed vastly for more than the third
of acentury to the wonderful success of the University of the Tessin.

The proverbial far niente of the Italians is strictly true as to physical
exertion. They travel little, and among the very opulent families,
some are found so thoroughly Roman that not even the sublime erup-
tions of Vesuvius can tempt them from the fresh shades of their villas.
There are cultivated Florentines who have never seen Saint Peter’s and
the Coliseum except in engravings; Milanese who all their lives know
only from hearsay that, at some leagues distant, there is an immense
city and hundreds of magnificent palaces built in the sea. Volta him-
self only left the banks of his native Lario for the purpose of scientific
researches. Ido not think his travels in Italy extended as far as Na-
ples and Rome. If, in 1780, he crossed the Apennines to go from Bo-
logna to Florence, it was with the hope of finding an opportunity in the
fires of Pietra Mala, en route, of submitting his views on the origin of
natural inflammable gas to a decisive proof. If, in 1782, accompanied
by the celebrated Scarpa, he visited the capitals of Germany, Holland,
England, and France, it was to make the acquaintance of Lichtenberg,
Van Marum, Priestley, Laplace, and Lavoisier, and to enrich the labor-
atory of Pavia with certain instruments for investigation and demon-
Dip te) EULOGY ON ALEXANDER VOLTA.

stration, of which descriptions and drawings, even those best executed,
could give but an imperfect idea.

Accepting an invitation from General Bonaparte, the conqueror of
Italy, Volta returned to Paris in 1801. He there repeated his experi-
ments on electricity by contact, before a large committee of the Insti-
tute. The First Consul wished to be present at the meeting where the
committee were to give a detailed account of these wonderful phe-
nomena. Their conclusions were scarcely reached when he proposed
to confer upon Volta a gold medal to commemorate the gratitude of the
French scientists. Custom, or, we may add, academic regulations,
scarcely sanctioned such a request, but rules are made for ordinary
occasions, and the professor of Pavia had just placed himself outside of
this line The medal was therefore voted by acclamation, and as Bona-
parte did nothing by halves, the learned traveler received the same day,
from the public fund, the sum of 2,000 crowns to defray his traveling
expenses. The creation of a prize of 60,000 frances to be awarded to
him who would give to the sciences of electricity and magnetism an im-
pulse comparable to that received by the first of these sciences from Frank-
lin and Volta, is not a less characteristic evidence of the enthusiasin of
the great captain. Thisimpression was lasting. The professorof Pavia
became Napoleon’s type of genius. Thus, step by step, we see him dec-
orated with the crosses of the legion of honor and the iron crown, elected
member of the Italian consulate, and elevated to the dignity of count
and senator of the kingdom of Lombardy. When the Italian Institute
appeared at the palace, if Volta, accidentally, was not in the front
ranks, the abrupt questions, where is Volta; can he be sick; why did
he not come? proved, only too evidently, perhaps, that, in the eyes of the
sovereign, notwithstanding all their learning, the other members were
but mere satellites of the inventor of the pile. ‘I cannot consent,” said
Napoleon in 1804, “to Volta’s withdrawal. If his duties as professor
are too fatiguing, they must be lessened. Let him deliver but one
lecture during the year, if desired; but the University of Pavia would
receive its death-blow the moment I allowed so illustrious a name to dis-
appear from the list of its members; besides,” added he, ‘a good gen-
eral should die on the field of honor.” The good general. found the
argument unanswerable, and the youth of Italy, whose idol he was,
were thus enabled to enjoy a few more years of his delightful lectures.

Newton, during his parliamentary career, it is said, never spoke but
onee, and that was to ask the doorkeeper of the House of Commons to
close a window to prevent a current of air giving cold to an orator
when speaking. If the doorkeepers of Lyons, during the Italian consul-
ate, and those of the senate at Milan, had been less careful, Volta, per-
haps, from mere goodness of heart, if but for a moment, might have
overcome his extreme reserve; but the opportunity not offering, the
distinguished physicist will be inevitably classed with those personages
who, whether from timidity or indifference, during long revolutions, are
EULOGY ON ALEXANDER VOLTA. 13

members of the most animated popular assemblies without giving an
opinion or uttering a single word.

It has been said that happiness, like matter, is composed of impercept-
ible elements. If this idea of Franklin be correct, Volta was happy.
Entirely devoted, in spite of high political dignities, to his studies,
nothing disturbed his tranquillity. According to Solon’s law he would
have been exiled, for not one of tbe parties, for nearly a quarter
of a century agitating Lombardy, could boast of numbering him in its
ranks. The illustrious professor’s name only re-appeared after the
storm as an ornament to the existing authorities. Even in his most
private intimacies Volta had the greatest aversion to any conversation
relating to public matters. He did not hesitate, as soon as there was
an opening, to cut it short by one of those witticisms or puns, called in
Italy freddure and in France calembour. But, it must be confessed,
practice here did not make perfect, as several of the freddure of the
great physicist, not considered unworthy of being quoted, are far from
being as irreproachable as his experiments.

Volta was married in 1794, at the age of forty-nine, to Mademoiselle
Thérese Peregrini. He had three sons, two surviving him and the other
dying at the age of eighteen, just when he had given promise of the
most brilliant talents. This was the only sorrow, I believe, our philos-
opher ever experienced during the whole of his long career. His dis-
coveries were too brilliant, without any doubt, not to have aroused
envy, but it never dared attack them, even under its most usual dis-
guise, as it never questioned their novelty.

Contentions with regard to priority have been the torments of invent-
ors in all ages. Spite, the sentiment to which it usually gives rise, it is
not fastidious in the choice of its means of attack. When evidence is
wanting, sarcasm becomes its favorite weapon, and it but too often
possesses the cruel power of rendering it most cutting. It is related
that Harvey, who had manfully resisted the numerous criticisms of
wnhich his discoveries had been the object, totally lost courage when cer-
tain adversaries, under pretense of concession, declared that they would
concede to him the merit of having circulated the circulation of the blood.
Let us congratulate ourselves, gentlemen, that Volta was never exposed
to such contentions; let us congratulate his countrymen on having
guarded him from them. The Bolognese school, for a long time, un-
doubtedly upheld the doctrine of animal electricity. Honorable senti-
ments of nationality induced them to desire that Galvani’s discovery
should remain entire; that it should not form a part of the grand phe-
nomena of voltaic electricity as a peculiar clause; and yet they never
alluded to the voltaic phenomena but with admiration. Never did an
Italian mouth pronounce the name of the inventor of the pile without
coupling it with the most unequivocal terms of esteem and profound
respect, and without prefixing a word most expressive in its simplicity
and especially sweet to the ears of a fellow-citizen; from Rovérédo to
140 EULOGY ON ALEXANDER VOLTA.

Messina, educated people always spoke of the physicist of Pavia as
nostro Volta.

I have mentioned the honors conferred upon him by Napoleon. All
the great universities of Europe had invited him to join them. Of the
eight foreign members of the institute, he belonged to the first rank.
So many honors never once excited in Volta’s soul a sensation of pride.
The small village of Como was always his favorite place of residence.
The tempting and often repeated offers from Russia could not induce him
to exchange the beautiful skies of Lombardy for the fogs of the Neva.

The predominant traits of the illustrious professor were strength and
quickness of mind, comprehensiveness and justness of views, and truth
and warmth of nature. No act of bis life was ever prompted by ambi-
tion, love of money, or a spirit of rivalry. The love of study, his ruling
and only passion, remained through life pure and unspotted by the
world.

Volta was tall, with features as noble and regular as those of
an antique statue; his broad brow was deeply furrowed by profound
meditation and his countenance expressed both tranquillity of soul and
penetration of mind. His manners always retained traces of the rus-
ticity contracted in his youth. Many persons remember having seen
him in Paris every day enter the baker’s, and afterward, while walking
the streets, eat the large rolls which he had just bought, without seem-
ing to suspect that any one would remark it. I will be pardoned, I
hope, so many minute particulars. Has not Fontenelle related that
Newton had a thick suit of hair, never wore spectacles, and never lost
but one tooth? Names so great justify and ennoble the most minute
details. When, in 1819, Volta finally resigned the trust with which
he had been invested at the University of the Tessin, he retired to Como.
From this time all his relations with the scientific world ceased. He
rarely received any of the numerous travelers who, attracted by his
great reputation, came to pay him homage.

In 1823 a slight attack of apoplexy developed very serious symptoms ;
but prompt remedies soon succeeded in relieving him. Tour years after,
in 1827, in the beginning of March, the venerable old man was attacked
by a fever, which, in the course of a few days, deprived him of his remain-
ing strength. On the 5th of the same month he expired without suffer-
ing, at the age of eighty-two years and fifteen days.

Como celebrated Volta’s obsequies with great pomp. The professors
and students of the college, and all the friends of science, and the
educated inhabitants of the village and its environs, hastened to accom-
pany to their last resting-place the mortal remains of the illustrious
scientist, the charitable citizen, and the man exemplary in all his
domestic relations. The beautiful monument erected to his memory,
near the picturesque village of Camnago, the native place of Volta’s
family, is a striking testimony of the sincerity of their regrets, and
finally all Italy participated in the mourning of the Milanese.
EULOGY ON ALEXANDER VOLTA. 141

On this side of the Alps the feeling excited was much less intense.
Those who may think this strange, must remember that on the same
day, almost at the same hour, France lost the author of ‘ La Mécanique
Céleste.” Volta, for six years, had lived solely in his family. His active
mind was almost gone. The names electrophorus and condenser, and
even that of the pile, no longer possessed the power of making his
heart beat. Laplace, on the contrary, retained up to his last hour
that energy and activity of mind, that passionate love of scientific dis-
coveries, which for more than half a century rendered him the soul of
your reunions. When death surprised him, at the age of seventy-eight,
he was publishing a sequel to the fifth volume of his great work. On
reflecting on the immensity of such a loss, all will acknowledge, I doubt
not, that there is great injustice in reproaching the academy for hav-
ing at the first moment concentrated all its thoughts on the fatal blow
it had just received. As for myself, gentlemen, I have never misunder-
stood your sentiments, and my only fear now is my inability to do all
the justice you desire to the immeasurable services rendered to science
by the illustrious professor of Pavia. I flatter myself, however, it will
not be imputed to a want of conviction. In moments of pleasing rev-
ery, When passing in review all contemporary productions, any one can
select, according to his habits, tastes, and bent of mind, without much
discrimination, which one of these productions he would prefer to be
the author of, “ La Mécanique Céleste” or the voltaic pile; at the same
time and always on the same level, they have presented themselves to
my mind. An academician devoted to the study of the stars could not
possibly give a more striking proof of the profound admiration which
the immortal discoveries of Volta always inspired.

The place of foreign member, made vacant by Volta’s death, was
filled by Dr. Thomas Young. The academic corps is happy, gentlemen,
when forced to recruit its ranks, to be able to succeed genius to genius.
THE PROBABLE FUTURE OF THE HUMAN RACE.

[From the History of Science and of Savants, by Alphonse de Candolle.—Translated {for
the Smithsonian Institution. }

It is not difficult to point out certain probabilities concerning the
future destiny of the human race. This is, in some respects, deter-
mined naturally, but is wanting neither in importance nor interest.

In order to examine the question properly, it is necessary to bear in
mind three principles: Ist, organized beings endowed with will and the
faculty of locomotion always seek to adapt themselves to the cireum-
stances in which they are placed, and none do so more effectually than
man, on account of his superior intelligence; 2d, the individuals of the
human species that are the least able to accommodate themselves to
their circumstances are most liable to perish, or at least to leave a small
number of descendants, so that populations are principally recruited by
the individuals that possess the qualities best adapted to the circum-
stances of the country and the age in which they live; 3d, the violent
contests between nations and individuals accelerate modifications and
adaptations to new circumstances. The application of these laws com-
pels us first to consider, as far as we are able, the circumstances, more
or less immediate, in which our successors will probably find themselves.

If we take into consideration a near future, of a few centuries for ex-
ample, or of a thousand years, we may anticipate a certain degree of
stability in the physical conditions, general and even local, which affect
the human species; at least, judging from the past, this seems to be
highly probable. Climates have not changed since the time of the oldest
historic documents. The configurations of the surface of the earth have
been very little altered. Undoubtedly, geology shows us’ that there
have been great changes, but ordinarily these took place very slowly.
The supposition of a continuation of the present physical conditions
during several generations of man is then presumable. Now, with the
present conditions very nearly the same, it is easy to foresee two phe-
nomena: Ist, the land will be more thickly inhabited, since certain
very active and robust nations have sufficient intelligence to cross the
seas, and, above all, because in every country the population constantly
tends to increase; in other words, the men of our time will adapt them-
selves more and more to the conditions of existence offered them in their

own country and elsewhere, these conditions involving an immense aug-
142
THE PROBABLE FUTURE OF THE HUMAN RACE. a5

mentation of tke general population of the globe; 2d, the continua
transportation and passage of men from one part of the world to another
will produce more and more frequent mingling of the races. Here,
also, certain probabilities may be foreseen.

The races inferior in number, strength, physical condition, or intelli-
gence must either disappear or be mingled with the races which are
superior to them in all these qualities. Like the Australians, many of
the races which inhabit the islands of the Pacific Ocean, the Hottentots,
the natives of some parts of America, must disappear, in view of the
impossibility of their struggling successfully against other nations,
either in war or peace. The races less inferior, but not very active, of
Mexico, Peru, and some parts of Asia, have already mingled with their
conquerors, so as to constitute intermediate populations. But there are
three principal races, endowed with admirable qualities for invasion,
which will mix with the inferior races more or less according to Jocal
circumstances. ‘These three principal races are: the white race, repre-
sented particularly by the Europeans and their American descendants;
the yellow race, represented chiefly by the Chinese and the Japanese;
and the negro race. The first has the advantage in intelligence, but it
does not so well endure warm climates as the other two. The emigra-
tion of the whites to the equatorial countries will undoubtedly continue,
but their offspring will be decimated in these warm regions, while those
of the negroes and the Chinese will generally survive. Even the adults
of the white race with difficulty endure the heat of southern countries.
The mixed races will be at less disadvantage in the torrid zone than
the white; but if the natural selection takes place in favor of the more
colored individuals, the latter will at last prevail, in spite of all min-
gling. On the other hand, the negro race will not prosper in cold coun-
tries, and even the half-breeds do not bear a rigorous climate as well as
the whites. In spite, then, of the mingling of the races, we may predict
a continual predominance of the negroes in the equatorial, and of the
whites in the colder regions. The Chinese alone seem at once suffi-
ciently intelligent and robust to struggle in all latitudes with both these
races. They are already numerous, and have commenced to emigrate.
On account of their psychical and physiological qualities, and also their
ingenuity and inquisitiveness, they ought to supplant the other races;
but they lack courage, and are not trustworthy. The whites of Europe
and of the United States will sustain the struggle, thanks to their
habitual bravery, their facility of comprehension, and the confidence
they can place in each other. The negroes also will prevail on account
of their physical vigor. The mingling of the three principal races will
not, however, be complete. There will be many and every degree of
hybrid or mixed races; but in Africa, in China, and in the north of our
hemisphere, the primitive races will probably continue to predominate
for many centuries.

Let us now consider a future more remote, for example of fifty thou-
144 THE PROBABLE FUTURE OF THE HUMAN RACE.

sand, one hundred thousand, or even of several hundred thousands of
years. It is still possible to foresee for these distant times certain ten-
dencies and certain conditions of the human species. We should, how-
ever, bear in mind that which renders doubtful even the most plausible
suppositions. For a lapse of time so prolonged, we cannot tell whether
some great terrestrial or cosmical event may not change absolutely
external conditions. Our globe may experience depressions and eleva-
tions which may alter entirely the nature of the habitable surface.
New diseases may be manifested among men of which we have now no
idea. These maladies may destroy a whole race or even affect the
entire human species. Astronomers have shown us that the variations
of the plane of the ecliptic and of the eccentricity of the earth’s orbit
are not of a mature to produce any sensible change in climates. In
stating this fact, however, Mr. Croll* is compelled to admit that the
accumulation of ice, the effect of the latter cause acting alternately
upon the north and upon the south pole, must produce changes in the
currents and in the dominant winds, which must be followed by changes
in climate in all parts of the world. There must have been several
glacial periods in each hemisphere. The least ancient in the northern
hemisphere must have commenced about two hundred and forty thou-
sand and ended about eighty thousand years ago. Sir Charles Lyellt
has disputed the opinions of Mr. Croll, and according to him the perio-
dicity of the glacial periods must be very uncertain. Still we cannot
overlook the possibility of such events, the effect of which would be to
drive all organized beings from each polar region toward the temper-
ate zones, and those of the temperate regions to the equatorial, produc-
ing naturally the extinction of many species, and as regards man of
many races.

Finally, who can foresee what may happen to our entire solar system?
It is moving with great rapidity in a certain direction. Perhaps some
time it may come into some part of the universe much warmer or colder
than the space it has passed through for several millions of years. The
sun, also, may change. Events such as these may destroy not only
man but all the organized beings of our globe.

Setting aside these hypothetical cases, which are beyond the power of
science to foresee, let us pass to facts which are, on the contrary, abso-
lutely certain.

The effect of the oxygen of the air, and the incessant action of human
labor, is diminishing the quantity of metals and of coal, accessible with-
out too much effort, on the surface of the earth. Undoubtedly, the
genius of savants will discover processes for working mines to greater
depths, and for profiting by the metallic oxides distributed through the
soil. New combustibles also may be discovered, but they can never be
as advantageous as those we now enjoy, and the metallic dust, as for

= Croll, in Edinburgh Philosophical Magazine, 1867 and 1868.
i Sir Charles Lyell, Principles of Geology, latest edition.
THE PROBABLE FUTURE OF THE HUMAN RACE. 145

example that of worn iron, which is everywhere scattered on the earth,
will be much more difficult to obtain than the primitive accumulations
of to-day. There must be necessarily a diminution of population as
these essential resources become rare and more and more inaccessible,
until finally they are quite exhausted. The people will then be in a
most unhappy condition. There will be no railroads, no steamboats,
nothing which requires coal or metal. Their industries will gradually
be reduced as copper and iron become scarce. Certain populations at
once sedentary and agricultural, living in the warm countries and able
to content themselves with little, will then be the best adapted to the
general circumstances of the globe. At the tropics, therefore, and in
the vicinity of the great accumulations of coal in the United States,
populations will remain longest collected in masses. The rarity of the
wetals, however, will be a cause of decadence, even in these privileged
localities.

Another change, slower but equally sure, is the diminution of terres-
trial surfaces, and particularly the lowering of elevated regions, by the
incessant action of water, of ice, and of air. For thousands of years,
every stream, every river, has carried toward the ocean solid particles
detached from these heights, and this slow process must continue. The
mean lowering of continents has been calculated from the ooze of the
principal rivers, supposing proportions to be constant. Such calcula-
tions, however, rest upon conditions too variable to merit much confi-
dence; but the tendency of the change is certain. Upon high mountains
and in the polar regions, glaciers corrode the hardest rocks and carry
solid substances to the rivers. Less elevated surfaces are in like man-
ner depressed by the action of water. The ooze is finally transferred to
the bottom of the seas; and as the latter have already an extent much
greater than the land and a depth surpassing the elevation of the high-
est mountains, it is clear that the solid land habitable by man will dimin-
ish relatively to the liquid surface. In other words, the bottom of the
seas is filling up in part and the surface must rise more or less, if we
suppose the liquid mass constant. At the same time, for several centu-
ries the additions to certain coasts may be considered equal to the ero-
sions of others, and partial elevations counteracted by equal depressions.

Thus, independent of abnormal events, which it is impossible to fore-
see, all existing phenomena indicate that the islands and continents
must first diminish in elevation, then in extent, and we may predict that
in some far distant future a very nearly complete submersion of terres-
trial surfaces will take place, and consequently a destruction more or less
complete of all organized beings, vegetable and animal, which live upon
these surfaces, or even in fresh waters. The human species, on account
‘of superior intelligence, may survive longer than the others; but they
also will then be near their end, since they will be able to live only upon
boats, and there will be neither wood nor metal of which these can be
constructed. The submersion of continents will probably not be general,

S. Mis. 115——10
146 THE PROBABLE FUTURE OF THE HUMAN RACE. ,

and volcanic or coral islands forming, there will remain a few points
inhabited by man ; but of the isolation of their condition it is difficult to
form an idea.

Before this extreme period, that events impossible to predict may
still further remove, we should imagine the human species deprived
gradually of the treasures of coal and the metals to-day within reach,
and obliged to cuncentrate themselves upon terrestrial surfaces less in
extent and insulated, as they apparently have already existed in very
ancient geological times. The scarcity of the combustibles and of the
metals would render communication difficult. The depression of the
mountain-chains would diminish the condensation of aqueous vapors,
and increase the extent of sterile regions, and countries now fertile would
become like those in the interior of Australia. During this period, the
populations would greatly diminish, but intelligence and morality, per-
haps, having increased, this reduction would not be produced, as now,
by a frightful mortality among the improvident, and still more horrible
accessories, such as infanticide and war. Man may be, for example, in
such a condition as to be able to control the proportion of masculine and
feminine births, which is not at all improbable, according to the exam-
ple of other organized species. The result would be an increasing
rarity of females, and a considerable diminution of births.

In proportion as the continents, deprived of mountains, become dry
in the interior, or divided into archipelagoes, the people will become
more and more maritime. From the sea they will be obliged to draw
the greater part of the means of subsistence; but they will have to
struggle against the encroachments of its waves. The intelligent and
persevering will then be the best adapted to the circumstances ; and, in
spite of their isolation, and the difficulties of navigation, they may still
prosper. They may even enjoy the well-being which results from a
peaceable existence ; for at this time, without metals or combustibles, it
would be difficult to form squadrons to dominate the seas, and grand
armies to ravage the land.

The mingling of the old races will be arrested by the separation of
the terrestrial surfaces into small portions, and by the increasing diffi-
culty of communication. What remains of the at present three princi-
pal races will probably be greatly dispersed. The islands of the north-
ern and southern regions being exposed to the more or less periodical
invasion of ice, and having no contiguity with lands better situated, the
white race, which will have continued longer here than in the equatorial
regions, will be that which will suffer the most. In the central archi-
pelagoes, the colored races, remaining as pure as at present, on account
of natural selection during their long isolation, will fare better.

To recapitulate, our period and that which will follow for the next ’
thousand years will be characterized by a great increase in population,
a mingling of races, and a prosperity more or less marked. Then will
probably follow a long period of diminution of population, of separation of
THE PROBABLE FUTURE OF THE HUMAN RACE. 147

the people, and of decadence. Is not this what generally happens when
there is a struggle between different influences? Fixed, certain causes
increase or diminish slowly. We find to-day that many animal species
have become extinct. They at first became rare. Often driven from
their habitations, from place to place, they were at last reduced to a
single district, where some cause, perhaps a very unimportant one,
ended their existence. In former times, if we can judge sufficiently
from geological data, the living species have had a period of abundance
and extension followed by one of rarity and limitation. The human
species will describe in the same way a sort of curve, the extremes of
which escape our powers of observation, while the mean part power-
fully excites our attention. We know that one of these extremes has
already existed; we foresee the time when man will occupy all the habita-
ble surface of the earth, and will have consumed that which is now found
accumulated by a long series of geological events. Without much
imagination, we can then foresee the other part of the curve, tending to
some final point in the far future. Such are the probabilities according
to the existing state of things; but the longer the time considered, the
more it is necessary to admit the possibility of events unknown, un-
foreseen, impossible even to be foreseen, which may introduce entirely
different conditions.

In these suppositions or reflections I am at variance with Messrs.
Spencer and Galton in their writings upon this subject. Mr. Spencer*
speaks very little of the physical conditions to which man will be sub-
ject. He mentions only the alternation of ice at the two poles as neces-
sarily in time displacing man. Notwithstanding the calculations and
the hypothesis of Mr. Croll, this is perhaps the least certain and the
least important of the material modifications which the human species
will encounter. The increasing rarity of coal and the metals is much
more evident, much nearer at hand, especially the rarity of such depos-
its of coal as are easily attained. As to the modifications of man him-
self, produced through variability, competition, and the selection which
results, Mr. Spencer analyzes the question with skill, but, in my opinion,
not completely. The struggle, he says, becomes from century to century
more active on account of the increase of the population, and the prog-
ress of science, industry, and commerce, which compels individuals to
seek more knowledge and to exert greater effort. There will be, on this
account, probably a more and more marked development of the intel-
lectual faculties, (vol. ii, pp. 496, 499,) and also those of morality, (p. 497.)
From these new intellectual and moral conditions, he says, there will
result a less degree of fecundity, which will become another source of
moral and intellectual progress.

Mr. Galtont reasons very nearly the same as Mr. Spencer in what
concerus the probable intellectual development; only he fears that the

* Herbert Spencer’s Principles of Biology, vol. ii, book 6, ch. 13.
t Galton, Hereditary Genius, pp. 336-362.
148 THE PROBABLE FUTURE OF THE HUMAN RACE.

amelioration of the faculties in the races already advanced will not be
effected with sufficient rapidity to keep pace with the growing needs of
a civilization which increases enormously. After having proved the
extinction of several savage races through the simple effect of a strug-
gle they could not sustain against the white race, he adds:* ‘ We also,
the promoters of an advanced civilization, we begin to show that we are
incapable of progressing intellectually with the same rapidity as the
demands which are made upon us. The needs of centralization, of
communication, and of culture demand more brain and more mental
energy than our race possess. There is loud demand for greater capa-
city in every social position. Neither statesmen, savants, artisans, nor
Jaborers are entirely equal to the present complications of their differ-
ent professions. .... Our race is overburdened; it seems about to
degenerate, because its requirements are greater than its means. When
the struggle for existence is not too great for the strength of a race, it is
beneficial and conservative, otherwise it is mortal.”

We may doubt some of these assertions. For example, centralization
does not complicate ; it simplifies. There is, in fact, as much prevision
required, as many difficulties to surmount, as much energy employed in
the management of a number of small workshops, a number of small
independent populations, as in the control, by a single order, of thou-
sands of workmen and thousands of inhabitants. The division of labor
also simplifies, and this always augments with civilization. It has been
said, however, in regard to this, that the powers of the mind are weak-
ened when each individual thinks only of a single thing. In this point
of view, such division in highly-civilized populations is a hinderance to
intellectual development.

In general, the two authors I have just quoted, while making remarks
very just, sometimes very original and worthy of attention, appear to
me to have somewhat forgotten the inequality of development of differ-
ent classes and people, as well as’ the numerous causes which lead to a
selection, in the bad sense of the term, or to the arrest of a selection.
History, moreover, is in accord with theory in showing to what degree
the advance of intelligence and morality is irregular and doubtful, even
during the lapse of several thousands of years. From the time of Socra-
tes to that of Lavoisier, how many eminent men have died a miserable
death, victims of the force and ignorance of the many! How many cul-
tivated populations have disappeared! How many savage invasions
have occurred! Ido notrefer only to those which destroyed the Roman
empire, but also to the despicable Chinese and other invasions in the
civilized countries of to-day. Mr. Spencer admits with reason? that a
development of the nervous system has the effect of diminishing the
additions to population, and, as he considers such a development proba-
ble, sees in it a double cause of satisfaction for the future. Populations
will thus tend to become stationary as to number just as they have

*Page 345. t Page 506.
THE PROBABLE FUTURE OF THE HUMAN RACE. 149

covered the terrestrial surface with very intelligent individuals. But
from this happy period, and even, I suppose, during this period, there
will be some families less intelligent and less provident than others.
These will make the greatest additions to the population, and their num-
bers constantly renewed will greatly affect the supposed progression of
intelligence, to say nothing of other causes of arrest.

In order to comprehend the probable facts in all their significance,
and to connect them with the laws of selection, it is absolutely neces-
sary, lst, to attribute a major importance to the material circumstances,
which must be manifested from the present time during several thou-
sands of years; 2d, to apply the principle of the theory of Mr. Darwin to
the human species. I call the principle of the theory the forced adap-
tation of organized beings to surrounding circumstances of every kind,
the result of which is that the modifications preserved are sometimes
good, sometimes bad—that is, according to our human conception of
what is good or bad. We may form an idea in regard to goodness and
perfection, but the course of events may not be in accordance with this
idea, since many obstacles may intervene during a series of several
thousands of years. The world to-day is occupied by an infinite num-
ber of vegetable and animal species, partially developed and imperfect,
if the complication of organs and the division of functions can be con-
sidered imperfections. These inferior beings are adapted to the cir-
cumstances which now exist. They are better adapted to these circum-
stances than others we call superior, and it will be so perhaps for an
immense series of centuries. We may say the same of human races
and families. The rudest are sometimes the best adapted to certain
conditions. Thus, the negroes perfectly resist equatorial climates, and
in our civilized countries there are debased populations which accom-
modate themselves to miserable conditions of life such as others could
not at all endure.

If men content with little did not exist, they would be formed by vari-
ability and selection. We do not know to what extent frugality and
indifference to comfort might be carried in the human race, if it were
not for the intervention of police-regulations and public opinion. Ac-
cording to what has been related of Hindoo and Egyptian agriculturists,
long-continued hardship produces a granivorous or frugivorous race,
smgularly economical and very fruitful. In our great cities of Europe,
notwithstanding the severity of climate, we should find families estab-
lished in damp, subterranean abodes, under bridges, even in sewers, and
adapting themselves to the conditions of existence by the premature
death of the most feeble, if tie will of other men did not interfere. Fur-
thermore, coarse and immoral individuals are unfortunately adapted to
certain conditions of civilized countries, such as revolutions, robbery,
unjust appropriation of property by needy legislators, wars without suf-
ficient grounds, aggressive, &c., while other individuals are adapted to
conditions moral, wise, just, &c., which at the same time exist. If at
150 THE PROBABLE FUTURE OF THE HUMAN RACE.

any time there should be more intelligent, and consequently more prov-
ident, men than now, there would also be among them, or in association
with them, others less intelligent and less provident, who would appro-
priate their goods and disregard their rights. Optimism is very seductive,
since it has power to mislead even the most practical of men,* but it is not
in conformity with the facts of the past nor the probable facts of the future.
If we judge only from known and credible conditions, selection in a good
sense affects the human race in a very doubtful, temporary, and slow
way. It would then be a fallacy to construct, upon the basis of the
modern ideas of naturalists, the theory of indefinite improvement,
adopted by certain French philosophers of the last century. An atten-
tive study of the works of Mr. Darwin allows no conclusion in this direc-
tion, and the opinion of certain writers should be guarded against,} that
the often-to-be-regretted tendency of the human species is an objection
to the law of selection.

*See the Utopia with which Mr. Biichner ends his fourth lecture, (trad. pauc., p. 178.)

tIn Fraser’s Magazine for September, 1868, there is an article, not signed, but the
author of which has been indicated by Mr. Darwin,(Descent of Man, I, p. 167,) entitled
“Failure of natural selection in the case of man.” The facts given by the author are,
on the contrary, an exact and extended application of the law of selection. Mr. Dar-
win has never believed that moral progress must be the necessary result of selection.
(See Descent of Man, I, pp. 166, 177, and elsewhere.)
REPORT ON THE TRANSACTIONS OF THE SOCIETY OF PHYSICS
Ta RAL HISTORY OF GENEVA FROM JULY, 1878, TO
JULY, 1874.

By Pror. M. A. DE CANDOLLE, PRESIDENT.

[Translated for the Smithsonian Institution by M. A. HENRY. ]

GENTLEMEN: It is customary to divide this report into two parts,
one appropriated to personal matters, and especially to the notice of the
members deceased during the year, the other to the labors of the society.
In this case the first part must unhappily be long, but in view of the
serious losses sustained, you will find, Iam sure, that I have not entered

too much in detail.
I.—NECROLOGICAL NOTICES.

We have this year lost three of our ordinary members, Messrs. Alexan-
dre Prevost, Gosse, and de la Rive, and four of our honorary members,
Agassiz, Ramon de la Sagra, Fée, and Quetelet.

Alexandre-Pierre Prevost, doctor of sciences, was grandson of the
professor of philosophy and physicist, Pierre Prevost. He made good
progress in his studies at Geneva, and completed them by a sojourn at
Berlin. The branch with which he was principally occupied in the lat-
ter city was animal physiology. Certain circumstances, easy to compre-
hend, induced him to enter into a banking-house of considerable note
in London, which had for a long time been under the direction of his
father and his uncles, but his health was affected by the climate of Eng-
land, and after a few years he returned to Geneva. His scientific tastes
then revived and were stimulated by the encouragement of his near
relatives, and by his father-in-law, M. Auguste de la Rive. He published
in the quarto Mémoires of our society (vol. xi) researches upon the ner-
vous system of the head of the conger; in 1843 in the Bibliotheque Uni-
verselle, and in 1859 in the Archives, which supplemented the scientific part
of the same journal, two memoirs upon binocular vision; in the Archives ot
the same year, 1859, an essay upon the mathematical theory of music, not
tospeak of numerous articles, such as reviewsor criticisms in this journal,
of which he was one of the editors. Alexandre Prevost served our
society for a long time as secretary, and was always explicit and exact
in the conscientious discharge of the duties of the office. He died on
the 21st of July, 1873, in England, after a long illness, at the age of
only fifty-two years.

Dr. Andre-Louis Gosse was son of Henry-Albert Gosse, that savant, so

full of enthusiasm and originality, who, with the founders of the Helvetic
151
152 TRANSACTIONS OF THE SOCIETY OF PHYSICS AND

Society of Natural Sciences, in 1815 conceived first the idea of forming
a scientific society which should meet, like the British Association, in a
different place every year.* Andre-Louis Gosse inherited many of the
good qualities of his father. He, jike him, displayed throughout his life
an extraordinary zeal for the good of his fellow-men. His studies, his
travels, his medical practice, his conversation, his writings, were inspired
by this feeling ; and no one could converse with him and not be affected
by the influence of his generous sentiments. While he was still a stu-
dent at Paris, and soon after, in 1816, a young practitioner, his courage
was put to the test in the hospital at Geneva, where several physi-
cians had died of a severe typhus fever introduced by the armies. On
the return of peace, wishing to obtain a knowledge of the clinics of Italy,
Germany, and England, and also to gain more experience of life, he
traveled for three years always ina private carriage, on horseback, or
on foot. In these expeditions he carried his observations into all classes
of society, and even submitted to serious privations in order to gain the
confidence of the miserable peasants of some of the countries he visited.
While in Edinburgh he made known to the medical corps of that city a
double-current catheter of his invention, which since, through mistake,
has been attributed to Jules Cloquet. On his return home, and having
acquired a satisfactory practice, Gosse was seized with the enthusiasm
then manifested in Geneva in favor of the independence of Greece. He
offered his services gratuitously tothe committee of arrangements, and
started at the most critical moment in the history of the contest to lend
his aid and assistance in the organization for the supply of ambulances
and military hospitals. The energy he displayed was of great value to
this unfortunate country—the seat of war, of pestilence, and moral dis-
order.

This work completed, he had entered again, not without difficulty,
into the practice of medicine, when another occasion of self-devotion
was presented to him. The Swiss federal authorities were alarmed by
the invasion of the north of Europe by cholera. This was in 1831,
the time of the first prevalence of the epidemic, and very little was
known of this mysterious and frightful disease. Gosse volunteered to
study it from actual observation, and completed the undertaking “ sans
peur et sans reproche.” His knowledge thus acquired was not, however,
practically applied, for Switzerland never became a prey to the true
cholera epidemic. Atter such examples of courage and selt-abnegation
it is hardly necessary to add that Gosse never recoiled from any duty,
either as citizen or physician. He also manifested great zeal in the
gratuitous care of the poor, in diminishing drunkenness, in ameliorating
the condition of prisons, as well as in acting as mediator, although
without success, in the unhappy political divisions of the country.

* The German Society of Naturalists and Physicians was instituted in imitation of
the Swiss society. The British Association, the Society of the Scienzati, of Italy, and
others of a similar character, were formed later.
NATURAL HISTORY OF GENEVA. 153

Dr. Gosse published a volume upon the diseases he called, in a gen-
eral way, “Rhumatdides ;” another entitled *‘ Medical and Philosophical
Examination of the Penitentiary System ;” an account of the pestilence
which reigned in Greece in 1827 and 1828; a monograph of the valuable
shrub called Hrythroxylon Coca, and a number of articles or pamphlets
upon the régime of prisons, quarantines, economical fermented drinks,
Turkish baths, various questions of hygiene, the deformations of the
skull practiced among certain nations, ancient and modern, and other
subjects of anthropology. His activity expended itself upon a great
number of subjects, either of immediate practical utility or of theory.
Any ill effects of this discursiveness were obviated by a peculiar power
he bad of being completely absorbed, for a time, by each subject.
The various questions which engaged his attention were not mingled in
his mind; they succeeded each other, and, when pre-occupied with an
idea, he pursued it with indefatigable ardor. This is not the system of
the constant application of specialists to a single branch, nor is it that of
the diffusion of force upon several simultaneous studies which so rarely
produces good effects. The activity of our honorable colleague was
continued until the age of eighty-two years. He died in the full pos-
session of his faculties on the 24th of October, 1873.

In a scientific point of view the greatest loss we have experienced this
year has been that of our illustrious president, Auguste de la Rive.
His place cannot be supplied among us, for his influence was due to
many very varied conditions which are seldom found united: superior
intelligence, a decisive and controlling will, a benevolent disposition, an
ardent desire to enlighten and direct, and a peculiarly advantageous
social position and relations, both within and without the country. Such
a combination explains why in our re-unions he was so frequently what
the English call a leader.

30rn at Geneva, on the 4th of October, 1801, De la Rive pursued his
studies in the old academy. Before the law of 1825, the instruction in
that institution was very incomplete. The young men desirous to learn
were themselves obliged to supply deficiencies; but does not a man, if
he wishes to do so, find in himself a good master? De la Rive had,
moreover, in his family an inappreciable advantage. His father,* a man
of intelligence and originality, had a great love for chemistry. He
taught it voluntarily, although a member of the higher administration
of the country. In his laboratory or in his parlor were constantly found
distinguished savans whose conversation was well calculated to excite
the zeal of a young man: Berzelius, Davy, Faraday, Ampere, Arago,
without mentioning the illustrious men of Geneva, spoken of by our
colleague in so interesting a manner in his notice of Augustus Pyramus
de Candolle. To learn the results of their labors, to hear their discus-

“Gaspard de la Rive, syndic, doctor and professor. See his biography by Vaucher,
Bibliotheque UOniverselle, March, 1334.
154 TRANSACTIONS OF THE SOCIETY OF PHYSICS AND

sions, and realize early that a man devoted to science is not an exceptional
being, but that any one may enter into the parsuit of knowledge with-
out necessarily considering himself a genius, was the highest kind of
teaching, was a stimulus both intellectual and moral.

Auguste dela Rive profited so well by his advantages that at the age
of twenty-three years he was able to present himself as a candidate for
a situation as professor of physics, which had just been created, and ob-
tained it, after passing through the preliminary competition for it with
distinction. This was a fortunate circumstance for him. Without this
nomination, which attached him definitely to one branch of science, he
might perhaps have allowed himself to be diverted into many direc-
tions. He was much interested in politics, local and general. He would
have been solicited to enter the administration, and would probably
have consented. Thanks to his election he concentrated his activity
upon the teaching and the development of a particular science. He oc-
cupied himself very actively with the organization and direction of pub-
lic instruction. As rector of the academy, and professor, he exercised
over his colleagues and the youth under his care a very important influ-
ence. Politics, properly so called, became in his life only a secondary
interest. Once only his tastes in this direction attained ascendency over
him, when, on account of extreme distress, in my opinion legitimate,
caused by a revolution, he resigned his office of professor in order to
tender his services to his country, although all his colleagues, as well
as the ecclesiastics and judges, less influenced by political ideas, con
sidered themselves quite independent of all vicissitudes of public order
De la Rive then accepted a temporary mission for Switzerland to the
English government, and the charge, also temporary, of deputy to a
constituent assembly. This was, however, but an episode. We may
say that above all else his time and heart were consecrated to science,
his friends, and his family. Working during the morning in his labora-
tory, he afterward exercised a liberal hospitality either at his country-
residence, Presinge, or at his house in Geneva. Notwithstanding the
interest these details must have for those who knew De la Rive, I must
return to what constituted his claim to renown, his scientific labors.
These were already worthy of attention during the years 1824 to 1828,
before he had especially directed his researches to the subject of elec-
tricity.

We all know how deep and unalterable was the friendship which existed
between Auguste de Ja Rive and our colleague, Francois Marcet. These
two friends made in company during the years I have mentioned several
journeys to Paris and London, and in the intervals occupied themselves
with scientific labors. Their investigations in regard to the specific heat
of gases were important, since the subsequent experiments of Regnault

*Mémoires de la Société de physique et @histoire naturelle de Genéve, vol. vi, p.
503.

tMémoires de la Soc. de phys. et d’hist. nat (1, p.70,) et Bibl. univ Se. et Arts,
vol. xxxix, p. 206.
NATURAL HISTORY OF GENEVA. 155

have confirmed them, only rendering them somewhat more exact. Then
followed their work upon the increase of temperature in the artesian wells
of Pregny. It was known that heat increased with depth in the excava-
tionsof mines, but the observations of Auguste de la Rive and Marcet
gave the progression of temperature to 650 feet, in a determined locality.
I had the satisfaction at this time to make a series of experiments with
Dela Rive upon the conductibility of heat in different woods. We estab-
lished a fact which finds application in vegetable physiology, namely,
that heat passes less easily in the transversal than in the longitudinal
direction of the fibers. While mentioning this investigation | cannot
resist the pleasure of dwelling upon the extreme modesty and amiability
of De la Rive as a collaborator. Notwithstanding his great talent, he
announced his opinions and accepted those of others with a charming
simplicity and absence of self-assertion. As he appeared to me in his
youth, so he continued even to the close of his life, when, weary and ill,
he made with our young secretary, M. Edouard Sarasin, some original
researches upon electricity in rarefied gases.

Ampere and Faraday did much to excite De la Rive to the study of
electrical phenomena; but from the constitution of his mind I am
induced to believe that the desire to establish firmly an important law,
namely, that chemical phenomena are the source of electricity, was the
principal motive which led him in this direction. How he succeeded in
establishing this law, what ingenious contrivances he invented to prove
it, and the multiplied consequences he deduced from his experiments, I
cannot as a naturalist, and unacquainted with the details of physics,
adequately describe. One of our colleagues, much better qualified, will
refer to them particularly in an article upon De la Rive, which will be
inserted in the Archives des Sciences. I have read afew pages of this
article, and although the publication of it may not be entire, the follow-
ing paragraphs will undoubtedly be retained, at least in their general
import :

‘‘ In a long series of memoirs, De la Rive has passed in review most of
the properties of the pile, and the effects produced by currents, con-
tributing thus in a great degree to determine the laws and to throw
light upon these complex phenomena, which were still very little under-
stood at the beginning of the century.

‘In the course of these great researches, the subject which most
attracted his interest and efforts was the chemical theory of the pile.
The cause of the disengagement of electricity in this apparatus had
been attributed by its illustrious inventor to the contact of the two dif-
ferent metals which form an essential part of it. The chemical action
exercised by the liquids upon the metals, was considered by Volta and
his partisans as an accessory phenomenon, hardly as an effect of the
current. But in proportion as the numerous relations of electricity and
chemical actions were more and more exposed, the opposite theory com-
menced to gain ground. De la Rive for many years was one of its most
156 TRANSACTIONS OF THE SOCIETY OF PHYSICS AND

ardent champions, denying that the contact of two different substances
could alone produce a disengagement of electricity without chemical
calorific or mechanical action. To-day, when the dynamic theory of
heat is universally adopted, this question in all its important points
may be considered as resolved in favor of the view De la Rive sought to
maintain. The motive force in the galvanic pile is incontestably the
chemical action, and the sum of the work produced under various forms
in the circuit is equivalent to the total amount of heat which this chem-
ical action can disengage. If the contact of the metals, or of the metals
and the liquids, has some influence—a fact still disputed—this acts asa
mechanism for transformation of the force, but is incapable of creating
the force itself.”

‘‘ De la Rive reviewed his investigations and views in regard to this
branch of science in the Traité d’Electricité, théorique et appliquée, which
he published both in English and French from 1853 to 1858. This ad-
mirable work did not end his productive labors in this direction, and
among the researches undertaken since that time we may mention his
experiments upon the sounds produced by the combined action of cur-
rents and magnets, his investigations in regard to the magnetic-rotatory
polarization, and his works upon the passage of currents through rare-
fied gas. The latter led to his theory of the aurora borealis, which, when
he announced it, was coolly received; but every day gains new par-
tisans.”

The researches upon electricity of our learned member seemed rather
theoretical than practical; but we know that the most varied applica-
tions, and often the most important, may unexpectedly proceed from the
most abstract scientific principle. De la Rive invented incidentally,
while engaged in his investigations, the application of the galvanic pile
to electrical gilding. He received for this the sum of 3,000 franes from
the Academy of Sciences of Paris, and with the revenue of this amount,
which he gave to the Society of Arts of Geneva, a prize is offered every
five years for the scientific discovery most useful to Genevese industry.

For some years the memoirs of Auguste de la Rive upon electricity,
and those sent him upon the same subject, were so numerous as to
necessitate the appropriation of an entire journal to them alone. The
Archives des sciences physiques et naturelles supplied this need. This pub-
lication, which constituted the scientific part of the Bibliotheque univer-
selle, was for a time, as well as the latter journal, immediately dependent
upon De la Rive, but he always endeavored to include the assistance of
his friends in its preparation. Itis evident from the number of articles
upon all branches of science, that he never interfered with the freedom
or direction of thought. On the contrary, he was glad to collect good
observations upon all subjects. His great intellectual capacity, as broad
as it was deep, readily accepted ideas the most varied in character, in
the moral and political, as well as in the physical and natural sciences,
while he still retained unimpaired interest in the especial object of his
NATURAL HISTORY OF GENEVA. 15

labors. Although he exercised the full powers of his mind in the prep-
aration of his memoirs, yet the most complex questions were appar-
ently to him very simple. He seemed to treat the varied and compli-
cated matters of government and science which engaged his thoughts
very much as an accomplished chess-player carries on several games at
once without seeming to regard any one of them with especial attention.
Even the most powerful organization of the nervous system must in
time give way, and with De la Rive the physical force was not equal to
the intellectual requirement. Great energy is exhausting when old age
prevents the regular renovation of the faculties. De la Rive expe-
rienced a slight attack of paralysis in the spring of last year, and
in the autumn when he intended to go to the south of France for
the improvement of his health he was seized with a second attack, much
more severe, of which he died at Marseilles, on the 27th of November,
1875, aged seventy-two years. To-day, then, remains to us only the
memory of this beautiful life, and an example well worthy of regard.

After De la Rive to mention Agassiz, his associate in all the scientific
societies, and in the list of the eight foreign associates of the Academy
of Sciences of Paris, seems but a natural transition. The life of this
savant is full of interest, but in speaking of it as I should I encounter
a peculiar difficulty. For thirty years the journals of every country have
never lost sight of Agassiz. When in the midst of his career an excel-
lent notice was published of him, and hardiy had he closed his eyes
when innumerable journals, American and European, contained detailed
necrological articles concerning him. To extract from these, comment
upon them, and complete them would require a volume. I will confine
myself, then, to a few general observations, adding only some authentic
details upon a point forgotten or generally unknown, but which is of
considerable importance, both as regards Agassiz and the history of the
scientific development of Switzerland. I speak of the causes which
determined the learned naturalist to fix bis abode in the city of Neu-
chatel rather than in Germany or at Paris.

Louis-Jean-Rudolphe Agassiz was born on the 28th of May, 1807.
His father was a Protestant clergyman who resided then at Mot-
tier, canton of Friburg, and afterward established himself at Concise,
not far from Neuchatel. He manifested, it is said, from his infancy,
an enthusiasm for natural history, and especially for the study of the
habits of the fish of our lakes, an indication of his future tastes. He
passed through the gymnasium of Bienne, and afterward the academic
course of Lausanne. Having a great desire to engage in the pursuit of
science, he obtained from his father permission to study surgery, which he
did successfully at Zurich, Heidelberg, and Munich. It was in the latter
city he received his diploma of doctor. As he had prepared an article
upon fresh-water fishes, M. de Martius then proposed to him to under-
take the description of the fishes of Brazil, which his traveling compan-
lon Spix, prematurely deceased, had hardly commenced. This was a
158 TRANSACTIONS OF THE SOCIETY OF PHYSICS AND

great honor for a young man of twenty-one years. Soon Agassiz turned
his attention to fossil fishes, the field of his principal discoveries. For
his studies in this direction he felt the need of examining larger collec-
tions than had yet come in his way, and for this end, and also to perfect
his medical education, he visited Vienna and Paris.

In the latter capital he made the acquaintance of Cuvier, and also of
Humboldt, who was always ready to countenance and encourage young
students, and was, at the same time, much interested in Neuchatel, of
which the King cof Prussia was prince and in some sort suzerain. I
have had the pleasure of reading several letters addressed by Agassiz
and Humboldt to M. Louis Coulon, of Neuchatel. With the permission
of this honorable gentleman I will give a few extracts. We will see from
these that Switzerland was indebted to him for the establishment of
Agassiz within her borders for fourteen years, a circumstance which had
an important influence, not only upon his own labors, but also those of
his compatriots. M. Louis Coulon was assisted in attaining this end by
his father, a merchant of long standing, a generous friend of science,
who has given important collections to the city of Neuchatel.

Agassiz to M. Louis Coulon.

‘‘COPEAU STREET No. 4, PARIS, March 27, 1832.

* * * “T have had the good fortune, I will not say to merit, but
to win the good-will of M. Cuvier, who has placed at my disposal all
the objects I wished to examine. He has extended to mea generosity far
beyond what a young man of my age ought to expect, who has as yet
done but little for science. You have seen the materials I have collected
for the history of fossil fishes; you know also that on my departure for
Paris I was afraid I would not be able to examine the specimens in the
museum with all the freedom I desired, and I felt all the more sure of
such restriction because M. Cuvier had announced a work upon this
important subject, which he proposed to publish as soon as he had fin-
ished his great history of fishes. M. Cuvier, however, not only allowed
me to describe, compare, and draw from all the skeletons of existing
fishes and all the fossils which are disposed in the galleries, but placed
in my hands all the material he had himself collected for his own work,
and even all the drawings he had ordered to be made at the British
Museum and elsewhere ; and, having other important matters to occupy
his attention after the completion of his work on the living fishes, and
considering that I would acquit myself sufficiently well in the task I
had undertaken with the fossils, left me to fill up this gap alone. You
may imagine how such encouragement inspires my zeal, and with what
ardor I pursue my work. This is one of the reasons why I refuse to
see any one here, in order that my mind may not be distracted.

* * * “When in the course of last summer I had the pleasureof see-
ing you I several times expressed to you my great desire to be settled near
you, and my intention to endeavor to obtain the chair of natural history
NATURAL HISTORY OF GENEVA. 159

you are about to establish in your lyceum. Your affairs must be in a
more advanced state now than last year, and I would be greatly obliged
if you would give me some information concerning them. Ihave commu-
nicated my projects to M. de Humboldt, whom I see frequently, who
shows great interest in me, and aids me with his good counsel.

* * * ‘Tn my different journeys, through my relations and through.
exchanges Ihavemadea very pretty collection of natural history, especial] y
rich in the classes with which your museum is the least furnished, and
which can fill the gaps in the collections in the city of Neuchiitel and ren-
der them more than sufficient for a complete course of natural history.
I have also thought you might include in the plan you propose to adopt
for the lyceum the increase of your zodlogical collections, and, if so, I
dare to think mine would amply fulfill the end you wish to attain. If
this should be the case I offer it to you. The expense of arranging it,
of providing a place for it, and of its support is beyond my means, and I
must endeavor to dispose of it, although it will cost me much to part
from these companions of study, with which I have made almost all my
researches. I have also spoken of this project to M. de Humboldt, who is
much interested in the matter, and will, if this transfer takes place, make
all the necessary arrangements with the government. You will do me
a great service, then, if you will give me your opinion in the matter, and
tell me, Ist, upon whom depends the nomination for the chair of natural
history ; 2d, upon whom will depend the purchase of my collection; 3d,
what you think I will have to do to accomplish these two objects. You
may imagine I do not wish to give up my collections unless I have the
prospect of being so situated as to be able to consult them freely.”

At this time M. de Humboldt delicately remitted to his young friend
the sum necessary to continue his sojourn at Paris, and M. Louis Cou-
lon, on his part, obtained the creation of a chair of natural history for
the college of Neuchatel. In the meanwhile a very sad event occurred.
Cuvier died of an attack of cholera, on the 13th of May, 1832.

Here is a second letter from Agassiz to M. L. Coulon:

‘“ PARIS, June 4, 1832.

‘Sir: I have received with much pleasure your interesting letter,
and hasten to reply to it. What you have written gives me the more
pleasure, that I see in it the immediate prospect of establishing myself
near you, and of being able to consecrate to my country the fruit of my
labors. It is true, as you suppose, that the death of M. Cuvier has
sensibly changed my prospects ; for example, that I can, for the contin-
uation of my work upon fishes, associate myself with M. Valenciennes,
who made me a proposal to that effect, the day after the arrival of your
letter, when I confided to him my projects; the conditions offered me
are very tempting, but I am too little French in character, and I am too
desirous to establish myself in Switzerland, not to prefer the place you
can give me, and to be as little as possible influenced by the salary
which would be attached to it. I cannot refuse, without considera-
160 TRANSACTIONS OF THE SOCIETY OF PHYSICS AND

tion, offers as brilliant as those made me, but I know how in many ways
to defend myself from their attractions. You must know me well
enough from past experience to be persuaded that 1 would not hold a
lucrative position through personal interests ; that far from this I would
always sacrifice to the advancement of the establishment which would
be confided to me, all the means at my disposal.”

M. Coulon succeeded in guaranteeing 80 louis ($300) annually, for
three years, to the future professor. The larger part of this sum came
from voluntary subscriptions, the rest from the city. Soon after the
collections of Agassiz were purchased for 500 louis, ($1,900,) of which
the city paid one third, the Prince a second third, and M. Louis de
Pourtalés completed the amount. This sum allowed Agassiz to com-
mence the publication of his history of fossil fishes. He employed
draughtsmen, and as he at the same time commenced or continued several
other works, he associated himself for some of them with M. Desor, and
afterward with M. Charles Vogt. The discoveries of Venetz and of
Charpentier upon the ancient extension of the glaciers then attracted
his attention. The group of scientists engaged in these interesting in-
vestigations, of which Agassiz was the center, made frequent excursions
to the glacier of the Aar, where their encampment, called the hétel des
Neuchdatelois, is still celebrated. This was the occupation of the summer.
During the winter drawings and publications advanced rapidly, thanks,
we ought to say, in good part, to the gifts of several distinguished citizens
and of the government of Neuchatel. The latter were promoted by
King Frederick William, at the suggestion of Humboldt. Thisillustrious
savant wrote to M. L. Coulon, at the time of the nomination of Agassiz,
the following letter, which has never been published :

M. de Humbolt to M. Louis Coulon.

“Tt is not a request that I address to you, sir, but the expression of
my sincere gratitude for your noble and generous conduct in regard to
a young savant, M. Agassiz, well worthy of your encouragement and the
protection of your enlightened government, on account of his talent, the
variety and solidity of his attainments, and what adds to the value of
these, especially in the agitated times in which we live, the amiable
gentleness of his character. I have known for many years, particularly
through our common friend M. de Buch, that you pursue the study of nat-
ural history with a success equaled only by your zeal; that you have
formed fine collections, which you allow others to enjoy with the most
generous freedom. It is pleasant to me to see your benevolence directed
toward a young man who is dear to me, whose loss from among us we
shall always regret, and whom the illustrious Cuvier would have recom-
mended to you with like affectionate ardor on account of the excellent
works he has nearly completed. It is a great and noble thought, that
of calming minds too exclusively occupied with political ideas or uto-
pian dreams by offering them in the study of nature, and of the
NATURAL HISTORY OF GENEVA. 161

sciences which most immediately affect the industrial resources of the
people, a salutary diversion. The respectable gentlemen who honor
your council of state in this way acquire new right to public esteem.
Gentle and industrious habits, great sagacity, and naturally happy
dispositions, even in the lower classes, have up to this timeeminently con-
tributed to the prosperity of your beautiful country. Education adds
to labor, but education in harmony with the needs of a century which
does not retrograde, must lead to that union of order and public liberty
which for centuries has characterized your community. I earnestly
advised M. Agassiz not to accept the offers which after the death of M.
Cuvier were made to him at Paris, and his resolution anticipated my
counsel. Whata happy thing it would be for him and for the completion
of the two excellent works in which he is engaged, if -he could at once,
this year even, be installed upon the borders of your lake. I have no
doubt of the protection that would be accorded to him by your worthy
governor, * to whom I shall repeat this suggestion, and who has honored
both myself and my brother with a friendship I highly prize. M.
Leopoid de Buch, who is interested almost as much as myself in the
destiny of M. Agassiz, and in his work upon fossil fishes, (the most
important yet undertaken, and equally exact in regard to the zodlogical
characteristics and those of the formations,) promised me, on leaving
Berlin for Bonn and Vienna, to mention the matter to him.

“Accept the expression of the distinguished consideration with which
{ have the honor to be your very humble and obedient servant,

“AL. DE HUMBOLDT.
‘POTSDAM, July 25, 1832.”

Agassiz took part in 1833 in the foundation of the Society of Natural
Sciences of Neuchatel, of which he was the first secretary. We remem-
ber his participation in the operations of the Swiss Society of Natural
Sciences, and his famous discourse at the opening in 1837, when he
announced his theory of the glacial period, to the great indignation of
Leopold de Buch. In 1840 Agassiz visited Great Britain, where he
pointed out to the geologists of that country evident traces of ancient
glaciers. It was from England he sailed in 1846 for the United States, at
the expense of King Frederick William, with the intention merely of
making a visit. The interest of his first explorations. the repugnance
he felt for the political revolutions of the old world, and, finally, the
generous and warm reception of the Americans, induced him to pro-
long his stay. He accepted a place as professor, and saw develop, little
by little, that brilliant career of scientific propagandism, of the creation
of museums, of expeditions along the coasts of America to the region
of the river of the Amazon, and to California, which attracted to him
public attention, and which won for him enormous donations from
wealthy Americans to the profit of his labors and of the establishments he

* Referring to M. de Pfiihl.

S. Mis. 115 11
162 TRANSACTIONS OF THE SOCIETY OF PHYSICS AND

directed. If at the time when Agassiz was a poor student he dreamed
of an Eldorado suited to his desires, his dream was realized more than
once toward the end of his life.

Agassiz could teach in three languages with equal grace and facility.
He was the partisan of no particular school. Science was to him neither
German, French, nor English, but of all countries. He excelled in the
examination of details, and in the comparison of forms. I cannot say
that he was equally superior in the principles of natural classification
and in theoretic deductions. It may be considered at the least singular
that the author of the immense discovery of a parallelism between the
successive forms of the embryo of a fish, and the successive forms of
the class of fishes in general in geological times should persistently deny
all evolution in the two kingdoms. However, other naturalists of great
distinction, formed as Agassiz by practical investigations, have adopted
debatable theories, and I doubt, for example, whether it would be possible
to reduce several of the hypotheses of Linneus to the rigorous form of
the syllogism.

One peculiar circumstance in the life of Agassiz is, that he never ac-
cepted any position or desired to live in a great city. We have seen
that he preferred Neuchatel to Paris. He had no greater inclination
for Berlin and London, where friends and even powerful patrons would
have drawn him. He probably felt within him an inward activity which
did not require the excitement of great cities, and we know that he
absolutely avoided going out of his specialty. He died in a modest
habitation, near Harvard - University, on the 18th of December,
1873, from a rapid prostration of the nervous system. His obsequies
were attended by an immense assembly. The feeling caused by the
death of this man was so general among the people of Boston, that,
although he had never taken part in politics, the flags of all the public
edifices of the city were lowered in token of grief.

Donations by thousands of dollars as a testimonial still continue in
favor of the Museum of Comparative Zodlogy, the favorite work of
Agassiz. On the 26th of June the subscription amounted to $120,000.
The learned American, to whom I owe this information, thought that
this sum was not sufficient. In Europe we would consider it munificent.
Already during the year 1873 the establishment had received from
various donors $156,000. Among these contributors, Agassiz had the
pleasure of counting one of his best pupils, his only son, whom fortune
had favored, and who, making a good use of the wealth he had acquired,
gave $46,000. It is he, Alexander Agassiz, the author of the remark-
able work upon Echinoids, who has now the direction of the museum,
and we have no doubt that he will acquit himself of the charge with
great advantage to science.

Don Ramon de la Sagra,a Spaniard by birth,* was established in his
youth at Havana, where he gave much attention and labor to the develop-

* Born at Corunna on the 7th of December, 1801.
NATURAL HISTORY OF GENEVA. 163

ment of agriculture, public instruction, and all the institutions which
characterize civilized countries. While director in that city of a botan-
ical and agricultural establishment, he caused large collections to be
made of the plants of the island of Cuba, and generously distributed them
among the botanists who could describe them. Augustin Pyramus de
Candolle was one of the most favored in this respect, and the name of
Ramon de la Sagra is frequently cited in the Prodromus. Notwith-
standing the uncertainty of everything in Spain and its colonies, Ra-
mon de la Sagra succeeded in collecting very valuable and varied ma-
terials, which he has introduced into divers works upon the statistics
of the island, and particularly in his principal publication, which con-
sists of several volumes in folio, I’ Historia fisica, politica y natural de
la isla de Cuba. His tables of statisties are not altogether satisfactory
in regard to the nature of the population, and the administrative author-
ities of the country, but the volumes on natural history, which have been
prepared by competent authorities, are highly esteemed. ‘They testify
throughout to the scientific zeal of the savant who collected the material
for them, and the liberality of the Spanish government, which paid the
cost of publication. ‘

Ramon de la Sagra traveled in the United States, Holland, and other
countries where scholastic institutions and public utility in general
were the objects of his attention. He published several articles upon
these subjects, as well as upon political economy. The Academy of
Sciences nominated him correspondent.

Unhappily, the favorable disposition of the court of Madrid toward
Ramon de la Sagra did not continue. It seems that an article by him,
in a very obscure French journal, in which he declared that the Spanish
government would do well to emancipate the slaves of the island of
Cuba, was the cause of a disgrace carried to such an extent that Queen
Isabella withdrew the pension which was the only resource of the au-
thor. He petitioned for its renewal, in view of his advanced age, but
in vain. This was in 1867. From that time his condition was deserv-
ing of pity. He ended his days at Cortaillod, near Neuchatel, on the
25th of May, 1871. Some of his friends in that city have placed a sim-
ple monument upon his grave.

The senior of our honorary members, Antoine-Laurent-Apollinaire
Fée, died in his eighty-fifth year, at Paris, on the 21st of May, 1874.

In botany, he was known principally by his memoirs, in folio and
in quarto, on the family of Ferns; by his essay upon Cryptogams,
with exotic medicinal barks, (one volume in 4°;) and by some
ingenious researches in regard to the plants that Theocritus, Virgil,
and Pliny speak of in their writings. For many years he was stationed
at Strasburg, as professor and director of the botanic garden, but the
terrible events of the war of 1870 obliged him to leave the beseiged
city after several weeks of great suffering. A bombshell entered his
library; his garden, the object of his especial attention, was converted
164 TRANSACTIONS OF THE SOCIETY OF PHYSICS AND

into a temporary cemetery ; so that when the Swiss federal government
gave permission to the old men, the women, and children to leave,
he gladly availed himself of it, and he arrived in Geneva, greatly
impaired in health in spite of a remarkably robust constitution. He
was, moreover, much distressed in mind, for he belonged to an old
French family, in whom sentiments of patriotism were very strongly
implanted. In regard to his personal interests, which were much com-
promised, he manifested much more resignation than for the disasters
of his country. We had the pleasure of seeing him sometimes at our
sessions. Afterward when he had secured his pension as professor
and military pharmaceutist of the first class, he went to Paris, and
settled near a portion of his family. The botanical society of France
nominated him president, but death found him in the midst of his books
of botany and literature.

Fée commenced his career as pharmaceutist, attached to the French
army in Spain during the great war. We may imagine that he was
subjected to great hardships; but he was young, vigorous, well in-
structed, and, amid all the distractions of war, of marches and counter-
marches, he never neglected an opportunity of botanising, and also
of making himself master of the beautiful language of Spain, which he
cultivated to the end of his days. A small volume published by him
gives an agreeable account of this campaign, and was completed by
another containing the description of a journey, taken fifty years later
over the grounds of his former adventures.

Several of the articles of M. Fée upon literary or moral subjects or
upon popular botany are remarkably correct in style, and we have
always been impressed with the purity of his diction.

Jacques- Adolphe-Lambert Quetelet, director of the Royal Observatory
of Brussels, perpetual secretary of the Academy of Science, Letters, and
Artof Belgium, has furnished an example of ascientific careerremarkably
long, active, and varied. Born at Ghent, on the 22d of February, 1796, he
taught mathematics in the college of that city, at the early age of eighteen
years. Becoming, five years later, professor at the Athenzum of Brussels,
he continued to labor and publish the results of his efforts in the domain
of mathematical and physical science or of statistics, until he was seventy-
eight years of age. He died on the 17th of February, 1874. Never was
there a correspondent more scrupulous in replying to the communica-
tions made to him, and his liberality in the exchange of publications
has been often noticed, both in our society and elsewhere.

Quetelet published the Hléments @astronomie (2 vol. in18mo, second edi-
tion, 1848,) a volume, Sur la physique du globe, (in 4°, 1861,) several articles
upon probabilities, and the journal entitled Correspondence mathematique
et physique, (11 vols. in 8°, 1825-39.) He made at the observatory at
Brussels a series of very important observations upon the temperature of
the ground at different depths, and has given us the results of meteoro-
logical observations made with great care. He was one of the first to
NATURAL HISTORY OF GENEVA. 165

study atmospheric waves, the knowledge of which is necessary to fore-
tell the weather. He inaugurated a series of uniform observations in
numerous localities upon the times of foliation, flowering, and matur-
ing of a great number of vegetables, and in general upon the periodi-
cal phenomena of vegetable or animal life. The study of mathematics
led him to introduce the statistical method into many branches of
knowledge, and also to perfect this method. He diffused just ideas in
regard to averages, and insisted more than had yet been done upon
their ordinary constancy, even in social phenomena, a constancy the
origin of which is easy to comprehend if we reflect upon the diversity
of the causes which are almost always in action, and the slight proba-
bility that they will change from one year to another. If Belgium has
published statistical documents more extended and better co-ordinated
than those of other states, she owes this principally to the fact of hav-
ing had M. Quetelet for president of the commission of statistics. Until
the close of his life, he collected and published data upon the physical
and moral conditions of man, under the head of social physics. These
were highly appreciated by the Academy of Moral and Political Science
of the Institute of France, which made him first correspondent and
then foreign associate. M. Quetelet, furthermore, was a member of all
the scientific academies and societies of any importance, and, without
having traveled much, was known everywhere as the friend of science.

a) 99

During the year 1875-74 the society received, as resident member,
Dr. Adolphe @’Espine, and at the same time elected, as honorary mem-
bers, Dr. Francis Forel, of Morges, professor at the Academy of Lau.
sanne, (who has made some interesting communications,) and M.
Poggendorff. In nominating this latter well-known physicist, of an
advanced age, we wished to associate ourselves with the manifestation
made at Berlin by a great number of savans and of societies, upon the
occasion of the fiftieth year of the doctorate of the editor of the Annalen
der Physik und Chemie.

Prof. Emile Plantamour was appointed president for the year 1874~75,
and the other officers of the society were continued, with thanks for
the services they had rendered.

II1.—LABORS OF THE SOCIETY.

Astronomy.—Colonel Gautier communicated to us the result of 227
observations made by him upon the contour of the solar disk, by means
of a direct-vision spectroscope, by Hoffman, similar to that of M.
Respighi at Rome. M. Gautier classes the phenomena into eruptions,
exhalations, and detached formations. The details he gives, and the
deductions he draws in regard to the probable nature of the phenomena,
deserve to be studied in the memoir itself, which, accompanied by two
plates, is published in the Archives of Physical and Natural Science,
for March, 1874.

Physics.—Mr. Fol submitted to the society the plan of a manometer,
166 TRANSACTIONS OF THE SOCIETY OF PHYSICS AND

designed especially for sea-soundings of great depth. This instrument
consists essentially of two spherical reservoirs, superposed and con-
nected by a capillary tube. The upper reservoir should be closed and
entirely filled with a compressible liquid, for example alcohol; the other,
which has an opening in the upper part, must be full of mercury, which
ought also to fil! the capillary tube. The quantity of mercury which
will pass from the second reservoir into the first when the apparatus is
submitted to pressure will give the measure of this pressure, and con-
sequently of the height of the column of water, or, in other words, of its
depth.

M. Archard described a manometer of precision, of his invention, con-
sisting of two liquids, water and petroleum. His memoir, accompanied
with a plate, was published in the Archives of Physical and Natural
Science, for April, 1874.

M. Achille Cazin, honorary member of our society, on a visit to Gen-
eva, entertained us with some recent researches om the thermal phe-
nomena which take place in a magnetic circuit, an extract of which
appeared in the Comptes Rendus of the Academy of Sciences.

The last work of our illustrious colleague, Auguste de la Rive, was
accomplished in association with M. Edouard Sarasin, who gave the re-
sults in the session of the 20th of November last. He investigated the
action of magnetism upon the electric discharge in rarefied gas, when
this discharge takes place in the prolongation of the axis of the mag-
net. In this case the magnet produces a considerable augmentation of
the current, when it acts directly upon the negative electrode. It seems,
from these experiments, that there is a special and very strong resist-
ance proceeding from the negative electrode, which the action of the
magnet serves to overcome. (Archives des Sciences physiques et naturelles,
April number, 1874.)

M. Raoul Pictet communicated to us several series of observations
which he had an opportunity of making, during a long sojourn in Cairo,
as director of the physical cabinet of that city. To speak first of those
which treat more particularly of physics, he found, by means of a large
actinometer, the measure of the intensity of the calorific radiation at
Cairo. His apparatus consisted of a kind of caldron or boiler, formed of
two thin parallel plates of iron, which was filled with water, and placed
in a ease full of cotton. This case was blackened, and closed at the side
turned toward the sun by a variable number of glass plates. It results
from these observations that in Egypt a surface of a square meter, ex-
posed normally to the rays of the sun, in the middle of the day, absorbs
nearly twelve calories a minute. Other observers in Europe find under
like circumstances that the absorption amounts to about six calories.
The diurnal evaporation produced under the action of the sun is about
one-sixth of an inch of water; that which results from dry air and
from wind is about three-sixths of an inch.

M. Soret made several communications upon the phenomena of polar-
NATURAL HISTORY OF GENEVA. 167

ization by diffusion of light. He has observed a trace of illumination
upon a cone of solar light concentrated not only in transparent liquid
or solid bodies, water-crystals, &e., but even in brilliant flames. The
particles of incandescent charcoal, which these contain, therefore, still
exert their reflective power contrary to the idea given by M. Hirn. This
luminous trace is always completely polarized for an angle of vision of
90°.

Professor Forel, of Morges, has given us the pleasure of listening to an
account of the beautiful researches he has undertaken on Lake Leman,
for several years, on the transmission of light in water; and has
shown us impressions obtained upon photographic paper immersed at
different depths. He found that 150 to 160 feet of depth in summer was
the limit, beyond which the transmitted light is too feeble to exercise any
action upon the chloride of silver. In winter the water of the lake is
much more transparent, and the limit extends to 200 feet.

General Dufour described the effects of a thunderbolt ona poplar tree
upon his estate near Geneva; a large furrow was made in it from the
top of the trunk, 80 feet in height, to the bottom. On this occasion M,
de la Harpe cited a fact which he had witnessed. <A bolt fell upon a
group of poplars, leaped from one tree to another, passed through sev-
eral, and made cylindrical holes in them of from 3 to 4inches in diameter.

Terrestrial physics, meteorology.—Professor Plantamour presented a
memoir upon the observaticns of latitude, of azimuth, and of the pendu-
lum, made on the Righi, the Weissenstein, and at Berne, in 1867, 1868,
and 1868. In a comparison of the observations of the pendulum on the
Gebris and the Weissenstein, the weight was found to be zp}o, less than
in the first of these localities. M. Plantamour attributed this to the
nature of the rocks, which are of cone-in-cone at Gebris, and caleareous
at the Weissenstein. The same member announced to us the conelu-
sion of the great work of the leveling of the polygon, traversing twice
the Alps, at the St. Gothard, and at the Simplon retarded by an error,
which, for a time, could not be accounted for, but which was finally
found to be due to a false figure in the record of one of the sides of the
polygon.

The variations, extreme this year, of the waters of the Lake of Geneva,
attracted the attention both of the public and of the engineers. Gen-
eral Dufour proved that the high waters of 1873, however, remained
below those of 1792 and of 1817, and M. Plantamour added below those
of 1846. A remarkably low level followed during the winter of 1873-
1874, but the public were mistaken in believing an assertion in a certain
journal that the lake had never been lower.

These questions in regard to the level of the lake, which are frequently
renewed, have formed the object of a special work by Professor Planta-
mour, founded upon thirty-six years of observations, from 1838 to 1873.
The author first proceeds to the verification, at several points, of the
marks successively employed, and the level of the lake having been re-
168 TRANSACTIONS OF THE SOCIETY OF PHYSICS AND

duced to the uniform 0 of 10 feet below the mark of the stone of Niton,
the calculations for the thirty-six years have given the following results:

The lake attains its minimum (3 feet) on the 11th of February, and its
maximum (7 feet) on the 7th of August. There is a first mean level
from the 28th to the 29th of May, and a second from the 22d to the 23d of
October. The level is then during 218 days above, and during 147 days
below the mean. The level rises more quickly than itsinks. The rising
is most rapid toward the 19th of June; it rises then 6 inches a day.

To show the annual variations, M. Plantamour has traced the curves
of the highest levels of the means and of the lowest waters. These
three curves have some analogy between them, but are far from con-
cording. The level of the highest water varies the most from year to
year, and it influences the mean more than thelow water. The mean of
the high waters has not sensibly varied during the lapse of thirty-six years.
The highest maximum (9 feet) was attained on the 17th of July, 1846.
The level of the low water in winter is, on the contrary, raised progres-
sively. The lowest minimum (1 foot 3 inches) is shown on the 5th of
April, 1840. That of 1875-1874, which astonished the public, remained
16 inches above the level of 1840. As to the elevation of thelow water
during recent years, one of our colleagues, a former member of the ad-
ministrative council of the city of Geneva, calls attention to the fact
that the position of the suction-pipe of the hydraulic machine has not
been altered for twelve years. Professor Plantamour, in this work,
which has required long calculations, has limited himself to the exposi-
tion of the figures, but any one aware of the discussions which have
arisen at various times upon the supposed effects of the different levels
of the lake, cannot abstain from one satisfactory reflection. The high
water is frequently complained of, but never the low water, unless it
sinks to such a point as to interfere with navigation, and, in some cases,
with the approach to the ports. It is pleasant, then, to know that the
high water has not risen for thirty-six years, and that the mean of the
low water is rather higher than lower.*

The investigations in regard to Lake Leman have been continued in
a most satisfactory manner since our society and the Vaudois society of
the natural sciences have united in encouraging them. Prof. Frangois
Forel, who had been previously engaged with the subject, and continues
to pursue it, has communicated to us a series of observations of great
interest. I have already mentioned those relative to the absorption of
light by the waters of the Jake. He also made some upon the seiches, or
sudden variations of level, very perceptible in the narrow part of the lake
near Geneva. We know that Professor Vaucher attributed the phe-
nomenon to the variations in the weight of the atmosphere.t M. Forel,
while confirming the observations and the opinions of this savan, has

* Oar Mémoires already contain numerous documents upon the level of the lake. See
V, p. 63; vol. viii, p. 119; vol. x, p. 327.
t Mémoires of the society, vol. vi, p. 35.
NATURAL HISTORY OF GENEVA. 169

made a more complete examination of the facts. He observed the sud-
den variations at the two extremities of the lake, and in the interme-
diate station of Morges, where they are less sensible. The duration of
one of these sudden changes varies little in each locality, but differs
much from place to place. At Geneva it is 1,590 seconds; at Veytaux,
near the eastern extremity, 1,783 seconds; and in the middle, at Morges,
264. This latter locality presents a rhythmic movement of 22 seconds.
M. Forel compares these movements of the lake to those of water in a
basin, in which the height and duration of the waves of oscillation de-
pend upon the form of the vase and the depth of the liquid.*

The soundings of M. Forel at different depths proved to him the
existence of three strata at the bottom of the lake: Ist. An upper
stratum of yellowish silt, containing a large number of animals, living
and dead. 2d. A stratum of about 4 inches of black clay. 3d. A lower
stratum of blue clay, very fine and very homogeneous, except near the
mouth of the Rhone, where it contains some mica.

M. Raoul Pictet profited by his sojourn in Egypt to study more accu-
rately than had yet been done the water of the Nile. His principal
operations of gauging took place near Cairo, at the bridge of Kasr-el-
Nil. He sounded the river from shore to shore at 38 points, 33 feet
distance from each other. The velocity was measured by means of
the apparatus of Woltmann. The lowest water occurs about the 15th
of May; the amount of water there is 24,000 cubic feet a second. The
highest water is on the 15th of September, the amount then being
372,000 cubic feet. The mean is 168,000 cubic feet a second. The
greatest velocity 3 feet below the surface is 6 feet 9 inches; the least,
7 inches.

M. Pictet has frequently observed the sand spouts, which are a daily
phenomenon on the plains of Egypt. About 10 o’clock in the morning,
the sun having heated the surface of the ground, there results in the
adjoining stratum of air an ascensional and gyratory motion, which
carries up sandy particles to a height of 5,000 to 6,500 feet. The cen-
tral part of the column has a temperature of from 45° to 60°, that of
the atmosphere in the shade being from 25° to 35°, centigrade.

Prof. A. Gautier presented an article upon the thermometric obser-’
vations made at Labrador by some Moravian missionaries. They form
a continuation of those presented in 1870.

Geology.—Prof. Alph. Favre has regularly informed the society of the
condition of the labors of the Swiss Geological Commission, of which
he isa member. The geological chart of ;¢;!oy9 is published in eleven
sheets, with five sheets of especial charts, concerning the canton of Bale,
the environs of Brugg, Mount Pilatus, the St. Gothard, and the Sentis,
(in two sheets.) The commission moreover has been especially occu-
pied on the St. Gothard, where the great work of forming a tunnel

"Forel upon the seiches in the Bulletin of the Soc. Vaudoise des sc. nat., 1873, p. 213
and Archives of the se. phys. and nat., January, 1874.
170 TRANSACTIONS OF THE SOCIETY OF PHYSICS AND

is in progress. Anengineer, M. Stapff, has been engaged to make a
careful section, indicating the strata, and to form 60 collections of the
rocks extracted, of which twenty-five will remain in Switzerland and
be distributed to the different museums of the country. M. Ernest Favre
has given us an account of the researches M. Stapfi has already made
in the field of his commission.

M. Alph. Favre has shown that upon the flank of the Jura, in the re-
gion of Gex, above Farges, erratic blocks are not found higher than
from 2,760 to 2,790 feet above the sea, while more to the east upon the
Jura and at the Saléve they are seen at a much greater elevation. He
thinks this may be accounted for by the small height of the Sion
Mountain over which the neighboring glacier could flow. The declivity
of Divonne, on the contrary, would interrupt its expansion in the direc-
tion to the east of Gex.

Chemistry. Professor Marignac read a memoir upon the solubility of
the sulphate of lime, and upon the state of higher saturation of its
solutions, which was published in the Archives of Physical and Natural
Seience for October, 1573.

In another series of experiments, M. Marignac examined the diffusion
of two salts in the same liquid. He used salts not susceptible of recip-
rocal decomposition. In comparing salts capable of forming double
salts with those not thus capable, he found no difference. He perceived
no relation between the simultaneous diffusibility of two salts and their
relative co-efficients of diffusion. The mingling of two salts diminishes
always the diffusibility of the least diffusible of the two. The various
acids and the various bases preserve their order of diffusibility through-
out all their combinations. M.Marignac perceived no separation of the
acids and of the bases in the diffusion of the salts.

A so-called kaolin was found at Colonges, near to the fort of the
Ecluse. M. Emile Ador made an analysis of it. He found 38 per cent.
of silica, 35 of aluminum, and 27 of water; consequently, it was not a
kaolin, but a mineral, analogous to the Halloyite.

Zoology, physical, animal, and medical.—The presence of eels in the
Lake of Geneva has been sometimes denied, but also as often asserted.
M. Lunel was assured that this year several of them had been taken.
He attributed this fact to the elevation of the waters, which allowed the
eels to mount to the mouth of the Rhone more easily than usual.

The disappearance of a species is generally slow, and more or less
difficult to prove; but, as an entirely exceptional instance, M. de Can-
dolle cited the complete absence since 1873 of the Galericula ealmari-
ensis, a Small coleoptera, which for several years devoured the leaves of
the elms in the suburbs of Geneva to such a degree as to cause the
death of a large number of the trees. The proprietors in vain endeav-
ored to exterminate the insects, when suddenly they disappeared. As
this disappearance was general as well as sudden, it could not be attri-
buted to the increase of an enemy, but must have been due to an

irregularity at an important moment of some condition of its existence.
~~
NATURAL HISTORY OF GENEVA. 171

In his researches upon the bottom of Lake Leman, Professor Forel ex-
tracted from the superficial stratum of the ooze, at depths of from 82 to
100 feet, and even to the maximum of 980 feet, different crustaceans
and other animals which are at present the object of special study with
certain naturalists. To his great surprise he found some living limneans
(a family of mollusks) at so great a depth that they could breathe but very
little oxygen, and that only in the manner of aquatic animals. These
same limnzans, when placed in an aquarium, developed organs for aerial
respiration.!

M. Henri de Saussure communicated to us the results of his study of
the Orthoptera, just published in the second part of volume vi of the
French Expedition to Mexico. In connection with Gryllides he men-
tions the genus Tridactylus, in which each individual may have three
modes of living—subterranean, aerial, and aquatic. A species of the
south of France is found also in the sands, sometimes submerged, of
the islands of the Rhone near Colonges, where M. de Saussure has seen
them alive. The two anterior claws serve for burrowing, the middle
pair for walking, and the posterior pair for leaping, even when resting
upon the water. The animal can rise in leaping to two hundred times
its own length. It can also swim.

Dr. Fol presented a memoir in French, which he has just published in
German in the Jenaische Zeitschrift, upon the evolution of Cclenterates,
in particular upon the egg of the species called Geryonia fungiformis.
This work recalled to us by its nature, and by the beautiful plates
which accompanied it, those of our eminent and regretted colleague,
Edouard Claparéde. The egg of the Geryonia passes by a regular
segmentation to the state of the morula, then by means of a doubling of
the single cellular stratum it produces two spheres, one fitting into the
other, which become the ectoderm and endoderm. This formation, of
which the author observed the course, appeared to him to differ much
from that of the other cases, in which the double stratum results from
the invagination of the primitive sphere. The conception of Leuckart
and Heckel, of two subkingdoms having their common origin in the
Protozoaires, finds support in these facts. M. Fol also examined the
question whether there exist animais which in the adult condition are
constructed like the egg of the superior animals in the first phases of its
evolution. He pointed out, in this connection, the Protomoyxa, which
was mentioned by M. Heckel, and the Megasphera planula.

M. Gustave Rouchette has continued the curious observations made
by M. Moggride at Mentone, upon various species of ants and spiders.
He showed us the seeds which the ant, called Atta Barbara, accumulates
for food, in small subterranean cavities. When one of these seeds com-
mences to germinate, the ants cut off the root and carry the seed into
the sunshine to dry the wound. The mason spiders, which live in a

‘See the articles of M. Forel upon the fauna of the deep waters of the lake, in the
Bulletin de la Soc. Vaudoisé des Sc. Nat., xiii, No. 72.
172 TRANSACTIONS OF THE SOCIETY OF PHYSICS AND

tube closed with a sort of a stopper, can construct this apparatus only
while they are young. They give to it the color which would best cause
it to be confounded with the adjacent ground. M. Rouchette has given
a series of examples, confirming the observations of the ingenious
English naturalist.

Dr. Lombard commented before the society upon the report of the
French commission, by Dr. Baillarger, in regard to the goitre and cre-
tinism. He finds in the facts presented a verification of the theory he
has given of the cause of the goitre. This cause, according to his view,
consists in a plethora of carbon, produced by the rarity of the oxygen in
elevated regions. A sojourn on the shores of the sea corrects this affec-
tion by the greater abundance of oxygen, and by the iodine, which
absorbs the carbon. Other causes may, in certain elevated localities,
diminish the inconvenient effects of the rarity of the oxygen. M. Lom-
bard’s theory has also found support in the facts observed by the military
physicians at Briangon, St. Etienne, and Lyons, and recorded in the Med-
ical Gazette. The soldiers were the more frequently attacked with goi-
tre in proportion as the locality in which they resided was elevated.

Dr. d’Espine has given us an oral review of his thesis upon the puer-
peral septicémia, tending to prove experimentally that the accidents
of childbirth proceed from the absorption by the uteri-vaginal lesions of
septic substances, as in any wound whatever.

Botany.—The duration of the vitality of the seeds thrown into the sea
is a question which concerns both physiology and botanical geography.
M. Gustave has made it the object of direct study, at the request of M.
de Candolle, and the latter communicated to the secretary the results,
which have since been printed in the Archives of Physical and Natural
Science for July, 1873.

The progress made in the knowledge of vegetable fossils induced M. Alp.
de Candolle to endeavor to connect, more than had yet been done, the bo-
tanical geography of ancient and present times. For this end he deemed
it necessary to propose a classification of the vegetables, founded upon
their manner of comportment with regard to temperature and humidity,
which determines different groups, of classes, families, species, and geo-
graphical flora. He insists upon the persistence of physiological prop-
erties, and attributes it to hereditary descent. After having character-
ized five groups of plants, which he calls megathermes, xerophiles, méso-
thermes, microthermes, and hékistothermes, he shows their present distri-
bution upon the terrestrial surface, and their anterior distribution, often
different even in the Tertiary Period, the nearest approached to ours.
The memoir appeared in the Archives of Physical and Natural Science
for the month of May, 1874.

Several botanists, members of our society, have been engaged with
investigations in connection with the great publication of the Brazilian
flora. M. Mare Micheli, having completed his study of the onagrarieés
ot Brazil, has given us some interesting facts in regard to the organiza-
NATURAL HISTORY OF GENEVA. res:

tion of the seeds in this family, particularly in the Jussi@a, and also the
geographical distribution of the species. He admits five genera, one of
which, the Oocarpon, is new, and founded upon the number of parts of
the flower. According to his observations, the disk of certain seeds of Jus-
sia are constituted by a portion of the endocarpe adhering to the seed,
and the bilocular seeds owe this appearance to an exceptional develop-
ment of the raphe. He founds the division of the genus into three prin-
cipal sections upon these characteristics, which he elucidates by figures.
His memoir is published entire in the Archives of Physical and Natural
Science for Jane, 1874.

Dr. J. Miiller has been occupied with the determination of a singular
fungus, sent to the museum of Geneva by M. Claraz, as an organic sub-
stance, found in the waters of the Rio Negro, between Patagonia and
the Argentine Republic. Notwithstanding the imperfect state of pre-
servation, he recognized it as a Lysurus, and has described it, with an
illustration, in the Flora of the 21st of November, under the name of
LD. Clarazianus.

Communications in regard to published works or memoirs.

Besides original memoirs and verbal communications of facts observed
by the members, the society allows brief information to be given in
regard to works already published. This is a pleasant way of contribu-
ting to the progress of the knowledge of the members, principally in
those branches with which they are not especially occupied. If we con-
sider the number of the publications and the short time appropriated to
them at the close of each session, it is clear that these communications
must be very incomplete. Still, they are listened to with interest, and
thanks are due to those members who have brought to notice some
memoirs, very little known, but very important.

In the course of this year the clergyman, M. Duby, has drawn our atten-
tion to the opinions of Mr. Hilgard, in regard to the Algz and Mosses,
and to various articles relative to the invasion of an American crypto-
gam a parasite upon the Malvacées; M. Alph. Favre bas spoken to us
of the work of M. Belgrand, upon the hydrographical study of the
Seine; M. Ernest Favre of the memoirs of M. Mojsisoviez, upon the
geology of the oriental Alpes, and of M. Schlutter, upon the fossil
crustacea of Libanus. Prof. A. Gautier has been very zealous in intorm-
ing the society of the work which has been done in astronomy and
meteorology, both in Europe and America. He has mentioned espec-
ially the labors of Vogel in regard to the movements of the stars, and
of Poly upon the relation between the solar spots and different meteors
at the surface of the earth. Prof. de la Harpe has given us an analysis
of Prof. Hayden’s volume upon the geology of the Territory of Montana.
M. Humbert has spoken of the observations of Fritz Miiller upon the
thermiies of Brazil; M. Mare Micheli of those of M. Prillieux, upon the
movements of the chlorophyl of the Selaginella; Dr. Prevost of the
174 TRANSACTIONS OF THE SOCIETY OF PHYSICS, ETC.

recent discoveries in regard to the cerebral system; M. Soret upon the
method employed by M. Becquerel for the study of the calorific spectre
by the aid of phosphorescent substances, and upon various physical
memoirs read before the French association at Lyons. Finally, M.
Marecet has addressed a letter to us from London, in regard to the
investigations of Tyndall upon the propagation of sound in the atmos-
phere.

Publications of the society.— Volume XXIII, part 2, in which we pub-
lish this report, shows that the series of our memoirs continue in a
satisfactory manner. The society has no other resources for the main-
tenance of this publication than those furnished by its members and
the products of the sale or exchange of its volumes. The preceding
year the family of Edouard Claparéde generously aided us in publishing
his last and remarkable work. If this liberality were repeated we
would be able to give much more extended memoirs, illustrated with
many more plates, for happily scientific activity does not decrease
among and around us.
THE PAST AND FUTURE OF GEOLOGY:

AN INAUGURAL LECTURE GIVEN BY JOSEPH PRESTWICH, M.A., F.R.S.,
F.G.S., &c., PROFESSOR OF GEOLOGY IN THE UNIVERSITY OF OXFORD,
ON JANUARY 29, 1875.

[ cannot enter upon the subject of this address without a brief tribute
to the memory of my distinguished and lamented predecessor, Professor
Phillips. Educated in geology by his uncle, William Smith, the father
of English geology, John Phillips was thus nearly connected with the
early history of our science, and lived to give active and efficient aid to
its progress during more than half a century. His early training was
among the Oolitic hills of Gloucestershire and the Midland Counties,
but his first independent work was among the Paleozoic rocks of York-
shire. In later life, he returned to the ground of his youth, and spent
his last years in investigating the rich and varied succession of life in
the different divisions of that Oolitic series of which his uncle was the
first to establish the stratigraphical order; and his “ Geology of the
Valley of the Thames” contains the best summary we possess of the
geology and paleontology of these strata in this and the adjacent
counties. .

Besides his chief and early work on the “Geology of Yorkshire,”
Phillips was also the author of an excellent ‘“ Treatise on Geology,” of
works on the Malvern Hills, and on Vesuvius, of several memoirs in the
geological survey, and of above seventy papers scattered through various
scientific periodicals. He was a fellow of most of our great scientific so-
cieties, and the record of his many valuable contributions in each special
branch is to be found in their respective proceedings. I have to note
his work here.

Shortly after Phillips’s arrival in Oxford, the valuable geological col-
lections, many of which had remained hidden for want of space, were
transferred from their old quarters to the new and beautiful museum
Oxford now possesses. Valuable as these collections were in particular
sections, especially in cave remains, there was very much to be done in
completing the series of the local formations, and in the general selec-
tion, order, and grouping of the specimens. All this was admirably
carried out by Phillips, and the geology of tbe surrounding district is
now illustrated by a suite of fossils amassed and arranged with great
judgment, and forming one of the most complete local series in the king-
dom. To Phillips especially is this museum indebted for the remarkable
collection of the remains of the Cetiosaurus and of the Great Oolite—an
extinct gigantic reptile the size of a whale and with the gait and am-

175
176 THE PAST AND FUTURE OF GEOLOGY.

phibious habits of a crocodile. He also brought his great local knowl-
edge of Great Britain to bear on one of the proposed additions to the
new museum, viz, that of the British ornamental rocks, of which the 127
graceful columns which decorate the building each constitutes a speci-
men; the size and position of the shafts exhibiting to great effect, and
with permanent advantage, the character and beauty of the several
rocks, including numerous varieties of our granites, serpentines, and
mountain limestones, with some from the more recent Permian, Oolitic,
and Purbeck strata. No such collection exists elsewhere, and with it
will always be associated the name of the eminent man who by his taste
and ability so ably contributed to the success of the work.

But Phillips was not only a geologist; he was a man of great and
varied acquirements, a meteorologist, a botanist, an astronomer, and a
physicist. Further, he was a man whose amiable disposition, engaging
manners, and eloquent and fluent address, made him beloved as much
as he was esteemed; and while his loss to science will be long felt, his
mark must remain and his memory will ever be honored.

When in 1819 Dr. Buckland, who had a few years previously suc-
ceeded Dr. Kidd as professor of mineralogy, received his appointment
to the then-recently-created chair of geology, he spoke of these subjects
as the “‘ new and curious sciences of geology and mineralogy.” Geology
was only then beginning to assume a recognized position, and was pass-
ing from purely speculative “theories of the earth” to the more philo-
sophical investigations of its structure and organisms. Hutton had
sought in natural existing agencies the causes of past changes on the
earth; Smith had solidly laid its stratigraphical foundations; and
Cuvier was devoting his great talents to the restoration of old higher
forms of life. Buckland then commenced his powerful and attractive
teaching, and drew around him the younger men, through many of
whom his influence on the progress of geology is happily yet felt. In
his hands, the interesting fauna of the surrounding district was grada-
ally unfolded, and among the most remarkable of the extinct forms then
discovered and described by Buckland was the huge Megalosaurus and
the small Marsupials, long the most ancient quadrupeds known, of
Stonesfield.

Bat Buckland’s great work was that connected with cave remains, in
search of which he ransacked England and the continent, and although
the conclusions then enunciated by him, and at that time very generally
accepted by geologists, have not been corroborated, the facts so well
recorded and the collections so largely made remain to attest the value
and importance of hislabors. It was in connection with these researcles
that the later discovery of our time, that of the association of the ex-
tinct mammalia with the remains and works of man, was dimly sighted,
but with averted eyes, by my distinguished predecessor. But Buckland
did not stand alone; his opinion was shared by geologists of all coun-
tries, and it was not until another generation had passed that the evi-
THE PAST AND FUTURE OF GEOLOGY. arr

dence so often brought forward, and which had in vain sought examina-
tion, respecting the antiquity of man, was confirmed and admitted by
geologists.

Such was the aspect of our science at the time this chair was estab-
lished ; and I propose in this address briefly to notice some of the larger
features, whether on questions of theory or on questions of fact, by
which its progress has been marked, and which, while they may serve
to show how much has been done, will yet indicate how much still
remains to be accomplished.

The geologist commences where the astronomer ends. We have to
adapt the large and broad generalizations of cosmical phenomena to
the minuter details of terrestrial structure and constitution which it is
our business to study. The common origin of the solar system has been
long inferred from the spheroidal figure of the earth and the relations
of the planets to one another, and explained by evolution from an
original nebulous mass; and geologists have had to consider how far
such a hypothesis is in accordance with geological facts. The ques-
tions connected with the earliest stages of the earth’s history are on the
very boundary-line of our science, but they have too important a bear-
ing on its subsequent stages not to command our serious attention;
and though obscure and theoretical, they serve to guide us to firmer
ground. This nebular hypothesis has recently received from physicists
corroboration of a most novel and striking character, equally interesting
to geologists and astronomers.

The wonderful discoveries with respect to the solar atmosphere, made
by means of the spectroscope, have now presented us with an entirely
new class of evidence, which, taken in conjunction with the argument
derived from figure and plan, gives irresistible weight to the theory of
a common origin of the sun and its planets; and while serving to con-
nect our earth with distant worlds, indicates as a corollary what of
necessity must have been its early condition and probable constitu-
tion.

The whole number of known elements composing the crust and atmos-
phere of the earth amounts only to sixty-four, and their relative distribution
is vastly disproportionate. It has been estimated that oxygen in com-
bination forms by weight one-half of the earth’s crust, silicon enters for a
quarter, then follow aluminium, calcium, magnesium, potassium, sodium,
iron, and carbon. These nine together have been estimated to consti-
tute {Go of the earth’s crust. The other ;235 consist of the remain-
ing fifty-five non-metallic and metallic elements.

The researches of Kirchhoff, Angstrém, Thalén, and Lockyer have
made known that of these sixty-four terrestrial elements there are
twenty present in those parts of the solar atmosphere called the
‘chromosphere ” and ‘reversing layer,” as the stratum which sur-
rounds the photosphere is called from certain optical properties.

S. Mis. 115 2 ty

178 THE PAST AND FUTURE OF GEOLOGY.

They consist of * —

Aluminium. Cerium. Hydrogen. Manganese. Strontium.
Barium. Chromium. Iron. Nickel. Titanium.
Cadmium. Cobalt. Lead. (?) Potassium. Uranium.
Calcium. Copper. (?) Magnesium. Sodium. Zine.

Nor, with possibly two exceptions, does the spectroscope give any
indication of unknown elements.

While these phenomena afford such strong additional proofs of the
common origin of our solar system, Mr. Norman Lockyer, basing his
inquiries upon these and other facts recently acquired on the constitu-
tion of the sun, has been led to form some views of singular interest
bearing on the probable structure of the crust and nucleus of the earth.
With his permission, I am enabled to lay before you some of the points
in the inquiry he is now pursuing.

Observation and theory have both led him to the unexpected conclu-
sion that in the case of an atmosphere of enormous height, and consist-
ing of gases and of metallic elements in a gaseous state, gravity over-
comes diffusion, and the various vapors extend to different heights,
and so practically arrange themselves in layers; and that in the sun,
where owing to the fierce solar temperature the elements exist in such
a State of vapor and of complete dissociation, the known elements
arrange themselves in the main in the following order: f
Coronal atmosphere... ........... 2 Seta .---Cooler hydrogen.

Ineandescent hydrogen.

Chromosphere... ...... SER ee ae : .
: vss" Magnesium, calcium.

{ Sodium.

| Chromium.
Reversing layer ..... Shave eal sie ois clare eet < Manganese.

| Iron.

| Nickel, &e.

Mr. Lockyer suggests, and has communicated some evidence to the

Royal Society in support of his suggestion, that the metalloids or non-
metallic elements as a group lie outside the metallic atmosphere. He

*On analyzing this list we find: One permanent gas, (hydrogen;) two metals of the
alkalies, (sodium, potassium ;) all the metals of the alkaline earths, (calcium, stron-
tium, barium ;) three metals of the zinc class, (magnesium, zine, cadmium ;) all the
metals of the iron class, (manganese, cobalt, chromium, iron, nickel, uranium; two
metals of the tin class, (tin, titanium ;) one metal of the lead class, probably, (lead.)

The metals of the tungsten, antimony, silver, and gold classes are entirely unrepre-
sented, while, if we accept the metallic nature of hydrogen, there is not a single metal-
loid on the list, although they have been diligently searched for.

tMr. Lockyer points out that this order is that of the old atomic or combining
weights, and not that of the modern atomic weights, as the following table shows:

Old atomic New atomic Old atomic New atomic
weights, weights. weights. weights.

LEIS 5) ee ea eee il il Chromitimys.c.-cesecs cee) ee 52.5
MaCneM W222. ov. Uses 12 24 Manganese/s.-- 25 22.o scan 27 55
Calcium......--.. 2.2.2... 20° +40" 1 \| Tronitedecet se s.ce Ro oeRe aS
NOQUINGii Acne asin a nies ann MR 23 23 Nickels d.2. 2o ee Sioose, 4 29 oS)

Aluminium does not find a place in the above list, beeause its order in the layers has
not yet been determined by observation; but the principle referred to would place it
between magnesium and calcium.
THE PAST AND FUTURE OF GEOLOGY. 179

also explains why under these conditions their record among the Fraun-
hofer lines should be a feeble one. Hence he considers that we have no
argument against the presence of some quantity of the metalloids in
the sun taken as a whule, although that quantity may be small.

Mr. Lockyer then takes the observed facts together with the hypoth-
esis of the external position of the metalloids, and is considering these
two questions:

1. Assuming the earth to have once been in the same condition as the
sun now is, what would be the chemical constitution of its crust ?

2. Assuming the solar nebula to have once existed as a nebulous star
at a temperature of complete dissociation, what would be the chemical
constitution of the planets thrown off as the nebulosity contracted ?

It will be seen that there is a most intimate connection between these

.two inquiries, the localization of the various elements and the reduction
of temperature acting in the same way in both cases.

Thus, to deal with the first question: as the external gaseous vapors
(those of the metalloids) cooled, they condensed and fell on the under-
lying layer, where they entered into combination, forming one set of
binary compounds and then others as the temperature was reduced,
until finally all the metals and earths were precipitated.*

If, now, we turn to the earth’s crust, we find it very generally
sumed that the fundamental igneous rocks which underlie the sedi-
mentary strata, and which formed originally the outer layers, may be
divided into two great masses, holding a general relation one to the
other, an upper one consisting of granite and other plutonic rocks, rich
in silica, moderate in alumina, and poor in lime, iron, and magnesia;
and of a lower mass of basaltic and voleanie rocks of greater specifie
gravity, with silica in smaller proportions, alumina in equal, and iron,
lime, and magnesia in much larger proportions, with also a great variety
of other elements as occasional constituents; while the denser metals
are in larger proportion in the more central portion of the nucleus. .The
suggestion of Mr. Lockyer is that this order follows necessarily from
the original localization of the earths and metals before referred to, by
which the oxygen, silicon, and other metalloids formed, as they now do
in the sun, an outer atmosphere, succeeded by an inner one consisting
in greater part of the alkaline earths and alkalies, then by a lower one
of iron and its associated group of metals, and finally by an inner nu-
cleus containing the other and denser metals.

As we have before observed, above nine-tenths of the earth’s crust
consists of those elements which, on the assumption of the external posi-
tion of the metalloids, would constitute the outer layers of the Hepa
mass. Thus, oxygen and silicon alone constitute, on the average, T00

* Firstly, those binary compounds capable of existing at a high temperature, suc h
as the vapor of water, of hydrochloric acid, of silica, carbonic acid, and others, would
be formed; secondly, the precipitation of these Ww ould give rise to numerous reactions,
forming a variety of silicates, chlorides, sulphates, &c. ; thirdly, with the condensation
of water, the constitution of minerals would be effected, double decompositions would
ensue, and the consolidation of the outer shell commence.
180 THE PAST AND FUTURE OF GEOLOGY.

of the mass of acid plutonic rocks of which the upper part of the first
assumed shell of the earth consists. Beneath it, as a whole, are the
basic rocks, into the composition of which calcium, een and iron,
combined with oxygen, enter in the ratio of, say, ;%°5, while the silicon
diminishes in proportion. Still deeper lie the denser and harder metals,
which reach the surface only through veins transversing the outer layers.

We next come to the second question, dealing with the chemical con-
stitution of the planets. It is imagined that the same consideration
would hold good, and that the exterior planets may approach in their
constitution that of the sun’s outer atmosphere, and that the planets
may become more metaffic as their orbits lie nearer the central portion
of the nebula. Mr. Lockyer considers that the low density and gigantic
and highly-absorbing atmospheres of the outer planets accords with
their being more metalloidal; and that, on the other hand, the high ,
density and comparatively small and feebly-absorbing atmospheres of
the inner planets points to a more intimate relation with the inner layers
of the original nebulous mass. For the same reason, we should expect
to find the metalloids scarcer in the sun than in the earth.

In the Jovian system, and in our own moon, we have a still further
support of the hypothesis in the fact that the density of the satellites

is less than that of their primary.

I had hoped to have brought before you some of the results of the
examination of the spectra of portions of the outer igneous-rock crust of
the earth, which Mr. Lockyer kindly undertook to compare with the
solar spectrum; but, owing to the state of the weather, the investigation
is not yet complete. It may be stated, however, that as in the spectrum
of the sun so in the spectra of the lava, greenstone, and granite already
tested, no trace of the metalloids is present, although oxygen and silicon
enter so largely into the composition of these rocks.

We can, however, still only look on these views as hypothetical, but
they eo nnend themselves to us by their simplicity and grandeur, and
their high suggestiveness for future inquiry and research. They show
us also how the spectroscope may, as the microscope has done already,
aid the investigations of the geologists—the one by endowing the eye
with new powers of sight with respect to the infinitely minute, and the
other with new powers of tangible analysis with respect to the infinitely
distant in time and in space.

Quitting the early history of our globe, we leave the domain of the
astronomer and enter upon one shared by the geologist, the mineralo-
gist, the chemist, and the mathematician. The elements which we first
dealt with in their gaseous and dissociated state have now entered into
a multiplicity of combinations giving rise to a vast variety of compound
bodies. Instead of the sixty-four simple elements, their mutual reac-
tions have resulted in the formation of somewhere about one thousand
varieties of rocks and minerals alone, with which the geologist has in
future to deal. He also has to deal with all the physical problems
arising from the consolidation of the crust of the earth, from pressure
THE PAST AND FUTURE OF GEOLOGY. 181

due to gravitation and contraction, from the action of subterranean
forces, from the effects of heat, and with all the varied phenomena re-
sulting from these complex conditions.

Passing for the present over the intermediate stages of consolidation,
the continual cooling of the globe has necessarily resulted in a thicken-
ing of its crust, the exact extent of which at the present time has long
been the object of geologists to determine.

The inquiry is one of extreme difficulty, and has of late years engaged
and is stil engaging the attention of some of the ablest physicists and
mathematicians. The early belief was that the thickness of the crust of
the earth does not now exceed thirty to sixty miles; but the late Mr.
Hopkins, reasoning on phenomena connected with precession or nuta-
tion, concluded that on the contrary it could not be less than eight hun-
dred miles thick, or more; a conclusion which has been supported and
extended by Sir W. Thompson, who, while maintaining the igneous ori-
gin of the globe, and the greater intensity of action in past ages, has
further proved, on dynamical grounds, that the earth as a whole must
now be more rigid than glass, and probably even more rigid than steel.

It is difficult, however, to reconcile these views with the extent and
character of recent voleanic action. This Mr. Robert Mallet endeavors
to do, in a remarkable paper recently published in the Transactions of
the Royal Society. The author bases his views upon Constant Prevost’s
theory of elevatory forces, but considers that as the secular cooling of
the globe has proceeded, and the crust become thicker and more rigid,
the tangential pressure, no longer equal to the elevation of mountain-
ranges, is spent in local crushings of portions of the crust; and that, by
transformation of the mechanical work of compression, the heat from
which terrestrial volcanic agency is at present derived is produced.
Mr. Mallet contends for the high probability that this “ crushing of the
earth’s solid crust affords a supply of energy sufficient to account for
terrestrial vulcanicity,” comprehending in that term earthquakes and
volcanic action. Thus, instead of arising from a deep-seated and com-
mon cause, Mr. Mallet would assign present volcanic ejections to the
local fusion of the strata at variable but moderate depths beneath the
surface ; and he considers it characteristic of such action “that it is
only one phase of a unique force which has always been in action,
though in decreasing energy, since our planet was nebulous.”

On the other hand, these views have been objected to by other com-
petent observers, who hold with little modification to the original
hypothesis of a molten central nucleus and a shell of comparatively small
thickness. Such are some of the large physical problems now oceupy-
ing the attention of geologists. I shall have oceasion to recur to them
again.

In stratigraphical geology, the great divisions originally introduced
by our predecessors stand, but their number and the number of sub-
divisions have greatly increased. In 1822, when Phillips and Conybeare
wrote their “Geology of England and Wales,” twenty-three so-called for-
THE PAST AND FUTURE OF GEOLOGY.

182

i

Fishes 4-83

Reptiles 5 - 282
THE PAST AND FUTURE OF GEOLOGY. 183

mations were recognized, whereas now thirty-eight such are established,
and these are divided into about one hundred and twenty subdivisions,
each characterized by some peculiarity of structure or of fauna. Pale-
ontology as a separate science was not then known; structural and
physical geology had chiefly occupied attention ; but the study of or-
ganic remains has since advanced with such rapid and vigorous strides
that the older branch of the subject was until lately in danger of being
neglected and distanced.

At that time, the number of species of organic remains in Great
Britain which had been described amounted only to 752, whereas now
the number amounts to the large total of 13,276 species. The relative
proportion between these totals and the numbers of each class is exhib-
ited in the annexed diagram, (Fig 1*,) which shows also the vast progress
made in paleontological knowledge between 1822+ and 1874.

Some idea of the extent and variety of the past life of our globe
may be formed by comparing these figures with the numbers of plants
and animals now living in Great Britain. Excluding those classes and
families, such as the naked mollusca and others, which, from their soft
and gelatinous nature, decay rapidly and so escape fossilization, and
insects, || the preservation of which is exceptional, the number of living
species amounts to 3,989, against 13,183 extinct species of the same
classes, and the relative proportions of each class stands as in the dia-
gram, Fig. 2.

Thus while the total number of those classes of vertebrate and inver-
tebrate animals and plants represented in a fossil state, and now living
in Great Britain, is only 3,989, there formerly lived in the same area as
many aS 13,276 species, so that the fossil exceed the recent by 9,287
species. It must be remembered also that plants are badly represented;
for owing to their restricted preservation, the fossil species only number

*In these diagrams, the inner semicircle, a a, gives the relative proportion between
each class in an area which represents the sum of the total ; and the outer semicircle,
c ¢, gives the dimensions which each class would have had had the proportions between
the several classes in each of the two compared periods or stocks been maintained in
the same ratio as in aa; while the irregular segments b b give approximately the actual
increase or excess of each class, showing how comparatively large the additions in some
of them have been compared with those in others, and in the case of Fig. 2showing how
particular classes of fossils fall below or exceed in development ef their living ana-
logues. The inner numbers attached to the several classes refer to the value of each
in the inner circle a a, and the outer numbers have reference to the values represented
by the segments b. The sign X means that certain segments should pe so many times
larger.

t As there was no list of British fossils then published, I have taken the numbers
given in Woodward’s “ Synoptical Table,” published in 1830, and deducted from them
those added to the stock between 1822 and 1830.

{I am indebted to my friend Mr. Etheridge, F. R.S., paleontologist to the Geological
Survey, for the particulars of this 1874 stock. The details are given in a valuable
table, which he has had the kindness to draw up for me, and which is given in fall,
with the details of the 1822 stock and of living species, in the appendix.

|| The number of British species of insects amounts to between 10,000 and 11,000.
184 THE PAST AND FUTURE OF GEOLOGY.
823 against 1,820 recent species. Birds are still worse represented, as
only 18 fossil species occur against 354 recent species.

But the multiplicity of British fossils, however surprising as a whole,

oe |
& NIN
o
Be . a |
&
Uy,

jozoat

‘ =
Fn Mi S
oy, ty =
azo Mh 3S
oF Nl FI
a *o, dy A
&. All a) &
IQ Ul r | im =
- Lod %, ine 5
Loy
vere ay | ay NN
Cty | ‘
a i n i Hl i tN
eo. | WN
4, he uy Vy
Sia : I ton itl thi y
°2on, :) lo a nea |
Leg s z S55 84, (| IH y ,
x ae PR IEn | anne es
{GS - OF g ID i Hi I =
oe al
Se nin LT i Hl | 33
LA 138
189 - 0¢ Sta1opourtos i} mM Ini ae
ELS - LET 8938.10} 1924) ||| ae
é a
399 -96 Rhizopods and Protozoa} §

198-124 Amor?

1)
i
~
XP,
eo,
BS
= :
& Sa anerene ie

has to be viewed in another and different light. The large total repre-
sents

, hot as the recent species do, the life of one period, but the sum of
those of all the geological periods. Geological periods, as we construct
them, are necessarily arbitrary. The whole geological series consists of
subdivisions, each one of which is marked by acertain number of char-
acteristic species, but each having a large proportion of species com-
mon to the subdivisions above and below it. These various subdivis-
ions are again massed into groups or Stages, having certain features and
certain species peculiar to them and common throughout, and which
groups are separated from the groups above and below by greater breaks

THE PAST AND FUTURE OF GEOLOGY. 185

in the continuity of life and of stratification than mark the lesser divis-
ions. As these on the whole severally exhibit a distinct fauna and flora,
we may conveniently consider them as periods, each having its own dis-
tinctive life, and the number of which in Great Britain we have taken
approximatively at thirty-eight.

~
oO
w
Oo
’
to
. @ me
H ae} (%)
H 5 ~
' =
' i=)
' +
1 a
- -
|

aor is

Lamellibranchiates 95 - 220

{Pt
e. “pods
os 2nd yr
z, Yue le ob
¢ S Qehia,
Sa es D0
7
7)
Mp
%
Sie
SK
a
©

OL- 9 SEU

e- 7 spate

#S

The number of species common to one period and another varies very
greatly; but taking the average of the sixteen divisions of the Jurassic
and Cretaceous series, of which the lists were, with a portion of those
of the older series, given a few years since by Professor Ramsay,* we

*Anniversary addresses for 1863 and 1864, Quarterly Journal Geological Society.
The tables were computed by Mr. Etheridge.
186 THE PAST AND FUTURE OF GEOLOGY.

may assume that about 30 per cent. of the organic remains pass from
one stage to apother. Dividing the 13,276 fossil species among the
thirty-eight stages, or omitting the lower stages and some others and
taking only thirty, we get a rough average of 442 species for each ; and,
allowing in addition for the number common to every two periods, we
obtain a mean of 630 species as the population of each of the thirty
periods against the 3,989 species of the present period. On this view,
the relative numbers are therefore reversed, as shown in the annexed
diagram, (Vig. 3,) where the number of living British species is compared
with the mean of the extinct species assumed for any one past period
of the same area,

This gives a ratio for the fauna or flora of a past to that of the
present period of only as 1:64. But it must be remembered that prob-
ably the actual as well as the relative numbers of the several classes
inter se in each and all of these several formations varied greatly at
the different geological periods. Still, we have no reason to suppose
but that, during the greater part of them, life of one form or another was
as prolific, or nearly so, in the British area then as at the present day,
and we may thus form some conception of how little relatively, though
so much really, we have yet discovered, and of how much yet remains
to be done, before we can re-establish the old lands and seas of each
successive period, with their full and significant populations. This we
cannot hope ever to succeed in accomplishing fully, for decay has been
too quick and the rock entombment too much out of our reach ever to
yield up all the varieties of past life. But although the limits of the
horizon may never be reached, the field may be vastly extended; each
segment of that semicircle may yet be prolonged we know not how far;
and it is in this extension—in the filling-up of the blanks existing in
the life of each particular period—that lies one great work of the future.
The field which thus embraces the study of all the varied forms of life
in all past time has now, as we have just shown, attained such vast
dimensions as will long require for its due and continued cultivation
the active and unceasing co-operation of geologists and paleontologists.

We now come to the more especial ground of the geologist. Starting
with investigations connected with the origin of the globe, he has to
trace the changes it has undergone through the various phases of its
history, to determine the cause of those changes, and the manner in
which they were effected. Besides investigating the character and dis-
tribution of all organized things inhabiting the earth in all former
periods—their order of succession, and the relation of the several and
successive groups one to another—he has also to study various chemical
and physical questions connected with inorganic matter.

In the infancy of the science, geologists generally sought to explain

he great mechanical phenomena exhibited on the surface of the globe
by energy rather than by length of action. The philosophy of Hutton,
Playfair, and their successors checked this disposition, and has led to
THE PAST AND FUTURE OF GEOLOGY. 187

more temperate methods of explanation; but it is a question whether
the license which formerly was taken with energy is not now too much
taken with time. Small forces long continued, action frequently
repeated, and maintained uniformity of operation, are accepted as suffi-
cient to account for the formation of our hills and plains, of the Alps
and the Andes, and for all the great general as well as special features
of the earth’s crust.

Iam aware that in expressing other views I shall have occasion to
differ from men for whose opinion I have the highest regard, and who
have done infinite service to the progress of scientific geology ; but I
am also expressing views which I was very early led to form, and which
long experience has only tended to confirm. The points at issue are,
firstly, whether our experience on these questions is sufticient to enable
us to reason from analogy; and, secondly, whether all former changes:
of the earth’s surface are to be explained by the agency of forces a‘ike
in kind and degree with those now in action. It is not possible in the
limits of this address to do full justice to these important questions. I
may, however, briefly state my reasons for answering these questions in
the negative.

The value of experience with respect to natural phenomena depends
upon whether they are symmetrical and not variable, or whether they
are variable and unsymmetrical. In the one case, as any one part bears
a given uniform relation to the whole, if one part be known, the whole
can be inferred; but in the other case, where the whole is made up of
unequal and not uniform parts, the value of the evidence is merely in
proportion to the number of those parts independently determined, or
to the ratio between the duration of the observation and the duration
of the time comprising all the phases of the particular phenomenon.
Thus the path of a planet, the date of an eclipse, or the return of a
comet, may be predicted with certainty by the determination of mere
minute sections of their orbits, which in respect to time are infinitely
small compared to the length of the cycle of revolution. On the other
hand, the metamorphosis of an insect, the mean temperature of a place,
or the character of a volcano, can only be accurately determined by a
length of observations sufficient to embrace all the variations they respect-
ively present in their several cycles of change. In the case of the insect,
the time must be equal to the duration of the metamorphosis ; in that
of temperature, a succession of years is needed to obtain a mean; and,
with respect to volcanoes, centuries may often pass before we become
acquainted with all the irregular exhibitions of their spasmodic activity.

The necessity for a much greater extension of time becomes yet more
imperative when we come to deal with geological phenomena, such as
those due to the action of elevatory forces, which are extremely varied
in their nature, being at one time exhibited by a raised beach, a few feet
high, and at another by a mountain-chain, whose height is measured by
miles; or by the small displacement produced by an earthquake, and
188 THE PAST AND FUTURE OF GEOLOGY.

the rectilinear fracture of a county with a displacement of thousands of
feet.

In taking into consideration the weight of the evidence where the
series is so variable and irregular, it is clear that the increment of value
is in proportion to the increment of time. One phase of the insect life,
one year’s record of temperature, a century’s observation of the voleano,
give evidence which, although of value pro tanto, as one link in the
chain, is entirely inconclusive when applied to the whole length. So in
respect to such geological changes as those just named, the value of our
experience is only in the proportion of the length thereof to the duration
or cycle of the phenomenon under investigation. Thus the elevation of
mountain ranges have been events of rare and distant occurrence. Sup-
posing, as has been estimated, that all the great chains can be referred
to thirteen principal epochs; or, taking subordinate ranges, that the
elevation of the mountain-chains of the Old World be limited to twenty
such periods. Divide geological time (since the sufficient consolidation
of the crust of the earth) by this or even by double this number, and we
may form some conception of the length of the cycles involving changes
of this magnitude. Whatthattime is it is impossible to say ; we can only
feel how infinitely it exceeds all our limited experience. With respect
thereto, the experience of five hundred years is no doubt of value—onre or
two thousand years add further to it; but, after all, how insignificant that
duration of time is compared to the time over which the eycle extends.
It may be as 1: 100, or it may be as 1: 200, or more. And I shall show
further on (p. 47) that there are circumstances which indefinitely extend
even these proportions. I conclude, therefore, that our experience in
these cases is by far too limited to furnish us with reliable data, and that
any attempt to reason solely from part to the whole must prove falla-
cious.

Another argument adduced in support of this theory is, in my opinion,
equally untenable. It is asserted that, taking the degree of elevatory
force now in operation, and allowing quantity of time, the repetition of
the small changes on the surface witnessed by us would produce, in
time, results of any known magnitude, 7. e., that the force which could
elevate a district 5 feet in a century would suffice in one hundred thou-
sand years to raise it 5,000 feet. This reasoning might be conclusive, if
we had cause to suppose that the force were uniform and constant, but
even our limited experience shows this to be irregular and paroxysmal;
and although the effects indicate the nature of the force, they in no way
give us a measure of its degree.

Before I proceed further I must remove two objections which have
been urged against what has been called the cataclysmic theory in oppo-
sition to the uniformitarian theory—both terms in themselves inaccurate
from their exaggeration, as all such terms usually are. One is, that we
require forces other than those which we see in operation ; and the other,
that it is unnecessarily sought to do by violent means that which can
THE PAST AND FUTURE OF GEOLOGY. 189

be equally well effected by time. It is not, however, a question raised
as to the nature of the force, but as to its energy; it is not a question of
necessity one way or the other, but of interpretation; it is a question
of dynamics and not of time, and we cannot accept ie introduction of
time in explanation of probiems the real difficulties of which are thereby
more often passed over than solved. Time may and must be used
without limits ; there is no reason why any attempt should be made either
toextend or to curtail it; but while there is no need for frugality, there is no
wisdom in prodigality. After all, it will he found that, whichever theory
is adopted, the need will not be very different ; the mountain-range, for
the gradual elevation of which the one will ask 160,000 years, the other
may require for its more sudden elevation a force taking the same num-
ber of years to accumulate its energies.

We must, however, judge of the past by the features it has stamped
on the land,* and these we must interpret not entirely by our own expe-
rience, not alone by our estimate of force, but by our knowledge of what
amount of force the energy due to the thermal condition of the globe
can develop on known dynamical principles, and by our observation of
what those forces have effected in past times.

However we may differ in our interpretation of the ntesent thermal
state of the globe, most geologists agree in accepting the hypothesis of
central heat as the one best in accordance with known facts relating to
subterranean temperature, the eruption of igneous rocks, the action of
metamorphism, and the crushing and contortions of rock-masses. The
radiation of heat into space has been accompanied by a gradual con-
traction of the central mass, and a shrinking of the crust, to which the
trough of oceans, the elevation of continents, the protrusion of mount-
ain-chains, and the faulting of strata are to be attributed. The ques-
tion is whether that contraction was accompanied by a like gradual
yielding and adaptation of the solid crust to the lessening circumference
of the globe; or whether the resistance of the rigid crust was only over-
come at intervals by paroxysmal efforts. This latter was the view
held by most of our early geologists, and is still the prevailing one
abroad.

It is not necessary here to deal with the first steps of the problem.
Let us take it after, for example, the re-adjustment of the crast (when it
must have been many miles thick) which resulted in the elevation of
such a mountain-chain as that of the Alps; and here I must assume a
point in advance. The resisting strata having given way to the ten-
sion to which they had been subjected, a state of equilibrium and re-
pose would for atime ensue. As the secular refrigeration subsequently
proceeded, the tangential force due to contraction resumed action ; and
while certain larger areas were depressed, chiefly by the action of gravity,

* The evidence of facts with respect to the glacial period has led to the admission of
@ greater intensity of cold; so we contend that the evidence of the past, at times,
respecting the greater effects of heat, is equally definite.
190 THE PAST AND FUTURE OF GEOLOGY.

other and smaller portions of the crust, presenting less resistance, yielded,
and rose at right angles to the tangential pressure.

Now either, if the elevatory force were limited and uniform in de-
gree, 2 point would be reached at which that force was balanced by
the increasing resistance and weight of the strata, and the movement
would cease; or else, if the energy was a constantly-generated quantity,
and the rigidity such as to prevent yielding beyond a certain extent,
(and no solid crust can be perfectly flexible,) then it would be a dy-
namical necessity that a time would come when, from the accumulation
of that energy, it would overcome the resistance, and the opposing
strata be suddenly rent and fractured. This primary resistance re-
moved, the full power of the elevatory force would be brought to bear
upon the disjointed mass, and the surplus energy expended in at once
rapidly forcing forward and tilting up the now yielding strata along the
line of fracture to that position and that height required to restore a
state of equilibriam and no more. It is not possible for any number of
minor forces, where the ultimate resistance exceeds each one taken
separately, to accomplish in any time, however long, that which requires
for its execution a major force of infinitely greater power.

Hither a minor force, if sufficient to move a given weight, will go on
moving, or else, if from any cause a further or secondary and independ-
ent resistance, such as in this case that dependent on the cohesion of
the strata, has to be met, additional power must be brought to bear,
which, if that secondary resistance be then overcome, the cumulated
force, being far in excess of the residual resistance, will be immediately
expended with energy in proportion to the magnitude of the resistance
mastered. Thus, although a railway-engine could readily move ten car-
riages, if could not move one hundred. It is true that if it were allowed
to proceed with ten carriages at a time it could perform the removal of
the whole in ten journeys, but if that were not practicable it would re-
quire the simultaneous application, say of ten engines, to accomplish
the same journey at oue time, and by no other means could the inertia
of the mass be overcome, although when once overcome the force em-
ployed would be largely in excess of that required for traction only.

Again, in the case of large faults traversing thick masses of strata,
the conditions are nearly the same. For example, in the great Craven
fault, which brings the disjointed edges of the Silurian rocks on a level
with the disjointed edges of the Coal-Measures, the extent of displace-
ment is in places as much as 4,000 feet, and the range of the fault ex-
ceeds 50 miles. If we take the thickness of the strata so fractured at
20,000 or any greater number of feet, it is not possible to conceive any
small force acting through any length of time to have effected their dis-
ruption, unless it could be imagined that the fault had proceeded pro-
gressively with the gradual accumulation of the strata, which is impossi-
ble. In any way, the fracture must have occurred suddenly at the
moment the tension overcame the resistance of the mass ; it then neces-
THE PAST AND FUTURE OF GEOLOGY. 191

sarily follows that with the residual resistance reduced to mere gravity,
a displacement, ending in a state of equilibrium of the fractured strata,
would at once ensue, the amount of displacement being in proportion
to the severity of the strain.

The results of the foregoing conditions are in perfect accordance with
observation. The enormous crumpling and folding of the strata—the
vast upthrow of their disjointed edges—indicate the energy of the forces
which has been exerted, has been spent, and again accumulated. Of
these forces, it is as difficult for us to realize the intensity as it is to
fathom the immensity of space. These are among the questions for the
future.

While thus refrigeration progressed, and the shell of the globe became
thicker, other causes came into operation to give it greater rigidity, and
so better fit it for the habitation of man.

In the many discussions to which this question has given rise, it has
been too much assumed that the shell was of uniform or nearly uniform
thickness; the irregularities of the upper surface were apparent, but
those possible on the under surface have been scarcely sufficiently con-
sidered. There is, however, I think, reason to suppose, from some col-
lateral inquiries, that the under surface of the shell is ribbed and chan-
neled in a manner and ona scale materially to influence the operation
of that fluidity of the nucleus and mobility of the crust on which so
many able and elaborate calculations have been based.

Let us take, on a continental area having a mean surface-temperature
of 55° Fahr., a point in the earth’s crust through which any isotherm of

Vashi

depth passes—suppose it be that of 1,000°. This earth-isotherm will
possibly be found at a depth of between 50,000 and 100,000 feet.* The
isothermal plane must approximatively follow the contours of the sur-
face, and in mountain-districts, M may rise some 1,000 to 4,000 feet above
its other level. But when we come to seas, such as the Mediterranean,
the sea-bed has the mean temperature of the surface, (or more correctly
the mean temperature of the winter-months,) and the depth of that bed
being from 6,000 to 8,000 feet, the earth’s thermal plane of 1,000° is
thrown proportionally lower than on the adjacent land.

*There is reason to believe that the rate of increase of temperature of 1° Fahr. for
every 50 to 60 feet of depth, which obtains near the surface, is, owing to the increased
conductive power of the rocks, much less at greater depths.
192’ THE PAST AND FUTURE OF GEOLOGY.

With the great oceans, O, other conditions come into operation which
increase the difference, for the cold Arctic waters pass in an undercur-
rent from the poles to the equator with so little loss of heat that near
the equator a deep-sea temperature of 359 Fahr. or even lower exists.
Therefore, to the depth of the ocean, we have to add a depth equivalent
to the difference between the mean temperature of the adjacent land
and that of the deepwaters. In the Arctic zone, the temperature of the
Jand is less than that of the sea, but as we approach the equator the
former exceeds that of the latter at depths by as much as 40°, which is
equal to a difference in depth of about 2,000 feet. The main channels
of the great oceanic troughs in the tropics have a depth of 18,000 feet
or more. If we add to this 2,000 feet for the difference of temperature
between the surface and the sea-bed, and 4,000 feet for the rise under
certain mountain-chains, we shall have a total of 24,000 feet as the
approximate difference of level of the isotherm of 1,000° in adjacent
continental and oceanic areas.*

As the position of the other earth-isotherms will in like manner occupy
successive planes approximatively parallel with the surface, whether of
land or sea-bed, it follows that, if a central molten nucleus exists, it will
be divided into areas separated by boundary lines no less important
than those formed by the continental areas between the several oceanic
areas on the surface ; and, as they are even more inclosed and isolated,
their condition with regard to the possible existence of tidal action
would approach more to that of an inland sea, such as the Mediterranean,
where their influence is scarcely felt. It may bea question also whether
the rigidity of the earth’s crust is not influenced by this mode of structure.
It must certainly have affected the permanence of continental and
oceanic areas; in the one case by the convexity of the surface favoring
elevation, and in the other by the concavity favoring gradual subsid-
ence.

Notwithstanding this, it may naturally be asked, in view of the more
constant slow changes and movements to which in past times the crust
of the earth has been subject—and that even up te a period so geolog-
ically recent as the elevation of the Alps and the Andes—how it hap-
pens that it is now so quiescent and comparatively immovable. The
hypotheses both of Mr. Hopkins and Sir W. Thompson grapple with this
difficulty. The former not only considered that the crust was eight
hundred to one thousand miles thick, but he also supposed that there
were only local and limited bodies of molten matter, the rest of the
nucleus having become solid. The latter also concludes, thongh on other
grounds, that the secular refrigeration, combined with the excessive press-
ure, has led to a solidification, commencing at the center, of the whole in-
terior of our globe;+ while, as before mentioned, Mr. Mallet, admitting

*The numbers used are merely approximative.
+The Rey. Osmond Fisher, on the other hand, showed in 1873 (Geological Magazine,
vol. x, p. 248) that on the supposition of a globe becoming solid throughout at the
THE PAST AND FUTURE OF GEOLOGY. 193

the principle of a solid crust of great thickness, has proposed a theory
to account for the continued ejection of molten matter from depths not
far beneath the surface, and acting independently of any common source
of lava supply, by the conversion of the energy resulting from crushing
into heat along given lines of intense pressure.

It seems, however, to me that the uniform character appertaining to
voleanic eruptions over the whole world, the traveling of earthquake
movements, the flexibility yet evinced in movements of the crust, and
the magnitude of the later geological changes, precludes the acceptances
of the conditions suggested by these distinguished physicists, and leads
me to seek for other causes to account for the present stable condition
of the earth.

The cause which suggests itself to me is the intense cold of the glacial
period through which the earth has so recently passed, and which has,
as it were, anticipated or forestalled the refrigeration which, in ordinary
course, would have taken a longer time to effect, and so would have been
prolonged inte some subsequent period. At present, the annual varia-
tion of temperature in these latitudes extends to a depth of abont 30 feet;
the maximum heat of summer being felt underground by the end of
November, and the maximum cold of winter by the beginning of June, ata
depth of 26 feet. But supposing the cold of winter at depths not to alter-
nate with and be influenced by summer heat, then the abstraction of
heat would continue to a depth in proportion to the length of time during
which the cold at the surface was maintained ; and such must have been
the conditions over a large portion of the northern hemisphere (and I
believe of the southern contemporaneously) during the glacial period.
For as permanent ice and snow then extended down to these latitudes,
the summer sun would not sensibly affect surfaces so covered, and the
abstraction of heat must have proceeded uninterruptedly. To what
depth the effect may have extended has not yet been investigated, but
that it must have been very considerable is evident from the depth to
which the annual variations are now felt. Consequently, with a uniform
permanent temperature of 32° or lower at the surface, and considering
the long duration of the glacial period, we may form some conception of
how far beneath the surface the extreme cold must have extended;
even now, in parts of Siberia, the ground is permanently frozen to a
depth of 300 to 400 feet. Then the surface temperature in these lati-
tudes, instead of commencing as now with a mean of 50°, and attaining
a degree, say of 709, at a depth of 1,000 feet, commenced with a tem-
perature of 52° F. or less,.and the isothermal of 70° must have been

melting temperature, aud afterward cooling as a solid, the amount of crumplings and
contortions of the surface which could be produced by its subsequent refrigeration
would be very much smaller than sufficient to account for the existing inequalities of
the earth’s surface ; and hence he concluded that such has not been the mode in which
the earth has attained its present state, but that a crust commenced to form before the
interior became solid. (See also Mr. Fisher’s paper “ On the Elevation of Mountain-
Chains” in Trans. Cambridge Phil. Soc. for 1869, vol. xi, part iii.)

S. Mis. 115 13

194 THE PAST AND FUTURE OF GEOLOGY.

depressed below its present level to an extent in proportion to the dura-
tion of the glacial cold. On the return of the present more temperate
climate, that portion of the crust of the earth, measuring certainly many
hundreds, and possibly some thousands of feet in depth, which had
sutfered from this abnormal loss of heat, would have to recover its
equilibrium with existing conditions by another change in the isother-
mal planes, and, until that was effected, little or no loss by radiation would
take place.

Or to look at it in another way, let us suppose periods of equal tem-
perature before and after the glacial epoch. As the radiation of heat
is in proportion to the difference of temperature between the warm body
and the surrounding medium, the loss of heat by the earth would, if no
colder period had intervened, have been nearly equal in equal times ;
but with the greater cold of the glacial epoch, the same result would be
effected in a shorter time, or, what is tantamount, the loss in the same
time during the glacial period would be greater than in the other two
periods. Thus supposing we take any given time of the glacial period
to be productive of a refrigeration of the crust equal to that which would
be effected in a certain longer time of the pre-glacial or post-glacial
periods, then for a term of time—of length having a certain relation to
the difference between the two—succeeding the glacial epoch, the earth
would, with its outer crust so much below the normal, loose little or no
heat by radiation, so that during that subsequent period the thermo-
dynamical effects due to cooling would be reduced to a minimum or
cease altogether, and a period of nearly stable equilibrium, such as now
prevails, obtain.

This last great change in the long geological record is one of so ex-
ceptional a nature, that, as I have formerly elsewhere observed,* it
deeply impresses me with the belief of great purpose and all-wise de-
sign, in staying that progressive refrigeration and contraction on which
the movements of the crust of the earth depend, and which has thus had
imparted to it that rigidity and stability which now render it so fit and
suitable for the habitation of civilized man; for, without that immobil-
ity, the slow and constantly-recurring changes would, apart from the
rarer and greater catastrophes, have rendered our rivers unnavigable,
our harbors inaccessible, our edifices insecure, our springs ever-varying,
and our climates ever-changing ; and, while some districts would have
been gradually uplifted, other whole countries must have been gradually
submerged ; and against this inevitable destiny no human foresight
could have prevailed.

* Philosophical Transactions for 1864, p. 305.
LES

THE PAST AND FUTURE OF GEOLOGY.

“@AISNIO

“UI SYOOI OOpumMoly, 04} 0} puAmSuo07{ oy} Wor 2
“Geog ‘Spalq SUIpN[OXe 1D Y
“UOTIVZITISSOJ JO GIMP JOU Op O[NA B Sv SaTvUL
-01 9804 Boldads ‘eyVIqouvIqIpPUN TT] sutpnpoxg b

‘so1vads 000'LT Puv 000‘0T UAAM4

-0q 0} S}UNOMY TAOUY AOU SJOOSUT Jo oquINU ONT, £
“MONVZI[ISSOJ JO JIUIPS JOU Op 9[UA v Sv SaleUL

-91 9soT AA Saldads ‘soqisvaed [RUIOJUL Eg SUIpNpoxT 2
“MOLVZI[ISSOJ JO JIUIp’ JOU Op 9[U.I V Sv SUTvMAL

oso sotods ‘apljauay pelpog-3jos 90% DuIpupoxy p

HONVZTISSOJ JO IIWIpV JOU Op oN v Sv BUleUL

-01 oso sataads “ow “MpUNnqo[OH{ ¢% Satpnpoxy 2

UC GBZISSOF JO PIMIPB Jou op and

@ SU SUIvUIOL OsoqAl soldads ‘a@IUIyOVY CLT Durpnjoxg| q

‘O29 ‘BDTV 099 ‘Hun 918% ‘SossoyT LES SUI}IIMIO VD

| |
moo ae | Sb =| Om | 0 — (20 (908 =i) om acOdm em | 1G Jer. = N6e.|)0 He A se ho | x et) seeeeeeees ae
| UI [ISsoy} punoy sotoods Sutary
SS =a | ; ae a a |e Sane |S al ae ee
GCL 8T 0 G F RET 96T € L0G L0G | SS L 0 | 6 & iy «| ST | 6 |G | bE lta s Seat Eee OCOLU RIG} Oly
= ae ara leer | el | Kexeer|
916 ‘ET | 861 8T ZBs«| £88 «| «ORG «| 809'G | COL | Z66'T 998 | 898 | FES | L6 19 | FOL 189 | LG | €8€ | 861 | €¢8 Portree AADC UNS UA MDE
= es re oa bac ae ecole | cman | al | |
Oona nO mliomen| Ol lec aml 0 0 | SE 2 SES ie) Oneeg (GL: malcolm HOY geen e/a eae 0 feebbnemeeretecrme 8. oy i
ere ‘tT | 0 0 0 GL Li cor OP col 08 £9G | OFT | O 1G 9g 06 | 48 =| 0 HS = iz RBS ORS 2B CEED COStiet UBLIOTS “TL
cor 0 0 0 96L 0 0 0 [ 0 0 0 0 |G ie 0 | 0 | 0 10 €1 wocsesces* QUOJSPUBS pay PIO “OL
16€ 0 0 0 Fb GG OF Or 9€ CG OOT CItainO 0 G iS Lt a) 6 9 es ae “""* UBIMOAD(T “6
686 ‘T 0 0 61 OFG | SFL PLT 0€ 961 eel | O9T #9 Or |, 0 £6 GEL cel or € 0GE | eeaseniee ove OleSEUCULE 8
£06 0 0 LI CG T 9% it Lb 6 CB 9 0 0 ¢ G | ¢ ieee ¢ 0G [cis Siem eis sities a BLO ora),
6g Ope Omer bean ne Opa 0 0 |0 0 |0 0 |0 one a Aee= PO = SIs chi Fes Poe eee TRS)
COT e 0 £ 86 0 OT 0 GG €1 I 0 G I 0 0 | 2 | 0 0 ol! Oe ys er A ee ae OO eS
90S ‘€ | ¢ 0 68 161 Cer | €e8 0 ¢89 ose | C8l 09 GG L LE P6T | €9T GP OL | O9T ees et a ag 8P[OO PUL SEIT “fF
008 0€ 0 ef LE 0 ins 0 9¢ 6 0 0 09 0 Hel! T 10 | 0 0 8E “77777> WOppTBa A, puw yooqang ‘E
£F6 ‘T 0 G 0¢ 96 0 LOG 0 LEG LOL | LOL | OOT | 0 co | «OOF c6t | 29 LET PPL | LG eS Seabed aaa SNOBIVIIIL) °G
60L‘€ | OOT | OT €P GE | SE O81 ‘T qT ceo £6 GL | OST i PG ES ANGER, 99 Oot |G |ixeo Sead voes= AIBVIJIOT, “TE
686 ‘oy gL #SE | CL £96 | €&L cog 6 £61 ea San | TOL £ LG | IP | 0g? | Le19 | 96 | FET fe (Ifa Yel 0) PS REESE = ioe SOMOS OSI I TENE E
@ Q < co) rd oy a b> cl || rg y
3 Bele legc|. iS P| 25 y 5 hous Siepcere ||) gas |] oo o | 8 3 e =
Greece ees Sree s| SR a) Reese ee alia 8 Fe ere al eer alta amet | ated ame
a 3 : a 2 2 g oo FS = ez, 5 > ep =a a PT Sal og 8
: Fy 2 : o S 3° eh Ap S eI fe 3 & , 3 OO | :
- ? = =] 22 5 | rg D = & ® tebe |} bah S *‘pomog
p 2 © Bins ; a 2 = 3 | S| Sy aS) :
> | & | ES e z ei fetoe Pitta
. ae nal eal
po > | | eg |

‘AeQT ur unouy sarwads prssol ay) fo pun saroads juaoae fo daqunn ay, pacnduos sr yoryn ypin bprwayrgy
“yt fig pssof punof pun bur now sawads ay, fo puv ‘prep ur umpug jnaiy fo voy pun punnf pssof ayy fo woyng.gsip pun waqune ayp Hurnoys 2qQv7T,

“XIGNUddV
oP pa”
-
~ oF Pe

RE Sante
© ; i wt
ares aor Bic

ee |
Set ua ons eae
tar om are
TAT s) | : '
A ; ae »! can tent care poate | i he if wn |
we , a va siete: ae i |
ine 3 civ nn olde ene Cf heme |
ni ve rome ai
Et eae: pe : -

TAF oa
mead ; vr
ied baie sera ¢

ThE Sra |
ae ia le a
7 ‘ hiithien's nora

Tar * = Z ne f
re 7 : AY gt ,
; 3 hiithien's ave Bis

vr

Tar * = . i j
= ; ; AWY rye tii
: , py

vr
v

RE Sante |
zs : : ACS cq tenn 4
, tae =r

vr

{OF Shear |
ry : : ACS gt ,
| | cas ER Bis

vr

Tae Ry 4 at |
c, : : AY if qe tei
| si ; ey

vr

RE Sante |
gs Aa eh tea zs
| ade re

vr
uy;

Tar * = Z i f
Py 7 : AY gt ,
a hiithien's eevee

vr

_
an Tee
= y te Dee

mE

TOF Shes |
Ps Bea aa
| Lone a
:. caer |

RE Sante |
zs : : ACS cq tenn 4
, tae ova

vr

tir 4 im |
cya cine he ear
TOF Spar |
Py a <i Bs rat tt }
icin
; eee

RE Sante |
gs Aa eh tea zs
| ade =r

vr
uy;

Tar * = Z a f
re 7 : AY ct 3

vr

aE +5
TYR ee: ;
. a :
oe ee
es ad ff teeoe

EIN

tir oh,
Ce ° =r, . ce trie

a A
TH
