"Sie : ae ee
ob he ee nee rs

°

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

EXPLORATIONS AND FIELD-WORK OF THE
SMITHSONTAN INSTITUTION
IN 1937

(PUBLICATION 3480)

CITY OF WASHINGTON
PUBLISHED BY THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION
1938
The Lord Baltimore Press

BALTIMORE, MD., U. 8. A.

y

PREFACE

The present pamphlet is intended as a preliminary announcement
of Smithsonian field expeditions during the calendar year 1937. A
large percentage of the Institution’s researches are concerned with the
sciences of geology, biology, and anthropology, and in these sciences
field-work plays an important role. Many investigations in the natural
sciences depend largely upon data which can only be obtained through
actual work in the field. Such expeditions are necessary also to fill
in gaps in the study collections of the National Museum, which form
the basis for much of the Institution’s research.

Some of the expeditions herein described were financed wholly by
the Institution, but others were cooperative undertakings with other
organizations interested in the promotion of the same sciences. The
technical results of these expeditions and of the investigations to
which they relate will later appear in one of the other series of pub-
lications issued by the Institution and two of its branches, the National
Museum and the Bureau of American Ethnology.

W. PB. TRuE, Editor.
CONTENTS

PAGE
antler Robert Ace Greenlandsexpedition Ob lOs 7a en eatee aero 51
Bartsch, Paul. Smithsonian-Roebling expedition to Cuba................. 65
Bartsch, Paul. Heredity experiments in Virginia and West Virginia...... 69
Beach, William N. With the moose and caribou in Alaska.....:......... 45
Bushnell, David I., Jr. Ancient sites on the banks of the Rappahannock in
WIPERS ss eR ae Ue erat gil a es ea po RUE Wren hss Core a a ier i 107
Chapin, Edward A. Collecting insects on the Island of Jamaica.......... 73
Clark, Await Isl Woverloyercisenbics Or Wiidestiielos sodoouaucdodednordoducanae Da
Conger, Paul S. Exploring the lakes of northern Wisconsin............. 81
Cooper, G. Arthur. Collecting fossils in Michigan, Pennsylvania, New York,
sya, (Cait key aes aera a ene ern a stren eae atte eK NS Nes Eon SI Ue ea cnn ee 9
[Drsitetnayny, ale Gao 1Bog 0) orate soit lana pesin dec ad oto cin nice me Mao cmin opie ee cs athe 4I
Gilmore, Charles W. Fossil hunting in Utah and Arizona................ I
Biemenson, 1, IPs Whim Ol INOKSloocoscoscuseccodooododecusosiuesds 6 13

Hrdlicka, Ales. Anthropological explorations on the Aleutian and Com-

FAR ACGISHE: DUST ava kay wae pa oe oa ET ado eae US rea Niet ade a ka Net po  t ea 87
Krieger, Herbert W. Archeology of the Virgin Islands.................. 95
Mann, W. M. The National Geographic Society-Smithsonian expedition to

PTE AG PPM CLE Sire ate cence a aats Sipe aes aay MRR eh Mets epee ty Ste el aoe ncaa 35
Michelson, Truman. Studies among the Montagnais-Naskapi Indians of

ie mOMENSan Sore Cie WS Su, WENACCS IVSrsacboooksodaoauadoudoos 119
Miller, Gerrit S., Jr. Collecting animals and plants in Panama, 1937........ 27
Perrygo, Watson M. Collecting birds and mammals in Tennessee........ 31

Resser, Charles E. The Cambrian rocks of New York, Vermont, and
ONES ECs Saas eG Oe ea See Oo Carns Reema rer IDES pea Were a LEON 5

Roberts, Frank H. H., Jr. The Lindenmeier site in northern Colorado con-

tributes additional data on the Folsom complex.......:............. II5
Schmitt, Waldo L. The Smithsonian-Hartford expedition to the West

Maa StS kU YG rete oe sets ato Be ee) er me EUR oe ga MRE tea ae ata 57
Swrasator,, Ioan IX, Jee kiarer (ero). De Soro se irehilles's oa Goacdoussossacoeaenos TeTOH
Wedel, Waldo R. Inaugurating an archeological survey in Kansas....... 103

Wetmore, Alexander. With the birds of northwestern Venezuela.......... 19
INOSSINL, TSUOJN MUNG: JON, 1OIMasl JAUN ID) eURIVAOIN GA

By CHARLES W. GILMORE
Curator of Vertebrate Paleontology, U. S. National Museum

The 1937 Smithsonian Paleontological Expedition for fossil verte-
brates had as its main objective the exploration of certain geological
formations that occurred on and around North Horn Mountain in
central Utah. This area had been brought to our attention by mem-
bers of the U. S. Geological Survey because of the fact that some
1,650 vertical feet of beds originally mapped as Wasatch, Eocene,
were later found to carry fragmentary dinosaur and mammalian fos-
sils. The hope of obtaining identifiable specimens that would accu-
rately date these deposits and also the hope of opening up a new field
for horned and other dinosaurian specimens were the motives which
actuated this undertaking.

The party, consisting of Messrs. George F. Sternberg and George
B. Pearce under the direction of the writer, established camp at the
Olsen Ranch in “Joes Valley”’ in the Manti National Forest on
June 15. On the following day under the guidance of Dr. EF. M.
Spieker, of Ohio State University, who had mapped the geology of
the region and was therefore conversant with all aspects of the field,
collecting was begun.

On the very first day Pearce made the amazing discovery of an
articulated skeleton of a very large sauropodous dinosaur, a totally
unexpected find in an Upper Cretaceous formation in which also
occurred the remains of ceratopsian dinosaurs. Only once before has
such an association been found, and that in the San Juan Basin in
New Mexico, where Dr. John B. Reeside, Jr., in 1921 found the type
specimen of Alamosaurus sanjuanensis Gilmore, which the present
specimen appears to resemble closely. Although subsequent study
may modify such a conclusion, the inference at present is that these
Utah deposits containing dinosaurian remains on North Horn Moun-
tain are equivalent in age to those in New Mexico.

The Alamosaurus skeleton was found in a badland area at the south
end of North Horn Mountain. It was lying on its back with the
anterior part of the skeleton projecting from the outcrop. The head
and neck had long since been eroded away and destroyed. The dorsal
series, owing to its proximity to the surface, was so soft and disinte-
grated as to be valueless and therefore was not collected. The left
fore limb and foot in the articulated position as found (fig. 2)
measured g feet in length, which gives some idea of the great size of

I
i)

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Fic. 1—Camp at Olsen ranch in Joes Valley, Emery County, Utah.
(Photograph by G. F. Sternberg.)

Fic. 2—Articulated skeleton of sauropod dinosaur partly uncovered as it lay in
the ground. (Photograph by G. F. Sternberg.)
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1937 3

Fie. 3.—Plastered blocks of sauropod skeleton. North Horn Mountain in the
background. (Photograph by G. F. Sternberg.)

Fic. 4——Hauling bones of sauropod dinosaur. (Photograph by G. F. Sternberg.)
4 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

the individual. In the 3 weeks of continuous work required to exca-
vate and prepare the bones for shipment to the National Museum
about one-third of the skeleton was recovered.

Another specimen found in these same deposits, also worthy of
special mention, is the disarticulated skull and parts of skeleton of a
horned dinosaur. When the scattered elements are prepared and
assembled it is estimated the skull will have a length of more than
6 feet. It appears to represent a form new to science, and further
interest attaches to this discovery as it greatly extends the western
geographical range of the Ceratopsia in North America.

Later in the season special search was made of the overlying beds,
in which a single skull fragment of a mammal had previously been
found by Messrs. Reeside and Spieker. This work was rewarded by
the recovery of a small collection of identifiable skull and jaw frag-
ments carrying teeth, which was sufficient to indicate definitely for
the first time the Paleocene age of this part of the geologic section.

Just as the season drew to a close in this area, the discovery of six
more or less complete articulated skeletons of a small lizard made a
fitting climax to our explorations. These lizard specimens represent
an undescribed form, and they so thoroughly supplement one another
that a knowledge will be gained of practically the entire skeletal
anatomy. These specimens are among the oldest lizards known from
North America and the most perfectly preserved of any yet discovered.

The work of collecting in this area, especially of dinosaurian re-
mains, was particularly arduous. The steepness of the exposures,
the 8,o00-feet elevation, and the inaccessibility of much of the terrain
to the motor car, added much manual labor to the collector’s task.

On August 1, after having boxed and shipped the collections made,
we proceeded by motor from Price, Utah, to Holbrook, Ariz., where
according to our original plan for the season’s work, 3 weeks were
spent in the exploration of the Chinle division of the Triassic for its
fossil vertebrates.

Here most of our work was in the badland areas bordering the
Petrified Forest. Our work here was greatly facilitated by the gen-
erous assistance given by Ranger Naturalist M. V. Walker of the
National Park Service. In the short time at our disposal we were
fortunate in accumulating a representative collection from the Chinle,
material that was badly needed to round out the Triassic part of the
paleontological collections of the National Museum. Three phytosaur
and two stegocephalian skulls are worthy of special mention.

In all, the specimens collected on this expedition filled 13 large
cases, which had a combined weight of 5,729 pounds.
THE CAMBRIAN ROCKS OF NEW YORK, VERMONT,
AND QUEBEC

By CHARLES E. RESSER
Curator, Division of Invertebrate Paleontology, U. S. National Musewm

Cambrian rocks were studied during the past field season in New
York, Vermont, and Quebec, and the work was doubly interesting
because it was done in very attractive portions of America. On the
way to the first objective in the Adirondack Mountains, Cambrian
outcrops in central Pennsylvania were briefly studied. Folds and
faults here bring up old rocks, exposing a sequence which matches
that of the southern Appalachians and which constitutes the most
northerly outcrops of the older Paleozoic beds west of the
Appalachian Valley.

The first objective of the season was examination of the Potsdam
and related Cambrian formations on the flanks of the Adirondack
Mountains. During Upper Cambrian times marine waters entering
the continent surrounded an old rock mass, now the Adirondacks.
These present uplands were then evidently low islands in the Cambrian
sea. Today the Cambrian formations flank the mountains on the
northern and eastern sides but are absent by overlap of younger
strata on the south and west. However, the outcrops do not form a
continuous belt around the mountains as they must have when de-
posited. Inliers show that formerly the Cambrian beds extended
much farther in toward the center of the mountain mass than they
do now. Radial faults, possibly formed during the building of the
Appalachian Mountains to the east, separated the margins of the
Adirondacks into blocks, which were moved up or down with respect
to each other. The down-dropped blocks were protected from the
full force of erosion agents, particularly recent glaciation, and hence
retain the layers of Cambrian rocks. At many places glacial drift
covers large areas. Through removal of the Cambrian beds in some
areas and covering by glacial drift in others, only isolated patches of
the rocks remain for study.

Fossils are rare in the sandstones which comprise much of the Cam-
brian sequence and which rest on the granitic foundation of the Adi-
rondacks. These sandstones grade upward into calcareous beds. Since
the calcareous material is chiefly magnesium, the rocks are dolomite,
a type of matrix which seldom preserves fossils.

After the melting of the ice sheets, the streams radiating from the
higher portions of the Adirondacks flowed in new channels. Those

5
6 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Fic. 5.-Ausable Chasm, New York.

Fic. 6—St. Lawrence River. Montmorency Falls in center, Laurentian Mountains
in background.
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1937 W),

ENG),
Os: <
II

: .
: 7

Re
ENN
oo

Fic. 8.—Percé, Quebec from the top of Mount St. Ann.
8 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

which had to cross a belt or patch of the sedimentary Cambrian
rocks were able to cut valleys rapidly, producing vertical-walled
canyons. Most of these are picturesque, the best being Ausable Chasm,
annually visited by thousands of people.

A second major objective was study of the Cambrian sequence in
northwestern Vermont. Conditions there contrast strongly with those
in the Adirondack area across Lake Champlain. The Green Moun-
tains and hills of Vermont belong to the Appalachian Mountain
system, hence the rocks are strongly folded and overthrust. In the
Adirondack Mountains marine waters first flooded the flanks of the
old land mass to deposit Upper Cambrian beds which still remain
as more or less horizontal layers. In Vermont, however, the Cam-
brian sequence begins with the much older Lower Cambrian, and
intensive folding and faulting have given both the landscape and the
outcrops quite a different aspect. The earth movements altered the
limestones and shales into marbles and slates, which in turn gave rise
to one of Vermont’s chief industries.

The third major objective of the summer's work was study of the
Lower Cambrian deposits in the St. Lawrence valley. Outcrops begin
at Lévis, directly opposite Quebec City, and extend intermittently
along the river for more than 200 miles, as very peculiar occurrences.
The rocks are limestones like those in the Straits of Belle Isle, Labra-
dor, but occur here only as boulders in limestone conglomerate. Out-
crops of such bedded rock are unknown along this vast stretch of
the river. Why and how these deposits came into existence is an
unsolved geological problem even though studied for about 100 years.

Some of the limestone pebbles yield excellent fossils, but collect-
ing is difficult because both the pebbles and matrix are composed of
limestone so that both disintegrate simultaneously. Fossiliferous peb-
bles may be seen but, since they are not on the edge of the rock mass,
cannot be broken out.

Near the tip of Gaspé Peninsula Cambrian strata have been found
in two small areas. These occurrences are intensely folded strata,
a continuation of the Appalachian system, and show thereby that the
seaways extended the great distance from central Alabama. Perce on
the tip of the Gaspé Peninsula is one of the most attractive places in
the world. Vertical cliffs of red, cream, and gray rocks, grassy slopes,
forested mountains, fish-drying racks, attractive homes, fishing boats,
and the sea combine to produce a beautiful picture. For years an
artist colony has tried to put some of this beauty on canvas, and
travelers are rejoiced by spending a few days at Perce.
SOEREECIMING FOSSIES IN MICHIGAN, PENNSYEV ANIA;
NEW YORK, AND CANADA

By Gu wkeb EUIRG COORER
Assistant Curator, Division of Stratigraphic Paleontology,
U. S. National Museum

To collect fossils needed in current investigations in the Division
of Stratigraphic Paleontology, the writer made three separate field
trips during the summer of 1937: a month in Michigan, a week in
Pennsylvania, and 2 weeks in the Champlain Valley of New York and
southern Canada.

Michigan.—During three previous trips to Alpena and Petoskey
the writer studied the strata and collected fossils from Middle
Devonian rocks. The month of June was spent in the vicinity of
Alpena, Petoskey, and Onaway in an effort to correct suspected
errors in stratigraphy and to collect better specimens of certain kinds
of fossils. The results of the work were satisfactory in data collected
and important additions to the collection.

Pennsylvania.—The Tully formation is a stratum lying at the base
of the Upper Devonian. Although this formation and its contained
fossils are well known in New York, it is largely through the efforts
of Dr. Bradford Willard, of the Pennsylvania Topographic and Geo-
logic Survey, that rocks of Tully age have been identified in Pennsyl-
vania. The writer, because of his familiarity with the New York
Tully, was invited by Dr. Willard to examine rocks of this formation
in Pennsylvania. A pleasant week was spent with Dr. Willard in
tracing this formation from a point near Everett in south-central
Pennsylvania northeastward to a point not far south of Pottsville
in the east-central part of the State. The Tully outcrop extends from
this latter point to Milford near the New York-Pennsylvania line.

Unlike New York, where the Devonian rocks are nearly flat, these
strata in Pennsylvania have been thrown into gigantic folds having
in general a northeast-southwest trend. The great anticlines and syn-
clines are also complicated by cross-folds, causing the northeast-
southwest trending structures to pitch under the surface at places.
The outcrops of Devonian rocks thus form elongate and canoe-shaped
patterns.

Dr. Willard and the writer started their studies about 40 miles
north of the Maryland State line at the settlement of Eichelburger-
town. Here the Tully is 3 feet thick and is composed mainly of lime-
stone. The limestone thickens along the Alleghany Front to 35 feet

9
INSTITUTION

SMITHSONIAN

1G@)

we “eq ‘Ayunod) ps0y
-pog ‘UMO}JoSInqjeyoIy “(eq pue jeYy UsoMjoq) AT[nN]T, peuutyy, pv eq ‘usdeyxooT aytsoddo *(491Y4} Joof OOT
qnoge) oansodxe NOES Ayny “€ “eq ‘Ayunoy uojzuryg ‘usavyyoo7] opsoddo ‘auojzsouny Ayny, ul Surpurq
uogghy “cf “YI ‘AjyunoD es] enbsoirg ‘sy[ey{ L0anboQ ‘auojsouity ULIUOAD SNOAIFITISSOF jo yng “I—6 “oI

v £

a a ee
II

SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1937

‘QUO}SOUN]

i

Azeyy)

oC

“KON ‘oppiAtodooy ‘auoysauny Azeyd ul Joor stodoyemodys “F “epeued) ‘saqan()
‘SAPY Teo ‘9}BIOWO][SUOD IYSAPY Ul Jopynoq snosopfIssoy osseqT “© “AR “N ‘urejdureyd) yer
punoisa10y ul auoysouny, AzeyD “KR “N ‘JUIOg UMOID Je YOY YsHig *

J quIog Aeq
I— OI ‘DIyy

12 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

near Mount Eagle and to nearly 250 feet at Lock Haven. To the east
and southwest the limestone thins to 35 feet at Danville and to a few
inches near Mandatta. Southwest of this place on the Juniata River,
about 30 miles northwest of Harrisburg, the formation is composed
of a thin calcareous layer and about 15 feet of shale. Traced east-
ward from here the lime content disappears and the Tully fauna has
been found in shale and sandstone in eastern Pennsylvania. During
this investigation a number of good collections were made from this
little-known formation and also from the underlying Hamilton rocks.

New York and Canada.—This trip was undertaken with Dr. Josiah
Bridge of the United States Geological Survey. The purpose was
threefold: to study Ordovician (Chazyan) rocks at their type section,
Chazy, N. Y.; to collect fossils from the Mystic conglomerate of
southern Quebec ; and to study type fossils from the Chazy formation
in the National Museum of Canada at Ottawa, Ontario.

1. The Chazy formation is well exposed at its type section in
Chazy, N. Y., which lies just below the Canadian border on the shores
of Lake Champlain. These rocks are also well exposed at Crown
Point, N. Y. In fact the walls of the old French fort and those of
the later English fort at Crown Point were built of blocks of this
limestone quarried from nearby ledges.

At Chazy the rocks are mostly massive limestones broken into
blocks by faults. Nearly the entire sequence is present at Chazy and
can be seen just west of the village. Fossils are common, particularly
a large flat snail known as Maclurea. Collections were made at Chazy
and also at Crown Point.

2. From Chazy the party moved to Bedford in southern Quebec.
Here occur outcrops of a peculiar conglomerate made of large boulders
of limestone containing fossils of different geologic ages. One type
of boulder contains fossils related to species found farther south at
Phillipsburg, Quebec, and in Vermont. Another type of boulder con-
tains a fauna whose nearest relative is found in Newfoundland. Good
collections of peculiar fossils were taken from two large boulders of
this latter type.

3. After two days in Bedford the party went on to Ottawa with a
short stop at McGill University in Montreal. Between Hawkesbury
and Ottawa small collections of Chazyan fossils were made in road-
side cuts and quarries. Two days were spent in studying type speci-
mens in the National Museum of Canada. On the return trip to
Washington a short stop was made at a large quarry on the Colgate
University Campus at Hamilton, N. Y., where a few fine Devonian
fossils were collected.
MINERALS OF RUSSIA

BYE bs HENDERSON

Assistant Curator, Division of Physical and Chemical Geology,
U. S. National Museum

The International Geological Congress was held in Moscow in 1937,
and it was my good fortune to represent the Smithsonian Institution
at the meetings. As is customary at these congresses, several pre- and
post-congress excursions were offered, and advantage was taken of
one of each to see the geology as well as the countryside of Russia.
Before the congress I spent a profitable month in visiting the museums
and scientific institutions in England, Scotland, Norway, Sweden, and
Finland. On June 30, | crossed the Finnish-Russian boundary just
one day before the pre-congress excursion departed from Leningrad
to the Kola Peninsula, the northernmost point of European Russia.

Now at last I was within a vast country whose language and eco-
nomic structure differed from any other I had heretofore visited.
Being in possession of much advance advice and instruction, yes, even
warnings, | found myself always interpreting everything I encoun-
tered or experienced in accordance with knowledge gained by some-
one else. I believe most newcomers to Russia experience this same
mental confusion, and it was not until I had been there several days—
in fact, about as many days as the average American tourist stays—
that I began to see Russia as it really is. I found the Russians easy
people to meet and be friendly with, so that even the lack of a com-
mon language did not altogether hinder the making of friends or the
exchange of many simple courtesies.

The trip to the Kola Peninsula was made by train, supplemented
by boat and motor car. The entire trip can be made by train, but it
was our wish to see the geology and mineral resources of this coun-
try, and many interesting side trips were arranged for us. There are
two political subdivisions in this territory, Karelia, and the Murmansk
District of the Leningrad Province; much of the latter lies north of
the Arctic Circle.

Karelia is essentially a wooded country, about 90 percent of the
country being covered with fine timber. Lumbering has been and
perhaps will remain for years the principal industry of this district.
The mining industry of Karelia, although very young, is growing
rapidly. The region is not richly mineralized with metallic deposits,
but there are abundant sandstones and igneous rocks which are being
extensively used in Leningrad and Moscow for building and paving

13
4 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

I'tc. 12.—Reworking the platinum placer ground at Nizhny Tagil in northern
Ural Mountains.

Fic. 13.—A relic of Old Russia.
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1937

“SUIUTUL YIM ‘QoUdIINIIO ojeydsoyd jsojevois

po}youuO0D solynp snonpse snowed ut padojdus ApUenbazF Spjjom oy. ‘YS 'S ‘Q ‘ejOM, “YysAosrsy azeau ysodap
o1e UNWIOAA “TRO OUI eB suTYsnd [ils ueIssny—SI “OI ayjede IJOYWINASIYNY 94} JO dV} SULYIOM 94 [—PI ‘oI

ceeRERTE

acon

16 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

stone. After several days in Leningrad one senses the magnitude of
the extensive reconstruction work in progress, and since Karelia is
the nearest source of essential material, it is only natural that this area
will continue to expand and develop its mineral resources.

The general features of Karelia resemble those of Finland; it is
essentially a lowland with many lakes, rivers, and marshes. In the
northern portion there are some hills 2,000 feet in elevation, but the
elevation of the larger portion of the district is less than half that
figure, and to the east along the White Sea the country flattens out to
a marshy lowland. There are thousands of small lakes and one very
large one, Lake Onega, which covers about 10,000 square miles.

North of Karelia lies the Kola district, and although north of the
Arctic Circle, it has a comparatively moderate climate. Murmansk,
a city of over 100,000 people and the largest town in the Arctic, is
the only seaport of Russia on the north that is free from ice all the
year round. The water about Leningrad, over a thousand miles to
the south, is frozen solidly during the winter. The same warm ocean
current that furnishes England, Norway, and Sweden with a mild
climate spends almost the last of its warmth keeping ice from form-
ing on this northern shore. Murmansk, therefore, with rich resources
of lumber and minerals and with all-year-round access to the open
sea, will certainly become an important city.

The mining industry centered around Kirovsk is one of the most
recent developments in Russia. There is one of the world’s great
deposits of phosphate ore, apatite, which is closely connected with
the intrusion of the nepheline syenites, and in and around this peculiar
igneous complex are many rare minerals, some of them found in
rather large quantities. The Soviet geologists have done a large
amount of systematic prospecting to uncover these minerals, and the
area is a veritable paradise for mineralogists.

Kola Peninsula also supports other important activities. Off shore
is a fine fishing ground, and every day trainloads of fish leave the
north for the larger cities farther south. The region is by no means
a barren, bleak waste as many suppose, but does have agricultural
possibilities. We ate potatoes, green vegetables, and strawberries that
had been raised on experimental farms and also saw a good herd of
dairy cattle grazing in the fields. The country looks promising, espe-
cially when visited during the period of 24-hour sunshine. What it
is like in winter may be a different story, but the Soviets are making
serious efforts to develop the entire area.

Following the northern excursion, several days were spent in Mos-
cow, where the scientific meetings of the Congress were held, and a
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1937 WW 7/

Fic. 16.—View of glaciated valley in Khibine Mountain, Kola district,
U.S. S. R. The plateau is about 3,000 feet above sea level. Photograph taken
in mid July.

Pic. 17.—Bazhenov deposit of asbestos on the east slope of Ural Mountains
near Sverdlovsk. A very rich and extensive deposit of high grade asbestos.

Fic. 18.—A typical Russian village street.
ite) SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

special trip was made to Leningrad to visit the museums and institu-
tions. The delegates were well entertained and extended many cour-
tesies not ordinarily given to tourists. To me, even more interesting
than the meetings, were the museums and other special exhibits pre-
pared for us. A certain similarity exists among mineral collections in
whatever part of the world they are found, but when one first enters a
Russian museum he is at once impressed by the many new occurrences
of minerals with which the rest of the world is altogether too un-
familiar. The Soviets have been very active geologically and have
many prospecting parties out each year. It is only natural, therefore,
that such activity should bring to light many fine mineral specimens
and new localities.

Of the post-congress excursions, that to the Ural Mountains was
the most interesting. The Urals for years have been known as a highly
mineralized area, and today their mineral resources are being de-
veloped at a greatly accelerated rate. These mountains are not high,
nor did we see many peaks, but here is some of the finest scenery of
Russia. One approaches the Urals by crossing a long plateau about
1,000 feet in elevation, on which are many vast wheat fields and
abundant timber.

The Ilmen Mountains were visited and our respects paid to some
of the old classical mineral localities. Chrome, asbestos, talc, mag-
nesite, iron, nickel, coal, and platinum deposits were examined, as well
as many local quarry outcrops, and at every locality members of the
congress were permitted to collect mineral specimens.

Geologically Russia is the most active country I have ever seen,
thousands of geologists and prospectors being in the field each year.
It is therefore logical to expect that many new discoveries will be
made, as the Soviet Union is one of the largest unexplored and unde-
veloped areas in the world. The Soviets will consume most of their
mineral production in developing their own country and will possibly
need to supplement some of their metalliferous production with im-
ports from abroad. Today, however, Russia has asbestos, phosphates,
and magnesite in huge quantities to export, as well as some petroleum.

Returning to Moscow from the Ural Mountains, I turned over my
collections to the officials for shipment to America and departed for
Odessa on the Black Sea. Thence my journey led across the Black
Sea, through the beautiful Bosphorus, and on to the Island of Ceylon,
where a week was spent visiting the sapphire districts and graphite

mines. Finally, before returning to America, I visited Japan, where ©

several weeks were spent in the scientific laboratories and institutions.
WITH THE BIRDS OF NORTHWESTERN VENEZUELA
By ALEXANDER WETMORE

Assistant Secretary, Smithsonian Institution

After a field acquaintance of a year with the birdlife of the southern
republics of South America it has long been my desire to make simi-
lar studies in the northern part of that great continent. Opportunity
for this finally came when on October 16, 1937, I arrived in Caracas,
Venezuela. Through the friendly cooperation of the American Minis-
ter, Mr. Meredith Nicholson, and the gracious assistance of Dr. E. Gil
Borges, Ministro de Relaciones Exteriores of Venezuela, the neces-
sary permissions for travel and for collecting specimens were quickly
arranged. The Minister of the Departmento de Agricultura y Cria,
Sr. H. Parra Pérez, and the Director de Tierras Baldias, Bosques
y Aguas, Sr. Miguel Parra Sanoja of the same department, were
deeply interested in my proposed studies and afforded the fullest
cooperation.

Field-work began at Maracay on October 21 in company with Mr.
Ventura Barnés, who accompanied me on many days afield and whose
knowledge of local conditions was invaluable. The following day
Dr. Henri Pittier, the veteran botanist, strong and active at the age
of 80, took me into the great Parque Nacional recently established
by the Venezuelan Government as a wild life reserve.

Beginning near Guamitas 14 kilometers northwest of Maracay, this
huge reservation extends over the mountain range of the Cordillera
de la Costa, and down across the northern lowlands to the sea. The
far-sighted policy on the part of the Government in establishing this
park at the present time must have the highest commendation of all
interested in conservation since it will preserve for the future areas
of forest and other natural resources that would otherwise have been
lost forever through commercial exploitation.

My quarters here were first in a house belonging to the Department
of Agriculture, located back of the beach near Ocumare de la Costa.
Rocky headlands extended into the sea on either side, and a rushgrown
lagoon lay back of the wave-washed sands of the beach. Inland a
level, open plain led to steep, rocky hills, grown with huge cacti and
thorny shrubs.

The open brush swarmed with birds, abundant not only individually
but with great variety in species. Tiny hummingbirds, brilliant green
in color, and yellow-breasted honey creepers swarmed about the deli-

19
INSTITUTION

SMITHSONIAN

20

“ZEO1
‘JT JoquIsAONY “AwovIeyY Avo ‘enslivoey, op euasIpuy
VZe]q SUI}SoIOJUL 9}

UL UleJUNOJ Uopoul W—o7 “DIY

“LEO ‘VE 19qG0}IO
‘eYsOD LP] op aieWINIG Jesu ‘eIDUapuadapuUyT je JOYNe 9}
YUM ‘(VY SIt ye) JstuejJoOg ayy ‘Jog mWuay] “IGQ— OI ‘oyT

SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1937 21

Fic. 21.—Shore of the lagoon near Ocumare de la Costa, with the rest house
on the beach in the background. October 25, 1937.

Fic. 22——A view of the mountains near Rancho Grande, from the shore of
the lagoon at Ocumare de la Costa. October 27, 1037.
22 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

cate, scented flowers of small mimosas. Curious flycatchers of many
species, ranging from those half the size of a chickadee to the robust
Derby flycatcher as large as a robin, frequented the open forest or
its brushy borders. Small pigeons flew up on every hand as I traveled
the cattle trails, and occasionally I came across long-billed jacamars
or stolid puff-birds resting quietly on open limbs.

Excursions in the hilly country toward the base of the mountains
took me into more humid sections with dense, green plant growth in
whose somber shades lived short-tailed woodland wrens, brown wood-
hewers—perching birds with stiffened tail-feathers that climb on trees
like woodpeckers—hummingbirds, tanagers, brilliant manakins with
black breasts, red crowns, and light blue backs, and many other
interesting birds. '

The lagoon was always attractive, with its groups of long-toed
jacganas that walked about on the grassy banks like chickens, its tiny
grebes that floated on its surface, and its herons and egrets that waded
in its shallows. Red-breasted vermuilion flycatchers frequented trees
on its borders, and white-breasted marsh flycatchers (Fluvicola pica)
hawked like swallows over its surface.

While the native birds were always strange and curious I found
equal interest in the many migrants from North America that dur-
ing the latter part of October were arriving daily from their long
flight across the Caribbean sea for a winter in the Tropics. Barn
swallows rested on wires or cruised for insects over the open plain,
black-poll warblers, redstarts, and an occasional black-throated blue
warbler came into trees near the house or were found in the brush
inland, and flocks of pectoral, white-rumped, and Baird’s sandpipers,
en route from nesting grounds near the Arctic Circle to a winter home
in Patagonia, ranged over the muddy shallows of the lagoon. On the
lagoon itself were little flocks of blue-winged teal. One morning at
dawn while watching through powerful binoculars a long-winged
man-o’-war bird far out at sea I saw in the distance beyond it a tiny
moving speck driving in from the north toward the land. Gradually
this object became larger until finally as it reached the beach and rose
a little to pass over it I identified it as a swiftly flying blue-winged
teal. I realized then that I was actually observing one of our northern
birds as it made a landfall on the Venezuelan coast after its long
flight across the ocean.

The first of November I moved to a country house in the mountains
near Rancho Grande at an elevation of 3,200 feet, a short distance
below El Portachuelo where the road crosses the pass to descend to
the coastal area on the north. The mountain slopes were grown. with
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1937 23

Fic. 23.—The precipitous peaks from which the town of San Juan de los
Morros takes its name. November 21, 10937.

Fic. 24——Farmhouse at Hato Paya, in the northern Llanos. November 12,
1937.
24 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

dense rain forest where huge trees rose from buttressed roots to
heights of 150 feet or more. Their trunks were wound with climbing
figs and other vines, masses of parasitic plants covered their limbs,
and from their tops long, slender lianas hung like ropes, sometimes
dropping 50 to 75 feet without leaf or branch to break their straight,
symmetrical lines. Below there were dense growths of shrubbery,
palms with trunks set closely with long, black, needle-shaped spines
that reminded me always of spine-covered sea-urchins, and masses of
vines and creepers. The vegetation everywhere was saturated with
water from the daily afternoon rains.

In this great, uninhabited forest birds were as abundant as in the
lowlands, though sometimes they were found with difficulty because
of the dense growth. Walking quietly, aided by the wet leaves under-
foot, I came across long-legged, stub-tailed ant-birds (Grallaria
haplonota) that ran alertly on the ground like robins, but that at any
noise slipped silently away. Brilliant cotingas (Euchlornis formosa)
with bright green backs, yellow underparts, and a large spot of deep
red in the center of the breast ate the drupes of berry-bearing shrubs
in company with a brilliant company of small tanagers whose colors
embraced the most vivid hues of the spectrum. Musical-voiced wood
wrens (Henicorhina) sang from shadowy tangles, while in the bushes
above were ant-shrikes, flycatchers, and allied species in almost end-
less variety. The tree tops were given to warblers, honey-creepers,
parrots, small hawks and trogons, while in the sky above were swifts
and swallows. Often the report of my gun brought answer from
hoarse-voiced howler monkeys ranging wooded ridges a mile away
across deep valleys.

In early November with Mr. Ventura Barnes I left Maracay one
morning at dawn and traveled southward. We drove slowly until
noon, watching for birds, our road traversing a broad, open valley
bounded by rolling hills, and crossing many shallow streams. After
many years of anticipation | was at last to see something of the Llanos,
the great, level plains that extend down to the Rio Orinoco. We came
out of the hills below Ortiz, to find the land level but grown with
dense thorn scrub. The elevation ran from 360 to 400 feet above sea
level though we were far in the interior. That night we reached the
little settlement of El Sombrero where I remained while Mr. Barnés
returned to Maracay.

The town was placed beside the Rio Guarico, a swiftly flowing,
shallow, muddy stream. Here there were open prairies, some of them
more than a mile in extent, on which I found the spur-winged plover
(Belonopterus), an old friend of previous expeditions farther south.
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1937 25

Fic. 25.—An open savanna near El Sombrero in the Llanos. November 15,
1937.

Fic. 26.—Evening on the Rio Guarico at El Sombrero. November 16, 1937.
26 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

The thorn scrub extended on every hand like a level sea until, 15 or
20 miles farther south, there opened vast savannas with stony soil
grown with low bunch grass across which autos were driven during
the dry season in any direction without regard to roads.

In this primitive region with its small human population the general
conditions reminded me strongly of the Chaco of northern Argentina,
Paraguay, and Bolivia. Here I found birds in great abundance, many
of kinds not encountered previously. Large, yellow-headed, yellow-
breasted blackbirds (Gymnomystax mexicanus) ranged in flocks
over the prairies ; pigeons, large and small, abounded; and speckled,
crested quail rose with roaring wings to dash away through the bushes.
One little brown-cheeked parrakeet was known to the native boys as
cara sucia, or “dirty face.” Hawks and falcons were abundant, and it
was instructive to note that other birds, both of game and nongame
varieties, did not seem to suffer in the least from the large numbers
of these predators. Those who have destroyed our hawks in the
United States would do well to study such a situation.

After the shade of the dark forests of Rancho Grande the brilliant
sun of the Llanos was almost oppressive for the first two days.
Though the rainy season was at an end, torrential rains came nearly
every afternoon so that the air was constantly humid.

Along the Rio Guarico were dense lowland forests where parrots,
flycatchers, warblers, and hosts of other birds abounded. One tiny
tropical vireo (Pachysylvia aurantifrons) sang clearly re-search,
re-search, re-sedrch, a scientific reminder that there was much to learn
in this fascinating region. Along small channels running back from
the river to my surprise I found the uncouth hoatzin, a species that I
had not expected so far from the Orinoco. This is a bird related to
the fowls, that lives in low trees and bushes over water, flies only
when necessary, and feeds on leaves, for which it has developed a
large crop with curious muscular walls. When young, the hoatzin
with claw-armed wings climbs about in the branches near its nest like
some reptile.

The northern Llanos marked my final point for work, and I re-
mained here until the last possible moment. There followed a day in
Maracay, devoted to packing the nearly 450 birds that I had secured,
and two days in Caracas for official calls and visits. On November 25
I came down again to La Guaira, and sailed for the north on the Grace
Line boat Caracas. All through the afternoon from the sundeck of the
ship I watched the dim outline of the steadily receding coast range
with the hope that some day I might return for further studies of
Venezuelan birds.

COLLECTING ANIMALS AND PLANTS IN PANAMA, 1937

By GERRIT S. MILLER, JR.
Curator, Division of Mammals, U. S. National Museum

During the dry season of 1937 I visited Panama in order to become
acquainted with a typical area in the continental tropics and to collect
vertebrates and plants needed to supplement the large series of speci-
mens from this region already in the National Museum. Accompanied
by my wife and Charles M. Wheeler, a recent Harvard graduate in
biology, I spent three months and three days in and near the Canal
Zone, January-April, 1937, as the guest of Colonel Stuart C. Godfrey,
in command of the Eleventh Engineers who are charged with the
maintenance and defense of the Canal.

Living at Colonel Godfrey's headquarters in Corozal, with its roomy
screened porch for a laboratory, and enjoying the cordial cooperation
of the military and civil authorities, we found ideal conditions for our
work. In the time at our disposal we were able to see the greater part
of the Canal Zone, something of the Madden Lake region, where we
camped on the Indio River surrounded by magnificent rain forest,
and parts of the less humid Pacific slope drainage area from the Rio
Jagua and Chepo toward the northeast (toward Colombia) to Venado
Beach and El Valle toward the southwest (toward Costa Rica). We
also visited the Pearl Island Archipelago and the islands of Taboga
and Taboguilla. On the Indio River and Pearl Island trips our camp-
ing at each place was made comfortable and agreeable by Mrs. Miller’s
skillful cooking and her care of our sleeping arrangements.

The general characteristics of this region have already been so
fully dealt with in Smithsonian publications, notably in Goldman’s
report on the mammals (Smithsonian Misc. Coll. vol. 69, no. 6, Apr.
24, 1920) and in Standley’s report on the plants (Contr. U. S. Nat.
Herbarium, vol. 27, 1928) that it does not seem necessary to rede-
scribe them here. I need merely say that the toucans and woodhewers
in the rain forest on the shores of Madden Lake enjoy a yearly rain-
fall of about 7o inches, while the pipits and meadowlarks on the savan-
nahs 30 miles away to the southeast must be content with only about
half as much. With this great difference in water supply, the two
regions present striking contrasts in both flora and fauna, contrasts
whose appreciation is made easy by automobiles and good roads.

Two visits to Barro Colorado Island, with its clearly marked trails
and well equipped laboratory, were especially enjoyable. Dr. Zetek,
the able director, and Dr. Chapman, the island’s most distinguished
guest, easily convinced us that there could be no better place for the

3 27
28 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Fic. 27——Leaving New York. :

Fic. 29.—The farthest point of our journey. A village in the Pearl Islands.
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1937 29

Fic. 31—A tame marmoset at Corozal.

Fic. 32.—Porpoises in the Gulf of Panama.
30 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

study of tropical life. But our commission to obtain birds for skeleton-
izing brought us into conflict with wise restrictions on the use of guns,
and made it necessary for us to go elsewhere for such collecting.

Through the cooperation of Dr. Herbert C. Clark, director of the
Gorgas Memorial Laboratory in Panama City, and the expert boat-
manship and harpoon work of Ernest Stahler of Balboa, C. Z., we
obtained eight specimens of one of the several species of porpoise
that inhabit the Gulf of Panama. Two individuals, adult and immature,
of this animal swimming near the surface of calm water, between
Pedro Gonzales Island and Taboga Island, are shown in the very
unusual photograph contributed by Otis Barton (fig. 32). The
handling and preparing of these bulky specimens were made easy by
the facilities of the Gorgas Laboratory and the unfailingly efficient
cooperation of Dr. Clark and the members of his staff. It was also to
Dr. Clark that we owed the planning of our trip to the Pearl Islands,
on the motor boat operated by R. O. Shuey.

In the small but interesting zoological garden conducted by D. D. H.
March at Old Panama I had an unusual opportunity to observe the
manner in which a tame spider monkey stood and walked in the upright
position. This manner of walking for considerable distances, often
resorted to by some individuals, but less frequently by others, seems to
be peculiar to the spider monkeys among those members of the tribe
that occur in Panama. I, at least, have never seen it except in this one
kind. When walking erect a spider monkey uses its foot in the same
manner as a chimpanzee or a gorilla; that is to say with the great toe
widely separated from the other toes and serving as one of the prongs
of a fork when the heel muscles pull the back part of the foot upward
during the forward step, or when the foot is resting flat on the ground.
The photograph at the right of figure 30 shows how different this is
from the action of the human foot with all its toes working nearly
parallel with each other.

Again I want to record my appreciation of the many opportunities
and facilities for collecting that Colonel Godfrey and Dr. Clark
arranged and for the many comforts and conveniences they provided.
Mr. Wheeler’s untiring enthusiasm and industry combined with his
biological interest and knowledge made his volunteer contribution an
essential part of the success of the trip.

As the result of our work we brought home about 480 mammals,
about 150 each of birds and reptiles, and about 250 plants. In addi-
tion there are a few interesting mammals presented by Dr. Zetek, and
about 50 mammal skulls and skeletal parts presented by Dr. Clark.
On Taboga and Taboguilla we collected numerous samples of the
Indian artifacts that are to be found at the aboriginal village sites.
COLLECTING BIRDS AND MAMMALS IN TENNESSEE

By WATSON M. PERRYGO
Scientific Aid, Division of Mammals, U. S. National Musewm

In continuation of work begun last year in West Virginia, the col-
lection of birds and mammals was undertaken this year in Tennessee
to obtain material lacking in the collections of the National Museum.
We had the cooperation of Howell Buntin, Director, Game and Fish,
Department of Conservation, Nashville, Tenn., who granted the neces-
sary permits, and also of officials everywhere concerned with game
or with the care of National Forests or State Game Preserves.

With Carleton Lingebach as assistant, I left in the early part of
April 1937 to begin the work in the Austroriparian life zone in the
Mississippi River bottoms in the vicinity of Memphis, where we re-
mained for about 2 weeks collecting in the cypress swamps, obtaining
many interesting specimens of birds and mammals. Leaving here, we
went to the northwestern part of the State for work around Reelfoot
Lake, one of the most interesting spots in Tennessee for nature lovers,
nimrods, and anglers, as ducks, fish, and other game abound, as well
as wild creatures in general. This lake was formed in the winter of
1811-12 by a series of earthquakes that caused the low land to sink
over an area approximately 4 miles wide and 14 miles long. During
our successful 2 weeks here we were joined by Dr. Herbert Fried-
mann, curator of birds of the National Museum.

As the spring season was now farther advanced we moved to a
higher area in the densely forested, rolling hills of Wayne County. It
is said that the last wolves taken in the State were killed here a num-
ber of years ago, and, to judge from the many sites we saw along the
creeks, the region evidently was once well populated by Indians.

Continuing north, we stopped during the latter part of May at Cross-
ville on the Cumberland plateau, where we obtained a variety of birds,
although mammals were very scarce. On June I we moved into the
high mountain area of the northeastern part of the State, where we
camped in beautiful, fertile Shady Valley which lies between the
Holston and Iron Mountains at an altitude of 2,900 feet. Dr. Alex-
ander Wetmore joined us here for a few days. In the glade in the
center of the valley we obtained many desirable specimens. Grouse
were very abundant on the mountains, and among the many interest-
ing birds collected was a Swainson’s warbler taken in a miniature bog
on the Holston Mountains.

Through the cooperation of the National Park Service we had per-
mission for work in the Smoky Mountains National Park. On the

31
WwW

No

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Fic. 33.—Falls Creek Falls on the Cumberland Plateau.

Itc. 34—Looking across Shady Valley, Tennessee, with Iron Mountain in the
background. June 7, 10937.
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1937 33

Fic. 35.—Camp in the Cherokee National Forest on Big Frog Mountain.

Fic. 36—Looking east from Roan Mountain, altitude 6,313 feet.
34 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

advice of Mr. Stupka, Park Naturalist, we located near Cosby, where
we remained for the latter half of June collecting in the Canadian
zone on Mount Guyot, the second highest peak in the Park, at an alti-
tude of 6,600 feet, and on the adjoining knobs.

Mount Guyot proved to be most fruitful for Canadian zone birds
and mammals. In the deeply shaded woodlands of this high moun-
tain we heard the beautiful song of the winter wren, and found many
nesting warblers and the olive-sided flycatcher. The Cloudland red
squirrel was scarce, and we were unsuccessful in an attempt to find
the Canadian flying squirrel. Two black bears were seen.

We spent the first half of July in the Cherokee National Forest,
camping at the base of Big Frog Mountain near the southern border
of the State. From here we collected on Big Frog, Little Frog, and
Beans Mountains, obtaining a fair number of specimens. On July 19
we returned to Washington.

I left Washington for the autumn collecting trip on September 9
accompanied by Henry R. Schaefer as assistant. At Bristol we ob-
tained permission from the Forest Ranger to collect on Roan Moun-
tain, which is about 6,300 feet high, located on the North Carolina-
Tennessee border. After about 8 miles of climbing in low gear along
a rough, winding mountain road we reached the top and pitched our
tent on the leeward side. This is said to be one of the coolest spots in
summer in the southeastern United States. Each morning ravens
passed over our camp flying north, and many other unusual birds and
mammals were seen. In spite of the fogs and other adverse weather
conditions we added materially to the collection while in this region.
We obtained one specimen of the northern flying squirrel at an alti-
tude of 5,500 feet 1n the birch woods.

At the end of September we moved for about a week to Clinch
Mountain, where the forest consists of second and third growth pine
and hardwoods, and made a fairly representative collection.

The first week in October we returned to the Mississippi lowlands
at Reelfoot Lake to follow the fall migration in the cotton-growing
districts and the wooded bottomlands. Considering the windy weather,
which handicaps collecting at this season, we obtained good results.
Following this, we spent about a week in the tobacco-growing section
of Clarksville, making collections along the Cumberland River, which
is one of the few rivers flowing north in the United States.

On November 1 we moved to Fayetteville, south of Nashville, col-
lecting in the farming sections of Lincoln and Giles Counties. A
fruitful 10 days here completed our work for the season.
EUS NATION AE GhOGKNPEIC 7 S©Cisi Y—
SME SONIAN: EXPEDITION, TO
EE EA Sa SN DTES

By W. M. MANN
Director, National Zoological Park

On January 19, 1937, the writer, accompanied by Mrs. Mann and
Dr. Maynard Owen Williams, Chief of the Foreign Staff of the
National Geographic Magazine, sailed from Vancouver for the Orient,
to be joined there later by Messers. Roy Jennier and Malcolm Davis,
of the National Zoological Park, and by Layang Gaddi Sang, a zoo-
logical collector from Bangkok, Siam. The expedition was financed
by the National Geographic Society, and its purpose was to collect
living animals, birds, and reptiles to bring back for the National Zoo-
logical Park. Jennier and Davis, who sailed later, brought with them
a small collection of American animals which were turned over to
the zoos in Siantar, Johore, and Batavia.

Early in March the party assembled at Pematang Siantar in Sumatra,
which was our base camp for the following five months. Dr. J. A.
Coenraad, director of the zoo at Siantar, befriended us and helped
us get in touch with native collectors. J. M. Lynkamp, manager of
the Naga Hoeta Tea Estate, allowed us to occupy a temporarily aban-
doned hospital, the Roemah Sakit Pantoean, where we were able to
live in comfort and to care for the animals that almost immediately
started coming in from the natives.

After spending a month establishing relations with these native col-
lectors, Mrs. Mann, Dr. Williams, and the writer journeyed down the
Archipelago as far as Amboina in the Moluccas. Dr. Coenraad accom-
panied the party and made a hurried trip to Sorong, off the coast of
New Guinea, where he remained for g days, while the rest of the
party stayed at Piroe on the island of Ceram. The Moluccas were rich
in gaily colored lories and cockatoos. There were also obtained some
Megapodes, common in the wilds but exceedingly rare in captivity,
as well as several interesting reptiles, among which was the brilliant
and seldom seen amethystine python. The parties met again at Ambon,
Dr. Coenraad having made a collection of birds of paradise, crowned
pigeons, and other New Guinea desirables. They returned to Sumatra
via Macassar, where numerous additional specimens were obtained. In
Java the officials of the Zoo at Batavia presented us with a number
of rare specimens, including gavials from Borneo and tantillus storks.

Shortly after our return to Siantar, our party was joined by Pro-
fessor and Mrs. C. T. Brues, of Harvard University, who came to

35
26 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Fic. 37——A monkey island, peopled with the native monkeys of Japan, a most
attractive exhibit.

i TREAMUME KAA

Za = ——e

e

Fig. 38.—In the Japanese Zoos herds of sea lions are maintained. The commotion
at feeding time is terrific.
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1937 257)

Fic. 39—In Ceram our most important catches were cuscus (to the left) and
Maleo fowl (to the right).

Fic. 40.—Natives of Ceram danced the Chacalele. After the combat, the winner
is seen taking the head of the defeated-—all in fun.
38 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

study the fauna of thermal springs, as well as to make entomological
and botanical collections, and with them we traveled to the West
Coast of Sumatra, visiting the excellent zoo at Fort de Kock.
Through the interest of C. Grootes, Secretary to the Resident and in
charge of the zoo, we obtained a number of good specimens. Later
we went north to the Province of Atjeh, with good success.

Toward the end of our stay Miss Barbara Lawrence, of the Museum
of Comparative Zoology at Harvard, and Congressman B. T. Cas-
tellow, of Georgia, visited our camp to collect and hunt in that district.

Fic. 41—Our bird department in the camp at Siantar. We arrived in
Washington with 115 crates of birds.

On July 17, Mrs. Mann and Messrs. Williams and Mann made a
hurried trip to Bangkok, to secure gibbons and other Siamese species.
The Minister of Agriculture and Fisheries, Phya Jolamark, and Phra
Charan, head of the Pasteur Institute, greatly assisted us in obtain-
ing specimens. The latter presented us with a fine collection of ven-
omous snakes, and we soon gathered considerable other material.

On our return to Singapore, Crown Prince Ismail of Johore con-
tributed a beautiful pair of black leopards, and a Bennett’s cassowary.
In the meantime the Departement Economische Zaken had made an
expedition to Komodo, in which we participated—result, a pair of
Komodo dragons.
39

SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1937

pue Ww
sorjod

24} Jo oO

ye ote (ojeynq Aursid)

M} poule}qo aAQ

‘owOoYy Way} JYsno1q

“TRSSBOR I

UL S1oJJenbpeoy

seoue ossoy[,—eth “dy

“UOJSUIYSE AA 0} WY JOS IM IIOJOG
JO81} 9]qvazIs & 0} SUIY}OU JSOWWe WOT, MAIS Le;{—zh

40 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

We embarked on the MW. V’. Silverash at Singapore. At Belawan
Deli we were joined by Jennier, Davis, and Gaddi, who had brought
the collection to the port on a special railroad train furnished through
the courtesy of A. Baron Van Styrum, of the Deli Railroad. Layang
Gaddi Sang, who had proved himself most efficient in field-work,
accompanied us to Washington. The return voyage took 50 days, with
stops at Colombo, Bombay, Karachi, Port Sudan, and Port Said. At
each port a few specimens were picked up—a pair of gaur at Bombay
(these from Mysore) and some leopards; and from Port Sudan two
pairs of giraffe, a pair of African buffalo, and two shoebills.

of Siantar.

The expedition lasted nearly 9 months, and resulted in a splendid
addition to our collection at the Zoological Park. Our best thanks are
due to the American Diplomatic and Consular Corps for cooperation
and friendship, and to the Departement Economische Zaken, which
gave us necessary permits for collecting and exporting our live stock.

In addition to living animals, small collections of mammals, birds,
fishes, and invertebrates were made for the United States National
Museum. Some of these will be reported on at a later time. A few
losses were suffered on the home journey, but in general we had
excellent luck. The collection as listed after arrival consisted of 46
species of mammals, 93 of birds, and 34 of reptiles and batrachians.

By
EXPLORING SIAM

By H. G. DEIGNAN
Division of Birds, U. S. National Museum

In January 1937 a collecting expedition for the National Museum
was made to Doi Pha Hom Pok, a mountain over 8,000 feet high
lying partly in the Shan State of Mu’ang Hang and partly in the
Siamese district of Fang. The name, which means Mountain of the
Blanket, refers to the bank of cloud which usually lies on its slopes. It
proved to be impossible to ascend the mountain without a guide, and,
as no one could be found who knew the trail, camp was made at a
small village in the foothills, on the banks of the Me Mao, a brawling
mountain torrent. Valuable general collections were made in this
neighborhood, which had never previously been investigated. From
this place, travel was continued to Chiengsen Kao, a ruined city on
the bank of the great Me Khong, by way of an unfrequented path
which skirts the northern boundary of Siam. The Chiengsen district
is famous for the vast numbers of ducks and other waterfowl occur-
ring there during the cold season, and we succeeded in collecting nu-
merous birds of this type, many of them new either to the Kingdom
or to the northern provinces.

February was spent in the southwestern portion of North Siam,
collections being made in the hilly country on the Siamese bank of
the Salwin. This district was only separated by the river from the
Burmese territory of Karenni, and the White Karens (in reference to
the color of their garments, in contradistinction to the Red Karens)
proved to be the dominant people of the area. The fauna appeared
to be typical of the Himalayo-Burmese mountain chain, which con-
tinues on to Tenasserim, but none of the peculiar forms of Karenni
was found, the great gorge of the Salwin seeming to act as an effec-
tive barrier even to the birds.

In March Doi Chiengdao, a great massif of metamorphosed lime-
stone more than 7,000 feet high, was re-visited; its summit has been
reached by only six Europeans. Camp was made at 4,500 feet, near
the highest spring, at this season all but dry, and a miserable week
was spent here, tormented by insects and endangered by forest-fires,
which were devastating the stands of pine. The summit of the south-
west pinnacle, exactly 7,000 feet above sea-level, was reached; there

AI
42 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Fic. 45.—Doi Chiengdao towers 6,500 feet above the rice-fields. Here it is
seen at a distance of 10 miles.

Fic. 46.—Jagged rock walls rise out of the jungle west of the mountain-mass.
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1937 43

Fic. 47.—At the summit of Doi Chiengdao grow many endemic species of
plants. The palm (Chamaerops sp.) occurs with such northern genera as
Primula and Gentiana.

Fic. 48.—A knoll shaded by Khasya pines and overlooking a cluster of
Mussé houses afforded a pleasant camping ground. Titmice fed in the pines
with minivets.

4
» 44 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

was no path, and much of the ascent consisted in scaling hazardous
precipices of crumbling rock. In spite of the lack of water and the
sun-dried vegetation, fresh signs of a bear were discovered at the
top, and the remains of a Petaurista, recently killed (perhaps by a
leopard) were found. Birds, mollusks, and insects were collected.
During the descent, the dry grass below us was set afire, presumably
by a wandering party of hill-men, and we managed to return safely
to camp only by going down a difficult cliff, which permitted us to
reach an area where the fire had burned itself out. Return to the
plains was made by a new route, along a ridge parallel to the southern
face of the mountain, offering indescribably magnificent views of the
precipices, which are among the highest and sheerest in the world.
The day was enlivened by the sight of bear, sambhur, goral, and serow,
as well as great flocks of Cerasophila thompsoni, one of the rarest of
Oriental birds.

April was spent in the southern portions of Nan province, the center
and north of which had been visited during 1936. The route lay
wholly in the lowlands, and, with the increasing drought, travel became
almost intolerably difficult; all minor streams were quite dry and
water-holes were as much as 40 kilometers apart. The forest, largely
hot-weather deciduous, was by now leafless, offering no respite from
the sun during the hottest month of the year. It was with relief that
we finally reached the river Nan at Pak Li. From this point it was
determined to carry on by boat as far as Utaradit and the railway,
making camp at nightfall on the sandbars. Game was plentiful on
the banks, including peafowl, deer, and swine, and parties of otters
were often seen at play in the shallows.

At the end of April, work in North Siam was terminated, and a
change was made to the extreme southeast of Siam, the provinces of
Chantabun and Trat (Krat). A fortnight was spent at Khao Sa-bap,
a somewhat isolated mountain, where a number of remarkable birds
have been discovered in recent years. Here, in the most humid part
of Siam, where rain falls throughout the year, we found a great con-
trast to the arid districts of Nan, and field-work was decidedly handi-
capped by the weather. Later a removal was made to the sea-coast
near Chantabun, where the salt-marshes, at low tide, offered a great
variety of waders and other water-birds, including the very rare
Asiatic finfoot and the Malayan ring-plover, a bird not hitherto known
from any locality outside the Malaysian subregion. The final week of
work in Siam was spent on the large island of Ko Chang, where
numerous interesting invertebrates were collected.
ew hE MOOSE AND TAREE OU TIN VAIEASICA

By WILLIAM N. BEACH
New York City

Several times during the past few years Dr. Wetmore had spoken
to me about getting a new moose group and specimens of stone caribou
for the Smithsonian Institution. As I wished to get the finest possible
specimens of the Alaskan moose, | felt that it would be necessary to
arrange an expedition to go down the north side of the Alaskan Range
beyond Mount McKinley, a region known as the Rainy Pass section
of the Range. From several trips | had made to this country I was
under the impression that the moose there were larger and finer speci-
mens than in any other part of Alaska, even including the Kenai
Peninsula.

From the experience gained on four previous expeditions to this
country I realized that a successful trip would require careful plan-
ning. After several conferences with Dr. Wetmore it was decided that
the expedition should be made in the fall of 1937, and a friend, J. Wat-
son Webb, agreed to join me. Harry Boyden, a former guide, was to
accompany the expedition, and Mrs. Webb and her two sons, Watson
Webb, Jr., and Harry Webb, were to start about 3 weeks ahead of us
and proceed to the Rainy Pass country. Their trip was to be largely
photographic and exploring. In order to handle these two expeditions
we decided it would be necessary to have 30 horses for saddle and
pack purposes. The general list of equipment and supplies was made
up, and guides were obtained. This particular section of Alaska was
chosen on account of the huge quantities of game that I had seen there
on my previous trips. It is most inaccessible and difficult to reach and
can only be entered by an outfit of one’s own.

Boyden left for Alaska in June with the horses, and went directly
through to McKinley Park Station on the Alaska Railroad, and from
there through the Park over the-road to Wonder Lake, which is the
terminal of the Park Highway. Mrs. Webb and her two sons arrived
at Wonder Lake via plane from Anchorage about 3 weeks ahead of
Mr. Webb and myself, and departed down the Range at once. This
party had Carl Anderson as head guide.

Watson Webb and I arrived at McKinley Park Station, over the
Alaska Railroad, on the evening of August 13, specially conducted by

45
40 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Fic. 49.—Mount McKinley from the head of the Muddy. (Photograph by
J. Watson Webb. )

Fic. 50.—At one of the camps.
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1937 47

Fic. 51—The Alaska Range along the Tonzona.

(Photograph by J. Watson Webb.)

Ps)
mi
a

on
1s)
Q
et
jo)
wn
MAG
=}

OQ
jo)
iS)
®
fo)
Es
aK
So
(or)
et)
=}

ca
ae
a
oO
et
a
48 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Colonel Ohlson on his speeder. We had with us W. L. Brown, Smith-
sonian taxidermist, who was to take care of the various specimens ob-
tained by the expedition, and Jack Lean, an Alaskan guide, who had
been on several former expeditions with me. That night we stopped
at the Savage River camp of the McKinley National Park Transpor-
tation Company. The next morning we registered at the Park Super-
intendant’s office and received permits for transportation of the vari-
ous specimens through the Park on our return. We then drove to the
end of the motor road and finally contacted Harry Boyden and the
outfit, camped on the bar of the McKinley River about 2 miles east
of Shannon’s Cache.

The lack of game going through the Park was most marked. In
1922 and 1925, when [| had been there before, sheep were seen on all
sides, great bands grazing at the head of Savage, Sanctuary, Teklanika,
and Igloo, and in Sable Pass and Polychrome Pass they could be seen
in untold numbers. In 1922 I actually counted over 500 sheep in one
band on the north side of Polychrome Pass, and on the same day 122
in a band on Sable Pass. At the head of the Toklat, a ram pasture,
there were bunches of rams everywhere. This condition existed to a
greater or less extent the entire length of the Range to Rainy Pass.
On our trip through the Park this year we saw 19 sheep.

That afternoon we busied ourselves getting packs balanced and put-
ting the finishing touches on the outfit. August 15 was a day of hustle,
with the many contributing delays that one encounters on the first day
in getting an outfit under way. We finally were on our way at I1: 40
a.m., and traveling across the McKinley River, made directly up to
the high gravel ridge that lies along the greater part of the McKinley
Range. We were bothered with shifting packs most of the day, but
beyond this we had no unpleasant experiences and made our first camp
at the head of Muddy River at 5: 40 p. m. at the exact spot where I
had camped in 1922. Watson Webb, who had heard me many times
rave about this great game preserve, was inclined, I am afraid, to ques-
tion my veracity, and I was beginning to wonder if it had all been a
dream on those previous trips. The evidences of many kills of caribou
by the wolves along our line of travel was sufficient to explain the
great falling off in the caribou and sheep population.

From the Muddy we made the head of Birch the next day, and then
for 3 days we were held there by severe rain. Our next camp was
between the first and middle forks of the Foraker River, and here
again we were delayed for 2 days by hard rain. We next camped in
the Cottonwoods on a branch of the Herron River. On August 24 we
crossed the western boundary of McKinley National Park, and com-
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1937 49

Fie. 53.—Mount Foraker in the clouds.

Fic. 54.—The bull for the moose group.
50 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

ing down a gradual slope dropped onto the bar of the Chedotlothna
River. The rain and warm weather had caused the glaciers to work
overtime, so Our river crossings gave us more or less trouble. We
camped on the west bank of the Chedotlothna some 3 miles down
stream.

As we were making camp Jack Lean located two fine large bull
moose, and the next morning we secured both of them. The larger
one had a fine heavy set of horns, with a spread of 65 inches, and it is
to be the center of the new group. The other was also a heavy, well-
balanced head of 62-inch spread, and is to go to the Alaska Museum
in Juneau. Mr. Brown was left with one of the men to complete the
preparation of the animals after the entire outfit had helped on the
preliminary work for a day and a half.

The balance of the party proceeded to the Tonzona River. The
horse wrangler returned the second day after our arrival at the Ton-
zona and brought Brown and Charlie back to our camp. We remained
on the Tonzona for the balance of the trip, and from there we got five
caribou and sheep, and a cow moose for the Smithsonian. We still
lacked a calf and a small bull. Every day we would see large bulls
and cows, but the cows had no calves with them. The cow we secured
had recently had a calf, as her udder was full of milk, but the wolves
had undoubtedly done away with it.

The specimens were all packed to Tonzona Lake, where we had
built a cache. Mr. Brown and Jack Lean were left with the specimens,
and on September 14 they were flown out to Anchorage with a load
of specimens, the rest of the collection going out the next day. But
for the plane, | doubt if we would have been able to get all the speci-
mens out before snow, and then we would have had to send in dog
teams to haul them.

It became apparent that we would not be able to get the calf and
small bull moose to complete the group in the Rainy Pass section. We
therefore arranged with Jack Lean to go to the Kenai and obtain these
specimens there. Specimens of plants and bushes were taken by Mr.
Brown to be used in the moose group.
GREENLAND EXPEDITION OF 1937

By CAPT. ROBERT A. BARTLEDT
New York City

In continuation of investigations that I have been carrying on for
several years in the Arctic regions for the Smithsonian and other
institutions, I visited the west coast of Greenland during the past
summer. One of the main objectives of our trip was to get walrus
pups for the Chicago Zoological Society. As part of our collecting
outht, we took along what was for us a brand new type of gear—an
otter trawl, suggested by Dr. Waldo L. Schmitt, of the U. S. National
Museum, and bought for us by Bassett Jones, of Nantucket and New
York. The use of this apparatus opened up a whole new vista of
Arctic marine life to our astonished eyes.

Our crew was pretty much the same as last year, with Brother Will
Bartlett going again as mate. The lads that went along and helped me
finance the trip were Buck Morris, Plymouth Meeting, Pa. ; Francis C.
Grant, Chestnut Hill, Pa.; Warner Kent, Scarsdale, N. Y.; and David
C. Nutt, Cleveland, Ohio, all of whom had been with me the previous
year, besides David Munsell, Garrison, Md.; Bob Graff and Stuart
Miller, Scarsdale, N. Y.; Howard McCall, Wynnewood, Pa.; Bob
Wurtz, Short Hills, N. J.; Gerry Redmond, Locust Valley, Long
Island; and Bross Lloyd, Lee, Mass. The boys all stood regular sea
watches, helped to handle the schooner, and tackled any job that they
were called upon to do without complaint. They were at all times
attentive and efficient. One could not wish for a better crew.

Clifton Foss was the radio operator on board, while back in Brook-
lyn his young and capable wife kept the home fires burning, all mes-
sages being relayed through her. She is as good an operator as her
husband and kept our relatives and friends well informed of our
doings.

Dr. Schmitt saw to it that we were sent a proper outfit from the
National Museum: chests of bottles, a bottom sampler, tow nets, and
sundry necessary equipment. Our surgeon, Dr. Richard Knight, of
the Presbyterian Hospital, New York, was in general charge of the
collecting of specimens of all kinds. David Nutt, Warner Kent, Bross
Lloyd, and Stuart Miller assisted him from time to time.

After leaving City Island, New York, on June 22, we stopped in
Nantucket, where Bassett Jones came aboard the Morrissey for a

51
52 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Fic. 55.—The Morrissey and an iceberg, Melville Bay, Greenland.

Fic. 36.—Another large berg, Melville Bay, northwest Greenland.
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1937 53

Fic. 58—Dr. Knight giving a lesson in marine biology to Bob Wurtz, Dave
Munsell, and Gerry Redmond.
54 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

day to instruct us in the use of the trawl. On the fishing grounds out-
side Nantucket we lowered it twice and fished for an hour. The first
time we hauled we did not have much, but the next time we had several
barrels of fish, all edible. This experience gave us just the line we
wanted on the new gear, as we did not want to leave without knowing
how to handle it up north. We hoped to get fish in the far north, and
although we did not get many, we made a grand showing with all the
other forms of marine life.

From Nantucket we headed for Brigus, and from there proceeded
up the coast to Labrador, where there are many fine harbors. In one
of them we put over a hard northeast gale and a very heavy sea.

Our first port of call in Greenland was Godhavn, to report my
presence in those waters to Governor Rosendahl, and also to land
Dr. Erling Porsild, botanist, of Ottawa, Canada. His parents, Dr.
and Mrs. Morton Porsild, reside at Godhavn, where his father is in
charge of the Biological Station. I stayed about two hours, long
enough to fill the tanks with fresh water. Captain Eigil Rus Carsten-
sen, R. D. N., Hydrographer and Commander of the new Danish
Coast Survey steamer Hajmdal, Dr. Morton Porsild, Chief Radio
Operator Miller of the radio station at Godhavn, and Pastor Rosen
came on board. We had a grand visit from Governor Rosendahl,
as well.

We went on to the Peary Monument at Cape York and were ex-
tremely fortunate in finding Melville Bay free of ice. At first I in-
tended to stop at Ootah’s village, about 6 miles east of the monument,
but it was fortunate for four Eskimos of the Cape York village that
I changed my mind. As we neared the Cape, a nasty squall of wind
struck us. At that moment I saw the four natives on a piece of ice
with four kayaks and a dead walrus. The sea was breaking over the
ice and wetting them. It would soon have gone to pieces. We got
them just in the nick of time, yet some people say there is no such
thing as luck.

We went around and anchored in the cove on the north side of the
Cape. The glacier had changed a lot since we built the monument. The
fall of the glacier would make the hauling up of supplies much more
difficult now. The wind blew a gale on the top of the mountain, and a
dense white fog made it impossible to take pictures. Most of the lads
climbed to the top of the monument. David Nutt and Bob, the second
engineer, obtained specimens of red snow, as well as algae and other
forms of life in the lakes, pools, and rivers near by.

Farther on, at Northumberland and Hakluyt Island, we stopped for
birds, flowers, and other shore collecting. From Hakluyt Island to
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1937 55

Fic. 590.—There are two walrus pups in the tank. One is hiding. They were
very happy.

oa

eS
ay

~ f a es eae OS i ad

Fic. 60.—Bob Graff and Howard McCall talking to the Eskimo girls of Cape
York, Greenland.
56 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Cape Alexander we tried using the trawl, but found the water too deep
for the rope we had. We therefore went closer inshore between Cape
Chalon and Cape Alexander. Ice prevented us from using the trawl
in Kane Basin, as I had hoped, but we did use it in Smith Sound, where
we also got in some hauls with the iron dredge and plankton net.

The farther north we went, the finer the weather became. We
reached latitude 78° 45’ at a point in Smith Sound midway between
Cape Sabine, Ellesmere Land, and Greenland. We saw numerous
schools of narwhal swimming in the open water close to the edge of
the very heavy Arctic ice. It was here that we got the two walrus pups
which we had come so far to seek. A few birds were taken on
McGarry-Littleton Island and around Pandora Harbor.

The ice lay close to the Canadian shore, almost to the Cary Islands,
and thence to the mouth of Jones Sound. We had a delightful trip
almost to the bottom of Olrick’s Bay. As we sailed out of Olrick’s
Bay at 2 a. m., the sun on the opposite shore skimmed the tops of the
mountains and ice caps, producing most strange and beautiful color
effects of russets and browns. Here and there patches of yellow moss
looked for all the world like bunches of peaches on trees at home.
On the silver surface of the fiord we could see mirrored ice-capped
mountains, hills, glaciers, streams, valleys, and plains. Several bergs
floating in the fiord sparkled and shimmered in the light of the sun
to the north as it dipped behind the mountains opposite. I shall never
forget that night as we steamed out of the fiord right against its
eastern gate where the great sun lay robed in vivid flames and amber
light.

On our return to Godhavn, I was delighted to learn that His Excel-
lency, Daugaard Jensen, Administrator of all Greenland, would arrive
in a few hours on the Disco. The next morning I went on board right
after breakfast and we had a pleasant visit.

The Disco left after the dinner, and so did we. We had a quick
and smooth run to Labrador and thence to Brigus, where we stayed
a day. Another quick and smooth run brought us to New York, where
our two walrus pups were handed over in good shape to Bob Bean,
Assistant Director of the Chicago Zoological Society of Brookfield,
Illinois. I also gave him the polar bear cub which we captured in
Davis Straits midway between Greenland and Baffin Land.

Saturday, September 18, saw the Morrissey laid up at her old berth,
McWilliams Shipyard, West Brighton, Staten Island, thus bringing
to an end one of the best trips I ever had in her.
Ree SME SONTIAN-HARTEHORD EXPEDITION DO THE
WEST INDIES, 1937

137 WO MLIDIO) IEg” Sle bMO ear at

Curator, Division of Marine Invertebrates, U. S. National Museum

Not since the early days of the Museum has one of its expeditions
gone to sea in an old-fashioned full-rigged ship, the kind you read
about in sea-tales laid in the days of wooden ships and iron men. Just
such a ship was the Joseph Conrad, which George Huntington Hart-
ford III, of New York, recently acquired and refitted for a voyage
of exploration and scientific investigation to the West Indies under
the auspices of the Smithsonian Institution. One can well imagine
with what feelings of anticipation I looked forward to this expedition.
The realization did not fall short of them. Our interesting experi-
ences and the good friends who helped us were so numerous that I
hope I shall be forgiven for mentioning only a very few of them.

The expedition covered more than 4,500 miles at sea and stopped
one or more times for the purpose of collecting at 15 different islands:
Bahamas, Andros, and San Salvador or Watling Island; West Indies,
Momnuea. taitt, Puerto Rico, St. Lhomas, St: John, St. Croix, Saba,
St. Eustatia, Dominica, Martinique, Barbados, Jamaica, and Cuba.

The largest animals we collected were porpoises, the smallest pro-
tozoa, chiefly the tiny calcareous shelled kinds known as foraminifera.

Porpoises are among the rarest things in museums. We wanted
as many different kinds as we could get, but we saw them more often
than we were able to catch them. We were fortunate, however, in the
harbor of San Juan, where, from the ship’s launch, with “ Jack”’
Hawkins as harpooner, we got our first porpoise, a Tursiops truncata,
not uncommon along our eastern seaboard, yet taken here as a first
record for Puerto Rican waters.

Our second porpoise, taken some 50 miles off the coast of Georgia,
was a gravid female of Prodelphinus plagiodon, of which the National
Museum possesses only one other specimen taken more than half a
century ago. The embryo she carried was one of the few ever to
come to the Institution, a beautiful mouse-colored specimen not quite
3 feet long, with whiskers on its “lip.”

Foraminifera are more easily taken than porpoises. A grab of
bottom mud or sand may yield thousands. In between these extremes

57
58 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

nase 2 pees Sal ! ee — = ait s E ate Se

Fic. 61.—Fair wind, fair weather. The Joseph Conrad under full sail, May, 1037.

Fic. 62.—The ship’s company. Eight are missing from the picture. Seated on
the extreme right next to Captain Troonin is DuBose Heyward; directly behind
him is Bob Lunz, to whose right stands Mr. Hartford, owner, and sponsor of the
expedition.
a

SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1937 59

Fic. 63.—Native Haitian homestead, on the road to Christophe’s Citadel ; mother
with her three children. Puzzle: find the third child.

Fic. 64——At Picheline, Grand Bay, Dominica, the auto in which we crossed
the island ran out of gas. Naturally a crowd collected, and here are some of the
more youthful of the bystanders.

5
60 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

of size we got a host of other things—shrimps, crabs, and lobsters,
corals, shells, and sponges, worms, fish, and algae. Several “ brittle ”
starfish have already been recognized as new species from among those
that we brought back, as well as a single specimen of a rare and prob-
ably unique form of amphipod, and an unusual crab that “ talks ”’ or
stridulates. From time to time we shall be reporting on other portions
of our biological treasure trove.

On the morning of March 21 we raised the dim outline of the Isle
of Tortuga on the eastern horizon. It was here, in the month of
December, 1670, that Henry Morgan assembled several thousand free-
booters and thirty-odd sail, and set out to accomplish the sack of old
Panama, of which there now remain only a few scattered ruins. We
stopped for a day’s collecting on the sheltering reefs of the Tierra
Baja Road, where that famous, or rather infamous fleet was assembled.

Collecting one day on the immense barrier reef nearly 2 miles long
which makes the harbor of Christiansted, St. Croix, a safe anchorage,
I witnessed a curious sight. A lot of big dark green parrot fish were
browsing on algae on the flat of the reef at low tide, their backs half
out of water, like so many rooting pigs. When I suddenly came upon
them, just like a startled drove of pigs they scuttled away to the deep
water seaward, splashing, leaping, and, I almost want to say, squealing,
so great was the general commotion until the last one was out of sight
over the edge of the reef.

Equally interesting was a hunt for the spiny lobster, Jangosta, at
night by torchlight. I was initiated into this sport in Puerto Rico
by Lt. J. M. Cabanillas, U. S. N., in charge of the Naval Radio
Station at San Juan. He uses an electric light strapped to his fore-
head with a brace of batteries high up on his shoulders. As he catches
these lobsters or crayfish by hand, he wears stout gloves as a protec-
tion against the fearsome spiny armature of these sizable crustaceans.
We had the good fortune to obtain several specimens of Panulirus
guttatus, reported in the West Indies from Cuba, Guadaloupe, and
Martinique but, so far as | am aware, never before from Puerto Rico.

Haiti, where we visited Christophe’s famous citadel, La Ferriere,
and Martinique are intriguing places. In both islands the current
language is a French patois peculiar to their black inhabitants. In
Martinique we went over from Fort de France, where the Conrad
anchored, to see Mount Pelée, the volcano that in 1902 destroyed more
lives than any other since Vesuvius at Pompeii. At the foot of the
mountain along the seashore to the southwest lies what was left of
the old St. Pierre. It is slowly rebuilding since the disaster of 35 years
i=
Xe)

SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1937

‘OZQI puke PORT

UseMjoq savoA QI JO yred J9}}0q 94} potdndd0 UOTJONIJsSUOD S}] “pole SBM Jope}ID oY} YOIYM YIM uUOoUUeD JO eee iputty aH
yO Mo} & Ysnl SssaiqZ1O0J oY} JO 9pIS UtoJsed 9Y} UO GUO] Joay OZ7 AdOT[eS BP UMOP SuUTYyJoI}s Atayyeq eB JO UNS jsdly  :4s9SUT

“ABM SOIIU OZ JSBODKIS JY} WOTJ IIISIA SI JaPeUD oy} AYP Iesjo Be UG ‘SeTIUI OL JO snipes & UIYIIM Ule}UNOW JoYSIYy

OU SE doy], “punosze sap TOF ATZUNOD 9Y} SozeUTLUOp Jape oy} ‘(WeP_ s,doystq 9y}) anboag] ke JouUog Ysty-}OOJ-000'E 9y}

‘ ‘

yo yeod ATA oy} punosre YING ‘Wey, jo tossdwy ‘oydojstayy) Jo Jopeyy oy} ‘atoliioy eT] ye 4sNOd Jeors oY [—'Sg “DIY

62 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

ago and is now a city of about 10,000. Here we renewed our acquain-
tance with Dr. Frank A. Perret, Director of the Martinique Volcano
Museum, whom we had met in Fort de France.

It was a coincidence that the first person to greet me on my return
to the Museum after the conclusion of this expedition was J. V.
McKeon, of the Museum’s mechanical force, who was in St. Pierre
the very day after Pelée had broken loose and wiped out the city and
its 28,000 inhabitants almost without warning in the space of a very
few minutes. A photograph of the city of St. Pierre taken the day
after the holocaust and here reproduced was kindly lent to me by Mr.
McKeon.

I have to thank Commander R. M. Wynne, R. N., the harbormaster
at Bridgetown, Barbados, for a very unusual and interesting experi-
ence. Barbados is capped, for the greater part, by a coral rock forma-
tion and in part by a deposit of radiolarian, or infusorial earth deposit,
indicative of an ancient and profound submergence beneath the sea.
Down at the base of this limestone cap are underground water courses
from which are pumped up the greater part of the water supply of
the island. One of the largest of the wells tapping this supply is at
the Bowmanston pumping station. At the bottom of it the superin-
tendent of the station had been kind enough to place one of my baited
copper “‘ roach” traps, in the hope that we might discover some sub-
terranean crustacea. Some hours later we ourselves descended to re-
cover the trap from the stream at the bottom of this deep hole, 260
feet below the surface.

We were let down in a bucket on a steel cable, I sitting on the
bucket rim with my feet inside. To get to the trap at the bottom, we
had to wade chest deep in water. Retrieving it and following the water
course in the opposite direction, we passed through a tunnel so low
and full of water that our noses were all but submerged. On the other
side of this arch or tunnel was an underground river coursing through
a cleft or narrow, irregular-walled canyon in the rock that in places
may have been 50 to 75 feet high. The stream, where we stood in it,
was 4 to 6 feet wide. | thought that this was about all there was to
see, but soon learned otherwise. Using a crazy old craft that one of
our guides pulled up from the bottom of the “ river” and bailed out,
we went on for three or four hundred yards in stygian darkness which
was only intensified by the flickering torch I held until we came to a
waterfall fenced by a man-made wall, through a gap in the top of
which, 24 to 3 feet wide, a foot-thick stream of water poured over in
a noisy cascade. It dropped down 15 or 20 feet ; that is why we had to
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1937 63

Fic. 66.—St. Pierre, Martinique, as it appeared on May 9, 1902, the day after
the disastrous eruption of Mt. Pelée, in which more than 25,000 people lost their
lives in a space of less than 3 minutes. (Photograph courtesy of J. V. McKeon. )

Fic. 67.—Pelée in May, 1937, from the ruins of the old prison of St. Pierre.
In a little round thick-walled stone dungeon, similar to the one of which the
door is visible in the near right foreground, a condemned criminal survived the
deadly blast from the volcano that destroyed every other living thing in that
ill-fated city 35 years ago.
64. SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

have the boat, as it must have been nearly that deep under us. We got
out on the wall for a few moments, for this was the end of our journey
in this craft, although one can go on for miles under the island, I
was told.

Returning to the surface was more of an ordeal than going down,
because it was my turn to stand on the edge of the bucket and lay hold
of the cable. After we had taken our places, one of the guides blew a
whistle, the signal to haul away, but nothing happened. We waited a
while a little uneasily, and he blew again. This happened still another
time before the cable finally tautened and we were on our way up.
My rubber-soled shoes were wet and I thought perhaps too slippery
for me to be standing on the thin, curved rim of a metal bucket, but
slowly and inexorably we were being lifted up higher and higher. I
rather hated to look up at the tiny spot of light that marked the hole
through which we had to disappear to regain our freedom. I do not
care to describe my feelings. Although in reverse, they were very
much like the feeling you might get standing out on the edge of a
frail scaffolding at the top of the highest skyscraper you could imagine.
It was a relief to let go of that trembling cable and step off that slick
bucket edge, so much so, in fact, that I forgot the object of my visit
to the nether regions and had to be reminded of it. Except for the
bait placed in it that morning, the roach trap was empty!

My assistant naturalist for the trip was G. Robert Lunz, of the
Charleston Museum, while our ever-willing helpers in all phases of our
work were the whole crew of the Joseph Conrad, from Captain
Troonin down to the mess boy. A most pleasant shipmate, valued
friend and counsellor throughout was DuBose Heyward, of “ Porgy
and Bess.” Above all, however, my personal thanks and appreciation
and those of the Smithsonian Institution go to Mr. Hartford, who
made possible this scientifically most profitable expedition that has
enriched the natural history collections of the United States National
Museum many fold.
SMITHSONIAN-ROEBLING EXPEDITION TO CUBA

By PAUL BARTSCH
Curator, Division of Mollusks, U. S. National Museum

In November 1936 Donald Roebling offered to the Smithsonian
Institution the use of his newly built yacht, the Jorano, for explora-
tion in West Indian waters. The matter was turned over to the writer,
who, after visiting Mr. Roebling in December, reported favorably on
the project. The Jorano, with a length of 70 feet, a beam of 14 feet,
a draft of 3 feet 9 inches, and a displacement of 29 tons, made an
ideal vessel for shallow marine collecting. Mr. Roebling had made
the necessary installation of a small winch and hoisting gear and
pump for such work, as well as dredging frames.

The expedition put to sea on April 1, 1937, from the home port of
the Jorano, Clearwater, Fla. After a stop at Key West and Havana,
we cruised along the north coast of Cuba where our first collecting
was done on April 5 in Bahia Honda Harbor. Here, by means of
outboard-motor-propelled skiffs, we explored the shallow waters of
the region for marine organisms, as well as the immediate shores for
land mollusks. After dark we used a submarine light, which attracted
considerable life to it and enabled us to make a catch of many marine
erganisms, ranging from protozoa to fish.

On April 6 we anchored off Buena Vista Light and here again we
used the submarine light with considerable success. The next day we
rounded the western end of Cuba and came to anchor in Bahia Cor-
rientes. In this half-moon-shaped bay the water shelves abruptly to
considerable depth, and a strong current sweeps the region. We
stopped at several stations in this bay, where we worked until the
morning of April ro. A number of dredge hauls were made at various
depths, in part on rather difficult bottom, which yielded a good series
of specimens.

The most interesting phase of our work in this region, however,
came from the use of the submarine light after dark. This apparatus,
when used where life is abundant, always yields ample, exciting, and
fascinating results. The submarine light consists merely of a water-
tight glass jacket surrounding an incandescent bulb in a water-tight
socket attached to a water-tight submarine electric cord. Lowering
this to the bottom and moving it about a bit will attract myriads of
creatures to it. Slowly raising the light to the surface one finds a
cloud of microscopic plankton organisms, lending a milky aspect to

65
SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

eerie

Fic. 68.—The Jorano.

’

g

SS —~«

Fic. 69.—Sifting the dredgings.
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1937 67

Fic. 70.—Lantern Fish: Top figure, Myctophuim affine; middle figure, Diaphus
garmani; lower figure, Diaphus dumerili.

Fic. 71.—Stomatopod larva.
68 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

the water immediately surrounding the glass, while through and be-
yond this fine life, larger organisms pursue their diverse prey. The
whole as a rule assumes a spinning motion, a veritable wheel of life.

Here we captured lantern fish, forms usually found at a depth
beyond the penetration of light. Lifting the first of these to the sur-
face with a dip net produced exclamations of surprise, for the fish
flashed its lamps of blue-green quality like the sparkling of a firefly,
the flashes being emitted from the many bioluminescent organs with
which they are provided. These lantern fish in turn were pursued
by larger fish which occasionally “ beat us to it.” Of these lantern
fish three species belonging to two genera were obtained in quantity,
namely, Diaphus garmani, 119 specimens, Diaphus dumerili, 51 speci-
mens, and Myctophum affine, 3 specimens. Among other interesting
fish, we caught a large number of Leptocephali, larval eels.

We also filled a gallon jar with the larva of a stomatopod crustacean,
a flat glasslike creature of curious fantastic shape. These were so
abundant that each swish of the net would bring a mass on board and
their glasslike skeletons were scattered all over the ship. Then, too,
there appeared swarms of a small medusa having a squarish outline
with four long streaming tentacles. They probably belong to the genus
Carybdea.

Leaving Bahia Corrientes we turned to the south coast of the island
where we examined the Cayos San Felipe and Cayos de los Indios,
as well as the shallow flat surrounding them. This is the famous spong-
ing ground of Cuba. Here we made a number of dredge hauls with
varying results and then headed on April 11 for Siguanea Bay at the
western end of the Isle of Pines. In this bay we again plied our dredge,
and we also paid a visit to the Sierra Canadas, which I had failed to
explore on a former occasion.

We next rounded the northern coast of the Isle of Pines and came
to anchor April 12 at its capital, Nueva Gerona, where we remained
until April 15, visiting the parts of the Sierra Casas and the south side
of the Sierra Caballos not previously explored. We then left for
Batabano, making a number of hauls in the shallow water between
these places and obtaining a marvelous lot of material.

After making our first shipment from this port we sailed eastward,
but serious engine trouble caused us to forego further dredging and
head for the Naval Station at Guantanamo Bay to undergo repairs.
In Guantanamo Bay, tide-pool poisoning was engaged in at Wind-
mill Beach, which yielded a series of interesting and brilliantly colored
fish, among them an Antennarius, probably princeps. At this port it
was deemed advisable to terminate the work for the present.
HEREDITY EXPERIMENTS IN VIRGINIA AND
WES Vix GUNITA

[Sse JEVANUNL, IVR Slat
Curator, Division of Mollusks, U. S. National Musewm

In 1912 I began a series of breeding experiments under the joint
auspices of the Smithsonian and Carnegie Institutions. I selected for
my subjects land mollusks of the genus Cerion, which I transplanted
to the Florida keys from the Bahamas and the West Indies. These
experiments have given very interesting results. They show that envi-
ronment, as far as Cerions are concerned, produces no appreciable
changes in the offspring if the animals are able to exist under the
changed conditions. In instances in which the changed environment
was adverse, it produced a lethal effect and the colony in question
passed out. Hybridization, on the other hand, produced de Vriesan
mutations, and these mutations, through segregation, appear to pro-
duce fixation, which we hope will eventually result in speciation,
the establishment of new species.

To have a check on the Cerion breeding experiments in order to
determine whether the results obtained thereby are of broader bio-
logical application or merely phenomena peculiar to the genus Cerion,
I have selected Goniobasis virginica, a fresh-water mollusk of the mid-
Atlantic drainage, as check subjects. This work was begun 2 years
ago, but the Potomac floods buried the cages which were placed on
the bottom, and thus vitiated the tests. It is for this reason that a
new set of experiments was started this year, in which the concrete
bottom of the cages was replaced by a cypress floor covered with a
thin layer of cement. The three cages used in each set of experiments
were gathered in a cypress frame and suspended some 18 inches below
the surface of the water by means of two metal drums.

These cages have a yard-square bottom and a height of 18 inches.
The sides are made of monel metal screening, 20 mesh to the inch,
and the top is of the same screening, 10 mesh to the inch. Three sets
of three cages each are being used. One of these is placed in the spill-
way below the hydro-electric plant at Millville, W. Va., another in
the Roaches Run Bird Sanctuary, and the third set is placed at the
pontoon bridge at Fort Belvoir, Va.

The material used for the experiment consisted of young specimens
of the year. One set was gathered above the fall line in Occoquan
Creek ; another at Dawsons Beach in the Potomac, south of the mouth
of Occoquan Creek ; and the third was taken from the Chesapeake and

69
7O SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Itc. 72.—One of the cages used in these experiments.

Fic. 73—Showing the two floats in place from which the sets of three cages
are suspended.
Hi

SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1937

a

‘YoRod SUOSMEC WOIJ SUSLUIDIdS ‘MOI JOMOT : UOLSUTYSe AA JHOGe UOIS9I dy} WOT SUdUUIDadsS

‘MOI O[PPILU ! OUT] []B} oy} 9AOGe ‘Yo0I URNDODSIQ, Wot} susUTIDods ‘Moar doz,

SDIUWIH AU SISDQOUWos)

bl

OL
72 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Ohio Canal below Sycamore Island. Those from Occoquan Creek,
above the fall line, are without spiral sculpture and usually olive green,
sometimes with a spiral band of brown. They duplicate Gomobasis
of the Shenandoah River (see the top row of fig. 74). The specimens
taken at Dawsons Beach are all spirally lirate, that is, they have uni-
form spiral threads (see the bottom row of fig. 74). The specimens
taken from the Chesapeake and Ohio Canal are not of uniform size,
coloration, or sculpture, but vary enormously in all three of these
characters, as shown in the middle row of figure 74. These are be-
lieved to be hybrids of the mollusks above the fall line of the Atlantic
coast, that is, the smooth form and the spirally lirate form of the
mouth of rivers just above the influence of salt water, while the inter-
mediate forms, like those about Washington, I believe to be the product
of crossing of the other two, i. e., mutations produced by hybridiza-
tion, a fact to be proved or disproved by the experiment.

In one of the Millville cages we placed 500 tips of the year from
Dawsons Beach, in another 500 of the complex occurring at Wash-
ington, and in the third 500 each of tips taken above the fall line of
Occoquan Creek and Dawsons Beach.

In the Roaches Run Bird Sanctuary we placed 500 tips of the year
from Dawsons Beach in one cage, in another 500 tips taken from
Occoquan Creek above the fall line, while in a third we placed 500
each from these two localities.

At Fort Belvoir we shifted our cages from the Fisheries Station
to the pontoon station where they will be less subjected to shifting
ice this winter, and here we placed 500 tips of the year taken above
the fall line in Occoquan Creek, in another cage 500 of the Washing-
ton complex, and in the third 500 each of the Occoquan and Dawsons
Beach specimens.

Although we consider that the experiments of the past 2 years are
largely negative, as far as Goniobasis is concerned, they nevertheless
presented some interesting facts in other directions. For example:
In the mud in the cages at Roaches Run and Fort Belvoir we found
specimens of the mollusk Anodonta cataracta Say, one of which mea-
sured 66.2 mm in length, 40.0 mm high and a diameter of 19.3 mm;
the glochidium from which this was grown must have been shed by
fish upon the cage and fallen through the wire mesh and developed to
this size in 8 months. Some of these Anodontas bear as many as
eight ‘‘ annulations ’, which in the past have been considered indica-
tions of annual increments; in other words, the shell in question,
which must have been no older than 8 months, would in the past have
been said to be 8 years of age.
SOPs eLiNnG INSECTS ON LAE TSEAND OF JAMATCA

By EDWARD A. CHAPIN
Curator, Division of Insects, U. S. National Musewm

Because of the inadequacy of the collection of Jamaica insects in
the National Museum, I was granted permission to spend 5 weeks
on the island early in 1937. The major objective of the trip was to
secure beetles of the family Scarabaeidae, but it was also intended
that general insect collections would be made. Leaving New York by
the United Fruit Company S. S. Quirigua and spending a very profit-
able and pleasant day at the Cuban Agricultural Experiment Station
at Santiago de las Vegas en route, I arrived at Kingston, Jamaica, the
afternoon of January 27. Preliminary arrangments for lodging and
transportation had been made for me by Dr. R. E. Blackwelder,
present holder of the Smithsonian’s Walter Rathbone Bacon Traveling
Scholarship.

Jamaica lies in the Caribbean Sea about 80 miles south of Cuba,
is roughly 150 miles east and west, by 50 miles north and south, and
offers to the naturalist as wide a range of habitats as is to be found
in a tropical island. From sea level with mangrove swamps and marshy
savannahs, one may go in a short distance to the tops of the Blue
Mountains nearly 7,400 feet above. Much of the land is under cultiva-
tion, but there are forested areas in various parts of the island.

During the first half of my stay, headquarters were made at Half
Way Tree, a suburb of Kingston. From here by motor car we were
able to reach within the day any desired locality in the eastern half
of the island. Best collecting grounds were found at Bath in
St. Thomas, in Friendship Valley (south of Port Antonio and in the
John Crow Mountains), near Manchioneal, and along the Rio Cobre
between Kingston and Spanish Town. At Bath we were fortunate
in finding a recently felled cotton tree (Ceiba) from part of which
a dug-out canoe had been made. On the remains of the trunk and
large branches we took many specimens of a large cerambycid
(Steirastoma histrionicum White) and many other striking Coleoptera.
Nearby in the Plantain Garden River many Dryopids were taken from
under stones. From the very soft trunk of a tree long dead (probably
also a Ceiba) two species of Rhyssodidae, a beetle family not known
to inhabit the island, were taken.

Through the generous hospitality of the Bovells of Caymanas
Estates Limited, we were permitted to spend 2 weeks with head-

73
74. SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Ftc. 75.—The main street of Black River, Jamaica. Not different from most of
the smaller Jamaica towns.

Fic. 76—Maggoty Falls is perhaps the most beautiful of any on the island.
SMITHSONIA

EXPLORATIONS, 1937

SY
on

Fic. 77—This old Spanish aqueduct has been repaired and now serves to
carry water from Hope River to Hope Gardens. Hope Gardens, Kingston,
Jamaica.

#

Fic. 78.—Hope Gardens with the office building in the background. Bordering
the lawn is a very excellent collection of various species of palm trees.

6
76 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

quarters at their estates of Derry (near Balaclava) and Kensworth
(near Newport). From Derry the northern part of the west end of
the island was easily worked, and from Kensworth we found many
good localities along the south shore from Alligator Pond Bay to
Savanna-la-Mar. On the beach grape at Alligator Pond Bay a very
interesting and as yet undescribed species of lady bird beetle (Psyllo-
bora, n. sp.) was taken 1n numbers.

The most productive method of collecting that we resorted to was
by means of a net fastened to the top of the automobile. While very
little could be taken in this way in broad daylight, a truly prodigious
number of specimens, mostly of small to minute size, were caught

*

Fic. 79.—Our car with collecting net in position for use. On our return in
the evening from collecting, this net added many thousand specimens which
would otherwise have been missed.

each day between the hours of five and seven in the evening. For an
example, the net was used on the road one evening from Spanish
Town to Half Way Tree, a distance of 13 miles. After discarding
the fragile specimens which were broken by impact with the net, we
saved 3,953 specimens of beetles, representing 146 species distributed
among 34 families. Many of these species were previously not known
from the island and some are certainly new to science.

Although insects were relatively scarce because of the drought con-
ditions which prevailed during our stay, we succeeded in securing
some 50,000 specimens of various orders, representing about 1,000
species. Three species of scarabs new to science were found, as well
as several which were not previously represented in the collection of
the U. S. National Museum.
Wiss, 13 UMPIRE INES): Ole WAU JUN IIA

Bye AU SaslNiitien Gl ARK
Curator, Division of Echinoderms, U. S. National Museum

The “ invisible butterfly ” was present in Virginia in great numbers
during the past summer, and Mrs. Clark and I obtained records from
no less than 50 cities and towns in 16 counties, all in the coastal plain.
But never once did we see the butterfly.

The caterpillars, however, were abundant on cannas, and in some
places they had reduced the upper leaves to midribs only. Even the
caterpillars are not visible on casual observation. You have to look
for them under portions of the canna leaf turned inward and fastened
down to the upper surface. Pry up this leaf-flap, and there is the
caterpillar—a pale, rather sickly looking, singularly unattractive cater-
pillar. These caterpillars, we found, had escaped the notice of the
people whose gardens we examined. They had seen the damage to
their cannas, but did not know just what the culprit was.

From the caterpillars it is very easy to raise the butterfly. This is
a rather large, dull-colored skipper called the Brazilian skipper, re-
markable for its exceedingly swift and powerful flight. It lives
throughout the American tropics, where it is a pest on cannas and on
arrow-root, and occurs normally northward to South Carolina. But
it has a penchant for migrating, sometimes in great numbers, and occa-
sionally turns up as far from home as New York City or Long Island.
Whether the Brazilian skipper occurs regularly in eastern Virginia in
reasonable numbers or whether it visits the State only at intervals is
not known. This is a point to be decided in the future.

Butterflies have a disconcerting way of turning up in unexpected
places. One of the finest of Virginia’s butterflies, the Diana fritillary
(Argynnis diana) was heretofore supposed to be confined to the
western mountains, but Carroll M. Williams took it on the eastern
coastal plain, and Herbert Wagner found it in the Dismal Swamp.
The magnolia swallowtail (Papilio palamedes), very common in the
eastern coastal swamps, appeared this summer in several unusual
places, for instance near Warrenton and at Washington, D. C.

This summer’s work, and the kindness of friends, particularly Prof.
Ellison A. Smyth, Jr., and Carl W. Gottschalk of Salem, resulted in
the addition of six species and subspecies to the list of Virginia but-
terflies, making a present total of 139. The most interesting was the

77
8 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Fic. 80.—Typical Virginian habitat of the sub-arctic skipper, Pyrgus
centaureae, at Rocky Run. The entomologists are Ashley B. Gurney, Rich-
ard P. Dow, Harald Rehder, Miss Grace Sandhouse, and Mrs. A. H. Clark.

Cc

Fic. 81.—Two common mud-puddle butterflies; A, Colias philodice philodice
(female) ; B, Terias lisa (male). C, the common copper, Lycaena phlaeas hypo-
phiaeas; D, the “ invisible butterfly,” Calpodes ethlius.
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1937 79

D

Fic. 82.—A, the orange clover butterfly, Colias philodice eurytheme (female) ;
B, the red-banded hairstreak, Strymon cecrops, under side, 14; C, the two-
spotted skipper, Atrytone bimacula, upper (left) and under (right) sides; D
the magnolia swallowtail, Papilio palamedes.

,
80 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

two-spotted skipper (Atrytone bimacula)—a very inconspicuous and
decidedly rare species thrilling only to a specialist—which we took in
Augusta County.

Strange varieties of butterflies are always interesting to get. This
summer Mr. Gottschalk sent us a red-banded hair-streak (Strymon
cecrops) in which all the bright red on the under side is replaced by
yellow. It is strange that in a butterfly so abundant as this no one has
previously reported this variety. This corresponds to the rare variety
of the American copper (Lycaena phlaeas hypophlaeas) in which the
red is replaced by yellow. We captured the first known Virginia speci-
men of this in Fairfax County on May 2.

Much has been written on the changes in customs of human popu-
lations resulting from migrations from one region to another, but few
have paid any attention to changes in the habits of immigrant butter-
flies. Although it 1s true that most immugrant butterflies do not change
their habits—noticeably at least—a few of them do.

Some years ago when the western orange clover butterfly (Colias
philodice eurytheme) was becoming established in Virginia, and it
and the native yellow form (C. p. philodice) were about equally com-
mon, it was noticed that although the males of the yellow one were
much given to sitting on mud in groups often of large size, their
orange relatives never did this. In the companies sitting on the mud

there were sometimes one or two individuals with a slight flush of
orange (the form ariadne), but never a full-colored orange one.

During the past summer the immigrant from the West appears to
have learned the pleasures of sitting on mud and sucking up the mois-
ture. We noticed this in several places in the western portion of the
State. On August 14, 1937, near Moscow in Augusta County, we
saw about 35 males of the orange clover butterfly sitting in a com-
pact group on mud in a road, together with three males of the yellow
native and a few males of Terias lisa, these last at some distance from
the others.

So far as this region is concerned, this is a rather remarkable change
in the habits of this butterfly. It appears to be becoming thoroughly
adjusted to its new environment and to be adopting the habits of its
local relative.

There is much to learn about the butterflies of any region besides
the simple fact of their occurrence.
PSECORING DHE LAKES OF NORTHERN WISCONSIN

By PAUL S. CONGER

Custodian, Section of Diatoms, U. S. National Museum, and Research Associate,
Carnegie Institution of Washington

Wherever natural waters occur, microscopic life may be expected
in abundance, with diatoms (those one-celled or colonial plants with
boxlike cell walls of glass or silica) almost inevitably present. But
some waters, depending on their nature, are more productive than
others. To find a place where such waters of varying character, with
consequent diversity of life, are within easy reach of each other is not
simple, but northern Wisconsin is just such a place. During the latter
half of the summer of 1937 I was able to continue collection of diatoms,
as in two previous summers, among the lakes here, in cooperation
with the University of Wisconsin, and the State Geological and
Natural History Survey.

The region has had a peculiar history of exploration. Visited first
by the French Jesuits in conquest of new domains, then again around
the turn of the century by the great lumber barons in conquest of
rich virgin forests, it was left, a barren cut-over and burned-over
waste, to trappers and adventurers. In recent years a wide-awake con-
servation commission has realized that it has all the attributes of a
great summer playground—good climate, beautiful lakes, fishing,
quiet, and seclusion—and is taking timely and energetic steps to pro-
tect it as such.

Half a century ago Dr. Edward A. Birge, pioneer biologist of the
University of Wisconsin, visited the lonely northern woodland and
lake region by horse and buggy, over rough logging roads, and saw
in these lakes a rich territory for a far-sighted limnological program.
Some 12 years ago, with his associate Dr. Chancey Juday, he again
visited the region, setting up a laboratory at Trout Lake in a deserted
bath house where they could make a few observations for compari-
son with their studies of southern Wisconsin lakes. But the region
proved so varied and so interesting that they stayed on and on until
their laboratory and its staff grew to include five buildings and a per-
sonnel of chemists, physicists, and bacteriologists, as well as biologists.

Nature here seems to have planned an ideal layout for the student
of fresh-water biology. With the Trout Lake laboratory as a focus,
within a radius of 30 or 40 miles, there are in the one county reputedly

8I
82 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Fic. 84.—Dr. Birge (right) and Mr. Kerst taking solarimeter readings.
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1937 83

Fic. 85.

Forestry Bog, a soft-water closed bog.

Fic. 86.—Trout Lake, a medium hard-water drainage lake.
84 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

more than 800 lakes, more water area than land. In this, one of the
world’s most concentrated lake districts, one may conveniently visit
several lakes in a morning and study his materials in the afternoon.

But what, after all, is so interesting about a lake? To the vacation-
ist who frequents this region, a lake is a fairly sizeable body of water,
fixed and unchangeable year in and year out, which should yield what-
ever type of fish he may choose to angle for. To a biologist, on the
other hand, a lake is a highly particular and sensitive body of water,
dynamic and variable, and teeming with life of a very unstable and
changeable nature, no more capable of producing a bumper crop of
fish unsuited to it than a sandhill farm is capable of producing a heavy
crop of corn. And no two lakes are precisely alike; each has a per-
sonality of its own.

The kind of fish depends upon the kind and abundance of a myriad
of smaller organisms upon which they feed, and these in turn upon the
kind and abundance of small plants serving them as food, the plants
upon chemical food materials dissolved in the water, and all of these
upon the configuration of the lake basin, the surrounding soils from
which its waters drain, the amount and quality of solar radiation for
plant growth, and many other complicated factors.

In years of diligent work Drs. Birge and Juday have analyzed and
tabulated on readily accessible cards the chemical constituents of 540
of these lakes, thereby giving intimate and comparative knowledge of
their characteristics, and aiding selection of particular lakes for spe-
cial experiments ; as it were, a vast series of aquaria already set up
for experimental study.

With this well-adapted background, I have thus far obtained diatom
collections from about 150 of the lakes, representing all diverse types.
These collections, from lakes often superficially very similar, show a
“ survival of the
fittest’ plays an important role; often slight and subtle differences

considerable variety of species, with evidence that

in proportion of chemical substances in the water, or in some physical
factor such as temperature or light penetration, favor one species and
give it dominance over another.

Some lakes are probably much the same today as the day they were
formed, others have evolved to the stage of a nearly filled bog. Some-
times the latter are the more interesting, but often the most inacces-
sible. Frequently we could not get a light skiff through the scrub pine
and over the bog margin to a lake, and it was preferable to use an
inflated rubber boat somewhat resembling a huge doughnut. Footing
in it was always insecure, and one stroke of the short oar would spin it
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1937

Fic. 87.—The rich and various diatom flora of Ink Pot
Lake, a shallow, medium hard water, alkaline, drainage
lake.

Itc. 88.—The meager and restricted diatom flora of For-
estry Bog, a very soft water, highly acid, dark-colored
closed bog.
86 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

around like a top. Judging by the puzzled and amused expressions of
onlookers, when we embarked within public view, our craft must have
been picturesque, to say the least, as it pursued a zig-zag course over
the surface of a boggy lake under the erratic control of two-half-
dressed limnologists, huddled in the center and leaning over the in-
flated pontoon to take water samples in bottles, pulling a little silk net
behind, and lifting mud from the lake bottom in a small brass bucket.

Uncompleted examination of the collections indicates that in gen-
eral diatoms flourish much more prolifically in the drainage than in
the seepage lakes, in the hard-water than in the soft-water lakes, and
in alkaline than in acid waters. The very boggy lakes, high in organic
matter and very acid, yielded few diatoms.

I was so deeply impressed, on a number of occasions, with the strik-
ing differences in microscopic life in closely adjacent and apparently
similar lakes, which differed only in proportions of dissolved substance
by a few parts per million, that I made a point of noting within a
period of a few days about August 20 the following lakes, “ in bloom ”’
with the corresponding organisms :

inintlemealcess GValasmCos) pepper Lyngbya, Anabaena

Eishwirapplealken(@Valass Cos) heeearene ee Fragilaria crotonensis

lnkeinyay, Lake (OWaIEIR (CO))5ocsascccanooas Fragilaria crotonensis

River Laika ((@hnveraky, (COs) soacboaanacedococ Fragilaria crotonensis, Asterionella,
rotifers

Grassys Wake Galas Cos) eee eee er Rotifers, Nauplii. (No diatoms.)

Sweeney Lake (@neida Co:)--.....-...:1 Velosira granulata, Stephanodiscus
niagarae

Midzeybakem @Valass Gon) pee eae ree Dinobryon, Ceratium (2 species)

Scattold: bake (Valast@os)\- ene aero A yery minute blue-green alga species

Why the differences? That is the problem. It is scarcely conceiv-
able, with lakes as old as these and so close to each other, and with
diatoms and algae as abundant and easily distributable as they are by
birds, water currents, winds, and other agencies, that all the different
species would not have had full opportunity for widest distribution
in all the lakes. To determine the reasons why some organisms abound
to the exclusion of others 1s a delicate and complex problem. The job
of exploring Wisconsin lakes is scarcely more than begun.
WGK OPOLOGICNE aX PE ORATIONS ON DEE
ALEUTIAN AND COMMANDER ISLANDS

By ALES HRDLICKA
Curator, Division of Physical Anthropology, U. S. National Museum

Three memorable months were spent in the summer of 1937 at sev-
eral points in southern Alaska, on a series of the Aleutian Islands in
different parts of the chain, and on the Commander Islands. Owing
to stormy weather and fogs the trip was strenuous and much time was
lost, but through good fortune and the invaluable aid of the Coast
Guard, more was accomplished than had seemed possible during the
earlier part of the trip.’

The expedition included six volunteer students: Sydney Connor, of
the Girard Institute and the University of Pennsylvania; Paul Geb-
hardt, of the University of Arizona; Paul Guggenheim, of the Wash-
ington University Medical School, St. Louis; Alan May, of Wen-
atchee, Wash.; Stanley Seashore, of the University of Iowa; and
Walter Wineman, of the Indiana State Teachers College. These men
took part in all the search and work and deserve much credit for
what was accomplished, particularly the two “veterans”, May and
Connor, who were also with me in 1936.

* The chief credit and thanks in this connection are due to Commander L. C.
Covell, at Washington, D. C.; Capt. R. W. Dempwolf, at Seattle; Capt. H. R.
Searles, the head of the Alaska Division of the Coast Guard, and to Capt.
P. F. Roach, with the officers and crew, of the cutter Duane. Grateful acknowl-
edgment for effective aid is further due to Capt. F. A. Zeusler, of the cutter
Northland; to Capt. N. G. Ricketts, officers and crew of the cutter 7alapoosa;
to Lt. A. J. Carpenter and others of the cutter Morris; and last but not least to
Mrs. R. W. Dempwolf and Mrs. H. R. Searles, both of whom gave whole-
hearted assistance. Thanks are further hereby given to Capt. Robert B. Carney,
Dr. W. H. Harrell, and other officers of the U. S. S. Sirius, who transported
the members and collections of the expedition from Unalaska to Seattle; to
Gordon Jones, Superintendent of the great Alaska Packers Cannery at Larsens
Bay, Kodiak Island; to Mr. and Mrs. E. K. Pedler, of the Alaska Commercial
Company at Unalaska, who aided us in the friendliest manner in every possible
way; and to many friends, white and also native, who assisted us with informa-
tion and in many other ways. Cordial thanks finally are due to the Russian
authorities at Nikolsk, Bering Island, for their courteous and helpful treat-
ment of the expedition. Without the aid and good will extended to us on all
sides but little could have been accomplished in the uninhabited, partly still
uncharted and stormy regions that were visited.

87
INSTITUTION

SMITHSONIAN

88

*pueIS,T MOTSST AA

: SOOTAVIO

Bling JO, sunuNnT_y—o06 ‘D1
ering 10f Un Ey A

‘purlsyT Moyjsst\\ :yoroadde pue 1z0qiey sy .[—6g

j Pon a NO =
iN
) Sn ot 2
‘ . ¢
: ‘ ee

at

‘OT

SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1937 89

Fic. 92.—‘“ Hell’s Kitchen,’ Amlia.
go SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

The expedition started from Seattle May 21, 1937, on the cutter
Northland; transshipped at Juneau to the Talapoosa; changed at
Unalaska to the Morris, from which it explored Unalaska and the
Four-Mountain group; shipped again on the Talapoosa, on which it
reached Attu and the Commander Islands and from which it eventu-
ally (July 17) was placed on the uninhabited and little-known island
of Agatu, in the westernmost American group, where 22 days were
spent in excavation. On August 8 the party was taken from Agatu
by the cutter Duane, visited with this vessel the islands of Attu,
Tanaga, Hak, Adak, Umnak, and Shiprock, and returned August 20
to Unalaska. There we were met by the Navy transport Sirs, to
which we transferred the collections, and on the morning of August 21
left for Seattle.

Scientifically, the work on Agatu Island and that during the last
12 days of the journey proved the most remunerative, being topped on
August 19, the last day of the trip, by the discovery of a hitherto un-
known cave, or rock shelter, on Shiprock Island in the Umnak Pass.
The anthropological materials collected during the 3 months filled 51
boxes and barrels ; but even more important were the determinations
made possible by the recovered skeletal remains.

The results indicate the existence throughout the Aleutian Islands
of a separate type of people antedating the Aleut. These were an
oblong- and medium high-headed type, occasionally somewhat eski-
moid, but more commonly Indian-like. Their latest strains admixed
more or less with the broad- and low-headed Aleut.

The occupation of the islands by the earlier element, as shown by
the deposits, was considerably longer than that by the Aleut, and the
people at one time must have been rather numerous. Both types ex-
tend throughout the chain, but the Aleut overlay thins out as one pro-
ceeds from the Peninsula westward. Some of the blood of the older
oblong-headed element evidently still exists in a few of the mixblood
survivors on the islands. It is the same type as that found in the lower
deposit or stratum on Kodiak Island. All the old sites on the Aleutian
islands probably belong to this type, but generally contain a cover,
an adjunct, or intrusive burials of the characteristic later broad-
heads, or Aleut.

Since 1926, the beginning of these explorations in Alaska, it has
been clear that there were two physically distinct varieties of the
Eskimo, and it now is seen that at one time there were also two
varieties of men in the Aleutian Islands. Moreover, neither of the
types in the Aleutians were identical with either of the true Eskimo
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1937 OI

Fic. 93.—Vicinity of Hot Cave, Kagamil.

Fic. 94.—Mount Cleveland, Aleutian Islands, 1937.
Q2 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

types, and though somewhat related to them, they were at least equally
related to the Indian.

The far Northwest of the American continent contains thus no less
than five distinct though basically related strains of the native man.
These are: 1, the long- and high-headed Eskimo of the Seward Pe-
ninsula, Barrow, and generally eastward to Labrador and Greenland ;
2, the broader- and medium- to high-headed Eskimo of East Cape, the
Diomedes, Norton Sound, the rivers from Yukon southward and the
proximal parts of the Peninsula; 3, the broad- and low-headed late
Aleut, extending from the central parts of the Peninsula and the
Aleutian chain, some of whom still live in those regions ; 4, the oblong-
medium to high-headed pre-Aleut, in individuals somewhat Eskimoid,
in others more Indian in their characteristics, extending originally
over all the Aleutian Islands and to Kodiak; and 5, the Indian tribes
of the great rivers, Cook Inlet, and farther eastward. These Indian
tribes themselves present two or three different strains: the oblong-
headed Shageluks, the interior Tinneh (Dene) tribes, and the Thlin-
kits or Kolushans of the Gulf region and southeastern Alaska.

There are no clear lines of demarcation, however, between these
different types; their averages, especially in the male adults, differ
distinctly, but their extreme measurements connect, especially in the
children and women. This is particularly true of the broad-headed
Eskimo, the late Aleut, and the Cook Inlet and more eastern Indians.
The whole region impresses the observer as a human “ nursery ” con-
stituted by several related strains of Asiatics, from which either the
pronounced Eskimo or typical Indian could readily have developed.
The pre-Aleut people of the islands could perhaps be conceived as a
more protean stock, from which either true Eskimo or true oblong-
headed Indians may in time have arisen. It is in all probability the
same strain as that found in the older layers of the mounds at Van-
couver and elsewhere in the northwestern regions. The archeological
indications are that this strain moved from the west eastward, and not
the reverse as seems to be the case with the Aleut.

In addition to the above the expedition found, on Agatu Island, a
new chipped-stone industry, belonging to the pre-Aleut people; en-
larged considerably the cultural materials from Amoknak Island,
Unalaska ; obtained new types of lamp and of stone and wooden ob-
jects from Kashega and other places ; added a series of mummies with
specimens of the decorated weaving art in matting from Shiprock,
Umnak Pass; and examined sites and made collections at Yakutat.
Nuchek, Wisslow Island, Chernovski (Unalaska), Kashega (Una-
laska), Umnak, Kagamil, Amlia, Atka, Adak, Tanaga, Ilak, Attu,
93

SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1937

“SSUTIOAOD S}T JNOYPIM

Se

AUIUWUNUI

V

jordiy

S— 96 “SI

'SSUIIOAOD S}T YIM AtuMU WY : yoo1dtyS—'S6 ‘ony

O4. SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

and Bering Islands. On Kagamil, which yielded numerous burials last
vear, the two old caves were revisited and all remaining material re-
covered, and two new rock-shelters containing old burials were
discovered.

The Commander Island visit, the main object of which was to find
whether or not these islands had been inhabited before the Russians,
and thus whether or not they may have served as a second bridge for
man’s coming from Asia, was not conclusive one way or the other.
The Russians there were all recent and had not given any attention
to possible old sites; the few natives that could be consulted were
originally brought over from the Aleutian Islands, are Russianized,
and knew nothing of what we were after; and only the mouth of one
stream, that at Nikolsk, could be examined in the short time at our
disposal, and that was so affected by erosion that no idea could be
formed as to what the conditions may have been in that vicinity a few
hundred years ago. The islands had no native population when reached
in 1741 by the Russians. Whether or not there are any old sites in
the islands may only be determined by a survey of the vicinity of the
mouth of every likely stream on both of the islands. This task could
not be carried out by us because of our ship’s lack of fuel. Consider-
ing that the highlands of Bering Island could be seen on a clear day
from the nearest highlands on the coast of Kamchatka, and that there
was about the two islands an abundance of fish, sea otter, seal, and
sea cow, with many foxes on land, it would be very strange if the
islands, even though colder than the Aleutians and stormy, had not
been reached and for a period at least peopled by the Asiatics, who
may then have discovered and moved over to the Aleutians. However,
the facts of the case remain to be determined.

a
INGE OLOGYS OF HE VINGIN TSPANDS

By HERBERT W. KRIEGER
Curator, Division of Ethnology, U. S. National Museum

On a recent visit to Washington, Robert Nichols, Superintendent
of Agriculture of St. Thomas, Virgin Islands, informed Dr. Wet-
more, Assistant Secretary, Smithsonian Institution, of a large shell
mound on the Island of Anegada, the most northerly of the British
Virgin Islands. As a result of this information, an expedition was
organized to explore the mound, the scientific objective being a com-
parison of the Indian relics to be recovered there with the large col-
lections obtained by previous Smithsonian expeditions from the
Bahama Islands, Cuba, Jamaica, Haiti, Santo Domingo, and Puerto
Rico. The writer sailed October 14 from New York, and returned
at the close of the year.

Since the immediate objective was an exploration of the Anegada
mound, the cooperation of the United States Coast Guard Service
was obtained within a few days after arrival at the beautiful port of
Charlotte Amalie, St. Thomas. Captain Walsh of the Coast Guard
boat, the Marion, and his entire crew were quite willing to embark on
the expedition since they had not heretofore sailed in the British
waters immediately adjacent to Anegada.

Many fertile suggestions were forthcoming from officialdom in Char-
lotte Amalie regarding the proposed sojourn on Anegada, for many
dark tales had been told regarding its native population, whose naive
occupation of steamer wrecking 1s still listed in current encyclopedias.
No one at Charlotte Amalie had ever seen Anegada, and stories of
shifting and disappearing lighthouses, of shoals, hulks of wrecked
freighters, and of the mysterious splendor of house furnishings of a
marine flavor in the huts of the leading citizens of Anegada were freely
circulated among the credulous members of our expedition from Cap-
tain Walsh down to the courtly cook. Nevertheless, all were anxious
to go, including most of the small American colony of Charlotte
Amalie.

En route to Anegada, an official call was made on the Commissioner
of the British Virgin Islands, at Road Town, on the Island of Tortola.
The Commissioner was highly pleased with the prospect of placing
Anegada on the map archeologically. Mr. Roy, Agricultural Super-
intendent of the British Virgin Islands, who was thoroughly familiar

95
INSTITUTION

SMITHSONIAN

‘JUV99T JSOUL 9} ST ‘9PIAe STY} UT paqriosap
‘SpuRIST ULsII\ 94} 0} UoNIpedxe syy, ‘oSejadiyose ueIpuy ysaA\ oy} JO spuRyst 19430 UO SUIBWOI [PIN}]ND 93eS1}S9AuI
0} Osye “saAvd BURUIeS oY} JoyjAny o10jdxo 0} ueIUOSyyUS ayy Aq peysjedsip useq aAey suoipedxa [eorsojoayore
‘HoqqV “TM “4d 32] 24} fo ys0ddns jeroueuy 94} YIM pue ‘AraAOdsIp siyy Aq Peze[NUINS “OsulWog OJUeS UsJo}sea ‘Aeq
BUBLTES JO STOYS YINOS oY} UO SaAvd Ul SUIPPHUUDYIITY SAIsUa}X9 PotoAOISIp qqer) “J WeIT[IA\ 69g1 uj—Z6 ao) sf

Se VIANZANAA
0 1109 :
won ee So S
en N (Fo =P SIUIW 3LNLvls 101=HONI |
viINvouVN

y) goog - 5 Le6!1-826!
th 0 $3) ao SSAIGN!I LSAM
von} SHL NI a
@ NOILNLILSNI NVINOSHLINS &
e BAHL AG
RQ PD anaoninus g “SNOILVOILSAANI 1VIIDOTOSHOUY

soavesve

ead) = SS

a

x10K0'1S

vere Ol OLYANd aes

pala sandaia 4G Cue
2 nwoottgtte Sees
J 7 i>
I ee vee de

SONVSI ** Fi is}
Fee NISMIA ae o-®

INIWOG

++4++FOVAON wZ SNGWNIOD ae
~~~ ASVAOAis!| SNEWNIOD (sna?
SUYaLISHS AAVD Sof SONI Aes
> “sinauyno Nva00 sah FEN
SHdVY90L9Id a7 re cas eX on “og
““SHdA190UuLAad -

“~SIVNGIAIGNI
“""“SAlYaLAaNadS

sivianad

woavaivs Nvs, 7 °% nn
yO aNiwa 4s, zg \ fp ) ares
oN zs = VIUNONG
DO NVAVONI-YYMvuV-siuva Lee Oe 14a oy.
SALIS ADVTTIA 2

: re
VuSHL meggene \ Bosau oe SS clas :
SIOGWAS 4O GNA937 < won yma fn O2/xIaW

(is eaten ne 40

ez y

oavay AU

1Lvayu9

Fic. 98.—Captain Walsh, of the U. S. Coast Guard cutter Marion approaches
Anegada’s shore by walking on the ocean floor which is here as smooth and
firm as a pavement. The water is too shallow even for the ship’s boat.

Fic. 99.—The reception committee at Anegada, comprising a good share of
the entire population, waited while we adjusted trousers and foot gear after
our journey ashore through the ocean shallows.

Fic. 100.—Mr. Roy, Agricultural Superintendent of the British Virgin Islands,
standing atop the mound of conch shells near the eastern end of Anegada.

97
98 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

with the native population and the geography of Anegada, joined the
expedition at Road Town.

On his second voyage to the West Indies in 1493, Christopher
Columbus, after pausing at the islands of Dominica, Guadeloupe,
St. Martin, and St. Croix, long enough to give them their names,
which they have retained to the present day, observed north of low-
lying St. Croix a formation of rocks, islets, and mountainous islands
“too numerous to mention ” even to this facile explorer. His imagina-
tive brain immediately visualized this massed archipelago as symboliz-
ing St. Ursula and her 11,000 virgins—hence the name Virgin Islands.
He singled out the Island of Tortola as worthy of a special name,
since it appeared to be more mountainous—suggesting great mineral
deposits, which after all, was a major objective of this First Explorer.

The island of Anegada was approached cautiously at half speed
because of the extensive shallows. At a distance of 5 miles from the
shore the Marion dropped anchor in 4 fathoms. Anegada, a low-lying
coralline formation, was but dimly visible. The Jarion’s boat was
launched and loaded with supplies. Practically the entire population
of Anegada, embarked in a nondescript fleet of sailboats and row-
boats, came out to meet us, to “ see that it was done properly ”’, as we
learned later from the colored British Government Agent. He did
not explain what he meant by “‘it.”” A lookout in the only tall tree on
the island had reported the Marion aground. Native joy was soon
dampened when the lookout’s error was discovered.

No time was lost in reaching the shell mound, which proved to be
a very large one built up almost entirely of conch shells, Strombus
gigas. The thorn forest which covers most of Anegada hid from our
view any other evidence of aboriginal occupancy. Since the excavat-
ing of a mound practically devoid of any cultural material other than
discarded conch shells was impractical, work here was restricted to
making measurements and photographs of the mound. A brief sur-
vey of the island was made in an attempt to locate other middens that
might be richer in cultural material, and selection was made of pottery,
shell, and polished stone implements gathered at random from the
surface. All of this consumed a few days’ time, after which the
expedition returned to Road Town.

Mr. Roy, who was very helpful throughout, suggested a trial ex-
cavation of the Indian midden just east of Road Town. With his
help, laborers were obtained and the highest part of the midden was
trenched. The results were striking in that the cultural objects ob-
tained were practically identical with material collected by previous
Smithsonian expeditions from Arawak village sites in Santo Domingo,
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1937 99

Fic. 1o1.—Magens Bay and valley on the north central coast of St. Thomas
as seen from Mafolie, a village near the mountain summit. In the valley shown
at the right is located one of the most extensive village sites of former Indian
inhabitants in the West Indies.

Fic. 102. Completing the trench of excavation No. 1 at Magens Bay, St.
Thomas. This site 1s at the extreme northeast end of the valley as seen in
figure IOI.

Fic. 103.—Examining debris from cut No. 2, the middle portions of excava-
tion No. 1, at Magens Bay, St. Thomas. Hand sieves were used by laborers
selected from the French settlements on the island.
100 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

thus contrasting markedly with material to be later excavated at
St. Croix and St. Thomas. Although the time consumed in the study
of the Anegada shell midden and the Road Town kitchenmidden was
brief, the scientific results obtained were definite. The position of the
Road Town midden as one of the older in the aboriginal cultural
sequence of the Virgin Islands became evident. Thus the archeological
chronology of aboriginal cultural remains in the West Indies finally
assumed form.

The next phase of the work of the expedition was the excavating
of prehistoric aboriginal Indian village sites on the island of
St. Thomas. This island is mountainous and presents a radically dif-
ferent aspect from that of flat, coralline Anegada. St. Thomas and
the other Virgin Islands proper belong geologically to the ancient
submerged continent of which mountainous Puerto Rico and the still
higher Santo Domingo constitute the main axis. Shore lines present
evidence of continued subsidence. The writer found quarters at the
Government Hotel which clusters around the tower of the infamous
pirate Bluebeard, the subject of many fabricated legends despite the
ponderous facts of the many rusted cannon and battlement stanchions.

It was a pleasant daily morning journey indeed to labor upward
in a 1928 Marquette automobile over the hogback of the mountain
range just back of and above sleepy Charlotte Amalie and then down-
ward along the steep northern slope into the broad, flat valley which
terminates in the waters of Magens Bay. Much of this area is the
property of A. S. Fairchild, whose residence, Louisenhoj, rests astride
a peak of the central mountain massif. Mr. Fairchild kindly gave per-
mission to excavate on his land and cooperated in every way possible
to make the undertaking a success.

The writer, whose previous experience in active investigation of
West Indian archeology was limited to the islands west of St. Thomas,
found at Magens Bay archeological specimens strikingly dissimilar to
the pattern of the Arawak culture of Santo Domingo. It became at
once apparent that cultural infection must have spread northward
from the islands of the Lesser Antilles which stretch southeastward
500 miles or more to the South American mainland. This made pos-
sible a comparison of the older Arawak (Taino-Igneri) culture trait
complex as typified in a midden at the extreme northeastern end of
Magens Bay valley with a later, more characteristically South Ameri-
can culture embodied in a series of nearby middens south and west of
the older Arawak site. Objects typical of each culture provided ample
data for a definite determination of aboriginal culture sequence in the
West Indies. The presence of red paint on the pottery vessels recov-
Fie. 104.—The west end of the island of St. Croix from the open roadstead
of Fredericksted. Montpellier Mountain in the background. Mountains such
as this are visible to one standing at sea level in St. Thomas, 40 miles north.
The South American Arawak Indian could always see one or more islands of
the Antillean chain as he migrated northward.

Fic. 105.—The sugar central at Bethlehem, centrally

located on the southern
plains of St. Croix.

Fic.
Amalie.
rough and arid.

106.—The denuded mountain slopes of St. Thomas near Charlotte
Slave labor once cultivated sugar cane on land now considered too

IOI
102 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

ered in the middens of the southwestern section of the valley is strik-
ing evidence of cultural infection. Painted pottery in the West Indies
is unknown west of the Virgin Islands, with the exception of red
painted ceramic wares in the vicinity of Ponce, Puerto Rico, and
white kaolin slipware from northern Santo Domingo in the vicinity
of Monte Cristi.

After an intensive archeological investigation of the Magens Bay
site, the writer undertook a survey of the island of St. Croix. In this
project he received the active direction and cooperation of Harry
Taylor, Administrator of the island, an enthusiastic student of arche-
ology, who hopes to develop for the Insular Government a museum
featuring the prehistory and natural history of the Virgin Islands.

The largest Indian village ruins on St. Croix are located on the
west side of an inlet and lagoon which indents the north shore of the
island at its approximate center. Here at the mouth of Salt River,
really a streamlet, but always providing an abundance of fresh water,
was the tribal seat. Excavations were undertaken at this major site,
also at other middens notably at Fair Plain, midway on the south
coast, at Prosperity, diagonally opposite the Salt River site on the
west end of the island, and finally at Ackles on the southwest coast
near the west-end Saltpond on the Camporico estate. Excavations
made at each of these sites afforded new data on the daily life of the
prehistoric Indian inhabitants of St. Croix and served to verify tenta-
tive conclusions based on the finds at Magens Bay, St. Thomas. Out-
standing at each site was the overwhelming evidence of cannibalism.
Complete human skulls and skeletal remains in quantity were mingled
with turtle, bird, and fish bones in the deep ash beds surrounding the
primitive hearths.

The German historian Oldendorp is authority for the statement
that the Virgin Island Indians were exterminated about 1550 at the
order of Carlos V of Spain. Perhaps Carlos V was in the right in
ordering Indians addicted to such practices to be treated as enemies
and to be exterminated, but we can only wish he had delayed the
execution of this order until an anthropologist could have studied them
as a living group. Cannibals sometimes are lovable people, and it is
conjectured that such a study might have shown the anthropologist
that these primitive St. Crucian cannibals were, as a part of their
defense mechanism, exercising a culture trait borrowed from their
enemies—the Caribs.
INAUGURATING AN ARCHEOLOGICAL SURVEY
IN KANSAS

By WALDO R. WEDEL
Assistant Curator, Division of Archeology, U. S. National Museum

Systematic researches in Great Plains prehistory during the past
decade have thrown much light on what has long been one of the
least known archeological areas in North America. It is now estab-
lished that throughout much of this region—the “ Great American
Desert ” of the early European explorers, bison-hunting Indians were
preceded before the coming of the white man by successive sedentary
peoples who subsisted primarily on the cultivation of maize and other
crops. The arts and crafts of these earlier peoples varied from lo-
cality to locality, and even in the same area there were temporal
differences. As yet it has not been possible to determine in every
case just how these differences came about. Students of prehistory
are still uncertain as to the connections which formerly existed be-
tween the tribes in the northern Plains and the higher centers of cul-
ture on the lower Arkansas and Red Rivers. Equally perplexing is
the relationship between archeological cultures in the Mississippi val- '
ley and those of the western Plains. One reason for the archeologists’
uncertainty in these and like problems is the almost complete lack of
reliable information on the prehistoric remains of Kansas, which lies
in the very heart of the Great Plains. To bridge this gap in our
anthropological literature plans were formulated for a State-wide
archeological survey of Kansas to be carried on by the United States
National Museum. As the initial step in this projected program,
the writer spent 3} months from May to September in reconnaissance
excavations in northeastern Kansas and adjoining portions of Mis-
sourl. Investigations included three village sites along the bluffs of
the Missouri River above Kansas City and two in the Kansas valley
near Manhattan.

During the month of June excavations were carried on at a small
but prolific site on Line Creek about 5 miles northwest of Kansas
City. This had been partly destroyed by recent road-building opera-
tions, but in the remaining undisturbed portions evidences were found
of a prolonged and intensive occupation by a horticultural people who
used it for a camp site before the arrival of Europeans. These people
made pottery of two distinct kinds. One was in the form of large
pointed-base jars the outer surface of which was often roughened by
impressions from a cord-wrapped implement (fig. 107, £, J). In form
and type of decoration this pottery is comparable to that classified as

103
104 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

/ J Kk fe

Fic. 107.—Potsherds from the prehistoric Renner site on Line Creek near
Kansas City, Mo.

Fre. 108.—Miscellaneous artifacts from the Renner site near Kansas City, Mo.
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1937 105

Fic. to9g.—Stone-covered burial, possibly early Kansa, near Doniphan, Kans.

Fic. 110.—Prehistoric rectangular earthlodge floor at Griffing site on Wildcat
Creek near Manhattan, Kans. Entrance passage to south.
106 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Woodland in the Eastern United States. In Nebraska and Iowa it has
been found stratigraphically below all other known local ceramic
horizons. Directly associated with this cord-roughened pottery was
a superior ware bearing decoration of the Hopewellian type (fig. 107,
A-D, F-H), never before reported as far west as Kansas City. There
was no trace of house remains, so the habitations must have been
entirely of perishable materials. Refuse-filled storage pits were plenti-
ful, and from them were taken many objects of chipped and ground
stone, bone, and horn (fig. 108), as well as some native copper and
hematite. Ground stone work included several grooved axes (fig. 108,
P), one unfinished, a type whose makers in the central Plains have
heretofore been unknown. The remains are unlike those left by any
of the protohistoric and historic peoples in the region. Through
courtesy of Transcontinental Western Air and Bureau of Air Com-
merce officials, the writer was afforded an unforgettable opportunity
to make aerial observations of the site and its surroundings.

At the old river town of Doniphan, Kans., whose older residents
still speak pridefully of a visit from Abraham Lincoln in 1859, we
next investigated the site of an early Kansa Indian village. This is
supposed to have been visited by Bourgmond in 1724 and was seen in
ruins by Lewis and Clark in 1804. Several graves (fig. 109) and cache
pits were opened, yielding both historical and native remains. Twenty
miles north of Doniphan, at Fanning, another earlier but tribally
unidentified village was examined. Some historical material was ob-
tained here, but aboriginal remains of a type known to archeologists
as Oneota were much more plentiful.

The latter part of the season was spent on the Kansas River near
Manhattan, about 120 miles west of Kansas City. Here were found
further traces of Hopewellian-like pottery. A few miles below the
mouth of Blue River we excavated a circular house site in the old
Kansa village visited and described by members of Major Long’s ex-
ploring expedition in 1819. As expected at this late date, the native
arts and crafts had largely been superseded by introduced European
trade goods. No aboriginal pottery was found here. Two miles west
of Manhattan a much older pre-contact village yielded a rectangular
sarthlodge floor (fig. 110) and lesser remains.

In summary, it was not possible to determine the distinguishing
characteristics of early Kansa Indian culture. However, the season’s
work indicated a wealth of important and varied archeological re-
mains in this portion of the Plains. For northeastern Kansas, the
probable sequence of early peoples is emerging, at least in broad out-
line, but more extended investigations are needed before the details
can be filled in.
ANGLENG Sim S VON: Ele BANGS OR eal riz
RAPPAHANNOCK IN VIRGINIA

By DAVID I. BUSHNELL, JR
Collaborator in Anthropology, U. S. National Museum

During the spring of 1937 a great freshet swept down the valley
of the Rappahannock from the foot of the Blue Ridge, where heavy
rains had fallen for several days. The low grounds were inundated,
and when the waters had receded it was discovered that many areas
had been greatly altered, gullies had been formed, banks of sand had
been deposited and, in some instances, the surface soil for a depth
of a foot or more had been washed away, causing the heavier masses
to settle and remain exposed. Traces of ancient camps and villages
were thus revealed.

The valley of the Rappahannock below Fredericksburg is more
open, the low grounds more extensive, and the river is wider than
above the falls; nevertheless, the force of the great flood was felt
far down the stream.

On May 9g, when the ground was becoming dry, several places be-
low the falls were again visited to see the effect of the flood and to
endeavor to recover some of the material thought to have been de-
posited by the swirling waters. Fortunately, a site of much interest
was encountered. It is on the right bank of the Rappahannock in
Caroline County, Va., a mile or more below the mouth of Lamb Creek
on the opposite side of the river and is shown in the aerial photograph
reproduced in figure 111, to the right of the black arrow which points
with the current. This is now a rich and fertile section of the valley,
but visualize the same region as it was in 1608, when first visited by
English colonists from Jamestown—a dense forest with small groups
of mat- and bark-covered lodges dotting the river banks, trails travers-
ing the wilderness, game and wildfowl to supply the wants and re-
quirements of the native hunters armed with bows and arrows, and.
streams teeming with fish. However, the earlier settlement, traces of
which were uncovered by the freshet, is thought to have been aban-
doned before the year 1608.

When the site was visited on May 9g, the surface for a distance of
a hundred yards or more from the river bank, and extending to the
beginning of the wooded area, was sand and gravel, all vegetation had
been swept away, and in places it was deeply gullied. Fragments of

8 107
108 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

pottery and objects of stone, some broken and others entire, were scat-
tered over the surface, indicating the location of a native village which
had been occupied centuries ago. Examples of the specimens col-
lected at that time are shown in figure 112. Above are 15 objects made
of white quartz, so plentiful in the valley. Projectile points, knives,
and scrapers are included in the group. The four pieces to the left
in the second row may have been mounted as knives and their simi-

Fic. 111.—Looking down the Rappahannock. Site of the ancient settlement to the
right of the black arrow. (Photograph by U. S. Army Air Corps.)

larity in form and size is remarkable, but being made of quartz the
condition and appearance of the surface does not aid in determining
their relative age. Below are 9 pieces representing a variety of forms,
all made of diabasic rock and with surfaces equally altered as a result
of long exposure. At the bottom is a cylindrical pestle, with a short,
shallow groove clearly shown in the photograph. Two forms of
scrapers may be recognized. All specimens, quartz and diabase, are
thought to be of approximately the same age. Some fragments of
earthenware found on the site bear the impression of coiled basketry,
and this is considered the oldest form of pottery occurring in the
Rappahannock valley; other pieces are cord-marked and some are
smooth, porous, and deeply pitted through the leaching away of the
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1937 109

Fic. 112.—Specimens from the site of the ancient settlement. (4 natural size.)
I1O SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

crushed shell which had served as the tempering material. Bits of
soapstone vessels were also found. The types and condition of the
objects discovered suggest that this was a permanent village rather
than a temporary camp, and the uniformity of the weathering makes
it appear that all articles of stone were made and used about the
same time.

Later in the year several sites farther up the river, which had like-
wise been exposed by the spring freshet, were visited and examined.
The material discovered, much of which differs from that now
figured, will be described and illustrated at another time.

Floods have been recorded ever since the country was settled by
the English, when much of the heavy timber was cleared away and
the ground was cultivated and leveled. The loosened earth was often
inundated and gullied, as during the spring of 1937, and although the
masses of refuse which had accumulated in and about the native vil-
lages during different periods of occupancy were once distinct and
stratified or separated, all became intermingled by the force of the
waters. This readily explains the variety of objects, made of various
materials, often encountered on the same site. Such conditions pre-
vailed not only on the Rappahannock but in the vicinity of other
streams as well.

Some years ago a beautiful example of the eastern form of Folsom
points was discovered near the left bank of the river a few miles
below the site just described. Unfortunately, it was found on the
surface, not beneath it, but this is not significant because, as explained
above, the clearing and cultivating of the land enabled the periodic
flood waters to change the contour of the land rapidly, and the Folsom
point may therefore have once been well below the surface. The
occurrence of the point in this region may be accepted as proof that
man was here many centuries ago, although just how early he reached
the country eastward from the mountains will be impossible to deter-
mine until more evidence is available.

During the year 1937, as for several preceding years, a superficial
examination was made of many sites both above and below the falls
of the Rappahannock. The results were interesting and satisfactory,
and have led to the belief that an intensive investigation, including the
excavation of certain areas, would prove of exceptional value and
shed light on the manners and ways of life, and possibly reveal the
identity, of the early inhabitants of the valley.
PiGINGUE DE SOR@;ssiRATE

By JOHN R. SWANTON
Ethnologist, Bureau of American Ethnology

Between 1939 and 1943 will occur the 4ooth anniversary of Her-
nando De Soto’s expedition across America to the Mississippi. As
chairman of the U. S. De Soto Expedition Commission, appointed
by Congress to recommend an appropriate celebration of this event,
I engaged in two field trips, the first, May 16 to June 4, and the
second October 8 to November 2. At Aberdeen, Miss., near which
point it is believed that De Soto crossed the Tombigbee River, I had
the pleasure of being the guest of Dr. W. A. Evans, for more than
40 years a leading physician of Chicago, who has now retired to his
boyhood home at Aberdeen. Dr. Evans took or sent me in his own
car to all points of interest along the Tombigbee from Columbus as
far as and beyond the site of Cotton Gin Port near the junction of
the main river and Town Creek, the possibilities of each of the cross-
ings being examined in turn, as well as the roads which might have
been taken by De Soto between the river and Pontotoc Ridge. Assum-
ing that the Chickasaw town was then on the ridge, it is concluded
that, while the crossing may have been made as high up as Cotton
Gin Port, the most probable location appears to be in the neighbor-
hood of Aberdeen. A visit was made to the site of the old fort occu-
pied by Bienville in 1736 during his disastrous Chickasaw campaign.
Collections of pottery made in this section were examined wherever
any such were found, and samples of some of them were obtained.

On the 22nd Dr. Evans took me to Oxford, and I made that the
center for a number of excursions undertaken for the purpose of
locating the Alibamo Province visited by De Soto in 1541, and study-
ing the probable location of the trail which the Spaniards followed
between the old Chickasaw country and the Mississippi (fig. 113).
During part of this work I-was accompanied by Prof. Calvin S.
Brown, author of the standard work on the “Archeology of Missis-
sippi.” On one occasion we extended our trip to Clarksdale, where we
were met and guided through that section by Charles W. Clark, who
has long been interested in the subject of the investigations (fig. 114).
Small collections of pottery were made at several places and much
interesting historical information collected. Before returning to Wash-
ington I visited Tupelo and was taken over the historic Chickasaw

III
INSTITUTION

SMITHSONIA

1A

“SSI ‘HoAeg s uosdofy sosso4s9 4
aOYM _IeIT, SAIeyD,, JO oul] oy} UQ—TII

“TOATY Iddtssisstpy oy} 0} AajUNOD MeseyorYyD
oy} Wor, AVM sty UO OJOS aq Aq paMoTjo} ATqeqoasd
[le1} 94} Ieou pue “ssi ‘rouueg JO YOU ‘yao19
eyo[eynNO jo yueq sy} uo punojy ueipuy— 11 ‘oyF

SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1937 ifsr 2)

Fic. 115.—Site of old Indian salt works on Salt Creek, Clarke Co., Ala.

Fic. 116.—View up Tennessee River from Battery Hill, Bridgeport, Ala.,
looking across Long Island. An old ford, possibly used by De Soto, is just
below at the right.
Ii4 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

town sites by Moreau B. Chambers of the Mississippi State Depart-
ment of Archives and History, who was then engaged in attempting
to locate the site of the old Bienville battlefield. I also had an oppor-
tunity to visit that section of the Tombigbee south of Tupelo.

The second expedition was directed primarily to the investigation
of a site in Clarke County, Ala., on the banks of Choctaw Lake near
the Alabama River, which it was thought might prove to be the long-
looked-for location of the town of Mabila at which De Soto’s most
famous battle with the Indians took place. James Y. Brame, Jr., of
Montgomery, Ala., the discoverer of this site, one of the foremost
students of the De Soto narratives and the De Soto route, organized
and promoted this investigation and obtained for its purposes access
to the land and the use of a camp maintained by the Choctaw Hunt-
ing and Fishing Club at Choctaw Bluff. The site is known locally as
Lower James Hammock and its position agrees well with what the
documents of the De Soto expedition would lead us to expect. Num-
bers of test holes on this site failed, however, to show evidence that
it had been surrounded by a stockade or traces of European materials
or of skeletons, and while there 1s still a possibility that this is the
site in question, it remains unproven. The potsherds collected here
show certain interesting features, particularly in the employment of
the edge of a corrugated shell in decorative designs and indications
that the Indians living here made pots with long legs comparable
in length to some used in Costa Rica, though there is no cultural
relation whatever between them. After work was suspended at this
site, investigations were extended to other parts of the county, but
with the exception of a small site near Gainestown previously located
by Mr. Brame, and the old salt works along Salt Creek (fig. 115), no
Indian remains of consequence were found in the sections visited.

After leaving Clarke County, I went to Tuscaloosa, and from there
David L. De Jarnette took me to Scottsboro, from which point as a
center | was enabled to examine the middle course of the Tennessee
liver between Guntersville and the Tennessee State line, the object
being to determine the probable route pursued by De Soto’s army in
descending this river in the summer of 1540 (fig. 116). It seems
evident that they crossed and recrossed more times than have been

supposed.
ie cu DENME TER] SimlE IN NORDMHERN COLORAD®
CONTRIRCIES AD DIMOND ON
Mt HOLS OM CO MEE x

Ba RAUNT wee Ee ROBERTS, (RS
Archeologist, Bureau of elericen Ethnology.

Investigations in a little-known phase of American archeology were
continued during the summer of 1937 at the Lindenmeier Site in
northern Colorado. It is at this location that Folsom man, one of the
earliest known inhabitants of the New World, camped and left numer-
ous examples of the weapons and tools that he manufactured and
used in his occupation of killing big game. Excavations made in previ-
ous field. seasons contributed much information on the material cul-
ture of the people and threw some light on their mode of life, but
they produced no skeletal remains to show what manner of men they
were. The 1937 work added valuable data on various phases of the
problem, although it failed to locate any of the elusive mst lls or
to find even one human bone.

When the writer and members of the Bureau of American Eth-
nology-Smithsonian expedition returned to the Lindenmeier ranch
in June, excavations were resumed at the place where they terminated
at the end of the preceding season. During the course of the summer
an area covering some 2,800 square feet was uncovered and numer-
ous traces of occupation were found (fig. 117). The level where the
remains occur follows an old hillside and its depth below the present
surface ranges from 4 feet, where work began, to 6 feet 3 inches, the
point reached when the season closed.

Specimens are found either at the bottom of an old soil zone or in
a thin layer of earth, only slightly stained with humus, just below it.
The underlying stratum over the entire area is a hard tufaceous clay
dating from the Oligocene. In some places the dark soil stratum
rests on this clay and the artifacts are along the contact. Where the
thin stained earth layer intervenes, the objects are scattered through
it. The importance of this occurrence is that it demonstrates the
presence of the people in the region prior to the developments lead-—
ing to the formation of the heavy soil zone, as well as during its
initial stages. The thin layer was formed by the decay of the surface
of the tufaceous layer, the deposition of some wind-borne material,
and some decaying vegetal matter. Sections where it is absent con-

II5
116 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Fic. 117.—General view of portion of area being excavated.

Fic. 118.—Boulders used as anvils in left foreground of picture.
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1937 MAL Y/

Fic, 120.—Stone implements and bone fragments in situ.
118 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

stitute high spots on the surface of the tufaceous layer that were
exposed to wind and water action. The latter either prevented the
formation of the thin layer or carried it away and permitted the heavy
soil zone to develop on top of the clay substratum. The thicker, dark
layer was produced by heavy vegetation, rank grasses, during an inter-
val when there was considerably more moisture and more propitious
growing conditions. This factor ties in with geologic studies of the
site and surrounding area and 1s of significance from the standpoint
of the age of the site.

A number of boulders were lying on what was once the old hill-
side (fig. 118). These stones were in the same positions that they had
occupied when that level was the inhabited surface. Several showed
that they were used for anvils. Bones, to be cracked and split for
marrow, and stone nodules, sources of material from which to make
tools, were placed on these boulders and struck with hand-held ham-
mer stones. Innumerable splinters and small fragments of bones
were in the dirt around some of them, while flakes and chips of chert,
chalcedony, jasper, and other materials favored for implements lay
alongside others. The status of the objects definitely indicated that
they were just as left by the one-time dwellers at the site, that they
were not washed there, and that this actually was a portion of the
former camp.

Other parts of the excavated area yielded quantities of cut and
split animal bones (fig. 119) associated with stone implements (fig.
120) and other evidences of human activity. The implements consist
of typically fluted projectile points, scrapers of various kinds, knives,
drills, and flakes with minute points that probably were used to
scratch designs on bone and stone. Many of these artifacts are simi-
lar to those found in previous years, but a number represent new
types. Several bone fragments bearing portions of incised decora-
tions were also obtained.

Dr. Kirk Bryan and Louis L. Ray, of the Division of Geology,
Harvard University, continued their geologic investigation of the
site and neighboring regions and by the close of the season were
able to formulate conclusions on the age of the deposits. The
evidence indicates that the cultural layer was made long after the
climax of the Wisconsin period and within the Late Glacial. Hence,
it may be said that Folsom man lived in the region several thousands
of years ago, while glaciers still lingered in the nearby mountains and
the climate was colder and wetter than at present. The latter feature
probably accounts, in part, for the heavy soil zone at the site.
STUDIES AMONG THE MONTAGNAIS-NASKAPI
ENIDUANS OM Dak NORTE E RNS HORE Or
Wish Silky IOAWVINIZINGIS, IRIN 15¢

By TRUMAN MICHELSON
Ethnologist, Bureau of American Ethnology

Through a generous grant-in-aid made by the American Council
of Learned Societies, the writer was enabled during the summer of
1937 to undertake field-work among the Montagnais-Naskapi Indians
in Canada. Early in July he went to Quebec and from there em-
barked on the steamship Sable IT of the Clark Steamship Company
for Natashquan, where he stayed a little over 2 weeks. He spent
another 2 weeks at Seven Islands, and then went to Bersimis, where
he spent a few days. Owing to the migratory habits of the Indians,
however, he was able to get data on the Indians of a number of other
places in this region, including Mingan, Moisie, St. Margaret’s River,
Godbout, Shelterbay, and Sheldrake. He was also able to check his
previous information on the Davis Inlet Indians of the Labrador
Coast, and by good fortune came in contact with an Indian of a band
from the northeast corner of Lake Kaniapiskau—a band barely known
to the scientific world.

The principal object was to complete a linguistic map showing the
distribution and interrelations of the Cree and Montagnais-Naskap1
dialects, upon which the writer has worked for some years. The main
results of the expedition are that the extreme eastern dialects on the
north shore of the St. Lawrence River are rather sharply defined, and
the most western ones clearly “tie up with” the dialect of Lake
St. John, whereas the intervening dialects show a variety of mix-
tures; the dialect at the northeastern end of Lake Kaniapiskau is
obviously closely related to the dialect of Rupert’s House on James
Bay. The technical proofs of these assertions will be given in pro-
fessional journals. The accompanying map is based not only on two
seasons of field-work among the Indians of the area adjacent to James
and Hudson’s Bays financed by the American Council of Learned
Societies, but also on data furnished by the post-managers of the
Hudson’s Bay Company of Cumberland House, Oxford House, and
Norway House, as well as by some missionaries, and on certain docu-
mentary sources of information. The letters /, th, , y, r, show the
treatment of original /. These transformations have taken place inde-

119
120 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Fic. 121.—Indians at Natashquan.

Fic. 122.—Bersimis. Leaving for the north.
2

SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1937

“ETI DIY
£667 6290 ‘NOSTFHIIW NOEWNLL AG “SLOTTLIG IV MSYN-SIVNIPINOW ONY FFA FHL SO SNOMY7FAAFLNI ONY NOMNGYLSIO

—e
5 °

NINONOOT¢- bag,
sooo?

/oA/NCMSYM FNL ISO FHWT
bmg, 7

A pe FO ae es

A fissvasiw7 gone ELS,
7 oy BY: .
ie) S ’ FASOH LOS
x s 4,
y
J
“y aeysiay!

°Y MIP ASF :

Ss
AYWSIS VINYY nN

N ‘S

NAS/HIIN 7

: MELD
J % Eid SNOW G¥OIXO

ON
I22 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

pendently a number of times, and those in the Cree dialects are
independent of those in the Montagnais-Naskapi ones.

It should be noted that after three centuries the Indians of the
northern shore of the St. Lawrence River still have some of the
identical stories which can be read in the Jesuit Relations. It might
also be remarked that their catholicism is superficial, shamanism is
found everywhere except at the posts, and at one post the writer saw
one of the large conjuring drums. In aboriginal belief, there is a
“boss of the caribou’ and a “ boss of the fishes ” ; inside the conjur-
ing lodge (“ the shaking lodge”) is an “ interpreter ” (Mistapeu and
variations) ; the all-high god is ‘he who bosses it” (Katependahk
and variations). An interesting observation was that at the north-
eastern corner of Lake Kaniapiskau a man may marry his paternal
aunt’s daughter, but that is the only girl cousin he may marry. It
may be remarked that the Montagnais-Naskapi of the Labrador Pe-
ninsula represent the original culture of Algonquian least modified by
contact with other Indians. Also it should be observed that there
are marked individualities among the Montagnais-Naskapi just as
there are with us.

A tragic element in the lives of the kindly French-Canadians who
inhabit the north shore of the St. Lawrence is the prevalent poverty.
They depend entirely for their livelihood on hunting and fishing, but
furs do not bring what they used to, and the salmon is not as com-
mon as formerly. Moreover, a number starve to death in the woods
every winter, as do also many Indians.

The writer was fortunate in meeting on his journeys a number of
Canadian scientists, including Prof. G. Préfontaine, of the department
of biology at the University of Montreal, who was tagging salmon ;
Dr. H. F. Lewis, of the National Parks of Canada; and T. W. Wylie,
of Ottawa. To these he extends his best thanks for their welcome
aid, as he does also to the Doctors La Vallee, of Seven Islands and
Bersimis, the officials in charge of the Indians at these localities.
SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

EXPLORATIONS AND FIELD-WORK OF THE
SMITHSONTAN INSTITUTION
IN 1938

(PUBLICATION 3525)

CITY OF WASHINGTON
PUBLISHED BY THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION
1939
The Bord WGattimore Drees

BALTIMORE, MD., U. 8. As

PREFACE

The stated function of the Smithsonian Institution, “the increase
and diffusion of knowledge,” is carried out mainly by research, scien-
tific exploration, and publication. Several of the branches of science
prominent in the activities of the Institution depend to a large extent
on field exploration for specimens and data. The present pamphlet
describes briefly the results of the 1938 expeditions in the interests of
geology, biology, anthropology, and astrophysics. The articles are
written, and the photographs taken, largely by the field explorers
themselves.

This year’s pamphlet has as a unique feature a foreword to one of
the articles written by the President of the United States, Franklin D.
Roosevelt. The Institution is grateful to him not only for making it
possible for it to be represented on the expedition described, but also
for the interest in the Smithsonian’s scientific work which he
expresses.

W. PB. True, Editor.
CON PEINGES

PAGE
Abbot, C. G. A new observatory, and some Mount Wilson observations.... 15
Aschemeier, C. R. Collecting turtles and fish in Florida................... 51
Bartlett, Capt. Robert A. Cruise to Northwest Greenland, 1938........... 50
Bassler, IRS Se Siabehes sim linvelisht excolloeay anaes cotgosuucassonueebobouneo 21
lark Austin El (Bhe- buttertiies OL Varcinian (2.0 see a. 65
Cooper, G. Arthur. Collecting fossils in the Catskills of New York........ 20
Garin Gy Wewise Ancientamamimals Ob Witaltus res ela tot cee tte ns alee 25
Hrdlicka, Ales. Explorations in the Aleutian and the Commander Islands... 709
Kellovs Remington. Cetacean- studies aim Murope.... 3.04.2 50) eens ee. AI
Kol, Ersébet. Biological research on the snowfields and glaciers of Alaska,
TOS Oe SB ice Nee TAO re alte One iC ate Nie ano Ang: GA WHILE SR GG R I. manana ily 69
Mann, William M. and Lucile O. Some European zoos.....:............- 33
Perrygo, W. M. A search for birds and mammals in Kentucky............ 47
Roberts, Frank H. H., Jr. On the trail of ancient hunters in the western
WintedeeS tates and: 4 Gama das ius pate ieee eis iam tran es Miia: 103
Schmitt Waldo le Whe Presidential Grutse Of 1O38snGes a5 ee 3
Schultz leonard PR: ihe tresh-water fishes.or Virginia <2...) 342020... 55
Setzler, Frank M. Exploring a cave in southwestern Texas.............. 75
Steward, Julian H. Anthropological reconnaissance in South America..... III
Stewart, T. D. Excavating the Indian village of Patawomeke (Potomac).. 87
Swanton, John R. Further notes on the route of De Soto................. 99
Wedel, Waldo R. Archeological reconnaissance in southeastern Colorado... Of

Wedel, Waldo R. Excavations in Platte County, Missouri................ 905
Dee SDN we CRUISE Or e938

FOREWORD

I gladly avail myself of this opportunity to say publicly that, in
addition to the personal pleasure his presence afforded those of us
who made the cruise aboard the U.S.S. Houston last summer, it
was a source of great satisfaction to have Dr. Waldo L. Schmitt with
us in the role of scientist representing the Smithsonian Institution.
I am advised that the collections he made, with the assistance of the
officers and enlisted men of the Houston, have contributed greatly to
the treasure of exhibits the Smithsonian already has gained posses-
sion of through previous explorations by its scientists in that part of
the world we visited.

I believe our experience points the way whereby the Smithsonian
Institution, in the future, at practically no cost whatever to itself,
will be able to extend its research work into other parts of the world
and make it possible for its scientists still further to enrich our knowl-
edge of natural history. I have no doubt but that the Smithsonian
would have gained much worthwhile information had any one or a
number of its scientists accompanied the Naval Expedition which
went last year to the Enderbury and Canton Islands. That Expedition
was exclusively astronomical in character. Its members went to
observe the eclipse that took place on June 8. They were not particu-
larly concerned about natural history nor in learning of the other
interesting phases of life as it exists on the Islands themselves or in
the waters thereabout.

If the Smithsonian Institution, in the future, would care to be
represented in such expeditions as the United States Navy and
other government services send out from time to time, | shall be glad
to help make the necessary arrangements.

We cannot know too much about the natural history of this world
of ours. We should not be satisfied merely with what we do know.

FRANKLIN: D. ROOSEVELT.
THe WHITE House
Washington
December 20, 1938
ced

Eh PRESIDE NGI At CRUISE OF 193s
By Wee @ Pew SCEVila a

Curator, Division of Marine Invertebrates,
U. S. National Museum

When the President invited the Smithsonian Institution to partici-
pate in his recent cruise to the Galapagos Islands, I was pleased
beyond words that I was designated Naturalist to the expedition. All
manner of collecting was undertaken: fishing, bird hunting and
botanizing, dredging, tidepool and shore collecting—indeed all kinds
of endeavor that might yield something of interest to the Institution
and our National Collections. The ichthyological collection, which
perhaps took first place in the President’s interest, is one of the most
important ever to have come to the National Museum from that
section of the Pacific.

In looking over the material brought back, one cannot help being
imbued with an enthusiastic appreciation of the President as a man of
broad biological interests and a generous patron of science. Through-
out the cruise he took an active part and a live interest in all our
collecting.

The success of any expedition depends almost wholly upon the
adequacy of its equipment and personnel. Expeditions to otherwise
inaccessible places are using ever larger airplanes, and so, too, the
use of correspondingly larger ships has proved to be of untold value
in marine investigations. This, I know, is quite the reverse of what
an uninitiated investigator might be led to believe, but the use of a
large battle cruiser such as the U.S.S. Houston proved an unqualified
asset and a blessing every day of the trip. Having this ship as our
base of operations made it possible to accomplish as much as we did
in a scant 24 days at sea.

The Houston is a full 600 feet in length. Her full complement
totals over 700 men and officers. On this particular cruise, however,
the crew numbered nearer 600. Thus, at all times there was ample
assistance at hand for whatever undertaking the day might bring
forth.

The ship has a top speed of 32 knots, which is something like 40
miles an hour. However, at no time did she find it necessary to go
above 26 knots, about 30 miles an hour. The Houston, moreover,

3
4 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Fic. 2—Clipperton Island landing. The island is an almost barren sand and
coral atoll, about 600 miles off the coast of Mexico.

ae ea as ; is eae it

Fic. 3.—Narborough Island from Tagus Cove, Galapagos. Characteristic of
most of the islands of the archipelago, it is composed of a central volcano whose
outpourings of lava have built up the island through the ages.
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1938 5

Fic. 4.—Leaping porpoise, Hood Island, Galapagos.
(Photograph by R. B. Thompson.)

Fic. 5.—Landing party at Elizabeth Bay, Albemarle Island, Galapagos.
Three members of the crew have a sea turtle which they have just captured.
This launch was put at Dr. Schmitt’s disposal fer the duration of the expedition,
both for dredging and shore collecting. (Photograph by R. B. Thompson.)
6 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

has fully equipped shops equal to any emergency: machine, carpenter,
and electrical shops, sail maker, airplane mechanics, print shop, barber
shop, and, of course, superlative medical service and hospital, with
complete dental laboratory, clinic, and staff. Built to serve as fleet
flagship, this cruiser had ample accommodations for a number of
guests, as well as convenient laboratory and storage facilities for my
work.

We left San Diego July 16, and the following afternoon found us
at anchor off Cedros Island, Lower California. In a comparatively
short time 37 fish were caught by the fishing parties, besides some 200
others which were taken over the side by members of the crew using
hand lines. Among these was numbered a 120-pound black sea bass
or jew fish caught on a light 20-pound test line. Although groupers
and sea bass of several species were plentiful, California yellowtails
formed an important part of the day’s catch in the fish-boats.

The next three days in succession were spent at Magdalena Bay,
July 18; off Punta Gorda, Cape San Lucas, July 19; and Socorro
(sland, July 20.

At Magdalena Bay the only white sea bass, Cynoscion nobilis, of
the cruise was captured. Here the dredging was very rich. On the
sandy, weedy bottom of the bay, inside the entrance to the northward,
in 10 to 15 fathoms, an almost incredible number of amphipod crusta-
ceans were discovered. The water in the buckets used to transport the
dredged material to the laboratory aboard the Houston became cov-
ered with a thick film or “‘scum” of these small shrimplike organisms.
In the portion of the bay worked over they must have been literally
as numerous as the grains of sand on the bottom. I have never seen
so many amphipods in one place before. Our Museum amphipod
specialist, Clarence R. Shoemaker, was moved to make the same
remark when he was presented with more than a solidly packed quart
of them. It was an amazing sight.

The capture of a large gulf grouper, Wycteroperca jordani, at Cape
San Lucas extends the range of this species southward on the west
side of the Gulf of California below Cerralvo Island, south of which
it had not been taken before on this side of the Gulf. This particular
specimen, by the way, is the first of the species to find its way into the
collections of the National Museum.

At about 11 o’clock at night one of the engineer officers called me
to the engine room to see a lot of bright red shrimp they had dis-
covered in the suction side of one of the condensers opened for minor
repairs. It was a galatheid shrimp very common in Lower California
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1938 Ul.

waters, at least at certain seasons. At times they occur in such count-
less numbers they color the water red for great distances. Huge
windrows of the dead shells of these animals have been observed in
the past as a conspicuous red streak along the shore line. Crustaceans
of this type form an important whale food and without doubt this
species played an important part in the former abundance of whales
in the Lower Californian and Mexican waters. A large black sea bass
taken in Magdalena Bay during the day regurgitated several of these
galatheids when hauled into the boat.

At Socorro Island, July 20, some of the best fishing of the cruise
was experienced. Leopard groupers, spotted cabrillas, California
yellowtails, and also several blue crevallys were taken. The President
landed the scientific prize of the day, a blue crevally, Caranx stellatus,
establishing a record weight for the species—38 pounds. From along
shore in Braithwaite Bay, a small mullet, Wugil setosus, was obtained ;
also the first of its kind that the National Museum ever received.

On July 21, an eventful day and one of the high lights of the cruise,
we landed on Clipperton Island, the only true coral atoll in eastern
Pacific waters. Dr. Wetmore had long been anxious to obtain a study
series of the birds frequenting this isolated and seldom-visited coral
island. Thirty-two birds were obtained, as well as a fair sample of its
marine fauna. At least one new species of crab was discovered
here. Dr. William Randolph Taylor, of the University of Michigan,
who has prepared for publication a report on the algae taken, writes:
“The Clipperton Island collections are unique, for landing on this
isolated atoll is especially difficult.” He states further that he found
the jars of mixed algae from the lagoon very surprising, inasmuch as
he had assumed that the water was salt by seepage or other admixture
from the sea. The plants he found indicated, “on the contrary, that
it is at least nearly fresh, at any rate near the surface and in the
shallows, though probably heavily polluted with nitrogenous matter
from the bird colonies. The bulk of the material was of Myxophyceae,
which is appropriate under such conditions, and apparently great
masses of Lyngbya versicolor must have been present at least near
the shore. This is not a definitely marine species. With it were other
Myxophyceae of cosmopolitan habits. In sparing amounts an unde-
terminable Chara appeared. Finally, four desmids were found in
considerable numbers.” One of these Dr. Taylor 1s describing as new.

Unfortunately, we did not obtain a sample of the lagoon water, as
had been planned, for, although the landing was not particularly
hazardous at the time of our visit, it was nonetheless difficult and had
Fic. 6.—1. Pacific “rock beauty,” Holacanthus passer, Gardner Bay, Hood
Island, Galapagos, 12 inches in length. (Phctograph by R. B. Thompson.)

2. “Blue crevally,” Caranx stellatus. This species was taken at Cape San
Lucas, Socorro Island, and Cocos Island. At Socorro, the President caught
a 38-pound one, the heaviest on record. (Photograph by F. B. Adams.)

3. Young tiger shark, Galeocerdo arcticus, a 60-pound specimen taken at
Clipperton, still showing the characteristic striping that gives this species its
name. (Photograph by R. B. Thompson. )

4. “Golden grouper,” the beautiful reddish golden-yellow form of the com-
mon Colorado grouper of the Galapagos Islands, Mycteroperca olfax, caught
off Tagus Cove. (Photograph by R. B. Thompson. )

O

ia)
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1938 9

Fic. 7—Land iguana on the defensive, South Seymour Island, Galapagos.
(Photograph by R. B. Thompson.)

Fic. 8—Galapagos albatross with young at the rookery on Hood Island, Gala-
pagos, July 28. (Photograph by R. B. Thompson.)
1%@) SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

to be made partly by swimming through the surf. Our getting ashore
on Clipperton is just another tribute to the efficiency of the Navy and
a further instance of the value of their cooperation in scientific ex-
ploration. Landing in heavy surf is a part of the Navy’s routine
training, and so they took the Clipperton landing in their stride, as it
were.

There were so many sharks at Clipperton that they utterly ruined
the fishing. Not only did they destroy the few fish that were hooked,
but they usually destroyed the tackle as soon as it was put into the
water. Closer in toward shore the President observed a considerable
number of blue trigger fish schooling about at the surface and, desir-
ous of knowing more about them and obtaining a few specimens of
them for the Museum, he tried baiting a trout hook with a tiny strip
of fish skin. It was just the thing, for three of them were caught in
short order. These beautifully colored trigger fish, Welichthys radula,
occur also in the East Indies and are found in Hawaii and at Socorro
and Clarion Island, as well. The President, who at all times was
as much interested in the bottom and reef species as in the game fish,
got another of these blue trigger fish at Cocos Island.

Eight days, July 24-31, were devoted to our Galapagos investiga-
tions. In these scientifically famous islands were made some of the
best hauls of fish of the entire cruise. A number of rarities such as
the gray thread-fin bass, Cratinus agassizu, and the southern barra-
cuda, Sphyraena idiastes, were taken on several occasions. The former
looked like a good pan fish. As no one seemed to have any informa-
tion on the subject and nothing could be found in any publications
available on board, the President had one prepared for his mess. He
said it was very good eating. The heaviest yellow-fin tuna taken
weighed 56 pounds. Wahoo were plentiful off Hood Island and gave
those of the party who tangled with them ‘“‘a run for their money.”
The largest weighed 54 pounds. Three were brought back to the
Museum for study, as the Institution heretofore had only a mcunted
specimen of this large game fish.

Together with the wahoo, five species of fish never before repre-
sented in the study collections of the Museum were obtained in the
Galapagos. The other four species were the Pacific amberjack, Seriola
colburni, of which the heaviest weighed 28 pounds; the round-herring,
Etrumeus micropus; a pilot fish, Doyvdixodon frenunvillet; and a
demoiselle, Nevilosus albemarleus. The Pacific amberjacks constitute
the first record of this species from the Galapagos Islands.

We visited the famed albatross colony on Hood Island, and found
a number of birds at this late date, July 28, still incubating eggs and
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1938 It

Fic. 9.—Frigate birds attracted by the sailfish bait off Cocos Island. The birds
tried to fly away with the bait on several occasions.

Fic. to —Flamingo walk—not a new dance, but a striking almost rhythmic
walk affected by these birds at times. Salt lagoon at James Bay, James Island,
Galapagos.
IZ SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

others with fledgling young. Two days before, we had noted two pairs
of flightless cormorants on Albemarle, one pair with eggs under one
of the birds, the other pair attending two half-grown young. It is
believed that these observations extend the known egg dates for both
species of birds.

On a number of occasions some very interesting animal life was
obtained from the anchor chain. For instance, when the anchor was
hoisted at Tagus Cove, a number of specimens of sea urchins were
found attached to the chain. They belonged to a genus new to the
Galapagos and, moreover, represented a new species.

Two and a half days were given over to the reputed “treasure
island” of the Pacific, Cocos Island. It was indeed a treasure house of
sailfish, for 16 were obtained in the course of the brief stay there.
The largest was 10 feet 2 inches long and weighed upward of 130
pounds. The President captured a record rainbow runner, Elagatis
bipinnulatus, a 20-pound specimen of a species not heretofore known
to have exceeded 12 pounds. He also had a most interesting experi-
ence—the landing of a 9}-foot, 100-pound sailfish in a knotted loop
of his line. The “beak’’ of the fish became entangled in the line while
he was playing a still larger individual that had been hooked a moment
earlier. Although the hooked fish got away, he managed to bring the
snared one to gaff. Those who have seen the beak of the fish, which
the President has saved with the knot in place, believe that this is the
first time a good-sized sailfish or perhaps any sailfish has been landed
in this manner. The top fish for weight taken by any member of the
President’s party was a 230-pound tiger shark, Galeocerdo arcticus,
that he himself hooked while circumnavigating Cocos Island. It took
him a good 14 hours to land it. Off Chatham Bay a party from our
convoy, the U.S.S. McDougal, harpooned a giant ray, Manta birostris,
which should be mentioned here because it is one of the few specimens
for which one is able to record the actual weight. It tipped a heavy-
duty boat scales at 1,645 pounds, and measured 15 feet wide and 9g feet
long, exclusive of its 4-foot tail.

With the aid of a detachment of officers and men from the Houston
I obtained comprehensive botanical material of an undescribed species
of palm, and some rare tree ferns of which several species are known
from this still incompletely explored island.

The next leg of our journey, Cocos to Balboa, was uneventful. No
scientific collecting was undertaken in the Canal Zone, August 4-5.

Collecting was resumed at Old Providence Island in the Caribbean
on August 6. Though lying abreast the Atlantic coast of the Republic
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1938 13

s

Fic. 11.—Mr. Frederick Adams with his Cocos Island sailfish, 9 feet 7 inches
long, 120 pounds. The large tiger shark on the deck weighed about 230 pounds.
It was brought in by the President after a tug-of-war of an hour and 36 minutes.
It was the heaviest fish of the cruise caught with rod and reel.
T4 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

of Nicaragua, this island is a part of the Republic of Colombia.
There was no sport fishing at Old Providence. Game fish were scarce
or absent, a few mackerel and two young barracuda constituting the
catch by the fishing parties. On the other hand, the shore and reef
collecting and dredging were very productive. Two new species of
goboid fish were caught in a tidepool, also a small rockfish new to the
Museum collections, as well as a new form of marine plant.

Our arrival at Pensacola on August 9, the twenty-fourth day, 5,888
miles out from San Diego, marked the conclusion of a most successful
cruise. Over and above a host of other scientific material—geological,
botanical, and zoological—83 different species of fish were caught by
one means or another. Still other species were seen, but for want of
specimens could not be identified, such as the large green parrot fish
at Clipperton. About 250 individual fish, representing about 60 dif-
ferent species, were brought back to the Museum for study and
permanent preservation in the National Collections.

The larger game fish are most inadequately represented in ichthyo-
logical collections throughout the world, not so much for want of
facilities for storing them, as because of the difficulties attendant upon
their preservation at the time of capture and their transport to their
final resting place, which in the past necessitated large and often
unwieldy tanks and almost unmanageable quantities of preserving
fluid. Aboard the Houston, however, it was a relatively simple task
to place the specimens desired by the Museum in the large cold storage
freezers of the ship, and then, on arrival at port, to pack them with
dry ice in wooden packing cases, suitably insulated with corrugated
paper, for safe shipment to Washington. The fish were unpacked
there still hard frozen. When thawed out in tanks of tap water, they
returned to practically the identical fresh condition in which they had
been placed in cold storage. Many of the fish still retained much of
their original coloration, having apparently undergone little or no
change from the time they were brought aboard ship. This is but one
of many instances in which a large ship with ample facilities of all
kinds can render science inestimable service.

To the President, as Commander-in-Chief of the Navy and of this
expedition, and to Captain Barker and the officers and crew of the
U.S.S. Houston, the Smithsonian Institution is indebted for a wealth
of valuable material, including some 30 forms new to science which
will be described in technical publications of the Institution.
A NEW OBSERVATORY, AND SOME MOUNT WILSON
OBSERVATIONS

By C. G. ABBOT
Secretary, Snuthsonian Institution

Thirteen years ago the National Geographic Society sent me to find
a suitable place in the Old World to observe the variation of the sun.
For the sun had been proved to be a slightly variable star, and it was
thought its changes might be the main element in weather control.
After investigating sites on lonely desert mountains in Algeria and
Baluchistan, I fixed on Mount Brukkaros in South West Africa,
within a Hottentot reservation. With a grant from the National
Geographic Society, an outfit of special apparatus was assembled, and
a tunnel observatory and a dwelling house were constructed on the
western rim of that craterlike desolate mountain.

For 5 years the sun was observed there on every possible day. But
though the sun nearly always shines on Mount Brukkaros and rain
hardly ever falls, we were disappointed to find that high winds carry
the fine sands of the desert high over the summit, making the atmos-
phere hazy and nonuniform, and involving too great a handicap in
measuring solar variation.

Then A. F. Moore sought to select a better station than Mount
Brukkaros by measuring conditions on a number of African moun-
tains, beginning on the Cape Verde Islands and going the rounds till
he arrived at Mount St. Katherine near Mount Sinai, in Egypt. Here
after over a hundred days of preliminary trials, it was decided that
a favorable site had been found. The equipment from Mount Bruk-
karos was installed on Mount St. Katherine, and complete observa-
tions of solar radiation were made there from 1933 to 1937. The
station proved excellent from a meteorological point of view.

However, with a European war gravely threatening, and because of
excessive cost of upkeep due to the inaccessibility of Mount St.
Katherine, and a depressing and persistent intestinal disorder which
attacked almost all members of the staff, it was found advisable to
abandon the station in December 1937.

Hoping to put our observing of solar variation on a more easily
maintained basis, and to fill in good observations in the interval
December to February when both of our other stations, in California
and in Chile, usually lose many days, I decided to locate a new station
in southwestern New Mexico. This region seems to partake to a

15
16 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Fic. 12.—Observatory site at Burro Mountain, N. Mex.

Fig. 13.—Dwelling house of Mr. A. F. Moore, chief of the staff at Burro Moun-
tain solar observing station.

SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1938 17

Fic. 14.—Excavating for the “tunnel.”
>

Fic. 15.—Instrument tunnel at Burro Mountain solar observing station.
18 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

considerable degree of the meteorology of Old Mexico, where there
are various sections which receive almost no precipitation except in
the months July to September.

Accordingly, A. F. Moore made a reconnaissance of various moun-
tains in southwestern New Mexico. Some proved too difficultly
accessible, some deficient as to water supply. He finally preferred
Burro Mountain near the town of Tyrone, readily reached from
Lordsburg or Silver City. It is of about 8,000 feet elevation and fairly
well covered toward the top with medium-sized pines. Small oaks are
scattered rather frequently lower down, and in summer, after the
rains, grass and flowers spring up, so that the country, which is rolling,
is very beautiful. The rainfall is expected to be not far from 10 inches
annually, and more than half falls in the months July to September.

The United States Forest Service welcomed the establishment of
the observatory and very helpfully improved a road quite to the site
of the station. Water was successfully developed, in ample quantity
and excellent quality, close to the road and about 2 miles from the
summit. It is easy to truck sufficient water to the station.

J. Heather, of Lordsburg, contracted for the construction of the
observing tunnel, dwelling houses, shop, and garages. Aided by a
grant of funds from John A. Roebling, the work was completed in
September 1938, and the equipment, formerly in Africa, was installed
in October and November under the care of A. F. Moore, field
director, and A. F. Froiland, assistant. Actual observations of the
solar radiation will doubtless begin in December 1938.

Although a certain amount of skepticism still prevails among
meteorologists as to the importance of the sun’s variation for weather,
it seems to the writer and to others with whom he has consulted that
the results published by him in several recent papers” create a very
strong presumption that the sun’s variation is in fact the major
cause of weather, and that if adequate observations of it were made,
meteorologists the world over would be able greatly to improve their
predictions.

*Sun spots and weather, Smithsonian Misc. Coll., vol. 87, no. 18, 1933.

Solar radiation and weather studies, Smithsonian Misc. Coll., vol. 94, no. 10,
1935.

The dependence of terrestrial temperatures on the variations of the sun’s
radiation, Smithsonian Misc. Coll., vol. 95, no. 12, 1936.

Further evidence on the dependence of terrestrial temperatures on the varia-
tions of solar radiation, Smithsonian Misc. Coll., vol. 95, no. 12, 1936.

Cycles in tree-ring widths, Smithsonian Misc. Coll., vol. 95, no. 19, 1936.

Some periodicities in solar physics and terrestrial meteorology, Vestniku

eskoslovenske fysiatricke spolecnosti vy Praze, Rocnik XVIII, Cislo 1-2 (54-
55), 1938.
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1938 ime)

Fic. 16—Truck and water tank, solar observing station, Burro Mountain,
N. Mex.

Fic. 17.—Road between instrument tunnel and dwellings, solar observing station,
Burro Mountain, N. Mex.
20 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

W. H. Hoover occupied the Smithsonian station on Mount Wilson,
May to October 1938, with two objectives: First, to grow plants in
nearly monochromatic rays, selected from the solar spectrum; second,
to measure the distribution of radiation in the spectra of the brighter
stars by heat methods.

Plant experiment.—-Mr. Hoover used a very large Christiansen
filter in a solar beam reflected into the observatory from a coelostat.
In that way he selected a narrow band of radiation in the blue. Peas
erew in these nearly monochromatic rays for many weeks, until
reaching a height of nearly a foot. It was hoped that blossoms would
appear, but the experiment had to be closed before the plant was quite
ready to blossom. Check experiments were made in ordinary day-
light of about the same intensity. These check plants were a little
more robust, but the continued growth of the plants in monochromatic
rays for so long a period was surprising to many.

Star spectra.Several nights observing with the 100-inch telescope
were attempted. Ten small Christiansen filters were used to select
narrow bands of spectrum at selected intervals between wave lengths
3400 angstroms in the ultraviolet and 10300 in the infrared. The
intensities were measured with a vacuum thermopile of L. B. Clark’s
construction, connected to a vacuum, magnetically shielded, Thomson
reflecting galvanometer mainly of Hoover’s construction. The mag-
netic shield was designed by the late Elihu Thomson of Lynn. The
galvanometer could be used in vacuum at 10 seconds single swing and
observed at 5 meters scale distance. At this sensitiveness, currents
of 1xX10'* ampere, or one ten-trillionth of an ampere, would be
measurable.

In practice, however, it proved that the thermoelectric couples
introduced too much drift for such extreme sensitiveness. The actual
observing of stellar spectra was done at not above 4 seconds single
swing of the galvanometer. But deflections as great as 20 millimeters
were observed in the spectrum of the star Vega. It is believed that
these experiments proved that when the 200-inch telescope is avail-
able, and with improved thermoelectric couples, and better insulation
from temperature changes of the surroundings, it will be readily
possible to use special diffraction gratings, and obtain continuous
energy spectrum curves of the brighter stars, with photographic regis-
tration of the galvanometer deflections.

Hoover's curves are not yet all reduced. For the star Vega, how-
ever, his results are in very close agreement with those obtained by
Abbot in 1928 with the fly-vane radiometer. But Hoover observed
much farther toward the ultraviolet than Abbot, and he obtained more
than 10 times as large deflections.
SMUDESS NEE NGESiEn GEOE@ GN

ByeRaS BASSE R
Head Curator, Department of Geology, U. S. National Musewm

Field-work by members of the department of geology is usually
devoted to the acquisition of new study and exhibition material, but
occasionally some of this time must be employed in a search for
knowledge to increase the scientific value of the existing collections.
This is particularly true with regard to many of the invertebrate
fossils collected by early students, who, for various reasons, did not
record their geological formation and geographic locality with the
accuracy required for the more detailed studies of the present day.
Several decades ago a general label for the occurrence of a fossil was
deemed sufficient, the identification of the species being regarded as
the most important information. Fortunately, a study of the rocks
in the identical or general localities from which the fossils were de-
rived will often supply this missing information. During previous
trips abroad, I visited classic localities on the continent partly for
this purpose; but a vacation trip to England during the past summer,
with the opportunity of traveling about quickly by automobile, per-
mitted a study of some well-known southern England fossil areas
extending from Cornwall on the west to the chalk cliffs at Dover.
With London as a base, excursions were made to various parts of
the English Lowlands, with brief intervals spent at the British
Museum of Natural History checking the formation and _ locality
occurrences of certain Paleozoic crinoids, and at the neighboring
Geological Museum at South Kensington, inspecting the newly in-
stalled physical geology exhibits.

The field studies included first the Subcarboniferous Mountain
limestone of the Avon gorge and the Mendip Hills areas near Bristol,
which have produced many fossil crinoids. A visit to the great
gorge through these hills at the latter locality (fig. 18) showed
extensive outcrops of the crinoid-bearing strata, although specimens
were not as common as the exposures would indicate. The gorge is
of interest to the general public for its caves and a cleft in the rock
which is said to have inspired the hymn “Rock of Ages,” when its
author was sheltered there during a storm. Arrangements were
completed for securing casts of type specimens of certain little-
understood crinoids from this area preserved in the Bristol Museum,
in order that their structure now can be ascertained.

21
22 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Fic. 18—Cheddar Gorge of the Mendip Hills.

Fre. 19—Lyme Regis, showing fossiliferous strata.
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1938

i)

Fic. 20.—Stonehenge, Salisbury Plain.

Fic. 21.—The Dover chalk cliffs.
24. SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Proceeding southward through the cathedral town of Exeter, on
the Exe River, Lyme Regis, the well-known Mesozoic fossil locality’
along the sea coast celebrated for its ichthyosaur remains, was briefly
studied (fig. 19). Next, the city of Bath, the fashionable watering
place located around the old Roman baths and in the center of the
Jurassic oolitic limestone outcrops, was of especial interest. Here the
houses built of white limestone and rising in successive terraces
present a more striking and handsome appearance than in perhaps any
other English town. Farther east, Salisbury Plain with its underlying
chalk formation afforded numerous outcrops, although again fossils
are not abundant. On the Plain, Stonehenge, the best-known example
of the ancient builders’ craft in Great Britain, erected by a race of
Bronze Age people about 1500 B.C., is an object of much interest.
Located just northwest of Salisbury with its dominant feature, the
famous cathedral founded early in the thirteenth century, this more
ancient temple was undoubtedly devoted to sun worship, since on the
summer solstice the rising sun casts a shadow of the heel stone on the
altar. The geologist found in tracing the origin of the stones, that the
outer circle at Stonehenge (fig. 20) is made of blocks of Tertiary
sandstone which once covered the Plain, while the inner circle and
horseshoe are of igneous rocks which must have been brought from
South Wales, 200 miles away.

South and east of London the chalk formation again comes to the
surface with frequent outcrops for collecting, in the anticlinal uplift
forming the Weald, bordered on the north and south by the Downs
with their ever-present flocks of sheep. Eastward along the Weald
the best exposures of the fossiliferous chalk beds and associated
greensands are along the sea coast, where at Dover and Folkstone the
geologist has ample opportunity for study (fig. 21). Return to
London was made through the hop fields of Kent, where in September
great numbers of pickers are busy. Here the London Basin with its
Tertiary sediments affords outcrops of the more recent rocks of
England. In a short time, therefore, one can review the entire geo-
logical column, by starting with the oldest igneous rocks in Cornwall,
continuing with the lower and middle Paleozoic sandstones and shales
in Devon, the upper Paleozoic limestone in Somerset and Gloucester,
followed by the Mesozoic oolites and chalk beds from thence eastward
through Canterbury to Dover, and ending with the Cenozoic clays and
sands in the environs of London. Although invertebrate fossils
needed to fill certain gaps in the study series were collected, the
information obtained for more accurate labeling and for present
studies was the most valuable result of this trip.
ANGIEING: VEANIVEMES) OF eWay Aet
Bye Cre EWS 3G ANZEN

Assistant Curator, Division of Vertebrate Paleontology,
U.S. National Museum

The 1938 Smithsonian Institution expedition to Utah undertook
principally to continue investigation of occurrences of the earliest
mammals and lizards known from the State and to make a representa-
tive collection of upper Eocene fossils from the Uinta Basin. The
party, consisting of George F. Sternberg, Harold R. Shepherd, and
myself, met on June 1 at Price, Utah, and proceeded from there to
the Uinta Basin in the northeastern part of the State. At Vernal,
Utah, we were met by J. LeRoy Kay, of the Carnegie Museum, who
had kindly offered to show us around the basin and point out the
principai collecting localities. We spent 2 days in a pleasant and profi-
table reconnaissance of the region, marred only by our becoming
mired in mud toward the end of the second day, when our host
attempted to determine the speed of a horse which was running wild.

We left the basin on June 4 and turned our attention to the Wasatch
Plateau country of central Utah. Our first camp was set up near a
delightful spring on the ranch of George Olson in Joe’s Valley.
Exploration from this point consisted in reexamining the old localities
which had been prospected by the Smithsonian party the preceding
summer and in searching for new localities of fossiliferous Paleocene
deposits. Our experiences in this mountainous country of few roads
demonstrated the necessity of using horses, especially since the roads,
though good when dry, can become impassable for hours or days after
a little rain. Weather there during the summer months is continually
unsettled.

We were fortunate in our prospecting in obtaining a much larger
representation of the fauna from the Paleocene exposures in lower
Dragon Canyon. Work in the Cretaceous of the same region was of
considerable profit in finding additional material of the large lizard
which Gilmore’s party discovered the year before. One of the lizard
specimens which we found is so nearly complete as to be worthy of
permanent exhibition in the National Museum.

On June 25 we broke camp in Joe’s Valley and transferred our
attention back to the Uinta Basin. Camp was made at a locality known
as Myton pocket, one of the well-known localities for fossil verte-

3 25
26 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Fic. 22.—Carnegie Museum and Smithsonian Institution field parties at
the Carnegie Museum Powder Springs camp in the Uinta Basin. (Photo-
graph by Thompson. )

Fic. 23.—Smithsonian field party in the Manti Forest region of Utah. Horses
were found to be indispensable in the search for fossiliferous deposits of
Paleocene age.
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1938

i)
SST

Fic. 24.—The principal exposures of Paleocene beds from which nearly all
of the mammalian material was obtained. Lower Dragon Canyon, Manti Forest,
Utah.

Fic. 25.—Operation in the leptotragulid-homacodont quarry in Myton pocket,
Uinta Basin.
28 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

brates of upper Uinta age. Carnegie Museum parties have in the past
obtained a variety of the smaller mammals from beds at this locality.
Our party was no less successful, and was particularly fortunate in
opening a quarry for remains of small deerlike animals known as
leptotragulids and homacodonts. Several weeks were spent in work-
ing the quarry, a job which was difficult, not so much in the amount
of rock removed as in the care required in taking up delicate speci-
mens from a well-indurated matrix.

The principal handicap encountered in working Myton pocket, and
other Uinta Basin localities, was the remoteness of palatable water.
Most residents in the vicinity of Myton drink water taken from the
Duchesne River, after allowing it to settle, but it was so cloudy and
distinctly alkaline that we preferred to haul ours from well supplies
in the towns of Roosevelt and Fort Duchesne.

After 5 weeks at Myton pocket we visited several localities at more
easterly points in the basin and made collections from a lower horizon
known as Uinta B. Highly important for this early fauna is the
locality known to paleontologists as “White River pocket,” a small
area of badlands near the junction of the Green and White Rivers
and not far from the Ouray trading post. Of particular interest from
this locality is the relatively rare Epihippus, a later stage in horse
development during Eocene time. At least two skeletal portions and a
few isolated jaws in our collection are believed from brief and
unsatisfactory field identification to represent this early horse.

During our stay in the Uinta Basin we had the occasional and
enjoyable company of Dr. John Clark and his graduate student assis-
tant from the University of Colorado. Since their stratigraphic
studies were carried on in the eastern part of the basin it was possible
for us to join camps for a short time during our stay in Kennedy’s
Hole. The latter locality proved somewhat less productive of paleon-
tological materials than we had anticipated, although we were much
pleased at finding a large crocodile skull and jaws. Here, and in
Coyote Basin to the south, the fossils are found principally in the
heavier sandstone lenses and one notes a greater proportion of
titanothere and rhinoceros remains.

On August 20 we broke camp in the Uinta Basin and hauled the
bulk of our collection to Price, where it was boxed and shipped, and
on August 23 proceeded to southwestern Utah to investigate a lava
cave near Hurricane, reported to contain numerous animal remains.
These proved to be of no great antiquity. The field season was
terminated at St. George on August 25.
COLES ELING HOSSHES IN hah € AMSEC S OR
NEW YORK

By G. ARTHUR COOPER

Assistant Curator, Division of Stratigraphic Paleontology,
U.S. National Museum

On July 18 the writer set out for Stroudsburg, Pa., to join
Dr. Bradford Willard, of the Pennsylvania Topographic and Geo-
logic Survey, in a study of Middle Devonian (Hamilton) strata.
After examining the section exposed about Stroudsburg, the party
continued the investigation at Port Jervis, N. Y., about 4o miles to
the northeast. Dr. Willard left the party here and the writer was
then joined by Miss Winifred Goldring of the New York State
Museum. In 1932 Miss Goldring and the writer studied the Middle
Devonian sediments of Susquehanna and Schoharie Valleys on the
north flank of the Catskill Mountains. These studies showed that
the marine sediments about Cooperstown in the Susquehanna Valley
interfingered with continental, deltaic beds toward the east, and led
to the belief that a great thickness of the Catskills facing the Hudson
Valley were of Middle Devonian rather than Upper Devonian age.
To test this belief the party undertook a study of the eastern limb of
the Middle Devonian outcrop from Stroudsburg, Pa., to Port Jervis,
N. Y., and thence nearly to Albany. In this work the writer gratefully
acknowledges the help of Mr. G. H. Chadwick, Catskill, N. Y., who
assisted the party in the difficult problems of the continental sedi-
ments west of Catskill.

With the sequence at Stroudsburg as a guide, columnar sections
were prepared of the rocks exposed along the Delaware River west
of Port Jervis; in the Neversink Valley at Roses Point; along
Rondout Creek above Napanoch ; in Stony Hollow, west of Kingston ;
and up the Kaaterskill west of Catskill. It proved to be impossible
to prepare complete sections of the Hamilton between Port Jervis
and Napanoch because thick glacial deposits in Neversink and Ron-
dout Valleys obscure the lower part of the Middle Devonian column.
Middle and Upper Hamilton strata, dipping 13 degrees to the north-
west, are well exposed from the west side of Port Jervis up the
Delaware River to Sparrowbush and are about 2,600 feet thick. This
section has many similarities to the marine sequence exposed about
Cooperstown in Susquehanna Valley.

20
‘eyes uoyluepY sJoddn surseaq-yuejd jo (,2¢) dip dooajs surmoys ‘syjey~ yuoFT ‘F ‘ose
-AvaJI Suosys AG yo (joy 0} Surddip) Surppoq Surmoys ase uoyIwePY J9MO7T] JO duOj;souM] ApURS ‘€ “syoo1
UOYIWE FY [ppt snosjIpISsO} JoA0 “yoourdeNY je Yat Jnopuoy uo sijey Jamo] ‘cz “Joof Ooo'S ynoqe
joroy, “yyoy Joddn url osnopy ureyunopy T[LYs}eD Jo jsoaM ‘sulepuMoyY [[P{s}eO Jo yuosay pean ‘1—oz “ony

INSTITUTION

SMITHSONIAN

“KN ‘TPENS}VD. JO Jsomyynos ‘sypey years) aAoqe syoor (uolIePY JUNOP,) UOPIUeF_ SNotaJI[Issoy Jo
HYD ‘hr ‘Aueqpy JO JsaMyNos ‘syoo1 URIUOADC, VIPPIPY ISAO s][Vy suOsUPypIC, “E “AlOATOSoy UeyYOYsSy 3e
slojeray ‘zc “stAdaf JOG JO JSAM JSON SYMLPZ WOI] JAR o1eMLJIM IY} UMOP suTyooT ‘I—Zz “dy

31

<
4
Z
e)
Nn
ee
_
a
a
S
=
n)

32 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Northeast of Napanoch on Rondout Creek the dip steepens to 50
degrees or more to the northwest. The lower half of the exposed
section abounds in marine fossils, but the upper half contains many
fossil land plants. Nevertheless, a thin zone of Upper Hamilton
marine fossils exposed at the top of Honk Falls gave a clue to the
thickness in this valley, approximately 3,200 feet.

The dip of the beds lessens northeast of Napanoch to an average
of about 5 degrees, and the outcrop widens. The upper part of the
Hamilton changes to unfossiliferous, red, argillaceous sandstone and
greenish, coarse or conglomeratic sandstone well shown around
Ashokan Reservoir. Between these continental beds and the lower
fossiliferous marine Hamilton rocks west of Kingston about 300 feet
of bluish sandstone or “blue-stone”’ intervene. This rock, now called
Ashokan sandstone, was extensively quarried about 40 years ago and
formed the basis of the once flourishing “blue-stone” industry.

From Kingston nearly to Albany approximately the same sequence
prevails: a lower part of about 1,000 feet of fossiliferous marine
sediments (Bakoven and Mount Marion), then 300 feet of “blue-
stone” succeeded by a great thickness of red-beds (Kiskatom) diffi-
cult to date because of absence of marine fossils.

An important part of this investigation was the determination of
the thickness of red-beds belonging to the Middle Devonian in the
mountains west of Catskill. In the absence of marine fossils, resort
had to be made to comparison with other sections. The studies be-
tween Port Jervis and Kingston showed a continuously thickening
sequence northeastward toward Albany, exactly the condition dis-
covered on the north side of the Catskills between Susquehanna
Valley and Albany. Therefore the section at Catskill must be at least
as thick as that at Napanoch, where 3,200 feet of Hamilton sediments
are known. Considerable thickening occurs northeast of Napanoch ;
hence it is concluded, on the basis of known rate of thickening that
the Hamilton beds west of Catskill are much in excess of 3,200 feet,
perhaps as much as 500 feet, putting the top of the Hamilton near the
well-known Mountain House between 2,100 and 2,200 feet.

The results of this investigation thus corroborate the findings of
1932 on the north side of the Catskills. They also show that the
marine beds of Stroudsburg and Port Jervis gradually change north-
eastward to nonmarine beds about Catskill. The northeastern por-
tion of the Catskills is a great delta deposited from old highlands
to the northeast. The delta sends out fingers of continental sediment
into the marine beds west of the Catskills.
SOME EUROPEAN ZOOS

By WILLIAM M. MANN
Director, National Zoological Park
AND

LUCIEE OO" MANN

The writers, having been given the Franklin Burr Award of the
National Geographic Society, decided to devote this money to observa-
tion of some of the European Zoos we had not seen before, and of
others where we knew that great progress had been made since our
last visit to them in 1929.

On July 23, 1938, we were in Stockholm, Sweden, and went imme-
diately to the great Skansen Park, a unique open-air Museum and
Zoo. The animal collection was limited entirely to those living in
northern Europe, all kept out of doors in naturally wooded paddocks
where unusually fine specimens of each species were on exhibition.
Outstanding were the European elks, eight of them in the collection,
including a mother with twin babies.

In Moscow we found a large park of 32 hectares, and an enormous
collection requiring a Zoo staff of about 500, including a number of
scientists and women keepers. The Zoo is 75 years old, and has been
greatly developed since 1924. Some two-and-a-half million people
visit it each year to see the very splendid collection, mostly northern
animals, but many of them of great rarity. The elephant display
includes five specimens in a very large enclosure. Among the wild
sheep were Ovis poli and fine markhors.

At Leningrad the Zoo is smaller than that of Moscow and 5 years
younger, but contains also a good collection. We were especially
interested in a black-cock or capercailye, the first we had ever seen 1n
captivity, which had been kept alive by changing its food each month
and giving it what it would find in nature with the changing seasons.

We were told that there are 26 Zoos in Russia, not including small,
temporary Zoos which are established at children’s rest camps and
contain collections of baby animals for the children to play with. One
cage that we saw contained baby lions and dingos together.

At Copenhagen a new bird house had been completed, and a large
tropical house for giraffes was in process of construction. The bird
house is especially attractive. Four years ago eight little lovebirds
(Agaporms personata) were placed in a cage and there are now 120

33
34 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Fic. 28.—Moscow Zoo: An artificial mountain, used in part as a tiger
pit. The herpetologist’s office is in a room in the highest peak.

Fic. 29—Moscow Zoo: Children may rent carts drawn by horses, donkeys or
camels, and have a race.
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1938 35

ee ne

Fic. 30—Moscow Zoo: Women keepers, as well as
men, take good care of their animals. These two are
engaged in raising sables, more than 20 of which
were born and raised in the Zoo the past year.

Fic. 31.—Copenhagen Zoo: Next best to a live whale in a Zoo is this 75-foot
skeleton of a blue whale, exhibited in the open air.

t
36 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

of them, an astonishing increase. We saw an American bald eagle
that had lived there for 55 years, and a family of European eagle
owls with two babies hatched in the park.’

The Hagenbeck Zoo at Hamburg had made a number of the im-
provements that Heinrich Hagenbeck had told us about on our last
visit 9 years ago. These included a wonderful barless enclosure where
10 elephants, of 2 species, made a great show. Twenty Patagonian
cavies run loose around the grounds. The exhibition of seals is excep-
tionally fine and includes a sea leopard from Antarctica.

Hanover, a city of 550,000 people, maintains a fine Zoo under the
direction of the Ruhes. Some of the buildings are new, and others
date back 50 years and more. King William presented a lion house to
the Zoo in 1867 and it still stands.

It would take a large volume to describe the Berlin Zoo. We lived
there for 5 days and saw something different and spectacular each
day. They had two gorillas and were raising a number of rare species.
Crested partridges or roulrouls, Heck’s Celebes ape, Gelada baboons,
black leopards, and boatbills all had young born or hatched in the
Park.

The Zoo at Nurnberg has not changed since 1929 because it is to be
demolished and an entirely new one built. The new garden is to be
55 hectares, and to cost 43 million marks at the start. We understand
that 150,000 marks have already been appropriated for the purchase
of new animals.

The Geo-Zoo at Munich, where the animals are arranged by conti-
nents, is a notable breeding establishment. Many species of native and
foreign animals are allowed to run loose in the park, and although
the number of species is not as great as in some other Zoos, the herds
in general are much larger and most spectacular.

The new aquarium is superb, and the great-ape village with its
various wings and large playgrounds for the chimpanzees, gibbons,
and orang-utans, is the last word in quarters in which to exhibit and
study these animals.

The Zoo at Zurich is only 9 years old and yet has developed remark-
ably. The animals’ cages and enclosures are arranged in terraces on
the side of a hill rising above the city. There is a good collection,
including a pair of giraffes, a new lion house, and a splendid restau-
rant building.

Since we saw the Jardin des Plantes at Paris some years ago, it has
been remodeled into a new and modern institution, with a big new

* Now on their way to the National Zoological Park.
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1938 2g)

Fic. 32—Berlin Zoo: One of a half-dozen restaurants. In this, the visitor
may obtain water in bottles from his favorite spa. It is also a popular place
to take morning coffee.

al ca
farrfn§ys

Fic. 33—Munich Zoo: In Europe the main road in a Zoo nearly always leads
to the restaurant.
38 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Fie. 34—Munich Zoo: A pair of Nubian wild asses, for some reason among
the most difficult animals to obtain. Munich had the only specimens we saw
in Europe.

Fic. 35.—Vincennes Zoo: One takes an elevator on the inside of an artificial
mountain, and from the peak, the highest point in the Zoo, gets a bird’s eye
view not only of the grounds below but of all of Paris in the distance.
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1938 39

Fic. 36—vVincennes Zoo: The open air enclosures, surrounded by moats,
make up most of the Zoo.

Fic. 37—Dublin Zoo: A rocky road im Dublin being paced by two fine
specimens of sloth bears.
40 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

lion house, a new monkey house, and a great collection of creatures.
The vivarium built by Jeannel some years ago for the exhibition of
insects, small reptiles, and batrachians, still stands out as unique.

The Vincennes Zoo, one of the newest in Europe, already contains
a large and attractive collection, including an Indian rhinoceros and
four giraffes. In addition to the exhibition areas, which are all of
the open, barless type, the service quarters have been exceptionally
well worked out.

The Zoo at Regent’s Park in London impressed us as being “bigger
and better than ever.” Innovations are “invisible glass” fronts for
bird cages, a modernistic ape house, and a special building to facilitate
the work of artists in the Zoo. Among the rarest of the specimens on

display were three giant forest hogs from Kenya—father, mother,

and baby.

The new open-air Zoo at Whipshade, where 400 acres have already
been developed and 200 acres more are ready for improvement, is
outstanding. The animals are kept in great herds in large paddocks—
20 tigers in one enclosure, for instance—and deer, pheasants, and
cavies run wild in the forest. The restaurant is like a country club.
This is the only Zoo in Europe that permits the entry of automobiles,
anda fee of 5 shillings per auto, plus 1 shilling per person, 1s charged.
It has become one of England’s most popular resorts and picnicking
erounds.

Edinburgh for many years has been famous for its penguins, and
still is. Magellan and King penguins are raised each year, and one
specimen has been in the Zoo since 1914. The Zoo itself is on a high
hill, the top of which is covered with large paddocks for herds of
ruminants. There were 11 chimpanzees and two orang-utans in the
collection and a notable collection of carnivores.

The Dublin Zoo is the second oldest in Britain, having been founded
in 1833 and maintained by the Royal Society with a grant from the
Government. It is located in the beautiful Phoenix Park. This Zoo
has always been famous for raising lions, and there is on exhibition
a plaque with the pedigree of more than 160 lions that have been born
there. Among the smaller fry there was a Tuatera lizard from New
Zealand that has lived in the Park for 27 years, a record.

In general we found every Zoo that we visited thriving and all of
them growing. In addition to the exhibiting of animals, interesting
breeding experiments are being made. In Germany, through careful
selection, are being recreated the extinct auroch and the wild wood-
horse that formerly inhabited the country.
CETACHAN  SLUDIES AN PUROERE

By REMINGTON KELLOGG
Assistant Curator, Division of Mammals, U. S. National Museum

Late in the evening of May 12, 1938, the S. S. Washington of the
United States Lines landed Mrs. Kellogg, Commander Wilfrid N.
Derby, and me at Hamburg, Germany, after an interesting trip up
the Elb River. The next morning, we were on the train bound for
Sassnitz Hafen, where a small Baltic Sea steamer took us to Trelle-
borg, Sweden. Arriving at that port in the evening, we boarded the
train which brought us to Oslo, Norway, on the morning of May 14.
Having a few days at our disposal, we visited the Norsk Folkemuseum
at Bygddy. Many old buildings, brought from various parts of Nor-
way, have been reassembled here and furnished with the handicraft,
furniture, implements, and arts of the Norwegian people during the
corresponding period. Here also, ancient Viking boats are exhibited
in a large hall. Their amazingly well preserved contents, including
among other things a wooden wagon, an elaborately carved bed, chests,
sled, buckets, and other implements are displayed at the University
Museum. The “Vi Kan” Exposition in Oslo had an exhibit of some of
the apparatus used in modern whaling, which attracted many of the
visitors. A day or so later, we were shown through the Institute for
Whale Research at the University of Oslo by Prof. Johan Hjort.
At Oslo, also, the youth parades and demonstrations on May 17, the
Norwegian National Day marking the anniversary of the adoption
of the constitution after the separation from Denmark in 1914, was
a very gay occasion for visitors and residents alike. The visit to the
well-known Norwegian whaling port, Sandefjord, arranged by the
Norwegian Whaling Association, proved most interesting. Here we
inspected some of the modern floating factory ships and a number of
recent improvements in apparatus used in whaling operations, includ-
ing the electric harpoon. At-Sandefjord is located the Kommandgr
Chr. Christensen Hvalfangstmuseum, where there is on display, along
with several kinds of whale skeletons, two huge iron oil-boiling pots
left more than a hundred years ago by an American whaler on the
Falkland Islands, many ancient types of harpoons, and other whaling
accessories.

From Oslo, we took the train on May 29 for Stockholm, Sweden.
There, through the courtesy of Count Nils Gyldenstolpe and Prof.

4 41
42 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Fie. 38.—Sod-roofed farm house in Norsk Folkemuseum at Bygdéy, Oslo.

Fic. 39.—A fleet of killer boats at anchor at Sandefjord.

Fic. 40—Three floating factories at anchor at Sandefjord.
43

EXPLORATIONS, 1938

SMITHSONIA

“IUDIIG JO JUIUTIIUCA
-py oy} JO} UOlPeLDOSsy YsHtig jo Juepisoid AOU
-10} pue ‘JstuuozeUR ‘YsLsoyodoryjUe poysinsurjsiq
‘purpsuy ‘suMOd ye oWOY sty Ssurpunotims spunosrs
uo Yoleasel pajonpuods uUIMIeq soyteyy d104M
sjods yno suyurod ‘yyoyp anyway IS—chr ‘ory

mn

2)

J
Oo

‘pure
S]JOD dt}

I

fo

suy ‘AIS

OM}

3
Oo

ule

aedas 4

JOAIUP) PAOFXGO 3e

9911S — IV “OI

44 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Einar Lonnberg, I was permitted to examine and study cetacean
skeletal material belonging to the Naturhistoriska Riksmuseum at
Freskati on the outskirts of Stockholm. In the well-arranged cetacean
hall of this museum are exhibited a fine skeleton, including complete
sets of baleen, of the now nearly extinct Greenland whale, as well as
skeletons of the southern right whale, Atlantic right whale, blue,
finback, Bryde’s whale, sei whale, little piked whale, bottlenose and
other beaked whales, killer and southern right whale porpoise. The
Nordiska Museet, with an indoor section recreating Sweden’s past
cultural history and an out-doors section, Skansen, located on a high
elevation overlooking Stockholm, which is a living museum, give the
visitor pleasant impressions of old Swedish folk life. From Stock-
holm I made a side trip to Uppsala where I was enabled to examine,
in the Geological Institute of the University, the subfossil remains ef
a whale from Graso, Gulf of Bothnia, that formed the basis for
Lilljeborg’s Eschrichtius robustus. These bones exhibited the char-
acteristic features of the present day North Pacific gray whale.

Leaving Stockholm on June 2, we traveled by train to Malmo and
thence by ferry to Copenhagen. In the absence of Dr. M. Degerbgl,
Dr. F. W. Braestrup showed me the cetacean material that I wished
to examine. The University Zoological Museum possesses an excel-
lent though very much crowded collection of cetacean skeletons, in-
cluding an adult male Greenland whale, a large male sperm whale,
an exceptionally large hyperoodon, and more than 65 mounted skele-
tons of toothed whales, ranging in size from the small harbor porpoise
to killer whales. At the Geological Museum, Prof. J. P. J. Ravn was
kind enough to show me the fossil cetaceans that had been found in
Denmark.

It was necessary for us to return to Oslo to make arrangements for
the journey to England. We left Oslo at the time the trees were fully
leaved and the lilacs in full bloom. As we traveled toward Bergen
on June 6, our train climbed gradually to an elevation of 4,000 feet,
where winter still held its grip. Not a vestige of a budding shrub was
visible, and the ice, snow, and shadows cast an unforgetable pattern
of black and white on the hill slopes. The descent from the summit
carried the train through several long tunnels. When the mist had
cleared from our compartment windows we saw pussy willows and the
unfolding buds of birch trees. We had thus witnessed spring for the
third time this year: at home before sailing, at our arrival in southern
Norway, and here once more near Bergen.

The day following our arrival at Bergen, we visited first the Han-
seatiske Museum and the restored row of old hanseatic houses along
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1938 45

the quay, facing the open fish market, and later the medieval ban-
queting room of King Hakon’s Hall which has been restored and
decorated with colorful designs by the artist, Gerhard Munthe. A
good view of Bergen and the fjord was obtained by taking the steep
funicular railway to the heights above the city. An appointment was
made with Prof. August Brinkmann to visit the Bergen Museum
late that afternoon. At least 6 skeletons of as many kinds of whale-
bone whales, and between 50 and 60 skeletons of toothed whales, of
which about 4o are killer whales, are possessed by this museum.

On the morning of June 9 we sailed from Bergen, Norway, on the
S.S. Vega and arrived the following morning at the Tyne Commission
Quay near Newcastle, England. Dr. John Beattie, conservator of the
Museum, Royal College of Surgeons, and Martin A. C. Hinton and
Dr. Francis C. Fraser, of the British Museum (Natural History),
made it possible for me to examine a series of skulls and skeletons of
porpoises in a relatively short time. To Dr. Beattie and Sir Arthur
Keith, I am indebted for the invitation to visit the research laboratory
of the Royal College of Surgeons at Downs and the home of Charles
Darwin.

Finally, we visited Edinburgh on May 29, where we were the
recipient of many courtesies from Prof. James C. Brash of the De-
partment of Anatomy, University of Edinburgh. The Anatomical
Museum of the University of Edinburgh has a larger and more com-
plete collection of Cetacea frequenting Scottish waters than any other
institution in the British Isles. This museum contains a number of
historic anatomical and osteological preparations which were acquired
during the periods of activity of Sir Robert Sibbald, Dr. Robert
Knox, Sir’ John Struthers, Dr- Willtam WDurner, and: others:. Lhe
exhibits and study collections of the Royal Scottish Museum in Edin-
burgh were shown to us by A. C. Stephen, keeper of zoology. A day
later we were back in London and embarked the following day on the
S.S. Manhattan at Southampton.

As regards kinds of whales and number of specimens representing
each kind, the cetacean collections of the British Museum (Natural
History) at London, the University Zoological Museum at Copen-
hagen, and the Naturhistoriska Rijksmuseum near Stockholm are
unsurpassed by any of the American collections. Although these
museums were visited primarily for the purpose of examining skeletal
material of whales not represented in American collections, advantage
was taken of large series of some kinds of cetaceans to appraise the
range of individual variation in diagnostic structures. These superb
40 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

and well-rounded cetacean collections have been assembled only by
close cooperation between the museums and agencies in a position to
assist with the collection of such material. Of all the European mu-
seums, the British Museum (Natural History) in London is probably
the most active at present in building up the cetacean collections.
Besides older material, some of which dates back a century or more,
this collection has been augmented from time to time by specimens

Fic. 43——Home of Charles Darwin.

received from various exploring expeditions. The British Museum
has profited greatly since 1912 by the arrangements made by Sir
Sidney I’. Harmer with the Receivers of Wrecks and with the Coast
Guard Officers for the receipt of telegraphic reports of all strandings
of whales on the British Isles. The staff of the “Discovery Expedi-
tion,’ organized for whaling research under the auspices of the British
Colonial Office, have transmitted numerous cetacean specimens, and
British whaling vessels have assisted in a similar manner.
A SEARCH FOR BIRDS AND MAMMALS
IN, KENTUCKY

By W. M. PERRYGO
Scientific Aid, Division of Mammals, U. S. National Museum

Kentucky has long remained a section whose bird and mammal life
was represented in the United States National Museum by few speci-
mens, so that it was with interest that I undertook a survey that was
to cover much of the State. Arrangements were made with Maj.
James Brown, Commissioner of Game and Fish, Department of Con-
servation, for the necessary permits, and through his kind offices we
received aid without which the work could not have been successful.

With James Cole as assistant, I left Washington on April 15, 1938,
to begin work a few days later near Brandenburg, in Meade County,
in a region of rolling hills and the level bottomlands along the Ohio
River. We remained here for 2 weeks collecting many interesting
specimens, including the Bachman’s sparrow, and various kinds of
mice.

Leaving here we went to the extreme southwestern part of the
State, near the Mississippi River, to investigate an area in the Austro-
riparian life zone at the northern end of Reelfoot Lake. Only a small
portion of the lake, or the arms, as they are locally called, extends
across the State line, but our observations gave much of interest to
supplement the material obtained last year in the adjacent Tennessee
section. Our collecting here was done in beautiful cypress swamps
and around the edges of the many cotton fields.

We moved then to Monticello to investigate the dry oak-wooded
hills of Wayne County and then, working our way northward into
Harlan County, put up in an abandoned C. C. C. camp near Cumber-
land. This gave us easy access to Black Mountain, southeast of
Lynch, the highest mountain in the State, with an altitude of 4,150
feet. Black Mountain is unlike the higher mountains of West Virginia
and Tennessee in that it lacks the typical Canadian zone, having no
spruce or balsam trees. Here, in spite of continuous rains and dense
fogs, we obtained many interesting specimens, one being a new type
of red-backed mouse. This was our first experience in catching mice
of this group in flying squirrel traps set on trees.

After 2 days’ work on Pine Mountain, in Letcher County, we
moved northeastward to Belfry, a mining town in Pike County, where

47
48 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Fic. 44—On and near base of trees where type of new
red-backed mouse was taken. Black Mountain, Ky.

Fig. 45.—Looking east from Black Mountain.
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1938 49

%
Fic. 46—The Ohio River near Owensboro, Ky.

Fic. 47.—Our camp near an Indian mound at Fullerton, Ky.
50 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

we spent the week of July 4, Cole collecting in Kentucky, while I
crossed to secure certain desired specimens of birds from Wayne,
Logan, and Mingo Counties in West Virginia.

Our work completed here, we moved to Lewis and Greenup Coun-
ties, pitching our tent beside an Indian mound at Fullerton, for work
along the Ohio River. This completed the investigations for the early
part of the season, and we returned to Washington July 15.

Accompanied by Herbert Deignan, of the Division of Birds, and
Gregor Rohwer, I left for the autumn collecting trip on September 15.
At Middlesboro we obtained permission from the American Associa-
tion Coal Company to investigate the deciduous forests covering Log
Mountain whose summit rises to approximately 3,100 feet above the
sea. We had a profitable 2 weeks here, with the birds and mammals
typical of mountains of this altitude. While here we were joined for
a few days by Dr. Alexander Wetmore.

Leaving Middlesboro on October 1, we moved to Rockcastle and
Madison Counties, collecting south of the college town of Berea. A
considerable part of this region, with an altitude of 1,000 feet, is flat
with poor drainage, forming many wet meadows. This made it an
excellent country for marsh wrens, Savannah sparrows, and many
other birds and mammals.

We moved from here to the Ohio River south of Covington, to
catch the fall migration along the Ohio and its lowlands. Here we
secured the long and short-billed marsh wrens, American bittern and
coot in the cat-tail marshes, while along the bluffs and rolling hills
near the river were various wood and field birds.

On October 15 we journeyed to Madisonville to examine the low
cypress swamp country in Hopkins, McLean, and Muhlenberg Coun-
ties. Although swamp rabbits occur here, they were scarce, and we
were unable to get any. However, we did find LeConte’s sparrows
and the prairie horned lark. The lespedeza (Japanese clover) recently
widely distributed in this county made good feeding ground and cover
for marsh wrens, sparrows, and many other birds.

The Cumberland and Tennessee Rivers which flow northward into
the Ohio River run near and parallel to each other in Trigg County,
where we spent a successful week collecting in the bottomlands. Here
we saw several swamp rabbits in patches of cane.

Our last week was spent in the cedar-covered hills and in the farm-
lands of the Mammoth Cave area in Edmonson County, and on
November 15 we were once more in Washington.
COMES ERING AURTEDS AND EISEN GE wOk TDA:

By C. R. ASCHEMEIER
Taxidermist, U. S. National Museum

Having planned a trip to Florida in February 1938, I was requested
to extend my stay there for a couple of weeks for the purpose of col-
lecting turtles and fish for the National Museum.

I arrived at Gainesville on February 21 and through the kindness
of Dr. Van Hyning, Director of the Florida State Museum, and with
the generous cooperation of members of his staff, I established head-
quarters there. I then proceeded to Cedar Key, approximately 50
miles southwest of Gainesville on the Gulf of Mexico, where I col-
iected both fish and turtles. Having on several previous occasions
visited this quaint old fishing town to collect porpoises for the
Museum, I was given valuable assistance by old acquaintances. Some
large fish, among them red snappers, kingfish, mackerel, sheephead,
and mullet were taken, mostly for their otoliths, while from the small
pools left by the receding tide several hundred smaller fish were
collected.

A rare opportunity to get some turtles easily was unfortunately
missed here. I had visited Lake Johnson to catch some large black
bass, and during my absence a fisherman, being unable to get a haul
of fish, decided to haul his seine for sliders or “‘streaked-headed
cooters” as they are called by the Floridians. He was very successful
in this respect, bringing in about 75 turtles. On hearing this I hur-
_riedly looked up the captain of the boat but found he had disposed of
the lot. Together with the proprietor of the hotel I then made a house
to house canvas for turtles and managed to get three specimens.
Sliders are preferred to chicken by many of the inhabitants; I have
myself feasted on turtle stew several times and can pronounce it
delicious. Three diamond-back terrapins were obtained at the mouth
of the Suwannee River, at which place the sliders also were collected.

After spending a week at Cedar Key I went to Tallahassee where,
with the kind assistance of my friends, Dr. Herman Gunter and a
member of his staff, Mr. Clarence Simpson, arrangements were made
which resulted in the collection of a fine series of turtles at the
neighboring Lakes Jackson and Iamonia.

The lakes of Florida are variable in origin and development as well
as in other characteristics, and during my visit I became acquainted

5!
SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

cn
bo

rah a Fete oi

ae °
Are

ore the water disappeared.

a)
nH

—View of Lake Iamonia, Fla. Taken b

Peabo Be

of Lake Iamonia, Fla., after the water disappeared.

Fic. 49.— View
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1938 53

ten ar ae. GAINESVILLE, FLA. ra

Fic. 50—Thousands of fish stranded around the “sink hole,’ Paynes Prairie,
showing how the lakes of Florida teem with fish.

Fic. 51.—Two large-mouth black bass. Taken in Orange Lake, Fla., with
artificial plugs or bait.
54 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

with what are known as “disappearing lakes” and witnessed the
disappearance and reappearance of two of them—Lake Iamonia, 18
miles north of Tallahassee, and Alachua Lake (also known as Paynes
Prairie) 4 miles east of Gainesville. Under normal conditions these
lakes of considerable area are filled with clear water and abound in
fish of various kinds. In most instances after disappearing they refill
slowly, depending upon the rainfall; some have remained dry for
years. I have seen fish lying dead by the thousand in the beds of these
lakes after the water has drained. The area surrounding these sinks is
more or less cavernous, with perhaps developed channels for a greater

etic.

Fic. 52.—The beach at low tide, Daytona, Fla.

or less distance in the subsurface limestone. Thus the small area of
surface water and the subsurface solution channels afford a harboring
place for a number of the fish and other aquatic life until such time
as the lake refills.

It so happened that during part of my stay at Tallahassee and
vicinity the weather was cool and the turtles did not show themselves
very often, but with the help of “Mose,” a local farmer, and a leaky
rowboat, I managed to collect a total of 12 turtles at Lake lamonia,
and with the cooperation of Dr. Gunter and Mr. Simpson, about 20
turtles from near Tallahassee. Altogether I obtained 28 turtles and
1,862 fish, among which were two large-mouth black bass weighing
IO pounds 2 ounces and 10 pounds 3 ounces respectively and con-
sidered very fine specimens.
Eh sR SHeWARER FiSHES OF VIRGINIA
By LEONARD P. SCHULTZ

Curator, Division of Fishes, U. S. National Museum

During 1937 and 1938 Earl D. Reid, also of the Division of Fishes,
and the author spent 4 weeks on four different trips for the purpose
of collecting fishes in Virginia. This field-work 1s preliminary to the
laboratory study of Virginia fishes. The Smithsonian Institution fur-
nished the traveling expenses for this field-work, and we hope to con-
tinue our investigations until the entire area of the State has been
explored. Collections have been made in the smaller streams and
rivers of far western Virginia, along the southern border of the State,
in the Pamunkey and Rapidan river basins, and in numerous tribu-
taries of the Roanoke, James, and New Rivers.

In Lewis Fork, a tributary of Fox Creek, near Mount Rogers,
figure 53, several small native Salvelinus fontinalis were collected. It
would have been impossible for us to have made this collection except
for the guidance of J. M. Reeves, game warden at Galax. The splen-
did cooperation of M. O. Hart, Executive Secretary, Commission of
Game and Inland Fisheries of Virginia, and of various game wardens
has made possible, and pleasant, our field-work in the State.

Two conclusions are apparent from our field-work. First, fish-life
is abundant in the upper courses of the streams in the mountainous
areas, where the bottom offers protection for fish and is suitable for
the production of fish foods. Such a stream is Crooked Creek, near
Galax, figure 54. Second, there is a great scarcity of fish in those
sections of many streams that have shifting sand bottoms, such as
Leatherwood Creek, figure 55, east of Martinsville. In other similar
streams no fish were taken by seining for a distance of half a mile.

An interesting discovery was made in the distribution of the moun-
tain sucker, Thoburma rhotheca, formerly known only from the
James River system, but taken by us in the headwaters of the Mayo
River, a tributary of the Roanoke system. Figure 56 shows one of
us seining for this sucker in swiftly flowing water. Other unique
fishes also have been collected by us, such as Parexoglossum laurae
Hubbs, known only from the New River system, a cyprinid with a
very peculiar mouth (fig. 57, A) resembling that organ in L-voglossum
maxillingua (Le Sueur) (fig. 57, B). The latter species is commonly
taken in the coastal drainage of Virginia, but not in the New River.

5

on
56 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Fic. 53.—Lewis Fork, of Fox Creek, near Mount Rogers, Va., from which
native brook trout, Salvelinus fontinalis, were taken. (Photograph by E. D.
Reid. )

Fic. 54——Crooked Creek, near Galax, Va. Many species of fish are found
in this creek because of a fair quantity of food organisms on the gravel bottom.
(Photograph by E. D. Reid.)
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1938 57

Fic. 55.—Leatherwood Creek, east of Martinsville, Va. This stream has a
bottom of shifting sand which makes food organisms scarce and in such areas
practically no fish were found. (Photograph by E. D. Reid.)

wea

Fic. 56—Seining the mountain sucker, Thobunnia rhotheca, near Stuart, Va.
(Photograph by E. D. Reid.)

OL

OL
