=
wh A s
CO ie Se
ie 4 ox
2 “Se
a } See

4 - ‘= We.

ns

7 ; pi j Bo. ‘ e9 |
¥ 7, *, iY, 2 é

ae ala: So ilien - :
i Ne wh Te We, PS

to"!
a
agi
a -.

se

i SR ie ¥ 5).
ie eee a ye we
B. ae 4 wD : os f. A . ise ~ en Vy: “ye *. = A

on mn 7
fy

Bp 7 ii 1. A pte ee ek AES, 1 et
. sieies %s e! eae ie of, ee ye gg
7 q . . Oe ‘- a) 5 Mm m ; aN oF one

7 tate a a
ef it

uxt “Tp
wi B, on ‘id 3 a
ne bed 3h pe id ie
Ww) Fee be es Shi a 3
“Bt spt od - "6 a Bi oe
5 4B; Cul Ge, ty Ye. ii Cae A
ae oe es Op ig Se eee
ns ie ie, Te Spe eon i D
ue “ak ie a 6) yee ae .

on ia; i a Ape hi ie ey 8
ye aye ayy as oe age tat a
hi ou ia ies aw ee 0 Bie 4 : ig ‘
cs ge ae aya ope oy ip RB ¢ et ae ble Po: We, } al vi ye %
m iol "he fe fy Be oy My ad bag ede re “i a ie i “ye Wa be ee Be
aye Oy ye We ie ape ine Bi jes " ee ee 2 ye ty wi ee
bw, oe TT

we ye oe » Ea |
nf ee ee ee
wR oy wee AP We it bes ye _ <i be Bis . ;
Wi I we By

- ine
Ye oto
an. “at a? %,

“Yeo Lhe Whe
igh Wie ee y ‘ cy es D sis

=

mi BB ah im, ys i Wh; aes ae
yi a te Oe te Wo Yar tpt
®s al Gi’ tea Hes Tey Yas Ho Jie
tye oe aie jg hy as t ik Spt
Be "ey a int ae ay re, #4 * x
ite by 98 i WS
ih Bie ae a “wt .
ee iG We

ett
tnd

Bets
PE Lat ated
Fy be PO Re Rh ae aw belt
nny

ah ee em

¥ (
ie Ma a he oe
7g Ohad tte he

eer

et Dee
¥ Page ee

Cri tckae)
te Peg 48)
+

ee rh ry
sh deritengre
AME mat

of
Pyne mee

or eee
he hry ae
in

or
c dergesyts
‘

eae
Mae (e Hs Wits

SUMMERS
shite bette}
ane

>
ber

nt}
peas \

mete
Cede
dre ROPE?
hoe eat)
+4408 9°
ee!

“
em) ry

ae jrze Longegs s stan at ®
Heer oe eae ae ane oT Me

7
e :
4a)
4
ieee i

4
Lb eee
ke

4 er bE a eee TD

Sohhe ye feat
age ans oe ee
4 pe be ta ae ta)
fo 28 ee AE
1 ok ee

¥
ye

‘Me
me

af
Ao
ee
te
age hip
dol eae

hat

pe
y

A an *
oh arwed Awe
Rierprirl Ata

ube >)
1 Mat lde at

Parity
v4 3) dz AL es here

if)
sa ee emt
aud’

4

he oc ep eet Ae hy thn 4 OF 18S ws yh Ge The ds 2
PDT Hake Sieh Ege Ja OMT FL? fm Phere
ba vega La we UPN Oe Opt 9 DY

Roe ottt

r’ Leds eps ant one 19

Wf, PP ah he Hah MODs eh te ep b aE IE £9
boat Seek be be

VM WOES hope be or he ae bs
ah

Hor

C
te athe Sa pF
Col ths baeahet
rhe pay hive mute
belek yale
otters
Prem eng@et o- biaee ba be eb te
Dee »
i yeted ba dames
Popo
YY o
Dead bbateke iT] pre te
Te PLE te he nd
* fed

Paslahetece hey ve
Rene ob! ot ye.
haved hie aoe Fe Phe ESET RE He:
Seer papesad: dt ot eept hs a4 tf OPE
esriringey HG oar
ome meee

of

rhe hay
* ee ar atorie a he}
Lh igh eh a Be Ps ee.
Atay HAW aR att
108s q » 2
vue) NH tye psig gat 4
file Terie ae teh ete te
aay heh PRE hr eth as Oe fad oe hy 08 V8 ped
yasHeratet 42 Fane

ve

Toy,

hens
ot
aces aide Ts
yt enht oui ae
onan te
Moe)
4 Ae REMI RY
tras ys ie tt ie oh
ery as@rmeat ands
Jes Bo eede pea8
noe ne e¥

fad pk ee
wah og

Patel tae
nae be Le Pe MOORS set
sea beanen
2 Y f)
Abide
ohn be Or)

teers bade

.
5
mervetebntt ti
he tebe ins
Ly
Mier ei Te

Fie be be th
noror eh ts te

ated:
aoe

ya eve oe
saitne Yad
as nest

‘po Go tals QA hv

to

ve yan pe
eo athe Lemar
beherr tes a poke h tay
rey hie
F nee
ached

etic
Tins
+90) Fa dn heee ®
Soh pe be Pad? je teen
Mo eeies peor bree’
State eke 7 at
want be
wee

4
45 Saba pa h@te

ARTS tS?
eee 4 Se HM

4 Ne hele palpate cette he

Vevey a V Hhe aH dove anette

Aoter ier yet iitcat tebe
ore) teas asad
4

oat ba bean eat
CeCe
ye Asie roe

J
rates
cag

sf ng Byte

ine area Dy

Ls betgt ye Rettets i ree

4 ote oe spear

er Rory asset Ba

a. “yy te cede oer

ERT Qua deeb

me eps > ea

eh oa ydaarge eke
Sentte ets

=

bree wy
i we

Tisde ee

TiTiiestete

at nae
Som 902 1tRe BL
44 Wa) nen by ange bow

oer
oy nd
ie

tate & 3h 2,
tN Orato
Seite eds

¥r a
ve Wemebenh
«hae at

paige eae fe
fSeae te

fae ee
dae: anes

nt
‘6 arnt
e

eee ie
*
Deady
oe pe yt

je yetes vey thay ICY

anne gh A Dat Haat
156. seth ey
ipieay be

2 pai
4

Pipi tat,
Sie aera

batt)

wine

Py ata ane
Syne eee
ry

ee he
ny oho
rhe tt aks Ad
¥ 08 Be

vp

a
ue

spa daar

:
enoe ye, 20eF .

irate:

heleir avast»

va ye belie fe IMLS
pyran re
+08

oe 4 4 bh eet te

Total alyts)

re ®
Pet pt ares de

aly;
iehatadse
ee

+
she ode

batriatehy nL
’ ber

ated Ae’
eres whe ne
lan or oe

Atae mpeertcet fre
Eb. ry CT As
1 F RP A
ves
Wane btatyt
: phone

Py atyee
WAR redal
Det)

*

ya by eee
deeper

i
ik ee
ei

f
aid
a

«
+e
we

2 he

aga ae aes
Y ike

Mina gua yt
ROOT kbd

are

ri}
hy

yes aY
bare eS Oe
Peewee.

2 ry

eee
vo!

ay
sis

Labatt anne a
* aim on 29

wi
ay)

adrect woe: ayy

Gite
ee beatowwe ty.

vt
an os a
faker

eg: pecien ys

oni RM
hota he bere be

Dee my

vs (M

eees:
sisecce

2

<7

oY CM att tet tated

o"

eh v8 yan

st unwnge
eae
ade ates eee
pti

&
he be aS

oat wren OT Rt &

mat
elely 05

ir
Bandra
Neuen
ye

me:
Ht bebe

.
<

tes,
z
ebtet nts
¥.
53

oP
hme
ir

ny
ieee

rE GW Clu
7 are
vat 4 aetes

ite
betitn

oe it ae es

ore
wit
z Oe abs
* aihers
Se NG
Stet
My *
iSpareinon pana pe tb
arse maee Y Si g
Serge

eet
ees

a ped ath aay ‘|
idulae sins

ti
Bi
sake’
cath
pap

<%

E

ts

terse te?
sts?
Siete]

trey ALA
wk oe
rely

rhe

tj
.

Le

= ty
<2%>* =
g2taixize

=

ESS

£3

Es

te: aS
ech

=
=.>

ye seane
ta

<
3

=
35:

=.

«t

%.

ct
“=

StS.
co2e5

4

os

aad

zy

tals

U
bebabatett toh
ahi
ye

Prey tett ns

habe!

pret

a

i Pudiy bebe!

oo Prd
Weave

etl
Ole

os
Be

ater

rom) | iii | if Se why 1d haat ef os, © i | paws Pel da Ae da a tlie | || | | | |i i it
tet) bac 3 ieee MALT LT zi i ors gyeees ev: VOU ve yee ss ooatetittl
» ELT, a” aa span’! SP hap, hash oe re tli eeobahp abel well uw ec hldd TLL
RET ., eer ‘Nii’ AWC tamer Dhdhd Liat ai ETT EL TY
iil Yetyy Het TPA | : ad eh Pitas) | neh lane v6
cd wget Mey a os v apres i, £ apt

ais Aay Me Uy Ne “beuee eevee POTTTTE TT ss

tl | & = ob '
~ pat Wee SS AA J ve Ane ‘ Pg Wrenn, veal me was

ve bo
duly 2 ert Ls YARNS ah

Way TCH hi ee bel AL en ne 5 Pees Wer LL LN
a Ve, Pee eb W\, ANG ey VOTE Og Lad WOU UE 4 Dae y ppp qe
ty a) fers, AA | “© U > s'. wre ' \ ht ee Sasa eg “te uy" MALY
A. WA Lobe Pap sd Pd Stee Witty atrrneucweVe cee ere Wier
~~ . | oe “en 1 ae ‘ 1 a ; i oe “ — gw \ Fa 7 7
A re hed wre = uae ’ Ani w. 0 thal euwene a ad y Ge i err SUrvy ~ wares in Wry Pint att ry
way lvieweet | | See Tete mony rive vyar”
WR bok Al : bie Wes bad Be eiae ww ( nyiiyer’ 5
I Avy = Fe Belo cc eens LAH pile | a
: TEE EETTT aS su mten th Se ehhh Pearce ant
4 \ VU > val y fe is wa ww oe ‘iver a . th)
A | wevovey ; =v @ g . => we |
i id (9 Wy | 1\\ soe e ete Weygyer:
¥ * Set ‘
ine yeti Trew be iy Vail ha SHTSSUG WWateumeses pce LLY fs ans) mA tr wail
: o°Cuwy’. Mn ie aut ey}: ‘ye sia Fe NE ih Oe ot S i ig

id .y a A, w itt dt
eatin aeiec es Coat UNDE ETTDE LTE
SUNT uMecarcscejeie Ceeerente ott

+ ‘WUre wr” A tale i eee
WAL Nhe ‘

wt Nat “ary ap % 2 : © ; Ves
“by May au vgn torre vane fl hs let | wa ETT ve trol wee

“ee wu

iy wv, i: : w “5 : es a ee +
Ldn af Pa 8 ; ha) ¥ bad Vy baad PAT my ™) Oe Pic we , ; _ ah. * euy
wn ates uay™ Uy y ‘ Ay ~T i ' v me Ds =< te@ 4. ATS whcee ks bs : 7e pV! E | io 1) hhdaeer LD

¥,.
eee. th 1% tas ‘ BS eesc wae he | pe
Cin Se wwe ge, GUE Berea! 2u\ dy, Be ee OSS atte ee ee Se : |
ay Oe Ge bag at ee , ae Bat BES ine oad

Prppprntities |! ||| | oy PeULSESULL, !
Sate NA ts = re THT . - sesanal
cA Vvwie' 4 1 bbded ewes PEELE HELL Ey vpbay” e

TTT aieraerenel | 1111

sttnnenatt ®t
as @ ut
ree atime h 5 VU) Sinn BSS E LV Lp Nae co ber Were tnae aneetgen ML, A
T ™ \ om tom st de _ SSIS UF "ey 9 died
wert: ei Sal ttt ne weie MAL CUT eye | Shel rey yh 4 wT Cen: aD | |
ddd belt bt pA AJ) pbtatoed | | AN : iveey ad BELVy pcb ~veutebyy? eel Leeks
Were yl ey si sh ws eta yt arate Mi ert NA MALE |
eA MAA Le OCU EEE PEELE NV oud k AANA Ee tre Cee,
BO CEL tw wy AAS i sew [YT “e Hu ye Lan act rh \; \ af Nw waar
Ore in STL EE TL aun ’ Nee UU |
ANY hah wus we eae oS aft Hill Gay (aye aaah a aytt
' \ : 2 SEU eee v tar — weet ff
yatta : | LIT CARA, Wuley praeea rd AI | TT dt |
¢ AW chi 8 ae | | Srabatat POR, tA ee AT Vee ce “3 hg
FETT ETL U1) NAPA saad ot aadad UI SH
Vg ° . Mow ee “feyd | one 4 es eer
Bani oth dea | Ny w | ts Wis tree eis we Ee CRAG oun cy rage | ) 3
44: ww a Mente wept) bi 1) 4 / Wakes: Al PM) | oNe ee sie TANNA TH pases ited La:
. bt AI a RA Shh | | PEELE aha TSE
wwe? i —w~ ded rr ‘ mn We vey | A Bet
1 ee eet Nay Ma Pet aesaliel Ba isle saris PU ae
cue: ; y J BLE a id ; AAS ; nae THY Rass. DAL SHARE The RL
EOL Ma Lad PMA T Ty ATEN Me LT Si iiy
Yh LN wee oe ba wll mity.. wang teting a | Wessel Nee 5 in). ARAL? Ld 4 ba ty
Weey, | Wy My : wt oy Beal try aay aeuye Ler -~ CC ShE ) Wika Ltt atef
i Wyk ‘ Nad es |! be by wig "Viy SOUS ip ch} ers fe] 1) TELL IM Tr nee “f le la? een = ine s
yt bee vir Wain Vien PSR pier beets 111 LO eh A es hd
+ Ad ht || ay me va LN add (Uh 5 a "Theta | bs a wi git
ns © w a f e od
TiN "Ure uN ave hag My TOO WNL TO | || nee eve oul seg eaQyee vi acoag eer teentty
meant ay - Oar) vey, tine aren | mor ure ey tt

Abi a [ais
ow MURS 1 uh ML cone ee LY done) a atall
SL AA Pd, ~ ides
ae A

i Yo APs
APO Ay Wee
ar ‘ ri 3)

, a LAN
ita

5 i ay
; hs
¥" oe ae i

=

aA ss

OH

SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS

VOLUME 72, NUMBER 15

EXPLORATIONS AND FIELD-WORK OF THE
SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION
IN 1921

cane”
eae INC,

RS OE ic ay
BS. 3 g2cEANo'o.4

P>*
Oder
3

CITY OF WASHINGTON
PUBLISHED BY THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION
1922

Q ‘SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS |
VOLUME 72, NUMBER 15 _¢ Vv) 74,19 S¢ v.76, 70 107 )

EXPLORATIONS AND FIELD-WORK OF THE
SMITHSONTAN INSTITUTION
IN 192];-19 232

eee

Xf if Sty tuys

(PUBLICATION 2669) c 2 7Il, (' 2 PAA IG) )
4

At tele ye:
lone! Muse

GITY OF WASHINGTON
PUBLISHED BY THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION
1922 (7% +43
The Lord Baltimore Mreas

BALTIMORE, MD., U. S. A.
CONTENTS

PAGE
Ilsa\( inte oUt NiO) CIN eN ods eo cio oc NGE ROS CrcRoes ICCC IRR ee RP are eee ech Cnr eer e e I
Geolosical Explorations in) the (Ganadian) Rockies. ....4....56-.7+s2see- I
Paleontological Field-Work in the United States...................000%. 22
mstrophysical Field-Work in Arizona and! in’ Chilej........-.52..-..0+-s 30
Botamicale expeditions tomtie Orientass soso siete cen eae nen 33
Biological Exploration ini the Dominican Republics. .2....0.-+--+-..5+20 44
lESqursrnnvemey abel alStsaltny mole cao Coco momkie cl asec onmned teem ootid ac cen cman 47
Entomolooicallsaxpeditom torAlaskaden ssmereriincmeiae ascites reece se 52
Archeological Field-Work on the Mesa Verde National Park............ 64
Archeological Collecting in the Dominican Republic..................... 83

Archeological Reconnaissance of the Cahokia and Related Mound Groups. 92

Archeological Investigations at Pueblo Bonito, New Mexico............. 106
Archeological Field-Work in South Dakota and Missouri................ 117
Field-Work on the Kiowa, Pueblo, and California Indians................ 125

Archeological Field-Work on the Susquehanna River, Pennsylvania...... 127
BXPLORATIONS AND, FIELD-WORK OF THE
SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION IN 1921

INTRODUCTION

The exploration and field-work conducted by the Smithsonian In-
stitution is one of the means employed for the “ increase and diffusion
’ the purpose of the Institution as stipulated in the
will of James Smithson, its founder. Attention is directed whenever
possible to regions which have previously been imperfectly explored
from a scientific point of view, and during the seventy-five years of
its existence, the Institution’s field parties have been able to make
notable additions to existing knowledge as well as to provide vast col-
lections of biological, zoological, and anthropological material for the
exhibition and study series of the United States National Museum, a
branch of the Institution.

During the past year, the effectiveness of the Institution’s limited
funds for this work has been so reduced by the prevailing high costs
that it was not possible to take part in as many expeditions as is
customary. The more important of those which did take the field are
briefly described in the present pamphlet, which serves as an announce-
ment of the results obtained, many of the expeditions being later
treated more fully in the various series of publications under the direc-
tion of the Institution. The photographs here reproduced were for the
most part taken by the field-workers themselves.

of knowledge,’

GEOLOGICAL EXPLORATIONS.IN THE CANADIAN ROCKIES

The geological work by Secretary Charles D. Walcott in the
Canadian Rockies was in continuation of that of the field seasons of
1919, 1920, for the purpose of securing data on the pre-Devonian
strata of the Sawback range in Ranger Brook Canyon, and a recon-
naissance of the pre-Devonian formations to the northwest as far as
the headwaters of the North Fork of the Saskatchewan River, Alberta.

The season was an unusually cold and stormy one. The party
started with a pack train from Banff, June 30, and returned September
30. During this period there were 35 stormy days, 28 cloudy and cold
days (20° to 45°) and more or less snow fell on 20 days in August and

SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS. VOL. 72, No. 15
Fic. 1.—Panoramic view from south side of Saskatchewan River looking west up the river toward Mounts Outram (10,670') and Forbes (12,102) ; Glacier Lake canyon, and on right across the North Fork, Survey Peak and unnamed mountains to the north.
Locality: The view is from a point about 47 miles (75.2 km.) northwest of Lake Louise Station on the Canadian Pacific Railway, Alberta, Canada. (C. D. Walcott, 1921.)
Y ce

-

7 ° 7
oo
a a
on -
‘5
.
-
1
a ’
i 7"
,
: :
ty
oy oD ’
,
’
. ae
'
: we
;
=
pags :
ed
a
=
i
- a
—_— me
y _
"
, an
1
7 J
: — i
/ ” a
-
’ 7
oO
wi)
=
CIZOL ‘WOIVAA “CD SII PuB “AP) “BpRUB) ‘RyIoq;y ‘Aemyrey oyloeg UvIpeUe) ay} UO UNIS asInoy] ayry] jo
JSvayJAOU SUT] Ue ue UL (‘WY QT) SopiU Sg aye] s9yxVq Jo ysvo A]POIIIP Spi MOT B UO SEM BIdUIRD dT, -CYDIOT

‘JYst1 oy} uo urejyunop Jeyeq pure ‘As[eA MOG ssO19e dURISIP UL Syvag Uday, IY} ! (4sea) FFE]
: ; ASS v3 pe ee
dy} UO asueY YORGqMeS oy} JO souojsouN] URTIquIey 1sddqQ peusanjdn YUM Yooly Jayeq uUMOP YINos Suryooy—z ‘yn]

COLLECTIONS

OUS

tLLANE

MISCI

SMITHSONIAN

N
(‘1z61

‘

WOSTBAN "Gl = s

ITT DUP ‘ATAT)

‘epeuey ‘eliodaiyv ‘AeMITeM OUIDeT UPeIDeUeD 9U1 UO UOTNRIC JSINO'T

Fic. 3—Up
Southeast s

Locality:

}

4.

Fic.
Locality:

Thi
Fic. 3.—Upturned Devonian, Ordovician, and Cambrian strata southwest of Badger Pass, at head of Cascade Creek and northeast of canyon of Johnson Creek.
Locality: Southeast side of canyon leading up from Johnson Creek to Badger Pass in Sawback Range. Position of camera about ten miles in air line east of Lake Louise Station
on the Canadian Pacific Railway, Alberta, Canada. (C. D. Walcott, 1921.)

Oe ok — e+ oe:

Fc. 4—Thompson Pass on Continental Divide. Mountain on south (left) Mt. Rice (10.745’), and on north (right) Mt. Bryce (11,000’) and glaciers.

Locality: Thompson Pass about 63 miles (101.3 km.) northwest of Lake Louise Station on the Canadian Pacific Railway, Alberta, Canada. (C. D. Walcott, 1921.)
7

Shree

ae

+s

ry &:: J
AE ee «

is

+
sD ott Digi b =e

Me wt

; Pm = : :
hy i ee
» »
7 ~ Pe
ti -: P's ~
: ~~ -
ae
as! : 7 Bones
:
& «? e; i a
P =
i 4 7
a
i
i
os ae
3 ’
a «
.
> age - j
7 '
. ; ee
®
en
17 *
7 *
) Lan 7 - .
i
it ~
a) «
‘
jase :
* : 7
° a
L

en ee es a i Os ens Con nr
bi =

.

td
1921

EXPLORATIONS,

SMITHSONIAN

(‘1z61 ‘OTe AA -C “OD SAIN pue Af) ‘“epeuer) ‘eVloq VW ‘ABMILBY OYLOV ueIPeURy 94} UO UOT}EIS dsInoT

aye] FO ysvoy}soU (‘wy gg) Sot Sor Node JATY 199q_ Ppey FO proy ay} FO apis You JY} WOIF Udye} Mor A 1XQUDIOT
‘sado]s Uto}sSva 19MOT UO SOUOJSOUNT UPIIquIe) pur URINAOPIQ) YPM “SHITO Joddn wWaAo0f SoUOSOLUT]T UBIUOAD(]

“JUST ay} uo sse[ shod ay AA pue ey 94} uo ssepsnoq, sprjq YIM ‘yqiou ay} Wort (,S10'11) Ssvpsnocq ay Vel 9) a

(‘Iz6I ‘ooeM ‘Q'D ‘SAIN pue spy) ‘epeuey ‘eyasquy ‘Aemprey oyloeg ueipeues oy} UO UOT}e}G ASINO'T aye] JO
svoyIOU (“WY Q’OI) Safiw SOI ynoqe JOANT Joaq Peay JO peay sy} JO apis YOU dy} WOT, dye} MAIA 2 Ay1YIOT

N

IN “TO}P] oy }1OJSIP pue ayduins95 O} SP OS ase UPIOTAODP.AC)
5) 10 UeIUOAIC] jo SoUO}SIUIT] Ayeys pue peppered uly} jo sseul ®& JSUIRSe (puey JUSI1) JSIOMUINOS oy Wott PI910 Ff Uda]
2 sey 9U0 SOUT] UeTIqUIe’) Jodd jo peq pb esee! eG YoryM suoje ULeJUNO TY 1dqsAqy jo puso Uj1ou uo qe SHAY [—'9 “OTST
WY)

Zi

‘e)

I

FA

a

4

4

©

iS)

io)

©)

oe)

ea}

<

a

=

Zz.

<

ie)

n

a

YN)

(‘1z6r Woe “GC ‘D) “epeuey ‘eysoqry ‘Aemjrey oyloeg uelpeued) ay} UO UOT}e}S asInoyT oye]
JO Jseoy}IOU OUT] Te UB Ul (WY QL) Solu Sg aye] Joye FO jsva A[}OIIIP 9Splt MOT & UO SeAA BIOWIRD BY, AY DIOT
‘(,o1S'6) ulejUNoPY 310, (JOT) J WIZ Ssotoe pue (,090'01) YRIg URSIWIIeg ‘UIeJUNOP [Isso.t Jo Yoeq °(,$$96) ure}y
-uNOP ISSO. JYSII uO pue (,0z'Z) ureyuNoy Jaye Ie] ay} UO “aYAeT] Jaye JIAO }sOM SUIYOOT MOIA DWIeIOUeG—Z “DIY

SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1921

NO. 15
6 SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VOL. 72

September. While on the trail 30 camps were made, but owing to
weather conditions and to the fact that the snow remained on the slopes
and cliffs above timber line, a relatively small amount of productive
work was accomplished.

The section studied near the head of Ranger Brook Canyon of the
Sawback Range about 12 miles (19.3 km.) northwest of Banff, was
from the base of the Devonian limestones down through the post-
Cambrian (Ozarkian) Mons formation and the subjacent Lyell and
Sullivan * formations of the Upper Cambrian.

Fic. 8—Camp on the lower eastern slope of Fossil Mountain looking north
toward the head of Red Deer River.

The character of the formations is indicated by figures 2 and 3,
which show the southwesterly slope of the highly inclined beds (45°
to 70°) and the saw-tooth-like effect caused by the unequal rate of
erosion of the massive bands of limestone and the softer, more friable
sandy and clay shales. Towards the northwest end of the Sawback
range at the Red Deer River the Black and White Douglass mountains
stand high above the surrounding ridges. (Fig. 5.) Oyster Mountain

*See Exploration pamphlet for roto, Smithsonian Mise. Coll., Vol. 72,
INOs 1, 1020) p» 15:
1921

EXPLORATIONS,

SMITHSONIAN

ue 0} Sutjurod st

Hoe “SAIN

“IOALY

“SaT[eA dy} sAOqe YSIY SuLIvos a[Sva
Idd] PeY FO ssoyeMpevay ay} OF oye] Joye MOOG WOAF YIIOU SuLyOO]—6 ‘SIT

8 SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VOL. 72

(fig. 6) has been cut out by erosion from the limestones between
Douglass and Fossil mountains, and figure 6 illustrates the crumpling
of shaly limestones by thrusting of a series of massive limestone strata
against them during the period of displacement of the great series of
formations of this part of the Cordilleran ranges.

Fossil Mountain, named from the presence of Devonian corals, is
about 9 miles (14.4 km.) northeast of Lake Louise Station and faces
Baker Creek Pass on the east. It has a good section of Devonian and

Fic. 10—Wild flower camp on northwest side of Johnson Creek Pass.
(Mrs. Mary V. Walcott, 1921.)

pre-Devonian rocks on its eastern slope. There is a fine outlook from
camp at the east foot of the mountain.

The broad U-shaped valley (fig. 9) between Fossil and Ovyster
mountains has been eroded in the shale and thin bedded limestones
that pass beneath Fossil Mountain; this formation is one of those in
the Sawback Range that is readily worn away, with the result that the
agencies of erosion followed by the glaciers have made a valley al-
together disproportionate to the present erosion agencies, water, frost
and snow.

At a camp in the heart of the Sawback Range on a tributary of
Baker Creek leading up to Johnson Pass there was a wonderful
NO 5 SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, IQ2I 9

exhibit of wild flowers in bloom. Mrs. Walcott counted 82 species
within a short distance of the tents. A spring-fed pond supplied camp
water ; dead pines and spruce, firewood; and a grass covered snow-
slide slope, abundant feed for the horses.

The moss pink (fig. 11) and the beautiful Dryas octopetala were
very abundant, but heavy frosts in August killed nearly all the plants
and few of the flowers went to seed.

On our way north we crossed over Pipestone Pass and down the
Siffleur River. Clearwater River heads in glacial gravels on the east
side of the Siffleur about two miles north of Pipestone Pass. Figure
13 is a view looking west through the Clearwater Pass and across to
the high cliffs on the western side of Siffleur Canyon.

Twenty-five miles further to the northwest at the point where the
south branch (Mistaya Creek), the middle branch (Howse River),
and the north branch unite to form the Saskatchewan River, there
are some beautiful and instructive views of the surrounding mountains.
Figure 1 (frontispiece) is a fine view of the head of the river, with
Howse River in the left background and the North Fork beyond the
island on the right. The Mount Forbes massif on the left is a superb
mountain mass and in the distant center is Division Mountain at the
head of Glacier Lake Canyon which we visited in 1919; on the right
Survey Peak and beyond two unnamed points. The Glacier Lake
section of the pre-Devonian and Upper Cambrian formations was
studied on the northern slopes of the Mount Forbes massif as illus-
trated by figure I (frontispiece) of the Smithsonian exploration
pamphlet for 1919,’ and the rugged cliffs and peak of Mount Forbes
are shown by text figure 14 of the present number.

Twelve miles northeast of Mount Forbes the cliffs of Mount
Murchison (fig. 15) rise high above the dark forested slopes and
present a view of the Devonian and pre-Devonian formations that is
unequalled in all this region of peaks, cliffs and broad canyon valleys.

Opposite Mount Murchison on the north side of the Saskatchewan,
Mount Wilson (fig. 16) presents another section of the pre-Devonian
formations, the upper end of which is a massive white quartzite formed
of the sands of the beaches over which the Devonian Sea deposited
thick layers of calcareous sediments abounding in the remains of
corals and various invertebrates of the time. On the west, Mount
Wilson rises directly above the North Fork of the Saskatchewan which
here flows through a narrow picturesque inner canyon (fig. 17).

Smithsonian Misc. Coll., Vol. 72, No. 1.
IO SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VOL.

is)

NI

Fic. 11—Moss pink in Johnson Creek Pass.

Fic. 12.—Dryas octopetala below Johnson Creek Pass.
Mit

(‘oz61 ‘HOIeM “CG ‘D) ‘epeuen ‘eyoqry ‘Aemjrey oyloed UvIpeur) dy} UO UOT}ILYS asInoT 9yxeT oy} FO
}SOM (ZI Y}IOU oul] Ue UL UT (WY QE) Sopiut Iz ynoqge st UOKUe) JOATY TOJBMIVI[D JO pRay ey} Je optaArp oy, /A72/DI07T
‘sseg ouoysodig JO you (Wy Ze) salu c ynoqe a1v YIM ‘syIoT UCLIqUIE) OLPPHNL JO SIO Ysry
ayy 0} UOAULD JOATY AMIYJIS ssorse WOAURD) JIATY JoWeMIBT) FO peey oy} YySnosy} dn paemysam suryoo[—etl “oy

EXPLORATIONS, 1921

SMITHSONIAN

NO. 15
' (6161 HOMEM “CT *D SAN pueapy) “epeuey ‘epioqyy ‘Aemprey oytoeg uvipeurs ay} uo UOI}R}S asino7y] ayvT
JO JSoMI1OU CUY B94) Sait gh ynoqe ‘ayxvy] ssfoR[H aaoqe yeag Aaaing jo adoys ssddn ay} WOT, St APPROOT ay]
ASTRA UOAUBT) IPT JOBE) FO PUS JaMO] 9Y} Sso1de SuIyxOO] ‘yJIOU ay} WIZ UVES se saqio, JUNO;W—'TFI 3) 0 ae

SCTIONS

COLLI

OUS

LLANE

MISCI

SMITHSONIAN
13

1921

EXPLORATIONS,

SMITHSONIAN

J

=)

(1z6I 91072 ‘Q ‘D ‘SIN pure ‘JV) ‘“epeued *
ueIPeURD dq} UO UOT}L}S asInoT aye] WOT} JSAM

AI UPMOYI}eASeS IY} JO apis YOU ay} Wor] (

4

OOSsim) hu

elioquy ‘Aem[Iey 9
fiou (uy z°$Z) satu Zp ynoqe jutod & WoOIZ St MOA oY, SApIDI07
“OTS

LOSTYIIN GY JUNOT —

Hed

“CT

}

in Seite

with

VOL; 72

COLLECTIONS

OUS

ELLANE

MISCI

SMITHSONIAN

14

‘QUO}SOUNT URIUOAIG, Y4Aep Aq
padded ozizjrenb uosyi A JUNOP, dy} JO powsOF 91e YYSII oY UO SYD runs sy fT “YIOos ay} WOAF UOSTI AA JUNOJY—OI “OT

C1z61 “‘}oIJBM “C ‘D ‘SAIN pue ay) “epeuey ‘ezsaqry ‘ABMIILY

SYPeT UeIPBURT) oY} WO MOBS asInoTy aye] wosf Jsamyjsou (wy g/) sapim Seb jnoqy /AQ1DIOT
“UOSTIM JUNOPYT pseMO}j seo Sulddip sauojs
-aluty ApeySs uvliquiey sodd~) ae syoor oy, “(AAR ASMOFT) YIO PIPPIN 94} YIM sozrun Y410.47 YON 34}

JTOYM JIAO EB ( “ULY Ol) OpTur o9u0 ynoqde JIATYY UPMOIYIJEYSCS ot} jo IOV UJION oy jo S][e.J— ZI “OTH

Lo)

1921

<PLORATIONS,

ED

MITHSONIAN

SS)

VOL. 72

=CTIONS

COLLI

OUS

4

LLANI

4

MISCE

SMITHSONIAN

16

‘epeuey ‘eioqry ‘Avmpiey oyloeq ueIpeurdy ay} UO UOIIe}S asInoT aye] JO samyjsoU (‘wy t'gg) satu SS pur
TOATY URMOIIBYSES 94} JO YOU (“WY CIT) saytur Z jnoqe YIOY YON oy} JO sey JIAII ay} WOIZ aye] MatA 24210207
‘or “By Aq UMOYS SB ‘uIeJUNOUL ay} FO apIs }sBayZNOS ay} JO asoy} are se YON AIDA soUO}saUIT]
urIuoAa Yep Aq paddes oie sy ay, “WOSTIAA JUNOW JO aSpr4a ysOU ay} JO YuwUNs dy} Ye syTO d}IZWILNG—I “DL

NO: 15 SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1921 167)

The trail up the North Fork follows the bed of the river most of the
way to its head beneath Wilcox Pass. The same is true of the trail
up the west branch called Alexandra River, and its northwest exten-
sion named Castleguard River, by the Interprovincial survey of the
boundary between Alberta and British Columbia. Near the union of
Castleguard and Alexandra Rivers there is a fine view of the peaks
along the Continental Divide and Alexandra glacier. On one of the

Fic. 19—Mount Wilson and glacier from the southeast, with the eastern
section of the broad syncline, of which Mount Wilson is the western section, on
the right.

Locality: View taken from south shore of Saskatchewan River about two
miles (3.2 km.) east of Mistaya Creek and 47 miles (75.2 km.) northwest from
Lake Louise Station on the Canadian Pacific Railway, Alberta, Canada. (Mrs.
Mary V. Walcott, 1921.)

misting days of early September a photograph of Alexandra glacier,
Queens Peak, and Mount Alexandra was taken from the river bed
and is reproduced as figure 20.

Castleguard River heads in a deep, rather broad canyon at the foot
of the Castleguard glacier. Thompson Pass is on the southwest and
high barrier ridges on the northeast. On the summit of the latter
great terraced buttes occur with narrow side facing the line of drainage
(fig. 21). These outlying buttes are formed of the alternating hard
COLLECTIONS

OUS

cLLANI

MISCE

SMITHSONIAN

(‘1201 “}OOTR AA “CG ‘D ‘SAY puke “1, ) ‘epvue) PLIILV

‘ABMILEY SYLeq uvIpeue) sy} uo UOT}LIS oSINOT dyVT] Jo ISOMUJAOU OUT] Ite UP UL (‘Wy g'F6) soytut 6S yno je SI PIpue
-XoTY JUNOPL “OAD UBMIYIJEYSES IY} JO YOY YJION 94} JO ArvINqI4sy vB ‘OATY BIPUPXITY JO peoy IeaN /Apg’DIOT

‘pUunOISIIO}F IU] Ul JOATY PIpuexXs[y jo ured pooy 94} JO paq ATJaAvAs FUL

‘OPAC? [e}UIUTJUO-) UO [Re -IIIPLS JO }fo] uO (,O¢c‘or ) TenOc] JUNO] ‘totoe[s Jo }Y.S11 O} AJ9]VIpouUt (,066'01) 4eag
sudan) “(Qysrt) Yy1o0u 9} UO VsdUeJSIP UT (SIZ‘IT) PIPUPXI] VW JUNOT YIM BES) Oe) Ba} BIDURXI]Y JO MolA—'o7 ‘OLY

/

a "
- ¥
£
19

1921

EXPLORATIONS,

SMITHSONIAN

NO. I5

{ TOL) saptut Lg joe st YIM ‘sseq uosdwWOY T, JO Jsvoay {OU (‘UY FO'R) SayIw S ‘TDATY PAeNsa]jsey) JO peay IWIN 2 Ap2j/pI0
‘uOTBAITA (“UU QEF‘ZT) JooF OOO'R JNO }v aIe YDIYM ‘sodo]s 19MO] I19Yy} UO STOOLS

[[BlUS d1OW IO 9UO DALY [[e ADT, “AOATY PARNnsopysey oy} JO YOURAG UJO}JSPIYJIOU ay} WOIT YOR saynq podessea~—Iz ‘oy

c

ih

20 S

ee

fITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VOL. 72

Fic. 22— Waiting for the pack horses to be brought up to receive camera boxes,
dunnage bags, blanket rolls, tent, and small impedimenta.

a

Fic. 23.—Horses foraging through the snow.
NO. 15 SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1921 21

and soft bands of limestone and shale of the Sullivan * formation, and
they form a somewhat unique topographic feature, and are the top of
the world at this point.

Thompson Pass is one of the scenic features of the Continental
Divide when viewed from the high Alpine valley on the northeast side
of Castleguard Canyon. The Pass is low (6,511’ or 1,984 m.), and
bold high ridges lead up to mountain summits on either side (fig. 4).
A view taken on a misting day shows Watchman Lake (6,050’ or

ee

“i baal

ee eS
Fic. 24—A snowy morning on upper Pipestone River.

1,844 m.) and above it Cinema Lake (6,400’ or 1,950 m.) on the north-
east slope of the Pass. On the south Watchman Peak (8,674' or
2,634 m.) which lies in front of Mount Rice (10,745’ or 3,275 m.)
and on the right Mount Bryce (11,000’ or 3,352 m.) and Bryce glacier,
which is at the head of the middle branch of Castleguard River. The
Castleguard glaciers flow down from Mount Castleguard (10,090’ or
3,075 m.), which is a fine peak a few miles northeast of Mount Bryce.
Figure 4 is a fine illustration of a misting day along the Continental
Divide. We were camped for a week on the south side of the Alpine

*Smithsonian Misc. Coll., Vol. 72, No. I, 1920, p. 15.
22 SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VOL. 72

upland in the foreground, and on each day numerous squalls of fine
snow or frozen mist would sweep over from Thompson Pass or
Bryce glacier.

I do not know the origin of the names of Rice and Bryce, but it
is probable that the mountains were named in honor of Sir Cecil
Arthur Spring-Rice and Lord James Bryce.

As the result of unfavorable weather not more than one-third of
the work planned was completed when the late September snow drove
us back to the railroad. The morning we broke camp to go to Lake
Louise Station the horses were pawing away the snow to get at the
grass beneath (fig. 23), and the snow was very beautiful on the trees
and along the stream below camp (fig. 24). The trail was obscured
by it and to make matters more complicated, snow driven by a strong
east wind beat into our faces during the seven hours march. The
next day the sun came out and the storms were forgotten except for
the wonderful snow scenes along the trail down the Pipestone River.

The Commissioner of the Canadian National Parks, Hon. J. B.
Harkin, and the members of the Parks Service in the field, from
Superintendent to Park Warden, were most helpful, and the same is
true of the officials and employees of the Canadian Pacific Railway.

PALEONTOLOGICAL FIELD-WORK IN THE UNITED STADES

Field-work by the Department of Geology of the U. S. National
Museum during 1921 was carried on by three members of the Division
of Invertebrate and Vertebrate Paleontology.

Dr. R. S. Bassler, Curator of the Division of Paleontology, in
cooperation with the Geological Survey of Tennessee spent the
month of July in field-work in the Central Basin of that State, where
he was occupied in collecting geologic material and in mapping and
studying the economic resources of the Franklin quadrangle in
Williamson County, south of Nashville. This area of about 250 square
mules is of economic interest, on account of phosphate and oil shale
possibilities. It is also classic ground for the paleontologist because
of the numerous outcrops of Ordovician and later Paleozoic forma-
tions which afford a wealth of fossils. During the course of the
mapping, Dr. Bassler was able to collect a considerable number of
these fossils needed in the museum study series and was also fortu-
nate in securing several large exhibits illustrating various geological
phenomena. Among the latter is a large mass of limestone composed
entirely of the dismembered calices and columns of a large species of
crinoid or sea lily in which the individual fragments are perfectly
NO. 15 SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1921 23

4

sf eS g: oe of _— a

Fic. 25.—Contorted and cross bedded phosphate rock, Franklin, Tenn. (Photo-
graph by Bassler.)

iy ~~
Fic. 26.—Massive limestone with an intercalated coral reef, near Franklin,
Tenn. (Photograph by Bassler.)

24 SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VOL. 72

preserved and admirably illustrate the formation of a limestone
through the accumulation of this type of animal remains. Material
was also secured, both for the exhibition and study series, illustrating
the origin of the phosphate beds of the locality through the removal
from a phosphatic limestone of the easily soluble calcium carbonate
by the leaching power of surface waters. Such material is represented
in figure 25 showing a rock outcrop where a porous limestone is over-
laid by the contorted and crossbedded rock which upon such leaching
gives rise to the phosphate.

Among the interesting stratigraphic results secured was one show-
ing the efficacy of coral reefs of the Ordovician in rock formation.
The massive limestone about fifteen feet thick shown in figure 26
represents a middle Ordovician formation here containing but a single
reef but within a distance of ten miles the number of intercalated coral
reefs has so increased that the formation attains a thickness of over
250 feet.

An ancient Indian village near Brentwood, Tennessee, was visited
during this trip in the interest of the Bureau of Ethnology. The
object of the visit, namely the determination of the length of time
since the village was deserted, proved to be, however, outside of the
domain of geology.

Upon the completion of this work Dr. Bassler proceeded to Spring-
field, Hlinois, where with the permission of Dr. A. R. Crook, Chief
of the Museum, he prepared casts of the type specimens of invertebrate
fossils contained in the Illinois State Museum collections. The aim
in this work is to make the national collections of invertebrate fossils
as complete as possible in its representation of type specimens, a
work which was further advanced in the early part of January by a
visit to the Walker Museum of the University of Chicago, where
the casting of all the Paleozoic species which had remained unfinished
on the occasion of a former trip was completed.

Through the courtesy of Mr. E. J. Armstrong, of Erie, Pennsyl-
vania, Dr. Bassler was enabled to visit all the classical Silurian and
Devonian localities in northwestern Pennsylvania and western New
York during the latter half of September. The object of this trip
was to obtain a field knowledge of the detailed geology and to collect
carefully selected sets of fossils illustrating the numerous formations
of this region. This work was successful and the many large collec-
tions of Devonian fossils in the museum hitherto lacking exact strati-
graphic data can now be determined and arranged in the detail neces-
sary to-day.
IN@)5.< IIS SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, I92I1 25

In April, Mr. C. W. Gilmore, the Associate Curator of Vertebrate
Paleontology was authorized to undertake a trip into New Mexico,
“for the purpose of making collections of geological material for
the National Museum and determining the advisability of preserving
certain lands in northern New Mexico for national monumental pur-
poses.” Mr. Gilmore was obliged to report that:

Since the many square miles of “bad lands” surrounding the reserved area
are equally fossiliferous and in places present much more favorable territory
for the recovery of fossil remains than any observed within the boundaries
of the monument, and also since the greater part of these surrounding areas
lie within Pueblo Grants over which federal control has been relinquished,
there would be no advantage in retaining governmental control of so small a
part of the area as is represented in the proposed monument.

Mr. Gilmore did, however, find a contiguous fossiliferous area in
the Santa Clara Pueblo Grant and secured for the museum a well-
preserved skull and other bones of a small rhinoceros, and in an ad-
joining Pojoaque Pueblo area remains of an extinct camel. The
most promising area for collecting would appear to lie within land
grants over which the government has at present no control.

In January, this same year, Mr. J. W. Gidley, Assistant Curator
in this Division, was authorized in cooperation with the United States
Geological Survey to conduct field explorations in the San Pedro and
Sulphur Springs Valleys of southern Arizona and on the completion
of this work to visit the La Brea asphalt deposits of southern Cali-
fornia and from there go to Agate, in Nebraska, for the purpose
of securing other exhibition material. The work in Arizona was
eminently successful, Mr. Gidley shipping some 24 boxes having
an aggregate weight of 5,000 pounds. The bulk of this collection, he
reports represents “a practically new Pliocene fauna containing about
60 vertebrate species, most of which are mammalian.”

In detail Mr. Gidley reports essentially as follows:

“ The geological structure of the San Pedro Valley will be published
in detail by Doctor Bryan of the United States Geological Survey.
It, however, may be noted here that this beautiful desert valley, now
drained by the Rio San Pedro (which, rising near the Mexican border,
runs nearly north-northwest, emptying into the Gila River, more than
a hundred miles away), narrows and deepens as it runs northward
from Benson leaving relatively small and scattered areas of sedi-
mentary deposits which may contain fossil vertebrate remains. Most
of our work, therefore, was confined to the upper valley, which forms
a rather wide basin bounded on the east by the Dragoon mountains,
on the west by the Whetstone Range, and on the south by the Tomb-
20 SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VOL. 72

stone mountains, and extends northward a few miles below the town
of Benson,

‘* Erosional exposures in this general region are quite extensive, but
time and funds being limited the work done on this expedition was
confined entirely to two promising localities of relatively small area,
previously located by Doctor Bryan. One of these is situated on
the west side of the valley, about two or three miles due south of

lic. 27—General view of fossil bearing exposure at Curtis Ranch locality,
looking across the San Pedro Valley. Partly excavated bones of Glyptodon
in foreground. (Photograph by Gidley.)

Benson, the other on the east side, at the head of a large ‘ wash’
three miles east of the Curtis ranch which is situated on the state
road about 14 miles south-southeast of Benson and an equal distance
northwest of Tombstone. The latter locality occupied the greater
part of my time and yielded by far the greater amount of material,
although the number of species later collected in the Benson locality,
slightly exceeded those found here.

“ Among the larger, and, from the museum standpoint, more 1m-
portant specimens secured at this locality are included parts of two
skeletons of a new species of mastodon, and parts of three skeletons
of a large armored edentate, Glyptotherium, which when restored
should make a striking exhibition piece.
NO. 15 SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, I921 27

“Other material obtained here consists of remains representing a
wide variety of species which include a large and a smaller species
of camel, the latter apparently closely related to the South American
guanaco; two or three species of horses, a species of deer; a small
extinct antelope of the Merycodus type; a carnivore related to the
dog-wolf group but more primitive in some respects than any of the
living forms; several new species of the rodent group, but all belong-

to = 3 fo 2
Fic. 28.—Portion of the carapace or bony skin covering of a Glyptodon, parti-
ally excavated. Curtis Ranch locality. (Photograph by Gidley.)

ing to modern genera; two species of land turtles, and a species of
bird not yet determined.

“ At the close of this work, which had nearly exhausted the original
allotment for field expenses, an additional sum was granted, whereby
it was possible to proceed with a desired investigation planned for
earlier, in the Sulphur Springs Valley near Willcox.

“ T arrived at Willcox on the 15th of March. As found ona previous
visit the conditions were not such as would inspire enthusiasm over
the prospects of a good collecting-field. The surrounding country
stretched away for miles in every direction almost as level as a floor,
with no erosional exposures ; and had not recent fossil remains already
28 SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VOL. 72

been discovered through the digging of a shallow well in the vicinity
no one would have suspected their presence here. Several years
earlier fossil bones had also been found at nearly the same depth
(about 9 feet) in another well, now filled in, which had been dug
at a distance of about 250 feet from the present open one. It was
thus assumed that the fossil-bearing gravel deposit was of rather wide
extent, and that by making a long stripping with plow and scrapers, a
considerable area of “ pay gravel”? might be uncovered and worked
at comparatively small expense. The spot chosen as being most
promising was naturally that between the two wells.

“At Willcox, the services were procured of a reliable man with
teams, plow and scrapers and this work was put into execution.
Thanks are here due Mr. Harris, a local real estate agent, who lent
valuable aid in this connection. I was also indebted to this gentleman
for permission to put through the project, for the locality worked
was on deeded land which he had in charge.

“ As the stripping progressed, it became evident that the strata, or
layers, of deposits passed through did not conform to the section
exposed in the abandoned well. Hence, on reaching the 7-foot level
three prospect holes, about 15 feet apart, were put down to a depth
of about 6 feet, or 4 feet lower than the top of the gravel deposit in
the well. In none of these holes was there any sand or gravel en-
countered thus proving that the gravel exposed in the well was part
of an ancient stream channel of limited lateral extent. This discovery
of course caused a complete abandonment of the trench excavation
work, and the remainder of our time was spent in ‘ mining’ the
gravel from the sides of the well as far as was considered safe to do
so. In this way several good fossil horse teeth were procured.

“From Willcox, I went by way of Tucson to Feldman, arriving there
about noon of the 29th of March, where I was joined by Dr. Bryan.
Feldman is a ranch and post office in the lower valley of the San
Pedro, about 90 miles north-northwest of Benson and about 10 miles
above the junction of the San Pedro with the Gila. The valley here
is very much narrowed and deepened, the river bed being nearly
2,000 feet lower than at the Curtis ranch. The gradient of the
streams and ‘ washes’ emptying into the San Pedro in this vicinity
is very steep and benches and divides rise quite abruptly on either
side. Erosional exposures one might expect to find here under
these conditions are very much reduced by a heavy covering of gravel
of relatively recent age. But paleontological evidence for confirming
the age of this part of the valley was so much desired, a special effort
INO= 15 SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1921 29

Fic. 29.—Base of skull of mastodon with tusks in position, partially excavated.
Curtis Ranch locality. (Photograph by Gidley. )

Fic. 30.—Searching for small mammal jaws in excavation made in collect-

ing one of the mastodon skeletons. Curtis Ranch locality. (Photograph
by Gidley. )

3
30 SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VOL. 72

to procure it was considered worth while. However, the few days
spent here met with little success, and owing to the great inconvenience
of continuing it further without more complete field equipment, the
project was abandoned. On the morning of April 2, we left Feldman,
returning to Benson via Tucson, and the next morning began a
systematic search for fossils at a locality about two to three miles
south of the town. During our earlier stay at the Curtis ranch we had
made one short visit to this locality, the material obtained then sug-
gesting a slight difference in age, or phase, between these deposits
and those of the Curtis locality. The material obtained at this place
is fragmentary and abounds mostly in remains of mammals of small
size, intermixed with which were bones of birds of several species
sufficiently well preserved for their determination, and a new species
of box turtle. Here remains of thirty-four species of vertebrates were
recovered. This collection, together with the material obtained at
the Curtis ranch locality, in which 26 species are represented, makes
up a very considerable fauna which should not only do much toward
definitely determining the age of the beds of the San Pedro Valley,
but will also throw valuable added light on the at present very little-
known animal life of the upper Pliocene of America.”

From Arizona, Mr. Gidley proceeded to Los Angeles, California,
where he passed a week studying the museum of the southern branch
of the University of California and in examining the well-known
asphalt bone deposits of the Rancho la Brea. From Los Angeles, he
proceeded on the 16th of April to Agate, Nebraska, prepared to carry
out a second detail of field-work mentioned above. He was unfortu-
nate here in encountering bad weather, but succeeded in securing for
the museum a block of the bone-bearing sandstone some 33 by 53 feet
and 14 inches in thickness. This was shipped to the museum and
preparation for exhibition is now under way.

ASTROPHYSICAL FIELD-WORK IN ARIZONA AND IN CHILE

As stated in last year’s Exploration pamphlet,’ the solar radiation
work of the Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory was removed
from Mount Wilson, California, to Mount Harqua Hala, Arizona, in
September, 1920, in order to observe under better sky conditions,
and in a more favorable place for continuing the observing the whole
year round. Under the charge of Dr. C. G. Abbot the work was

Smithsonian Misc. Coll., Vol. 72, No. 6.
NO. 15 SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1921 31

established and continued at Mount Harqua Hala until January 20,
1921, when it was taken in charge by Mr. L. B. Aldrich. He remained
until May 20, 1921, when he was relieved by Mr. A. F. Moore,
formerly director of the Smithsonian private observing station at
Calama and Montezuma, Chile. Under Mr. Moore’s charge, the
work has been continued steadily at Mount Harqua Hala, with the
assistance of Mr. F. A. Greeley.

The Smithsonian Institution maintains from the income of the
Hodgkins fund a similar station at Mount Montezuma, near Calama,
Chile, under the direction of Mr. L. H. Abbot assisted by Mr. P. E.
Greeley. From this Chilean station daily telegrams are forwarded
to Buenos Aires, Argentina, giving the observed value of the solar
constant of radiation for the day. These data are employed regularly
by the Argentine Weather Bureau for weather-forecasting purposes.

While the Smithsonian Institution is not yet in position to champion
the use of statistics of solar variation for meteorological forecasts, the
great interest which its studies of solar variability have aroused here
and abroad seems clearly to warrant the continued maintenance of
the Arizona and Chile solar stations under the best possible observ-
ing conditions for several years, until a satisfactory basis for a test
of the solar variability as a weather-forecasting element has been laid.

The present year has unluckily proved unfortunate at both stations.
At Mount Harqua Hala the spring months were very hazy, the
summer and autumn months unusually cloudy, with almost unpre-
cedentedly heavy rainfall. At Montezuma the cloudiness of the
earlier months was quite unprecedented. During August and Sep-
tember a disarrangement of the apparatus caused apparently by earth-
quake, combined with illness of the director, led to the loss of many
observing days.

In October, Dr. Abbot began an inspection trip to Montezuma,
arriving at the station on November 15, and remaining until December
14. During this interval of 30 days, the observers fortunately were
able to determine the solar radiation on 26 days, and generally with
three or four closely agreeing determinations per day. All of the
apparatus was readjusted and improved to the most perfect state of
fitness. Many of the results in these conditions proved of a higher
grade than ever before observed. In fact it would be hard to con-
ceive of anything which could add now to the excellence of the
Montezuma station and outfit.

The accompanying illustrations show the desolate, rainless char-
acter of the region ; figure 31 shows the mountain top with the observ-
32 SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VOL. 72

Fic. 31—Summit of Mount Montezuma. Observing cave near the top.

Fic, 32.—Garage, Shop and Dwelling, Mount Montezuma,
IN@s 105) SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1921 33

ing cave; figure 32, the group of buildings comprising the observer’s
quarters, the shop and the garage; and figure 33 the entrance to the
observing cave with such observing apparatus as is employed outside
during observations of the solar constant.

It is possible to drive the automobile on high gear clear to the
observer’s quarters which are situated at the head of a canon sheltered
on the west by a rise of several hundred feet from the strong west
winds of afternoon. There is almost invariably practically complete

Fic. 33.—Pyranometer, coelostat, pyrheliometers and theodolite with L. H.
Abbot, Director at Mount Montezuma.

absence of wind for several hours after sunrise, a thing highly favor-
able to morning work.

The observing cave near the top of the mountain is less than
1O minutes walk from the observer's quarters. It is only necessary to
go up twice a day, once to observe, and again at 8.30 P. M. to signal
the observed value to Calama, whence it is telegraphed to Buenos
Aires.

BOTANICAL EXPEDITION TO THE ORIENT

During the summer and fall, 1921, Dr. A. S. Hitchcock, system-
atic agrostologist of the Department of Agriculture and custodian of
the section of grasses of the Division of Plants in the U. S. National
34 SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VOL. 72

Museum, visited the Orient for the purpose of collecting and studying
the grasses, especially the bamboos. He left Washington April 25
and returned December 23, visiting the Philippines, Japan, China,
and Indo China. Six days were spent at Honolulu on the way over.
Collections were made at the following places: Philippines, Manila,
Los Banos, Baguio; Japan, Keelung (Formosa), Yokohama, Tokio,
Nikko, Lake Hakone, Mount Fuji, Kyoto, Nagasaki; China, Shang-

Fic. 34.—A peasant’s hut near Gotemba, Japan. The roofs of the building are
thatched with coarse grass. The bundles are for firewood.

hai, Nanking, Kuling, Hongkong, Canton, Wampoa, Yingtak, Shiu-
chow, Lohfau Mountain, Macao, Island of Hainan, Pakhoi; /ndo-
China, Haiphong, Hanoi, Vinh, Hue, Tourane.

The countries were visited in the order named so that collections
might be made at the most favorable season for grasses.

Collecting in the vicinity of Manila is not very satisfactory as
the native flora has been largely replaced by introduced species. From
Los Banos, the seat of the Agricultural College, a trip was made to
the summit of Mount Makeling about 3,500 feet high. This moun-
tain is of especial interest to botanists as it 1s the most accessible
region for the virgin forest, most of which has disappeared from the
vicinity of Manila. On this mountain was met one of the worst pests
of the eastern tropics, the leeches. At upper altitudes in the rain
INOS 105) SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1921 35

forest these vile worms are found in countless numbers. They attach
themselves to the skin and suck the blood with great avidity and con-
stant vigilance is necessary to prevent serious damage.

Japan is not very favorable for the collecting of grasses as it is
mostly a forested region and there is comparatively little open country.
The bamboos were of interest as there are many species. In the
Lake Hakone region the hills were covered for miles with a single

Fic. 35.—Hills near Lake Hakone, Japan. The vegetation on the distant
slopes is almost exclusively a single species of bamboo (Arundinaria chino),
4 to 8 feet high.

species of bamboo (Arundinaria chino), 4 to 8 feet high, often to the
exclusion of everything else.

China on the other hand was very rich in grasses. One of the
surprises of the trip was to find so much open grass land in a country
that is said to be very thickly populated. The cities of China are
very much crowded and the valley lands are intensively cultivated,
but the hills are unoccupied and almost unused. This is in striking
contrast to our own western regions where, except in National Forests
and other protected areas, the grass lands are extensively grazed.
The basic reason for this condition in China appears to be the risk
from bandits. The valley lands can be protected but the hills are
open to the attack of robbers.
36 SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VOL. 72

China was entered at Shanghai, a large comparatively modern city,
much under the influence of foreigners. Here is the only American
post office outside of the United States or its possessions. Mail can
be sent from here under frank or with United States postage stamps.
The two other places visited in central China were Nanking and
Kuling. At the former city is the University of Nanking, a flourish-
ing missionary institution, which extended many courtesies to Doctor

Fic. 36.—A street scene in Shanghai.

Hitchcock. Nanking is a thoroughly Chinese city showing little
foreign influence. Like most Chinese cities it is surrounded by a
high wall, this one being 32 miles in length and 30 to 50 feet high.
Kuling is a resort on a mountain south of the treaty port Kiu Kiang,
where the missionaries and other foreigners of central China con-
gregate during the summer.

During the visit of Doctor Hitchcock the Yangtse River was in
flood and the rice fields of the valley were covered with water. The
unfortunate peasants were in the water up to their waists or even
to their shoulders cutting the rice and placing it in small circular
NO. 15 SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 192] V/),

Fic. 37.—A typical valley at Nanking, China, showing intensive cultivation.
There is a fish pond in the left foreground. The hills on each side of the
valley are covered with grass, much of which will be cut and used for fuel.

Fic. 38.—A ricksha party just after passing out through one of the main gates
of Nanking China. The city wall is about 50 feet high.
5

38 SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VOLE 72

t

Fic. 39.—The Yangtse Valley above Nanking in flood. View from a river
steamer.

Fic. 40.—Slender pieces of split bamboo drying in the sun. From these joss
sticks are to be made.
NOM ES SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1921 39

boats. The bundles were supported on the ends of crossed poles on
the dikes to hold them out of the water to dry.

Fic. 41.—A clump of bamboo, Canton, China. A common ornamental plant.

The gateway to south China is Hongkong, a very mountainous
island owned by the British, the peak being 1,800 feet high. There is
here a botanic garden and a herbarium. Canton lies up the river
west of Hongkong about 80 miles. Opposite Canton on the island of
Honam is the Canton Christian College, where Doctor Hitchcock
40 SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VOL. 72

made his headquarters. I¢xcursions were made to Yingtak and
Shiuchow on the North River north of Canton, to Lohfau Moun-
tain east of Canton and north of Sheklung, to Wampoa 10 miles east
of Canton, where the Wilkes Expedition made collections, and to
Macao, a Portuguese possession 40 miles from Hongkong and the
oldest foreign settlement in this region.

A more extended trip was made in company with Mr. McClure
of the Canton Christian College, to Indo-China and the Island of

ie ae

Fic, 42.—A street scene in Yingtak, on the North River, about 80 miles north of
Canton. The bundles of stalks are to be used for firewood.

Hainan. Going from Hongkong to Haiphong, a stop was made at
Pakhoi on the southern coast of Kwantung Province. Here forty-
six species of grasses were obtained in a few hours on the sandy
areas and rocky hills. Haiphong is the port of Tongking. Indo-
China is a french Colony (officially French Indo-China), consisting
of five divisions, Tongking, Annam, Cambodia, Cochin-China, and
Laos. The objective in Indo-China was Hue, the capital of Annam.
Loureiro, a Portuguese botanist, resided here and published in 1790 a
flora of Cochin-China and it was to determine the identity of many of
NO. 15 SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1921 Al

his grasses that this interesting city was visited. To reach Hue one
goes by rail to Hanoi and then south to Vinh, the present terminus of
the railroad that is to be built to Hue and ultimately to Saigon.
Beyond Vinh one goes by auto-bus over good roads about 175 miles.
A trip was made to Tourane on the coast, connected with Hue by
railroad.

On the return trip from Haiphong to Honkkong, a stop was made
in Hainan, landing at Hoihow on the north coast. Hainan is a
seldom-visited island about 180 miles long, belonging to China.

Fic. 43.—A wayside shrine at Yingtak, China. These shrines are common but,
like the present one, often suffer from neglect.

Through the kindness of Doctor McCandliss, a missionary in charge
of a hospital at Hoihow, we were able to penetrate to the interior of
the island as far as Kachek where there is a branch missionary station.
The journey was made by boat on the river the first day and on foot
the second and third days. From Kachek a trip was made up the
river into the foothills of the Five-finger Mountains. Traveling in
Hainan as in many other parts of China is chiefly by chair carried
by two coolies.

Traveling in China is mostly by rather primitive methods. Modern
steamers ply along the coast and on the larger rivers and there are a
few railroads. The sampan, a small partly covered boat propelled by
42 SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VOL. 72

oars, is common in the harbors. In the cities where the roads are
wide enough the ricksha (jinrikisha) is used. This is a two-wheeled
cart, mostly now with pneumatic tires, drawn by a coolie, and holding

Fic. 44——A sampan at Shiuchow. This is the common type of small boat
used on the rivers of south China. The bamboo pole is used to push the boat
in shallow water. Oars are used in deeper water.

one person. In the narrow streets of the cities where there is not
room for rickshas, and on the country trails or paths, chairs are
commonly used. These are covered seats supported by two poles
and carried by two coolies. Long journeys in them are far from com-
NOT 5 SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1921 43

fortable. In the part of China visited animals are little used for
transportation of any kind. Freight is carried on land by man-
power, one man with a pole supporting two weights, two men with

Frc. 45—A specimen of the traveler’s tree, growing in the botanical garden
at Hue, the capital of Annam, French Indo-China. The plant is a native of
Madagascar.

a pole supporting one weight, heavy loads on rude wheelbarrows, in
the cities heavy loads, as much as a ton, on carts pulled and pushed by
several men.

One of the curious sights to one visiting China for the first time
is the enormous number of graves distributed at random over the
44 SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VOL 72

country. Thousands of little mounds are to be seen on every hand,
some hemispherical and grass-covered, some more elaborate, with
stones or masonry.

The agriculture of China is intensive and in some ways much in
advance of ours. The rice fields show usually a perfect even stand,
and the amount per acre is the maximum. It represents a large amount
of labor as every stalk is set out and harvested by hand.

The botanical results of the trip were very satisfactory, a large and
valuable collection of grasses having been made.

BIOLOGICAL EXPLORATION IN THE: DOMINICAN REPUBLIC

In November, 1920, Dr. W. L. Abbott revisited the Dominican
Republic, working in both the Samana Peninsula and the region lying
between Sanchez (at the head of Samana Bay) and Puerto Plata,
on the north coast. Already familiar with much of this territory, he
was able to investigate a number of new and very interesting localities.
Two weeks was spent at Sanchez; three weeks in the vicinity of
Samana, a town on the south coast of the Samana Peninsula about
20 miles east of Sanchez, and on the mountain known as Pil6én
d’Aztcar ; seven weeks at several stations along the railroad connect-
ing Sanchez and Puerto Plata, among which were Villa Riva, P1-
mentel, Cotuy, Mao, and Navarrete; two weeks in the easternmost
portion of the peninsula, in visiting Las Cacaos, Rojo Cabo, and Cape
Samana ; one week on the south coast of Samana Bay in the vicinity
of San Gabriel; and one week in the region of Old Heart River, in
the north-central part of the peninsula.

Contrasting with the remaining part of Hispaniola, the population
of the Samana Peninsula is chiefly English-speaking, due to the fact
that Samana was settled by a colony of Philadelphia negroes under
President Boyer of Haiti in 1820-22. The region is well watered
and has a luxuriant vegetation, and provisions are plentiful and rela-
tively cheap. The hills extending north to the coast from Pilon
d’Azucar are covered with unbroken forests.

The Yuna River forms a vast swamp, which occupies the entire
region at the head of Samana Bay and extends along the railroad
for a distance of 12 miles. West of this swamp region, in the vicinity
of Villa Riva, Pimentel, and Cotuy, are vast stretches of grassy
savannah. The soil is fertile, and the inhabitants are industrious and
prosperous. Beyond this region the land, except along the streams,
becomes arid and the towns, such as Guaybin, Navarrete, and Mao,
are small, poorly provisioned, and lacking in enterprise.
ct

NO. I5 SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, I92I 4

4

Fic. 46—View down Rio Mao from schist outcrop near Bulla; cliffs of con-
glomerate in the distance.

Fic. 47—View along the Rio Mao, near Cercado de Mao.
40 SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VOL. 72

Numerous caves provide an interesting feature on the south coast
of Samana Bay, one of them comprising nearly the whole interior of
San Gabriel Isle. A cave at the mouth of Naranjita River contained
a quantity of Indian bones and pottery.

A collection of about 4,000 plants was procured, representing 1,460
numbers. Of these about 20 per cent are ferns, one being an interest-
ing new species of Anemia.

The birds obtained by Doctor Abbott on this visit totaled thirty-one
skins, with a few skeletons and eggs, chiefly representing species not
previously collected by him. Of particular interest is a whip-poor-will

Fic. 48—Harbor of Puerto Plata, looking north from Monte Isabel de Torres.

(Antrostomus), closely related to a species found in Cuba, but not
hitherto recorded from Santo Domingo. On the natural grassy plains
on the north side of the island he secured several specimens each of
the local form of the grasshopper sparrow (Ammodramus savannarum
intricatus), and of the stone-plover or thick-knee (Ocdicnemus
dominicensis ), both new to the museum collections. The thick-knee
belongs to a family of birds resembling overgrown plovers, and is
related to them. It occurs in the West Indies only in Santo Domingo,
but allied forms are found in suitable localities in Central and South
America. The family is chiefly an Old World one, and for the most
part tropical in distribution. The Santo Domingo species is well-
known to the natives, under the name ‘‘ boukera,” and tame individuals
NO. 15 SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, I9Q2I 47

are often kept about the houses for the purpose of ridding the
premises of insects and spiders.

In addition many land shells and a considerable quantity of
ethnological material were secured. Doctor Abbott left New York
about the middle of December, 1921, on another expedition to the
island, but thus far no information or material has been received
from him.

EXPERIMENTS IN HEREDITY

Progress in the experiments in heredity conducted under the joint
auspices of the Smithsonian and Carnegie Institutions by the writer,
Dr. Paul Bartsch of the U. S. National Museum, have from time to
time been published in this pamphlet and in the Year Book of the
Carnegie Institution. A summary of the results attained up to 1920
was published as “ Experiments in the Breeding of Cerions”’ in 1920,
volume 14 of the Department of Marine Biology of the Carnegie
Institution, pp. 3-55, pls. 1-59.

The reported loss of the Cerion colonies introduced into the
Tortugas which were said to have been wiped out by the hurricane of
September, 1919, made it necessary to revisit the Bahamas to secure
additional breeding material for the heredity experiments. Accord-
ingly, passage was secured at Miami on the power schooner ‘‘ Tecoma ”
for Nassau, New Providence, on May 18, and there the services of the
power boat “ Standard J ’’ were secured for a trip to Andros.

The desired adolescent specimens of Cerion viaregis were obtained
along King’s Road, Bastian Point, South Bight, Andros, with con-
siderable difficulty because the agricultural efforts on the part of the
local population have shifted to the ground that was occupied by the
Cerion colonies during our 1912 visit.

The colony of Cerion casablancae has met with even greater mis-
fortune, for sheep and pigs have been introduced into the region
occupied by this species, and the larger vegetation has been cut down
in order to furnish more opportune habitat for grass culture. These
new environmental conditions promise well to exterminate this colony.
The necessary material for the experiments was secured with great
difficulty.

A trip was next made through South Bight to the western end of
Andros and.then back to the eastern shore through Middle Bight. On
this journey many stops were made and Cerions were gathered in
large numbers. The localities from which they were taken were care-
fully listed so that it will be possible to go back to the same spot in
48 SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VOL. 72

the future and gather material for comparison with that now resting
in the National Museum.

There were several points of interest as far as the physical features
of the locality visited were concerned. In 1912 the waters of the
western end of South Bight were of a creamy consistency and the
land areas adjacent low flats, mud cracked, with flakes of oolitic
rock. On the present visit South Bight was found to be a perfectly
clear stretch of water with well-packed bottom with an abundant
growth of aquatic plants, while the land adjacent gave the impres-
sion of moss covered flats. The green element, however, was due to
blue-green algae, which appear to serve as a binding factor.

The trip was enlivened by an iguana hunt, which resulted in the
securing of several of these large lizards which are now in the collec-
tion of our Zoological Park.

Returning to Nassau, five days were spent exploring the cays off
the northwestern shore of New Providence and the adjacent main-
land. Here large collections of Cerions were made, the location of
each colony being carefully noted, so that these likewise may serve
as a check series for comparison with future generations produced in
place.

On June 3 Dr. Bartsch returned to Miami and on the following day
set sail for the Tortugas, stopping to examine the various plantings
along the Florida keys.

It was a pleasure to find that the hybrid colony on Newfound
Harbor Key, around which the greatest interest centers just now, had
escaped being wiped out by the hurricane. Evidently the rain preced-
ing the hurricane had caused the Cerions to take to the ground, as
they are wont to do for foraging purposes under such circumstances,
and the dense mats of grass here had kept them from being swept
away by the floods that had passed over them, a most fortunate state
of affairs. A large number of dead specimens were nevertheless
found, which have been placed in the National Museum for record.

Incidentally, it may be stated that another almost fledged young
great white heron was discovered on White Heron Key, the island that
furnished the specimen that was shipped to the Zoological Park two
years ago. The present specimen, which is probably a younger brother
or sister of the former sending, was also transmitted by parcel post
to the Zoo, where it arrived in good condition.

In “ Experiments in the Breeding of Cerions,” there are given on
page 46 detailed measurements of 100 specimens representing the
check series of Cerion crassilabris from Balena Point, near Guanico
NO. 15 SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1921 49

Bay, Porto Rico, which were planted on Loggerhead Key in 1915.
These were figured on plates 48 to 50. On page 47 measurements
were given and on plate 51 figures of 36 adult shells of the first Florida
grown generation which were gathered in January, 1919. This year a
much larger series of first generation material was found, and 200 of
such specimens were measured.

The summaries of these measurements show that no appreciable
changes in measurements have taken place in the first generation of
Florida grown Cerion crassilabris. The measurements in size all fall
within the limits of variation, as denoted in the check series, excepting
one, 7. ¢., a single specimen which was found among the 200 of the first
Florida grown generation that had a diameter 0.2 mm. less than any
in the check series. There is no doubt that one could find an indi-
vidual giving such a measurement among the specimens on the native
heath of this species, for the check series was not a selected one, but a
hundred specimens taken at random.

COMPARISON OF MEASUREMENTS OF FIRST FLORIDA GROWN CERION
CRASSILABRIS WITH THE CHECK SERIES
Greatest

No. whorls Altitude diameter

Average WiGheck series’. <.a..0008 0.55 22.13 12.41
mips ks .? First generation ..... 9.13 22.30 11.89
Greatest diameter....... {Check series | s+ 10.5 27.5 13.9
\ First generation ..... 10.4 257, 13.2

Weast wdiametersea. fess. { Check series ......... 8.5 19.0 10.6
\hirst generation 22. -- 8.6 10.6 10.4

It is interesting, therefore, to note that so far as the first genera-
tion of this Porto Rican Cerion is concerned, it is in complete agree-
ment with the facts adduced from the two Bahaman species.

The hurricane of 1919 destroyed the cages in which had been placed
a specimen of each of two species, in order to determine their ability
to hybridize, and to note the results of such crosses as might be
observed from such selected individuals.

A new set of cages was therefore prepared. [Eleven groups of
these cages consist of four compartments, each a cubic yard in size.
The septa between compartments are double wire walls to prevent
possible mating through the meshes of the fine Monel metal wire
screen. In each of these cages there were placed a Hymenocallis
plant, some grass and dead wood rubbish, in other words, habitat
conditions which were found to be favored by Cerions at the Tortugas.
Then two half-grown specimens, one of Cerion viaregis and one of
Cerion incanum from Key West, were placed in each of the forty-four
50 SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VOL. 72

compartments. These cages are securely anchored, and every pre-
caution has been taken to make sure that the mollusks will be confined
within them, and that no extraneous individuals can find entrance.
The cages are arranged as shown in the following diagram, and a
better idea of them may be formed from the photograph (fig. 50).

Eve

Fic. 49—Diagram showing arrangement of cages.

Cages No. 45 and No. 46 are of the same size as those last men-
tioned. In cage 45 were placed 183 young of Cerion incanum from
Key West, in order to determine what percentage of these will reach
maturity. In cage 46 was placed an abnormal specimen of Cerion
viaregis. This had a spiral keel, which may be the result of an injury,
although Doctor Bartsch was unable to discover any sign of it.
With it was also placed a normal specimen of Cerion viaregis in order
to determine if this character might be transmitted to offspring.

In addition to these, five groups of cages were made which have the
same size as the four unit cages, but they have only one partition in
NOS 15 SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1921 51

the middle, thus making them 3 by 6 feet, and 3 feet high. In these
there were placed the following combinations :

No. 47, 25 each of Cerion incanum and Cerion viaregis.

No. 48, 25 each of Cerion incanum and Cerion casablancae.

No. 49, 25 each of Cerion incanum and Cerion uva.

No. 50, 25 each of Cerion incanum and Cerion crassilabris.

Fic. 50.—A portion of the monel metal wire cages used in Cerion breeding
experiments.

No. 51, 25 each of Cerion viaregis and Cerion uva.

No. 52, 25 each of Cerion viaregis and Cerion crassilabris.
No. 53, 25 each of Cerion casablancae and Cerion uva.

No. 54, 25 each of Cerion casablancae and Cerion crassilabris.

No. 55, 25 each of Cerion uva and Cerion crassilabris.

In cage 56 there were placed 203 young of various sizes of the huge
new form collected in Middle Bight, Andros, which Doctor Bartsch
has called Cerion mayort.

Two additional species were introduced this year on Loggerhead
Key, one Cerion mayori, as above stated, and the second, Cerion
incanum, as also stated above, but of this species a large colony was
52 SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VOR 72

also placed about the water tower at the northern end of the island,
in order to have additional material if it should be needed for breeding
purposes in the future.

While at the Tortugas a careful bird census was made, as usual.
By the use of a blind, a series of photographs of the beautiful roseate
tern, nesting here abundantly, was secured. The accompanying illus-
tration shows one of these birds together with an unhatched egg and
a babe.

Fic. 51.—Roseate tern, young, and egg. Bush Key, Tortugas, Fla.

ENTOMOLOGICAL EXPEDITION TO ALASKA

In May, 1921, Dr. J. M. Aldrich, Associate Curator of Insects, U. S
National Museum, was detailed to collect insects in Alaska, especially
in the interior. The museum had very little material from Alaska,
except from the coast region. The government railroad, extending
from the southern coast north to Fairbanks, was nearing completion,
and offered opportunity for travel not heretofore existing. It ap-
peared also that the completion of the railroad would probably lead
to an increase of population which would create greater interest in
the insects of the region.
NO. 15 SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, I921 53

Doctor Aldrich left Seattle May 30. The steamship made some
stops for unloading freight, enabling him to collect one day at Skag-
way and one day at Valdez. The coast region is fairly familiar to
tourists, with its innumerable islands, steep shore-line, snow-capped
mountains and numerous glaciers (figs. 52-56). Seward was reached
on June g. The government railroad begins at this point and close con-
nections were made with a waiting train. The railroad passes over
rugged mountains in the Kenai peninsula close to several large
glaciers ; it then descends to sea-level at Turnagain Arm, keeping near
the shore line to Anchorage. This was the first collecting point which
might be considered to represent the fauna of the interior. Although

Fic. 52.—Cannery near Juneau, Alaska.

it is on tide-water it is behind the coast range and has the dry climate
characteristic of the interior. The town is on a level glacial plain,
several miles wide, covered with a light forest and having a thin soil
upon quite recently deposited gravel. The forest is composed of
spruce, aspen, birch, alder and willow. After several days collecting
here the journey northward was resumed. Steel had been laid as far
as Hurricane, 285 miles from Seward. On arriving here Doctor
Aldrich was furnished a horse by the Alaskan Engineering Commis-
sion and rode along the right-of-way for 85 miles across Broad Pass
and down the Nenana River to Healy, which was at the time the
terminus of the rails laid southward from Nenana on the Tanana
River. Only casual collecting was done until Healy was reached, but
here it was necessary to wait several days for baggage to be brought
from Hurricane by wagon. This proved to be a very good collecting
54 SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VOL. 72

point as it is at the mouth of the canyon on the edge of the Yukon
Valley, thus combining to some extent the mountain and plain fauna.
After five days here, Doctor Aldrich went north on the railroad to
Nenana, collected there for only part of a day and continued the fol-
lowing day on the narrow gauge line, recently acquired by the govern-
ment, to Fairbanks, his destination. It had been intended to spend

Fic. 53.—North side Lynn Canal near Skagway, Alaska.

Fic. 54.—Glacier on Lynn Canal, Alaska.

most of the collecting time in the vicinity of Fairbanks, but the trip
had taken much longer than expected, so he stayed only a week at
this point.

The Tanana Valley at Fairbanks is typical of the Yukon Valley in
general, as far as the species of insects are concerned. Although it
is within about 100 miles of the Arctic Circle, it has a fairly hot
summer on account of the extremely long period of sunshine in the
day. Some farms are developed and the government experiment sta-
tion has been demonstrating for many years that the usual garden
NO. 15 SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1921

ot
Ot

vegetables of the northern states as well as some cereals can be grown,
The aspect of the light forest is much like parts of northern Minnesota
and the regions about Lake Superior generally: the insects collected

Fic. 55.—Port Althorp, Alaska (merely a cannery).

Fic. 56.—Looking north from Tannel Station, Alaska. Valley filled with glacial
gravel in part very recent.

were mostly species occurring in the region named and eastward to the
Adirondacks and New England.

A return trip was made along the same route, with stops at Healy
and at some of the construction camps on the unfinished part of the
50 SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VOL. 72

Fic. 57.—A good insect collecting ground on Ship Creek, near Anchorage,
Alaska.

Fic. 58.—Homesteader’s cabin near Anchorage, Alaska.
on
N

NOV a5 SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, I921

Fic. 59.—Outskirts of Anchorage. Log houses make up almost the whole
town, and are the usual thing in Alaska.

Fic. 60.—Outskirts of Anchorage, Alaska. Half-cleared land.
on

SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VOL. 172
road. The bad condition of the wagon road along the right-of-way
south of Healy had reduced wagon travel to a very low stage. The
only wagons using the road were those of the Alaskan Engineering

Fic. 61—Spruce forest on Chulitna River near Mount McKinley.

a

Fic. 62.—Hurricane, a construction camp on the government railroad 285 miles
north from Seward, Alaska.

Commission, carrying supplies to the camps. As each wagon turned
back on unloading, and only a few were in use at the time, considerable
delay was encountered in getting baggage moved from Healy to
NO. 15 SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, IQ21 59

Hurricane. This delay could have been used to good advantage for
collecting except for the fact that the weather became cloudy and
windy and very unfavorable. Doctor Aldrich, after several days
delay, went on to Anchorage and spent a few more days collecting
there while awaiting his baggage. Here the weather was again favor-
able so that the result was very good. Resuming his journey Doctor
Aldrich went to Seward with the intention of spending at least ten
days in getting a collection of the insects of the humid coast region.
The weather, however, gradually became more rainy, greatly limiting
the result and finally making it expedient to take the boat from Seward
about a week after arrival.

’ i ee
Ce ah OP cae

Fic. 63.—Middle fork of Chulitna, a little south of Broad Pass. Corduroy
bridge of the Alaskan Engineering Commission.

The expedition resulted in the accession of about 10,000 specimens
of Alaska insects, nearly all from the interior region. As far as they
have been studied up to the present time they indicate three somewhat
distinct faunal regions in the territory covered.

First, the maritime fauna consisting of the insects living upon the
seashore and depending upon the ocean for necessary conditions of
existence. Insects of this group extend down the coast, in many cases
as far as the State of Washington and some even so far as San
Francisco; while it is presumed that they would also be found more
or less in the Asiatic side of Bering Sea.

The second element is that of the humid mountain region along the
coast; a considerable part of this fauna extends to Puget Sound,
60 SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VOL. 72

Fic. 64.—Contractors’ cabins on the line of the government railroad near
Broad Pass, Alaska.

Fic. 65.—Looking northward down the Nenana, Alaska. Unfinished govern-
ment railroad in foreground and down left side.
NO. 15 SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1921 61

Mount Rainier, and in less degree, to other mountains of the Pacific
northwest. The relation of this element to the Asiatic fauna is very
little known.

The third element of the Alaska fauna, as far as observed, is that
of the dry interior and especially of the Yukon Valley, which has
many elements in common with Northern Minnesota, Wisconsin and
Michigan, Ontario, the Adirondack Mountains of New York and the
White Mountains of New Hampshire. Many of the insects of this
group also occur in the Rocky Mountains of Colorado and no doubt
further exploration will show that they occur in other mountains
of the western United States. Those which represent a more northern

Fic. 66.—Town of Healy in the lignite belt on the Nenana River, Alaska.

range also reappear in Labrador collections, and presumably extend
across North America although we have no collections from inter-
mediate points. This element contains many species known from
Finland and the Scandinavian Peninsula in Europe, presumably ex-
tending in their distribution across Russia and Siberia.

In most orders of insects Alaska has a comparatively large fauna.
There are very numerous species of the two-winged flies, or Diptera ;
and from Doctor Aldrich’s long experience with this group he natur-
ally paid especial attention to collecting in this order. Bumble bees
and wasps are conspicuous insects everywhere on flowers; and in the
absence of darkness bumble bees were observed to work as late as
10.30 at night in Fairbanks. Grasshoppers were strikingly scarce,
only two species being found and in all but half a dozen specimens.

5
62 SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VOL. 72

Mosquitoes in the interior are exceedingly abundant, as is well known.
Especial attention was given to them in collecting, and two species
previously undescribed were among the material brought back. It
appears, however, that the most troublesome species are the same ones
which occur in somewhat less numbers in the Pacific northwest in
occasional favorable localities. Horse flies are very numerous in the
region at Fairbanks where they are commonly called moose flies since
the moose is more common than the horse.

3 S. {

;
d
j
+
a]
i

Fic. 67.—Construction camp at Nenana Bridge, north of Healy, Alaska.

The common house fly was not found at any point in Alaska. Con-
tinuous attention was given to this matter, and collections were made
at the garbage dumps in Anchorage and Seward; while at Ketchican,
the southernmost town in Alaska, grocery stores, restaurants and a
cannery were carefully examined early in August without finding any
of the flies. Other garbage-feeding flies were studied at every pos-
sible point and one new species of blow-fly was collected. The absence
of several scavenger flies which are common in the United States was
noted.

The exploration of Alaska, especially the interior, from an entomo-
logical point of view is important in itself and also forms a link in the
study of a much broader problem—that of the entire Holarctic fauna
which extends almost continuously around the globe in the vicinity of
NO. 15 SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1921 63

the Arctic Circle. It isa matter of great scientific interest to determine
how much of this northern fauna is the same in the new world as in
the old, and also to determine how much of the fauna further south,

Fic. 68.—Fairbanks, Alaska, and adjacent country from top of a building.

Fic. 69.—Looking up the Cheva River eastward from Fairbanks, Alaska. Some
farms cleared and cultivated on the slopes of the distant hill.

as for instance in the United States, has been derived from this
northern region. It is hoped that opportunity will arise to carry this
exploration much farther not only in Alaska, where as yet merely a
beginning has been made, but also in other northern regions as for
instance Labrador, Greenland and Siberia.
64 SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VOL. 72

ARCHEOLOGICAL FIELD-WORK ON THE MESA VERDE
NATIONAL PARK

During May and June, 1921, Dr. J. Walter Fewkes, Chief of the
Bureau of American Ethnology, continued his archeological work of
former years on the Mesa Verde National Park, Colorado, the brief
season’s field-work being financed with a small allotment from the
Bureau of American Ethnology.

The site chosen for field operations was the Mummy Lake cluster
of mounds, a typical prehistoric southwestern village situated 4} miles
north of Spruce-tree Camp. One of the mounds in this village,
excavated in 1916, is now known as Far View House. The surface
contours of the remaining mounds differ somewhat, indicating that the
buildings hidden in them have different forms, but excavations are
necessary to determine the use of these buildings. It has long been
known that some of the prehistoric pueblos of our southwest had
rooms called kivas for religious purposes, but only within the last
year has it been recognized that there was sometimes added to these
kivas a complex of rooms, also for ceremonial purposes. Several of
these specialized religious structures have already been described, but
there remain many other mysterious mounds beckoning the archeol-
ogist for excavation and accurate identification. How many different
types of buildings designed solely for ceremonials there are in our
southwest, time will reveal.

The word house (ki, Hopi) is applied in prehistoric cliff-dwellers’
nomenclature to a compact collection of inhabited rooms, secular and
religious (fig. 70). A pueblo is such a communal dwelling; but a
group of uninhabited rooms, each and all constructed for ceremonial
purposes, should bear another name. The discovery of Sun Temple
introduced archeologists to a type of southwestern buildings not in-
tended for habitations, but for a specific communal purpose supposed
to be religious. Fire Temple, on the Mesa Verde, is also regarded as
such a specialized building and is likewise believed to have had a
religious use. Similarly, Cedar-tree Tower and Far View Tower
were not habitations but communal buildings with a religious function.
The “Lower House” at Yucca House National Monument, the
“Great Kiva” at Aztec, and similar great kivas situated in the Chaco
Canyon and elsewhere on tributaries of the San Juan River morpho-
logically belong to this type. All these may be called temples. There
are many large buildings never inhabited but now in ruins scattered
over the southwest, the use of which is doubtful. Among these are
PLORATIONS, 1921

EX

SONIAN

MITH

S)

“T ‘oay Aq ydessoj0L/ )

(‘peoipiey epuein ory pue daauaq Asojinoy ‘weeg
‘yieg [euUORN apsaA eSayY ‘JUIOg UNG WOIf :a0R[eg YD pue sduray ung—oZ ‘of

66 SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VOL. 72

the so-called fire houses or “ houses” of the Hopi fire people and the
twin mounds conspicuous on the mesa top above Sikyatki, which may
on excavation be found to have been devoted solely to religious
purposes.

Fic. 71.—Far View Tower and Kiva, partially exca-
vated. Mesa Verde National Park. (Photograph by
Fewkes. )

This specialization in the San Juan Valley of buildings showing
functional differentiation in structure is indicative of a high cultural
development. It is instructive to find that it is confined to prehistoric
stages of development and is most abundant in areas where sedentary
inhabitants had disappeared before the advent of Europeans.
NO. 15 SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, I92I 67

The plan of the work of the Bureau on the Mesa Verde National
Park in 1921 was to investigate a conspicuous and centrally placed
mound not far from Far View House. The indications are that this
was an ancient necropolis of the Mummy Lake Village, combining
subterranean rooms or kivas with a large cemetery situated on the
southern side of a high tower. Unfortunately, this cemetery had been
rifled several years ago by vandals ; but the many fragments of pottery
found on the surface betray features important in cultural comparisons.

Far View Tower was relatively an ancient building ; its architectural
form is characteristic and its pottery decidedly archaic as compared
with that of the golden epoch of geometric decoration from Cliff
Palace or Spruce-tree House. We may never know in what century
this tower was built, but its construction can be referred to an older
epoch than the great cliff dwellings of the park, which were probably
inhabited as late as 1300 A. D. The refuse heaps of cliff houses
have so little depth that a stratification or superposition of pottery
shards is too small to afford satisfactory evidence of long occupancy.
In historic refuse heaps of pueblos now inhabited they are thicker and
the stratification method has proved advantageous; but nothing that
was not already known has been added to our knowledge of the
sequence of prehistoric pottery of cliff houses by this method of study.
No Mesa Verde refuse mound has yet shown any difference in the
character of pottery found on its surface and at its base. The pottery
fragments of mounds containing relics of earth lodges are as a rule
cruder than others. The pottery from the cemetery or necropolis of
Far View Tower is rudely decorated ware, while that from Far View
House is finer, but not as well made as that from Spruce-tree House.
It is probably older than the pottery from Far View House, but both
are more ancient than the pottery from Spruce-tree House.

Far View Tower (fig. 71), like Cedar-tree Tower, has one and pos-
sibly more subterranean rooms or kivas on the south side, but the
latter lacks the large cemetery. The use to which Far View Tower
was put and the significance of the relation of the accompanying kivas
to it were probably not very different from those at Cedar-tree
Tower, discovered last year (1920). Evidently the complex was
devoted to some archaic cult, like fire worship.

In addition to the work above mentioned, Doctor Fewkes also
excavated Painted Kiva House, a small prehistoric cliff dwelling
situated on the Mesa Verde a short distance north of Cedar-tree
Tower, under the rim of the west side of Soda Canyon. This ruin
was excavated and described by Baron Nordenskiold, who called it
Ruin 9. It contains remains of two well-made kivas of the regular
68 SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VOL: 72

circular Mesa Verde type and of several granaries and living rooms.
The approaches to it from the mesa rim are very precipitous and it
was necessary to construct four ladders and otherwise improve the
trail to enable visitors to see it.

On the walls of one of its two kivas there survives a very good
example of decorated plastering. As shown in the accompanying
illustration (fig. 72) there is a dado or lower part of the kiva wall
which is painted red, and on its upper edge there are arranged at
intervals clusters of triangular symbols (three in number) around
which extends a row of dots. The Hopi identify these triangles as

Fic. 72.—Interior of kiva, showing mural decoration, niches, and _ pilaster.
Painted Kiva House, Mesa Verde National Park. (Photograph by Fewkes. )

symbols of butterflies. They are of common occurrence on the walls
of several kivas and survive in certain secular rooms of the cliff
dwellers. These triangles with surrounding dots occur constantly on
the oldest cliff-dweller pottery, as shown in the accompanying figures.
The ventilator shaft is represented in the painted kiva by a tortuous
passage, extending under walls and opening some distance from the
room. It is spacious enough to serve as an entrance into the cere-
monial chamber. Although Baron Nordenskidld made extensive ex-
cavations in Painted Kiva House and devoted several pages of his
memoir to a description of it and the specimens he found there, many
objects (fig. 73) remained in rear chambers which were found in

1921.
NO. 15 SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1921 69

sie

Fic. 73.—Snowshoe frame. Painted Kiva House, Mesa Verde National Park.
Size: 14% inches by 9% inches. (Drawn by Mrs. George Mullett.)

Fic. 74.—Rim basket. Painted Kiva House, Mesa Verde National Park.
Size: 15% inches. (Drawn by Mrs. George Mullett.)
7O SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VOL. 72

Among the instructive specimens collected in Painted Kiva House
should be mentioned a rim basket (fig. 74) and a woven headstrap of
yucca fiber. The unique object shown in figure 75 reminds one

Fic. 75.—Unidentified object. Painted Kiva House,
Mesa Verde National Park. Size: 534 inches long.
(Photograph by De Lancey Gill.)

of Navaho “ bugaboos,” sometimes found farther down the San Juan
but not yet recorded from Mesa Verde. In a rear room which gave
every evidence of having been a granary or bin for storage there were
found numerous ears of corn with kernels entire, beans, and squash
seeds. The belief is widespread that cliff-dweller seed corn when
NO. 15 SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, I92I 7a

planted will germinate, but all experiments in that direction have
failed. There is no hope that any greater success will reward experi-
ments made with corn from this granary. In the centuries that have
elapsed since the mesa was deserted, corn seed left behind has lost
its vitality.

The walls of a ruin called Mummy House, situated almost directly
under Sun Temple, are among the most carefully constructed on the
park. This ruin has one kiva which was cleaned out but not repaired.
A mummy (now in the Mesa Verde Park Museum) was found in this
ruin several years ago. Above it is Willow-tree House, practically
inaccessible. Ladders were put in place connecting the trail up the
canyon with Mummy House. A typical form of cliff house called
Oak-tree House, before and after repair, is shown in figures 76 and 77.

One of the important ruins on the Mesa Verde, called Step House
by Nordenskiold, is situated in a cave 5 miles west of Spruce-tree
Camp. It presents to the archeologist one of the most instructive prob-
lems on the Mesa, and should be put in shape for visitors. In the floor
of this cave, which has been considerably dug over by Nordenskiold
and others, there was material bearing on a most interesting chrono-
logical problem, viz., the age of the cliff houses; for the artifacts in
this place represent two different epochs in the cultural history of the
pure pueblo-cliff-dwelling type. Out of the floor of the cave there
projects the edges of upright slabs of stone showing the existence of
cists like those in Earth Lodge A. These suggest the slab-house cul-
ture; but at the other end is a building in the highest form of hori-
zontal masonry. The probability is that the former is the older con-
struction or that it was built by the most ancient people of the park,
who lived and were buried in that end of the cave, designated by
Nordenskiold a cemetery. Here we have evidences, both architectural
and ceramic, of former earth lodges or fragile walled buildings of the
prepuebloan or archaic culture. The original dwelling built by
people when they moved into Step House Cave was an earth lodge,
and the dwelling with horizontal masonry and kivas, at the other
end of the cavern, was a later development. The pottery of the
former is more archaic than that of the latter. Figure 78 illustrates
the most highly developed Mesa Verde pottery. We have, in other
words, indications of two distinct stages of development in Step
House Cave—one the earth lodge and the other the pure pueblo or
kiva style; the former or earth construction situated at one end of the
cave, the latter stage at the other. This evidence of two stages of
(‘peoriey spurs
N Oly pue JaAuaq AsoyinoD ‘wesg “{ ‘Oar Aq Yydeisojoyg) ‘sreda1 s10Jaq ‘osnOFY 991]-YROQ—'94 “OLY
na ; . : J ¢

VOL.

SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS. COLLECTIONS

N
iS

1921

XPLORATIONS,

E

SMITHSONIAN

JoAuacy Aseqyinoy

“ue

>

ad

Al

‘Oor

)

(‘proryrey

Aq yde

150}0Y

€

e)
[)

I

DUBIN OLY pure

D

o1Te

d

ot ‘asnoyy

d01]

yeQ jo woo1

IPPIN—ZE “OLY

74 SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VOL, 72

development in the same cave is derived from both ceramic and archi-
tectural studies. The indications are that after the earth-lodge con-
dition was outgrown the floor of the cave where the evidence occurs
was used as a cemetery, and the survivors constructed their new
homes at the other end of the cave in the form of cliff houses.
Although no satisfactory scheme of the chronological sequence of
different types of Mesa Verde pottery has been worked out, it is
most important to pay some attention to its bearing on the age of the
above-mentioned buildings.

The mortuary pottery (fig. 79) from the Far View Tower cemetery
belongs to a primitive type quite unlike any yet recorded from Mesa
Verde cliff dwellings. The most exceptional features are the numer-
ous varieties of coiled, corrugated, undecorated ware. Figure 80,
restored froma fragment, and figure 81 show one of these exceptional
bowls. A similar bowl with a blackened inner surface occurs else-
where in the southwest, as on the Little Colorado, but has never been
described from the Mesa Verde. A comparison of ceramic objects
from the cemetery of Far View Tower (fig. 82) indicates it belongs
to an ancient type related to Earth Lodge A, described in the explora-
tions pamphlet for 1919.’ Attempts have been made to show an
architectural evolution from an earth lodge with roof and walls of
logs and mud into buildings constructed of well-laid horizontal stone
masonry. There is a chronological development in technique, form
and decoration of pottery from the simple to the complex, but those
who have studied cliff-house pottery have not yet succeeded in arrang-
ing the different kinds in chronological sequence.

Each ceramic area in our southwest has its distinct facies. Mesa
Verde pottery excels all others in its geometrical decoration. Con-
ventionalized designs and life figures on it are few in number and
crude in execution, but linear designs are abundant and varied. In
the prehistoric Hopi pottery, where there are few life figures and the
majority of designs are geometric or highly conventionalized, there is
nothing showing successive steps in the development of designs. In
those ruins where geometric figures (fig. 83) predominate there is
little to show their evolution. The pottery from the Mimbres Valley,
New Mexico, decorated with both fine geometric and realistic figures,
gives us no clue to evolution of different typical naturalistic designs.
Apparently the three types, geometric, conventional, and realistic, are
distinct from their very origin and it is difficult to prove that one type

1Smithsonian Misc. Coll., Vol. 72, No. 1.
NI
U1

NO. 15 SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1921

Fic. 78.— Mug ; black on white ware. Fire Temple House, Mesa Verde National
Park. Size: 4 by 4inches. (Photograph by De Lancey Gill.)

Fic. 79.—Archaic black on white ware; coarse decoration, Far View House
Village. Necropolis, Mesa Verde National Park. Size: 5% inches.
76 SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VOL.

N
to

Fic. 80.—Bowl; indented corrugated ware with black interior, Far View
House Village. Necropolis, Mesa Verde National Park. Size: 4% by 2%
inches. (Repaired by W. H. Egberts.)

Fic. 81.—Detail of indented corrugated bowl, figure 80, Far View House
Village. Necropolis, Mesa Verde National Park. (Drawn by Mrs. George
Mullett.)
NO. 15 SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1921 HIE

preceded another in evolution. For the present, then, our knowledge
of sequence of types of pottery is largely derived from descriptions
and not generalizations. But our archeological method permits us to
determine the main features of a stage of culture among the Indians
of which little is historically known. For instance, previous to the
year 1915 we were ignorant of the manners and customs of the people

Fic. 82.—Archaic black and white ware, coarse decoration,
Far View House Village. Necropolis, Mesa Verde National
Park. Size: 3% by 3 inches. (Photograph by De Lancey
Gill.)

who inhabited the Mimbres Valley, New Mexico. Documentary his-
tory is silent about them. Through archeological studies data are
being brought to light year by year by which our knowledge of these
Indians is greatly advanced. Pictures on ancient pottery often impart
more information than written descriptions and are most important in
the study of lost races. During the last few years Mr. E. D. Osborn,
of Deming, New Mexico, has from time to time sent to the bureau
many unique photographs of mortuary bowls (figs. 84-86), some of

6
—

/
4

SS

Fic. 83.—Decorated pottery from Mesa Verde National Park.
gular geometric design; b, hatched and terraced line; c, black triangles in
concentric series ; d, central triangle with curved lines at angles; e, unknown

geometric design; f, S-shaped design. (Drawn from photograph, by Mrs
George Mullett.)

a, trian-
NO. 15 SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, I9Q21 79

Fic. 84.—Decorated pottery from Mimbres Valley, New Mexico, Osborn
Collection. a, bird trap; b, gambling game; c, emergence of man from
lower world; d, white outline on black ground; e, two fishes; f, two negative
pictures of fishes. (Drawn from photograph, by Mrs. George Mullett.)
So SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VOL. 72

WW

/
HH); l)
f

Fic. 85.—Decorated pottery from Mimbres Valley, New Mexico, Osborn
Collection. a, unknown bird, from back, with outstretched wings; b, feath-
ers used in geometric decoration; c, three-headed turkey; d, parrot, head
often repeated as club-shaped design on Casas Grandes pottery; e, humming
birds and flowers; f, unidentified flowers. (Drawn from photograph, by
Mrs. George Mullett. )
NO. 15 SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1921 O1

Fic. 86.—Decorated pottery from Mimbres Valley, New Mexico, Osborn
Collection. a, unknown fish with feathered horn; b, animal heads like
swastika: c, sun with four tail feathers; d, geometric ornaments; e, geo-
metric ornaments; f, geometric ornaments. (Drawn from photograph, by
Mrs. George Mullett. )
82 SMITHSONIAN. MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VOL. 72

which are decorated with well-made pictures showing hitherto un-
known features of prehistoric life in that valley. Similar pictures
have been reproduced in former reports, but several specimens lately
discovered are the most instructive yet found. References to a few of
these close this account.

The food bowl (fig. 84a) apparently represents a hunter snaring
birds. He carries three nooses in his hand and in three of the snares
that are set are birds, while a fourth is empty. On the opposite side
of the bowl there are two other birds that possibly have been captured
earlier.

‘

Figure 84b represents a prehistoric game of “ stick dice.’’ In this
design three of the “canes” or dice are represented in a rectangular
enclosure around which are seated the players. The stakes are arrows
shown in a receptacle deposited above the picture.

Two fishes shown in figure 84e call to mind the unusual method of
representing certain life figures, men, birds, and other animals, on
other pieces of pottery. The background of the two fishes of figure 84f
is black, the bodies white; a negative picture common on ware from
Casas Grandes, Mexico, and peculiar to the inland basin in which the
Mimbres lies. The upper beak and eye of the head of the well-drawn
parrot is shown in figure 85d. This conventionalized head often
occurs without the body of a bird or any realistic likeness to a parrot
in the decoration of pottery from Casas Grandes and it is interesting to
note in this connection that Mr. Osborn claims to have found a mound
a few miles from Deming, New Mexico, in which the pottery 1s
practically the same as the well-known Casas Grandes ware.

The body of the animal represented in figure 86a is serpentine, but
the shape of the head and the possession of fins suggest a water
monster. The horn with a cluster of feathers occurs in a similar
painting without fins, and may be a representation of the Horned or
Plumed Serpent.

As is true of decorations on prehistoric Hopi ware, the feather
is sometimes used as a decorative element. The identification of the
use of this motive was made by a comparison of the undoubted bird
with outstretched wings and well-marked symbolic wing feathers
shown in figure 85a, and the existence of four clusters of a like design
in figure 85b. A study of over a hundred decorations, realistic, con-
ventional and geometrical, taken from Mimbres pottery indicates that
this lost people of southern New Mexico had reached a very high
stage of ceramic decoration. There is evidence that this art was
somewhat influenced from outside but mainly developed where it was
NO. 15 SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1921 83

found. It is one of several localized culture areas related to but not
necessarily belonging to the pueblo with which it has affinity. It is
most closely affiliated with that of Casas Grandes and the southern
part of the plateau in which it lies. The environment of this plateau
is Mexican, climatically speaking, and the culture will probably be
found to correspond. While superior to the Casas Grandes and all
other prehistoric Indian pottery in variety and the accuracy with
which human and animal figures are drawn, it shares enough with
it to hold a place in the same group.

ARCHEOLOGICAL COLLECTING IN THE DOMINICAN
REPUBLIC

While engaged in a biological exploration of this republic in 1921
and previous years, Dr. W. L. Abbott of Philadelphia incidentally
made a collection of aboriginal Indian antiquities on the north coast,
especially around Samana Bay and the region between it and Puerto
Plata, as well as in other parts of the island. No systematic excava-
tions were attempted ; the majority of the specimens were either pur-
chased or otherwise obtained. The localities where individual speci-
mens were said to have been found are mentioned in the legends under
the illustrations. This accession contains many specimens, one or two
of which merit special notice, even if it anticipates a final report.

There is in this collection an exceptionally good water jar of unique
form upon the neck of which are incised rude figures of animal or
human heads. The body of this jar (fig. 87), instead of being round
is roughly four-sided, its base flat, neck constructed bottle shaped.
Another bowl (fig. 88), spherical in form, is also unique and the
incised figure covers much of the upper surface.

In the collections of every West Indian archeologist there are speci-
mens of burnt clay heads called “zemis” (idols) by the natives.
These objects are not idols but broken handles of bowls, portions of
which sometimes adhere to them. As broken specimens they teach
very little, but if the jar from which they were broken be restored
they become instructive. The results of Mr. Egbert’s clever recon-
struction of the bowls to which three of the handles belong are shown
in figure 89, a, b, and c.

The decoration of Santo Domingo pottery, like that from prehistoric
Porto Rico, as a rule is limited to handles or lugs of bowls and vases.
These heads are attached to the rims of jars or bowls and give us a
means of classification. They fall naturally into three distinct types:
First, and most common (fig. 89a), those where the handles are oppo-
site each other, the handle represented as looking into the bowl;
84 SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VOL. 72

second, a less common type, those with handle faces looking outward ;
and third (fig. 89c), rarest of all, those with human or animal heads
attached to the rim by the back of the head or lying along the rim

Fic. 87—Unique vase. Cueva de Roma, Dominican Republic. Size: 8%
inches. U.S. Nat. Mus. No. 316445.

ww
4\

of the bowl with their axis parallel to it. Santo Domingo pottery as a
rule is a coarse biscuit ware, its surface waterworn but smooth, ap-
parently sometimes formerly covered with a red slip, showing, how-
ever, no evidence of a glaze. Although in bolder relief than that made
by the prehistoric potters who preceded the Carib in the Lesser
NO. 15 SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1921 85

Antilles, the ceramics of the aborigines of the Greater Antilles are
more closely related to the work of the Huaxtecs of Mexico than to
that of the aborigines of South America.

There are in the Abbott collection representatives of all types of
those Antillean idols characterized as three-pointed stones: one (figs.
go and gt) with head on the anterior point; another (fig. 92), a
second type characterized by a head on the side of the cone; a third

‘A

Ee Ei

ke

Fic. 88.—Globular bowl of thin ware. Locality, Yaqui del Norte, Dominican
Republic. Size: 534 inches. U.S. Nat. Mus. No. 293016.

type has the cone modified into a head; and lastly one smooth, undec-
orated specimen, referred toa fourth type. The specimen represented
in figure 93 belongs to the first type and has on each side of the base
of the cone two shallow circular pits; each of these pits represents a
joint of the fore and hind limbs, both of which are cut in relief on the
side. Although similar pairs of pits are known on several specimens
and accompanying forelegs or arms sometimes appear in relief, no
specimen with two pits both having relief representations of limbs
has been recorded.
86 SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VOL.

N
iS)

Fic. 89.—Restored pottery from shards collected in the Dominican Republic,
by Dr. W. L. Abbott. Restoration by W. H. Egberts. a, food bowl with effigies
on rim, facing inward; b, efhgy bowl with handles in form of heads, facing
upward; c, food bowl, handles in form of heads transversely placed on rim.

Size: a, 9% inches; b, 6% inches; c, 1634 inches. U.S. Nat. Mus. No. 316454.
NO. 15 SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, I92I 87

Fic. 90—Three-pointed stone of first type, from side. Constanza, Dominican
Republic. Size, 534 inches x 2% inches. U.S. Nat. Mus. No. 309536.

Fig. 92——Three-pointed stone of second type, from side. Constanza, Dominican
Republic. Size: 2% inches x 1% inches. U.S. Nat. Mus. No. 309537.
VOLA72

S COLLECTIONS

MISCELLANEOL

SMITHSONIAN

88

“eal 1g). UOMT oD

‘16 pue 06 ‘s3y UI UMOYS 218 do} pue apis asoyM ‘adA} ysS1y FO BUO}s pazuTod-sa1Y} JO SMATA IvaT PUP juoIy— £6 ‘oly

d D

NO. 15 SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1921 89

There are only seven known specimens of three-pointed stones of
the second group, and the U. S. National Museum now has five of
these, one of which we owe to Doctor Abbott.

He has also added to the museum collection the three especially fine
Antillean amulets shown in figure 94. The form of one—that figured
in the middle—is unique. These objects are supposed to have been

a. OD. (Or

_ fic 94.—Three marble amulets. Locality, Guayubin, Yaqui River, Domin-
ican Republic. a, 2% inches, U. S. Nat. Mus. No. 316448; b, 4% inches, No.

316446; c, 2x6 inches, No. 316447.

used as fetishes and to have been tied to the foreheads of warriors
when they went into battle, as described by Gomara and other early
writers.

The cylindrical object of clay with incised figure shown in figure 95
belongs to a type concerning the use of which there has been con-
siderable discussion. These specimens have been identified as rollers
for stamping pottery with the design incised on their surfaces ; but if
*LZgS60€ “SZbOIE “6SS60£
‘ON ‘SUIN “JEN 'S “N ‘SeyoUl We +921S ‘oyqndey “ON ‘SHY 38N “SN ‘seyout S91 ‘ON ‘SOW 38N'S “ ‘Seqout VEE 29ZIS
uvsiuruo(, “Apoq ay} UO UsIsap Surjyuridun 10 soriqey 3921S ‘adiouy, “DD ‘199 Aq poy = “BzuRysUO) ‘ssulyiew juousid surutid
Suryreur Joy ‘Arayjod Jo apeuw dwrejys— 46 ‘oTsT -J9]JOD “UOJe IU0}S—'96 “OTy] un Joy dureys peotapuyAgQ—S6 “ony

VOL, 72

OUS COLLECTIONS

MISCELLANI

SMITHSONIAN

NO. 15 SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, I92I QI

we judge from the similar objects of aborigines of Venezuela they
were more probably used for stamping fabrics or even for printing
certain totemistic or other designs on the face or body.

There is in the Abbott collection an artificially worked stone (fig.
96), about a foot in length, which appears to have been used as a

Fic. 98—Stone Cassava grinder. Yaqui del
Norte, Jarabacoa. Size: 1234 inches x 19% inches.
U. S. Nat. Mus. No. 292908.
baton, possibly a badge of office. One end bears incised designs
representing eyes and mouth suggesting a human head.

Figure 97 resembles outwardly a pestle, but a closer examination
shows that it is made of clay, a material impossible for an effective
grinding implement. It has many pits on the under surface (shown
in the figure) which suggests that it was functionally like the cylinder
above mentioned used for imprinting paint patterns on the human
body or woven fabrics.
g2 SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VOL. 72

One of several flat stone objects collected by Doctor Abbott having
extensions, two “ handles” on the rim, is shown in figure 98. In
shape and especially in the form and position of the handles these stone
implements resemble graters—generally of wood—specimens of which
are still in use in Haiti. Stone graters are novelties and those col-
lected by Doctor Abbott are the first of this material added to the
museum. It is probable that the surface of this stone was formerly
covered with some kind of matrix in which were set sharp stones
arranged in an ornamental design that has now completely disap-
peared, leaving no trace of its former presence.

All the above-mentioned specimens are referred to the Tainan or
most advanced neolithic culture of the West Indies, that originated
and flourished in the Haiti-Santo Domingo and Porto Rico areas in
prehistoric times. The three-pointed idols, stone collars, elbow stones,
and characteristic pottery separate the Porto Rico Tainan from that
of Jamaica, eastern Cuba, and the Bahamas, which belong to another
closely related culture that may be called Cuban Tainan.

The pottery of the aborigines of the Lesser Antilles belongs to an
allied prehistoric Tainan culture that was submerged by the Caribs,
who inhabited these islands when discovered by Europeans, at the
close of the 15th century. The fine addition that Doctor Abbott has
made to our West Indian collection all belongs to the true Tainan cul-
ture which reached its highest development in Espanola and Porto
Rico.

The archeological specimens from the West Indies presented to the
museum by Doctor Abbott are very valuable and as time goes on will
be more and more appreciated by students of the history of man in
the Antilles.

ARCHEOLOGICAL RECONNAISSANCE OF THE CAHOKIA AND
RELATED MOUND GROUPS

David I. Bushnell, Jr., collaborator of the Bureau of American
Ethnology, conducted during 1921 a reconnaissance of the remarkable
mound groups in the vicinity of the great Cahokia Mound. The in-
formation secured at this time, added to notes made during frequent
visits in the past, has been used in preparing the following sketch of
the interesting region.

It is quite evident that long before Pére Marquette discovered
and passed the mouth of the Missouri, during his journey down
the Mississippi early in the summer of 1673, the region immedi-
ately below the confluence of the two great streams had been an
important center, a gathering place, of the native inhabitants of the
INO 105) SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1921 93

valley. Mound groups, village sites, and burial places remain to
indicate the presence of a numerous people before the coming of
Europeans, and the innumerable objects of native origin encountered

WORTH GROUP

SCALE IN MILES:

Fic. 99.—Map showing location of mound groups.

in the region bear evidence of their skill in working the available
materials.

Immediately below the mouth of the Missouri, on the left or
Illinois bank of the Mississippi, the river bluffs become more distant
from the stream and consequently the lowlands are in some places
6 or 8 miles in width from east to west. Shallow lakes covered much

7
O04 SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VOLE /2

of the surface and some parts were heavily timbered. As indicated
on the accompanying map, figure 99, four mound groups stood in the
lowlands east of the Mississippi and a fifth was on the opposite bank,
land now covered by the city of St. Louis. And as is shown on the
map the five groups were placed with a certain degree of order to one
another, with the great mound, Cahokia, rising near the center of the
area.

But who were the builders of the mounds, the most important
groups in the Mississippi Valley? The question may never be
definitely answered although it is more than probable they should
be attributed to a tribe or tribes known in historic times but who may
have become greatly reduced in numbers and relative importance
before the coming of the French. Evidently the historic Algonquian
tribes did not reach the eastern bank of the Mississippi until about
the beginning of the seventeenth century, and it is doubtful if others
of this linguistic family had preceded them. Siouan tribes when movy-
irg from the eastward may have traversed the region, but there is no
reason whatsoever to attribute the great mound groups which form
the subject of this sketch to either the Algonquian or Siouan tribes.
The works were probably raised by a southern tribe, a southern people
who at some time before the arrival of the Algonquian tribes, or
the migration of the Siouan tribes from the eastward, occupied the
region, later to move elsewhere, possibly to return southward. These
may have been the ancient Natchez, the Chickasaw, or some other
Muskhogean tribe of whom we possess no historic record ; however,
a careful examination of the mode of construction and the contents
of one or more of the mounds may enable us to arrive at some con-
clusions regarding their origin.

The great Cahokia Mound which rises from the level alluvial plain
near the center of the area, is somewhat less than 6 miles east of the
Mississippi and 10 miles east of south of the mouth of the Missouri.
It is a truncated pyramid, of rectangular form, with a broad terrace
_ extending from the south side which continues in a graded way or
approach. The sides of the work face the cardinal points, as do those
of the lesser rectangular mounds of the group. Its maximum eleva-
tion is about 100 feet. Its extreme length including the approach is
1,080 feet, and its width from east to west is 710 feet. The base
covers an area of approximately 16 acres. Viewed from the east, as
in figure 100, it appears quite regular in outline and is clearly defined
from base to summit. A small conical mound formerly stood on the
S, 192i

XPLORATION

1B

SMITHSONIAN

NO. 15

‘yNOs dy} UO YyOROIdde popess dy} YAM ‘apis usI}sed dT,

‘elLyOyeJ—OOI ‘ONT

96 SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VOL. 72

upper plateau near the southeastern corner but it was removed many
years ago. The northwestern portion of the great mound is deeply
gullied and very irregular in contour ; 1t is a question whether this part
of the structure was ever completed.

Cahokia is the largest earthwork in the United States and one of
the most remarkable monuments left by the native tribes. [*ortunately
it remains in its original condition, practically untouched since the
coming of Europeans, and in this condition it should be preserved.
With each succeeding generation, as the lesser mounds and other
earthworks disappear by reason of the cultivation of the soil or the
requirement of the land for other purposes, this great terraced work
is destined to become of greater popular interest and immediate steps
should be taken to make certain its preservation.

The several groups, as indicated on the map, may now be described
in detail.

NORTH GROUP

Eleven mounds constitute this group which stands on the north
side of Long Lake, near the station of Mitchell. They are about
three and one-half miles east of the Mississippi, nearly midway across
the lowlands and some seven miles west of north of Cahokia. When
the group was surveyed March 13, 1900, it was not possible to deter-
mine the original shape of several of the mounds. The land had been
cultivated for many years and this, with the constant washing and
wearing away of the surface, had caused the works to assume an
entirely different appearance from their original condition.

The largest mound of this group stood apart and to the west of the
main cluster. It was practically destroyed years ago at the time of
the construction of two railroads which pass through it, but parts of
the work may now be traced between and on either side of the tracks.
Many remarkable objects of stone and copper were recovered during
the destruction of the structure.

As is shown on the map the large mound stood to the west. The
mound nearest it on the east, as determined by the survey of 1900,
was 1,200 feet distant and at that time had a maximum elevation of
9.3 feet above the plain, and was of circular form with a diameter of
approximately 237 feet. Eastward from this mound are other units
of the group. The highest mound of the group at that time measured
10.4 feet, but undoubtedly the large work to the west was originally
much higher than any now standing.
INO) - ILS SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1921 Q7

South of the lake, away from the main group, is a single, isolated
mound. Others may have stood within the area, all traces of which
have disappeared.

CENTRAL OR CAHOKIA GROUP

Surrounding the great Cahokia Mound, which has already been
briefly described, were many lesser works, about seventy in number,
some of which were more than 40 feet in height. Some were rec-
tangular, others were circular and although at first glance they appear
to have been placed without definite order, nevertheless it is quite
evident that in several instances they were so arranged as to create
inclosed areas, thus conforming with the position of the mounds of
the three lesser groups to the north, west, and south of the central
cluster.

Unfortunately the large majority of the mounds east and west of the
great central structure have been much reduced and modified by the
plow, while several have been practically destroyed and a slight rise is
all that remains to indicate their position. The inclosure formed of
the smaller mounds on the east is clearly defined and gives the impres-
sion of having been intentionally planned and arranged, but for what
purpose may never be determined. And although many of the lesser
mounds have thus lost their original form and appearance, Cahokia
remains the most important and impressive native work in the Valley
of the Mississippi. As the great mound now stands it should be pre-
served: to permit its destruction would be a calamity, an irrepar-
able loss to future generations.

The rectangular work immediately southwest of Cahokia was
occupied from 1810 until 1813 by a small body of Trappist monks,
during which time their garden was on the southern terrace of the
great mound. According to the survey of 1875-1876 from which all
measurements now given are derived, this lesser mound was 25 feet
in height, its base line from north to south was 180 feet and from
east to west 200 feet. Just south of this is a small circular work. A
short distance east of south of the latter stands a conical mound which
rises 44 feet above the plain, having a diameter at base of 150 feet.
Immediately east of this is a rather irregular mound 46 feet in height,
and possibly other units of this remarkable cluster were even higher
and more extensive than these. A rectangular mound southeast of
the preceding was, according to the survey mentioned, 40 feet in
height, with its base extending 300 feet from north to south and 250
feet from east to west. This reference to several of the lesser works
98 SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VOL. 72

Fic. 101—Airplane photograph showing Cahokia in upper right center.
Mounds to the south and southwest are also defined, likewise the country
northward. Camera pointed west of north.

lic. 102.—Airplane photograph showing Cahokia in the unner left corner.
The rectangular mound in the center of the picture, just south of Cahokia,
rises 46 feet above the original surface. A light snow covers the ground.
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, I92I 99

NO. 15

A ea is se
OS lg

Airplane photograph showing mound north of Cahokia, partly

Fig. 103.
removed. Camera pointed west.

les west of

Fic. 104.—Airplane photograph showing mound about 1% mi
Cahokia. One of the most perfect of the group, and probably quite similar in
appearance to the large mound of the St. Louis group which was removed in

1869. Camera pointed northeast.
100 SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VOL. 72

will serve to convey an idea of the magnitude of the group as a
whole ; the most important prehistoric site in the entire valley.

It is of interest to be able to reproduce at this time four aerial
pictures of units of the Cahokia group, and these are believed to be
the first photographs of American mounds or earthworks to be taken
from the air. The negatives, with others, were made during the winter
of 1921 and 1922 by Lieut. Harold R. Wells and Lieut. Ashley C.
McKinley, stationed at Scott Field, Belleville, Hlinois, under instruc-
tions of Major Frank M. Kennedy.

Unfortunately, weather conditions during the winter were not
favorable for aerial photography, and although many attempts were
made ground haze and smoke interfered greatly with the work. As
Major Kennedy wrote in part February 6, 1922, after mentioning the
mines and factories in the vicinity of the mounds: “ These activities
produce a large amount of smoke which seems to settle near the
ground and form a blanket two or three hundred feet thick.” Never-
theless the four pictures are shown to record the first attempt to
photograph mounds from an airplane.

On the summit of the bluffs northeast of Cahokia, as indicated on
the map, are two mounds of great interest which command a wide
view of the lowlands extending to the Mississippi, and beyond. Both
are of conical form and rise 30 feet or more above the original surface.
One, as it appears from the foot of the bluff, is shown in figure 105.

A view of the bluffs, with the beginning of the lowlands which
slope westward to the bank of the Mississippi, is reproduced in
figure 106. This is looking northward from a point southeast of
Cahokia.

Extending from the main group which surrounded the great mound,
in a direction south of west and following a slight ridge, is a chain of
works which terminated in an irregular group of smaller mounds near
the bank of the Mississippi. It is to be regretted that all units of
this group have now disappeared.

WEST OR ST. LOUIS GROUP

There formerly stood on the right, or west bank of the Mississippi,
on the summit of the high bluff within the limits of the present city
of St. Louis, an interesting group of mounds, twenty-seven or more in
number. All have now disappeared but fortunately their positions
were indicated on early maps of the city.

One of the earliest as well as most detailed descriptions of the
mounds was that prepared by members of the Long Expedition,
more than a century ago. At that time they stood north of the settled
NO. 15 SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, I9Q2I Io!

Fic. 105 —Conical mound on summit of the bluff northeast of Cahokia.

% | rd .
be y Ly
Kf!
Se fA
p hy
7 :
S VfL

etn > ,

Fic. 106.—Looking northward from near the road leading to Belleville,
showing the eastern border of the lowlands which extend westward to the
Mississippi.

ax ora i. calms aCe
‘AIO ayy Jo Jaed

Q UJdYIIOU IY} UI puNnoWw a8ay] ay} SurmoysS ‘orgi ‘tddisstsst~W ay} JO YUL STOUT] 9} WoIZ smo] S—ZOI ‘DIY

ee
DSS.

VOL.

CTIONS

COLLE

OUS

tSLLANE

MISCE

SMITHSONIAN

102
IN@G 10S) SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1921 103

portion of the town and were in their primitive condition, but soon
the settlement was to extend northward and the mounds were destined
to be leveled. A view of St. Louis from the east, taken from the
Illinois bank of the Mississippi during the year 1840, is reproduced in
figure 107. Far to the north of the principal structures of the town,
on the extreme right of the picture, stands the large detached mound.
The main group was below, probably near the middle of the picture.
The large isolated work was more than 1,400 feet north of the main
cluster which formed an inclosure, thus conforming with the arrange-
ment of the mounds on the opposite side of the river. This most
important work was of oval form, with the maximum diameter of its
base, from north to south, 319 feet, and from east to west 158 feet.
The dimensions of the summit plateau were 139 feet and 11 feet.
Height 34 feet. On the eastern side, facing the river, was a terrace
resembling that on the south side of Cahokia, which was 79 feet from
east to west and probably extended the entire length of the structure.
At the time of the destruction of the great mound in the year 1869
a most remarkable cavity was discovered within it. This was a burial
chamber which could be traced for a distance of 70 feet and part had
previously been removed. It had probably been constructed of logs
over which the mass of earth had been deposited and shaped. Within
were encountered human remains in the last stages of decay, and
associated with these were vast quantities of shell beads and other
objects. This was truly a remarkable structure and one which should
have been preserved, but unfortunately it shared the fate of the lesser
mounds of the group, all traces of which have now disappeared.

SOUTH GROUP

The southern part of the American Bottom—a name long applied
to the lowlands occupied by the ancient works mentioned in this
sketch—across the Mississippi from Jefferson Barracks, becomes -
quite narrow, the bluffs approach the river and are, in some places, a
scant mile from the low marshy ground which was formerly covered
with water the greater part of the year. But the land extending along
the foot of the bluffs at this point was evidently at one time occupied
by a village of some importance which stood in the midst of a group
of mounds. This may be designated the south group and in some
respects resembles the north or Mitchell group, already described.

The site was visited by the writer during the latter part of October,
1921, at which time a plan of the group was made, this now being
included on the general map. As is indicated there are now seven
1O4 SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VOL. 72

mounds standing on the lowland and one, a large conical structure,
on the bluff to the east. It is said that until a few years ago, at the
time of the construction of several railroad embankments, five mounds
extended in a row southward from the one now remaining nearest
the bluffs, consequently these, together with the five now remaining,
formed an inclosure quite similar to the north group. Northward
from the main cluster or inclosure, are two detached mounds, both
large and prominent. The group as a whole and as it originally stood,
must have been as interesting and imposing as either the north or

Fic. 108.— Village site and mounds at Bixby, with bluffs beyond.

west groups as already described, and all were probably of equal
importance to their builders.

Unfortunately, the majority of the remaining units of the group
have been greatly reduced and modified by the plow and consequently
it is not possible to determine their original size or form. However, it
is evident the second mound from the south, on the west near the
Mississippi, was rectangular and quite large. It appears to have been
oriented with its sides facing the cardinal points, as were the units of
the other groups, including the great mound. At the present time
it is worn down by long-continued cultivation and now measures about
12 feet in height, with a diameter of 200 feet. A photograph looking
eastward from the summit of this work is reproduced in figure 108.
INO D5 SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1921 105

This is a view over the plain once occupied by a native village and
shows the bluffs in the distance. Fragmentary pottery and objects of
stone are now found scattered over the intervening ground.

As has been mentioned, and as is shown on the map, a conical mound
stands on the bluff just east of the main group. It is not on the
highest point, not on the summit, but on a commanding spot visible
from miles away, north and south, and from far westward across the
Mississippi. It is on the bluff in the exact middle of figure 108, and a
closer view, taken from the south, is shown in figure 109. This
resembles the two mounds on the bluffs northeast of Cahokia and
is of equal interest.

Fic. 109.—Conical mound on bluff east of Bixby.

No other area of equal size in the entire valley of the Mississippi
appears to have been of so great importance to the native tribes as that
mentioned in this sketch. Here they reared their greatest monument,
Cahokia, and surrounded it with many lesser works. The several
distinct clusters should be considered units of a greater group, in
which the massive terraced work stood as the central structure. This
was the gathering place of a numerous people, but when or whence
they came can never be known. Now, two and one-half centuries
after the region was first entered by the French, at which time Illinois
tribes were occupying small villages near the banks of the Mississippi,
the majority of the ancient mounds have disappeared, but Cahokia
remains and it should ever stand. It must be saved as have the
pyramids of Egypt; a monument of another race whose origin is
shrouded in mystery.
100 SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VOL, 72

ARCHEOLOGICAL INVESTIGATIONS AT PUEBLO BONITO,
NEW MEXICO

Mr. Neil M. Judd, curator of American archeology, U. S. National
Museum, began work during the year on a five-year archeological
project undertaken by the National Geographic Society, mentioned
in the Smithsonian Exploration Pamphlet for 1920,’ centering about
Pueblo Bonito, one of the largest and most important prehistoric
ruins in the United States. Mr. Judd left Washington for New
Mexico on May 1 and shortly thereafter began operations in the

Fic. 110.—Pueblo Bonito, from the northwest, showing the vast accumula-
tions of fallen wall material and wind-blown sand which cover the ruin. The
present height of the north wall is indicated by the three figures in the left
ee (Photograph by O. C. Havens. Courtesy of the National Geographic
Society. )

great ruin; his staff consisted of seven assistants with Navaho and
Zuni Indians employed for the actual work of excavation.

The first few weeks were largely devoted to development of a water
supply sufficient for the expedition camp, to transporting equipment
and provisions from the railroad, 62 miles distant, and to removal of
several hundred tons of fallen wall material and wind-blown sand
which had accumulated in that section of the ruin selected for the
season’s explorations. Following these preliminaries attention was

*Smithsonian Misc. Coll., Vol. 72, No. 6.
INO, 1S: SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1921 107

directed, respectively, to the central and southeastern portions of the
pueblo. The central wing was considered of prime importance since
it included the Great Kiva, the civil and religious heart of Pueblo
Bonito; the southeastern quarter was chosen because its masonry,
apparently the most recent of all in the village, suggested that antiq-
uities found in this area would illustrate the very apex of cultural
advancement by the ancient Bonitians, thus forming an index for sub-
sequent discoveries.

ie

Fic. 111.—Zufii workmen pointing out features of the masonry in Pueblo
Bonito, which is far superior to that in their own village. The skill exhibited
by the ancient artisans was a source of constant admiration to these modern
Pueblos. (Photograph by Neil M. Judd. Courtesy of the National Geo-
graphic Society. )

Altogether, fifty secular rooms and five kivas were excavated during
the summer. In addition, a number of dwellings previously opened
were cleared of their individual accumulations of wind-deposited sand
and other débris. An outstanding result of this work was identifica-
tion of three distinct types of masonry, each illustrating the dominant
construction method at a given period during occupancy of the village.
It is, of course, still too early to designate the factors which brought
about these various styles in building, just as any present effort to
trace the ground area formerly occupied by each of the three types
108 SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VOL. 72

Fic. 112.—Central portion of Pueblo Bonito, from the south, showing the
north cliffs of Chaco Canyon towering above the ruin. Some of the rooms
were so large that the initial work of excavation could be done directly with
teams. (Photograph by O. C. Havens. Courtesy of the National Geographic
Society. )

Fic. 113.—An excavated kiva in Pueblo Bonito, showing the low encircling
bench and, above this, the roofing timbers which overlap above the pilasters.
At the left will be seen the decayed fragments of upright hewn planks which
stood between the dome-shaped roof and the circular wall of the chamber.
(Photograph by O. C. Havens. Courtesy of the National Geographic Society. )
NO ES SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1921 109

e

Fic. 114.—Excavating the Great Kiva. The block of masonry in the middle
is the fireplace; that in the lower right, an inter-pillar compartment. The piles
of stone at the top consist of blocks retained for repair of the ancient walls.
(Photograph by O. C. Havens. Courtesy of the National Geographic Society.)

a ik. Dae
oe . . te a one ee “
3 ng - - ‘a me

* :

Jerr: Sacre ee

Fic. 115—The Great Kiva and its surrounding rooms, as seen from the
cliffs north of Pueblo Bonito. This remarkable structure is 52 feet in diam-
eter; it was the largest and most important ceremonial room in the village. A
trench for stratigraphical examination of the west refuse mound will be noted
at the upper left center. (Photograph by O. C. Havens. Courtesy of the
National Geographic Society.)

8
I1O SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VOL, 72

would be premature. Dwellings were razed and replaced by other
structures as Pueblo Bonito grew in size and population.

Those walls which appear to have formed the nucleus of the village
are crude and irregular; the rooms they inclose are relatively small
and low of ceiling. In contrast to these, walls of the second type
exhibit an infinite amount of patience and attention to detail. They
consist of rather large uniform blocks of friable sandstone, dressed
on the face only, laid in adobe mud and chinked with innumerable
small, thin chips. FEqually marked in its variation from that in the
oldest houses is the masonry of the third type mentioned. In this,
uniformly thin tablets of laminate sandstone were utilized with a
minimum of adobe and little or no chinking. Larger blocks were
frequently laid in bands both for the decorative effect produced and
as bonds to hold the masonry veneer to the earthy core of the wall.
Beneath the floors of a large number of the rooms excavated during
1921 were found the razed walls of older structures in which a differ-
ent style of construction prevailed.

These principal variations in masonry may represent merely local
developments—the will of ascendant influences in Pueblo Bonito—but
it seems more reasonable to believe that each came in upon a wave
of immigration from other regions. Among the collections made
during the summer are specimens of pottery characteristic of the Mesa
Verde cliff-dwellings in Colorado, of the prehistoric ruins in the
Kayenta and Gila River districts of Arizona and of the Rio San
Francisco, New Mexico. The very number of these objects would
indicate not that they had been introduced through intertribal com-
merce but rather that their makers had come to dwell at Pueblo Bonito,
bringing with them their own distinctive arts and industries. On the
other hand, it is manifest that the prehistoric Bonitians maintained
an active trade with other primitive folk at a great distance from their
terraced village in Chaco Canyon. The quantity of Pacific coast
shell—used for beads, pendants and other ornaments—copper bells
from central Mexico and especially skeletons of the great macaw
(Ara macao), furnish abundant proof that adventurers from Pueblo
Bonito or friendly traders from distant valleys braved the rigors of
open desert travel long before the Spanish conquistadores introduced
the horse and other beasts of burden.

The circular kivas in Pueblo Bonito, as elsewhere, were both
council chambers where clan representatives met for consultation and
religious sanctuaries in which secret ceremonies were enacted and prep-
arations made for public rituals to be held in the open courts of the
IN@s JES) SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, I92I Te

sie 4

Fic. 116.—Repairing third-story walls in Pueblo Bonito. Some of these high
walls had been so weakened by vandalism and the elements that their repair
was necessary before excavation could safely be undertaken beneath. The
work will serve, also, to preserve the present height of the walls for many
years to come. (Photograph by O. C. Havens. Courtesy of the National
Geographic Society. )
2 SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VOL. 72

Fic. 117,—Repaired walls of the third type of masonry, showing occasional
bands of thicker blocks inserted for strength and decorative effect. Corner
doorways are not uncommon in Pueblo Bonito; they provided a direct means
of communication between neighboring dwellings occupied by members of the
same family or clan. (Photograph by Neil M. Judd. Courtesy of the National
Geographic Society. )
NO. 15 SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, I921 I13

Fic, 118.—A Zuni Indian in an ancient Bonitian doorway. The excellence of
the masonry and the trueness of the corners are well illustrated in this picture ;
a typical lintel of pine poles will be noted at the top. (Photograph by Neil M.
Judd. Courtesy of the National Geographic Society.)
Ii4 SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VOL. 72

Fic. 119.—A trench 20 feet deep was cut in the west refuse mound in order
to obtain chronological data. Potsherds deposited during the early occupancy
of Pueblo Bonito were quite different from those found near the surface of the
mound. (Photograph by O. C. Havens. Courtesy of the National Geographic
Society.)
NOM 5 SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1921 II5

village. These important structures were constructed both below
the level of the plazas and among the living rooms, in which latter
case the surrounding walls were so arranged as to simulate the required
subterranean position. In certain features of construction and equip-
ment, however, Bonitian kivas—judging from the five already ex-
cavated—differ from those heretofore examined in other sections of

The ruin
Its dwellings

were terraced upward from two inner courts; its outer wall was unbroken except for
Courtesy of the National Geo-

xcavations thus far have disclosed but one entrance, that

(Photograph by Charles Martin.

Fic. 120—Pueblo Bonito as seen from the north wall of Chaco Canyon.

is semicircular in shape and covers more than three acres of ground.

Ga

n

s

°

2

sy

‘3B

Ss

(eB) a
ao 2
oe

D2
¥ Ovo
Bn Oo
5 oW

=
BSL
- co

—_— _

BES
o)
Siem
mu OD

the Southwest. The ventilator shaft is connected with a manhole in
the room through a hidden tunnel ; sub-floor chambers are sometimes,
but not always, present; the primary roof supports or pilasters have
been so specialized as to lose their original stability and to take on a
new function, that of depositories for ceremonial offerings.

The Great Kiva possesses several noteworthy features not found in
the lesser structures of its kind. It is a room of exceptional size,
116 SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VOL. 72

being 52 feet (15.85 m.) in diameter with a ceiling formerly 11 feet
(3.35 m.) high. The central portion of its flat roof was supported by
four masonry pillars each of which had a separate foundation of low
grade, soft coal. On the east and west sides of the chamber, between
the pillars, were built-in receptacles, probably for containing cere-
monial paraphernalia. A fire box with protective screen stood at the

Fic. 121.—A naive example of Bonitian engineering. In an obvious attempt
to hold up a huge section of cliff which threatened to topple upon their village,
the ancients placed pine props under the weathered section and covered these
with a great terraced mass of masonry. The north wall of Pueblo Bonito
stands at the left. (Photograph by Charles Martin. Courtesy of the National
Geographic Society. )

south side and, opposite this, a flight of narrow steps led to an elevated
room in which a central block of masonry represented the “ altar.”
I-xcavation of the kivas and secular rooms in Pueblo Bonito is
contributing in large measure to our knowledge of the prehistoric
sedentary peoples of the Southwest. Chronological data from the
vast accumulations which comprise the adjacent refuse mounds is
expected to illustrate not only the character and extent of local cul-
tural development but to serve also as a medium of correlation between
the ancient Bonitians and other aboriginal peoples of the south-
NO™ LS SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1921 117

western United States. Through such data it is hoped ultimately to
arrive at the approximate age of this famous center of pre-Columbian
civilization.

The National Geographic Society proposes, as an essential feature
of its Pueblo Bonito Expedition, to conduct dependent researches
which will seek to determine the ancient source of water supply ; the
agricultural possibilities of Chaco Canyon in prehistoric times; the
rapidity of subsequent sedimentation; the age and probable source
of the large timbers used in roofing the dwellings of Pueblo Bonito, and
the geophysical changes, if any, brought about since abandonment
of the great ruin. These are lines of investigation which may result
in information of far-reaching significance and yet they have been
generally neglected, heretofore, in connection with archeological
explorations.

ARCHEOLOGICAL FIELD-WORK IN SOUTH DAKOTA AND
MISSOURI

In the fall of 1921 Mr. W. E. Myer, a voluntary collaborator of
the Bureau of American Ethnology, investigated sites in South Dakota
and western Missouri, known to have been occupied by the Omahas
and Osages in early historic times, after they had come in contact with
the whites but before they had been changed thereby to any con-
siderable extent.

Especial attention was paid to any resemblance to the ancient cul-
tures found in the valleys of the Ohio, Cumberland, and Tennessee
rivers. This line of research was suggested by certain traditions of
both the Omahas and Osages, as well as some of the other branches of
the great Siouan linguistic family, that they had at one time lived
east of the Mississippi River, on the Ohio, and elsewhere, and after
many wanderings, stopping here and there for years, finally reached
their present sites in South Dakota and western Missouri.

THE OMAHA SITES

Mr. Francis La Flesche reported that the traditions of his people,
the Omahas, stated that they had occupied two important villages on
what the Omahas call “‘ The Big Bend of the Xe,” at some time in the
seventeenth or eighteenth century. These traditions also told of
many important events while the Omahas dwelt on these two sites.

Aided by these traditions, Mr. Myer was enabled to locate these
two ancient villages. He found one of these on the Big Sioux River,
at its junction with Split Rock River, designated Split Rock site in
this report.
118 SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VOL. 272

He found the other site where the Rock Island Railroad now
crosses the Big Sioux River, about 10 miles southeast of Sioux Falls.
It is designated here the Rock Island site.

ROCK ISLAND SITE

Sometime in the seventeenth century the Omaha and Poncas re-
moved from the Pipestone regions 1n Minnesota and finally, after
some further wanderings, built a fortified town on the Big Sioux
River at the Rock Island site. While living in this fortified Rock
Island site they were attacked and defeated by an enemy, most prob-
ably the Dakotas, and finally forced to leave the region. Before
leaving, they buried their dead from this fight in a mound on this
site. This burial tradition was confirmed by excavations made by
Mr. A. G. Risty and Mr. F. W. Pettigrew, who report finding a
considerable amount of human bones in one of the mounds. Some
glass beads and small copper bells of white man’s make were also
found in one of the mounds on this site. There is evidence that this
site was occupied somewhere between 1700 and 1725.

SPLIT ROCK SITE

After leaving the Rock Island site, the Omahas and Poncas roved
without long permanent settlements for several years, but finally
returned to their beloved Xe and built a permanent village at Split
Rock site on “ The Big Bend” at the junction of the Big Sioux and
Split Rock rivers.

The month of October, 1921, was spent exploring this Split Rock
site. Many interesting relics of the Omahas were here unearthed,
which throw new light on the life of these people before they had
been very much changed by contact with the whites.

There is a group of 30 mounds on the ridge between the two rivers
marking the site of that portion of the old town occupied by the
Omahas. On a hill one-half mile to the east was a group of ten more
mounds, occupied by the Poncas before they split away from the
Omahas at this old town.

On the tall ridge 14 miles to the west, by following the clues furn-
ished by the traditions, three low mounds were discovered. These
were said by the traditions to have been on the site of the lookouts for
the main village. These lookout mounds command a view, ranging
from 6 to 15 miles, on all sides. The mounds on this Split Rock site
appear to have nearly all been used for burial.
INO aS) SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1921 I1g

The exploration of mound No. 1 showed that the Indians had
selected for its site the summit of a beautiful little knoll on the edge
of the steep bluff-like bank of Split Rock River. In the soil of this
summit they dug a shallow pit, about 12 feet by 6 feet, and 2 feet deep.
In this shallow pit bones belonging to five bodies had been placed.
Several of these bodies appeared to have been buried after decay of the
flesh. One body appeared to have been buried in the flesh, closely
flexed, and this human bundle placed in the pit. The position of the

Fic. 122.—A portion of the layer of human bones on floor of charnel pit.

skeleton of a horse with a crushed frontal bone showed that when
this body-bundle had been placed in the pit, a large horse, about seven
years of age, had been led to the knoll and there killed, on the edge
of the pit, by the side of this body-bundle. Then, over all these, a low,
round-topped mound, 60 feet across base and 53 feet in height, had
been raised.

Mound No. 2, the largest mound of the group, was near the center
of the village. It was round-topped, 110 feet across base, and 10 feet
high. This mound proved to be of considerable importance. In
beginning its construction, a rectangular charnel pit, 12 feet by 14
feet, and 2 feet deep, had been dug in the surface of the soil near the
center of the town. This empty pit was then thoroughly coated with
a white layer, about } inch in thickness. This white coating was
made from calcined bones.
120 SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VOL. 72

The bottom and sides of this white pit were then probably covered
with soft furs. This is indicated by a thin black layer of animal
matter next to the white coating.

On the floor of this fur-lined pit, bones representing about 50
human beings had been laid. These bones had been brought from
elsewhere after the decay of flesh. The bones presented the appear-
ance of belonging to bodies which had either been left unburied, as
on some battle field, or of belonging to scaffold burials. This solid
layer of compressed broken and decayed human bones entirely covered
the floor of the charnel pit to a depth of from 2 inches to 6 inches.

Fic. 123.—Bone flesher.

Portions of this layer of human bones, before it had been disturbed,
are shown in figure 122.

On top of this solid mass of human bones traces of the thin fur layer
were also found. Over this soft, warm fur covering a layer of bark
was laid, and over this bark earth had been spread to a depth of from
3 to 6 inches. This layer of earth was then smoothed and pressed
down, and on this surface a white coating, similar to that on the
bottom and sides, had been spread. Thus, these human bones, en-
closed in their layer of warm furs, were completely incased by this
white layer, very much as the filling of a pie is enclosed by the crust.
Only one small, cylindrical copper bead was found with all this
mass of bones.

On the exterior of this communal charnel pit, on all four sides, the
separate burials of several adults and two small children were found.
With these outer burials were found several objects. Amongst these
was the bone flesher shown in figure 123. With a compact bundle of
NO. 15 SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1921 I2I

bones belonging to two adults was a small pile of 30 circular orna-
dD
ments of shell like those shown in figure 124. These ornaments had
probably been attached to some garment in the original temporary
burial and removed from the decayed garment when placed with the
’ 5
bones in this new burial.

Fic. 124.—Shell ornaments.

No object of white man’s manufacture was found on this site.
There is evidence that this site was occupied by the Omahas some-
where between 1725 and 1775.

The Omahas and their kindred, the Poncas, lived together at this
Split Rock site. It was here that some of the most important events
in the history of the Omahas and Poncas took place. While living
here the long hostilities between the still united Omahas and Poncas
and their old enemies, the Cheyennes and Arikaras, were ended by
[22 SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VOL. 72

a peace which was concluded with great ceremony at this Omaha-
Ponca town. At the urgent request of the Arikara the sacred chant
and dance of the calumet was used to cement this great peace pact. In
this manner the Omahas and Poncas for the first time came into
contact with this the most profoundly binding and sacred ceremony
known to savage man.

At this site the age-long association between the kindred Omahas
and Poncas was broken. The tradition does not give the cause of
their separation; but for some reason the Poncas, after having lived
with the Omahas through their long slow wanderings in the regions
east of the Mississippi and through the lower and middle reaches of
the Missouri Valley, left their kindred and formed a separate tribe.

It was at this site that the Omahas first came to possess the white
man’s horse, which was to play such an important part in the later
Omaha life. The tradition tells that neither the Poncas nor the
Omahas had possessed horses until after their separation at this site.
The finding of the skeleton of a horse in a mound on this site is
one of the many evidences which confirm this tradition that the
Omahas remained at this site after the Poncas split away, and shows
the Omahas were still living here when they first obtained horses.

OSAGE SITES

In Vernon and Bates counties, western Missouri, near the junction
of the Osage and Marmiton rivers, Mr. Myer found several sites
known to have been occupied by the Osage Indians in early historic
times, shortly after they had come in contact with the whites.

Two of these early historic Osage sites, the village of the Grand
Osage and the Little Osage village, were probably located. These
were visited by Zebulon Pike in his journey of exploration in 1806.

The site of the village of the Grand Osage was at the junction
of the Marmiton and Little Osage rivers, in Vernon County.

The probable site of the Little Osage village of Pike was at the
Perry and MacMahan coal mine, about 2 miles northwest of the
village of the Grand Osage. Old settlers stated that decayed lodge
poles were still standing and many other signs of Indian occupancy
were to be seen at this Little Osage site as late as 1840. The present
appearance of this site is shown in figure 125.

A considerable collection of surface finds from this site shows no
objects of white man’s manufacture; but local tradition says frag-
ments of brass kettles, old gun barrels, early bullets, and other objects
of white man’s manufacture have been found here.
NO: 15 SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, I92I1 [23

Fic. 126.—Halley’s Bluff.
124 SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VOL. 72

f cache pits at base of Halley’s Bluff.

Fic. 127.—Site-o
NO= ES SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1921 125

Two of these surface finds throw light on the extent of aboriginal
barter. One of these is a broken obsidian implement. The nearest
source of this material is probably in the Rocky Mountains, some
1,000 miles to the west. Another is a shard of Mesa Verde pottery,
the nearest source of which is in the Mesa Verde culture region around
the southwestern corner of Colorado, about 800 miles to the west.

The largest Osage village in Vernon County is at what is still known
as Old Town, on Old Town creek, about 34 miles south of Pike’s
village of the Grand Osage. This site covers about 4o acres and is
the best known of any of the Osage sites. It has yielded a large
amount of iron axes, gun barrels, gun locks, fragments of brass
kettles, glass beads, and other articles of early white manufacture.
Along with these large quantities of shell beads, flint arrow heads,
broken pipes, and other objects of purely aboriginal origin were
found. Old Town culture furnishes an excellent example of Indian
culture in the days of early contact with the whites.

The most picturesque Indian site in this Osage region is Halley’s
Bluff on the Osage River, about 14 miles down stream from where
the Marmiton and Marais des Cygnes unite to form the Osage River.
A photograph of a portion of this bluff is shown in figure 126. There
is evidence showing occupancy of this bluff by Indians long before
the coming of the white man and probably before the coming of the
Osages.

The long summit of the bluff shows many small, low heaps of stones
and other Indian signs. The sheltered spaces at the foot of the over-
hanging cliffs were out of reach of the highest waters and were
sheltered in large degree from the winds and rains. Here, in these
dry, sheltered spaces, these ancient people lived and worked. They
dug about 20 cache pits at present about 5 feet in depth, in the mod-
erately soft red sandstone.

FIELD-WORK ON THE KIOWA, PUEBLO, AND CALIFORNIA
INDIANS

At the end of July Mr. J. P. Harrington, ethnologist, proceeded to
California to continue his studies of the Indians of the Chumashan
area of that state. Place-names, material culture, and sociology, all
these branches being closely related to language, were especially in-
vestigated and all obtainable data recorded. By rare good fortune
several dozen old ceremonial songs were obtained on the phonograph,
with full notes and translation where possible, these songs having
not been in use since the middle of the past century. The songs were
126 SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VOL. 72

accompanied by the beating of the split-stick, and the rendition, while
not what might be desired, will doubtless be adequate for transcription.
They belong to several distinct cycles. Interesting comparisons were
drawn between the California Indian culture and that of the south-
west. The sweathouse is certainly the same as the kiva. The Cali-

Fic. 128—Aged Mission Indian informant. (Photograph
by Harrington. )

fornia phratries correspond to the dual division of the Pueblos. The
dancers who represent demons are the Pueblo katcinas. These re-
semblances also extend to many minor features.

Nor was the linguistic side of the work neglected, ethnology and
linguistics, and in fact archeology, of necessity going hand in hand
in this difficult field. This linguistic work 1s of the greatest im-
portance since it furnishes material for comparison with all the
related languages.
NO. I5 SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, I921 127

Mr. Harrington’s field studies reveal the fact that the language
of the Kiowa, who are now settled in Oklahoma but formerly had
eastern Montana as their habitat, is closely and genetically related to
that of the Taos and other Tanoan tribes of New Mexico, which have
typical Pueblo culture. Thus, the interesting fact is established that
the Taos speak a dialect of Kiowa just as the Hopi, farther west, speak
a divergent Shoshonean. These studies also make it clear that Keres
and Zuni are related to each other genetically, and furthermore to
Tano-Kiowan and Shoshonean, the languages all having a common
origin.

ARCHEOLOGICAL FIELD-WORK ON THE SUSQUEHANNA
RIVER, PENNSYLVANIA

In July, 1921, Mr. John L. Baer, Acting Curator of American
Archeology of the United States National Museum, examined for

Fic. 129.—Petroglyphs, Bald Friars, Fic. 130.—Petroglyphs on Miles Is-
Md. land, Susquehanna River, Pa., near
Mason-Dixon Line.

the Bureau of American Ethnology a number of instructive picto-
graphs at Bald Friars and Miles Island in the Susquehanna River.

These occur about one-fourth the distance between Bald Friars
Station and Conowingo Station, on the Columbia and Port Deposit
Railroad.

All the rocks upon which petroglyphs are found seem to have been
polished before the petroglyphs were cut in them. The top surfaces
of most of the rocks bearing petroglyphs were marked with cups and
circular grooves, some of which were concentric. Some of the rocks
were fractured destroying the continuity of pictures that originally
existed. Upon one large rock broken from its original position pos-
sibly by ice are carved two slender fishes headed up-stream. The rock
upon which they were found suggests a good stand for shad fishing
with a net.
128 SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VOL. 72

On a group of low rocks to the northwest of Miles Island is a
peculiar arrangement of figures. On one side of a tectiform rock
are two concentric circles with radiating spokes, a cup, and two semi-
circular concentric grooves, while on the ridge and extending down on
the opposite side of the roof-like rock is a figure that might represent
an animal.

During the same trip, Mr. Baer spent several days on Mount
Johnson Island, Susquehanna River, and on the near-by flats below

Fic. 131.—Petroglyphs on Miles Is- Fic. 132.—Petroglyphs, Bald Friars,
land, Susquehanna River, Pa., near Md.
Mason-Dixon Line.

Peach Bottom, Lancaster Co., Pa., seeking further evidences of the
bannerstone workshop in which he has been interested for a number
of years. He brought back with him a number of broken and unfin-
ished slate bannerstones, flint pecking stones, polishing stones and
other utensils showing evidences of a considerable sized workshop on
the island. A synoptic series from this workshop showing the differ-
ent stages in the manufacture of the bannerstone has been placed on
exhibit in the Pennsylvania case in the American Archeological col-
lection of the National Museum.
VOLUME 74, NUMBER 5

EXPLORATIONS AND FIELD-WORK OF THE
SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION
eee

(PUBLICATION 2711)

CITY OF WASHINGTON
PUBLISHED BY THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS
1923
SoOMIEHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS
VOLUME 74, NUMBER 5

EXPLORATIONS AND FIELD-WORK OF THE
SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION
IN 1922

(PUBLICATION 2711)

CITY OF WASHINGTON
PUBLISHED BY THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION
1923
The Lord Waltimore (Press

BALTIMORE, MD., 0. S.A.
CONTENTS

PAGE

MiG OCC HOLM er aer ye art Mela sais tckcity oe dene cies auad Mee ov wu bheen ee. I
Geological Explorations in the Canadian Rockies (Dr. Charles D. Wal-

SOLE) s Wize este, Beier a age sees tee ee te i rr I

Paleontological Field-Work in the United States (Dr. R. S. Bassler).... 24
Astrophysical Field-Work in California, Arizona, and Chile (Dr. C. G.

JEN | SIOXOLEN) RSS o be ORR eet Cera Be RA one A eno an ae 27
Expedition to Examine the North Pacific Fur Seal Islands (Dr. Leon-

naeenral SUS REE |) Merc ets Gaga eee OO Ona as oO O aR Ee en AR oeMe ere 30
Explorations in Australia and China (Mr. Charles M. Hoy)............. 41

Biological Explorations in Southeastern China (Mr. A. de C. Sowerby). 42

Heredity Experiments in the Vortugas: (Dr: Paull Bartsch)). .2.,/5..--.... 45
Collecting Mripito Jamarea (Mir. John By Elendersom) 022-2. asesees oe eee 54
The Mulford Biological Exploration (Dr. W. M. Mann)................. 54

Botanical Exploration of the Dominican Republic (Dr. W. L. Abbott).. 62

Botanical Exploration in Central America (Mr. Paul C. Standley)...... 63
Botanical Exploration in Colombia (Mr. Ellsworth P. Killip)............ 70
Wasit tos Buropean Hlerbania (Mis, Aones @hase))os.ca... 10s. s0-5205 06 80
Recent Discoveries of Ancient Man in Europe (Dr. Ales Hrdlicka)..... 82
Meeting of International Congress of Americanists in Brazil (Drs. Hough
cima. Seal eCall iv) S210) ees aeey Seen pierre een Megce, Gnesi a Nee rr one ip te eee eae Re Sa cr 85
Exploration of the Paleolithic Regions of France and Spain (Mr. M. W.
SHEGHITTER) AS tos. ale oc eer ron ioe pecan fro, Of Screener tice iter anaes ee acy 87
Archeological Field-Work on the Mesa Verde National Park, Colorado
@rsrawaltentbewkes) in s.aiceraos meteor oe teion os aiosesinn trea ety se cuales erie 80
Observations Among the Ancient Indian Monuments of Southeastern
Nlacicaml neni ey. VWiatermmainy) a0 sek ate as erckaus artes s Sroisca el getare Sree 115
Archeological Investigations at Pueblo Bonito (Mr. Neil M. Judd)........ 134

Investigation of Prehistoric Quarries and Workshops in Pennsylvania
GMinasoimale Baer) |. sem noth stienie vers 2 oo Sa wed amine ores a aacdouls 143

Investigations Among the Algonquian Indians (Dr. Truman Michelson).. 146

Field-Work Among the Yuma, Cocopa and Yaqui Indians (Miss Frances
IDYSSTISI TASH CEI te AI ele, Bis eck tcl oo omcre uta Oa. a cake testo tol Pi NRE ree 147
Mt. Lychni Prifid Glacier Mount St. Bride (1 : 4.7m.)

yelone Mt Lake Dougla Fucervus Ridge

a sere TAOTNEY

ric. 1.—Looking north down Dc

th Devonian limestones with Ordovician and Ozarkian limestone in the eliffis below

Creek across Red Deer River canyon to t igh ridges of Cyclone Mountain and Mount Drummond. Mount St. Bride is capp

View taken from east side of Douglas Canyon, 13.5 miles (21.6 km.) north-northeast of Lake Louise Station on the Canadian Pacific Railway, Alberta, Canada, (C, D. Waleott, 10
VOL. 74

OUS COLLECTIONS

LLANE

)

MISC

SMITHSONIAN

‘ZZO1 ‘WOINEM “CG ‘D) ‘“epeuey ‘eysaqiy ‘Aemprey oyeg
WeTpeUe) SY} UO UOHEIS ssinoy sxe] JO svayjiou (wy gor) sapius S01 ynoge JoATY 199q pey JO eps yINoG :CyynI07
‘WYSII oy} uO (Ul 96g‘ “Jooz SSQ'6) UIeJUNOTW [Isso.y YUM (UI OFL'‘Z ‘Jaayz OOI‘) uleJUNOTY IdIsAQ SasoYy JO WYsII OT “sa1NeIS
[[eurs pue SPjoy Mous sy YUM (Cu LHIE'S Joaf SZQ°01) aplig ‘3S JUNO 3 Jo yoeq snl pue ‘(‘w gro‘ 44aaq S1g‘or) se[snoq juno
FO JUUINS PED MOUS 94} Io] HY} UO “BATY 199 poy FO peoy ye dures saoqe MIA YOo]19AQ WoOIJ YINOSs Suryoo[—z “o1J

WN [ISSO .] VN 193849 sejsnoq juno,
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1922

(‘2z61 ‘OTTe@MA “CO ‘S4IN pue ‘sp) = “epeued ‘ez0q/V
‘KEMIIEY Oleg ULIpeuLD 9Y} UO UOT}¥ISg asINOT 9yxeT JO Jseoyj}IOU-Y}IOU (Wy giz) soy Sr Gsamyjsiou pue ysaMm SUIyOo]
‘gplig, ‘JG juno oysoddo Ajivau Aajfea uoAue. se[dnod JO apis sea UO sUT] JoqUITy 9AOGE WOT} WOyey MOTA 2 A41)DI0T
‘Z aIUSY UL UMOYS SI SUTeJUNOUT asey} JO apis YOU oY, “AoT[VA UOAUD PLoOId S}I pue oye] Se[SnOd SUIxOO]
-19A0 (‘WI zoz‘€ ‘Jooy SZg‘O1) aplig ‘JSG pue (Ul grIO’’ “Jooz CIQ‘OI) Se[SHOG Sure}UNOW JouTjUas 9Y} JO SYTI yeot4y—E “OI

sejsnogq no, epg 3S Juno;

VOL. 74

SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS

(-zz61 ‘Wooe\\ ‘q ‘D) ‘epeury ‘eysoq;ry ‘AeMpley oyloeg uRIpeue) 94} UO UOIe}S asINOT oye] Wos} dul|
Iie Url sea (‘Uy OZ) Sop S71 ynoqe uoduvd seysnog jo jaed ssddn ut UAJOpuaMs) dyLT JO Jo]JNO WOT, MTA /AZYDIOT
‘UATOPUIMS) OYVT] WOIJ STD }BIIT pue Ss919v[s pylry pue jouuog jo Mata syorg—t ‘ony

ToOe[Ly) Pylay TIIOPIL) JOUUO GT
(‘zzOl ‘YoIeM ‘GC 'D) ‘VY ensy se ouieg :AyyoI07
: (‘9 pue F ‘ssy
99S) “aUTeIOLUN JUITOUe Ue FO PWNS WOLF UDdYL} MOTA “Fat 9} UO UMOYS ST IUTeIOUL JOP[O YONU YW “SouIT} JIA AIOA
UL pa}Vasjar SLY Ol OY} YIM WOIJ UIVIOUL [V1O}e] JVaIs LV YA [[e} 9 pue sJolrjs youuog JO MoIA SweIOUe|—S “OY

SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1922

NO. 5
VOL. 74

COLLECTIONS

SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS

6

((zz61

UOIeZI]eySAID AVULUNTOS 4YSt4

103]8@M “Cd “OD ‘SIN pure “3TN)
‘s8y 99S) ‘aTBos Jeo1sd e UO

(‘Ss pue v

uo ‘9AOqe puke asse

AdID JO SatIas

‘py ain3y se ames -dyypI0T

RIPel YUM JoINR[S JoUUOg JO |][e} 9d1 IaMO7TJ—9 ‘DIY
[erPes i Joh ral Anes) NUERS oe Glaeser |

SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1922

NO.

‘EOI WOIVM ‘GD ‘SIIN pure spy) “€ aansy se sures + Az pI07T
“MOTI (ULIYIVZEC)) UOT}VUIIO} SUOTY BY} Y}IM DAOGL SoUO}JSOUN] UPIUOAIT
JO paluso} 91v SHI oY “IOVS pylsy FO sayouesq OM} YM (“Ur zgz‘t “joof SZQ‘O1) epl4g FS JNO]

gee

ee
f

; gi
vf he
a é

F

N

yO YyNos s

in

[Dime

/

a

‘Ol:

1

8 SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VOL. 74

but as far as known it had not been visited, except by trappers long
ago, until the summer of 1921 when Walter D. Wilcox and A. L.
Castle camped in it and photographed some of its more striking
features. Wilcox called it the ‘ Valley of the Hidden Lakes,’’* but
for geologic description and reference “ Douglas Canyon” 1s more
simple.

Mount Douglas (10,615 ft., 3,018 m., figs. 2 and 3) towers for
4,500 feet (1,371.60 m.) above the canyon bottom, and Lake Douglas

Fic. 8—Lake Gwendolyn, the gem of the upland valley, with Bonnet
glacier and the northwest cliffs of Bonnet Mountain.

Locality: The lake is about 12.5 miles (20 km.) east-northeast of Lake
Louise Station on the Canadian Pacific Railway, Alberta, Canada, and 7,500
feet (2,250 m.) above sea level. (Mr. and Mrs. C. D. Walcott, 1922.)

(fig. 1) fills the ancient pre-glacial channel for two miles or more.
This superb canyon valley with its forests, lakes, glaciers and moun-
tain walls and peaks (figs. 1, 3-10) should be opened up to the moun-
tain tourist who has the energy to ride along a fine Rocky Mountains
Park trail (fig. 12) from Lake Louise Station up the Pipestone and
Little Pipestone rivers to the upper section of the Red Deer River,
or from the Station by the way of Lakes Ptarmigan and Baker to the
Red Deer camp and thence to Douglas Lake and Canyon Valley.

*Bull. Geog. Soc. Philadelphia, Vol. XX, 192r.
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1922

NO.

x

=)

l

I

e

vi

A uoAue

2)

(

Q dINSy UI Uaas dyR] ay} JO ysva JdO[S IY} UO JaINeTs UATOPUIMY) JO SONSUO} 9Y} SMOYS MOIA dUY

se

I

—=—

co

g

RO}

noq jo pure

I

61 ‘09T2@M ‘Cd

dn u

‘) ‘SIX pue “apy) “8 omNs8y se ouieg :yyDI0T

Jd}Se9 IY} JO Peay dy} Je yUIOd YOo/4AIAG_ puke JoIOv]S UAJOPUIM1)— 6 “DIT

JUIOT YOol19AQ
jOL. 74

COLLECTIONS

SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS

10

C4 *8y
JIATY JIYJUR | oy} jo peot oy

‘zz61 ‘WoseM\ ‘‘D) ‘4 aansy se oweg /Ajyyps07
IS) “JIATY apeosey JO youesq & oAoqe SI aPrAIp opeose) pure ‘QSvuleIp
}@ SE ‘YJo] ay} UO ‘sseq Pvoys]e HY

JULIO YOO[AIAQO

‘QAOQE IULLIOWW YIM Joloe[S pue UATOPUIMt) 9yV][—O! “OM

sseq pro [eH
NO. 5 SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1922 II

The trail into Douglas Lake from the Red Deer River is not cut
out for three miles, but 10 pack horses were led through the forest
on a mountain slope without difficulty. This part of the trail should
be opened up by the Rocky Mountains Park service and made part
of the Pipestone-Red Deer-Ptarmigan circuit.

Fic. 11.—Limestone rock fall from mountain side on right of picture. The
horses and riders indicate the size of the blocks.

Locality: Douglas Lake canyon about 1.5 miles (2.4 km.) above Lake
Douglas and about 13 miles (20.8 km.) east-northeast of Lake Louise Station
on the Canadian Pacific Railway, Alberta, Canada. (Mr. and Mrs. C. D.
Walcott, 1922.)

Game is abundant. The party saw 144 mountain goats, many black
tail deer, and marmots on the Alpine slopes of Douglas Canyon (figs.
7 and 10), and at the head of the Red Deer-Pipestone divide, moun-
tain sheep.

The measured geologic section was from the base of the Devonian
above Lake Gwendolyn across the canyon to the deep cirque below
Halstead Pass where the great Lyell limestone forms the crest of
i, SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VOL. 74

the ridge. (See fig. 10.) The section includes the Ozarkian Mons
formation down to the Lyell formation of the Upper Cambrian.’

A short visit was made to Glacier, B. C., where Mrs. Walcott
measured the recession of Illecillewaet glacier, which she began to
record in 1887. The recession the past four years has been at the
rate of 112.5 feet (34.29 m.) per year, and all of the lower rock
slopes are now free from ice. (See figs. 13 and 14.)

Fic. 12—Rocky Mountains Park trail on north side of head of Red Deer
River, en route from Lake Louise to Douglas Lake canyon.
Locality: Same as figure 2.

On our way south from the Bow Valley no stops were made for
photography or geologic study until camp was made on the Kootenay
River about six miles (9.6 km.) below the mouth of the Vermilion
River. The Kootenay Valley is deep and broad, with the high ridges
of the Mitchell Range on the east and the Brisco Range on the west.
(Figs. 15 and 16.) In places the old river terraces extend for miles
along the river with a varying width. This greatly facilitated the

1 Explorations and Field-work of the Smithsonian Institution in 1919, p. IS.
Smithsonian Misc. Coll., Vol. 72, No. 1, 1920.
NO: 5 SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1922 I

WwW

Fic. 13—Photograph of Illecillewaet glacier taken in 1898, for com-
parison with one taken 24 years later in August, 1922. In this photograph
the bare space between the glacier and the dark bushes represents the
recession of the ice between 1887 and 1808.

Locality: Two miles (3.2 km.) south of Glacier House, British Columbia,
Canada. (George and William Vaux, 1808.)

Fic. 14.—Remnant of Illecillewaet glacier photographed in August, 1922.
Locality: Same as figure 13. (Mrs. C. D. Walcott, 1922.

2,
‘QI oinSy se owIeg 2 Cy/vI0T
‘JYSLI IY} UO St ADATY UOT[IWIIA 9} FO ,, des ,, UL
‘Q8UL1 UOTMUIIA 94} 0} ‘PROT JOJO JIOWTJOpUTA\-puURr_ IY} WosF JOATY ABud}OOY ssoloe preMysea SuryOoT—SI ‘OMT

i

ei i

VOL. 7/4.

COLLECTIONS

SOUS

LLANI

MISCI

SMITHSONIAN

14

SS)

SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1922

NO.

(‘zz61 ‘WooeAy “G ‘D) ‘“epeuen ‘eIquinjoy yYsi}4ig ‘Sulsso1d Avud}OONM MOTIq (“WY Q'ZI) So[IW g jnoqe ‘peor 1O}OW
IIIUIOPUT AA -PUe_ oy} WoIT ‘ISuLY [JOY PALMO} JOATY APUD}OOY SsOsDe YyNOS pue jsvI SUIYOO] MOIA JeIOURq—I “OIL]

16 SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VOL.. 74

building of the motor road, as long, level and straight sections were
readily surveyed and fine gravel was at hand for surfacing the
read bed.

I'tc. 17.—Illustrating a thrust fault. The bedded limestones have been
dragged and bent upward on the west (left) side of fault, the plane of which
slopes northeast at about 45°. The thin layers of limestone above the thick
strong layer which slid over the limestones beneath are broken and crowded
against the massive bed on the upper side of the fault.

Locality: North side of the Banff-Windermere motor road about one-
half mile (.8 km.) below Radium Hot Springs, Sinclair Canyon, British
Columbia, Canada. (Mr. and Mrs. C. D. Walcott, 1922.)

Note face in upper left corner.

A view in the forest section of the Kootenay Valley is shown by
figure 20, and a more difficult section for road building by figures
INOS SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1922 We

15 and 16. The motor road is a fine public work and opens up for
pleasure and business direct connection through the main ranges of
the Rockies between the Bow and Columbia River valleys.

The limestones and shales of both ranges are upturned and sheared
and faulted so as to make it very difficult, without detailed areal maps
and unlimited time, to work out the structure and the complete
stratigraphic succession of the various formations. (See fig. 17.)

Fic. 18.—West slope of Stanford range south of Sinclair Pass, with white
quartzite band at base of Silurian limestones. About six miles (9.6 km.)
above Radium Hot Springs, British Columbia, Canada. (Mr. and Mrs.
C. D. Walcott, 1922.)

The Silurian limestones, with their fossil coral beds above the white
quartzite of the Richmond transgression (see fig. 18) were found in
the upper portion of Sinclair Canyon, and not far away black shales
full of Silurian graptolites (fig. 19). Lower down the canyon thin
bedded gray limestones yielded fossils of the Mons* formation not
unlike those so abundant at the head of Clearwater Canyon, 73 miles
(117.4 km.) to the north, and Glacier Lake, 94.6 miles (152.21 km.)

1 Smithsonian Misc. Coll., Vol. 72, No. I, p. 15, 1920.
18 SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VOL. 74

north. It is evident that in the ancient and narrow Cordilleran Sea
that extended from the Arctic Ocean 2,000 miles (3,218 km.) or more
south between the coast ranges of the time and the uplands of the
central portion of the North American continent, there was a simi-
larity of Lower Paleozoic marine life along the shores and in its
shallow waters. [Evidences of this and of strong currents and per-
sistent wave action occur all the way from central Nevada to Mount

Fic. 19.—Graptolites that flourished on the muddy bed of the sea in
Silurian time. The coiled form Monograptus convolutus Hisinger is found
both in Europe and America. The straight form is very abundant in some
of the partings of the shale.

Locality: Sinclair Canyon about 3.25 miles (5.2 km.) above Radium Hot
Springs, in cliff on south side of Banff-Windermere motor road, British
Columbia, Canada.

Robson in British Columbia. The record of the marine life and
deposits of mud and sand is most complete, and it has been great sport
running down the various clews that have been encountered from
time to time.

The lower Sinclair Canyon opens out into the Columbia River
Valley through a narrow canyon eroded in the upturned and faulted
limestones. Some conception of the character of the canyon may be
obtained from figures 21-23.
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1922 19

NO.

(‘zz6r ‘309]8@ MA “C “D ‘SAIN pue ayy) “tz
‘cz SaInSY 99S “epeuRD ‘eIqunjo) yYsg
‘QBuULY OOSIIG ‘"peOT 1OJOU IIIUIOPUTM
-yuegq uo uodurd) MepOUIG 0} doUeI}UD MOLI
-1eU YSNOIY} PreMJSOM SUIYOOT— Iz ‘OL

(‘zz61 ‘W09T2@

‘d ‘OD ‘SJ pue ‘say) =‘epeues ‘erquinjo)

yslig ‘SUISSOI) JdATQY AeUa}OOy MOTAq
(wy PPI) say 6 Jnoqy -AyynI0T

‘peor 10}OUW 9IOW

-Japul\\-yueg oY} JO Jussur} ve UO jsaI0}
dy} Ysnosry} yynos surjooy[—oz ‘ony

VOL. 74

MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS

SMITHSONIAN

‘ez61
qW07Te# MA “COD SAIN pure “aPY) = “‘Oprs YSst1 uo peoy a jo
ayyoud ‘apis jay UO JID JO GO} Ivou pes SUOl] JO sJyO1g

‘epeuey ‘eIquinjo,) ys!
-Vlig ‘oSsuRY OOSTIG ‘PROT IOJOU IIOWIOpULA\-YUe IY} UO

uoAURD MVIIUTS 0} DdUvIJUD JSOM YSHOIY} SureyUNOPY YAPY
-[9S 9} SPARMO}] JOSUNS AVAL PAVA\JSOM SUTYOO [—ETZ “OT

rn

‘Iz aInSy s9G  “AaTTVA JOATY VIqUINTOD ay} WOIy UCAURD dy} 0} dDURIQUD
IY} JLIU PLOT 10JOU! JIOWIIPULAA-Uueg oy} WOT AYS IY} JO MOA W—'ez “DIY

NO. 5 SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1922 21

Fic. 24.—A beautiful cluster of white saxifrage in a sheltered spot among
limestone boulders.

Locality: South branch of the headwaters of Clearwater River, 22 miles
(35.2 km.) north of Lake Louise Station on the Canadian Pacific Railway,
Alberta, Canada. (Mrs. C. D. Walcott, 1922.)

Fic. 25.—A group of white heather, Bryanthus, growing on limestone

soil.
Locality: Near head of Red Deer River 10.5 miles (16.8 km.) northeast

of Lake Louise Station on the Canadian Pacific Railway, Alberta, Canada.
(Mrs. C. D. ‘Walcott, 1922.)
i)
bo

SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VOL. 74

Fic. 26.—Purple gentian growing on a south slope of a limestone ridge at
about 7,000 feet (2,100 m.) elevation.
Locality: Same as figure 25. (Mrs. C. D. Walcott, 1922.

lig. 27.—A fine plant of Zigadenas growing on a slope of limestone débris.
Locality: Same as figure 25. (Mrs. C. D. Walcott, 1922.)
NO. 5 SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1922 23

Fic. 28.—Mrs. Walcott sketching a wild flower in water colors on a frosty
morning in camp. The camp fire kept the open tent warm and comfortable.

Locality: Vermilion River canyon between the Banff-Windermere motor
road and the river, British Columbia, Canada. (C. D. Walcott, 1922.)

es st ed

Fic. 29.—Getting acquainted with a young broncho. Baby Nancy and her
mistress at Hillsdale camp, Bow Valley, Alberta, Canada. (C. D. Walcott,
1922. )
24 SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VOLE 7A:

The living evidence of the heat developed by the upturning and
compression of the strata under the eastward thrust of the massive
Selkirk Mountains is that of Radium Hot Springs in Sinclair Canyon,
and Fairmont Hot Springs, 15 miles (24 km.) or more to the south.

During the summer Mrs. Walcott sketched in water colors 24
species of wild flowers, or their fruit, that were new to her collection
now on exhibition in the great hall of the Smithsonian building.
Some of her photographs of wild flowers are shown by figures 24-27,
and sketching in camp by figure 28.

The party at the end of the season camped on the eastern side of
the Columbia River Valley at Radium Hot Springs postoffice, where
the veteran prospector, John A. McCullough, has made his home for
many years. He and Mrs. McCullough were most courteous and
obliging to the party which then consisted of the Secretary and Mrs.
Walcott, Arthur Brown, Paul J. Stevens, packer, and William Baptie,
camp assistant.

Familiar scenes in connection with the life on the trail are illus-
trated by figure 20.

The Commissioner of the Canadian National Parks, Hon. J. B.
Harkin, and the members of the Parks service in the field, especially
Chief Inspector Sibbald and Chief Game Warden John R. Warren,
were most helpful, also the officials and employees of the Canadian
Pacific Railway.

PALEONTOLOGICAL FIELD-WORK IN THE UNITED STATES

Dr. R. S. Bassler, curator, division of paleontology, U. S. National
Museum, working in collaboration with the State Survey, was in the
field six weeks in June and July, in a continuation of stratigraphic
and paleontologic studies begun a year earlier in the Central Basin
of Tennessee. This work is so extensive that a number of seasons
of field-work will be necessary for its completion. In 1921 the study
and mapping of the Franklin quadrangle, an area of about 250
square miles, just south of Nashville, was well advanced but so many
new stratigraphic problems arose that the State Geologist, Mr. Wilbur
A. Nelson, suggested the field season of 1922 be devoted to the fur-
ther study of the Franklin quadrangle and to stratigraphic studies in
contiguous areas. Accordingly, the mapping of the Franklin quad-
rangle was completed and data secured for the preparation of a geo-
logical report upon the area, to be published by the State. Strati-
graphic studies were then undertaken in the adjacent contiguous
INO 5) SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1922 25

areas and some of the classic geologic sections of Central Tennessee
were visited and studied in detail, Dr. E. O. Ulrich, associate in
paleontology in the National Museum, joined in this work on account
of his life-long interest in the stratigraphy of Central Tennessee, and
with the aid of his assistant, Mr. R. D. Mesler of the U. S. Geologi-
cal Survey, numerous detailed sections and about a ton of carefully
selected fossils were secured for the National Museum.

The classic section at Nashville, Tennessee, in which the proper
delimitation of the formations has long been in dispute, was studied

