Ai he | * i 2 te c i?

Patstatelst
SPM

ey

ie, e 1 te a S

.
me wn
We “ te fe:
fee Ch we oe

“iy 5: we , bid " ca 7 : a :
Rep eo eh
Pe ee a “ae be
ie a i wy A ey % e & (a
ie ibe oe we ee Be we ’ ‘ww 8
Be Uh , te he 2 & & Bw ie &
% Be \ ‘! “A a “ey

ae re ae, ae oy - ey reels << pi: i“ i ans
" cee de a ae ee rs } ‘. th (ee ti
ie ie a we hs a 7. Swe Ay % ee le e ie

a im le im pe, ee me ‘% Re Be ne ve 3 ie, wy Ve: m i we. f
ye
ie Fi

a ae
one
+

we we
Ye fe

Ke is an) Ee My ee awe oe 204 < ® ve wh i Re
me Re te A We Te, ip. te le) ete "e Ye Tes Me

ie we ey ae aye Te ie a na ‘ Mae sm i i. We

m @@ TR te, We, “a a {, . » ee

ae ta Uke oy a) dah ee OB ay iw “ e ee ny we
es

ole @ im le iy wh ee RB *. te Te we

oe te i eee fe he ee fe ee
CO

e Qe We Te Yo de. le Te Te & we tw  & |e a a “e Je De fy

om Be Bes Ber Be 226 Be Bs Re Yes Ts Te He We s

4 s
” . ml =~ a ‘
Linh faye v
Rett me
.

7 ‘ac! i y
Bik fs: t
4 eo
(ok a Be is
on ¥

Mm BS
A eibr iba be kag

Va: dae
iebie
Miiie

eds Daly i
reek yaad be
1

boar barn WA
PAL Iaoe debe dedapearoe iD Neihe Je
recente} aids ju. ul Voy 0338 ae eri My dodo be
4 4 Retest ; +e boa Po ie Pay. seh iio be
VSekede) ies

ee aaarbea ert
v

¥:
pba beds hi be
de} y i beads ts Mya

WAS ba basen de beebe
We be pr dell eda se bo a ry (es
\ i pepaitads ea Rs tae p sbeiteay de Te M4),
4s aie Pave debate)
af the

An Dd Delhn Made bale babe!
viberyi ho-ti ve » +
nf

teks oo
5 Dabs 3a he Bae Dabs Aye
mrpervent svar ye ety

dndpothe ® site Da De ibes io) Bad obs de De tad.

WIS 4: Pobe ds Dede he

4. o wht fond ie >

Shs): nbebe
ja ehsdelh on babedeh ya>
sede deed ade Sais bey
prfreor ere)

ebrerrsuire cy aeriper tevin test ey Soren vargwnns
feb bin gite: UY 2

hak
Bete we 4
alle iu he gba hei be ihe
Gada tadate fron Beit bile
i ageaibitaliaieiaihets Ac Pa
bob he weet POM
shebel
eka ais SY Shy
"

wt
Whe be tye nd

+ hy
weal Peis

( ve nsisarst satis
inh babi tae Watihepseneas

bt Aue a heted o 6 "

be 1s beta abe Avie Hoare iene Aeindade de bebytet yh

prbde

ene
bret
oe

‘ sank
tha te are ==
inten een n80 95 Paatl
erect at hs 4s

ins ihe
Cs the
a $3) aa » serch -*
ene
Bhatt

that kaPape reps Sribt arty

snes age {
see htad iy e

b9Fai vials
ibe he

i bedbe shy baibe

Dale te
bepekssetsher tember iets

athe
dedebrbeids the Tams iie hs depoiy bebataibe

ite He!
satel tt iheiholds Sikstnbe Neva ine Paboleds Habadaniretersts

abe haihe he a

ret Goduthaits
reht rund

vhs dabey Noe etecedeieie
hs heb paths it

1 Sarva bo \'ho Do rs ing he be bis p
sR esebebeaaritece habe

pth ed Dedede ds fe
pie Ss hts Dade de fed
rere vi ara a)

ba 4 be he)
Spee Be be pees

CON ee ae Diy
ine bobe dasa
Ly be Sribe Dab

»
nhaeeht deg }
tate aie tt ii
Hoeiaiil bale
Say Pe az ie be
Sale oat de dete be lels

ed gl ub ee
bebe sue

pon gaia st abalie aie
pda ie 9 babe tases

Teth

ms ere
ood 839 be dey hepoige
ne een

‘

Adak he

; Sods bedabyahielehwas
badd Hh cd be Sede toe hey

+ pe ele dade
Weds de dese.
a

OOP V4 edt
ep le plies
TaLakat bbs
Huse pea betainn
Tips bebe Bs 99 Bs de pe
Of haisclpe be 00-0 Ye Oe be velba he
PRDPAN ba impart be Vibe 'oiholt
abet etites it a ‘ie bad

Hisibeiieasos salen)
dete

anGeee
att evap hart

sh sie vavaiie 64 joy

ey
oni ont
| ha neeel
Ls qishistontettaagreneetes
Doane hate dell

be SARIS belle de ia vettatetes toe’
We ebadebet iat Leathe Feat aititie Gut ies
‘Mhatede bbe bh Me 4daie ls iin

a horas Ue eer te%

Meee pee te aaee

Pelee gta rei igen

ibe de ELE
eyist ae ind 434 nes

Satete
era ae ‘e

te *
he ay ia fe! No.
Shp bab 5 ein aes

6 Wists Jeibinriavals
a aaa

. Sree
Micishen

eee tl

ith ets

st
sede
—

tees

a
vat
sat KAA ,

9 De rahaisi
sats

abated}

et itanes
ielsiebainan aca s ae ct}
lejsidie a eRe

ee ee * oa bees

ati pear
On dene) ri red site
papa tice

carer (
se ae
° eae
pier »

yi
ya pe Pe nh iat
ae

=

ie

SNR

vee pe
tigers

ee ioele
tae
Siete cd Series

pended oa:
ae
bias

ais 4 dade fre
Se iloarede’

Vaya dead it
u tyes aah oe,
tt gist si ia ie

161844 on We Ht 09) Seat Ta sae rete

ye peney
~}S an ie i ”
gh AT ADL WA NW Dae Daiaade hades Pe dede op ab
padavlecibrrcsanmpeh th cetetctoks
1 Deb Ye gael ee pee ib

usenet ciniate

Naboo ee } Mi ped
iy ls OB meee rf
Vi dade Snail tbe a hs Oe bed dea ier 1
be beds ae meni y i :
HH WANS D0 de bays ee DR (oF
hate hche Ey korert pear be op he kebe bet Yoh tl Siete Biri oedst Wasbebened 1
, de ia HENRI Leh nedelebasostcuettele te bol apes inte
miele ts Inde he debe iedaters brdets
inn ra ah ba vasa Pebv My b94)
ee Pe Va a4

+h

oats

re bug
ibeda'de 5 r4a69,

Wor agbrorebe

+ Pppeitely
4nd yebehter

ipoperresetiiyy, {ve beset teste

D608 Prive ss nema lon deg!
O invade Pe

retort
Lovee +H

farirdiaad
Miabeelaat cenit
58 baits >

”
oes DES gD eat
45 beaepe

%
ceelnte

4

4 Asie ee pEP Ld dy vate»

oie: Gir 0454 Bebe th ps betheg
ibbehcnalatel rivers
sekuabapseodot te tai

1D oe PO Peoe se ihst4
OF eros hea dees dy J. ee
as. des ba Se Bais Fe
WHinhetchest beta

La pripa bi fb
One! dy date 7) 0)

te
Ranta
Me
$i
Shi) ii ed
A UM UP vinta p

ibe Debra Lal
etahen tee Trt

debi hosp yt
Pghele Oe ches

ep .0s pothe iba ds us 4: 4
ite be 9 2 Ae ee a sid Dee ba

coer

hs iedcitoe be Opabnl-bohey
0 he Haase aad
aii ar. ys be Obata bs deus M4

pe peinelte ge Me
ef bab tan ray aeeg
habe be Sats Ft
Prarysosiedese penbt abi g sete
LS Fig Let ined Majgnreelneey
Writs
heed Ht it

> Neheees
ci eibr Miis a eibebs gota te aad

M a separate betes:
yey 9) pa aet

patil roregegae niet Wiley
“at it ebaie sede yobs ie
iatclabbaekeeaot meted call ns bees hiake

ates shia
9
Che titea ieee
Sata ie hance ote
jeg e te ot ee ns
eoeye
Prete ty tony
ST Re lad deldeh
a wrireert

Hen) besavnt choi

shorting ieises
ia/anlina Soden stow inuney M4

i
ceed teen
weetit ty

Aa
ahethee

8 wea
we

ae

ret
Lael buiies ie "

1.
cia ps a
bhiehad * ates ieskarntertiison ther

$4) ‘ive
ae

Ay bO ehatoas Te ehed
SSphehes at.

ti

deaepe aie
Nae shite
aa Pitino *

b¢ Ett 4 a ke
Se bet - te ; oat .

bata pth

as
impr
; pai Hatha

cacbronatbne ren

iataarueteaateie att Ht eaves

peiaceddvegevin tty phen htt 4 pers

- Lobes

Sie Saat rertttnatt
Mong hy erste

ea
ea

by

aa eee

ee 09 te
iskeie

ogee et
Jakgtnpht Py

aa
ti Seana

hotereteresey

ae ihs coke tee

he ne ihe tone rane Aa!

tena) og Rs veita vena ree ™
rh

hte
Brains atest

”

reqere laps anyeut te
sine

a

yoni ov

oye :
nn spa cheaper tote bGl Ut Gs Saytwerane
Toh

pioes yt pagewne rate
sa se soseue
roe

Lisbhutareeatit carers

hte errr ey.

heme wae eae =
Sap Se abe ett?

seeiery
ote

_ SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

tay

_ SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION
es IN 1930

eMITH SONI, N

SEP 03 1987

(PusLicaTIon 3111)

SiGBRARIES

CITY OF WASHINGTON
PUBLISHED BY THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION
1931

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

EXPLORATIONS AND FIELD-WORK OF THE
SMITHSONTAN INSTITUTION
IN 1980

(PUBLICATION 3111)

CITY OF WASHINGTON
PUBLISHED BY THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION
1931
The Lord Battimore Press

BALTIMORE, MD., U. S. A,
legal even ©) ah

Each year the Smithsonian Institution and certain of its branches—
notably the U. S. National Museum, the Bureau of American Eth-
nology, and the Astrophysical Observatory—send into the field expe-
ditions for the purpose of obtaining information and collections needed
in the pursuance of their researches in biology, geology, anthropology,
and astrophysics. The results of these researches are published sooner
or later, usually as technical papers, in one of the series issued by the
Institution. In the meantime it is considered desirable to present in
this annual explorations pamphlet brief articles on the field expeditions
themselves. The articles, written by the field workers, tell of the
purpose of the expeditions, the methods of acquiring the desired ma-
terial, something of the results obtained, and perhaps a little of the
interest of scientific work in the field, often in places seldom visited
by man. The whole gives an idea of the wide scope of the Institution’s
scientific activities, undertaken with the sole purpose of increasing
knowledge and diffusing it.

W. Ps irue;
Editor, Smithsonian Institution.
CONTENTS

PAGE
Nlovoones (CA (Gew sSabiahiabarer nye’ Sibiilan Gog Bo aeiolee GoGo ieee cin oc ar racia niet I
ANiketsicln, Jo Wile (Collkaciines 1Rihes sh wae WWEStes ono bocuboesoounoaenoboeeece 107
Bartsch, Paul. Further Explorations for Mollusks in the West Indies..... OI
Bassler, IR, Sq Ieee INTOKOORSHIIS 5 cop caeeouese seu bul docUoe cousobobeE I
Businell Davide leanlitamNlonacaneSitesmitin VaGodniae sca cies sceeiee seis sel: 211
Collins, Henry B., Jr. Ancient Culture of St. Lawrence Island, Alaska..... 135
Densmore, Frances. Music of the Winnebago, Chippewa, and Pueblo
enh vaatin Secs hops ted sa Peto rete esac RENO 5 Eis A ager dy Sits ey 217
Friedmann, Herbert, Explorations of the Rey. David C. Graham in
Saal anienn, Clarhake ys ker peters SARE a, REN yee Rae Gl OR ee emM A el Bk Tal
Gidley, James W. Continuation of the Fossil Horse Round-Up on the
OldwOrecontrltrailkve ms a: ce ete Ue sk Cee aoe ee eee 33
Gidley, James W. Further Investigations on Evidence of Early Man in
TEL ayer bey) | 2c APS. ERA gala en eA A aes EMEC AP A gp IO ea AI
Gilmore, Charles W. Fossil Hunting in the Bridger Basin of Wyoming.... 13

Harrington, John P. Studying the Indians of New Mexico and California. . 187
Henderson, Edward P. Collecting Silver Minerals in Ontario, Canada.... 45
Hewitt, J. N. B. Field Researches Among the Six Nations of the Iroquois.. 201
HintchcockepAw Ss Aw botanical Visit to South and East Atricas...as.0. 46: on}

Hrdlicka, Ales. Anthropological Work on the Kuskokwim River, Alaska.. 123

Judd, Neil M. Arizona’s Prehistoric Canals, from the Air............... TS
Kellers, Henry C. Biological Collecting on “Tin-can Island”............ 67
Kellogg, Remington. Ancient Relatives of Living Whales................. 83

Krieger, Herbert W. Prehistoric Santo Domingan Kitchen-middens,

Gemectenicommean dal anthiwOtkse set py aciiae ac cear ee et revi eee 145
Michelson, Truman. Studies of the Cheyenne, Kickapoo, and Fox........ 207
Perrygo, Watson M., and Wetmore, Alexander. The Cruise of the

IES NOAM Wes AGEN IG eins seein iene cans Grito nen en OOo roa a aor 59
Resser, Charles E. The Search for Ancient Life Forms in the Rocks of

them ViestennaWimitedmStatescran sq riaccreiert cae siece cuaisesuehe ompee rein atc Ryser 21
Roberts, Frank H. H., Jr. A Prehistoric Village on the Zuni Reservation,

INTENT AICS SKC se teatoeh, 3 oie cia ctr nic or Re ers ercehe Gis ch oo cicero ont a
Schmitt, Waldo L. Trawling for Crustaceans at Tortugas, Florida....... 103
Stirling, M. W. Mounds of the Vanished Calusa Indians of Florida....... 167
Stirling, M. W. Archeological Reconnaissance in Texas and Nevada..... 173
Swanton, John R. Indian Language Studies in Louisiana:..::....-...-.-- 195
Wetmore, Alexander. Afield with the Birds of Northern Spain.......... 49

Wetmore, Alexander, and Perrygo, Watson M. The Cruise of the
ESAT ORDANG al HIGH, att dean SS Eo RT ERE TR DI eI On oe OG oa 50
STUDYING. TEE SUN

By GG. ABBOT,
Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, and Director of the
Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory

For many years we have operated stations on high mountains in
distant desert lands making daily observations of the intensity of the
sun’s rays, on which all life and weather depend. This tedious cam-
paign is just reaching its victory.

As shown in figure 1, short-interval changes of solar radiation,
taking four or five days in which to produce a rising or a falling
sequence of solar change averaging only 0.8 per cent, obviously cause
changes in the temperature and barometric pressure at Washington.’
Opposite causes in solar change plainly produce opposite effects in
weather. Some of the effects are simultaneous with their solar causes.
Others are delayed 10 or more days, probably drifting down in waves
from distant centers of direct solar action. These delayed effects, as
well as the direct ones, are often large, equalling or exceeding 5°
Fahrenheit in their average values.

The conclusion is surprising. Hitherto it has commonly been sup-
posed that weather is merely the fluctuation effected by local terres-
trial conditions in the orderly periodic march of climate. These new
results indicate, on the contrary, that weather is principally caused by
frequent interventions of variations of the sun, affecting terrestrial
affairs.

The delayed effects just pointed out give promise of long-range
forecasting values. It would be still more promising if regular perio-
dicities should be found in the solar variations. This is the case.
Figure 2 shows that from 1918 to 1930 the principal variations in the
solar radiation, as given by monthly mean values, are well represented
as the sum of five periodicities, and five only. They are of 68, 45, 25,
Ir, and 8 months, respectively, and are all closely related to the 114-year
sun-spot cycle and the 33-year Bruckner cycle. The search for shorter
periods is beginning, and, as curve H shows, reveals a period of 45 days
and another one-eighth thereof as having continued through the
year 1924.

The expected march of solar variation in the years 1931 and 1932
is shown in curve I.

1 And other stations as well.
Z SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION
€ DAYS ZERO 5 10 15 20
NY
ya 1 es Ee Jt |
N
py a 4
|
N TEMPS RAT URES:
Coy - =
Ms ~
JE ii
es MARCH Sceellead
=1.00 -a°b A 2 =I
/ paesfunes
0.00 SS 4
[S 1 Ke
+1.00 is ea
Ie
s laaal ia
He ae 4 aul rs
IN T
-200 4° a
/{\ MI
/ PARAS
-100 2 Z ora aN v
NS a | f
000 ok Za Z ‘ TEMPERATURES cgailihass AND zie \_| PRESSURES, = eee we Ce \
APRIIL 4 Si Ie | ieee ; \ ed
00-2) Ue ee aimee PAB = s lee
==

2 Le Bl
\/ Pay
TEMRERATURES “AIRES
d wd.
% i

I*tg. 1—Average trends of temperature and pressure at Washington
corresponding to average solar changes of 0.8 per cent. The solar changes
culminate on the day “zero,” but weather effects sometimes occur much
later. Weather effects corresponding to rising solar radiation, full lines ;
to falling radiation, dotted.
SMITHSONIAN ‘EXPLORATIONS, 1930

‘UOHIPRA AVJOS UL SaT}IOIPOLIagG—'z “OL

ove:

vee)

ere)

es6)

9s6"

JL

230 AON 130 GIS) (OV

(1 26"|
ce
=s1-— £61 v6)
r a F v6) S6!
8
won?
— $6!
T ———t + + + + + +$——+ + +--+ - — ert + 96)
“8dv nvr | “Px ‘
\ yond
“Ar ala AT ay “ar wav ee ee CS abe gh the ahr ado 7130 var adr
Ree natore (ie Daekeoe (as mace peau ere) LT iin ose, * PERSE oe mle CES Te cde. * a 238) ev S61 ove) 16) i
4 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Itc. 3—Mount Brukkaros, South West Africa. The Smithsonian solar
observing station is near the top.

Tic. 4.—Observing tunnel and instruments, Mount Brukkaros,
South West Africa.
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1930

“BILITY
SIM YINOG ‘soreyyNAg Junoyy ‘jojsid ev yyM
Jed 94} Worf Joys Yoqsursds sy .[—9 ‘IY

“BILIFY 3S9M\ YYNOS
‘soleyynig jyunoy ‘des, ysy 30jU9}}0]4
Be SUI}eI]SUOWap [YepIOG ‘sipy—'S “DIY

6) SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Our three observatories in the field at Montezuma, Chile, Table
Mountain, California, and Mount Brukkaros, South West Africa, have
carried on as usual. The following extracts from the diary of
Mrs. Sordahl, wife of the director at Mount Brukkaros, show some of
the unusual incidents of life in a Hottentot reservation.

January 2, 1930. The blue cats of Mount Brukkaros celebrated the New Year
by raiding our chicken house at two o’clock this morning. Adam woke us up,
and Louis jumped out, grabbed his pistol and rifle and flash light and went
up to the chicken house. The wild cat was still inside. Louis shot it with his
.32 Luger. Adam skinned the cat and I prepared it as a flat skin. We had a
chicken dinner.

January 24, 1930. During last night’s storm, the lightning had struck the
tunnel. The cotton wrapping on the wires was burned, also the wires, box,
shunt, resistance box and Wheatstone bridge; both strips in the bolometer were
broken, lights burned out, second Wheatstone damaged, and theodolite blackened.

Alfred went to town, sent cablegram to Dr. Abbot. .... 4 January 25, 1930.
The men worked all day repairing instruments. ..... January 26, 1930. The

men worked all day at the tunnel. I stood by and tried to be of help, but per-
haps was more of a hindrance. They ran a plate test at 5:30 p. m. Had a ter-
“stopped up” so the men had to fix
that too, and the whirlwind took the sacks off the coleman lamps. Trouble
never comes singly.

May 18, 1930. Went back to Berseba and waited to see the wedding. The
Hottentots perform their own pagan ceremonies of marriage first, and the next
day they have the missionary marry them according to Christian rites. The
bride was hidden away from all the ceremony and celebration. This is done to
test her faithfulness as a lover. The groom walked about with a look of loneli-
ness and despair as he could not take part in the gayeties either. He wore a
bright orange pair of trousers, black pointed shoes, and a felt hat, all of which
made a peculiar combination of Hottentot and European styles. The groom’s
relatives form a procession and go to the bride’s parents’ home with the inheri-
tance. The bride’s relatives do likewise to the groom’s home. The groom’s

rific whirlwind today. The stove became

train consisted of seven yoke of oxen drawing a wagon load of food. The wagon
was covered with green foliage. Behind the wagon, the men drove teams of
goats. A long line of women walked on either side, carrying green branches
forming an arch over the oxen and goats to conceal the gifts that the bride was
to receive. The two parties met half way between the homes, crossed paths
and proceeded to the opposite home. After this ceremony the celebration
begins. They build a large fire to barbecue the meat and cook the mealy meal.
Mr. Mutz told us that in good years they kill as many as twenty head of oxen
for a wedding, but during poor years such as this one the number seldom exceeds
seven. They eat, drink, dance and sing all night. The next noon the missionary
marries them again.
PURSUING MICROFOSSIES

Brak sy BAS SIEHIR:
Head Curator of Geology, U. S. National Museum

During the last quarter of a century the Smithsonian Institution has
fostered the study of three groups of micro-organisms, the Bryozoa,
Ostracoda, and Foraminifera, originally as a contribution to pure
science, and later, when their value in determining oil and other zones
in the earth’s crust became evident, as a distinct aid to economic
progress. In this work the Institution has had the valuable assistance
of two collaborators, Dr. Joseph A. Cushman of Sharon, Massachu-
setts, the well-known authority on Foraminifera, and Dr. Ferdinand
Canu of Versailles, France, one of the foremost students of post-
Paleozoic and Recent Bryozoa. Since 1909, it has been my privilege to
be associated with Doctor Canu, not only in research on the Bryozoa,
but also in building up the Museum's study series of this class.

Our first extensive work, based on the Tertiary rocks of North
America, was prepared under the joint auspices of the Smithsonian
Institution and the United States Geological Survey. Its purpose was
to work out a classification for the group, and also to learn the strati-
eraphic occurrence of the numerous American species to further their
utilization in geologic work. Our later studies have included both the
Mesozoic and Recent faunas, while there was recently completed a
monographic study of the Philippine fauna in which many of the post-
Paleozoic genera are described and illustrated.

Our collaboration has been carried on almost entirely through corre-
spondence, and it was not until the past summer that Doctor Canu
found an opportunity to make his first visit to the United States.
Meeting in New York upon his arrival early in June, we immediately
started on a field trip through the New England States, during which
we combined the collecting of Recent bryozoans along the coast with
explorations for suitable exhibition material from the igneous rocks
of Massachusetts and Maine. We were fortunate during part of our
trip in being the guests of our friends Dr. and Mrs. J. A. Cushman.
They took us by automobile to the various areas we wished to study,
and most kindly entertained us at their home in Sharon, also the site of
the Cushman Foraminiferal Laboratory. This laboratory is of such
interest to scientific students that I am including an account of its work
and aims, furnished me by Doctor Cushman :
8 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Fic. 7—The Cushman Foraminiferal Laboratory.

(Photograph by Cushman. )

Stein ee ee

Fic. 8—Rocky cove along the Massachusetts coast.
(Photograph by Bassler.)
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1930 9

The Laboratory was built in 1923 to serve as a private research laboratory
connected with problems on the Foraminifera. Later one room was opened for
graduate students of Harvard University and Massachusetts Institute of Tech-
nology who received instruction here. There is also room for visiting workers
on the Foraminifera. The building consists of laboratory rooms and rooms for
clerical work, library, etc., on the main floor, together with a steel and con-
crete addition somewhat separated from the main building but connected with
it, in which are housed the collections, special library, card catalogue, etc. The
basement is given up to rooms for preparation of material, photographic work,
and a room for carpentry work such as building cases, etc. There is gathered
together here a great deal of material from classic localities representing vari-
ous parts of the world, which has been acquired through exchange, collecting,
or purchase. There is a library of between 2,000 to 2,500 separates, including
practically all the important works on the Foraminifera. There is also a unique
card catalogue of figures and references to published records on the Foramin-
ifera. These, which number at the present time about 75,000 cards, have a copy
of the original figures pasted on the card with the references given, the original
place of publication, formation and locality, with often times the complete
description and notes. These are arranged by genera, by species under each
genus, and the references under each species chronologically. In addition there
is a separation of Recent, Tertiary, Cretaceous, Jurassic, and Paleozoic, indi-
cated by colored tab cards. This makes it possible to very quickly find the
original figure of any species, or the records for a given formation. There
are also collections containing many thousand slides of identified species, many
of which are from the original type localities, together with a very consider-
able number of actual holotypes and figured specimens. These collections are
being augmented rapidly, and are eventually to go to the U. S. National
Museum where it is hoped active work will be continued on the group for a
long time as is now being done here.

After several days at the Laboratory spent in reviewing past work
and planning for the future, and studying Doctor Cushman’s methods,
we motored north along the Atlantic Coast from Cape Cod to Portland,
Maine. On this trip my attention was given over to the location of
outcrops of igneous rocks from which large specimens showing geo-
logical phenomena could be quarried for exhibition at the Museum.
Doctor Canu’s interest, on the other hand, was concerned with the
collecting of Recent Bryozoa, which he found encrusting pebbles of
the igneous rocks or attached to the seaweed. Our present studies were
therefore far apart in time, his relating to the present while mine
dated back millions of years—almost to the beginning of earth history.
Figure 8 illustrates how a small area can serve such widely divergent
interests. Doctors Canu and Cushman are seen collecting Recent bryo-
zoans in the rocky cove (near Scituate, Mass.), while nearby can be
observed a dike of dark igneous rock cutting through the light colored
granite.
10 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Fic. 9.—Outcrop of Paleozoic glacial tillite at Squantum Head, Boston Bay.
(Photograph by W. S. Cole.)

Fic. 10.—Quarry at Vincentown, New Jersey, showing the well developed
unconformity (indicated by ink line) between Vincentown bryozoan marl,
below, and Tertiary sands, above. (Photograph by Bassler.)
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, I930 Te

Proceeding northward along the coast, the Boston Basin, one of the
classic geologic areas of America, was next in order. Here Doctor
Cushman pointed out the complicated structure of the Paleozoic rocks,
particularly the Roxbury conglomerate and the associated beds of
tillite. The origin of these two formations was much in doubt until,
in 1910, a resemblance of the tillite to present day glacial bowlder clay
was recognized by Dr. R. W. Sayles. This tillite, now known to be of
Upper Paleozoic age, is especially well exposed at Squantum Head
(fig. 9), the peninsula jutting out into the southern part of Boston
Bay. The outcrops here are of such interest that the area has been
presented to the city as a public park. Consequently no exhibition
specimens could be collected, but Doctor Sayles, who is much interested
in having a display of the conglomerate and associated bowlder clays
in the National Museum, holds out a hope that permission may be
granted for obtaining such an exhibit in the near future.

Since two of the main building stones of our Natural History
building came from adjacent areas—the granite used in the construc-
tion of the basement from Milford, Massachusetts, and the white mica
granite used in the first and second stories from Bethel, Vermont, |
was naturally interested in spending some time in a study of their
characteristics and occurrence.

Continuing north, other regions along the coast were explored, the
last being the Leda clay district of Maine where the possibility of
securing a considerable section of this interesting laminated clay was
investigated.

On the return trip we took the route through the White Mountain
district and the peneplain area of lower New England, securing photo-
graphs illustrative of the physiographic development of these regions.

Leaving New England, where we had enjoyed such pleasant associa-
tions and gained important geological information, Doctor Canu and |
proceeded to Washington. After spending several weeks together at
the Museum in preliminary work on our next bryozoan monograph,
several short trips were made to Atlantic Coastal Plain areas to study
at first hand the geological relationships of faunas under consideration.
Our particular interest lay in the bryozoan fauna of the so-called
Vincentown, New Jersey, marl, whose close faunal relation to the
Upper Mesozoic of Europe is most striking. Until recently this marl
has been regarded as marking the top of the Mesozoic era, but Ameri-
can students who have investigated the other classes of fossils of this
fauna and associated strata, now question the Cretaceous age of the
deposit, believing it to be Middle Eocene, a much younger formation.
As the Vincentown marl is at the boundary between two great eras of

2
12 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

geologic time, the Mesozoic and Cenozoic, and apparently shows rela-~
tionship—at least in its bryozoan fauna—to certain strata in Europe,
it is desirable that a detailed study be made, not merely to present
descriptions of the species, but to bring out principles involved in
intercontinental correlation. Our collections of Bryozoa secured from
Vincentown, New Jersey (fig. 10), and other points along the Atlantic
Coastal Plain, assure us of abundant material from which to obtain
tangible results. The work had progressed so far by July, the time
of Doctor Canu’s return to France, that completion of the monograph

is practically assured.
POSSIE HUNTING IN THE BRIDGER BASIN
OF WYOMING

By CHARLES W. GILMORE,
Curator, Division of Vertebrate Paleontology, U. S. National Museum

In the southwestern part of Wyoming an extensive area of badland
country known as the Bridger Basin has long been a fertile collecting
field for those in quest of the remains of fossil vertebrates. This basin,
the formation, and the early military post called Fort Bridger were all
named in honor of Jim Bridger, that intrepid frontiersman, scout, and
Indian fighter who pioneered this region.

The first collection of fossils from the Bridger formation was made
in 1870 by a Yale party under the leadership of Prof. O. C. Marsh,
and it marked the beginning of a long series of expeditions which have
disclosed the varied and abundant animal life that existed here in
Eocene times. The need of an adequate representation of this impor-
tant fauna in the National Museum collections has been long felt,
and it was to supply this need that in the spring of 1930 plans were
consummated for an expedition into the Bridger area.

In the latter part of May, I left Washington for Green River, Wyo-
ming, the base of operations, where I was joined by Messrs. George F.
Sternberg and George B. Pearce, both of Hays, Kansas; the former as
field assistant and the latter as cook for the party. From Green River
we proceeded almost immediately to Fort Bridger in the southwestern
part of the Basin where supplies were obtained, and our first camp was
established on Smith’s Fork, near the small town of Mountain View.

Prior to entering the field my tentative plan of operations was to
begin in the southwestern part of the Basin and work eastward,
searching in succession the exposures which are to be found paralleling
the courses of the several creeks that flow northward into the Basin
from the foothills of the Uinta Mountains to the south. In the main
this plan was adhered to.

Failing to find much of interest along Smith’s Fork, we soon moved
camp to the head of Little Dry Creek where better success awaited us.
Several weeks were spent here in systematically searching the denuded
breaks and hills that form the escarpment along this creek and our work
was well rewarded. In the first few days here an incident occurred
that is so unusual as to seem worth relating. One day in crossing a
small water course the car became stalled in the soft mud of the creek

13
I4 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

lic. 11.—Bridger badland exposures along Little Dry Creek, Bridger Basin,
Wyoming. Lower half of formation. (Photograph by G. F. Sternberg.)

Frc. 12.—Badland exposures south of Sage Creek Mountain, Bridger
Basin, Wyoming. Upper half of Bridger formation. (Photograph by G. F.
Sternberg.)
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, I930 15

bottom. Looking about for stones with which to block up the wheels,
we noticed a rocky layer protruding from the bank and Pearce was
instructed to get the pick and pry out some of it for ballast. A stroke
or two with the pick brought an exclamation of surprise, for on the
under side of the first slab detached was the complete skull of a croco-
dile in excellent preservation. A most happy surprise and a valued
addition to our then small accumulation of fossils.

On June Ir, camp was moved to a site on Leavitt Creek and here
we were successful in finding some of the best collecting ground yet
encountered. Four weeks of collecting here brought us past the middle
of the season and inasmuch as all of our work had been in the lower
half of the formation, it was decided to move to a locality where the
upper measures offered good collecting ground. Accordingly on
July 16 our fourth and last camp was established on Henry’s Fork,
about a mile north of Lone Tree postoffice and here the remaining
weeks of the season were profitably spent.

As a result of this work a great mass of material was accumulated
which is thought to contain much of scientific interest and importance,
in addition to some few specimens of an outstanding character. The
collection filled 24 large cases having a combined weight of 7,430
pounds.

Among the specimens of outstanding interest are an almost complete
articulated skeleton of Hyrachyus, a rhinoceros-like animal about the
size of the modern tapir ; a skeleton slightly less complete of Orohip pus,
a small primitive horse; two partial skeletons of Palacosyops and two
crocodile skeletons that are more or less complete. At least four mount-
able skeletons for the exhibition series will result from the above
mentioned materials. In addition there are many parts of skeletons,
i. ¢., skulls, jaws, articulated limbs and feet of both large and small
mammals.

Irom a scientific point of view, the small mammal material such as
tooth-filled jaws and parts of skulls in some instances associated with
parts of skeletons, may prove to be the more important part of the
collection. In all there were nearly 200 such specimens coming from
all horizons, ranging from near the base to the top of the formation,
representing beds of not less than 1,000 feet in thickness.

In this connection it is of interest that in two instances we definitely
located the source of certain elements of this micro-fauna by finding
a considerable number of specimens actually in situ. The importance
of thus locating them may be better appreciated if I explain that
perhaps 50 were thus located, whereas 150 others were collected from
16 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Fic. 13.—Skeleton of the primitive rhinoceros Hyrachyus partly uncovered
and as it lay in the ground. (Photograph by G. F. Sternberg.)

Mic. 14—Hyrachyus skeleton swathed in plaster bandages, preparatory to
removing it from the ground. (Photograph by G. F. Sternberg.)
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1930 W7,

Fria. 15.—Collecting the shell of a large land tortoise.
(Photograph by G. F. Sternberg.)
18 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

the weathered surfaces and their precise position in the geological
section could not be accurately determined.

Thirty-eight turtle specimens representing several genera and
species and varying in size from those with shells a few inches in
length to giant tortoises nearly a yard long are also included in the
collection. In two instances complete skulls and other bones of the
skeleton were found associated with the carapace and plastron. Turtle
skulls are extremely rare, and both of those obtained appear to be
perfect with the lower jaws in place. Perhaps in no other formation
of North America is there such an abundance of turtle specimens
as are found in the Bridger. They occur almost everywhere in the
formation both horizontally and vertically. In one locality we found
an outcropping layer 50 feet or more in length that was composed
almost exclusively of turtle shells. These were packed together so
closely that it was impossible to remove one specimen from the mass
without damaging a number of others. So far as could be determined
in the field all appeared to pertain to a single genus.

Although there can never be more than surmise as to the catas-
trophe that brought about this great destruction of chelonian life,
several possibilities might be mentioned. A shower of volcanic ashes,
any one of

noxious gases, or a sudden flow of superheated water
these would be capable of destroying these animals. That volcanoes
were active in Bridger times is abundantly proved by the well estab-
lished fact that many of the layers of this formation are composed
exclusively of volcanic ash.

The concentrated accumulation of so many turtles in this one spot
may possibly be explained as having been brought about by current
action. A flowing stream during a freshet may have assembled the
shells from a considerable area and floating down stream these were
caught in an eddy or were stranded on a sandbar and thus were
brought together in this one spot. The many broken shells and the
manner of their overlapping, one shell upon another, would make
such an explanation plausible.

Despite their abundance, however, well preserved turtle specimens,
while not rare, are found only occasionally. Crocodiles are also com-
mon and in the collection made there are no less than nine skulls, two
of which are associated with much of their skeletons. A considerable
variety of lizards is known from the Bridger and of these small
reptiles several specimens of a fragmentary nature were collected.

The value of the collection was greatly increased through the coop-
eration of Dr. W. H. Bradley of the United States Geological Sur-
vey, who secured the necessary field data from which he will prepare
Wy)

SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1930

‘aIOYy Nps

(*S19quta}g “5 Aq ydessojoyg )
4) PUNOF dom SMeL [eLUURLN []eUIS AUR ‘SfolSoanjMg JO UOJays paye[Noysesip e Buyoajoo—ol “oy

7
Se eR
sd na ER aS oe

ae ae

a aie

)
20 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

a scale map on which all of the more important finds will be accu-
rately located. This mapping, combined with the several geological
sections measured by him, insures the accurate placement both geo-
logically and geographically of the specimens collected. This phase
of the work should be of the utmost importance in making this a basic
collection for the more exact determination of the faunal zones as
well as assisting in a more precise correlation of the horizons with
those of the other Tertiary basins of the Rocky Mountain region. So
far as I am aware never before in the work on the Bridger formation
has a paleontologist had the cooperation of a trained geologist in these
determinations, and it is felt that the final results will prove of great
importance.
THE SEARCH FOR ANCIENT LIFE FORMS IN THE
ROCKS OF THE WESTERN UNITED STATES

By CHARLES: E: RESSER;
Curator of Stratigraphic Paleontology, U. S. National Museum

The geologist, in his endeavors to obtain the minutiae that will even-
tually yield an understanding of the laws of his science, must spend
many hours of patient toil climbing steep mountains, penetrating deep
canyons, or tramping the bare expanses of deserts. From year to year
he must take advantage of favorable weather and of every other oppor-
tunity to seek details for completing the picture he is attempting
to draw.

My quest for facts to assist in depicting earth conditions that pre-
vailed when the earliest life record was in the making took me over
a considerable part of the western United States during the field sea-
son of 1930. Two general problems were chosen for attack. In view
of the increasing interest of geologists in the earliest forms of life
on the earth as well as the role played by algae as rock makers, the
purpose of the first explorations of the season was to study the
ancient sedimentary rocks exposed in the Grand Canyon of the Colo-
rado River. The search for organic remains in these old, relatively
unmetamorphosed sediments was particularly desired by Dr. David
White, Research Associate of the Carnegie Institution, in conjunction
with his studies at the Grand Canyon, and it was through his arrange-
ments with the Carnegie Institution and the National Park Service
that the trip was made possible.

The second general field of inquiry to be given consideration was
Cambrian geology, in which I am especially interested and which I had
previously studied in the Great Basin and the Rocky Mountains to
the north. As I had never seen the geology of Arizona, it was with
eagerness that I seized the opportunity to make a hurried visit to most
of the more important Cambrian exposures in that state.

In order to do the contemplated work in the Grand Canyon before
hot summer weather, I left Washington May 13. At the Grand Can-
yon, I found everything in readiness. The party consisted of Dr. A. A.
Stoyanow, of the University of Arizona, and myself as geologists, with
Ernest Appling as guide and Howard Childers as packer. Upon the
arrival of Doctor Stoyanow we immediately crossed the Canyon to
the North Rim. We planned to traverse the narrow peninsula which

2

=
22 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Fic. 17—Museum at Yavapai Point, Grand Canyon National Park. Inter-
esting geologic exhibits have recently been installed both within the build-
ing and on the porch. (Photograph by Resser.)

ame). a aaa
5. j

Fic. 18.—View from the Tonto Platform up the Bright Angel Trail. Indian
Gardens is situated under the big trees. The fault that makes this trail
possible is apparent in the offsetting of the beds near the top of the trail.
(Photograph by Resser.)
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, I930 23

separates the head of Bright Angel Creek, up which the Kaibab trail
leads to the North Rim, from the pass into Nankoweap Creek, where
our field investigations were to be conducted. However, as the winter
snow still lay deep in the woods, offering too much difficulty for laden
pack animals, our plans had to be changed. Doctor Stoyanow and J,
with food and equipment, were transported by a Park Service auto-
mobile 90 miles to South Canyon. Meanwhile our riding and unladen
pack animals were driven by a straighter route through the forest to
the rendezvous.

In order to understand this narrative more fully, both the geography
and the geologic structure of the Grand Canyon must be called to
mind. The Grand Canyon of the Colorado is developed where the
river cuts deeply into almost horizontal strata on the flanks of the
Kaibab Plateau, the higher portions of which attain an elevation of
9,500 feet above sea-level. As this mountainous mass was bowed up,
the river, which previously probably followed a rather straight south-
west course, was forced to make a wide sweep to the east, where, after
notching into the surface, it cut the canyon. As a consequence, the
Grand Canyon is now a great curved gorge.

Work in the canyon is very difficult. Besides the obstacle of its
vast depth, the harder horizontal strata everywhere form cliffs, and
since several of the geologic formations are rather thick, these vertical
faces often reach several thousand feet in height. However, a thou-

sand foot cliff is not needed to stop one’s progress—a vertical wall

only a few feet high, adjacent to steep slopes, becomes unscalable when
the footing is insecure. The uplift of the Kaibab Plateau having
occurred rather gently, few breaks in the horizontal formations re-
sulted, and therefore weathering has not torn the rocks to pieces to
form talus slopes over which trails might be made. Furthermore, in
this dry region few side streams enter the river, particularly on the
south rim where the gentle dip of the beds carries all water southward
from the margins of the uplift. Therefore trails in the Grand Canyon
exist only where advantage can be taken of slight natural breaks, and
there only by the expenditure of considerable sums of money.

South Canyon, just east of the Park boundary and south of House
Rock Valley, is a small dry valley cutting into the Kaibab Plateau and
draining into the Marble Canyon. Our camp was made in the former
home of “ Uncle” Jim Owen; now a subsidiary National Forest
ranger station

and some of the claws of the 2,200 cougars he is
said to have killed are still seen tacked to the barn. In the cool Kaibab
forest nearby, deer as well as the big cats are exceedingly plentiful.
24 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Fic. 19.—South Canyon Ranger Station. Note the cougar claws on the barn
in the rear, and the juniper forest. (Photograph by Resser.)

Fic. 20.—View across upper portion of Nankoweap Valley into Kwagunt
Valley, Grand Canyon. (Photograph by Resser.)
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1930 25

We noted many scores of hoofs and other parts of deer killed in the
great slaughter of the previous fall.

The morning following our arrival, our pack train was organized
and we made our way through the juniper forests up into the pines
of the higher levels to the peculiar gap that breaks through most of
the thickness of the massive Kaibab limestone and Coconino sand-
stone which form the unscalable cliffs just under the rim of the Can-
yon. From this point into the Nankoweap Basin, we traversed a trail
built in 1881 by Major John W. Powell, then Director of the United
States Geological Survey, and used the following winter by Dr. Charles
D. Walcott, who succeeded Major Powell and who later became
Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution. Today there stands on the
South River a finely executed monument commemorating Major
Powell’s successful navigation of the Colorado River throughout the
Grand Canyon.

It is assumed by the general public, and even by most students, that
the geological history of the major national parks is well known.
Thousands of people from all over the world who visit these parks
each year seek an explanation of the things seen—rocks, fossils, ero-
sional features, or plants and animals. Notwithstanding this wide-
spread interest, little has been accomplished toward mastering the
geologic history of the Grand Canyon since the studies that resulted
from Major Powell’s and Doctor Walcott’s explorations 50 years ago.

As the Nankoweap trail has not been repaired since it was first
constructed, except casually by a prospector or two, travel was quite
precarious and at places even dangerous, especially for the pack ani-
mals. Fortunately no accidents happened, although several of the
animals had very narrow escapes from falling over the cliffs, which
at places drop away from the trail-side 3,000 feet. Nankoweap Creek
is the most easterly in the Grand Canyon National Park and hence
lies below Point Imperial. Its valley is variously referred to as a
valley or a basin, the latter designation being unusual for a tributary
to the Colorado in the canyon country. Nankoweap valley like its
near neighbors is basinlike in its openness, which simply reflects the
local structure. With the uplift of the Kaibab plateau, some faulting—
slipping of the strata along lines of weakness—took place. These
basins lie inside the row of buttes margining the river for many miles,
beginning at the up-river edge of the Kaibab Plateau and extending
below the mouth of the Little Colorado. The Colorado River cut its
channel beyond the fault, and erosion, operating in the usual manner
along the fault, produced a high ridge in the intervening space, which
was cut into rectangular buttes by the side washes. Nankoweap Creek,
26 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

scsi Sapa ad yk soa

—

-

Fic. 21.—Pack train on the Nankoweap Trail. Note how advantage is taken
of a softer bed to locate the trail. (Photograph by Resser.)

Fic. 22—One of the large algal masses found in the shales of the
Nankoweap Valley. (Photograph by Resser.)
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1930 27

where it cuts across this block, has the usual steep canyon, but up-
stream it widens into a basin where softer rocks have been removed.
Doctor Walcott’s interpretation of this unorthodox fault is sometimes
questioned, but Doctor Stoyanow and I, after considerable discussion
of several alternatives, think Doctor Walcott is correct; in fact, we
found further corroborative evidence not mentioned in his publica-
tions.

Our chief task on this expedition was to search the rocks thoroughly
for traces of animal remains. As expected we found abundant im-
prints of delicate plant tissues and rather large masses of algal lime-
stones, but nothing that can really be regarded as animal, though the
limey and carbonaceous shales are fitted in every way to preserve a
record of the life extant in the waters by which the sediments were
deposited. Just what significance the barrenness of these sediments
has, 1s not yet apparent. We camped, without tents, in the channel of
Nankoweap Creek under a cutbank where one of the half-dozen siz-
able trees in the basin is located at the only campsite in the valley near
water. Each day the search for fossils was extended to new ground
so that almost every exposed bed was investigated in the eight days we
remained in this basin.

When we prepared to climb out of the Nankoweap basin, I did not
care to trust my notes or photographs to the mule but carried them in
my pack. Fourteen hours of strenuous work were required to climb the
vertical mile between our camp and the north rim, and to traverse the
15 miles of trail to the point on the road where the Park Service auto-
mobile could pick us up. Within the Canyon the last few days had
become quite hot, but on the north rim we found early spring, with
the snow bank just shoveled from the hotel porch and spread in the
sun for quicker melting. The crossing to the South Rim, which was
completed in a snow storm, seemed very cold, since we were outfitted
for the heat of the canyon depths.

Now that the Nankoweap trip was completed, Doctor Stoyanow
kindly arranged for use of the State Geological Survey automobile
to afford us means for a brief examination of other Arizona Cambrian
outcrops. This interesting journey began with the study of the Music
Mountain section west of Peach Springs. A day here showed us how
this section, which offhand would be assumed to coincide exactly with
its apparent continuation northward in the Grand Canyon, differs in
lithologic detail and relative thickness of beds. From Peach Springs
our course naturally led southeastward diagonally across the State, for
the older strata outcrop only along the northeastern edge of the old
basement rock mass forming the southwestern portion of the State.

3
28 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Da tants Soe 2 me: te pe erek

Frc. 23.—Another view of the large algal masses found in the shales of the
Nankoweap Valley. The pictures represent masses washed into the gullies;
it is not possible to photograph entire colonies in position. (Photograph by
Resser. )

Geological Survey, standing by a cholla or jumping cactus, so called because
the smaller branches cling so easily and persistently to shoes and clothing.
In fact the heat or moisture of one’s hand held close causes the branches to
turn toward it. (Photograph by Resser.)
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1930 29

The rocks in this old land mass are quite similar to the gneisses in the
inner gorge of the Grand Canyon, and must have furnished the
material now composing much of the Cambrian and subsequent strata
offshore to the north.

The Cambrian series exposed in Music Mountain outcrops south-
eastward for a short distance, extending perhaps to the vicinity of
Seligman. In the middle portion of the above-mentioned diagonal
boundary of the sedimentary plateaus, no Cambrian is present, and a
much younger series of beds rests directly on the ancient weathered
rock surface. Southeastward from Globe, however, Cambrian sedi-
ments reappear, but contain no beds correlative with the Grand Canyon
sequence. Doctor Stoyanow had worked out these general strati-
graphic facts by years of patient work and it was a great privilege and
pleasure to have him point out the evidence on which he based his
conclusions.

In a trip across Arizona, it is interesting, especially to one who has
not previously seen the southwest, to note how very sensitive the flora
is to elevation. The various cacti seem to have exact physiologic re-
quirements, and therefore even a low hill will often rise above the
level required by a conspicuous cactus. Another exceedingly interest-
ing experience was a visit to Natural Bridge, which is situated not far
from the villages of Pine and Payson. Here one finds both unusual
geologic features and interesting human activities. A deep, V-shaped
canyon was cut by a small stream flowing apparently along a fault
zone, as the rock series in the two walls of the canyon are not the
same. Several large springs issue from the east side of the canyon
several hundred feet above its bottom. Algae living in the abundant
waters from these springs have precipitated enormous quantities of
lime, until a level fill several hundred feet deep and 25 acres in extent
was formed across the canyon. Subsequently, the creek dissolved a
channel through this fill, thereby forming a large natural bridge. More
than 50 years ago a Scotch family occupied this level tract which is
naturally very fertile but almost completely shut off from the world.
Mrs. Goodfellow, the wife of the original settler, is still living, and
it is very interesting to hear her accounts of the early days. Fruit
trees of many sorts were planted when the Goodfellows first arrived.
An apricot tree planted 52 years ago beside one of the irrigation ditches
apparently found its situation most favorable. Its trunk is now more
than 3 feet in diameter, with a spread of branches exceeding 100 feet,
and this summer the tree bore approximately 100 bushels of fruit.
After an extended survey the Los Angeles papers are reported to have
admitted that this is the largest apricot tree in the world!
30 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

About the middle of June I returned to the Grand Canyon, where
the Park Service again kindly put at my disposal equipment and ani-
mals. I now had the pleasure of studying the well exposed rocks along
the Kaibab and Bright Angel Trails. This work was done in conjunc-
tion with Edwin McKee, the efficient Park Naturalist, who is carrying
forward investigations that will contribute much to our deficient
knowledge of Grand Canyon geology.

My journey to Salt Lake City was made via San Francisco, where
I examined certain type specimens in the University of California
collections.

At Salt Lake City, I was joined by Dr. Riuji Endo of Mukden,
Manchuria, who was to accompany me during the remainder of the
season. After organizing for camping, we went to Delta, Utah, pre-
paratory to a trip into the Utah desert. Here we were joined by
Mr. Frank Beckwith, editor of the local paper, who is greatly inter-
ested in the geology of his country. At this point the unusual weather
of the season began to impress itself upon us. During May and June
rains fell when none were due, but the departure from normal was
not so great as to attract more than passing notice. The past several
years had been dry throughout all the west and consequently rain was
greatly desired. At Delta much rejoicing was apparent when heavy
rain began to fall particularly on the watersheds that fed the irriga-
tion canals. Cloudy, threatening weather attended our departure into
the desert, making the temperatures very comfortable where we ex-
pected to experience the usual burning heat.

In the House Range Mr. Beckwith took us to Antelope Springs, a
small permanent flow of water near the fossiliferous outcrops studied
many years ago by Doctor Walcott. After reviewing these sections
we crossed the range by Marjum Pass and then followed the usual
rough desert track that by courtesy is called a road. Travel was
exceedingly rough as heavy showers had either washed ridges of dirt
and stones across the road or cut parallel grooves.

Saturday evening we reached Ibex in the Confusion Range. Mr.
Beckwith introduced us to Jack Watson who has lived there for many
years, mostly alone. No springs or streams occur here, as the nearby
ranges do not attain the height of 10,000 feet necessary to cause
sufficient precipitation to insure springs. Consequently Mr. Watson
must depend solely on rain water captured in tanks formed by dams
across gullies. When we arrived we found that he had no water left
in his tanks, since the regular spring showers had not materialized, nor
had the rains that began ten days previously in the higher mountains
to the east yet spread this far into the desert. He was particularly
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1930 ou

Fic. 25-—View down stream across Natural Bridge, Arizona. The flat
cultivated land is merely a fill of algal limestones under which a huge natural
bridge was subsequently dissolved by the creek. The flower stem of a century
plant stands in the immediate foreground. (Photograph by Resser.)

es Bes

Fic. 26.—One of the excellent new mud volcanoes that developed last
spring near the Dragon’s Mouth, Yellowstone National Park. (Photograph
by Resser.)
32 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

annoyed a few days earlier by having a heavy shower pass within a
few miles of the bare rock expanse that catches most of his water.
Consequently he had to get up each morning at 2:30 and haul water
in barrels on a truck from Wah-Wah Spring, 31 miles away for 33
head of cattle! Information he was able to give us and the fact that
our engine was functioning perfectly caused us to risk a reduction of
our car’s water supply and we gave one of the cows 9 gallons.

Upon returning from our investigations in the desert ranges, we
decided to visit the nearby Zion National Park. Quite unexpectedly
we found that, as in the Algonkian rocks of the Grand Canyon, the
much younger sediments in Zion Canyon also lack fossils except algal
limestones.

The final field for investigations before beginning our homeward
journey lay in the vicinity of the Yellowstone Park plateaus. Conse-
quently we went north from Zion by way of Bryce Canyon and the
Sevier Valley through the Salt Lake region, then by way of Star Val-
ley to the Tetons.

From about the 24th of July onward the rains that had been increas-
ing in frequency all summer began to interfere with our travel and
work. In the Teton Range, where last season not a drop of rain fell
all summer, it was almost continuous. Our tents were wet for weeks
at a time. Finally rain became so frequent and so violent that few
roads remained open. For this reason we abandoned our attempts
to reach several localities and went northward away from the high
regions. During our investigations in the Tetons and the Yellowstone
we were accompanied by Dr. Curt Teichert and Mrs. Teichert of
Freiburg, Germany.

Our final studies in the Rocky Mountains were in the Beartooth
Range near Red Lodge, Montana, where Princeton University has
begun geologic studies. Scarcely another region in North America
exhibits such varied geology, and if researches are continued for a
sufficient length of time, important results may be expected. This
appears to be the focal point where the Rocky Mountains change their
general type of structure, and the extensive Yellowstone Plateau with
its lava flows ends, joining both the central and northern types of
ranges, and where the results of glacial, erosional, and other geologic
processes are clearly exhibited.
CONTINUATION OF CHE POSSIL HORSE ROUND=UP
ON RAE sOED OREGON “DRAIE

By JAMES W. GIDLEY,
Assistant Curator of Mammalhan Fossils, U. S. National Museum

The results of the Smithsonian expedition to the Snake River Val-
ley, Idaho, in 1929, were so encouraging that it was decided to con-
tinue operations for another season or two. Accordingly, early in
May, 1930, preparations were made to resume work at the site of our
former collecting ground.

For five days, rain, snow, and general bad weather held our party
in the little town of Hagerman, Idaho. But on May 9, high winds and
a brilliant sun gave promise of drying up the county roads sufficiently
to make possible a move into camp, and no time was lost in loading
a two ton truck with camp equipment, a week’s supply of rations,
boxes, lumber, and about 30 gallons of water. Our trusty Ford was
also loaded with baggage and lighter material, and we were soon on
our way. Our objective, a camp site at the edge of the desert near
the fossil bone deposit worked last year, was only two miles in an air
line from Hagerman, but there intervened the canyon of the deep
and swiftly flowing Snake River, and on its bank to the west a sloping
sandy escarpment of over 600 feet elevation above the river bed. To
reach this camp, therefore, it was necessary to cross the river on the
main highway bridge about four miles south of Hagerman and make
a detour of about 25 miles over a hilly and little-used country road
through the border of the desert country. Part of this route was over
a portion of the picturesque Old Oregon Trail, hallowed by the strug-
gles and privations of a pioneer people opposed by the stubbornly
waged warfare of the Indians, who were fighting for their beloved
lands and hunting grounds. Over this trail during the following weeks
we made our biweekly trips to town for water, supply provisions, and
materials as they were needed. I learned from the early settlers in
the region that this was a particularly hazardous stretch of trail in
the early days. Here the old trail left the river to wind its way up the
steep divides to the top of the plain about 5 miles to the west, whence
it continued westward over a dry sage-brush-covered desert to the
next place where water was to be found, a total distance between
watering places of over 20 miles. In these days of automobiles this
journey is so easily accomplished that the word hardship does not
occur in connection with it.

33
34 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

3ut not so with the early users of the trail. To them it was a real
hardship to be overcome. [ven for the stage coach, drawn by four or
occasionally six light horses, it was a long and tedious day’s travel.
And for the heavier loaded and slower moving emigrant and freight
outfits a single day did not suffice for the journey. It was their cus-
tom, I was told, to divide their wagon trains at the Snake River, tak-
ing one half up the first five miles of heavy climb to the top of the
divide and leaving them there for the night, while the oxen or horses

Fic. 27.—A bit of the Old Oregon Trail, looking east toward Snake River
from the top of the Plain, near which an Indian attack is reported to have
taken place.

were taken back to the river to bring on the remainder of the wagons
early the next morning, when the journey through the sandy sage
brush country to the next water hole was resumed. The necessity of
breaking up the wagon trains at this point naturally weakened their
defense against attack by hostile Indians. This fact was evidently
recognized and taken advantage of by the latter, for it was here some
of their most successful attacks were made. It was said that here one
whole emigrant train was surrounded and burned. Mute evidence of
the tragedy is still perceptible in the form of occasional pieces of
wagon irons that may be found scattered through the sage brush near
WwW

SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1930

(‘of61 ‘oun ‘Aayprry “AA “f Aq ydersojoyg) ‘Aypeoo] Ueutasep] ay} Ul Ysodep au0q [ISsOf dy} puke duiej—Rz “OIYT

36 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

the top of the hill. I here secured for the National Museum’s histori-
cal collection three of the old cast iron hub-thimbles.

Our party this year included Mr. C. P. Singleton, chief field assis-
tant; Mr. S. P. Welles, graduate student of the University of Cali-
fornia; Mr. Frank Garnier, cook and camp assistant ; and as occasion
permitted Mr. Elmer Cook, the discoverer of the fossil bone deposit.
After a week’s service Mr. Garnier was replaced by Mr. J. Young
Rogers as camp man.

Camp established, the work of the summer began where we left off
the previous season in the development of the fossil bone deposit.
This deposit is situated at the southern extremity of a short hill or
spur that juts out from the border of the plain, about a quarter of a
mile from our camp and about 45 to 60 feet below the top of the
hill. (See fig. 28.) It is evidently the remnant of a stream channel
deposit made up of cross-bedded layers of coarse and fine sand with
occasional pebbles and here and there patches and lenses of almost pure
clay, forming a part of the horizontally laminated beds of the Idaho
formation. hese beds reached a thickness of several hundred feet and
at one time extended many miles in every direction, completely occupy-
ing the area now excavated by erosion to form the Snake River Valley
of this region, and the present day rough terrain to the west and
south of Hagerman. The bone deposit was evidently at the time of
its formation a boggy, springy terrain, perhaps a drinking place for
wild animals in a semi-arid country where water holes were not abun-
dant. This assumption is based on the general character of the de-
posits as stated, and the fact that it contains the bones of literally
hundreds of animals, mostly belonging to an extinct species of horse.
For the most part the bones are disarticulated, intermingled, and
scattered in a way to suggest that they represent the slow accumula-
tion of many years rather than the sudden overwhelming of a large
herd in one grand catastrophe. Springs and swampy conditions are
indicated from the fact that there are in the deposits the remains of
frogs, fish, swamp turtles, beavers, and other water living animals,
and abundant evidence of vegetation as shown by remnants of coarse
grass stems, leaves, and even small pieces of wood. The best evidence
of the former presence of springs is the fact that numerous pebbles
are found scattered throughout many of the layers of both coarse and
fine sand, although there are no distinct layers of gravel. In the lower
stratum of this deposit the sand is heavily stained and many of the
fossil bones are encrusted and stained with light accumulations of bog
iron.
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1930

ios)
N

Frc. 30.—Fossil bones in situ. At left center is a skull and jaws of a horse,
Plesippus shoshonensis, still articulated with the entire neck and the anterior
portion of the thorax.
38 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Regardless of its origin, two seasons’ work has developed the fact
that this fossil bone deposit is one of the important discoveries in the
field of vertebrate paleontology of recent years. The outcome of these
operations by the Smithsonian Institution parties has been most grati-
fying. As already stated the principal yield of the deposit consists of
abundant remains of a hitherto unknown species of horse belonging to
the rare genus Plesippus, an animal which stands directly intermedi-
ate between the horses of the Pleistocene and present day, and the
three-toed kinds of still more ancient time. The material collected from
this deposit in the two seasons includes more than 40 more or less
complete skulls and sufficient bones of other parts of the body to
restore at least three or four entire skeletons. The bones collected
represent all stages of growth of both sexes from embryo to old age.
Thus they afford an unusual opportunity for a systematic study of
the species, especially in reference to the limits of individual and sex
variations.

Other fossil remains found associated with the much more abundant
horse material were those of a large beaver, an otter, a mastodon, a
large peccary, a rodent of the muskrat group, a frog, a swamp turtle,
and a small fish. From exposures of the same formation in the gen-
eral vicinity were also collected remains of these and additional extinct
species of mammals, the latter including several species of rodents, a
large cat, two species of camel, and a small ground sloth. These,
together with the animal remains of the fossil bone deposit, when
studied, will give rather definite evidence regarding the true age of
this mass of sedimentary accumulation to which has been given the
name Idaho formation. Vhis formation has hitherto been regarded
by some authorities as belonging to the Pleistocene, or so-called Ice
Age, and by others as representing the upper member of the next older
geologic period, the Pliocene. The preliminary study of the fossils
collected by our party in the Hagerman locality seems strongly to favor
the placing of their age as Upper Pliocene. This marks their time of
deposition as not less than a million years ago.

To the fossil hunter such a deposit as the one here described is of
much more than passing interest. First there is a satisfaction in work-
ing out a successful technique for collecting and preparing the bones
for shipment to the laboratory; and there is the added keen pleasure
of anticipation and expectation, as foot after foot and yard after yard
of undisturbed ground is worked over, that the next bone to be dis-
covered and developed will prove to be new to science or at least a
better specimen than has before been found of an already known
species. Such collecting also has its monotonous and prosaic side. At
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1930 39

eke Cat

Fic. 32—Close-up of section in excavation showing the general character
of the deposit. The shovel point rests on the bottom of the bone bed which
here is about 2 feet thick.
40 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

the Hagerman locality it is often necessary to spend hours and even
days in just plain shoveling of many cubic yards of sand to come to
the bone-bearing layer. Once reached the bones are for the most part
well mineralized, or petrified, and although more or less scattered are
usually complete. But often the separate bones are much broken or
cracked up, especially where they have lain for a long time near the
surface of the sloping hillside from which they outcrop. This neces-
sitates working very carefully around each bone, as developed, and
giving many of them special treatment to prevent their being pulled
apart in removing them from the loose sandy bed.

The first care, therefore, was to make long strippings to remove the
overburden from the bone bearing layers. Then as the bones were
uncovered one by one or in groups and brushed clean on top and sides,
the cracks and soft places were saturated with a thin solution of gum
arabic (acasia). Following this treatment, as their condition and the
collector’s experience suggested, they had to be still further protected
by pasting them with strips of burlap dipped in raw flour paste or
thin plaster of paris. This, when dry, forms a light, tough jacket
which securely holds each piece in its original position, and the speci-
men then may be turned over and the jacket completed on the lower
side to finish its preparation for packing and shipping. For skulls and
articulated sections this method had to be followed in nearly every
case. In certain sections in the deposit the bones instead of being sur-
rounded by a soft sandy mass, were completely incased with a nodular
or concretionary formation of varying thickness of very hard sand-
stone that is very tenacious and most difficult to break free from the
bone without injuring its surface. Sometimes the bones were thus so
deeply and solidly embedded as to make them almost worthless as
specimens.
FURTHER INVESTIGATIONS ON EVIDENCE OF
BAREY MAN IN FLORIDA

By JAMES W. GIDLEY,

Assistant Curator of Mammalian Fossils, U. S. National Museum

Following the controversy raised in scientific circles several years
ago by the discoveries of Dr. E. H. Sellards at Vero, Florida, regard-
ing the antiquity of man in that region, the Smithsonian Institution
has conducted a series of investigations at various localities along the
east coast of Florida, but principally at Melbourne and Vero. The
results of these expeditions, which were placed under my charge, have
been reported on from season to season, the last report appearing in
last year’s number of this publication, Thanks to an extension of the
kind generosity of Mr. Childs Frick, who for the past few seasons has
shared with the Smithsonian the expenses of these expeditions, work
in Florida was continued this year.

Melbourne was again chosen as the base of operations, and during
the greater part of February and March Mr. C. P. Singleton, my chief
field assistant of former years, and I carried on explorations, excavat-
ing considerable areas especially at Melbourne and other nearby locali-
ties. Fair success crowned our efforts, though perhaps not to the
same degree as on some of our former expeditions. The most impor-
tant discoveries of the season at the Melbourne locality included the
finding of two artifacts under circumstances that constitute additional
evidence of early man in Florida. The first of these is a crudely
formed arrow or spear point found by Mr. Singleton in situ in the
undisturbed upper layer of the fossil-bone-bearing deposit known as
“bed No. 2” of Sellards. It was lying directly under one of the large
bones of a poorly preserved skeleton of a mastodon.

The other artifact is a small bone awl taken from the undisturbed
sand of the No. 2 bed somewhat below its middle section. In both
instances the excavated areas were originally covered with a few feet
of loose but characteristically stratified swamp deposit composed of
alternating layers of sand, leaf mould, and swamp muck, positive evi-
dence that the artifacts were a part of the formation in which they
were found and not to be accounted for on the assumption of later
intrusions. Several good specimens also were added to our growing
collection of fossil mammal bones from this locality.

*Explorations and Field-Work of the Smithsonian Institution in 19209, p. 37.

4I
42 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Fic. 33.—Following a lead near the old canal bank. Locality, a few hun-
dred feet south of the Country Club Golf Links, 1930 expedition. Melbourne,
Florida.

Fre. 34.—Searching for fossil bones in the lower stratum of the “ No. 2 bed’
( Pleistocene). Locality just below Golf Links. Melbourne, Florida.
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1930 43

Fic. 35.—Inlet to the St. Lucie Canal near where mammoth remains were
found at the Indiantown locality.

Fic. 36.—Excavating in ‘“ No. 2 bed” for remains of mammoth discovered
at the Indiantown locality, just back from point shown at extreme right
foreground in Figure 35.

4
44 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

During the season we had occasion to examine a reported find of
mammoth and mastodon bones on a truck farm near the ocean below
St. Augustine. Here we found that the workmen, under the direction
of the son of the farm foreman, had excavated the large part of a
skeleton of the mammoth, but as they then planned to keep the speci-
men for private exhibit we did no excavating there and returned to
Melbourne. The most important work done other than at Melbourne
was along the St. Lucie Canal, about 12 miles east of Lake Okeechobee
near Indiantown. Here we secured a well preserved pair of lower
jaws and a few other parts of a mammoth, and did sufficient develop-
ment work to determine that the general geologic structure is the
same as that at Vero and Melbourne. The formation underlying the
No. 2 bed in the Indiantown locality, however, seems to vary in
character more than at Melbourne, where marine shells form the
greater part of the mass. At Indiantown large masses of sand under-
lie thin layers of shells or in certain areas replace them entirely. The
item of greatest value, perhaps, resulting from our work in this lo-
cality, was the finding of a molar tooth of one of the more primitive
mastodons. This tooth came from a consolidated bed of sand about
20 feet below the present surface of the land and underlying a thin
shell layer of supposedly older age than our fossil-bearing beds known
as the Melbourne or No. 2 bed formation. The mastodon tooth in
question is of the type of those found commonly in the Pliocene, and
thus implies either that the lower strata of the fossil beds at Indian-
town are Pliocene in age, or that here in Florida this particular species
of mastodon lived on into the Pleistocene, or still more probably, the
tooth may have been redeposited, in the place where found, from an
older deposit of Pliocene age.

This and other interesting problems in connection with the early
history of Florida remain still to be solved, and it is only by a con-
tinuation of systematic work similar to that which the Smithsonian
Institution has been carrying on for the past few years that this can
be done.
COLERPCHING SILVER’ MINERALS IN ONLARIO;
CANADA

By EDWARD P. HENDERSON,
Assistant Curator of Geology, U. S. National Museum

For the purpose of acquiring a series of silver minerals for exhibi-
tion, I left Washington late in August on a collecting trip into the
Province of Ontario, Canada, the National Museum’s collections being
badly in need of material from the rich silver camps of this nearby
region. Practically the entire month of September was spent in north-
ern Ontario, and it would be difficult to select a more delightful sea-
son in which to visit this magnificent country.

At Toronto I spent several days in inspecting the collections at the
Royal Ontario Museum of Mineralogy, selecting exchange material,
and consulting with the mineralogists of the staff as to the best areas
and mines to visit.

Leaving Toronto, I first visited the Cobalt district some 300 miles
north, where the country in general is rather rough with many rocky
ridges, between which are lakes, swampy wastes, or agricultural low-
lands. These lowlands and therefore the streams, lakes, and high-
ways generally lie in a north and south direction. There is abundant
timber, mostly spruce, birch, balsam, and jack pine. Many forests have
been swept by devastating fires leaving only charred stumps stand-
ing; in other areas, where more time has elapsed since the fires or
original clearing for lumber, a dense, almost jungle-like growth has
taken possession, the new growth being less suitable for lumber than
the original stand of virgin timber.

Previous to 1903 the area around Cobalt consisted of wooded land
which served as a source for lumber and constituted a natural bar-
rier to the agricultural lands farther north, but in that year, during
the excavating for the Temiskaming and Northern Railroad, narrow
veins of phenomenally high silver values were discovered. The silver
content was so great that trained engineers who came to examine the
find thought that the quantity could not be large because of its rich
quality but time has proved these conclusions to be erroneous. The
history of this celebrated silver camp is very dramatic and has been
told so often that it need not be repeated here.

The silver veins vary from minute seams up to a thickness of ten
inches. In places the veins are almost solid silver and again the metal

45
40 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Fic. 37.—Silver mass from Keeley Mines, Silver Centre, Ontario. Weight
263 pounds, estimated to be 80 per cent pure silver.

Itc. 38.—The vein here shown varies in width from 6 to 25 centimeters,
consisting of silver and calcite,
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, I930 47

occurs as a fine network of delicate veins or small irregular masses in
both calcite and cobaltite.

As simple a statement of the geology as can be given is that when
this basic rock, called Nipissing diabase, was intruded into the older
rocks, fractures were developed along the contacts and in these frac-
tures the ore was undoubtedly deposited by solution originating in the
cdiabase.

A large irregular mass of silver found at the Keeley Mines, Silver
Centre, Ontario, was exactly the type of material needed for our exhi-
bition, provided some of the ragged appendages which marred the
symmetry of the specimen could be removed. This operation developed
into a thrilling experience. Hammering, even with a sledge, made no
impression except a small bruise on account of the toughness of the
silver. Finally, in despair, the mine captain suggested a shot of dyna-
mite. Two sticks were plastered on the side of the specimen under a
damp blanket of sand, the fuse was lighted, and we retreated to safe
quarters to await the report. And what a report it was! Strangely
enough very little silver was removed. One small fragment made a
non-stop flight through the side of the mill house and several windows
in nearby buildings were shattered, but most important, from my point
of view at least, was the small crack which had just started through
the specimen. Smaller charges of dynamite were carefully placed and
exploded and little by little the irregular silver prongs were removed.
Perhaps few geologists have had the experience of trimming such a
precious sample by so unique and striking a method.

The next district visited was Sudbury, the most important nickel
district in the world. Much of the region surrounding the city of Sud-
bury is practically barren of vegetation and perhaps to the tourist
appears as a desolate waste, but to the geologist it is an admirable ex-
posure of a series of interesting rocks. The igneous rock in which the
nickel ore is found is a norite, this intruded rock forming a laccolithic
sheet some 36 miles long and approximately 17 miles wide. This
nickel eruptive was intruded under a thick blanket of older sediments
and the slow cooling permitted the ore minerals to separate out
towards the bottom of the laccolith. The ore is monotonously uni-
form in character over much of the district. It consists of pyrrhotite,
pentlandite, and chalcopyrite, and appreciable quantities of platinum
metals are also recovered from the ore body.

A rather rapid series of visits was made to a number of the different
pegmatite dykes in this province, resulting in the acquisition of sev-
eral rather recently described minerals which were lacking in the
48 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

National Museum’s collections. These pegmatite dykes are located in
two rather widely separated districts surrounding Parry Sound and
farther east toward Bancroft. Several large and a few small specimens
were collected which are now in the Museum’s exhibit.

The success of the trip was due in a large measure to the hearty
cooperation of mining companies, quarry owners, and of the staff of
the Royal Ontario Museum of Mineralogy.
APL ED RWitih, ik BIRDS OF NORTHERN, SPAIN
By ALEXANDER WETMORE,

Assistant Secretary, Smithsonian Institution

Landing in the little seaport of Vigo in northwestern Spain late in
the evening of April 23, 1930, I was awakened at dawn the following
morning by the cheerful twittering of swallows at my window, the
first species of living bird seen on a continent whose life was entirely
new to me. Formalities for the entry of my scientific equipment were
soon completed, thanks to arrangements made by the American Am-
bassador to Spain, the Honorable Irwin B. Laughlin, a Regent of the
Smithsonian Institution, and ina few hours I was en route for Madrid,
where through the same interested official necessary permits for field
collecting were granted.

As an introduction to what was in store for me, friends at the
Museo Nacional de Ciencias Naturales arranged an excursion into
the nearby pine forests of the Sierra de Guadarrama where I spent
three days quartered in the Estacion Alpina de Biologia at a little
more than 5,000 feet above the sea. In spite of almost continuous
snow and rain I found here numerous birds, including among others
two species of titmice, the nuthatch, robin, stone-chat, hedge sparrow,
and goldcrest, all common birds but of keen interest to one who had
not before seen them alive.

Field work began in earnest on arrival at the little town of Puente
de los Fierros at an elevation of 1,800 feet above the sea on the north
slope of the Sierra Cantabrica, the great range of rugged mountains
that as a continuation of the Pyrenees extends across northern Spain.
The town lay in a deep valley that led up to the Pajares Pass, with the
lower slopes divided by stone fences or lines of brush into pastures
and cultivated fields frequently pitched at an angle of 45°, while wind-
ing lanes crossing the hill slopes led to higher levels grown with brush
and occasional groves of trees. The country people told me that I had
brought spring, as the grass became green, fruit trees blossomed, and
violets and other spring flowers appeared during the few days that I
was there.

Trees in Spain are as much a crop as grass, and impress one as
having a hard and cheerless life. The forests in the Cantabrians are
principally of oak and chestnut, growing to a diameter of four to six
feet, there being no native pine in this range of mountains. The tops

49
50 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Itc. 39.—Estacion Alpina de Biologia in the Sierra de Guadarrama.

Fic. 40.—Near Puente de los Fierros. Note pollarded trees.
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1930 51

and larger limbs are cut off 20 to 30 feet from the ground, leaving the
huge trunks grotesquely gnarled and twisted to stand in irrregular
array, a hobgoblin woodland that often appears dark and gloomy with
little animal life in evidence. When new shoots grow from the pol-
larded trunks these are cut at intervals of a few years until with the
passing of time decay creeps in through these repeated wounds, the
tree trunk gives up the uneven battle with man, and is finally cut down
and made into fire wood, Extensive forests are distant from the
towns and in the better settled regions are of little area.

Travel along the numerous footpaths at Fierros ordinarily was
not difficult, except that one was continually climbing or descending,
but the intervening slopes were steep and high so that collecting speci-
mens was attended with considerable labor. The higher slopes had
huge exposures of massive rock while far beyond were peaks covered
with snow. Trees and bushes along the rushing streams of the lower
valleys were half in leaf but a thousand feet above on exposed slopes
the winds blew chill and buds were barely opening.

Small birds were common, particularly in the shrubbery along the
lower footpaths. The wren, a counterpart of our winter wren, sang
gaily from tangles of weeds and brush, searching for holes in which
to place its nest. The chiff-chaff, an Old World warbler of tiny size,
sang its insistent song from low trees while hunting busily for insects
in company with the black-cap, a larger species of the same family,
with more musical song and quieter movements. The meadow bunt-
ing, a sparrow with gray and black streaked head, was found in pairs
through the open pastures, and on occasion I found its more brilliant
relative, the yellow-hammer. Both are like our crowned sparrows in
habit. Titmice were found in profusion ranging from the delicately
colored blue tit to the slender bodied long-tailed tit, five species rang-
ing through the same thickets and woodlands.

Boarding the Mixrto one morning—a train that carried both pas-
sengers and freight—I arrived within a short time at the little village
of Busdongo on the northern side of the Pajares Pass at an elevation
of about 4,300 feet with the summit of the pass a few hundred feet
above. In the valleys here were little squares of cultivated fields and
pastures separated by rock fences, and above, slopes covered with
green grass or mats of heather and gorse. Banks of snow lay every-
where, their melting feeding the little streams, and the higher hills were
entirely white except where naked rock projected in rough, angular
spires and massive blocks of cold, blue-gray stone. Flowers. dotted
the meadows, clear bird notes and songs came to the ear, and over all
SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

52

Fic. 41.—The mountain village of Busdongo.

Fic. 42.—The Pajares Pass above Busdongo, one of the principal
thoroughfares through the Cantabrian Mountains,
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1930 53

Fic. 43.—Valley of the Rio Esla below Riafio.

Fic. 44.—A channel of the Esla in the village of Riafo.
54 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

lay a golden sunshine bathing the world with a warm light that miti-
gated the chill of breezes blowing over the snowbanks. Pajares Pass,
the frontier of the ancient kingdom of Asturias from which I had just
come, was a sharply cut dividing line between the better watered brush-
and tree-grown slopes descending steeply to the northern coastal plain
toward Oviedo, and the more arid gradual decline toward the broad
plains of Leon on the north with scattered mats of low brush as the
principal woody vegetation.

In this world of open mountain slopes and meadows, birds were
abundant. Chaffinches, pipits, and yellow-hammers were everywhere.
Whin-chats and stone-chats were common, and skylarks sang above
the higher meadows, appearing as tiny specks hovering high against
a sky of the clearest blue. Wheat-ears followed stone fences or rocky
ledges, and white wagtails were found along the rough stream beds.
The latter, called locally Javanderas (washerwomen) because like the
native laundresses they had their principal activities along the streams,
on alighting after a short flight twitched their long tails rapidly a
dozen times and then stood motionless. On the rocky slopes above
were found occasional rock thrushes singing clearly from open ledges,
and approached only by arduous climbing. With them were alpine
accentors, cousins of the little hedge sparrows that abounded in the
matted brush above the valleys. One morning among the higher ridges
a curious birdeall came for a time without visible source, until finally
I located a black shadow moving along the mountain slope far below
and, tracing it to its source toward the sun, saw a crowlike bird sweep-
ing in bounds and circles over the mountain ridges. The binoculars
revealed the curved red bill of a chough, and I watched its graceful
evolutions for some time with keen delight.

The heat of the city of Leén in the lowlands was almost oppressive
after the sharper air of the mountains, and after a day during which
I visited the cathedral, with jackdaws and merlins flying about its
huge tower, I was pleased to continue by auto to Cistierna and from
there to the inland village of Riano located in an open valley among
mountains at an elevation of 3,500 feet. The little fonda where I
obtained quarters was clean and comfortable, the people of the village
were friendly, and the weather was pleasant ; and I was told again that
spring had arrived in my company. Buds were already opening on
the trees near the village, and during the next two weeks leaves grew
apace until the lower slopes were entirely green and buds were burst-
ing on the trees at the upper edge of the forests.

At Riafo the Esla and Yuso rivers joined in a large stream abound-
ing in trout. The open valleys were cultivated, while the slopes of the
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1930 55

Fic. 45.—Beech forest near the summit of the Collado de Terguena.

Fic. 46.—A storehouse for grain in Riafio. Note the flat stones at the corners
to prevent entry of rats.
56 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION
hills were given to the grazing of herds of sheep, goats, and cattle.
On many of the lower slopes were extensive forests of oak, beech,
and chestnut, while above were open meadows dotted with low mats
of gorse, and beyond, bare, rocky peaks rising to an elevation of 6,000

=e

Fic. 47.—-Stork’s nest on a church tower near Riafio.

feet or more. As in other sections in northern Spain the people lived
clustered in little towns and villages, where their houses of stone with
roofs of tile and slate huddled closely together. Daily men and women
went out to tend their flocks or work their fields so that there were
few country habitations.
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1930

qn
N

Fic. 48.— View in the village of Riafo.

Fic. 49.—View down the valley below the Ponton Pass in the
Sierra del Ponton.
58 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

In the village, storks built huge nests in poplar trees, with one on
the tower of a little church, wagtails nested under loose tiles in the
roofs, and chaffinches and bright colored linnets chattered gaily.
Northward migration among the smaller birds was in full course so
that daily there were new arrivals. The song of the cuckoo—of which
the striking of the cuckoo clock is so exact an imitation—was heard
through the hills, with the rolling calls of the green woodpecker and
the harsh notes of jays that inhabited the scrub and seldom came into
the open.

As days passed excursions were made steadily farther afield. Below
the pass known as the Collado de Terguena was a fine forest of beech
with the trees so heavily hung with moss that small birds were seen
among the branches with difficulty. In the Sierra de Ormas was a
great woodland of oak and chestnut as yet largely untouched by the
ax of the woodchopper. From the snow-covered slopes above there
was a wonderful view across wild, uninhabited mountain country in
which wolves, wild boars, and bears were reputed to range. From the
more distant Sierra del Ponton I had a view of the jagged Picos de
Europa, the highest points in the Cantabrian Range, inaccessible
however until later in the season because of the depth of snow in the
intervening mountain passes. Work here was finally concluded because
of the necessities of a schedule including other duties, though another
month might have been profitably spent in this area.

From Riafo I continued by motor to Cangas de Onis toward the
north, passing through a remarkably deep and narrow defile, cut in
places to a depth of more than 1,500 feet, at times with barely room for
a stream and the auto road at the bottom, with cliffs rising precipi-
tously on either hand. Field work was at an end; the interesting col-
lections of specimens included a number of local races of birds new
to the collections of the National Museum, where the birds of Spain
had been previously almost unrepresented, and I came finally to
Santander and the French frontier with the hope that some future
journey might let me see more of the pleasant lands of Spain.
(iE CNUIStsOr AV ES PE RANT A BO IAL DL

By ALEXANDER WETMORE,
Assistant Secretary, Smithsonian Institution,

AND

WATSON M. PERRYGO
Assistant Scientific Aid, U. S. National Museum

The Parish-Smithsonian Expedition to Haiti, organized by the late
Lee H. Parish, with the financial assistance and cooperation of his
father S. W. Parish, left Miami, Florida, in the 80-foot ketch-
rigged auxiliary yacht Esperanza, on February 15, 1930. In addition
to the two mentioned the party included Mrs. S. W. Parish, who
assisted in radio communication, in photography, and in other ways,
and Watson M. Perrygo of the staff of taxidermists of the United
States National Museum. Lee Parish served as captain and navigator
and head of the party, and in addition assisted his father and Perrygo
in collecting specimens, being indefatigable in his efforts to promote
the success of the work. The work of the expedition was concerned
with the collection of zoological material, particularly of birds and
reptiles. The Esperanza, thoroughly seaworthy, offered an excep-
tional opportunity for work on islands lying off the Haitian coast, and
it was to these little-worked areas that the major part of the time in
the field was directed.

The route to Haiti led along the north coast of Cuba with stops
for the collection of specimens at Gibara, Port Tanamo, and finally
at Baracoa. The first specimen of the expedition was a migrant
Maryland yellowthroat obtained as the Esperanza passed near Bimini
in the Bahamas. Numerous birds were obtained at Gibara, and in the
better watered region about Port Tanamo, with its dense forests, col-
lecting continued apace. Cayo Grande de Moa and the Moa and
Fabrico River were fruitful spots. Birds abounded, with trogons,
parrots, todies, and others of brilliant plumage giving a touch of color
to the daily bags of the collectors.

On March 9 after a delightful trip through waters where imagina-
tion might picture the passage of pirate ships and Spanish galleons of
earlier days, the Esperanza anchored in the harbor of the quaint tropi-
cal town of Baracoa. Bananas and cocoa-beans are the two chief
products here and the plantations from which they come are well
worth seeing. The party again set sail two nights later by the light

5 59
60 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

en t *

© inh 2)

- —

Fic. 50.—The Esperanza under sail.

Fic. 51—The rocky shore of Petite Gonave Island.
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1930 61

of a tropical moon, passed into the Windward Passage between Cuba
and Haiti, and then on March 13 anchored in the harbor at Port-
au-Prince.

After obtaining the necessary permits for scientific collecting
through the kind offices of Gen. J. H. Russell, American High Com-
missioner, and others, the Esperanza with Col. and Mrs. Coyle and
Lieut. Wirkus added to the party, crossed to Gonave Island, working
first at Petite Gonave, where the anchor was dropped in crystal clear
water in which schools of brilliantly colored fish swam among beauti-
ful coral formations.

Petite Gonave, east of La Gonave Island, has an area of approxi-
mately 15 acres, most of which is of a very sharply eroded limestone
formation, with the center a mangrove swamp. Dozens of rhinoceros
iguanas sunned themselves on the rocks, and when approached bobbed
their heads up and down, swelling their throats like the Anolis before
disappearing clumsily in the crevices of the rocks.

Gonave Island proper, more than 30 miles long and from 7 to 8
miles wide at the widest point, in general is arid and open, rising in
hills like those of Haiti opposite. Collections were made at the western
end and at Anse-a-Galets, the headquarters of the Gendarmerie for
the island. Native dances executed to the barbaric rhythm of wooden
drums with heads of hide stretched while green, and the weird and
mournful accompaniment of bamboo flutes added to the interest of the
work.

On March 23 the party returned to Port-au-Prince for supplies and
then, reduced to the original personnel, sailed for the Cayemite Islands
on the northern coast of the southern peninsula.

Ién route they anchored for a time in Baraderes Bay. After show-
ing credentials to the chief of the section at Grand Boucan, the collec-
tors crossed Baraderes Bay in one of the small boats to Mapou te
explore two caves for extinct animal bones. The first one was small
and very dry, and several tests there produced nothing. A barn owl
was shot, and ona shelf some human remains were found. The other
proved to be equally barren; it was a deep cave with water seeping
through the ceiling, the moisture destroying any bones that might have
been preserved there. Many birds were seen in the banana, cocoanut.
and mango trees.

An expedition on horseback up the fertile valley of Petite Trou de
Nippes, grown with royal and cocoanut palms, high bush cotton,
bananas and coffee, with the chief of the section as guide led to an-
other very large cave containing a pool of crystal-clear water, which
was said to have been used by natives as a place of worship. Birds,
62 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Fic. 52.—View on the Baraderes River.

Fic. 53.—A group on Grande Cayemite Island.
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1930 63

reptiles, and mollusks were collected, and the natives captured 100
live lizards for exhibition in the National Zoological Park in Wash-
ington.

Grand Cayemite, the next stop, is a rather large island, rough and
rocky, with large patches of Madame Michel grass. Parrots and white-
winged doves were abundant. More detailed work was done on Petite
Cayemite, little or no collecting having been done there previously.
Petite Cayemite is a small island of roughly eroded limestone covered
with Madame Michel grass, which grows densely in some sections.
Travel was difficult, but the collectors were persistent, securing excel-
lent series of birds and reptiles, with some fine specimens of fish and
crustaceans.

On April 19 the Esperanza left for Ile 4 Vache, stopping for mail
at Jéremie, an old French town, and then sailed west along the coast
to Dame Marie. A rough sea forced the yacht to anchor for two days
in Bigie Bay, a small indentation on the extreme western end of the
peninsula. Fish, crustaceans, and other aquatic creatures were col-
lected at night by lowering a light over the side of the boat, attract-
ing hundreds to the surface where they were easily secured with a net.

After a brief lay-over at Aux Cayes for supplies, the Esperanza
anchored in Feret Bay, Ile a Vache Island, on April 27. This island
is approximately 8 miles long and 4 miles wide. Feret Bay is on the
west end, surrounded by sandy beaches, behind which large cocoanut
palms, cashew, and mango trees grow. The natives as a whole are
much healthier looking than the average Haitian of other regions and
are well-to-do through their crops of bananas, sugar cane, and sweet
potatoes as well as their cattle. Crocodiles were obtained from one
of the two lagoons on the western end of the island; lizards, boas and
vine snakes were very common; and over one hundred birds were
obtained. The island had previously been unknown zoologically.

Returning to Bigie Bay, under favorable weather conditions, the
Esperanza sailed 30 miles west to Navassa, an island seldom visited
by naturalists, or for that matter by others, except for the lighthouse
tender that comes to it periodically. Navassa is a rocky mass about
14 miles long, a 20-foot cliff around its entire shoreline making it
inaccessible except in Lulu Bay, a small indentation in the rocky wall
where there is a steel ladder leading down to the water. Because it
is exposed to the open sea, this little bay is unsafe for ships except in
the quiet seas of the early morning. The Esperanza anchored there
in the calm of the morning of May to. The island itself is uninhabited,
and is covered with low trees and thorny bushes. The rough, eroded
64 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

cae
&

i
h

a

Fic. 55.—Crocodiles from the lagoon on Tle a Vache.
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1930

i
|
i

Fic. 56.—A shark on board ship.

qn

Fic. 57—The Esperanza at anchor off Navassa Island.
66 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

surface rock makes travel extremely difficult. Multitudes of red-
footed boobies and frigate birds nested and roosted everywhere, and
doves and a vireo were the common land birds. Lizards abounded,
and black marine iguanas were reported but were not found. A very
fair collection was made in the few hours that it was possible to
remain, though the blazing sun over the dry scrub nearly prostrated the
collectors.

On the return to Port-au-Prince a second stop was made at Petite
Gonave to secure living iguanas for the National Zoological Park. The
native fishermen who live there are very much afraid of these great
lizards, but said that they could be captured by putting rum in hollows
in the rocks where the iguanas would drink it, making it an easy matter
to catch and handle them, The six obtained however were captured
by hand, the dangerous attributes of these animals being wholly
imaginary.

The Esperanza sailed from Port-au-Prince for Miami on May 24,
leaving Mr. Perrygo to return a few days later on the steamer Ancon
to New York.

In its objective of collecting specimens on remote islands little
known zoologically the expedition was singularly successful, the many
specimens obtained, particularly of birds and reptiles, forming a valu-
able addition to the Haitian collections of the United States National
Museum. The birds will be the subject of a special report, and the
notes on the reptiles will be included in a complete account of the
herpetology of this region. The success of the work was due largely
to Mr. Lee H. Parish, who was responsible for the organization and
plan, and whose skill as a navigator, and resourcefulness under the
trying conditions of this type of travel in waters remote from facili-
ties and assistance, made possible the itinerary followed. He assisted
constantly in the zoological work, both in collecting and preparation,
in addition to his other duties. His untimely death a few months after
the close of the trip, on the eve of development of plans for further
work of a similar nature, is mourned by his many friends.
BIOLOGICAL -COELECTING ON ~ TEN-CAN: ISEAND”

BY HENRY (C) KELEERS;
Umted States Navy

Niuafoou Island in the Toga Archipelago, nicknamed “ Tin-Can
Island” for reasons explained later, the last independent kingdom
in the South Seas, was the site selected for the operations of the
1930 United States Naval Observatory Eclipse Expedition. Through
the courtesy of the Naval Observatory and the friendly cooperation of
the Navy Department, I was again detailed to act as representative
of the Smithsonian Institution for the purpose of making biological
collections. The expedition left San Francisco July 31 and arrived at
Tutuila, American Samoa, August 13. We remained at Samoa four
days while the U. S. S. Tanager was loaded with the 60 tons of stores
and scientific apparatus, and the 12,000 feet of lumber required in
setting up the various cameras and astronomical instruments. Leaving
Samoa August 18, we arrived off Niuafoou Island August 21. The
shore is rocky, with lava benches backed by cliffs 70 to 100 feet
high rising abruptly from the ocean. Landing on the lava rocks at
the village of Angaha was a most difficult feat, but luck was with us,
and the sea was calm for 48 hours, a very rare occurrence. All the
equipment, including the tube of the Einstein camera which weighed
T100 pounds, was transferred from the small boats to the lava rocks
with the assistance of the natives without accident. The equipment
was then hauled up a steep trail to the top of the cliff 70 feet high and
the camp site was located on the summit near the village of Angaha.

Niuafoou Island, pronounced New-ah-fo-oh, latitude 15° 33’ 52” S.,
and longitude 175° 37’ 46” W., was discovered by Captain Edwards
in the British Naval vessel Pandora, August 3, 1791, and named by
him Proby Island; it was afterwards named Good Hope Island by
the Dutch navigator Schouten, and is still so designated on the hydro-
graphic charts. The nickname “ Tin-Can Island” was given to it
from the unique method by which mail is delivered there. The mail
steamer, which comes about every six weeks, throws the mail over-
board in a sealed can and the natives swim out and tow it to the
shore. The outgoing mail is carried out to the steamer by the swim-
mers, who hold it on poles above the water. Niuafoou Island, one of
the Toga Archipelago, is the last independent kingdom in the South
Seas, ruled over by Queen Salote Tabou and a parliament, foreign

67
INSTITUTION

SMITHSONIAN

68

-o}oy ) ‘soded onsst

ope ‘UOoul 9} FO ss

1p
aIp

(‘staqjay Aq ydesis
atO[OD pue Yoo ede} Jo
[eIUOUIsIIy— OS “OLA

‘OZOI JO MOY CAR] 94} JO 3UI9}x9 9y}
SMOYS }J9] Je BaTe YOR oy TL ‘Osepodiysiy eso y
‘noofentny JO purest ay} FO yaeyQ—es “OL

Eee
“yas | fo)

(maypyo py Ors sary ,
(weg aaogqn wai 94 INOGD aIDLAN'S

IHVT IVA

Sy no

NS EER

saa po

a
? way

7,

SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, I930 69

affairs being looked after by the New Zealand Government under the
mandate.

Niuafoou is one of the world’s famous volcanoes. It is a crater
island 44 by 5 miles in size, inclosing a circular lalze about 2 miles in
diameter. The narrow circular ridge of land around the lake is 200 to
800 feet high, forming steep cliffs facing the lake. The lake has three
small wooded islands in it, one of which contains two smaller crater
lakes. The island is the peak of a volcano rising 6,500 feet from the
ocean floor, which in that vicinity 1s formed by a flat shoulder of the
Australian continent about 6,000 feet below the surface. Upon this
the volcano rises as an immense cone 25 miles in diameter at the base.

Fic. 60.—General view of the astronomical camp, showing the 63-foot
direct view camera, the 65-foot reflecting camera, and the Einstein double
camera on the right. (Photograph by Kellers. )

The known eruptions occurred in 1853, 1886, 1912, and 1929. All
started with the splitting of the mountain across its flank except that
of 1886, which was in the old crater lake, explosive in type, and mostly
of ash, forming sand hills and lagoons. These ash hills are being
gradually covered with a dense growth of ironwood trees, the only
trees that appear to grow and thrive in the volcanic ash of the island.

The 1929 eruption was on the western side of the island, the fis-
sure system bursting open at 3 a. m., July 25, 1929, near the south-
west corner of the island, and line northward in a series of
fissures until it nearly reached the shore at the northwest. The cracks
were more than 33 miles long, requiring several hours in opening the
full length of the line of fracture. This delay gave the natives of the
village of Futu time to escape to the ridge. The sick and the aged were
70 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Fic. 61.—The S. S. Tofua of the Union Steamship Company, which passes the island
every six weeks. The mail for the island is thrown overboard from the steamer in a sealed
can. (Photograph by Kellers.)

Fic. 62.—Natives swimming in with the mail in the sealed can. Hence the popular name
““Tin-Can Island.’’ The swimmers use long poles as life preservers. (Photograph by
George Finau.)

Fic. 63.—After the volcanic eruption of 1929 the walls of the Catholic Church is all that
remains of the village of Futu, on the western shore of the island. The natives had a
miraculous escape. (Photograph by Kellers.)
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1930 al

bundled up and many fled naked, a drizzling rain adding to their
misery. Over all hung the pall of smoke from the oncoming fire at
the south, the trade winds bringing the menacing odor of deadly sul-
phurous fumes. The Futu-ites got across the northern crack before
it opened, but when it did open, what a flood of fiery lava poured
down on the ill-fated village! Two-thirds of the village was com-
pletely wiped out by the lava, and at least ten lava flows reached the
sea along a three-mile front. The chasms are 30 feet across where the
lava came in greatest volume. Cocoanut trees by thousands were
molded in lava casing, some of which were measured and found to be
13 feet high. They stand now in groves of rocky sentinels, the largest
field of tree molds anywhere in the world. The eruption lasted until
10 a.m. on that day, and many of the fissures are still smoking and
giving off sulphurous fumes. Fortunately, no lives were lost, and the
natives of Futu have now settled near the village of Angaha.

As soon as we were settled in camp intensive collecting began.
Using the lure of candy, chewing gum, and bead necklaces, I soon had
all of the children and many of the grown folks of the island working
for me as collectors, and numerous specimens of crustacea, shells,
lizards, and insects were brought in that I could not otherwise have
obtained in the eight weeks allowed for collecting. Owing to the
rough and rugged coast line, only three outrigger canoes were used
about the island, and consequently the natives do very little fishing.
The large seine I had with me was a curiosity to them, and as no
beaches suitable for hauling it were found, it could not be used.

When the native does go fishing he uses a large pole called Vaca-
IKauhaga, which has two small pieces of wood lashed to the sides at
the end, on which the catch of fish is strung. The native dives into the
ocean with the pole, swims out for some distance and rests on the
pole, fishing with a hand line often for hours at a time. The natives
are good swimmers and divers; one boy was adept in diving and pick-
ing starfish off the rocks in water four and five fathoms deep. Each
time he emerged with a number of specimens he was rewarded with a
corncob pipe and tobacco, which meant as much to him as the star-
fish did to me.

Dragonflies were very numerous, and many were collected. Only
one kind of butterfly—a world-wide species, Anosia plexippus
seen, and several were collected. All the birds, 20 in number, noted

Was

by Hubner in 1876, were seen except Puffinus obscurus, a dusty shear-
water, and all but two were collected.

A large series of the interesting Megapod was obtained. This genus
contains many species; the one found on this island is known as
bo

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

ei

Fic. 64.—One of the fumaroles still smoking from the 1929 eruption. The
lava on cooling takes on fantastic shapes; the large mass to the left appears
to have had the face of “Santa Claus” carved in it. (Photograph by
Kellers. )

. Ae BH
™ - :
me OE

Fic. 65.—Doctor Kellers examining a morning catch of fish. Strange as it
may seem, these South Sea Islanders are not expert fishermen. (Photograph
by T. A. Jaggar, Jr.

J oo Iv
ifr
"

fen ye is 1 Se
t a

es Eng
ee 050%. Soe

Fic. 66.—Digging for the eggs of the “ Melau.’
the scratchings of the bird
Lower, the boy has found the egg,

white hat is the son of the trader and
by Kellers.)

on the side of the hill.
and all are rewarded with cigarettes.
my able assistant on collecting trips.

Bs

Oe Me hoe

* Upper, a nest has been discovered by
Middle, going down head foremost.
The lad with the
(Photograph

lh
4o
74. SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Megapodius pritchardi, and is among the smallest of the genus but lays
a very large egg. The average measurements of the bird are: length
304 mm., circumference 228 mm., and spread of wings 609 mm. The
average measurements of the light buff-colored egg are: long diameter
70 mm., short diameter 45 mm. The bird lays its egg in the ash hills
of the 1886 eruption on the western side of the lake shore. It then
buries the egg I to 2 meters deep in the ash and fills up the hole all the
way to the surface. The temperature of the ash at the spot where the
egg is laid is 98.1° F.; this heat is not connected with the heat of the
volcano, but is rather a Dutch-oven effect. When the chick is hatched
it scratches its way out of the ash and is ready to begin life’s battles.
I could not find any evidence of the male bird tending the young
chicks, as is usual with this genus in Australia and the Philippines.

The most important product of the soil is the cocoanut. The island
is a veritable paradise for cocoanut palms, for they have never been
attacked by the rhinoceros beetle, Oryctes rhinosccrae, the scourge of
the South Sea Islands. It is one of the few islands in the Pacific free
of that pest, probably because of its isolated position and consequent
lack of communication with other islands. The trees here grow very
tall, the roots forming a dense network extending out in all directions
for many feet, enabling them to withstand the intense trade winds.
This tree gives the natives shelter and food; it also furnishes a wel-
come substitute for drinking water, as there is no fresh water on the
island except the rain water that is caught in small tanks, which is
quickly used up in the dry season. The water of the green cocoanuts
is therefore the natives’ only beverage, and on the warmest days it is
found to be cool and a very refreshing and wholesome drink. The
extensive use of cocoanuts for domestic purposes by the natives does
not seem to decrease the crop to any extent, for copra (the meat of
the ripe cocoanut) 1s the one and only export from the island.

There 1s evidence that the western side of the island is rising. The
western shore of the lake shows an uplift and the lava is covered with
lime deposits in the shape of large blisters, probably formed by blue-
green algae. Under these blisters were found numerous small crabs
of the genus A/etasesarma. Vow-net hauls were made from time to
time in the lake with good results, one of the interesting specimens
thus collected being a small shrimp of the genus Caridina, but no fish
were found in the lake The water is no doubt accumulated rain water,
and its alkalinity is due to the volcanic gases bubbling up from below.
Five small sulphur lakes are located on the southern end of the island
near the crater lake, one a bubbling lake giving off sulphuretted hydro-
gen gas, the temperature of which was 98° F. Samples of water from
all the lakes and craters were collected and brought back for analysis.
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, I930

75

Fic. 67-—A buxom Niuafoouite maiden combing her lustrous black hair.
(Photograph by Kellers.)

an

Fic, 68—Natives roofing a house with the fronds of the cocoanut palm.
Very little sugar cane, the leaves of which are generally used by the South
Sea Islanders as thatch, is grown on Niaufoou. (Photograph by Kellers.)

6
76 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

The natives are true Polynesians, light reddish-brown in color, well
formed, erect in bearing, and handsome in features. The women in
early womanhood have beautiful figures, but like all native women
of the tropics, they soon lose them as they grow older. Their eyes are
dark, with an expression of gentleness. They do not like to work, their
wants are few, and little clothing is worn, although foreign clothing
adapted to the climate is being worn more and more by both the men
and the women. The men consider it undignified to appear without a
shirt or coat, and always wear them on ceremonial occasions.

The natives are expert weavers of rough baskets, taking from three
to five minutes according to size to weave a basket out of the frond
of a cocoanut palm. They are also adept in making fire by the primi-
tive method of rubbing two sticks of wood together, 30 seconds being
the time required to perform the feat.

The natives were friendly, hospitable, and curious ; they were in and
around the camp at all hours of the day or night, except when attend-
ing one of the missionary churches, where they sang interminable
hymns with much gusto, but very pleasing harmony. They were at all
times quiet, dignified, and extremely interested in all the eclipse activi-
ties, and they had offered many prayers for our success. A few of
the ‘‘ Doubting Thomases ” wagered a pig against a shirt with the son
of one of the traders that nothing would happen and that the sun
would not be darkened, so that the young lad now owns more than his
share of pork, which, next to roast dog, is their favorite food. Among
other good qualities, these natives are absolutely honest and extremely
virtuous.

Towards the end of our stay on the island they brought in presents
of many fine grass mats—Falas—and Tapa cloths. Finally on the
morning of our departure, at least half of the population of the island
including the High Chief Fotofili, his son-in-law and future successor,
and the Magistrate, with their families, were down to bid us farewell.
They all expressed genuine regret and many sincere Tofas (goodbyes )
at our departure, and were particular to inform us through the trader
interpreter how much they had enjoyed having our party honor Niua-
foou with such a noteworthy visit.

The collections which have been forwarded to the National Museum
as its share of the results of this expedition include 100 bird skins and
over 7,000 alcoholic specimens of various kinds, as well as numerous
geologic specimens, stalactites of lava, lava tree molds, and water sam-
ples from the alkaline and sulphur lakes on the island.
EXPLORATIONS, OFTHE REV. DAVID 'C.:.GRAHAM
IND SZECHUAN, CHINA

By HERBERT FRIEDMANN,
Curator, Division of Birds, U. S. National Museum

The Rev. David C. Graham has continued his missionary work in
the province of Szechuan, western China, during the past year, and
as usual has utilized his spare time in collecting for the Smithsonian
Institution. Although no outstanding trip was made during the year,
much material of value was gathered at or near Graham’s station
at Suifu, all of which supplements previous collections from that area.
During the year something over 62,000 specimens were received by
the National Museum. Dr. Graham has also made plans and already
taken care of the advance details for two trips of importance which
he hopes to be able to realize next year—one to eastern Tibet, and
the other to Tatsienlu.

Just as last year the excessive rains made the journey to Moupin
unusually arduous, so in the beginning of this year a prolonged gen-
eral drought made collecting rather disappointing for a while at Suifu,
and it was not until later in the year that rains began to fall and condi-
tions were much improved. The drought caused a general scarcity of
insects and other forms, and this scarcity considerably increased the
effort involved in making collections.

As in previous years, the hordes of bandits and robbers have been
the greatest obstacles to travel and collecting. Thus, Graham writes
in his diary on August 24, “. . . . we took a boat from Suifu to San
Kuang, crossed overland at San Kuang, and went sixty li up the San
Kuang River to Yo Keo. We could have gone farther, but there is
a place between Yo Keo and Sa Ho where robbers constantly
appeals seus) ;

That robbers are not the only source of annoyance is evidenced by
the following entry on September 4. “ When we were coming down
the high mountain towards Tsanglinshien, I noticed that there was
no one else on that road either going or coming. After reaching
this city I learned that both leopards and robbers are fierce at the
top of the high mountain between here and Tseo-Jia-Geo. Leopards
were fiercer and more common over a wide territory than they have
been known to be before, and probably hundreds are killed every year

Tidf
INSTITUTION

SMITHSONIAN

(meyety “9 ‘q Aq ydess0j04q) ‘saeqpid 410
syystidn jo sjas 914} Sey s}e1Oqe]a sow oY J ‘od A4} ysoyduirs
ay} JO QUO ST YoIe [eIIOWsW sIyy, ‘patedsoid ue poos 94}
pue ssoupoos siy Jo asneoaq AON] awieoeq 4 ‘yon] peq suriq
OyM SuoWeap Aq poz}sesuUl AT[e19Uas Vov[d eB pojIqeyur Ue poos
Ule}I90 B UdYM Jey} Surkes joyqe} [erowswm wos “oy

(Cmeyetn ‘d ‘q Aq ydeisojoyg) ‘“eulyD
‘QOUIAOIgG UBNYIIZS UI $}eOd PUL IIAII & apISeq ase[]I A—"69 “91

A

SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1930 79

Fie. 71.—Artificial hill or mound near Chengtu, Szechuan, China, said to
have been erected 700 B. C. as the burial mounds of an aborigine king and
his queen. (Photograph by D. C. Graham.)

Fic. 72.—The new modernized streets of Suifu, Szechuan, China. No auto-
mobiles or horse carriages or street cars bump into the pedestrians. (Photo-
graph by D. C. Graham.)
80 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

in the country south of Suifu, called the Lan Lut Shien District.” The
country around Tsanglinshien is described by Graham as a beautiful
district with high mountains, perpendicular limestone cliffs, and great
forests. Coal, iron, and sulphur occur plentifully and all are being
mined, although by crude methods. A phase of natural-history col-
lecting in out-of-the-way places that probably would not occur to
anyone not familiar with such work is hinted at in the following notes
jotted down by Graham on September 3 at Tseo-Jia-Geo. “ One of

Fic. 73.—A famous cliff, called by some foreigners ‘“ The Ribbon Counter,”
on the north side of the Min River, about 60 li above Suifu. (Photograph
by D. C. Graham.)

the most trying experiences to a foreigner in West China, when travel-
ling, comes from the fact that a foreigner expects and loves privacy
when sleeping, studying, and working. It is nearly impossible to get
privacy in Chinese homes (as a guest) and in Chinese inns, The
Chinese have little conception of it. You try to work in a Chinese inn,
and the first thing you know the room is packed, and crowds are peek-
ing through the cracks and looking through the windows.”

The great bulk of the collections sent in this year is made up of fine

series of insects of all orders. Among these are many species new
SI

EXPLORATIONS,

SMITHSONIAN

(1esy ueny ulA devou tweyRin ‘dg “q 4q ydessojoyd)

WOT} UOTJOIJOId puke SpOS sy} YIM AOAR} WI SOAS SIY TL
Ud}IIM SIANJALIOG 24}
punoie [aayM Siy} Suny
-d149G YSIyYppne ay} JO suortzsO
*SUOIJOAIP SNOT
uisn jyoqry, jo tsddrys10omM vy

jlloul oy} sey oy
I}JIIM 91B Son}
asojour taded ug

‘O ‘a Aq yd
Bd} Surkaiwd sooo ssaury)

Avid A[[vat you
a9keid ,, pauin}-pue

82 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

to the National Museum and others new to science. The best results
of this year’s explorations and collections are undoubtedly in the field
of entomology. Other groups, both of vertebrate and of invertebrate
animals, are also represented, as well as a number of interesting and
important ethnological objects, such as rock carvings, vases, ete.
ANGIE ND REECATIVIES OF LIVING WHALES

By REMINGTON KELLOGG
Assistant Curator, Division of Mammals, U. S. National Museum

Nearly one hundred years have elapsed since the attention of the
readers of the Transactions of the American Philosophical Society was
directed to the finding of an extinct relative of living whales in a
marl bank within the present boundaries of the State of Louisiana.
In the ensuing years numerous dissertations have been written in
regard to this animal and yet many details of its bodily construction
remained unknown. Notwithstanding the rather wide distribution of
deposits in which such fossil remains occur, there still exists a sur-
prising scarcity of material suitable for critical study of the peculiari-
ties of this animal. In connection with a general interpretation of the
geological history of the cetaceans, an effort has been made to augment
available evidence by further field work in areas that gave some prom-
ise of increasing our knowledge of these animals. Accordingly plans
were made for a visit to one of these fossil bearing deposits and
on October 2, 1929, the writer and Mr. Norman H. Boss left Wash-
ington for Alabama under the joint auspices of the Carnegie Institu-
tion of Washington and the Smithsonian Institution.

The Jackson formation of the Gulf Coastal Plain, which consists of
calcareous fossiliferous sands and clays of marine origin, outcrops in
eastern Texas in the region between Trinity and Sabine Rivers, and
also extends eastward across central Louisiana, Mississippi, and Ala-
bama. This formation extends up the Mississippi embayment to near
Forrest City in St. Francis County, Arkansas. In northern Louisiana
the Jackson formation is concealed over a large area by swamp de-
posits, but crops out in southern Caldwell Parish. It was in this
parish that Judge H. Bree in 1832 found a partial skeleton of an at
that time unknown colossal animal. Some 28 vertebrae were exposed
by the slump of a hill near the Ouachita River after long continued
rains. One of these vertebrae was sent to Dr. Richard Harlan at
Philadelphia who hastened to publish an account of the discovery. On
account of its supposed reptilian affinities, Harlan proposed to call this
animal the king of lizards, Basilosaurus. The supposed affinities of
Basilosaurus immediately aroused a world wide controversy. It was
not until January, 1839, when Dr. Harlan arrived in London, England,
with additional fossil remains which had been found on the plantation

83

.
84 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

ay Coes
nfite Uj ;

ee?

sil PF a

Itc. 76.—Fossil bones of a gigantic zeuglodont, Basilosaurus, partially
exposed in a prairie field.

Fic. 77,—A damaged head of the gigantic zeuglodont, Basilosaurus, was
found on the hardened ledge in the background.
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1930 85
of Judge J. G. Creagh in Clark County, Alabama, in 1834 that the
precise relationships of Basilosaurus were recognized. Included among
the fossil bones that Dr. Harlan brought with him were teeth which
Professor Richard Owen was permitted to section and study. On the
basis of a microscopic examination of these teeth, Professor Owen was
enabled to demonstrate conclusively the mammalian nature of the
animal. Consequently, Owen proposed to substitute for Basilosaurus
the name Zeuglodon cetoides, in allusion to the yoke-like appearance
of the cheek teeth.

The next important discovery was made on the plantation of Judge
Creagh in Clark County, Alabama, in 1842 by Mr. S. B. Buckley, who
excavated a skeleton of Basilosaurus that consisted of portions of the
head and of the fore limbs, and a vertebral column extending to a
length of 65 feet. These remains were shipped to the office of the
Geological Survey of New York at Albany where they were studied
and described by Ibenezer Emmons. The subsequent history of this
particular specimen is somewhat interesting in that some time later
it passed into the possession of the Warren Museum at Boston. In
time the Warren Museum passed out of existence and some years
past this skeleton along with other vertebrate fossils was purchased
by the American Museum of Natural History in New York City.

The interest aroused by these discoveries induced Dr. Albert Koch,
a German collector, to visit Alabama. Koch arrived at Claiborne, Ala-
bama, in January, 1845, and after a brief reconnaissance in that vicin-
ity moved his headquarters three weeks later to Clarksville. He was
not entirely successful there, although portions of a zeuglodont were
found nearby. While at Clarksville, however, Koch received the news
that remains of this animal were rather plentiful near the Old Court
House in Washington County. Arriving at the Old Court House on
March 16, 1845, Koch immediately commenced excavating a skeleton
that was found in the same neighborhood. Several wagon loads of
bones were assembled at Washington Old Court House, from which
Koch reconstructed an animal measuring 114 feet in length, but com-
posed of five or more individuals. This composite skeleton of Basilo-
saurus was exhibited for some weeks as a sea serpent in the Apollo
Rooms on Broadway in New York City.

Later on this skeleton was shipped to Germany and exhibited in the
principal cities of Europe. The King of Prussia having purchased
this skeleton for the Anatomical Museum in Berlin, Dr. Koch with
the proceeds of the sale was enabled to visit Alabama again in 1848
and to resume his search for zeuglodont remains. A second skeleton
was assembled in the vicinity of Washington Old Court House and
86 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

shipped to Dresden where the work of preparation for exhibition was
begun. This zeuglodont was exhibited for some weeks at Vienna,
Austria, and later, although the exact details are unknown, it was
sold to the Chicago Academy of Sciences where it remained until
destroyed during the Chicago fire of 1875.

These discoveries and current stories in regard to the unusual abun-
dance of remains of zeuglodonts in the Gulf states led the United
States National Museum in 1894 to consider field work 1n this region.
Accordingly Professor Charles Schuchert was detailed to investigate
these occurrences and to collect if possible a specimen for the exhib1-
tion series. On arrival at Cocoa, Choctaw County, Alabama, on
November 2, 1894, Schuchert began his search and within a short
time successfully excavated the head of one individual and twenty-
four consecutive vertebrae of another, beginning with the atlas and
ending with the third lumbar vertebra, in addition to the ribs and the
major elements of the fore limbs. This material formed the basis
for the restoration of the asilosaurus skeleton exhibited at the At-
lanta Exposition in 1895. Inasmuch as the assembled skeleton was
incomplete, Schuchert again returned to Alabama and in November,
1896, found near Fail in Choctaw County the tail portion of another
zeuglodont which consisted of thirty-five consecutive vertebrae count-
ing from the penultimate one forward, as well as the pelvis and one
vestigial thigh bone (femur). This material was prepared for exhibi-
tion in the laboratory of the United States National Museum and
for some years this mounted skeleton has been on exhibition in the
hall of fossil animals.

After a rather hasty trip through Clark County, Alabama, Mr.
30ss and [| arrived at Silas, where we began our paleontological ex-
ploration of the Jackson exposures in Choctaw and the adjoining
Washington County. Inasmuch as we were unsuccessful in our search
for well preserved specimens of zeuglodonts in this area, we departed
for Melvin, also in Choctaw County. In that vicinity and under the
guidance of Mr. Robert Land, we were shown the places where
Schuchert had excavated the major portion of the material now in
the United States National Museum.

Associated with the gigantic Basilosaurus cetoides, which attained
a length of from 50 to 70 feet and whose skull measured approxi-
mately 5 feet from extremity of snout to back of braincase, was the
little short bodied Zygorhiza kochii, which may have had a maximum
length of from 12 to 15 feet. In the vicinity of Melvin and across
the line in Clarke County, Mississippi, we were fortunate enough to
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1930 87

l"1c. 78.—Typical view of Jackson exposures in a “ washed-out ” prairie field
near Melvin, Alabama.

Fic. 79.—The head and neck of the little zeuglodont, Zygorhiza, was dug out
of indurated elevation in the foreground.
88 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

locate an exceptionally well preserved skull and both lower jaws of one
individual, and other portions of the skeleton of five additional indi-
viduals of the little zeuglodont, Zygorhiza, which was our chief objec-
tive on this trip. In many places remains of this little zeuglodont
are almost as numerous as its larger relative. Among the contem-
porary inhabitants of the same coastal seas were a large aquatic snake
and a large tortoise-like turtle. Fish vertebrae measuring two or more
inches in diameter, teeth of sharks, and the curiously ridged rod-like
beaks of an extinct sword fish (Cylindracanthus ornatus) are fre-
quently noticed in the washes. An abundance of rounded shells of
small sea-urchins (Schizaster armiger and Macropneustes mortont),
a small scallop (Pecten perplanus), a little oyster (Ostrea falco),
with a thin shell fancied to resemble a hawk, and a large nautilus
(Aturia alabamensis), the chambers of which are locally known as
‘ goat’s heads,” occur in the “ Zeuglodon ”’ horizon.

The yellowish or gray marl, in which these zeuglodonts occur, 1s
often hardened around the bones. From two to four hard ledges, a few
inches in thickness and separated by layers of this marl, are also gen-
erally present in the “ Zeuglodon”’ horizon. These ledges are quite
resistent to the effects of erosion. Bones found in such ledges are
generally difficult to extricate on account of the hardness of the matrix
and the rather soft consistency of the bones themselves.

The typical outcrop of the Jackson formation is located near Jack-
son, Mississippi, from which locality it takes its name. The exposures
of this formation in the prairie region of central Mississippi occupy
an irregular belt that ranges in width from about 6 miles near the Ala-
bama line in Clarke County to a maximum of more than 35 miles 1n
the region west of Jackson. The total thickness of the basal member,
consisting of quartz sand and glauconite, and the overlying clay mem-
ber is approximately 150 feet in eastern Clarke County. This forma-
tion increases in depth in a westerly direction and attains a thickness
of more than 600 feet in Yazoo County. Inasmuch as the “ Zeuglo-
don” horizon is relatively thin and is situated near the base of the
upper clay member, which attains a total thickness of 70 feet in
Clarke County, one usually has to locate deeply eroded prairies to be
successful in a search for this fossil-bearing horizon. Several skele-
tons of the gigantic Basilosaurus were located along the eastern border
of Clarke County, but erosion and cultivation of the land had de-
stroyed whatever value they may have originally possessed for
paleontological study. Portions of two skeletons of the diminutive
zeuglodont, Zygorhiza, were excavated in this area.
89

1930

iXPLORATIONS,

E

SMITHSONIAN

‘UMosnyy [euolye ny

iS

fa

oy} Ul

‘SIPIOJII SNANDSO

[svg

‘

JUOPO]sNsz tjuR:

=]
O

I

Sg
Oo

ol

|

+

O UuO}I] IAS P910}S9Y— "Og “OI

go SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

In central Alabama, the Jackson formation occupies the prairie
region 1n Choctaw, Clark, Monroe, and Conecuh counties, but the
exposures are often restricted to narrow belts by the overlapping of
more recent formations. Although most of the territory, which was
settled by the early pioneers, was at that time covered with coniferous
and deciduous woods, there were small treeless tracts here and there
which were called “ prairies.’ These open spaces were the first to be
farmed and upon them flourished fields of cotton, which were culti-
vated with the assistance of slaves. In time the natural fertility of
the soil was greatly depleted and many of these prairie fields were
allowed to revert to their natural condition. Others became impos-
sible to cultivate because in plowing the furrows were thrown in such
a way that the fields were subjected to severe erosion during long con-
tinued rains. [ach drainage path in time became a deep gully and
ultimately the field was so cut up that further cultivation was 1mpos-
sible. For years the destructive action of erosion has been allowed to
continue without any serious effort being made to check its ravages
until now many of these fields are criss-crossed in every direction by
deep gullies. In some places the * Zeuglodon ”’ horizon was so close
to the surface that the skeletons were thrown out by the plow. These
bones were gathered up by the negroes and dumped along the edges
of the fields where occasionally they may now be found partially
buried in the accumulated debris. Some twenty occurrences of remains
of the gigantic zeuglodont that had been destroyed either by the plow
or by erosion and weathering were observed in Choctaw County dur-
ing the period of our visit. It is in these so-called ‘* washed-out ”
prairie fields that one finds today numerous exposures of the “ Zeu-
glodon ” horizon. In such fields were found a number of more or less
complete skeletons of the small zeuglodont, Zygorhiza, and various
portions of the skeleton of the gigantic Basilosaurus. In one instance
various fragments of a skeleton of Zygorhiza were found scattered
along an abandoned logging road. This skeleton has been exposed by
the iron-rimmed wheels of lumber trucks and subsequently destroyed
by the same agency. At another place a skeleton of another individual
lay in a cow-path where it had been trampled on for many years
by the feet of innumerable cattle.
POUR TER EXPLORATIONS FOR MOLLUSKS IN
(ele, MVS ONDINE

By PAU BART SGEH:
Curator, Division of Mollusks, U. S. National Museum

The granting of the Walter Rathbone Bacon Travelling Scholarship
to me for the third year made it possible to explore some of the West
Indian territory much in need of investigation. Two years ago this
same scholarship made it possible to subject all the provinces of
Cuba, except Oriente, to a close scrutiny for land mollusks. The three
and one-half months spent in this island, which supports a greater
land shell fauna than any other equivalent area in the world, yielded
an enormous amount of material. The same grant made it possible
to spend the summer of last year in an exploration of Porto Rico
and the Lesser Antilles lying between this and the island of Trini-
dad, as well as the islands of Margarita, Orchilla and the Dutch West
Indies lying off the coast of Venezuela. This year our efforts were
focused on the southern Bahamas, the islands off the south coast of
Cuba, and the Caymans.

After a futile attempt to obtain a suitable vessel in northern waters
to take the expedition to the Bahamas, contracts were finally closed in
Mianu, Florida, for the use of the Jsland Home, a boat that seemed
to meet our needs. The reason for again securing a vessel for this
cruise was the fact that commercial transportation in the area to be
visited was non-existent, for most of the territory to be explored con-
sists of islands rarely visited by man. For this reason also, it became
necessary to provide food for the trip at the outset. The large territory
to be covered—some 2500 miles—made it desirable to secure sufficient
assistants to reduce to a minimum the time spent upon each of the
many islands visited. For this reason I tendered an invitation to Mr.
Harold Chittick, one of my students at the George Washington Uni-
versity, and to two Washington Boy Scouts, Ray Greenfield, who ac-
companied me to Cuba two years ago, and Alva G. Nye, Jr.; also to
Mr. Harold S. Peters of the Bureau of Entomology of the United
States Department of Agriculture. To this staff were added the Cap-
tain of the [sland Home, E. Roberts, and the engineer, B. E. Lowe.

The Island Home was a 33-ton vessel, flat bottomed. 59 feet in
length, with a 21 foot beam, and a draft of 44 feet, and provided with

7h OI
Q2 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Fic. 81.—Loading fuel oil on the Jsland Home at the Naval Station,
Key West, Florida.

Fic. 82.—My scientific associates: right, Peters; next, Greenfield, Chittick,
and Nye.
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1930 93

a 60 H. P. engine. Leaving Miami June 9, we reached Key West after
a two-day interval in which engine trouble developed, which, combined
with fueling, delayed our sailing for the Bahamas until June 16. Here
should be mentioned the kind assistance rendered our expedition by the
United States Navy Department. Not only were we permitted to
draw fuel and other supplies needed, but the engine shop made the
necessary repairs to our engine and rendered every possible assistance
to have us adequately equipped for the cruise.

Leaving Key West June 16, we headed for the Cay Sal Bank, an
irregular, pear-shaped submarine flat, a little more than 60 miles in
length in a southeasterly and northwesterly direction. This bank is
covered by a shallow sea, ranging from 34 to 15 fathoms, and fringed
by a chain of cays on all but the southern side. The bank, while only
some 20 miles from the central portion of the north coast of Cuba, is,
nevertheless, separated from that island by very deep water—the
Nicholas Channel—ranging from 212 to 534 fathoms. This great
depth does not bespeak land connections with Cuba. From Florida it
is separated by some 50 miles of equally deep water, and since the
whole bank slopes abruptly on all sides to great depth, the land mol-
luscan fauna was looked for with considerable interest.

Each of the cays, beginning with Cay Sal on the southwestern edge
of the bank and ending with Anguilla Cay, was explored, and the many
interesting things thus obtained are now resting in the Museum, await-
ing analysis. How little visited some of these cays are may be in-
ferred from the fact that on one of the Damas Cays we found an ele-
vated stake and curled about its base the white bleached bones of a
man who had evidently been shipwrecked here and perished.

On June 24 we left the Cay Sal Bank and crossed the deep Santaren
Channel to the Great Bahama Bank. The 25th and half of the 26th
were spent sailing some 180 miles over an almost calm shallow sea,
out of sight of land but with the glaringly white calcareous sand of
the bottom constantly in view. Like the northern Bahama Bank, this
reach appears almost devoid of life

at least visible life. We came
to anchor at about 11 a. m. in the snug little harbor formed by islets,
collectively known as Jamaica Cays.

From this date until the evening of July 3 we explored the cays
which stretch in an open looped chain southeastward to Great Ragged
Island. These islands, which mark the western limit of another deep,
are all composed of elevated reef rock less than 100 feet in height,
and vary in size from mere rock points to miles in extent. They are
94 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

very rugged and may be barren or covered in spots with a growth of
Sesuvium or Portulaca or a dense, almost impenetrable, thicket of
Platopuntia or other cacti.

Some of the larger cays, on the other hand, bear tangles of brush,
or even what might be called trees, all of the vegetation, however,
being of the drought-resistant type, save here and there where tangles
of mangrove jut into shallow bays. On these cays the most conspicu-
ous elements were the land mollusks of the genus Cerion, of which we
gathered thousands, though these were by no means the only land mol-
lusks of the region as evidenced by the collection now resting in the
National Museum.

Early on July 4 we left our anchorage in the Great Ragged Island
harbor and headed for Cay Verde. All along our course we had met
with many breeding colonies of sea birds, but Cay Verde is the only
cay boasting a breeding colony of Man-o’-War birds in the Bahamas.
Dull skies, squalls and heavy seas constantly breaking over our decks,
somewhat modified our looked-for celebration of the day. Our ship
soon had the putty, which had been used to close the seams of the ves-
sel in place of oakum, pounded out by the waves, and a call to man the
pump was in order. To make a short story of the longest day of our
cruise, I will say, simply, that the ship slipped entirely off the Colum-
bus Bank upon which Cay Verde is located, and we failed to sight
Cay Verde, but were greeted about 2 o’clock the next morning by
the welcome faint flashes of Castle Island lighthouse.

The next two days were spent in an attempt to repair our ship, which
was only in part successful, since we were unable to careen her on
account of her flat bottom. From this time until August II we were
forced to pump one hour out of every three, day and night, to keep the
ship habitable, and even then the leaky decks soaked most of our
belongings stored below.

July 5 to 15 we spent exploring the Crooked Island group, a tri-
angular bank about 45 miles in a north and south direction, and 35
miles east and west. This bank consists of Castle, Aklin, Crooked,
Fortune Islands, and the Fish Cays. Here again the sea drops imme-
diately off shore to a great depth, in places to almost 3,000 fathoms.

The group is isolated from all the adjacent groups of islands by
more than 1,000 fathoms. Some of its hills attain an elevation of 200
feet and habitats for our mollusks vary from bleak and barren sand
spits to mangrove tangles, and from dense grass flats and brush land
to small timber, as well as cultivated fields. The days spent here
again proved worth while and very profitable.
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, IQ30 9

Fic. 83.—Three stages in the development of Audubon’s Shearwater
(Puffinus 'herminieri) from the Cay Sal group, Bahamas.
096 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

July 16 we sailed for the Plana Islands from Jamaica Bay, Aklin
Island, reaching our destination late in the afternoon. The evening
of this day and the next day were spent collecting on the westernmost
of the two cays. July 18 we attempted a landing on the eastern cay,
being particularly anxious to do so because this cay appears to be the
only one in all the Bahamas upon which Hutias, the large West Indian
rodents are present, and we had been asked especially to secure a series
of these for the National Museum. High seas and a very effective bar-
rier reef frustrated all our attempts at landing, and as there are no
residents on the Plana Islands who might have guided us through
some narrow passage in the reef, we were compelled, very reluctantly,
to forego an exploration of this island. The Plana Islands are also
bounded by deep water.

We next headed for Mariguana Island, a large cay some 25 miles
in length and 8 in its largest diameter, with a shallow flat at the eastern
extremity. This cay rises to an elevation of 80 feet at Abraham’s Hill,
and presents all the varied habitats listed for the Crooked Island group.
Here again we have deep sea on all sides immediately off shore.
Mariguana and Booby Cay on its southern flat yielded many interest-
ing mollusks, as well as a fine collection of birds, bats, and reptiles.

At the crack of dawn July 22 we headed for the Caicos Bank, cross-
ing the long stretch of the Caicos Island passage with some apprehen-
sion, but we reached Malcolm Bay without mishap. From then until
July 30 we explored the various cays bordering the Caicos Bank on
the north and east side between Blue Hills and Cockburn Harbor. The
Caicos Bank, like the other banks examined, rises abruptly from the
sea, practically forming an atoll. It is some 72 miles in a southeast
by northwestern direction, and about 58 miles in its widest east to
west diameter. Its highest hill is said to be 280 feet. The same diver-
sity of habitat mentioned for previous groups exists here, but in addi-
tion, at least one cay—Pine Cay—of the Fort George group, west of
North Caicos, boasts a fine stand of pine. The group as a whole yielded
a fine series of mollusks, as well as many other things.

July 30 we crossed the deep narrow channel known as Turk’s Island
passage, and from then until August 2 devoted our time to an explo-
ration of the cays situated upon the Turk’s Island Bank. The Turk’s
Island Bank is the easternmost bank of the Bahamas that has habitable
land projecting above the sea. Most of its cays proved rich in mol-
lusks. On the afternoon of the second of August we re-crossed the
Turk’s Island passage and explored the small cays at the southern
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1930 Q7

Fic. 84.—The José Enrique in Cuban waters.

Fic. 85.—The stern of the José Enrique: central figure
Captain Andre de Leon and the rest his crew.
98 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

end of the southeast Caicos group. We then crossed the Caicos Bank
and devoted August 3 and 4 to an exploration of the cays off the
south coast of Providentiales and of West Caicos, all of which yielded
rich collections. August 5 we crossed the deep channel between west
Caicos and Little Inagua, and the remainder of this day and part of
the next were spent in a search for the mollusks which it harbors.

On the afternoon of August 6 we headed for Great Inagua Island,
which is by far the largest of the southern Bahamas. It has a length
of almost 45 miles in a southwest by a northwesterly direction, and a
north by south width of about 18 miles in its largest diameter. In
reality it is another atoll which has emerged from the sea. Its high-
est hill is said to be 132 feet. Its shores slope precipitously into the
great depths of the sea on all sides. This island, as its wonderful
molluscan fauna indicates, in reality represents a host of cays fused
by elevation. We explored not only the ocean rim in our boat, but
also the interior of the island, in a Ford truck. Inagua proved by far
the richest of all the Bahamas in diversity of molluscan fauna.

The barometer indicating fine weather, we put to sea at 4 p. m. on
August 10 from Matthewstown for our naval station at Guantanamo,
southeastern Cuba, a distance of some 120 miles. We selected a night
run for its calmer sea. Favorable winds enabled us to sight the Cape
Macy light in eastern Cuba a little after 10 o’clock, and we rounded
the Cape at 2:30 in the morning of the 11th of August, reaching
Guantanamo about 1:30 in the afternoon.

The Naval authorities, at my request, examined the [sland Home
and pronounced her unseaworthy and recommended her abandon-
ment until suitable repairs could be made. Since it was impossible to
obtain the necessary repairs for some weeks at the Station, other ves-
sels being on the ways, I informed the owners in Miami of the fact
and set about finding another suitable vessel in Cuban waters.

The José Enrique, a 35-ton sailing bark, equipped with a 22 H. P.
gasoline motor, carrying a complement of five men, was finally chart-
ered at Santiago, Cuba, and after fueling at the Naval base we set sail
for Santiago. On August 28 we again set sail westward, stopping at
convenient intervals along the south coast of Cuba and exploring the
many low keys in the embayment between Cabo Cruz and Bretton
Cay, the westernmost of that labyrinth of keys in that part of Cuba,
which we reached September 10. While these keys did not yield an
enormous catch, many of them proving entirely barren of land mol-
lusks, the specimens obtained nevertheless furnished information very
desirable to our studies.
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1930 99

Fic. 86.—Three views showing abundance of Cerion landshells on the island
of Great Inagua.
TOO SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

On September 10 we headed southward for the Cayman Islands,
a group of three peaks whose molluscan fauna proclaims them a con-
tinuation of the Sierra Maestra range of southeastern Cuba, from
which they are separated by about 115 miles. About noon the follow-
ing day we reached Cayman Brac, which looks like a block of honey-
comb limestone elevated out of the sea to a height of about 130 feet.
It is 10} miles long and about 14 broad. The top of the block is rough
and covered with brush, and its sides are almost perpendicular. A
coastal plain strip on the north and west furnishes arable land and
good roads. We engaged an automobile and soon covered all parts
sufficiently to get a representative collection of its molluscan and other
faunas by the end of the next day.

On the evening of September 11 we sailed for Little Cayman some
4 miles west of Cayman Brac. Engine trouble caught us at sea after
dark. Approaching the northeastern end of Little Cayman we almost
came to grief on a fringing reef. The coolheadedness and good
seamanship of our captain, however, saved the day. Little Cayman,
to which we devoted September 11 to 13, is about 9 miles long and
1 mile wide. Its highest peak is said to be about 100 feet. As a whole,
it appears much lower than Cayman Brac and has less tillable land
than that island and only a very scant population. Most of the island
is covered with brush and timber. We found it splendid collecting
ground for mollusks and other things, and made a large catch.

On September 13, we left our anchorage in Blossom Village harbor
and proceeded west toward Grand Cayman, which is about 60 miles
distant. This is the largest of the three Caymans, having a length of
about 20 miles and a breadth of about 8 miles. Its highest point is
said to be only about 50 feet. Much of the island consists of sand
dunes. North Sound, a great bay on the northwestern end, is man-
erove-fringed.

At Georgetown, the capital of Grand Cayman, we were met by one
of my former students, Dr. Overton, the Chief Medical Officer of
the Cayman Island, and thanks to his assistance and the kind helpful-
ness of the Commissioner, we were enabled to explore the island
thoroughly and to secure a large amount of material in the short time
allotted to us. September 18, at 4a. m., we set sail for the Cuban coast,
and reached the shores of Sandy Cay at about 9 a. m., on the roth, after
sailing 145 miles. From this time until September 24 we cruised
along and collected on the keys between Cayo Largo and the Isle
of (Pines.
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1930 IOT

At dusk on the 24th we tied up against the dock of the Customs
House at Nueva Gerona, Isle of Pines, where we were graciously
and helpfully received by the Government officials. By the use of an
automobile we were able to visit all the desirable parts of the island,
securing a magnificent catch of much needed material.

On September 27 we headed for our final port, Batabano, which we
reached on the morning of the 29th with all things packed ready for
transmission to Havana. The Port officials here, as elsewhere, had
been apprised of our coming, which made it possible to have all things
aboard a freight car within two hours after docking. A motor bus
carried our party to Havana where we were met by Cuba’s grand old
naturalist, Dr. Carlos de la Torre, who helped me with all my needs
and gave to the rest of my staff a real glimpse of Havana.

All things settled, we left Havana September 1 with 4 young, live
tortoise-shell turtles purchased at Cayman Brac, 2 huge live iguanas
captured on Cayo Rosario, and 120 huge hermit crabs caught on one
of the Doce Leguas Cays as our chief baggage. These live animals
were intended for the Zoological Park at Washington. In this connec-
tion it might also be mentioned that I shipped by parcel-post from
Guantanamo to the same institution 22 live iguanas which we had
caught on various cays in the Bahamas. All of these animals arrived
in good condition. Our main collection was shipped by freight, in
part from Fortune Island, in part from: Guantanamo, and the rest
from Cuba. We returned to Washington on October 3.

This cruise has yielded a larger amount of molluscan material than
any other in which I have had a part, excepting the U. S. Bureau
of Fisheries expedition in the Philippines in 1907-1910. We obtained
some 250,000 specimens of mollusks, and in addition 925 bird skins
and 596 reptiles and batrachians ; likewise some mammals, fish, insects,
and marine invertebrates.

Great credit for the securing of these splendid collections is due to
my energetic associates mentioned at the beginning of this article. The
Cuban crew of the José Enrique also deserves special mention, from
the captain to the cabin boy. Foremost of all, however, thanks are
due to our Department of State for having secured not only free
entry to all foreign ports for our expedition, but also that good will
and helpfulness on the part of all officials in the places visited that
makes an expedition of this kind a real joy. It would take more space
than all these notes to adequately express thanks for all the favors
102 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

received. To the officers of our Navy at Key West and Guantanamo
great credit is due not only for the assistance rendered in equipping
both vessels, but the kindly way in which hospitalities were extended
to us, which will always leave a pleasant memory of the occasion,
RAVING HOR, CRUSTACEANS Ad PORTUGAS,
FLORIDA

By WALDO Ly SCHMITT,

Curator of Marine Invertebrates, U. S. National Museum

The richness of the crustacean fauna at Tortugas, Florida, and its
importance in relation to the food habits and movements of certain
fishes, led me to continue investigations at the Carnegie Marine Bio-
logical Station from July 9 to August 8, 1930, through the kindness of
the Carnegie Institution of Washington. It is planned as a point of
departure for further studies on the crustacea to complete a survey
of their kinds and distribution. Judging from the results already
obtained, it is anticipated that at least 200 species will be found to occur
at Tortugas and vicinity.

This year was the first in which a preliminary investigation of the
deeper waters readily accessible to the laboratory was undertaken. In
the course of some 20 hauls made with the 30-foot otter trawl, two
hauls between 180 and 237 fathoms brought to light 16 species of
“deep sea’’ crustacea. Most noteworthy among these were eight
specimens of that giant among isopods, Bathynomus, and a new
Portunid crab of the genus Benthocascon, heretofore known only from
a single specimen taken between 185 and 440 fathoms in the Andaman
Sea.

Three specimens of Bathynomus were obtained from the first haul
in 180 to 220 fathoms, and five specimens in the second haul in 220
to 237 fathoms. The largest specimen measures 10$ inches long by 44
inches broad. In length it is only an eighth of an inch shorter than the
record specimen taken at a depth between 225 and 594 fathoms off
the northeast coast of Ceylon. The species is comparatively rare in col-
lections. Between 1890 and 1906 nine specimens were taken by the
Royal Indian Marine Survey Ship /nvestigator in Indian Seas in the
course of six hauls in from 195 to 740 fathoms, while seventeen speci-
mens have been secured by various American vessels. The first speci-
men known to science was taken by the Blake in 1878 from 955
fathoms in the Caribbean Sea; two specimens were secured by the
Albatross in 1885 and 1888 in the Gulf of Mexico and the Bahamas
in 730 and 1,186 fathoms respectively; six specimens were taken by
the Bingham Oceanographic Expedition of 1925 off the coast of Brit-
ish Honduras north of Glover Reef in 366 fathoms and, finally, the

103
TO4 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Fic. 87—The yacht Anton Dohrn of the Carnegie Institution.
(Photograph by Schmitt.)

Fic. 88.—Cocoanut palms shading the entrance to the main laboratory
building. (Photograph by J. W. Manter.)
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1930 105

Fic. 89.—A glimpse of Bird Key, Dry Tortugas, Florida, showing the vast
numbers of noddy and sooty terns, an estimated total of 75,000 to 80,000
birds. Due to the shifting of the coral sand forming the key, the house which

was located approximately at the center of the island is all but submerged.
(Photograph by Schmitt.)

Fic. 90.—A few of the Greek spongers at Tarpon Springs.
(Photograph by Schmitt.)
106 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

eight specimens recorded above were taken by the Yacht Anton Dohrn
of the Carnegie Institution on July 31, 1930.

Many species of corals flourish in these semitropical waters, and as
a result dredging is carried on with considerable hazard to one’s gear,
nets on occasion becoming hopelessly torn or caught on the huge coral
heads. On one occasion our steel cable parted in ten fathoms of water,
and the only large net seemed irrevocably lost. The swift run of
tidal currents so stirs up the sediment in these otherwise unusually
clear waters that the bottom can be seen only with difficulty. The buoy
which marked the net was carried away in rough weather a day or
two after its loss, but a week later, just at slack water when the sedi-
ment disturbance was practically at a standstill, Captain Mills of the
Laboratory’s yacht with rare good fortune saw the mud-covered
meshes of the net on the bottom with the aid of a water glass. It was
caught by several grapnels but could not be raised, and Captain Mills
with the aid of only a metal diving hood descended in the 60 feet of
water to affix a line to a strategic point of the net. He found that the
net had at the time of towing brought up under a coral head not less
than 12 feet high and thick and solid in proportion. Even a steel cable
had to give way before such a mass of coral. It was with this net,
after its recovery, that the most notable of the dredge hauls ever made
by the Anton Dohrn were accomplished.

I returned to Washington by way of Tampa and Tarpon Springs
for the purpose of visiting this headquarters of the Gulf sponge fish-
ery. It is conducted almost entirely by Greek spongers, who, with
their families, form a considerable percentage of the population of
Tarpon Springs. On the way to Tortugas, I called upon Mr. Robert
Ranson of St. Augustine, Florida, and upon Will Wallis at Braden-
ton, both of whom have contributed a number of interesting speci-
mens to the invertebrate collections of the Museum from time to time.
Iam very grateful to them for the many courtesies shown me in their
respective cities, and to the Carnegie Institution for the opportunity
afforded for studying the Decapod Crustacea of the Tortugas region.
COVER CHING REIS IN THE WESt

By J. M. ALDRICH,
Associate Curator, Division of Insects, U. S. National Museum

Continuing work which has now extended over a period of 40 years,
I spent part of June and July, 1930, in making collections of flies in
Idaho, Washington, California, and Colorado.

The vicinity of Lewiston, Idaho, offers a great variety of climate,
the city being situated in a deep valley only about 800 feet in altitude
while nearby are foothills and mountains rising to about 5,000 feet.
The low altitude has a warm climate, with sage-brush and other plants
characteristic of the plains region, as well as some which occur much
farther south. The higher altitudes are cooler, with more rainfall, and
above 3,000 feet are generally forested. Thus there is a wide range of
plant life, and a correspondingly great diversity in the insect inhabi-
tants. Having lived for 20 years at Moscow, Idaho, altitude 2,700 feet,
I have collected extensively over the region; but there were many flies
that I had found only once in the whole time, and undoubtedly others
yet undiscovered. In the recent visit I endeavored to collect in as
many places as possible in the time at my disposal, with especial
attention to those which previous experience had shown to be richest
in flies.

Across the Snake River west of Lewiston Hes the city of Clarkston,
Washington, at the same altitude. In this warm climate the collecting
is better early in the season, and only the late species were obtainable
in June. I visited the canyon of Asotin Creek, above the town of
Asotin, Washington, on several days, with fair results. Two visits
were made to Lake Waha, a small mountain lake 25 miles south of
Lewiston at 3,500 feet elevation, among coniferous forests, where
many interesting species of flies were found; this is one of the best
places in the region in June. Lapwai Creek ten miles south of Lapwai,
Idaho, at an elevation of about 1,500 feet, yielded some valuable infor-
mation about the distribution of species and also about their habits.
Juliaetta, Idaho, elevation 1,200 feet, in a deep, rocky valley with tim-
ber on the precipitous sides, was not so good as on some former visits,
the best time for collecting having passed. About 12 miles northeast
of Moscow, Idaho, is a small mountain range called Thatuna Hills on
government maps, in which the main peak is called Cedar Mountain,
but is locally known as Moscow Mountain. This is about 4,900 feet in

8 107
108 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Fic. 91—Moscow Mountain and adjacent range, back of Moscow, Idaho.
A celebrated “type” locality for flies.

Fic. 92—Collecting the fly with mandibles, Smith River, California.
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, I930 109

altitude, and a splendid place for collecting in June. I visited the
summit twice. It is becoming well known to students of the flies from
the considerable number of new species which have been described
from specimens captured there. Entomologists stationed at the Uni-
versity of Idaho (in Moscow) and those at the Washington State
College (in Pullman, Washington, only ten miles west of Moscow)
have done a great deal of collecting on Moscow Mountain, which
is the “type locality’ of the new species just mentioned. Some 20
years ago I collected a new species of flesh fly at the summit, described
afterward as Sarcophaga thatuna; curiously enough it has never been
found anywhere except at the extreme summit of this mountain, and
was common there on both my visits this year.

The vicinity of Spokane, Washington, is also a diversified, semi-
forested region lower in altitude than Moscow, but with many fine
streams and lakes, which improve the collecting, as flies are generally
fond of moist places. I collected at several places along streams in
the outskirts of Spokane, and twice ascended Mount Spokane, the
summit of which reaches an altitude of 5,808 feet. Little or no collect-
ing of flies has been done on this mountain hitherto. The species are
mostly the same as found on Mount Moscow, but there is a much
larger alpine area. There is a fine road to the summit, and I should
have spent more time there but for the fact that the mountain is 35
miles from Spokane. Moreover, I found the summit to be decidedly
colder than that of Moscow Mountain, so that bright sunshine was
necessary to make collecting of flies successful, as these insects are
very sensitive to cold and disappear when the sun clouds over, even on
warm afternoons. The total time that I was able to collect near the
summit was much reduced by cloudy intervals during the two days
I was there. There are a number of kinds of large, showy flies here,
which are very characteristic of alpine situations in western North
America, the same ones with some exceptions being found on many
different mountains over a wide area. It is always thrilling to the
entomologist to attain the altitude where they occur, even though
many of them are well represented in collections and are therefore not
especially desirable to collect.

Leaving the region in which many years of collecting had made me
rather familiar with the species, I devoted a week to collecting in the
vicinity of the town of Smith River, California, situated on the shore
of the Pacific Ocean at the mouth of the Smith River, about six miles
south of the Oregon state line. Being at sea level this locality might
be thought to compare with Lewiston, Idaho, in its insect population ;
but this is not at all the case, as the narrow coastal strip is notably cool
11K) SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Fic. 93.—Sea beach near Smith River, California.

Fic. 94—Redwood Highway near Smith River, California.
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1930 IU4

in its summer climate, so that the vegetation and insect life are very
unlike those of the interior. They are in fact largely a continuation
southward of a flora and fauna which extend in some of its members
all the way to Alaska. A few species of flies of more southern coastal
distribution also come up this far. The forms characteristic of the
seashore, living in the larval stage on seaweeds, coastal species of
plants, or on other coastal species of animals, are by far the most
important and interesting of the flies which I collected here.

On seaweed-covered rocks washed by the ocean waves, I found the
two known species of the singular genus Paraclunio. It belongs to the
midge family, but is robust and strong. Its leathery wings are unaf-
fected by sea-water; coming out of the receding wave it runs with
fluttering wings over the wet rock until submerged again. One of the
species has a range extending to Alaska, the other one being more
local along the Oregon and California shores. The larvae live in the
seaweeds on the rocks, but I could not find any present at the time of
my visit.

Another remarkable fly that I found is Melanderia mandibulata,
previously known only from the Washington Coast immediately north
of the mouth of the Columbia River. In this fly, the mouth is de-
veloped into a pair of pincers for holding its prey—a_ structure
unknown in other Diptera, as the real mandibles or pincers, such as
occur in lower orders of insects, are reduced in other flies to small
blades or needles, or more often to rudiments hardly recognizable. In
Melanderia the organs are derived by modification of other mouth-
parts, and only imitate true mandibles. Professor Melander, for many
years connected with the Washington State College, is the only col-
lector who had previously found this species. One of his specimens
which I took to Europe last year and showed to many entomologists,
excited the liveliest interest there. I found this species on the wet
rocks above the ocean, where it finds its prey among the soft-bodied
organisms occurring there. By spending much time for several days
I obtained a large enough supply to enable me to present the species
as a gift from the National Museum to several of the principal
museums of the Old World, as well as those in North America; one
went to Australia. This species was the principal find of my trip.

Returning through Colorado, I stopped as I have done several times
at Tennessee Pass, on the divide of the Rocky Mountains at 10,290
feet altitude. Being on one of the main railroad lines, this is a very
convenient stopping-place. There is no hotel, but as before I was
indebted to Mr. L. E. Maupin, a pioneer who arrived at the Pass in

LIZ SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

1879, for accommodations and pleasant intercourse. The evenings by
his fireside were, as in previous years, a memorable part of my trip.
The coldness of the nights makes a fire always necessary; there was a
heavy frost on one of the nights. The climate in midsummer com-
pares with that of the far north, and the insects also are very similar

Fic. 95.—Collecting place at Tennessee Pass, Colorado. Cabin of L. E. Maupin.

to those occurring at lower levels near the Arctic Circle. My visit
was at an earlier date in the summer than my former ones; conse-
quently I was able to get some species not before collected here.

While the total number of flies collected on my trip was not impres-
sive as such things go—about two thousand—the collection included
a larger number of interesting kinds than I have ever obtained before
in the United States in a single season.

Pp bOnANiCM Visit tO SOUTH AND HAST ABRICA:

Bye JN, Sy JaUM Clay COXON
Custodian, Section of Grasses, U. S. National Museum

In June, 1929, I started for London on my way to South Africa to
attend the meeting of the British Association for the Advancement
of Science. The sessions were held partly in Capetown (July 22-27)
and partly at Johannesburg (July 30-August 5). Leaving London
on the Llandovery Castle the latter part of June we arrived in Cape-
town July 19. The passengers included 160 scientists bound for the
meetings, and other boats brought their quota. We stopped a few
hours each at Teneriffe, Ascension, and St. Helena but did not land at
Ascension. Certainly good old St. Helena never saw such a swarming
of scientists over her hills and valleys as took place on that day.

Every effort was made by those in charge of arrangements in South
Africa to make the visitors comfortable. Excursions permitted an
examination of the local flora. Though it was winter many plants were
in bloom. A two-day excursion on a special train through the Karoo
allowed botanists to examine the curious xerophytic flora of this arid
region. A stop was made at Kimberley to inspect the diamond mines.
There the members saw the method of mining, the separating of the
diamonds from the pebbles and gravel by means of “ grease tables,”
and great piles of the diamonds themselves worth hundreds of thou-
sands of dollars.

After the conclusion of the meetings I joined an excursion to Vic-
toria Falls and other points in Southern Rhodesia. We lived on a
special train for 12 days, visiting points of interest to botanists, zoolo-
gists, geologists, and archeologists. At Bulawayo motor cars took our
party to a cave to inspect Bushmen drawings and to Motopos Hills
to see the grave of Cecil Rhodes, for whom Rhodesia was named. On
a high round-topped hill overlooking the country for many miles
around lies the grave surrounded by huge boulders.

The Victoria Falls of the Zambesi River are one of the wonders
of the world. The river flows through a great lava bed and the surface
of the surrounding country is the same above and below the falls. The

* Although this trip took place in 1929 the author returned to America so
late in the year that his article could not be included in Explorations and
Field-Work of the Smithsonian Institution in 1929.—Eprror.

113
It4 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Fic. 96.—Longwood, the house in which Napoleon lived during his exile on
St. Helena (1816-1821).

Fic. 97.—Victoria Falls on the Zambesi River. A small section near one
side. It is very difficult to obtain a picture of the magnificent falls because
of the contour and the spray.
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, I9Q30 II5

Fic. 98.—Zimbabwe Ruins, Southern Rhodesia. The ruins are in part well
preserved and indicate that an earlier race extracted gold here.

Fic. 99.—Kilimanjaro, the highest mountain in Africa. The Kibo peak
(19,710 ft.) as seen from about 14,000 feet.
116 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

falls are 420 feet high and about a mile and a quarter wide, thus ex-
ceeding Niagara Falls by a considerable margin. But the view of
Niagara is much more impressive because the whole of the falls may
be seen at once and the volume of water is little obscured by spray.
The Victoria Falls can be seen in their entirety only from the air and,
especially at high water, the view is almost obliterated by the spray.

One other point of particular interest in the province, especially to
the archeologists, was the Zimbabwe Ruins, about 12 miles south of
Fort Victoria, the nearest railroad station. The ruins are in part well
preserved and indicate that an earlier race extracted gold here and
used the stone structures for defense.

The excursion ended at Beira in Portuguese East Africa, where
the party embarked for home. It was interesting to note that four
important food plants in South Africa came originally from America,
maize (called mealies in Africa), white potatoes, sweet potatoes, and
cassava. The last is a Brazilian plant whose fleshy starchy roots yield
the tapioca of our markets.

Some of the party went directly to London; others left the boat
at Mombasa and spent two weeks at Nairobi. In company with
Mr. Cotton, Keeper of the Herbarium at Kew, and a few others
I disembarked at Tanga in northern Tanganyika. On the way from
Beira we stopped a few hours at Dar-es-Salaam and Zanzibar.

Mr. Cotton and I first went to Amani where is located the Amani
Agricultural Institute. This was previously a scientific station in Ger-
man East Africa. There are here good laboratories and a herbarium.
We next went by rail to Moshi for the ascent of Mount Kilimanjaro
but found that the most favorable starting point was Marangu, a
village 10 miles to the northeast. From Marangu we had an easy
climb on mule back by a good trail, taking a cook and four porters.
The first night was spent at Bismark Hut, a resthouse near the upper
limit of the forest at about 8,000 feet. The second and third nights
were spent at Peters Hut, a resthouse in the alpine region at about
12,000 feet. On the third day I ascended to the limit of vegetation
at about 14,000 feet where there was a good view of Kibo, the western
rounded snow-capped peak of Kilimanjaro (17,910 feet). The alpine
grasses belong to such temperate genera as Festuca, Poa, Trisetum,
and Deschampsia. On the fourth day we descended to Marangu.

Our next stop was Nairobi which we reached by rail from Taveta
via Voi. Nairobi, the capital of Kenya, lies on a grassy plateau at an
altitude of 5,500 feet, inland from Mombasa 330 miles. This is the
point from which parties start on the big game hunts to the surround-
ing territory.
Ly,

SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1930

"]]e} JooF SI noe st
yurjd ayy, ‘Joay OOL*EI ynoqe ye FY ssdjoqg aaoqe osefuew
IJ UO (110}}09 O1JAUaG) OIDIUAS $U0}JOJ— IOI “DIY

‘punoisyoeq oy} Ul SI JNY sAeU WY “(Sol[RawW 10 93zIeUr)
Pjey UO. dAIZeU po ue UT st juRd oY y ‘OrefUeUTy
snjoeo Y—OOI ‘SI

Jeu Tysoyy ye 991} viqioydns oxi]

118 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Vic. 103.—Giant senecio (Senecio johnstonii) near Peters Hut on Kiliman-
jaro at about 11,400 feet. Mr. Cotton is seen standing in the tall grass.
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1930 119

A two-day trip by motor car was made to the vicinity of Mount
Kenya (17,000 ft.), but there was not time for the ascent. Through
the courtesy of Government officials a trip through Uganda was ar-
ranged. The route was by rail to Kisumu, by steamer across Lake
Victoria (26,828 sq. mi.; altitude 3,700 ft.) to Entebbe, the adminis-
trative center for Uganda, by motor car to Kampala, the center of
agricultural and botanical research, by motor car to Jinja, the term1-
nus of the Uganda railroad, by rail back to Nairobi, with one-day
stops at Eldoret, Nakuru, and Naivasha in Kenya.

On September 28 I sailed from Mombasa for London via the Red
Sea. Although I left the boat at Marseilles, crossed France and made
close connections with a fast Atlantic liner, it took nearly a month to
reach New York.

The collecting (grasses only) in the Union of South Africa was
meager because I was there in the winter season (112 numbers col-
lected here). Through Southern Rhodesia the collecting was re-
stricted because it was the dry season, though at Victoria Falls the
spray from the falls gave moisture in the immediate vicinity (204
numbers in Southern Rhodesia, including 87 numbers at Victoria
Falls). At Beira on the coast the collecting was better (56 numbers).
The stops at Dar-es-Salaam and Zanzibar were short, but by going
immediately beyond the limits of the town one and one-half hours
were utilized for collecting at each place (Dar-es-Salaam 27 numbers,
Zanzibar 23 numbers). At Amani the collecting was good (63 num-
bers) and at Moshi also, except on the open ground where it was too
dry (41 numbers). On Kilimanjaro the grasses were of much inter-
est, especially in the alpine regions (89 numbers).

In Kenya and Uganda the collecting was good though it was the
dry season around Nairobi. At Eldoret and Nakuru the grasses were
abundant and in fine condition (the numbers were as follows: Nairobi
117, Kisumu 35, Entebbe 52, Kampala 22, Jinja 50, Eldoret 51, at
stations between Eldoret and Nakuru 35, Nakuru 42, Naivasha, in
a much-erazed region, 19, Mombasa in about one hour’s collecting
40). The numbers for each locality represent for the most part differ-
ent species.

So far as collecting was concerned my attention was given exclu-
sively to the grasses. But my interest, of course, extended to other
plants. The peculiar flora of the Cape region, so rich in Proteaceae,
was of interest to all the botanists present. The many succulent plants
120 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Frc. 104.—Native huts near Jinja on Lake Victoria (the source of the Nile).

ee ae i

Fic. 105.—Massai women, wives of a chief. Spirals of brass wire are worn
around the neck and a heavy load is wound around the forearms. Heavy
ornaments hang from the distended earlobes, supported by a band over the
head.
*SOATJEU 94} A 991} JY} UI pade]d SSO], MO][OY jo
SOATYIAG 91B Sjoafqo oI1pul[AD asae] ayy, ‘Syoods []ews se sayoueriq
24} Suowre uses oq Abul spod 10 Ss}Inij sy ‘woseas AIP ay} I0F
seaea] S}t paddoip sey 9013 AyUIeSun pue snorimno siyy, ‘o1efuewypy
4 Ivou IYSOy je (DjDpIHIp viUuOsSUDpf’) 92213 Geqoeq W—'LoOI “DIY

SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1930

*‘SoAPa] oI1ayds
-tuay OM} JO Sjstsuod juR[d Yoey “sMO1S 4I YOIYM Suowe souo0js
a4} SUTTquasar Ajasopo Jueyd o1yAYydo1axX a]qeuyiewel yY ,,;00IRY ,, a4}
Ul Uspier) Ue IY} Je MSNjOg UNWmWaYyJUDAAQuasayy¥—'901 “O1yT

122 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

of the Karoo reminded me of our own arid regions of the West. The
grotesque baobab tree with its great trunk all out of proportion to the
branches was photographed by everyone who had a camera.

Altogether the trip was noteworthy because of the opportunity to
meet the South African botanists, to renew acquaintance with the
British botanists, to gain first-hand information concerning the floristic
conditions of another continent, and to obtain a fine collection of
grasses for the National Herbarium.
ANTHROPOLOGICAL WORK ON THE KUSKOKWIM
RVR Ae Se

By ALES HRDLICKA,
Curator of Physical Anthropology, U. S. National Museum

The work of the summer of 1930 was devoted principally to the
Kuskokwim River, the second largest stream of Alaska and hitherto
unknown to physical anthropology. The Kuskokwim flows to the
south of the Yukon, from the McKinley range of mountains to the
Kuskokwim bay or bight; and like the Yukon it has been partly peo-
pled by the Indian and partly by the Eskimo. In the thirties of the last
century it was discovered and sparsely colonized by the Russians. It
has at present a fairly large native and a small white population, the
latter consisting almost exclusively of traders, Government employees,
and, in the upper parts of the river, miners. It can only be reached
by the costly airplane, or over a broad and at times difficult portage
from the Yukon, or twice a year by a freight steamer from Seattle.

The route chosen was that across the portage. The trip from Wash-
ington took a whole month, due partly to the delayed season. Head-
quarters were established at Bethel, and from there two trips were
made, one down the bay as far as Apogak, the other upstream as far
as Stony River. The rapidity and success of the work were due largely
to the long days, and to aid received through the U. S. Bureau of
Fisheries and the Government Bureau of Education.’

The natives themselves were all that could be desired. To make the
work on the living more intelligible and sympathetic to them, it was
combined with examination of the lungs and heart, which led to the
learning of collateral facts of decided value. And the pathological
factor was accentuated with much benefit also in making the skeletal

* Special grateful acknowledgments are due to Messrs. Calvin F. Townsend
and Charles MacGonagal of the Bureau of Fisheries; to Mrs. Lulu A. Heron,
nurse, and Miss Anne Martin, teacher, Bethel, of the Bureau of Education: to
the fine men and women of the Moravian Missions; to the President and traders
of the Northern Commercial Company; to Mr. Clark M. Garber, Superintendent
of the Bureau of Education Schools, at Akiak; to Messrs. Samuelson, Brown,
Parent, and all the other traders along the river as far as this was covered; to
Game Warden Hollson and Postmaster Link of Bethel; to Mr. Jacobsen in the
same place; and to Messrs. Hofstedt, Frederickson, Sergei, and all those other
friendly people of the river, white and also native, who aided me in my endeavors.

9 123
INSTITUTION

SMITHSONIAN

‘yUuOIF UL SUTeUIOI PjO AIBA aUOS
‘punorsyoeq oY} Ul s[eling Yoanyo-ueIssny “OAT WIMyoH
-sny Jomo] ‘“yesody plo Jo spunois [end sy [— 601 “o1,T

“OAT WIMYOYSN YT
Jomo] ‘yesody pjo ‘aAvis ,, uesed ,, W—gOI “91g

SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1930 TZ

or

collections. The latter was carried on with the full knowledge of the
natives and often in their view and with their assistance. They were
told that I wanted only the old ‘* heathen ” remains, in which no living
person had any interest; that the bones were needed for studies and
for comparisons of the development, the type, and the diseases of the
old with those of the present people; and that they would be treated
with all possible consideration. The results both with the living and
with the skeletal remains were very gratifying. They comprise the
measurements of every fullblood male that could be found along the
lower 400 miles of the river and bay; observations on many of the
women, children, and mixedbloods; and collections filling over 50
boxes of precious old skeletal material. An unexpected but welcome
feature was the willingness of all the natives to be photographed, but
unfortunately the prevalent drizzles and cold weather of this year pre-
vented full success in this direction.

At Bethel, thanks especially to Mrs. Heron and Miss Martin, con-
tingents of Eskimo were obtained from a much larger territory than
could be visited. There were numerous individuals from the “ tundra ”’
(Johnson River) and some from as far as Nelson Island and Good-
news Bay. This gave valuable insight into conditions over a large and
hitherto unknown region.

More in detail, the results of the work were manifold. They may
briefly be enumerated as follows:

Population.—The native population of the Kuskokwim River is re-
stricted to the lower 350 miles of the stream with its affluents and to
its bay. It is estimated collectively at 3,000 individuals. It extends
up to the Stony River. In the 200 miles between the Stony and
McGrath there live now but three families of about 25 persons, a
large proportion of whom are young children, with very few if any
of the adults native to that region.

Race.—The entire region, up to near the Stony River and includ-
ing the Hoolitna River, is now and has apparently always been occu-
pied by the Eskimo. Only three Indians were encountered in this
region, all close to Stony River and all from elsewhere. The current
notion that the Eskimo reached to Sleitmute and the Indians began
above that was not borne out by the finds; the present extension of the
IXskimo certainly reaches to and includes the Hoolitna, and there
are no old sites between this and the Stony River which would show
a previous existence here of the Indian. The Indian territory if it
may be so called—for there are hardly any of them there—begins
close to the Stony River. But an occasional Indian type of face may
be noticed as far down as Napaimute and there are indications that
INSTITUTION

SMITHSONIAN

126

‘WIMYOYSNY, oppiu ‘oumysy jo dno1is y—' Ill “dy

ee

SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1930 127

some Eskimo-Indian mixture has taken place in these reaches. The
Kuskokwim Indian below McGrath has practically vanished. The
strong probability is that he was never over this part of the river in
any larger groups or numbers and that the Kuskokwim was not an
old home of the Indian. From Napaimute down to the bight there
is no trace of anything Indian excepting a few individuals (one a
Cherokee, another a Cree) who came here accidentally and merged
with the Eskimo.

The Eskimo.—tThe Eskimo of the Kuskokwim and the neighboring
regions are of a remarkably homogeneous and interesting type. This
type is characterized by short to medium stature, meso- to subbrachy-
cephalic head, mostly a rather short and broad face, large malars, small
prominence of the not very narrow nose, mongoloid eyes, full, dusky
red cheeks in the children and young, black straight to broadly wavy
hair, light brown (tan to submedium brown) skin, full chest, and
often relatively short limbs.

From Akiachok and especially Napaimute up the river, this type
shows a somewhat higher stature and greater robustness. It is poor-
est in the tundra region and in the coast villages towards Nelson Island.
Those differences correspond directly to differences in environment
and food—the worse these are, the lower in general is the physique
and also the energy of the people.

In the upper half of the Eskimo territory on the Kuskokwim, there
are numerous traces of Russian admixture. This is generally easy to
recognize by a greater stature and robustness, by the physiognomy, by
lighter eye color, by nearly white color of the skin of the body (the
face may be much as in fullbloods), and by greater and more white-
man-like beard. In some of the native fullbloods of the lower river
and the tundra the face is quite hairy, but the beard is not so thick
and soft as in whites. A few mixedbloods were seen on the upper river
that looked like Mexicans, indicating some Mediterranean admixture.
In but one case was there an indication of negro blood; the Eskimo as
a whole have been more fortunate in this respect than some of our
Indians.

Skeletal remains—The skeletal remains along the Kuskokwim
occur in two forms. The old burials, from the pre-Russian to about
the mid-Russian times, were all above or on the ground, in boxes or
“ houses of the dead ”’ made of roughhewn thick slabs, joined in dove-
tailed manner without nails. The bodies in these boxes lay invariably
in the contracted position, on their side, and with the head in generally
the same direction in one burial place, though this was not always the
same as that in other burial grounds. The boxes were constructed
‘UO SUIOS
SI JeYM je APISOLIND 9ATeU SuIUIeYD B OSTe sMOYS dSINO'T « OSRABS ,, B SEM
jnq :W9y} JO [[B 0} [BIN}eU SI a[IWIs oY, ‘esino T—FEII “Oly dys OSE SY}UOW XIG ‘“puRIS] UOSJaN Woy ‘asmoyJ—II ‘ony

INSTITUTION

Za
<
Z
5
)
n
kd
a0)
a
=
=
n

SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, I930 I29

Fic. 114.—A narrow ditch between two lakes—a part of the Yukon-Kus-
kokwim Portage. In places the boat has to be pushed or pulled through by the
occupants.

Fic. 115.—On the Lakes, a part of the “ Portage” between the Yukon and
Kuskokwim Rivers, May 31, 1930.
130 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

much as were those on the Yukon, and many were evidently decorated
by paint and even with animal and human figures. The body was
covered with caribou skin, or laid in with just what little it had on. In
some instances earth was placed about the corpse, but mostly there
was no earth in contact with the body. A clay dish (lamp) was
placed inverted in one corner, generally at the head but occasionally
at the feet, especially with the males; and there was nothing else of
value left or placed with the body. Above Bogus Creek, where the
lamps must have been scarce, even they were usually absent in the
burials.

Above the body in the box was a “ roof” of supports, in some in-
stances thick wooden slabs, and these were covered with birch bark;
or there was only a birch bark cover, taken generally from a canoe
and showing the sewing of the strips together. Then came 6 to 12
inches of earth; perhaps another birch bark layer and more earth;
and finally slabs or flat rafters, forming the top of the box burial, the
whole being supported by two side posts set in the ground and held
together by cross-pieces.

The details of the burials differed at different villages, but in any
one burial place there was great similarity, suggesting that all or most
of the burials at a given site were made by some one individual, an
“undertaker.” The nature of the burial in these cases had a great ef-
fect on the preservation of the remains, some of these being in excel-
lent condition, some crushed more or less and rotted. The burials
under Russian influence were all ground burials, with simple, nailed
coffins, two to three feet of earth and a sod or plank covering on the
top, headed by a Russian cross.

The skeletal remains from the older box burials have proved to be
of much more than usual interest from both the anthropological and
the medical points of view. Over one hundred of the older skeletons
were collected and more examined. They showed the following prin-
cipal features :

1. The type of the skull and the stature are about the same as
those of the people of today on the river. No marked change has
taken place in these respects evidently within many generations of
these people. The nature of the type, its sameness over a large ter-
ritory, and its extension well into the pre-Russian times, are facts of
much anthropological importance.

2. There is a remarkable freedom from fractures. There were
found no wounds of the skull or face, no fracture of the ribs, and
only two breaks of the long and other bones. These surely were no
fighting people or people given to violent exercise or sports.
lie

EXPLORATIONS, I930

SMITHSONIAN

‘jayyaq fo JsomM

af

-Yj}410u ‘eiIpuny ou} jo osIuUUuyy 2]

9g—o]oqeuuy—'Z11 ‘SI

“DOALT WIMYOYSNY ‘Joyjog sAoqe ‘oseueydigd) UOIssIyy
URIARIOW JY} Ye URWIOM SUNOA OWITYSY VUY W—OII “Ol
132 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

3. There is no trace in the older burials of tuberculosis. Two cases
that were encountered, were from burials of late Russian or earlier
post-Russian times (near or after 1867). It is positive therefore that
tuberculosis had not existed among these people before the contact
with whites. It was evidently brought here by the Russians. This
explains the present general lack of immunity against this scourge.
Every one of these people must be regarded as predisposed to the
disease, which is of consequence in dealing with them medically, in
schools and otherwise.

4. None of the bones collected or seen showed any trace of cancer,
tumors, inflammation, syphilis, or rachitis; and there were no signs of
Scurvy.

5. The prevailing pathological conditions in the older individuals
were those of the spine, accompanied occasionally with those of the
joints, and were arthritic in nature. All grades of arthritis deformans
were seen in the spine, from the beginning of marginal exostoses in
the lumbar and lower dorsal region to an ankylosis of the whole spine
due to fusion of those exostoses. In several cases two and in one
instance three of the cervicals were fused, with the rest of the spine
not much affected; in these cases there may have been some special
factor at play.

6. There were but a few really old people in these burials, show-
ing that real old age was rare; on the other hand there were but few
young adolescents or adults of both sexes, indicating lower mortality
among especially the young women than was found last year to have
prevailed on the Yukon. This indicates the absence on the Kuskokwim
of some pernicious habit that was present on the other river and that
probably related to the period of child bearing in the young women.

7. There were no perceptible traces in the burials of any Indian
influence or admixture.

The whole study shows the presence, along the 400 miles of the
lower Kuskokwim River and its bay, of a rather large and, in many
parts of the region, still mostly fullblood population, of remarkably
homogeneous character, and constituting the bulk of the western
Eskimo. It makes it certain that this type did not arise through mix-
ture with the Indian, but that it represents a pure old Eskimo strain, to
which conform a large majority of the Eskimo people in the Bering
Sea together with such important groups as those of Point Hope,
Smith Sound and elsewhere. This is, according to present indications,
the parental or basic type, from which the narrower and more keel-
shaped skull type of parts of the Seward Peninsula and the Arctic, and
‘eysepy ut adoad Jo yo] ysorddey ay} wosrfZ au0d “TOALY WIMYyOYSN yy
Ady} 1OF ‘optus 00} Ady}! ,, SOLYSNY ,, OWYSH II [—'OII “OL “SOTIUIS [BANZEU IIY} YPM ‘s[ILs OWITYSH 9IIY[—gII “IY

SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1930

134 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

especially that of southeastern Greenland and of Labrador, has been
developed.

Thus the work of the last few years throws a new light on the whole
Eskimo problem and brings it near, it would seem, to its final solution.

The work of the last two years indicates also much as to the future
of the Alaska Eskimo. He has a high mortality, but even higher
fecundity. He is not dying out and will not do so. But he is becoming
rapidly admixed with white blood. Part of this came from the Rus-
sians, part from marriages or unions of later whites with the attrac-
tive native women; and the mixedbloods are diffusing the blood among
the rest of the people. In all probability no pureblood Eskimo will
be born a century from now. Thus as a pureblood the western Alaska
Eskimo will in a few generations become largely if not entirely a
matter of scientific history. But the Eskimo-white population promises
to increase rather than decrease. The tuberculous troubles are already
frequently assuming a chronic form, and there are many cases of
partial and even complete recovery. With increasing knowledge the
people will also be able to better care for themselves. Thus it may
safely be expected that the Eskimo population, though more or less
altered in blood, will remain to form the human backbone of these
far away coasts and rivers. With this in view, everything possible
should be done towards curing and safeguarding this good, happy,
tractable, and already fairly civilized people, from their one great
scourge, tuberculosis, which is of white man’s introduction.
AN Cia Nt "CULE MUR E Olt Si ILAWINENCE ISLAND:
IE ASIN

Bie IEUSINURAY 185 (COMILIUNS, Jie.
Assistant Curator, Division of Ethnology, U. S. National Museum

On May 13 Mr. J. A. Ford and I sailed from Seattle on the Coast
Guard Cutter Northland for the purpose of conducting archeological
investigations on St. Lawrence Island, near Bering Strait. This was
my third consecutive cruise on the Northland and again I wish to thank
Capt. E. D. Jones and the officers and men of the ship, especially
Lieut. Comdr. N. R. Stiles, and Mr. H. Berg, for the many courtesies
shown us.

In 1928 and 1929 my excavations on Punuk and St. Lawrence
Islands had revealed the existence of a prehistoric phase of Eskimo
culture ancestral to the modern in that region and derived apparently
from a still earlier phase, the only evidence of which was a few elabo-
rately decorated artifacts of walrus ivory that had been found at
various old sites in the vicinity of Bering Strait. This oldest phase of
Alaskan Eskimo culture, the Old Bering Sea culture, appears to be the
oldest that has been found anywhere in the Eskimo regions. It also
possessed an art richer and more complex than that of any later Arctic
culture. The intermediate or Punuk stage showed similar implement
types, but the decorative designs, while they bore sufficient resem-
blances to those of the Old Bering Sea culture to warrant the assump-
tion that they had been derived therefrom, had become less flowing and
profuse and had taken on a rigidity more like that of modern Eskimo
aides

While such a development of Alaskan Eskimo culture seemed cer-
tainly to have taken place, much of the evidence was of an indirect
nature, for at the sites excavated in 1928 and 1929 I had found an
abundance of the Punuk art but hardly more than traces of that of
the Old Bering Sea period—not enough to afford evidence of the exact
relationship at these particular sites of the two old art styles. It was
very desirable, therefore, to find some old site at which occurred

'The Ancient Eskimo Culture of Northwestern Alaska. Explorations and
Field-Work of the Smithsonian Institution in 1928, pp. 141-150, 1920.

Prehistoric Eskimo Culture of Alaska. Explorations and Field-Work of
the Smithsonian Institution in 1929, pp. 147-156, 1930.

Prehistoric Art of the Alaskan Eskimo. Smithsonian Misc. Coll., Vol. 81,
No. 14, 1920.

135
136 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

both the Old Bering Sea and the Punuk cultures, so that by strati-
graphic excavation their relationship might be determined definitely.

In 1928 and again in 1929 the Northland stopped for a day at Gam-
bell (Sevuokok) at the northwestern end of St. Lawrence Island and
I had an opportunity to examine several deserted village sites in the
immediate vicinity. From the nature of the artifacts that had been
excavated from them—some collected for me by Paul Silook, an Es-
kimo at Gambell, and some shown to me by Mr. Otto Wm. Geist, who
had been collecting for the Alaska Agricultural College—it was plain
that these villages were of different ages. Only one of them had yielded
artifacts bearing the Old Bering Sea ornamentation, and this was also
the site which from its position in relation to former beach lines
appeared to be the most ancient. Here then, at Gambell, was a series
of old sites which gave promise of yielding the precise information
needed as to the cultural changes that had taken place on St. Lawrence
Island in prehistoric times, and it was accordingly selected as a place
for investigation.

Situated at the northwestern extremity of St. Lawrence Island,
the Eskimo village of Gambell is only 40 miles from the Siberian coast
which on any clear day is plainly visible. The 200 inhabitants live dur-
ing the winter in domed skin-covered houses with inner skin sleeping
room such as are also used by their Eskimo kinsmen in Siberia and
by the coast dwelling Chukchee ; the smaller skin structures formerly
used as summer dwellings have been almost entirely replaced by neat
lumber houses, outward evidence of the-prosperity that has lately come
to these Eskimo, principally from furs.

The present houses are built at the far end of a flat gravel spit
which extends westward for three-quarters of a mile from the base
of the low Gambell Mountain. From the top of this mountain one has
a clear view of the old beach lines, which, extending east and west
on the gravel spit below, show the manner in which the spit has been
built up. At the base of the mountain is the old village of Miyowagha-
meet, enclosed within the first and second (the earliest) beach lines,
and at the present time three-fourths, and half of a mile distant from
the sea. Since all maritime Eskimo villages are built close to the
sea it is only reasonable to assume that when Miyowaghameet was
occupied the sea was much nearer and that the greater part of the
present gravel spit has been built up subsequently.

Some 200 yards to the northward is a smaller village site, levog-
hiyogameet, its grass covered midden rising like a small island from
the flat gravel plain. This village is separated from Miyowaghameet
by four old beach lines, while to the northward six more beach lines
OV,

SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, I930

-YSPMOTYIS WoO.Iry ‘ZI

‘

II

: (UOTZBIOSIp BIS SUIS

‘QSEI[IA JSap[O WIOIy

_

‘a

opeyq UOdT YIM Ustopowl “FI taselIA pauopueqe A]JUII01 ysoul Wosy ‘EI {yoSeVAR

: POIUBSOATYSOAIT WO.IT ‘OI ‘6 £ (UOT}e1099
d PIO) PoweysemoAr wosy ‘S “bh ‘Ef (

p ynung ) Jooweysemodryy wosy ‘Q ‘Z ‘g
UOTVIOIIP BAS SULIIG PIO) epIs|[iy uo

I ‘[[oqurer) ye says ose]]IA PjO VAY oy} wWo1F spray uoodsey [eordA [—ozI “oI

138 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

lie between it and the sea. Its position would thus indicate that it had
been built later than Miyowaghameet and that during the time of its
occupancy and after its abandonment the sea had receded still fur-
ther, piling up still more gravel ridges.

Toward the end of the spit, behind the present village is the third
old village, Seklowaghayaget, but its position with reference to the
old beach lines is not so clear. Finally, immediately to the south of
the present village are the ruins of the semi-subterranean houses of
wood and whale bones, the last of which were occupied as late as 40
years ago.

In the kitchen-middens and house pits of these old villages we and
our Eskimo helpers excavated from June 20 to October 20. Our
method of excavation was to sink pits 12 feet square at various places
in the middens, taking them down in sections of a few inches thick-
ness as the frozen ground slowly thawed upon exposure to the atmos-
phere. As the work progressed we began to uncover a great variety
of objects—ivory, bone, stone, pottery, wood, baleen—representing
the hunting implements, tools, household equipment, ornaments and
other possessions of a people who were seen to have been uncommonly
skillful in shaping to their ends the material resources at their com-
mand. The objects excavated number several thousand, and repre-
sent a complete cross section of Eskimo culture at this one spot from
the earliest known period down to the present.

We had been excavating about a week when almost by accident we
made a discovery that added greatly to the significance of these old
villages as landmarks of Eskimo chronology. Just back of Miyo-
waghameet, on the lower part of the mountain slope, we found a site
of pure Old Bering Sea culture. The trail to the top of the mountain
passed over the surface of this old village and although many genera-
tions of Eskimo had followed it not one of those now living had sus-
pected that anything lay beneath the moss and rocks. But this is easy
to understand for the surface showed not the slightest irregularity, nor
were there any timbers or whale bones or shallow depressions of house
pits, such as usually mark the sites of old Eskimo villages. Only at
one place was any refuse visible and this a small patch less than two
feet square which by weathering had become exposed in a rock crev-
ice. The rest of the midden for many yards around was so completely
covered with moss and sod and fallen rocks that it blended perfectly
into the hillside. As our work progressed it became clear that this
site had been both settled and abandoned within the period of the Old
Bering Sea culture, for from top to bottom of the small midden the
about 30—were all of the Old Bering Sea style

decorated objects
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1930 139

Fic. 121.—Gravel spit at Gambell on which are situated the present village,
at the far end, and four abandoned villages. Miyowaghameet, the oldest
of these is shown in the foreground. The lines of snow follow the old beach
lines.

Fic. 122.—Excavating a recent house ruin at Gambell. This type, with
wooden floor and walls and roof of wood and whale bones, was occupied as
late as 40 years ago.

10
I40 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

with no trace of the later Punuk art. Many undecorated objects
were also found, revealing for the first time the common implement
types of the Old Bering Sea culture. Harpoon heads were of various
types: with closed and open shaft sockets, with one, two, or three
spurs, with end blades and with side blades.’

At Miyowaghameet, the next oldest site, the eastern and southern
parts of the midden were found to continue deep below the sod and
to be practically continuous with the old hillside midden. The deco-
rated objects from this section of Miyowaghameet belonged also to
the Old Bering Sea period, but already a change was noticeable; the
designs, while still very elaborate, were somewhat uniform, in con-
trast to those of the hillside site which displayed more freedom in
the utilization of the various design elements. However, the most
beautiful objects were those belonging to this later stage of the Old
Bering Sea Culture. At the upper levels of the eastern and southern
sections of the Miyowaghameet midden were found a few scattered
objects bearing the simple line and dot ornamentation of the Punuk
period. At the opposite or northern and western parts of the midden
Punuk art was found from the surface to a depth of about 5 feet,
but below that Old Bering Sea pieces were the prevailing forms. A
similar condition was found in regard to harpoon heads. Those from
the older sections were mostly of the complicated Old Bering Sea
types while the later ones, of Punuk age, were simpler in form as
well as decoration.

It is evident, therefore, that when the first settlers came to Miyo-
waghameet—no doubt from the hillside village—they brought the
Old Bering Sea culture with them. Somewhat later, as the village
expanded to the northward and westward the rich old art had been
replaced by the simplified art of the Punuk period. New types of
harpoon heads appeared and some of the old types were discontinued.
There were likewise changes in some of the other implement types but
on the whole the material culture was not greatly altered.

The Punuk art, which had appeared in the later sections of Miyo-
waghameet, had continued to flourish at the next oldest village, now
represented by the levoghiyogameet midden. But here it underwent
certain changes ; the lines became straighter and deeper, and mechani-
cally made circles appeared. Harpoon heads became simpler in form

*Harpoon heads are seen to have assumed a wide variety of forms on
St. Lawrence Island in prehistoric times but their development was along lines
that to a considerable degree can be traced; there is reason to believe that
these implements will have relatively as important a role in the elucidation of
problems of Eskimo prehistory as pottery has had in the Southwest.
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1930 I41I

Fic. 123.—Eskimos hauling up a dead walrus on the beach.

Fic. 124.--Ruined house, probably 200 to 300 years old. In foreground is
shown the oval antechamber, connected by a narrow passage with the square
inner room. Constructed of stones and whale and walrus bones.
142 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

and included a few examples typical of the Thule culture, an extinct
Eskimo culture which formerly centered about Hudson’s Bay.

At Seklowaghayaget we found again only the Punuk art. The
harpoon heads from the lower levels of the midden were of the type
found at levoghiyogameet but the simplification that had been in proc-
ess at that place had here gone still further, for those found in the
upper levels of the Seklowaghayaget midden were mainly of two types,
one, evidently local, a small flat undecorated head with open shaft
socket which in cross section approaches a triangular shape, and the
other a small open socket head of Thule type without end blade.

As Seklowaghayaget became abandoned, houses were built near by,
immediately to the south of the present village, and these and the mid-
dens about them represent the latest of the five abandoned sites in the
vicinity of Gambell. The two types of harpoon heads last mentioned
had continued in use but the local type with almost triangular socket
underwent a series of rather rapid changes and emerged as the thick,
iron-bladed, closed-socketed form of the present time. The refuse
about these latest ruins yielded a few examples of Punuk art, but more
of the modern. Glass beads and iron were also found as well as a
number of modern types of implements that had not appeared at the
older sites.

In addition to the stratigraphic excavations made in the middens,
ten house-pits were dug, one or more at each of the old sites. The
houses of the Old Bering Sea period, heretofore unknown, were found
to be small semi-subterranean structures, square in outline, with stone
floors and walls of small driftwood timbers laid horizontally. There
was a narrow entrance passage at a slightly lower level, with stone
floor and walls and flat wooden roof.

The earlier houses of the Punuk period were of exactly the same
type but of larger dimensions. At one place in the Miyowaghameet
midden, evidence of direct superposition was found: the corner of
one of these larger houses, in which only Punuk art was found, had
been built over the fallen wall of a smaller house from which came
decorated pieces only of the Old Bering Sea type. In the later part
of the Punuk period, house walls were made of stones and bones,
principally whale vertebrae and walrus skulls. There was also an
enlargement of, and sometimes an annex to the entrance passage, for
use as a store room or for cooking. Wooden floors and walls of small
upright timbers were found only in the latest house ruins.

The excavations at Gambell have thus revealed in considerable detail
the long succession of cultural changes that came about in past cen-
turies as one village after another was established and then abandoned.
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1930 143

The resulting chronology, as outlined above, is based on three main
lines of evidence: stratigraphy, the evidence of the old beach lines,
and the demonstrable succession of art styles and implement types.
The value of the chronology that is thus set up will in a wider sense
be determined by the extent to which it can be applied to the elucida-
tion of cultural sequences elsewhere in the Eskimo regions. We know
that the material culture of the modern St. Lawrence Island Eskimo
stands somewhat apart from the rest of Alaska, being derived for the
most part from the Siberian Eskimo who in turn have been strongly
influenced in comparatively late times by the Chukchee. As we go

Fic. 125.—Ruins of house of older type than fig. 124. Underground en-
trance shown in background. At center foreground the rear wall extends
over the corner of a still earlier house of the Old Bering Sea period.

further back, however, it is seen that the St. Lawrence Eskimo,
instead of being isolated, shared in the earlier and artistically more
highly developed culture that formerly extended over a large part of
northern Alaska and northeastern Siberia. For the Old Bering Sea
culture is known to have existed also on the Siberian coast, the
Diomede Islands, at Cape Prince of Wales, Point Hope, and Point
Barrow, while the later Punuk art has been found at the Diomedes
and at Point Hope. With regard to the relationship of the old Thule
culture of the East, it is significant that on St. Lawrence Island definite
Thule types do not appear until well into the Punuk period. This is
in keeping with the general situation in Alaska wherever Thule types
I44 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

are found; they seem to be always later than those of the Old Bering
Sea culture. From present indications it appears probable that careful
excavations around Point Barrow would reveal the best evidence of
the exact relationship between these two old Eskimo cultures. Equally
important is the question of the relation of the Old Bering Sea cul-
ture to the existing Eskimo groups between Bristol Bay and the Yukon
and even to the Indians of the Northwest Coast, such as the Tlingit
and Haida. Then there remains the most important problem of all—
the origin of the Old Bering Sea culture itself; but this, as well as the
other problems of Eskimo archeology can only be solved by further
excavations.

While the Northland was staying at Unalaska for a few days in
June and again in November we were able to make limited excava-
tions at three ancient Aleutian sites on Amaknak Island. The midden
deposits were of considerable size, ranging in depth from 5 to 15
feet. They were also easy to excavate, for unlike those on St. Lawrence
Island, they were not frozen. However, compared with the Eskimo
middens, they yielded but few artifacts, none of which were compar-
able either in art or craftsmanship with ancient Eskimo specimens.
The prehistoric Aleuts seem to have possessed a rather simple mate-
rial culture which continued with little or no change during the cen-
turies that they inhabited these barren and inhospitable islands.

Fifty skulls and skeletons were collected at an old Eskimo site
near Rocky Point, on Norton Sound, but probably none were over 100
years old. Twenty King Island Eskimos at Nome were measured
and 60 St. Lawrence Islanders at Gambell; on the latter group hand
and foot prints were also taken.

The most interesting feature of the season’s work, aside from the
archeological finds at Gambell, was the discovery of a fossil-bearing
coal and shale outcrop of Tertiary age, rich with the remains of
sequoia, poplar, and other plants. Prof. R. W. Chaney, of the Carnegie
Institution of Washington, is responsible for the discovery, for it
was he who requested that I try to locate such fossils. The existence
of fossils of sequoia and other trees on the now barren St. Lawrence
Island is regarded by Professor Chaney as affording conclusive evi-
dence of a former land connection between Asia and America; for
sequoia, which at the present time are restricted to California, have
been found as fossils in Southeast Alaska, Northeastern Siberia and
Mongolia. Paleontologists have long assumed that there must have
existed a land bridge between Asia and America in the region of
Bering Strait, in Tertiary times, for in no other way could the simi-
larity of the fauna and flora of the two continents be explained.
PREHISTORIC SANTO DOMINGAN KITCHEN-MIDDENS.
CEMETERIES, AND EARTHWORKS

By HERBERT W. KRIEGER,
Curator, Division of Ethnology, U. S. National Museum

The third consecutive season of archeological work in Santo
Domingo was begun in January and concluded in May, 1930. As
in preceding years, the work was made possible through a subvention
of Dr. W. L. Abbott, who had previously conducted biological investi-
gations principally in the high mountains surrounding Constanza val-
ley, and on the southern slopes of the Central Cordillera in the prov-
ince of Azua.

The season’s work opened on the south coast, at the little Domini-
can village of Andres on the Bahia de Andres, an arm of the Carib-
bean, situated approximately 30 kilometers east of the capital city of
Santo Domingo. The writer first became interested in what had been
reported as an Arawak burial ground at Boca Chica, when viewing in
March, 1929, the collection of Senor Andres Socias, of Copey, Monte
Cristi Province. In that collection was an earthenware vessel differ-
ent from the usual type of pottery from the north coast of Santo
Domingo. Senor Socias had obtained the vessel several years previ-
ously from a friend residing at Boca Chica. The Indian burial ground
at Boca Chica (Andres) had in the meantime been worked by Mr.
Thomas Howell, of New York, the president of the Compania
Azucarera Boca Chica. In 1928 while excavating for a new sugar
warehouse many skulls, skeletons, and accompanying pottery vessels
were uncovered. Before Howell’s attention was directed to these finds
a large number of earthenware vessels had been wantonly destroyed
by the laborers.

In 1930 the writer proceeded to Andres hoping to learn more of
the culture stratification in the adjoining kitchen-midden. Mr. Fox,
the resident manager of the concern, during the absence of Mr.
Howell, kindly granted the writer permission to carry on investiga-
tions for the Smithsonian Institution on the property directly in
front of the sugar warehouses where most of the finds were being
made. Local officials of the Dominican Government granted permis-
sion to explore within the confines of the adjoining village of Andres.
Living quarters were supplied by the Compania Azucarera, the offi-
cials of which assisted the undertaking in every possible manner.

145
146 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Fic. 126.—A modern sugar factory, Compania Azucarera, Boca Chica.

Fic. 127,—Three-roller sugar mill, Valley of the Rio Tireo.
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, I930 147

The former aboriginal village site at Andres extends along the
coast all the way from Boca Chica, at the eastern end of the Bay of
Andres, through the village of Andres near the western end of the
bay, where it terminates abruptly in front of the warehouses of the
Boca Chica Sugar Central. The unusually extensive shell midden
characterizing this ancient Arawak settlement rests directly on a bed
of coral rock. Directly fronting the warehouses and refinery build-
ings is a large sand spit projecting out into the bay and covering to a
depth of 3 to 10 feet or more the coral rock which underlies the entire
area. This sand spit was utilized by the former aboriginal occupants
of the region as the only possible burial ground within an extensive
area along the southeastern Santo Domingan coast. It was here that
they buried with their dead many bowls, food dishes, and water jars.

The Andres-Boca Chica site is perhaps the most extensive of any
West Indian archeological station known at the present time. More
skulls and earthenware vessels and other objects representative of
Arawak culture have been recovered intact than from all other known
sites in the West Indies combined. There is a remarkable uniformity
throughout, both as to midden deposits and as to burial offerings,
which had apparently not been disturbed, a favored position for the
water jars being at either side and for the food dishes directly in
front of the flexed skeleton.

After making a representative collection of anteriorly deformed
Arawak crania through excavating in front of the sugar warehouse
and later within the village of Andres, studies were made of the
midden deposits. These consisted for the most part of a dense layer
of conch shells (Strombus pugilis L.) intermingled with fish bones,
leg bones and carapaces of turtle, and of mandibles of several species
of crab. The midden deposits resting on the solid coral do not
exceed 5 feet in depth. A thin stratum of soil covers the midden. No
stratigraphic changes within the midden were apparent at the places
where test excavations were made.

The next project to be undertaken during the 1930 season was in
the nature of an archeological reconnoissance in the high mountain
valleys of the provinces of La Vega and Azua. The mountainous
backbone of the island, the Cordillera Central, starts from low hills
in the Republic of Haiti on the east and attains its greatest height in
the west central part of Santo Domingo. The range appears as a
jumble of ridges and peaks and flat valleys. There are outcroppings of
many different kinds of rocks—effusive and intrusive igneous rocks,
schists and other metamorphics, and a great variety of sedimentary
INSTITUTION

SMITHSONIAN

148

‘speoq pur ‘sjurpuod ‘Joiqey e ‘MOjaq ! SapRyq axXB Ul YIOM duo}s JO SUIOF JeNSnUN
‘AOG YW :SAIPUY J USPPIWI-U9YIPY YBMPIY WOLF PIIIAOIIA JAR §1IAII 9UOJS JO SatdweXs]

‘QZI “Oly

149

1930

XPLORATIONS,

4

SMITHSONIAN

ve

ueuleg ul uol}e}10dsues} jo suvoll JoyjJOUuUV

‘OL 1

‘OY

‘eooeqeief 1e3u

‘wa,qoid uorzejs1odsuesy ay}

SUIAJOS—6zZ1 “DIyT

150 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

rocks, including coral beds in the vicinity of Loma de Rio Grande
south of Constanza.

The highway across the Cordillera Central from Santo Domingo
City by way of the carretera Duarte passes through the town of
Bonao, a town of 1,000 inhabitants, and terminates at La Vega. This
is a well improved automobile highway and even from the seat of
a speeding automobile one obtains a view of the surrounding country-
side remarkable for its native and undeveloped beauty. La Vega
is reached all too soon and the hunt is begun for a light car to take
one on the first lap of the journey into the heart of the Cordillera.

The goal of the journey is the valley of Constanza, well known to
naturalists from the days of Humboldt, Schomburgk, and Gabb. In
recent years Abbott, Wetmore, Ekman, and others, including Wythe
Cook of the survey party conducting a geological reconnoissance of
the Dominican Republic, have carried on investigations in their re-
spective fields along the Constanza trail.

One branch of this trail starts at Santiago de los Caballeros, passes
southward along the east side of the Rio Yaque del Norte to the town
of Baitoa. Later the Santiago trail is united with the La Vega branch
of the Constanza trail which is passable for light automobiles, and
trucks as far as Jarabacoa, although much work remains to be done
in the way of bridge building and grading. The Rio Yami must
be forded, as must also the Rio Jimenoa, before the immediate goal,
the town of Jarabacoa, is reached, where the automobile is discarded
for pack saddle and mule train.

After leaving the valley of the Jimenoa and the proximity of
Jarabacoa, the climb up the steep and rocky defile of the Arroyo
Baiguate brings one to the top of El Barrero. The narrow trail, fol-
lowing the crests of ridges that buttress the narrow mountain crest,
descends the southern slope and again ascends to El Paso Bajito,
once more encountering the Rio Jimenoa which is forded at El Rio.
Here, in the narrow flat valley may be seen aboriginal earthworks
resembling very much those to be described later from Constanza.
After leaving El Rio one must ascend another mountain crest, the
Loma del Hato Quemado which marks the watershed between the
waters flowing east into the Camu and Yuna Rivers which empty
themselves into the Bay of Samana on the Dominican east coast.

Circling along the crests of ridges in a general southerly direction,
the trail descends to the narrow valley of the upper Tireo River, a
tributary of the Yuna River, where several aboriginal earthworks
of the Constanza type were observed. There were also observed
scattered groups of the peculiar natural mounds, resulting from ex-
foliation, but which are locally known as Indian burial mounds.
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1930 I51

Fic. 131.—Jarabacoa, a village in the interior mountain valleys of
La Vega Province.

Fic. 132.—The village of Constanza, Loma de Rio Grande in the background
on the south.
152 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

From the valley of the Rio Tireo, the final ascent up the flank of
the Loma del Valle brought into view the panorama of the flat valley
of Constanza framed by encircling mountains. The valley occupies an
area of 30 square kilometers and lies at an altitude of 1,100 meters
above sea level. At its southeastern corner two tiny rivulets, the
Pantufle and the Rio Constanza, drain the valley and unite to form
the Rio Limon. The village of Constanza is sheltered under tower-
ing mountains at the northeast corner of the valley. Just north of the
village is the largest of the series of parallel aboriginal earthworks,
first described by Schomburgk in 1851.

Living quarters were obtained in the house of Senor Felix Matias,
a kindly Dominican, whose aid in obtaining permits to carry on exca-
vations was much appreciated and is here gratefully acknowledged.
Laborers were readily obtained and within a few days a system of
procedure was developed. Two apparently “ natural born” archeolo-
gists, Antonio M. Garcia, the local weather observer for the Domini-
can government, and a campesino who answered to the simple name
of Pong, began a systematic survey of the surrounding mountains
in search of caves or rock ledges containing Indian burials. In this
they were quite successful.

In the rock ledge burials on the flanks of the Loma la Cumbre
between the Rio Tireo and the Jimenoa; on the slopes of Loma de
Rio Grande, Monte Culo de Maco, Loma Rucilla, or Pico del Yaque,
Loma Chinguela, and Monte Cucurucho, and of the hills in the more
immediate vicinity of Constanza careful search was made for burial
offerings. A few stone beads, pendants, zemis, fragments of burial
pottery, also a small number of intact earthenware vessels were dis-
covered in juxtaposition to the skeletal remains.

Under the tutelage of a Dominican whose family name is forgotten,
but whose given name of Josesito seemed particularly appropriate,
the writer began a search within the valley of Constanza for a domi-
ciliary midden sufficiently well preserved to yield cultural material
for stratigraphic study. At many places in Constanza valley, also in
the upper valley of the Tireo, pottery sherds were examined. Upon
investigation the culture deposit invariably proved to be merely a few
inches in depth and unsuitable for excavation. Opportunity was seized
on these reconnoitering trips to purchase any archeological specimen
offered. Soon the entire countryside became engaged in commercial
archeology, but the ideal midden deposit remained undiscovered.

Many natural formations resembling small circular artificial earth
mounds, said to be Indian burials, were reported from widely sepa-
rated locations, but on investigation they proved to be unusually ex-
SM ITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, I930 153

Fic. 133.—Pine forests on the slopes of Loma de Rio Grande.

Fic, 134.—The Rio Grande.
154 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

foliated masses of rock and pebbles in circular heaps from five to eight
feet in diameter projecting from one to four feet above the surround-
ing soil level under which lay rock fragments and pebbles similarly
exfoliated and disintegrated. The regularity of these natural mounds,
dotting a flat valley floor in a striking way, is remarkable. The proof
that they could not be aboriginal burials was near at hand if one were
provided with pick and shovel. Test holes were made of these peculiar
formations at Manabao, also in the valley of the Rio Tireo, and in
the valley of Constanza on the otherwise level valley floor between
the village of Constanza and the streamlet named Pantufle.

Sir Robert Schomburgk in an article in the Athenaeum published
in 1851 reported the presence of an Indian cemetery in the valley of
Constanza and offers as evidence the following data: “ Nearby is a
burial ground toward the foot of the southern mountains of the
valley—one hour of brisk walking through pine forests brought us to
a rivulet. Here were earthworks of semi-circular form. Crossing the
brook were burials covered with greenstone in circular form bounded
by the mound, the rivulet, and the pine forest.’’ Obviously Schom-
burgk did not dig into these mounds as he makes no further mention
of them. His observation has, however, been recorded on his map of
the Dominican Republic, and for many years thereafter all maps of the
country indicated the presence of an Indian cemetery in the valley of
Constanza. Nearby, just above the waterfall locally known as El
Chorro southeast of Constanza village, begins the rocky crest of a
hogback, a long upward-sloping hill, under the scattered comb of
which the writer was successful in recovering skeletal and cranial
fragments along with pottery offerings. This cyclopean-like outcrop-
ping of faulted rock has been mistakenly cited by some writers as an
aboriginal monumental wall erected for defense.

The culturally more advanced Arawak of the mountainous in-
terior of Santo Domingo deserve to be classified with the Mississippi
Valley mound builders, even though they did not construct burial
mounds. Many artificial structures of earth were erected by them
principally in the uplifted valleys of the northern central mountain
ranges of Santo Domingo. Some of these mounds, varying in height
but never exceeding more than a few feet at most, are round, others
are rectangular. Most of them, however, are in the form of two par-
allel embankments. Four series of these parallel embankments were
observed by the writer in the valley of Constanza. Their average
height is from 3 to 10 feet, with a width of 20 feet in transverse sec-
tion at the bottom. The mounds are free from rocks and contain
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1930

Ay) O

Sumo OWLS ‘UMasNyY [LUOCIFeN URoTUTWIOG dy} FO UOIZIATTOI dy} UT S9q}}Oq Jo}eM JIA

ee a

Tal

ayyiea poyelos9q— StI “1

II
150 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

practically no artifacts except occasionally a broken celt, hammer-
stone, or broken sherd from some water vessel or food bowl. At their
bottom beneath the embankment at a level with the adjoining terrain,
we again find the same soil that normally appears elsewhere as a
surface stratum, showing that the entire structure had been laboriously
piled up by the natives with earth from nearby fields for some un-
known purpose.

The 1930 season concludes the series of archeological investiga-
tions conducted by the Smithsonian Institution and the United States
National Museum in the territory of the Dominican Republic. Ac-
knowledgment is made of the courtesy and aid extended by Domini-
can government officials both in the capital city of Santo Domingo
and in the provinces. It is hoped that the work accomplished may be
of benefit to students of West Indian archeology generally and to
those interested in correlating the northern and southern affiliations of
Floridian and of Gulf State mound cultures.
ARIZONA'S )}PREHISTORIC CANALS, FROM THE AIR*
By NEIL M. JUDD,

Curator, Division of Archeology, U. S. National Museum

Out in central Arizona, where cotton fields, citrus groves and date
palms reach out across endless miles to caress jagged igneous and
sandstone buttes, prehistoric peoples once erected a noteworthy civilt-
zation upon an agricultural foundation. That ancient civilization 1s
gone now—lost with the desert acres on which it flourished—and
few traces remain of the gigantic canals that made its primitive agri-
culture possible.

But those few traces merit careful preservation. They are all we
have left to remind us of that unnamed, aboriginal folk whose engi-
neering achievements rightfully arrest the attention of our mechanical
age. For those prehistoric canals—it has been estimated that half a
century ago there were no less than 300 miles of them in the Salt
River valley alone—were so accurately and efficiently constructed that
portions of them, taken over by white settlers of 1870 and thereabouts,
are actually in use at the present time. And here is another point we
are apt to overlook: Every mile of those ancient channels was lit-
erally dug by hand, since the Arizona Indians knew nothing either
of beasts of burden or metal tools until well on in the seventeenth
century.

Following the old canal banks, one occasionally happens upon the
fragment of a stone “ hoe ”—a thin blade of igneous rock, chipped on
one side to a cutting edge. With such rude tools, with fractured cob-
blestones and sharpened sticks, the canal builders hacked and prodded
at the hard desert soil. In baskets and blankets, we may safely con-
jecture, women and children carried the loosened earth out from the
excavation. Thus, mile after weary mile, an entire community labored
to construct the canals that watered their communal fields.

Nowhere else in the New World has evidence been found of pre-
historic irrigation systems comparable to those of central Arizona.
They may even have surpassed, both in size and in the number of
acres served, those famous systems of the Tigris and Euphrates val-
leys—irrigation works that watered the seed of native ability and

In December, 1930, Mr. Odd S. Halseth, of Phoenix, was continuing cer-
tain studies connected with this aerial survey, in behalf of the Bureau of Ameri-
can Ethnology.

157
Fic. 136.—Prehistoric Indian canal east of Mesa, Arizona, partly recondi-
tioned and used by Mormon pioneers of 1878; subsequently replaced by the
modern Consolidated Canal. (Photograph by Set. R. A. Stockwell; courtesy
of the Chief of Air Corps, U. S. Army.)

persis

Fic. 137—‘“ The Park of Four Waters,” near Phoenix, preserves remnants
of old Indian canals and the “ Swilling Ditch” of 1867. On the right margin,
close above the Grand Canal, Pueblo Grande ruin shows through the trees.
(Photograph by Set. R. A. Stockwell; courtesy of the Chief of Air Corps,
WEeS® Ami; )

158
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1930 159

brought forth into full bloom high civilizations that made Mesopo-
tamia known throughout the ancient world.

With prodigious labor, the Peruvians of pre-Spanish times led ir-
rigation ditches along craggy heights of the Andes to their terraced
gardens. Among the highlands of Mexico and again in various sec-
tions of the southwestern United States, Indian farmers had learned
that irrigation was necessary to the successful cultivation of food
crops. In November, 1694, Padre Eusebio Kino stood before the drab
walls of Casa Grande ruin and speculated upon the feasibility of
restoring its abandoned, overgrown canals. Five hundred years before
Kino was born the inhabitants of Pueblo Bonito, in Chaco Canyon,
New Mexico, were capturing the mid-summer rains, taming and guid-
ing them onto thirsty fields. But none of these efforts matched the
colossal, prehistoric irrigation systems of the Gila and Salt river
valleys.

We wanted maps of these latter, hand-made Indian canals. We
wanted to know their extent, their position relative to each other, the
approximate acreage they once watered. Similar desires on the part
of other observers had prompted surveys which were not altogether
successful for the very simple reason that so little is now visible of the
ancient ditches. Modern agriculture has been too destructive; it has
plowed and planted until the aboriginal farming communities and their
works were pretty thoroughly obliterated. From the ground, one’s
range of vision is too limited; from the air it might be possible to
recover data for the maps we had in mind. At least this seemed the
most promising, expeditious method when I made a preliminary study
of the situation in the autumn of 1929."

So, at the solicitation of United States Senator Carl Hayden, the
Smithsonian Institution and the War Department cooperated in an
aerial survey of the Salt and Gila river valleys, beginning late in
January, 1930. Lieutenant Edwin Bobzien and Sergeant R. A. Stock-
well, pilot and photographer, respectively, were detailed from the
Air Corps unit at Crissy Field, San Francisco, and I was designated
Smithsonian representative, to advise with the aviators.

Our small party assembled at Phoenix, blocked out the areas to be
photographed and speedily set to work. Smoke and ground haze drew
an impenetrable blanket over Salt River valley each morning and
evening, thus restricting flying time to a brief two hours at midday
when shadows are at a minimum. The longer shadows of early morn-

‘Explorations and Field-work of the Smithsonian Institution in 1920, pp.
177-182. Washington, 1930.
160 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

ing and late afternoon would naturally have thrown into greater relief
those slight elevations which mark ancient house sites and irrigation
ditches.

But, despite handicaps of various sorts, our air survey proceeded
about as we had planned it. First of all there was the Gila River val-
ley, from its union with the Rio Salado to the northwestern slopes of
the Tortilla Mountains—a far-reaching plain whereon Pima and
Papago farmers tilled favored patches of irrigable land long before
the advent of missionaries, trappers, Pony Express riders, and other
pioneers of a period now all but forgotten.

American settlers trailed into the upper Gila valley during the third
quarter of the nineteenth century and drew so heavily upon the avail-
able water supply that the Indian farmers below were finally brought
to a state of destitution. Government promises of relief were made
and remade but a half century passed before the Coolidge Dam was
completed and provision thus made to meet the needs of whites and
Indians alike. The great reservoir 1s slowly filling and, 70 miles away,
farm lands wait thirstily for the life-giving waters.

With huge, snorting machines that make an Indian’s home-made
tools seem, by comparison, as nothing at all, 56,000 acres of desert
land are being cleared, leveled, and otherwise prepared for irrigation
at the rate of 20 acres a day. But the mechanical monsters of the
modern engineer are no respecters of prehistoric canals! The latter
were being destroyed along with other heritages from the past. Ours
was the task of discerning and recording some vestige of those ancient
irrigation systems while fleeting opportunity permitted.

Up one side of the Gila and down the other, Lieutenant Bobzien
held his blue Douglas observation plane on a fixed course at 10,000
feet elevation while Sergeant Stockwell pointed his camera through a
hole in the floor and snapped the shutter with clock-like precision to
picture a square mile on each successive negative. Over famed Casa
Grande ruins the ship sailed lower in search of those ancient canals
seen by Kino and which new cotton fields seem to have erased abso-
lutely. And then back to the Indian gardens that border the meander-
ing Gila from Sacaton to Pima Butte and beyond.

Like strips of Grandmother’s quilt those gardens are! Queer, mis-
shapen patches with thin ribbons of dark green running this way and
that where lesser irrigation ditches crazy-stitched the variegated scraps
together. Yet, hopelessly confused and insignificant as these minia-
ture farms appear from a height of nearly two miles, they played a
not unimportant part in the conquest of southern Arizona.
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1930

161

(Photograph by Set. R. A. Stockwell;

courtesy of the Chief of Air Corps, U. S. Army.)

Fic. 138.—Prehistoric canals on north side of Salt River, north of Mesa, Arizona.
162 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Indian farmers tended those fertile fields for untold generations
before Francisco Vasquez de Coronado and his band of resolute ad-
venturers marched gayly northward out of Mexico in 1540 to dig
mythical gold from the Seven Cities of Cibola. When Padre Kino
came plodding his patient way toward salvation of the Pima and
Papago tribes late in the seventeenth century, those funny Indian gar-
dens fed his men and mules. And they supported, too, the westward-
bound gold-seekers of ’49; the animals and personnel both of the
Pony Express and the later stagecoach companies; the U. S. Army
units stationed in Arizona before and after the Civil War. Except for
those gardens and the Pima and Papago scouts who served so faith-
fully throughout the protracted Apache campaign, Victorio and
Geronimo doubtless would have continued their murderous depreda-
tions for still another decade. The peaceful Indian tribes of the Gila
valley have well merited, and with interest, the Government-aided
irrigation system which once more makes possible the successful cul-
tivation of their Lilliputian farms.

In the Salt River valley, prehistoric peoples also converted cacti-
covered wastes into gardens of maize, beans, and squashes. They
built, nearby, thick-walled, flat-roofed homes of mud, pressed and
patted into layer upon layer. Here, as along the Gila, industrious
generations dwelt in peace and plenty, tending their growing plants,
digging new ditches, hunting deer among thorny mesquite, until some
great, irresistible force came finally to claim possession. What that
force really was no one knows today. It may have been a slight diminu-
tion in annual rainfall; more likely, it was increasing pressure from
nomadic tribes. But, in either case, after a period which none may
yet measure, the Indian farmers of the Rio Salado vacated their
cultivated fields, abandoned their compact settlements and moved on
to other, perhaps less favored localities. Substantial dwellings
crumbled into low, spreading mounds ; irrigation systems slowly filled
with wind-driven sand; the desert crept back to claim its own.

Not until the middle nineteenth century did Salt River valley re-
awaken to such industry as it had known in prehistoric times. Not
until 1865, or thereabouts, did hardy pioneers follow in on the dim
trails of the beaver trappers and the gold-seekers to select the thorny
plains of the Rio Salado as a likely place in which to build their
humble homes.

Among these pioneers was one Jack Swilling, somewhat more
imaginative than his neighbors, who appears to have been the first to
recognize the possibility of local irrigation. Obviously influenced by
the nearby prehistoric canals, Swilling started to clear out one of
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1930 163

Fic. 139.—A section of an ancient Indian canal west of Granite Reef dam.
(Photograph by Judd.)

A partially destroyed ancient Indian canal west of Granite Reef
dam, lying 25 feet above the present bed of Salt River. (Photograph by
Judd.)

Fic. 140.

164 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

these as a ready means of watering his own fields. And then, in
1867, he organized the company which constructed the first modern
canal in Salt River valley.

Remnants of this old “ Swilling ditch ” and sections of three ancient
Indian canals are still visible in ““ The Park of Four Waters,” wisely
preserved by the city of Phoenix. Close by stands the ruin of Pueblo
Grande, a huge pile of crumbling walls and pale yellow clay, excava-
tion of which was initiated in 1929 by City Archeologist Odd A.
Halseth.

Largest surviving example of the communal dwellings which dotted
Salt River valley in prehistoric times, Pueblo Grande marks a former
center of population from which industrious Indian farmers trudged
forth to their daily toil. From the flat roofs of their earth-walled
homes those same farmers saluted the rising and setting sun as the
father of all living things. For in olden times, no less than today, the
sun meant life to dwellers in Salt River valley.

Over on the south side, Pioneer Charles T. Hayden camped one
day at the foot of Tempe Butte and watched the swollen river race
past. Then he constructed a rude ferry to float his wagons across;
remained to transport other early settlers, to build the first local store,
walled with mud-plastered willows. More than this, he cleaned out
an old Indian canal and drew into it, from the Rio Salado, water with
which to turn the wheels of his primitive mill. The new Hayden mill,
erected on the same site, is no longer powered by an irrigation ditch
but it served, nonetheless, as one of our principal landmarks in the
recent aerial survey of Salt River valley.

Mormon settlers came, in 1878, to found the contented village of
Mesa; to recondition other abandoned Indian canals and thus save
their pioneer community an estimated $20,000 in labor alone. Part of
one such rebuilt ditch is still in use but, as elsewhere in the valley,
increase in population has brought about larger, more serviceable
canals with their far-flung network of laterals.

Inquiry elicits the information that there are no fewer than 1,200
miles of these modern watercourses. Most of them measure from
18 to 90 feet wide at the top and average about five feet in depth; sec-
tions of them have cost as much as $22,000 a mile to construct. But
the prehistoric canal builders, with barefooted helpers instead of
caterpillar tractors, with stone hoes as precursors of the steam shovel,
unhesitatingly set about the completion of comparable works. I pho-
tographed one aboriginal canal north of Mesa that stands today 66 feet
wide and 8 feet deep. It led from the Rio Salado far across the valley ;
as the river cut its channel below the canal floor, the useless ditch
165

SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, I930

; (upes[eH
‘S ppo Aq ydes8ojoyg) ‘Ng eduoy, Ivou TAN
SuapAep{ je [eued uPIpUy] pouolnipuosdy— zl “1

‘S PpO Aq yde1s0j0y J ) WYSIy Aep-put

]JoM3903S '¥SS pue (}fo]) UsIzqo

q “ynol

Cupes[eH
eB Joy Suttedoid
uz NEI

166 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

was replaced by another which connected with a new intake, farther
up stream. Such substitutions were necessitated by altered conditions
in prehistoric times no less than today.

Modern irrigation canals and the industry they symbolize have done
most to erase from central Arizona former vestiges of that native
civilization which once prospered there. The sad ruins of aboriginal
homes have been leveled with their neighboring fields; the ditches
which once watered those fields have been filled or scraped away.
Where Indian farmers eight or ten hundred years ago cultivated gar-
dens of beans, maize and squashes, vast acres of cotton, lettuce and
melons are now harvested. Neat orchards of dates and grapefruit
flourish where catclaw and mesquite stretched their spiny branches
only a generation ago. The diabolical Apache has been tamed if not
conquered. Bow-legged cowboys, garbed according to the latest fash-
ion notes from Hollywood, ride herd on eastern “ dudes.” Attractive
dwellings and sumptuous winter resorts, with green lawns and flower-
bordered walks have replaced the mud-walled habitations of the
ancient folk.

As one looks down from the air upon this Paradise that 1s Salt
River valley today, one is impressed first of all by the orderly habits
of mankind. At least there is a semblance of order, from a height of
2,000 feet or more. Long, straight roads on which autos slither away
like headless roaches; brown and yellow fields all nicely squared;
orange trees that seem as tiny pellets of dark green, patiently arranged,
row upon row; little cubed houses, fringed with flat green things.

Reaching across these fields and under these houses, light or dark
streaks mark former prehistoric Indian canals which only the avia-
tor may readily detect. Silt deposited in those old ditches shows
dark brown against the drab desert soil; pale yellow lines remain
where embankments have been smoothed away. Slight differences in
vegetation, imperceptible when close at hand, take on color variations
that enable one at a considerable height to retrace works which other-
wise have been wholly effaced.

The blue Army plane glides down from the clouds and back to port
with numbed crew and empty cameras. Camel Back Mountain squats
complacently at one side and looks out across the valley where such
momentous changes have taken place within memory of men still
living. Squaw Peak lifts her unkempt bulk to frown upon this new
civilization, as she did upon the old. A setting sun momentarily gilds
the giant sahuaro whose long, fingered shadows point eastwardly to
rugged mountain ranges whence flow the life-giving waters of the Gila
and the Rio Salado.
MOUNDS OF THE VANISHED CALUSA INDIANS
OF FLORIDA

By ME We Sie TRIEDNG,
Chief, Bureau of American Ethnology

When the Spaniards first visited the west coast of Florida early
in the sixteenth century, the region from Tampa Bay southward to
the Keys was occupied by the Calusa Indians. At this time they were
an important tribe, but in common with the other aboriginal Indians
of Florida they disappeared rapidly upon contact with the whites. Un-
fortunately no early traveler has left an adequate description of this
interesting group. As a result we must depend almost entirely upon
the results of archeological investigations in reconstructing their mode
of living.

It was for the purpose of continuing such researches that the writer
visited Florida during February, March, and April of 1930. Through
the kindness of Mr. Lee Parish, the writer was enabled to accompany
him on his yacht Esperanza through the intricate channels of the Ten
Thousand Islands, where a number of old village sites were located
and excavations conducted on a typical southern Calusa mound on
Horr’s Island. Numerous trade objects of European manufacture
discovered in course of the excavations helped to confirm the writer’s
previous view that the mounds of the Ten Thousand Island district
are probably the most recent in Florida. It was in this hidden and
comparatively inaccessible region that the Calusa Indians finally re-
tired as a result of pressure from the north and here made their
last stand against encroaching civilization. Here and there among
the maze of keys comprising the Ten Thousand Islands is one which
has caught the wind-blown sand in such a manner as to build it up,
forming “ high ground ” above the level of the surrounding mangrove
swamps. Such localities were invariably utilized by the Indians as
places of abode, the height of the ground in most instances being con-
siderably augmented by the accumulation of shells and village débris.

On the east end of Horr’s Island is a rather extensive shell deposit
now overgrown with a dense underbrush. Three hundred yards to
the eastward of the village site is a sand burial mound 35 feet in
diameter and 7 feet in height. Working among dense clouds of mos-
quitoes and sand flies, we excavated a sector of the mound compris-
ing about one-third of its volume. Seven burials were encountered,

167
168 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

a en aa ree

Fic. 143.—Mr. Lee Parish standing beside our mosquito-infested camp on
Horr’s Island.

Fic. 144.—The sand mound at Safety Harbor looking toward the bay.
Before excavation the surface of the mound was covered with a dense
growth of trees and underbrush. In its original condition the mound was
13 feet high.
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1930 169

Fic. 145.—The large shell mound at Safety Harbor as it now appears
overgrown with vegetation. This flat-topped mound was once the substruc-
ture for an Indian temple.

Fic. 146—Where the waters of Tampa Bay are cutting away the village site
at Safety Harbor. Many relics were found along this stretch of beach.
170 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Fic. 147—Removing the top level of the Safety Harbor burial mound.
In this level several articles of European manufacture were discovered.

Fro. 148.—-As the burial mound appeared with excavations well under way.
To prevent caving, the mound was excavated by a series of trenches.
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1930 IL ZA

all within 3 feet of the surface. These were secondary interments and
in no instance was the skeleton complete. Objects accompanying the
burials were scarce, consisting only of glass beads, an unidentified iron
object with crude repoussé designs upon it, perforated Arca shells and
conch shell cups.

After completing the work in Ten Thousand Islands the writer
proceeded to Lacoochee, Florida, where a mound on the south bank
of the Withlacoochee River was excavated. Upon the completion of
this task a site was selected at Safety Harbor, at the head of Old
Tampa Bay, where excavations were undertaken on the property of

Fic. 149.—With the top of the mound removed. Showing the method of
excavation of the Safety Harbor burial mound. The men are standing on
an ancient ash bed at the base of the structure.

Col. Thomas Palmer, to whose interest is due the preservation of this
interesting mound group. Permission was generously given to the
Bureau for the excavation of the large burial mound.

The principal mound of the group is a large, flat-topped shell mound
with precipitous sides. The waters of the bay have gradually en-
croached upon the site until the northern and eastern edges of the
mound are but a few yards from the water. Extending eastward from
the mound is a long sand spit which was formerly dry land and the
site of part of the village to which the mound belonged. Fifty yards
west of the large mound is a small shell mound about 7 feet high,
while 50 yards west of this is a low circular shell mound 45 feet in

diameter.
12
172 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Four hundred yards to the west of the large mound is a sand burial
mound. This mound had been considerably dug over on the surface
by pot hunters, but it was so large that none of the diggers had pene-
trated very far. Just east of the mound was a deep circular depression
from which the material was taken for its construction. The complete
excavation of this mound showed that it had been raised by gradual
stages, the burials being of a secondary nature and placed without
order. Over 100 burials were removed and a considerable archeo-
logical collection obtained. The presence of such articles as a silver
tubular bead and an iron ax with burials in the top portion of the
mound showed that the latter stages were post-Columbian. No such
objects were found in the lower levels of the mound, where artifacts
of any kind were rare. Pottery, except for a few shards, was found
only on the surface at the base of the mound where food bowls had
evidently been placed as offerings, without interring them.

From the evidence gathered from the mound and village site it is
probable that this village was occupied at the time De Soto visited
Tampa Bay and continued to be inhabited for a considerable period
subsequently. Because of the fact that it bridges the period between
the historic and the prehistoric, it is of unusual interest to archeology.
ARCHEOLOGICAL RECONNAISSANCE IN TEXAS
AND NEVADA

By M. W. STIRLING,
Chief, Bureau of American Ethnology

An important area marginal to the well-known culture centers of
the pueblo section of the Southwest is the so-called Big Bend region
of Texas. During the latter half of July, 1930, the writer went to
Marfa, Texas, for the purpose of examining a number of caves which
had been reported to the Bureau of American Ethnology from that
region. Through the kindness of Mr. L. F. Curl of the Department
of Agriculture, it was possible to visit all of the more promising locali-
ties within a radius of 30 miles from Marfa. Several caves containing
pictographs were examined in the vicinity of Limpia Canyon north
of Marfa, and on the Knight ranch 18 miles southwest of Valentine
a number of very interesting caves were examined and selected as sites
for excavation in the near future.

Leaving Texas the writer proceeded to Deeth, Nevada, where in
company with Mr. William Murdock a number of caves and archeo-
logical sites were examined in the territory lying between the Ruby
and Jarbidge Mountains. On the west side of Marys River, about 10
miles north of Deeth, a low flat-topped hill about 75 yards wide and
200 yards long rises from the sagebrush plain. It is capped by a con-
glomerate rock which has been undercut by the river so as to form
a number of rock shelters, most of which are now almost entirely
filled with débris. Most of these are smoke-blackened and show abun-
dant evidences of habitation. About 10 yards below the largest of the
shelters is a large flowing spring. A test pit dug in the floor of this
cave revealed fragments of badly decayed matting, burned bones,
flint and obsidian rejects. The flat top of the hill is littered with arrow-
heads, flint implements and rejects.

Several miles northwest of this site in the midst of a large bowl
of barren desert hills stands a giant geyser cone about 300 feet in
diameter. The Ute Indians of the region have the tradition that in the
old days captives were disposed of by throwing them down the crater
of this cone into the boiling water which still fills the throat of the
cave. The geyser is no longer active as the water has broken through
at the base, where a large hot spring now flows.

173
174 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Fic. 150.—Cave formerly occupied by Indians on the headwaters of the
Bruneau River in northeastern Nevada.

Fic. 151.—Hot Spring Butte, a giant geyser cone on Marys River, Nevada.
‘syoafer Arend oie *MOJaq Joo} OL Ja}eM Surproq

punois oy} UO soyRY o}IYM 94, “SpeayMor1Ie pue SIATUH 94} OUT uO; ePd [eInzeu sty} Wor; Woy} Surpiny Aq
BULINJORJNULUL OJ [BLLeJeU pouleiqo SuULIPU] oY} 2404H SaAndes yo pasodsip suRIPUT a3 ay) APIoWOg ‘ayNg
‘epeaoN “‘Ayuno) oyfy ur Arienb yedQ— esi “S14 Suridg JOT JO 10}e19 94} UMOP SuTyoo[—'zSI “9Iy

175

SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, I930

176 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Northward from this point the watershed between the Snake River
and the Humbolt is crossed. Here on the headwaters of the Bruneau
River several caves were visited. In the vicinity of Coyote Lakes a
very interesting outcrop of white opal was discovered. This had been
intensively quarried by the Indians. Most of the implements dis-
covered for many miles around appear to have been made of material
from this quarry or from obsidian obtained from the lava beds farther
to the north. The entire region, which is well watered and abundantly
supplied with game, made an ideal environment for the Indian, except-
ing for the one drawback of a very severe winter climate.
A PREHISTORIC VILLAGE ON THE ZUNI RESER-
VATION, NEW MEXICO

By FRANK H. H. ROBERTS, JR.,
Archeologist, Bureau of American Ethnology

One of the most interesting groups of small house remains which
thus far has come to light in the Southwest was uncovered by the
writer in western New Mexico during the summer of 1930. The ruins
are located 16 miles northeast of the Indian village of Zuni, on the
Zuni Reservation, at the juncture of Red Paint and Nutria canyons.
Three communal dwellings and two large ceremonial chambers or
great kivas comprise the cluster. Although numerous investigations
and extensive explorations have taken place in that region since it was
first traversed by Coronado and his adventurous soldiery in 1540, few
seem to have observed and no one has recorded the existence of these
particular ruins. They were virtually unknown to the white inhabi-
tants in the vicinity and most of the Indians were not aware of their
presence. In contrast to numerous other house and village remains on
the reservation, there is no Zufi name for this group.

That the ruins escaped notice for so long a time may be attributed to
their inconspicuous nature. Lying on the talus at the foot of a series
of low cliffs the stone and grass-covered mounds appeared, unless
closely observed, to be a part of the natural formation (fig. 154).
The writer found them while conducting a reconnaissance on the res-
ervation during the latter part of May. Their possibilities were so
alluring that steps were immediately taken to have the permit which
had been issued for another site changed to allow investigations at this
place. The Department of the Interior, upon the recommendation of
its archeologist, readily acceded to the request, and after a camp had
been established excavations were started.

When the season was brought to a close late in September two of
the houses and a number of ceremonial chambers had been excavated
and three refuse mounds had been thoroughly explored for burials
(figs. 155, 156, and 157). The larger of the two houses had contained
64 rooms and 3 average size circular ceremonial chambers or kivas, and
had a great kiva joined to its southern side. South of the main build-
ing and completely subterranean in character were four more cere-
monial chambers. The smaller of the two structures had contained

177
178 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Fic. 154.—Site at the beginning of excavations. Camp of expedition in the
backeround.

a neath gs ee oa
ees

es ag wr
ES sin se ta

ee
: 4 ee

Fic. 155.—Same view as figure 154 taken at the end of the season. Large
structure in foreground and small house at right center of picture. Two
great kivas appear in central part of the photograph.
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, I930 179

only 20 rooms and in contrast to its larger neighbor had no circular
chambers. Lying in the court formed by the two buildings, and com-
pletely detached from them, was the second great kiva. South of it
was the mound covering the third house, which had been a very small
dwelling (fig. 158). It was not possible to excavate the isolated great
kiva, but its walls were traced in order that the size could be deter-
mined and the structure properly plotted on the map of the site. Only
one room was excavated in the small structure to the south. This was
sufficient to indicate that the building had been of the same general
character as the other small dwelling.

The largest of the houses shows only 60 rooms on the ground plan
(fig. 158). The four additional chambers constituted a second story
in the central portion of the building. The rest of the structure had
been but a single story in height. Evidence showed that it had not
been erected as a complete unit and that it was not occupied in its
entirety at any time. The central block and great kiva constituted the
original part of the structure. The east and west wings and the series
of chambers south of the main block and east of the great kiva were
subsequent additions. Masonry in the walls of the later portions was
inferior to that in the old section and the outlines of the rooms are
so irregular that it would seem that they may have been built by a
different group of people. Walls in the original section were con-
structed of well dressed stones, long and tabular in form, and are
characterized by alternating thick and thin courses. This feature
is one which is outstanding in some of the ruins in the Chaco Canyon
85 miles northeast of the Zuni district. The walls in the later addi-
tions were formed from large blocks of stone, not particularly well
shaped for the purpose, and were not carefully laid. A considerable
part of the older section was abandoned after completion of the newer
units. This was evidenced by the fact that several of the rooms and
two of the kivas were completely filled with refuse of the kind which
accumulates around an occupied village.

The ceremonial chambers dug into the earth in front of the struc-
ture appeared to have belonged to the later sections of the building.
Both these and the ones located within the mass of the house are of
interest because they show a decided northern characteristic in the
deep niche or recess at the southern side. Two of the kivas were
found to contain features which thus far have been observed in only
a very few examples of small ceremonial chambers. They are long,
rectangular pits or vaults at the west side of the room (fig. 161).
There is no satisfactory explanation as to their purpose and the Zuni
180 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Fic. 156.—Large ruin from the east end. One of the great kivas at left
center of picture.

Fic. 157.—Portion of the small ruin.
2 Reruse ’
\
Moun
—_— 5
if
/ Great Kiva
No. 2
WALLS TRACED, CONTRAL
PART NOT CRCAVATCO
\
My \
aK heme \
a ay
5
4 Reruse
mR Mone NanEr —,
ne Wi if
Z CA
ad ex
ee iS
C= 5)
! LARGE BOWLDERS
so
Scale FEET
ri
7?
q Re
i
Ay,

SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1930

MAP OF RUINS AT MOUTH OF RED PAINT CANYON

Fic. 158.—Plan of the house group.

Reruse Mou

SS

rE
ny

ie

181

hy
ie
ante pee oy
v?¢

O

Ne DERS

Og

Thayne”

t
&
182 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

could give no reason for their presence. Similar vaults form one of
the typical elements in great kivas but are not common in the lesser
chambers.

The small house did not give evidence of growth stages as distinct
as those observed in the large building. It did show, however, that a
fairly small structure had been enlarged from time to time by the
erection of additional rooms. The walls, like those in the later por-
tions of the large structure, had been built of cubical blocks of stone.
3ut in contrast the material in this building had been worked and
shaped to a greater degree and more care had been expended in the
construction. The dwelling may have been erected by the same group
which built the later portions of the large structure, but they were
more particular about results in this instance. The lack of ceremonial
chambers in the block of the building, as well as their absence in the
earth outside, presents a perplexing problem. One explanation for
the condition is that the people from this dwelling may have joined
those in the large structure in the performance of sacred rites and for
that reason did not construct chambers of their own.

The finding of two great kivas is significant. They demonstrate
that the type had a wider distribution than has heretofore been sus-
pected and are another indication of a Chacoan element in the com-
munity. Investigations in the Southwest have shown that such struc-
tures are always associated with some form of that culture. Great
Kiva No. I was completely excavated, and it revealed all of the
essential characteristics of such a building. Because of this it may
be supposed that they also were present in the other one. Great Kiva
No. 2 is the largest yet discovered. Casa Rinconada in the Chaco
Canyon has long been regarded preeminent among super ceremonial
houses, but it must yield to the one in this group. Great Kiva No. 2
averages 78 feet in diameter while Casa Rinconada is only 72 feet
across. Great Kiva No. 1 is larger than many great kivas. Its
average diameter is 55 feet. These super kivas represent a tremendous
amount of labor on the part of people equipped only with stone im-
plements and must have been of great importance to them. The
exact function of such structures is not known but it 1s probable that
they were dedicated to the performance of major communal cere-
monies whereas the lesser observances took place in the small circular
chambers. Two great kivas in a community as small as this might
imply that the ceremonial side of its life was overemphasized. It is
possible, however, that this was the religious center for the whole
district. Within a radius of several miles are many house sites, none
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1930 183

Fic. 159.—Starting the excavation of the large ruin.

Fic. 160.—Removing débris from the small house.
184 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

of which indicates the presence of a large ceremonial structure. Con-
sequently it may be postulated that all of the people in the valley
gathered here during periods of exceptional liturgic importance and
participated in the religious rites appertaining to the super kivas.
The excavations yielded, in addition to the information on house
types, 400 specimens of the people’s handicraft. The collection
includes pottery vessels, stone and bone tools, ornaments, and a num-
ber of stone images. The pottery consists of two groups, painted

Frc. 161.—One of the ceremonial chambers in the large ruin. Portion of
subfloor vault shown in lower right corner of picture. Fire pit and ventilator
opening in front of Indian boy.

and unpainted wares. The latter comprise the culinary jars. The
painted vessels are of the black-on-white and black-on-red varieties.
Both classes contain specimens typical of the Chaco Canyon wares and
of the ceramics of the Upper Gila region to the south. Other ex-
amples indicate that the characteristics of the two cultures were
blended to form a local ceramic type. Of the other groups of objects
the stone images are the most interesting. They are the heads of
animals but probably are only symbolical, as the creatures depicted
cannot be accurately identified. They may have been the symbols of
the clans which dwelt there. This is suggested by the fact that they
were found in the small ceremonial chambers.
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1930 185

Fic. 162.—Group of prehistoric pictures on cliff back of large ruin.

Fic. 163—Modern drawings made by Zuni Indians.
186 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

The specimens were obtained from the houses and the graves.
Burials were for the most part located in the refuse mounds. The
remains of 60 individuals were uncovered and in all but one instance
funerary offerings were found near the head. In the case of the
single exception the pottery accompanying the body had been placed
at the feet. This was probably due to an error and the unintentional
reversing of the body bundle, because all of the other interments had
the head to the east while here it was to the west.

Additional examples of the handiwork of the inhabitants of the
community are to be observed along the cliffs to the north of the large
structure. Here a large number of figures were cut and pecked into
the rocks. They occur singly and in groups. One cluster is especially
interesting because of the variety of things represented (fig. 162).
In addition to strictly geometrical patterns, there are numerous quad-
rupeds, a humpbacked flute player, a human hand, and a great diver-
sity of serpent symbols. Not far from this prehistoric series of rock
drawings is a group of pictures made by some of the present day
Zuni. The contrast between the two sets of figures is striking. The
modern examples are done in color and are quite lifelike in char-
acter (fig. 163).

Asa result of the summer’s investigations it is possible to state that
this community belonged to the great period of the prehistoric Pueblos,
the era which is designated Pueblo III in southwestern chronology.
The houses were probably built and occupied late in the 12th century
A. D. Evidence also shows that there was a fusion of two groups of
people at this location. One came from the Chaco area in the north
and the other from the Upper Gila villages in the south. This is the
first time that a complete group belonging to this phase of Pueblo
development had been thoroughly excavated in the Zuni region and
the information obtained from it will be of considerable help in the
solution of problems pertaining to the district.
SLUDYING THE INDIANS “OF NEW MEXICO AND
CALIFORNIA

By JOHN P. HARRINGTON,
Ethnologist, Bureau of American Ethnology

The old dogma of the textbooks that the Pueblo Indians of New
Mexico and Arizona speak four stock languages unrelated with one
exception to other North American languages seems doomed to ulti-
mate abandonment according to indications revealed in a careful com-
parison of the Taos and Zuni languages made by me in New Mexico
as part of a general plan of reexamining these languages. The
work in 1930 was a continuation of researches begun the year be-
fore and described in “ Explorations and Field-Work of the Smith-
sonian Institution in 1929.” Working with Natchipanih, an excellent
informant if one already knows a little of the Zuni language, for
only his English is deficient and he does not hesitate in giving to his
friends the most sacred religious terms, a Taos dictionary was worked
over into the Zuni tongue, thus obtaining voluminous material for
comparisons—and contrasts. The Zuni language is spoken, at pres-
ent at least, in a single dialect, and by a population of some 1,600
individuals, nearly all of whom live in a single city as quaint and iso-
lated as Lhasa, the old Tibetan capital. This city is called Ciwin’ah,
and one of its inhabitants is called Ciwih (Ciw’a:tchih, dual;
‘A: ciwih, triplural ).

The language is about as harsh and clear sounding as German; its
alphabet consists of 35 letters, including the five well-known vowels,
pronounced as in Spanish, varieties of stops with h after them and
with simultaneous choking in the larynx as well as the ordinary Span-
ish variety, k, n and ng inflected with y position as well as the ordinary
kind, and a Welch Il, written by the Polish character of 1 with a swipe
through it. Examples of the clean-sounding words of this language
are Towayalanneh, name of the famous mesa to be seen south of Zuni;
and H6’°n’a: wona: wil’onah, God, or better Fate, one of the religious
words, literally Our Holder of the Trails. Although it was not neces-
sary for phonetic exactness, this work was supported by the obtaining
of several hundred kymographic tracings on sooted paper, which at
least give the satisfaction of showing for instance that a sound heard
as long had such or such a duration in units of the second. Some

13 187
188 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Fic. 164.—Mrs. Phoebe Maddux (ImkYanvan), my aged Karuk informant,
with her grandchildren. (Photograph by J. P. Harrington.)

Peet
er

Fic. 165.—La Brea, the mineral oil lake between San Juan and Gilroy, in
which wild animals used to get mired and perish. Don José Mondragon, son-
in-law of Dofia Ascension, shown standing by the tar pits. (Photograph by
J. P. Harrington.)
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, I9Q30 189

of these tracings were assembled to form a Zuni alphabet, an album
of the sounds’ own pictures.

The work established what had long been suspected by me, that
there is a definite but distant genetic connection between the Taos
and Zuni forms of speech, and that this connection also extends to the
language of Acoma and other Keresan dialects. Whether anything still

Fic. 166.—Mrs. Fannie Orcutt, aged Karuk Indian, Salmon
Billy’s younger sister, holding her white great-grandson.
(Photograph by J. P. Harrington. )

more closely related to the Zuni will be discovered in the great field of
American languages remains for the future to reveal. The phonetic
systems of Taos and Zuni and many of the grammatical features are
as much alike as children of the same family, and come from the same
cradle of old Indian linguistic inheritance.

On the Klamath River in northern California, in a wilderness of
soapstone formation mountains overgrown with conifers and brush
Igo SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

of a hundred species known to the Indians, I did further work with
Imk’anvan (Mrs. Phoebe Maddux) on the customs of the Karuk
people of the lower central section of the river, and especially with
Mrs. Fannie Orcutt, younger sister of the famous Salmon Billy, the
Indian who went around with Stephen Powers when he was collect-
ing information for the Smithsonian in the early seventies of the past
century, nearly 60 years ago. This sister of Billy’s is now more than
8o years old, and evidently possesses the knowledge that the deceased
Billy had, and along certain lines doubtless more. Mrs. Orcutt was
diligently interviewed along the lines of old family history and gossip
and in the field of Indian ceremonial doings as well. She has in her
possession several old relics, including a black flint blade, to which
great importance was attached until I learned that one of her sons
had made it and many others, some of which are doubtless now
treasured by collectors and museums, with modern tools, whereupon
my appreciation only increased at the uniqueness of the situation.
Another unique situation in Mrs. Orcutt’s family is that this family
typifies the great process which is everywhere going on of amalgama-
tion of the Indian race into the white. Each successive generation is
“twice as white’’ as the preceding, and Mrs. Orcutt requested that
I take her picture holding her little great-grandson (fig. 166), amused
at the situation that this normal appearing white child had her blood.

Field-work attempting to rescue what can still be obtained from the
wreck of former Indian custom and language at San Juan Bautista,
in central California, not far south of San Francisco near the coast,
was accomplished in the very nick of time, for I arrived while Dona
Ascension Solorsano, last speaker of the language, was still alive,
and although very ill, survived long enough to enable me to put on
paper practically all that she knew about her people. In fact, Dona
Ascension was the best person who could have been obtained as
informant even several years ago, for she had the qualifications of a
truthful heart, a vivid memory, and lifelong curiosity about Indian
ways and things, many of which had passed out of use even before
the lifetime of her mother. The peculiar amount of knowledge which
survived in her was due to the fact that her father and mother talked
the language together throughout their lives, each having lived more
than 80 years. Dona Ascension lived with them practically all her life.

Donia Ascension was known as a doctora or curandera of the sick,
for she treated cases of all kinds during all the latter part of her life
at her little home in Gilroy, near San Juan, which was known as her
hospital. Indian and Spanish Californian herb remedies were largely
employed, and from her and her old nurse, Dona Antonia Sanchez,
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1930 IgI

Fic. 167.—San Juan Bautista Mission, taken from the “ Bajillo” or low-
lands east of the Mission. The old Indian cemetery, overgrown with gigantic
olive trees, where lies the body of Dona Ascension, is seen on the slope be-
tween the Mission church and the plain. (Photograph by J. P. Harrington.)

Fic. 168.—Early etching of San Juan Bautista Mission by Henry Chapman
Ford, looking from the southwest. (Photograph by J. P. Harrington.)
INSTITUTION

SMITHSONIAN

(uojsuliey “gd “f Aq ydeas
-OJOYq ) “UINI dy} JO JUOIF Ul Surpur}s st ‘uoIsUISY BUOCT
jo Joqysneppuess ‘eiiaidy{ “[ eYeyY ssipy ‘worssipy
uenf ueg jo jref 10 | ozoqeed,, plo ay,—oZr “DI

(uoysurepy “gq “f Aq ydessojoyg) ‘aamyord ayy jo
JoJU99 9Y} UT sdeds Patea]D ay} Je seM YURI IY J “syRad
9} FO UO SuIMOYsS ‘eUY JUS dp sOYyeoIg SO] 1B JoyJOU
pue Joyzyey SuoIsusdsy euod Jo YURI sy .—69I “DIF

‘

SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1930 193

I obtained accounts of the treatment given for some 137 different dis-
eases and ailments. These accounts were obtained, as was all the work
done, in California Spanish text along with all the Indian that she
could recall. The memory of the cures and kindnesses extended to

Fic. 171.—‘* Abuhas”’ or needles, the divining rods, carried
by members of Dona Ascension’s family when we went on
our expeditions to visit various Indian places. Used for
locating minerals and buried treasures. (Photograph by
J. P. Harrington. )

the sick by this poor woman will long survive in the families of those
who were benefited.

Other material obtained consisted of Indian myths, Spanish tales,
voluminous and unique material on early Indians and the lore and his-
tory of the Mission, and accounts of artifacts made. A long list of
plants with scientific identifications is closely related to the medicine
194 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

practices. An animal list, in the preparation of which I was assisted
by Dr. C. Hart Merriam, who had also worked with the San Juan
Indians, gives descriptions and lore about the animals as well as their
names. Accounts of several mineral products were also obtained.

Dofia Ascension survived long enough for me to do full duty to the
recording of her information, and the material is at the present writ-
ing practically ready for the printer with the exception of some sec-
tions of the linguistic information. The information is of the great-
est importance for understanding the ethnology of a section of Cali-
fornia from which little has been recorded, for the history of San
Juan Mission, and for putting on record the San Juan language and
the Spanish language as spoken by San Juan Indians.
INDIAN LANGUAGE STUDIES IN LOUISIANA

By JOHN R. SWANTON,
Ethnologist, Bureau of American Ethnology

More languages were spoken within the boundaries of the present
State of Louisiana when it was settled by the French than in any simi-
lar area north of the Rio Grande and between the Rocky Mountains
and the Atlantic. —The number was even increased at a later date by
the entrance of several tribes from points east of the Mississippi. In
consequence Louisiana has always been one of the most interesting
regions in the eastern United States for students of American Indian
languages. Systematic work was begun here by Dr. A. S. Gatschet of
the Bureau of American Ethnology about 1880 and it has been con-
tinued at intervals ever since. In 1907 the writer took up Dr. Gat-
schet’s work and has visited the State a number of times, but until the
introduction of the automobile it was difficult to reach all corners of
it or to say positively how many speakers of the aboriginal tongues
still survived. The past summer, however, through the kind coopera-
tion of Miss Caroline Dormon, of Chestnut, Louisiana, a leader in
movements for the conservation of the natural resources and antiqui-
ties of this commonwealth, and her sister Mrs. Miller, who acted as
chauffeur in the various expeditions which were undertaken, nearly
all groups of Indians in that part of Louisiana west of the Missis-
sippi of whom knowledge could be obtained were visited and accu-
rate information was secured regarding the remaining ethnological
possibilities of the section.

‘

The language of the Atakapa or “ man-eating Indians,” formerly
spoken on the coast between Vermilion Bayou and Galveston, Texas,
in two dialects, is absolutely extinct, except as the knowledge of a
few words survives in the memory of one old woman at Sulphur.
Chitimacha, which was in use by an interesting tribe about Grand
Lake, is known to but three or possibly four individuals, most of
whom live at Charenton, a picturesque old Creole town on Bayou
Teche. Their cane basketry industry is the best that survives in the
eastern part of our country, and its preservation was largely due to
Mrs. Sidney Bradford of Avery Island, who induced the Indians to
discard store dyes in favor of their old native colors derived from

195
196 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Fic. 172.—Basketry of Indians living at Charenton, a picturesque old Creole
town on Bayou Teche, Louisiana.
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, I930 IQ7

black walnut and a species of dock (fig. 172). From Benjamin Paul,
chief of this little band, small additions were made to the writer’s
collection of folklore and native texts.

Choctaw was formerly spoken by some small tribes along the Mis-
sissippi and 1s still used by several scattered families, one of which was
visited, but it is preserved by several thousand Indians in Oklahoma
and Mississippi and is in no immediate danger of extinction.

The Tunica, who have occupied a small reservation near Marksville
for over a hundred years, may properly be regarded as Louisiana
Indians since they hunted and boiled down salt in the northern part
of the State from the earliest times of which we have any knowledge,
though their towns were usually just beyond the Mississippi. Their
reservation contains remnants of other tribes to which it furnished a
haven of refuge from the advancing white settlements. Among these
tribes were the Biloxi from the Gulf coast of Mississippi, and the
Ofo or Ofogoula, a people associated historically with Yazoo River
but traceable as far north and east as Cincinnati. With them were also
descendants of the Avoyel (from whom the parish of Avoyelles re-
ceives its name), the oldest known inhabitants of the country and said
to be a branch of the famous Natchez Indians. The Avoyel tongue
itself is extinct but the blood of the tribe is preserved in the veins of
Earnest Pierrette (fig. 173) along with strains of Tunica and Biloxi.
Since his wife was an Ofo woman, their daughters are descended
from four tribes belonging to three distinct linguistic families. From
the mother, Rosa Pierrette, the writer collected in 1908 a considerable
vocabulary which showed its affinity with the Siouan linguistic family,
including such well-known peoples as the Sioux, Osage, Omaha, and
Crow. This fact also helped to identify the tribe with an ancient
people formerly living in Ohio. When Rosa Pierrette died, about
15 years ago, the Ofo language died with her. The extinct Avoyel
tongue was probably nearly like that of the Natchez still known to two
or three Indians in Oklahoma.

Earnest Pierrette himself is one of the few individuals who can still
speak Tunica fluently. Another, Sesostrie Yauchicant (fig. 174),
whose name his American neighbors have “shortened” to Sam
Young, was for many years chief of the tribe, and he proved to be a
splendid informant, possessed of the ability, rather rare among
Indians, of dictating texts slowly in his own language. The stories in
Tunica and English obtained from him, while for the most part short,
are a valuable addition to our too limited knowledge of the tongue
and traditions of these Indians.
Fic. 173.—Earnest Pierrette, one of the few remaining speakers of the
Tunica language, also descended from the Avoyel and Biloxi tribes. His
wife, Rosa Pierrette, was the last who knew the Ofo tongue. (Photograph
by Miss C. Dormon.)

Raber

Fic. 174.—Sesostrie Yauchicant or “Sam Young,” one of the last speakers of
Tunica and the writer’s principal informant. (Photograph by Miss C. Dormon. )
1908
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1930 199

When the two men just mentioned are gone, Tunica also will proba-
bly go, but the speech of the Koasati who live near Kinder (fig. 175
will have a considerably longer lease of life since it is spoken by 60 or
70 individuals of both sexes. The writer worked about 10 days with
Jackson Langley, chief of this group, collecting bits of information
regarding the ancient life of his people, native texts, and a consid-
erable vocabulary of the language. Although an interesting variety of
speech, it is not so unique as either Chitimacha or Tunica, for it is

Fic. 175.—A group of boys belonging to the Koasati Indian tribe.
(Photograph by Miss C. Dormon.)

a sister tongue to Alabama which is still used by about 200 Indians,
and is also related to Choctaw and Creek. The Alabama and Koasati
Indians both came from the State which bears the name of the former,
and they are quite late intruders west of the Mississippi River.

From the above narrative it is evident that the work of the ethnolo-
gist in Louisiana is urgent, and that it must soon be replaced by that
of the archeologist for whom the State may prove to be an even richer
field. Near the Tunica reservation at Marksville is a group of mounds
which was partially explored by Mr. Gerard Fowke for the Bureau
200 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

of American Ethnology some years ago, A few interesting pots were
obtained at that time and the writer was able to add some fragments,
picked up during his visit to the site. The whole northeastern por-
tion of the State is dotted with mounds and other marks of aboriginal
occupancy calling for systematic and extended examination.
FIELD RESEARCHES AMONG THE SIX NATIONS
OF THE IROQUOIS

By J. N. BB. HEWITT,
Ethnologist, Bureau of American Ethnology

To resume his field researches among the tribal remnants of the
famous Six Nations of the Iroquois, the writer left Washington
May 8, 1930. The war of the American Revolution wrecked the
solidarity of the famous League of the Iroquois, consequently the
several tribes composing it became separated into a number of
divisions which finally settled in various places—some on reserva-
tions in the State of New York, others in Canada—so it is not
strictly accurate to speak of the Six Nations of Canada or of New
York State. Only portions of the Six Nations dwell in Canada on
several reservations, while in the State of New York a remnant of
the Onondaga tribe, the several sections of the Seneca, and the rem-
nant of the Tuscarora of New York, reside, maintaining a dubious
form of tribal organization, but not as coordinate units of the League
of the Iroquois, for the Mohawk, the Oneida, and the Cayuga tribes
no longer have a tribal organization in the State of New York.

On the Grand River in Ontario, Canada, and elsewhere in Canada,
other portions of the Mohawk, the Oneida, the Onondaga, the Seneca,
the Cayuga, and the Tuscarora tribes are found. Those on the Grand
River Grant occupy a reservation of about 56,000 acres, in large part
of very fine agricultural land, and these tribes up to the year 1924
maintained a semblance of the old government of the League of the
Iroquois.

But the majority of the members of these Grand River tribes had
become so indifferent to the institutions of the League—its institu-
tions, its customs, and its laws, and regulations—that they were no
longer able to maintain an efficient tribal organization for the estab-
lishment of order and justice, and therefore much disorder and law-
lessness resulted. These conditions finally became such that in 1924
the Canadian Government wisely abrogated the remaining semblance
of the ancient government of the League of the Iroquois. By this
legal change of status of these tribes the famous League of the Iro-
quois came to an end on this reservation after enduring for 375 years.
It was instituted by the statesmanship and the altruistic labors of

201
INSTITUTION

SMITHSONIAN

‘stonboiy

‘epeUrey ‘UONPAIISAY JIA pues

eo0Uag BsnAe) ‘uosqiryy ApsiepY uyof—Z.

‘

stonbory

‘epeuey ‘UONPAIISAY JOA pues
esnkey) ‘101UdS ‘ssaz{ qooef JorygQ—

gZI

2) as |

SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1930 203

Deganawida and Hiawatha for the purpose of establishing a state of
peace and harmony among men which through the forms of law
should cause the shedding of human blood to cease.

The organic units of an Iroquoian tribe were the Ohwachira, the
Clan, and the Phratry or Sisterhood of Clans; two or more Ohwachira
formed a Clan; one or more Clans formed a Phratry or Sisterhood of
Clans; and two Phratries or Sisterhoods of Clans constituted the tribe.
The organic units of the League were Phratries of tribes; two Phra-
tries of tribes constituted the League. The definition of these several

Fig. 178.—Chief Simeon Gibson, World War Veteran, Cayuga Seneca
Iroquois, Grand River Reservation, Canada.

organic units have come down to us in general terms, although they
should be specifically defined to give a full comprehension of their
structure. This deeper study of these units was a part of the writer’s
task this season.

It is among these people that one still finds today the very few
persons who retain a precarious hold on the fragmentary knowledge
of the complex institutions of the League of the Iroquois. And because
of the paucity and the dubiousness of this knowledge it is fast pass-
ing out of the thinking of the native general public.
204. SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Outside of translations of texts and the textual criticism of the
records, the writer had several important problems to solve. Of these
one was to determine the probable number of clans which functioned
in the first session of the Federal Council of the League of the Iro-
quois, and to obtain further information for a clearer definition and
description of the Ohwachira and the Clan in Iroquoian polity. In
regard to these matters there is much confusion in the literature.

No little mental effort is required to appraise fully and correctly the
dominant and fundamental character of the functions of the Oh-
wachira—the uterine brood or family—in the organic structure of
the tribal and the League organizations of the Iroquois peoples.

It is most important to bear in mind that the Ohwachira which
owned a male Federal Chiefship title was self-governing within the
scope of its rights and obligations. One of its important rights was
to select and install suitable executive officers, namely a Chieftainess
who was the Trustee for the public property, the rights, and the obhi-
gations, of the Ohwachira whose agent she was. She ranked as a
peer of the male Federal Chieftains of the League, and was e.-officio
a full member of the great Federal Council of the League, wherein
she could sit at will. Like the male Federal Chieftains of the League
she had assigned her by her own Ohwachira a male Chief Warrior
who was her executive aide and spokesman in public assemblies and
in the sessions of the Council of the League; she and he were chosen
and installed in the identical manner in which the male Federal Chief-
tains were.

With the advice and consent of the members of her own Ohwachira,
she was the official censor of the acts and the conduct of the male
Federal Chieftain who represented her Ohwachira in the Federal
Council of the League. And as spokeswoman for her Ohwachira she
could with the active support of her Chief Warrior Aide depose said
Federal Chieftain for just cause, but not before three admonitions
had been made to him to reform and repent of his errors. She and her
Chief Warrior Aide retained office only during good behavior.

This Chieftainess was entrusted with the very important duty also
of seeing that the Federal Chieftain of her Ohwachira had the loyal
support of its members, and to see that his larder at all times had the
provisions needful in receiving and in entertaining foreign official
visitors. It was also her duty to appoint such other minor function-
aries as civil and religious affairs demanded.

One of the problems calling for explanation is the fact that certain
clans, apart from the three stated to be common to all the tribes, had
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1930 205

Fic. 179.—A ferry-float across the Grand River on the Six Nations Indian
Reserve; it is propelled by the hands turning a toothed wheel over which
passes a chain fastened to the shore, at either end.

ay
.

Fic. 180.—The Onondaga Mountain, situated about 8 miles south of Syracuse,
New York; the Onondaga tribe received its name from this mountain.
206 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

no Federal representation in the Council of the League. Evidently
they had vicarious representation in the officers of some sister clan.

The Mohawk and the Oneida tribes had nine Federal Chiefships
respectively, equally apportioned among the three clans. But it is
found that the titles of Chiefship do not belong to the clan as a
whole. Certain Ohwachira (or uterine broods or families) within
the clan owned such titles, one such to every owning Ohwachira.

It is a well-known fact to careful students of the tribes of the Iro-
quois League and of cognate tribes that there is a perplexing dis-
crepancy in the number and in the names of the clans assigned to
these several tribes in the several lists found in the literature on the
subject. In the Mourner’s Chant of Welcome in the Ritual of Con-
dolence and Installation of the League, the Liturgy, after reciting a
long list of towns assigned to the Wolf, the Turtle, and the Bear
Clans, contains this brief statement: “‘ This was the number of the
Clans in ancient times.” These three clans are the only ones found
among the Mohawk and the Oneida tribes. The other tribes of the
original League, the Onondaga, the Seneca, and the Cayuga, have
these and five or six others.

This fact is noteworthy since the Mohawk tribe belongs to the Male
or Father tribal phratry, while the Oneida belongs to the Female or
Mother tribal phratry. Thus, it seems probable that these three clans
were the founding clans of the League and that therefore they were
primordial. The researches of the writer among the scattered rem-
nants of the Wyandot peoples disclose the remarkable fact that these
peoples had a like organization of the three clans, the Wolf, the Turtle,
and the Bear, each having three Ohwachira, and each Ohwachira pos-
sessing a Chiefship title, thus making nine Chieftains for the three
clans.

The writer had the satisfaction also of demonstrating conclusively
that the Chieftainesses of the several Ohwachira formerly bore of-
ficial personal names which corresponded with those of the male Fed-
eral Chieftains, like Tekari‘ho'ké™ and Hatyo™“hwa't‘ha. This sys-
tem of names has long been lost to the teachers of the Iroquois
peoples.

Attention was also devoted to the methods of preparing wampum
strings, for the purpose of determining whether the admixture of the
white and the purple beads in varying proportions was in accordance
with fixed rules. The writer was urged to do this because of the very
contradictory meanings assigned to a large collection of such strings
in his possession.
StUDMmsS OF THE Chk VENNE, KICKAPOO, AND
FOX

By TRUMAN MICHELSON,
Ethnologist, Bureau of American Ethnology

The Cheyenne and Kickapoo tribes of Oklahoma and the Fox of
Iowa formed the subjects of my field-studies during the summer of
1930. I left Washington for Oklahoma early in June, and first spent
a week of intensive study of Cheyenne linguistics, general ethnology,
and physical anthropology. The results of this may be briefly sum-
marized as follows: The statement made by me in 1912 in the 28th
Annual Report of the Bureau of American Ethnology, that Cheyenne
is a major group of the Algonquian stock, 1s valid. The thesis stated
by Sapir (J. des Américanistes de Paris, 1923, p. 46, footnote 1) that
Arapaho and Cheyenne should be grouped together in a single major
division of the Algonquian stock, is untenable. The phonetic shifts
of the two are too divergent, and their grammatical specializations
too great to permit such a view. Owing to the complex phonetic shifts
which exist, only a small percentage of the Cheyenne vocabulary thus
far can be rigorously proved to be Algonquian, but it is always pos-
sible that a larger percent actually is. Without a knowledge of the
shifts who would suspect that Fox poni “ cessation,’ Arapaho tein
(same meaning), and Cheyenne en (same meaning) all go back to the

‘

same archetype? So with discovery of more such shifts, more lexical
material may fall in line. It may be added that I discovered some
Algonquian grammatical traits hitherto unrecognized. The results of
the work in physical anthropology are rather interesting. The cephalic
index of 17 adult males averaged 82.55 which is rather higher than that
given by Boas (Z. f. Ethnologie, 1895), namely, 80.3 (57 subjects
being measured). I have nevertheless found out by calculation that the
difference is one which may be entirely due to random sampling. The
stature of 18 adult males, deducting 3.5 cm. for shoes, averages
170 cm. which is much lower than the average given by Boas. If,
however, a veritable giant, whom I suspected of having a little white
blood, had been included in my series, it would have raised the average.
Also a couple who were found to have other Indian blood than
Cheyenne, were excluded: had they been included, as both were
taller than 170 cm., the average would have raised. The auricular

207
208 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Fic. 181.—Frank Shawata. A Fox Indian of Iowa. He is an important
ceremonial leader. (Photograph by Michelson, 1930.)

Fic. 182.—Jewelry makers. Fox Indians of Iowa. (Photograph by
Michelson, 1930.)
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1930 209

bregmatic height of the head (Hrdlicka’s method), yielded but an
average of 130 mm. for 15 adult males. However, one subject was
distinctly very platycephalic; so this adversely affected the average,
and it should be remembered the series is small. The width of face of
20 adult males averaged 148 mm., a pretty good guarantee that only
fullbloods were measured.

Work among the Kickapoo was confined largely to mythology and,
to a lesser extent, social organization. The myths were obtained prac-

Fic. 183—Two Mexican Kickapoos, Okla-
homa. (Photograph by Michelson, 1930. )

tically exclusively in the current syllabic script which though deficient
in phonetic niceties, is nevertheless very practical. And myths obtained
in this manner from native informants are in much better literary style
than those obtained by dictation. Most of the material published pre-
viously by Jones (edited and translated by myself) was duplicated,
and a large body of new material collected. As I have mentioned pre-
viously (Explorations and Field-Work of the Smithsonian Institution
in 1929, p. 207), Kickapoo mythology is more northern than is Fox;
this season’s work confirmed this. The portion of Kickapoo mythology
210 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

which is still practically terra incognita is the ritualistic origin myths.
The conservative character of the Kickapoo is responsible for this.
I even failed to obtain the tale of the death of the culture-hero’s
younger brother. One informant admitted with obvious fear that he
knew it, but not sufficiently well to narrate. It has become clear that
among the Kickapoo of Oklahoma some gentes definitely belong to one
of the tribal dual divisions, others to the other; and a few gentes
are not strict. As descent is male, it follows that the tribal dual divi-
sion does not divide each gens as it does among the Fox.

The object of the trip among the Fox of Iowa was to restore one
Fox text phonetically, and to obtain some new texts (in the current
syllabic script ) on Fox ceremonials, in both which projects I was suc-
cessful. Conditions are rapidly changing from when I first was among
the Foxes in 1911. The fight against schooling was rampant at that
time. Ceremonial life is still very active, but the younger generation
are becoming sophisticated. Years ago this was not so, as the follow-
ing anecdote will show. On one occasion during field-work several
years ago, a young Indian man drove me to town. In the bank, where
I had an errand, I happened to notice that the barometer read * cy-
clone.” I hurried out, and, in spite of the protests of my Indian driver,
insisted upon going out to my residence, explaining that there was
going to be a big rain, although the sun was then shining brightly.
We drove out, but had barely reached the outskirts of Tama when
the sky became black, and a terrific storm was upon us. The worst
was over when we reached my residence, so I took my packages, and
started to go to the house. The Indian drove on, and then turned
back and beckoned to me. “* Mike,” he said, “ how did you know it
was going to rain?” I explained the workings of a barometer to him,
but he looked at me incredulously, almost with awe. Had I told him
that I had been blessed by the Thunder-birds, he would have under-
stood and believed me.
MONACAN SITES IN VIRGINIA
BYSDAVID T BUSEIN EEE Wik:

When the English colonists reached the shores of Virginia, early
in the seventeenth century, they found the country occupied by several
groups of tribes speaking different languages. [Extending westward
from the coast to the falls were numerous villages of the Powhatan
Confederacy. Beyond the falls, in the piedmont section of the pres-
ent state, lived Siouan tribes constituting two or more distinct groups.
Southward from the Potomac to the Rapidan were the Manahoacs ;
adjoining them and claiming the country as far as the valley of the
James were the Monacan tribes. In 1608 the latter occupied five large
villages, and although only two of the ancient towns were visited by
Europeans the names and locations of the remaining three were so
clearly stated by Indians that it was possible to indicate them on a map
prepared in 1612. The three villages which had been abandoned by
the native inhabitants before the country was entered by European
settlers, and consequently may never have been seen by the colonists,
were Rassawek, which stood at the confluence of the Rivanna and
James Rivers; Monahassanugh, on the left bank of the James just
below the present town of Norwood, Nelson County ; and Monasuka-
panough, on both banks of the Rivanna, a short distance above the
Southern Railway bridge, in Albemarle County.

The area, roughly triangular, bounded on two sides by the rivers
and on the third by the foothills of the Blue Ridge, with the three
native villages occupying the angles, was evidently a favorite hunt-
ing ground as is shown by the vast number of arrowpoints scattered
over the surface, as well as by traces of small camps often encountered
in the vicinity of springs or on the banks of the smaller streams. Many
sites have been examined by the writer during the past year and small
collections of typical stone objects formed. In the southern part of the
triangular area, a few miles from the left bank of the James, on both
sides of the line between Albemarle and Nelson Counties, are exten-
sive outcroppings of soapstone. Many pits, excavated by Indians, are
easily discerned, and quantities of broken bowls and bits of stone left
by the Indian artisan are scattered over the surface near the quarries.

Settlers entered the region just two centuries ago. Few Indians
remained. Game was abundant and even buffalo are known to have

14 21r
SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

to
rar
to

- as

Fic. 185.—Old log cabin south of Hardware River.
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1930 213

crossed the mountains from the westward. Log cabins soon occupied
the sites where mat-covered lodges had stood a generation before, and
roads soon followed the courses of the Indian trails through the dense
forests. Now, after the lapse of many years, traces of the early days
may often be found in secluded spots. Deserted cabins are frequently
encountered near old clearings, in some instances believed to be
‘“ Tndian fields,’ and sunken graves may usually be discovered near-by.
It is a region of much natural beauty, and beyond the valley of
the Rockfish the Blue Ridge attains an elevation of more than 3,500
feet above sea level.

Fra. 186.—A road in the Blue Ridge.

The most extensive site examined stands on the banks of the
Rivanna, believed to have been the village of Monasukapanough of
the Saponi and deserted by that tribe some time after 1608 and before
1670. It is a beautiful situation for a native village, divided by the
Rivanna and protected by encircling hills at the foot of which are
many large flowing springs. Corn was probably raised on part of the
low grounds where it is now grown by the present occupants of the
land. Numerous stone implements have been discovered on the sur-
face and quantities of pottery, broken into small bits by the plow dur-
ing the past years, have been recovered. No objects of European origin
214 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Fic. 187—Eastern portion of the site of Monasakapanough. The Rivanna
visible between trees on right.

Fic. 188.—Hardware River, east of Red Hill. Site of iron furnace
built in 1781.
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1930 2

Fic. 189—Arrowheads, etc., found on the surface about midway between
the sites of the two great native villages. These are made of white quartz.
The great majority are made of quartz and quartzite, a small proportion are
made of chert, jasper, and argilite. Two-thirds natural size.

on

216 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

have been found on the site, and nothing has been discovered to sug-
gest that the inhabitants of the village had come in contact with the
English settlements far eastward. Many of the implements recovered
from the site are crudely made, rough but serviceable, and are be-
lieved to represent the last of the stone age in this part of Virginia.
The small fragments of pottery vary greatly in texture, finish, and
decoration, but better examples may be secured later. The large burial
mound, examined and described by Jefferson soon after the Revolu-
tion, belonged to this village and stood near the right bank of the
Rivanna. Smaller sites which evidently belonged to the same people
have been discovered on the banks of the Rivanna both above and
below the great village. Material recovered from the village site on
the James, believed to have been occupied by the Tutelo, and desig-
nated Monahassanugh on the early map, resembles that found on the
Rivanna site. However there is a noticeable difference between this
and the objects encountered on the surface in many localities between
the sites of the two great native villages. The real significance of
this variation is not known; whether all should be attributed to the
same people has not yet been determined. This and other questions
may be solved during the coming season as work, now planned.
progresses.
MUSIC{OF LHE WINNEBAGO, CHIPPEWA, AND
PUEBLO INDIANS

By FRANCES DENSMORE,
Collaborator, Bureau of American Ethnology

In continuance of the writer’s study of Indian music for the Bureau
of American Ethnology, three field trips were made during the past
year. The work has comprised further study of Winnebago and Chip-
pewa music and the recording of songs by Pueblo Indians who were
connected with a pageant at Kilbourn, Wisconsin.

The first field trip was made in June, 1930, to the Winnebago
living near Tomah and Pittsville, Wisconsin, songs being recorded
in both localities. John Smoke (fig. 190) was the Indian selected near
Tomah, and he had as his guest Paul Decora, a Winnebago of Ne-
braska who also recorded songs. Smoke, whose Winnebago name
means “ Standing in the day,” is the possessor of a water-spirit bundle,
inherited from many previous generations. He permitted the writer to
see this bundle, removing the outer wrapping of deer hide and reveal-
ing a bag, or packet, of soft matting filled with medicines, several
small packets of herbs, and a short flute. In the spring he gives a
feast at which this is the only bundle opened, and sometimes he
takes it to the Winter Feast of Bundles, when the contents of many
bundles are exposed to view. He believes that by the proper use of
this bundle he is free from calamity and his wants are gratified. The
songs belonging to the bundle and sung to make it effective are 18 in
number, six being sung while a feast is cooking and 12 during the dance
which follows the feast. He recorded songs of both classes. The
other songs recorded at his house were those of the green corn dance,
friendship, war, “ fortynine”’ and squaw dances, the moccasin game
and hand game, love songs, and a lullaby which was recorded by
Mrs. John Smoke. Two flute melodies were recorded by Frisk Cloud
who said that “love songs are words put to flute melodies.’ Frisk
Cloud is a maker of flutes and described his system of measurements
in terms of fingerwidths; he also transferred to the writer the flute
on which he had been playing. It is made of iron pipe, is 234 inches
long and has six finger holes.

George Monegar, living near Pittsville, also recorded a flute melody,
using a flute made of brass pipe. The legendary origin of the Winne-
bago flute was described by this informant who said that a young man

217
218 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Fic. 191.— Winnebago women dancing the wild goose dance, commonly called
the swan dance.
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1930 219

Fic. 194.--Mr. and Mrs. Tom Thunder, Winnebago.
220 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

in a fasting dream saw a man walking through the air, travelling
toward the west and playing on a wooden flute. He instructed the boy
in making the first flute known to the Winnebago. Numerous songs
were recorded by Monegar who is considered an authority on the
Winnebago of Wisconsin. A fine specimen of a wooden flute was
obtained later in the season.

In July the writer went to the Grand Portage reservation in Minne-
sota to attend the dancing at a Fourth of July celebration. This
locality was visited in 1905 in connection with the early study of
Chippewa music, so a return to the place was particularly interesting.
Grand Portage (figs. 192 and 193) is on the north shore of Lake
Superior, near the Canadian boundary. It is the site of the oldest
settlement of white men in Minnesota and was a trading post of the
Northwest Company in 1780. Today it is an isolated village of about
20 Chippewa families, descendants of the old inhabitants who retain
many of the old customs. Among the dances seen in 1930 was a
war dance that could be danced only by men who had dreamed of a
grizzly bear. Such dances imitated the actions of a bear before going
to war. The dream and this dance were said to have been so strong a
protection that the arrows of the enemy could pass through a man’s
body without injuring him.

A wabunowin (east god dance) was held on July 5 and the writer
was invited. The dance was held in a long Medicine lodge, and a
little windmill was whirling on a post at the east entrance. This was
placed to summon the east wind which, it was said, always came and
made its presence known in this manner. Those who have dreamed
of the east god are believed to have particularly strong “‘ medicine ”
and this dance was believed to benefit a certain sick man. The dance
was in charge of Edward Ely Burntside (Sun climbing the sky), a
medicine man reputed to have great power, who afterward sang four
of his wabuno songs for the writer. The melodies were similar to the
songs of the Chippewa and Menominee Medicine Lodge. The words
were concerning the wahbuno spirit who gave medicine to cure the
sick, and the words of the first song of the set were translated as
follows :

On the north shore of Lake Superior,

Seashells around my neck.
The cliffs are where I get my medicine.

More than two wecks later, at the same place, the shaking of a jug-
eler’s tipi was seen. This performance is very rare at the present time
and was given by Edward Ely Burntside to ascertain whether his
treatment of a certain sick man would be successful. In a subsequent
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS,

19

5

)

O

i bd
ies a

*

bo
bo

vergreen Tree, a singer from Cochiti.

E

IG. 196.

4

|

Lucero, a singer from Isleta.

.—Anthony I

6
Pe)

Fic. 19
222 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

conversation he said that if the spirits whom he summoned into his
tipi “* spoke loud and clear” he knew the sick man would recover, but
if their voices were faint the man would die. The response at this
time was said to have been satisfactory. The writer, remaining at a
reasonable distance, watched the shaking of the tipi and listened to
the juggler’s songs for almost an hour. The singing and drumming
was similar to that of the Chippewa Grand Medicine (Muidewiwin).
Although the evening was without a breeze, the tipi (a tall, slender
structure) swayed back and forth with the regularity of a pendu-
lum, its top describing a wide arc, then it stood still for a few
moments and then was shaken convulsively, the cloth cover flapping
as though in a tempest. This was repeated over and over. Burnt-
side said that he was securely tied with thongs when he was put in
the tipi and freed himself from these cords. The writer was allowed
to inspect the hoops and poles of this tipi a few days later. The holes
in the ground were more than a foot deep and their edges did not show
the crumbling that would inevitably have resulted if the framework
of the tipi had been shaken as violently as it appeared to be shaken
during the juggler’s performance. Numerous cords were attached to
the hoops and it appears possible that these cords could have been
manipulated in such a manner as to produce a motion of the cloth
cover without disturbing the framework of the tipi. This trick of
Indian medicine men has, however, remained without a satisfactory
explanation for many years.

The purpose of this demonstration was to cure a man said to be
suffering from typhoid fever. A ‘“ beneficial dance’ was held at his
house the next day and attended by the writer. The dance was in a
long Medicine lodge, and the dancing and songs were like those of
the Midewiwin. About a week later the man was said to be recovering.

The study of Indian music was resumed in August at Kilbourn,
Wisconsin. Two pageants are given simultaneously at the Dalles of
the Wisconsin River, each employing about 100 Indians from many
tribes. While the Winnebago were the chief interest, songs were
recorded by two Pueblo Indians, Pawi’tla of Isleta, known as Anthony
Lucero (fig. 195), and Hatcu’ke of Cochiti, known as Evergreen
Tree (fig. 196). The Pueblo songs thus obtained were more than 30
in number, including songs of war, hunting, corn grinding, and
various dances, with detailed descriptions of their use.

On arriving at Kilbourn the writer learned that Mrs. Tom Thunder,
a Winnebago, had died during the previous night. Mrs. Thunder and
her husband (fig. 194) were photographed in 1927 when he recorded
songs at Hunter’s Bridge. The writer went at once to Thunder's tent
‘IgQuep OSeqouul

\\ B ‘ropuny yy, Aquap] ‘say —'gOI “DIT "eYSeAGIN JO AopIVD wes—ZOr “91

et
N *g 4 sex +

XPLORATIONS, 1930

,)

J

SMITHSONIAN

224 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

and found him with blackened face, after the manner of his people
when in grief. The burial of his wife was according to the ways of the
white man but the native custom of four feasts was observed. There
was no singing until the fourth night when the spirit of the dead was
believed to start on its journey. During the four days that followed
Mrs. Thunder’s death her cooking fire was kept burning in her wig-
wam and it was with charcoal from this fire that her husband black-
ened his face.

The gathering on the fourth night was attended by the writer, who
remained until midnight. The later events were described by Sam
Carley (fig. 197), brother of Jasper Blowsnake, and a leader in the
native rites. He said that a feast was served, and after the people were
seated Andrew Black Hawk, a relative, talked to the spirit of Mrs.
Thunder. He told her that she would follow a trail to a wigwam (rep-
resenting the earth) where she would find an old woman (our earth
mother). This woman would say “ You are going to leave your earth
mother and begin a spirit life.’ Then the old woman would tell of a
blazing thicket, an enemy who would spit upon her, and finally a great
darkness beyond which she would find her deceased relatives and be
welcomed to the spirit village. She was told to go bravely through
these difficulties. It is the belief of the Winnebago that the spirit of
a slain enemy is at the command of its conqueror and at this feast four
Winnebago who had served in the United States Army during the
World War commanded the spirits of their slain enemies to attend
the spirit of Mrs. Tom Thunder on its journey, to assist it in every
way and provide warmth, food, and light for it at night.

As the edge of the sun appeared above the horizon the women began
to play the bowl-and-dice game, given to Indian women by the spirit
women in the eastern sky. While they were playing, the spirit of Mrs.
Thunder went away.

The next morning her cooking fire bad been obliterated, the cover
was gone from her wigwam, and someone was swinging a baby in a
little hammock, suspended from the framework of the wigwam.

Two songs of the fourth-night feast for the dead were recorded, as
well as songs of the Winnebago Medicine Lodge, the buffalo feast,
and the night-spirit bundle. Among the songs of games and dances
were those of the fish dance and the wild goose, commonly known
as the swan dance. The latter is danced by women and was witnessed
at Stand Rock (fig. 191). Mrs. Henry Thunder (fig. 198) is fre-
quently a leader in this dance, taking the position at the point of its
wedge formation.
Re ee re
fs az - “3

: *
~
oe
te"
ee
ps
ze:
{
;
4
|

“SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

EXPLORATIONS AND FIELD-WORK OF THE
SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION
IN 1931

(PUBLICATION 3134)

CITY OF WASHINGTON
PUBLISHED BY THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION
1932

4
. ' *
. is
it
‘ =) 5
.
f
4
‘ ‘
‘ ‘
6
'
A
;
,
Ae .
*.
.

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

EXPLORATIONS AND FIELD-WORK OF THE
SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION
IN 193]

Yr.
ow

aur
ITV
JAINGTO

(PUBLICATION 3134)

CITY OF WASHINGTON
PUBLISHED BY THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION
1932
The Lord Baltimore Press

BALTIMORE, MD., U. S& A.
PREFACE

The present pamphlet contains preliminary illustrated accounts of
the year’s field expeditions of the Institution and certain of its
branches, namely, the National Museum, Bureau of American Eth-
nology, Astrophysical Observatory, and National Zoological Park.
The full results of this field-work will be published later in the vari-
ous series issued by the Institution.

In the branches of science that constitute the main activity of the
Smithsonian Institution—geology, biology, anthropology, and astro-
physics, field-work is essential in the collection of specimens and in-
formation needed in the researches under way. Many of these expedi-
tions perforce visit little-known regions of the earth, and it is the
hope that the reader will find in these brief accounts some of the
interest of scientific exploration.

WP. TRUE,
Editor, Smithsonian Institution.
CONTENTS

IND bot Cal Goalie sseanch mom anew solan obsenvatonya Sites. eosin I

Aldrich, J. M. Collecting flies in the Gaspé Peninsula of eastern Quebec... 83

Bartsch, Paul. Mollusk explorations in the Florida Keys................ 73
Bassler, R. S. Studying fossils in England, Austria, and Hungary......... 5
Boss, Norman H. Explorations for fossil horses in Idaho................ AI
Collins, Henry B. Archeological investigations in northern Alaska....... 103
Cooper, G. Arthur. Dry-dredging in eastern central New York........... 19
Densmore whirancesmulNccondines lncdianemtislGaeeie: eal oem sae eerie 183
Foshag, W. F. Further mineral collecting in Mexico..................... 33
Gilmore, Charles W. Fossil hunting in Montana and Wyoming............ 13
Hewitt, J. N. B. Field studies among the Iroquois tribes................. 175
Hindlickawelesy Anthropological awonk im Alaskaly assem oe aac: gI
hrc iene ieee shintinembasketsmnmeAudz Once erro eeiieicicetieeie ceticitts 125
Kirevers erbert awe, Culture sequences) im Elattt.......-6..-.000-4.- 00a 113
Mann, W. M. Collecting live animals in British Guiana.................. 55
Michelson, Truman. Anthropological studies in Oklahoma, Iowa, and
INAtorater aa MA epee tens vrcittri te yrnieires ste stetessuceaie =, eeitonars sci els Ons lela Ska a(S elsectapete Parana ne 179
Miller, Gerrit S., Jr. Collecting in the caves and kitchenmiddens of Jamaica. 65
Resseru Gharlesmalmers Geolocicallstudies: imiunopes--e 5 scree eee ae ene 23
Roberts, Frank H. H., Jr. An important archeological site in eastern
PNG UZ OLA Ree eee Me rca stores eared reac tN AT USPS ci con vonit uke a oenehtoces So Mona rook I41
Sailer, lBiramlk IMI, VA jpreanguere Gaye iim IESG. cogeuascouncvogccbenueuer 133
Strong, William Duncan. An archeological reconnaissance in the Missouri
NEU UREN oes Baar in ites 8 Cio ORTON REG HEMET CDCR: Cl IGEN ORE TERE PE MER ed ROE SES PERE BS nc I51
Swallen, J. R. Collecting grasses in Texas, Louisiana, and northeastern
IMMIGSESICGT iy clatdostcaag at ica cn ee DIRE 0 cro oie oe es nea eC Esa taro a eye 8&7
NVialkeraWinsloweNiqedbne: cavecultunesot Ankansase na. eee seemcee eee 159
Walker, Winslow M. A reconnaissance of northern Louisiana mounds.... 160

‘Wetmore, Alexander. Rain forest and desert in Hispaniola................ 45
Mi SEAKCEH POR ANEW SOLAR OBSERVATORY SITE

By C..G, ABBOT

Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, and Director of the Smithsonian
Astrophysical Observatory

The sun’s radiation varies in a combination of five regular periods.
Such is the harmonious result of exact independent observations made
at three stations in California, Chile, and South West Africa. There
are strong indications that these solar variations affect temperature
conditions all over the world. At present the results of the Chilean
station are far better than those of the other two, owing to the excep-
tional clearness and steadiness of sky conditions there.

A friend of the Institution became strongly impressed with this ap-
parent correlation between solar variation and weather. He believed
that before long the Observatory would be called on to furnish solar-
radiation values of highest accuracy on every day of the year, for
the use of official weather bureaus of all countries. He therefore made
a grant of $28,000 to enable the Institution to keep a trained observer,
A. F. Moore, in the field for a whole year, testing high altitude desert
stations and seeking to find another in the Old World as favorable
as Montezuma, Chile. It was hoped that such a station could be found
where observations of Montezuma on many days could be duplicated,
and many days lost by clouds at Montezuma could be filled in by ob-
servations under fine sky elsewhere.

Mr. and Mrs. Moore visited Fogo Island in the Cape Verde group,
and made daily observations on a high peak there for over a month.
Though generally cloudless, this mountain proved to be surmounted
by a very high thick blanket of haze nearly all the time, which seems to
arise in the Desert of Sahara. Disappointed here, Mr. and Mrs. Moore
went on to South West Africa, where they occupied Mounts Lord,
Erongo, Gansberg, Grosskopf, and attempted the Brandberg unsuc-
cessfully. Some of these stations were occupied for several weeks on
two separate occasions, and their skies were compared with those
of Mount Brukkaros where regular observations were going on.
Although some of these South West African peaks proved a
little superior to Brukkaros, they lacked much of the excellency of
Montezuma.

Funds for continuation of Mount Brukkaros station being now
nearly exhausted, and no station of much better character being found

I
bo

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Fic. 1.—Bearers carrying Mr. Moore’s outfit on Fogo Island. How would
you like to carry a box like these on your head for 20 miles for $1.50?

Fic 2—The main volcanic cone of Fogo Island; huge lava flow in the fore-
ground. The cone rises about 3,000 feet above the floor of the outer crater.
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, I931 3

Fic. 3——Camp and observatory of Mr. Moore at Fogo. From left to right
Mr. Moore, his assistant, and Mrs. Moore. The principal instrument for
measuring atmospheric humidity, brightness of the sky, and intensity of
solar radiation in the background.

Fic. 4.—Thke new instrument at Fogo. Close-up view of Mr. Moore with
the combination instrument for measuring atmospheric humidity, brightness
of the sky, and intensity of solar radiation.
4 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

near it, Brukkaros was closed in November, 1931, and its outfit shipped
to Washington. Mr. and Mrs. Moore and Mr. and Mrs. Sordahl have
gone on to Egypt, where a test of Mount Saint Catherine, near Mount
Sinai, is to be made.

Meanwhile regular solar-radiation measurements are being con-
tinued at Montezuma, Chile, and Table Mountain, Calif.

Fic. 5.——Mr. Moore’s observations in South West Africa. West Gansberg
taken from eastern part of peak. This mountain is about 7,600 feet high.

The writer, after attending as delegate the Faraday and Maxwell
celebrations in England September 21 to October 2, 1931, and address-
ing the hundredth anniversary meeting of the British Association,
compared instruments at Potsdam. Twenty years ago the Smithsonian
Institution furnished to the Meteorological Observatory at Potsdam
one Abbot silver-disk pyrheliometer, standardized to the Smithsonian
scale for measuring solar radiation. Comparisons made in October,
1931, show no change above one-tenth of one per cent in the scale of
this instrument after 20 years of use.
STUDYING, FOSSIES IN ENGLAND, AUSTRIA, AND
HUNGARY

By R. S. BASSLER
Head Curator, Department of Geology, U. S. National Museum

The circumstances attending the acquisition by the Institution of
the remarkable Frank Springer collection of fossil echinoderms, as
well as Doctor Springer’s plans for its study and increase, were set
forth in the Explorations Report for 1929." Here also I reported
how in fulfillment of his wishes I spent my field season of 1929 in
Europe in obtaining new material and especially in preparing casts
of unique type specimens in the Barrande collection at Prague, Bo-
hemia. It was here noted that time was available for collecting only
in France and Germany, leaving other equally interesting areas for
future investigation. Much effort has since been spent in the prepa-
ration and installation in the study series and the exhibition series
of fossils resulting from that summer’s work.

One of the results, a slab of limestone about 4 feet in length, ob-
tained from the Mesozoic (Triassic) limestone of Germany in co-
operation with the Geological Institute of the University of Halle,
originally showed upon its surfaces only a few calices of crinoids, or
so-called sea-lilies. Preparation in the National Museum’s laboratory
by carefully chiseling away the surrounding rock has revealed no less
than 30 complete bodies and a multitude of columns, many preserv-
ing their bases. Although not a result of the present field season’s
work, this slab is of such interest as an exhibit and also as evidence
of tangible results in building up the Springer collection that a photo-
graph of it is here introduced (fig. 6). This illustration does not do
the subject justice, as the solid, slightly expanded bases of the crinoid,
the long columns composed of many buttonlike segments with a body
or calyx several inches in length are unusually well preserved in the
rock and still possess a reddish tint, possibly as in life, which causes
the fossil remains to stand out sharply on the creamy white back-
ground of the limestone.

Opportunity for continuing field-work abroad was afforded the
past summer when in the interests of the Springer collection I was
detailed to study in various European museums, particularly of Eng-

"Explorations and Field-work of the Smithsonian Institution in 1929, p. 9, 1930.

5
0

SMITHSONIAN

INSTITUTION

(Photograph by G. I. Hightower. )

sermany.

natural size) from the Triassic limestones of (

1
6

Portion of crinoid slab (

6.—

Eines
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, I93I 7.

land, Austria, and Hungary, and to collect in certain of their classic
geologic areas.

Doctor Springer’s last work, “ American Silurian Crinoids,” a
quarto volume published by the Smithsonian Institution shortly be-
fore his death, monographed the very complete series of these fossils
in his collection, but some of the rare species found in Great Britain
where the Silurian strata are typically developed were lacking. To
remedy this I spent a week at the British Museum of Natural History
in studying the collections and preparing casts of many of the fine
fossil crinoids assembled by Dr. F. A. Bather, Europe’s leading student
of these forms.

A great similarity of the fossil crinoids in certain formations of the
English and American Silurian has given rise to interesting problems
of intercontinental correlation of these strata, so that complete suites
of fossils of both areas are necessary for future studies. Incidental
to the work for the development of the Springer collection arrange-
ments were made with the authorities of the British Museum for a
mutual exchange of recent and fossil bryozoans and also for obtaining
samples of deep-sea dredgings resulting from the Challenger and
other exploring expeditions of many years ago. These dredgings will
furnish the National Museum with rather complete sets of Ostracoda
and Foraminifera described long since and now much needed in the
pursuit of micropaleontology by American students. While in Eng-
land opportunity was also taken to gain an idea of the Tertiary de-
posits of the London Basin and to study the Chalk cliffs along the
southeastern coast. In each case samples of the different strata con-
taining microfossils were secured for future study.

After a few days at Versailles, France, spent mainly with Dr. F.
Canu in collaboration upon our next joint work (the Tertiary Bryozoa
of Australia) I proceeded to Salzburg, Austria, stopping at Zurich
and Innsbruck for short periods to get an idea of Alpine structure.
Near Salzburg I had the pleasure of meeting two valuable correspon-
dents of the Smithsonian, Dr. Othenio Abel and Dr. Curt Ehrenberg
of the Paleontological and Paleobiological Institute of the University
of Vienna who have their summer home at Mondsee, a glacial lake
in the Salzkammergut region. Again one of the rare clear days of
the season occurred and through Doctor Abel’s kindness I obtained
an excellent impression of the Salzkammergut, an area of ancient
salt mines in the Austrian Alps, interesting in history as well as in
geological structure. Part of the day was spent upon Mondsee itself,
in which interesting environment arrangements were made for future
interchanges of needed collections.
8 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

The next objective was the Vienna Basin and Hungarian Plain for
the purpose of securing echinoderm fossils and washings, with micro-
fossils from the various Tertiary formations of these classic areas.
It should be explained at this point that in Europe there are various
basinlike areas which were flooded by the sea during the era pre-
ceding the present and that these preserve rather complete records
of the life of the time, particularly of the microscopic organisms that
abounded in the sea then as now. These basins, now uplifted often
high above the sea, are usually occupied by large rivers on whose fer-
tile flood plains people have settled in great number. Accordingly
we have these basins named after large cities such as London, Paris,
and Vienna, each of which has become a center for geologic research.
In the United States these same marine Tertiary rocks were depos-
ited along the Atlantic and Gulf Coastal Plains and the Pacific Coast.
In the last two areas these rocks are the source of economically im-
portant products such as oil and gas, in locating which it is necessary
to have a knowledge of the microscopic fossils found in the strata.
Such fossils from the various European basins have been described in
great detail but in most cases these accounts published years ago are
accompanied by such diagrammatic drawings that in the refinement
necessary in present day work it is usually impossible to recognize
these European species from their illustrations. Collections from the
type localities must therefore be obtained and studied before accurate
work can be done upon the corresponding American fossils. Such
collections are now being assembled in the National Museum as a
result of trips like the present one and are being rapidly studied by
specialists so that within a short time the National collections can be
employed in the accurate study of the American species.

The study of the geology of the Vienna Basin and Hungarian Plain
is greatly facilitated by the use of the steam-boats of the Danube
Steamship Company. Boarding the boat at Linz, Austria, for Vienna
we pass first through beautiful meadow lands and then mountain scenes
with granite outcrops as the river skirts the edge of the Bohemian
massif of igneous rocks to the north. The Danube now narrows and
we are passing the rocky region of the Struden or Swirls, once a
dangerous passageway for the navigator and now an area with ruined
castles and churches on either side as in the Rhine Gorge and equally
rich in legend. Soon in the distance high up on the rocks are seen the
towers of the ancient monastery of Melk, a medieval town well known
as the site of the Niebelungenlied. Before reaching Melk however the
Ruin Whitenegg on the ridge contrasts strongly with the modern
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1931 9

houses and the ship station at its base (fig. 7). Viewed against a set-
ting sun such ruins display to the fullest extent their interest and
charm (fig. 8). From Melk to Krems the Danube flows in a gorge
through the Wachau, a mountainous region of cool forests, imposing
ruins, bright green vineyards and quaint villages to attract the artist
and many rock outcrops to interest the geologist. We are now in the
foothills of the Alps and range after range of mountains appear.

Fic. 7—Ruin Whitenegg along the Danube.
(Photograph by Bassler.)

The first ridge is guarded by Schloss Schonbohel, an ancient strong-
hold. Ruin after ruin now comes to view and everywhere the mountain
slopes are terraced for grape culture. On a steep height is the castle
Durnheim where once Blondel found his imprisoned King—Richard.
the Lionhearted—and where now the village at its base is the center
of the celebrated wine industry (fig. 9).

At Krems the Wachau is left and broad stream valleys and willow-
tufted plains now prevail. Tulln, an old Roman settlement, celebrated
for the great festivals of the Niebelungen, is soon passed and shortly
the Wienerwald, the Vienna Woods of Song, comes into view ; then

Ss?
Vienna the beautiful city of music and art.
IO SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Fic. 8.—Sunset on the Danube. (Photograph by Donau Dampfschiffahrts
Gesellschaft. )

Fic. 9.—Diirnheim on the Danube. (Photograph by Donau Dampfschiffahrts
Gesellschaft. )
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1931 II

Fic. 10—View from Royal Castle in Buda overlooking Pest on the Hun-
garian Plain. (Photograph by Magyar Rotophot.)

i h4
Me MEW: (Ree Re a Ne ee os

Fic. 11.—Buda by night. (Photograph by Magyar Rotophot.)

to
I2 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Much could be written of Vienna as a scientific center but it must
suffice here to state that it is a paradise for the geologist. Neighbor-
ing localities are classic ground for the paleontologist, the nearby Alps
afford many problems of structural and stratigraphical geology, and
the museums along the Ringstrasse give the student every opportunity
for study and research. Here I spent a week most pleasantly and
profitably in the field and in the several natural history museums.
Wonderful exhibits of rocks, minerals, and fossils have been installed
in the Natural History Museum under the direction of Dr. F. X,
Schaffer and supplementing these in the Paleontological and Paleo-
biological Institute of the University of Vienna, Doctor Abel and his
assistants have built up most interesting series of fossils illustrating
the relation of the life of the past to its environment.

The trip to Budapest is likewise made most pleasantly by means of
the Danube boats. For miles the scenery is charming, especially in the
region of the Bakony Forest and the Little Carpathians. Then the
Danube takes a southern course and approaching Budapest after dusk
one can see the brightly illuminated Coronation church and other pub-
lic buildings an hour or more before they are reached. Approached
thus after dark, Budapest presents an enchanting spectacle, but equally
delightful is its charm in the day time, for quiet Buda with its Royal
Castle, Coronation church, and other ancient artistic monuments lo-
cated on the slope of the Buda Mountains is in great contrast with
Pest, a modern business metropolis on the other side of the Danube.

Several days were spent at Budapest where a study of its museums
and the local geology of the Hungarian Plain was made, but no
field collections were possible because language difficulties prevented
finding the localities. However, through friends made at this time it
will be possible to obtain valuable material later on. Returning to
Paris in order to take the boat at Cherbourg, short stops were made at
Vienna and Munich, particularly to study the new developments in
natural history museums.

The cold, rainy condition in Europe made field-work, especially in
the clays of the London and Vienna basins, somewhat difficult, but,
nevertheless, I feel the time was profitably spent, for considerable
collections from various classic localities were obtained. The work
in the various museums, however, was very successful, with the re-
sult that many casts of type fossil echinoderms and _ particularly
Silurian crinoids hitherto wanting in the Springer collection have
been obtained.
FOSSIL HUNTING IN MONTANA AND WYOMING

By CHARLES W. GILMORE
Curator, Division of Vertebrate Paleontology, U. S. National Museum

Exploration of the Miocene and Oligocene formations of south-
western Montana was planned for the season of 1931, in an effort
to fill existing gaps in the fossil vertebrate collections of the National
Museum.

Leaving Washington on June 1, I first visited Trinidad, Colo., to
investigate a discovery brought to our attention by George Heap of
that city. A week spent here resulted in the recovery of a large marine
turtle from the Pierre formation. Turtles are rarely found in this
formation, and since this large swimming turtle (Archelon) was
previously unrepresented in our collection it is a welcome addition.

Following this, I joined my party at Belgrade, Mont., on the eve-
ning of June 11, where camp had been established and work begun
by George I. Sternberg and M. V. Walker, engaged as field assis-
tants prior to my leaving Washington. A week’s work on their part
in the Miocene exposures paralleling the Madison River for some
miles along its lower course had produced meager results and it re-
quired but a short time to convince me that to continue exploration
in the Madison formation of this region was but a waste of time and
effort. Collecting conditions were rendered difficult by the vegeta-
tion which covered the exposed slopes and the fact that bands of
sheep had recently grazed over the area. Some desirable material
new to the collections was found, but not sufficient to justify the
expense and labor involved.

Unlike many fossil fields where a party of three men may spend
an entire season in one locality without covering all of the ground,
the Tertiary of this part of Montana consists for the most part of
small, scattered patches of exposures. Consequently from June 13
until the latter part of the month we were almost constantly on the
move. Under the guidance of C. A. Kinsey, of Belgrade, a corre-
spondent of the Museum who is familiar with the fossil beds of this
part of Montana, we visited the famous Pipestone Creek locality near
Pipestone Springs. The formation here, named for the creek, 1s of
Oligocene age and consists of a few outcropping exposures along the

13
INSTITUTION

SMITHSONIAN

14

(‘Aosury “Vy ‘Dd Aq ydessojoyg) ‘sodojs pspnusp ssoyy
WOIJ Po}d9[JOD oJOM suSUTIDds AuR]Y “‘JUOTY ‘ssulidg suojsadig Ivou ‘UOMeUIIOY Yoo 9u0Jsodiq JO soinsodxs puer[peq—I ‘oIyy

SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1931 15

base of the foothills (fig. 12). In fact, so much has been written of
this formation and its fossils that the literature is all out of propor-
tion to the extent of the collecting ground, which consists of only a
few widely scattered acres.

Although Mr. Kinsey and his associates had collected in this lo-
cality the previous year, we were well repaid for the two days spent
here. More than 150 tooth-filled jaws of extinct rabbits, rodents,
insectivores, and lizards of the microfauna, a complete turtle shell,
and parts of two Mesohippus skulls rewarded our efforts.

Fic. 13.—Collecting a skeleton of a large merycoidodont from the Miocene,
near Canon Ferry, Mont. (Photograph by G. F. Sternberg.)

Having prospected all available ground, we next investigated an
outcropping of Oligocene exposure along the Big Hole River near
Glenn Station some 80 or go miles southwest of Pipestone Springs.
According to information furnished by an old collector, important
specimens from this locality had been obtained years ago by Earl
Douglass. Again, however, we were disappointed not only by the
scarcity of fossils but also by the small extent of available collecting
ground.

On June 17 we arrived at Canon Ferry, a locality on the head-
waters of the Missouri River that in years past has yielded important
10 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Miocene and Oligocene fossils. In the few days spent here we secured
a small but interesting collection especially rich in the larger merycoi-
dodonts, of which several skulls and a considerable part of the skele-
ton of one individual were found (fig. 13).

Having collected in all outcrops in the vicinity of Canon Ferry
we next moved to White Sulphur Springs, where the Deep River
formation of Miocene age was explored. In fossil collecting, ground
devoid of vegetation and débris always offers the best opportunity,
for in such areas the occurrence of specimens can be more easily
detected. Of the several miles of escarpment of the Deep River for-
mation along Smith River it is only here and there that ground is
thus denuded, and although specimens are fairly abundant, our work
was again hampered by the small size of the outcrops. A considerable
number of desirable specimens were obtained, but so much time was
spent in traveling from one area to another that with the completion
of this work we decided to abandon further collecting in the Tertiary
of Montana.

The material assembled at Belgrade was boxed and shipped, and
upon receiving authorization to transfer our activities to the Wasatch
formation for the remaining part of the season, we started for Basin,
Wyo., some 300 miles distant, on June 27. Basin, the county seat of
3ig Horn County, is a small town on the eastern edge of the badland
country in which we proposed to work. The Big Horn Basin has
long been known as a rich field for the remains of Eocene vertebrates,
and as the Wasatch badlands cover an area approximately 60 miles
long and 40 miles wide, our worries in regard to restricted collecting
grounds were over for the season.

The term ‘ basin” as applied to many of these Tertiary fields is
a low, central area, the sides of which

just what the name signifies
are formed by mountain ranges. The central part has been filled
with stratified layers of rocks, and it is in these layers that the fossil
bones occur. In the case of the Big Horn Basin, the deposits are
made up of materials derived chiefly from the erosion of the sur-
rounding heights.

Acting upon the recommendation of William A. Stein, an ex-
perienced collector thoroughly familiar with the region, we com-
menced work on the breaks along South Fork of Elk Creek on the
eastern side of the basin. Confining our efforts to the lower part of
the formation on the eastern side of the basin, we successively worked
the badland escarpments of South Elk Creek, Fifteen Mile or Cotton-
wood Creek, Ten Mile Creek, and Five Mile Creek. The latter part
of the season was given over to the Middle Wasatch as exposed along
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1931 17

Fic. 14.—Collecting the skull and lower jaws of a creodont mammal in the
Big Horn Basin. (Photograph by G. F. Sternberg.)

Fic. 15.—Collecting a disarticulated skeleton of Coryphodon from the
Wasatch, Big Horn Basin, Wyo. (Photograph by G. F. Sternberg.)
18 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

the western side of the basin, especially on Dorsey Creek. For lack
of time no collecting was done in the upper beds.

In the time spent here we were successful in obtaining some few
specimens of outstanding interest and a great mass of scientifically
important material. Worthy of especial mention are the following: A
considerable part of the skeleton of a large creodont, Pachyaena, a
large carnivorous mammal; three partial skeletons of Coryphodon, a
rhinoceroslike animal (fig. 15) ; a skull and lower jaws of the dawn
horse Eohippus; a skull and lower jaws of a rare edentate ; lizard
remains ; and six more or less complete crocodile skulls of the genus
Allogonathosuchus. In addition there were found fragmentary parts
of no less than five individuals of Diatryma, the giant nonflying bird
of this period. Since it reached a height of nearly 7 feet, the large
size of its bones probably accounts for the considerable numbers of
individuals that have been found, as bird remains are among the
rarest of fossils. In this connection, William Stein brought to my
attention the interesting fact that all of the known Diatryma remains
found in the Wasatch formation of the Big Horn Basin, including
a nearly perfect skeleton discovered by him, have come from a nar-
row strip of country on the eastern side, not more than 2 miles wide
and 4 or 5 miles long.

During the entire field season good weather prevailed, except for
the extreme heat, and only two days were lost on account of rain.
Although we were not fortunate enough to find a paleontological
prize, such as a complete skeleton, the collections made are of the
utmost importance from the fact that practically all of the specimens
secured are new to our collection and thus fill gaps existent since the
establishment of the division of vertebrate paleontology in the Na-
tional Museum. From a scientific point of view, the small mam-
malian material—tooth-filled jaws and parts of skulls, some of them
associated with skeletal material—forms the most important part of
the year’s collections. In all there are more than 600 such specimens,
which, although containing some duplicates, give to the division an
adequate working series of this basic fauna. It is anticipated that
many new forms of animal life will be revealed when a systematic
study is made.
DRY-DREDGING IN EASTERN CENTRAL NEW YORK

By G. ARTHUR COOPER
Assistant Curator, Division of Invertebrate Paleontology,
U.S. National Museum

New York State has long been classical ground for the study of
Paleozoic formations, particularly those of the Devonian system.
Many Devonian localities are now world famous and are visited every
year by geologists. It would not be expected, therefore, that much
of the new or unusual is still to be found. Nevertheless, several
regions in New York have been neglected or overlooked since the
earliest survey of the State in the years 1836-1842. This is notably
true of the country lying between Chenango Valley and the Helder-
bergs in eastern New York. The writer has long been interested in
the Devonian rocks of this little-known region and most particularly
in the outcroppings in the vicinity of Hamilton, where the geologists
of New York’s early survey chose the typical or reference region of
a series of rocks which they termed the Hamilton Group. When in
the employ of Colgate University some years ago, the writer mapped
the detailed stratigraphy of this critical area. It was his purpose this
year to make collections for the United States National Museum from
the more fossiliferous layers, few specimens of which had ever been
acquired by this institution.

The region furnishing the bulk of the material collected is em-
braced by the Cazenovia, Morrisville, and Norwich quadrangles.
The Cazenovia and adjacent Morrisville quadrangles lie between the
meridians of Syracuse and Utica and some distance to the south. The
Norwich quadrangle adjoins the Morrisville on the south. Physio-
graphically the region is a portion of the maturely dissected Allegany
Plateau. The hills are gentle, having a relief of about 300-500 feet,
but rarely attaining 1,000 feet. Post-glacial gorges tributary to the
main streams afford adequate exposures and good collecting grounds.
Hamilton, a quiet little village, lies near the head of the Chenango
Valley. Natural exposures and quarries are abundant in and about
the village.

The general geology of Hamilton and vicinity is rather simple.
The rocks are all Paleozoic in age, dipping gently to the southwest a
little less than one degree. Minor undulations cause local changes in
dip; no faults complicate the sequence. The portion of the Paleozoic
column exposed is from the Upper Silurian (Vernon shale) to the

19
20 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Ithaca division of the Upper Devonian. The writer was interested
chiefly in the Middle Devonian and the lower Upper Devonian, the
times during which the Hamilton Group and Tully formation were
deposited, the latter overlying the former.

Although the structure of the Hamilton Group is simple the de-
tailed stratigraphy is more difficult. As a whole the group is a great
wedge of clastic rocks less than 300 feet thick at Lake Erie but in-
creasing to an unknown thickness, probably exceeding 2,500 feet in
eastern New York. In western New York much of the lower part is
a black shale denoting near-shore conditions of a peculiar kind and
containing a peculiar fauna. Toward the east these black shales are
replaced by mudstones and sands and the peculiar black shale fauna
gives way to large species which inhabited the active shore zone. In
other words, as one travels eastward in following the Hamilton across
the State, he leaves an old land on the site of the present Lake Erie and
approaches the shoreline of the old continent of Appalachia which
lay southeast of New York. Between the two lands was the open sea
which trapped the sediments.

The village and township of Hamilton are in a critical geographical
position as regards the stratigraphy of the Hamilton Group, lying in
the area where there is a notable change from characteristic marine
conditions to the close-shore region. Still farther east, in the vicinity
of Albany and Catskill, the upper part of the Hamilton has been
replaced by continental beds.

A fourfold division of the Hamilton rocks from the bottom up is
recognized: Marcellus, Skaneateles, Ludlowville, and Moscow. In the
region visited the first formation is composed of black shales which
cover the hilltops in the northeastern part of the Morrisville quad-
rangle and form the bottom of the Chenango Valley as far south-
ward as the village of Hamilton. The Skaneateles division underlies
the villages of Cazenovia and Morrisville, and in Chenango Valley
extend to the south margin of the Morrisville sheet. The succeeding
divisions cover the southern portions of Cazenovia and Morrisville
quadrangles and the northern one-third of the Norwich area.

The numerous ravines and quarries around Cazenovia, Morrisville,
and Hamilton are delightful collecting grounds, yielding a great va-
riety of fossils. For the most part the entombed animals are inverte-
brates. Most numerous are the clams occurring in great numbers and
representing nearly 150 species. Second in point of numbers and
species are the brachiopods. Other divisions of the invertebrates are
present but less numerous. The fossils occur usually in the form of
external and internal impressions, as the actual substance of the shell
has been dissolved away by surface waters.
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, I93I1 2i

Fic. 16.—Delphi Falls, a delightful collecting locality in
the lower Skaneateles beds.

Fic. 17.—Devonaster eucharis (Hall), a Devonian starfish from the Uni-
versity Quarry on the campus of Colgate University. Note also the small
ophiuroids or brittlestars of the genus Encrinaster.
22 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

The writer arrived in Hamilton in early autumn and collected in
this region for two weeks. Later he moved to Cazenovia where he
was joined by Dr. Edwin Kirk of the United States Geological Sur-
vey and the two collected togther for one week from several famous
localities. Pratts and Delphi Falls (see fig. 16) were visited in
order to secure fossils from the Skaneateles formation, and for the
Ludlowville and Moscow fossils Earlville and Georgetown were
visited. At Hamilton collections were made from the quarry just
south of the buildings of Colgate University. It is well known for its
yield of starfishes and other rare echinoderms as well as peculiar types
of clams and brachiopods. (See figs. 17 and 18.) Doctor Kirk and the
writer obtained a splendid collection from this place, including some
of the rare echinoderms.

Fic. 18.—University Quarry on campus of Colgate University.

The Tully limestone was also of interest and was visited for the
purpose of making collections. In the Cazenovia, Morrisville, and
Norwich quadrangles it consists of about 20 feet of argillaceous lime-
stone. Across the Chenango Valley, at West Brook, 3 miles south of
Sherburne (on the New Berlin sheet, adjacent to the eastern edge
of the Norwich sheet ), there is a predominance of silty shale and sand.
Some of the shale beds abound in good fossils. Collections were
obtained alike from limestone and shale in the vicinity of George-
town, Fabius, and Sherburne. The collecting trip was culminated by
a visit to Palmers gully in Unadilla Valley about 16 miles east of
Hamilton where some fine crinoids were obtained. In all, more than
2,500 specimens of fossils were added to the Museum’s collection as
a result of three weeks’ work.
GEOEOGIECN. SEUDIES LN EUROPE

By CHARLES ELMER RESSER
Curator, Stratigraphic Paleontology, U. S. National Museum

Usually the geologist takes advantage of suitable summer weather
to examine rock outcrops for needed data, but occasionally it becomes
desirable to learn by personal contact what others, working along
similar lines, have discovered. Thus, during the past field season |
pursued the latter course and spent the available time in examining
the Cambrian fossils in European museums and visiting the local
workers. As space does not permit the recording of more than a
mere fraction of my observations, it is necessary to present but a very
sketchy account of the season’s work.

In recent years several Norwegian geologists have attacked the
very difficult problems presented by the mountain region that forms
the backbone of Norway, and by patiently and faithfully applying
modern geological principles, they have been able to uncover unsus-
pected structure and to elucidate whole chapters of geological history.
Having read much about this work I was anxious at least to see
these highlands from the train windows in crossing to Oslo, and
therefore I first went direct to Bergen.

Bergen is, in many respects, the most beautiful city it has been my
lot to see. Situated on several narrow strips of comparatively flat
land at the head of a long, winding fjord, it is flanked on three sides
by hills that rise very abruptly to a height of a thousand feet. Viewed
from the restaurant high up near the top of these hills, reached com-
fortably by a funicular, the city is spread out as on a map. From this
vantage point the intimate contact of the Norwegians with the sea
is forcibly brought to one’s attention by the numerous ships and boats
dotting the waters and by the proximity of the buildings to the sea.

June 15, the Sunday spent in Bergen, was one of the three or four
cloudless days experienced all summer. The ride across the moun-
tains to Oslo was very interesting and instructive for besides the
opportunity to observe the topographic, glacial, and geological fea-
tures, numerous illustrations of intelligent adjustments to the envi-
ronment were constantly brought to my attention. Notwithstanding
the late spring which had not yet melted the heavy winter snows or
permitted vegetation to put out leaves, our train was filled up several
times with people young and old all carrying back packs, either going

23
24. SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

out or coming in from long tramps through the mountains. Certainly
more enjoyment can thus be had than by driving about in automobiles
as we in America are wont to do.

In the beautiful capital of Norway, as in the other places I worked,
local geologists were more than generous in giving me assistance.
Thus in Oslo, Prof. Johan Kiaer corrected mistaken views derived
from my reading of Norwegian geological literature and freely gave
additional unpublished information obtained through his field-work.

At Oslo I was advised to go to Stockholm via Trondhjem in order
to discuss with Prof. Thoralf Vogt the unique folded belt in the Nor-
wegian mountains. This route follows for many hours the shores
of beautiful Lake Mjgsen, which contrasts most strongly with the
bleak though attractive Dovre Mountains traversed in the afternoon.
Professor Vogt has spent many seasons studying the complicated
structures, and a pleasant and profitable day was spent here in spite
of the cold and rain. In going by this route to Stockholm the Nor-
wegian highlands were crossed for the third time, whereby I gained
an indelible impression of the landscape as well as some knowledge
of the geological structure.

Stockholm well deserves its reputation as the most beautiful Euro-
pean capital; it is often referred to as the ~ Venice of the North
Of particular interest to the geologist are the wonderful fossil col-
lections dating back to the time of Linné, now housed for the most
part in the Riksmuseum and the adjacent Geological Survey Museum.
Several of my old friends, particularly Dr. A. A. Westergaard, went
to great lengths in supplying information.

From Stockholm the ancient university town of Uppsala is easily
reached. Here it was a great pleasure to have Prof. C. Wiman ex-
plain certain obscure geology, and to view the new Paleontological
Institute building now nearing completion. That Professor Wiman
has spent many years dreaming of this structure is apparent from
its most satisfactory arrangement and design. The old quarters of
the geology department are scarcely more than 50 feet from the main
entrance to the cathedral, within which is the tomb of Linné, and a
delightful hour was spent in his old garden, started with his own
hands, where descendants of many foreign plants described by him
are growing. A thrill was experienced in seeing the maize, even
though the plants were rather sickly owing to the adverse climate.

After a few days given to studies in Copenhagen, I visited an old
friend at Helsingborg, Sweden, where I was shown interesting topo-
graphic features developed prior to glaciation and recently exposed
in the sand pits. Of even greater interest are the terraces cut by the
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1931 aS

%

Fic. 19.—Hotel at Finse, the highest point on the Bergen-Oslo line, famous
resort for mountain sports, both summer and winter. Aspect of the Nor-
wegian mountains well shown in this landscape.

Fic. 20.—Beautiful Lake Mjgsen, north of Oslo. Many famous fossil localities
occur on its shores.
26 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

sea as the land was uplifted following the removal of the ice. Care-
ful work has enabled the local geologists to correlate these terraces
fairly precisely with the development of the human race as illustrated
by its artifacts.

Perhaps nowhere in Europe is the recent enlargement of cities
and villages so strikingly apparent as in Czechoslovakia; the old
buildings are usually dark colored from weathering, so that the new
construction forms a light-colored ring around the old nucleus. Six
years ago I first became acquainted with attractive Bohemia and con-
sequently welcomed the opportunity of spending several weeks within
its confines this summer. Prague is ever alluring. Hours pass as
moments when one walks about in the narrow winding streets of
the two old sections of this ancient city. Each corner opens a dif-
ferent vista by day, but the greatest charm is at night when the soft
white gaslamps in the quaint old lanterns shed just enough light to
bring out the picturesque buildings. The fossil collections also are
more than usually interesting, as they contain some of the earliest
described fossils, besides many others to which long histories are
attached.

Under the guidance of Dr. Jan Koliha I visited several interesting
villages east of Prague. One evening we went out to the beautifully
restored monastery-castle at Zbraslov, presented by its owner to the
government to be used as an historical museum, and another of our
visits to important outcrops took us to the famous Karlstein Castle,
now also national property. The most interesting Czech village visited
was Skreyje, famous as the locality from which so many fine Cam-
brian fossils have been obtained. The hotelier, Mr. Sindler, main-
tains a fine private museum which he delights in showing to visitors.

At Prague I was joined by Prof. and Mrs. B. F. Howell, of Prince-
ton University, and Dr. FE. S. Cobbold, the octogenarian English
geologist of whom I shall speak later, for a geological trip to Poland.
At Kielce in central Poland southeast of Warsaw, our party was met
by three of the local geologists ; automobiles were provided and our
entire party was shown the geology about the city and eastward into
the Sainte Croix Mountains, the most primitive region in all Poland
because of its sandy soil, derived chiefly from the glacial débris.
Immediately east of the Sudete Mountains, which separate former
Russian territory from that which belonged to Austria, Russian
dress, farm implements and methods of farming appear and increase
in relative numbers eastward.

We next visited Warsaw and looked over the collections at the
Geological Survey and the university. The Geological Survey was
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, I93I 27

Fic. 21.—Landscape of the rich, carefully farmed lands near Skreyje,
Bohemia.

Fic. 22—Zbraslov, south of Prague, an old castle-monastery, now a
national historical museum. The small lookout, built for Napoleon’s visit,
can be seen above castle.
28 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Fic. 23—Evening in Skreyje, Bohemia; wheat cut with the sickle being
thrashed by electricity.

Nee uke eee i ; Ee TR Le
Fic. 24.—Karlstein, Bohemia, street scene beneath the castle. Note the

cows used as draft animals, the ever present geese, and the complete distribu-
tion of electricity.
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1931 29

just completing a very handsome and efficiently arranged building to
house the magnificent collections made since Poland obtained its inde-
pendence. It is astonishing to note how much scientific progress these
eastern countries have made in recent years.

The Jewish villages in central Poland differ from the Polish towns,
in lacking farmers. It is difficult to see how these people, often in
very unproductive surroundings, are able to make a living without
farming and manufacture, but our guides told us that they subsist
solely on trade.

Leaving Warsaw, where our party disbanded, I stopped next at
Dorpat, the university town of Esthonia, and after looking over the
collections at the university took a train to Tallinn, the city we
knew as Reval. This beautiful city was founded by the Danes many
centuries ago and the old walls still stand nearly intact. Since more
peaceful days have come to Europe, houses have been built against
the walls and of course the city has grown far beyond them. It is
the intention to restore the walls and remove the houses built against
them.

From the vicinity of Tallinn, the Baltic shores stretching away to
Russia are peculiarly attractive to the geologist, for here the Cam-
brian or other old sediments are still unconsolidated and the millions
of shells which make up some of the layers still retain much of their
original nacre. Elsewhere in the world all of these strata are hardened
and often buried under tremendous masses of younger sediments, from
which fact we draw the conclusion that this region must have had
approximately its present day aspect for hundreds of millions of
years. Because the shells in these beds have been so little altered they
are quarried for the manufacture of phosphate—in fact they are
often used directly on the land. During the war the Russian govern-
ment undertook to make Tallinn its chief naval base in the Baltic
and consequently erected large shipbuilding docks which of course
today are standing idle, the machinery rusting away. But—more im-
portant to the geologist—they also began land fortifications, draw-
ing three circles around the city, the outer one being 12 kilometers
out. As the country is low-lying and the rainfall considerable, much
drainage had to be undertaken, so that besides the diggings for the
fortifications themselves, long drainage tunnels had to be constructed,
one of which is shown in Figure 27. The result of this work was the
opening of fine exposures in these soft sediments which could have
been brought about in no other way. Because these sediments are
soft it will be only a few years until the excavations slump, again
concealing the sediments and therefore I had rather extensive
collections sent to the National Museum.
30 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Fic. 26.—Our group in Kielce, Poland. Left to right: Jan Samsonowicz,
the writer, Roman Kozlowski, Jan Czarnocki, E. S. Cobbold, and B. F.

Howell.
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1931 31

Fic. 27.—Dr. A. Opik (at right) and the writer at the mouth of a drainage
tunnel belonging to the uncompleted Russian fortifications about Tallinn,
Esthonia. The rock is the famous Obolus sandstone.

Fic. 28.—View across Doctor Cobbold’s garden to the Caradoc range.
Overhanging branches of the cedar of Lebanon.
SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

(os)
bo

Returning to Germany from eastern Europe I visited first Frank-
furt a. M., one of the livest centers of scientific activity in Europe.
Following the transfer of Strasburg to France, the German students
of the old university moved out and established themselves at Frank-
furt, where in consequence exists the only European university in
the American style. A little time was spent in Bavaria and Freiburg
during the latter part of August, when the continuous rains became
particularly heavy, changing to snow in the Bavarian Alps. Two
clear days followed this excessive rainfall, but with the great mass
of fresh snow, temperatures were barely above freezing. In fact
there was no more than 10 days all summer when one could go
without an overcoat.

The last three weeks of September, were given to work in England,
beginning with a half week in the Sedgwick Museum at Cambridge
University where so many of the historical Cambrian collections, as
well as more recent ones, are housed. From there I went across to
Shropshire and spent a number of days in the home of Dr. E. S.
Cobbold. For nearly 50 years he has lived quietly and pleasantly in
the Caradoc region and by painstaking searching has unraveled much
of its exceedingly complicated geology. As a consequence of this
work Doctor Cobbold is now the outstanding Cambrian geologist of
Ikurope. It was most delightful to live in his beautiful house, part of
which is three centuries old while the newer addition is only about
two hundred years of age. The garden, a corner of which is illus-
trated, has been cultivated continuously for at least two centuries, so
that its attractiveness rests not alone on the beauty of the blooms or
the landscaping. In the midst of the garden stands a_ beautiful
example of the cedar of Lebanon.

London claimed my attention during the last 10 days, both for
the purpose of studying the collections in the Geological Survey and
the Natural History museums and for the Centenary meetings of the
British Association for the Advancement of Science and the 50-year
Jubilee of the Natural History Museum. This brought together not
only a good representation of British scientists but many others from
all parts of the world.
BDURTEDR MINERAT COELECTING IN MEXICO

By W. F. FOSHAG
Curator, Division of Mineralogy, U. S. National Museum

After leaving Laredo, the border point on the Mexican National
Railroad, the traveler proceeds for a short time over flat and uninter-
esting country. Soon, however, he sees before him, rising from the
monotonous plain, rugged mountains, the first of the series of loosely
connected ranges that make up the Sierra Madre Oriental. From here
south, mountains are always close at hand, some of them low rolling
ridges, but most of them steep or palisaded masses of limestone or
flat-topped ridges of broken lava. Scant brown herbage or stretches
of scattered thorny scrub, cactus, and yucca cover much of the coun-
try; only the highest elevations are forested with groves of pines
and cedars.

When one has passed the first range he enters a mineral region rich
in gold, silver, copper, lead, and zinc. There are also minor deposits
of mercury, antimony and tin, and of precious stones—topaz, turquois,
and opal. Numerous evidences of mining activity can be seen as the
train passes southward, but the most important localities are away
from the main line and hidden in the heart of ‘rugged ranges.

On this, my third trip into Mexico, it was my desire to seek new
collecting fields ; consequently at Monterey, the first important point
on the railroad, I stopped for a few days to obtain information from
mining men regarding favorable localities to visit. This modern city
is almost surrounded by high and rugged mountains, the most striking
of which is the Sierra de la Silla, or Saddle Mountain, lying a short
distance north of the city. From here I proceeded to the district of
Concepcion de Oro to explore its mines of copper, silver, lead, and
zinc. The high granite peak of Temerosa, one of the highest points
in the state of Zacatecas is the focal point of the district ; to the south
lie the copper mines of Aranzazu and Concepcion del Oro; to the
west and north the lead, silver, and zinc mines of Bonanza, of which
the Providencia is now the most important. Its extensive workings
penetrate the mountain for long distances and extend through the flank
of the range to connect with mines on the other side. The peak of
Temerosa is flanked on all sides by steeply tilted beds of limestone
and shale, and it is at or near the contact of the granite with these
rocks that the important bodies of ore lie.

33
34 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Fic. 29.—Sierra de la Silla or Saddle Mountain, at the outskirts of Monterey,
during a storm.

Fic. 30.—The camp of Providencia, Zacatecas, with the trail to Aranzazu.
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1931 35

The camp of Providencia clings to the steeps flanks of Temerosa,
and facing it is a high and rugged palisade of limestone up which a
burro trail zigzags its way to the pass and on to the copper camp of
Aranzazu across the range, where a second granitic mass is exposed.
At or near the contact of this rock with the surrounding limestones are
extensive deposits of copper of the contact type. The principal cop-

Fic. 31.—Patio of the Santa Maria de la Paz mine
with workmen breaking ore by hand.

per minerals are chalcopyrite and bornite associated with bodies of
garnet, epidote, and related minerals. A long tunnel, two kilometers
in length, has been driven through the massive granite to intersect
the ore bodies, offering an exceptional opportunity to study this type
of ore occurrence. At Aranzazu is a small grove of pines and cedars,
the last remnant of the extensive groves that once covered all the
higher slopes of the range. A rocky trail, in places blasted out of the
36 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION
dense granite, takes one to Concepcion del Oro, the commercial center
of the district and the rail head.

Matehuala in the northern part of the state of San Luis Potosi is
a little town sprawled out in a barren valley, with little to commend it
but the interesting mineral deposits close by. To the west rises a short
but steep range of mountains, the Sierra del Fraile, at the foot of
which lies the famous silver mine, Santa Maria de la Paz. The rich
silver ores are found as an intricate vein system cutting shale. Many
of the mine workings are extremely hot and until these have pro-
gressed sufficiently for proper ventilation the miners can work for
only one-hour periods.

West of the Sierra del Fraile lies a long and rugged mountain
chain, the Sierra de Catorce, containing the old and once very rich
camp of Catorce. Like the Sierra de Concepcion this range is said to
have been forested formerly with pines and cedars but the slopes are
now almost bare rock with the scantiest herbage that can be imagined.
Only the lower slopes are covered with a growth of cactus, yucca, and
similar plants. The town itself is one of the most picturesque in
Mexico. It occupies a high shoulder overlooking a deep and rugged
canyon, here little more than a cleft in the mountain range. Behind
the town rise mountain slopes of red, mauve, and purple shales, almost
totally devoid of grass or other vegetation. Its population, once num-
bering over 50,000, has dwindled to less than 400 persons, but the
town, except for its lack of the human element and the usually ubi-
quitous dogs and pigs, seems little changed from its original condition.
The houses and shops are well preserved, the sloping streets with
their paving of geometrically laid cobbles are worn but still intact.
Above all rises the huge bulk of the cathedral, built, it is said, at a
cost exceeding one million dollars. The mines are scattered over the
barren hills about the city and over the ridge toward the more recent
town of Potrero.

The ore-bearing veins occur in both shale and limestone and are
variable in width. The smaller ones are often very rich, and some of
the larger ones contain great bodies of extremely rich ore—the bonan-
zas of the early days of mining—in the leaner vein matter. Like
many of the rich old camps of Mexico, the mining works are impos-
ing structures. At the San Augustin mine not only workshops but
also the mine chapel have been hewn out of the solid rock at the mine
entrance.

From Catorce I proceeded to Charcas, one of the oldest of Spanish
towns in Mexico. It les some distance from the main line of the
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, I93I

‘IsoJOg sin ueS
‘zed e] ap elreyy eyues je oue

Fst, SOs

‘seoajeoe7 ‘ezueuog ‘seueueq jo sayound se
Siq s¥ siaMoY snoynpusd yyM seoonA asnp{[—'zt “oI

38 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

railroad, with which it is connected by a small branch. Situated in a
broad open valley surrounded by low hills, its green trees, the blue
domes of its churches, and the whitewashed adobe houses give it a
pleasing and restful aspect. The city of Charcas was founded in 1574,
the rich silver veins in the vicinity attracting early attention. It was
also an important stage stop. On the walls of the old stage station
can still be discerned in faint characters the destinations of the
stages and distances of the stations to points as far away as Cali-
fornia. It is said that Cortez once made this his stopping place. The
mines, once worked for silver, are now more valuable as producers
of lead, zinc, and copper. The principal mine, Tiro General, situated
a few miles west of town at the base of a low range of hills, is one of
the great producing mines of Mexico. Copper and lead-zinc-silver ores
are both mined; the ores occur at or near the contact of a porphyry
and limestone. Old accounts describe the number of mine workings
in the district as innumerable but by far the greatest number of them
are shallow and appear to be of little economic importance. Antimony,
mercury, and tin are also found in minor quantities in the surrounding
hills. Caves containing old Indian remains are occasionally discovered
in the surrounding region and I had an opportunity of visiting one
recently discovered from which skeletal material and a few shell orna-
ments and similar material were recovered.

Between Charcas and San Luis Potosi the character of the country
changes abruptly from an area characterized by steep and rugged
limestone mountains to one of the flat-topped ridges of old rhyolitic
lava flows. Vegetation, too, becomes more abundant, the most con-
spicuous forms being candelabria and organ cacti. The lava flows
contain minor deposits of tin and topaz but the more important ore
deposits are still largely confined to the limestone rocks.

Fifteen miles east of the city of San Luis Potosi is the mining camp
of San Pedro, another ancient camp discovered in the latter part of
the sixteenth century. The richness of its mines gave it at one time
the name Potosi, which was afterwards applied to the entire state.
The district lies in a comparatively low range of barren mountains.
The slopes of the mountains show abundant evidences of intensive
mining operations ; in places large blocks of the mountain side have
collapsed into the old mine workings. The ore bodies lie along fault
planes in limestone with porphyry in close proximity. The rich ores
for which the district was famous appear to be largely mined out, the
only evidence of their former presence being the huge underground
chambers from which the ore seems to have been totally removed.
Mining operations are at present confined to a large, recently devel-
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, I931 39

oped body of sulfides of lead, zinc, and silver near one edge of the
district.

The city of Queretaro, capital of the state of the same name, lies
among green and fertile fields and is a place of considerable histori-
cal interest, having been the scene of many incidents of Mexican his-
tory. To the south of the city are low hills capped by old flows of

Fic. 34.—A cottage at San Pedro, Mexico.

rhyolitic lavas that contain, in numerous places, the opal mines so
famous for the richness and variety of their products. The opals are
found in the steam cavities of these old lavas over a wide area but
active mining is carried on only in a desultory manner by the natives.
The stones are brought to Queretaro where they are cut upon common
grindstones and polished on wooden wheels. Clear opals with little
fire are abundant and cheap; the finest stones are much rarer, more
costly and are of great beauty.
40 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

From Queretaro, | proceeded to Mexico City, and further field
studies were deferred until another season. During the two and one-
half months spent in active field-work a considerable amount of geo-
logical material was collected including systematic series illustrating
the mineral occurrence, processes in ore formation, such as oxidation
and enrichment, and large exhibition specimens of lead, silver, zinc and
copper ores. A small collection of Indian remains and artifacts was
obtained at Charcas.
PeELORATIONS FOR FOSSIL HORSES: IN IDAHO

By NORMAN H. BOSS
Chief Preparator, Department of Geology, U. S. National Museum

Field operations in the vicinity of Hagerman, in the Snake River
Valley, Idaho, had demonstrated the fact that here was the greatest
accumulation of fossil horse remains ever discovered. Two seasons’
work under the direction of the late Dr. J. W. Gidley had brought to
light and added to the Museum’s collection such a vast amount of
valuable material without exhausting the resources of the quarry that
a third season was deemed profitable. As the condition of Doctor
Gidley’s health made it imprudent for him to undertake the strenuous
work of directing a party this year, I was detailed to take charge of
the 1931 expedition.

Arriving at Hagerman on June 4, I was joined by C. P. Singleton
of Melbourne, Fla., who had had previous experience with Doctor
Gidley ; C. W. Caldwell was employed as “ handy man,” and Charles
Bremer as cook, thus completing the personnel of the party. I wish to
say here that such success as attended the expedition was due in large
measure to their cooperation and understanding helpfulness.

Camp established, the work of the season began by collecting such
specimens as were left from the previous year’s excavations. It was
soon determined, however, that to work the deposit successfully other
means than pick and shovel would be necessary for removing the over-
burden of sand and gravel. Two weeks spent by the entire force in
stripping by use of plow and scraper resulted in exposing a portion
of the bone-bearing layer approximately 5,000 square feet in extent.
The magnitude of this task may be better understood when it is ex-
plained that the back wall of the excavation was 45 feet in height.

This deposit of fossils is situated on the southern extremity of a
short, steeply sloping hill that juts out from the border of the plain.
Thus, as work progresses into the hillside, the depth of the overburden
above the fossil layer rapidly increases, for not only is the face of
the hill steeply inclined, but the bone horizon dips rapidly downward.
Resuming work with small tools on the ground uncovered, we found
fossil bones in great abundance (see fig. 37). Literally hundreds
of bones are present here, although disarticulated and widely scat-
tered, and nearly all pertaining to the extinct horse Plesippus
shoshonensis. However, 5 more or less complete skeletons, 32 skulls,

41
42 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Fic. 35.—Fossil horse quarry, from the opposite side of canyon. (Photograph
by N. H. Boss.)

Fic. 36.—Starting the stripping above the bone layer. (Photograph by
IN EE Boss.)
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1931

(Cssog ‘HN Aq ydeasojoyg) ‘uozi0y
duog 94} %AOGR Joo} Qz SI SUIPURYS St UPL ATOM
Jeaoy ‘Arsenb jo yJeM yoeq Jo uojIOg—sge ‘oy

(‘ssog ‘H 'N Aq ydessojoyg) ‘patoaooun
dI9M ADY} SB 9SIOY B JO UOJIJays oy} JO souoq—ZE “oly

44 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

48 pairs of lower jaws, and numerous articulated limb and foot bones,
all in an excellent state of preservation and representing all stages of
growth of both sexes, were recovered. In order to preserve the evi-
dence of original association all articulated skeletons were collected
in large blocks and the removal of these to the camp on top of the hill,
a quarter of a mile distant, in order to pack them for shipment, pre-
sented one of the difficulties of the task. The blocks varied in weight

Fic. 39.—Method of removing heavy bone encased blocks to the level of the
plain. (Photograph by Harold Tucker. )

from 200 to 400 pounds, and to transport them suspended from the
center of a pole resting on the shoulders of two men along a narrow
cow path (see fig. 39) was a matter of no small difficulty, particularly
in the extreme heat which prevailed most of the time.

At the request of the State Historical Society of Idaho, arrange-
ments were made by which their representative, Harold Tucker, spent
six weeks at our camp collecting material for the society. He obtained
a small but representative collection which it is their intention to ex-
hibit in the State Capitol at Boise.
RAIN FOREST AND DESERT IN HISPANIOLA
By ALEXANDER WETMORE

Assistant Secretary, Smithsonian Institution

In continuation of the biological survey of Hispaniola initiated for
the Smithsonian Institution a number of years ago by Dr. W. L.
Abbott, the writer returned to Haiti in the spring of 1931, with
Frederick C. Lincoln, of the Bureau of Biological Survey, as com-
panion, to visit regions from which information on the bird life was
desired. We landed in Port-au-Prince, Haiti, from the Panama Line
Steamship Ancon on March 22. After three days occupied in neces-
sary arrangements for our work, in which we were aided most courte-
ously by the American Minister Doctor Munro, by Colonel Cutts in
command of the Marine Corps, by officers under his command, and
other officials, we were off for the northern plain. In company with
S. W. Parish, M. W. Stirling, and H. W. Krieger, who were engaged
in archeological work, we proceeded to a great plantation near Terrier
Rouge where we were hospitably received by Mr. and Mrs. R. Petti-
erew and began our studies and collections.

The thorny scrubs of the level plain had been pes for an area
of 7,500 acres to allow the planting of sisal, and additional acreage
of like extent was at the time being cut away for extension of the
fields. A low, double-pointed hill, the Morne des Mammelles, rose
at a little distance, being the only eminence in an otherwise level land-
scape. On this we found the curious flat-billed vireo, a little known
species, to be common, and while collecting specimens we were able
to gain some insight into its manner of living, hitherto uncertain. Here
too we obtained the fourth specimen of a curious goatsucker, Antro-
stomus cubanensis ekmani, and other rarities.

Returning to Port-au-Prince, one clear morning at dawn, with Sergt.
R. A. Trevelyan, of the Marine Corps, as pilot, I made a reconnais-
sance by airplane of the little known mountain range of La Hotte near
the end of the Tiburon Peninsula. Three peaks composed the mountain
mass, and it was exhilarating to circle above the deep valleys separating
them and to fly low over slopes heavily forested with pines and rain
forest, looking down into dark, wet depths of jungle unknown to man
and peopled in imagination with any manner of strange and unusual

birds.
45
40 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

I lite oh PLS

Fic. 40.—Looking across sisal fields toward the Morne des Mammelles
near Terrier Rouge, Haiti.

Fic. 41.—Field party at Post Avancé, Haiti.
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, I931 47

With the invaluable information thus gained from the air we or-
ganized a pack train at Post Avancé, the present terminus of a pro-
posed roadway between Aux Cayes and Jérémie, and accompanied by
S. W. Parish set out into the La Hotte region. The journey by air
had been a simple matter of three hours absence from the flying field
at Port-au-Prince, but on land we found travel slow and laborious.
At the end of six days of almost constant rain, over trails whose
steepness and badness beggars description, we came finally to La Cour
Z’ Anglais where the slopes became so abrupt that our animals could go
no further and it was necessary to gather a train of porters. After
another day of this travel, including a night when our outfit was
scattered for miles across the face of a great mountain, and we our-
selves sat around a smoky fire in a little native hut thankful to be
out of the downpour of rain, we reached the little group of three huts
called Caye Godet, the last human habitation on the higher slopes of
Pic de Macaya, the highest mountain in the La Hotte group.

At the edge of the forest, at an elevation of 4,200 feet we dug out
the face of a slope against a huge log wedged against boulders and
made a level platform large enough for our Baker tent. The moun-
tain descended steeply below us into a deep valley whose sides were
planted in bananas, sweet potatoes, coffee—grown without shade be-

cause of the almost continuously clouded sky—and other crops.
Across from us rose the steep pitches of La Grande Colline, and ahead
we had a glimpse of the forested slopes of Pic du Formon, the third
of the peaks of La Hotte.

Wind currents drawing through the valley brought an everchanging
appearance in the landscape. Clouds of fog came swiftly in to obscure
the view and then in a few moments broke away to show the ragged
silhouettes of the pine covered ridges opposite. Occasionally the
mountain slopes stood out clearly except for scattered, drifting rays
of mist but this was exceptional as rain fell for the greater part of
each day. In spite of this continued precipitation the slopes were so
steep that we had to depend on rainwater caught from the tent for
camp use or else have water brought up the steep trails from a river
3,000 feet below. At 4,000 feet the rain disappeared into the ground
and there were no streams or pools.

From this camp we climbed to the summit of Pic de Macaya through
a dense growth of rain forest, replaced above 6,000 feet elevation
by a stand of tremendous pines 4 to 6 feet in diameter with their
lower limbs cloaked in moss and epiphytes and the ground beneath
covered with dense growths of dripping bracken.

4
48 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

The botanist, Dr. E. L. Ekman, had collected plants in this region
but to our knowledge we were the first to make zoological collections
on this mountain, so that our enthusiasm for the new and unknown
repaid the hardships of scrambling up and down muddy trails, of
cutting passages through the jungle across the mountain slopes, and
of the continual rain.

Trogons, hummingbirds, brilliant-colored tanagers and other birds
abounded, but the most attractive form was the solitaire, found
throughout the forest and at this season in full song. Its marvellously
clear, flutelike notes were constantly in our ears and we never tired
of the music of these gifted performers. At our camp interesting
birds were continually under observation at our very door.

The country Haitians came in groups, interested in a friendly fash-
ion in the strange customs of the white man, and marveled at our
little tent with its compact camp equipment. Each morning at dawn
Monsieur Godet, whose real name was Plaisimond Geélin, climbed up
from the huts below to drink a cup of coffee, with an abundance of
sugar, and to discourse on food, the coffee crop, and kindred subjects.
His family brought us vegetables, including excellent white potatoes,
profiting thriftily through our purchases. On occasion the local
Societé came at dusk and to the throbbing beat of drums danced and
sang for hours before our tent.

With our cases filled with specimens we came finally out of
this mountain area, moving slowly over the wretched trails and finally
descended again to Aux Cayes on the coast. From here through the
kindness of Lieut. Charles Klein of the Garde d’Haiti we crossed in
a launch to Ile a Vache a few miles distant, and in a short time had
our camp once more established, this time back of the sandy beach of
the little land-locked harbor of Feret Bay. After the muddy trails
of La Hotte it was a welcome sensation to be clean and dry and to
walk about on level ground. Collecting went on apace supplementing
the material obtained here last year by the Parish-Smithsonian Ex-
pedition led by Lee H. Parish. By the beginning of May our work
here was finished and we were again in Port-au-Prince.

Abandoning mules as a means of transport we obtained a Ford and
with our equipment crossed through the mountain highways into the
Dominican Republic, where, thanks to the interest of the President,
Gen. Rafael Trujillo, we were received at the border with every
courtesy. We continued to San Juan and from there to Barahona
through an area of desert with giant cacti and mesquite growing over
hills cut by dry arroyos that were reminiscent of Arizona.
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1931

Fic. 43—Crossing the Roseaux River below Bois Lacombe.

49

50 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Fic. 44.—Caye Godet on the slopes of Pic de Macaya.

Fic. 45.—Camp on the shore of Feret Bay, Tle 4 Vache.
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, I93I1 SI

Frank Warmoth, John L. Segall, and George Hamor of the Bara-
hona Company, devoted to the making of sugar, received us most
hospitably, and through their kind assistance we engaged a little sail-
boat, the Rosita, with a crew of three men, and set out one evening for
the island of Beata off the extreme southern tip of the Barahona
Peninsula. The following afternoon we landed in the little bay of
Ocrik on the north shore of Beata where through the kindness of
Don Eduardo Echevaria we were given quarters in a little house, a
most welcome attention, as the sun’s heat was so strong that a tent
would have been almost unbearable.

Beata Island is low and slightly undulating, composed of a mass
of limestone much eaten by erosion so that the surface is rough and
broken. Thorny bushes, trees, and vines growing from the scanty
soil accumulated in crevices in the rock form a jungle so dense that it
may be penetrated only along trails cut laboriously into the interior.
The coast was bare and open with stretches of sandy beach alternating
with low, rocky headlands.

Within 15 minutes after leaving camp on our first morning afield
we obtained specimens of a wood warbler that was recognized in-
stantly as new to science. Its near relatives inhabit the high rain
forests of the mountains so that it was a surprise to find a repre-
sentative in the dry scrubs of Beata. Snakes were common and lizards
abounded, and several collected proved to be new to science, as did
several forms of land shells. We captured a number of brilliantly
colored, ground-living lizards alive, and brought them home with con-
siderable difficulty for the National Zoological Park.

Our work afield was pursued principally in early morning as by
tI o'clock the blazing sun beating down on the island made any
physical exertion arduous. Even in the earlier part of the day the
heat was at times most oppressive. Our afternoons were occupied at
camp with notes and specimens. Pelicans, terns, and gulls fished
along the beach just beyond our front door, while from the opposite
doorway we looked out over a lagoon where often three or four pink
flamingoes stalked solemnly about, occasionally within 200 yards.
One day we went out in the boat to a series of offshore rocks where
we saw boobies, frigate-birds and tropic-birds, and found breeding
colonies of bridled and noddy terns. Roseate terns and least terns
nested near our camp. A kingfisher and a few barn swallows from
North America passing in migration as late as the middle of May were
reminders that the time for our own journey northward was near, and
we finally set out one evening in the Rosita on our return to Barahona.
With contrary winds a small sailboat is not to be recommended for
52 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Fic. 46.—Dominican frontier at Comendador.

Fic. 47.—Desert water-hole between Azua and Barahona.
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1931 53

Fic. 48.—The Rosita at Puerto Caiman en route to Beata Island.

Fic. 49.—Settlement at Ocrik on Beata Island.
54. SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

travel, particularly when a crowded deck offers the only passenger
accommodation, and it is necessary to shift about at every tack in
the course. The morning and evening light on the water, a flock of
flamingoes passing at sunset along an uninhabited shore, and bands of
terns, shearwaters, and other interesting birds are pleasant memories
of this voyage that overshadow the blazing, shelterless heat of mid-
day and the interminable tacking in an endeavor to work up the
coast, that continued for three days before we finally arrived at
Barahona.

Return to Port-au-Prince was varied with stops to search for speci-
mens and when once more in Haiti we had time for several journeys
into the Cul de Sac region, including a trip to the great salt lake, the
Etang Saumatre, before we left on May 27, sailing once more on the
Ancon for the north.

Hispaniola and our many friends and acquaintances there will live
long in pleasant memory.
COLLECTING LIVE ANIMALS IN BRITISH GUIANA

By W. M. MANN
Director, National Zoological Park

Under an appropriation for travel for the purpose of collecting
live animals, the writer and Frank Lowe, assistant head keeper at the
National Zoological Park, spent the months of August and September,
1931, in British Guiana. Mrs. W. M. Mann accompanied us un-
officially.

At Georgetown the party was very kindly received by His Ex-
cellency the Governor, Sir Edward Denham; facilities were given for
work in the interior, and a permit to collect certain protected species
was issued to us.

The first objective was Tumatumari on the Potaro River, reached
by launch from Bartica, which is on the Essequibo. The govern-
ment mail launch was not due to leave Bartica for 10 days after we
arrived there, but members of the Mount Roraima Boundary Com-
mission, A. J. Cheong, Theodore Orella, C. P. de Freitas, and James
Bamford, generously invited us to accompany them in their already
well-laden boat. This boat was 30 feet long, and contained in addi-
tion to 5,000 pounds of baggage these four members of the Commis-
sion, twenty-two boatmen, and the steersman. Added to these were
the three of us and a native assistant, Eric Chin. What we lacked in
comfort and space on the up-river voyage was delightfully compen-
sated for by the companionship of these gentlemen, all of whom had
spent their lives in the more out-of-the-way places of Demerara.

Bird life on the river was abundant and varied, and I personally
acquired a violent dislike for toucans. We saw literally hundreds of
them sitting on bare branches of trees near the river’s edge and
squawking derisively at us. At the end of our trip our total catch
of toucans was three!

Three days of gasoline engine and paddling took us to our first
destination, the government rest house at Tumatumari. This was
formerly a thriving gold and diamond mining center, but due to the
falling off in the price of diamonds, we found it almost abandoned.
Moreover the Potomoonie Indians, on whom we had depended for
assistance in collecting, were nearly all gone. The chief, Captain
Johnson, and Paul, a Macoushi Indian from above Kaieteur, were
there and they joined our party as guides and collectors.

55
56 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Fic. 50—Tame manatee. One of six in Botanic Garden at Georgetown.
This botanic garden is second to none in the New World.

Fic. 51.—Hindoo fruit vendors at Old Fort Island. There are over 100,000
East Indians living in British Guiana.
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, I931 57

Collecting was not good at Tumatumari, so, in a boat loaned us by
Michael McTurk, a local settler and trader, we went up the river and
then walked to Minnehaha, a gold-dredging station, and remained
there a week as guests of Allan Humphreys. Here a number of rep-
tiles and one sloth were secured. On our return to Tumatumari we
raided the Indian village for pets, and brought away several parrots,
finches, and chachalacas.

The head of the Boundary Commission, Mr. Cunningham, arrived
at Tumatumari at this time and gave us permission to return down
the river in the boat that had brought him up. The down trip took a
day and a half, with a night’s camp at Rockstone, where we stayed
in what was formerly a thriving hotel but was then entirely deserted
and stripped of furniture. Rockstone is just above the rapids of the
Essequibo and in times past was a way station for Wismar on the
Mackenzie River some 19 miles distant. By going overland to Wismar
and then down the Demerara River the rapids could be avoided, but
the little overland railway is now abandoned. We continued in our
launch down the river to Bartica. The ride was interesting but not
especially exciting until we noticed some wreckage in the river and
later learned that two boats preceding us had been wrecked and 12
men had been drowned. After that we had more respect for these
rapids.

Returning to Georgetown we were invited by Mr. Rucker, mana-
ger of the Bauxite Mines, to visit him at Mackenzie, 65 miles up the
Demerara River, where we were taken on a Bauxite Company’s
steamer. Mackenzie is a model tropical village, each house with great
screened verandahs and all modern sanitary conveniences. In addition
to the genial hospitality of Mr. and Mr. J. S. Rucker, we here found
numerous people willing and able to help us in our collecting. People
began bringing birds and animals into camp, so we decided to make
this our headquarters for the rest of our stay in Demerara. Mr. Lowe
took up his residence in the clubhouse of the community. This had an
open basement under it—an ideal place for keeping animals ; and there
he spent the next month, collecting, making cages, and caring for the
stock that was brought in.

Mrs. Mann and the writer returned to Georgetown and from there
left immediately on a small but comfortable river steamer maintained
by the government, going about 70 miles up the Pomeroon River to
Pickersgill, the site of the Pickersgill saw mill, and moved into the
government rest house. Pelham Young, manager of the saw mill, had
notified Mr. Lee, his resident manager, of our coming and had had
his own private system of electric light installed in the rest house, so
58 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Fic. 52.—Left, Paul, a Macoushi Indian; right,
Captain Johnson, chief of the Potomooni_ tribe.
These were our guides and assistants in the Potero
region.

Fic. 53.—Members of the Boundary Commission who invited us with
them up the Essequibo. Left to right: Mr. Orella, Mr. de Freitas, Mrs.
Mann, Mr. Bamford, and Mr. Cheong.
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1931 59

Fic. 55.—Rapids in the Essequibo River, from snapshot made from launch
while passing through.

Fic. 56—The Commission leaves us at Tumatumari, headed up-river for
Kaietieur Falls, and then to Mount Roraima.
60 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

we had the experience of living in a large, airy, palm-leaf house set
on piles on the swampy river bank, and at the same time enjoying
this modern luxury.

Pickersgill was the best region for collecting that we found. The
river people were anxious to help us, and animal life was fairly
abundant. The things one does not catch are often the most interest-
ing. We had the pleasure of seeing a troup of seven otters on the
river, some of them sliding down the bank into the water and the
others swimming with their heads held high up to observe us in our
boat.

Five hours up the river from Pickersgill was a lumber camp, named
for Mr. Laulys, the resident manager. The camp consisted of three
sideless houses, the largest of which was 8 by 1o feet. This was
turned over to us, and palm-leaf sides put on to give us a little privacy.
It was jungle life de luxe, for Mr. Laulys even cut a trail for us
down to a little clear-water bathing pool. A cage with two live curas-
sows in it serving as our table and two equipment boxes for chairs
comfortably furnished our house. From the uprights were hung our
hammocks.

Game was abundant, and in the newly cleared areas on the forest
and along the wood trails were obtained a fair number of specimens,
including Anilius scytale, a small brillant red and black burrowing
snake related to the boas, and as far as we know the first to come
alive into any collection. Seventeen Indians and Negroes, engaged in
felling greenheart trees and roughing them into logs, kept on the alert
for specimens. One morning Mrs. Mann discovered a specimen of the
‘jumping johnnie” (Liophis sp. —), a small snake which has the
vuder side of its tail colored a brilliant red. When picked up it goes
through the motions of stinging with its tail, hitting the hand that holds

‘

it again and again with the vivid red tip. Unfortunately this speci-
men died before we could exhibit it in Washington.

Our time was much too short at Laulys Camp and we left with
deep regret. From Pickersgill we made one short excursion up
Tapacuma Creek, a winding, black-water stream, with Indian villages
scattered along the bank. At its very end there is an incline to about
15 feet above, which takes one to the Essequibo drainage basin—one
steps abruptly from dense jungle country to open savannah land. We
spent two days here at the Indian Mission School and were hospitably
entertained by the schoolmaster in charge. We obtained from the
Indians several parrots and other birds.

When we left Pickersgill finally we had 37 crates of specimens. On
our way up the Pomeroon more than two weeks before, the little
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1931 61

Fic. 57—Government rest house on the Pomeroon. Though 7o miles up the
river, there is a 5-foot tide.

Fic. 58—Green-heart logs at Laulys’ camp on the Upper Pomeroon.
These logs are hand-hewn and taken down the river to the saw mill at
Pickersgill. Green-heart is used chiefly for piling in docks.
62 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

steamer had stopped at almost every house on the river and we had
gone ashore and explained to the residents that we were in the mar-
ket for snakes, lizards, and small animals. On the down voyage we
discovered that we had demoralized, at least temporarily, the entire
population of the river. They had stopped other work and gone out
collecting, usually with very poor success, but at almost every settle-
ment there was something for us. Various small creatures in quakes
(openwork Indian baskets used for carrying vegetables but adapted
to the confinement of animals for us) were brought aboard the boat
and after the usual amount of gesticulation were purchased and
placed on the deck of the steamer, to the consternation of the steward-
ess responsible for the condition of that deck. We trust that by
this time all traces of our menagerie have been removed.

At Georgetown we found Mr. Lowe who had come down from
Mackenzie with his catch, and we combined the collections in a large
storeroom beneath the Park Hotel, through the courtesy of the man-
agement. Mr. Lowe remained here while Mrs. Mann and I made a
hurried trip eastward into Berbice, in the hope of securing some
Surinam toads. Dr. Roth of the Georgetown Museum had told us
that he believed Pipa did not exist in British Guiana but we hoped
to find it towards Surinam.

Berbice is low and flat, tenanted largely by Hindus. One had the
impression one was crossing the Punjab, except that the Punjab is
never flooded as was this area. Wading birds swarmed, white egrets,
blue herons, jacanas, and gallinules predominating, and we saw many
readheaded troupials.

We had been introduced by telephone to our host, G. M. Eccles, at
Blairmont on the Courantyne River, and his first question to us was
“Where do you expect to find these toads?’ There was a canal be-
side a canefield and we asked how long it had been there. He told us
that it had been dug about a hundred years before, so it seemed prob-
able that if the toad existed in the area it might be found in the mud
at the bottom of the canal. Mr. Eccles thereupon had the canal
drained for us. A half-day’s exploration of ooze 6 inches deep re-
sulted in the finding of nothing but some catfish. Mr. Eccles placed
a car at our disposal and we crossed the Courantyne River on a ferry
and scouted the countryside, dipping in pools with nets and raking
mud and weeds from the bottom, but still with no success.

The Surinam toad lives in Surinam, so we decided, despite the
short amount of time at our disposal, to go there. A half-day’s auto-
mobile trip took us to Springlands, the last British settlement. The
customs boat took us across to Nickeri, where Mr. Gordon of the
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1931 63

Waterloo estate met us and took us to his home. A canal had just
been drained and we spent a half-day, assisted by 26 Javanese la-
borers, poking into the mud. The same 26 Javanese spent another half-
day groping in the mud at the bottom of a flooded rice field. Then we
took a seine and worked half a mile of a canal, drawing the seine
every 20 or 30 feet. Snakes were found, and many fish, but no Pipa.
Our time was drawing to an end. The assistant manager of the plan-
tation, born and raised in Surinam, remembered the toad from his
boyhood days in Paramaribo, but he had never seen it in the vicinity
of Nickeri; so as it seemed fairly certain that we were in the wrong
place, we reluctantly abandoned our quest and returned to Georgetown.

A friend of ours in Paramaribo had promised to collect some
of these specimens for us, but during two months he was unable to
find any on account of the high water. Later on, when the pools dry
out more, he has promised to send us a milk-can full of toads, so
we feel that our search was not entirely in vain, especially as we
secured in Nickeri a number of rare birds and lizards.’

Each evening in the village of Nickeri there come from the sur-
rounding country thousands of red-spotted green parrots ( Aratinga
sp.) which crowd the fronds of the palms on which they roost and
fill the air with their cries.

At Georgetown on the day of sailing we heard that our steamer
was caught beyond the bar and could not get in until high tide the
following morning, so we dismissed the porters and proprietors of
donkey carts waiting to help us load our specimens, and told them
to be on hand at five o'clock next morning. But we had misjudged the
captain of the steamer, who waded his boat through the mud of the
bar and docked at ten o’clock that night. The boat was to sail at four
in the morning! With a hurriedly gathered crew of assistants we
loaded 99 crates of specimens, and 12 days later landed practically all
of them alive in New York for shipment to Washington. The first
officer had given us ample space between decks so the stock had
comfortable, uncrowded quarters.

Many courtesies were extended to us during our stay in British
Guiana. Dr. George Giglioli, of Mackenzie, himself a keen naturalist,

1A. J. Jessurun, our friend at Paramaribo, kept his promise and three months
after our arrival at Washington we received two crates of the sought-for Suri-
nam toad Pipa americana. We met the steamer in New York and came to
Washington immediately with them. There were 88 live specimens, enough for
a splendid exhibition in the new reptile house, as well as some for distribution
to other collectiens.

iont
64 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

cared for Mr. Lowe when he was ill with malaria, and gave us sev-
eral of his personal pet birds and a beautiful baby deer. F. M.
Walcott, of Hope Estate, presented us with a fine ocelot that he had
captured. Aurelio Gomes gave us a fine pair of whistling ducks.
John Swearingen, United States Vice Counsel at Georgetown, from
the very first took an active interest in our work and for his assistance
and friendship we are deeply grateful.

Fic. 59.—Three-toed sloth with baby in arms.

The results of the trip were an addition of about 350 live speci-
mens to the National Zoological Park, including 128 birds, 21 mam-
mals, and 1&9 reptiles. Several of these, such as the black-headed
saki monkey, the tailed agouti, the yellow-breasted flycatcher or kiska-
dee, the ani or tick bird, the Itai macaw, and numerous reptiles
are new to the history of our Zoo. Those not new to its history,
but not represented in the collection at the time, include a fine
Yaguarondi cat, two-toed and three-toed sloths, a four-eyed opossum
(so called because of a spot above each eye), black-headed caiques,
and a splendid series of boa constrictors, anacondas, and other reptiles.
COLLECTING IN THE CAVES AND KITCHENMIDDENS
OF JAMAICA

Dive GiB RUS.) MIRE IB RS. JiR:
Curator, Division of Mammals, U. S. National Museum

The pre-Columbian inhabitants of the Greater Antilles are known
to have commonly eaten mammals of several kinds that are now either
very rare or quite extinct. The remains of these food animals have
been rather carefully investigated in the kitchenmiddens of Cuba,
Hispaniola, and Porto Rico, but those in the middens of Jamaica have
received little attention. Duerden recorded the frequent presence of
bones of the now almost extinct “coney”’ (Geocapromys brownii) in
most of the Arawak deposits that he excavated (Journ. Inst. Jamaica,
vol. 2, pp. 1-51, July, 1897), and I called attention to remains found
near Salt River that appear to indicate the former occurrence of a
different but nearly related animal (Proc. Biol. Soc. Washington, vol.
29, p. 48, February 24, 19160). No one else, apparently, has given the
subject any attention, in print, at least. Mr. Anthony’s report (Bull.
Amer. Mus. Nat. Hist., vol. 42, pp. 469-475, December 11, 1920)
deals with the remains of Jamaican mammals that probably became
extinct long before man arrived at the island.

With the main object of systematically collecting bones of mam-
mals from kitchenmiddens and from the superficial deposits in caves
I visited Jamaica during February, March, and April, 1931. Work
was carried on from three principal centers, Kingston, Mandeville,
and Montego Bay.

At Kingston, Dougall McDougall, Esq., kindly permitted me to in-
vestigate the extensive deposit of shells and broken pottery that cov-
ers an area approximately 200 yards long and 75 to too yards wide
on his estate at the summit of Long Mountain (figs. 60, 61, 62). Ex-
actly why the Arawaks should have made a situation of this kind
their dwelling place is not easy to explain. The only water supply
appears to have been some pools that seem likely to have gone dry
during the winter ; and the people were forced to bring all their fish
and shellfish up a very steep slope 1,300 feet high. Bones of mam-
mals, mostly those of the “ coney,”’ were rather numerous among the
shells and fragments of broken pottery of which the deposits chiefly
consist. The photographs (figs. 60, 61) give some idea of the abruptly

65
60 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

[oo «Rog fal, Meee aera al
bears Sk ae Bw Det i

Fic. 60.—Long Mountain, whose steep 1,300-foot slope limits the growth
of Kingston toward the east. Arawaks carried tons of shellfish to their
settlement on the summit.

Fic. 61.—A general view of the kitchenmidden on the summit of
Long Mountain.

Fic. 62—A section of the kitchenmidden on the summit of Long Mountain.
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1931 67

Fic. 64.—A Jamaican “barbecue.” Every large estate has one of these
concrete platforms for drying coffee and other products.

Fic. 65.—Market at Santa Cruz. The hats in the foreground are for
sale. The large pillowlike objects are heaps of cassava bread covered
with white cloth.
68 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

rising Long Mountain ridge as seen from Kingston and of the gently
rolling topography of the summit, near Mr. McDougall’s house. At
one end of the flower bed shown in Figure 62 the Arawak deposit was
nearly 3 feet deep, with abundant shells and pottery fragments, and
a few bones.

In the Mandeville region I was unable to find any Arawak de-
posits. Three small caves in the decomposing limestone, a very slight
idea of which is given by the photograph of a recently cleared and
planted peasant’s tobacco field (fig. 63), yielded some interesting re-
mains of mammals. No rock carvings or other indications of Arawak
occupancy were detected.

At Mandeville and also at Pepper, in the Santa Cruz Valley, I
was enabled, through the kindness of Aubrey M. Lewis, Esq., and my
cousin, Mrs. Lewis, to make a large collection of samples of wood
of the native trees, which grow in great profusion on the Lewis es-
tates at both places. Attention was also given to the reptiles and to
the treefrogs that take advantage of the miniature aquaria held at
the heart of the larger epiphytic plants.

Near Montego Bay the chief objects of interest were the burial
cave at “‘ California’? (now merged with the Rose Hall estate) on the
north shore of the island and the extensive middens on the Bogue
estate across the bay from the town.

The cave at Rose Hall has been accurately described by Duerden.
During the 35 years since he visited the locality the vegetation on the
surface of the ridge where the cave is situated has changed from
“more or less ruinate’ pasture to dense young forest. Under such
a cover so small an object as the entrance to the cave is effectually
hidden. The difficulty of finding it was greatly increased by the
reluctance of the negroes on the estate to act as guides. One old man
who had shown the place to Duerden nearly collapsed when ordered
to accompany me. He said that immediately after going there with
the “* other gentleman ” he was sick for two years, and that the night
before my visit, having been told that he was to be ready the next
morning to guide me, he dreamed that he saw two men digging his
grave. That he was rendered quite useless by fear was evident. A
bolder man was finally persuaded to take me to a point from which he
could indicate a tree that marked the entrance of the cave. Arrived
there he immediately sat down in the middle of the cart track that we
were following, and for some time refused to move, thus signifying
his determination to avoid danger. Some idea of the reason for this
fear is given by Duerden’s remark (p. 28) that many of the bones in
another Jamaican cave had been removed by the “ obeahmen’’ for
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1931 69

Fic. 66.—The Rose Hall mansion, of historic and legendary fame. An
important Arawak burial cave is hidden in scrub back of the ridge.

Fic. 67.—View on the Hampden estate. The pond abounds in native water
birds, very tame and easily observed.

Fic. 68.—Montego Bay. The sail boat is in water about 10 feet deep,
so clear that the patches of coral and sponge on the bottom are plainly
visible,
7O SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

their superstitious practices; and the local atmosphere of terror that
is the heritage of the negroes with whom I came in contact has been
vividly described by Herbert G. de Lisser in his ‘“‘ White Witch of
Rose Hall.” (Ernest Benn, London, 1929).

At the cordial invitation of Mrs. Maurice Malcomb and with the as-
sistance of her overseer Cyril R. Andresen, 1 spent threelidaysmin
examining an extensive Arawak village site on the shore of the Bogue
estate near the mouth of the Montego River. The area occupied by
this site is now at least three acres in extent. Formerly it must have
been much larger, as the shoreline is undergoing rapid encroachment by
wave action. Many stumps and trunks of large trees can be seen along
the beach and in the shallow water of the bay. Bits of pottery and
broken shell plates are numerous on the beach and in the water near
it. How much has been removed by the sea cannot be determined,
but I was told that the land extended out at least two chains (132
feet) beyond the present shoreline within the memory of persons now
living. Shells and pottery fragments are thinly scattered every-
where over the remaining portion of the village site, and are con-
centrated in several large flat-topped mounds and ridges arranged with
their long axes parallel with the beach. These deposits are of all
depths up to about 4 feet. Though somewhat obscured by brush and
by the cocoanut trees that have been planted on them the middens be-
come sharply outlined as soon as their surfaces are cleared. This site
was not described by Duerden, and is not mentioned in the manu-
script list of more recent discoveries kindly given me by Frank
Cundall, Director of the Institute of Jamaica. It appears to have re-
mained unnoticed until Mr. Andresen detected it in January, 193r.
Trenches cut through each of three of the mounds yielded many
pottery fragments of the usual type as well as roughly chipped flints
and some shell utensils. Bones of mammals were rather scarce.

The Windsor estate (fig. 70), in the northern edge of the Cockpit
country, was visited as a side trip from Montego Bay. [very facility
for becoming acquainted with this exceptionally interesting region was
furnished by Mrs. Agnes Donald-Hill, the owner of the estate, and
her son, William Donald-Hill. A very large cave of great beauty,
well lighted by electricity, is a notable feature of this estate. This
cave shelters great numbers of bats, mostly of three kinds at the
time of my visit, one of them the smallest known to occur in Jamaica.
One shot from a “ game getter’ secured 27 specimens of this rather
uncommon species (Chilonatalus micropus ).

At Windsor a small cave and a rock shelter gave evidence of hay-
ing been inhabited by Arawaks. Ashes, large land shells, mostly
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1931 i

Fic. 70.—Wiindsor estate in the edge of the Cockpit country.

Fic. 71.—Jamaica’s nearest approach to desert conditions. Coast region
/ oS < = >
east of Kingston.
72 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Pleurodonte acuta and Pleurodonte jamaicensis, and broken pottery
were deposited in both, theugh in small quantities as compared with
the marine shells in the middens on Long Mountain and at Montego
Bay. A noteworthy feature of both deposits was the presence of
bones of the domestic pig, an animal of which I found no trace at
the other sites. Possibly this occurrence of pig remains indicates that
the natives were able to hold their own longer in the excessively rough
Cockpit country than was possible for them along the coast, where
their extermination by the Spaniards must have been easy and rapid.

As the Cockpit country is of great botanical interest I spent much
time, while at Windsor, in collecting plants. I also visited the cave at
Pantrepant, the estate adjoining Windsor on the west, and there
successfully photographed the curiously carved stalactite, a rough
diagram of which was published by Duerden (p. 49).

Here, as at all the other localities that he described and I visited, I
found that Duerden has given a very full and accurate account of
the existing conditions. Except for obtaining more complete details
about the mammalian remains and discovering some rude shell utensils
that he apparently failed to recognize as artifacts I found little that
the earlier investigator had not seen or that was not fully represented
in the Museum at Kingston. Characteristic specimens of these shell
utensils have been given by the United States National Museum to
the Institute of Jamaica.
MOERELUSK EXPLORATIONS IN THE, FLORIDA KEYS
By PAUL BARTSCH

Curator, Division of Mollusks and Cenozoic Invertebrates, U. S. National
Museum

During 1931, my explorations were confined to the Florida Keys
with the main object of determining the status of my Cerion colonies,
brought here from various parts of the Bahamas and the West Indies
to determine the effects of changes in environment upon these or-
ganisms, as well as the effects of hybridization produced by crossing
various members of the genus. These colonies have been established
at various times in the interval between 1912 and the present, and,
thanks to the joint cooperation of the Smithsonian and Carnegie
Institutions, I have had the opportunity of examining them nearly
every year since the beginning of this work.

Arriving at Key West on August 12, I made a collection of Cerion
incanum there which I felt might possibly be needed in my experi-
ments at the Tortugas. I also examined the two colonies planted at the
former Fisheries Station, which were found to be merely hanging on.

On August 13 I joined the Anton Dohrn on her last trip to the
Tortugas, where the time between August 14 and 27 was spent in ex-
amining Cerion colonies on Loggerhead and Garden keys, and in
photographing the bird rookeries on Bird Key. I also exposed 800
feet of standard moving picture film undersea, obtaining additional
photographs of the coral reef and its associated elements. I also
joined the Anton Dohrn on a deep-sea dredging expedition off the
Tortugas, where a lot of very interesting material was collected, which
has been brought to the National Museum.

I shall first say a word regarding the bird rookeries, and then re-
turn to the Cerion problem.

In the Annual Report of the Smithsonian Institution for 1917, I
published a short article on ‘* The Bird Rookeries of the Tortugas,”
in which were described, among other things, the tern colonies of
Bird Key. Since that paper was published, a decided change has taken
place on Bird Key. All of its tree, bush, and shrub vegetation has
been either entirely swept away by hurricanes or by their after effects,
leaving little vegetation beyond the few species of ground-covering
plants. Even the many coconut palms planted by the Audubon Society
have gone under, only one of them remaining this summer. This
change of vegetation has produced an interesting effect upon the habits

73
74 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

sien : : _, we

ALS.
WILD LIFE REFUGE

} TRESPASSING PROHIBITED

BIOLOGICAL SUP

Fic. 72.—Bird Key with its tern colony at the end of the breeding season
of 1931, showing the barren condition of the island and the crowding of
its birds.
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1931

NI

Fic. 73.—Bird Key, taken on the same day as Figure 72, showing the birds
sunning on the beach, and the fate of the warden’s house, which will soon
be a thing of the past.

cn

76 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

of the noddy terns, which formerly made their nests in trees or shrubs.
This summer all had changed to a ground-dwelling habit. Still re-
taining the desire to make nests, they gathered bits of dead twigs and
shaped them into a semblance of a nest upon the ground. They ap-
pear to have a decided ligno-tactic sense, for old boards seem to satisfy
the desire for wooden homes, and birds were found incubating their
eggs placed upon bare boards. All but one nest was on the ground,
the exception being a nest placed in the single remaining young
coconut.

sird Key has been reduced to about half its former size by wind and
waves, and the warden’s house, which some years ago was trans-
ported from the west side to the center of the island, has been de-
stroyed, the roof now resting upon the ground. This marks the en-
croachment of the sea, which has eaten away the western half of the
island.

Figures 72 and 73 show glimpses of conditions as they obtained
this summer. They should be compared with the illustrations in the
paper referred to above.

CERION COLONIES

Prior to my experiments with Cerion breeding, it was generally
held that these land mollusks were very plastic and readily responded
to annual differences in environment; for example, it was held by
some that a dry year might produce a dwarf progeny, a wet year with
its more luscious vegetation, the opposite, and that the many forms
which characterize the Bahamas, for example, might best be consid-
ered merely responses to temporary environmental conditions. Our
breeding experiments have already determined that the Bahaman
Cerions require three years to attain maturity, and the West Indian
four, which eliminates the seasonal effect. All our experiments to
date, with one exception, have shown that during the interval of our
experimentation, the various generations produced under the changed
environmental conditions, and these are many, have produced no
recognizable changes in the progeny of the different generations. Our
hybridization experiments, on the other hand, have brought to light
what I believe to be the basis of mutation. In both of the instances re-
ported here and elsewhere where we have crosses of unrelated species
an enormous number of mutants have appeared in the second genera-
tion, paralleling such observations as have been noted for Lamarck’s
evening primrose and the fruitflies. I have elsewhere recorded a simi-
lar state of affairs for the genus Cerion, which I have found taking
place in nature without the intervention of man.
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, I93I1 77

Fic. 74.—Three views of deep-sea dredging operations on board the Anton

Dohrn, the yacht of the Marine Biological Laboratory of the Carnegie
Institution.
78 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

On Loggerhead Key the colonies of Cerion casablancae and Cerion
viaregis are in excellent condition. The small colony of Cerion in-
canum between the dining hall and the water tower is doing well.
From the mixed Colony I of Cerion casablancae and C. viaregts I
gathered all the dead specimens—some 200—in order to study them
at my leisure in Washington, to determine if the shells show any
signs of hybridization of these two species. The colony of Cerion cras-
silabris from Porto Rico, while not in a flourishing state, is, never-
theless, holding its own. On Loggerhead Key all the other West
Indian transplants have disappeared, including the huge importation
of Cerion uva from Curacao.

Fic. 75.—Eight hybrids of Cerion incanum and
q

Cerion viaregis produced in cages on Loggerhead

Key, Fla.

The most interesting part of the Cerion problem, however, hinges
upon the low cages in each of which I had planted a specimen of
Cerion viaregis and Cerion incanum. Here I obtained six adult speci-
mens of the first generation hybrids, one almost adult, and young
individuals. These we have planted in a similarly constructed cage,
6 x 6 feet in size, and it is hoped that we may obtain second generation
progeny from them.

No survivors were found on all the little artificial islands which
have been reported upon previously.

On Garden Key, I was greatly surprised to find three of the five

Cuban species planted on the parapet in 1924 thriving, namely, Cerion
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1931 79

mummia, Cerion chrysalis, and Cerion tridentata. Two, Cerion sculp-
tum and Cerion species?, seem not to have survived.

On the morning of September 22 we set out for Key West in the
launch Darwin, stopping at Boca Grande Key to determine the state
of our Cerion viaregis colony there. This place seems to have been
persistently burned over, even the Government beacon about which we
scattered our mollusks failing to furnish protection, as it too has been
burned down.

We next visited Man and Boy Keys, and found that on both of
these islands the places where our colonies had been planted were
burned over. And, as on Boca Grande, not even a single dead shell
was to be found.

On September 23 we set out for Miami on the Darwin, and made
our first stop on New Found Harbor Key. Here we found the hybrid
colony Cerion viaregis * Cerion incanum flourishing. Mr. Munson,
the owner of the island, has well kept his promise to protect these
mollusks. I took 200 specimens, 100 for cytologizing and 100 for the
National Museum collection at Washington. This did not make a
serious inroad in the colony.

Our next stop was on Bahia Honda, where I received several sur-
prises. The first was the finding of a thriving colony of Cerion in-
canum in the elevated sandy stretch of the southeast portion of the
island. In all our previous visits to this key we were unable to find
any living specimens of Cerion incanum. Dead shells, it is true, were
buried in the sand in many places, but so were those of Orystyla
undata. I took several hundred of these shells for the collection at
Washington.

The second surprise was a hybrid between Cerion incanum and
Cerion casablancae. These hybrids occur about the junction of the
incanum colony and the colony of Cerion casablancae on the south
side of the ditch that divides the Cerion casablancae colony. Judging
from the great diversity of form among these hybrids, I believe them
to represent, at least in part, second generation material. Next to the
New Found Harbor Key colony I consider this the greatest return
in the hybridization work. Figures 76 and 77 show a hundred of
these mollusks ; the specimens are now in the collection of the United
States National Museum.

Still a third surprise was a change in size

even apparent in the
field—in the members of the Cerion casablancae colony on the north
side of the ditch. Comparing the average measurements, as well as

6
INSTITUTION

SMITHSONIAN

8o

-}0q) aIuD/GQvsvI °F ay} 0 (QZ “Sy Jo doz) wus
‘AON BpuopY eye uO si AUOJOD ay ‘satdads OM} asat
-SIJ Ul UMOYS sso} YIM 1943980} YOIyA ‘avI2uD)GQvsp

“(£2 ‘sy Jo wo}
ur“) 94} WOI} UOWYPRIS B SMOYS UOTI]aIS INQ) “ePy
]} UZIMJoq PoJI}o IB} OS SsO41D 4sIY 94} JUaSdIda1 QZ 91n
I UOldaD X WNUDIUI U014d) JO splaqdy AVrI—'o9Z ‘OIN

SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, I93I1

81

.—Fifty more hybrids of Cerion incanum X Cerion casablancae.

ice, G74
82 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

the greatest and least altitude and diameter of a check series measured
in 1920 with the present results, we obtain the following table:

No. of Altitude Diameter
whorls of shell of shell
peecey sa f Check series vette eens 10.92 27.19 TU,
| Bahia Honda series.... 10.05 23.118 11.592
Crete oN (Check “seties 720 4. Ital 32.9 15.6
\ Bahia Honda series.... 11.4 28.3 1333
Cr ee f Check SELICS Mee 10.0 24.0 11.0
| Bahia Honda series.... 8.6 18.5 10.2

This shows plainly that there has been a decided tendency toward
dwarfing in all measurements in this colony; the single increase of
0.3 of a whorl in one of the hundred specimens seems negligible. It
would be interesting to know the factors that are responsible for this.

We next visited Cerion Key, wrongly listed as Duck Key in 1912
when we planted 500 Cerion viaregis here. As on several previous
visits, not a Cerion was to be found, the rank grass having completely
swamped them.

Anchoring near Tea Table Key for the night I visited that island
at dusk and was very pleasantly surprised to find the colony of Cerion
casablancae flourishing to such an extent that I was easily able to
pick up Too specimens from the vegetation bordering the north shore
of the island. These are now in the United States National Museum.

A comparison of the average measurements, as well as the great-
est and least altitude and diameter of the check series with similar
measurements of the specimens from Tea Table Key, yields the fol-
lowing table:

No. of Altitude Diameter
whorls of shell of shell
¢ Check GEREN Goocossec 10.92 27.19 G7
IAVELARECY 1. wie). Te: ae: aa hae i
| Tea Table Key series.. 10.537 28.097 12.703
iCheclkeaseriesi lec seuss + a: LLad 2, 15.€
Greatest ..... ons S a ra 3 9 5-9
\ilea Dable Keyvseries\. .115 32. 15.1
ie ( Checksseries --.....-% 10.0 24.0 11.0
\ Tea Table Key series.. 9.5 23.8 11.2

This shows that the Tea Table colony has continued to breed true
to type.

On August 24 we visited Indian Key where a careful search failed
to show Cerions. This colony, too, is extinct.

Later in the day Sands Key and the Ragged Keys were subjected
to an equally careful search, but all of these failed to reveal Cerions.
The colonies near Miami must therefore be considered wiped out—one
of the results of the Florida boom, which changed these keys from
primitive tangles into estates and building lots.
COEMECTING FLIES IN RHE GASPE’ PENINSULA OF
PASTE RN QUEBEC

By Jo MAL DRICEH

Associate Curator, Division of Insects, U. S. National Museum

That portion of eastern Quebec lying south of the St. Lawrence
River is included in the so-called Gaspé Peninsula. This region has
several features of interest to the student of geographic distribution.
For one thing it represents the extreme northeast end of the Ap-
palachian Mountain system, which terminates, as far as the main
land is concerned, at Cape Gaspé, although the mountains of New-
foundland are considered to belong to the same system.

A second feature of interest is that this region is separated by a
comparatively narrow body of salt water (the Lower St. Lawrence)
from Labrador. The latter region includes many plants and insects
of the northern circumpolar region, in other words, species occurring
in Northern Europe and Asia as well as in North America. I was
interested in endeavoring to learn whether any of the characteristic
northern flies of Labrador could be found on the south side of the
St. Lawrence.

About three years ago a graveled automobile road was completed
around the entire outer edge of the Gaspé Peninsula with a connecting
link from St. Flavie across the base of the peninsula, forming a loop
about 525 miles in length. It has therefore become possible quite re-
cently to explore the peninsula by automobile and this was the pur-
pose of my trip carried out in July, 1931.

Leaving Washington on the first day of the month, accompanied by
my wife, we drove through New England and New Brunswick to
Shippigan, a fishing town at the northeast point of the province of
New Brunswick. Here we turned west and followed the south shore
of Bay de Chaleur to its head at Metapedia, where we entered the
province of Quebec. Turning eastward we followed the automobile
road close to the seashore to the eastern extremity of the province
at the town of Gaspé, and after a few days continued west along the
north side of the peninsula, returning to Washington via the cities of
Quebec and Montreal.

The Peninsula is almost entirely without settlement in its interior,
the population living in a very narrow strip along the seashore all the
way around the margin. A railroad extends along the south side to

83
84 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Fic. 78.—Gaspé Bay, looking northeast from Buckley’s Camp, Gaspé.
Daisies grow so luxuriantly that they soon crowd out the timothy in the
hay fields.

Fie. 79.—Head of Gaspé Bay, looking northwest. Note the settlement
confined to ocean shore.
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, I931 85

Si ee

Fic. 80.—Cape Gaspé, north side, looking east against the sun. Gasoline
launches used in cod fishing are at anchor in foreground.

Fic. 81.—Riviere a la Martre, Gaspé. :
86 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

the town of Gaspé and another line extends from the city of Quebec
along the north side of the peninsula to Matane, but eastward from
Matane to the tip of the peninsula is a strip of nearly 200 miles not
provided with any railroad, where the new automobile road is the
only means of communication except the ocean.

Of course, the entire population is French and we found compara-
tively few people who could speak English, even those in charge of
the hotels. Tourist business, however, is increasing so rapidly that it
seems inevitable that more provision will be made in the near future
for travellers who speak only English.

The country is very beautiful and we enjoyed every hour of our
stay init. I found it much more difficult than I had expected to reach
the higher altitudes of the mountains in the interior; so | was unable
to collect on any real mountains at all, although altitudes of 600 to 800
feet were occasionally attained. A considerable number of flies were
collected, representing many species, most of which however seemed
to be the commoner forms occurring in the Appalachian Mountain
system much farther south.

A good deal of attention was given to collecting the species of flies
characteristic of the seashore, in the hope that some of the Labrador
forms would make their appearance here. As far as the material has
yet been studied, however, it seems that no striking northern forms
were found; from which the preliminary conclusion is drawn that the
breadth of the Lower St. Lawrence is sufficient to form a barrier
against the spread of the northern flies southward. Curiously enough
I repeatedly found on the seashore of this peninsula the same species
of flies I have often collected on the shore of Chesapeake Bay, near
Washington, D. C. These flies have a much wider distribution north-
ward than had hitherto been supposed, which was one of the inter-
esting discoveries of my trip.

We found the automobile a very satisfactory means of travel. We
did not try to make very long daily journeys, stopping to collect 1n-
sects occasionally. At night we stopped at tourist camps where these
were available, and where there were none, we made use of the hotels
of the country.

My illustrations are from photographs that I took on the Gaspé
Peninsula.
COLLM CHING GRASSES, IN TEXAS, LOUISIANA, AND
NORTHEASTERN MEXICO

By J. R. SWALLEN
Section of Grasses, U. S. National Museum

The territory including Louisiana, Texas, and northeastern Mexico
contains many varied and interesting grasses. During April, May,
and June, I made a trip to various localities in this region to study this
element of the flora in the spring and early summer. Arriving at

3rownsville, Tex., early in April, I spent about two weeks in collect-
ing in the Rio Grande Valley and on the Coastal Plain as far north as
Sarita.

During recent years the Rio Grande Valley has greatly developed its
agricultural resources—so much, in fact, that 1f the same rate of ad-
vance is continued in the future, it will not be many years until the
native flora will be largely a thing of the past. As the soil is naturally
very fertile all that is needed to bring it into productivity is clearing
of the land and a sufficient water supply. Where there was once
mesquite and cacti, truck farms and orange groves now flourish. It is
highly desirable that as much of the original flora as possible be known
before it is gone forever. Of especial interest along the Rio Grande
is the grove of the endemic palm (Sabal texana).

In sharp contrast to the rich valley are the sandy stretches of
Kennedy and Willacy counties, an excellent region for grasses which
provide good forage for cattle. Characteristic of this region are the
low sand hills—areas of barren, loose, shifting sands. It is not diffi-
cult at places to imagine oneself in the midst of a vast desert.

The month of May was spent in the state of Tamaulipas, Mexico, a
region that has scarcely been touched by botanical explorations. The

area is a rolling plain, with mountains in the south and central por-
tions, and is only slightly developed. Stock raising, for which the
country is well suited, is one of the principal industries. Fruits, hene-
quin, and sugar cane are among the principal agricultural products.
For several days I collected near Victoria, the capital of the state, and
in the foothills of the Sierra Madre nearby. The lower part of the
mountains supports a dense growth of brush and small trees, making
travel difficult off the regular trails. The upper slopes, however, are
more open and are covered with a dense growth of various kinds of

87
88 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

i
¢
“

Fic. 82—One of the hills of shifting sand in Kennedy County, Tex.

aie

Fic. 83.—Low sand dunes on Padre Island off the coast of Texas. The

.

vegetation here is mainly Sporobolus virginicus.
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1931 89

Fic. 84—A view along the main ridge of the Great Smoky Mountains
looking from Thunderhead to Gregory Bald.
c=) oa 2

paar tee ad

me RS 4%
ote Fe ee ee :
es a See

Fic. 85.—Near the summit of Thunderhead are brilliantly colored azaleas
and rhododendrons which contrast sharply with the brilliant green of the
grassy meadow.
gO SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

grasses, one of the more frequent being a species of Epicampes, a
genus which is rather common in the mountains of Mexico.

I made a short trip to Jaumave, which is situated in a mountain
valley to the southwest of Victoria, where a large amount of henequin
is grown for fiber. However, the season was a little too early in the
mountains for profitable collecting.

The largest and most interesting part of my collections I obtained at
El Chamal, about 7 miles from the coast and a short distance north of
the Soto la Marina River. The grass flora is surprisingly rich in this
locality, owing in part at least to the diverse habitats, which vary from
open sandy grasslands to rich brushy woodland. A large proportion
of the species found were either additions to the flora of Mexico or
extensions of known ranges.

The work in Louisiana included a study of the marsh lands of
Cameron Parish and a visit to Last Island. Last Island is one of a
series of islands a short distance off the coast in the Gulf of Mexico.
They are of special interest in that they are gradually disappearing and
eventually may be reduced to nothing more than sand bars. A number
of years ago Last Island was a well-wooded, popular resort, and hotels
were maintained there. Severe storms, however, have completely de-
nuded it, and the only inhabitants are a few scattered fishermen.
From the mainland it appears only as a dark line on the horizon.
About 12 species of grasses are found there, one of them being a little-
known species of Andropogon which is common on some of the low
sand dunes.

Toward the last of June I made collections in the vicinity of Biloxi,
Miss., and in the Great Smoky Mountains of Tennessee.

During the three months’ trip a total of nearly 1,000 specimens were
collected, together with the necessary information concerning them.
ANTHROPOLOGICAMO WORK IN ALASKA

By ALES HRDLICKA
Curator, Division of Physical Anthropology, U. S. National Musewm

My work in 1931 extended to the Nushagak, Molchatna, and Wood
rivers, Bristol Bay, the Kvichak River, parts of the Iiamna Lake
region, and portions of Kodiak Island. It consisted, as in previous
years, of anthropometric observations on the living, and of the col-
lection of the older skeletal as well as archeological material, involv-
ing considerable excavation. The results were gratifying, definitely
clearing up a number of problems, and adding over 100 boxes of
specimens to our collections.

The success of the work in these difficult and isolated regions was
largely due to the generous aid extended to me by the Alaska Pack-
ers Association, San Francisco, through its Vice-President, B. R. Hart,
and its Superintendents, particularly Gordon Jones in Larsen Bay ;
by the Pacific American Fisheries, through its Vice-President, A. W.
Shiels, and its Superintendents, especially F. Daly, A. D. Daly, and
A. S. Foster; by the officials and employees of the United States
Bureau of Fisheries, particularly Dr. W. H. Rich and F. Lucas ; and
by many individual friends. Especial thanks among the latter are
due to Mrs. Laura Jones, of Larsen Bay, who not only donated a
series of rare specimens but aided me in every possible way and even
assisted, with Doctor Rich, Mr. Hart, and other friends, in the actual
excavations. Much valuable aid and hospitality was also received, and
is hereby gratefully acknowledged, from P. A. Berglund, Superinten-
dent of the Northwestern Cannery at Naknek; from Chris Nielson, at
Koggiung ; from Hans Sieverson of the Iliamna Lake; and from the
captain and other officers of the steamships Chirikof, Chilcat, Ad-
mirally, Crane, and Lakina.

The work began in the latter part of May at the head of Bristol
Bay, but as the ground was still much frozen, I proceeded to Dilling-
ham, on the Nushagak River, where I hired a small trapper’s boat
and with this and the aid of Butch Smith, its owner, covered in three
weeks over 600 miles of the Nushagak River and its tributaries. The
region was found to be but very sparsely peopled now, the total num-
ber of natives reaching barely over 200, most of them mixed bloods.
3ut there we found a good number of old sites, at least one of which
was of greater extent than any seen on the more northern rivers.

OI
g2 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

There were indications that all these villages existed up to the time of
the coming of the Russians and some even until the arrival of Ameri-
cans, the last remnants of their people dying out during the influenza
epidemic of 1919. The natives now on these rivers are almost all
later comers with accretions from places as far distant as Togiak and
the Kuskokwim. No part of this region had ever been touched by a
scientific man and it therefore presented a virgin field for exploration.
The old sites yielded much precious skeletal material, but all attempts
at archeological excavation had to be abandoned for the time, owing
to complete lack of labor.

The measurements on the living and the skeletal remains showed
conclusively that the entire watershed of the Nushagak, with the
probable exception of the uppermost reaches of the Molchatna, was
peopled by a uniform type of Eskimo population, identical with that
of the Kuskokwim basin. The burials also were of the Kuskokwim
type, with local modifications. A few of the burials in the old sites
had been above ground, but the majority were from 23 to 35 feet deep
in the ground, which was still partly frozen. The bodies in the older
burials were invariably in the contracted position.

Upon return to Naknek a second effort was made to excavate the
burials of the old “ Aleut” village of Pawik, uninhabited for at least
75 years and covering a large site on the high right bank of the Naknek
River, not far from its mouth. But the ground was still frozen
so deeply that not much could be done, and so I proceeded 35 miles
westward, to the Egigik River. Here was found the very advantage-
ously situated burial ground of the old Egigik village, and a few days
of trenching and other excavation produced some excellent material.
Here is also one of the shortest and still used passes across the
Peninsula. It takes but nine hours with a small motor boat and
over the short portage to reach the Pacific.

All through these regions and those visited later there were heard
tales, both from the natives and the old white settlers, of former 1n-
cursions from the Kuskokwim, from Togiak, from Kanakak, and even
from the western ‘‘ Aleut” territory, and of consequent “ battles,”
some of which ‘‘ made the waters run red.” It was invariably those
from the north or the west who were attacking the people of the
eastern parts of the Peninsula. The results of this were the intro-
duction of more or less newer blood and customs, but also more or
less local breaking up or depopulation. The complete extinction of the
old peninsular villages however is ascribed invariably to epidemics
brought by the white man, the final blows having been the several
attacks of the “ flu.” That of 1919 left so many dead in places that
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1931 93

Fic. 86.—Our boat on the Nushagak River, off Kakwak. Approximately
600 miles of the Nushagak and affluent rivers were covered in this boat,
which also carried our gasoline, provisions, empty boxes, specimens, and
tools.

Be ae

ee

Fic. 87—Nushagak River, June 5. Deep snow on north bank, 30 miles
above Dillingham. In places the snow and ice were still up to ro feet in

thickness. The frozen ground in these regions constitutes a great obstacle
to excavation.
INSTITUTION

SMITHSONIAN

O4

‘pjo sxeaX 1 ynoqe ‘pooyqyny ‘19yysnep
SEM On Nb

“JOATY YYYLL Yeuesieyy—o6g

9)

‘po saeof gi ynoqe “pooyqyny ‘Aoq
EEE) SEN

JOATY AMPYLL “Yeuesyeyy—gg “oy

SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, I931 95

the United States Coast Guard Service had to be called on for the
disposal of the bodies.

From Egigik I returned for the third time to the important Pawik
site on the Naknek River and this time, thanks to the kind aid and
hospitality of P. A. Berglund, Superintendent of the nearby North-
western Cannery, and because of the advanced season, it was possible
to unearth a series of old skeletons, as well as a fair collection of
archeological remains. A particularly interesting find among the latter
was that of parts of four slate arrow or dart points of the “ Folsom
type,” one of which lay in the deposits near a blue Russian bead.
Another point of the same type had been obtained previously on the
Nushagak River, and the same bilateral fluting is common .in the
points of the fossil ivory culture of the Bering Strait region.

The next prolonged stop was on the Kvichak River, 4 miles from
its mouth in the Iliamna Lake. Here on the left bank of the river
exists a large old site, abandoned “ long ago,” which notwithstanding
much frost and ice in the ground could be explored with some ade-
quacy, thanks to the aid of the fine lot of boys from the nearby weir-
camp of the Bureau of Fisheries, headed by Fred Lucas, and which
yielded very valuable material.

From the Kvichak two trips were made to the great Hiamna Lake,
which although not rich in anthropological results yielded some ob-
servations on a remnant of living “Aleut” natives at the Newhalen
River, and four fine “ Kenai” skeletons from Knud’s Bay.

The route then led, in company with Mr. Hart, across the 12-mile
portage to Iliamna Bay on Cook’s Inlet, and, with the invaluable aid
of one of his boats, to Larsen Bay on Kodiak Island.

The work in Uyak and Larsen bays, Kodiak Island, proved from
the start one of absorbing interest. It is another virgin field, and
proved to be one of unexpected richness. With the help of excellent
friends, Mr. Hart, Mr. and Mrs. Jones, Doctor Rich, Mr. Barnaby,
and others, I was soon able to locate a series of sites, several of which
were of considerable extent, and the excavations in one of these proved
so fruitful from the first day that they were carried on for 15 days
without interruption. Not a day elapsed without the discovery of some
unique specimen ; some of the objects showed remarkable art, hitherto
wholly unknown from these regions. Much skeletal material was also
recovered.

The site in which the excavations were carried on is on an elevated
rocky point projecting into Uyak Bay. It extends both back and
laterally and covers approximately about two acres. Over this

7
96 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Fic. 90.—Woods Lake. Old site at mouth of Woods River. Depopulated
during the last epidemic of influenza.

Fic. 91Woods Lake site excavations. Strenuous work in the jungle
which obscured traces of ancient burials. ‘Butch’? Smith on the right,
the writer taking out an old skeleton.
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, I931 9

Fic. 92—Kaskanok, Kvichak River. The Bureau of Fisheries boys at
the excavations. Doctor Rich farthest on the right. These men, and par-
ticularly the third from the left, have helped much in the author's excava-
tions on the river.

Fic. 93 —Kodiak Island, Uyak Bay. Jones Point, from the east. The top
of the elevation in middle and all the background to the extent of about
2 acres is covered by an important pre-Russian site. It was here that excava-
tions were conducted. The site has been named by the author in honor of Mrs.
Jones, who made the original excavations on the site.
98 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

the remains of semisubterranean dwellings and their accumulations
(kitchen refuse) range from approximately 4 to over 15 feet in
depth, reaching collectively about 500,000 cubic feet of ashes, shell
detritus, rubble, and earth, throughout all of which are found with
more or less frequency specimens of cultural nature, with animal and
human bones. According to all indications this site is one of the oldest
yet discovered in the far north. The lack of all traces of white man,
wood reduced to streaks of formless brown rot, and the considerable
filling in of the dwelling depressions with subsequent burials in these
by later natives, all point to the conclusion that the site is prehistoric,

ee

Fic. 94.—Jones Point, Uyak Bay, Kodiak Island. Excavations by the
writer on the east side of the point. Mrs. Jones standing to the left of the
excavation.

pre-Russian, and that its occupation extended for a relatively long
time backward. The deposits, further, are not homogeneous and
may be the result of repeated occupation.

As on the Nushagak and on Bristol Bay, I was confronted here
with an enormous and highly promising task, and at the same time
with a total lack of labor. The very few whites and natives that live
on the bay were all fishing, and the cannery, with the unexpectedly
large run of fish this year, was itself short of labor. Asa great favor,
nevertheless, they gave me one of the dock hands to help for two
weeks with the shoveling. With him, though he observed strictly
union rules and hours, and the help each day of from one to four
friends, it was possible to make four satisfactory ‘‘ incisions ” into the
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, I931 99

edges of the deposits, besides a few trenches and holes in the more cen-
tral parts of the site, all of which resulted in 19 boxes of specimens.
The burial ground of the site, which may contain many skeletons, was
not discovered, and a vast amount of promising material remains to be
worked over. This must be the task of another season and under
better conditions so far as help is concerned.

Besides the work at the site just mentioned, which in honor of
Mrs. Laura Jones I have called the “ Jones Point Site,” visits were
made to the important region of Karluk Village and River on the
northern shore of the island; to Chiefs Point, at the head of the Uyak
Bay ; to Amok Island, deep in the bay ; and to the head of Larsen Bay.
At all these places were found large and important sites that call for
exploration. And many other sites were reported in different other
parts of the island, calling for a survey of the whole region.

This summer’s exploration and anthropometric observations have
resulted in clearing or settling the following hitherto obscure points:

The natives of the Nushagak River and watershed are definitely all
Eskimo. They belong to the southwestern type of the race, are identi-
cal with the Kuskokwim and the neighboring Tundra Eskimo, and
are largely if not entirely derived from these.

The Peninsula was a regular sieve for movements of people from
the north southward. There is a whole series of passes more or less
easily practicable for even primitive people. About every 30 to 40
miles from east to west a good sized “river” extends for various
distances from the north into the peninsula, ending in one or more
lakes from which generally smaller streams lead farther southward
to within a short distance of streams that run towards the Pacific.
People such as the Eskimo or the Indian could readily, it was seen,
have come along the western coasts, reached these passes and carried
their skin boats over the few rapids and portages, after which they
found themselves close to or within Shelikof Strait, facing the visible
Kodiak Island, or in Cook’s Inlet; and from both of these regions
the way towards the northwest coast and the rest of the continent
was open. This was plainly the most natural and the easiest way of
procedure for all comers from the Bering Sea and northwestern Asia.
The peopling of America therefore, as surmised before, took place not
through Alaska but along its western coasts and through the Peninsula.

The now nearly extinct people of the eastern half of the Peninsula,
from probably. beyond Port Moller to and including the Kvichak
River, though they uniformly called themselves “Aleuts,” were found
in substance to be the same as those of the Nushagak, the Togiak, and
the Kuskokwin regions, and are doubtless of the same old derivation.
INSTITUTION

SMITHSONIAN

TOO

‘sayour fg ‘ysuoT
‘pue[sy yeIpoy ‘Aeg yex~, ‘yulog Sauof ye uoeAeoOXa UI
Ja}4IM 94} Aq punoy ‘ainziesjiod s[qeyivuiat e Surmoys ‘qt
ayeymM e& JO JNO paaieo JuRepuead jsvoiq adie] W—'96 “DIY

‘soyour € ‘yyslofY ‘“9U0}S YIIM prIe[UT usaq sary
ABUL S}PIGIOQ “juepuad yseoiq eB A[qeqoig ‘afoyM 94} surljunou
-Ins UMOID JO }10S B pue UOlJe1OD9p aos os[e ‘ainyeszi0d
a[qeyieuiot eB Ssurmoys anbejd A1oAT plo [njneag——S6 ‘Iq
IOI

SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, I931

, *‘Soyout FOL ‘Yjsue]
94} UO SSUTATeS 19430 PUB [MO 24} JO Peay ay} Je sInsy UuPUNnY
sijy Aq Wnosnyy [PUOTJENY
‘pur[s] yRiIpoy ‘Aeq HPAL) Ur 9}Is
ueissny-otd e wor} due] au0}s adie] B yo yde1s0j04q— 46 “OL

‘Q0Bf.INS XIAUOD
‘sayout 6 ‘yysuaT “YseAA ‘aII}e9g ‘[peqqnA Ase Mousueauigad
! : : S)

jo Ajstodoig
S9}€}S pails) 94} 01 payeuog

-Y1eWaI OM} SMOYS [MO 94],
JU0}S ISIP]

‘sayeyM yoR[q jo Sainsy painqdynos nyyywey Alqe
‘e[Nsuluag leusy ‘Avg YyeuUayoRy
[BUISsI10 40

‘souof PBine|

ydeis0j04q—'g6

102 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

The root of the word Al-eut is really, it seems, “ute,” meaning
+ people,” and identical with the ute ‘or uit)’ in” Une” (Cpro-
nounced “ In-ute’’) in “ Mahlem-ute” and other names ending
similarly, of the Eskimo further north. There are only some dialectic
with a few cultural differences between these “Al-utes” and the
people of Nushagak, Kanatak, Togiak, Kuskokwim.

These eastern “Al-utes ” extend, or did so in the recent past, over
the Iamna Lake to Newhalen River and Knud’s Bay, on the northern
shore, where they met with or superseded the Kenai; and they ex-
tended along the whole southern shore, though there were but a few
settlements. The Kenai began at Newhalen River, Knud’s and neigh-
boring harbors, and at Hiamna Village, extending thence to the Clark
Lakes and Cook’s Inlet.

The lines of demarkation between these eastern eskimoid Al-utes
and the neighboring “‘ Kenai” are not very distinct and many in-
dividuals of either group cannot be distinguished from those of the
other, but in general the Kenai in their physiognomies approach
more closely the Indian.

The Kodiak Island culture presents considerable individuality, and
evidence of considerable age. It shows a relationship on one hand
to that of the Eskimo, and on the other to that of the northwest
coast. The skeletal remains appear to resemble those of the eastern
AL-ute, but show also other interesting characteristics.

Kodiak Island shows the first trace in the far north of cranial de-
formation, of the cradle-board variety (occipital flattening). But this
was not universal.

The remains on Kodiak Island show numerous and unmistakable
signs of long-continued cannibalism.

The numerous old rich deposits on Kodiak Island, hitherto un-
touched, open an important new, large, and promising field for Ameri-
can exploration.
ARCHEOLOGICAL INVESTIGATIONS IN NORTHERN
ALASK”

[Bae IBUBINIROY 18 (COINS, IIR
Assistant Curator, Division of Ethnology, U. S. National Museum

In continuation of the Institution’s program of investigation of
prehistoric Eskimo cultures, Messrs. James A. Ford and Moreau B.
Chambers were detailed to carry on archeological work in Alaska
during the past summer. Mr. Ford had spent the summer of 1930 in
Alaska, principally on St. Lawrence Island, with the writer. Attention
was directed again to St. Lawrence Island, just south of Bering
Strait, where the previous excavations had revealed abundant evidence
of the ancient and highly developed Old Bering Sea culture. In addi-
tion, the work was extended to Point Barrow on the Arctic coast,
which apparently marked the eastern limit of this culture. The St.
Lawrence investigations were conducted by Mr. Chambers, while Mr.
Ford proceeded to Point Barrow.

As in previous years, transportation from Seattle was furnished
by the Coast Guard Cutter Northland, and especial thanks are due
to Capt. E. D. Jones for his usual interest and cooperation. While
waiting at Unalaska for the ice in the Bering Sea to break up there was
opportunity for excavating to some extent in the large kitchenmiddens
which mark the sites of two of the prehistoric Aleut villages on
Amaknak Island. The middens in this part of Alaska are large in
extent, and being unfrozen, are relatively easy to excavate; but, for
the same reason, many objects of a perishable nature have not been
preserved as is the case in the permanently frozen Eskimo middens
farther north where material such as wood, hides, and baleen is held
in perpetual cold storage.

A burial cave on a small island near Unalaska was also explored and
a collection of bones and artifacts dating from pre-Russian times was
obtained. The bodies apparently had been mummified and wrapped in
matting and other fabrics according to Aleut custom, for pieces of
dried flesh and fragments of the wrappings were found. However,
the cave had been disturbed previously and the bones and other ma-
terials were scattered about in confusion. One of the most interest-
ing objects found with the burials was a unique type of stone labret,
having two projections representing the upper central incisor teeth.

103
104. SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Late in June Mr. Chambers was put ashore at the Eskimo village
of Gambell, at the northwestern end of St. Lawrence Island, where
he remained until the Northland returned for him in September. Exca-
vations were carried on at several old village sites in the vicinity of
Gambell which, in 1930, had yielded a remarkably clear picture, or
cross section, of prehistoric Eskimo culture from a very early period
down to the present time.’ The material excavated by Mr. Chambers
adds to the completeness of the picture, furnishing additional links
between the several culture stages.

The oldest evidence of human occupancy thus far found on the Is-
land was obtained at a small village site near Gambell which was dis-
covered almost by accident. This site, on the lower slope of the
Gambell cape or mountain, had been completely covered over by moss
and tundra and the Eskimos living at Gambell, less than a mile away,
were not aware of its existence. Excavation has proved this to be a
pure site of the Old Bering Sea culture, a village which had been es-
tablished and abandoned during the period, many centuries ago, when
this rich old Arctic culture existed along the coasts of Siberia and
Alaska in the vicinity of Bering Strait.

The material excavated from this site and from the next oldest
site, nearby, affords a basis for a reconstruction in outline of the life
and habits of the Eskimos of the Old Bering Sea period. They lived in
small houses, square or rectangular in outline, which were built partly
underground and entered by means of a long narrow passageway. The
floors were of stone slabs and the walls were made of small drift-
wood timbers laid horizontally one above the other and held in place
with bone and wooden stakes. The nature of the roof construction has
not been determined clearly but it seems likely that timbers were also
employed for this purpose. These earliest St. Lawrence Eskimos lived
by hunting, very much as do those of the present day. The principal
animals captured were walrus, seals, and birds, and these supplied the
essential means of livelihood: blubber and meat for food ; oil for heat,
light and cooking; and skins for clothing, boat coverings, and other
purposes. Whaling occupied a much less prominent role in their lives
than it came to have among the later Eskimos. Many of the com-
mon implements in use at that time differed little or not at all from
those used centuries later. Their art, however, was unique, and it
is this feature which gives the Old Bering Sea culture its character-
istic stamp.

‘Ancient culture of St. Lawrence Island, Alaska. Explorations and Field-
Work of the Smithsonian Institution in 1930, pp. 135-144.
105

SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1931

‘g[AJs YNuNG a} Ul payesodap aie pue J9}R[ J1e 6 0}
Q Woy aSOY} !a[AJs BAS SBULI9g PIO PY} UI payerodop 91B S 0} IT WoI} potoquinu spofqo oyy, y4e OWLYsy S1410ysIYosd
JO Sa8vjS OM] SUIMOYS PURIS] SUaAIMET “JS UO SoseI[IA OUNLYSa Pauopueqe Worf payBavoxa syoa/qo AIOAT— 60 “DIY

100 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Fic. 100 —St. Lawrence Island Eskimos. Paul Silook, at left, and his family
at Gambell.

Fic. 101—The walls of an ancient Eskimo house begin to appear in one
of the excavations at Miyowaghameet, a deserted site near Gambell, St.
Lawrence Island.
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1931 107

Working with stone tools, these prehistoric Eskimo artists carved
from bone and walrus ivory their many and ingenious forms of imple-
ments, weapons, and ornaments. Some of their productions, such as
animal figures and human heads, are very good examples of carving
in the round, but the art that is most typical of the period consists of
a graceful arrangement of curving, flowing lines deftly incised on
ivory surfaces. The essential motives around which the designs center
are circular or elliptical figures, made free hand and usually slightly
raised so as to suggest the eyes of an animal; lightly incised lines,
some of them dotted, along with more deeply cut lines for contrast,
serve to balance and unify the designs. The beauty of the Old Bering
Sea pieces thus decorated is accentuated by the soft rich shades of
cream, brown, and even black which the ivory has assumed through
centuries of burial in the frozen soil.

After having flourished for centuries in northern Alaska and Si-
beria there came a time, probably more than a thousand years ago,
when certain aspects of the Old Bering Sea culture, particularly its
art, underwent rather sudden change. Instead of the skillfully ex-
ecuted curvilinear designs, the lines became deeper, straighter, and
more evenly incised, resulting in a style which while still graceful, was
distinctly inferior to that which had preceded it. This style of art has
been designated as Punuk, from the small island 4 miles off the
eastern end of St. Lawrence, where in 1928 it was first found in iso-
lation. At Gambell, Punuk art appears for the first time in the upper
levels of the second oldest site and overlies material of Old Bering
Sea type. In two other sites nearby it occurs exclusively, and at a
third site, very recent as shown by the presence of iron, glass beads,
and modern types of implements, it is scantily represented. There
is now a sufficient body of material from the old sites on St. Lawrence
to show that the simplified Punuk art was mainly an outgrowth of the
curvilinear art of the Old Bering Sea period, even though at first
glance the two styles appear hardly related.

While it is often a fruitless procedure to speculate on the causes
which may have brought about cultural changes in the remote past,
there is some evidence that a contributing factor toward the decline of
the rich Old Bering Sea art was the introduction of iron tools from
the Orient some hundreds of years before the arrival of the Russians
into northeastern Siberia in the seventeenth century. Authentic Chi-
nese records are known which show that iron was being used in north-

* Prehistoric art of the Alaskan Eskimo. Smithsonian Misc. Coll., vol. 81,
no. 14, 1929.
108 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

sastern Siberia in the third century A. D. This being the case, it would
be natural to assume that the neighboring Eskimos would likewise
have possessed some of the metal, if only in very small quantities. At
any rate, it is certain that the deeply and evenly incised lines and the
perfect circles of the Punuk period were produced with metal instru-
ments; and that these must have long antedated the time of first
Russian contact is shown by the fact that typical Punuk art is found
from top to bottom of 16-foot kitchenmiddens at old sites which ac-
cording to every indication have been abandoned for two hundred
years.

While the Old Bering Sea art was undergoing changes in the
western area around Bering Strait, as outlined above, modifications
along somewhat different lines were taking place farther to the east-
ward. Recent excavations 1n the central Eskimo area of northern
Canada and also in Greenland have brought to light evidence of a
widespread old Eskimo culture which has been designated as Thule.
Instead of being similar to the culture of the present Central Eskimo,
the old Thule culture shows a surprising resemblance to that of
Alaska. Indeed, the resemblances are so close and so many that there
can be no doubt but that the Thule culture had its origin in Alaska.
Thule types of implements, particularly harpoon heads, are found
also on St. Lawrence Island and at Bering Strait, but there they are
comparatively recent, being associated with the later stages of the
Punuk. As we proceed eastward along the Arctic coast, however,
Thule traits are seen to become more abundant, and since there have
been no systematic archeological investigations in this area the pre-
cise nature of the relationship between the two old cultures remains
to be determined. The most important strategic point for such an in-
vestigation seems to be Point Barrow, for according to present indica-
tions this was on the one hand the most easterly point to which the
Old Bering Sea culture extended and on the other the most westerly
point at which the Thule existed as a predominant type.

The determination of the exact relationship between the Old Ber-
ing Sea and Thule cultures was made one of the primary objectives
of the 1931 expedition, the investigation being intrusted to James A.
Ford.

After leaving the Northland at Nome, Mr. Ford continued north-
ward through Bering Strait and up the Arctic coast to Point Barrow
on the trading schooner Patterson. The Institution is greatly in-
debted to Capt. C. T. Pedersen for his assistance in furnishing
Mr. Ford with transportation. As originally planned, excavations
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1931 109

Fic. 102.—The Coast Guard cutter Northland plowing its way through the
ice in Norton Sound.

Fic. 103—Eskimos cutting up walrus killed on the ice off Wainwright, on
the Arctic coast of Alaska.

Fic. 104.—Umiak used by Mr. Ford in landing the mail and camp equip-
ment from the Patterson at Peard Bay. The 50 miles from Peard Bay to
Point Barrow was made with dog team and sled. See Figure 107.
110 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

about a month—hbe-

were to be made at Barrow during the period
tween the arrival of the Patterson and the departure of the last ship
late in August. However, ice conditions along the Arctic coast of
Alaska were the worst in many years, and the Patterson and the few
other ships bound for Barrow were greatly delayed. The following
extracts from letters received from Mr. Ford will give some idea of
the conditions encountered :

The 15th (of July) found us off Point Lay. Since then we have been waiting
for a favorable NE. wind to let us through but the southeasterlys have moved the
ice pack up to Wainwright. We have been back to Point Lay five times and to
Icy Cape so often that we are considering erasing the “of San Francisco” on
the stern and substituting “of Icy Cape.” .... While still stuck below Wain-
wright I took an Eskimo crew and worked along the shore in an umiak as
far as possible and walked in carrying the mail. I went so that I might have
an opportunity to examine several sites along the coast, but found none that
were very old. At Wainwright the teacher showed me some harpoon heads
he had purchased from a native living at the old site of Nunakaak, 23 miles
up the coast, which led me to make an examination of the site. As the sea was
closed I went by dog team and got in four days of work before the ice opened and
the Patterson picked me up. The harpoon heads we found were mostly modern
and Thule, no Birnirks.

Finally, after very slow progress through the ice pack, the Patter-
son reached Peard Bay, 50 miles below Barrow, and being unable to
proceed further, Mr. Ford left the ship in an umiak, taking with him
the mail for Barrow and the most necessary items of his equipment:

No one could say when or if we would get through. The more experienced
the ice man the less he said. Captain Pedersen wanted to get the first-class mail
into Barrow; I wanted to get to Barrow and also to see the coast, so as he
offered me his umiak, motor, and crew I took advantage of the first SE. wind—
which opens a narrow shore lead—to go ashore where I found a camp of Barrow
Eskimos just north of Skull Cliff. There I managed to scrape up 15 dogs and
an old broken down sled. The natives had to work several hours fixing the
sled with everything from baling wire to old Sunday neckties. We got over the
45 or 50 miles to Barrow with 200 pounds of mail and camp equipment in two
days—15 hours travelling time. The people at Barrow were glad to get their
mail but seemed even more delighted with the two packages of cigarettes I
happened to have. I arrived on August 16 and started work at Birnirk the
next day; worked until the 20th, finding Birnirk type harpoon heads in the top
layers of the mounds. The older sites up here are not continuous middens as on
St. Lawrence but each house is on a mound. These mounds are from 4 to 10
feet high, and dotted over a flat marshy place such as that occupied by Birnirk or
Nunakaak, they look very much like Indian mounds in the Southeast.

As the ground was already freezing and there was little chance of
getting any work done before the close of the season, Mr. Ford com-
municated by radio with the Museum, requesting permission to stay at
MEME

1931

<PLORATIONS,

Ee

SMITHSONIAN

-uIe |
posn

“yeRYLUNN 0} JYSLIM
\\ WOIF yseOd DOTY 9y} Suoye diay e suryeu ul
ay Wied} SOP dy} YUM ploy “y sotuef—9OI “OIF

‘pUNOISIIOY Ul SULYS Jeoq Ie]Oq ‘SsexO} JO Yyoyeo
If61 9y} Jo Jaed YUM ‘WYUSIIMUIeA, JB JOpeI. UvId}IA
‘Ud]PY Wf Jo 19}YSNep ‘Ud][Y sUTIoYyey SSIP_Y—SOI “OIYY

I12 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Barrow over the winter in order that he might get in a full season of
excavation in 1932. Permission being granted, he took advantage of
the presence of Capt. Ira Rank’s little trading schooner, the Trader,

Fic. 107,—When streams were reached the load was transferred to a kayak
or umiak, while the dogs swam across with the empty sled.

to make a trip to Barter Island, 300 miles to the eastward of Barrow
and almost to the Canadian boundary :

We stopped at every camp we could hear of and I asked all the usual
questions but not an “ipani igloo” (ancient house) did I see until we reached
3arter Island. Heard of two sites though and got a little material from them,
all modern and Thule. Could hear of no mounds like those at Birnirk or
Nunakaak. The country to the eastward is lovely and the mountains behind
Barter Island gorgeous, but the ice was bad and gave us plenty of trouble.

A further account of Mr. Ford’s explorations at Point Barrow this
coming summer will be given at a later time.
CULTURE SEQUENCES IN HAITI

By HERBERT W. KRIEGER
Curator, Division of Ethnology, U. S. National Museum

Much has been written about the mystery and charm of the Black
Republic of Haiti. From the days of the Spanish goldseekers, French
buccaneers, and colonial squires, through the eventful era of the black
king Christophe and his court at Sans Souci with its counts of Limon-
ade and dukes of Marmalade, through the political intrigues and
murders, caco raids and revolutions, to the days of the United States
Marine with his gendarmerie and Treaty Government—the theme of
Haitian culture-history is romantic indeed. Travel books of the people
of Haiti in a natural history setting with more or less fanciful allu-
sions of a historical flavor make delightful reading. The prosaic re-
ports of the Treaty Government, however, are more factual. The most
useful work dealing with the period of French occupation are the four
volumes by Moreau de Saint-Méry published in 1797-8. His detailed
historical narrative, observations on natural history, agriculture, and
on the slave population of the French colony are remarkable for their
accuracy.

Antedating these historical occupancies and culture sequences are
the first inhabitants, the original Haitians. Of these only the Arawak,
an offshoot of a South American linguistic stock, are known to lit-
erature. This people occupied the more humid northern coastal plain
and the Massif du Nord and at the time of the discovery were ruled
by a chief, Goacanageric, whose village, Guarico, was located in the
immediate vicinity of Cap Haitien. In the South, the center of Arawak
occupancy was in the Cul de Sac and the Plaine de Leogane, with the
chief’s village located where Port-au-Prince now stands. There, under
their beautiful ‘‘ queen”? Anacaona they had attained a culture level
superior, according to Spanish writers, to that existing elsewhere
throughout the ancient island of Haiti. The arid central portion
of Haiti, the valley of the Artibonite, was unsuitable for Indian
habitation.

It was with pleasure that the writer undertook the Smithsonian de-
tail to make an archeological reconnaissance of the country. The
early months of 1931, from January to May, were delightfully spent
in carrying on archeological investigations that took the writer from
one end of the Republic of Haiti to the other, from the ancient Arawak

113
eA: SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

province of Xaragua in the southwest to the Dominican border in the
east.. In the northern portions of the Republic excavations were made
at widely separated Arawak sites: one near Quanaminthe in the Mas-
sacre River valley; three in the confines of the valley of the Riviere
Romeo ; and five in the vicinity of the Bay of Forte Liberté, notably
near the villages of Paulette and Terrier Rouge; one on the Riviere
Trou, another near Caracol Bay; two near Cap Haitien and Petite
Anse in the Plaine du Nord; one on the Limbe River ; and two in the
vicinity of Gros Morne in the valley of Les Trois Rivieres. These
sites were trenched to obtain statistical samples of aboriginal pottery
and other midden debris for comparison with lots from northern
Santo Domingo obtained through excavations in the vicinity of Monte
Cristi in 1920.

In the Cul de Sac and on the Plaine de Leogane, where according to
Oviedo the Arawak Xaraguanians practiced a maize and a cassava
culture with the aid of irrigation, archeological studies were less pro-
ductive due to the obliterating influence of centuries of cropping in an
area of garden agriculture. In the arid Plaine du Hinche and in the
more humid Massif du Nord several pottery-yielding sites were lo-
cated and cave deposits, previously located by Abbott and Miller, were
worked.

Near the eastern end of the island of Tortua, which is in prox-
imity to the Haitian mainland in the vicinity of Port de Paix, cave
deposits revealed a succession of occupancies not the least interesting
of which are gun flints and other relics of buccaneer days. [le a Vache
(Cow Island), located in the Caribbean a few kilometers off the
southwestern coast of Haiti in the immediate vicinity of Les Cayes,
was repeatedly visited by motorboat, while Goat Island, located in the
bay within sight of Port-au-Prince, was explored by sailboat. Goat
Island is littered with Arawak midden débris, while Ile a Vache has
four large shell mounds, first sighted by Parish on the Parish-Smith-
sonian expedition of 1930.

The lake region of central Haiti, the eastern extension of the Cul
de Sac, is of interest because of the progressive lowering of the water

"The archeological study of Haiti is in continuation of work of a similar
nature carried on by the Smithsonian Institution in the Dominican Republic
during the years 1928-1930. These several expeditions were sponsored and
financed by the veteran explorer Dr. W. L. Abbott, who is responsible for much
of our knowledge of the natural history of Haiti and of Santo Domingo. Doctor
Abbott’s visits to the West Indies extended from 1883 to 1923, since when he has
sponsored biological and anthropological expeditions of Smithsonian scientists to
Santo Domingo and to Haiti.
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1931 115

Fre. 108.—The African trait of frequenting country roads for business
and for pleasure is not neglected in Haiti. A few of the many hundreds
of peasant women of the Cul de Sac who visit Port-au-Prince on market

days.

Fic. 1090.—Mills for the grinding of sugar cane have not improved much
since the departure of the French from Haiti more than one hundred
years ago. The manufacture of rum from the juice of the cane is still
the mainstay of the sugar industry. Mills of the type here shown from
the vicinity of Leogane are propelled by diminutive Haitian horses.
110 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

level in the several lake beds. The water, impregnated with salt, is in-
creasing in density owing to rapid evaporation. One of the lakes, Trou
Caiman, is now entirely dry, while another, Etang Saumatre, has re-
ceded much below its former shore line. Just over the Dominican
border on the east is the large Lake Enriquillo, whose present water
level is below that of the ocean. This may be in part due to diversion
of water fromthe Yaque River for purposes of irrigation. The shores
of these lakes yielded but little archeological material although the old
Indian trail from Naragua eastward to Santo Domingo followed the
ancient shore line. A decade ago a collection assembled by Mr. Peters
of Port-au-Prince from sites on the “ Isla de Cabritos ” in Lake Enri-
quillo was forwarded to the British Museum. The island is now a
part of the mainland.

Thanks to the energetic functioning of the Department of Public
Works under the direction of Commander Duncan of the United
States Navy, many of the principal Haitian roads are suitable for
travel by automobile. When it became necessary to travel along the
more typical Haitian trails recourse was had to the more popular horse
and mule transport. Sailboats were used to reach Goat Island and
several of the Arcadins west of the town of L’Archaie. Islands off
the southern coast in the vicinity of Aquin were also reached by sail-
boat, while it became necessary to hire a motorboat to encircle the
larger Ile a Vache. Grand Cayemitte and the small islands in Bara-
dere Bay were not visited, nor was the visit to the Island of Gonave
more than casual.

Haiti under present conditions is a peaceful country. People are
hospitable and willing to lend a hand in an emergency. They are not
at all the mysterious and cruel folk fiction writers would have them
be. Their almost universal poverty is correlated with a remarkable
freedom from economic opportunity. A dense population centers
about the more favored agricultural regions where rainfall is ample as
in the Plaine du Nord and in the Massif du Nord. The old Arawakan
irrigation system continued by the French planters and the modern
Haitians in the Cul de Sac and in the Plaine de Leogane makes pos-
sible the growing of crops sufficient to maintain a dense population in
the vicinity of the capital city, Port-au-Prince. In the large and fertile
but arid valley of the Artibonite River, the introduction of irrigation
is under consideration, but for the present agriculture there remains
restricted to a bean and corn crop planted on the sloping and moist
river banks.

In the Republic of Haiti the small self-sufficient garden planting is
the lineal descendant of the primitive clearing in the forest. It remains
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1931 Ty,

Fic. 110.—Varied, indeed, are the products offered for sale or barter in
the Haitian markets, though the amount of currency available is pitifully
small. The slump in the world demand for coffee, sugar, and for
exportable crops has greatly affected sales in the local markets. The market
shown is at Thomazique, a village in the Cul de Sac midway between Port-

au-Prince and the Dominican border.

other

A

Fic. 111.—Market day at Cavaillon in the southwestern peninsula. This
village has achieved vicarious fame through being the home town of Cator,
the holder of the world’s record in the broad jump. Not far distant are
the town of Les Cayes, the birthplace of Audubon, the famous naturalist ;
and the town of Jeremie, the birthplace of Dumas the elder.
118 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

a pathetic survival in view of the demands of a dense population hav-
ing no other means of existence.

Cultivation of exportable crops, as coffee, cotton, fiber, tobacco, and
other products, is languidly conducted. Logwood, exported in large
quantities as a dyewood in making a commercial black dye, and the
many products locally consumed are laboriously transported by horse
and donkey back or on the heads of human porters over the crowded
roadways to the principal markets of the country. The majority of
travelers are barefoot market-women, who journey either afoot or sit
sidewise on the diminutive donkeys (burriques) all the while beating
a tattoo on the bare flanks of the poor undernourished pack animal.
Wheeled vehicles are limited to the creaking ox-carts of the sugar
plantations. As the journey to market may consume several days and
nights, flop houses at the side of the road are a characteristic sight.
Hundreds of market-going folk may be encountered in the early hours
of the morning on the final stage of their journey, each one hoping,
perhaps, to sell the equivalent of a gourd’s worth (20 cents) of eggs,
indigo, or perhaps a bundle of woven straw hats each showing the
characteristic twilled decorative design in straw color and black. Their
journey may have taken them over mountains, or across deserts
where even drinking water must be transported in the inevitable cala-
bash container that shares the saddle bag with a live chicken or two,
a baby perhaps, or a few yams or oranges.

Market day reveals the teeming population engaged in intense ac-
tivity. Tiny portions of goat meat, squares of yellow soap, ropes,
woven baskets and bags, pitch-pine for torches, loose matches, nails,
buttons, small but artistically decorated clay pipes, squares of indigo,
cassava bread in large round flat slabs folded over, unground pepper,
rock salt, fruits, thread, unhulled rice, ground or shelled corn, beans
of several varieties, leather, old shoes in unassorted lots, candles of

beeswax, tin cans, bottles—all these and many other saleable articles
give evidence of native enterprise in an attempt to eke out a meager
existence. Saturday afternoon is market- and pay-day for the laborers
of the Haitian-American Sisal Corporation at Paulette. Thousands of
laborers and camp-followers are drawn to the scene. All of Saturday
night and Sunday is a period of marketing, singing, gambling, and
folk-dancing. The fire dance, executed solo, as are most Haitian
dances, 1s a sight never to be forgotten.

As the Haitians assembled at Paulette come from the entire
northern part of the Republic, it is possible to observe differences in
their physical appearance. Saint-Meéry, observing in 1797 similar dif-
ferences, accounts for them by the diverse origin to which he ascribes
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1931 11g

ee 4 wi ts
raster WN

Fic. 112.—Ruins of Sans Souci, the palace of the black king Christophe
near Milot at the foot of the Massif du Nord. Here were entertained
members of court and nobility created by Christophe, first king of the
Haitians. The Duke of Marmalade and the Count of Limonade received
their acrid titles from the names formerly bestowed by the French on
several of the northern provinces.

Fic. 113.—The citadelle here shown crowns the high peak in the Massif
du Nord known as the Bishop’s Bonnet. This monumental fortress was
erected by Christophe as a last defense against the French, should they
at any time return in force to again subdue their former African slaves.
SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Fic. 114.—In Port-au-Prince are the Champs de Mars and the adjoining Place
Independence with their brilliantly white plaster government buildings in the back-
ground.

When framed with the distant thunder-capped mountains and the azure sea
a most beautiful view is presented to the unaccustomed northern eye.

ewer
ir

Fic. 115.—Sizable natural caves in Haiti frequently take on a local name of Voute
l’Eglise (grotto of worship). In these caves are carried on animistic rituals commonly
known as Voodooism. The cave shown in the illustration, near Miragoane high up on the
cleft of the stone escarpment, is too small for use as a ‘‘ church cave.’ It did, however,
yield many sackfuls of animal benes brought there by owls.
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, I931 121

the African slaves. He names the distinct tribes and gives their
African habitat. The lighter-skinned Haitians of the southern prov-
inces betray admixture with the white race, while in the north mixed
bloods were killed during the period of the slave eruption.

Intercourse and travel throughout the Republic has ever been lim-
ited. Paved carriage roads built by the French have been allowed to
fall into disrepair. An occasional bare spot in the jungle growth re-
veals an abandoned flagged and curbed roadway with occasional
glimpses of tall gate posts and sections of walls of mortised brick
falling into oblivion. The wealthy French indigo, coffee, sugar and
rum planter was once the equal in wealth and prestige of the Ameri-
can tobacco planter. In his case there has been no culture sequence.
Black Haiti has absorbed but little of his culture.

While the century of French occupation is perpetuated in the arched
bridges, porticos, and houses still standing in the cities, and in the
occasional survival of a French sugar-mill, of the Spanish conquer-
ors there remains less trace than of the Indians whom they destroyed.
Spanish rule continued for more than one hundred years before they
retired before the French. Their influence may be noted in the names
of rivers, towns (e. g., Lascahobas), and places near the Dominican
border where Spanish nationality and influence is strong to the present
day. Haiti never was completely occupied by the Spanish as was Santo
Domingo. But little gold was to be had in Haiti after the Xaraguanians
were deprived of their golden ornaments and sacred objects. The few
Spanish colonists were readily absorbed by the French once a foot-
hold was obtained by the buccaneers at Cap Haitien.

Across the bay from, Cap Haitien is the village of Petite Anse, the
historic spot where Columbus founded the first [kuropean colony in
the New World. The colony, La Navidad, short-lived as it was, is of
interest here as a possible link in identifying the site of the native
village of Guarico, the seat of the Arawak chief Goacanageric who
became the friend of Columbus. The Gendarmerie exhibit with en-
thusiasm at their headquarters in Port-au-Prince a ship’s anchor re-
putedly found in the shallow waters of the bay at Petite Anse. It is
of a type that might have been carried by the Santa Maria, the flag-
ship of Columbus shipwrecked on Christmas Day, 1492, the timbers of
which were used to build the fortified structures that were to house
the 44 members of the La Navidad colony. It is probable that where
Cap Haitien now stands is the former site of Guarico ; at least tradi-
tion would have it so. According to Washington Irving, some of the
older inhabitants still referred to the town (Cap Haitien) by the name
of Guarico.
[22 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Three Arawak sites were excavated by the writer in the immediate
vicinity of Petite Anse, including one on the Desglaireaux land of the
American Pineapple Company just beyond the sentry box, east of the
village, and another nearer to Cap Haitien but back from the beach
approximately 3 kilometers. Potsherds collected from these two sites,

Fic. 116.—Illustrated are four sacred images,
“zemis,’ of symmetrically carved stone from the
historic Arawak village of Guarico, the present Cap
Haitien. These ‘“‘zemis”’ were potent agents of the
Arawak priest when called upon to break a drought,
or to ward off a hurricane, or to make a warrior
invulnerable in battle.

while coming under the general Arawak type, differ in design, paste,
form, and thickness of walls.

Anacaona, the sister of the Arawak chief Behechio, whose village
occupied the site where now stands the capital city of Port-au-Prince,
gave freely to Bartholomew Columbus of her stores in cotton yarn,
pottery vessels, carved wooden seats, cassava bread, and golden
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1931 123

Fic. 117.—On the smooth stone walls of caves and on bowlders along the larger water
courses appear deeply incised pictographs anciently carved there by unknown Indian
artists. Many of these ‘‘ petroglyphs’ represent, no doubt, spirits who, in Indian lore,
were ever present either to be appeased or supplicated.

Fic. 118.—Mollusks formed one of the staples in the food supply of the Ciboney and
Arawak Indians of prehistoric Haiti. The same is true for the negroid occupants of
present-day Haiti. The illustration is that of a shell mound on Beata Island, unusual in
its makeup in that it consists exclusively of shell débris of the large conch Strombus gigas.
124. SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

ornaments. Nevertheless she was hanged by Governor Ovando, who
proceeded to found a town on the spot which he named Santa Maria
de la Vera Paz.

The Xaraguanians, who practiced an intensive form of agriculture
dependent on irrigation, possessed a superior form of material culture
to that of the natives of Marien in the north where ample rainfall and
a fertile soil required less effort in agriculture to maintain an adequate
food supply. Oviedo mentions the fact that villages at Gros Morne
and elsewhere numbered several hundred houses. This was no doubt
an exaggeration on a par with the statement of Las Casas that the
entire island bore a population of 3,000,000. Spinden’s estimate of
100,000 inhabitants is nearer the truth, as large sections of. the more
arid regions of central Haiti and Santo Domingo were uninhabited.

There were in the mountainous areas and along the coast, particu-
larly in Samana in the northeast, and in Xaragua in the southwest,
representatives of hunting and fishing tribes that did not practice agri-
culture. Abundant traces of these people are to be seen in the shell
mounds of the Haitian littoral investigated by the writer. These shell
mounds were originally described as from caves in Samana, Santo
Domingo, by Gabb ; from Beata Island, off the south coast of Barahona
by Wetmore; by Parish from Ile a Vache, off the Caribbean coast of
southwestern Haiti; and by the writer from sites on the Cul de Sac
and on the north coast of Haiti.

An interesting archeological discovery is the recognizable sequence
in Arawak pottery wares from the several Arawak sites. The pottery
type predominant at the time of the Conquest is as yet not clearly es-
tablished. An enigma, however, is the tribal identification of the non-
pottery producing, shell-mound builders of the Haitian and Domini-
can littoral. Future investigation should bring out clearly the sequence
in Arawak culture and its northern and southern affiliations as also
its autonomous development as an island culture through study of the
several known major historical sites. Future investigations, however,
may never determine just what are the relations that once may have
existed between the shell-mound builders of the Haitian, Bahaman,
and Floridian coast.
HUNTING BASKETS IN ARIZONA

By NEMA VM UDD
Curator, Division of Archeology, U. S. National Museum

Archeologists sometimes go on wild goose chases. My last field
trip was just such a one and there have been others before. Archeo-
logical wild goose chases result from the fact that reported discov-
eries, once run to earth, are not always what they seemed to the
original observer or, with equal likelihood, they are not always what
the archeologist hopes they might prove to be.

For example, when I first learned that a number of old baskets had
been seen lying about in caves in the rugged Natanes Plateau of east-
ern Arizona, there flashed before my mind’s eye that same familiar
mirage which sooner or later beckons to every student of the pre-
historic Pueblos: A cave dwelling just as its aboriginal inhabitants
left it, undisturbed by modern hands. Too, there was the vaguest sort
of possibility these baskets might be relics of the ancient Basket
Makers whose slab-sided pit-houses so frequently underlie habitations
of the later Pueblo tribes.

There was some justification for this latter thought, however fan-
tastic it subsequently proved to be. The so-called Basket Makers, first
farmers of the Southwest, had changed from a nomadic to a semi-
sedentary mode of life upon acquisition of maize. Their cultural re-
mains, recovered by painstaking excavators from sand-filled caves in
southern Utah and northeastern Arizona, provide a fairly compre-
hensive index to the degree of civilization these ancient folk had at-
tained 1,500 years before Spanish conquistadores began the written
history of the New World. And artifacts peculiar to the Basket Mak-
ers had been found in the Guadalupe Mountains of southern New
Mexico. Between the Guadalupes and Navajo Mountain, on the
northern Arizona border, lie 500 miles of semiarid land—broad desert
valleys, deep canyons, towering mesas, gnarled mountain masses gray-
green with oaks, junipers, and pines. Somewhere in these far- flung
miles the primitive Basket Makers should have left footprints as they
plodded southward from the basin of the Rio San Juan. Who could
say but that an echo of that distant migration might be found in the
very caves of which I had heard?

My first intimation of these, and the baskets they sheltered, came in
early February, 1930, while I was engaged with an aerial survey of

125
126 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

the prehistoric canals in Salt River Valley." My trustworthy infor-
mant was a reformed cowboy who had his information from a pro-
fessional hunter who had actually seen the baskets while chasing
cougars up and down the mountain side. Now, as a rule, hunters and
cowmen are so preoccupied with signs of predatory animals and moss-
back steers that they pay little attention to anything else along the
trails they travel. But here was a hunter who knew what he had seen
and where he had seen it ; and here was a cowboy so enthusiastic over
archeology that he made mental note of all available details concerning
this particular occurrence. Which information in due course was
generously placed at my disposal. Yet it was not until the summer of
1931 brought warning that pot-hunters (diggers of curios for the
commercial trade) were working toward the isolated region in which
I was interested that provision was made for an early reconnaissance.
Needless to say, this was undertaken with specific authorization from
the Department of the Interior, as required by law.

In consequence of all this, the first week of September found me
in Phoenix ; a few days later, at Sawmill—mere speck on the serpen-
tine road from San Carlos Agency to Fort Apache and beyond. With
three weeks on horseback immediately in store, Previous Experience
suggested that I take advantage of the modest comforts at hand and,
while the saddle was getting used to me, examine those caves known
to exist in the hills round about. So we rode part way down Sawmill
Canyon, which nature never designed as a bridle path, and next day we
walked 5 or 6 miles up Bronco Canyon and back again just because
a horse with more than two feet could not possibly pick a way between
the tumbled boulders.

Two of the five caves we * entered in Bronco Canyon had once been
inhabited by aborigines. The larger of the two, a huge duplex affair
(fig. 119), obviously was occupied throughout a considerable period
but its entire ceiling has since fallen and permanently buried whatever
of material culture lies within. Piled among these tons of broken lime-
stone was the nest of a pack rat ; we pilfered from his private museum
(as a hobby, every pack rat collects queer curios) a painted bow, sev-
eral reed arrows with long wooden tips, potsherds, ete. The small but
alluring cave visible in the west wall of the canyon 500 feet or more

‘Explorations and field-work of the Smithsonian Institution in 1920, pp. 177-
182, 1930. Explorations and field-work of the Smithsonian Institution in 1930,
pp. 157-166, 1931.

* Throughout his three weeks in the field, the writer was accompanied by
Serg. Phillip E. Howard as guide; young Don Thompson of San Carlos,
joined us at Ash Creek ranch.
127

ONIAN EXPLORATIONS, I93I

SMITH:

vou uini [Pus

“sulIdS o1uesty

eB pur

Ss

en

e)

je1IWUO[.SUO)—'OTI

‘O14

oouo1g ul o

AB

‘uoAur)
2 dS1P] & 0} SOOURIJUD OM} JO JUQ—OII “DIY

128 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

)

Spring.

Fic. 122.—Ruin near Arsenic
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, I93I1 129

above its stream bed and which we reached only by inching our way
along precarious ledges and through some of Arizona’s prickliest cacti,
had been utilized by an owl, nothing more.

Natanes Plateau, locally known as “ the Nantacs,
or “the Nantes,” overlooks the remainder of Gila and Graham coun-
ties from an elevation of more than 5,000 feet. As one descends from
the pine forests about Sawmill the temperature changes perceptibly
and, with it, the fauna and flora. From the southwest base of the
plateau, fringed with mesquite, catclaw, and like thorny shrubs, miles
of seemingly level grasslands stretch away southward to end abruptly
on the very brink of dreadful chasms, tributary to the placid Gila

99 66

the Nantans ”’

River. Within these silent gorges giant sahuaros reach skyward their
stubby fingers just as on the hotter Arizona deserts.

Not until we had crossed the headwaters of Blue River, Rocky
Creek, and Warm Springs Creek; not, indeed, until we had passed
Ash Creek ranch, former rendezvous of the Chiricahua Cattle Com-
pany, and climbed out upon that vast and marvelously level valley
ignominiously known as Ash Flat did we find the underlying forma-
tions of the Nantacs presenting themselves. Cautiously at first and
then with sudden boldness thick layers of basalt, conglomerate, and
limestone thrust out scarred faces to form towering cliffs. At their
base, in the band of conglomerate or volcanic breccia, rock shelters
and caves of greater or lesser size occur at irregular intervals.

Our prime objective in this vicinity was a rock shelter containing
four old baskets. The covert lay hidden by thick oak brush close on
the left side of a rocky gully. Sergeant Howard’s memory was quite
clear as to essential details. He had seen the baskets some years be-
fore while pursuing a mountain lion. His dogs, on an upper terrace,
were barking “ treed ” ; he was hurrying to reach them. Unexpectedly,
his way was blocked by an unscalable ledge in a miniature gorge. He
had turned sharply to the left, glimpsed the baskets in passing—and
had given them no further thought until swapping observations with
my friend, the one-time cowpuncher.

But our search was not a day old before we learned that every rocky
gully at the south foot of the Nantacs is, in part, a miniature gorge.
And every gorge is barred by a wall that cannot be scaled ; every one
is bordered by oak brush so thick and tangled that, to quote the ser-
geant, “ you can’t stick a knife in it.” There remained but to search
every nook and cranny on the mountain side. Peering behind bushes
and into hidden corners; scrambling up perpendicular cliffs and
scrambling down again we missed few, if any, holes in which primitive
man had found refuge (fig. 120). And we missed very few of the
cacti that cling to the skirts of Natanes Plateau.
130 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Fic. 123.—Cave containing baskets. Lower Blue River crossing.

Fic. 124——-Three Apache baskets from the above cave.
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1931 131

Fic. 126.—Entering Natural Corral Canyon.
132 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

I felt like a pincushion long before our search came to an end. If I
chanced to slip on a pebble or on the dry grass that carpets the sev-
eral terraces, a cactus was waiting wherever I landed. Never before
in all my southwestern experience had I personally encountered such
an infinite variety of cacti. There were little spiny buttons. almost
invisible among the stones. There were long cacti and short cacti;
round cacti and flat cacti. Great leathery pads strung end to end lay
spoke-like in the grass and out upon weathered rock surfaces. Chollas
spread their loose-jointed arms to bar each narrow way. As every
stranger to Arizona deserts can testify, passing these diabolical plants
with impunity is well-nigh impossible.

Despite cacti on narrow ledges ; despite a September sun that turned
bare cliffs into veritable griddles; despite tangled oaks and catclaw,
we finally solved the riddle of the baskets. They were not of Basket
Maker origin, as | had dared to hope. They were not even Pueblo.
Apache women wove them and there is every reason to believe they
were hidden away during those uncertain years from 1871 to 1886
when the Apaches were making a last desperate effort to retain their
mountains and their freedom.

In the conglomerate formation east and west from Arsenic Spring
are numerous small caves. Some few of these were temporarily in-
habited by Pueblo families at a time when pressure from nomadic
enemies was especially keen. We know this from the defensive mea-
sures taken—concealment of storerooms and dwellings; rock barri-
cades fronting caves ; loopholes in the walls, ete.

The largest settlement we observed consisted of four detached
houses toward the front of a roomy cave (fig. 121). Here, as else-
where, the masonry was rude and so placed as to take advantage ot
protruding rock masses. Except at Arsenic Spring and in the other
large cave a mile to the west, no perceptible accumulation of ashes was
apparent ; no indication of prolonged residence. Potsherds, rare at
best, correlate with the Showlow-Pinedale area, 50 miles or so to the
north, which Haury’ has dated in the late fourteenth century. We
observed no evidence of earlier occupancy. To the extent, therefore,
that we failed to find what I dreamed might be found this brief ad-
venture along the southwest face of the Nantacs may be regarded as a
wild goose chase.

‘Haury, E. W., and Hargrave, L. L., Recently dated Pueblo ruins in Arizona.
Smithsonian Misc. Coll., vol. 82, no. 11, 1931.
Pele mri SomORIG GAVE IN TEXAS

By FRANK M. SETZLER
Assistant Curator, Division of Archeology, U. S. National Museuin

In July, 1930, M. W. Stirling, Chief of the Bureau of American
Ethnology, made a brief archeological reconnaissance in the Big bend
region of Texas.’ As a result of that survey, plans were made for a
more detailed examination of the region. The observations herein
described inaugurate the studies we hope to pursue from year to
year.

Leaving Washington on April 21, 1931, en route to the Big Bend
region, I stopped at previously reported archeological sites near Vic-
toria and Brownsville. From the first of these cities John L. Jarratt
generously conducted me down the Guadalupe River to an old camp
site and two large mounds, one of which belongs to a Mississippi
Valley culture. From Brownsville, thanks to the wholehearted co-
operation of the personnel at the Plant Quarantine and Control Ad-
ministration of the United States Department of Agriculture, I was
privileged to examine all the known archeological sites near the mouth
of the Rio Grande. Prehistoric Indian artifacts have been recovered
on the mud flats between Brownsville and Point Isabel, but as this
low ground is constantly altered by both water and wind, no evidence
of aboriginal occupancy remains visible. A. FE. Anderson’s collection
from this general region was examined and found to contain Juastec
pottery and sherds.

From Brownsville I proceeded to Marfa, the point of departure for
Valentine and the Mollie B. Knight ranch, my ultimate objective.
Marfa at five in the morning is not soon to be forgotten. Perhaps any
place at that hour is remarkable, but there the surrounding mountains
make the sunrise exceptionally spectacular.

It was my good fortune in Marfa to meet Frank and Royce Gott-
holt, local business men who realize the historical importance of arti-
facts from Texas caves. They gladly donated to the United States
National Museum several specimens that they had previously col-
lected. They also aided me in many ways throughout the period of
my reconnaissance.

* Archeological reconnaissance in Texas and Nevada. Explorations and field-
work of the Smithsonian Institution in 1930, pp. 173-176, 1031.

133
134 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

‘

Auto transportation over the “ wide open spaces” to the Knight
ranch was provided by L. D. Harris of the United States Depart-
ment of Agriculture. The road, merely a series of parallel ruts in
the sunbaked earth, was limited as to width by the colonies of prairie
dogs on the one hand and cactus plants on the other. During the dry
season these roads are sufficient, but during the spring when storms
break in the mountains traffic stops. The numerous arroyos which we
crossed on our way to the ranch seemed very dry. Upon our return
to Marfa, however, a storm broke between us and the main highway.
We drove at full speed, trying to reach a large arroyo before it filled.
We were too late. Bridges over these washes are unheard of ; the road
simply drops into them and rises on the other side. Rather than camp
all night along its bank we raced with the water to another crossing
10 miles away. We reached the crossing just as the water began to
flow into it—ten minutes later and we would have had to sleep in the
car.

To D. G. Knight, who made me welcome and placed the ranch house
at my disposal, and to his mother, Mrs. Mollie B, Knight, I am in-
debted for their hospitality and cooperation. They were interested in
the excavation and were always willing to facilitate the work.

The cave I came to examine lies 400 yards from the Knight ranch
house and on the west side of a small canyon whose basaltic walls rise
200 feet or more. Although only 100 feet above the valley floor, the
cave entrance is well concealed and very difficult to photograph (fig.
127). Huge fallen rocks block its narrow opening so that it had been
unknown until 1923 when a fox which Mr. Knight was chasing con-
veniently found it. The infrequent rains have not penetrated beyond
the opening, so within the main chamber all was perfectly dry.

The task of excavation would have been much simpler had it been
possible to remove the rocks at the entrance. But these supported the
cave roof (fig. 128), so that it seemed treacherous to remove even the
rocks we did in order to make an entrance 4 feet wide through which
to remove the dirt. To reach the main chamber we were at first forced
to crawl on our hands and knees over the sharp cactus spines that the
pack rats had carried in. Excavations began in the entrance way.
Enough dirt was removed to permit entering in a semi-erect posture.

Our aim was to reach bed rock, and, with this as a base, carry for-
ward our trench always trying to keep a perpendicular face. Three
distinct strata appeared before we reached bed rock. The top 8 inches
consisted primarily of rat dung. Beneath it was a stratum of dry earth
24 feet thick in which the artifacts and other evidences of human habi-
tation were found. The remaining 6 feet to bed rock was made up of
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1931 135

Fic. 127.—Pursuit of a fox led to the discovery of the Knight cave which
the man in white (seen in the center) is about to enter.

re
| a ;

= as

ea é : eet. J
é tad

's a
SEE set DS ee sa EE a = ee pect laa

Fic. 128.—When the cave opening was enlarged to the utmost, unsup-
ported rocks were left hanging like Damoclean swords over those who
passed in and out.
136 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

stones which had fallen from the ceiling and the pulverized dust which
had blown in before the entrance was blocked. A definite cleavage or
floor existed between the habitation stratum and the lower 6 feet ; how-
ever there was no evidence of pits. Although most of the coiled bas-
kets and mattings were fragmentary, none of them gave the appear-
ance of having been merely discarded. In almost every case we found
a layer of matting, then a bundle of grass, and the basket fragment on
top. After a small area of habitation stratum was carefully removed
the remaining 6 feet of earth and stones was shovelled into buckets,
carried outside and sifted through a % inch mesh screen (fig. 130).

Only one who has worked in a cave where the sole means of venti-
lation was a small opening at the floor level can fully understand the
physical difficulties under which our work was carried on. Dry dust,
finer than flour, formed thick clouds. There was no escaping it; no
movement of air to remove it. Dust masks were indispensable, and
even with this protection it was necessary to leave every 15 or 20
minutes to fill our lungs with fresh air and change the filters in the
masks. The fine dust even clogged the mantles of our gasoline lan-
terns, so that pocket flashlights had to suffice for illumination. Credit
is due to my four Mexicans for remaining after the first week. But
our lungs soon became adjusted to the ordeal.

Near the entrance the skeleton of a small child had been buried 2
feet 3 inches beneath the surface with several lumps of yellow ochre,
two small flint projectile points, and a tiny waterworn quartz pebble.
The child had been placed on a small sotol plaited matting and cov-
ered with grass.

More than 70 artifacts were in the habitation stratum. They con-
sist of coiled baskets and plaited sotol mattings, sandals, twisted yucca
fiber cordage, stone beads, gourd sherds, cradles, yucca bags, wooden
and bone awls. Two techniques are apparent in the matting and
plaques: one, the horizontal-vertical plaiting—over one and under
one (fig. 131, a) ; over two and under two (fig. 131, b)—the other,
diagonal plaiting, over one and under one (fig. 131, c). Dr. Gene
Weltfish, who chanced to visit the National Museum shortly after
my return from the field, after examining the coiled baskets described
them as follows: ‘ They consist of a coiled multiple reed foundation
with a yucca blade used as a sewing thread ; the stitching is bifurcated
on the nonworked surface (fig. 132, a), and the concave surface, the
work side, is analogous to the single rod foundation coiling (fig.
132. (Di)

One of the most interesting specimens 1s a small cradle, 25 inches
long and 1o$ inches wide, made of long twigs held together by inter-
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, I93I SY)

Fic. 129.—The Knight cave was unlighted, unventilated and half filled
with disintegrated rock and dust finer than flour. From a flashlight photo-
graph before excavation.

Fic. 130.—Many tons of rock and earth were removed in hand buckets
through the constricted cave entrance to be carefully screened in the open
air. Dust masks were indispensable.
138 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

woven twisted yucca fiber cord, the ends overlapped and bound to-
gether (fig. 133). Three similar cradles were in a fragmentary
condition.

We found neither earthenware vessels nor sherds in the Knight
ranch cave. A fragment of gourd which had been broken and sewed
together by the primitive owner indicates that here, as in the Pueblo
area to the northwest, gourds were used as receptacles. There was no
evidence of European contact. With the exception of two sandals, the

STor/zonial—Vertical Pla/ting Diagonal Plai ting
One over ore under Iwo over two under Ove over one under
a b c

Fic. 131.—Schematic drawings of plaiting techniques used in weaving mats:

a. Horizontal-vertical, over one and under one.
b. Horizontal-vertical, over two and under two.
c. Diagonal, over one and under one.

aval

FV WAT
FEA
e, U Q S
Convex, rro7-work surlace Concave, work surface.

a b

Fic. 132.—Diagrammatic study of coiled basketry showing multiple reed
foundation with bifurcated yucca-leaf thread:

©, U

a, The outer or convex side.
b, The concave side from which the weaving was done.

artifacts show little resemblance to any of the southwestern cultures.
This seems strange in view of the fact that Dr. F. H. H. Roberts, Jr.,’
and others have recognized the culture known as Basket Maker near
Ik] Paso, 200 miles northwest of the Knight ranch.

After this cave was excavated three smaller caves and one rock
shelter in the same canyon were investigated, but without results of
archeological interest.

“Recent archeological developments in the vicinity of El Paso, Texas. Smith-
sonian Misc. Coll., vol. 81, no. 7, January, 1929.
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, I93I1 139

Fic. 133.—Among the best-preserved artifacts from the Knight cave is this
shallow, boat-shaped tray, presumably a cradle.

lic. 134—Texas cowboys have inherited countless myths concerning
Spanish gold buried in caves of the Big Bend country. Search for this
non-existent treasure has brought destruction to the cultural remains of
unknown, prehistoric Indians.
140 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Side trips from the Knight ranch to various other points in Pre-
sidio, Brewster, and Jeff Davis counties revealed caves and shelters
which we hope to examine in the near future. Some of these have
been pretty thoroughly dug over by collectors of curios and by seek-
ers after buried treasure. Legends and tales are common everywhere
describing the vast quantities of gold the early Spanish explorers are
supposed to have cached in the mountains. This has prompted many
men to spend weeks cleaning out the accumulated dirt, destroying
whatever archeological material may have been present. Fragments of
baskets, mats, cordage and the like having no commercial value are
discarded with the rest of the dirt. Such vandalism destroys the evi-
dence with which the archeologist is trying to piece together the un-
written history of prehistoric America.

The results of this excavation cannot be correlated with any of
the known cultures in the State or in the neighboring culture areas.
Further information must be secured, similar sites studied, and the
marginal cultures found before conclusions can be drawn concerning
the status of this culture.
PN SNE OR ANG ARC LE OLOGICAL Site IN EASTERN
ARIZONA

By FRANK H. H. ROBERTS, JR.
Archeologist, Bureau of American Ethnology

Lying on top of a low mesa overlooking Whitewater Canyon and
the broader valley of the Puerco River (fig. 135) in eastern Arizona
is an archeological site which gives promise of contributing valuable
data on the prehistoric Southwest. Although there are many ruins,
representing various separate stages of Pueblo culture, scattered
throughout the adjacent district, this particular location is of im-
portance because it contains four distinct and sequent levels of oc-
cupation. Such an occurrence presents an exceptional opportunity
for studying the changes that took place over a comparatively long
period in the history of the ancient sedentary Indians. The owner
of the site, J. A. Grubbs of Houck, Ariz., called the writer’s attention
to it during the summer of 1930 and a preliminary examination of the
ruins and mounds was made in the autumn of that year. The possi-
bilities of obtaining profitable information were so apparent that
plans were made for an extensive exploration and investigation of
the remains. Mr. Grubbs readily granted permission for a series of
excavations and in May, 1931, an expedition from the Bureau of
American Ethnology set up camp (fig. 136) and began work.

In June the Laboratory of Anthropology of Santa Fe, N. Mex.,
joined in the undertaking and through July and August cooperated in
the project. Four graduate students, holders of fellowships granted
by the Laboratory of Anthropology, participated in the researches
during this period. These men were: Solon: T. Kimball, Harvard
University ; Carl F. Miller, University of Arizona; Ralph D. Brown,
University of Minnesota; and Dale S. King, University of Den-
ver. Zuni and Navajo Indians were employed as laborers in the
excavations.

So that the significance of this site may be appreciated, it should be
stated that archeologists have classified the sedentary peoples of the
plateau portion of the Southwest under two main headings. These
major groups are known by the terms Basket Makers and Pueblos,
the latter including the far-famed and frequently described cliff
dwellers. Each group has several subdivisions which are referred to
by number. The Basket Maker, which is the older, includes three and

141
142 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Fic. 135.—View of Whitewater Canyon and the Puerco Valley.

Fic. 136.—Camp of the expedition.
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, I93I1 143

Fic. 137.—Subterranean portion of an early dwelling.

Fic. 138.—Pit portion of house. Wall faced with stones.

10
144 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

the Pueblo has five. Incorporated in the one group of remains in
eastern Arizona are vestiges of Basket Maker III, Pueblo I, IT, and
III. Complete excavation of the site will throw light on the closing
days of the Basket Makers, show the beginnings of the Pueblo cul-
ture, and trace its growth through two subsequent periods. For some
reason, as yet unrevealed, the place was abandoned during the third
Pueblo phase and never reoccupied.

A series of trenches dug in various portions of the site demon-
strated that during the early stages the people lived in a straggling
village of single family houses. These dwellings were semisubter-
ranean in structure and had been scattered about with little attempt
at order. As time went on the domiciles were placed in more com-
pact groups and a certain system of arrangement developed. Later
the pit type of house was given up and buildings were erected above
ground. Ultimately two large communal houses capable of shelter-
ing many families evolved. These last structures occupied only a
small portion of the area covered by the older horizons in the village.
As a consequence it is not necessary for the archeologist to com-
pletely excavate the more recent ruins before investigating some of
the earlier remains. Activities during the summer of 1931 were con-
fined to the outer fringes of the site, the excavating of pit houses and
the trenching of their accompanying trash mounds.

When the field season was brought to a close late in September the
subterranean portions of 14 structures had been cleared of the debris
which accumulated in them during the centuries which have passed
since their abandonment. The excavations showed that several of
the dwellings had been destroyed by fire. The charred remnants of
timbers lying on the floors demonstrated clearly the methods of roof
construction. This evidence, together with the nature of the pits which
remain, makes possible the drawing of an accurate picture of the type
of dwelling in vogue during the early stages in the occupation of the
site. Asa matter of fact the details were so clearly shown that one of
the houses was restored in order that visitors may see just what
the domiciles of that type were like. In doing this it was necessary
to use new timbers, but every effort was made to erect a structure as
near like the original as possible.

The semisubterranean houses were rather crude but no doubt ser-
viceable. They had consisted of a circular, oval, or rectangular exca-
vation roofed over with a pole, brush, bark and plaster superstructure.
The earth walls of the pits were covered with plaster made from adobe
mud in which there was a slight admixture of ashes (fig. 137). One
example differed in that the walls were lined with large stone slabs
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, I93I 145

set up on edge. Resting upon these slabs and rising some distance
above them were several courses of rough masonry (fig. 138). In
this case the plaster was applied to the faces of the stones and to the
casual observer there would have been no difference between the in-
terior appearance of this and other dwellings. The pits ranged from
2 to 6 feet in depth and Io to 20 feet in diameter.

The superstructure erected over the pits was supported by four
upright posts set in the floor a short distance from the walls. The
upper ends of these main supports were forked, tree trunks with
suitable crotches having been obtained for the purpose, and carried
cross-beams (fig. 139). These stringers formed a rectangular frame-
work against which were placed the upper ends of smaller timbers,
the butts of which rested on the ground some distance back from the
edges of the pit. The slanting poles formed the main part of the
sloping upper walls of the house (fig. 140). At the top the rectangu-
lar space was covered with a flat roof with an opening near the center
which functioned as a smoke hole and entrance. The entire frame-
work was covered with brush, leaves, and strips of cedar bark. On
top of this a thick layer of mud plaster was spread and over all there
was a thin coating of earth. Indications were that the tops of the
roofs were only elevated above the ground sufficiently to provide for
drainage. A village composed of houses of this type would not be
striking in appearance, for all that an onlooker would see would be a
series of low, rounding mounds with the ends of ladders projecting
through rectangular openings in their tops (fig. 141).

The interior features of such houses were simple. Near the
center of each, directly under the opening in the roof, was a fire pit.
Close to it, on the southeast side, was a second depression in the
floor in which rested the lower end of the ladder used in gaining ac-
cess to the chamber. Scattered about in the floor were numbers of
small holes which served as depositories for minor objects, such as
implements of bone and stone. An occasional dwelling had a storage
recess in the wall. Where these were present they were on the floor
level. None were placed above it. At the east or southeast side of each
room there was an aperture in the wall which opened into a short
tunnel. The latter led to a vertical shaft whose outlet was on the
ground level some distance from the edge of the roof mound. This
constituted the ventilator. The nature of the houses was such that a
constant supply of fresh, cold air was drawn down into them through
this ventilator, a fact conclusively demonstrated by the reconstructed
dwelling. Between the opening in the wall and the fire pit, at the
base of the ladder, an upright slab of stone was set in the floor. This
146 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Fic, 140.—Interior view of restored pit house. Slanting wall poles and brush
covering a characteristic feature.
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1931 147

Fic. 141.—Exterior of restored pit house. Smoke hole and entrance hatch-
way at feet of Indian boy. Ventilator opening is shown in foreground at
extreme left.

ia * ry ee ee hee
Kaa ee a ap! Sa aS

Fic. 142——Restored pit house in foreground. The shed roofs were erected
over other pit remains to preserve them. Large stone mound in background
covers ruins of surface house.
148 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

is called the deflector and was so placed to prevent the inrushing air
from blowing directly on the fire. The draft at times was so strong
that it was necessary to stop the opening completely. A well-worked
oval slab of stone was provided for this purpose. The cover stones
were in position over the opening in a number of the pits when they
were excavated.

In general it may be said that the structures uncovered in 1931 con-
formed to the widespread semisubterranean type of house built in

Fic. 143.—Group of three connected pit houses.

many sections of the Southwest. They are particularly comparable to
the pit dwellings which the writer found during previous seasons’ in-
vestigations in the Chaco Canyon, in northwestern New Mexico, and
at the old Long H Ranch, Ariz., some 30 miles south and west of the
present location. All showed individual differences and variations as
may be expected in any group of ruins, but in their main essentials
they exhibited a striking similarity.

One really unique feature was brought to light by the excavations.
In two different groups the houses were connected. There were no
partitions at the sides where they joined and long, narrow dwellings
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, I93]1 I49

ET ME, HEE
<<. ~ ~ one c
be ag e x
> ae : v ‘
: < ~ ai ees :
ye “By; en aor:
‘oe hes . agape t
~ a & hy
: st = 4
oe A ‘
o ta. 3te4 id ‘
gat ee pe |
i - ee
; f** ty 5 *~: : % . ad
- * ¢ q
‘ a e * : 3
Sos astra Sy
+ 4 * - +
3 Weep we .
t * d ’
f ; toe
wi : i
a
ned -
* ,
ti: \
‘ *
ae ‘
ie,
+
re “
¥
— mz

Fic. 144.—Child burial. Body position and placement of mortuary offerings
is typical.

Fic. 145—Examples of pottery found with burials and in the houses.
150 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

resulted. One of the examples was composed of two and the other
had three connecting chambers. Each room was complete in itself,
to the minutest detail, but because of the lack of a separating wall be-
came an integral part of the larger structure (fig. 143). Every indi-
cation was that the associated dwellings in each cluster were con-
temporaneous and had been simultaneously occupied. It is possible
that the two groups represent one of the prototypes for the communal
buildings which in later times were erected above ground. If such
were the case there is in this district evidence of an interesting varia-
tion in the evolution of the house. In the more northern parts of the
area the single family domiciles had practically emerged from the
ground before the development of the multiple-roomed structures
began.

The sequence of house types was demonstrated by evidence secured
from the trash mounds. The deposits had not been disturbed. Hence
it was possible to make stratigraphic studies of the changes in pottery
and types of implements. Inasmuch as the oldest material lies at the
bottom and the most recent at the top it is not difficult to determine
the relative ages of various parts of the site. Potsherds from the
crudest pit houses are like those at the bottom of the refuse mounds,
those from the better semisubterranean structures compare with frag-
ments from higher levels, and material from the surface houses cor-
responds to that in the topmost layers. The dump heaps also yielded
42 burials with accompanying mortuary offerings (fig. 144). The
latter constitute pottery (fig. 145), bone and stone implements, and
other objects of the people’s handicraft. All stages are represented in
this collection.

At the start of the next field season attention will be turned to the
large surface structures. One of them is superimposed upon the re-
mains of a pit house group and its refuse mound. Its excavation
should throw much light on certain archeological problems as yet un-
solved. The ruins are easily accessible from one of the main trans-
continental highways and already are proving of interest to travelers.
AN ARCHEOLOGICAL RECONNAISSANCE IN THE
MissOURI VALLEY

By WILLIAM DUNCAN STRONG
Ethnologist, Bureau of American Ethnology

When the travel-weary company of Coronado first visited the
natives of the great Plains of North America in 1541 they observed
large settled villages in the vicinity of the Espiritu Santo River. This
river was evidently the northwestern extension of the Espiritu Santo
proper, that is the Missouri River. Here they found an abundant and
settled population among whom the horse was unknown. Less than
300 years later when Lewis and Clark came up the Missouri River they
found a greatly reduced population possessed of large herds of horses
and to a great extent dependent on buffalo hunting. These were the
tribes that became famous in frontier history and their nomadic life,
based so largely upon the horse, has come to be looked upon as the
typical native culture of the Plains. It is obvious, however, that this
horse Indian culture must have been very different from that observed
by Coronado. Since the chroniclers of the colorful but unfortunate
Conquistador were so remiss in furnishing details of Indian life it
falls to the lot of the archeologist and the ethnologist to discover just
what degree of civilization existed in the Missouri River valley prior
to the coming of the white man and his horse.

It was this problem, in conjunction with work already commenced
in Nebraska, that caused the writer to push his investigations farther
afield on a rapid survey trip from August 8 to September 29, 1931.
The trip covered parts of central and western Nebraska, and central
South Dakota and culminated among the Arikara Indians on the
Fort Berthold Reservation in northern North Dakota.

In central Nebraska a week was spent at a site near the little town
of Sweetwater, where a University of Nebraska archeological party
under the writer’s supervision was excavating a prehistoric Pawnee
village. Waldo Wedel, in direct charge of the University field party,
had three earth lodges uncovered, beside many cache or storage pits.
The three houses were especially interesting since one was round, one
square, and one intermediate in outline (fig. 146). All had the four-
post roof foundation and all were of the same period as demon-
strated by abundant pottery and other cultural remains.

151
152 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

From this place the combined party moved over to the Platte River
to investigate a reported association of fossil bison remains and flint
points. After some difficulty the site was located, but owing to the in-
ability of the man reporting the find to get in touch with us little could
be learned as to the nature or significance of the discovery. Shortly
after this our party visited a site near Angus, Nebr., where A. M.
Brooking, of the Hastings Museum, had reported the finding of a flint
point under the scapula of a Columbian mammoth. Mr. Brooking
kindly gave us a glimpse of the point and showed us the place under
the scapula from which it had been removed. While the writer, on
the basis of other evidence, is inclined to favor the probability of
human remains occurring with extinct animals in Nebraska, he rather
doubts the significance of the present find. The bones were much dis-
arranged, one tusk occurring some 60 feet from the scapula, while the
majority of bones were in water-borne material. Granting that a
dart point had been driven into the superficial muscles of the shoulder
it is hard to imagine how it might have retained its direct association
during the period of decay and subsequent movement. The time per-
mitted for my examination of the point itself was too brief to form
any conclusions in this regard and no other traces of human associa-
tion were observed at the site.

The next three days were occupied by a trip up Medicine Creek, a
northern tributary of the Republican River, and an examination of
the forks of the Dismal River in Hooker County, Nebr. Prehistoric
Pawnee sites were observed along the Republican River and on Medi-
cine Creek. Along the latter stream the local collectors report stone-
lined graves rather than the hilltop ossuaries which mark prehistoric
Pawnee sites along the Republican. Otherwise, to judge from pottery
and other artifacts, the cultures are closely similar. The forks of the
Dismal River are of especial interest since it is here that Omaha
Indian tradition locates a “ fort” of the “ Padouca Nation ” who are
known today as the Comanche. The high ground at the forks (fig. 147 )
was gone over carefully but no traces of any extensive occupation were
observed. There are, however, deeply eroded areas or blowouts on
this ridge which would serve admirably either for defense or con-
cealment. Three surface sites are located on the Dismal in this
vicinity. Two of these sites yielded a few fragments of a black, grit-
tempered pottery. The third site yielded pieces of an extremely heavy
ware, so deeply cord-marked as to suggest corrugations and without
any visible tempering other than holes. The rather common occur-
rence of black obsidian on all these sites may indicate the more
westerly connections of the Comanche who apparently occupied the
ne

Fic. 146.—(a) Square, (b) intermediate, and (c) round earth lodges from
same prehistoric Pawnee Village near Sweetwater, Nebr. (Photograph
by W. Wedel.)

153
154 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Fic. 147—The forks of the Dismal River in Central Nebraska where
Indian tradition locates an ancient fort of the Padonca or Comanche.

Fic. 148.—Butte near Scotts Bluff, Nebr., with the remains of three pre-
historic occupations on its summit. (Photograph by Lee A. Daniels.)
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1931 155

region just prior to the visit of Lewis and Clark. The writer was
especially fortunate on this part of his trip in being guided by A. de
Hill of Hastings, Nebr. Mr. Hill is an enthusiastic amateur worker
in archeology whose knowledge of sites and cultures in southern and
central Nebraska is unsurpassed.

After leaving the Dismal River, our party drove across the sand
hill region of Nebraska with its many lakes swarming with water
fowl to Scottsbluff, Nebr. Here we met Thomas L. Green of that
city, who had previously notified the writer of what appeared to be
a stratified site on a high mesa in the vicinity. Our excavations, aided

Fic. 149—View from the top of the mesa showing the creek junction.

by Mr. Green and R. C. Swanson, amply confirmed the opinion of the
latter investigators as to the importance of the site. The mesa (fig.
149) is about 100 feet high, nearly 400 feet long, and some 150 feet
wide. It is composed of Brule clay and limestone but, unlike the many
similar mesas nearby, it is capped with a deposit of some 6 feet of
sand and cultural detritus. A trench (fig. 150) run across the center
of the deposit revealed three levels of habitation. The first layer which
occupied the upper 2 feet contained quite numerous sherds of pottery
identical with the prehistoric Pawnee ceramics previously mentioned.
In addition, the small, notched, triangular arrow points, diamond-
shaped and bevelled knives, and other artifacts suggest this culture.
150 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Below this deposit occurred 1 foot of almost unmixed sand and at
the 3-foot level occurred a very thin deposit similar to that of the
upper 2 feet. For the next 2 feet there was an absolutely clean layer
of sand and under this a thick black layer composed of broken ani-
mal bones and stone artifacts (fig. 151). Although every bit of this

oo

a ag tate Sn

er a ad ab a ae

Fic. 150——Trench across the top of stratified butte.
(Photograph by Lee A. Daniels.)

deposit was screened, not one piece of pottery was found in the lower
strata which rests on the hard material of the mesa. This was also
confirmed by the later work of Lee A. Daniels, a member of our
party, who continued the trial excavations for several days after my
departure. Flint artifacts were abundant in this lower layer but
differed markedly from those in the upper levels. This site with its
upper layers indicating prehistoric Caddoan occupation and its much
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1931 157

more ancient nonpottery culture in the lower deposit is tremendously
important. Thanks to the action of Mr. Green, the owners of the site
have granted the Smithsonian Institution exclusive rights to continue
excavations here and it is planned to continue with the work early
next season.

From Scottsbluff, our party drove on to Vermilion, S. Dak., where
a group of Plains and Upper Mississippi archeologists held a confer-
ence from August 31 to September 3. After an exceedingly interesting
meeting, the writer, with other members of the conference, accom-
panied W. H. Over on a visit to various prehistoric village sites along

oer

tases

Fic. 151.Bottom strata, north end of original trench, where broken
bones and stone implements occurred, but no pottery. (Photograph by
Lee A. Daniels.)

the Missouri River. These sites are strikingly situated on bluffs just
above the river and are remarkable for their size, their splendid pres-
ervation and the clearly delineated earthworks which surround them.
It is impossible to obtain adequate photographs of such sites owing to
their location on the highest points in the vicinity. They should, how-
ever, show up beautifully from the air and it is to be hoped that an
airplane survey of the Upper Missouri River may be arranged before
the plow or other modern agency destroys them. Some of these sites
appear to be entirely prehistoric and a striking resemblance was noted
between pottery from certain of these villages and the ceramic re-
mains characteristic of the prehistoric Pawnee culture in Nebraska.
Under the expert guidance of Mr. Over a large number of such sites
158 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

were visited and the writer was tremendously impressed by the great
size and good preservation of these ancient villages which are so abun-
dant throughout the Arikara and Mandan country of North and South
Dakota. [specially interesting was a large, double village above
Mobridge, S. Dak. This Arikara town, visited by Lewis and Clark
and many other early explorers, was abandoned by the Indians in
1832, nine years after the bombardment of the town by United States
troops under the command of Colonel Leavenworth.

Excavation work at this site is planned during the coming year in
order to positively determine the archeological criteria that distinguish
the historic Arikara. When these have been determined it will be
easier to work out the apparently complex sequence of cultures in
the region.

From Mobridge, the writer drove up to the little town of Nishu
on the Fort Berthold Reservation, N. Dak., in order to visit the living
Arikara Indians. Thanks to the assistance of Dr. M. R. Gilmore, of
the University of Michigan, pleasant contacts were soon made with
numerous good informants and plans were laid for future ethnologi-
cal research into the culture of this extremely important but compara-
tively little known Plains tribe. Since the Arikara, the most northerly
of all the Caddoan-speaking peoples, may well have been the carriers
of the prehistoric horticultural civilization into the northern Plains it
is essential that they be studied while old informants are still available.

Looking back over the main results of the reconnaissance, it appears
that the prehistoric Pawnee culture may be traced through southern
and central Nebraska, up the North Platte River and over to the Mis-
souri River in South Dakota. It is lacking along the Missouri River in
Nebraska where another prehistoric horizon, now termed the Ne-
braska culture, takes its place. The connection between the prehistoric
Pawnee and an advanced prehistoric people, presumably the ancestral
Arikara in South Dakota extends this early Caddoan horizon far to
the north at an earlier time than has generally been supposed. It is
already apparent that a combined archeological and ethnological ap-
proach to this problem will open new and unexpected vistas in Plains
prehistory.
THe. CAVE CUELURE, OF ARKANSAS

By WINSLOW M. WALKER
Associate Anthropologist, Bureau of American Ethnology

The cave region of the Ozarks in north central Arkansas has long
been considered a likely place in which to look for evidences of an
early type of American aborigine. Last summer the opportunity came
for the writer to visit that section as his first field trip for the Bureau
of American Ethnology. A letter from a correspondent at Gilbert,
Ark., spoke of caves in that vicinity, in which it was thought traces
of ancient human remains might be found. Proceeding directly to this
locality a stay of seven weeks was made, during which some 16
caves in the neighborhood of Buffalo River in parts of Marion and
Searcy counties were explored and three were carefully excavated.

These caves occur in the limestone ledges of the Boone and St. Joe
formations of Lower Mississippian age, here and there lying un-
conformably on sandstone of the Lower Ordovician. Where these
limestone ledges outcrop along the streams and small creeks caves are
sometimes found at the heads of side hollows. These are due to the
action of underground rivers cutting away the soft limestone in an
attempt to escape and join the streams in the creek beds. The cav-
erns thus formed have large open mouths affording excellent sites
for human habitation. Although many of them are now dry, some
still contain small streams, usually at one side of the cave near the wall.
It is in the dry caves that extensive deposits of dust, dirt, and ashes
yield unmistakable evidence of primitive man’s former occupancy.

The first cave visited was located near a bend in Buffalo River about
half a mile above the town of Gilbert. A long gallery winding about
for some 150 feet under the hill opened out under the limestone ledge
at the head of a small cove 40 feet above the river level. This aperture
had been nearly closed by the filling in of talus fallen from the over-
hanging ledge, leaving a hole just wide enough to permit a man to
crawl inside. The owner of the property decided it would make a
good storehouse for his dairy products because of the cold draft of
air issuing from the underground gallery, and in beginning to clear
out the chamber had encountered a dry dust which he mistook for
ashes. Being of a scientific turn of mind he wrote in to the Bureau of
American Ethnology to invite investigation of his cave on the chance
of finding human remains there. But after three days of the hardest

II 159
160 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

kind of labor with pick, shovel, and crowbar attempting to remove
the great blocks of fallen rock imbedded in a tough red gritty clay, and
not finding so much as a potsherd or flint chip to reward our efforts,
we at last gave up.

After this experience, time was taken for a scouting trip over the
country, which revealed several promising localities where flints,
potsherds, and camp refuse were actually present. These caves lie
in the watershed of Water Creek and other small tributaries of
Buffalo River in the northern part of Searcy and the southern part of
Marion counties, Ark.

A small cave on Bear Creek about a mile across the river from
Gilbert was chosen as the next site for excavation. Like the other this
was also the mouth of a long winding gallery which we followed back
for a distance of 345 feet until the narrowing passage, fallen rocks,
and sticky clay floor prevented further advance. An examination of
the walls and floor with a flashlight revealed nothing left by aboriginal
human agency, but modern names were carved on the rocks in several
places. Stalactites and stalagmites occurred in several parts of the gal-
lery. The mouth of the cave was not blocked as in the other case, but
a low ridge composed of detritus fallen from the overhanging ledge
extended across the front. This front chamber had a width of 36
feet at the mouth, and for several feet back from the entrance was
high enough for a man to stand up in. The back wall of the chamber
was 20 feet from the mouth. This location—a southeast exposure 28
feet above the creek and 48 feet away from it—would have made it
a good spot for a camp site of a small group of people. More recently
it had served as a shelter for sheep and goats.

Ten days were devoted to the work of clearing out this cave with
the following results: Artifacts of stone, flint, and bone were found,
together with quantities of small fresh-water snail shells, some mussel
shells, and fragments of bones of many kinds of game animals broken
and charred, but no human burials. Pottery was of a very crude type,
gray and some reddish ware, heavily tempered with shell, unpainted
or decorated in any way, but with small handles attached to the rim
and with flat bottoms. Fireplaces with water-worn stones in place
were found at the front of the cave and even outside on the terrace
slope. Everything seemed to point to the conclusion that this cave was
used only as a temporary camping site for a small party of people
probably engaged in hunting and fishing.

It was the large cave at Cedar Grove at the head of a little hollow
just off Water Creek that yielded the most significant finds. This was
an immense cavern measuring 68 feet across the mouth, 73 feet to the
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1931 161

Fic. 152.._Appearance of Cedar Grove Cave at the start of excavation. Day-
light extends back into this cavern for about 75 feet.

Fic. 153.—The first burial found in the cave at Cedar Grove, that of an
old man.
162 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

back wall, and 30 feet from the overhanging ledge to the ground be-
low. The stream that had carved this huge recess was no longer visi-
ble, but the spring issuing out of the foot of the slope 25 feet below
the cave’s mouth may be a remnant of it. Thus a large dry shelter
was left which was admirably suited to human occupancy.

It took us nearly three weeks to clear this cavern and remove the
piles of ash, charcoal, dust, and dirt that had accumulated in places
to a depth of 5 feet on the floor. The highest part of the deposit was
at the front of the cave where a ridge had been built up across the
mouth by rocks and earth falling from the cliff. Some of these fallen
blocks were so large that it would have required dynamite to dislodge
them ; therefore only those were attempted that could be removed after
breaking with a sledge hammer.

Ten burials were uncovered, comprising probably 12 persons. They
were all in the flexed position except one individual, a male, whose
bones had evidently been tied in a bundle and dropped into a hole
where they were found partly resting on the flexed skeleton of a
female. The ubiquitous “ treasure hunter,” the bane of archeologists,
had been at work in the back part of the cavern and had disturbed
and broken up the bones of several burials. Of those burials which
could be identified there were three adults, two of them males; one
adolescent male ; and six very young children and infants. The bones
of a dog were found near one of the child burials in a position which
indicated careful interment with the forelegs crossed over the hind-
legs. This would seem to indicate domestication of the dog as a pet
among these primitive cave dwellers, especially as no fragments of
burned or broken dog bones occurred in the refuse heaps. The burials
were for the most part without mortuary objects. Two or three arrow-
points were found in one grave, and a necklace of some 600 fresh-
water snail shells were found draped about the face and body of a
tiny infant. The burials themselves were scattered from front to
back of the cave and ranged in depth from 10 to 32 inches. No at-
tention seemed to have been paid to orientation of the bodies.

The skulls are dolichocephalic tending toward mesocephalic. There
is a slight indication of asymmetrical occipital deformation. Teeth are
well preserved and show little evidence of having been prematurely
worn down by gritty food. No pathological conditions of the bones
have been found.

The artifacts from this cave consisted largely of stone, flint, bone,
and shell; with a crude, undecorated, flat-bottomed, shell-tempered
pottery ; but no traces of wooden objects or textiles of any kind.
Flint artifacts comprised the largest class, numbering 233 specimens
‘UBUIOM B® JO

‘paaoulad Usdq pey d[BUI B JO [eIINq s[puNnq SsurIA[I9AO UOJIJAYS Poxo] 9Y} UO SuIjsoi ueul B JO SoUOg po[puNngq ay fT,
ee JY} Jd}JV UOJI[OYS s[eVWsf Ppaxoy oy} SuImMOoYS—SST “oy ‘SABI JY} JO [TEM Yorq oy} Avou [elang sjqnoq—PVSI ‘dIy
ra
=
Se)

OV

EXPLORATIONS,

SMITHSONIAN

164 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

of spearheads, javelin heads, knives, drills, and scrapers, all made
from native flint of various shades from white to black. Generally
crude in workmanship owing partly to poor quality of flint, there is
little about these points that is distinctive. Most of them exhibit
notched and stemmed bases in varying degrees. But no true triangular
types were found. The other stone artifacts are hammers and grind-
ers made of water-worn stones with little artificial shaping. No pol-
ished celts, grooved axes, or pestles were found. Fifty bone tools
and implements were recovered comprising awls, punches, needles,
pins, and similar articles. The most interesting bone artifact was a
small broken piece of deer antler notched near the tip, suggesting its
use as part of an atlatl or throwing-stick. M. R. Harrington writes
that it closely resembles the shape of the atlatls found by him ex-
cept that this one is of bone instead of wood. As further support for
this theory it was found that many of the flint projectile points are of
the type associated by Harrington with his atlatls, a diamond-shaped
point with contracting stem. Snail-shell beads have already been
mentioned as being the only form of ornamentation discovered. They
had small holes punched—not drilled—in them, to permit stringing.
Mussel shells used as spoons were found inside the carapace of box
tortoise shells which had been scraped out to serve as bowls or dishes.

Summing up the traits of this cave culture and comparing them
with those of the known Ozark Bluff-dwellers we find the following
common to both: water-worn stones used as crude hammers ; manos
and metates; smal! chipped axes, diamond-shaped spear and dart
points, also some notched and stemmed forms but no true small arrow-
points ; bone awls and needles, antler-tip flakers ; flat-bottomed, coarse,
thick, shell-tempered, undecorated pottery; turtle-shell dishes and
mussel-shell spoons. The more perishable articles of material culture
such as basketry, textiles, and wooden objects may also have been
present but may have disappeared through the destructive action of
the damp cave atmosphere.

Following the completion of the work in the caves, three sites
containing petrographs were visited. At two localities there were true
petroglyphs—pictures and symbols carved into the surface of rocks.
The third exhibited painted pictures in red ochre on the wall at the
back of a rock shelter. This was known locally as Jacobs Rock, situ-
ated on a spur of Boston Mountain about 6 miles south of the town
of Snowball at the head of Calf Creek. The figures depicted were of
both animate and inanimate objects—humans, snakes, tracks, sun,
moon, stars, and unrecognizable forms. On the outer edge of the
wall the pictures were blurred and obliterated. That they were done
Fic. 156.—Projectile points from Cedar Grove Cave, Ark. These
were probably spear and dart points, as they are too large and poorly
finished for arrowheads. The three specimens on the right side, third
roy from the top, were the type most suitable for use with the atlatl

arts.

165
166 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Pic. 157.—Petroglyph rocks near Snowball, Ark. Note the huge block
that has been moved by the “treasure hunters.”

Fic. 158.—Jacobs Rock shelter near Snowball, showing man looking toward
pictograph.
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1931 167

Fic. 159.—Petroglyphs at Indian Grotto near Edgemont, Ark. The dia-
monds may have been a conventionalized way of representing the pattern
on a rattlesnake.

Fic. 160.—Horse and human figures. Indian Grotto petroglyphs. These are
the figures which have given rise to the Spanish legend.
168 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

by Indians seems plausible from the pile of ashes and refuse under
the shelter, in which potsherds, flints, and bone fragments were found.

In the other direction from Snowball, on the farm of Mr. Burns,
some curious rocks bearing petroglyphs were found in a field on a
little knoll not far from Calf Creek. These rocks, 33 in number, lay
with only their flat surfaces exposed at the level of the ground; on
these surfaces geometric figures—circles, combinations of circles, and
dots within circles—were inscribed. Time and weather had so nearly
obliterated these carvings that it was necessary to brush the rocks
clean, dampen them with water, and then dust fine sand into the de-
pressions in order to bring them out at all clearly. In addition to the
purely geometric designs there were realistic representations of hu-
man hand and foot prints and of tracks of other animals. The nature
and location of these rock carvings suggest they were made with a
ceremonial purpose, possibly the records of clan or tribal gatherings.

Petroglyphs were also found in a cave known as the “ Indian
Grotto,” near Edgemont. This was a great recess 122 feet wide and
80 feet deep carved out of a perpendicular wall of sandstone. The
eastern side was filled with an extensive deposit of camp refuse, ashes,
and charcoal, above which on the wall within reach of a person stand-
ing on the floor were the petroglyphs, carved into the soft rock as
deep as half an inch in some places. Here naturalistic figures pre-
dominated. There were realistic figures of men, turtles, birds, and
other animals, and some geometric figures of diamonds, straight bars,
and disks, but most interesting of all were the numerous representa-
tions of conventionalized human beings, and an animal strongly sug-
gesting a horse. It is this group of figures that has given rise to the
popular tradition that this cave was visited by the Spaniards, who
of course must have buried some of their gold there and left the
carvings as a record of the event! Naturally this has led to consider-
able digging in the floor of the cavern, and the petroglyphs have been
very nearly obliterated.

The most surprising thing about these sites is that although they.
are within a hundred miles of one another no two of them exhibit the
same type of figures, some being geometric, others naturalistic, and
others conventionalized realistic types. The inference is that each
type has been made by a different tribe, perhaps for a different pur-
pose. The Osage and Cherokee are known to have lived in this region
and careful investigation as to whether or not they made rock pictures,
and if so what forms, may throw some light on this problem.
A RECONNAISSANCE OF NORTHERN LOUISIANA
MOUNDS

By WINSLOW M. WALKER
Associate Anthropologist, Bureau of American Ethnology

In the middle of July, 1931, after completing an investigation of
the caves in the Ozarks of north central Arkansas, the writer went to
Louisiana to investigate reports of newly discovered mound and
village sites. Headquarters were established at Briarwood, the sylvan
home of Miss Caroline Dormon and her sister, Mrs. Miller, near
Chestnut, La. These ladies have an enthusiastic interest in everything
pertaining to the history, ancient or modern, of their native State, and
they have been most energetic in informing the Bureau of American
Ethnology of the need for archeological work in their State.

With Miss Dormon as guide it was possible to visit a large number
of sites covering an area in the northern part of Louisiana from Red
River on the west to the Mississippi on the east and as far south as
Marksville, all in a period of four weeks. No intensive excavation
was attempted on this trip, as it seemed desirable to get a general idea
of the archeological work still to be done in that part of the State be-
fore choosing the most promising site for future work. Earlier in-
vestigations have been confined almost entirely to the Red, Black, and
Ouachita river valleys, little attention being paid to sites existing in
the hinterland between them. Unfortunately, many of the mounds in
Louisiana have been dug over with little or no attention to the strati-
fication or association of the specimens found, and these mounds, of
course, now have little to offer to the archeologist.

Certain yellowed old maps in the possession of Mrs. Cammie G.
Henry at Melrose Plantation were found to give the approximate lo-
cation of some of the Caddo tribes including the Adai, Yatasi, Petit
Caddo, and Grand Caddo. A good many days were devoted to running
down all possible clues to these village sites with a fair degree of
success. The Adai village was located on a small creek in the vicinity
of the present town of Robeline, about 25 miles west of Natchitoches.
This was also the site of the Spanish mission at Los Adaes, later ac-
quiring even more prominence as the capital of the newly created
province of Tejas. Although this village site has long been under
cultivation a few flint artifacts were found on the surface in a corn-
field. One Yatasi village in all probability formerly stood on land

169
INSTITUTION

SMITHSONIAN

Ji

‘peay ay} apisaq
nps ut uMOYs AJd}}Oq ‘soysopyyeN TesuU ays Asa
-yoyey YSIyJ UO PUNO] UOJIJ9ys popeay-}e[4J—ZOT “OT

“TOA pay OUT poyseMm MoU “pooqs A] 1UIIO4
ISET[IA eseoy doyM yulod sso19e SULYOOT—I9I “OT

SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1931 7A

now occupied by the city of Shreveport, so that all traces of it have
now been lost. Several miles north of the town is Caddo Lake, on
the north side of which was the village of the Petit Caddo. The
Grand Caddo were still farther north on the bend of Red River some-
where near where Texarkana now stands. These sites are the ones
visited by Athanase de Mezieres, governor of Natchitoches first under
French and later under Spanish dominion in the latter part of the
eighteenth century. In addition to the village sites there are many
conical and some flat-topped mounds in this part of Red River valley.
It is likely that they were built by the Caddo, but it will require
further systematic digging to determine this point; unfortunately
these mounds have been particularly subject to the destructive digging
mentioned above, so that very few are left intact.

An attempt to locate the Koasati village, which presumably gave
its name to the town of Coushatta, revealed that the site had been
completely swept away when the river changed its course, eating into
the point of land between Red River and Coushatta Bayou. The high
water of 1908 cut into the eastern bank until a bluff some 20 feet
high was formed.

About a mile south of Natchitoches on the bank of Cane River
lake a new fish hatchery is being constructed by the United States
Bureau of Fisheries. During the course of this work several Indian
burials were discovered and with them some pieces of pottery. Un-
fortunately most of this material was destroyed or damaged beyond
repair. The writer hearing of this discovery, hastened to the spot,
where through the courtesy of the superintendent, Mr. Casler, it
was possible to save some of the pottery fragments. These when pieced
together disclosed a portion of a beautiful polished black ware vessel
decorated with incised scroll designs typical of the Caddo pottery. A
few days later a long distance telephone call told of the discovery of
another burial. Fortunately this one was damaged but little by the
scraper, and it was possible to uncover the entire skeleton of a
female, lying extended at full length, with an excessively flattened
skull due to fronto-occipital pressure. This extreme type of artificial
deformation has very rarely been observed in this part of the south.
Lying by the right side of the head were two pieces of pottery, a
jug and a bowl, of simple workmanship in coarse, poorly fired clay,
heavily shell-tempered, and without decoration. Careful investigation
of the surrounding area for about 20 square feet failed to reveal any
other burials. There was no indication of a mound over the body,
which lay on red sandy soil deposited by the river overflows, and the
depth was estimated at about 2 feet below the original ground surface.
172 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

A special trip of three days was made to the important large group
of mounds at Marksville, stopping en route to examine sites reported
in the vicinity of Alexandria, La. Near the town of Lecompte on
Bayou Boeuf a group of four flat-topped pyramidal mounds was
visited and although one of them had been the scene of earlier digging
it is quite possible that systematic excavation might still reveal new
evidence as to the identity of the builders of the mounds. The Marks-
ville group has been worked over by several investigators, the result
being that such mounds as have escaped levelling under the process of
cultivation present the appearance of small craters, good sized pits

Fic. 163.—Fronto-occipital deformed female skull, Natchitoches, La. This
is an example of extreme head flattening by means of pressure applied to
the skull from boards tied on the front and the back of the head during
infancy.

having been scooped out of the tops, or else they are merely shells of
mounds left after the digging of broad trenches through their centers.
However, to the north of the structures in Enclosure A, as the main
eroup is called, there are more mounds down on the bottom lands
below the property of Alfred Greenhouse, a mulatto who lives on the
bluff. These mounds, seven in number, comprise four flat-topped
quadrilateral and three lower conical structures, all in definite rela-
tionship to one another. Tiny flint points and a variety of potsherds
were picked up at this site, which looks like a profitable locality for
further excavation. It is interesting to note that this group was com-
pletely submerged to a depth of 4 feet over the top of the highest
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1931 172

Fic. 164.—Two big mounds in field of Alfred Greenhouse, near Marks-
ville, La. These are of the flat-topped quadrilateral type common to the

low country bordering the Mississippi.

Fic. 165.—Group of mounds in bottom lands near Marksville below the
Greenhouse property.
174. SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

mound during the floods of 1927, thus removing any possibility of
their having been erected to serve as places of refuge during high
water periods.

But it was at Jonesville at the junction of the Ouachita, Catahoula,
and Tensas rivers to form Black River that the writer was to experi-
ence his most bitter disappointment. Jonesville, or Troyville, as it was
formerly called, is built on the site of a mound village similar to the one
at Marksville. Another similarity is the low embankment of earth that
encloses the ancient town on three sides between the Little and Black
rivers. Conspicuous in the group was a very large mound possibly
similar to the great mound of Cahokia, as it is described as being a
great flat-topped pyramid with another broad platform near its base.
Estimates as to its original size vary, some observers of over a hun-
dred years ago giving its height as 60 to 80 feet, and its base area
as covering over an acre of ground. Thomas in 1882 described it
as being 45 feet high, 270 feet long, and 180 feet wide. This was the
structure which the writer, visiting Jonesville about the middle of
August, found had been levelled to the ground only three days before
his arrival by a road construction company which used the dirt as a
fill for the approach to the new highway bridge being built at that
point. Of course the owner of the mound was delighted at the op-
portunity to get rid of what had been to him a “ white elephant,” but
the loss to science from this act is inestimable. This was the first time
such an enormous mound had ever been so thoroughly razed and it
would have been a golden opportunity to have studied the method of
construction of such a mound and perhaps to have found out some-
thing of the purpose for which it was built.

On looking over the site where the mound had stood it was noticed
that scraps of cane stuck out above the levelled surface over an area
150 feet long and 50 feet wide. This possibly was part of the ma-
terial from which the temple or chief’s house had been built. Later for
some unknown reason the great mound had been raised over it. An-
other curious thing was that various colored clays were found which
were foreign to the native gumbo of that region, and hence must
have been brought from some unknown locality. Some of the clay
contained a bright blue mineral, “ vivianite,”’ evidently used as col-
oring matter for some of the wood in the structure, as a fragment of
timber thus colored was found. This instance serves to show the
immediate need for scientific excavation of these mounds in Louisiana
before any more of them are destroyed.
FIELD STUDIES AMONG THE IROQUOIS TRIBES

By JoN. B. HEWITT
Ethnologist, Bureau of American Ethnology

In May, 1931, the writer left Washington to resume his field
studies among the Iroquois tribes dwelling in Ontario, Canada, and
in the State of New York.

As early as 1898 the writer had begun to record lengthy traditions
in the native dialects of the several Iroquois tribes relating to the
founding of the League of the Five Iroquois Tribes, and giving
important biographical data concerning the personalities of the leading
founders of the League.

In the main, these several traditions were consistent one with an-
other, but naturally there were wide and basic variations ; and these
divergencies are so fundamental, in many instances, that it was im-
perative to find, if possible, by revisions and constructive interpre-
tations, a consistent historical background to the events leading to
the founding and establishment of the League of the Five Iroquois
Tribes.

To have published these traditions as first related and recorded by
the native annalists would have led to utter confusion in any en-
deavor to understand the purpose and structure of the League. An
example of this may be found in the fact that in published lists of
the number of Federal Chiefs of the League the figure is usually set
at 50, although the correct number is 49; this error was due to a
gross misunderstanding of a passage in the Ritual of the Eulogy of
the Founders by the late Chief Thomas Webster, who for years was
the Wampum-keeper of the New York Onondaga. Unwittingly, he
mistook the office of Chief Warrior for that of a Federal Chief.
Owing to his official position Webster’s error was gradually adopted
by the best annalists. It required the facts recounted in the legend
of the transfer of the Deer Clan from the Cayuga to the Onondaga
tribe, to correct Webster’s unaccountable blunder.

In revising and retyping the variant native texts in the Onondaga,
the Mohawk, and the Cayuga, concerning the birth and life-work of
the prophet-statesman Deganawida, difficult problems of coordination
and exegesis are brought out.

The uniform version of the several extant traditions is that his
birth was parthenogenetic, it being asserted that his mother was a

12 175
INSTITUTION

SMITHSONIAN

170

‘epeue)
‘UOIJBAIISOY «JOARQ «-pueiny ay} jo esepuoug
ue ‘uospueis pue uYyof plAeq joly)—'ZOI ‘oI

‘BpBUR) ‘OLIBJUG ‘OAL
pueirny 94} J9AO Altay POOMS]oIyy) Je Ue
-AI19} OY} “BOIUIG B ‘UddI4) BSSa(—9gI “DIY

IN

SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, I93I

‘A CN ‘ST[RQ erteseiyy 3e
SaplayyY soluny ssip ‘Suripuvjs fuosio}eg Ale “Sty ‘uo

SIpeS SSIf “USI 0} Jo] poywas :udsWIOM BIOIBOSN[—'69I1 ‘OTY

“UeSIOW
“WA Teg "JOD ‘suoneN XI ay} JO JUopusazuriodng ay} Aq payzoa19
pleog-usis ‘1aMoy * URI[[IAA IIS JO uospuRis eB ‘uosuyot
‘WOH ‘SD jo swoy s0ul10; dy} ‘poomsyaryD ‘saddq—'ggr ‘oy

_NO{ SAUD] uoijey sronbo.s] ay J. |
SAUSS3AY SNOILLVN XIS OL

NOSNHOP ANITAVd ~ SSALIOd NVIGN

1vV3d9 3H1 JO JDVIGHIAIG JHIL

.QOOMSAdIHD,, 51-141

178 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

virgin. Hitherto, the available traditions gave Djigo™sa’sc”’, 1. e., the
Fatfaced, meaning the Wild Cat, as the name of his mother. But,
this incongruous epithet is due clearly to a Seneca mishearing of the
correct name, namely, Djigo™sa‘’séé’, and to a worse confusion as to
her native land.

The uniform traditional statements that the mother of Deganawida
was a virgin mother indicated that underlying them there must be an
ideal figure, a symbolic type of womanhood and motherhood. But,
owing directly to the misapprehensions just mentioned, this noble
figure of a symbolic woman, the type of pure motherhood, was utterly
lost from the traditional accounts. This discovery led the writer to
see the need for a thorough search in the field for a living tradition
in which this ideal mother is fully expressed. Such an ideal enhances
the charm of the birth story of Deganawida and makes more en-
thralling the historicity of such a personage in the Stone Age of
America.

The writer was highly gratified by his good fortune in recovering
two such traditions, although fragmentary. The one he obtained from
Chief Joseph Jacobs, a Cayuga, and Chief David Skye, an Onondaga,
both of whom have died since imparting this information; the other
version was contributed by Chief David John, an Onondaga.

Briefly, this new information recites that the mother of Deganawida
was called Djigo™sa@'séé’. This name signifies literally “‘ She-Whose-
Face-is-Doubly-New ”; that is to say, having a face twice as pure
and innocent as that of a newly born infant; a face which is pure,
unsoiled, the face of a virgin because uncontaminated by contact with
man or with any other earthly thing.

In the ceremonies inaugurating the Chiefs of the first Federal
Council of the League, Djigo™sa‘’see’, the mother of Deganawida,
took a prominent part as a Woman [ederal Chieftainess to impress
dramatically upon the participants the serious lesson that all future
Woman Federal Chieftainesses, the Trustees of their several kinship
ohwachira (families) must be virtually Virgin Mothers—mnust be as
pure as was the mother of the great founder of the League.

This forcefully ejects the erroneous “ Wild Cat” interpretation
noted above, and completes the symbolic ideals embodied in the organic
structure of the League of the Five Nations of Iroquois.

The writer also visited the Tuscarora near Niagara Falls; here he
obtained several photographs of Indian women who were selling bead-
work in the Park at Niagara Falls, N. Y.
AN THROPOLOGICAE STUDIES IN OKLAHOMA,
IOWA, AND MONTANA

By TRUMAN MICHELSON
Ethnologist, Bureau of American Ethnology

Leaving Washington at the close of May for the season’s field-work,
] first visited Oklahoma, where my attention was confined exclusively
to the Southern Cheyenne. The prime object was to restore phoneti-
cally some 700 Cheyenne words and stems (extracted previously
from Petter’s dictionary ) which can be rigorously shown to be Algon-
quian in origin. With correct restoration it is possible to enunciate
the phonetic shifts transforming normal Algonquian into aberrant
Cheyenne with greater precision than previously. Incidentally much
new ethnological information was obtained—a great deal in an auto-
biography of a Cheyenne woman.

I also measured some 23 Cheyennes, among them rr full-blood
adult males. Combining this with the series reported last year it is
very clear that the range of absolute measurements is great. For
example, the minimum and maximum for head-length is 180 and 210
mm. respectively for adult male Southern Cheyennes. It is my belief
that students of human paleontology are likely to ignore the great
variations in living man and so are too prone to making a new species
or genus of a skull that varies slightly from the usual run (e. g., Sinan-
thropus 1). In this connection I may add that in my collections I
find the head-length of a white adult male American, of English and
Scotch descent, though American on both sides for at least four
generations, to be 212 mm. No doubt had this been found in the
ground it would have been heralded as a new species.

Near the middle of July I left for Tama, Iowa, to obtain additional
material on Fox ceremonials, in which I was very successful. While
at Tama I learned of the alleged discovery of human remains in gravel
pits near Stratford, Iowa, and in company with Doctor Thone of
Science Service I visited the site. The first man interviewed did not
make it clear that two such pits were involved, so I personally ex-
amined only the gravel pit north of Stratford. Fortunately Doctor
Thone subsequently learned from the mayor of the town of the second
gravel pit southwest of the town and inspected it; there he obtained
some additional information which is embodied in this report. The

179
180 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Pic. 170.—Gravel pit southwest of Stratford, Iowa. (Photograph by
Thone, 10931.)

Frc. 171.—The frame of a Sun Dance lodge, Lame Deer, Mont.
181

SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, I93I1

“UOS[IYIIPY 10}
-00q] 10} JojotdsojUuy, “pooyq-paxiu suuaAdq)
UIOUVION ev “‘pur[MOY WeIT[IAA—EeZI “1

“eUOYRI[YO Ul WINjOJF SUOS[OYyPIyY 10}20q
SEM SeeY YoRIY ‘pylyo pue ‘auusdoyD Uso
-yynosg poojq-jey & ‘seep YoeRyY—cZI1 ‘914

4
7

182 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

gravel pits were thoroughly wrecked by steamshovels, so that little
could be gained from their inspection. It appears that the skeletons
were exposed while the alluvium was being scooped away ; thus most
of the material was quite useless for scientific purposes. The four
fragmentary skulls, however, tell the story very plainly. They are
unmineralized, and patently of modern type; contrary to the state-
ment made in the local newspapers, the sex of those that could be
determined was male. Fortunately alluvial soil was inside one skull.
The presence also of some gravel indicates a subsoil burial—nothing
more. The associated potsherds are Algonkian in type. The mineral-
ized tusk, lower jaw, and molar of a mammoth (which | saw) ap-
parently came from the same gravel horizon, but from a different
locality. The gravel thus is clearly Pleistocene, but the human remains
are modern. So again what appeared to be evidence of ancient man
in America is overthrown.

In August I left lowa and went among the Northern Cheyenne of
Montana with the primary object of restoring the list of words and
stems, mentioned above, according to Northern Cheyenne phonetics.
Incidentally it was determined that Southern and Northern Cheyenne
differ in speech rather more than has been supposed. By good fortune
I was able to measure a really representative group of Northern
Cheyenne. Though the results of these measurements have not yet
been worked up in a statistical sense, nevertheless the indications are
that the vault of the skull is rather low, thus resembling the skull of
Dakota Sioux rather than that of most Algonkins. I also took ad-
vantage of the occasion to gather some new ethnological information.

RECORDING INDIAN MUSIC

By FRANCES DENSMORE
Collaborator, Bureau of American Ethnology

Continuing her study of Indian music for the Bureau of Ameri-
can Ethnology, the writer made four field trips during 1931, two to
the Winnebago Indians of Wisconsin and two to the Seminole of
southern Florida.

Winnebago songs were recorded near Wisconsin Dells and at a
basket-maker’s camp near Holmen, Wis. The principal subject under
consideration was the peyote cult, though additional information was
obtained on material previously collected and interesting specimens
were secured. The organization which has been created around the
use of peyote was studied chiefly as a religious expression of Indians
in a transitional state of culture. It includes many native customs,
together with the simpler teachings of Protestantism. There are two
branches of this organization, one following John Rave, who used
the rite of baptism and the Lord’s Prayer, and the other branch fol-
lowing his associate, Jesse Clay, whose teachings show a reversion to
native customs, such as the use of certain songs for each of the four
periods of the night. The ceremonial songs of both branches were
recorded by men who have taken leading parts in the ceremony. Wil-
liam Thunder recorded the songs of the John Rave branch, and James
Yellowbank (fig. 174) recorded the songs of the Jesse Clay branch,
described the ceremony in detail, and drew a diagram of the cere-
monial lodge. A young man recorded a song he received in a vision
induced by peyote, and described the vision. Numerous general songs
of the cult which had been learned by the Winnebago from other
tribes were also recorded.

Pueblo Indians from Acoma and Cochiti took part in certain pag-
eants given at Wisconsin Dells and by listening to their singing in the
pageants it was possible to corroborate a previous observation that
Pueblo Indians unconsciously raise the pitch of a song during its
performance. James Paytiamo, an Acoma, added to material pre-
viously obtained on the songs and customs of this tribe, and Ever-
green Tree, a Cochiti, recorded additional songs of the buffalo dance,
enacted two Cochiti dances, and amplified the translations of songs
recorded by him in 1930.

183
184 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Itc. 174.—James Yellowbank Fic. 175——Cory Osceola’s
(Winnebago). wife and infant child. (Pho-

tograph by Miss Densmore. )

caer a ae

Fic. 176.—Portion of Seminole village in which songs were recorded.
(Photograph by Miss Densmore.)
185

SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, I93I

IUMOT, «ouUYy

—‘Q/I

‘OY

(‘uorsstuttad Aq pasn ‘ypeyeyy ‘OD
Aq 3y4s11kdo)) ‘(ajourmas) aniq arae

apne)
WO =a Al

“OIi]

186 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

The first trip to the Seminole of Florida was made in January and
February, 1931, and the Indians observed were from Big Cypress
Swamp. One visit was made to the southern part of the Everglades.
The second trip was begun in November and the Indians observed
were those of the Big Cypress Swamp, and also of the Cow Creek,
or northern group of the tribe, now living near Dania. The Seminole
Indians have been in contact with white men for about four centuries
but have retained their old customs in a remarkable degree and are
practically self-supporting. The Seminole of the Big Cypress Swamp
subsist chiefly by hunting alligators and game and by cultivating
small gardens in the Everglades. The fastnesses of the Everglades
conceal the important phases of their tribal life. In these deep re-
treats the medicine men still treat the sick with herbal remedies re-
vealed to them in dreams, and exercise an authority which is severe
and unquestioned. The environment of the northern group is chiefly
the flat land around Lake Okeechobee.

Both the southern and northern Seminole hold an annual Corn dance
after the corn is ripe and before it is eaten. The leader of the singing
in the Big Cypress group is Charlie Billie (fig. 177), who recorded
Corn dance songs, including the four principal songs used only on the
first night of the dance. He is required to fast before and after sing-
ing these songs. He sings each song only once, then the man who acts
as his helper sings it once, and then the people join, dancing in a
circle. He and his helper pound on small “ water drums ”’ which they
carry. Charlie Billie also recorded the songs that precede a hunting
expedition to ensure success. The people do not join in these songs.
In order to compare the Corn dance songs of the two groups, a few
Corn dance songs of the Cow Creek Seminole were sung by Willie
Jumper at Dania. From his performance it appears that the songs of
the two groups differ in structure. His sister, known as Annie Tommie
(fig. 178), supplied interesting information on tribal customs. An-
other member of the group, called Jimmie Gopher, said that in old
times he had seen the playing of a flute as well as the rattle and drum.

The dwellings of the Seminole, as well as their costumes, are ad-
inirably adapted to the climate. A typical Seminole house (fig. 181)
consists of a platform covered by a thatched gable roof supported by
posts. The average size of a house is about 11 by 14 feet, the height
of the platform (floor) is about 2} feet, and the thatch of palmetto
droops to a point about 44 feet above the ground. This thatch is held
in place by logs tied together and slung across the ridge. In the houses
of the Big Cypress Seminole seen by the writer a corner of the plat-
form about 3 feet square was cut away, providing a convenient seat
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, I931 187

Fic. 180.—Seminole cooking fire.
188 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

or shady standing place under the thatch. The Indians sit or re-
cline on the platform without using cushions, benches, or furnishings
of any sort. Their bedding consists only of light blankets which are
stored under the roof, together with personal belongings. Thus the
writer obtained an old spoon made of custard-apple wood which was
stored by thrusting it under the rafters of the roof.

A portion of the village in which songs were recorded in February,
1931, is shown in Figure 176. The interpreter was Cory Osceola, a
direct descendant of the warrior of that name. His wife and child
appear in Figure 175. Work was also done in the Seminole village
near Dania.

Several families use one cooking fire, but it appears that each has its
own food and utensils and eats alone if desired. The Seminole cooking
fire consists of logs arranged like the spokes of a wheel with an open
space in the center. The number of logs varies from five to ten and
they are equally spaced except at one point where the wider space is
often filled by a box used as a seat. In the open space at the center a
small fire is kindled for each meal and the logs are pushed forward
as they are needed. The women put their kettles and skillets on the
fire or ashes and often sit on the logs while at work. A typical camp
fire is shown in Figure 180. The people eat chiefly from the cooking
utensils. The dishes are put in pans of water after a meal, and
washed while the next meal is being prepared. A high table for dishes
is placed near the fire, and the heavy utensils are hung on crotched
sticks or on the house-posts, if not placed on this table. Between
meals the dogs often sleep in the ashes.

Corn is a staple article of food among the Seminole, and the man-
ner of planting, harvesting, and storing corn was studied, winnowing
and sifting baskets being obtained. The Big Cypress Seminole were
seen eating a porridge made of corn, the liquid being drunk from
a cup, and the corn in the bottom of the cup being removed and
eaten with the fingers.

The clothing of the Seminole at present, as in the past, is like the
brilliant plumage of tropical birds. The material is a patchwork made
by cutting cotton cloth into strips and pieces of various sizes and sew-
ing these together on hand sewing machines. Children and adults
dress alike except that some men and boys now wear dark trousers,
with full blouses of patchwork. A color scheme often appears in
an entire garment but the women seem free to combine colors as
they desire, producing a bold, artistic effect. The costume of a
woman consists of a long, full skirt and a cape, and many chains of
beads are worn about the neck. A little girl’s dress is the same but
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, I931 189

Frc. 181.—Typical Seminole house. (Photograph by Miss Densmore. )

Fic. 182—Seminole woman with turtle to be cooked for food.
(Photograph by Miss Densmore. )
Igo SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

shorter, and she wears only one or two strings of beads. A little boy
wears a dress about two inches from the ground, the waist and skirt
being gathered into a belt. A young man formerly wore a similar
dress about halfway to his knees and a man of fifty wore a shorter
dress, each costume being completed by a neckchief of plain color.
Many of the men continue to dress in this manner (fig. 179). The old
men wear a costume consisting of a cotton garment and cotton
jacket edged with a ruffle, as seen on the central figure of this group.
At present, as in former times, the men wear a neck-kerchief similar
to that of Charlie Bille (fig. 177). No patterns seen in the patchwork
can be considered native in origin. Only one sort of beads is worn
in the strings around a woman’s neck, but the number of strings in-
creases as she grows older, sometimes weighing as much as 20 or 30
pounds. These beads are of medium size and opaque, and the favorite
colors seem to be dark blue and pale, dull green or yellow. The tech-
nique of weaving beads on thread, using an oblong loom, is similar to
that of northern tribes but the result does not appear in costumes.
No foot-covering is worn by women, or children. A pair of moc-
casins, made according to the old custom, were obtained from a
man who tanned the deer hide and made them. This moccasin consists
of two pieces, one for each side of the foot, and has a gathered seam
up the front which is sharply upturned. It has a small, loose piece of
leather at toe and heel and is held in place by a thong. The old men
still wear a draped cloth turban, and are practically the only Seminole
who wear a head covering. Round ornaments of pierced silver, of
native manufacture, are fastened to the women’s capes in the front,
or suspended from their beads in the back.

The Seminole are excellent wood carvers, and interesting examples
of this work were seen among the Big Cypress Seminole. A weoden
doll with carved head was obtained, as well as dolls made of coconut
palm fiber.
SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

EXPLORATIONS AND FIELD-WORK OF THE
SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION
IN 1932

(PUBLICATION 3213)

CITY OF WASHINGTON
PUBLISHED BY THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION
a 1933

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

EXPLORATIONS AND FIELD-WORK OF THE
SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION
Nero32

(PUBLICATION 3213)

CITY OF WASHINGTON
PUBLISHED BY THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION
1933
he Lord Baltimore Prees

BALTIMORE, MD., U. 8. A.
PREFACE

In the furtherance of the Institution’s researches in various branches
of science—notably biology, geology, anthropology, and astrophys-
ics—field expeditions play an important part in providing new ma-
terial and new data. From its own limited resources the Institution
is able to pay the expenses of but a few of these expeditions ; for the
others it must depend on the generosity of friends of the Institution or
on cooperative arrangements with other institutions interested in the
same lines of scientific investigation. The accounts in the present
pamphlet for 1932 are in the nature of preliminary announcements of
the purpose, methods, and results of the season’s field-work. The
scientific results are published in full later, after the new material has
been thoroughly studied, in one of the technical series issued by the
Institution.

Owing to present economic conditions, which have materially re-
duced the funds available for publication, it has been necessary to re-
duce this book to approximately one half its normal size. It is hoped,
however, that enough is presented to show the purpose and scope of
the Institution’s investigations in the field, as well as something of
the interest of scientific exploration.

Weeks RUE

Editor, Smithsonian Institution.
CONTENTS

PAGE
Panic) pues tl untines Aiesmiinthe wy ests aco: ect. fo orca aise cee © 33
Bassler, R. S. Harvesting fossil sea lilies in the Ohio Valley.............. I
Benn, James H. Explorations for rocks and minerals in the eastern States.. 21
Collins, Henry B., Jr. Archeological investigations at Point Barrow, Alaska. 45
Cooper G.eAminar © Collectingmtossils int Gaspé arc 2-5-5205 oe eee ena 9
Cooper, G. Arthur. Stratigraphic studies in eastern New York........... 13
Densmore, Frances. Recording Seminole songs in Florida................ 93

Gilmore, Charles W. Hunting fossil animals in Nebraska, Wyoming, and

SOitthim Daten aA Lee ee eee Sol. ey ot hota Ae G/atine cae ERE oe
Harrington, J. P. Field-work among the Mission Indians of California....
Henderson, E. P. Mineral collecting in the Rocky Mountain States........
Hewitt, J. N. B. Field-work among the Iroquois Indians of New York and

(CATA AMS AL eee Ree ee Ee aie, ZO ei eee pa a eke kaa ae ee
Urdlicka, Ales. Anthropological explorations on Kodiak Island, Alaska..
Krieger, Herbert W. The early Indian cultures of Cuba.................
Michelson, Truman. Anthropological studies in Oklahoma and Iowa......
Miller Gert, S: yc, Pield-work in) PuertowRico:? xo. 2.6225 J.c82e 2 32s
Roberts, Frank H. H., Jr. Some early pueblo remains in eastern Arizona. .
Setzler; Frank M. Prehistoric cave dwellers of Texas.............-...%-
Setzler, Frank M. Salvaging an aboriginal dug-out canoe, Cumberland

lS Bribe" Greeirerel 33 bono Maat oot ot oes Go CA Erne re eee
Smith, Hugh M. Zoological collecting in Siam in 1931 and 1932...........
Stirling, M. W. Ethnoiogical researches in Panama and eastern Ecuador. .
Strong, W. D. Signal Butte, a prehistoric narrative in the High Plains....
Strong, W. D. Studying the Arikara and their neighbors on the upper

MMiSS OE ee fee eee COE CL ise eee Cee hoe os see Cait fetes bee
Swallen, J. R. Collecting grasses in Tennessee, Kentucky, and Yucatan....

Walker, Winslow M. Trailing the mound builders of the Mississippi Valley.
De tang
Wis eo ae

HARV ES PENGEROSSIE SEA EILIES IN THE
OHIO WALLEY

By Re SP BASSE ER
Head Curator of Geology, U. S. National Museum

The writer’s field activities during 1932 were concentrated into
three weeks’ investigation of certain Ohio Valley fossil localities which
had been under observation and preparation for collecting for the past
quarter century. Observations were also continued on silicification, a
subject which had interested him since 1908, when he published upon
the formation of geodes, those hollow spherical rock masses lined with
inwardly pointed crystals.

The localities visited were noted for the crinoid remains yielded
years ago, so that the present exploration contributed chiefly to the
upbuilding of the Frank Springer collection of fossil echinoderms.
During the early part of this century, the writer, under the direction
of Doctor Springer, made extensive excavations in the Silurian and
Mississippian rocks of Kentucky and Tennessee to obtain fossil cri-
noids and other echinoderms. After every specimen in sight had been
collected the quarry debris was spread out in the hope that weather-
ing would in time expose additional examples. These old dump heaps
were revisited and carefully searched on hands and knees under the
hot sun of the past summer with the result that over 300 complete
crinoids and several thousand fragmentary examples were collected.

Doctor Springer’s old quarry in the Keokuk limestone near Craw-
fordsville, Ind., was first visited, but here it was found that expensive
digging would be unwarranted. Next the early Mississippian rocks
of Indiana and northern Kentucky were searched, especially in the
Knobstone area—the belt of country encircling the fertile Blue Grass
region of Kentucky, and crossing the Ohio River near Louisville,
into Indiana, where numerous conical knobs have been left by erosion.
Button Mold Knob, just south of Louisville (fig. 1), a typical ex-
ample of one of these wooded elevations rising above a plain of
Devonian limestone and shale, exposes the fossil-bearing rocks of

Early Mississippian age in a broad gash upon its southern slope
(fig. 2). Only a few of these layers are fossil-bearing, and intensive
collecting in the past seemed to have exhausted their possibilities.
However, trenches dug along them years ago now afforded some very
excellent crinoids. Here were discovered many geodes which had
formed from the infiltration of silica in fractured crinoid stems.

I
bo

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Fic. 3.—A glade of fossiliferous early Mississippian rocks in northern Tennessee.
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1932

Fic. 4—Numbers 1 to 5 illustrating the formation of a geode from a crinoid column ;
numbers 6 to 12, unusual species of Tennessee Silurian crinoids.
4. SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

As illustrated in Figure 4, nos. 1-5, the crinoid buttons or indi-
vidual segments composing the column (no. 1) may have the central
canal filled with mineral matter deposited by circulating waters. Then
a number of segments still in position but fractured (no. 2) may have
the cracks enlarged, by such mineral matter (no. 3) and still more so
(no. 4) until there results a round, hollow ball which, when broken
(no. 5), shows the inwardly pointing crystals of a typical geode.
Silica is the principal mineral concerned in geode formation of many
areas, but the problem of replacement by silica or silicification is of
especial interest to the paleontologist because many beautiful calcare-
ous fossils buried deep in solid limestone and impossible of extraction
without marring their structure may be freed in perfect condition
through this process. In this case the organic calcite composing the
fossil is dissolved and replaced by silica, while the surrounding lime-
stone is taken into solution and removed by mineral-bearing waters
circulating through the rocks. It has been believed that such changes
by silicification required thousands of years, so that localities which
had been exhausted by present-day collecting could not be expected to
yield additional specimens for centuries to come. However, it was
shown on the present field trip that less than 25 years are required
to cause this change from the calcareous to siliceous condition in fos-
sils, when conditions are right. Fossils observed that long ago partly
buried in the solid rock and covered then with a thin layer of mud to
supply silica for the surface waters, were noted on the present visit
to have weathered out into free, completely silicified specimens.

Leaving the Kentucky Knobs, strata of the same age in northern
Tennessee were next investigated. Here the outcrops are in glades, or
bare places along the hillsides, in which every layer could be traced
often for long distances (fig. 3). Certain of these layers rich in
crinoid fragments and which had been prepared for silicification by
the writer some years ago now yielded abundant results. Proceeding
then to western Tennessee, the writer investigated some of the dump
heaps of Doctor Springer’s quarries in the Silurian formations of
Decatur and adjoining counties. Here again silicification and the usual
forms of weathering during the past 20 years had exposed some addi-
tional specimens of rare species. Among these is the crinoid Allocrinus,
with its heavy armplates and delicate column (fig. 4, no. 6) ; Euca-
lyptocrinus, with its tightly compressed arms (no. 7) ; Gnorimocrinus,
known hitherto only in Europe (no. 8) ; Gissocrinus, also a European
genus with peculiar broad plates (no. 9) ; Calceocrinus, with the crown
recumbent upon the column through a hinged articulation (no. 10)
and finally Myelodactylus, once mistaken for a coiled shell but really
a dainty crinoid in which the column encircles and protects the deli-
cate crown (nos. II, 12).
HUNTING FOSSIL ANIMALS IN NEBRASKA, WYOMING,
AND SOUTH DAKOTA

By CHARLES W. GILMORE

Curator, Division of Vertebrate Paleontology, U. S. National Museum

Our efforts of previous years have been directed toward an ade-
quate representation in the National Museum collections of all im-
portant Tertiary faunas. In continuation of this program, explora-
tion of the Oligocene was planned for 1932.

Harrison, Nebr., the county seat of Sioux County, adjacent to ex-
tensive badland areas of both Oligocene and Miocene, has for years
been the base for fossil-hunting expeditions, and here I met my field
party with camp equipment and truck. Fair success attended our
efforts in the two weeks spent in this field, although the workable ter-
ritory was much restricted owing to the presence of other collecting
parties in adjacent areas. It is of interest to note that 46 men repre-
senting 13 institutions were collecting vertebrate fossils in or near
the fields covered by us during the summer. In more than 30 years’
field experience, never before in a single season have I encountered so
many “bug hunters” as we are commonly designated by the local
ranchers.

In the vicinity of Harrison, near the summit of the Lower Harrison
formation occur the Daemonelix beds, named from the giant spirals of
hard rock which resist erosion and at many points stand out promi-
nently against the bluffs along the upper reaches of the Niobrara
River (fig. 5). These spirals, popularly called ‘‘ devil’s corkscrews,”
were originally thought to represent the spiral roots of some gigantic
plant, but later authorities have regarded them as the burrows of the
extinct rodent Stencofiber, remains of which were found inside the
spiral. Be that as it may, knowing the National Museum did not pos-
sess a specimen of Daemonelix, we grasped the opportunity to collect
a representative specimen of this interesting fossil.

While I was visiting the Colorado Museum of Natural History at
Denver, on my way to the field, the director, J. D. Figgins, voluntarily
granted permission for my party to work in their rhinoceros quarry
near Torrington, Wyo. (fig. 6), and it was decided to take advantage
of this generous offer. A few days’ work there resulted in the recovery
of a large slab of rock containing a skull and several jaws of Cacnopus,
an Oligocene rhinoceros.
6 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Itc. 5 —Daemonelix, in situ. One mile south of Van Tassel, Wyo.
Photograph by G. F. Sternberg.

Fic. 6.—Rhinoceros quarry near Torrington, Wyo.
Photograph by G. F. Sternberg.
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1932

“SAIqUAIS “YH Aq ydessojoyg
‘219 PUNO} 949M suduTDads poos Auvyy “GaN ‘AjUNOD xXnorg ‘uOostsTeP_ JO JsaMyy1OU ‘oInsodxo pue[peq sus0s1]Q [BwoIdAT—Z “oly

8 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Leaving Torrington, we worked in succession in the vicinity of
Bridgeport and Crawford in Nebraska, Pine Ridge and Scenic in
South Dakota, and Lusk and Douglas in Wyoming. A few days toa
few weeks were spent in each of these localities with varying success,
although material was collected from every place visited.

The bulk of the material collected is from the upper or Oreodon
beds of the Oligocene, although a few specimens were obtained from
the Titanotherium beds and from the Miocene formation. Among
specimens worthy of special mention is the skeleton of a hawklike
bird having the skull and lower jaws present, undoubtedly the most
complete bird specimen ever found in the Oligocene of North
America; a skull and partial skeleton of FEusmilus, a rare saber-
toothed cat ; two articulated skeletons of Mesohippus; two articulated
skeletons of Merycoidodon, and one each of Leptomery.x, a small deer-
like animal, and /schromys, a large squirrel. Several of the forms ac-
quired were previously unrepresented in the collection, and it is prob-
able that some new to science will be found when a critical study is
made. In all, the collections filled 17 large boxes having a combined
weight of 4,865 pounds.

A novel feature of the expedition was the finding of numerous
turtle skulls. The most common and widely distributed fossil of the
Oligocene faunas is the land tortoise described by Leidy as Stylemys
nebrascensis. Its fossil remains are found scattered throughout the
middle and upper Oligocene, in many places in profuse abundance.
Skulls, however, are rarely found, and for this reason a systematic
search was made in and around the many weathered shells encountered,
with the result that 15 skulls were recovered, the study of which will
furnish a most interesting contribution to our knowledge of the
turtle’s skeletal anatomy.

The Mauvaise Terre of the early French-Canadian trappers and
explorers has long been classic ground for those collecting the fossil
remains of Oligocene animals, but the somewhat prevalent idea that
its fossil treasures will be exhausted by continuous collecting, seems to
be refuted by our experience of the past summer. Several areas in
which we worked both in the big badlands and elsewhere had been ex-
plored for many seasons, some as late as the year before, and yet speci-
mens were found at every locality visited. In almost any field where
fossils occur, dogged persistence will be rewarded. The relatively
rapid erosion of these beds is constantly exposing fossils to view, and
so long as this continues there will never be a dearth of specimens.

[ was fortunate again in securing the services of George F. Stern-
berg and M. V. Walker as field assistants, and the successful outcome
of the expedition was in large part due to their intelligent and hearty
cooperation.
COREE CLING FOSSILS IN GASPE

ByeG ARTHUR COOPER
Assistant Curator, Division of Invertebrate Paleontology,
U. S. National Museum

In all Quebec Province there is perhaps no portion more pictur-
esque than Gaspé Peninsula. Bounded on the north by the St. Law-
rence River and on the west by Matapedia River, the peninsula ex-
tends into the Gulf of St. Lawrence. Along the shores of the gulf,
sediments deposited in the Palaeozoic era and containing many kinds
of fossils have been exposed by wave action. Few of these fossils
were represented heretofore in the collections of the United States
National Museum, and it was to remedy this deficiency that the writer
spent six weeks in Gaspé and northern New Brunswick.

To the eyes of the tourist the southern and eastern coasts of
Gaspé present a succession of bold cliffs separated by low land. But
to the eyes of the geologist these bold cliffs show distorted and
crumpled fossiliferous strata of great antiquity, the roots of ancient
mountains. These strata tell the old, old story of origin in an ancient
sea, followed by mountain-making disturbances which wrinkled the
sea bottoms. These contorted sea floors were elevated, and then for
eons of time weather, wave, and river joined forces to reduce the once
majestic mountains thus formed to their present modest heights.
These ancient and worn mountains of Gaspé are composed of Ordovi-
cian, Silurian, and Devonian rocks. Detailed studies record a time of
orogeny at the end of the Ordovician, followed by subsidence and
deposition of Silurian and Devonian sediments over the worn edges
of the Ordovician mountains. The middle and late Devonian saw
more mountain-building, following which, red conglomerates of the
Carboniferous period were deposited by rivers in valleys and de-
pressions. Since this latter period, so far as known, Gaspé has been
above the level of the sea.

Early settled by the French, Gaspé still retains much of the lan-
guage and some of the customs of the mother land. These French
settlers have been content to inhabit the shores of the gulf, earning
their modest, often meager, livelihood from the fish of the sea and the
few vegetables that can be raised in a short growing season. The in-
terior of the peninsula is almost a total wilderness, unsettled and
little explored, but a promising region for mineral development.
Recently a good gravel road encircling the peninsula has been com-
pleted by the Quebee government.
10

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Fie. 8—View north from Mont Joli showing Cap Barré on the right,
the southern side of Les Murailles, showing four peaks, the ‘“ Trois
Soeurs” and “ Pic d’ Aurore.”

eS a ©

Fic. 10.—Percé Rock seen from Bien Vue, Mont Ste. Anne.
IPA

SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1932

-OUUT] URIUOADCT 94} JO UOTDas-
JO A}IWI941}X9 UD}SBIyINOS ayy

SSOID & SUIMOYS

‘

*souoys
UO][14110 J 94}

peoydiys ye syyQ—ZI “oy

“yrydn
juaNbasqns pue ‘uolisodap ‘aouaSssuiqns ‘uorsosa ‘SuLyeU-UIe}
-unout JO A1O}S & S]Ja} AjOFUOUN UR YONG “VARY Jonboef
‘Angyey) Ae JO s1OYS dy} UO dzeIOWIO][Su0d pat sinjuasaou0g
pue URLINIIS 94} UsaMjoq A}WAOFUOIUN [eINjonNAyG— II “91

N
IZ SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

The writer traveled by auto to northern New Brunswick and Gaspé
from Quebec City via Matapedia Valley. The first locality visited
was Jacquet River where 2,000 feet or more of Silurian rocks are
exposed (fig. 11). Inland about 14 miles Lower Devonian shales
afford fair collecting. Thirty miles east of Jacquet River is Dalhousie,
home of one of eastern Canada’s largest pulp mills. Northeast of the
village is Stewarts Cove, along the shores of which are steeply tilted
interbedded calcareous shales and lavas. The sedimentary rocks carry
a great abundance of fine fossils, chiefly invertebrates. In Devonian
days Dalhousie was the site of numerous volcanoes and the scene of
intense vulcanism. The writer next visited New Richmond, charm-
ing English village of farmer folk. Five miles east of town along
the shore is Black Cape, composed of dark Silurian lavas under-
lain by fossiliferous sediments, all steeply tilted to the south and
southeast.

Nearly 60 miles northeast of New Richmond is Port Daniel, a
fishing village of about 2,000 inhabitants. Here the low hills are
formed by hard, resistant Silurian limestone ; the valleys and the low
shore of the bay are composed of soft Silurian shales and sandstone.
Port Daniel is a paradise for the geologist, because nowhere can
Silurian fossils be found in greater variety or abundance.

Northeast of Port Daniel is scenic Percé surrounded by bold cliffs
on the seaward side and steep and rugged hills to landward. Mont
Joli, apex of the triangular land upon which most of Percé village
rests, is formed of steeply folded Devonian sandstones and shales,
and the cliffs lining South Cove to Cap Blane are composed of Ordovi-
cian shales and limestones containing a fauna whose nearest relative
is to be found in Europe. The cliffs along the south shore of Mal
Baie, known as “ Les Murailles,” are composed of Devonian lime-
stone like that of Percé Rock.

Gaspé Basin, once a delightful tourist haven, is at the mouth of the
York River near the head of Gaspé Bay. This village is underlain by
the Gaspé sandstone in which a variety of Devonian plants and in-
vertebrates occurs. These sandstones extend southeastward along the
north shore of Gaspé Bay to Little Gaspé where they overlie Devonian
limestones which form the Grande Gréve Peninsula or Forillon. Bold
cliffs form the northeastern face of the Forillon, but the southwest-
erly side is the dip-slope of the strongly inclined limestones. Perched
precariously on the sloping face of the Forillon is Grande Greve,
quiet, unspoiled, seldom visited fishing village.

In the course of six weeks of collecting in this richly fossiliferous
country many fine specimens were added to the collections of the
United States National Museum, among them not a few new to
science.
SLRATIGRAPEAG SRUDIES IN EASTERN NEW YORK
ByiG Ano rHUR COOPER

Assistant Curator, Division of Invertebrate Paleontology,
U.S. National Museum

New York State’s classical sequence of Devonian rocks still pre-
sents to the geologist many an elusive problem, among them the de-
termination of the marine equivalents of the great mass of red and
green nonfossiliferous sediments lying at the base of the Catskill
Mountains in eastern New York. In order to determine these equiva-
lents the writer undertook the preparation of several stratigraphic
sections in this region. Before the present investigation was started
the writer had traced the various layers of the Hamilton Group from
their type locality at Hamilton, N. Y., westward to Lake Erie and
eastward to Unadilla Valley. Briefly this year’s task was to trace the
stratigraphic units established in Unadilla Valley into the red and
green beds of the Catskill front, in order to establish the equivalents
of these little-known rocks. Knowing the Unadilla Valley section
from past experience the writer planned to prepare columnar sections
in Otsego, Schoharie, and Albany counties.

The Susquehanna Valley was the first area selected for the prepara-
tion of a section. The Susquehanna River rises in beautiful Otsego
Lake (fig. 13) at the north end of the valley. Surrounded by steep
hills, charming Cooperstown at the south end of the lake is the gate-
way to the valley which stretches far to the south. Rich in the legends
of the immortal Natty Bumppo of Leatherstocking fame, the wooded
and hilly environs of this village are sure to transport the visitor back
to the days of the Iroquois and pioneer strife.

East of the Susquehanna is the valley of Schoharie Creek (fig. 15),
probably the most beautiful of New York’s numerous meridional
valleys. Steep hills rising to a height of 1,500 feet above the floor
line the narrow valley which ascends gradually southward to the Cat-
skill Mountains. Thrifty Dutch settlers were attracted to the fertile
bottomlands, and the Schoharie, like the Susquehanna, was the scene
of a bitter struggle for possession between the red man and the
white.

Southwest of the bold scarp of the Helderberg Mountains lies the
little village of Berne, underlain by black shales of the lower Hamil-
ton, and still farther southward at the base of the Catskills is Dur-
ham, surrounded by red shales and sandstones, subjects of our special
investigation.

13
14 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Fic. 13.—View of Otsego Lake from the tower of the hotel in Cooperstown.
The Sleeping Lion at the end of the lake and all the hills surrounding the
lake are formed of lower Hamilton rocks. Photograph by Telfer.

Fic. 14.—Leatherstocking Falls, 2 miles north of Cooperstown. Shales and
sandstones of the lower Hamilton. Photograph by Telfer.
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1932 T5

Fic. 15.—View of Schoharie Valley, looking north toward North Blenheim,
from a point about 1 mile north of Mine Kill.

tat Se ea
= 4 ea

Fic. 16—Quarry in Stevens Mountain, showing character of Devonian
sandstone. From this quarry came most of the rock in Schoharie Reservoir
dam.

Fic. 17—Devasego Falls, Devonian sandstones.
16 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Stratigraphy is the study of the superposition of sedimentary rocks
and their contained organisms. Not less important to the modern
geologist than the sequence of rock layers is the interpretation of
sedimentary environments and paleo-ecology as indicated by the na-
ture of the rocks. Thick-shelled clams and brachiopods in ripple-
marked, often cross-bedded sands indicate a near-shore zone; plant
fragments, tree stumps, and fresh-water clams indicate land environ-
ments—deposits in rivers or estuaries. From Lake Erie eastward
the Hamilton sediments are those of a shallow sea, and from Unadilla
Valley eastward the character of the faunas and sediments alike indi-
cate close proximity to an ancient shore. Schoharie Valley is clearly
the shore region of the ancient Devonian sea. Here continental beds
alternate with strata laid in marine water. Variable east-west develop-
ments of the beds indicate an oscillating shore. In Schoharie Valley
the lower and middle Hamilton rocks are of the two types, continental
and marine, but the upper Hamilton is mostly continental, containing
sizeable tree stumps in their original position of growth. East of
Schoharie Valley the upper two-thirds of the Hamilton is composed
nearly completely of red rocks, the origin of which is a moot question.

In order to ascertain the time of deposition of the red beds it was
necessary to find fossils in them whose age could be definitely de-
termined. Fortunate was the writer to be able to trace a single marine
layer of the upper Hamilton from Susquehanna Valley to Durham,
into the midst of the red beds. Heretofore all red beds in eastern New
York were regarded as Upper Devonian in age, but the results of the
present studies prove that some 2,000 feet, at least, of the red beds of
the Catskill Mountains belong to the time of Hamilton deposition.

The geography and stratigraphy of the Hamilton rocks of eastern
New York having been briefly described, the ancient conditions can be
pretty safely restored. In Devonian days the site of Schoharie Valley
was the shore region of the Devonian sea. Southeast of Schoharie
were forests of huge and peculiar types of ferns, and off to the west
of the site of the valley was the sea with its hordes of strange shelled
invertebrates. So far as known huge and bizarre types of fishes were
the only vertebrate life of the waters, and majestic crustaceans of
scorpionlike form were the rulers of forest and river.

The stratigrapher, using fossils as the key to his vertical and geo-
graphic position in the rocks, is keenly interested in discovering a
maximum number of specimens. These Devonian field studies
brought to the United States National Museum a rich supply of
specimens, many new to our collections and some new to science.
MINERAL COLLECTING IN THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN
SPACES

By E. P. HENDERSON
Assistant Curator, Division of Physical and Chemical Geology,
U. S. National Museum

The field-work of 1932 was in cooperation with the department of
geology of Harvard University and under the auspices of the Canfield
Fund. In June, accompanied by F. A. Gonyer representing Harvard,
I left Washington by automobile for the Rocky Mountain States.
More than 10,000 miles of territory was covered, and the list of
minerals collected or searched for rivals the index of a textbook on
mineralogy.

The first collecting was in the dolomite quarries at Clay Center in
northern Ohio, where crystals of celestite and fluorite are found filling
cavities in the dolomite. The second stop was at Keokuk, Iowa, a dis-
trict widely known for the quartz geodes found in the nearby clay
beds. A geode is a rock with a hollow center partly filled with crys-
tals, sometimes several different minerals, and it is difficult to under-
stand how these different elements passed through the impervious
siliceous shell covering. After a few hours of excavating in the clay
two large and several small geodes were unearthed, but unfortunately
these were damaged in opening them. However, William M. Thomas,
a local collecter of geodes, kindly donated his largest geode to the
National Museum, a specimen containing a cavity 6 inches in diameter
and 18 inches deep completely lined with quartz crystals.

Our next collecting was at Lead, near the northern edge of the
Black Hills of South Dakota, where is located the Homestake mine,
the largest gold mine in the United States. Hundreds of individuals
work along the nearby rivers in an effort to recover the gold which
nature buried among the gravels or concealed by rock slides.

Turning west, we pushed on to Butte, Mont., named from the
prominent hill, geologically known as a butte, on which it is located.
This hill, known as the richest hill in the world, produces each year
from within a mining area of about 5 miles ¢normous tonnages of
copper, lead, and zinc, besides large quantities of silver and gold.
Butte is the home of the Anaconda Copper Co., and the success of my
collecting at this place was largely due to the generous cooperation
of the company officials. Many mineral specimens were obtained, as
well as several large pieces of ore for the exhibit of applied geology.

17
INSTITUTION

SMITHSONIAN

18

‘Ye ‘suey sewoyy oy} ul ureyunoyy zedo,[—eI ‘DI

ime)

XPLORATIONS,

4

SMITHSONIAN

‘uRr ‘uoAuey ddAIG— OI
at d

20 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

The next important district visited was Salt Lake City, Utah, where
a week was spent in visiting the nearby mining camps such as Park
City and Bingham Canyon.

In the Thomas Range, south of the Great Salt Lake Desert, is
Topaz Mountain, made up of a volcanic rock, a rhyolite, in which
small crystals of topaz are found in more or less abundance. This
mountain rises rather abruptly about 2,000 feet above the desert
valley, and it is only with great difficulty that its surface can be ex-
plored. Most of the exposed surface had to be examined before a
site could be selected which looked promising as a source of worth-
while topaz specimens.

On the way to Topaz Mountain a stop was made at Joy, a town
located in the Thomas Range. This “town” now contains but one
house, with only one permanent resident; yet two score years ago,
Joy was a flourishing mining camp. Today its sole inhabitant is known
throughout the surrounding country as Aunt May or the Mayoress
of Joy. Aunt May has chosen to spend the evening of her life among
those hills which she loves and whose secrets she knows.

Among other important localities visited were the lodestone dykes
near Cedar City, Utah, the vanadium and carnotite districts located
along the Utah-Colorado State line, and the celebrated mining dis-
tricts of Leadville, Alma, Breckenridge, and Cripple Creek, Colo.

Accompanied by H. H. Nininger, of Denver, and a guide, I spent
about three weeks in the Uinta Mountains in a vain search for a
huge meteorite reported as seen to fall about 20 years ago. Knowing
the extreme variation of the weather at altitudes of over 11,000 feet,
one is likely to get a false conception of the rate of weathering and
rock movement. Sharp angular fragments of sandstone, the country
rock at this point, may be found in large piles, and near them smaller
broken fragments which can be fitted into their original places on
the boulder. Often tree roots have grown over the rocks or a small
tree has struggled up through them in such a manner as to prove
that no appreciable movement has taken place, and in most cases the
age of these roots and trees was between 50 and 75 years. I there-
fore concluded that the meteorite would not in 25 years be deeply
buried by either the soil or rock movements. In the few places where
there was an accumulation of clay, the presence of closely spaced
roots, 50 years old and older, precluded any possibility that a large
meteorite could be concealed beneath.

Space does not permit listing all the other localities visited nor
acknowledging the many courtesies extended to me as an official
representative of the Institution, but it was most gratifying to experi-
ence such widespread cooperation.
EXPLORATIONS FOR ROCKS AND MINERALS IN THE
EASLERN STATES

By JAMES H. BENN
Junior Scientific Aid, Department of Geology, U. S. National Museum

During the past year the writer made various short field trips in
search of rock and mineral specimens intended mainly for the mineral-
ogical and geological exhibition series of the National Museum. In
November, 1931, a short trip was made to the Seaboard Feldspar
Mine, near Moneta, Nelson County, Va., to secure an unusually large
orthoclase crystal reported by Dr. W. T. Schaller, Associate in Min-
eralogy in the Museum, and presented by the mining company. This
large crystal of feldspar, weighing approximately 800 pounds and
measuring about 2 feet high and 3 feet long, is now on exhibition in
the National Museum.

Accompanied by Dr. W. F. Foshag, the writer later made two
trips to the old Rutherford mica mine at Amelia Courthouse, Va. The
main shaft descends vertically for about 100 feet, and then by tunnels
and other shafts one descends to 180 feet, the deepest point in the
mine, where the pegmatite is free from the impurities and stains of
the weathered portion higher up. The sparkle of clean sheets of mus-
covite ranging in size from a few inches to over a foot in width, the
snowy whiteness of platy albite crystals, and the deep green color of
amazonstone greet the eye whichever way one turns the torchlight.
Among the minerals collected at this locality were an extraordinarily
large crystal of the rare mineral manganotantalite, several extra large
microlites, a superfine group of albite crystals, and a large mass of
gem quality amazonstone.

In June, 1932, a reconnaissance was made of the mineral localities
in southern New York and New Jersey, with the result that much fine
material was secured for the collections. In New York the most out-
standing localities visited were Ellenville and Forest of Dean. Many
years ago the copper-lead mines at Ellenville were prolific producers
of exceptionally fine quartz crystals and rare mineral species, but
they have been abandoned for 20 years. However, over a hundred
samples of small quartz groups were collected. The Fort Montgomery
iron mine at Forest of Dean has been in operation for the past 175
years and has an inclined shaft now well over a mile in length. A
series of large pieces illustrating the geology of the ore deposit was

21
to
iS)

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

=

Fic. 20.—Workings of the old mines at Ellenville, N. Y. The mine descends
into a natural rift in the tilted country rock.

Fic. 21.—A large feldspar crystal from Moneta, Va.
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1932

%

\
|
;

a ements er i.

Fic. 22—View of the interior of the cave at
Mount Etna near Beaver Creek, Md.

Fic. 23.—Stalagmitic growth showing brainlike con-
volutions from cave at Mount [tna,

Creek, Md.

near Beaver
24. SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

obtained for exhibition in the hall of economic geology, as well as
hand specimens of plagioclase, magnetite, and other associated
minerals.

At the celebrated zinc mines at Franklin Furnace, N. J., a collec-
tion was made of various kinds of fluorescent minerals for use in an
exhibit now under preparation in the Museum. The writer had the
kind permission of the New Jersey Zine Company not only to collect
the material but also to use the company’s ultra-violet ray ares, which
enabled him to select only those minerals of the highest and richest
fluorescence. Many specimens show two varieties of fluorescent min-
erals in the same sample and display more than ordinary beauty under
the ultra-violet light. From lush green the colors change with a vel-
vety softness through yellow, pink, red, and brown. Several of the
species are phosphorescent as well as fluorescent and glow like living
coals of fire even after the light has been turned off.

In October, 1932, the writer experienced the thrill of being the first
to investigate a cave which had just recently been discovered at Mount
Etna, near Beaver Creek, Md. From the opening on the side of a hill
one descends by a short but strenuous journey into a large rotunda
with a dome some 20 feet high. In the middle of the dome hangs an
elaborate and massive stalactitic growth resembling a huge ornate
chandelier. Flanking this on either side hang curtainlike growths
which add charm to the whole setting. Three main passageways. lead
off into the darkness, two of which leave the rotunda almost side by
side. These twin corridors are guarded by man-sized stalagmites re-
sembling ghosts with capes drawn to shield themselves from light in
this abyss of eternal darkness. Along the walls are row on row of
stalagmites, almost, it seems, standing at attention while the proces-
sion passes. From the ceiling hang stalactites of innumerable sizes and
forms. The descent becomes steeper and progress becomes more diffi-
cult, for the passageway has widened but the floor has become a for-
est of stalagmites of all sizes. The fore part of the cavern was strik-
ing, but this portion is splendid. Gleaming white stalactites covered
with drusy crystals of calcite hang among growths of rich brown
and yellow. Pillars, towers, fairy grottoes, steeples, castles, and polar
scenes are there for the lively imagination. Deposits of mushroom
growths and sparkling calcite enchant the eye. The passage is nar-
row but long, and every foot of the way is packed with something
new. Most curious of all are stalagmitic growths on the floor with con-
volutions that resemble those of a human brain.

Permission was granted by the owner to take out a grotto at some
future date for exhibition in the National Museum.
PIPED -\VWO RK IN PUERTO: RICO

BwaiGER RIM S) MITMBR: TR:
Curator, Division of Mammals, U. S. National Museum

In the caves of Puerto Rico, as in those of the other large Antillean
Islands, bones have been found that prove the existence of an ancient
fauna of land mammals that has recently become nearly or quite
extinct. One member of this ancient fauna still exists in Jamaica
(the “coney,” Geocapromys), two are known in Hispaniola (the
“hutia,” Plagiodontia, and the “ almiqui,’ Solenodon) and five in
Cuba (four kinds of hutia and an almiqui). Others once lived on each
of the islands, and some of these now extinct animals were still being
eaten by the Indians with whom the first Spanish explorers came in
contact. On Hispaniola, the island nearest to Puerto Rico, at least four
different kinds are represented by bones found in heaps of refuse that
mark the sites of the Indian villages. One of these same creatures,
a hutia, has been found in the refuse heaps and in the caves of
Puerto Rico. Wishing to know whether any of the other members of
the old fauna continued to exist until the time when, the Indians made
their settlements I visited Puerto Rico during March and April, 1932.

I examined Indian village sites in San Juan City, near Cayey, near
San German, and on Maguey Island off Parguera. These yielded many
bones, as well as many Indian artifacts of pottery, stone, and shell.
None of this material has yet been critically studied.

In the districts east of San Juan and south and southwest of Are-
cibo I examined many caves, but without important results. During
the past decade most of the caves that are convenient of access have
had their floor earth systematically removed by the peasant land-
owners for use as fertilizer on fields and gardens. Such bones as may
have once existed have mostly disappeared with the earth.

While at San German I made a small collection of samples of the
native woods, under the friendly guidance of Dr. N. L. Britton, who
made himself responsible for the identification of the trees from which
the specimens were taken.

Reptiles and batrachians were collected as opportunity offered.
Among the frogs that I became acquainted with is a member of the
treefrog group that Maj. Chapman Grant has recently described under
the name of Eleutherodactylus cooki. This animal is conspicuous

2

U1
20 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Fic. 24——A roadside ‘* Tormentera” for shelter during the deadly
Puerto Rican hurricanes.

J
% a fa €

7

MUERTES POR
ACCIDENTES
EN ESTE SITIO

Fic. 26.—View among the mountains south of Arecibo.
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1932

2 27

I'1G. 27—North side of Pandura Mountain. The light spots are loose
masses of decomposing granite.

Fic. 28.

Entrance to a “ guajon”-inhabited cavity on Pandura Mountain.

Fig. 20.

Even when safely bottled the mysterious “ guajones’” are
objects of dread.
28 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

among the frogs of Puerto Rico because of its limited range and the
unusual nature of its habitat. It has been found nowhere but on
Pandura Mountain (fig. 27), between Maunabo and Yabucoa. Here
it inhabits the cavities among the huge masses of decomposed granite
with which the steep sides of the mountain are strewn. Listening at
the crevices between these rocks (fig. 28) one may hear the soft,
musical song of the frogs coming from the cavities below. The song
is a series Of about a dozen short, rapidly repeated notes that rise
vaguely by excessively small intervals. The effect is strange enough
when heard from the surface, but it becomes even more strange after
one has clambered down into the irregular and dangerous openings,
which prove to be much larger and more cavernous than the surface
appearance with its dense and deceptive covering of vegetation would
lead one to expect. With flashlights the frogs are easily found and
caught as they crawl slowly over the damp but not slippery surface of
the granite.

To the natives, who know them as
objects of dread. One man said they were about a foot long and armed
with frightful teeth. Another assured me that anyone who saw a
guajon would die afterward. No offer of money would induce the boys
or men to go into the cavities in search of them. That some of this
fear extends to the dead animals safe in a collecting bottle seems to

oe

guajones,” these frogs are

be shown by the group depicted in Figure 29.
ZOOLOGICAL COLLECTING IN SIAM IN 1931 AND: 1932 *

By HUGH M. SMITH
Adviser and Expert in Fisheries to His Siamese Majesty's Government, and
Associate in Zoology, U. S. National Museum

As in previous years, the writer has taken every opportunity to ob-
tain zoological material for the National Museum. Early in 1931,
collecting was under way at Tha Chang (Elephant Crossing) and
Kao Lem (Sharp Mount), in a wild and rugged mountainous region
northeast of Bangkok abounding in large game such as deer, gaur,
banting, elephants, and tigers. During January and February collec-
tions were made at Bukit and Yala in Patani, the most southern
Siamese province. The bird life here is strongly Malayan. In April
a trip was made to a section of the Pran River accessible from Hua
Hin, the celebrated government-owned seaside resort, and a fair col-
lection of birds and small mammals was obtained.

In April and May a visit was made to a wild mountain region lying
northeast of Chiengmai in northern Siam. The objective was a moun-
tain mass locally known as Doi Nangka. On the top of the highest
peak were observed gibbons, langurs, barking deer, serow, seladang,
several species of squirrels including a giant form, bamboo rats, porcu-
pines, black bears, and wild boars. Among the birds were a large horn-
bill with reddish-yellow belly, a giant white-bellied hornbill, a large
dull-colored pheasant, a silver pheasant, and a tree partridge.

Visits were made to the coastal region comprising southeastern
Siam, and in August and September a week was spent on Koh Samet,
a forest-clad, hilly island, about 6.5 kilometers long, near the mainland.
In October the forested region east of Sriracha, southeastern Siam
was visited, and collections were made at Hoophon (High Valley)
and Nong Yang (Duipterocarp Lake) about 50 kilometers inland.

Koh Samui and Koh Pa-ngan are the largest members of a nu-
merous archipelago lying off the western shore of the Gulf of Siam.
Collections of land animals were made there in July and August. The
principal mammals are langurs, sambars and barking deer, wild boars,
squirrels, and palm civets. Conspicuous birds are hornbills, jungle
fowl, and imperial pigeons.

In late September and early October collections were made in the
upper valley of the Tapi River, at Tha Lo, west of Bandon, Peninsu-

,

* Doctor Smith’s account of his field-work in 1931 was received too late for
inclusion in the exploration pamphlet for that year; it is therefore combined
with his account for 1932.—Eb.
TION

INSTITU

SMITHSONIAN

*syeod Sul[les [fetus UO podlttes Ud}{O SI pue SpurmM

JOAO JUSNYUT 9sloJoxa 0} posoddns st 7]

“AOMUOW PUIM ,

“

se asalueIG oY} OF UMOUY St (SUpDAPIpAD} SNGIIYIN A )

d1nyeotd snown

2)

SIL

‘SIIO] MOS dATZdeD WIE ‘DIY

‘

‘UISRG SUOMO|Y “WHOUS poyUapul AT]BUIOU
B SUIMOYS YS prlouridAd & YIM UeUIoYysy Oe [—OEF “DIY

SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1932 31

Fic. 32——Karens, Northern Siam. These people, whose position among the
races of southern Asia has been a puzzle to ethnologists, live in isolated vil-
lages in mountain districts; in Siam they number 60,000. They are animists
and sacrifice fowls and other domestic animals to propitiate evil spirits.

oe

Fic. 33.—Collecting fishes in a mountain stream in Northern Siam, 1032.

rere

A scare cord is combined with a cast net.
32 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

lar Siam. This is a big game region, and elephants, tigers, leopards,
and seladangs abound. Early in December another visit was made to
the mountainous district on the eastern railway, with Hin Lap (Whet
Stone) as headquarters. Birds were numerous, and the collection in-
cluded fire-back pheasants, tree partridges, broadbills, bulbuls, babblers,
flycatchers, orioles, bee-eaters, and rock-thrushes. The last week of
the year was spent at Koh Sichang, an island off the eastern mainland
near the head of the Gulf of Siam.

Early in 1932 general collections were made in mountainous dis-
tricts of northern Siam—Doi Sutep, Doi Chiengdaro, valley of the
Mekhan southwest of Doi Sutep, and Khuntan Range. [Lao men,
women, and children brought in many live reptiles, mollusks, insects,
tarantulas and other spiders, scorpions, and other animals. At the
camp of the Mekhan, peculiar mountain-stream fishes in large variety
were obtained. A striking feature of this camp was the great abun-
dance of “ daddy longlegs’”’ (Phalangidae), which became active at
dusk and literally covered the river bank. As a person walked among
them the entire land surface seemed to be in motion ; when they moved
to the dried leaves of the adjoining hillside they made a noise like
falling rain drops. Their legs were 9.5 centimeters long.

One day, while the National Museum’s collector was staiking birds
in the Khuntan Mountains, a strange European appeared in the jungle
and showed interest in the collector’s activities. The visitor proved to
be Crown Prince Leopold of Belgium, at whose request the collector
was detailed to accompany the Prince and assist in making natural
history collections in the Philippines, Celebes, Bali, and Borneo.

Visits were made to sections of eastern and southeastern Siam, and
in October a collecting trip up the Pasak River was undertaken for
the first time. The Pasak, a long, tortuous stream marking the boun-
dary between central Siam and the eastern plateau, carries a large
volume of water which at Dha Luang is dammed and diverted for
irrigation purposes into the rice-growing district of Rangsit. Stretch-
ing eastward from the Pasak is a vast primeval-forest jungle abound-
ing in elephants, tigers, leopards, bears, deer, and several species of
buffaloes. The passage up and down the river was made in a cargo
boat towed by a launch, and stops were made at numerous places.
Some idea of the abundance of animals in the Pasak district may be
gained from the fact that in a normal year there are handled at
Gengkoi 3,000 skins of the hog deer, 10,000 skins of the barking
deer, and 200 to 300 skins of the gaur and the banting.

In the last months of the year collections were made in western
Siam at the Sam Roi Yot (Three Hundred Peaks), and in the moun-
tain-forest jungle of the northwestern corner of Siam.
ERUINGUNGSRETES EN THE WEST

By Ma ALD RICE
Associate Curator, Division of Insects, U. S. National Musewm

IXvery year witnesses the discovery and publication of numerous
new species of flies from the United States, especially from the region
west of the Rockies. It was to keep up with the march of discovery
and obtain some of the as yet unknown new species that I spent nearly
10 weeks on a western trip in 1932, from June 4 to August 13.

There are so many possibilities in a trip of this kind that one can
only string together those collecting grounds within reach of a round-
trip railroad ticket, unless he goes in his own automobile. It was de-
cided that more ground could be covered in the time permitted by
using the railroad, as the San Diego region, entirely off the path of
my usual trips, seemed important enough to be included, and this
lengthened the journey materially.

The first stop for collecting was made in eastern South Dakota. I
had collected here in 1888 to 1892, and had found some species so rare
that they have not been rediscovered since. I hoped I might have the
good fortune to collect a few of them or at least might find them in
the collections of the State College, which have grown greatly in
recent years. In this hope I was disappointed, but I collected a fair
number of insects of value to the National Museum. The next stop,
a brief one, was at Spokane, including a side trip to Coeur d’Alene
Lake, in Idaho. Then for a few days I made my headquarters at
Clarkston, Wash., and Moscow, Idaho, while making automobile trips
over a considerable radius—to southern Asotin County, Wash., in one
direction, and Clarkia, Idaho, in the white pine country, in the other.

Mount Hood, Oreg., was the next stop. Cloud Cap Inn, at 6,000
feet, the terminus of an excellent auto road from the city of Hood
River, was visited, but proved too high and cold for the early part of
the season. Coming back to Homestead Inn, at 4,000 feet, I remained
and collected with success for a few days. I was indebted to the Hood
River entomologist, Leroy Childs, for transportation, and when I was
ready to move on, he took me to Mount Hood Meadows, on the east
side of the mountain. Here again the altitude was too high for the
time of year, although a few good things were obtained. A few hours
at the shore of the Columbia River gave some interesting comparisons
with the insects obtained in the higher altitudes. Continuing to Port-

33
34. SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

ig Stone Lake, near Big Stone City, S. Dak.

Fic. 34.—I

SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1932 3

Ct

Fic. 37.—Roadside near Smith River, Calif., on the Redwood Highway.
A redwood stump behind the car.
36 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

land, I visited the western slope of Mount Hood at 1,500 feet, in heavy
fir forest on Sandy River.

The next collecting was done at the beach of the Pacific near Smith
River, close to the Oregon Line, just at the edge of the famous red-
wood country. Two years before, | had found here the celebrated
rare fly with mandibles, or at least an imitation of mandibles. My
stock of these remarkable flies had become depleted through dona-
tions made by the Museum to other institutions, and I sought a new
supply. In the course of a few days I was able to get about 40 speci-
mens, and to discover that the fly occurs at only one small place on
the California beach, as far as known. The narrowness of these
limits was not suspected on my former visit.

Insects of the Pacific seacoast usually extend for hundreds of
miles along the shore, several being known from Alaska to or nearly
to San Francisco. Observations on the flies of the coast are none too
plentiful as yet, and I was glad to be able to compare the flies at Smith
River with species I had obtained along the coast farther north up
to Seward, Alaska, in earlier years, as well as with collections made
southward as far as Long Beach. This year it was found feasible to
visit San Diego also for several days, and to collect at Laguna on the
way down. This gave us a better representation from the California
seashore than we had before. A delightful 80-mile trip into the in-
terior brought me to Warner’s Hot Springs. The totally different in-
terior climate naturally meant different flies, so the day’s collecting
was one of the best of the whole season.

While in Los Angeles I ascended Mount Lowe to the summit but
was disappointed in the results, it being too late and too dry up there
for many flies.

The trip covered a more diversified field than any previous single
summer in my experience. As usual, it was not possible to be at each
place at the best time of year for collecting; sometimes I was too
early and sometimes too late. But on the whole a valuable collection
was obtained, the study of which will not be completed for some time.
COMME TINGZERASSES, ING TENNESSEE, KENTUCIY
NID YOWe AIAN

By J. R. SWALLEN
Section of Grasses, U. S. National Museum

As Kentucky and Tennessee were less adequately represented than
the other States in the grass herbarium of the United States National
Museum, I spent the month of June, 1932, collecting and studying
the grasses in these two States. The localities visited were Camden,
Jackson, Millington, Dyersburg, and Reelfoot Lake in Tennessee, and
Mayfield, Morganfield, Leitchfield, and Central City in Kentucky, all
in the central or western parts. Species of the genus Panicum are
most numerous at that time of the year, and are commonly found in
the sandy hardwood forests.

On July 1, I sailed from New Orleans for Yucatan to collect grasses
and grass rusts in cooperation with the University of Michigan and
the Carnegie Institution of Washington. I was accompanied most of
the time by Dr. William C. Steere of the department of botany
of the University of Michigan. The Yucatan flora is known chiefly
from the collections of Doctor Gaumer and Doctor Millspaugh and
from the early collections of Doctor Schott, none of whom paid
special attention to the grasses, so that the opportunity for adding to
the known grass flora seemed very promising. The results came up
to expectations, as the specimens collected record more than a 50
per cent increase in the number of grasses previously known from
Yucatan. As the time was limited to little more than six weeks, only
a few representative localities could be investigated. It is reasonable to
believe that further exploration would add still other grasses, espe-
cially in the states of Quintana Roo and Campeche.

The state of Yucatan is an almost level plain, unbroken except for
a range of low hills near the southern boundary extending from near
Muna almost to Peto. Beyond this range to the south can be seen a
similar range in the distance. It is said that there are four of these,
each succeeding one to the south being higher. In Quintana Roo and
Campeche there are other low hills running roughly parallel to the
east and west coast lines.

Nearly all the peninsula except that which is or has been under
cultivation is covered with a very dense growth of small trees. To-
ward the south, however, in the states of Quintana Roo and Campeche,
where there is more moisture, the growth becomes larger and a little

37
38 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Fie. 38—Reelfoot Lake, Tenn. In 1811 a severe earthquake occurred here
which resulted in the sinking of the lowland forest. The charred stumps, left
from the fire that followed, everywhere rise above the surface of the water.

Fig. 39—A view looking south from the top of the “ Castle” at the ruins
of Uxmal. The large mound is an ancient ruin. The two small fields are
“muilpas’’ or cornfields.
Fic. 40—Ruins of Tulum near the village of Tancah on the east coast
in Quintana Roo.

Fic. 41.—A view along the east coast from the top of the ruins of Tulum.
The wall around the ancient town is seen in the center of the picture. The
ridge along the coast is covered with a dense growth of palms.

Fic. 42.—A street in the village of Tancah.
4o SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

more open. In such a region grasses are not found in such great abun-
dance, since only a few grow under these conditions. The most com-
mon grass 1s /chnanthus lanceolatus Scribn. & Smith, which occurs
nearly everywhere and is in some places the only grass to be found.
In the very dense brush toward the central part of Cozumel Island
even this is wanting—there is almost no ground covering of any
kind. As if to make up for this lack, the trees are covered with lichens,
liverworts, and mosses. Most of the grasses are therefore to be found
along the roads and trails, in cultivated ground, in the few open
places in the brush, and along the coast.

Henequin and corn are the principal products of Yucatan. The
former is grown on large plantations in the western part of the state.
The fiber is the chief export and largest source of income. In contrast
to the henequin plantations are the “ milpas ” or cornfields of the Maya
people. These are located far from villages and commonly traveled
trails to avoid the ravages of live stock. The method of cultivation is
very simple. The brush is first cut down and allowed to dry. Toward
the end of the dry season it is fired and the ashes used for fertilizer.
At the beginning of the wet season the corn is planted in small holes
made with a stick. Nothing else is done except to cut the weeds off
once during the season. In many places no other cultivation would be
possible as the soil forms only a thin layer over the rocks. What soil
there is, however, is of good quality and the corn grows very well.
Beans are usually planted with the corn.

The flame tree or flamboyant, Delonix regia ( Boj.) Raf. (Poinci-
ana regia), early introduced into the American Tropics from Mada-
gascar, is found in many of the towns and villages. Its scarlet or
flame-colored flowers in large clusters are very striking.

A small native tree frequently found is Byrsonima crassifolia (L.)
DC., the fruits of which are very much relished by the Mayas. They
have a very pungent odor and were not at all to my liking, tasting to
me very much like sour milk.

The insects which one usually expects to find in the Tropics were
very few. For the most part mosquito nets were not necessary and
were seldom used at night. The one exception was at Tancah, where
numerous tiny insects continually flew around our faces but did not
cause very much discomfort.

Collections were made at Chichen Itza, Tizimin, Uxmal, Muna,
Peto, and Progreso in the state of Yucatan, and at Lake Chichen-
canab, called Chancabnab by the natives, Cozumel Island, and Tancah
in the state of Quintana Roo. A collection of more than 2,000 speci-
mens was made on the two trips.
AN THR @POROGICAL EXPEORATIONS ON KODIAK
[SEAN ALASKA

By ALES HRDLICKA
Curator of Physical Anthropology, U. S. National Museum

Anthropological and archeological research on Kodiak Island,
Alaska, was carried on by the writer throughout the summer of 1932.
The work consisted in excavations at one important site in Uyak Bay ;
in trial excavations at Chief’s Point and other sites; in an archeo-
logical survey of the whole island; and in securing measurements and
photographs of the few remaining fullbloods on the island.

The expedition received substantial aid from the Alaska Packers
Association and their officials and men at the Larsen Bay Cannery ;
from the U. S. Bureau of Fisheries ; from the officers and airplane men
of the U. S. S. Gannet, Alaska Survey Expedition ; and from the off-
cials and captains of the Pacific Steamship Co.—all of which is hereby
gratefully acknowledged. Especial thanks are due also to the many
individuals, who cannot be listed in this brief article, all of whom
rendered valuable assistance. Through the generosity of Mrs. Charles
D. Walcott the expedition obtained a small boat with an outboard
motor, which proved very valuable.

The excavation at the Uyak Bay site progressed so substantially
that approximately one fifth of the area covered by the main deposits
and estimated at two acres has been cleared. The accumulations in
the main part reach from 8 to 15 feet in depth, ranging mostly between
g and 12 feet. Excavation of these deposits was carried on throughout
to the glacial bed-ground, consisting of greenish glacial sand, gravel,
and Loulders. Stone and bone implements were found at all levels and
in all the deposits.

Skeletal remains occur mostly in three ill-segregated strata, the
low or deep, the intermediary, and the upper or superficial. The deep
remains are partly disseminated individual bones, some broken for
the marrow and a few showing localized marks of fire; and partly
regular individual burials. In a few instances the bones of only a
portion of the body were interred, but mostly there were the com-
plete skeletons. Some burials were more than 12 feet in depth, and
most of the deepest were laid in hollows, up to 2 feet deep, made in
the glacial bed pan. All were in the contracted position and the skull
lay generally on its side. Near them were buried as a rule some cul-

tural articles, such as bone points, slate knives, or a lamp or two. Re-
peatedly in these and also in the intermediate layers, two lamps, differ-

AI
TION

INSP

SMITITSONIAN

‘punosrsyoRq 2y}
ul ‘sdoyrenDpeay Ano “Arouue) stoyoeq eBYse[Y ey] ‘TOI Gsnsny ‘suoneavoxs pue yurod smo jo MatA [eLay—Eeth m2) |

43

XPLORATIONS, 1932

B

SMITHSONIAN

‘ZEOL Ul ‘YYSII dy} UO 7eY}
:I1€61 Ul PIIIAODSIP SEM Jo] 9Y} UO 9UO dy, “Ysiy sayour € Yoo ‘pur]sy YRipoyy wosay speszsod AtOAL OMT —FPF “OI

44. SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

ing in size and shape, were found together, suggesting a “ male” and
ay female?

The principal facts learned in the excavations of the season may be
summarized as follows:

Up to the advent of the white man and for many centuries previously
Kodiak Island must have been one of the largest, if not the largest,
centers of the native populations of Alaska. There is definite evidence
of two distinct populations on the island, an earlier one of long dura-
tion, and a later one of apparently not more than the last two or three
centuries. The earlier and the later people were of similar moderate
to medium stature, but differed much in the shape of head. Both
types—the earlier with oblong, the later with rounded heads—although
somewhat Eskimoid, approach also the Indian. There was noted but
little if any mixture of the two types, and there appear to be no sur-
vivors of the earlier type on the island.

The newer people, though introducing some new cultural elements,
had evidently taken over to a large extent the culture and perhaps
even many of the actual tools of the older stock. The old culture was
richer than and artistically superior to that of the late. It is devoid of
pottery. Pottery is also absent in the upper, later, deposits, except in
the southwestern part of the island, where somewhat crude large clay
jars were fairly common. Contacts of the upper people with those of
the Alaska Peninsula and those of Cooks Inlet are indicated by some
of the finds and are otherwise corroborated.

Cannibalism, according to many indications, was practiced ex-
tensively by the earlier people. Adults of both sexes and many children
were consumed. Evidences of death by violence are common.

The earlier population vanished in an unknown manner. It may
have been through epidemics, or wholesale massacres, or emigration,
or all these combined. So far, evidence is lacking on this point.

The survey of the coasts, first those of the extensive Uyak Bay with
its side issues and then those of the whole island, resulted in the loca-
tion of scores of old sites hitherto unknown to science and covering
from a half acre to over 30 acres of ground. A particularly interest-
ing line of old sites consists of refuges or fortresses on isolated and
almost inaccessible rocky islands. There are at least a dozen other large
sites along the coasts which show deep accumulations, are easily ap-
proachable, and offer promising chances for exploration.

The quest for surviving fullbloods resulted in the finding of nine
inales, eight of whom were measured and photographed. They all
showed the late “Aleut ’’ type and call themselves Aleut.
ARCHEOLOGICAL INVESTIGATIONS AT POINT
BARROW, ALASKA

Bye ISUEINIRAY 1B, (COIMEIUNS SY IPR
Assistant Curator, Division of Ethnology, U. S. National Museum

Since 1928 the Smithsonian Institution has been investigating pre-
historic Eskimo sites in Alaska in an attempt to unravel the archeo-
logical history of this strategic region of North America. The oldest
remains that have come to light in northern Alaska belong to the Old
Bering Sea culture, a highly developed Eskimo culture centering
around Bering Strait and extending eastward to Point Barrow and
westward into northeastern Siberia. On St. Lawrence Island it was
found to have undergone marked changes probably a thousand years
ago and to have developed into a simplified stage called the Punuk.*

The prehistoric Thule culture of northern Canada and Greenland,
which apparently had its origin in Alaska, seems to be more closely
related to the Punuk stage and even to modern Alaskan culture than
to the earlier Old Bering Sea culture. But in order to obtain definite
evidence it was necessary to work at an Alaskan site where Thule
material occurred more than sporadically. A favorable place was Point
Barrow, which represents the most easterly extent of the Old Bering
Sea culture and also the most westerly point at which the Thule culture
existed as a type. The Eskimos and other collectors have been exca-
vating at the old sites around Barrow for a number of years, with the
result that large collections of artifacts have been amassed. But since
the work had not been done systematically, the cultural differences and
relative ages of the various sites were not clearly known.

In 1931 James A. Ford was detailed to conduct archeological work
in the vicinity of Barrow, but being unable to arrive before the ground
froze he received permission to winter there in order to start work
early the following spring.” Beginning early in June, Mr. Ford exca-
vated until late September, when he left on the U. S. S. North Star.

The oldest and most important of the old sites was Birnirk. Here
as around Bering Strait the harpoon head was found to have passed

* Archeological investigations in northern Alaska. Explorations and Field-
work of the Smithsonian Institution in 1931, pp. 103-112, 1032.

* The Institution is indebted to the U. S. Coast Guard, the Bureau of Indian
Affairs, and Capt. G. D. Pederson of the schooner Patterson for transportation
furnished Mr. Ford to and from Barrow, and also to those at Barrow, par-
ticularly C. W. Brower, Dr. H. W. Greist, and Messrs. Morgan, Hopson, and
Trendle for many courtesies.

45
40 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Fic. 45.—Harpoon heads from old Eskimo sites around Barrow; a, ¢e,f, g,
Birnirk; b,c, d, Utkiavik; h, Point Belcher.

cornet
é
"4 \

Fic. 46.—Eskimos cutting up bowhead whale killed at Point Barrow.
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1932 47

eR

a6

-. ———T—

Fic. 47—James A. Ford hauling whale skull from Point Barrow to Barrow.

%

Fic. 48.—Hauling whale jaw to Barrow with sled and dog team.
48 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

through a number of developmental stages and for that reason fur-
nishes the best criterion for determining the relation of one site to
another. Most of the harpoon heads from Birnirk were of bone, with
an open socket and two or more asymmetrical spurs at the base, and
a side blade of flint with an opposite barb or with two side blades and
no barb (fig. 45, @)—a type already known as the Birnirk. Other
types of heads found at Birnirk are shown in Figure 45, e, f, g. Only
one example of the Thule type 2, with two barbs, was found. How-
ever, this type (see fig. 45, b) predominated at the older part of the
more recent site of Utkiavik. Here it later developed into forms
characteristic of the period just preceding the historic as shown by
their association with metal and late types of implements (fig. 45, c, d).

In the cultural sequence here revealed—Birnirk, Thule, modern—
the Old Bering Sea culture is conspicuously absent. However, Mr.
Ford found a few examples of Old Bering Sea art in burial mounds
on the tundra back from Utkiavik. Burials similar to these were also
found at Nunavaak and are reported by natives at various points down
the coast. At Nunavaak the only sign of habitation near the mounds
was a house ruin of no great age. This, together with the fact that
the material from the burials does not correspond to that from the
existing old or later sites nearby, leads Mr. Ford to the conclusion that
the Eskimos of the Old Bering Sea period may have lived in low-
lying settlements near the mouths of streams which, with later topo-
graphical changes, became lagoons.

Mr. Ford’s excavations have furnished the basis for a cultural
chronology of the north Alaska coast which supplements that pre-
viously established for the region about Bering Strait. In the latter
region the sequence was Old Bering Sea, Punuk, and modern, with
Birnirk harpoon heads occurring sporadically early in the Punuk
stage and Thule heads beginning to appear somewhat later and be-
coming more abundant in the protohistoric period. Around Barrow the
Old Bering Sea stage appears to be lacking except in the mound
burials. Assuming it to have been the earliest there, we have next the
3irnirk, then the Thule, and then the modern. The Punuk stage, so
prominent around Bering Strait, finds no place in the Barrow se-
quence. However, from a house ruin at Point Belcher, 60 miles below
Barrow, Mr. Ford obtained some typical Punuk material, including the
harpoon head shown in figure 45, h. This house was partly beneath
the water of the lagoon; in the bank above were house ruins and refuse
piles which yielded Thule material. Here there seems to be evidence of
a direct migration of a group of Eskimos from around Bering Strait,
bringing typical Punuk culture to a region where it had not pre-

viously existed.
THE EAREY INDIAN CULTURES OF (CUBA

By HERBERT W. KRIEGER
Curator, Division of Ethnology, U. S. National Museum

In recent years the Smithsonian Institution has sponsored seven
anthropological expeditions to Santo Domingo, Jamaica, Puerto Rico,
Haiti, and Cuba, with the purpose of determining prehistoric tribal
and cultural sequence in those islands. With a view toward a more
detailed analysis of the northern and southern affiliations of early
Cuban cultures, the writer visited Cuba and the outlying Isle of Pines
during the winter of 1932. This expedition was made possible by the
joint cooperation of the Smithsonian Institution with Dr. W. L.
Abbott, whose interest in West Indian research is of long standing.

Solution of two problems was sought: First, who were the Indians
at one time occupying the littoral of the southern coast of the province
of Camaguey, the builders of those enormous kitchen refuse heaps
and shell deposits known to Cubans as caneyes? Were they the so-
called Ciboneyes described by the Spanish historian Las Casas as
simple fishermen living on the smaller islands off the Cuban coast and
subject to the recent invader from Haiti—the superior Arawak ?

Second, who were the people occupying western Cuba at the time of
its discovery by Columbus? Were they perhaps in contact with the
celebrated Maya of Yucatan Peninsula less than 100 miles distant ?
They certainly knew about the splendors of aboriginal Mexico by
hearsay 1f not through trade and intercourse, for the Spaniards gained
their first intimation of the superior mainland cultures from the lowly
Indians of northern Cuba. Or were they the selfsame Ciboneyes who,
according to the gossiping Martyr, lived in caves and roamed through
the mountains of western Cuba?

There remains yet another theory, namely, that underlying or mar-
ginal to our rather elaborate southeastern United States Indian cul-
ture is an extremely ancient lacustrine or coastal culture based pre-
dominantly on the use of shellfish. This same underlying culture might
account for the undifferentiated shell heaps and middens of the
Floridan, Bahaman, Cuban, and Haitian coasts; it is here labeled, ten-
tatively, as the Ciboney, so far as pertains to the West Indies.

The writer’s work was confined largely to a study of the caneyes of
the Cuban province of Camaguey, and to a reconnaissance of Pinar
del Rio Province and the Isle of Pines. The Isle of Pines is the
largest of the outlying keys of Cuba, from which it is separated by

49
‘soyse JO SIAR] pure ‘s}USLU
J

‘soyse o1e JNO dy} JO Y}sud] [dW pue S][Isua}zn papsesIp ‘asnjot Udy Jo Ayasyua
[[D} 94} SUIptsyXa sasAe] [RWUOZIIOY YS] sy y, ‘punour S}SISUOD “YSIY Joo} IE St YOIYM ‘punow sy “aouLAoIg Aons
Aguoqi) jo do} Yysno1ry} dsap jooy $ Yyoust[—'o$ “o1y] -eule)) Ul punouwl AsuOq!) Ul YIOM sulUULsaq— OP “ory

INSTITUTION

SMITHSONIAN

50

SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1932

Sil

Fre. 51.—A typical Cuban country home.

Fic. 52.—Types of Arawak pottery from Oriente Province, eastern Cuba.
SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

oa
Le)

shallow water, coral reefs, and keys. The island consists of two parts,
a northern and a southern section, the latter apparently uninhabited
in prehistoric times, as there are no shell middens along the coast, and
the caves bear no evidence of former Indian occupancy. Traces of
aboriginal culture or prehistoric human remains are limited to spo-
radic surface finds. The many caves explored by the writer in the Casas
and Caballo Mountains of the northern portion of the island revealed
no trace of prehistoric human occupancy.

Next was undertaken a reconnaissance of the known sites of former
Indian villages, shell heaps, and kitchen middens of the extreme
western portion of Pinar del Rio Province. Working from the village
of Guane, the writer investigated caves and former Indian village sites
in the Valle San Juan, at Cayo Redondo, and Vinales. Shell heaps and
village sites are here clearly distinguishable, in part as Ciboney and
in part as Arawak in origin. There is no evidence of other extraneous
culture stages. Clearly the Maya did not influence the culture of
western Cuba.

The scene of our investigations was next shifted to southeastern
Cuba and to the southern coast of the Province of Camaguey. Here at
El] Caney de los Muertos in the vicinity of Santa Maria de Casimba
Bay, as early as 1846, Rodriguez-Ferrer had made the first systematic
excavation in Cuba of an Indian shell midden or kitchen refuse heap.

Attention was recently called to the thirty-odd circular caneyes or
refuse mounds of southern Camaguey Province in a letter from
Leonard B. Fox, of Florida, Cuba, in which he describes the results
of an excavation by him of a “ mound about 30 feet high by roo feet
in diameter,” consisting of ‘ successive layers a foot to a foot and a
half in thickness of shells and ashes. In the layers of shells we found
several very crude utensils made of shell and stone, but no sign of
pottery.” Mr. Fox lent every assistance to the writer, at the occasion
of his visit, as did also the officials of the two neighboring sugar
centrals, Florida and Agramonte.

Much remains to be done before the non-Arawak Indian cultures
of Cuba, Haiti, Santo Domingo, Jamaica, and Puerto Rico may be
assigned their proper place in the prehistory of the Antilles. The
writer feels assured that during their comparatively brief occupancy
of Cuba, the Arawak had practically eliminated their primitive pred-
ecessors, the Ciboney. Future investigation should discover whether
the Ciboney themselves had gradually passed through several culture
stages, or whether the marked differences apparent in the widely
distributed, non-pottery-yielding non-Arawak shell middens and ref-
use heaps of Santo Domingo, Haiti, and Cuba are ascribable to early
arrivals from Florida and the Bahama Islands.
PREEUISPORIC (EAVES DWELUERS OF TEXAS
By FRANK M. SETZLER

Assistant Curator, Division of Archeology, U. S. National Musewmn

Archeological researches in the southwestern portion of Texas
centered this year in the Chisos Mountains area, 150 miles south of
Alpine, and in Sunny Glen Canyon, 8 miles west of Alpine. Trans-
portation facilities varied successively from railroad to truck, to horse,
to burro, to airplane, and back to burro. Our first objective was the
Johnson ranch, which had been suggested as field headquarters by
Maj. C. E. Brenn, of Fort Crockett, Galveston, Tex.

Eighteen miles down the Rio Grande from Castolon we drew up
before the door of Mr. and Mrs. Elmo Johnson and were received
with genuine southern hospitality. Both Mr. and Mrs. Johnson are
interested in archeology and have accumulated an interesting collec-
tion of specimens. Through their kind offices we secured an excellent
guide, Dell Dodson, and were soon in pursuit of information pertain-
ing to the primitive Indian tribes who dwelt in this region before
Cabeza de Vaca made his memorable journey across the deserts of
northern Mexico. We drove the truck over trails, creek beds, and
mesas as far as possible; then resorted to burros and when the latter
could go no further, we pushed on afoot. Our first camp was estab-
lished near the south tip of Mule Ear Peaks (fig. 53) and here two
caves were completely excavated. A third cave (fig. 54), on Wayne
Cartledge’s ranch, yielded information not found elsewhere. From
these three sites we gained an excellent cross-section of the culture
typical of the region.

The Chisos Mountains proper were first surveyed from the air, and
numerous caves were sighted along the precipitous cliffs. The ter-
ritory we covered by plane in an hour required four days to reach by
muleback. And then we were disappointed in that none of the caves
visited contained evidence of more than passing occupancy by pre-
historic Indians.

On May I, camp was moved to Sunny Glen Canyon where, with the
cooperation of V. J. Smith of Sul Ross State Teachers College, and
with the permission of the A. S. Gage estate, two other caves were
excavated. These latter disclosed the same uniform type of ma-
terial culture we had observed farther south on this and previous
expeditions.

53
54 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

oa,
gy,

Fic. 53.—Airplane view of “ Mule Ear Peaks.”

Itc. 54.—Cartledge Cave.
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1932 55

Da baht
A Ght
avy Al
aaa

Fic. 55.—Schematic drawings of various basket techniques. a, Parallel and
vertical rod foundation, yucca sewing thread; b, plain twining; c, split stitch,
single bundle foundation; d, single bundle foundation with interlocking
stitches.

Fic. 56—Basket Maker artifacts: a, grooved clubs; b, atlatl foreshaft;
c, atlatl bunt point; d, atlatl handle fragment; ¢, painted, twined woven bag
fragments; f, selvaged apocynum cloth, painted.
50 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

The five caves explored in 1932, produced an exceptionally uniform
type of cultural material. No vestige of pottery, European artifacts,
or stratification appeared in any site examined. Coiled basketry frag-
ments are predominantly of the “split stitch with a single bundle
foundation.” This is the distinctive type in the Big Bend region (fig.
55, c) but there are also three others (fig. 55, a, b, d). None of these
corresponds to the characteristic technique used by the ancient Basket
Makers of New Mexico and Arizona. The sandals of southern Texas
likewise differ from those of the Basket Makers.

Among the important artifacts found this year are grooved club
fragments (rabbit sticks?) (fig. 56, a); atlatl foreshaft (fig. 56, D),
a “bunt” point (fig. 56, c), and the proximal or hand end of an
atlatl (fig. 56, d) ; two fragments of painted, twined woven bags (fig.
56, e), and a small sample of cloth woven with apocynum fiber, sel-
vaged and complete (fig. 56, f). As similar specimens have been found
with Basket Maker burials in the San Juan region, we have here, for
the first time, evidence which may serve to indicate the relative age
and development of cur nonpottery culture in the Big Bend area. But
it should be noted in this connection that, associated with the speci-
mens above mentioned, we also found numerous arrow shafts and
foreshafts which are not a characteristic of the classic era of the
Basket Maker culture. They seem to suggest, rather, that the Texas
cave dwellers lived during a transitional stage between the Basket
Maker III and Pueblo I periods. Absence of pottery and house types
in the Big Bend region still complicates this problem of possible re-
lationship. Continuation of our studies may clarify this phase of the
prehistory of southern Texas.

Besides the above-mentioned artifacts the caves we explored con-
tained numerous metates, manos, projectile points, flint knives, painted
pebbles, and end scrapers ; yucca bags, mats, nets, and a great variety
of apocynum and lechugilla cordage ; wooden scrapers, scoops, awls,
etc. ; cane tubes containing minute seeds, corn cobs, gourd sherds, and
bone beads ; painted sticks, bones, and buckskin bags. Thus we have
an index to the arts and industries of the unknown prehistoric tribes
concerning whom we have been seeking information. Some of the
other artifacts recovered show a similarity to those found around
FE] Paso’ and the Mollie B. Knight ranch.” But most important of all,
our 1932 researches brought indications of a positive relationship be-—
tween the Big Bend area and the southwest.

1 Roberts, F. H. H., Jr., Recent archeological developments in the vicinity of
El Paso, Texas. Smithsonian Misc. Coll., vol. 81, no. 7, January, 1920.

> Setzler, F. M., A prehistoric cave in Texas. Explorations and Field-work of
the Smithsonian Institution in 1931, pp. 133-140, 1032.
SAEVAGING AN VABORIGINAL DUG-OUT CANOE,
CUMBERLAND ISLAND, GEORGIA

By FRANK M. SETZLER

Assistant Curator, Division of Archeology, U. S. National Museum

In February, 1932, the writer went to Cumberland Island, Ga., for
the purpose of examining the newly discovered remains of a dug-out
canoe thought to be of prehistoric Indian manufacture. The old craft
had been found in 1931 by C. McLendon, of Saint Marys, who de-
scribed his find to I. F. Arnow, a local historian. Mr. Arnow, recog-
nizing the importance of the dugout, reported it to Dr. J. R. Swanton
of the Bureau of American Ethnology, foremost authority on the
Indian tribes of the southeastern United States.

Cumberland Island, the winter residence of Thomas M. Carnegie, is
situated off the southern coast of Georgia just north of Fernandino,
Fla.; it is separated from the mainland by the Cumberland River, with
Saint Andrew Sound and the Satilla River on the north. The island,
about 20 miles long by 5 miles wide, has had its inherent, natural
beauty studiously preserved. The beach on the eastern side of the
island, beaten smooth and hard by the pounding surf, is generally
recognized as the finest along the eastern coast. Gulls, terns, and
sandpipers patrol the shore line, and within the deeper woods, deer and
wild turkeys, ducks, geese, and many land birds find a safe refuge on
this most hospitable island.

Mr. Carnegie personally guided us to the site of the submerged
canoe. Only one end of the dugout was visible (fig. 57); the re-
mainder lay on its keel, buried under dun-colored sand. Close on one
side a small creek has carved its way into Cumberland Sound; on
the other, alluvial deposits rise to a height of 6 feet. Undercutting of
this bank had exposed the visible portion of the canoe; salt water had
preserved it throughout the passing centuries. Because of the tides
we could work only four hours at a time. Our initial effort brought to
light half of the canoe, but it was left im sifu with enough sand about
it to resist the pressure of the returning tide. Next day this 8-foot sec-
tion, the only salvageable portion, was wholly uncovered. The re-
maining section lay broken and twisted where it had sunk into a hole,
hopelessly crushed by pressure of the sand subsequently deposited
upon it. To all appearances, the dugout had been moored by its owner

4
INSTITUTION

SMITHSONIAN

Out

inal dug

Oo
c=)

1

y of an abor
urnegie.

Cc

xposed bow which led to the discover

4

I

it

Fic.

c

M.

aph by T.

Photogr

Canoe.

etely excavated.

Salvaged portion of aboriginal canoe compl

58.

Fic.
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1932

(2)
oO

Fic. 59.—Canoe fragment removed from its resting pla

Fic. 60.—Another view of the aboriginal canoe fragment.

on
60 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

in the shelter of this small stream ; it had been abandoned or forgotten
and, in the course of time, buried by the tides.

On our second visit, a long plank was forced beneath the canoe end
(fig. 58). Bands of burlap sacking bound the frail hull to the plank
so the whole could be moved above the water level (fig. 59). When
sand and mud were washed away, the methods by which the old dug-
out had been made were at once apparent. A carefully selected pine
over 2 feet in diameter had been felled ; with fire and stone tools it had
been burned and gouged out to leave the thin shell before us. Evidence
of these alternating operations were unmistakable. There was no trace
whatsoever of steel axes or other European implements. In my mind
there is no question but that this fragment represents one of the canoes
characteristic of the Atlantic coast prior to arrival of Furopeans.

Safely above high tide, the canoe end was carefully boxed and
shipped to Washington. In an effort to preserve it after it reached
the National Museum, it was removed to the wood-treating laboratory
of the Washington Navy Yard. Here, under the supervision of
Lieut. M. E. Serat, the specimen was held for over two months under
controlled humidity and temperature. Gradually the temperature was
increased as the humidity was lowered, in the hope of drying the
spongy wood so that preservative could be successfully applied. But,
despite every attention, the rotted pine warped and split to a con-
siderable degree.

In its present condition, the canoe end measures 6 feet in length,
with a 2-foot beam; it has a depth of 18 inches. The bow is rounded
and retreating as shown in the well-known John White paintings of
Indian dug-out canoes, made in the summer of 1585 and reproduced
by Theodore DeBry in 1590."

It is quite possible that our Cumberland Island canoe was made and
used by the Timucuan Indians, who inhabited the Georgia and upper
Florida coasts during the sixteenth century. It is early historic, per-
haps pre-Spanish, in origin; even in its present, fragmentary con-
dition, it is a noteworthy reminder of the aboriginal civilizations which
once flourished throughout our southeastern States.

1 Bushnell, D. I., Jr., Virginia Mag. Hist. and Biogr., vol. 35, no. 4, pp. 419-
437, He. 6; Oct. 1027.
ETHNOLOGICAL RESEARCHES IN PANAMA AND
HA SiERN ECUADOR

By M. W. STIRLING
Chief, Bureau of American Ethnology

In September, 1931, the writer sailed as a guest of the Latin
American Expedition to South America. The first objective was
Panama, where, in company with John Verrill, the writer spent a
month among the Tule Indians of the San Blas coast. The publicity
given to the existence among them of white Indians—in reality al-
binos—has obscured the greater value of their interesting ethnology,
which has changed but little after 400 years of contact with Euro-
peans. Villages of the Tule Indians are scattered for 200 miles along
the small, low islands in the Gulf of San Blas. The houses, built with
cane walls and palm-thatched roofs, are sometimes constructed so
close together that to go through the town it 1s necessary to pass
through the houses. During their centuries of white contact, the
Tule have remained a remarkably homogeneous and independent
people. They do not welcome visits from white people and are par-
ticularly anxious that Europeans should not obtain a foothold in their
territory. Because of this conservatism, there has been little admixture
of foreign blood with these Indians.

The costumes of the Tule women are colorful and characteristic.
They fabricate blouses decorated with a peculiar variety of applique
work in many bright colors. On their heads they wear red calico
mantas which flow across the shoulders; and the costume is com-
pleted by wrappers or skirts of blue and white calico print. Large
gold-plated disks are suspended from the ears, and gold-plated nose
rings are worn by all the women. The cheeks are painted red, and a
blue line is drawn along the full length of the bridge of the nose.

Shamanism is developed to a high degree and there are many dif-
ferent classes of practicing medicine men. The Tule Indians have
given an excellent demonstration of the ability of American Indian
tribes to maintain a highly satisfactory native culture when permitted
to remain relatively free from European influences.

From Panama the writer accompanied the expedition to eastern
Ecuador, where, from December 22, 1931, to March 15, 1932, his time
was spent among the Jivaro Indians of the Santiago-Maranon basin.
Leaving Cuenca in the region of the high Andes, the party proceeded
to the frontier post of Mendez where the first Jivaro Indians were

61
INSTITUTION

SMITHSONIAN

%

bt

a. a
4 ¥
. q

=
7 rf

g cocoa.

Fic, 62—Aguaruna Jivaros of the lower Santiago River
1932

ATIONS,

IX PLOR

SMITHSONIAN

‘Ato}Od SULYRUL TOA
ouerdy oy} yo URWIOM OeAIf W—T9O “DIY

‘pjerys pue
OUR] YM JOMIeM OLBAIL Y—E9 “DIY

64 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

encountered. From Mendez the expedition proceeded on foot to the
headwaters of the Yaupe River. By means of rafts and canoes the
expedition passed down the Yaupe to the Santiago River and thence
down the Santiago to its junction with the Maranon at the famous
Pongo Manseriche, which gorge marks the limit in this direction of
the Jivaro territory.

The Jivaro Indians are divided into upwards of 30 tribes, speaking
a common dialect and maintaining similar customs and material cul-
ture. They are best known to the outside world for the peculiar custom
which they have of collecting the ‘heads of their enemies, whom they
have killed in warfare, and shrinking these heads to the size of a small
orange while preserving perfectly the features of the victim. Warfare
is the very center of existence to the Jivaro Indian and his entire cul-
tural pattern is woven around it. War is conducted on the principle of
blood revenge, and small boys at the age of 5 or 6 years are instructed
daily by their fathers on the necessity of taking blood revenge for
their relatives who have been killed in the past. Small boys accompany
their fathers on war expeditions 1n order to become accustomed to the
realism of killing and to learn the tactics of warfare from direct
observation.

So actively is head hunting practiced that the women, who gen-
erally are not killed in raids, greatly outnumber the men, thus making
polygamy a social necessity. Three or four wives to a man are com-
mon and sometimes a prominent Jivaro will have as many as 12.

The Jivaro community consists of a single house in which live not
more than 30 or 40 individuals, generally comprising a single family
or a group of related families. The Jivaros subsist equally from agri-
culture and by hunting and fishing. The principal hunting weapon is
the blow gun with poisoned darts, but for fighting purposes the lance
and the muzzle-loading shotgun are utilized. There are many causes
of war, but by far the most common is the killing, or supposed killing,
of some member of the group by someone in another group. The
medicine man of his household takes certain drugs, under the in-
fluence of which he learns the identity of the culprit. A feast is then
held, and war is declared against the household of the supposed killer.

A very satisfactory ethnological study was made of the Jivaros of
the Upper Santiago, and full accounts were obtained of specific head-
hunting raids. The Jivaros proved to be an active, intelligent people,
disposed to be friendly when treated fairly, kindly in their home life
and social relations, and exhibiting ferocity only in connection with
the fierce head-hunting raids which have become so indelibly a part
of their culture.
SOME EARLY PUEBLO REMAINS IN EASTERN
ARIZONA

By FRANK H. H. ROBERTS, JR.
Archeologist, Bureau of American Ethnology

The remains of three house groups belonging to the initial and
following stages of the early Pueblo peoples were uncovered by the
writer during the months of June, July, and August, 1932. The in-
vestigations were conducted at a site 33 miles south of Allantown
in eastern Arizona and were a continuation of a program of excava-
tions started in the summer of 1931." The village and house remains
located at this place present an unusual opportunity for studying the
changes which occurred over a long period of time in the cultural
erowth of the pre-Spanish sedentary southwestern Indians. There
are vestiges of four distinct and sequent phases of development 1n-
corporated in the site and the stages represented embrace those in
which the most significant steps in the social advance were taken. The
1931 work was limited to the lower two levels, and that of the 1932
season centered around two house groups belonging to the second
horizon and one representative of the third. The first or oldest level in
the site is typical of the phase which has been called Basket Maker II,
and the three subsequent ones are characteristic of the stages denoted
Pueblo I, II, and III.

The dwellings of the second level, Pueblo I, were of the semi-
subterranean type in which the major portion consisted of a pit,
roughly circular in form, which was dug into the earth (fig. 65). The
walls of the excavation in one of the examples were faced with a
thick coating of adobe plaster, while in the other some stones were
used. The superstructures were formed of heavy timbers, poles,
brush, and plaster. They were supported by upright posts set in the
floors of each chamber and were elevated above the ground level suffi-
ciently to provide proper drainage. An opening near the center of
the roof served as a smoke hole. In one of the structures entrance to
the chamber was gained by means of a ladder passing through this
smoke hole. In the other house the ladder was placed in a small ante-
chamber, and access to the main room was through a narrow, covered
passage. These houses correspond closely to other Pueblo I structures

‘Explorations and Field-work of the Smithsonian Institution in 1931, pp.
141-150, 1932.

65
66 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

“ c +

Fic. 65.—Remains of pit dwelling. The benchlike feature encircling pit
indicates original ground level.

lic. 66.—Uncovering charred room timbers in fill in burned pit dwelling.
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1932 07

Fic. 68.—Workman digging out burial and accompanying mortuary offering
of pottery.
68 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

of the type which the writer has excavated in New Mexico and
Arizona.

One of the structures was destroyed by fire and although the heavier
timbers were seared by the flames they were not completely destroyed
(fig. 66). From the charred material it will probably be possible to
determine, by the Douglass method of tree-ring dating, the year when
the timbers were cut and the house erected. A preliminary plotting of
the beams in the field gave a tentative date of 797 A. D., but this has
not yet been definitely established as correct. Until a careful check
has been made it can only be suggested that the house may date from
the eighth century. The other dwelling did not furnish beam material
which can be studied. Archeological evidence, however, indicates
that it antedated the one which burned.

Adjacent to the pit dwellings were the remains of 12 granaries.
These were also excavated, and it was determined that they were
contemporaneous with the main structures. These storage places had
relatively shallow, rectangular pits lined with stone slabs. They had
also been covered with superstructures of pole and plaster construc-
tion. Although small, two of them gave evidence of having for a
time, at least, served as living rooms. In two of them there were
large quantities of carbonized corn. Eight of the structures belonged
to one of the houses and four to the other.

The ruin corresponding to the third level or Pueblo II consists of
six rooms and a ceremonial chamber. In all respects it is a typical
unit house of the form which has been considered characteristic of
this stage of Pueblo development. The six rooms were joined into a
single-storied building which stood entirely above ground. The cere-
monial chamber was placed in the earth several feet from the south-
east wall of the main building (fig. 67). It was circular in form and
suggested in a modified way the pit type of house of preceding stages.
Timbers from the ruin indicate that the house was built in the latter
part of the ninth century A. D.

A comparison of the plan of one of the pit dwellings and its ac-
companying granaries with that of the unit house and its ceremonial
chamber shows clearly the germ of the Pueblo II small house type.
All that would be needed to develop one from the other would be to
enlarge the granaries and combine them into a single structure, making
them the living quarters, and change the subterranean chamber from
secular to ceremonial purposes.

Pottery, bone, stone, and shell objects obtained from the excava-
tions illustrate the nature of the arts and industries of each phase.
Burials found in association with the house remains demonstrated
period differences comparable to these noted in dwelling types.
SIGNAL BU aA PRE aISTORIC NARRATIVE IN fae
EG Pie S

By W. D. STRONG
Ethnologist, Bureau of American Ethnology

In western Nebraska, near the Wyoming border, is a most unusual
mesa. Located on the edge of the rough Wildcat Range, it repre-
sents an isolated fragment of the old High Plains surface that once
stretched eastward to the Missouri River. Forces of erosion have
dissected this once uniformly sloping plateau, leaving isolated bad-
land areas intersected by stream valleys or dry water courses. Such a
remnant is Signal Butte, which owes its peculiar significance to the
long human record it has preserved. On its flat summit (fig. 69),
where erosion was stopped long ago by a layer of hard, calcareous cap
rock, is now an 8-foot earth cap deposited mainly by eddying winds.
In this deposit occur three distinct prehistoric levels of human occupa-
tion. Succeeding each other in time like the chapters of a book, these
horizons present a story of early man in the western plains.

As a result of the previous year’s reconnaissance at this site * more
extensive excavations were undertaken in June, 1932, with the kind
permission of the owner, E. S. Simpson. The field party consisted of
the writer, Messrs. Wedel, O’Heeron, Kirby, Daniels, and Swanson,
and the cook, Leo Lennear. Mrs. Strong assisted in an unofficial ca-
pacity. On June 27 the Laboratory of Anthropology of Santa Fe,
N. Mex., joined in the work, being represented by four holders of
fellowships—Messrs. Fenton, Holmes, Love, and Wilder.

The earth cap on top of the butte was staked into 5-foot squares, and
a series of trenches was carried through it to the undisturbed gravel or
cap rock. The earth was removed a square at a time and level by level,
and was screened to prevent loss of artifacts (fig. 70). Owing to
strong winds the work of digging, screening, and mapping was ex-
tremely difficult, the dust swirling in clouds and blinding the workers.

The thin middle level (fig. 71) proved to be lacking in pottery and
distinct from both upper and lower levels in its limited artifact con-
tent. A medium-sized barbed and stemmed stone point (fig. 72, m)
was its most distinctive type. An important discovery was the oc-
currence of silt, sand, and gravel deposits directly underlying the low-
est living level (fig. 71). These were obviously laid down at a period

‘Explorations and Field-work of the Smithsonian Institution in 1931, pp. I51-
158, 1032
69
7O SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Fic. 69.—Signal Butte from main escarpment to the south.
Photograph by C. L. Dow.

Fic. 70.—Excavating main north to south trench.
4 5 <s
Photograph by W. R. Wedel.

Fig. 71.—Original test trench completed, showing three occupation levels
and whitish water-borne material under lowest level. Photograph by W. R.

Wedel.
“aaysyod yyeys ‘0
‘sjme ou0q
f1oyey 9u0q
yensnun ‘p :s

suiqqna ‘ue
fauoq peastoul *
‘qap ‘a :szurod
Ul OM} ‘GQ SSeATUy

7 tspreq suoq *y
tsaadeios puo
apis ‘9 tsqurod yo sod4} ule
jeusig uo Jada, tWo}}O0q Wot} $}0R

‘yuvpued [,eqs

2

Be

Ig

TIONS,

EXPLOR

SMITHSONIAN

[lap ‘lu
‘sjuiod Morte ‘ut :stodetos pues “] 2 PA] Spr eee
auog ‘¥ :1oyRY toy}Ue ‘6 syound sayjue “f AlUy pelfaaeq ‘9
‘saadeios pua ‘p ‘sjurod Mote ‘2 tspaaysjod ody uerorpqnd
-ay teddy) “4 fspaaysjod eddy J9ATQYy [PLUSTCY ‘p ijaAa] doy,
‘ayng jeusig Uo sfeAo| goddn wo.iz syoepyay—24 ‘STS

jtaee

q

72 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

when the butte was connected with the main escarpment to the south
(fig. 69). Thus the earliest occupation on the surface of the butte
occurred at a time when the process of aggradation had been arrested
and a local upbuilding process inaugurated through wind action.
Studies bearing on the age of the deposits are now in progress.

Articles of Caucasian origin were found only above the grass roots
on the butte. Below this for 2 feet were evidences of sporadic occu-
pation by pottery-using peoples. Potsherds of two types were found in
this upper level (fig. 72, a, b). These later peoples were apparently
attracted to the butte by its unusual appearance and the protection it
afforded. Occasionally they buried their dead here in crude, stone-lined
graves. Particularly characteristic of the upper-level peoples were
beautiful little triangular arrow points and bevelled, diamond-shaped
knives (fig. 72, c, e). An unusual find was a fishhook (fig. 72, h) re-
covered by G. L. Waters from the upper level and kindly presented to
the writer. The middle level was too thin to offer many clues as to the
nature of its inhabitants, but the bottom level was thick and contained
much material bearing on the life of these early people. Apparently
they had no fixed habitations but lived around stone-lined hearths
which occur at frequent intervals. Near the fireplaces are small pits
dug into the gravel containing animal bones and a few implements.
Vast numbers of animal bones, often split for the marrow they con-
tained, are scattered throughout this layer. Numerous awls and
scrapers testify to working in skins (fig. 73, c, g, 1) ; hence it can be
assumed that these Signal Butte people were warmly dressed. Hunt-
ing was apparently done with the bow and arrow (fig. 73, b, d) though
the spear thrower may also have been employed. The lighter side of
life is suggested by large amounts of varicolored mineral paints, while
geometrically incised bone fragments and a cut shell testify to their
artistic efforts (fig. 73, 7. 7). That they ground stone is clear from
the hammerstones, polishing stones, and other artifact types recovered
(fig. 73, m, n, 0).

After our work on top of the butte several artifacts were discovered
below it in the banks of Spring Creek, 300 yards to the north, in as-
sociation with the remains of an extinct species of bison.” This dis-
covery, made by a paleontological field party of the University of
Nebraska, may add a still earlier chapter to the human record at
Signal Butte. Thus the story, written with the tools of generations of
men from the Ice Age to the present, is at last being read by the
paleontologist and anthropologist of today.

* Science Service, Research Announcement No. 140, Aug. 8, 1932.
STUDMING TEE ARTIKARA AND THEDR NEIGHBORS
ON are WiPPERMiSSOURL

By W. D. STRONG
Ethnologist, Bureau of American Ethnology

In July, 1932, at the close of the Signal Butte excavations, the com-
bined Bureau of American Ethnology and Santa Fe Laboratory of
Anthropology field party moved 400 miles northeast to the vicinity of
the Grand River in northern South Dakota. A historic Arikara
village, designated as the Leavenworth site, which had been abandoned
by the Arikara in 1833, 10 years after it had been bombarded by
Colonel Leavenworth and his allies (fig. 74), was chosen for excava-
tion. A survey map of the site revealed over 150 lodge circles about
equally divided into two contemporaneous villages on either side of a
small creek, but it must be remembered that not all these houses were
occupied at the same time.

We completely opened four houses, two on each side of the creek,
the floor plans (fig. 75) agreeing well with ethnological accounts. The
Arikara earth lodge differs from that of the historic Pawnee in re-
taining the four-post central foundation and in lacking any outer or
third row of posts. Entrance passageways were present in all four
lodges. Particularly interesting was the large medicine lodge in the
upper village (fig. 75) which conformed in detail to the rather elabo-
rate symbolism of the present-day Arikara. A number of refuse
heaps were trenched and several of the numerous caches or corn
cellars opened. An interesting representation of both aboriginal and
white contact material was obtained. The occasional blending and
substitution of old and new ideas is shown in several of the pieces
illustrated (fig. 77).

Work having been well started at the Leavenworth site, Mrs. Strong
and I went north to Nishu in the Fort Berthold Reservation, N. Dak.
Here, from August 1 to 6, the Arikara held their Mother Corn and
allied ceremonies. The sage dance, a picturesque purification rite
performed by members of the medicine societies, occupied the first
three nights. One who has witnessed this dance in the fire-lit lodge
redolent with the smell of purifying sage is not likely to forget it.
Late evenings were filled with song contests between the societies,
usually culminating with feasts. Pervading all was a wealth of ritual
involving tobacco offerings, food offerings, and the burning of sweet-
grass incense. Later in the week, after elaborate ceremonies, the sacred

73
74 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Fic. 74.—One of Colonel Leavenworth’s unexploded howitzer shells in floor
of an earth lodge. The Arikara claim their young men gained war honors by
removing the fuses before such shells could explode.

Fic. 75—Floor plan of an Arikara earth lodge, Leavenworth site. Sacred
rock and medicine lodge pit in left background.

Fic. 76-—Two members of the Owl society passing the sacred cedar and
stone before the medicine lodge at Nishu. The man on the right 1s priest ot
the last functional Arikara sacred bundle.
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1932

‘asn umMOoUyUN Jo Sjyalqo auoq ‘y ‘s}urod
MOIIV JUTE pue aspue ‘7 ‘/ appuey eyruy pue toysay UoTeUIG
-woo “1 $syooy ysy suo0q ‘y ‘s~me taddoo pue suoq ‘b ‘f fa Syuaur
-euro auoq ‘p fajjstym suoq ‘9 fadid ayuipyeo ‘gq !spsaysjod ‘vp
:(¢ UBPURY, S1IOJSIYO}OIG) J}Is YSAY Wor} sqoejIvy— 94 ‘S17

[Me aU0q ‘ut fqIt payojou ‘WH :Sope[q
ayluy UOT puke 9uU0}S i Bel !syuepuod Me]D o[sva pPue YOO} A[ZZ115
‘. $(2) 9anseour iIapMod dopjue ‘Yy ‘yurod Japjue ‘6 ‘speeq ][ays
‘{ tspeayMoite auo0q pue jury ‘uot ‘sseiq ‘a ‘p ‘9 ‘q ‘tspaaysqod
‘D :9HS YWOMUDARAT ‘S}JOR}IZAR PIPYIIW d10}stFJ—"Z4  “DIq

76 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION
“ grandmother ” cedar tree was planted before the eastern entrance
to the lodge. Next to it was “ grandfather” rock, now painted red
with a black belt (fig. 76). That evening the beef dedicated to
Mother Corn was killed and prepared, exactly as in the olden days
when a fat buffalo cow was thus offered by a successful hunter.

The next morning marked the climax of the week. After smoke
offerings, prayers, and the burning of incense, the only sacred bundle
still functioning was opened before the altar. The sacred bundle
forms the very soul of Arikara religion, and only a priest versed in
all the complex lore pertaining to each bundle may open it. It is
impossible to observe such a bundle and its varied contents without
appreciating its antiquity. The writer was particularly struck by the
inclusion of at least six skins of the extremely rare Carolina parrakeet
and what appeared to be the skin of an ani, a southern bird which
occurs rarely north of the Gulf of Mexico.

There followed many songs pertaining to the bundle, sung in honor
of Mother Corn, symbolized by a cloth-wrapped stalk of green corn.
Later, people brought many presents to certain distinguished old
men, who proceeded to bless the children of the donors and to give
them honorable names. Particularly favored as name-givers were
four fine old warriors, Red Bear, Little Sioux, Bear’s Belly, and
Running Wolf. These men had served as scouts for Gen. George A.
Custer prior to the fatal day of June 25, 1876, when, against their
advice, he led his command into the valley of the Little Big Horn.
Symbolic dances were next performed, in which both men and
women participated, depicting the planting of the corn, the hunting of
the buffalo, and triumphs over their enemies in vivid pantomime. The
ceremony culminated with carrying the Mother Corn to the “ Holy
River,” as the Arikara term the Missouri, where the carriers waded in
waist-deep and offered last prayers to the corn spirit. The symbolic
corn stalk was then tossed into the stream to float down past all the
ancient Arikara villages, carrying messages from the living to the dead.

After leaving the Leavenworth site, we conducted stratigraphic
studies in the refuse mounds of another village across the river. From
its arrangement and its pottery and artifacts, this site appeared to
be of Mandan origin (fig. 78). From the presence of a few evidences
of white contact it was evidently occupied into the protohistoric period.
As was true in Nebraska, the protohistoric period on the upper Mis-
souri River appears to have been considerably richer than the early
historic period (compare figs. 77 and 78). Ten other villages were
carefully surveyed and their refuse heaps sampled. In addition, a
map of the numerous sites along this section of the Missouri was
prepared.
TRATOING Hite MOUNDS BUILDERS OF WE
NESSES STE RIO VAI EY,

3y WINSLOW M. WALKER

Associate Anthropologist, Bureau of American Ethnology

The mound-building Indians of the Mississippi Valley formed the
subject of my investigations during the fall of 1932. Starting at
Aztalan, Wis., accompanied by my father, Edwin F. Walker, also an
archeologist, I traced their work down past the Cahokia group in
Illinois and through the great valley almost to its mouth, conducting
extensive excavations in Louisiana. After finishing this work, we
again took to the road and visited notable mound sites near Natchez,
Miss., Moundville, Ala., and Etowah, Ga., making in all a tour of
nearly 4,000 miles.

An important stop was made in Arkansas, where two weeks was
spent, under the guidance of Senator John Quarles of Helena, in
ascertaining that all Quapaw village sites visited by the early French
explorers had been claimed by “ Ole Man River.” So we cannot say
definitely whether these Indians ever were mound builders. But Col.
John R. Fordyce, of Hot Springs, has four Spanish halberds found
near mounds in Arkansas, which fact corroborates statements in the
De Soto narratives that in 1541 Indians were still building mounds.

I-xcavations on the great mound at Jonesville, La., began where the
steam shovels left off after removing the dirt almost to street level
in order to build a nearby bridge approach. Obviously we could not
expect to find much in such a remnant of a mound formerly 8o feet
high, perhaps the highest in the South; but we were intrigued by the
mystery of those extensive layers of cane which appeared in irregular
lines and patches over the scraped surface. Truckloads of this cane
had been removed in cutting down the mound. Nowhere else, so far
as known, has such a feature ever been found in an Indian mound.

We began carefully to lay bare the cane at the southern end of the
block and to follow it down to its starting point. It consisted of pieces

of swamp cane, trimmed and split, laid side by side, and crossed at
right angles by other layers, but not interwoven; the whole as beau-
tifully done as veneered woodwork. These great sheets of cane evi-
dently were not used as a floor, for while we sometimes found them

laid horizontally, more often they were sloping, again nearly vertical,

77
78 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Fic. 79.—Great Mound, Jonesville, La. Photograph by G. V. Cotton,
about 1922 or 1923.

Fic. 80—Great Mound, Jonesville, La. South wall of cross trench showing
five layers of cane.
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1932 79

> -

Fic. 81.—Southern end of Great Mound; uncovering earlier mound. Note
pile of logs, slope of earlier mound behind first workmen, line of posts in top
trench in center, workmen brushing bark slabs on slope.

Frc. 82.—Great Mound, Jonesville, La. Tops of posts in position show through
slope of earlier mound.
So SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

or even in wavy lines. Near the center of the mound cane sheets ap-
peared in five successive layers, varying from I to 20 inches in thick-
ness, and separated by carefully packed-in layers of clay. The highest
part of the mound had towered originally 75 feet over this section.

The base of the mound lay from 4 to 6 feet below the present sur-
face. Beneath it was undisturbed sandy loam, showing in places in-
dications of fire where the vegetation had been burned prior to the
mound’s erection. Clays of various shades from red to blue were the
building material used. We could see clearly how the large chunks
had been fitted together to produce the slope, because they came away
along definite lines of cleavage. What the method of transporting
them had been we could only guess; probably the earth had been
carried in skins, as we found no basket impressions on the clay. We
did, however, discover a few isolated pieces of very thin matting, too
fragile to have been used for lifting such heavy clay.

Close to the southern border of the mound, at what seemed to be
the edge of an earlier mound, we uncovered a series of 14 posts set ina
line only a few degrees off due east-west. They were of cypress, gum,
and locust, cut off at the ends by a blunt-edged tool, probably a stone
ax. Most of the tops had rotted away, but many of the butts were still
firmly in place, 3 feet down in the undisturbed sandy loam, tamped
with clay. Two logs had been piled against the outer side of the posts
and a few feet beyond them was a pile of nine more logs. Near the
westernmost post a human skull was found crushed into the clay,
the only human remains discovered. The great mound was built over
all of this.

On the slopes of the earlier mound were slabs of wood split or
hewn, trimmed into boards found lying side by side; some east and
west, others north and south. Two building periods of this mound
were indicated by stumps of trees that had grown on an upper level
littered with ashes, charcoal, animal bones, and fragments of pottery.

Trenches were extended across the 300-foot block both ways, dis-
closing the base of the great mound as about 180 by 225 feet, nearly
the same as William Dunbar’s estimate in 1804. At the outer edges
of the mound were seen deposits left by successive overflows. No
indications of buildings or tombs were found: yet the cane composing
the sheets had been placed almost exactly east and west or north and
south, marking it, undoubtedly, as something put there for a special
purpose.
FIELD-WORK AMONG THE IROQUOIS INDIANS OF
NEW YORK AND CANADA

By J. N. B. HEWITT
Ethnologist, Bureau of American Ethnology

To resume his ethnological studies among the members of the
former Six Nations of Iroquois Indians dwelling on the Grand River
Grant, near Brantford, Ontario, Canada, and in New York State, the
writer left Washington in May, 1932. His researches began with a
study of the present status and effectiveness of the clan form of
governmental organization, based as it is on the fundamental unit of
blood kinship, the ohwachira (or uterine brood or family), for with-
out the integrity of this organic unit the Iroquois clan cannot function
normally, if at all. And the structure of which it is an organic unit
becomes inevitably disorganized as a consequence.

This slow process of disintegration of the organic units of the in-
stitutions of the League of the Iroquois was long manifest to people
and leaders, but no one was inspired to devise and to apply remedial
measures to check the decay and to reconstitute the ancient integrity of
these forms of discipline. The result was inevitable. There came a
day when form and spirit had left the regulations, the ordinances, and
the laws of the League, and so only futile and clumsy substitutes were
unwittingly put forward, and the process of disintegration was not
checked. The people murmured, and among them dissentions grew
apace, and bitter factional struggles became frequent, often resulting
in violence. As a result the Canadian Government found it necessary
to end this intolerable condition by abrogating the institutions of the
League of the Iroquois in 1924. The discipline and authority of the
ohwachira and the clan have become quite forgotten and so today do
not maintain any effective guidance in social and_ political affairs
on any Iroquois reservation.

Before the institution of the League of the Iroquois by Deganawida
and his co-workers, blood feuds, maintained and governed by the
erim law of requital in kind, commonly called the lex talionis, were
causing untold grief and haunting fears among the people by the
multiplying deaths of blood kindred, which checked any rapid in-
crease of population. Deganawida and his astute advisers, realizing
that no community or organized society can prosper and be contented
living under such ill-omened conditions, enacted the law of atonement

81
INSTITUTION

SMITHSONIAN

oe)

*‘s[eNyII I19q} GYM
‘UOTBAIISII SIY UO AJBIOOG [BAN|NISY suoTyeNE XIG 9Y} JO Japuno} 9y} ‘|RAI}SOq Ieak MAN 9Y} 0} puke sronbo1ry 94} Jo onsva7yT ay} 0} Suyeyo1
Os]e SEM oY fSWIeJ 981v] OM} UOT}RAIZ[ND JapuN SUIARY *SUIWIAV} UT Op-0} Ajlolquayyne pue ssoudja[dui0d 10F a[qQey1eUlaI S$}xX9} 94} WIMEF “AP 0}
-]]2M asuRD8q OYM ‘epeURD ‘olIeJUGQ ‘IdAIY puRin ‘stonbo1y Jo suore) yMeyoW pue esepuoug UI pszezoIp axY ‘stonbo1ry jo suoneN XI 19A1Y
"€g ‘OLY

XI§ 9y} JO BSNARD 94} JO UOSIOWIAf SOWIE Joly 93k] VYLT—‘heg “Oly pueity 94} JO BOaUaG kB ‘UOSqI‘) ANYJIW UYOL JoIyD I", 9yYL

82

XPLORATIONS, I9

18,

SMITHSONIAN

38y} JO JTapunoy oy} *epimeursa
1 J Pp! d

‘sionboiy ay} Jo onseayT
JO 19YJOJY UISITA 94} *,99S,,RS,yOSIl(]

JO UOl}Ipesy OUsYyINL oY} UlejaI 0} UONBIOUaS Surssed dy} JO 4svy]

oY} SEM OFT “eSNABD ay} JO sqoov

{ ydasof joryd-xq ae] EY. —‘98 ‘OTy

“SOOURADIID [PC11}
Auvlu jo uonvoripnipe uv 10y sevajd \ as.10a0 SUTIN, a1ojaq 30nd
OF *pur[suy ‘UOpuoTy poysIA YoIyM ‘epeuRD ‘o1meyUG ‘IsATYy puri‘
ay} JO stonbo1y sy} Jo suonjeN XIG ay} Jo UoIQeSalap adie] B Jo au0
SeM O£61 UT OYM ‘esNAD vy} Jo uRsOT ydasoy Joly D-xXq— "$8 ‘sry

IN
84 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

which abrogated for the tribes of the League of the Iroquois the
lex talionis, the law of blood revenge.

The late Chief John Arthur Gibson dictated a lengthy text in the
Onondaga dialect embodying in great detail the law of atonement,
which clearly shows the means adopted by Deganawida and _ his
counselors to nullify the age-old Jexv talionis, that is to say, the grim
law of requital in kind in homicides. The contents of this remarkable
law of atonement are so unique that the writer devoted much time
to a study and analysis of the law. It deals with ohwachira (or uterine
families) as the interested parties and the federal council of the league
as the court of last resort, and so its enforcement was an intricate
procedure, which must be studied to make clear the full intent of this
law of atonement in homicides.

From time immemorial the blood feud had existed among the
Troquoian tribes. It was an ever-present cause of the killing of per-
sons, the loss of whom the several communities could not well afford.
Various remedial measures were in vogue to check this cause of the
loss of valuable lives. Within the jurisdiction of the Iroquois tribes
the blood feud involved groups of persons, ohwachira, but not in-
dividuals, because the ohwachira (the uterine kin) was the simplest
and smallest legal person. The individual in tribal law did not exist
outside of the ohwachira in which he was born.

The writer’s study of the law of atonement for homicides in the
blood feud disclosed some essential differences between it and the
antecedent and contemporary measures in vogue among the Huron
and other tribes for terminating blood feuds. Unlike these measures
the law of atonement promulgated by Deganawida and the federal
council of the league fixed the amount of the compensation for a
homicide and made it the legal tender in such cases, thus limiting
measurably the impulse to excess in taking revenge.

This excellent result was achieved by the device of setting a legal
price on the life of a man and on that of a woman. The price set
on the life of a male person was Io strings of shell or wampum beads,
each 5 hand-spans long. The legal tender, therefore, for the atonement
for the slaying of a male person by a male was fixed at 20 such strings,
because by the rights and obligations of the blood feud the life of the
slayer was forfeited to the kin of the slain person, and so it had to be
retrieved. The price set on the life of a female person was appraised
at double that of a male person, namely, 20 strings of shell or wampum
beads, each 5 hand-spans in length, so that for the killing of a female
person by another female person the legal tender in such case to be
offered by the ohwachira of the murderess to the aggrieved ohwachira
was therefore fixed at 40 such strings.
FIELD-WORK AMONG THE MISSION INDIANS OF
CALIFORNIA

By J. P. HARRINGTON
Ethnologist, Bureau of American Ethnology

Just as the holy of holies at the center of the Mission Indian temple
was surrounded by an enclosure and outside this by a still larger en-
closure to keep the Indian throngs of the fiesta from penetrating too
closely to the sacred secrets of religion, so the dwindling core of
language, custom, and ceremony of these Indians has become hidden
by a double barricade of acquired American and Spanish culture,
making access to it difficult. But our recent field-work has succeeded in
penetrating to the very core, resulting in one success after another
in the obtaining of rare information. This information was obtained
using the native languages as the vehicle of record, thus securing
ethnological and linguistic material at the same time.

At Rincon Indian Reservation an Indian temple similar to that de-
scribed by Fr. Antonio de la Ascension as having been discovered by
the men of the Viscaino expedition on Santa Catalina Island was
visited and studied. This temple ground, just northeast of the house
of Chief Juan Sotelo Calac (see fig. 87), measures 38 feet from north
to south, and 58 feet from east to west. The fire pit, 4 feet in diameter,
has three stone potrests and is at the exact center of the ground.
When mantled for ceremony a brush fence is built about the northern
half of this temple only, a steep rise in the ground forming the south-
ern boundary. The temple was always elliptical, with its long axis
extending east and west. Photographs of this temple, taken in dis-
mantled condition, and again when a fiesta was in progress, are re-
produced as Figures 87 and 88.

The last old Indian house still standing in all the coast region of
southern California was found above the rancheria of Kuuki in a
little-known part of Palomar Mountain. It is of the type built of
poles and slabs of the bark of tovot, Libocedrus decurrens Torr., in-
cense cedar, and according to the informants presents the same ap-
pearance that it did some 30 years ago. The house is shown in Fig-
ure go.

Rare information was obtained as to how these Indians used to
brand themselves with various designs and also cauterize sores by

85
SO SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Fic. 87—Wamkic, Indian temple, at the house of Chief Juan Sotelo Calac,
Rincon Indian Reservation, Calif., in dismantled condition. Photograph by
J. P. Harrington.

Fie. 88—Wamkic, Indian temple, at the house of Chief Juan Sotelo Calac,
Rincon Indian Reservation, Calif., fixed up and consecrated for religious
fiesta. Photograph by J. P. Harrington.
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1932 87

Fic. 89—Chief Juan Sotelo Calac, Rincon Indian Reservation, Calif., and his
wife, Mrs. Carnaciona Calac. Photograph by J. P. Harrington.

Fic. 90.—The last Indian house in the coast region of southern California,
on top of Palomar Mountain above Kuuki rancheria. Photograph by J. P.
Harrington.
88 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

using the dried and pounded up leaves of Artemisia vulgaris L. var.
heterophylla Jepson, California mugwort (Spanish, estafiate). The
leaves, silvery underneath, become dry and shriveled in the early
summer, and were pounded on the anvil stone to make a spongy
fuzzlke material, which was laid on the bare skin of the Indian to
form the desired pattern, and was lighted. The pain was intense, as
the burning reached the skin, but it was borne without a wince or
murmur. The brand resembled a cattle brand and adorned the person
for life.

New data were also obtained on the similar custom of tattooing. The
pattern was pricked with a cactus or other thorn, or a sharp flint
fragment, and the green leaves of either one of two species of
Solanum, S. douglastt Dunal, a perennial, or S. nigrum L., an annual,
both called black nightshade in English and chichiquelite in Spanish,
were pounded up to a salvelike mass and rubbed in the bleeding
wound. A permanent bluish black tattoo was the result.

The chief diety of the Mission Indians of the coast region was
the God Chingichngich, a strange Indian prophet and religious leader
who was born at the village of Puvu’, which with its old spring lay
just downslope from the tennis court at the Fred. H. Bixby ranch in
the southwest corner of Los Angeles County, on the northern bank
of the New San Gabriel River and only a little over 2 miles inland
from Seal Beach. He was of lowly birth and his real name, by which
he was called in childhood, was *Wiyaamot. After he became a
religious leader, he taught the people that they should call and invoke
him by the name Chingichngich. He has three epithets: (1) Sza’ uura,
meaning lowly person, applied to him to bring out his lowly birth.
(2) Toovit, Sylvilagus bachmani cinerascens (Allen), California
brush rabbit. This tiny rabbit was the first man who ever sang in the
world, and this epithet was applied to the prophet when he had already
become a religious teacher and was no longer a common person.
(3) Kwa” owar, a very sacred name applied after Chingichngich had
ascended to heaven, whence he watches our deeds and punishes the
one that does not obey his commands by having poisonous and fierce
animals or plants or minerals do injury to him.

The Mission Indian calendar was determined to have only six double
months, of two moons each, and not eight as has been stated in the
books. The seventh and eighth double months were renamings by the
dying Woyoot of months which he had already named the year pre-
vious. The key to this solution lay in printed documents, and also in
the memory of the oldest Indians.
AN TEROROE@OGICMES STUDIES IN- OKLAHOMA
AND IOWA

By TRUMAN MICHELSON
Ethnologist, Bureau of American Ethnology

The field season of 1932 was devoted to anthropological researches
among the Arapaho, Cheyenne, Kickapoo, Kiowa, Sauk, and Fox.
As I have stated previously (Bull. 105, Bur. Amer. Ethnol.,
p. 104), the Kickapoo have a religious performance at night which
in name corresponds to the Fox Wapanowiweni (wapaAndyiwagi
= Fox wapanowiwagi) but of which further details were unknown.
By good fortune I found a Kickapoo informant who had witnessed the
performance among the Kickapoo of Coahuila and who gave a very
good account of it. In connection with the ceremony the trick of
jamming one’s arm in boiling water without injury still persists in
Mexico, whereas in Oklahoma this has been lost.

The work among the Sauk was confined to witnessing a part of the
celebrated Metawiwent (medicine dance ; mystic rite would be a close
rendition ), which I had never seen previously. I was fortunate enough
to witness the “ shooting” portion thereof, in which the members
“ shoot’? each other with the otter-skin bags and gourd-rattles, with
the result that the “ victim” falls on his face apparently unconscious
and then recovers. There was only one exception ; a lively old gentle-
man when “ shot” cried out and staggered but did not fall, and then
recovered amid the plaudits of the crowd. I heard one Sauk say,
“ He’s powerful ; they can’t put him down.” One woman (apparently
the novitiate) beat a drum and carried it, both of which are unheard
of among the Fox Indians. I was not allowed to be very close and so
could hear only portions of the prayers. At present it seems hardly
probable that a full account of the Sauk ceremony can be obtained
owing to the conservative character of the members; so we must fall
back upon the more or less fragmentary accounts of the older writers,
such as Forsyth, Beltrami, Stanley, and of Skinner in more recent
times. Yet if we pool all these sources we have ample evidence to
identify the Sauk Metawiweni in the main with the Ojibwa Midawiwin
(Grand Medicine Society).

The object of the work among the Kiowa was to obtain certain

‘

sociological data. The Kiowa were willing informants, and a number
of personal narratives were obtained ; from them it is easy to recognize
the tremendous power a Kiowa male has over his sister, even if she

89
INSTITUTION

SMITHSONIAN

ele)

‘ZPgi ul Usog ueIpUy
xO B “AS ‘yuoduaaeq AlIeP]_—'z

6 ‘OI

‘TEOI ‘uosjaysiy Aq ydess
-0JOYUq ‘Oyedery UsYINOS pose uy— 16 °

oy

OI

S.1922

IRATION

EXPL

SMITHSONIAN

“1d
ay} Apavypiuuis !oinyjno xo po JUussaidot jou
ssop ‘UONRIDUaS JOsuNOA 9Yy} YPM sAepndod
ysnoy} ‘Jouuoq 1PM oY
Aq ydeisojoyg ‘ueipuy

‘LOL “UOSTIYIIT
XOJ—v6 “SIL

"O11}}B [PIUOWIIII UT ‘}UVSap
XO,J puke YN poeXIU Jo ‘ssaJaq WIRG—'LO “DIST

bo

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

were widowed. It is clear enough that Kiowa sociology, by and large,
is too close to that of other Indian tribes of the Great Plains to have
arisen independently.

The work among the Cheyenne was to gain an insight into their
mythology, and to a less extent their sociology and linguistics. I was
fortunate enough to have as my assistant Mack Haag, who had been
so useful in previous years. It should be noted that the military
societies of the Cheyenne are ungraded, to that extent resembling those
of the Dakota, rather than those of the Arapaho. Yet historically the
Cheyenne have been long and intimately associated with the Arapaho.
The divergent Algonquian character of the Cheyenne language is due
primarily to the operation of a very complex character of phonetic
shifts which are of wide application. The remarkable “ high tone ” of
some syllables is not an archaism as some might suspect; it is due
entirely to the mechanical sound-shifts alluded to above.

Among the Arapaho linguistics and sociology were prime objects
of investigation. I again cbtained the services of Rowlodge, who re-
corded the personal narrative of a Southern Arapaho woman aged
78. Upon examination it appears that very little of this is purely per-
sonal. The tribal pattern is obvious everywhere ; and with few changes
it might have been the narrative of any elderly Arapaho woman.

In July, | went among the Foxes of Iowa to obtain new sociological
and ceremonial data. Of course any present-day study of Fox society
must always labor under two handicaps: (1) the Foxes, except for
the fight with the Comanche, Kiowa, Cheyenne, and Arapaho in 1854,
have been uniformly peaceful for a hundred years; I*ox history shows
that they were a proud, formidable fighting nation, whereas it is 1m-
possible now for anyone to win military honors, have scalp-dances, etc. ;
(2) deer and buffaloes no longer exist in Iowa and the economic life
of the Foxes is thereby altered. Hence it follows that the chief former
occupations of Fox men—war and the chase—are gone, and they have
had to find modern substitutes for them. Alas! there is nothing that
can replace the former military glory. Furthermore, owing to the
fearful losses by disease, especially small-pox, cholera, and in recent
years influenza, the whole scheme of exogamy of gentes has gone. The
festivals appurtenant to the special gentes, however, have survived
with great vigor. The system of consanguinity has remained intact,
and for the most part the varying attitudes this implies ; though it is
true that the taboos among the younger generation have partially
begun to break down, and they now pronounce personal names which
they should not in given circumstances. Truly remarkable has been the
change in this people from the time I first visited them in rort to the

present time.
RECORDING SEMINOLE SONGS IN FLORIDA

By FRANCES DENSMORE
Collaborator, Bureau of American Ethnology

A study of the music of the Seminole Indians in Florida was con-
tinued by the writer during 1932, as a part of her research in the
music of the American Indians for the Bureau of American Eth-
nology. During January the work was conducted in several camps
within a radius of 45 miles of Miami. The various activities of the
people were seen and photographed, and specimens were purchased.

In the Seminole village near Dania the process of making “ coonte
flour’ was seen. This flour, made from the root of Zamuia floridana,
is the staple vegetable food of the Seminole. The root is grated, mixed
with water, and strained through a cloth, the four being rubbed smooth
between the fingers. Specimens of the plant and three grades of the
flour were obtained. James L. Glenn, financial clerk in charge, Semi-
nole Agency, Dania, extended his cooperation.

The dug-out canoe is the only means of transportation in the
Everglades. An expert canoe-maker had two canoes in process of
construction. These were photographed and several models of canoes
were obtained, including an old type that the Seminole used in the
salt water many years ago. This model, made by Billie Motlo, one of
the oldest men of the tribe, was equipped with a mast and sail, the
rigging being of twine made from grass.

The leader of the singing among the Seminole living in the Big
Cypress Swamp is Panther (fig. 95), commonly known as Josie
Billie, who alsa treats the sick. He recorded 75 songs of the corn and
hunting dances as well as the alligator, catfish, quail, screech owl, and
other dances. This did not approach the number of songs which he
knew. He also related tribal stories, singing their songs, and in-
terpreted ancient legends related by Billie Motlo. This was a part of
the work done at the Musa Isle Trading Post and was made possible by
the courtesy of Mr. and Mrs. B. L. Lasher.

The death of John Tiger, one of the old men of the tribe, occurred
in January. He had been friendly toward the writer and had given
her some leaves from his medicine bag saying that, in old times, he
“eave some of this to the boys when they took a canoe out alone in
deep water, so they would be safe.” After the death of John Tiger,
his wife (fig. 96) went into the depths of the Everglades and re-
mained during the time appointed for isolation and mourning.

93
INSTITUTION

SMITHSONIAN

O4

"198

L uyol

‘SAT —'96) 91

A

“(A[Lg atsof) 1t9yjzueq—'S6 “DI

SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1932 95

Fic. 908.—Portion of Charlie Cypress’ hunting camp. Photograph by
Miss Densmore.
96 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

In February, a trip was made to several camps in the interior of
the Big Cypress Swamp under the escort of W. Stanley Hanson, of
Fort Myers. Five camps were visited and photographed. In a camp
near Immokalee, Wilson Cypress was seen mending an ox-yoke, hav-
ing detached the oxen from a crude conveyance in which his family
were traveling. This is a “stop camp” for any Indians passing by.
Owing to the exceedingly dry season it was possible to make the trip
into the Cypress Swamp by automobile ; the camps are usually reached
only by canoe or ox team.

New Camp Florida is located on a large hammock surrounded by
custard-apple and other trees. A vacant dwelling in this camp is
shown in Figure 97. Adjoining it, on the right, was a garden in which,
according to Seminole custom, the ground was practically uncleared.
In this garden were taro and mulberry trees that had been set out and
wild banana trees and pawpaws. Sugar cane, corn, pumpkins, and
other crops had been harvested. Old Camp Florida, next visited, has
been abandoned since a death occurred in it, about 1927. The most
remote camp seen was Charlie Cypress’ hunting camp, which con-
tained no permanent dwellings (fig. 98). Under a canvas shelter a
woman was sewing, and Mrs. Richard Osceola was mixing bread for
the evening meal. She consented to turn from her work while the
photograph was taken. The last camp visited was Charlie Dixie’s hunt-
ing camp, in which there were neither platforms nor shelters. The
small children in this camp wore no clothing.

Continuing her journey the writer went to Brighton, on the “ Indian
Prairie’ northwest of Lake Okeechobee, and thence south into the
cabbage palm country, visiting the three camps in this group. This
region is the abode of the Cow Creek Seminole. The leader of the
singing in their dances is Billie Stuart, who recorded 125 songs with-
out hesitation. These included 17 songs attributed to the Caloosa. At
this location valuable assistance was rendered by Mrs. Eliza Fielden.

An abandoned village site and an old burial ground near Fort
Lauderdale were visited and photographed, after which the work
near Miami was resumed. Several exhibition dances and two public
Seminole weddings were attended.

A large collection of specimens was obtained for the United States
National Museum, including old turtle-shell and coconut-shell rattles
and a cane flute of a type which, it 1s believed, has not hitherto been
observed.
a ai ue
aaa wt
se oe Oe
) a

Cd 14 a Lay
4,

satel
ae 1

LS
co a
‘chat

7 . wy Ot gO

. Yo a GM ay es a) ee A a Ss | | a |
ai Gg oe ee oe el EE oe te ah
1 a @ og oat oY 8 af OM a Ma a ae) a a gh ep ek oe oh
ye ee ee i ¥ yy 7 rs re al a aE RE A ah ae ay

2 Se NEA

SA Ps: ei

Pee a € 4 4 tot & 8 ea td ae oo
‘a wf € a. it e ‘ee Me * i i
gal _* ®l |. ey —? a * a . ee 3 ee mw 2
uw € cs t. 7

« ~ - &

Be ee ee

a

Y e@ # -«
Fe ge He

oe Sa ee on

ee ee a Pa ed rr e ae ws “i we
ae af al a ol a a a) Gg a ff « Cn a Tor a ee)
eee ee a ah ea af Hp ME
( ee el ot a a dl og “ah re cee & “4 ca ae ee
ee a « ‘dl Sal oe “WE Bh ae
ai et a) Ea aa ot BE ae ap Gh eR Oe aie wi
sa] al #8] Al a] a i a) At a} ay af a) et ah ae Se ag
ce es r gh oak Bel
Fe ee ee a es
 ! # 1” a] 4 Pa af oe a Ge “a ae ee 6 wt
©, 5 | os] a] Sf Bf sl Mf a 4 G| 4 af sf 28 48 «8 AB
\ a rt a] a] at a “eh Cr a ee ee ee ey
sr 4 -_ ~ — oer Se
~
7 ~ aod a ioe ~~ -
wn =
~ = - — _— sauna
/ a
ui 7 S
—_— _ = —
— — - — Zi
es a — ~ a — .
_—-~ — er > year,
——, wee ad — _— —
— a ~ — ~ —— ai
mee, oes — ~ _ — ~ _— Bo =
—_ — — —s <a ~— _ — ~< ~ a
on , —— P ae —_ - x x, —_ a ee " —
— — — — — ww < aad a ~ — et ime
peiiat aman terms ee an ~~ a —_ = ~ = = = ne med —
Poa a ey — —_- — — nem ee be =
a 555 < % x wit
aden, "Sais she 1 Syed 1 —"\ nt ° ue ae ek
Z ae ; = we or ~ 2 <=, al
— os ~—t —— a te wo > — 6 =
. Pr *
wee —— ——T _— ty — —. —_— _ - ‘
* a = ne oy ee =
—— — cess a eee | ae = wy > i
- > ee oe — ‘ ee —— es _- nd _ _ _ _ =
. 4 ' * = :
——_ a < y ed a a aki
—— “rae meee 4 eee iil Scan %
ae a ‘ at Y - fos > = ey x r
‘ema — Taine? sens —_ Led ee | =
= 5 ‘Ken ’
‘beck, et, prey — — ee, = es + &
= pere® : s? ne
— — —s , . _—_ Fae —_ -
es z of #
oe a ~~ ws et — -~ a ‘ ma
pater, es jw set, ‘poome nasil aoe ra cot _- e
Seidl. eae —— — — ow Sel ~ +a ~ ~ ae ~
: Z mee ~ = a ~
pry seal paced peel od aad Sova a os = -
Lo F : :
a: : . z : é
eese . rae! eae ri ‘ ae : = te ‘oes * . = ;
Yeselsd _— od — ——d — “ ——s —_ a —_— ‘
¢ = " .
=. . % Se. tick st
Rieeeag jpn eee aamnash, =e wa — ~. a — —— — ~ woes = 5
Ao Sea ~~ — es ate bua wis mage a = nocond ,
5 a : aS. * as
corer nate —: _ — — — — pene nats, wesid ae Sonat a - ~
— os — — ies apace! — aod —_ oa <a de ve = —
7 _ _ ao Awe? — we — — oes — = a
7 Sy .
ars on aad deol — poo oe <n oS a < .
oa z & =
wey : ‘ ~
—— - —- Sarat — ates | te oa oe — ~ 7 « i 7
iy am pe :
iy a — - ~~ —— ~ ~ —~ ; \ j
ws oy
Senet, | ee — —— — es -~ ~ — os
oT ~ a >
aoe Ae 2 Ad *% ‘i
| ad om nears — — = a . - ‘5
as caps , os a.
—h a — — ~~ —— pe’ pan oF, ae °
ast sat ¢* met nantl oe —_ sank af a, — pias. Bs = , ?
. == 4 a4 x
rN > © e i ? nat
aot ~ -_— Sates ee, _— -_s* —s a - — — ; 2 >
eS z “oe
ae ba as 2 al Si | po we See nw im ~ — a = mi
—

~

— “
—~ =
>, —
- a

_——_~

—~ —
« ———4

wat - a!

~
4 -
Ba ~—e ai
>
——
§

4 ‘2 Ey F" ae FS ” “d

Py

oy
dd
=
