a (a

So ee eee a chevy ean onterts (inSain Be Grhaiwtatalintetn tel
wane @ shat. Pena ne eM Putt oe ee tele ti-mate toviarie beets
sea tet- Puta WsP Pee asaed

Seepenees

tr gtetigadcsatea 8 hare we

.

Seine ceronasteaeicteeet on eae

Sparen Eterna
Se tae (ont |

-ws’ TY = , a 5 SS SUr= A nh eh KA, 2s Pr ye "=|
é TEN Seren > * wELE te vot & "
re “grew we rvvEVe OR ao.

a
. Th Behe bot ba . a “wv.
rary Rt badd | Aue o w v yt

— { ‘ Ser
aoheseeaetee? . AAT Slab Man stttyers Teale ea See "Wig My
: ty "Vony i Tae HE yy Bi be te vrs L ty é ' Vad, . ww

) ewe we a at ‘ge OT ~e Ay ae eee ja Arts, ee an 3 i
j ™~ i] Lop LA mee Lee Ay Wen y aie) ae oft Maney, NaN wT ay ™
Ay moe ial Ava mat ni ST LIALLE TL] the De
shh OE NA Pedy Henan nf ' TT
oo =

¢ Ve Ne Maer ty ree eeu 45-4 MS

es "y 3
we ss bs pains 4 is jen 4 wv Uv v
id Piel] ote Tt AMEN fy, ¢ AL Spo ‘ / . {r* =e \ t
TT dl Ln epi ltel al on ON eae i Leet Se
or OLE Rere acres Miyata el. We ann, Berm Lad | Ae Pe ry
j At ; on — ed by ret led po ni } rs a wv | - 4 R
CPM Lt v Ty Me dtodd Te ee een yel a ah
ley bs a tT we = k Ames . (eee he _ & j oT
bby re | PP Lek Nd adhd ei K aie Oa ote T+ rr sa {4 aT b ‘ edge vy
va] OU wha 24 ue? ww? _ <4 wt Le Te
re los ity ly Reta sper t y

M4 sg
: 4 j
OANA LULA TTT LA bana senane a
dee > ret | ers AAA iden Ne ies TW Dpsys pith! eepeeaaee AY user Mul

*
: Tt "ane ,
Oe ae Cele CSE eg tw NE FOUN ay,

> eo Ow. ewu
¢

hid pres SOS iret NY ay
oun. were NOE Wage ~_ os
Gy Wy 99u Tee) 4 < RE ONC Ne, | err guesses

q re jVoav oS, WS Se PN wUelesy! re Grr an, ¥*
NY { JUX wy J we bi ad v — - SRAY 0
Wa: S li aa ae ~ atti ee wd Jdbsee”s, sa . ae ve Le CI
hed JTF Wy See wo" Hieee Aad Ft
Ae LEE SUG ECeeee. Cue GUNeNe a ieleee v 8S,

+ 1+ L, LAYS 4a" se, “™ ald tehe hel vAry ee 5 Vv
PREACH Td | hedheh bai PTT LEELA HI a
CHEST ETE EE Diddd dta | eee We

we An Sues 3

by r “4
PMs y~ Sas anad| Naceantinnnnne haentay i) w bi bh hin wee Wott
Wii win Ut

wy
vg *v
csameroosu dia ADD)
N
stl line pe | || |) || FBS Ube:
atten nen wi we ne M N ww OA Seat AANA, eae
ee et 8 ‘ipsam nen: uugasell oll | aaa | vena eee c Jeay Vp ree ugveun
:  WTGS ‘ tt dbAAn_ Wht abd] x vat UT 5 Bes ALT 0 MT =
Miithan AS. EL ee caaeaete nivel eHntlt iit ON alee
SB ER ~ ey ye te SE re are t Si fae |
4 Wetteeratteten: ask kd BAS ey » TFS ee Es
wy © es fyty Pile eis wth, gine ae \ Ss ve. ww"
Nett sets enn 8b gSeu UNA Pipa eA ee “# Die at | ated "4 ver
po or ah 3 94952 FON Aigieshed | WA, d aan bone WN 4 oy ale . MA | peel | a5 Ss 88 ewes tagy 9)
cia yee MTP tel oee Aone ahs Fee acess rg. et 1) FS Me eit: ait “ te
4,4, | ITAA RAR RD PEN y fret’ BP ieee: bred Mbt lah
je Na oe othe dl ayy: Oe al % ieee vay ~
Fido an hy Pea Daa aye Vai | 4 “| [ek ess
nee kas y(rygt wits | | ee
art dod ~O dd | ‘ Vj
‘ft 444944 Fa qi’ ytey
RANT Neer tse eee ELenrH pl te a VSxyys
; pass. * a: PP DDD rt vi ¥ - “Yiu WweLes
nf Wiel bed oT VIE RU aa a mPa, ¢ At Yee oe Offi : “n w Eee .
= 4 \ « ys Sat a De wan 9 ,
aa a oe wu rwver wy Sven Pe a “illic By ¥y id Ve Cray WIN
iM MA. exeesgee srouy We re Ws Ny aes aan Ab
=) Fe tivwse- é; whes: AL ST veue? | oe ANG. ‘" hg ineoeeva We ASAT TS
! s : RRA a s\ 7) >: “RP at S66 ~ * “4
PMT dare o fe seuss ile’ rheayy Seer ery bbs | wv eee
Bed PL, Nyanga at 9jd8) POT Ay at inty HOI ak ihiheaa
s Jd dud ee Oe aN ae Thong Biv veOtem pee cree gee
PEA tty ah DUN yyy Fer My hacer ones
% a ts oS ee eee eel ly: tee (Otte CUs Jo getan, Sj adu ste” wre ~ Mia PSB
pee ans w . ry ar. | ; Be
vv Sin, woe : Wien Wek Ween | PTO NA oh * fis ee
Vator Meee mide Muse sk he ihe og? ce antl } Mad it 2 L } he Wages
ag ia AL ‘ » ORR wos ie eee . ad ab od 8 ¥y” Pate th ee $e Vey
ro he Neg ST te = MP
Berita ELL sae TTTAT Renee Aytyyy
ex Paani | | q s
Ma baka neh wauyes Wage ald poayat yen
eh 296 (' Al J
mi. , te al ree ie SEL AE |
iv ¢ ai re

eer ty
Apu goodly, oh

a 0 PEEL RE 1 »

1 v

‘ ots" | eee, | eer

IT * edad ah — res 1S

* | RRP

weve

2 ws Now OBy0
| wg
| 33 fw _ Saha ae Fn
*s 4 [Yr = ~~ ~~, ¢
lee Lee a
| ME th) Nu
a3 ee

|

y Ny
Wa) h

A
Tile
\

i hf »' i

» r >

/) SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS
ne VOLUME 77, NUMBER 2

EXPLORATIONS AND FIELD-WORK OF THE
SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION
IN 1924

CITY OF WASHINGTON
PUBLISHED BY THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION
1925

18 rig
Fy

had
a he

i

.\\ SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS

mH
= VOLUME 77, NUMBER 2

EXPLORATIONS AND FIELD-WORK OF THE
SMITHSONTAN INSTITUTION
IN 1924

ae,

© \ 4

aa cet hey

<2 WA TiO - Bust>-
eee ae

(PUBLICATION 2794)

CITY OF WASHINGTON
PUBLISHED BY THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

1925
The Lord Baltimore Press

BALTIMORE, MD., U. S. A.
CONTENTS
EAC CHG Mamet ena Meates os cides ca weet el oe oieie eles ho Oe whee emacs c Dede 2 I
Geological Explorations in the Canadian Rockies (Dr. Charles D. Walcott). 1
Geological Field-Work in Tennessee (Dr. R. S. Bassler)................ 15
Geological Field-Work in the Rocky Mountains (Dr. Charles E. Resser). 19
Geological Field-Work in Maryland and Connecticut (Mr. Earl V.

SHTeUTITT OT) Malet Men SONS (oho, Sect Wea nto SR Mas, 2c RMR: bes os ed aac a 23
Geological Field-Work in Nevada (Dr. W. F. Foshag).................. 26
Field-Work of the Astrophysical Observatory (Dr. C. G. Abbot)......... 28

Zoological Explorations in Western China (Rev. David C. Graham).... 33

Visit of Mr. Gerrit S. Miller, Jr., to the Lesser Antilles (Mr. Gerrit S.
ONT eatcae Ay tee Vopr, oc ers eh oxctcka ier a sear eeea ee Sas wobec ste Slay mr cache er ctahdneesvern enn lake 36

Experiments in Heredity at the Tortugas (Dr. Paul Bartsch)............ 43

Insect Collecting Expedition in the Pacific Coast Region (Dr. J. M.
PAU GIGIG I he oy ores Marsan arora Meh dats ere tneee 2 isa Oma Ee eo ote, wigrolere SIGISTE Ter A ae 48

Botanical Exploration in Panama and Costa Rica (Mr. Paul C. Standley). 50

Botanical Work in Southeastern New Mexico (Mr. Paul C. Standley)... 56
Botanical Expedition to the Central Andes (Dr. A. S. Hitchcock)........ 57
Archeological Expedition to China (Mr. Carl Whiting Bishop)........... 67
Ethnological and Archeological Reconnoissance in Arizona (Dr. Walter
[Elona a) Ree crate chaota TeRORe ke Dig RON TOC RO Aiki Oro Tari CISC inne eno iereas 75
Marshe Darien IBqorerabuivern (Mile 1 Oy IMEI Le Seon cooocanuaecauceoodnd yg)

Archeological Investigations at Pueblo Bonito, New Mexico (Mr. Neil M.
B) itil Clb) Mammeeeneetey sercpn eect yc oe Ne kop Snare CIN Aree eral Beet a eS 83

Prehistoric Aboriginal Culture of the Gulf States (Dr. J. Walter Fewkes). 92

Repair of Mummy Cave Tower in the Canyon del Muerto, Arizona

Gite Se Esaairs lpetelap Mottin) a usdchs aede, duce Coane ae aia ec Seton mtalaort tichstn le Rais, POM ov, cxoie 108
Ethnological and Linguistic Studies on the Tulé Indians of Panama

(ON Peed files 15 Fairies o¥oai0' 0) etc eierine DAS a moier Oe citi. COR Eerie ac one nner a oceanic 112
Study of Tule Indian Music (Miss Frances ID emmisiaaKorr®)) oe pasatwndesooe gece II5

Researches on the Burton Mound and Kiowa Indians (Mr. J. P.
Hela ita THOU yn arse eysuecgeveaeechoueiet shore wears eral o ator wiera os sd. ais. cts Ria tate Stelecalaraaes 128

Ethnological Researches among the Fox Indians, Iowa (Dr. Truman
IMEC aVET eva) Soe Aes clover Sis Pace a eetrcndedl stored a.cl oho ec PaO Orc Mee it rome Gee nee Rea 133
a ;
ib oe
Milrs f

Mt. (9070") Brachiopod Mt.

reak (110°) and Ridge Cotton Grass Cirque Tilted Mr. and Cirque Sawback Range Auth

Fossil Mt. (9665")

Red Deer ¥ nd Taker Creek T
Baker Lak

panoramic view supplementing figures 7 and It includes on the I fountain and th Cotton Grass and Tilted Mountain Cirques, Tilted Mountain, Sawback Range Ridges, and Brachiopod Mountain to the southeastern end of Baker Lake. (C. D. Walcott, 1924.)
vat

Aa
EXPLORATIONS AND FIELD-WORK OF THE
SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION IN 1924

INTRODUCTION

Scientific exploration and field-work has from the beginning
formed an important phase of the Institution’s work in the “ increase
of knowledge.” This pamphlet serves as a preliminary announce-
ment of the work along these lines accomplished during the past
calendar year, 1924. The accounts are written and the photographs
taken for the most part by the field workers themselves, and the
scientific results of many of the expeditions will later be presented
fully in the various series of publications of the Institution and its
branches. With the very limited funds at its command, the Institu-
tion is unable to finance many major expeditions, but it endeavors to
cooperate in this work, whenever possible, with other institutions, by
furnishing men, materials, etc. The many expeditions initiated or
cooperated in by the Institution during the 79 years of its existence
have resulted in many important additions to knowledge as well as
in valuable and instructive material for exhibition to the public in the
U.S. National Museum.*

GEOLOGICAL EXPLORATIONS IN THE CANADIAN ROCKIES

Secretary Charles D. Walcott continued geological field-work in
the Canadian Rockies of western Alberta for the purpose of com-
pleting his reconnaissance study of the pre-Devonian formations north
of the Bow Valley.

The field season was most unfavorable owing to cold and stormy
weather (see figs. 2, 3) that made it difficult and often impossible
to work on forty-two days of the season. Eighteen camps were made
while on the trail (see figs. 3, 10), and collections of fossils from
typical localities were obtained. Incidentally, the party succeeded in
getting a fine pair of mountain sheep and a black-tailed deer for the
National Museum. At a beautiful but stormy camp just below Baker
Lake the Lyell larches were scattered in clumps on the slopes a little
below tree line (fig. 4), and wild flowers occurred in profusion about
the small lakes south of the camp (figs. 18, 19). Mrs. Walcott made
water-color sketches of sixteen flowers new to her collection.

*See Report on Cooperative Educational and Research Work Carried on by
the Smithsonian Institution and its Branches, Smithsonian Misc. Coll., Vol. 76,
No. 4, 1923.

SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS, VOL. 77, No. 2
bo
Nn
ea!
=)
onl
4
ae!
ae)
Nn
e)
7;
al
>
Z,
x
al
n
ie)
)
&
iS
>
Z
ea]
ie)
Se
Nn
QO
‘e)
iS
icy]
12)
ar |
4
o)
Zz
dp)
-—
©
Ie

Bi.

Frc. 2.—North end of Oyster Mountain near head of Red Deer River
Canyon Valley after an August snow squall, northeast of Canadian Pacific
Railway, Alberta. (C. D. Walcott, 1924.)

Fic. 3.—Walcott Camp, beside Upper Baker Creek, a short distance below
Baker Lake, on a snowy morning. Eight miles (12.9 km.) in a direct line
northeast of Lake Louise Station, on the Canadian Pacific Railway, Canada.
(Mary V. Walcott, 1924.)
NO.

i)

SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1924 3

Fic. 4.—Outlook from camp east of Baker Lake. The Lyell larches extend
up the slope to tree line. (C. D. Walcott, 1924.)
4 SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VOLE. 7/7

Fic. 5.—Cotton grass tufted seed heads from Cotton Grass Cirque.
(C. D. Walcott, 1924.)

a A

Fic. 6.—Enlargement of cotton grass seed heads from Cotton Grass Cirque.
(C. D. Walcott. 1024.)
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1924

2

NO.

(

PZOI ‘WAOOTeM

a:

©)

‘JYBI4 dy} UO Ssauo}soUt] [Io

uRIUOAIG [e}UOZIIOY ysulese dn poy} UoTeUIO, YOM

AT ueliquesy JoddqQ peuinydg ‘anbiro oy} FO pkey IY} IeoU Souloj}soUT|
sog ay} JO e}eys URLIquieD JoddAq YM onbsrdy ureyunOW Pe}! L—4

oy

6 SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VOL 7/7.

The main objective was to find fossils in the great Lyell lime-
stone * in order to determine its position in the scheme of classifica-
tion. Many attempts have been made during the past six years, but
without success, as the thick-bedded, coarse magnesian limestones
were uniformly unfossiliferous except for the presence of a few

Fic. 8.—Tilted Mountain Falls, west foot of Tilted Mountain and north-
east of Lake Louise Station, on the Canadian Pacific Railway, Alberta.
Water flowing over thick-bedded magnesian Upper Cambrian Lyell lime-
stones. (C. D. Walcott, 1924.)

casts of worm trails and the cylindrical structures supposedly built
up by the secretions of algal growth, both of which may occur in
sedimentary formations from the pre-Cambrian to the present day.
In measuring a section from Fossil Mountain (fig. 1) eastward
into Oyster Mountain, the Lyell limestones were found to form the
main north and south ridge, and in two large, glacial cirques cutting

*Smithsonian Misc. Coll., Vol. 72, No. 1, 1920, p. 15.
INO 22 SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1924 i

deep into the ridge, the base of the Lyell was uncovered (fig. 1),
as well as the oolitic limestones and shales of the Bosworth forma-
tion* that are so finely exposed in Mt. Bosworth on the Conti-
nental Divide above Kicking Horse Pass near Wapta Lake. The
most northern cirque was named Cotton Grass from the presence of
large areas of the beautiful cotton grass tufted seed heads (figs.
5, 6). The southern cirque (fig. 7) almost cuts through Tilted
Mountain and bears its name. Mountain sheep have a trail up the

Fic. 9.—Rocky Mountains Park warden cabin, on Panther River, opposite
the mouth of Snow Creek. (C. D. Walcott, 1924.)

cirque and over into Douglas Lake Canyon valley and onto the north-
ern ice and snow fields of Bonnet Peak. In figure 7 the Lyell lime-
stones, with the more readily eroded Bosworth beds below, were
pushed eastward and the latter are tilted up against the horizontally-
bedded massive Devonian limestones, forming the broadly and
smoothly rounded mountain at the head of the cirque. We followed
the brook running out of the little glacial lake in the bottom of the
cirque in its course westward over the ledges of Lyell limestones to
the falls, where it slides and falls into the canyon valley of upper
Baker Creek (fig. 8) but everywhere the same hard, thick-bedded,

*Smithsonian Misc. Coll., Vol. 53, No. 5, 1908, p. 205.
8 SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VOL iy,

light gray limestone extended in all directions until near the edge of
the sloping cliffs above the canyon valley, where long narrow strips
of trees and grass covered spaces occurred between the north and
south ledges. Another approach was made from the south side of
the brook, and an outcrop of a few thin layers of bluish-gray lime-
stone was encountered on a small, rounded, glaciated ridge of the

Fic. 10.—Camp on north slope of Burgess Pass, B. C., from which the
Burgess shale quarry was worked for several years. This is a typical camp
where grass for horses, firewood and water are close at hand. (C. D.
Walcott, 1924.)

magnesian Lyell limestone. These bluish-gray layers were interbedded
in the Lyell, and contained fragments of Upper Cambrian trilobites.
Returning another day, the thin band of bluish-gray limestone was
traced to the brook and in a small narrow canyon two bands of shate
and bluish-gray limestone were found a little lower in the section.
The lowest band was rich in fragments of trilobites that later were
found to be closely related to Upper Cambrian Franconia trilobites
1924

<PLORATIONS,

q

SMITHSONIAN

N

NO.

(F261 ooe AA “A Ase “S4) ‘suor99
Aysed dy, “Yyao1D [Jeuuonjodjy Fo YNow svou

|

joo winasnyy [euone

“c

STIPH ,,

34} MO

|

aq JOATY I

aac P

N 24} JO} surys pue spesy dsoys suy 9014} Ul }Y49

JY 9} Ul Yor yes e& ye dooys urewunoyy

no4q
Sint Sl

A

Td

VOL.

SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS

10

‘} ony ‘Mara oIweIOURd ay} FO Fey Io] Ud pue tz61 ul poipn
SSBID U0}}0D JO apis YOU ay} PUB OPIAIC] 4994) Jayeq-leaq, pe
Ue |UOAaG YfAOMSOG 1}2Aq

“e1oUed ay} Aq Uses SB JoJOeIBYI SH So}e44SNI]T
js pue poinsvat seM UOT}IeS STUY L ‘a8pry yeeg 10}sAQ ‘ondary
Y_ Ssosse UleJUNOY [ISSO FO WOHIES yeMUIeIdeIqN— EI “OT

(suo) UeIyYueZO UBIDIAOPJO

N
-
SY)

wy

(wW ¢yZ2) ,0006
espiy 4eed 42a3shQ

-WOAI] 94} UO sayeys Apues uevriquie)-o1d yea URSIUIIe}G 94}

aPIAIG 42e49
4ayeg-4199q peYy

suo #o eseg >

(w g'276Z),SS96
UTA [18S

*SoUO}SOUN] UPI
jo Sursnsyj-19A0 94} pue eyesys IY} FO uonisod 9y} Ssuryersnyy!

(Si ‘Sy das) UrezyWNOTY [Isso pue xed UBSIUIe}G Ul SUTIINIIO SUOT eULIOS [eo1soj0as ay} JO WOT}DeS osneUUeIseIq—ceI “OI

UCIYIEZO LEER SSEESLAZ Ze
Ne ee. SSELEELEILLEE

<E ZN
uissoy) <I
UBIUOAS fal <gagpy

Uf) |!SSO4

71084 S044 H10e4

FECES SEARO RERSE OER SF
Fe: A Pm

HC
j
Mir
”
i
y

ui

’
od
i
f
.
n
n
i
un
+ \
fi
i
iy
i
i
1

es
Neeae

Aaa
rio

7
Pail

mh
a
it Lai

Section Mt. (go000’'+)

£

Fic. 14.—Cliffs on the north side of the Upper Clearwater River, in which the pre-Devonian section is similar to that of Fossil Mountain. D = Devonian, S = Sarbach of the Ordovician, M Mons of Ozarkian, and I Lyell of Upy ( bri Cc. D. Wal
,* S ’ avi « « , € 0 per am an ( alicott, 1924 )

Brachiopod Mt, Ptarmigan Peak (10,070') ossil Mt. (9066s

great mass of limestone that has broken

with a g

in the center, and on the left the end of Brachiopod Mountain

(C. D. Walcott, 1924.)

Fic. 15—Panoramic view of east and south face of Fossil Mountain; on the right Ptarmigan Peak with its basal beds thrust over onto the limestones of Fossil Mountain
away from the mountain. Baker Lake in central foreground is 8 miles (12.9 km.) east of Lake Louise Station.
NO. 2 SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1924 II

from Wisconsin, and the fauna of the upper band was found to be
of the same type as the fauna of the St. Lawrence member of the
Trempealeau formation of Wisconsin. With these two faunules
definitely located in the upper portion of the Lyell limestones, we now
know that the latter are of Upper Cambrian age, and thus is brought
to a successful conclusion a search conducted for four field seasons

c
LP

G00:

Uae: HE

A&A

20j 20 i

Fic. 16.—Diagrammatic section of the Upper Lyell at Tilted Mountain Falls
(see fig. 8). 1*—Arenaceous beds at contact of Lyell and Mons formations;
1°, 1°, 1*-', gray magnesian limestones; 1°, 1°, 1", fossiliferous bands of shale
and gray limestone. (C. D. Walcott, 10924.)

Baker Creek

Mons

Fic. 17..-Diagrammatic section of Tilted Mountain interpreting the geologic
structure, as shown by fig. 7. (C. D. Walcott, 1924.)

to determine the position of Lyell limestones in the Upper Cam-
brian series of the Canadian Rockies.

With the Lyell question out of the way, further collections were
made from the Ozarkian upper Mons limestones of Fossil Mountain
before going to Wild Flower Canyon. The latter is referred to in
the account of exploration in 1921.’ It heads on Johnston Creek Pass
and extends in a northwesterly direction to where it joins Baker
Creek Canyon. The gray limestones of the Mons formations form
the high ridge on its northeast side and in these were collected many

* Smithsonian Misc. Coll., Vol. 72, No. 15, 1922, pp. 8, 9.
12 SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VOL. 77

¢ Z * 3 y i we sa 3 *
“ti, ‘ ae # el > * = S
‘ . oS ws sy Pas, a be. %
. a B

oy (fs.. 3 Ue te, 2 ES Me SN a ah

Fic. 18.—Arrow-leaved Coltsfoot (Petasites sagittata) from Burgess Pass,
British Columbia. (Mrs. Mary V. Walcott, 1924.)

Fic. 19—Sweet Androsace (Androsace carinata) from Baker Lake, Alberta.
(Mrs. Mary V. Walcott, 1924.)
NO: 2 SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1924 83

specimens of the upper Mons faunules, Early in September, the party
crossed to the head of the Red Deer River and followed it down to
where it breaks through the eastward-facing cliffs of Devonian lime-
stone which have been thrust eastward over onto the sandstones,
shales and limestones of the Cretaceous formations of the “ foot-
hills.” It was expected to secure some fine photographs of interesting
structural geology but the continuous cloudy and rainy weather pre-
vented. On the ridge between the Red Deer and Panther Rivers at
Snow Creek (fig. 9) a very fine pair of sheep was obtained and

Fic. 20.—Cricket, faithful 21-
year-old saddle horse, the wis-
est one of the bunch of horses.
She is waiting for a crust of
bread. (C. D. W.)

unusually fine trout were caught below Eagle Pass north of the Red
Deer River, also in Baker Creek earlier in the season. As hunting and
fishing are only incidental to the geological work and Mrs. Walcott’s
wild flower studies, it is only on rainy days or after the day’s work is
over that the men indulge in sport. At a “lick” beside the Red Deer
River, many mountain sheep were seen (fig. 11) and on the trail,
moose, deer, goats, and smaller mammals were met with, especially
about Baker Lake and in the Red Deer Canyon.

Some progress has been made the past eight field seasons towards
a better understanding of the pre-Devonian geological formations and

2
14 SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VOLE 77.

their contained faunas in the Canadian Rockies, but there is a great
opportunity for the young, vigorous geologist and paleontologist to
add to knowledge of them for many years to come, especially between
the Canadian Pacific Railway and the Arctic Ocean.

A an tek aa i
ASRS Rl mae athens

eres Meee,
“ta,
%,
.
\

Fic. 21.—Kainella billingsi (Walcott). This large, fine trilobite loses its
former generic name H'ungata, as a species referred to Hungaia was published
ina list of Upper Cambrian fossils in I9I14 as Hungata magnificus Billings.”
The genus Kainella is now proposed with the species billingst Walcott as the
genotype. Other species occur that will be described in a subsequent paper. The
name Kainella is derived from Mount Kain (09,3092 feet, 2,862.7 m.), which was
named after Conrad Kain, a noted Swiss guide and Alpine climber. It is located
southeast of Billings Butte and Robson Peak, British Columbia, Canada.

As in previous years, assistance was freely given by Commissioner
J. B. Harkin and the members of the Canadian National Parks Serv-
ice, and the officials and employees of the Canadian Pacific Railway.
The expedition was greatly aided by grants from the O. C. Marsh
and Joseph Henry endowment funds’ of the National Academy of
Sciences.

* Smithsonian Misc. Coll., Vol. 75, No. 1, 1924, p. 37, fig. 7, p. 38.

nilvoc: cits Vol 57; INO. 134 tor4ep. 35ie
NO.

iN)

SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1924 15

GEOLOGICAL FIELD-WORK IN TENNESSEE

In the field season of 1924, R. S. Bassler, curator of paleontology,
U. S. National Museum, continued geologic work in Tennessee
commenced several years ago in cooperation with the Geological
Survey of Tennessee under the direction of State Geologist Wilbur A.
Nelson. In previous seasons the geology and paleontology of the
Central Basin were studied, followed in 1923 by an investigation
of the eastern portion of the surrounding Highland Rim. In 1924
the Highland Rim work was carried northward to the Kentucky-
Tennessee boundary where an area of about 125 square miles com-
prised in the Lillydale quadrangle of the Cumberland River district
was mapped in detail. The primary object of this mapping was an
economic one for the geologic structure of the region gives it oil
possibilities. This area is far from railroad facilities and transporta-
tion is by the Cumberland River, when high enough, automobile some-
times, but most often by horseback. The method of transporting
gasoline is shown in figure 22.

The Highland Rim of Tennessee is the plateau area averaging a
thousand feet elevation surrounding the Central Basin. It is usually
so flat that the underlying rocks are seldom exposed but in the Lilly-
dale quadrangle the Cumberland River and its tributaries have cut
so deeply into the Rim that the topography is very rough and the
strata are exposed at frequent intervals. Here the exposed strata
range in age from the Catheys (Trenton) limestone of the Middle
Ordovician to the Cypress sandstone of the Chester group near the
close of the Mississippian. The Catheys limestone and the succeeding
Leipers limestone of Upper Ordovician age are followed directly by
the Chattanooga black shale of Early Mississippian time, all Silurian
and Devonian strata being absent. The black shale formation is only
20 feet thick in this area but it is so widely distributed that the geo-
logic structure of the region is best determined by its outcrops. All
of the strata here are essentially horizontal, but by plotting the eleva-
tion above sea level of the base of this black shale from outcrop to
outcrop and connecting the places of equal elevation, thereby forming
a structure contour map, no less than 20 small but distinct dome-like
uplifts were discovered in this quadrangle alone. The formations
above and below the black shale exhibit this same structure but the
dip is usually so slight as to be almost imperceptible (fig, 23). Some
of the domes formed by the uplifted strata (fig. 24) are known to be
16 SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VOL. 77

Fic. 22—Transportation methods along Upper Cumberland River, Celina,
Tennessee. (Photograph by Bassler.)

tis dbnad BEE e aS

Fic. 23.—Slightly dipping Upper Ordovician limestone, Clay County,
Tennessee. (Photograph by Bassler.)
NO. 2 SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1924 Wi

Fic. 24.—Part of an oil structure along Kettle Creek, northern Tennessee.
(Photograph by Bassler. )

Fic. 25.—Drilling for oil, Neely’s Fork, Clay County, Tennessee.
(Photograph by Bassler.)
18 SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VOL 7

oil reservoirs and drilling is being actively pursued on such areas
(fig. 25).

From a paleontological standpoint, the Mississippian formations
following the black shale were of highest interest. Usually in Ten-
nessee the rather unfossiliferous Fort Payne chert of Keokuk age
succeeds the Chattanooga black shale but in parts of the Lillydale
quadrangle two intervening formations were discovered. These were:
first, the Ridgetop shale of Kinderhook age reaching a thickness of
200 feet, and second, the richly fossiliferous New Providence shale

Fic. 26.—Batocrinus springeranus Bassler, a new species from the Lower
Keokuk, Overton County, Tennessee; slightly less than natural size. (Pho-
tograph by Bassler.)

of Burlington age noted particularly for its crinoid fossils. Detailed
mapping showed that these two formations were not deposited over a
wide area but that they occupied ancient embayments of the sea
surrounding the Cincinnati anticline. The succeeding strata in the
quadrangle are of Keokuk, Warsaw, St. Louis and Chester age and
show a more uniform, widespread development. The Keokuk lime-
stone, however, exhibited different characteristics from its usual devel-
opment in Tennessee as the Fort Payne chert, but the relationships
between these strata will have to be determined from future studies
ot a more extended area. Paleontologically this formation in the
NO. 2 SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1924 19

Lillydale quadrangle was of particular interest in that the basal beds
afforded a splendid fauna of crinoids many of which are new to
science. One of these new species, named in honor of the eminent
specialist, Dr. Frank Springer, is illustrated herewith (fig. 26).

GEOLOGICAL FIELD-WORK IN THE ROCKY MOUNTAINS

During August and September, 1924, Dr. Charles E. Resser,
associate curator of paleontology, U. S. National Museum, under the
direction of Secretary Charles D. Walcott, continued the study of the
Cambrian formations in the Rocky Mountains, using the Ford truck
and camp equipment purchased the previous season. He was accom-
panied and ably assisted by Mr. Robert S. Bassler, of Washington,
Dp, G

At the invitation of Prof. L. A. Keyte, Colorado College, Colorado
Springs, Colorado, the first stop was at that place and several days
were spent studying the lower Paleozoic beds along the Rocky Moun-
tain front. Under Professor Keyte’s guidance and with his automo-
bile, no delay was experienced in locating fossiliferous outcrops and
securing good collections. During the past few years this region has
yielded many very excellent Ozarkian fossils, new to our study series.

Work was continued in Logan Canyon, Utah, to ascertain whether
any beds of Ozarkian age, which occur 30 miles to the south in Black-
smith Fork Canyon, outcrop at this place. A snowstorm prevented
the completion of this task the previous September, but this year it
was found that the lower beds sought are not present.

Camp was then moved by rapid stages to the Cooke City Ranger
station in the extreme northeastern corner of Yellowstone National
Park. A most excellent section exposing most of the Cambrian for-
mation present in this part of the Rocky Mountains (Absaroka Moun-
tains) was measured up Republic Creek, south of Cooke City,
Montana. Cooke City is a small community which came into existence
upon the discovery of silver ores in the surrounding mountains. It
can be reached by only one road which enters the Yellowstone Park
at Gardner, Montana, and branches off of the ‘“ Loop System”’ of
roads at Camp Roosevelt, following first the Lamar River past the
Buffalo Ranch, and then up Soda Butte Creek, a total distance of
more than 70 miles. On all other sides high mountains hem it in and
since the ores have never proven rich enough to compensate for the
town’s isolation, the mines are undeveloped and the population is
sparse. The road to Cooke City traverses the best of the mountain
20 SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VOL. 77

scenery in Yellowstone Park. One member of the Cambrian series
of beds is always massive and since Soda Butte Creek has cut into a
gently dipping fold, this massive limestone rims the valley. Every
stream, permanent and temporary, falls over this layer, usually in a
very narrow canyon, adding very much to the picturesqueness of the
region. Indeed, Cooke City is coming to be a favored tourist resort.
Immediately above the massive limestone just mentioned, the beds
become shaly, and from these were secured an entire Cambrian crinoid
of which no complete individual had previously been discovered in
rocks as ancient as these. However, the fossils obtained from this

Fic. 27.—Jackson Lake and Mt. Moran. The Grand Teton visible to the
south. The dead timber along shore is caused by flooding when dam fills.
(Photograph by Resser.)

excellent section were few in number compared to what might be
expected from such a group of Cambrian beds, due to their deposi-
tion in shallow water. At many places the rocks are composed almost
entirely of fossil fragments which had been ground up by the waves
prior to preservation.

A brief trip was made into the south end of the Gallatin Range, to
secure a few fossils in order to determine the relationship of the
Cambrian beds present here to those in the Absaroka and Teton
Ranges.

Work was next continued in the Teton Mountains, which are in
many respects the most magnificent in the United States, rising as they
NO. 2 SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1924 21

do into sharp, steep peaks more than 7,000 feet above the deep
Jackson Lake. A dam has been built at the former outlet of the lake,
impounding the flood waters to a depth of 39 feet, thus preserving
an enormous quantity of water for irrigation in the Snake River
Valley, 300 miles away. The Teton Mountains, due to their rugged-
ness, and the extensive lakes at their base, proved more than ordinarily
difficult to work from an automobile. They present, however, many
interesting and some unique geological problems. This range con-
sists of highly tilted Archaean rocks on the eastern face overlain from

Fic. 28—View south from Glen Eyrie, Colorado, showing the strata
folded during building of Rocky Mountains, now weathered into upright
forms. Garden of the Gods visible in distance. (Photograph by Resser.)

the west by much less steeply inclined strata which include Cambrian,
Ordovician and younger series. A six-inch layer of relatively pure
iron ore was observed near the base of the Cambrian series. At all
points in the range visited this season it was found that the fossils had
also been broken before being buried.

The highway across Teton Pass, by which one leaves Jackson Hole,
going south and west proved exceedingly steep but highly interesting
and of great beauty. The drainage of Jackson Hole escapes through
the Grand Canyon of the Snake River, cut more than a half mile
deep into the mountain wall closing in the south end of the valley, for
which reason the road cannot follow along it.
VOL. 77

S COLLECTIONS

r
)

SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOU

(‘19ssayy
Aq ydeisojoyg) ‘suohued ya01d9 MOIIeU
94} Ul SaUO SOUT] UelIquIe) dAISseUL 94}
jo doiojno oNsliaj.eIeYyDy “euRlUO; ‘A}ID
ayoo) FO Y}NOs ‘YveID Iqnday—oF “oy

(‘tassayy Aq ydeisoj0yq )
‘URIYILZE) Japuleusat ay} ‘ueliquie) oie APM
-peOt dy} Je Spaq JO Joof [kIBAIG “SpUTAA 9U}
JO JAP) JY} 0} SsulIdg noyue;y WoIT peor
uo ‘UOAUR) SULIT AA 0} 9OURIJUy— "6% “DIT

i i UAL a) Re a IRR A

Ren)

NO. 2 SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1924 23

The past season was the hottest and driest ever recorded for the
western part of our country, in consequence of which snow banks
that had never been known to disappear, melted away. Most of the
mountain streams had little more than a fourth or half of their
normal flow and the roads became almost impassable at places because
the soil, having turned to soft dust, was blown away leaving large
stones exposed. Difficult travel was consequently encountered at many
places.

The latter part of the season was spent in continuing the study ot
various parts of the great Wasatch Range, to determine the stratt-
graphic position of the beds from which some of the earliest collec-
tions of fossils were made by exploring parties sent out previous to
the settlement of the country.

GEOLOGICAL FIELD-WORK IN MARYLAND AND CONNECTICUT

Mr. Earl V. Shannon, assistant curator, division of physical and
chemical geology, U. S. National Museum, made several short trips
into Maryland during the year to visit mineral localities in that state.
The most noteworthy was that made in May to Cecil County, where
several feldspar quarries and the historically famous locality known
as the State Line Chrome Mine were visited. Much material was
collected for study. The reopening of the Chrome Mine during the
war made available on the dump a quantity of freshly mined rock
and a fine series of specimens of chromite, magnesite, kammererite
and especially of the precious green serpentine known as williamsite
was obtained.

In October, Mr. Shannon made a beginning in the cooperative
work with the Geological and Natural History Survey of Connecticut
leading toward the publication of a work on the mineralogy of that
state. Between two and three weeks was spent in a highly successful
collecting trip. A beginning was made in the southeastern corner of
the area, including a visit to many of the quarries, mines, and road
cuts in Groton, Stonington and Waterford. At the Mason’s Island
quarry in Stonington, numerous pegmatite dikes occurring in the
gneiss were studied and some of them were found to contain notable
quantities of primary magnetite. In places biotite-rich streaks in this
quarry were found to contain golden-brown stilbite, and in one end
of the quarry a quartz vein was located which furnished associated
specimens of garnet, epidote, and stilbite. In Salter’s quarry in
24 SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VOL. 7

Fic. 31.—Salters Quarry, Groton, Connecticut. A typical stone quarry
like hundreds in New England, any one of which can be depended upon to
furnish much interesting mineralogical material.

Fic. 32.—Hungry Hill iolite locality, Guilford, Connecticut. The photo-
graph shows Messrs. Alfred E. Hammer and Warren E. Mumford standing
on what is probably the best locality for iolite in North America, if not in
the world.
NO. 2 SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1924

bo
cn

Groton, specimens and notes on peculiar diorite-pegmatites, older
than the Westerly granite sills, were obtained and other pegmatites of
interest were observed intruding the Mamacoke gneiss which is
quarried in the Goos, Flatrock and other quarries in Waterford. One
day was spent in examining the various outcrops, cuts, and quarries
along the shore line branch of the New York, New Haven and Hart-
ford Railroad from Saybrook Junction to Nantic. Another was spent
at the Falls of the Yantic, in Norwich, a famous locality for minerals
obtained early in the last century and but little known since. No iolite
nor corundum were found, but sillimanite was located in quantity in

Fic. 33.—The main pit of the mine at Long Hill in Trumbull, Connecticut,
probably the first tungsten mine of America. While never commercially suc-
cessful as a tungsten mine and the source of more than one “ wildcat ”
project, this is now a famous mineralogical locality.

a schist in a railroad cut, and plenty of monazite specimens were
obtained from pegmatite blocks in fence walls in the neighborhood.
The latter part of the trip was spent at Branford as the guest of
Mr. Alfred E. Hammer, who is particularly well informed regarding
the local geology and mineralogy and the history of mining in his
vicinity. In company with Messrs. Hammer and Warren E. Mumford,
metallurgist for the Malleable Iron Fittings Company of Branford,
many of the important localities were visited. These included the
iolite and garnet-vesuvianite ledges in Guilford, the jail spar quarry,
the spessartite ledge and other feldspar quarries in Haddam, and the
Gillette quarry on Haddam Neck, where many remarkable minerals
26 SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VOL.'77

were found. In Middletown the old lead mine, famous as a source of
metallic lead for bullets in Revolutionary days, was examined. The
Cheshire barite-copper mine and the trap quarry on Mt. Carmel
were visited, and the last trip of the season included a visit to the now
famous mineralogical locality of the tungsten mine at Long Hill in
Trumbull. On this trip the old Booth-Curtis bismuth mine in Monroe,
long a source of native bismuth specimens, was located, but too late
to secure extensive collections.

GEOLOGICAL FIELD-WORK IN NEVADA

During the four months, June to September, Dr. W. F. Foshag,
assistant curator of mineralogy, U. S. National Museum, worked in

Fic. 34.—Walker Lake, Nevada, showing the old shore lines of
Lake Lahontan.

cooperation with one of the U. S. Geological Survey field parties in
the mapping of the Hawthorne quadrangle, western Nevada, making
a special study of the mineralogy and ore deposits of the area. Besides
Paleozoic and Mesozoic sedimentary rocks, Cretaceous granites and
Tertiary lavas, the area embraced a number of interesting lake beds
of Miocene, Pliocene and Pleistocene age, in which were found the
remains of fishes, fresh water gastropods, plants, and the bones and
teeth of horses, camels, mastodon, and rhinoceros. A reported occur-
rence of artifacts in the beds of the extinct lake Lahontan, Pleistocene
NO.

SMITHSONIAN

EXPLORATIONS,

19

2)

=

4

Fic. 36.—Wind pot holes.

Fic. 35.—Collecting camel bones, Lahontan

gravels, Walker Lake.
28 SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VOL. 77

in age, was visited and examined in detail. Flakes of obsidian such
as are found in abundance throughout this area were noted but no
ancient artifacts or other evidence of Pleistocene man were found.

Some time was devoted to a study of ore deposits of the region
including those of the historic old camps of Candelaria and Aurora
and also those more recent. The mercury deposits of the Pilot Moun-
tains were studied in some detail and interesting collections made.
The quadrangle is unusually rich in minerals and much material was
collected for study. This came largely from the mines and prospects
of the region, but some unusually fine material was also recovered
from the muds of the “ playa ” lakes.

FIELD-WORK OF THE ASTROPHYSICAL OBSERVATORY IN
CHILE, ARIZONA, AND CALIFORNIA

The Astrophysical Observatory continued its work on the sun's
heat and the variations of it. More and more interest is being
expressed in this work because it promises to be a basis for advances
in weather forecasting. At first sight, the problem is very simple.
As the temperature and rainfall of the earth depend on the sun’s heat,
a change in the sun’s heat must modify temperature and rainfall.
Actually, however, the effects are highly involved.

To explain the matter briefly, there are always certain regions of
high and others of low barometric pressure. These are centers of
atmospheric circulation. The word circulation is indeed more expres-
sive than we often think, for the wind directions bend around these
centers of circulation. Meteorologists speak of cyclones and anti-
cyclones, meaning the great rotary tendencies of the winds over areas
hundreds of miles in diameter, associated respectively with barometric
lows and highs. Such being the case it depends at least partly on the
observer’s position, relative to one of these atmospheric centers of
circulation, whether his weather is warm or cold. For winds from
warmer latitudes tend to make warm weather, and winds from colder
ones cold weather.

If, now, the effect of increase of the solar heating acting upon the
highly complex surface of the earth, with its mountains, deserts,
oceans, etc., should tend to displace an atmospheric action center
(toward the pole, for instance) a station which previously received
prevailingly tropical winds might afterwards receive prevailingly polar
winds, and thereby be cooled, not warmed, by the supposed increase
of solar heat. Another station, a few hundred miles away, might
experience the very opposite effect from the same cause.
NO. 2 SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1924 29

On such grounds we have not to expect any simple or easy solution
of the problem of the influence of variations of the sun on our weather.
Apparently there is only one way to proceed. It is to observe dili-
gently and accurately for years the sun’s changes of radiation, and
then, with the basis of fact so laid, examine the behavior of atmos-
pheric pressure, temperature and rainfall at a great number of stations
over all the world, at all times of the year, in order to work out at
last the exact dependence of weather on solar changes.

This is a very large program. The Astrophysical Observatory
began with it in 1902, when it commenced to observe the solar radia-
tion in Washington. But the atmosphere in Washington was loaded
with clouds, smoke, dust and humidity. It was necessary to remove
to a purer sky. Since then stations have been occupied as follows:
Mt. Wilson, Calif., during summer and autumn, 1905 to 1920; Mt.
Whitney, Calif. (the highest mountain of the United States outside
Alaska) on several days in 1908, 1909, and 1910; Bassour, Algeria,
in summer and autumn 1911 and 1912; Hump Mountain, N. C.,
almost a full year beginning May, 1917; Calama, Chile, July, 1918, to
July, 1920; Montezuma, Chile, August, 1920, to the present time;
Mt. Harqua Hala, Ariz., October, 1920, to the present time.

During all this time better and better methods have been developed,
obstacles to accuracy overcome, and new sources of error recognized
and avoided. The body of experience which has thus come to the
members of the staff is unique, and a very great asset. There is,
indeed, the highest necessity for it. The results of Mr. H. H. Clayton,
who has attempted with much success to unravel the effects of solar
changes on the weather, indicate that variations of the sun as small
as 0.5 per cent, or 1/200 of the whole solar output, produce well
recognizable effects. Changes greater than 3 per cent do not oftea
occur, though once in a great while they go even higher than 5 per
cent. Observing, as we do, at the bottom of a sea of atmosphere,
loaded more or less with variable elements, like dust, water vapor,
etc., it is very difficult to reach a high enough standard of accuracy to
reveal surely changes as small as these.

During the past four years, with the newest methods of observation
and computation, our two observing stations in Arizona and Chile
each determined the sun’s heat on upwards of 70 per cent of all days.
Taking all fairly good days when both stations observed, the average
deviation of these independent measures, made over 4,000 miles apart
and reduced independently for atmospheric losses, is about 0.5 per
cent. During October, 1923, however, both stations reported almost
every day, and the average daily difference was less than 0.2 per cent.

3
30 SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VOL.

It would be highly advantageous to have another pair of stations
located, if possible, in well separated cloudless regions where the
months December to March are more favorable.

VARIATION OF THE SUN 1918 T01924
TEN-DAY MEAN VALUES

192 a A> MEMES OND : TS

194

192

T

__JAN,

AR.
PX v JAN. cen ; a aa pa Ty SEPT. axa ° UA AN,

196) Ay 1 A Nh et = aa

eM A A arn ARIEL
NE h eal)
1925
190

in

BE L

On the whole, the solar heat appears to have been continuously
below the normal for the past 2} years. Of late months the tendency
to rise has become apparent, so that it seems likely that higher values
NO. 2 SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1924 Gil

will soon prevail again. We had hitherto noted an association of
higher solar radiation with greater sun-spot activity. (See fig. 38.)
As we have now passed the minimum of sun-spots, and greater solar
activity is to be expected in the next years, the rising tendency of the
solar radiation is not surprising.

During the past year, the Institution has received each morning tele-
grams from Arizona and Chile giving the solar results of the preceding

TALEO
er
Pct
f oe

OLAR CONSTANT

Ss

Fic. 38.—Increased solar er ck. higher solar-constant values.

day, and has forwarded the combined result by telegraph to Mr. H. H.
Clayton in Massachusetts. Mr. Clayton has returned to the Institution
on the same afternoon a letter giving forecasts for the temperature
of New York City several days in advance. Mathematical methods,
independent of personal bias, show that these forecasts indicate some
degree of real prevision, based on the solar observations, even to
5 days in advance. These investigations are supported by Mr. John A.
Roebling. A continuation of them is intended.

Interesting results were secured in quite a different field. Dr. Abbot
employed a Nichols radiometer in connection with the 1oo-inch reflect-
32 SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VOLS 7 7,

ing telescope of Mt. Wilson Observatory. He not only could observe
the heat of the brighter stars, but, separating this into a long spectrum,

VAL AA
ASC 23nt ee
sl Ed

ca

|

=

Lt

San \ Seno
ae ae

CE ee
tl AT
Ses A ale
ARS AARES

SeVcere BSN.

PEEAESEY PELLETS Bins...

AS We Sa
Pa S|

ea AA PUES,
Ne a eee.
RE ESAGRE IEE ae SCes
2 SA GG SEAN = SOE.
ese EST OAT a oes

-CUCTECNCHPSSEEEEC RELL ERE
Gee guns (Su ceeETeneeauanal

ee ||
ry Spe
Wa ye - te ng th AL

Fic. 39.—Normal energy-spectrum curves and corresponding black-body curves.
Various scales of ordinates; two scales of abscissae.

he obtained fairly accurate measurements of the heat of the different
colors, and even far into the infra-red. In this way curves were drawn
NO. 2 SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1924 Bs

indicating the spectral distribution in the radiation of blue, white,
yellow and red stars, and estimates of their probable temperatures
were made. From these results and the results giving the total amounts
of heat they send compared to the sun, estimates were possible of the
diameters of the stars observed.

A summary of these results follows, in which the diameters he esti-
mated are compared with the values found in other ways by Michel-
son’s interferometry methods, and by Russell from photometry. It is
hoped to improve the sensitiveness of the radiometric devices suffi-
ciently to make possible a study of much fainter stars.

STELLAR TEMPERATURES, RADIATION, AND DIAMETERS

Midatnte | Diameter © = 1t
: Absolute N#
Star tempera Wiieait==tq2= || Parallax = eA Pe a aa a

LURES | Radiometer ares Russell
SU eo ae GOGO Lee | Wate Bans
8 Orionis ..| 16,000 | 3.20 0” .007 20. | 28.
GAL AO saoo|) IWKCoe | OROR |) 0) 2130) 2.0 3.0
aa@ankwe May.) 11,000) | 6.60 0) .370 | Tie? 2.0 Ese
a Can. Min.| 8000 | 1.2 Olean Teal | 1.6
a Aurigae.. 5,800 2.20 O07; | 1p Q.
GMail ss... 3\000 Bsay ||) Or .053 | 70. 39 he
Bubegasn s.9. 2,850 gill O .026 O4. 82.
a Orionis .. 2,600 7500. || O017 510. 280.

: 4 \f O .007 goo |

a Herculis. . 2,500 3.60 { 6 013). 480 } | 230

*N = Ratio of stellar to solar radiation outside earth’s atmosphere. _ 7
+ To express in kilometers, multiply by 1.4210. To express in miles, multiply by
0.865 X 108,

ZOOLOGICAL EXPLORATIONS IN WESTERN CHINA

For several years the Rev. David C. Graham, of the West China
Mission of the American Baptist Foreign Mission Society, has been
collecting natural history material in the vicinity of his station at
Suifu, in the province of Szechuen, and sending his specimens to the
U.S. National Museum. At times his activities have led him further
afield, and last year (1923) he conducted a successful trip to Tatsienlu,
a locality several days’ journey to the northwest of Suifu.

Tatsienlu is an important spot for naturalists through being the
type locality for many species brought to light by earlier travellers.
It was visited by the Abbé Armand David about the year 1869, by
‘Prince Henri d’Orleans in 1890, and by A. E. Pratt in the same year,
followed in 1894 by a Russian explorer, G. Potanin. Ernest H. Wilson
34 SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VOL 77;

and W. R. Zappey were there in 1908, the former interested in botany
and the latter in zoology. In 1913, a German traveller, Walter
Stotzner, made collections in various parts of Szechuen, including
Tatsienlu and vicinity. The above incomplete list of visitors who
have made this place a collecting ground will suffice to stamp the
region as one fairly well known to naturalists. Nevertheless, the
locality was all but unrepresented in the U. S. National Museum col-
lections, and the material sent in by Mr. Graham was received with
no little gratification.

After finishing his trip to Tatsienlu, Mr. Graham contemplated a
visit to Moupin, the scene of some of David’s early work and also a
type locality of note, but the presence of bandits in that district caused
him to look elsewhere for the moment and he decided upon Songpan
(or Sungpan), in the northern part of the province, reasoning that
a visit to this district would result in the gathering of many species
not common to the regions he had already explored. This trip was
projected at the end of the year 1923 and began to assume shape in
May of the year 1924, when the Smithsonian Institution with the
approval of Dr. W. L. Abbott, transferred to him the collecting
outfit of the late Charles M. Hoy, who had been operating in the
province of Honan.

Songpan was first visited by an Occidental in 1877, when the late
Captain W. J. Gill reached it, according to Ernest H. Wilson, who
was there on several occasions, the first time in 1903, during his
botanical travels in Szechuen. Berezowski spent several months at
Songpan in 1894, and Stotzner collected specimens there in 1913.
Wilson writes that since Gill’s entry into the city “several foreigners
have paid visits, and missionaries of Protestant denominations have
made abortive attempts to establish stations there.”

While Songpan was the objective of Graham’s proposed journey,
it was not so much the actual city as the general region that attracted
his attention. He had heard that good collecting ground existed in
its vicinity, hence looked forward to it as a trip worthy of trial.
During the latter part of May and early June he made himself
familiar with the new outfit and carried out his plans and preparations
for the long, rough trip. The distance from Suifu to Songpan in a
straight line is probably not much over 240 miles, but by the route
travelled would be nearer 400 miles, partly by water, but chiefly by
land, and to keep the cost of the trip within his original estimates,
Mr. Graham planned to walk over practically all of the overland part
of his journey.
NO. 2 SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1924 35

Preparations were completed for the trip by the 22d of June, and
at daybreak on the morning of the 23d, Mr. Graham and his party,
consisting of several Chinese carriers, helpers, skinners, etc., embarked
by boat from Suifu. They touched at various minor towns and
hamlets by the way, collecting specimens at every opportunity, and
reached Kiating, the first place of importance, on the 29th. Frequent
and heavy rains fell almost daily, but the party succeeded in register-
ing specimens from point to point throughout the journey. From
Kiating to Chengtu Mr. Graham’s party had an escort of four soldiers,
and beyond Chengtu the escort consisted of double this number, who
had neither guns nor swords for defense; yet, withal, the party got
through in safety. Chengtu was reached on July 2, after daily stops
at small towns and villages. Mowchow, the next place of consequence,
was reached on the 9th, the country for some miles on either side of
it being semi-arid in nature; apparently for the time they had passed
out of the region of heavy rains.

The Graham party arrived at Songpan on July 14, after a strenu-
ous journey of twenty-two days. During his stay at this place, Mr.
Graham found the city was devoid of foreigners, and the native off-
cials would not permit him to venture out of its limits except to the
east and south.

In a letter dated September 3, 1924, Mr. Graham writes:

The Songpan trip has been taken, and we are safely at Suifu with 50 boxes
of specimens, most of which are about ready to be mailed by parcel post.

This has been a harder and rougher trip than the one to Tatsienlu or any
other previous trip. It is much harder to secure food and other necessities
around Songpan than at Tatsienlu. There were times when we could purchase
no fruit, vegetables, eggs, or meat. At Songpan it was impossible to go west
or north, where large mammals are found in abundance, so that the only
place we could go was east to the Yellow Dragon Gorge. Even there we had
to have an escort of six Chinese soldiers and had of course to pay all their
expenses.

Continuing, he writes:

The reason we could not go north of Songpan or west of that place was
that the Bolotsi aborigines are so savage and so inclined to murder and
brigandage that the Chinese can not control them and are afraid of them,
and the officials could not protect us in those regions. .... Just before we
returned from Songpan, the Bolotsis attacked a company of Chinese soldiers,
killed several of their number, stole several rifles, and drove the scared and
defeated soldiers back to their barracks. I have not heard that the Chinese
have dared to go into the Bolotsi country with a punitive expedition.

The catch of mammals is not large. We are very sorry about this. It is due
primarily to the fact that the mammal-catching districts around Songpan
36 SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VOL. “77

were closed to us. Yellow Dragon Gorge was a fine place for birds and insects,
but a great festival had just been held there, in which aborigine and Chinese
hunters from all directions had joined in the chase, and wood cutters were
busy in the woods cutting timber for the new temples that are being con-
structed. The mammals had been scared away.

In addition to the material collected on the Songpan trip, Mr.
Graham had native collectors at work in other districts, about whose
activities he writes: }

This year’s catch is bigger than that of last year. There are 50 boxes of
specimens on hand, and I expect to send them off by parcel post as early as
possible. Besides the 50 boxes just mentioned, there is the entire catch of the
netter Ho for at least three months, who has been collecting about Beh Luh Din,
Chengtu, and Kuanshien during the summer, and specimens now being secured
by two collectors on Mt. Omei, one at Shin Kai Si and one on the higher
altitudes.

The material obtained on the Songpan trip included about 5,000
insects, of which the two-winged flies and butterflies and moths
constituted an important element, many of them being either new to
the Museum or new to science. The birds, 558 in number, were
received at a late date, and have not been fully examined, though to
date about a dozen species new to the Museum have been detected.

About 250 mollusks and a lesser number of mammals, fishes, rep-
tiles and batrachians, earthworms, plants, etc., comprise the remainder
of the shipment.

ViSIT OF MR. GERRIT S, MILLER, JR. LO THE LESSER ANTE ES

During February and March, 1924, I visited the Lesser Antilles,
more for the purposes of vacation and of getting a personal impression
of the islands than with any plan for definite research. Two weeks
were spent on Barbados and a month on Grenada; while each of
the principal islands was visited for a few hours during the southward
and return voyages. Some miscellaneous collections were made,
chiefly of ferns, cacti, and lizards.

Much detailed work in zoology and botany remains to be done on
the islands of the Lesser Antillean chain. As a striking illustration
of this fact, it may be mentioned that, in a group of plants so con-
spicuous as the cacti, and so well monographed as these have recently
been in the elaborate work of Dr. N. L. Britton and Dr. J. N. Rose,
nine species (7 genera) were found growing wild on Grenada, from
which island these authors had actually examined only two. One of
the common Grenadan cacti was described in 1837, but had remained
NO.

iS)

SMITHSONIAN

EXPLORATIONS, 1924

Fic. 40.—Market, St. Kitts—mostly vegetables and fruit.

Nevis appears dimly in the background.

Fic. 41—Market, St. Vincent—whale blubber.

{
|
|

Fic. 42.—Market, Barbados—pottery.
SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VOL 7

Fic. 43.—Harbor of Charlotte Amalie, St. Thomas.

Fic. 44.—Basse Terre, St. Kitts. Lighters coming out to the steamer. At
only two islands (St. Thomas and St. Lucia) is the water of the harbors
deep enough to permit large vessels to dock.

Fic. 45.—Ruined sugar mill, Montserrat. Ruined w ndmills—abandoned
in favor of modern machinery—are as characteristic of the Lesser Antillean
landscape as the old watch towers are of that of the Mediterranean coast of
Europe.
39

24

19

XPLORATIONS,

1d)

SMITHSONIAN

NO.

‘

usples

“BOIUIWIOG, ‘Neasoy
J991}S—"LV “OI

Jeotuejyoq jAeoU

‘JL IBIU 9ZIS ISI]
0} UMOIS pey YYyM ‘sooty Auew Suly[ry
pue ‘vale sil SUISBIIDUT MOU SI JUSA SITY],
‘Cp ‘Sy Ul UMOYS Ule}UNOUW 9Y} JO aseq fo]
Jeou “Jetiasyuopy ‘JusA Ainyd[ng— or ‘oly

40 SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VOLE. 77.

t

feguse ‘ : 2

Fic. 48.—Pointe-a-Pitre, Guadeloupe. On account of quarantine regulations,
no closer approach to the town was allowed during the w.nter of 1923-24.

_
Ld
5

Fic. 49.—Bridgetown, Barbados.
NC. 2 SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1924 41

ae by: :
Fic. 50.—Avenue of palms and Casuarina, Barbados. Young sugar cane
in foreground.

Fic. 51.—Negro. fisherman searching for crabs, eels and rock inhabiting
fish at Atlantis, windward side of Barbados. The peculiar undercutting of
the rocks is often seen along this part of the coast.

Fic. 52.—Cactus (Cereus grenadensis) on Glover’s Island, off south coast
of Grenada. Unlike Cereus hexagonus, this species appears to branch
naturally.
VOL.+77

CTIONS

4

COLLI

fOUS

LLANE

MISCI

SMITHSONIAN

‘epeualr) JO 4sevOd YANOs
YO ‘pur[sy S.t9a0[4) JO as0ys AYDOI uo (snuo
-bpjuad Snasar0yjuvIp) snyeg—PS “oI

“YSIy yooF OF
SULUNJOD d]CWUIS SWUIOF JI S991} SuOWe SUOeNS po}do}
-O1d UL SUIMOIS Udy AA ‘Sotinfur 0} anp Apearys oq 0}
swises Juryd Sy} JO SulysUeIG BY, ‘BpeUsIr) ‘991095) 4S
aAoge []IY uo (Ssnuobpxay snaday) snyej—e€S ‘oly

wr.
ae Se

Y

NO.. 2 SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1924 43

‘Jost’ until, under the guidance of Dr. J. N. Rose, I “ rediscovered ”
it; yet the plant flourishes at the roadside within a few hundred yards
ot the fine botanical garden in the suburbs of Saint George. For the
convenience of anyone who might be interested in doing some field-
work on these Islands, attention may be called to the ease with which
they can be reached. The boats of the Quebec Steamship Company
maintain a service from New York to Barbados, touching at the
islands of St. Thomas, St. Croix, St. Kitts, Antigua, Guadeloupe,
Dominica, Martinique and St. Lucia, and remaining at each for a
period which depends on the quantity of cargo to be handled, but
which is usually from three to ten hours. As the islands are small
and the roads on most of them are good, there is usually time to
get a fair general idea of topography, forests and cultivation during
the vessel’s call, particularly when it is remembered that points of
special interest can be seen again on the return voyage. From Bar-
bados the passage to St. Vincent and Grenada is made by the Royal
Mail boats plying between St. John, New Brunswick, and Demarara,
British Guiana, by way of Bermuda, the Lesser Antilles and Trinidad.
There is also a line directly from New York to Grenada and Trinidad,
but this gives no opportunity to see other islands. On the return
voyage inconvenience may be experienced in obtaining passage owing
to the number of “ round trippers”’ with whom the boats are some-
times crowded; and for the same cause travel between neighboring
islands is not always easy.
The appended photographs show characteristic scenes.
Gerrit S. MILter, JR.

EXPERIMENTS IN HEREDITY AT THE TORTUGAS

In continuation of the heredity experiments in the Tortugas con-
ducted under the joint auspices of the Smithsonian and Carnegie
Institutions, Dr. Paul Bartsch visited Cuba from May 27 to May 30
this year, in order to add a spirally striated Cerion element to the
Cerion colonies established at the Tortugas. Thanks to the good
offices of Dr. Carlos de la Torre, of the University of Havana, he was
able to secure a sufficient series of a strongly spirally striated new spe-
cies of Cerion belonging to the Cerion johnsoni group at Mariel, where
also a large number of Cerion sculptum, likewise, though less strongly
spirally striated, were gathered. In addition to these, Cerion mumuaua
from Marianao and Cerion chrysalis from Cabanas Fort and Cerion
tridentata from Rincon de Guanabon were collected and planted at
the Tortugas. The last is peculiar on account of the internal lamel-
lation of the aperture, thus adding another element to our experiments.
44 SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VOL. 77

On June 1 a visit was paid to the hybrid Cerion colony on New-
found Harbor Key. This was found to be in a flourishing condition
and 100 specimens were taken to Washington for record and dis-
section. From June 2 to June 15 was spent at the Tortugas where the
various Cerion colonies which have been established there were
studied and new ones added. All the colonies were found to be
doing well, excepting that of Cerion uva from Curacoa, which is on
the verge of extinction.

Fic. 55.—Four of the six island groups.

We gathered a number of F2 Florida-grown specimens of Cerion
crassilabre, which show no measurable differences from those of the
check series of the Fr Florida-grown generation, thus again con-
firming our finding with the other races of transplanted Cerions, that
changed environmental factors have no appreciable influence upon
the Fr and F2 generations of the transplanted material.

A large series of offsprings of the mixed colony of Cerion casa-
blancae and Cerion viaregis (Colony I) were gathered and taken to
Washington to be carefully studied for a possible cross.
NO. 2 SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1924 45

New Co.Loniges oF CERIONS ESTABLISHED THIS YEAR

500 Cerion mummia from the point at Miramar, Cuba.
500 Cerion chrysalis from near Cabanas Fort, Cuba.
500 Cerion sculptum from near the lighthouse at Mariel, Cuba.
125 Cerion new species, young specimens from a little east of the point at
Mariel, Cuba.
500 Cerion tridentata from Rincon de Guanabon.
These were planted on the west and north side of the parapet at
Fort Jefferson on Garden Key, each duly marked with a stake and tag.
Our failure in the past to grow Cerions in cages at the Tortugas
caused us to try isolating them on little islands this year. Mr. Mills
inclosed four 6 x 6 ft. areas with a concrete trench, a cross-section

Gi

Fic. 56.—Cross-section of concrete trenches.

of the construction of which is shown in the accompanying diagram
(fig. 56). Two additional areas of the same size were subdivided by
a similar median septum which yielded four almost 3 x 3 ft. islets.
The simple trenches require each some nine pails of water and the
compound correspondingly more. Arrangements have been made with
Mr. Charles Johnson, keeper of the Tortugas lighthouse, to keep
these trenches filled with water. Evaporation at the Tortugas is great
and it will be necessary to replenish the loss of water almost daily.
For this purpose a pump has been installed in the middle of the
battery of islands which will make this a comparatively easy daily task.

The inclosed areas have been planted each with a Hymenocallis
plant and a few such grasses as are favored by Cerions, likewise a few
added fragments of coconut pediole fibers; in other words, all things

4
40 SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VOL. tga

Fic. 57.—Good’s pompano (Trachinotus goodi Jordan and Evermann).

Fic. 58.—A group of Grey Snappers (Neomenis griseus L.) swimming in
an aisle between massive coral heads.
NG: «2 SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1924 47

favored for attachment by Cerions. These islands are placed south of
the laboratory and east of the men’s quarters. They have been
stocked with:

I. 25 Cerion incanum and 25 Cerion new species

2. 25 Cerion incanum and 25 Cerion chrysalis

3. 25 Cerion incanum and 25 Cerion mumnua

4. 25 Cerion incanum and 25 Cerion tridentata

5 and 6. In each compartment a two-thirds grown individual of Cerion incanum
and Cerion viaregis.

On June 15, during the return trip to Key West, Man and Boy
Keys were visited. The Boy Key colony has in part survived the
burning of last year, but that on Man Key has again been burned
over and it is questionable if any living thing is left in it.

Thanks to the authorities of the United States Bureau of Fisheries,
some plantings were made within the compound of the Fisheries
station at Key West where our colonies will be safe from burnings.
Two colonies were established here on the opposite extremities of
the seaside leg of the grounds. They consist of 500 specimens each
of Cerion viaregis and Cerion incanum, and 500 each of Cerion tri-
dentatum and Cerion incanuim, respectively.

In addition to the work done at the various stations on the Florida
Keys and Cuba, twenty of the hybrid Cerions from the Newfound
Harbor colony have been dissected at the National Museum by Miss
Mary E. Quick, under the direction of Dr. Bartsch. These show most
remarkable changes in anatomic character. It is planned to make a
greater number of dissections of these hybrid Cerions in order to
determine the range of changes produced by hybridization.

While at the Tortugas, Dr. Bartsch exposed 1,200 feet of moving
picture film with his undersea camera, photographing denizens of
the coral reef. He took the precaution this year to place the camera
upon a tripod, which has eliminated the seasickness-producing effects
obtained during similar efforts last year when the camera was held
freely in the hands while working in a rather rough sea. The negatives
since developed are quite satisfactory.

As in previous years a full record of the birds seen from day to
day was kept and added to the list recorded in the past. This has
yielded so far not only a large series of notes on the avian population
of the Florida Keys and the breeding habits of local forms, but much
information on bird migration.
48 SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VOLES 7;

INSECT COLLECTING EXPEDITION IN DHE. PACIBIGC COASH
REGION

On May 31, 1924, Dr. J. M. Aldrich, associate curator of the
division of insects, U. S. National Museum, left Washington on a
western trip for the purpose of examining type material of insects in
certain museums and collecting the two-winged flies in localities of
especial interest in the Pacific Coast region.

The first official work was done at the University of Kansas, where
some types of muscoid flies were examined. Next, a stop for col-
lecting was made at Redlands, California, and two days were spent

Fic. 59.—Coast of Oregon, near California line.

in the San Bernardino Mountains with Dr. Frank R. Cole. This
mountain range is somewhat isolated in position, but includes in its
fauna some of the northern species of flies as well as some known
from Mexico. An entirely different fauna is that of the lower San
Joaquin Valley where the next stop was made at the town of Newman.
In this vicinity the dry weather had made the collecting very poor,
except along the banks of the San Joaquin River; but here some
insects of unusual interest were obtained, including one genus new
to the National Museum.

Two days were spent in the Academy of Natural Sciences in San
Francisco, examining types and assisting to some extent in determin-
ing material for the museum A brief visit to Stanford University
permitted the examination of some interesting type material of para-
sitic ‘flies occurring on birds and bats.
NO. 2 SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, I924 49

From Oakland, California, the trip was made by automobile to
Eureka and on up the coast into Oregon as far as Marshfield. Along
this route the extremely dry season made the collecting very poor
except in the vicinity of Marshfield, where the climate is compara-
tively humid and the collecting was much better. Two days were
spent here with very good results. At Corvallis, Oregon, some type
material was examined in the collection of the Agricultural College.

In the vicinity of Spokane, Washington, considerable collecting was
done for two or three days, resulting in additions of some value but
not of exceptional rarity.

Fic. 60.—Coast of Oregon, near California line.

Near Moscow, Idaho, the mountain locally known as Mount Mos-
cow was visited on several days and some important material obtained.
This mountain is the type locality for a considerable number of new
species of insects. At Kendrick, Idaho, the greatest rarity of the
trip was discovered, about 20 specimens of a fly which was originally
described in 1877 from streams in Marin County, California.

Two days were spent in collecting at Summit, Montana, and at the
Glacier National Park railroad station, a region from which very
few flies had previously been obtained for the National Museum.

The illustrations shown (figs. 59, 60) are from photographs taken
along the Pacific Coast in southern Oregon, where a very good high-
way winds in and out of the forests, frequently following the bluffs
along the ocean.
50 SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VOLE 7,

BOTANICAL EXPLORATION IN PANAMA AND COSTA RICA

With the cooperation of the government of the Panama Canal,
botanical field-work was undertaken in 1923 in the region of the
Zone by Mr. Paul C. Standley, associate curator of the division of
plants, U. S. National Museum, with the object of obtaining collec-
tions and data for a report upon the plant life, which it is planned
to publish in the near future. Part of November, December, and
most of January were spent in botanical exploration in and near the
Zone. Nearly all parts of this area were visited, and 7,000 numbers
of plants were obtained, represented by about twice as many speci-
mens. These collections are now being studied and have been found
to contain a number of species new to science, besides many not col-
lected previously in the area.

The vegetation of the Zone is typical of that existing in Central
America at low elevations, but it is here possible to study in close
proximity the floras of the Atlantic and Pacific slopes, these floras
being sharply differentiated in Central America because of differences
in the climates of the two watersheds. The Pacific slope has well
defined wet and dry seasons; on the Atlantic slope there is usually
plentiful moisture throughout the year.

Although the original vegetation of the Isthmus of Panama has
been greatly modified in many places because of long occupation by
man, and especially because of operations incident to the construction
and management of the Canal, there remain near the Canal extensive
areas of virgin forest whose animal and plant life is of great interest.
Advantage has been taken of this fact to establish recently a station
for tropical scientific research on Barro Colorado Island in Gattn
Lake, the island having been set aside for the purpose by the Gov-
ernor of the Canal. Upon this island, largely as a result of the energy
and enthusiasm of Mr. James Zetek, there has been constructed
this year a laboratory building with accommodations for students,
and trails have been cut to make the virgin forest, which covers
several hundred acres, available for study.

The most striking botanical feature of the Canal Zone is doubtless
the orchid garden formed by Mr. C. W. Powell of Balboa. In this
collection Mr. Powell has assembled orchid plants from many parts
of Panama, and he has in cultivation nearly all the species known
to occur in the Republic. During the last ten years he has found
over 300 species, about three times as many as were known previously
from Panama, and many of them have proved to be forms unknown
to orchid students.
SUIJA Uapjos YM uosustsd daap diy‘ ynq sed syed
pue sjedag “eolowy [esjyuad JO prlys10 ysouy sy} Alqe ‘Qu07 [eur
ro] -qoid ‘eory eysOd JO dATeU “DUDINOP piaj}4joQ—z9 “Oly ‘eoqyeg [JoMO0gd “MM 2D JIN f° Uspies PIyYIIQO—19 “SIT
wy

reve

. UGE Tia

SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1924

NO.

VOL..77

CTIONS

7

COLLI

£OUS

LLANI

SONIAN MISCE

SMITH

N
i)

(say[earyy zauory ‘py Aq ydersojoyg) ‘auospuey pure o}e10qeja AtaA Ay}UANbaIF are SIOpl4ss10d dy} JO
SIOOY II} YT, PAT] OF YOIYM UT soeYd [NJIYStap e suryeur ‘sjuR;d JaYy}O pure ‘sUJa} ‘SplydIO YIM payerodap AT[NJNeaq
St YO YM ‘pavAjyinod eB joe }ING 91e sasnoy Ueda [eI}UID []e AjteaNY ‘awWoY URITY v}sSOD B JO ONed W—£g ‘DLT

NO. 2 SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, I9Q24 53

e
} 3 ze
<F %.
mas
me

ae . is iB

Fic. 64.—Cattleya skinnerit in Costa Rica, one of the handsomest of Central
Amer can orchids. Flowers purple. (Photograph by M. Gomez Miralles. )
“(SaqTesAL ZOU) “IN
Aq ydeisojoyg) ‘BolIuy jeordo1} Jo sayqejosaa sejndod 9y} FO 9UO ST ‘sa]quiesal JeyMeaUIOS }I YSIYM “Taquinons

ay} FO aATRIOI & ‘s30AeY9 BY “BOY BISOD Ul (ajnpa mniyIaS) aoxkeyd oY} Surmois JO poyyey—S9 “914

MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VOL. 77

SMITHSONIAN

1924

SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS,

2

NO.

CSoT[P4lyy zauiory “Jy Aq ydessojoyg) ‘sasnoy jo
oul

Yonul st }Y SII oy} je sued Il

ey

"BOY RISO JO spue

[MO] SUR

BV

UOTJINASUOD

al

DATA

uOZe

yi

94} Ul pesn
JUIAIY IY} Suoye

M

HA—'99 “OLY
56 SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VOL. 77

At the end of January, Mr. Standley proceeded to Costa Rica,
remaining there until the middle of April, when he returned to Wash-
ington. Costa Rica is botanically the richest part of North America.
In the highlands, where the climate is temperate rather than tropical
and where there is a heavy rainfall, the vegetation is extraordinarily
luxuriant, and the variety of plants bewildering. Although large
collections already have been made in Costa Rica, it will require many
years of intensive exploration to gain an adequate knowledge of the
plant life.

Mr. Standley’s collection consists of 8,000 numbers of plants, many
of which will doubtless prove to be new. Special attention was given
to the orchids, of which about 1,500 numbers were obtained. These
are now being studied by Mr. Oakes Ames, through whose interest
the work in Costa Rica was undertaken. Of orchids Costa Rica
possesses probably a larger number of species than any other portion
of the American tropics of equal extent. Over 1,000 species have
been reported from this small Republic, and it is certain that many
more await discovery. While most Costa Rican orchids, like those
of other countries, have inconspicuous flowers, some, such as the
Cattleyas, are of unsurpassed beauty.

Visits were made to the Volcano of Poas, celebrated for its great
crater, which contains a lake that erupts frequently; to the Volcano
of Turrialba, whose forests are noted for their wealth of ferns ; and
to many other rich localities in the central highlands.

A short visit to the comparatively arid Pacific coast proved that the
flora of this part of Costa Rica is relatively meager and uninteresting.
Several visits were made to the wet lowland forests of the Atlantic
watershed, where the vegetation is even more luxuriant than in the
mountains and the species are almost equally numerous. Little is
known of the plants of the Atlantic lowlands of Central America,
although it is probable that no other region will better reward
exploration.

30TANICAL WORK IN SOUTHEASTERN NEW MEXICO

During part of August, 1924, Mr. Standley was detailed for
field-work as a member of the Carlsbad Cavern Expedition of the
National Geographic Society. This expedition, under the direction
of Dr. Willis T. Lee, was engaged this year in a detailed survey of
the Carlsbad Cavern, recently set aside as a national monument, and
of its surroundings. The cavern is noteworthy because of its large
size and lavish decorations, and is one of the most notable of the
NO. 2 SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1924 57

many remarkable natural features of the State of New Mexico. Mr.
Standley made a study of the plants of the plains and hills near the
cavern, an area possessing a great variety of cactuses and other
characteristic desert plants of the Southwest. Visits were made also
to the canyons of the near-by Guadalupe Mountains. This range,
partly in New Mexico and partly in Texas, has at its southern end
Signal Peak, the highest point in the latter State, about which it
has been proposed to establish a State park. The Guadalupe Moun-
tains are comparatively unknown botanically, and numerous species
were found that had not been collected previously in New Mexico.
One of the interesting features of the vegetation of these mountains
is the profusion of the Venus-hair fern (Adiantum capillus-veneris)
a species rare in the Southwest but here abundant everywhere along
the small streams.

After completion of the field-work in the vicinity of the cavern,
a trip by automobile was made to El Paso, Texas, passing the southern
end of the Guadalupes. From El Paso the route was followed to
Las Cruces, New Mexico, and thence over the picturesque Organ
Mountains and past the White Sands, a vast expanse of gypsum sand,
almost pure white, resembling great drifts of snow. The White
Mountains also were visited, and the road was followed to Roswell
and Carlsbad, thus making it possible in a short time to gain a
general impression of the varied types of vegetation covering a large
area of characteristic desert and mountain country of southern New
Mexico.

BOTANICAL EXPEDITION TO THE CENTRAL ANDES

During the summer and fall of 1923, Dr. A. S. Hitchcock, botanist
in charge of systematic agrostology, Bureau of Plant Industry, De-
partment of Agriculture, and custodian of the section of grasses of the
U. S. National Museum, visited Ecuador, Peru, and Bolivia for the
purpose of studying and, collecting the grasses. He left New York
May 25 and arrived at Guayaquil June 16, making a short stop at
Port au Prince, Haiti, and at Buenaventura, Colombia, and a stay of
several days at Panama.

The work in Ecuador was done in cooperation with the New York
Botanical Garden and the Gray Herbarium of Harvard University,
and these institutions shared in the specimens obtained. Therefore
in this country the collections included all families of flowering plants.
Several localities on the coastal plain were visited, after which col-
lections were made in the vicinity of Huigra, a town on the railroad
58 SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VOL. 77

at 4,000 feet elevation. Headquarters was then transferred to Quito,
the capital, at 9,500 feet elevation. The only important railroad in
Ecuador runs from Guayaquil to Quito, crossing the coastal plain for
about 100 kilometers and then ascending through one of the valleys to
the Sierra or central plateau over a pass about 10,000 feet. The train

oo EET (REY Sap eT

i “7% »

alt ad a
by oe

CMe.

Fic. 67.—Angel’s trumpet (Datura arborea), a small tree
about 8 feet tall with white flowers about 8 inches long. A
native plant frequently cultivated for ornament in the
Andes.

takes two days to make the trip, stopping overnight at Riobamba.
Quito is rather cold, but Riobamba and Ambato have a very salubrious
climate.

An overland trip was made from Quito to Tulcan on the Colom-
bian border, occupying about a week. Another trip taking about three
NGO) 2 SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1924 59

Fic. 68.—A country road near Ambato. A species of Agave is commonly
used as a hedge plant. Dr. Hitchcock's horse stands in the foreground with
a McClellan army saddle taken from Washington. The uncomfortable
native saddles are used with heavy pads of sheep’s wool.

Fic. 69.—A street of Lima, a fine, modern city, in which the architecture,
as in all South American cities, is essentially that of continental Europe
60 SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VOES 77

weeks was made from Guayaquil to Santa Rosa by boat and by mule
to Portovelo, a gold mine in charge of Americans, to Loja, the
southernmost town of importance in Ecuador, and then north through
Cuenca, the third city in size, and on to Huigra. A short journey of
four days was made into the Oriente from Ambato to Banos and
on to Cashurco near Mera. The last collecting was done on the great
peak of Chimborazo, ascending to snow line at about 16,000 feet.
Leaving Guayaquil October 11, Callao was reached October 17.
In Peru two chief regions were visited, the first being the central
plateau east of Lima. A railroad runs from Lima to Oroya (12,000
feet) and north to Cerro de Pasco (14,300 feet). This road is a

Fic. 70.—Atocsaico Ranch, near Junin, Central Peru. The ranch is on the
great central plateau at about 13,000 feet and is mainly devoted to sheep-
raising. The region lies above tree line, but provides excellent grazing.

marvelous piece of engineering, going over a pass at nearly 16,000
feet, and provided with numerous tunnels, bridges, and switchbacks.
A side trip was made down the east side to Colonia Perené, a coffee
plantation at 2,000 feet, and another to the Atocsaico Ranch, near
Junin, at 13,000 feet, where there is excellent grazing the year
around for 35,000 sheep and 1,100 cattle. Cerro de Pasco, on account
of the altitude, is a cold bleak place. Here grows the curious moss
grass (Aciachne pulvinata), covering entire hills with hard compact
rounded tussocks. From here a trip was made to La Quinhua, a gold
mine at a lower altitude, and another to Goyllarisquisca, a coal mine,
also at a somewhat lower altitude, where the collecting was very good.
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1924 61

NC.

S)

Fic. 71.—A quarry from which the Incas obtained stones for the great fortress
near Cuzco.

Fic. 72.—A portion of a wall in the great Inca fortress near Cuzco. The
stones are fitted with great exactness, but without mortar. A drainage opening
is shown in center. The corner stones are rounded and the wall slopes a little.
The Incas had no beasts of burden (the llama will carry 75 pounds, but will
not pull in harness) and no metal tools. Some of the large stones weigh
many tons.

5
62 SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VOL /i7,

The second region visited in Peru was reached by the Southern
Railway from Mollendo on the coast. The first day takes one up to
Arequipa at 7,500 feet, where a few days were spent. The second day
takes one to Juliaca, and the third to Cuzco. A few days were spent at
a new Government experiment station at Chuquibambilla (13,000
feet), north of Juliaca. This station is well-equipped and is devoting
its attention chiefly to sheep-raising.

From Cuzco (11,500 feet) a trip was made down the valley north-
ward to Ollantaytambo over a new railroad which ultimately will
reach Santa Ana, head of navigation on the Urubamba river, At

Fic. 73—Mules loaded with coca leaves at Ollantaytambo, Peru, on the
way to Cuzco from the lower altitudes: Coca leaves are chewed with a paste
of ashes by the Indian men to prevent fatigue. The leaves are largely
exported for the production of cocaine. The growing of the coca bush is an
important industry of the montanas of Peru and Bolivia.

Ollantaytambo and at Cuzco there are fine examples of Inca archi-
tecture, now in ruins, but showing the remarkable stone walls in which
the irregular stones are fitted with great accuracy but without mortar.

On going to Bolivia from Cuzco the traveler returns on the South-
ern Railway to Juliaca, there takes a branch line to Puno on Lake
Titicaca, crosses the lake by night on a comfortable little steamer to
Guaqui, and then goes by rail to La Paz.

Lake Titicaca, the largest lake in South America and the highest
for its size in the world, is 130 miles long, 3,200 square miles in
area, and as much as goo feet deep. The railroad from Guaqui
NO. 2 SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1924 63

passes over a high plain, gradually ascends from 12,500 to 13,500
feet, then abruptly descends into a bowl or valley to La Paz at 12,000
feet. It is a very striking experience to come suddenly to the edge of
the plain and look down 1,500 feet on the beautiful city below.

From La Paz a four-day journey by mule was made to the great
mountain mass, Illimani, about 25 miles nearly east of the city. This
snow-capped mountain is a beautiful sight from La Paz and dom-
inates the landscape much as do Rainer and Shasta in this country.
The peak is about 22,000 feet in altitude (6,619 meters) but was
ascended only to snowline, about 16,000 feet.

A second journey from La Paz was to the Yungas, a region in the
montafias (forested region) north of the city but on the Amazon
slope of the Cordillera. The trip was made in company with Dr. Otto
Buchtien, the well-known German botanist, long resident in Bolivia,
who has done so much work on the plants of that country. A railroad
takes one over a pass at about 15,000 feet to Pongo (about 12,000
feet), the present terminus of the road which is under construction
into the Yungas. Through the courtesy of the director of the rail-
road, mules were furnished for a week’s travel down through the
provinces of Nor-Yungas and Sur-Yungas to Chulumani and Coroico.
This region is the center of the coca industry of Bolivia. The leaves
of the coca shrub (not to be confused with cacao or chocolate tree,
nor with the coconut palm) are much used by the Indians as a
stimulant. The leaves are mixed with a paste of ashes and chewed.
The leaves also form an important article of export as they are
the source of the drug cocaine.

After leaving La Paz a journey was made to Cochabamba, a rich
agricultural district toward the east on the slope from the main
Bolivian plateau. The last expedition was made through, the aid of
the Ulen Contracting Corporation which is constructing a railroad
from Uyuni in southern Bolivia on the main line from La Paz to
Antofagasta, Chile, to Villazon on the Argentine border where it will
join the Argentine system. The road is now in use as far as Atocha
and ultimately will complete the line from La Paz to Buenos Aires.
Ten days were spent on a mule-back round trip from Atocha to
La Quiaca, the northernmost town in Argentina.

The return home was made from Antofagasta, arriving in New
York February 16, 1924.

The region visited consists topographically and climatically of three
main divisions. There is a coastal plain mostly not more than 100
miles in width extending all along the coast. In northern Ecuador
64

SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VOL. 77

So

Fic. 74.—A glacier on Illimani, altitude about 16,000 feet. Illimani, lying
about 25 miles nearly east of La Paz, is a dominating feature of the land-
scape like our Rainier or Shasta. This and Sorata or Illampu, 40 miles to
the north of La Paz, are both nearly 22,000 feet (6,619 and 6,645 meters).
NO. 2 SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1924 65

Fic. 75.—In the heart of the Andes or Cordillera Real. On the way to the
Yungas, a region on the Amazon slope north of La naz .ybhis/is; 10 the
montafia (wooded mountain slopes) and is the center of the coca industry
of Bolivia. Altitude about 5,000 feet.
66 SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VOL 77,

this plain has an abundant rainfall but becomes drier to the south and
in Peru is a desert. In Ecuador the chief crops are sugar and cacao.
In Peru the agriculture is confined to the valleys that can be irrigated
from the mountain streams. Here the crops are sugar, cotton, grain,
and alfalfa. The temperature of the coastal plain is modified by the
Humboldt current which sweeps up from the cold Antarctic regions
and the coastal cities of Peru are much cooler than those of the
Atlantic coast in the same latitude.

The central part of Ecuador and Peru is occupied by the great
Andes mountain system, the Cordillera. In a general way the system

Fic. 76.—A herd of llamas at Atocha, southern Bolivia. The Bolivian
plateau increases in aridity southward. The vegetation of the mountains in
the background of the scene is very sparse. The foreground is a river bed
that is dry, except after the infrequent hard rains.

consists of two chains with a plateau between. In Ecuador the plateau
is divided into several valleys by cross ridges. In the valleys at alti-
tudes from 8,000 to 9,500 feet lie the chief cities, such as Tulcan,
Ibarra, Quito, Ambato, Riobamba, and Cuenca. In Peru the plateau 1s
at a greater altitude. South of Cuzco (11,500 feet) it broadens into a
wide area embracing all western Bolivia, the plateau being mostly
12,000 to 13,000 feet elevation for 400 miles and more than 100
miles wide. Most of the region above 12,000 feet is devoid of trees
and the plain increases in aridity southward. The southwestern part
of Bolivia is a desert. The plains and slopes above tree line in Ecuador
are called paramos and the region is called the Sierra. They are
NO. 2 SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1924 67

subject to cold winds which make travelling uncomfortable. In Peru
the treeless plateaus are called punas. Many mountain ranges rise
above the plateau and snow-capped peaks are numerous. The best
known peaks in Ecuador are Chimborazo and Cotopaxi, more than
20,000 feet in altitude. The height and massiveness of the mountain
system in central Peru is indicated by the altitude of the pass on
the railroad from Lima to Oroya in the central plateau mentioned
above.

In Peru and Bolivia there is little in the way of crop production
on the puna, but where there is sufficient rainfall the stock-raising
industry flourishes. The grazing on the puna of Peru is in the main
excellent and large numbers of sheep are raised. In the valleys falling
from the plateau agriculture at once begins and crops of beans (habas,
the broad bean of Europe) and barley are first seen ; somewhat lower
are found alfalfa, corn, potatoes, and wheat.

The third primary region is the montana, a name applied to the wet
forested slopes of the Andes on the east. In Ecuador the slope is
abrupt on the eastern chain of the Cordillera and soon passes into
the Oriente or great rain forest of the Amazon valley. In a general
way this montana region extends through eastern Peru to the Yungas
of Bolivia. Beyond that it merges into the Chaco of eastern Bolivia,
which is a drier region of scant forest and grassy plains.

The botanical results of the trip have been very satisfactory. A
large collection of grasses was made, which will form the basis of an
account of the grass flora of the three countries visited. Already
several new species have been described from the general collections
made in Ecuador.

ARCHEOLOGICAL EXPEDITION TO CHINA

During the winter of 1923-1924, the Expedition sent to China under
the joint auspices of the Freer Gallery of Art and the Museum of
Fine Arts, Boston, carried on successful investigations at I Chou, in
the province of Chihli, and at several localities in the province of
Shensi. I Chou is built on the site of an ancient city, perhaps that
of Yen Ching, and while there Mr. Carl Whiting Bishop, in charge
of the expedition, traced portions of old earthen walls of considerable
size, lying to the southwest of the present city. To the east of I Chou,
groups of many large, uncovered mounds rise from the flat plains ;
these were inspected as were also some of the many potsherds and
fragments of tile and pottery found on the surfaces of the mounds
themselves. Later, Mr. Bishop made a survey of the locality by
68 SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VOL. 77.

Fic. 77.—General view of the Wang Fen Wa mound, looking southeast.

Fic. 78.—Pottery stove retaining traces of glaze; purchased from looters of
the Wang Fén Wa tomb, and said to have been found there.
NO.

i)

SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1924 69

Fic. 79.—Pair of vases purchased in Yii-ho Chén; said to have come from
tomb between Wang Fen Wa and the Hsiung Chia T‘ai-tzu.
7O SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VOR Iii

aeroplane, in order to determine more accurately the extent and
general plan of the ancient site.

In Shensi, the members of the field staff visited the Western Han
(206 B. C.-A. D. 25) capital of Ch’ang-an, securing sufficient data

Fic. 80.—Brick cist in which pottery was found; pottery im situ. Wang
Fen Wa tomb.

while there to make a fair reconstruction of the ancient city. In the
same province they inspected also, two large mounds of the usual
truncated pyramidal form, ascribed to early Han emperors; the
supposed tomb of the emperor Ch’in Shih Huang-ti (221-210 B. C.),
and the tombs of the famous emperor Han Wu Ti (140-87 B. C.)
NO. 2 SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1924 Fil

and his general Ho Ch’u-ping. The tomb of Han Wu T1 is an unusu-
ally large one, measuring 278 yards at its base and presents oppor-
tunities of great archeological interest, as does also that of General
Ho Ch’t-ping, where Mr. Bishop saw not only the well-known stone
figure of a horse trampling on a recumbent warrior, but examined
also several other partially exposed stone sculptures of the early
Han period. Photographs, and scale plans of several of the tombs
and temples in this vicinity were made.

The first actual excavation work conducted by the Expedition, was
begun in the spring of this year at Yu-ho Chen, about 17 miles west
of Hsin-yang Chou, in the province of Honan. This specific under-
taking has an added significance archeologically, in that it is the
first work of the kind to be conducted in China by any foreign govern-
ment in cooperation with the Chinese authorities. At Yu-ho Chen,
two tombs of the Han dynasty (206 B. C—A. D. 221), were exca-
vated ; the work revealed interesting data on ancient tomb construction
and brought to light Chinese cultural objects dating from prehistoric
times to the Han period. Specimens in metal, stone and pottery were
found in the tombs; chariot-fittings, mirrors and arrow-points of
bronze; one or two gold rings; cast-iron implements; a stone axe
and parts of stone doors and lintels ; a jade chisel; slate arrow-heads,
and a number of pieces of ancient pottery—some intact, some frag-
mentary—among them a kind of glazed pottery which, if it be of
Han production, is a type hitherto scarcely known to us.

In August, the Yu-ho Chen finds were exhibited for one day,
under Mr. Bishop’s direction, at the Historical Museum in Peking ;
between 5,000 and 6,000 visitors attended the exhibit.

In the early autumn Mr. Bishop, together with Dr. Barbour, pro-
fessor of geology at Peking University, and Dr. Tegengren, a
Swedish mining geologist, examined a mound at Peitaiho, on the
gulf of Chihli, which discloses evidences of what Mr. Bishop believes
may be a Han dynasty naval base or fortress; one of three which
are said to have been built at that time, and of which two only have
been located.

A satisfactory report on the purchases made in China during the
past year cannot be prepared at this time, for, until a more detailed
examination of the objects shall have been made, definite information
with regard to age, provenance and type will not be possible. The
purchases include Buddhist stone sculptures, Chinese pottery and
bronzes, and, among the last named, a collection which we believe has
come from Shou Chou, the last capital of the Kingdom of Ch’u, which
was destroyed in 223 B. C.

72 SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VOLEN#7 7.

Fic. 81.—Looking south from rear of tomb at the Wang Fen Wa, showing
portions of front walls, stone door-sills, and, above, brick cist in which
pottery was found.

Fic. 82.—Bronze objects from the Lei Ku T'ai; arrowpoint probably not
associated with interment. (Yu-ho Chen.)
NO: 2 SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1924 73

Fic. 83.—The Lei Ku T‘ai mound; Tomb I, ready for measuring.

Fic. 84.—Western end of Tomb I, Lei Ku T‘ai.
74 SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VOL. 77

Fic. 85.—Mr. Tung getting out pottery found in the tombs at the Lei Ku
T‘ai mound.

is Pie fs

Fic. 86.—Tombs I and II, Lei Ku T‘ai; beyond, barley harvest in progress.
NO. 2 SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1924 75

Important as the archeological work of our Expedition has been,
a summary of the year’s activities in China should include a state-
ment concerning the perhaps still more gratifying success we have
had in accomplishing what was the fundamental object of our Expedi-
tion; namely, the establishment of a cooperative agreement between
ourselves and the Chinese authorities with regard to archeological
research. This agreement establishes for the first time, a mutually
beneficial relationship between Chinese and Western archeologists,
which will prove to be, let us hope, a dignified working basis for more
enlightened scholarship and valuable scientific research in this in-
creasingly important field. The cooperative agreement between our-
selves and the Chinese authorities was confirmed by the unsolicited
appointment of Mr. Bishop as Honorary Advisor in Archeology to
the Historical Department of the Chinese government, and, later, by
the permissions granted to our Expedition, not only by the Governor
of Shensi and the Director of Education for Honan, to excavate
within their respective provinces, but also by the Ministry of Educa-
tion, to excavate anywhere in China,

ETHNOLOGICAL AND ARCHEOLOGICAL RECONNOISSANCE
IN ARIZONA

During August and September, Dr. Walter Hough, head curator of
anthropology, U. S. National Museum, carried on ethnological and
archeological, reconnoissance work in Arizona. Revisiting the White
Mountain Apache after an absence of several years, effort was made
to ascertain the present status of these Indians in comparison with
their condition and attitude towards innovations some years ago.
Measures adopted for the welfare of the Indians give imperceptible
results for a period; then the innovation is gradually accepted and
finally reaches the effective stage among the larger number of Indians.
In this way schools, hospitals, etc., slowly enter the consciousness
of the Indian. Attempts to hasten matters unadvisedly in the past
have resulted in disastrous failure, blocking the orderly course of
reforms. More basic and perhaps more important is the extension
of commerce and the consequent realization by the Indian of the
value of money, Last year two prominent Apaches occupied American
type houses. This step appears to mark the abandonment of the
miserable, unsanitary tipi of brush which has held back the Apache
during all his generations.

Among the Hopi it is becoming apparent that changes are in prog-
ress that will profoundly affect the persistence of this Indian group.
76 SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VOL iia

The young men are qualifying as artisans and necessarily the work
entails a permanent absence from the pueblos. Most of them are
employed in the mechanical work of the Santa Fe railroad. They

Fic. 87——A combination of old and new. Hopi Indian,
Walpi, Arizona.

receive large wages and are much esteemed for their skill. The result
of this on the integrity of pueblo life is on the eve of becoming dis-
astrous, as the older people are left on their own resources without
able help. This phase in the history of the Hopi was unexpected as a
disintegrating element. No one suspected that the Hopi would be
NO. 2 SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1924 Tih

caught in the industrial maelstrom, especially as the Rio Grande
Pueblos never progressed in this direction.

The archeological results of the reconnoissance were the location
of several hitherto unidentified ruins, notably a large ancient settle-
ment of apparently pre-pueblo age about five miles from Whiteriver,
Arizona. A careful examination was made of the numerous picture
writings on the rocks in the vicinity of Holbrook. Most interesting
of these depictions was a group of snake dancers clothed in archaic
costume.

Fic. 88.—Apache house, Oak Creek, Arizona.

On the journey Dr. Hough made a careful inspection of museums
at Santa Fe, Los Angeles, Pasadena, San Francisco, Salt Lake City,
and Denver.

MARSH-DARIEN EXPEDITION

Mr. R. O. Marsh continued during a part of 1924 his work of
exploration in hitherto almost unknown regions of the Isthmus of
Darien. A considerable party of scientific men accompanied the expe-
dition, among them Mr. John L. Baer, who was deputed to care for
the anthropological work on the part of the Smithsonian. The Expedi-
tion experienced a great misfortune in the sudden illness of Mr. Baer
while proceeding up the Chucunaque River. He was transported

6
78 SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VOL. 77

Fic. 90—Choco Indian man and woman.
79

EXPLORATIONS, 1924

N

SMITHSONIA

NO. 2

mee tere)| In L

© £9UIN}SOD DATIEU UT

[418 9[n LT,

ba 6

Cc.

sueipuy (se[q ues)

CHMAG

I— 10

1]

80 SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VOL 77),

immediately to the Coast, but the illness terminated fatally on May 28,
the Institution being advised by the Navy Department of Mr. Baer’s
death.

The route followed was from Balboa to San Miguel Bay, through
Darien Harbor and up the Tuyra River to the village of Real.
There a change was made to smaller boats and the Rio Chucunaque

Fre. 92.—Tule Indian women in native dress.

ascended to Yavisa, near which a permanent camp was established.
A visit was made to the Chocé Indians, who occupy the middle river
valleys above tidewater, and to the Cuna, who live in the higher river
valleys and mountain districts. The Choco have a local government,
live in large, well built community houses, and subsist on rice, bananas,
plantains, corn, and yucca. They are expert fishermen, diving into

oO
NO. 2 SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1924 81

deep pools and catching certain kinds of rock fish in their hands.
Their religion is a form of primitive belief in the influence of good
and bad spirits. Mr. Marsh observes that they are a happy, careless,
childlike people, friendly 1f well treated, very Polynesian-like, wearing
breech-cloths, but decorated with beads, silver earrings, and wrist
bands, and wreaths of gay flowers.

Fic. 93.—Tule Indian children.

The Cuna have a higher culture than the Chocd, are monogamous,
have hereditary chiefs, families have separate houses, and large houses
are used for tribal meetings and ceremonies. They raise long staple
tree cotton, dye and weave cotton into cloth and hammocks, grow
corn, plantains, bananas, yucca, coffee, chocolate and sugar cane.
They are adepts with the bow and arrow and blowgun.
82 SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VOL. 77

Fic. 94.—Chepu, Marguerite, Olo: Tule (San Blas) Indians.

TS OO ee ee

Fic. 95.—Along the Caribbean coast. Tule (San Blas) Indian village
and canoes.
NO. 2 SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1924 83

The party proceeded up the Chucunaque River with great difficulty
owing to barriers of drift logs, at last reaching the Cunas Bravos,
who were regarded as hostile. The Cunas Bravos are agriculturists
and exhibit a lower degree of culture than the Cunas of the lower river.
The chief of the Cunas Bravos spoke good English, having as a
young man shipped at Colon on an English vessel and in 12 years
had sailed over half the world. It was at this point that John L. Baer
became sick,

Activities were next transferred to the San Blas Indians, who
inhabit a long stretch of the north coast of Panama. These Indians,
who number approximately 40,000, have always kept aloof from the
white man, realizing that contact with other races would work their
undoing. Amicable relations were established with them and many
interesting specimens of their arts and industries were collected for
the National Museum. The San Blas Indians have an advanced
social organization, with a ruler who could perhaps be properly classed
as a king. Through the San Blas, Mr. Marsh came in contact with
hundreds of “ white Indians’ whose presence in Panama has been
known for a long time, but who have not been examined by scientific
observers. Individuals brought by Mr. Marsh to the United States
have been carefully examined and tentatively stated, before field
studies go more fully into the matter, to present a form of albinism.
Mr. Marsh states that light brown Indians having one white parent
reproduce white, light brown, and dark brown children. The San Blas
segregate the white children at the age of puberty, and from such
information as was furnished it is estimated that one thousand
individuals exist in the San Blas region. Mr. Marsh states that the
San Blas Indians are capable of assimilating the essentials of modern
civilization, and believes that these Indians should be given the
chance to develop without contact with alien blood.

ARCHEOLOGICAL INVESTIGATIONS AT PUEBLO BONITO,
NEW MEXICO

Throughout the summer months of 1924, Mr. Neil M. Judd, curator
of American archeology, U. S. National Museum, continued his
investigation * of Pueblo Bonito, a prehistoric Indian village in north-
western New Mexico, under the auspices of the National Geographic
Society. In these researches there were employed ten white men,
six of whom were technical assistants to Mr. Judd, and thirty-seven

* Smithsonian Misc. Coll., Vol. 72, Nos. 6 and 15; Vol. 74, No. 5; Vol. 76,
No. Io.
VOL. 77

MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS

SMITHSONIAN

io@)

(‘Aya1IN0G s1yde1s09ry
jeuoleN ay} Jo Asayanoy ‘susaefT “Dg ‘OQ Aq Ydeisojoyd) ‘stoping poaysueA s} FO SSuos dy} Suroysa ‘sown ye
DAT[V JSOW]R SUIaIS 0},U0G O[Gang ‘Ose 910 IO sed OOO'T JUIWIUOPURGE S}I 9dUIS DWI} JSIy DY} JOF posodxy ‘eureI
-oued SUTJEULISeF SOU B PajUdsaid SotieseA [BINJo}IYIIe pue skeMasessed ‘sadooje snossUINU Ss} ‘stoquIeYyD [eIUOU
-9199 OF S}I ‘SWOOL 1OOY-puNoIS OSE s}t YIM OPUOG O[qeang ‘suoT}eAedXI HZOI IY} Jo UOIsH;IU0D UOd]—'96 “OI

.
Se ee ee ee
NO. 2 SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1924 85
Indian laborers. The explorations of 1924 mark the fourth season
of the five-year Pueblo Bonito project, inaugurated in 1921 after a
thorough reconnoissance of the entire Chaco Canyon region.

During the years 1921-1923 the Expedition completed the excava-
tion of the eastern and northern portions of Pueblo Bonito. It is in
the former section of the ruin that those dwellings last constructed are
to be found ; in the northern section are slightly earlier houses erected
above the razed walls of part of that original settlement which pre-
ceded and formed a nucleus for the great communal structure now
known as Pueblo Bonito. In 1924 the Expedition confined its principal
activities to the western half of the ruin where rooms of both early
and late construction exist. From these much new data were obtained.

As one result of the past season’s explorations, it is now reasonably
certain that no more than two major periods of occupancy are present
in the ruins of Pueblo Bonito. These were contemporaneous through-
out many successive generations and yet one was pioneer to the other.
During the second period, three separate types of masonry were
evolved. The culture of the original Bonitians appears to have been
quite distinct ; the masonry of their dwellings, the form and furniture
of their ceremonial rooms and perhaps even their daily life differed
from that of their later associates.

In that portion of the pueblo recently excavated are to be seen
rectangular dwellings whose walls were constructed both with hard,
laminate sandstone and dressed blocks of similar but more friable
material. These rooms adjoin and even encompass earlier habitations
in which broad, thin slabs of sandstone were utilized with abundant
quantities of adobe mud as the characteristic building material. The
earlier dwellings were built on a much lower level of occupancy ; the
later structures are especially noteworthy for the perfection and
symmetry of their masonry, the trueness of their corners and the
uniform regularity of their dimensions. Kivas associated with these
latter dwellings are, for the most part, of smaller diameter than those
observed elsewhere in the ancient village.

Among the older habitations excavated last season were four rooms
which had been utilized as burial chambers. A majority of the 71
bodies interred here had been placed upon burial mats and were
accompanied by mortuary offerings, including basketry and earthen-
ware vessels. Such personal ornaments as were worn by the deceased
at the moment of death were not removed. Whether the burials
represent the first or second period of occupancy is a question still
undetermined. But a curious fact in connection with these interments
86 SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VOL. 77,

Fic. 97.—Dwellings of the older portion of Pueblo Bonito were characterized
by rude masonry, heavily plastered with mud, and by secondary supports for
the ceilings of first story rooms. (Photograph by O. C. Havens, Courtesy of
the National Geographic Society.)

Fic. 98.—Disturbed burials and mortuary offerings on one of the older rooms
of Pueblo Bonito. Prehistoric vandals had ravaged each of the burial cham-
bers. (Photograph by O. C. Havens. Courtesy of the National Geographic
Society. )
NO. 2 SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1924 87

is that most of them were disturbed during prehistoric times. It is
quite apparent that enemy peoples had entered the rooms and ruth-
lessly disarranged the bodies, perhaps in search of turquoise and other
treasures highly prized by primitive peoples of the Southwest. With
the cultural objects recovered by the Expedition are many jewels of
such exquisite beauty and artistic merit as to have proven entirely
irresistible to those aborigines not related to the former inhabitants
of Pueblo Bonito.

In the large number of earthenware vessels collected from these
four burial chambers and elsewhere two outstanding types of orna-
mentation appear. Although these types were frequently found
directly associated with each other, one is thought to belong essentially
to the original Bonitians while the other is believed more characteristic
of their neighbors of the later period. Chronologic studies made in
the two principal refuse mounds and about the outer wall of the
pueblo illustrate a gradual development of local pottery technique
throughout the entire period during which Pueblo Bonito was inhab-
ited. But a certain perplexity still obtains in the evidence relating to
this ceramic material. This doubt is due mainly to the fact that the
later arrivals were obviously the first to abandon the village and that
all serviceable utensils they left behind were subsequently salvaged
by those families which still clung to their ancestral home, the older
or pioneer section of Pueblo Bonito.

Several of the baskets recovered from the four burial rooms are
of types rarely, if ever before, recovered from prehistoric ruins other
than cliff-dwellings. Shallow, elongated trays of unusually fine weave
and deep, cylindrical baskets’ of rather coarser fabric are included
in the collection. In addition, there were obtained bifurcated baskets
such as have been found heretofore only in cave villages of north-
eastern Arizona and southeastern Utah. Three of the earthenware
vessels in the season’s collection simulate the general form of these
two-legged affairs of unknown import.

The Expedition of 1923 uncovered a puzzling network of founda-
tion walls on the outer northeast side of the great ruin. This series
was still further exposed during the past summer and it is expected
that the remaining portion will be brought to light in 1925, the final
year of the Pueblo Bonito project. The fact that these interlacing
walls lie buried under many feet of blown sand makes their exposure
a slow and arduous task. The studies already pursued in this area
suggest that these foundations were prepared, but never utilized,
for a contemplated and sizable addition to the village.
8&8 SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VOL. 77,

Fic. 99.—Pueblo Bonito kivas are always subterranean or surrounded by
walls to simulate the subterranean position required by prehistoric religious
conceptions. (Photograph by O. C. Havens. Courtesy of the National Geo-
graphic Society.)

Fic. 100.

roof of the subterranean room, 44 feet in diameter, had been supported by four
wooden pillars. (Photograph by O. C. Havens. Courtesy of the National
Geographic Society. )

Excavating one of the major kivas of Pueblo Bonito. The flat
to

SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1924 89

NO.

LESS
DP S83

wy)

Fic, 101.—The ancient potters of Pueblo Bonito ornamented their food bowls
with a wealth of geometric design. The vessel at the lower right is 63 inches
in diameter ; others in the collection vary from 2 inches to 13 inches. (Photo-
graph by Charles Martin. Courtesy of the National Geographic Society. )

&

G7:

dy

_ Fic. 102.—Pitchers from prehistoric Pueblo Bonito. The duck-shaped vessel
in the lower row is 54 inches high. (Photograph by Charles Martin. Courtesy
of the National Geographic Society.)
go SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VOL. 77

Fic. 103.—Cylindrical vessels bearing the hachured ornamentation char-
acteristic of the later period of occupancy at Pueblo Bonito. The vase at the
right is 114 inches high. (Photograph by Charles Martin. Courtesy of the
Nat onal Geographic Society. )

Fic. 104.—Water jars are among the rarest of Bonitan antiquities. These
two vessels are probably related to the earlier period of occupancy for their
ornamentation differs noticeably from that employed by potters of the later
period. (Photograph by Charles Martin. Courtesy of the National Geo-
graphic Society.)
NO. 2 SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1924 gi

Among the many interesting discoveries made in 1924 is one which
affords some conception of the community pride which prevailed
during the heyday of Pueblo Bonito. The two principal refuse
mounds, where floor sweepings and other trash was deposited, were
each surrounded by stone walls. These were increased in height as the
mounds grew in elevation. Their obvious purpose was to prevent
scattering of ashes and light debris before the tireless canyon winds.
Two flights of stone steps were later constructed over the northern
wall of the east mound to facilitate access to its summit.

Other walls whose intended function remains unsolved were also
exposed during the summer. One of these, at no point more than
two feet high, extends in a northeasterly direction a distance of 500
feet from the outer southeast corner of the ruin.

Explorations in Pueblo Bonito were brought practically to com-
pletion by the 1924 Expedition. There remain for next year additional
chronologic studies and minor excavations, the fundamental purpose
of which will be to explain certain still doubtful matters of prime
importance. It is already evident that Pueblo Bonito was occupied
throughout a much longer period than was originally suspected.
Amalgamation of the two distinct groups that comprised its later
population resulted in a prehistoric village whose fame reached the
remotest corner of the Southwest. During the period of its greatest
affluence, Pueblo Bonito was undoubtedly a center at which repre-
sentatives of many unrelated tribes met for barter and trade. Evidence
has been obtained that the Bonitians engaged in commerce with primi-
tive peoples of the Pacific Coast and even so far distant as the valley
of Mexico ; indeed, there seems to be no cultural area in the Southwest
of comparable antiquity whose members were not attracted to Pueblo
Bonito. The current explorations of the National Geographic Society,
therefore, have a direct bearing upon the distribution of ancient
Pueblo peoples. With a considerable portion of its unwritten history
recorded ; with the years of its construction determined with reason-
able accuracy—a former hope that seems more and more within the
realm of possibility—Pueblo Bonito is destined to become a yard-
stick, so to speak, by which the culture of other prehistoric south-
western ruins may be gauged. As Pueblo Bonito was the most influ-
ential village yet discovered in the Pueblo area of pre-Columbian
times so is it today the most important ruin in that area—a ruin
which holds the key to many secrets that have long puzzled American
archeologists.
Q2 SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VOL. -77

PREHISTORIC ABORIGINAL CULTURE OF THE GULF STATES

Of the aboriginal culture areas within the boundaries of what is
now the United States, there are two which, although related, are
widely diverse. One of these lies in the four States, Colorado, Utah,
New Mexico, and Arizona, the other formerly extended over portions
of the Gulf States, Florida, Georgia, Alabama, Mississippi, Louisiana,
or practically the Lower Mississippi Valley, Georgia, and Florida.
In both these areas there was an aboriginal culture prehistoric and
thoroughly Indian, which was on the decline when the region was
first visited by white men. Each area was inhabited by Indians speak-
ing different languages or dialects, but who had cranial similarities,
like means of obtaining a food supply, related social customs, rites,
and mythology. Ethnologists may have different opinions as to which
culture reached the higher development, but they generally agree
that we need more accurate knowledge of both to form a final judg-
ment of their character.

The amount of scientific research that has been devoted to these
two culture areas is quite unequal. The pueblo field has attracted so
many investigators that they far outnumber those studying all other
culture areas in the United States. Notwithstanding the fact that
the archeology of the Gulf States is as attractive as that of the
Pueblos, it has few votaries, possibly because the Pueblo culture has
survived less changed into modern times. The prehistoric culture of
the Gulf States may be termed Muskhogean, from the dominant
tribe of the Creek confederacy, though it is not limited to people speak-
ing any one language.

The southwest area has long been a favorite subject of study for
members of the Bureau of American Ethnology. The Smithsonian
was not only a pioneer worker in this area, but also for many years
the sole investigator. Of late, however, this field has attracted many
field workers and is now in good hands, producing annually many
discoveries.

The southeastern area, although not wholly neglected since the
epoch making work of Clarence B. Moore, is now making strong
appeals for archeological investigation which have attracted members
of the Bureau of American Ethnology. The Chief has inaugurated
a new plan of work in this area, the first step being a determination
of the aboriginal culture of Florida and an adequate diagnosis of its
character and horizon. On the south and east, boundaries of the
Muskhogean culture are limited by the Gulf of Mexico and the
Atlantic Ocean; its extension northward and westward is more
difficult to discover.
NO. 2 SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1924 93

WORK IN FLORIDA

Archeological work in Florida was begun at St. Petersburg, Tampa
Bay, in the winter of 1923-1924. It was discovered that the prehistoric

Fic, 105.—View of a road on Weeden Island, St. Petersburg, Florida, showing
semi-tropical vegetat'on. (Photograph by Beck.)

inhabitants of the Everglade region and the Florida Keys showed
scant evidences of a relationship to the Muskhogean culture, but
from Tampa Bay north into the other Gulf States, archeological data
supported linguistic evidences of Muskhogean influences.

7
94 SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VOU 7/7,

Following the above-mentioned plan, Weeden Mound, near Se
Petersburg, was excavated by the Chief, assisted by Mr. M. W.
Stirling, through the kindness of Mr. E. M. Elliott and the Boulevard
and Bay Land and Development Company. These investigations, pre-
liminary results of which were published last fall,’ reveal that the
culture of northern Florida was in prehistoric times different from
that of southern Florida.

The character of the objects obtained from Weeden Mound, as
shown in the above-mentioned pamphlet, indicates that the former
inhabitants of this site were allied to the so-called Lower Creeks who
once lived on the Chattahoochee and Flint rivers in Georgia. These
were of the same race as the Upper Creeks, denizens of the Tallapoosa
and Coosa valleys in Alabama, and as the Creeks were the most
numerous representatives of Muskhogean culture they may be re-
garded as typical of it. The archeological relation is mainly deter-
mined by the designs on the pottery, which in the case of the ceramic
objects from the Lower Creeks collected on the Chattahoochee and
Flint, figured and described by Mr. Clarence B. Moore, and those
from Weeden Mound are practically identical. In both localities
pottery designs are outlined by pitted or perforated lines, which
designs and technique occur also on pottery found at Tarpon Springs,
Crystal Springs, and at various other localities northward on the
west and northwest coast of Florida.

There is a similarity in mortuary practices throughout the greater
part of the Muskhogean culture area which occurs also in the
Weeden Mound. The actual method of burying the dead among the
Upper Creeks, as shown by the Graves collection at Montgomery
where the skeletons were placed in urns (figs. 112, 113), is unlike that
at Weeden Island, where they were free or placed in baskets. Urn
burial has not been recorded among the Lower Creeks but a secondary
interment or burial of skeletons in urns after the flesh had been
removed has been found in the islands on the Georgian coast. Bunched
burials occur throughout the whole Muskhogean area. So far as
we at present know, urn burial (fig. 114) is a localized development
found in different localities in the Gulf States but the bunched sec-
ondary burial of skeletons is a general feature in this culture.

The cluster of mounds on Weeden Island near St. Petersburg is
easily distinguished and its site has been lately designated Narvaez
Park from the Spanish leader of the expedition in the sixteenth
century that ended so disastrously. On the largest mounds of this

1Smithsonian Misc., Coll., Vol. 76, No. 13, 1924.
NGO. 2 SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1924 95

cluster formerly stood Mr. Weeden’s house, but earlier the Indians
used it as an eating place to which they brought their canoeloads of
shellfish, cooked the mollusks and ate the soft parts, throwing away
the shells. Mr. Weeden’s old home has now been torn down and a
pavilion erected on its site. Previously a trench was run into this
mound but it revealed little besides shells alternating with layers
of black sand, discolored by decomposed vegetable soil. A few frag-
ments of pottery rewarded excavation in this mound but it was singu-
larly poor in artifacts of any kind.

Fic. 106.—Flexed burial, lower layer, Weeden Island, Florida.
(Photograph by Beck.)

The conclusions arrived at by studies of this large mound were that,
while its top may have served as an observatory or even the site of a
building like a chief’s house, it was essentially a kitchen midden
composed of rejected shells or whatever human artifacts may have
been lost in it by the aborigines. Almost every village site in the
Gulf States culture area has a mound larger than the rest and dom-
inating it, which was used as the foundation of the houses of the
chief or of the temple in which, in some cases, the fire was kept con-
tinually burning. Such mounds were Cahokia in East St, Louis, Mo.,
96 SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VOL. 77

and Etowah, near Cartersville, Georgia. This dominating mound is
here designated the Acropolis.

Dr. Fewkes made trial pits in various other mounds of the Weeden
cluster and among other elevations found a low mound of sand in
which grew a few trees and scanty plants but showed no considerable
number of shells. It gave promise of a much greater reward and to
it the main work was devoted through the winter and early spring
of 1923-24. It was found to be a burial mound concealing numerous
human skulls, much pottery, and other objects of various kinds. The
most striking specimens were secondary burials of human bones, of
which 440 bunches were found.

These remains followed the almost universal aboriginal burial
customs among people of the Gulf States. After death the bodies were
allowed to decay and the flesh removed from the skeleton by “ bone
pickers ” after which the large bones and crania, done up in bundles,
were in due time placed in heaps and covered with earth, forming
a mound over a dune of coral sand.

According to contemporary writers, one custom of the ancients in
preparing the “bundles”’’ for burial after flesh had been removed
was to paint the skulls with vermilion. Dr. Fewkes verified this
custom at Weeden Mound, for he found the paint, now in some
instances dry dust, and readily removed from the bones with a brush.
The skeletal material was in a very fragile condition and fell to
pieces almost at the least touch.

It was noticed that a cross section of the mound exposed by a
trench through it, revealed a stratification composed of two marked
layers of finest sand through which are darker narrow seams of
black or dark brown color. The difference between these layers is
mainly indicated not by the color but by the contained pottery. The
upper layer is capped by a thin superficial covering of sand which
represents the modern deposit. Below it is the thick upper stratum
in which were found specimens of decorated pottery, either in frag-
ments or whole pieces, the latter in one or two instances cached. Two
views of a fine bowl are shown in figure 108, a and b. The whole
pieces are invariably artificially pierced by an irregular opening in
the bottom by which the bowl or jar was “ killed,’ evidently to allow
the escape of the breath body or life of the bowl. In a lower layer,
the pottery is coarse, undecorated, and scattered. It contained also
a few implements and utensils made of shell. It would appear that
the lower layer was used as the burial place of the archaic Floridian
NO. 2 SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1924 Q7

F'tg, 107.—Circular stone disk with eccentric perforation, popularly called an
anchor, presented by Mr. and Mrs. Griner, Caxambas, Florida.

{ dD
Fic. 108.—Two views of bowl with incised and relief decoration, from
Weeden Island, St. Petersburg, Florida. Restored from fragments.

(a) Shows conventionalized figure of a bird.
(b) Figure on side at right angles to a.
98 SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VOLS iii

people and from its general facies Dr. Fewkes allies it with the lower
layer that has been recorded in Cuban and other West Indian Islands.

Only in rare instances is the pottery of the upper stratum painted,
but almost every fragment is decorated with designs whose outlines
consist mostly of rows of pits, in rare instances accompanied with
relief decorations (fig. 108). Little resemblance appears in the designs
on the decorated pottery from Weeden Island to those on the pottery
of the Tainan inhabitants of the West Indies, but the likeness of
utensils from the lower layers on these islands and on the peninsula
of Florida is striking.

Dr. Fewkes found no specimens of European provenience in the
Florida mound half excavated by him at St. Petersburg, which indi-
cates that the village sites were pre-Columbian. A food bowl of
coarse, undecorated black ware was found on top of the lower layer
and probably is a survival of the archaic population.

From the designs depicted on the pottery in the upper layer at
Weeden Mound and comparison with that described from mounds
on the Chattahoochee and Flint rivers of Georgia and other Gult
States, Dr. Fewkes regards this pottery as not only characteristic but
as belonging to the highest type of ceramics in the Muskhogean
culture area.

WORK IN ALABAMA AND TENNESSEE

When the Wilson dam over Tennessee River at Muscle Shoals,
northern Alabama, is finished, the back water of the river will
flood a considerable section of its banks, covering several prehistoric
mounds and permanently concealing them. In order to rescue a
typical collection from these mounds before their submergence, the
Bureau allotted to Mr, Gerard Fowke a small sum of money for the
excavation of a kitchen midden and sand mound at the mouth of
Town Creek, a few miles from Courtland. In the sand mound Mr.
Fowke found human burials and accompanying mortuary objects.
The most important discovery at this mound consisted of three rare
copper reel gorgets, only a few of which have thus far been found.

On his trip to Muscle Shoals to inspect the work, Dr. Fewkes
found several typical mounds higher up on the river banks which
would well repay excavation. The largest of these (fig. 110), which
is here called the Acropolis, was the foundation of a sun-fire temple.
It lies in full sight of the Florence-Sheffield road and has long been
a landmark, as it is probably one of the highest mounds in the Valley
of the Tennessee. The present owner of this mound is thoroughly
NO. 2 SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1924 Q9

alive to its value as an asset to the two cities, Florence and Sheffield,
and has opposed efforts to cart it away for roads. Its value as a

b

Fic. 109.—Steatite pipe, found by Weil Harris near Hyde’s Ferry, on
Cumberland River, about seven miles below Nashville.
(a) From above. Length 10”.

(b) From below. Width 2%”.
(c) Side view. Height 2%”.

landmark is much greater than the value of the contents for building
causeways or roads.
100 SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VOL. 77

tes i) *

Fic. 110.—Large mound on side of road between Sheffield and Florence,
Alabama.

Mullett

Fic. t11.—(b) From photograph of a Catawba bowl in collection of Wm. T.
Thackston, Greenville, S. C. Published by permission of owner. (c) Raised
figure on pottery fragment from Weeden Island, Florida.
NO. 2 SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1924 IOI

Dr. Fewkes visited the battlefield at Shiloh and inspected the
remains of an aboriginal village now indicated by mounds. The
beautiful pipe excavated years ago from one of these elevations he
regards as the finest art product of the old Muskhogean culture. Four
life size illustrations of this pipe, from Records of the Past, July, 1902,
represent a kneeling human figure, black in color, whereas the original
color is brown.

The shell mound at Town Creek yielded many specimens but they
indicate a lower cultural condition than the village cluster on the
Shiloh battlefield, as might be inferred from the character of the
food supply.

In November Dr. Fewkes made a trip to Montgomery, Alabama,
in order to locate prehistoric mounds and study the collections made
near that city. He also desired to familiarize himself with the ener-
getic work of the Alabama Anthropological Society. The visit was brief
but he enjoyed the privilege of inspecting several collections of an-
tiquities and was guided to several mounds by Mr. Peter A. Brannon,
President of the Society, and other members, to whom he owes many
thanks.

Montgomery is situated near the heart of the Upper Creek country
and the collections of aboriginal objects made in the neighborhood
of that city contain several unique Indian objects not yet described.
Among these may be mentioned the burial urns of the Graves collec-
tion. Figures 112-114, published by permission of Mr. Graves, show
a number of these bowls, vases, and jars used in urn burial. After
death the flesh was allowed to decay and, having been removed, the
bones were put in a deep vase and covered with a flat food bowl that
was ultimately inhumated. The cemetery where these urns occur was
situated in a corn field in which was a circular saucer like depression
called by the negroes an “ Indian talk house,” evidently an ancient
council house. An excavation of this subterranean room would
probably yield what is much needed, a knowledge of architectural
details as well as archeological treasures. While several of these urn
burial vessels are rude undecorated pottery, there are others whose
surface was incised with ornamental designs of a geometrical form.
As a rule this pottery is inferior to that found at Weeden Island or
on the Black Warrior River. Mr. Graves’ collection also contains
several unpublished shell disks decorated with finely incised natural-
istic designs which are characteristic of early Creek symbolism.

On his visit in Montgomery, Dr. Fewkes was enabled to make
several excursions to numerous prehistoric village sites. Among the
102 SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VOL if

Fic. 112.—Burial urns from Pintlala Cemetery, Lowndes County, Alabama.

(a) From Cemetery, Cowles Lake, Elmore Co., Ala. Tuckbathie Bend, Tallapoosa
River. Diam. 12” x 8”. Inverted over chest of human skeleton. Graves collection.

(b) Collected by E. M. Graves and Dr. R. P. Burke. Diam. 12”x 7”. Found 30” below
surface, inverted over knees of human skeleton.

(c) Collected by E. M. Graves and Dr. R. P. Burke. Urn 1834” x 13”. Inverted
when found; full of ashes and bones showing influence of fire. Side of jawbone
of carnivorousanimal. Possibly cremation. Buried 36” under surface. Graves
Collection.

(d) Urn from Graves Collection.

(e) Design on cover rim,
NO. 2 SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1924 103

Fic. 113.—Burial urns from Pintlala Cemetery, Lowndes County, Alabama.
(a) Diameter 20” x 14”.

40” deep. Double cover.
(b) Same as (a).

(c) Collected by E. M. Graves and Dr. R. P. Burke.
covered by broken fragments of pottery.

Contents, two adults and one adolescent. Buried 36”

to
Eagerton Collection.
Diameter of urn 24” x malo
Contents, traces of child’s skeleton,
charcoal and ashes. Brannon Collection.

(d) Collected by E. M. Graves and Dr. R. P. Burke. Diameter of urn 18” x 6”; diameter

of cover 15”. Contains fragments of child’s skeleton and 12 beads. Burke Collection.
(e) Burial urn with bones.

(f) Cover of urn (fig. d) with incised decoration on. rim.
104 SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VOLS 77

Fic. 114.—Burial urns from Pintlala Cemetery, Lowndes County, Ala-
bama. (a) and (c) collected by E. M. Graves and R. P. Eagerton, Graves’
collection; (b) and (d) collected by E. M. Graves and Dr. R. P. Burke,
Burke collection.

(a) Diameter 14” x 10”; cover 1444” x6”. Contents, fragments of child’s skeleton,

(b) Diameter 12”x 7”; cover 141%4”x 6”, Contents, remains of small infant. Buried
two feet deep.

(c) Diameter of urn 15”x 10”; cover 14” x 6”. Contents, child’s skeleton; associated
with it, shell gorget and clay image of a woman 5%” high.

(d) Diameter 14” x 10”; cover 14” x6”. Contents, part of skeleton of adult. Lower
vessel has columnar ridges on neck.

(e) Plowed up by Dock Groves, who gave it to Chas. and Ed. Hinderer, who later
presented it to E. M. Graves. Contents, remains of two adults, one child.

(f) Urn with four handles.
NO. 2 SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1924 105

most interesting was to the site of old Tuskegee and Fort Toulouse
where William Weatherford surrendered to General Jackson at the
close of the Creek war. The Indian settlement, Tuskegee, was most
picturesquely situated at the junction of the Coosa and Tallapoosa
rivers, together forming the Alabama River. Several other mounds
situated near Montgomery were visited, including one at the ford
where it is claimed De Soto crossed the Tallapoosa.

Dr. Fewkes examined several Indian sites and mounds of size near
Nashville and Lebanon under guidance of Mr. P. E. Cox, State
Archeologist of Tennessee. The most instructive were large mounds
near which are stone walled graves that had never been opened. The
excavation of one of these is now being made by the Bureau under
supervision of the Chief. At Lebanon a rare form of bird-pipe made
of steatite shown in the accompanying figure (fig. 109) was purchased
for the Museum. The large mound at Lebanon is situated in a corn
field and surrounded by a low embankment of earth and accompany-
ing moat, indicating a fortification. The most remarkable object
seen on the visit to this mound is the stone idol shown in figure 116.
This idol was ploughed up a short distance from the base of the
mound, suggesting that the elevation was formerly a temple or house
of a chief, upon which it once stood.

In a determination of the Muskhogean culture area as fixed by the
archeologist, we find traces of it in South Carolina, somewhat modified
on account of the peripheral situation. Although little is known of
the prehistoric pottery of South Carolina, Dr. Fewkes has obtained a
photograph of a bowl (fig. 111) owned by Mr. Wm, J. Thackston, Jr.,
which is supposed to be ancient Catawba ware and shows Muskhogean
influence. Dr. Fewkes examined several fine bowls of this ware
decorated with figures of the sun and winged or plumed serpent, often
conventionalized into incised geometric designs. These clearly indicate
sun worship, a pronounced feature of the Muskhogean culture. The
design on this Catawba bowl suggests parts of a highly conven-
tionalized serpent.

A most instructive excursion near Montgomery was a visit to the
Pintlala Creek cemetery in Lowndes County, Alabama, where the
burial urns collection was found. These urns have been figured and
described by Mr. Graves in Arrow Points, Vol. 6, No. 8. Additional
figures of burial urns from islands off the Georgia coast and elsewhere
have been given by Mr. C. B. Moore who has treated the subject of
urn burials in a special article.
NI
N

100 SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VOL.

Fic. 115.—Pottery idol found with Fic. 116.—Stone idol found at
urn (c), fig. 114. Collection E. M. the base of a large mound near
Graves, Montgomery, Alabama. Height, Lebanon, Tennessee, by Mr.
54 inches. Ray Sellars. A photograph of the

specimen published by permission
of owner.

Excavators at work on shell mound at mouth of Town Creek,
near Muscle Shoals, Colbert County, Alabama.

JING, TG.

NO. 2 SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1924 107

Although the visits of Dr. Fewkes to Tennessee and Alabama were
much limited in time they have called attention to one or two instruc-
tive problems which await new observations for solution. Urn burial
appears not to have been mentioned in the extended accounts of
mortuary customs found in early documentary and historical descrip-

‘SDD dsiil

eu

Fig, 118.—Prehistoric objects from Kittitas County, Washington.
(a) Pipe. Length 17”; diameter 34”.
(b) Enlarged incised decoration of pipe (a).

(c) Stone pipe. Length 4%”; diam. 34”. Diam. of ferrule at one end 11%”.
(d) Carved bone ornament or implement. Length 6%”. Diam. at wide end 1”.

tion of the Creeks. We know the bunched skeletons were placed in
baskets for the bone house and later removed and buried in mounds,
and may readily suppose the urn took the place of the basket, but are
we justified in this supposition? Furthermore, as urn burial is not
the common method of disposal of the dead, this exceptional custom
108 SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VOL. 77

may have been used only for chiefs or priests. If so we have an
explanation of its occurrence around the council houses. A large
number of infants were buried in urns.

It seems evident that there were local differences in artifacts,
especially ceramic symbols, in different localities or areas dominated
by the Muskhogean culture which may be a parallelism with what
occurs in the pueblo region, but this means renewed field-work to
discover the ceramic facies of each area of population in the Gulf
States.

The relation of the Muskhogean and Pueblo areas calls for archeo-
logical work west of the Mississippi along the Red River where many
mounds have been reported. Until knowledge of the archeology of
this area is more exact, theories of the relationship of these two cul-
ture areas to each other and of both to Old Mexico are futile.

During the past year Dr. Fewkes has received from the State of
Washington two characteristic straight tube pipes of a variety which
is interesting in a comparative way in studying the large steatite pipe
collected by him at Lebanon, Tennessee. With the same collection
came also an engraved bone object of unknown use. These objects
are shown in figure 118.

REPAIR OF MUMMY CAVE TOWER IN THE CANYON DEL
MUERTO, ARIZONA

During the past year, Mr. Earl H. Morris, at the request of
the Chief of the Bureau, did some necessary repair work on the
famous Tower of the Mummy Cave House in the Canyon del
Muerto. This tower is approximately 30 feet high, and 11 feet 3
inches wide, and once contained three rooms. All woodwork on the
first ceiling has been torn out, only the haggled ends of a few of the
supports remaining embedded in the walls.

The cleanly peeled poles which supported the second ceiling are in
place, and the third ceiling—or roof—is intact, presumably because of
the difficulty which would have attended its removal.

Covering the supporting poles, there is a closely-laid layer of peeled
willows. Probably it is one of the most handsome ceilings remaining
in any ruin in the Southwest, its only rivals being the coverings of one
or two rooms in the north side of Pueblo Bonito.

For an unknown length of time the Tower has been in a dangerous
condition, due principally to its undermining by the elements. Origi-
nally there was a retaining wall rising from the very brink of the
NO. 2 SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1924 109g

ledge in front which held in place the fill of loose rock and refuse
upon which the House of the Tower stands. Eventually all but the
eastern end of this wall collapsed—probably because of the insecure
foundation afforded by the abruptly sloping rock, and much of the
material behind it poured down over the cliff. As time went on, the
not infrequent winds which sweep past the cave with unbelievable

Fic. 119.—Tower from the west. New retaining wall
at lower right-hand.

force whipped out the dust and smaller particles of rock until the
southwest corner of the Tower was undermined more than three feet
and the wall thence eastward almost to the opposite corner to a
lesser degree.
As the Tower stood in the fall of 1924, the east wall was firm and
secure, being bedded on the ledge to within 14 feet of its outer end.
8
110 SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VOL. Sg
The west wall had settled considerably, more toward the outer end
than near the cliff, and at the top the wall had leaned away from the
latter fully eight inches, The front wall had split away from the
west wall, and the entire southeast corner had fallen except for a
short distance at the very top. Evidently the upper half of this corner
had come down since Mindeleff made his report of the site (16th
Annual Report, Bur. Am. Ethn., p. 114).

As for the cracks in the west wall, they were noticeably wider in
November, 1924, than they were a year previous. The condition of
the unconsolidated mass beneath the front wall was such that the
removal of half a dozen shovelfuls of earth would have loosened the
large block just beyond its western end, the temporary wedging oi
which, alone, had prevented the entire collapse of the masonry. In
addition to the periodic action of the wind, each visitor who passed
from the eastern to the western part of the cave detached a portion of
the loose mass below the wall farther down the slope, and sent clods
and pebbles rattling over the cliff. Thus before many years it was
inevitable that the block would have been loosened, and the Tower
would have gone down to its destruction. Hence it was considered
that the first remedial effort should be centered upon providing <
secure foundation for the ancient masonry.

To this end Mr. Morris and his party devoted November 11 to
14, inclusive. The force consisted of three white men and six
Indians, with a seventh on the last day. There was no difficulty in
obtaining stone, as plenty of it from fallen walls was strewn down the
slope at the west end of the eastern section of the cave. Satisfactory
adobe was found only in the stream bed several hundred yards away.
Owing to the arduous climb, the Indians were scarcely able to provide
enough material to keep the masons busy. During the five days, but-
tresses were built beneath and enclosing the large blocks under the
west end of the Tower, and under the undermined portion of the
latter, continuing back to the limit of undermining, and extending
well forward of the masonry. At the junction of the two, wedges
were driven to knit the new work firmly to the old. From the east
end of the buttress a retaining wall was built to connect with the
remnant of the old one on the brink of the ledge, and the space
behind it was filled, thus providing a platform instead of the former
steep slope at the southeast corner of the Tower.

The total length of walls built was 26}feet, and their average height
was 44 feet. The thickness of the buttresses varied with the space
they were to occupy. From a minimum of 1} feet, they ranged to a
to

NO.

SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1924

whee

PAV AR AY

Fic. 121.—New foundation of Tower from in front. All masonry below dark
lines is portion of repair work.

II2 SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VOL if

maximum thickness of 5 feet at the point where the wall was most
deeply undermined. In bedding the masonry, the ledge was swept
free from dust, and where it sloped abruptly it was chipped away
to provide a secure attachment of wall to cliff.

It was Mr. Morris’ original idea to use cement instead of adobe
for mortar. However, it was found possible to obtain the same quality
of clay used by the original builders, which is as hard as brick when
dry, and it was decided to use this material, thus avoiding the expense
of freighting cement from Gallup, New Mexico, 100 miles distant.

Although the foundation placed beneath the Tower should remove
all danger from settling, other protective measures would be highly
desirable. The front wall was not perpendicular when constructed.
Up to the level of the second ceiling it sloped slightly outward, and
thence upward leaned toward the cliff. Since it has parted from
both side walls. the maximum strain falls at the point of greatest
protuberance. Gravity, augmented by the tendency of high winds
to produce a swaying motion, might cause the wall to buckle at the
point of greatest stress and to topple outward. Rods with turnbuckles,
anchored in the cliff with expansion belts and passing through plates
on the outer side of the masonry, would prevent failure of this nature.
It was hoped that these could be installed within the limits of the
amount expended for protection in 1924, but this was not possible.
In addition to the placing of the rods, the Tower should be further
strengthened by the rebuilding of the southeast corner and its careful
bonding to both the front and east walls. It is to be hoped that pro-
vision for this work can be made in the near future; for the Tower,
which is one of the finest gems of aboriginal architecture in the
entire Southwest, thus treated, would be preserved beyond doubt
or question for centuries to come.

Besides the partial repair of the Tower, a breach was filled farther
along the wall which continues westward therefrom, and a foundation
was built beneath the high front wall of a room near the western end
of the east cave.

STUDIES ON THE TULE INDIANS OF PANAMA

ETHNOLOGICAL AND LINGUISTIC STUDIES

The bringing of a party of eight Tule Indians from Panama to
Washington in the middle of October by R. O. Marsh, mining en-
gineer and explorer, has afforded J. P. Harrington, ethnologist of
the Bureau of American Ethnology, the opportunity to make an
113

1924

EXPLORATIONS,

SMITHSONIAN

‘pues, nddnjsq ‘q ‘pur[st ipuesiysy ‘Dd “pueyst ryyIpuesiy ‘gq ‘purjs! nddnjuex “y ‘uonejndod
ploisan (2) ‘emnbiy Ory pue ejouey Ory Jo SsioyeMpeay ye pue UIeJUNOT eUNdIvOe TL jNoge ‘ejopisiy (9) ‘euND uUreyUNoO]y
10 ‘ajafljeunyeuy ($) ‘onbeunonyy Ory Jo sioyempeoay ‘ejopipseyy (VF) “BTR (£) ‘ouRAeG OY JO SioJeMpeay ‘ejOpIpue
-sunpeyy (Zz) ‘a]N ySeOD 10 ‘Oud}sOD (1) “BUeUeG JO SURIPUT INT VY} JO SUOISIAIp [eqi4} oy} Surmoys depy—zzI “Oly

y)
"NAA yey

4
te,
D
zZ
=
Iie

& Ay aa,
Sv7E NUS youre Ait AN:

op

4,
+
N\y0
II4 SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VOL. 77

extensive study of the ethnology and language of this little known
tribe, said to number some 50,000 souls.

The Tule Indians, also known as Cunas, Comogres, and San
Blasefios, live along the Caribbean coast of Panama from Murru
(San Blas Point) to Armila (Port Obaldia), a distance of 120 miles.
They still have their own tribal government from Kwibgandi to
Cacardia, a strip of coast 30 miles in length. They formerly held
the coast from the region of Eskarban (Port Escribanos), 15 miles
west of San Blas Point, to include the delta region of the Rio Atrato,
a strip of coast 220 miles long. The tribe also holds the San Blas
range, which parallels the coast at a distance varying from 5 to 20
miles, from San Blas Point to the region about Tacarcuna Mountain,
including portions of the Pacific slope of the range. The linguistically
related Coiba held the isthmus to the west, including Colon and
Panama. The linguistic stock to the south was the Choco Indians,
who now inhabit much of the Savana, Chucunaque and Tuira river
drainages.

The tribe, according to the informants, is divided into six sections
as shown on the accompanying map (fig. 122.) The Negroid popula-
tion is closing in on the Indians and will soon work their extinction.

The Tule language has, with the Choco, the distinction of being
the most southerly Indian language of North America, and with the
Huaimi of Panama that of extending from the Atlantic to the
Pacific coast.

The informants are: (1) James Perry, Alice Perry and Margarita
Campos from Yantuppu (A of map), a small island in front of
Nargana, 22 miles east of San Blas Point; (2) Niga (Felipe) from
Tigandikki island (B of map), 31 miles east of San Blas Point; (3)
Igwa Nigdibippi, who is chief over 20 islands, and Olo Piniginya
from Agligandi island (C of map), 64 miles east of San Blas Point ;
(4) Alfred Robinson and Tcippu from Ustuppu island (D of map),
71 miles east of San Blas Point. Alfred’s father is Nele, chief of
the island.

Three of the party, Margarita, Olo and Tcippu, are examples of
Ibegwa or White Indians, of whom Wafer writes in 1699: “ There
is one complexion so singular among a sort of people of this country,
that I never saw or heard of any like them in any part of the world.
They are white and there are of them of both sexes. Their skins
are not of such a white as those of fair people among Europeans,
but ’tis of a milk white, lighter than the color of any Europeans, and
much like that of a white horse. For there is this further remarkable
NO. 2 SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1924 I15

in them, that their bodies are beset all over with a fine short milkwhite
down, which adds to the whiteness of their skins. They are not a
distinct race by themselves but now and then one is bred of the
coppercolored father and mother.’ The little island of Ustuppu has
ten of these White Indians on it.

The Tule say that their ancestors used to live around the base of
Tacarcuna Mountain, west of the mouth of the Rio Atrato, the
highest peak in their territory, and that they spread from there up
the San Blas range and coast. It was at that mountain that God,
Olokkuppilele, created the Indians.

The language exceeds in softness and beauty the melodious Cas-
tilian. It has no sounds that do not ocur in English. Its sounds are
only 17 in number,aeiougydcslrnbmwy. These occur
single or double, as in Finnish, thus securing the required number
of syllables for the formation of words; e. g., kwalu, potato, but
kwallu, grease.

The Indians know hundreds of place-names of the coast and moun-
tains. Chief Igwa has prepared a large map showing these places.

The large collection presented by Mr. Marsh to the National Mu-
seum has afforded unusual opportunity for investigation of material
culture. The sociology and religion of the Indians have formed
fruitful fields of study. To assist the work the Dictaphone Corpora-
tion has installed machines for recording texts and songs.

The vocabulary comprises names of places, persons, parts of the
body, sociological terms and other data. Dictaphone records of ex-
tended discourse have been made which will serve as the basis for
further study of the language.

In 1914 Mr. Harrington made a six weeks study of this language
at the Southwest Museum in Los Angeles, California, the informant
being a Tule boy who was brought from Panama Harbor to San Pedro
on a private yacht. This work was conducted through the kind interest
of Dr. Hector Alliot. then director of the museum.

STUDY OF THE TULE INDIAN MUSIC

A remarkable opportunity for the study of primitive music was
afforded by the presence in Washington of a group of Tule Indians
from the Province of Colon, in Panama. This study was made by
Miss Frances Densmore. The Indians were brought to the United
States by Mr. R. O. Marsh and became known as “ white Indians ”’
because of the fair skin of certain individuals. A frequent occurrence
116 SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VOI i

of fair-skinned individuals in this tribe was noted by Wafer, who
wrote concerning them in 1699. It is not unusual for parents of
normal Indian coloring to have children with skin of a peculiar milky
whiteness, blue eyes and pale yellow hair, the skin, in many instances,
showing irregular blotches of light brown. A family may contain
both dark and fair children. The group brought by Mr. Marsh com-
prised five adults, all of whom were dark in color, and three children
who were fair. The study of their music was carried on entirely with
the adult members of the group during November and December,
1924, and was made possible by the courtesy of Mr. Marsh.

VOCAL MUSIC

Among the Tule Indians brought to the United States was a chief
named Igwa Nigdibippi who had made a special study of the tribal
songs. If he were a member of our own race he would be termed a
man of practical intelligence and artistic culture. The head chief of
the Tule is an old man, and on his death Igwa may be elected as his
successor. In view of this possibility Igwa is cultivating his knowl-
edge of the geography of the region with its irregular coast line and
hundreds of islands and “keys.” He draws maps which show the
location of the villages, indicating the approximate number of inhabi-
tants in each. His care and ability in this work added weight to his
statements concerning the music of his people, who do not adopt any
songs from neighboring tribes but maintain their own musical cus-
toms. Associated with him in giving information were James Perry
and his wife, Alice Perry, and Alfred Robinson who acted as inter-
preter. These three did not give the Indian names by which they
are known at home, and the names here presented have been recently
acquired. The recording of the songs was done entirely by the chief,
a dictaphone being used for that purpose.

The singing tone used by the Tule chief was somewhat different
from that used by the Indians of North America. It was even more
artificial, with a “ pinched,” forced quality not particularly pleasing
to the ear and impossible to describe in an accurate manner. The
Tule songs are without instrumental accompaniment in our use of
that term. The flute and rattle are sometimes played while the people
sing and dance, and the singers sometimes clap their hands, but the
flute and rattle do not seem to have either a melodic or a rhythmic
relation to the song. No form of accompaniment was desired when
the songs were being recorded and it was said that the voice was
entirely alone in the “ songs with stories.” The flute was played dur-
NO, 2 SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1924 117

ing the prolonged tones of the wedding music which occurred at
regular intervals.

In this, as in all Indian tribes, it was impossible to obtain a verbal
description of the music. It was necessary to record songs, study
the records, and question the people concerning them. The first song
recorded was about seven minutes in duration. When it was finished
the chief was asked to explain the words. These words were highly
poetic and contained an entire narrative, working up to a climax and

Fic. 123.—James Perry blowing conch shell trumpet.

ending in a conclusive manner. The song related that a group of
young girls walked among the bright flowers, a young man appeared,
and later was shot by a jealous rival. Another song was requested
and the chief sang of a race between several canoes (dugouts)
equipped with sails. In this song a storm arose, followed by a calm
and a favoring breeze, the song ending with the wedding of the
captain who won the race, while the sailors danced at the wedding.
From these examples it was evident that the words of Tule songs
afforded as much pleasure as the melody.
118 SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VOL. 77

x

baie

cocoa

e
alle

N

Fic. 124.—Whistles made of wing-bones of pelican and buzzard.
INO), 2 SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1924 1)

The chief was asked whether his people used music 1n the treatment
of the sick, and he responded with a song for the cure of headache,
containing the following words:

I bring sweet-smelling flowers and put them in water,

I dip a cloth in the water and put it around your head,

Then I bring a comb, part your hair smoothly and make it pretty.
Everyone comes to see ‘you get better,

And [| tell you that you will never be cold again.

Go to sleep and dream of many animals, mountain-lions and sea-lions,
You will talk with them and understand what they say,

When you wake you will be a doctor, like me.

“received his songs in dreams,” and sang

It was said that a doctor
when preparing his most difficult remedies. He did not shake a rattle,
nor make any commotion when treating a sick person, as is frequently
done by the Indians of North America. The chief expressed the
opinion this would increase the illness of the patient.

Certain songs were sung after the death of a man, and in these
songs the man’s spirit was directed on its way to a “ happy place.”
Such a song was recorded and may be summarized as follows; in
this portion of the song the sick man speaks to his wife.

The fever returns. I drink the medicine and throw it on my body.

The fever grows worse. I am going to die.

My breath grows difficult, my face is pale,

The medicine does not help me. I am going’ to die.

Talk to my two children about me, after I am gone.

I leave the cocoanut farm for my children.

After I die you will go to the cocoanut farm and take the children with you,

There you will think of me.

If people go to our cocoanut farm and cut the trees

You must track them and find who did it.

I am leaving the plantain farm.

There will be plenty of property for the children.

I leave the small fruits, the mangoes, the bananas and other fruits,

Think of me when you gather them.

The song then mentions his ski!l in hunting and fishing, enumerat-
ing the results as he had named the fruits on his farms. He tells his
wife to marry again in a short time, then dies, and the remainder
of the song concerns the directing of his spirit on its way.

The principal social event of the Tule is a wedding, to which the
people come from all the villages. They dance and sing for several
days, according to the wealth of the bride’s father who provides the
entertainment. The writer first obtained a full and detailed account
of the wedding customs, and then asked for a wedding song. When
this had been recorded she asked for a translation of the words.
120 SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VOL 77,

The reply was: “ He sang just what we told you . He sang how the
father gets the presents ready, the chief tells the people, the chief
musician makes a new flute to play at the wedding, and everybody
sings and dances just like we told you. He sings that in the song.”

The custom of singing to secure success in games is common among
the North American Indians but absent in the Tule. Descriptions
of five games were obtained but it was said that games were played
only by young boys. The Tule are a hard-working people, living on
the islands, or keys, and cultivating ground on the main land, going
thither in the early morning and returning at night. A man’s wealth
depends on his efforts to push back the jungle and keep it back, thus
enabling trees to grow from which he can sell the fruit.

The test of a song, as recorded among the North American Indians,
has been a comparison between records made at intervals by the
same or other individuals. In accordance with that method of work
the writer asked for a repetition of the song concerning the canoe
race, after a period of a few days. On comparing the two renditions
of the song there was found to be only a general resemblance in the
melodies. It may be recalled that, among the North American
Indians, the repetitions of a song by the same or another individual
often are absolutely exact, instances having been noted in which
renditions by one person at intervals of several months were identical
even in pitch and tempo.

Tule songs are a form of primitive music that, it is believed, has
not hitherto been described. Vocal proficiency, among the Tule, con-
sists in improvising melodies instead of repeating them with exact-
ness, yet songs are “ learned,’ and each song recorded has a distinc-
tive character. For instance, the song for relief of headache is a
soothing melody, and a song concerning eight articles has a recurrent
phrase when each, in turn, is mentioned. The general character of
the songs is gentle and pleasing, They have a compass of three to
six tones, though the melody is usually within a compass of five tones.
Nine songs have been transcribed, either wholly or in part. They con-
tain measures of two, three, five or seven beats, occurring in irregular
order and probably determined by the accented syllables of the
words. The songs bear no resemblance to chants but consist of
short melodic phrases of equal length, each concluding with a pro-
longed tone. The substance of the words is established but it seems
probable that the identical words are not repeated. This would be
exceedingly difficult in songs of such length, and, if done, would
NO. 2 SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1924 i210

tend to create a rhythmic pattern in the melody, causing it also to be
repeated with exactness.

The chief said that he began the study of songs when he was ten
years old. The first song he learned was the first he recorded for
the writer. He gave the name of the man who taught him, saying
it took him a long time to learn that first song. Seven years later,
this man having gone away, he went to another from whom he
learned about 30 songs. First he learned miscellaneous songs, and
later learned those sung when preparing medicines and treating the
sick, though he is not a doctor. Recognized standards of music were
further shown by the statement that certain persons were “ good
singers ” while others “could not sing.”

INSTRUMENTAL MUSIC

No drum is used by the Tule, neither do they pound upon a pole
or other object. In this respect they are unique among primitive people.
A neighboring tribe uses a tall wooden drum with a hide stretched
across one end, but the Tule have never adopted this instrument. The
statement concerning the absence of a drum was confirmed by Major
H. B. Johnson, formerly a Lieutenant of the Black Watch, B. E. F.,
whose acquaintance with these people extends over three years. Major
Johnson went to Panama with a British expedition in 1921 and became
especially interested in the Tule. He was also a member of the Marsh
Expedition in 1924.

The musical instruments used by the Tule are the conch-shell
trumpet, bone whistle, pan-pipes, flute and gourd rattle. The first
named is made by piercing a mouth-hole in the tip of the shell. The
only variety used in this manner is the Casis cameo Stm. (fig. 123).
This instrument, with its far reaching tone, appears to have been used
only as a signal.

Whistles are made of the wing-bone of the pelican and king buz-
zard. They have four finger-holes and are decorated with lines burned
with a hot iron (figs. 124, 125). These, as well as the other instru-
ments illustrated, are in the Marsh Collection at the U. S. National
Museum.

The pan-pipes are made of a different, smaller reed than the flutes.
A set consists of two parts, each of which has three or four reeds
bound together with a cord, and the two parts are connected by a cord
nine or more inches long. In the two sets under observation the
shortest reed is 44 inches, and the longest 144 inches, in length. It
was said that pan-pipes in the native villages frequently contain reeds

)
122 SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VOL. 77

Fic. 125.—Igwa Nigdibippi playing bone whistle.

Fic. 126.—Igwa Nigdibippi and Alfred Robinson playing pan-pipes.
NOP Z SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1924 123

two or three feet long. Such reeds would give a deep, resonant tone.
The instrument has a surprisingly loud tone, resembling that of a
steam calliope, though it can be played with a moderate tone. It is

Fic. 127.—lIgwa Nigdibippi playing flute and rattle.

played for dancing and for “ serenading the girls.” Two sets are
usually played together (fig. 126), one player sounding one tone and

the other the next tone, alternating in this manner throughout the
[24 SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VOL. -77

performance, and improvising the melody. Only one of the Indians
present in Washington was an expert player on this instrument. In
order to show the full capacity of the pan-pipes he played alone, giving
a performance marked by a rapid-succession of high and low tones

Fic. 128.—Gourd rattles used by Tule Indians.

suggesting that on a concertina, he also gave interesting rhythms ona
single tone—rhythms that might be indicated by “ dots and dashes.”
It is probable that two expert players, at home, would show this
skill and variety when playing the alternating-tone melodies above
described.
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1924 iZ

cn

NO.

to

Fic. 1290.—Alice Perry in native costume.
126 SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VOLE

The Tule flute is of a type which, it is believed, has not been
observed elsewhere. It has two finger-holes but no “ whistle opening ”
and is held inside the cavity of the mouth, possibly touching the roof

Fic. 130.—Tule women at home.

of the mouth. For this reason the term “ mouth flute ” seems appli-
cable to it (fig. 127). The specimen under observation is 24% inches
long and the finger-holes are respectively 5 and 6 inches from the
lower end. The pith is removed from the reed and the opening
NO. 2 SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1924 127

flushed with water to remove all shreds, after which the holes are
burned with a heated iron and shaped with a sharp knife. The imple-
ment used in removing the pith is the stiff quill of a tail feather of
the wild turkey.

The player usually shakes a gourd rattle with his right hand, finger-
ing the flute with his left hand. The music at weddings is provided
chiefly by two flute players, each with a gourd rattle, one being the
Chief Musician who is accorded great honor, while the other is his
assistant. The melodies played on the flute were simple and pleasing.
Dictaphone records of the music of the flute and pan-pipes were made
and transcribed in musical notation. The former intrument produced
the tones of the minor triad on E flat, and the latter had a compass
of seven tones. In one instance the melody played on the pan-pipe was
based on G flat, and in another it was based on G.

The gourd rattle of the Tule is of the usual type, a round gourd
being pierced by a stick which forms the handle, but differs from the
rattle of North American tribes in that the gourd is often fastened
to the handle by a cord that passes through it (fig. 128). Two types
of gourd rattle are in use, one by the men and the other by the women.
The former, used in connection with the flute, is not large in size but
contains rather heavy pebbles. The latter is of two sorts, one being
used by the women when dancing and the other “to put the babies
to sleep.” Information concerning these rattles was given by Alice
Perry (fig. 129). The woman’s dancing rattle contains many small
pebbles, one being shown as the large, decorated rattle in the accom-
panying illustration. The second named is a smaller rattle (in the
illustration) and contains numerous small pebbles and one rather
large pebble. When this rattle is shaken the first resultant sound is
that of the small pebbles, this is followed by the rolling of the larger
stone which, continued steadily, has a peculiarly soothing effect. The
Tule, like other tribes, have songs which are sung by mothers to put
the children to sleep, but this is the first instance known to the writer
in which Indians use instrumental music for this purpose.

The native dress of the women, with a glimpse of native environ-
ment, is shown in figure 130, a picture taken ten or more years ago.
Attention is directed to the heavy necklaces of silver coins and the
armlets and anklets of beads. The cotton tunics are decorated with
applique designs of material in a contrasting color, the work being
done with neatness.
128 SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VOL. 77

RESEARCHES ON THE BURTON MOUND AND ON THE
KIOWA INDIANS

The beginning of the year found Mr. John P. Harrington, ethnolo-
gist, engaged in the excavation of the principal village of the Santa
Barbara Indians, known to them as Syujtun, to the early Spaniards
as El Puerto de Santa Barbara, and in more modern times as the
Burton Mound. The great mound which marks the site is situated on
the Santa Barbara waterfront, a block west of the principal wharf,
on property now belonging to Mr. Ole Hanson and to Mr. Charles
Frederick Eaton. The old village site has always been the most
prominent feature of the Santa Barbara beach, and is most famous in
Santa Barbara Indian and Spanish history, but had never been
excavated to any extent previous to the present work.

The great village of Syujtun was mentioned four times in the
Cabrillo account of 1542. Father Crespi writing in 1769 mentions its
population as comprising 500 souls. With the establishment of the
Santa Barbara Mission in 1782 the inhabitants were removed to the
adobe cuarteles provided for them at the mission. The mound became
the ‘beach ranch” of the Franciscans, later the site of the ranch
house of Joseph Chapman, and more recently the property of Lewis
T. Burton. In 1901 Mr. Milo M. Potter built a large hotel on the
mound. In 1921 the hotel, which had been purchased by the Am-
bassador Hotel Corporation, burnt, thus releasing the site again
for scientific study. Through the kind offices of Mr. George G. Heye,
director of the Museum of the American Indian, money was raised
for excavation of the mound by joint arrangement with the Bureau
of American Ethnology.

The results of the excavation of the Indian town of Santa Barbara
proved rich and interesting beyond expectation. The collection, which
comprises more than seven thousand specimens, includes many large
and showy pieces, such as steatite ollas, mortars and metates. Some
of the graves were lined with slabs trimmed from the bones of whales.
Quantities of the mother-of-pearl pendants and ornaments of the
Indians were obtained, as well as shell beads of many types. The
bodies were mostly in crouched position with the head to the north.
In addition to the cemetery, many old wigwam sites were explored
and the outline of the whole settlement slowly and laboriously traced.
In the reef rock or coquina layer of the lower levels of the mound
were found embedded two skeletons which have been reported upon
by Dr. Bruno Oetteking, Physical Anthropologist of the Museum of
NO., 2 SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1924 129

Fic. 131.—Santa Barbara, California, in 1828, showing the Burton Mound in
the foreground (directly back of ship). Earliest extant picture of Santa
Barbara.

Fic. 132——The Burton Mound in 1897. (Painting by Alexander F. Harmer.)
130 SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VOL ii

the American Indian, and on which further studies are now in prog-
ress. The coast of California has undoubtedly been inhabited con-
tinuously for a long period, and the mound forms one of the best
monuments for the study of a stable Indian culture. Associated with
Mr. Harrington in this work are Professor D. B. Rogers, formerly
of the University of Kansas, and Mr. G. W. Bayley.

At the beginning of February Mr. Harrington returned to Washing-
ton, D. C. On April 15 opportunity was afforded for further study
of the Kiowa tribe by the coming to Washington of Eimha’a (Delos

it

Fic. 133.—Metacarpal needles from Burton Mound. These occur ready-made,
except for boring and rounding the head, in the fetlock of the California mule
deer. One of the most unique discoveries among the artifacts.

kK. Lonewolf), adopted son of the former head chief of the tribe, and
Seitmante™ (George Hunt), one of the chief men of the tribe. Work
with them was continued until May 21, yielding a great mass of
ethnological and mythological material.

The true inner history of the suppression of the Kato or Sun Dance
of the Kiowa was secured. The ethnological data of Mooney’s Cal-
endar History of the Kiowas were corrected. The myths obtained
are without exception pretty and well told. They are as follows:

(1) The Seven Star Girls. This myth accounts for the huge pillar
of rock known as the Devil’s Tower, 20 miles southeast of Sun Dance,
NO. 2 SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1924 131

Fic. 134.—Eimha’a, “ Rescuer” (Delos K. Lonewolf), Kiowa informant.
132 SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VOL 77

Fic. 135.—Seitmante”, “ Bear Paw” (George Hunt), Kiowa informant.
NO. 2 SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1924 133

Wyoming, and takes us back to the ancient period when the Kiowa
held the Black Hills. The girls became the Pleiades. (2) Seindei
(the culture hero) Jumps across the Missouri River. (3) Seindet
and the Bear. (4) Seindei and the Quails. (5) Seindei and the
Four Pemmican Brothers. (6) Seindei Meets Whirlwind Girl.
(7) Seindei Invites the Woodpeckers. (8) How Crow Became
Black. (9) The Loosing of the Buffaloes. A remarkable story of how
Seindei visits the keeper of the buffaloes. (10) Seindei and the Prairie
Dogs. (11) Seindei and Coyote. (12) Seindei and the Rabbit.
(13) Seindei and the Turkey. (14) Seindei and the Mountain Ghosts.
Seindei induced the Mountain Ghosts to take out their hearts and
to lay them in a pile when they visited a place where they were likely
to become scared. In this way he eliminated these powerful demons
from the earth.

Old hunting and fighting stories were also obtained, including a
long account of a raid in Mexico.

ETHNOLOGICAL RESEARCHES AMONG THE FOX INDIANS, IOWA

Dr. Michelson left Washington towards the close of May and pro-
ceeded to Tama, Iowa, to renew his researches among the Fox (Mesk-
wakie) Indians. He devoted especial attention to the various gens
festivals, for example, the White Wolf Dance of the War Gens.
Some texts on a number of sacred packs were translated. A good deal
of general ethnology was obtained in both syllabary texts and transla-
tions. Some of this included the regulations of various gentes and
societies. Additional information on the White Buffalo Dance and
mortuary customs and beliefs was secured in time to be incorporated
in the goth Annual Report of the Bureau of American Ethnology
(now in galley-proof). In his spare time Dr. Michelson gathered
quite a little Winnebago and Potawatomi ethnological data from
the small group of each of these tribes which habitually stays at
Tama with the Fox. The data on the first largely corroborates that
given by Dr. Radin in the 37th Annual Report of the Bureau of
American Ethnology, and in some instances supplements it. The data
on the Potawatomi is important as showing that among this tribe
there are close correspondents to the Fox gens festivals. Towards
the close of June Dr. Michelson returned to Washington.

A brief explanation of some of the ethnological data in the pre-
ceeding paragraph may not be inappropriate. The Foxes are organized
in a number of exogamic totemic groups. These groups are named
after animals for the most part. e. g., Bear, Wolf, Eagle. Male
134 SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VOL. 77

members of these groups had a special hair-cut, appropriate only to
their own groups. Personal names showed to which group the
owner belonged; however, occasionally a person might be named

Fic. 136—Fox mat of rushes, used for exterior of wigwams, etc., being made
by Mrs. Charley Keyosatuck. (Photograph by Michelson. )

by another than his or her father ; in this case the person would have
a personal name appropriate to the gens of the namer, but would
belong to the gens of his or her father unless it had been stipulated
at the time that the person should belong to the gens of the namer.
NO. 2 SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1924 135

These various gentes owned one or more sacred packs (not to be
confused with individual personal packs) connected with an appropri-
ate ritual and dance; also they had special songs to be sung the night

Fic. 137.—Fox bag made of bass-wood, in the process of construction
(Photograph by Michelson.)

preceding the burial of the dead, and one or two special features in
burial customs. At least two possessed definite paints appropriate to
themselves (Bear gens, green paint; War gens, red paint). Some of
these gentes had subdivisions, and in such cases one of the sub-
136 SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VOL 7,

divisions ranked higher than the other or others. Thus the Bear gens
is composed of the Black Bears and Yellow (Brown) Bears; the
tribal chieftainship was in the Black Bear division of Bear gens. This
is why some Fox Indians objected to Pushitoniqua (the last chief
recognized by the federal government), because he was of the wrong
division of the Bear gens. The sacred packs were used especially in
war. With appropriate songs and rituals one could become invisible ;
the bullets of the foe would not hit their mark; wide rivers would
become narrow so one could retreat if hard pressed by the foe; etc.
The packs are supposed to be acquired by fasting in the wilderness
when various manitous would take pity on those fasting and bestow

blessings.

Fig. 138.—Fox bark-house of elm. Harry Lincoln is standing at the
door-way. (Photograph by Michelson. )
SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS
VOLUME 78, NUMBER 1

| EXPLORATIONS AND FIELD-WORK OF THE
| SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION
IN 1995

(PUBLICATION 2865)

CITY OF WASHINGTON
PUBLISHED BY THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

1926
a
¢
;

y
i
>
¥
i
H

:

SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS
VOLUME 78, NUMBER 1

EXPLORATIONS AND FIELD-WORK OF THE
SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION
IN 1925

(PUBLICATION 2865)

CITY CF WASHINGTON
PUBLISHED BY THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION
1926
The Lord Waltimore Press

BALTIMORE, MD., U. S. A.
CONTENTS

Ea CHTGELOMMMA ST Part ese hee ee eee oe, Tete OEE, m2) a a Reda ee ad I

Geological Explorations in the Canadian Rockies (Dr. Charles D. Waicott) 1

Field-Work in Structural Geology in Tennessee (Dr. R. S. Bassler)...... 9
Geological Field-Work in Central New York (Mr. Erwin R. Pohl)...... 13
Geological Field-Work in Europe (Dr. Charles E. Resser).............. 16
Collecting Fossil Footprints in Arizona (Mr. Charles W. Gilmore)....... 20
Investigation of Glacial Deposits near Des Moines, Iowa (Dr, James W.

(Giralllese)) -o Eats tees ec cl to a eS Oe oc cc ery Dee Pern Eel OL He Cyne ee nora 23
Investigation of Evidences of Early Man at Melbourne and Vero, Florida

GDipeiamese Vee Gidll eye) eeresrersied ioctl cco Soatia ao ee SNe wae ce 23
Exploration of a Pleistocene Spring-deposit in Oklahoma (Dr. James W.

SKIES OS, 00 RIS ER tare 27
Aield-VWViork mi Astrophysics (Dr: Charles G. Abbot) .............-.....-. 28
Biological Explorations in Western China (Rev. David C. Graham)...... ail
Exploration of Haitian Caves. (Dr: Gerrit S.. Miller, Jr.) ...........0..5. 36
Marine Invertebrate Studies at the Tortugas (Dr. Waldo L. Schmitt)..... 40
Study of the Crustaceans of South America (Dr. Waldo L. Schmitt).... 40
Experiments in Cerion-breeding at the Tortugas (Dr. Paul Bartsch)..... 44
Botanical Expedition to Brazil (Mrs. Agnes Chase)........2...00c.00c0- 48
Botanical Investigations at European Museums (Mr. E. P. Killip)....... 53
Anthropological Studies in Southern Asia, Java, Australia, and South

Pica (NT Nes Et rellickial ys st cloee acho. fh ol ad eecelact. vs st Gdoadicas care 50
Archeological Investigations at Pueblo Bonito and Pueblo Del Arroyo,

Mew eviexicor (Mine INeneMin amd i 5.5220 som ecko. eee ede ones 80
Archeological and Anthropometrical Work in Mississippi (Mr. Henry B.

SoD) Sy 8 Por RR one her CeCe aan Po cee | ode 89
Archeological Studies of the Wupatki National Monument (Dr. J. Walter

LE ERIN SSS i es, is aetna eye ed SY sect aoe ne en a Oe i a em 06
Researches on the Archeology of Southern California (Mr. J. P.

[FEU BSTETW OVS Oy OT))® es epeatth Gere eRied Gees ies GA CE SRR eT ea ae I ae 106
Studies of the Fox and Ojibwa Indians (Dr. Truman Michelson)........ III
Ethnological Researches among the Iroquois and Chippewa (Mr. J. N. B.

LEU) NP Ea Seek ete ke en rs See ae A 114
Ethnological Work among the Osage of Oklahoma (Mr. Francis La

JEN@SCIIG)) 1" 5 e'g die thars dss o Selo ttalo c'a Woo Sip Be CRESS Ee Sip tc Seen an ee 117
Studies of Indian Music among the Menominee of Wisconsin (Miss

eran CeswmD en SimOne)) es say ciet era eae ee ia oe cee oc teers wun se ebeoe IIQ

Investigation of Shell and Sand Mounds on Pinellas Peninsula, Florida
Ovi Davide: eBushimellieiir \iee ce aes sacs <. oo slots one cate ee Saas 125
Skoki Mt, (ago feet)

Skoki Pass Ptarmigan Peak (10,080 feet) Pika Peak (10,115 feet) Pipestone River Can

°

aS gt — a

—— . i -
Fig. 1—Panoramie view from the north slope of Skoki Pass and west slope of Fossil Mountain from a point 8900 feet (2,438.4 m.) in elevation, and 8 miles (12.9 km.) in anair line northeast of I Louise Station on the Canadian Pacific Railway, Alberta, Canada. The view from left to right includes Skoki Pass, the northward facing cliffs of Ptarmigan Peak (10,080 feet, 3,072.4 m.) and Pika Peak (10,115 feet, 9,083.1 m.) to the left of Ptarmigan glacier and on the right of the glacier the high northeast ridge that extend
to the canyon of Little Pipestone River. Then the broad canyon valley of Pipestone River and far to the north the snow clad summit of Cataract Peak (9,444 feet, 2.8785 m.). On the right the sharp ridge of Skoki Mountain (8,250 feet, 2,514.6 m.) and in the distance the snow cap of Mt. McConnell (10,000 fect, 3,048 m.). At Skoki Pass the quartzites of the Lower Cambrian are superjacent to the arenaceous shales of the Pre-Cambrian Hector formation. The cliffs above the small upper lake are composed of hard, thiek

bedded, Middle Cambrian limestones. (C. D. Walcott, 1025.)

; ro 7 ‘ 7
iy 7 i ;
= | : f

Skoki Pass

ee
fee!
;

;

Fic. 1.—Panoramic view from the north slope o
to the canyon of Little Pipestone River. Then the b
bedded, Middle Cambrian limestones. (C. D. Walco
EXPLORATIONS AND FIELD-WORK OF THE
SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION IN 1925

INTRODUCTION

The functions of the Smithsonian Institution as stipulated by the
will of the founder, James Smithson, are “ the increase and diffusion
of knowledge among men.” In its endeavor to increase the sum of
human knowledge, the Institution conducts researches and explora-
tions, the latter particularly in regions of the earth which have not
yet been thoroughly investigated. As the founder’s will did not
discriminate in favor of any particular branch of science, the Institu-
tion endeavors to be partial to none, and its activities have covered
geology, biology, and anthropology, with all of their various subdi-
visions ; astrophysics, aeronautics, physics, and chemistry. The pres-
ent pamphlet is intended to present in‘ brief form, illustrated, the
purpose and results of the expeditions in the field during 1925.
The very limited income of the Institution from its private endow-
ment does not permit of a comprehensive, coordinated program of
exploration, and it therefore takes whatever opportunity offers to
cooperate with other agencies in sending out field expeditions. The
accounts, although written in the third person, are prepared for the
most part by the explorers themselves, and the pictures are taken by
them in the field.

GEOLOGICAL EXPLORATIONS IN THE CANADIAN ROCKIES

In continuation of geological field-work in the Canadian Rockies,
Secretary Charles D. Walcott left Lake Louise Station, Alberta, on
the Canadian Pacific Railway on July 9 with a camp outfit and pack
horses. The field season was even more unfavorable than that of
1924. Smoke from extensive forest fires west and north of the
mountain area north and east of Lake Louise interfered with
photography during July and the first half of August. An eddy,
or dead area in the atmosphere, hung over the mountains for several
weeks, and then, after a severe gale of several days’ duration, snow
began falling on August 21, blanketing the canyon valleys with a
depth of from 12 to 16 inches (fig. 9) and the mountain slopes with

SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS, VOL. 78, No. 1
eee
SS

Ceeor Hoje Ay CL) Cseuojsoulty Ueiiqmie) ppl) UlezunoO;y quopoy pue “(sopizjivnb UviIquie JOMO"T ——_—-—~
YM podded uviique)-I1g) uleyUunOyy o}ZjAeNG ‘(Sseuojsouny URIUOAC ) UlejUNnO]Y podoryoesg ‘Wy sit 0} Ja] WoT —e “DLT

= =e a no = ay ae 7 =, i —

COLLECTIONS

IN Iqnopay VN 931Z}1eNG 3X podomoerig

(‘Sz61 ‘Oe ‘G ‘D) ‘epeuey ‘eyoq¢ry ‘Aemprey
oytoed uUeipeue’) dy} UO UOTR}S VsInNOT] dyAe’T FO JSvoy}soU ("WY Qc) Soytuut JYyslo ‘UOTLAV]O (“UW gtr'z) J99} O0O'R JB ‘OyeT] Jayeq
dAOqe UleUNOY [ISSO JO adojs jsvoyyNOS dy} UO yurod eB OI, UIP] ‘anbaly) pue UIRJUNOJY PezftL JO MOIA olUUeIOUeY—<e ‘DIS

4

Ens

MISCELLANEOUS

SMITHSONIAN

N

Belt 2

andar IN PHIL

iti sis a ele neem
INO ol SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1925

nw

Fic. 4.—Close up view of Tilted Mountain Cirque showing the limestones
of the Middle Cambrian Eldon formation thrust against the Devonian lime-
stones at the head of the Cirque. The locality is 8.5 miles (13.7 km.) in an
air line northeast of Lake Louise Station on the Canadian Pacific Railway.
(C. D. Walcott, 1925.)

SPEER ee ren ig 7 - - n PEE:
Y * c - 4

el ae :
Cee

Fic. 5.—Looking over Ptarmigan Lake and Bow Valley to the Mt. Victoria
massif, 12 miles (19.3 km.) southwest of Ptarmigan Lake. The mountains
in the vicinity of Lake Louise are finely shown in this view, also the rounded
hills and slopes of Pre-Cambrian rocks on the north side of Bow Valley.
The view was taken from south side of Skoki Pass on the southeast slope
of Fossil Mountain at 8,000 feet (2,438.4 m.) elevation and 8 miles (12.9
km.) in an air line northeast of Lake Louise Station on the Canadian Pacific
Railway, Alberta, Canada. (C. D. Walcott, 1925. )
4 SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VOL. 78

Fic. 6.—South side of Skoki Mountain from a point 8.5 miles (13.7 km.)
in an air line northeast of Lake Louise Station on the Canadian Pacific
Railway, Alberta, Canada.

The mountain is formed of fossiliferous Middle Devonian limestones to
about half-way down the slope on the right side, where the subjacent Silu-
rian and Lower Ordovician, Sarbach formation, is exposed. (C. D. Walcott,

1925.) »

Fic. 7—Mounts McBride and Douglas reflected in the Red Deer_River
at a point 14 miles (22.5 km.) in an air line northeast of Lake Louise Station
on the Canadian Pacific Railway, Alberta, Canada. (Mary Vaux Walcott,
1925. )
NO: I SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1925

cot

Fic. 8.—A fine summer day in camp at south base of Skoki Mountain
on afternoon of August 21, 1925 (see figure 9).

Skoki Miountain camp site is 9 miles (14.5 km.) in an air line northeast
of Lake Louise Station on the Canadian Pacific Railway, Alberta, Canada.
(C. D. Walcott, 1925.

Fic. 9.—Skoki camp on morning of August 22 (see figure 8).
6) SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VOL. 78

a gradually increasing depth up to 30 inches on the passes just above
timber line.

Snow squalls followed nearly every afternoon until August 30,
when camp was moved from between Fossil and Skoki Mountains
to below the pass at the head of Johnston Creek Canyon. Snow came
again on September 5, 9, and 18. Secretary and Mrs. Walcott re-
turned to Lake Louise Station, packed their collections and left for
Washington on September 21, which was the most beautiful day of

Fic. 10.—Looking south down Johnston Canyon from divide at its head,
which is formed of limestones of the Ordovician Sarbach formation, in
which the canyon has been largely eroded. See figure 2. (Mary Vaux
Walcott, 1925.)

the season. Only eight camps were made while on the trail. It was
more through good fortune than favorable conditions that a fine
series of fossils from critical horizons in the great lower Paleozoic
section north of Bow Valley was discovered and collected. These
fossils increase our knowledge of the history and life of the Cor-
dilleran Sea of this time and afford the data for comparison with life
and conditions in the Appalachian Trough and the great upper
Mississippi embayment of Upper Cambrian time.

In the interval between the snow storms of September 5 and 9
several new fossil zones were found in the Lower Ordovician rocks
NO. I SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1925 7

of the Johnston-Wild Flower Canyon Pass section, and also in the
Upper Cambrian west of Badger Pass. The latter find enabled
Dr. Walcott to identify the Arctomys formation of the Glacier Lake
section and to clear up the uncertainty as to the position of the strata
hitherto referred to the lower portion of the Bosworth formation.

Fic. 11.—Pedicularis contorta Benth. Alpine lousewort.
(Mary Vaux Walcott, 1925.)

Mrs. Walcott secured a few water-color sketches of wild flowers
at the camp in the open area of the upper Ptarmigan Canyon, but the
storm of August 21 killed all but a few hardy asters and paint-brushes.

Mountain sheep were seen on the mountains about the head of
Johnston Creek, but the rain and snow storms made it difficult to
secure fine specimens desired for a group in the National Museum.
One fairly good ram and a badly damaged ewe were secured, as
8 SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VOL. 78

*

7a +? y,

ras em

Fic. 13.—Linnaea americana Forbes. Twin-flower.
(Mary Vaux Walcott, 1925.)
NO. I SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1925 9

well as a mule deer, which, when shot, rushed down the Canyon side
and broke its fine horns in landing upon a mass of broken rock.

This year probably completes the field-work in the Canadian
Rockies. A few of the problems encountered have been cleared up
in the past nine years, but many remain to be studied by young, well-
trained men with strong hearts, vigorous muscles, and the high pur-
pose of the research student seeking to discover the truth regarding
the development of the North American Continent and of the life
of the waters in which the miles in thickness of sands, clay, and limey
muds accumulated during a period of several million years of lower
Paleozoic time.

Mrs. Walcott has sketched over 350 species of wild flowers during
the past 20 seasons, and she and Dr. Walcott now wish to work in
the mountains and valleys of southern Nevada and adjoining areas of
California, where climatic and physical conditions and life, both
animal and vegetable, are in strong contrast with those of the
Canadian Rocky Mountains, but where the problems in which
Dr. Walcott is interested in connection with the Cambrian forma-
tions of the Cordilleran area are essentially of the same order.

Acknowledgments Commissioner J. B, Harkin and the members
of the Canadian National Parks Service gave their hearty coopera-
tion. The effective assistance of the officers and employees of the
Canadian Pacific Railway permitted a saving of time and conserva-
tion of energy, and grants from the O. C. Marsh and Joseph Henry
endowment funds of the National Academy of Sciences were of
great assistance. To all, sincere thanks are returned and apprecia-
tion is expressed for the cooperation that has been given over a
period of years to make Dr. Walcott’s work more successful than
it would otherwise have been.

FIELD-WORK IN STRUCTURAL GEOLOGY IN TENNESSEE

During August and a part of September, 1925, Dr. R. S. Bassler,
curator of paleontology, U. S. National Museum, continued his
studies in the Central Basin and Highland Rim areas of Tennessee
in cooperation, as in previous years, with the Tennessee Geological
Survey. For several seasons past, he has been engaged in working
out the detailed stratigraphy of these two physiographic provinces,
in mapping certain areas of particular scientific and economic inter-
est and in collecting the faunas of the various Paleozoic formations
outcropping in this part of the state. By 1925, sufficient geologic
knowledge had been accumulated to make possible the determina-
ie) SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VOL. 7

Meche

bef

Fic. 14.—Outcrop of New Providence shale followed unconformably by
Fort Payne chert, illustrating submarine erosion. Eagle Creek, northeast
of Livingston, Tennessee. (Photograph by Bassler.)

Fic. 15.—Fort Payne chert with overlying Warsaw formation, Tullahoma,
Tennessee. (Photograph by Bassler.)
NO. I SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1925 Wea

tion of interesting structural features indicating discordant relations
and areal restrictions in rock formations which had hitherto been
thought to be essentially horizontal, widespread, and conformable
with each other.

At various times during the Paleozoic era, the area now termed
the Central Basin was uplifted above the sea as a low dome—the
Nashville Dome, as it is generally known—the rocks sloping gently
away on all sides. At times this dome was submerged partially
or entirely, the deposits remaining of those then formed showing
the extent of such submergences. At other times, the sea invaded
the area only in bay-like indentations in which rocks of various
interesting types were laid down. The resulting rock deposits hold
the story of these various invasions of the Nashville Dome, but the
strata, mainly limestone and shale, are so much alike that detailed
preliminary studies had to be undertaken before the formations
and their extent could be satisfactorily discriminated and mapped.
From such studies in previous seasons it was determined, for ex-
ample, that the Bigby limestone of Middle Ordovician age, the
source of much of the Tennessee brown phosphate, was deposited
in an arm of the sea which covered only the southwestern and
western parts of the Nashville Dome. The succeeding massive Cannon
limestone was developed, on the contrary, in a broad embayment
occupying the eastern two-thirds of the dome, in which it varies
in thickness from an inch or two along the ancient western shore
line to several hundred feet along the eastern side of the basin.
The Early Silurian, Richmond formation, also proved to have been
formed in similar but much narrower bays entering the dome on
the northern, western, and southern sides. The relative narrow-
ness of these embayments as contrasted with the preceding Bigby
and Cannon limestone bays indicates decided warping or wrinkling
of the surface during the transition from the Ordovician to the
Silurian. These restricted Richmond areas are also notable for
their iron ores and marble deposits. The later Silurian, Devonian,
and, Early Mississippian formations, in many cases, were deposited
in similarly restricted areas.

The occurrence and thickness of an Early Mississippian forma-
tion accumulated in one of these ancient narrow bays is illustrated
in figure 14, showing the New Providence shale, a celebrated crinoid-
bearing formation. Here, however, another structural feature 1s
shown in that the horizontal strata of the New Providence shale
are obliquely cut across by rocks of the overlying formation of
14 SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VOL. 78

Fic. 16.—Chattanooga black shale with channel occupied by Fort Payne
chert, east of Woodbury, Tennessee. (Photograph by Bassler.)

Pic. 17—Eastern Highland Rim viewed from top of Cumberland Plateau
near Sewanee, Tennessee. (Photograph by Bassler. )
NO. I SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1925 13

Fort Payne chert. The edges of the lower formation are clean
cut and show no signs of weathered products due to subaerial de-
composition, so that this seems a true case of submarine erosion.

Viewed in most exposures, the Fort Payne chert of Keokuk age
appears to be conformable with the overlying Warsaw limestone
but that there was an actual time break, locally indicated by an
angular unconformity, is shown in figure 15. Here the lower for-
mation has been tilted at a slight angle and the edges of the strata
worn oft before the rocks of the newer formation were laid down
upon it. A still different structural type is illustrated in figure 16,
which shows the Fort Payne chert resting directly on the Early
Mississippian Chattanooga black shale, the unconformity between
the two being recorded’ elsewhere by 500 feet or more of shales and
limestones included in the Ridgetop and New Providence forma-
tions which were absent at this place. The particular interest of
this exposure is that the Chattanooga shale developed a sharply
defined channel in its top, either through fracturing or erosion, in
which the Fort Payne chert was deposited normally. The structure
of the Eastern Highland Rim near its junction with the Cumberland
Plateau was also studied. The Highland Rim forms a rolling up-
land averaging 1,200 feet in altitude and the Cumberland Plateau,
another marked upland area, 700 feet higher. In this part of the
State, the Highland Rim is traversed as shown in figure 17, by
low ridges which, as a rule, are due to structural features in the
underlying formations. These ridges, in most cases, are capped by
hard sandstone and indicate areas of slightly downfolded strata
where the general level of erosion has not proceeded far enough
to entirely remove the resistant rock.

Tennessee is uniquely situated for the study of stratigraphic
geology, and the State has long been classic ground. Starting with
the Blue Ridge system on the east and extending westward to the
Mississippi flood plain, it comprises many physiographic provinces
with the underlying strata embracing almost all the divisions of the
geologic column. Most of these strata are highly fossiliferous and
perhaps nowhere else can the development of life be studied to
better advantage.

GEOLOGICAL FIELD-WORK IN CENTRAL NEW YORK

The division of paleontology of the U. S. National Museum
contains great collections of Devonian fossils from the classic New
York areas, obtained years ago when the present methods of record-

2
14 SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VOL. 78

ing very exact data as to precise horizon and locality were not
observed, To make these collections of scientific value, such detailed
information must be supplied. Towards this end, Erwin R. Pohl,
of the division, spent several weeks in the summer of 1925 at the
noted section along Kashong Creek near Bellona, New York, where
the shales and limestone formations of the Middle Devonian rang-
ing from the Marcellus at the base of the Hamilton through the
Ludlowville, the Tichenor and Moscow divisions and passing into
the overlying Tully limestone and Genesee black shale of Upper
Devonian age, are well developed in splendid outcrops. Most of
these formations abound in fossils and, as a result of the trip, half

Fic. 18.—Contact between Tichenor limestone (T) and Moscow shale,
Kashong Creek, New York. (Photograph by Pohl.)

a ton of carefully selected material was obtained. Photographs
of these formations, illustrating the stratigraphy and the opportu-
nities for collecting, are shown herewith (figs. 18 and 19).

The Kashong Creek section starts at the shore of Seneca Lake and
outcrops in the steep winding banks of the creek for more than three
miles upstream to Bellona, 300 feet above the level of the lake.
At several intervals the harder sandstone and limestone layers form
waterfalls of some beauty. Except in the stream gorge, the region
is very heavily wooded so that the collector is confined to the creek
bed to penetrate the country. The section is not continuous and as
the strata are folded in broad undulations and many of the beds
have a lithologic similarity, correlation of the rock is sometimes
quite difficult.
NO... 1 SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1925 15

Fic. 19—First falls in Kashong Creek, New York, showing Tully limestone
(T) overlying Moscow shale. (Photograph by Pohl.)

Fic. 20.—Genesee black shale overlying the Tully limestone (1). Kashong
Creek, New York. (Photograph by Pohl.)
16 SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VOL. 78

The black shales of the Ludlowville division of the Hamilton
were found to contain often myriads of small brachiopods and
pelecypods. The Tichenor limestone forming the base of the Hamil-
ton is also extremely fossiliferous while the Moscow shales above,
abounding in fossils, can be distinguished by their slightly grayer
color. Then comes a gap in sedimentation, for the Tully limestone,
forming the base of the Upper Devonian, is separated from the
underlying Moscow shale by an unconformity. The very charac-
teristic blocky Genesee shales follow the Tully limestone as shown
in figure 20.

Abundant collections were made in all the fossiliferous zones
and with their help, it has been found possible to accurately place
in this section most of the many fossils in the Museum’s series
previously obtained from this area.

GEOLOGICAL FIELD-WORK IN EUROPE

Dr. Charles E. Resser, associate curator of paleontology, U. S.
National Museum and Dr, E. O. Ulrich, associate in paleontology,
were members of the Smithsonian-Princeton expedition to Europe
during the summer of 1925 for the purpose of studying the more
important outcrops of the lower Paleozoic beds. The other mem-
bers of the party were Prof. R. M. Field and Mr. R. M. Fulle of
Princeton University and Mr. R. J. Beede of Williams College.
Prof. Field kindly offered the use of his automobile, which made
it possible to get about readily and to reach many places off the
usual travel routes. The route followed by the party covered more
than 7,500 miles by automobile alone, through central England,
Wales, and the extreme north coast of Scotland, the Scandinavian
countries, Germany, Czechoslovakia, Austria, Switzerland, and
France.

Work was begun in Shropshire, where Mr. Edgar Sterling Cob-
bold of Church Stretton conducted the party to the various localities
at which he has done much valuable geological work. A few days
later he was again the guide to the famous Stiper Stones region on
the west side of the Longmynds. Some time was spent also in
studying the sections along the Onny River, in company with Mr.
B. B. Bancroft. In Wales, Prof. T. C. Nicholas of Cambridge
and Prof. O. T. Jones of Manchester guided the party about the
Harlech Dome, on St. Tudwals Peninsula and in Central Wales. At
Durness, on the extreme northwest coast of Scotland, a large series
NO. I SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1925 17
of limestone beds were next visited which have been of special
interest for many years because their contained faunas are American
rather than European.

The automobile was then transported across the North Sea to
Oslo, whence the party was guided by Prof. Olaf Holtedahl to the
famous localities on Christiania Bay. After the very brief stay in
Norway, the party proceeded to Vanersborg, Sweden, where it was
met by Dr. A. H. Westergaard, detailed by the Swedish Geological
Survey to be the guide in that country. Several weeks were spent
studying the outcrops in the hills of the region about Lake Vanern

Fic. 21—Professors O. T. Jones and T. C. Nicholas discussing the
geology along the Rhayder River in Wales, with Dr. Ulrich. (Photograph
by Resser. )

and to the south in the ancient alum quarries of Andrarum. The
whole of southern Sweden has been heavily glaciated, but prior to
the coming of the ice it was eroded down to the fairly flat granite
floor. At a few places some of the soft, black, flat-lying Cambrian
shales with a little Ordovician limestone have been preserved in
low, lava-capped hills. Lenses of black, ill-smelling limestone, usu-
ally highly fossiliferous, occur in the black shales. Many hundreds
of years ago quarries were begun here for the sake of this lime.
Prior to 1800 wood was used in its burning but since that date
the shale itself has been used, for it contains so much carbonaceous
matter and sulphur that it serves the purpose well.

There were no particular objectives between Sweden and _ the
Bohemian Basin near Prague, and therefore the intervening regions
VOL. 78

COLLECTIONS

Ss

=
)

MISCELLANEOU

SMITHSONIAN

18

(‘tossay Aq ydeis
-OJ0Yq) ‘d19l] UMOYS [JAM SI Sattas SITY} JO
JopRivys sy yp, “WyOYUIOG Ul spaq uvIiquie)
IIMOT 94} JO dosdynoO suYy ATA B FO JUOIF Ul
Suipueys Usas]nog uerysiyy) “Aq—te ‘yy

PS aT MGM re ee

surAirenb oy} Aq oprutr SABO JO sporpuny
ay} Jo suo JO Sutuado ay} SI ajoy YArIep oy fp
‘eyeljJS UeIyIeZQ pue UelIque) 94} UI9M}
-9q JOR}JUOD 9Y} SUT}BOIPUL ST YOII[ “Aq pure
punOIS91OF Ul SUIPUR}S SI PIeRS19}SI9\\ “HV
‘Iq ‘Uapams ‘sioqsiouRA Jesu siaqouuny}{
[fy poddeo-var, snowezy 94} JFO 9dvF DUO
SUIWUIOF YI IY} JO uosod W—cze “Oly

NO. I SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1925 19

were traversed rapidly. At Prague the geologists again offered
every courtesy, and Dr. Jan Koliha of the famous Barrandeum
Museum and Dr. Radim Kettner of the Geological Survey served as
efficient guides to Barrande’s classic sections. In the Museum one
can see the first trilobite ever described, just too years ago, From
Czechoslovakia the journey led to Ziirich, where Dr. Ulrich remained.
The rest of the party continued across the Jura Mountains and the
Central Massif of France to Les Eyzies in the Dordogne country.
Several days were spent in investigating the abris and caves in
which remains of fossil man are preserved.

Fic. 24.—Crossing the ferry on the Beraun river near Skrej, Czecho-
slovakia. Dr. R. Kettner is just about to step onto the ferry. (Photograph
by Resser.)

As it was necessary for the Princeton members to return at the
end of August, the party was finally disbanded at Paris and Prof.
Field returned with the automobile to Liverpool. Dr, Resser then
proceeded to Frankfurt-am-Main, in Germany, to visit Dr. and
Mrs. Rudolf Richter who have been active workers in paleontology
during the last ten years, producing much excellent work.

From Frankfurt he then returned to Copenhagen and in com-
pany with Dr. Christian Poulsen of the Mineralogical Museum,
made a visit to the island of Bornholm in the Baltic Sea. The island
consists of a granitic mass with younger and softer rocks on the
southern margin, the whole having been very heavily glaciated.

Several hundred pounds of selected fossils were collected and
sent to the National Museum, a number of valuable gifts were
secured, and exchanges were arranged.
20 SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VOL. 78

COLLECTING FOSSIL FOOTPRINTS IN ARIZONA

Mr. Charles W. Gilmore, curator of the division of vertebrate
paleontology, U. S. National Museum, by arrangement with the
National Park Service and through the generosity of some of its
friends, was enabled to visit the Grand Canyon for the purpose of
making a collection of fossil footprints, and at the same time to
prepare a permanent exhibit of these footprints im situ by the side
of the famous Hermit Trail. Both of these undertakings were suc-
cessfully carried out.

A series of slabs, some 1,700 pounds in weight, carrying good
examples of the various kinds of imprints occurring there, were
collected and shipped to the Museum. The tracks occur in the
Coconino sandstone in Hermit Basin, on the trail down to Her-
mit Camp and from goo to 1,080 feet below the rim of the Can-
yon. Their excellent preservation and variety of kind, coupled
with their great antiquity, make this collection of more than usual
interest. Preliminary study of the tracks has demonstrated that
they represent not only a new Ichnite fauna, but probably the best
preserved and most extensive series of Permian footprints known
anywhere in the world.

It was found that the natural conditions were most favorable for
the preparation of an exhibit of fossil tracks in situ. The rather
steep slope of the sandstone on whose surfaces the tracks are im-
pressed stands at an inclination of 30° facing toward the Hermit
trail, over which in the course of the year hundreds of tourists
travel on mule back in making their pilgrimage to the bottom of
the Grand Canyon. The upper layers of the sandstone cleared
off in large sheets, thus uncovering whatever tracks and trails
there were to be found beneath. The work of preparing this
exhibit consisted, therefore, of removing the overburden of loose
dirt and broken rock, then quarrying off the loose upper laminae
until a solid and continuous face covered with footprints was reached.
This was done, and a smooth surface 8 feet wide and 25 feet long
was carefully uncovered as shown in figure 25.

At the side of the slab leading up from the trail, a series of
stone steps was laid in order to facilitate examination by those
interested in the footprints covering its surface. Although this
slab constituted the main exhibit, other large surfaces were similarly
uncovered, so that in all there are several hundred square feet of
rock surface showing imprints of feet, thus forming a permanent
exhibit of the various tracks and trails to be found here.
IN@. J SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1925 2ii

The great antiquity of these footprints is clearly demonstrated
at this locality, for it is evident that since the day when those ani-
mals impressed their feet in what at that time was moist sand, more
than 1,000 feet of rock-making materials were piled up in successive

Fic. 25.—Slab of fossil footprints im situ on the
Hermit Trail, Grand Canyon National Park.
(Photograph by Gilmore. )

strata above them and this does not take into account many hundreds
of feet more that have been eroded off the present top of the canyon
wall.

The great length of time necessary for the cutting away or erosion
of the rock to form the deep canyon and the even longer time
necessary for the original deposition of this great vertical mass of
Fic. 26.—Barobezia eakin, new species of fossil foctprints.
Crossed diagonally by track of Laoporus nobeli Lull.
NO. I SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1925 23

stone when translated into terms of years, if that were possible,
would be so stupendous as to be almost beyond human compre-
hension.

This unique exhibit gives a very definite impression of the great
antiquity of the animal life that made these tracks, and it 1s hoped
that as an example it will stimulate the preparation and preservation
of other natural phenomena in our government controlled parks,
monuments, and reservations.

INVESTIGATION OF GLACIAL DEPOSITS NEAR DES MOINES,
IOWA

In April, 1925, Dr. James W. Gidley, assistant curator, division of
fossil vertebrates, U. S. National Museum, was detailed under the
auspices of the Bureau of American Ethnology to investigate an
alleged discovery of artifacts at Adel, Iowa. At Des Moines,
Dr. Gidley was joined by Dr. James H. Lees, assistant state geologist
of Iowa, who aided in the investigation at Adel.

After a study of the locality, the general conclusion reached by
Dr. Lees and Dr. Gidley was that although the artifacts (if such
they are) were found at a level of 24 feet below the original
surface and much below the level of Wisconsin (Upper Pleisto-
cene) drift deposits abundantly exposed at this locality, the beds in
which they were originally deposited are post-Wisconsin in age and
represent a more recently filled stream channel formed perhaps
by the abundant glacial waters coming from the last retreating
glacial ice sheet. As the artifacts were found in a bed of coarse
sand and gravel near the bottom of this ancient stream-channel
fill, however, the time of their burial must have been several thou-
sand years ago.

INVESTIGATION OF EVIDENCES OF EARLY MAN AT
MELBOURNE AND VERO, FLORIDA

The discovery at Vero, Florida, a few years ago of human remains
associated with those of an extinct fauna aroused considerable in-
terest at the time, and since the first publication of the occurrence
by Dr. E. H. Sellards in 1916, there has been much discussion as
to the age of these remains and the manner of their occurrence.
Several prominent men of science have expressed widely divergent
opinions both as to the age of the deposit in which the human bones
were found and as to their normal association with the extinct
24 SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VOL. 78

animal bones with which they were found. More recently a dis-
covery, similar to that at Vero, was made near Melbourne, about
40 miles north of that place. The importance of this new discovery
was recognized, and accordingly Dr. Gidley, under the auspices
of the Bureau of American Ethnology, was detailed to Melbourne,
where with the aid of Mr. C. P. Singleton, a local amateur collec-
tor and the first discoverer of fossil bones in that vicinity, a pre-
liminary investigation was made.

For this investigation, Dr. Gidley left Washington, December 15,
1924, and returned January 4, 1925. This trip resulted in locating

Fic. 27.—North bank of drainage canal about three miles west of Mel-
bourne, Florida. Showing exposures of No. 2 and No. 3 beds and top of
No. 1 bed. (Photograph by Gidley.)

several good prospects and in procuring by gift from Mr. Single-
ton, a fine specimen of the Florida mastodon which included a nearly
complete skull and lower jaws. While in Melbourne, Dr. Gidley
met Prof. F. B. Loomis of Amherst College, who also had come
there to look over these fossil deposits. There followed the formu-
lation of a tentative plan, afterwards approved by the authorities
of Amherst College and the Smithsonian Institution, for a joint
field expedition to more thoroughly explore the localities in the
vicinity of Melbourne and to re-examine the fossil beds at Vero.
This joint expedition, which left Washington on June 21 and re-
turned August 7, met with gratifying success in the way of adding
considerable new evidence to be considered in working out the problem
of early man in Florida,
WwW

1925

XPLORATIONS,

P

I

SMITHSONIAN

I

NO.

‘paeyeg uojsinyy, “S ‘sayy Aq pouMo o}e}s9 UP ‘eplIOopy

(‘Aapry Aq ydessojoyd) “NPIS Ut UOJITOYS SUIMOYS

ype

Auung ,, }e punow jernq uelpuy—6z ‘Ly

(Aatpry Aq ydeisojoyg) ‘suvyjd
JORJUOD AP[NSoII YM ‘oAOGe paq © “ON pue
peq c ‘ON Jo do} surmoysS ‘“pa}ersosse punoy
OJOM S[RUUL JDUT}XO JO SUTRLUAI pue SpoRFIpIe
ueWInY d19YyYM ‘epl4iop,y ‘ouINoqayy FO }saM
-yynos sow €z ynoqe AyypeIo0 [—'ge “Oly

26 SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VOL. 78

On studying the fossil-bearing deposits at both localities, it was
found that the general conditions of deposition in the vicinity
of Melbourne were almost identical with those at Vero, so there
was no difficulty in recognizing over a wide area at Melbourne the
three principal geologic horizons designated by Sellards at Vero
as Nos. I, 2, and 3. This made the correlation of the beds of the
two localities comparatively easy. It was found that at both lo-
calities, all the fossil bones taken from Sellards “ No. 2” layer
were primarily deposited and were definitely of Pleistocene age.
Many of the bones of the lower part of No. 3 were also of this
age but were often mixed with bones of more modern species. Also
that “ No. 3” layer usually lies unconformably upon the somewhat
unevenly eroded surface of “No. 2.” “No. 3” layer throughout
contained numerous evidences of man, apparently of no great an-
tiquity, while no remains of this character were found in the lower
portion at least of “No. 2.” However, at Melbourne there were
found, at three relatively widely separated areas, human bones or
artifacts associated with undisturbed, and not redeposited, fossil
bones of the Pleistocene fauna. These finds were all near the top
of “No. 2” level, just below the contact plane. As no human re-
mains or artifacts were found below the top layer of “No. 2,” it

is assumed that man arrived in Florida about the close of the time
marked by the finished deposition of ‘ No. 2” or during the erosian
interval between it and “ No. 3,” and that he seems to have found
there a late survival of the Pleistocene fauna, certain species of
which may have persisted in the south later than did their relatives
in the north country. To verify these conclusions, a more extensive
and carefully worked out geologic investigation of both localities
should be made, especially along the contact plane between beds
~ Nos.2 andia

This expedition also spent some time in exploring certain of the
ancient Indian shell mounds and burial places of the vicinity. From
these a good collection of well-preserved skulls and skeletons were
obtained. There are many of these ancient Indian mounds in this
part of Florida, but unfortunately the present white inhabitants of
the region are digging them up as fast as located in the hope of
finding buried treasures. Thus is being destroyed what historic and
scientific value these mounds have for the archeologist. At the
present rate it will be only a few years until these burial places of
an interesting ancient people will almost wholly vanish as have the
people who made them.
NO. I SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1925 27

EXPLORATION OF A PLEISTOCENE SPRING-DEPOSIT IN
OKLAHOMA

In October, Dr. Gidley was detailed under the auspices of the
Bureau of American Ethnology to examine a spring deposit in
southwestern Oklahoma. This spring is situated at the base of
Long Horn Mountain, on its southwesterly slope. It is about 14
miles south of Mountain View, and about 40 miles northwest of
Fort Sill, Oklahoma.

The fossil bones had been discovered here in August by an
Indian, Mr. Carl J. Reid Dussomé, while cleaning out the spring

Fic. 30.—Long Horn Spring, about 14 miles south of Mountain View,
Oklahoma, on ranch owned by Miss Reid Dussomé, great granddaughter of
Satanta, a former chief of the Kiowa Indians. Showing excavation above
spring where a “ banner” stone was found associated with remains of Pleis-
tocene animals. (Photograph by Gidley.)

preparatory to enclosing it with concrete in order to get a better
and cleaner flow of water for domestic purposes. Thus, an area
of about 150 square feet was exposed to the bottom of the deposit
which here is only 6 or 7 feet in depth. Additional excava-
tions were made under the direction of Dr. Gidley in October,
which added about 300 square feet to the area explored, The fossil
bones were confined entirely to the lower 18 inches of the stratum
which consists mostly of a black, sticky mud, or clay. The general
results of this exploration seem to be important, although not a
great amount of material was obtained. A small collection of Pleis-
tocene fossils were procured, part being donated by Mr. Reid and
28 SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VOL. 78

part collected by Dr. Gidley. Most important was the finding of a
broken bannerstone, near the bottom of the fossil bone-bearing
layer and in apparently normal immediate association with remains
of an extinct horse, while remains of the mammoth, mastodon, and
mylodon were recovered at the same level a few feet away. The
shallowness of the fossil bone layer, the general character and dis-
position of the deposits, the little altered condition of the fossil
bones and the aspect of the immediate surroundings, all suggest,
however, a not remote antiquity for the origin of this material,
and again raises the question of whether or not a remnant of. the
American Pleistocene fauna may not have survived to a much later
date in the southern border of the United States than has hitherto
been supposed.

FIELD-WORK IN ASTROPHYSICS

With the unanimous endorsement of the National Academy of
Sciences, the Chiefs of the United States and British Weather Ser-
vices, and of several other eminent meteorologists, the Congress of
the United States increased its appropriation for the Astrophysical
Observatory sufficiently to enable the Smithsonian Institution to
continue the solar radiation station at Montezuma, Chile, for the fiscal
year 1926. Hitherto this station has been carried in part by the in-
come of the Hodgkins fund of the Smithsonian Institution and in
part by the grants of Mr. John A. Roebling, who has now discon-
tinued his support, after expending a very large sum on this and
related researches.

The Smithsonian has therefore been able to continue daily obser-
vations of the variation of the sun at two exceptionally cloudless
desert stations. Daily telegrams have been received within 24 hours
after the observations, which indicate the independent results of
the two observatories. This information has been communicated
immediately to Mr. H. H. Clayton, who has continued his studies of
the relations of solar variation to weather. As a test of his results,
he has sent daily solar forecasts to the Institution estimating the
temperature of New York City 3, 4, and 5 days in advance. He has
also sent (3 days before their commencements) forecasts of tem-
perature departures at New York for each week and month.

These results will not be made public as forecasts. They are merely
to enable the Smithsonian Institution to estimate Mr. Clayton’s suc-
cess in these experiments. However, the results hitherto show very
INO}, oT SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1925 29

Fic. 31.—Cottage for observers at the new Table Mountain, California,
station of the Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory.

Fre. 32.—Concrete observing tunnel at Table Mountain, California.

3
30 SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VOL. 78

certainly real prevision on Mr. Clayton’s part, and a gradual increase
in the accuracy of his forecasts. That the forecasts are not even
more close to the event than they are is due to several causes, not
least of which is the imperfect character of the Smithsonian solar
radiation observations.

Our two stations in Arizona and Chile differed on the daily average
by about 0.5 per cent during the past two years. Clayton’s researches
seem to demand a higher degree of accuracy than this. It can only be

Fic. 33.—Mt. North Baldy from the road to the Table Mountain observing
station.

attained by small improvements in various parts of the observations,
by the improvement, if possible, of the existing stations, and by add-
ing new stations of the highest merit.

All three of these improvements are in progress. A complete criti-
cal revision of methods of observation and reduction of solar radia-
tion observations is being made. Through Mr. Roebling’s generosity,
the station at Harqua Hala, Arizona, is being removed to Table
Mountain, California, 2,000 feet higher. A year’s observations at
Table Mountain prove that the sky conditions there will be decidedly
better and the living conditions for observers much more comfortable.

Mr. Moore, the field director, has worked hard and successfully
to make the transfer to Table Mountain which involved buildings,
NO. I SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1925 31

road, water and sewer arrangements, etc. Still, it could not have been
accomplished without the cordial cooperation of the Commissioners
of the Los Angeles County Park in which the new observatory lies.

Finally, the National Geographic Society, realizing that the rela-
tions of solar radiation to weather constitute a highly important world
problem, has made to Dr. Abbot a grant of $55,000 to enable him to
locate a new station in the best possible site in the Eastern Hemi-
sphere, and in cooperation with the Smithsonian Institution to pur-
chase the outfit and carry on the observations for several years. There
should be still a fourth station, and it is hoped that eventually means
may be found to erect and maintain it.

Dr. Abbot, accompanied by Mrs. Abbot, is now making the recon-
naissance in Algeria, Beluchistan and Southwest Africa which seem
to be the most favorable locations, considering cloudlessness, high
altitudes, stable government and convenient transportation.

Four important papers on these researches have been published dur-
ing the year as Numbers 3, 5, 6, and 7 of Volume 77, Smithsonian
Miscellaneous Collections. In addition Dr. Abbot has given a radio
talk and contributed two papers to science and one to the National
Geographic Magazine giving special aspects of the matter.

BIOLOGICAL EXPLORATIONS IN WESTERN CHINA

The Rev. David C. Graham continued his natural history explora-
tions in the province of Szechwan, China, during the year 1925,
collecting material locally in the vicinity of Suifu and occasionally
sending his native hunters to points at some distance from his station.
He had projected a trip to the region of Moupin, a place he was unable
to visit the previous year, but again the presence of bandits in that
vicinity caused him to alter his plans. In fact, his movements during
the year were largely dependent upon civil war and bandit conditions.

After giving up the Moupin project, Mr. Graham decided to go to
Mount Omei, southeast of Kiating, and had begun to pack his outfit
for this trip, when his insect netter returned from a collecting foray
with the information that a band of 80 armed robbers were operating
on the Min River between Suifu and Mount Omei. While again unde-
cided as to his summer’s plans, Mr. Graham was notified about the
middle of June that the local military authority requested all foreign-
ers to go to Kiating together, with a heavy escort for safety. In his
diary, Mr. Graham writes: “The General says that possibly 500
soldiers will have to be sent along with us. Conditions between here
32 SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VOL. 78

and Kiating are the worst they have been for years.” In preparing
for the trip to Kiating, soldiers commandeered Graham’s boat, but
eventually he recovered it, and on June 27 the foreign party, con-
sisting of five boat loads, with twenty cargo boats, started on the
journey.

At Sin Shih Pien, the foreigners were delayed a day or two, and
the officers in charge of the escort compelled them to pay $900.00
for protection to Kiating. On June 29 they left Sin Shih Pien and
at night camped at Nang Chang, on the north side of the stream,
with a band of robbers just across the river. On June 30 they made
further progress, reaching Si Chi, and on July 1 went 4o li to Mal-
intsang, where they learned that the Eighth Regiment had come out
and taken Chien Way. The escort was at war with the Eighth Regi-
ment, and did not dare go any farther. Graham writes: “ We there-
fore arranged to allow them to depart, and for us to go on with some
militia escorting.”

On July 3 the party reached Ho Keo, 20 li from Chien Way, where
they found that civil war had suddenly come upon them again. The
party secured permission to continue on its way, though progress was
rendered difficult by heavy rains, which caused the river to rise sev-
eral feet. On July 5 the party sent a messenger ahead to Kiating, as
they were out of money and nearly out of bread and coolies. Mr.
Graham writes: “I have travelled up the Min River many times,
but this has been the slowest and worst trip I have ever made. This
is due to the cargo boats, to high water, and to the brigands.... .
From Suifu it has been impossible to shoot birds because of brigands
and military operations.” The party reached Kiating on July 7, and
having gone thus far, Mr. Graham decided to try for Washan Moun-
tain, and had actually started, when on the 12th a messenger arrived
with a letter saying conditions were getting worse down the river,
that many British subjects were leaving Szechwan, and that all
foreigners might be ordered to leave, also advising that he abandon his
plan to visit Washan. He notes: “It is a keen disappointment, but it
seems unwise to go on, so to-morrow I'll go back toward Mt. Omei
and spend the summer as profitably as I can.” On July 14 he re-
ceived a letter stating that conditions were improving and that the
foreign community withdrew its request that he should not attempt
the trip to Washan. He thereupon again headed for that mountain,
and on July 23 reached the summit, which he says is the highest
point in central Szechwan. On every side “it is a sheer cliff several
thousand feet high, with only one road to the top and back... .
The road made a few circles, and soon I found myself walking along
NO. I SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1925 33

Fic. 34.—An idol being carried in a sedan chair in an idol procession
at Ngan Lin Chiao, near Suifu, Szechwan, China. (Photograph by D. (G
Graham. )
34 SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VOL. 78

the edge across the top of that cliff, with only a foot or more of dirt
and some small bushes between me and the precipice. Later the road
leads a long way on the edge of a narrow ridge, on each side a sheer
precipice of thousands of feet. In one spot the path is about 3
feet wide, and I think a little less. It took all the grit I had to cross
that place, and I’d hate to attempt it in rainy weather when the rocks
are slippery. There is one place where there is no place to get a foot-
hold, and the precipice is bridged by poles placed side by side, under
the bridge is a chasm that one does not like to look at. To cap the
climax, near the top are long ladders. It is practically perpendicu-

lic. 35.—Part of a retreating army (the whole army numbered tens of
thousands of soldiers), being ferried across the river at Chien Way, near
Kiating, by a steamer to which small Chinese boats are tied. (Photograph
by D. C. Graham.)

lar at these points, and without the ladders no one could reach the
top.” He writes further: “ We are in the only building on Washan,
a tumbled-down temple that will leak badly if it rains. There is no
one living in this temple or anywhere on the mountain.”

9

After spending some time at the summit of the mountain in pur-
suit of specimens, Mr. Graham retraced his steps to the lower levels,
and finding conditions further improved, turned his attention to
Mt. Omei, which is a few hundred feet less in height than Washan,
and is within sight of it on clear days. Mt. Omei is one of the four
great sacred mountains of China, there being many smaller sacred
ones, but Omei is one of the important Buddhist centers, with many
temples between the top and Kiating. After beginning work on
NO. I SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1925 3

cm

Omei, he received a Chinese letter stating that the Buddhist society
in charge of this sacred mountain had heard that he was collecting
specimens here, and had sent instructions to order him to discontinue
all shooting above Wan Nien Si. He met all of the priests in the
temple and carefully explained his purpose in securing the specimens,
but they were obdurate and there was no alternative but to comply.
He says: ‘‘ Instructions were definitely given for me to discontinue
shooting on this holy mountain, as it would cause some to believe that
the Buddhist priests were insincere, and the Buddhist society control-
ling the mountain would make trouble with the priests of the local
temple. I therefore plan to go down the mountain to-morrow as far

Fic. 36.—Steamboat at Chien Way. Foreigners can be seen on the upper
deck. The native soldiers are part of the retreating army. This is just
before the great retreat began, when over 30,000 soldiers were ferried across
the river by this steamboat. (Photograph by D. C. Graham.)

as possible.’ He adds: “ the top of Mt. Omei is a rich place for col-
lecting, and the above order is much to be regretted.”

In preparing for his return journey, Mr. Graham decided to pack
his summer’s accumulation of specimens and mail them from the vil-
lage of Shin Kai Si, to reduce the danger of loss from robbers. Over
seventy parcels were packed and mailed from this place, after which
he set out for Kiating, where he was to try and arrange for the safe
transport of the Suifu foreigners from Kiating to Suifu.

Mr. Graham’s return from Kiating to Suifu was filled with excit-
ing incidents, due to war, brigands, and lack of food. He writes:
“With over one hundred thousand troops engaged in civil war in
the Province, with bands of robbers everywhere, and with the serious
complications between China and the foreign powers, it may be con-
36 SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VOL. 78

sidered a victory to have carried through the collecting trip and to
have secured more specimens than were collected in any previous
year.”

Mr. Graham explains that there are two Washan mountains in
Szechwan, one to the west and north of Mt. Omei, near Yachow,. and
the other south of Mt. Omei. The last Washan has precipitous sides,
and is the one where his collections were made.

The illustrations show views between Kiating and Suifu, made on
the last part of his journey, the negatives for the earlier parts of
his expeditions not having been received in time for reproduction in
this notice.

Fic. 37.—North edge of the central plain of Haiti, with the low, scrub-
covered limestone mountains which bound it. Most of the caves occur at
about the level of the streak of nearly bare rock seen near the middle of the
mountain mass.

EXPLORATION OF HAITIAN CAVES

During March and April, 1925, I spent about six weeks in Haiti
with the principal object of exploring the caves near San Michel which
were visited by members of the U. S. Geological Survey in March,
1921. Soundings made in the floors of these caves in 1921 had shown
the presence of rich deposits of bones of extinct vertebrates, and
two short papers had been published in which some of these animals
were described. The problem in hand was to determine the richness
and true nature of this fauna, and to correlate it with the faunas
which have been found in the cave deposits of Porto Rico, Cuba and
Jamaica.

Arriving in Port-au-Prince March 3, 1925, I spent 10 days at a
point about 6 miles west of the city on the coast of the southern
NO. I SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1925 37

Fic. 38.—Artibonite River, the largest stream in Haiti, as seen from road
between St. Marc and Gonaives.

Fic. 39.—Roadside cotton buyer between Gonaives and St. Mare. The
merchant is seated under the shelter behind the pile of cotton. Peasants
bring their cotton in small quantities for sale. It is weighed on the scales
at the right.
38 SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VOL. 78

peninsula near Point Lamentin. Here general collections were made
chiefly of plants, reptiles, and batrachians.

Four weeks were then given to the real object of the expedition.
The caves visited by the Geological Survey party in 1921 are situ-
ated in the southward facing slopes of the low mountains which
border the northwestern extremity of the central plain of Haiti. The
plantation of l’Atalaye, now owned and operated by the United West

Adansonia tree on plain east of
San Michel. This African tree, supposed to
live to an age of several thousand years, is
probably a relic from the days of the slave
trade.

Fic. 40.

Indies Corporation, proved to be a very convenient base from which
to work. The soundings made by the Geological Survey party were
enlarged and fully explored. Four untouched caves in the same
neighborhood were also examined, The floors of all of these caves
contained rich deposits of bones of mammals, birds, reptiles, and
batrachians, occurring from practically at the surface downward
for about 3 feet. Beyond a depth of 4 or 5 feet bones were not found.
The material collected has not yet been critically studied, but a
superficial examination shows that it consists very largely of the
39

EXPLORATIONS,

AN

SMITHSONI

NO.

‘alo JUaSqe SEA jt yng
‘gjod Sey e st diay} AT[ens~, ‘suryeods
JOOP-JO-jnO JOJ WinA}sOT Vy} pue S921}
wyed d1yoquiAs 9y} ‘s[pprur oy} url ‘pue
‘Qpis suo 3B YOINyS ay} YyyM arenbs uado
dy} Ye] SUMO} URITRFT Moay—'zP “OLT

“UBL 94} JO JYUSII ay} 4 AYS 94}
JSUTESL PoUl]}NO SI S9a1} aS9Yy} JO JUG) ‘rodrunf 9A}
-PU Pod}PUIWII9}xX9 JSOW][e BY} FO spurjs SUIUICUIO1
MO} 9} JO 9UO SINd90 dIIFY “POY UeSg ‘uol}
-pyuryd dy} AeaU qNADS dI}StI9}eVIeYD—IV “OMT

40 SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VOL, 78

remains of animals now extinct. The fact that most of the extinct
species occur in the superficial layers of the cave floor, and that prac-
tically all of them were found in one or the other of the caves closely
associated with human remains and artifacts which appeared to
have been interred by the same natural agencies which have effected
the covering of the animal bones, makes it appear probable that the
dying out of this indigenous fauna is an event of no great geological
antiquity.

The ease and success with which this investigation was carried
on is chiefly due to the kindness of Brigadier General Ben H. Fuller,
who cordially placed the transportation facilities of the Marine Corps
at the disposal of the Smithsonian Institution, and of Mr. G. G. Bur-
lingame, president of the United West Indies Corporation, who sim1-
larly extended the hospitality of the Atalaye plantation. In Mr. E. J.
Sieger, manager of the plantation, | found an invaluable aid owing to
his intimate knowledge of the country and the people, and above all
to the intelligent interest with which he assisted me in my work. |

GERRIT S. MILLER, JR.

MARINE INVERTEBRATE STUDIES AT THE TORTUGAS

Dr. Waldo L. Schmitt, curator of marine invertebrates, U. S.
National Museum, spent the month of June, 1025, at the Carnegie
Marine Biological Station, Tortugas, supplementing his last year’s
investigation of the Crustacea of the region. In collaboration with
Dr. Longley, extensive studies of the food of fishes were pursued, Dr.
Schmitt giving particular attention to the crustacean element of the
problem. He examined about 750 fish stomachs and by this means
added several species to his previous list of Crustacea. He writes,
“We can already see specific feeding differences in closely related
species; of the two snappers, the one feeds on the sand-dwelling
Crustacea, and the other on the rock and eel-grass inhabiting forms.
And these are fishes that during the day largely school together ; in
fact, we take them with the same shot of dynamite.” About two
thousand specimens of marine invertebrates were obtained through
Dr. Schmitt’s efforts, consisting chiefly of Crustacea, Sponges, Coel-
enterates, Bryozoa, Echinoderms, and marine Annelids.

STUDY OF THE CRUSTACEANS OF SOUTH AMERICA

Dr. Waldo L. Schmitt, curator of marine invertebrates, U. S.
National Museum, was awarded the Walter Rathbone Bacon Scholar-
NO. I SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1925 4I

MM TNS Re edt as ME oe ‘ ~~

= 4% Rt eran Sine omens

Fic. 43.—The wharf of the Carnegie Marine Biological Station, Tortugas,
showing some of the laboratory buildings.

Fic. 44.—One of the collecting launches belonging to the Carnegie Marine
Biological Station, Tortugas.
42 SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VOL. 78

ship of the Smithsonian Institution for the purpose of making a
study of the crustacean fauna of South America. He hoped to spend
the last six months of this year investigating the fauna of the east
coast of the continent, and left New York August 1, arriving at Rio
de Janeiro on the 13th, where he was accorded every courtesy, both
by the Brazilian officials and the American Ambassador. Much col-
lecting was done in the Bay of Rio de Janeiro, and valuable material
obtained at Paqueta Island.

Dr. Schmitt visited the Museu Nacional, examined the collections,
and received much valuable information from Dr. Carlos Moreira,
the Brazilian carcinologist, who was for a long time attached to the

Fic. 45—Museum at Sao Paulo, Brazil.

Museum, in regard to the local marine fauna and the best collecting
grounds.

Heavy rains and unavoidable delays prolonged his sojourn at Rio
de Janeiro until September 7, when he left for Santos, arriving there
the following day. The nearby Museu Paulista at Sao Paulo was
visited and here he met Dr. H. Luderwaldt, Custodian, who for many
years has been a correspondent of the U. S. National Museum. The
collections of the Museum were examined and greatly admired by
Dr. Schmitt. He was very much gratified at receiving from the
Museu Paulista permission to work up its collection of unidentified
crustacea, and for the privilege of making exchanges. The fishing
grounds of Santos were visited and some material obtained from the
seine hauls of the fishermen.
NO. i SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1925 43

On September 17, accompanied by Dr. Luderwaldt, he started for
Sao Sebastiao, arriving the next morning after a most uncomfortable
night on a small boat. The collecting here was good and many varie-
ties of crustacea were obtained. Night collecting yielded valuable
tow-net hauls. Upon this island several species of fresh-water shrimps
were obtained. Dr. Schmitt is of the impression that these shrimps
can travel considerable distances over land through the woods should
their parent stream go dry. He states that tiny Euphausids produce
a magnificent phosphorescence at night in the waters around the
island.

Fic. 46—House in Blumenau similar to the one which formed the early
home of Fritz Miller.

He returned to Santos September 28, where several cases of speci-
mens were prepared for shipment to Washington.

Passing down the coast, collections were made at Sao Francisco
Island, then at Castro where several fresh-water streams were
visited. Here, amongst other things, two species of an anomuran
crab of the genus Aeglea were obtained. These Dr. Schmitt con-
sidered a great find, as they are rather rare in collections and there
has been some uncertainty as to their status.

He left Castro October 21, and traveled by auto over the mountains
to Blumenau. Here he met Fritz Schmitt, son-in-law of Fritz Miiller,
the celebrated naturalist, visited Muller’s former home and saw the
very simple microscopes with which he did such excellent work.
44 SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VOL. 78

He returned to Sao Francisco October 27, when several cases of
specimens were packed for shipment to Washington. The weather
and tides being favorable, some excellent collections of shrimps and
amphipods were made at this station, and he says “ I’ve extended the
ranges of a number of species, and surely found a couple of new
ones here.”’

He arrived off Itajahy at 8 p. m., November 2, after a cold, rainy
trip, and early the next morning anchored off Florianopolis. Some
tow-net hauls and shore collecting here produced excellent results.

Owing to the many unavoidable delays, Dr. Schmitt has not been
able to progress as rapidly as he had hoped, but the ground has been
as thoroughly worked as possible, and several cases of specimens
have already been received at the Museum. His collections at this
time comprise several thousand specimens and consist chiefly of
Crustacea, Coelenterates, Porifera, Echinoderms, Annelids, Bryozoa,
and Fishes.

EXPERIMENTS IN CERION-BREEDING AT THE TORTUGAS

Dr. Paul Bartsch, curator of mollusks, U. S. National Museum,
spent the period between the last call of the “Anton Dohrn” at Key
West and the closing of the laboratory of the Carnegie Marine Bio-
logical Station, August 12-24, 1925, at the Tortugas, largely upon
work on his Cerion colonies.

The part of the Cerion breeding work about which the greatest
interest centers, were the little islets made last year by placing con-
crete trenches filled with water around four 6x6 feet areas and
eight 3 x 3 feet spaces. In the first of the larger of these areas were
placed last year 25 Cerion incanum and 25 Cerions of a new species.
Of these, 22 Cerion incanum and 18 of the new species were found
dead in the inclosure this year. But, in spite of the great mortality,
very small young individuals were present. It is to be hoped that some
of these may reach maturity and may show crossing.

In the second inclosure had been placed 25 Cerion incanum and
25 Cerion chrysalis. Eleven of the Cerion incanum and 12 of the
Cerion chysalis were found dead, but here, too, young were in
evidence.

In the third inclosure had been placed 25 Cerion incanum and 25
Cerion mummia. Of the Cerion incanum, 16 were found dead, and
of the Cerion mumm-a, 17. Here, too, young were in evidence.
NO. I SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1925 45

In the fourth inclosure had been placed 25 Cerion incanum and
25 Cerion tridentatum. Of the Cerion incanum, 13, and of the Cerion
tridentatum, 10, were found dead. Young also were present in the
inclosure.

In the eight smaller inclosures in which had been placed a young
specimen of each, Cerion incanum and Cerion viaregis, it was deemed
wise not to disturb the vegetation or sand to discover their fate. In
some, living individuals were seen; in others, dead specimens were
in evidence. Next year these islets will be examined in detail.

Fic. 47,—The west shore line of Loggerhead Key, looking from the Marine
Biological Laboratory towards the lighthouse. Here many of the marine
shells found in the region were gathered.

The colonies which were introduced on the top of Fort Jefferson
last year also showed considerable mortality, but a number of living
specimens remained. Here too it was deemed best not to disturb the
ground, for very young forms have a way of burrowing just beneath
the surface of the sand, and exposing them to sunlight frequently
results in killing them.

This year Dr. Bartsch cut down the large cages made two years
ago to the mere four-inch base boards and tops. These were buried
a bit around the edge, then a narrow strip of monel wire screening
was tacked to the upper edge, allowing about one and one-half inches
to project inward. Seventy-five of these inclosures were made, 3 X 3
feet in size. They were provided with the usual plants, and in each

4
46 SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VOL. 78

of them was placed a specimen of Cerion incanum and of Cerion
viaregis. It is hoped that these plantings will at last furnish the much
desired cross of individual pairs.

All the colonies of Bahama Cerions are doing well and spread-
ing rapidly beyond their original areas, excepting the one from San
Salvador, planted two years ago, in which considerable mortality has
occurred. The colony of Cerion uva from Curacoa, however, is about
gone and Cerion crassilabre from Porto Rico will probably not
survive.

Fic. 48.—A photograph of the north end of Loggerhead Key from the
lighthouse, showing the location of many Cerion colonies.

On August 25 Dr. Bartsch visited Newfound Harbor Key, where
he found the hybrid colony of Cerion incanum and Cerion viaregis
doing well. One hundred specimens, showing great diversity in size,
sculpture, and coloring, were gathered for dissection at Washington,
and it is to be hoped that the dissection of 70 more of these hybrids
may soon be finished, 30 having already been completed, so that a
report based on 100 dissections may be published. The 30 specimens
already dissected show an enormous diversity and modification of the
internal anatomy from the types planted, produced by hybridization.

During his stay at the Tortugas, Dr. Bartsch kept a record of the
birds from day to day. This was also done on the other Keys visited.
He likewise exposed sixteen hundred feet of moving picture film
under sea, which he hopes will show some of the faunal associations
found on the coral reefs at the Tortugas.
IDeA SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1925 47

Fic. 49.—Young sooty and noddy terns seeking the shade of the Warden’s
cabin on Bird Key.

Fic. 50.—Young sooty and noddy terns in the shade of the landing slip on
Bird Key.
48 SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VOL. 78

BOTANICAL EXPEDITION TO BRAZIL

The flora of eastern Brazil is of especial interest to the student of
tropical North American plants. Only a few botanical collections
were made in the tropics of North America until after an important
scientific expedition to Brazil had made known much of the flora of
eastern Brazil and part of the valley of the Amazon. Brazil, the
West Indies, and Panama have many species of plants in common.

The Brazilian expedition referred to was sent, under the leadership
of Von Martius, by Francis I of Austria as an honorary escort to
his daughter, Leopoldina, on her voyage to Brazil to marry the crown
prince of Portugal and Brazil, the man later known as the “‘ Libera-
tor,’ Pedro I of Brazil. Martius and Spix, after a few months about
Rio de Janeiro, went to Sao Paulo and from there made their way
northward through Minas Geraes and Bahia to Piauhy and Maranhao
on the north coast, crossing Rio Sao Francisco at Joazeiro. They
then traveled up the Amazon to some distance beyond Teffe (or Ega).

The Amazon and other parts of Brazil have since been explored
and the U. S. National Herbarium has, by exchange, come in for a
share of the plants collected, but there was no U. S. National
Herbarium at the time of Martius and but little has since been col-
lected, at least of grasses, in the region he traversed in the interior.
For this reason, it seemed important to collect material from this
region, and late in 1924, Mrs. Agnes Chase, assistant agrostologist
of the National Herbarium, was detailed for this purpose.

Arriving in Rio de Janeiro on November 1, Mrs. Chase first col-
lected on Corcovado, here procuring many of the species first de-
scribed from this mountain by Raddi. In spite of the dense popula-
tion in the lowlands, the mountains about Rio de Janeiro have not
been spoiled for the botanist. Except for the invasion in places of
Melinis minutifora, called ** capim gordura ” (molasses grass, by us),
an African species early introduced into Brazil, the steep jungly
slopes are probably not greatly changed from what they were a
hundred years ago.

Four days after landing, Mrs, Chase left for Pernambuco in order to
reach that region before the dry season was much advanced. Pernami-
buco, or Recife, as the city is commonly called, lies on flat ground built
up by coral reefs and mangroves. The surrounding region is densely
populated. Wooded hills which at a distance showed no signs of
being inhabited turned out to be full of huts and goats and children.
In little clearings were patches of maize and beans, and a few bananas
and sometimes oranges. Vetiveria was planted about many of the
NO: 1 SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1925 49

i
pees

Fic. 51—Mangrove marshes north of Recife. The coast of Pernambuco
is built up by coral reefs and mangroves. In the distance are seen the ruins
of an old fort and lighthouse.

Fic. 52.—Part of Paulo Affonso Falls. These falls are so broken that
they form a stupendous cascade. There is no one point from which the entire
falls can be seen. The canyon walls are devoid of vegetation except in a few
spots watered by the spray.
50 SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VOLE

huts. This is one of the oil grasses, introduced from the East Indies.
In the West Indies, the roots are used to scent clothing and to keep
moths away, but here it is used to thatch huts. The caju (cashew) 1s
everywhere, a beautiful wide-spreading tree, bearing multitudes of
fragrant small maroon flowers and fruit in all stages of development.
The wet meadows and stream borders offered the best botanizing.
Here were great Paspalums and Panicums, tangled with aroids, ferns,
and brush. A quaking bog yielded some little-known grasses.

A trip was made to Bello Jardim, 186 kilometers to the west in
the Serra da Genipapo, at an altitude of 600 to 650 meters. The hills
are covered with scrub or low trees, the “ caatinga,’ consisting of
mimosas, acacias, and thorny shrubs and semi-arborescent cactuses,
except where it has been cleared for planting. Ground is cleared by
burning, and cotton, sugarcane, castor plants, mandiocca, and tobacco
are planted, sometimes here and there among the shrubs or tussocks
of sedge that refused to burn. There seemed to be little or no cultiva-
tion. When a field becomes overgrown with weeds or brush it is
abandoned and a new place is burned, land being very cheap. The
result is that cultivated spots are scattered hit or miss through the
scrub, which is overgrazed by cattle, horses, donkeys, sheep, and
goats till only inedible shrubs and herbs, Jatropha, Capparis, and the
like, flourish. No forage crops are grown in the sertao (the interior
arid region) except for little patches of Para grass here and there
along a stream. In November the dry season had only begun, yet
every edible plant in the sertao seemed to have been consumed, and
there were still some eight months to endure before the rains.

A second journey was made to Garanhuns, 850 meters high, in the
sertao to the southwest. The country here is much less barren, and
more progressive, with fairly good sugarcane fields, and with bul-
lock carts in common use.

With two women missionaries, Mrs. Chase visited Paulo Affonso
Falls in Rio Sao Francisco, about 150 miles from Garanhuns. These
falls are 610 feet in height, higher than Niagara and of greater
volume. The region had not before been visited by a botanist and
much was expected of it, but the desert extends to the vast river,
even the canyon walls being almost devoid of vegetation.

The period from December 7 to January 5 was spent about Bahia,
in the sandy savannas and marshes to the north and in the hill coun-
try across the bay, about Cachoeiro and Feira Santa Anna. A trip
across the state to Joazeiro on Rio Sao Francisco was disappointing,
NO. I SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1925 SI

Fie. 53.—View from the summit of Agulhas Negras. This high region,
Alta de Serra, is rich in grasses.

Fic. 54.—A cornfield in a palm grove, foothills of Serra de Cipd. Land

is commonly cleared by burning, the trees that withstand the fire being
allowed to stand.
52 SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VOL. 78

the country here having been devastated by long-continued over-graz-
ing. A stop at Itumerin in the Serra da Espinhaco, to the south of
Joazeiro, was productive of a good collection.

Rio de Janeiro was reached a second time January 9, midsummer.
Several days were spent on Corcovado, Pao de Assucar, and the
other hills of the coast range; then with a party from the Jardim
Botanico of Rio de Janeiro, Mrs. Chase visited Itatiaia, one of the
two disputed highest points in Brazil. From the railroad the party
traveled on horseback, with pack animals. A night was spent, going
and returning, at the Florestal, a station where the Jardim Botanico
is carrying on work on Monte Serrat, affording opportunity for col-
lecting in this typically tropical forest country. From Monte Serrat
to the summit of the mountain and for some miles beyond on the
Minas Geraes side the country is a Federal reserve under the charge
of the Jardim Botanico. One day was spent making the ascent from
Monte Serrat to a rest house just below timber line, at an altitude of
about 2,100 meters. The third day the party ascended the Agulhas
Negras (“ Black Needles’), the culminating point of Itatiaia. This
was long known as the highest point in Brazil and was said to be
2,994 meters in altitude. Recent measurements, however, give about
2,830 meters. From the summit the three days return journey was
made on foot, collecting the grasses. The high campos above timber
line were covered with grasses, large and small. The trail borders
and mountain slopes also yielded abundant collections.

From the end of the rainy season in early February to the end of
the fall in May was spent in the State of Minas Geraes. The flora
here is very different from that of the regions earlier visited. The
high hills are covered to a certain extent with open or brushy campos.
From about Bello Horizonte northward and eastward this campos
type was seen at its best and was the richest grass country anywhere
observed. Agriculture in Minas is far in advance of that in Pernam-
buco and Bahia. There are good roads in some parts far in the
interior, and one sees clean cultivation and good-looking animals.

A few days each were spent at Lavras, Oliveira, Lagoa Santa, and
Vaccaria in the Serra de Cipo, and a day each was spent in the moun-
tains about Ouro Preto (formerly called Villa Rica) and Itacolumi.
On April 10, Mrs. Chase left the Zona de Campos for Vigosa in the
Zona de Matto, to the east. Here Dr. P. H. Rolfs, formerly direc-
tor of the experiment station at Gainesville, Florida, is establishing a
school of agriculture for the State of Minas Geraes. Of special inter-
est was a row of thrifty little chaulmoogra trees. There 1s much
leprosy in Brazil, hence the importance of these trees.
NO. I SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1925 53

Fig. 55.—Ouro Preto, formerly called Villa Rica, the old capital of
Minas Geraes in the days when there were important gold workings in
the vicinity.

past Ta

Fic. 56.—A colony of Panicum rivulare along Rio Casca, Serra da Gramma.

on
54 SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VOL. 78

With Doctor Rolfs and his daughter, Mrs. Chase visited Serra da
Gramma, and with Miss Rolfs, Serra do Caparaé, high mountains
in the eastern part of the State. Pico da Bandeira, the culminating
point of Serra do Caparao, is now said to be the highest point in
Brazil, 2,884 meters. Owing to bad weather and a guide who did not
know the way, they climbed Pontao Crystal, 2,798 meters high, in-
stead of Pico da Bandeira. A large collection of interesting grasses
was obtained.

Fic. 57.—Dr. Rolfs, Mrs. Chase, and outfit in the foothills of
Serra da Gramma.

A last trip into campo country was made to Campos do Jordao,
Sao Paulo, a region of high grassy hills divided by ravines full of
Araucaria brasiliensis.

BOTANICAL INVESTIGATIONS AT EUROPEAN MUSEUMS

The growing interest in the botany of South America and the
dispatch of several expeditions from this country to little-known
parts of that continent in recent years have resulted in the accumula-
tion of a large amount of unidentified material. In general, the work
of naming these specimens is made difficult by the fact that a great
proportion of the species peculiar to South America are known to
botanists of this country only by description, the original specimens
being deposited in European herbaria. Obviously, therefore, it 1s
important that the new material be compared with specimens in Euro-
pean collections, and that the original types be sketched or photo-
NO. I SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1925 55

graphed and thus made available for comparative studies in this
country.

In view of this situation, Mr. E. P. Killip, of the division of
plants, U. S. National Museum, went to Europe in the summer of
1925, taking with him some 500 specimens of South American plants.
Among the groups which it was planned to study were Passiflora,
Pilea, Bomarea, Valeriana, Cordia, Tournefortia, Begonia, and
Saurauja. As it would not be possible in the short time at his disposal

- eZ
LE

Fic. 58.—Botany and Geology Building, Jardin des Plantes, Paris. In
this building are contained the extensive botanical collections of the Muséum
d’ Histoire Naturelle.

to study all these groups with thoroughness, Mr. Killip planned to
concentrate his studies upon a few genera, and to name by com-
parison as many specimens of the other groups as possible.

The Muséum d’Histoire Naturelle, at Paris, was first visited. Here
are deposited the Humboldt herbarium, containing the types of a
very great number of Andean plants, the Jussieu herbarium, and the
Lamarck herbarium, to mention only a few of the collections of
interest to the student of South American botany. These special col-
lections are segregated from the general herbarium, and are in an
excellent state of preservation. In the general herbarium are the
Funck and Schlim, the Goudot, and the Triana plants from Colombia,
the Ruiz and Pavon plants from Peru, Glaziou’s Brazilian collection,
and Richard’s from the Guianas. Special interest attaches to the
specimens of the Nettle family, for here Weddell conducted his criti-
cal studies. Ten days were spent in Paris, and about 85 specimens
were photographed.
50 SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VOL. 78

hi By
< ied

Fic. 60.—Glacier on Mont Blanc.
NO. I SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1925 57

In Geneva the work of incorporating the De Candolle herbarium
with the Delessert herbarium at the Jardin Botanique is being carried
on. An addition to the museum building has recently been constructed,
affording ample room for the large collection and adequate working
facilities for visiting botanists. The original De Candolle herbarium,
that is, the part containing specimens cited in the Prodromus and
the Monographiae Phanerogamarum, is maintained as a separate
unit. These early collections have been supplemented in recent years

Fic. 61.—British Museum (Natural His-
tory), South Kensington. (End view.)

by much South American material, particularly from Paraguay, Ar-
gentina, and southern Brazil.

Twice during his ten days’ stay in Geneva, Mr. Killip had an
opportunity to do field-work. An afternoon on the Seléve Moun-
tains, overlooking the city, and a day on Mont Blanc netted interest-
ing Alpine plants.

The Botanical Museum at Berlin is an almost ideal place at which
to work, particularly for one engaged in studying South American
plants. The presence of a large staff of botanists, many of them
specializing in plant groups extensively represented in South America,
has resulted in the naming and classifying of the specimens in accor-
58 SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VOL. 78

dance with the most recent monographic treatments. To provide
room for the rapidly growing collection and adequate office and
laboratory space for members of the staff, a large building was
erected a few years ago. The phanerogamic herbarium occupies
three floors of one of the wings, and there is also a well-equipped
photographic laboratory which is generously placed at the disposal
of visiting botanists.

The Berlin herbarium contains a number of recent South American
collections which are only scantily represented elsewhere. Among
these are the large collections of Weberbauer in Peru, Stiibel in
Colombia and Ecuador, Hieronymus and Lorentz in Argentina, Fie-
brig in Bolivia and Paraguay, and Stuckert and Ule in Brazil. Here
also are excellent sets of the Humboldt, Lehmann, Karsten, and
Sellow collections.

In the brief time that Mr. Killip was able to spend at the British
Museum (Natural History) and the Royal Botanic Gardens, at Kew,
England, critical study of Passifora and Bomarea alone was at-
tempted. These two genera are represented in both of the London
collections by exceedingly rich material, which has formed the basis
of important monographs. Approximately 70 specimens in various
groups were photographed.

Returning from London to Paris by airplane, a single day was
spent at the Muséum d’Histoire Naturelle in reexamining certain
specimens.

For the privilege of going over these European collections, thanks
are due Directors Le Comte, Briquet, Diels, Rendle, and Hill, of the
institutions visited. This work was greatly facilitated by the aid
generously given by members of the various staffs.

ANTHROPOLOGICAL STUDIES IN SOUTHERN ASIA) JAWVESs
AOSD RALTAT AND SOUR VAE RI GAr

In October, 1925. Dr. Ales Hrdlic¢ka finished a seven-months’
journey of some 50,000 miles in the interests of Physical Anthro-

*Thanks for effective aid, financial and otherwise, which made this expedi-
tion feasible are due to Dr. Hermon C. Bumpus, Consulting Director, and to
Mr. Seymour H. Knox, one of the Trustees, of the Buffalo Society of Natural
Sciences. A grateful acknowledgment for valuable aid with introductions or in
the work itself is due to the Hon. Robert Lansing, former Secretary of State;
to the British Government of India, to other official authorities, scientific men
and Museum officials of India, Java, Australia, and South Africa; to the
United States Consulates in these countries, and to many scientific and personal
friends, the list of whom would be too long to be enumerated.
NO. I SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1925 59

pology, extending through France to India, Ceylon, Java, Australia
and South Africa, with a brief final stop in England, under the joint
auspices of the Smithsonian Institution and the Buffalo Society of
Natural Sciences. Its objects were essentially a survey of what has
been and what is being done in those far-off lands in the field of
ancient man and fossil apes; to look into a number of important
racial questions; to meet men previously known only by corres-
pondence and establish closer relations; and if conditions proved
propitious, to lay a foundation for future work.

In the journey through France, it was learned that no skeletal
remains of great age have recently been encountered.

At Port Said and especially at Aden, it was possible to observe
numerous Arabs. There is more or less of negro admixture, but
evidently pure types are not infrequent and are very interesting.
The pure Arab shows a lively, intelligent, white-man’s ( Mediter-
ranean type) physiognomy, straight to wavy black hair, a fine black
or mostly gray wavy beard if one is worn, dark brown eyes, and a
body as richly brown as that of an average full-blooded American
Indian. These are the workers. A higher class Arab man or woman,
who has always worn protection against the sun and lives much
indoors, may be nearly as light in color as many a southern European.

In India, the problems to be studied were first, the occurrence of
fossil anthropoid apes in the Siwalik Hills; second, the distribution,
numbers, and nature of Indian paleoliths and possible other traces of
ancient man ; third, the question of the racial affinity of the “ Aryans ” ;
fourth, the occurrence of American Indian-like types among the
mongolic peoples of the Himalayas; and fifth, traces on the Indian
mainland of the Negrito.

Bombay * in its living population presents a rich pasture for the
anthropologist. Moreover, the city now possesses a handsome new
museum which includes a hall of Prehistory. In this hall are several
cases of Indian * paleoliths,” most of them from Madras.

The Siwalik Hills of Northern India, it is known, have for some
time past been giving us fossil remains of anthropoid apes. It was
learned that the hills extend for about 600 miles along the base of
the Himalayas, from Kashmir and Punjab to near Burma. In these
hills have been found, within the last two years, five or six new
varieties, if not species, of fossil anthropoid apes of the Dryopithecus

* For aid in this city, Dr. Hrdlicka is especially grateful to Mr. A. H. Dracup,
Under-Secretary of the Government, and to the local U. S. Consulate.
VoL. 78

COLLECTIONS

OUS

MISCELLANE

SMITHSONIAN

60

(‘erpuy Fo ponents
exNI[PIE] “Iq 0} peyeuop ydessojoyg) “eIpuy ‘SAeMIS ey} FO UOHIES Y—zg “Ol
NO. I SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1925 61

and Sivapithecus genera, and this with but limited scientific explora-
tion. In former years remains of fossil anthropoids had been dis-
covered in no less than eight other well separated localities in these
hills, and it is probably safe to say that there is no region in the world
richer or more promising in such remains, Yet this important field
today lies fallow. The man who, in recent years, has done most of
the paleontological exploration in these hills—Dr. Pilgrim, formerly
a Superintendent of the Geological Survey—is returning to London,
and there is no one to take his place.’

Many other noteworthy Tertiary and Quaternary fossils besides
those of apes are appearing in the Siwaliks, such as those of giant
turtles, extinct proboscidea, and other animals; and the further pos-
sibilities of the region can hardly be estimated.’

From Simla Dr. Hrdlicka proceeded to the Tibetan border, to
observe the types of the Tibetans who make their homes in Darjeeling
or its vicinity, or come there from over the mountains, and who occa-
sionally show types that resemble most closely the American Indian.
At Darjeeling, with generous help from the Government,’ it was
possible in a short time to see large numbers of the native popula-
tion, consisting of mongoloid tribes who have overflowed into the
northernmost parts of India, and a good many Tibetans. There is
seen amongst these Tibetans, Chinese admixture—for the Chinese
have been lords of Tibet for a long time—yet frequently true Ameri-
can Indian types are also to be found, so true that if they were trans-
planted into America nobody could possibly take them for anything but
Indian. They—men, women and children—resemble the Indians in
behavior, in dress, and even in the intonations of their language.

From the Tibetan border Dr. Hrdli¢ka returned to Calcutta to see
the establishment of the Geological Survey of India and the renowned
Indian Museum, where were found very valuable paleontological
and archeological collections which ought to be better known.’ The

*Just as this goes to press, it is learned that, owing to a discovery of oil in
the Punjab, Dr. Pilgrim is to return to that part of India, where he will be
near what are perhaps the most promising parts of the Siwaliks.

* At Simla, help was received particularly from Sir Frederick White, Presi-
dent of the Indian Assembly, from the Military Secretary to H. E. the Viceroy,
from members of the Cabinet, and from Dr. Pilgrim personally.

* Thanks here are due especially to H. E. Sir John Kerr, Governor of
Assam, at that time Acting Governor of Bengal, to Lady Kerr, and to the
Governor’s official family.

*In Calcutta many thanks for aid extended are due particularly to the local
public officials, to the excellent staff of the Geological Survey, to Mr. J. Van
Mauen, Secretary of the Asiatic Society of Bengal, and to the gentlemen of the
American Consulate-General.
(craydessojoyd eso] Aq ydessoyoyg) “surjsofseqd (‘saydesrSojoyd [eso] Aq ydessojoyg) “Surjsofaeqd
‘ueIpuy UPdTIaUy Jo sodA} Surmoys ‘UBLUOAL ur}IqIL[—T9 “Ty ‘ueIpuy uvolioury jo addy Surmoys ‘ue uRqIL—tg “OL

VoL. 78

COLLECTIONS

MISCELLANEOUS

VIAN

L

SMITISO

NO. I SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1925 63

former include a whole series of specimens of great and lesser fossil
apes from the Siwaliks some of which are not yet described; and
stone implements from Madras. There is

‘ bd

numerous “‘ paleolithic ’
~ also now exhibited in the Museum an interesting collection of the
antiquities gathered recently by the Archaeological Survey of India
under Sir John Hubert Marshall, which belong to the oldest advanced
culture (about 3000 B. C. ?) as yet discovered in India.

From Calcutta the journey led to Madras, where Dr. Hrdli¢ka
wished to inspect the collections, and to see what could be learned of
traces of the Negrito in the Indian population. One of the biggest
problems in anthropology is the presence of the Negrito in the
Philippines, the Andamans, and elsewhere in the far southeast. He
is there—a clear but enigmatic type, without connection now in any
direction. His nearest relatives are apparently the Pygmies of Cen-
tral Africa, but a great unbridged space has till now separated the
two. The problem is—how did the Negrito get to his present homes?
If he extended from Africa, he must have left traces of his passing
in Arabia and India, from which, however, there has hitherto come
no clear evidence of his presence. Such traces, so far at least as the
Indian coast lands are concerned, Dr. Hrdlicka became satisfied do
exist. They occur in Parganas (northwest of Calcutta), in at least
one area along the eastern coast, here and there among the Dravidians,
and along larger parts of the western coast, more especially in the
Malabar Hills. This brings unmistakable traces of the Negrito a long
way farther to the westward and so much nearer to Africa, making
his derivation from that continent so much the more probable.

A great collection of paleolithic implements is preserved in the
Museum at Madras.’ These implements are similar to those of other
parts of India. They are all of one general class, so that there can
hardly be a question as to their contemporary origin in the different
parts of India, their connection with people of the same race, and
belonging to the same though perhaps a long cultural period. They
do not show great variety. They resemble some of the paleolithic
implements of western Europe, but on the whole cannot be associated
with any one of the European cultural periods. In certain parts of

* Dr. Hrdlicka’s thanks for help received at Madras are due to Dr. Gravely,
Superintendent of the Madras Museum; to his Assistant, Mr. P. V. Mayura-
nathan; to Major Dr. J. A. Cruickshank and Dr. Robert E. Wright, in charge
of important Government medical establishments; and to Mr. Edward S.
Parker, U. S. Vice-Consul in Charge at that city.
64 SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VOL. 78

India, such as the Santal country north of Calcutta, such implements
have been collected in thousands. In other parts, especially near
Madras, they are partly on the surface soil, partly from I to 4
or 5 feet and even deeper below the surface, In places they occur in
the alluvium of the rivers and occasionally in the “ laterite ’’, a talus-
like debris resulting from the disintegration of older rocks.

In short, there are plentiful paleolithic implements over large por-
tions of the country, but as yet they do not definitely indicate a man
of geological antiquity.

With regard to the bulk of the present population of India, Dr.
Hrdlicka believes he can say with confidence that it is mainly com-
posed of three ethnic elements, the Mediterranean, the Semitic, and
in certain parts the “ Hamitic””’ or North African. The “Aryans”
show everywhere either the Semitic or the Mediterranean type. There
was seen nothing that could be referred to the types of central or
northern Europe. It would seem therefore that the Aryans came
from Persia and Asia Minor rather than from or through what
is now European Russia.

From India Dr. Hrdli¢ka went to Ceylon, which is a strategic
island in an anthropological sense as well as in other respects.’ It
is known that before its present population of Singhalese and Dra-
vidians, Ceylon was peopled by an older branch of humanity, the
remnant of which is represented in the Veddas.

No certain trace has been found in Ceylon as yet of geologically
ancient man, but there are all over the island, generally on the tops
of the hills, plentiful traces of old stone workings. These remains.
mostly of quartz, some of chert, are, however, superficial and look
fresh and have never been found in association with extinct animals.

The Veddas are only a remnant. They live in hardly accessible
lowlands and are very seldom met with. Judging from their port-
raits and other information they do not appear to be of such a
primitive type as has been supposed.

From Ceylon, Dr. Hrdlicka proceeded to Java, touching at
Sumatra and the Straits Settlements.

Sumatra is still but imperfectly known and retains the romance
of such a state. As learned later, especially from Mr. L. C. Westen-
anck, formerly for many years Resident (local Governor) at Palom-

* Thanks for aid with his work in this island are due to the island authorities ;
to Mr. John H. Williams, the U. S. Vice-Consul in Charge at Colombo; to the
authorities of the Colombo Museum; and to Dr. Andreas Nell and Judge
Pieris at Kandy.
NO.

SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1925

Fic. 65.—India; a Semitic type “ Sheik Mahomedan.”
(Photograph from Madras Museum. )

65
66 SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VOL. 78

Fic. 66.—India; Mediterranean types (Sukla Yegur Vedda Brahmins).
(Photograph from Madras Museum.)

ee

.
em See

Fic. 67.—India; types approaching the Hamitic “ Rangavis.”
(Photograph from Madras Museum.)
‘BIPUT UJaYyNOS JO jred us9}sSaM JO SoAT}eU | SprlopIs9N—

eS

1925

Ni
Zz
je)
‘|
ia)
<
aa]

EXPL(

SMITHSONIAN

68

SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS

Fic. 69.—Negritoid statuettes from Palem-
bong District, Sumatra. (Photographs donated
to Dr. Hrdli¢ka by Mr. L. C. Westenanck,
former Resident of Palombong.)

VOL. 78
NO. I SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1925 69

bong, Sumatra, there still prevail in the island among the whites
as well as the natives, beliefs in the existence of wild men, There
are two varieties. The Orang Pandak (orang=man, pandak= short)
is said to live in the almost impenetrable mountain forests of the
central and southern parts of the island. The natives describe
him as black, short, long-haired, and wild, but not unsurmountably
shy—will ask the Malay natives for tobacco. The second form is
the Orang Sedapak. He is said to live in the unhealthy lowlands
of the southeastern parts of Sumatra. He is said to have the body
of a child of about 12 and to have long red hair on head and body.
He is very shy and runs but does not climb. On June 20 an ex-
pedition was to leave, in charge of Captain Bor, for the determina-
tion of what this creature really is. In addition Sumatra has been
yielding for some time peculiar stone sculptures, including heads
that seem to represent the Negrito.

In the mountainous region of the upper parts of the Malay Penin-
sula, according to information given to Dr. Hrdli¢ka, there still live
thousands of negritoid people, and there are many caves waiting
to be explored.

The visit to Java was made chiefly for the purpose of inspecting
the site of the Pithecanthropus, but Dr. Hrdlicka also desired to
satisfy himself as to any possible cultural traces of early man, and
as to the present population. As a result of the generous assistance
given by the authorities,’ he was able to see the natives in practically
the whole of the island and especially to examine that important
region which gave the precious remains of the Pithecanthropus—
the valley of the Bengawan or Solo River, a fairly large river, be-
ginning in the south of the island and running north and then east
to Soerabaya. Here exists a veritable treasure-house for anthro-
pology and paleontology, where nothing has been done since the
Selenka expedition of 1910, which was the only one since the work
of Dr. Dubois in 1891-’93. The lower deposits along the river are
full of the fossil bones of Tertiary and Quaternary mammals, but
among them at any time may be remains of greater value. Many of
the fossils fall out of exposed strata every year and lie in the mud,
where the natives occasionally gather them and take them to their
homes.

*Dr. Hrdlicka wishes to thank especially Dr. B. Schrieke of Veltevreden;
Mr. J. Th. Jarman, the Assistant Resident at Ngawi; Mr. and Mrs. S. H.
Pownall, at Banjoewangi; and Messrs. C. P. Kuykendall and R. R. Winslow,
U. S. Consuls respectively at Batavia and Soerabaya.

6
7O SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VOL. 78

Fic. 70.—The Dubois Monument opposite the site of the Pithecanthropus.
(Photograph taken for Dr. Hrdli¢ka by Mr. J. Th. Jarman, Assistant Resi-
dent, Ngawi.)

Fig. 71.—Natives opposite the site of the Pithecanthropus bringing in fossils
found about that site. (Photograph by Dr. Hrdlicka.)
NO. I SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1925 71

Fic. 72.—The Pithecanthropus site from the opposite bank. (Photograph
by Dr. Hirdlicka, May 26, 1925.)

Fic. 73.—The Pithecanthropus site from the opposite bank. (Photo-
graph taken for Dr. Hrdli¢ka by Assistant Resident Jarman later in the
summer. )
72 SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VOL. 78

When the actual site of the Pithecanthropus was reached by Dr.
Hrdlicka, under the guidance of the Assistant Resident of Ngawi
and his Chief of Police, a whole gang of natives advised by the
police were already waiting there, bringing each a smaller or larger
pile of fossils gathered from the muddy ledges of the river as
these were exposed by the receding water. These fossils were
eagerly examined but they included no remains of any Primate.
A selection was made, to which the boys added a few specimens
collected at that moment from about the site which gave the Pithe-
canthropus. On the top of the opposite bank stands a cement
monument erected by Dubois and pointing to the spot which yielded
what are probably the most precious remains in existence.

Further excavation here and in other localities along the river
would be relatively easy and a few years of sustained work here
is one of the great needs of Anthropology.

After the site of the Pithecanthropus and its neighborhood were
examined, a little dug-out with two natives took Dr. Hrdlicka down
the river to Ngawi, a distance by river of perhaps 15 miles. During
this trip both of the banks could be closely examined. They and
their prolongation south-eastward are of interest geologically and
there may be spots of paleontological value, but there are no other
sites as promising in the latter respect as that near Trinil.

From Madioen Dr. Hrdli¢ka’s journey led to the eastern portion
of Java, where it was interesting to find in spots traces of the pre
Malay Hindoo population which peopled the island in early historic
times. In the central part of Java these people evidently reached a
high degree of culture and left imposing ruins.

From Java Dr. Hrdlicka traveled by boat along the northwestern
and western Australian: coast, stopping at all the little ports from
Derby to Perth. This gave the opportunity to see numerous pure-
blood Australians, and also some of their impressive nocturnal cere-
monies. Here was encountered an exceptional type of the Australian
from the Wyndham district, differing considerably from the rest of
the natives. Here also were seen for the first time full-blood and
otherwise full-colored Australians with tow hair; more were seen
later on the Trans-Australian Railway at Ooldea. In southern Aus-
tralia other aborigines were seen, particularly on the lower Murray
River.

The principal Australian Museums of interest to Anthropology
are located at Perth, Adelaide, Melbourne, Sydney and Brisbane.
They were found to contain astonishingly rich collections, ethnolo-
gical, archeological and anthropological, from Australia, Tasmania,
73

SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1925

NO.

(ex psy “iq Aq ydessojoyq)

JoARy AeLINIW

IIMOT 9Y} WOT} UPWIOM ueletsny pooyq-[[nF W—sZ

‘OI

JIMO]

(eyoypryH iq Aq ydeisojoyg) “oar Aerinyy
24} woizy uew ueyeysny poorq-y[ny yb “oy

74 SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VOL. 78

and Melanesia, In addition there are several noteworthy private
collections of this nature, two of which (Dr. Basedow’s and Dr.
Pulleine’s, Adelaide), were seen; and important somatological col-
lections are being built up at the Anatomical Departments in the
principal cities.’ The greatest collection of human skeletal material
is that of the Museum of Adelaide. It consists of over 600 skulls
of the Australian aborigines, with numerous skeletons, and it is
being constantly added to under a beneficial law which obliges all
the police officials of the State of which Adelaide is the capital to

Fic. 76.—Three of the tow-haired full-blood Australians of the Ilgarene
Tribe. (Photograph donated to Dr. Hrdlicka.)

forward to the Museum any aboriginal skeletal remains that may be
found.

These precious somatological collections Dr. Hrdli¢ka was per-
mitted to utilize and nearly five weeks were spent in the work,
resulting in securing essential measurements on 1,000 well-identified
skulls of Australians, and on such of the Tasmanians as are pre-
served in the institutions visited.

‘For aid given in connection with his work in Australia, Dr. Hrdlicka is
particularly indebted and thankful to the following: Dr. I. S. Battye, Director
of the Perth Miseum; Mr. A. E. Morgan, U. S. Consular Agent at Perth;
Dr. A. E. Waite, Director of the Museum, Adelaide; Dr. J. A. Kershaw,
Curator of the National Museum, Melbourne; Dr. C. Anderson, Director of the
Australian Museum, Sydney; Professors of Anatomy, R. J. A. Berry (Mel-
bourne), F. Wood Jones and A. N. Burkitt; Drs. Herbert Basedow and R. H.
Pulleine at Adelaide; and the U. S. Consul General at Melbourne.
NO. I SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1925 75

The data obtained in Australia, supplemented by those on the
Tasmanian material in the College of Surgeons, London, throw a
very interesting and to some extent new light on the moot questions
of both the Australian and the Tasmanian aborigines. According to
these observations, the Australian aborigines deserve truly to be
classed as one of the more fundamental races of mankind, and yet
it is a race which shows close connections with our own ancestral
stock—not with the negroes or Melanesians (except through ad-
mixture), but with the old white people of postglacial times. They
carry, however, some admixtures of the Melanesian blacks, which is
more pronounced in some places than in others.

As to the Tasmanians, the indications are that they are in all
probability but a branch of the Australians, modified perhaps a little
in their own country. Both peoples have lived, and the Australians
of the northwest live largely to this day, in a paleolithic stage of
stone culture. They are still making unpolished stone tools, which
in instances resemble the Mousterian implements or later European
paleolithic types. But they are also capable of a much higher class
of work, Today, about Derby, bottles are used in making beautifully
worked spear heads.

In the Anatomical Department of the University of Sydney, with
the kind aid of Professor Burkitt, Dr. Hrdlicka had the chance to
examine several times the Talgai skull, believed to be of geological
antiquity. The specimen was seen to bear undeniable affinities with
the Australian cranial type, but the very large palate and the teeth
need further consideration.

From Australia Dr. Hrdli¢ka’s journey led to South Africa and
disembarking at Durban, Natal, the first task was to see as many as
possible of the Zulu, about whose exact blood affinities there was
some doubt. Large numbers were seen, and the conclusion was
reached that they are unquestionably true negroes, though now and
then as in other negro tribes, showing a trace of Semitic (Arab?)
type due probably to old admixtures.

The two main objects of the visit to South Africa were the
investigation on the spot of the important find of the Rhodesian
skull, and of the recent discovery of the skull of a fossil anthropoid
ape at Taungs, which had been reported as being possibly a direct
link in the line of man’s ascent. South Africa is a land full of
anthropological interest. There is the disappearing old native popu-
lation of Bushmen, Strandloopers, and Hottentots ; the newer negro
population which amounts already to over 7,000,000 and is steadily
increasing ; the almost stationary population of 1,500,000 South Af-
76 SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VOL. 78

rican whites of Dutch and English derivation, who are blending
together and producing a type of their own (as is also happening
on a larger scale in Australia) ; and there are abundant remains of
cultures. Of equal interest are the great finds of the

99

“ paleolithic

Fic. 77,—Mr. Zwigelaar, the miner who with his
“boy” discovered the Rhodesian skull, with the
specimen shortly after the find was made. (Photo-
graph loaned Dr. Hrdlicka by Mr. Zwigelaar. )

Broken Hill mine, Northern Rhodesia, 2,015 miles north of Cape
Town, and of the Buxton quarry, 1,000 miles further southward.
The discovery in 1921 at Broken Hill in Southern Rhodesia of
the skull of the so-called ‘‘ Rhodesian Man” was an event of much
scientific importance. The find, moreover, is still enigmatic. The
skull shows a man so primitive in many of its features that nothing
like it has been seen before. The visit to the Broken Hill mine in
which the skull was discovered proved a good demonstration of the
NO. I SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1925 WG

necessity of a prompt following up by scientific men of each such
accidental discovery. The impracticability of such a following up
in this case has resulted in a number of errors and uncertainties on
important aspects of the case, some of which have already misled
students of the find. It was possible to clear up some of the mooted
points, but others remain obscure and can be definitely decided only
by further discoveries.

As one of the results of the present visit, it was possible to save
and bring for study a collection of bones of animals from the cave,

fry
Wha gull Ls

Fic. 78—Animal and human bones secured by Dr. Hrdlicka at the Broken
Hill Mine; all from the Bone Cave. (Photograph by Dr. Hrdlicka.)

eee |

the lower recesses of which gave the Rhodesian skull, and also two
additional mineralized human bones belonging to two individuals ;
all of which, to facilitate the study of the whole subject, were de-
posited with the earlier relics in the British Museum. The mine is
by no means exhausted, and since the interest of everybody on the
spot is now fully aroused to these matters, there is hope that more
of value may yet be given to science from this locality.

A visit to the Taungs or rather Buxton quarry which yielded,
late in 1924, the high-class anthropoid ape announced in February of
this year by Professor Dart (Nature, Feb. 7), revealed also most
interesting conditions from the standpoint of geology, paleontology,
and anthropology. Here are remnants of a vast plateau, eroded in
the middle by a river to a shallow valley with an escarpment of long
cliffs on each side. In the western escarpment, in ferruginous shales,
78 SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VOL. 78

is an ancient basin filled with remarkably pure limestone. This lime-
stone in turn, through water action, had become honeycombed with
crevices and caves, and in these caves lived, and especially went
to die, ancient baboons and also the recently found anthropoid ape
the existence of which, so far south, has never been suspected. These
remains became covered with sand blown in from the Kalahari Desert.
This sand was in turn permeated with water carrying lime in solu-
tion, forming hard rock in which the remains of the ancient creatures
are enclosed; and here they appear in the stone as this is blasted.
This site is by no means exhausted, at least as far as the smaller
apes are concerned. But to get to the fossils, a man must climb with
the help of a rope a 60-foot vertical cliff, and thrusting his foot into
crevices, must hammer off piece after piece of the hard rock which
contains the remains. In this manner Dr. Hrdli¢cka found five baboon
skulls, only one of which however could be preserved. Other fossils
besides those of baboons have been found in this quarry—turtles,
crabs, large eggs and bones.

Dr. Hrdlicka examined the large fossil skull at Johannesburg Uni-
versity where it is deposited in Professor Dart’s laboratory.’ It be-
longs to a species of anthropoid ape of about the size of a chimpanzee
and evidently related to this form, though there are certain differ-
ences, especially in the brain. These differences suggest that this
ape may possibly have been somewhat superior to the chimpanzee
and nearer to the human. But it is not necessarily a form that stood
in the direct line of the human phylum.

In “ paleoliths,’ South Africa is rich. They may be found in favor-
able spots along the sea shore; in the gravels, banks, and vicinity of
rivers; and they are common in caves. They present forms rather
more like those of India than those of old western Europe; but here
and there, are also close resemblances to the earlier or later European
types. The question of the antiquity of these implements has not yet
been satisfactorily worked out as a great many are found on the
surface and are plainly recent; others may be ancient. That not all
the sites where such implements occur and have hitherto been re-
garded as ancient, are of that nature, was seen along the Zambesi

* Those in South Africa whose aid in Dr. Hrdli¢ka’s work is hereby specially
and thankfully acknowledged are: Professor Raymond A. Dart and many
of his colleagues at the Johannesburg University; the officials of the Broken
Hill Development Company, Northern Rhodesia; those of the Northern Lime
Company, Bechuanaland; Mr. Neville Jones of the London Mission, near
Bulawayo; Professor M. R. Drennan at the Cape Town University; and Mr.
Dewitt C. Poole, U. S. Consul General at Cape Town.
NO. I SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1925 79

Fic. 79—The western wall of the Taungs quarry. The dark spot in the
center is the opening to what remains of the stalagmite cave. On the left
is the 60-foot wall of limestone, from about the middle of which came the
anthropoid skull. On the extreme right is seen the semi-consolidated filling
of a great old cavity in the rock.

on -

me. « ee —

Fic. 80—Northern wall of the Taungs quarry. A darker patch slightly
to the right of the center and mid-way between the face and top of the cliff
shows the filled-in tunnel in which Dr. Hrdlicka found five fossil baboon
skulls.
80 SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VOL. 78

on both sides of the river at Victoria Falls. Here stone implements
were reported as occurring in the ancient gravels of the river, de-
posited along the sides of the stream before the formation of the
falls. A three-days’ examination of conditions, in company with two
Americans, a South African engineer and some negroes was sufficient
to show that the cultural remains here extend over a considerable dis-
tance along both sides of the river, are numerous, superficial, and
in all probability not very ancient. A good-sized collection of the
worked stones was secured for the National Museum,

The Bushmen and the Strandloopers whose remains are being
found in shell heaps and in caves along the southern coast of Cape
Colony, were apparently identical, judging from the osteological evi-
dence that could be seen, and both show a strong affinity with the
Hottentots. And all the essential characteristics of the three, outside
of stature and muscular development, appear to be radically con-
nected with the negro.

Dr. Hrdlicka has returned deeply impressed with the opportunities
for and the need of anthropological research offered by all these dis-
tant parts of the world, and the openings everywhere for American
cooperation. The story of man’s origin, differentiation, spread and
struggle for survival, is evidently greater, far greater than ordinarily
conceived, and a vast amount of work remains for its satisfactory
solution.

A brief stop on the return journey was made in England, where,
thanks to the courtesy of Sir Arthur Keith, of the Royal College of
Surgeons, the precious Tasmanian cranial collection of that institution
could be examined. Here also, thanks to those in charge of the
Department of Geology, British Museum (Natural History), it was
possible to examine once more the Rhodesian originals.

ARCHEOLOGICAL INVESTIGATIONS AT PUEBLO BONITO AND
PUEBLO DEL ARROYO, NEW MEXICO

Under the auspices of the National Geographic Society, Mr. Neil
M. Judd, curator of American archeology, U. S. National Museum,
continued, during the summer months of 1925, his exploration’ of
Pueblo Bonito, a prehistoric communal village in northwestern New
Mexico. The extensive excavations inaugurated at this particular ruin
in 1921 had been concluded by the autumn of 1924. In course of the

* Smithsonian Misc. Coll., Vol. 72, Nos. 6 and 15; Vol. 74, No. 5; Vol. 76,
No. 10; Vol. 77, No. 2.
81

SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1925

NO.

(‘AJa190G oy desso0ar [euoneN
-o}OYg ) ‘dwied s,
SIV) WEI} SUITIEM O} Stade19s UMEIP-ds1Oy Aq passeap sure
‘PeOI ‘Jsnsny Ul UayP} ‘MIA DAOge dy} UT “AYNOyWp ysoyVII

ay} JO Asayinoy ‘suaaeyy ‘Dd ‘OQ Aq ydeas

uolpadxy 94} puodaq ysnf ayqista Oo1Ie daap ayy ‘ul uoNIsodap pue ‘oj Jaysues} 10F

q SI SpaAoys puey Y}AM pouiny} ysay stiqap
8 prsoyo syjeM ysry Aq pasojoua swoo0y

‘pasueyd SuONIpuod [RO] Se parliea OMUO O[qoang SsulyeAvoxa ul padojduia spoyjour 218 Eade? SOs

82 SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VOL. 78

work, however, traces of earlier structures underlying the floors of
the great pueblo were frequently disclosed by the explorers. Such
discoveries naturally required thorough understanding and, to this
end, the studies planned for Pueblo Bonito in 1925 were intended
to be mainly chronological and stratigraphical. While these tech-
nical investigations—by their very nature, slow and tedious—were
in progress, most of the 25 Indian laborers employed by the expe-
dition were put to work in the neighboring ruin, Pueblo del Arroyo.

This latter structure is severely rectangular except that its two
ends are connected by an eastward curving series of low, one-story
rooms. Since the south wing and the extramural habitations adjoin-
ing it had been excavated during the two previous field seasons, the
efforts of the 1925 party were centered on the middle portion of the
village. Some of the outward results of this investigation are apparent
in the accompanying illustrations.

In accord with the original plan of procedure, the north wing of
Pueblo del Arroyo and the curved series of rooms on the east have
been left undisturbed. This decision was made deliberately and with
realization that modern archeological research, no matter how thor-
ough, is rarely conclusive; that the National Geographic Society or
some other institution might, at some future time, wish to confirm the
deductions of the current expedition.

In seeking last summer to establish a chronology for Pueblo Bonito
several outstanding discoveries were made. Not all of these could have
been anticipated. It was learned, for example, that the site occupied
by this largest of all prehistoric villages in Chaco Canyon National
Monument had been utilized long prior to construction of the great
pueblo itself—a pueblo whose massive architecture has won the ad-
miration of American antiquarians generally, Vast quantities of
wind-blown detritus, floor sweepings and other refuse had accumu-
lated during the centuries throughout which Pueblo Bonito was in-
habited—accumulations on which the more recent dwellings were
constructed. Ten feet below the foundations of these latter houses
were the broken remains of two primitive structures erected by pre-
Pueblo peoples ; that is, by Indians who had not yet learned the bene-
fits of such community enterprise as is represented by the complex
dwellings and obvious civic organization of later house-building
tribes. The deposits which covered these primitive structures—de-
posits consisting of successive layers of ash, blown sand and rubbish
from razed and rebuilt dwellings—gave the long-sought stratigraphic
evidence by means of which the inhabitants of Pueblo Bonito could
be separated.

(o/@)

SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1925

NO.

(‘AQo1ID0G d1yde1so0ar)
jeuorjeN 94} JO Asoyinoy ‘susaeyT ‘Dd ‘O Aq Ydeis
-0J}0YUq) ‘ose sieak Of ‘uOAURD ODeYD UI SodUaTIOdxa
puke suoljeatosqo tay} ppnf{ “Ap, 0} pozejor ‘19zUTM JO
MOUS }SIY IY} I1OF9q SIttO}S SUI][o} YSno1y} Ssouqj! sno
“19S SUPYSII “OYUM OYPARN IqQeIaUdA OM T—EQ “DIT

(AyaI90g Iydesso0ay [euoeN 9y} JO Asayined ‘sudaryzy
‘0 'O Aq ydessojoyg) ‘ppnf “1y_~ YIM soyqand zuaroue
oles 9SOY} psullexs dy ‘UOI{Ipadxy OyUOg o;qeng ay} Jo
}Sond B SB ‘Io}R] SIVA JYSI9-AJIO} “suIMI UOAURD ODRYD
94} Peqi4dosop pure po}Ista ‘sAIAING ][eIIS0[OIN uapdeyz]
ay} JO ‘uosysef “HE “M “IN ‘ZZQ1 ‘Avy, ul —zg ‘oly

84 SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VOL. 78

Pueblo Bonito was occupied contemporaneously by two distinct
groups of prehistoric agriculturists. The explorations of the preced-
ing four summers had established this fact beyond question. Their
dwellings, their ceremonial chambers, their cultural remains were
alike divisible into two classes. One of these was early; the other,
late. And yet, throughout a considerable period the two were co-
existent. As the evidence accumulated with each successive ex-
pedition it became the more certain that Pueblo Bonito, as it stood

Fic. 84.—From the north rim of Chaco Canyon one looked down upon a
veritable maze of foundation walls that emerged from beneath the outer
rooms of Pueblo Bonito and continued eastward more than 500 feet. (Photo-
graph by O. C. Havens. Courtesy of the National Geographic Society. )

at the time of its abandonment, represented the individual and yet
cooperative efforts of these two distinct peoples. Their clan organ-
izations were obviously similar; their daily activities were probably
identical; the utensils they used daily in their several households,
while exhibiting no marked difference to the untrained eye, showed
to the archeologist dissimilarities that could only have resulted from
the industry of separate groups, each trained to its own mode
of thought and self expression. The researches of the expedition
during 1925 fixed beyond reasonable conjecture the truth of these
earlier deductions.
NO. I SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1925 85

Two members of Mr. Judd’s scientific staff devoted their un-
divided attention last summer to examination of the pottery frag-
ments collected from the individual rooms explored during the previ-
ous four seasons. These sherds were separable into various types,
based on the stratigraphic evidence above mentioned. As an indi-
cation of the vast number of vessels fashioned by prehistoric potters,
final tabulation of the fragments from Pueblo Bonito alone, after
eliminating all possible duplicates, shows over two hundred thousand

Fic. 85.—Not the least puzzling of the many riddles connected with the
foundations above pictured was the purpose served by this group of seven
huge, ash-filled ovens. (Photograph by O. C. Havens. Courtesy of the
National Geographic Society. )

individual pieces. These represent successive periods of occupancy
as well as variations in design and technique for each such period.
In assembling the information conveyed by these fragments of
broken pottery more than two million sherds were handled at least
twice. Lesser ceramic collections from Pueblo del Arroyo were
studied with equal devotion to detail.

By a series of four great trenches the site occupied by Pueblo
Bonito, together with its immediate surroundings, was laid bare.
Each trench provided a cross section by means of which the Ex-
pedition staff was enabled to visualize the successive changes which

i
MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VOL. 78

SMITHSONIAN

86

(Ajya1I90G d1yde41s004)
jeuoieN 34} Jo Asayinoy ‘susaepx{E “D ‘CO Aq ydeis
-o}OYd) ‘avidety ssny e SEM YSIqqnt opetu-ueuUl Jo
ByeIJS IAISSIOONS AQ UIe[IZAO PU 19}}R] JY} YEUNG
jooF S UvY} DIOP “OPLUO OTGaNg JO [[VM YINOS 39}N0
24} JsuUrese papus PUL PUNOW dsNyot jsva ay} Pa}daSIK
youss} AtOyes1O[Ax9 psy} SuoNIpsdxy oy [—Zg “oly

(‘AjatI90G o1rydeisoas) jeuoy
-BN 94} Jo Asayinoy ‘susaepy “Dd ‘O Aq ydeisojoyg )
‘QSRT[IA JUOIOUe SITY} FO ATOJSIY IYSowWIOp sy} pasnyoid
SWM Uld1OFY ‘ashfot pyOyssnoy fo suoneynumooe poy
-e41jS PUB JoJIUILIP UT Jodf OF JIAO VAI pazet ATE}
-ied e ‘s][VM parting Ajdsap poyeeAc1 OyUOg oO]qeng

JO JANOD JSAM JY} YSNOIY, YuUSI] yeo1s W—9g “DLT

NO; 1 SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1925 8&7

occurred throughout the entire period of human occupancy. Hearths
were encountered eight feet, and more, below the surface; evidence
of frequent reconstruction, of alterations in the grouping of dwel-
lings, of destructive conflagrations were disclosed by these cross
sections.

In addition, a former channel for the diversion of flood waters—
mud-laden floods that refused to stay within the man-made banks
intended for them—to cultivated fields below the village was brought
to light for the first time since abandonment of Pueblo Bonito a
thousand years or more ago. No trace of small irrigation ditches has
yet been found in Chaco Canyon and the diversion channel just
mentioned tends, therefore, to confirm the opinion of the Expedi-
tion’s staff and technical advisers that the ancient Bonitians practiced
a system of flood irrigation not unlike that employed today by certain
of the more successful Navaho farmers of northwestern New Mexico
or, on a larger scale, by the Hopi, Pima and Papago Indians of
Arizona.

During the course of the National Geographic Society’s explora-
tions at Pueblo Bonito and Pueblo del Arroyo, indisputable evi-
dence of the former presence of human beings, semi-sedentary in
habit, has been observed as much as 20 feet below the present
valley surface. These ancient folk were far less civilized than the
Bonitians but, owing to the depth at which their infrequent remains
lie buried, we may not hope to learn much about them, Fragmentary
remains are there but the limits of the crude culture to which
they belong are still indeterminable.

There are factors that point to certain changes in the geophysical
appearance of Chaco Canyon since the period of Pueblo Bonito’s
greatest prestige; there is accumulative evidence in support of pos-
sible climatic changes during or since that same period. The former
existence of a prehistoric arroyo, 18 feet deep immediately in front
of Pueblo Bonito, was finally established by the Expedition of
1925. The data already assembled suggest that this ancient water
course, now completely filled and leveled over, may have rendered
the cultivated fields of the Bonitians unproductive, thus forcing
abandonment of this, at one time the most influential and power-
ful of all prehistoric pueblos in the southwestern United States.
88 SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VOL. 78

Fic. 88.—In excavating the central portion of Pueblo del Arroyo, debris
from the individual rooms was wheeled in barrows to accessible points
and dragged thence to an elevated trap through which it was poured into
steel tram cars. (Photograph by O. C. Havens. Courtesy of the National
Geographic Society. )

Fic. 89—By September, 1925, exploration of Pueblo del Arroyo had been
completed but the original court pavement still lay several feet below the
last level of human occupancy. (Photograph by O. C. Havens. Courtesy
of the National Geographic Society.)

NO. 1 SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1925 89

ARCHEOLOGICAL AND ANTHROPOMETRICAL WORK IN
MISSISSIPPI

Henry B. Collins, Jr., assistant curator of ethnology, U. S. Na-
tional Museum, was engaged during the summer of 1925 in an
archeological reconnoissance and exploration of the ancient Choctaw
territory in Mississippi for the Bureau of American Ethnology.
In cooperation with the Bureau, the Mississippi Department of
Archives and History detailed Mr. H. H. Knoblock, assistant in
the department, to participate in the work.

The region selected for investigation was the eastern part of
the state, the former center of the Choctaw tribe. Here are found
not only the village sites known to have been occupied by the
Choctaw within historic times, but also a number of prehistoric
mounds similar to those found throughout the Mississippi Valley and
in other parts of the South and East, denoting a still earlier occu-
pancy of this region by either the Choctaw themselves or by related
tribes.

At the time of first contact with Europeans, the Choctaw were
the most numerous of all the southern Indians. They are also gen-
erally regarded as a basic type, culturally and physically, of the
great Muskhogean linguistic stock. In any consideration of the
ethnic problems of the South, therefore, the Choctaw must assume
a place of importance, but as yet very little work has been done
among them. It was decided, therefore, that operations for the
summer should be confined to definitely-known Choctaw territory,
devoting part of the time to exploration of historic village sites
and part to the excavation of prehistoric mounds, in an attempt to
establish as far as possible the relation of the two.

Mr. Collins left Jackson, May 24, to make a reconnoissance of
the field and to select sites for exploration. Mounds were examined
in the counties of Hinds, Lowndes, Winston, Neshoba, Kemper,
Newton, Lauderdale, Clarke, and Wayne. Perhaps the most im-
portant earthwork examined was Nanih Watya, the sacred mound
of the Choctaws, in the southern part of Winston County, shown
in figure 90. This famous mound, one of the largest and best pre-
served in Mississippi, is regarded by the Choctaw as their place of
origin, and figures prominently in their legendary history.

The historic village sites visited were Holihtasha, Yanabi, East
Yazoo, Shomo Takali, and Ibetap Okla Iskitini, all in Kemper
County; Halunlawasha and Kastasha in Neshoba County; Coat-
raw in Newton; Coosha in Lauderdale; and Yowanne in Wayne
County.
go SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VOL. 7

The work of reconnoissance was concluded early in June and
excavations were begun on a group of eight small burial mounds
on the farm of Mr. Lawrence Slay near Crandall, in Clarke County.
These mounds averaged about 30 feet in diameter and were for
the most part unstratified. Skeletal remains, ranging in number from
one individual to fifteen or more, were found in each mound. Evi-
dences of cremation were observed in several of the mounds and
in one of them, resting on a thick layer of charcoal, was found
a compact mass of broken and calcined bones, representing the
remains of a dozen or more individuals. As is usual in mounds of
this type, the bones were in a very poor state of preservation even

Itc. 90.—Nanih Watya, sacred mound of the Choctaw, in Winston County,
Mississippi. According to Choctaw tradition, Nanih Waiya is the birth
place of the tribe, the first man and woman having come up from the under-
world through the mound.

where they had not been subjected to fire. Figure 91, showing the
bone layer in one of the mounds, will afford some idea of the
condition in which the bones were found. From the few accounts
we have of the early explorations into the Choctaw country, it is
known that the burial customs of this tribe during the eighteenth
century and earlier were different from those practiced at a later
date. The dead were formerly placed on a platform erected for
the purpose, from which, some months later, they were removed
by the “ bone-pickers,” whose official duty it was to carefully scrape
and clean the bones. These were then placed in cane hampers
and deposited in the bone house, one or more of which was to be
found in each Choctaw village. The bones were later taken from
the bone house and carried some distance from the village, where
NO. I SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1925 gI
they were finally buried in a promiscuous heap and a mound of
earth erected over them This custom was not confined to the
Choctaw alone but was quite widespread as is evidenced by the
presence of similar mounds or ossuaries in many localities of the
eastern United States and Canada.

Following the excavation of the Crandall mounds, work was
begun on a much larger mound of a different type on the property
oer B. j. and Mr. R. L.. McRae, near the town of Increase.
Approximately one third of the mound was excavated by trenching,
and while no skeletal material and only a few artifacts were found,

Fic. 91—Layer of human bones in small sand mound near Crandall, Clarke
County, Mississippi.

the peculiar stratification seemed to warrant as thorough an ex-
amination as was made (see fig. 92). This stratification consisted
of a series of brilliantly colored sand layers, yellow, brown, orange,
blue-gray, and pure white, from which, at the center of the mound,
there suddenly arose a dome-shaped structure of compact yellow
clay. This clay dome and the succession of colored sand strata
probably had a ceremonial significance, having been placed on the
floor of what had very likely been a temple, the site of which was
later covered over with a mound of earth, on the top of which, still
later, there probably stood a temple or council house. Colored sand
strata in much the same arrangment have also been found in the

effigy mounds of Wisconsin.
g2 SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VOL. 78

Within this small inner mound or clay dome was found a rec-
tangular ornament of sheet copper and silver enclosing a core of
wood, shown in situ in figure 93. Both copper and silver are shown
by analysis to be native American, probably from the Lake Superior
region. Silver and copper ornaments practically identical to this
have been found in small numbers in Florida, Tennessee, Ohio, and
Michigan.

Thin, flaked knives, struck with a single blow from flint cores,
were found both in the mound and in the adjoining field. These

Fic. 92.—Stratification of colored sand and clay in McRae mound, near
Increase, Clarke County, Mississippi.

are identical in every respect with the flaked knives from Flint
Ridge in Ohio which, while abundant in the Ohio mounds, are
rarely found in other localities.

With the most significant features of the McRae mound so
strongly suggesting northern influence, we must conclude that the
builders of this Mississippi mound maintained at least a close trade
relationship with the northern tribes. While undoubtedly the many
mounds and various other earthworks of North America were built
by Indian tribes of diverse stocks, there are certain resemblances
between even the most distant of them which suggest a contact
something more than sporadic.

Work was next begun on a group of seven small mounds on the
property of Mr. J. M. Kettler near Hiwannee, in Wayne County.
NO; 1 SMITHSONIAN ENPLORATIONS, 1925 93

In size, construction, and contents they were similar to those pre-
viously excavated at Crandall.

With the completion of the mounds at Hiwannee in early July,
explorations were started on the site of the historic Choctaw village
of Coosha, near Lockhart in Lauderdale County, on the property
of Mr. W. E. Frederickson. The cemetery was located and ex-

e
3
Ss

Or ome E sia

Fic. 93.—Ornament of sheet copper and silver in McRae
mound, Clarke County, Mississippi.

amined, but the burials were comparatively recent, dating probably
between 1800 and 1830, by which time the Choctaw had lost much
of their native culture. Except for the presence of mortuary offer-
ings, consisting for the most part of beads, porcelain, and cooking
utensils, the burials were typical of those of the whites.

It is believed that the archeological work described above reveals
something in the nature of chronological cross section of the three
most important phases of Choctaw culture history. At the Coosha
village, conditions were found which were typical of the last phase
94 SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VOL. 78
of Choctaw history, when their native culture was rapidly breaking
down and assuming the essential features of the dominant white
civilization. The small burial mounds at Crandall and Hiwannee,
dating perhaps from the first half of the eighteenth century, belong
in all probability to the period immediately preceding, when mounds
were still built, but only for purposes of burial. The earliest of the
three stages, perhaps antedating by centuries the smaller burial
mounds, is represented in the McRae mound.

Fic. 94.—Choctaw Indians engaged in a game of native ball at Phila-
delphia, Mississippi. There are at the present time about 1,100 Choctaws in
the state.

The explorations at Coosha brought to a close the archeological
work of the summer, and Mr. Collins and Mr. Knoblock proceeded
to Philadelphia, Miss., where measurements and observations were
made on the living Choctaw, of whom there are still about a thou-
sand in the state. Measurements were secured on 58 adults, some
of which undoubtedly have white or negro blood.’ The coopera-
tion of Mr. T. M. Scott, of the Indian Agency at Philadelphia,
was very helpful in this work. Particular thanks are also due to Mr.
Weaver Bridges of Philadelphia and to Mr. H. B. Cole, of Quit-
man, both of whom rendered valuable assistance in many ways.

*The results of this study have been published in the American Journal of
Physical Anthropology, Vol. 8, No. 4, 1925.
1925

EXPLORATIONS,

SMITHSONIAN

NO.

(3ypo]qouyy Aq ydessojoyg) “dnoss sty} ut suetpuy ayy yo asquinu e

rodnseayy “scOr ‘A[nf ‘iddississiy ‘erydjapeyryg je yyeq aAneu yo aes v Jo} pojquiasse suvipuy Me}OYD FO dnoin—C6 ‘ony

4 7
¥

UO Ud} 919M SUOTPAJISqO [eoIS8ojo1skyd pue syuaw

96 SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VOL. 78

ARCHEOLOGICAL STUDIES OF. THE WUPATKI NATIONAE
MONUMENT

So little was known in 1853 of the physical features of the region
between the Zuni and the Colorado Rivers, that in that year Captain
Sitgreaves, of the U. S. Corps of Topographical Engineers, was sent
by the Secretary of War to follow the Zuni River to its junction with
the Little Colorado and on to Yuma. One object of this trip, which

‘

now seems almost ludicrous, was to determine the “ navigable prop-
erties” of the two rivers. It did not take long to determine this.
Captain Sitgreaves records that between Camps 13 and 14, near the
Great Falls of the Little Colorado, ‘all the prominent points [were |
occupied by the ruins of stone houses of considerable size, and in
some instances of three stories in height. They are evidently,’ he
writes, “the remains of a large town, as they occurred at intervals
for an extent of eight or nine miles, and the ground was thickly
strewed with fragments of pottery in all directions.”

In 1900 these ruins, then locally called the Black Falls ruins, were
described and first figured by the present Chief of the Bureau of
American Ethnology, Dr. J. Walter Fewkes, who was so much im-
pressed by their magnitude that he recommended they should be
preserved by the National Government.’ In 1925, his hope was rea-
lized and they were declared a National Monument by Presidential
proclamation.

Other literature on this monument is meagre, but the archeology
of the Flagstaff region has lately been studied by Professor and
* small
houses” of this region.” The construction of a road recently laid

‘

Mrs. Colton, who have published valuable material on the

bare a prehistoric cemetery at Young’s Canyon, 183 miles east of
Flagstaff, and the objects there brought to light have been acquired
and a description of them published.’

At least two types of large ruins occur in this area, the former
of which is represented by the Citadel, figures 96 and 97. The second

*A cluster of Arizona ruins which should be preserved. Records of the
Past, Vol. III, Pt. 1, pp. 3-19, Washington, 10904.

* The little known small house ruins in the Coconino forest. Mem. Am.
Anthrop. Assn., Vol. V, No. 4, 1918.

Did the so-called cliff dwellers of central Arizona also build hogans? Am.
Anthrop., Vol. 22, 1920.

* An archeological collection from Young’s Canyon, near Flagstaff, Arizona.
Smithsonian Misc. Coll., Vol. 77, No. to.
NO. I SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1925 Q7

Fic. 96.—The Citadel and terraced gardens, and small ruins near them.

Fic. 97—Rooms and fallen walls on top of Citadel.
98 SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VOL. 78

type, figure 101, contains rectangular ruins of slabs of stone masonry
erected on the rims of shallow canyons, which were apparently
used as habitations.

The most imposing ruin is the so-called Citadel, which. from a
distance resembles a volcanic peak, the cone of which is capped with
walls made of sandstone and lava rocks, the sides of the elevation
being strewn with these blocks which have fallen from the walls at
the apex. Figure 96 shows this Citadel from the side, and figure 97
indicates the broken-down walls and the general character of the
fallen masonry on the surface. The Citadel had many rooms ap-
parently built around a central open space or plaza, the masonry
being composed of lava blocks and sandstone slabs. The numerous
stones down the sides of the Citadel now and then are arranged in
rows, calling to mind retaining walls or trincheras so common on
hillsides of southern Arizona and the northern states of Mexico,

Tcuaki (Snake House). The ruin here first called Tcuaki (figs.
98, 99), is situated about 30 miles from Flagstaff, Arizona, and
is in reality composed of two clusters of rooms connected by a long
wall, possibly modern, which follows the summit of a sandstone
ridge. The corners of the walls have fallen down the sides cf the
ridge, covering the roofs of the subterranean rooms at the base of
the cliffs. In the year 1900, rafters and remains of these roofs were
well shown and a few fragments of roofs still remain im situ, as if
lately abandoned. As in all these ruins, there were numerous basal
rooms from which many specimens were obtained, but the best
objects were found in the rooms above the surface or those on
the summit of the ridge. The rooms were two stories high, the floors
of the lowest story being generally buried under fallen debris.

Alaki (Horn House). The ruin called Alaki or Horn House, also
of the Great House dormitory type, is characteristic of the Wu-
patki monument. It is shown in figure to1. There are massive build-
ings above and the subterranean basal walls below. In the neighbor-
hood of Alaki there are several small stone subterranean houses,
each generally with a single room, possibly pit dwellings.

The canyon on the rim of which Alaki stands becomes “ blind”
a few hundred feet from the ruin and is exceptional in having ex-
cavated in its walls small rectangular cubby holes formerly closed by
slabs of stone, all of which have been broken and many have been
destroyed. These recesses were apparently used for storage cysts,
and are not confined to this canyon.

* Records of the Past, op. cit.
NO. I SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, I9Q25 99

Fic. 98.—Tcuaki, showing the two large buildings and connecting wall,
which was possibly constructed by sheep herders. These and neighboring
buildings are called Wupatki in the President’s proclamation.

Fic. 99.—T cuaki.
100 SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VOL. 78

Fic. to1.—Alaki.

Fic. 102.—Ruin near Alaki.

These ruins are referred to in the map in the President’s proclamation as
belonging to the Citadel group.
NO. I SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1925 101

Wukoki. Wukoki, figure 103, the tallest building of the Black
Falls buildings, belongs to the second type and is the highest and
best preserved of these buildings. It presents some of the finest
masonry on the monument, and almost entirely covers the top of the
small mesa. From a distance across the sands, its prominent walls
resemble a castle, its base rising about 15 feet above the neighboring
plain.

General features of the walls. The walls of the large buildings
that form the most striking feature of the Wupatki monument

Fic. 103.—Wukoki (near Wupatki Monument). It is hoped that Wukoki
may later be included in the Monument.

belong to the fine masonry of the Southwest. They are constructed
of a filling faced on both surfaces with slabs of dressed stone, often
more or less artificially worked and laid in courses, But, as in the
construction of all masonry in the Southwest, some of the first prin-
ciples of masonry are neglected. For instance, the corner binding of
stones is neglected and there is seldom an overlapping of the same in
order to tie the component stones of the wall together. The corners
especially show weakness in this particular for they are seldom
fitted together. The stones are sometimes roughly hewn, the alter-
nating courses being often pitted on the surfaces, but also occasion-

ally decorated with incised geometrical designs. The doors and en-
8
O

102 SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VOL: 7

trances to the rooms are generally lateral and the few windows are
small, circular or rectangular. Two or three of these buildings
contain but a single room, others are multi-chambered, and in the
largest buildings three stories can be distinguished.

The roofs of all the rooms are simple, flat coverings, supported
by several large logs extending from one wall to its opposite, across
which are laid willow twigs supporting a layer of cedar bark, the
whole being covered with clay. There are evidences of fireplaces
centrally placed, and in a few instances ashes were found in one
corner. In one room there is an elaborate chimney, possibly modern,
communicating through the walls with a fireplace, extending a few
feet above the highest masonry. Although the walls are generally
constructed of sandstone, they also show alternate layers of lava rock
which, contrasted with the intervening courses of red sandstone, add
a picturesque appearance to the whole. As is customary in pueblo
construction the stones are laid in adobe in which often occur im-
bedded pottery shards and fragments of stones. The marks of human
fingers also appear in the mud plastering, especially where the walls
are protected by overhanging cliffs. The walls of the rooms were
seen in one case to be plastered on the inside with adobe decorated
with red pigment, like the dadoes of the modern Hopi houses.

At the base of the cliffs there are several walled-in shrines or rude
rock inclosures, generally containing water-worn pebbles or fossil
shells which were no doubt religious offerings. These also contained
prayer sticks, figure 105, b, b’, and in one instance a wooden image of
human form, figure 105, quite unlike, however, any idols which have
previously been described. Clusters of pictographs generally of
geometrical forms adorn the walls of the canyons on which the larger
buildings have been built.

The characteristic features of the Wupatki buildings are the small
rectangular stone-walled rooms of good masonry and the  subter-
ranean rooms at the base of the low cliffs on which they stand. No
kivas have yet been excavated; those shown on the map are doubt-
ful ceremonial rooms,

Typical specimens of Wupatki Monument pottery resemble those
found in the cemetery at Young’s Canyon.’ They belong to a pre-
puebloan type found throughout Arizona underlying the more bril-
liant Sikyatki ware and the related Homolobi-Chevlon forms. The

*Smithsonian Misc. Coll., Vol. 77, No. ro.
NO. | SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1925 103

Fic. 104.—Type designs on inside of bowls from Wupatki, southern
Tokonabi ceramic culture.

a. Key figures covering whole inside area.

b. Alien designs.

c. Central unfilled space surrounded by serrated bands.

d. Central unoccupied space and peripheral border. Quadrate design in
which square white figures with black dots predominate.

e. Typical quadrate design with Greek fret border.

f. Quadrate design in white on a black background. The square central
figure is characteristic of Wupatki ware.
104 SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VOL. 78

prevailing ceramic types are corrugated, black on white, and_poly-
chrome, dull red with shiny black interiors. The food bowls often
have out-curve rims and single loop handles. The colander form, or
food bowl perforated with holes, occurs both at Wupatki and at
Marsh Pass.

The designs on the well decorated pottery, both black on white
and polychrome, figure 104, are similar to those from Tokonabi.
These decorations cover the whole interior of the bowls except the
very center, and have a quadrate arrangement, in some examples
of which rows of white squares with black dots predominate. The
flaring rims of food bowls are adorned with special geometrical pat-
terns forming the framework of the main interior design.

The dead were inhumated or cremated. A typical human inter-
ment found in the sands near the ruin, Wukoki, was enclosed in a
cyst made of stone slabs set on edge, covered with another slab of
rock, resembling those in the Marsh Pass region. In one of these
graves was a skeleton with two pendants made of lignite and tur-
quoise mosaic like Hopi ear rings, figure 105, c, as fine specimens of
jewelry as any known from the Little Colorado region. Several mor-
tuary vessels were found with the dead, and also remains of fabrics,
apparently kilts or garments.

Additional facts of a comparative nature are much needed in
order to explain the difference between decorations on the Wupatki
pottery and the beautiful designs on the Homolobi-Chevlon ceramics
from ruins higher up on the Little Colorado. There is also a difference
between the pottery and architecture of this region and those of
Young’s Canyon a few miles away. So far as known it would appear
that the Homolobi-Chevlon culture, which is allied to that of the Hopi
ruins, Awatobi and Sikyatki, and to that of the Jeddito and Bitar-
hootci valleys, although late prehistoric, was more modern than that
of Wupatk:.

As elsewhere suggested, both architecture and ceramic designs from
Wupatki are practically the same as those from Marsh Pass, prob-
ably indicating that the latter is an identical and synchronous culture
area which in Hopi Snake legends is called Tokonabi (Kayenta). This
far-flung culture area is quite unlike that which occurs higher up on
the Little Colorado at Homolobi and Chevlon, the artifacts of which
are more closely related to the Sikyatki and Awatobi and probably
is more modern, as Hopi migration legends state.
NO.

I SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1925

Fic. 105.—a, Wooden image from shrine near Tcuaki. 0, D’,
Possible shaft of throwing stick from near Tcuaki. c, One of two
mosaic ear pendants made of turquoise and lignite set on lignite
base from stone grave near Wukoki. The grave contained a large
decorated black and white vase and fragments of cloth.
106 SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VOL. 78

RESEARCHES ON THE ARCHEOLOGY OF SOUTHERN
CALIFORNIA

At the close of June, 1925, Mr. J. P. Harrington, ethnologist of
the Bureau of American Ethnology, proceeded to Santa Barbara,
California, to continue his researches on the Mission Indians. Many
Indian rancheria sites of this region were visited in the course of his
work. In the Santa Ynez valley alone, more than 4o ruined villages
were inspected, and in the Otay and Simi valleys some 30 more, at
several of which extensive excavations were made.

Pictographs were discovered and photographed; also many rocks
which represent mythological personages or form the crucial land-

Fic. 106.—Medicine rock surrounded with cacti.

mark of ancient legends. Spirit footprints on the rocks, of gigantic
size, were said to have been made by the “first people’ when the
earth was still soft and muddy.

At San Marcos the boulders on a hillside represent the warriors of
a mythic battle; some are standing with the blood from wounds
running down their sides, seen as stains on the rock. A site was also
visited where two boulders are situated six feet apart. Indian boys
used to attempt to jump from one to the other, and if they succeeded
it was a sign that they would be able to jump around the mountains
in later years without skinning their legs. A medicine rock (fig. 106)
was also visited, a symmetrical pinnacle of stone surrounded with a
NO. I SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1925 107

circle of cacti in such a way as quite effectually to keep away in-
truders.

At the Rincon, Mr. Harrington discovered the ruins of a medicine
house formerly used by the island wizards for secret ceremonies.
This remarkable structure consists of a natural cave chamber, black-
ened with the smoke of former fires, On the east side is a circular
enclosure 18 feet in diameter, the walls of which, made by piling
up rocks to a height of about three feet, are still partly standing.
Pine trees were formerly laid across from the top of this wall to the
roof of the cave, and on these thatch was placed. An extended study
was made of this temple, and the cave floor was excavated. There
was a tradition that 1f a common Indian came on this place by mistake
he would be struck dead and that if an innocent person happened
to stroll near, thunder, lightning and rain would immediately result.

Since little is known of the California Indian house of this section,
it was thought desirable to construct a replica of a native wigwam
and to photograph step by step the building of it (fig. 107). In all
more than 40 exposures were made as the work progressed, thus
securing a record for future description. The wigwam is circular and
about 13 feet in diameter and 7 feet high. The site for the house
was selected and the ground cleared and leveled. Using a short bar
of willow for digging the post holes and the hand for scooping out
the earth, eight slender willow poles, 15 to 20 feet high, were erected
in the form of a Greek cross. The pairs of poles opposite each other
were then lashed together to form arches 7 feet high, Other up-
rights were then added until the poles formed a complete wall and

“ee

were only “a short step apart.’ Smaller poles, called “latas” in
Spanish, were then lashed on the outside of the uprights at intervals
of about a foot (fig. 108). The thatching material

brakes, or grass—was laid on in tiers, the lowest tier standing

tule, carrizo,

upright with the butt end in the ground to form a firm base for
the wall and subsequent tiers upside down, as the inverted leaves
shed water better. The material used for lashing this house was
mescal fiber. Outer “latas,” opposite the inner ones, hold the
thatch firm, and it is sewed in place by means of a great needle
of willow wood which is poked through the thatch, two workers
being required at this stage of the construction. The thatching,
when compressed, is only four inches thick, and is impervious
to wind and rain. At the top of the house an ample hole is left
for the exit of smoke. A fire place with pot-resting stone occupies
the center of the earth floor.
Fic. 107.—Modern wigwam of Southern Californian Indians; constructed
under Mr. Harrington’s direction.

ok see ~ L
pe - Fe eatine t5 oe enti sos Sr oa
a. ey es

Fic. 108.

Framework of wigwam of Southern Californian Indians; con-
structed under Mr. Harrington’s direction.
INO BT SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1925 10g

The doorway of the house is only a yard high and about two feet
wide. It is closed by a door made by tying together an oblong
frame of willow poles and weaving small willow twigs to fill this
frame. Another type of door is a tule mat, stood on end. The
Indian word “to lock the door” really says “to tie the door,”
for the only protection from intruders when Indians went away
and left the house was such a mat or frame, carelessly tied—and
Indian etiquette, which said that a stranger should not enter. Simi-
lar mats were used for sleeping and for sitting on the floor, and
are surprisingly warm when used for such purposes. The Indians
slept with nothing between themselves and the cold earth but one

‘

of these “ petates de tule.”

Some of the Indians had their houses lined on the inside with
similar tule mats, much as we use wallpaper, but in the poorer
houses, thatch and twigs showed on the inside. Between the poles
and thatching, all kinds of Indian utensils and furnishings were
stored out of the reach of children and in sight when needed for
use.

On completing the Indian house, Mr. Harrington started in the
latter part of October on an expedition to the Canada de las Uvas.
This trip proved rich in discovery along several different lines.
Many of the archeological sites visited had not been touched since
Indian times, and Mr. Harrington found without difficulty the
old hut circles on the surface of the ground, either marked by
rings of rocks, formed by the Indians clearing the surface for the
hut, or by rings of raised earth which mark the former walls.

The first work was at the village of Sikutip, where the Indian
huts were formerly clustered at the southwest border of the cienega.
There are many interesting rocks and caves in the neighborhood,
and four minor springs were located. Only a mile away is Choriy,
another large village.

The largest village discovered was that known as Milyahu (fig.
109). This differed from the other sites in being located on a de-
tached rocky hill which has the appearance of a great towering
citadel when seen from the arroyo. The little Indian wigwam
circles, varying in diameter from 12 to 20 feet, were found all over
the summit of this hill. The water used by the people of Milyahu
is supplied by a spring which gushes forth from the sandy bed
of the dry arroyo opposite the middle of the Indian town, All the
water had to be carried up a cliff 75 feet or more in height,
reminding one of the practice at some of the Pueblos. Figure 110
I1O SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VOL. 7

Fic. 109.—The great citadel of Milyahu, viewed from downstream. The
spring is in the bed of the arroyo at the left. The entire top of the hill was
covered with thatched jacales, the pits for which have not been disturbed
to any extent since the time the village was occupied.

Fic. 110—A wigwam circle at Milyahu, perfectly preserved except that
a rock or two has rolled inside. These circles were easy to trace and will
throw much light on the average size of the California Indian jacal.
NOS 1 SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1925 Ae UT

shows a typical wigwam circle on top of Milyahu. The Milyahu
cemetery has unfortunately been washed away by the arroyo.

On a hill on the Santa Maria ranch, Mr. Harrington discovered
an Indian fortification wall (fig. 111) which is evidently in much
the same condition as when it was abandoned. The rocks have
been piled to form a parapet five feet or more in height, the wall
forming a corral around the top of the hill. It was used for outlook
purposes.

Fic. 111.—Old Indian fortification works on the crest of the hill west of
the Santa Maria ranch house. The wall of piled up rocks forms a parapet
around the top of the hill, and was used as a lookout by the ancient Indian
inhabitants.

Besides obtaining many unique traditional songs, Mr. Harring-
ton devoted special attention to pictographs, both photographing
them and tracing them off full size on thin paper, so that they can
be reproduced in their natural colors.

STUDIES OF THE FOX AND OJIBWA INDIANS

Dr. Truman Michelson, ethnologist, Bureau of American Eth-
nology, left Washington about the middle of June, 1925, to renew
his researches among the Fox Indians near Tama, Iowa. There he
verified a number of texts previously obtained on various cere-
monials; he also procured additional information on several sacred
112 SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VOL. 78

packs, as that of Pyatwaya, belonging to the Thunder gens, and
that called ke‘tcimitcam"” in Tepashit’s care belonging to the
Thunder gens; and the one called Sagima ‘kwawa, which belongs to
the Bear gens, formerly in the possession of Pushitonequa, the last
recognized chief of the Foxes. He obtained also much information
on two other sacred packs, one belonging to the Thunder gens,
the other to the Bear gens, the existence of which were hitherto
unknown. The information on all these packs was obtained mainly

Pic) Wie Da lo tti wa, a Fox woman,
gathering flags to make mats. (Photo-
graph by Grace Scott.)

in the current Fox syllabary and English paraphrases secured from
Horace Poweshiek and Harry Lincoln. During his visit, a Winne-
bago enrolled among the Foxes was injured in an automobile acci-
dent, and Dr. Michelson had the rare opportunity of witnessing
a sweat-lodge performance and listening to the Winnebago prayers
and songs accompanying it.

Dr. Michelson proceeded on August 21 to Odanah, Wisconsin, to
obtain some first-hand information on Ojibwa gentes. The follow-
INOS I SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1925 pI

ing live at or near Odanah: Marten, Loon, Eagle, Bull Head, Bear,
Sturgeon, Great Lynx, Crane, Lynx, and Chicken. The chief be-
longs to the Loon gens; a “ head-man” to the Bear gens; and the
messenger to the Marten gens. In sharp contrast with the Toxes,
the gentes apparently have no special rituals. Exogamy is still prac-
ticed for the most part. It may be noted that cross-cousins as well
as parallel cousins are not allowed to marry. It should be stated
that, as with the Menomini, the offspring of a white man and an
Ojibwa woman belongs to the Chicken gens. Although almost
all of the Ojibwa at Odanah are Christians, Dr. Michelson found

Fic. 113.—Some birch-bark dwellings of the Ojibwa. From a_ postal
card purchased at Ashland, Wisconsin. The scene obviously is at the
pageant held at Apostles’ Islands.

that they have a vivid recollection of their ancient religious rites,
and he obtained detailed information on some of these. On Sep-
tember 2, Dr. Michelson proceeded to the vicinity of L’Anse, Michi-
gan, where he located a family of Stockbridge Indians, but none
spoke their own language. He observed that the Ojibwa dialects
spoken at Odanah and in the vicinity of L’Anse differs markedly
in some respects from the western dialects, to judge from Jones’
Ojibwa Texts. On September 12, Dr. Michelson went to Mt.
Pleasant, Michigan, where he began a preliminary survey of the
Ojibwa, Ottawa, and Potawatomi of the neighborhood.
114 SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VOL. 78

ETHNOLOGICAL RESEARCHES AMONG THE IROQUOIS AND
CHIPPEWA

Mr. J. N. B. Hewitt, ethnologist, Bureau of American Ethnology,
left Washington in May, 1925, for field duty and resumed _ his
studies among the Six Iroquois Nations or Tribes, namely, the
Mohawk, Seneca, Onondaga, Oneida, Cayuga, and the Tuscarora,
all dwelling on the Haldimand Grant on the Grand River in Ontario,
Canada.

In previous years Mr. Hewitt had recorded with great care from
the dictation of the most intelligent living statesmen, ritualists, and
counsellors, voluminous texts relating to the complex institutions
of the League. Because the war of the American Revolution had
badly disrupted the tribes of the League and the League itself,
Mr. Hewitt inevitably encountered variant versions of many por-
tions of the traditions, rituals, chants, and addresses relating to the
organization, constitution, ordinances, and regulations of the League,
and recorded these variant versions. In the furtherance of this
task, Mr. Hewitt again took up the literary study, interpretation,
and translation of the texts embodying the laws, ordinances, and
the regulations, the chants and the rituals of condolence for the
dead rotiyaner and kontiyaner (the native name of the federal coun-
sellors), and the installation of the rotiyaner and the kojitiyaner
(elect) (who constituted the councils of the tribe and of the League,
in addition to the chiefs). The first is the masculine, and the second
the feminine, form of the noun.

The organic institutions of the League of the Iroquois for over
one hundred and fifty years have been subject to the action of
various destructive external and internal forces, and so it is that
many of the most distinctive institutions of the League have long
been inoperative through the failure of the leaders to execute them.

The Governor General in Council by an Order in Council on
September 17, 1924, abrogated the organic institutions of the Cana-
dian part of the League. This crisis in the affairs of these tribes
arose because the government of the League of the Iroquois had
become such a travesty of the complex institution established by
the great prophet-statesman, Deganawida, and his astute collabora-
tors, that it failed to function organically.

By the aid of Mohawk informants, Mr. Hewitt was enabled to
resolve the lexical and the grammatic difficulties of the Mohawk
texts of certain important rituals of the Council of Condolence
for deceased rotiyaner and the installation of the rotiyaner elect
INKOZ LU SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1925 WT ISS

and to translate into free English speech one of these rituals and to
discover the reason for its most peculiar name, The title of this
ritual is Ka‘rhawe" hra'to" in Mohawk, and Ga‘ hawe" ha’ di’ in

e

Onondaga, meaning “Cast or Thrown Over the Grand Forest.”
To jearn the cause of giving so peculiar a name is to learn one of
the processes of constructing rituals.

Legislative or ceremonial action is taken by the tribe only through
the orderly cooperation of the two constitutive Sisterhoods of clans,
commonly called Phratries in early ethnologic writings. This dual-
ism in the highest units of organization was based originally on
definite mythic concepts. Briefly, the one Sisterhood of tribes sym-
bolized the Female Principle or Motherhood in Nature, and the
other, the Male Principle or Fatherhood in Nature.

The Sisterhood of tribes functioned by the independent action of
its constituent institutional units—every several tribe. In turn, every
tribe functioned through the units of its own internal organiza-
tion—each several clan, to execute its prescribed part in the larger
federal action, which otherwise could not be authentic and authori-
tative; so that a clan, or an individual in a clan, in special cases
involving personal rights, might prevent vital federal action. So
personal rights were abundantly safeguarded.

In addition to the chant called “Cast Over the Grand Forest ”
mentioned above, the most distinctive one of the Council of Con-
dolence and Installation of the League of the Iroquo's is that which
is designated as “The Seven Songs of Farewell.” This is in-
toned in behalf of the deceased member of the Federal Council
which, as a Council of Condolence and Installation, has met to
condole his death with his kinsmen and to install his successor.
These two chants are respectively divided into two portions. The
first six of the “Seven Songs of Farewell” are followed by the
first five paragraphs of the chant “ Cast Over the Grand Forest.”
A veil of skins divides the Mother from the Father Side during
the chanting of the “ Farewell Chant.”

By a searching study of all symbolic terms and phrases occurring
in the chants of these rituals, Mr. Hewitt was able to identify the
phrase, “the veil of skins” with the other phrase “the Grand
Forest.” The “Grand Forest’’ represents ritualistically the totality
of the forests which intervene between the lands of the Mourning
Side of the League and those of the other side. Mr. Hewitt also
made a free English translation of the chants, ‘ Cast Over the Grand
Forest,” and “ The Seven Songs of Farewell.’
116 SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VOL. 78

Mr. Hewitt made a reconnaissance trip te the Chippewa of
Garden River, Canada, for the purpose of expanding his knowledge
of certain Chippewa texts, recorded in 1921 by him from the
dictation of Mr. George Gabaoosa of Garden River, Canada, and
also to obtain data in regard to the derivation of two very important
proper names, namely, Chippewa and Nanabozho (appearing in
literature also as Nenabojo, Menaboju, and Wenaboju).

The name Chippewa is the generic designation of a historically
important group of Algonquian tribes of the northwestern United
States. Various unsatisfactory derivations have been given to it,
and it appears in literature with no less than 97 variant spellings.

For two years Mr. Hewitt has had in mind a definition of the
name Chippewa which brings out one of the distinctive arts of these
people, just as the Ottawa received their name of ‘ The Traders ”
because for the moment the business of trading was then ethnically
distinctive. To those who first gave the name Chippewa to
these people, picture-writing was their preeminent characteristic.
And the birch bark records of the Chippewa are sufficiently
prominent in their culture to be noteworthy. The stem of the term
may be found in the Chippewa expression, nind ojibiwa, meaning
“T mark, write, on some object.” The form ojibiwa used as an
appellative in the plural would become ojibweg, which used as an
ethnic appellation signifies “those who make pictographs.” Mr.
George Gabaoosa, of Garden River, Canada, a most intelligent
Chippewa, collaborated in the derivation of this tribal name.

The present writer is not aware that any consistent meaning has
been given by any other student to the proper name Nanabozho
(Wenaboju, Menaboju, etc., being other spellings of it) of the
Algonquian biogenetic myth. Briefly, it is the Myth of Mudjikewis,
the First Born on Earth, commonly called The Story of Inabi‘’-
ojo’ (1.e., Nanabozho.) This story, which is remarkable for
beauty and comprehensiveness, relates that on the shore of the great
primal sea dwelt Misakamigokwe (7. e., The Entire Earth Mother)
and her Daughter. This Entire Earth Woman is the impersonation
of the inert earth, while the daughter is the life-increasing power
of the earth—the Life Mother—the Mother of all Living Things.
These two personages were of the super-race of the “ first people ”
who lived when the earth was yet new.

The Entire Earth Woman cautioned her daughter, saying,
Daughter, bend not yourself against the sun at noon-tide, be-
cause the Great Father Spirit at that time looks on you. Remember,

“ec
NO. I SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1925 T7

I command you, not to forget my words, for surely if you do, evil
will befall us; since our time to increase the number of living
things on the earth on which we live, is not yet fully come.”

But there came an evil day when, very busy with her mat-making,
and with her back unconsciously turned sunward at noon-tide, she
dropped her mat-gauge on the ground and unwittingly stooped
forward to pick it up. Instantly, she was seized with exhausting
pains after the manner of women.

So, in due time, the daughter gave birth to a son, whom she
named Inabi‘’oji‘o* (1. e., Formed, Created, by a Look). She con-
tinued bearing offspring until four other sons were born to her—
all brothers of Inabi‘oji‘o‘. In order of their birth these brothers
were named Ningabeon (The West), Kiwedinese (The North),
Wabanese (The East), and Shawanese (The South). After this
time Misakamigokwe became Nokomis, the grandmother of all living
things.

In this highly condensed and abbreviated recital of the common
Algonquian myth of the Beginnings is given the key to the literal
signification of the name Nanabozho (Wenabozho, etc.), or Inabi‘’-
ojto*. This name is based on the common Algonquian verb w @ b,
“to see, to look,’ which with associated elements, expressed and
understood, gives the literal meaning “created, conceived, made,
through the look, the gaze (of the Great Father Spirit).

ETHNOLOGICAL WORK AMONG THE OSAGE OF OKLAHOMA

In May, 1925, Mr. Francis La Flesche, ethnologist, of the Bureau
of American Ethnology, visited the Osage Reservation, Oklahoma,
to continue his work among the Indians of that reservation. He
was met at Nelogany station by his friend, Ku-zhi-si-e, in his big
automobile and driven to his house in the Indian village about a
mile from the town of Pawhuska.

The afternoon was passed by Mr. La Flesche and Ku-zhi-si-e
in planning the work they were to do together. They agreed to do
first that part which promised to be the most laborious, that of
recording and classifying the personal names of the members of the
tribe according to gentes and sub-gentes, and of giving where pos-
sible, the meaning of each name. To avoid confusion in the per-
formance of the work, Ku-zhi-si-e suggested the use of the early
annuity pay rolls which contained the names of every man, woman,

and child.
9
118 SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VOL. 78

Early the following morning, Mr. La Flesche and his assistant
appeared before Superintendent J. George Wright of the Agency
and made known to him the purpose of their visit. The Superin-
tendent immediately put one of his clerks to work to find the
record wanted. The clerk found a roll for the year 1877, which he
placed in Mr. La Flesche’s hands. Then he and his friend sped
back to the little cottage where they began this work.

Fie. 114.—1, Conetlower, life emblem of the Peacemaker gens. 2, Haircut

of the children of that gens to resemble the flower.

The two put about three weeks of steady work on the revision of
the roll. The spelling of nearly all of the 1991 names found on
the roll had to be corrected, and to the name of each annuitant was
added the name of the gens to which he or she belonged, as, for
example, Ku-zhi-si-e, Wa-tse-tsi gens, They Who Came from the
Stars.

When the work on the gentile personal names of the members of
the tribe was completed, Mr. La Flesche and Ku-zhi-si-e took up the
NO. I SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1925 119

task of recording the names of the wild plants known to the Osage
and their uses where they could be ascertained. This was out-door
work and more agreeable than the other. One day as the two were
driving over the hills, Ku-zhi-si-e called to his driver to stop. He
pointed to a patch of yellow flowers which he said were called
“ba-shta,” hair-cut (Cone-Flower). This was the flower chosen
by the people of the Peacemaker gens to be their life and peace
emblem. The hair of the children of this gens was cut to resemble
the sacred flower as the sign of a petition to the Power that brought
it into existence, to grant the little one a long and fruitful life
(see fig. 114). They drove on to a small-wooded stream where there
were many aquatic plants. The ci” (Sagittaria latifolia), Ku-zhi-si-e
pointed out as a food plant; the Mi-ke-the (cattail), the leaves of
which he said were used to thatch houses as well as for medicine ;
the ca-shi"-ga, rush, (Eleocharis interstincta), which was used for
making mats to sit upon in the house, and for making the inner
shrine of the sacred hawk. As the two drove along the border of
a small lake, Ku-zhi-si-e also pointed out the tse’wa-the (water
chinkapin), as a food plant.

On the last day of the exploration, the two drove to the top
of a high hill where they stopped and got out of the car, After
a moment’s silence, Ku-zhi-size gave a wide sweep of his right
arm and said, “ All the grasses, weeds, shrubs, and trees that we
see around us as far as the eye can reach, are medicine, but we
know the qualities of only a few. Some plants like the ¢ta-in-ga-hi
(persimmon tree) serve as medicine and food. There is life in
all plants and all are active. There are medicines for horses as
well as for human beings.”

STUDIES OF INDIAN MUSIC AMONG THE MENOMINI OF
WISCONSIN

In July and August, 1925, Miss Frances Densmore, collaborator
of the Bureau of American Ethnology, recorded the songs and
studied the musical customs of the Menemini Indians in Wisconsin.
Three classes of songs recorded among the Menomini have not been
found in other tribes. These are the songs connected with games
played as a “dream obligation,’ the songs of “adoption dances,”
and the songs connected with the use of packs or bundles, by in-
dividuals, for the purpose of securing success on the hunt or war
path.
SMITHSONIAN

MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VOL. 7

Fic. 115.—James Pigeon-hawk. (Photograph by Miss Densmore. )
NO.

SMITHSONIAN

EXPLORATIONS,

1925

(Photograph by

ensmore. )

Miss D

Fic. 117.—Agnes Sullivan.

a)

is. (Photograph

—
v
I
Ze
S=} tal
me
an
Oca
Os
Sv
ian
|
=
OM)
ow
=.
ns
—<)
a
i
a
ao
(eo)
a

WG, Ie).

EF
22 SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VOL. 78

The two games played in order to secure benefits promised in
dreams are the “ bowl and dice game,” played by women who have
dreamed of the “four spirit women in the east,’ and the lacrosse
game, played by men who have dreamed of the “ thunderers.”
The manner of playing the first game was demonstrated by Cath-
erine Laughery, whose dream requires that she play the game once
every summer. She also recorded the song given her by the spirit
women when, in her dream, she visited their lodge. A lacrosse
game was thus played at a gathering attended by Miss Densmore.
It is believed that a sick person will be benefited by attending a
lacrosse game played in a ceremonial manner, and a song used on
such an occasion was recorded by James Pigeon-Hawk (fig. 115).
An adoption dance is held when a family wishes to adopt someone
in place of a member of the family who has died. Two sets ot
songs are used at these dances, one attributed to the east and the
other to the south god. The family select the songs to be used, the
songs from the east god being chosen if the adoption is to be an
important, dignified occasion. These are the more highly regarded
as the east god is supposed to be the greater. Songs of both sorts
were recorded, together with a description of the ceremonial action
attending the adoption.

The individual war and hunting packs of the Menomini consist
of certain articles wrapped in tanned hide. Under certain condi-
tions the owner opens the pack in a ceremonial manner and ex-
poses the contents, singing certain songs. A description of the
bundles and manner of their use was obtained, together with the
songs which are sung to make them effective.

The songs of the Dream dance formed a subject of special study,
as Miss Densmore had attended this dance when held by the Chip-
pewa and Menomini in 1910. (See Bull. 53, Bur. Amer. Ethn.,
pp. 142-180.) A few songs were sung by both tribes at certain
points in the ceremony, and a comparison of the two renditions was
desired. The “ Pipe song’’ showed the same rhythmic phrase in
the two renditions, and a somewhat similar duplication was found
in the ‘“‘ Drum song.”’ Thirty-three Menomini songs of the Dream
dance were recorded, and the place where the dance is held was
visited and photographed.

Songs used in the treatment of the sick were, as usual, an im-
portant phase of the research. Among those recording such songs
was James Pigeon-Hawk, who, in treating the sick, uses songs which
he received from his uncle and grandfather, One of these songs
bo
S)

NO. I SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1925 I

is sung when digging medicinal roots in order to make them effec-
tive. The Menomini differ from the Chippewa and Sioux in that
they employ a “ diagnostician’’ who decides whether a sick person
shall be treated by a doctor giving material remedies or shall be
taken to an exhibition of magic power by a “ juggler.’’ A descrip-
tion of the performances of the latter, with several of their songs,
was obtained from a man familiar with their practices.

War songs received attention, about 25 of this class being re-
corded. Several war songs were connected with the Black Hawk
war, which took place about 1832, while others were connected
with the enlistment and service of Menomini Indians in the Civil

War. John Shawunopinas (fig. 116) is a member of the G. A. R.

Fic. 118—Exterior of medicine lodge.

and recorded a song with the words “ The white man points his
pipe at me,” meaning ‘“‘ The white man asks me to join him in war.”
Agnes Sullivan recorded five old, vigorous war songs and asked
to be photographed wearing her badge as a member of the Auxili-
ary to the American Legion. Among the miscellaneous songs ob-
tained were those of the moccasin game, several social dances, the
legends of Manabus, and the lullaby sung to little children, the
latter being a variant of the Chippewa lullaby. Four melodies
played on a cedar flute were recorded.

The Menomini Medicine Society, corresponding to the Chippewa
Mide’ wiwin, held a meeting in July which was attended by Miss
Densmore. This was an interesting opportunity, as the society
meets only once or twice a year to initiate members, and was par-
ticularly valuable, as Miss Densmore had recorded the songs of the
124 SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VOL. 78

Fic. 119.—Interior of medicine lodge.

Fic. 120.—Women sitting in medicine lodge, their medicine bags hanging
on the framework behind them.
NO. I SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1925 eZ

qn

Mide’wiwin. Remaining at the Menomini ceremony about four
hours she found that the songs used were chiefiy Chippewa songs,
with words in that language. She witnessed the “ shooting with
spirit power,” in which members of the society thrust their medicine
bags toward others with deep ejaculations. These persons “ become
unconscious” for a time and the performance is continued until
all the members have thus “ received spirit power.’ The meeting
was held in a long lodge (fig. 118), and the members sat on the
ground or danced in a line around the lodge, the songs being ac-
companied by a “ water drum” and three gourd rattles (fig. 119).
At the right of this illustration may be seen the top of the “ water
drum;” the dancers, including a little child; and the gifts for the
leaders which are hung from a horizontal pole. The man near the
drum is carrying his medicine bag, probably made of weasel skin.
Many medicine bags were made of otter and were elaborately
decorated, the material indicating the owner's rank in the society
(fig. 120).

Continuing her study of Chippewa customs, especially those cou-
nected with the treatment of the sick, Miss Densmore visited the
Cass Lake and Mille Lac reservations in Minnesota, in June, 1925,
obtaining additional specimens of medicinal plants with descriptions
of their uses. At Mille Lac she witnessed the making of two na-
tive dwellings of bark and rushes, and took photographs at various
stages of the construction. Specimens of native implements made
of wood were also obtained.

INVESTIGATION OF SHELL AND SAND MOUNDS ON PINELLAS
PENINSULA, FLORIDA

Mr. David I. Bushnell, Jr., collaborator of the Bureau of American
Ethnology, while on the west coast of Florida during the present
year, visited various shell and sand mounds on Pinellas Peninsula.
The peninsula extends southward into Tampa Bay and is of irregu-
lar form. On the northeast it is bounded by Old Tampa Bay, on
the southeast and south by Tampa Bay, and on the west by Boca
Ciega Bay, the latter being separated from the Gulf of Mexico
by low, sand keys. Part of the peninsula is quite low and the en-
tire region is infested with mosquitoes and other insects in vast
quantities. Much of the shore is bordered by a broad stretch of
marsh, with a dense growth of semi-tropical vegetation, but some
of this marshy expanse has recently been reclaimed in the endeavor
to make it suitable for building sites.
126 SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VOL. 78

The shores of Tampa Bay—FEspiritu Santo Bay of earlier maps—
are interesting as having been the landing place of DeSoto and his
numerous party in the year 1539, when “On Friday the 3oth of
May they landed in Florida, two leagues from a towne of an
Indian lord, called Ucita.” Unfortunately, the exact position of
this ancient settlement is not known, but from the manner in
which it was approached from the Gulf, as told in the Spanish
narratives, it must have stood near the deeper channel which is
found on the east and south sides of Tampa Bay, away from Pinel-
las Peninsula.

Fic. 121.—Large mound, formed of shells and sand, standing about midway
between Maximo Point and Point Pinelos. The graded way, or approach
to the summit, is on the left. Camera pointed northeast.

Three classes of works can be distinguished on the peninsula, all
of which were erected near the shore. First are the large mounds,
of a definite form, composed of shells and sand; second are the
sand mounds; and third are the shellheaps, of no clearly defined
shape, which resulted from the extensive use of shellfish for food.

Nearly a half century has passed since these mounds were visited
by S. T. Walker, of Clearwater, Florida, at that time connected
with the U. S. Fish Commission, and by whom they were briefly
described in the Report of the Smithsonian Institution for the year
1879. The most important work is in the extreme southern part
NO. I SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1925 127

of the region, about midway between Maximo Point on the west
and Point Pinelos a little south of east. It stands about four
hundred yards from the water and the greater part of the intervening
area is a marsh with a thick, matted growth of low vegetation. This
mound, viewed from the southwest, is shown in figure 121. It was
visited by Walker in 1879 who referred to it as “the most beauti-
ful mound that I have seen in South Florida.” And he continued,
“The mound is situated in a ‘rosemary scrub,’ and rises to an
imposing height above the low trees in its vicinity. Its outlines are
beautifully regular . . . . with a beautiful inclined roadway leading
up to its western side.” During past years excavations have been
made in the structure by persons seeking hidden treasure, and con-
sequently the surface is now quite irregular but it is possible to
follow the original lines. The mound is about two hundred feet
in length and twenty feet in height. It is composed of shells and
sand, and the following shells were collected from the several ex-
cavations: Fasciolaria tulipa; Macrocallista gigantea; Busycon cana-
liculata; Pecten irradians; Strombus pugilis; Venus mercenaria mor-
toni; Fulgur perversa.. No fragments of pottery were discovered
although known to occur in the mound.

A symmetrical mound stands near the shore of Big Bayou, some
two and one half miles east of north of the work just described.
It appears to be formed entirely of sand, is a hundred feet or more
in diameter and rises about ten feet above the original surface. It
is owned by Mr. Glen Taylor, to whom I am indebted for much
assistance during visits made to the scattered sites on the peninsula.
About four hundred yards northeast of this mound were two large
shell mounds, now destroyed. They are said to have been formed for
the greater part of large oyster shells, and fragmentary pottery was
found throughout the mass. When the site was examined large
shells of the Ostrea virginica were discovered, some being seven
inches in length. These were in the lowest and consequently oldest
part of the mound or mounds.

Next to be considered are works on the west side of the penin-
sula, south of the railroad bridge across Four Mile Bayou. On
the shore, opposite the mouth of the bayou, is an extensive shell-
heap, part of which is shown in figure 122, a view looking southwest,
over the waters of Boca Ciega Bay to the low keys beyond. About
one thousand feet inland from the shellheap is a large shell and

* All shells have been identified by Dr. Paul Bartsch, of the U. S. National
Museum.
Fic. 122.—Shellheap on the west side of the peninsula at the mouth of
Long or Four Mile Bayou. The view is looking southwest showing the
waters of Boca Ciega Bay.

Fic. 123—Compact mass of shells exposed near the summit of a large
mound standing about three hundred yards inland, east, from the mouth of
Four Mile Bayou.
NO. I SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1925 129

sand mound, quite similar in appearance to the great mound in the
southern part of the peninsula. A small part of the southern sec-
tion of the work has been removed and the upper portion, thus
exposed to view, is shown in figure 123. This reveals a compact mass
of shells, usually of small size. The shells collected from this ex-
posed portion of the mound were: Venus mercenaria mortom, Car-
dium robustum,; Fulgur perversa; Fasciolaria tulipa; Arca ponder-
oso; Ostrea virginica; Pecten irradians; Melongena corona; Chione
cancellata; Cardita floridana. Fragments of pottery were mingled
with the shells, all having stamped designs over the entire surface.
Many bits of human bones, indicating burials, were found near
the summit. One fragment of a human skull revealed traces of a
red pigment with which it had probably been covered.

Southward from the preceding site, at the end of the electric line
running to St. Petersburg, and on the shore of Boca Ciega Bay,
is a shellheap having a diameter of a hundred yards and an elevation
of approximately ten feet. It extends eastward from the edge
of the water to the road which has cut through the eastern portion,
exposing the interior of the mass as shown in figure 124. The shells
gathered here were: Fasciolaria gigantea; Fulgur perversa; Strom-
bus pugilis; Fasciolaria tulipa; Venus mercenaria mortoni; Pecten
radians; Ostrea virginica; Spicula similis; Cardium tisocardia.
A closer view of the mass of shells in this exposure is given in
figure 125. All fragments of pottery discovered mingled with the
shells and decomposed vegetal matter were smooth on both surfaces,
entirely undecorated.

On the eastern side of the peninsula, north of east from the several
mounds just mentioned, is another ancient site. It is near the nar-
rowest part of the bay, south of the bridge over Old Tampa Bay,
and exactly west of Port Tampa on the opposite shore. However,
the water is not visible from the site on account of the very dense
vegetation. Here are shellheaps, low and spreading and less clearly
defined than others already mentioned. They extend in a general
course from southeast to northwest and terminate abruptly at a
sand mound. The latter is about one hundred and twenty feet in
diameter, although it is difficult to distinguish where the artificial
work actually begins; its elevation is approximately seven feet.
This appears to have been the burial place which belonged to the
nearby settlement. Many burials were discovered by Dr. J. W.
Fewkes in the eastern part of this mound during the winter of
1923-1924, at which time about one quarter of the structure was
examined. Fragments of pottery, decorated with designs in incised
130 SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VOL. 78

Fic. 124.—Section of a spreading shell mound in a region known as
“The jungle,” on the west side of Pinellas Peninsula, at the end of the
electric line running to St. Petersburg.

Fic. 125.—A closer view of the mass of shells forming the mound in
“The Jungle.”
NOD 1 SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1925 131

Fig. 126.—Fragment of a large pottery vessel from the burial mound on
Weeden Island. One-half natural size.

Itc. 127.—The probable form of the vessel, suggested by the shape of the
fragment. (Drawn by DeLancey Gill.)
12 SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VOL. 78

lines, were recovered from parts of the excavation, and although this
is considered typical of the west coast of Florida no examples were
found by the writer on other sites on the peninsula. In addition
Dr. Fewkes encountered many fragments bearing the usual stamped
design, and exactly like that recovered from the large mound on the
west side of the peninsula, but it was not determined conclusively
whether the two types were intermingled or whether they occurred
in two distinct layers one above the other. A careful examination
of the mound, especially the central portion, would undoubtedly
make it possible to discover which of the two forms of pottery

Ar tie owe a

Fic. 128.—The low, spreading burial mound on Weeden Island. The
large cabbage palmetto, to which the sign is attached, stands very near the
center of the mound.

is the older, if a difference actually exists. A photograph of the
mound is reproduced in figure 128. On the right is the end of the
excavation made by Dr. Fewkes, the large marker being attached
to a tree near the center of the work. A fragment of the rim of
a large earthen vessel, found by the writer in the excavation, is
shown in figure 126, and a sketch of the probable shape of the vessel
in figure 127. It was a well-made vessel, thin, and of a yellowish-
brown tint. The opening was about ten inches in diameter.

Other large mounds occur on other parts of the peninsula, and all
are of the greatest interest at this time. As yet it is not possible to
identify the tribe or tribes by whom the ancient settlements were
occupied.
SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS

VOLUME 78, NUMBER 7

EXPLORATIONS AND FIELD-WORK OF THE
SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION
IN 1926

(PUBLICATION 2912)

CITY OF WASHINGTON
PUBLISHED BY THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Mir 241927
SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS
VOLUME 78, NUMBER 7

EXPLORATIONS AND FIELD-WORKK OF THE
SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION
IN 1926

CRE

LS Gte Wy oe »)
C0? <p ANG “fie
<< 0. AT

(PUBLICATION 2912)

CITY OF WASHINGTON
PUBLISHED BY THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION
1927
The Lord Waftimore Press

BALTIMORE, MD,, U. S. A.
CONTENDS

PAGE

Hau OC TI ChTO Mm wa eter Rene eR ent Nicos Mir ey Mer cRN Vo Se Le MRA Rete I

eld Work in Astrophysics (Drs Charles G. Abbot). .«.s4.s20-e4 ee: I
Smithsonian-Chrysler Expedition to Africa to Collect Living Animals

GID Tega Vege A samy Tetra) ees ohne tei sucess once octet deed om Aalst eee EE 10
Visits to the Serpentine District of Southern England and the Gem-Cutting

Town of Oberstein, Germany (Dr. George P. Merrill).............. 21

Explorations for Microfossils in France and Germany (Dr. R. S. Bassler) 29
Geological Field-Work in the Rocky Mountains (Dr. Charles FE. Resser) 36
Geological Field-Work in New York and Ontario (Mr. Erwin R. Pohl).. 4o

Collecting Fossil Footprints in the Grand Canyon, Arizona (Mr. Charles

WY, Ghintore) ais es oy See eee Cn ea oe Pe PN ep nd en PPR ree te. 45
ammetephant Enint in) Florida (Dr. James W. Gidley).......2...:2s.+6- 48
Gollectine, Minerals) in Mexico (Dr W. FP. Hoshag))......7.0...5--5-.. 4. 51
The Canfield Mineralogical Collection (Mr. E. V. Shannon)............. 57
The Roebling Mineralogical Collection (Dr. W. F. Foshag)............ 58
Biological Collecting in Sumatra (Lieut. Henry C. Kellers).............. 59
Biological Field-Work in Florida (Dr. Gerrit S. Miller, Jr.)............ 67
Visit to a California Whaling Station (Mr. A. Brazier Howell).......... 71
Sseplorenicons ih Sheiae (Dye, lakiiredal WW, Sard) 4.46060 sao beoeoepocsaseccous 79
Breeding Experiments with Cerions (Dr. Paul Bartsch)................. 80
Study of the Crustaceans of South America (Dr. Waldo L. Schmitt)..... 89
Investigation of the Amphipoda of the Tortugas (Mr. Clarence R. Shoe-

imate Sate a Pa Be es cae a ce A I ON eee Da A 93
Batomolovical Mnipmtio Guatemala (Dr I. Mo Aldrich)\)...---+-55+-.0.0-- O04
Collecting and Rearing Fruit Flies in Panama (Mr. Chas. T. Greene)... 98

Exploring for Ferns in the Blue Mountains of Jamaica (Dr. William R.
AVIESS<ONTi}) Maral NER E RS TNL tn OR aye Ve Te AE even cins oS OER sp haavnk eek Aes op 100

Botanical Field-Work in Panama and Costa Rica (Mr. Paul C. Standley)... 111

Botanical Exploration in Northern Haiti (Mr. E. C. Leonard)........... 118
Archeological Survey of the Feng River Valley, Southern Shansi, China
(ID iP Crate i athe Sebseedsa bee 9 es Beenie ace cai ete Rea cliche nt Pe Fo a 123
Anthropological Work in Alaska (Dr. Ales Hrdlicka).................. 137
Archeological Investigations in Chaco Canyon, New Mexico (Mr. Neil M.
Alctrcd Cid) Meee aera cae epee ey eee am rc Me Ce VR ora Mp ee Se 158

Investigating Evidence of Early Man in Florida (Dr. James W. Gidley). 168

Archeological and Ethnological Studies in Southeast Alaska (Mr. H. W.
TEC SEIS EEE Ratan hi 8 cha tar startet Bak BRIM aR ECR REND, © Ir a REM ot a 174
IV CONTENTS

Archeological Investigations in the Columbia River Valley (Mr. H. W.

FRGIE RET.) oe ect sne wale So Bre hate alte gs chore pblnneto ty < SaUS oc ew nna See chee e 187
Archeological Work in Louisiana and Mississippi (Mr. Henry B. Collins, Jr.) 200
Archeological Field-Work in Arizona (Dr. J. Walter Fewkes)........... 207
Archeological and Ethnological Researches in California (Mr. J. P.

Darin eto) ie penis ccs < suavaccy ceewereeeiotevee cr aranstore bre eStats ou es ten sponta ter 232

Ethnological Studies Among the Iroquois Indians (Mr. J. N. B. Hewitt).. 237
Field Studies of Indian Music (Miss Frances Densmore)............... 247
Archeological Work in Louisiana (Mr. Gerard Fowke).................- 254
oy} Ul SI

ainjeisduid} o91s59p

000‘000‘T

‘YL OJUL po}oHoI St JYSUNs pue ‘jauun}

——— ——— sainseout YyoIyM Ja}IWO[OG sy J, “A1OJeAIOSqG Je]OS UleJUNOTW, sqe[—I ‘og

I

uae 5

OREN ih, Baie ethe + RE
ise ae ~ eo 8 Ks a ¢ é
: Ga ec we Ay

%
-
Ce

EXPLORATIONS AND FIELD-WORK OF THE
S MIlAEEISONEAN INSTITUTION IN; 1926

INTRODUCTION

Field-work is essential to the advance of nearly all branches of
science, particularly those which the Smithsonian Institution is at
present engaged in promoting, namely, geology, biology, anthropology.
and astrophysics. The Institution therefore embraces every opportu-
nity of putting expeditions in the field to obtain desired information or
collections, either under its own auspices through financial assistance
from its friends, or in cooperation with other agencies which will
benefit equally from the work. During the past year more expeditions,
in which the Smithsonian was represented, have gone out than ever
before, and this in spite of the fact that the Institution has practi-
cally no unrestricted funds for field-work. Had it the unfettered
income from an adequate endowment, much more extensive field-work
in accordance with a definite plan would be accomplished each year,
and the advance along the whole front of human knowledge would
be greatly accelerated. The Smithsonian holds in abeyance a number
of important projects in many branches of science, awaiting only
funds to finance them. These include researches, nearly all of
which involve work in the field, in astrophysics, meteorology, oceanog-
raphy, entomology, zoology, botany, geology, archeology and eth-
nology, physical anthropology, mathematics, and chemistry.

The present pamphlet is intended as a preliminary announcement of
the results of the year’s field-work. The accounts, although written in
the third person, were for the most part prepared by the participants in
the various expeditions, and the photographs taken by them.

PIL -WORK INGASTROPHYSICS

Does the sun vary, and if so, what effects on our weather do the
changes of solar heat produce? For eight years the field-work of the
Astrophysical Observatory has been aimed to solve this question.
With the generous aid of Mr. John A. Roebling, special observatories
were erected on desert mountains in Chile, Arizona, and California.

Daily reports of the condition of the sun are received from the
observers. who patiently carry on in these isolated deserts far from

SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS, VOL. 78, No. 7
2 SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VOL. 78

society, provisions, and even (at Mount Montezuma, Chile) from
water.

Since January, 1926, these reports have been printed by the United
States Weather Bureau on its daily weather map. Those who have
followed them will have noticed that many days are missing and
many rated unsatisfactory. It was to round out these records that
the National Geographic Society on March 20, 1925, allotted $55,000
to Dr. C. G. Abbot, Assistant Secretary of the Smithsonian Insti-

Fic. 2—Mt. Brukkaros. Looking towards the Observatory site near the top of
the rim at the extreme right.

tution, and Director of its Astrophysical Observatory, to enable him
to select the best site in the Eastern Hemisphere, erect and equip
there a solar radiation observatory and maintain it for several years
under the title “ The National Geographic Society Solar-Radiation
Expedition Cooperating with the Smithsonian Institution.”

Accordingly, accompanied by Mrs. Abbot, he sailed from New
York on October 31, 1925, examined the advantages of sites in
Algeria, Egypt, Baluchistan, and South West Africa, and at length
located the new observatory on Mount Brukkaros, South West
Africa.
NO. 7 SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1926 3

The mountain is 5,200 feet above sea-level and quite 2,000 feet
above the plateau. The whole massif is composed of chocolate-colored
rock with very little soil, though sparsely tufted with bunches of dry
bush and grass, with here and there a queer cactus or dwarf tree.
The cliffs are seamed into great cubes and the slopes are littered
with fallen fragments.

The summit is like a cup with a flat bottom about half a mile
in diameter and a steep rim 1,000 feet high. From a V-shaped

Fic. 3.—The precipice at Mt. Brukkaros leading up to the bottom of the cup.
The water pools are just below the precipice.

break in the southeast side of the rim a precipice 60 feet high leaps
to the bed of the dry stream, which leads down a 3-mile corridor
to the plateau.

Since the observations require the use of the bolometer, that
electrical thermometer sensitive to a millionth of a degree, they
require very constant temperature surroundings. These are most
easily obtained by making a horizontal shaft or cave, some 30 feet
deep, right into the slope of the mountain near its summit.

The average yearly rainfall is 3$ inches. Dr. Abbot was 12
days in the vicinity during March, which, equally with February, is
4 SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VOL. 78

Fic, 4.—Observatory at Mt. Brukkaros.

Fic. 5.—Observer’s quarters at Mt. Brukkaros.
NO. 7 SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1926 5

the rainiest time of the year. On 11 days there were fine observing
conditions each forenoon, though a bit of rain fell sometimes towards
nightfall. That is surely a favorable record. There were absolutely
no cirrus clouds—those wisps that slightly veil the sun and are fatal
to our observing. There was very little wind—almost none in the
forenoons—though in winter it sometimes blows hard.

Mount Brukkaros lies in a Hottentot reservation, and a vote of
the tribe was necessary to permit us to locate there. This was

Fic. 6 —Hottentot village near Mt. Brukkaros, South West Africa, which will
be the headquarters of the expedition.

easily carried. Lying about 20 miles to the west of the railroad and
250 miles south of Windhoek, capital of South West Africa, Mount
Brukkaros sticks out as the only peak of consequence in a circle at
least 50 miles in diameter.

Thus the observers are exiled to a crater in the wilderness seven
miles even from Hottentot neighbors (at Berseba) and 60 miles
from a fair-sized town (Keetmanshoop). We hope their loneliness
will be mitigated by the facts that they are both fine fellows, inured
to camp life; that they will have interesting work; that there will
be games, music, books, and radio to beguile leisure hours; and
that the leopards and other wild game, so plentiful in the vicinity,
6 SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VOL. 78

will divert them. Perhaps they will raise a garden on the level
bottom of the cup, if they can arrange for enough water.

The water supply is not so great a difficulty as it seems. By
making a reservoir in the gulch in front of the observatory, the
drainage of several square miles may be impounded. Even the few
inches of yearly rainfall thus conserved will be abundantly sufficient.

For provisions and mail the observers must arrange with the
Hottentots. With their own automobile, our men will make the

ERWOOD & UNDERWOOD, IN

Itc. 7—A Hottentot cattle-team near Mt. Brukkaros of the type which will
be used to haul the expedition’s instruments and supplies.

6o-mile trip to Keetmanshoop frequently, where nearly everything
needed can be obtained.

By permission of the Government of South West Africa, Mr.
Dryden, of Keetmanshoop, Inspector of Public Works, constructed
the observatory and approaches on Mount Brukkaros, last summer.
Our expedition with its 60 boxes of delicate apparatus and supplies
reached Keetmanshoop in September and was hauled to the foot
of the mountain by two 12-ox teams in a 6-day journey. All the
apparatus and accessories were at the top by mid-October. Observa-
tions began in early November.
INOL 7, SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1926 Wf,

i’
ice

a

zs we

—<__|

Fic. 8—Selected pyrheliometry, solar constant and sun spot numbers
compared. Mt. Wilson work, Julys 1910 to 1920.

\

ria
Acer

S
y

ma.

\

Y,;
aide

ena

Ep Depa

Ah | al Ts

Percenta

a

VEN NA
Bree

=f

Solar Constant - ---- . Selected Fyrheliometry

. Sunspots

Fic. 9.—Montezuma observations, all months, 1920 to 1925.
8 SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VOL. 78

Fic. 10.-—Observer’s quarters at the solar station on Table Mountain.

ig ge oe

Fic. 11.—Looking toward the Mojave Desert from Table Mountain.
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1920 9

NO.

N

Fic. 12—Reading the weather instruments at Table Mountain.

Fic. 13.—Reducing the observations at Table Mountain.
Io SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VOL. 78

Returned from this expedition, Dr. Abbot, finding various critical
papers published during his absence tending to express the view that
solar variation is still doubtful, devised a new proof of it depending
on a simple inspection, on selected days, of the pyrheliometric meas-
urements of total solar radiation. By choosing for comparison only
days of equal atmospheric transparency and humidity, the uncer-
tainties which critics had stressed were largely eliminated. This new
treatment supported closely the more elaborate and continuous in-
dications of solar variation obtained by the complex process of
spectrum analysis.

In figures 8 and g the new and old work is compared for separate
months on Mount Wilson and Mount Montezuma, and the parallel
variation of sun-spot numbers is also shown.

Having found from this new study, as well as from previous work
at Mount Harqua Hala in Arizona, a source of error due to the
bright rays of sky light immediately about the sun for very hazy
days, an improvement of the silver disk pyrheliometer consisting of
a very long vestibule has been made, designed to greatly limit the
sky rays admitted to the field of view of the instrument.

In the frontispiece, figure 1, Field Director A. F. Moore is shown
observing with the improved instrument at the new solar station on
Table Mountain, California, built with the generous aid of Mr. John A.
Roebling, and first occupied in October, 1925.

SMITHSONIAN-CHRYSLER EXPEDITION TO AFRICA
TO COLLECT LIVING ANIMALS

The Smithsonian-Chrysler Expedition to collect living animals
for the National Zoological Park sailed from New York on March 20
and arrived in Dar-es-Salaam, Tanganyika Territory, East Africa,
on May 5. The expedition was financed by Mr. Walter P. Chrysler.
Tanganyika was chosen as being one of the best localities in which
to make a representative collection of the game animals of East
Africa.

The party consisted of four members: Dir. W. M. Mann, Director
of the Zoological Park and leader of the expedition; Mr. Stephen
Haweis, artist and amateur naturalist; Mr. F. G. Carnochan, of
New York City; and Mr. Arthur Loveridge, of the Museum of
Comparative Zoology at Cambridge. The latter, having previously re-
sided eight years at Tanganyika, some of which had been spent in
the Game Department there, was conversant with conditions in
the country, and in addition, had a good knowledge of Kiswahili
language. The Pathe Review sent with the party Mr. Charlton,
NO. 7 SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1920

eu

Fie. 14.—Unloading crates at Dodoma. These were made at the Zoo
and shipped taken down.

Fic. 15.—Wagogo natives at Dodoma.
I2 SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VOL. 78

one of their field men, to make a pictorial chronicle of the trip and the
work of the expedition.

The United States Marine Corps supplied the expedition with
cots, blankets, and certain other equipment, and the Freedmen’s Hos-
pital, of Washington, through the Chief Coordinator’s Office, fur-
nished the medicines.

At Tanga, the first port of callin Tanganyika, Mr. Fair, Assistant
Chief of the Game Department of Tanganyika, joined the boat, and
on the voyage between there and Dar-es-Salaam arranged a special
permit for collecting, which was afterward signed by the Governor
of the territory. There is in Tanganyika a well-organized department
for the conservation of game. There is a chief, C. T. M. Swynnerton,
and an assistant chief, several white rangers, and a considerable corps
of native guards or scouts. The latter are much in evidence, and even
in the remote parts of the territory would come into our camp, ask to
see our license, take its number and our names, and find out from
the natives with us just what we were doing. The very generous
license that the Governor gave us proved invaluable, as it gave per-
mission to capture specimens of practically all of the game in Tan-
ganyika and, when necessary, to kill females inorder to capture the
young. This is not often necessary, and on the entire trip we did not
take a single animal by the killing of the mother.

Headquarters were made at Dodoma, about 250 miles inland from
the coast. The country about there is hot and dry, rolling and
dotted with rocky kopjes, and reminds one strongly of parts of
southern Arizona. The natives belong to the Wagogo tribe, an off-
shoot from the Masai, and are a pastoral and agricultural people,
living on their flocks and herds and on the small amount of Kafir-
corn that they cultivate. Not being a hunting tribe, they brought
in to us very few large specimens but were very useful in collecting
small things. Weaver birds do a vast amount of damage to the
crops and the natives are in the habit of trapping these birds in
quantities in small woven basket traps. So instead of destroying
the birds, they brought them in to us, as well as anything else they
happened on, and in this way were obtained a ratel, a fennec, a
number of vervet monkeys, and a few reptiles. Mr. Loveridge and
Mr. Haweis stayed at Dodoma a good part of the time, but made
short trips out, and afterwards Mr. Haweis came down to Morogoro
and stayed a month at Mhonde, 60 miles from Morogoro. In this
locality we secured five blue monkeys, three golden baboons, and a
pair of elephant shrews.
NO. 7 SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1926 13

Mr. Carnochan worked in the Tabora district, where he lived
among the Manumwezi tribe, experts in snake catching, and_ his
division of the expedition succeeded in forming a considerable col-
lection of snakes, several interesting mammals, including a female
eland, and a rare caracal.

The party had been joined on the boat by a Mr. Lyman Hine, of
New York, an American sportsman, and he and Dr. Mann, accom-
panied by two white hunters, George Runton and Guy Runton, left
Dodoma by motor car and reached Umbugwe, about two hundred

Fic. 16.—Natives gathered for instruction on game drive.

miles to the north, where they made safari to Lake Manyara.
Mr. Hine was able to stay in the field only a month when he re-
turned, business calling him back to America. But Mr. George
Runton, a professional hunter and guide, stayed with the expedition
during its entire stay in Tanganyika and proved a most valuable addi-
tion to the party.

The Governor’s license proved important at Umbugwe, for it
enabled us to acquire go porters, men of the Wamboro and Wambugo
tribes. The latter have the reputation of being swift runners, which
they bear out from time to time by running down animals. The
first catch on the lake was a water mongoose, which was run down
on the lake shore and boxed.
14 SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VOL. 78

Fic. 17.—Our first zebra colt.

Fic. 18—Herd of white-bearded gnu.
NO. 7 SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1926 5

Fic. 20—White-bearded gnu calf.
16 SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VoL. 78

On Lake Manyara we captured the three white-bearded gnu which
we brought to Washington. As we marched along the shore of the
lake, the herds of gnu would run in front of us, back and forth
the whole day, and when evening came they were very tired and
attempted to cut back between us and the lake. Our porters dropped
their loads and headed them off. They got into the shallow lake
and mixed together. When the splashing had died down, little groups
of natives brought back the calves which they had seized. These
became tame very quickly, fed readily, and were thoroughly satisfac-
tory animals to catch and keep.

Mr. George Le Messurier joined the party to drive the motor
car which the Chrysler factory in London had presented to the
expedition. He kept the car busy between Umbugwe and Dodoma,
carrying in specimens as fast as we had a ton of them accumulated.
On the first trip, Dr. Mann accompanied the animals to Dodoma.
sending Mr. Runton on to the Masai Steppe to look for young rhinos.
We had been told that they were very abundant toward the Ngoro-
Ngoro crater. Dr. Mann returned to Umbugwe in a week, climbed
the escarpment to Umbulo, and started in the direction of the crater,
but on the evening of the first day met Mr. Runton and his party
coming down. In one week they had seen only four rhinos, no
young nor signs of young, and since Mando, our best native guide,
had told of a district, the Ja-aida swamp country, in which he
said there were “ Faro mingi sana’”’ (very many rhinos) we went
down into this region and found what he said to be true. Altogether
we saw 22 rhinos. Our safari was charged once while on the march,
and four times at night rhinos charged through our camp. But in
all of these we failed to locate a single young specimen. Five differ-
ent times we crawled into the scrub 30 or 4o feet from a rhino
to see if it had young and were disappointed each time. One locates
these rhinos, by the way, through the tick birds, which make a loud
twittering at the approach of any suspicious object to the rhino on
which they are clustered for the purpose of eating the ticks which
are so abundant on its body. Theoretically they serve a useful pur-
pose to the rhino by warning him of his enemies. Actually we found
they were useful in leading us to where the rhino were lying, for
we were attracted by the birds to each of the rhinos that we found.

The night charges are simply the result of the stupidity of the
rhino. We camped usually in the vicinity of water holes, and when
the near-sighted beast came to water late at night or early in the
morning he would suddenly notice that there were fires and natives
about. Whereupon he would put his head down and charge through
NO. 7 SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1926 17

in a straight line. On these occasions the natives have a frantic
desire to get into the tents to be near the white men and the guns;
the white men on the other hand have a frantic desire to get out
of their tents, and the result is a collision at the entrance. Two rhinos
came into our camp the same night. When the second one came,
Le Messurier heard it snort and the sound of its tramp, and just
then a native tripped over one of his tent ropes. He left the tent in
a hurry, but was met by twelve boys entering it at the same speed,

Fic. 21—A serval cub, one of our bottle babies.

and the result was that he was thrown and injured his knee so badly
on a tent peg that we had to rush him back to Dodoma for medical
attention. This, and the fact that we had spent 28 days without seeing
a single young rhinoceros, made us decide to split up the expedition
even more. So Messrs. Runton and Le Messurier stayed at Kondoa
Irangi, while Dr. Mann secured the services of an additional hunter,
Mr. C. B. Goss, and went down the railroad to Ngere-Ngere, and
from there southward into the Tula and Kisaki districts to begin
another search for rhino.

We saw, on the average, signs of five rhino each day, but again
neither young nor fresh tracks of young. So after 10 days, time being
SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VOL. 78

=
(oe)

short, we camped at Tula to collect whatever we could, but especially
giraffes. Two native sultans, Chanzi and Chaduma, joined forces
with us for a week, bringing with them about 500 natives. With
the help of these we had the most successful trip of the expedition.
Some of the boys from a mountain nearby had had some experience
in netting game. They make a coarse seine of native rope in sec-
tions about five feet high and 15 feet long. These were placed in
a row, until they made about 1,000 feet of native fence, one boy
hiding behind each section. The two lots of natives would double over
their ends and join in a circle about a mile in circumference, then
closing in toward the net. The object was to drive animals into

icw22:—Satanieatenests

the net, but nine times out of ten they would break through the
line. Occasionally, however, they came straight on. One day a
herd of over 50 impalla was surrounded. This is the most graceful
antelope in Africa and a great leaper. Most of them sailed right over
the net, but five fell short and we got them all. Fortune was with us
as far as impalla were concerned, for it is one of the most delicate
animals to handle, and yet all of ours reached Boston alive and in
good condition.

Wart-hogs were captured in the same way and a troop of four
were added to the collection.

Besides rhinoceros, giraffe was one of our important desiderata.
They were abundant about Tula but not easy to catch because we
had no horses. We tried time after time to run them into the nets,
but a herd of giraffe runs in a file led by the biggest bull, and he
NO.

SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1926 19

NI

Ce ted. oe

Fic. 23.—Hi-Boy, the male giraffe in crate.

Fic. 24.—Hi-Boy, the male giraffe in crate.
20 SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VOL. 78

apparently enjoyed kicking the nets into the air as high as possible;
whereupon they would all rush through and disappear in the scrub.
But once we succeeded in separating from the herd a calf about
eight and a half feet tall, and one of the natives grabbed it by the
tail, another by the neck, and threw it. We got it into camp, carrying
it on a native bed heaped high with grass, and put it in a room of
the Kafir native-built house in which we were staying. It became
quite tame in a short time, and fed readily on milk and mimosa
leaves. Dr. Mann rushed to Dar-es-Salaam and had a crate built for

Fic. 25.—Handling stock at Dar-es-Salaam.

it, which was delivered to Ngere-Ngere. The animal was taken in
a motor car from Tula, a distance of about 80 miles, and at last
arrived safely in Dar-es-Salaam, where its crate was placed beneath a
mimosa tree in the yard of the Government veterinarian. It was
then that we telegraphed the Smithsonian that we had captured the
giraffe. However, after 10 days, the animal was attacked by pneu-
monia and died very suddenly, leaving us with our homeward pas-
sage engaged on the last steamer to arrive in the States before cold
weather and without the main object of the trip attained. We cabled
the Sudan Government to see if they could let us have specimens and
received word that they could let us have a pair of young giraffe. So
all members of the expedition gathered with their respective cages
NO. 7 SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1926 21

in Dar-es-Salaam. For three days we maintained a menagerie visited
by everybody in the city and finally embarked on the Crewe Hall, which
took us to Colombo, where we transhipped on the City of Calcutta
for a direct run to Boston. We landed with about 1,700 live animals,
including the two giraffe (which were brought to us at Port Sudan
by Mr. Skandar Armenius, assistant game warden of the Sudan, who
brought also a shoebill stork), five impalla, a greater kudu, an eland,
a blue duiker, red duiker, three white-bearded gnu, four wart-hogs,
and quantities of birds, small mammals, and reptiles.

Fic. 26.— Aboard the steamship, Crewe Hall.

Visits Oy tHE SERPENTINE DISERICTL OF SOUDRERN
ENGLAND AND THE GEM-CUTTING TOWN OF
OBERSTEIN, GERMANY

Dr. George P. Merrill, head curator of geology in the National
Museum, availed himself of the opportunity offered by the Geologi-
cal Congress in Madrid to visit some of the more important museums
of England and on the continent, and also to visit sundry localities
of geological and mineralogical interest. Among the more important,
mention may be made of a visit to the historical quicksilver mines at
Almaden, Spain. The party from the Congress was permitted to
descend to the 280 meter level, where a fine massive body of ore
(cinnabar) was exposed, embedded in quartzite. A series of typical
22 SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VOL. 78

specimens was collected and forwarded to the National Museum
through the office of the United States Consul. At the close of the
Congress a party was formed, of which Dr. Merrill was a member,
visiting Barcelona, with side trips to the eminence Tibidabo and the
monastery on Mount Serrat, and thence going to the Island of
Majorka, one of the Balearic group. Here, from June 5 to 13, inclu-
sive, a series of automobile trips took the party well over the Island,
visiting many interesting points and examining in detail the evidence
of overthrust faulting and folding which abounds. Later in the
season, trips were made to the serpentine and tin mining districts

x

pia one ail i sulle

Fic. 27—Kynance. The rocks are of the historic Lizard Serpentine.

of southern England and the noted gem-cutting town of Oberstein
in Germany. A brief account of these two trips is given below.

THE LIZARD SERPENTINES

In the early literature relating to petrographic research are to
be found many references to the serpentinous rocks of Cornwall
in southern England, and their problematic origin. Concerning this
last, it was long ago decided that they were the result of the combined
forces of igneous intrusion and subsequent metamorphism. It is
with the rocks as they are today that this note has to deal; the
exact locality is Kynance, near Lizard Point and but a few miles
west of England’s “‘ jumping off ” place, or Land’s End. It is a most
fascinating place on a fair, warm day in July. The country is
NOR 7, SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1926 23

rough and the shore often precipitous. The rock where exposed to
the action of the waves and windblown sand assumes an almost
ebony-like hue and polish, but on close inspection it is found to be
often filled with small streaks and gashes of a blood-red color. Broken
fragments on the beach have given rise to a diversified series of
oval pebbles of green, gray, purplish and red colors from which it is
a delight to assort and select those which are most beautiful. Below
the zone of pebbles the beach is of fine, clean sand over which the
warm waters of the cove seeth with seductive softness, making it
a bathers’ paradise. As bathers are out in force one looks for bath

Fic. 28.—Pendeen. A glimpse of an old tin mining region in Cornwall.

houses, but not one of these ugly conveniences disfigures the land-
scape. A brief investigation reveals the fact that the numerous
caves worn by the sea in the shattered serpentine are made toc answer,
and in their shallow and not very dim recesses may be seen groups
of men and maids making the slight changes in raiment considered
appropriate to the occasion. There is a primitive simplicity about it
that is very pleasing, though it might have been a trifle shocking to
a modest man had he witnessed it before his eyes had become
accustomed to the scanty costumes of the present day.

Naturally the beauty of the stone, when polished, long ago attracted
the artist and the artisan, and attempts were made to utilize it as
a marble for interior decoration. The attempt failed for the same
24 SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VOL. 78

reason that has brought disaster to a large proportion of like attempts
elsewhere, namely, the badly jointed condition of the stone—its dry
seams and like defects that prevent the getting out of pieces of
more than moderate dimensions. Nevertheless, in the museums and
art galleries are frequently to be found turned bowls, vases, urns,
and stands for busts, of good design and color, the work of these
earlier years. A very considerable souvenir industry still exists.
To be counted by the score are the little shops in Kynance, Penzance
and elsewhere where the natives work up small pieces into objects
more or less—usually less—artistic, but always interesting for the
variegated veining and for their colors. One can but regret that an
arrangement cannot be made whereby with larger means better work
could be done.

For the tourist, the approach to Kynance is by bus from Penzance,
a delightful little town, ancient but now becoming popular, though
one may hope not fashionable.

A few miles eastward are the historic tin workings of Cornwall
now largely discontinued owing to the increasing depth and low
gerade of the ores. The country is at best bleak, and the miles of
stone-walled abandoned pits and ruined shaft-houses, often with
little more than chimney standing, add to its picturesqueness but not
to its beauty.

GEM CUTTING IN OBERSTEIN-IDAR, GERMANY

The towns of the Nahe Valley are not large. Indeed, there is not
room in the narrow valley for large towns, and whatever attempts
are made to attain greater dimensions must end only in increase in
length. Doubtless the little stream has done and is doing its best,
but geological processes are slow. The work that has thus far been
accomplished is more in the way of depth than breadth. So narrow is
the resultant valley that there is, for the most part, space for but a
single street, along which the houses are jammed back against the
solid ledges of rock which rise abruptly behind them.

The geological history of the region is interesting, and inasmuch
as it is this that has given the towns their industry and importance,
it may be briefly touched upon.

Very many years ago, so long ago that it can be approximated only
in the rough divisions of geological time, there occurred here an
enormous outbreak of volcanic activity. Huge steaming masses of
lava flowed out over the region and in time became consolidated into
the solid rock now forming the high hills on either side and down
NO. 7 SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1926 25

through which the patiently persistent Nahe has cut its way. But
the upper portion of the consolidated mass was full of steam cavities,
large and small, like those in a well-raised loaf of bread. Into these
the heated waters carried silica in solution and formed agates. In turn,
as the rock decayed and the stream cut deeper, these agates being
less destructible, accumulated in the soil and ravines, to be collected
doubtless at first as mere curiosities. Interest in their banded struc-
ture was probably aroused from broken fragments which led to
laborious grinding of flat surfaces on sharp-gritted sandstones. Later
yet they were ground by holding them against huge revolving grind-

Fic. 29.—Grinding agates. Oberstein—Idar.

stones driven by slow-turning undershot water-wheels, the operator
lying prone upon a roughly carved wooden form moulded to his chest
and abdomen, and with feet braced against a wooden cleat nailed
to the floor. This crude system is still followed in many of the
smaller shops, but is laborious and unhealthy, the confined position
of the lungs and constant dampness from the cold, wet wheel being
productive of rheumatism and pulmonary troubles. In all the many
“ Schleiferei ’’—shops devoted to gem cutting, and there are some
hundreds in the region—the slicing is now done on circular saws of
thin metal charged with diamond dust, and the grinding on metal
plates revolving horizontally, at which the workmen sit in comfort.

Exhaustion of the local supply it may be safely assumed resulted
in the reaching out into world-wide sources for new materials, and
SMITHSONIAN

MISCELLANEOUS

COLLECTIONS

VOL. 78

Fic. 31.—Oberstein. A stone engraver.

h diamond saw.

icing gems wit

Fic. 30.—Oberstein. Sl]
NO. 7 SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1926 27

a contemporaneous development) in the art of cutting as well. Agates,
amethysts, and topazes from Brazil, kunzite from California or
Madagascar, beryls including aquamarines, golden beryls and mor-
ganite from Madagascar and America, peridot from Oriental
sources ; amazon stone and rose quartz from America, are among
the many varieties.

Fic. 32.—Grinding facets on gem stone.

Aside from the facetted forms, beads, pendants, etc., used in
jewelry, a variety of ornamental bowls, trays, vases, paper knives,
some of which are very beautiful, are cut from the agates, rose
quartz, lapislazuli and other of the so-called semi-precious stones,
many of which find their way into museums and mineral collections
where they are highly prized. A visit to the little local museum is
needed to convey a full idea of the variety and beauty of the work
now carried on behind the walls of the unimpressive buildings with

3
VOL. 78

COLLECTIONS

LLANEOUS

MISCI

SMITHSONIAN

‘ul9}s1aq(qja—Fl

“Ulo}sIaqQQ— Ee “olny

NO. 7 SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1920 29

which the street is lined. Today the towns offer an interesting illus-
tration of the continued development of an industry long after the
conditions which gave it birth have ceased to exist.

Interest in the two towns is, however, not limited to the “ edelstein ”
industry. High up on the ragged hills that dominate Idar are the ruins
of two castles dating back to a very early period—it is said to
about the middle of the eleventh century. Tradition has it that in
one of these dwelt two brothers. Whether a cat or a lovely maiden was
the exciting cause (the tradition varies on this point), a violent
quarrel developed which culminated in the younger being thrown from
the castle window and dashed to pieces upon the rocks below.
Repentant for his hasty act, the elder wandered aimlessly forth,
entering first the service of the prior of a Rhenish monastery and
afterward becoming a crusader, ultimately receiving absolution on
condition that he return and with his own hands erect a sanctuary
upon the exact spot where his brother fell. The penalty was carried
out, and the now existing church, erected it is said in 1482, occupies
the original site. It is an interesting little relic, its steeple alone pro-
jecting beyond the face of the cliff, and is well worthy the climb
of the 163 irregular stone steps to give it a visit.

EXPLORATIONS FOR MICROFOSSILS IN FRANCE
AND GERMANY

Probably no branch of natural history has received more intensive
study during the past 10 years than the microscopic fossils which have
proved of such great value in the determination of underground
structure, particularly in oil geology. The paleontological collections
of the U. S. National Museum are rich in species of fossil micro-
organisms from many American Mesozoic and Cenozoic formations.
Although many of these species have been separated and photographed
during the past 20 years, their descriptions have never been published
because of uncertainty regarding their relationship to the many
described European species. Numerous large monographs and thou-
sands of smaller articles upon European microfossils, particularly
the moss-animals or bryozoa, the bivalve crustacea or ostracoda and
the foraminifera among the protozoa, have been published during
the past century but, in most cases, the illustrations are either free-
hand sketches or diagrammatic drawings which make the recogni-
tion of the species uncertain unless specimens from the type locality
are available for study. To secure such typical European material
for comparison with the American faunas, Dr. R. S. Bassler. curator
of paleontology, U. S. National Museum, spent August and Septem-
30 SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VOL. 78

ber, 1926, in a study of various classic localities in France and
Germany.

The first two weeks were occupied in a study of the Paris Basin
in company with Dr. Ferdinand Canu of Versailles, France, the
most eminent student of microfossils upon the Continent. The vari-
ous publications upon American fossil bryozoa by Canu and Bassler
were prepared entirely by correspondence, dating back to 1Igo9,
so that the actual meeting of these co-workers was a long anticipated
pleasure. The result was that more time was spent in personal con-
ference upon the past and future work than in actual field investi-

MORE x Ba crceerecceress
RT

Fic. 35.—Die Pfalz, Rhine Gorge. (Photograph by Bassler.)

gations. However, the main formations of the Paris Basin were
studied in a general way, but the most valuable collections of micro-
fossils from this area were donated by Dr. Canu from material
secured in his previous researches. In remembrance of this meeting
and of his years of pleasant association with the paleontological
work of the National Museum, Dr. Canu also presented to the National
Museum his entire collection of French Cenozoic and Mesozoic fos-
sils, numbering not less than a hundred thousand specimens. This
gift is of particular interest to American paleontologists in that all
the specimens are most carefully labelled as to exact horizon and
locality, a most necessary item in present-day studies but often lack-
ing in many collections from foreign countries.
NO. 7 SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1926 31

Leaving Dr. Canu with much regret, Dr. Bassler proceeded to
the Rhine valley where he studied, in succession, the broad plain
around Strassburg, the valley to Mainz and the valley of the Main
River from Mainz to Frankfort. Next the trip through the Rhine
gorge was made, which was particularly interesting in that a first-
hand knowledge was obtained of the Devonian stratigraphy of this
classic area. Important collections of Devonian fossils were secured
here, and the classification of them as well as of other collections
from this area secured in the past, can now be made intelligently.

Fic. 36.--Bavarian Plateau at Munich with Deutsches Museum.

Although Rhine valley scenes are familiar to all, the photograph of
the Pfalz in the middle of the river, the ruined castle at the top of
the plateau, the modern town at the water level and the terraces for
vineyards, in addition to the stratigraphy (fig. 35) make a combi-
nation of geological and historical interest hard to surpass.

The Early Tertiary deposits of southern Bavaria were next studied,
and opportunity was taken here to visit the wonderful Deutsches
Museum at Munich (fig. 36) where one can study the underground
geology of the earth’s crust in the basement halls and proceed from
story to story through all phases of human activity until in the
planetarium at the top of the building the movements of the heavenly
bodies are exhibited. A chance to study the Mesozoic limestones of
32 SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS voL. 78
the Bavarian Alps quickly and without effort was afforded by a visit
to the Zugspitze on the Bavarian-Austrian boundary where the re-
cently completed cable system to the top of the mountain, over nine
thousand feet high, conveys one in 20 minutes over this distance
which the best of climbers cannot accomplish in less than two days.
The tiny car, operated as shown in figure 37, brings one at times

Itc. 37.—Cable road to top of Zugspitze, Bavarian Alps.

close enough to the limestone strata to give a good idea of the
geological structure.

Proceeding northward from Munich, various regions in Germany
were studied with profit both in the amount of good study material
secured and in the information regarding stratigraphic relationships.
The classic Mesozoic region north of the Hartz Mountains was
visited in company with Mr. Ehrhard Voigt, an enthusiastic student
of microfossils at Dessau, Germany. Mr. Voigt also accompanied
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1926 33

NO.

NI

Fic. 38.—Baltic Plain, south of Berlin. Taken from train, the shadow of
which shows in fore part of view. (Photograph by Bassler.)

Fic. 39.—Chalk cliff along coast, Island of Rugen.
34 SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VOL. 78

Dr. Bassler to other regions celebrated in German stratigraphy, par-
ticularly the potash areas around Stassfurt, the drift region around
Dessau and other regions to the north, and finally to the Island of Ru-
gen on the Baltic. During these explorations, a short time was spent in
the Berlin Basin where under the guidance of Dr. Kurt Hucke, of
Templin, Germany, a good idea of the geology was obtained. This
area and that to the north belongs to the Baltic Plain, a flat region
covered with glacial deposits (fig. 38) in which the underground
stratigraphy is made out with difficulty. However, the pebbles in
these drift deposits afford such good clues to the geological struc-
ture, from their contained fossils, that a new phase of research has
been developed by Dr. Hucke and his associates and a special society
for this study has been formed. Der Zeitschrift fiir Geschiebefor-
schung, the journal of this society, of which Dr. Hucke is President,
contains discussions of drift problems which are quite new to the
American investigator.

The classic Island of Rugen, off the north coast of Germany, with
its chalk cliffs of Cretaceous age, was then visited, and although
most beautiful from a scenic standpoint, it proved at first very disap-
pointing paleontologically. Hundreds of species of Cretaceous micro-
fossils have been described from this area and it was believed that
the specimens would surely occur in great abundance. However,
as shown in figure 39, the cliffs are almost inaccessible and only the
chalk blocks which have fallen to the beach are available for material.
Upon breaking up these blocks, few fossils were found. The dis-
appointment was lessened by the fact that the shore is composed
of undecomposed boulders of various igneous rocks, limestones,
sandstones and other types deposited here as drift material during
glacial and subsequent times. All the various formations to the
north are represented and some of the formations are evidently from
outcrops at the bottom of the Baltic Sea for they never have been
found in place on the land. The latter formations, curiously enough,
were particularly rich in microfossils. The disappointment over the
few fossils in the chalk bed was dissipated entirely when the “ Kreide-
schlemmerei’’ or chalk washing establishments at the town of Sas-
snitz on Rugen were located. It happens that an important industry
has been developed around the use of chalk for various whitening
purposes, but the chalk must be pure and free from fossils and flint
fragments. To accomplish this, the chalk is passed through the
washers and all the fine and coarse débris is sieved out and thrown
aside leaving the water with its dissolved material to settle. The
NO. 7 SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1926 as

pile of débris resulting from such washing as shown in figure 40
explains why so many fossils have been discovered in this area.
Not only were many excellent echinoids, brachiopods and other
large fossils picked up in the dump heap, but literally billions of
microfossils were obtained simply by shoveling up several boxes of
the fine debris.

Fic. 40.—Kreide-schlemmerei at Sassnitz, Island of Rtigen,
showing chalk cliff in background and pit dump heap of fossils
in foreground. (Photograph by Bassler.)

The last few days of the trip were spent in London where an
idea of the stratigraphy of the London Basin was obtained although
most of the available time was devoted to a study of Museum
methods and to conferences with scientific friends. The material
results of the summer’s work have reached Washington safely
and after two months’ work are now unpacked and in proper form
for study.
36 SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VOL. 78

GEOLOGICAL FIELD-WORK IN THE ROCKY MOUNTAINS

In continuation of the geological field-work in Rocky Mountain
stratigraphy, under the direction of Secretary Charles D. Walcott,
Dr. Charles E. Resser, associate curator of paleontology, U. S. Na-
tional Museum, accompanied by Mr. Erwin R. Pohl, of the paleon-
tological staff, left Provo, Utah, with the regular field outfit late in
July, 1926.

The first objective was the determination of the section in Shoshone
Canyon west of Cody, Wyo. The strata were here found to be
rather badly metamorphosed, and fossils were few, but enough
information was obtained to determine the position of the exposed
Cambrian beds. An attempt was next made to work out the difficult
sections farther north in the Beartooth Range, with the result that the
proper stratigraphic position of the rocks was determined although
the minor details could not be ascertained because of the ruggedness
of the country.

The major objective of the season’s work was a restudy of the
famous sections north of the Gallatin Valley in Montana. Camp
was established at Logan and daily trips made into one or another part
of the foothills north of the Gallatin River. Mr. Pohl here investi-
gated the Devonian strata particularly, securing good study col-
lections. The Cambrian beds yielded many fine trilobites and other
fossils as they have in the past, but a new locality in Nixon’s Gulch
furnished a large collection representing the Middle Cambrian Stephen
fauna of British Columbia.

After the extended stop at Logan, camp was moved to Pole Creek
south of the Madison River in the foothills of the Madison Range.
Here ample collections were obtained from Middle Cambrian beds
from which the National Museum had previously but a few
fragments.

Near the close of the season several days were occupied in the
study of the exposures in the Wasatch Mountains north of Brigham
City, Utah. Dr. Asa A. L. Mathews, of the University of Utah;
joined the party and served as guide to the places where he had
previously discovered outcrops of fossiliferous Cambrian and Cana-
dian formations. Two very strenuous trips to the top of the range
resulted in obtaining many instructive fossils.

The season as a whole yielded returns beyond the average for
several seasons past, in quantity and quality of fossils and in new
stratigraphic data.
NO. 7 SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1926 37

Fic. 41.—Shoshone Canyon, west of Cody, Wyoming. Upper Cambrian beds
directly beyond bridge. Massive limestone below bridge, Bighorn Formation.
Wall of Canyon at right, Mississippian rocks. (Photograph by Milwaukee
Public Museum. )
38 SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VOL. 78

Fic. 42—View northward across Gallatin River, north of Manhattan, Mon-—
tana. Low hills of Paleozoic rocks. Nixon’s Gulch on right side. (Photograph
lony 1B, 1k) Ione)

Fic. 43.—Gallatin Valley at Logan, Montana. Upper Cambrian strata at
extreme right. Massive cliff, Jefferson limestone. Gully at left typical feature
due to outcrop of the Three Forks Shale. (Photograph by E. R. Pohl.)
NO.

SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1926 39

N

tok Se

Fic. 44.—Gallatin Canyon near Cherry Creek Road. Cliffs formed by Paleozoic
limestones. (Photograph by Chas. E. Resser.)

Fic. 45.—Details of Middle Cambrian strata, north side of Gallatin River,
east of Logan, Montana. (Photograph by Chas. E. Resser.)
40 SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VOL. 78

GEOLOGICAL FIELD-WORK IN NEW YORK AND ONTARIO

In continuation of work begun in 1925 by the division of paleon-
tology of the U. S. National Museum, Mr. Erwin R. Pohl was
detailed to spend four weeks during the summer of 1926 in the
field in procuring the detailed data necessary to label correctly as to
geological horizon the large collections of Devonian fossils from
many classic localities in the eastern United States. Work was con-
tinued on the section at Kashong Creek in west-central New York
where the beds of lower Hamilton age, including the Skaneateles and
Ludlowville shales were made the subject of close stratigraphical

Fic. 46.—-Falls of Kashong Creek over upper part of Ludlowville shale.
Bellona, Seneca Lake, N. Y. (Photograph by E. R. Pohl.)

study. These strata contain many rare and excellently preserved
invertebrate fossil remains, and not only were the collections 1n-
creased but the information was also acquired to make those already
in the Museum of real scientific value under the newer methods of
study. Figure 46 illustrates one of the many charming waterfalls
that abound in this section of the country. The strata here lie prac-
tically horizontal, and the falls are almost invariably due to the resis-
tance of a harder bed of rock and the undercutting of the less resistant
underlying layers.

At Ithaca, N. Y., due to the general southerly dip of the strata,
excellent exposures of upper Devonian rocks are afforded, and the
locality shown in figure 47 is a collecting ground that has long been
NOt; SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1926 AI

favored by geological collectors. The beds exhibited are at the base
of a considerable invasion of the Portage during the Upper Devonian
and carry a distinct fauna of striking forms. Several other noted
localities in central and western New York were also paid brief
visits. The most important of these trips, both in purpose and result,
was that to examine the Middle and Upper Devonian beds at the
celebrated series of sections along 18 Mile Creek and the north and
south shores of Lake Erie. In this vicinity the entire sequence of the
Hamilton, which in central New York comprises some 400 feet of

Fic. 47.Ithaca Falls over Ithaca beds of Portage age. Ithaca, N. Y.
(Photograph by E. R. Pohl.)

rock and in eastern New York and Pennsylvania is as thick as 3000
feet, is represented in less than 90 feet of superimposed beds. The
faunal sequence, however, is as well marked, and the zones even more
distinct than those of their eastern equivalents, for here the succession
lacks many of the invasions that are represented in the more easterly
deposits of the same age. This portion of the expedition was under-
taken in cooperation with the Department of Geology of the Milwau-
kee Public Museum, which institution was represented by Mr. Gil-
bert O. Raasch, assistant curator of geology.

Following the work at 18 Mile Creek, Mr. Pohl proceeded alone
to Thedford and Arkona, Ontario, Canada, for the purpose of
42 SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VOL. 78

Fic. 48—Beds of Hamilton age at 18-Mile Creek. The protruding band is
the Encrinal limestone, which separates the lower from the upper Hamilton.
Section 7, 18-Mile Creek, N. Y. (Photograph by E. R. Pohl.)

Fic. 49.—Section of the middle Devonian shales at No. 4 Hill, Arkona,
Ontario, Canada. The beds are divided into lower and upper Hamilton by
the Encrinal limestone in the middle foreground. (Photograph by E. R. Pohl.)
NO. 7 SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1926 43

determining the correlation of the beds exposed in that region with
those of the New York deposits. The country intervening has been
subjected to much erosion and is moreover covered under a heavy
deposit of glacial material, so that the strata under study are nowhere
displayed. This correlation was accomplished on the basis of a bed
immediately above the Encrinal limestone, shown in figures 48 and 49,
which contains the exact fauna that is carried in one of the zones
of the section in western New York at East Bethany. The strata
at Thedford and Arkona have been separated into a three-fold divi-

Fic. 50—Rock Glen, Arkona, Ontario. The Encrinal limestone here forms
a small falls due to relative resistance in contrast to that of the soft shales
above and below. (Photograph by E. R. Pohl.)

sion according to their fossil content. The lower beds, or as they are
locally called, the Olentangy shales, are composed of fine gray shales
which easily weather into a soft mud used in making pottery, and
carry thin lenses of hard crystalline limestone composed throughout
of masses of beautifully sculptured fossil remains. Several large
exhibition slabs, besides much other material, were returned to the
Museum from these beds. The middle division includes the so-called
Encrinal limestone which is made up of an innumerable mass of
crinoid remains, and a three-foot bed of shale which is referred to as
the “coral bed” on account of the large number of fossil corals

4
44 SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VOL. 78

that it contains. This is the bed whose fauna is also found in New
York State. The Widder beds, or the upper division, contain an
entirely different fauna and one that is not known elsewhere. The
entire section is well exposed in several ravines such as those shown
in figures 49 and 50, and is followed by black shales of Mississippian
age which contain conodonts and plant remains. These beds are
best exposed on the shores of Lake Huron at Kettle Point (fig. 51).
Included in the shale, which has a high bituminous content, are many

Fic. 51.—Huron shales of Mississippian age, with included “ cannon-ball”
concretions. Kettle Point, Lake Huron, Ontario, Canada. (Photograph by
oR Pohls)

and often large peculiar spherical concretions with a radially crystal-
line structure. The nucleus of these concretions is usually a single
plate of some armored fish of the Mississippian. In emerging from
the shales under the action of erosion and frost, these concretions
often split in half and lie about as the “ kettles ” of local terminology.
The work in this district was aided by several amateur collectors
including Messrs. Charles Southworth and J. R. Kearny, who have
also been prevailed on to add to the Museum collections from their
lifelong accumulations of local collecting.
NO. 7 SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1926 45

COLLECDING, FOSSIL; FOOTPRINTS IN THE
GRAND CANYON, ARIZONA

In continuation of the investigation of the fossil tracks found
in the Grand Canyon, so well begun in 1924, Mr. Charles W. Gil-
more, curator of the division of vertebrate paleontology, U. S. Na-
tional Museum, made a second visit to the Canyon in the early
spring of 1926.

This investigation, made possible through an allotment granted
by the Marsh Fund Committee of the National Academy of Sciences,
had as its purpose the acquiring of additional specimens of fossil
tracks from the Coconino and Hermit formations and the extension
of the explorations into the older Supai formation in which the
discovery of fossil tracks had been reported by Mr. J. R. Eakin,
Superintendent of the Grand Canyon National Park.

Arriving at the Canyon on April 20, Mr. Gilmore with one assistant
spent three weeks in active field-work collecting and exploring these
formations as exposed on the Hermit and Yaki trails. The expedition
was successful far beyond expectations, as the collection made con-
sisted of a large series of slabs of some 2,700 pounds in weight on
whose surfaces were preserved the foot impressions of a great vari-
ety of animal life.

The old Coconino locality on the Hermit Trail was revisited and
a large series of beautifully preserved tracks and trails secured,
which included many kinds that were new to this Ichnite fauna. In
the Hermit shale some 1,400 feet below the level of the Canyon rim
a large assemblage of fossil tracks and plants was collected. The
presence of insect remains was made known for the first time by
the discovery of the wing impression of a large dragonfly-like insect ;
and finally in the Supai formation 1,800 feet below the rim another
footprint horizon, was definitely located.

Fossil tracks were found in considerable abundance in all three
of these formations and at several levels in the Hermit Trail sec-
tion, and it was along this trail that most of the collecting was done.
This later investigation shows that in the perfection of their preserva-
tion and in the great variety of footmarks found, there are few locali-
ties that outrank this one. It is further unique in probably being the
only place in the world where fossil tracks of three successive faunas
may be found in one nearly vertical geological section, separated
by such great geological intervals. It is now known that these
evidences of past life range through over 800 feet of rock strata.

*Smithsonian Misc. Coll., Vol. 78, No. 1, 1926, pp. 20-23.

40 SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VOL. 78

Fic. 52.—Trackway of a small salamander-like animal showing the marks
of a dragging tail between the footprints. More than natural size.
47

SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1926

IN

NO.

£ fossil

W species o

footprints (on right). Both reduced.

Fic. 53.—Trackway of Laoporus noblei Lull (on left.) Ne
48 SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VOL. 78

At the present time fossil tracks are known in these formations
only on the Hermit and Yaki trails, but doubtless their geographical
range will be rapidly extended now that the precise levels of their
occurrence has been determined.

Previous mention has been made of the curious fact that in the
Coconino nearly all of the tracks and trails were going in one direc-
tion, that is, up the slopes of the crossbedded sandstones. Examina-
tion of many additional hundred square feet of track-covered sur-
face all goes to confirm this original observation, for in the hundreds
of trails seen in the field only three exceptions to this trend of direc-
tion were observed. While slabs of considerable size were collected,
larger and more impressive trackways might have been secured but
for the difficulty of transporting them to the top of the Canyon, as
all of these specimens were brought out of the Canyon on mule back
along a narrow and often precipitous trail. It will thus be seen that
the size of the specimens collected was always determined by the
carrying capacity of a mule, which is about 150 pounds on these
trails.

Preliminary study of this collection of tracks indicates that the
known Ichnite fauna of the Coconino will be doubled in the number
of genera and species; that an adequate fauna will be established
for the Hermit shale ; and a beginning will be made in the development
of a fauna for the Supai formation. The development of these
Ichnite faunas may, in the absence of other fossil criteria, be of
great assistance in the correlation of other track-bearing formations
of distant localities.

AN ELEPHANT HUNT IN FLORIDA

A mountable skeleton of some species of American mammoth has
been long desired for the National Museum exhibition collection.
But while remains of these extinct elephants have been gathered
from almost all parts of North America, they consist for the most
part of isolated teeth and bones. Occasionally jaws and still less
frequently skulls with parts of the skeleton have been located. The
National Museum has two of these skulls. The smaller, representing
the species Elephas primigenius, is from northeast Siberia ; the larger
one, Elephas boreus, was found in a Pleistocene deposit near
Cincinnati, Ohio. The next in importance of remains of the mam-
moth in the National Museum is a specimen from Idaho, repre-
senting a third species, Elephas columbi. This specimen consists
of part of a lower jaw and an upper tooth associated with several
NO. 7 SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1926 49

other parts of the skeleton. None of this material however, is suffi-
ciently complete to form the basis of a successful skeleton restora-
tion. It was therefore with renewed hope of realizing this desire for
a mountable skeleton of one of these great elephants that a message
was received, in the early autumn of the present year, from the
Venice Company of Venice, Florida, reporting the discovery near that
place of a mammoth skeleton. A cordial invitation to the Smith-
sonian to send and secure this specimen for the Institution’s col-
lections accompanied this report, and as this seemed sufficiently
promising to warrant investigation, Dr. James W. Gidley, assistant
curator, division of fossil vertebrates, was detailed to go to Venice
for that purpose. Arriving there on the morning of the first day
of November, Dr. Gidley was occupied for the next 10 days with
collecting the fossil, and with studying the geological formations in
its vicinity.

A preliminary examination revealed the fact that the bones all
belonged to one individual but that the skeleton was by no means
complete. However, the specimen was very far from valueless, and
the portions remaining were of sufficient value to amply repay the
time and expense required to collect and preserve them. Among
the more important pieces obtained are the lower jaws including the
teeth, both upper cheek-teeth, considerable portions of both tusks
and many of the more important bones of the feet.

These pieces show that this mammoth, or extinct elephant, had
been an animal of very large size. In life it would have stood at
least 12 feet high at the shoulders and it carried a pair of great
incurving tusks which were eight inches in diameter and, measured
around the curves, were each 10 feet or more in length.

The location of this find is the north bank of the main drainage
canal of the Venice Company at a point about four miles east of the
Venice Hotel. The bones were first discovered by Mr. J. W. Parker,
a farmer living in the vicinity, while walking along the water's edge
after the subsidence of an unusually heavy freshet which had filled
the canal to overflowing and had caused heavy caving of its banks.
It was this caving that had brought the bones fully to view. It also
broke up and destroyed many of the bones including the skull which
evidently had been originally buried there, together with a consid-
erable portion of the skeleton.

This partial skeleton was originally buried about five to six feet
below the present surface of the ground in a stratum of sand belong-
ing to the Pleistocene or so-called Ice Age. As revealed by the cut
made by the canal, this sand deposit lies directly on an older Pleisto-
50 SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VOL- 78

cene stratum, several feet in thickness and of very wide extent, which
is made up almost entirely of shells representing numerous species
which can live only in brackish or salt water. This is evidence that
the sea once covered this part of Florida and that in its shallow depth
was formed this widespread layer of shells. Later, as it slowly
emerged from the sea, the bone-bearing sand layer was formed upon it.

The mammoth bones themselves tell an interesting little story of
conditions which prevailed here when Florida was in the process of
being transformed into its present day appearance.

Itc. 54.—North bank of Venice Company’s main drainage canal, about 4
miles east of Venice, Florida. Location of Venice mammoth bones. Exact
spot of find is indicated by canvas shelter at middle-left. Arrow indicates
uneven line marking contact plane between fossil-bearing layer and later
deposits.

In excavating these bones it was observed that they had not
originally lain in a natural position but had been somewhat scattered
about and broken before their final covering many thousands of
years ago. This together with the fact that they were buried in a sand
which contained many broken sea shells, in fact a typical beach
sand, suggested that although this spot is now more than four miles
inland, it was in that earlier time a sea beach upon which the mam-
moth carcass had stranded and as the flesh decayed the bones had
been considerably tossed about and broken by the waves. That
this was in reality a sea beach at the time the bones were buried
NO. 7 SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1926 SI

there is apparently fully proven by the fact that many of the bones
including the lower jaws and teeth had a considerable covering of
barnacles which can only live in salt or at least brackish water. The
fact that barnacles had attached themselves to the broken surfaces
is proof also that some of the bones had been broken before the
final covering. The presence of the barnacles also indicates that the
bones before their final covering had lain for some time just off
shore in shallow water.

In connection with this story of the Venice mammoth, it seems
in order here to express to the officers of the Venice Company
appreciation for the courtesies extended to Dr. Gidley while engaged
in collecting the specimen and to commend them for their public-
spirited generosity in supplying all the material and labor needed for
the work as well as assuming for the Smithsonian Institution prac-
tically all incidental expenses in connection with it.

COLLECTING MINERALS IN MEXICO

Regarding the mineralogy and geology of Mexico comparatively
little is known. The country is rich in mineral wealth, producing
over 40 per cent of the world’s silver, yet very few Mexican min-
eralogical collections have been made. This present exploration
was undertaken by Dr. F. W. Foshag of the Smithsonian Institution
in collaboration with the Mineralogical Museum of Harvard Univer-
sity, for the purpose of collecting representative material from as many
of the districts as possible. Field-work was confined to that portion of
the plateau of Northern Mexico within the states of Chihuahua,
Coahuila, and Durango.

The plateau region of Northern Mexico is characterized by a broad
high plain from which have been thrust upward numerous mono-
clinal or anticlinal ranges of mountains. The plains and valleys
between the ranges are clothed with grasses or scattered shrubs,
and the slopes carry a sparse covering of brush characteristic of
the Lower Sonoran life zone. This zone is characterized by a
number of yucca and cactus species, the creosote bush and, in nu-
merous places, the showy ocotillo. In a number of places the yuccas
form extensive open groves. Some of these desert plants are put
to economic uses; maguey and sotol for fermented drinks, lechu-
guilla for fiber, candelilla as a source of vegetable wax, and guayule
for rubber.

The ore deposits of the area visited may be considered a mineralogi-
cal unit. The most important are found in limestone of Cretaceous age
52 SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS voL. 78
and are without apparent direct connection with intruded granitic
rocks, although there probably is a connection. This class of ore is
comparatively simple mineralogically, consisting of silver, lead and
zinc minerals accompanied by only minor amounts of silicates. A
number of the richest and most extensive ore deposits of Mexico
belong to this type of ore occurrence.

After leaving El Paso, the first district visited was Los Lamentos
in the northern part of the state of Chihuahua. This district con-

Fic. 55.—The mining camp of Los Lamentos, Chihuahua. The rocks are
fossiliferous Cretaceous limestones. (Photograph by Foshag.)

tains one of the few great ore deposits of Mexico that was not known
to the Spanish conquerors. The extremely dry and inhospitable nature
of the region probably accounts for this. The ore deposits are of
so simple a type and the relations of the ore to country rock so clear,
that it has become a standard for this type of occurrence. The ore
persistently follows the contact between a hard, dark gray lime-
stone and a lighter fossiliferous one, and consists of the simple lead
and zinc minerals without any development of silicate minerals but
with a surrounding aureole of recrystallized limestone. Many other
North Mexican ore deposits are similar, although not always so
simple. The mine is rich in showy minerals of both lead and zinc. |
NO. 7 SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1926 53

The region surrounding the city of Chihuahua is a rich one.
Sixteen miles away is the famous camp of Santa Eulalia, where since
1591 the mines have been in almost constant operation. The ore bodies
are quite extensive, carrying silver, lead, and zinc, and occurring in

Fic. 56.—Large crystals of gypsum in a cave in the Maravilla
Mine at Naica, Chihuahua. (Photograph by Foshag.)

“ mantos,’” one ore body having been followed for over two miles.
Some of the chambers left by the removal of the ore are enormous,
one in the Potosi Mine being 600 feet high, 300 feet long, and 200
feet wide. Other nearby localities visited were the La Ceja district,
producing lead and zinc; Placer de Guadalupe, a small camp well
known for its gold placers and for the combination of gold and pitch-
54 SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VOL. 78

blende in its lodes; and Cuchillo Parado, a lead deposit on the
Conchos River.

About 50 miles south of Chihuahua is the camp of Naica, known
to mineralogists for its two crystal caves, the larger being in the
Maravilla Mine. Here are several chambers connected by passage

Fic. 57—A peon carrying lead ore up a “chicken ladder.”
Encantata Mine, at Esmeralda, Coahuila. (Photograph by
Foshag. )

ways, one chamber containing well-formed groups of long, radiating
crystals of clear gypsum growing from the floor of the cave. Many
of these crystals exceed three feet and some reach six feet in length.
Another chamber, reached through a narrow opening studded with
crystals, is completely lined with thousands of blade-like crystals
one to three feet in length.

Sierra Mojada, the next district visited, owes its discovery to a
band of smugglers attempting to elude pursuit. The ore bodies
extend for a distance of six kilometers along the foot of a limestone
NO. 7 SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1926 55

cliff 2,500 feet high. The district is unusual in that lead, zinc,
silver, copper, and sulphur have all been mined here. The great
length but shallow depth of these mines makes it more economical
to work them by the old Spanish methods than by modern ones.
Much of the ore is brought to the surface on the backs of peons,
often up ladders made of notched logs, popularly called “ chicken
ladders.’ It is said that a strong peon will carry loads in excess of

Fic. 58.—The mining camp of Ojuela at Mapimi, Durango. The rocks are
Cretaceous limestone. (Photograph by Foshag.)

100 kilos (220 lbs.). Figure 57 shows a young lad carrying a sack
of heavy lead ore by means of a tump line.

In the northeastern part of the state of Durango, near the village of
Mapimi, is the Ojuela mine—one of the greatest lead mines of the
world. Within this one mine are over 550 miles of tunnels driven to
extract the ore. The camp itself is perched on a steep limestone
mountain. Before the town, rises an almost vertical cliff of Cre-
taceous limestone 2,000 to 3,000 feet high. It is in the hills lying at
the base of this cliff that the ore bodies lie.

Velardena, a district lying along the Cuencame River in Durango,
has mines of copper, lead, and silver. The Ternares mine, located in
the San Lorenzo Range, has been worked for over 200 years. The
56 SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VOL. 78

ore deposits are at the contact of granitic rocks with limestones,
or in veins in diorite. At the Ternares Mine the limestone contact
zone is characterized by great quantities of velardenite, spurrite, and
hillebrandite, minerals first described as new from this locality.
About a mile from the railroad station in the city of Durango,
rises a mass of volcanic rock and iron ore called Cerro Mercado.

Fic. 59.—Old church on Cerro Remedios, Durango. The rhyolite of
this hill is a low grade tin ore. (Photograph by Foshag.)

The iron ore deposits of this hill constitute Mexico’s chief domestic
supply. The iron-bearing mineral is almost entirely hematite, the
ferric oxide of iron, and it forms large masses in a rhyolitic rock.

Nearly five months were spent in the field and over two tons of
specimens collected and shipped. The success of the field-work
was largely due to the hearty cooperation of the Mexican govern-
ment officials and of the American mining engineers in charge of
the various properties.
NO. 7 SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1926 57

THE CANFIELD MINERALOGICAL COLLECTION

Field-work of Mr. E. V. Shannon, assistant curator, division of
physical and chemical geology, U. S. National Museum, was limited
to a few trips to nearby Virginia and Maryland, and to nearly a
month spent in Dover in northern New Jersey in packing the col-
lection of minerals bequeathed to the National Museum by Dr.
Frederick A. Canfield, who died during July of this year. This
collection was begun by Mr. Mahlon Dickerson about 1808 and was

Oa.0 de PRET Pe <de B aa
Oa Seam 22 8s i dp @ xs oS Mm hooee
QA Bas ns FMd oe

PTE a® « oe nid Selita

Fic. 60.—The collection of Franklin Furnace minerals, made by Frederick
Canfield, Sr.

continued by Frederick Canfield, Sr., who secured many uncommonly
fine specimens from old American localities no longer available and
especially from Franklin Furnace, New Jersey, prior to 1870.
Frederick A. Canfield, Jr., continued his father’s collection and found
in it his principal occupation and relaxation until his death. It now
contains some 9,000 specimens, many of which are unique and all of
them of exceptional quality. It was housed for over 70 years in the
picturesque mansion at Dover, shown in figure 61, before being
finally shipped to the National Museum. In order to insure its
steady growth and relative standing, Mr. Canfield accompanied his
58 SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VOL. 78

gift with an endowment of $50,000, the income of which is to be
utilized for this purpose. In the work at Dover, Mr. Shannon was
ably assisted by Mr. James Benn of the Museum’s staff and Geo. M.
Hyland.

The opportunity was offered to visit several of the world-famous
mineral localities of northern New Jersey. These included the various
iron mines of Mine Hill, Wharton, and the vicinity of Dover.
Of these the only one now in operation is the Hurd Mine owned by
the Replogle Steel Company at Mount Hope.

Fic. 61.—Canfield house at Dover, N. J.

Through the courtesy of the officials of the New Jersey Zinc Com-
pany, it was possible to visit the underground workings and surface
plant of the great zinc mine at Franklin Furnace, renowned as one of
the most productive known localities for rare minerals. The mine
and mill are models in efficiency, and the various methods which have
been developed for handling the ore are of extreme interest. The
quarries which furnish the beautiful zeolites at Great Notch and West
Paterson were visited in company with the Newark Mineralogical
Society, and a Sunday was spent at the well-known serpentine
locality of Montville.

THE ROEBLING MINERALOGICAL COLLECTION

In July, 1926, a second of America’s foremost collectors of min-
erals, Col. Washington A. Roebling, of Trenton, New Jersey, passed
NO. 7 SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 19206 59

away. His noted collection was bequeathed to his son, Mr. John A.
Roebling, of Bernardsville, New Jersey, who, in memory of his
father, generously presented it to the Smithsonian Institution, with
an endowment of $150,000 for the purpose of maintaining its present
high standard.

On October 27, Dr. W. F. Foshag, Miss Margaret Moodey, and
Mr. James Benn, of the staff, were detailed to go to Trenton to pack
the collection for shipment to Washington. Mrs. Foshag also acted
as a volunteer assistant for the greater part of the time. The work
occupied a period of approximately six weeks, and the collection, con-
tained in 258 boxes, was transported by truck and safely stored in
the National Museum by December 7. It should be stated, incidentally,
that Mr. Roebling defrayed all expenses connected with this work.

The career of Col. Washington A. Roebling, soldier, engineer, and
mineralogist, is too well known to need narration here. The collecting
of minerals was begun as a recreation and was energetically carried
on from 1874 until the time of his death. With ample means to indulge
this hobby, he spared no expense in securing rare minerals, both
from American and foreign sources. In a large room in his beautifut
home in Trenton, called by his family and friends ‘ the museum,”
the collection was artistically arranged, and it was here that the
Colonel spent most of his leisure time, delighting in showing his
treasures to his friends, and being particularly happy if the caller
chanced to be a mineralogist with whom he could discuss his rare finds.
So methodical was the arrangement that hecould place his hand almost
immediately on any specimen desired.

Comprised of upward of 16,000 specimens, embracing almost the
entire number of known mineral species, the collection contains much
to delight both the eye of the seeker for mere beauty and the heart
of the ardent student. Gem minerals are plentiful but there are only
a few cut stones; showy examples of the more common minerals—
malachite and azurite, quartz, calcites, and especially fine zeolites—are
in abundance, but the chief value of the collection lies in the rare
specimens which only the student can appreciate. Many of these
represent the only example of a species in America. During the Col-
onel’s lifetime, these were always freely loaned for study or com-
parison, and their usefulness will be increased when their final insta!-
lation in the national collections makes them accessible to all accredited
students.

BIOLOGICAL COLLECTING IN SUMATRA

Lieutenant Henry C. Kellers, Medical Corps, United States Navy,
was detailed as representative of the Smithsonian Institution with

re

re)
60 SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VOL. 78

the U. S. Naval Observatory Eclipse Expedition to Sumatra. Dr.
Kellers reports the following:

The expedition left San Francisco September I, and arrived at
Sumatra October 26, stopping at Java for three days for visé of
credentials of the members of the expedition by the Dutch officials.
The Astronomical Station was located at Kepahiang, a small village
on the Moesi River situated among the foothills of the western
range, with an elevation of about 1,900 feet above sea level. Kepa-
hiang is near Mt. Kaba, an active volcano, and about 40 kilometers
from the Indian Ocean. This proved to be an excellent location
for collecting trips. Most of the collecting was done around and on
the slopes of Mt. Kaba.

Two ascents of this mountain were made to the rim of the crater,
and on each occasion numerous specimens were collected. Snares
and spring traps were set along the banks of the Moesi River and
in the jungle, with good results. As the rainy season was on in
force by the end of November, hunting in the jungle was rather
disagreeable because of the countless leeches that attacked one, no
matter what precautions were taken. They bite so softly that their
presence cannot be detected except for the blood which trickles from
the wound. After covering a few kilometers in the jungle, the legs
of my native hunters would change in color from the natural brown
to a bright red, when they would rest and scrape off the leeches.
The terraced rice fields in the vicinity of the station were worked over
with seine and dip net for fresh-water fish and amphibia, with good
results, and many reptiles were captured.

Four trips were made to the village of Benkoelen on the coast of
the Indian Ocean for marine invertebrates and tow net hauls. A
double outrigger canoe was used for towing the plankton nets, and
I was able by increasing or furling the sail area, to obtain all the
speed needed with the afternoon trade wind. The canoe although
rather small, was in no danger of turning over while sailing, as
the outriggers used by the natives were the largest I have seen,
either in the Solomon group of Islands or the Samoan Islands that
I have visited. Two excursions were made to the Island of Poeloetikus
in the Indian Ocean where large quantities of marine life were
collected.

The advent of the automobile, with the whirr of the engine on the
roads skirting the edge of the jungle, makes collecting more difficult,
and one must now penetrate far into the jungle to hunt game which
formerly might have been obtained comparatively near the borders
of the wild territory.
NO. 7 SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1926 61

Fic. 62—Looking into the crater of Mt. Kaba, Sumatra. (Photograph by
Kellers. )

Fic. 63.—Community rice mill on the Moesi River, Sumatra. (Photograph by
Kellers. )
62 SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VOL. 78

Fic. 64—Hauling the seine on the beach at Benkoelen, Sumatra.
(Photograph by Kellers )

Fic. 65.—Sumatran outrigger canoe used for towing the plankton net.
(Photograph by Kellers.)
NO. 7 SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1926 63

Although malaria is very prevalent on the island, the members
of the expedition enjoyed excellent health. Mosquitoes were a pest,
and none of the houses was screened. The Europeans and natives
alike protect themselves by means of mosquito nets only at night.
No effort is made to rid the villages of breeding places for mosquitoes.
I found that one of the main sources of mosquitoes is the large
cement tub or tank that holds the bathing water at every dwelling,
the daily bath being taken by dipping the water out of the tank
with a small bucket and pouring it over the body. The water in
these tanks becomes stagnant, as they seldom go dry, and so becomes
a perfect incubator for mosquitoes. The water as used is replenished

Fic. 66.—Poeloetikus Island, Indian Ocean. (Photograph by Kellers.)

two or three times a week during the dry season from surface
wells, and during the wet season, rain is caught by means of wooden
troughs leading from the roofs.

It is remarkable what cleaning up and proper drainage will do to
eradicate the mosquito. The Kaba Wetan Coffee Plantation, situated
about four kilometers from the astronomical station, is clean and
well drained. The bath house of the manager’s residence is screened,
but there are no screens in the living quarters. It was a pleasure to
remain there and rest without the heavy nets at night. The manager
stated that he seldom had a mosquito in or about the house.

All water used for drinking and domestic purposes comes from
surface wells and the question uppermost in one’s mind is: Has it
been boiled? The day’s drinking water is boiled in the morning and
kept in covered containers until used. The natives are not particular in
regard to the water they drink, and suffer considerably from dysen-
64. SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VOL. 78

tery. At hotels and boarding houses, to be on the safe side, the
Europeans usually drink “Apollinaris ’ to such an extent that it is
called by the natives, “Ayer Blanda,” or white man’s water.

In the department of natural history the natives are quite observant.
Their nomenclature is fairly complete. They possess generic and
specific names, the descriptive names being numerous and often a
source of error. They class all the larger Felidae under the generic
name harimau, and the smaller under the name kuching. They then
designate them by distinct descriptive names. They give the gen-

Fic. 67.—A typical coffee planter’s bungalow, Sumatra. Kaba Wetan Coffee
Plantation, where the mosquito is unknown. See text. (Photograph by
Kellers.)

eric name rusa to the larger deer. They apply one name to the
tapir and rhinoceros, namely, bodak. All of the squirrels are grouped
under the name tupat. All rats and mice are known as toekus, except
the bamboo rat, which is called dkan. The frogs and toads are
classed together under one name, kodok. The names of snakes are
confusing as all are called ular, the specific names being unsatisfactory
from a scientific standpoint.

The tiger is the most feared of the mammals, although statistics
show that crocodiles claim a larger total of victims. In the native
legends and folk-lore, the men inhabiting the Korinchi district of
Sumatra have the power of transforming themselves into tigers.
NO. 7 SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1926 65

os ae :

£ ie
a, PS
ea eae

Fic. 68—The covered wagons of Sumatra bringing in produce for market day.
(Photograph by Kellers.)

Fic. 69.—Market day in Sumatra. Note the Durians in the foreground.
(Photograph by Kellers.)
66 SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VoL. 78

I was told that the natives observe a difference in the methods used
by the tiger and the tigress in killing their prey, the former by
breaking the neck and the latter by biting through it. The other
mammals do not cause any terror among the natives, although many
are dangerous when hunted.

The native Sumatran, whether an orthodox Moslem or not, believes
in spirits both of animate and inanimate objects. On my second
ascent of Mt. Kaba, I met a band of natives on the edge of the

Fic. 70.—Javanese coolies giving an ancient war dance New-year’s day for
the members of the expedition. Note that the horses are constructed of plaited
bamboo and painted. (Photograph by Kellers.)

crater offering up as a sacrifice a white pigeon, sprinkling rice and
water on the ground, and conducting religious ceremonies in order
to invoke the favor of the spirits for bountiful crops and to the
end that their wives would bear numerous offspring. The story of
today of the semi-human ape that is supposed to inhabit the southern
end of the island is nothing more than the old legend of the
Sumatran orang-outang (mawas), a semi-human spirit of great
strength and ferocity.

The present age is one of transition. How long are the old customs
and beliefs to survive? The native Sumatran is being educated, he
reads books, he is taking an interest in newspapers, and he has a good
opinion of himself.
NO. 7 SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1926 67

The Dutch officials and the managers of various coffee plantations
in the vicinity of Kepahiang rendered all the assistance possible to
make the expedition a success. Transportation for freight and person-
nel across and about the island was without cost, and the detailing
of natives to accompany me on my daily collecting trips shows the
interest taken by the Dutch in scientific pursuits. The two trips to
Poeloetikus Island could not have been made except for the courtesy.
of the superintendent of the Dutch Mail Steamship Co., at Benkoelen,

Itc. 71.—A rainy day in Sumatra. Note the basket hats. (Photograph by
Kellers.)

who placed at my disposal a sea-going motor boat and a native
fisherman.

BIOLOGICAL FIELD-WORK IN FLORIDA

During March and April, 1926, I visited northern Florida for
the purpose of making general collections of vertebrates and plants.
Work was carried on at several localities in the region extending
from Gainesville to Cedar Keys. It was mostly of such routine
character as to call for no special comment.

To obtain skeletons of porpoises at Cedar Keys was the chief
object in view. The animals were abundant and fearless, coming
close to the wharves in pursuit of small fish. Here they were
easily shot but less easily recovered owing to the dense opacity ot
68 SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VoL. 78

lic. 72.—Preparing skeleton of porpoise on beach at Cedar Keys, Florida.

Fic. 73—Black Skimmers on beach at Cedar Keys, Florida, showing good
result of local bird protection.
NO.

NI

SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1926 69

ee
%

separa

sepsntisailar

Ic. 74.—Sponge boats and wharf at Cedar Keys, Florida. The
industry is carried on by Greek fishermen.

sponge

Fic. 75.—Sponge boat.
79 SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VOL. 78

Fic. 76.—Building foundations dug in Indian shellheap, Cedar Keys, Florida.

Tic. 77.—Turpentine gatherer. A familiar figure in the pine regions of
Florida.
NO. 7 SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1926 7

the water, a condition locally attributed to the heavily flooded state
of the Suwannee River. The process of skinning and skeletonizing a
porpoise (Tursiops) is shown in one of the photographs.

Cedar Keys is one of the headquarters of the Gulf sponge fishery,
an industry carried on by Greeks. Seaworthy motor boats are used,
the divers working in the open waters of the Gulf of Mexico, and
remaining at sea about a week at a time. It is said that good com-
mercial sponges could formerly be obtained in the waters of Wac-
cassassee Bay; but this supply was long ago exhausted.

The town of Cedar Keys occupies a site famous for its Indian
mounds and shellheaps. Many of the houses rest on foundations
dug into these remnants of a vanished culture.

Gerrit S. MILLER, JR.

Visite TOVA CALIFORNIA WHALING STATION

During the summer of 1920 a joint expedition was made to the
coast region of northern California by the Smithsonian Institution
and the San Diego Society of Natural History, A. Brazier Howell
representing the former and Laurence M. Huey the latter. Oppor-
tunity was taken to make collections of the local mammals and some
things of much interest were secured, including seven specimens of
the rare rodent, Phenacomys albipes, of which but two specimens
had been previously known from California. The main purpose of
the expedition, however, was to secure data, rather than specimens,
regarding the whales and whale fishery at Trinidad, Humboldt
County. This station in summer, and one near Monterey during
the winter, are both operated by the California Sea Products Com-
pany, a concern that has been active in this field for many years.
It is now the only well established whale fishery anywhere on the coast
of the United States, although at least one other has recently started
work.

Whale hunting is a very old industry and hence is of great inter-
est historically, as well as biologically and economically. The early
type of fishery has disappeared never to return because of a number
of reasons, among which are the fact that the more valuable species
have been practically exterminated, leaving the speedier, less valuable
ones which the old-time whalers not only did not want, but could
not catch with the methods then in use; and the adoption of the
present technique, including small, fast steamers and harpoon guns.

The catch at Trinidad consists almost exclusively of finback and
humpback whales, the former reaching a length of about 75 feet
72 SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VOL. 78

IIc. 78—The “ Hercules,” largest of the three whalers, showing harpoon in
position for firing and Captain Lane at the trigger. (Photograph by L. M.
Huey. )

£

m4

Stet

Fic. 79.—Captain Lane at the instant of firing a harpoon into a finback, shown
in line of aim. (Photograph by L. M. Huey.)
NO. 7 SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1926 73

Fic. 80.—The “ Hercules” bringing a finback whale to the station, with the
flukes made fast to the vessel. (Photograph by L. M. Huey.)

Fic. 81.—A large finback at the foot of the slip, ready to be hauled out.
(Photograph by L. M. Huey.)
74 SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VOL. 78

and the latter somewhat less. Each of the three small steamers used
leaves the shore station and cruises usually to a distance from the
coast of 50 miles, remaining out either until a whale is secured or
until the fuel supply needs replenishing—a matter of some three
days. If a whale indicates that it is wary, it is better to waste no

time on it, for with the finback’s maximum speed of better than
30 miles per hour it can play with its pursuer in an exasperating
manner; but a close approach may usually be made, by cautious
maneuvering, permitting a shot at less than 4o yards. If the bomb

lic. 82——The rare California gray whale being hauled up the slip. Note
where sharks have bitten great pieces of blubber from in front of the flukes
and also mutilated the latter after the death of the whale. (Photograph by
L. M. Huey.)

fails to explode or the harpoon, weighing somewhat less than 150
pounds, is placed too far back, a fight of several hours may ensue.
The cetacean may take out a mile of cable and must be as carefully
played as a game fish, for although the line consists of a five-inch
(in circumference) manila hawser with breaking strength of 18,500
pounds, the animal will snap this with ease if too much strain be
applied or too much slack be given. When brought close alongside
it is inflated with air and then may be marked with a flag and left
to float while the vessel continues hunting for some time.

Upon reaching the station in tow of the vessel, a cable is attached
to the tail and the carcass is hauled by steam power up the “ slip”
NO. 7 SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1926 75

to the covered cutting platform, where the blubber near the head
is first loosened by means of huge knives, and then torn off by
cables. The larger muscle masses are similarly treated and the
skeleton disarticulated. The great strips of blubber are cut by hand
into pieces of convenient size and so fed into the blubber cutter, which
consists of a number of sharp blades revolving at high speed. The
resultant sludge is then led to giant, steam-heated vats and the
oil tried out. The lean meat of better quality is cut into slabs and

lic. 83—Head of California gray whale, the animal lying on its back.
Note eye (a), baleen or whalebone (b), and large tongue (c). (Photo-
graph by L. M. Huey.)

placed within large iron retorts in tiers, with iron plates between
each layer, where it is cooked for a number of hours, then dried
and finally ground. The waste, including the blood and viscera,
is dumped into open vats of boiling water and after being cooked.
the oil is separated and the solids dried and ground for fertilizer.
After most of the meat is cut from the bones the latter are also placed
in retorts and cooked. Considerable oil is obtained from them and the
dry bones are then dumped in a pile which grows to large propor-
tions as the season advances. The baleen or ‘“‘ whalebone”’ of this
group of whales is short and coarse and is not at present of com-
mercial value, so it, too, is cooked and ground for fertilizer. The

6
76 SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS voL. 78

Fic. 84—A finback on the slip. Note corrugations in the skin of the
throat which probably permit great expansion during feeding. The spots
on the chin at (a) indicate the positions of short bristles, the last remnant
of a hairy coat. (Photograph by L. M. Huey.)

Fic. 85.—Roof of the mouth, showing baleen plates, and bony part of lower
jaw of a finback, after the corrugated portion of the throat, shown in figure 84,
had been removed. (Photograph by L. M. Huey.)
NOR 7 SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1926 WG

Itc. 86.—Great mass of skeletal bones of whales—the accumulation from
dozens of individuals. (Photograph by L. M. Huey.)

Fic. 87—The western gulls gather by the scores and hundreds, ever hopeful
of snatching bits of blubber and meat. (Photograph by L. M. Huey.)
78 SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VOL. 78

blubber oil is produced in several grades, some being used by manu-
facturers of fine soap, some as lubricants, chiefly in combination
with mineral oil, and still others in the manufacture of certain
foods. The better quality of meat meal is sold as chicken feed, and
the bones are shipped in bulk to Honolulu, where, after being made
into a fine grade of bone black, they are used in the refining of sugars.

The overhead and other expenses of such a plant as that of the
California Sea Products Company are considerable, as it is necessary
to have much machinery of various sorts and large size, and a large
pay roll, which continues alike through times of cetacean plenty or
scarcity. Hence it is necessary that each whale be utilized to as
complete a degree as possible, and in this the company is as successful
as is the case with the proverbial slaughtered pig. And the work
must be done expeditiously, before partial decomposition of the
huge carcass has lowered the quality of blubber and meat. Hence,
in about three hours after being landed the whale has disappeared to
the last shred within vats and retorts.

The prepared products from one whale of average large size may
be worth as much as $2,000 and from this it may be seen that our
whale supply is a matter of economic importance, and not merely
of aesthetic concern to those with emotional tendencies. When whales
have become sufficiently numerous in any district a whaling station
is at once started and invariably this continues operations as long
as whales are to be had in sufficient numbers to offer a margin of
profit, after which the station is abandoned. If whales existed in
paying quantities along any of the remainder of our coasts, there
would be whaling stations there for their capture. In some few
cases the whales will regain a part of their former numerical status,
but in others they can never recover, and in all cases the rarer
species will have been reduced to the point of grave danger. Thus
the gray whale was believed by scientists to be practically extinct
on the west coast of the United States, but the whalers say there
are a very few left, and by great good luck we were at Trinidad
when one of these was secured—the first ever brought to that station
during the six years of its existence. A number of extremely in-
teresting observations, chiefly of an anatomical character, were made
of this specimen, as well as of the commoner species, but it was
saddening to realize that this might possibly be the last such op-
portunity afforded a mammalogist in the United States.

Few naturalists are now so situated as to be able to observe whales
at first hand and it is felt that much of value will result from our
NO. 7 SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1926 79

stay at Trinidad, our work having been facilitated in innumerable
ways by the cordial cooperation of the officials of the California Sea
Products Company.

EXPLORATIONS IN SIAM

Many years ago the Smithsonian Institution received from the
National Institute, in Washington, a collection of about 100 speci-
mens of birds from Prince Momfanoi (also called Chawfanoi) of
Siam, half-brother of the King of that period, and “in truth, right-
ful heir to the throne” according to Dr. Ruschenberger (Voyage
around the World, 1838). He was reported to be an enlightened
man, who loved pets, had many live animals and birds, and had a
museum in which were many stuffed birds and animals, set up
by himself. Due to faulty preservation, a large proportion of the speci-
mens received from Prince Momfanoi have long ago been destroyed
through the ravages of insects, but the record of his gift remains.

From 1896 to 1899, Dr. W. L. Abbott, the veteran explorer, spent
several months of each year working through the province of Trang,
in the peninsular part of Siam, giving the Institution its second col-
lection of birds from that country. Later, in 1914-1916, he supported
Mr. Cecil Boden Kloss in the latter’s exploration of parts of south-
eastern Siam and the Franco-Siamese boundary, which resulted in
over 130 additional birds. In 1916 and 1918, Mr. Kloss visited the
southwestern and other parts of the country, contributing 496 more
specimens. In 1924, over 200 birds were received from Dr. Abbott,
collected by J. H. Chambai and K. G. Gairdner; these were from
south and central Siam. In the same year, Dr. Hugh M. Smith,
while engaged in fisheries investigations for the Siamese govern-
ment, obtained a few specimens in the southern part of the country,
especially from the island of Koh Chang, in the Gulf of Siam,
including a new species of small “ timaline ” bird, Pellorneum smith.

During the years 1925 and 1926, Dr. Smith continued his natural
history work, with the aid of a Dyak collector, and has sent to the
Smithsonian Institution 968 birds from southern and central Siam.
In addition to birds, he has forwarded about 70 skins of mammals,
several hundred mollusks, crustaceans, fishes, reptiles, and ethnologi-
cal material. Dr. Paul Bartsch, curator of mollusks, says, ‘ Dr.
Hugh M. Smith’s work in Siam has enabled him to make distinct
contributions in the field of mollusks. I feel sure that quite a few
new species and races will eventually be described when this material
is worked over with a fine-tooth comb. All of it fills a decided
80 SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VOL. 78

gap in the collection, for prior to Dr. Smith’s enterprise few mol-
lusks from that region were found in our collection. The sendings
in 1924 amounted to almost 2,000 specimens, while during the present
year over a thousand specimens have been received, among them
two new species of shipworms as well as other novelties not yet fully
determined.”

Count Nils Gyldenstolpe, a Swedish naturalist, has recently pub-
lished a list of the birds of Siam, enumerating about 730 species and
subspecies, of which 113 are water birds and waders, the remainder
land birds. The list is confessedly only an incomplete one, for much
additional ornithological work must be done before the birds of
Siam may be regarded as well known.

Among the birds sent in by Dr. Smith is a specimen of the Open-
bill or “ Shell ibis”? (Anastomus oscitans), a remarkable species of
stork, peculiar for the character of the bill, which is said to be “ the
result of wear, caused by the shells of the mollusca, on which the
bird feeds.’ In the young bird the lines of the bill are straight, and
show no gaping space as in the adult. Several species of fruit
pigeons are represented in the collection, a group of birds usually
of bright colors, green predominating in many of the species. They
are native to the Eastern Hemisphere, a few species in Africa, an
increasing number in southern Asia, with the majority in the Dutch
East Indies and Polynesia. About 13 species have been recorded
from Siam, of which five are restricted to the northern parts of
that country.

BREEDING EXPERIMENTS WITH CERIONS

Dr. Paul Bartsch, curator of mollusks, U. S. National Museum,
spent the period from August 10 to August 21 at the Tortugas and
from August 21 to August 24 examining the Cerion colonies planted
on keys between the Tortugas and Miami. An examination of the
small island colonies yield the following results :

Island 1. Twenty-five Cerion incanum and 25 of a new species of
Cerion with spiral sculpture were planted here 2 years ago. Last
year, 22 of the imcanum were found dead; this year no additional
specimens of this species were noted. Of the Cerion new species, 18
were dead last year and 1 dead and 2 living this year, which accounts
for 21 out of 25 of these specimens. The missing individuals may
be buried in the sand, dead or alive, or they may have been carried
away by some agency as, for example, the little Sparrow Hawk,
which occasionally indulges in that pastime. In this island were
NO. 7 SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1926 81

Fic. 89.—Dr. Bartsch coming up with the diving helmet just removed.
(Enlargement from movie film.)
SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VOL. 78

Fic. 90.—A general undersea view showing a field of Gorgonians.
(Enlargement from movie film.)

° . ae
é +

Fic. 91—Gorgonians and Goat fishes. (Enlargement from movie film.)

NO. 7 SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1926 83

also found a number of quite young shells, too young to determine
their relationship at this time. Dr. Bartsch therefore refrained
from seriously disturbing the sand for fear of exposing these small
creatures to unfavorable stresses.

Island 2. In this were planted, 2 years ago, 25 Cerion incanunt
and 25 Cerion chrysalis. Last year 11 of the Cerion incanum were
found dead and this year 4 dead and 1 living, accounting for 16
of the planted specimens. Of the Cerion chrysalis, 12 were found
dead last year ; to this were added 4 this year and 2 living individuals,
which accounts for 18 of the 25 planted. Here, too, small young
were in evidence.

Island 3. On this island were planted, 2 years ago, 25 Cerion
incanum and 25 Cerion mumnua. Last year 16 dead of Cerion incanum
and this year 2 dead and 5 living were recovered. Of Cerion mumimua
17 were found dead last year and 1 this year, and 1 living. All
but 2 of the Cerion incanum are therefore accounted for in this
island. Here, too, some young were present, and the interesting
observation was made of finding a specimen of Cerion incanum
mating with a Cerion mummua.

Island 4. Here were planted, 2 years ago, 25 Cerion incanum and
25 Cerion tridentatum. Of these, 13 Cerion incanum were found
dead last year and 3 this year, and 2 living. Of the Cerion tridentatum,
10 were found dead last year and 3 this year, and 10 were living.
No young were observed.

In the 8 small islands, all the adults seem to have died, but
small young are present in some, which makes it wise to leave them
undisturbed for another year as these may prove to be the desired
hybrids. However an additional marked specimen of Cerion incanum
and Cerion viaregis were added on each island.

Last year some of the old wooden cages were cut down to mere
4-inch base boards which were partly buried and fastened securely
to the ground. To the free edge of each, which projects some
3 inches above the ground, a narrow strip of monel wire was
tacked, bending inward to prevent the escape of the mollusks.

In each of these cages a specimen of Cerion incanum and Cerion
viaregis was placed. Upon examining these inclosures this year, most
of the shells were found dead and many were crushed, the damage
probably having been done by rats. Each of these 75 cages were re-
stocked with a marked specimen of Cerion incanum and Cerion
viaregis.
84 SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VOL. 78

Fic. 92.—Yellow-Tail and Slippery Dicks, and Sea Urchins. (Enlargement
from movie film.)

Fic. 93.—Hogfish. (Enlargement from movie film.)
NO. 7 SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1926 85

Ftc. 94.—A school of Gray Snappers. (Enlargement from movie film.)

Fig. 95—A school of Grunts and Gray Snappers. (Enlargement from
movie film.)
86 SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VoL. 78

The two original colonies of Cerions, namely, Cerion viaregis and
Cerion casablancae, are simply swarming in their respective places and
gradually spreading over adjacent territory.

The colony of Cerion uva from Curacoa is gradually passing out,
but it was a surprise to find that the colony of Cerion crassilabre,
which was in bad shape a year ago, was not at all on the verge of
extinction, but yielded sufficient material to give complete measure-
ments of all the characters of enough specimens to complete the
hundred series of both the first and second generations of Florida-
grown individuals. This again shows that it is not safe to estimate
the strength of a colony merely from the appearance of material
above the surface of the sand, for Cerions under certain conditions
have a way of disappearing beneath the surface and thus hiding
themselves from view.

The huge colony of Cerions, brought from the Island of San
Salvador and planted on the east side of the laboratory, does not
appear to have found the habitat a suitable one, for there is an
endless number of dead strewn about the ground, but not a single
living specimen was seen.

The colonies planted on the rampart of Fort Jefferson 2 years
ago are holding their own.

On the way north, September 21, a stop was made at Boca Grande
Key where it was found that the part of the key bearing the plantings
was again burnt over, and the same fate has overtaken the colonies
which had been planted on Man Key, Boy Key, Woman Key, and
Girl Key:

On September 22 a visit to the two plantings in the grounds of
the U. S. Bureau of Fisheries Station at Key West showed both colo-
nies doing fairly well.

On September 22, the Anton Dohrn was left at Newfound Harbor
Key, and a visit made to the keys containing Cerion colonies between
Key West and Miami. The hybrid colony on Newfound Harbor
Key was doing splendidly. The last hurricane had not seriously
damaged it. Some additional variant specimens were taken to Wash-
ington for dissections. This colony, as well as experiences on other
islands, shows plainly the desirability of placing colonies not on un-
occupied keys but, if possible, to select ground for them near some
house where the people will take an interest in the experiment and
see that the ground is protected against fire.

Bahia Honda, where the colony of Cerion casablancae was placed in
1912, was next visited. The hurricane some years later had cut the
ground, where the original colony was planted, to such an extent
NO. 7 SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1926 87

that it was felt that it had been wiped out. Examination after the
hurricane gave no indication of its survival, but this year’s visit
showed that it not only had survived, but was flourishing and
spreading.

An examination of Duck Key, where a colony of Cerion viaregis
had been planted in 1912, showed that the tall, dense grass and cac-
tus, which had usurped the places of planting, still prevailed to such
an extent that no specimens were visible.

lic. 96.—Albino Noddy Tern, on Bird Key.

On September 23 Indian Key was visited and it was found that
the colony of Cerion casablancae, which on our last visit seemed
to be on the verge of extinction, was flourishing and doing well.
There were enough specimens to warrant taking a series to Wash-
ington for measurement.

The colony of Cerion viaregis, planted on the adjacent Tea Table
Key in 1912, failed to show a single specimen.

On September 25 a stop was made at Sands Key and Ragged
Keys where plantings were made in 1912, but here, dredgings, fill-
ings-in, human activity in general, and hurricanes have so over-
whelmed the place that not a trace of any of these colonies was appar-
ent. With the rapid spread of habitation in this neglected region of
VOL. 78

SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS

88

“KVP pvaysVssSo7] uO sulay jsvay] pue yoetg fo dnois Vey AOU |

NO. 7 SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1926 89

Florida it will be possible to secure the sympathy of interested peo-
ple to make further plantings among these keys and to have them
secure from harm.

During the trip northward from Key West to Miami stops were
made at a number of places not before visited and collections of
the native Cerion incanum were obtained.

At the Tortugas Dr. Bartsch exposed 2,400 feet of moving-
picture film among the coral reefs undersea, securing a series of
pictures showing faunal associations of marine organisms im sitit.

As in former years, Dr. Bartsch kept account of the birds ob-
served at the Tortugas from day to day, as well as on the other keys
visited.

SLUD YO PoE CRUSTACEANS @F SOUTH AMERICA:

As noted in the Smithsonian Exploration Pamphlet for 1925,’
Dr. Waldo L. Schmitt, curator of the division of marine invertebrates,
U.S. National Museum, the holder of the Walter Rathbone Bacon
Travelling Scholarship, visited South America for the purpose
of studying the crustacean fauna of the continent. His activities from
August 1 until November 2, 1925, when he arrived at Itajahy,
Brazil, were reported on last year. After a short sojourn at that
port, he proceeded to Florianopolis, Brazil, where he made valuable
collections. He next visited Montevideo, Uruguay, arriving No-
vember 10. Here Dr. Schmitt met Dr. Florentino Felippone, a cor-
respondent of the U. S. National Museum, who showed him every
courtesy and aided his work in many ways. Here also, through the
assistance of Senor Tremolaras, arrangements were made for ob-
taining rheas for the National Zoological Park at Washington. He
arrived at Buenos Aires, Argentina, December 14 and procured from
the Buenos Aires Museum the loan of a valuable collection of
crustacea. At this point it was found impracticable to proceed to
Punta Arenas, Chile, as he had planned. On January 19 he returned
to Santos, Brazil, and went by train to Sao Paulo where he visited
the Instituto Butantan and obtained a collection of living Brazilian
reptiles. On January 21 he embarked at Rio de Janeiro for New
York, where he arrived February 1.

This year Dr. Schmitt is devoting his studies chiefly to the west
coast. He left New York August 19, arriving at Cristobal, at the
Caribbean entrance to the Panama Canal, August 25. At Panama
Dr. Schmitt had the pleasure of meeting Mr. James Zetek, resident

*Smithsonian Misc. Coll., Vol. 78, No. I, pp. 40-44.
go SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VOL. 78

custodian of the laboratory at Barro Colorado Island, who in the
past has sent many valuable specimens to the National Museum.
The ship left Balboa on August 26, and reached Salaverry, Peru,
August 30. As hotel accommodations were not to be had there, Dr.
Schmitt was obliged to move a short distance up the coast to Tru-
jillo, where Mr. Sears, the agent for the Grace Lines, generously
offered to take him into his own residence. The offer was accepted,
and during his stay at Trujillo Dr. Schmitt enjoyed the most gen-
erous hospitality of a delightful private home. In regard to the
climate he remarks, “ You will not believe it, but it is like a cold
California night. I am sitting here with my hat and overcoat on so
as to keep warm enough to write. What will working in the water
be like? I’m told the Humboldt current off the coast of Peru is
way out of its course ; that while it usually turns out to sea off Talara,
it is now running way up into the Gulf of Panama; that it affects
(kills) the supply of fish and has driven the pelicans up off the
California coast in the vicinity of the Catalina Islands where as it
is said here, they were never known to occur before. The heavier
rains resulting from the shift of the Humboldt current have washed
out a lot of land and killed off much of the marine life. The hotel
at Salaverry was washed half full of sand by the last wet season’s
rains, thus the lack of accommodations.”

Dr. Schmitt left Salaverry September 1 for Guayaquil, where he
arrived September 4. He states that there is much more English
spoken on this coast of South America than upon the east coast
where he visited last year, and that there is a great deal of Ameri-
can machinery used everywhere. At three places along the route while
the boat stopped to take on cargoes of sugar, he succeeded by means
of his bottom sampler in getting. mud samples. Guayaquil has but
one fairly paved street, the main one running from the water front
to the main Plaza. Dr. Schmitt finds that great quantities of
shrimps and two species of crabs are sold in the markets of Guaya-
quil. A species of Callinectes much like our blue crab of the
Chesapeake, and a red Ucides, a land crab, appear to be the only
two species used as food. He says, “ Oysters are very plentiful,
but with all the hundreds of thousands that must have been shucked
by the men with whom we had converse, none had ever seen a
crab in an oyster.”

After a week’s unavoidable delay, Dr. Schmitt finally reached
Santa Elena, which is on the coast directly west of Guayaquil. Col-
lecting here was excellent, but dredging was impossible as the only
two motor boats of the place were laid up, and the only other avail-
INO) 7 SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1926 gI

able boats were the native dugouts. A number of species of crabs
and shrimps were taken here, some of which Dr. Schmitt believes
will prove to be new. A most interesting assemblage or association
of marine animals was found to be inhabiting old worm galleries.
Dr. Schmitt thought the coast around Santa Elena, if he could have
given the time to it, would probably have proved to support the
richest fauna of all the regions that he had visited in the past two
years, but his time being limited, he was obliged to return to Guaya-
quil on September 19. He says, “ We started early Sunday morning
and between auto and train were under way from 6 a. m. to 7 p. m.

Fic. 98.—Paita, Peru, showing the rocky nature of the coast.

just covering go miles of country. It took us two hours to make
the last 20 miles.”” Dr. Schmitt had hoped to visit Quito, but owing
to the great loss of time in getting to and from Santa Elena he
found it impossible. While at Guayaquil, Dr. Schmitt did some
excellent collecting in the so-called’ Salada, an arm of the ocean which
reaches up behind the city. There the black flies were a terrible
torment, and he suffered severely from their attacks, but to offset
in a measure this inconvenience he procured a species of Upogebia,
the little shrimp that bores holes in rocks. This genus of shrimps
had not until then been found on the west coast of South America.
Here also were taken some pinnotherid crabs which are symbiotic
in the shells of mollusks.

He left Guayaquil October 3 and arrived at Paita, Peru, late the
same day. He says, “ Here we drop into a holiday in memory of

7
Q2 SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS WO 78

San Francisco de Assisi. The holiday alone would not keep me out
of work, but the Custom House was open only to let our stuff in.
We arrived on the fourth, and the fiesta of San Francisco lasted
two days, the 4th and 5th. And today the fisherman, families, etc.,
are resting up.’’ Collecting proved to be very good here, and much
fine material was procured from a point of rock jutting out into the
water, and from a fine reef well north of Paita.

Dr. Schmitt left Paita October 15 and arrived at Salaverry Octo-
ber 17. Here the coast is just a bold surf-beaten headland with huge
unmovable boulders. At low tide the collecting was good, and the

Ite. 99.-Chorillos, a suburb of Lima, Peru, showing the cliffs at the water’s
edge which are in some places 200 feet high.

exposed beach yielded many invertebrates. Here also worm tubes
were found to contain interesting and valuable specimens of crustacea
and other forms. He found here a genus of shrimps not before
reported from the Peruvian coast, and also procured a fine series
of fresh-water shrimps.

On October 25 he left Salaverry, Peru, and reached Callao early
the next morning. The Ambassador, Mr. Poindexter, procured him
a pass to San Lorenzo Island, the naval base in Callao Bay. He made
several collecting trips to the island and secured many amphipods
and some remarkable porcellanid crabs, which live on the under
side of a sea urchin. The fine material obtained here shows how
much zoological work is yet to be done on this coast.
NO. 7 SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1920 93

When last heard from, Dr. Schmitt was on his way to Valparaiso,
Chile, where he expected to arrive on the 18th of November. From
there he will proceed to Buenos Aires and then to his destination,
Punta Arenas, Chile. Several cases of specimens have already arrived
at the Museum.

INVESTIGATION OF THE AMPHIPODA OF THE TORTUGAS

Mr. Clarence R. Shoemaker, assistant curator of marine inverte-
brates, U. S. National Museum, spent the period from July 13 to

Fic. 100.—Fort Jefferson, Garden Key. Many amphipods and isopods were
obtained from the rich growth of algae, hydroids and ascidians upon the
wall of the old moat. (Photograph by Shoemaker.)

August 20, 1926, at the Carnegie Marine Laboratory, Dry Tortugas,
investigating the Amphipoda of the keys. While studying the collec-
tions sent to the Museum by former investigators at the Laboratory,
so many new and interesting forms were observed that it was thought
advisable to spend some time at the Laboratory making as thorough
a survey as possible of the amphipod fauna.

The waters surrounding most of the principal keys, and also the
water of the moat at Fort Jefferson, were exhaustively examined.
Pelagic species were scarce, but algae and old coral-rocks yielded
many forms and almost countless numbers of individuals. Many
O4 SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VOL. 78

of the species, as is usually the case in tropical waters, are very small,
so that even sorting the specimens into the different kinds proves to
be a long and somewhat tedious process, but enough has already
been accomplished to show that many additional new forms have been
discovered, and that the range of many species has been greatly
extended. Some of the species were found to be very vividly and
beautifully colored, while the coloration of others seemed to be of
a protective nature, exactly matching their surroundings.

In order to escape their principal enemy, the fish, amphipods avail

Fic. 101.—Bush Key Reef. The abundant marine algae at the edge of
this reef afford protection to innumerable amphipods and isopods. (Photo-
graph by Shoemaker.)

themselves of the shelter of old coral-rocks which have been tunneled
and bored by other marine organisms. The cavities in sponges and
the interstices of algae also afford them the necessary protection.
“ach of these locations yielded many specimens which when finally
identified will, with those already known to occur, probably be an
almost complete list of the species inhabiting the waters of the
Tortugas.

ENTOMOLOGICAL TRIP TO GUATEMALA

Dr. J. M. Aldrich, associate curator, division of insects, U. 5.
National Museum, went to Guatemala for the purpose of increasing
95

SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1926

IN

NO.

‘eyeuloyenr)
‘ensisiin() Iesu JusWMUOW eARIY— EOI “DIA

"eyewuajzeny
‘uoljejueld Iesns uo jnYy 9sAVeN—'ZOI ‘OKT

g6 SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VOL. 78

the Museum collection of tropical muscoid flies, while at the same
time collecting such other insects as could be obtained. He left
Washington on the last day of March for New Orleans, where he
took the United Fruit Company’s steamship for Puerto Barrios,
arriving there April 7, and continuing by train to Guatemala City
the same day.

He made his headquarters in that city for about a month, taking
trips to the Mexican border at Ayutla, to the Pacific Coast at San
José, to Antigua, to the interior lowland at Quirigua, and some nearer
places. In the immediate vicinity at Guatemala City the collecting
was poor in April, as it was in the latter part of the dry season.

ba PS se

Fic. 104.—Milhtary headquarters on plaza in Coban, Guatemala.

Numerous courtesies were extended to Dr. Aldrich by the Agri-
cultural Department of Guatemala, especially by the Director-Gen-
eral, Mr. J. G. Salas. The Department was at the time very much
concerned with an outbreak of the migratory locust and had reared
some parasites, which Dr. Aldrich was able to identify. This locust
is a great pest of agriculture from Southern Mexico to Argentina,
and there was much interest in its parasites. These, it happens,
belong to a group of flies which Dr. Aldrich has studied extensively.

About May first the Minister of Agriculture proposed that Dr.
Aldrich give up his plans for collecting in the western part of the
country and join a government party in a trip to Coban for the
purpose of making investigations on the locusts and their parasites
and meeting a similar investigating party coming over from Mexico,
As it seemed possible that some important information regarding
INO: 7 SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1926 Q7

ea wr

Fic. 105.—Morazan, Guatemala. Approaching the plaza.

Fic. 106.—Scene in market, Guatemala City.
98 SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VOL. 78

the parasites might be obtained, Dr. Aldrich acceded to this request,
and made a journey on muleback of about 100 miles to the interior
town of Coban, where he remained Io days. Unfortunately he was
prevented by illness from doing as much work as anticipated, al-
though continuing to collect flies in the vicinity of the town. The
Mexican party was not heard from; and as soon as able Dr. Aldrich
returned to the Atlantic Coast by way of the Polochic River, coming
out at Livingston. He reached Washington June 6.

While the dry weather and change of plans interfered greatly with
the expected results of the trip, a considerable number of speci-
mens were collected and some discoveries of importance were made
on grasshopper parasites.

The cordial relations which were established with the Guatemala
Department of Agriculture, The International Health Board, the
United Fruit Company, and with individuals, will no doubt be of
value in future work.

COLLECTING AND REARING FRUIT FLIES IN PANAMA

On March 6, 1926, Mr. Chas. T. Greene, assistant custodian of
diptera, U. S. National Museum, sailed from New York for Cristo-
bal (Colon) Panama, on the Steamer Ancon. His primary object
was to collect and rear the fruit flies of the genus Anastrepha in
order to associate their larvae and pupae with the adults and to get
all the information possible on their immature stages, as well as to rear
any other flies which he might deem of economic importance. This
work was carried on at the request of the Federal Horticultural
Board. Ancon, Canal Zone, located at the Pacific end of the canal,
was selected as Mr. Greene’s headquarters because the United States
government has a well equipped laboratory or experiment station
there. He remained in Panama until May 27, sailing on that day
for New York.

During his trip Mr. Greene visited several places on the Pacific
and Atlantic coast of Panama, searching for fruit flies, and col-
lected at several places along the Panama railroad which follows
the canal across the Isthmus. All of the localities visited yielded
valuable information on the fruit flies.

The three species of Anastrepha of economic importance were
reared from native fruits and their immature stages are associated.
The results will be published in the near future. Numerous other
species of flies were reared and notes made on their immature stages
in connection with this work. A large number of other species of
NO.

SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1926 99

N

Peas — ee =
Fo) _ eS

a

~<a <
I= esteem eo
Aiea
=

Ftc. 107.—Boat landing and laboratory at Barro Colorado Island.

Fic. 108.—Entrance to one of the large trails on the island.
TOO SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VOL. 78

diptera were collected and many are new to our National Collection.
Some insects of the other orders also were captured and brought back
to the Museum.

One of the most interesting places which Mr. Greene visited in
Panama was Barro Colorado Island. This large island of about
six square miles is in the Panama Canal and located about half-
way between the Atlantic and Pacific Oceans. Animal and bird life
on this island is protected, and the abundant insect life makes it

&

Fic. 109.—Central Avenue, main business street in Panama City.

almost a paradise for the collector. Mr. Greene caught a large num-
ber of interesting species during his several visits to this island.

There is a large well-equipped laboratory on the island with facili-
ties for studying and for lodging. Several large trails lead in vari-
ous directions from the laboratory, but otherwise the jungle is

undisturbed.

EXPLORING FOR FERNS IN THE BLUE MOUNTAINS OF JAMAICA

With the object of obtaining additional material needed in pre-
paring a descriptive account of the fern flora of Jamaica, Dr. William
R. Maxon, associate curator of plants in the U. S. National Museum,
spent the months of June and July, 1926, in botanical exploration
NO. 7 SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1926 IOI

in that island, paying particular attention to certain areas in the
difficult Blue Mountain region, which rises to nearly 7,500 feet.

The ferns of Jamaica were among the first to be described from
the New World, but in many instances the names originally given
them came later to be applied loosely to related but distinct kinds
from other regions, with much resulting confusion. To afford
a proper basis for studying the diverse fern floras of tropical America
as a whole, it thus becomes of prime importance to know thoroughly
that of Jamaica, an end that can be attained, naturally, only with the
aid of adequate material.

Of the 500 species of ferns and fern allies described or known
from Jamaica nearly all are found in recent large collections brought
to American herbaria from that island; yet there are a few collected
by Sir Hans Sloane in the latter part of the seventeenth century,
and by Swartz about a hundred years later, that still are known only
from the original specimens preserved in European museums. Pres-
ent field-work is concerned therefore in the re-discovery of these
“lost” species and of other very rare ones described more
recently, but equally also in the discovery of new kinds, and in
assembling data as to the distribution, characteristic habitats, habits
of growth, and inter-relationship of those other species that are
comparatively well known.

The equable temperatures and surpassing beauty of the Blue
Mountains are proverbial. What is not appreciated by the traveler
or the novice in botanical collecting is that the absence of springs
and streams above 5,000 feet, the almost complete lack of trails and
habitations, the steep, often precipitous character of the forested
rocky inclines, and extremely fickle weather conditions make ex-
ploration difficult and laboriously slow. Approach must be through
the drier coffee-producing regions on the south side of the range,
except for two trails that cross at either end, nearly 25 miles apart;
the wet northern slopes, from 1,500 feet to the top of the higher
peaks, present an unbroken forest which can hardly be easier of
penetration today than at the time of discovery.

It happens thus that our knowledge of the high mountain fern
flora—which invariably in tropical regions is more luxuriant and
diverse than that found at low elevations—is based mainly upon
material collected on several peaks and in a few high passes near
the former botanical station at Cinchona (5,000 feet) and on Blue
Mountain Peak itself. The extremely rugged eastern end of the
range and almost the whole heavily wooded north slope, with its
MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VOL. 78

SMITHSONIAN

102

gh

(‘uosuyof *S uevounq Aq ydeis0joyg) 342] 94} 4e sory SURWISSOF, :punorsyoeq oy} Ul UMOYS o7e YoTyM

JO [eroAas ‘syvod YsIy 94} JO IAsltopVsVYD SI jsa10J MOT dsuap IY “Yeeqg uleyuNoy onfq wo1y psemysom SUIYOOT—OII “DI,T

%

tf ys Fi 2
< i a ’
INOS 7 SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1926 103

deep, wet, hothouse valleys, have scarcely been touched; and this
notwithstanding the work done by a host of collectors.

Accordingly, except for a few days of collecting in the denuded
Port Royal Mountains, the region of Mount Diablo, the famous
Fern Gully, and several localities reached readily from Kingston,
effort was centered by Dr. Maxon at two points in the Blue Mountain
range: Cuna Cuna, and the high peaks east and west of Port-
land Gap.

The Cuna Cuna region, which takes its name from a low gap
(about 2,400 feet), lies at the eastern end of the Blue Mountain range

-

Fic. 111.—The fern collection about to leave House Hill, at the edge of the
little-known Cuna Cuna region, facetiously dubbed “ Back of Beyond.”

and is traversed by a passable trail, upon which, however, there is
no shelter. By good fortune it was possible to establish headquarters
at House Hill, an estate lying southwest of the Gap at about 1,500
feet, in the lee of the range; and from this point many trips were
taken to the Gap itself and to several of the neighboring peaks at
3,000 to 3,500 feet elevation—Gossamer Peak, Stone Hole Bump,
Maccasucker Bump—all of them previously unexplored. The region
is even wetter than the high peaks, an annual rainfall of 200 inches
being by no means uncommon, and the luxuriance and variety of
the fern flora, especially along the wet culminating crests and in
the deep forested ravines, rich beyond all expectation, for so low
an altitude. A most interesting feature here was the occurrence,
VOL. 78

CTIONS

OUS COLLI

MISCELLANE

SMITHSONIAN

Aq ydeisojoy )
yeog S,uewssoyy

(‘uosuyof *S urdung
‘QayOO 0} payur[d svaie parespd ATMoU 1B pUNOISII1OF oY} UL Sayed seq YL “WYSIT oy} ye sol]
‘BUOYIUL) WOI, JsvayJIoU Suryoo, ssues ureyunoyy emy_ pejsoso}y AIAvoy “uleut oy L— eI “Oly

NO. 7 SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1926 105
often in abundance, of a considerable number of ferns known
previously only from the higher peaks to the westward at nearly
twice the altitude. One day was given also to collecting in the isolated
John Crow range, at a point opposite Mill Bank. The period of three
weeks spent in exploring from House Hill was exceedingly produc-
tive, and thanks are gratefully tendered to the owner, Mr. C. E.
Randall, and his family, for much cordial assistance, without which
the work could scarcely have been carried out.

In the latter part of June Dr. Maxon joined a party of botanists
at Abbey Green, a famous coffee property at about 4,000 feet, which

Fic. 113.—A “close-up interior” of tropical rain forest. Portland Gap. The
ferns shown (Elaphoglossum) have simple stiff leaves, in strong contra t to
the more usual lacy kinds.

had been leased by Prof. Duncan S. Johnson, of The Johns Hopkins
University, and from this point, which lies 1,500 feet below Portland
Gap, carried out intensive exploration of the higher peaks and ridges.
Of especial interest was the ascent of Mossman’s Peak (about 6,400
feet), lying just west of Portland Gap and hitherto unexplored, and
the collection of large series of specimens upon the eastern and
southwestern slopes of the mountain and at a high pass to the
westward, known locally as “ Main Ridge Gap.” This whole upper
region is densely forested and extremely humid. Fortunately a
comparative drought prevailed at the time, allowing almost continuous
work, and many rare and little known ferns were collected in quantity.
In a deep pocket on the northeastern slope of Mossman’s, filmy ferns
(‘uosuyof ‘S Uuvound Aq ydeisojoyd ) JSIOMUJNOS *9duUR}sSIP JY} UL SuTeJUNOTV [eAOY J10q 94} JO
sadojs papnusp dsoqs 94} YIM ‘der) puryjs10g JO YINOs UoIsa41 SuIonpoid-sayoo oy} JO MatA Surusow A[Iwa uy—TF11 ao) i |

VOL. 78

OUS COLLECTIONS

{oa

=LLA

MISCI

SMITHSONIAN

100
NO. 7 SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1926 107

Fic. 115.—Entrance to a deep forest ravine in the higher Blue Mountains ;
the tree ferns are characteristic. ( Photograph by Duncan S. Johnson.)

8
108

SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS

SS oie

NG

WO)

ea

Blue

1p,

1d

S

Morce’

near

forest

h by Dunean S. Johnson. )

wet

111

a
pi
~~
Si
=
()
cE
°
—
‘2
ba
BA
a
Pas
es
& op
4 Oo
Uw
4H O
=
a=
os PY
tre) i
wo
st
ane
Us
t
ere
oie
ro
48
ise)
=
a)
Bu
=e
A
S
oO Nn
a
=
aes
ad
fe)
—a
Bats
ome)
er
jo) OF
)
5
ae)
er
Sas
Z
OQ
a,
=
a
a
uv
Vv
nH

Lehre, ayes
NO. 7 SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1926 109

(Hymenophyllaceae) were found in extraordinary abundance not
elsewhere equaled.

To the east of Portland Gap similar exploration was carried out
all the way along the trail to Blue Mountain Peak, the most extended
trip being one of three days to the Peak itself (7,428 feet) and the

Frc. 117—One of the rare tree ferns (Cyathea Harristi),
known only from the summit of Blue Mountain Peak.
(Photograph by Alexander F. Skutch.)

deep forest sink between that and Sugarloaf Peak. Here a number
of locally endemic ferns were collected, and observations made that
will be of decided value in future exploration of the heavily forested
northern slopes. At the Peak the panorama in all directions unfolds
superbly, and one better realizes from the extremely broken topog-
raphy why progress in exploration has been so slow. From this great
height the sea, to north and south, lies only 12 or 13 miles away.
(‘uosuyof ‘Ss ueoung Aq ydeisojoydg) ‘ssuruodo jsat0f Ul saseq 991} WOT} SasseU UI Ajdun] Suey ‘suo] joof# e Jnoqe
‘spuosf ATTOOM AvIS-AUME] DY] “SUILJUNOPY eN| JOST ot} Ul UOWWIOD *(MNIILAIIS uungpAyYqdouaumnr FF) Ula} AWY W—QII “OT

VoL. 78

n
A
©
ke
isa
O
23
4
=
ie)
oO
n
2)
le)
Q
Z
<
4
4

4

MISCEI

MITHSONIAN

NO. 7 SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1926 111

The present field-work was made possible through the allotment
of a grant by the American Association for the Advancement of
Science, a contribution from the New York Botanical Garden, and
the hearty cooperation of the United Fruit Company. In all, about
15,000 botanical specimens were collected, representing 2,050 col-
lecting numbers, and in addition a few other miscellaneous natural
history specimens. The fern material will assist greatly in the pro-
jected manuscript, which is planned for publication by the British
Museum. It is to be hoped that means will be found for continuing
the Jamaican exploration, which, in spite of work already done,
offers as fascinating an opportunity of botanical field-work as may
be imagined.

BOTANICAL FIELD-WORK IN PANAMA AND COSTA RICA

In November, 1925, Mr. Paul C. Standley, associate curator, divi-
sion of plants, U. S. National Museum, spent three weeks in the
Canal Zone, in continuance of his previous studies upon the flora,
as a result of which there is now ready for publication an account
of the plant life of the Isthmus. At the invitation of Dr. Thomas
Barbour and Mr. James Zetek a week was spent on Barro Colorado
Island in Gattin Lake at the Laboratory for Tropical Research directed
by the National Research Council.

This island, about six square miles in extent and for the greater
part heavily forested, was set aside four years ago as a reservation
for the wild life of the Canal Zone. The heavy rainfall, sometimes
as much as 30 inches per month, is favorable to a luxuriant plant
growth. The huge trees, of great variety, are loaded with aroids,
bromeliads, orchids, and other epiphytes, affording a rich field for
the study of these groups. Mr. Standley collected about 500 specimens,
and has prepared for publication a list of the plants known from the
island, amounting to about 600 species.

From the first of December until early April Mr. Standley was
engaged in botanical work in Costa Rica. Nearly a month was
devoted to exploration of the region of Santa Maria de Dota in
south-central Costa Rica. Santa Maria, situated at an elevation of
5,000 feet, is surrounded on all sides by high mountains. Originally
they were covered with dense oak forest, but much of this has been
cut to permit cultivation. Inasmuch as the region was practically
unknown botanically, it yielded a rich harvest of new or otherwise
interesting plants. Of special interest were several sphagnum bogs
lying at a considerable elevation in the dense forest, in which grow
VOL. 78

CTIONS

{

MISCELLANEOUS COLLE

SMITHSONIAN

I12

(‘tour \ “FY Aq ydeasojyoyg) ‘sjurjd Cso][ealfy, Zaurory

snoaoeqiay snonoidsuod sow oy} o1e (,, seuBUeG ‘W Aq ydeisojoyg) ‘azis jeimjeu jyey ynoqy
P[EM ,,) SBIMOT[aFT “VIN eISOD JO ysvod INHURTLY ‘pad SIAMOPY “BY vISOD Ul UMOIS (MUDUMAIyID
dy} JO Spue[MO] JaM IY} UL 9Ua9GS—OZI “DIY wnmprydidsy) snjoeo oykydid9 uy—61I ‘DI

INO M7 SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1926 113

many plants of South American types, nearly all of them new to
Central America. New Year’s eve was spent in a little cabin on the
Cerro de las Vueltas, at an altitude of 10,000 feet. This mountain
and the near-by Cerro de la Muerte (Mountain of Death) are unique
in Central America, but are similar to many regions of great extent
existing in the Andes of northern South America. The top of the
Cerro de las Vueltas is an extensive tableland, partly forested but
consisting chiefly of the type of grassland known in South America
as paramo. In these paramos the vegetation consists principally of a
velvety sward of fine grass one to two inches high, in which are

eee { : : A
\ \ ‘ ss —

Tic. 121—The volcano of Irazu, Costa Rica, in eruption. (Photograph by
H. Wimmer. )

scattered many small plants which are essentially alpine, such as
buttercups, violets, gentians, and other groups well represented in
the mountains of the United States. Barberry bushes are common
in some places, but the most remarkable plant is a giant dock
(Rumer) 10 to 15 feet high. At this altitude the nights are very cold,
owing to the combination of rain, fog, and wind. Ice a quarter of an
inch thick forms frequently.

After leaving Santa Maria, a month was spent in company with
Prof. Juvenal Valerio at Tilaran, in the Province of Guanacaste near
the Nicaraguan frontier, a part of Costa Rica in which no plants
had been collected previously. Tilaran lies at the foot of the cordillera
bearing the same name. This range of mountains, one of the most
reduced sections of the great backbone of the American continent,
114 SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VOL. 78

is only 2,500 feet high, but since it is the continental divide, separat-
ing the wet Atlantic slope from the comparatively arid Pacific slope,
it influences to a remarkable degree the local distribution of the
plants. Ordinarily a locality of Pacific Central America with such
slight elevation as Tilaran (1,800 feet) would have a hot dry cli-
mate; but the rain-laden clouds of the Atlantic plains force their
way westward over the crest of the cordillera and reach as far as
Tilaran before they are dissipated. At Tilaran it is nearly always
raining or misting, even when the sun is shining brightly. This might

Fic. 122.—A characteristic view along one of the rivers of the Pacific coast
of Costa Rica. (Photograph by M. Gomez Miralles.)

well be called the land of rainbows, for with clouds, mist, and sunshine
it is seldom indeed that a rainbow is not to be seen.

The rain and wind make the climate a cool one, much like that of
the central tableland of Costa Rica, whose elevation is twice as great.
The flora also is similar, and we find here, at only 1,800 to 2,500 feet,
many species that grow at altitudes of 5,000 to 8,000 feet in central
Costa Rica.

Westward from Tilaran, beyond the influence of the clouds, the
climate changes quickly, and at a distance of one or two miles the
soil is parched during the winter months, and the heat excessive.
Some collecting was done in this arid region, particularly near the
gold mines at Libano; nearly all the plants were different from those
growing but a few miles away in the humid vicinity of Tilaran.
(‘sayfeatyy zowtory “Py Aq ydersojoyg) ‘sjuejd JoyjO pue spryoto ur Yot4 ApoutatjyNe
‘apqeajouodmit jsouye st ysoroy Yt ‘BOY eISOD [eI}JUID JO sUIeJUNOW YSty oy} Ul MotA [voIdA} W—EZI

116 SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VOL.. 78

A visit was made to Lake Arenal, across the cordillera on the
Atlantic watershed. This lake, several miles long, is curious because
of the fact that although the water is deep, its surface, at least during
the drier winter months, is completely covered with vegetation.
Viewed from one of the overhanging slopes one would never guess
the presence of a body of water; it appears like a great savanna. At
the end of the dry season the long grass covering the water becomes
so dry that it may be set afire, thus affording the anomalous spectacle
of a burning lake.

Fic. 124.—Paramo of the Cerro de las Vueltas, Costa Rica, at an elevation
of 10,000 feet. The low clumps of vegetation are composed chiefly of a dwarf
bamboo.

Field-work in Guanacaste revealed a large number of unusual
plants, most of them, however, of technical rather than general
interest. Much lumber is cut in this province, especially Spanish
cedar (Cedrela) and guanacaste (Enterolobium cyclocarpum).

After leaving Guanacaste Mr. Standley had headquarters at San
José for several weeks, making excursions from the capital and
from Cartago to the surrounding high mountains, the richest region
for plants in all Central America. In company with Prof. Rubén
Torres an excursion was made to E] Muneco, south of Cartago, where
there was discovered a new genus of trees closely related to the
walnuts. Visits were made also to the lowlands of the Atlantic coast,
which likewise have a varied and interesting flora.
NO. 7 SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1926 iy

In Costa Rica about 11,500 numbers of plants were collected.
mostly phanerogams and ferns. As upon an earlier visit, much
attention was directed to the collection of orchids, of which there
were obtained 2,000 numbers, representing many species. In orchids
no other part of the North American continent can compare with
Costa Rica, and it is probably not excelled by any area of equal size
in South America. About 1,000 species are known from Costa
Rica. They range from the beautiful Cattleyas, with flowers equal to

Fic. 125.—Cerro de la Carpintera, near Tres Rios, central Costa Rica. This
mountain, now nearly denuded of its forest, is a classic locality for plants.
Black howler monkeys still live in the patches of forest about the summit.
(Photograph by M. Gomez Miralles.)

those of any hothouse orchid, to diminutive plants less than an inch
high, whose blossoms are so minute that they must be studied under
a strong lens.

Although Costa Rica is a small country, about as large as West
Virginia, its flora is so extraordinarily varied that it is still imperfectly
known, in spite of the fact that this has been the favorite collecting
ground of a large number of botanists. It may seem strange that so
small a country should not have been exhausted long ago, but to
one familiar with Costa Rican geography the explanation is simple.
Some of the provinces are so difficult of access that they are prac-
tically unknown even to the national government. The Republic
118 SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VOL. 78

consists of a great mass of high mountains separated by steep-sided
forested valleys, across which travel is nearly or quite impossible.
Each valley and mountain possesses plant species all its own, hence
many decades of exploration will be needed to exhaust this narrowly
limited portion of the American tropics.

BOTANICAL EXPLORATION IN NORTHERN HAITI

Further field-work in Haiti was undertaken in November, 1925,
by Mr. E. C. Leonard of the division of plants, U. S. National
Museum. This work was fostered by Dr. W. L. Abbott, who in
recent years has made a number of visits to Hispaniola, procuring
much valuable material in several branches of natural history. The
botanical specimens collected on these expeditions will be studied in
the preparation of a flora of Hispaniola which is now under way.

Mr. Leonard commenced the winter’s work in the vicinity of St.
Michel, using as headquarters, with the permission of Mr. G. G.
Burlingame, a house belonging to the United West Indies Corporation.
With the invaluable assistance of Mr. F. C. Baker of the United
States Department of Agriculture and Mr. FE. J. Sieger, Manager of
the Atalaye Plantation at St. Michel, it was possible to reach this
region almost immediately after arrival at Port au Prince. The
plantation is situated three miles east of St. Michel on the northern
edge of a large savanna. During the winter season these plains are
covered by a dense growth of a tall reddish-yellow grass, Themeda
quadrivalvis, a native of Africa. It is of no value as a forage crop
and is a serious menace to the plantation buildings, since fires started
by Haitian farmers are constantly breaking out, and sweep rapidly
over considerable areas. The principal crop raised on the plantation
is tobacco; both cotton and sugar cane were tried but did not thrive
in the black mucky clay of the savanna. A large number of Haitians,
four hundred to three thousand, according to the season, are employed
to assist with the crops, and, judging from the melodious cadences
drifting in from the drying barns and fields, they find happiness as
well as a congenial occupation.

The comparatively meager flora of the plains being soon exhausted,
excursions were made to the neighboring mountains, the nearest of
which, Mt. La Mine, lies a short distance to the north. Its arid,
thicket-covered slopes produce many unusual plants. Of great interest
in this region are several caves whose floors are covered by a thick
layer of dust, débris, and fragmentary bones of an extinct fauna.

Other mountainous regions, more distant but accessible by horse-
back, were Mt. La Cidre, Mt. Platanna, both southwest of St.
INO: 7 SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1920 11g

Fic. 126.—The northern slope of Mt. Platanna, showing the xerophytic
nature of the vegetation.

Fic. 127,—Logwood ready for export, at Gonaives, Haiti.
"yor}je Yuet eB JO osvVd Ul Jedtj}OI
ise] eB se aydojsiayD) J019duI9 9Y} Aq pojonsys
-U0D SBM Jape) 94 “Ney, Usoyjsou ‘Tepeyy
94} JO SI9MO} AOII9}UT IY} JO IUG— 671 “DIY

VOL. 78

MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS

SMITHSONIAN

120

“DUDIUYUY DYUNYEC St punoASI1OF diy}
ut aead-AyTyotId oy} ‘xijsly Snata0aupwmaT Sst
aseq S}I ye SN}OeD APUUINJOD JaMO] dy} ‘snuobXjod
SNIAIIO|DY JI J SL SNAIVI IAI[-994} [[2} oY, “Wey

‘QUIOJY SOIN) JO Ysva suTeld snjoey—QzI “DLT

INOS 7, SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1926 121

Michel; Kalacroix, south of Atalaye Plantation; and St. Raphael,
Dondon, and Marmelade, to the north. In the regions of Kalacroix
and Marmelade the altitude was great enough to permit an abundant
growth of ferns. In climate and character of vegetation the region
of Kalacroix resembles in many respects that of Furcy, south of
Port au Prince, visited by Dr. Abbott and Mr. Leonard several years
before. In the rich valleys of both Kalacroix and Marmelade a great
deal of coffee is grown. On the low mountains, between the occasional
streams, one usually finds xerophilous grasses or thickets. In some
places high cliffs and steep inclines of jagged lime rock, partially
covered by tangled vegetation, are the predominating features.

I'ic. 130—Three donkey loads of guinea grass, Gros Morne, Haiti.

Dondon, a picturesque but somewhat inaccessible village, was next
chosen as a collecting base. It is near the famous Citadel, that stupen-
dous monument to futile effort erected with so much suffering and loss
of life as a final stronghold of Christophe, once Emperor of the
North.

Lumbering possibilities in Haiti have long been a subject for
investigation. In the regions visited on this trip, timber did not seem
plentiful enough for profit. —The common tree of the higher regions
is Pinus occidentalis; yet even it is scattered and of poor quality.
On the plains and foothills mahogany is fairly abundant, the trees
growing a considerable distance apart and owned, as a rule, by
individual landholders. Logwood is found mostly in dense thickets.
When the native finds a tree which has produced sufficient heartwood,
122 SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VOL. 78

it is hewn into convenient lengths with a machete and the useless
sapwood removed. The pieces of heartwood, which contain the dye,
are then carried by head or on pack animals to the nearest clearing
house, a shelter and rude balance erected by the roadside near or in
some village, and there offered for sale.

On January 11, 1926, a new headquarters was established at
Ennery, a village midway between St. Michel and Gonaives. The high
mountains, rising abruptly on the south, resemble Mt. La Cidre and
Mt. Platanna in both physiographic features and flora. On the north
the Puilboreau or Cape road, winding upward in a continuous grade
to an elevation of about 2,700 feet at the Pass, gave excellent oppor-

Itc. 131.—Market at Gros Morne, Haiti.

tunity for collecting the plants of the surrounding region. A dense
thicket at the summit of the Pass, wet on its north slope and dry
on its south, was especially rich in strange plants. The flora along
Trois Rivieres in the vicinity of Gros Morne, Pilate, and Plaisance,
typical of most river vegetations throughout Haiti, was rather uninter-
esting, but the arid thickets between Gros Morne and Gonaives were
extremely productive. These undoubtedly would furnish excellent
botanical material if visited during the wet season.

After completing his field-work in the northern mountain region
of Haiti, Mr. Leonard returned to Port au Prince, where several
days were spent in packing specimens and in exploring the sources
of Thor, Bizoton, and Mariani with Dr. Erik L. Ekman and
Draws DS Barker:
NO. 7 SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1926 123

As a result of this expedition, a collection of 3,143 numbers (about
9,000 specimens) was procured, some of the species being new or
rare ones not previously represented in the National Herbarium. In
addition to the herbarium material, a number of land shells and
insects were collected.

ARCHEOLOGICAL SURVEY OF THE FENG RIVER VALERY:
SOUTHERN SHANSI, CHINA

In the latter part of December, 1925, Mr. Bishop suggested that
I undertake some work in the field. The idea immediately occurred to
me that before the spade be brought out, a preliminary survey should
be made, so it was agreed that I should go to the southern part of
Shansi and investigate the archeological possibilities along the Feng
River valley. The president of Tsing Hua College, Mr. Y. S. Tsao,
kindly consented to cooperate. In his official capacity, he wrote to
Governor Yen Hsi-san and successfully arranged for a permit for
me to travel in southern Shansi. By a lucky coincidence also, the
Geological Survey of China was on the point of sending Mr. P. L.
Yuan to the same region for some field-work in geology. Mr. Yuan
is a geologist of much experience, having travelled with Andersson in
Kansu for two years and acquired a great deal of interest in prehis-
toric archeology. So we arranged to travel together. Our start was
somewhat delayed, and it was not until February 5, 1926, that we
left Peking, just a week before the Chinese New Year.

We arrived at T’ai-ytian on the 7th, and spent the whole day of
February 8th in making calls and purchasing equipment. When I
left Peking, I brought a large number of letters of introduction to
the Governor and the various officers of influence in Shansi. Among
these was one written by Mr. Liang Ch‘i-ch‘ao, now senior professor
of the Tsing Hua Research Institute. Similar to many other letters,
this one explained the purpose of my visit and the necessity of
archeological work at present. The Governor, however, was too much
occupied with matters of greater importance to see us; but we suc-
ceeded in having an interview with his secretary, who, on behalf of
the Governor, promised us all the help we asked. These promises were
well fulfilled later on.

1Eprror’s Note: It is greatly to be regretted that, owing to lack of space
available in the present publication, Dr. Li’s excellent report, his illustrations
and his interesting conclusions cannot be printed complete at this time. The
following excerpts will, however, convey some idea, at least, of what he
has accomplished by his preliminary search for archeological sites in southern
Shansi.

9
124 SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VGL. 78

We left T‘ai-yuan on the oth (fig. 132) and, traversing what is
geologically a loess area, arrived at Chieh-hsiu three days later. I
was much impressed by the extensive use of arches that is noticeable
from T‘ai-ytian southward. It seems to be quite a peculiarity of
Shansi architecture. The first series I saw was along the Cheng-t‘ai
road. All the way, in houses that were built on a grand scale, as well
as in the small inns, we found such arches employed. Buildings of this
type are known as yao-fang. Native scholars told me that they are
warm in winter and cool in summer, the style being derived from the
early cave-dwellings. At present, we still find all the transitionai

Fic. 132.—Our cart in front of a roadside temple.

stages from the loess cave type to the most complicated yao-fany
represented in this region.

We took advantage of the Chinese New Year to see the city
of Chieh-hsiu (fig. 133) and also made some measurements of the
natives, who seem to be quite a heterogeneous group. I saw bearded
men who can be compared with the average Armenian; I saw also
men with roo per cent yellow moustaches. One of the commonest
physical types found in this district is the round headed individual
with a long face, a disharmonious type according to physical anthro-
pology. Such an occurrence did not, however, surprise me at all,
as both dolichocephalic and brachycephalic people are found in this
region. Very likely it is the mixing of these two fundamental types
that has given rise to this disharmony.

On the 15th, we started our first trip to the mountain (Mien-shan)
in the southwestern part of the district where some of the ancient
NO. 7 SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1926 12

on

temples are found. Of two of these, especially, I made some detailed
study. Both temples are Buddhist, one located at the foot of the
mountain, the other near the top of one of the peaks. The one at
the foot was first built in the T‘ang Dynasty, but has been destroyed
and rebuilt many times since, only the bell and drum-tower still
retaining a pre-Yuan style. The temple on the peak, also, was first
built in the T'ang period, but burned during the Ming. The strati-
fication of the three different layers of culture is here plainly visible.

Coe

Fic. 133.—Chieh-hsiu: in front of
Kuan-yao Miao.

One of the halls is located very near to a cave. The images that are
worshipped at present are evidently of recent origin. Behind them is
another row of images cast in iron; and finally in the cave I found
two broken statues of stone, one with a head and one without, carved
in simple, bold style, showing T‘ang workmanship; but they are
cast away in the rear of the cave and covered by dust. Perhaps,
however, the most interesting thing we saw on this trip is a stone
ox washed down by a mountain torrent some time ago, from where
no one knows.

The river Feng has its source at Kuan-ch‘'in-shan and flows in a
straight southerly direction till it reaches Chiang Chou. From I-t‘ang
126 SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VOL. 78

southward, it cuts through the Ho-shan range for about 4o miles.
after which it flows through the plain again. For a whole day, the
23d, after leaving Chieh-hsiu, we wormed our way through the Ho-
shan along the river bed. About noon we reached Hsia-men Ts‘un
which is one of the most beautiful villages I have seen in this province:
the buildings of brick and limestone, the windows and doors arched.

From there southward, the mountains on both sides rise steeply,
and in them are many limestone caves, some of which I explored,
but found only traces of modern habitation. We stopped at Ho-chou,
between which place and Lin-feng Hsien there are many historic
places; but as I did not intend to make any intensive study north
of the latter, we passed this region rather hurriedly and reached
Lin-feng Hsien on the 25th.

Lin-feng Hsien (or P‘ing-yang Fu), a city that has aroused imagi-
nation in the past—the ancient capital of the Emperor Yao! What
Chinese scholars are not acquainted with the list of virtues of this
august monarch? Did he, however, also create a model city? Since
he was, perhaps, the most self-denying emperor that the world has
ever known, it would not be in harmony with his ethical principles
if he should have used the national wealth to build luxurious palaces
like those found in Troy and Knossos ; but whatever he might have
done in this respect, it is a fact that there is not even a tradition as to
the exact location of his capital. The modern city of Lin-feng Hsien
is, like every other city in inland China, surrounded by machicolated
walls. About a mile west of the city flows the Feng River, and west
of the Feng is the famous Ku-i-shan where, according to the mythical
tales of Chuang-tzt, resided many fairies.

We rested in Lin-feng Hsien for a day, and on the morning of
the 27th started to explore Ku-i-shan in the western part of the dis-
trict, the place being popularly known as Hsien-tung ( Fairies’ Caves).
A mile out of the western gate of the city, we crossed the eng River.
Between the river and the foot of the mountain there is a series of
loess terraces ascending higher and higher towards the mountain
and dotted here and there by villages, some of which are merely a
collection of cave dwellings. It took us more than half a day to reach
the Northern Fairy Cave, where we were received by a monk—an
old man, widely travelled, and evidently knowing something about his
profession.

The temples in this mountain are for the Buddhists. They were
originally built in the early part of the T‘ang Dynasty ; but in later
periods they were repeatedly ruined and rebuilt. For some time in the
NO. 7 SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1926 127,

Mongol Dynasty, the Taoists took hold of them and converted them
into Taoist temples. They were, however, soon restored to the Bud-
dhists again.

The purpose of my own visit to this place was to explore the lime-
stone caves; that of Mr. Yuan, to investigate the coal region still
further west; so on the morning of the next day, each of us pursued
his own task. The whole region here is limestone formation, divisible
into many different strata. A deep ravine cuts the ground into two
perpendicular walls, north and south, in which are several rows of
caves, most of them inaccessible, while some are well fitted for early
human habitation. Of these I visited five, in the hope of unearthing
some paleolithic remains, but the search proved fruitless. We left
the mountain on the next day by a different route and made a further
search at the foot of the mountain—only to be disappointed again. |
had a long discussion with Mr. Yuan in the evening as to the exact
route we should follow, and finally came to the conclusion that, so
far as my personal work was concerned, I should follow partly the
historical sites and partly the probably pre-historic settlements as my
euides, so at 10 a. m. on March 2d we left for Yao-ling.

The exact location of the tomb of the Emperor Yao is a long
debated question. Previous to the Mongol Dynasty, this tomb was
usually located in Shantung. The tomb in P‘ing-yang Fu was not so
well known at that time. The argument for its location in Shansi is
that as Yao retired at quite an advanced age, it is improbable that
he should subsequently have inspected his distant domains and died
so far away from home. As the tomb in Pting-yang Fu is near his
supposed capital, it is probably the true one—if, indeed, there be a
tomb of this Emperor; but since the very existence of such a person
is doubtful, we can only consider both tombs as variations, merely, of
the same myth. All these considerations passed through my mind
while we were riding towards the tomb of the Emperor. When we
inquired about the way to Yao-ling, the natives simply stared at us,
and it was a long time before we made out that the local name for
the place is Shén-lin (Spirit Forest). There we arrived late in the

g, and found it surrounded by a wall enclosing a building of
modest size, a solitary temple in the midst of mountains, where we
stayed that night.

The tomb is quite high, pyramidal in shape and half encircled by a
rivulet (fig. 134). It was officially lost for a long time, but was re-
discovered in the Ming Dynasty, according to the inscription in the
temple. The arguments as to whether this is the real tomb are diffi-

evening
128 SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VOL. 78

cult to follow; but in spite of them the question remains a question
today, and undoubtedly will remain so until the spade of an archeolo-
gist shall clear it up.

We worked about two hours in the morning and left this reputed
resting place of the august Emperor at 10 a. m., arriving at Fou-shan
Hsien late in the afternoon. On the fourth, we made very little prog-
ress. The ground was wet, and there were many steep ascents and
descents. We covered about six miles in all and stopped at Hsiang-
shui-ho. On this day I picked up my first piece of red pottery of an
archaic character on a descending locss slope.

Fic. 134.—Supposed tomb of the Emperor Yao. From the southeast.

The next day we started early, while the ground was still wet. The
road we followed lies deep down between loess cliffs. Such roads
make it convenient to observe the exposed surface of the Joess. The
finding of the red pottery sherd was very encouraging and made me
look carefully all along the way. Not long after we started from
Hsiang-shui-ho, I began to see gray pottery sherds of the Chou and
Han periods. All of a sudden I discerned a piece of red pottery
decorated with black lying among the withered, wet grass. Then one
after another came into view as we traced them to their source. It
is a heap of earth about Io feet in height and cut down vertically on
one side to the public road. The upper surface is a long and narrow
strip. This piece of land is owned by the Li brothers, who most po-
litely received me and helped me with their spades to gather samples
of the painted sherds from the exposed surface of their mound. When
IN@5 9 SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1926 129

I left them, they were very willing to pose for a picture (fig. 135) by
the side of the heap where these pottery sherds were discovered—the
first Yang-shao site to be found in southern Shansi. The rest of
the day’s journey was a cheerful one, and at four in the afternoon
we airived at the city of I-ch‘eng Hsien.

It was a whole day’s journey from I-ch‘eng to Chu-wo which, in
turn, is about 60 /i east of Chiang Chou—one of the most important
cities in southern Shansi and a center for curio-dealers. At this city,
the Feng River turns westward. While we were in Chu-wo, we
decided to pay a visit to Chiang Chou to have a look at the various

Tic. 135.—Site at Chiao-t‘ou-ho where prehistoric pottery of the Yang-shao
type was found.

curio shops in that city. This, | thought, might perhaps serve to help
us in forming a notion as to,the kinds of antiquities which are un-
earthed in this region. But this idea proved to be a delusion. All the
curio-dealers have a common secret: if one inquires about the exact
location of the place whence the things they exhibit come, the unani-
mous and invariable answer is that they do not know. In vain one
may tell them that the curios would increase in value if their sources
were known. Thus a whole day in Chiang Chou only convinced me
that so far as real archeological work is concerned, very little help
can be derived from such people. Having gone to Chiang Chou from
Chtu-wo by the northern route through Hou-ma, we returned over
a bypath through mountains in the south which has been gradually
elevated from the Féng River valley by Joess deposit. A day and a half
130 SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VOL. 78

was spent in exploring the terraces, and although no particular arche-
ological results were obtained on this trip, we had a fine chance to
study the Joess formation (fig. 136), a certain knowledge of which,
I think, is necessary, if the archeology of southern Shansi is to be
properly understood.

After we returned to Cht-wo, our next trip was to dash across
Chung-t‘iao-shan. This range, according to the local estimate, ex-
tends for about 800 li from east to west, parallel to the Yellow River
on the south and the Feng on the north, and inasmuch as early tradi-
tions about the Emperor Shun and the Hsia Dynasty are centered

Fic. 136.—Loess terraces south of Chiang Chou. (Photograph by P. L. Yuan.
Courtesy of the Geological Survey of China.)

about these mountains, I decided to spend some time here. The next
four days, therefore, were devoted to crossing and recrossing Chung-
t‘iao-shan ; but as we found no archeological prospects here, we turned
immediately northward to An-1 Hsien and Yun-ch‘eng.

We arrived at Ytn-ch‘eng in the evening of the 17th and entered
the city on the 18th. On the 19th we set out to visit the supposed
tomb of the Emperor Shun, and on the way stopped at certain temples
in Yun-ch‘eng. In Shansi-t‘ung-chih (Vol. 52, p. 2), it is recorded
that the stone pillars of these temples were formerly the palace pil-
lars of Wei Hui-wang (335-370 A. D.), recovered from the ruined
city south of An-i Hsien. Some of them are now used as the entrance
pillars in Ch‘'en-huang Miao and Hou-t‘u Miao, and those of Ch‘en-
huang Miao certainly show peculiar features which are worth record-
NO. SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1926 33

SY

Fic. 137.—Details of the left hand stone pillar at the entrance to
Ch‘en-huang Miao, Yiin-ch‘éng.
COLLECTIONS VOL. 78

SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS

132

‘UDIST{ I-UYy JO a}eajsiseyy ay} Aq
peya][09 apjajs ystyppng Jo sdAT—‘OE1 “oly

‘unysS t1o19duq
oy} JO quo, pssoddng—egFI ‘ory

ee gear CR

ae ss POE Oe EEL. EE

ol

NO. 7 SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1926 133

ing. Two pillars, hexagonal in section and carved with dragons coiled
around them, are found at the entrance. The left one (fig. 137) is
especially interesting, because in the claws of the dragon are grasped
two human heads with perfect Grecian features: curly hair, aquiline
and finely chiselled nose, small mouth and receding cheeks. One head
with the tongue sticking out is held at the mouth of the dragon, while
the other is held in the talons of one hind leg. It is an unusually fine
piece of sculpture in limestone, wonderfully spaced and with the
most graceful lines. The right one is inferior in its workmanship:
evidently the two were not executed by the same hand. I saw 28

I'1c. 140.—Supposed tombs of the Hsia Emperors. (Photograph by
P. L. Yuan. Courtesy of the Geological Survey of China.)

of this kind of pillar in the succeeding two days; but most of them
were crude imitations. It is possible, however, that some are of
the ancient type and were made earlier than others. The whole sub-
ject is well worth more detailed study.

The tomb of Shun (fig. 138) has a very different appearance from
that of Yao. It is located about 30 J: northwest of the city of An-i
Hsien in the midst of a vast plain with apparently no natural barrier
on any side to shelter it from “the wind and the water.” Half of
the early references to the tomb of this emperor put its location at
Ch‘ang-wu. Yet Chang Chin-chtin quite convincingly argued that it
must be in An-i (Shansi-t‘ung-chih, Vol. 56, pp. 20-23). The problem
is similar to that concerning the tomb of Yao, and consequently the
solution must be sought in the same way.
134 SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VOL. 78

On the 2oth, we were invited to dinner by the magistrate of An-i
Hsien, Mr. Cheng, who is a student and collector of antiquities. He
introduced us to a small museum in his yamén where he has gathered
together a large number of Buddhist stele and ancient tablets (fig.
139) which were originally scattered all over the district of An-i. Only
a part of all he found has been moved to his yamén,; but his catalogue
includes those which still remain in the different villages. He draws
rather a sharp line of demarcation and leaves all the post-Sung sculp-
tures unrecorded. It is an unusual work that he is doing, and gives
one a ray of hope that some of the ancient monuments in inland China
may yet be preserved. After the dinner we were taken about the city.

Fig. 141.—Site at Hsi-yin Ts‘un where prehistoric pottery was found.

where we saw some more of the dragon pillars, mostly in Taoist tem-
ples. The ancient city itself, where some of these pillars are supposed
to have been found, is less than a mile from the southern gate of An-i.
The remains of the old wall are still visible, but, if the place was a
city at all, it was indeed a very small one, measuring about 400 by 250
yards. It may, however, be the site of an important ancient building.

We left Yun-ch'éng on the 21st, and on the 22d we arrived at
Hsia Hsien—center of the traditions of the ancient Hsia Dynasty.
The temple of the Great Yu and the tombs of his descendants as well
as many of the famous ministers of that dynasty are said to be located
here, and all these I visited (fig. 140) ; but I must confess that I am
not at all able to determine whether, judged by their appearance, they
are the real tombs or not. They all look like the ordinary burial
mounds, except that they are larger. However, while on our way to
NO. 7 SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1926 135

visit these tombs the unexpected happened. It was after riding through
the village of Hsi-yin that, suddenly, a large field of prehistoric
potteries was discovered! Mr. Yuan was the first to see it. The site
(fig. 141), extending to several mou of land, is apparently larger than
the one we found at Chiao-t‘u-ho, and the pottery is somewhat differ-
ent, too. While we were picking up at random the sherds exposed on
the surface, the villagers gathered in large number, so we did not
stay very long lest there be too much excitement created.

Fic. 142.—Votive stela found at
Hsin-hua-shih.

When we left An-i Hsien, the magistrate had given us a copied list
of the names and locations of the various votive stones which are still
scattered in the different villages of his district, and as we were on
our way northward again, we determined to stop and see some of
them. Three places were visited on the 25th and the 26th, where
besides stele, we saw also a number of individual Buddhist figures
which are preserved in good condition, the most perfect piece being in
San-lu-li Ts‘un. Unfortunately, it is preserved in a dark room, where
a picture could not be taken, as I had no flash light with me.
136 SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VOL. 78

On the 26th, while Mr. Yiian went away on some special geological
mission, I started for Chi-san Hsien to have a look at the so-called
T‘ang wall paintings at Hsiao-ning Ts‘un, some of these paintings hav-
ing been recently sold to curio-dealers who sent them to Peking for
sale. Hsin-hua-shih is a Buddhist temple built in the r2th year of
K‘ai-huang of the Sui Dynasty near Ch‘a-tien-chieh. It has been
destroyed and repaired many times; but the front hall still retains
some reminiscence of T'ang architecture. It is in the central and
the third hall that the walls are painted on three sides. The paintings
of the side walls of the third hall and those of the southern wall
of the central hall (opening towards the north) have been taken
away by curio-dealers. The rest is still intact ; and the date is to be
found on the northern wall of the third hall, being the wu-hsii year
of Yuan (A. D. 1298 or 1358). The courtyard between the front hall
and the central hall was locked, and my guide assured me that there
was nothing worth seeing inside the yard. Nevertheless, I had him
open it for me, in spite of his assurance, and by sheer accident I
found the protruding corner of a stone which lay buried in the ground.
I asked the villagers to dig it out for me, and it proved to be a votive
stela (fig. 142) carved at the time when the temple was first built.
This little discovery rounded out my trip, and from this day on [
marched directly northward and returned to Peking.

NOTES

1. Anthropometrical measurements at Chieh-hsiu.

Through the kind arrangements of Mr. Huang Tzt-sen, Magistrate of
Chieh-hsiu Hsien, I was able to measure 86 of the natives of this District who
are serving in the Army Training Camp and the Police Court. With the
exception of my series of Huang-p‘i and Huang-kang, this is the largest of any
series of anthropometrical measurements made in any one district. The follow-
ing 13 measurements were taken of each individual: stature, auditory height,
sitting height, head length, head breadth, horizontal circumference, minimum
frontal diameter, bizygomatic diameter, nasion-menton height, nasion-prosthion
height, nasal height, and nasal breadth. Observations were also made of the
following descriptive characters: hair color, eye, brow, chin, shape of nose,
malar bone, shape of face, prognathism, teeth.

2. Pottery Sherds from Chiao-ttou-ho.

The total number of sherds is 127. Of these, 42 are painted. Of the painted,
20 are with rims: 6 with bent rim, 1 with thickened rim, and 13 wrth plain
rim. The paint used is black. The ground color varies from light brown to
dark brown. The patterns consist of triangles with three sides concave, or with
two sides concave and one side straight or convex; straight lines; crescent
moon; big round dot; cross-hatched lines; shape of X with horns elongated
into straight lines; and parallel lines with big dots between. Of the 85 un-
painted, 21 are gray in color and are decorated with incised lines in parallel,
NO. 7 SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1926 137

cross-hatched or mixed directions; 2 are black and undecorated; 2 are dark
violet and undecorated; 60 have the same ground color as the painted, and of
these 17 are decorated with incised lines, 1 with ornamentation in relief, and
42 are plain. In addition to these potteries, there are also two broken pieces of
finely made black stone rings, and a small piece of the shaft of a human ulna.

3. Pottery Sherds from Hsi-yin Ts‘un.

The total number is 86. Of these, 14 are painted. Of the painted, 7 have
rims—3 bent and 4 plain. Triangles, straight lines and big dots are the
chief decorative patterns. They are often combined. Of the unpainted, 15 are
gray or black in color and 57 are red or dark brown. Of the gray or black,
tt have incised lines and 4 are plain. Of the red, 34 are incised and 23 are plain.
One complete, rather ill-shaped cup is found in this collection. It is dark gray
in color and not uniformly fired. The diameter of the rim varies from 5.5
cm. to 5.9 cm.; the height is 5.3 cm. There are 7 ridges at the bottom with 7
finger depressions between the ridges.

4. Votive stele seen in An-i Hsien.

In the list of ancient votive stele given to me by the magistrate, there
are 41 dated previous to the T'ang Dynasty. Of these, 28 have been moved to
Fang-kung-tzt, the museum in the magistrate’s yamén. Twenty others are
dated in Ttang and Sung, the latest date corresponding with A. D. t1or.

(iswe Ii
Freer Gallery of Art Expedition to China.

ANTHROPOLOGICAL WORK IN ALASKA

Under the auspices of the Bureau of American Ethnology, Dr. Ales
Hrdlicka, curator of physical anthropology, U. S. National Museum,
made, during the spring and summer of 1926, a comprehensive
survey of anthropological and archeological matters in Alaska.’ The

*During the extended trip briefly outlined above the writer has received
many courtesies and much help for which he wishes hereby to offer once more
his grateful and hearty acknowledgments. It will be impossible to specially
mention all who aided in the work, but in the first place thanks are due to
Governor George A. Parks of Alaska; Mr. Harry G. Watson, his Secretary;
Mr. Karl Thiele, Secretary for Alaska; Judge James Wickersham, formerly
Delegate from Alaska; to Father A. F. Kasheroff, Curator of the Territorial
Museum and Library of Juneau; Dr. Wm. Chase of Cordova; Mr. Noel W.
Smith, General Manager, Government Railroad of Alaska; Mr. B. B. Mozee,
Indian Supervisor, and Dr. J. A. Romig, of Anchorage; to Professor C. E. Bun-
nell, President Alaska Agriculture College at Fairbanks; to Mr. and Mrs. Ful-
lerton, Missionaries at Tanana; to the Rev. J. W. Chapman at Anvik; to Father
Jetté, at Holy Cross; to Mr. C. Betsch at Russian Mission and to Messrs. Frank
Tucker and E. C. Gurtler, near the Mission; to Mr. Frank P. Williams of St.
Michaels ; to Judge G. J. Lomen and his very good sons and daughter at Nome;
to the Rey. Doctor Baldwin, Fathers La Fortune and Post, and Capt. Ross,
U. S. Coast Guard, at Nome; to Mr. Elmer Rydeem, merchant at Nome; to
C. S. Cochran, the Captain of the “ Bear,” and his officers, particularly Mr. H.
Berg, his excellent boatswain; to the Rev. F. W. Goodman and Mr. La Voy at
138 SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VOL. 78
|

trip was in many respects a noteworthy one and rich in results, which,

if followed up, promise to lead to valuable additions to our knowledge

regarding the American aborigines.

Since American anthropologists started to study native man, there
has always been in the background of the work the question of the
origin and antiquity of the American Indian and Eskimo. There
were always the questions: Who are they ?; What are their true affilia-
tions’; Where did they come from?; and When did they come to the
New World? One man after another under the Smithsonian Institu-
tion, and more especially under the Bureau of American Ethnology,
besides those elsewhere, has given his life to the study of these prob-
lems, and research was and still is carried on in all parts of the
continent on these basic questions, without the final answers having
as yet been reached.

Throughout this work there has always been felt a need of more
definite knowledge of those parts of America and Asia that come
closest together. In the studies on the origin of the American aborig-
ines in particular, indications invariably point to the furthermost
American northwest and thence to the Asiatic continent. Time and
again, even to the present day, ideas or opinions have been advanced
that the American man, or at least some of the American aborigines,
may have reached this continent from other parts of the world—from
Europe, Polynesia, Melanesia, Central or Southern Asia, and even
Australia. The men who are advancing these ideas generally forget
that when we are dealing with the peopling of America we are not
dealing with the people of the continent within anything like historic
times, but thousands of years back when man was by no means as
civilized or apt in any part of the world as he later became, and when
he did not control as yet sufficient means of navigation or, especially,
of provisioning for any extended journey such as could have brought
him into this continent. The best students of the question agree that
man, up to relatively late times, could only have come into America
over small stretches of ocean; and so everything points in the one
direction of Alaska, and beyond to the Asiatic continent. And here
many people have assumed that there must have been up to recent

Pt. Hope; to the American teachers at Wales, Shismareff, Kotzebue, Pt. Hope
and elsewhere; to Tom Berryman, Jim Allen and Mr. Chas. Brower, traders
respectively at Kotzebue, Wainwright, and Barrow; to Mr. Sylvester Chance,
Superintendent of Education, Kotzebue, Alaska; to the U. S. Marshals, Deputy
Marshals and Postmasters along the route; and to the numerous traders,
miners, settlers and others who were helpful with specimens, advice, guidance,
and in other matters.
NO. 7 SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1926 139

Fic. 143.—Harding Glacier, Resurrection Bay, Alaska.

Fic. 144.—Episcopalian Mission, Yukon Tanana Jct.

10
MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VOL. 78

SMITHSONIAN

140

(‘euvueN Vv)

‘OJIM SUNOA sIy Y}IM

is vueuey oy} JO ‘semoyy Joryy—SFI ‘oly

ea

NO. 7 SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1926 I4!I

times a land connection. But Dall and others have shown that we
have no sufficient foundation for this assumption within the time that
the American man may have come over; nor was such a connection
at all necessary. There may have been a land connection preceding,
and possibly even during some part of the glacial period, but those
times are so far away that they play no part in the peopling of America,
however large a role they may have had in the exchange of various
animals between the two continents.

When one looks on the map of Alaska, it seems a relatively small
portion of the world and it would seem that the exploration of it for
traces of ancient man should be fairly simple. There are a few large
rivers; almost no harbors; there are in general only a few favorable
spots in Alaska where ancient man could have established himself,
and it would appear easy to reach these points, to survey them, and
to see what they promise or can give. As a matter of fact, Alaska
is as large as one-third of the United States; the whole of it has less
than two hundred miles of good roads; and the interior—and_ by
interior is meant here anything away from the shores of the seas and
the banks of the rivers—is practically impassable except for short
stretches during the brief summer. In winter the country can be
traversed more easily with dog sleds, but winter is not the season
for archeological work. And when the explorer comes to the rivers
or shores, he finds that transportation facilities by boat have, since
the gold rush is over, become very limited, suitable boats being hard
to obtain and very expensive. So that the student from the very start
is presented with serious difficulties which at times seem almost
insurmountable.

Under these conditions it was difficult to carry out systematic work
planned ahead from beginning to end; but the writer soon learned
that Alaska in general is peopled today by the most helpful, big-
hearted and generous men and women, and their help counted for
much. With this many of the difficulties were overcome until the
Bering Sea was reached, where by good fortune was found the
Revenue Cutter ‘ Bear,’ which was ready to help. On it the writer
went to St. Lawrence and other important islands ; and with it he was
enabled to visit point after point of anthropological interest along the
Seward Peninsula, the Kotzebue Sound, and then through the Arctic
Sea right up to Barrow. The “ Bear” could not give all the time
needed, but enough was given to make possible at least the most
essential observations on each spot and fair coilections.

The journey began, strictly speaking, at Vancouver, for at the
several stops of the boat between Vancouver and Juneau an opportu-
MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VOL. 78

SMITHSONIAN

142

(‘UOISST] 94} Ye poydessoj0yg )

‘eueuey ‘sueipuy uoyxn, ‘YyYdesof Joryj—OPI ‘O14

NO. 7 SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1926 143
nity was had of seeing the natives of the coast and the islands. The
striking characteristics of these natives are their relatively large faces
and big chests, combined with rather short legs and stature. There
are large numbers of mixed-bloods among the younger generation.

A stop of several days was made at Juneau, to see the excellent
local museum under the able directorship of Father Kashevaroff, and
to obtain the needed official papers. The occasion was utilized also for
a visit of the last remaining known site of the Auk tribe of Indians,
and for some important collections. The chief among the latter is
an old Shaman mask of the Yakutat tribe beaten from one piece of
copper.

From Juneau, transportation was taken for Seward on a boat which
stopped at several stations for a sufficient length of time to enable the
writer to see such things as could be found in these places, and to make
inquiries of principal local men about Indian remains. Some speci-
mens were collected on this part of the trip, including a very typical
skull of an Indian child donated by Dr. Chase of Cordova.

From Seward the journey was continued on the government rail-
road to Anchorage, with some further collecting and information at
the latter place. Through the courtesy of the general manager of the
railroad, Mr. Noel W. Smith, a stop was next made at the now small
but formerly more important Indian village of Eklutney. Here exists
a new and well conducted Indian school in which, thanks to the prin-
cipal, it was possible to examine a large number of Indians, with a
few Eskimo children.

From Eklutney a train was taken to Nenana, where a number of
iocal Indians, headed by their old Chief Thomas, were waiting for a
brief talk ; and then to Fairbanks, where additional specimens of inter-
est were obtained, and where the writer was enabled, thanks to the
kindness of Professor C. E. Bunnell, President of the Alaska Agri-
cultural College, to examine the ethnological, archeological and paleon-
tological collections at the college. From Fairbanks, the writer re-
turned to Nenana, where he boarded a small river steamer with which
he proceeded down the Tanana River on which are several small In-
dian villages.

The main part of the inland journey began at Tanana, at the junc-
tion of the Tanana and Yukon Rivers, and extended down the Yukon
for a stretch of over goo miles. It was covered mostly in small boats,
some owned by traders, some by Indians. We zigzagged from bank
to bank, from settler to settler and camp to camp, making inquiries,
observing natives, examining old sites, and collecting what it was pos-
sible to collect. In this way considerable light was finally gained on our
144 SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VOL. 78

problems along the Yukon, which grand stream must have been one
of the principal arteries of the ancient movements of population ;
and the impressions increased until by the time the mouth of the river
was reached it was possible to formulate the following conclusions :

1. The living Indian population along the Tanana, and the Yukon
below the Tanana, is scarce. It is doubtful if the total number of
the natives on both rivers, as far as covered on this trip, reaches 1,000.
And many of the younger adults and especially the children, are
mixed-bloods. Due to a lucky coincidence—a potlatch at the mission
above Tanana, and other conditions—about 400 Indians were actually

Fic. 147.—Anvik, on the lower middle Yukon.

seen. They all belong to one type, of moderate stature and features,
moderate pigmentation, and brachycephaly. They are identical with,
or very near to, the Alaska Indians further south.

2. The boundaries between the Indian and the Eskimo both cul-
turally and physically, are indefinite and vague. Moreover, in olden
times the Eskimo, according to indications, extended somewhat
farther up the river than he now does. But the Indian seemingly
occupied always the middle two-thirds of the Yukon, and the Tanana.
As the trip proceeded down the Yukon below Ruby, the more speci-
mens obtained and especially the more skeletal material gathered, the
more difficult it became to say just where ended the Eskimo and where
began the Indian. There is no clear line of demarcation between the
NO. 7 SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1926 145

two; they interdigitated and mixed together, culturally as well as
physically.

3. From Tanana down stream to its mouth, the Yukon is now and
was evidently in the past peopled almost exclusively on the right or
northern side. This side is essentially that of the heights, the left
being mainly that of flats. But even in the flat country towards the
mouth of the river (north mouth) the settlements are all on the right
bank. The Indians and the Eskimo behaved alike in this respect,
as in a good many others.

4. The old banks of the Yukon, where preserved, show occasional
sites of human occupation and yield stone tools, fragments of pottery,
more or less fossilized animal bones, and now and then barbed points
of ivory or other bone objects.

The habitations in general were of the partly subterranean “ igloo,”
or pit-and-tunnel type. Traces of Russian presence are common.
The occupation of some of the sites is still remembered. A few appear
earlier than the coming of the white man. No trace was found or
heard of any remains that would suggest geological antiquity.

So much for the Yukon. When the Bering Sea was reached, the
first more important visit was to St. Lawrence Island. This island
was formerly not much considered in archeology and anthropology.
It was believed to be rather an out-of-the-way place with small if
any connection with the American side, and on which there was not
much of importance. This idea must now be given up, for as a result
of what was seen and learned this large island should be one of the
principal points of attack for future research and is one of the most
promising. On the St. Lawrence and the little “ Punuk” Islands
southeast of it, there are now being recovered by the Eskimo quantities
of objects made of ivory which through age has become more or less
“ fossilized,” and these objects in some cases show remarkable and
beautiful decoration. Definite information was obtained that on one
of the Punuk Islands numerous such implements are actually visible
frozen in old refuse heaps. A small party from the Revenue Cutter
“ Algonquin ” reached these islands this year (1926) and obtained, ac-
cording to reliable information, several bushels of such articles and of
old ivory. These objects were brought away to be worked up into
beads, pendants, ete., which find ready sale. A number of them, parts
of which were still extant, showed human workmanship. These and
other facts indicate that these islands are of much promise, and it is
urgent to explore them before what they can give disappears.

From St. Lawrence the voyage led to the Diomedes, passing King
Island. This island was at that time bare of population, all of the
146 SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VOL. 78

inhabitants having gone to Nome for the summer. At Nome, where
they now come every year, these Eskimo work at various trades, and
manufacture articles from the walrus ivory which they have gathered
during the rest of the year. They do not return until late in the
season, when they have sold all they have made. We also passed
Sledge Island, with two interesting dead villages which ought to be
explored.

The next stop was on the smaller or American Diomede. At this
time the writer did not have permission from the Russian Government
(received later) to visit the larger island, which belongs to Russia.
We found, however, that both the larger and smaller Diomede were

Fic. 148.—June 26, 1926. Bird’s-eye view of Cape Prince of Wales, Alaska.
Picture taken at midnight on above date showing the midnight sun. The point
on the left hand margin of the picture is the nearest point to Siberia.

Note: The village can be seen extending along the coast to a point about
300 ft. beyond Village Creek. Large body of water on the extreme right is
Lopp Lagoon. (Photograph by Clark M. Garber.)

nearly deserted, the inhabitants having gone to Nome where they, too,
stay through the summer making articles of fossil (mammoth, walrus)
or fresh (walrus) ivory. If the student wants to see these islanders
in summer he must go to Nome, where on one side of the town live
the Diomede, on the other the King Island people. The majority of
both were seen there before the start with the help of the very efficient
and good Father La Fortune.

Although the small Diomede is difficult for exploration, some in-
teresting features were found. They consisted of rock burials, old
refuse heaps, and ruined habitations. The burials have been made
among big boulders of granite that cover the steep slopes of the
NO. 7 SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1926 147

island. Beneath these boulders are many large crevices in which nest
thousands of the little auks. One hears the birds constantly chattering
deep beneath one’s feet, but never sees them. The crevices are deep
and spacious, and into them have fallen beyond redemption many of
the skulls and bones of the people buried once among the rocks above.
Only here and there a bone or a skull that escaped such fate remained
to be collected.

As to the village on the little Diomede, it is a poor little hamlet
of only five houses, and could never have been much larger. But it is
built upon something that preceded it and the ruins, the tumbled

Fic. 149.—Portion of Native Burial Grounds from which specimens of
skeletons and crania were collected for Smithsonian Institution. Location:
Northern Talus slope of Cape Mountain about 4 mile from Village of Wales.
(Photograph by Clark M. Garber.)

buildings of older times, have served for a foundation of the newer
dwellings. Dr. Jennes of the Ottawa Museum came out with us from
Cape Prince of Wales to do some excavation on the island.

The next stopping place after a brief visit to Wales, was the site
of two old native settlements with a living village between them, called
Shismareff, located near the middle of the northern coast of the
Seward Peninsula. Along this part of the coast are several other old
dead villages, some of them particularly promising for exploration.
Of the two at Shismareff itself, the more important was unfortunately
appropriated recently for a fox farm, the burial grounds were razed,
the skeletal remains mostly dumped into holes, the surface of the old
igloos levelled and cages for the foxes erected upon the flats thus made.
148 SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VOL. 78

It seems that there is no protection for such sites and nobody cares
sufficiently to save them, and so, in this case at least, what is probably
one of the most interesting sites of that coast is lost to science. And
there are others.

From Shismareff, the “ Bear ’’ proceeded to Cape Blossom, and
the Kotzebue Sound, where, with the valued help of Mr. Sylvester
Chance, Superintendent of Education for the North-West district,
valuable information was obtained concerning a large number of dead
villages in this region. Some of these are old and some fairly recent,
but all deserve to be explored. Along the Buckland River there is also
apparently much archeological as well as paleontological material.

The Kotzebue Sound is an especially important region to anthro-
pology because, as long as either natives or whites remember, here
have congregated every year natives from all parts of this region—
from the Diomedes, from the East Cape in Asia, from the villages
of the Seward Peninsula, and from those of the Arctic coast as far
north as Barrow, as well as from the inland rivers. Here doubtless
is much to be found and learned, though even here much has already
been obliterated or scattered.

From Kotzebue the journey led along the coast to Point Hope.
This coast is barren and unoccupied, or almost so; and, except at
Cape Krusenstern there is apparently but little in the way of older
remains. One of the most important and interesting points however of
all these coasts, is Point Hope itself. There we meet with a dead
village which was occupied up to 30 years ago but whose beginnings
are very old. The people have abandoned the village because, it is
said, of the encroachment of the sea. They are now occupying a site
a little back of it, and are assiduously excavating the old remains and
selling the proceeds to whoever comes along. We were there twice—
going north and coming back, and had some interesting experiences.
Going north the writer bought a good number of old implements,
etc., from the natives, especially from one young woman. When they
found that skeletal material also was desired, they brought willingly
what they could find from the old village—three human skulls, skulls
of dogs and a fox, and other specimens. When the “ Bear” came
back, the young woman from whom a skull was obtained before, came
against all expectation to the boat with a bag on her back containing
five very good skulls, which she had excavated from the old burial
grounds with her own hands. It was an illustration of the helpful
and matter-of-course nature of these natives, who in general are
progressing rapidly in civilization.
NO. 7 SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1926 T49

The old village at Point Hope is yielding large numbers of speci-
mens of great variety—of such variety that one stands astonished at
the extent and refinement of the former culture of these far north
people. Point Hope is at the extreme end of a spit of sand and gravel
many miles long extending into the sea and exposed to all the winds
and storms—scarcely a place where one would expect to find a people
of such varied or advanced culture. Many old articles of native trade
appear from the diggings, trade with the people of Kobuk River to
those of the Bering Sea and perhaps even Asia. And in the upper
layer occur occasional articles (metal, beads) of white man’s
introduction.

The further journey to Barrow was a series of difficulties, with
not much of anthropological interest except at Barrow itself. Between
Point Hope and Barrow there are but few settlements, old or present.
There is however Kevaleena, a small new village, with two old and
possibly important sites, one along the lagoon and one further inland,
on the river. Then comes Wainwright, another small recent village
with an older site nearby, followed by a few little camps of reindeer
herders. Then, just outside of Barrow, is an interesting old village
site, and again another, further on, known as the “ Hunting Place,”
the latter yielding good archeological specimens. Still further north
there is a village at Point Barrow; but from Point Barrow eastward
the now northern coast is seemingly barren until one reaches Barter
Island, where there is a large dead village, which however was still
occupied in the time of the earliest sailings in these waters. A col-
lection of material from this village, seen in the possession of Mr.
Charles Brower, the intelligent trader and collector of Barrow, proved
interesting, though of much the same nature as the material along the
coast this side of Barrow and, except for a few objects not as refined
or beautiful.

On the return trip, each of the villages along the Arctic coast was
re-visited and some small places were seen in addition; and then the
“ Bear ” endeavored once more to stop at Cape Prince of Wales, but
was prevented by a storm; it next tried to stop at the Diomedes—
prevented by storm; at St. Lawrence—prevented by storm ; once more
at the small Diomede where Dr. Jenness awaited us, but unable to
approach. Then a landing was tried at Nunivak Islands further south,
but the boat was again driven away by storms and had to turn towards
the Pribyloffs and Unalaska.

The total experience among the Bering and Arctic coasts may be
summed up as follows: We are confronted here with an extensive re-
gion that is but sparsely peopled—the total population of today prob-
ably not exceeding 5,000 individuals—and which evidently has not been
150 SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VOL, 78

much more peopled at any time during its existence. Here again, as
along the Yukon, the only sites available for man and which were
doubtless utilized in the past, were the beaches and especially the
“spits ” or low sand and gravel bars reaching into the sea, or separat-
ing the sea and inside lagoons, for these offered man the best facili-
ties for getting at the animals and birds that he most needed for his
food. All that was actually seen was, however, recent. The old
beaches, the old flats, the old accumulations of rivers, the old lagoons,
are filled up or washed away. In places there may be seen three, four,
five—a whole series of beaches, and it is not known on which of these
ancient man did settle. In some places these older beaches have been
or are now being cut away. New lagoons have formed or are now
forming, and old ones are filling up before one’s eyes, to be converted
into pools and marshes.

Still further, entire regions during a large part of the year, that is.
during the open season when the ice goes north and again before
the new ice forms, are subject occasionally at least to violent storms ;
and what these storms can do to human remains the writer himself
saw. Eighteen miles to the east of Nome is a dead village, one of
the largest on that coast. Near this village was an old burial ground,
well known to some of the old white pioneers. One of these, who did
not know what had happened, advised the writer to go there to collect,
for he said he saw the ground covered with skeletal remains and
various objects placed with the dead. The writer had, however, already
visited the spot and this is what was found. In 1913 there had been a
very violent south-wester—so bad that the cemetery at Nome itself was
washed out and the bodies were scattered over the country. This
storm absolutely washed off and left barren of human specimens the
old burial ground east of Cape Nome, and had it not been for the
depressions that still show where the ancient igloos of the village stood,
no one could possibly guess today that an important burial ground
had ever been in that vicinity.

Such storms doubtless happened repeatedly in the past, and they
must have destroyed or covered many of the old sites. But many sites
and remains of man of moderate antiquity still exist there. Many
dead villages invite exploration and will repay excavation. And such
explorations, judging from the experience acquired on this trip, will
not be as expensive as might be feared.

A few words as to the problem of Asiatic migrations. The last
summer’s studies gave much definite light on this question. It so hap-
pened that upon reaching the upper parts of the Bering Sea we had
the three clearest and most peaceful days of the whole journey ; and
NO. 7 SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1926 I5I1

all this time the sensation was that of floating on a big lake, all boun-
daries of which could be seen at one and the same time except in the
southeasterly direction. There is no problem of migration here. It
was no great effort for people to pass from Asia to St. Lawrence
Island, or the Diomedes, or Wales, Nome, Teller, and even as far as
the Kotzebue or Norton Sounds and along the Arctic coast to Point
Hope and northward. The people today think nothing of such trips.
They have excellent big skin boats, much like the wooden Haida or
Tlinkit boats of the south, which are so seaworthy that in going to

Fic. 150.—East Cape of Asia.

Nome from the King or Diomede Islands the natives fill them to the
gunwales with dogs, ivory, and all sorts of household articles, and on
the return trip they pile in boxes and barrels of provisions. An ex-
ample of how little the Eskimo think of these journeys was witnessed
during the last call of the “Bear” at Nome. As the year before,
the King Islanders at Nome were offered the facilities of the “ Bear ”
for transporting them homeward; but they preferred to be left
behind because they had yet some purchases to make and some few
articles to sell. They preferred to make the return journey in their
umiaks later, regardless of the storms and distance, which shows how
seaworthy these boats are and how practical native navigation was and
is in these parts of the world. And once they reached the northeastern-
most parts of the American continent, it was natural for the Asiatics to
pass on. They were not emigrating into a new world ; they merely saw
another land a bit ahead of them and went to it, and they had no
152 SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VOL. 78

reasons to return with the table better and better spread before them
the farther they reached, and no opposition. The only questions can
be, what were the exact routes the different contingents of these
people took ; and where are we to look and watch for their remains ?
In this last respect the inquiries made along the Yukon and the
coast and the islands were very instructive. There was certainly no
single large migration. The people came over the Diomedes, through
the Bering Sea, north and south of the Bering Strait; they came in
small tribai groups, and this was doubtless repeated over a long period

Fic. 151.—Just south of East Cape of Asia. Native village to left.

of time. Then, judging from historic evidences, their movements
were as follows:

It may be presumed that ancient man adhered to very much the
same routes as those that are in use today, as the most practical, the
most natural and sometimes the only available ones. Undoubtedly
the greatest and most frequented route of farther spread was that
along the coast down to the base of the Alaskan Peninsula, where
with the inlets and lakes there is but a little portage over land to
the Gulf of Alaska. Then there were the routes up the Yukon and
Kuskokwim Rivers. On the Yukon, the earlier contingents probably
did not go right up the whole stream, but branched off at the Tanana
River and then went towards the Copper River which brought them
into Prince of Wales Sound and the Gulf of Alaska. There were two
other routes, one down the Koyokuk River, one of the largest tribu-
taries of the Yukon, by which they would reach the latter; and the
NO.

SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1926

oo

153

Fic. 152.—Eskimo family of Wales on the “ Bear.”
SMITHSONIAN

MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS

VOL. 78

Fic. 154.—Eskimo at Nome, Alaska. Indian-like in type.

Fic. 153—Eskimo, St. Lawrence Id. Rounded, low vault.
NO. 7 SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1926 155

other along the Noatak River. The latter route was probably used by
but few people, but there are indications that some did follow it until
they reached the Colville River, peopled its region and extended
farther eastward.

To sum up, as to the routes of migration, outside of the Aleutian
Islands, which are a problem of their own and point to Kanitchatka,
the most plausible and doubtless most used route was that southward
along the shores of the sea; the second, along the Yukon River and its

~

es

Tic. 155.—Eskimo mother and child, Indian-like in type, Reindeer Camp,
n. Pastolik, Norton Sound.

tributaries ; the third and fourth, along the Selavik, Koyokuk and
Noatak Rivers in the north; the fifth along the Kuskokwim ; and the
sixth along the Arctic coast.

The questions of the culture of the older people and their physique
are of much interest. So far as culture is concerned it was appreci-
ated, more than ever before, that there existed in these parts of
America, not so many hundreds of years ago, remarkable develop-
ment, especially in what may best be characterized today perhaps by
the term “ fossil ivory culture.” The people of this culture, who-
ever they were—doubtless ancestors of the Eskimo or Indian or both—
reached a high degree of industrial differentiation and art—so high

II
150 SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VOL. 78

that we have nothing to compare with it in America except among the
more highly civilized and developed tribes of the northwest coast,
Mexico, Yucatan and Peru. They attained a high grade of native art,
which was characterized especially by decoration in curves and soft
lines. There seems to be a distinction between this and the Eskimo
art of today, as if some other people were responsible for the older
culture; but when one examines the skeletal remains there is no
indication of any other people except Eskimo and Indian in this

Fic, 156.—Eskimo woman, Indian-like type, and child,
Kevalina (Arctic).

region at any period thus far represented in the collections. There-
fore it seems that for the present at least it must be accepted provi-
sionally that this culture was connected with the ancestors of the pres-
ent natives of these regions. This interesting old culture seems to
reach away along the American coasts; but it is not certain that its
arts were actually practiced everywhere along these coasts. One of
the most striking phenomena in these parts of the world is the exten-
sive trade that, according to many indications, was here carried on in
implements and other cultural objects. There is on the Kobuk River a
mountain which is called Jade Mountain. This mountain was early
NO. 7 SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1926 157

known to the Indians or the Eskimo of the river and its green stone
was utilized by them for making adzes, drills, knives, lamps, and
other objects. This particular stone is found only in that one place,
yet objects and implements made of it occur scattered all the way from

fae crne Han. Ulasica,

4 sa,

Fic. 157.—Eskimo medicine man, treating a boy.

Point Hope down to Nunivak Island, and probably even the Gulf of
Alaska and the northwest coast. Similarly, one finds the highly deco-
rated objects of now fossil ivory on the Diomedes, the St. Lawrence
Island, the Asiatic coast, and from Barrow and Point Hope again
down to, if not beyond, Nunivak Island. The indications would seem
to point to the old ivory culture having been central on the Asiatic
side, whence it spread by trading along the American coast.
158 SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VOL. 78

The skeletal remains collected on this journey will probably prove
to be of much importance. They represent skeletal material from
Barrow down the coast, spot by spot, including the islands ; and they
comprise not only recent material but also some older. These re-
mains show at first sight that the Eskimo of these regions are by no
means the highly differentiated Eskimo of Labrador and Greenland,
but that they approach, in some cases almost to an identity, on one
hand the Asiatic and Mongoloid types of people, and on the other
the American Indians, more particularly those of Alaska. The
writer has no longer any hesitation in believing that the Eskimo and
Indian originally were not any two distinct races nor even two widely
distinct and far-away types, but that if we could go a little back in
time they would be found to be like two neighboring fingers of one
hand, both proceeding from the same palm or racial source.

ARCHEOLOGICAL INVESTIGATIONS IN CHACO CANYON,
NEW MEXICO

The Pueblo Bonito Expeditions* of the National Geographic So-
ciety, under the direction of Neil M. Judd, curator of American
archeology, U. S. National Museum, were concluded in October, 1926.
Pueblo Bonito is a prehistoric Indian village in the Chaco Canyon
National Monument, northwestern New Mexico; archeological evi-
dence suggests its abandonment about one thousand years ago. Pueblo
Bonito may justly be regarded as one of our finest aboriginal apart-
ment houses for, in its hey-day, it stood four stories high, comprised
approximately 800 rooms, and covered more than three acres of
ground. Its occupants were sedentary Indians who had surpassed all
their known contemporaries in civic organization, architectural devel-
opment, and dexterity in the manual arts. The National Geographic
Society’s Pueblo Bonito Expeditions, inaugurated in 1921, have con-
tributed a vast store of information concerning these primitive Pueblo
folk and others who, in pre-Columbian times, tilled the desert soil not
only in Chaco Canyon but elsewhere throughout the plateau regions
of the southwestern United States. The spacious communal dwellings
these ancients built and occupied form the major antiquities of their
respective periods and cultures.

During the past six years Mr. Judd and his associates have investi-
gated the archeological evidence of the domestic and ritualistic life
of the Bonitians and their neighbors at Pueblo del Arroyo and have

* Smithsonian Misc. Coll., Vol. 72, Nos. 6 & 15; Vol. 74, No. 5; Vol. 76,
ING; Oe Wolk G7, ING, 2S Wall, Fs, ING, us
159

SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1926

IN

NO.

(Aja100S otydesrSoary JeuoeN ay} Jo Asajyinoy ‘suaarp “D ‘CO Aq ydess
-ojoyg) ‘anqued qsed oy} uryYWM pout1of ‘OAOIIe JUasord oy} pue dures s Ayatn0G s1ydeisoar) [euoTyeN
dy} ‘90URISIP I[Pplul 9y} UT ‘WoO

Aue) oovyd JO YO YOU oY} WOIZ WIS se OO O]qeng—gRSI “OL

SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VOL. 78

160

(‘491905
o1ydeisoory [euoleN ay} Jo Asazinoz ‘Pphf [PN
Aq ydeisojoyq) “Aiuoseur porsod Pty} ONstt9joe1eyo
O [Je ev UL 100p padeys-J, ‘paxsoyq ‘a8n~y—ogr “O14

Fae Pe

(CAyaI90G d1ydes80ar) JeuoneN
ay} Jo Asoyinoy ‘ppn{ “we yen Aq_ ydessojoyg )
‘opUO| Oqend Ul uo sN44suo0d Jo porsad sz0few }se] 10
YANOF 9} FO Sul001 SurydsUU0D sfemMIOOG—6S1 DIA

161

ATIONS, 1926

EXPLOR

SMITHSONIAN

NO.

Aq yde1s0j,0yd )

‘oyMOg O[qang JO s][BA oy} purYyaq oso]

“MOTAG [OF IseI[IA gq}

ye
2)

(Ajo
self
if

:
S

2}
S

OS d1ydeisosr) [RUOTeN oy} Jo Asojino) “ppnf “IN TaN
IUL DATPNA}SAP I1OU Puke ddURYAP Po[INY SIOTIeM AUTIUD

SurtaMmMo} ‘uokuey ooeyd JO YD YJOU sy} WOI.J— IOI “Oly

162 SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VOL. 78

also inquired into the probable geophysical changes brought about in
Chaco Canyon since Pueblo Bonito was inhabited. It is now known,
for example, that Pueblo Bonito was occupied by two distinct groups
of Indians ; that the type of architecture developed by each group was
as unlike the other as were the household utensils employed in the
corresponding sections ef the village. Both peoples were farmers,
however, and their fields of corn, beans, and squash may well have
lain side by side. Hunting played no essential part in their means of
livelihood despite the variety of mammal and bird bones found in

Fic. 162.—Bonitian cooking pots buried just beneath the floor of Room 350
and used for storage purposes. (Photograph by Neil M. Judd. Courtesy of
the National Geographic Society. )

the rubbish piles. Agriculture was the main dependence of both
groups, but there came a time when the harvests were no longer suffi-
cient to support a population of from twelve to fifteen hundred.
Arroyos formed, rain waters drained off quickly, helpful chemicals
were leached out of the soil, the latter became impervious to water,
crops failed to mature. This condition, it appears from the data at
hand, was the indirect result of the prodigal manner in which the
Bonitians utilized their available timber supply. Altered agricultural
conditions, then, in addition to the harassment of nomadic, enemy
tribes, unquestionably contributed to the disintegration and ultimate
abandonment of both Pueblo Bonito and Pueblo del Arroyo.
NO. 7 SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1926 163

Each successive period of constructional activity at Pueblo Bonito
witnessed a marked intramural rearrangement of dwellings and a
distinct effort to strengthen the outer walls, thus increasing their im-
pregnability. External doorways were eliminated; ventilators were
closed ; the people drew closer and closer together. The single pas-
sageway which gave ready access to the inner courts was barred by a
wall through which a narrow door opened; but this door was subse-
quently closed and thereafter entrance was had only by means of
ladders which could, in time of attack, be drawn up to the housetops.

Fire. 163.—The overhang above the Indian’s head shows the union of a new
addition with older, partially razed walls in Pueblo Bonito. (Photograph by
Neil M. Judd. Courtesy of the National Geographic Society.)

Sporadic warfare is even more vividly evidenced by discoveries made
in individual rooms of the ruin.

Among other researches pursued by the 1926 expedition was that
concerned, with sub-court walls in Pueblo Bonito. Its closely-grouped
houses were not hastily constructed from previously prepared plans.
Throughout a considerable portion of the village deeply buried walls
have been found. These pertain in each case to earlier periods of
occupancy; they represent dwellings partially razed and over-built
by later structures. Some of these demolished walls have been found
as much as 12 feet (3.65 m.) below the last utilized court level. So
great an accumulation of blown sand, débris of reconstruction and
(‘AjaII0G oydeisoar [euoTWeNY ay} FO Asojin0y (AJaID0G IYydeasoary [euoleN

‘ppof “W TPN Aq yYdersojoyq) ‘JedAs] J4n0d pozipyn oy} JO Asoyinoy “ppnf “py [!eN Aq ydes8ojyoyg) “uoy
JSP] 9Y} SUTA[Iopun O}VUOG O;[qeng je ported puodoas -on.AYsuOD JO SpOriad dAIssaoons Surjussaides ‘oyuog
ay} JO AuOseU poudzyIyM pure pesojse[q— SOI “OLy O[qeng Ul sj[eM j41N0d-qus ‘pssoduitsadng—tor ‘ong

VOL. 78

MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS

SMITHSONIAN

164

NO. 7 SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1926 165

floor sweepings furnishes mute evidence of the passing of many
generations.

Mr. Karl Ruppert, one of Mr. Judd’s associates in the Pueblo
sonito Expeditions, again supervised explorations at Pueblo del
Arroyo. These, in 1926, were chiefly confined to excavation of a
much-ruined, lesser structure close on the west side of the larger
pueblo. The excavations were complicated and laborious ; but upon
their conclusion it was found that the site had originally been occu-
pied by a circular tower, 73 feet (22.24 m.) in diameter, of a type

Tic. 166.—Outer south wall of Pueblo del Arroyo, showing varied stonework
and later, abutting rooms. (Photograph by Neil M. Judd. Courtesy of the
National Geographic Society.)

well known to the northward but not previously recorded so far south
of the Rio San Juan. Interest in this structure was augmented by its
apparent relationship to the super-kivas or huge ceremonial chambers
of the Bonitians. Later walls joined the tower to Pueblo del Arroyo,
but, subsequently, both tower and adjacent buildings were almost
wholly razed by prehistoric masons who desired the dressed sand-
stone blocks for use elsewhere.

In addition to his study of the Expedition’s ceramic collections, Mr.
Frank H. H. Roberts, Jr., now of the Bureau of American Ethnology,
undertook exploration of two small-house sites about nine miles east
of Pueblo Bonito. Both settlements belong to an earlier horizon than
166 SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VOL. 78

that represented by the great communal dwellings of Chaco Canyon.
One of the two sites had been occupied by pre-Pueblo peoples whose
local form of habitation was a semi-subterranean, circular structure
the lower wall of which was formed by upright sandstone slabs. Simi-
lar houses have been noted elsewhere in the Southwest ; their charac-
teristically flat or low, conical roofs were frequently supported by
four upright posts, as in Chaco Canyon. The second village examined
by Mr. Roberts was much later than the first, both in time and cul-
ture. But it was never inhabited ; indeed, it was not even completed.

Fic. 167—South half of a prototype kiva at a pre-Pueblo site 9 miles east
of Pueblo Bonito. (Photograph by Neil M. Judd. Courtesy of the National
Geographic Society.)

Excavation established the fact that although some of its rooms had
approached completion the larger number was represented merely
by foundations prepared but never built upon.

This latter site had been wholly concealed by sedimentary deposits
washed down from the borders of the canyon and was only brought to
light by a narrow, deep arroyo cut within the past 15 years. As further
indication of the not inconsiderable length of time during which pre-
historic folk inhabitated Chaco Canyon prior to construction of the
great pueblos, it is interesting to note that the arroyo which disclosed
the unfinished settlement last mentioned also exposed a “ pit-house ”

‘
167

SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1926

IN

NO.

(‘Ayo190G s1ydeiso0ar) JeuONeN ey} JO Asozsno_)
‘ppuf ‘Ww PEN Aq ydessojoyg) *(Aoq ueipuy JO yy S11
ye) Suljjeamp-jyid Jopjo ][yWs e pue ssnoy yeuNnwUtO0S
jusToue ue JO S][eM paystuyun vy} pasodxes sey OAOIIe
dsap e& OWUOg O;qang Jo 4sea Sop IUIN—O6OI “DIY

(‘AJo1IDN0G oIydesrso09r) [RuOTWeNY oy} Jo
AsoyinoyZ ‘ppnf ‘jy JleN Aq ydeisojoyg) ‘siopyinqasnoy
ueiquog Aq poysneyXxe ‘s}so10} ould poy, FO sdUesatd
J9WIOJ BY} SsouzIM sdumjs poekedop Ayjensted pue sso]
juanbearyur uoAUe) OOVYD) FO SoYyIUeIG IY} U[—'QOI “OT

168 SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VOL. 78

whose floor level lay 13 feet 6 inches (4.1 m.) below the present
valley surface. No one may say what chapters of human history still
lie buried beneath the alluvial floor of Chaco Canyon.

Mr. Roberts also superintended stratigraphic studies, authorized
by special permit from the Department of the Interior, in the rubbish
piles at the two major ruins known as Pueblo Alto and Penasco
Blanco. These enormous heaps consist principally of floor sweepings
containing ashes and fragments of pottery broken upon the hearth,
intermixed with blown sand and débris of reconstruction. Potsherds
are to the archeologist what fossils are to the geologist! The oldest
fragments lie at the bottom of the pile ; the latest, on top. The evolution
or decadence of pottery technique at any one site is thus represented
by a cross-section of its ash heap. In consequence of its studies at
Penasco Blanco and Pueblo Alto, the recent Pueblo Bonito Expedi-
tion has obtained data which illustrate not only the development of the
art of pottery manufacture in both villages but which also indicate
their probable positions in the chronology of Chaco Canyon. Mr.
Judd finds no reason to alter his original impression that Pueblo
Bonito was the earliest of the major Chaco Canyon villages and that
it was inhabited for a longer period than any of the others.

The method by which it is hoped to ascertain the absolute age
of Pueblo Bonito and Pueblo del Arroyo, namely, through study of
annual growth rings in their ancient roof timbers, is already familiar
to readers of the Smithsonian Explorations volume. These studies
have gone forward during the past field season under the direct super-
vision of Dr. A. E. Douglass, of the University of Arizona. The data
assembled by Dr. Douglass hold much of interest ; although his conclu-
sions may not yet be published, it is permissible to say that this phase
of the National Geographic Society’s explorations in Pueblo Bonito
is also certain of contributing to the prehistory of the southwestern
United States results not previously recorded.

INVESTIGATING EVIDENCE OF EARLY MAN IN FLORIDA

All research for the accumulation of knowledge pertaining to the
early history of man is of human interest, and especially so in that
part of it which reaches back into primitive time.

It has long been known that in Europe primitive tribes of the human
race for long centuries lived contemporaneously and were well ac-
quainted with many kinds of wild animals which are now extinct.
Among these animals were the hairy mammoth, the woolly rhinoceros,
the great cave bears, cave hyenas, wild horses, great oxen, ete. In
NO. 7 SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1926 169

America also human bones and artifacts have been found associated
with the remains of extinct animals of the Pleistocene Age. But
usually either the associations or the circumstances of discovery have
been of such a nature that doubt has been cast on the contemporaneity
of deposition of objects found in the same stratum, it being assumed
that the human remains and artifacts belonged to intrusion through
later burials or other accident.

While the general problems relating to the first appearances and
early development of man in America belong more properly to the
ethnologist, this phase of it comes definitely within the province of
mammalian paleontology and geology. Thus, members of these
sciences from time to time have taken an active part in investigation
of the evidences of early man in America. Perhaps the work in this
line that has aroused most interest in recent years is that carried
on by Dr. E. H. Sellards at Vero Beach, Florida. This work, which
followed the digging of a big drainage canal at that place, resulted
in the discovery of human remains and artifacts associated with fossil
bones of a Pleistocene fauna. Although careful observation was made
by Dr. Sellards and evidence was produced to show that the associa-
tion was normal, this evidence was not accepted by some of the
leading anthropologists as conclusive. After much discussion interest
in this discovery lagged for a time, but was revived again a few
years later by the discovery at Melbourne, about 30 miles north of
Vero, of associated fossil bones and human remains in similar de-
posits and under similar conditions to those observed at Vero. Fol-
lowing this discovery in the summer of 1925, a joint expedition under
the auspices of the Bureau of American Ethnology of the Smithsonian
Institution and Amherst College was organized for the purpose of
further research at Melbourne. I was detailed to cooperate with Prof.
I’, B. Loomis of Amherst in carrying out this work, and the six
weeks’ carefully directed field-work which followed revealed three
additional localities where human remains or artifacts were found
in direct association with bones of extinct species of animals. All
these finds, however, were at or near the top of the fossil bone-bearing
layer, and for this reason were not accepted by the anthropologists as
undisputed evidence of normal association.

Time and funds did not permit completing the exploration of these
important and extensive deposits at Melbourne, and in February of
the present year (1926) I was again temporarily transferred to the
Bureau of Ethnology and detailed to continue this work begun by the
Amherst-Smithsonian Expedition. Again lack of funds prevented
completing the investigation, but the six weeks’ work accomplished
170 SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VOL. 78

yielded very satisfactory results. In the additional fossil material
secured were specimens representing some important species new to
this locality, and the geologic observations made at this time are
proving to be valuable aids in the study of the general problems
involved. For example, one of the most important specimens obtained
on the previous expedition was a crushed human skull and jaws
which had been found associated with fossil bones. But the exact
position in the geological strata was not definitely determined, owing
to the fact that much of the overburden or covering layer had been

Fic. 170—Canal bank on golf course 2 miles west of Melbourne, Florida.
Crushed fossil human skull in situ in upper layer of fossil-bone-bearing
deposit. Skull is at right of trowel handle in middle foreground, as indi-
cated by arrow.

removed before the skull was discovered. At the time it was made
certain that the sedimentary layers above the specimen had previously
not been disturbed since their deposit, but it was not quite clear
whether the fossil skull belonged in the upper six inches of the
Pleistocene fossil-bearing deposit, as it appeared, or whether it lay
in the dividing zone between this bed and the overlying deposit. This
doubt was caused mainly by the fact that the upper 10 inches of the
lower bed was changed into a perceptibly darker hue than that
observed in the main mass below. Going back to this locality last
spring I extended the relatively small excavation which had been made
the previous summer, but concluded to follow a different plan than
NO. 7 SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1926 171

Fic. 171—Excavation trench exposing vertical section near spot where
was found human skull shown in figure 170. The undulating contact plane
is here plainly seen.

Fic. 172.—Section of the deposits near spot where was found human skull
shown in figure 170, showing the uneven bedding-plane between the lighter-
colored fossil-bearing deposit below and the later deposits above.
172 SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VOL. 78

Fic. 173.—Section on south bank of main canal about 3 miles west of Mel-
bourne, Florida. Point of trowel indicates pieces of Indian pottery im situ
in top layer of fossil-bone-bearing beds.

Fic. 174—Typical flat country in the vicinity of Melbourne, Florida, showing
scattered pines with heavy undergrowth of scrub-palmetto.
NO. 7 SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1926 173

Fic. 175.—“ Mulberry Mound.” An Indian burial mound and kitchen-midden
at the north end of Lake Poinsett, St. Johns River, west of Cocoa, Florida.

Fic. 176—Remnant of great Indian shell mound at Grant, Florida. This
mound before being excavated for road-building was about 1,000 ft. long, more
than 200 ft. wide, and in places 14 ft. deep. Dr. Henry M. Ami, of Ottawa,
Canada, is seen pointing to broken pottery im situ.
174. SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VOL. 78

that before adopted. Instead of stripping from the top, the exca-
vation was carried forward with nearly perpendicular walls so that the
formation could be studied in diagrammatic cross-section at all points.
In this way it was clearly observed: first, that the bone-bearing layer
was everywhere plainly distinguishable from the overlying strata;
second, that the separation, plane was uneven, showing there had been
an erosional interval between the two periods of deposition ; and third,
that the portion of the bone-bearing layer following the undulations of
the separation plane presented a uniformly darker color on top which
faded gradually into the light color of the formation below. This was
exactly the condition observed at the spot where the human skull was
taken, hence it may now be confidently stated that its original burial
place while near the top of this layer was definitely within it. It is
unfortunate that the investigation at Melbourne could not be con-
tinued. The field is a promising one and doubtless would amply repay
further exploration.
James W. GIDLEy.

ARCHEOLOGICAL AND ETHNOLOGICAL STUDIES IN
SOUMHEAST ALASKA

During April and May, 1926, H. W. Krieger, curator of ethnology
in the U. S. National Museum was detailed to the Bureau of American
Ethnology for the purpose of inspecting native houses and totem
poles at the National Monument of Old Kasaan, with a view to their
preservation. The National Monument of Old Kasaan was originally
established by Executive order in 1907 amplified by the Presidential
Proclamation of October 25, 1916. The monument thus established
contains the abandoned Haida Indian village of Kas-a-an and the
surounding forested area containing about 4o acres. It fronts on
Skaul arm of Kasaan Bay, on the east coast of Prince of Wales
Island, and is about 40 miles by motor boat from Ketchikan, the
largest town and the first port of call in Alaska for American steamers
out of Seattle.

Kasaan, like most of the native villages of southeast Alaska, is
abandoned, its former occupants having moved to fish-cannery towns
or to towns like Ketchikan where a number of occupations and indus-
tries await them. Indians of Alaska have adopted white man’s ways,
and have never been wards of the nation like the Indians assembled
on reservations within the United States. In accepting the new, how-
ever, they have forgotten or learned to disregard their own culture
with its splendid claim to distinction as possessing the most unique
and realistic examples of plastic sculpture of all aboriginal America.
« SOYPYS ,, TEPID HGS YPM pos9r0d st YOrYM “Foor ay} UO pajzou aq [[HS Aeu otuvIy a[OY ayYouws posseyo sy, “AeMarEIS
e Aq payover sutuedo [jews eB Ysnory} poured sem douRNUy ‘[[eM JUOIJ ay} UO SpivOq PpaMeS JOU SMOPUTM OU a7OM
aay} A][eUIsi1o pue ‘suo pjO Ue SI asnoYy oY], “a/v Jsvoy}NOs vB UT 9OURD sIy JO SuryooM oy} JOF uoreIpejer ut purA\
JSBIYINOS 94} JO se oy} Poluinsse OYM ‘(jsvayINOG) Jexlues Aq IING ‘uREsey ,‘sou-jny,, osnoF] ajSeq—ZZ1 ‘oLYT

175

‘PLORATIONS, 1926

E>

SMITHSONIAN

NO.
176 SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VOL. 78

The abandoned village of Kasaan today consists of the ruins of
houses and memorial columns. Many of the tall totem poles profusely
decorated with carvings of animal and human figures representing

Fic. 178.—Frame and roof timbers of Eagle
House “ hut-nes ” with “ Eagle King’s” totem pole
at the front. This house is the sole remaining
structure at Old Kasaan, and with the house of Jim
Peel at New Kasaan, is the only surviving native
house in southern southeast Alaska. Crests on
pole are: eagle, at top; beaver, at bottom; bear,
with protruding tongue, beaver, with large pro-
jecting upper incisor teeth, and figures illustrating
the myth of “Raven Traveling,’ at center. See

figs W775
the family crests are still standing. The region surrounding the aban-
doned village is virgin forest consisting of the giant cedar, spruce,
hemlock, and a few other species. The village site itself was over-

grown with alders and dense masses of the salmon berry. The salmon
berry looks delicious, but is somewhat flat to the taste and is extremely
NO. 7 SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1926 77,

perishable when picked. Several black bear were seen feeding on these
berries and on the succulent grasses within the shadow of the towering
memorial columns or totem poles. As the island is uninhabited for
many miles in the vicinity of the National Monument of Old Kasaan,

Fic. 179.—Side view of “ Eagle House” with
totem pole in foreground erected by a wealthy
woman “ Big Smoke Hole,” the first to encounter
white men; hence the crest representing a white
man at the top. Beneath this is Raven with the
moon in his beak. At bottom is the carved figure
of “Duchtut,’ the strong man, splitting open a
sea lion with his bare hands. See figs. 177 and 178.

game is rather abundant. Deer come down from the hills out of the
forest to feed on the grasses and wild celery near the water or wher-
ever there is a clearing. As there are literally hundreds of similarly
situated islands scattered all along the coast of southeast Alaska,
it has been thought that fox farming might prove a profitable industry.
Thus far, however, the industry is in an experimental stage.
178 SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VOL. 78

The view from the village of Kasaan is beautiful, looking out
towards the distant islands with their hills and occasional snow-capped
mountains, and the intervening water channels and inlets. If the
site of this ancient Indian village had originally been selected from

Fic. 180.—Interior of Eagle House. Two benches
or floor levels rise on each side of the centrally ex-
cavated pit. The hearth is at the center of the pit,
and the remainder of the floor including the two
benches is covered with split cedar slabs. See figs.

177-179.

the standpoint of beauty of location, the choice could hardly have been
excelled.

Kasaan was originally a village belonging to a rival tribe, the
Tlingit, who were probably driven away by the Haida, according to
their traditions, more than 100 years ago. The name Kasaan in the
Tlingit language means the “ village on the rock.” The Haida came
from the south, originally from the Queen Charlotte Islands far out
NO. 7 SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1926 179

to sea off the coast of British Columbia. The Haida Indians, like all
the tribes along this island-studded coast, were great travellers, making
journeys of hundreds of miles in their huge dugout war canoes, often
for the mere love of adventure, but usually in search of new fishing
grounds or to carry on trade with neighboring tribes. The Indian
had to follow the salmon to its new spawning places whenever for
unknown reasons it migrated to different spawning beds from those
near the Indian’s ancestral village. In his quest for food, the Alaska
Indian was often forced to abandon his well established village with
its large framed houses of split cedar slabs and decorative crested
totem poles.

The reason for the coming of the Haida to Old Kasaan was of
an entirely different order. Family life among them was communal
and consequently rather complicated. It often led its members into
difficulties. Each house was built large enough to accommodate two
or three generations, together with their slaves and retainers. The
house floor was arranged in platforms, each succeeding platform
being built on a level two or three feet higher, beginning at the
deeply excavated centrally located fireplace, until the outer platform
or the one next to the walls of the house was reached. This platform
was flush with the ground level on the outside. Each section of the
house was assigned to different divisions of the large family. The head
of the house, who was often the chief of the clan as well, together with
his wife occupied the place of honor on the platform back of the
carved house posts at the rear of the house. The slaves, strange to
say, gathered and slept at the front of the house nearest the only exit.

The fire burned at the center on the lowest part of the excavated
floor sections. In one house at old Fort Tongass there are nine
different levels excavated so that the fireplace at the center appears
from the front entrance to be at the bottom of a pit. The fireplace
is a squared section of bare earth or stone; coals and ashes raise it
a few inches above the floor level immediately surrounding, and it is
enclosed with a frame of hewn logs or slabs. On this level, about
the fire on the bare floor or on mats of woven cedar bark, with their
feet toward the fire, slept the members of the family during cold and
inclement weather.

The narrative of the coming of the Haida to Kasaan is an involved
one and includes a story of family dissension culminating in the mur-
der of one chief by his own brother, who was also his rival. The
murder caused the villagers to take sides and led to the removal of the
slayer and his adherents far to the north and to the ultimate settlement
of Old Kasaan.
180 SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VOL. 78

After an occupancy of considerably more than 100 years by the
Kaigani family of the Haida, Kasaan was abandoned. About the
year 1900 its entire population removed to the newly established vil-
lage of New Kasaan some 40 miles distant on another arm of the
same Kasaan Bay. This removal was due to the establishment of a
salmon cannery there and to the offer of good wages during the
canning season. This proved too much of an inducement to the Kas-
aan natives who were only too ready to adopt white man’s ways and
wages and who had already forgotten most of their ancestral lore in

Fic. 181.—Western end of Old Kasaan showing cemetery with carved
memorial columns representing the family crests of killer-whale, sea lion,
eagle, and bear. The dense forest growth in the background is mostly Douglas
spruce, hemlock, and yellow cedar.

woodcraft and decorative art. No new totem pole has been built for
more than 50 years and the art of totem pole carving is lost to the
present generation.

As Kasaan appears today, after being abandoned for more than
a quarter of a century, there is practically nothing remaining to
remind one of its former glory but a row of tall totem poles facing
the beach, still standing as erect as they were when placed there many
years ago. The most recently erected pole is more than 50 years old
and remains in a fair state of preservation. Many of the older poles
still have sound heart wood, although the incised surface carvings
crumble to the touch. The oldest poles have completely rotted away
NO. 7 SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1926 181

leaving mere traces. It was the duty of the writer to attempt to
preserve these realistically carved representations of human and ani-
mal figures and the totem pole itself wherever possible.

The task of restoring the abandoned village of Kasaan is practically
an impossibility owing to the deterioration and decay of many years.
No repair work has ever before been done. Houses have with one
exception completely fallen into ruins. The Indians never repainted
their memorial columns, once the pole was erected. The rotting
process is practically continuous throughout the year. This may be
better realized when one considers the number of rainy days in a year,

Fic. 182.—Central section of Old Kasaan as it appeared in 1924. Eagle House
may be seen on the left, while the front house posts and roof beams of another
house, “ More-back House,” is visible in the background on the right.

reaching a total of 235 at Ketchikan, the nearest observing station.
Winters are mild and are hardly severe enough to freeze the rank
vegetation. Alders and salmon berry bushes grow in profusion and
have completely hidden from view the fallen timbers of the house
frames. Large cedars and spruces grow out of what was once a house
interior. In one case a cedar sprang up at the base of the hollowed
back of a totem pole, and it has now grown up and filled the hollowed
cavity, splitting the totem pole which still adheres to the living tree,
forming two decorative panels. All remaining poles which were worth
preserving were scraped. The rotted wood was removed and the pole
was then given a treatment of creosote. No attempt to paint the poles
in their original colors was attempted, as such expense would hardly
182 SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VoL. 78

be justified unless tourist travel should increase materially and a care-
taker could be maintained to keep down the alders and salmon
berry brush so as to prevent any future danger of destruction by fire
during the short dry season in the fall of the year. At Wrangell, at
Ketchikan, and in the park at Sitka there are poles which have been
repainted in their original colors. Attempts have been made to use the
old native colors which consist of red ochre, chrome yellow, and a
mordant composed of water and a gluey mass derived from crushed
salmon eggs. These colors and several other native coloring agents
produced a well blended effect and are not the glaring paints pro-
duced by modern white and red leads. Pigments derived from the
mineral coloring matter in rocks and ores were formerly much used
by the natives. The Indian was indeed an artist who was capable of
carving the designs on the totem pole according to highly convention-
alized patterns, and who also had the technical knowledge required to
procure the proper paints and to properly apply them to the patterned
designs in the conventional style.

The totemic memorial columns of tall cedars represent the highest
achievement of the Northwest coast Indian. They were also his show
property. If the Indian who wished to erect a memorial pole in honor
of his maternal uncle was himself incapable of the task, he employed
an expert or artist. These skilled wood carvers took as much as a year
to complete the task. For his guidance, the native artist had a com-
plicated set of pattern designs in wood. These panels were incised
with sections of the conventional designs. It became thus the task
of the artist to carefully fit these patterns to the pole to be carved,
special effort being made to estimate the proper size of the pole, the
entire front surface of which must be covered with the carved figures.
No essential part of the animal figure crest must be omitted, although
if cramped for space the figures were so highly conventionalized that
what might appear to us as essential parts of the animal or human
figure represented were often omitted, and no one was offended for
all understood what was intended. It was high art with futuristic
leanings. Then too the carver had to take into consideration the
number of animal totems or crests to which the owner was entitled.
If the one in whose honor the pole was being prepared was a great
man in the village, he probably had so many totemic crests that the
problem was one of overcrowding. If, on the other hand, there were
not enough crests to fill the space of the front of the pole, the artist
probably suggested that a smaller pole be selected. If this was not
done, he could conveniently fill in the spaces between the animal crest
carvings with representations of frogs and the ground worm. No
NO. 7 SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1926 183

one claimed these lowly creatures as their animal protector, nor repre-
sented them among their crests. It was, moreover, an unpardonable
offense against the amenities to have on one’s pole more totems or
crests than one was entitled to.

It is customary among the Tlingit and Tsimshian Indians to erect
their totem poles several feet in front of their dwellings or in line
several feet to the right or left of the house. At old Tongass village
the writer found in front of the ruins of one of the largest houses in
the village a number of poles which had been erected in honor of
several maiden aunts of the former occupant of the house. The Haida
at Kasaan built their totem poles in contact with the front of the
house itself, a hole two or three feet square cut through the base of
the pole serving as entrance to the house, ingress being possible only
by crawling.

Occasionally a niche about one foot square was cut at the hollowed
back of the pole some 15 feet above the ground. Into this recessed
niche was placed a carved or painted box containing the cremated
remains of the former head of the house in whose honor the pole
had been erected. Several of such grave boxes were seen by the writer
in the poles at Kasaan and at Village Island, another abandoned
village.

The houses at Kasaan were placed in an irregular long row facing
the shelving beach. The totem poles at the front of the houses are
almost at the water’s edge at high tide. The action of the salt water
on the base of the pole undoubtedly served as a preservative of the
wood as all the poles thus situated are still free from decay at their
base while those farther removed from the beach are much rotted and
decayed at the base.

The frame work of the house and the roof usually rest upon four
posts commonly hollowed out at the back. Upon these house posts rest
two enormous unhewn log plates sometimes each more than 50 feet
long. These unhewn plates extend horizontally the entire length of
the building without any other support than that of the end posts.
These huge plates, the purlines, the hewn cedar planks for the side
walls, “ shakes” for the roof, and the logs for the posts and carved
columns must be gathered from the forest with great labor, sometimes
being brought from a considerable distance. They were towed to the
village site where they were hauled up on skids. Forests of southeast
Alaska are quite irregular, the large cedar and the spruces growing
only in certain favored places where soil deposits are thick enough
above the rock substratum to support their growth. Southeast Alaska
will never prove a satisfactory place for farming operations as no-
184 SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VOL .78

where is the soil deep enough for the plow. The work of smooth
finishing and assembling of timbers is undertaken at the site of the
house to be erected.

Fic. 183.—Rear corner post of “ More-back
House” which was erected by Chief Skaul. The
carved figures at top and bottom represent the
bear, a crest often used by members of the
Raven clan. At Kasaan, the raven crest was
the vogue with adherents of the Eagle clan who
lived for the most part in the western half of
the village. The carved figure at the center of
the post has to do with the adventures of Raven
and the moon. See fig. 182.

Erection of a totem pole or a house was the occasion for much
feasting and jollification by the Indians, calling to mind those social
gatherings which attended barn raisings in colonial days in the United
States. The day of the erection of the house was made known to the
natives of neighboring villages sometimes months in advance. All
NO. 7 SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1926 185

those who were invited to attend the event were expected to cooperate
in the work of erecting the frame and posts. Rivalry sometimes
developed between competing clans, each of which was assigned a
different log plate to place into position.

Fic. 184.—All that remains of “ Furthest
Forward House” at Kasaan. Unusual form
of house post carving.

The posts, never more than 1o feet high, are first raised into posi-
tion by means of rope guys and props and firmly planted in deep holes.
The log plates are next put into position with skids and parbuckles.
Before the posts are firmly planted in the ground, the head of each
is cut out to the shape of a crescent so as to exactly fit the log plate
which is to rest on it. The plate is then rolled to within working dis-
tance of the posts and parallel to its final position. The posts are
braced on the opposite side, while on the near side skids are rested
186 SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VOL. 78

at an angle to form an incline up which the log plate is rolled. Ropes
are rove over the top of the post, under and over the log, then back
again over the post. The ropes serve as a parbuckle, take the weight
of the log and hold it in position. Forked pike poles are rested against
the log with their other ends in the ground to help the parbuckle take
the weight as the plate is gradually rolled up, the poles being shifted
as it rises. The combined efforts of the workers suffice to get the
plate to the top of the incline. By means of pushing with poles and
by pulling on the parbuckle the log is finally rolled into the rounded
notch at the top of the house post. According to old accounts this
work was conducted with much confusion, shouting, and sometimes
fighting. The clan which finished first taunted their competitors who
were still struggling to get the other log into position. The entire
procedure, together with the festivities that followed the completion
of the task, was the cause of much bad blood between neighboring
villages.

The erection of memorial columns or totem poles was accomplished
by means of poles, props, and rope guys in much the same manner
that construction gangs erect telephone and telegraph poles. The
essential difference is in the use of a forked pike pole by the Indians,
the more modern method using steel-capped pike poles and the block
and tackle.

Long hewn plates are grooved or beveled to receive the upper and
lower ends of the split slabs forming the side and front and rear
walls of the house. The top purlines form the supports for the roof
which is made up of “ shakes’ or slabs of wood and bark held down
by superimposed cross pieces and by rocks. In some of the newer
houses at Kasaan the writer found large copper spikes and some made
from wrought iron which held the spliced beams and girders in place.
Usually there were only wooden pins and pegs placed at strategic
points. The method relied on most for holding the framework together
was dovetailing or the placing of interlocking mortises at the places
of juncture of all beams and girder plates. Mere weight sufficed to
keep the two huge main log plates in position.

The smoke hole is surmounted by a shutter which is closed in the
direction of the wind. The shutter has a motion about the axle.
When the wind changes and blows down the smoke hole a chain or
rope is pulled and the shutter revolves to the other position against
the wind. As the house faces the beach, and the wind usually blows
up or down channel, the shutter faces one side or other rather than
the front or rear of the house.
NO. 7 SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1926 187

In the more recent years of their occupancy of Kasaan and other
villages which are now abandoned, long voyages were undertaken by
the natives to Port Simpson, at the head of Dixon Entrance, in British
Columbia, for sawed boards and hardware to make a false front for
their houses after the fashion of the houses of white men with a
door and windows. This custom is reminiscent of the old pioneer store
of early villages in the West, when the false store front with its high
squared and impressive top section was almost an institution. It must
be conceded that the old style of Indian house with its entrance
through the base of the totem pole and its huge open smoke hole at
the center of the roof, although minus windows, was architecturally
more of a unit than the later Indian houses with their hardware and
windows from Port Simpson.

During a recent visit by the writer to the village of New Kasaan,
rather deplorable conditions with regard to ventilation and sanitation
of native houses were observed. The Indian of today in southeast
Alaska lives in a house built of sawed boards throughout. There are
windows enough, but they are kept closed against the damp air with-
out. There is invariably a stove in the center of the living room which
consumes quantities of oxygen. If one were forced to choose between
the evils of the cold unlighted slab side native Indian house and the
poorly ventilated, unsanitary house of the Indian of today one would
not hesitate in preferring the old purely native type of dwelling
which was at once both health producing and artistically beautiful.

ARCHEOLOGICAL INVESTIGATIONS IN THE COLUMBIA
RIVER VALLEY

During the spring and early summer months of 1926 a regional
archeological survey of the middle and upper Columbia River valley
was made by H. W. Krieger, curator of ethnology in the U. S. Na-
tional Museum, on detail to the Bureau of American Ethnology. The
project began with a study of the extensive collections obtained by
members of the Columbia River Archeological Society from burials
and surface finds at various ancient and historic Indian village sites
and cemeteries.

Most noteworthy among the collections studied are those of Mr.
H. T. Harding, of Walla Walla, Washington ; of Messrs. Earl Sim-
mons, Gibson, and Charles Simpson, of Quincy, Washington ; and of
Messrs. A. H. East, O. B. Brown, Guy C. Browne, Drs. R. T. Cong-
don, and T. H. Grosvenor, all of Wenatchee, Washington. Other
collections studied are those of Dr. F. C. Evertsbusch and others at
Pateros, Washington, the Eells collection at Whitman College, and

13
188 SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VOL. 78

the extensive material collected by Dr. F. S. Hall and others for the
State Museum, at Seattle. Enthusiastic interest in the project was
shown by members of the Columbia River Archeological Society and
others who have done pioneer work in locating many ancient villages
and burial sites and in gathering and classifying many different types

MNS itn ie

Dad

’
me
ae 4: a bess

Fic. 185.—View along the Columbia River at Vantage Ferry, Grant
County, Washington. Many pictographs and petroglyphs appear on the
western escarpment of columnar basalt near the water’s edge. The low-
lying bench land to the left was the site of a large pit house village.

of archeological material. Information as to location of sites and
distribution of type specimens was in every instance cheerfully given.

The next step in the survey was the plotting of an archeological map
of the Columbia and tributary valleys showing known village sites
and cemeteries. A check was made on data already collected, amplified
in several instances by a visit to the reported location of an isolated
pit house ruin, village site, or cremation burial.
Fic, 186.—Petroglyphs pecked on the columnar basaltic rock
escarpment of the Columbia River at Vantage Ferry, Beverly,
and Rock Island, Washington.

189
190

SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VOL.

Fic. 187.—Petroglyphs pecked on the columnar basaltic rock
escarpment of the Columbia River at Vantage Ferry, Beverly,
and Rock Island, Washington.

78
NO. 7 SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1926 IgI

The necessity for obtaining an archeological map of the valley at
this time becomes apparent upon noting that the Indian village site
is also the most favored location chosen by the modern orchardist for
his planting. The reason for this lies in the need for protection,
shelter, and an adequate water supply. A young orchard can best be
successfully developed on a narrow level river bench which is high
enough to be secure against seasonal flood waters and near enough
to the towering escarpment of the river for shelter from the winds
which sweep over the plateau above. It was just this type of narrow
bench land, situated above danger from floods, and close to the precipi-

Fic. 188.—Gap in the gorge of the Columbia River where the Saddle
Mountain range crosses at right angles to the river at the head of Priest
Rapids. On the far bank of the river at the left was located the village of
Smohalla, a leader in the Ghost Dance cult. Saddle mountains separated
in historic times the territory of the Shahaptian Indians from that of the
Salish tribes.

tous basaltic or lava capped river escarpment which was selected by the
prehistoric occupant of the Columbia valley as a location for his
permanent winter home. Here, also, under the well-nigh inaccessible
barrier of the cliffs the primitive village group was secure from attack
by marauding hostile bands.

As the middle and upper Columbia River valley is semiarid and
barren to a degree, an adequate water supply 1s essential. The bench
land selected as a village site must be neither too high nor the banks
too steep to preclude easy access to the river. On the sloping beach
below the bench were obtained useful varieties of stone pebbles, float
bowlders, and drift wood.

The mapping of archeological stations along the middle and upper
Columbia and tributary rivers, such as the lower Yakima, Snake,
192 SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VOL. 78

Walla Walla, Deschutes, Wenatchee, Methow, Okanogan and others
began at the Dalles, in the state of Oregon, and continued to the
environs of Kettle Falls, near the Canadian border. The falls and
gorge of the Columbia River in the vicinity of the Dalles where the
Columbia breaks through the Cascades, mark the beginning of the
wooded area of the lower river which possessed an equally well
marked distinct type of native culture, the Indian tribes there using
principally wood in their arts and crafts, and the tribes of the middle
and upper river being expert stone cutters and workers in horn and
bone. Accompanied by Mr. H. T. Harding, a section of the river was
covered as far north as Wenatchee. Mr. Harding’s assistance was in-
valuable as he is intimately acquainted with the archeology of the
region due to many years of experience in the field. Traces of Indian
occupation are being rapidly obliterated by the plow, which is today
the most productive excavator of antiquities. Where land has been
brought under the plow, no record of former village sites and ceme-
teries is available other than that collected by members of the Columbia
River Archeological Society.

Of the many sites inspected, excavation was undertaken at eight.
The site yielding the largest collection of material such as ceremonial
burial offerings and skeletal material was the prehistoric site at
Wahluke in Grant County. There was no evidence of the burials there
ever having been disturbed. Neither was there any indication of Hud-
son Bay Company influence in the objects recovered from the graves,
such as trade beads of glass or of the shell beads which in historic
times were traded to the Indians as a substitute for the Dentalium
indianorum, or of iron tools and weapons.

The village of Wahluke is located on the east bank of the Colum-
bia in Grant County, at a point where the river, which at this part of
its course flows north, strikes a precipitous escarpment formed of
yellowish gray volcanic débris and ash, known as White Bluffs. The
Columbia here changes its course to a general southeasterly direction
and completes the final segment of the course known as the big bend.
Wahluke lies well within the territory occupied by the Shahaptian-
speaking tribes within historic times, although early accounts and
evidence obtained from the nature of the burial offerings indicated
that in prehistoric times the entire area on the north and west bank of
the Columbia as far south as the Dalles was Salish territory.

White Bluffs, which lies hard against the northern end of Wahluke,
is a continuation of a range of hills known locally as Saddle Mountains
from the fact that the range extending from west to east lies at right
angles to the Columbia where it breaks through the narrow gorge just
NON, SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1926 193

below the confluence of Crab Creek, about 40 miles up the river from
Wahluke. The old Indian term Wahluke is said to mean “ where one
can see and watch.” If this is the correct meaning of the word, it
would explain the term Sentinel Mountains, a name still applied to
the same range. The flat east bank of the river opposite Wahluke

Fic. 189.—One of the many caves in the lava and vesiculate basalt bluffs of
the Columbia River. Such caves were used as temporary habitations by hunt-
ing and fishing parties, also by bats. This cave, as may be seen, is half filled
with debris composed of charred bat guano, camp refuse, such as fabrics, mats,
and cooking stones, together with weapon parts and tools.

was known to the Indians as Yanuke “ the place where animals come
to the water and drink.”

Burials at Wahluke were mostly primary and ceremonial cremation
in type. Graves were placed in irregular rows along the river beach
up-stream from the village proper. But one site along the river is
known where a village had been built on top of a site and cemetery
194 SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VOL. 78

Fic. 190.—A Wanapum or Columbia River Indian mother and two children
in front of their tule mat covered tipi. The dog is of the type formerly kept
by these Indians for the use of their shaggy coat of hair in blanket making.

My.

Fic. 191.—Shahaptian Indian sweat house built up of tule reeds with matting
of cat-tail rushes and covered over with earth. Still used by the Wanapum or
Columbia River Indians. Located at the Lower Falls of the Yakima River,
Benton County, Washington.

alt
INOS 7/ SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 19206 195

of an older date. This location, known as Simmon’s graveyard is
about five miles down-stream from Trinidad, the point where the Great
Northern Railway crosses the Columbia. The flood waters of the
river had covered the cemetery to a depth of six or more feet. A pit
house village is erected over and immediately above it. At many places

lic. 192—Looking south from interior of Eagle
House, Kasaan, across McKenzie Inlet, Kasaan Bay.
Pete Williams, a Tlingit Indian belonging to Eagle
clan, standing in foreground. See figs. 177-180.

along the Columbia there are similar strata of sedimentary deposits,
each covering the burn and other evidence of the existence of a camp
site or burial ground. These strata were formed at intervals of several
years, probably generations. Temporary fishing camps which were
abandoned at the close of the fishing season were left with camp débris,
fragments of shell and other kitchen debris such as charred cooking
stones, charcoal, and stone and bone implements. Some of these sites
196 SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VOL. 78

are again exposed in later years when the stream forms a new channel
or the flood waters erode the banks. At Pateros, the confluence of
the Methow with the Columbia, seven layers of burn with intervening

Fic. 193.—Tipi used by the Wanapum or Columbia River Indians at the
Lower Falls of the Yakima River, Benton County, Washington. The
habitation is a temporary one and is constructed of tule reeds covered with
skins and burlap. The old type of semisubterranean pit house was aban-
doned before the time of the Lewis and Clark expedition.

sedimentary deposits are exposed on the flanks of a little island formed
on the Methow side of the channel.
NO: 7 SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1926 197

Cremation graves are usually three or more feet below the surface
when undisturbed. A layer of flat stones was invariably placed in
oblong or circular form as a protective cover against marauding ani-
mals and erosion of the loose sand bench formation by the action of
the wind. Loose sand with a slight covering of soil or sometimes dry
powdery volcanic debris makes up the formation of the bench above
the river bank. This was excavated with crude shovel-shaped paddles
of stone, or with the hand aided by the digging stick. The body to

be cremated was placed on a piece of matting of Indian hemp, tule

Fic. 194—A prehistoric Indian grave at Wahluke, Grant County, Wash-
ington. The burial is protected with a circular ring of bowlders which have
been carried up from the river beach. Among the many ceremonial burial
offerings found within this grave were no objects such as glass beads or iron
knives which might indicate Hudson Bay Company influence.

reeds, or cat-tail rushes. About the body, which was oriented some-
times with head up-stream, sometimes to the east, or, again apparently
haphazard, were arranged the personal belongings of the dead. The
pyre was built up of logs of driftwood. Many of the objects placed
in the grave are merely charred; others, including the skeletal ma-
terial, are completely burned or calcined. No indications of burial
houses such as were erected by the tribes on the lower river were found
at Wahluke or elsewhere on the middle Columbia.

In some instances the skeletons were oriented in such position as to
suggest secondary burial, parts of several skeletons in such cases being
198 SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VOL. 78

Fig. 195.—Stages in the production of a pipe. Beginning at the lower left
may be seen a roughly cut and grooved section of steatite. The next step shows
the tubular outline formed by crumbling and pecking; the third object is
perforate and shows polishing, while the pipe at the right is complete except
for the reed mouthpiece which is not shown. The steatite bowl pipe at the top
right is modern and is made from a design showing influence of trade pipes.
All obtained from graves at various sites along the Columbia River by Mr.
AX, lal, I8eisie

Fic. 196.—Types of stone pipes found in graves at various sites in the Colum-
bia River valley, in the state of Washington. The tubular soapstone pipe at the
right indicates contact with Californian tribes, while the three tubular soap-
stone pipes at the center are the type made by the ancient inhabitants of the
Columbia and Fraser river valleys. The bowl pipe with carving of human
face at the side is of the type made by the tribes of the northwest Pacific coast.
The large catlinite bowl pipe with inlay of lead around the margin may have
come from the Sioux or other tribes of the Plains.
NO. 7 SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1926 199

jumbled all in a heap. Individual cremation burials were never secon-
dary, the burial being effected with knees flexed and skull facing
downward. Incineration was usually so complete as to prevent the
securing of any one complete skeleton. Several fragments of charred
skeletons including several skulls were recovered from the burn, pro-
viding sufficient material to reconstruct later at the Museum. Skulls
showed in every case a frontal-occipital deformation. Skulls from
graves other than at Wahluke do not always show this deformation,

Fic. 197.—Frame of Salish type of sweat house on west bank of the
Columbia River six miles below Pateros.

leading to the assumption that the practice was not general. The phy-
sical type is that of the tribes which occupied the upper plateau country
within historic times. Skulls found in graves accompanied by cere-
monial offerings having a distinctly Hudson Bay Company aspect,
such as trade beads of glass, and metal objects of copper, brass, and
iron, were in every instance of the same type as those occurring in pre-
historic graves.

Many of the objects found in the burn among the charcoal and
charred bones were objects of daily use in the life of the Plateau
Indian of historic times. Most of the larger pieces as bowls and
pestles were intentionally broken at burial. Objects found included
200 SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VOL. 78

basketry, matting, objects of stone, wood, bone, horn, shell, human
and dog hair, and hammered nuggets of native copper. No pottery
was made by the ancient occupants of the upper Columbia valley, nor
were utensils or bowls of wood discovered. This seems strange when it
is noted that other objects shaped from driftwood occur in the graves
intact ; also many ornamental objects formed from jade, dentalium,
haliotis, soft slate, and lead inlay, all of which must have been brought
from the Pacific coast, British Columbia, or Alaska. It would appear
from this that the burials at Wahluke are of a date preceding that of
the wood-working tribes of the lower Columbia.

ARCHEOLOGICAL WORK IN LOUISIANA AND MISSISSIPPI

Mr. Henry B. Collins, Jr., assistant curator of ethnology, U. S.
National Museum, was engaged from the middle of April to the latter
part of June in archeological field-work in Mississippi and Louisiana
for the Bureau of American Ethnology. The greater part of this
period was given to investigations along the Louisiana Gulf Coast,
a region which was practically unknown from an archeological stand-
point. This section of Louisiana is but slightly above sea level and
consists for the most part of great stretches of marsh, habitable only
along the narrow ridges of comparatively high land that border the
many lakes and bayous. It is not a region which might be expected
to have supported either a large or a very highly developed aboriginal
population, and yet unmistakable evidence was found that in pre-
Columbian times Indians had lived here in considerable numbers,
and that some of them possessed a culture closely allied or identical in
general to that found throughout the widespread mound area to the
east and north.

The investigations were begun at Pointe a la Hache, on the Mis-
sissippi River about 40 miles below New Orleans. About five miles
southwest of Pointe a la Hache was found an important group of
mounds, nine in number, the largest of which was between 40 and 50
feet high, over a hundred feet in diameter, conical in shape, and
with a flat top. The other mounds were lower but were of considerable
basal diameter and were all covered with an almost impenetrable
growth of palmettos, vines, briars, and other vegetation. These
mounds had been built on a ridge of land at the very edge of the
marsh and their location was known to only a few fishermen and
trappers.

From Pointe a la Hache, Mr. Collins proceeded to Houma, in Terre-
bonne Parish, and examined a number of mounds and shell heaps.
NO. 7 SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1926 201

Here he was fortunate in having the co-operation of Mr. Randolph A.
Bazet, who is deeply interested in the local archeology and who was
able to supply valuable information on the many earth mounds and
shell deposits of Terrebonne Parish. Such remains were found in
unexpected numbers along the lakes and bayous, ranging from com-
paratively small accumulations of shells mixed with charcoal, pot-
sherds, bones and other refuse to huge deposits of the same material,
or “islands” as they are locally called, sometimes a hundred yards
or more wide, about 10 feet above the marsh level, and extending in
some cases for a distance of almost a quarter of a mile. These Terre-

Fic. 198—Mound on the Fairview Plantation, Berwick, La. About six
feet below the surface was a thin stratum of fire-burned earth in which were
found seven pits or fireplaces.

bonne Parish shell heaps, or kitchen middens, and the others
throughout southern Louisiana, are composed almost entirely of the
shells of a small brackish water clam, Rangia cuneata, which is very
common in the bayous and lakes of the Gulf region. They represent
merely the accumulated kitchen refuse of the Indians who once lived
along these water ways. The clams were eaten, and the shells, along
with other trash, were cast aside until in the course of time an ex-
tensive heap was formed.

After devoting some to days to the mounds and shell heaps of
Terrebonne Parish, investigation was made of those to the west and
north, at Gibson, Lake Palourde, Bayou ?Ours, Berwick, Charenton
and Avery Island. Having examined and carried on minor excava-
202 SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VOL. 78

tions at these localities, Mr. Collins continued westward to Pecan
Island in the southern part of Vermillion Parish where he remained
for three weeks.

Pecan Island, lying between White Lake and the Gulf, is a long
narrow strip of land, averaging less than 200 yards in width, and
extending across the marsh for fifteen miles in a general east and
west direction. It is the same type of formation as Grand Chenier
and other narrow parallel ridges of land found in the marsh region
which have resulted from storm wave action throwing up old beach
material such as sand and finely crushed shell. Pecan Island today

e

%

ee ere

lic. 199.—Mound on the property of Mr. Ulysses Veazey, Pecan Island,
Vermillion Parish, La.

supports a population of some 400 people, whose only means of com-
munication with the outside world is by the mail boat which makes the
57-mile trip from Abbeville once a week. That it was also inhabited
by Indians at an early date 1s shown by the presence of 21 artificial
mounds and considerable quantities of potsherds and other surface
refuse on the island. These mounds proved to be of two distinct
groups, those on the property of Mr. J. Morgan, four in number,
being the larger, with an average basal diameter of over 100 feet
and a height ranging from five to twenty-five feet. These four mounds
were stratified, with several thick layers of crushed shell and sand
(the material of which the island is largely composed) separated by
thin strata of soil mixed with charcoal, animal bones and other debris,
NO. 7 SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1926 203

Fic. 200.—At its eastern end Pecan Island divides into several long
narrow ridges. This view shows the main ridge viewed from Cypre’s
Point, from which it is here separated by a stretch of marsh.

Fic. 201—Small mound surrounded by marsh at Cypress Point, on Pecan
Island, La.

14
204 SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VOL. 78

thus revealing successive levels of occupancy and affording a clear
picture of the manner in which the mounds were constructed. The
mounds of the second type, most of which were on the property of
Mr. Ulysses Veazey, were unstratified. Human bones were found in
two of the large Morgan mounds and in one mound on the Veazey

Fic. 202.—Detached skulls in Copell burial
ground on Pecan Island. The bones when
uncovered were soft and usually broken, but
all skulls, some fifty in number, were saved
and have been repaired.

place. The skulls from the former locality were all of the well-known
“ flat-head ” type, which resulted from the practice of tightly binding
the head during infancy. Skulls from the Veazey mound and those
from another burial ground on the property of Mr. John Copell,
which proved to belong to the same culture, were for the most part
undeformed. A similar distinction was observed in the material re-
NO. 7 SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1926 205

covered from these mounds, indicating that the two types represented
different cultures. The objects associated with burials in the Veazey
mounds and the Copell cemetery, while not especially abundant, were
typical of those usually found in mounds in other parts of the country.
These included chipped stone and worked bone arrowpoints ; the bone
end of an atlatl or “ spear thrower ”’; beads and other ornaments of
shell ; large double-disk or spool shaped ear ornaments of slate covered
with native sheet copper; various types of worked stone, shell and
bone implements ; lumps of galena ; hematite ; bitumen ; and decorated
potsherds of a characteristic type. The Morgan mounds, on the other
hand, produced no such material, but the invariable flattening of the

Fic. 203.—Large kitchen-midden, or shell heap, on Chenier du Fond, south
of Grand Lake, Cameron Parish, Louisiana.

skulls, the different construction of the mounds themselves, and the
quite distinctive type of pottery, all point clearly to a different culture.

Pecan Island was the most western point on the Louisiana coast at
which artificial mounds were found, but kitchen middens were found
to continue westward and there are evidences that these extend well
into Texas. After examining the aboriginal remains as far west as
Grand Chenier in Cameron Parish, Mr. Collins returned eastward and
began excavation of a group of three large mounds on the property
of Mr. Adolph Melanson, at Gibson, in northern Terrebonne Parish.
These mounds were stratified in much the same manner as the four
large mounds on Pecan Island, and although a few burials were found
in one of them it was obvious that all three had been erected primarily
for habitation purposes.
206 SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VOL. 78

Considering the evidence thus obtained by reconnoissance and exca-
vation in the Louisiana Gulf Coast region, several points of interest
develop. First, there is here found the most southern and western
extension thus far recorded of the wide-spread and highly developed
mound culture of the Mississippi Valley and Gulf States. The im-
mediate cultural affiliations of this southern Louisiana mound area is
seen to be toward the east, forming a direct connection along the Gulf
Coast with Florida. The strongest evidence for this deduction is found
in the pottery, certain types of which are practically identical from
Florida to western Louisiana; these consist of the ‘‘ checker-board ”
design, produced by the application of a stamp, and of enlarged rims
bearing characteristic incised and punctate decoration. The exact
identification of the builders of these Louisiana mounds and shell
heaps will, of course, be difficult. The western part of the Louisiana
coast, including Pecan Island, was inhabited in historic times by the
Attacapa, a cannabalistic tribe of low culture. They could hardly have
been the people responsible for either of the two Pecan Island cul-
tures. However, they may have left behind some of the shell heaps
here described, although the shell heaps cannot as a class be separated
culturally from the earthen mounds. Further to the east were the
Chitimacha, much more advanced than the Attacapa, and if the
descendants of the prehistoric mound-building tribes of southern
Louisiana are to be sought nearby, the Chitimacha might well fit into
the rdle. The undoubted cultural connection with the coastal regions
of Mississippi, Alabama and Florida, however, suggest the strong
possibility that there may have been a direct tribal movement in one
direction or the other.

The Louisiana work was completed about the middle of June, when
Mr. Collins proceeded to Marion County in southern Mississippi and
located seven ancient Indian village sites. From there he went to
eastern Mississippi and succeeded in locating the sites of two old
Choctaw villages, which were described by French and English ex-
plorers as early as 1729, but the present locations of which were
unknown. These villages were Chickachae in Clarke County and
Okatalaya in Newton County. The potsherds from these village sites
were of the same type as those found on other historic Choctaw
sites in 1925. This is a ceramic type which is restricted to compara-
tively recent Choctaw sites and which is quite different from the
earlier mound pottery

On July t Mr. Collins proceeded to Philadelphia, Miss., to con-
tinue the anthropometric studies of the living Choctaw begun in the
NO. 7 SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1926 207

summer of 1925. The present investigation was made possible by
an appropriation from the American Association for the Advancement
of Science. Seventy-two adult Choctaws of both sexes were measured,
which number, together with those obtained in 1925, affords an ade-
quate idea of the physical type of the modern Choctaw. The number
of Choctaw still remaining in Mississippi is around 1,000. Unlike
some other Indian tribes they are not mixing to any great extent with
whites, nor have they done so for some years past. However, they
are far from being full blooded as a group, due to infiltration of
white and negro blood at an early date.

sige Sa
tesla en oe
tee

Itc. 204.—Group of Choctaw Indians of the Conehatta district, Newton
County, Miss. Mr. T. J. Scott of the Choctaw Agency, in back row.

Among those whose interest and co-operation aided the work in
Louisiana and Mississippi, particular thanks are due to Senator E. S.
Broussard ; Father Girault, of Pointe a la Hache, La.; Mr. R. A. Bazet
and Dr. Marmande, Houma; Mr. J. A. Pharr and Mr. W. B. Reed,
Morgan City; Mr. and Mrs. Sidney Bradford and Miss Sarah
Mclhenny, Avery Island ; Prof. C. S. Brown, University, Miss. ; Mr.
T. J. Scott, Philadelphia, Miss.; and Mr. Rufus Terral, Quitman,
Miss.

ARCHEOLOGICAL FIELD-WORK IN ARIZONA

During the summer of 1926, from the closing days of May to the
end of August, Dr. J. Walter Fewkes, Chief of the Bureau of Ameri-
can Ethnology, excavated and repaired a little known ruin about six
208 SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VOL. 78

and a half miles east of Flagstaff, at the base of Elden Mesa. To
this ruin he gave the name Elden Pueblo. He was assisted in this
field-work by Mr. J. P. Harrington, ethnologist, and Mr. A. W. Wild-
ing, stenographer, both of whom contributed to the success of the
expedition. Valuable assistance was rendered by Mr. J. C. Clarke,
Custodian of the Wupatki National Monument, and by Prof. H. S.
Colton, of the University of Pennsylvania, both of whom spent much
time at the ruin and aided in many ways. These gentlemen called
Dr. Fewkes’ attention to the clearing in the pine trees that in-
dicated the site of a prehistoric building which had been long suspected
by a few local residents. The discovery of Elden Pueblo, or rather the
demonstration that the clearing indicated a pueblo site, was an im-
portant one, since it opened up an extensive area where many small
ruins occur but of which practically nothing is known save obscure
sites. The work at Elden Pueblo developed a new type of building
characteristic of the region south of the Grand Canyon and west of
the Little Colorado, extending west and south to the Lower Gila, the
massive ruins of which, known as compounds, attracted attention as
far back as the beginning of the seventeenth century.

This pueblo was called by Prof. Colton, Sheep Hill Ruin,’ but
has been given its present name from the mesa which towers over it
on the west. The ruin is situated about 200 yards from the National
Old Trails Highway, not far from where the road to Tuba City
branches from the main thoroughfare. This road is a much used one
along which daily, in full view of Elden Pueblo, pass many automo-
biles with tourists keenly interested in the scenic wonders of the
country and in the attractive remains of the former inhabitants. Very
few of these tourists passed without stopping to inspect the work
the Bureau was doing in bringing to light this remarkable relic of
the past.

The mound which covered Elden Pueblo was not very attractive as
an archeological site when work began. It was devoid of trees, sur-
rounded by a pine forest, and covered with bushes and stones. In-
distinct lines of rocks were visible on the surface of the ground, but
even these could not be traced many feet. No standing walls existed
above ground, the rooms later excavated having been filled level to
the top with fallen stones, earth and sand. The general appearance
of the site before excavation is shown in figure 205. Several old resi-
dents of Flagstaff claimed they had often herded stock or sheep over

*In his manuscript now awaiting publication in the Bureau of American
Ethnology. The name Elden Pueblo is there applied to another site.
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1926

NO. 7

(‘surpy!

NM

M

vy Aq ydeisojoyg )

‘UONBALIXA Jd}jye O[Geang Uap[y FO [[eM Jsap,—QO7 “Ol

Cn ete see

MB Dev ay A= ~ -~
Se SSS S83

es
*

Cay : ares
PSP

-

210 SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VOL. 78

the site but never dreamed that under the surface of the earth there
existed so many walls and relics of a former pueblo. Taking as guides
the few stones in line, the outside walls of the rectangular building
(fig. 206) were revealed by a trench dug to the level of the foundation

North Cemetery

nw N to

sah li
East Cemetery
Shrine gy
f{ \WPithouse
we
Scale in Feet.
i-cEaeeS et ees S040 0
‘b i Pithouse

SSeS

Fig. 207.—Sketch map of Elden Pueblo.

and extending entirely around the ruin. When once this bounding
wall had been determined the contents of the rooms, composed of
the fallen tops of walls, were dug out and the number of chambers
determined. The most laborious part of this work was the removal
to a distance from the ruin of the rocks and other material that filled
the rooms or had accumulated outside their bounding walls.
NO. 7 SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1926 201

Fic. 208.—Elden Pueblo, showing south wall and recess in the southwest
corner. (Photograph by J. W. Fewkes.)

Elden Pueblo from the northwest; Sheep Hill in the distance.
(Photograph by J. W. Simmons.)

Fic. 200.

212 SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VOL. 78

Judging from the ground plan shown in the accompanying sketch
(fig. 207), Elden Pueblo was a massive walled building composed of
large chambers used for domiciles or granaries forming a lower story,
upon which a second was built, especially evident on the western end,
where, although considerably broken down, fragments of a roof
rested on top of the lower rooms, with rudiments of upper walls.
As will be seen by an examination of figures 206, 208, and 209, Elden
Pueblo was a rectangular structure 145 by 125 feet, oriented approxi-
mately east-west. A complete wall was missing on the north side. The
standing walls varied in height from about two feet at the lowest to
seven feet at the highest point (fig. 210).

Fic. 210.—Recess in the exterior wall on the southwest corner, showing
highest point in the wall. (Photograph by J. W. Fewkes.)

This latter occurred at the angular inset of the southwest corner,
where there are indications of a shrine near a megalith forming the
foundation, under which was a recess containing two or three small
undecorated clay vessels and a number of rock concretions. From
its position at the southwest angle of the building, facing the sunset
point at the winter solstice, this shrine may be supposed to represent
the winter solstice house of the sun, or the place where offerings to
the sky god were placed, in the Elden Pueblo worship.

The masonry of Elden Pueblo is crude, as would be expected in
a ruin of great age. Stone slabs standing on edge and megaliths occur
as foundations in several places, and although here and there we find
stones laid in courses, this is not acommon mural characteristic. Large
stones alternating with rubble thrown roughly together and exhibiting
NO. 7 SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1926 218

no evidence of being shaped by human hands are most abundant. In
this respect the walls are quite unlike those of the buildings situated in
the Wupatki National Monument, some 25 miles away, or in the middle
valley of the Little Colorado.

The secular rooms are square or rectangular in shape, but there is
one room, recognized at once as different from the others in size and
function, which was not secular but rather communal or ceremonial,
later identified as a kiva. This kiva was indicated by a depression 11
the surface and as is customary was situated half underground. It
lies near the northeastern corner of the pueblo, surrounded on three
sides by secular rooms and by a wall only on the east. It is large
and rectangular with rounded corners, a low seat or banquette extend-
ing completely around the inner wall. This banquette has no vestiges of
pilasters resting on it for roof supports, the roof evidently having
been held up by vertical logs-set in the floor. A ventilator shaft opens
into the room midway in the east wall at floor level. The vertical
portion of this shaft is enclosed by stone masonry bulging from the
external wall of the room. The fallen rock and adobe within this
ceremonial room rendered it impossible to detect a deflector (wind-
shield) or fire hole in the floor, and the indications are from the
amount of charcoal and absence of roof beams that there had been a
conflagration in this room before or after the pueblo fell into ruins.
A comparison of this kiva with one partially excavated at Wupatki,
and with those at Marsh Pass, Arizona, shows a great similarity.
This likeness supports an Indian legend that the Marsh Pass people
were the same race as the ancient Snake Clan, still represented at
Walpi on the East Mesa. Very few objects of Indian manufacture
were found in the rooms of Elden Pueblo, and although there were a
few bowls and one or two well-preserved human skeletons, these
were so few in comparison with mortuary objects from the cemeteries
that a consideration of them will be left to a final report on the ruin.

There were many good metates and manos of customary pueblo
shape and several stone implements, axes, mortars, spear-points,
arrowheads, and the like, a consideration of which would enlarge this
preliminary account too much. There should be mentioned, how-
ever, a type of paint-grinding stones similar to those from Casa
Grande. A spindle whorl may be mentioned because instead of being
of stone, thin and perforated like those from the pueblo ruins, it
is of clay, thick, almost spherical, like Mexican spindle whorls, identi-
cal with several elsewhere figured from Casa Grande. Another form
of spindle whorl has a groove around the rim, also suggesting Mext-
can influence.
214 SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VOL. 78

Fic. 211.—Incised deer
leg bone used, with feath-
ers attached, as a hair

alle.

ornament. (Length 73”;
width 1”.)

Many bone needles were found in the rooms, a
few bearing incised decorations. One bone object,
figure 211, was a hairpin or ornament worn in the
hair. Similar carved bones with attached feathers
are still used by the Hopi and Zuni warriors, as
shown in the discussion of the possible use of one
of these objects from Youngs Canyon, 12 miles
from Elden Pueblo. On the cranium of one of the
skeletons, figure 212, found in the Elden Pueblo
cemetery there was a similar bone hairpin, still in
place.

Two cemeteries were located in the work, one on
the eastern, the other on the northern side of the
pueblo. Many skeletons and mortuary objects
were taken from these burial places. There may
have been cemeteries also on the south and west
sides, as a burial was found near the west wall a
number of years ago when a logging road was
constructed through the pine forest. Although a
few “test holes” were dug on these sides, no
systematic excavations were made there by the
Bureau’s expedition, which confined itself to the
east and north cemeteries of the pueblo. These
cemeteries, however, were not completely dug out
on account of limitation of funds, but other
interments may be brought to light by future
archeologists.

There was nothing on the surface of the ground
to indicate the position of skeletons in the ceme-
teries, but the remains of the dead were found by
trenching or by probing with iron rods. The
number of skeletons located was about 150, many
of which were in fairly good condition, but in a
much larger number the component bones were
either missing or so much broken that they were of
very little scientific value. After a skeleton had
been located and the mortuary bowls and other
objects which accompanied it had been removed
with care they were replaced about the remains and
a photograph made of the interment in situ, show-
ing the relative position of accompanying objects
(lig. 223):

There is some variety in the positions in which
the dead were placed in their graves. As a rule,
NOS 7, SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1926 215

however, they lay on their backs, although a few were placed on
their sides; but there were no flexed burials. Some of the skeletons
were a few inches under the surface, others several feet below it.
The latter were accompanied by the same kinds of pottery as
that accompanying the shallow burials. As a rule, to which there
were exceptions, the skeletons were oriented with the head to
the east. Double burials in the same grave, infant interments, and

ae MS

Sah a

ee

Fic. 212—Burial showing position of the efigy of an unknown animal at
the pelvis, and carved deer tibia (shown in fig. 211) between vase and the
skull. (Photograph by J. P. Harrington.)

a skeleton of a woman with skull fragments of an embryo in place
were noted. In one grave was found the skull of a dog, and bones of
other mammals and antelope horns occurred in several graves.

One of the most interesting graves was that which had the skeleton
encased or covered by a hard crust of adobe (fig. 214), but this seems
to have been the only instance of this form of burial. In no instance
was the skeleton enclosed in a stone cyst as occurs so often at Wupatk1.
Individual stones standing on edge were sometimes found, but whether
these were placed in that position for a purpose could not be deter-
216 SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VOL. 78

mined. The dead did not appear to have had any wrappings when
buried ; if so, these wrappings had long since disappeared. They were
accompanied by their ornaments, such as bracelets made of shell, neck-
laces, turquoise ear pendants, finger rings, and other adornments.
Shell and stone beads of a necklace of considerable size were sifted out

Fic. 213.—Burial with vertical rock like
a head-stone and various mortuary objects,
including 6 shell bracelets on left forearm.
(Photograph by J. W. Simmons.)

of the earth surrounding the neck of one skeleton. Several paint
grinders and one or two mortars and pestles were taken from the
graves, but a larger number were found on the floors of the rooms.

There were also clay images of quadrupeds and a small clay effigy
of a bird (figs. 217, b, c) with outstretched wings. Miniature vessels,
corrugated or painted black on white, often accompanied the dead.
A particularly fine small cup of black and white ware with graceful
(‘SUOWUWUIS “AA “f Aq Ydeis

(“SUOLIWIIS -0J0yq) ‘“Atoqyjod Arenjiour jo uoljtsodstp
im “M “f Aq ydeisojoyd) ‘“peAowes sqope jo 4snio SuIMOYS ‘OqoOpe FO ape Jsnid prey ev YIM
a YM Piz sinsy ul uMOoYs [eliIng—'SIz ‘dIy pataAOD UOJIYS UPA [elIng—P1z ‘OL]

SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1926

NO.

218 SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VOL. 78

neck and handle (fig. 217, a) lay over the breast of a priest. This
vessel probably once contained medicine water.

By far the most numerous mortuary objects obtained in the Elden
Pueblo graves were pottery vessels or utensils made of burnt clay.
Each skeleton was accompanied by several pieces of pottery, differing
in form, color, and other features, but all characteristic of the ruin.
Among the objects represented were ollas, vases, bowls, jugs, dippers,
ladles, effigy jars and other forms. Some of these are painted, others
are plain pieces without decorations, but there were no specimens of
true glazed ware, leading to the conclusion that, in common with the

Fic. 216.—Bracelet made of Pacific Coast clam shell (Pec-
tunculus), similar to those on the left forearm of fig. 213.
(Diam. 33”.)

San Juan region, glazing of ceramics had not yet come into vogue at
Elden Pueblo when it was in its prime.

As a rule Elden Pueblo pottery is not of the finest texture—some
specimens are very coarse—nor are the decorations carefully made,
although variegated. The fact that a relatively large number of pots
and bowls were small naturally attracted attention. As several appear
too minute for utensils it has been suggested that some of them were
specially made as mortuary vessels. None of the vessels was punctured
or “ killed” before burial, and only one specimen had a “ life-line ”
or break in the surrounding bands.

The corrugated and coiled ware largely represented at Elden
Pueblo appears to be contemporaneous with the black and white
specimens which are equally abundant. The latter are coarser than
Fic. 217——Small pottery objects and clay image of a bird. a, Medicine
cup from breast of a skeleton; b, c, Lateral and dorsal view of a bird
fetish; d, Medicine vessel.

a, Largest diam., 13”; height 13”. Db, c, Length 13”; width 12”. d, Length

17

oY height 227.
15 219
b

Ftc. 218—a, Smooth red vase with blackened interior; b, red food bowl
with lustrous black interior.

a, Diam. 6”; height 54”. b, Diam. 64”; height 3”.
220
to
_

NO. 7 SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1920 2

those from Mesa Verde and show an imperfect technique, nor are they
as boldly drawn and cleverly combined. They show a close resem-
blance to the black and white ware of the Marsh Pass ruins and those
identified as belonging to the San Juan culture. There is no external
ornamentation on the black and white food bowls, but jugs and other
forms of the same ware show elaborate external decoration.

A prevalent type of pottery obtained in the Elden Pueblo ceme-
tery has a bright red color on the exterior and lustrous black on the
interior (fig. 218). Some of these specimens have their outer surface
corrugated, but the black interior surface occurs both in many of those
which are corrugated and others whose outer surface is smooth. This
ware, whether bowls, jars, or vases, is characteristic, and may be
known as the Flagstaff ware ; although widely distributed all over the
Southwest, it is especially abundant in localities where Gila Valley
ware prevails. The black color on the inner surface of the jar or bowl
was formed in the same way as at the modern Santa Clara pueblo,
where it is produced by the action of smoke from a smothered fire.
Various substances may be used to create this smoke. The Hopi often
use for that purpose a thin piece of corn bread, called paper bread, but
other substances are likewise employed. A similar method of using
smoke to impart this black color was employed by the ancient Greeks
and Egyptians.

The forms of the red pottery here described as Flagstaff type are
food bowls, vases, jugs, ladles, ollas, and the like. The several jugs
and bowls, some smooth, others with corrugated exterior and lustrous
interior surface, would indicate that these two groups were contem-
porary. Both, however, are supposed to antedate what is called the
black on white pottery, which type is decorated and by far the most
attractive of all the archaic ware from Elden Pueblo. The designs
on this ware are conventionalized figures painted on a white ground.

In order to simplify a study of the variety of pottery found at
Elden Pueblo these artifacts are here divided into six groups, classi-
fied as follows: 1. Rude and undecorated, with no evidence of coil;
2. Corrugated and coiled; 3. Mat red ware; 4. Smooth red ware;
5. Polychrome; and 6. Black on white, or white on black, decorated
with geometrical designs.

1. Rude, undecorated, and uncoiled—The few objects referred
to this type of pottery are very coarse and show no indications that
they were made by coiling. They seem to have been fashioned by
the hands, working a lump of clay and possibly smoothing it by the
aid of a stone or some other implement. Finger prints and other
markings occur on the surface of these vessels. They show no at-
222 SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VOL. 78

tempts at painting a glaze decoration and their shapes recall the very
crude products of workmen who were unskilled in the work. Among
the varieties of this form may be mentioned small crucible-shaped
receptacles, like children’s playthings, larger bowls, ollas, cooking
pots, vessels with grooved handles like gourd ladles, and others.
Images of animals, birds, quadrupeds, and even human efhgies were
pressed into shape from balls of clay.

17

Fic. 219.—Red corrugated vessel. Diam. 53”; height 43”.

1”

2. Corrugated and coiled ware—FElden pottery of this group is
very characteristic and is easily distinguished from the corrugated
and coiled ware of other pueblos by its red color. We sometimes find
examples, mostly bowls, vases and jugs, of gray color with black
lustrous interiors, the corrugations being quadrilateral in shape,
smooth on the surface, indentations shallow. The quadrangles are
arranged in regular rows (fig. 219). Variants of this regular corruga-
tion are many, the differences being mainly in form and relative size
but the corrugations are so regular that some form of angular instru-
ment must have been used in making them. There are also specimens
of coiled ware in which the corrugations are very small, closely
NO. 7 SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1926 223

crowded and apparently made with a stone, a piece of wood, or some
pointed implement. The coiling often appears broadly separated by
parallel grooves. Vessels made of corrugated ware have not as a
rule thin walls like those characteristic of the San Juan, especially
Mesa Verde cliff dwellings, and lack appended scrolls.

3. Mat red ware.—There are two types of red ware, both of which
may be called abundant. The most common red ware has a bright
burnished red color, generally more or less blackened in burning, with
a lustrous black color on the interior. It takes the form of globular
bowls, flat open food bowls, ladles with short handles, and jugs. The
most abundant red ware specimens are globular jars. Some of the
red food bowls have the opening pear-shaped, resembling a form of
ladle. The lips of red jugs are outcurved and the neck is compressed,
generally short. One of the most highly decorated examples of red
ware with dull black decoration on the interior (fig. 222, a) has also
on the outside white figures representing a circle of human hands or
animal paws, which is rare among food bowls from Elden Pueblo.
The designs on this bowl recall those on a vessel formerly used in the
snake washing of the Hopi snake priests.

4. Smooth red ware.—The most unusual type of pottery and there-
fore the most instructive is the smooth red ware, commonly without
decoration exteriorly but often blackened on the inside. This ware oc-
curs sporadically in the pueblo region but is well known from the ruins
in southern Arizona and is most abundant among modern Pima,
Kwahadt, and Papago. The smooth red ware of Papago is generally
decorated with geometrical patterns in black. Several specimens of
both the smooth red ware and the corrugated have their interiors a
lustrous black color, but with no designs. The white or gray ware
bears black decorations.

We have this same condition of corrugated ware with inner surface
black in the cemeteries of Pipe Shrine House on the Mesa Verde,
a specimen of which has been figured elsewhere. The smooth red ware
which is so abundant at Elden Pueblo is very rare in the Rio Grande
and exceptional in the Little Colorado. The decorated red ware of
Elden Pueblo is like the ornamented red ware at Homolobi and
Chevlon, pueblos near Winslow, and is abundant in the ruins at Tuba
City and on the road to Marsh Pass.

5. Polychrome ware.—Polychrome ware is very rare at Elden
Pueblo, only a few sherds and but one or two small food bowls having
been found in the collection from this ruin. This is astonishing when
we bear in mind that collections made at Wupatki and Marsh Pass
contain many specimens of this ware. As a general rule, polychrome
b

Fic. 220.—Two specimens of black and white ware. a, jug; b, canteen
with glossy black and white decoration.
a, Diam. 5”; height 43”. b, Diam 6”; height 52”.

224
{

AA
—=—=—

a

226

22 SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS

é

Itc. 222.—Decorations on the interior of food bowls. a, interior of dull red

ware bowl; b, exterior of same bowl; c-f, interior decoration of black and
white bowls.
17

a, b, Diam, 115”; height 5”. c, Diam. 63”; height 4”. d, Diam. 7”; height
SWZ

33”. e, Diam. 54”; height 23”. f, Diam. 64”; height 4”.
NO 7, SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1926

iS)
Si

c
Fic. 223.—Characteristic designs on the interior of black and white food

bowls

Ge Dia 0 height 6”. b, D | , Diam. 83”; height
ee aD) ’; height D Oe J hes. 7, Diamh aie.
height 21
228 SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VOL. 78

ware in the last mentioned localities has the same geometrical symbols
as the Elden Pueblo black on white ware.

6. Black and white ware-—The common decorated pottery at El-
den Pueblo is the well-known black on white. In many instances the

3

Fic. 224.—Ladle of black and white ware. Bowl, 3%

1”

x 41”; handle, 44”.

figures, which are here always geometrical, are white in color on a
black base, but generally the reverse is the case, 7. e., the design is
in black on a white base. The former may be called “ negative.” The
distribution of the white and black commonly leads to patches or bands
of checkerboard areas or mosaic patterns well illustrated in pottery
NO. 7 SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1926 229

from the middle Little Colorado valley. While the black decoration
on white is mainly geometric, some of the designs are very intricate
and beautiful. No realistic and few conventionalized figures ap-
pear. Decoration appears on the inside of food bowls and ladles
(figs. 221 to 224), but are confined to the outside of vases (fig. 225),
ollas, jars, and seed bowls. Many of the designs are modifications
of the swastika or of the friendship sign. There are no ornamental
figures on the outside of bowls and generally no broken lines. The

[\

Fig. 225.—Decorations on two black and white vases.

bowls are hemispherical in shape, generally thick walled with square,
round, or outcurved lips. In the last-mentioned, the outcurved inner
rim when broad enough is decorated with simple designs differing
from those of the body of the bowl.

The globular vessels of black and white ware called seed bowls
are represented in the collection by several specimens, all highly dec-
orated with scroll, frets, and other designs. These seed bowls are
sometimes designated as globular vessels. They do not always contain
seeds, for two specimens of red ware are filled with red and green

pigments.
230 SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VOL. 78

One of the most exceptional forms of Elden Pueblo pottery 1s an
effigy vessel here placed under the black on white ware and shown in
figure 226. This specimen was found upon the pelvis of what appeared
to be a priest, as shown in figure 212. It is a most remarkable piece of
prehistoric pottery, especially when it is borne in mind that it is made
of archaic black and white ware and must therefore be very old. Its
purpose is unknown, but it may have been a receptacle for medicine
liquid employed in ancient rites and ceremonies. It was evidently

)

Mullett

Fic. 226.—Vessel of black and white ware in the form of an unknown
animal probably used in carrying medicine or sacred meal in ceremonies.
Length 84”, height 63”.

carried by a cord forming a handle attached to a perforated ridge
between the stumps of horns or ears and to a similar ridge at the
posterior end of the back.

It is not possible to identify what animal this effigy was intended
to represent but it was a quadruped with divided hoofs at the extrem1-
ties of short and stumpy legs, three of which are partially broken.
The mouth is wide open and the head bears between the eyes and near
the two ears the broken remnants of two horns. The body is almost
globular in shape and is covered with designs in which sun emblems
predominate. The designs repeat several times a circle with short
NO. 7 SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1926 231

extensions from the periphery. The circle among the Pueblo people
symbolizes several supernatural conceptions in the Hopi art, among
which are sun or sky god and earth, but whether the effigy jar repre-
sents either of these or some other conception is not evident.

The form of this effigy is not unlike an inferior specimen from
the cemetery of Pipe Shrine House, Mesa Verde National Park,
Colorado."

The mortuary pottery from Elden Pueblo is allied in several fea-
tures to that found in the great cliff ruins of the Navajo National
Monument and also to that from the Marsh Pass, northern Arizona.
It has some points of resemblance to that of an archaic prepueblo of the
Mesa Verde culture that antedated the cliff dwellings of the Mesa
Verde, as shown by specimens collected by the Bureau from the ceme-
teries at Far View Tower and at Pipe Shrine House of the Mummy
Lake Group. It likewise crops out elsewhere at most unexpected
localities in the Southwest, as in ruins in the Walpi Wash and Jed-
ditoh Valley. Dr. Walter Hough has called attention to the similarity
of pottery from McDonald Canyon, 22 miles south of Holbrook, to
that from Elden Pueblo. It would seem to characterize the oldest
culture of the central Little Colorado valley as well as that from the
San Juan.

In conclusion, it should be pointed out that although many important
contributions have been made in recent times to our knowledge of
pueblo pottery and its distribution in prehistoric times, these conclu-
sions are tentative, as there remain many unexplored areas in our
Southwest, the pottery of which is unknown. One of these is the region
west of the Little Colorado and south of the Grand Canyon, as far
west as California and southwest to the Gila Valley. Elden Pueblo
lies in the geographical center or heart of this extensive area, of which
archeologically and ceramically we knew next to nothing up to the
past summer. It is a type ruin strategically placed, adding new facts
bearing on several problems of the prehistoric Southwest.

The likeness of Elden Pueblo architecture and ceramics to the oldest
ruins in Arizona is very pronounced. It has many points of resem-
blance to the ruins in the Gila basin, apparently connecting them with
the pueblos of the San Juan. The relative age of Gila compounds
and San Juan pueblos is a problem we are as yet unable to satisfac-
torily solve. We now greatly need more information on the region
between Elden Pueblo and the mouth of the Gila in order to show
intimate connections between compounds and pueblos, but in this re-

1 Smithsonian Misc. Coll., Vol. 74, No. 5, Fig. 107¢c.
232 SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VOL. 78

gion we evidently have a meeting place of the types of prehistoric cul-
tures in the northern and southern parts of Arizona.

RECORDING OF HOPI INDIAN MUSIC

At the request of the Starr Piano Co. of Richmond, Ind., Dr. J.
Walter Fewkes superintended the recording of eleven Katcina songs of
the Hopi Indians. Permission was received from the Office of Indian
Affairs to take four Indians from their reservation to the Grand
Canyon, where the recording was done. The singers represented the
older generation and remembered Dr. Fewkes from the time of his
studies among their tribe 30 years ago. The age of the singers insured
the genuineness of the songs, many of the words of which are archaic
and cannot be translated.

Dr. Fewkes noted with much interest the improvements that have
been made in recording apparatus since his pioneer efforts along this
line over 30 years ago. The Indians displayed no hesitancy in singing
into the microphone and seemed quite pleased on hearing the result.

The original master records will eventually be deposited with the
Smithsonian together with a set of the reproductions.

ARCHEOLOGICAL AND ETHNOLOGICAL RESEARCHES
IN CALIFORNIA

The beginning of the year found Mr. J. P. Harrington, ethnologist,
engaged in the work of following up what information is still available
on the culture and archeology of the Mission Indians of southern Cali-
fornia. Work was continued at ruined village sites in the Santa Ines,
Ojai, and Simi valleys, and important discoveries were made revealing
an earlier and a later coast Indian culture. The archeological sites of
the region are being built over at an alarming rate, due to the settling
up of the country by Americans, and thus are being lost forever to
scientific investigation. The numerous pictographs, legendary stones,
and place names were also thoroughly investigated. The rancheria of
Misyahu in the Canada de las Uvas was traced with more than usual
success, although it seems that the cemetery has been washed away
by the arroyo. The village consisted of 30 or more dome-shaped huts,
from 12 to 20 feet in diameter, clustered irregularly on and about a
great rocky hill, also of dome shape. Most of the hut circles can still
be traced, but little was found under the surface of the floors. The
near-by village of Sikutip had an entirely different arrangement, stand-
ing on the floor of a meadow beside a little swampy patch of ground
that must have supplied the Indians with drinking water. Four large
springs with pictographs traced on their rocky walls were located in
the vicinity.
NO. 7 SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1926 233

Fic. 228.—Indian fortification parapet at Santa Maria ranch.
234 SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VOL. 78

Fic. 229.—Indian sign post.

Fic. 230.—Site of Simomo rancheria.
NO. 7 SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 19206 235

The country in Indian times was literally populated with “ petrified ”
“ first people,” who lived at the beginning of the world and were trans-
formed to stone for one reason or another, as special legends tell.
There is a rocky pinnacle on a hilltop which used to be a person and
evidently still has some life in it, for it is said to change its position
at times, being seen by the Indians now erect, now tilted, now reclined.
Two more petrified people shot arrows at each other across a canyon,
with the result that one of the rocks is badly shattered. Another rock
has horns. Even a whole house is petrified; a ghastly magical wood-
rat described as being some two feet in length is said to live in a rock

Fic. 231—The old and the new: sheet iron stovepipes emerging from Hopi
kivas. (Photograph by J. P. Harrington.)

that looks exactly like a primitive Indian wigwam. Another rock is
the home of a magical beaver. Still another rock is a warclub left by
the first people. Up another boulder two petrified rattlesnakes are
crawling, seen as streaks in the formation of the rock.

The first people also left their barefooted or sandaled tracks. A
good photograph was obtained of one of these footprints. It is a
perfect human footprint, fourteen inches long. The god who made
this print was heading toward the ocean.

The Indians also had the custom of placing a small rock on top of
a boulder to mark the trails. One would go along the trail looking
for these guides, which are always seen bobbing up ahead in con-
spicuous places. It is denied that Indians put all of them there; it is

16
2306 SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VOL. 78

said that some of them were there always, even in the time of the
first people. They were the Indian sign posts.

At Simomo the cemetery was located. The great shell refuse mound
of this rancheria shines white and makes the site conspicuous at a
distarce. The houses were on this mound and as the mound grew,

Fic. 232—Kutqa, Chief of the Walpi Indians, who sang at
the Grand Canyon. (Photograph by J. P. Harrington.)

by fresh accumulations of débris, the whole village gradually rose in
elevation as the centuries passed. The spring was at the foot of the
slope and had a strong flow of excellent water; it is now used as a
watering place for cattle. No material of very early date was re-
covered from the reconnaissance of the Simomo site. At Shisholop
site, the shell content of the mound was found to be unusually large
and few artifacts were found in it. The shell species contained in
these mounds are practically all identified as modern.
NO. 7 SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1926 237

At the close of the California work, in May, Mr. Harrington was
detailed to visit Walpi, Arizona, for the purpose of bringing a party
of Hopi Indians to the Grand Canyon, where records were made of
their songs. The Indians whose services were secured were Kutqa,
Chief of Walpi Pueblo ; Hunaw6, head snake chief ; Hung, a leader in
the snake ceremonies ; and Kakapti, one of the best singers of the
tribe. At the Grand Canyon they met their old friend, Dr. Fewkes,
and proceeded to give their best renditions of Katcina songs to the
strange machine invented by the white man to preserve these price-
less songs of the remote Indian past. The Grand Canyon is a sacred
place of Hopi mythology, and their visit to it took on almost a religi-
ous aspect. Songs were obtained of a dozen different kinds of Kat-
cinas, which may be described as ancestral spirits. On the trip through
the Hopi country native place names were gathered from the four
aged men.

During the middle of the summer, Mr. Harrington assisted the
Chief of the Bureau in the excavation of Elden Pueblo, Arizona.
During the excavations, visits were received from a number of Hopi
Indians and information of unique character was recorded from some
of them. None of the visitors, however, was able to furnish the old
Indian name of Elden Pueblo, although they gave without hesitation
the name of the near-by Elden Mesa. But they were unanimous in
thinking that the Elden inhabitants were ancestors of the Hopi. Prac-
tically all the artifacts taken from the ruin could be named in Indian
and intelligently discussed by the Hopi.

ETHNOLOGICAL STUDIES AMONG THE IROQUOIS INDIANS

Mr. J. N. B. Hewitt, ethnologist, Bureau of American Ethnology,
spent the period from May 25 to June 29, 1926, among the Iroquois
Indians living on their reserves in the vicinity of Brantford, Ontario,
and at Caughnawaga near Montreal, Quebec, Canada.

While on the Grand River Grant to the Six Nations, near Brant-
ford, Ontario, Mr. Hewitt resumed his intensive researches relating to
the content and analytic interpretation of the Onondaga, the Mohawk,
and the Cayuga native texts recorded by him in former years, relating
to the several institutions of the Federal League of the Five (latterly
Six) Iroquois tribes, including the contents and the structure of the
noble Chants and Rituals of the impressive Federal Council of Con-
dolence for deceased Chiefs and the Installation of their successors.

With the aid of Chief John Buck, an Onondaga-Tutelo mixed-
blood, as an Onondaga informant and interpreter, and Chief (retired)
238 SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VOL. 78

Alexander G. Smith, a Mohawk speaker and informant, Mr. Hewitt
obtained a fine Mohawk version and literal translation of the remark-
able Requickening Address of this famous Council.

The psychological insight of the framers of this wonderful ritu-
alistic address is without question unsurpassed in any other composi-
tion of its kind in any other literature of the world. Its primary pur-
pose is to thwart the ultimate aim of Death—the ultimate destruction

a

Fic. 233.—Mr. Joshua Buck, (obiit 1923), Onondaga-Tutelo,
Iroquoian stock, ritualist and native physician.

of all living—and to restore the mental equipoise of one who has been
stricken with inconsolable grief through the loss of a kinsman or kins-
woman, or a beloved ruler, a chief, by the ruthless hand of Death.
One so stricken gives vent to extravagant expressions of grief and
sorrow, lasting weeks, and months and even years, by self-torture and
self-humiliation, by foregoing food and drink to the verge of starva-
tion, by denying himself the ordinary comforts and needs of life, and
even by sitting among the ashes of the hearth and casting the ashes
and coals over his head and person, thus filling in time the eyes, the
NO. 7 SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1926 239

ears and the throat with them, in such manner that the environing
world of persons and things are no longer objects of sense; and the
vitality becomes so reduced in time that the sufferer may well be
regarded as moribund. To redeem a grief-tormented sufferer from
such a state of collapse is the set task of the Requickening Address.

About the year 1570 of the Christian Era, five linguistically cognate
Iroquois tribes, occupying at that time chiefly the central and the
eastern portions of the present State of New York, united in establish-
ing the historically well-known League or Confederation of the Iro-
quois for the avowed purpose of securing Health and Peace, Justice
and Righteousness, Order and the Force of Personality (Orenda),
as the bases of a beneficent Commonwealth of peoples.

The tribes entering into this organic unity were the Mohawk, the
Seneca, the Onondaga, the Oneida, and the Cayuga. At that time these
tribes were also united in a more or less close compact with the noted
Neutral Nation of the Iroquoian linguistic stock, another federation
of tribes, which in the person of the famous Chieftainess, Djigonsa’sen
(the Wildcat), took an active part in the conferences and the delibera-
tions resulting in the establishment of the League of the Five Iroquois
Tribes and also of the other compact with the Neutral Nation. But
for some reason, yet unknown, this alliance was not wrought into a
permanent organic institution, and so, in the structure of the Iroquois
League as known to us, there appears no concrete indication of this
former important alliance; not even nominal recognition of the
Neutral Nation exists. There are, however, some essential features of
the structure of the Iroquois League which a uniform tradition
ascribes to the helpful work of this broadminded stateswoman and
Chieftainess of the Neutral Nation.

Political and religious organizations of the Iroquoian peoples func-
tion only through the interaction of two important complementary
principles which are embodied in definitely organized groups of per-
sons. This is true of the tribal and of the federal organizations.
These two principles are the male and the female functions.

The unit of the tribal organization is the clan. The smallest number
of clans in any tribe is three. The Mohawk and the Oneida each have
this number. And in either tribe the three clans are grouped in two
complementary units, the one representing the Male or Father Princi-
ple, and the other, the Female or Mother Principle. Each of these
units is usually called a Phratry or a Sisterhood of Clans. The nine
clans among the Seneca, the Onondaga and the Cayuga are, in like
manner, respectively grouped into two complementary units composed
240 SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VOL. 78

of four and five clans each, the one unit embodying the Male, and the
other, the Female Principle.

The highest unit of organization of the federal League of the Iro-
quois was the Sisterhood or Phratry of Tribes. Two Sisterhoods of
Tribes composed the League. The five tribes mentioned above com-
posed these Sisterhoods; in the one were three tribes, namely the

Fic. 234.—Chief (Merit) John ‘“ Smoke” Johnson, Mohawk,
Iroquoian stock, annalist and ritualist.

Mohawk, the Seneca and the Onondaga, in the other were two tribes,
namely, the Oneida and the Cayuga; the first Phratry embodied the
Father or Male Principle, and the second the Mother or Female
Principle.

Viewed from the federal standpoint, what affects the integrity or
the welfare of a clan of a tribe affects in like manner the entire Sis-
terhood or Phratry of Tribes to which that tribe belongs. So the
death of a Chief of a clan of a tribe makes mourners of the entire
INO: 7 SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1926 241

Phratry to which such tribe belongs, and this fact automatically makes
the complementary Phratry Redeemers or Restorers. The mourners
are described as Those whose minds are prostrate, and the Redeemers
as Those whose minds are virgin or unaffected, and so in a position to
restore to full life those who mourn.

In all formal public assemblies or councils, the Phratry of Tribes
representing the Father or the Male Principle occupies a side of the
real, or the imaginary, fire opposite to that occupied by the Phratry of
Tribes representing the mother or female principle.

In formal public assemblies the Male or Father side of the tribe or
of the League is addressed as a single personality by the pronoun,
“thou,” and by the terms, “ My Father,” “ My Father’s Brothers,”
“ You, Three Brothers.”’ The Female or Mother side of the tribe or
of the league is also addressed as a single personality by the pronoun,
“thou,” and by the terms, “ My Offspring” or “ My Children,”
‘My Weanling,” and “ You, Two (latterly Four) Brothers.” These
examples apply specifically to the League institutions. It is these
figurative appellations which are employed in the Rituals and Chants
and Addresses of the Council of Condolence and Installation. To
understand these dramatized lyric compositions the terms in the fore-
going examples must be kept carefully in mind.

These brief interpretative comments will enable one the better to
grasp the significance of the contents of the Requickening Address
in question. This formal lyric address is composed of 15 themes or
burdens of hurts to life learned from human experience, and the
asserted healing of each hurt by the use of the appropriate remedial
means by the ritually prescribed agent, the Celebrant.

Each of these Themes or Burdens is set forth through a formula
common to all, with one or two exceptions. First, a specific type of
hurt arising from grief at the loss by death of kindred is made ; then,
this type of hurt is directly asserted as affecting the mourner present ;
and, lastly, the Celebrant executes the symbolic act which at once heals
the hurt or removes its cause.

From one to four strings of wampum about four inches long (the
proportion of white to purple beads varying with the theme), accom-
pany each of these Themes or Burdens when they are in use, and they
are hung upon a horizontal pole immediately in front of the celebrant
Orator. As he ends the recital of a Theme he sends by the hand of his
assistant the accompanying wampum string or strings to the opposite
or mourning side of the Council Fire, where they are hung on another
horizontal pole in front of the Speaker for that side.
242 SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VOL. 78

The Council of Condolence and Installation requires that if the
Father Phratry or Sisterhood of Tribes is the mourner then the
Mother Phratry must become the unaffected one, and vice versa. It is
the duty of the unaffected Phratry to act as the Celebrant of the
Rites of the Council of Condolence and Installation.

In this remarkable Council five Rituals are employed, and four of
these Rituals, when in use, are divided into two portions in such wise
that there necessarily results a perplexing interlocking of one Ritual
with another. This curious fact, for which the present writer has so
far found no satisfactory explanation, has never yet appeared in
print, in so far as the writer’s knowledge goes.

The Requickening Address opens its first theme with a frank
recognition of the Creator and Source of Life and with an expression
of solidarity with him.

Specific names are applied to these Themes or Burdens of the Hurts
of Life. In their order these Themes are as follows:

I. Tears. II. One’s Ears. III. One’s Throat. These three constitute the
First Section of the Address, and they are used at the “ Edge of the Forest,”
where the Fire of the Welcoming is kindled, and where the mourners first
meet their unaffected guests, and they intone the Chant of Welcome. But the
final Section of twelve Themes of the Requickening Address is not used until
the other set Rituals but one have been recited and answered by the mourners,
and is virtually the closing Ritual of the Council.

The intent of the Themes of the first Section is to restore to their normal
condition the sight, the hearing, and the vocal organs of a grief-stricken
mourner such as is mentioned previously in this paper. After this ceremonial
cleansing and revivifying, he is prepared to meet the Condolers in the Principal
Place of Assembly. Now he can see, he can hear, and he can talk.

The names of the Themes of the final Section are as follows:

IV. “ Within the Breast (or Body). The shock of deep grief has dis-
placed the internal organs and they are awry, inducing much reduced vitality,
with impending dissolution.

But the Celebrant gives a draught of the Waters of Pity, pressed from
many words of sympathy expressed, to the sufferer, and as these waters
reach the parts affected they quickly replace the disturbed organs and normal
vitality is restored.

V. “The Trail of Blood from the Death Mat.” “ Verily, thou dost writhe
in the midst of blood.”

But the Celebrant does “wipe away the blood-stream from thy mat,” using
the “soit skin of the spotted fawn,” so “that when thou wilt return to thy mat,
it will be in the fullness of peace, and it will be spread out in contentment.”

VI. “ The Thick Darkness of Night” covers one. “ Now thou dost not know
the Light of Day upon the earth.”

But the Celebrant comforts the mourning one, saying, ‘“‘ We cause it to be
Daylight again for thee . . . . the daylight will be fine, shining in perfect peace,
and thou wilt again look upon the handiwork of the Perfector of our Facul-
ties... . spread out richly upon the earth.”
NO. 7 SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1926 243

VII. “The Sky is Lost” to the mourner. “ Now, the Sky is completely
lost to thy mind. Thou knowest nothing of what is taking place in the Sky.”

But the Celebrant comforts with the words, “ We cause the Sky again to be
fine for thee; it will be beautiful, and thou wilt think contentedly as thou wilt
again look upon the Sky.”

VIII. “The Sun is Lost” to the mourner. “Such a person knows nothing
about the Sun in its movements, nothing of its drawing nearer and nearer
to him.”

Fic. 235.—Chief Abram Charles, Cayuga, Iroquoian stock,
annalist and ritualist.

But the Celebrant comfortingly says, “ We now replace the Sun in the Sky
for thee... . and when the time for the dawning of a; new day comes thou
wilt see the Sun perfectly when it will rise . . . . thy eyes will rest upon it as it
draws nearer and nearer to thee... . When the Sun will place itself in
mid-sky, then around thy body rays of sunlight will abundantly surround thee.”

IX. “At the Grave—the Heap of Upturned Clay.’ The shock of grief
“thrusts a person aside to the place where arises the mound of earth which
covers the one in whom one’s mind confided and received support... . . Un-
happily one thinks, for one’s mind lies there beside the grave of uptorn earth.
There it is shaken and rolled about on the ground..... It knows nothing
else.”
244 SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VoL. 78

3ut, the Celebrant in comforting terms says: ‘“ We now level the uptorn
earth over the place where rests the one thou didst trust for words of wisdom.
....A fine slab of wood do We, the Three Brothers, place over these; and
gathered moss and grasses plucked up; for verily, there are two things which
are done by the Day and also by the Night; the one is that, should it so be, that
should the Day put forth fierce rays of sunlight, they shall not, therefore,
pierce through to him; the other is, that should it so be, that driving rains fall
heavily upon them by night, these too shall not go through to where he lies—
though nothing save the bones be visible there. So then there will his bones
lie peacefully. .... So that even for one little day thou shouldst think your
thoughts in contentment.”

X. “Twenty (Strings of Wampum) are the Penalty for it” (Homicide).

But the Celebrant comforts with these words among others: “Do thou
amon thes 6 ob 6 6 My Offspring (4. e., the Mother Side) .... that now, we,
Three Brothers take that up now, and that, let them say it, ‘ Now, we wrap up
thy bones, one and all (as a protection), fixing the penalty of twenty (strings
of wampum) on them (for any hurt done them).’”

XI. “The Fire of the Home, Around Which the People are wont to go to
and fro.”

“Our grandsires, now dead, whom our minds trusted implicitly, decreed,
because they failed to perceive the lineaments of its Face, the Face indeed, of
that Being that abuses us ceaselessly by day and by night, of that Being of
Darkness, crouching hard by the barklodges, goes about with uplifted bludg-
eon—with its couched weapon at the very top of our heads—eagerly muttering
its fell purpose, saying, ‘I, I it is, who will destroy all things,’ they decreed,
I say, that they would name it the Great Destroyer, the Being Without a Face,
the Being Malefic in Itself—Death. So, putting forth its sinister power in
thy booth of bark, it struck down one therein on whom thou didst depend
confidently for words of wisdom and for kindly service, and there is therein
now a vacant mat. By this blow It scattered widely the fire-brands of thy
fire, and in mocking derision the Great Destroyer has stamped out thy fire.”

But the Celebrant orator utters these words of cheer and comfort: “So now,
do thou know it, my Offspring, that we, the Three Brothers, having perfected
our preparations, say, ‘ Now, we gather together again the scattered fire-brands
of thy home fire, and so indeed, we rekindle thy fire for thee; and the smoke
thereof shall rise again; that smoke shall be fine, and it shall even pierce the
sky (smoke=the activities of life)..... Now, indeed, we raise thee again
to full stature.’ ”

XII. “ Woman.”

“ Now, another thing. It is that wherein the Perfector of our Faculties who
dwelleth in the sky, established it, in that He desired that He should have
assistants above and even down to the earth; that some shall devote their care
to the matters which pertain to the earth ‘I have ordained,’ He says, ‘one
and all” It is that, in fact, that He, therefore, caused the person of our
Mother—the Woman—to be of noble worth. He designed that She shall be
entrusted with the duties pertaining to the birth and the nurture of mankind,
and that She shall circle around the fire in preparing,—that she shall care for,—
that by which life is sustained.

“ And that, too, is a calamity, that, it may be, the Great Destroyer will make
a swift stroke there in the ranks of our mothers, felling one there. The evil
NO. 7 SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1926 245

is that a long line of (unborn) persons will be blotted out, in the many-fold
lines of grandchildren who would have come from her loins... . . Now,
furthermore, the minds of all those who still remain have fallen and are
prostrate.”

The Celebrant orator says: “So now, furthermore, the Three Brothers,
having perfected their preparations, let them now say, “now, then, we raise
up your minds again and cheer and comfort them. This, indeed, shall come
to pass; and you shall now again devote yourselves to your several cares and

duties.”
we

etal

Fic. 236.—Onondaga woman and infant on cradle-board.
Syracuse, N. Y.

Mill. “‘ Hoya’ne'r: the Federal Chief.”

“They whom our minds highly respected made a decree. They strictly for-
bade what they denominated ‘tossing it over the shoulder.’ ”

The Celebrant continues: ‘‘ Now, Saya’ne‘r (thou, Federal Chief), we,
Three Brothers, having perfected their preparations say to thee: ‘Do thou,
listening, hear full well what is said to thee by thy Niece (our Mothers) and
by thy Nephew (the Men) of thy Clan. The reason that this must be is that
to them also has been given mind—the ability to judge right things.’” (Here
follow the details of several admonitions to the Federal Chief for derelictions
in official duties by the Mothers, and then by the Mothers and the Men of the
Clan). The Celebrant continues: “ That too is another grave matter, shouldst
240 SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VoL. 78

thou toss over they shoulder the admonition of justice and right conduct by
which all the people live. Should this come to pass, then know that the time
is near when the feet of thy people shall hang over the abyss of the sundered
earth (of impending ruin). Should this misfortune take place there is no One
under heaven who is able to draw them out of it save One, the Creator of
our bodies, who has the power to do this and to aid all in distress.”

XIV. “The Loss of Reason—Suicide.”

“Our grandsires made another decree forbidding another thing, and that is,
that the mind should not be permitted to lose its reason by nursing the memory
of deep sorrow. ....

“That verily is a grave matter when the mind loses its reason because a
grievous loss has befallen a person; for, it is well-known that there grow
things on the earth, over which the other things of the earth have no power,
but which have the power to end the days of a human being, should there be any
weakening of the mind.”

The Celebrant admonishes: “ Should this come to pass, it will be a source of
death to the people. So, for this reason, we, Three Brothers, forbid this thing
to you, so that now you can again think in contentment.”

XV. ‘“ The Ever-burning Signal Torch” And “ The Short Purple Wampum
String of Notification.”

“When our grandsires, now long dead, conjoined their affairs they made
a decree, saying: ‘ Here we place two rods horizontally side by side, and held
fast by them fix the Ever-burning Torch,’

“And here, over the small horizontal pole of partition where it pierces the
bark-wall we suspend a Pouch of the Skin of Dji’nho"do‘hyé”’’a‘, of indifferent
fur, in which we put the Short Purple Wampum String of Notification.

“And we, so many as our Council Fires number, have an equal right to
these two objects. And they shall be of essential use wherever a grevious
thing (—death) has taken place, or where instant peril, menacing death to
one and all, is seen creeping like a serpent close at hand.

“Tt matters not on which side of our Council Fire (the Father Side or
the Mother Side) the evil will be, these two things shall be vitally important.

“Tn either case, the one whose mind is unaffected (ago’nigo™ga’‘te‘) shall
erasp the Ever-Burning torch from its holders and also unhang the Pouch of
the Skin of Dji’nho™do‘hyé”’a‘ containing the Short Purple Wampum String of
Notification, and he shall at once start going through the Lodge of the League so
that the message he bears shall quickly be carried through the entire Lodge
and all the Council Fires be made acquainted with it... .. His going shall
be done in such manner that there shall be no traces—no ‘ forms ’—of lying
down along the path.....

“So, now, verily, with respect to thee, thy Ever-burning Torch is removed
from its place and thy Pouch with the Short Purple Wampum String
of Notification is unhung for thee, all this because of the grievous calamity
which has befallen thee.”

The Celebrant orator comforts with the following:

“Now, we, Three Brothers, again suspend the Pouch of the Skin of
Dji’nho™do‘hyé”’a‘, of indifferent fur, over the Small Horizontal Pole where
it pierces the Bark-wall of the Lodge, containing the Short Purple Wampum
String of Notification which we have replaced and we also set back the Ever-
NO. 7 SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1926 247

Burning Torch between the Two Horizontal Poles—these things to which we,
so many as our Council Fires number, have an equal right.

“For, it may be that thou thyself will see close at hand the nameless Being
of our destruction then verily thou shalt go at once and taking the Ever-
burning Torch and the Pouch with the Short Purple Wampum String of
Notification, and thou must go quickly along through the Lodge of the League
so that in the shortest time possible all shall be notified.

“So, that verily will make it possible that thy two nephew-niece groups
of kindred, and thy grandchildren as well, may live and think in contentment.
So that, therefore, for one little day, you my weanlings severally may live
pleasantly in the days that are coming.

“So, perhaps thus, let the Three Brothers do, so-called ever since they
perfected their affairs. So, now then, do thou my weanling know that these
are the sum of our words. Now then we kneel before you (thee) reverently.
And now we will know presumably that the full number of our words have been
realized in deed. We have now completely set your affairs in order again.

“Thus, then, did they whom we greatly revered do when they united their
affairs; they made a decree, saying, ‘It matters not on which side of the Councii
Fire which is between us the need be, it shall be possible that they shall again
set his face fronting the people, that they shall again raise him up (requicken
him), that they shall again name his name, and that then also he shall again
stand upright before the people. In this we are following the ceremonial path.
So, now furthermore, let them say, ‘Do thou mow point out to us the one who
shall be again a colaborer with us.’

“Now, my weanling, do thou know that we, Three Brothers, have completed
the Ceremony.

“And, now then, that which (short purple wampum string) notified us is
on its way back to thee.

“Know thou, then, that now soon thy Father’s kinsmen will arise to leave
for home, and that there, then, at the edge of the forest will they lay their
backs.”

FIELD STUDIES OF INDIAN MUSIC

In July, 1926, Miss Frances Densmore, collaborator of the Bureau
of American Ethnology, went to Neah Bay, Washington, to continue
her study of Makah music. Neah Bay is situated on the Strait of
Juan de Fuca, near the end of Cape Flattery. Encircled by the Olym-
pic Mountains, it can be reached only by water, and during the winter
months it is practically shut off from communication with the outside
world. In this isolation the older Indians have kept their former
beliefs and traditions with remarkable clearness, though they are
anxious to be “ civilized ” and adopt the best of the white man’s ways.
Many years ago the Spaniards visited Neah Bay and the location of
their fort is near the village. Traces of Spanish ancestry are seen
in some of the Indians and occasional songs bear a resemblance to
those recorded on the Mexican border. The intermarriage of the
248 SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VOL. 78

Makah has been chiefly with the Clayoquot on the west coast of Van-
couver Island and with the Quileute who are their nearest neighbors
on the Pacific coast. Songs of these tribes were recorded as well as
those of the Makah, the entire number of songs obtained being 146.
The classes of songs comprise those of war, treating the sick, dances,
legends, and songs for children. Eight Clayoquot songs for subduing
the waves were recorded, as well as songs for fair weather and a
plentiful supply of herring. Two aged people, one a Clayoquot and the
other a Makah, said they had never heard of anger on the part of
any “ spirit,” nor of any attempt to “ propitiate the spirits.” The words
of the songs addressed to the breakers were said to “ make them
ashamed.” These songs were sung during a storm, one containing the
words:

Your teeth that are trying to get these people are long and homely.

Another song contained the words, “ Please be still, you have
treated us so badly.” Another, sung in rough weather, had the words,
“ What beautiful weather this is! It is as calm as when the dogfish
are moving in.” The informant said, ‘“‘ Even when we were in the
highest breakers, if we sang these songs it seemed as though very
soon the water was smoother.”

Although the caste system was rigidly maintained among the Makah,
it is interesting to note that songs learned from slaves were recorded
and that a slave was allowed to sing a song of his own country at the
Klokali. A song received from a shell was recorded, as well as songs
concerning the crab, chipmunk, shark, and whale.

The Klokali received special attention. This was an important
gathering in the old time and terminated with dances imitating the
actions of animals; it was understood, however, that the dancers
represented the human beings who were the ancestors of the various
animals and did not represent the animals themselves. Songs with
representations of the wolf, deer, blackfish, and the wild white geese
were recorded. One of the most important dances was that repre-
senting the elk, a dance which had no songs, the pounding on sticks
and drum being the only accompaniment.

A remarkable opportunity for seeing native pageantry and hearing
Indian songs occurred on Makah Day and at the rehearsals for that
event. The dancing on this annual occasion is intended chiefly to trans-
mit to the younger generation a knowledge of the old beliefs which are
dramatized and presented by trained performers. Each dance has its
costume and other paraphernalia. Spears decorated with hemlock were
carried in the war dance, elk antlers by the elk dancers, and robes of
249

1926

EXPLORATIONS,

SMITHSONIAN

NO.

(‘e1oulsuaq ssi Aq ydessojoyq )
“QUINYSOD BURP Ul UBMS SI IeYJ— LT “OT

-0,04q)

(a1oursueqy, sstyy Aq ydeis
‘OUINJSOD VUEP UT JoJUNFY Soue(—'ZEe ‘ony

250 SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VOL. 78

bear skin were worn in the “brown bear dance.” The thunderbird
dancers were followed by women who represented the lightning,
known as the “ belt of the thunderbird.” The whale dancer carried
green boughs on his back representing the dead bodies which, accord-
ing to an old legend, were carried by a man preparing himself to be
a whaler. Head-dresses of wood, cedar bark, and feathers were worn,

‘ : .

!
. |
é f

Fic. 239.—Mrs. Parker. (Photograph by Miss Densmore.)

some being decorated with shells. The legends connected with the
dances, as well as their songs, were obtained. James Hunter (fig. 237)
in a dance position wears a head-dress representing a duck, and
Charles Swan (fig. 238) wears a similar ornament representing a wolf.
Many Quileute and Indians from Vancouver Island attended this
gathering, and, after the dramatic dances were concluded, each group
sang its own songs, making it possible to compare the songs and man-
ner of rendition from these widely separated localities.
NO. 7 SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1920 2

on
_

The photographs at Neah Bay consisted of 12 portraits, numerous
landscape and dance pictures, and a series of 20 posed pictures show-
ing the successive postures in various dances. The 27 specimens ob-
tained included a very old rattle used by a successful whaler, a war
knife of whale bone, and a war club of the same material with
feathers on the handle “ to break the force of the blow” to the arm

Fic. 240.—Albert Irving. (Photograph by Miss Densmore. )

that wielded it. Other specimens were a braided rope of whale sinew
and a portion of a whale vertebra used for smoothing the bottom
of war and whaling canoes. Old halibut hooks of elk bone were
obtained, also an old adze with blade of elk bone, this being the type
of implement used in felling trees before the Makah had metal axes.
The collection included a small reed instrument commonly called a
whistle which, when blown, was concealed in the mouth of a thunder-

17
252 SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VOL. 78

bird dancer, and another wind instrument the sound of which was
said to “come through the seams ” where the halves of the wooden
tube were joined together. An interesting specimen is a “ baby-
carrier’ woven of cedar bark and used only during the first four
days of a child’s life. In this carrier is placed a doll with pads of
cedar bark around its face as formerly used to flatten the forehead
and shape the cheeks and chin. A very old wooden cradle used for
infants above the age of four days was also obtained.

Fic. 241.—Mrs. Sophie Wilson. (Photograph by
Miss Densmore. )

The collecting of plants comprised 58 pressed specimens with de-
scriptions of their economic uses. A majority of these were medicinal,
including the entire set of remedies inherited by Mrs. Parker (fig. 239).
Her children do not regard the old ways and this knowledge of plants
would have perished with her.

The study of general customs included a detailed account of the
making of the native canoe (dug-out), the preparation of native dyes,
and a description of the whale hunt and its weapons, valuable infor-
mation on the latter subject being given by Albert Irving (fig. 240).
NO. 7 SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1926 253

Numerous legends concerning the mythical hero called Hirokwati
were also recorded, with their songs.

On August 24, Miss Densmore arrived at Chilliwack, British Co-
lumbia, to record songs among the Indians gathered at the hop-
fields where they were employed as pickers. These Indians were
more than 1,000 in number. During the next two weeks she obtained
more than 120 songs, 28 of which were recorded by old medicine men
who use them at the present time in treating the sick. The 20 In-
dians who recorded songs were from 16 localities distributed over
a territory extending about 400 miles north and south and about 150

Fic. 242.—Indians playing Slahal game at Chilliwack, B. C. (Photograph
by Miss Densmore.)

miles east and west. Some live in mountain regions whence they go
to the railroad on pack horses, while others were from remote set-
tlements on islands or along the Pacific Coast. Among these locali-
ties were Cooper Island, Church House, Powell River, Metlakatla,
Port Simpson, the Nass, Skeena, Thompson and Fraser rivers ; and
the west coast of Vancouver Island. Mrs. Sophie Wilson, a singer
from Church House on Butte Inlet, is shown in figure 241. Among
the interesting songs is one said to have been sung by a seal, another
song is about a mountain goat, and another is the song of a doctor
who talked with a whale and received from it the power to heal the
sick.

An interesting event of each Sunday at the hop-pickers’ camp was
the playing of the Slahal game, its songs accompanied by pounding
af SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VOL. 78

on

on drums and planks. The playing of this game around a huge bon-
fire at night was a spectacular sight. In figure 242 the leader of one
side has the “ bones” in his hand and is preparing to give them to
a member of his side for hiding. The songs occur while the loca-
tion of the marked bone is being guessed by the opponents.

The material gathered at Chilliwack affords a remarkable means
for comparison among the tribes represented, as well as with songs
of tribes previously studied.

Among the important results of this year’s work is the obtaining
of data on the manner of composing songs by Indians, as distinct
from the “ receiving of songs in dreams.” It appears that the com-
position of songs was assisted by walking or by the motion of a
swing. Two persons sometimes collaborated in the composition of
songs. Such persons were interviewed and their songs were recorded.

ARCHEOLOGICAL WORK IN LOUISIANA

Mr. Gerard Fowke, special archeologist, conducted important field-
work on Indian mounds near Marksville, Louisiana.

It is a matter of actual knowledge that the Natchez Indians built
many large mounds along the bluffs bordering the Mississippi on the
east, and that this practice continued, though perhaps in a diminish-
ing degree, until the period of French occupation of the territory.
3ut it is not of record that this tribe, or a colony from it, moved per-
manently to the west of the river until within historic times.

Also, it is now an established fact that the small mounds so numer-
ous over much of Texas, Louisiana and Arkansas, extending in great
numbers down the Red River to Alexandria and, sparsely, even beyond
that point, are the work of the Caddoans. The latter tribes, as far as
we know, did not erect the quadrilateral or flat-topped mounds such
as are prevalent to the eastward. This leaves unexplained as yet the
comparatively few such structures found along the Red River, always
near the stream, reaching up the valley nearly or quite to Texarkana.
These may be due to Natchez, or others, who once lived here for a
time but left no further traces.

Between the known territory of the Natchez and that of the Cad-
doans, that is, between the Mississippi and the vicinity of Alexandria,
La., is a strip of country which, so far as its ancient remains sug-
gest, did not belong to either of these people, and yet there is some
resemblance to both. Whether these works indicate mingling of the
two, or an overlapping of boundary lines at different periods, or
whether there may have been another people in between them who
borrowed somewhat from the customs of both, is not determined.
NO. 7 SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1926 255

The low lands subject to overflow from the two rivers are, of
course, extremely fertile, but as a rule the soil on the uplands is not
productive, is so flat as to be swampy much of the time where not
artificially drained, and apparently is not of a nature to invite a
primitive people whose sustenance must depend in large measure on
agriculture. That there were, nevertheless, settlements of Indians
here and there is shown by the tumuli, sometimes more than twenty
feet deep; but these are few and far between, and point only to small
settlements with much open territory between them. It was a matter

Fic. 243.—Marksville. Trench partly excavated, Mound 4.

of some surprise, then, to find, a mile east of Marksville, a group of
earthworks of such extent and character that they would be notice-
able even in a region where similar structures are abundant, in Ohio
or Georgia, for example. They extend for more than a mile along
a bayou known as “ Old River,” which opens at either end into Red
River, and, as its name indicates, is recognized by the present popula-
tion as having once been the channel followed by that stream. There
is little doubt that it flowed here at the time these earthworks were
constructed, although at present it is several miles away. This fact,
however, has no bearing on the age of the remains; such changes are
frequent and extensive.
250 SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VOL. 78

Most of the works are on the upland, close to the river bluff.
Beginning at the south there is first a square, flat-topped mound
eighteen feet high, covering a fourth of an acre; the sides are still
so steep as to be difficult of ascent. It stands close to a tributary
bayou beyond which, toward the south, no mound or other structure
exists within three or four miles. Next in order is a nearly circular
inclosure measuring somewhat more than three hundred feet across.
This has a flat side bordering a moat lying along the outer margin of
an embankment which is in the form of a rude semi-circle with each

: We
a

Fic. 244.—Marksville. Mound 8, showing structure.

end at the top of the bluff; in fact, it seems that part of it has fallen
with the caving of the bank. The length of this embankment is thirty-
three hundred feet. Inside of it are two flat-topped mounds, each
with its highest point thirteen feet above the surrounding surface.
One of them covers about three acres, the other being somewhat
smaller. It would seem that they were once quadrangular, but their
outlines are so altered by cultivation and erosion that this is not
certain. There were also within the enclosure a low mound eighty or
ninety feet across, one somewhat smaller, and a conical mound twenty
feet high.
NObs 7. SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1926 257

Beyond this is another enclosure five hundred feet long, forming
a fourth of a circle, one end on the river bluff, the other end at the
bank of a ravine. Both ends are shortened by the banks caving in.
There is a wide, deep moat at the outer side: The space enclosed is
about four acres. Within the wall is a flat-topped mound six feet
high and one hundred feet across.

Between these two embankments are lodge sites ; low, circular em-
bankments with a shallow exterior ditch from which the earth was
taken to build them. These do not seem to be a part of the main
works, but to pertain to a different period or a different people.

Fic. 245——Mound inside of enclosure. Marksville.

Over a space of nearly a fourth of a mile to the east of the last
mentioned enclosure no structures were erected; beyond this area,
close to the margin of the bluff, are six mounds of the so-called
“conical” form. Finally, in the bottom, on land subject to overflow,
are four large quadrangular, flat-topped mounds from three to thir-
teen feet high, and three small, low, ordinary mounds, all enclosing a
rectangular space of two acres. The three small mounds are on the
edge of a slough.

It was a natural supposition that such conditions would be favor-
able for research, that works of such magnitude would repay inves-
tigation.

Six of the mounds were carefully excavated to an extent that
disclosed all they had to reveal. Two, the smallest of those opened,
to
Sat
(00)

SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS VOL. 78

Fic. 246.—Pipe and vase found in Mound 4.

Fic. 247—Left to right: Vase from Mound 4, vase from Mound 8, and
plummet from Mound to.
NO. 7 SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1926 259

were simply piles of earth, containing nothing whatever to signify
the reason for their existence. Had it not been for some charcoal,
worked flint, and broken pottery, they might have been deemed
natural formations. Two others were merely foundations for houses,
but each showed plainly that at least two, perhaps three, houses had
been erected on the same site, the later ones on new foundations above
the old.

The last two mounds, one fifteen feet, the other twenty feet high,
were tumuli. In the first a number of bodies had been placed either on
the natural surface or in shallow graves, and the mound erected over
them, apparently as a continuous operation. There was no evidence
of a burial in the body of the structure.

The largest mound was quite different in its arrangement. There
were no skeletons at the bottom, the first step having been to build up
a platform of earth to an elevation of eighteen or twenty inches. On
this a number of bodies had been placed, how many could not be even
guessed, as all the bones were completely decayed and had no more
consistency than wet chalk or ashes. They entirely covered a space
several feet across. The mound had then been carried up over them
to a height of about fifteen feet. Scattered through the earth for this
entire distance were traces of burials, made as the work progressed,
so the construction must have been intermittent or desultory, although
there was no stratification or other marks to demonstrate this. Finally,
the tumulus in this stage was finished.

Later, though it was impossible to estimate how much time may
have elapsed, two large graves were dug in the top of the mound,
several bodies placed in each, the graves filled, and the mound then
added to until it was five feet higher, with a proportional increase in
diameter. But the addition was largely on one side. The point be-
neath the apex as it was first built, was several feet away from the
corresponding point in the mound as completed.

No implements or manufactured objects of any character of stone,
shell, or bone were found in any of the mounds. There was some
pottery—not much—and that crude, and except for two pots, neither
of which is of two ounces capacity, all of it was broken. With a
few skeletons were fragments of pots which had been entire when
deposited, but had been broken from pressure. Some of them had
decorations of incised or impressed lines and figures. A study of
these, and comparison with other pottery in the southern territory.
may furnish a clue as to the tribal affiliations of these Mound
Builders, but unless so, there seems little hope of discovering their
identity.
.
‘
A!
;

&

— Fr
4

-

u

ae

be
ets {
ni

as Aa a a Fee sie
RSs | ae ey Se Se Lipid leiebd..

Poe Nite PA *qage’ | :
Lidaaiielat 5 1 UT par

= & 7
ARPS NE af = 4
SPUN PS ps i yw
a4 4 Ky; a Laas pret
Tey | fists sam gpeate’ aS 4 i a"
oe De ai roa | id :
ine Mia apayrredore* pappareArhe qpantataaa “Piemaphene
baht he, a8 Hil. Pee Aa a,% pAa ant ar Psaper 5 ae meet 1) | ‘ THERE 1 at ~~
,) F) Bsa, |*w Aa’ wea toy pe Be e885 LT Lir Cua eae 4% - Tce ame euGih! et
een LT TTA bibs! lata TTH ee MARL (tna ate Rae
“ ~ ry me ae Bd > © - ~ >
ltt | ake Nina ” Man 4 eulnittiteiseteees., Pores a nap Aes ASsaa. RiAg, “ur
‘Say Jae "a hy = & X te Ape ‘al he om ry | Wes,. Pap
1 Pan Bane ~o> *'*2)> 5 . oh awa PNR as An AR ap eee Rann At nee, oma ae HH ear
‘ak it ot TEE UE Ae an Lei reetmanees AARORALI ar Sys Hiaasen i PAN!
beey Pt Nena, nye obhbane coors Laas Tl elalai Na ita
wy : SA, x ROARS ee : "l = : :
~ onan +H built or aa a APRRRGEE Heer lh a6ie
Same SS & he rkA a = i 2a * v Ade ol oh ton - Sv Pea 4 e * 2a88" Bean. 226 aes
Tapidlahot Paster gen rites ate omen cnagtne (ts + hp Raak oo ae CTpe & a
shee A
ed EA Mua Ty v4 ANG, AN Y aay
BE a Byh 4 4 aie a& on » ‘ 263
ANAC A Wen? 48 2] ‘A, an A] _ au qaenne® i i cn p
al TY Nay Ma An. Te wep? LAN YaLCE TYTY Yor ican a , ha Ane + -- @-
a8 m4, aw ~ i € = a- ‘i oP - eS =
SC mime - see econ ia oe e
ae4*
slalel dee
sat

Lol piPy ’ a ee
lel iat ala dal ur iar nen’
| fe AMAA ARAN ~oyee
HA ig He

afore
a
ve °° % +e oN et rae mmeet f e rect Te aba
PRapgas' hh ALEL PIECE oo & ite! |} tae
tots vor a ae ; soir aaa) Pepe. cer La |
ry -. = = mel || Le P betacace Acne age ie NY reet
a 1: {| oe wii as ag BR rat |
» i an ‘ a : a Tw? ‘a ’ ™~ ay YAR x arty ye? =) ~ b 4
+A a en oP bolelalal Shy Pace yy cei ol away a tBtntease2 Tralee three tsececsee TY AAuhb eee
THETA Cet alent a ARN Cea
Yay wi °F” Wepany, 1200 sk gee fey tn ee PAN AOU LDGN BOTY WAN YY VV DY 4:
Bes Son, _~ + a =, 2 tte a Ses rh ap sae Pal
i ames a Re mis + -? ht | ie SONS ka Rw pr
rt TTY Mabatanea.t nore
AT Vase Mes Naa A
Aha “eee 44s PA \]

‘ | ‘ Aw. Lok VECO g eet = 3 ual bia, a
i AAs A jail Raaie* s af ver rN, s a hol ol al at ol al = .
abb\aha. a VAR A N tw OHHH a ae
| | 4 del 5 i =
@: @
~

“wyagak PSEC eC ae.  ~ usPeageraeee ee eeeee Se * Se sae A
ale AA Anal on Bada | oh!
f } & A a) ae ~ ms EY a = “
aA nian ou AAA

Oyhn om, OR Deen nanainatanas
) A. inn es ap MMA Sg an | | ay APRA, all an Pig Rt
Sheeidpe dar eee PAL

.
as? A Uelabl Y | messcceam sees ice: QarArdaadinsrQrhl
pall airy taateis Aes bellal ell at Ra racAan iyo oR Nal ap seussann na ntasll ta? Pap Aimee an,
fa) are ~ 7 ™ Me! fo & > os ‘\
moo oP santa Ey | 5 + 4PHad Py eal : enennes AM, pe 5 ak a | | 28 <A lay am ory 3 wel AY
aa s 2 jaa: Eh a} te v oN me = NAL
be Reann ayy <-* PRPARAAM pasa stale ? - iid = fie a» \ ’
A Bhanae abet 2 fi» ASG PReceteanek:) ee. ‘aon ing NY £ Nea
As ON vee Bis np 268 . (QRRAREE he ae “TN Dee ‘A AAR
ala Hp aA AA, 9 A é ss Ne \ ’ Pol Tl 6 6
a Oe = » = PPOMA, Ao - Pte ‘ mim Pe ss
“idly oie
thy mle y el to ARARBe AR
Ay, i Unes Ariana, BAG APA aipfalagasa Are
Nipiny eee meyeee ae | Uy hyteu Let tt, sat) laiois faba tol ue 2 i] ih
eae | pina nespORRtteAAdRAboti atest vanes
aad’ nantly pppacntenere Me ea gh tuaye SG
a | j g Va aj ao oe s r fat agree . “¢ — : (gd Ra q Ala
hian f BAe ee el Att Leper) Sy Te ie
DATE Cet ihr Pivaae ae peanetseac: : “Ang
"\tre, hye? { mainte Met tlt fo. | Vid Ty e Mase aeee a a ae
a MMMNNIULUMaintSeae,e, o MUNAMMEARM sar eee AMADUEROETIIARRAR I Oneciwe
bers, Pew. U8 i) tancane 0] inh itistratel Mniiiiprs
ATI, SW “ree : rome SpQOy jifnan, =e in nat oael.| aaie
aia $ we Ne babe nen er ee 4 22 \ hea ead ( Lone , Ee
> oft dey, fs f "ela f M Winery © dl lor .
“% -~ “pag
it inns Maa Ve pioatioans ARiGaL pes
pret J ~ Pee “a BN Ar en. * rey nA
» & & Paya, +4 oN es & } r
mAhasd nf PATI LAr | tt bebe OY | Aas “ian
. ts a4 +t ain! eR As Qe Ria: Naga Ae NAG
ipraee Seria acre y wpe Saemmaeaale LL! || b: LE Wall Ral
ts ‘ HT Way a, yar ut vi

i Ma
a8 -.- re tt Ones & Aa \ent wy” \ -
pt ema| Pai: a Ap af TTY) Veer Pers Hayes VO ea ee my 2 Bayt” Asta, , we
yA

ei 2 ets ats
a

a

4-H,
FoR
