nt iy! te BP Te oe ee ee

Pog ae ae IB Dm a, Be DUD?

ie de ie de, pee OO ee
fh De De DY em [2.6 ee

ie J
a

¥. fh ph pe ee PP
bi ay eo . a

ee ee im

cee ae,
ait JH
oo ote we a, ye ae
‘ba Ree ee Be a ae
Oy 2 ih ecb oe
Pag ae ie he fe
*, He et We | ui eee
Py Bin cin gh

2 Vee? ey
eee ee ee

ai Be We
We hy ate
3 Sreszteaes
PSSs2232:
pe = 3

Stee

ane Sesaerea esses

ere

cat
: ces

=e SeSean ne:
ison ee ones. : aeegieseiecesecssg is
Srersaces arts

st SHStesEESe

ae
SS

See

eal

ertotaats

ah
ite
ici
rf)

Sees.
ae geet eee

a

ee

eran

eras)

erga oe 9) 4

tt

Sgt eete eS

ch BL ms: dow” *se
Mero tl Nivel ty

We
ae ee

qv a = Eevee eee RONNIE 5 ars Se ot She - ie m &
Serr iimce. RA an nd ltd hicegeite queestiens pebNiwie Ta

ee OD Te: aie. | ne wv

NN eee Owns Ah al Achat TT hal tts eel aiele el i edi pn opi yi db

Ne trove we eee vrs i : ae Dib Ll ae phon, Ui Sabre, ts } tt ea: | is we s Te vice NF cae

: yw

ae hLes |

oened

ed VOL awe “Nae

oe

eviews TE } ay |

; Rori4d h idee Vgaae LU hal Eo i, qeeeycr.
Se te |p reat  aattoyy ttl: Sumy y ~~ 'Y
» ‘ S 4 i ra

athe ee eae ees,

: wi bale =
Sanarert] =r [Mi s=-
-s~ Saas 7 T~ [else aka

Wreyynta cnn, te HD y ad

"re ene
A APA |
phe) | . NAS = IT TT sce

tYemy

ba enbed

Pw y hu a . hte, wi
sn CEPLGE SECRETE TE Te

2S we
Hie bbe ro 8 pi ia ato seTrenU REL PeNantesetee
PO, eee eeeee i it HT LTT Te sa

MP yy rash: ted yee Se. ce ACaAc ome “a 2 ©
lil ij ¥ asap! sh ester tent wa wm

ry oe a” When a A : = + Pr + Ee : Lb aun lta
‘ A 3 ~ J see g Nis 2 tog Gr Bg Tw : = obi |e whats 1 re ’
Vw”) peer Me TEE | ap acres a

tAton yy : ATTEN TIn econ

Phe sens) a AN! rN pvGecee’. pert tA SASF
Diner E fi oN TEL LL LL Pilea Me ve nT rerivrns | reeet Ste eet ihe ee
LUE Ore ata ouienielfltivy, AMO a
sibel SF aha ty Oe

: tL, ee

y yanaeanene! we sgn W's: siieol Se As
Wy " PA. = = aie tS 4 o!™ 5 yscap>
aes: >ueN Ve wet le elie |) 11 Lh ea onal sit

pop h nna M4 J PF )- gM ws Mea seb
wees’ nS se tvoreritmcascceees © wt

E re ‘“ Vy ul eay Bw
=< pe (Ve ttt y 4 yi bahadheh Tie
1S; vem Sy SHS we ie ee dt p
= = bed = Sk:
wt! i!te epnenee! mre ORTETT
etd LPT bel vid. b Beh diel Sg

WOTeRy ) wyov ah al z , ate
Te Sd beh hte cbd weet inyentytvy beGrey ELL sory i

Set ee aS sO WEY
pe

4 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

EXPLORATIONS AND FIELD-WORK OF THE
SMITHSONTAN INSTITUTION
IN 1927

(PUBLICATION 2957)

CITY OF WASHINGTON
PUBLISHED BY THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION
1928

Bae

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

EXPLORATIONS AND FIELD-WORK OF THE
SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION
IN 1927

(PUBLICATION 2957)

CITY OF WASHINGTON
PUBLISHED BY THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION
1928
TBe Lord Battimore Press

BALTIMORE, MD., U. 8. A.
PREERAGE

The purpose of the Smithsonian Institution as stated by its founder,
James Smithson, is “ the increase and diffusion of knowledge among
men.” The first part of this dual mission is accomplished through
research and exploration; the second part through 12 series of pub-
lications. Because the research of the Institution is wholly in the
field of pure science, the large majority of these publications are
technical in character, being therefore of interest primarily to the
student and the specialist. Besides occasional works in its regular
series which prove to have a popular appeal, two Smithsonian publi-
cations are issued, however, for the definite purpose of attracting
the general reader to matters of scientific interest. These are the
Smithsonian Reports with their general appendixes of authoritative
articles reviewing in non-technical language the yearly advance along
the scientific front, and the annual Smithsonian Exploration and
Field-Work pamphlets started in 1912 to inform the public of Smith-
sonian activities in scientific exploration. It is the hope of the Insti-
tution that this present pamphlet, covering the year 1927, will lend
the reader something of the fascination of scientific field-work, and
also illustrate the wide scope of Smithsonian efforts to increase
knowledge.

In fairness to the Institution, it should be added that it has almost
no unrestricted funds for field-work. Practically all of the expedi-
tions sent out each year are made possible either through the help of
generous friends and patrons of the Institution, or through coopera-
tive arrangements with other scientific agencies whereby costs and
collections are shared.

Wee Siro,

Editor, Sinithsonian Institution.
SO

CONTENTS

PAGE
Abbot, C. G. Studying Sun Rays in Africa, Chile and California........ I
Aldrich, J. M. The Flies of the Western Mountains...................:. 67
Bante iiarleyeklanhis. sAbotanicalabrip, to bormosae. ss.) 85
Bartlett, Harley Harris. The Fast-Disappearing Flora of Sumatra....... 03
Bartsch, Paul. Natural History Studies on the Florida Keys and_ the
WAG StameLT Cli CS mnie ee oc trcteg ss Se ht eet eo Ng gy auc oe sh Ronepeteven staan eRe 51
Bartsch, Paul. The Natural History of the North Shore of the Gulf of
Stem esek WUT ELT CCR Heo taza amet ste ites selov cl Ae amuse taste Nate alone eh Succeumper skeceal Seetenerens 63
Bishops GaWe Accheolocicalsexpeditiomto China... see. +e oo eo rl 109
Cochran, Doris M. Natural History Collecting by Dr. Hugh M. Smith
TIMES ATL ae aE CO Eo eeeP oI Sk ores Sousa ann Range brs ane Ste euesenenc stone 41
Collinss Elenny Bs, Jr Dhe Eskimovo Western Alaskas: ...5...5--0e6-o- 149
Densmore, Frances. Music of the Winnebago Indians..................- 183
Fewkes, J. Walter. The Archeology of the Piedmont Region of South
(Calais Qe eeee Gee ieee ae ewe Aiea Ren Ante Metin et Medea nie rrr smile a. 0 157
RoshacemVienw dire Viinerallsion WiexicOas feces se emee oe clodae aera eeor 21
CidlevaueowWViee Continue: the Blephant telunt:,....cscees cee. see ore II
Gilmore, Charles W. Fossil Footprints in the Grand Canyon of the
Colorado Anz Otay peace roe, oe Shetuecere. ars alee oe artene en ovis ste saat crease 5
Elagrincstonw elaine Nirssion [ndians of Calitonniaw..22-e- ode deae eer 173
Hitchcock, A. S. The Grasses of Oregon and Washington............... IOI
Hough, Walter. Indian Village Sites and Quarries in Tennessee......... 119
Hrdlicka, Ales. Field Studies of Early Man in Europe, 1927............ 121
Judd, Neil M. Prehistoric Pueblo Bonito, New Mexico................. I4I
Killip, Ellsworth P. Botanical Exploration in Eastern Colombia.......... Fe)

Krieger, Herbert W. Tinne Indians of the Lower Yukon River Valley... 125
Krieger, Herbert W. Prehistoric Inhabitants of the Columbia River Valley. 133

Michelson, Truman. Language Studies Among the Fox and Northern

/Neratoaiinvsy. lisareliennic tear eceioeia amon nce een oa oor rno Seno an Gama aias-o6 179
Rohtstnwinwks Geolosical Explorations in Michigatvesce.cc. oc: sae.- ose By)
Resser, Charles E. Cambrian Geology of the Rocky Mountains.......... 17
Roberts, Frank H. H., Jr. A Late Basket Maker Village of the Southwest. 165
IR@Se, JJ. IN, AV Sekinday ioe 1einlolose it Were Gaga rcocoguscooudouecpoboeet 81
SchimittewValdowle. Rhe Crustaceans of South America... .2..55.4.2+.-.0- 45
Swwalllen, Jaisom 1X, Atie Gimicges wii (Crilkui@atels soc ocouecncoccdecv0cngbogec 105

Wetmore, Alexander. Zoological Exploration in Hispaniola........... 38.
SUDYING SUN IRAYS INGAP RICA, CElheE Ey AIND
CALIFORNIA
Bye CG. AB BO,

Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, and Director of the
Astrophysical Observatory

On Mount Montezuma, in the Atacama Desert of Chile, at 9,000
feet elevation, and on Table Mountain, California, at 7,500 feet, over-
looking the Mojave Desert, the Smithsonian Astrophysical Observa-
tory has two stations for measuring the intensity of sun rays on
which all life depends. A third station on Mount Brukkaros, within
a Hottentot reservation of South West Africa, is supported by
funds of the National Geographic Society but administered by the
Smithsonian. These three stations are cooperating to measure solar
radiation on every possible day of the year. The observations are
made and reduced in a manner to indicate the daily intensity of sun
rays as they are outside our atmosphere, and to reveal any changes
therein.

If one should ask: Are the sun’s rays growing weaker or stronger,
or are they fluctuating in a manner to produce predictable changes in
weather, it would be impossible to answer because it is only recently
that records of solar heat measurements have been available. Not
until the Chilean observatory was founded by the Smithsonian in
1918 did daily measurements throughout the year begin. It is hoped
to carry on the observations for a long term of years, so that mete-
orologists of the next generation can consult these basic measures,
and, comparing them with climate and weather all over the world,
perhaps be 1n position to forecast conditions with great advantage.

Within the past year, several results of promise have appeared.
Iirst, the march of the monthly mean values of solar radiation from
1918 to 1926, inclusive, shows evidence: (a) That increased solar
radiation attends increased sun-spot activity; (b) that a regular
periodic change of solar radiation of considerable amplitude occurs
in a period of 253 months; (c) that less important periodicities of
15 and 11 months also appear.

Second, the observations of Dr. Pettit of Mount Wilson Observa-
tory on the changes in the extreme ultra-violet spectrum of the sun,

I
LS)

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Fic. 1.—The desolate Mount Brukkaros, South West Africa, where the
Smithsonian operates for the National Geographic Society its solar radiation
station. The dwelling in foreground, the observatory beyond on the left.

Iic. 2—Mr. Greeley observing the sun’s heat with the silver-disk pyrheli-

ometer at the National Geographic station on Mt. Brukkaros, South West
Africa.
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1927 3

which he finds amounting to from fifty to one hundred per cent, go
closely parallel to the changes in total solar radiation of from one to
three per cent observed by the Smithsonian stations.

Third, Dr. Austin of the U. S. Bureau of Standards, observing
the monthly average of intensity in the receipt of radio signals from
great distances, finds that these fluctuate in parallel with the changes
in solar radiation.

Fic. 3—The South West African water-boy and his charges.

Fourth, the investigations of Mr. H. H. Clayton on relations of
solar change to weather continue to give indications of useful cor-
relation.

If the periodicities of 11, 15, and 253 months continue to be found
in future years, and to represent as now they do the major part of
long range solar variation, then whatever of change in terrestrial
affairs may be proved to depend on these changes in the sun will
probably become predictable in general terms for many months
in advance.

The Montezuma station has been in charge of Mr. Hugh B. Free-
man, assisted by Mr. Eugene E. Warner. At the Table Mountain
a rd

Fic. 4.—The barren slopes of Mt. Montezuma where the Smithsonian main-
tains its South American solar radiation station.

Fic. 5.—Field-director Freeman reducing observations with our slide-rule
machine, which saves three-fourths the computing.

4
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1927

on

station Mr. A. F. Moore, in charge, has been assisted by Mr. Harlan H.
Zodtner. In South West Africa, Mr. W. H. Hoover assisted by
Mr. F. A. Greeley, has established the station on Mount Brukkaros
and observed beginning December, 1926, until the present with good
success. Unfortunately, the sky has been less cloudless than was
anticipated, but old residents claim that the year has been abnormal
in that respect.

Fic. 6.—Mr. and Mrs. Freeman and Mr. Warner starting on their 12-mile
journey for food and water for Montezuma station.

The following quotations from letters of [Hoover and Greeley
give something of the flavor of the conditions :

We have just discovered that we have some of the large lizards on Mt.
Brukkaros. Our native boy killed one a few days ago which was four feet long.
He said he had seen others which were very much larger. We shall try to
catch one of the large ones and send the skin to you for the Smithsonian, as I
understand the large lizards are rather rare now.

We have been having plenty of experience in motor travel in this country.
A short time ago I was returning home with a load of provisions and just as I
arrived in the middle of the Fish river (dry sand except after heavy rains )
one of the axles broke. Well, the Fish river is 40 miles from Keetmanshoop
6 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

and 20 from the mountain. Our native boy was with me, so I sent a note to
Fred and he telephoned to Keetmanshoop for an axle. One arrived after a
day and a half. In the mean time I camped in the middle of the river. Not a
place I would choose for a picnic with the temperature about 100° and a sand
storm most of the day.

On the twentieth of this month, one-third of an inch of rain fell. It filled our
waterhole full again, so we now have no doubts but that there will always be
an adequate supply there. The rain was quite general and heavier towards the

Fic. 7—Looking over into the Mojave desert from the Smithsonian station on
Table Mountain, California.

north. The Fish river came down in flood and was between 9 and 10 feet high
the first day. We drove over to the river Sunday afternoon where the road
crosses between Tses and Berseba. It is a pretty spot there. After a lunch of
tea and sandwiches we donned bathing suits and proceeded to treat ourselves
to a swim in muddy water. We all enjoyed it thoroughly and were loath to
come out after an hour of swimming about.

We hear leopards almost every night now. The Hottentot captain has prom-
ised to send out a lot of boys and dogs to catch them. The boys arm themselves
with clubs, and with the aid of the dogs a leopard does not have much chance

of escape.
FOSS lt. b@@ TERRINITS) INTHE eGR AND CAN YON
OF THE COLORADO, ARIZONA
By CHARLES W. GILMORE,

Curator, Division of Vertebrate Paleontology, U. S. National Museum

The fossil tracks of extinct four-footed animals were first dis-
covered in the Grand Canyon of the Colorado in 1915, but the abun-
dance of their occurrence and their great diversity of kind remained
unknown until 1924. In that year and again in 1926 collections of
them were made for the U. S. National Museum, and my studies
of these materials have disclosed the presence of no less than 26
genera and 32 species of fossil footprints. In number of species,
and in excellence of preservation of the tracks, this area easily out-
ranks all other known American localities for Permian and Penn-
sylvanian footprints.

The great antiquity of these fossilized tracks of extinct creatures
of a by-gone age is clearly shown by the fact that they occur from
goo to 3,800 feet below the top of the canyon wall. This means that
since the first of these animals left their footprints in what was then
moist sand, nearly 4,000 feet of rock-making materials were deposited
in successive layers above them, not to mention the hundreds of
feet more that no doubt were eroded from the present rim of the
canyon. Add to this period of up-building, the length of time required
for the cutting of the canyon through 4,000 feet of solid rock, and
we have an idea of the tremendous age of these fossil footprints.

A third visit to the Grand Canyon under the auspices of the Grand
Canyon Exhibit Committee of the National Academy of Sciences,
was made in the late spring of 1927 for the dual purpose of locating
and preparing exhibits of tracks i situ, and making further col-
lections of fossil footprints for the U. S. National Museum. Both
of these projects were successfully carried out.

Two small field exhibits, one in the Coconino, the other in the
Supai formation were prepared, the purpose being to show the tracks
precisely as they occur in nature in order that they may be viewed
by visitors, through fixed telescopes which the committee plans to
place in front of the new observation station now being erected on
Yavapai Point. In order to find suitable locations for these exhibits

7
SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Fic. 8.—Slab of fossil footprints from the Hermit shale, as exposed at the
head of Hermit Gorge, Grand Canyon National Park, Arizona. The follow-
ing forms have been recognized: Hylopus hermitanus Gilmore, Parabaropus
coloradensis (Lull) and Collettosaurus pentadactylus Gilmore. This slab is
6% feet wide and 5 feet long.

Fic. 9.—Footprint exhibit in situ in the Supai formation on the west side
of O'Neill Butte, Grand Canyon National Park, Arizona. (Photograph by
Matthes. )

1 Se aa
Pe ee oe es

_ Fic. 10—Fossil trackway on large slab of Supai sandstone, quarried out
in building the new Yaki trail along the east side of O’Neill Butte. (Photo-
graph by Matthes.)

9
1O SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

which obviously must be visible from the observing station, a con-
siderable amount of exploratory work was necessary. As a result
of this, the known geographical range of fossil tracks in the Grand
Canyon was greatly extended and a considerable amount of new
material was secured for the National collections. Subsequent study
has shown some of the tracks to be undescribed, but the most note-
worthy specimen collected, from an exhibition viewpoint, is the large
slab from the Hermit formation shown in the accompanying illustra-
tion. This gives a vivid picture of the diversity of animal life that
once roamed over this ancient mud flat.

An interesting development of these investigations was the dis-
covery by Mr. G. E. Sturdevant, Park Naturalist, of a track-bearing
horizon in the Bright Angel section of the Middle Cambrian. Thus
four distinct ichnite horizons are established in this one geological
section, distributed as follows: Coconino sandstone, 900 to 1,030 feet ;
Hermit, 1,350 to 1,400 feet ; Supai, 1,760; to 1,800 feet ; and Tapeats,
3,600 to 3,800 feet below the top of the Canyon wall.

On the south rim of the Grand Canyon, tracks have been found
on Grand View Trail on the east and Dripping Springs on the west,
these two localities being separated by a distance of 27 miles, and this
last exploration leads to the belief that tracks can be found in the
above mentioned horizons wherever the physical conditions will per-
mit search being made for them. In view of this last statement, it is
of interest to add that Mr. Sturdevant has recently discovered fossil
tracks in the Coconino and Supai formations on the north rim of the
canyon, some 14 miles distant in an air line from those found on the
south rim.
CONTINUING DEE KREPHANT TUN?
By We GHDEEN:

Assistant Curator, Division of Vertebrate Paleontology, U. S. National Museum

Extinct elephants, the mammoths (represented by at least three
species) and their near relatives, the mastodons, were native in North
America throughout the entire Pleistocene Age, that geologic period
which just preceded the present time, and which was marked by sev-
eral epochs of widespread glaciation. During the interglacial periods
and continuing even after the last great ice sheet had disappeared or
at least retreated far to the north, these great beasts roamed widely
over most of the United States, traveled far southward into Mexico
and Central America, and extended their range northwestward into
Alaska. Their fossil remains are numerous and have been found in
hundreds of localities over the regions just mentioned, yet complete
skeletons and even skulls are seldom found and recovered. One factor
seems largely responsible for this, namely the great size of these ani-
mals. It must have been only under the most favorable conditions
of accumulating deposits that entire carcasses of such very large crea-
tures would be covered and preserved. In consequence most of the
finds reported represent only a few scattered bones and more often
a jaw or tooth, for teeth are less easily destroyed by the elements
than other parts of the skeleton. Another contributing cause for
scarcity of good material of these animals is due to the fact that many
of the best preserved skeletons have been discovered in swamp-dredg-
ing, or other excavation work by men who have not had the technical
training and special knowledge required to collect such material and
in consequence most of these have been greatly damaged or entirely
destroyed for scientific purposes. From this it may be rightly inferred
that to obtain good mountable material of these ancient elephants, it
is necessary to send into the collecting fields especially trained men,
experienced in collecting fossil bones and properly equipped for sys-
tematic search and recovery of material discovered.

The National Museum has never been able to do this in any ade-
quate way owing to lack of funds, but has been obliged to depend
upon following up and investigating such occasional promising reports
of finds as come to the Museum from time to time, and as small allot-

ments are found available.
2 I
12 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Fic. 11.—Sedimentary deposits of Pleistocene Age. Typically eroded ex-
posure near top of plains a few miles northwest of Curtis, Oklahoma.

_ Fic. 12.—Cut-bank of Pleistocene and recent deposits in valley fill about
60 miles west of Alva, Oklahoma. Bones of mammoth were found at base
of bank.
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1927 13

Fic. 13.—Hill of stratified Pleistocene stream-deposits resting on red-beds
of Triassic Age. About 2% miles northnorthwest of Curtis, Oklahoma. On
the slope of this hill were found teeth of an extinct species of horse, and a
large section of a tusk of the mammoth.

Fic. 14.—Opposite side of hill shown in figure 11. A few mammoth bones
were found here. A palate of a skull with both cheek-teeth in place are
being uncovered at spot marked by whisk-broom.
14 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

In this way the Museum has procured in years gone by three good
skeletons of mastodons, one a rare and unique species ; but as yet no
skeleton of the mammoth suitable for mounting has been secured,
although several reports of mammoth bones which have turned out
to be of some value have been investigated. A short account of one
of these was published in last year’s Explorations and Field-W ork of
the Smithsonian Institution.’

More recently two additional favorable reports of such discoveries
came to the Museum, one from Curtis, a small town in northwestern
Oklahoma, the other from Sarasota, Florida. I was detailed to investi-
gate these finds and near the end of March left Washington for this
purpose going first to Oklahoma and afterward to Florida. The
Oklahoma find was reported by Mr. B. C. Baxter, a resident and
proprietor of a newspaper in the little town of Curtis. This gentleman
met me on my arrival on March 31st and took me at once to the
locality at the head of a little canyon about two and one-half miles
north-northeast of the town where investigation was at once begun.
This was followed by several days search here and exploration of the
surrounding country. It seems not out of place to express here my
appreciation of Mr. Baxter’s public spirited attitude in the matter,
first in reporting his discoveries to the National Museum, and after-
ward in rendering what assistance he could in furthering the work of
investigation and exploration during my stay at Curtis.

The prospect at the canyon head just mentioned looked promising
but on investigation proved disappointing. Many fossil bone frag-
ments were scattered along the exposures, but a little digging soon
revealed the fact that there was small hope of securing anything like
a complete skeleton here, as it was quite evident the fossil-bearing
beds, which are of Pleistocene Age, represent rather slowly accumu-
lated river channel deposits and the contained bones had been much
broken and scattered before their original burial in the sand and clay
layers of which the beds are composed. However, a good palate
portion of a mammoth skull containing the cheek teeth, some impor-
tant foot bones, ribs, vertebrae, and also a few teeth of an extinct
species of horse, probably Equus scotti, were collected. At another
locality, two or three miles southeast, were later found a jaw and
other bones of a rare species of ground sloth belonging to the group
known as Nothrotherium, apparently representing a newly discovered
species of this genus.

* Smithsonian Misc. Coll., Vol. 78, No. 7, pp. 48-51.
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1927 I

on

Fic. 15—A reminder of the great Mississippi flood taken from the rear
end of Pullman as train was nearing the Arkansas end of the bridge which
spans the river at Memphis, Tennessee.

Fic. 16—A tributary of Peace River near Zolfo Springs, Florida. Fossil
bones of Pleistocene Age, including a tooth of the mammoth were picked up
on spot where men are standing.
16 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

In my exploration by automobile, of many miles of the surrounding
country. I found abundant evidence that there are many isolated areas,
usually of limited extent, of fossil-bearing Pleistocene deposits in that
general region. These seem to be remnants of ancient stream channels
which once occupied the high plains country before the present valleys
were formed and the present drainage systems established. While
none of the exposures examined yielded much of value they gave
promise of good returns had time and funds permitted a much more
extended exploration.

Leaving western Oklahoma April 11, [ arrived in Sarasota, Florida,
on the morning of April 13. Here I was met by Mr. J. E. Moore, the

Fic. 17.—Drain ditch in north city limits of Sarasota, Florida. Mr. Moore,
of Sarasota, is pointing to spot in the bottom of the ditch where several
fossil-horse teeth were recovered.

discoverer of the fossil bones in the vicinity of Sarasota, and received
from him the same cordial and helpful assistance I had had from
Mr. Baxter in Oklahoma. Things looked promising here also, but,
as in Oklahoma, I was destined to be again disappointed in my search
for the “ big prize,” namely, a mountable skeleton of the mammoth.
Also, as in Oklahoma, the visit to this locality was not unproductive,
as, in the few days of my stay in Florida, from the several localities
we visited in this vicinity and in the neighborhood of Zolfo Springs,
about 60 miles east of Sarasota, I recovered a respectable little col-
lection of fossil bones and teeth, including remains of the mammoth,
mastodon, extinct horse, bison, camel, tapir and other smaller kinds
of prehistoric mammals, all from Pleistocene deposits.
CAMBRIAN GEOLOGY OF THE ROCKY MOUNTAINS
By CHARLES FE, RESSER:

Associate Curator, Division of Stratigraphic Paleontology,
U.S. National Museum

For a number of years I have been carrying on field-work, both in
the western United States and in Europe, under the direction of
Dr. Charles D. Walcott, to obtain data to be used in systematizing
the Cambrian System and more particularly to find a Middle Cam-
brian section complete enough to serve as a standard of reference for
these strata in other parts of the world. Owing to the lamented death
of Dr. Walcott in February, 1927, it became necessary for me to
interrupt this program and visit a wider area this past summer than
would otherwise have been done.

Dr. Walcott was occupied during the last few years of his life
in summarizing the knowledge gained in the extensive researches con-
ducted throughout his long and fruitful career, with the result that
at his death he left a large uncompleted manuscript presenting a com-
prehensive treatment of the stratigraphy in the Canadian Rocky
Mountains where he made many remarkable discoveries. As I] was
detailed to edit and attempt to complete this manuscript, it became
necessary to reexamine certain Canadian sections for stratigraphic
details which were found lacking when Dr. Walcott assembled his
data and which he had hoped to seek in the field himself,

Since the motor truck used in previous years had been sold as no
longer useful for strenuous field-work, a new one was purchased in
Washington, through the generous assistance of Mrs. C. D. Walcott,
and driven across the continent. Our party traveled by this means
from the time of leaving Washington until the outfit was stored at
Salt Lake City, a total of more than 6,000 miles, traversing a con-
siderable portion of the continent. It was a pleasure to find that
Dr. R. S. Bassler, curator of stratigraphic paleontology, U. S. Na-
tional Museum, was willing to accompany me, and so I have had the
benefit of his advice and experience in stratigraphic geology, thus
assuring more certain results in the field determinations. My son,
Harold Resser, served as camp assistant.

17
18 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Fic. 18—Dr. Bassler entertaining a bear in the Yellowstone Park forest.
(Photograph by Resser. )

Fic. 19.—Vermilion Pass Camp among the tall conifers on the Continental
Divide. Mt. Whymper in the background exposes a fine Cambrian section.
(Photograph by Resser.)
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 19027 19

We left Washington on July 21 and met Dr. Bassler in Provo,
Utah, July 29, having covered the 2,250 miles in eight days, one of
which was spent in a repair shop, a delay made necessary by a plains-
man, fearful of the outer edge of a winding mountain road, coming
up on the wrong side of the road. No other means of transportation
than by motor can give one such an intimate view of our country nor
so impress on the mind its immensity and the extent of its resources.

After securing the portion of the camp outfit that had been left
in storage at Provo, we moved on to Salt Lake City where a confer-
ence with the local geologists was held concerning their more recent
discoveries and advice as to desirable places to visit was obtained.
Here Dr. Bassler was able to arrange for an important collection of
Permian fossils, which has since been received at the Museum.

After briefly studying the Wasatch Mountains and traversing
Yellowstone Park, the sections in the mountains immediately to the
north were examined, the one along Newland Creek, Meagher County,
Montana, being studied in some detail. Then since our route led by
the Little Belt Mountains, stops were made here to study their Cam-
brian strata.

The main objective of the summer’s work was the general region
of the Bow Valley, Canadian Rocky Mountains, to the north and
west of Banff, Alberta. The first camp was made on Vermilion Pass
on the Banff-Windermere road, in which vicinity a number of sec-
tions were studied. It was hoped that as a side issue of the season’s
work the vexing question as to the extract stratigraphic boundary
between the Lower and Middle Cambrian could be determined, and
here in Vermilion Pass there seemed to be a chance for finding the
necessary data. However, the time and equipment at our disposal did
not permit us to reach a sufficient number of points to enable us to
decide the question. A survey of the interesting and important sec-
tion in the Sawback Range was next made with the idea of verifying
the presence of certain Cambrian and Ozarkian formations.

Several days were spent in the vicinity of Lake Louise where
many of the best Cambrian sections are located. Camp was then
moved into the Kicking Horse Canyon near Field, where are located
two remarkable fossil localities: one on Mt. Stephen, which has
been known for more than 50 years; and the other above Burgess
Pass, where Dr. Walcott discovered the most important Cambrian
fauna ever found. We continued down the Kicking Horse River
to Golden, reviewing the great sections exposed along the gorge of
that river.
20 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

In the Columbia River valley we had the good fortune to be
accompanied by Dr. Charles S. Evans of the Canadian Geological
Survey, who by his assistance saved us much time, particularly in
the Sinclair Canyon section. Continuing up the Columbia valley to
its head, then again into the Kootenay drainage, we had the pleasure
of discovering a new locality for some very important Lower Cam-
brian beds near Fort Steele, British Columbia.

Returning now to the United States, and with the main stratt-
graphic work completed, Dr. Bassler left the party at Coeur d’Alene,

Fic. 20.—Cliff of Upper Cambrian beds in Newland Creek Canyon,
Montana, with camp in the foreground. All the strata from the Pre-
Cambrian to the Carboniferous dip uniformly to the west. (Photograph by
Resser. )

Idaho. He continued to the West Coast where, before returning to
Washington, he spent a few days studying the geology of the Coast
Range from which he has previously described several faunas. My
son and I then traveled eastward across the picturesque Bitteroot
Mountains, through the extensive mining district of Idaho, a region
always interesting to the geologist. A brief stop was made at Logan,
Montana, where the accumulated fossils were packed and shipped.
Following this, visits were made to outcrops of interest in the moun-
tains of the south, on the way back to Salt Lake City, where the truck
and camp outfit were stored at the University of Utah, through the
kindness of members of the Department of Geology.
PES MIND RAS OF MEXIC®@

By W. F. FOSHAG,
Assistant Curator, Division of Mineralogy and Petrology,
U.S. National Museum

Although Mexico is one of the richest countries in the world in
mineral resources, but few collections of its minerals have been made
and comparatively little is known of the mineralogy and geology of
Mexico. In 1926 a start was made towards assembling a representa-
tive collection for the U. S. National Museum, and this year, in con-
tinuation of the work, I visited a number of localities in the States
of Sonora, Chihuahua, Durango, Zacatecas and Guanajuato.

Las Chispas mine, near Arispe, Sonora, is well known for the
richness of its silver ore and the beauty and great size of the various
silver minerals found there. It was with the hope of acquiring a
complete series of these specimens that I first proceeded to Arispe.
The rich ore bodies are comparatively small pockets lined with large
crystals of stephanite, polybasite, argentite and pyrargyrite and it
is from these pockets that the remarkable specimens come. A small
series, not so extensive as had been hoped for, yet a very valuable
addition to our collections, was obtained. As incidental to this part
of the field-work, I studied some rocks in the vicinity of Arispe and
made some collections at Cananea, Sonora and Bisbee, Arizona.

From Sonora, I went to El Paso where I was joined by Mr. Harry
Berman, of the Mineralogical Museum of Harvard University, who
acted as assistant throughout the rest of the field season. After a
few days in Mexico City, where the Hon. Sr. Genaro Estrada, Act-
ing Secretary of Foreign Relations, graciously received us and ex-
tended the necessary permission for investigation and collection, we
proceeded to Guanajuato in the state of the same name. The famous
Veta Madre of Guanajuato upon which mining first began in 1558,
has probably been the richest silver-gold vein of the entire world.
The production of the district, mainly from this one vein, has reached
the enormous total of $1,000,000,000, and it is still producing about
1,000 tons of ore per day. The rich bonanza ores of the early days
now appear to be entirely exhausted, but mining is made profitable
by the efficient treatment of large bodies of low grade ore. The Veta

21
22, SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

2.
7“ Bo PN
ie * iy os =
‘Me ‘4 aie ee
. _—
Fic. 21.—Typical valley and mountain range of the Plateau region of

Mexico. Yuccas and creosote bush on the hill-slope. (Photograph by
Foshag. )

Fic. 22—The “ Bufa” of Mapimi. A typical mountain range of central
Mexico. Cretaceous limestone sloping gently to the south. (Photograph
by Foshag.)
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1927 Z,

Madre occupies a well defined fault with schists as the foot, and
conglomerates as the hanging wall.

From Guanajuato we went to Zacatecas, another of Mexico's
famous camps. Several large veins are found in the district, the most
conspicuous being the Cantera vein prominently visible from the cen-
ter of the city. This vein can be easily followed to the south for a
distance of 15 kilometers or more. The geology of this district 1s
very similar to that of Guanajuato. Mining has almost ceased in
Zacatecas, presumably due to the exhaustion of the bodies of com-
mercial ore but a number of smaller camps in the vicinity have
promise. We visited one such district, Ojo Caliente, where the Bil-
boa Mine attracted our attention because of the abundance here of
the chloro-arsenate of lead, mimetite, and the report that other rare
minerals were obtainable in quantity. Unfortunately the low price
of lead necessitated the closing of the mine a few weeks before we
arrived, and the exceptional material known to be still in the mine
was unobtainable.

Reported new finds of fine specimens at the Ojuela Mine, visited
during the field-work of last year, brought us there. I was able to
study somewhat more in detail some of the more interesting fea-
tures of this important deposit of lead and silver and was able to
collect, together with pyromorphite and other rare and beautiful
minerals, a number of good specimens of the very rare species, car-
minite, an arsenate of lead and iron.

While in Mexico City we had the good fortune to arrange with
the officials of the Penoles Company for permission to visit Naica,
in the State of Chihuahua, and take out of the famous gypsum cave
of the Maravilla Mine two groups of the enormous crystals that are
found there. The group selected for the Museum’s exhibit consists
of 15 crystals, the smallest three feet, and the longest five feet in
length. The entire group measures ten feet in length, and will be
used to reconstruct a section of this unique cave. The two taken out
are the finest examples of large crystal groups in any Museum in the
world. Some smaller but very fine groups of clear gypsum were
also procured.

Our next stop was at the old and famous camp of Santa Eulalia
where we were able by rare good luck to collect at the Potosi Mine
some unique specimens of pyrrhotite, a sulphide of iron. Single com-
plete individuals, two inches across and an inch thick, as well as
unusual matrix specimens, are believed to be unparalleled. The ore
INSTITUTION

SMITHSONIAN

‘1

(‘seysoy Aq ydeisojoyg) ‘oulyy
seXey snowey 9Y4} JO Oe IY} VsO]DUT PUNOIsyIeq IY}
UT [[IY 94} JO PIUUIUUINS JY} Je sTTeM ay] “OorxXayy ‘oyenfeuens)
‘seAey ap jansiyy ueS JO our dy} Jo YOInyQ—Efz ‘oI

eeresper ete

SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1927 25

Fic. 25.—Guanajuato, Mexico. The mines of Guanajuato have produced over
one billion dollars in gold and silver.

Fic. 26.—Street in Guanajuato, Mexico. Burros ladened with alfalfa.
(Photograph by Foshag.)
20 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

bodies of Santa Eulalia, aside from their great economic importance
are of unusual geological interest. They are in the form of huge
chimneys that cut across beds of limestone. From these chimneys
lateral extensions called mantos extend for variable distances hori-
zontally. One such manto which we examined in the Mina Vieja
Mine had been followed for two miles from its source and had been
in continuous ore.

Our last work was done at Los Lamentos revisiting the Ahumada
Mine. The ore body of this mine consists of a continuous maito
that follows the contact between a fine-grained blue limestone and a
highly fossiliferous pink to light gray one, and is characterized by an
aureole of dolomitized limestone about it. Beautiful specimens of
various lead minerals, wulfenite, vanadinite and descloizite are often
abundant at the Ahumada Mine and make very desirable display
specimens. Some choice material was collected and the study of the
deposit considerably extended.

The field-work in Sonora was undertaken with money from the
Roebling Fund. Later work was in collaboration with the Miner-
alogical Museum of Harvard University. For the successful field-
work I am indebted to a number of the mining men of Mexico, with-
out whose active cooperation little could have been accomplished.
GEOLOGICAL EXPLORATIONS IN MICHIGAN

By ERWIN R. POHL,
Aid, Division of Stratigraphic Paleontology, U. S. National Museum

Under an arrangement existing between the U. S. National Mu-
seum and the Milwaukee Public Museum an expedition, represented
by myself for the Museum and by Mr. Gilbert Raasch, Assistant
Curator of Geology of the Milwaukee Museum, was formed with the
purpose of continuing the detailed study of the little-known but
highly important stratigraphy of the Middle Paleozoic of the mid-
eastern and central United States. In the two previous years the
work had been carried as far west as the Ontario peninsula. In pur-
suance of the general outline this year’s itinerary took us through
the northern central basin province.

The collections of the National Museum already contained much
excellent material from many of the Michigan localities; but the
disconnected data, brought together over a period of a half century
by a score of collectors interested primarily in the quality of their
specimens, was insufficient to a clear understanding of the geologic
history of the region. It was hoped that the results of this explora-
tive work would not only throw light on the gaps in the sequence
but also establish tie-points with beds of similar age in neighboring
areas.

The area covered by eastern Wisconsin, southern peninsular Michi-
gan, and southwestern Ontario is in the region of the ground moraine
of the Great Glacier. Most of the topographic features of this coun-
try are thus due to glacial phenomena and only in certain portions of
it is the bed-rock exposed. Such patches, due to subsequent denuda-
tion, are to be seen in the vicinity of Milwaukee, in a narrow band
near the northern edge of southern Michigan, and near the shores
of Lake Huron in Ontario. From the fossils contained in the out-
crops of these beds it has long been known that the period of deposi-
tion was during Middle Devonian times ; but the actual interrelations
among themselves and their positions in the type section of this age,
as it is evidenced in New York State, has formerly remained unde-
termined.

3

to
NI
28 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Fic. 27,—A typical exposure of bed-rock on the western Michigan shore.
Little Traverse Bay, Michigan. Because of the local structure the geologist
has only to follow the shore-line to determine the entire sequence. (Photo-
graph by E. R. Pohl.)

Fic. 28.—An outcrop of Mississippian black shale on the shores of Lake
Michigan near Norwood, Mich. By comparison with Fig. 51 of Smithsonian
Explorations and Field-W ork in 1026 the similarity of these beds with those
of Ontario can be seen although 300 miles separate the localities. (Photo-
graph by E. R. Pohl.)

SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1927 29

Our party remained at Milwaukee for a week collecting material
and data in the Lake Church and Milwaukee quarries before pro-
ceeding into Michigan. Here a camp was established at Charlevoix,
from which were explored all localities known to the Michigan Sur-
vey and many new ones. Owing to the fact that the geology was
complicated by local structure and limited exposures, camp was not
moved for two weeks. On completion of the work in the vicinity of
Little Traverse Bay, the outcrops were traced across the belt to the
eastern shore of Michigan. Much of the country is swampy and
undeveloped, and traveling is difficult away from the beaten paths of
the tourists. Irom an industrial standpoint the northern belt of
Michigan is highly interesting, for it contains several of the largest
limestone quarries in the world (fig. 29). Much of the rock is dolo-
mitized and it is impossible to produce the fine grades of cement
which we find in the New York Portland works; but a good deal
of the material is converted for alkali uses. This entire area is a
collector’s paradise, for nearly every bed in the section is crowded
with excellently preserved fossils in great variety (fig. 30). Fossils
are perhaps better known to the layman in this region than in most
districts of the United States, for the gravel of the bathing beaches
and the shores of Little Traverse Bay (figs. 27 and 28) are com-
posed of water-worn pebbles of fossil corals and shells, locally
called “ Petoskey Stones.”

A visit to Silica, Ohio, to obtain a collection of what are probably
the finest preserved Devonian fossils ever found, led to a meeting
with Dr. J. E. Carman, of Ohio State University. As this fossil
fauna has been Dr. Carman’s special province of research, a day of
collecting and study was very profitably spent with him here.

On the trip through Ontario to Limestone Mountain, Mich., addi-
tional data and collections relating to the Ordovician, Silurian, and
Lower Devonian were assembled. Limestone Mountain (fig. 31),
near Baraga at the southern end of the Keweenaw Peninsula, is an
erosional remnant or monadnock, forming an isolated reminder that
this area was below sea level during much of Lower and Middle
Palezoic times.

Up to within the present decade it was believed by the majority
of geological students that the interior of our continent was a region
of vast seas which existed with but little change over long lapses of
time. Such an inland sea, stretching from eastern New York to
Towa and Missouri, and from Kentucky to northern Michigan, was
30 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

wv

Fic. 29—Part of one of the many enormous limestone quarries in the
northern belt of southern Michigan. All equipment is electrified. In the
foreground is a log barracade for the protection of quarrymen during the
noonday blasting. (Photograph by E. R. Pohl.)

Fic. 30.—Where fossils are legion. A blue shale has been thrown out of
the test pit in the foreground and in weathering has exhibited thousands of
fine shells. Quarry near Charlevoix, Mich. (Photograph by E. R. Pohl.)
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1927 31

Fic. 31.—Limestone Mountain, near Baraga, Mich. This isolated erosional
remnant is the only tangible proof that parts of the northern peninsula of
Michigan were basins of marine deposition during most of Paleozoic time.

(Photograph by FE. R. Pohl.)

Fig. 32—A quarry face illustrating one of the most interesting features
of stratigraphy. The black line through the center of the picture draws the
boundaries of two formations and shows surface erosion of the one and
overlap by the other. Such a contact is called an unconformity. Near
Petoskey, Mich. (Photograph by FE. R. Pohl.)
32 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

hypothecated for the period of Hamilton deposition. The shore line,
it was admitted, was irregular and a narrow strait through which
there was supposed to be a mingling of the faunas of the eastern and
western arms of the immense sea was thought to have existed where
the state boundaries now define Wisconsin and Michigan. Dr. E. O.
Ulrich of the U. S. Geological Survey was the first to point out that
it was only in exceptional cases that such conditions prevailed, and
now, through the present detailed study, it is definitely known that the
actual conditions of deposition were quite different. It is still ques-
tionable as to just where the Wisconsin Devonian strata belong in
the general geological column; but stratigraphic observations have
established the fact that the entire Michigan section lies below that
of Ontario while the Ontario strata belong in a position below the
middle of the typical Hamilton series of New York State.

Nearly two tons of selected specimens of beautifully preserved
and finely sculptured fossil shells and corals were shipped to the
Museum. These, together with the collections already in the Mu-
seum’s possession, form as nearly a perfect series of fossils from
these beds as can be brought together.

—

ZOOLOGICAL EXELORAMON WIN HISPANIOVUA
By ALEXANDER WETMORE,

Assistant Secretary, Smithsonian Institution

The island that Columbus named Hispaniola, divided politically
between the Dominican Republic and the Republic of Haiti, offers, in
its zoological features, one of the most interesting areas for study in
the West Indies. To supplement the collections previously made for
the National Museum in Hispaniola by Dr. W. L. Abbott, and to
obtain information on faunal areas and distribution for use in re-
ports now in preparation on the Abbott collections, | conducted zoo-
logical explorations on the island, under the Swales Fund, from
March 27 to June 3, 1927.

Following my arrival in Port au Prince, and a few days spent in
that vicinity, work was begun at Fonds-des-Négres in the southern
peninsula where, in company with Dr. C. H. Arndt, a considerable
area was covered, from Aquin on the south coast to the great fresh
water lake known as the Etang de Miragoane on the north. Much of
Haiti is dry and arid, but the vegetation in the better watered region
at Fonds-des-Négres appears more as is anticipated in visits to
subtropical regions. Guinea hens running wild in abundance, native
coots with smooth, glistening white plates on the forehead, gray or
green lizards 12 inches in length clinging motionless on the tree
trunks, and for some unknown reason held in the deepest fear by the
Haitian laborers, were a very few of the many attractive features of
this locality. It was here that I had opportunity to investigate the
communal nests of the palm chat, a bird peculiar to the island. The
palm chats are as large as bluebirds, and are of gregarious habit,
being found in little bands that construct at the top of some royal
palm a permanent home of sticks, a structure at times six or seven
feet in diameter.

On returning from the southern peninsula, we set out one morning
from Pétionville, a village in the hills back of the capital city, for the
great mountain ridge of La Selle. Our road, at first broad and open,
wound steadily up the slopes of the hills bordering the Cul-de-Sac
plain toward Kenscoff and Furcy to altitudes where the air was cool
and pleasant, although we looked far down into the shimmering heat

33
a

34 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION |

Fic. 33.—Aquin Bay, Haiti, on the southern shore of the southwestern
peninsula. Taken April 3, 1927.

Fic. 34.—Camp among the pines on the Massif de la Selle. Heavy rains fell
daily, necessitating a shelter. Taken April 12, 1927.
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1927 35

Fic. 35.—Native cane mill at the Artibonite River near Las Cahobes,
Haiti, on the road to Hinche. The juice of the cane, expressed by heavy
wooden rollers, is boiled over open fires in the shed in the background to
make rapadou or crude sugar. Taken April 20, 1927.

Fic. 36.—Looking across the central plain of Haiti near Hinche. Annual
fires burn off the prairies so that the peculiar plants and animals are confined
to ravines cut below the general level. Taken April 23, 10927.
26 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

of the broad plain. Along our trail appeared the familiar weeds of
temperate climates, left as evidence of the agriculture of the period
of French colonization. On the second day of this journey, when
we approached the precipitous escarpment of La Selle itself, our
pack animals were unable to progress with their loads of camp and
collecting equipment over the steep, rocky trails, and we engaged
cheerful Haitian women as porters, finally reaching the summit of
the ridge at 7,500 feet above the sea. At camp a thousand feet below
the summit near the head of the Riviere Chotard, forests of pine
extended on either hand, while the ground below was covered with
bracken or a turf in which white clover and strawberries blossomed.
The higher peaks and many ravines were covered with a rain-forest
jungle in which trees and shrubs grew densely, interlaced with the
entangling, wirelike strands of a creeping bamboo. Parrots, vocif-
erous crows, and pigeons were abundant in the pinelands, while in
the jungles were found solitaires, a beautiful chestnut-sided robin
not previously known to science, and many other birds. In early
morning, it was pleasant to rest in the warm sun on the edge of the
1,500-foot precipice that marked the face of Morne La Visite, one
of the higher points above camp, while through the still air from the
jungle depths came the clear, flutelike notes of the musicien, the
appropriate Haitian name of the solitaire, mingled with the barbaric
beat of distant work drums to whose irregular cadence laborers toiled
and sang in a remote world of cultivated fields far below. As no
zoological collector had visited this mountain ridge so far as known,
many specimens taken were new to science. Smoothly scaled lizards,
found under flat stones and preserved on the spot in a bottle of
native rum purchased from the load borne on the head of a traveling
merchant woman, proved to be a new genus, and landshells gathered
at random were also new. By means of a tall pine tree felled for a
ladder, we climbed down into a great sink hole and discovered in a
sheltered crevice bones of extinct mammals that ranged the island
before the coming of Columbus.

Returning to the lowlands, I journeyed to Hinche in the level,
central plain where I was welcomed at the experiment station by Mr.
J. E. Boog-Scott, and pleasantly entertained while I explored for
strange birds. One journey was made as far as the caves at l’Atalaye,
where we viewed the excavations from which had come the remains
of a giant owl and numbers of other creatures that have become
extinct for no apparent reason and are known only from their skele-
tons in these deposits.

ice)
mY

SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1927

Fic. 37.—In the delta of the Rio Yuna near Samana Bay, Dominican
Republic. Taken May 10, 1927.

Fic. 38.—One of the many caves at San Lorenzo Bay, formerly the home of
Indians. Taken May II, 1927.
38 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Fic. 39—A country home at El Rio, Dominican Republic, on the mountain
trail to the Valley of Constanza. Taken May 29, 10927.

Fic. 40.—Adjusting pack panniers on the trail leading to Constanza. The
sturdy mules carry heavy burdens without seeming difficulty. Taken May
20, 1927.
———

SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1927 39

The last journey in Haiti was by airplane from Port au Prince
to the north over the central plain, past the ruins of the Citadelle of
Christophe perched on its high hill top, to Cap Haitien, and then over-
land by auto to Poste Charbert where were many things of interest.
On the return we crossed to Gonaives and for miles flew low over
the coastal swamps viewing the myriads of water birds disturbed by
our near passage, finally locating the flamingos of which we were in
search. As they rose in flight, while the plane banked above them,

Fic. 41—The mountain village of Constanza, Dominican Republic. The
writer occupied the white-washed structure in the foreground. The Valley
of Constanza is said to have been settled in 1750. Taken May 23, 1927.

I examined them quickly one by one to enjoy their beautiful colors
to the fullest extent, to find at the end of the flock, a little separated,
three roseate spoonbills, the clean pink of their plumage vying in
tint with that of the flamingos.

Throughout the period of work in Haiti the friendly cooperation
of General J. H. Russell, American High Commissioner, and
Dr. George F. Freeman, Directeur Général of the Service Technique
du Departement de l’Agriculture, was of the greatest assistance.

In Santo Domingo City, reached after a long journey by auto, the
Dominican officials received me with the greatest courtesy, and I was
40 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

soon again in the field on Samana Bay, where with headquarters at
Sanchez I had easy access to great swamps in the delta of Rio Yuna,
which drains the broad stretch of the Vega Real, to the waters and
islands of the bay itself, and to the steep, forested hills inland. The
caves in the limestone hills near San Lorenzo where native fisher-
men now live in as primitive fashion as the Indians preceding them
who had left great shell middens as indication of their tenancy, and
the colonies of pelicans, frigate birds, herons, and terns on the Cayos
de los Pajaros were of especial interest.

Continuing after two weeks to La Vega I bargained for pack
mules and was soon bound for the mountains of the interior. Leav-
ing the palms and banana plantations of the lowlands, we traveled
for miles through open forests of beautiful pines, climbed by nar-
row trails up the steep slopes of El Barrero, impassable during rains,
and came finally to the interior valley of Constanza, where the air
was cool and where, in winter, frosts come to kill tender vegetation.

At Constanza, the collections obtained included archeological as
well as zoological material, for this had been one of the favored
sites of the Indians, so that the country people found many pottery
fragments and stone implements in cultivating their fields. Birds
abounded, among them especially a song sparrow of the genus
Brachyspiza with its relatives in South and Central America, and
found elsewhere only in the interior mountains of this island. Dense
deciduous forests covered many slopes, alternating with pines in pleas-
ing contrast. A rare quail-dove inhabited the jungles, and trogons
nested in hollow trees. In climate and topography, the region, except
for its vegetation, was reminiscent of the mountains of Arizona and
New Mexico. The return to the heat of the lowlands was made with
regret, and work in the field was finally terminated on June 3 with
departure for New York from Puerto Plata.

NORA ents LORY COLLECTING BY
DR. HUGH M. SMITH IN SIAM

By DORIS M. COCHRAN,

Assistant Curator, Division of Reptiles and Batrachians, .
U.S. National Museum

Dr. Hugh M. Smith, formerly United States Commissioner of
Fisheries and now director of the fisheries of Siam and honorary
curator of zoology in the U. S. National Museum, has for the past
few years collected natural history specimens in Siam for the Mu-
seum. During 1927, continued shipments of valuable material reached
the Museum from Dr. Smith, especially during the early part of the
year before his return to Washington for a visit.

One of his most interesting experiences was a visit to Koh Tao or
Turtle Island, an island which is 40 miles from the mainland, further
removed from the coast than any others in the Gulf of Siam. This
island is uninhabited, seldom being visited even by the natives, and
never before explored by a scientific collector. Needless to say, it
yielded some new species, among them two distinct species of smooth-
scaled lizards called ‘ skinks,” and one beautiful little snake which is
about as large as a pencil. It is reddish-brown above with a black ring
around the neck and another near the end of the tail, which is light
blue underneath.

Dr. Smith’s own house and garden in Bangkok are excellent places
to collect amphibians and reptiles. There is a tree near his verandah
which is the home of a green bamboo-snake ; he often sees this indi-
vidual lying along a branch sunning itself and waiting for an unwary
lizard. The house itself is not free from reptile invaders, as the little
soft-bodied lizards called “ house-geckos”’ are fond of taking up
their abode wherever the moths are attracted by lights. The pond
in his garden is a favorite resort of the water-snakes, which feed on
the fish and on the amphibians which come there to breed. The
common toad of Siam, often found in his garden, is decorated on
the upper surfaces with sharp tubercles, black in the center and a
deep raspberry pink at the edges.

Many odd forms of fish occur in Siam, although the dry season
is very hard on them and they have had to adapt themselves in many

41
SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

RT ee
SASS

ttc

a 2 : :

Fic. 42.—Dr. Smith’s native assistant with a female fish-snake (Homalopsis
buccata) which was captured in the garden at Bangkok. This individual is
the largest one of its species of which we have any record; it measures 54
inches from snout to tail tip. The distention in the posterior part of the body
is caused by the unhatched young of which there were about 16 embryos.
The Siamese believe that this species is poisonous only when about to have
young, but it is harmless, of course, at all times.
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1927 43

ways to withstand the yearly desiccation. Some aestivate in damp
soil for as long a time as four months. A regular form of fishing in
Siam is to dig in a dried-up marsh to the depth of two or three feet,
where many fish called “ serpent-heads ” are to be found. These are
very good to eat. The climbing perch Anabas is the most remarkable
of all the aestivators ; it is always popular in the markets, being sold

Fic. 43.—A very effective lizard-trap invented by the Siamese natives. It
consists of a pliable splinter of bamboo about 28 inches in length in the
form of a bow with a short cylindrical section left on one end. Through
two small holes pierced in this section goes a running noose of stout cord.
The cord is fastened to a wooden sliver, the point of which rests in a de-
pression at the center of the bow. When the noose is drawn out and the
trap is ready, the bow is under considerable tension, so that it is sprung at
the least movement of the unwary lizard.

alive in baskets which are merely kept moist. This fish can climb
steep canal banks by means of its tail and the large pectoral fins. It
goes overland from one body of water to another and travels as fast
as a man walking slowly.

During the year Dr. Smith collected about 200 species of birds,
18 of them being woodpeckers. One of the most daintily colored
of all Asiatic birds is the Jambu fruit pigeon. The anterior half

4
44 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

of the head is deep crimson with a purplish brown stripe down the
middle of the throat, the upper parts including wings and tail are
brilliant green, the lower parts are white with the under tail-coverts
chestnut, and with a wash of peach-blossom pink on the chest. Mem-
bers of the crow and jay family were not numerous; one of the
crested jays of Cochin China and Siam (Cissa hypoleuca), however,
is especially handsome. It is a pale green above and greenish yellow
below ; the bill, wings and feet are red; there is a broad black stripe
from the bill extending through the eyes and out to the tip of the
long crest. In the course of a few years museum specimens are said
to fade out, the lower parts becoming whitish and the green of the
upper parts turning to blue.

The crustaceans sent by Dr. Smith have proved extremely inter-
esting, as the specimens are always excellently preserved, especially
some very fine “ squillas,” the largest ever received here.

The land shells number over 1,200 specimens and the collection con-
tains several species not heretofore represented in our Siamese ma-
terial, and likewise numerous specimens from new localities.

Dr. Smith’s collections of mammals, insects, and plants are equally
extensive, and his material in all branches is especially valuable since
it augments the early work of Dr. W. L. Abbott who secured many
specimens from the Malay Peninsula for the Museum.
Tit Cw sTACE MNS OF SOUTH AMERICA
By WALDO L. SCHMITT,

Curator, Division of Marine Invertebrates, U. S. National Museum

The conclusion of last year’s account of my study of the crustacean
fauna of South America under the Walter Rathbone Bacon Travelling
Scholarship * left me on my way by steamer to that ‘‘ Vale of Para-
dise,” Valparaiso, Chile, which I reached November 18, 1926. During
stops en route to discharge and take on cargo—stops often of some
hours duration—intertidal collections were made at Tocopilla, Antofa-
gasta, Chanaral, and Cruz Grande, Chile. Valparaiso I should call
the San Francisco of South America in almost every respect, the busi-
ness-like atmosphere, the hills, the narrow streets of the older town,
and the stimulating
can city.

oe

California’ climate, all recalling the Ameri-

Through the kindness of Senor Doniez, part owner of the spiny-
lobster fishing concession on the Island of Juan Fernandez, I had the
good fortune to be furnished passage to that historic place, the one-
time home of Alexander Selkirk, the hero of Robinson Crusoe. The
spiny-lobster or crawfish fishery of Juan Fernandez is one of the
largest of its kind and the total catch of over 87,000 individuals as
given in the Chilean fishery statistics for 1925 for the two companies
operating in those waters exceeds in number of pounds the combined
catches made in California and Florida, where related species are
taken for the market.

The extremely generous hospitality of Senor Rene Durand and
his family rendered most pleasant and profitable a sojourn of 20
delightful December days in this veritable earthly paradise. Few
places are blessed with such an ideal, healthful and fruitful climate.
Preliminary studies on some of the zoological collections | brought
back with me have disclosed a distinct species of New Zealand crab
new to this fauna, and a spider of a genus known from South Africa,
Australia, and New Zealand, and now found here, the first record
for the Western hemisphere. The zoological evidence of the Poly-
nesian and subantarctic affinities of the life of Juan Fernandez has
never been as strong as that based on botanical data, and these two
finds are therefore rendered all the more significant.

* Smithsonian Misc. Coll., Vol. 78, No. 7, p. 89, 1927.

ae
ion
SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Fic. 44.—The home of Senor René Durand, Juan Fer-
nandez, Chile, where I was so hospitably entertained
during my delightful sojourn on that romantic island.

Fie. 45.—Loading live “ spiny lobsters’ aboard schooner
for transshipment to the Valparaiso market. As many
as thirty-five hundred are carried alive to the mainland
at one time in the well of the vessel.
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1927 47

It is a pleasure to acknowledge the cordial reception accorded me
at the National Museum of Chile in Santiago by Dr. Eduardo Moore,
the Director of that Institution; Dr. Juan Briiggen of the University
of Chile; and Dr. Carlos E. Porter, the indefatigable Chilean zoolo-
gist. Dr. Porter is to be highly commended for his personal financial
support of the Revista Chilena Historia Natural, the only periodical
of its kind published in Chile.

In Santiago I visited Dr. Ernesto Maldonado, Director of the
Chilean T*orest, Fish and Game Commission, as well as the very
excellent small museum maintained by this department. In consulta-
tion with Dr. Maldonado and Dr. Augusto Opazo of the Fisheries
Service, plans were outlined by which the Smithsonian Institution
would undertake to prepare a report on the crustacea of the coasts
of Chile, based upon material to be collected and shipped to Wash-
ington for the purpose. To the American Ambassador to Chile,
Mr. Collier, are due thanks for his kindness in lending a member of
his staff to this preliminary discussion.

The Museum of the University of Concepcion, although small, is
growing and covers a wide range of activities. It is the best museum
of its kind that it was my pleasure to visit on the west coast of South
America. That it is an institution of great promise is due almost
entirely to the energy and enthusiasm of its Director, Dr. Carlos
Oliver Schneider.

From Taleahuano, Castro on the Island of Chiloe was reached
five days later, after short stops en route, permitting some shore col-
lecting at Lota, and. at Corral. Southward through Chonos. Archi-
pelago- and the-canals of southern Chile to the Straits of Magellan,
the ‘scenery in many respects compares favorably with that of the
Inland Passage to Alaska. This vast stretch of coast from Castro
south, over 1,000 miles in a straight line, is still a “ terra incognita,”
with little more known of its resources and scientific potentialities than
when Darwin first visited the region 84 years ago. Collections of
animals were made at Punta Arenas, Chile, before visiting the Falk-
land Islands. In Punta Arenas is a wonderful little museum main-
tained by the Salesian Brotherhood. It is a treasure house of things
and rarities Fuegian, and is well worth a visit by ethnologists interested
in this fast disappearing race of Indians.

Port Stanley, Falklands, was reached after what I considered a
rather tempestuous passage, during which the galley of the. small
schooner in which the journey was. made was flooded, the potatoes
and other vegetables washed over-board, and the motor-room hatch
48 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Fic. 46.—English Narrows, Territory of Magallanes, Chile. The scenery in
many respects is comparable to that of the Inland Passage of Alaska.

Fic. 47—Teal Inlet, East Falklands. A treeless country given over to
sheep grazing. Many interesting specimens of marine life were taken from
the holdfasts of the kelp that is dragged ashore here, as fertilizer for the
adjacent fields.

Frc. 48—Port Forster, Deception Island, South Shetlands. Part of a
fleet of eleven floating whale factories that made this harbor their rendezvous
during the 1927 whaling season. The numerous birds in the foreground
are a species of petrel, Daption capense (Linnzus), commonly called “ Cape
Pigeon,” feeding on whale offal.

SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, I9Q2

Fic. 51.—Museo Salesiano, Colegio San
small museum is particularly rich in relics
Indians.

Sy
aS
\O

Jose, Punta Arenas, Chile. This
of the rapidly vanishing Fuegian
50 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

stove in—all this in the course of what the Captain called fairly good
weather! The Falklands are well-known in scientific annals chiefly
through the visitations of Darwin and of the “ Challenger,” and
through the collections of Mr. Rupert Vallentin. Most helpful assist-
ance was extended me during more than a month’s stay (February to
April, 1927) on East Falkland by the Governor, the Colonial officials,
and all the private citizens with whom | came in contact. The interest
of the school boys of Stanley caused them to bring in a number of
specimens which might otherwise not have been obtained ; and a briet
talk to a class of pupils at Teal Inlet resulted in establishing a new
record of the occurrence of one of the rarer shrimps (Campylonotus
vagans Bate), heretofore known from the Straits of Magellan, Cape
Horn and South Georgia, taken by Miss Eileen Felton from the
roots of kelp hauled from water about two fathoms in depth for the
purpose of fertilizing the fields.

Taking advantage of an opportunity offered while in the Falklands,
a trip was made via the once-yearly mail boat to Deception Island of
the South Shetlands, the headquarters of the whaling industry of
that region. On the way, several tow-net hauls yielded a number of
organisms new to the National Museum collections.

In the course of my return journey to the States, beginning April 28
in the Falkland Islands, collections were made at several ports in
Argentine Patagonia: Rio Gallegos, Santa Cruz, San Julian, Deseada,
Comodoro Rivadavia, and Puerto Madryn. At Buenos Aires,
through the continuing kindness of Dr. Doello-Jurado, Director of
the Argentine National Museum, a loan of further study collections
of crustacea was obtained. At Sao Paulo, Brazil, the Museo Paulista,
from which we have had most helpful cooperation for a great many
years, was revisited during the two days that the northward bound
steamer was taking its cargo of coffee on board at Santos. I arrived
in New York on June 7, reaching Washington two days later.

The most grateful acknowledgment is due to the memory of
Mrs. Virginia Purdy Bacon and her son, Walter Rathbone Bacon, in
whose honor she founded the travelling scholarship which made pos-
sible this general reconnaissance of the marine fauna of the greater
part of the coasts of South America, resulting in more than 15,000
specimens, and many valuable notes and observations. A great deal
of this material is new to the National Museum’s collections, including
many additional records of occurrence and distribution, and, as far
as the limited preliminary studies have indicated, a number of species
new to science.

NASW, Eis LOR Sd UDIES ON WTHE FLORIDA KEYS
PMNID Mista Was: S sh MON DIU S

By PAUL BARTSCH,
Curator, Division of Mollusks, U. S. National Museuin

THE CERION BREEDING EXPERIMENTS

Fifteen years ago at the invitation of Dr. Alfred G. Mayor, the
then Director of the Marine Biological Laboratory of the Carnegie
Institution, I joined his expedition to Andros Island, Bahamas. I was
to devote my attention to the general invertebrate fauna of the region.

In looking over the general field, particularly that of mollusks in
preparation for this work, I decided to let alone one group of these
creatures, namely, members of the genus Cerion, for it was a some-
what tacit understanding that people who had devoted themselves
to this group had become more or less hopelessly entangled in it, and
some were even considered as having become slightly locoed.

The old saying about a certain group of individuals stepping in
where angels fear to tread, proved again to be an established fact,
for shortly after landing at the White House on South Bight, Andros
Island, I found myself picking up what I later named Cerion
casablancae, and that was the beginning of many years of work, for
I am still at the problem and will probably continue to be for some
time to come.

A little before going to the Bahamas, I had worked over the col-
lection made by Owen Bryant on these islands, which was described
by Dr. Dall.” That bit of work enabled me to understand why it
took a man of Dr. Dall’s standing to have the courage to describe
new species of Cerions then. At that time it was the generally as-
sumed belief that Cerions were a most plastic group, readily changing
under the influence of changes in environment. In a general way we
believed that a dry year might affect the food supply and activity
and growth of individuals, and young born under such conditions
would probably show the effect by having smaller shells or slightly
different sculpture, or other characteristics that might differentiate
them from individuals born under more propitious circumstances.
It is a fact that at the beginning of our studies, very little was known
about Cerions except descriptions of shells and that ey usually
occurred in large numbers wherever found. a

een Mise. Coll., Vol. 47, Pt. 4, Publ. No. 1566, 1905.
51
SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Sat
bo

Fic. 52.—Cerion casablancae as seen on Loggerhead Key where they have
become abundantly established. Their ancestors came from Andros Island,
Bahamas.
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1927

on
WwW

Fic. 53.—Some of the cages used in the early experiments of Cerion breeding.

Fic. 54.—Some of the little islands now used for Cerion breeding. These
are separated by small trenches containing water.
4 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

on

My gathering of some 8,000 specimens in a space the size of an
ordinary room finally caused me to cast caution aside and to take a
large series of two races of these creatures with me to the Florida
Keys, and there to subject them to all possible conditions of environ-
ment and to watch for results. We marked the Bahama specimens
by putting two fine, closely spaced file scratches on the shell of each
individual, and planted them in colonies of 500 each on Florida Keys,
beginning with the Ragged Keys a little south of Miami and con-
tinuing from there south into the Gulf to the Dry Tortugas. It was
somewhat of a surprise when we visited these colonies the next year
to find that no adult offsprings were present. The same surprise
was met the following year, and it was not until the third year that
we found Florida grown individuals that had attained a mature stage.
So one chapter was added to the life history of Cerions, that it took
three years for Bahama Cerions to mature, not a single season as
had previously been assumed. To this I may add that we have also
found that Cerions from Curacao and the Greater Antilles require
an additional year to attain their full growth.

Succeeding generations have been kept in isolated colonies, and
in that way we have been able to determine the part played by
changes of environment. Of course we expected that we would get
a broad expression of changes, for we had placed our colonies under
all possible conditions of habitat which we believed would affect their
food supply as well. At that time we believed that Cerions fed upon
the plants upon which they climb, another error that our observa-
tions have rectified, for we now know that they dine largely, if not
wholly, upon the fungal mycelia, minute plants and probably animals
living immediately below the surface of the ground.

In our first experiments two species of Cerions were colonized on
the Florida Keys, namely, Cerion casablancae and Cerion viaregis,
the first coming from the south side of South Bight, and the second
from the north side of South Bight at its eastern end. The first series
of Florida grown offsprings secured showed no measurable charac-
ters differing from those found among specimens from the parent
stock from the Bahamas. The second generation proved equally
unresponsive, and it is this generation which is usually considered
the critical one by naturalists, and here we had looked for possible
expressions of changes due to the changed environment, for in this
generation both the germplasm and somaplasm had a chance to adjust
to the new environmental conditions. bd

These experiments therefore proved that Cerions were not as un-
stable in characters as some had held, but rather the contrary. Since
then, other species have been added, namely, Cerion uva from

ee
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1927 55

Curacao, Cerion crassilabre from Porto Rico, of which we have
also had two generations of Florida grown offsprings. While these
took four years for development, they told the same story presented
by the Bahama Cerions, namely, that they did not respond to changes
in environment in these two generations. A number of other forms
have since been added and are being subjected to the same critical
LESES:

On the Newfound Harbor Key in the Florida Key chain, we mixed a
colony of Cerion viaregis with native Florida Cerion incanum, and
great was our surprise to find three years later a hybrid between
these two species. This was the more startling because the Florida
group is not represented in the Bahama Islands, and its ancestors
are traceable on the Florida Keys back to Oligocene times. The
cross therefore was one of very distantly related things, and the
specimens secured of the first generation of this cross were true
hybrids showing intermediate characters between the two in about
equal proportion to the two ancestors, and very uniform in appear-
ance. The second generation of this hybrid group, however, was a
surprise, for now an endless number of mutations appeared, cover-
ing almost everything in the field of Cerions except spiral sculpture.
There is a tremendous difference in size, general shape, sculpture,
and coloration in the various individuals.

This finding reminds one very much of De Vries’ Oenothera prob-
lem, the basis of his mutation theory, due to a similar hybridization
cause, and also that presented by certain of the more recent experi-
ments on insects, and caused us to attempt the crossing of individual
pairs of Cerions instead of the mass reaction as featured by the New-
found Key colony. For this purpose, cages were employed at first.
The fine meshed screen of these cages, however, intercepted the
formation of dew within the cages, which in turn apparently reacted
on the food supply as well as the moisture supply of the Cerions, and
resulted in killing them. The making of islands was then resorted
to, and we have at the present time a series of small islands en-
closed by trenches which are kept filled with water and serve as a
barrier across which our mollusks will not pass. On these islands as
well as in cut down cages—mere board enclosures with a strip of
monel metal wire bent inward, tacked to the upper free edge of the
boards, which leaves the central portion of the cage exposed to the
normal atmospheric conditions—pairs of Cerions have been planted
in the hope of obtaining the desired individual cross. These studies
are going on at the present time. Meantime we have dissected too
of the hybrids from the Newfound Harbor colony, and found most
50 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Fic. 55.—A sandy stretch with scattered Gorgonians at the edge of the reef.

f=)

Fic. 56.—The edge of the reef with a school of yellow-tails passing in
review.

An isle in the massive reef with broken coral fragments, sand, and
the associated fish fauna.

SusB-SEA PHOTOGRAPHS TAKEN WITH THE UNDER-SEA CAMERA.

Gs 57:

SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1927 57

interesting variations in the anatomy of these creatures produced by
hybridization.

A series of specimens of Cerion viaregis Bartsch and Cerion
incanum Binney were sent to Professor Charles Jeffreys, Harvard
University, Cambridge, Massachusetts, for Chromosome studies. To
these will shortly be added a series of the hybrids of these two species
produced in the Newfound Harbor Key colony, for the same purpose.

Dr. Carlos de la Torre, of Havana, called my attention to a wild
native hybrid of Cerion tridentatum and Cerion paracuta which oc-
curs on the north coast of Cuba at Playa de Muerto a little west of
Bahia de Jaruco. Under the guidance of Sr. Guillermo Aguayo, |
visited the place and made a large gathering of specimens of both
parents and hybrids. A series of these are now being dissected by
students of mine at George Washington University, and specimens
have also been sent to Professor Jeffreys for Chromosome study.
The general picture presented by this native hybrid colony is similar
to that which we produced by crossing Cerion viaregis and Cerion
incanum on Newfound Harbor Key, Florida.

UNDERSEA ECOLOGY

The Tortugas region of the Florida Keys was long known as pre-
senting one of the richest faunal assemblages on the Atlantic coast.
For reasons not as yet entirely solved, but probably involving a num-
ber of factors, this fauna became materially reduced, and even at
the present time, from a molluscan standpoint, is exceedingly poor.

During our Philippine cruise in 1907 to 1910, I became very much
interested in the possibility of taking undersea pictures to show the
ecologic conditions under which organisms exist, and during the 1912
cruise to the Bahamas I took a series of photographs through a
truncate cone water glass from the surface. Later the development
of the diving hood presented new factors, because by means of this
apparatus one is able to spend as much time as one chooses undersea
without great discomfort, and enjoy undersea rambles which give
one an entirely new concept of the adjustments of creatures to the
undersea environment. A view through a glass bottomed boat or
a water glass does not reveal the subsea atmosphere as it actually
exists, and you do not become conscious of this until you are actu-
ally undersea and looking in a horizontal direction, for then you at
once become aware of the significance of the silvery sides of the
pelagic fishes which correspond beautifully with the general tone
of the background.

Hurricanes destroyed the major portion of the Staghorn coral
reefs since our early visits to the Tortugas group, and these are now
© SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

plant-like organisms are Gorgonians, colonial Coelenterate
animals; the fish are chiefly gray snappers.

Itc. 60.—A massive coral head about which a school of fish is playing.
Sus-SEA PHOTOGRAPHS TAKEN WITH THE UNDER-SEA CAMERA.
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1927 59

rapidly coming back. A series of undersea photographs taken in dif-
ferent years in the same place show the changes which occur in the
region from year to year, and over a number of years, produces a
very interesting record as to what really takes place. Not only that,
but with the aid of the undersea camera, it has been possible to
show the associations of different types of animals in the different
regions. These faunal associations are exceedingly definite and in-
teresting not only to the student of living organisms but also to the
student of fossil creatures, for you may have the reef building corals
in one place with all the fish, mollusks, echinoderms, gorgonians,
worms, etc., associated therewith, and not more than 50 feet away
you may have a grass flat with an entirely different assemblage of
creatures always found there and peculiar to such a place. If you
were to have these creatures fossilized, and you had two exposures,
one yielding the grass flat fauna and the other the reef fauna, you
might be hard put to understand that these things were really syn-
chronous elements. In order to have a definite record of the changes
and also faunal associations, | have taken undersea pictures of these
things, as time permitted, and likewise a series of undersea moving
pictures, which show the animals in action. During 1927 I added
2,900 feet of moving picture film and 144 O Graphic films.

WEST INDIAN LAND SHELL STUDIES

The late Mr. John B. Henderson, formerly a member of the Smith-
sonian Board of Regents, had intended to devote the major portion
of his scientific efforts to a study of the West Indian land shell prob-
lem. With that end in view, a number of expeditions were made by
him and the writer, and various other friends, particularly Dr. Carlos
de la Torre, of Havana, to many places in the Greater Antilles. These
expeditions, as well as old collections purchased by Mr. Henderson
and the material secured from collectors more recently has given
to the U. S. National Museum probably a larger series of West
Indian material than is contained in all the other museums of the
world together. Thanks to financial aid rendered by Dr. Charles T.
Simpson, of Little River, Florida, it has been possible to obtain
necessary assistance to push this work on the West Indian land
shell problem more rapidly than would otherwise have been possible,
and this has resulted in the practical completion of a monograph on
the large family of land shells known as the Annulariidae.

In order to make this monograph as complete as possible, the
writer in September visited Dr. Carlos de la Torre at Havana, Cuba,
to examine his rich private collection, which embraces by far the
most magnificent assemblage of Cuban land mollusks in existence.

5
60 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Fic. 61.—A group of brown Pelicans and Boobys on Bird Key, Tortugas,
Florida, on the old foundation of the house which once upon a time stood
well within the island, but now its at sea.

Fic. 62—A group of Turnstones on the beach of Garden Key, Tortugas,
Florida.
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1927 61

It is the product of a lifetime of collecting by a veteran naturalist
assisted by a corps of associates, students, and loving friends. The
month spent in reviewing the land shells of this family in his collec-
tion resulted not only in the material expansion of our systematic
knowledge of the group, but also in the discovery of almost 200
unnamed forms. It likewise revealed that there still remained a
number of regions in that large island which have been untouched
and which will yield a rich harvest to the collector. The granting of
the Walter Rathbone Bacon Travelling Scholarship by the Smith-
sonian Institution to the writer will make it possible to explore these
regions before the manuscript on this family is sent to press. During
our study at Havana the collections of the Academy of Sciences,
Colegio de la Salle, and Colegio de los Escolapios were also ex-
amined, and interesting information gleaned therefrom.

The study of the West Indian land mollusks soon revealed that
while Jamaica already possesses some 600 named forms of land
shells, largely described by Professor C. B. Adams of Amherst Col-
lege, most of these specimens were without definite locality data, and
for that reason it was deemed desirable to have some one finetooth
comb this island in order that we might be able, by comparing Adams’
material with these new collections, to fix type localities for these
older species. This would likewise enable us to determine the range
of distribution of Jamaican forms. With this end in view, Mr. C. R.
Orcutt was prevailed upon to visit the Island, and he has now spent
a little more than a year in the pursuit of mollusks and has sent
thousands of specimens to the National Museum which will help to
clear up the problems mentioned above.

For the same reason Mr. Walter J. Eyerdam spent several months
in collecting land shells in unexplored portions of Haiti, which will
also assist in elucidating problems in zoogeographic distribution in
that Island.

Here, too, should be mentioned the contribution made in this direc-
tion by Dr. Alexander Wetmore’s expedition to the same island,
which added a number of novelties.

These studies of West Indian land shells are exceedingly fascinat-
ing and interesting, for they throw considerable light upon the deriva-
tion and distribution of the West Indian faunas.

BIRD STUDIES ON THE FLORIDA KEYS

In 1927, as during the past 15 years, I kept records of the birds
seen during my visit to the Florida Keys. This has resulted in the
accumulation of a large amount of information upon the migration of
62 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

birds and the breeding habits of resident species, and has likewise
furnished some interesting data on the adjustment of birds to changes
of conditions. Bird Key, a small island of the Tortugas group, which
was some 400 by 200 feet when I first visited these islands, has
shrunk to a little more than a third of that size through the action
of hurricanes and other storms. Here some 30,000 Sooty and Noddy
Terns come annually to breed. Fifteen years ago the Noddies bred
exclusively in the Bay Cedars and other trees, even in the axils of
the leaves of the tall cocoanut palms. All of the trees having been
destroyed by storms, the Noddies are now breeding upon the ground
as the Sooty Terns have always done. Photographs were taken year

Fic. 63.—A Chuckwillswidow, a relative of the Whippoorwill, on
Loggerhead Key, Tortugas, Florida.

by year showing the gradual adjustment from the tree nesting habit to
brush nesting, and finally to sand nesting. It is interesting to ob-
serve such a tenacity to a nesting site, particularly so since Logger-
head Key, which is only a short distance away and across which the
Terns are constantly flying, is still heavily covered with Bay Cedars
but has not been chosen as a new nesting site by the colony.

This vear yielded one addition to the birds previously recorded *
for the Tortugas group—the Nonpareil, Passerina ciris, seen and
photographed on Garden Key. We also secured a series of photo-
eraphs from a blind of the following birds: Least Sandpiper, Semi-
palmated Sandpiper, Sanderling, Willet, Spotted Sandpiper, Semi-
palmated Plover, and Turnstone. A report upon the 15 years of
bird observations upon the Florida Keys is in preparation.

* A summary of the records was published in the Smithsonian Report for 1917,

pp. 497-500.
TAP ONATURAL HISTORY OF THE NORTH SHORE OF
LEIGUER ORS LAWRENCE
By PAUL BARTSCH,
Curator, Division of Mollusks, U. S. National Muscium

At the invitation of Mr. Copley Amory, of Washington, D. C., a
collecting expedition to Mr. Amory’s estate on Matamek River on
the north shore of the Gulf of St. Lawrence was sent out in the sum-
mer of 1927 by the U. S. National Museum. The party consisted of
Mr. and Mrs. Paul Bowman, of George Washington University, and
the writer. It was Mrs. Bowman’s purpose, under the writer’s direc-
tion, to gather as much as possible of the local marine invertebrate
faunas, particularly mollusks. With these specimens was to be kept
an accurate record of the environmental conditions under which these
organisms exist, including depth, character of bottom, bottom tempera-
ture, and salinity. Samples of bottom and water were to be taken
also at every station.

Mr. Amory placed at the party’s disposal a power boat and a
spacious laboratory well equipped with all the needed outfit for
oceanographic research, and saw to it that we were well housed and
more than well fed. Not only that, but he was ever ready to give us
the benefit of his knowledge of local conditions acquired through
many years of summer residence at this place, as well as actual per-
sonal help, and this meant much, for our party consisted largely of
land lubbers, while Mr. Amory might enter a race with any seaman
in bending on a dredge or splicing a line.

A series of hauls were accordingly made along the coast. In addi-
tion to the marine dredging, careful collecting was done along the
beaches and the shallow water lagoons. The tide pools were made to
yield their creatures by the judicious use of copper sulphate at low
tide, which soon brings all animals not fixed to rocks from their
hiding, and enables the collector to scoop them up with his dipnet.
Mrs. Bowman also carefully explored the pools, lakes, and streams of
the region for fresh-water organisms, and likewise made a careful
search for land mollusks. The gathering of the latter was rather an
ingenious proceeding. The land about Matamek is formed chiefly of
rock, deficient in lime, with an acid soil condition which makes this

63
64 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Fic. 64.—Salmon fishing on Matamek River, Canada.
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1927

“yueq SH UO LOIBaI ay} FO UOTR}ISAA IsTIa}IeIVYS oY} SUIMOYS “epeuLRD “AOATY Youvpe]Y JO spider Jamo], ey T.—S9 “91

66 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

region a very poor habitat for land mollusks. These, therefore, are
very poorly represented both in number of species and individuals. It
was found, however, that they were as easily attracted to lime baits as
mammals are to salt baits. By making a series of stations through
the area, and placing a handful of lime in each, it was possible to
sufficiently concentrate these creatures to secure a representative
series from the region. In addition to these efforts, Mrs. Bowman
made careful observation on the Ecto- and FEndoparasites of all
fish caught. She likewise made a careful analysis of the stomach
contents of these animals.

Mr. Bowman devoted his time to a consideration of the plants of
the region, covering everything from marine and fresh-water algae to
the flowering plants. The latter presented an exceedingly interesting
study. The short growing season in this northern latitude produced
a condensation which is simply marvellous, each day presenting new
assemblages, while the old passed out with equal rapidity.

We were there early enough to watch the trees break into leaf and
bloom, and by the time the party left, September 2, many of the trees
had reached their autumn tint and were shedding their leaves. Mr.
Bowman made the interesting observation that, upon their arrival,
the sea on the north shore was covered with floating grains of conifer
pollen. This was before the conifers on the north shore had sprung
into bloom, and he believes that this pollen was carried all the way
from the south shore of the Gulf. The comparative seasonal develop-
ment of those two regions would make an interesting study.

Mr. Bowman also made a careful investigation of the peat bogs
and found an extended hochmoor which he says is still in an early
stage of development, consisting of about seven feet of soupy sphag-
num resting on a sand bottom. The oldest and most interesting de-
posit found was covered with a spruce forest and consists of about
11 feet of dark peat placed upon a bottom of gray sand and clay.
Serial cores of these peat bogs were taken and the samples shipped
to Washington for microscopic study. In these land explorations for
plants, Mr. Amory generously provided an Indian guide whose experi-
ence and knowledge of the place were of inestimable value.

The writer returned after a short stay, and Mr. and Mrs. Bowman
remained until September 2. A large amount of material was collected,
including both animals and plants, a report on which was in prepara-
tion at the close of 1927.
(iE Pies OF Tk WESTERN MOUNTAINS

By J. M. ALDRICH,
Associate Curator, Division of Insects, U. S. National Museuin

Many mountainous regions of the western United States have never
been visited by an entomologist interested chiefly in flies, and other
such regions are poorly represented in the extensive collections of
flies in the U. S. National Museum. For these reasons I undertook
in the summer of 1927 to visit a number of localities of special interest
in the West.

The vicinity of Wells, Nevada, was the most important of these.
Here there are large mountains, the East Humboldt Range, carrying
much snow in early summer and giving rise to several important
streams. There is also some seepage from the range which produces
marshes a few miles from the base in the high plateau adjacent, which
has an altitude of a little more than 5,000 feet. In one of these marshes
I had collected for an hour as I stopped between trains in 1911, with
such surprising results (20 or more new species) that I had always
intended to visit the place again. This I was enabled to do last summer,
spending six days at Wells.

Next in importance was the Yellowstone National Park, where the
forested and well-watered plateau of about 7,500 feet altitude seemed
an ideal collecting region, but had been visited hardly at all by col-
lectors of flies for the National Museum. My visit in August was a
trifle late for the best weather, but the flies were more numerous
than in any other place in which I had ever collected. Six days here
gave excellent results.

Lake Tahoe, California, is a large and beautiful lake at 6,200 feet
altitude, among the high Sierras. Moist meadows around the south end
of the lake provided good collecting, and three days were spent here ;
I then moved down the east side of the Sierras past Mono Lake,
where the dryness of the season gave no promise of success in col-
lecting, and proceeded up Leevining Canyon to a camping place near
its head, just above Ellery Lake. The altitude of the camp was about
9,500 feet, with large banks of snow only a few yards from the tent.
Insects were naturally much less numerous in such a cold place, but
those captured were of especial interest because of the great altitude.

67
68 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION :

i
Fic. 66.—In camp on South Fork of Platte River, Colorado.

ng

Fic. 68.—Camp at Ellery Lake, California, near Tioga Pass, July 4.
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1927 69

Fic. 69.—-Crossing Tioga Pass in the Sierras, July 4.

Fic. 70—Highway along ocean beach, north of Santa Cruz, California.
70 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Fic. 71.—Firehole River, Yellowstone Park, above Old Faithful.

Fic. 72.—Sylvan Lake, Yellowstone Park.
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1927 71

The higher portion of the Rocky Mountains in Colorado are still
yielding many new species of flies, though numerous collectors have
been there. I had hoped to make a stop at Tennessee Pass, at 10,430
feet altitude, where I had collected twice before, but my plans necessi-
tated a rather early start from Washington and the season was still too
early at the Pass, with freezing temperatures every night and cold
rains by day. However, I stopped on the South Fork of the Platte
River west of Pike’s Peak at about 8,500 feet altitude and found good
collecting ; my camp here was a very satisfactory one.

Fic. 73—On Ten Sleep Creek, Big Horn Mountains, Wyoming.

The Black Hills of South Dakota are important in the distribution
of the mountain forms of life, since they represent the easternmost
extension of the Rocky Mountain region. In 1892 I had collected
there for two weeks, the results being now incorporated in the National
Museum. Since the Hills are at some distance from all the transconti-
nental railroads, few entomologists have stopped there, and we possess
almost no flies from the region except those obtained on my former
visit. I had planned to make a stop there on this trip, but the season
was too late by the time I had come that far back. It was therefore
deemed expedient to visit the Hills on another trip, in the earlier part
of the summer.

These were the chief localities included in the plan of the trip, but
I had opportunities to collect in the forested foothills of North Idaho,
72 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

including the vicinity of Lake Waha and Craig’s Mountain, south of
Lewiston ; Mount Moscow, near the town of Moscow, the type locality
of many species described within the past 20 years; Gold Hill, and
Yale, northeast and east of Potlatch.

In order to visit so many scattered places, the trip was made by
automobile. My wife accompanied me, and we camped most of the
way. Our route was to Colorado Springs, across the Rockies by
Tennessee Pass, through Salt Lake City to Wells; thence to Reno,
crossing the Sierras at Tioga Pass, just above our camp at Ellery
Lake; thence across the San Joaquin Valley to Monterey and north
to San Francisco; up the Sacramento Valley and through Western
Oregon to Portland, and through the Inland Empire to Spokane ;
thence by Missoula, Butte and Three Forks to the Yellowstone Park ;
crossing the Big Horn Mountains in Wyoming, and home across
South Dakota, Southern Minnesota, etc. The distance traveled was
over 9,000 miles, and the trip was made without mishap. The accom-
panying illustrations show a few of the collecting places and some-
thing of the traveling and camping conditions.

Several thousand flies were brought back ; it will require more time
to study the material sufficiently to tell how many species new to
science were obtained, but there is no reason to doubt that the results
were of substantial value.
BOQANICAL EXPLORATION IN EASTERN COLOMBIA
BY PLES WORTH BE LTP.

Assistant Curator, Division of Plants, U. S. National Mfuseum

Little is known of the plant life of the Eastern Cordillera of Colom-
bia north of the Bogota region. No expeditions from the United
States had previously visited the area, and the collections of the few
European botanists to penetrate this not easily accessible region—Lin-
den, Kalbreyer, Karsten, Funck and Schlim—consist mainly of the
more showy plants. Moreover, very few of these specimens have found
their way into American herbaria, so in continuation of the botanical
exploration of northern South America, begun in 1917 jointly by the
New York Botanical Garden, the Gray Herbarium of Harvard Uni-
versity, and the National Museum, Mr. Albert C. Smith, collaborator
in the Division of Plants, and I spent the winter of 1926-1927 in
Colombia, mainly in the eastern mountainous region. In the present
enterprise cooperation was extended also by the Arnold Arboretum.

In arranging for the trip and in carrying out our plans valuable
assistance was received from the Colombian Minister to the United
States, the Pan American Union, the United Fruit Company, the
governors of the various departments visited, and the representatives
of several American commercial houses in Colombia.

We arrived at Cartagena October 29, 1926, and spent several days
collecting at La Popa and Boca Grande and on Manga and Tierra-
bomba Islands, all of which are botanically historic localities in the
vicinity of the port. Turbaco, a village at the crest of the low hills
east of Cartagena, was our next base. Here Humboldt and Bonpland
spent several days before ascending the Magdalena River on their
way to Quito, and it is the type locality for several species. Though a
considerable part of the land is at present under cultivation, dense
woods still remain to the westward and nearly impenetrable thickets
cover considerable areas. Particularly interesting were the mud
volcanoes, about nine miles from Turbaco, where we made fairly large
collections.

A three days’ trip up the Magdalena River next brought us to
Puerto Wilches, the terminus of a railroad which eventually will
reach into the heart of the Eastern Cordillera. Collections were made

73
74. SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

SS STS RUSBY - PENNELL, 19/7.
PERESOOR SSG PENNELL-KILLIP, /922.

t++444+ A/LLIP-SMUTH, 1926-27 Bae
SANTA ARG
BENS II

BARRANOUILLA GA

CARTAGENA @xqrs,
NOx THB

‘S) =

SoS

e*" =)
BUCARAIMANGA i:

pmMeTA

2
Sun LAV/CENCIO

oe “4 & PURA CE

oe -
POPAYAN ved

Fic. 74.—Routes of the three expeditions to Colombia in which the
Smithsonian Institution has participated.
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1927 vias

Fic. 75.—Old walls of Cartagena.

ee ree:
See MT A

hae

Fic. 76.—Village on Tierrabomba Island, Cartagena Bay.

Fic. 77,—Mud volcanoes near Turbaco.
76 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

in the dense tropical jungle surrounding the town and extending east-
ward to the base of the mountains.

On December 3 we left the railroad at Provincia, the eastern end
of the portion which is open for traffic, and from then on, until we
emerged from the mountains on the far eastern side near Cucuta,
our only means of transportation was by mule.

Once in the mountains, headquarters were established at the delight-
ful city of Bucaramanga, and this served as our main base for two
and a half months. Bucaramanga is one of several thriving Colom-
bian cities linked to the outside world only by mule trails and air-
plane. Its streets, however, are filled with autos and autobuses and
its shops are well stocked with goods from this country and Europe.
The capital of a department in which coffee is abundantly grown and
which leads in the production of oil, it is at present experiencing a
high degree of prosperity. The Governor and other officials of the
Department of Santander, as well as private citizens, extended every
courtesy to us, and much of our success in collecting about 17,000
specimens in this area was due to this highly appreciated cooperation.

Situated on a plateau which drops abruptly to deep valleys on three
sides, the immediate vicinity of Bucaramanga was not especially inter-
esting botanically ; but areas to the south, east, and north, distant two
to four days by mule travel, were exceedingly rich. The Mesa de los
Santos, a broad plateau about 1,500 meters above sea level, was first
visited. Although there was no range of altitude here, the presence
of dense woods, sandy fields, marshes, and rocky cliffs, all within a
few miles of our inn, resulted in a wide diversity of plant life.

Our second trip from Bucaramanga took us eastward to the isolated
region about Las Vegas. From our base established here at 2,600
meters, in the midst of a rich vegetation, a two days’ trip was made
to the Paramo de las Vegas, the highest point of which lies at 3,800
meters elevation. Among the more interesting plants collected along
this trail were the Colombian May-flower, with showy magenta
flowers, a scarlet-flowered loranthus, related to our mistletoe, a species
of adder’s-tongue fern, several rare passion flowers, the large-fruited
blackberry, and a species of Espeletia. This last group of curious
woolly plants, locally known as frailejones, is characteristic of the
higher mountain plateaus.

The month of January and the first part of February were spent
about Surata, Charta, and California, to the north of Bucaramanga,
an area thought to be well worth visiting because of the rich collections
made there by Linden and by Funck and Schlim. From California,
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1927

Yi
SS

Fic. 79—The Expedition’s headquarters on the Mesa de los Santos, along
the main road from Bucaramanga to Bogota.

Fic. 80.—View from edge of Mesa de los Santos toward the Las Vegas
mountains,
78 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Fic. 81.—Mountains near the Colombian-Venezuelan border; the village of
Labateca at the right.

Fic. 82—Smithsonian Expedition crossing the Paramo of Santurban, at an
altitude of 4,500 meters.

Fic. 83.—Loading bananas at the United Fruit Company dock, Santa Marta.
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1927 79

Fic. 84.—Drying plants over oil-burners in the patio of a school,
Bucaramanga.

‘ # ss
ei ‘
" OF
BS ee aed as
» Aes 7 . @
" id . '

ao

Fic. 85—Morning-glories cover the shrubs at the edge of the mud
volcanoes, Turbaco.

Fic. 86.—A typical paramo scene, showing one of the larger frailejones.
8o SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Mr. Smith made a week’s trip to the paramos of Vetas, Santurban,
Mogotocoro, Rico, and Frailejonale, and I spent the following week
in the vicinity of La Baja, visiting the paramos of Las Puentes,
Las Coloradas, and Romeral.

On February 18 we started on our long journey to Pamplona over
the vast paramo of Santurban, the bleak region that so effectively
cuts off the northeastern part of Colombia from the rest of the country.
In the immediate neighborhood of this city nearly all the land had
been cleared, so we moved on at once to Toledo, due east and close to
the Venezuelan border. Here, at the headwaters of the Orinoco
system, a flora vastly different from that to the westward was found.

Having completed our work in the Eastern Cordillera we proceeded
back to the coast as directly as possible, by way of Cucuta, Maracaibo,
Curacao, and Puerto Colombia, making small collections at each of
these places.

In the course of the present exploration approximately 7,200 col-
lecting numbers were obtained, represented by nearly 30,000 speci-
mens. In this collection are about 800 numbers of ferns, 300 of
orchids, over 200 of the mimosa and cassia families, approximately
75 morning-glories and 100 passion flowers, and nearly 700 Com-
positae ; about a third of the collection consists of woody plants. Sets
have been distributed to the cooperating institutions and the work of
identification has been begun.

The routes of the three expeditions which have gone into Colombia
in connection with the present exploration work are shown on the
accompanying map (p. 74). Although 60,000 specimens in all have
been collected, there are, it will be noted, several wholly untouched
areas, such as the Amazon and Orinoco basins in the southeastern
part, the northwest section adjacent to Panama, and the Pasto region,
near the Ecuador border. Additional work should be done also in the
Santa Marta Mountains and among the isolated peaks at the northern
end of the Western Cordillera.
A OPARCH HOR RUBBER IN: TEXAS
Bye. Ne ROSE,

Associate Curator, Division of Plants, U. S. National Museum

To learn whether any of the native plants of central and southern
Texas might be of value as a source of rubber, I visited that region
in October, 1927, under the auspices of Mr. Thomas A. Edison.
Inasmuch as the United States Department of Agriculture is also
greatly interested in possible new sources of rubber, Mr. Paul G.
Russell was detailed by that Department to accompany me.

We left Washington October 5 and returned November 11. A small
automobile was used in the work, enabling us to cover a much wider
territory than would otherwise have been possible. We began work
at Austin, Texas, making the University of Texas our headquarters,
from which, under the direction of Prof. B. C. Tharp and his col-
leagues, we thoroughly explored that region. One day was spent in
studying the interesting flora of the Edwards Plateau, and on another
day we visited the new site of the University’s botanical garden,
which includes 500 acres lying on both sides of the Colorado River.
This area is very suitable for a botanical garden, for the land is exceed-
ingly diverse, consisting of high river bluffs, tree-covered knolls, deep
canyons, and wooded flats. It supports a rich native flora and, when
improved with good roads, will be one of the most interesting localities
in all central Texas.

After a week at Austin we motored south through New Braunfels,
the site of an old German colony and the home of two remarkable
botanical collectors, Dr. F. Roemer and Dr. F. Lindheimer. The latter
made very large collections in this region and sent the specimens to
his countryman, George Engelmann, then a physician in St. Louis
and an enthusiastic student of plants. Later, Engelmann published in
the Boston Journal of Natural History an important paper entitled,
“ Plantae Lindheimerianae,” based on Lindheimer’s collections and
containing descriptions of many new and rare plants. A common
cactus, Opuntia lindheimeri, perhaps the commonest species of this
family in the United States, is abundant about New Braunfels and
was traced by us as far south as Brownsville.

81
82 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Fic. 87.—Ebenopsis flexicaulis: a shade tree in Brownsville, Texas; native of
southern Texas and northern Mexico.

Fic. 88.—Leucaena pulverulenta: a shade tree in Brownsville, Texas;
common in the surrounding forests.
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1927 83

ll

Fic. 89.—Said to be the home of F. Lindheimer, near New Braunfels, Texas.

Fic. 90.—I/nodes texensis: the Sabal palm of the Rio Grande Valley below
Brownsville, Texas.
84 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

We then motored to San Antonio, where we visited the beautiful
rock garden of Dr. and Mrs. D. T. Atkinson, to which the Smith-
sonian Institution has contributed several shipments of living plants.
From San Antonio we went down the Rio Grande Valley, passing
through extensive orange groves. Brownsville is a very old town,
and is of considerable botanical interest, many of the street shade
trees being native to the region. One of these is the Sabal palm,
Inodes texensis, resembling very much the Washington palm, which
has been introduced into that part of Texas. I was especially interested
also in other trees belonging to the Mimosa family, a group which
I am now studying. One of these is a species of Leucaena, usually
passing as L. pulverulenta, which has finely cut leaves and heads of
small flowers. The other is a species of Ebenopsis, a new genus which
at the time of our visit had not yet been published. This tree has very
hard wood, which takes a beautiful polish and is known as Mexican
ebony.

The Sabal palm was doubtless once common in the Lower Rio
Grande Valley, and is still represented by many scattered trees and
several fine groves. It occupies very fertile parts of the valley and is
therefore gradually being eliminated. An effort should be made to
have at least one of the groves reserved as a state park or monument.
Not only are the palms themselves unique, but the undergrowth about
them contains many interesting and rare plants. The appearance of
the groves is shown in the accompanying photographs.

With Brownsville as headquarters the surrounding territory for a
distance of about 100 miles in all directions was surveyed in an attempt
to discover rubber-yielding plants. This included three trips into
adjacent Mexico southeast, south, and southwest of Matamoros. The
southern trip extended as far as San Fernando, on the Rio de Conchas.

Although many plants were examined to determine their rubber
content, our results were chiefly negative. Near Brownsville we found
a variety of the common poinsettia (Poinsettia pulcherrima) which
grows very abundantly. It produces an abundance of latex, which
gives about nine per cent crude rubber, and although previously not
regarded as very promising, yet deserves further study.

As a result of this trip a valuable series of herbarium specimens
was brought back, including many rare species and others that are
of special interest as coming from the locality whence they were
originally described.

DOE MNIC AE, TKIP tO, FORMOSA

hy IBUNIRILIONY IBVARIRIES, BYRNE Ia Ana,
Collaborator, Division of Plants, U. S. National Museum

The flora of Formosa, rich in endemic species, has been made
known for the most part through the publications of Japanese botan-
ists. In the early years of the Japanese occupation, before the
aborigines of the mountains had been brought under complete con-
trol, botanizing was carried on only with difficulty and danger. In
consequence, few duplicates were collected, and the herbaria at
Taihoku, the Formosan capital, and Tokyo are the only ones that
adequately represent the flora. American herbaria lack Formosan
plants almost entirely, except for the collections of Wilson of the
Arnold Arboretum and some grasses collected by Hitchcock. I there-
fore felt that it would be decidedly valuable to secure even the small
amount of material that could be got in a brief trip, and so made use
of the five weeks preceding the Third Pan-Pacific Science Congress
at Tokyo in a botanical trip to Formosa.

The western half of Formosa is flat, fertile, densely populated and
tame. The formerly turbulent, semi-barbarous Chinese population
has been efficiently organized by the Japanese; railroads have been
built; rice, sugar cane, banana and other cultures have been sys-
tematically developed. Consequently the chief interest of this part
of the island is in its advanced and scientific agriculture. The eastern
half is rough and wild. Head-hunting by the Malayan aborigines has
been suppressed, and the Japanese have made wonderful progress in
gaining the confidence of the natives. They have established schools,
improved living conditions, and seem to be dealing very wisely with
the tribes.

I arrived in Kilung on September 22, 1926, and went at once to
Taihoku. On board the SS. Fuso Maru I had made friends with
Professor Masakazu Sato, plant biochemist of the Taiwan Agricul-
tural College. He introduced me to Dr. Kintaro Oshima, the Head
of the College, and Director of the central agricultural experiment
station, and through the latter I met Vice-Governor Goto. Plans for
a trip in the savage districts were soon made and approved. Dr.
Oshima very kindly arranged that Mr. Kindi Yamada, Expert in

85
86 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

pe Saas

Fic. 91.—Formosan (Chinese) fishermen drawing in a seine at Suwo, on
the eastern coast of Formosa. Many of the bowlders on the shore are dense,
hard, wave-worn coral.

Fic. 92.—Many baskets of small fish and crabs came out of the net and
one big eel of diabolical looks and disposition.

Fic. 93.—A scene in the Ami village Pokpok near Kwarenko. Notice the
Formosan dog at the corner of the rice granary at the right.
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1927 87

Forestry at the Government Research Institute, Taihoku Botanical
Garden, should be released from his duties to accompany me. Thus
I was provided with an indispensable guide and friend. Mr. Yamada
spoke both Japanese and Chinese, as well as English and one of the
aboriginal languages, Paiwan. In our journeys together my lack of
understanding of Japanese etiquette must at times have been embar-
rassing to him, but his kindness and helpfulness never failed, even
under the stress of days in the cold and rain, after which plants had
to be straightened out and put in press at night.

We went by rail to Rato, on the east coast, around the northern
end of the island, and then struck inland to Taiheisan, a mountain
whose age-old forest of gigantic conifers is being forested. We fol-
lowed up the narrow-gauge gravity railroad by which the logs are
sent down. A primitive but efficient brake and a Chinese driver con-
trolled the cars, piled high with enormous logs, most of them from
the two species of Chamaecyparis, counterparts of our white cedar,
which form the bulk of the coniferous stand. The track might fol-
low a niche in a canyon-like wall, or traverse a temporary trestle, but
whenever the sound of the down-coming trains was heard there was
nothing to do but find some place to sidetrack as the cars went careen-
ing by. The empty cars were pulled back by patient plodding water-
buffaloes quaintly shod with little straw sandals like those of the
Japanese woodsmen.

On Taiheisan I saw the ancient relict conifer, Taiwania; the rare
Cunninghamia Kawakami, a counterpart of our East American Sas-
safras, S. randaiense ; the anomalous Trochodendron aralioides, a fine
tree, botanically noteworthy because it is one of the few angiosperms
whose wood contains no vessels. A characteristic shrub which we
always associate with Formosa was seen abundantly—the famous
paper plant, Tetrapanax papyriferum, a relative of our devil's club,
from the thick pith of which the pure white material is prepared upon
which the Cantonese artists paint the bright little pictures that every
globe-trotter for a hundred years has brought home.

After returning by gravity car from Taiheisan to the coast, we took
a steamer from Suwo to Kwarenko. Here we visited the Ami tribe, a
strictly coastal people who still preserve and revere the ancient canoes
by which, according to their traditions, they came to Formosa. Hat-
sune, near Kwarenko, was our point of departure for a trip on foot,
with Taiyal carriers, across the central mountain range, following up
the gorge of the slate-colored Mokka river. At the end of the first
day’s march we were served at a mountain inn with an American
INSTITUTION

SMITHSONIAN

‘eurgg ur sang 4sitnoz, ArZAD WVU
“JQ “SA9UIN4SOY ‘“S[BUIIUE “SigMOY JO Seth}
-o1d 97331, 7WYSt1q 94} JUTed ssauo}UeD 9}
yorym uodn ,, 19ded ,, ay} “‘sulzjNo AVIUGA
Aq ‘paredsid st yyd 9 zyM-aaind yoryy
34} WOIy ‘“eqoq]Y pue qniD uUesIayIey 9y4
usdMjoq ‘Yooy ‘OQ viéafiuddod xvundvsq9 I
guejd aoded uvsowi0y o4p—96 ‘OIL

“S}ETN SISuasoutsof{ si.imdXrapiuvy D
‘yyiuaqg Sl 9213 9Yf, “AyAeIs AQ UMOP
awod surei} SuoT Fy, “eqoq pare qnid
UPSIOYIET, 94} UIIMJoq UBsloyIeEy dn pro

-[!B¥1 SuIsso, oy} UO uoT}eIsS W—'S6 “OIA

‘esOwlO,, Ysnory} diaz 9y} UO puaTay pure
uoluedwiod Sta}yIM 9y}. ‘nyoyley ‘uapiey
[eoruejog ‘ayIn}Y4suy~ Yorvasay ‘A14S910,7
ul jiodxy ‘epewiex Ipulry “ayY—P6 ‘oly

(mn
oe)

SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1927

“EVN
‘dnoi3s

*BUILARY

0} yoroidde udsajsam ‘ueqeyeWeEN
ons], 24} JO usm Buno,—‘66 “OI.

38

*SoAT}EU
ey} JO suotjejuryd uleyunowW 9y} Ur uMOIs
‘pant Diiamyoog Jo sJIaqy ay} wWosaz unds
SI ueur 9Yy} AQ patties peaiy} sy, ‘auns

-jepy JO uPWOM pue UePU [edIE,—'g6 ‘DIY

pue

nyyodog }e j1ay}0I1q sIy
Sy

Wy 94} JO jJoryo

‘niarieie \— 46

go SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

dinner that would have been considered good in Washington. It
was a special treat, prepared by Mr. Nagase, who had been 18 years
in the United States, had served with Dewey at Manila, and then on
the Mayflower, where he had talked with Presidents McKinley and
Roosevelt. After dinner he called, and expressed his good will to
the country he had served so long.

We crossed the divide at Nokosan, elevation about 10,000 ft. On
the way I became more and more filled with admiration for the
plucky Japanese officers who have brought standards of living into
this wild land that do them infinite credit. They do the beautiful car-
pentry of their stations, using the trees in the forest as their raw
material; they construct the carefully graded mountain paths, often
blasted out of the face of the gorges; they build the wire suspension
bridges that carry a footway of from one to three narrow boards;
and they teach the native schools—all this in addition to their primary
duty of keeping order. One whom I met had made a good herbarium ;
another, Mr. Mitsui of Raishya, whom I met later in South Formosa,
had compiled an admirable dictionary of the Paiwan language which
would be a genuine contribution to knowledge if it could be published,
especially if it were romanized and included English as well as Japa-
nese equivalents.

The mountain flora of Nokosan included many familiar boreal
genera, which gave way, as we descended, to subtropical types, the
whole transition being seen in a day’s march. We got our botanical
collections in order at Hori, where we were entertained by the genial
Mr. Saito, Head of the Forest Experiment Station of the University
of Hokkaido. (Each Japanese university has its own Formosan
forest reserve and experiment station.) Mr. Saito is a butterfly en-
thusiast, and when he learned that we were returning to the moun-
tains to climb Niitakayama (Mt. Morrison) he decided to join us.
On the way to the top of the Japanese Empire we made very inter-
esting collections, and saw the shy and attractive Tsuo tribe, who
build little sacred houses of the skulls of the animals they kill in the
chase. Our baggage carriers on this trip were the more primitive
Bunun, the least engaging, perhaps, of the Formosan natives. We
reached the summit, at about 13,400 ft., and made good collections.

My last trip into the mountains was to the Paiwan village of
Raishya, reached from Heito, the southern terminus of the railroad.
On the way we had the interesting experience of fording a Formosan
river several times. Although shallow, the water was so swift that
its impact made it almost impossible to get one’s foot to the bottom.

gli

ATIONS, 1927

EXPLOR

SMITHSONIAN

*snj[e} 94} Siap.ic
WI0O} 9}eI1}S01d sy

jetju90 9y}

‘UOTZLAD[I JoIJF OOO'ZTI JNOGW

MOTO

“UOSIIIOTE “2 JO He

adojs snjey—

‘ZO1

“OTT

\Q DJOPIMOSIAAOUW snaagiun se jo

od

‘adAjoo9 yOUTISIpP A]]eoT}OUeS
eB aq 0} dAoid AewW YyoIyM ‘wWI0F 9}eI]SsO1d Be ul
apnz[e sWeSs 3Yy} Je S}sSIx9 Os[e JT ‘quieyT vzOUL
-pnbs Ssnsagiune YM [eoUapl Patapisuod awos
Aq St satoads siqy, ‘euredeyeyINN UO 4aaq O00'ZI
jnoqe 3e ‘eyeARPT DjOIUOSIAAOW SNAIGUNS ‘$9913
S,esowmo0,y JO anbsainjoid sow ey J,—IOI ‘O14

“osnoy
[HAYS 94} JO Vpisur ay} p41eMO} 91 S][Nys 9y} FO
sosou oy, “Woy} Aq pea]h] (1299p pue ssid ppm
Ay}soul) auies Jo speay ay} Appnyored dAsasoid
jnq ‘speoy ueuny juny Josuo] ou oym dnois
[ews
oy} jo

eB o1e ONST, out “UeqexyeueNY je Onsy
294} JO oplsuy—‘oor “Ol

asnoy [[Nys

g2 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

The friendly Paiwan exclaimed at my poor technique and came to
the rescue. Raishya is built of great slabs of slate. The houses, with
abundant carving in wood and stone, are very interesting. The people
wear head bands of flowers and are most attractive.

On the return to Taihoku we stopped at a classic botanical locality
on the west coast, Ape Hill at Takao. On this mountain of the short
and low western range many botanical specimens were collected in
the early days by Europeans, especially Henry. It has now been
greatly modified by Chinese fuel and hay cutters, by being overrun
with Lantana, and by reforestation with Acacia, but it is still an
interesting locality for the rare and local palm, Phoenix Hanceana.

After returning to Taihoku I spent a few days in the Herbarium
at the Botanical Garden identifying my collections—an especially
important matter since type material for comparison exists only in

Fic. 103.—Old shelf with human skulls beside the door of a house in
Raishya. It is only by accident that such a shelf has escaped destruction by
the police. All the great shelves exist now only in memory and old photo-
graphs.

Japan. The specimens that could not be studied here, I compared
in Tokyo at the Botanical Institute of the Imperial University. For
many courtesies at the herbaria I am indebted to Professor Bunzo
Hayata, the Nestor of Formosan botany, and to Mr. Yamamoto of
Tokyo, and to Mr. Sasaki of Taihoku. In Taihoku I enjoyed the
hospitality of the Japanese friends already named; of our energetic
and helpful Consul, Mr. De Vault, and Mrs. De Vault; of the Dutch
Vice-Consul, Mr. Nichols and his wife; and of Mr. Hosui of the
Higher School, formerly chief of the Division of Foreign Relations
of the Formosan Government.

Although only about 370 numbers of plants were collected, there
are duplicates for several American institutions. The value of the
collection is greater than the number would indicate, because many
of the species have not heretofore been represented in American or
European collections.

iab ASI -DiIsArPEARING PEORA OF SUMATRA

BY HART EY, HARRIS BARE Ei,
Collaborator, Division of Plants, U. S. National Muitsewimn

The establishment of plantations and the influx of population are
rapidly sweeping away the jungles of Sumatra. To collect as much as
possible of the fast-disappearing native flora, I spent the first half
of 1927 there under the joint auspices of the University of Michigan
and the Smithsonian Institution. Upon arriving in Asahan, Sumatra,
December 25, 1926, I was occupied for a few days in making prepara-
tions for my work and in paying my respects to the Assistant Resi-
dent and the Toenkoe Regent, who gave me letters of introduction
to other officials and to the native headmen. I was most fortunate
in being invited by an old friend, Mr. James Grantham, Director of
Plantation Research for the United States Rubber Company, to make
his home at Boenoet my headquarters for the whole of my stay. It
is a pleasure to acknowledge my indebtedness to the U. S. Rubber Co.
and its staff for their assistance; to Mr. Carel Hamel of the Ameri-
can Methodist Mission, who proved an agreeable and helpful com-
panion on several short jungle trips; to my former student, Mr.
W. E. Cake, who joined me in a rapid trip around the southern end
of Lake Toba to Taroetoeng; to Messrs. Stofkoper and Prokopo-
vitsch of Loendoet Concession, Koealoe, for their hospitality there ;
and to Dr. H. S. Yates with whom I made an interesting, though
botanically unproductive, visit to Poeloe Salah Nama, one of three
rocky islets in the Straits of Molacca northeast of Batoe Bara.

The plantation belt of the East Coast is a region of rapid develop-
ment, which had its beginning at Medan, center of the famous Deli
tobacco plantations. Other cultures, especially rubber and oil-palm,
have extended the belt southward, and now it is growing laterally
toward the highlands through plantings of tea and, locally, of irri-
gated rice. The great plantations of the U. S. Rubber Co. in Asahan
were practically the southern end of the culture area ten years ago,
but now exploitation has reached much farther and has outdis-
tanced transportation facilities.

It is regrettable that the resources of the jungle have not been
known and utilized before its destruction. Of course the chief groups

93
INSTITUTION

SMITHSONIAN

94

*perquiasse suosiod 9y} 19A0 UMOIY}
aq 99) (AXDYIand—aeMe}) = =stOfOI 9914}
jO 9011 uleju0o s[moq oY] *(Ssuepa0.r)
Sqioy patoes JO spuly 9014} JO Jonbnoq e
yum doz 94} 38 pesojo ‘auIM wyed-iesns jo
oqn} Ooqmeq e& SI puey zysit SIy Uy ‘sur
-19yjO ue aye 0} ynoqe ‘s}4aids [e4jsaoue
0} Jee 94} D10Joq sSpue}s oFF ‘elpri
“PIN O[IG JO Yosto0q 320}eq—'90I “OIY

*JOAIT YONUW ay} 3e Za] 91e sayod |yeus
10} sjaoddns padeys-A 3}ey4} OS 419q4}0 Yora
SZuisso1d Yyonw 9y} Our sajod surysnay}
Aq opeur st ‘oayy-9}1y Se uMouy ‘yyed B&
yong ‘ueyesy ‘elpereyy OCIS ye (Suepo.1)
ajsunf Adwems ysnoiy} yJeq—Sor ‘oy

*AjpBOOT 9dA} ay} Wor}
[[449q usaqp x sndapoouphyy jO UorDe2]
-[oo @ Sulki1ed sayeX “S “H “Aq ‘ueyesy
‘201eq 2901905) je sBuIzIuejoq—'PoI “DI

SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1927 95

of economic trees are known, but there are doubtless many localized
types of great interest and value that are doomed to extinction. The
expression of such fears provokes laughter in Sumatra, where the
wonderful tropical forest now seems inexhaustible. However, it will
be only a few years before a patch of virgin forest will be a rarity in
the culture area. As for the flora, it is doubtful if half of it has been
recorded, or can be recorded on the basis of the collections that have
thus far been made. Furthermore, after potentially valuable or scien-
tifically interesting plants have been exterminated, it is small conso-
lation to know that a few fragments may be preserved in our
herbaria. Since leprosy has come under control through treatment
with chaulmoogra oil, what botanist would wish to see any one of
the allies of chaulmoogra exterminated with its properties still un-
known? The type locality of one of Mr. Yates’ beautiful discoveries,
Hydnocarpus Yatesii Merrill, may be cleared any time. The known
range is not over ten miles across. It is a pity that botanical survey
work cannot be pushed more rapidly the world over. Fortunately,
two active botanists, Mr. J. A. Lorzing, in charge of the Sibolangit
Botanical Garden, and Mr. H. S. Yates, until recently botanist for
the U. S. Rubber Co., have been collecting in the East Coast region in
the intervals of their other occupations. The former has assembled a
valuable collection of living plants and has a book on the flora in
preparation. The latter’s collections, in the hands of Dr, E. D. Mer-
rill for determination, will be reported upon by Merrill and Yates.

My own season of field-work extended from January to July, and
included four not entirely distinct types of work.

1. Friendly contacts were made with the old native population at
Silo Maradja, at the edge of the U. S. Rubber Plantations. Off and
on throughout the season I stayed with these people and made col-
lecting trips with them daily, collecting all plants of economic inter-
est, as well as whatever else came to hand, and making notes on
ethnobotany. Since the jungle people and their ancient lore are dis-
appearing even faster than the jungle, this phase of my work was
important. I fitted it into my program throughout my stay, by taking
men from Silo Maradja with me to all the neighboring districts.
Inquiries made on the trail always reminded these men of interesting
things at home. An inseparable companion from Silo Maradja was
Datoe Boersok, a picturesque old pagan priest-doctor, sometimes
more picturesque than useful, whose fund of learning was always at
my disposal. Rahmat was a cheerful boy of inexhaustible industry,
who on one occasion felt so humiliated by his failure to climb a tree
INSTITUTION

SMITHSONIAN

‘apsunl paTpay Jo

“20[B904,

uluinq ysiy ay .—

‘

joopus07|

Oot “Ol

$3901}

ayy ¥

jo

‘Lor aansy ur umoys
aseq oyf[— gol “OTA

yoo} giz
‘emel(]
eB jo 23

“Tet
qnoqe a1e S901} AY, “Us0BUs0[9WITG

yeury, ‘ia8i0n eu yoy ‘Sulieajo sate
p2 24} 18 soo1} BSuvjeaoy,— Zor “91y

u

Fic. 110.—After the first burning. Ready for the second, or clean up,
burning. Loendoet, Koealoe. (Above the clouds in the distance the summit
of Dolok Soeroengan. )

Fic. 111.—Crossing the Asahan below the Sampoeran Harimo (Tiger Fall)
in a basket drawn on a single strand of rotan.

Fic. 112—Transportation on the Toba trail. A Toba man carrying cooking
pots down to Bandarpoeloe, at the edge of the culture belt. The other men
are carrying chickens to the same market. They will return with dogs, a
favorite food of the pagan mountaineers, but an abomination to the Muslim
Malays of the lowlands. Photographed above Adian Langge, Asahan.

97
98 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

that he invented an excuse to leave his work the next day, returning
triumphant with the flowers we had coveted. Oenoes, being of a
practical turn of mind, preferred collecting seeds rather than her-
barium specimens. I hope that some of his contributions to the Office
of Foreign Seed and Plant Introduction may flourish.

2. Several weeks were spent in intensive work at Loendoet, south
of the Asahan River. Several thousand acres of old jungle were
being felled, and I might profitably have spent all my time there.
Loendoet left a vivid memory of crashing jungle, the howling of
disconsolate monkeys surrounded by smoke and crackling fires that
followed the felling, the grotesque skeletons of charred trees that
remained after the first burning, the little infernos watched over by
Satanic Celestials during the second burning, when a hundred fires
kept the sky aglow all night. The burning was followed by turning
of the soil, and drainage of the swamps. Not a plant or animal re-
mained. My day’s routine was to clamber through unbelievable tan-
gles of treetops and interwoven vines, many of them fish-hooked
ratans, sometimes 20 or 30 feet above the ground. Often it rained,
or the sun was scorching, but the wreckage never lost its interest.
It was sad to see things dying that can never be replaced. My chief
regret was for a magnificent Dracaena two feet in diameter. Many
of the species were never seen in flower or fruit and must remain
unrecorded.

3. I botanized hurriedly through the back of Asahan up over the
mountains to Toba. This gave me a superficial idea of the floral
changes as one ascends to the high plateau and the mountains from
the low districts. The waterfalls of the Asahan, however insig-
nificant they might seem in a paper comparison with the giant
Niagara, are nevertheless sublime. No sight surpasses the plunge of
the Asahan into a perfect bowl at the Sampoeran Harimo. This fall
is at the head of the idyllic horseshoe valley of Tangga. Near the
foot of the Tiger Fall I crossed the boiling Asahan on a single strand
of ratan, ignominiously pulled in a basket, whereas the natives go
hand over hand with the agility of monkeys. Then up the face of
the valley, where the path becomes a series of ladders up the cliffs,
and over the lalang plains of the ancient terrace to Toba. To stand
at the mountain rim of Toba and look down at the great lake, the
mysterious, almost-island Samosir, the emerald-green or golden rice
terraces, the villages in their groves of trees and bamboo—nothing
could be more entrancing. And then the mountains—each one
presenting untouched botanical opportunities. The sacred Dolok

ey
OV

SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1927

"UeBUI0II0G
Yo]od JO jurums oy} 0} pusose Avi auO YoOTYM
Wolf aseq JUsTUaAUOD VW

equofq Hojod

*punoisyoe
YUM s0}eq Aeseq—

SII

q ey} ut

oI

‘9dA4] painjeu-poos pue
SHOL4SNpUL ‘“jUaSTT[a}UL UW ‘9sOU pROIq
yeymMoutos e pue ‘sdiy [nf ‘arey Apo
:3]y pue yUeI oY} Suowe uouUI0d o10UI
sainjeay oy} Surmoys ynq 4das aselsireuw
S,jolyo oY} jo ueul eB ‘uReMoOpIeg j0
‘uepiefpueq esivw Iqy IS-—PIl “oIy

‘uBresuIqey] JO syaryo
ay} JO ysour JO Sainjyeay sUY ay} So}eI}
“nyt efper oy, “Uarpytyo siy jo OM}

pue ‘ueiesuiqeyyT ‘ueeMmoopieg jo ‘ueyel
-pueq esieu sey elpey—fil “oIy

TOO SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Soeroengan was the only one of the larger mountains south of Toba
Lake that I could botanize clear to the top, and its possibilities I
barely scratched.

4. Two trips were made to the Karo plateau at the north end of
Toba Lake, where the U. S. Rubber Co. maintains bungalows at
Bérastagi. From Bérastagi I botanized the two volcanoes, Si Naboen
and Si Bajak, as well as the lesser mountains, Deléng Piso-Piso and
Deleng Baroes and the hills, Deleng Koetoe and Deleng Singkoet.

Fic. 116.—Panapparan, a mountain village on Tor Dabolon, above the
cliffs. The water from the higher levels is led to the rice terraces, which are
a marvel of beauty whether green with the young plants or golden with the
harvest. In the left background the summit of Dolok Si Riaria.

I collected ample material of several of Ridley’s plants, which will
be of value in interpreting his work, and also got many plants that
will probably be new to the flora.

I stayed in Sumatra a little over six months, and brought back
nearly 2,400 numbers, with many duplicates. At Loendoet my dry-
ing shed was destroyed by fire, with loss of many specimens and
most of my equipment. It took some improvising to take care of the
collections during a few days following the fire, but work was hardly
interrupted.

Ake IGRASSES OF OREGON AND WASHINGTON
3VeAn Oe Hl GHCO Eke

Custodian, Section of Grasses, U. S. National Museum

In connection with the preparation of a manual of the grasses of
the United States, I spent about to weeks in the study and collection
of grasses in Washington and Oregon. During much of the time I
was cooperating with the Forest Service, and many of the trips were
made in company with Mr. D. C. Ingram of the Portland office, a
botanist with a wide knowledge of the flora of Oregon.

The Olympic Mountains were visited at Solduc Hot Springs and
collections were made at Port Angeles and other points in western
Washington. In Oregon Mr. Ingram and I, with the aid of [Forest
Service officials, especially the rangers, visited various localities in
the Cascade, Deschutes, Umpqua, and Siskiyou Forests. Much of
the exploration was by horseback, using camp equipment or stopping
at ranger stations. In this way I was in intimate contact with graz-
ing conditions and could study the grasses in their native habitat under
varying environment. We crossed the divide going east over Mc-
Kenzie Pass. This region illustrates excellently the immense lava
flows that cover large areas with rough lava that does not yet sup-
port vegetation. Older flows are covered with forest. Passing
through Bend in the semi-arid region east of the Cascades we again
entered the forest and visited many of the beautiful lakes, such as
Odell, Crescent, and Davis. After several days’ travel over the moun-
tain trails of the Umpqua Forest we went to Grant’s Pass and started
on an exploration of the Siskiyou Forest. We used the main autobus
road to Crescent City, California, but made side trips to Pearsall
Peak, Tennessee Pass, Sanger Peak and other points. From Cres-
cent City we followed the coast north to Bandon, making  collec-
tions at several points, and then crossed to Roseburg.

Trips were made to Mt. Hood and The Dalles, and, to consult
collections of Oregon grasses, to the herbaria of Willamette Uni-
versity, Salem, the Agricultural College, Corvallis, and the State
University, Eugene. Forest fires prevented proposed trips to Mt.
Adams and Mt. St. Helens, in Washington.

The object of this trip and also of the one made by Mr. Swallen,
whose account follows, was to determine the amount of variation

IOI
102 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Fic. 117.—Lookout Station on Sanger Peak, northern California, in the
Siskiyou National Forest. These stations are placed on the high peaks to
aid in fire protection. A lookout man lives here during the summer months.
He is on the watch for fires. The notice of a fire with its direction is at
once telephoned to a central station. The living room is below, the observa-
tion room above.

Fic. 118.—California pitcherplant (Darlingtonia californica) in a bog
along Josephine Creek, near Kerby, Oregon. The leaves are tubular with |
an arching hoodlike summit, beautifully mottled with purple. Large numbers
of insects are found in the old leaves. The species is allied to the pitcher-
plants of our southeastern states (Sarracenia).

Fic. 119—McKenzie Pass, Oregon. The main road from Eugene to Bend
goes over the Cascade Mountains at this point. The whole region has been
covered with a series of lava flows. Here are shown comparatively recent
flows passing around a hill of earlier flows. The recent lava does not yet
support vegetation.

103

SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1927

"jS9104]
enbduiy) oy} Ul puNoy (wmnunUo;HulysvaAr UtKIIT )
A]I] 94M snonoidsuod pur [njynesq W—IZI ‘91

‘MOP pjO SIq} UO puNnoy oie so01}
asIV] WWOS ‘UoOT}eJVS9A s}ioddns Mou yey} Moy
pjO ue JO Ispa dy} ST PUNOISySeq 9Y} Ul Yueq sy
‘JSoIO opeosery 94} Ul MOY BAL] P[O—OZI “DIY

104 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

of each species observed, as it is influenced by its environment, and
to discover the characters by which different but similar species may
be distinguished.

3y riding or walking day after day through meadows, forests, and
plains, observing the cattle and sheep on the grazing areas, one learns
the choice of stock as to the different species of grasses. Some species
are eaten greedily ; others are avoided or eaten only under the pres-
sure of hunger.

A few years ago I described as new a species of mountain blue-
grass sent in by a correspondent from southwestern Oregon. On this

Fic. 122.—Bearegrass (Xerophyllum tenax), a conspicuous liliaceous plant
with white flowers found in meadows and openings in July. Cascade Forest,
Oregon. Summit of the Cascade range in the background.

trip I was able for the first time to observe this species in its native
habitat. It is confined to a rather limited area but is abundant there.

Grasses grow under a great variety of conditions, forest, meadow,
plain, marsh, rocky slopes, cliffs, alkali flats, seashore, even to the
highest peaks except where covered by permanent snow. But in
the main each species is confined to a definite set of environmental
conditions.

Specimens of grasses were collected to record the observations
made, the total number reaching some 200, representing about 100
different species. Common and well known species were not taken.

hE S GRASSES, OF ICABIFORNITA
By JASON R. SWALLEN

In order to investigate at first hand the melic grasses (Melica), an
important genus on the Pacific coast, a field trip was made to Cali-
fornia during the summer of 1927. At the same time, critical notes
were made on other grasses which required detailed study. I first
undertook a four-day trip across the Coast Range west of King City.
At the lower altitudes the season was too far advanced for profitable
study, but toward the summit the grasses were in the best of condition.
Later I visited points of interest at San Luis Obispo, Santiago Peak
in the Santa Ana Mountains, San Jacinto Peak, San Antonio Moun-
tain, and Arrowhead Lake, the last in the San Bernardino Mountains.
An interesting feature of San Jacinto Mountain is the presence near
the summit of a small lake called Hidden Lake. Only a few steps
from the edge of the lake one can look down the almost vertical side
of the mountain upon Palm Springs and the Colorado Desert 10,000
feet below. Material of Melica imperfecta was especially good and
abundant among the rocks on San Antonio Mountain. At Arrowhead
Lake I found an annual fescue (Festuca eastwoodae), which is very
infrequent.

In the early part of July, 10 days were spent in investigating the
grass flora of the King’s River Canyon and the adjoining mountains.
This necessitated a camping trip, and Sequoia National Park served
as a Starting point. I used a burro to carry camping equipment, which
proved to be much more convenient than carrying a pack myself.
Because of the beautiful scenery, this part of California has become
more and more popular with tourists and campers, even though it is
inaccessible except on foot or horseback. During the few days I spent
on this trip I passed several groups of as many as 30 campers, accom-
panied by large pack trains.

On the floor of the canyon at this time of year it is quite hot
and dry. The ground cover, composed to a large extent of annual
grasses, was almost completely dried up except in a few low places
near the river. As higher altitudes were reached, conditions became
much better. On either side of the canyon the walls rise almost per-
pendicularly for thousands of feet, making a very impressive sight.

105
106 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Fic. 123.—Giant wild-rye (Elymus condensatus). These plants are excep-
tional in the branched form of the panicles which are usually spikelike.
Found growing in dry sandy soil in the valley east of the Santa Ana
mountains. This species is characteristic of the hills of the Coast Range.

Fic. 124.—Scene on San Antonio mountain. Among the rocks to the left
is a species of Yucca; Melica imperfecta was also plentiful here. The white
streak on the mountain in the background is an area cleared by the Forest
Service to prevent the spread of fire. Note the improved mountain road.

+

ML NY ed. ty

Fic. 125.—The burro used during the King’s River trip. This trip
was made on foot, the burro carrying a light camp outfit and collecting
equipment.

SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1927 107

Fic. 126—Looking toward the King’s River Canyon from Copper Creek
trail to Granite Basin. Note the steep bare walls of the canyon. The floor
of the canyon is much lower than can be seen in the picture.

Fic. 127.—Granite Basin, along the main trail north from King’s River
Canyon. The vegetation here is stunted, growing for the most part in crevices
in the rocks. Note the effect of the wind on the tree in the foreground.
Altitude 10,500 feet.

8
108 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

I made as complete a collection of grasses as possible, for there are
but few collections from this region. The season was very backward
at high altitudes owing to the unusually large amount of snow that
fell during the past winter. Alpine work was, therefore, impossible,
and especially was this true of Mount Lassen, which I visited early

in August.

Fic. 128.—Scene just south of the main peak of Mt. Lassen, showing the
large amount of snow still present the latter part of July. Altitude about
9,000 feet.

Other places included in the summer’s work were the mountains
above Huntington Lake in Fresno County, and those above Lake
Tahoe in the vicinity of Twin and Ward Peaks. The mountains of
California provide excellent opportunity either for natural history
study or for recreation.

Over 500 specimens of California grasses were obtained during

the summer.

ARCHEOLOGICAL AX PE DIELON TLOxCHiINA
By Ce W> BISH@P:

Associate Curator, Freer Gallery of Art

In a previous publication, it has been made clear that the funda-
mental purpose of the Freer Gallery of Art in despatching a Field
“xpedition to China was not merely that of making collections, or
even of conducting researches on its own sole responsibility. The
aim, on the contrary, was to effect a definite and equitable arrange-
ment with the Chinese authorities and scientific bodies themselves
for the prosecution of archeological investigation on a closely coopera-
tive basis. Their considered but cordial response to our overtures has
amply demonstrated the wisdom of this policy and of its continuance.

Accompanied by my Chinese helper, Mr. K. Z. Tung, to whom is
due much of the credit for our subsequent success, | arrived im
Shanghai on March 17, 1923, and remained in the field, with the
exception of one brief interval, until April 30, 1927. During this
period of slightly over four years, close and very harmonious relations
were established with the Historical Museum of Peking, to which,
as previously stated, I was before long appointed Honorary Adviser
at the initiative of the Chinese Government, and also with the newly
founded Research Institute of Tsing Hua University, better known
to the American public as the ‘* Boxer Indemnity College.” Conjointly
with representatives of one or other of these bodies, ten of the Kighteen
Provinces of China, including all those of the greatest historical im-
portance, were visited and studied, and actual excavations were con-
ducted in three.

As part of this work has already been described in previous reports,”
it will not be further discussed here. To take up the account from
the spring of 1925, that season was spent in northern Shansi, where,
besides further study of the famous Buddhist sculptured caves of
Yiin Kang, a detailed exploration was made of a rather large area

centering about the important city of Ta-t‘ung. Many sites of great

1 Explorations and Field-lV ork of the Smithsonian Institution in 1924, Smith-
sonian Misc. Coll., Vol. 77, No. 2, p. 75.
se BOGUGIE:
* Loc. cit. and ibid. for 1926.
109
1 ce) SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Fic. 129.—Royal Tomb of the Northern Wei Dynasty (386-535 A. D.), near
Ta-t‘ung, northern Shansi.

Fic. 130—Remnants of the Great Wall, near Ta-t‘ung, northern Shansi.

SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1927 III

Fic. 131—Members of the Freer Gallery Expedition and the aeroplane in
which explorations were conducted.

Fic. 132.—Excavations at Peitaiho; uncovering the ancient earthen wall of
the fortified camp.
iwZ SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

historical significance were noted, among them what seems in all
probability to be that of the earlier capital of the Tartar dynasty
known as the Northern Wei (A. D. 386-535). A visit was also paid
to a region near the edge of the Mongolian plateau, where the
Hiung-nu, identified with the Huns who later ravaged nearly the
whole of Europe, are known to have held their great annual assemblies
about the beginning of the Christian Era. Here were secured num-
erous bronze objects, arrow-heads, knives, ornaments, and the like,
showing a decided Scythian or South-Siberian influence.

During the summer our attention was again devoted to the old
fortified site on the rocky promontory of Lighthouse Point, at
Peitaiho, on the Gulf of Chihli, mentioned in the report of our work
for 1924." -xcavations here disclosed remains of at least three periods,
a late Neolithic (prehistoric) occupation, a small but commanding
Han Dynasty fortification of about the beginning of our Era, and a
large entrenched camp apparently of the late Ming period, late 16th or
early 17th century. An accurate large-scale survey of the site made
by my associate, Mr. A. G. Wenley, who had come out to join me in
August, 1923, and Mr. Jas. M. Menzies, formerly Licensed Land
Surveyor for the Government of Canada, confirmed in an interesting
manner the deductions I had drawn the previous summer from an
inspection of the site from the air.

Early autumn found us once more in the northern Shansi area,
where we remained until the advent of severe winter weather, coupled
with local disturbances, put an end to all field activities. Shortly there-
after, Mr. Wenley left for Paris, where he has since been continuing
his Sinological studies under Professor Paul Pelliot and others.

In the following spring, that of 1926, I paid a visit to Ningpo, in
the region once occupied by the non-Chinese state of Yueh during the
Late Bronze Age, in the latter half of the Ist millennium B.C. The
prevalence of banditry prevented the carrying on of my investigations
on the scale originally planned; but enough was learned to demon-
strate the importance of this area as a field for future intensive study.

Returning from Ningpo to Shanghai, I next proceeded up the
Yangtse River with a view to investigating the remains of the old
non-Chinese countries of Wu and Ch‘u, formerly occupying the lower
and middle portions of the great valley respectively, and which did
not come under Chinese political domination until about the close
On therardicentuny a:

Conditions in the former area, that once occupied by the kingdom
of Wu, proved on the whole much like those prevailing in the delta

BE OGHEGUL (Db All

rer

SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1927

“IUIAOIG Yodn}y
ul ‘sueYyoT Avou :(., SUT UOSeIq] 9y} jo
DARD ,,) SUNT SueAA SUNT OY. — PEI ‘Oly

‘IsueYS Ustoy}A0U { soqrIs
IAOJsIYyIId IOF Suryoadsoid AopUIA\ “APY— ELI

‘OI

IIi4 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Fic. 135.—Chin Ssii Temple, near T‘ai-yuan, Shansi Province; a corner
of the court.

Fic. 136.—Scene of Dr. Chi Li’s Work, near village of Hsi Yin Ts‘un, in
southwestern Shansi.

SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1927 115

region of Egypt, and for the same reason. The shifting of the water-
courses through the ages and the deposition of enormous amounts of
silt render the prospect of successful excavation doubtful, save in a
few elevated areas; but it is precisely the latter, rising above the
wide-spreading marshes covering the region in ancient times, which
formed the only available sites for habitation.

In ancient Ch'u, on the other hand, corresponding roughly to the
modern provinces of Hupeh and Hunan, conditions are far otherwise.
The ground is higher, and we found ancient city walls and foundation
mounds numerous. Here again, disturbed political and military condi-
tions rendered only a superficial examination possible, even that being
conducted on one occasion under fire from a small group of irrespon-
sible soldiers. Enough was done, however, to disclose innumerable
remains of various periods, from prehistoric times downward, at or
very near the surface, and highly suggestive of the rich rewards
awaiting the systematic excavator.

Dr. Chi Li’s report of his preliminary reconnaissance of the Fen
River valley, in southwestern Shansi province, in the early spring of
1926, has already appeared.’ While engaged in this task, Dr. Li con-
tracted a severe case of typhus fever, always present in interior China,
which lacked little of terminating fatally. In the autumn, his health
being restored, he returned to the same area under the joint auspices
of the Freer Gallery of Art and Tsing Hua University. The Geological
Survey of China, with characteristic breadth of view, loaned us for
this work one of its best men, Mr. Philip L. Yuan, a very ca-
pable cartographer and geologist with large experience in Chinese
archeology.

Dr. Li, after reaching a highly satisfactory understanding with the
authorities and winning the confidence of the local peasantry, began
excavations on a late Stone Age village site of large dimensions, in
the extreme southwestern portion of Shansi province. He continued
his operations here until snow rendered excavation useless, and then
returned to Peking with nearly 80 packing-cases of excavated ma-
terial of all sorts. He is at this writing engaged in the preparation of
a full report of his finds.

It was my original intention, while Dr. Li was working in Shansi,
to devote myself to further work along the Yangtse River. The dis-
order and banditry prevailing in that region, however, made this out
of the question. Consequently I put into execution my long deferred
plan of exploring the province of Shansi throughout its entire length,

* Explorations and Field-W ork of the Smithsonian Institution in 1926, Smith-
sonian Misc. Coll., Vol. 78, No. 7, pp. 123-137.
116 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION |

Fic. 137.—Entrance to the Yangtse Gorges, near Ichang, Hupeh Province ; |
looking upstream. |

ae

reste

Fic. 138—Scene near Ningpo, in the region formerly occupied by the non-
Chinese Kingdom of Ytieh during part of the First Millennium B. C.

117

27

EXPLORATIONS, IQ

AN

SMITHSONI

‘sdARD Painydnos sy}
JO dUO JO MOIA JOSO[I ‘aes 94 .—'OrI “OIY

‘ISUBYS [RI}UID

‘sapduia} Jytpo istyppng : (,, sSuUreyuNoyY uoseiq

“ce

A[UdAROH{ ,,) URYS Sun] Usl,[—Of1 ‘dIy]

118 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

of about 500 miles by road. In this undertaking | was accompanied
by Mr. Tung. We traveled by Ford motor-car, finding many sites
new to science and securing a first-hand idea of the topography of the
region highly important to a correct interpretation of the movements
of man and the spread of civilization there in ancient times.

After visiting Dr. Li’s work, I returned to the provincial capital,
T‘ai-yuan, where I had the privilege of being presented to T. R. H. the
Crown Prince and Princess of Sweden, and of accompanying the
former by motor-car to a Neolithic site some distance away, under
the guidance of the eminent Swedish archeologist, Dr. J. G. Andersson.
Then, continuing my journey, I traveled northward for 200 miles,
crossing the Yun Chung Shan or “ Midst of the Clouds” range of
mountains by a pass of about 7,000 feet elevation, according to report.
This chain long formed the ancient Chinese frontier against the north-
ern barbarians, and along its foot to this day runs one of the Great
Walls so numerous in that part of China.

By the beginning of 1927 it had become apparent that the large
amount of material already gathered could be studied and reported
on to far better advantage in Washington than in China. Moreover,
the unsettled conditions almost universally existing in China rendered
the prosecution of further field-work there for the present a matter
of great uncertainty. I therefore arranged that Mr. Tung and Dr. Li
should remain in Peking, to maintain the close relations which we
had established with the leading Chinese scientific bodies and to
do such field-work as might be possible. Our Peking headquarters
were closed on April 30, and after visiting archeological sites and
collections of importance in Korea, Japan, Egypt, and Europe, I
arrived in Washington on August 6, 1927.

Thus, besides achieving the fundamental object for which it was
sent out, viz., that of reaching an understanding with the Chinese
themselves for effective cooperation in archeological research, the
Expedition has made a definite beginning in tracing out the develop-
ment of civilization in several of the historically more important
regions of China. The effort thus inaugurated, taken in conjunction
with the growing collections of the Freer Gallery of Art and the
steady acquisition of Chinese books by the Library of Congress,
promises in time to make Washington a center of Chinese studies
second to none. Further, owing to the ingrained respect for learning
entertained by the Chinese people of all classes, the friendly contacts
established by work such as ours provide one of the readiest means for
promoting a better understanding and closer harmony between Amer-
ica and China.

Ee ese

INDIAN VILLAGE SITES AND QUARRIES IN TENNESSEE

By WALTER HOUGH,
Head Curator of Anthropology, U. S. National Museum

On the report of some recently exhumed burials at Indian Mound,
Tennessee, brought to notice by Congressman Joseph W. Byrns, the
Bureau of American Ethnology sent the writer to investigate. Indian
Mound is a town named for a large mound in its midst. Owing to
wear and tear, the mound has been much reduced from its original
height. Recently several slab lined graves were carefully opened by
Thomas W. Seay, Jr., and protected as exhibits. One piece of pottery,
a polished flesher and beads, and a few other artifacts were found.

The writer, under the guidance of Mr. Seay, visited several village
sites and quarries in the vicinity of Indian Mound. Especially inter-
esting was a site at Brinton Hill having a heavy deposit of broken
flints and shells of Campeloma and Pleurocera from the Cumberland
River, fresh water mollusks which do not exist in the stream now.

The Mississippian limestone, which is the characteristic rock of this
region, is rich in flint. One great quarry on the Brigham place, near
Dover, yields large blocks of homogeneous, liver-colored flint from
which the aborigines struck the hoe blades 12 to 18 inches long typical
of the Mississippi agricultural complex. On a field of Mr. Brigham’s,
chips and worked implements of this flint are found in enormous
numbers. Other quarries were visited, but the quarry yielding a par-
ticularly fine blue flint was not located.

An important collection representing the types of usual worked
flint implements in this region was gathered for the Museum. Ex-
amples of these are shown on figure 141.

A widespread interest in archeological relics is displayed by the
people of this region. In general the land owners are averse to indis-
criminate digging by curiosity hunters, and for this reason most of
the numerous box graves are intact. On the other hand many fine
specimens found on the surface have come into the possession of
professional dealers in antiquities.

The Tennessee archeological field is very rich, and the State
Archeologist, Mr. P. E. Cox, and others are doing much to maintain
public interest in the antiquities of the State.

119
120 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Fic. 141.—Types of chipped stone implements from Northwestern Tennessee,

FIELD STUDIES OF EARLY MAN IN EUROPE, 1927
By ALES HRDLICKA,
Curator, Division of Physical Anthropology, U. S. National Museum

In the fall of 1927, the writer undertook a journey through [urope
in the furtherance of his studies of Early Man. The principal objec-
tives of the trip were: (1) A personal visit to some of the old as well
as the more important recently discovered sites of Early Man; (2) the
re-examination of a number of the skeletal remains of Early Man;
and (3) a study of such of the Aurignacian skeletal remains as the
writer has not been able to examine before. An additional object was
the delivery of the Huxley Memorial Lecture before the Royal
Anthropological Society of Great Britain.

The work began with the examination of the remains of arly Man
preserved in the Museum d’Histoire Naturelle, Paris. Through the
courtesy of Professor Marcellin Boule, the writer was able once more
to see personally the originals of the La Chapelle, La Ferrassie,
La Quina, and the two Aurignacian skeletons, which are preserved
in that institution. From Paris the journey led to Perigueux, where
careful re-examination and re-measurements were made of the contro-
versial Chancelade skeleton. After a day at Les Eyzies, spent princi-
pally in consultations with M. Peyrony, the writer went to the south of
France, where through the courtesy of the local guardians and Museum
men, he secured valuable original data on the Aurignacian skeletons 1n
the Museum of Monaco, and in the Museum and the Cave at Barma
Grande, over the Italian border. The next stop was at Lyon, where
thanks to Dr. Arcelin and Dr. Mayet the writer was able to examine
the five lately discovered Aurignacian and post-Aurignacian skeletons,
which have not yet been fully described. From Lyon the route led to
Paris and then to Liege, where through the kindness of Professor
Charles Fraipont and the brothers Lohest, it was possible to re-
examine and take some additional measurements on the originals of
the Spy skeletons.

From Liége the journey led to Dusseldorf and the highly inter-
esting and beautiful Neander Valley which in 1856 gave us the
original Neanderthal skeleton. The Neanderthal site has been
neglected by anthropology. Since the discovery of the Neanderthal

121
122 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Fic. 142——Neanderthal. The upper part of the right cliff, about where the
cave that gave the Neanderthal Man, terminated. The holes seen in and
near the center are said to be remnants of the large original cave. Below
the cave is about 60 feet of rock and debris. New (present) finds are almost
opposite across the valley, in loam lying just above the Devonian limestone.

Fic. 143.—A view across the Neander valley from the site of the old
cave to the limestone cliffs just above which new discoveries of early
cultural human remains are now being made.

SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1927 123

skeleton in 1856, no serious explorations have ever been carried on
there, and but few scientists have visited the spot. The valley is a
limestone gorge cut by the small stream Diissel. It took its name from
Joachim Neander, a song composer of the Reformed Church, who
frequented the valley in 1674-79. In 1856, workmen engaged in quar-
rying the limestone uncovered an ancient and very primitive human
skeleton, buried in the deposits of a cave. They tossed the bones and
earth down the slope with the other refuse. Later the owner of the
quarries, hearing of the find, asked that the bones be gathered. The
workmen found 14 pieces of the skeleton and these were placed in
the hands of Dr. Fuhlrott of Elberfeld, who eventually brought them
to the notice of the scientific world.

Some prominent scientists of the day were inclined to look upon
the low brow and the heavy supraorbital ridges of the skull, the thick-
ness of the bones, as well as many other characters of anthropological
inferiority, as evidences of an accidental monstrosity, or of a patho-
logical condition. But gradually new examples of this same early
type appeared in different parts of Europe, so that for a long time
now science has been sure they represent a regular phase in the
earlier evolution of man.

New finds of importance have recently been made in the Neander
Valley. Paleolithic implements in conjunction with the fossilized bones
of the mammoth and reindeer are now being found on the other side
of the valley from the earlier discovery, at the base of the very thick
layer of loam covering the limestone. So far the new site has not
revealed any skeletal remains of man.

There is need for systematic research in the Neanderthal Valley.
The rest of the original skeleton not recovered by the workmen after
they threw it in the débris must still be there. With this may possibly
be stone implements or fossil animal bones that were not noticed by
the laborers. Vestiges of the limestone cave in which the original
skeleton was found still exist (fig. 142) and ought to be searched for
extensions and possible additional clues to early man. And new dis-
coveries of the remains of early man in other as yet unexplored parts
of the valley are quite probable.

From Neanderthal the writer went to Berlin, where he secured addi-
tional observations on the Le Moustier and the La Combe skeletons.

The journey then led to Prague where, at the invitation of the
Czechoslovak Academy of Sciences and Arts, a lecture was given
before the Academy on the “ Ice Age and its Relation to Early Man.”
At Brno, the capital of Moravia, many of the new as well as older

9
124 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

discoveries relating to early man were examined, and from here an
excursion was made in the company of Professor Karel Absolon,
head of the Museum at Brno, to the new Aurignacian site at Viestonice,
southern Moravia.

This site, discovered three years ago, appears to be vast and rich
almost beyond estimation. It is located on the slopes of an isolated
massif of hills and there is a possibility that it extends over the
larger part of the slopes of these hills. It has already yielded over

Fic. 144.—A view down the Neander valley, right side, from near the site
of the old cave.

300,000 flints and other human artifacts, tons of bones of the mam-
moth, and most recently also the first Aurignacian human skeleton.
The government of Czechoslovakia is considering for the next year
extensive soundings by which the extent of the site and its relative
richness at different points may be determined.

Irom Moravia the writer returned once more to Paris, and thence
to London and Oxford where he was able to examine additional
ancient material, including the Rhodesian remains and the recently
discovered second Gibraltar skull, and to visit various institutions.

The Huxley Lecture was given at the Royal Society, November 8,
and on November 12, the writer sailed for America.

TINNE INDIANS OF THE LOWER YUKON RIVER
VATERY
By HERBERT W. KRIEGER,
Curator, Division of Ethnology, U. S. National Musewin

The Yukon River, like all great streams located in remote parts of
the world, never fails to excite one’s interest and imagination. But
little is known of the story of early human migrations that un-
doubtedly passed up or down its broad valley. At the suggestion of
Doctor A. Hrdliéka, and under the auspices of the National Acad-
emy of Sciences, excavations at certain archeological sites in the
lower Yukon River valley were made during 1927. Investigations
were carried on so far as conditions permitted at Shageluk, Holo-
gochakat, Anvik, and at Bonasila, an old village site 18 miles below
the mouth of the Anvik River. The high stage of water during May
and June did not permit completion of this work, so that another
season might profitably be spent in conducting further archeological
studies in the valley of the lower Yukon.

The site at Bonasila yielded skeletal material and cultural objects
that indicate the early presence there of widely distinct ethnic groups.
A curious contrast was observed in the types of implements re-
covered. Crudely fractured implements of schistose and shale rock,
some of which had been used as knives, were slightly smoothed and
beveled at the cutting edges but were otherwise unworked. There
were also uncovered symmetrically shaped and highly polished neph-
rite celts such as are commonly fashioned by the Eskimo of northern
Alaska. Jadeite adzes, Eskimoan in type, were found along with
erooved, single and double bitted stone axes such as are occasionally
found at various points along the Yukon, Koyukuikx, and Susitna
Rivers. Another contrast noted was that of carved objects of fossil
ivory and of bone tools and stone weapon points. The ancient fossil
ivory culture of north Alaska, of St. Lawrence and the lesser islands
of Bering Sea is characterized by implements of fossil walrus ivory
with beautifully scrolled and spiral surface etchings entirely distinct
from the typical rectilinear and circle and dot etchings of the Eskimo.
There are no realistic designs in silhouette etched on ivory as in the
hunting and fishing delineations of the Eskimo of southwest Alaska.

12

UL
126 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Fic. 146.—The modernized tunnel-like entrance to the men’s club of Anvik.
Formerly entrance might be obtained only by crawling on all fours.

Fic. 147A painted wooden grave box from Anvik illustrates how the
occupant once caught a white whale in the Yukon.
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1927 127

be

Fic. 148.—Athapascan Indians of the lower Copper River preparing their
catch of fish obtained with the fish wheel.

Fic. 149.—The spring break-up of the ice on the Tanana River at Nenana,
Alaska.

Fic. 150.—Tinne Indians of the lower Yukon fishing with wires and traps
through the ice of the Yukon.
128 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

The find of implements of fossil ivory with etched surface designs
similar to early Siberian and north Alaskan types marks the site at
Bonasila as the most advanced interior point known to have been
reached by this culture.

Fragments of coarse black pottery were exhumed. These were
decorated with rim hachure and were modeled like the heavy thick
earthenware of the Eskimo. However, making of pottery by the
Tinne Indians of the lower Yukon valley has been discontinued.

The art of painting, on wooden grave boxes, fishing or hunting
scenes of special significance in the lives of the deceased is still occa-
sionally practised. One of the grave box panels exhumed contains a
realistic painting with black figures on a red background depicting the
harpooning of a beluga or white whale. Another old panel from a
wooden grave box at Bonasila shows in a spirited manner several
reindeer running before a hunter.

The contrast in cultural objects emphasizing both Eskimo and
Indian influences is complicated by the anomalous find of skeletal
material which according to Doctor Hrdlicka is dissimilar alike to
Eskimo and Tinne physical types.

The valley of the lower Yukon below the mouths of the Anvik and
Innoko Rivers was formerly Eskimo territory. A well defined trail
extends from Anvik, up the Anvik River to the Eskimo village of
Unalaklikmiut on Norton Sound near St. Michael. Another trail
crosses the portage from the Kuskokwim to the Yukon River in the
vicinity of Russian Mission. Eskimo formerly ascended these rivers
beyond their present range of travel and there are many traditions
of hostile encounters with Tinne Indians as far upstream as the con-
fluence of the Koyukuk and Yukon Rivers. The environs of Shage-
luk Slough, east of Anvik, were formerly frequented by herds of
caribou, whose presence there supplied a reason for the Eskimo ad-
vance to the interior. There is now a government herd of reindeer
at Shageluk, thriving and increasing in numbers.

A brief study was made of the Tinne Indians of the villages of
Anvik, Hologochakat, Shageluk, and other villages below the con-
fluence at Fort Gibbon of the Tanana and Yukon Rivers. Many
details of their ceremonial and religious life are similar to those of
the Eskimo, the ceremonial masks and dances in particular being
almost identical in appearance.

Indians of the lower Yukon gain a living primarily by fishing and
hunting, but appear to be less energetic than the Tinne of the villages
of Kaltag, Nulato, and Tanana farther upstream, who are primarily

‘ad A} VSOUIYD B SoTquiasal OYM “AIQUNOD JOA “RI[RSot [[NJ ul
YIAUY JO UeIpuy suUTT, W— ESI ‘951, Joddoy oy} Ul [Ie 94} UQ—ZSI ‘DIY ‘oATJeU UeUeT eB ‘ayN] JoIyD— ISI “DIY

1927

EXPLORATIONS,

SMITHSONIAN

130 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

hunters. Yukon natives are great travelers. They think nothing of
a 100 or 200 mile journey upstream or downstream. The same ap-
plies to trapping and hunting expeditions inland, but the final destina-
tion is always the river, either as a temporary camp or winter home.
An Indian’s trapping line may be 50 to 100 miles from his winter
home, while his fish wheel and fish drying racks are always located
at a distance from the winter village.

A successful season for the Yukon native nets him an income
equivalent to that of many a city dweller within the United States.
The Indian of the Yukon valley has adopted the civilization of the
white man and now lives in a log cabin instead of the semisubter-
ranean, earth covered pit house used by his ancestors. No difference
was noted in the construction of the cabins of the Indians and of the
white men. Log cabins with mossed chinks and moss covered over-
hanging roof are warm in winter but hot in summer. They are fre-
quently infested with vermin and are dark, as many have no windows.

The modern Indian of the Yukon valley builds a small canoe of
sawed boards after the model of the old birch bark canoe “ trich”
with its double overlapping strips of birch bark at the sides. A very
few old canoes of birch bark survive. They were modeled accord-
ing to the same principles as the kayak of the Eskimo and were
covered over with birch bark at prow and stern with an opening
large enough for only one person who operated the boat from a
kneeling position at the center of the canoe. The Tinne make beauti-
ful baskets of birch bark sewn with spruce roots around the margin,
also coiled baskets of willow and grass with decorative panels in
black, blue, and pink vegetable dyes.

The Yukon Indian still spears the lamphrey eel and catches fish in
traps through holes cut in the ice. The ice covering the Yukon in
winter reaches a thickness of from three to five feet. In summer
the native catches one or more tons of salmon in his fish wheel, dries
them, and packs them in bales. The Indian woman stands the entire
day at a fish rack cleaning the fish caught in the fish wheel. In pre-
serving their catch of fish no salt is used, but smoking over a slow
fire of green wood, grass, and moss is resorted to. Cured salmon
are eaten dry and uncooked. The Yukon Indian prefers beef, when-
ever he can get it, to caribou meat as he says meat of wild animals
has no strength. Sugar and tea are in great demand.

The kashim is an organization of the men of the village. A coun-
cil of three under the leadership of the village shaman is the ruling
body within the organization, whose visible incorporation is the

SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1927 131

Fic. 154.—Chief Thomas of Nenana, Alaska, with his sled which is fastened
together with sinew.

Fic. 155.—Every Alaska Indian knows that animals may take off their
skin and assume human characteristics at will. Hence the resemblance of
these animal and bird masks to human beings.

Fic. 156.—An improvised salmon curing rack with inverted birch bark canoe
and fish trap in the foreground.
SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

-

—™)
bo

communal structure where the unmarried men of the village sleep.
The kashim is used as a workshop by the men of the village in winter
and during inclement weather, and by the entire community at the
occasion of the frequent ceremonial dances. The roof is built of
horizontally placed spruce logs reaching from one end of the struc-
ture to the other, a distance of 30 to 40 feet. The slope of the roof
is quadrangular and converges toward the smoke hole at the apex.
This is made possible by cutting each tier of roof beams shorter than

Fic. 157.—Rosario, the last of the Fic. 158.—Tinne Indian girl of An-
pottery makers among the Tinne In- vik whose attire represents a contrast
dians of the lower Yukon. of the new with the old. The bandeau

and beaded pendants advertise her
marriageability.

the tier of beams just beneath and by supporting it on a diagonal
plate which rests on the two adjoining beams at each of the four
converging corners. Over the entire structure is heaped earth, giv-
ing it a resemblance to the earth covered lodge of the Pawnee Indians
of the United States. There are no windows, but at Anvik and other
villages along the Yukon, the old smoke hole at the center of the
roof has been glassed in, providing a cupola skylight. The kashim
at Anvik is lighted with modern gasolene lamps, and is heated with
a Yukon sheet iron stove.

PR EUS ORIG VINEAABILANTS OF THE COLUMBIA
RIVES Re We IEE"
By HERBERT W. KRIEGER,

Curator, Division of Ethnology, U. S. National Mitsewmn

The tracing of early travel and migration routes in the Pacific
Northwest is one of the most absorbing phases in the study of primi-
tive American civilization. Archeological evidence of culture rela-
tionships that formerly existed between great groups of native
Americans has been found in the upper plateau region, in the basin
of the Columbia River in the states of Washington, Oregon, and
Idaho. In recent years studies of these early cultural relationships
have been made at various points in the valley of the Columbia by
the Washington State Museum, the University of California, the
American Museum of Natural History, and the Bureau of Ameri-
can Ethnology.

During the summer and early fall of the current year archeological
investigations for the Bureau of American [Ethnology were con-
tinued in the arid section of the Columbia Basin and in the valley of
the Snake River. In 1926, the region extending from the mouth of
the Yakima River to the Canadian border was explored. During
the present season exploration of archeological sites was continued
from the mouth of the Yakima River to Mosier, Oregon, in the
vicinity of The Dalles. At this point an appreciable increase in rain-
fall and forest growth marks the dividing line between the humid
northwest coast and the arid plateau of the interior.

Of the many objects uncovered, a small number were of value in
distinguishing sub-culture areas, although in most essentials the
early occupants of the upper plateau possessed a remarkably uni-
form culture. The sub-culture area of north central Oregon appears
to be distinguished by the excellent chipping of weapon points and
tools from obsidian, jasper, agate, and chalcedony. The sub-area of
The Dalles and Miller Island, the so-called ‘ Dalles culture,” is
characterized to a greater degree than is the sub-area of north cen-
tral Oregon by realistically shaped animal and human figurines exe-
cuted in stone and wood and appearing on wooden combs, stone
pestle heads, stone bowls, and as stone plaques. The sub-area of The
Dalles is also unique in the possession of a lozenge or ovoid-shape

133
134 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Fic. 159.—A picture gallery from the Columbia River. On the basalt
cliffs at Vantage, Kittitas County, Washington, may be recognized the
carved figures of big horn sheep, Rocky Mountain goat, deer, and elk, but
not of horse or bison.

SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1927 135

stone knife with beveled lateral surfaces shaped by rubbing. This
type of knife was found in abundance at Lyle, Washington. In the
Snake River valley a form of bone or horn knife supplants the
knife of chipped stone which prevails elsewhere in the Columbia
Basin except in the areas mentioned.

The materials used as tools, or as media on which to execute art
designs, are characteristic of very restricted localities and vary in
many instances from village to village. The distinctions are the more
clear cut, the more ancient the site and the more free the area from
the influence of contiguous culture areas. It appears that the realis-
tic carvings of the coast Chinook and Salish, executed for the most
part in wood but also in stone, were copied by the tribes of the arid
interior who used horn or stone as a medium. Jn such cases the more
remote the village from the influence of the realistic coast art, the
more frequently do geometric designs occur. Some Chinookan pieces
were carried up the Columbia River, while objects made by the coast
Salish found their way across the Cascades from Puget Sound and
British Columbia. The presence of nephrite celts in burial offerings
becomes less frequent the farther south one proceeds down the
Columbia River. None was found by the writer below the confluence
of the Yakima River.

The interior Salish tribes living in the valley of the Columbia
north of Saddle Mountains were influenced by the coast Salish, com-
munication being established through the Okanogan and Frazer
River valleys and the intervening mountain passes to Puget Sound.
The Shahaptian tribes were more directly influenced by the Chinook
of the lower Columbia Valley and have consequently a superior com-
mand of realistic art designs principally of animal and human figu-
rines in wood and horn. The so-called “ Dalles culture” is nothing
more than a modified coast culture.

Certain spots along the Columbia River were frequented by tribes
from tributary rivers, such as the Willamette, John Day, Deschutes
and others. These favored spots were near the falls or rapids of the
Columbia or of some tributary stream. Here were caught and dried
the salmon for the winter food supply. Here, also, was carried on
trade in hemp, dentalium shell (the wampum of the west), blankets,
and other native products, as well as in white man’s trade goods ob-
tained from trading posts. From the Shoshonean tribes on the east
and from the Nez Percé Indians in Idaho came native products such
as tanned bison skins, tailored costumes, elbow pipes and ornaments,
while from the north came nephrite celts and an occasional decorated
northwest coast pipe.
136 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Fic. 160.—The canyon of the Snake River in Idaho. South of Lewiston the
gorge reaches a depth of nearly one mile.

va i ae
- - posi a

Fic. 161.—The falls and rapids of the Deschutes River near its confluence
with the Columbia where, according to early accounts, was the greatest
native trading center in the Columbia Valley.

SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1927 Wey)

~ het

it any lie oe ae :
j ‘edt

=:

Fic. 162.—Engraved dentalium shells exhumed from an ancient Wanapum
Indian grave at Wahluke, Grant County, Washington.

Fic. 163.—An example of stone sculpturing characteristic of The Dalles
culture of north central Oregon.
138 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

At Page, Washington, on the Snake River about 20 miles from
Pasco, were noted definite departures from the general type of
archeological remains characteristic of the sites along the Columbia
River. No copper ornaments or other objects of metal were found;
nor were any objects uncovered, other than dentalium shell, that
might indicate intercourse with British Columbia or with the tribes
of the lower Columbia. Bone knives and scrapers here displaced
those of chipped stone ; weaving implements and perforators were of
antler or bone instead of chipped or rubbed stone as on the Columbia.
Pairs of sandstone arrowshaft rasps; fine-grained, grooved stone
polishers ; basketry fragments, showing styles of false embroidery,
lattice weave, and simple twining ; ovoid stone war clubs; and burials
either with red paint or of the usual cremation group type—all these
characteristics indicate a sub-culture area transitional between the
Shoshoni on the east and south and the Shahaptian tribes of the
middle Columbia Basin.

A unique object exhumed from the cremation burial at Page is a
projectile weapon resembling a lance or atlatl head. The blade point
is of chipped jasper; the shaft is a stem of charred wood eight
and one-half inches long which tapers from a diameter of three-
fourths inch at the nocked base to less than one-half inch at the broken
nock end. A groove one-eighth of an inch deep and of equal width
extends the length of the shaft. The find of an atlatl among the
burial offerings at Page marks the first known occurrence of this
projectile weapon within the area of the upper plateau. The atlatl
dart is identical with that described and figured by Kidder and
Guernsey’ from the San Juan district in northeastern Arizona.

Native rock sculpture is of great interest although its significance
is often obscure. It is usually possible to correlate rock inscriptions
or pictographs with types of culture objects exhumed in cemeteries
or village sites within the area near by. In such cases the finding
of petroglyphs or pictographs becomes a key as to what objects of an
archeological nature one may expect to find in the vicinity. Realis-
tic animal figures carved on the basalt cliffs at Spearfish, Washing-
ton, and at The Dalles, Oregon, are similar to the animal figurines
carved in wood and horn by the Indian tribes of the lower Columbia
and of Puget Sound. Rock inscriptions at Roosevelt, Washington, ex-
cept for one maze-like inscription covering several square feet of
rock surface, are nondescript and have apparently little value as an
archeological key; while the paintings on the cliffs of the John Day

*“ Archeological Explorations in Northeastern Arizona,” Bull. 65, Bur. Amer.
Ethnol., p. 182; also plate 84 (18).

139

SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1927

“uojsulyse

ye jeseq Ie

jeoljoquiAs pue uewny

uuIn[Ooo

NM ‘Ayunog se

ey} uo p

way

JAI

‘asejUe A

a

jewiuy—991

soinsy
‘OI

AVALVIG Widd~) AHL WOW DNIAYVD AAILVN JO

‘oyep]
‘uojsIMaT «JO YNos uoAueD TIATY VyYVUS
a4} WoOry Somnsy Surouep uewnyz{—'sor “oy

Sad AL,

wo1tt

*soT[eq

FOL

SSUIAIBO

Ieou

ainsy

uoysulyseAA ‘

ysyairads
[emiuy— Por ‘DIA

10
I40 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

River are again typical of the area and remind one of the animal
figures etched in silhouette on the columnar basalt bluffs of the
Columbia River at Vantage Ferry, Kittitas County, Washington.
Inscriptions on the escarpment of the Snake River at various points,
as at Central Ferry, at Almota, at the mouth of the Alpawa River,
in Washington, and at Nampa and Pocatello, in Idaho, are character-
istic of the art designs of the area in which they occur and differ
markedly from rock inscriptions elsewhere.

The unique inscriptions, human figurine and animal figure rock
sculptures, and paintings of the bison, at Buffalo Rock, about 20
miles south of Lewiston, Idaho, on the east bank of the Snake River

Fic. 167.—Figures of bison painted in red on a basalt rock 20 miles south of
Lewiston, Idaho.

differ radically from other nearby inscriptions and are not charac-
teristic of the petroglyphs or pictographs of central Idaho. They
resemble much more what one might expect to find in a typical
Basket Maker environment. It is possible that future investigations
will reveal the presence in the Snake River valley of other evidence
of a similar nature.

The type of early culture that existed within the arid sections of
the Columbia Basin is definitely established. Many of the connect-
ing culture and trade relationships are known. The relationship
with the Shoshoni and with the cultures on the south, those of the
Basket Maker and the Pueblo, is not yet clearly defined. Further
research along the Snake River and in southern Idaho will no doubt
bring out additional evidence of relationships with the pre-agricul-
tural peoples of the southwest.

PREALSEORIC: PUEBLO BONITO, NEW _MEXIEO
BY NER Me JUDD;

Curator, Division of American Archeology, U. S. National Museum

Since 1920, annual explorations* have been pursued under the
auspices of the National Geographic Society in Pueblo Bonito, at
once the largest, oldest and most important of the 17 major ruins
comprising Chaco Canyon National Monument, northwestern New
Mexico. These annual explorations, which I have had the pleasure of
directing, are now concluded and preparation of the final reports
recording the observations made is well under way.

Pueblo Bonito is not only the most important ruin in Chaco Canyon
but it is, perhaps, the most important structure of its period in the
entire Southwest. No other Pueblo village of pre-Spanish times so
far as we are aware exhibits in equal degree the high development in
civic organization, in architecture and the lesser cultural arts, so
evident at Pueblo Bonito. Here is represented the very acme of pre-
historic Pueblo civilization. Here are the crumbling walls of a vast
communal settlement—an aboriginal apartment house—whose 500 or
more connecting rooms, arranged in four terraced stories, sheltered
no less than 1,200 individuals. These were farmers, tillers of the desert
soil; their wide-spreading fields of corn, beans, and squash were
watered by spring and mid-summer floods that poured off the bor-
dering cliffs to be caught and diverted through man-made channels
to areas of cultivation. But in time these fertile lands were rendered
barren through thoughtless sacrifice of neighboring, limited forests
to the ambitious building programs of the villagers. With the forest
growth felled, arroyos formed ; fields were destroyed. Our archeologi-
cal evidence tends to show that altered geophysical conditions 1n Chaco
Canyon was one of two major factors contributing to the gradual
decline of Pueblo Bonito and its final abandonment approximately
1,000 years ago.

The Pueblo Bonito explorations of the National Geographic So-
ciety were brought to an end in 1926 and the season which followed
was devoted wholly to preparation of the writer’s final reports. But
occasional opportunity was found for re-examination of the canyon
walls and the table lands that stretch north and south from the Rio

* Smithsonian Misc. Coll., Vol. 72, Nos. 6 & 15; Vol. 74, No. 5; Vol. 76, No. 10;
Wolt77, No.2; Vol. 78, Nos. 1 & 7.
141
142 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Fic. 168.—Pueblo Bonito as it appeared in 1920, at the beginning of the
National Geographic Society’s explorations. (Photograph by Charles Martin.
Courtesy of the National Geographic Society.)

Fic. 169.—Excavation of Pueblo Bonito was concluded in 1924, but the
two following seasons were devoted to study of earlier walls beneath the
house group and its related court levels. (Photograph by O. C. Havens.
Courtesy of the National Geographic Society.)

SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1927 143

Fic. 170.—Three shallow basins, pecked from solid sandstone, occupy the
middle of this circular, stone-enclosed area on the cliff above Pueblo Bonito.
(Photograph by Neil M. Judd. Courtesy of the National Geographic
Society. )

MY coy cers
© cert a
te

a Mie. tS ae
Se OTE Mee a ee

Fic. 171.—Among Chaco Canyon’s archeological puzzles are terraces
formed by massive retaining walls, one of which is here partially shown.
(Photograph by Neil M. Judd. Courtesy of the National Geographic
Society. )
I44 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Chaco. The handiwork of ancient man, his indefatigable energy, is
evidenced on every hand. Stairways, massive walls, “ roadways”
and divergent channels for irrigation are to be found in every section
of the canyon. And much of this ancient work is inexplicable to us
now; much represents a colossal and seemingly useless expenditure
of human labor.

Local works related to prehistoric agriculture are, unfortunately,
not at once apparent in this 20th Century. Chaco Canyon has changed
since Bonitian farmers scratched its clayey soil with their crude dig-
ging sticks and sought to insure more bountiful crops through dra-
matic ceremonials and the planting of feathered prayer plumes to
gods who control the rains. Fields once cultivated now le buried
beneath several feet of silty deposits, washed down from upper levels
and spread uniformly across the valley floor. With concealment of
these acres, time has also hidden from view those divergent channels
the ancients constructed. But here and there, newly formed arroyos
have cross-sectioned such a channel and perhaps disclosed the slab-
stones or the imprint of its wickerwork re-enforcements.

What the Navaho refer to as “ roadways ” offer an entirely different
problem. Imaginative Indians describe these cleared paths and ex-
pound at length upon the use to which they were put in ancient times,
but the more conservative and trustworthy individuals, like old Hosteen
Beyal, frankly admit that although they look like roads their makers
could not possibly have intended them for use as such. Our south-
western aborigines had no beasts of burden, excepting dogs, and no
wheeled vehicles prior to advent of the Spaniards in 1540. What func-
tion then did these “ roadways” serve?

Two seemingly reasonable explanations come to mind: They were
utilized either by religious processions passing from one community
to another at stated intervals or they were prepared for the easier
transportation of large timbers required in house construction. The
latter appears to me the more plausible explanation. Within the
historic period, Pueblo peoples are not known to have sent to neigh-
boring villages messengers on recurrent ceremonial missions of such
significance as to warrant prior construction of a special pathway ;
supposedly, no such necessity existed in prehistoric times. But a
“road” would both expedite and facilitate the transportation of logs.
Thousands of them were utilized in roofing the rooms of Pueblo
Bonito alone ; a newly felled pine is no light burden even for a dozen
men. Since the need for beams was fairly constant, the Chacoans
may well have anticipated the difficulties involved and lessened them
somewhat by preparing the “ roadways”’ under consideration. All

‘

SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1927 145

Frc. 172.—Loose stones were rolled to one side, forming this prehistoric
“road” in Chaco Canyon. On the skyline, above the Indian, appear the
ruins of New and Old Alto. (Photograph by Neil M. Judd. Courtesy of
the National Geographic Society.)

Fic. 173.—This yellow pine, felled during the winter of 1926-7, was the
last of its kind visible from Pueblo Bonito. Tents of the National Geo-
graphic camp show in the middle left distance. (Photograph by Neil M.
Judd. Courtesy of the National Geographic Society. )
146 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Fic. 174.—A pecked groove, of unknown import, on the ancient ‘“ roadway ”"
southeast of Pueblo Alto. The distant figure stands on a related step series.
(Photograph by Neil M. Judd. Courtesy of the National Geographic
Society. )

Fic. 175.—Between these two figures lie the much weathered stairs
shown in the illustration above. (Photograph by Neil M. Judd. Courtesy
of the National Geographic Society. )

147

SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1927

(‘Ayo1ID0G s1Yydeisoary [eUOeN 94} JO Asoyino Dy
‘ppnf ‘W TPN Aq ydessojoyg ) “}yysts soddn 9y} ye sireys
quardiour ‘snoyidiseid 910 9y} JO JUsUIUOpURge Jo9}}e
yno sem ‘2/91 ul uOsypef “"H “M Aq poinsy pue paqtiios
-ap ‘apex OAWEYD FO You AeMATe}s SIU. —'ZZI ‘IY

(‘AyBINOG o1ydesso0ar) [RUONeN 9y} JO
AsoyinoyjD ‘ppnf “ww [leN Aq ydessojoyd) ‘“SurMmoy[oy
pue ose sivdd 9914}-A]YSIo UOAURD OORYD UI Mouy oY
SPpOOMUO}}OD PUB SMOPRO JUPPIIA 9Y} Paf[edet JourtuNs
se] OYM ‘uURlIeusseuUOU ‘JeAaq U9d}SOF{—OZI “DIY

148 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

this, of course, is purely speculative. Positive proof is lacking. Yet
it is significant that these so-called “ roads,” traceable on both sides
of Chaco Canyon, often lead from near a major ruin back across
the mesas to another ruin or to some rocky ridge or rincon where pine
trees doubtless grew in former times.

Pecked stairs occur wherever such a “ road” crosses a natural ter-
race or ledge. Frequently these obstacles are so insignificant, com-
paratively, as to raise a question as to the necessity for steps, especially
steps from 5 to 18 feet in width. I have seen Navaho drive their
wagons with little hesitation over far rougher places. Yet, with rude
stone hammers, the prehistoric Chacoans cut these stairs from solid
sandstone to provide surer footing for their sandaled feet. No un-
certainty exists on this score.

On the mesa north of Pueblo Bonito is a vast mound of fallen
masonry known as old Pueblo Alto. Some 200 yards south of the
ruin, a step series leads downward to connect with a “ roadway ” ex-
tending southeasterly more than a mile to the rim of Chaco Canyon
where a stairway, now almost wholly obliterated through weathering
processes, descends into the canyon. For a considerable distance this
“road” is recognizable by the retaining wall on its lower side ; in one
place, it bisects a rounded knoll. Across bare sandstone, occupying
the approximate middle of the “ road,’ a pecked groove follows the
irregular surface to lose itself under drifted sand and to reappear
again and again. Its true significance remains unknown; we have ob-
served no similar groove in connection with other ancient ‘ roads’ in
Chaco Canyon.

3elow the mesa top, half a mile northwest of Pueblo Bonito, and
on the west side of the rincon north of Chettro Kettle are long terraces
whose massive masonry, roughly laid, slopes upward and toward the
cliff. These, too, are known to the Indians as roads but they lead
nowhere. Each is barred by colossal sandstone blocks; cliffs crowd
in at one side. Neither shows trace of former buildings nor indication
of agriculture. In both cases the filled and fairly level area resulting
seems wholly inadequate for any purpose commensurate with the labor
each terrace represents.

Throughout the Chaco Canyon region successive generations of
prehistoric men have left their finger prints to mark a slow but cer-
tain progress from a primitive, semi-nomadic mode of life to that
highly organized social state evidenced by Pueblo Bonito and its neigh-
boring ruins. But not all the diversified achievements of these ancient
folk are interpretable from the fragmentary record we have inherited.

THE ESKIMO OF WESTERN ALASKA

By HENRY Bs COLEINS | IR.
Assistant Curator, Division of Ethnology, U. S. National Museum

From the standpoint of the anthropologist, the section of Alaska,
from Bristol Bay northward along the coast to the mouth of the
Yukon, is one of much interest, for here dwell the most primitive
group of Eskimo to be found in all of Alaska. The region is bleak
and dreary in the extreme, consisting for the most part of vast
stretches of flat monotonous tundra broken in places by low mountains
which extend to the coast and stand out as bold capes and headlands.
The Bering Sea is here very shallow and frequently stormy, making
navigation difficult. There are hardly more than a dozen white people
in this entire region and no industrial or commercial activity of any
kind, hence it is seldom visited by ships from the outside. Due to their
isolated position the Eskimo here have retained more of the essential
features of their native culture than those of any other part of Alaska.

For the purpose of observing these people, their manner of life
and their physical type, as well as to collect skeletal and cultural ma-
terial from inhabited and abandoned villages, the writer and Mr. T.
Dale Stewart, of the Division of Physical Anthropology, U. S. Na-
tional Museum, were detailed to conduct field-work along the coast
of western Alaska, including the island of Nunivak, in continuation
of the anthropological survey of northern and central Alaska made
by Dr. Ales Hrdlicka in the summer of 1926. The work was conducted
under the auspices of the Bureau of American Ethnology, the U. S.
National Museum, the American Association for the Advancement
of Science, and the American Council of Learned Societies.

We were fortunate in obtaining transportation to Nunivak Island
on the U. S. S. Boxer, operated by the Federal Bureau of Education
in the interest of the native schools it maintains throughout Alaska.
The Boxer stopped at Unalaska, Akutan, and Ugashik on the Aleutian
Islands and the Alaska Peninsula, and later at Kanakanak on the
upper part of Bristol Bay. Here the Bureau of Education has estab-
lished an orphanage and hospital and is doing a splendid work in
educating and supporting the native children whose parents have
died during the repeated influenza epidemics of recent years. Thanks

149
INSTITUTION

SMITHSONIAN

150

(‘jJ4eM9}5 Aq Ydeisojoyg) “dwie] [Io [eas ay} Surpjoy s0f y10ddns
UapooM eB spurs jd 91y 94} JO YOeq ysnf{ ‘syxuejd YM JIAO pataAod puke puNo1S910} 9y} UL UMOYsS ‘yd
a1Y Id1P] BY} OJUT OsTe susdo SoouLysUT SWIOS UT YOIYA ‘aoURIQUa 9¥I]-JoUUN ay} SI IJa] Py ‘puR]syT Yearuny
uo ‘asnoy [eUoUIaII9 soul ‘ahysny eB JO ‘1eat puke JUOIZ ‘10119 oY} JO SMarA—‘OZI pue QI “SDI

‘

SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1927 I5I

Fic. 180.—Eskimo children at Nash Harbor, Nunivak Island. When the
Bureau of Education school was established here 5 years ago not a native on
the Island spoke English. Today the children at Nash Harbor not only
speak very good English but delight in singing songs and reciting poetry
in their new language. (Photograph by Collins. )

Fic. 181—Eskimo man at Nash Harbor wringing out seal skins to dry.
From these will be cut the fish lines and fish and seal nets with which the
Eskimos catch cod, salmon, and seal. (Photograph by Collins. )
152 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

to the willing cooperation of the Bureau representatives, we were
able to obtain measurements on the full blood children, 42 in num-
ber, and in addition to investigate some of the nearby sites of old
settlements.

Leaving Bristol Bay we continued northward along the coast,
stopping at Kulukak, Togiak, Mumtrak, and Tanunuk. The Eskimo
here live in small villages, usually along the coast near the mouth of
a stream. They subsist principally on fish, seal, and birds, together
with berries and a few other native plants. The most important item
of their clothing is the inevitable parka, a long coat-like garment made
of feathers or fur. Their dwellings are semi-subterranean, consisting
of a square or octagonal excavation from one to three feet deep with
walls and roof built up of successive tiers of driftwood logs, for
there is no timber anywhere along the coast north of Bristol Bay.
The outside is completely covered with sod on which in summer there
is growing grass, giving to the house more the appearance of a small
mound than a dwelling. The houses are entered through a small ante-
chamber, connected with the main room by a narrow tunnel-like pas-
sage. A characteristic feature of these Eskimo villages is the kashim,
or kuzhge, where the men and boys spend the greater part of their time
and where the dances and winter ceremonies are held. The kashim
is larger than the women’s house and in construction differs from it
in several respects. For winter travel the Eskimo use sleds and dog
teams while in summer most of their journeys are made in the kayak,
the ingeniously made skin boat so typical of the Eskimo everywhere.
The kayak has a light frame of drift-wood tightly lashed together
with leather thongs and covered over with seal skin. A round opening
is left at the center just large enough to hold two people sitting back
to back. In front of the paddler, resting on ivory pegs along the
sloping top of the kayak, are laid the harpoon, bird spears, and throw-
ing stick, but in addition to these native weapons of the chase, the
Eskimo of today usually has a rifle or shotgun stowed away inside
the kayak.

On June 21st we landed at Nash Harbor on the northwestern end
of Nunivak Island, 48 days after leaving Seattle. Here at the small
native village of Kligachimiuny is located the Bureau school under
the able management of Mr. and Mrs. Irving H. Bird. Shortly after
our arrival at Nash Harbor, our party was increased to three by the
arrival of Mr. C. G. Harrold, Canadian ornithologist, who was col-
lecting for the California Academy of Sciences.

SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1927 153

Fic. 182.—Cape Etolin, northeast end of Nunivak Island, one of the two
small sections of the Island that are charted. This narrow peninsula, part
of which becomes an island at high tide, has its rocky surface partially
covered by sand dunes, on which in summer there is a rank growth of
grass. (Photograph by Collins.)

Fic. 183.—Nash Harbor, Nunivak Island: Miwolka and his wife patching
up the seal skin covering to his kayak. This type of kayak is typical of
the greater part of west and southwestern Alaska. (Photograph by Collins.)
154 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Fic. 184—C. G. Harrold standing in entrance of deserted house on Nunivak
Island. (Photograph by Stewart.)

Fic. 185.—Rock enclosed burials at deserted village, southwest end of
Nunivak Island. Rock vaults exactly similar to these were also found to
contain seal burials. (Photograph by Stewart.)
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1927 155

Nunivak Island is 70 miles long and about 45 miles wide, but there
are no dependable charts of its shores except for two restricted locali-
ties. The eastern and central parts of the island are rather flat except
for a few isolated mountains of no great height. To the west, however,
there is a gradual rise and the shore line is rugged and precipitous.

While very little was definitely known of them, the Nunivak Es-
kimo have long been regarded as the most primitive in this remote
region. This we found to be true. Women were found still wearing
the lip, ear and nose ornaments of beads and walrus ivory that were
given up years ago by the other Eskimo of western Alaska. The
elaborate observances and ceremonies relating to the hunting of the
seal and their social and religious life in general, furnish additional
evidence of the extreme conservatism of these people.

Our first work at Nash Harbor was to take measurements and
physiological observations on the natives. We then explored on foot
much of the western end of the Island, collecting bones and ethno-
logical material from several deserted villages and finally from the vil-
lage at Nash Harbor. Having completed the work at the western end
of Nunivak, we moved on to Amolowikimiut, a native village at Cape
Etolin some thirty miles to the east. Work here was continued as
before, and was greatly facilitated by the intelligent cooperation of
Mr. Paul Ivanoff, the native trader.

In August we left Nunivak, Mr. Stewart going to St. Michael with
the trader from Tanunuk village, Nelson Island, while I followed
shortly afterwards with the Ivanoff family. A stop was made at
Hooper Bay, a very interesting Eskimo village on the mainland be-
tween Nunivak and the Yukon, and additional collections and anthro-
pometric data were secured. From St. Michael the outward trip was
made up the Yukon to Nenana, and thence to the coast to Seward,
affording an opportunity to observe the Eskimo along the lower
Yukon and later the Athapascan Indians further up the river.

As a result of the summer’s work there were collected several
hundred skulls with numerous skeletons, while measurements were
taken of some 180 living Eskimo. The measurements on the living
are the first to be made in western Alaska, and these together with
the skeletal remains will furnish the first adequate knowledge of the
physical type of this little known region.

It would be impossible to mention the names of all to whom we

are indebted for assistance. Particular thanks, however, are due to

Dr. William Hamilton of the Alaska Division of the Bureau of Edu-
cation, Washington, D. C.; Mr. Jonathan H. Wagner, Chief of the

Il
150 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Division, Seattle; Mr. Carl Lomen of Nome and New York; Mr. E.
S. Curtis of Los Angeles; Capt. S. T. L. Whitlam and the crew of
the Boxer; Mr. E. J. Beck, Superintendent, Southwestern District,
Bureau of Education; Dr. Charles Firestone and others of the or-
phanage and hospital staff at Kanakanak ; Mr. Paul Ivanoff, Nunivak
Island; and Mr. and Mrs. Irving H. Bird, Mr. and Mrs. Leo W.
Schrammeck, Mr. and Mrs. Glenn Hall, and Mr. and Mrs. Mischa
Ivanoff, teachers at the various schools,
THE ARCHEOLOGY OF THE PIEDMONT REGION OF
SGU TE CAROEINA
3y J. WALTER FEWKES,
Chief, Bureau of American Ethnology

The eastern horizon or boundary of the Mound Builder Culture of
eastern North America has been very little investigated by archeolo-
gists and, in spite of the fact that it presents instructive local variations,
the character of that portion of it which extended east of the Blue
Ridge is but slightly known. The archeology of South Carolina has
a very limited bibliography, few contributions having been made
during the present century, although the aboriginal tribes of the State
were interesting and important. However, one or two local collections
not reproduced in any publication indicate that this is a promising
area for the field worker. I was induced to visit the Piedmont area
of this State in the summer of 1927 by letters from the owner of
one of these collections, Mr. W. J. Thackston of Greenville, and the
results of my preliminary investigations are here given. Mr. Thack-
ston called my attention to several other collections made by residents
of Greenville and was instrumental in obtaining permission for me
to study and photograph them and describe them in print. He accom-
panied me on excursions to study and compare the mounds and other
major antiquities of the region, but no excavations were undertaken,
such work being postponed until a time when more money would be
available.

The majority of the objects here shown are in the very valuable
collection of Mr. Charles F. Schwing of Greenville, who afforded me
every opportunity to study his specimens and publish a preliminary
description of them, and I take this occasion to thank him and Mr.
Thackston, as well as many others who expressed the greatest interest
in the investigations and aided me in the work. In fact the kindness
shown me on this visit made this one of the happiest months of the
many I have spent in archeological research. I returned to Wash-
ington in the closing days of the fiscal year with a strong desire to
continue my explorations at this point and pursue them at other places
east of the Alleghanies.

A fact that impressed me very strongly was that, while valuable col-
lections had been made in the Piedmont section, there is as yet no
attempt to correlate this material with corresponding material from

157
158 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

RS die or nage

D

Fic. 186.—A, Bowl with stamped decorations; B, bowl with stamped
decorations and circles around the rim; C, D, front and side views of
effigy bowl from bank of Savannah river. (Schwing Collection.) Similar to
specimens from middle Mississippi valley described by Holmes.
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1927 159

ee ioe Cc

Fic. 187.—A, Rectangular, flat-bottomed dishes with four legs and incised
decorations (Hertzog Collection) ; B, C, bowls with incised external decora-
tions, found in the Catawba country. The motives on B represent parts of
the Great Plumed Serpent. (Thackston Collection. )
160 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

the adjacent archeological culture areas. It would be highly desirable,
therefore, not only to gather more artifacts and locate more prehis-
toric sites east of the Blue Ridge but also to determine the relationship
of the Indians of this territory to other Mound Builders. The pre-
historic pipes and pottery contained in the above collections are charac-
teristic of the southern Mound Builders, particularly those of the
Gulf region. Their closest counterparts occur in the mounds of
Arkansas and Missouri. As a rule the pottery is not as varied as
that of the Pueblo Indians, mainly because none of it is painted. The
common types of vessels are unglazed globular food bowls with decora-
tions stamped in. Although the material thus far collected may not
be sufficient to enable the archeologist to determine the tribe to which
its makers belonged, it is probably akin to the productions of the
Cherokee or some Indians of the Muskhogean stock.

The human effigy vase shown in figure 186, C and D, is thought
to belong to the Middle Mississippi group, several specimens of
which were figured by Prof. Holmes (20th Ann. Rep., Bur. Amer.
I:thnol.). This one is of the same general character as others found
in sites near the eastern and western boundaries of the Middle
Mississippi group but rarely at intermediate points. It has passed
through several hands, but the story of its discovery is so definite
that there appears to be no reason to doubt it. According to this, it
was picked up by a boy at the foot of a low cliff on the left bank
of Savannah River not far from Augusta. The cliff had no doubt been
occupied by Indians and the vase washed out of it by the river. I was
not able to visit the locality myself but quote reliable informants. So
far as I am aware, this human effigy vase is the only one of its type
ever obtained from the Piedmont region of South Carolina. There is
no record of anything of the kind from the Ohio Valley mounds or
mounds on the Gulf coast, but Prof. Holmes has figured many from
Arkansas. The two sperical bowls in figure 186, 4 and B, bear incised
designs formed by stamping. They are almost identical with similar
objects from Weeden Mound near St. Petersburg, Florida, but their
marginal decorations are different from those with which I am
familiar on all stamped ware from that State. The row of raised
rings on the outer margin of B is an exceptional feature that has never
been noted on Mound Builder pottery of the stamped variety.

In figure 187, B and C, are represented two beautiful globular bowls
in the Thackston collection, supposed to be ancient Catawba ware.
It is reported that they were found near Catawba River, and thus there
is some support for the identification, but modern Catawba ware
differs considerably. Several tribes allied to the Catawba formerly
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1927 161

Fic. 188.—Pipes. A, Monitor pipe of stone, from side; 6, stone monitor
pipe with flat stem; C, unfinished bird pipe of stone with stem unperforated ;
D, lower surface of stone monitor pipe; /, bird pipe with representation
of human face in relief on one side of the stem; /’, clay pipe with conical
bowl in mouth of wolf. (Schwing Collection. )
162 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

lived in western South Carolina, but, until we have established the
characteristic pottery of each, it is not possible to refer the specimens
figured here to any one of them. Bowl C of the above figure has a
simple ring of incised dots equatorially placed, and B has an original
design of considerable complication covering the whole exterior. It
consists of incised grooves so arranged as to indicate several figures
which are partly decorative and partly conventionalized. The circle
with tripointed figure, shown at the left, is also found repeatedly, in
combination with serpent designs, in the decoration of Mound Builder
pottery. In several figures snake symbols may easily be traced. It
would appear that this vessel was used in some of the Sun-Serpent
ceremonies indicated in the Mound Builder ceramics of several tribes. -
A represents two pieces of partially fractured pottery in the Hertzog
collection. Their form is exceptional; both have similar deeply
grooved parallel markings on the exterior, and remnants of legs, a
feature rare in prehistoric American pottery. From the arrangement
of the markings it would appear that the maker intended to represent
some quadruped.

The clay and stone tobacco pipes of the Piedmont region suffer
little in comparison with those which have been found west of the
Blue Ridge and some of them are unique in their excellence. I do
not remember to have seen, or to have read of, a Mound Builder
pipe as good as that shown in figure 188, A, and it is well known that
in the technique of the “ platform” and “ monitor ” pipes the Mound
Builders excelled. Their productions in this line are among the best
examples of prehistoric American stone work. Some authors have
questioned the antiquity of the bird pipes of the Mound Builders,
but a careful study of the works of those who have done so and of
the examples of these objects in the Greenville collections leaves no
doubt in my mind that they are purely aboriginal and were not made
by white men for the Indian trade. The unfinished “ bird pipe” in
figure 188, C, is very significant in this connection. It is a fine stone
pipe in which the bowl has not been hollowed out or the stem
perforated.

The occurrence of stone bird pipes in the eastern Mound Builder
area proves that they were the occasion for long journeys or passed
long distances in trade, and I am reminded of a stone bird pipe from
Turks Island figured by Rudolf Cronau in his book on America,
which is so close to one from South Carolina shown here as to indi-
cate that it was probably brought to the West Indies from the
continent.
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1927 163

&
Be
.
f,
$
ie
ar
¥

CRRRY

Fic. 189.—A, Two small pendants and side view of small bowl; B, three

conical stone objects of unknown use; C, six stone objects, highly polished,
resembling chunkey stones (used in popular game played among tribes of
Gulf area) but hollowed on only one side, and one small clay bowl. (Schwing

Collection. )
164 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Our knowledge of the Indians who inhabited the Piedmont area
of South Carolina is imperfect, derived mainly from the writings of
a few travelers and traders whose observations were made between
two hundred and three hundred years ago, and they afford us little
information regarding the culture of the people. The artifacts here
figured are the same as those found in the Mississippi Valley belonging
to the so called Mound Builder culture, the most highly developed in
North America north of Mexico, and the recognition of their affinity
is most important. If the people who made them may be classed with
the Mound Builders, they were no longer mere hunters and fishers
but had in fact reached the agricultural stage. They constituted a
marginal area of that great mound building culture, which, in prehis-
toric times, was one of the highest and most widely extended in North
America, and to a knowledge of this a more extensive examination

Fic. 189a.—Tugala Creek, Piedmont region of South Carolina.
Small globula vase luted to lip of a larger.

of these and similar objects will vastly contribute. No addition to
our knowledge of the Mound Builders from documentary sources ts,
of course, to be looked for, and we must therefore rely upon archeo-
logical investigation to add new pages to our limited knowledge of
them and through them to our knowledge of prehistoric man in
America. There are numerous mounds of considerable size in the
region we are discussing which demand investigation and many more
artifacts may undoubtedly be obtained from them. It is highly im-
probable that these mounds were made by the Indians found in
possession when the country was first visited by white men. They are
rather to be attributed to stocks related to those of the Mississippi
Valley which, from causes unknown, had drifted eastward in pre-
historic times. Only the archeologist can solve the problem which
these mysterious people present—the Mound Builders of the Pied-
mont, whose nearest relatives were the better known Mound Builders
of the Mississippi Valley.

ole EA SIGE MAKER VIE EAGE OF THE SOUTHWEST

By FRANK Ho EE ROBERTS, JR;
Archeologist, Bureau of American Ethnology

The remains of a village erected during the late Basket Maker
period were excavated by the writer in the Chaco Canyon, New
Mexico, during the summer of 1927, to obtain much-needed infor-
mation on a little-known phase of prehistoric southwestern archeology.
The site is located on top of the mesa which forms the southern wall
of the canyon nine miles east of the great ruins of Pueblos Bonito and
Chettro Kettle. Originally the village consisted of 18 houses, a large
circular ceremonial room or kiva, and 48 storage bins (fig. 190).

Prehistoric sedentary cultures in the southwest have been grouped
into two divisions called Basket Maker and Pueblo, the latter including
the cliff-dwellers. The Basket Maker group, which is the older, has
three subdivisions and the Pueblo has five. It was towards the end
of the third phase of the Basket Maker era that the village in the
Chaco Canyon was built and inhabited. Intervening between its
abandonment and decay and the present day was the whole Pueblo
cycle.

During the Basket Maker III period, frequently called the Post-
3asket Maker, the crude one-room domiciles which the people erected
to shield themselves from the vagaries of the weather were generally
located on mesa tops and along the upper ledges of canyon walls, 1f a
large natural cavern was not available. The houses were indeed primi-
tive. They consisted of an oval or rectangular excavation roofed over
with a pole, brush, and plaster superstructure. The earth walls of the
excavation were covered with thick plaster made from adobe or were
lined with large stone slabs (fig. 192). In the latter case, the plaster
was applied to the faces of the slabs. our posts set in the floor about
two feet from the corners of the room supported the superstructure.
These posts carried a rectangular framework against which were
placed the upper ends of small poles, the lower ends of which were
embedded in the earth around the periphery of the excavation. These
small poles formed the sloping, upper walls of the house. The rec-
tangular space at the top probably had a flat roof with an opening in
the center to serve as a smoke hole, possibly on occasions as an
entrance. The entire wooden structure was then covered with twigs,
bark, and plaster (fig. 191).

165
166 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Nv ay
t
NS
=~
a: af

6
Ge
‘\
oH ¢ ¢ iT)
Hy) Su SEB
ee HOU.
mee
oO
a ( 16 m8 »
V4 9 SS i Ss =
i ‘e TG HOUSE D
/ KIVA \ 8 ;
\ © < } 7 >=
NS eee
N Das, HOUSE E
—™
Cy ke Ov
pe \/ oN
B - (OUSE F
x”
25Q) HOUSES
a Nes
hes
WO és) (2 wouse
O : HOUSE H HOUSE! Vee. i
OC Oo Ay,
32 3) @ : Re
30 ze
29
(
one S
HOUSER * 2 —
(ue i
Oa:
35 d os HOUSE N
38 He) ~\7
C)* Houser
N“
4 rx
J °.
(.) W8use 0
@ ;
8 eo"
C é
i us ~
se (ay HOUSE p a)

45
Fic. 190.—Plan of Late Basket Maker village in Chaco Canyon. Numerals
denote storage bins.

SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1927 167

Little remained of the interior furnishings. In the center of each
room was a rectangular or circular firepit. A few inches from the
firepit was a small circular hole in the floor which is possibly anal-
ogous to the sipapu of later day kivas. The latter symbolizes the
mythical place of emergence through which the present Pueblo Indians
believe their ancestors passed on their journey from the underworld
to the surface of the earth. In the days when the Chaco village was
inhabited, each dwelling may have had its own shrine, whereas in
following periods it was deemed essential only to the ceremonial house.
Other small holes in the plastered floor no doubt served as storage
places for small objects. In many of the houses a row of upright slabs

Fic. 191.—Probable method of house construction, a, ante-chamber; b,
passage; c, deflector; d, support posts; e, smoke hole; f, firepit; g, sipapu;
h, small storage pit; 7, plastered covering on superstructure.

formed a bin-like compartment on the side in which the doorway
was located (fig. 193). There was generally an opening in the center
of this row of slabs immediately in front of the doorway. Associated
with this was an upright slab set in the floor between the doorway
and the firepit. The latter, like the deflector in kivas, would prevent
cold air from rushing through the opening and directly onto the fire.

Most of the houses appeared to have had an entry-way on the
south or southeast side. The doorway of the main room gave access
into a short passage which in turn opened into an oval room. The
latter was roofed in much the same fashion as the dwelling except
that there were no interior supporting posts. Because of its smaller
size the sloping side poles would carry the weight of the superstruc-
ture without additional aid. They probably met at the center, giving
a conical shape to the covering. The ante-chamber of these domiciles
108 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

is suggestive of the entry-ways in earth lodges built by modern Indians,
by the Eskimo, and even by the Palae-Asiatic peoples.

The dimensions of the main room of the houses averaged 12 by 14
feet, and the excavation was three feet deep. The angle of the small
post holes around the periphery indicated that the ceiling of the flat
portion of the superstructure had been about six feet above the floor.

A striking and somewhat unexpected feature of the village was the
large circular enclosure which appears to have been a kiva. As in the
houses, slabs were used extensively in its construction. Large flat

Fic. 192.—Typical house remains, illustrating use of stone slabs in lining
the excavation. Post holes and firepit shown in floor of room. Ante-chamber
beyond doorway in center of slab wall.

stones lined the periphery of the excavation and the facing of the en-
circling bench was of the same material (fig. 194). The space between
the two rows of slabs was filled with adobe mortar and stone spalls.
On top of the bench was a smooth hard coating of plaster. The roof
was supported on four large posts and no doubt was of the same type
of construction as in the houses. There was a rectangular firepit near
the center of the room but no “ sipapu”’ in evidence. Set in the floor
between the firepit and the south side of the room was the broken
end of a large stone slab, the deflector. There did not appear to have
been an ante-chamber on the southern side and the entrance to the
structure was probably through the roof.

SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1927 169

Fic. 193.—Remains of compartment formed by placing a number of up-
right stone slabs across one side of room. Doorway and deflector slab at
left center of picture. Firepit in the right foreground.

Fic. 194.—View of Kiva showing use of slabs in face of bench and outer wall
of structure. Burned timbers on floor are the remains of roofing.
70 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Fic. 195.—Typical Late Basket Maker bowls. Diameters from left to right,
14 inches, 8 inches, 6 inches.

42

Fic. 196.—Various kinds of bone implements used by Late Basket Makers.
Largest implement is 10 inches long.

SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1927 171

Fic. 197.—Characteristic decorations from bowl interiors. Pigment in all
cases tended to a brownish black.

I2
172 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

The diameter of the outer circle of slabs was 40 feet, and the inner,
the face of the bench, averaged 36 feet. It is possible that in this struc-
ture is to be seen the predecessor of the great kivas of the Chaco
pueblo cultures.

Bins in which was stored the corn, raised on the canyon floor below,
were simple in form and were constructed in the same fashion as
the dwellings. They differed, however, in that no interior support
poles were used in the construction of the roof. The latter, like the
ante-chamber coverings, was no doubt cone-shaped. The circular
or oval pit averaged about six feet in diameter and three feet in
depth.

Pottery found at this village was crude compared to that of the
following pueblo periods (fig. 195). Characteristic forms were full-
bodied jars with constricted, bottle-neck openings ; full-bodied vessels
with wide orifices ; globular-shaped pots with a small opening at the
top ; pitchers ; bowls; and ladles. There were no corrugated pieces of
the type commonly found in pueblo ruins. The surface finish on the
vessels is rather rough. The general color is a grayish to brownish
white. Ornamentation of the wares was confined to painted decora-
tions on bowl and ladle interiors. The designs were simple and in
general are highly suggestive of the basketry of the preceding period
(fig. 197). The pigment is a brownish black in color.

There was a great variety of bone implements, needles, awls,
scrapers, and hair-pins in the material from the houses (fig. 196).
Stone objects were chiefly in the form of metates, manos, mauls,
scrapers, knives, and a few arrowheads. The bow and arrow was just
coming into use at the end of this period.

The village had no definite cemetery. The dead were interred
wherever it was found convenient to scoop out a shallow grave. In
practically all cases the body had been placed on its back, head to the
west, face to the north, with the knees flexed. Only three of the burials
had accompanying mortuary offerings. The absence of grave furniture
does not necessarily imply that the dead were buried without the
usual offerings of food and water to sustain the spirit in its journey
to the great beyond. At that stage in southwestern development, when
pottery was just beginning to be used, baskets were the main con-
tainers, and it is probable that the funerary deposits were of materials
which long since have crumbled into dust.

THE MISSION INDIANS OF CALIFORNIA

By J. P. HARRINGTON,
Ethnologist, Bureau of American Ethnology

The Presidio of Santa Barbara has been founded only 155 years,
the Santa Barbara Mission, only 141 years. Yet this brief period
has seen two distinct forms of European civilization sweep over the
fertile lands of the valley of Santa Barbara, a Spanish and an Ameri-
can culture, each with its peculiar institutions, language, and details
of life. Only sierra and sea still have the appearance which they
presented in Indian times, and in the valley perhaps a few oak trees
or hillside boulders which have escaped molestation ; but not a trace
is left above ground of the intricate native civilization, the Indian
mode of life, which seemed up to the beginning of this foreign period
so stable and natural and so conducive to health and longevity that
the native people never dreamed that any other mode of living was
possible.

For the purpose of obtaining further important information on the
ancient languages and customs of this region, the writer was sent to
the field at the close of October, 1927, and continued his field studies
until the end of the year, obtaining a large mass of information linguis-
tically correct and in part new, in part corroborative of information
obtained in previous years regarding the ancient culture. Working
with the poor last survivors, and these too young to know many things
except by hearsay difficult of interpretation, the great task has been
correctly to supply the details of the former culture, and this is im-
possible of accomplishment except through an exhaustive analysis of
the language. Much was learned however, from reliable Indian infor-
mants, of the native customs and mode of life of the Mission Indians
of former days.

It was the ideal of these Indians to go about in the lightest costume
possible. Their children were in and out of the water all day long,
and the men and many of the women were expert swimmers. Children
and adults rarely if ever caught cold and attained an excellent mus-
cular development. They were a race of runners, swimmers, hunters,
and fishers. The only clothing prescribed was a petticoat for the
women. Warm blankets sewed or woven of skins were at hand for
those who cared to wear them.

173
174 SMITHSONIAN

INSTITUTION

beard said to

ing

have been worn by some men in ancient times.

Fic. 199—Ramon Gamez, show

Fic. 198.—Luisa.

SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1927 175

Men frequently wore the hair in a pug on the front of the head,
standing up in Goddess of Liberty fashion, and the women wore bangs.
A wig of Chinese hair was found very useful by the writer in studying
hair dressing. All the effect of a kaiser moustache was given by a
bar of shell inserted through the nose of the men. Face and body hairs
were plucked out, using clam shells as tweezers.

The Indian family would rise at daylight and take a plunge in the
nearest water. After a light breakfast they were off for the adven-
tures of the day. The men would go hunting or fishing or visiting
around on business that seemed as important to them as ours does
to us, the women in quest of seeds, roots, greens, basketry materials.
There was much lunching or munching all day long. The meal of
the day was when the people had returned to camp in the evening.
The staple food was acorn mush, along with a great variety of other
natural products, many of them delicious, prepared by peculiar proc-
esses. Sometimes a midnight lunch was eaten, especially in the long
winter nights.

The principle of the Turkish bath was known to these Indians. In
a lodge that could be shut up tightly, either dug into a cliff or built
semi-subterranean fashion with entrance at the top, a hot fire was
kindled with light wood. After the bathers had become very warm in
these lodges, they suddenly emerged and ran, often with shouts, to
near-by water and plunged in, and after splashing about for a time,
reentered the bath lodge to become dry and warm again.

The Indians were a proud people, alert and shrewd, and carried an
age of eighty or ninety years much more lightly than white people do.
There are authentic records of extreme age among these Indians.
Even when lounging about camp, they were taught to be alert, and to
maintain such positions that they could spring to their feet in an
instant.

The houses were shaped like a half orange, and were constructed
of a framework of willow or sycamore poles, thatched with tule, car-
rizo, brakes, or other material at hand. There was a low door, and
some huts had holes for windows. With a sharp stick one could
poke through the wall of the hut, and mischievous boys sometimes
tried this trick on the unsuspecting inmates. A rancheria or village
consisted of a group of a few of these houses, usually arranged in
chance rows. Each rancheria had a captain, distinguished in no way,
as far as dress or appearance went, from an ordinary Indian. He
arranged fiestas with other chiefs, gave advice in many matters, but
the whole social organization was most simple and democratic. There
were no slaves.
6 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Fic. 201.—Showing locality of the burial cache, southeast of the Alexander
ranchhouse at what was formerly Los Prietos rancheria.
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1927 iG

Fic. 202.—Pounding acorn kernels for the preparation of the mush which
was the daily food.

CPL

Fic. 203.—Seeds of Calandrinia caulescens, var. Menziesii Gray, sprinkled
as holy water into the cache at the Alexander ranch and preserved through
all the intervening years. Identification by Miss Helen H. Henry, Bureau of
Plant Industry, through the kindness of Dr. W. R. Maxon.

ae x eee . joa
Re ea ek ery 2 sof < =
bee ee

haaiaa Hagar ne i

Fic. 204.—Saucer-like bowls of black and green steatite, E. W. Alexander
ranch.
178 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Special attention was given by the writer to the study of the manu-
factures of these people, so few of which are known except from
excavated remains. Roughly speaking, stone, bone, and shell have
survived in the ground, and all else has perished, except by the rarest
coincidence. The nicety of the objects manufactured by these people
called forth admiration in the diaries of early explorers. Considerable
variation existed in the materials and methods of use of utensils and
regalia.

The placenames contained in the Diario of Fr. José Maria Zalvidea,
1806, were deciphered from the original manuscript in the Santa
Barbara Mission archives with the collaboration of my friend, Fr.
Zephyrin Engelhardt, the historian of the Missions, the corrected list
standing as follows: Jonatas, Saca, Olomosoug, Gecp, Jalihuilimit,
Lisahua, Cuia, Siguicon, Sgene, Malapoa, Napolea, Sisupistu, Tupai,
Tacui, Yaguelame, Majagua, Taslupi, Castegue, Atongai, Guapiabit,
Guapia, Moscopiabit, Guapiana. The correct reading of several of
these names is important, for they have hitherto been quoted in incor-
rect form.

At the special request of the Chief of the Bureau of American Eth-
nology, a study was made of the finds recently made at the E. W.
Alexander Ranch near Santa Barbara. A large number of objects
were unearthed by chance in the orchard of Mr. Alexander at the site
of the former Los Prietos rancheria. It was a burial cache only a few
feet in diameter, very likely made when the rancheria was abandoned.
Through the courtesy of Mr. Alexander, black and green steatite
dishes of saucerlike size and thinness were examined; also a round-
ended and a straight-ended arrow-straightener, both beautifully made
of black steatite. A pipe of black steatite contained Calandrinia seeds
which had evidently been thrown into the grave as a votive offering,
as was the custom. A symmetrical black flint spearhead measures five
inches in length. There is a perfectly preserved abalone gorget, and
a quartz crystal such as was used as a pendant on the breast or to
surmount a ceremonial staff of wood or bone. The display of pecked
sandstone mortars is only rivalled by the great steatite boiling pots,
which were used for boiling acorn mush and other foods. Food never
burned in the latter, and one of them would be handed down in a
family for generations. Six of these great pots were inspected, all
as new looking as if taken fresh from the fire, sooted on the bottom
and glistening gray in appearance.

One of the interesting sites in this region is known as the piedra
medidora. If a person who cannot squeeze through this cleft in a
rock suddenly finds that he can pass through, it is a bad omen and
portends a sudden death.

LANGUAGE STUDIES AMONG THE FOX AND
NORTHERN ARAPAHO INDIANS

By TRUMAN MICHELSON,
Ethnologist, Bureau of American Ethnology

In continuance of many seasons of field researches on the language
and ethnology of the Fox Indians, I left Washington towards the close
of May, 1927, for Tama, Iowa, where a Fox settlement is located.
The Foxes at Tama have preserved their language in pure form, af-
fording unusual opportunity not only for a study of the language
itself, but for a clearer understanding of their myths and ceremonies.

A few days were spent at Chicago en route in measuring the Siksika
skulls in the Field Museum, and in studying the distribution of designs
on Indian medicine bags. From the measurements, it developed that
the Siksika crania have fully as low a vault as the Sioux proper—in
sharp contrast with other Algonquian tribes. In the study of the fiber
bags it appeared that the combination of the Thunder bird and Panther
on woven bags has a wider distribution than heretofore thought, but
the belief that the Thunder bird always is associated with the Pan-
ther—although not necessarily the reverse—apparently holds true.

At Tama, it was evident that the Foxes had changed but little in
the past year. When I first began my studies in 1911, only a small
fraction of the tribe lived in shacks or frame houses, the rest dwelling
in bark-houses in the summer and wigwams of rush in the winter ;
but now, although bark-houses with planks substituted for bark on
the sides and roofing may still be seen, wigwams are rapidly disap-
pearing. Most of the season’s work was devoted to restoring phoneti-
cally accounts of various Fox ceremonies written by Foxes in the cur-
rent syllabic script, and in acquiring new ethnological data in this
script. It may be explained that this script is in syllables and evidently
is based upon our ordinary script. When and how this system of
writing arose is not known, but all Foxes use it with great fluency,
and frequently write to the Sauks of Oklahoma in it, for although
the languages of the Foxes and Sauks are not the same, they are so
similar as to be mutually intelligible.

The texts restored phonetically related to the gens festivals con-
nected with the sacred packs, a number of which are owned by each

179
INSTITUTION

SMITHSONIAN

180

‘uol}eIIUIpe sjadui0d UMOYS
J[EYS Jeormeysout 9Y4} : sultooulsua JO Jeoy UPoUl
ou SI 2JOd SI} JOo19 AT[N}Jssaoons OF, (‘UOSTIYIITY
kq ydeiso0j}oyg) ‘9261 ‘aoueq] ung oyedery Ua
-YJAION 9} ye ajod-19}U99 94} SUISIEY— ‘90~ “OI

“S}JURPUIIOJUI 9AT}EU AG UdATS S}UDAD SUL{OIYO Ul
poesn st pue ‘sule[q }ea14) 94} JO SUeIpUuy UO UOTssoiduIt
daap & IPEU SIOMOYS IIIOI}JIWI VY, “ELYI ‘TaquUIsAON, ST O}
Ppettoyjol oui oy ,, [Jey sires 94} UsyM AOq PoszIS poos
B,, SBM VdRF-IeIG (‘OIOI ‘uOsfaysIpY Aq Ydessoj,0Yq )

”

‘oyedeiy UsyJION poseadop eB ‘o9deJ-1eIS—'SOz “DIY

SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1927 181

ome ih a
SR ato

Fic. 207.—Northern Arapaho Sun Dance, 1926. (Photograph by Michel-
son.) The Southern Arapaho Sun Dance has been thoroughly described by
Dr. George A. Dorsey. The Northern Arapaho are much more conservative
than the Southern Arapaho; and the tribal sacred pipe is with the former.
For years after the government forbade tortures in the Sun Dance members
of the Northern Arapaho went to the forest, put skewers through their
flesh, attached leather-thongs, and fastened these to trees while they wailed
and danced—all in secret.

Fic. 208.—Fox building made of elm-bark, Tama, Iowa. (Photograph by
Michelson.) Buildings of this kind are rapidly disappearing and will soon be a

thing of the past. This building is one of the finest ever seen by Dr.
Michelson.
182 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

gens. By use of these packs one could cause the foe to stand hypno-
tized in battle and thus be easily slain. In summer, feasting and
dancing are connected with religious worship, but in winter there
is no dancing. Features of the summer festivals are the four
dances, the ceremonial eating of dog meat, and a prayer to the Spirit
of Fire and He Who Lies With His Face In The Smoke-Hole
(i. e., the sky) that they correctly inform the particular manitou who,
when bestowing a blessing, commanded the festival to be observed,
that worship is being held. Descriptions of these festivals may be
found in the 4oth Annual Report and Bulletin 85 of the Bureau of
American Ethnology.

On July 22, I left for Fort Washakie, Wyoming, to renew my
researches among the Northern Arapaho. Through the courtesy of
both the Superintendent and Principal, I lodged at the Shoshone
Boarding School. The work here consisted chiefly of a study of the
Arapaho language. Although it is known that Arapaho is Algonquian
in stock, it is very aberrant. I worked out a number of very intricate
sound shifts, whereby a larger proportion of the Arapaho words was
shown to be Algonquian than hitherto suspected, and a few additional
grammatical features were discovered to be Algonquian. Neverthe-
less a large part of the vocabulary apparently is not Algonquian 1n
origin, and the source of this is still unknown. Incidentally I wit-
nessed the Shoshone Sun Dance (the Northern Arapaho held none
last summer ; fortunately | saw the Sun Dances of both the Northern
Arapaho and Shoshone in the previous season), and measured quite
a number of Arapahoes and Shoshones. The study of these anthropo-
metric measurements has not yet been completed, but the cephalic
index of my series of Shoshones is quite comparable to that obtained
under the direction of Dr. Boas more than twenty years ago. The
work unfortunately was interrupted by the appearance of two motion
picture companies. Of course I could not compete with the wages
they offered the Indians, and moreover, all the Indians wished to
see the pictures “ shot ” even though only a few hundred took actual
part in them. I therefore judged it best to postpone my studies to a
more favorable time, and so began my journey eastward, arriving in
Washington September 1.
MUSIC OF THE WINNEBAGO INDIANS
By FRANCES DENSMORE

In the furtherance of her researches on the music of the American
Indians, the writer went to Wisconsin in October, 1927, to study the
music of the Winnebago. A study of Menominee songs had demon-
strated their resemblance to the songs of the related Chippewa tribe,
and one purpose of the present undertaking was to ascertain whether
the songs of the Winnebago resembled those of the related Sioux
or the neighboring Chippewa tribes.

The first locality visited was Black River Falls. An autumn cere-
mony had recently been held about 10 miles from that town, and the
first call was made upon the man who had charge of the ceremony.
He is a conservative old man, known as Frank Mike, and is the
owner of the morning star bundle. His home was a considerable
distance from a traveled road, and near his house stood the frame-
work of the long lodge where the ceremony had been held, this
being similar to the medicine lodge of the Chippewa and Menominee.
Adjoining this was the frame of a sweat lodge, and back of it was
a structure of heavy poles from which were suspended hooks for
hanging kettles over the fire, this being the cooking-place used during
the ceremony. It is interesting to note that the hooks were made
of two crotched sticks firmly fastened together with wire, one crotch
being over the horizontal pole while the other crotch, hanging down-
ward, formed the hook for the kettle. Beyond the cooking-place were
the frames of several lodges intended for the use of visitors. Near
the ceremonial lodge stood a small tree around which the grass was
trodden in a circle about eight feet in diameter. This circle had been
made by the feet of men and women who recently danced the scalp
dance, the tree representing the pole on which scalps were formerly
hung. The dance had continued all night.

In two long conferences with Frank Mike, the work of preserving
Indian songs was explained. He was reluctant to sing without con-
sulting the other bundle-owners, but his songs can probably be ob-
tained at a subsequent time. Calls were made, with an interpreter,
on Indians living over a radius of about 20 miles, but no recording
was done in this locality. Two Indians had, however, been favorably

183
184 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Fic. 2090.—Peak near camp of Thunder families, known as Sheep’s Hill
among the Indians because of a tradition that mountain sheep were formerly
seen on its summit.

Fic. 210—Home of David Little Soldier in which Winnebago songs were
recorded. (Photograph by Miss Densmore.) ~«
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1927

(aroursuaq ssipy Aq ydessojoyg) ‘Jojo1d
-19jUL pue Josuis OSseqouulAA ‘Jopunyy,, wyof—ziz “S14

(‘alousuaq sstjy Aq ydessojoyd )
‘IQSUIS OSEQOUUI AA ‘JOIP[OS af} plaeq— ld ‘dl

186 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

impressed and said that if the work were transferred to a place near
their home, they would be willing to sing. These Indians are sons
of a prominent Winnebago of former times, named Thunder, and
they live in what may be called a permanent camp, about five miles
south of Galesville, Wisconsin. The writer then proceeded to Gales-
ville and went to their camp each day, obtaining many songs there
and from a Winnebago living at Trempeleau, a village about 10 miles
southwest of Galesville, on the Mississippi River. The dwellings of
the Thunder family are near the battlefield on which the Winnebago
fought a notable battle with the Sioux. The house in which the songs
were recorded is shown in figure 210, and figure 209 shows an eleva-
tion near the camp which is known as “‘ Sheep’s Hill.”

The songs that belong to distinctively Winnebago feasts and cere-
monies were the object of special research. The War-bundle feast,
held in midwinter, is such a ceremony and 25 of its songs were re-
corded, including songs of the thunderbird bundle and the bear,
morning star, and spirits of the night bundles. Other distinctively
Winnebago groups are the songs of the Buffalo dance, held in the
spring, and the songs of the Heruka. Numerous songs of both classes
were obtained, the Heruka songs being recorded by David Little
Soldier (fig. 211), a son-in-law of Thunder. The Heruka were said
to be “bow and arrow spirits,” resembling Indians in appearance
but small in stature and living in high mountains. Their songs were
concerning the power of their bows and arrows, and it was said that
they taught the use of these weapons to the Indians.

The customs pertaining to the use of music in the treatment of the
sick were found to be similar to those in other tribes, a doctor receiving
songs in his dreams and believing that his power was increased if
someone joined him in singing the songs. Thunder dreamed of the
Day and of a white buffalo, and the songs used by him in treating
the sick were recorded by two of his sons, one of whom, John Thunder
(fig. 212), acted as interpreter for the entire work. Another important
group of healing songs belonged to the grandfather of John Henry,
living at Trempeleau, Wisconsin, who recorded them, and also trans-
ferred to the writer a bone whistle blown by his grandfather when
singing for the sick. The whistle is made of a wingbone of a wild
swan and is etched with figures of a turtle, a deer, a medicine lodge
and other symbols of his dreams and his power. Two tones, slightly
different in pitch, were obtained by a peculiar manner of blowing the
whistle, these tones being recorded together with the songs.
CO
NI

SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1927 I

hice oe.

Fic. 213—Tom Thunder, Winnebago singer. (Photograph by
Miss Densmore. )
188 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Tom Thunder (fig. 213) recorded a song that was “ dreamed by
his grandfather,” this song containing the words, “ Everyone should
wake before the sun rises.’ An interesting group of songs was said
to have come, in a dream, from four spirits that live in the water at
the Dalles of the Wisconsin River. Many recorded songs were
connected with the warriors of former times, including Green
Cloud’s song with the words “In all the tribes I do not find such a
man as I am” ; Part Wolf’s songs of victory over the Sioux, and
the song of Standing White Cloud, who wept because he arrived after
a battle was finished. A group of interesting modern songs was com-
posed in France by members of the tribe who were serving in the
World War. Songs of the moccasin game were recorded, and data
on the general customs of the tribe were obtained. The storing of
food for the winter was in progress and the drying of squash was
seen and photographed, the squash being cut in circles and strung on
wires. Baskets were also being made from the wood of the black
ash trees, by a process said to have been received by a woman in a
dream.

A group of effigy mounds in the vicinity of Thunder’s camp was
visited and photographed. It was said these mounds were made by
Winnebago, each mound in the shape of a man’s “ dream-animal,”’
and that these mounds were refuges in time of war. This informa-
tion was given by members of the Thunder family and was corrobo-
rated by the Winnebago living at Trempeleau. All agreed that there
was a “ dugout ” under each mound, some being of considerable size,
and that provisions were placed in them so that a man could remain in
hiding for some time. The opening was disguised, and this was
“a way by which a man’s dream-animal protected him.” The effigy
mounds were eight in number, representing various animals, the
largest being 108 feet long and about 2} feet high.
SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

EXPLORATIONS AND FIELD-WORK OF THE
SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION
IN 1928

(PUBLICATION 3011) _

CITY OF WASHINGTON
PUBLISHED BY THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION
1929

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

EXPLORATIONS AND FIELD-WORK OF THE
SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION
IN 1928

(PUBLICATION 3011)

CITY OF WASHINGTON
PUBLISHED BY THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION
1929
Tbe Lord Wattimore Press

BALTIMORE, MD., U. S. A.

’

PREFACE

Field exploration provides an indispensable tool in the scientist’s
efforts to increase knowledge. Many parts of the face of the earth
are yet but imperfectly known to science, and even in those parts
supposedly well-known, intensive field investigations continue to bring
to light new facts and new specimens of importance to a full knowl-
edge of the earth and its life. In the attempt to aid in expanding the
boundaries of that knowledge, particularly in the fields of geology,

>

biology, and anthropology, there go out each year from the Smith-
sonian Institution numerous expeditions, not only to many parts of
our own country, but to the far corners of the earth—China, Africa,
Labrador, and the islands of the sea. Observations are made in the
field, and hundreds of thousands of specimens are brought back to
Washington for later study at the Institution.

The scientific results of these expeditions are published eventually
in the various technical series issued by the Institution ; the present
pamphlet serves as a preliminary announcement, by word and picture,
of the aims and scope of Smithsonian efforts in field exploration
during 1928.

WepP> irun,

Editor, Smithsonian Institution.
CONT ENAS

PAGE
AN, (Co G. Sinchpime doe Syoum eh! Sivas, socehoccpucuaoccccue cnc doeac I
Bartsch, Paul. Explorations for Mollusks in Cuba under the Walter
Ravenbome Bacon Scholars, soccaéacbosoocrsoodauenbou0cpeaboavobe fil
Bartsch, Paul. The Cerion Breeding Experiments at the Tortugas........ 83
Bishop @a W. Axcheologieal sieldsWork in) China... 3.0.0.0 sss cees 133
Brown, W. L. The Beach Anglo-Egyptian Sudan Expedition............. 63
Clark, Austin H. The Butterflies of the District of Columbia............ IOI

Collins, Henry B., Jr. The Ancient Eskimo Culture of Northwestern
INVES ied ASS arbor C SeGtia Gn Hn Sie Che ont oie Oe aoa Ga CAMO ol MRT I TA

Collins, Henry B., Jr. The “ Lost ” Calusa Indians of Southwestern Florida. I51

Cushman, R. A. Bringing to America the Baker Collection of Malayan

TSS Ras hae as ai ite ER UBESIE Clune cte eerie pean ees yer metr Sr Caemete oi0-c Ol

Densmore, Frances. Music of the Winnebago and Menominee Indians of

AVAVGKSeGharSrba DA aeaii > haar Cmts Amara ts See Penne oe Ue a Mr in EAU RMMME: Bcc 189
Gidley, J. W. Further Study of the Problem of Early Man in Florida.... 13
Gilmore; Charles, Wy Eluntines Dinosaurs in) Montana: 32h. ss. sme one Gy)

Harrington, J. P. Studying the Mission Indians of California and the Taos

Olt INSP INES a iors. 6 cits tant aan Go oie bio. ono cre Gea reinin ceed eet o'o caeieworties: Olen. 169
Hewitt, J. N. B. The Culture of the Indians of Eastern Canada........... 179
Hitchcock, A. S. Collecting Grasses in Newfoundland and Labrador...... 12
ids Ie, -AmBurtal(Cavetin Kentucky... cr.. <& le ceteris -iscemr oo reise: 157
Kellogg, Remington, Extinct Ocean-Living Animals from Maryland...... 27

Krieger, Herbert W. (See Miller, Gerrit S., Jr.)

Maloney, James O. Further Observations on the Natural History of the
Norin Silene ou Wine (Grol? opt Sit, ILenarteneten co oocogoeonccanduacucodc00 89
Maxon, William R. Studying Ferns in European Herbaria................ 109
Merrill, George P. A Visit to the Mineral-Producing Regions of New
[Eviyaleticl” ais hele aooo to He COURT HER. Ac Geen oe OOO toro cin crmcine acre no 5
Michelson, Truman. Algonquian Indian Tribes of Oklahoma and Iowa.... 183

Miller, Gerrit S., Jr., and Krieger, Herbert W. Expedition to Samana
Praononce, IDXormbancayn, INCGowIhie, goocccsnnccaccsoqudndodoutanogen doo8s 43

Poole, Arthur J. Hurthers Exploration of Haitian Caves... ... 0.0.0... = 55

Resser, C. E. Cambrian Geology of the Rocky Mountains................ 21
vi CONTENTS

PAGE
Richmond, Charles W. Explorations of the Rev. David C. Graham in

Westerns (Glinay i se teeter. tees, aul cine Cer coecen: Oe aa eee ease eee 33
Roberts, Frank H. H., Jr. Certain Early Pueblo Villages in Southwestern

(Ce osee Valo arent Pee ee Oar tacos 6 Abc dando oes ren 161
Schmitt, Waldo L., and Shoemaker, Clarence R. The Crustacea of Beau-

LOT eNOEtMI Carolina mee ce sock tee ties Scene oe ne ee ee 85
Shoemaker, Clarence R. (See Schmitt, Waldo L.)
Standleys Pauli: Botanical) Exploration im londinas sass. see eee 115

Swallen, Jason R. Collecting Grasses in the Soutlwest................... 1209
Fic. t.—The 100-inch telescope, Mount Wilson Observatory, where the fly-wing radiometer was used.
SU DNINGS LES SUN AND SPARS
ByeGeG. ABBOT,

Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, and Director of the
Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory

It will be recalled that the Smithsonian Institution has two obser-
vatories, one in Chile and the other in Southern California, making
daily measurements of the intensity of the sun’s rays, on which all
life depends. The Institution also administers the similar solar ob-
serving station of the National Geographic Society in South West
Africa. These three observatories, situated on mountain tops in desert
localities, have cooperated for several years in observing the solar
rays on nearly every day.

As anticipated a year ago from a study of regular periodicities
recently discovered in the variation of the intensity of the sun’s rays,
the solar radiation rose to a feeble maximum in the spring months, and
declined to a marked minimum in the autumn of 1928. Should these
observed periodicities continue to prevail in solar radiation, it may be-
come possible soon to forecast the general march of the sun’s energy
for a year or more in advance, and also to forecast such climatic or
other terrestrial concerns as may be shown conclusively to depend
thereon. Short-interval irregular solar variations also seem to occur,
but in a manner not predictable. The daily results of solar radiation
measurements, through the kindly cooperation of the Chief of the
U.S. Weather Bureau, are published on the Washington weather map.

The writer and Mr. H. B. Freeman of the Astrophysical Observa-
tory occupied the Smithsonian station on Mount Wilson, California,
from July to mid-September, 1928. They improved the somewhat
celebrated solar cooker, installed there some years ago, by employing
vacuum jackets for the heater tube, and by better protecting the
apparatus in other ways from loss of heat. Series of measurements
were taken of temperatures in the ovens and elsewhere in the apparatus
at all hours of the day. The ovens remained for several weeks at
temperatures between 140° Centigrade at sunrise and 175° Centigrade
at mid-afternoon, so that baking and other operations of cooking could
be done at all hours of night as well as day, even though the exposure
to sun-rays was limited to about seven and one-half hours per day by
the shading of trees.

Many years ago, under Secretary Langley’s direction, the Astro-
physical Observatory made a study of the solar spectrum beyond the

I
2 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

visible end of the red, in order to discover and map the lines of absorp-
tion there, produced by gases and vapors in the atmospheres of the
sun and of the earth. These infra-red rays are largely inaccessible to
photographic or visual observation, and were observed by the heat
they produce in that fine, blackened, electrically-connected strip of
metal called the bolometer which Langley invented. As published in
Volume I of the Annals of the Astrophysical Observatory, about
550 lines were found by the bolometer between the line called A
by Fraunhofer, which lies in the deepest red, and the great infra-red
band called © by Langley.

The writer and Mr. Freeman set up more powerful apparatus and
examined this region anew. They found about 2,000 lines where
about 550 had been detected before. Their results are much ap-
preciated, and are being employed in various researches, notably by
Dr. Babcock of the Mount Wilson Observatory in his identifications
of the chemical elements represented in the sun by their infra-red
spectra.

The writer continued his research, in cooperation with the Mount
Wilson Observatory, on the distribution of energy in the spectra
of the stars. Just as the color of the blacksmith’s iron gives a notion
of its temperature, so, under carefully measured conditions, does
the study of the heat of different colors of their spectra give means
of estimating the temperatures of the stars. Furthermore, when both
the temperature and the distance of a star are measured, we may
estimate how large a star at that temperature and that distance must
necessarily be in order to send to the earth its observed total intensity
of radiation.

Four years ago, the writer succeeded for the first time in observing
the spectra of to of the brightest stars in this way. He used the
radiometer, an instrument similar in principle to those sometimes
seen in rotation in sunlight in opticians’ windows. In August and
September, 1928, he succeeded with a new form of the radiometer
in observing the energy of the spectrum of the planets Mars and
Jupiter, and of 18 stars, of which most were fainter than the second
magnitude, and one was of magnitude 3.8.

The results were very accordant on successive nights, and will add
decidedly to our knowledge in this field. In the instrument used, the
vanes were made of house-flies’ wings, about 1/75 inch wide and about
1/25 inch tall. The instrument was suspended in hydrogen at about
1/5000 ordinary atmospheric pressure by a quartz fiber too small to
be readily seen by the eye, even in selected lighting. Some idea of the
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1928 3

fineness of its suspending fiber may be gathered from the fact that a
fragment of a Dennison gummed label, $ inch wide and @ inch long,
was too heavy to be carried without breakage by the quartz fiber.
Also it was found that when suspended in a wide bottle in air at
ordinary atmospheric pressure the top of the suspending fiber could
be turned through more than 40 complete turns before the little
radiometer hung at its lower end responded by any perceptible rota-

TEN BLUE, WHITE, AND YELLOW STARS TEN REDDISH ANO DEEP RED STARS 5
-6 -6 “4 -2 0) 2 4 6 6 10} 2 4 6 6 a \
4 ij, a — T
Le S/ t == aos
is SDSS) pe =e
ey . | | ee
2 Lg el ~ | Ib | Py Scale : —
| | | 1 Ss es
' re oS + — <y¥$———+
— AT SS
a = =! E f JE |
(im a | ¥ | | a
| CET eet
bab th a ~ Nt = 0 (cet aaa 7
| Scat WwW x K
=f — = =| a Fs | jh i 41 .
ot = Py TSN
Lyrae} o ES ie i SLES EVE Sf
ban mages = tee | tel le = g <=
1 = =: et z i CEMUAE jy —
Ey ~ we a
lee A AQUILAE Y a SN LS ult + il & = A + if 4
os NS kez
y : ue y S =_|a Boor | ee = zs
—= a = 77S StS Tne ee e IEE Af ee \
y ; é ~ 6 ee SS
= 5 - ome Sea _- S ROS —_— 4 _4_}+—_-»
: eS a
d_CNGNI oF s a ee = a Nt
ao ch a4 oe! 1-4 7 aa
o/ Z \
eile SEED ak EE IN
~ & i y |
et Y a TAURI a = —
ra ei aa 1 ai \
a pERSE! | + } 6y
= ee {> =| SS =i
+ t
= a —, ORIONIS| 2
— x -
a
{ot
re
Vi MARS
F} so a 5
my za
ot sp E
yey PEGASI
| P= sh
= 1 a
| jvupiter \ eer: o|ceti =
ea i [PRISMATIC DEVIATIONS YIN TURNS OF THE SCREW T ] ]
-8 -6 4 ea 0 2 4 6 6 | o 2 4 6 | 8 | 10
AnostroMs4370 5890 7000 9050 13160 17510 22240 WAVE LENGTHS 5890 7000 9050 13160 17510 22240 ANGSTROMS

Fig. 2.—Distribution of heat in the prismatic spectra of 18 stars and 2 planets.

tion. The air, in fact, acted as if viscous, like molasses, to this
minute force.

In order to observe the indications of the radiometer, it was pro-
vided with a mirror made by thinly plating with platinum a bit of
glass smaller than the head of a pin, and made by grinding and polish-
ing to one-third ordinary thickness the cover glass used for mounting
specimens for microscopic examination. This thin mirror reflected a
little auxiliary beam of electric light to a distance of almost 20 feet. At
the hottest parts of their spectra most of the stars examined, though
their rays were collected by the great 100-inch telescope, were only
powerful enough in shining on the fly-wing vane of the instrument
4 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

to deflect the recording spot of light (whose lever arm, as just ex-
plained, was nearly 20 feet) by less than ;/¢ inch. Nevertheless, so
beautifully quiet and free from accidental disturbances was the record-
ing spot that in successive determinations of spectrum energy on
different nights the agreement was usually excellent, and the diver-
gences hardly exceeded the thickness of a sheet of paper on the scale
Om Zo: feet leversarny.

In all this work the aid and encouragement of Dr. Adams of the
Mount Wilson Observatory was invaluable.
NV isi TO) iin MINE RAE-PRODUWCING REGIONS OF
NEW ENGLAND

By GEORGE P. MERRILL,
Head Curator, Department of Geology, U. S. National Museum

To inspect certain of the well-known mineral regions of New Eng-
land with a view to future explorations, rather than to acquiring
new materials, [ made a somewhat hurried trip through parts of Maine,
New Hampshire, and Vermont.

Leaving the Isle of Springs, where I had been passing a few weeks’
vacation, I proceeded by train and auto to Andover, Maine, where
under the guidance of Mr. W. D. Nevel I was able to study the
pegmatite deposit in the adjoining town of Newry. This proved to be
a typical case of feldspathic replacement as made known through the
researches of Doctor Schaller, and was of particular interest not only
because of its green and pink tourmalines, lepidolite, and large
amblygonites, but also because it is the only deposit worked for the
rare mineral pollucite, a silicate of caesium and aluminum, which was
at one time considered to be of promise as a source of caesium salts
for use in the manufacture of radio apparatus. From Andover I
proceeded to the well-known and historically interesting gem locality
at Paris Hill in the same State. Mining operations were quiet, so that
opportunity was offered only of examining a large series from former
workings, including one of the finest green beryls known, which had
already been sold to Harvard University. From Paris Hill I pro-
ceeded to an inspection of certain localities in New Hampshire, mak-
ing my headquarters at Canaan with side trips to the desired points.
Old workings in Grafton and Acworth were visited which were noted
in the past as producers of gigantic beryls. Both localities proved of
exceptional interest, but it was not deemed advisable to attempt under
existing conditions the extraction of any of the crystals, owing to their
inaccessibility and the consequent cost. From Canaan, I went to
Bellows Falls, Vermont, and through the courtesy of the officials of
the Board of Trade was enabled to visit several of their feldspar
prospects. The mines, though producing feldspar and quartz in com-
mercial quantities, were singularly barren of other desirable minerals.
6 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Fic. 3—Quarry at Newry, Maine, where a big tourmaline mass was obtained.
HUNTING DINOSAURS IN MONTANA

By CHARLES W. GILMORE,
Curator, Division of Vertebrate Paleontology, U. S. National Museum

In the northeastern part of the Blackfeet Indian Reservation in
northern Montana are areas of broken country known as “ badlands ”
in which occur the fossil remains of dinosaurs and other extinct
reptiles. It was in these deposits along Milk River that in 1913 |
discovered the type specimens on which the horned dinosaur Brachy-
ceratops montanensis was established. This interesting animal, to-
gether with other specimens of scientific importance collected during
a few weeks work in that year, marked the region as so promising that
further investigation has long been desired.

In 1928 the project finally became a reality, and in May I left
Washington for Cut Bank, Montana, the base of operations, where
I was joined by Messrs. Geo. F. Sternberg and Edwin Cooke, both of
Hays, Kansas, the former serving as field assistant, and the latter as
cook for the party. The day following the organization of the expedi-
tion, we proceeded to the Milk River locality where camp was estab-
lished on the south bank of the stream, and the systematic search of
the exposures began. Collecting was carried on here from May 16
to June 2 with only fair results. The more important specimens found
were a partial skeleton of a large carnivorous dinosaur, some 60 bones
of a duck-billed dinosaur (Hypacrosaurus) including parts of the
skull, a portion of the frill of Styracosaurus, the first reported oc-
currence of this animal outside of the Red Deer River region, Alberta,
and the skull of an armored dinosaur, which because of its rarity
is always of interest.

Having prospected all of the exposures on this side of the river
by June 2, camp was moved to the north bank and work was resumed
there with better returns. The most noteworthy specimen found was
a complete skull and more than 100 bones of a disarticulated skeleton
of Panoplosaurus, one of the least known of the armored dinosauria.
A partial skeleton including parts of the skull of Monoclonius, a
horned dinosaur of this period, was also collected. One of the most
interesting discoveries was a stratum literally filled with the scattered
bones of a small Hadrosaurian or “ duck-billed ” dinosaur (see fig. 4).
Many individuals were represented, and as nearly all appeared to
pertain to a single kind, a collection of practically all parts of the

7
8 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

skeleton was made. The considerable number of individuals present
here is attested by the fact that nine dentaries (lower jaws) were
found in this one spot. The fossils were in an excellent state of
preservation and form a good study series. The quarry was not yet
exhausted when it was decided to discontinue further work here.
All of the area on the north side of the river having been inspected
by July 1, our activities were transferred 50 miles to the south to
exposures along the Two Medicine River. This area of badlands from
the viewpoint of a fossil collector was the most promising-looking
ground that we had encountered. The country was deeply dissected,

Fic. 4.—Collecting dinosaur bones on the Blackfeet Indian Reservation,
Montana. (Photograph by G. F. Sternberg.)

the surfaces were free from vegetation, and there were many low-
lying, rounded exposures—precisely the conditions that give promise
of easy and profitable collecting. Much to our disappointment, how-
ever, in the 10 days spent here, only one specimen worth collecting
was found—a partial skeleton, including parts of the skull, of a duck-
billed dinosaur.

The Two Medicine formation was particularly disappointing in the
lack of articulated specimens, for inasmuch as this formation is re-
garded by geologists as in part equivalent in age to the Belly River
formation of the Red Deer River region some 150 to 200 miles to
the north, from which numerous articulated skeletons have been ob-
tained, I was led to hope that equally well-preserved specimens might
9

SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1928

(‘S1equis}s “yo Aq ydes

o}OYd) “punois oy} ur

AR]

Aoy}

se uMoys

inesoulp

P2eT[tq-yoHp e jo souoqd

[issog—'S ‘oI

N
INSTITUTION

SMITHSONIAN

IO

(‘SloquisisS “yo Aq ydessojoyd )
ULIPUT JooJ AOR] ‘JOALY AIP Uo ‘sninvsojgowwg sANesoulp posowse

“eURJUOTY, “UOIPBAIISIY
94} JO UOJaJayS Payeroossesip 9Y} SuUlITJON— 9 “DIY

SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1928 Wat

be found in the Montana field. Although isolated individuals were
frequently found, all had the bones of the skeleton disarranged and
scattered.

All accessible collecting territory having been covered by July 15,
the fossils were packed in 13 boxes weighing together 5250 pounds
and shipped to the Museum. Although disappointing in that it did
not contain one articulated skeleton suitable for exhibition, the collec-
tion made is most important scientifically. One if not two of the
specimens are new to science, and others will contribute materially
to a better understanding of the skeletal anatomy of the genera to

Fic. 7.—Fossil-bearing exposures along the Two Medicine River, Blackfeet

Indian Reservation, Montana. (Photograph by G. F. Sternberg.)

which they pertain. The collection as a whole will make a decided
contribution to our knowledge of the meagerly known fauna of the
Two Medicine formation, and will enable it to be comprehensively
compared with the faunas of other Upper Cretaceous faunas both to
the north and south. Practically all of the specimens obtained are new
to the National collections and fill gaps of long standing.

Upon the completion of the work in northern Montana, I proceeded
to Bear Creek, a coal-mining camp in the southern part of the State,
to investigate the practicability of securing a collection of Paleocene
mammals, whose remains occur here in the Eagle coal mine. The
attention of the Museum officials had been directed to this locality
I2 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

through the kind offices of Dr. J. C. F. Siegfriedt, a resident of Bear
Creek, who was also generous of his time and knowledge in assisting
in my investigations. Examination of the Eagle mine showed the
occurrence of the fossil remains to be in a thin stratum that immediately
overlies the coal in the roof of certain parts of the mine. In this
layer has been found a considerable variety of minute mammalian
fossils in addition to the scattered bones of Rhynchocephalian reptiles,
crocodiles, turtles, and fish. Limited time did not permit me to make
a collection of these fossils on the spot, but 400 or more pounds of
the “ pay dirt’ was boxed and shipped to Washington where it can
be carefully gone over for its minute fossil content. Arrangements
were also perfected with the mine foreman whereby additional fossil-
bearing rock may be obtained should more be desired. Paleocene mam-
mal remains are among the rarest of fossil specimens, so that the
discovery of this new locality in what is probably a different geological
horizon from those previously found in Montana is of much scientific
interest.

On the return journey from the field I took the opportunity of
examining the paleontological collections of the University of Utah,
Salt Lake City; the University of Wyoming, Laramie ; the Colorado
Museum of Natural History, Denver; the University of Kansas,
Lawrence ; and the Field Museum of Natural History, Chicago.
POR DHE R STUDYCOR DP sPROBLEM OF LARLY
MAN IN FLORIDA

By J. W. GIDLEY,
Assistant Curator, Division of Vertebrate Paleontology, U. S. National Museum

During the last few years the Smithsonian Institution has been
interested in scientific investigation of the Pleistocene fossil-bone-
bearing deposits in eastern Florida, especially in connection with the
problem of early man, and expeditions have been conducted there as
time and funds for field-work became available. In continuation
of this work I went to Melbourne in the latter part of January, 1928.
and spent two months at that place, at Vero, and at other east coast
locations, making collections of material and a systematic and critical
study of the deposits.

As a result many new data were obtained which have an important
bearing on the highly interesting and much discussed question of the
presence of early man in Florida. This question was first raised in
1916, when Dr. E. H. Sellards, then State Geologist of Florida, re-
ported the finding at Vero of fossil human remains and artifacts
associated with the fossil bones of an extinct vertebrate fauna. Subse-
quent investigations at Vero, but more especially those at Melbourne,
have added considerable evidence which seems to confirm Dr. Sellard’s
view of the contemporaneity of man and the animals whose remains
have been found intermingled. But owing to the nature and shallow-
ness of the deposits, which might permit, through burials or otherwise,
a comparatively recent mingling of human remains with bones of an
older geologic age, there have been wide differences of opinion as to
the interpretation of the association of material found in them.

The country is low-lying and flat where these fossil-bone-bearing
beds are located, and before drainage canals were dug by modern
man the best fossil-yielding areas were for the most part covered by
swamps and heavy swamp vegetation. Even with the land now drained
of most of the underground water, prevailing conditions make diffi-
cult the task of working out and properly interpreting the geologic
structure and relationships of the two principal deposits involved. It
was thus early recognized that worth while results and a satisfactory
solution of the main question could be obtained only by extensive
excavations and systematic study of the deposits over considerable
areas. The earlier expeditions were much limited by the lack of

13
14 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

a.

a. 3 o a

Fic. 8.—Crane Creek, Melbourne, Florida. Typical swamp such as formerly
covered the areas at Melbourne and Vero where research investigations were
carried on.

SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1928 qT

cn

sufficient funds with which to carry on the work and develop the
most effective methods of exploration.

The new methods adopted in my work of the past season at Mel-
bourne I found most effective both in collecting and keeping separate
the fossil bones of the different formations and in the critical study
of the geologic structure of the two principal beds involved, as well
as in studying the character of the contact plane between them.

The sedimentary deposits under investigation at the Melbourne
locality are relatively shallow, averaging not more than 8 or 10
feet in thickness. They lie everywhere on an uneven floor of con-
solidated Coquina layer made up of marine shells. They are quite
distinctly divided into two layers or beds. The upper one averages
about 3 or 4 feet in thickness; where undisturbed by. recent
stream beds or other excavation it is composed principally of alter-
nating layers of rather coarse, loose sand, swamp-muck and leaf-
mould, the muck deposits being heaviest at the top, the interstratified
leaf-mould and sand layers prevailing in the lower portion of the
upper bed. The lower bed is composed of a more compact and purer
sand mass which shows little stratification, except in its lower portion,
where there is some evidence of faintly defined alternating layers
and lenses of coarser and finer sands intermixed in places with a
sandy swamp muck. This geologic structure is almost identical with
conditions observed at Vero. Hence in describing them I have used
Dr. Sellards’ designations of the three geological levels. The under-
lying shell deposit is known as “* No. 1 bed,” the lower sandy deposit
as “ No. 2 bed” and the upper one as “ No. 3. bed.”

In former explorations, excavations of very small extent were the
rule, with occasional development of larger areas in which a com-
plete section of the deposit was exposed and worked on a more or
less perpendicular face. This method gave a good general idea of
the structure of the beds but only such as could be studied in cross
section. In consequence some wrong interpretations of the origin of
the beds were made, and some important features of structure were
overlooked.

For example, it was rather generally accepted that the unevenness
of the contact plane observed between the No. 2 and No. 3 beds was
due to stream-channel erosion, and that the deposits of both these beds
were principally due to stream-channel action. On this assumption
it was suggested that the entire deposit was of relatively recent origin,
the presence of a more ancient fauna being accounted for by assuming
that they were derived from worked over and redeposited older beds.
16 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Fic. 9—Country club golf course, Melbourne, Florida, showing area
cleared for excavation. Young palmetto at left same as one in similar
position in figure 10.

Fic. 10.—Golf links locality, Melbourne, Florida. Main pit looking northwest,
showing basin-shaped depressions in surface of No. 2 bed.
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1928 17

It was also assumed that the entire deposit above the No. 1 bed was
fossil-bearing. The process followed the past season consisted of
working over the No. 3 bed first and stripping it cleanly from the
contact plane before developing the No. 2 bed. In this way several
important observations were made possible. These necessitate an
interpretation of the origin of the deposits quite different from that
assumed by Dr. Sellards and others, but they bring strong confirmation
of Dr. Sellards’ former view that the human remains found in the
No. 2 bed indicate the contemporaneity of man with the fauna of that
zone. These observations may be briefly stated as follows:

First, it was discovered that the upper or No. 3 bed is entirely of
swamp and wind-blown sand origin, and that this bed where undis-
turbed by recent stream cutting is almost barren of fossil remains.
This suggests that continued swamp conditions from the time of its
beginning to the present have excluded land animals from the areas
now covered by this deposit; also that man would probably not have
made any burials there either during or since its accumulation. Fur-
thermore the very nature of the beds, which are made up of sharply
defined, alternating and interfingering layers of loose sand, swamp
muck, and light leaf-mould, forms a very effective seal over every:
thing below them, a seal through which it would be almost impossible
to break by any kind of excavations and refilling without that fact
being readily detected.

The second important conclusion reached after uncovering large
areas was that the unevenness of the contact plane was not due to water
erosion of any kind but was caused by more or less regularly basin-
shaped depressions of varying sizes and depth. It was noted also that
fossil remains of relatively recent appearance were found strewn over
all this contact plane, with occasional association of human artifacts
and fossil remains evidently worked out from the underlying No. 2
bed. The No. 2 bed was found to contain an unmixed extinct fauna
from top to bottom. Most of the material was much broken, and many
instances were observed of pieces of bones belonging to a single indi-
vidual being scattered over several feet of area on the same level.
indicating that the accumulation of this deposit had been gradual and
almost undisturbed by the action of stream currents. The No. 2 bed
seems to be mostly of wind-blown origin.

In this deposit at about mid-section was found this season an arrow
point or stone knife of human origin, and a few years ago within
a hundred yards of this spot was found a crushed human skull and a
few scattered bones near the top, but entirely within the limits of the

No. 2 bed.
18 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Fic. 11—Golf links locality, Melbourne, Florida.

Arrow point in place
at end of brush handle. View shows entire section of No. 2, No. 3, and
recent beds.
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1928 IQ

Fic. 12—Main pit, golf links locality, Melbourne, Florida. West side of
pit, section through formations above No. 1 bed, showing recent cut and fill
through No. 3 bed and into top of No. 2 bed. Tremarctos specimen was
found in this excavated portion of pit in dark layer represented about 10
inches above coquina layer of No. 1 bed.
20 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Thus Dr. Sellards’ contention seems now to be confirmed, that man
existed in Florida contemporaneously with an extinct fauna. The
exact age of the extinct fauna, however, is somewhat uncertain and is
still an open question. Some authorities consider it middle or early
Pleistocene, but there are features connected with it which suggest a
later phase of that period. Only better collections and a very critical
study of all available material will satisfactorily solve this question.

As a part of the work accomplished by this expedition, the old
locality at Vero was again visited and the similarity of conditions
there and at Melbourne were verified. Also visits were made to other
localities, the most important being Okeechobee and New Smyrna. At
these places observations showed unmistakably similiar conditions of
sedimentation but in somewhat modified form. At New Smyrna the
No. 3 bed was thinner and had a greater percentage of swamp-muck
than at Melbourne and Vero, and the No. 2 bed 1s composed of a more
compact and finer quality of sand. This bed contains abundant fossil
bones, of the same characters as those of the No. 2 bed at Melbourne.
Here also were found human artifacts and remains in undisturbed
natural association with the fossil bones.
CAMBRIA N "GEOLOGY OF THE, ROCKY MOUNTAINS

Bae (C, 1B, IRIBSS IIR
Associate Curator, Division of Stratigraphic Paleontology,
U. S. National Museum

Continuing my stratigraphic studies through which it is hoped ulti-
mately to gain a clearer conception of the Cambrian system as de-
veloped in the Rocky Mountains, the past field season was devoted
to a study of the Cambrian beds as exposed in some of Wyoming's
larger mountain ranges. Again travel was by auto truck, which was
frequently driven considerable distances beyond the end of the roads
to more convenient camp sites nearer the outcrops. My son, Harold I.
Resser, again acted as camp assistant.

After securing the auto truck and camp equipment at Salt Lake
City early in July, we traveled northward through the picturesque
Bear Lake and Star Valleys and entered Wyoming across Jackson
Pass. A well-exposed section above Blackrock Meadows east of
Moran gave us a good idea of the structure where the lava-covered
Absaroka Plateau joins the better defined ranges that extend south-
ward from this point. Following this, our attention was turned to the
Wind River Range where, as at many other places, it was found
difficult to reach the Cambrian rocks without the use of horses because
these beds outcrop high up next to the granitic rocks of the mountain
core, and further because some of the younger sedimentary rocks,
which also dip away from the central core, are composed of massive
limestones that confine the many vigorous streams coming down from
the moist heights to narrow canyons walled in by unscalable cliffs.
However, the recent building of roads to furnish outlets for lumber
camps and “ dude” ranches has made it possible at places to drive up
over this sedimentary rim into the regions of less rugged relief beyond.
Contrary to the usual rule that roads entering or crossing mountains
should follow up stream courses, many of Wyoming’s mountain roads
take a totally different route, zigzagging up a spur between two
streams until above the sedimentary rim previously referred to, and
only then following a stream course. But even here the open, park-
like landscape, with its relatively gentle slopes, permits the construc-
tion of roads almost anywhere ; consequently scarcely any of the roads
follow streams for long distances. Thus at Warm Spring and Torrey
Creeks it was possible for us to get up to two fine sections, as we also
did along the Atlantic City-South Pass road far to the south.

21
SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

bo
Li)

2

Fic. 13.—Camp of Wyoming Tie and Lumber Company, Warm Spring,
Wyoming. A fine Cambrian section was studied on point of hill in center
of view. (Photograph by Resser. )

Fic. 14.—Looking west down Teton Canyon and across Teton Basin in Idaho,
Fine Cambrian section exposed in left wall. (Photograph by Resser.)
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1928 23

After this somewhat hasty examination of the Wind River Range,
we crossed the Owl Creeks through the famous Wind River or
Thermopolis Canyon into the Big Horn Basin. Two roads cross the
3ig Horn Range, whose structure, like that of the Wind River Range,
consists of a granite interior surrounded with sedimentary rocks,
which, since the uplift, form a band of varying width all the way
around the range. Several sections were studied along these roads.
In Tensleep Canyon, for instance, on the southern-most of these two
roads, new construction has exposed the softer Cambrian beds here
present, permitting their examination with ease. On the eastern side
of the range where this highway goes down again across the band of
sedimentary rocks, after having traversed many miles of the delightful
upland region with its open granite topography, the section is so
greatly disturbed as to be of little value except for checking observa-
tions made elsewhere along this front. We returned westward over
the Big Horns along the northern route, or the Dayton-Kane road,
getting the best exposure possible in coming up the eastern side where
a new road was then under construction. Here a fine section and many
instructive fossils were obtained. It was found that where the road
drops down into the Big Horn Basin on the west, the section in Bald
Mountain and the adjacent hills was not as cleanly exposed as ex-
pected, and consequently also yielded but few fossils. Here again the
use of horses would have greatly enlarged the possible radius of
activity and perhaps would have made it possible to reach the more
fossiliferous beds reported to lie to the north in Sheep Mountain.
Nevertheless many stratigraphic data of importance were obtained.

The latter part of the season was spent in the Teton Mountains,
particularly in Teton Canyon. Here, as in many places in this and
other ranges, the recent glaciation has steepened the slopes of the
canyons to such an extent that the softer shale beds are frequently
exposed on the slopes between the cliffs which the limestones and
other massive rocks ususally form. In this place, almost directly under
the Grand Teton, the scenery is so magnificent that one is constantly
tempted to gaze upon it at the expense of considerable time. Indeed,
I think it safe to say that scarcely any other mountain group in the
world exceeds the magnificence of the Teton Mountains.

The Wyoming ranges afford many fine examples of the varied
effects of glaciation. In the Tetons, cirques and U-shaped valleys are
developed to text-book perfection, and in the Wind River Range, an
icefield more than 20 miles long still sends down its floods of milky
water. When a few warm days occur in succession in late July, melt-
24 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Fic. 15.—Road through dense aspen grove in lower Teton Canyon.
(Photograph by Resser.)

Fic, 16.—At head of South Fork, Teton Creek. These ponies have come
down the “ Devil’s Stairway ” over the Cambrian cliffs to the right. Cap, a
“thoroughbred colliaire,” has an amusing habit of eating snow by scooping
it up with his lower jaw. (Photograph by Resser. )
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1928 25

Fic. 17.—Looking north along axis of Wind River Mountains from South
Pass road. Old stable for horses used in nearby mine stands on Cambrian
rocks which make the slope to the right. (Photograph by Resser.)

Fic. 18.—View northeast across glaciated head of South Teton Creek, showing
sedimentary beds at left and top of Grand Teton in center. (Photograph by
Resser. )
26 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

ing this ice, Dinwoodie Glacier sends down enough water to raise
the level of the Wind River sufficiently to prevent the driving of
railroad ties, for which purpose this stream is used at that season.
Another interesting set of facts was observed by us this summer
along the western boundary of Wyoming. This boundary is a mathe-
matical line and consequently does not conform either to the topog-
raphy or to the distribution of tillable soil, as it cuts across foothills,
mountains or fertile valleys indiscriminately. The Teton, Salt River,
and intervening ranges form a huge mountain wall, uninhabited and
not easy to cross, at varying distances to the east of this mathematical
line. Wherever the line cuts into the foothills of these ranges no one
asks for a change, but where a segment of habitable land is left on
one side or the other, agitation has recently arisen for a change in the
boundary. Thus, in the Teton Basin a small sector supporting several
dozen people extends into a tillable embayment about the mouth of
Teton Canyon—an area, incidentally, that shipped 100 carloads of
table-peas this fall. This small group of people must do all of their
buying and selling and receive their mail in Idaho. Their trade is of
no value to other Wyoming citizens and consequently their community
needs for roads and other civic improvements are apt to be neglected.
Consequently this group wants the state line curved east sufficiently
to include them with the remainder of the Teton Basin in Idaho. On
the other hand, south of the Snake River, Star Valley along the Salt
River lies mainly in Wyoming with only the western fringe in Idaho.
Here the smaller group wants the line curved westward to include
them in Wyoming where they buy and sell commodities, and receive
their mail. This situation clearly illustrates the geographic problems

involved in the establishment of boundaries.
EXTINCT OCEAN-LIVING MAMMALS FROM MARYLAND

By REMINGTON KELLOGG,
Assistant Curator, Division of Mammals, U. S, National Muscum

During Middle Miocene times a considerable portion of southern
Maryland was submerged below sea level and an extensive estuary
of the sea reached northward across the state. Conditions were
favorable for the deposition of sediments such as clays and sands, as
well as for the existence of large numbers of ocean-inhabiting animals.
These animals lived and died, and their hard parts or skeletons found
a resting place on the sandy bottoms where in the course of time
they were buried by successive layers of sediments. Then conditions
changed and much of this area was uplifted above the sea. Many of
the animals that frequented this region disappeared and new ones took
their places. And it is in these Calvert sands and clays that we are
able to reconstruct from more or less fragmentary remains the life
that existed there at the time this formation was being laid down. For
several seasons past, the writer and Mr. Norman H. Boss have been
engaged in searching the exposures of the Calvert formation in Mary-
land for remains of fossil pelagic mammals. These studies have been
continued in cooperation with the Carnegie Institution of Washington.
Sufficient material has been accumulated to determine the variety of
types that frequented the sea covering this area during Miocene times.
Additional material is still needed to interpret the structural peculiari-
ties of some of these extinct water-frequenting mammals.

One cannot expect to find bones everywhere nor is it possible to
search the surface of the entire formation, for much of it is buried
beneath later deposits of earth. Along the western shore of Chesa-
peake Bay is an almost unbroken exposure of sandy clay known as
the Calvert Cliffs, which extend southward from Chesapeake Beach
for a distance of nearly 30 miles and in places attain a height of
about 100 feet. The tides, the waves that rise in rough weather, and
the storms, singly or conjointly are constantly cutting away the face
of this cliff, exposing bones of animals that died and were buried in
the sandy clays that comprise the Calvert formation. The waves cut
away the foot of the cliff and thus undermine the exposed surface.
Large blocks of the overhanging face drop off and these “ falls” are
soon washed away. In a relatively short time the bones that fall in
the water are damaged or destroyed. For this reason the cliff must

27
Z SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Fic. 19—Cliff along shore of Chesapeake Bay, Maryland, showing a fall of earth
from which the man in the foreground is collecting fossil remains. (Photograph by
El. S, Barber.)
29

8

?
<

EXPLORATIONS, IQ

SMITHSONIAN

(Relapse, cer aay

SUIAI[-B9S SNOLIVA JO Souog dy} puNno} ore YIYM ur ‘Aeg

ey Ps

Vv

Aq ydeisojoyd) ‘sypeumureut
ayeodesoyy) JO s10Ys Uto}so

M

—J
oO

uoye sjjIfo

SUIIv9Iq-[ISSO— Oe “OI
INSTITUTION

SMITHSONIAN

30

‘purpAseyy ‘Aeq oxyvodesay) Suoye syijo ay}
UL PUNOF SureUla1 [ISsOF UO paseq st YOIYM ‘(S8O]Joy Ivog siydjapomyiny) asiodsod youyXa Jo uoe10Jsay—Iz “DIA

413342] -HLONZ] Tio}

2.004. ay

oa

SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1928

QIGI ‘ssog “FT ueulION Aq poepe]]JOD

“SSOT[OM Issog Slydjapowlyang yo usaturads odA} oy} Fo sMel IMO] pue

=

i '

geen eee SEETE EU Oey

seria

eS

—TtZ “DIY
32 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

be inspected at regular intervals to save the bones that are exposed
by the elements. Weather permitting, trips of one to two days are
arranged for and these visits are extended if promising material is
located. The last visit for the present season covered the period July
19 to July 22, 1928. On these inspection trips many interesting speci-
mens have been found and brought to the museum.

Included among the fossil material thus acquired are the whole or
portions of skeletons of at least 22 different kinds of whales referable
to six families. This assemblage includes shark-toothed porpoises,
sperm whales, both long and short-beaked porpoises, river dolphins,
and several kinds of archaic whalebone whales or cetotheres as they
are generally called. Remains of a small seal and a sea cow or sirenian
have been found here.

One of the characteristic porpoises found in this formation of sandy
clay has a skull with a long beak. Curiously enough, sockets for
teeth are absent near the tip. Three specimens of another much longer-
snouted porpoise with a skull nearly four feet in length have been
found. Several other types of long narrow-beaked porpoises also
frequented the Miocene seas that covered this area. The jaws of one
of these are remarkably flattened. Another type has many long slender
curved teeth. Judging from the known remains, sperm whales rarely
visited this area and the predatory shark-toothed porpoises were less
numerous than the supposedly fish-eating types. Several kinds of
short-snouted porpoises have been found, and for two of these types
almost complete skeletons have been collected. Most of the archaic
whalebone whales are somewhat smaller than the smallest of the living
finner whales, but the jaws of at least one type are as large as those
of the recent Sei whale.

————EE———————————— eee
EPCPEORA TIONS OF TEE IRE. DAVID 'C. GRAHAM-IN
WESTERN CHINA

By CHARLES W. RICHMOND,
Associate Curator, Division of Birds, U. S. National Museuni

The Rev. David C. Graham, who has been exploring various parts
of western China for several years in the interests of the Smithsonian
Institution, resumed his work in the latter part of 1927, after a year
of study in the United States. He and his Chinese collectors worked
as opportunity offered in the vicinity of his headquarters at Suifu, in
the Province of Szechuan, and upon occasion he sent them as far as
Kiating and Yachow, to the north and west. This collecting resulted
in the accumulation of over 11,000 specimens, consisting roughly of
1,000 vertebrates and over 10,000 invertebrates, all of which have now
reached Washington and are in process of examination by the various
curators. Among some non-zoological specimens sent in are 100 or
more artifacts obtained from old burial tombs near Kiating in January,
1928. Dr. Graham writes that these tombs are of the Han Dynasty,
though “ popularly believed to be pre-Chinese caves formerly inhabited
by the Mantsis or aborigines.’ His success in finding these artifacts
was due to “ the fact that the collecting was in a section that has been
practically overlooked by Chinese and foreigners who were interested
in collecting such materials in the past.” The specimens include a
variety of subjects, such as the “ right front half of a small dog with
a pug nose,” “remnant of a face; has earrings and is evidently the
face of a pretty woman,” and “ part of a hen with a chicken on its
back.” Referring to another specimen, Dr. Graham writes, ‘ One
box contains a Miao suit. . . . . It hasa story. The Miao boy brought
his sister to Suifu to learn weaving. When the boy went away, the
Chinese sold his sister as a slave. He was poor and could not get
her back. By selling the garment to me for eight dollars he got
just enough money to buy her freedom again. He says he will get me
a much better garment later at a reasonable price.”

During the summer season Dr. Graham has been in the habit of
making extended trips to more remote parts of the province, and has
visited Sungpan, Tatsienlu, and the mountain Washan on such occa-
sions. For several years he has planned a visit to Moupin and vicinity,
a locality of zoological importance through the work done there years
ago by the Abbé Armand David, but each year he found that war,

SiS
SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

we gh FR

ith
yO,

Fic. 23.—Chinese caves near Kiating carved in the solid rock, formerly
used as burial tombs. (Photograph by Graham. )

Fic. 24—A farmer plowing with a typical Chinese plow and a water
buffalo, near Kiating. (Photograph by Graham.)
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1928 3

Cn

brigandage, or strife of some kind made a visit impossible. This year
he again looked forward to a trip to Moupin, but as spring advanced
the news became increasingly unfavorable and by the latter part of
June he gave up hope. The Chinese were at war with the Lolos, a
native tribe, and the latter had cut bridges and fortified various
strategic points, and a peaceful expedition through this region was
out of the question. However, in the event that the trip to Moupin
failed, Dr. Graham had picked out Ningyuenfu as a place worthy of

Fic. 25.—The Smithsonian expedition on the way to Ningyuenfu,
Szechuan Province, China. Taken in a mountainous district where
Lolos constantly rob the travellers and where a good escort is a necessity.
There are 14 coolies, 3 native collectors, 15 soldiers, a yamen runner
or representative, and D. C. Graham.

investigation, so he adjusted his plans to fit the needs of that place.
In referring to this change of plans, after making his summer expedi-
tion, he writes, “ The next best trip possible was to Ningyuenfu, 12
days journey south of Yachow, so there I went. Robbers were legion
west of Yachow until we reached the region of the Lolos. Then there
was constant danger from attacks by Lolos. West of the Great Shiang
Lin Pass there had been no rain for more than a month, and this
made collecting more difficult. At Ningyuenfu the officials put up
placards telling hunters to bring in game to sell to us, but not a single
thing was brought in. Because of the raids of the Lolos it was im-
36 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

possible to go to the mountains even near by to hunt. While we were
at Ningyuenfu, Lolos attacked a caravan, carried off pack animals
and goods, and took off some Chinese as captives. I do not think
that conditions in the Ningyuen district can improve much for a good
many years.”

Fic. 26.
main road west of Uin-Gin-Shien, Szechuan, China. This
is a memorial arch erected in memory of a widow who
remained loyal to her husband after his death by never
remarrying. (Photograph by Graham.)

An unusually beautiful archway spanning the

Ningyuenfu is scarcely more than 150 miles southwest of Suifu in
an air line, but the road leading to this place required a long journey,
via the Min River to Kiating, thence along the Ya River to Yachow,
after which the general direction lay to the south. The expedition
started from Suifu on July 4, with 10 coolies to carry the loads,
two or three native collectors, a cook, and an escort. On the 5th,
Dr. Graham remarks in his dairy, “ we passed through a robber resort,
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1928 a7

which was quite peaceful to-day because the militia had made a raid
and executed one of the robbers. We saw the dead robber being
carried home, escorted by his wife and others, to be buried after the
priest has performed the long ceremony of opening the way to hades.
His blood had sprinkled the roadway for at least a half mile.” The
party crossed the river five times on July 6; the weather was very
hot, and the coolies were fagged out. One of them suffered a sun-
stroke and was obliged to return to Suifu. The party reached Chien-
way (or Kienwei) after dark, and here the escorts were changed. On
the 7th, another hot day, two coolies ran away, rather than continue
the journey. One hundred and twenty li (about 35 miles) were
covered on this day, the party reaching Kiating, where they remained
on the 8th, to give the coolies a chance to rest. A heavy rain made
the roads very muddy, but they were ready to resume the trip on the
gth, though delayed in starting. As a result of the delay the party
made only 7o li, but reached Kia-Kiang.

On the next day they had an escort of 10 men with rifles, as the
danger from brigands was increasing. Yachow was almost within
reach on the 11th, but muddy roads prevented them from arriving
there until the morning of the 12th. Here Dr. Graham arranged for
the military escort, bargained for coolies to continue the trip, packed
up specimens to be left at Yachow, and repacked parts of his outfit.
The journey was continued on July 14, when the party traveled go li
to Uin-Gin-Shien, over the Gi-Tsi-Gang Pass. At the summit of the
pass they saw the head of a robber, set up as a warning to others.
Next day only 40 li were covered, for the travel was uphill and the
weather very hot. Conditions improved on the 16th, when they
reached higher levels and crossed Da-Shiang-Lin Pass (altitude about
9400 feet). A band of robbers had been operating in the pass in the
morning, but had disappeared when the party with ten soldiers reached
it in the afternoon. Later, Dr. Graham learned that the bandits had
retreated only to let his armed party pass and had returned and robbed
others the same day. The next day was extremely hot, but the party
made 80 li and reached Fu-Lin, where the altitude was about 3400
feet. On July 18 they crossed the Tung River in ferry boats, and
Dr. Graham remarks in his diary that “‘ the yamen officers delayed us
three whole hours in doing what could have been done in ten minutes.”
He also notes that on the top of a pass he saw “ in a basket on a pole
the head of a robber who had robbed and killed a postman. The
magistrate used this method to warn others.’ For the next two or
three days travel was much the same as that previously experienced,
38 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Fic. 27.—Smithsonian expedition crossing the river at Fu Lin in
Chinese boats, August 15, 1928, on the way back from Ningyuenfu.
Notice that the ends of the boat turn up—this is not true on the
Yangtse and Min Rivers.

Fic. 28.—Part of the Smithsonian expedition crossing a bridge near Fu
Lin, Szechuan, China, August 15, 1928. (Photograph by Graham.)

(*uuivyeiry Aq ydeisojoyg )
ul YesSNg Udi pT peed ‘diys41oM sojo'yT vy} pos A]TUO
‘UdABI LT JO por) 94} Sozipoqul
jouy eB OUT papreaq jrey Al
suog-a}IYM pea[eo
spoo]q-poXlul

AS SIL,
JAP Wo} JO

‘peasy ay} Jo do} uo
sUIOS }eU}
‘asouly) jaed
‘SOOT [RoId A}
‘ueNYIIZS
paxnu yo dnoinj—of ‘oy

‘ojo7y] Javed
pessoip

sojOo’y pe OTG

XPLORATIONS,

SMITHSONIAN

(cureyeiry Aq
ydeisojoyd ) “MOIIP peuosiod eB SE MOIR OY “UOTn}

-1suy UPIUOSY WG 94} TOF wieyesy “Dy ‘CZ Aq paseyoind
Uveq Sey Ievads suo] 94} yng JOUIIe BY} [[Y ‘Stojsooue sty
Aq UMOP popuey JOWIe 94} SUIIBIM ‘OJO'T papoo]q-][ny
‘0% “DIY

‘Sorpituey OOL FO UID I] 94} JO peay ‘IT “APY

40 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

up hill, over passes, and down again. On the 21st, Dr. Graham
observes that “a Chinese woman, evidently in much mental distress,
knocked her head on the ground and told me that three of her children
were captives among the Lolos (or Nosos). She had no money to
ransom them.” At the time he was writing this note, the Lolos
attacked the village, but his escort, now increased to 15 men, helped
to repulse them. The Lolos are a fierce aboriginal tribe who seem to
live largely by plunder. The pure Lolos call themselves “ black-boned,”
to distinguish them from those who are part Chinese and are known
as “ white-boned.” Dr. Graham does not indicate the meaning of this
distinction, except to say that the ‘ black-boned ”’ Lolos are the elite
of the tribe.

On July 23 the party crossed a pass called by the Chinese Shiao-
Shiang-Lin, with an altitude of 10,800 feet. This pass was feared
more than any other one yet to be reached, for at this one the Lolos
rob, loot, and take captives, while at the next one Chinese are the
robbers. The 24th was uneventful, except that the party passed
through a Chinese village that had been looted, the houses burnt, and
the people taken away as captives by the Lolos. Some of the captives
had been ransomed but others were still in captivity.

At some periods of the journey the Graham party numbered 34
souls, but by this time it was reduced to 18. Dr. Graham and his
collectors added to their natural history material at every opportunity,
although conditions were not ideal for the gathering of specimens.
The party reached Li-Tseo on July 25, and spent the night there.
They were still 50 li from Ningyuenfu but reached their destination
on the 26th.

Some days were spent at Ningyuenfu, where Dr. Graham and his
assistants collected specimens, particularly on a lake in the vicinity.
On July 28 several members of the party went on a short trip and
the head coolie cooked dinner. He used some “ salt ” on the vegetables
which proved to be arsenic, and all those who partook of this food were
made sick, but fortunately all recovered. On August 1, Dr. Graham
mailed 16 boxes of specimens to Suifu as being a more certain means
of getting them through in safety.

The return journey was begun on August 6, and was largely a
repetition of the outgoing trip. Dr. Graham notes in his diary that
all of his coolies were opium smokers, and that it was a problem every
morning to get them up in time to smoke their opium and get an
early start on the road. On the roth he writes they passed many ruins
of towers and fortresses, and that nearly every town was walled, all

——
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1928

41

Fic. 31.—The coolies who carried the Smithsonian baggage from Ning-
yuenfu to Yachow. Every one but the head coolie, who is better dressed
and near the center of the front row, is an opium smoker. (Photograph
by D. C. Graham. )

Fic. 32.—Taoist priest begging along the roadside near Yachow. He
Is securing sympathy by reading the Taoist scriptures. In the rear can
be seen coolies carrying Smithsonian loads. (Photograph by Graham. )

4
42 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

as a protection against the Lolos. He could get only four escorts from
the military authorities on the r2th, so went to the civil magistrate and
got four more. His collectors were not permitted to collect insects
outside the city gates at night because of the activity of the Lolos,
who had burned more than to houses in the vicinity the day before,
besides pillaging and commiting other depredations. The party reached
Fu-Lin on the 15th, and several days were spent here at the home
of a friendly Lolo. Through the help of this man Dr. Graham was
enabled to make some anthropometric measurements of pure-blooded
Lolos, and also obtained two sets of Lolo armor that may be 200 years
old. The party made a hard trip across the Da-Shiang-Lin Pass on
the 24th, with an escort of 23 soldiers. After crossing the pass they
were met by soldiers from the east side of the mountain who accom-
panied them to Huang-Li-Pu. On August 25, he notes in his diary
that “ yesterday nearly 100 brigands robbed a caravan and the brigands
were pursued by soldiers and militia, the battle continuing until about
noon to-day.” He arranged for a good escort to Yachow, and secured
23 soldiers with rifles. The party reached Yachow in safety on
August 26, and Dr. Graham settled with his coolies and did some
repacking. He secured a raft for the trip to Kiating, and got one that
was about 14 feet wide and 75 feet long, made of 25 bamboo poles
placed side by side and strapped together. The raft trip was begun
on the 28th, but had not proceeded far when four men (two with
rifles) ordered the party to come ashore. After some parleying with
the strangers the party got beyond reach and escaped. Kiating was
reached on August 29, and Suifu on September 2. In the course of
his summer expedition Dr. Graham covered over 800 miles of the
distance on foot.

The material collected on the Ningyuenfu trip has been packed and
shipped, but at the time of writing this report (December 19) it had
not yet arrived in Washington. Dr. Graham writes of this expedition
“The Ningyuen trip has in some ways been the hardest, most dan-
gerous, and most disappointing trip that I have yet taken. I sincerely
hope that the Smithsonian Institution will find the collection worth
while.”

EXPEDITION TO SAMANA PROVINCE, DOMINICAN
REE BIEIC

Bier GERRI Sy MiB Re
Curator, Division of Mammals, U. S. National Museum
AND
HERBERT W. KRIEGER,
Curator, Division of Ethnology, U. S. National Museum

The northeastern portion of the island of Haiti comprising the
peninsula and bay of Samana with its many islets has long been known
as a region rich in deposits left by its pre-Columbian inhabitants. On
the south shore of Samana Bay, which deeply indents this coast of the
island, Gabb explored some caves in 1869-1871, and found them to
contain very extensive kitchenmiddens. Pottery and bones collected
by him have been in the National Museum since 1872. Among these
bones were found, early in 1916, some jaws of a rodent supposed at
that time to be extinct. Stimulated by this discovery, Dr. William L.
Abbott visited the caves later in the same year. He obtained material
of great interest and reported that large accumulations of shells, bones,
and pottery remained to be examined. With the chief object of work-
ing these deposits more carefully than had hitherto been done, the
writers of this article spent several months, during the winter and
spring of 1928, in exploring that part of the Dominican Republic
which includes Samana Bay and the peninsula that lies between the
northern shore of the Bay and the Atlantic Ocean. The combined
objectives of the expedition were to recover animal bones and cultural
remains from shell heaps, kitchenmiddens and aboriginal habitation
sites, and to make general collections of the plants and vertebrates of
the region. From all points of view the work was satisfactory. De-
tailed study of the rich collections obtained cannot fail to throw new
light on the remarkable extinct or nearly extinct mammal fauna of
the island and on the history and culture of the Indians who occupied
the region before the arrival of the Spaniards.

Working from the town of Santa Barbara de Samana as our base
we first c1ossed to the caves on the uninhabited south shore of Samana
Bay. It was easy to reach the south shore by a brisk two and a half
hours’ sail with the favorable afternoon trade wind, but the return
trip during the morning calms or against the trade wind was a more
serious undertaking. On one occasion it required to hours of tacking

43
44 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

ok a ale ae

Fic. 33.—Leaving Samana for the caves located on the opposite shore of the bay,
15 miles to the southwest.

Fic. 34.—Coast near the Boca del Infierno cave, showing elevated line
ot wave cutting.

SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1928 45

and sculling. Living quarters were established in one of the larger
caves of the Playa Honda coast locally known as “ Boca del Infierno,”
the Mouth of Hell. Except for annoyance caused by the small sand
flies, living in the cave was pleasant enough, as the cave floor was
dry and the entire cavern well ventilated. Three main openings, two
of which faced the bay, and several large openings in the roof caused
by the fall of rock masses loosened by water seepage, were not suff-
ciently large to allow daylight to penetrate the entire cavern. Recourse
was had to artificial lighting, in which a curious collection of electric
lanterns, flashlights, paraffine candles, kerosene lanterns, and candle-
wood torches each played a part.

The cave selected as the expedition’s headquarters had several com-
partments, one of which served as packing room and laboratory, others
as dormitories. The laboratory was also used as kitchen and dining
room. At mealtime the bottled lizards and the plant presses were
removed from the packing box work table and were replaced by
kidney beans, rice, fish, and Dominican coffee roasted to a crisp in
sugar, pounded to a powder, and boiled interminably. The merits of
native Dominican coffee thus prepared may well be remembered if
not appreciated.

Abraham Lewis, a St. Kitts negro long established near the town
of Santa Barbara de Samana, with his two helpers, one a Dominican,
the other a deep water [English negro sailor from Jamaica, operated
the small and none too comfortable sailboat which was our only means
of communication with the outside world. The desire to work for
the Americans was so great that Abraham, in order to accommodate
his friends, was compelled to change the crew each week. This novel
form of labor turnover proved somewhat annoying to us, but it had
to be put up with for the good of the expedition.

No fresh water was found in any of the caves explored, although
a small quantity of water saturated with carbonate of lime dripped
from the cave ceiling at many points. This water, because of its lime
content, was not potable, but apparently it had been used by the
aboriginal occupants of the caves, as shards of broken earthenware
vessels and a few unbroken bowls were picked up from the floor of
the caves near the stalactites. These shards were coated with car-
bonate of lime and were not recognized as earthenware fragments
until the lime incrustations were removed. Streams of good fresh
water at places flowed from the base of the cliffs in the narrow
ravines. The nearest of these streams was two miles away from our
cave, and from it our water supply had to be brought by the sailboat
46 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Fic. 35—An undercut key near the Boca del Infierno cave. A colony of
frigate birds was nesting on the small key at the right.

Fic. 36.—San Gabriel Island, near the Boca del Infierno cave. This island
contains a large cave in which we found extensive Indian shell heaps.
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1928 47

in carboys and gasoline cans. We were plentifully supplied with
fish by Abraham and his crew who sank several fish pots of plaited
bamboo strips in the shallow water of the small bay on which our
home cave opened. The fact that fish nets had been woven and em-
ployed by the pre-Columbian Indian occupants of the caves, was
evidenced by the recovery of several net weights of notched stone
from the middens near the cave entrances.

As the “staff of life”? of the prehistoric cavemen consisted essen-
tially of the meat of the conch and other shell fish, it is of interest
to note that we were unable to find a bed of live conchs, although
careful search was made at various points. Natives professing to
know of such beds were never able to locate one although a small
number of recently dead conch shells of the same species (Strombus
pugilis Linnaeus) as those of the cave deposits were found in one of
the shallow coves near the keys. The absence of beds of live conchs
is remarkable, as the bulk of the midden material covering the cave
floors is made of these shells.

The floor of the caves is covered with a thick layer of reddish-
yellow soil. The soil is exceedingly fine grained and compact, not
at all sandy. Upon this stratum rests the layer of aboriginal kitchen
refuse. This layer is of irregular depth, greatest near the cave
entrance, but sloping down to isolated heaps at a considerable dis-
tance away.

These kitchenmiddens contain conch, clam, and other species of
shells, crab claws, mammal, fish, turtle, and bird bones cast there by
the pre-Columbian Indian cave dwellers. The bottom of the deposits
of shell is embedded in the yellowish soil, while the upper sections
are interspersed with deposits of ash, charcoal, and a small quantity
of artifacts, such as shell utensils, shards of broken pottery, and
implements of flaked stone.

Above the Indian layer lies a deposit varying from a few inches
to two feet in thickness belonging to recent historic times. This upper
culture layer is nondescript in the extreme and includes such objects
as fragments of pig, cow, and other animal bones, as well as coconut
and calabash shells. Tools of iron including a Spanish ax were re-
covered from the vicinity of improvised fireplaces. Some of the more
habitable caves are still occupied at times by Dominicans who come to
the south shore of the bay to tend their fish pots, and to work in their
small potato, coconut, and banana plantations. One large cave at the
head or western end of the bay near the mouth of the Barracote River
is occupied in season by a number of ‘‘ mangle rojo” or tanbark
INSTITUTION

SMITHSONIAN

3}

IS aSeT]IA uenf UBS ay} 0} Suro)

ae te,

"ge

‘OL

“sueIpuy
ueiquinjoj-aid 94} AG poyiqeyur seM ABD SIYT

‘OUIOyUT Jap eox0g 9y} UL dme> mO—ZE ‘dIY

SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, I 928 49

peelers, who work in the mangrove swamps during the day and find
the cave shelter a satisfactory domicile at night.

Covering much of the interior floor of the caves are large deposits
of guano which were many years ago extensively exploited for use
as fertilizer. The removal of guano disturbed some of the culture
deposits which in several instances had been removed along with the
guano. This commercial use of the cave deposits greatly hampered our
scientific investigations.

Deposition of shells in the kitchenmiddens had produced heaps of
varying thickness; but in those portions of the caves, usually near the
entrances, which were obviously devoted to culinary purposes, the
refuse heaps reached a thickness of nine feet or more. Where the
deposits had not been disturbed or removed in part by collectors of
fertilizer, excavation and systematic study of the refuse heaps was
undertaken. Obstructions due to fallen rock were negligible as the
environs of Samana Bay appear never to have suffered much from
destructive earthquakes. Only a few broken stalactites were observed.

As pointed out before, surface finds were distinctly post-Columhian,
while extensive middens containing rude artifacts of shell and bone,
and of flaked stone were identical throughout. No stratification show-
ing definitely marked differences in the culture remains were noted
except in one instance. This one exception was a clearly marked break
in the deposits of the cave on the mainland just east of the abandoned
railroad track about two-thirds kilometer inland from the shore of
San Lorenzo Bay. Here was found a layer, composed of clam and
oyster shells interspersed with mammal, bird, and fish bones and with
crab claws, forming a deposit of an average thickness of three to
five feet. As excavation continued, there was found underneath this
layer a stratum of black loamy soil approximately eight inches in
thickness. Beneath this deposit of soil was another culture deposit
four to six feet in depth which included mostly conch shells and
practically no animal bones. Crude, characteristically pre-Ciguayan
implements of shell, bone, and of flaked stone were recovered from
this lower culture deposit, while pottery shards, some of which were
decorated, and pottery food bowls were recovered from the upper
culture deposit.

The stratification here revealed appears to indicate that the cave
had been abandoned by the conch eaters to be later reoccupied by
aborigines having a preference for clams, and in general for a diet
including a variety of animal food. These later pre-Columbian cave
dwellers possessed a material culture approximating that of the
O SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

on

Fic. 39—Samana from the harbor.

Fic. 40.—Cultivation on the San Juan village site.

OD

SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, I9Q2 El

Fic. 41.—On the highway to the San Juan village site. The step-like
ridges are made by the pack-animals’ feet in wet weather.

Fic. 42.—Exeavating in the garden which now occupies the San Juan
village site.
SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

oat
i)

Ciguayan Indians who formerly occupied the north shore of Samana
Bay and who gave battle to Columbus when he entered the bay to
observe an eclipse of the moon and to take on fresh water before
returning to Spain to report his discovery of the New World.

After completing investigation and exploration of the caves, we
began the excavation of two Ciguayan village sites on the north shore,
that is, on Samana Peninsula. The Ciguayan village site at Anadel,
a point two kilometers east from the town of Santa Barbara de
Samana on the north shore of Samana Bay, was worked first. The
next project undertaken and the last of the season’s work was the
uncovering of the ancient village site of the Ciguayan chief Mayo-
banex at the mouth of the San Juan River on the north coast of the
peninsula, about 10 kilometers due north of the town of Santa Barbara
de Samana.

Anadel is but two kilometers distant from Samana, so that it was
unnecessary to make camp at the village site. Living quarters were
established at Hotel ‘‘ Bequi’”’ in Samana. Becky (Bequi) is the
daughter of an American negress who emigrated from Philadelphia
in 1820. A large number of descendants of American negroes from
3oston, Baltimore, and Philadelphia still live on the peninsula in the
vicinity of Samana. These negroes remain more American than
Dominican, although their old revival hymns are translated into
Spanish, the language of the country.

The Ciguayan village site at Anadel covers roughly a tract of five
acres although only a small portion of the site was found suitable for
excavation. A large quantity of cultural material consisting of imple-
ments of shell, stone, and bone, and of decorated pottery, together
with mammal, fish, and bird bones, was collected. Work was continued
here for a period of three weeks. Artifacts from Anadel and from
the upper culture stratum of the * Railroad ” cave on the mainland of
the south shore are sufficiently similar to justify an assumption of
tribal identity for the later aboriginal occupants of the caves and the
Indians who occupied Anadel. Such identity in types of artifacts does
not apply to the lower culture stratum from the caves. This clearly
belongs to a pre-Ciguayan population.

The most extensive Ciguayan village site explored is that located
at the mouth of the Rio San Juan. The valley of the San Juan River
is accessible by horse and bullock transportation only, as there are no
roads suited to wheel traffic. There is a deep rich soil and the clumps
of bamboo and tiny banana or plantain gardens become more numerous
as the valley broadens out near the mouth of the stream and the

SUUOJSH JO JOJO) Jo Ajloedes

SIY Ul UOT}Ipedxa oy} 0} ddURISISSR YONUT JO seM IeqAy ‘oqndoay uvsturWocy ‘BURRS
AD 4 Oa me Cae &s) ~ ms: Or; rs = (We p= ~ (ote 5,
we JouaS ‘euRWes Jo Jeqty eiouss puke JouIS—Tth “91 JO JUTAOIG 9} JO JOUIOAOY JY} ‘ADU[JOOXY SIFY—'EP “DIY
oe
at

EXPLORATIONS,

SMITHSONIAN

54. SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

north shore of the peninsula. The hills here become rougher and more
picturesque. Gabb, who was there in 1869, says that the valley is
“as wild a spot as can well be imagined; a long sand beach, ending
abruptly against a high bluff of black rocks, with the broad Atlantic
thundering against it with a ceaseless roar.” In the sixties when Gabb
visited this region the only settlement consisted of two huts. The
Smithsonian expedition found several squatters and tenants occupying
the area, but no systematic attempt at settlement and agriculture any-
where in the valley. The peninsula as a whole is undeveloped and is
almost entirely covered with native forest. If we are to judge from
the size of the midden at the Indian village site at the mouth of the
San Juan River, agriculture on the peninsula in pre-Columbian days
was more extensive than it is now.

While we worked this site we established living quarters at the
Finca de la Esperanza, an abandoned cacao plantation picturesquely
located among the mountain ridges which traverse the entire length
of the peninsula. The finca was well adapted to our purposes, being
healthfully located in a region high above the mosquito and sand-fly
infested coast. Each morning the long journey down the mountain
trail to the coast was made on the backs of the rather ill-tempered
diminutive stallions belonging to our patron and guide, John King.
The more powerful but no less sure-footed bulls carried our collections
of pottery, natural history specimens, and occasionally even a member
of the expedition back to the finca in the cool of the evening. The
success of the expedition depended in no small measure on the skillful
conduct of our menage by Mrs. Miller, who not only planned our
meals and managed the native cooks and other servants, but also acted
as official translator for our party.

HU BEER ER <PEORATION OF HATTIAN CAVES

By yA EURe I: PO @rEs

Aid, Division of Mammals, U. S. National Museum

In caves near St. Michel, Haiti, rich deposits of bones of extinct
animals were discovered in 1921 by members of the U. S. Geological
Survey, and in 1925, Mr. Gerrit S. Miller, Jr., curator of the division
of mammals, U. S. National Museum, spent about six weeks in Haiti
exploring these caves. Owing to lack of time the caves visited by
Mr. Miller were only partially worked, and after his return, when
the material obtained was worked over and identified, it was found to
be of such importance in linking the faunas that had already been
found on neighboring islands as to warrant sending a second expedition
to the group of caves located near St. Michel. This second expedi-
tion was made possible through the generosity of Dr. W. L. Abbott,
who has spent several years making biological collections on the vari-
ous islands of the West Indies, including Haiti.

In order to visit as much of Haiti as possible, | obtained passage
on a freight steamer that touched at five of Haiti’s seaport cities.
On December 8, 1927, we arrived at Cape Haitien on the north central
coast, the second largest seaport and city in Haiti. Here we were
allowed to land, and I spent several hours visiting places of interest
and incidentally picking up a few miscellaneous specimens. During
the night we arrived at our second stop, Port de Paix, situated near the
northwestern corner of the island. On the following morning we made
our first stop on the western coast at the seaport town of Gonaives,
the third largest city in Haiti. It is in Gonaives harbor that sections
of the Atlantic fleet make their headquarters during the winter
maneuvers in and around Guantanamo Bay. Most of the day was
spent visiting places of interest and gathering data to be used later
in making collections. In the evening of the 9th we arrived at St. Marc,
our fourth port, but did not have an opportunity to visit the town.
St. Mare is headquarters for the Haitian cotton crop, and has one or
two large factories for the manufacture of cotton-seed oil. On the
roth we arrived at Port-au-Prince, the capitol and largest seaport.
Here five days were spent making final arrangements and getting
together necessary supplies for the three months of collecting in the
interior.

55
50 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Re = # : ey =, - % et ‘ ots
Mex « eats Ress tite os

Ftc. 45.—Type of houses used on the Atalaye plantation by the manager
and his assistants.

Fic. 47.—Entrance to cave at San Rafael.

SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1928 57

On December 15 I arrived at the United West Indies Corporation
plantation at L’Atalaye, 156 miles by automobile north of Port-au-
Prince. Here I was made welcome and comfortable, being given a
portion of the house occupied by one of the assistants to the general
manager of the plantation. After spending a few days looking over
the grounds and collecting specimens of various kinds, work was
begun at the Atalaye group of caves known as Nos. 5, 6, and 7.
These caves, situated on top of a limestone ridge, were about 45
minutes’ walk due north from the plantation. All three of them had
rather large openings, with masses of broken rocks strewn in the
entrance. The floors in this group of caves all sloped downward, to a
depth in some cases of about 50 feet below the level of the entrance,
and consisted of a mixture of surface soil, guano, and small rocks.
In some sections of the floor the soil had become quite solid through
infiltration of lime in the water constantly dripping from the stalactites.
Shortly after my arrival at the plantation | employed four young
natives ; fortunately, two of these had previously been employed by
Mr. Miller and were somewhat experienced with this particular type
of work. By December 21 operations were in full swing, starting with
No. 5. Collecting of this nature was rather slow and tedious. First
the larger rocks had to be removed, then the soil very carefully taken
up and put through a quarter-inch mesh sieve, and from there screened
into a very fine mesh sieve, in order to catch all the smaller bones,
fragments, and tiny teeth. The large and medium-sized bones were
then picked out and the residue placed in small sacks, which were
later very carefully sorted at my headquarters on the plantation. The
small skulls, jaws, and unbroken bones were then thoroughly cleaned,
painted with a solution to prevent further breaking, and finally packed
for shipment. Six days were spent in No. 5 with but only fair results.

I had been informed of another cave about 15 miles to the north,
near San Rafael, and on December 28, made a trip there to inspect
it. This cave was rather high up on the mountain side, with an en-
trance about 40 feet wide. The ceiling was very high in most places
and the entire floor, unlike the other caves in which I later worked,
sloped upward instead of downward. Large stalactites and stalagmites
were abundant, many of them making excellent roosts for owls. Bats
were numerous in this cave, but were concealed in the high fissures
of the ceiling. Remains of bats, rats, and mice were fairly abundant
on certain sections of the floor, especially under the “ roosts.” No
collecting was done here at this time. One very large stalactite in the
San Rafael cave took the form of an angel in flight, and this the

5
58 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION .

Itc, 48—Every day is wash day with the natives. This girl is pounding
clothes in a stream-bed.

Fic. 49.—Ring in which cock fights are held. This apparently is Haiti's
national sport, as it may be seen in every village or hamlet.

SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1928 59

natives worshipped as a saint. At the base of many of the stalagmites
were crude carvings of faces, and occasional ones had legs and arms
attached to the body. In almost every cave these stalagmite masses,
with their carvings, were used as shrines for worship. Many coins of
small denomination were found which had been placed in tiny crevices
or buried in pits on the face or side of these shrines. Various articles
of food and gourds were usually placed on or near the base of the
shrines as an offering. In five of the eight caves in which I worked
were shrines and carvings, all of which showed evidence of recent use.

On December 29 I visited the second group of caves known as the
San Francisco group consisting of three separate caves. The largest
one, having two openings at the top, was divided for working pur-
poses into two sections. These caves, numbered I, 2, 3, and 4, are
situated about three miles to the west of L’Atalaye and about one mile
east of the village of St. Michel, and are all fairly well up on the
side of the limestone ridge, but not on top of the ridge as were the
Atalaye group. Cave No. 1 which had an entrance only three feet
in height by five feet in width, opened up into a fair-sized chamber
about 50 feet long and 40 feet wide. The ceiling was quite low, and
the bats did not appear to be as numerous as in some of the other
caves with higher ceilings. It proved, however, to be the best cave in
variety and value of material. Here we excavated the entire floor to
a depth of several feet. The greater part of the material was found
near the base of the walls, at depths of only a few inches below the
surface to about three feet. Besides the numerous animal bones,
human remains were also found here. The place of worship in the
rear of this cave differed somewhat from those in the others. The
loose rocks from the floor had been piled up on a protrusion of
rock, and on and around these rocks were placed many things as
offerings, such as hens’ eggs, gourds, plantains, oranges, and small
coins. Native-made candles were burned on these altars. About two
weeks were spent in completing work in this cave.

On January 16 work was started in No. 2, the largest one of either
group. This cave had a much more spacious entrance and two large
openings from the top, one near the entrance, the other at the rear.
It extended back about 175 feet with a width varying from 50 to 80
feet ; the ceiling low in front and rear, but high in the middle, some
of the fissures being about 100 feet in height. Most of the ceiling
had the appearance of a huge honey-comb. Bats were more plentiful
in this cave than any of the others. The floor was quite level except
for pits caused by the removal of guano. Most of the time during
60 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Fic. 50.—Bread market, San Michel.

Fic. 51.—Section of wall of the famous Citadelle from the inside. The
Citadelle was built by Cristophe, once emperor of northern Haiti, as a final
stronghold against the French.

SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1928 OI

my work here a large crew of natives were taking out guano for use
on the plantation, some 600 tons being removed during the season.
This cave also proved very productive of animal bones, and as in
most of the others, the best material was procured near the base of
the walls, or at the base of the huge stalagmite columns that extended
nearly to the ceiling. Just inside and to the left of the entrance were
a series of stalagmite columns, behind which were found large quanti-
ties of human remains, together with remains of the extinct small
mammals. Occasionally the bones were in a charred condition, indi-
cating that fires were built on the floor of the caves. In this cave were
several ‘‘shrines”’ for worship. The work in No. 2 occupied two
weeks.

Work was started on February 2 in the second deposit of Cave
No. 2, which for working purposes only we have called deposit No. 3.
The floor was similar to that of No. 2 except that it contained more
natural soil and less guano. A fair-sized collection was obtained under
about the same conditions as the previous ones. About 10 days were
spent in completing this cave.

No. 4, the smallest cave in which I worked, was practically depleted
of mammal remains by Mr. Miller on his visit there in 1925, and
the one day spent in this cave produced very little material.

On February 13, in company with Lieuts. Thomas and Barwick of
the U. S. Marine Corps and Mr. J. B. Lea of the United West Indies
Corporation, I set out on the mountain trails for a visit to the famous
Citadelle. Two days and nights were spent in and near the Citadelle,
where general biological collections were made. About midway be-
tween San Rafael and the Citadelle we passed through the beautiful
native village of Don-Don, situated on the edge of the Dorée River,
one of the largest rivers in Haiti, and at the base of a high and heavily
forested mountain. Upon my return, two days were spent in preparing
and packing material collected in the St. Michel group of caves.
Operations were then resumed in the Atalaye group beginning with
Cave No. 7, which proved to be very successful. This cave was
about 50 feet in depth and very steep, with large masses of broken
rock occupying a great part of the entrance and floor. Most of the
material collected here was of a smaller variety, chiefly bat skulls
and insectivore jaws. About 30 gallons of finely sifted material were
brought back from this cave unsorted, teeming with very small
mammal, bird, and reptile remains, together with small shells. The
work in this cave occupied about 10 days. No. 6, which was next in
order, took very little time to complete, as most of the soil which it
62 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

once contained had been removed for fertilizer, leaving little but rock
fragments.

On March 3 I left the plantation for a three days’ trip to Cape
Haitien where I was a guest on the National Tobacco Company’s
plantation, managed by Mr. E. J. Seager. Here a fair-sized collec-
tion of the reptiles of this region was obtained.

Three days’ work in Cave No. 5 produced only fair results. In the
cave at San Rafael a large series of jaws of a small insectivorous
mammal were obtained, together with other mammal and bird re-

Fic, 52.—Old cannon in the Citadelle.

mains. One day was spent at Diquini Cave, situated about four miles
south of Port-au-Prince, where a few specimens were secured, and
on March a1 I sailed for New York.

The success of this expedition was due largely to the kindness of
Dr. G. F. Freeman of the Service Technique, who furnished trans-
portation facilities from Port-au-Prince to L’Atalaye ; Colonel Myers
of the U. S. Marine Corps; Mr. G. G. Burlingame, president of the
United West Indies Corporation, who extended the hospitality of
the plantation at L’Atalaye; and to Mr. Henry Morales, manager
of the plantation at L’Atalaye, who rendered assistance during my
entire stay in Haiti.

TEE ACH ANGEO-LGYPIIAN SUDAN EXPEDITION

3y W. L. BROWN,
Chief Taxidermist, U. S. National Museuin

In January, 1928, a party of big game hunters consisting of Mr. and
Mrs. William Beach, Mr. Marcus Daly, and Mr. Osgood Field, sailed
for the Anglo-Egyptian Sudan, Africa, and it was my good fortune
to accompany the expedition as a representative of the Smithsonian
Institution. Sailing January 4 from Hoboken, we arrived at our
base, Khartoum, just three weeks later. Although desert-beset, this
is a most beautiful city, for we find shady palm groves and lovely
gardens of poinsettias, zinnias, roses, and other gorgeous flowers. A
strange feature of the landscape here is the fact that the very large
trees have the smallest leaves and the smallest trees have the largest
leaves.

Next door to the Grand Hotel, where the party stopped, is the
Zoological Garden, which contains many interesting specimens of ani-
mal and bird life. Some of the animals, such as gazelles and antelopes,
and the larger birds, are allowed to roam at will over the garden. Here

I saw the rarest sight that I shall probably ever see—a group of seven
shoe-bill storks. Had I visited the garden on the previous day I should
have seen eight instead of seven, for the assistant game warden told
me that on the day before, one of them had gotten into the elephant
pen and had been stepped on by the big pachyderm.

We remained in Khartoum five days, securing permits to hunt and
awaiting our boat, the Lord Cromer, which had been chartered by the
party from the Sudan Government for use as living quarters during
the hunt. It was about 100 feet long, and was manned by a crew
of Egyptians and native Sudanese.

Leaving Khartoum February 1, we traveled about a mile up the
Blue Nile and then entered the White Nile. For a day and a night
we passed through the Nile “sudd,” an uninteresting and tiresome
journey. By sudd is meant the enormous growth of papyrus and
other aquatic plants encroaching upon and partly obstructing the river.
No animal life can be seen here—only high walls of the vegetable
barrier. During the rest of the journey up the river to Rejaf, the head-
waters of the Nile and the end of navigation, we stopped at practically
all the larger villages from Khartoum to Rejaf.

63
cena IEE

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

)

PAL iit me
Fil peguen rT

Fic. 54—My working quarters on the Lord Cromer.

SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1928 65

About two days’ journey from Khartoum we saw our first hippo,
and from that time on we saw hundreds, including many little fellows
on the backs of their mothers. Crocodiles in great numbers, sunning
themselves on the banks, could also be seen. From Bor to Rejaf we
saw more than a hundred elephants. A big bull elephant whose tusks
weighed gg pounds was shot by one of the hunters near Bor. The
Nile River is practically alive with fish of many varieties, the prize
among which is the Nile perch, said to grow to a weight of 200
pounds. The perch are caught with live bait or by spooning, and

tor

#. & e.
a FS

We 8 cs 2
FP iat he
oo ee ome
« on a
a Fe]
eee af
ee

hie ee 2 : BS 9 ; '§ ao
ents 42> warm t? tay Xe

Fic. 55.—Roan antelope at Gemeiza.

furnish excellent food. Two of the strangest fish are the electric
catfish and the lung fish.

The plant life of the Sudan is meager ; except at Khartoum, where
irrigation is practiced, few plants and flowers are found. Bird life,
however, is most abundant along the Nile, possibly more abundant than
in any other locality. I think it is no exaggeration to say that I saw
millions of birds, among them weaver finches, bee-eaters, marabou and
jabiru storks, kingfishers, various ibises, river eagles, white-faced
tree-ducks, herons of many kinds, stone-curlews, horn-bills, shoe-bill
and open-billed storks, egrets, various kinds of cranes and geese, and
66

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

ic. 56—Mr. Osgood Field with his first buffalo at

Fic. 57.—Our guide at Pariak.

Pariak.

SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1928 67

numerous others. It was my exceedingly rare privilege to see three
shoe-bill storks in the wild state while passing through the Bahr-
el-Zeraf.

One could not visit Africa without being convinced that the “‘ ants ”’
are of great importance there. Though called ants, they are really
termites: the homes they build are sometimes Io or 15 feet high and
as many feet in width.

Because of the overflow of the Nile, during the spring season, the
soil along its banks is very fertile, and native villages and farms are

Fic, 58.—Natives at Pariak.

almost continuous along the river. The principal crop is durra, a grain
corresponding to our wheat.

The Shuluks, Dinkas, and Neurs are the three principal tribes living
along the Nile between Khartoum and Rejaf. The men are tall of
stature, but the women are short, though of very good build. In the
morning they could be seen carrying jars or tin cans on their heads,
coming to the river for the day’s supply of water.

During a period of about 20 days we collected 270 specimens of
bird and animal life, to say nothing of the 35 large trophies taken by
the sportsmen. Material for a gazelle group was obtained, together
with all necessary accessories, such as earth, ant-hills, thorn-bushes,
and palms. Incidental collecting included turtle shells, fish, insects,
68

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Fic. 59.—Dinka cattle village of Upper Nile.

Fic. 60.—An elephant shot by Mr. Marcus Daly near Bor.
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1928

“Q 94} Ul UOTIIqIyxXs UO MOU SI

‘uIMasnyy [euoTeN
dnois payunow sf “pj poosso “Ayy Aq JOYS Sopjazegj—1g “oL]

70 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

nests, shells, and woods. Fifteen thousand feet of moving picture
film of native and wild animal life and goo still pictures were taken.
Among the interesting animals seen during the expedition were
elephants to the number of over a hundred, lions, antelopes, water-
bucks, kobs, monkeys, baboons, hippos, crocodiles, wart-hogs, buffaloes,
gazelles, giraffes, zebras, reed-bucks, serval cats, and birds of many
varieties, including the rare shoe-bill stork.

We were not permitted to go through the Bahr-el-Ghazal because
of local trouble with the natives known as Neurs. This fact unfortu-
nately excluded us from one of the best hunting grounds in the |

Sudan.

EXPLORATIONS FOR MOLEUSKS IN CUBA UNDER THE
WALTER RATHBONE, BACON, TRAVELLING
SCHOMARSETE

BAe EVAL, VANE SCIEE
Curator, Division of Mollusks, U. S. National Museum

The granting of the Walter Rathbone Bacon Travelling Scholarship
for 1928-29 to me by the Smithsonian Institution made possible much-
needed field investigations prior to the publication of reports upon the
land and fresh water mollusk fauna of the West Indies. It was the
desire of the late Mr. John B. Henderson, a Regent of the Smithsonian
Institution, to prepare a report upon this fauna, to the study of which
he devoted more than a quarter of a century of available time as well
as considerable money for the financing of various expeditions, in
many of which I had a part. Mr. Henderson’s untimely death inter-
rupted the project, and it has become my aim to see it carried out.

Under the Walter Rathbone Bacon Travelling Scholarship the
least known parts of the West Indies will be subjected to a hasty
reconnaissance. The island of Cuba was known to harbor a large
number of molluscan treasures not contained in the collection of the
U. S. National Museum, and it was therefore chosen for a first
attack. On the War Department’s huge topographic map of Cuba
were marked the known collecting grounds and the blank hills from
which no collections were at hand. Localities to be given attention
were selected after a consideration of the geologic features; for the
substrate, whether composed of limestone or serpentine, determines
whether a visit will result in a rich harvest in the case of the former,
or disappointment in the case of the latter.

The next step was to get in touch with Dr. Carlos de la Torre,
President Emeritus of the University of Havana, and the foremost
student of Cuban mollusks, who has agreed to join the author in
making known the molluscan treasures of the ‘‘ Pearl of the Antilles.”
We set out early in June for the western end of the island, subjecting
first those parts of Pinar del Rio Province to such scrutiny as seemed
desirable.

A word about the problems connected with our work may not be
out of place here. The first consideration was the collecting of ma-
terial to form the basis for a monograph. This included the securing

7a
2 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Fic. 62.—Ensenada Vinales, looking toward the Puerta del Ancon which
is represented by the gap in the left of the background. The indentation
to the right of this is the Cove of Delight.

Fic. 63.—A glimpse of the home of Chondropoma hendersoni,
Costanera del Abra.
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1928 72

of specimens in type localities to decide the systematic status of
previously described forms; the securing of new material to make
the monograph under preparation as complete as possible; making
descriptions in the field of the living animals, including color notes ;
and the collecting of anatomic material to help elucidate the relation-
ship of the various groups. The collections thus obtained will enable
us to give not only an account of the fauna, but also the range of the
individual species, and this in turn will make an interesting contribu-
tion to the study of zoogeography.

Another important field of study was the intimate relationship, as
well as the differentiation, presented by the mogote faunas. As an
example of this may be mentioned the faunas of the Tertiary lime-
stone mogotes south of the Organ Mountains which present a splendid
basis for studies in heredity, a problem constantly borne in mind.

It was proposed also to trace these faunas to their probable origin
in geologic times, and to see if the living material could be used as
horizon markers for geologic formations. Collections were made of
fresh water mollusks, some of which serve as intermediate hosts for
parasitic worms of man and animals of economic importance, and the
hydrogen ion conditions under which these exist were determined, in
the hope that here, as in Japan at our suggestion, ways may be found
for their control or eradication by a change of the hydrogen ion condi-
tions in the water which they inhabit.

We chose the rainy season in spite of its discomforts, for it is at
this time that land mollusks which have dug in deeply into nooks
and crannies and rocky crevices, or under the rock slides of talus
slopes, are tempted by the moist atmosphere to emerge from their
estivation and take up life anew. It is at this time that the paredones
are swarming with feeding and mating animals, while in the dry season
little of molluscan life would be in evidence. Although collecting
at this time entailed almost daily drenchings, the joy occasioned by
obtaining choice living material in abundance causes one to forget
the discomforts of soaked clothing.

Western Cuba is beautiful. Its dissected limestone mountains with
their tropical flora are ever picturesque. Even now as I write, rock
rimmed hoyos or ensenadas teeming with molluscan riches rise before
me, and I seem to hear the song of the Cuban solitaire filtering down
from the higher reaches to convert the whole into an enchanting scene,
for be it remembered that the solitaire challenges the efforts of the
nightingale.

6
74 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Fic. 64.—Puerta del Ancon, a favorite collecting ground in
Pinar del Rio Province.

Fic. 65.—Along the highway between Havana and Matanzas. Dr. de la
Torre and Mrs. Bartsch looking for the tree snails Liguus, which are
abundant in the flamboyant trees bordering the road.
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1928 75

The use of automobiles, small tents, cots, and alcohol cooking stove
simplified our transportation, housing, and food problems. In Pinar
del Rio Province we made headquarters at Taburete, San Diego
Banos, Pinar del Rio, Vinales, Banos San Vicente, and Luis Lazo,
from which centers we radiated in all directions. Where the auto-
mobile was unable to carry us, we traveled on horseback or on foot.

In the western end of the island we have a lowland coastal plain
fauna, consisting of a restricted number of species of rather wide
distribution, which follow the shore lines where they occupy every suit-
able location. Then we have an equally widely distributed scattered
fauna of the grass lands and cultivated plains best represented in the
hedge rows and fence corners which are less disturbed by the machete
and the plow. By far the greater in number and the most interesting is
the calciphil fauna which is restricted to the limestone outcrops of the
mountains and hills. Here one finds the Urocoptids, sometimes hun-
dreds in the space of a square yard, fixed by their aperture with a
dried mucous film to the sun-exposed, apparently barren face of the
limestone cliffs. In the little more shaded portions of the same block,
a number of species of Helicinids and Annulariids are sure to be
found, while scratching among the talus débris at the base of the cliff
will yield Pleurodonte, Microceramus, Oleacina, Cepolis, Megalo-
mastoma, Subulina, and Geomelania. Where brush and timber cover
these hills, Liguus, the large, brilliantly colored tree snail, may be seen
fixed to the trunks or branches like some showy flower.

It was most interesting to observe the extreme isolation and limited
range of some of these forms; for example, Chondropoma hendersom
Torre, the showiest of the Annulariids, is restricted to the upper
summit portion of the Costanera del Abra. All the specimens so far
collected have been a few living individuals that probably had ventured
to climb up on some exposed plant or rock, from which a sudden gust
of wind or some other agency may have dislodged them and started
them on their downward course which eventually placed them within
the reach of the collector. We secured only three living specimens,
but gathered a number of dead shells on the talus slope at the base of
the unscalable paredones. Even these dead shells are to be found only
at the base of the cliff, in a space about the length of a city square,
and this in spite of the fact that the bold face of the mountain extends
for several miles.

Contrasting with this is Chondropoma sagebieni Poey, which we
find on the exposed limestone bluffs ranging from Mendoza east to
San Diego Banos. This species and its associates tell a wonderful
SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

oe

Fic. 66.—An undisturbed group of Cerion infandum at Punta Sabanilla,
Matanzas Province.

Fic. 67.—A glimpse of the Yumeri Valley, Matanzas Province.

SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1928 FG)

story. They are true Calciphils, that is, lovers of limestone, and are
restricted and dependent upon exposed limestone surfaces. They are
absolutely unable to exist in the meadows or grasslands, and yet we
find them in every suitable habitat of all the Tertiary mogotes scattered
throughout the range mentioned above. Their distribution must date
back to the days following the Oligocene uplift when they were able
to travel over an unbroken surface throughout their present range.
Since then the tooth of time has been busily engaged in returning to
the sea her treasures, and wherever you look, you see the process in
action. There are still extensive areas of rugged blocks with bold
escarpments in places, while in others the paredones have been reduced
to the size of a door, but by far the greater area has yielded completely
to the force of erosion.

Wherever there is still a bit of limestone showing, there one may
find Chondropoma sagebieni and its associates, usually sufficiently
modified by their long isolation and inbreeding to present certain fixed
characters that will enable the careful student to recognize these
isolated colonials, even when removed from their home. To the
student of genetics, Western Cuba presents a wonderful and gigantic
laboratory in which nature has been conducting her experiments in
heredity on a lavish scale.

Havana Province for the greater part is low and under cultivation,
but the Jaruco Mountain complex in the northeastern portion of the
province, Sitio Bonilla and Sitio Perdido, present a veritable labyrinth
of limestone blocks and strings of blocks and paredones. Here we
found the differentiation of Urocoptids simply marvelous, the shells
varying from short to long, thick to thin, and smooth to ribbed and
hollow ribbed, and it will be years before the last subspecies will have
been made known from this region.

In Matanzas Province we made the city of Matanzas our head-
quarters. We covered the northern part by automobile, penetrating as
far east as Cardenas and southeast to Banos de los San Miguel. Two
things are outstanding in our memory

the visits to Fundador and
to the Yumeri Valley. Fundador may be called the “ Cradle of Cuban
Malacology,” for it was here that Dr. Louis Pfeiffer, Dr. Juan Gund-
lach and Dr. Otto, three enthusiastic young German naturalists, came
in 1839, Pfeiffer with the intention of making an exhaustive study of
the Cuban mollusks in three months; Gundlach to get acclimated be-
fore going to Surinam; and Otto, looking for medicinal plants.
These men collected a large amount of material about Fundador and
the adjacent region which was described by Pfeiffer. Gundlach fell
78 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Fic. 68.—Portion of a colony of Urocoptids, showing their abundance and
method of occurrence at Vista Allegre, Matanzas Province.

!
|
|

SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1928 79

in love with the island and, instead of continuing his journey west-
ward, remained here for the rest of his days excepting a short stay
in Porto Rico during one of Cuba’s political upheavals. Gundlach
is in reality the father of Cuban natural history, for through his efforts
probably more organisms of the island were made known than through
those of all the other naturalists taken together. The visit to Fundador
therefore was in reality a pilgrimage to an historic shrine. The old
walls are still standing, but the picturesque palm thatched roof has
given way to the ever-evident American corrugated iron. The fields
once teeming with coffee plantations are now only grazing grounds,
but the old Ceiba tree beneath whose shade our naturalists must have
foregathered, was still standing in the foreground, while through the
feathery tops of royal palms Pan Palenque and Pan Matanzas rear
their towering blue masses in the distance above the plain, and beckon
as they did in the days of long ago. We secured topotypes of all
Pfeiffer’s species but one.

Yumeri Valley, designated by Baron von Humboldt as the most
beautiful in the world, was next subjected to a close scrutiny. The rim
of limestone mountains encompassing this valley harbors an exceed-
ingly rich molluscan fauna. Of particular interest were the inhabitants
of the small mogotes, the blocks of limestone frequently separated only
by a stone’s throw from the main ridge, and yet containing a faunula
distinct from the parent range. One of these small blocks not larger
than an ordinary house, harbors the exquisite Chondropoma_ pres-
sasiana.

In Santa Clara Province we worked westward from Sagua La
Grande to Coralillo along the north coast, and east to El Purio near
Calabazar. From Remedio we worked the hills all about, south to
Zuluete and Los Sierras, and north to Caibarien and along the coast
range from Caibarien to the Sierra de Jatibonico.

After excursions from Vega Alta as far north as Calabazar and
south to Trinidad, our party set out for Camaguay Province. From
Punta Allegre we secured passage on a little sailing schooner for
Turigano Island. This was a marvelous cruise, threading our way
through intricate channels among the numerous mangrove islands and
endless mud flats teeming with flocks of gorgeous flamingoes, a number
of species of herons and terns, as well as ibises and cormorants.

At Turigano the staff of the American Company that has placed
the island under plantain cultivation assisted in every way to make
our stay a success. Here we discovered a brilliantly orange-colored
Liguus which is most likely the ancestor of the orange element in the
8o SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Florida tree snail. From Turigano we proceeded to Moron and then
to Cunagua, and we next made our headquarters at Central Jaronu
on the north side of the Cubitas Mountains. Here we were greatly
assisted by the officials of the Central who placed gasoline motor cars
and horses at our disposal. From here we were able to explore Paso
Tinaja, Paso Escalera, and Paso Lesca.

The last point of vantage was at Central Senado on the south
side of the Cubitas Mountains. Here we reached the high-water
mark of our endeavors. With the aid of gasoline cars, automobiles,

.

Fic. 69—A glimpse of the bluffs bordering the Canimar River at Fundador,
a type locality of Pfeiffer.

horses, and an able guide placed at our disposal by Sr. Jorge B.
Sanchez, we explored Loma Sta. Cruz, Caridad de Mendoza, and
Los Corrales de Cangilones, as well as the paredones bordering
Paso Vereda de Burro, Paso Guanaja, and Paso Paredones, in each
of which were made a number of stations. These passes cut through
the east end of the Cubitas Mountains and separate them into a series
of limestone blocks. The walls rising to a height of several hundred
feet are covered with ferns and palms and other tropical vegetation
that would delight a botanist’s heart, while the birds would fascinate
an ornithologist, and nowhere in our entire Cuban experience did we
find molluscan life as abundant as here.

SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1928 SI

Fic. 70.—A glimpse of the beautiful Bay at Punta Allegre, Camaguay
Province, a favorite collecting ground of Gundlach.

ae

easy es taste

Fic. 71.—A glimpse of the canal between Laguna de Leche and Moron,
Camaguay Province. The bird on the bow of the boat is the Cuban sandhill
crane.
82 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

In closing this account, I wish to express my thanks first of all to
the Smithsonian Institution for granting the Fellowship, which has
yielded more than 250,000 specimens to the U. S. National Museum ;
to Dr. Carlos de la Torre and through him to all the Cuban Govern-
mental Agencies whose endorsements opened the gates to us wherever
we went; to our Embassy and Consular office in Havana; to the
officials of the University of Havana for assigning to us a laboratory

Fic. 71a.—Dr. Juan Gundlach, the father of Cuban
natural history.

at the Poey Museum; to Professor Guillermo Aguayo, Dr. Pedro
sermudez, and Sr. Emilio Portuondo; to Mrs. Bartsch, whose pres-
ence and ever-ready help during our western campaign made this a
most delightful experience; to Mr. H. N. Lowe, of Los Angeles,
California; and to Mr. Ray Greenfield, a Boy Scout of Washington,
who proved of great assistance throughout the entire campaign.
Thanks are also extended to the many men throughout the island
who, with true Cuban hospitality, lent a helping hand whenever
possible to make our work a success.

ane

tee CERION BREEDING EXPERIMENTS AT
tae TORTUGAS

By PAUL BARTSCH,
Curator, Division of Mollusks, U. S. National Museuna

For the past 16 years I have conducted experiments in heredity
through the cross-breeding of mollusks of the genus Cerion at the
Marine Biological Laboratory of the Carnegie Institution at the
Tortugas, Florida. My visit to the station this year was a short one;
I arrived on August 17, 1928, and left with the Dohrn on the closing
of the laboratory August 20. However, sufficient time was granted me
in this period to make the examination of the Cerion colonies. A
careful examination of the contents of the little artificial islands, on
each of which a specimen of two species are segregated for possible
cross-breeding, showed the presence of some young individuals, but
no adult hybrids.

An examination of the cut-down cages, however, revealed one
adult of the much looked-for cross between Cerion viaregis and
C. incanum. It will be remembered that considerable criticism was
expressed because, in my original crossing experiments, I had em-
ployed large groups (500 individuals) of each of the two species, and
doubt was expressed as to whether the organisms which I claimed to
be crosses were really crosses. Some of my critics held that they might
be mutations of one of the two species involved. To settle this, the
individual cage and island method was resorted to. These restricted
areas were stocked with a virgin individual of each of the two species
mentioned above. The results were what I expected, a perfect vindica-
tion of the mass experiment, for the adult hybrid obtained in the cage
is in every way identical with those secured from the mass experiment
on New Found Harbor Key. This of course was to be expected, for
in no colony of C. viaregis or C. incanum has any form appeared
comparable in appearance to the hybrids in question. Thousands upon
thousands of specimens were examined in all these colonies, and never
once has an individual turned up which might have given one the
slightest doubt as to the specific identity of the individual in question.

While at the Tortugas I had sufficient time to spend part of a day
under water with the diving hood and the undersea camera, going over
the fields photographed in the years gone by, in order to have a con-
tinuous record of what is happening on the reefs impressed upon
photographic film.

83
SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Fic. 72—Top figure: the hybrid Cerion from Loggerhead Key. Second
row: the hybrid Cerion from Newfound Harbor Key. Third row: Cerion
incanum. Fourth row: Cerion viaregis, the last two being the parents of
the above.

HHB-CRU st ACE ASO BEAUPORT, NORTH CAROLINA
By WALDO L. SCHMITT,

Curator, Division of Marine Invertebrates, U. S. National Museum
AND
CLARENCE R. SHOEMAKER,

Assistant Curator of the Division

One rare American species of crustacea (Callichirus major Say)
is known only through an incomplete specimen in the National
Museum and two “arms ” in the British \[useum of Natural History.
The Washington specimen came to the Museum from Beaufort, North
Carolina, and in an effort to add to the information regarding it,
and also to study the other crustacea of the region including the
wholly undescribed amphipods, we undertook a short trip in Septem-
ber, 1928, to the U. S. Bureau of Fisheries Laboratory at Beaufort,
in company with Mr. Boon C. Indrambarya of Siam, who was at that
time studying the Museum’s crustacean collections.

The type locality of Callichirus major was given by Say as “ the
bay shore of the river St. John in East Florida,” and it was said by
him to be common along the coast of the Southern States. Unfortu-
nately, however, a thorough search at Beaufort failed to reveal any
specimens of this greatly desired species. We were able though to
dig out a number of Upogebia affinis Say, a related form, and to ob-
serve the nature of the flats occupied by them, and to trace at least
one burrow more or less completely. Two specimens were found in
this burrow, the lower of these being found in the blind end of a
more or less perpendicular diverticulum of the tunnel system, about
18 inches below the surface. Otherwise the greater part of the burrow,
which was apparently not very extensive, seemed to lie in a plane
about five inches below the surface. One upper terminus was dug
out and saved. As the tunnel approached this opening at the surface
it became constricted, in a space of about two inches, from a usual
diameter throughout of about 2 of an inch to one of about 4’; of an
inch at the point of egress. This remarkably narrow opening Dr.
Schmitt has found also in the burrow of another species of the same
genus. In view of the consistency of the compacted sandy mud, the
burrow must have been begun while the animals were yet small,
and then enlarged from within as the occupants grew. The original
point of ingress, or the opening placing the tunnel system in com-
munication with the outer world, is not large enough to permit the

85
86 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Fic. 73—A few of the myriads of fiddler crabs that inhabit the mud flats
about Beaufort. (Photograph by Indrambarya. )

Fic. 74.—Oyster reef at Gallant Point. (Photograph by Indrambarya.)
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1928 87

Fic. 75.—The U. S. Bureau of Fisheries Station on Piver’s Island, as seen
from the town of Beaufort. (Photograph by Shoemaker. )

a

Fic. 76.—A section of the Beaufort waterfront. (Photograph by Shoemaker. )
8s SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

passage of the full grown animals found in the burrows. Apparently
they spend a considerable portion, if not all, of their lives wholly
within the one and original burrow. When excavated animals are
released on the mud flats, they enter the first worm or clam hole
encountered and dig in at once.

In four days’ work at the station, some 1,300 specimens of marine
invertebrates were secured for the national collections. The bulk of
those collections consisted of amphipods, a group of the local fauna
which is wholly unworked. The earlier naturalists who collected at

Fic. 77.—Searching for burrowing crustacea, Gallant Point.
(Photograph by Shoemaker. )

Kort Macon and vicinity appear never to have studied their amphipods,
while the later ones seem even to have neglected collecting them. It
is planned to use this material as a nucleus for a report on the
Amphipoda of Beaufort and vicinity, though a great deal more col-
lecting for amphipods needs yet to be done before the region can be
said to have been covered for these forms with any degree of com-
pleteness. The present collections are only from the shallow water.

We wish to express our appreciation to the U. S. Bureau of
Fisheries for accommodations and facilities so generously provided
at the station, and in particular to Dr. S. F. Hildebrand, the director,
for his personal interest and assistance in our work.

FURTHER OBSERVATIONS ON THE NATURAL
HISTORY OF THE NORTH SHORE OF THE
GULF OFSST. LAWRENCE

By JAMES O. MALONEY,
Aid, Division of Marine Invertebrates, U. S. National Museum

With the object of carrying forward the natural history investiga-
tions begun the previous year by Mr. and Mrs. Paul Bowman, under
the joint auspices of Mr. Copley Amory and the Smithsonian Institu-
tion, the writer was enabled through a continuance of Mr. Amory’s
kind offices to spend three and one-half weeks, beginning July 13,
1928, at Matamek River, Province of Quebec, Canada, studying and
collecting the invertebrate fauna of the region, with especial refer-
ence to the crustacea.

As dredging facilities were not available this season, collections of
the marine forms particularly desired were confined largely to the
intertidal zone, and to an examination of the stomach contents and
intestines of fish taken by hook, net, and trap. Collecting for terres-
trial forms of invertebrates and the examination of fresh-water ponds
and streams were also undertaken. From these several sources over
1,200 specimens were secured, including marine invertebrates, chiefly
crustacea, echinoderms, and mollusks, as well as parasitic worms,
fishes, and insects.

A striking feature of the coast line along the Matamek shores 1s
the extreme smoothness of the rocks, caused by the grating of the
ice during the long winters. As a result very few barnacles were
found and then only in sheltered places. Likewise the algal growth
was very scanty, probably accounting for the scarcity of crustaceans,
other than amphipods. The latter were to be found everywhere
and in great numbers, both in point of species and individuals. They
form the chief crustacean element in the marine fauna of the region.
No terrestrial or fresh-water crustacea were observed.

In the course of my return to Washington, the first week of August
was spent at Seven Islands, a small village some 30 miles south of
Matamek River, where limited collections were made. The fauna is
virtually identical with that existing in the Matamek region. Labora-
tory studies on the material collected in both regions are now in
progress.

7 $9
Fic. 79.—The “ residence’

Seti : 5) SS
Fic. 78.—The “factory” on Mr. Copley
Amory’s estate on Matamek River. This build-
ing functions as a boat house below, while on
the upper floor is the working laboratory and
storage for boat-dredges and fishing gear.

me > aes

a rena

nia i ex

J

and outbuildings at Matamek River. The labora-
tory is but a few steps to the right of this group of buildings.

Fre. 80—Coast line at Matamek River, showing nature of intertidal zone.
90

ee
BRINGING TO AMERICA THE BAKER COLLECTION
OF MALAYAN INSECTS

By R. A. CUSHMAN,

Assistant Custodian of Hymenoptera, U. S. National Museum

One of the greatest collectors of insects of all time died at Manila,
P. I., on July 22, 1927. He was Charles Fuller Baker, dean of the
College of Agriculture of the University of the Philippines. By his
will all of his entomological collections, which he had accumulated
during a residence of 15 years in the Oriental Tropics, principally
in the Philippines, and the correspondence and other papers relating
thereto were left to the U. S. National Museum on condition that
the Museum send someone to Los Bajios to attend to the packing and
shipping. Having been assigned this duty I left Washington on Octo-
ber 3, 1927, armed with pinning forceps and paraffine paper and what
I fatuously expected to be an adequate supply of insect pins and
fumigating chemicals. At Seattle I purchased five bales (about 800
lbs.) of excelsior, which I also fatuously expected to be sufficient.

On October 11 I sailed from Seattle on the American Mail Liner
President Jefferson. For the first week Neptune was unkind and many
of the passengers, including myself, were correspondingly uncom-
fortable, but thereafter we enjoyed a very pleasant voyage. Among
the passengers was Dr. Joseph F. Rock, the famous botanist-explorer,
who, accompanied by two of his “ boys,” was embarking on another
trip into the wild mountainous country of Western China. My
acquaintance with him was most pleasant and profitable. We arrived
at Yokohama two days late because of the storms encountered, and
so had a very limited stay. From here I took the opportunity of
visiting Tokio, where I had a delightful two hour stroll about the
streets and parks with Dr. S. I. Kuwana, the famous Japanese
entomologist. After stops at Kobe, Shanghai (where Dr. Rock left
us), and Hong Kong we reached Manila on November 3.

At the gang plank I was met by Dr. Robert L. Pendleton, adminis-
trator of the Baker estate and professor of soils at the College of
Agriculture. From that moment until I left Manila for home Dr.
Pendleton let no opportunity pass to assist me in my task and its
attendant problems or to make my stay in the Islands comfortable,
enjoyable, and profitable. After the formalities of the customs, dis-

onl
g2 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Fic. 81.—Charles Fuller Baker, whose great collection of Malayan insects
is the subject of this article, as he appeared shortly before his death.
(Photograph by Sun Studio, Manila, P. I.) |

Fic. 82—4, Dr. Robert L. Pendleton, administrator of the Baker estate. B, The

Pendleton home

oD)

FE, Kurajigui. F, A royal palm-lined avenue on the campus of the College of

Agriculture, with the Administration Building in the distance.

93

and mine during my stay in the Philippines. C, Fidel, Ney San,
and Kurajigui. D, Mt. Maquiling, a collecting ground made famous by Baker.
94 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

posal of baggage, etc., we drove the forty-odd miles to Los Banos,
and inspected the Baker house and collection, and by early afternoon
I was installed as a member of the household of Dr. Pendleton.

During the long interval between the death of Dean Baker and my
arrival at Los Banos, Dr. Pendleton had daily visited the home of
Baker, where the collection was housed, and had made frequent in-
spections of the walls, floors and partitions for termite injury. In
addition he kept in the service of the Baker estate two of Baker’s
employees, Kurajigui, a Japanese handyman, and Fidel Agoba, a
Filipino collector. Under his orders these two faithful retainers had
maintained watchful guard over the house day and night, keeping
brazier fires during rainy and cloudy weather, replacing weakened
timbers when necessary, and in every way preserving the premises
and the collection in good condition against the arrival of the repre-
sentative of the National Museum to take over the responsibility.

Baker’s house was a modification of the native house with swali
(split bamboo matting) walls and corrugated iron roof instead of
the nipa thatch still commonly used by the natives. It stood on stilts
about eight feet above the ground, and was floored partly with split
bamboo lath. The windows were of a marine shell used almost uni-
versally in the better homes instead of glass, and the ceilings were of a
finer weave of swali. It was about 24 by 30 feet with a swali partition
down the middle and two cross partitions, dividing it into one room
occupying one-half of the floor space and three small rooms in the
other half, each of these small rooms opening into the main room or
sala but not connected with each other. His growing collection, library,
and card files had gradually encroached on the domestic arrangements
of his house until at the end these were limited to a rickety bamboo
bed at one end of the sala and an old-fashioned washstand in a
corner of one of the small rooms. At the rear was a bamboo porch
partly occupied by a storeroom for packing material, alcohol, kerosene,
etc. From one end of the porch an elevated passageway led diagonally
to a small house where lived Kurajigui and his wife, Ney San, and
where Baker ate the meals prepared for him by Ney San.

In these surroundings, far less comfortable than those of many
of the natives who worked and studied under him at the college, and
much of the time in very bad health, Baker brought together the
greatest collection of Malayan insects ever assembled, occupying well
over 1,400 Schmitt boxes, collections of shells and fungi, and a cata-
logue of Homoptera estimated to comprise 100,000 cards all written
by his own hand. In addition to this he carried on a correspondence

SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1928 9g

oat

FrG. 83.—Baker’s home and workshop. Left to right are Kurajigui, Ney San,
and Fidel.

Fic. 84.—Baker’s next door neighbor. In the picture are bananas, cocoanut and
areca palms, bamboos, and many other plants.
96 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

avncemwen ere ©

Fic. 85—The main room or sala in Baker’s house. Note the bamboo lath
floor. The walls, ceiling, bed, and bookcase are also of bamboo. (Photo-
graph by R. L. Pendleton.)

Frc. 86—The room where Baker did his entomological work, showing
part of the insect boxes. Two other rooms contained even more boxes.
Note the shell window at left. (Photograph by R. L. Pendleton. )

SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1928 97

with and sent specimens for identification to specialists all over the
world, writing all of his letters by hand. All of this work was carried
on in time outside of his official duties at the college and many other
activities in which he took part.

On the morning after my arrival at Los Banos the work of pre-
paring the collection for packing began. A brief general examination
showed that every pin (about 300,000) would have to be set more
deeply in the cork lining of the boxes, and that some specimens,
comparatively few in percentage of the whole but in the aggregate a
considerable number, would have to be cleaned of mold and verdigris.
Kurajigui and Fidel soon acquired the requisite skill in handling the
forceps and in cleaning the specimens but it required practically a
month for the three of us to finish this portion of the work, which
also involved the use of many thousands of extra pins for bracing
large specimens and such as were loose on the pins. Fidel, who had
been suffering from some eye trouble, had stuck to the task up to this
time, but had to give up here and Kurajigui and I finished the job.

In the meantime I placed an order for the requisite number of
packing cases with the Insular Lumber Company. These were sold to
me at such a price that the cost of manufacture amounted to a gift
to the project, and this was but one instance of the attitude displayed
toward the matter by nearly everyone with whom [ had dealings.

The next three operations in the preparation of the Schmitt boxes
for packing were carried on concurrently. In order to prevent so far
as possible the formation of mold, which in the tropics is controlled
only with great difficulty, each box was opened to the full sunlight
for about Io minutes. Before being closed it was given a dose of a
saturated solution of paradichlorobenzine and naphthalene in carbon
tetrachloride, closed immediately and, while still hot, wrapped in heavy
paraffine paper sealed with a hot flatiron. These operations could
be carried on only for four or five hours during the heat of the day,
and were further slowed up by the many cloudy days that intervened.

Time unsuitable for sunning boxes was devoted to the nailing to-
gether of the packing cases, which had been delivered in the form of
“ shooks,” and providing them with rope handles. I nearly lost caste
in the eyes of the natives because | worked on this job with Kurajigui
instead of letting him do it alone.

When the sunning and wrapping of the insect boxes was finished
they were tied into bundles of five and wrapped in another sheet of
paraffine paper. Three of these bundles were tied together with heavy
sea island cotton cord and packed in a case with about 20 pounds of
excelsior. After packing the first few boxes I suddenly realized with
juawidinbs 24} pue surjeas pue suidde1iM oy} ut sdaqS ‘yy “yoeI suruuns

2)

c|

INSTITUTION

SMITHSONIAN

‘suid o0eiq ZZ1 posinbat xoq sIyy, “yJeq UNS 94} JO} Apeoy ‘g ‘s

SSS = - — SS — Ne ee I = SS ————_—

‘yoea SO9XOq VAY JO Saseyoed OMT ‘Y{ “posn
ay} UO saxog ‘Gq ,aulDIpaul,, 94} SuUTIa\stulWpe Insifeinyy
dnsifeiny oie spuey sy, ‘surd oy} sunjes ‘p—'Zg ‘dIYy

Fic. 88.—A, The packed cases. B, Barge bearing Baker collection leaving pier at
Los Banos. C, The U. S. A. Transport Thomas at her dock in Manila. The barge
being towed alongside. D, Loading cases into hold of the Thomas. E, Unloading
from the Cambrai at New York. F, The cases stacked on the pier at New York.

99
100 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

consternation that the supply of excelsior that I had so thoughtfully
and with such trouble provided (it caused me more difficulties than
anything else), was woefully inadequate. Fortunately, however,
through the kindness of Major Damman, I was able to supply my
needs at cost, at the Quartermaster’s Depot at Manila.

On January 18, the last nail was driven, almost ceremoniously, into
the one hundred and fifth case and the packing was finished. The prob-
lem of getting the bulky shipment to Manila was solved by Major
Clarence Tingle, Superintendent of the Transport Service, who offered
to send an army barge and tug to Los Banos. The manager of the
bottling works of Isuan Incorporated at Los Banos, provided material
and men for the job of putting strapiron around the cases.

By previous arrangement the barge appeared at Los Banos on
February 9, two trucks delivered the cases at the landing, where the
strapiron was applied, and the collection started on its long journey
to Washington. Under the watchful eyes of the first officer and my-
self it was stowed in the hold of the Thomas on the 14th, and on the
15th the ship sailed on probably her last trip across the Pacific.

Thirty-two days later, after calls at Ching-wan-tao, China, and
Nagasaki, Japan, and after a very comfortable voyage, the Thomas
docked at San Francisco. After overseeing the transfer of the ship-
ment from the Themas to the transport Cambrai, which brought it
around through the Panama Canal to New York, I returned to Wash-
ington by rail. On April 7 I met the Cambrai at New York, where
on the 1oth, through the cooperation of the Coordinator’s office and
officers of the Quartermaster Corps, the collection was transferred
from the ship to a freight car standing on the pier. Two days later
the car reached Washington and the collection was transferred by
truck to the Museum. Due very largely to the careful handling and
considerate cooperation of the officers of the Quartermaster Corps,
the collection reached the Museum without injury worth mentioning,
to form one of the most valuable single accessions to the insect
collection.

In conclusion I wish to extend my personal thanks to the Quarter-
master Corps for all the courtesies and favors which rendered my
labors most easy of accomplishment; to the College of Agriculture
at Los Banos, especially to Acting Dean Gonzales, whose cooperation
aided materially in lightening my task; to the business houses whose
cooperation and personal interest in my project went far toward mak-
ing it a success; and especially to Dr. and Mrs. Robert L. Pendleton
for their many and continued kindnesses and their friendship.

iit FUT REEMRS OF THB DISTRICL OF COLUMBIA

By AUS DIN H. CLARK;

Curator, Division of Echinoderms, U. S. National Museum

One hundred and nine years have passed since Mr. David Baillie
Warden published in Paris a short list of the butterflies of the District
of Columbia, and during that time only scattered notices of a few
species have appeared.

With the transformation of the District from a region largely of
woods and open fields to an area of city blocks and suburban dwell-
ings and estates there has come a change in the local fauna. Some
species, found especially in scrubby pastures, have almost disappeared,
while others, living chiefly on common weeds thriving in unkept city
lots and suburban gardens, are increasing in numbers. Others have
disappeared through inability to meet the competition of new comers.

In order to construct a picture of the butterfly fauna as it exists
at the present time extensive field investigations have been carried
out in the District and vicinity. These investigations had to do
especially with the local characteristics of the butterflies, the varieties
of each found in this area, their local occurrence, and their habits.

Eighty-seven kinds of butterflies are now known from the District
and its more or less immediate vicinity. But of these only a few are
really common and many are very local, found only in widely separated
places. Some are only accidental visitors. One, the cloudless sulphur
(Catopsilia senne), which is not so very rare, is represented only
by adventurous males which stray here in late summer. No females
ever have been seen in this locality.

Two of our common summer butterflies, the milkweed butterfly
(Danaus menippe) and the painted lady (Cynthia cardut), seem
unable to survive our winter. Each spring wandering females enter
the region and lay their eggs on their respective food plants in the low
ground near the river. The young from these, appearing in July,
scatter everywhere, and the next generation, in late August and
September, usually is abundant. When the cool weather comes the
butterflies hide away in some safe retreat in which they die.

Two other butterflies, the buckeye (Junonia cena) and the red
admiral (Cynthia atalanta), in the local bogs wherever their food
plants grow, produce a large and richly colored form of more or less

IOI
D

Fic. 89.—A, Hop merchant (Polygonia comma), light or dry form (harrisii) ;
October 6, 1928. B, Hop merchant (Polygonia comma), dark or wet form (dryas) ;
September 8, 1926. C, Monarch, storm fritillary or milkweed butterfly (Danaus
menippe), female; October 13, 1928. D, Painted lady (Cynthia cardui), wet form;
June 25, 1926. E, American painted lady (Cynthia virginiensis) ; September 11, 1926.

102

Fic. 90—A, Red admiral (Cynthia atalanta), dry form; June 13, 1926. C,
Red admiral (Cynthia atalanta), wet form; August 27, 1926. , Question mark
(Polygonia interrogationis), light or dry form (fabricii) ; September 11, 1926.
F, Question mark (Polygonia interrogationis), dark or wet form (umbrosa) ;
August 7, 1926. B, Orange tip (Anthocharis midea), male, small early spring
form; April 13, 1925. D, Orange tip (Anthocharis midea), male, large late

spring form; May 2, 1926.
103
104 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

lazy disposition which corresponds to the wet season form of related
butterflies in India.

These large and handsome individuals, often very common in late
summer in the restricted areas wherein they live, die during the
winter, so that in the spring only the smaller and duller individuals
corresponding to the Indian dry season form appear. These scatter

Fic. 91—A, Buckeye (Junonia cana), female, wet form; September 27,
1925. 6, Buckeye (Junonia cana), female, wet form; September 27, 1925.
C, Buckeye (Junonia cana), female, dry form; August 1, 1927. D, Buckeye
(Junonia cana), male, dry form; September 109, 1925.

widely, laying their eggs on the food plants everywhere. From eggs
laid on certain plants in bogs a new generation of the large and hand-
some individuals arises which, like those of the preceding year, die
leaving no descendants.

Wholesale waste of the life of individuals is nature’s form of life
insurance in regard to the species as a whole. With us these butterflies
each year produce a strongly marked wet season form which in the

SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1928 IO5

winter is killed out apparently through dessication in the cold dry
winter air. Should our climate undergo a change and should we have
alternate seasons dry and wet as occur in India instead of a cold
winter with severe dry spells and a summer dry in some localities and
wet in others, our butterflies undoubtedly would adopt the regular
alternation of wet and dry season forms seen in their relatives in India.

Indeed, two other of our butterflies, the hop merchant (Polygonia
comma) and the question mark (Polygonia interrogationis), have a
light-colored, long-winged dry season form which appears late in the
summer, lives through the winter, and flies again in spring, and a
dark-colored, short-winged wet midsummer form. While the autumn

Fic. 92.—Viceroy (Basilarchia archippus) ; September 10, 1928.

brood of these two butterflies is always exclusively of the light-colored,
long-winged dry season form, individuals of this form sometimes
occur in the summer brood. Besides, the light form is not so strongly
marked as it is further north.

An extraordinary mixing of the different forms is seen in the
orange clover butterfly (Eurymus eurytheme) which, normally of
only casual occurrence, has for the past two years been extremely com-
mon. In northern Texas, as described by Boll, the first individuals to
appear are of the form called ariadne, small and pale yellow with a
faint flush of orange on the lower part of the fore wings. The butter-
flies of the next brood (form keewaydin) are much larger, and the
orange is of a deeper and brighter tint and covers a much more
extensive area. The butterflies of the next two broods are large and

8
106 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

almost entirely deep orange which in the males has a beautiful violet
iridescence. These last represent a wet form of the species, the
keewaydin type is intermediate, and the small yellow individuals (form
ariadne) represent the dry form.

In the District the driest season is in the late summer and the wettest
in the spring. So in this region the various types of this unusually
interesting butterfly are curiously mixed. The earliest individuals are
of the brilliant orange form, which is the last to appear in Texas.
This persists throughout the season, and in boggy pastures near the
river reaches an immense size. In the middle of July the intermediate
form (keewaydin) begins to become common, flying with the other.
In late summer the small yellow form with a slight flush of orange is
also to be found, in company with the other two. Here we have an
example of a butterfly in a new region adapting itself to varying
conditions within a restricted area by the production of forms which
elsewhere have a seasonal significance, after the fashion of the buck-
eye (Junonia cana).

In a region permanently or seasonally wet, vegetation is everywhere
luxuriant, while in a region permanently or seasonally dry, growing
plants are relatively few and widely scattered. In correlation with
this, the dry forms of our local butterflies are as a rule much more
active than the wet. They have longer fore wings and are more
inclined to wander. As a concrete illustration I may mention the differ-
ence in the habits of the hop merchant (Polygonia comma) and the
question mark (Polygonia interrogationis) in summer and in autumn.

The dark, short-winged summer individuals are mostly found in
deciduous woods, especially along wood roads, in open glades, and
along the borders of wooded districts. While shy and active, they
seldom stray far from their place of origin.

The light, long-winged autumn individuals are at first found in
deciduous woods, flying with worn examples of the dark parent form.
But later they largely desert the woods and become widely dispersed
throughout the open country, where they are especially to be found
along the roads, the bare earth of which is warmed by the sun of the
cool autumn days. When startled these light-colored individuals fly
away and seldom return to the place they left.

Pressure of population among the butterflies gives rise to the ap-
pearance of phenomena also seen in man under similar conditions.
Perhaps the commonest of these phenomena is haphazard wandering.
Many butterflies in early spring when the individuals are few in
number must be sought for in their proper habitats, to which they are

&

Fic. 93.—Orange clover butterfly (Eurymus eurytheme). A, Form ariadne,
male ; light yellow with a faint flush of orange on the inner portion of the fore
wings; July 23, 1927. B, Form ariadne, female; light yellow with a faint flush
of orange on the inner portion of the fore wings; August 6, 1927. C, Very
large deep orange female; September 11, 1928. D, Female with the spots
within the black border of the fore wings orange; October 7, 1928. E, White
female with a very faint flush of salmon pink on the inner portion of the fore
wings, and of yellow on the hind wings; October 7, 1928. F, Bright yellow
female with scarcely a trace of orange; September 14, 10928.

107
108 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

confined more or less strictly. Beyond those areas are seen only
occasional individuals, which in most forms are always males. Later
in the year, when the individuals are very numerous, both sexes
wander and become of general occurrence, though away from the
normal habitat, males are almost always much more numerous.

In some species, as for instance in the cloudless sulphur (Catopsilia
senne ), the males will flock together and go on exploring expeditions,
sometimes traversing large areas never visited by females. In others
the males will congregate on muddy spots where they may occasionally
be seen in enormous companies sucking up the moisture. This is espe-
cially the case with the yellow clover butterfly (Eurymus philodice),
the lesser sulphur (Eurema lisa), and the yellow (Papilio glaucus) and
white or zebra (Papilio protesilaus) swallowtails. These companies
of males sociably imbibing moisture suggest men’s clubs in a city.

In other species, as the pearl crescent (Phyciodes tharos), the
buckeye (Junonia cena), and the viceroy (Basilarchia archippus), the
males wander away and gather along roads or the borders of waste
places. Here they become excessively pugnacious. They attack each
other and dart viciously at bees, wasps, grasshoppers, and other insects
that fly near them. They cannot in any way harm these objects of
their spite, but they do their best to worry them. I have seen a male
pearl crescent by a furious onslaught on an immensely larger milk-
weed butterfly (Danaus menippe) cause it to fly awkwardly from side
to side, at the same time rising in a desperate endeavor to shake off
its puny adversary.

These belligerent male butterflies striving to prevent passage across
their lines into an overpopulated area are acting in defense of their
species’ food supply. They show a curious correspondence to the
military lines drawn around human social units for the same purpose.

While the males of most butterflies are more or less pugnacious,
their pugnacity rapidly increasing with increasing numbers, some
butterflies are pacifists and will not fight. This is the case, for instance,
with the milkweed butterfly (Danaus menippe). A very curious
characteristic of this insect is that the sexes seem to be alike in all
their habits, and when on the wing can only be distinguished by the
brighter color of the males. This butterfly is remarkable for its
autumnal migratory flights in enormous flocks which, unlike the so-
called migratory flights of many other butterflies, include both sexes.

Comparatively little has been done on the more intricate details
of the natural history of the butterflies, and it is hoped by a continua-
tion of these studies to clear up many points that now seem obscure.

STUDYING FERNS IN EUROPEAN HERBARIA

By WILLIAM R. MAXON,

Associate Curator, Division of Plants, U. S. National Museum

In furtherance of studies upon which I have been engaged inter-
mittently for many years, I was enabled last summer to visit Europe
and to carry on work at several botanical institutions, with the view
of preparing a descriptive account of the fern flora of Jamaica.
I*xtensive field work by myself and others at intervals since 1Igoo
had yielded large series of specimens which in themselves might
seem to afford a sufficient basis, yet there existed the need of com-
paring many of these with the original (type) specimens in European
herbaria and re-identifying much other material, in order to settle
many points of identity not only, but of relationship and range as well.

Mention has been made previously’ of the important position
occupied by Jamaica with respect to current studies of the tropical
American fern flora—a flora surprisingly rich, even to those most
familiar with it. The first New World ferns to be described in any
number were West Indian, and of those that received scientific names
in the modern sense a large proportion were from Jamaica. For
differing reasons, many of these names, given originally to char-
acteristic Jamaican species, have since been applied loosely or quite
erroneously to related plants from other regions; from which it
follows that progress in describing properly the diverse tropical
American fern flora as a whole must be dependent largely upon
having first an accurate knowledge of the ferns of Jamaica. Though
obvious, the point has been often overlooked in recent work.

I sailed from New York for Southampton July 4, and on the
return passage reached New York October 12. Most of the interven-
ing period was passed in London, studying at the British Museum
(Natural History) and the Royal Botanic Gardens, Kew. At the
former institution several days were given first to a critical re-
examination of the Jamaican ferns collected in 1687-89 by Sir Hans
Sloane, virtual founder of the British Museum; many of these were
faithfully illustrated in his ‘‘ History” of the island, and served as
the partial basis for numerous new species proposed by later writers.

1 Smithsonian Misc. Coll. Vol. 78, No. 7, pp. 100-111, figs. 110-118, 1927.
109
I1O SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Fic. 94—The historic Herbarium Building. Royal Botanic Gardens, Kew.

Fic. 95.—Herbarium interior, Kew, showing three galleries of one wing.
The Herbarium contains upward of 4,000,000 specimens.

SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1928

Of special interest also were Jamaican specimens collected in the
18th century by Houstoun, William Wright, Dancer, Roger Shake-
speare, Masson, and Wiles, and well preserved material gathered in

Fic. 96.—Pond, Royal Botanic Gardens, Kew.

the last century by numerous collectors, chiefly Bancroft, Heward,
Macfadyen, Hartweg, Purdie, Gosse, Wilson, Alexander, and March,
besides the more recent collections by Nock, Jenman, Sherring, Faw-
cett, Morris, Hart, and Harris. Here too is found the herbarium of

Mita
II2 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

John Smith, for many years curator of the Royal Botanic Gardens,
Kew, who built up the superb collection of living ferns at that
institution.

The Kew fern herbarium is composed of material from very much
the same sources as those just mentioned, in so far as Jamaica itself
is concerned, but it is much richer from the standpoint of general
fern study, owing to life-long interest in this group on the part of
two famous former directors, Sir William Hooker and Mr. J. G.
Baker, and the peculiarly favorable official and personal relations that
existed during a long period of remarkable activity in world-wide
botanical exploration. In wealth of historic material it is unrivaled.

* Botanisk Have

Fic. 97.—A view in the Botanical Garden, Copenhagen. The Botanical Museum
is near by.
The beautiful Gardens as well bear eloquent testimony to the devoted
and enlightened support accorded this institution for generations.

It was at Stockholm, however, that the largest number of type
specimens bearing directly upon the Jamaican problem were en-
countered. Here, in the beautiful new Riksmuseet building near the
northern boundary of the city, are preserved most of the original
specimens collected in Jamaica by the illustrious Swedish botanist,
Olof Swartz, in 1784-86, and described by him; and I was able to
make nearly all desired comparisons, these based not only on speci-
mens that Swartz had retained in his own herbarium, but in scores
of cases substantiated also by specimens presented by him to con-
temporaneous Swedish botanists, whose collections eventually have
come to the Museum.

1928

EXPLORATIONS,

SMITHSONIAN

“Wa[YeC-Ulfiog ‘Udjter) TaYyISIUL}OY ‘SaT1OJLAIISUOD dy} JO MOIA [e1IUZS W—'g6 °

4
Sa
4

Ge ? 4524 a
ENS pi inh os eeputena omecasmecemmccen bacco ge

1

GREE Cee ST Tey ES oo

7 i a NO Ra Tl Rat acm atin mata tt Bis

114 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Swartz was in close touch also with the German botanist, Willdenow,
and in the beautifully preserved Willdenovian herbarium at the Berlin
Botanical Museum I found many of his duplicates, these agreeing
almost without exception with the Stockholm material so named.
Willdenow’s own tropical American species were examined as care-
fully as time permitted, and the period of six days devoted to this
study and to examining fern material in the rich general herbarium at
3erlin proved all too brief.

On the way to Germany I had the privilege of spending several
days at the Botanisk Museum, Copenhagen, with Dr. Carl Christensen,
leading world authority on Pteridophyta, and of discussing with him

Fic. 99.—A small section of the exhibit of living Cacti. Botanischer Garten,
Berlin-Dahlem.

many problems of mutual concern in connection with our work upon
this group. Of particular interest were the types of numerous species
proposed long ago by Liebmann, from Mexico.

Substantial progress in the Jamaican work was made during the
summer, and the trip was profitable in other ways. It was made pos-
sible through generous support extended by the American Association
for the Advancement of Science, the Smithsonian Institution, the
New York Botanical Garden, and the British Museum (Natural
History). The manuscript is to be published by the last institution.

To the directors and curators of the institutions visited is offered
a very sincere expression of appreciation of assistance and innumer-
able courtesies extended.

BOTANICAL EXPLORATION IN HONDURAS
Bye AU Cy SAN DEEN,

Associate Curator, Division of Plants, U. S. National Museum

In comparison with other Central American countries, the flora of
Honduras and Nicaragua is virtually unknown. As a step toward
remedying this condition the writer spent the period from December,
1927 to March, 1928, inclusive, in botanical exploration in northern
and central Honduras, the work having been undertaken by the Na-
tional Museum in cooperation with the Arnold Arboretum, the United
Fruit Company, and the Lancetilla Experiment Station of the Tela
Railroad Company.

Headquarters for the work was established at Lancetilla Station,
three miles south of the port of Tela, the most important shipping
point for bananas from the Honduran coast. The station, under the
direction of Wilson Popenoe, is devoted to experimental work with
bananas and to the testing of new plants of possible economic value
in Central America. There has been assembled at Lancetilla a large
variety of useful plants from all parts of the tropics, and the station
promises to become an important center for horticultural work. Of
greatest interest, perhaps, at the present time, are several hundred
young mangosteen trees. The mangosteen is considered by those who
know it to be the finest of all tropical fruits, but no attempt has been
made previously to grow it upon a large scale in America.

The greater part of the winter was spent in studying the flora of
Lancetilla Valley, about the station. A large collection of plants was
obtained, representing not only the flowering plants and ferns but also
the lower cryptogams, to serve as the basis of a proposed flora of the
valley now in course of preparation. This wet lowland region was
found to be a rich one from the botanical standpoint, especially in
trees, and it is believed that the collections obtained contain a sub-
stantial number of undescribed or otherwise interesting species.

Lancetilla is an ideal headquarters for field work because of the
excellent living conditions which it affords, and also because of its
proximity to interesting collecting grounds. After a walk of Io
minutes from the office one reaches virgin forest, composed of a

115
SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Fic. 101.—A typical swamp scene in the lowlands near Tela, Honduras.

SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1928 WANA

great variety of important timber trees. The number of palm species
in the undergrowth is surprisingly large, the most abundant and
conspicuous being the familiar cohune or corozo (Afttalea cohune),
with which are associated Chamaedoreas, a Malortiea, Geonomas, and
many others. From one of the common palms, formidably armed with
long, stout, flattened spines, and known locally as Jancetilla, the valley
and station derive their name.

The hills which confine the valley rise to a height of 2,000 feet,
thus affording a variety of plant life seldom found so near the coast.

Fic. 102—View across the grounds of Lancetilla Experiment Station. The
hills rise to 2,000 feet, and are covered with virgin forest.

The large trees on the very humid hilltops, above the corozo forests,
are loaded with a luxuriant growth of epiphytic plants, among which
ferns, orchids, bromeliads, aroids, and mosses predominate.

An interesting sight at Lancetilla is the serpentarium of the
Antivenin Institute of America, where are kept large numbers of
poisonous snakes. From the vicious barba amarilla and the giant
Honduran rattlesnake, venom is extracted from which is prepared a
serum for use in treating persons bitten by these serpents. This is
the only establishment of its kind north of Brazil.
118 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Fic. 103.—Typical laborers’ dwellings of the north coast of Honduras. The
palms are Attalea cohune, and the huts are thatched with their leaves.

Fic. 104.—A barba amarilla, the most venomous of Central American snakes.
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1928 I1Ig

Three weeks were spent also in the interior of Honduras, and I
traveled as far as the capital, Tegucigalpa. Travel in the interior of
Honduras is now easy because of the completion by the government
of an excellent automobile road which runs from Lake Yojoa, at
the end of one of the railroads of the Atlantic coast, across several
ranges of high mountains to Tegucigalpa, and on to the Pacific coast.
Tegucigalpa is almost the only capital in the world not reached by a
railroad.

It is a satisfaction to know that this fine road was planned and
constructed by Honduran engineers. Over the difficult mountains it
is a succession of steep grades and hairpin curves, which would thrill
the traveler more if it were not for the careful native chauffeurs,
who are probably the most expert drivers in Central America. The
road unfolds to view one beautiful vista after another, for nowhere
else in Central America will one find more majestic and varied scenery.

Extensive collections were made about Siguatepeque, in central
Honduras. This is a comparatively dry, mountainous region of pine
forests, lying at an elevation of 3,500 to 6,000 feet. The general aspect
of the country recalls the Rocky Mountains of southern Colorado
and northern New Mexico. Not only are the Honduran pines strongly
suggestive of the common yellow pine of the Rockies, but the appear-
ance of the rather sparse undergrowth likewise is very similar. Curi-
ously enough, there occur here in the higher mountains a hop hornbeam
(Ostrya), the sweetgum (Liquidambar styraciflua), the royal and
cinnamon ferns, and bracken, all of which are common plants of the
eastern United States. The vegetation of central Honduras seems to
be closely related to that of some parts of non-tropical southern
Mexico. This fact is emphasized by the abundance of Parosela
species, and by the large number of handsome red- and blue-flowered
Salvias.

It was a disappointment that lack of time made it impossible to
collect in the Comayagua Valley, which is crossed by the road from
Siguatepeque to Tegucigalpa. This huge valley, encircled by high
mountains, is almost a desert, resembling the Zacapa Desert of
Guatemala, and one of the few such areas existing in Central America.
One is reminded strongly of the deserts of Mexico by the scrubby
thickets and bare dusty stretches about Comayagua. One of the com-
mon plants is a stately Agave, and there is a profusion of cactuses,
among them small prostrate prickly-pears, and other Opuntias which
grow as trees 30 feet high, climbing Cereus species with slender
I

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

TA Et

105.—View of Siguatepeque, typical of the mountain scenery of central
Honduras.

Fic. 106.—Characteristic pine forest near Siguatepeque, Honduras.

NM

MITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1928 IZA

angled stems, a large Echinocactus or barrel cactus, with stout hooked
spines, and one or more Cephalocereus species, their tall, simple or
branched, columnar stems covered at the tip with bunches of long
white hair.

In all, about 4,300 numbers of plants, represented by approxi-
mately 13,000 specimens, were collected in the course of the season’s

Fic. 107,—A Furcraea in flower, Siguatepeque,
Honduras.

work. The collections are now being studied at the Field Museum of
Natural History.

The field work in Honduras was facilitated in every possible manner
by the officials of the Tela Railroad Company, to whom thanks are
due for the success of the expedition. Special acknowledgments are
made to Wilson Popenoe, who furnished at Lancetilla such admirable

9
iZ2 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

facilities for the exploration of that region; to Alfred F. Butler, whose
constant attention made the work so agreeable; and to Frederick
Coville, who made more than 100 photographs of characteristic plants
of the Lancetilla Valley.

COLLECTING GRASSES IN NEWFOUNDLAND AND
LABRADOR

BAY JAN, Sy IelIMiClal COG
Custodian, Section of Grasses, U. S. National Museum

For the purpose of obtaining much-needed material representative
of the extreme northeast, I visited Newfoundland and Labrador dur-
ing July and August, 1928, to study and collect grasses. The settle-
ments in Newfoundland are chiefly along the coast, since from the
earliest occupation by the white man the basic industry has been fish-
ing. Recently a railroad has been built across the island from Port-
aux-Basques at the southwest corner to St. John’s, the capital, near
the southeast corner. The road, however, runs north from Port-aux-
Basques, through St. Georges to Corner Brook, then turns east,
passing through Grand Falls, and finally turns to the southeast, thus
making a large bend to the north. There are a few towns in the
interior along this railroad, but in the main the central part of the
island is a vast wilderness.

Two large pulp mills are located at Corner Brook and Grand Falls,
and the manufacture of paper from pulp wood is a rather recent and
flourishing industry. There is some mining and agriculture, but these
are distinctly minor activities.

Collections of grasses were made at Port-aux-Basques, St. Georges,
Corner Brook, Little Harbor (on Deer Lake, north of Corner Brook),
Grand Falls, and St. John’s. The number of species of grasses de-
creases in North America as one goes north, and in Newfoundland
the number is further diminished because it is an island. About 12
species may be said to be common throughout the island. Among
these the bent grasses (Agrostis), with four species, and the blue-
grasses (Poa), with two species, take the lead. About 40 species of
grasses were collected, but many were comparatively rare. A few
were found commonly in restricted areas, as, for example, two species
of beach erasses (Ammophila and Elymus), found on sandy sea
beaches. The area occupied by these is restricted, because the shores
of the island are mostly rocky and precipitous.

A short trip to Labrador was made during August. A steamer
runs regularly at intervals of about 18 days from St. John’s to various
ports in Labrador as far north as Hopedale (Lat. 555°) or some-
times to Nain (Lat. 564°). In order to have time for collecting I

123
12a SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Fic. 108.—Bonne Bay, on the west coast of Newfoundland, north of Humber
Mouth. The treeless slopes and the neat white houses are typical of the

fishing villages.

|

Fic. 109.—Glacial boulder at Holyrood (near St. John’s), Newfoundland.
Much of the island is glaciated and boulders have been freely deposited. This
one is conspicuous because of its size and its position in the street of a town.
ie)

8

>}

19

EXPLORATIONS,

SMITHSONIAN

‘UdaS SI JSoJOF YONU OS Jey} sooR{d poyoo}OI1d UT ATUO
SI }I Ysnoy} ‘jsvod JOpeiqey] ey} Jo [vodA} St ouUadS SIU T,

‘lopeaqe’] ‘aAo0d Ssoqqa A, }e added AYO01 W—III “Oly

oY} pue ‘]Ras dL
S$ purst 94} jo

|

}

S

*(hoqiivo
Ysypoo oy} Osye viv se) sduieys oseysod
aNsst Ule}I9D UO podjUssoIdoI Sty] ‘pury]

‘

-punOJMINY JO O1j4STIo}IVIeYD SI pIdiq SIYT, “Joqiepy IW]
SuULSUOJaq “sOp pue[puNnoJMoN—OILI “DIY

‘IOUINT, “AY 0}

Fic. 112.—The church at Cartwright, Labrador. The good people of the
fishing villages are well supplied with religious edifices. Cartwright is a
Hudson Bay Company’s post.

Fic. 113.—The school at Cartwright, Labrador. The scrubby timber consists
of black spruce, balsam fir, and larch.

120

Fic. 114.—Stunted growths of spruce and fir on the wind-swept shore of
the bay at Cartwright, Labrador. The snows and winter winds flatten out
all forest growth in exposed places.

Fic. 115.—Beach grass (Elymus mollis) along the sandy shore of the
bay at Cartwright, Labrador. This grass is found on sandy shores of the
northern part of North America, but is not common in Labrador and New-
foundland because the shores there are mostly rocky and precipitous.

127
128 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

stopped at Cartwright (about Lat. 54°), while the steamer went north
to Hopedale, and took the boat on its return, leaving it again at Battle
Harbor, situated near the southeast corner of Labrador. I remained
at Cartwright five days and at Battle Harbor from the evening of one
day to the morning of the third day.

Labrador is a bleak and rather barren land along the coast. The
numerous inlets and bays are rocky and precipitous. The interior is
forested, but there are no trees near the coast except in protected

Fireweed (Chamaenerion angustifoliuum), Cartwright, Labrador.
This conspicuous plant, common in all northern lands, is called fireweed
because it springs up abundantly in burned areas.

Fic. 116.

places. Through the courtesy of the Hudson Bay Company my stay
at Cartwright was very pleasant.

At Battle Harbor there is a Grenfell Hospital which is open during

the summer months. The main hospital is at St. Anthony, on the east
side of the north end of the peninsula that extends toward Labrador.
As the steamer stopped here on its journey north I was able to inspect
the large and well-equipped hospital and the industrial school.

Altogether the results of the trip were very satisfactory. A large
series of grass specimens was brought back and first hand information
of a portion of this extreme northeastern region was obtained.

COMPE CURING GRASSES IN Tak SOUTHWEST
By JASON:R. SWALLEN,

The grasses of the Southwest form an exceedingly interesting
element of the United States grass flora. With a view to studying
certain species in localities which have been little visited by botanists,
I spent the past summer collecting in the states of Arkansas, Okla-
homa, Texas, New Mexico, and Colorado.

In Oklahoma, a short visit was made to the Wichita Mountains,
the highest range in the state, although they are little more than high
hills. The area has been set aside as a national forest and game
preserve, affording refuge for buffalo, elk, deer, and antelope. Around
a central plain which provides forage for numerous cattle, there are
rugged rocky slopes rather sparsely covered with small oaks and pines.
For the most part the flora is very much the same as that of the
surrounding plains.

As the season was a very dry one in western Texas, the collecting
was not especially good. However, I made a trip to the Chisos Moun-
tains about 60 miles south of Alpine. Some of the slopes are entirely
void of a ground cover, while others support a more or less dense
vegetation of grass, shrub, and in places small pine trees. Toward the
summit of the mountains I founda species of bluegrass (Poa involuta
Hitche.) which had been collected only once before, and is apparently
local and confined in distribution to this region. Short visits were
also made in Texas to Corpus Christi and Edinburg.

The work in Colorado was almost entirely confined to high altitudes,
for the purpose of studying the species of the genus Poa. It was
also hoped to establish new localities for some rare alpine grasses,
but without success. Trips were made to Mount Wilson in the San
Miguel Mountains, Mt. Massive, Grays and Torreys Peaks, the Park
Range west of Steamboat Springs, and the Spanish Peaks. One of
the striking features of the flora of Colorado is the way in which
the desert vegetation extends far up the valleys at comparatively
high altitudes to the very base of the mountains, indicating that Colo-
rado is essentially an arid region. In many places these valleys are
irrigated, converting them into valuable and productive land.

The scenery among the high peaks of the mountains and in the deep
gorges of the rivers is often magnificent, but it must be admitted that

129
T30 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Fic. 117A view of the sand dunes on Mustang Island off the coast of
Texas near Corpus Christi. The dominant grass on the dunes is Uniola
paniculata L.

Fic. 118—Mt. Wilson, San Miguel Mountains, Colorado. The scenery in
this region is less marred by forest fires and lumbering operations than is
often the case in this state.

SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1928 131

Fic. 119.—Rabbit Ear Mountain, Colorado. From the top of the “ears,”
an excellent view of the Park Range is obtained. Pasture is good in this
region, providing forage for herds of sheep.

Fic. 120.—Grays and Torreys Peaks, Colorado, as seen from Mt. Kelso.
On the upper slopes of Grays Peak, the one to the left, Poa letterman
is very abundant.
132 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

the beauty of the wooded slopes is greatly marred by the extensive
areas of devastation caused by forest fires or by lumbering operations.
There were evidences of this in practically every locality that I visited,
the present stand being almost entirely composed of second growth
timber. Where the devastation has been more recent, aspens often
cover large areas with a dense growth, especially at the higher alti-
tudes. In many places the charred remains of the trees stand as
evidence of the destruction wrought. The efforts of the Forest Ser-
vice, however, are of the greatest value in the preservation of this
natural resource and in the reforestation of the lands already laid
waste, for the use of future generations. This is necessarily a slow
process which will extend over a long period of time.

The mining industry has also taken its toll. Wherever mines have
been developed on a large scale, the results have always been the
same—the almost complete ruin of natural beauty.

Collecting in Colorado was excellent, especially at high altitudes,
affording a good opportunity to study the grasses in their natural
surroundings. During the summer I collected about 500 numbers of
grasses, many of which were extensions of known ranges as repre-
sented in the National Herbarium.

ARCHEOLOGICAL FIELD-WORK IN CHINA

ByGowWe BISHOP,
Associate Curator, Freer Gallery of Art

After the return from China of the American portion of the Freer
Gallery Expedition staff in the spring of 1927, field-work was con-
tinued by its Chinese members, Dr. C. Li and Mr. K. Z. Tung.

Dr. Li, whose excavations in southwestern Shansi province have
already been noticed,’ devoted the spring and summer of 1927 to the
study of his finds and the preparation of his preliminary report in
Chinese and English. The Chinese version was published early in
September, 1927, as one of the series of scientific reports of the
Research Institute of Tsing Hua University, Peking.

Dr. Li had planned to return to Shansi in the early autumn and
establish a field base for permanent work in that area, among the
most interesting archeologically in all China. He was prevented, how-
ever, by the outbreak of hostilities between the party then in power at
Peking, and the province of Shansi. He therefore attempted a task
which the Freer Gallery Expedition has long had in mind, the arche-
ological exploration of the valley of the Han River, in Central China,
an important avenue of war and trade and migration from the earliest
times. In pursuance of these plans, Dr. Li proceeded by sea to
Shanghai and thence up the Yangtze River to Nanking, this circuitous
route being necessitated by the civil war then going on.

Dr. Li held a number of important conferences with members of
the Scientific Research Institute of the newly established National
Government, with the object of arranging methods of mutually benefi-
cial cooperation between that organization and the Smithsonian Insti-
tution. In the course of these, Dr. Li was requested by the Chinese
Government to help organize departments of anthropology and arche-
ology. He then proceeded up the river to Hankow, only to learn that
the almost universal prevalence of banditry in that part of China

* Explorations and Field-Work of the Smithsonian Institution in 1926. Smith-
sonian Misc. Coll., Vol. 78, No. 7. pp. 123-137, and /bid; Smithsonian Publ. No.
2057, 1927, pp. 114-118.

133
34 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Fic. 121.—Scene on the Yangtse River with junks in a brisk breeze.

Fic. 122.—Group of Mongols near Shangtu.

SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1928 5

would make it impossible for him to carry out his projected explora-
tion of the Han River valley.

He therefore started north late in January, to try to visit the his-
torically and archeologically very important areas centering about the
Great Bend region of the Yellow River. He was permitted, by grace
of the military, to travel in an unheated baggage car, through rain
and sleet and snow, and on one occasion, when his train was caught
between two hostile forces, he was for a time under somewhat heavy
fire, bullets passing through the car in which he was riding.

It was at this time that events were shaping themselves for the
final push which resulted in the occupation of Peking by the National
Government, and Dr. Li, convinced after a thorough trial that field-
work for the time being was out of the question, returned to Peking
over the same circuitous route by which he had come.

While he was unable to accomplish anything of importance in the
way of field-work in this journey, the contacts which he established
with the new National Government for the promotion of scientific
research, particularly in archeology, are of great importance and will
undoubtedly be productive of much good in the near future.

Dr. Li had been instructed, in the event of the civil war making
field-work impossible, to come to Washington. He arrived late in
May of the current year and spent a busy summer in preparing the
English version of his report, in visiting important centers of arche-
ological study in this country and in discussions with members of the
Smithsonian staff and others interested in research in China. On
August 10, he sailed for Europe, and should at present writing have
returned to Peking after making further arrangements with the
Chinese Government at Nanking, the new capital, for cooperative
field-work.

In the spring of 1927 excavations were undertaken in the Liaotung
Peninsula of Manchuria by Dr. K. Hamada of the Imperial University
of Kyoto, Japan. In these Mr. K. Z. Tung was invited to participate
as the representative of the Freer Gallery Expedition. He therefore
proceeded to the city of Dairen, where he joined the party and went
to the proposed site, near by. It was successfully excavated, and much
of interest was found. A report will be published in due course by the
Kyoto Imperial University ; but it may be stated here that Dr. Hamada
believes that the place was a port of call in early times for voyagers
between China and Worea.
136 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Fic. 123.—Camel train. Most of the carrying trade of Mongolia is done by
camel caravans.

Fic. 124.—Pass leading from Kalgan up into the plateau of Mongolia.

se Ss
8

2

19

PLORATIONS,

IBD

SMITHSONIAN

‘SSo.1p-peoy
PWIOGK]A SUIMOYS ‘YURI JO UPLUOM JOSUO[Y—'gzI “DI

‘WSIYpphg UvJqIT, JO s}Us1aYype pajyoaap aie
SJOSuOW SY], “selsd ysiyppng 410 euey JosuojY—'SzI ‘ory

10
138 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Dr. Hamada later in the same year visited Washington, where he
was welcomed by the staff of the Smithsonian Institution. It may be
stated here, parenthetically, that the efforts constantly being made
by the Institution to conduct scientific research along various lines in
close and friendly cooperation with kindred bodies in other lands,
is one of the most effective although least widely advertised means of
promoting goodwill and friendship among the nations.

After his return to Peking, Mr. Tung was able to visit various
localities of archeological importance, although his activities, like those
of Dr. Li, were greatly curtailed by the civil war then going on. In
the early spring of the present year he paid a visit to the new capital,
Nanking, and effected further contacts with the members of the gov-
ernment on behalf of the Freer Gallery Expedition.

Mr. Tung next essayed a visit to the site of the old summer capital
of the Mongol Dynasty, Shangtu, or Xanadu as it is spelled in Cole-
ridge’s well known poem, “ Kubla Khan.” This lies in Inner Mongolia,
about 200 miles north of Peking, and excavation there should reveal
much of interest about the great days described for us in the pages
of Marco Polo.

Owing to the prevailing hostilities, Mr. Tung’s first attempt to reach
Shangtu was unsuccessful and he only succeeded with much difficulty
and even danger—from risk of typhus, molestation by disorderly
troops, and the like—in regaining Peking.

He persevered in his efforts, however, and met with better success
on his second attempt. He proceeded by rail to Kalgan, about a hun-
dred miles northwest of Peking, and then hired an American motor-car
with which he succeeded in reaching Shangtu. He was accompanied
by a representative of the Peking Historical Museum, an institution
with which the Freer Gallery Expedition has worked in close coopera-
tion for several years past, and by the former Abbot of the Lama
Temple of Peking. Through the good offices of the latter, Mr. Tung
was enabled to meet various Mongol chieftains, and to establish
friendly relations with them with a view to the exploration and
possible eventual excavation of the site.

In concluding this very condensed sketch of the activities of the
Freer Gallery of Art in the field
many difficulties, hardships, and even dangers—it may be stated that
Mr. A. G. Wenley, who for the past two years has been in Paris
working under the eminent French sinologues, proceeded during the
past autumn to Japan for further study.

activities carried on in the face of

SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1928 139

Fic. 127.—North wall of Shangtu, the old summer capital of the Mongol
Emperors. Mr. Tung’s motor-car in foreground.

Fic. 128.—Ruins of Shangtu, the old summer capital of the Mongol emperors
of China.
Hae) SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

The year 1928 draws to a close with conditions in China vastly
improved, and there is every reason to expect that the Freer Gallery
Expedition will be able to accomplish during 1929 much of funda-
mental importance to a correct understanding and interpretation of the

great Chinese civilization.

ie wNGlIENT ESKIMO CULTURE OF NORTHWESTERN
IESE

Bye AeNRY: Be COBLINS® JR:

Assistant Curator, Division of Ethnology, U. S. National Museum

The archeology of northwestern Alaska has until very recently been
wholly unknown. There was, in fact, no general knowledge of the
existence of any sites of importance in the region. In 1926 Dr. Ales
Hrdliéka, of the Smithsonian Institution, made an anthropological
survey of the Alaska coast from Norton Sound to Point Barrow, and
Mr. D. Jenness, of the National Museum of Canada, carried on sys-
tematic excavations at Cape Prince of Wales and on the Little Diomede
Island. The immediate result of these investigations was to show that
there had existed in early times about Bering Strait an I¢skimo culture,
distinctive in type, and superior in some respects to that found in the
same regions to-day. In 1927, with Mr. T. Dale Stewart, I examined
the Alaska coast from the Aleutian Islands northward to Norton
Sound, but found no trace of this ancient culture. In 1928 I conducted
a second expedition, accompanied by Mr. Harry E. Manca of Seattle,
for the purpose of excavating on St. Lawrence and Punuk Islands.
The work was made possible through the generosity of Mrs. Mary
Vaux Walcott, and additional support was received from the Bureau
of American Ethnology and the American Association for the Ad-
vancement of Science.

We left Seattle May 17 on the U. S. Coast Guard Cutter Northland,
but the condition of the ice around St. Lawrence and Punuk delayed
our landing until June 23. While waiting, however, we made collections
of skeletal material at Golofnin Bay and on Sledge Island in Norton
Sound.

The three small Punuk Islands le four miles off the eastern end
of St. Lawrence. The largest island, on which the old village is located,
is somewhat less than half a mile long. Like the entire eastern half of
St. Lawrence, Punuk Island has long been deserted. The nearest
Eskimo are those living at the village of Sevunga, on the northern
side of St. Lawrence, about 100 miles to the westward. Natives from
Sevunga and from Gambell, on the northwestern end of the island,
were employed as excavators.

I4I
142 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Archeological field-work in this section of Alaska must be carried
on under difficulties. There are no regular means of transportation to
the more remote areas; there is often no nearly source of labor or
supplies ; wood for fuel is often scarce and on Punuk suitable drink-
ing water was lacking. The weather is extremely disagreeable and
on the Bering Sea islands, in particular, high winds, cold, fog, and
rains generally prevail throughout the summer. Added to these incon-
venient features the work of excavating is made unusually difficult

Fic. 129.—Paul Silook and Steven Istivik, St. Lawrence Island Eskimos,
cutting up a walrus they shot at Punuk. Walrus blubber is the principal
food of the St. Lawrence Islanders.

because of the permanently frozen ground, which makes it necessary
to strip off the earth in layers of only a few inches thickness, allowing
the atmosphere to thaw out the exposed surface before repeating the
process.

Viewed from the sea on either side, the Punuk village site appears
as a six-foot mound rising from the level surface of the land and
occupying the entire space across a narrow neck of the island. Sunk
into its top are the square pits of the old houses, which were con-
structed of drift wood and whale bones, and the underground caches

SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1928 143

Fic. 130.—FEast Cape, St. Lawrence Island, as seen from Punuk Island.

_ Fic. 131.—The western end of Punuk Island. The expedition camp is seen
just beyond the ruins of the old village, and still further a few ruined
dwellings of a much later period.
144 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

in which whale bones alone were used. The entire mound was found
to be a natural accumulation of refuse, built up by slow degrees by
generations of Eskimos who had lived on the spot. The total extent
of this kitchen-midden was even greater than it appeared, for it was
found to extend several feet below the present beach, giving it at
one point a height of 16 feet. A short distance from the midden are a
few detached houses belonging probably to the same period, and
still further toward the end of the island are the ruins of several

Fic. 132.—One of the expedition’s two tents on Punuk Island. In the
background is seen the hill that gives to the Island its Eskimo name,
Poongook, from Poongwa, or “ Little Hill.”

later houses, abandoned 4o or 50 years ago. Three of the later houses
and two of the older ones were excavated in addition to sections cut
into the midden.

The sloping lower parts of the midden were buried beneath several
feet of sand and rocks that had been washed up by the sea. Several
old houses were found at the very bottom of the midden, the deepest
of them six feet below the present upper beach line, which was
reached by the waves on two occasions during our stay on the island.
These houses when built were, of course, like all Eskimo houses, well

SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1928 145

above the reach of the sea. A considerable period of time must be
allowed to account for the sinking of the land or the encroachment of
the sea to such an extent,

In addition to the evidence of the sinking of the land, the antiquity
of the Punuk village site is attested by the enormous accumulation of
refuse, by the leveled and filled-in appearance of the house pits, and
most significant of all, by the large number of implements, weapons,
and other objects differing markedly from those used by the modern
Eskimo. Among the objects from the later houses were iron tools
of many kinds ; closed-socket thick harpoon heads with metal blades ;
relatively flat adz heads; and small ivory bird figures. In contrast to
these forms the older village yielded open-socket thin harpoon heads
with slate blades; closed-socket heads of a distinctive type, usually
decorated ; “ shoe-shaped ” adz heads; drills of bone and ivory ; spear
thrower and peg insets for butt of darts used with it; and plummet
shaped ivory fish line sinkers. Among the several thousand speci-
mens excavated from the older site there were only four small pieces
of iron and two blue glass beads, all of which came from a depth
no greater than 16 inches.

The incised ornamentation appearing on many of the bone and ivory
objects from the old village is of a tvpe heretofore known froma few
random specimens from St. Lawrence Island. In its most typical
form it consists of dots and gracefully incised lines, straight or slightly
curved, into which red ochre had often been rubbed. The circle and
dot design, employed in conjunction with more typical line decoration,
was also found. This Punuk type of Eskimo art appears to be inter-
mediate both in time and in style between the most ancient, which
has come to light only within the past three years, and the modern.

With the possible exception of the upper level, the Punuk settlement
is prehistoric, though it is later than the old sites such as Kukuliak
and Sevuokuk on the northern and northwestern parts of the island.
If the few pieces of iron and the two glass beads are to be regarded
as properly belonging where found and not as later intrusions they
place the abandonment of the village at a time following the entry
of the Russians into northeastern Siberia in the middle of the seven-
teenth century, for shortly thereafter the Alaskan Eskimo secured
small quantities of metal in trade from the Chukchi.

Late in July a brief trip was made in a whale boat to Cape Kialegak
on the southeastern end of St. Lawrence Island. Here was found an
“UIT YOeoq
juasaid dy} MOTAq }92F Q puv ASNJat JO oof QI YJBoUaY esnoy po se a geen £1 YyyBoued ‘WI0}}0q Je seoues}UI ssHoy
ue Jo Jed Surmoys uspprur ynuNg oy} JO UoIIeG—TEL “OIy pjO Surmoys Usppru usys}ry pur[sy YHUN_ JO uoljs9G— CEL “Oy

bia |

INSTITUTION

SMITHSONIAN

146

SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1928 147

old village with a refuse pile of even greater proportions than the one
at Punuk. Iron, glass beads, closed-socket harpoon heads and other
late types of objects were found on the surface and to a depth of
eight feet in the midden. Below that level iron was absent and the
old types of artifacts prevailed. A few hundred yards distant was a
smaller village site and midden which was entirely prehistoric. The
material from this site and from the lower part of the larger midden
was practically identical with that from the old village at Punuk.
After having lived at the older Kialegak site for a relatively short
period—judging from the comparatively small amount of refuse—the
inhabitants had abandoned it and moved a short distance up the beach
to build the new homes which they occupied until probably 50 years
ago. The larger Kialegak site, with the recent material in the upper
levels of the midden lying directly above the earlier forms, thus supple-
mented and afforded a basis of comparison with the Punuk site where
the proto-historic period ended rather abruptly at the old village and
was succeeded, perhaps after a considerable interval of time, by the
houses at the end of the island.

The material from Punuk and Kialegak shows that there are three
stages through which the art of St. Lawrence Island may be traced.
The earliest (1), found only on the northern and western parts of the
island, on deeply patinated objects, consists of scrolls, graceful straight
and curved lines, and circles and ellipses made free hand and often
surmounting low rounded protuberances ; (2) the intermediate stage,
typical of Punuk and Cape Kialegak but found also at the northern
and western St. Lawrence sites, simpler in design, the lines being
graceful but not so flowing, with circles made by compass or drill,
and with no protuberances ; and finally (3) the well known modern
and simplified art found at all of the recent sites.

The work on Punuk Island ended August 17 when the Northland
came for us. A stop was made at Gambell where I purchased speci-
mens and examined the old village site with Mr. Otto W. Geist, who
is excavating for the Alaska School of Mines.

We were next put ashore at Cape Prince of Wales for the purpose
of investigating reported ancient sites on the Arctic coast between
Wales and Shishmareff. In an Eskimo skin boat we sailed up the coast
and camped at Metlatavik, the first of these old villages, 22 miles
from Wales. Although many specimens were obtained, nothing of
any real antiquity was found. The thickest accumulation of refuse
was three feet, throughout which iron occurred. The total absence
148 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Fic. 135.—Partially excavated house of recent period, Punuk Island.

Itc. 136.—Ruined house of the historic period, Punuk Island. The frame-
work was of driftwood logs and whale bones. The houses are square in
outline, semisubterranean, and are entered by a long, narrow tunnel.

SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, I G28 49

of the old art, and the almost modern stamp of most of the specimens,
shows that Metlatavik was settled in comparatively recent times,
probably not earlier than 200 years ago.

There has been in the past a widely held opinion that the original
Eskimo culture arose in north central Canada and spread east and
west to Greenland and Alaska. The comparatively rich art of the
modern Alaskan Eskimo, together with other features of their culture,
was thought to have been strongly influenced by later contact with
neighboring Indian tribes. On the contrary, it now appears that the
modern Alaskan [Eskimo are directly descended from a very early,
even more advanced Eskimo group that flourished for centuries in
and about Bering Strait.

The beginnings of this ancient Eskimo culture remain to be traced.
If the lower levels of the middens at the northern and northwestern
St. Lawrence sites reveal no evidence of its early development this
may very likely be found to have taken place in northeastern Siberia,
in the region occupied at present by the Siberian Eskimo or along
the Arctic coast immediately to the westward. The reasons favoring
Siberia in this regard are the following: The modern St. Lawrence
Island and Siberian Eskimo are closely akin, speak the same dialect
and maintain trade and social contacts. Our archeological work shows
this relationship to have extended back far beyond the historic period.
And finally, the old style of art is perfectly represented on a number
of specimens from northeastern Siberia that have found their way
into various museums.

That this early Alaskan culture exerted a strong influence to the
eastward is shown by the recent finds of T. Mathiassen, the Danish
archeologist. The Thule culture which he finds in northwest Green-
land, Baffin Land, and north of Hudson Bay is the most ancient that
has come to light in those regions. It is, however, clearly derived from
Alaska, from where it seems to have spread at a relatively late period,
after the ancient Alaska culture had established itself on the islands
and on both sides of Bering Strait.

Thus we begin to get a somewhat clearer view of the more impor-
tant early movements of the Eskimo. There have, apparently, been
various other and counter movements ; strongly localized cultures may
have sprung up; and direct or indirect contact with Indian tribes has
influenced to a certain degree some of the Eskimo groups. Such
movements, growths, and contacts have doubtless had a large part in
the development of the present Eskimo groups, from Greenland to
Siberia, and yet the archeological evidence, which is the most direct
150 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

and tangible evidence at our disposal, seems to indicate clearly enough
that the oldest and at the same time the most advanced Eskimo culture
centered about Bering Strait. While its origin is not known it is seen
to have strongly influenced the extinct Thule culture of Greenland and
Canada and to have supplied the greater number of elements making
up the culture of the present Eskimo of Alaska and Siberia.

ii Osi“ "CAkUSA INDIANS OF SOUTHWESTERN
FEORIDA

By HENRY 7B) COLELNS, JR:
Assistant Curator, Division of Ethnology, U. S. National Musewm

Of the more important Indian tribes native to the Southern States
none has been so nearly lost to history as the Calusa, who once
dominated a large part of western and southern Florida. The first
recorded contact of the Calusa with Europeans was in 1513 when they
successfully opposed the landing of Ponce de Leon on their shores. In
later years they were gradually pushed outward to the more remote
keys and decreased in numbers and importance until, about 1835, there
was only a remnant left. Of the Calusa language nothing has survived
beyond the names of their former villages ; information on their cus-
toms is likewise scanty, and of their physical type very little is known.
Archeology alone can throw light on this latter phase, in addition to
supplying data on certain aspects of their material culture, and it was
for this purpose that I was detailed by the U. S. National Museum to
conduct archeological work in southwest Florida during the winter
of 1927-28.

Two weeks were spent in making an examination of many of the
shell heaps and sand mounds in Lee, Collier, and Hendry counties,
following which more intensive work was carried on for another two
weeks. This work was greatly facilitated by the cooperation of Mr.
George Hyatt of Fort Myers, at whose suggestion the work was
undertaken, and of Mr. W. E. Colton, also of Fort Myers, who very
generously placed at my disposal his automobile and motor boat.

The aboriginal remains of this region are of two kinds, the kitchen-
middens or large heaps of shells, animal bones, and other refuse
thrown out by the ancient inhabitants, and the artificial sand mounds
sometimes built for burial purposes and sometimes as foundations for
temples or dwellings. The sand mounds that were found on the keys,
or islands, were in each case associated with extensive kitchen-middens
and had served as burial places for the Indians who lived nearby.
Away from the coast, however, there were other sand mounds, some
entirely artificial and some merely natural ridges or hills that had been
built higher. These mounds contained few or no burials and revealed

its i
SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Doe

Fic. 137,—Mixed blood Seminole Indians who now live in the regions formerly
occupied by the Calusa.

Fic. 138—Shell heaps on Regla Key, southwest Florida.
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1928 153

but slight evidence of human occupancy. The most interesting of
these inland sand mounds was a large one at Citrus Center, oval in
outline, with three projecting arms 40, 100, and 300 feet long. There
was no evidence that any burials had been made in it and of cultural
material only a few potsherds were found. In appearance it was some-
what similar to the effigy mounds of the north and this resemblance
was increased by a semicircular embankment, averaging three feet
high and 1o feet wide, inclosing the greater part of the mound.
Another evidence of aboriginal construction undoubtedly bearing some
relation to this mound was a canal, still quite distinct, beginning less
than half a mile away and extending to the westward for about a
mile and a half, finally to lose itself in a swamp.

While the much larger shell heaps examined along the coast and
on the keys had not in a proper sense been constructed at all, a few
of them appeared to have been partially leveled off. Another work of
intentional nature was a trench or canal passing through one end of a
large shell heap on Captiva Island. This canal extended for a short
distance beyond the shell heap, bordered by a low narrow embankment
of sand which continued to the northward for a quarter of a mile, at
which point it suddenly turned and formed a partial inclosure. The
piling up of the shells forming this great heap and of others similar
to it was, however, in no way intentional or premeditated. The heaps
are true kitchen-middens, having resulted from the gradual accumula-
tion of refuse through many years of occupancy by the Indians. This
is proved by the stratified condition of the middens, which is especially
noticeable in a number of places where they have been partially exca-
vated for road material, leaving banks and sections exposed showing
from top to bottom layers of ashes, burned shells and earth mixed
with potsherds, animal bones, and other débris.

A short distance from the large shell heap on Captiva Island was
a small sand burial mound, which, like every other mound examined,
had been dug into by treasure seekers. For some reason Indian
mounds seem to be the favorite digging grounds for people in search
of treasure. There is always a local legend to justify the belief that
treasure is buried in the vicinity. Along the Gulf Coast it is usually
some well-known pirate who planted his golden horde ; in other places
it may be some historic Indian chief whose reputed wealth increases
with the passing of the years. The result is that there is scarcely a
mound in the entire Gulf region that has escaped this kind of investiga-
tion and many valuable bones and other specimens have thus been

destroyed. From the size of the excavation in this Captiva burial
Il
INSTITUTION

SMITHSONIAN

154

pues Joddn ut

spering

‘punoul JO JdAe]
‘punow vAyde) Ul sT[uyYS—OPFI “OI

‘purysyT vaAndesy uo
punow [ering JO aseq punose syjays YOUOS JO Joplog—‘6EL1 “DLT

SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1928 isis
mound and from the quantities of broken bones scattered about many
skulls and skeletons must have been uncovered and destroyed. Fortu-
nately, however, a large part of the mound had been left undisturbed
and I was able to obtain over 70 skulls in condition to be measured.

The mound had been built only a few yards from the water’s edge
in a thick mangrove swamp. A pile of crushed shells and sand—beach
material brought over from the opposite side of the island—had been
first deposited and this, becoming saturated with the moisture of the
underlying muck, had consolidated into a hard cement-like substance.

The bones enclosed in this material were in very good condition but

Fic. 141.—Mr. W. E. Colton of Fort Myers examining burials in the solidified
layer in the lower part of the Captiva mound.

were difficult to remove as they had to be chipped out with hammer
and chisel. Above this lower layer of solidified shells and sand had
been piled several feet of pure sand and in this there were other
burials which were not so well preserved as those beneath. Burials
were of two types: Original, with the bones in anatomical order and
the limbs flexed ; and secondary, with the bones disjointed, represent-
ing a deposit of loose bones that had been previously buried or kept
for a time elsewhere. The secondary burials were found only in the
upper sand layer. An interesting feature of the burials in this mound
was that fragments of earthenware cooking pots had been carefully
placed about many of the skulls.
150 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Excavation along the edge of the mound revealed a border of large
conch shells arranged in two and three rows with their upper ends
facing the mound. This border was from 16 inches to three feet in
width and followed the curve of the mound at its base. It may origi-
nally have extended around the mound and have been destroyed by
previous digging. A somewhat similar condition was found at the
opposite side of the mound where, sloping upward from the base, a
space of several feet had been covered with a “ pavement” of pots-
herds. Among these potsherds were four pieces of human occipital
bone, at least three of which belonged to different skulls.

AY BUIRILA ley GAVE INV KENTUCKY
By NEIL M. JUDD,

Curator, Division of American Archeology, U. S. National Museuim

The United States was functioning as a “ melting-pot”’ for racial
groups long before the Pilgrims set foot on Plymouth Rock. Diverse
Indian tribes roamed the eastern woodlands, the central plains, the
deserts and mountains of the West. Ethnologists estimate that more
than 200 mutually unintelligible languages or dialects were spoken
by the Indian population of the United States at the beginning of
French and English exploration. Each of these languages represents
an aboriginal group distantly, if at all, related to the others. Each
group claimed a certain area as its own and defended that area from
attack or occasionally increased it at the expense of neighboring
peoples. Tribes contended with each other for the most desirable
hunting grounds and frequently migrated far from their ancestral
homes. When horses were introduced by Europeans in the sixteenth
and seventeenth centuries the Indians speedily appropriated all they
could capture, thus facilitating tribal movements and the activities of
raiding parties.

The southeastern United States with its fertile valleys, forested
mountains and temperate climate was inhabited by various tribes whose
prehistoric remains have partially survived the passing centuries. In-
numerable village sites and camping places are known between the
Mississippi and the Atlantic coast; mounds erected as sepulchers or
sanctuaries stand as monuments to their primitive builders from the
Ohio to the Gulf. Archeologists seek to recover something of these
native American civilizations which slowly evolved, reached the zenith
of their development in pre-Columbian times and rapidly perished
under the impact of European conquest. The prehistory of the United
States is distinct from, yet inseparably connected with, its history
since Sir Walter Raleigh attempted unsuccessfully to found the
Roanoke Colony in 1584. From its establishment in 1846, the Smith-
sonian Institution has actively participated in researches pertaining to
every phase of American prehistory.

Indian village sites are to be found in each of the 48 States but it
is not yet possible always to identify the former occupants of a par-
ticular site from the ancient remains found there. Our aboriginal

157
158 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Lihbed

te af hilt. ths >,
Be. |

Fic. 142.—Covered basket of double weave, made of split cane, from the
Wolf Creek Cave.

Fic. 143.—Headband of tanned buffalo (?) hide, with ropes attached.

SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1928 159

predecessors left no written record, no interpretable hieroglyphic sys-
tem, to guide investigators of the present. Only by painstaking ex-
ploration and the careful weighing of all recoverable data related to a
given site and its associated artifacts can we hope eventually to acquire
a detailed knowledge of prehistoric Indian life, tribal organizations
and intertribal relationships.

During the early summer of 1928, Mr. H. Hughes of Ono, Russell
County, Kentucky, kindly advised the Smithsonian Institution that
certain Indian remains had shortly before been exhumed from a cave
in the bluffs bordering Wolf Creek, a branch of Cumberland River.
To examine these objects and the scene of their discovery, the writer
proceeded to Ono in early June. Kentucky at that time was experi-
encing unprecedented rains. Rivers were out of bank; roads were
well-nigh impassable for motors ; saddle mules were stained with the
red mud of mountain trails.

In company with Mr. Hughes and the three gentlemen concerned
with discovery of the material in question, the writer examined the
several objects and later visited the cave from which they had been
removed. These artifacts included a twilled basket and enveloping
cover of cane splints ; fragments of other baskets or mats ; a headband
of tanned buckskin or buffalo hide, with fiber ropes attached; frag-
ments of an olivella shell necklace, and lesser articles. Corn cobs,
pieces of squash rind, and a single small red bean identified the former
occupants of the cave as an agricultural people whose permanent
dwellings were doubtless in the valley below. The habitable floor space
of the cavern was extremely limited ; layers of charcoal, burned earth,
and decomposed vegetable matter evidenced brief, repeated occupancy.

I have called this site a cave but more correctly it is a rock
shelter and a very inconsequential shelter at that. Its terraced floor,
of disintegrating shale, slopes abruptly down from the harder, over-
lying limestone formation into an incipient creek. It rained while we
were in the shelter and noisy torrents poured over the rimrock, carry-
ing brush and stones to choke the narrow gorge. Mists from the
falling flood drifted through the cave; the wet shale glistened in the
half light. We may assume such occurrences have happened repeatedly
since Indians camped there and boiled rabbit stews in earthen vessels,
marked by a cord-wrapped paddle. The wonder remains, therefore,
that basketry or any other perishable material could have survived
many seasons ; much less, the two or three hundred years these speci-
mens have lasted.

According to the discoverers, a burrowing groundhog had dislodged
several human toe bones, thus prompting the initial digging. Three
160 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

skeletons were exposed, two adults and an adolescent, but the crania
and many of the other bones had been carried away as curios. It is
probable, though not certain, that the baskets and headband were
deposited with the burials—my informants had not made close obser-
vations. On the occasion of my visit the sky was so dark no photo-
graphs could be made with the kodak at hand.

The three individuals buried in the Wolf Creek cave may have been
members of any one of several related tribes belonging to the Musko-
gean linguistic stock; they may have belonged to the Cherokee, that
aggressive and culturally advanced Iroquoian people whose forefathers
migrated southward from the St. Lawrence region in ancient times.
The covered basket would serve as an excellent means of identifica-
tion provided it were peculiar to a single tribe. Its straight sides
suggest a Choctaw origin ; but the Chickasaw wove similar receptacles.
Almost without question it came from farther south. In his Histoire de
La Louisiane, published in Paris in 1758, Du Pratz describes similar
baskets employed by Indian women “to protect their jewels and all
that contributes to ornamenting their persons. . .. . It is into these
that they put their earrings, bracelets, garters, beads, hair ribbons,
and vermilion to paint themselves.” Although Du Pratz may be
suspected of pure conjecture, at least in so far as the “ hair ribbons ”
are concerned, there can be no doubt these covered baskets were de-
signed to protect the more precious possessions of their makers.
Nomadic peoples did not trouble to acquire property.

Cah AIN SPARE YY PUBBEO VIEEAGES: IN
SOUTHWESTERN COLORADO

BYARRAN Kee Ee ROBERES IR:

Archeologist, Bureau of American Ethnology

Scattered along the lower benches and bluffs above the Piedra River
in southwestern Colorado are the remains of many prehistoric Indian
villages belonging to the earliest Pueblo period. Several of these one-
time communities were excavated by the writer during the summer
of 1928, with the result that much valuable data on house-types, as
well as many specimens of the material culture of the people, were
obtained. The sites were first discovered by the writer in the summer
of 1923 when he was conducting an archeological reconnaissance for
the State Historical and Natural History Society of Colorado. The
opportunity for an intensive investigation of them did not present
itself, however, until the 1928 field season.

The present day investigator finds himself confronted by a rather
curious paradox in the remains of these villages. Either through
accident or by intent they were swept by fire and that which destroyed
the houses then enables us to reconstruct them now. The dwellings
were for the most part rectangular one-room domiciles of pole and
adobe plaster construction. Due to the conflagration the plaster was
baked to a brick-like consistency which thus far has withstood the
erosive action of the centuries which must have passed since the early
Pueblo peoples dwelt there. Had it not been for this firing the adobe
would long ago have been melted back into the earth from which it
was taken and the unprotected poles would have decayed and fallen
into dust. In the majority of cases the timbers are no longer present,
it is true, but their imprints are ineffaceably preserved in the hardened
plaster. The walls and ceilings fell when the posts burned but in
falling they went down as units, not as a jumbled mass, and it is a
comparatively simple matter to determine the exact positions and
manner in which they stood. In a few of the houses portions of some
of the walls are still standing (fig. 145), and where such is the case
bits of charred posts are to be seen encompassed by the burned clay.

Evidence secured from more than 60 houses makes possible quite
definite conclusions as to their nature and the manner in which they
were grouped together to make a village. Two forms of construction

161
162 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

were observed. The predominant one had a shallow, rectangular pit,
from 12 to 18 inches deep, with a hard packed floor. The super-
structure was supported on posts set in the floor a short distance from
each corner. Some of the larger houses had six instead of four posts,
the two additional ones being placed at about the center of each side
wall. The upright posts carried stringers, which in turn supported
the roof and slightly sloping side walls. The latter had a frame-
work of small poles, placed from six to twelve inches apart, sloping
from the walls of the pit to the stringers on the main posts. The wall
poles were not embedded in the earth at their lower ends, as in the
case of the Late Basket Maker houses,’ but were held in position by

Fic. 144—View of the Piedra valley taken from one of the village sites. In the
middle background are two formations locally called the Chimney Rocks.

stringers supported on stones placed on the floor at the corners of
the room. Cross poles overspread with leaves and brush formed the
ceiling and roof. The entire wooden framework was then covered
with a six- to eight-inch thickness of plaster.

The second type of house, found only in one village, showed a
considerable advance over the first in that the support posts were
removed from the interior of the structure and incorporated in the
walls. Because of this feature there was no slant to the latter. The
pit portion of this group was less pronounced, averaging between six

1 Explorations and Field-work of the Smithsonian Institution in 1927. Smith-
sonian Publication No. 2957, Washington, 1928, p. 165.

SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1928 163

and ten inches in depth. The pole and plaster method of construction
continued, however.

Entrance, in most cases, seems to have been gained through small
doorways in the sides of the houses. Actual doorways, with two
exceptions, were not present in the ruins, but the large stones used
to close them were frequently found in positions which indicated
lateral openings. A few of the house remains suggested that the smoke
hole in the center of the roof had also served as an entrance.

An average village consisted of from six to fifteen houses, most
of which were grouped in a crescent shape—sometimes a rather long
and flattened one to be sure

although occasional structures were

Fic. 145.—Portions of walls in one of the ruins excavated.

erected with apparently no regard for the general configuration. This
tendency to the crescent shape obtained even where the contour of
the ground upon which the village was erected did not necessitate it.
The houses in general were quite close together but did not touch.
One of the outstanding exceptions was the village illustrated in the
plan (fig. 146), where three of them did form a single structure. This
is the village which contained the second type of house, however, and
which is a good example of the step taken when communities of a
single structure with many rooms developed out of those consisting
of many one-roomed isolated dwellings. The fullest benefits of such
an advance were not possible until the sloping-sided structures had
given way to straight-walled buildings.
164 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

The concave side of the village crescent was towards the east or
southeast and in every instance encompassed one or more circular

SS NR

~
~ CIRCULAR

“DEPRESSION a4 ; fr

REFUSE MOUND

\

MY

|

ial (ae

\\
\ \
NY

\\|
\
7 a

NY

sues

Piedra ,
|

Fic. 146.—Plan of one of the villages investigated.

depressions. The latter are both interesting and puzzling. There seems
to be no question but that they are the remains of the pits from which

SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1928 1605

the adobe used in the construction of the houses was taken, but their
usefulness did not always end there. In some cases they served in the
construction of kivas or circular ceremonial rooms, while in others
they seem to have functioned as reservoirs. It is impossible to tell
in any given case, without hard and tedious excavation, which the
depression may be.

Kivas were simple in form. After the roughly circular pit had been
dug to the desired depth, it was covered with a roof supported on
four posts. The native earth walls and floor were covered with a
coating of plaster. There was no bench as found in later kivas; the
sipapu, representing the mythical place of emergence from the earth,

Fic. 147.—Portion of a kiva. Double ventilator an unusual feature.

and fire-screen were also missing. There was a ventilator, however,
at the southeast side. In the example pictured (fig. 147), it is rather
curious in form, having two openings into the chamber and only a
single shaft as an exterior outlet. This particular kiva had been
connected to one of the houses, as shown in the plan of the village,
by an underground passage which opened into it on the west side.
This feature, except for the difference in orientation, seems to repre-
sent the forerunner of the closely comparable one found in the unit-
pueblos of the following cultural period.

The burning of the houses not only served to preserve a record
of the methods used in their construction, but also was responsible for
the finding of many specimens in the ruins. Because of the haste in
INSTITUTION

SMITHSONIAN

166

‘SuUIOF Jef poas d1}st1ojIVIeEYQ—OFI ‘D1

‘SUOTJEALOXI SULINP poyyseauN s~Moq JVoIdA T— esti

‘OI

SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1928

ed jars.

see

Decorated

150.

Fic.

1607

ges.

illa

in vi

found

hers

s of pitc

form

c Various

ING, WET:
108 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

which the structures were abandoned, practically none of the posses-
sions of the people was removed, and consequently a large collection
of pottery was secured. The vessels had been left on the floor around
the walls and in the corners of the rooms. In practically every instance
they were filled to the brim with charred corn, beans, or dried fruit.
This suggests that disaster must have fallen upon the village not
long after the harvest season, when the larders were well filled.

Pottery specimens collected include culinary vessels of the banded-
neck variety; white containers with painted black designs; and red
wares with painted black decoration. Forms in the painted wares
include bowls (fig. 148), jars (figs. 149, 150), pitchers (fig. 151), and
ladles. One rather unusual feature noted in the ceramics is the large
number of seed jar forms (figs. 149, 150). They represent a much
larger proportion of the total number of vessels than is generally
found at such sites. Including pottery from the graves, more than
250 specimens were secured during the summer’s work.

The inhabitants of the villages left various implements used in
their daily life. Those made from stone include many very fine
arrowheads, a few knives, grooved mauls, axes, and hoes; also polish-
ing stones, pot-lids, and metates. The bone implements were chiefly
awls and punches made from the long bones of large mammals,
probably deer.

Ornaments were not plentiful and the few found do not show very
great diversity in form. They include stone, shell, and bone beads,
stone pendants and shell bracelets. Turquoise was practically absent.
Only two small fragments of this usually popular stone were found
during the entire course of the investigations.

Burials in practically all cases were in the refuse mounds of the
villages. The body was placed in the contracted position and with
very few exceptions was accompanied by mortuary offerings of
pottery. In more than half of the burials the body had been placed on
the left side with the head approximately toward the north. Where
the head was in another direction the face was practically always
toward the north, suggesting that a factor of some significance was
attached to that point of the compass.

The refuse mounds did not occupy any definite position with respect
to the village, as in later periods, but were located at the most con-
venient spot regardless of whether it was at the north, south, east, or
west side of the community. Sometimes a mound was within the
village circle.

STUDYING THE MISSION INDIANS OF CALIFORNIA
AND THE TAOS OF NEW MEXICO

By J. P. HARRINGTON,

Ethnologist, Bureau of American L:thnology

A double veil has been drawn over the Mission Indians of Calt-
fornia. They did not yield their civilization directly to the Americans,
as did the Indians elsewhere in the state, but first to a Spanish culture,
which persisted for only two or three generations, but strongly. At
the same time the Mission area covers the picturesque shores of the
southern half of California, including San Francisco, Los Angeles,
and San Diego, the portion of the state which now holds the center
of population and the focus of interest. To piece together the life
of its red men is, therefore, doubly difficult and important.

Both field and office study by the writer in 1928 bore on the
preparation of two monographic manuscripts for publication by the
Bureau of American Ethnology, one on the Chumashan Mission
Indians of California, the other on the Taos Indians of New Mexico.
The beginning of the year found him in California engaged in field-
work at Santa Barbara. In March he returned to the Bureau, and
in July took the field again, proceeding first to California and then to
New Mexico, returning to Washington in October and spending the
remainder of the year in the elaboration of his recent and earlier
notes.

The Californian work consisted of recording the knowledge of sur-
viving Indians and of searching the Mission archives and the Ban-
croft Library at Berkeley for historical documents which might furnish
information on the all but obliterated customs of these Indians. The
historical search especially was richly rewarded by the discovery of
several new manuscript sources.

As regards their ethnology, the Chumashan Indians are in a pecu-
liarly unfortunate position. Instead of preserving their aboriginal
customs up to 1850, as did most of the California Indians, they were
forced to give them up considerably earlier, as their territory was
included in that colonized by the Spanish in the eighteenth century, and

12 169
170 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

being on the coast they suffered more than the inland Indians, as was
always the case. When finally the Americans came, in the middle of the
nineteenth century, there were no ethnologists among them to write
down what could still have been told by aged Indians. What the
writer has accomplished is the piecing together of every scrap of
information in the Spanish language, and illuminating the first-hand
informational structure thus built up with the knowledge that sur-
viving individuals of Indian descent can contribute.

Fic. 152.—Sra. Mariana Hall, Chumashan Indian informant.

The Chumashan idea of the proper figure of a man was to be built as
straight as an arrow, big chested, and with body tapering from chest
to toes. These Indians lived as much outdoors as did any wild animals,
and they had an almost uncanny strength when aroused. The day
was started and again ended with a cold bath. In the early morning
a man and all his family, from babies to centenarians, headed for
the arroyo and plunged in. The day was spent in hunting, fishing,
gathering of vegetable food, and similar pursuits, and at sundown a
Turkish bath in the temascal or hot house was indulged in, fol-
lowed by another plunge in the cold water, and a hearty meal. After

SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1928 MA

this meal came story-telling by the firelight, or perhaps one of the
various dance ceremonies, often extending far into the night.

So wholesome and tasty was the food commonly used by the
Chumashans that scarcely an article was too rich to be given to young
children. Acorn meal, delicious and fluffy in consistency, was the
staff of life, and all other foods were regarded rather as condiments
to go along with this ever-present porridge. Grass seeds were toasted
to make pinole, which was eaten dry, stirred up in cold water, boiled
like mush, or made into cakes. This second cooking made better mush
than that prepared from raw meal. There were no alcoholic drinks.

The Chumashan house was shaped like the rimless hat worn by
the Indian women, to employ a comparison suggested by the Indians
themselves, or, to use the expression of one of the early chroniclers,
“round, very roomy, large and high, shaped like a half orange.” It
was constructed of a framework of poles, usually willow, three or
four inches in diameter at the butt end and as tall and straight as
could be found. These poles were erected in a circle, about one pace
apart, with their bases inserted in holes dug with a sharp stick and
often scooped out with an abalone shell. The top of each pole was
bent over and lashed to the top of the pole opposite giving the desired
round shape to the top of the house.

Before applying the thatch, which was of carrizo, tule, or whatever
was handy, small poles were attached around the uprights in the manner
of horizontal hoops. These hoops were in parallel pairs, one outside
the uprights and the other inside, and between the two the thatch was
compressed. The base of the thatch of each tier covered the outer
poles which held the tier next below in position. The lowest tier of
thatching was usually applied in upright or natural position to give it
greater strength where it rested on or was inserted in the ground, but
successive tiers above were applied in an inverted position, the better
to shed water.

Ventilation was adequately provided for in these Chumashan houses.
Besides the low door, usually closed only by means of tule mats, many
of the houses had a few side holes or windowlets, as well as a good-
sized smokehole at the top of the dome. The fireplace was toward the
door from the center of the house, and a fire was kept burning or
banked most of the time. This fire was used for a part of the cooking,
the rest being done on outdoor fires.

The houses were usually 12 to 18 feet in diameter and high enough
to enable a person to stand erect in the central part. They were
arranged in rancherias, or villages, for mutual protection, each village
172 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

containing a moderate number of houses arranged in rows, according
to chance growth and convenience. The house of the chief was dis-
tinguished in no way from other houses.

In or near the rancheria was the cemetery. In some cases there
were several ; grave groups might even be found, as a result of village
growth and history, amid the very houses of the village. The ceme-
teries were restricted in area, the desire of a dying person being to
have his bones interred with those of his ancestors. If bones were
unearthed in the digging of a grave they were respectfully laid aside
and carefully reburied before the new interment was completed. The
graves were marked in various ways so that the cemetery was a
conspicuous feature, and its location well-known to all.

The village was governed by a chief whose rule was very demo-
cratic. He prided himself upon his liberal and thoughtful judgments.
Through association with those men of the tribe who had the greatest
traditional knowledge, he acquired much wisdom and his words were
greatly valued as counsel. The chief interfered little in the affairs
of families, but represented the village in all dealings with other
villages. He was looked upon as a helper rather than a ruler of the
people, and so democratic was the whole scheme that women often
became chiefs.

Indian life was not more lawless than life among other peoples.
Everything was prescribed by custom, and the average Indian was
slow-going and thoughtful, endeavoring to conduct himself in accor-
dance with these customs. Enmities existed, of course, between indi-
viduals and especially between villages, sometimes of long standing,
but these were not permitted to develop into large and useless wars.
The people were frugal, although they loved games of chance and
personal adornment, as have people of all times. Their lives were,
of course, intensely interesting to them. Although their field of in-
terest would seem to us a very narrow one, nevertheless it was rich
enough to supply all the reactions needed for intense thought and
activity.

The writer’s investigations in California included the identification
of Indian place names and the studying of the early maps of the
region. When Juan Rodriguez Cabrillo steered his two little vessels
up the Santa Barbara channel in October, 1542, the Indians who had
boarded the ships started naming the pueblos along the shore, and the
Spaniards contributed the idea of writing down the names that were
being called out. As a result, there exist several lists of place-names
many of which the writer has succeeded in definitely identifying. For

SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1928 173

yir?

+ aekle Grau, thoes
/ }

Fic. 153.—Map of the Santa Barbara Channel prepared by the Vizcaino expedition
in 1602, showing a ‘“ pueblo grande” of the Indians on the mainland shore. From
manuscript in the Bancroft Library.
Fic. 154.—Intact two-piece fishhook (upper figure) from the lower
Klamath River, California, collected by Mr. Frank FE. Gist, Cat. No.
278,488, U. S. Nat. Mus., compared with disattached parts of similar
fishhooks (lower figure) excavated by Mr. Harrington in the Chumashan
area.

174

SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1928 Ly,

on

the success of these studies, he is greatly indebted to Professor H. E.
Bolton and to Mr. F. W. Hodge.

A study was also made of the earliest detailed maps of the Cali-
fornia coast, those prepared by Sebastian Vizcaino’s cartographer in
1601-1603. The map of this series representing the eastern and cen-
tral section of the Santa Barbara Channel is reproduced here as
figure 153. A “ pueblo grande” or large town of the Indians on the
mainland shore will be seen indicated at the upper right-hand corner
of the map. Practically every feature on the Vizcaino maps has been
definitely identified and explained. A comparative study has been
made of the copies of these maps in the Archivo General de Indias,
Sevilla, 60-4-37; in the Direccién de Hidrografia, Madrid, bol.
Navarrete, tomo 19, no. g; in Lowry, Spanish Settlements in the
United States, California Transcripts, Library of Congress; and in
the Bancroft Library, University of California.

Numerous disconnected parts of two-piece bone fishhooks have been
found by the writer in his California investigations and such frag-
ments had already been described by the Rev. Stephen Bowers in the
first volume of Science in 1883. No such fishhook had ever been
found intact, however, until this year, when in looking over collections
in the National Museum, the writer found an entire specimen (see
fig. 154). It was collected by Mr. Frank E. Gist, of Weitchpec, Cali-
fornia, years ago; it is in perfect condition with wrapping, pitching,
and attached cord, and is precisely the article known from the Santa
Barbara channel graves.

The work at Taos, New Mexico, consisted of a complete inter-
pretation of the life and customs of the Taos Indians, and the writer
had the privilege of witnessing the famous San Geronimo Day dance.
The distinctive costumes still worn by the Taos men are shown in
figure 155. Nowhere among our United States Indians are old customs
more faithfully followed at the present time than in this picturesque
corner of the southern Rocky Mountains. A large map of the region
was prepared, with the help of Mr. L. Pascual Martinez. One of the
sacred places of the Indians, Blue Lake, is shown in figure 156. A
Taos dictionary of several thousand words was also prepared, con-
taining, among other features, Taos bird identifications by Professor
Vernon Bailey and Mrs. Florence Merriam Bailey.

The Pueblo of Taos, situated on both sides of a beautiful and
strong-flowing eastern tributary creek of the Rio Grande at an altitude
of 6,500 feet, is in many respects the most remarkable of the pueblos.
It has the distinction of lying furthest north of all the Indian pueblos
176

Fic.

TSG:

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

The Governor of Taos, 1927, illustrating two ways of
wearing the blanket. (Photographs by Fred Clark.)

SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1928

N

Sy

1ans.

f the Taos Indi

ces OL t

the most sacred pla

of

1 Fe Range, one

anta

he S

ml Ve

Ic. 156.—Blue Lake

F
178 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

of the old Spanish province of New Mexico. Moreover, it is stated
in the reports of the Coronado Expedition, 1543, to have been the
largest of the pueblos and to have had the finest estufas. Again, it has
played the most prominent part of all pueblos in New Mexico history.
It is the pueblo that has the tallest people and those of most comely
appearance. Its people are the proudest of the Pueblos and have most
nobly preserved their American racial customs against all encroach-
ments of foreign firearms, firewater, debauchery, and Mexican and
American custom. The history of Taos presents a brilliant pageantry.
Its social organization remains as in the days of Coronado. Its
religious life is filled with beautiful and true symbolism derived from
the gorgeous universe in which the people dwell. The language is
smooth and flexible and its study gives one great respect for the
superior mentality of the Taos people.

‘Tahlaphaiba, “ Up at the Red-looking Willows,” is what the Taos
Indians themselves call Taos. The pueblo is built at a big patch of
Sandbar Willow, Salix exigua Nutt., which extends around and far
south from the village. The stems of this species are red, giving a red
appearance to the trees; hence the name. The gall-midges, resembling
buds, with which these trees are laden are Rhabdophaga strobiloides
Osten-Sacken. The modern town of Taos, earlier called Fernandez
de Taos, three miles south of the pueblo, is to the Indians P’axwianu-
wa’aga, “ Down at the Lake of Night.” Pueblo Peak, the sacred dome
mountain northeast of the pueblo, is Maxwaluna, “ The High One,”
while far to the west, in the hill region beyond the Rio Grande, stands
up a little two-peak mountain, Tuxwat’ahloathutha, ‘‘ Coyote-Ears
Pile.” The names of places all about are ancient and fascinating.

Taos is called in the reports of the Coronado Expedition “ Yuraba,”’
“ Uraba,” and “ Braba.” This also has been unraveled and Braba is
pointed out by the writer for the first time to be for Vraba, 7. e., Uraba,
and this in turn for Yuraba, which Hodge has already identified as the
Pecos name for Taos.

fA CULTURE OF THE TINDIANS OF EASTERN CANADA

By Jee By ELE Wit 1,
Ethnologist, Bureau of American Ethnology

In the provinces of Quebec and Ontario, Canada, there dwell
remnants of the tribes of the Six Nations of the Iroquois and of the
Hurons, and also small bands of the Chippewa and of the Delawares
of the Algonquian stock, whose myths, social organizations, religious
institutions, and languages offer a field for the intensive study of the
culture of these native Indians. For a number of years I have carried
on researches in these subjects among these tribes.

During the 1928 field season, between May 18 and June 30, I visited
four widely separated Indian reservations in carrying on these studies,
namely, those at Garden River near Sault Ste. Marie, Ontario, Canada,
at La Jeune Lorette, near Quebec, P. Q., at Caughnawaga, near
Montreal, P. Q., and on the Grand River Grant, near Brantford,
Ontario, Canada.

At Garden River, with the assistance of Mr. George Gabaoosa, a
Chippewa Indian, I revised and cleared up some moot points occurring
in the translation and interpretation of a number of Chippewa myths
of origin concerning Nanabozho and his grandmother, which had been
recorded in previous years from Mr. John L. Miscogeon of Arbre
Croche, Michigan, and from Mr. Gabaoosa.

At La Jeune Lorette I recorded a very satisfactory vocabulary of
Huron words, which showed the blending of at least two dialects.

At Caughnawaga, about nine miles above Montreal and directly
across the St. Lawrence river from La Chine, I renewed my quest for
any definite knowledge of the institutions of the League of the Iroquois
on the part of the 17th century emigrants from the Mohawk and other
Iroquois tribes of the Colony of New York now living there. It was
found that the Caughnawaga Indians have practically no trustworthy
knowledge of the structure and the institutions of the ancient League.
They have forgotten this knowledge so completely that, probably
unwittingly, they have confused the ethical principles of civil govern-
ment propounded by the founders of the League with the religious
teachings of the Seneca prophet, Handsome Lake. This confusion of
two distinct forms of discipline, in such wise that they have come to
be regarded as essentially one and the same, has unfortunately resulted

179
180 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

in a singular religious antagonism to them in the minds of these
Christian converts. The teachings of Deganawida and Handsome
Lake, thus erroneously coupled, were lightly repudiated as the futile
expression of rank heathenism. But these perverted views of the
institutions of the League are most tenaciously held, the tenacity vary-
ing usually in inverse ratio to the probability of their truth. The
Indians boast several clans which could not have been in existence at

ff

Fic. 157.—Chief Prudent Sioui, a Huron

(Iroquoian) of La Jeune Lorette, near
Quebec, Canada.

Pee eh eee

the date of the founding of the League, although they maintain that
these units belong to the earliest League organization. Such are the
Onondaga (roti'séindke “te’) and the Oneida (rotinényote’ *ronno”
clans. So unreal was the basis for these two units that the calwmet
was made the clan blazon of the Onondaga, when in fact it belongs
to the Oneida tribe. I here differentiate clan from tribe.

On the Grand River Grant, among the Six Nations of the Iroquois
dwelling there, | devoted my researches to the translation and elucida-
tion of a number of brief myths, recorded in former years, relating

SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1928

Fic. 158.—The Mace of the Federal Council of the League of the Iroquois.

182 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

to the Wind or Disease Gods. Owing to the efficient aid of Chief
John Buck, a Tutelo-Onondaga mixed-blood, this work was very
successful. These Disease Gods are Man-Beings, the offspring of the
exuberant creative faculty of the human mind. They are represented
by means of likenesses in wood or corn-husks, which are universally
miscalled masks and even falsefaces. Both these designations convey
ideas absolutely contrary to the native Indian conception of these
likenesses. The purpose of the likenesses in wood and corn-husks is not
to conceal or to hide—to mask, so to speak—anything or person, but
to represent directly the Man-Being in mind. Furthermore, it is
learned that the ugly and misshapen features of these Disease Gods

+ v/s
Fic. 159.—Mr. and Mrs. John Buck. Mr. Buck is a chief of the Tutelo
(Siouan) remnant among the Six Nations of Ontario, Canada.

are the result of their defeat and subjection by the Life God or Master
of Life, and are therefore the everlasting token of such subjection.

Through a number of fortunate circumstances I was able at this
time to secure what in use and purpose was the Mace of the Great
Federal Council of the League of the Iroquois; it consists of five
white strings and one purple string of wampum, each of which is
three feet in length. The five white strings represented the right
and authority of the original Five Iroquois tribes, and the purple
string of wampum that of all other tribes adopted into the jurisdiction
of the League, legally to hold and to participate in the sessions of the
Federal Council. So in opening and in closing the sessions of this
Council the Firekeeper or the Speaker of the Council held suspended
from his hand this symbol of delegated authority.

ALGONQUIAN INDIAN TRIBES OF OKLAHOMA
AND IOWA

By TRUMAN MICHELSON,

Ethnologist, Bureau of American Ethnology

To renew my researches among Algonquian tribes of Oklahoma
and Iowa, I left Washington July 5, making my first headquarters
at Shawnee and McLoud, Oklahoma, where field-work among the
so-called Sauk and Fox of the Mississippi and the Kickapoo may be
advantageously pursued. It may be explained that the name “ Sauk
and Fox of the Mississippi ”’ is a legal one, and does not correspond
to the ethnological facts, for in language they are Sauks, and the
social organization is Sauk, not Fox. It is true that there are some
Foxes incorporated with this group, but, with the exception of a few
recent comers, they all speak Sauk. The Sauk of Oklahoma to-day
are rapidly becoming civilized; scarcely a single aboriginal dwelling,
bark-house, or wickiup (wigwam) is to be seen. Native religion,
however, still persists with great vigor. Among the scientific results
obtained by the expedition may be mentioned the fact that the clan
(or, more technically, gens, as the Sauk are organized in exogamic
totemic groups with male descent) designated as ‘‘ Ringed Perch” by
Forsyth in 1827, despite the recent claim that it 1s only a personal
name, is in reality a clan as I had previously surmised from other docu-
mentary evidence and from field-work among the Foxes (Meskwakies )
of Iowa (see the goth Ann. Rept. Bur. Amer. Ethn., pp. 501, 502).
Nevertheless the evidence is only too plain that Sauk social organiza-
tion at the present time is but little understood, and that a long period
of intensive work will be needed to unravel it. It should be added that
the Sauk have a general term for the Potawatomi, another for the
Citizen Potawatomi of Oklahoma, and a third for the Prairie
Potawatomi of Kansas. This last corresponds to the designation
the Prairie Potawatomi give themselves according to Skinner; see
also below in my remarks on the Kickapoo of Oklahoma. Therefore
the contention that anciently there were two sets of “ Mascoutens,”
as I have long maintained, 1s again borne out. Finally it may be noted
that in phonology the Sauk language agrees in some important respects

183
INSTITUTION

SMITHSONIAN

184

(‘o16r ‘uosjoysiyy Aq Yydeis
-0}0Yq) ,{SMOIIW-oUIDIpeyY ,, Snourey oy} fo
Jodaay oy, ‘ouusseyD UoyIN0S W—'IOI “DIY

(‘uosjeysIyy Aq ydeasojoyg )
se uMOUN dINSY-suUIIjs ke

«2 8pliq bh
SuIMOoYs

‘XO & ‘phoy) Ase] _ 961095)— ‘O91 “D1
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1928 185

with Fox as opposed to Kickapoo. It will be recalled that all three
are very close to each other ; broadly speaking Fox and Kickapoo are
more archaic than Sauk.

The Kickapoo of Oklahoma to-day present a picture very different
from that of 1911 when I first worked among them. Practically
all of the young people have a fair knowledge of English, and citizen-
clothing is universally worn, though J did have the good fortune to
see a few men, who had come from Mexico, with buck-skin leggings.

Fic. 162.—Mexican Kickapoo of Oklahoma. In 1911 the Mexican Kickapoo
were still a comparatively primitive people, but they are now rapidly
adopting civilized customs.

Native ethnology, however, has survived with great vigor, and there
are still many dwellings built on aboriginal lines. In the ‘‘ bark-house ”
planks are substituted for the bark, but the planks are perpendicular—
not horizontal as among the Foxes of Iowa. The general scheme of
Kickapoo sociology is understood, but details are lacking as yet. With
all their progressiveness in many ways, they are tenaciously secretive
regarding their ancient civilization. It may be noted that children are
still named at special festivals, as was formerly the case among the
Foxes of lowa. The Kickapoo language in some respects (in vocalism,

13
a ean e RET oat

‘SoOXO,T pjO A]][Pa1 ay} JO JOATAINS
ySe] 94} SEM UOSSIT ydaso “SIN *QzO1 yo JOINS
94} UL pop ysodusaeq AdieyyY Usy AA “Pposvadap (‘1161 ‘uosjeystyy Aq ydessojoy )
A]JUNI0I ‘XO pose uv ‘UPSIOTY “SITY

‘VOI “DI ‘yneS uURWOYL]YO Ue ‘oye A\ Oo ][— EO! ‘OL

INSTITUTION

SMITHSONIAN

186

SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1928 187

technically) agrees with Ojibwa and Cree as opposed to Sauk and
Fox. Although Kickapoo may therefore be presumed to be more
archaic than Sauk and Fox in certain particulars, yet as a whole, Fox
is more archaic. There is a special term for a certain branch of the
Potawatomi, which corresponds to “ Mascoutens.”

Towards the close of July, I made my headquarters at the U. S.
Indian school at Concho, where for a short time I devoted most of
my attention to Southern Arapaho language, being fortunate enough
to secure the services of Cleaver Warden, who has worked with other
scientists previously (Dorsey, Mooney, Kroeber). Southern Arapaho
does not differ markedly from Northern Arapaho. As I have stated
on more than one occasion, Arapaho is a very divergent Algonquian
language. The phonetic shifts which occur are highly complicated, and
the quality of the vowels surrounding or adjacent to consonants must
ever be kept in mind when formulating these shifts. Owing to the
complex character of the shifts, words which superficially do not
seem the least Algonquian can nevertheless be shown to be such. Al-
though at present only a small percentage of the total vocabulary of
Arapaho can be shown to be Algonquian, it is possible that further
discovery of phonetic shifts will show a larger proportion of the
vocabulary to be such. In grammar Arapaho is fundamentally
Algonquian, even though some categories apparently have broken
down. It must be admitted that certain traits (particularly the order
of words) are distinctly unlike those of other Algonquian languages.
At the same time, I was able to discover some Algonquian features
which have hitherto been overlooked. Though spending most of my
time on linguistics, some important data on the military societies was
acquired. Incidentally, I heard some Southern Cheyenne spoken. It
apparently is not as divergent as Arapaho.

Shortly after the first week in August I went to Tama, Iowa, to
renew my work among the Foxes, whose native name when translated
into English means “‘ Red Earths.” Externally little change had taken
place since the previous season. It may be noted that making jewelry,
toy canoes, and baskets more than ever before supplies these Indians
with good incomes. Much of the basketry is modeled after Winnebago
styles, though the Foxes also have styles of their own. While at
Tama I restored a long text (written in the current syllabic script)
on the Wapanowiweni, and obtained some grammatical notes on it.
Some additional texts on some festivals of the War Chiefs gens, etc.,
and some translations were obtained, as well as important new data
on Fox sociology. The general ritualized character of Fox social
188 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

organization is abundantly clear. It is remarkable that these people
whose external life does not differ very strikingly from that of the
whites should have preserved such a wealth of lore and ceremonials.
Unlike many of our Indian tribes the Foxes not only remember their
ancient customs but still practice them.
MUSIC OF THE WINNEBAGO AND MENOMINEE
INDIANS OF WISCONSIN

By FRANCES DENSMORE,
Collaborator, Bureau of American Ethnology

For many years the writer has recorded and studied the music of
the American Indians, and during August and September, 1928, this
study was continued among the Winnebago and Menominee of Wis-
consin. One visit to each of these tribes had been made in previous
years, and the purpose of this trip was to witness certain dances, to
add details to the descriptions already obtained, and to record more
songs of certain classes. In the course of the work, about 1,900 miles
were covered by automobile.

The first tribe visited was the Winnebago, who were holding a
large dance near Black River Falls. Former acquaintance with this
conservative group of Winnebago was of assistance, and the writer
remained in the camp daily from morning until late evening. The
camp circle consisted of about 50 tents, the Indians having come from
a wide radius of country. In the middle of the circle was a structure
similar to that used by the Menominee and shown in figure 168. The
drum was like the Dream Dance drum of the Menominee; 15 men
beat upon it, seated closely on the square bench around it. The
men in costume numbered 25, and about 35 women and children joined
in the dances, many wearing elaborate Indian costumes gay with beads
and silk appliqué. The dancing, which continued three days, included
a portion of the green corn dance as well as war and social dances.
Both men and women took part in many of these dances, the women
forming a circle next the drum and the men dancing in a larger circle
around them.

Many interesting incidents were observed in the camp when the
dancing was not in progress. For example, the men in charge of the
drum were seen warming it beside a cooking fire in the daytime and a
camp fire at night, and on sunny days they carefully tilted the drum
against a bush so that the warmth of the sun would tighten the head
to the desired tension. In a tent, one morning, a group of men and
women were playing the “ plate game,” disks (or dice) being tossed

189
i &
|
" \
uf
nel
bea
]
‘ ed
[| /
ct
f 4
mod
oe |
1) tye
(a a)
te
\
1 (a
{fel
Yoo
| Bf
}
/
all
)
H
Ww hotel
mI
(7 bp vi
{ ' fl
i , fi
4 gy
Y |
' :
j
i
j
i {
' : \)
[i )
\
| |
‘a
\J i Ml
{"} ) wi
|
a
, (Ld
4 cl
j }
\
a)
Li ( i
a

SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1928 Ig!

Fic. 166.—Islands below dells of Wolf River, Menominee reservation,
Wisconsin.

1

Fic. 167——Log house in pine woods at Keshena, Menominee reservation.
(Photograph by Miss Densmore. )
192 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

when making the presentation speech and then handed it to the recipi-
ent of her gift. This represented the whip, and the horse was delivered
to the new owner at a subsequent time. Only one song is used when
the stick representing a horse is given away. This was recorded by
Henry Thunder and has the words “ He (or she) is brave enough
to give away a horse.”

Leaving the Winnebago at the conclusion of the dance, the writer
went to the Menominee reservation but returned to the Winnebago
in September and recorded numerous songs. She visited a wide
region in the vicinity of Tomah, Wisconsin, but found that the Indians
were absent in the cranberry marshes; accordingly she went each
day to Millston, where a member of the Thunder clan maintains a
basket-making camp. Songs were recorded there and at a similar camp
north of Black River Falls. The mild weather made it possible to
hold conferences in the open air. The recording instrument was a
dictaphone, which was placed on a bench or on the running board
of the car and was operated by a storage battery within the car. This
method has not been used heretofore but proved satisfactory.

A series of old war songs was recorded by Thundercloud, beginning
with the song at the dog feast before the departure of a war party
and continuing to their return with scalps of the enemy. These songs
are connected with a war bundle and are sung at the Winter Feast.
A description of the scalp dance included the custom of carrying the
scalps, fastened to poles, in a procession around the outside of a long
wigwam similar to the Medicine Lodge. After a similar procession
inside the wigwam, the poles bearing the scalps were stuck in the
ground east of the war bundle, and the drum and gourd rattles were
placed beside them. A similar performance was enacted when the
Winnebago young men returned from service in the World War,
except for the absence of the scalps. A new dance was also invented
to celebrate their victory. Several songs composed by Winnebago
soldiers when in France were added to those already obtained. One
such song was addressed to a young Indian who did not enlist and
contained the words, “ Our beloved flag went across the ocean and
came back. Are you really glad to see it back again? ”

Other recorded songs included those of the “first hunting,” in
which the Indian asks the chief of the deer for meat so that his people
may have food, and a second song of thanks for the meat. An inter-
esting moccasin-game song contained the words, ‘‘ Why do they call
me fish-winner?” In explanation of the latter it was said that in old
times when the people had nothing else to wager they used fish in

SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1928 193

Fic. 168.—Dance structure at Zoar, Menominee reservation, in which Dream
Dance was held. (Photograph by Miss Densmore. )

Fic. 169—Women singers at Menominee Dream Dance. (Photograph by
Miss Densmore. )
194 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

betting on the results of the moccasin game. The words of such songs
indicate their descent from a distant past. The work among the
Winnebago also included the recording of green corn dance songs,
several legends with their songs, and the songs of social dances.

From Black River Falls, in August, the writer went to Keshena
on the Menominee reservation, a region of picturesque water courses
and heavy pine woods (figs. 166 and 167). The first portion of her
time was devoted to reading her manuscript on Menominee music
to David Amob, a member of the tribe who speaks English and is
particularly conversant with the old customs. Many interesting addi-
tions to the material were made at this time, and songs were recorded
by Amob. Legends concerning Manabus recorded by Amob are
among the secret legends of the Medicine Lodge.

A Fair is held annually by the Menominee, and one of its attrac-
tions 1s the Indian dancing. This Fair continued five days, affording
a valuable opportunity to see dances which are seldom given at the
present time. Most interesting among these were the dances in which
the actions of birds and animals were imitated. Concerning one dance
it was said that a man saw a frog running on top of the water, then
diving and coming up farther along. The frog sang, and the man
learned his song. Later the man invented the dance in which this
song was sung at the drum while the dancers hopped like frogs.
Another dance song came from a fish and contained the words ( freely
translated) “ His mouth is open.’”’ Other songs were received from
the rabbit, partridge, owl, and crawfish, the actions of each creature
being imitated by the dancers. Only two or three old men knew the
songs for these dances and said that, so far as they remembered,
the dances had been used only for entertainment. The dancing
at the Fair included war and social dances, and the Tobacco Dance,
which is an acrobatic dance of unusual interest. Additional songs
and details of this dance were obtained from the singers after the
conclusion of the Fair.

During the latter portion of her stay among the Menominee, the
writer witnessed a Dream Dance at Zoar, a native village about 20
miles north of Keshena. The Dream Dance is a ceremony in which a
large drum is given by one tribe to another, this drum being the
symbol of what is called the “ drum religion.” At this time a drum
was given to the Menominee by the Lac du Flambeau Chippewa. The
ceremony continued four days and was watched with close attention,
on one day the writer remaining beside the dance enclosure for about
ten hours. The same ceremony was witnessed in 1910, at the same
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1928 195

Frc. 170.—Menominee and Chippewa singers with hand drums, Dream Dance
at Zoar, Wisconsin. (Photograph by Miss Densmore. )

Fic. 171.—Group of mourners at a rite for their benefit, Menominee Dream
Dance. (Photograph by Miss Densmore. )
196 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

location, in connection with a study of Chippewa music and, by a
further coincidence, the donor of the drum on both occasions was
White Feather of Lac du Flambeau. This afforded an opportunity
for comparing the two performances, and it was noted that the
ceremony of 1928 was given by a smaller number of people but with
no diminution of fervor and apparent sincerity. The writer found
former acquaintances among the Chippewa who assisted her in fol-
lowing the details of the ceremony. Assistance was also received from
the Menominee, especially from Rattlesnake, who acted as manager of
the event.

The drum is said to be the property of the tribe but is in charge
of one man, known as the “ drum owner.’ The Menominee recipient
of the drum was John P. Matchokemon. It will be his duty to keep
tobacco beside the drum and to hold frequent meetings at which the
ethical teachings of the ‘“‘ drum religion” are set forth.

The ceremony was held in the enclosure shown in figure 168, a
space for the drum being in the center. In this dance the women
sing with the men, holding their hands or shawls over their mouths
(fig. 169). They sit in a circle behind the men at the drum. This is a
custom of the Sioux, from whom the drum is said to have been
received.

On the second day of the gathering an interesting rite was per-
formed for ‘ restoring the mourners,” this terminating the period of
mourning by those who had lost relatives during the preceding year.
The mourners were seated at the left of the drum (fig. 171). Each
had an attendant and, while the proper songs were sung, the faces
of the mourners were washed, their hair was smoothly combed and
they were arrayed in fresh raiment. Their faces were painted with
red paint, ribbons were tied on the hair of the women and bead chains
were hung about their necks. Gifts of clothing and blankets were
piled in front of them and later they were led somewhat reluctantly
to seats near the drum. In the midst of so much attention they sat
with downcast eyes, but after this rite they were not expected to
show signs of grief.

On the third day the Chippewa were engaged in teaching the cere-
monial songs to the Menominee and small drums were used, only a
few persons dancing (fig. 170).

On the fourth and last day the large drum was taken from the
house of its new custodian (fig. 172) and placed on the ground a short
distance in front of his door. There the final songs were sung by
both tribes. The writer heard the songs and saw the drum carried
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1928 197

Fic. 172—Home of John P. Matchokemon, custodian of drum given to
the Menominee by the Chippewa at Dream Dance, Zoar, Wisconsin. (Photo-
graph by Miss Densmore. )

ts ie
rhs Puore

Fic. 173.—Menominee burying-ground. Menominee reservation, Wisconsin.
198 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

back into the house. Then followed the farewells to the Chippewa,
who were camped along a ridge at the right of the house. Tents were
taken down, horses were harnessed and equipment packed in wagons
or cars, and in a short time the guests had departed.

Beyond the ridge on which this house stands is a Menominee bury-
ing ground (fig. 173), which shows the preservation of old customs in
this interesting tribe.
SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

EXPLORATIONS AND FIELD-WORK OF THE
SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION
IN 1929

(PUBLICATION 3060)

CITY OF WASHINGTON
PUBLISHED BY THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION
1930

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

EXPLORATIONS AND FIELD-WORK OF THE
SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION
IN 1929

(PUBLICATION 3060)

CITY OF WASHINGTON
PUBLISHED BY THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION
1930
Tbe Lord Baltimore Press

BALTIMORE, MD., U. S. A.

WPUR ACI e)

Much of our present knowledge of the races of man, of animal and
plant life, and of the face of the earth itself, has come directly from the
field notes and collections of scientific men and explorers who have
gone out to the far corners of the earth with definite problems to solve.
It is a paradox of the search for knowledge that the more 1s learned,
the more unforeseen problems present themselves for study, so that the
pursuit of knowledge in the field and in the laboratory goes on with
an ever-widening front. The Smithsonian endeavors to carry its sector
in this advance through researches in the laboratories at the Institwu-
tion and through field expeditions in the sciences of geology, biology,
anthropology, and astrophysics.

The present pamphlet presents some of the researches upon which
the Smithsonian is working and some of the interesting aspects of
the expeditions which sought during 1929 to advance these researches.
The Institution is able from its income to pay the expenses of but a
very few expeditions each year; for the rest it is indebted to its
friends and to various other institutions whose cooperation in various
ways has made them possible.

Were sairewirs

Eeditor, Smithsonian Institution.
CONTENTS

PAGE
Apbot. ©.1Ga Observing, the nergy iofeSui-RayS.. sci... ocle ecco ¢ I
mMdrichy je NL. Collecting Pies sin’ Northern” Europe. .....0... 52. ces ese 113
Bartsch, Paul. Explorations for Mollusks in the West Indies............ 99
Bagster, Ik, Gy leeileerntuollereanre, Wotlk Wn IBIHO IS. osaq0ccecdeaGedcueoduEde 9
Collins, Henry B., Jr. Prehistoric Eskimo Culture of Alaska........... 147
Densmore, Frances. Tribal Customs of the Menominee Indians of Wisconsin 217
Foshag, W. F. Collecting Boron Minerals in Death Valley.............. 30
Friedman, Herbert. Explorations of the Rev. David C. Graham in Szechuan,

(Giri rite ees te a hao ete eae ee eR SR eMC teats ve deals, Seaman 85
Friedman, Herbert. Explorations of Dr. Hugh M. Smith in Siam.......... 03
Gidley, J. W. Hunting Fossils on the Old Oregon Trail................ 31
Gidley, J. W. Investigations of Early Man in Florida................. 37
Gilmore, Charles W. Fossil Hunting in New Mexico.................. 17
Harrington, J. P. Studying the Indians of New Mexico and California.... 195
Hewitt, J. N. B. The “League of Nations” of the Iroquois Indians in

(CRITE VGEY Wiis ea oi ein BES hat nice OER SIRO CL RR cee ne etna nce ta ar a ey Te 201
Hrdli¢ka, Ales. The Ancient and Modern Inhabitants of the Yukon....... 137
wiudd Neil MieDating’ Our Prehistoric’ Pueblo Riuims:. 42). ca)- ja «ee ete 167
Judde Neil) Mi. ‘Arizona Sacrifices) Her Prehistoric Canals... 255 ...% -i66- 177

Kellers, Henry C. Biological Collecting with the U. S. Naval Observatory
Eclipse”. Expedition to the, Philippine: Islands... -.7..- <2... 2... -= 77

Killip, Ellsworth P. Botanical Exploration in Amazonian Peru and Brazil. 119

Krieger, Herbert W. Prehistoric Inhabitants of the Dominican Republic.. 157

Leonard, E. C. Botanical Exploration of Northwestern Haiti............ 129
Wilzyarm, WW IMIG GA Wiig ine) JEbitoyneriel 7Aorosc 55 os conc soda cucabnesodsoaoouT 47
Michelson, Truman. Studies of the Algonquian Tribes of Iowa and

(Ope Telti corrals seme oo sec cs Sere cesar chet otc evtol ctenesievichil esite a aus wtot's at sucseus eereen hs 207
Boole Arthur je Explorations mm veattian|Cavesnc sy .ic. ocr. «ie. naereters oi 63
Resser, Charles E. Further Studies of Cambrian Geology in the Rocky

IM IGADTNN NTIS Sie hic, Geckel pen eis Gly ol OM HIRE LOMPOC en Oro eee irra CRSP eA 23
Roberts, Frank H. H., Jr. Two Ancient Indian Cultures in Eastern

IAT AZ ONL ear eM pen ieee a aL caesreT ctectes oats er ctiagy Ulsuis fe FontfexsGasisiecnat cree wie 187

Stirling, M. W. Prehistoric Mounds in the Vicinity of Tampa Bay, Florida. 183
Swanton, John R. Studies Among the Choctaw of Mississippi and the
(Cras ai (OVREINGTIE, céondsoonsnecd oo oddnuneboouceuEboooodDon ud sonc 213
OBSERVING Thins NER GY OF SUN=RAYS°

Bye GaGa bh @d.
Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, and Director of the
Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory

All terrestrial life depends on sun-rays. The chemical processes in
plants which are the fundamental basis of all foods ; the temperature
and rainfall which constitute essential life-conditions ; the supplies of
coal, oil and waterpower from which manufacturing, transportation,
and lighting receive their energy ; as well as the beauties of earth and
sky, are all the gifts of solar radiation. Such were the considera-
tions which led the third Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution,
Dr. Samuel P. Langley, to establish the Astrophysical Observatory
for the study of sun-rays, their intensity, their quality, the transpar-
ency of the atmosphere to them, their transformation into heat, and
the important effects in the atmosphere and on the earth’s surface to
which they give rise.

Beginning in 1890, in temporary quarters at Washington, the first
investigations were devoted to mapping the lines and bands of solar
and terrestrial atmospheric absorption of the invisible rays beyond
the red end of the colored spectrum. We then turned, in 1902, to the
measurement of what 1s called the “ solar constant of radiation,” which
is the measure of the intensity of solar energy available to warm
the earth. Some results of 1903 aroused the suspicion that this quan-
tity is not really constant. If so, its variations must affect the climates
and weather of the whole world. As the smoke and dust of Washing-
ton raised difficulties for this research, in 1905 the observing was trans-
ferred to Mount Wilson in California, where the work of making daily
observations of the “ solar constant” continued, but only in summer
and autumn months, until 1920. Many associated studies relating to
the transparency of the atmosphere, the brightness and color of the
sky by day and by night, the distribution of brightness over the sun’s
disk in all colors were also made on Mount Wilson. As evidences of
solar variation appeared, expeditions were made to Mount Whitney
in California and Bassour in Algeria, to test whether the result
depended on atmospheric conditions.

In 1918, in order to obtain daily measures of solar variation in
winter as well as summer, and where clouds and dust would be of

* All photographs in this article are reproduced by courtesy of the National
p g I 3
Geographic Society.
SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Fic. 1.—Looking over the Hottentot town of Berseba, the only town within
7 miles, towards Mt. Brukkaros, which rises 2,000 feet above the plain.

Fic. 2—The observer’s dwelling on Mt. Brukkaros. The mountain top is
practically devoid of vegetation, and water for all purposes is brought up
from a water-hole about a mile away.

Sa

SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1929 3

little hindrance, a station was established near Calama in the nitrate
desert of Chile. Here the work (now conducted nearby on Mount
Montezuma at 9,000 feet elevation) has been continued through nearly
8o per cent of the days ever since its establishment. This long Chilean
series of solar-radiation observations has no counterpart in the world
for length and continuity of observation. It confirms beyond question
the variation of the sun. As the accuracy of the work has grown, the
range of variation formerly supposed solar has indeed diminished,
but still periodic changes of I1 years, 2 years, 14 and 11 months are
clearly shown, and irregular, short-interval changes also appear.

- Mr. H. H. Clayton, formerly chief forecaster of Argentina, has
made a very extensive study of the changes in weather which may be
associated with these solar changes. He believes himself to have es-
tablished certain relations between weather and solar variation which
are capable of being used for forecasting purposes, and he now con-
ducts a private forecasting bureau.

In 1920 another station for all the year was occupied on Mount
Harqua Hala in Arizona. In 1925 this station was removed to Table
Mountain in California, where the sun has been observed on 80 per
cent of days until now. The National Geographic Society, appreciat-
ing the world-wide interest and importance of measuring the life-
supporting solar rays, financed in 1925 the selection, equipment, and
continued occupation of a new station on Mount Brukkaros in South
West Africa. This station is still cooperating with the Smithsonian
stations in North and South America for the study of the variability
of the sun.

It has become possible, as a result of the long study and experience
with this problem, to measure the sun’s radiation as it 1s outside Gur
atmosphere in free space with an accuracy better than half of one
per cent. Thus we are able to detect variations of one per cent and less
in the amount of solar energy available to warm the earth. The values
recently obtained range from 1.910 to 1.960 calories per square centi-
meter per minute.

During the past year the three stations have cooperated as before.
Messrs. Hoover and Greeley, having been three years in South
West Africa, have been relieved by Messrs. Sordahl and Froiland.
Mr, Butler has relieved Mr. Baughman in Chile, and Mr. Greeley is
returning to Table Mountain in California. By the generous assis-
tance of Mr. Roebling the continuance of the station in South West
Africa has been assured for the years 1930 and 1931, after which it
A SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Fic. 3.—Hauling supplies with a 16-mule team from the railway to the
observatory on Mt. Brukkaros, a distance of 60 miles.

Fic. 4.—Automobiling through the Great Fish River after a rain. Usually
the river bed is deep dry sand.
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, I929 5

is hoped that the two observing stations in North and South America
will suffice to continue a sufficient record of solar variation.

During the latter part of the year 1928 the apparatus at Mount
Montezuma got so much out of order as to prejudice the observations.
Aided by a generous grant from Mr. Roebling it was possible to send
Mr. L. B. Aldrich, who has had much experience in building and
adjusting delicate parts of the outfit, to put all in order. He remained
in Chile during part of January and February, 1929, rebuilt the deli-
cate galvanometer completely, and readjusted the entire outfit. The
last similar overhauling was made by Aldrich in 1925, and prior to
that by Dr. Abbot in 1921. When it is considered that the bolometric
outfit used, which includes the galvanometer just mentioned, is able
to observe changes of temperature in the spectrum as small as one
one-millionth of a degree, it may be thought remarkable that trouble
develops so infrequently.

The following excerpts from recent letters of the directors of the
three field stations present some of the interesting aspects of the year’s
work.

Mr. Sordahl writes in November, 1929, from the station on Mt.
Brukkaros, South West Africa:

We are now quite well located in our new surroundings and have some time
to look around and see what kind of neighbors we have. The Karoo was covered
with flowers in bloom as there had been a drenching rain in the preceding week,
the first in several years. The people certainly are very friendly and Mrs. Dryden
is almost like a mother to all of us.

The Hottentots accuse your party, in particular yourself, for the long drought
at the present time, but indications are that we will have a wet year, the old
settlers maintain.

Mr. Hoover will undoubtedly tell you what the present view is regarding the
origin of the mountain as a volcano. Recently, after being told of the fact some
time ago, I have found that there is handed down a legend, one might call it,
among the natives that they saw smoke issuing from the crater about two hun-
dred years ago, but the evidence is too questionable to have much weight among
the people here. One item which may be of interest in case it is not already
known, is the origin or the meaning of the name Brukkaros, which I have been
told means “the broken belt” as it appears from Berseba—a complete circle
except for the pass by our waterhole.

Leopards have been getting quite active about five miles southwest of us and
are killing cattle for the natives, and one boy was recently killed. We have two
30-30 rifles with which to welcome them, so they will probably avoid this place.
We are rather anticipating hunting season as the springbok are quite numerous
and should be interesting to get. We were down swimming in the Fish River
and found our region is not so destitute for recreation. Yesterday we bagged a
wild duck and look forward to a feast if Margaret is in the similar spirit. She
6 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

is quite occupied with coilecting as there is a large variety of specimens here.
At the present time we are constructing a tennis court on the plateau to the west
of the station, on spare time. It is only about a ten-minute walk from the house
over an almost level trail.

The sky has been very good thus far in November, although usually cloudy
in the afternoon which is not as good for long methods which can only be ob-
tained at that part of the day. We are taking all the long methods possible as
Mr. Hoover stated that only about 50 or 60 were possible during the year. The
new plates have a thinner colloidal film and are therefore much more sensitive
to light which I think is desirable, but they are also more frail and have to be
developed carefully. The apparatus has been working beautifully and has been
giving no trouble of any consequence. At the present time we are running monthly

Fic. 5—The leopard that stole the observatory chickens. Messrs. Hoover and
Greeley and their “ boys.”

comparisons on the instruments and checking every instrument to see that no
daily gradual deviation occurred when compared with its setting on the preced-
ing month.

The native boys working here are rather interesting and the subjects of con-
siderable observation. We have two working here and they are both married.
However as many as six women come to visit them at a time and think nothing
of walking nine miles across the desert from Berseba. They have only one small
stone hut about eight feet square and they all retire in their spacious mansion
regardless of number. None of their wives live up on the mountain, preferring
Berseba which is more social. One of the boys is very conscientious and honest
and on pay night this boy said, “ Boss, I want to make speak with you.’”’ When
I asked him what he wanted he made quite a speech about how long he had
worked here and his expenses and ended by asking for a raise in wages of one
shilling per month, which was such a colossal sum that I had to ask him several

SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, I929 7

times the amount to make certain I did not hear wrong. Very few natives can
speak English so they are more valuable when they have been here a while.
They were both very well satisfied when I promised to give them a shilling more
for each year they worked here which meant that only one of them did get a
raise.

It has been very cool here recently, the minimum night before last being 4.8°
Centigrade, while only about a week ago the maximum was 34.1° Centigrade.

Under date of December 5, 1929, Mr. Moore writes from the
California station :

Table Mountain has been breaking several records of late, and since today
finishes the fourth year of observing here, I’ll describe this a little. We have ob-
served on 86.0 per cent of the days during the past year, as against approximately
77 per cent the first year, 80 per cent the second, and 83 per cent the third. We
got every day in November this year, which month has always lost several days
in other years. It was cloudy on December 3, breaking our run of 58 successive
days, the second long run this summer, the other being 62 days. Prior to
December 3, we had observed on 115 out of 120 successive days. During the
summer we encountered more clouds than usual, but the fall has been better than
usual, with skies equal to the best Chile skies on a great many days.

This has been the driest year (from July 1) thus far in the history of the
Weather Bureau. I saw an article yesterday from San Francisco, which said
that their normal rainfall to this date is 4.21 inches, whereas this year they have
had 0.01 inch. This is quite in keeping with my prediction. It now remains to
be seen if this yet proves to be a winter of very heavy precipitation.

On October 23, Mr. Zodtner, director of the station on Mt.
Montezuma, Chile, writes:

At 5:20 a. m. Saturday morning, October 19, we experienced a very violent
earthquake. It did a great deal of damage. There was so much dirt and so many
rocks shaken down in the tunnel that I had some difficulty in getting the door
open. Rocks were broken from the side of the tunnel and dirt and small stones
were shaken down through the roof. A part of the pyranometer-galvanometer
pier was shaken down. The control magnet was thrown to the floor and the
needle system was turned around. The bolometer was moved about one-half a
foot and barely escaped being thrown from its pier. The diaphragm on the prism
face was shaken from the prism. In fact, the prism itself was dislocated but 1s
all right. The clock pendulum was hit with stones but is O. K. The pyrheliom-
eters were not touched in any way as I always keep them under a double cover
and on the floor which protected them from rocks and dirt falling from the roof.

The sight of all this was almost too discouraging. —To make matters worse,
it was cloudy and the weather has been poor since. Saturday we cleaned out the
tunnel. Checked the slit and found that it was all right. Next, set the prism at
minimum deviation and checked it with the transit for verticularity. After this,
we reset the diaphragm on the prism and got the magnet facing west. Then
tried to focus the bolometer but with poor success because of sky condition.
Sunday, we set up the pyranometer-galvanometer which is functioning very
well now. Then reset the pendulum after cleaning it. We then tried again
8 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

to get the bolometer back in focus. This seems to be causing the most trouble.
The concave mirror was not displaced during the quake. After this, we set the
control magnet and the sky had cleared so we tried observing just to see where
we stood. On developing up the plate the swing proved very short and the defini-
tion was no good. Monday morning, as soon as the sun rose, we tried to get
the bolometer back in focus, improving it somewhat.

We took three bolographs and got a fair looking value but I was afraid to call
it satisfactory. Tuesday morning, we again tried improving the bolometer posi-
tion but made matters worse. This morning I improved the bolometer position
materially and now feel that we have matters fairly well in hand.
RALBRONTOEOGIC WORK IN SEUROPE

ByRe See BASSEBR:
Head Curator of Geology, U. S. National Museum

The outstanding accession to the division of stratigraphic paleon-
tology in 1927 consisted of the Frank Springer collection of fossil
echinoderms with his very complete library upon the subject and
funds for the upkeep of both, which, by deed of gift, came to the
Institution soon after Doctor Springer’s death in September of that
year. Doctor Springer’s official connection with the Smithsonian
Institution began in 1911 when he transferred his collection and li-
brary from his private museum in Burlington, Iowa, to Washington,
and installed them in the National Museum where a room in the new
building had been assigned him. He spent the winter and spring
months of each year at Washington engaged in his scientific work,
and the remainder of the time at Santa Fe, New Mexico, in business
pursuits. Many of his scientific papers were published in the Proceed-
ings of the National Museum, while his well-known quarto mono-
graphs, the Crinoidea Flexibilia and American Silurian Crinoids were
issued by the Smithsonian Institution. His position on the scientific
staff of the Museum was recognized by the honorary title of Associate
in Paleontology

I had the pleasure of Doctor Springer’s friendship for more than
25 years and was closely associated with him in scientific work from
the summer of 1911, when he and I, assisted by Kenneth Chapman, his
artist and now director of the Santa Fe Museum, packed the delicate
specimens comprising his collection, which filled an entire express
car, and saw them started safely from Burlington, Iowa, on their way
to Washington.

The Springer collection, now comprising upward of 100,000 speci-
mens, several thousand of which are types described in his publications,
is undoubtedly the most complete assemblage of fossil echinoderms
in the world. Doctor Springer never missed an opportunity to pur-
chase good echinoderms, to employ collectors to obtain them, or to
otherwise increase the collection. As some of his early purchases were
unfortunately not labeled with the accuracy of detail as to geological
horizon now demanded, he was always interested in remedying this
defect by researches of all kinds. Business affairs prevented him
from personally doing much field-work, but on various occasions he

9
IO SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

7 Mpegs
Rees SOE .

rs

VY
Wa

8

a a

hns MRE
Verity

Fic. 6—Characteristic types of cystids and trilobites from the Barrande collection.

rane
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1929 II

sent me as well as others on trips to collect specimens and to study
the stratigraphy of various classical crinoid-bearing areas in North
America. Similar trips to European localities and museums were
planned, but his lamented death prevented their fulfillment during his
lifetime.

Notwithstanding the size of his collection, it necessarily lacked
many species, particularly those represented only by the types in
certain American and foreign museums. Realizing the value of casts
of these types for comparative purposes, Doctor Springer made plans
to secure them and obtained a considerable number from American
museums. He especially desired casts of the echinoderms in the
famous Barrande collection at Prague, and for this reason, in the
summer of 1929, I prepared to carry out his wishes by going person-
ally to Czechoslovakia to make the casts. I was, therefore, detailed
to undertake this special work and also to collect and study in France
and Germany in the interest of the collection.

Upon arriving at Cherbourg on August 3, 1929, various classical
localities in the Paris Basin were visited under the guidance of
Ferdinand Canu. A week was spent here in studying the Mesozoic
and Cenozoic rocks, in collecting, and particularly in making ar-
rangements with specialists in France for exchanges of echinoderms.
An important result was the stratigraphic information secured,
whereby many miscellaneous lots in the Springer Collection can now
be accurately labeled. Several days were then spent in the Rhine
Valley region where good exhibition specimens of Devonian crinoids
and starfishes were secured. Following this, a week was devoted to
similar work in central Germany, with particular attention to the
Mesozoic strata. Through a friend of our Museum, Dr. Johan
Weigelt, director of the Geological Institute of the University of
Halle, I was able to arrange an exchange of not only fossil echino-
derms but of other classes of animals and plants much needed in our
study series. At Berlin, Leipzig, and Dresden, museum methods were
studied and information secured for future work on other type
specimens.

Leaving Dresden for Prague, I took up the most important work
of the trip, namely, the casting of the Barrande types of fossil
echinoderms preserved in the National Museum of Bohemia. This
work was accomplished under most pleasant conditions due to the
cooperation and assistance of Dr. Jan Koliha, curator of the Bar-
randeum, the division of the museum housing the Paleozoic collection
assembled by the celebrated paleontologist Joachim Barrande. Dr.
Koliha not only gave me every possible help in my work but also

2
12

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Fic. 7—View from the National Museum of Bohemia looking down Vaclavské
Namesti (Wencelaus Place).

Itc. 8.—The National Museum of Bohemia, fronting on the Vaclavské
Namésti.

SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1929 12

proved a kind friend in a strange country and particularly with a
strange language. Due to his generous help, the work of casting the
echinoderms was completed earlier than anticipated and I was able to
spend some time in similar work upon the equally interesting trilobites
and other groups of fossils.

It may be of interest to review the methods used in preparing these
casts. In many instances the specimen is represented only by a mould
in the rock—that is, a cavity once occupied by the fossil which has
since been dissolved away. Barrande’s illustrations of such specimens
were made from guttapercha squeezes of the moulds, but, due to the
better quality of material today, the squeezes now prepared prove even
better copies than the figured types themselves. Whenever the actual
fossil is preserved, an impression, or, in other words, a mould is made
by first dusting the specimen with talcum powder and then pressing
plastocene or modeling clay upon it. To save time, these impressions,
carefully packed in pasteboard boxes to prevent distortion, were
shipped to Washington where plaster of paris casts are now being
made from them. This method of casting not only gives excellent
results in showing detail, but 1s the safest means to employ for delicate
specimens such as the trilobites in the Barrande collection. The
lower half of figure 6 shows the delicacy and interesting variety of
some of these trilobites while the upper portion illustrates some of
the curious cystid types which comprise a large part of the Barrande
echinoderm collection.

The Paleozoic rocks of Bohemia outcrop in a syncline or downfold
which, in the vicinity of Prague, is cut through by the Moldau River,
thus affording numerous natural exposures. These rocks contain an
abundance of fossils which have long attracted attention. The first
geological work of note in the region, however, was accomplished by
Joachim Barrande who made Bohemia classic ground for the study of
paleontology. Born in France in 1799 and educated in the Ecole
Polytechnique at Paris as an engineer, Barrande’s first appointment
was that of tutor to the grandson of Charles X, the Duc de Bordeaux,
who was afterwards known as Comte de Chambord. When the king
abdicated in 1830, Barrande accompanied the royal family to England,
thence to Scotland, and finally to Bohemia, where at Prague he took
up engineering work. In the course of this pursuit, his attention was
called to the Paleozoic fossils of the region, and with the publication
of Murchison’s Silurian System in 1839, he was led to make a study
of the supposed equivalent strata in Bohemia. He entered into this
work on such a large scale, engaging many workmen to open up quar-
ries and collect fossils, that he finally acquired an unrivaled collection
T4 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Fic. 9.—Side view of National Museum of Bohemia, with the head of
Wencelaus Place to the left and a characteristic zmrzlina (ice cream) cart
in the middle.

Fic. 10.— Exhibition case in the Barrande division of the National Museum of
Bohemia, showing the many quarto volumes and mementoes of Barrande.
WwW

SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1929

Abou JOATY

‘SUIBU SI YPM payIBU YOO DIsse]D Spurlieg ‘onseid
NePOPY eY} Suoye syoo. uelIMyIS peppoy AyYysry Jo YyO & ‘uasjay wnoapuesiieg ey[—I1 “oy

16 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

of trilobites, brachiopods, and other invertebrates, totaling about
3,500 species—all from rocks which he identified as Silurian but
which have since been shown to include strata of lower and higher
periods. The first volume of his great series of publications, the
Systeme Silurien du Centre de la Boheme, dealing with the trilobites,
appeared in 1852, and from then on he continued publishing until in
1881, 21 quarto volumes of text and plates had been issued.

Barrande’s collection is housed in the Narodni Museum, the
large, handsome building at the top of the Vaclavské Namesti (or
Wencelaus Place) which also contains the other natural history and
historical collections of Bohemia. (See figs. 8 and 9.) The special
division of the museum devoted to Barrande’s collection, the Bar-
randeum, has been noted, but he is held in such high esteem at Prague
that, to further commemorate him, an extensive section of the Pale-
ozoic rocks along the Moldau River has been set aside to be available
to future students. The very interesting portion of this section show-
ing the greatly folded Silurian strata is known as the Barrandeum
Felsen, and, as shown in figure 11, has Barrande’s name printed upon
it in large letters, visible to all travelers along the river, highways, and
railroads passing along the base of the cliff, which faces one of the
main traveled routes in Czechoslovakia.

One of the most interesting exhibits in the Barrandeum is shown
in figure 10. At the top of a case devoted to personal mementoes of
Barrande may be seen views of his old workshop in Prague, and one
of the quarries he had opened for collecting fossils. The shelf below
contains the great series of quarto volumes forming the Systeme
Silurien du Centre de la Boheme, while in the lower part of the case
are exhibited plates and text of two volumes together with his portrait,
geological hammer, collecting bag, and other mementoes.

Leaving the charming city of Prague and its interesting people
with much regret at the completion of my work, I spent a few days
in Bavaria, particularly at the Alte Akademie at Munich, and in
France before sailing for New York on September 21. In all my
experience, this was my most successful field trip in making new
friends, in securing new information, and in adding study material to
the National collections.

FOSSIL HUNTING IN NEW MEXICO

By CHARLES W. GILMORE,
Curator of Vertebrate Paleontology, U. S. National Museum

The San Juan Basin in the northwestern corner of New Mexico
contains an extensive area of broken country called “‘ bad lands” in
which occur fossil remains of turtles, dinosaurs, and other extinct
animals. It was in 1902 that the first fossil remains were reported
from this region, and ever since, from time to time, the National
Museum has been the recipient of small collections made by various
members of the United States Geological Survey in the course of
their explorations of the area. Especially noteworthy is a collection
made by Dr. John B. Reeside, Jr., in 1916, consisting of no less than
50 turtles together with several fragmentary dinosaurian specimens.
The excellent preservation and great variety of many of these fossils
indicated a field of much promise for future paleontological explora-
tion. Furthermore, the opportunity of establishing adequate faunas
that would assist in the more exact correlation of these Upper
Cretaceous formations with adjacent as well as more distant areas,
made it a project having both paleontological and geological interest.
Thus it was that the National Musuem had long considered such an
exploration.

Plans for this field-work were finally approved, and in May of the
present year I left Washington for Kimbetoh, New Mexico. At
Thoreau, the end of my railroad journey, I was joined by Mr. Norman
H. Boss of the paleontological staff, who had been working for some
weeks in southern New Mexico, and we proceeded by automobile to
Kimbetoh, some 60 miles distant. On the way out we stopped at
Crown Point where I called upon Mr. S. F. Stacher, superintendent
of the Navajo Indian Reservation, who assured us of every assis-
tance at his command whenever our work took us onto the Reservation.
Our next stop was at the famous old ruin Pueblo Bonito, where we
were delayed for two days because of the impassable condition, due to
recent rains, of Escavada Wash, which lay between us and our desti-
nation. This was my introduction to a ‘“‘ wash,” of which there are
many in this country and with which we were later to become better
acquainted. For those unacquainted with the term I may explain
that a “ wash ” is nothing more than a wide shallow stream bed filled
with sand, which in dry weather has no particular terrors after one

17
18 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

becomes accustomed to dust storms; but when this sandy bed is
saturated with water it is a treacherous trap, and woe betide the un-
fortunate animal or auto that becomes bogged in these quicksands.
Escavada Wash was not dry when we crossed, but with an experienced
driver and a flying start it was navigated and we soon reached
Kimbetoh. Here, following earlier arrangements, Messrs, George F.
and Charles W. Sternberg had established camp some days prior to
our arrival. The former had been engaged as field assistant and the
latter as cook for the party.

Fic. 12.—Camp at Kimbetoh, New Mexico. (Photograph by G. F. Sternberg.)

Kimbetoh lies well to the southern boundary of the area to be ex-
plored and it was planned to begin here and work north and west so
as to close the season at Farmington on the northern border of the
field. With slight modifications, this program was carried through.

The augmented party continued a systematic search of the surround-
ing bad lands but with rather indifferent success. A complete speci-
men of the large turtle Neurankylus, and a few dinosaur bones were
all that was found worthy of collecting in the two weeks spent at this
camp. Irom here we moved to Ojo Alamo, 16 miles to the north. This
was formerly a well known trading post, but the fallen walls of the
store and outbuildings are all that remain. A fine spring, however,
makes this a congregating point for the Navajo Indians who bring
their stock here for water. It is from this place that the geological
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1929 19

Fic. 13.—Articulated tail of hadrosaurian dinosaur as it was uncovered in
the field. (Photograph by G. F. Sternberg.)
20 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

formation Ojo Alamo received its name. Little success was met with
here, and after going over all the exposures within easy access of the
camp without finding anything of importance, we moved to Hunter’s
store (now known as the Bisti Trading Company) situated at the edge
of the Navajo Indian Reservation. Camp was pitched in the midst of
an extensive area of bad lands made up of the Fruitland, Kirtland,
McDermott, and Ojo Alamo formations. A few days of prospecting
combined with the previous experience soon convinced us that the best
opportunity for obtaining desirable material was offered by the Kirt-
land formation, to which, from this time on, our work was largely
confined. An articulated tail of a large hadrosaurian dinosaur ; por-
tions of the skull of a horned dinosaur of the Chasmosaurus type, new
to the fauna and probably a new species; articulated limb and foot
bones of a small ceratopsian reptile ; and no less than 20 turtles, many
of them complete shells and some of large size, are a few of the out-
standing acquisitions. The turtles pertain to the genera Baena, Adocus,
Neurankylus, Plastomenus, Aspideretes, and Amyda. Many of these
were found in places inaccessible by either auto or wagon and had to
be packed out on our backs or lashed to the saddle of an Indian pony.
At times the extreme heat and blinding sandstorms made the work
of collecting very arduous.

On June 25, having covered all available collecting ground, camp
was again moved some 10 miles north to Brimhall’s Wash. From this
time on, daily moves were made northward until the close of opera-
tions, a few turtles and fragmentary dinosaur specimens resulting.
Much to our disappointment, the available collecting ground became
progressively more and more restricted as we moved toward Farm-
ington. Much of the surface was covered by windblown sand and it
was only here and there that small patches offered opportunity for
collecting. On account of these conditions, I decided to suspend opera-
tions some two weeks earlier than had been planned. The next few
days were spent in packing the material collected which filled ten
large boxes having a combined weight of 3,200 pounds.

Although disappointed by our failure to find more articulated speci-
mens, we feel that the material acquired will contribute much of
scientific interest. Several of the specimens apparently represent un-
described species and hence the known faunal lists of these several
Upper Cretaceous formations will be considerably augmented. The
turtles are exceptionally perfect specimens, and, with those already
in the collections, assure to the Museum the most extensive series of
Upper Cretaceous turtles in any institution in North America.

As a collecting field for fossil vertebrates, the San Juan Basin
area, taken as a whole, is disappointing. Extensive areas of well
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1929 Zl

Fic. 14.—Ojo Alamo Spring, New Mexico. The spring is at the base of the
rock to the right of the tree. (Photograph by G. F. Sternberg.)

Fic. 15.—Navajo Indian camp near Hunter’s store, at the edge of the
Navajo Reservation, New Mexico. The woman on the extreme right is a
skilled weaver of rugs. (Photograph by G. F. Sternberg.)
is)
LS)

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

dissected bad lands with surfaces practically free from vegetation and
débris, an abundance of “ float’ or surface indications of fossils, are
ideal conditions that give every promise of yielding rich returns. It
was found, however, that in the greater number of instances, the
clues followed led only to a single or at most two or three bones of
a skeleton. It was readily apparent that individual skeletons had been
widely scattered before interment, and that isolated or partially
articulated specimens are rarities.

In conclusion, I wish to express my appreciation of the very satis-
factory assistance rendered by all three of my helpers in the field.
There was harmony and cooperation at all times and it was a pleasure
to be associated with them.

BOER sol DiS Or CAMBRIAN GEOLOGY
IN” Tae ROCKY MOUNTAINS

By CHARLES E. RESSER,
Curator, Division of Stratigraphic Paleontology, U. S. National Museum

The record of life in the Cambrian rocks of the Rocky Mountains,
dating from almost the very beginnings of biological history, 1s
slowly being revealed through the researches of geologists, and to the
fact that the record goes back so far must be attributed the wide-
spread interest in each new item uncovered. I was afforded the
privilege during the field season of 1929 of continuing my studies of
these ancient rocks and their contained fossils. My primary interest
and effort, however, was directed not so much towards the discovery
of new things but towards gathering data that will serve in systema-
tizing our existing knowledge, for although much information and
many fossils have been accumulated, these are not yet sufficiently
digested to be generally available in a usable system.

As in past seasons, I used an auto truck and outfit that had been
stored at the central location of Salt Lake City. Leaving there late
in June, my assistant and | moved northward toward our chosen
field in Montana. A pleasant feature of this year’s work was that we
were twice accompanied by Luciano Jacques de Moraes, a geologist
of the Brazilian Geological Survey, who was visiting this country.
He met us at Salt Lake City, and as several of our interests coincided,
particularly the study of algal deposits, he accompanied us as far as
the Yellowstone National Park. In the Park and along the route to
it, we frequently stopped to study such deposits, obtaining much inter-
esting information and some instructive specimens but also raising a
new set of problems. For instance, last spring the rotogravure pic-
torial section of several eastern Sunday newspapers printed pictures
of a large undercut boulder in the Gibbon River, several miles below
the Norris Geyser Basin in the Park. We reexamined this boulder
and found that its peculiar pedestal structure is due to the fact that its
base is tightly cemented to the river bed by algal deposits, which pre-
vents its turning over and thereby being rounded in the usual manner.
But the unsolved problem raised is why algae should make a perfect
concrete pavement for the river over the rapids at this point while
both above and below no such lime deposition is taking place.

23
24 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Fic. 16.—Dr. Moraes assisting with breakfast, early morning camp on
Gray’s River, Wyoming. The clouds of mosquitoes were almost dense enough
to photograph. (Photograph by Resser.)

Fie. 17.—Outcrop of algal limestone of horizontal tubular form on Little
Birch Creek, west of White Sulphur Springs, Belt Mountains, Montana.
(Photograph by Resser.)
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1929 25

After Dr. Moraes left us early in July, we continued northward to
the Bridger Range in Montana. Here some of the earliest work in
the West was done and consequently the type localities of several
Cambrian formations whose age has recently been brought into ques-
tion occur here. As so often happens, restudy showed the strati-
graphic history at this place to be much more complicated than previ-
ously thought. The Bridger Range has an interesting and peculiar
structure for the Rockies in that the northern block is constituted of
strata in normal order. Next south we find what may be called the
Flathead Pass block which is completely overturned to the east
while the southern block on the other hand again has the strata in
normal superposition, Strange to relate the sequence of beds in the
three adjacent blocks varies, which injects the difficult problems pre-
viously mentioned.

Camping on the west side of the Bridger Range is always pleasant
as it affords a view across the fertile Gallatin Valley, probably the
most productive portion of the State. Numerous towns and villages
dot the floor of the depression through which flow the Gallatin Rivers
on their way west to help form the Missouri at the western outlet of
the Valley, beyond Logan. Terraces, composed of the exceedingly
fertile Bozeman Lake beds whose soil is often over 500 feet deep,
yield enormous quantities of dry-farming wheat of such high quality
as to be almost world famous. The other topographic feature char-
acterizing the Valley is the irrigated alluvial plains and meadows, all
below the benches rimming the inner valleys. Here the towns are
located, most of which are flourishing. Bozeman at the eastern and
more extensively irrigated section of the Valley is an attractive city,
containing a portion of the State University. On the bench southwest
of Bozeman, where streams from the Madison Range furnish water
for irrigation, a Dutch settlement has grown up, to which the inhabi-
tants have given the aspect of a real Holland landscape. |ogan, at
the western end of the Valley, constituted our base for the summer’s
work because of its situation at the junction of the Butte and Helena
lines of the Northern Pacific Railway, thus allowing mail to go directly
to most other sections of the State. Since 1925, when a very heavy
earthquake with its focal point near Lombard on the Missouri, caused
considerable destruction of brick structures, Logan and the surround-
ing vicinity have experienced almost weekly shocks.

After ten days work in the Bridger Range we moved westward
and northward across the Continental Divide into the Blackfoot
country where the pre-Cambrian rocks were examined and an effort
26 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Fic. 18—Cliffs of pre-Cambrian limestone along Little Birch Creek, Belt
Range, Montana. (Photograph by Resser. )

+)

te) : i; “Bee: we ar ‘es : i ha oie ia % ft oie
<a Agh Ska OR PR ZONE REE, CEA. 2 Bee SARL

vee

Fic. 19.—Cliffs of pre-Cambrian limestone, and camp along Little Birch
Creek, Belt Range, on the Ringling ranch, west of White Sulphur Springs,
Montana. In 1914 Dr. Walcott shipped in many tons of algal limestone
collected in these cliffs. (Photograph by Resser.)
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1929 Zig;

was made to find Cambrian sections not previously noted. Here giant
pines and tamaracks break the monotony of the typical Rocky Moun-
tain forest. Leaving this region we visited various ranges in south-
western Montana, all of which are composed of the same extensive
series of pre-Cambrian sediments but lack younger beds. It is only in
the ranges that the rocks are free from drift cover, which explains the
method pursued, namely, crossing as many ranges and divides as pos-
sible. In some cases we used roads that are seldom traveled, least of
all by automobile, but as a reward we usually found the streams full
of trout. After going as far southwest as Salmon, Idaho, we turned
eastward, crossing several ranges that still contained only the pre-
Cambrian strata, finally reaching a Cambrian section on Camp Creek
near Melrose, Montana. Since the rivers have rather easy grades for
the most part and since snow banks at some of the higher levels per-
sist until August, the mosquitoes hold on here almost all summer. We
attempted to camp one evening at the end of July near Wisdom, but
as soon as the car stopped we were at once enveloped in a cloud of
mosquitoes, consequently we drove on up to Big Hole Pass, camping
within sound of running water, although it was too dark to see the
stream, This proved to be a fortunate location as eight trout were
secured for breakfast within 15 minutes next morning while the
fishing line froze stiff. Subsequently other sections in the Jefferson
Range were studied and some of them measured.

We then turned to Logan and again met Dr. Moraes. Accompanied
by him we made a loop to the northward, visiting particularly the Belt
Mountains where Dr. C. D. Walcott had obtained interesting algal
forms more than 15 years ago. Geologists have at times questioned
the organic origin of these structures, and Dr. Moraes, who is attempt-
ing to solve certain problems in Brazil, wished to sce these deposits
in the field and thereby learn the criteria which led those of us who had
previously studied them to believe in their organic origin.

Along the south end of the Belts in the canyon of Deep Creek cer-
tain shale beds of the Belt series have yielded fragmentary organic
remains that have been interpreted as animal. These outcrops were
located and some specimens secured. If these fossils could be proven
to be animal remains they would constitute the oldest such examples
known. But our studies have thrown much doubt on the animal
nature of the fossils, indicating rather that they were algae akin in ap-
pearance at least to the flat sea-weeds of today. This interpretation is
still further strengthened by the discovery of quite similar forms in
the overlying Cambrian beds concerning whose algal nature there can
be no doubt.
28 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

3. ‘ 4s

Fic. 20.—View on home ranch of Gilbert Cattle Company, near Alden,
Montana. A nine-year old wild horse recently captured but not yet ridden.
(Photograph by Resser.)

So en
phar a ea

Fic. 21.—Another view on home ranch of Gilbert Cattle Company. Shetland
pony and four of her five mule offspring. All the mules, which are now full
grown, are pintos, a very rare thing. All will allow children to play about and
oan a them, but will buck any cowboy off, if possible. (Photograph by

esser.
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1929 29

as
oe ae es * Or os
“ £ Ss 8 Wee un
Boe kis Wage ** ate
Fic. 22,—Cambrian quartzites resting on the planed surface of deeply weath-
ered old gneisses. This weathering happened before the Cambrian beds were
deposited. Camp Creek, east of Melrose, Montana. (Photograph by Resser. )

Fic. 23.—Afternoon shadows creeping across the magnificent glaciated Teton
Canyon, Wyoming. (Photograph by Resser. )
30 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Ikach summer one notes an improvement in living conditions in
Montana. About 20 years ago a great number of people moved into
the State and took up homesteads in almost all possible situations.
Houses were built, often at places to which water for domestic pur-
poses had to be hauled considerable distances. The ancient soil was
ploughed up and large quantities of wheat were produced by crude
dry-farming methods. After a few seasons, the rainfall returned to
uormal and below, thus compensating for the moist years. At once
these people began to feel want and soon were actually facing starva-
tion. Hundreds of the houses were abandoned, the land either revert-
ing to its wild state or being farmed by individuals or corporations
having considerable capital. About ten years ago the modern era of
diversification began. Since then people have learned not to depend
solely on one uncertain crop but to keep a few animals and to plant
every crop the climate and soil will permit. As a consequence today
the people are making a comfortable living, the banks have large sur-
pluses, and the population 1s increasing.

The latter part of the season was spent ina return trip to the west-
ern side of the Teton Mountains in Wyoming, extending the studies
of the previous season. Several trips on horseback were made high up
on the range to points just within the boundary of the new Teton Na-
tional Park. At no other place in the world so far as I know are the
different effects of granitic and sedimentary rocks on the development
of topographic forms so clearly illustrated as along the crest of this
range. A person standing on the small knob called Table Rock 11,000
feet above sea level and looking directly east will see deep canyons
from which rises the spire of the Grand Teton to an altitude of over
13,000 feet, with precipitous walls of granitic rock whose height is
measured in thousands of feet; if he turns either to right or left he
will see cliffs of a different kind, the castellated masses and the gentler
topography produced by the nearly horizontal Cambrian and younger
shales and limestones resting on the gneiss. It struck me as I stood at
this point that it is a great pity that the new national park does not
include any of the sedimentary series of beds, but is confined to the
jagged, granitic rocks. The full grandeur of the magnificent Tetons
can be seen only from this point, which is reached by trail from the
west side.

During most of the summer, particularly after July 10, the smoke
from the numerous forest fires rendered photography difficult and at
times impossible. Once or twice our camp was moved a little earlier

than had been planned in order to escape the possible sweep of the
fires.
HUNTING FOSSILS ON THE OLD OREGON TRAIL

By J. W. GIDLEY,
Assistant Curator of Mammalian Fossils, U. S. National Museum

Many a thrilling tale of adventure and hardship has been told by the
pioneers who traveled the Old Orgeon trail to the northwest in the
early settlement of what was at that time wild, savage-infested coun-
try. Even today, especially along the Snake River Valley in Idaho,
there remain abundant traces not only of the old trail itself but some
of the tragedies that took place along its path as it wound its way
through the desert, along the river, and over the rough lava fields.
Those early pioneers traveling through Snake River Valley found
the country through which they passed infested by Indians and teem-
ing with big game in great variety. There were bison, the distine-
tively American antelope, the “ pronghorn,” elk, deer, bears, and
wolves in great numbers. Today extensive irrigation projects have
converted the fertile soil over great areas of the Snake River Valley
into prosperous farming communities dotted here and there with
towns and villages; and both the wild tribes of Indians and the big
game animals, giving way to the advance of civilization, have
vanished forever from this region. Today the big-game ranges, where
not under cultivation, are entirely turned over to grazing lands for
domestic animals, the bison, deer, and antelope having been replaced
by horses, cattle and sheep.

Great as these changes have been, far greater took place in the
ages of the past, long before the dawn of civilization. And, like
the early pioneers of the Old Oregon trail, the inhabitants of that day
have left traces which, intelligently studied, give us some interesting
glimpses into their life history. These signs and evidences of a
different past are presented to us in the form of fossil remains left in
the slowly accumulated sedimentary deposits of lakes and stream
channels which nature has formed in past times, and which in a more
recent day have been uncovered in part through the cutting down of
stream channels and the heavy rains of past centuries.

Usually these evidences of a different past are not intelligible or
even recognized as such by the layman. It is only when such huge
bones as those of the mammoth or mastodon are discovered or where
bones are found protruding from rocks or in other unusual places
that interest is developed in these evidences of a former animal life
different from that of the present.

3 31
32 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

In the fall of 1928, Dr. H. T. Stearns, of the United States Geologi-
cal Survey, sent to the National Museum for determination a small
collection of fossil bones obtained at various localities in the Snake
River Valley, and reported some prospects observed in his ground-
water survey work of the general region. These specimens and re-
ports gave such promise of good results that an expedition, which was
placed in my charge, was organized by the Smithsonian Institution,
for the following spring. Accordingly, leaving Washington on June
24, 1929, I proceeded to Idaho Falls, Idaho, where I had previously
arranged to meet Doctor Stearns. The following few days were spent
in reconnaissance trips by automobile which covered the major part of

Fic. 24.—Smithsonian Expedition camp at the edge of the desert near the
Old Oregon Trail, Snake River, Idaho. Boxes of fossils in foreground
ready for shipment.

the valley and included such localities as McCammon, American
Falls, Twin Falls, and on westward to Bliss, a small town about
180 miles farther down the valley than Idaho Falls. Several pros-
pects were thus examined and later more thoroughly explored. For
this work a field party was organized in which I had for assistant
Mr. C. P. Singleton, the discoverer of the important Pleistocene
fossil locality, at Melbourne, Florida. The rest of the party in-
cluded, as occasion required their services, Mr. Elmer Cook and
Mr. F. V. Conklin, the men who first reported one of the good locali-
ties to Doctor Stearns, and Mr. Frank Garnier, all resident in the
region of our work.

The purpose of this expedition was primarily to obtain good col-
lections of fossil bones from the more important localities with a view
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1929 33

to determining the age of the various sedimentary deposits of the
Snake River Valley and to secure material for study and exhibition
purposes in the National Museum. Guided by our preliminary survey
ef the whole territory, certain more favored localities were chosen
for operation, and the work was carried on with good success through
two months, nearly 3 tons of fossils resulting from the expedition.
From a geologic standpoint one of the important developments of
the expedition was the rather conclusive demonstration that most of
the heavy gravel and sand deposits of the valley were accumulated
during the last geologic epoch known as the Pleistocene, or “ Ice
Age.” The fauna represented by the various fossil bones collected
proved interesting and important. The pioneers of the Old Oregon

Fic. 25.—Typical view of Snake River Valley, Idaho.

trail, as has already been remarked, saw much big game on their
journeys through this desert country, but the big game of our
pioneer days was quite tame hunting as compared with what it would
have been in that much earlier time of some 500,000 years ago. There
were bison in that day also, but what bison! One kind common in that
distant Pleistocene time was much like the present day type, both in
size and general appearance; but a contemporary form, apparently
quite as numerous, very much overtopped him in both size and devel-
opment of horns. This bison was provided with great horns, each
bony core of which was about two feet long and more than 6 inches
in diameter at the base. In life these horns must have had a spread
of not less than seven feet. But even this giant bison was not undis-
puted king of the range, for sharing it with him were great musk-ox-
34 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

like animals, exceeding in size by thrice his bulk the living musk-ox of
the north country. Also vast herds of mammoths and mastodons, the
former exceeding in size his living near relatives, the elephants of
India and Africa, roamed at will over the country. Then there were
ground sloths, large heavy creatures related to the living tree-sloths
ef South America, camels rivaling their Old World living relatives
and even exceeding them in length of limb and neck. Great bears, and
horses belonging probably to two distinct species, the larger about
equaling in size a large cow pony, were abundant. Among the smaller
animals are represented wolves, coyotes, beavers, pocket gophers, and
hares.

ties
Fe Reels

Fic. 26.—Fossil bones uncovered but still in situ in gravel pit near American
Falls, Idaho. In foreground is seen the radio-ulna of the large musk-ox-like
animal. In the background, slightly to left, is a metapodial or cannon bone
of a camel.

The fossil bones which give us this glimpse of the past were col-
lected from several localities. Most of them were not found in view
on the surface of the ground, but were obtained by systematic and
careful excavating. Usually on this expedition gravel pits in which
former excavation had revealed the presence of fossil bones were
chosen for our operations. Here many cubic yards of the material
were carefully worked over, and as bone after bone was thus brought
to light they were taken out by the usual methods known to fossil
hunters and carefully wrapped, labelled, and packed for shipment.

After completing the season’s work in the Snake River Valley my
detail took me to Bend, Oregon, where fossil bones had been reported
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1929 35

in one of the numerous lava caves of the region. My route was by
rail down the Columbia River Valley to Sherman, Oregon, and thence
southward up the Dessutes River over a branch of the Oregon Short-
line Railway. This railway winds its sinuous way up through the
gorgeously carved canyon of the Dessutes River, revealing at every
turn new vistas of beauty and grandeur, for this canyon and its tribu-
taries have been carved deeply by nature’s agencies through enor-
mously thick and widely extended beds of consolidated lavas, leaving
many precipitous canyon walls and here and there rugged isolated
buttes of solid lava rock, Arriving at Bend we were welcomed by
Mr. W. J. Perry, a government forester who had first reported the
fossil bones. The following day all hands with Mr. Perry conducting
the party, proceeded to the exploration of the cave. These caves are
peculiar and not at all like the ordinary caves of limestone regions.
Instead of holes or excavations consisting of irregular chambers and
intersecting passages eaten out by the action of acid-bearing waters
which have operated to form the great caverns of limestone regions,
we find here extended underground tunnels or tubes of relatively
uniform size which were formed by melted lava streams continuing
to flow for long distances after the main mass of the lava outpourings,
which once covered thousands of square miles of that general region,
had become partially consolidated. The present day entrances to
these tunnels, when such can be found, are evidently spots where the
supports of the tunnel vaults were not perfectly arched and these
weaker places have given way to earth tremors or other extra strain.
Where these weaker spots were near the surface they have caved in,
forming the openings. It was through such an opening we entered
the “ fossil bone cave”? as it has been named by Mr. Perry and is
locally known. Equipped with miners’ lanterns we followed back
along the more or less even floor of the cave for several hundred feet,
encountering here and there great rugged piles of lava rock broken
down from the roof of the old passage left by the lava stream. Over
these we were obliged to scramble to reach again the more even floor
ef the continuing passage way. When we had reached one of these
piles of fallen rock about 3,000 feet from the spot where we had
entered and where the old lava channel forked to form two passage
ways, Mr. Perry announced we were near to the spot where he had
first discovered the fossil bones. A little search on our part soon re-
vealed more of them and in a few hours we had made a small collec-
tion by which we could judge of their nature and form some intelli-
gent idea of their history.
36 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

How did these bones get into such a place, back in this black dark-
ness more than a half mile from the nearest known entrance? And
to what age did they belong? These are questions at first not easy to
answer. Mr. Perry’s first impressions had been that they were bones
of animals that, having fallen into or taken refuge in the opening,
had been washed by former stream currents or dragged by other
animals back into the far recesses of the cave. But later investi-
gation revealed the fact that most of the larger bones were broken
and that all were more or less scattered about and mixed with the
broken debris of the fallen roof. This would not have been the case

Fic. 27.—Opening to lava cave about 15 miles south-southwest of Bend,
Oregon.

had the carcasses been transported there before maceration of the
fleshy parts had taken place. If, however, it is assumed that the bones
of animals living in the country over these caverns should from time
to time have fallen into cracks and crevices of the lava covering, they
might readily work their way downward by shifting and slight earth
movements until, aided by this cave-in, some of them found a more
permanent resting place at the bottom of the cavern among the fallen
débris of the roof. Careful search with our lanterns revealed that
there were such crevices in the irregular broken vault of this portion
of the cavern. The animals represented in the small collection which
included an extinct species of horse and a large hyena-like dog,
indicated that they were not recent forms but belonged to the last
geologic period just preceding our own time, the Pleistocene.
INVESTIGATIONS OF EARLY MAN IN FLORIDA

By J. W. GIDLEY
Assistant Curator of Mammalian Fossils, U. S. National Museum

In 1916, Dr. E. H. Sellards, then State Geologist of Florida, re-
ported the discovery at Vero of human remains associated with those
of an extinct fauna. Because the specimens obtained were fragmen-
tary, relatively near the present surface of the ground, and especially
because the character and origin of the deposits in which they were
found was little understood, much controversy arose at the time both
as to the age of the deposits and the question of whether or not the
association surely indicated contemporaneity of man with the animals
represented by the fossil bones with which they were found. A
series of explorations and investigations was begun in 1925 by a
joint field expedition of the Smithsonian Institution and Amherst
College, and has since been continued independently by the Smith-
sonian as funds have permitted. The results of these systematic
investigations, which were placed in my charge, have been published
from time to time.’

This work has fairly well established the contention that man
reached Florida at an early date and lived there with an assemblage
of wild animals different from that of our own time, but there is still
some question as to what phase of the Pleistocene they belong. Begin-
ning in March, 1929, I spent about two months at Melbourne in inves-
tigation by much the same methods as those adopted the previous
season, with equally gratifying results. Not only was additional
material secured which will aid in the determination of the age
of the “ No. 2” beds, but an added piece of evidence of the con-
temporaneity of man was secured. This evidence consists of a stone
artifact of unique design, known as a turtle-back scraper found in situ
about the middle of the “ No. 2” bed. It lay in the undisturbed semi-
consolidated sand of the fossil bone-bearing layer and near it and
about at the same level were found bones of several extinct species
of animals including elephant, mastodon, horse, camel, tapir, and a
large bear. An added proof of the antiquity of this stone implement
is seen in the patina it has acquired, which is of a character that indi-
cates great age.

* See especially Gidley and Loomis, Fossil Man in Florida, Amer. Journ. Sci.,
Vol. 12, pp. 254-264, 1926; Gidley, Further Study of the Problem of Early Man
in Florida, Expl. and Field-Work Smithsonian Inst. in 1928, pp. 13-20, 5 figures,
1929; and Gidley, Ancient Man in Florida: Further Investigation, Bull. Geol.
Soc. Amer., Vol. 40, pp. 491-502, 2 pls., 1920.

37
Fic. 28.—Beg

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

onal
oO
pet)
77)
ot

extension of East Pit, Golf Links, near Melbourne,
Florida.

inning o

Fic. 29.—East Pit, showing bones of a partial skeleton of a small mastodon
still in place in No. 2 bed.
COLLECTING BORON MINERALS IN
DP Aare VATE REY

By W. F. FOSHAG,
Curator of Mineralogy and Petrology, U. S. National Museum

Borax, before its discovery in California and Nevada, was a rare
commodity, much of it being brought to Europe from the high
Himalayas of Thibet. The Western United States borax districts
have produced in great quantities, the industry being famed for the
twenty mule teams employed to haul the raw material from the floor of
Death Valley, over the steep Panamint Mountains and across the
inhospitable desert to Mohave, 165 miles away. Recent discoveries
having brought about the abandonment of the old mines for richer
and more accessible fields, it was deemed desirable to study these old
deposits and collect their minerals while the workings are still open.
The type of boron deposit found in this region is unique in its
occurrence. The chief ore mineral is colemanite, a borate of lime,
which is not known from any other locality in the world. Other min-
eral species, too, are peculiar to this arid region.

Early in March, 1929, in company with Mr. F. A. Gonyer, I left
Barstow, California, by motor for Death Valley. This desolate
region, once so rarely visited by any one but hardy prospectors, 1s
now readily accessible. Our route lay through desert valleys, barren
except for sagebrush and joshua trees, and over mountains of granite
and lava to Cave Springs. From here we could look into the south
end of Death Valley as it lay almost at our feet. Our first camp was
at Saratoga Springs, a favorite watering place for the desert pros-
pector, and here we found four of these interesting characters domi-
ciled in the ruins of an old stone cabin. Here the drifting sands have
made a small basin that retains the overflow of the several springs
issuing from the foot of the mountain and formed several small
ponds, the home of wild ducks, mud hens, and a small desert fish of
the genus Cyprinodon.

From Saratoga Springs we went up the valley by way of Rhodes
Wash and Bennett’s Wells. On either side are high mountains, be-
tween them the narrow valley, often less than ten miles wide. In the
bottom of the valley are sun-baked muds and wide stretches of
alkali and rock salt, and on the alluvial slopes, rocky wash with scat-

39
AO SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

tered clumps of creosote bush or mesquite. The mountain slopes are
devoid of all vegetation and soil, exposing only naked rock.

The eastern wall of the valley is precipitous and almost unscalable,
formed of brilliantly colored volcanic rocks rising 5,000 feet above
the floor. The western wall, the Panamint Range, is made up of
granite, limestone, and volcanic rocks, rising to an elevation of
10,937 or 11,240 feet above the floor. During six months of the
year the highest elevations of this range are capped with snow, the
melting of which feeds the springs along the western border of the

valley.

Fic. 30.—Saratoga Springs, south end of Death Valley. The surrounding lime-
stone mountains are almost bare of vegetation. (Photograph by Foshag.)

At Furnace Creek a good cabin in the lee of a high cliff was utilized
as a camp. Violent winds often swept down the wash at night, rat-
tling the tin cans among the boulders; other nights were beautifully
starlit and silent. Down the wash are clay hills containing some of the
most interesting of the mineral localities, while in the opposite direc-
tion lies Ryan, the center of the borax mining district, on the flank
of Mesa Negra.

The borax beds are found in a number of localities in and about
Furnace Creek Wash, a boulder-strewn dry stream channel flanked
by hills of sands, clays, and volcanic flows. These clay and sand hills
present a peculiar appearance. They are deeply dissected but with
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1929 41

es

Pee
erate

Pe nd Pye.

Fic. 31—The floor of Death Valley, showing the rough salt beds. (Photo-
graph by Gonyer.)

Fic. 32——Furnace Creek and the Funeral Range, Death Valley. The hills
in the foreground are shales and carry borate minerals. The mountains are
limestone. (Photograph by Grinnell.)
42 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Fic. 33.—A part of Mount Blanco showing a thick bed of borax ore. Death
Valley in the distance. (Photograph by Grinnell.)

Fic. 34—Mesa Negra and the camp of Ryan. The borax mines can be
seen to the right of the camp. The summit of the mesa is a broad flow of
black lava. (Photograph by Grinnell.)
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1929 43

Fic. 35.—Collecting minerals at Pluto’s Salt Pools, Death Valley. In these
natural “ blow-holes” fine groups of salt and other crystals can be obtained.
(Photograph by Foshag. )

Fic. 36.—Excavating for borax minerals in the floor of Death Valley. The
minerals are found in the mud at a depth of a few feet. (Photograph by
Foshag. )
44 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

smooth slopes covered by a soft, puffy soil and absolutely barren
of all vegetation—not a spear of grass modifies the variegated color
of their slopes. In these shales and sandstones the borax ore occurs in

beds or large lenses interstratified with the shales. It consists of the

Soe ee a ee - Oe ee Se i A eh.

fs Phin:

Fic. 37.—Bringing out the specimens. The minerals resulting from the work
shown in figure 36 are carried over the rough salt to the automobile. (Photo-
graph by Grinnell.)

minerals colemanite with minor amounts of meyerhofferite, both
borates of lime, and of ulexite and probertite, borates of lime and
soda. Other rarer minerals are found. In the workings made to
explore these deposits, numerous vugs lined with beautifully sharp,
clear crystals are found. Groups of these were carefully removed
and prepared for shipment.

SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1929 45

On the floor of Death Valley is an extensive accumulation of salt
and other minerals. We made excavations in this area to determine
the mineral character of the salt. Saturated brines are found imme-
diately below the surface and in the “ blow” holes in the salt crust
we found fine groups of halite crystals.

After the completion of the work in Death Valley we proceeded
to the Calico Hills, a brilliantly colored range of mountains lying
immediately north of the town of Yermo, San Bernardino County,
California. Borax has been produced here in important quantities,
but the old camp is now fallen into ruins and we made our camp in
a dugout in the clay walls of the canyon. Since the mines have been
abandoned for some years and have caved in, our work was confined
to the surface exposures and shallow openings. The ore was entirely
colemanite, much of it in the form of hollow spheres lined with
limpid crystals. Light blue crystals of celestite, a sulfate of strontium,
are found in these geodes, and with the colemanite form striking
specimens.

Our next locality was the new borax mines near Kramer, Cali-
fornia, now the only locality where borax is mined on an extensive
scale. These mines are extraordinarily rich, sufficient borax for
several centuries at our present rate of consumption being already
available. The ore is pure sodium borate or borax and contains much
kernite, a newly discovered borate of sodium. These mines, to-
gether with the chemical plants at Searles Lake where borax is
obtained in the process of recovering potash from the lake brines,
supply the entire world with borax. Shafts driven to a depth of
500 to 1,000 feet reach the borax bed, from which drifts leading in
various directions penetrate the ore. These tunnels are driven
through masses of solid mineral; their walls are snowy white with
borax or glistening with icy kernite.

We visited other borax mines including those of Lang, California ;
White Basin and Callville, Clark County, Nevada; and the Chetco
River, Southern Oregon.

Besides these mines of borax we examined a number of the playa
or dry lake deposits. These playas are the bottoms of the inter-
montane valleys, and having no outside drainage, are the basins for all
the salts leached from the encircling rocks. In the early days of the
American borax industry this mineral was recovered from these
alkali flats. Some of these playas are of considerable extent and
contain a variety of salts: sulfates, chlorides, carbonates, and borates
of sodium. In the muds that underlie the alkali crust are found
large and well developed crystals of the various minerals. To collect
46 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

these is often a tedious and disagreeable task. The sticky, tenacious
clays are saturated with brine and to collect the crystals we often
found it necessary to lie prone in the mud and alkali. The material
so collected, however, is of interest and importance for the study of
these little known occurrences.

The mineralogical information obtained during the trip adds much
to our knowledge of the boron minerals, a group that has received
little scientific attention. The specimen material acquired augments
the fine collections of this character already in the National Museum.
Some striking groups of fine crystals were collected for exhibition.

For the privilege of visiting many of the mines, acknowledgment
is due Messrs. Zabriskie, Rasor, Osborne, and Gower of the Pacific
Coast Borax Company, as well as a number of other friends who have
contributed both to the success of the undertaking and to the comfort
of the members of the expedition.
A Visit LO EUROPEAN: ZOOS

By W. M. MANN,
Director, National Zoological Park

For the purpose of studying some of the more important Euro-
pean zoological parks, the writer and Mr. Arthur L. Harris, Munici-
pal Architect of the District of Columbia, visited Europe in the spring
of 1929 under the auspices of the Smithsonian Institution. Our
principal object was to look over the reptile houses with a view to
including in the proposed building at the National Zoological Park
some of the features proved best by experimental work that several
of the European zoos have been able to do. In addition we made a
rather hurried survey of the organization of each zoo, together with
notes on the collections, cost of maintenance, etc. Mr. Harris devoted
most of his time to a study of zoo architecture.

In the limited space of the present paper it is possible only to men-
tion briefly a few of the outstanding features of each zoo visited. In
general we may state that we did not see a single unsatisfactory zoo
park on the entire trip. The collections were excellent, always well
cared for and well patronized by the public. Most of the gardens are
developing and improving continually, and we saw new buildings
under construction in practically every park visited. There are no
free zoos in Europe.

To acknowledge the kindness of those who assisted us in our work
would be to catalogue the officials of all the parks visited, all of whom
received us with the greatest hospitality and made our visits delight-
ful as well as instructive.

LONDON (Director, Sir Chalmers Mitchell)

The London Zoological Garden has a collection larger than any
other in Europe. We noted many improvements since our last visit
of five years ago. A splendid reptile house has been constructed on
new principles; the heating and lighting are accomplished entirely
by electricity and every inch of glass in the house is Vita-glass. The
combination of this and the use of various types of infra-red and
other lamps has proved markedly beneficial to the inhabitants of the
house, and we found such things as chameleons and Komotu dragons,
hitherto considered delicate, living, not for a few months, but for

4 47
48 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

years. Aquarium-style lighting is used throughout, the visitor being
in subdued light—an arrangement which gives the best visibility we
have seen in such houses. Among the new features in the garden is
a house built especially for turtles and tortoises and containing a
iarge collection.

With apparently every traveling or foreign-residing Britisher
bringing or sending home animals to the zoo, the collection stands out
among all others. Super-rarities that we saw were the marsupial

wolf and the takin. In the aquarium were all three species of lung
fish.

Fic. 38.—Keeper with the rare New Guinea spiny anteater,
London.

HANOVER (Director Mueller)

The zoo at Hanover, formerly run by a zoological society, was
taken over by the city in 1924. Since that time the collection has
been greatly enlarged and a number of additional buildings have been
erected. The new monkey house has a deep space behind the cages
filled with palms and other plants and the outside cages are un-
usually high. A new small-mammal house is under construction.

One of the interesting features of this zoo is a little outdoor en-
closure for guinea pigs with a house in the center, the whole separated
from the public by a cement wall only six inches high. When we
asked if people did not sometimes take these guinea pigs away, we
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1929 49

were informed that on the contrary children sometimes smuggled
their own pets into this enclosure, apparently delighted in seeing them
so prettily housed and well cared for. Features of the collection were
oryx, beisa, five elands, giraffe, rhinoceros, and six zebras.

HAMBURG (Director, M. A. Hans Bungartz)

Perhaps because of the competition of the zoo at Stellingen, only
20 miles away, the Hamburg Zoo is not developing as fast as some
of the others. There are many fine old buildings and the collection

Fic. 39.—Penguins at Stellingen, in naturalistic rock pool.

was very fair. Especially interesting were the small mammals, which
are brought to Hamburg in great numbers and varieties on German

ships.
STELLINGEN (The Hagenbecks)

Much has been written about this magnificent private enterprise
founded in 1905 by Carl Hagenbeck and since then maintained
by him and his sons. The Stellingen panoramas, the first of their
kind, and since often copied by other zoos, are the predominant
feature. Because the proprietors of the zoological gardens are also
dealers in animals, the collection changes continually and large herds
50 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Fic. 40——Patagonian sea elephant, Stellingen. Compare with ordinary sea
lion in central foreground.

Fic. 41—Mammoth sea elephant, Stellingen.
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1929 5!

of rare things are sometimes maintained. For instance, at the time of
our visit, one hundred penguins were disporting in two large rock-
work pools. There were a whole troup of elephants with Hindu
mahouts, elephant seals, and large flocks of flamingoes at liberty
about the grounds.

Here we find one of the best insect exhibition houses in all Europe.
The curator is an elderly German entomologist, who takes the samme
care of and interest in his specimens as the elephant man takes in his.
In showing us his charges, he took into his hand big scorpions, a six-
inch centipede, and giant spiders.

BERLIN (Director, Dr. Ludwig Heck)

The Berlin Zoological Park is the third oldest in Germany, having
Leen opened to the public in 1844. The present director, Dr. Ludwig
Heck, has been in charge since 1888. The buildings, of which there
are many, are commodious, well-planned, and most attractive to
look at. Some of them are beautifully decorated, and the archi-
tecture, borrowed from many lands, is usually suited to the nation-
ality of the inmates. Many of the buildings boast paintings, carvings
and stained glass windows. Some 3,000 animals and birds are exhib-
ited, 400 species of the former and 1,000 of the latter.

The newest building is the aquarium, a mammoth three-story struc-
ture, the first floor devoted to fishes, the second to reptiles, and the
third to insects. The bird house is at present being remodeled, for
in spite of the fact that the buildings are among the very best in
European zoos, they are continually being improved and enlarged,
and new ones are being built. The rodent house is two stories high,
the lower story being cut into the bank and with outside barless pits
for many small animals, an exhibition fascinating to children.

The collection is superb. Thirty species of deer are exhibited, 6
giraffes (of three species, including the rare cotton’), 12 gelada
baboons in one cage, a black howling monkey that has lived here two
years, and 9 species of lemurs living together. The number of young
animals born here is surprising; we saw a black lemur with two
babies, some young hyrax, and a mother elephant with young.

DRESDEN (Director, Dr. Gustav Brandes)

The Dresden Zoo was started by a society of poultry fanciers in
1859, and in 1860 a corporation was founded which took over the
gardens and added to the collection, forming a more comprehensive
ZOO.
52 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Dr. Gustav Brandes, the director, is a well-known student of the
orang-outangs, and his collection of these is notable. They are kept
in a temperature very humid as well as warm, under a Vita-glass roof,
in large cages which have wire mesh instead of wooden floor, with
logs arranged so that the animals never come to the ground but live
their natural lives in the tree tops. The gorilla is kept under the
same conditions. The most astonishing sight we saw in any zoo was
Dr. Brandes going into a cage with a family of orang-outangs, the

an)

et Se Fee 2 Se te
ses Se, eel PR: . Fae eae J

Fic. 42—Flight cage, Dresden. Artificial rock work and waterfall add greatly
to its attractiveness.

et ty

male 12 years old, the female 15, and a two-year-old baby, the latter
born from other parents, and still another young one that had been
born in the zoo at Dresden. Dr. Brandes goes in among these four
orangs, and calmly feeds them and brushes them, even brushing the
five-or-six-inch-long hair on the male. When he came out of the cage
he informed us that the male had been captured as an adult only 18
months ago,

The sea-lion pool is unusually large. There are big rocks for the
seals to dive from, and a chute for penguins to slide down into the
water. The rock work in the reptile house is made up of samples
from all over Germany and forms a geological collection of interest.
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1929 53

The great flight cage for the eagles was the finest we saw. It is
oval in shape, about 200 feet long and 50 feet high, with all the
construction on the outside so that the inner space is left entirely
open for the birds. The background is formed by a rocky cliff, so
that the birds may be viewed from above as well as below.

Despite very cool and rainy weather the zoo was crowded, and one
can see why, for there are many unusual features here, including
a pair of elephants, one of them an African, which performs daily,
as do lions and chimpanzees.

LEIPSIC (Director, Johannes Gebbing )

The Leipsic Zoo was started in 1876 with a small structure built
especially to house a little collection of crocodiles, but soon developed
into one of the foremost gardens of Europe. As you enter the gar-
dens you are confonted by an enormous cliff of rock work, pierced
by a tunnel and a grotto with artificial stalactites. Down one side
of this mountain tumbles a water-fall, on the other side is a semi-
circular cavern which serves as a bandstand. It was Whitsuntide,
and the crowd in the park was so great that we had to worm our
way through even in the early morning.

The finest building is a new pachyderm house, an enormous brick
structure with barless enclosures both inside and out, the animals
being separated from the public only by pits. The indoor hippo-
potamus pool, a very large one, was partially sheltered by a shelv-
ing rock which was thickly planted with flowering tropical plants.

The collection is large and contains many great rarities, with a
choice collection of fishes and reptiles.

HALLE (Director, Dr. Fritz Schmidt)

This is a mountainous zoo, built on a hill in a series of terraces,
with paths winding up the hill and around the cages. The finest build-
ing is the lion house, built in 1926, which has also an outdoor tiger
cage 40 feet in length. The hillsides have been excavated here and
there and cages set in for various small mammals, an attractive and
practical arrangement. The monkey house is small but well lighted
and arranged. In a small aquarium building were 100 small tanks
with a collection of European fishes and batrachians.

MUNICH (Director, Hans Heck)

This, the geo-zoo of Europe, was opened only two years ago, The
park is well out of the city, and comprises 35 hektares of mostly
54 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

wooded country, bounded by steep wooded hills on one side and by
the river Iser on the other. The city of Munich gave the land but
the zoo is maintained by a private society. Its popularity can be
judged by the fact that two-thirds of the entire population of
Munich visited it the first year.

The animals are arranged according to their native continents. One
tropical house has been built and several more have been planned.
Already the collection contains 2,500 birds and animals, with larger
herds of each species than is usual in zoological gardens.

Fic. 43.—New tropical building, Munich. The outside elephant paddock is
separated from visitors only by a moat.

The pachyderm house is the best lighted large house that we saw.
An open air lion pit, with one portion too feet long, is separated
from the public by a water-filled moat. The domestic animals of each
continent are together in very large paddocks. The penguin pool
contained 17 specimens of 4 species, In the South American group
were a pair of breeding Patagonian cavies, and we later secured a
pair of young ones from these for the National Zoo.

The African steppe is 350 meters long and contains zebras, 30
crowned cranes, Abyssinian guinea fowl, antelope, storks, herons,
spur-winged geese, and gnus. Two acres are enclosed in a monkey
pit inhabited by 100 hamadryas baboons. The elephant pit is 3 acres
in extent, with a 50-foot bathing pool.
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1929 55

With plenty of area and definite plans, only lack of money can
prevent this from becoming one of the most notable zoological gar-
dens in the world.

NUREMBERG (Director, Dr. Karl Thater)

At Nuremberg the zoo is built around four large lakes included in
the grounds and covering half the area of the park. Built over one

Fic. 44.—Baby orang at Nuremberg.

of the lakes is a reproduction of an old German lake house. As in
other German zoos, this zoo makes the most of its natural scenery.
Where scenery is lacking, they create it. So we find an artificial cliff
with the water tumbling over it, and along the edge of one lake a
great thicket of rushes with roe deer actually breeding there and
30 flamingoes walking along the shore.

The lion and tiger pits are unique. One views the animals from a
bridge built over the lake. The lake is used by the tigers as a swim-
ming pool and every day they can be seen disporting in the water. The
sea-lion pool is enormous. At one end is an artificially-built cliff
from which the five sea-lions have been taught to leap into the water.
6) SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

FRANKFURT (Director, Dr. Kurt Priemel)

The Frankfurt zoo is next to the oldest in Germany; it was
founded in 1858 and moved to its present location in 1874. There are
about 3,000 animals and birds in the collection which is the second
finest in Germany. This was the first zoo to use a glass house for
reptiles and the first in Germany to have an exhibition of insects.
It was also the first to use plants and rock work in reptile cages.

The collection contains two fine giraffes, a rhinoceros, and three
varieties of elephant (one of them, formerly with the Ringling Circus,

~

Fic. 45.—African elephant, Frankfurt-am-Main, with Director and
Frau Priemel.

has been living here for 15 years.) The African elephant is very tame
and is daily led about the grounds. Orangs have bred in the zoo, and
there is now a breeding pair of sloth bears. Two aardvaarks arrived
the same afternoon that we did, and the following morning they had
dug themselves in the ground and out of sight. Twenty-four species
of hornbills live in the park; a pair of Jackson’s hornbills was breed-
ing. The female had been sealed with mud in a wooden box nest by
the male, who brought food to her when it was placed in the cage.

In the aquarium and reptile house we saw the giant Amazon turtle,
Podocnemus expansa, which had been living there for six months,
and a Chinese alligator that arrived in Europe in 1886. A monitor,
now six feet long, was only six inches long when it came to the zoo.
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1929 oy

COLOGNE (Director Hauchecorne)

The Cologne zoo was established in 1857, and is now maintained
by the city. The complete collection consists of 1,600 animals and
birds, including 2 giraffes. In times past 6 giraffes have been born
in the park, and sea-lions have also been bred here on two different
occasions. The polar bear pits and the sea-lion pool are unusually
good. The bird collection contains many rarities, among them the
only West Australian cockatoo (Calypharynchus stellatus) that we
saw in Europe.

Fic. 46.—Entrance to Zoo at Budapest.

DUSSELDORF (Director Georg Aulmann)

This zoo, established 52 years ago in a park of 16 hektares, now
has a collection of 1,500 animals. A new monkey house 130 feet
long with an open pit all along one side is now under construction.
In the old monkey house were three gorillas, one of them Susi, who
afterwards came to America on the Zeppelin. The other two are a
mixed pair, one from the Cameroons and one the mountain gorilla.
The five woolly monkeys that we saw here had been in the park five
and a half years. Of the three orangs, one is the largest in captivity.

A feature of this zoo is a little railroad that takes children around
the park on Sundays. A small natural history museum is under
construction.
58 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

ELBERFELD (Director Keusch)

The Elberfeld zoological park, opened in 1881 by a corporation,
is very hilly and the most beautifully gardened in all the world. The
present director was formerly head gardener at Potsdam under two
kaisers and has brought with him his flair for creating beautiful
landscapes.

There are three new buildings, as follows:

1. The monkey house, which has open pits inside as well as out.
A profusion of plants grow in the building, with a small palm garden
and pool in the center. An interesting feature was an arrangement
for artificial rain; the director turned a crank and we saw a tropical
downpour in the building.

2. The aquarium, reptile house and insectarium, another small
building exquisitely planned. Plants were blooming in nearly all the
reptile cages.

3. The elephant house, which contains a big pool at one end for
hippopotami. One big elephant cage occupies one side of the house,
and three smaller cages for tapir and rhino fill the other side.

The outdoor panorama is especially interesting, It is in three sec-
tions, one for seals and sea lions, another above for polar bears, and a
third for reindeer and ibex. A fairly comprehensive view of the
whole thing may be obtained from below, but passages between each
panorama permit the visitor to approach more closely to the animals.

VIENNA (Director, Dr. Otto Antonius)

The Vienna zoo, at present maintained by the city, is the oldest
in Europe; it was begun about 150 years ago by Maria Theresa as a
private collection. The public were admitted only on certain holidays
and then never inside the houses. Hence the houses are small and
most of the animals can only be seen outdoors in good weather. The
gardens, which are adjacent to the magnificent Schénbrunn Palace
grounds, are beautiful and well arranged.

The collection is rich in rarities, due chiefly to the efforts of a
Viennese banker, Mr. Weidholz, who has made several collecting
trips to West Africa. Of the three giraffes, one came from Senegal.
There are three West African lions, a pair of red buffalo, and no less
than 18 species of African antelope including the West African kob
and the horse antelope, and two male hyena dogs. Many interesting
animals were born in the zoo, including an Indian elephant, a great
ant-eater, and Arabian and Dorcas gazelles.
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1929 59

BUDAPEST (A. Czerba, in charge)

Just inside the entrance to the Budapest zoo roads radiate in four
directions and there is a beautiful floral display. The monkey house
is excellent ; all cages are lighted from the top and the inside cages
are protected from the public by glass placed six inches from the bars.
Two lion marmosets are kept in a glass-fronted cage, where they are
given extra heat from electric light bulbs. After six months of cap-
tivity they were in excellent condition.

The arrangement of open pits for hons is unusuaily good. The
ground slopes in front away from the visitor, so that he loses all idea

ef a pit, and feels as though only a narrow strip of grass separated
him from the lion. In the pachyderm house the bathing pool is

Fic. 47.—Waterfowl pond, Budapest. Specimen of magnificent artificial
rock work.
heated by natural hot water from springs 2,500 feet below the ground.
This house is unusual in that the cages are arranged like grottoes,
lighted from above.

The beautifully decorated aquarium is maintained by an extra
admission charge of 8 cents, most of which is used to buy new stock.
The excellent collection of reptiles and tropical fish are kept in a
converted palm house. The bird house, though not very large, ap-
pealed to us as the best we had seen. At one end is a glass-enclosed
panorama with a pool and rock work, housing avocets and shore birds.

The zoo maintains a large farm outside the city where much food
for the animals is raised. An interesting feature of this zoo is that
most of the employees live in a large apartment house at one side
of the park.
60 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

COPENHAGEN (Director, Th. Alving)

The Copenhagen Zoo was founded by a private society and or-
ganized as a stock company. Its income is something over $100,000
a year, and its attendence 400,000. The 18 acres of this park are well
laid out and beautifully cared for, and are adjacent to a large public
park. It has a good collection.

The new monkey house has several unique features. The ceiling
and walls in the visitors’ part are black. The cages are lighted from
above, and one entire side is a conservatory, separated from the
public by glass, and containing large cages for the great apes. These
cages have oak parquet floors imbedded in asphalt. Vita-glass is to
be installed in the hospital and receiving cages. On the outside of the
building is a row of conventional cages, but at either end is a barless
pit backed by the building, inhabited by baboons and mangabeys.

Chief among the animals is the female Indian elephant, now, very
old, but distinguished for having borne three young in captivity.

ANTWERP (Director, Dr. Michel L’hoest )

This is one of the older zoos, and the most convenient of all for the
tourist, as the entrance adjoins one side of the railroad station—in
fact the station serves as part of the boundary of the zoo.

The buildings are very large, with a great deal more space than
is usually provided for the visitor; some of them are beautifully
decorated. The aquarium and reptile house are together. There is a
‘“Jaiterie,” a large room with tables where milk is served. The cows,
each one pedigreed and named, are kept in the same building sepa-
rated from the public only by a glass partition.

The collection is one of the most remarkable that we saw. The
only okapi in captivity had been in the zoo for six months. This
animal stood about four feet high at the shoulders, was very tame
and in fine condition. Nearby were two giraffes from the Lake Chad
country, kept behind glass, and an elephant from the Congo, one of
the herd that has been domesticated in the Katanga as work animals.

Antwerp has the only shoebill in any European zoo, The collection
of raptorial birds was the finest that we saw in Europe.

AMSTERDAM (Director, Doctor Sunier)

The Amsterdam gardens, opened in 1838, are the third oldest in
Europe. This is a healthy zoo for directors, for during the past 91
years there have been only three directors, including the present in-
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1929 61

Fic. 49.—Wild cattle house, Amsterdam. Rooms in upper floor used as
laboratories by university students in zoology.
62 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

cumbent, who is a comparatively recent arrival. The zoo is main-
tained as a private society, and it has some private endowment. The
university and the zoo cooperate, and a large zoological laboratory is
maintained on the upper floors of the wild cattle house. We visited
the laboratory and saw the university students working. It was inter-
esting to find zoology being studied in a zoo.

The buildings are large and good, though old; the collection is
superb. The group of wild cattle is the best that we saw. Among
the breeding animals are anoas, gayals, and Sumatran wild boars.
Among the rarities were the ai-ai, which has lived there since 1914,
and a Tomistoma from Borneo; an aardvaark, which has now been
in the collection for three years, is so tame it will come when called
and enjoys being petted; Javanese otters; and a manatee. The
manatee has been in the zoo for a year, living in a large tank closed
above with glass. Both the water and air are kept at a temperature of
80 degrees. The animal is fed lettuce, and according to the director,
costs 3075 guilders a year to maintain.

A new open air lion pit, now under construction, will have a
cement background planted on top with greenery. The aquarium is
unusually good. We noticed a school of herring, which are not com-
mon in aquaria because, it is said, at night they bump into the rocks
and kill themselves. These have been provided with a night lamp
and as a result are the only successful school of herring in any
aquarium. A pair of sterlets (Acipenser ruthenus) have been there
for 47 years.

ROTTERDAM (Director, K. Kuiper)

This zoo was established in 1857 by three amateur zoologists. The
park itself is flat, but splendidly laid out with gardens and good
buildings. European blue herons nest here annually, many trees
in the park having a dozen or more nests in each. The great flight
cage for outdoor birds was one of the most attractive that we saw in
Europe, and the splendid sea-lion pool, built at a cost of $40,000, had
a water fall at one end.

The collection contains upward of 2,600 animals, many of them
gifts to the society. Among the notable exhibits were three speci-
mens of Felis minuta, the little tiger cat from the East Indies, and a
cage of Australian bush turkeys.
EXPLORATIONS IN HAITIAN CAVES

By ARTHUR J. POOLE,
Aid, Division of Mammals, U. S. National Museum

During the past few years several expeditions from the Smith-
sonian Institution have visited Haiti with the purpose of exploring
the numerous caves for the bones of extinct animals and birds, and
also to make general biological collections, principally birds and
reptiles. The present expedition is a continuation of biological ex-
plorations in Haiti made by Mr. Gerrit S. Miller, Jr., Curator, Divi-
sion of Mammals, U. S. National Museum, in 1925, Dr. Alexander
Wetmore, Assistant Secretary, Smithsonian Institution, in 1927, and
the writer during the winter of 1927-1928. This expedition, as well
as the one during the winter of 1927-1928, was made possible through
the generosity of Dr. W. L. Abbott.

Accompanied by Mr. Watson Perrygo, taxidermist’s preparator,
U. S. National Museum, I left Washington December 8 for New
York City, and from there sailed on December 11 on the S. S.
Cristobal for Haiti. On December 20 we arrived at Port au Prince,
and left there a few days later for St. Michel, about 150 miles north-
ward by auto, where we were made welcome at the home of
Lt. Barwick, our headquarters in the St. Michel district. On the 27th
work was started in one of the caves of the Atalaye group, and
after a thorough examination of this cave, with no results, we dis-
covered two new ones that had not been worked before. Both of
these were somewhat similar to one just examined, in that we
had to use ropes to lower ourselves to the floor, a distance of about
20 feet. In the larger one there was an additional incline of about 20
feet which was covered with surface soil. At the base of this incline,
the cave opened into a long chamber, about 100 feet in length, with
several chambers of small size opening from the main one. The ceil-
ing was quite low, from 8 to 12 feet and, therefore, we saw but few
bats. We excavated in numerous sections of the floor, which consisted
principally of guano, but found few bones, chiefly skulls of living
forms of bats and a series of jaws of a small extinct insect-eating
animal (Nesophontes).

In one section of the cave was a huge pile of guano, about 15 or
18 feet in height, and upon closer examination we found there was a
small crevice about a foot wide and three feet long at the top of the

5 63
64 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Fic. 50.—-Presidential palace at Port au Prince. The street in the foreground is
named after Lindbergh.

Fic. 51—Native market scene at St. Michel. The bulk of the articles for sale
are laid out on the ground. The articles are carried back and forth each day
from the native’s home to the market place.
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1929 65

guano heap. We had noticed the peculiar clicking sound made by
bats but had seen only a small number clinging to the ceiling of the
cave, so we decided to investigate more thoroughly the source of the
noise. We crawled carefully up the guano heap toward the crevice,
and when within about two feet of the hole, noticed a great amount of
heat coming through the opening, together with very strong ammonia
fumes, and we could hear the swishing of large numbers of wings.
Perrygo and I placed our electric lanterns through the opening and
turned them on. Immediately there was a terrific noise resembling
that of a hurricane, and bats flashed past our heads by the hundreds.
Beyond this tiny opening was concealed another cave or chamber as
large as the entire outer cave, and in it were hundreds of thousands of
bats. A few hours later, after the bats became quiet again, we took
another look at them. It was a wonderful sight. As far as the
rays of the electric lantern would carry, great masses of bats could
be seen clinging to every available inch of ceiling and walls, some
of these masses being as large as a bushel basket, while thousands
were in flight. From observations and specimens taken, only two
species appeared to occupy this great roost. Four days were spent
working this cave.

On January 10 we started work in a large cave near San Rafael
which had been partially worked during the previous season. Four
days were spent here with fair results, a fine series of jaws of the
small insectivorous animal being obtained.

Two days were spent working in a large cave situated about 33
miles southeast of Don Don. The opening was situated about too
feet back from, and about 30 feet above, the river level, and although
the cave appeared to be just the type to contain extinct mammal and
bird bones, relatively small numbers of bones were found, these
consisting chiefly of rats and bats.

Because our line of work was different from anything the people
of this section had seen before, we were visited daily by hundreds
of natives eager to watch our every move. The consequence was,
that we were unable to give proper attention to the preparing of our
collection. At San Rafael and at Don Don, among our various col-
lections, we had taken five live snakes, commonly known as tree boas,
which we kept in a large gunny-sack. Knowing the natives greatly
feared snakes, and believing it would keep them away from the door
so that we might get enough light to work by, we hung the bag on the
guide rope attached to the front of the tent. It did not take long for
one of the natives to discover that the bag contained live snakes, and al-
though temporarily it kept them away from the entrance, the news
INSTITUTION

SMITHSONIAN

66

"JYSIEy Ul y205 OS
0} SI WO} SUISULI SUTTIZD 9Y} YIM ‘Y}PIM UL yI9fF OQ OF
0g Wor Aq Y}SUZT UT Joa} OSI JNoQe SI 9Avd DY} ‘YSIoy pue
YIPIM UI Joof Mo} & Jnq St dDUeI]UB VY} YSsnoyy ‘dnois

JPY 3S 94} JO aed ysasrey] oy} 0} soUeIJUy—'ES “DIT

“WdY} sAtoso1d 0} Japs0
UI P2AOUII SIUN}JIWIOS 9B dS9Y} S9ABD 9Y} UT
YIOM Jenjoe je aIYM ‘UI0} pue passz3e} JeYM
-dWIOS IIB S9Y}O[D JIOYy} YSnoyIY “yIOM 9Aed
ut padojdwuia sAoq aarjyeu yo adAL—<zS ‘oI

tp
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1929 67

spread rapidly to the village and countryside, the consequence being
that we thereafter had about three times as many visitors as before
we produced the bag of snakes.

On January 20 we broke camp and started overland for Grande
Riviere, and from there by train to Cape Haitien, where we remained
for several days purchasing supplies and making necessary arrange-
ments for the following month’s work. On January 26 we left Cape
Haitien for Fort Liberté, the old French capital of Haiti, situated
on the northern coast about midway between Cape Haitien and the
Dominican border. The present town of Fort Liberté is but a
skeleton of what it once was; at every turn and on every street
may be seen tumbled-down ruins of once beautiful buildings and fine
homes. Between the town and the narrow entrance to the bay, a few
miles distant, are a number of old French forts, at one time the
powerful protection of the French capital of Haiti. Even today these
forts are almost intact, strong high walls bordering the edge of the
bay, with small openings every few feet for the projecting muzzles
of the cannon. In the interior are the old powder magazines, wells
for the supply of drinking water, and passageways to the various
sections of the fort.

At 7.45 one evening we finally set sail for the Seven Brothers
Islands in a native-made sail boat about 20 feet in length and with
a single sail. As we planned to spend several weeks working on the
various islands, our small boat was well laden, with its crew of two,
our native cook, and Perrygo and myself, together with our food
supplies, fresh water, and camp equipment. At about 3 a. m. we
arrived at Tororu Island, and after remaining on the boat until day-
break, we landed to make investigations. This island, was, like most
of the group, very small, and contained only a few trees and bushes,
a rather heavy growth of coarse grass, and a small variety of cactus.
Lizards were very numerous, some of which we collected as speci-
mens, together with a few sand crabs and small birds. As we were
walking along the sandy beach on the east side, one of the crew
pointed to a spot that had been considerably torn up. Upon closer
examination it proved to be the tracks of a huge sea turtle that had
come upon the beach to deposit its eggs. The two men began digging
carefully with their hands, their faces beaming with smiles. After
pulling the sand away to a depth of about 15 inches, they found the
eggs, and to our astonishment and the natives’ joy, the nest contained
193, half filling a bushel basket. Monte Chico Island, some four or
five miles to the northeast, we found to be almost a duplicate of the
one we had just left. We spent a couple of hours here, during
INSTITUTION

SMITHSONIAN

*“SdAT}eU 94} JO guIOs Aq paddiysi0M
aie ‘Joeyey ueS se uMOUY ‘Jasue Ue JO UWIOJ IY} Saye}
dAed JepHo sed sty} Ul YOIYM JO 9UO ‘SUOTJeWIIOJ Iso],
‘JOBFeY] ULS Je AVI JU} Ul SUOTJEUTIOY 9yJDe[eIG— SS “oI

"QSL[[IA JO [IAI] VAOGL 399] OOO'I
jnoqe pure JULISIP SapIUI OM] JNOGe 9ABD ISIE] & JO JOLIOJUT
94} WI} Usye} JOeJeY URS JO I8RTTIA sAeN—TS “oI

SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1929 69

which time we collected some small birds and lizards, the latter being
very plentiful. We arrived at the tiny Muertos Island about mid-after-
noon and soon started unloading the boat to make this our permanent
base. This island is the smallest of the seven, being only about 400
feet long by 300 feet wide, very low, with sandy shores on all sides,
the entire island appearing like a small sandbar, surrounded on three
sides by coral reefs that protruded above the water during low tide.
All the larger vegetation was in the center of the island, a fine place
for a camp, as the trees were large enough for shelter and shade.

On January 30 we made an early start for Tercero Island, the
second largest of the group, being about a half mile long by a
quarter mile wide, completely encircled by a wide sandy beach. Here,
besides an assortment of lizards and a few small birds, we were very
fortunate in getting a pair of the rare oyster catchers. About
2p. m. we decided to start back, and when we boarded the boat the
crew appeared very talkative, somewhat nervous, and in a hurry,
which was quite contrary to their usual mood. It did not take us
long to learn the reason, for half a mile out from the lee side of the
island we began to run into huge waves and by now the wind from the
northeast was blowing a gale, From this point it was perhaps five
miles to our island camp. Many times the bow of our small boat
plowed through a large wave, soaking all of us and keeping both
Perrygo and me bailing water. The crew were yelling orders to one
another and to us, although at this time we did not understand what it
was all about, but it looked as though we might be swamped at any
moment. Finally we reached our tiny island, where six fisherman
started out in one boat to help us. In a few minutes we were trans-
ferred to their boat, while some of them helped our crew get safely
to the lee side of the island. The strong wind kept up all night, at
one time almost carrying our tent away. All night long the waves
pounding against the northeast corner of the island sounded like the
roar of distant cannon, and at times the waves would break over the
sandy rim of the island, but the water soon disappeared through the
sand. As our supply of fresh water had been almost completely
exhausted, we ordered the crew and cook to leave as early as possible
for the mainland to fetch a new supply of water and some fresh
vegetables. They left shortly after daybreak, the wind being favorable
to get them to Fort Liberté in a few hours, and we expected them
to return during the afternoon. I did not realize that our water supply
had gotten so low until, starting to prepare breakfast, I found that
it was less than two quarts. About noon the wind started blowing
again and in a few hours reached gale proportions, as it had the day
‘uaIpepy ade 0} ddulIg ne }10gq WOI} papua}xa yey} peor

YyouatyT PjO ay} AjsJoUIOF SEM ,, JooT}S UTRUT,, dU, ‘Sosnoy UOTZBIO] SIY} VABIT 0} p9d10F AT]BoOWOeId s1IM
JATJEU JY} UO Sood [eyo JY} AQ PaIdUepPlAd St UOTIeS pue yIOM Ino osNUTUOD O} J;GeUN o1IM 9M yey} SJoquinu
sty} ut Aytodsoid ayy, “say pue soyOd Ul YI ‘QSRTIIA a3IV] YONS UT SN PISIA 0} 9WIeD ‘APISOLIND YSnNosy} ‘SoaArjeu
aayeu onbsainzord pue [nyyneeq e ‘uogq uoq—ZS ‘oI1y dy} JEU} Atay SPM ZT ‘UOG UOG Je dues mO—9S “DIY

INSTITUTION

SMITHSONIAN

SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1929 7a

previous, and the gale continued five more days. Fortunately it
rained very hard for several days, supplying us with an abun-
dance of fresh water. It was not until Sunday morning, February 3,
that our crew managed to get out to our island, They had been sail-
ing for two days and nights trying to reach us, and when they finally
managed to make a landing, they were completely exhausted.

After visiting three more of the islands, we returned to Fort
Liberté, and from February 6 to 20 our entire time was given to the
collecting of birds. We made several short trips out of Fort Liberté
in the same little sail boat we used on our island trip, with excellent
results. During this period we made a collection of 163 bird skins
and 39 bird skeletons, together with a number of bats, lizards, fish,
mollusks, and miscellaneous material. Our next objective was the
Island of La Gonave.

At 9g p. m., February 27, we left St. Marc in a sail boat, somewhat
larger and of much better build than the one we had in the north,
with a crew of two men. About midnight the moon rose and at this
time we were but a few miles out from land. The wind had ceased
entirely, and the crew had stopped sculling, stating that 1t would soon
blow again. About I a. m. our attention was attracted by a peculiar
sound, like the ‘‘ blowing” of porpoises. We paid little attention to
it, believing it to be a school of porpoises going by, but we soon heard
it again, this time but a short distance away, and much to our surprise,
we saw plainly in the moonlight, a large whale not more than 500
feet from our boat. The next “ blow ’”’ came from the opposite side
of our ship, about the same distance as the one we had previously
seen on our right. The tactics of appearing, blowing, and then dis-
appearing, continued for a few minutes, when to our amazement, one
appeared on each side of our boat. The crew paid little attention to
them, but the rest of us began to feel somewhat uneasy, having a
whale bobbing up and down so close to us on each side. A few
minutes later we could see and hear three whales, apparently playing
or feeding near the same spot. This continued for about a half hour,
when they all seemed to make a deep dive at the same time, their
tails being high out of the water as they went down, and this was the
last we saw of them.

At 6 p. m., 21 hours after leaving St. Marc, a distance of 22 miles,
we arrived at Anse a Galet, the Gendarmerie Headquarters for the
Island, where the only American, an officer of the Marine Corps, was
stationed. From Anse a4 Galet we traveled overland to En Café, and
on March 4 investigations were begun in a group of caves that we
located about a mile from our camp. The first one to be worked was
INSTITUTION

SMITHSONIAN

72

*syeas-ajod 94} UO sinoy JOf SUIqTIS ‘sSUTJIOU
9SoY} OF PUNOIB Soplus WOIZ JWOD SaATFeU dy, ‘asoy
dd4v9S AIOA Sutoq Joquiny ‘s}eas 10; sajod ayoN “aavuor
eT jo pues] ‘oyey uy 3 Yomnyo saAWeN—6S ‘oy

«ABp YSeM,, SPM }I JY} SN powsojul
oy jt Jo stued0q JLYM poyse UsYAA “WIYS sty snurur
Aep Joy}O At9A9 ynoge svadde pynom Aqeq ay} SurAs1e9
MO][2} FHI] SOY, “9AeUOT) YT JO pues] ‘ajey uy ye
UdIP[IYI SUIAIIVD PUR SuUIpPjOY Jo poyjyy

“QS “OI

SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, I929 73

the largest of the group of six, and here we obtained a small amount
of the extinct animal bones, and a considerable amount of human re-
mains. Perrygo, in the meantime, was making a collection of birds
from this and nearby localities. Two days more were spent in com-
pleting the largest cave, which was somewhat disappointing from
the standpoint of material, considering its size. All of the extinct
material was found in the entrance and none in the cave proper,
which was about 100 feet in depth by about 50 to 60 feet in width.
The following four days were spent completing this group, with but
fair results. On the roth both Perrygo and I spent the entire day
on bird work. The following day we shifted operations to a large
cave about 24 miles to the northeast. Two days were required to com-
plete the work here.

Each day while working in this section, we could hear the strum-
ming of native drums and, on many occasions, would see small pro-
cessions of both men and women marching over the hills and through
the valleys, usually with a leader carrying two flags, one red and one
white, a drummer, a native shaking an instrument that resembled a
large rattle, consisting of a long stick with a can attached, partially
filled with stones or other objects. Sometimes there would be a man
blowing a long bamboo flute that emitted a rather weird or mournful
tone, and occasionally conch shell horns were added to produce noise.
We had heard many rumors in connection with these daily parades
and were of the opinion that they were staged for no good purpose.
On the night before we broke camp, a “ parade” was started about
dusk. We could hear the drums and other instruments, together with
the almost incessant yelling, or perhaps singing, of the natives. At
first it was far away, although we could tell from the increased vol-
ume of noises that they were constantly moving and apparently
gathering more members of their clan. Just about as we were ready
to retire, we noticed the sounds getting more and more distinct, com-
ing in our direction. We had only a short time to wait before they
were passing within a few feet of our tent, the music now being in
great volume, and, by the aid of a few torches they carried, we could
see that they were constantly dancing. At first we were somewhat
alarmed as the procession by now had reached enormous proportions.
However, we remained in or near our tent, and finally the parade
passed on, but not for long. An hour or so later it returned, stronger
than ever, and this kept up until long after daybreak. That morning
we packed our outfit on the burros and made ready for the long trip
back to Anse a Galet. As we were leaving we were informed that
the all-night parade had been staged in our honor, which caused us
74 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

to feel much relieved. The results of this trip, besides our cave
material, were a fine assortment of small birds, 79 skins, 42 skeletons,
together with a few bats.

On the morning of March 14 we left La Gonave for St. Marc, and
left there at daybreak the next day on the express for Port au Prince,
which consisted of a motor-driven engine and one passenger coach.
Our next trip took us to Cerca La Source, some 30 miles to the east
of Hinche, and near the Dominican border. We camped about 5
miles out from the village, near a large cave that we were to inves-
tigate. This cave was somewhat different from any of the others we
had worked in. It had two entrances of about the same size, one
opening on the south, the other on the east, and but a few yards from
one another. The slope from each entrance to the base or floor was
quite steep, being about 30 feet in depth. The two passages joined
at the floor level of the cave. The main chamber was circular, about
25 feet in diameter, with low ceiling, and no signs of either stalactites
or stalagmites such as we had found in most of the other caves.
From this central chamber ran five tunnel-like, long, narrow pas-
sages, two toward the south and three toward the north. The two
southern passages were carefully explored and found to extend about
75 to 100 feet, narrowing considerably at their terminus, and both
with low ceilings. One of the northerly passages was almost a dupli-
cate of the two just mentioned while another rose quite abruptly and
came to an end at a distance of about 50 feet. The fifth one, we were
unable to explore fully. In all the passages a few small bats were
seen, either clinging to the low ceiling or flying about. In order to
get into the fifth or last chamber mentioned, we were compelled to
climb over an enormous bank of bat guano, some 15 or 18 feet in
height, which all but obscured the entrance. After we passed be-
yond this guano heap and had traversed the narrow passageway for
some 30 or 40 feet, we felt as if we were walking into an oven, the
heat being terrific, and the ammonia fumes so strong that it was
almost impossible to breathe. Bats were flying about us in great
numbers, hitting us on all parts of the body, as the passageway had
now become a mere tunnel about 3 feet wide and 4 feet high. With
the aid of electric lanterns, we could see, perhaps 30 or 40 feet farther
back, what appeared to be a solid mass of bats. We finally were
forced to return to the outer chamber and fresh air.

We had noticed on the previous evening, at dusk, that thousands
of bats suddenly appeared among the trees and around our house,
and continued to come for quite a period of time. On the following
day, we discovered the enormous bat colony in the cave, so decided
75

SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1929

“sjsu pouopuee IY} JO SUIOS UT }SOOI OSTe s}eq ‘sjaoyessed
ay} Aq JOAO UdYe} Jo}e] ate YITYM Jo suIOS
A][RUISIIO SIOyIIdpOOM IY], “94IN0G BT ke
efor ur Sunsou sjyaayxeised pue siaxsadpoo

‘

s}sou 94} oyeUl
day }e sued

Mee 19 pT

‘QYOUIS JO PNo]D & s[quIasa1 Ady} ‘AeML
g0ur}sIp JOYS ApoAZeIedui0d & WOIZ ‘JeY} UOT}BUIIO} osUIp
Yons Ul ABD SI} JO JNO JWOD s}eq JO SspuesNoY} JO spoiIp

-uny 3snp ye Suraas AaAG “904IN0G eT ed19) 3 AUOIOD
yeq snouljous SuIUTe}UOD aAeD 0} BdURIJUY—OQ “OITA

76 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

to watch them make their exit that evening. At 5.45 p. m., Perrygo
and I stationed ourselves near one of the entrances. In about ten
minutes a half dozen bats came out of the inner chamber, flew to the
edge of the entrance, and then returned. This was repeated several
times, each time with an added number of bats. Then one or two flew
beyond the entrance, circled, and returned. By this time the entrance
was a seething mass of bats, although they were not, as yet, flying
away. Suddenly we heard a roaring, swishing sound, and immedi-
ately, as though by a given signal, they came out of both entrances
by the thousands, flying away in all directions at great speed. The
natives were very superstitious about this cave, and, shortly after our
arrival, told us that sometimes, just at dusk, smoke came pouring out.
Undoubtedly the “ smoke” they referred to was the dense clouds
of bats, which, at a comparatively short distance, resembled smoke.

On March 29 we left Cerca La Source for Port au Prince, where
the rest of our time was utilized in the packing and shipping of our
material to the National Museum, On April 3 we sailed aboard the
S. S. Ancon for New York.

The success of the expedition was due largely to the courtesies
extended by Dr. G. F. Freeman of the Service Technique, who fur-
nished transportation facilities on several occasions ; General Russell,
American High Commissioner ; Generals Evans and Ramsay of the
Guard de Haiti, who assisted us in many ways; and the U. S. Marine
Corps.
BIOLOGICAL COLLECTING WITH TRAE U.S NAVAL
OBSERVATORY H@EIPSE EXPEDITION
RO THE PII PINE TSeANDS!

I3¢ IDG ISLERINGIRAY (C. IIBILILIE IRS,
United States Navy

While on duty with the U. S. Marine Corps in Nicaragua, I re-
ceived a radio early in January, 1929, detailing me to accompany the
U.S. Naval Observatory Eclipse Expedition to the Philippine Islands
as representative of the Smithsonian Institution. I left Nicaragua
January 10, and eleven days later arrived in San Diego, California,
where I gathered together the collecting equipment which had been
sent out for me by the U. S. National Museum, and joined the eclipse
party on board the U. S. S. Henderson, which sailed for Manila
January 26. After a pleasant voyage across the Pacific, stopping at
Honolulu and Guam, we arrived at Manila, February 19, where the
party was met by Father Selga, Director of the Manila Observatory,
who had during the previous year prepared interesting maps and
astronomical and meteorological data indicating the conditions likely
to prevail at the time of the eclipse; also a summary of the housing
facilities, hygienic conditions, and accessibility of the places in the
path of totality, which were of great value to the astronomers and
also to me as biologist of the expedition. After remaining two weeks
at Manila, we left March 5 on the U. S. Penquin for Iloilo, Panay
island, arriving there March 9. This gave me exactly 8 weeks to do
collecting before the eclipse which took place on May 9.

Iloilo is the second largest city of the Philippine Islands, in popula-
tion as well as in commerce. We spent several days in visiting various
places and examining sites on which to erect the astronomical instru-
ments and cameras. It was decided at last to occupy the grounds
of the Philippine Railroad at Lapus, which was just across the [oilo
River from the City and connected by a ferry that ran unceasingly
day and night at one centavo a trip in the daytime and two centavos
at night. The president of the railroad offered to us all the facilities
at his command, including the use of the machine and work shops

*The Smithsonian Institution is greatly indebted to the Navy Department for
its cooperation and courtesy in designating Lieutenant Kellers, the medical officer
of the Eclipse Expedition, as special representative of the Institution for the
purpose of collecting natural history material.

Tdi
78 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

rand Pe ae
“ SOS a iy

Fic. 62.—The astronomical camera, so large that two operators sat inside to
change the plates during the eclipse. (Photograph by Kellers.)

Fic. 63.—My collectors working at low tide. (Photograph by Kellers.)
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, I929 79

and storage space, and for me a large room with electric lights, run-
ning water, tables and shelves, for use as a laboratory.

I have found that in collecting in foreign countries and among
primitive people one of the first requisites is to court the friendship
of the natives. If one does not speak the language or dialect, he
should compile a small vocabulary of words and phrases to carry
around with him, such as, “I want,’ “Bring me,” “Let us go
fishing,” etc., and adding to these simple phrases the native name for
the various specimens that one is after. I have found that the fewer
words used, the better the natives understand, as they soon learn
that you are collecting the various classes of fauna indigenous to the
locality. One of my most useful collectors turned out to be the ex-
president of the non-Christian tribes of the island of Panay; the
faithful old fellow came walking down to the wharf with two large
monitor lizards, hog-tied and hanging over his shoulders, just as
the expedition was leaving Iloilo on the steamer for Manila after the
eclipse. These were brought safely to the National Zoological Park
in Washington. A couple of pesos were thrown to him, and he was
all smiles as we sailed away.

When we were settled, collecting started immediately. Daily hauls
of the 40-foot seine were made on the beach at various stages of the
tide. Natives were sent out with the smaller seine to the fish ponds
for specimens that could not be obtained elsewhere. I hunted daily
for reptiles but although the country appeared to be good collecting
ground, few were obtained. After questioning the natives, I] found
that it was necessary to get up early in the morning an hour or so
before sunrise, and upon going over with a flashlight or lantern the
same ground that I had covered the previous day, I found numerous
snakes out foraging for their breakfast. Like the natives, they retire
during the heat of the day to the shade and dense thickets and can
not be found.

Traps were set around the various barrios and in the swamps and
jungle for whatever we might get. Numerous giant lizards were
captured, as well as live pythons, birds, and monkeys, and also a
number of civet_cats which were brought back alive to the States
for the National Zoological Park. Tow-net hauls were made at
various stages of the tide in the Iloilo Straits for both diatoms and
crustacea. Several trips were made to the caves on the Island of
Guimaras, which produced good results in bats and land shells.
Collecting was carried on at Capiz on the northern end of the Island,
and also on the Island of Negros and Cebu.

6
So SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Fic. 64.—Typical Nipa house of the natives. (Photograph by Kellers.)

Fic. 65.—Typical rural scene in the Philippine Islands. (Photograph by Kellers. )
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1929 81

All primitive people have a natural history nomenclature, which
is generally unsatisfactory from a scientific standpoint owing to
dialectic divergencies, and the Filipinos are no exception. One of
the peculiar and interesting native names that seemed to be the same
in all of the dialects I encountered was the name “ walo”’ for the
black banded water snake, common in the adjacent waters. The word
; “eight.” The natives

‘

‘walo”’ in Visayan and Tagalog dialects means
have the idea that when a person is bitten by one of these reptiles,
if he does not die in eight minutes, he will live for eight hours; if
still alive after eight hours he will live eight days; after eight days,
eight weeks; and if he is still alive at the end of eight months, he
is out of danger. I endeavored to learn of a case of poisoning by
these snakes but was unsuccessful. Although poisonous, they are
not pugnacious, and when they get tangled in the fishing nets, the
fishermen pick them up by the tail and throw them out into the water.

As the date for the eclipse approached, the natives of the rural
districts and even those of the city became rather nervous about the
event, and made black and white crosses on their houses. I was
invited by the president of the Philippine Central College at Jaro
to address the pupils on the subject of the eclipse and allay their
fears, and the same talk was requested by the superintendent of the
normal school of Hoilo. Three thousand children were reached by
these talks, in which I also told of the work that I was doing in
collecting the animals, birds, and reptiles of the island. As a result
of this, it was neccessary to work late at night for days preserving
and checking over the specimens brought in by the children.

Fish traps along the shore were visited from time to time and
valuable material collected. The markets were visited regularly on
market days, and when the native tradesmen came to know what
I desired, they would often have ready for me quantities of valuable
material, which otherwise it would have taken months to procure.

Much has been written on the Philippine Islands and its people,
but a few impressions may not be out of place. At present the schools
are overcrowded, 50,000 pupils being enrolled last year in the Province
of Iloilo. English is taught in all the schools, but many generations
would be required for it to become the universal language, for the
children on going home after school immediately revert to their native
dialect. Quoting from the introduction of an English-Visayan dic-
tionary compiled by Senor Jose Ma. Cuenco, Ph. D., after his many
years in the profession of teaching, “ I am convinced that many of
my pupils of the advanced English classes have vague, misty ideas
about the most common English words.” After completing the lower
82 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Fic. 67.—Stalactites in caves on Guimaras Island, where many bats and land
shells were collected. (Flashlight photograph by Kellers.)
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1929 83

ae a

Fic. 68.—The fast sailing double outrigger canoes of the Filipinos.
(Photograph by Kellers.)

Fic. 69.—Carabao hauling wood on a primitive sled. This animal can be led
by a native child but hates the Caucasian race. (Photograph by Kellers.)
84 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

grades and going through high school, the young [ilipino’s am-
bition is to go to one of the overtaxed universities and become a
scientist or professional man, especially a lawyer. What benefits this
higher education will have for the Filipinos time alone will tell.

The national drink of the Filipinos is the liquid known as “ tuba.”
It is not as generally thought the fermented milk or water of the
cocoanut, but the fermented sap of the tree. The trees set aside for
tuba extraction are not allowed to produce nuts. The buds are cut
off and the fruit bearing stalks incised, the end being inserted in a
hollow joint of the bamboo called a “ bombon.” In the bottom of
the bombon is placed a very little of the powdered Tonga bark
(Rhizophora longissima) to give the tuba a reddish color and to
counteract the laxative effects of the sap. Fermentation starts almost
immediately after the sap begins to flow. The tuba-gatherer carries
on his back a large joint of bamboo in which to put the sap collected
from the bombon, a swab made from a piece of bamboo to clean the
bombon, a cocoanut shell with the powdered bark, and a crescent
shaped knife to slice the end of the stalk. The tree is tapped twice
a day—once at about sunrise and again in the afternoon; the sap
flows freely for about two hours, then stops until tapped in the
afternoon. The tuba-man easily disposes of his morning and evening
draught, which is palatable and stimulating.

Of the animals of the Philippines the carabao may be considered
the most useful. An unwritten law of the land is that a carabao has
the right of way on all roads, even the railroad trains being stopped
when the engineer sees the carabao crossing the track ahead, for one
never knows what the beast intends to do next.

The National Museum informs me that the collections brought
back by this expedition are of particular value to them in supple-
menting the earlier marine dredgings of the U. S. Fisheries Steamer
Albatross in Philippine and adjacent waters in 1907-10. The work
of that vessel was principally in the deeper waters of the region,
while my collecting, by reason of its field of action, was primarily
littoral in character and rounded out many of the series of Philippine
invertebrate marine life in the national collections. The expedition
illustrates the advantages which may accrue through cooperative
arrangement between two branches of the Government service. The
Museum officials were highly appreciative of the cooperation of the
Navy Department, which resulted in obtaining valuable natural history
material amounting in all to some 14,500 specimens of mammals,
birds, reptiles, fishes, crustaceans, insects, mollusks, and other forms.
EXPEORATIONS OF THE IREVs DAVID C. GRAHAM
IN SZECHUAN, CHINA

By HERBERT FRIEDMANN,
Curator, Division of Birds, U. S. National Museum

For some time the Rev. David C. Graham has been planning a col-
lecting expedition on behalf of the Smithsonian Institution to the
Moupin district in Szechuan. Moupin was first explored zoologically
by the Abbé Armand David, but owing to the difficulties to be over-
come in getting there, and the remoteness of the locality, it has been
visited by but few naturalists since his time. Dr. Graham attempted
to reach this celebrated spot last year, and, for that matter, had planned
to go there several times in the last few years, but each time as he was
about to start, some insurmountable obstacle, such as civil war or
swarms of robbers, prevented his carrying out his designs. It was
therefore a matter of great satisfaction, both to him and to the
Smithsonian Institution, that the summer of 1929 witnessed the frui-
tion of his plans and rewarded his patient efforts with success.

On reading his rough field notes, jotted down faithfully day after
day when wearying marches and general bodily fatigue made writing
an irksome though self imposed task, one is struck with the number
and variety of mishaps, delays, disappointments, and troubles too
numerous to list, that were the almost daily experience of Dr. Graham,
and the successful completion of the trip is therefore a tribute to his
zeal and perseverance in the face of discouragements that would
have turned back many a less experienced traveler in China. Not only
was the trip accompanied by the usual labor troubles with indifferent,
stupid, and ignorant coolies, by petty but nevertheless, serious thefts
of pieces of scientific equipment, but the whole expedition moved
against a threatening background, first of mere angry rumors, later
of more rumbling reverberations of war, the sort of semi-organized
warfare that serves more to render travel dangerous to civilians than
to the contending military groups. A few quotations from Dr.
Graham’s diary may serve to give some insight into the conditions
under which he worked.

Thus, while still at his headquarters at Suifu, some six weeks before
starting for Moupin, he writes that, “ the postmaster -in-
formed me that there is fighting near Su Chow, east of here, and that
there has been fighting at Ichang. Letters are not getting through

8

on
INSTITUTION

SMITHSONIAN

86

(‘uieyeiry Aq ydesrsojzoY )
‘OqII} JOY JO USWOM Op-O}-]JaM 9Yy} Aq UIOM ‘ssoip
A]jSOD puke 9}e10qGeRII AOA B UL PISsoIP SI }fo] JY} 3k
Quo OY, “UsWOM JUTSIIOGe ORY UeNY)— IZ “91

(weyeirny Aq ydeisojoyd )
‘UeUIOM ORIWY UeNYyD jeordéAy YW—'oZ ‘O1Yy

SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1929 87

from Shanghai, so we have received no letters from America for at
least a month . . . . specimens cannot at present be forwarded, but
must await the end of civil war in Szechuan. ....I have gone
over my ammunition, and find . . . . Lam shortest of the kinds which
I need most. . . . . This makes rather scant supplies for the Moupin
trip, but with careful economy we can do with what we have. I will
practically do no shooting until next summer so as to save my am-
munition for the summer collecting.” Three days later (April 28,

1929) he notes that, “. . . . for over a month now, mail has not come
through from Shanghai. It seems certain that neither ammunition nor
photo supplies will reach me in time for the... . trip.”

As the time allotted for the trip was drawing near the difficulties
seemed to increase. On June 6 Dr. Graham writes, “....I-am
building high hopes for the Moupin trip, but today some bad luck
showed its face. I sent a messenger a few days ago to bring in my
aborigine hunter, Yang Fong Tsang. Today he returned. A large
band of robbers is operating on the Yunnan border between the
home of Yang Fong Tsang and Suifu. They have looted several
small towns. There is war between them and the militia. The mes-
senger was unable to get to Yang Fong Tsang, and the latter may
not get to Suifu for the Moupin trip.

“ Another indication of bad luck is that there is drought in Kiating
and at Yachow, which has doubled the price of rice. This will mean
that some of our expenses are higher this summer.”

Finally, after several vicissitudes of luck, good and bad, Yang
Fong Tsang got through to Suifu, and on June 15 the party, con-
sisting of Dr. Graham, five Chinese collectors, a military escort, and
some 20 coolies, left Suifu, expecting to reach Moupin in 11 days.
However, owing to unusual rains which made the paths muddy and
turned what were ordinarily small streams into swollen torrents,
it took eight days to reach Yachow and five more to reach Moupin.

Here the mountains “ . and the hills are covered with forests
and bushes. Nature has a much freer hand here than in most parts

. and... . specimens seem to be more abundant... . . The
town of Moupin is surrounded by high mountains. Near the town
the vegetation is very poor . . . . almost semi-arid. To secure much
here, we will have to get off and work the high mountains that sur-
round the town. The nearby hills are rather badly deforested.” On
the first day in Moupin Dr. Graham had the good fortune to procure,
at the low price of three dollars in gold, a skin of the giant panda,
a very rare large mammal unrepresented in the collections of the
National Museum. It was however not a perfect specimen, as it
8s SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Fic. 72.—Trees and mountains near Suifu, Szechuan, China. The
/ . a . ~ x
looking south near Tseo-Jia-Geo. (Photograph by Graham. )

Fic. 73.—Mouth of ancient Chinese cave, at Huang La Chi, Min River.
(Photograph by Graham.)
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1929 rXe)

lacked the claws, ears, and tail, but it was very welcome nevertheless.
The giant panda is an animal distantly related to the bears and the
raccoons. It is about the size of a small American black bear, but is
remarkable for its color pattern. It is almost entirely white but has
a large, black “saddle”? mark on the upper back, black ears, and a
heavy black ring around the eyes, giving it a be-goggled appearance.
Very few specimens have ever been brought back to museums.
Graham also procured specimens of the small panda, black and rich
russet in color, and of the black monkey, both of which are very rare
in collections,

Finding the immediate vicinity of Moupin rather disappointing,
Dr. Graham decided to go to Yao Chi, a four days’ march from there.
The road to Yao Chi is exceedingly steep and rough, and the loads
previously carried on poles resting on the shoulders of two coolies
had to be rearranged and carried on the men’s backs. The day after
leaving Moupin the party “. . . . had a great deal of trouble with
the military escort. The first change of soldiers occurred about eight
o'clock. We were to have ten soldiers, but were given only three, and
were delayed fully two hours. The guns are muzzle-loading, and en-
tirely innocent of any sights. The handles are rude, home-made
affairs. We now have six soldiers with such guns, one of the soldiers
being a boy about 12 years old. We were promised a bigger escort,
but the soldiers failed to show up. One well-armed man could easily
defeat the whole lot.”

Ten days of hard, steep climbing after leaving Moupin brought
the party well up in the mountains, their camp being at an elevation of
13,400 feet in the midst of forests of rhododendron and fir. Even
here, in what one might expect to be uninhabitated country, the ex-
pedition was not able to work in peace. Graham makes the following
entry in his note book, “. . .. I collected on a mountain east of
Yao Chi and would have gone on to a higher and better hunting
ground but the territory was infested with robbers. Today we almost
literally stepped into a robbers’ nest. I had hoped to work here two
whole days and three nights but the robbers are too near, and we
must clear out . . . . tomorrow morning.”

Going somewhat lower down, Graham came across, for the first
time, fresh tracks of the giant panda, one of the chief objects of the
trip. The ‘‘ white bear ” as he calls this animal, however, eluded him.
but later on he purchased two more skins from Chinese hunters. Col-
lecting of all sorts was carried on assiduously and the specimens re-
ceived at the National Museum consist of mammals, birds, reptiles,
amphibians, fish, and especially of insects. The butterflies and moths
form, in themselves, a notable accession to the national collections.
go SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Fic. 74.—Opium poppy fields in bloom in western Szechuan, China.
(Photograph by Graham. )

WAG! SPREE AAT TP
i i y

¢ My (Zé)
DLE Ne OF
} { u EV, yon
if tee 5

Fic. 75.—A Chuan Miao family near Tseo-Jia-Geo, south of Suifu, Szechuan,
China. (Photograph by Graham.)

SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1929 gl

Fic. 76.—A Chinese memorial arch built across the road near Shi Kiang,
Yunnan Province, China. (Photograph by Graham. )

Fic. 77.—View of the city of Moupin, Szechuan, China, looking eastward.
(Photograph by Graham. )
G2 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

The way back was just as arduous and strenuous as the journey out.
The following incident is typical of the return march. “. .. . Last
night there was a very hard rain, amounting almost to a cloudburst.

. . . This morning I heard that a creek ahead of us had washed
away its bridge. There was no crossing this creek without a bridge. I
said that we had a carpenter with us, and so we would build a bridge,
and ordered all the coolies to bring along their loads and help. They
were so confident that we couldn’t build a bridge that they didn’t
come. It was five li from .... where they were to the creek, and
they thought they would have to carry back their loads to the inn again
for the night. One of the coolies had the carpenter's saw. Although
he was especially ordered to bring the saw along, he did not come.
With no tool but the Smithsonian hunter’s hatchet, the carpenter and I
cut down trees and built a bridge across that roaring stream so
we ... . made our full stage today. Not a nail went into that bridge.
It was done in a comparatively short time. The trees that made the
foundation were tied tightly together by ropes of tree bark made by
the carpenter. ....’ Two days later Dr. Graham got back to
Moupin in the midst of a steady rain. The next morning (July 20) he
left for Gan Yang Ba where he collected for four days, returning to
Moupin on July 25. Inasmuch as Dr. Graham had to return to his
mission school in August, the Moupin expedition had to be ended
abruptly.

There has not yet been time to study the material collected by
Dr. Graham, and the results of the trip cannot therefore be evaluated
at this time. Many rare and desirable things were obtained, including
two genera of mammals new to the museum, as well as many bird
skeletons and skins. This brief account may well close with a quota-
tion from Dr. Graham’s notes, written immediately after the end of
the journey. “In a way the Moupin collecting trip is a failure. In
a way it is a real and genuine success. The Moupin district is too
vast and rich to cover in so short a time. In the time available. I
could have done better if I had known the country intimately. This
trip is in a way a successful survey.”
EX PLORATTONS OF DR HUGH M. SMIFH IN SIAM

By HERBERT FRIEDMANN,
Curator, Division of Birds, U. S. National Musewim

During the past year Dr. Hugh M. Smith, director of the fisheries
of Siam, has continued collecting in his spare time for the National
Museum and, as in previous years, the material gathered has been of
great interest and value. The specimens received at the National
Museum this year total over 4,500, representing most of the major
groups of animals and including some 400 plants as well. Among the
more important lots are some 59 mammals, 663 bird skins and 10
skeletons, 205 reptiles and amphibians, 1,643 insects, 1,300 mollusks,
and 158 miscellaneous invertebrates, especially crustaceans. The total
collections of Siamese birds sent in by Dr. Smith now amount to
about 3,000 specimens, one of the largest ornithological collections
ever made in that country, while the mollusks received comprise one
of the most important oriental collections of that group in the National
Museum. The mammals collected are notable for the number of
squirrels and primitive tree-shrews represented.

Inasmuch as no diary or photographs have been received from
Doctor Smith, it is difficult to construct an orderly account of his
travels, and until such data are forthcoming, the best we can do is to
quote from his letters in chronological sequence. Writing from
Bangkok on February 10, Doctor Smith announces the sending
of a large shipment, especially of birds, “. . .. from the moun-
tains of northern Siam, and some from Doi Angka (or Doi Intanon),
the highest Siamese mountain, where no previous zoological col-
lecting had been done. Another lot is from Doi Sutep, near
Chiengmai. ¥

The latter mountain rises as an isolated peak from a flat plain about
six miles west of Chiengmai. The first 1,500 feet of the slopes are
sparsely covered with scrubby trees, but, at 1,700 feet this dry belt
is replaced by dense, green forest.

“Tam just about to leave for a long trip to northeastern Siam, where
practically no collecting has been done in any zoological group. I go
by rail to Korat, and thence by easy stages to the Mekong at Nong
Kai and Vien Cheng.”

Mr. Rodolphe Meyer de Schauensee has recently made two col-

lecting trips to northern Siam in the interests of the Academy of
93
94

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Fic. 78.—Long-tailed drongo,
Dissemurus paradiseus.
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, I929 95

Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, and worked in the same general
region as Doctor Smith. In response to an inquiry of mine, he has
kindly sent me the following notes on the country.

“The whole of the part of northern Siam known as the Siamese
Laos country is composed of flat circular plains, each divided from the
other by mountain ranges, rising generally to an altitude of about
4,000 feet. The highest peak in Siam is Doi Angka, 8,400 feet.
Streams are plentiful and lakes scarce. Bamboo is plentiful along the
courses of these streams, and tall ‘ elephant grass’ grows in all the
abandoned clearings. Teak wood is abundant on the lower slopes of the
mountains. However, I have never seen many birds in the teak for-
ests. Trees on the slopes of the mountains to about 1,500 feet are small
and the ground very dry and often stony. Above this the evergreen
belt occurs, large trees and heavy undergrowth, in which bird life is
most abundant. Hornbills, babblers, fairy bluebirds, nuthatches,
bulbuls, make their home here, White-handed gibbons (/Hvylobates
lar) are extraordinarily plentiful.

,

“This evergreen area reaches solidly to 4,000 feet where it gives
way to a more open forest, carpeted with grass about two feet high,
and the trees are smaller and covered with moss. Magnolias of the
genus Michelia are very common. Sunbirds (Aecthopyga) are always
to be seen in them. Pine forests begin at about 4,500 feet, but birds
seemed to be extremely rare in them. The only thing I recall ever hav-
ing seen there is a drongo (Chaptia). Pheasants and partridges are
common and certain babblers (especially Sibiinac) are confined to
these top slopes.”

Doctor Smith explains that as he was traveling on official business
for the Siamese Government, his time for general collecting in the
mountains was not as much as he desired, especially on Doi Angka,
where he felt that he might have gotten birds new to his collection
every day fora month or more. It is to be hoped that he will be able
to make another and more prolonged stay there as his first visit re-
sulted in the discovery of several interesting birds new to science.

On June 21 Doctor Smith writes that he plans another trip to the
north in November, this time to the Kuhn Tan Mountains and the
region north of Chiengmai. ‘“ Tomorrow I am going to Singora and

do some collecting . .. . in that part of the peninsula where
I, at least, have not collected birds.” From a letter written on August
19 we learn that Doctor Smith’s native collector had just returned
DLO a mountainous section northeast of Bangkok. He had
a narrow escape from a huge wild boar which charged him while he
was stalking some fire-back pheasants. The boar was not stopped by

7
SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Fic. 79.—Paradise flycatcher,
Terpsiphone paradist.

ane
Fic. 80.—The largest and smallest of Siamese woodpeckers. The
woodpeckers reach their climax in Southeastern Asia, about 20
species being known from Siam. The large bird is Lichtenstein’s
woodpecker, Mulleripicus p. harterti; the small one is a piculet,
pee a. reichenowi. The birds are one-third natural size in the

gure.

97
cs SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

charges of buckshot and No. 8 shot at short range, and the collector
had to discard his gun and defend himself with his knife. After being
chased around a tree for some time, the Dyak was finally able to get
in a knife thrust, and the boar left, taking the knife with him.”

Shortly after this, Doctor Smith sent his collector to a wild and
isolated mountain region east of Bandon. On September 16 he writes
that, ““. . . . a small collection is now in hand from a densely-wooded
mountainous region southeast of Bandon in the peninsula. The place
where the collecting was done is 17 miles inland, and the locality may
be designated Sichol or Seechol (pronounced Seechon). . .

“Tam going this week to the . . . . mountainous region close to
the Tenasserim border. Very little zoological collecting has been done
there... .. During the coming winter, I am planning to make
another trip to the mountains in northern Siam—this time north of
Chiengmai.”

It is rather premature to attempt any generalizations, as the ex-
tensive Siamese material now available for study has not yet been ade-
quately investigated. The avifauna of Siam may, however, now be
definitely said to be more closely related to that of India on the west,
rather than to that of Indo China and the Malay States on the east,
although, as might be expected from the intermediate geographic
position of Siam, it shows many features of both.

The last lot of birds received from Dr. Smith contains several
species previously unrecorded from Siam and a number of others new
to the national collections, the most striking of which are a large
ground cuckoo, Carpococcyx renauldi and a large horned owl with a
powerful, heavy bill, Wuhua nipalensis.
EX<PLORATONS, FOR] MOLEUSKS IN THE
WEST INDIES

By PAUL BARTSCH,
Curator, Division of Mollusks, U. S. National Museum

In continuation of the West Indian explorations for land mollusks
begun last year under the auspices of the Walter Rathbone Bacon
Scholarship Fund, I embarked on June 12, 1929, on the U. S. naval
transport Kittery at Hampton Roads, Virginia, for West Indian
ports. Through the assistance of Commandant C. S. McWorther of
the U. S. Naval Station at Guantanamo, Cuba, | was provided with
two splendid mounts and an able guide ready for an overland journey
upon our arrival June 17, to Boca del Yateras, one of the classic type
localities of Gundlach and Wright. Its inaccessibility has kept it from
visitation by other naturalists since their days of collecting, and I felt
that this opportunity which brought me within some 17 miles of the
place as the crow flies must not be missed.

As the crow flies however, is not the method of eastern Cuban
travel today, and shortly before midnight, when we again arrived at
the naval station, we had covered 67 miles on slender trails over hills
and dales midst thorn brush and palms frequently completely choked
with epiphytes. Our weariness was offset by the knowledge that our
kit contained the topotypes of the land shells which we have wanted
for a long time.

On June 19 we reached Port au Prince, Haiti. Here Dr. S. S. Cook,
Service D’Hygiene, carried me over our collecting grounds of long
ago and gave me an opportunity to see what changes had taken place
in the Cul de Sac region since 1917. Dr. Freeman, Director General
of the Service Technique, arranged for an automobile which during
the next two days carried me through the valley of the Artebonite
northward through the magnificent Cibao range of mountains to
Cape Haitien over the newly completed highway that connects these
two ports. This trip carried me over territory in Hispaniola not pre-
viously visited by me and enabled me to make collections at many new
stations from which no material had reached our Museum before. I
regained the Aittery on June 21 and two days later arrived at San
Juan, Porto Rico.

June 21 to July 10 were spent hunting for a suitable sailing vessel
which could be hired to reach the islands that form the rim of the

99
TOO SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Fic. 81.—The schooner Guillermito, which carried us around the rim of the
Caribbean.

Fic. 82.—A shore view on the northeast end of Porto Rico. The coconut
trees contributed to our catch of mollusks.
SMITIISONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1929 TO!

Caribbean Sea. The visitation of last year’s destructive hurricane
had materially reduced the number of schooners and those not lost
were mostly securely hauled high and dry in protected places to
render them safe against another blow. Then too, few skippers cared
to visit what most of them termed the birthplace of hurricanes during
the hurricane season—the wet season about to begin. It should be
remembered that the rainy season is the only time when successful
land mollusk collecting may be undertaken for during the rest of the
year these animals estivate, tucked away in rock crevices or holes in
trees or even buried in the ground from which they may be obtained
in small numbers and with great difficulty only—while in the wet
season they are out and moving about in the open and _ therefore
easily captured. Thanks to the good offices of the Captain of the
Port and Senor Moreno of San Juan, I finally chartered the schooner
Guillermito trom Sr. Tomas Bonano, its captain and owner, for a
two-and-one-half-month-cruise.

The fact that local and federal Government officials were actively
on the hunt for a suitable vessel left me free to a considerable extent
to do collecting in the eastern part of Porto Rico—territory that I had
not thoroughly explored on my visit to the island in 1921. Thanks
to the help of Dr. William H. Hoffman of the School of Tropical
Medicine who joined me on many of these expeditions and placed his
car at my disposal, I was able to examine the entire eastern mountain
complex including even a visit to the summit of El Yunque. I was able
to explore many of the limestone hills of the north range between San
Juan and Arecibo, all of which yielded an abundance of interesting
and important land mollusks.

July 3 and 4 were spent in an exploration of the island of Vieques
where deforestation, cattle grazing and other agricultural pursuits
have wiped out most of its mollusk fauna, leaving only those species
that are capable of existing under the conditions produced by man.

The conditioning and provisioning of the Guillermito being com-
pleted, we set sail for the islands to the south. Our force consisted
of Dr. William H. Hoffman and his assistant Mr. J. Oliver, Capt.
Bonano, mate, two sailors and a cook.

After a brief stop at Culebra Island I spent one day exploring St.
Thomas Island, and on July 13 we came to anchor in Hurricane
Harbor at the east end of St. John. The next day I climbed to the
summit of Mt. Bordeaux where, after passing out of the lowland
torrid cactus-fringe zone, I found very good collecting in the tropical
forest, particularly near the summit where the Bay Rum tree
(Amomis caryophyllata) grows, from whose leaves the aromatic oils
102 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

used in the manufacture of the famous Virgin Island bay rum are
distilled.

On July 15 we explored the north end of St. Croix Island, which
failed to yield much material for our efforts. Most of this island, like
Vieques, is under intense cultivation which spells death for the native
fauna.

Our next anchorage was Road Harbor, Tortola, which we reached
after many tacks. An exploration of the stand of virgin forest on the
summit of Mt. Sage yielded a splendid representation of the local
molluscan fauna as well as unforgettable glimpses of West Indian
scenery. At noon on July 19 we reached Long Bay, Virgin Gorda
Island, a volcanic island that 1s as dry as a bone, covered with thorn
brush, cactus, and stinging vines that form an almost impenetrable
tangle; every step was a step of torture, and little to reward one for
it. Most of our shells were found among the tangle at the base of
bromeliads or orchids that covered the summit of rock piles in the
highest reaches of the mountain.

On San Martin Island we chartered an automobile and drove to
Grand Case Bay, collecting at suitable places along the way and
exploring the high hill bounding the bay, and later the western end of
the island. After a short stay at Rendezvous Bay on the southwest
side of Anguilla we next visited San Bartholomew July 23 and day-
light of July 24 found us heading for the white summits of its moun-
tains that beckoned from the harbor and promised limestone and its as-
sociated rich mollusk fauna. But alas! the punishment of spine and
thorn was not rewarded; the white peaks proved a delusion and a
snare—they were due to a covering of white lichens infesting them.
On St. Eustachius I climbed the extinct voleano which rises sharply
behind Orangetown to almost 2,000 feet and whose extreme summit
and interior is clothed with virgin forest. While collecting proved not
of the best—it never is in volcanic territory—I nevertheless was able to
secure a representative series of specimens before darkness stopped
our efforts.

On July 25 we anchored off Basseterre, the capital of St. Cristopher.
On a mountain rising behind the port, I followed a babbling brook,
climbing over many a cataract while a tropical jungle of giant trees
and a tangle of ferns and vines overarched the stream and shut out
the sky. It was the first real glimpse so far encountered of dense dark
tropical vegetation, and its tropic aspect was enhanced by the presence
of chattering monkeys overhead, whose curiosity was aroused by our
presence. Groups of mollusks not met heretofore were present here,
among them a large Planorbis, probably guadalupensis, the intermedi-
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1929 103
ate host of the blood fluke, Schistosoma mansoni that produces the
dreaded malady known to the medical fraternity as bilharziosis. This
mollusk simply swarmed in the little stream, hundreds of them occur-
ring in each little pool. Since the African gray monkey which has been
here mentioned has been found to share with man the honor of being a
host to Schistosoma, it fairly made one’s blood run cold to think of
the chance of infecting all the people bathing in or drinking water
from this source. Efforts should be made to eliminate the monkeys
and thus prevent stream pollution by them. Likewise efforts should
be made to exterminate the mollusks.

The climb of Mt. Misery (4,314 ft.) on July 26 from the Belleview
estate was a trying one, the slender trail having been wiped out by
last year’s hurricane, every step in the higher reaches requiring the
use of the machete. From a scenic standpoint it was wonderful, every
prospect being a joy; from the molluscan viewpoint it proved quite
poor ; tree- and bush-dweller and a few leafmold-inhabiting species
furnishing the bulk of our catch.

On July 27 we visited Nevis which proved to be one of our best col-
lecting grounds, yielding thousands of specimens of land shells of
quite a host of species; even fresh water mollusks, Planorbis and
Physa, occurred abundantly in small pools.

On Montserrat I gathered quite a large number of land mollusks
on the mountain side and a lot of fresh water things from a small
stream at its base, and at 9:30 p. m. we left for Guadeloupe Island,
stopping at Grande Terre, the island abutting Guadeloupe on its east
side. This is a recently elevated limestone bank teeming with land
mollusks, their abundance reminding one of the Cuban magote fauna.

A startling feature was the water supply of the southeastern part—
usually funnel-like depressions, natural or scooped out of the soil
which are filled by rains during the wet season and gradually become
contracted as the use of the water by man and beast and evaporation
diminishes their contents. These pools are stocked with aquatic
plants and harbor a good assemblage of freshwater mollusks, the
Apple snail, Physa, and Planorbis; of the latter several species were
most abundant among which is Planorbis guadalupensis which occurs
in such prodigious numbers in most of these pools that the dead shells
form a veritable pavement on its shores.

What dangers the people wading in these ponds or drinking their
polluted and unfiltered water may run can only be determined by a
medical examination of the natives, the setting for Bilharzia being
perfect.
10-4 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Fic. 83.—Planorbis guadeloupensis, the intermediate host of the blood fluke
Schistosoma mansoni, which produces the dreaded disease known as_ bil-
harziosis, from the island of St. Christopher.

Fic. 84.—A glimpse of Santa Lucia from the sea to the south of the island,
showing its extremely rugged character.
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, I929 105

July 31 was devoted to Guadeloupe; the splendid roads made it
possible to easily reach Basse Terre from Pointe a Pitre, and while
much of the island is under cultivation, patches remain along the
roadside here and there where remnants of the fauna are still to be
found. Then too, many of its mountains are so steep that agricultural
pursuits are more than difficult and this lends shelter for their main-
tenance. The scant fauna, both as far as species and specimens are
concerned, was due to the character of the soil which here is purely
voleanic and forms a marked contrast with the abundance of forms
on Grande Terre where lime is present. While I did not reach the
summit of Soufriere, the highest peak of this wonderfully cut up
island, I did climb sufficiently high to secure representative material
from the mountain fastnesses.

August I and 2 were devoted to the Saints; St. Paul yielded a
goodly catch of bush-dwellers; St. George’s Island proved dry and
barren; St. Peter showed quite a fauna on one spot where a bit of
elevated coral reef remained half way up to the summit.

On Maria Galante Island we found a duplication of Grand ‘Terre
conditions and an equally abundant mollusk fauna. Maria Galante is
evidently a bit of the same uplift which caused the emergence of Grand
Terre from the sea; not only did the land yield mollusks in abundance
but the streams were equally productive.

The island of Dominica proved to be another of the tortured
volcanic products just then blessed with much rain. All the mountain
peaks wore their cloud caps and collecting had to be done in rain gear.
An auto road winds picturesquely over the mountains to the east coast
and along this our collecting was done in suitable localities. The piles
of rubbish under the neatly raked Cacao groves were particularly rich
in mollusks.

At Rosseau we explored the Botanic Gardens, a splendid collecting
ground, and made a survey of the beautiful valley behind the town
as well as the elevated reefs of Morne Bruce above the Botanic
Gardens and Morne Daniel at Telegraph Hill.

Sleepy winds gave us the chance to admire the north and west shore
of Martinique on August 7 more than we really cared for. Viewed
from the north side the eastern profile enjoys a slow gradual slope.
The contributions of Mt. Pelees’ last effort have as yet not been cut up
and carried to sea by wind and weather. The north and west sides are
chewed up as badly as Dominica. The afternoon was spent in examin-
ing the bold shores of the Bay of Fort de France and yielded little.

August 8 however, was one of the most marvellous days of the
entire trip. An automobile carried us from Fort de France north-
106 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Fic. 85.—On the summit of Mount St. Andrews, island of St. Vincent,
showing the wonderful development of epiphytic vegetation, as well as a
tangle of ferns. A splendid collecting ground for mollusks.

Fre. 86.—Mineral Springs, on the northeast end of the island of Granada,
where we found a rich South American fresh-water fauna of mollusks.
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1929 107

ward toward St. Pierre up and up around many a hairpin curve, wind-
ing in and out and twisting about an endless number of turns which
taxed the splendid driving capacities of our chauffeur to their limit.
Our drive to St. Pierre was magnificent, every turn a picture; the
mountains so steep that on a rainy day like this it is almost impossible
to get a foothold. But even on these steeps agriculture is being pur-
sued which leaves little of the native fauna. The extreme tops of the
mountains are treeless, but covered with brush and grass and that
awful pest the staghorn fern which ever and anon comes down to the
road. The timber creeps up the gullies, and splendid tree ferns and
slender palms lend an unusual charm to these mountain vistas. In
sight of St. Pierre we turned eastward and in a roundabout way com-
pleted our swing back to the capital by night.

On our way to Santa Lucia August 9, we stopped off Diamond Hill,
Martinique, and made a collection of shells on its timbered summit.
After exploring parts of Santa Lucia and St. Vincent islands, we
then set sail for the Grenadines. Between St. Vincent and Grenada
there are scattered quite a number of islands and islets and rocks
which are collectively called the Grenadines. These are of course of
interest because they too have served as stepping stones in the north-
ward migration of the flora and fauna. I visited and collected on
the following islands: Bequia, Quatres, Petit Nevis, Mustique,
Baliceaux, Little Mustique, Cannouan, Mayero, Union, Petit Mar-
tinique, Petit San Vincent, Carriacou, Salina, Frigate, Ronde, Dia-
mond, and Caille. On each of these islands all possible efforts were
made to secure a representative lot of mollusks. Our labors were
crowned with varying degrees of success this being largely in inverse
proportion to the amount of cultivation and deforestation to which
these islands have been subjected. One very interesting and instruc-
tive feature was the finding of a half-grown Physa in a pool near the
summit of North Hill, Carriacou, in a grass-grown depression filled
by recent rains, evidently carried here by some wader. A spotted
sand-piper was fishing in the same place. The study of the distribu-
tion of fresh water mollusks must take the migrating shore birds
under consideration as factors for they undoubtedly play an impor-
tant role in their distribution.

We arrived in St. George Harbor, Grenada, Sunday evening,
August 25, and remained here until August 28. The splendid automo-
bile roads everywhere and the kind helpfulness of the officials enabled
us to obtain a fine collection of land shells from many stations. The
most startling find however, was in a small stream at Mineral Springs
in the northeast part of the island, where a little stream rich in lime
108 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Fic. 87.—In the deep forest of Trinidad, showing a primitive sawmill in action.
/ Q

Fic. 88—Home life on Margarita Island, where the cactus and its spines
serve as clothesline and clothespins.

SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1929 10g

salts supplied an abundance of Ampullaria, Marisa, Planorbis and
Paludestrina; these specimens being present from the source of the
little stream to where it merged with the acid water of a larger stream
coming from the volcanic mountain side, a distance of about the
length of two city blocks, when they completely disappeared, being
unable to maintain themselves in such an unfavorable environment.
This alkaline water was doubtless also stocked by migrating waders
and birds carrying the eggs or young of these mollusks on their feet
probably from Trinidad, the nearest place where they occur.

September 1 to September 4 we spent on Trinidad, the largest and
most beautiful of all the Lesser Antilles, stopping now in the lowlands,
now on the summit of its high mountains exploring pools and streams
and even the puddles in the asphalt pit that is pavine United States
streets. Thanks to the officials of the Imperial College of Agriculture
and their friends, particularly Professor F. W. Urich, every moment
of our time was used to the best advantage. Trinidad is such a large
island with such a diversity of habitats that a month of collecting
would be hardly enough to harvest its possibilities. It is to be hoped
that this will be done in the future by the students of the Imperial
College of Agriculture under the wise guidance of Professor Urich.
Here as elsewhere we found the forest fauna a scanty one, but where
limestone was present an abundance of species and specimens was
assured.

Having completed the southward swing we headed for Margarita
Island off of the Venezuelan coast and spent September 7 and 8
collecting in this dry and bleak habitat, which, in spite of its unfavor-
able appearance, yielded a host of land mollusks and other things,
the next island, Orchilla, however, yielding not a single land shell.

We therefore promptly set sail for El Roque, a collection of islands
and islets west of Orchilla, and devoted part of a day to a careful
search of its tall main island at the western end of the group. Here, as
on Orchilla, land mollusks were conspicuous by their absence, but the
place was swarming with lizards, and birds were equally abundant in
its mangrove swamps; we added a goodly number of each to our
collections.

To give even a half-way satisfactory description of the next islands
visited, Bonaire, Curacao, and Aruba, would require more space than
is available—suffice it to say that our visit to them yielded among other
land shells, a handsome lot of Cerion, whose presence here is one of the
most fascinating problems of geographic distribution in the whole
field of mollusks, their nearest relatives being in Porto Rico.
110 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Fic. 89.—The seabeach and shore line on the north side of the island Orchilla.

Fic. 90—Iguana hunting on the island of El Roque.
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1929 a

Fic. 91—A cactus fence on the island of Bonaire. In the protection of such
fences many land mollusks are to be found.

Fic. 92.—Cerion uva on the base of a tree on the island of Bonaire, showing
the abundance of these mollusks.

8
LiZ SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

The morning of September 19 saw us under way for the home
port of the Guillermito, San Juan, Porto Rico, which we reached on
September 24, completing a cruise—or may I say an inspection tour
or collecting trip—which my hopes had let me long for, but which my
fondest dreams had scarcely permitted me to believe possible of ac-
complishment within the time allotted. Great credit for this is due
to Captain Bonano and his crew. The collections of mollusks obtained
are sufficient to enable me to give an adequate treatment of them in the
future. Their study in the field makes intelligible the problem of their

distribution.

For the opportunity of making this study I am greatly indebted to
the officials of the Smithsonian Institution and I am equally grateful
to our Department of State for its efforts on my behalf with foreign
governments, and to the representatives of those governments in the
various islands for their unvarying courtesy and help.

COLLECRING, RELIES IN NORTHERN EUROPE
By j2 Me AEDRICH:

Associate Curator, Division of Insects, U. S. National Museum

Since the land masses of the Old and New Worlds come close
together at Bering Strait, and did in fact once connect there; and
since the climatic conditions are on the whole very similar in the
northern part of both hemispheres, it is not surprising that the animals
should have a marked similarity in North America and Eurasia in the
northern regions. A long list could be made of cases where the same
species of plant or animal occurs in both continents, as determined by
examining specimens from both; but lack of material for comparison,
especially in the smaller forms, leaves a great deal of uncertainty as to
the identity. It was to provide such material 1n as many cases as pos-
sible that I undertook in the past summer to carry out the project here
described. The investigation of the problem through the numerous
species of flies promises more interesting results than would be ob-
tained in other orders of insects, for the simple reason that the flies
are so plentiful in the north, having their region of greatest abundance
approximately between 50 and 60 degrees north latitude ; while all the
other large orders dwindle greatly in that cold climate and have their
greatest numbers farther south. Many American species of flies have
been described without the proper examination of related Old World
forms, and in some cases they will no doubt be found to be identical
with the latter. The problem will not be completely solved for many
years, but even a small collection of a few thousand Old World speci-
mens will afford opportunity to make a little progress in it. Hence
my object was to obtain as many flies as possible in the time available.

Before beginning this work, however, I spent considerable time in
the examination of the type specimens of American flies in the British
Museum and in the important private collection of Mr. J. E. Collin
at Newmarket, England; and after my collecting trip was finished I
returned by way of Stockholm, Copenhagen, and Paris, where muse-
ums long established contain additional type material of importance.

I reached Bergen, Norway, by boat from Newcastle, England, on
July to. As I did not leave on the northward journey until evening
of the following day, a little time was available for collecting flies here.
Taking the funicular railway to its terminus a thousand feet above the
sea on the stony mountain against which the town is built, I walked

113
114 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

along a country road ascending still higher among small trees. The
weather was too wet at first for collecting, as flies must be kept
dry ; but in the course of an hour or two the mists became thinner and
the sun came out. Flies were abundant, and most of those collected
could be readily identified as belonging to species which are known to
occur also in North America. Some require further study.

After two nights and a day of travel by boat up the Norwegian
coast, the town of Trondhjem was reached. This is a city of 55,000
population, situated in latitude 63 degrees 26 minutes, or a little
farther north than the northern extremity of Labrador. I arrived here

pre
AXEVAAG.I978 -UEWERERET T/ GET nw Nt Weg. BERGEN

Fic. 93.—Bergen, Norway, looking north.

July 13, and remained two days, but the weather was continuously
rainy and cold, so I could not collect.

I then left by rail and proceeded eastward into Sweden, continuing
in the same latitude. The railroad climbs the low mountain range,
entering Sweden near the divide. The first Swedish town, Storlien,
was where I intended to stop, but on account of the higher altitude it
was even colder and rainier than Trondhjem; so | continued eastward,
changing from the national railway of Norway to that of Sweden, and
stopped at Are, a small tourist place on the river of the same name.
The Are River widens into a lake here, from which the slopes of the
low mountains rise so abruptly that there is only a little land that can be
cultivated, close to the lake, and even this is very steep. On account

SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1929 1t5

of the cold climate, agriculture consists mainly in raising cattle and
hay, and the hardier garden vegetables.

On my arrival in Are the weather was still cold and damp. The
Grand Hotel had the steam heat on, an unusual thing in Europe and
most acceptable to an American. For two days there was but slight
improvement in the weather, but I found under trees some spots
dry enough to collect flies, and accumulated a satisfactory number.
Then the weather cleared, and for the following three days the col-
lecting was remarkably good, there being thousands of flies on foliage
and flowers. Sorting and pinning the specimens took up considerable
time; on the first fair morning I got so many flies in sweeping for

Fic. 94.—Are, Sweden, looking southeast.

two minutes on flowers of dill that it took an hour to sort them and
pin all worth keeping.

On my fifth and last day in Are I ascended the mountain Are-
skutan, just back of the railroad station. This mountain is of unusual
interest to the entomologist because Zetterstedt, nearly one hundred
years ago, collected flies here and has recorded many species from
Areskutan in his series of volumes called Diptera Scandinaviae.
The altitude of the railroad station is about 1,500 feet, while that of
the summit 1s about 5,000 feet. The part of the climb of most interest
to the entomologist is the first thousand feet above the station, or up to
about 2,500 feet. This is mostly through the spruce zone, which
covers the slopes from 1,500 to 2,300 feet, stopping quite abruptly
at this level and being replaced by birch, which continues about
16 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Fic. 96.—Looking northwest up Are River, Are, Sweden.

Fic. 97.—Looking south across lake at Are, Sweden. Spruce and birch
zones on mountain side.

SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1929 7

I'iG. 99.—Above tree zone, Areskutan, Sweden, July 19, 1920.

Fic. 100.—Oestersund, Sweden, from island in lake.
118 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

300 feet higher, beyond which there are no trees and very little
vegetation of any kind. The zones of vegetable growth are sub-
stantially what we would call in North America the Canadian (spruce),
the Hudsonian (birch), and the Arctic. The flies were most numer-
ous in the first named, and there were very few in the third.

Leaving Are on the evening of July 20, I continued my journey
to Oestersund, the capital of the province of Jemtland, 75 miles east
and a little south. Here I remained two days to collect, having good
weather and getting a good series of flies, many different from those
found in Are, The surrounding country is level, and there are no
mountains close by. The city, which has something like 15,000 popu-
lation, is situated on a large lake, and is connected by a bridge with a
rocky island on which a part of the town is built. My collecting was
mostly on this island and on the lake shore north of the city. The
gentle slopes extending back for about a mile from the lake shore
are well drained and are all in cultivation, hay and barley being the
main crops. There is a dense agricultural population close to the lake,
but farther back on the level the country is boggy and unfit for
agriculture. The farm buildings are all of wood and well painted,
usually red with white trimmings. The red-tiled roofs however pre-
sent a quite different appearance from the shingled ones of the United
States. This is in a latitude corresponding to the northern edge of
Labrador, in North America, but not quite so far north as Fair-
banks, Alaska.

After two days in Oestersund, I went to Stockholm, Copenhagen,
and Paris for more study of American flies in the museums, and
sailed for New York from Cherbourg, on August 17.

BOM MC Al ee EORA ON TIN AMAZONIAN PERU
JNINID) JeiReevAUe:

By EEE SWiORD Ee PS Kiel:
Associate Curator, Division of Plants, U. S. National Museum

The plant life of the eastern slopes of the Andes Mountains and the
adjacent lowlands of the upper Amazon and its tributaries is very
scantily represented in the U. S. National Herbarium. Most of the
collecting in that area has been done by European botanists, as Spruce,
Poeppig, Ule, and Tessmann, and their collections are deposited in
European herbaria. In this region grow plants of great medicinal and
general commercial value, which are coming more and more into the
life of the people of all countries as the territory is being opened up by
highways and railroads, the improvement of river navigation, and the
airplane. Requests are continually being received by botanical institu-
tions for precise information regarding these plants, but in the absence
of adequate material in their study collections answers to such queries
necessarily are often meagre and unsatisfactory.

With a view to obtaining a general collection of the plants of the
eastern slopes of the Andes of Peru and of the eastern and north-
eastern parts of that country known as the montana, an expedition was
sent into the field by the Smithsonian Institution in March, 1929. The
party, consisting of Mr. Albert C. Smith, Mr. William J. Dennis, and
myself, reached Lima April 9, arrangements then being made for
proceeding to the montana with the least possible delay in the high
mountains. Fairly large collections, however, were made at three
points in the cordilleras: Rio Blanco, at 11,500 feet altitude, on the
remarkable railroad which, starting at sea-level, crosses the Andes at
15,600 feet elevation, and follows the Mantaro Valley to the important
city of Huancayo ; Tarma, on the main route of travel between Lima
and the montana; and at the base of the glaciers on Mount Juntay,
15,000 feet above sea-level. On our visit to this interesting isolated
snow-mountain we were accompanied by Mr. Paul Ledig, director of
the Magnetic Observatory of the Carnegie Institution, our headquar-
ters at Huancayo.

At Huanta, a town several miles south of Huancayo, in the Depart-
ment of Ayacucho, we outfitted for our first trip to the montana. To
hire mules was impossible, so the subprefect of the province sent sol-
diers into the surrounding country to commandeer beasts and equip-

119
120 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

te
eo

=. a Pein

Fic. to1—Market day at Huancayo. In existence at the time of the
Spanish Conquest, this market still attracts Indians from a wide area every
Sunday. The gay dress of the people and the bright handmade blankets on
sale give color to the scene.

Fic. 102.—Mount Juntay, near Huancayo. The peaks of this snow-covered
mountain, over 17,000 feet above sea-level, can be seen from many points
in the Mantaro Valley. The hardy llama, with its dense coat of wool, alone of
beasts-of-burden can exist at these highest altitudes.

SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1929 [2]

ment. And a weird assortment of animals they brought back! The
irate owners were not mollified until permitted to select a representa-
tive to accompany us.

The scenery along this trail to the Apurimac is superb. Two distinct
ridges are crossed at about 14,000 feet altitude before the trail makes
its final descent to the jungles. For the first part of the trip the moun-
tain sides are a riot of color—blue lupines, yellow calceolarias, orange
alonsoas, and mutisias, pink orchids, and red salvias everywhere. At
these higher elevations there are a few shrubs and an occasional low.
much-gnarled tree. But, on the third day out, on passing through a

Fic. 103.—Primitive lite at Pargora, in the high mountains between Huanta
and the Apurimac River. The cold here is intense, and the natives are usually
shivering as they do the little work necessary to eke out a miserable existence.

gap in the mountains, we saw the Amazonian forest spread out below,
a dark sea of treetops, relieved only by the pale leaves of Cecropia
and the brilliant yellow flowers of Gaiodendron, a tree related to the
mistletoe. The real forest begins at Aina, a small settlement at which
headquarters were established for a few days. The trail to this point
is fairly good, but from Aina to Kimpitiriki it is merely a succession of
decaying logs, half-fallen bridges, and deep mudholes. Animal life
was scarce, though the numerous wounds on the backs of the mules
each morning showed that vampire bats were abundant in this region.

Kimpitiriki, a Franciscan mission, was the farthest point reached
by the expedition in this part of the country, and from here we retraced
our route to Huanta, Huancayo, and Tarma. From Tarma we pro-
122 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

ceeded to the montafia region known as the “ Chanchamayo,” from
the river of that name. Strangely, this 48-mile auto ride from Tarma
to La Merced provided one of the greatest thrills of the trip. The total
descent is about 7,700 feet, the greater part of this coming within a
very few miles, where the highway descends in a series of S-curves
from the top to the bottom of the Tarma valley. The road is scarcely
wider than the car and one-way traffic is maintained, passage going
up and down on alternate days. With their inherent love of excite-
ment the native drivers make little use of brakes, the car swerving
around curves with the out wheels almost in the air, brushing against
jutting cliffs, and shooting through tunnels. To meet a cow, strayed
from her hillside pasture to the road, or a mule caravan proceeding
in the wrong direction is embarrassing, to say the least. Obviously
it was impossible to collect many plants en route, but later we returned
to two especially inviting localities, Carpapata, where we were the
guests of Mr. A. D. Bryant, of the Cerro de Pasco Copper Corpora-
tion, and Huacapistana, a locality made famous botanically by the
collections of Dr. Weberbauer, the distinguished botanist of Lima.

In the Chanchamayo, collections were made from three principal
bases: La Merced, the hacienda of Senor Carlos Schunke above San
Ramon, and the Perené Colony, where we were entertained for two
weeks by Senor Victor Valleriestra. For much of the success of the
trip we are indebted to such hospitable Peruvians as Senor Garcia,
Senor Valleriestra of Tarma, and to the government officials at
Lima, and to the prefects and subprefects of the departments and
provinces visited.

The Perené Colony is at the end of the auto road, and from here
into the montafa travel is solely by mule trail, river, and air. Mr.
Smith and I started over the famous Pichis trail June 28, our caravan
including eight cargo mules. The trail reaches a height of some 6,000
feet, and for the entire distance there is a succession of changing types
of vegetation. At intervals of 20 to 35 kilometers, a day’s travel, very
satisfactory tambos (as the small inns are called) are located, and
whenever we came to one of these in a region of special botanical
interest we would delay a day and make as large collections as pos-
sible. Of unusual interest was an open sphagnum bog, much resem-
bling those of northern regions, where terrestrial orchids were abun-
dant and where we found a familiar plant, our common cinnamon fern.
At one of these tambos, a flimsy-looking house made of palm trunks
and thatched palm leaves, we had our only serious misadventure of the
entire trip. Our presses slung over kerosene burners caught fire, and

N

SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1929

‘uosiod ysy & SB pasn aie YOIyM IO
$]OO1 dy} ‘DIIVAD JO satoads B st uRIpuy dy} Aq potsties yuR]d
sy ‘saavay wyed yo yoor ve Suijsoddns sajod Moy eB AjatoUr
‘gjdums AJOA o1e SjNY AY] “AATY gUetaq oy} JO syueq
ay} Suoye Surary ‘aqiiy odwuiey oy} Jo suevipuj[— sol ‘S14

‘JYSII 94} UO ‘IDATY OILJURTY
9} 0} Joa} OOO'T JO Corp asdys &B st asoyT, *peospres epvso0 fayy
-odvoUeN]{ 9} SuOje ule} e& JO JUSWIeIaq—Tol ‘DIY

124 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Fic. 106.—Canoeing on the Perené River. Much skill is required to manage

these boats in the swift waters of the smaller mountain streams of the Amazon
basin.

Fic. 107.—Making a canoe from a mahogany log. The trunk is cut longitu-
dinally ; the shape of the proposed boat is outlined with strips of palm stalks ;
the surplus wood is removed by fires built about the log and by machetes, the
native knives. Scene near Yurimaguas.

- ie

SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1929 12

on

Fic. 108.—A fishing party near Yurimaguas. Roots of a poisonous plant locally
known as “barbasco” are mashed in water in the bottom of a canoe. The water
is thrown into a small stream, resulting in the stupefying of large numbers of
fish. These are then readily caught with net or spear.

Fic. 109.—The final process of making herbarium specimens. When the
plants are brought in, portions are laid between sheets of blotting paper and
corrugated cardboard, cinched together, and slung over oil burners. The heat
passing through the cardboards dries the specimens in a short time.
126 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

soon the entire room was in flames. Quick and judicious use of water
saved the building, and fortunately only a few specimens were
scorched.

The Pichis trail ends at Puerto Yessup, on the Pichis River, and
from here we went by canoes to Cahuapanas, stopping four days en
route at Puerto Bermudez. In many ways this was the most interest-
ing part of the entire trip. The river is sufficiently narrow to permit a
good view of the plant and animal life on its banks. Noisy monkeys
swung from tree to tree; alligators and giant turtles basked on the
muddy shores ; flocks of brilliant birds of the parrot type flew over the
tree tops. The river itself was a swift-flowing stream, with numerous
rapids and whirlpools. At shallow stretches we would disembark and
drag the canoe to deeper water. Once the current swept us close to the
shore, and an overhanging branch pulled one of our trunks and the
steersman into the water, but both were speedily rescued. At inter-
vals our Indian paddlers threw dynamite into the deep pools, then
dove for the stunned fish ; these fish, an occasional bird, and turtle-eggs
supplemented the canned provisions taken on the trip.

From Cahuapanas, a mission on the lower Pichis River, we traveled
by motor canoe and steam launch to Masisea, on the Ucayali River,
just below the mouth of the Pachitea. We reached Masisea July 25,
27 days after leaving the Chanchamayo. Mr. Dennis arrived by air-
plane the same day, having made the trip in two and a half hours,
a good illustration of the difference aviation is making in travel time
in the backwoods of South America, even making allowance for our
collecting on the way.

Iquitos, which was to be our main headquarters for the remain-
der of the trip, is five days by steamer from Masisea, and is situated
on the Amazon, a short distance below the point where that river is
formed by the junction of the Ucayali and the Maranon. It is a thor-
oughly progressive city of about 12,000 population, one of the most
charming cities I have visited in South America. It is a surprisingly
healthful place, almost entirely without malaria and other tropical dis-
eases that prospective travelers fear. It would serve as an ideal base
for biological exploration of the upper Amazon country, the great
Peruvian rivers, the Ucayali and the Huallaga, and the Ecuadorean
rivers, the Napo, Tigre, Pastaza, and Santiago, all entering the Ama-
zon (or the Maranon as the upper Amazon is called) within easy reach
of Iquitos.

A four-day trip to Yurimaguas, at the head of steamer navigation
on the Huallaga River, brought us into a different section of the
Amazonian jungle, its flora quite distinct from that of the Iquitos area.

SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1929 127

Mr. Smith went on foot to Balsapuerto, 50 miles west of Yurimaguas,
at the base of the Andes, bringing back a valuable collection.

I spent several days along the right-of-way being cleared for the
proposed railroad from Yurimaguas to the Pacific. One of the most
difficult problems for the botanical collector in the tropical jungle is
the making of herbarium specimens of tall trees and high climbing
lianas. To cut down a giant tree not only requires much time but
very often the upper portion merely falls upon some other tree, which
in turn has to be chopped down, or is supported high up in the air by
a net work of woody vines. Soa place where the land is being cleared
is sought. Along this right-of-way it was a comparatively simple

Fic. 110.—Fishing craft at Para. Every evening these boats return to port,
well laden with the fish of the lower Amazon.

matter to obtain specimens not only of the large trees themselves but
of the dense epiphytic growth covering the topmost branches.

While Mr. Smith and I were in the Yurimaguas section Mr. Dennis
went to the rapids of Manseriche, at the head of navigation on the
Maranon, exploring also the lower portions of the Morona and
Pastaza rivers. So far as known, the only botanical collecting previ-
ously done in this region is that of Tessmann, a German botanist
stationed for several years at Iquitos.

Plans for the field-work of the expedition called for our spending
all our time in Peru, so the 2,o00-mile trip from Iquitos down the
Amazon to Para was made as speedily as possible. It was, however,
rather an aggravation to cross Brazil at almost its widest part with-

9
128 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

out making large collections. While waiting for steamer connections
at Manaos, time was found for a few short collecting trips, one made
in company with Dr. Adolfo Ducke, of the Jardim Botanico of Rio de
Janeiro, being of particular interest. Fairly ample collections were
obtained also at Gurupa, on the lower Amazon, and on Mosqueiro
Island, in the mouth of the Para River.

Two complete sets of specimens were made for the National
Museum and the New York Botanical Garden. A nearly complete
third set will be deposited at the Field Museum of Natural History,
where special study is being made of the flora of Peru. A large
number of extra duplicates were gathered also for distribution to
other institutions at which particular groups are being studied.

The collection numbers total 9,166, so that approximately 30,000
specimens are being brought out of Peru and Brazil by this expedi-
tion. It is hoped that the material will prove of such definite scientific
interest and practical value that further botanical exploration of the
upper Amazon region will be regarded as important. As previously
mentioned, Iquitos would be an excellent headquarters from which
to work. Even at present there is much interest in biological investi-
gations in the city, due largely to the activity of Doctor H. M. Bassler,
geologist of the Standard Oil Company of Peru, who encourages
his employees stationed in far outposts in the forest to collect speci-
mens of bird, mammal, and plant life. Indeed, to Doctor Bassler and
Mr. G. M. Ker we are greatly indebted for valuable assistance, which
went far toward making our work in this region successful.

BORANICAL EXPEORATION OF NORTHWESTERN
iavai hil

By E. C. LEONARD,
Assistant Curator, Division of Plants, U. S. National Museum

The northwestern peninsula of Haiti with its numerous and diverse
plant associations has long been in need of thorough botanical ex-
ploration. I was fortunate in being assigned to this work, fostered by
Dr. W. L. Abbott and the Smithsonian Institution.

In pitch darkness, on the night of December 20, 1928, my wife and
I were unceremoniously “dumped” from the Columbian freight
steamer Jartinique into a small rowboat and pulled ashore at Port de
Paix amid the excited chattering and ogling of the usual crowd of
wharf loiterers. After placing our cumbersome baggage in the Cus-
toms House we were taken by auto, without a word of explanation, to
the boarding house of Madame Chee Chee (short for Theodore),
which was to be our occasional home throughout the ensuing months.
This apparently unsolicited attention remained a mystery to us until
two days later, when we learned that it had been by order of Captain
Peter Hartmann of the Gendarmes, who proved thenceforward our
counselor and friend-in-need.

Port de Paix, second in size to Cap Haiten on the north coast, lies
hetween two of a series of mountain spurs extending seaward from
Morne Haut Piton, a mountain whose size and height can be judged
only when viewed from a distance. The region roundabout is moist
and very productive, and is thickly populated, the town itself a center
of the coffee and cacao industry. The following five days, interrupted
by periods of sickness, were given to the assembling of equipment
and to collecting from the nearby hills. Finally we were able to cross,
in a small fishing boat, to Tortue Island.

La Vallée, on Tortue Island, is a short, deep, many-branched valley
which nearly severs the backbone of the island and is easily seen from
the mainland. Here we made a landing on the crumbling cement
wharf used in the past by a lumbering company, as scattered frag-
ments of machinery and an old narrow-gauge engine, all but swal-
lowed by the jungle, plainly indicated. We set up our tent, or cazlle
avec planches, as the natives called it, under a large bayahon tree,
where, embarrassed by constant visitors, bitten by fleas, worried by
hogs and dogs, we managed to live two weeks, busily collecting and

129
I30 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Fic. 111.—Low “scrub” vegetation of the coastal plateaus near Cabaret, a
century plant (Agave) near the middle.

Native “prickly pear” trees (Opuntia) along the shore at
La Baie Moustique. Our guide, Satil, at right.

IDG, Witz,

SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1929 131

drying plant material. Here also we became acquainted with Saul,
who adopted us on sight and became our friend, guide, “ man Friday,”
and social equal, all in one. We were interested to learn that he had
previously conducted Dr, Abbott and Dr. Ekman on their visits to
Tortue, Although his total knowledge of English was “ Seet down,”
“You want watah?”, his patience and good nature rendered him
invaluable as a teacher of his native creole lingo.

Usually on Wednesdays and Saturdays the entire neighborhood
gathered on the beach of La Vallée, either to go to market at Port de
Paix or to send their produce—plantains, potatoes, pumpkins, pigs,

Fre. 113.—An abandoned locomotive, half hidden
by the rank jungle of La Vallée, Tortue Island.

fish, and goats. The boats were invariably loaded to the gunwale
and the start was an occasion of great excitement and rivalry as to
which would be the first to get off. One morning, unfortunately
stormy, we set sail in the largest boat available and finally reached
Port de Paix, drenched to the skin.

We had returned to Port de Paix for recuperation, but being at
once made ill again were glad to get off, after a few days, to Caberet
on La Baie Moustique and boil our usual stews over the open fire.
Caberet must have been a considerable settlement in the old log-wood
days, but we found it nearly deserted, its houses falling into ruin. A
small dirty stream, all that is left of the Moustique River after its
INSTITUTION

SMITHSONIAN

OOO oe ———— —— —

‘1d4] IP 9}O7) IIOIATY JO yynoul
ay} ye UOTyeUIIOF [e105 ysnoy— 911 “OI

‘aAoqe . sould pjiM ,,
pain} YIM ‘raMoy ur sjuejd snyoeo sul
-Joquie]d Sulteaq YUNA, 99417 W—SII “Oy

‘sioded
sursip jyuejd ano dn sursoyyes ul a0urjsis
-Sse SUIT[IM pey aM ATJUONDeIy—PII “914

Sees te

a
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, I929 133

long run through the arid coastal region, furnished baths to goats,
donkeys, and pigs, and to us drinking water. After a fortnight of
successful work we returned to Port de Paix.

Our next collecting was done at Jean Rabel, which we reached by
a night launch ride in a calm sea with Captain Hartmann. Here again
we set up tents, this time on the bank of the Jean Rabel river, a swift-
flowing stream of clear water. Jean Rabel is a sizeable village, boast-
ing a drug store, gendarmerie, and a large market, but is surprisingly
situated several miles from the coast. Under these favorable circum-
stances we were able to devote all our time to collecting. The level
plateaus bordering the barren sea cliffs, covered with shrubs barely a
foot high, were especially interesting and easy to collect. To the
south lay low mountains, which though found to be equally pro-
ductive were difficult in the extreme to penetrate, owing to lack of
roads other than winding goat trails lined with ‘
and thorny bushes.

Several weeks were spent at Jean Rabel. After shifting so long for
ourselves we had, one day, the pleasure of welcoming Lieutenant
Whitehouse, sent to take charge of the local gendarmerie. From him
we gained an insight into the mysterious and complicated system of

“jumping ”’ cactus

local politics prevailing in all Haitian towns, and with his help we
procured much-needed pack animals with which to make the trip to
the Mole, Bombardopolis, and back.

The trail to the Mole follows along an old sea shelf, winding mile
after mile through arid thickets and huge cactus groves, with not
even a Haitian hut and only one stream, La Riviere Cote de Fer, to
break the monotony. Most of the trip was made afoot and with more
or less difficulty. Toward night camp was set up under a huge mango
tree, in the deep gorge of the Mole River. From this point Satil and
I scouted the rocky arid wastes of the surrounding regions for seven
or eight days, collecting new or interesting plants which Mrs. Leonard,
in addition to her numerous other duties, dried as usual.

One evening found us again on the trail, this time bound for
Bombardopolis, situated to the south in the midst of a great plateau.
Arriving there the following midnight, we hastily made camp and
crawled in under double blankets to escape the cold. Next morning
we were awakened by a large body of excited citizens headed by their
police, all astonished that a family of “ blancs ”’ with tents and com-
plete living equipment should appear so suddenly out of the blackness
of night. A detailed report of ourselves satisfied the police, but noth-
ing seemed to satiate the curiosity of the natives who, day after day,
would stare, five and six deep, in front of our tent, as long as light
134 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

lasted. Here Mrs. Leonard became a dentist, treating one cavernous
mouth after another with a tiny drop of clove oil to allay the raging
pains of toothache with which many of the good-natured blacks were
afflicted. In grateful return they brought gifts of garden produce and,
from a single large spring several miles to the west of town, drinking
water. This spring, situated in the midst of an otherwise arid region,
supported a curious vegetation.

Our strenuous thirty-one-mile trek back to Jean Rabel, over dark
mountain trails, with four heavily loaded donkeys and a treacherous
mule, though tedious, was accomplished in good spirits. It would take
little effort, we thought, to go from there back to Port de Paix and to
safety for our collection of 6,000 specimens. The trip from Port de
Paix to Jean Rabel had required but four and one-half hours, but it
actually took us eighteen days to return. A twenty-foot launch had
been engaged, but owing to stormy weather it was several days before
it could put in to take us off, During a lull it came and we set out, but

‘only to be held up opposite dangerous cliffs, a few miles down the
coast, by a stalled motor. A tiny sail and occasional sculling eventu-
ally brought us back to Jean Rabel late that evening, but not without
moments of extreme danger. Saul was then sent on foot to Port de
Paix with a. message to the Captain. After several days’ work,
Lieutenant Whitehouse managed to get the motor started and again
we set out, this time in a high sea. Blanc, our pilot, warned us, ‘ Wind
he no good. She blow like hell!’’, and so it did. Many prayers in-
duced the motor to sputter along until we actually passed Baie L’Ecu,
the only place a boat could possibly find shelter along that twenty miles
of cliffs, when, after a sickly cough or two, the motor breathed its
last, leaving us close to treacherous rocks. With Mrs. Leonard at
the rudder Blane and I were able to swing the boat around and, with
one oar set up for a sail, to row back to the bay. Here a Haitian
family, the sole survivors of a once prosperous village, made us at
home. Not only ourselves but our equipment and collections were
drenched.

Our pilot was the next to be sent for help, the engine now being
totally beyond repair. Four days we waited, with only three cans of
beans and a few sweet potatoes left for supplies, re-drying our speci-
mens and searching the nearby cliffs for additional plant material,
until Blanc appeared with a bunch of huskies, well fortified with rum,
to row us home. This they did, taking the sea at its calmest, shortly
after moonrise. They rowed to the tune of their entire repertory of
creole songs, very melodious if some of them were lewd.

SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1929 135

Just as scarce as was fresh water in our western camps, so was it
plentiful in our eastern ones; in fact, the difficulty now was to keep
dry. The slopes above St. Louis du Nord, wherever the soil was
sufficiently rich, were crowded with coffee plantations, and the trails
bordered with cacao trees. The uppermost ridges, many of them
covered with a stiff red clay, supported only sweet potatoes or beans.
On the rocky peaks, where even a Haitian was unable to tack a gar-
den, flourished dense groves of thick-limbed jambos trees, literally
upholstered in deep layers of moss and ornamental delicate ferns,
continually drenched in sweeping billows of fog. I took Saul up,
much to his terror, into this smoke, as he called it, where the mys-

“ a ¥
| hn nme a hig OO

Fic. 117.—A newly opened automobile road near Bassin Bleu.

terious moaning of the dimly seen jambos limbs, rubbing upon each
other, brought him to the point of flight. He knew the sound of
zombies.

A productive visit was next made by motor truck to Bassin Bleu
over a newly opened road leading to Gros Morne. We tore along at
breakneck speed, down steep mountain slopes, round dangerous
curves, over open stream beds, until stopped by a partial dissolution
of the accelerator. After the driver had tied the parts together with
a string, on we dashed.

From our camp at Bassin Bleu, I managed to explore the distant
Moustique Range, and, after three attempts, to scale the summit of
Morne Haut Piton. Our camp life here was peaceful, though more
strenuous than any. The natives had seen a ‘“ Madame Blanche” be-
136 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

fore, so we received little though courteous attention. The only
serious disturbers of the peace were the scorpions.

A farewell visit to La Vallée, a few days’ wholesale packing, and
the ever-recurring hotel sickness—finally we were on our way to
Port au Prince, to be on time for our much delayed reservations for
New York.

We called, in Port au Prince, on Dr. Freeman and Dr. Barker of
the Service Technique, and found Dr. Barker busily experimenting
with a new palm nut procured from the vicinity of Cap Haitien. He
had succeeded in extracting two oils; that from the kernel, white

Fic. 118.—Arid hills in the vicinity of Bassin Bleu. The distant mountain
is Morne Haut Piton.

and semi-digestible, the other, from the fleshy orange covering,
wholly indigestible. ‘‘ Have you found these nuts in your travels?” he
asked us. ‘‘ The natives extract both oils for cooking.” No; we had
not seen the nuts, but the sight of the orange oil—the predominant
sauce in all of Madame Chee Chee’s dishes—was only too familiar !

We reached New York May 31, with 16 cases and trunks. In addi-
tion to our equipment, these contained insect collections, a quantity of
shells, 160 wood samples, and approximately 15,000 plant specimens,
the last a valuable addition to the growing Haitian collections in the
U.S. National Herbarium.

THE ANCIENT AND MODERN INHABITANTS OF
THE YUKON

3y ALES HRDLICKA,
Curator, Division of Physical Anthropology, U. S. National Musewm

A full season of anthropological work along the Yukon River,
from practically its inception to its two northern mouths, was made
possible in 1929 through grants by the Smithsonian Institution and
the Bureau of American Ethnology, supplemented by a grant from
the Joseph Henry Fund of the National Academy of Sciences and a
contribution from the Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass. The work
along the upper third of the river, from White Horse to Fort Yukon,
was restricted to mere observations ; but from Fort Yukon downward
intensive research was carried out both on the living Indians and
Eskimo, and on the old sites and burials. The work was a material
extension of that of 1926,’ and resulted in the detailed examination
and measurements of approximately 200 full-blood natives—in some
places comprising all that remain; in the making of over 400 photo-
graphs and 15 facial casts; and in the collecting of 60 boxes of
anthropological and archeological specimens. As in 1926 so during
the present journey much kind and generous assistance and_ hos-
pitality was received from the people along the river, both whites and
natives. To mention them individually would be impossible ; they can
only be thanked collectively.” Thanks, also, are due to Dr. George

* Smithsonian Misc. Coll., Vol. 78, No. 7, pp. 137-158, 1927.

* Especially grateful acknowledgment is, however, due to Bishop P. T. Rowe,
Head of the Episcopalian Missions in Alaska; to Dr. and Mrs. Grafton Burke,
in charge of the Hospital and Mission at Fort Yukon; to Deaconess H. M.
Beddle, in charge of the Mission at Tanana; to Dr. and Mrs. J. W. Chapman,
in charge of the Mission at Anvik; to Father Superior P. I. Delon and to
Fathers Cunningham, Lachessi and others at the Holy Cross Mission; to Mr.
Volney Richmond, President of the Northern Commercial Co. and his agents ;
to Chris Betsch at Russian Mission, a staunch old friend of the Institution, and to
Messrs. Keir and Bishop, in charge of his stores; to Harry Lawrence at Anvik
and Jim Walker at Ghost Creek; to Deputy Marshal Johnson, at Marshall; to
Mr. and Mrs. Fred Watson, the traders, and Mr. and Mrs. McClung, the
teachers, at Pilot Station; to the authorities of the Alaska Railroad and the
Captains and other officers of their steamers; and last but by no means least
to Mr. and Mrs. Calvin F. Townsend, our hosts for two weeks on the Coot,
the fine new boat of the U. S. Bureau of Fisheries on the Yukon. Thanks are
further hereby extended to the U. S. Geological Survey for the loan of a launch,
which proved of great value to the expedition; and to the U. S. Bureau of Educa-
tion, for its kind cooperation.

137
138 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Fic. 119.—At the source of the Yukon.

*

pop)
a ih in a

oh
*
4 e

TM WTP 9 PEE AUN ACR URN

Fic. 120-—Dr. Hrdli¢ka standing beside the canoe in which over 1,500 miles
was covered along the Yukon and its side channels.
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1929 139

Maly, Docent in Anthropology at the Charles University of Prague,
who accompanied me on the whole journey and assisted me in pho-
tography and in every other way.

The main work began at Fort Yukon on June 8, and nine days were
spent here in examination and casting of the Indians. On the sixteenth,
we started on the trip down the river in a light open 18-foot Peter-
borough canoe with an “ Elto”’ outboard motor, visiting every vil-
lage, camp, and site that could be located, down to Pilot Station,
where we arrived on August 2. The journey was facilitated by the
almost continuous daylight but was often made disagreeable by rainy,
stormy weather. Over 1,500 miles was covered in the canoe, besides
which an important side trip was made in a larger boat through the
Shageluk Slough and the lower Innoko, as well as a series of trips in
the mouths of the river on the Coot or its launch—all this, it is
gratifying to report, without accident or illness, and though the work
was sometimes of a rather delicate nature, without incurring the il!
will of any person. The latter was perhaps due to the fact that the
objects of the study and collecting were frankly explained in every
case to whites and natives alike through lectures or individually, and
that all recent burials were strictly respected. In many cases of the
older remains I was not only told of them and conducted to the spot,
which in some cases I could not have located alone, but was even as-
sisted in their removal. There could be but little secrecy, and so the
work was carried on considerately but quite openly. They soon knew
me all along the river as the “ skull doctor,” laughed over it with
much good nature, and were as friendly as possible, especially among

the Eskimo on the lower river. In return they were given such medi-
cal and other assistance as was feasible and were paid suitably for
every archeological specimen they brought, of which there was col-
lectively quite a number. In but one case were we near trouble. At
Ingrehak, below Russian Mission, a local full-blood brought me to a
rotten above-ground grave with a clean skeleton of an old male. This
was in full view of the nearby part of the village and some natives
were looking on amusedly. But just as the parts were all gathered I
saw below (the grave was on a slope) an old woman who appeared to
be provoked at something and was talking to herself rather loudly.
On sending the Indian who accompanied me down to see what the
trouble was I learned that the old woman claimed the bones to be those
of her long departed husband, and was saying: “ Why don’t they go
further back of the hill where they find real old bones and leave this
old man (said to have died about 30 years ago) alone.” This was
very promptly done, to the complete satisfaction of the old dame
140 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

" —
ee - +
a ene * ee
Se hc eet earmaa «ee toad ea = ee ae)

Fic. 121.—The Koyukuk cemetery, at the mouth of the Koyukuk River.

Fic. 122.—Native camp, lower Yukon.
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1929 I41

Fic. 124.-—Painted burial box, Innoko River.
142 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

(who later at Marshall became quite friendly) and with happy re-
sults, for there was found in the background an old site which other-
wise would have escaped us.

The examination of the living, after due explanations, met with
practically no objection and many thanked me for being told of their
physical condition. The casting— making stone faces ” the Indians
called it—was a little more difficult, but a modest compensation with
the prospect of “having their faces in Washington” prevailed in
most cases. The main difficulty was, not to get the consent of the
people, but to find normal full-bloods—they are getting very scarce
along the river, especially in its middle regions.

The outstanding scientific results of the journey can be determined
clearly only after a detailed study of the data and specimens obtained.
It is certain, however, that for the first time it will be possible to show
definitely the anthropological nature of the Yukon population. The
indications as to conditions on the river are as follows:

Ancient sites and remains, in the true sense of the word, have not
yet been discovered and there appears to be no chance of their dis-
covery unless it be through some rare fortunate accident. The reasons
are that what may have existed some thousands or even hundreds of
years ago has either been completely washed out by the ever cutting
waters or that it lies deeply buried somewhere in the jungles of the old
flats or foot hills far away from the present channels. [Everything
that has so far been recovered is relatively recent. It goes back only
to the time of the Russians and perhaps the century or two preceding.
Even the oldest known specimens belong only to the upper neolithic.

The Indians of the Yukon, so far as the evidence extends, were
true Indians, with occasionally strongly marked late Asiatic affinities.
They show but little heterogeneity, belonging in the main to one type,
related on one hand strongly to the Thlinkit and on the other to the
Athabaskan. A somewhat aberrant small group may have existed
about the mouth of the Koyukuk. The Indians of the Kaltag region
have been admixed and perhaps in part replaced by Eskimo, who
doubtless came overland from the Norton Sound region, The Indians
of Anvik have been admixed similarly and from the same direction.
Between both Kaltag and Anvik and the Norton Sound there exist
relatively short portages and old roads.

There is no clear line of demarcation, either culturally or physically,
between the Eskimo people of the lower and the Indian people of the
middle Yukon. The lower river culture was richer than that further
up. It extended at least as far as Bonasila (20 miles approximately
below Anvik), and possibly as far as the Greyling River (22 miles
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1929 143

Fic. 125——Indian of middle Yukon, Fic. 126.—Eskimo, lower Yukon.
photographed at Tanana.

Fic. 127.—A young Indian woman from the Koyukuk.

10
144 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Fic. 128.—The short and the long face among the Yukon Eskimos.
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, I929 145

above Anvik) or even Kaltag. It was marked by a relative profusion
of stone implements, the presence of the stone adze, absence of the
bilateral stone axe, and more or less numerous artifacts of ivory, bone,
and antlers. The culture of the middle Yukon was less rich in forms
but was characterized by the bilateral stone axe and tomahawk. Pot-
tery was of much the same poor quality along the whole river, though
there may have been differences in form and decoration. On the other
hand painted burial boxes, which, it would seem, are truly Indian,

Fic. 129.—The Yukon Eskimo (lower Yukon).

extended as far down as the vicinity of Holy Cross, and the language
was certainly Indian (Tinneh) down to Anvik, if not to above
Paimute.

Physically, too, there is no line of clear separation. [skimoid
physiognomies are encountered with decreasing frequency as far up as
Tanana, Indian to the mouth of the river; while stature and skulls
show no great differences. The true (not lately immigrated) Eskimo
of the Yukon impresses one more like an Eskimo in the forming than
like the completed product of the far north. The results of the study
of the important skeletal collections from both the middle and the
lower parts of the Yukon will be awaited with much interest. The
population of the Shageluk Slough and Innoko River is wholly Indian,
146 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

and on the whole less admixed as yet than that of the middle Yukon.
Good skeletal collections were secured here also.

The site at Bonasila yielded many further specimens, and if the
erosion continues as at the present, it will continue to yield more for
many years, From the collections made up to the present time and
from excavations carried on this year it is now certain that the site
comprised but one settlement, which began in pre-Russian times and
continued to the time of the Russians. The culture, it 1s now seen, 1s
essentially the same as that further down the river and must hence be
ascribed to the Eskimoid rather than Indian people. The earlier
skeletal remains from the site, unfortunately still too few in number,
are exceedingly interesting. The site should be watched.

An important old site, hitherto unknown, has been located on the
almost unknown Kaiuh Slough, lower middle Yukon. The “ dogfish
village” site at Tuckers, and the old parts of Holokochakat on the
Shageluk Slough, are also assuming much interest. These sites would
all repay careful archeological exploration.

For physical anthropology the next important and necessary task
will be the study of the full-blood remnants of the people of the
Kuskokwim, and the collecting on that river of such of the older
archeological and skeletal remains as may yet be saved from destruc-
tion or dispersion.
iio ORIG Simi OwUET URE, OFLAEASKA

By HENRY By COLEINS: JiR:
Assistant Curator, Division of Ethnology, U.S. National Museum

For many years it has been the consensus of anthropological opin-
ion that Bering Strait was the gateway through which man first
entered America. It is rather surprising, therefore, that a region of
such theoretical importance should not have been actually investigated
until so late as 1926. While the archeological investigations of the
past four years have revealed no certain evidences of the original
migrants into America, they have produced results of an unexpected
nature that appear to have a fundamental bearing on the question of
the origin and spread of the Eskimo.

In June, 1929, I returned to Alaska for a third season of field-work
in which I was assisted by Mr. G. Herman Brandt. [¢xcavations were
carried on at St. Lawrence Island, Cape Denbeigh, Imaruk Basin,
and Point Hope, and additional sites were examined in a reconnois-
sance of the coast from Norton Sound to Point Hope in the Arctic.
The greater part of the journey was made on the Coast Guard
Cutter Northland, and the results obtained are due in large part to
the interest and willing cooperation of Captain E. D. Jones.

In order to obtain information on the physical type and material
culture of the early Norton Sound Eskimo, a week was spent exam-
ining old sites and collecting skeletal remains from this region.
No villages were found that in size or antiquity might be compared
with those on St. Lawrence Island or at other places around Bering
Strait.

On June 18 we were put ashore at Cape Nialegak on the southeast
end of St. Lawrence Island, where we camped for a month and ex-
cavated at the old abandoned village. The Cape Kialegak village, which
I located in 1928, is 130 miles from the nearest I¢skimo settlement and
is one of the largest ancient sites in Alaska.

As at most St. Lawrence sites the original houses here had been
built just above the beach. As refuse accumulated about them they
were abandoned and became filled in and later houses were built at a
higher level. The last houses, which were abandoned in 1879, were
18 feet above the beach line, sunk into the top of the huge midden that
had accumulated during the centuries of occupancy.

All of these kitchen middens are permanently frozen; newly ex-
posed surfaces thaw at the rate of from two to four inches a day so

147
148 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

that the task of excavating to the bottom of such a site is a slow and

laborious one. In this particular case, however, we were fortunately
able to proceed more rapidly. On its outer side, facing the sea, the
midden rose abruptly from the beach and our method of  pro-

Fic. 130—Beginning excavation along the outer vertical face of the large
midden at Cape Kialegak, St. Lawrence Island.

cedure was to strip away the outer thawed material from top to
bottom and level off irregularities until a practically vertical face was
exposed. When this had thawed for a few days we began at the top,
and standing on a ladder took the section down with a trowel in layers
two feet thick and five feet wide. This process was repeated as rapidly
as the newly exposed face thawed out. The same method of excavation
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1929 149

was followed at a smaller site a few hundred yards down the beach.
This village had been abandoned for at least 200 years and it may have
been established somewhat earlier than the other, although this is not
certain.

Both middens were rich in material. Large numbers of bird and
mammal bones and several thousand artifacts lost or discarded by the
I*skimos, all identified as to location and depth, were collected. In-
cluded were over 70 decorated specimens of ivory, most of which
belonged to the style of prehistoric Eskimo art that I had found the

Fic. 131.—Camp at Cape Kialegak, St. Lawrence Island. Cleaning and
drying bones from the old village.

year before to be characteristic of Punuk Island and the greater part
of St. Lawrence.’ However, there were also found nine specimens
which bore the incised curvilinear ornamentation that had been pre-
viously recognized as having preceded the Punuk type. This older
style of art, which was discovered in 1926 by Dr. Ales Hrdlicka and
Mr. Diamond Jenness, is marked by a profuse but extremely graceful
arrangement of flowing lines, circles, and ellipses, the latter having
been made free hand in contrast to those of the Punuk period which
were made with a compass or drill of metal. There is no evidence that

*Explorations and Field-Work of the Smithsonian Institution in 1928. Smith-
sonian Institution, 1920.

? Prehistoric art of the Alaskan Eskimo. Smithsonian Misc. Coll., Vol. 81,
No. 14, 1920.
INSTITUTION

SMITHSONIAN

150

‘YeIJG SulJog JO YyNos ‘purysy sury
B JO apis dy} UO }INq sasnoy OWNYysSy— EET “Oly

"yseOD DDI
ay} uo sdoyy yuo ‘[eling ounysy plo—zEFI “o1y

SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1929 151

metal was employed during the earlier period. While the nine older
specimens referred to were all excavated from the lower levels of the
middens, some examples of the later Punuk art were found at an
equal or even greater depth, indicating that as a whole the Kialegak
sites belonged to the later period. The nine older specimens no doubt
should be explained as objects that remained in the possession of the
I’skimos for some time after the art style they represented had been
supplanted by another.

On July 14 the Northland called for us at Cape Kialegak and after
a few days at Nome we proceeded northward toward Point Hope.
Along the way limited collections were made and a number of
Eskimos from King Island, Shishmareff, and Kotzebue were mea-
sured.

In past years several fine examples of the ancient Bering Sea art
from Point Hope had found their way into various museums, and
since it was very desirable to have material from an Arctic site for
comparison with that from St. Lawrence, Point Hope was selected for
investigation. This village, which occupies the end of a long narrow
sandspit, has for centuries been an important Eskimo center. It has,
however, suffered to an urusual degree from the destructive action
of the sea. The north side of the spit, on which the old village is
located, is being gradually washed away, while on the opposite or
south side great ridges of sand and gravel are being deposited. Ruins
of old houses are still to be seen in considerable number but these are
hardly more than 100 years old. This is shown by the fact that modern
types of harpoon heads and other implements as well as metal are
found in the old houses by the Iskimos, who are busily engaged in
digging them up for the wood and blubber-soaked refuse they contain,
which, because of the extreme scarcity of drift-wood, they are forced
to use as fuel.

The greater part of the time at Point Hope was devoted to excavat-
ing an old cemetery and taking measurements of the natives. From
the cemetery were obtained more than 50 well-preserved skeletons.
These were original inhumations and did not represent collapsed
platform buria!s. They date from a period, probably several hundred
years ago, when platform burial had not been adopted. Very few
objects accompanied the burials but it was interesting to find that over
the feet of many of them had been placed large fragments, usually
the bottoms, of heavy earthenware cooking pots or lamps.

After a quick trip to Point Barrow the Northland returned and
picked us up again. The first stop on the way south was made at
Kivalena where more Eskimos were measured. On entering Bering
=|
cn
i)

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Fic. 134.—Eskimo house of walrus skins, Lutke Harbor, northeastern
Siberia. The Siberian Eskimo and those on St. Lawrence Island have adopted
this type of house from the Chukchee in recent years.

Fic. 135.—Closely flexed burial at Kowieruk, Seward Peninsula. The other
burials at this place were extended. Pottery lamp at feet.
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1929 153

Strait we proceeded to Lutke Harbor, in Siberia, to water ship. Here
an opportunity was afforded to observe the Siberian Eskimos who are
of the same stock as the St. Lawrence Islanders.

We next made a brief stop at the little Diomede Island in the center
of Bering Strait. In ancient times this small island was apparently
one of the highest centers of development of the old Bering Sea culture
and I was fortunate in being able to buy a dozen beautifully deco-
rated specimens of this period that had been excavated by the
Eskimos.

Arriving at Nome, Mr. Brandt and I left the ship and made a trip
125 miles into the interior of Seward Peninsula to the upper Kou-
garuk River. The object was to investigate certain large perforated
and notched stones that were reported to have been found in the gold-
bearing gravels of Pleistocene age in the Henry Creek mining district.
About 16 of these stones have been found, weighing from 10 to 70
pounds. Their most probable use was that of canoe or net anchors
or weights to hold down skin roof coverings. The notches and per-
forations were unmistakably artificial and were as deeply patinated
as the adjoining surfaces. Unfortunately we did not ourselves find
any of the stones in place. If they really belong in the Pleistocene
gravels it is of course a matter of first importance. However, they
could easily have fallen down to the gravel unnoticed during the
mining operations, while the overburden of tundra and frozen muck
was being removed hydraulically. On the other hand, even if they
were merely embedded in the tundra it is somewhat difficult to ex-
plain their presence, for Henry Creek and the upper Kougaruk, both
shallow mountain streanis, are 50 miles or more from the sea and
there is no evidence that the Seward Peninsula Eskimo ever pene-
trated into the region unless occasionally while hunting caribou.
They might possibly represent an early inland phase of Eskimo cul-
ture similar to that found further east and north. However, specula-
tion as to the meaning of the stones is useless until definite knowl-
edge is had of the strata in which they properly belong.

Returning to Nome we once more boarded the Northland and after
brief stops at Gambell and Sevunga on St. Lawrence Island, got off
at Teller. From there a trip was made to Kowieruk, an old village
just above the entrance to Imaruk Basin. No evidence of the old
Bering Sea culture was found in the excavations although a num-
ber of skeletons 100 years old or more were collected. Suggestive
of Point Hope was the presence of pottery lamps at the feet of some
of the skeletons.
154 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

After collecting skeletal material from Akeeveenuk, a somewhat
more recent site near Teller, we returned to Nome and a few days
later started eastward toward Norton Bay in the little schooner
Jewell Guard. At Koyuk, at the upper end of Norton Bay, we ob-
tained a dozen or more skeletons probably 100 years old. Excava-
tions were next made at an abandoned village on Cape Denbeigh.
This appears to be the oldest Eskimo site yet discovered in Norton
Sound but it is not so old as those on St. Lawrence Island and at
other places around Bering Strait.

Archeological investigations in Northwestern Alaska during the
past four years have revealed facts which make it possible to begin to
interpret the main trends of Alaskan prehistory. First, there is
shown to have lived in Alaska and northeastern Siberia in very early
times a group of [Eskimo who possessed a highly specialized culture
based primarily on the hunting of whales, seal, and walrus. They
lived in large semisubterranean houses constructed of driftwood and
whale bones and possessed an advanced material culture and an art
far richer and more elaborate than any since known to the Arctic
regions. This ancient culture has been found on St. Lawrence and
the Diomede Islands, Cape Prince of Wales, Point Hope, Point Bar-
row, and at several localities in northeastern Siberia. We may also
expect to find it at Kotzebue Sound and other places between Point
Barrow and Bering Strait. It does not, however, seem to have ex-
tended eastward to Norton Sound or southward, in its typical form,
below St. Lawrence Island.

At some unknown period, probably more than 500 years ago, the
rich curvilinear art that was one of the most characteristic features
of the old culture was succeeded by another similar to it in certain
respects but on the other hand more closely resembling that of the
modern Alaskan Eskimo. This later simplified art has been found at
St. Lawrence and Punuk islands, the Little Diomede Island, and
Point Hope. The designs were executed with metal tools even though
stone blades for knives, harpoons, and adzes were still the predomi-
nating forms. It seems probable that the change in art was directly
due to the introduction of small quantities of metal, possibly from
some Oriental source long before the arrival of the Russians into
Northeastern Siberia. Some time before the discovery of Alaska by
the Russians this intermediate form of art was likewise discontinued,
to be replaced by the well known and still simpler art of the modern
Alaskan Eskimo. The changes in Eskimo art that can as yet be traced,
therefore, have been entirely in the line of simplification or even
degeneration.
WwW
Ww

1929

SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS,

‘Udopoul “€1-O1 Sad} oyelpausdjzur ‘6-€ $41e IaUTTIAIND pyo ‘z-1 “ye OUNMSH
UBYSETY JO Sasejs II} 94} Suuassidai susisap p

9STOUL YIM AIO

AI pue 9u0q JO spoalqQ—'OFI “DIY

] 50 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

The earlier phase of the old Bering Sea culture, that characterized
by the rich curvilinear art, appears without doubt to be the most
ancient stage of Eskimo culture of which there is tangible evidence.
The oldest Eskimo culture of Canada and Greenland, the Thule cul-
ture, was apparently derived from that of Alaska but it is significant
that it resembles the late prehistoric and even modern Alaskan cul-
ture more closely than it does the earlier Bering Sea culture. It is
probable that these resemblances are the result of a return migration
or spread of Thule elements subsequent to the original eastward move-
ment of the Thule culture.

Of equal importance, though as yet much less clear, is the ques-
tion of the relation of the old Bering Sea culture to that of south-
eastern Alaska and the coast of British Columbia. All that can be
said at the present stage of our knowledge is that there is a vague
general similarity in the art of the two regions which suggests that
further studies may possibly reveal evidences of a former rela-
tionship.

The most important task awaiting archeological research in the
Arctic or sub-Arctic is to trace the early stages through which the
old Bering Sea culture passed. We find it in Alaska as an already
highly developed culture, apparently having reached there in that
condition. Evidence both of a direct and indirect nature points to
northeastern Siberia, somewhere between the Anadyr and Kolyma
Rivers, as the probable place of origin of this most ancient known
form of Eskimo culture.
PRE AISTORIC INAABITANTS OFTHE
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC

By HERBERT W. KRIEGER,
Curator, Division of Ethnology, U. S. National Museum

The aborigines of the ancient island of Hispaniola were practically
exterminated within two decades following the Conquest. Oppor-
tunity for studying their ethnology at first hand therefore does not
exist and the scanty literature dealing with native life is in part still
buried in Spanish archives. Of first importance 1s a monograph of
a certain Catalan priest, Ramon Pane, who was authorized by
Columbus to study the ceremonial life and religious practices of the
inhabitants of the great central plain, known as the Vega (meadow ).
Pane’s studies are accurate, for he lived among the natives and
spoke their language. A summary of his monograph appears in
Volume II of Churchill’s Collection of Voyages along with a
biography of Columbus written by his son Ferdinand. Other useful
records of native culture have been published by the Hakluyt Society
of London; of these, the “letters” and the “ journal” of Columbus
are perhaps the more important. Doctor Chanca’s account of the
second voyage of Columbus, the historical writings of Las Casas, the
“decades ” of Peter Martyr, and the works of Herrera and Benzoni
give a sketchy account of the historical tribes as they existed at the
beginning of the 16th century.

When the Spanish explorers entered on the scene, a great struggle
was under way in the West Indies between roving bands of piratical
Caribs and peaceful Arawak fishermen and farmers. The Caribs had
succeeded in displacing the island Arawak on the smaller islands of
the West Indian group nearer the South American mainland before
the arrival of the Spanish in 1492, but Arawak resistance stiffened
as they became acquainted with Carib practices and learned from
them the use of the bow. No Carib raiders were ever encountered by
the Spanish west of Porto Rico. It is also significant that the aborigi-
nal Arawak population of Cuba, western Haiti, and Jamaica were un-
acquainted with the use of the bow.

With the object of studying aboriginal culture remains in the shell-
and kitchenmiddens of northern Santo Domingo, the writer was de-
tailed by the Smithsonian to conduct archeological investigations in
the provinces of Monte Christi and Samana of the Dominican Re-

157
158 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Fic. 137—The beautiful plaza of Puerto Plata on the north coast of the
Dominican Republic. The streets of this town are well improved, the public
buildings substantial and dignified, and its plazas are strikingly ornamental.
Puerto Plata has lived through 400 years of stormy history and an uncounted
number ot revolutions.

ik ies eee

Fic. 138.—View from the harbor of Puerto Plata. The mountain barrier in
the background is scaled by a railroad with one of the steepest track gradi-
ents in the world. ‘The automobile highway from Puerto Plata to Santiago
in the great central Vega (meadow) in crossing the same mountains pro-
vides views of scenic splendor.
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1929 159

public. This work was made possible through the generosity of
Dr. W. L. Abbott, whose interest in Antillean archeology is of long
standing. The work undertaken during the current year is in con-
tinuation of archeological and historical investigations conducted by
the National Museum in the province of Samana in 1928.

From January to May, 1929, excavations were continued at ab-
original village sites in Monte Cristi Province. Three sites were
explored in the foothills southeast of the town of Monte Cristi.
Their location is perhaps better described as being midway between
the fishing village of Petit Salinas on the Atlantic Coast east of Monte
Cristi and the pueblo of El Duro on the Monte Cristi-Santiago
highway.

The country southeast of Monte Cristi is poorly watered. A few
houses of goatherds and of beekeepers dot the 40-kilometer-wide area
otherwise entirely unoccupied. Absence of any continuous source of
fresh water precludes the extensive settlement of this drought-stricken
region. The discovery therefore of extensive aboriginal, presumably
prehistoric village sites within this area is all the more remarkable.

The first site explored by the Smithsonian expedition, designated
Kilometer 2 by the writer, is approximately to kilometers inland
from the Atlantic coast, due south of the pueblo of Petit Salinas and
30 kilometers north of the Yaque River, the sole source of fresh
water in the lower valley. For a brief period following the rainy
season, in December and January, springs from water stored in the
subsoil of the foothills afforded a source of water supply. During the
remainder of the year a series of artificial reservoirs with earthen dams
provided water for the aboriginal occupants of the village. Ruins of
these reservoirs although overgrown with thorn thickets, are readily
discernible on the lower ground southeast of the village. The aborigi-
nal practice of impounding water in reservoirs during the rainy
season is continued by the few Dominicans who live in this semiarid
region. Kilometer 2 site includes six parallel rows of refuse heaps and
kitchenmiddens extending 350 feet north and south. Ashes from the
different aboriginal hearth fires form layers extending practically the
entire length of each row. Each midden is separated from the next ad-
joining midden by the distance of 5 to 10 paces. It would appear that
these conditions should have been reversed—that there should be an
uninterrupted sequence of midden deposits with clearly marked
hearths. This condition, no doubt, is due to weathering and to the
wearing away of the upper portions of the cultural deposits by occa-
sional floods and the periodic downpours during the rainy season.
Cultural deposits of ashes and of kitchen refuse on the average never

GE
160 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Fic. 139..—-Dominican laborers excavating a prehistoric Indian village site
in the thorn forest area of Monte Cristi province. Kitchenmiddens and shell
heaps in Santo Domingo are never very deep but are frequently extensive.
This one extended for more than 300 feet in a south-north direction.

Frc. 140.—Laborer types in Monte Cristi. The old man second from the
right, although living within sight of the ocean, had never been aboard a boat.
The tall man in the center shows no trace of Negro blood; likewise the man
at the left, whose Semitic cast is marked.
161

1929

EXPLORATIONS,

SMITHSONIAN

“€eq dy} JO stozeM 9}
ojur surjddoy Aq rvaddesip 0} ynoqe St Jost 941tUs 9} PRelepiy
aSe}S IY} OF possoisoid Sey SUI}INI JAR AA “AB BURRS Jo
IIOYS YNOS dY} YO Sja]St suo}soull] oY} FO wO—2zvVi “S14

‘systuojoo ysiueds oy} Aq sueipuy
DAIZLU JY} JO UONPUIUII}X9 BY} JO sep UMOUY IY} YPM shjOVo
SI} JO 95e ayeurxoidde 3y} dieduiod 0} SUTJSato}UT 9q PyNOM 71
pure OSumuog Owes Ul AyAva SUTSOq AIO}SIF{ “OHS 9SR][IA UBIPU]
a10ystyaid B JO do} UO SUIMOIS snzIRI 951e] AL “ONE

162 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

exceeded a depth of seven feet. Only a few inches of soil covered the
middens.

Another aboriginal village site, higher up in the foothills of the
Monte Cristi range near the Dominican pueblos of Manantial and
Las Aguitas, is much larger than the site designated as Kilometer 2.
The presence there of fresh water springs throughout a portion of the
year accounts for the presence of such a large aboriginal population.
The site extends to the very summit of the highest hills of the region
at an elevation exceeding 200 meters. Many of the higher hills of the
Monte Cristi range have at their summit small deposits of conchs and
other mollusk shells embedded in layers of ash from aboriginal
hearths,

Bones of mammals, birds, fish, and also of the sea turtle and the
sea Cow or manatee occur in quantity throughout the Monte Cristi
middens. The relative proportion of fish and of mammal bones iden-
tify the former occupants of these sites as fishermen rather than
hunters. This observation is significant in considering the distance
from the sea. Not only bone, but coral and shell were used and
shaped into tools and implements, or into ceremonial objects and ob-
jects of personal adornment by the aboriginal occupants of the region,
In fact, celts or adzes of conch shell (Strombus sp.) recovered by the
expedition outnumbered those shaped from stone. For grating the
roots of the manioc to produce flour for bread making, slabs of brain
coral (Meandrina sp.) were carried the long distance from the sea
shore. Many such improvised graters were uncovered at each of the
sites investigated. Coral was also used in the carved pestles, and in
the effigy figurines which probably served as religious objects. With
regard to implements and decorative objects generally, shell and
bone appear to have been the favored media. This extensive use of
shell and bone in preference to stone or wood appears to have extended
along the entire northern coast of Santo Domingo. Uniformity in the
coast culture of northern Santo Domingo as contrasted with that of
other sections of the island is substantiated in pottery finds from the
same area. The Ciguayan Indians of Samana apparently were the
occupants of the aboriginal village sites of Monte Cristi Province as
well. At no archeological station however along the entire northern
coast of Santo Domingo were middens discovered resembling those
from the caves of Samana Bay. Apparently then, the pre-Arawak
cave dwellers had never become established throughout the island
except in certain favored sections having many caves in the vicinity
of salt water.
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1929 162

ast ? - sf 3 wid

Fic. 143.—The faithful Abraham at work in shell middens of San Gabriel,
an island cave in Samana Bay. The prehistoric occupants of the Samana caves
did not hunt or engage in agriculture. Mollusks were eaten for breakfast,
lunch, and dinner. An occasional turtle provided variety in their diet.

Fic. 144.—The summer home of Senor Andres Socias of Copey, province of
Monte Cristi. Senor Socias, who may be seen standing at the right, is an
enthusiastic archeologist. His collection of Indian relics is the largest in the
island next to that of the National Museum in Santo Domingo City.
INSTITUTION

SMITHSONIAN

164

*SoJe]S UlO}SeayyNOs ay}
UL IJIAYMOS]A PUB ‘LINOSSITY ‘AaSSoUUAaT, WOA} pataAOI1 UdIaq VAPY
poAred ATARIIWIS JEYMOWOS S}I8108 [JaYS “yUasaidat O4 papuoszut
SI Jo}U99 dy} WOT paaAred sinsy oy} yeYM UMOUY JOU ST 4] [Jays
youos B JO diy sy} Wor, padres uRpudd 10 Jos108 W—ZPI ‘DI

‘opOd & podeyd sur
-A1eD YLatds Sty} YOIYM UL UOTSI[O4
aAT}IUId eB JO asue1 apIM A]Sur
-puodsa1109 a4} SayeoIpul SurAres
,, $U9Z ,, JO WAOF SITY} JO uOTNGIy
-SIP 9pIM sy, ‘Osurlu0g oyUeS
utoyyIou jo sjuedn390 d1104sTY
-aid oy} Aq Jojnue ue se pasn
JOp! Jo ,.1Wo9z,, W—obI “91

“ee

‘9X0 UB S1UssoIdo1
aseo sty} ur Ayqeqoid 47
‘Iya ‘AJOAT ‘QUO ‘[JeYS se
elpowt yons uo ajdoed 9A1}
-tuutid Aq pasiour AyUoNb
-1f SUIYS}O OUT, JO WHO]
uvojoid 8 ‘USISop .jOp
pue aps, oY} 90110N
‘MOD Bas JO do}eURU B
JO It JY} WOIT padres 9]}
-sad |jews W— Sri ‘o1y

SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1929 165

Fic. 148.—Three objects of beaten gold. The gold ornaments of the pre-
historic tribes of Santo Domingo are of thin gold leaf. Craftsmanship in
metals on their part did not equal that of aboriginal Central or South Amer-
ica. It resembled rather that of the tribes of Florida.

Itc. 149.-Typical earthenware vessels from the province of Monte Cristi.
The decorative design consists of meandered or straight incised lines termi-
nating in a pit; also of modeled figurine heads. The pottery of Santo Domingo
resembles that of the southeastern United States but appears to be derived
from the Mexican archaic.
166 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

After concluding explorations at the Monte Cristi sites, a visit was
made into the foothills of the central cordillera near the Haitian
border in the vicinity of the Chaquey River. The writer was ac-
companied by Senor Andres Socias of Copey, who had discovered
petroglyphs on some large boulders on the banks of the Chaquey
River near the village of Mara. The writer also seized the opportunity
of studying the large collection of stone implements ana ceremonial
objects assembled by Senor Socias from northwestern Santo Domingo,
west of the valley of the Yaque River. This region apparently con-
stituted the eastern boundary of the aboriginal province of Marien,
whose chief, Goacanagaric, befriended Columbus during his first voy-
age. One of the striking differences observed between Senor Socias’
collection from Marien and the objects recovered by the writer from
Ciguayan sites east of the Yaque River has to do with stone imple-
ments associated with the growing of maize. The Ciguayans east of
the Yaque River apparently did not grow maize and no stone
implements for working maize kernels into four were found by the
writer. In Senor Socias’ collection from northwestern Hispaniola,
also in collections from village sites in the great central plain, east of
Santiago de los Caballeros, mealing stones similar to the Mexican
metate and mano are common, In either area, however, occur flat cir-
cular earthenware griddles showing the universal use of cassava bread.

The ceremonial life of the culturally more advanced Arawak tribes
of central and western Santo Domingo is characterized by the pres-
ence of circular courts walled with stone slabs. The largest of these
courts is near the town of San Juan in the province of Azua. This
court was described by the great explorer Sir Robert Schomburgk in
1851. A smaller circular court was discovered by the writer in the
hills near the headwaters of the Chaquey River. A circle of upright
stones, 300 feet in diameter, surrounds a flat space overlooking the
valley. Two entrances to the court are placed at opposite sides of the
circle. At the exact center stands a stone pillar uncarved except at the
top which has been shaped to represent the head of a god or “ zemi”
in human form. Although the stone-walled court is after a fashion
monumental, it does not compare structurally with the more elaborate
ball courts of the Maya.

Acknowledgment is hereby made to the many officials of the
Dominican government who have extended valuable aid in locating
archeological sites. Especial thanks are due to the Honorable Secre-
tary of the Interior, Doctor Alfonseca, for letters of introduction and
for obtaining the cooperation of many local officials.
DATING OUR BRE EISTGRIC  “PUBRBLO RUINS -

By NEIL M. JUDD,
Curator, Division of American Archeology, U. S. National Museum

For the first time, Indian villages lying within the present United
States and abandoned prior to 1492 have been dated, definitely and
absolutely. No other recent contribution to American archeology
offers such far-reaching possibilities as this; none other has been so
long awaited by students of prehistory. And the methods by which
those ruined villages have finally been dated with reference to our
own calendar smack somewhat of Sherlock Holmes, his inseparable
pipe and reading glass. Archeologists must, perforce, be detectives as
they follow back along the cold trails of primitive man’s advance.

In the present instance, however, the real contribution was made
not by an archeologist but by an astronomer whose knowledge and
infinite patience were commandeered for the purpose by archeologists.
Dr. A. E. Douglass, Director of Steward Observatory, University of
Arizona, is the astronomer in question; annual growth rings in
Arizona pines comprise the text in which he reads both the age of two
score Indian towns long since deserted and the variations of climate
for over 1200 years. Through the researches of Doctor Douglass our
calendar, at least for the southwestern United States, has been ex-
tended to A. D. 700.

The history of the New World, as popularly conceived in this
country, begins with the voyages of Columbus; all that transpired be-
fore is prehistoric. To be sure, Icelandic segas tell of discoveries by
Eric the Red and Thorfinn Karlsefni when the eleventh century was
still in its cradle, but these pioneer journeyings to the bleak Labrador
coast seem to many insufficiently supportec by documentary proof.
Hence our common tendency to credit Columbus with having laid the
foundations on which the written history of the western hemisphere
has since been piled.

Now the archeologist, as a retriever and interpreter of dead Cciv1-
lizations, is vitally concerned with the age of the people he studies.
He seeks always to draw them out of the opaque past and make them
part of that better illuminated story which traces the recorded achieve-
ments of mankind. Rarely, however, does the archeologist find in his

1 Excepting that of Betatakin, all photographs are reproduced by courtesy of
the National Geographic Society.
167
INSTITUTION

SMITHSONIAN

168

‘OIXIFY [B1JUID JO SAITTVA jUeY
“SIP 9JOUL 94} PUB seo) SYR 94} UO sofdood santuid Suoure zo} sUaNYUL Ue pa}ioxe OYUOG Ogang “q ‘y
‘OLII PUL O10 UdaMJaYq “OIIXIPY MON ‘UOAULD OLY Ul aBET[IA JuULZIOdUIT ysour pue ysaBsE] oy} SW—OST ‘oI

baie

SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1929 169

digging factors that may actually be correlated with known human
events. Especially is this so in the New World where only the Maya
erected datable monuments.

Within the United States divers Indian civilizations had taken root,
blossomed, and disintegrated before Columbus was born. To mention
but two, there are the so-called Mound Builders of the Mississippi
Valley and the pre-Hispanic Pueblos of the Southwest. From frag-
ments of their material culture, we have learned much of these dis-
similar peoples and their individual accomplishments ; we have even
pieced together bits of information pertaining to their religious con-
cepts—the very hub on which their daily life revolved. But until the
close of 1929 we had no means of knowing accurately the years during
which these native cultures flourished.

From 1921 to 1927 it was my privilege to conduct explorations for
the National Geographic Society at Pueblo Bonito, most famous, per-
haps, of the great communal centers which mark the very apex of
Pueblo civilization. The architectural development of Pueblo Bonito ;
the material culture of its, 1,200 or more inhabitants ; their conquest of
a semi-arid environment and their defeat, in turn, by forces quite
beyond their control have been briefly presented in earlier numbers of
this series.” But the age of Pueblo Bonito, the years of its rise and
fall, remained until recently a matter of conjecture only.

Of course there were relative dates, determined by a balancing of
the evidence in hand. We knew, for example, that Pueblo Bonito was
older than the now ruined Hopi settlements visited by Pedro de Tobar
and Fray Juan de Padilla, of Coronado’s command, in 1540; we knew
it was younger than hundreds of small communities throughout the
San Juan drainage, and elsewhere. This knowledge acted merely as a
spur toward more precise information. We wanted at least one defi-
nite year. And we finally got it, and much more, after seven years’
painstaking research along dim trails that led us far from our starting
point.

It was on December 8, 1922, at a conference called by the Carnegie
Institution of Washington to consider cyclic phenomena that I first
heard Doctor Douglass describe his use of tree rings in tracing
sun-spot influence. As a mere by-product of his studies, Doctor
Douglass mentioned the fact that in examining sections of prehistoric
beams sent him from Pueblo Bonito and Aztec ruins, in New Mexico,

1 Smithsonian Misc. Coll., Vol. 72, Nos. 6 and 15; Vol. 74, No. 5; Vol. 76,
No. 10; Vol. 77, No. 2; Vol. 78, Nos. 1 and 7; Explorations and Field-Work of

the Smithsonian Institution in 1927.
170 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Fic. 151—Charred beams from the broken walls of Pueblo Bonito disclose
extensive reconstruction, in A. D. 1067.

Fic. 152.—More than 200 young pines were felled in A. D. 1061 to roof this
single Pueblo Bonito kiva.
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, I929 Wl

he had noted a cross identification which showed that the Pueblo
Bonito specimens were cut just 20 years earlier than those from Aztec.
Now it occurred to me at the moment that if it were possible to
determine the time relationship of two ancient buildings from their
ceiling timbers it was also possible, provided beams could be found in
a succession of ruins varying slightly in age, to bring together a se-
quence of annual growth rings that would extend back to the charred
logs of Pueblo Bonito and thus disclose the actual year in which they
were felled. This chance thought served as a stimulus.

Assured of Doctor Douglass’ cooperation, the Research Committee
of the National Geographic Society provided for a beam collecting
expedition in 1923, under my general supervision, and for subsequent
laboratory investigations. The age of Pueblo Bonito was the sole
objective. But that objective proved most elusive; it was pursued
vigorously throughout the entire plateau country and down to Cali-
fornia. Naturally, the timbers from each site visited gave an in-
dependent ring sequence but these were gradually joined into a con-
tinuous record of 586 years. Another series, from living pine forests
near Flagstaff, Arizona, extended from 1925 back to A. D. 1425.
Next came the task of joining the modern rings with the longer, pre-
historic series. More material was needed and this must be pine, the
only medium in which Doctor Douglass could work with confidence.

There followed a second expedition, in 1928, which confined its
efforts largely to the Hopi villages of north-central Arizona. Spanish
chronicles tell of missions constructed there during the first half of the
seventeenth century ; Hopi traditions relate the destruction of those
missions during the Pueblo revolt of 1680. Carved Spanish timbers
were visible in certain Hopi kivas, the subterranean chambers in
which ceremonies were performed by members of male societies.
There was just a chance that, among the largest of these pine beams,
at least one might be found whose rings would reach back beyond our
modern series to connect with the older.

Briefly, the 1928 season produced two notable results: It extended
Doctor Douglass’ Flagstaff records to A. D. 1260 and it pointed out
the localities in which twelfth and thirteenth century ruins rightfully
should exist. The chief difficulty lay in the fact that such ruins, built
in the open, were exposed to the elements ; that their roofing timbers,
unless preserved as charcoal, could not possibly have survived until
the present. Therefore, to cross-date with material already in hand,
search must be made for a settlement constructed about 1275 and
subsequently destroyed by a fire which had been smothered by falling
172 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Fic. 153—Walpi, like the other Hopi villages, was transferred to its present
elevated site following the Pueblo revolt of 1680.

Fic. 154.—Of all the Hopi towns only Oraibi, now rapidly falling into decay,
appears still to occupy its original fifteenth century location.
N ‘SS = 5 S$ BVUOZ
‘CLz1 *q ‘W ul ‘yt Adno9001 0} sSuI[aMp-YII enbsaanjzoid seu

7 : : : Bey
DUD SURID aps eSayY ‘A]JPYD ap WOULD UL paide19 Ser = Uday.AOU JO SP] ees mea q
Ne ; 1 sea A 9S ‘or, ‘Zlz1-09z1 *Q “YW Ul pdjonaysuoj—SS1 “SI;
Re ogand asnofy ayy AA Joye Sivad pospuny OMT —OS1 “OT
—_—
ON
a

EXPLORATIONS, I9

SMITHSONIAN

174 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

masonry before the wood on which it fed was wholly consumed.
More detective work !

The third beam expedition, that of 1929, had its nose close to the
ground. With potsherds serving as guides, members of the party *
visited a dozen or more sites of the desired age. Some of these were
too far from living pines to warrant serious consideration, for pine
only could be used with certainty in our studies and where pines now
stand there, most assuredly, pines formerly stood. Other ruins were
so vast or so utterly demolished and overblown by drifting sand that
location of burned rooms was too largely a matter of chance, con-
sidering the time and funds at our disposal. But, from among the
number, two old villages down among the pine forests bordering the
Mogollon Rim, in Navajo County, Arizona, were finally selected. The
choice proved a happy one for, with a minimum of effort, these two
ruins, at Showlow and Pinedale, respectively, provided the charred
fragments of ceiling beams which convincingly bridged the gap sepa-
rating the modern and the prehistoric ring sequences and brought to
successful conclusion investigations which had their inception in a
Washington conference on entirely unrelated matters.

Thus, primarily through the researches of Doctor Douglass, aided
by several of my archeological co-workers, the National Geographic
Society has made an unparalleled contribution by extending United
States history nearly six centuries beyond Columbus’ voyage of 1492.
The earliest beam recovered from Pueblo Bonito was cut in A. D.
gtg, the very year when German nobles were choosing Henry I as
their king; the latest timber represented in our collection from this
ruin was felled in 1130. For reasons quite unknown to us the Boniti-
ans developed a reconstruction complex about A. D. 1070 and, wholly
unconscious of the ruthless sword William the Conqueror was then
swinging throughcut England, instituted extensive alterations within
their four-storied, communal home in Chaco Canyon. Like other
Pueblo groups, the Bonitians were peaceful farmer-folk; they prac-
ticed a democratic form of self government 700 years before the
Pilgrim Fathers dropped anchor off Provincetown in 1620. The

‘Dr. Douglass and the writer; Dr. Harold S. Colton, Director of the Museum
of Northern Arizona, at Flagstaff, and Lyndon L. Hargrave of the same insti-
tution. The services of Mr. Hargrave, well versed in Hopi prehistory,
were generously placed at our disposal by Dr. Colton and his Board of Trustees—
a courtesy inadequately acknowledged by this brief reference.

The later excavations at Showlow and Pinedale were supervised by Mr. Emil
W. Haury, of Arizona State University; those at Wide Ruin and Kokopnyama,
by Mr. Hargrave and his assistant, Mr. E. C. Greene, Jr.
Fic. 157.—The cliff-dwellings of Mummy Cave, in Canyon del Muerto,
Arizona, were built in A. D. 1253-1284 upon the superimposed rubbish of
four earlier stages of communal development.

A single, fragmentary beam from Cliff Palace, Mesa Verde Na-
tional Park, Colorado, gave the date A. D. 1073, but the village probably was
still inhabited a hundred years later.

12 175

Fic. 158.
176 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Bonitians, like other Pueblo builders, added to their terraced town
as necessity required. They razed and replaced dwellings with sur-
prising disregard of the physical labor involved ; logs they felled and
trimmed with stone axes were used over and over again. As evidence
of conservative Pueblo habits it is interesting to note that, in Oraibi,
Doctor Douglass uncovered a pine timber which had been utilized
more than 500 vears.

That the better informed archeologists, tracing the development
and spread of Pueblo civilization, know whereof they spoke is well
indicated by the Douglass tree-ring chronology. For example, Cliff
Palace, in the Mesa Verde National Park, Colorado, was recognized
by many as among the oldest major cliff-dwellings of the Southwest
yet distinctly younger than Pueblo Bonito; Betatakin and Keet Seel,
out in the northern Navajo country, were regarded by the same
authorities as perhaps the last inhabited cave ruins of the San Juan
drainage. Now we know absolutely, from the mute record of their
ceiling beams, that at least one log was cut for Cliff Palace in A. D.
1073; that Spruce Tree House was inhabited nearly two centuries
later ; that White House pueblo, in Canyon de Chelly, dates from 1060
to 1275; that 13 timbers were felled for Betatakin during the 17
years following A. D. 1260; that the seven Keet Seel logs represented
in our collection were cut in the decade beginning 1274.

Thus in seeking the date of Pueblo Bonito, the National Geographic
Society expeditions have ascertained the ages of approximately 40
other ruins. Given beam samples, charred or otherwise, with outside
ring intact, almost any prehistoric southwestern settlement may be
brought within our modern calendar by the Douglass chronology.
Material is already in hand from Basket Maker sites; from Pueblo I
pit dwellings. It remains only to bridge the gap between them and
the oldest annual growth ring found in Pueblo Bonito before we can
time the beginnings of sedentary life in the Southwest and the in-
ception of agriculture.

In the December, 1929, issue of the National Geographic Magazine
Doctor Douglass tells the story of the Society's three beam expeditions
and something of their results. His more complete presentation, in-
cluding a description of methods, will accompany my own report on
the Pueblo Bonito explorations, now in preparation. Not until this
latter volume is issued can adequate recognition be given those several
individuals who have generously contributed to the success of this
magnificent undertaking.
NI ZONA SACRIFICES HEK PREHISTORIC CANALS?
By NEIEIM> JUDD:

Curator, Division of American Archeology, U. S. National Museum

What now remains of the justly famous prehistoric canals of the
Salt and Gila river valleys, Arizona? To answer that question for the
Bureau of American Ethnology I paid a hasty visit to the areas in
question in mid-September, 1920.

Most of us are prone to forget that what formerly comprised the
the most extensive irrigation projects in the Americas, if not, indeed,
in the whole world, were undertaken by primitive farmers of south-
central Arizona. No where else, so far as I am aware, had similar
operations on so vast a scale been attempted prior to the present era
of steam shovels and drag-line dredges

In 1893 Mr. Frederick W. Hodge, formerly of the Smithsonian
Institution and a member of the Hemenway Archaeological Expedi-

tions of 1886-8, wrote: “. . .. the principal canals constructed and
used by the ancient inhabitants of the Salado valley controlled the
irrigation of at least 250,000 acres . . . . at least 150 miles of ancient

main irrigating ditches may readily be traced, some of which meander
southward from the river a distance of 14 miles.” ©

Less trustworthy observers have even doubled the above figures ; on
the basis of the acreage supposedly cultivated, have estimated a pre-
historic population as high as 200,000, Now the value of such esti-
mates varies directly with the experience and qualifications of the indi-
vidual reporter. Numerous factors must be taken into consideration.
Not every passerby can view the divers works of prehistoric man with
the calm impartiality of the trained archeologist. For my own part, |
have no first hand opinion to express as to the original number and
extent of Arizona’s ancient canals. They were mostly gone when |
went to see them. And most of the references pertaining to them do
raise doubts of one sort or another.

But let us assume that Mr. Hodge is substantially correct. One
hundred and fifty miles of canals averaging seven feet deep and thirty

* Photographs by courtesy of the National Geographic Society.

* Prehistoric Irrigation in Arizona. The American Anthropologist, Vol. 6,
No. 3, pp. 323-330. Washington, 1893. Earlier references to this subject are
noted by Dr. O. A. Turney in a continuing article, “ Prehistoric Irrigation,”
published in The Arizona Historical Review, Vol. 2, 1920.
178 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Fic. 159—One of the prehistoric canals preserved by Phcenix, Arizona, in its
Park of the Four Waters.

Fic. 160——An ancient canal, at the upper right, was bisected by Salt River
long before the Swilling ditch, in the foreground, was dug about 1868.
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1929 179

feet wide is no mean achievement for a primitive people without beasts
of burden; with no excavating equipment other than stone and
wooden implements. We have as yet no certain knowledge as to just
what Indian groups accomplished this stupendous task but we do
know, from archeological deductions, that the work was done by
hand and that small baskets were the most likely containers employed
in the removal of excavated material.

If, as contractors insist, a husky laborer can pick down and shovel
into waiting cars 12 cubic yards of loosely-cemented gravel in an
eight-hour working day, then anyone so inclined may figure the time

<b:

Sec ON SS ee & ee oe”
: —_ * ist = RE
or a et eee

Fic. 161—Pima children, no doubt, had constructed a pebble maze on the
floor of Canal Fourteen during the summer of 1929.

involved in the construction of the Salt River valley canals. I have not
done it for several reasons; for one, I have no statistics on the rela-
tive efficiency of an eight-pound steel pick and a river cobblestone,
sharpened by the flaking process and used as a grubbing tool. But I
do know the average Indian farmer of the Southwest is at his self-
appointed tasks from sunrise to sunset when necessary and I know,
further, that same Indian will accomplish more in his own behalf than
he will for any employer. With stone and wooden tools; with baskets
as precursors of wheelbarrows, the native populations of the Salt and
Gila river valleys performed tasks the very magnitude of which as-
tonish us of a mechanical age.
180 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Arizona’s prehistoric canals were not individual enterprises. [Entire
communities joined hands to achieve that on which their very ex-
istence depended. By preference, these folk were farmers in a desert
environment. They waged a constant struggle against seemingly in-
superable odds ; asked no favors ; required no cornucopia for content-
ment. But without successful harvests their immediate future loomed
darkly ; without water, food crops could not mature ; without canals.
water could not be conveyed to fields suitable for cultivation. Canals
meant water and water meant life. Hence those man-made ditches
that reached into the river channels with flimsy brush and stone dams
and meandered down valley long miles to isolated villages whose dun
adobe dwellings clustered about a massive edifice of thick, earthen
walls.

In 1926 Dr. Byron Cummings, Director of the Arizona State Mu-
seum, surveyed 40-odd miles of ancient canals in the Giia River Valley ;
in 1922, Dr. O. A. Turney, of Phoenix, published * his map of the still
larger canal systems bordering the Salt River. These timely surveys
must find place among our permanent records. They cannot be re-
peated and it is already too late to check them for possible error. The
old canals are mostly gone now, a sacrifice to agriculture and to urban
development. Modern homes and office buildings ; cotton fields, vine-
yards and acres of lettuce have recently spread over garden plots
where primitive folk cultivated maize, beans and squashes.

Monster dams, named in honor of two ex-presidents, have been
raised to impound flood waters which are thereafter equitably dis-
tributed, even during the hot dry months, to ever thirsty fields. Newly
dug ditches often follow their untimed predecessors in wide curves
across the gentle, cacti-covered slopes of the valley. The recent, re-
markable increase in population of Phoenix and its neighboring com-
munities is basically owing to a fairly constant water supply con-
veyed by this far-flung network of modern canals and the consequent,
successful cultivation of desert soil.

But this expansion, this evidence of industry has brought with
it almost complete obliteration of the prehistoric irrigation systems.
These latter made possible the first real civilization in Salt River
Valley—a native Indian civilization based on agriculture in which the
entire community directly participated. Of the 230 miles of ancient

1The Arizona Republican, Phoenix, November 22, 1922; reproduced in “ The
Land of the Stone Hoe” (Turney), 1924, and in the Arizona Historical Review,
Vol. 2, No. 2, 1929. The map supposedly includes the earlier surveys by C. A.
Garlick, of the Hemenway Expedition, and that of H. R. Patrick, published in
Bull. 1, Phoenix Free Museum, 1903.
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1929 181

Fic. 162.—Near its present junction with Salt River, Canal Fourteen measures
‘ ; ; : aon
8 feet deep with a maximum width of 60 feet.

Fic. 163.—Greasewood and catclaw offer no obstacle to the giant grading
machines employed on the San Carlos project.

Fic. 164.—Pima houses are usually built of suhuaro cactus ribs, plastered with
mud. When their water supply fails, the Pima move.
182 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

canals represented on the Turney map, I venture the guess that less
than ten per cent are now traceable. And these only because the
tractor and the gang-plow have not yet reached them.

In its Park of the Four Waters, the city of Phoenix has happily
preserved remnants of three old canals. Eleven miles to the east there
remains another magnificent section (fig. 162) ; vestiges of still others
may be seen, if they have not been leveled and plowed over since last
September, north of the Sierra Estrella, some 13 miles southwest of
Phoenix. Other sections survive here and there but chiefly on Indian
lands. The brush and stone dams that originally turned the river cur-
rent into these ditches were lost with each passing flood; their very
sites have since been washed away as the river widened and deepened
its pebbled channel. In every instance, I am reasonably sure, the old
canals now open their thirsty mouths at least 10 feet above the present
water level (fig. 160). But this fact does not of itself necessarily indi-
cate an age of more than 10 or 12 centuries for the canals.

The 50 major buildings and the uncounted lesser structures that
Cushing called Los Muertos in 1887 have gone to fill the several old
ditches he saw nearby. No trace remains today of this once populous
and important settlement. Where it formerly stood, contented cows
now munch in green meadows. And what is true here is generally
true elsewhere throughout the Salt River Valley.

On the Pima Reservation, south of the Gila, 56,000 acres of virgin
land were being prepared in 1929 for Indian farmers. As I happened
by, giant tractors were pulling mesquite trees out by the roots ; were
raking, grading and smoothing the sandy soil at the rate of 20 acres a
day. Of the several prehistoric canals which crossed these new fields
a year ago, one dim meandering channel alone remained. It, too, was
doubtless wholly erased within a few days. Here the engineer is
justly proud of the efficiency with which his snorting machines per-
form; of the speed and sureness with which a colossal undertaking is
being consumated. What is past, is past! Lingering vestiges of a
prehistoric civilization from which the entire nation might learn are
wiped out, destroyed, with a wave of the hand. Like those of the Salt
River Valley, the ancient canals bordering the Gila have mostly been
sacrificed to twentieth-century hopes. A generation hence, some vague
tradition may prevail among the Pima and Papago of vast ancestral
canals through which Arizona’s formidable deserts were first tem-
porarily vanquished.

Each succeeding civilization builds on the remains of its prede-
cessors !
PREIS TORIC MOUNDS IN ° THE VICINITY OF
AVI AS BAY LORTDA

By M. W. STIRLING,
Chief, Bureau of American Ethnology

In prehistoric times the region around Tampa Bay, Florida, was the
site of many villages, the inhabitants of which subsisted principally
upon the fish and mollusks which abounded in the shallow waters of
the bay. The kitchenmiddens which arose as a result of the accumu-
lation of refuse from these villages constitute the largest shell mounds
on the American continent. The writer spent the months of March
and April, 1929, in making a survey of the mounds in this neighbor-
hood.

Because of the conspicuous nature of these towering heaps of shells,
it is a comparatively simple matter to locate the ancient sites, despite
the fact that during the last 75 years countless tons of this material
have been hauled away to be used in the construction of roads. In
numerous instances mounds more than 30 feet in height and covering
many acres of ground have been almost completely obliterated within
the past few years. In many cases the houses of the village were con-
structed upon these refuse heaps, so that their destruction entails also
destruction of all traces of the habitations.

During the writer’s survey, more than 40 sites were located upon
Tampa Bay alone. At the present time but a single example of one of
the large shell mounds remains undisturbed. The huge refuse heap en
Cockroach Point, rising to an elevation of 50 feet, has escaped the dep-
redations of the road builder because of its comparative inacces-
sibility. The mound rises in a succession of terraces, each of which
was formerly occupied by houses. The flat summit of the mound was
undoubtedly crowned by a temple, from which point it is not unlikely
that dark-skinned observers watched in fear and wonder the progress
of De Soto’s ships as they followed the winding channel into Tampa
Bay.

In early historical times it is known that this region was oc-
cupied by the now extinct Calusa Indians, while immediately to the
north dwelt their neighbors, the Timucua. History gives us scant
information concerning the language and customs of these tribes.
The problem of the archeologist is to find more of their arts and
customs from the unintentional record they have left behind in their

183
184 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Fic. 165——Ancient village site at Safety Harbor, Florida, now overgrown with
dense tangle of vegetation.

Itc. 166.—Manegrove at Cockroach Point, Florida. The elevation at the right
corner of the picture is the large mound.
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1929 185

Fic. 167.-The Weeden Island mound showing two burials in place.
186 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

burials and refuse heaps, and to discover if possible what people
preceded them into this region.

Excavations continued at Weeden Island have finally cast some
definite light upon the problem of culture sequence, when a mound
containing secondary burials and pottery of an advanced Muskho-
gean type was found erected over a cemetery which contained primary
flexed burials in graves lined with oyster shell and containing only a
few fragments of a crude, undecorated pottery.

Preliminary tests were made at the large mounds near Safety
Harbor, which reveal a site similar to that on Weeden Island, further
excavation of which should add considerably to our knowledge of
this culture.

The largest sand mound which the writer has yet seen was located
near Palma Sola, and it is hoped this coming winter to conduct ex-
cavations at this place. The village to which the mound belonged was
situated near the entrance to Tampa Bay, and was probably the largest
of all the Tampa Bay sites. Unfortunately the refuse heap, described
by old inhabitants as having been the largest of the Florida West
Coast, has been almost entirely carried away.

A good beginning has now been made in an area in which very
little systematic archeological work has been done. It is hoped that
this data, added to that which it is hoped will be accumulated during
the next few years, will definitely establish the line between the Calusa
and the Timucua, their possible relation to tribes in the north or the
West Indies, and to the peoples who preceded them—probably the
first discoverers of Florida.
TWO ANCIENT INDIAN CULTURES IN EASTERN
ARIZONA

By FRANK H. H.. ROBERTS, JR.,

Archeologist, Bureau of American Ethnology

Early developments in the unfolding of the sedentary Indian cul-
tures of the prehistoric Southwest present a problem upon which con-
siderable archeological interest is centered at the present time. The
work of the last 25 years has done much to complete the portion of
the story which deals with the later stages, the periods of the great
communal houses and massive cliff-dwellings, but preceding chapters
are for the most part only outlined. In an effort to supply some of
the needed details the writer, assisted by Mr. J. A. Jeangon, former
special archeologist for the Bureau of Ethnology, spent the field
season of 1929 conducting excavations in eastern Arizona. The site
investigated is on the old Long H Ranch, between St. John’s and
Houck, 40 miles west of the present Indian village of Zuni.

The locality presents several features of interest besides those of
a purely archeological nature. Close to the ranch houses, one half mile
from the ruins, are two small lakes to which the Zuni attribute special
ceremonial significance. One is very salty and distinctly red in color
(fig. 168), while the other is only slightly salty and has a pronounced
green hue. Both were found to figure rather prominently in certain
of the Zuni myths and the writer was informed that quadrennial
pilgrimages are made to them for the purpose of depositing prayer
plumes and offerings of turquoise. Around the borders of these lakes
are a number of fresh water springs which probably were an im-
portant factor in the choice of the location by the people whose house
and village remains attract the archeologist.

Three miles south of the ruins investigated is a considerable group
of petrified logs, probably an eastern outcropping of the petrified for-
est which lies several miles farther west. Some of the logs, exposed
on the surface of the ground, are 50 feet long and from 4 to 5 feet in
diameter (fig. 169). In many instances the stone is brightly colored
and, judging from the many fragments found in the ruins and refuse
mounds, was extensively collected by the prehistoric settlers. Several
small ruins in the immediate vicinity show that the builders even
went so far as to use blocks of the petrified wood in erecting walls.

187
188 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Fic. 168.—The red lake, 40 miles west of the Indian village of Zuni, New
Mexico. The background in this picture is characteristic of the region.

Fic. 169.—One of the petrified logs south of the ruins.
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1929 189g

The archeological remains proved to be of two types representing
distinct horizons. The oldest, pit houses, belong to the very begin-
nings of the Pueblo cycle, while the more recent represent the fully
developed peoples of the Classic Era. The writer had no intention of
excavating a ruin of the pueblo type when work was begun on the pit
houses, but as investigations progressed he became more and more
impressed with the idea that it might be possible to obtain some
stratigraphic evidence indicative of the exact relationship between the
two groups. With such a possibility in contemplation the debris was
removed from a medium sized ruin, the north end of which was found
to rest upon and entirely cover the remains of a pit house. This defi-
nitely established the priority of the latter form of dwelling.

Information obtained from the ruins of 17 pit houses makes it pos-
sible to briefly summarize the main features of such dwellings. They
had consisted of roughly circular or oval pits, ranging from 5 to 8
feet in depth and 10 to 25 feet in diameter (figs. 170 and 171), roofed
over with a pole, brush, and plaster superstructure supported on four
upright posts placed in the floor some distance from the walls. This
plaster covered roof was probably only sufficiently elevated above the
ground level to provide for drainage. A single opening in the center
of the roof served as both smoke hole and entrance. The sides and
bottom of the pit, the major portion of the dwelling, were covered with
a thick coating of carefully smoothed mud plaster. Interior tfur-
nishings were simple. In the center of each room was a fire pit and
adjacent to it a depression in which the base end of the ladder, used in
entering and leaving the structure, rested. At the southeast side was a
ventilator consisting of a short tunnel leading from the room to the
bottom of a vertical shaft, the upper end of which opened to the air on
the surface of the ground beyond the confines of the house.

The ventilator was just what its name implies. When a fire was
burning in the pit in the center of the room the heat rising from it
and passing off through the smoke hole at the top would have a
tendency to draw fresh, cold air down through the shaft and tunnel
and into the room. This same feature is found in the ceremonial
chambers, or kivas, of the many roomed houses of later periods.
Evidence has shown that the feature was not originally designed for
such a purpose but represents a modified survival of the entrance
found in older houses, dwellings of the period just preceding that to
which the Arizona ruins belong. In most of the houses there was an
upright slab of stone set in the floor between the ventilator opening
and the fire pit (fig. 170). This is called the deflector and was so
190 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Fic. 170.—Remains of a typical pit house. Opening in center of wall is the
ventilator, standing stone the deflector.

Fic. 171.—View of another pit house. Remains of holes for wall poles may be
seen at back of bench.
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1929 IgI

A

Fic. 172—Portion of pueblo ruin. Walls in foreground are of adobe, those
in the rear show stone construction.

E
;

si,

Fic. 173.—Kiva in pueblo ruin showing deep recess above the ventilator

opening.
192 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

placed to prevent the inrushing air from blowing directly on the fire.
Many of the rooms had a second stone which could be used to close
the vent opening entirely if so desired (fig. 170).

Houses of this type were found in clusters of from four to six,
probably representing family or clan units. A number of these units
gathered together would constitute a small village.

At the east or southeast side of each unit was a trash mound where
the refuse from the houses had been deposited. These mounds had
also served as the burial places for the dead. [Each interment was
accompanied by mortuary offerings of pottery and, as the deceased
had been placed in the grave bedecked with articles of personal adorn-
ment, many fine specimens of shell bracelets, beads, and pendants were
obtained. These articles of material culture together with the in-
formation on house types makes possible the drawing of a fairly
complete picture of the life of the people during the early period in
that district.

The building which belonged to the later period was found to have
been an L-shaped structure of 49 rooms and 4 kivas or ceremonial
chambers. Its walls were of two types. Some had been constructed
of stone, others of adobe mud (fig. 172). That stone was not used
throughout was probably due to the scarcity of such material in the
immediate neighborhood. This communal house was not erected from
a preconceived plan. Four distinct stages in its growth were plainly
evident. To a small structure of eight rooms and a kiva, six more
rooms and a second kiva were added. Then after a time 10 more
rooms and a third kiva were erected. The building as it then stood
was occupied for a considerable period before the final group of 25
rooms and the fourth kiva was built.

The refuse mound, also the cemetery, was located a short distance
east of the communal structure. Another example of stratigraphic
evidence was found here. It was discovered that the waste material,
the refuse from the village, had been deposited on and completely cov-
ered the mound formed by the filled-in ruins of a pit house cluster.
This further demonstrated the greater antiquity of the cruder house
types. The burials of this mound were also accompanied by mortuary
offerings of various kinds which aid in rounding out the complex of
the culture.

Outstanding in the results from the excavations is the evidence that
the pit house, a development of an earlier culture, survived in the
Pueblo horizon in this district, while in the north, along the San
Juan River, people belonging to the same cultural level were build-
ing and living in rectangular structures the major portions of which
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1929 193

Fic. 174—Characteristic pottery from the pit houses.

Fic. 175.—Typical vessels from the pueblo ruin.
194 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

were above the surface of the ground. The main feature of interest
in the pueblo ruin, in addition to its stratigraphic relationship to the
pit houses and the manner in which it illustrates the development and
growth of such a communal center, is its suggested relationship to
the San Juan cultures in the north. This is clearly shown in the pot-
tery and by the circular ceremonial chambers or kivas. The latter have
pilasters to support roof timbers and pronounced wall niches above the
ventilators (fig. 173). These characteristics have long been considered
typical of the San Juan kivas and have not been thought to have been
constructed by peoples living outside that area. Their presence in the
Arizona region demonstrates how widespread the northern influence
was at that particular period.
STUDYING THE INDIANS OF NEW MEXICO AND
CALIFORNIA

BY ba ARRINGTON;
Ethnologist, Bureau of American Ethnology

Research during the summer of 1929 took me among Indians repre-
senting three distinct cultural regions. My first field-work took me to
the mountains of New Mexico where further attack was made on
the riddle of the Pueblo languages and cultures. Although a consider-
able knowledge of the native languages and dialects was already
current in this region among the Spaniards of the 18th and early 19th
centuries, they were never aware of any relationship between these
tongues and those of tribes outside the Pueblo area proper. After the
classification sponsored by Major Powell over 40 years ago, it became
the standard lore of textbooks that the Pueblo Indians speak four
stock languages, Tanoan, Keresan, Zunian, and Shoshonean, and that
only the last named has outside affiliations, namely that of the Hopi as
related to the Paiute tribes to the north and west and more distantly to
the Aztec. When I began my studies of Pueblo languages I early
found that Tanoan is closely related to Kiowa, a Plains tribe lying to
the eastward of the Tanoan.

This summer’s field-work was concerned with Tanoan and Zunian
and to some extent with the language of Acoma. An elaborate com-
parison was made of the Zuii and Tanoan languages with the result
that the genetic relationship which I have long believed in was defi-
nitely established. The phonetics of the two languages are identical
throughout. Among other similarities, they both have series of clusives
modified by the glottis into three kinds of release, represented by t, t,
and th. Keresan also shares this system. This and other linguistic
similarities are also found in the Shoshonean stock, and I am confi-
dent that I have demonstrated that all four “stocks” of Pueblo
languages are genetically related to each other in varying degree,
although we have here no close relationship like that of the Tanoan
to the Kiowa.

‘

A complete Zuni alphabet of kymograph tracings showing sounds
and their combinations was made and mounted and is ready for the
engraver. A Zufi ethnozoology following the same lines as the Tewa
ethnozoology earlier published by the Bureau was brought to com-
pletion with the help of Miss Anna Risser. The subject of Zuni ethno-

195
“{injuad ysed dy} JO SaTUIAIS dy} UI ,, BIUIOFIPeD JO Soqiiy,, SI
*JURULIOJUL SUIPIIM UL pasn sy WOYM WURUIOJUT SIaMOg UAAI}G ‘AT [Tq VOW
urn ues se] dy} ‘OURSIO[OS UOUadSY ‘s1JY— 41 “OT -[BS JO Jajsis ‘WURUIIOJUL YMA ‘Y4NIIO suUeYy “SITY—'9Z1 “OILY

INSTITUTION

SMITHSONIAN

196

SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1929 197

botany met with even more success. Miss Anna O. Shepard made
a large collection of plants which have been identified by the National
Herbarium. While at Zuni a version of the creation myth was secured
and partly recorded. It is planned to publish this in three columns,
Zuni, Zuni-Spanish dialect, and English, accompanied by illustrations
made by the Indian who told the myth.

Fic. 178.—Barbara, mother of Mrs. Ascencion Solorsano.

Passing from the arid mountains of New Mexico to the forested
mountains of northern California, I undertook further work on the
Karuk tribe of the lower central Klamath River. I was fortunate in
securing as an informant the sister of the famous Salmon Billy who
acted as Steven Powers’ informant when he was on the Klamath in
the early seventies. A rare cycle of songs was obtained from Happy
Jack, an old Karuk man. The Karuk work now comprises by far the
most exhaustive amount of material that has ever been assembled on
a California tribe, including grammar, dictionary, myths, sociology,
Fic. 179.—San Juan Indian blackberrying basket, made by Mrs. Ascencion
Solorsano. The material is willow and tule. It was lined with sycamore leaves
or cutgrass to keep the berries from falling through the interstices. U. S.
National Museum Cat. No. 107866.
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1929 199

Fria. 180.—Point of Pines, a typical bit of seaccast near Monterey, California,
mentioned in the mythology of the San Juan Indians.

Fic, 181.—Gabilan Peak near San Juan, California.
200 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

kinship terms, ceremonies, ethnozoology, ethnobotany, ethnomineral-
ogy, tribenames, placenames, personal names, material culture, daily
life, religion, genealogies, and history. All the material has been ob-
tained in text, following the strictly scientific method of obtaining
ethnological information.

Without doubt the great triumph of the present field-work has
been the complete rescuing of the language and much of the ethnology
of the San Juan tribe of California in an almost miraculous way
through a very aged and desperately ill informant, Mrs. Ascencion
Solorsano, at present living in the environs of Monterey. Having
learned the language, which has scarcely been spoken since 1850,
through the peculiar circumstance that both her mother and father
who were fullblooded Indians talked the language together all their
lives while no one else was using it, the mother (see fig. 178) dying at
84 years of age and the father at 82, she has retained the knowledge
of an extinct language and will live long enough to furnish a complete
record of all she knows, thus filling a great blank in California
ethnology.

The San Juan are a key tribe, lying midway between the northern
and southern California coast cultures. They exhibit many interest-
ing transitory cultural features as exemplified in their basketry,
ceremonies, mythology, and other features. We see at one moment
similarities to the Pomo; next we are reminded of the peoples to the
south. Mrs. Solorsano during a good part of her life has been recog-
nized as a ‘‘ doctora”’ so that her knowledge of native doctoring prac-
tices and of herbs is unusually complete. In spite of her age and in-
firmities her mind remains remarkably clear while her memory is ex-
ceptional, recalling in detail numberless incidents of her childhood at
old San Juan. No greater piece of good fortune has ever attended
ethnological research in California than this eleventh hour rescue of the
language and customs of a once important Indian tribe.
tA LEAGUE OF NATIONS” OF THE IROQUOIS
INDIANS IN CANADA

By Jp Ne BS aE Witt,
Ethnologist, Bureau of American Ethnology

The Indians of the Six Nations of the Iroquois dwelling in Ontario,
Canada, and in the State of New York formed the subject of my field
researches during the summer of 1929. My first and longest stop was
in the city of Brantford, Ontario, Canada, situated several miles
westward from the Grant of land to the Six Nations. Assisted by
an Onondaga and a Cayuga informant my first work was a critical
revision of the Onondaga texts of nine myths relating to the Air or
Wind Gods. This study yielded satisfactory results, not only in the
matter of translation and interpretation, but as well in the recovery
of the personage of the Echo God, de‘hot'’aa’, and also that of the
Whistling God, Djinaga’iha‘, as other members of the aerial hierarchy
of Iroquoian mythic thought. From a capable informant, Chief John
Buck, Jr., an Onondaga-Tutelo mixed blood, I recorded in Onondaga
text a most interesting historical tradition detailing the northward mi-
gration of the Tutelo (Siouan) tribe from its southern habitat in
Virginia and North Carolina to the country of the Cayuga in what is
now the State of New York and the negotiations preceding it. This
tradition is of unusual interest because it embodies references to a
number of customs and especially intertribal amenities at an early day
and customary precautions taken for such a journey of a tribal people
through the lands of other hostile peoples. Among the Iroquois simi-
lar historical traditions are conspicuous by their very paucity. The
only other tradition of this character recorded in native text is the
one I obtained detailing the life of the great Iroquois statesman,
Deganawida, and his part in the founding of the League of the
Iroquois.

In 1898 Mr. Seth Newhouse, then a Mohawk Chief, had completed
the collection of a considerable amount of undigested material relat-
ing to the laws and structure of the League of the Iroquois, upon
which he had earnestly worked without compensation more than 20
years. He had undertaken this arduous task, however, at the sugges-
tion of the Council of the Six Nations of Ohsweken, Canada. In this
undertaking Chief Newhouse, preeminently a master of his mother
tongue, the Mohawk, made a most serious mistake by recording the

201
202 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

information he was collecting in very broken English. Consequently,
many passages in his work were equivocal, while others conveyed a
sense quite contrary to that intended. Furthermore, the material he
collected was not arranged in an orderly manner according to topics.
He had failed to grasp the fundamental principles of the structure
of the Institution of the League of the Iroquois. Twice he sub-
mitted his compilation to the Six Nations Council for acceptance, but
each time it was rejected. Another serious objection to the Newhouse
collection arose from the fact that Chief Newhouse, quite uncon-
sciously, it may be, frequently infused his own personal opinion into
what purported to be historical tradition. Nevertheless, I pursuaded
Chief Newhouse to translate the material which he had collected into

Fre. 182.—Mr. and Mrs. Alexander Sherry with Miss Ruby Elliot, their
granddaughter, Ohsweken, Canada. The Sherrys are both typical Tuscarora
and the oldest persons living of this tribe.

the excellent Mohawk of which he was a perfect master, in order to
preserve fine examples of Mohawk forensic diction which it was next
to impossible to obtain otherwise.

So by a rigid comparison of this Mohawk translation with other
kindred material in the Onondaga and the Cayuga dialects relating
to the same aspects of the League, I sought to conserve in the New-
house material what accorded with historical tradition and to eliminate
what was due to the personal opinion of Newhouse. The residue then
in its contents accords in a confirmatory manner with similar material
obtained from the other dialects, and is embodied 1n excellent Mohawk.

With the assistance of Mr. Alexander Sherry and wife I was
enabled to record a valuable list of Tuscarora proper names. This
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1929 203

aged couple are typical Tuscarora persons, for they both claim de-
scent from grandparents who emigrated in the 18th century directly
from North Carolina, the ancient home of the Tuscarora tribe.
Mr. and Mrs. Sherry are both past 75 years of age.

At the village of Ohsweken, I visited the newly completed Lady
Willingdon Hospital, where I was delighted to see four babies and
their Iroquois mothers ; the youngsters were all less than 24 hours old,
and they and their mothers were receiving the best of hospital atten-
tion. This institution was built at the suggestion and under the
patronage of Lady Willingdon, the gracious wife of the present Gov-
ernor General of Canada. It was opened in 1928, and is fully equipped
with the most modern appliances and appointments. It is an institu-

| l

U

-

Bee ten > Oo IER I cote Pais

Fic. 183.—The Lady Willingdon Hospital at Ohsweken, Ontario, Canada.
Completed in 1928.

tion that was much needed for both service and for instruction in the
care and treatment of diseases among these people.

In the course of my work I purchased a ceremonial set of wampum
strings of exceptional interest and value, the use of which is required
in the delivery of the Requickening Address (Ado"daks“ha’) of the
Council of Condolence and Installation of Federal Chiefs of the
League of the Iroquois. This set consists of 15 items or rather parts,
consisting of one or two cords of wampum, each about six inches in
length, to correspond with the 15 themes or burdens of the Requick-
ening Address mentioned above. These token cords of wampum
are strung with white and purple wampum in accordance with a
fixed pattern, with the exception of the first and the tenth which are
composed entirely of purple beads of wampum.
204 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Each cord of this set of wampum bears its own specific designation
which is derived from the name of the Theme or Burden of Hurts of
Life of the Requickening Address, for which it is a token. In fixed
order these designations are as follows: First Section: I. Tears or
One's Eyes.’ IJ. One's Kars: or Passes* into the Body. IMl:"Ones
Throat or Passes into the Body (=Spirit). Second Section of Re-
quickening Addresses. IV. Within One’s Breast. V. The Trail of
Blood from the Death Mat. VI. The Thick Darkness of the Night
of Grief. VIT. ‘One's’ Host *Sky. VII One's: Loss of the Sum
IX. At the Mound of Upturned Clay,—the Grave. X. Twenty, the
Cost,—1. e., the Penalty for Homicide. XI. The Hearth of the Home,
Where One Circles the Fire. XII. The Woman,—Our Mother.

~

tt

Me eae

Fic. 184.—Chief John Buck’s home, a loghouse, and two of his children.
Six Nations, Canada.

XIII. The Federal Chief, Ne” Roya’ne‘r. XIV. The Mind’s Loss of
Reason, And XV. The Ever-Burning Signal Torch And the Short
Cord of Wampum Out of the Aging Pouch of Skin.

It may be worthy of record here that the Ritual of the Requicken-
ing Address, like the other six save one, of the Council of Condolence
and Installation, is composed of two Sections. I recall this fact here
because I have been unable to find an Iroquois informant who can
give the reason for this grouping of the contents of six Rituals into
two sections and because I myself have not found so far a satisfactory
explanation of this matter, although I have had this mysterious ques-
tion to solve for many years.

I also made a final redraft of a translation of the text of the tra-
ditional biography of the great Iroquois statesman, Deganawida, in

EXPLORATIONS,

SMITHSONIAN

TaN ‘OSMOBIAS
esepuouyd) ‘esepuou() ue ‘suo

Jvou uot}
AT Jou

BAIOSOY

(2

eer

= 981

SOE

r

|

YAO K Mo

“KN ‘usoques ‘eroreosn
jeoidAy B@ ‘May UUY AT[eS

L
Sd]

N

C

P|

8

I

‘OI

ee es a ee

206 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

which occurs the noteworthy Farewell Address of this chieftain to
the Federal Council of the League when he resigned from it when he
felt that he had completed his work.

The great difficulty encountered in attempting a translation of such
a document lies in the fact that in large measure its words and phrases
have either a forensic, a legal, or a ritualistic, denotation, which may
be far removed from its sense in the daily speech of the people. An
example of this figurative employment of ordinary words is the em-
ployment of the obsolescent term for mat in the sense of land or coun-
try, and qualified by other highly metaphorical terms. Given the ex-
pression, meaning the great white mat, one must discover its forensic
meaning, a land covered with peace, a country covered with good
health ; also the use of the word meaning day for year, season, or time.
It is almost impossible to find an Iroquois of today who can under-
stand such metaphoric expressions, and even should they be under-
stood, to render them into technical English terms is not possible be-
cause such English words are unused by them.

It may be of general interest to call attention to the fact that some
of the Iroquois still dwell in log houses. An accompanying illustration
of the home of Chief John Buck, Jr., shows the main outside features
of such a building. Logs of suitable lengths are hewn into slab-like
form, 8 or 10 inches thick and 14 to 20 inches broad. The ends of
these timbers are cut in such wise that they will dovetail together and
so interlocking as to form a firm and secure structure, which is
usually two stories high. The timbers are laid one over another in
such manner as to form four walls, and the interstices between them
are filled with cement or clay mud so that winds and rains and snows
do not enter the building. When in good condition they are very com-
fortable, much more so than the ancient elm bark structures which
they displaced.

Upon leaving the Grand River Six Nations of Ontario, Canada, I
visited the Tuscarora of New York State, dwelling near Sanborn,
N. Y. There, with the aid of Mrs. Sally Ann Chew, a typical
Tuscarora woman, I recorded in her language more than two hundred
plant, animal, and bird names, and some personal names. Leaving
this reservation I visited the Onondaga reservation near Syracuse,
N. Y., where assistance was obtained from Chief Emmet Lyons on
some moot points of translation and interpretation of Onondaga texts
of the League of the Iroquois. Thence, I went to Rochester, N. Y.,
where I inspected the Iroquois collections in the Municipal Museum
of the City of Rochester, which is under the capable Directorship of
Dr. Arthur C. Parker, former State Archeologist at Albany, N. Y.
SRUDIES OF THE AEG@ONOUIAN TRIBES: ©OF IOWA
AND OKLAHOMA

By TRUMAN MICHELSON,
Ethnologist, Bureau of American Ethnology

The Kickapoo and Arapaho tribes of Oklahoma, the Fox of Iowa,
and the Sauk, Shawnee, and Cheyenne of Oklahoma formed the sub-
jects of my field studies during the summer of 1929. Some weeks
were first spent with the Kickapoo. When their history is borne in
mind, with the dramatic flight to Mexico, the difficulties ensuing allot-
ment with the attendant frauds, and so on, it is not to be wondered at
that they are still remarkably tenacious of their ethnology, and very
unwilling informants. In spite of these difficulties a really represen-
tative collection of Kickapoo mythology was obtained, mostly in the
current syllabic script. Combined with the material previously col-
lected by the late William Jones, edited and translated by myself, it
is possible to make some very definite statements from a comparative
point of view. The tentative statement I made 14 years ago (Pub.
Amer. Ethnol. Soc. LX, p. 140) that Kickapoo mythology and folk-lore
are on the whole closest to Fox, holds valid. It is barely possible that
with a really representative collection of Sauk mythology and folk-lore
this opinion might have to be somewhat modified ; for the Sauk ma-
terial, published and unpublished, is too meager to be seriously consid-
ered at present. It may be mentioned, however, that Kickapoo shares
with Sauk the tale of the culture-hero and the “little frighteners ”’
which occurs in more northern tribes, ¢. g., the Ojibwa and Cree. This
is either totally absent among the Foxes or is known to but a few mem-
bers of that tribe. At any rate, despite my many visits among them, I
have not encountered it. A tale that is found among more northern
tribes practically from coast to coast, that of the girls who married the
stars, also occurs among the Kickapoo, but apparently not among the
Fox. The contest of the Thunderers and water-monsters (‘‘ plumed ”
serpents ), in this case Underneath-Lynx, of course occurs ( for the dis-
tribution of this theme, see my discussion in Bull. 95, Bur. Amer.
Ethnol., pp. 54-50); the tale of the Thunderer who is taken captive
closely resembles a similar episode among both the Sauk and Fox
(it can not be too strongly emphasized that these two tribes, though
legally consolidated, are distinct in language and general ethnology).
It may also be noted that the “ transformer ’”’ theme, so common in

14 207
208 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Fic. 188.—Fox powwow, August, 1920.
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1929 209

the northwest, though apparently absent among the Fox, occurs
among the Kickapoo. The rough character of the Mexican country
is accounted for by ascribing it to the wanderings of the culture-hero
(Wie a‘ka‘a). How the Kickapoo received, or adapted, the obviously
modern myth that zebras come from underneath the water is un-
known to me.

The religious ideas and practices hold their own with great vigor.
Producing rain by dipping a garfish (of a sacred pack) in water is
firmly believed in; this was tried with success in Sonora in I9Q15.
What a triumph for Kickapoo fundamentalists! Causing sickness and
death by “ soul-stealing ” is said to be still practiced. Details of the
formal rituals appurtenant to the various gentes are still unknown,
though it is clear that they resemble Fox counterparts. Kickapoo dif-
ferentiate such offenses as will bring supernatural punishment and such
as will bring human punishment; the former we would term “ sins ”’;
the latter “torts ”’ (rarely “ crimes”). Some offenses fall under both
categories. To this extent are ethics and religion associated among the
Kickapoo. Offenses are graded: it is worse to desecrate a sacred pack
than it is to steal; murder is worse than desecrating a sacred pack. In
this connection it may be noted that the Kickapoo claim they obtained
the obscene songs which are frequently sung during the moccasin
game when ladies are not present, from the Sauk and Fox, A few
years ago a Fox visitor ventured to sing these objectionable songs, in
accordance with the custom of his own tribe, in the presence of Kicka-
poo ladies ; the latter were indignant, but let it go as he was a visitor.
A point in Kickapoo sociology may be here mentioned: it is claimed
that two boys who have the same father but a different mother are
more closely related than two boys who have the same mother but a
different father. The Kickapoo language is an archaic Algonquian
one, despite some secondary changes.

Work among the Sauk and Shawnee was chiefly linguistic. The
new data clearly show that Shawnee is further removed from Sauk,
Fox, and Kickapoo than supposed, though it is abundantly clear that it
is closer to them than to any other central Algonquian language.

Only a short time was given to Cheyenne, and practically only
linguistics were considered. The phonetics of the language are diffi-
cult, voiceless syllables in particular being difficult to record accurately.
The opinion that I gave years ago that Cheyenne must be considered
aberrant Algonquian is fully sustained. It had been long known that
Cheyenne was Algonquian. Some phonetic shifts were worked out. It
is obvious that a detailed study of the language would be well worth
while. Some social customs were noted, among them, male descent.
210

SMITHSONIAN

INSTITUTION

Fic. 190.—Mexican Kickapoos.

Fic. 189.—Fox dancer.
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, I929 PAA AM

The work among the Arapaho was likewise mainly linguistic. It
will be recalled that, as I have said previously, Arapaho is diver-

gent Algonquian. Complex phonetic shifts abound, and it was pos-

?
=
a
-
e
@
ud
2

**

Fic. 191.—Pushetonequa, the last Fox chief recognized by the Federal
Government.

sible to work out some more of these. Up to the present time it has
been the phonetic shifts and lack of some common Algonquian gram-
matical features, rather than the presence of un-Algonquian grammati-
cal ones that have forced the designation of Arapaho as divergent
Algonquian. This summer it was possible to definitely show at least
212 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

one fundamentally un-Algonquian grammatical trait, namely, the in-
sertion of the syllable -en- after the initial consonant of a primary ver-
bal stem to express habitual action. So far as known this trait is
unique. It is therefore not possible to state whether this is self evolved,
or borrowed from some outside source. The theoretical importance of
this is very great. It is perfectly well known that a purely genealogical
grouping of American Indian languages breaks down; it is only a
question as to on how great a scale the borrowing of grammatical fea-
tures can occur.

The work among the Fox of Iowa consisted largely of restoring
phonetically texts gathered previously in the current syllabic script,
obtaining translations, etc. I returned to Washington August 31, ’29.

In conclusion I should add I am more than ever convinced that all
members of primitive societies are not alike; differences fully as
great as in our own society occur; even so-called intellectual classes
exist among them. Nor is the opinion tenable that every one in primi-
tive society is as free as the air: all primitive societies have restraints
and obligations fully as strict as our own. Nor do the ethical ideals of
primitive peoples differ fundamentally from our own; the content
alone is different. Nor are natives any more “ pre-logical ” than we are.
Given, say, the belief in Thunder-birds, any Indian of the Great
Plains can justify this fully as acutely as we can justify some of our
own beliefs. Nor are natives (as Herbert Spencer fondly imagined)
explosive and incapable of self restraint: they can and do restrain
themselves on occasions where we should not, and vice versa. Simi-
larly they have their own etiquette, whether this coincides with ours
or not.
SHODIES: AMONG» RHibe CHOC TAW, (Ob MISSISSIEER
AND THE CREEKS OF OKLAHOMA

By JOHN R. SWANTON,
Ethnologist, Bureau of American Ethnology

In the neighborhood of Philadelphia, Mississippi, live the descen-
dants of those Choctaw who chose to remain in their ancient territo-
ries after the treaty of Dancing Rabbit instead of moving into the lands
intended for them in what is now southeastern Oklahoma. Today they
number about 1,200 in spite of several later emigrations, and among
them are to be found the most conservative of the nation, because
forced emigration after white contact always tends to destroy the
continuity of the tribal tradition and paves the way for the disruption
of the old order. The first two weeks of my 1929 field-work were
devoted to interviewing a few of those old Choctaw Indians who still
remember the ancient customs of the tribe. With the information,
thus obtained, I corrected and amplified notes made during a previous
visit.

I took the opportunity also to revisit the famous hill of Nanih
Waiya, out of which according to certain native legends the Choctaw
originally came. A cave within a short distance of this mound may
have played some part in localizing the myth of origins there, and the
resemblance between the names Nanih Waiya, ‘‘ Bending Hill,” and
Nanih Waya, “ Hill Bringing Forth,” may also have contributed to
this identification. As a matter of fact the hill is artificial and at one
time probably carried the communal buildings of some Indian town.
It was surrounded by a stockade, traces of which are still to be seen.
Nanih Waiya has been mentioned before in the Smithsonian annual
exploration pamphlets, both by myself and by Mr. Henry B. Collins,
Jr., and views of it may be seen in the pamphlet for 1918 and that
for 1925. My work at Philadelphia was furthered in every way by
the Agent for the Eastern Choctaw, Dr. Robert A. Enochs, to whom
I am particularly indebted.

After leaving Philadelphia, I spent a few days in Jackson, Miss.,
consulting manuscripts in the Department of Archives and History at
the State Capitol, where, as on former occasions, I was most hos-
pitably entertained by the Custodian of the Archives and State His-
torian, Dr. Dunbar Rowland.

213
SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Fic. 192.—Nanih Waiya, the sacred hill of the Choctaw Indians, viewed from
the northwest. According to certain of their legends the ancestors of the tribe
came out from beneath the earth at this spot. The mound is artificial and evi-
dently bore the communal or ceremonial buildings of some town.

Fic. 193.—Beginning of the Women’s Dance at the Square Ground of the
Okchai band of Creeks near Hanna, Oklahoma, taken from the cabin or arbor
of the chiefs on the west side of the square.
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1929 215

Fic. 194—Ceremonial ground of the Nuyaka Indians, a branch of the
Okfuskee band of Creeks who have adopted the name of the American
metropolis. The picture was taken from the southwest and shows the ball-
post to the right and the four arbors or cabins of the Square Ground to

the left.

Fic. 195.—The western or chiefs’ arbor of a Square Ground near Hanna,
Oklahoma, formerly used by the Hilibi band of Creek Indians. The picture,
taken in midwinter, shows the method of construction.
216 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

From Jackson I went to Oklahoma, where my time was spent en-
tirely among the Creeks, and was devoted to the task of obtaining
data on the extant Creek Square Grounds, particularly the manner in
which the various clans, classes, and officers were seated in the cabins
or “beds” which composed each Square. In pursuance of this work
I visited about half of the Creek ceremonial grounds proper and was
present during a part of the annual ceremonies or “ fasts” at three of
them. Unlike the Choctaw, the Creeks had evolved before white con-
tact a series of communal ceremonials held at certain sacred grounds
(the Squares) which were the common property of the several sub-
divisions of the Creek Nation. Before these Indians were removed to
Oklahoma there must have been 50 or more Squares but they have now
been reduced to 17, not including three maintained by the incor-
porated Yuchi tribe.

One of the Lower Creek Squares, Kasihta, has recently been re-
vived. It is evident that the racial and cultural pressure of the whites
has stimulated renewed interest in the ceremonies as symbols of that
culture to which the Creeks had independently attained. They are so
many outward expressions of the “defence mechanism” of the
people, efforts to retain their racial and cultural self-respect in the
midst of the levelling tendencies of the alien civilization which sur-
rounds them. This fact should be kept in mind by those to whom
such ceremonies appear barbarous and valueless. At the same time
the extent to which Indian life has elected to adapt itself to the new
cultural invasion is interestingly illustrated at their annual ceremo-
nies, which the aborigines now attend in their automobiles, only a
very small percentage of which are “ flivvers.’”’ When the ceremonies
are in full swing, the Square Ground is usually surrounded by a com-
plete fringe of cars and the harangues of the speakers—in the native
language and by intention at least in the native style—are frequently
punctuated by the more familiar sounds of cars just starting up or
coming to rest. At night, when dancers get too far away from the
central fire to be observed clearly by the crowd, obliging native chauf-
feurs improvise a stage illumination by turning on their headlights.
Altogether these occasions form an interesting picture of the clash-
ing racial and cultural streams which have given rise to them
and of the still more profound human motives by which they are
interpenetrated.
TRIBALFEUSTOMS, OF THE MENOMINEE
INDIANS OF WISCONSIN

By FRANCES DENSMORE,
Collaborator, Bureau of American Ethnology

The Menominee reservation, with its beautiful forests of pine and
rushing rivers, is located north of Shawano, Wisconsin. Here dur-
ing the summer of 1929 I continued my study of Indian music for the
Bureau of American Ethnology among the Menominee Indians. The
particular purpose of this season’s work was to obtain additional in-
formation which would supplement the songs and other material col-
lected on two previous trips, and to obtain the correct form of proper
names and words pertaining to music.

The old men and women of the tribe were again questioned, several
new informants were found, and a large gathering of Indians was
attended. At this gathering I witnessed the women’s games of “ dice
and bowl” and “ double ball.” The first name is said to have been
given to the Menominee by the spirit women who live in the eastern
sky, and the songs of its origin had already been recorded. The game
may be played as a pastime but is primarily a means of securing per-
sonal benefits promised by the spirit women in a dream. The action
consists in tossing upward a shallow bowl containing disks made of
bone, and the score is counted by the exposed surfaces (fig. 198). |
obtained a set of the game implements, which comprise eight round
disks, one flat disk representing the common turtle and one represent-
ing the head of the great “ spirit turtle.”

The double ball game is played by several women on an open field,
each player holding a stick with which she tosses a pair of leather
pouches, commonly called balls. The players are divided into two
opposing sides, each seeking to toss the pouches across the other’s goal.

This gathering was held at the native village of Zoar and the
dances took place in the arbor-like lodge where I witnessed the Drum
Presentation ceremony in 1928. The drum (fig. 197) was suspended
on shorter stakes than those supporting the ceremonial drum, and
beneath it was a bowl-shaped hollow a few inches in depth. Thus the
earth served as a resonator for the drum. The singers were seated
around this drum, according to the Indian custom.

The principal informant was Mitchell Beaupre (fig. 199), whose
Menominee name is Mowa’sa, commonly but inadequately translated

217
218 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Fic. 196.—Dense pine woods on Menominee reservation, where Miss
Densmore recorded old customs of the tribe. (Photograph by W. H. Wessa,
Antigo, Wis.)

Se ae

Fic. 197—Drum used by Menominee at social dances. (Photograph by
Miss Densmore. )
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1929 219

Little Wolf. His father was a French trader and his mother a full-
blood Menominee. At the age of 83 he is still a close observer of
tribal customs as well as an intelligent student of the old beliefs.

Fic. 198.—Woman playing dice and bowl game. (Photograph by
Miss Densmore. )

Many subjects were discussed with him, including the performances
of the medicine men, the native treatment of surgical cases, the mak-
ing and keeping of a hunting bundle, the connection of the Thunders
with the lacrosse game, the briefs concerning the “ underwater peo-
ple,” the legend of the first death (by drowning), and the first jour-
220 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

ney to the land of spirits. To all these, and to the descriptions of the
Medicine Lodge, he gave the best of his knowledge and experience.

David Amab’, a singer and informant of former years, was near to
death from cancer but was able to answer a few questions and to
impart certain information which he “had on his mind,” hoping that
I would return to receive it. He died ten days after 1 left the
reservation.

Valuable information was also received from Rattlesnake, a leader
in the “drum religion,’ and from Henry Valentine Satterlee, who
acted as my interpreter in 1925 and is a recognized authority on the
Menominee.

The principal subject of inquiry on this trip was the manner of
treating the sick, both by herbs and by means of the “ juggler’s tipi”
or divination lodge. This structure resembled an ordinary tipi but
was smaller in diameter. The medicine man, or juggler, was tied
with thongs and placed in this tipi, which he then caused to shake as
though in a tempest. He summoned the spirits, who talked with him,
revealing the cause of the patient’s illness and the manner of his
cure. If the person was being “ bewitched” he called the evil spirits
into the tipi, where he wrestled with them and conquered them, after
which he assured the sufferer that no further difficulty need be antici-
pated. Friends of the sick person, seated outside the tipi, heard the
“voices of the spirits,” but only the juggler could understand them.
Different spirits had different voices, for example the mud turtle
gave a whinnying sound. Mitchell Beaupre said he had heard that the
juggler held in his mouth something with which he produced the
sound, but was not certain about it. Several informants stated that the
poles of this structure were pointed, but from David Amab’ it was
learned that the poles were blunt at the lower end. A heavy pointed
pole was used in making the holes in which the permanent poles were
placed, giving the impression that the frame of the tipi was of pointed
poles. The swaying and bending of the tipi could be more easily ac-
complished with blunt poles, moving in sockets. These observations
do not, however, deny the hypnotic phase of a juggler’s demonstration.

Information concerning the Menominee use of herbs in treating
the sick was obtained from Mrs. Harriet Longley of Keshena, whose
mother, known as Sophie Pete’ta, was a prominent medicine woman
of the tribe. Her mother’s Menominee name was Nata’wika, mean-
ing “the whip-poor-will finds a place and dances”’ (fig. 200). Mrs.
Longley learned the use of herbs from her mother but makes no
practical use of that knowledge. She gathered for me 58 specimens of
medicinal plants and trees, representing a wide variety of environ-
221

SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1929

UPL

uo

M dUIDIPIU VdUIWIOUaTY “PYM ,2}2N—'OOT “91S

‘JOM, AMV] payejsuesy Ajayenbapeur ‘es ,eMoy st aureu soul

-WOUdTW SIFT ‘oidneog [PUP] ‘WWeusojsur souIWOUIIY— 661 “If

222 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

ment. I accompanied her on four expeditions, two into the woods, one
to a lake and one to the high, burned-over land in the northern part of
the reservation. Tobacco was provided, which she placed in the ground
according to the old custom, speaking the words her mother used.

In order that all the requirements of the old custom be met, I pre-
sented her also with food and a gift. The plants were identified at the
U. S. National Herbarium, chiefly by Mr. E. C. Leonard. On com-
paring these with the list of plants used by the Chippewa, it was found
that many plants occurring on both lists were used differently in the
two tribes. There is no standard pharmacopoeia among the Indians,
each doctor using herbs according to his own dream or that of the
man from whom he obtained his instructions. The horn used by
Nata’wika in cupping the temples of those afflicted with headache
was obtained ; also a specimen of medicine prepared by her, consist-
ing of mixed herbs tied in a cloth. The song which she received in
her dream and sang when gathering her medicine was sung for me
by her daughter. Nata’wika died in 1918 at the age of more than 80
years, and is still honored throughout the reservation as a woman
whose whole aim in life was to help the sick and suffering members of
the tribe.

The correct spelling of Menominee names and words was pro-
vided by Frank S. Gauthier, a prominent member of the tribe whose
father, Joseph G. Gauthier, was interpreter for the Menominee for
30 years.

After leaving the Menominee reservation I visited the Winnebago
south of Galesville, Wisconsin, securing valuable information per-
taining to the study of their music. These Indians belong to the
Thunder clan, and many of their songs had already been recorded.
The making of baskets from black ash has been commercialized by
the Winnebago, who claim that the instructions for the work were
received by a woman in a dream. The Thunder clan have one of the
largest basket-making camps in western Wisconsin, and yet hold to
the old beliefs and customs.
ve
*
j ’
ov ve
1)
ss
>
j
Vi be
i
j
1
f
i y
a,
i
7
ah 4
is
' &
\

ay lyri aay
ea
ae

ht ? re
dae

ne ke We

ms
oy

mt +
: Nh ey eine
i te oy 4: > 4 -
‘ae ene

yey; ce Toe

4 ge

eae ie Chip i eam
On nee a
‘oa Pie ba WO fi
2 ‘ ae aay =

; io
qiere “yi ed A é rab 2 y I Me :
oy: a oe ‘am BAe it Sov ee ey / aaa
oe) Wey 9 A ae Poe, hea Re hee ae a

; ae es he he cs eee pw a te eee ois

. Rake SS
| ie a
Pian

pi &
,

ar
ia

ay Es : : a ie are CO Say
ree ae i be ° PN a pes Pay Ao
Dita ae tem 8) Ss Ha

ei
hak
is ah

vi ' ae
nape sa Ai
"i : ria ‘

ene
ne ae Aa

An § ae

h cet nx

TM 20
Lh Po ee
ie ey DN Sey
eer i) ay ok me ae i in Suit te
Haein ae re ren hae: ; eee | ats
a he ti . Hite, an Ai,
ys ve BD. ia i qj Teo i i"
Hage lu ee tN ea vee se 25) Pee

Pea DRS
sit

' eel Ti\. loa’ V1 meee maencasnnn afipliliassan hai?
|

UAL Jann > YNee,

CUR iay pan Dy h8e 7 ih Ge PAPASRABAL SAAR, pApAniinanaae

-R. aie :
\ Riana ST ded |

ain : Aeas
i _ pag aAnaa nano abeatioee, pancmPMNmmUpD IAD oan larae A i
a 3 yaaa nae aie || | ee el Ny Sta
Wa Ba® & ) re “wy
ame + a a : etka rng) aw AAA, S bay
Wyidiyiiiiy le ThH™. we ‘
HT ioe IA |

i . wha E
Look % = Ba, ! Yen zy 1% me Lo ¥ ui

MEER
Br ere =; ao Rettane ns Ace, ove gee hi
F i elelalaila al a eae & Stic AOU :
syiciin’ sell if nue WANS ANS Sie Ts mcr
ew@boee tg pit deel t tpt Pp
‘ee laa Why ieee = uuu wean ei je ary yt ve y. i > 4 } 7
TAY Woaetlars reer Iisa a Mca

Raa. Lhd aQ. Aaa, °

SPQ,
» AAven, ee
A‘ aasa —

pects enw J
qt, a® Ne oA Ss

‘8
ise 3 Suh
"AN at guy Ve Wehe YY

iseshl bogs

pas ceed aan nee
Ys inn SARA
4) *.' se ’ Aga)

d
Na.

ee rach Seat ee
SS Ma . a

aw yyy” ; S
ea grr V Wer erererar Wor vv 7) HCY. ae aes aS VR ae

pees eeemauer PAX ee bat
hess heblon? SURARLObT Abas
"eco *ABARA, aatiee| | tt tema!)

a re pe 2 ~ | . c- > 4 xs b - . 2 . a. 3 &: Ns an 3 =
{Reon q f i Ba nf f 4 ‘alles Bee a‘! ; : Bhanae : , . A a Baal |
ha caf WA de YY 1 oe : 7 Be 1 SEY. e eae ean Meet ee aiAaga Prrmia Pala

‘ —~~Ran wg ge ‘i £ Rel Ie cy 2 ani ‘es By 1) Aa Pept ar te Ler leent NAA . “ih

pitsa* Nay a ala pare Pie : . peepee Nab Tee ay ee
. Been om MA vy &aé a: aye AY | ie .* ie An : haa

Aaa- : Rela ~

eG es et ima eentes a neNAAUKA

ape eP
* i
{ - * -~ aA: c
Vy E i An One MrarteahBannes on, ida £ ~ tym, 2 tF eS eee ‘ail BA Ass .

-

vw br tELELEL |
ae tale “ . yoeemes

» :
sa
Duan Gama aab nae nh

af 22)
ev |

> Tey YY We ele. Ie

stocdaries= oledebD Pib bs

TA Cree PEPE EEL an ie
“ TAR AA AABAARR ANAS | ie i‘ arias Ap :
: anamanas ahh OtTiaiie. oc a» Maa,

\ ~ i.
PaBana. ~- S80 4) Le PP apadda ADA

AAPAnNmaaIb NA SC eT

Reanomeret Pe aS : oe AAA fim Oa yh
~ bad BN Ne Py 44% pent te Pini, hase Lyn a, mA pA nnshaPa hoo 2 Roe ee a <
DS ae, | = i 6a Bi pe’ » — E i
AANA SNe Ne San, can be | Pigal aameant se SP z _ A 2 9 Ne Y » i anal sag Phe aD
4 Pe et he a Aare ee Ie a , Sage AR
of o 2 4 a OG ae Ney, - $ tat <a ND an AAAZAas? om am AAA Nan a? a » | f & : "on z & | \=

= Py Se eee eee ao hn A ere ; Joe] | aes ¥
> i Naa. ‘ eh PS) Log thee @ ‘ Aa a , Vis q po es, 7 a Per? <a Nee me LEP ELT LUA Lug 2% Pe VY a. Te he oe es
fa 4G aaa BAL A
ee tat j

“non Oe cl? a, Loe
i er cot Tae. @ © .eoe ea
areca: 6.6.8 j% ce is ms iy ¥.
Coa a a ia “ie we vue i nt he « “
co A Ae A ie. Ceueue pale ec. =
UL Co wee Lee a fa Sat aff ia nas Ps if a rhage”

uy fr, Ge, Ge ae 3 . a

iL if

a
Pre
2e a

‘ at

‘ ula ar j : nf te ut 4 Par / af | As he ee eae ary a  ¢ ~ at ;
an Fee are G re c 1 £42 aly ay if ar a roy o
fh “Ail il all ue ce 3,8 it oe Ase Oe at ae | . baad
| ait te ne ore ev@. ale We) i tt om Uh

att yee 2 a a cs oe a ee fi a

a ar Dela ao Oe
Ta ae. & 6.6.9. 9.5 va
a a ee i [x aC te ati atl fi sal
6.8.0 808.3. year
: “i ie 8 yi a ae il AS e i oe aN
a or On “ag pe cae ae “so i '

ig i ne iar us a 3 i? * ‘ +3 em os

ek ke
i aa wd wh wi

ae tig

ata. hog
goa BC

od 2 ’ x . . = . P ~ : . “4 3 - a e 7 0 ae 2 - ae; Ts ‘ee : oF
: ? > : 4 ; ‘ : < * a on . mo eZ * at ‘hw :
: » ‘ $ . ne a - : raed cass BS we SES ; : = ss oe : SS eemeeti is »
< z ¥ 3 £ ef <j $s 2 ip ‘2 , me = ~ " 2 > “ ~,

Ps,

