(on oe qe Fe, 3 iF Ae Pe eo Oy
rec eis wid . Py

eve peas aoe ie b Wwe
28 6 Oe ee ee |

me rp it ez ae iy Ds yO J

| acta actreet oie te 6 26 6 ee ee
os : a i ae De A Be Pn eo i Ye Sh

Bad _— he WP jet de wy ek oe ee
“at yey yr Pe Ye. Py a JM ¥, ’
ve a pe ie ay ne i, aah i

val > rs “ty :
ie Ve oe

ie te
Wee Re iP al
te yes g° ce rh Baik
i : cs oo Tet yer ae

‘Ws Te oe "ye I aot
; Bek 4 a 4 ai
Ms a poe es ier

3d Jal ae ee #
ie a eo tery

Pate: ae wee PY

a 1a I, 2 * ys a os 38 fe

_ . ue Oey a Wi let ee
of ee me tN a

Sa: “jah | s %
ame 2 st meg oe SiR ce “ wy ea weeded en ny
’ te ole, aha Age ake a

ae ys var pees B a

on a ee 2 A ein Z a §

As Too 0 Reed 9 J . ny
v bf Had
F ae

iy “De he ‘, nog oP rian 7 aY
ope 7 8 Oe

TALE he Ve ik es wai hehe Melba ds dale Bathe ped bs bbea Da haticteibe sah she Bethe hae
ssa): he AS totweta 0 nt : Vaathe Na ibe ll oB= Pah eit 9» of
Pate at tat iitatys ettth rin iti aga be

i iNkibo Na Dahl Bose eid. a he Pha Be owl iy
seid pehatehensacicoriene

«Does po pw te (oe

Wea ta 1}
D0 be BED te
NSN)

We Pht rig Ry Ay

eda + he
porate seis ded
(Wiha. Dnihall alt

" Be tst.t
Bihene Ds ben,
+A,

TS

ae

OB ie ow
Aahiuaeedes

ee
ue

Sod D0 0b he bs Rie bath
“o> »
Lh Boke de ty
sapere Sea
DM DolbribeSalde
Bet)

*:
Gs fo a Payee: Dai oD: BM Balla
ha ha A Oh \; he
Sis hese a tities aici

tn a Pa vei He
bate ie sath (dale nih Ra the Bhs he athe Be doe halo ihe ibe.
: etude hed ns da

DD iis ie
Ne tadby Delete dele Da Da,
baba a Deb bb

9s Deh Benes

ea 8
a At he

jhe! 4 Mitauet)
He he ta ita hy
chbtbeosiearhete rite

doe MaDe Sete Hela

=

HM igs
hy fide pei
wtese ies nes ronal

ts
he
Bilas:

f
33

re
=

¥.
giz.

$s

) tae
Sages io

25S
=

es
Ay
fe

ae dade ene pas

234 be abe bdne get oe
Se peed
Ne Waites
ie
seseie

: *
hea hitarasy

ahiaetece
? iy bales he

rd
, jos,

J Sasa ee
jh ded< dened ed

Ht

As
; rs a peasdruede:
pseteet eset ais

4 dn drip be
Das peiabous

a vs
i ereiteepaniie ee aa
Wa ear BRO wy . pale opine ap peers bay
* ti nisis jagedeua en 1 bela eee 5
Pesohe ied sini stint Att Setar ¥e hah nes +8 8

ni
Pye nd
tat at
1

i y
poli Sea am ie tb

oe tif gebeck ate
H siti saat cea abet
Phare tas yeibed

4 ya bal
sista oat
Pir phdibeber ay
ALAN ah 8 B40 Oe de a a
M St Aa pe ORR es re
Peete tit eti

Bee
hehin Duin neaiash i

ella

1s oo 0 yeh ee bags
» te

>

pi Weert
ik
‘a

1Osbr Ac heg

. aaah 4

eat
ALU Vetnt

hehe, ship Lithesaiien
dri Setiriatabed cose ge “ede : ii
Able depute Weds 'y Welsda ney benena teas casts ita ‘ i arent
READ aeey boty sauohdepeidinyepuiests’

Met thet b hysy nese ene

nnn Ob. wii
, oi

edbbuet pi hdead i +f eet 7 ie

4 bia ito {ripeanyavsipusia ate ,

rlshefeasesnorreh tions he a ten aytfraiae toeittts

ee 8 FUP aw, byes hte. eon

teiteetttes eat ba Bat
ts Hed eae tatSh rete

(dbsaby Beatle Anak pa de ba des i

(*4 iapeispeieneatie ree :
ciate if a seine cut it
idaatan haat etteate tyne ot pairs reiahartecres
rete aerate isihage ele icapranetnneriaat

va iieee
7 se + it te je deen ieinuede
198 pie Mite . : » f
vaclepeies cee tie Oi tg ey bone vinaton bate (in at phesee ehh egote bty

ad
a

te | epeborgt grins
be bay balbeda dediecs sada ane tsttetehetateres coat ch
We bed8d6 (la bebe bead rf ys Salva pve ae) Awl roniXieueat
ands ha dads ie Spe aa be len), ey ps ee Pale yeni baa vg Rae ea
0 Os OAE NS Dededeys neg ees pas ‘
3, Dabsdabsinipabe ae a bean ave
Serbia st Wicreasieneny Gs fet eset
‘ gone as Pale pra Ape ven ee Weapon eeleie eet oti bayaaabs: can eae hevedsine yarns
mop ek ae iinet oeobnbace men eboyevassnsesies aeetieste
hin sino aitts aise tienk,
» eh 4
Ah edad io Ae vbyhengy sy seeiset bee ya ve heiwneneie 3
Cera) By bs Wo 0D ae Da by ors Ba abebsgedea re hes A Heea ed saa ge ate ¢ 08
dae cache whabeeavetitehctel ated erie st Wistar a balnl as ) i eebepeheys4
1 bs AD f hy 9 ee phachp if - sete
; M4 Dake ebtartary-pee thre eret
va dail ie pea delye ies ned todo eho
Z treiten three eran pete
Net art dregs pug eh she Mepehase
Zag hig erhaaiet wah php ete (ite
C vile dp an Babeneses CG
a Pen hah pr ornr heh oh
1 at Sit Papereneste ba ie
" MbeGeuntabsde chaos) ret
4 ‘ ‘seh :
i nav pesehe eae anions ete
be ‘i jane

*
a

pate’

A
She rs erie
a cite it ri
rebebtatr ath

i
bojsisinondioe
Wb: !
sis Daiuindedeonndaostn
fi weres
ee ysiae)

ey

pantaettat eote ts

Pre ths oe a
WM Aa debs der)
>s Wes the tbe

whe EY _

Ue st"
bs a4 Unibet) Ye Waar ye
Se bte

OST rs iy tits pf

Oe ibe gy ge nea bed r

dite rey) :

a a sori
vf

ie he

maneenttaneget
(HY

bs debe debs Bop aes
He 61949 00 bead as
DD) be eine
ees

i e

° ,
it aye mages yao waders {

OH OS Ware da lps s 9 neue el sangeet ete

Hibeielek bekghe gay yguayswrnautasvsenyadsyl byes
a bhp A oan ene kuaae

HPP ER Magnet py h Ark ps AEs

sas Or Ori
(neile ap Oe be

Dedede ed ( f ‘ ja gus
Bete he A OH oe mhiphyst epghsingeuensde

reserep Ne Senate areata terete

Pas ert Wev70:) Liye ts) 14 weal ches pusher ry > todehg day yee
- PD be de dolpen, a " phyehie 4 4 io paes ror
i: i ooh bat ih ie ™ eae bes 2 tote ya Tet Lehtenteh
Ay i et pager fot heater ee it cette hehe at

Heelies debs tbe keg Paley tbe naa abe pines. seiaitets

Na Da sa aninnivn pvsnind st

oe ( Hf ‘
ved ; ; hele pli mesiings
he patra he ay ashe ibaas Ba HA bby cholo cy Milan he PEMA edetirh yet par Lek re gett ne

‘ It “we vbeehed be ve Meturhe Weiree EL p wh rafal on sr ives sian ye san

? Src eoe
SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Metintd. Wlartle 28.1935

_

EXPLORATIONS AND FIELD-WORK OFTHE
SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION
IN 1933

(PUBLICATION 3235)

CITY OF WASHINGTON
PUBLISHED BY THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION
1934
c.
rei ét
a
i oe

<

Me

;
in

mt air
Simhe

apatite
as tye

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

EXPLORATIONS AND FIELD-WORK OF THE
SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION
IN 1933

SMITHSON ae

SEP 04 1987
UBRARIES

(PUBLICATION 3235)

CITY OF WASHINGTON
PUBLISHED BY THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION
1934
The Lord Baltimore Press

BALTIMORE, MD., U. S A,
PREFACE

The annual Smithsonian exploration pamphlet serves as a prelimi-
nary announcement of the achievements of the year’s field expeditions.
When the material and data collected have been studied and classified,
the scientific results are published later in one of the technical series
issued by the Institution. Most of the Smithsonian scientific investi-
gations depend largely on field-work for their “ raw material ”’, so that
upon the success of the expeditions herein briefly described hinges to
some extent the satisfactory progress of the Institution’s research
program in astrophysics, geology, biology, and anthropology.

The expeditions are financed in one of the following ways: Through
Congressional appropriations to one of the Government bureaus under
Smithsonian direction; through allotments from Smithsonian private
funds ; through funds made available for specific field-work by friends
of the Institution interested in some particular phase of its research
work; or through cooperative arrangements with other scientific
institutions.

Owing to the necessity for economy, this year’s pamphlet has been
cut to the barest minimum, and much interesting detail has had to be
omitted from each article. Enough is presented, however, to indicate
the nature and scope of Smithsonian field-work.

Wo Po [Rue

Editor, Smithsonian Institution.
7a ood!

GONTENTS
PAGE
Abbot, C. G. Establishing a new solar observing station on Mount St.
Keatheninemmotna tele nimstlceeetrsys atc ki .waes oie viticisvero tenets ei nayareiens easton eels I
Bartlett, Capt. R. A. Norcross-Bartlett Arctic expedition, 1933............ DS
Bartsch, Paul. The first Johnson-Smithsonian Deep-Sea Expedition to the

AEG LOM Catiea lO) CED rreeia serena seser chal al ua ohetesci sr ohoke weciernh cotere cusenisioanenaeiens

/
Densmore, Frances. Studying Indian music in the Gulf States............ 57
Harrington, John P. Rescuing the early history of the California Indians... 54
Hough, Walter. Investigations on ancient canals in southern Arizona...... 32
Kellogg, Remington. The search for extinct marine mammals in Maryland.. 15
Roberts, Frank H. H., Jr. An Arizona village of a thousand years ago..... 4t
Schmitt, Waldo L. Hancock Galapagos expedition, 1933.............+---- 18
Setzlerebrank Vi Cave burials im southwesternm Dexass.o.-5-5- cc. 01s 35
Setzler, Frank M. A phase of Hopewell mound builders in Louisiana...... 38
Smitha enaghe Mes Zoolosicalacollecting im) Siambecs scien tees se ce ek 28
Strong, W. D. Hunting ancient ruins in northeastern Honduras.......... 44

Strong, W. D. An archeological cruise among the Bay Islands of Honduras. 49
ey
SNAG

Nye

Bo 7 -Aaasie

is o*
ats

ae

=.

BoORARLISHING A NEW SOLAR OBSERVING STATION
GM MOUN Sm. KATHERINE, SINAL PENINSULA

By C. G. Appot

Secretary, Smithsonian Institution

In the years 1925-26 an observatory for measuring the sun’s radia-
tion in cooperation with the Smithsonian observatories in California
and Chile was located in South West Africa by the aid of a grant from
the National Geographic Society. This station on Mount Brukkaros
was occupied from the autumn of 1926 to the autumn of 1931. Owing
to the variableness of the atmospheric clearness caused by high winds
which drove clouds of dust over Mount Brukkaros, the results de-
rived there on the intensity of the sun’s heat outside our atmosphere
were not as accurate as those derived in California and Chile, though
almost equally numerous per year.

As indicated in a paper entitled “ Weather Dominated py Solar
Changes ”’,’ there seems to be an important influence produced on
weather by variations from day to day of the sun’s output of radiation,
even when such changes are of an order as small as 0.5 percent. athere
is very great difficulty in obtaining results of sufficient accuracy to
reveal and evaluate these small daily solar changes, owing to the inter-
ference due to changes in the transparency of our atmosphere. If
additional observing stations as satisfactory as our station in Chile
were available we might hope to overcome this obstacle. The outcome
we might then hope for would be a prediction of weather changes for a
week or 10 days in advance. Until values of solar variation of higher
accuracy than those as yet available can be obtained, we cannot test
this anticipation, or know whether it is exaggerated.

In a paper given at the National Academy of Sciences meeting in
Cambridge on November 20, 1933, the writer pointed out evidence of
a 23-year master cycle of periodicity in a group of solar changes, to
which the weather responds in a manner to tend to repeat itself both
as to temperature and precipitation each 23 years. This seems to
promise long-range forecasting of the approaching seasons and of
future years. The solar observations referred to above are not re-
quired for it, but rather for the attempt to improve relatively short-
range weather forecasting.

1 Smithsonian Misc. Coll., vol. 85, no. 1, 1931.
is)

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

oy

Ooo oe
? 7 - Pe ae Se awe eh Tay
eet : 2 a eS SS ee

Fic. 1—The St. Katherine Monastery on Mount Sinai, one of the oldest
in Christendom.

Itc. 2——Transporting material for the observatory on Mount St. Katherine
up the new trail built by the monastery for the Smithsonian.
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1933 3

Having in a measure failed in our attempt to obtain sufficiently
accurate solar-radiation measurements at Mount Brukkaros, A. F.
Moore, director of our field station at Table Mountain, Calif., and
Mrs. Moore spent many months in 1931 and 1932 in testing the fav-
orableness of numerous stations in Africa. This expedition was sup-
ported by John A. Roebling. Failing to find a satisfactory location in
West or South West Africa, Mr. and Mrs. Moore spent over 100 days
in the months March to July of 1932 on Mount St. Katherine near
Mount Sinai in Egypt.

Mount St. Katherine is about 8,500 feet in height and about 10
miles from the monastery of St. Katherine on Mount Sinai (fig. 1).
The ground is very rough—a veritable wilderness of rocks. During
Mr. and Mrs. Moore’s occupation the great majority of the days were
calm and cloudless, but during the months prior to July, high haze was
prevalent, which was somewhat disappointing. Nevertheless, there ap-
peared to be no rapid alterations of its density, such as had ruined the
prospect at Mount Brukkaros. On the whole, after more than 100
days of expert examination, Mount St. Katherine seemed to promise
a better station than ours at Table Mountain, Calif., and perhaps
almost as good as our station at Montezuma, Chile.

Advised of these findings, John A. Roebling made a grant to the
Institution of funds to build and maintain for 3 years a station on
Mount St. Katherine. The Archbishop, Porphyrios III, and the
monks of the ancient monastery at Mount Sinai welcomed the project
and undertook to construct trails (fig. 2), buildings, and water facili-
ties. Later they undertook also the transportation of supplies by camel
train from Tor, a port on the Red Sea, to the observatory, a 3-day
journey. They have always been cordial and helpful to Mr. and Mrs.
Moore and to the permanent staff of the expedition.

Having repaired and enlarged the outfit returned from Mount Brulk-
karos, Harlan H. Zodtner, field director, and Frederick H. Greeley,
assistant, sailed from New York on March 4, 1933, for Port Said.
After the completion of the dwelling quarters on the Gebel Zebir, a
spur of Mount St. Katherine, they were joined in the autumn by
Mrs. Zodtner and her two young children.

A big camel train carried the boxes of apparatus and supplies, nearly
100 in number, from Tor to the monastery, where they were stored
pending the erection of the observatory at the Gebel Zebir. A contract
was made with Archbishop Porphyrios III, acting for the monastery,
to build the station, the trail, and a protection to the water source.
The architect employed by him completed and modified certain rough
SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Fic. 3.—Smithsonian solar observatory, Mount St. Katherine, 8,500 feet
altitude. Sun rays reflected into the basement laboratory are observed with
the bolometer, an electrical thermometer sensitive to a millionth of a degree.

Fic. 4.—The coelostat for reflecting sun rays constantly northward horizontally
into the observing laboratory.
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1933

"SIOATOSGO 9Y} JO
SIOqYsI9u IvdU ‘UOS puB YIEYs qvuiy

To) anil

eS Ry

‘Q0URYSIP 94}
UI }IWILUNS 94} UO AJOWAIISGS "YRIS SulAtasqo 9y} jo
Sdo}ienb SUTIMP sy], “OULIyeY “YS JUNOPY—'S ‘oly

PO SP is

6 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

sketches and specifications which the Institution furnished. The ob-
serving structure was built on the summit of Gebel Zebir, and the
observers’ quarters on a comparatively level place somewhat lower.
All the structures are of stone. The observatory, like our other ob-
servatories, is arranged with the spectro-bolometer and galvanometer
mainly under ground to insure a steady temperature. The sun rays
are reflected in from a coelostat outside. (See figs. 3, 4 and 5.)

Figure 6 illustrates some of the unusual types of neighbors.

The following extract from Mr. Moore’s letter of May 8, 1932, gives
an interesting account of high mass at the monastery :

We spent last Sunday, the Greek church Easter, at the monastery. The monks
were very anxious that we should do this rather than pack up the mountain on
that day. (We arrived at the monastery the afternoon previous.) They showed
us marked honor by inviting us to their Easter high mass and even had one monk
from Suez who speaks a little English read part of the service in English for us.
The monks, headed by the Archbishop, were dressed in gorgeous robes, and the
Archbishop wore a gold crown studded with precious stones. They asked me to
photograph them in their robes and I also took a movie of their procession. The
mass lasted an hour and a half and was held in the beautiful church of the
Transfiguration built by Justinian early in the sixth century. In the morning
they had us attend the breaking of their 4o days’ fast in the monks dining room.
The table in this room has rich carving underneath and is a great many hundred
years old. We drank grape wine out of exquisite silver goblets hundreds of
years old (I mean the goblets). In the late afternoon we had dinner with the
Archbishop and monks in the garden adjoining the monastery. I forgot to state
that during the afternoon mass and also at a similar mass beginning at midnight
the night before there were firings of cannon, followed by a vociferous ringing
of bells.

The observers were ready for regular work about October 1, but
it proved that the two bolometers carried by the expedition had both
been injured in the camel transportation from Tor to Gebel Zebir.
One was indeed installed and tried out, but proved to be out of order.
No means of repair being available, two other bolometers were sent
out from the Institution at different times through diplomatic channels,
of which the first reached the station in November.

A Christmas note from Mr. Greeley says:

We expect to spend our Christmas out here by Sinai among the Bedouins.
The isolation of this place is no myth, and bright lights are hard to get to.
Chickens are easy to obtain for a Christmas dinner, but nobody ever heard of
cranberry sauce. Our little household does not complain much, but it makes us

appreciate our homes at this time of the year.
We are fairly well settled and hope to start regular observing in a few days.
CEE shiRS) JORNSON-SMITHSONIAN DEEP-SEA
EXPEDITION L©® THE PUERTO RICAN DEEP

By PAUL BARTSCH
Curator, Division of Mollusks and Cenogoic Invertebrates,
U.S. National Museum

Early in October 1932, Mr. Eldridge R. Johnson, of Philadelphia,
offered the use of his palatial yacht Caroline to the Smithsonian Insti-
tution for marine exploration in the tropical Atlantic. Mr. Johnson’s
tender carried with it generous provision for financing the expedition
and supplying the necessary equipment. The project was delegated by
the Secretary of the Institution to the writer.

Owing to the limited time available for the cruise, it was deemed wise
to confine this first effort to a comparatively small area, the Puerto
Rican Deep, the Atlantic’s greatest deep, which extends from north-
east Hispaniola east to the Anegada Channel; it is about 235 miles
long and one third as wide, with Puerto Rico rising steeply from its
south-central reach.

The time between the last of October 1932, and January 21, 1933,
was spent in gathering the needed equipment and making the neces-
sary alterations in the ship to render her thoroughly fit for the under-
taking, which was to be an all-around oceanographic expedition, taking
into account the physical, chemical, and biological problems of the
region to be investigated.

Little work had been done in the region, owing probably in part
to the rough seas and in part to the unusually rough conditions of the
bottom, which render dredging difficult and hazardous to the gear.
Then, too, few vessels have been properly equipped to undertake
collecting in the profound deeps.

The Caroline proved to be well suited to the task. Briefly, we may
say for her that she was designed by Henry J. Gielow of New York,
and built by the Bath Iron Works, Maine, in 1931. She has a length
of 279 feet 10 inches, a beam of 38 feet, anda depth of hull of 27 feet.
She is equipped with two 8-cylinder 1,500 hp. Cooper-Bessemer Diesel
engines, and her twin propellers drive her at a speed of 15 nautical
miles per hour. She carries enough oil to give her a cruising radius
of 10,000 miles.

Auxiliary engines furnish power for her Sperry gyroscopic stab1-
lizer, which weighs more than 50 tons and keeps the ship’s roll down

/
8 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Fic. 7—The Caroline, Mr. Johnson's yacht, 279 feet 10 inches long, with a
38-foot beam, whose large size and gyro-stabilizer enabled her to work in
all kinds of weather.

Fic. 8—Mr. Johnson, the sponsor of the expedition (left),
and Dr. Bartsch, its director.
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1933 9

Ftc. 10.—Mr. Fenimore Johnson (right) and Mr. Brown taking a sounding.
With this method a depth of 400 fathoms (2,400 feet) could be ascertained in
one second.

Fic. 11.—The coring machine. This weighs about 200 pounds, and when it
is dropped swiftly, nozzle first, on the ocean floor, it penetrates to a varyins
depth. Valves are then closed, and the core is brought up for analysis.
1O SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

to a couple of degrees, thus making it possible to work under all con-
ditions of the sea. These engines also actuate the gyro steering gear
and the radiobeacon finder, the latter enabling us to plot our stations
more accurately when out of sight of land than was possible previously
when such aids were not available; they also furnish power for the
wireless equipment, the sonic sounding machine, and the hydrographic
and dredging winches.

We modified an aft section of the ship from side to side to serve as
winch room on the first deck, and changed the smoking room on the
boat deck into a laboratory with aquaria and running salt and fresh
water ; here the recording part of the sonic sounding apparatus was
installed. A dark room was also provided for the photographer im-
mediately abaft the laboratory, and the boat deck was modified to
serve as the base from which most of our investigations were
conducted.

Thanks to the cooperation of many men and institutions we were
able to set out with a feeling of completeness seldom experienced. We
are particularly indebted to the United States Navy, the Coast and
Geodetic Survey, the United States Bureau of Fisheries, the United
States Department of Agriculture, the Carnegie Institution of Wash-
ington, the Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution, the New York
Zoological Society, Bergen Nautik, Norway, Richter and Wiese,
Berlin, Dr. Sverdrup, of Oslow, Norway, and the Hamburg American
Steamship Company, as well as to individuals too numerous to be
mentioned here. Capt. Andrew Peterson and his force of 42 officers
and men were as able, efficient, and eager as the nine carefully selected
members of the scientific staff, which was augmented by Mr. Johnson,
his son Fenimore, Mr. Douglass and his family, and Dr. Darby.

Besides the biological work, meteorological, physical, and chemical
investigations were carried on. Air temperatures were taken with
both wet and dry bulb thermometers, and a pilot balloon was flown
every morning and evening and its flight recorded with a theodolite.
Water temperatures at the sea surface were taken, and at several sta-
tions serial temperatures were recorded at definite depths from the
surface to 3,200 fathoms, with both protected and unprotected ther-
mometers. Simultaneously, water samples were obtained at these sta-
tions by means of Nansen water bottles, and these have been analyzed
for their saline and gaseous contents. A number of cores of ocean
bottom were obtained with the 2-inch coring machine.

More than 900 sonic soundings were recorded. These consisted
of three lines through the long axis of the deep, each 235 miles long,
with stations 5 miles apart. A connecting line from shore to the
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1933 TT

Fic. 12.—The tangle goes overboard. With it we would sweep the ocean
floor for about 20 minutes and then comb the tangle for the animals caught
in its meshes.

A

Fic. 13—The dredge comes in with about a ton of soft, oozy mud composed
of the minute skeletons of marine animals.

Fic. 14.—A Chesapeake Bay oyster dredge was found to be a useful tool on
rough bottom, where the chain links of the bag prevented tearing.

A
=
I2 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

farthest parallel was also run, with a similar interval. The three
parallel lines were 20 miles apart, and the deepest sounding recorded,
using a 400-fathom per second standard, was 4,400 fathoms. This
Ir-second interval was twice recorded. It should be stated that the
depth here provisionally recorded will eventually be considerably
higher—more than 4,600 fathoms—when corrections for salinity and
temperature have been applied. In addition to these soundings, many
readings were taken before and during dredging operations. We also
carefully sounded out a 5-mile square in Mona Island passage in order
to learn the contour of the bottom and shape our dredging activities
accordingly on this exceedingly rough bottom. The speed with which
records of this kind can now be accurately obtained makes sonic
sounding a vast improvement over the wire sounding methods used
on all my previous cruises on the United States Bureau of Fisheries
steamer Albatross. Instead of taking a sounding at the beginning and
end of a dredge haul, we were able to keep a constant record of the
depth and plot the contour of the bottom as we passed over it.

A pressure chamber devised by Fenimore Johnson was tried at
intervals to a depth of 3,000 fathoms, and it is intended to use this
for light registration and photography and possibly as a luminous bait
for traps on the next cruise.

The biological collecting was done with a variety of implements.
When the bottom was too rough to stand nets, we employed a tangle,
a 6-foot length of 2-inch pipe from which frayed loops of hawser
8 feet long were suspended. With such a swab the ocean floor was
swept for 20 minutes, and in its tangled threads many bottom-living
forms were enmeshed.

When it was possible, we used a dredge consisting of a heavy iron
frame with the long sides slightly flaring, from the rear end of which
was suspended a net protected on the outside with a canvas sleeve. We
soon learned that nothing larger than a 4-foot element could safely
be employed on account of the roughness of the bottom. Samples of
bottom mud, made up largely of the skeletons of minute creatures,
were preserved undisturbed.

On very rough bottom we found the Chesapeake oyster dredge with
its linked chain bag very serviceable. On smoother bottom we used
the 6-foot or the 9-foot reversible beam trawl, which consists of two
U-shaped steel runners 4 inches wide and 4 feet long held apart by
tubes of the desired length. To the four open ends of the loops is
attached the long net with its lead line at the mouth end. The bag is
kept open by hollow glass spheres suspended on the inside.
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1933 13

Fic. 15.—Ena Douglass with a bou- I*tc. 16.—The viper fish, [diacanthus,
quet of sea lilies, which was obtained which has on its sides and under parts
in depths ranging from 300 to 400 256 phosphorescent organs and a real
fathoms. flash bulb at the end of its chin whisker.

Fic. 17—With the Johnson bucket Fic. 18—A tiger shark weighing
dredge, 1 by 5 feet, the deepest haul 460 pounds, containing 39 young, each
was made in 3,200 fathoms. about 2 feet in length.
14 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

In intermediate depths and on fair bottom the large otter trawl of
35-foot aperture was used to good effect. In this the net is kept open
by two weighted boards, which are so hitched to the net and towing
line that when the latter is pulled, they take and keep an outward
slant, thus holding the net open. This is a very effective trawl, and
on our next cruise we will employ much larger nets.

For intermediate work we employed a young-fish trawl, which we
soon replaced with a 1-inch ring 6 feet in diameter carrying a 15-foot
conical bobbinet net. This instrument we used to advantage on our
hydrographic line with 1,200 to 1,500 fathoms of line out.

The deepest bottom haul was 3,200 fathoms, made with a bucket
dredge designed by Mr. Johnson. It consisted of a ring 1 foot in
diameter with a hinged loop connecting two sides, carrying a loop in
the middle for the cable attachment and suspending a_ protected
bobbinet net 5 feet long.

In addition, we fished at night, while the ship was at anchor, with
dip nets at the gang plank, using a submarine light and strong cargo
lamps. Frequently, too, the cargo light and circular intermediate net
were thus employed. These methods yielded many shallow-water ani-
mals that would otherwise not have been obtained. Our hand lines
and shark lines also yielded catches, the sharks ranging upward from
34 feet in length, and up to 460 pounds in weight; with them we
caught specimens of the sucker fish and pilot fish.

Land collecting also was done in Puerto Rico, Mona Island, Santa
Domingo, and the Virgin Isles.

The biological specimens obtained filled some 2,000 containers, rang-
ing in size from 2-ounce vials to 16-gallon tanks.

It would require far more space than is allotted to this note to give
even the briefest sketch of our catch, but I feel safe in saying that no
expedition of similar duration ever returned with larger collections
than the Johnson-Smithsonian Deep-Sea Expedition. The material
obtained at the 109 stations, mostly below 200 fathoms, has been
segregated and transmitted by the United States National Museum
to specialists, and even at this writing, reports by them upon animals
new to science are coming in and are being printed under the Johnson
Fund in the Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections.

In closing I wish to express my thanks to Mr. Johnson, not only
for his generosity that permitted the equipping of the Caroline, but
for many helpful suggestions and for his stimulating presence. To
our guests I am grateful, for they were in reality an addition to the
scientific staff. For my staff I have that feeling of gratitude which can
come only when every man has given the fullest measure of his ability.
For me the expedition was a dream come true.
THE SEARCH FOR EXTINCT MARINE MAMMALS IN
MARYLAND

By REMINGTON KELLOGG

Assistant Curator, Division of Mammals, U.S. National Museum

For years investigators in many parts of the world have been study-
ing the anatomy of present-day whales and porpoises as well as the
fossil remains of extinct species in the effort to trace the steps in their
adaptation to the life in the water. Fortunately, in so far as the Smith-
sonian Institution is concerned, there exists in nearby Maryland and
Virginia a deposit of marine sediments of considerable areal extent
that contains well-preserved remains of fossil cetaceans, pinnipeds, and
sirenians. This formation is known as the Calvert formation and is
considered to represent the upper or later part of the Miocene period.
Near Fairhaven, Md., some 60 feet of diatomaceous clays form the
basal part of this formation, but are replaced farther south near
Chesapeake Beach by about 62 feet of bluish-green sandy clays.
Overlying these clays are 12 recognizable strata or zones, consisting
of greenish and yellowish sandy clays, which form the upper part of
this formation. These exposed strata form the major portion of the
cliff along the western shore of Chesapeake Bay between Fairhaven
and Calvert Beach, Md.

Field-work during 1933 was limited to two weeks’ investigation of
these cliffs. The party consisted of a volunteer assistant, Raymond M.
Gilmore, Dr. C. Lewis Gazin, and the writer. The exposures have
been under observation by members of the staff for more than a
quarter of a century. In 1905 the late Dr. Frederick W. True began
work along the Calvert cliffs. Beginning in 1908 and continuing
through subsequent years, he was assisted by William Palmer, Norman
H. Boss, and David B. Mackie. The writer first visited the Calvert
cliffs in 1922 and since then at favorable intervals has continued the
search for remains of these fossil marine mammals. The fossil bones
found in this formation are soon freed from the matrix by a skilled
preparator, and the preservation of the skulls is such that the minute
details of their construction can be studied as readily as those of recent
cetaceans.

Among the fossil cetaceans found in these exposures, none is more
unusual than the aberrant porpoise, Zarhachis flagellator. The skull of
this porpoise is nearly 4 feet long, and the rostrum is fully five times as
long as the braincase. The extreme stage in the lengthening of the

15
16 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Fic. 19.—Fossil-bearing strata in cliff on western shore of Chesapeake Bay,
in which are found the bones of various sea-living mammals.
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1933 17

rostral part of this skull may represent the culmination of this sort of
development in the long-snouted type of porpoise. The vertebral
column is sufficiently well known for one to reconstruct the entire
skeleton and thus determine the length of the porpoise as approxi-
mately 16 feet. Other kinds of long-snouted and short-snouted por-
poises are found in these deposits, some of them more frequently than
others. Associated with these small-toothed whales was an extinct
sperm whale, less than one third as large as the living species.

In the same seas lived several kinds of extinct whalebone whales,
and with one exception all were noticeably smaller than the smallest
of the living mysticetes. These early whalebone whales do not possess
teeth in their jaws but have two lengthwise rows of bladelike plates of

ZARHACHI S FLAGELLATOR Towar Lemern -I5Feer- 8 Incnes

Calvert Miocene — Maryland
0]

/ : ae ar ne
~ omen 5 SES at Rapparees ar serene

h

Fic. 20.—a, restoration of extinct porpoise (Zarhachis flayellator Cope),
which is based on fossil remains found in the cliffs along Chesapeake Bay,
Md. 8, skull and lower jaws of Zarhachis flageNator Cope. Collected by
Norman H. Boss, roar.

baleen or whalebone, which hang from and are attached to the roof
of the mouth and serve as a seine when the animal is feeding on
crustaceans and small fish. In spite of the extraordinary remodeling
of the skull, these archaic whalebone whales have retained many primi-
tive features that are no longer found in the toothed whales. The
skulls of most of them are more or less alike in general appearance,
but differ from one another in the details of their construction. From
the fossil remains that have been found in these deposits, it can be
shown that several lines of development are represented, and a study
of these types in conjunction with other kinds from earlier and later
formations enables one to trace some of the steps in the geologic
history of these warm-blooded marine mammals.
HANCOCK GALAPAGOS EXPEDITION, 1933

By WALDO SCHNMIE Tt
Curator, Division of Marine Invertebrates, U.S. National Museum

It was my privilege to serve as a member of the scientific staff of
Capt. G. Allan Hancock’s expedition of 1933 to the Galapagos Islands,
an expedition that in addition to its main purpose—scientific collect-
ing—combined all the elements needed to make it a memorable cruise—
beautiful cruiser, tropic seas, isles of romance, and an equator crossing.

With a heavy collecting outfit and a light heart, therefore, I left
New York, on January 5, 1933, to join the cruiser at Panama. On
January 13 we arrived at Balboa, Canal Zone, where I was met by
Captain Hancock and his associate, W. Charles Swett, who is also
first officer aboard the Velero I/I. The cruiser is a trim and graceful
craft, approximately 200 feet long, with 30-foot beam and 1,000-ton
displacement ; of especially seaworthy construction of the steel hull
cruiser type, following as nearly as possible navy standards, and pow-
ered by two Winton reversible Diesels capable of driving the vessel at
14 knots. She is especially noteworthy for her electrical and mechani-
cal equipment, navigational aids being of the latest and most approved
patterns. She was fully and luxuriously equipped for extended cruis-
ing, carrying sufficient supplies of all kinds to enable her to make a
10,000-mile trip without replenishing any stores.

After leaving the Canal Zone, we arrived on the morning of the
16th at Malpelo Island, a forbidding, precipitous rock which rises
sheer from the ocean floor some 2,000 fathoms below. It is im-
possible to anchor off this island, and landing is uncertain and fre-
quently unsafe. Good fortune was with us, however, and the low tide
during the forenoon enabled us to land for a few hours. We collected
an extensive series of the Malpelo land crab, of which only one speci-
men had heretofore been taken.

January 17 found us off La Libertad, Ecuador, in the vicinity of
which we spent five days collecting. The only accident of the entire
expedition occurred off Salanga Island. In coming out through heavy
surf, our boat was swamped, but with the help of two native fishermen
who came up,at the time, we dumped the water out of the boat and
shoved off safely, having suffered no ill effects other than having
been thoroughly soaked.

18
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1933 19

Fic. 21.—Cruiser Velero III, Capt. G. Allan Hancock, director and sponsor
of the expedition, commanding.

Fic. 22—Examining results of a haul with the tangle in 56 fathoms off
Charles Island, Galapagos. Two specimens of a rare ophiuran were taken
in this haul.

fies nnd iad eed
EME CAS

Pi ee Sa om a aie _
Feo eR =

Fic. 23——Giant Manta with a spread of 14 feet. This huge fish subsists
largely on minute shrimplike animals.
20 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Fic. 24.—Wafer Bay, Cocos Island, the Treasure Island of history. California
fishing boats in the offing.

- Z efits Due we es ee ema mete
=< "sgh tae eo ess nd net
_— smear git eee are 4 ea a
— ee a CA nae ee “sie. ie

Fic. 25.—Dr. Schmitt receiving coral clumps from native divers, Bahia
Honda, Republic of Panama. A number of very interesting crustacean finds
were made in these coral clumps.

‘a, "a

. a
“Ane Pt

Fic. 26.—One of the characteristic features of the Galapagos fauna, a rare
iguana nearly 4 feet in length.
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1933 2T

On the morning of the 24th we made our first stop in the Galapagos,
at Gardner Bay, Hood Island, where we remained collecting until
the 26th, when we got under way for Charles Island. On this island
there are now three establishments, comprising nine persons in all,
who have come here in order to live their lives as they see fit, un-
hampered by the conventions of civilization. They seem to be living
quite contentedly, although they are obliged to do a tremendous amount
of work in order to provide themselves with even the barest necessities

Fic. 27.—Staff of the expedition. Standing, left to right: C. B. Perkins,
Capt. G. Allan Hancock, Waldo L. Schmitt, H. M. Wegeforth, Fred C.
Ziesenhenne. Front row: Ray Elliott, Jr., Louis Filley, George Hugh
Banning, Sterling Smith, Hermann Marsh, John S. Garth. Executive officer
W. Charles Swett does not appear, as he took the photograph.

of existence. On Indefatigable Island is another little group of settlers,
consisting of two families and two or three Norwegian and Ecuadorian
fishermen. One settler is an architect from the States who, when the
depression brought him low financially, came here with his wife. He
preferred to live where he could establish a home and plantation by
his own efforts rather than to starve or live on charity in the big
cities.

Altogether, we visited 12 of the 16 islands accredited to the Gala-
pagos group, spending from one to six days at each stop. Intensive
bo
bo

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

collecting was carried on at all times, and we obtained what will un-
doubtedly prove to be the most comprehensive single collection of
Crustacea ever brought away from those islands. Probably the most
outstanding finds were the fresh-water Crustacea found in rain-filled
lava crevices and fresh-water streams on various islands. Preliminary
surveys of all the material collected reveal so far three new species of
crabs, a new species of starfish, a new species of pycnogonid, and
many new records. The take of foraminifera alone has proved to bea
revelation, containing many more new species and records than one
could have believed existed in the region.

On February 27 we departed from the Galapagos Islands, making
for Panama, including on the way a four-day stop at the famed
treasure island, Cocos, and on the fifth of March we reached Panama,
where the replenishment of stores and other wants necessitated a
four-day stay at Balboa. An overnight visit to the Barro Colorado
Island Laboratory was made possible through the kindness of Dr.
James Zetek, resident director.

The journey homeward was as busy a time for all members of the
party as had been the earlier portion of the expedition. Collections
were made at Bahia Honda, Republic of Panama; Puerto Culebra,
Costa Rica; and Tangola-Tangola Bay, Oaxaca, Petatlan Bay, Guer-
rero, Tenacatita Bay, Jalisco, Isabel Island, Sinaloa, and Santa Maria
Bay, Baia California, Mexico.

Such, in brief, was our busy and crowded itinerary. Throughout,
all members of the staff of the expedition and the entire crew ren-
dered all assistance in their power to make the whole undertaking
an unqualified success. Captain Hancock took an interested and active
part in all of our several endeavors, and to him, as sponsor, captain
of the vessel, and director of the expedition, is wholly due what mea-
sure of success we may individually have attained. Equally grateful
are we to W. Charles Swett, Captain Hancock’s most able lieutenant,
who, in addition to his multifarious duties as first executive officer,
was also the ever busy photographer and cinematographer of the
expedition. All but one of the photographs adorning this account are
the results of his labors.

The making fast of the Velero III to her dock at San Pedro,
Calif., on March 25 marked the end of this glorious cruise to the
Galapagos, except for packing the collections and returning to
Washington.
NOGRCKOSs-BARTEE TT ARCTIC EXPEDITION, 1933
Ihe (GAP 1 ek, TEVA IIE IS WAP

For the past 10 years it has been my pleasure to work in cooperation
with the Smithsonian Institution each year in furthering scientific
studies of the forms of animal and plant life of Arctic lands and waters
and their zoogeographic distribution. Particularly rich have been the
collections of marine life, chiefly invertebrate, comprising decapod
crustaceans, amphipods, isopods, barnacles, copepods, alcyonarians,
worms, foraminifera, other bottom organisms and deposits, mollusks ;
also fish, birds, and small mammals. Algae and terrestrial plants have
been collected, as have also insects. Reports on these groups and others
for which specialists are available are either in process of being worked
up or are awaiting publication. Incidentally, the only male specimen
of the Arctic bumble bee, Bombus hyperboreus Schonherr, in the Na-
tional Museum collection was picked up on our 1931 expedition to
northeast Greenland. To date, from among the thousands of speci-
mens of foraminifera that I have collected, 100 species, representing
64 genera, have been recorded by Dr. J. A. Cushman. Not less than
10 of these proved to be new species.

The organization of the present trip was made possible by the gen-
erous cooperation of Arthur D. Norcross, of New York City, my
associate and companion on other northern expeditions. Early in June
1933, my little Morrissey headed away from New York on her eighth
trip to the land of the Great White North. Dr. Waldo L. Schmitt,
curator of marine invertebrates, United States National Museum, had
seen that the collecting equipment was in proper shape. He has been
for Io years or more my inspiration, and under his guidance and en-
thusiasm I am becoming more and more interested and enlightened in
the work and care of the collection. No one knows but myself the
great thrill I get when the dredge comes up and its contents are spread
out on deck or on the ice floe.

Leaving Brigus, we decided to go through the Hudson Strait, up
Fox Channel, through Fox Basin to Fury and Hecla Strait; and, if
ice conditions were right, to go on through and come out through
Lancaster Sound into Baffin Bay and over to Cape York to the site of
the Peary Monument. On the way up the Labrador coast I stopped at
Turnavik and gave the three families living there enough salt to

23
24 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

a

Fic. 28.—Captain Bartlett and one of his Eskimo friends.

Frc. 29—Unusual close-up of a walrus off the Labrador Coast.
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1933 25

cure their catch of cod the coming summer. Turnavik was first
visited by my father, then a young man, 65 years ago. He had his own
steamer and about 500 men, boys, and girls, with all the supplies to
catch and cure the cod, salmon, and trout. He traded with the Nascopie
Indians and Eskimo for furs, ete. The cod, when cured by the sun
in the fall, was shipped to Spain, Portugal, Italy, and Greece, in small
square-rigged Welsh vessels. The salmon and trout, with the cod-
liver oil and furs, went to St. John’s, Newfoundland. It is very sad
today to see only a few houses and a store or two, a wharf and a
couple of boats—all that is left at Turnavik.

Knowing the coast so well and the inland waters, I could carry on,
having smooth water and fine weather, all through the 24 hours. Mag-
nificent scenery unfolds itself along the Labrador coast, similar to
that of the Norwegian fiords. On and on we went, with plenty of
field ice to bother us, but fine weather. We saw walruses, polar bears,
and birds, and at every chance we used the dredge both on the Labra-
dor coast and going into Hudson Strait. Much ice and strong cur-
rents were encountered, and at times I would not have given much
for the Morrissey’s chances. The ice coming out of Fox Basin between
Salisbury Island and the Baffin Island shore prevented our getting
north early, so I steamed over to Southampton Island, and on up
through Roe’s Welcome, which is the strait between the west shores of
Southampton Island and the coast of North America. In this part of
the Welcome the whalers from New Bedford, New London, Mystic,
and Stonington long ago caught thousands and thousands of right
whales.

We tried to get out through Frozen Strait into Fox Channel, but
ice conditions were too bad, and we had to retrace our journey to the
north shore of the Hurd Channel and start over the trail taken by the
British sailing ships Fury and Hecla which in 1821, 1822, and 1823
made the first visits in history to this part of the world. England was
seeking the northwest passage, and every nook, cranny, and corner
trending westward was searched by their ships or their small boats,
and when the freeze-up came, they pulled sledges. Against the titanic
forces of nature, in terrible storms of wind, fog, and snow, with
compass irregularities, and over water that no white man had ever
traversed, these heroic souls worked their two little square-rigged
vessels up the Melville Peninsula, reaching the Fury and Hecla Strait,
which, however, they could not enter owing to ice conditions. We
also, working up over the same trail, had bad ice conditions, and we
also were stopped in our efforts to go through the Fury and Hecla
Strait.
INSTITUTION

SMITHSONIAN

26

‘IO]f VI ue JO ISpa 94}

ye Ispaip 94} Surjnez{—Il °

oY

‘O01 OY} Ut Lassitso py 94 [—'0€

‘OIA

SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1933 27

The season was now getting late, and any day the good weather
would leave us. At every opportunity we used the dredge, in the mouth
of the strait and in the strait, and also in the north portion of the
Fox Basin. This will dovetail into our other work of 1927 in the south-
east part of the basin and Fox Channel. Leaving here around the mid-

Fic. 32—Captain Bartlett preserving specimens brought up by the dredge.

dle of September, in blinding snow and with a good westerly wind, in
five days we reached Turnavik, Labrador, and on the roth of October
we were tied up to our dock at the McWilliams shipyard, Staten Island.
All our collection was turned over to Dr. Schmitt at the National
Museum, and I understand that the material from 125 different
stations comprises more than 2,000 specimens.
ZOOLOGICAL COLLECTING IN SIAM

By HUGH M. SMITH
Adviser and Expert in Fisheries to His Siamese Majesty's Government, and
Associate in Zoology, U.S. National Museum

At the beginning of the year a protracted tour in northwestern
Siam was under way, through a region never before visited on behalf
of the National Museum. The expedition started from Chiengmai,
the ancient capital of northern Siam, headed northwesterly, crossed a
dozen mountain ranges, and reached the remote town of Mehongsoon,
on the Pai River, a tributary of the Salwin. The trail was difficult,
and transportation was a serious matter ; 33 Lao carriers and 12 pack
horses were required to move the equipment of my personal party of
five persons who, with four men to look after the pack train and two
gendarmes, composed the caravan. The Salwin, which for a long
distance forms the boundary between Siam and Burma, was descended
in dug-out canoes 20 meters long and 1 meter wide, each managed by
seven men provided with paddles and poles. Numerous rapids were
“shot ”’, frequent stops were made on both the Siamese and Burmese
sides of the river, and every night a camp was established on a sand
or shingle bank. When the limit of navigation at this season was
reached, pack animals and carriers were resumed, and the expedition
finally reached Moulmein, Burma, at the mouth of the Salwin. It
should be understood that this trip was primarily undertaken for
fishery investigation on behalf of the Siamese Government.

Much of the region traversed was primeval forest jungle, abound-
ing in tigers, leopards, elephants, gibbons and tailed monkeys, deer,
seladang and banteng, bears, etc. Peafowl were common in the river
bottoms and, with pheasants and jungle fowl, contributed to the
larder, which consisted largely of rice and canned goods. A char-
acteristic bird was a forktail (Enicurus), shy, always single or in
pairs, haunting the rocks in mountain brooks in dense jungle; six or
eight might be seen in a day’s march. In swift, shallow streams in
some sections there lived a giant frog, with body over 20 centimeters
long, which is a food delicacy of the mountain people; specimens were
obtained. The eggs are laid in rapid water, and sand and gravel are
heaped over them, making a little mound which the carriers recog-
nized ; a mound opened on January 19 contained well-developed eggs.
The mountain brooks yielded many peculiar fishes, some of them with
gills, mouth parts, and fins strongly modified in form and function

28
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1933 290

Fic. 33.—Typical mountain scenery, northern Siam. There is unbroken
evergreen forest (oak, chestnut, etc.) stretching for scores of miles.

Fic. 34.—A fisherman and his outfit of basket traps, Eastern Siam.
INSTITUTION

SMITHSONIAN

‘opsunt JusoR{pe 9}
Ul punoge spiedoa] “peze]JOD s1oM Sosy JO soroeds
Mou jo Joquinu ke ‘WweIg Usey}iou UT UrejyunoUl ysiy
eB Jo aseq oy} ye SUIMOY ‘punoirsyoerq oy} Ul UAOYS
WeII}S POI dy} UT “Joltiwo JoyeM ov] W— Ole DUEL

‘SSOP O}
jeised A[OWII1}X9 IIB JN ssuleoq UPWUNY 4IP}}e A]otei
yotyM ‘spivdoay JOF JACI IPIOAL} VY ‘Weg Utoy}I0U
‘gpsunf{ uleyunow ul YWWS “WOH Gq —se) LET

2 <i is ;
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1933 31

to adapt them for existence in rapid water. Many people of the
Karen, Lawa, and other races were met with. They live in their
own remote mountain villages, maintain their ancient customs and
dress, and go into the towns only for bartering.

Further collections of mammals, birds, and reptiles were made in
March in Bung Borapet, a vast swampy area in central Siam which
has been dammed, converted into a permanent lake, and set aside as
a fish preserve. Immense numbers of fish-eating and marsh-inhabit-
ing birds (pelicans, herons, egrets, jacanas, rails, coots, moor hens,
teals, terns, anhingas, kingfishers, etc.) occur, together with kites,
hawks, and vultures, and in the trees about the edges of the swamp
are squirrels and long-tailed monkeys, with various passerine birds
such as weaver birds, amadavats, shrikes, and flycatchers.

The Khun Tan Mountains in northern Siam were revisited in May
for the third or fourth time. Among interesting birds obtained was a
broadbill (Serilophus lunatus elizabethae), known from Yunnan but
apparently unrecorded from Siam.

During August and September, and again in December, collections
were made in mountainous sections in the lower part of peninsular
Siam, the scene of Dr. W. L. Abbott’s activities in the interest of
the National Museum many years ago. Birds and mammals are nu-
merous and in great variety, and a number of forms not represented
in recent collections were obtained. Argus pheasants are still fairly
common and their dancing floors in deep jungle are often seen, but
the birds are very wild. The Malayan tapir occurs but is very rare.

Kao Sabab, an extensive isolated mountain rising from the coastal
plain in southeast Siam, was visited in October and November. It 1s
covered with evergreen forest and is largely in a primeval condition
except for rubber plantations and fruit and pepper gardens on its
lower slopes. Mammals that are commonly met with are black bears,
wild boars, hog-badgers, giant and other squirrels, mouse deer, large
short-tailed monkeys (going in bands of 20 to 30), and white-faced
gibbons. Characteristic birds are tree partridges of two species fre-
quenting different altitudes ; pheasants representing the species Gen-
naeus lewist recently described from Cambodia, rather common but
difficult to obtain ; and the remarkable white-and-black oriole (Oriolus
mellianus), of which a good series was secured from the tallest trees
on the higher slopes. A giant cicada with a very loud call was much
in evidence in the dense forest, and in places ticks and land leeches
were very troublesome.

A number of shipments of Siamese natural history material were
forwarded to the National Museum during the year.
INVESTIGATIONS ON ANCIENT CANADBS IN
SOUTHERN ARIZONA

By WALTER HOUGH
Head Curator of Anthropology, U.S. National Museum

In connection with a study of primitive irrigation in the Southwest
the writer visited, from January 23, to March 27, 1933, the Salt River
Valley and other sections in southern Arizona to examine the condi-
tions surrounding the ancient irrigation projects in the valley. This
valley, divided almost equally by the Salt River, comprises many
thousands of acres of level land gently sloping from east to west and
rising gradually north and south from the river, terraced near the
limits north and south. The soil of the valley is rich, thick alluvium
overlying gravels, boulder gravels, and sand layers, denoting heavy
deposition by water in an earlier period. The gravels are of varicolored
hard rocks dating from the Cambrian and subsequent periods, tightly
packed in beds but not cemented.

The vegetation comprises a large number of species of desert
plants, among which may be mentioned cottonwood, mesquite, iron-
wood, palo verde, ocotillo, catsclaw, yucca, agave, sahuaro, viznaga,
encelia, sage, covillea, and small ground-cover plants. The most con-
spicuous tree is the cottonwood. A great variety of exotic plants have
been introduced into the valley. The valley was never forested, and the
early task of clearing off the vegetation by fire and the stone hoe was
not difficult.

Since the building of the Roosevelt Dam and the clearing of the
valley for irrigation, most of the evidence of the early canals has been
lost. Sections of the old ditches along the river may be seen. The
heads dug in boulder beds on the Pima Reserve east of Mesa are
well preserved, and the work represented excites wonder (figs. 37-39).
An aerial survey undertaken by Neil M. Judd, with the assistance of
the War Department, picked up many canals not to be seen from the
ground and corrected former surveys made by Frank Hamilton
Cushing and F. W. Hodge, E. R. Patrick, engineer, and Dr. Omar
Turney from 1893 to 1905. The canal system at Casa Grande was
surveyed by Dr. Byron Cummings. The Indian work represents skill-
ful engineering in getting the water on the land. Odd S. Halseth, city
archeologist of Phoenix, advances the idea that the land served by the
early canals along the river became useless on account of saturation.
This feature was encountered in recent years by the Irrigation Dis-

32
33

SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1933

‘spoq JaBARIS YSnoIy} [BUR JUIIOUR JO ASINO)— RE “LT

‘Z1ly 'X1us0y4
Jvou sjeurd justoue JO peosy jo uolIyDIG—LE “OL

34 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

trict and a pumping system was required to carry excess water to
lower levels.

Remains of ancient Indian adobe settlements are scattered over the
valley. One important ruin preserved for science is the property of
the Heard Museum and lies in the heart of Phoenix. Another, in
the eastern section of the city, is under the care of Mr. Halseth, being
excavated by him and prepared as a civic attraction. The ruin Los
Muertos, explored by Cushing, lies south of Tempe. Other ruins have
been leveled. Collections of archeological interest are to be seen in
the Heard Museum and the Phoenix Free Museum, Phoenix, and
the University of Arizona Museum at Tucson.

In the late seventeenth century the first white man penetrating the
valley found that the Indians had abandoned the canalizations of their

Fic. 39 Embankment of ancient canals near Phoenix, Ariz.

forefathers. The Pimas had no traditions as to the reasons for this
nor as to the time when they were abandoned. It is evident that the
Pimas are a remnant of the large population that constructed scores
of miles of the canals and were decimated by causes unknown. The
Pimas still irrigate by means of canals that lead from the river and
are filled at the time of floods. It appears that the former inhabitants
of the large adobe ruins near Tucson, visited during the course of this
study, watered their fields mainly by warping along the Santa Cruz
River and the Rillito.

In conclusion, it may be said that the canal system of the Salt and
Gila Rivers is a development of the warping irrigation practiced by
other Southwestern Indians. Credit for assistance in this investigation
is due Dr. Byron Cummings, Col. J. H. McClintock, Will C. Barnes,
and Odd S. Halseth.
Cx BURTAES IN SOUTHWESTERN TEXAS

By FRANK M. SETZLER
Assistant Curator, Division of Archeology, U.S. National Museum

The Smithsonian Institution’s archeological program in southwest-
ern Texas was concentrated in the Pecos River valley. From Febru-
ary to June, 1933, one large and one small cave were completely
excavated.

Both caves were on property owned by Mrs. E. P. Bell, of Del Rio,
Texas, who willingly sanctioned the work and by her cooperation made
our sojourn very pleasant. R. E. McDonald, in charge of Plant
Quarantine and Control Administration, United States Department
of Agriculture, at San Antonio, Texas, again assisted us. His own
personal interest and the services of his department greatly con-
tributed to the success of the expedition.

The large cave (fig. 40), about 200 feet above the Pecos River in
the wall of the canyon, is approximately 40 feet wide at its mouth and
300 feet deep. The other cave, which opened on a small canyon just
south of Deadman’s Canyon, a tributary of the Pecos, measured about
69 feet in width and 38 feet in depth.

In the large one, known as the Moorehead Cave, a very interesting
burial was disclosed. Near the west wall, just below the surface of
the deposit, was a thick stratum of yucca leaves and debris which
rested on and around large limestone blocks. Under the stones were
small branches from the persimmon, shin oak, and mountain laurel,
with the leaves still attached. Beneath this covering of limbs were
several complete mats somewhat similar to fragments found during
the previous two seasons. Five large mats, some of them painted, were
in a rather good state of preservation and were wrapped around a
body and tied with lechuguilla cordage and split leaves. When the mats
were folded back we found the articulated bones of a middle aged
woman (fig. 41). Beneath the bones encircling the midriff was a
narrow band of matting. This, woven in practically the same manner
as the large mats, may have served as a belt. Beneath the pelvic bones
was what appeared to be a small skirt or pad made of either fur or
apocynum. Several strands of Jechuguilla cordage served as apron
strings. These were the only objects found with the body.

Directly beside this woman, enclosed in a beautifully woven mat,
painted on one side with red squares and dots in the center of each
square, were fragments of a disarticulated adult male skeleton. The

35
6 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

=~, . ai a
Fic. 41.—Burial of an adult woman. To the left, under tag and whisk
broom, were the cremated bones of an adult male (see fig. 42).

ae a

s 5 iSF i Shee

Fic. 42—The large painted mat with the broken and cremated bones
of an adult male.
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1933 a7
bones had been broken and then burned before burial in the mat
(fig. 42). Both bodies had been placed in a large pit lined with grass.
Such a combination of cremated and flesh burials lying adjacent to
each other in the same grave 1s very unusual.

In the cave near Deadman’s Canyon, designated Goat Cave, we
found two graves dug in sotol ashes and lined with grass. After the
bodies had been placed in these grass pockets they were covered with
mats and fragments of milling stones. The dry ashes had preserved
them so well that the flesh and hair still adhered to the bones and one
could almost detect the expressions on their faces (fig. 43). Even some
of the viscera were preserved. One of the desiccated bodies with its
fur robe, mats, baskets, etc., reached the Museum intact.

Fic. 43.—Desiccated body in Goat Cave.

Numerous similarities and a few variations are significant when a
comparison is made between the cultural material from these caves
and those dug in the previous seasons. No evidence of corn was found
in either of the two caves, which was rather surprising since there were
such large quantities of corn cobs farther west. Over 300 various
types of complete flint projectile points were recovered, whereas only a
few were found in the Chisos Mountain region. The typical split-
stitch type of coiled basketry farther west is not the dominant type in
the Pecos, although it does occur. It is superseded by a type known as
the interlocking stitch with a single-bundle foundation. The accouter-
ments associated with the adult burials in the Moorehead and Goat
Caves excel the few artifacts associated with child burials uncovered
in Brewster and Presidio Counties.
A PHASE OF HOPEWEEL MOUND BUILDERS EN
LE OWTSIEAINES

By FRANK M. SETZLER
Assistant Curator, Division of Archeology, U.S. National Museum

In June 1933, the city of Marksville, La., acquired a group of ad-
jacent mounds for development as a park. Early in the summer,
the city council voted to begin the planned improvements, and the
council and the local officers of the Emergency Relief Administration
of Louisiana jointly invited the Smithsonian Institution to send one of
its staff to supervise the restorations.

All was in readiness when I reached Marksville, August 22.
Through the excellent support of the Park Committee, the town coun-
cil, J. A. Skelton, J. O. Brouillette, and Walter Chatelain, and es-
pecially through the cordial cooperation of Mr. and Mrs. U. B. Evans
of Alexandria, more work was accomplished within the next 10 weeks
than would have been possible under ordinary circumstances. James
A. Ford, of Clinton, Miss., assisted in supervision of restorations and
remained in charge after my return to Washington, November 1.

The city had acquired over two thirds of the land, including mounds
4, 5, and 6, as well as a pure Hopewell village site, within the well-
preserved enclosure known as the Marksville Works. Mound 4,
partially excavated by the late Gerard Fowke in 1926, was further
examined and found to contain many data of archeological signifi-
cance. Village debris, disclosed by numerous decorated potsherds,
had largely been used as building material for the mound. Traces
of 12 burials with a few accompanying earthenware offerings were
disclosed during our operations. Other artifacts recovered include
clay platform or monitor pipes, a cut conch shell, one small fragment
of copper, and numerous chipped flint projectile points (fig. 44).
The surface of the village site was strewn with incised decorated
potsherds, fragments of platform pipes, flint knife blades, crudely
chipped projectile points, and a crystal quartz bannerstone fragment
(fig. 45). A rectangular semisubterranean outline of a house was
here revealed. Most of these artifacts are similar to those found
in the northern Hopewell mounds, which represent one of the highest
and most spectacular prehistoric mound-building cultures in the
Mississippi Valley.

A most unusual pottery vessel, elliptical in form and embodying
two distinct types of decorative patterns, came from mound 4. One
half has the usual northern Hopewell technique, namely, convention-
alized birds outlined by smooth bands between deeply incised lines,

38
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS,

1933

Fic. 44.—Potsherds, projectile points, and clay platform pipes from mound 4,
Marksville Works.

Fic. 45—Potsherds, clay platform pipe fragments, projectile points, flake knives
and bannerstone fragment from village site in Marksville Works.

Fic. 46.—Vessels from mound 4. Center, unusual vessel combining two
methods of decoration: the usual northern Hopewell on the right side, fluted

on the left side. Right, vessel with scroll design in the usual Hopewell tech-
nique. Left, vessel with fluted design.
40 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

the rest of the surface roughened by roulette and zigzag. On the other
half is a well-balanced design of deeply incised concentric and parallel
lines closely spaced, producing a complex fluted surface. The decora-
tion on both covers the rounded base, which is slightly constricted
between the two patterns, giving the illusion that two small circular
vessels had been joined together. Around the neck is the usual line of
bisected cone indentations (fig. 46). The conventionalized bird design
and the bisected cones are found on vessels from the Hopewell mounds
in the north. But the fluted design has never been reported, although
this technique is used on several vessels and numerous potsherds
from Marksville. This vessel, therefore, combining the two tech-
niques, establishes a relationship between the fluted and the northern

oe NG ri i
POT, Das |
oe ele N

Fic. 47—Removing earth from habitation level 34 feet below surface of
mound 6.

Hopewell. The closely spaced incised-line method of decoration also

appears on vessels found associated with the Caddo type of ware.

Another jar has a scroll design around the body, incised in the usual
Hopewell manner of decoration (fig. 46). The scroll is a common
motif in the Southeast, especially on vessels associated with Tunica,
Natchez, and Caddo remains.

The data obtained give definite proof that the prehistoric Indians
who lived and built the mounds on this site were closely allied in their
culture-phase to those known as the Hopewell in the northern Missis-
sipp1 Valley. Because of variations, however, especially in the mode of
burial, and the lack of certain northern cultural traits, this phase
should be considered a southeastern variant. Marksville is the first site
in the Southeast producing so clear a relationship.
Me RIZONASVILEAGE OF A THOUSAND YEARS AGO
By FRANK H. H. ROBERTS, JR.

Archeologist, Bureau of American Ethnology

The remains of a small village built, occupied, and abandoned dur-
ing the ninth century were excavated by the writer during the months
of July and August, 1933, while he was on leave of absence from the
Bureau of American Ethnology. The ruins are located 34 miles south
of Allantown, Ariz., at the foot of the escarpment that forms the
western border of Whitewater Valley. They are adjacent to the site
where researches were conducted during the field seasons of 1931 and
1932. The 1933 work was done under the auspices of the Laboratory
of Anthropology at Santa Fe, N. Mex., as a part of its annual pro-
gram of field training for graduate students in anthropology. The
party was composed of men, holders of Laboratory fellowships, chosen
from Harvard, Oklahoma University, the University of Texas, and
the University of Minnesota. Zuni and Navajo Indians were employed
as workmen to assist in the actual digging operations.

The area chosen for investigation was small enough so that it could
be uncovered completely during the time available for such work. At
the close of the season two unit dwellings—one consisting of five
rooms and an underground chamber, the other containing seven rooms

and a subterranean chamber—a third underground structure, and sev-
eral courts had been excavated. Trenches through the refuse mounds
yielded 24 burials with accompanying mortuary offerings. The skele-
tal remains furnish material for a study of the physical characteris-
tics of the people and the objects from the graves supply examples
of the village handicraft. In the collection of specimens, which in-
cludes pottery, stone tools, bone implements and ornaments, perhaps
the most striking are some tiny beads, made from white and red shells,
found in a pile in the corner of a room. They are so small that they
average 20 to the inch, and when threaded, they made a string 37 feet
34 inches long, one of the longest ever found in the Southwest.
Despite its small size, the site contributed valuable data on develop-
ments occurring within a single phase in the history of the pre-Spanish
Pueblo Indians. The village was not erected in its entirety at the
outset. It grew gradually through the construction of new rooms and
additional enclosures. While this expansion was taking place, changes

*Explorations and Field-work of the Smithsonian Institution in 1931, pp. 141-
150, 1932; idem, 1932, pp. 65-68, 1933.

41
42 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

were made in the methods and technique of construction. As a con-
sequence it is possible to trace the steps in the transition between the
characteristic house types of two cultural horizons, namely, Pueblo |
and Pueblo II. In the erection of walls three forms of masonry
were progressively employed. The first consisted of large stone slabs
set upright around the periphery of the room, the second was marked
by vertical slab foundations with overlying horizontally laid stones,
and the third was composed wholly of flat courses. A few timbers used
as roof beams were sufficiently preserved to make possible their
dating by means of the tree-ring method, and these show that the
village was erected and occupied during the period between 800 and

850 A. D. There was nothing suggesting a reason for the abandon-
ment of the place.

———— < iy =

— CS

Fic. 48.—View of site taken shortly after beginning of investigations.

Several things that open limitless fields for speculation and con-
jecture were noted during the progress of the excavations. Among
these were a legless skeleton on the bench in one of the ceremonial
chambers ; a skeleton, with bashed-in skull, lying in such a position as
to indicate that the body had been hurled face downward, hands tied
behind the back, into a shallow pit and then covered over; a human
foot embedded in plaster behind a large stone slab in the corner of a
room; a man’s leg bone, scored and scratched by the sharp teeth of a
enawing animal, buried beneath a pile of refuse; a small cemetery
in which a number of turkeys and dogs had been interred, apparently
with as much care as was shown in burying deceased human members
of the community. Behind each of these disclosures there doubtless lies
a story, which, could it be known, would reveal curious aspects of
the mental attitude and social behavior peculiar to the times.
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1933 43

Fic. 49.—Portion of completed excavation showing two types of wall
construction.

a eS

ea
Pek Bee

Fre. 50.—One end of the village. Man is standing on floor of a subterranean
chamber.

4
HUNTING ANCIENT ‘RUINS IN NORTHEASTERN
HONDURAS

By W. D. STRONG

Anthropologist, Bureau of American Ethnology

For many years reports of great stone cities with carved monu-
ments located somewhere in the little-known jungle region of the
Patuca River have reached the ears of archeologists. Allan Payne,
research associate of Johns Hopkins University, organized an expedi-
tion under the auspices of the Smithsonian Institution to investigate
these rumors and to determine whether a hitherto unknown ex-
tension of the Maya culture might not be here represented. Norman
A. Haskell, a graduate student in geology at Harvard University,
financed the work and, with the writer, who was the direct repre-
sentative of the Smithsonian Institution, accompanied the expedi-
tion. The party was in the field from February 2 to July 11, 1933.

The expedition established its base at Puerto Castilla, where we re-
ceived every possible courtesy and assistance from the various repre-
sentatives of the United Fruit Company. From this point we pro-
ceeded down the coast to Brewers Lagoon. Here a large native dug-out
canoe, an outboard motor, and two local assistants were acquired.
Thus equipped, we proceeded up the river, which in its alligator-
infested lower reaches is rather wide and flows through a flat terrain
covered with dense vegetation. The river playas were crowded with
Miskito Indians driven off the Wanks River in Nicaragua by the
numerous bandit raids that had been disturbing this hinterland area
between Nicaragua and Honduras.

No ruins were encountered until we had passed into the more
mountainous regions and reached the mouth of the Wampu, where
a very large mound group was discovered at Wankybila, “ the trail
to the Wanks,” which river at this place is less than 25 miles distant.
We worked our way up the small and rapid Wampu River as far
as a Sumu Indian village at Pautarbusna, making collections from
these little-known people (figs. 52a and 50) and gathering ethnological
data. One small mound was examined, and the vicinity yielded a

few archeological specimens (fig. 52b). Further progress being 1m-

t
c

possible in a large dug-out, we returned and proceeded up the Patuca

44
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1933 45

Fic. 51—Camp on Patuca River at mouth of Yapowas Creek where shark
was caught.

Fic. 52.—Artifacts from northeastern Honduras: a, modern Sumu pot from
Wanks River (8 inches) ; b, stone stool and mace head from the Wampu River ;
c, green stone bowl from mounds at Wankybila.

INSTITUTION

SMITHSONIAN

6

“IOATY BoNJEg Wosy YeYS JoyeM-ysot—CS “ony

*(soyour F11)
OYOURT() JO JOLYSIC, ‘sOoTePY Ue eau puNnoW YyIeo Wosy jod poyureg—TS “dy

SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1933 A7

to another Sumu village. While fishing here, some 180 miles from salt
water, we caught a 4-foot fresh-water shark, the first to be recorded
from these rivers (fig. 55). The party divided at this point, Mr.
Payne and Mr. Haskell continuing up the Patuca to examine some
small mounds on the Cuyamel branch, while I remained at Wankybila
to excavate. Assisted by some Miskito Indians, | mapped the large,
definitely arranged plaza and earthworks, making trial excavations in
four mounds, which proved to be entirely of earth with cores of red,
burned clay (figs. 52c, 53). All the pottery obtained from this and
other sites on the Patuca, Wampu, and Cuyamel Rivers is of a simple
Chorotegan type, and no evidence of Maya occupation was observed.
The lower and middle river does not seem to be very promising
archeologically, but further work at Wankybila should yield valuable
results.

While engaged in this work, considerable excitement was caused
by the passage of six men, recognized to be Nicaraguan bandits, who
were fleeing from up-river on a raft. They were later arrested on
Black River by Honduran officials. On the return of the up-river
party we proceeded to the coast.

In June we reached the upper tributaries of the Patuca, having
crossed the Cordilleras by mule from Bonito Farm. On this trip of
some 400 miles we located about 12 large and hitherto unreported
sites, as well as a considerable number of small, rough stone structures.
Particularly noteworthy was a rectangular ruin on the Bonito River
with stone walls 4 feet high and a front of too feet. The ruin was
divided into three rooms, which contained five large stone tables and
a walled-in pit. The other large sites were formally arranged earth
and stone mounds, often with rough monoliths, plazas, and stone
causeways. The pottery samples from these sites were somewhat
more complex than those from the lower Patuca but were otherwise
similar. From Juticalpa we flew to the beautiful city of Tegucigalpa,
where we had the opportunity of rendering thanks in person to the
officials of the Honduras Government for their cordial cooperation.
Returning to Juticalpa, we examined two mound sites between that
town and Catacamas, one of which, near San Marcos, yielded pottery
of a more westerly type (fig. 54). Crossing the high, pine-covered
country of the Paya Indians we visited these people at Culmi and
Carbon (fig. 57). From Carbon we returned to Puerto Castilla over
our former route.
INSTITUTION

SMITHSONIAN

48

‘uogie) }e OJIM pue uv ePARG—ZLS “OILY

“eusnqieyneg Ieou UIUIOM numng—'9s “OT

Newer OLOGCICNe CKUISK AMWONG: THE. BAY
ISLANDS - OF HONDURAS

By W. D. STRONG
Anthropologist, Bureau of American Ethnology

During April and May, 1933, the Smithsonian expedition to Hon-
duras made an archeological survey of the Bay Islands. These islands,
first visited by Columbus in 1502, have had a very colorful history.
Raided by Spanish slave hunters, the haunt of British buccaneers, and
the cause of a tense diplomatic situation in which Great Britain,
Honduras, and the United States were involved, they now belong to
Honduras. Not only beautiful, but with a healthful climate, they are
peacefully occupied by a strange mixture of peoples—Spanish, English,
Scotch, West Indian Negro, Black Carib, and at least one Turk. The
original Indian population, depleted through earlier slave raids, was
forcibly removed to Guatemala by the Spanish in 1650. In 1797 the
British landed the rebellious Caribs from St. Vincent at Port Royal.
Roatan Island, from which place they have spread rapidly along the
adjacent mainland. Thus, the islands are a little heterogeneous world
quite distinct from the rest of the republic.

Having secured the necessary permits at Coxxen Hole, the capital,
named, I believe, after one of the pirates who first sacked Panama
City, we skirted the south coast of Roatan. On one of the highest
ridges we were so fortunate as to find an untouched Indian offertory
shrine. Here hundreds of years ago were deposited broken pottery,
small votive pots, stone metates and mullers, celts, mace heads, beauti-
fully chipped knives, and grotesque clay figurines. These were all
shuffled together just beneath the present surface in a space about 35
feet in diameter. In the center was a nest of large potsherds arranged
in onion-skin layers to protect a central offering. When this covering
had been carefully removed, an intact vase was revealed (fig. 62).
When this vessel was freed from dirt, it proved to be polychrome in
decoration, having an orange slip decorated with a plumed serpent
design in black and dark red (fig. 60). Inside were nearly 500 small
votive offerings, including copper and shell bells, earplugs, pendants,
carved green stone faces with plumed headdresses (fig. 59), and a
great variety of stone beads. On the lip of the vessel was a small

49
50 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Fre. 58.—Wild fig grove, Barburata Island.

Fic. 59.—Greenstone carvings and copper bells, Bay Islands: a-f, Roatan
Island offertory; g, Utila.
“(soyour $6) JOAIY BOT,
ay Aqs UL TB] TUUIS ‘AIO IOIO purysyT eyeinqieg WOIf ISP A—IO OL] wot, *(sayour Q) pueysyT ur}Jeoy ‘asea dWlO.1YIATO F—0g “OL

WO1} SOSBA JIGIPUL 0} ‘Apassey “9 “WAC sulqured
J I a) FO) Gh XG] i daca

SI

PS)

XN PLORATIONS,

E

SMITHSONIAN

bo

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Sal

stone celt (fig. 62), and nearby were a large number of quartz
crystals.

As one stood at this jungle shrine, from which glimpses could be
obtained of both shores of the island and of the distant mainland, it
was easy to conjure up a picture of the plumed priests and worshippers
come to deposit offerings to the mountain gods. The alien nature of
certain of these offerings called to mind the Indian traders from the
mainland, whom Columbus met at Bonacca Island, and the broken
model of a river canoe (fig. 62), placed by the central deposit, fur-
thered the suggestion.

On Helena Island we found two caves next to a gloomy mangrove
swamp, one of which had been lived in, whereas the other, marked
by a stalagmite of human form, was evidently a shrine. Barburata
Island is perhaps the most beautiful of the group (fig. 58), and here
we investigated two disturbed shrines. Murat Island gave little prom-
ise, but our hasty visit to Bonacca included investigations at a hill-
top fort, a sacrificial spring, and a large stone-walled enclosure with
mounds and monoliths. Only two days could be spent on Utila, which
has many sites; a series of burial grounds with both extended and
urn burials and a great living site near the town of [kast Harbor are
the most impressive. Of another age is the old buccaneer fort and
town at Port Royal on Roatan where broken rum bottles are still
being washed up and down by the surf.

As a whole, the material from the islands is surprising. In many
things it agrees with the adjacent Chorotegan mainland, but there are
also many traits showing more distant connections. Much of the pot-
tery, especially the thin polychrome ware (predominantly from the
upper layers), certain greenstone carvings, and the mace heads are
more characteristic of the Nicoya Peninsula on the Pacific. The cop-
per bells, stone knives, plumed heads, and some of the ceramics point
to the north and west. Particularly striking are a number of vessels
closely duplicating, in pottery, the beautiful marble vases from the
Uloa Valley (fig. 61). Finally, in lugs and incised decoration on the
unslipped pottery are certain Antillean resemblances. As to the ulti-
mate derivation of this rather heterogeneous composite, preliminary
study suggests South American rather than northern origins.
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1933

Sat
ios)

Fic. 63.—Broke states i
3.—Broken metates and other artifacts, Barburata Island offertory.
RESCUING THEE ANE eEiSD © RY Ors iii
CALIFORNIA INDIANS

By JOHN P. HARRINGTON
Ethnologist, Bureau of American Ethnology

Each month that passes is sweeping us farther from good sources
of information on the ancient life of the western Indians. After 80
years of overwhelming contact with the Americans, old informants are
now being reduced in number faster than ever before—at a truly
alarming rate. The customs and languages of these western Indians
were intensely diversified locally and reached some of the strangest

peaks of development known to anthropological science. The impor-
tance of this information for use in textbooks and comparative studies
makes the immediate rescue of the data one of the most desirable
ethnological undertakings of the present time.

The Spanish period of history in California left us only one account
that deals with the life of the Indians in detail, a remarkable book
written by Father Jeronimo Boscana, one of the Franciscan mission-
aries. Mr. Harrington's field-work during the present calendar year,
carried on while on leave of absence from the Bureau of American
Ethnology, has been concentrated on getting out a new and thorough
publication on the material presented by Father Boscana, and has been
attended by remarkable success. Every available source of informa-
tion has been utilized, the bulk of the notes resulting from interviews
with the older Indians. Scores of letters have been written to uni-
versity professors and others in this country and abroad. Archeo-
logical sites have been visited and mapped. Old mission records have
been exhaustively studied and copied. Place names have been identi-
fied, with the help of mission records and of the oldest informants.

One of the most fruitful sources of information has been a collec-
tion of Chinigchinich songs reaching far back into the past. These
songs are in a special archaic language. They are at present in the
hands of Miss Helen H. Roberts, Institute of Human Relations, Yale
University, for transcription into musical notation.

As a result of this study, the person of Chinigchinich, prophet and
divinity, is established. He must be considered as one of the greatest
religious leaders and founders among the American Indians, second
only to the founder of the ghost dance as regards the far spread of his
law. When first encountered by Europeans, practically all of the tribes
of the southern California coast followed his faith. We shall never

54
Lo @)
we)

22
Vo

G9)

XPLORATIONS,

Is

SMITHSONIAN

‘uoysutsiep] “qd “[ Aq ydessojoyd
‘punoss oy} 0} Suljaer UeIpuy Ue pues [IM Sd}JOIVSID 9Soy}
jo uo uO synd Moy Y “OddeqoO} DATeU YM poly suloq Udy}
aqn} dy} ‘SYS 9]IFT] 99IY} YPM (SMMUULOI SIPWMDDAY J) OZII
-1e) JO aqn} & Jo pus 94} Surssnyjd Aq ape ‘oyjotesio OZI1Ie)
URIPU]T PIUTOFIeD oATeU e Jo ydeasojoyd ysatq—fg “914

‘soqurAdoy zonbriuezy{, Aq ydersojyoyd ,,}°40L,,

I} se euessog Joye Aq paqisosap suin}sod [PIUOUII199
B UL passaip deTvD Ofa}0S uenf Jory) ArepposI] Om Ole|

56 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

know the date of Chinigchinich’s birth because of the blending of
mythic elements with the account of his life. We do know, however,
the place of his birth: it is a site on the Fred H. Bixby ranch on
Alamitos Bay, near Long Beach, Los Angeles County, Calif., and
should be marked as one of the most famous sites of aboriginal
history. It was there that the Indian leader was born and revealed
himself to people, and from there he ascended to heaven.

The notes on the Boscana material are now complete and are in
process of final elaboration for publication. Interspersed with the
preparation of the Boscana publication other urgent lines of inquiry
have been followed, resulting in a large accumulation of valuable notes,
texts, and songs.

Fic. 66.—Inscription in cave near Piru, Calif., commemorating the removal
from the cave of the rarest cache of ceremonial objects ever discovered in
southern California by McCoy Pyle in 1884. The cave was rediscovered by
R. F. Van Valkenburgh and J. P. Harrington in the summer of 1933. Photo-
graph by R. F. Van Valkenburgh.

R. F. Van Valkenburgh and the writer discovered near Piru, in
Ventura County, Calif., the cave from which, in 1884, McCoy Pyle
took a remarkable cache of ceremonial feather objects. Cut on the wall
of this cave was found the inscription: ‘““ MAC 1884.” (See fig. 66.)

Every effort was made to obtain data on local customs connected
with the use of tobacco. Information was obtained on the use of the
carrizo cigarette (fig. 65). This type of tobacco container for smok-
ing was entirely aboriginal. The carrizo cigarette is known in Cali-
fornia Spanish as torepa, a word the original of which has been traced
to the San Juan Bautista language. Three little sticks the size of
matches were inserted in one end of the tube to keep the tobacco from

falling into the mouth.
RO DYING INDIAN MUSIC IN THE GULE STATES

By FRANCES DENSMORE
Collaborator, Bureau of American Ethnology

The study of the music of the American Indians was continued by
the writer during 1933. The field selected was the Gulf States, and
the purpose of the work, aside from the preservation of songs and
gathering data on musical customs, was to ascertain whether a cer-
tain period formation of melody was used by tribes in this region.
Briefly described, this consists of a long opening period, followed by
one or more short periods which are higher in pitch and different in
rhythm. The elaborations of the pattern are not of present interest.
Previous study had disclosed the use of this pattern in Yuman songs
(1922), in songs recorded by Tule Indians from Panama (1924), in
songs by Indians from Acoma, Isleta, and Cochiti Pueblos (1928,
1930, 1931), and in songs recorded in 1932 by a Seminole of the
northern (Cow Creek) group in Florida, as well as in songs of the
southern (Everglades) Seminole, but not in Alibamu songs recorded
in Texas (1932). In this season’s field-work it was found among the
Choctaw in Mississippi and, again, among the Florida Seminole. The
distribution of this melodic pattern suggests former contacts of tribes.

In January the writer visited the Chitimacha Indians who live on
Bayou Teche, near Charenton, La. Only 50 members of this tribe
survive; a number were interviewed, but all the songs have been
forgotten. The chief, Benjamin Paul, remembered hearing his grand-
mother sing as she dug medicinal herbs, and related legends in which
songs were formerly interpolated ; he also related the legend of the
origin of the flute. These observations indicate that the old musical
customs of the Chitimacha resembled those of other tribes. Numerous
specimens of basketry were obtained and many photographs taken,
including a picture of an old pirogue on the bayou.

The tribe next visited was the Choctaw, living near Philadelphia,
Miss. The first singer was Sidney Wesley, an old medicine man
(fig. 67), whose songs were recorded in a windowless cabin (fig. 69).
The period formation was heard in the first few songs he recorded
and in many of his later songs. The antiquity of his material was
shown by a song mentioning antagonism toward the Spanish and
French. The tribal ball game was studied with Robert Henry, the
leader in the magic to bring success. He recorded its song, which 1s
the only Choctaw song accompanied by a drum. It was the custom of

D/
INSTITUTION

SMITHSONIAN

8

‘atoulsuaq] ssi Aq sydei

“IISUIS B[OUIWAS ‘JAeN}S I[[Ig—gog “DIY

04g
‘Iosuls MeyOY) ‘Asvsa\\ AUPIS—ZQ “DIY

\

SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1933 59

the medicine men to play flutes during a game, each man having two or
three flutes of diiferent lengths. Henry recorded the playing of three
flutes, one of the instruments being obtained for the National Museum.
A large majority of Choctaw dances are without accompaniment and
a few are accompanied by striking together two short sticks. Both
sorts of dances were witnessed, and the songs recorded by Lysander
Tubby, the leader. This is the first time that unaccompanied dancing
has been noted. The Choctaw do not use a rattle. Seventy-nine Choc-
taw songs were recorded in four localities, by five singers. The
Choctaw specimens included the “ striking sticks’ used with songs,
the implements used in the ball game, a complete woman’s costume,

Fic. 69.—Cabin in which Choctaw songs were recorded. Photograph by
Miss Densmore.

an old headband of beaten silver, and numerous examples of bas-
ketry and beadwork.

The research among the Florida Seminole was conducted at Brigh-
ton, near Okeechobee, where songs were recorded in 1932. Billie
Stuart (fig. 68) again recorded songs with the period formation,
designating them as “long songs”. Other singers were Billie Bow-
legs, grandson of the famous chief of that name, and Susie Tiger,
wife of Billie Stuart, who is actively engaged in treating the sick.
She recorded five of the songs that she uses in her treatments, one
being addressed to a spirit that has supposedly left the body, beseech-
ing it to return. Sixty-eight Seminole songs were recorded, and an old
coconut-shell rattle was obtained. Numerous photographs were taken,
and the writer visited Billie Stuart’s camp in the cabbage palm region.
a
ys
fay

Pah

| ee ti

:
“4 :
a]
a
i
i)
f
A
%
;
fl
:
x
’ 7
’
a.
@
7
é
=
a!
‘ i a :

Si Oy

ep!

Wace iwec bhrel Z4 He

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION |

EXPLORATIONS AND FIELD-WORK OF THE
SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION
LN 1934

(PUBLICATION 3300)

CITY OF WASHINGTON
PUBLISHED BY THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION
1935
SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

EXPLORATIONS AND FIELD-WORK OF THE
SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION
IN 1934

(PUBLICATION 3300)

CITY OF WASHINGTON
PUBLISHED BY THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION
1935
The Lord Baltimore Press

BALTIMORE, MD., U. S. A.
RES BENGE

In carrying out its stated purpose, “ the increase and diffusion of
knowledge,” the Smithsonian Institution and certain of its branches—
namely, the National Museum, the Bureau of American Ethnology,
the Astrophysical Observatory, and the Freer Gallery of Art—send
out each year a number of field expeditions to collect specimens and
data essential to its researches in geology, biology, anthropology, and
astrophysics. This new information is eventually published in one of
the Institution’s technical series, in connection with the results of
the researches ; in this annual pamphlet it is intended merely to pre-
sent a brief illustrated account of the purpose and results of each
of the various expeditions. Again this year, for the sake of economy,
it had been necessary to reduce each account to the smallest possible
size.

Wee a Rum

Editor, Smithsonian Institution.
CONDGENES

PND DO Ca GamOtidiesnOretnesstiimandestarsarc sys sees acess eee.
Bishop, C. W. Archeological field-work in China........................
GlnkarATistinmaMnerbutteniies Om vianOlniaws. asses scence ees ae ie.
Cooper, G. A. See Warthin, A. S., and Cooper, G. A.

Foshag, W. F. Mineralogical investigations in Mexico....................

Friedmann, Herbert. Explorations of Rey. David C. Graham in Szechwan,

(CHnnRaEY a eee Bhi. ai ca er ares CR ORG Ce NR
Gazin, C. Lewis. Fossil hunting in southern Idaho........................
Harrington, John P. Field-work among the Indians of California...........

Hrdlicka, Ales. Archeological excavations on Kodiak Island, Alaska....
Krieger, Herbert W. Salvaging early cultural remains in the valley of the

lkonnaie: AGolliiranl el Toke rie aakids Gnd cn Ge nice Oc DRIES ac Omer
Michelson, Truman. The Passamaquoddy Indians of Maine...............
Roberts, Frank H. H., Jr. A Folsom camp site and workshop.............
Roberts, Frank H. H., Jr. Indian mounds on Shiloh battlefield............
Schmitt, Waldo L. Hancock Galapagos expedition, 1934.................
Smuthe ltueh! Me Zoological collectine: im Siam.........02...0.s0ee 0004 0:
Stigling Mes WeeeAncheolosical workin’ Hlorida...-...2-seses+se456--

Strong, William Duncan. Archeological explorations in the country of the

lseistuernat Clatoraakeiclaly " osatocn wis eed Chena oa eactetac aE PONG ae ORS Eee eee
Swallen, Jason R. Collecting grasses in northeastern Brazil...............
Swanton ohnek. dracine, DesSoto/s route. ss5s4-65- se se. sss ee cous ee on

Walker, Winslow M. Excavating ancient Yokuts shellmounds in California.
Warthin, A. S., and Cooper, G. A. Devonian studies in southwestern Ontario

evovall INU iWelop eae W alco ciseh ete ae PRIN ERG Ore OTS a Ne ae en RM COICO eg ea

tn
ne ae
iy Vina

ae
re!

Pe

Loar
Hi

bina

ae

am

iy
ee rik
iksans

Aint

oyun
i

SUD S<OP DAE SUN AND STARS
By GG ABBOT

Secretary, Smithsonian Institution

The main object of the Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory is
to make a daily record of the variations of the sun’s output of radia-
tion. As the earth’s temperature and rainfall, and all life itself, de-
pend on our quota of solar rays, this research is fundamental. Experi-
ments have been carried on for many years by the Smithsonian
Institution on high mountains in desert lands where measurements of
solar radiation can be made with the least possible interference from
the dust, clouds, water vapor, and other constituents of the earth’s
atmosphere. These experiments made simultaneously at stations in
both the Northern and Southern Hemispheres, and separated by
thousands of miles, agree in demonstrating small percentage changes
in the sun’s output of radiation. Analyses of these variations disclose
at least seven regular periodicities coexisting therein, having periods
ranging from 7 to 68 months. Based on these periodicities, success-
ful predictions have twice been published for 2 years in advance fore-
casting the march of the solar variation.

During the past year a great deal of study has been devoted to
weather records of the past 50 to 100 years, interpreted in view of the
multiplex periodic variation of solar radiation. Inasmuch as the seven
solar periodicities discovered are all nearly integrally contained in a
common interval of nearly 23 years, it is to be expected that if the
solar variation really affects the weather, there may be found in
weather a series of numerous features, which, succeeding each other
during an interval of 23 years, may be recognized, though of course
with some modifications of amplitude and phase in succeeding 23-year
intervals. Such indeed seems to be the case, not only with tempera-
ture and precipitation, but also with things depending on weather,
such as levels of lakes, width of tree rings, catch of fish, and many
life cycles. In illustration, the percentage departures from normal
precipitation in southern New England, when arranged in eight cycles
since the year 1750, yield the following average 23-year curve as given
in tabular and graphic form. Every cycle since 1750 presents the
same principal phenomenon, namely, a considerable rise of precipita-
tion, culminating at about the twelfth year. It is therefore to be ex-
pected that the drought in New England in 1934 will be relieved by
increasing precipitation, culminating in high levels about 1943-44.

I
2 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Percentage Departures from Normal Precipitation in Southern New England
during Eight 23-year Cycles

NI

| | | |
I aia a 5 6 8 9 | Io 11 | 12] 13 14 | 15 | 16 | 17 | 18 | 19 | 20 | 21 22 23

|
—1/+25 —11|+22| +9 —10|—17| —3 +26|+15] —9|—23'—43 Sl 28 |e O|\—14|—25 3) +6) +15
|\—-24|—12| —3} 0|-17,—13] +1) —4|—14| —4 +17|+41|+47 cee qn —5| —7| +4\—26 —17|—23] +10
| |
|-29} —8| —4|—17) +6| —7|—10] +2] —4|-16 —9| +6416, +5] —8 +12) +4|+25|+16] +7] —4) +2] (- 5)

—§|—15| +3] 0|—16)4-26| —2)—14 vale 15) 7-11-14) Oo, —7i—12— 15) —6 | g| —8 (a)
| | | | | | | |
243) 913) 3 | +7| —§|—12|-+4-24! +2) +2-+20-410| +6 1/413] —4l+-17) —4) +2) +9) -+22

| Wei

—12] +4] +4/+14|+16|/+18] 4 6)+12) +7) +7, +1) +5! +8 +4/+23) O—10) +4] —2)—13] +9] —2) (+6)
| | | | | | |
+6|+13/+12/+19 +20 +9|—11| +8/—11| —2 —4 fF 17|4-25| a +7\+18) +7) +4) —1\—10) +1) +2) —11

0) 7A Fl SO eit) SO) 0 —12|-16 2 t 2 al —— 5 byl et Ol OO 23 5
| | |

Mieanl— 9) =-2) (0-2 tn 2) 22a TES ton nal) SO) 5) 3a ie —4 ==] ta)

+10 Ty T T ] |

+8 T a | ° aT t + ~+

+4 t e tL Oo

+2 |-—__p ; zi
0 : : J

PERCENTAGES FROM NORMAL PRECIPITATION

-4 7 — HL ai

=G { | =|
-8 | IL

-10 4 { ir

.

| 3 5 7 9 I 13 15 17 19 2I 23
YEARS
MEAN 225 YEAR CYCLE IN SO. NEW ENGLAND PRECIPITATION.
1750 TO 183)

IBies wt,
SMITHSONIAN

EXPLORATIONS,

1934

MiShe ites aS
HAUG acu

-

5 ©

1G. 2.—Solar observing station on Mount St. Katherine, Sinai Peninsula.

F
4 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

The solar radiation data on which these weather studies depend are
being observed from day to day at three Smithsonian stations, Table
Mountain, Calif., Mount Montezuma, Chile, and Mount St. Katherine,
near Mount Sinai in Egypt. The last-mentioned station has been in
regular operation only since December 1933, but the other two have
operated for many years. The desolate character of Mount St. Kath-
erine is well shown in figure 2. Its sole occupants are Field Director
Zodtner, with his wife and two small children, and Assistant F. A.
Greeley. Although lightened as far as possible by regular work, books,
music, radio, and games, the life there is so greatly isolated as to
severely tax the cheerfulness of the staff.

The writer and L. B. Aldrich conducted an expedition of 24 months’
duration to Mount Wilson, Calif. Four projects were proposed:
A, to improve the solar cooker ; B, to recompare the Smithsonian pyr-
heliometric scale against the new double-chamber compensation water-
flow pyrheliometer ; C, to observe the solar spectrum at great wave
lengths ; D, to measure the energy spectra of the hotter stars.

New solar-cooker mirror surfaces of the stainless steel called
“Allegheny metal ’’ were obligingly prepared by the Allegheny Com-
pany. The great difficulty was to obtain a high polish. But in this
they were successful, reaching a reflecting power of about 80 percent.
These polished sheets were inserted in the parabolic steel frame and
covered by new plate glass. The solar cooker, thus improved, was
far more efficient than ever before. Temperatures varying from 160°
to 185° C., according to the cloudlessness of the day, were reached
in the ovens. Bread was baked and other cooking done daily with
great success. Indeed, as the ovens are well protected from loss of
heat, it was frequently possible to bake bread at night as well as by day.

Highly exact restandardization of the Smithsonian pyrheliometric
solar-radiation scale was effected. A paper describing these experi-
ments has been published. The study of long-wave solar radiation
did not reach definitive results. It proves necessary to redesign the
spectroscope for this purpose. However, a new test of the kamp-
ometer, a highly sensitive radiation measuring instrument, was made.
Very high sensibility was actually attained, and the prospect of 50-
fold further increase is entertained. The observations of the spectral
energy curves of the hotter stars were carried out on two nights with
the Mount Wilson Observatory roo-inch reflecting telescope, with
the cooperation of Dr. Joel Stebbins, who observed with his photo-
electric cell. Twenty stars were observed, some as faint as the fifth
magnitude, but the results proved disappointing and suggested a
modification of the method, which bids fair to be successful.
MINERALOGICAL INVESTIGATIONS IN MEXICO

By W. F. FOSHAG
Curator, Division of Mineralogy and Petrology, U. S. National Museum

During previous visits to Mexico I had studied most of the princi-
pal mineral deposits of the plateau region and collected much miner-
alogical material of interest. In the 1934 season’s work, it was planned
to visit some of the more outlying districts of northern Mexico and
some of the better known districts of the south. During part of the
season I was accompanied by Dr. Philip Krieger, of Columbia
University.

From Chihuahua City we started westward in a small truck toward
the Sierra Madre Mountains of Chihuahua. A stop was made at
Cusihuirachic, an important silver camp, and farther west we stopped
to investigate the fossil bone beds between Basuchil and Guerrero and
to visit the old zinc mines at La Calera.

From Guerrero we went up the Rio Papogochic, over a difficult
road seldom traveled by automobiles, and finally to the summit of the
continental divide of Mexico. We were now in a region of fine pine
forests and open meadows, the home of the Tarahumare Indian. The
prevailing rock over broad areas is a light-colored rhyolitic tuff, which
forms the walls of the valleys and canyons. At Las Cienegas, horses
and mules awaited us to take us to Maguarachic and the barrancas.
After we left Las Cienegas, the country became increasingly rugged,
the canyons deeper, and the scenery more inspiring. The Sierra
Madres are not so much a high mountain range as an elevated plateau
cut into an intricate pattern of deep and rugged canyons. Although not
so colorful as the Grand Canyon, being clothed in large part with
verdure, these canyons (barrancas) approach it in size and even ex-
ceed it in extent. In a few hours of riding, one passes from the pine
forests of the summits through the live-oak and cactus zones to the
river below, where tropical fruits abound. The andesites of the lower
slopes of the barrancas are the mother rock of the principal ore veins
of this district. The rich silver camp of Maguarachic is situated on
the flanks of a narrow barranca, and from the mine one can look down
into the main Barranca de Churu, 2,000 feet below. The Barranca de
Maguarachic cuts across a number of silver-bearing veins, exposing
them to view.
6 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Fic. 3—The Barranca de Churu, Sierra Madre Moun-
tains, Western Chihuahua. These deep canyons are char-
acteristic of this region.

Fic. 4.—The Barreales. Looking from flanks of the Sierra de Los Muertos,
across the mud plains to the Banco Lucero. Northern Chihuahua.
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1934

NI

Fic. 5.—Popocatepetl, Mexico’s famous volcanic peak. (Photograph by
T. Skewes Saunders. )

Fic. 6—Tasco. The first mining by Europeans in the Western Hemisphere
was carried on in the hill behind the tree to the right.
8 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

We next turned north to Namiquipa and Sabinal, where there are
other silver mines, and then north again, following the course of
the Rio Santa Maria. The country became increasingly more arid
and desolate until at last we reached the Barreales, a forbidding stretch
of country, very different in aspect from the pleasant barrancas we
had so recently left behind. Instead of deep canyons clad in pines
and live-oaks, we saw a flat sun-baked plain, almost devoid of vegeta-
tion, a country so level that no water drained from it. Here and there
rose from the plain small but rugged mountain ranges of tilted and
folded Cretaceous limestone, almost as verdureless as the plain itself.
Small intrusions of granitic rock into these limestones formed deposits
of gold, silver, and copper. Such a deposit in the Sierra de Los
Muertos engaged our attention because of the occurrence of great
quantities of garnet and vesuvianite.

In southern Mexico the first district visited was Pachuca, the
world’s largest and most productive silver district. There is little
about the town of Pachuca to suggest its preeminent standing as a
silver camp, for the mining works are hidden away among the hills,
back of the town; others are to be found across the crest of the range
at Real del Monte. Some of the most productive workings are entirely
concealed a thousand feet below fields of corn. A visit underground,
however, leaves little doubt that here are mines of importance. Miles
of adits and drifts lead in all directions, and along the main haulage-
ways continually pass long trains of heavy ore cars.

A short side trip from Pachuca takes one to El Chico, now less
known for its mines than for its beautiful scenery. From the road
along the range crest one looks down on the one side on mountain
slopes covered with a scant brush or maguey and to Pachuca at its
foot; on the other side are deep canyons covered with dense forests
of noble evergreens, open alpine glades with scattered hamlets and a
profusion of wild flowers. From the canyon walls, above the blanket
of forest, rise tall spires and huge rugged masses of volcanic rock.

Leaving Pachuca, | proceeded to Tasco, scene of the first mining
by Europeans in the Western Hemisphere. The mines are noted for
the richness of their ores and the huge bonanzas that have yielded in
years past. Near Tasco are the mercury mines of Huitzuco and
Huahuastla, interesting for the occurrences of rare mercury minerals.

After a short visit to the opal mines of Queretaro, and a brief
reconnaissance in the eastern part of the state, I returned to Mexico
City for the packing and shipping of the collection. Over a ton of
material was collected, including not only ores and minerals of scien-
tific importance, but many unusually fine exhibition specimens as well.
FOSSIL HUNTING IN SOUTHERN IDAHO
By C. LEWIS GAZIN

Assistant Curator, Division of Vertebrate Paleontology, U. S. National Musewn

Continuing the Smithsonian Institution program of fossil collect-
ing in the Snake River basin of Idaho, a party consisting of George F.
Sternberg, George B. Pearce, and myself met on May 28 at Bliss,
Idaho, and established camp at the old site, which had been occupied
by earlier expeditions under Dr. J. W. Gidley and N. H. Boss, across
the Snake River from Hagerman and near the Plesippus quarry. The
quarry was found to be in bad condition, owing to wind-blown sand
and the caving-in of the back wall, and a considerable amount of
overburden had to be removed in order to work the bone layer.
Harry Hall, a local prospector and experienced miner, was hired to
blast out a large section of the back wall, and Richard Clifford with
his team and fresno was employed to remove the debris from the
quarry. When the blasting was completed, we discovered that the
last shot had blown out an unexpected mastodon skull and jaws from
a level considerably above the horse bones. We retrieved most of the
larger fragments, and it is hoped that we may be able to piece some
of them together in the laboratory.

By the first of July the quarry was in such condition that picks,
shovels, and scraper were largely replaced by whisk brooms and awls.
The exposed surface of the fossil bed was in plan the shape of a
crescent about 55 feet between tips and about 18 feet from front to
back across the widest portion. The back wall rose from both ends
of the cut to a point somewhat over 50 feet higher than the middle
of the bone layer. The dump in front of the quarry extended some
50 or 60 feet out from the edge of the bone layer and represented the
accumulated debris of three seasons of quarrying in addition to the
material moved during the present season. The greater bulk of bone
material in the fossiliferous layer was sufficiently concentrated so
that it could be taken up in large blocks carefully bound in burlap and
plaster of paris. Although a few remains of other animals were found,
nearly all of the bones were from the extinct horse, Plesippus sho-
shonensis Gidley. Included in the skeletal material, some of which is
articulated, are about 65 skulls of this animal.
ie) SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Fic. 7—Quarry as it appeared after removing some of the overburden and
prior to taking up the fossil bones. (Photograph by G. F. Sternberg. )

Fic. 8—Removing large plaster-encased blocks of fossil horse bones from
the quarry. (Photograph by G. F. Sternberg.)
I]

EXPLORATIONS,

SMITHSONIAN

3 miles south of the Plesippus quarry.

N

Fic. 9.—Remains of three peccaries were taken from this small quarry about
12 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

To the south of the quarry along the west side of the Snake River
the fossil-bearing formation is well exposed, and considerable time
was spent by Pearce and myself, and by Elmer Cook, a local farmer
and enthusiastic collector, prospecting for new finds. On these steep,
sandy slopes were encountered remains of a variety of animals, most
of which were only meagerly represented in the main quarry. Among
the mammals now recognized in this fauna are a shrew, a small dog
about the size of a coyote, a cat nearly the size of a mountain lion, a
small sabre-tooth cat, a large otter and smaller otterlike mustelids,
beaver, musk-rat, pocket gopher, ground squirrel, rabbits, ground
sloth, mastodon, horse, two species of camel, peccary, an antilocaprid,
and deer. In addition to the mammals are a variety of birds, turtle,
snakes, frog, and fish.

Excellent material was obtained of several mammalian types hereto-
fore represented only by fragmentary specimens. Particular mention
may be made of the skeletal remains of three peccaries discovered by
Pearce, an adult and two young huddled together almost as in Iife.
Two of the skeletons, the adult and one of the immature specimens,
may be complete. These will form an interesting addition to the
exhibition hall. A short distance from the peccary quarry a mastodon
skull was located in a difficultly accessible place. The problem of
getting the specimen out of the quarry was met only by building a
wide, low-gradient trail some distance along the slope and dragging
the plaster encased block with a team to a point where it could be
reached by truck.

When collecting in the vicinity of Hagerman was concluded and
the 7-ton collection packed and shipped, Sternberg, Pearce, and |
traveled westward to a region of exposures near the Snake River in
Owyhee County. Our first stop was at the Bruneau River, and an
investigation was made of the deposits exposed in that valley and
in adjacent Little Valley. Except for remains of fossil fish, princi-
pally cyprinid, little material was observed in these areas. We then
moved on to the country west of Grand View and prospected at
various localities as far as Sinker Creek, with only meager results.
Fragmentary remains of land mammals were observed in beds exposed
along the lower portion of Sinker Creek and in sediments beneath the
capping rock of the more easterly of the Castle Buttes, but not in
sufficient abundance to warrant spending any considerable time. After

a week’s prospecting the field-work was terminated at Mountain
Home on August 23.
DEVONIAN STUDIES IN SOUTHWESTERN ONTARIO
AND MICHIGAN

By ALS) WARTEMN
Vassar College
AND
CyA EOOR EPR

Assistant Curator, Division of Stratigraphic Paleontology, U. S.
National Museum

The problem undertaken by the writers this past field-season was
the establishment of a correlation or agreement between the middle
Devonian (Hamilton) strata outcropping on the southeastern shore
of Lake Erie in New York, similar sediments in southeastern Ontario,
and the limestones and shales of Alpena and Presque Isle Counties in
northeastern Michigan. In planning the work it was decided to start
in southwestern Ontario because each writer already had a knowledge
of the New York section. The object then, was the recognition of
the strata of Lake Erie in Ontario, and then the identification of the
Ontario section in Michigan.

Such correlations as the ones accomplished by the writers are made
by studying the fossils occurring in a stratum and then finding an
identical or similar assemblage elsewhere. It is not always possible
to find identical species over wide areas because animals vary in dif-
ferent parts of a sea. Therefore assemblages approximating each
other in distant parts of the same sea may be taken as equivalent.

Two natural difficulties have always impeded stratigraphic work
in Ontario and Michigan. One of these is the lack of outcrops and
the other a perplexing lateral shift or change in the composition of
the sediments. Alpena County, Mich., and southwestern Ontario not
long ago were under the Pleistocene ice sheet, which laid over these
regions a generous cover of drift. This heavy drift cover combined
with a very low topography is responsible for the poor exposures.
In spite of these difficulties a nearly complete Devonian column was
constructed in Michigan. The labors of other geologists had already
established a good sequence in Ontario.

In Ontario the middle Devonian consists chiefly of soft shale con-
taining thin bands of limestone. About one-third of the thickness of
the section above the base there is a hard band of gray limestone
overlain by a coral bed 4 feet in thickness. These two bands contain
fossil assemblages which can be readily identified in New York, in

13
SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Fic. 10.—Hamilton fossils from Ontario and Michigan. 5, 7, Sg eanGse los
crinoids, Michigan; 10, 11, 14, 15, Eleutherocrinus, a rare blastoid, < 2, Ontario;
1, 2, 8, 9, brachiopods, Michigan; 6, peculiar snail, Ontario; 3 and 4, trilobite, < 2,
Michigan.

SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1934 15

Fic. 11.—Hamilton fossil from Michigan. Head of Prismatophyllum.
1 shows upper surface, 2 lower surtace.
16 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

the vicinity of East Bethany, not far southeast of Batavia. These
beds serve as a sure tie between the two regions.

In Michigan the proportion of limestone to shale greatly increases
over that in Ontario. Despite this lateral shift of lithology it is possi-
ble to recognize the coral bed of Ontario in the Michigan section.
Here the bed is considerably thicker than in Ontario, and there is a
greater predominance of colonial corals over solitary corals. How-
ever, the same coral types occur in both regions together with pecu-
liar kinds of other fossils characteristic of the coral bed in Ontario
and Michigan. By means of this correlation it was determined that
the Michigan section is approximately equivalent to the two middle
formations of the New York middle Devonian (Hamilton) group of
rocks.

On the basis of observations made during the summer it is possible
tentatively to reconstruct a little of the ancient geography of the
Devonian seas. It is thought that New York, Ontario, Michigan, and
the surrounding country were covered by a shallow sea. But in early
Hamilton time a land or shoal of considerable proportions was ele-
vated on the site of Lake Erie, Ohio, Indiana, and southern Michi-
gan. The coral plantations of the coral bed alluded to above fringed
this low land or shoal. In Michigan colonial corals of the genus
Prismatophyllum formed huge heads as much as 50 feet in height.
These were not connected to form a single reef but made innumerable
large mounds on the sea bottom. These reefs or “ bioherms””’ reflect
themselves in the topography about Alpena and along the Thunder
Bay River in small conical hills. On the margins of the coral masses
a variety of other creatures lived. Crinoids, or sea lilies, were particu-
larly abundant.

Ontario and Michigan are two of the finest collecting grounds in
this country. Glens and river banks or cliffs in southwestern Ontario
yield fine fossils. The soft blue shales or soapstones common in both
regions break down to a tenacious clay. From the clay free fossils
are washed out by each rain. At Rockport, in the northeastern corner
of Alpena County, and on the outskirts of the city of Alpena there
are huge limestone quarries. From these large quantities of clay have
been stripped and thrown over the surface of the ground near the
quarries. The clays have disintegrated and are now a never-ending
source of beautiful fossils. Crinoids and blastoids of large size and
beauty are present in exciting quantities. There is probably no known
Devonian locality more productive of fossil sea lilies. Many fine
specimens were collected during the season, and many of the species
are new to science.
HANCOCK GALAPAGOS EXPEDITION, 1934
By Wie) Ori SC EUViTana:

Curator, Division of Marine Invertebrates, U. S. National Musean

During the early part of 1934 it was my good fortune again to ac-
company Capt. G. Allan Hancock’s expedition on the Cruiser Velero
III to the Galapagos Islands and the adjacent coast of South America.
This, my second trip in successive years with Captain Hancock to
these islands, was even more enjoyable and more successful scientifi-
cally than the first one. I left Washington on December 24, 1933, and
on December 30 we sailed from San Pedro, Calif. This year the
scientific staff was augmented by the presence of Dr. C. McLean
Fraser, University of British Columbia, interested in hydroids; Dr.
Wm. Randolph Taylor, University of Michigan, who collected algae ;
and Dr. Harold W. Manter, University of Nebraska, who studied
the trematode parasites of fish.

During the cruise of 1933 chief emphasis was laid on shore collect-
ing and the intertidal zone. This year dredging was given first place
in our scheme of invertebrate studies, not only to supplement the col-
lections of last year, but also to carry our investigation of the crus-
tacean fauna down to depths intermediate between the shore and the
edge of the continental shelf, more or less arbitrarily set at the 10o-
fathom line, and to provide at the same time hydroids for Dr. Fraser
and algae for Dr. Taylor.

Iextended dredging operations produced even richer collections than
were obtained last year. This was made possible by the new and addi-
tional equipment designed by W. Charles Swett, executive officer on
board, and provided by Captain Hancock for the use of the scientific
staff of the expedition. One of the ship’s two 24-foot motor whale-
boats had been converted into a dredge boat by the installation for-
ward of a specially built dredging winch carrying over 300 fathoms
of steel cable, and aft of a stout platform with shear legs for landing
the dredge net and contents for convenient sorting.

Thus we were enabled to explore depths unattainable the previous
year and make profitable return trips to localities where shallow water
collecting had been done on the preceding cruise. One hundred and
six dredging stations were occupied in the course of the expedition.

The cruise carried through an ambitious program. Our first col-
lecting was done in Braithwaite Bay, Socorro Island. A day was spent

17
18 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Fic. 12.—Point Christopher, Albemarle Island. The scenery is of such barren,
volcanic nature that we immediately named it ‘* The Valley of the Moon.”

Fig. 13.—Marine iguanas, Albemarle Island. (Photograph by
C. McLean Fraser.)

Fic. 14.—Pinnacle rock, Sulivan Bay, James Island. Here is some of the
most beautiful scenery to be found in all the islands. (Photograph by H. W.
Manter. )
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, I 934 19

Fic. 15.—A baby tortoise is posed on the back of a veteran.
(Photograph by C. McLean Fraser.)

Fic. 16.—Dredge boat at work. (Photograph by H. W. Manter.)
20 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

at Clarion Island and the end of the Revillagigedo group, where the
new dredging equipment proved most successful. Dredging was at-
tempted at Clipperton Island, but was abandoned because of rough
weather and unfavorable bottom. The weather also prevented our
landing on this lonely, low-lying, atoll.

January 11, 1934, found us at Wenman Island, our first stop in
the Galapagos. This island, the second most northerly of the group,
is a veritable bird refuge, being densely populated with nesting boobies
and frigate birds. It had not heretofore been visited by Captain
Hancock.

Several days were spent on Charles Island, the home of three groups
of so-called “ nature lovers,” who have gone there to escape the con-
ventions of civilization. They were prospering in their several ways.
Their gardens were in better shape and more productive than they
had been previously, and their homes were much improved. Though
healthy and in good spirits, they appeared, however, to have aged a
half dozen years in the one year since our last visit. Collecting at
Charles Island was better than the year before, tides being more
favorable and dredging equipment better. The best algal collections
were made here, and our first porpoise was captured in Post Office Bay.

At Academy Bay, Indefatigable Island, | obtained two small living
tortoises, as well as shells and skins of two just hatched the week
before our arrival. One of the two living specimens is one of the only
two so far known whose exact hatching date is known. The second
one is the property of Captain Hancock. Both animals are prospering
at this date (December 1934) and have about trebled their original
weight.

Amoebic dysentery was found raging in the colony on Chatham
Island, and therefore we remained only long enough to make a few
dredge hauls. Sulivan Bay, on the east side of James Island, proved
to be the most picturesque and most strikingly colored bit of volcanic
scenery of all the anchorages we made in the course of 2 years.

Both dredging and shore collecting were good at Hood Island, and
by stopping there we were able to make one of the major discoveries
of the expedition. We found that the Hood Island tortoises are
apparently reestablishing themselves on that island. Since 1853 but
five specimens have been taken there—three by the California Academy
of Sciences expedition in 1905 and 1906, and two by the Pinchot
expedition in 1929. Captain Hancock was able to obtain over a dozen
specimens from some Chatham Island natives he found encamped on
the beach. These men reported that the tortoises were rather plentiful
but poorly nourished. The Hood Island tortoises have, since the days
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1934 21

of Pacific whaling, been considered very rare, and it is encouraging
to know that their numbers may now be definitely on the increase.
Two of the specimens taken by Captain Hancock have been presented
to the National Zoological Park.

On the way from Hood Island to Guayaquil, Ecuador, stops were
made every 100 miles for the purpose of taking water samples and
serial temperatures in order to complete a section of the Humboldt
current in this vicinity.

Fic. 17—Only perfect specimen known of the rare porpoise, Prodelphinus
graffmant Lonnberg, Gorgona Island, Colombia. (Photograph by W. Chas.
Swett. )

For three days we were anchored in the Guayas River, off Guayaquil,
after which we worked northward toward Panama, making stops at
La Libertad, Punta Santa Elena, and San Francisco Bay, Ecuador ;
and at Gorgona Island, Cabita Bay, and Port Utria, Colombia. A
particularly fine collection of hydroids was made at La Libertad ;
two bats and a second porpoise were taken at Gorgona Island.

February 16 to 19 was spent at Balboa, Panama, where members
of the party visited the local orchid gardens maintained by the
Missouri Botanical Gardens, Dr. Zetek, and the Barro Colorado
Laboratory.

Leaving Panama, we stopped at Jicaron Island and Bahia Honda,
Panama; Port Culebra, Costa Rica; Tangola-Tangola, White Friars
22 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Island; Petatlan Bay, Tenacatita, Isabel Islands; a great bird rock
and scene of operations of a considerable shark fishery conducted by
a number of natives from Teacapan on the mainland, Santa Maria
Bay, Thurloe Point, and Cerros Island, Mexico.

March 12 and 13 were spent in San Diego, Calif., where I visited
the Zoological Park and Scripps Institution of Oceanography.

As Dr. Mary J. Rathbun, Associate of the Smithsonian Institution,
has in advanced state of completion a comprehensive monograph of
the Oxystome and allied crabs of America, special attention was
given this year to obtaining representatives of these forms, while not
neglecting the collection of the other groups of crustacea, in order
that her account of these crabs might be as complete as possible for
the Galapagos and the west coast of America. That the Hancock
expeditions have once again rendered signal service to science has
been most emphatically demonstrated by the preliminary survey which
Miss Rathbun has made of the Oxystome crab material turned over
to her by Captain Hancock for study. Nine new species have been
discovered in the collection, among them the first examples of the
genus /liacantha to be taken from the Pacific shores of America, a
genus heretofore known only from the Atlantic and there represented
by five species.

The porpoises collected represent two species recently described
from very imperfect and incomplete specimens. Those taken by us
are the only complete specimens extant.

Among the snakes obtained by the expedition were to living speci-
mens of sea snakes, Pelamydrus platurus (Linnaeus), from off the
coast of Colombia, exceedingly poisonous, exclusively marine forms
that prey upon small fish. Their color pattern is a striking one, broad
longitudinal bands for the most part of brilliant orange or yellow, and
intense black, broken up on the tip of the tail into a sharply defined
mottling of these same colors. On Clarion Island, Mexico, a speci-
men of Coluber anthonyi Stejneger, not common in museum collec-
tions, was obtained.

With the docking of the Velero III at San Pedro was ended another
successful cruise to the Galapagos Islands. To Captain Hancock and
his associate, Mr. Swett, must go the gratitude of the scientific staff
for the opportunity afforded of accompanying the expedition, and for
the invaluable equipment provided which made possible the note-
worthy collections brought together from the region explored.
EXPLORATIONS OF REV. DAVID C. GRAHAM IN
SZECHWAN, CHINA

By HERBERT FRIEDMANN

Curator, Division of Birds, U. S. National Museum

The Reverend David C. Graham has continued his zoological col-
lecting in Szechwan as time and opportunity permitted, and made one
important journey solely in this connection. For the following brief
account of this trip and of some of the resulting collections, I have
been guided by Dr. Graham’s diary covering the period in question.

Leaving his home at Chengtu on July 16, 1933, he proceeded north-
westward along the Min River to its junction with the To at Weichow.
There he followed the To westward as far as Ka Gu, where he struck
off away from the To valley into the highlands of Mu-Sang-Tsai, to
Bu-Lan-Tsen and to a little beyond O-Er. To the northwest of O-Er,
Graham collected at altitudes ef as much as 15,300 feet, much higher
than he had ever done previously. From this camp he retraced his
steps to Bu-Lan-Tsen and Mu-San-Tsai, thence to the To River at
Dung-Men-Wai. Here he turned westward and followed the river
as far as Tsa-Gu-Law, arriving there on August 21. The collecting
proving disappointing, and his time drawing to a close, Graham
turned eastward the next morning and retraced his steps along the
valley of the To to Weichow, and thence along the Min River to
Chengtu, where he arrived on September 1. A few extracts from his
diary may serve to present glimpses of the trip.

The second day out from Chengtu he ran into that great curse to
travelers in western China—the intermittent and rather formless civil
warfare. The road he was traversing followed the north bank of the
Min. “ The 24th Army occupies the south bank. They fired three
times at us near the city, and twice about 5 miles above the city. I
left by the west gate and ran the gauntlet first and got clear past
before the firing began. None of us was injured.”

After leaving the valley of the To, the roads became increasingly
worse and in some places were more theoretical than real. The diffi-
culties of travel were lightened by an amusing, though, at the time,
probably annoying, incident with a mule, which may be quoted in
Graham’s own laconic, matter-of-fact language.

““T was to ride a 20-year-old mule, .. . . After I had ridden a
short distance I got off and invited the collector, Mr. Pen, to ride
awhile. He got on.

24. SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Fic. 18.—The modernized streets of Suifu, Szechwan, China. (Photograph by
D. C. Graham. )

Fic. 19.—A U-shaped valley, an old glacial bed, near Tatsienlu, Szechwan,
China. (Photograph by D. C. Graham.)
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, I 934 2

cn

Fic. 20.—The Ningyuen Road, on a high mountain where there is constant
danger from Lolos, Szechwan, China. (Photograph by D. C. Graham.)

Fic. 21.—View on the China-Tibetan border. (Photograph by D. C. Graham. )
26 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

“ Now, that old mule has always been led by a coolie when it was
ridden. But Mr. Pen naturally decided that a coolie to lead was un-
necessary, and dismissed temporarily the coolie. Very soon the mule
started off on a gallop for Kuanshien, and Mr. Pen couldn’t control
him. He ran a long way before he was stopped. Then Mr. Pen
refused to ride any more, and the mule refused to be led by the
coolie. Meanwhile, I had gone on quite a distance. Mr. Pen decided
that the mule hadn’t eaten enough grass that morning, and told the
coolie to let the mule eat grass awhile, and that after he had eaten
plenty he would no doubt be more easily led. Then he went on and
left the coolie alone with the mule. The coolie did not catch up with
the mule until dinner time.”

On another occasion the party experienced a severe earthquake
lasting about 4 minutes, but escaped without injury or loss.

Dr. Graham has described some of his experiences in the highlands
at O-Er in a manuscript report sent to the Smithsonian Institution,
part of which is quoted here.

“On August 8 [1933] I left the collectors at O-Er and joined
Mr. Torrance at Dong-Men-Wai. Together we went to Gieu-Tsi-T’en,
a Chiang village which is the home of the hereditary Ch’iang chief-
tain Yang Shioh Bi. We were entertained in the home of the chief-
tain; on the second night the people performed a folk dance which
was very interesting. Men and women did not dance in pairs. Men
danced in unison, singing as they danced. Then the women repeated
the same words and danced in the same way. Near the end the per-
formers showed their good will by making up songs that were compli-
mentary to the foreign guests. One of the verses ran thus: ‘ Mr.
Graham has endured great hardship in coming to this place. When
he returns home, may he become wealthy.’

“On August 12 I returned to O-Er, and the next day started on a
hunting trip to the high mountains. I hoped to bag some big game.
On the first day we passed far beyond the last human habitation, over
a road that was so bad that we often had to get down and crawl on
our hands and knees in order to travel at all. The next day the road
was even worse, but in the afternoon we reached our destination and
pitched our tents at the elevation of 12,500 feet. All around us were
mountains reaching the altitude of 17,000 feet. The mountainsides
were covered with dense forests, or with stretches of wild grass and
flowers. Patches of snow could be seen. On the next day, with two
Cl’iang guides, I climbed up the mountain to a cave whose elevation
is 14,100 feet. We slept in this cave that night, with a fire in its
mouth to keep us warm. Next morning we rose early and climbed to
TIONS, 1934

XPLORA

1D;

SMITHSONIAN

(weyeiny “) ‘q Aq ydersojoyg) “eulyy
UBMYDIZS ‘ORIYD) SUI NYT puke OL VT UssMjoq UI UeNnz
19,7 94} JO doz 9y} Avau ‘YyNOSs SuTyOO] ‘Mal A—EZ “OY

‘JV -q Aq ydessojoyg )
sojiul OZ yNoqe ADANY

(cureyein
‘eUIYD ‘URMYDAZS ‘HyING saoqe
DTN 2 Oe Saco Shel

28 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

the altitude of 15,300 feet. There were plenty of tracks of wild ani-
mals, but hunters had recently been there, and no wild animals were
to be seen. However, I secured some rare butterflies, flies, and bees
at an altitude of 15,200 feet. During the next few days our food
supply became very low, and we kept from the state of semistarvation
by eating wild celery, three kinds of wild onions, wild cherries, wild
strawberries, and wild pheasants.

“ Near our camp was the smallest glacier, and the lowest in alti-
tude, that I have heard of in West China. Although the snow never
melts away, its length is only a few hundred feet, and its altitude is
13,500 feet above sea level.

‘On the morning of August 17 I returned to O-Er, and that after-
noon joined some natives in a bear hunt. A big black bear was ravag-
ing the corn crops at night and hiding in a nearby forest during the
day. A party of hunters surrounded the forest, and a few of their
number went through the forest throwing great stones and shouting
very loudly. They succeeded in driving the bear to within 300 yards
of the place where I was waiting. My first shot missed, but the second
went clear through his head, and the big beast rolled down the moun-
tainside like a great black ball. It took four men to carry him on
level ground, and six or eight to carry him up the mountain to our
camp.”

The most important results of the expedition are the large mam-
mals collected. Many of them, such as the giant panda (Ailuropus
melanoleucus), the golden-haired monkey (Jthinopithecus roxel-
lanae), the blue sheep (Pseudois nayaur szechuenensis), the takin
(Budorcas tibetana), the Chinese red wolf (Cuon rutilans), and the
horse-tailed deer (Rusa unicolor dejeant) are extremely rare in col-
lections and very difficult to obtain, as they live in inaccessible spots.
Most of them were obtained by Li Song Ting, an aboriginal Wa Si
collector. A very scarce wildcat (Felis temminckti dejeani) was
among the prizes of the collection.

Fewer birds were obtained than in previous years, but those that
were collected are of great interest. A peculiar genus of babbling
thrush (Cholornis), hitherto unrepresented in the national collections,
was obtained. This bird is remarkable for the rudimentary condi-
tion of the inner toe, being almost a three-toed, instead of a four-toed,
bird. A little-known woodpecker was also obtained. Insects and other
groups of animals were assiduously collected as in previous years
ZOOLOGICAL COLLECTING IN SIAM

By HUGH M. SMITH
Adviser and Expert in Fisheries to His Siamese Majesty's Government, and
Associate in Zoology, U. S. National Musewm

At the beginning of 1934 collecting was in progress in the exten-
sive mountain area known as Kao Soi Dao, in the district of Trang,
Peninsular Siam, where during the years 1896, 1897, and 1899
Dr. W. L. Abbott had made large collections for the National
Museum. Among the birds obtained was a rare screech owl (Otus
sagittatus), apparently new to Siam, originally described from Malacca
in 1848 and not previously represented in the Museum.

In February the headwaters of the Pasak River were visited for
the first time, and numerous specimens of birds, fishes, and other
animals were obtained, including a purple finch (Carpodacus murati)
new to Siam. Fans made from the wings and tails of peacock pheas-
ants were obtained from native hunters, but none of the birds were
met with. The upper Pasak valley is a very wild region abounding in
big game and well worthy of the protracted attention of zoologists.
In the mountain jungles lying to the north and west of the headwaters
there roam a few remnants of the most retiring and least known of
the primitive tribes of Siam, the Ka Tong Luang, or Savages of the
Yellow Leaf, so called by the Siamese in allusion to their crude
shelters of leafy boughs which are abandoned as soon as the leaves
turn yellow. These people are very shy and seldom seen, but some-
times they barter with the Laos, without, however, showing them-
selves, depositing honey, skins, and other jungle produce at certain
spots in the forest and receiving salt, tobacco, and iron in exchange.

In March a small collection of birds and mammals was obtained
along the east branch of the Meklong, in central Siam; and in April,
May, and June the Pakjong district of eastern Siam and the Sriracha
section of southeastern Siam were revisited.

A rugged mountainous district lying northeast of Chiengmai in
northern Siam, which had yielded interesting zoological material in
previous years, was again the scene of collecting activities during
August and September ; the special peaks where camps were pitched
were Doi Phra Chao and Doi Hua Mot, the last reaching a height of
nearly 6,000 feet. Noteworthy birds obtained were a gray bulbul

29
30 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Fic. 24—Lawa women, North Siam. The Lawa belong to the Mon-Khmer
stock, live in isolated mountain villages, and from early times have been
smelters of iron. These women had never confronted a camera.

Fic, 25.—Collective fishing by women in a canal in Central Siam. Interesting
fishes and crustaceans are often obtained from such a source.
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1934 31

Fic. 26.—Characteristic water-buffalo cart, Southeastern Siam. This kind
of vehicle proved very useful in transporting collecting outfit and camp
equipment.

Fic. 27.—Sawfish (Pristis) from Southeastern Siam. This species reaches
a large size and is frequently entangled in the fishermen’s nets.
32 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION
(Cerasophila thompsoni), previously represented in the museum col-
lection by a single specimen taken several years before in the same
region; a warbler (Abroscopus albogularis), the second record for
Siam, the first having come from the same mountain in a previous
year ; and two examples of a grosbeak (Mycerobas melanoxanthus),
heretofore known from Siam from a single specimen. Among the
mammals collected were a Tibetan bear, a species which many people
regard as the most dangerous of the jungle mammals of Siam, and
a binturong, a large aberrant cat with a prehensile tail.

A large series of fresh-water and marine fishes, assembled by the
writer, was presented to the National Museum by the Siamese Depart-
ment of Fisheries. This collection includes genera and species not
previously represented in the Museum, and serves to show the great
variety attained in Siam by the catfishes, carps, gobies, and other
families. The collection illustrates also the peculiar structural and
functional adaptations which many of the fresh-water fishes have
acquired in order to meet adverse physical conditions; prominent
among these adaptations are the incubation of eggs in the mouth of
the male parent and the breathing of atmospheric air.

Zoological collecting for the Museum, which had been going on
continuously since 1923, was brought to a close in October 1934.
PE SUE REIS OF VIRGINTA
BYU SIN GLARE

Curator, Division of Echinoderms, U. S. National Musewmn

Tidewater Virginia, with its historical associations, a northern con-
tinuation of the great southern coastal plain, the piedmont section,
the beautiful Blue Ridge, the Shenandoah Valley, and farther west
the Allegheny Mountains, all combine to make Virginia one of the
most interesting, as well as one of the most beautiful of all our States.
The unusual diversification of its terrain is reflected in an exceptional
diversification of its plants and animals that is well brought out by a
study of its native butterflies. Many southern butterflies range north
along the coastal plain, and northern types go southward in the moun-
tain districts.

Our knowledge of Virginian butterflies, however, is very 1ncom-
plete, and is derived from many widely scattered sources. Butterflies
from Virginia are mentioned in about 80 different books and articles.
The common yellow swallowtail was figured as long ago as 1634, and
between 1770 and 1836 many records from the State were published.
The number of species recorded from the State, including my per-
sonal notes, is 118. My notes include mention of 93, of which 6 are
not otherwise recorded. Of the 118, 11 are erroneously recorded,
leaving a total of 107 species definitely known to live in Virginia.
But some of these as yet are unrecorded.

In the course of a detailed survey of the butterflies of Virginia, I
have visited 54 of the 100 counties and noted the conditions in them.
At the end of July Mrs. Clark and I spent a week on Apple Orchard
Mountain, in Bedford County, where we obtained representatives of

2 of the local species. Among these were some specimens of the
large and handsome Argynnis diana, the largest and finest of all the
fritillaries. Mrs. Clark found that the males of this butterfly have
an unusually strong odor resembling that of wild roses, though it is
slightly more spicy. We also captured Polygonia progne, which is
common at higher altitudes in the mountains.

We had hoped to find here the “ white admiral” (Basilarchia
arthemis albofasciata), but in this we were unsuccessful. The National
Museum possesses a fine pair of this form captured by the late Col.
Wirt Robinson in nearby Nelson County, a magnificent female (fig.
29) taken on July 28, 1919, and a smaller male without date.

33
34 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Fic. 28—Enodia portlandia, 2, Virginia Beach, Va., September 24, 1934.

Left, upper surface ; right, under surface.

Fic. 20.—Basilarchia arthemis albofasciata, 2, Nelson County,
Va., Col. Wirt Robinson, July 28, 1910.
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1934 35

Fic. 30—Charis virginiensis, 3, Virginia Beach, Va., September 24, 1034.
Left, upper surface; right, under surface. > 15.

Fic. 31.—Strymon ontario ontario, d, Meramec State Park, Mo., Harold I.
O’Byrne, June 2, 1933. Left, upper surface; right, under surface. 14. One
of the rarest and least known of our eastern butterflies. There is one record
from Virginia.
36 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

September 23 and 24 we spent in Princess Anne County, hoping
there to rediscover some of the species recorded by Pieter Cramer in
1779 and 1782, by Godart in 1819, and by Boisduval and Le Conte in
1829-1833. Our list from Princess Anne County numbers 31 species.
We succeeded in securing a single Catopsilia eubule var. sennae, and
good series of Charis virginiensis, Cercyonis alope pegala, Neonympha
gemma, and N. sosybius, together with about 30 specimens of Enodia
portlandia (fig. 28).

One of the most interesting, as well as one of the rarest, of the
butterflies found in Virginia is an inconspicuous little skipper (Pyrqus
centaureae) of which the National Museum possesses a specimen, in
the Barnes collection, taken at Blacksburg, Montgomery County, on
April 19, 1900. This little butterfly is found in the mountains of
Scandinavia, in the Altai Mountains, in Labrador, Quebec, and
Ontario, and at more or less high altitudes from northern British
Columbia southward to the high peaks of Colorado. It is also found,
in small numbers, from scuthern New York southward to North
Carolina.

Some Virginian butterflies, as the common little blue (Lycaenopsis
argiolus pseudargiolus) and the yellow swallowtail (Papilio glaucus)
appear in early spring in a form almost or even quite identical with
that found in Alaska and in the far north generally, though later in
the year they are quite different.

Two of the commonest of the local butterflies have appeared only
in relatively recent years. One of these, the cabbage butterfly (Pieris
rapae) was introduced from Europe. The other, the orange clover
butterfly (Colias eurytheme), is an intruder from the West that now
appears to be thoroughly established.

Another very different kind, the curious long-snouted butterfly
(Libyihea bachmanit), is sometimes very common locally, and some-
times rare or absent. It seems to be an erratic, though a frequent,
visitor from the southwest.

One of the most conspicuous and energetic of Virginia’s butterflies
(Catopsilia eubule) is found in spring mainly or exclusively in the
lower regions near the sea, but during the summer it extends its range
over a large portion of the State. In the late summer it is seen in
some localities always to fly in a definite direction, though in others
it simply wanders about irregularly.

Another conspicuous and abundant kind, the common milkweed
butterfly (Danais plexippus), also in some regions flies always in a
definite direction, at least at certain seasons, though in other regions
it seems to wander aimlessly.
COMEECTING (GRASSES, IN NORTHEASTERN BRAZIL
3y JASON R. SWALLEN

Section of Grasses, U. S. National Museum

In South America there are many regions whose floras are very
inadequately known in spite of numerous expeditions which have been
sent out to make collections. This is partly due to the tremendous
areas to be covered and partly to the difficulties encountered and the
time required to reach the more inaccessible places. One of the
least known is that of northeastern Brazil, including the states of
Maranhao, Piauhy, Ceara, and Rio Grande do Norte. For the pur-
pose of studying and collecting the grasses, the author spent nearly
6 months in 1934 traveling across this territory, from the Tocantins
River to Natal.

With the exception of Maranhao and a few mountainous places in
Ceara, the region is subject to severe periodic droughts, sometimes
lasting for several years. During these times the people flock to the
larger towns as the water and their meager food supplies are ex-
hausted. But as soon as the rains come again they scatter back to
their homes, hoping for a better year. Fortunately there was plenty
of rain this year, so that the vegetation was in an ideal condition for
collecting.

Starting from Sao Luis, Maranhao, about the middle of February,
I proceeded by train as far as Caxias. This town is a shipping point
for large quantities of cotton, one of the principal agricultural prod-
ucts of the state, and the site of several textile factories. A line drawn
across the state at this point roughly divides it into two distinct parts
as far as the vegetation is concerned. The northern part is largely
forest, resembling the Amazon jungle, and the southern part is
“ sertao.” This term is used by the inhabitants to indicate the dry
lands of the interior usually characterized by a rather sparse growth
of low scrubby trees with a ground cover composed primarily of
grasses but with some sedges and a variety of small flowering plants
as well. It includes also the extensive nearly treeless grasslands.

A few years ago automobile roads were constructed along a number
of the chief routes of travel. However, owing to lack of use, many
of them have gradually been covered by the encroaching vegetation.
It was necessary, then, to arrange nearly all transportation by mule,

37
INSTITUTION

SMITHSONIAN

“IBM

YUM pateAoo A[IeaU ST pUNOSIIOZ 9Y} UI YORaq ay}

apn yay Vv

‘soroys AYyIOL jo [eordA} uol}eJI50A

jieMp pue wyed po9Avaj-uef} uoW0D eB SsUIMOYS

‘pied

‘O.1TaDSOT

ye MIA pues y—

e€

“O1q

‘So_PURD SUIYRUI UT pasn SI sdARo
94} Woy poureyqo xeAA “durems be JO 19}eM 9Y} UT
peyapet A[ureld oie AY} JDL ‘[IZeig Utojseoyjyi0U
ul s9oPjd JoM 10 4sTOUI Ut UOUTUIOD aie sued assay],
“BABIZ) UTIYIOU UT Sued XBM UPRTIZeIq—ze “DIY

SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1934 39

Fic. 34.—Mountains of bare rock, common in central Ceara near Quixada.
It is in this region that long droughts occur periodically.

Fic. 35.-—Assahy palms along one of the waterways on Maraio Island, Para.
At the source of these rivers are extensive wet savannas which are frequently
entirely covered with water during the rainy season.
40 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

as it was seldom that any other kind was available. Although rather
slow, this method made critical collecting much easier than would
have been possible by any faster means.

The route followed was westward from Caxias to Porto Franco
on the Tocantins River by way of Barra do Corda and Grajaht. The
next stage, to Carolina, was made by a large motor boat that makes
regular trips from Carolina to Alcobaca, the end of the rapids. From
Carolina I recrossed the state of Maranhao, going through Riachao
and San Antonio de Balsas. This part of the trip was by far the
most profitable because the trail passed through extensive grasslands
which contained many new or previously little-known species.

The shortest way to Ceara was to go down the Balsas and Parahyba
Rivers to Floriano, Piauhy, and thence overland to Crato, Ceara. I
wanted to make this journey as quickly as possible in order to have
plenty of time to collect in Ceara before the end of the rainy season.

As Ceara is in one of the geologically oldest regions of South
America, one would expect to find more species than in one of more
recent origin. This is not the case, however. The grasses are com-
paratively few in number of species and these are found rather com-
monly throughout the state. Annuals predominate, owing probably
to the long periods of drought, which make it impossible for any
except the most hardy species to survive.

After a month in Ceara, 2 weeks was spent in Rio Grande do
Norte. Cotton is grown here in large quantities in the lowlands along
the rivers. Aside from these bottom lands, the soil is sterile and
rocky and unfit for agriculture. Along the east coast are large sand
hills, the flora of which differs considerably from that of the rest
of the state.

A number of species which have been collected on the lower Amazon
are still known by only a single collection, sometimes represented in
the herbarium by only a fragment from the type specimen. For sev-
eral weeks in January and again in June and July I collected in this
area in an attempt to obtain additional material of some of these
species. Localities visited included Para, Mount Alegre, Santarem,
Obidos, and Fordlandia or Boa Vista on the Tapajos River.

During the entire trip about 8,000 specimens were obtained.
ARCHEOLOGICAL FIELD-WORK IN CHINA

By Ge We BISHOP
Associate Curator, Freer Gallery of Art

The present article is a brief outline of the work done by the Freer
Gallery Field Expedition to China during the period January 1930
to March 1934, when it returned to the United States.

Upon arrival in Peiping (Peking), I devoted considerable time
to a study of the work done by the Chinese portion of the field staff
during the previous year, when, in conjunction with the Academia
Sinica, a Chinese Government institution, they began the excavation
of a Shang Dynasty site (late second millennium B.C.) in Honan
province. Later in the spring of 1930 I participated, at the invitation
of the University of Nanking, in the excavation of certain tombs
near Nanking, of the sixth century A. D. Although plundered long
ago, these yielded, before the rainy season put a stop to our work,
not a little information of interest, particularly in regard to ancient
Chinese tomb construction.

During the summer of the same year I visited certain Japanese
museums, and, in company with A. G. Wenley, of the Freer Gallery
staff, inspected work by Japanese archeologists in extreme northern
Korea, near the Siberian border.

lor several years past my attention had been increasingly drawn
to the archeological significance of southwestern Shansi province—
an important center of population from very remote times, owing in
part, apparently, te the presence of large salt deposits. In the autumn
of 1930, therefore, in association with the Shansi Provincial Library,’
we undertook the excavation of a site of the West Han period (206
B. C—8 A. D.) in that region. This work has already been described,’
and we need only note here that in its course attention was drawn to
the vast quantities of Late Stone Age remains in the surrounding
country. I therefore decided to try to find and excavate a village site
of that cultural horizon.

* According to the present Chinese law, no non-Chinese scientific body may
conduct researches in China except in association with some Chinese institution.

*Excavation of a West Han Site at Yen-tztt Ko-ta, Southwestern Shansi
Province. Shanghai, 1932.

41
42 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Fic. 36.—View of a modern Chinese cave village. The dwellings are dug in the
face of loess bluffs.

Fic. 37.—Prehistoric Chinese pit-dwellings after clearing out.
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1934 43

A small portion of our finds on display at the Shansi
Provincial Library.

Fic. 39.
44 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

By agreement with the Shansi Provincial Library and the now de-
funct Peiping Women’s Normal College, in spite of the prevalence
of banditry in the area, work was started. It was placed under the
immediate charge of K. Z. Tung, of the Freer Gallery’s field staff
since 1922, and to his tact, good management, and courage its success
is in large measure due.

By great good fortune, a large prehistoric village site was located
almost at once, near the foot of an isolated hilly massif known as
the Ku Shan, or “ Lone Mountain.” Excavations were conducted
here during the two following seasons, and we were able to learn
much of interest regarding the Chinese of the Late Stone Age, per-
haps 4,000 years ago. A careful archeological reconnaissance was also
carried out covering nearly the entire province of Shansi and embrac-
ing an area of over 500 miles in length by nearly 200 1n breadth.

A full report of our work will appear in due course; but mean-
while a brief account of our discoveries may not be out of place here.

A question often asked 1s, Whence came the Chinese people? We
now know that they have occupied northern China for many thousands
of years. The prehistoric race whose relics we uncovered was, as its
skeletal remains prove, in the main that which occupies the country
today.

Save for the “ Lone Mountain ”’ itself, the region where we worked
is one of rolling cultivated plains composed of fertile loess soil. Our
village site lay just at the northeastern base of the hill, well above
the reach of floods. It was composed not of huts, but of beehive-
shaped pit dwellings, long since completely filled in and covered
over by wash from the higher levels. These pits were circular in
plan and averaged about 10 feet in depth, with plastered walls.
Entrance was at the top. The modern people excavate their dwellings
in the face of loess bluffs, sometimes in two or more tiers, with their
entrances at the front.

Our prehistoric Chinese were not nomads wandering about with
their flocks and herds. On the contrary, they were sedentary planters
depending for food upon what they grew. Their only domestic ani-
mals were the dog and the pig, and their chief crop appears to have
been millet ; wheat and rice seem not to have been known. Their fields
they cultivated with stone hoes, and they ground their grain on stone
slabs.

They knew some textile plant, probably hemp; and spindle-whorls
of clay or stone show that they spun thread. Impressions on pottery
indicate that they wove cloth, and they seem also to have made bark
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1934 4

cn

cloth. In cold weather they undoubtedly wore skins and furs. Mats
and baskets were likewise woven.

Among the materials used in the manufacture of implements were
stone, bone, deer antler, shell, and no doubt wood. Numerous stone
adzes and a few axes were found, together with stone knives rectangu-
lar or semilunar in shape and often perforated. That the bow was
used is indicated by the finding of arrow-points of stone, bone, and

ree g
3 ths
Paid

~

Fic. 40.—Example of prehistoric Chinese painted pottery.
In Freer Gallery of Art.

even shell. Among other objects were bone awls and hairpins and
multitudes of rings of all sizes, of stone, clay, bone, and shell. Lumps
of cinnabar, perhaps for painting the face or person, likewise occurred.

Immense quantities of potsherds were unearthed, but very few
complete vessels. The Late Stone Age pottery of China falls into two
main classes. Of these, by far the larger and more widely distributed
consists of a coarse handmade ware, usually gray in color and decor-
ated with impressed, incised, or applied ornamentation. It was manu-
factured by the “ coiling process,” still in use in parts of China. Ves-
sels were made in a great variety of shapes and sizes.
46 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

The other class of pottery was far finer in all respects. It was
“turned ’’ on some sort of potter’s wheel, and is buff to red-brown in
color, with a surface susceptible of taking a high burnish. It is fre-
quently decorated with geometric designs painted on in black, red,
and white; often a white slip is used. The occurrence of this type
of ware in China has only been known for about a dozen years.’ It
has now been found all the way from Chinese Turkistan across to
southern Manchuria. It appears only toward the very end of the
Chinese Late Stone Age, and its remains occur mainly along the line
of what were in historical times the great trade routes.

In addition to the pottery, other objects of earthenware found on
our site were whistles, still capable of being blown; kilns for firing
the pottery ; and clay cooking stoves nearly identical with those used
today by the local people.

Naturally, little can be said regarding the religion of these pre-
historic Chinese, although it was pretty surely based on the idea of
the promotion of fertility in general. Some of the objects found can
most plausibly be interpreted as serving some ritual purpose. And in
clearing out one dwelling pit there were unearthed quantities of human
bones, broken, disarticulated, and thrown in helter-skelter; these,
together with similar finds at other sites, suggest that the Neolithic
Chinese practiced human sacrifice and possibly ritual cannibalism.

It would be premature to assign a definite date to our finds; but
a period somewhere around 2000 B.C. would perhaps not be very
far from the truth. At all events they belong to a time shortly before
the Chinese Bronze Age, and this is known to have begun a few cen-
turies at most before 1500 B.C.

Field-work in northern China cannot be carried on either in the
winter or in the summer, on account of frozen soil in the one case
and torrential rains in the other. Hence during the winter of 1931-32 a
visit was paid to the famous museum of the Ecole Francaise d’Extréme
Orient in Hanoi, French Indo-China, and another, during the summer
of 1933, to the very fine museum at Port Arthur, under Japanese
management. In each case, studies were made of the collections, and
photographs were obtained.

The remainder of the Expedition’s stay in China was occupied
with the study of its finds, preparatory to their publication. The work
of the Freer Gallery Field Expedition in China was terminated early
in 1934.

*It was first made known to the world by Dr. J. G. Andersson, now of the
Eastern Asiatic Museum at Stockholm.
ARCHEOLOGICAL EXCAVATIONS ON KODIAK
ISLAND, ALASKA

By ALES HRDLICKA
Curator, Division of Physical Anthropology, U. S. National Museum

The 1934 season’s work on Kodiak Island, Alaska, begun in the
earlier part of June, continued without interruption until Septem-
ber 3, the day before departure, and met with substantial success, with
the gathering of over 40 boxes of valuable anthropological collections.
In addition to the excavations a brief survey was made of the old
sites in parts of the Cooks Inlet region and on the mainland opposite
Kodiak Island.

For the success of the season the expedition is indebted to the U. S.
Coast Guard Service, with the captain, officers, and men of the cutter
Morris; to the U. S. Navy, Rear Admiral Cyrus W. Cole, with the
captain, officers, and men of the minesweeper Ortolan; and to the
Alaska Packers Co., more particularly to B. R. Hart, vice president,
and Gordon Jones, superintendent of the Larsen Bay Cannery. The
personnel of the expedition consisted of the writer and five volunteer
students, namely, C. T. R. Bohannan, Robert F. Heizer, Thurman
MacRae, Iver H. Zarbell, and Harold E. Zickefoose. For the benefit
of these students a series of tri-weekly lectures was given, besides
which they received practical field training.

The excavations were concentrated, in the main, on the heart of
our site.’ Vertical exposures totaling well over 300 feet were made
or renewed, reaching to the glacial till on which the whole site rests
and ranging up to 16 feet in height. All the work proceeded by care-
ful systematic undercutting, with tumbling of the top rubble. Scarcely
a day passed without something entirely new appearing in the cul-
tural remains, showing that the place is still far from completely
known. Much additional light was shed on the involved problems of
the deposits ; but there arose, too, new perplexities. At least one other
season will be required for reaching final conclusions. The principal
facts that became manifest during this summer were as follows:

The site is certainly one of considerable antiquity ; this cannot yet
be measured in years, but extends over many centuries. Even the
uppermost deposits are pre-Russian.

+See Explorations and Field-Work of the Smithsonian Institution in 1931;
idem, in 10932.

47
48 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

It was occupied, as time went on, unevenly, not all the ground being
utilized at any time.

There were two distinct peoples here, the older, to whom are attribu-
table about three-fourths of the deposits, and the later, of the same
stock as found on the island by the Russians. The older people are
still unidentified; the later were the Koniags and were apparently
identical with the Aleut.

The older strain settled on the site at an early period. Their re-
mains rest either directly on the glacial till or on a layer of “ butter
earth,” a peculiar gritless yellow claylike deposit which has been diag-
nosed by our geologists as metamorphosed volcanic ashes. They may
deep” and the

ee

on cultural grounds be subdivided into the older or
intermediate,” but their physical type continues the same

oe

later or
up to the Aleut invasion.

The Aleut occupancy is marked everywhere by the appearance of
rubble—more or less burnt broken stones that had been used mainly
in sweat baths. They differ culturally as well as physically from the
earlier people, whom they completely displaced.

The culture of the oldest occupants of the site was in the main
superior to that of the same people of later time, and differed from
this in several marked respects. It shows a superior art in lamp
sculpture ; a lesser variety of points and of objects of bone; absence
or great scarcity of ivory; prevalence of chipped, with rarity of pol-
ished, large points and knives ; absence of chisels and axes ; frequency
of ‘bird stones”; presence of characteristic small harpoons, with
absence of multiple-small-barb and other large harpoons ; absence of
poniards ; frequency of bone wedges; apparent absence of cannibal-
ism; and absence of semisubterranean construction, sweat baths, and
rubble. The food habits of these oldest settlers also differ from those
of the later people, even those of the same derivation (the “ inter-
mediates ’”?). They buried their dead individually within, but probably
also outside, the site.

As times go on, from the old to the intermediate, the physical
characteristics of the people remain the same, but their habits and
culture change. The old lamp art fades away gradually ; chipped stone
implements are more and more replaced by the polished variety ; the
stone ax and adze appear, though still rarely; a new form of barbed
point—a long slender cylindrical shaft with one, two, or even three
rows of small barbs—appears, as do poniards and other bone tools;
ivory objects, handsomely carved, up to ivory portraits, occur now
and then, and so do various decorative and fetishistic articles; indi-
vidual burials in the site are still practiced but are scarce and greatly

SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1934 49

Fic. 41—Our shack on the site and the beginnings of the “ outdoor museum.”

Fic. 42—The “ gang” of volunteer students, 1934.

From left to right: T. MacRae, H. E. Zickefoose, R. F. Heizer,
Gi iek Bohannan~lesee: Zarbell:
50 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

overshadowed by “ nest” burials, which in clusters of 5 to 11 skele-
tons occur disseminated over a very large part, if not all, of the site,
at one level—just about the middle of the deposits. “ Bird stones”
are now scarce, bone wedges equally or even more frequent, and the
people now leave large bands (layer upon layer) of shell, much ashes,
and much more or less dressed slate, as well as whale bones, particu-
larly vertebrae dressed and used for seats, and shoulder blades, used
also for seats and probably other purposes.

The use of semisubterranean dwellings is late, and they are all
to be ascribed to the newcomers, the “ Koniags” or Aleuts. They
excavated the old deposits, sunk posts down occasionally to the deep
layers, disrupted and scattered burials, found and probably made use
of old stone lamps as well as other cultural objects of the older people,
and filled depressions, even some of their own abandoned house holes,
with the old debris and their own rubble.

In the main high deposits at some places there are recognizable
older and later rubbles, but over the lower parts of the site there is
only the more recent layer. The rubble differs in character in different
places. In some it is mostly more or less burnt slate, in others broken
beach stones, the latter including here and there fragments even of
old lamps and of other dressed stones. The rubble is interspersed or
overlaid irregularly with loose clam and mussel shells and reaches
everywhere a brown to black humus which covers all the surface and
is composed partly of the remnants of vegetation, partly of rotted
and disintegrated wood and thatch or sod which constituted the frame-
work and roof of the Aleut dwellings.

The subsequent, largely Koniag, old excavations account for many
disturbed burials, missing parts of skeletons, and scattered bones and
skulls; also doubtless for various lamps and older cultural objects
now found in the Koniag deposits. The objects thus found probably
favored both adoption and imitation by the Koniags. This appears
to have been the case especially with the “ banded” stones (club-
heads, hammers, or sinkers), and with lamps.

A feature that was particularly noticeable this year, and one that
has as yet received but little if any attention in archeology, is that
every household differed more or less in habits and cultural products
from every other, and this applies to all the periods; in some cases
the differences, together with various adaptations from the past, were
such as to give an impression almost of a different culture. Thus
there was one Aleut region where we were sure of finding excellent
stone chisels (or adzes) ; other old areas that gave ornate, or again
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1934

Lon
HH

Fic. 43.—Part of the main exposures, showing a sweatbath fireplace and a
stone-slab platform.

Fic. 44.—South wall of “image igloo,” showing two skulls in situ,
and other specimens.
2 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

On

but simple, lamps; and still others that differed in the type of points,
knives, the use of the slate slabs and whalebone, and in other ways.
The whole site, it has become plain, was not at any period a homo-
geneous cultural entity, but an aggregate of related, yet more or less
culturally differing, family units, no one of which would give any-
thing like a complete picture of the whole. And the differences in
separate units or in some lines were in some cases enormous. The
differences were least in the articles of common use, and greatest in
decoration and artistic objects, but also in cannibalism, food, ete.

Remains of a cremated intermediary-period adult male skeleton
were found; and one adult female with one juvenile body had been
burned partially during what appeared to have been a wide conflagra-
tion of the settlement at one time. Evidence has accumulated that at
one time during the intermediary period, corresponding to just about
the middle of the main deposit, there had taken place in the settle-
ment a great massacre, following which, after some time, the survi-
vors gathered and buried what remained of the bodies in heaps which
now constitute the “nests” of burials found over a very large part
of the site at the same level and at moderate intervals. These “ nests ”
were thought at first (1931-32) to have been ordinary secondary
burials, but their number (thus far eight have been discovered), their
absence everywhere else in the deposits except at the one level, the
mixture of bodies (females, males, youngsters), the weapons found
with, and even still in, the skulls and skeletons, the occasional smashed
skulls, mostly an absence of any order in the burials and of any mortu-
ary offerings, all point to a massacre rather than to an epidemic or a
regular form of secondary burials.

The increasing number of skulls and skeletons from all layers makes
it possible now to see clearly the physical type of the older as well
as the later (Aleut) people. The latter type is plainly that of the
Koniags found on the island by the Russians ; the earlier stock, physi-
cally somewhat more delicate and of different, more oblong, head
form, is not yet definitely identifiable. In the face these older skulls
show occasional eskimoid affinities, but the vault differs and together
with other features approaches more that of the Indian. Except for
their occasional somewhat eskimoid facial characters, these skulls come
close to those of the prevalent type of those of the Frazer River, the
Shoshone, and the California Indians.
SALVAGING EARLY CULTURAL REMAINS IN THE
VAN EEE Y OE PEs LOWER COLUMBIA RIVER

By HERBERT W. KRIEGER
Curator, Division of Ethnology, U. S. National Museum

The first governmental exploration of the Far West undertaken
in 1804 was the famous Lewis and Clark Expedition from the Mis-
souri River to the Pacific Ocean. The personal narratives and official
report of this undertaking are of first importance to Americans as
the record of the first white men to cross the continent between the
British and Spanish possessions. Throughout their journey these
remarkable explorers showed a keen interest in the Indian inhabitants
of the territory traversed, and in many instances their detailed obser-
vations are the only available information on Ind‘an customs for a
given locality. The early establishment of trading posts in the valley
of the lower Columbia River, occupied in historic times by Chinookan
tribes, was instrumental in breaking down the native cultures 100
years before the settlement of the Great Plains. To supplement, there-
fore, at this late date these pioneer observations by means of arche-
ological research has been the good fortune of the National Museum
under the Smithsonian Institution in cooperation with the Bureau of
Indian Affairs through an allotment of $4,000, later increased to
$6,000, of P. W. A. funds. The work was of importance at this time,
as with the completion of the Bonneville Dam across the Columbia
River in the vicinity of Portland and the flooding of an area within
the Columbia River gorge extending from Bonneville to The Dalles,
Oreg., a distance of approximately 50 miles, the information obtained
would otherwise have been lost.

Work began on June 26 with excavations on Bradford Island, and
operations were completed December 18. Former Indian villages,
camp sites, and burial grounds were excavated in the immediate
vicinity of Bonneville, downstream as far as Prindle, Wash., and
upstream from Bradford Island, on which the Bonneville Dam is
under construction, as far as The Dalles. Each former Indian village
site investigated was mapped, and its location, when possible, was
identified from notes contained in the journal of Lewis and Clark.
Representative house ruins were either trenched or excavated in
toto, and in each case an attempt was made to identify its character
and type of construction.

53
54. SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Fic. 45.—The rugged valley of the Deschutes River in Central Oregon
40 miles above its confluence with the Columbia just above The Dalles.
Indians from the nearby reservations annually assemble at the various rapids,
which form strategic salmon-fishing grounds.

Fic. 46.—Fishing ground on the Indian Reserve at Celilo, Oreg. Here the
waters of the Columbia pour over ledges to form cascades and rapids. Salmon
on their spawning journey upstream are netted or speared by the Indians.

Fie. 47.—Netting salmon at Celilo Falls, on the Columbia River. Occa-
sionally a platform collapses and the Indian fisherman is seen no more.
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1934

ot

Fic. 48—Excavating a house ruin ina former Indian village at Hood River,
Oreg. The block standing in relief at the foot of the shovel is compressed
wood ashes from the hearth. The native dwelling here uncovered is of the
semisubterranean type with earthen roof.

Fic. 49—Native painting in red ochre of an elk. This pictograph appears
on a smooth shelf of basaltic rock at the roadside on entering the Indian
village of Spearfish, Wash.
56 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Many of the habitation sites observed were obviously fishing camps
used only during the salmon fishing season, since they were situated
in the immediate vicinity of the river. Their remains can be traced
frequently by the presence of ashes, charred wood, and blackened
stones from camp fires, fishing implements, such as bone fishgigs,
grooved stone weights for holding nets in position across the mouth
of small tributary streams, and by the presence of chipped fragments
of chalcedony, agate, and other stones preferred by Indians in the
manufacture of their weapon points and cutting implements. Occa-
sionally, a beautifully shaped and symmetrically worked stone bowl
or a stone pestle of worked basalt, granite, or andesite, often with a
carved animal figurine for its head, or an animal fetish of carved stone
much like those fashioned by the Pueblo Indians of Arizona and New
Mexico, supplied mute evidence of the artistic abilities of this pre-
historic race of early Americans.

The gradient of the Columbia throughout this area is practically
zero, except for a short distance at the Cascades where it drops about
20 feet in about 2} miles. Tides affect the river to a point just below
these rapids. This sudden increase in grade is a probable remnant of
a comparatively recent slide from the vicinity of Red Bluffs and Table
Mountain, that at one time temporarily dammed the river, possibly
giving rise to the Indian legend of the Bridge of the Gods. At present
the effect of the slide is shown by the fact that the channel of the
river is constricted at this point and pushed against the south wall of
the gorge. Just below these rapids at Bradford Island is the site of
the Bonneville project.

On the lower portion of the Red Bluff slide near North Bonneville
on the Washington side of the river, the Indians had taken advantage
of the hummock and hollow topography in building at Moffett’s Hot
Springs one of the largest villages in the area, with circular pits of
35 former houses clearly distinguishable. The hummocks form a
wind break around the old hollow, which has become filled to a level
flat of several acres extent.

The Indians who formerly occupied this portion of the Columbia
valley were simple hunters and fishermen. For the most part they
were the direct ancestors of the Chinookan and Salish tribes who
occupied that territory within historic times. Their distribution and
the formerly well-recognized boundaries of their hunting territory
bear, of course, no relation to their present home in the Yakima and
Warm Springs Indian Reservations located respectively in Wash-
ington and Oregon.
ARCHEOLOGICAL WORK IN FLORIDA
By M. W. STIRLING
Chief, Bureau of American Ethnology

Under the relief program for the winter of 1933-34, opportunity
was afforded for the Smithsonian Institution to conduct archeological
work in cooperation with the Federal Emergency Relief Administra-
tion. After assisting in the preparation of plans for such work in
five States, the writer left Washington on December 11, 1933, to
supervise the several projects to be carried on in Florida.

After conferences with State relief officials in Tallahassee and
Jacksonville, excavations were begun in Manatee and Sarasota Coun-
ties on the west coast, in Palm Beach County near Lake Okeechobee,
and in Dade, Brevard, and Volusia Counties on the east coast.

The writer was occupied principally with administrative duties, but
opportunity was taken whenever possible to watch the progress of the
work at all sites. During the winter two visits were made to Macon
Ga., to view the work being done there in cooperation with the So-
ciety for Georgia Archaeology, under direction of Dr. Arthur Kelly.

At Canaveral Island, work was conducted in the region occupied
in early historic times by the Surruque Indians, and the mounds exca-
vated undoubtedly belonged to this group or their immediate ances-
tors. Articles representing material culture proved to be very scarce,
but an excellent series of skeletal material was recovered as well as
a quantity of data concerning burial customs. Burials occurred with
the bodies fully extended, the heads pointing toward the center of the
mound and the feet toward the periphery. Some of the mounds exca-
vated by Dr. George Woodbury and Erik Reed appeared to be pre-
historic, others historic. Little difference between these groups was
noticeable either with regard to physical type or burial methods.

A comparatively small sand burial mound was excavated on the
banks of the Halifax River in Ormond Beach by J. D. Jennings.
Complete excavation of the site revealed that beneath the mound a
group of burials had been arranged in two concentric circles. A col-
lection of pottery, stone, and shell specimens was obtained.

A badly mutilated refuse and burial site was excavated in the
northern part of the city of Miami Beach by G. M. Stirling assisted
by Vernon Lamme. This site yielded a representative collection of
both skeletal material and objects of material culture.

At Belle Glade, under the direction of G. M. Stirling, a habitation
mound was excavated. Adjoining this site was a sand burial mound

37
(ee)

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

“

FrG. 50.—Cross-section of Ormond Beach mound, showing old soil line and
a fire pit in the middle.

Fig. 51.—Trench at the edge of the Belle Glade burial mound. The latest
sand mound is visible in the upper left corner. Below the black muck may

be seen the remains of the earlier sand mound. Under this is the early muck
mound.
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1934 59

Fic. 52.—Cremated burials in a mound near the Little Manatee River in
Manatee County.

Fic. 53.—Cross-section in the shell burial mound on Perico Island.

5
60 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Excavations yielded a large and representative collection including ob-
jects of shell, bone, stone, and wood. Fragments of black undecorated
pottery were abundant. Excavations at the burial site revealed that
originally a muck burial mound had been erected, and later a sand
mound built above this was destroyed by a hurricane. Subsequently
a third mound was erected on the same site. A limestone pavement
had been built between the edge of the first sand mound and the
bank of the river. Objects of European manufacture were found
on the surface of the last sand mound, but not in the two previous
structures. Although the skeletal material was badly disturbed, a very
large series of bones was obtained. In the remains of the first sand
mound were recovered a large number of carved wooden specimens,
which had been preserved when buried by the flood which had de-
stroyed the mound. These show an unmistakable affinity with the
wooden objects recovered many years ago by Cushing at Key Marco.

In Manatee County, D. L. Reichard excavated four small sand
mounds. These present a puzzling archeological problem because of
the variety of burial customs exhibited. In one mound was found the
foundation of a mortuary temple containing a cremation pyre, and in
the mound itself all of the burials had been cremated. In another
mound of this section all of the burials were secondary bundle burtals.
A third mound contained both bundled and flexed burials, and the
fourth mound of the region contained secondary burials, the exact
nature of which was difficult to determine because of their almost
complete disintegration. Two of these mounds were post-Spanish.

On Perico Island in the same county a shell burial mound, exca-
vated by Marshall Newman, yielded an excellent collection of skeletal
material, although it contained very few objects of material culture.
The burials in this mound were all flexed interments, differing from
the four sand mounds excavated in this region by Mr. Reichard.

Near Englewood in Sarasota County Mr. Newman excavated a
large sand burial mound. Structural details of this site were of more
than usual interest. A small sterile sand mound had been built over
a large rectangular pit containing more than a hundred burials. Over
this primary mound a secondary mound was later erected which con-
tained numerous burials scattered throughout. No noticeable differ-
ence was observable in the pottery types obtained throughout.

The final results of the season’s work in Florida were very satis-
factory. Sites were selected in regions from which little information
was available. With the new data obtained as a result of these relief
projects, we now have a fairly complete cross-section of the arche-
ology of this State.
A EOLSOM. CAMP SITE AND WORKSHOP
By FRANK HH: oH. ROBERTS, JR.

Archeologist, Bureau of American Ethnology

A significant addition to the material illustrating an early phase of
aboriginal American culture was obtained during October and Novem-
ber, 1934, 1n northern Colorado, where traces of a camp site and work-
shop attributable to so-called Folsom Man were brought to light. A
whole series of implements—several types of scrapers, a variety of
cutting edges, drills, engraving tools, and numerous examples of the
characteristic Folsom point—were found in situ in a dark layer of
earth 14 feet below the present ground level (figs. 54, 55). This
layer, exposed in the side of a deep, narrow gully, also contained
quantities of cut and broken animal bones, stone chips and flakes
resulting from the manufacture of tools, charcoal and ashes, and other
refuse such as accumulates around a habitation (fig. 56.) The con-
centration undoubtedly was a midden, and traces of habitations prob-
ably are nearby, although none was found. Prior to this find, the
only traces of a presumably early hunting people were typical finely
chipped points of stone, but now there is a definite complex of asso-
ciated implements. In addition, the stone flakes give evidence of the
technique employed in the manufacture of implements, and the spalls
and nodules indicate that the stone-working was done on the spot.
Considerable raw material is available near the site, and this may
have been one of the attractions which led to its occupation.

The discovery was due to information furnished by Maj. Roy G.
Coffin, of Colorado State College, Fort Collins, through Dr. John B.
Reeside, of the United States Geological Survey. Correspondence be-
tween the writer and Major Coffin indicated that an inspection of the
locality was warranted and the owner of the land, William Linden-
meier, Jr., of Fort Collins, gave permission for the investigations.
The site was originally located by Judge C. C. Coffin and his son,
A. L. Coffin, about 10 years ago, and since then they and Major
Coffin have collected numerous specimens from the surface. They
were impressed with the fact that all of the points differed from the
usual Indian arrowheads found in the region but were not aware of
their significance until 5 years ago, when Dr. E. B. Renaud, of the
University of Denver, explained that they were Folsom points.
Dr. Renaud was examining local collections with the view of plotting

61
62 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Fic. 54.—General view of the district. Site is in gully bank to right of car
in middle foreground.

Fic. 55.—Location of midden deposit. Man is standing on level where material
was found. Picture taken at beginning of investigations.
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1934 6

Fic. 56.— Layer containing bones and implements. Objects came from bottom
of dark earth. Large bone fragments in situ.

° '
es

ONE JNCH

Fig. 57—Series of implements. Third from left in top row is a typical
Folsom point.
64 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

distribution maps for various types of implements, when he noted the
points in the Coffin series. He visited the site where they were found
and mentioned it in his report. No actual work was done there,
however.

When the writer was taken to the place where the points were
found, he observed that it was a denuded area and that the speci-
mens recovered had undoubtedly been in top-layer material which
had been eroded away by wind and water. The stone implements,
being heavy, had remained until picked up. This location promised
little from the standpoint of digging. On the second day, while ex-
ploring the adjacent terrain in company with the writer, Judge
Coffin picked up a portion of a Folsom point along the bank of the
ravine a quarter of a mile from the spot where the Coffin specimens
were found. Close inspection of the precipitous bank revealed an un-
disturbed and intact layer of midden material. Work was started,
with the results summarized in the first paragraph.

The type of point designated Folsom is not a new discovery, nor
was it restricted to a small geographical area. Variations of the form
have been found from the Rockies to the Atlantic, from southern
Canada to the Gulf of Mexico. It is represented in collections in
numerous museums and in at least one instance has been called by
another name. It did not attract particular attention, despite its indi-
vidual characteristics, because the examples were all surface finds.
Its true significance was established in 1927, however, by the Colorado
Museum of Natural History at Denver, and the interest focused
upon it has brought to light many specimens which had previously
passed unnoticed. The points which became the pattern for the type
were found near the small town of Folsom, N. Mex.—hence the
name. They were in association with skeletons of an extinct species
of bison, one which is considered as having lived at the close of the
glacial period. Since then other points of that type have been found
at different localities along with bones of the musk ox and mammoth,
which are also ice-age animals. The supposition that the type repre-
sents considerable antiquity rests upon these associations. Whether
the finds actually date man in North America at the beginning of
the post-glacial period or demonstrate a later survival of ice-age ani-
mals is a phase of the problem which the geologist and the paleontolo-
gist must solve. Archeologists generally concede that the points belong
to the earliest phase of aboriginal American culture yet discovered.
The main importance of the Colorado finds lies in the fact that for
the first time a variety of implements is known for that horizon.
INDEAN MOUNDS ON SEILOH BATTEEFIELD
By PRANK EH: oH. ROBERTS, JR.

Archeologist, Bureau of American Ethnology

An extensive Indian site on the former battlefield at Shiloh National
Military Park, Pittsburg Landing, Tenn., was the scene of intensive
archeological investigations during the interval from December 21,
1933, to March 30, 1934. The project was sponsored by the C.W.A.
through the Smithsonian Institution and was under the direction of
the writer. The area in which evidences of aboriginal occupation are
found lies in the eastern portion of the Park on a high bluff above
the west bank of the Tennessee River. It is bordered on the north
and south by deep ravines cut by tributary branches of the main
stream. Major features of the site are seven large mounds, numer-
ous small elevations, and a long, low embankment extending across
the neck of the bluff from one ravine to the other. Six of the large
mounds presumably served as platforms for structures, possibly
temples, and the seventh was a burial place. The less conspicuous
mounds indicate where dwellings once stood. The long, low ridge
marks the line of a former palisade which protected the community
along its western side.

Investigations included the digging of trenches at regular intervals
in the area surrounding and lying between the main mounds (fig. 58) :
sectioning of the burial mound (fig. 59) ; trenching two of the plat:
form mounds; examination of a number of house sites; and excava-
tions at several places along the palisade ridge. The trenches through
the flats revealed the traces of 30 houses, a temple, and a number of
refuse deposits. The Indian houses were found to have been round
in outline (fig. 60). Their walls were of wattle and daub construc:
tion, poles and cane plastered with mud. In two instances remains
of white man’s dwellings were discovered. These structures, log
cabins with a fireplace at one end of their single rooms, had been
abandoned and fallen into ruins prior to the Battle of Shiloh in 1862.

Thirty interments were uncovered in the burial mound, and in addi
tion the remnants of a log-covered pit were discovered on the ground
level near the center of the mound (fig. 61). This pit seemingly had
contained four bodies, but it was impossible to obtain correct data
on the feature because the mound had been dug into about 35 years
ago and most of the timbers and bones removed. The two platform

65
66 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Fic. 59.—Sectioning one of the mounds for burials.
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1934 67

Fic. 61.—Portion of log-covered burial pit showing remains of
timbers and bones.
68 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

mounds were trenched to verify their identification as such. Informa-
tion was obtained on the manner in which they had been erected, and
one of them gave evidence that it had been placed over the remains
of a burned dwelling. No specimens were found in them, and there
were no traces of buildings on their tops. Because of the large trees
growing on these mounds, which the Park Service was particularly
anxious to preserve, it was not possible to investigate them thoroughly.
The other four mounds were not touched. Two of them had been
dug into by earlier excavators, one had been used as a burial place
for dead of the 21st Illinois infantry following the Battle of Shiloh,
and the other had not only been dug into but in addition had served
as a cemetery for a small settlement, no longer in existence, on the
river bank nearby.

Among the specimens obtained from the site are several restorable
pieces of pottery; large quantities of potsherds for study purposes ;
stone implements; bone implements; shell ornaments; plaques of
mica. Numerous objects dating from the battle—the right wing of
the Confederate forces encompassed the Mound area on the afternoon
of the first day’s fighting—were recovered and turned over to the
Park museum. These included fragments of cannon balls, grape
shot, minnie balls, bayonets, canteens, horse trappings, and personal
equipment.

On both sides of the Tennessee River, above and below the main
mound area, are numerous small burial mounds and village sites. The
latter in contrast to the main cluster indicate a comparatively lengthy
occupation. These villages were in most cases on low ground and
subject to flooding by the river. For this reason it is suggested that
the site on the bluffs, where the major excavations were made, may
represent both a refuge spot, to which the Indians retired at times
of high water, and the religious center of the region, which was placed
beyond the reach of floods. Although large numbers were present
only in times of stress or for ceremonial observances, a small group
may have occupied the main center continuously.

The work at Shiloh had an additional interest to members of the
Smithsonian Institution, owing to the fact that Maj. J. W. Powell,
organizer and first director of the Bureau of American Ethnology,
was a captain of artillery attached to the Illinois troops taking part
in the battle. Several markers indicate positions occupied by his
battery, and at the spot where it stood fast against severe pressure
from the enemy, the State of Illinois has erected a monument. As a
result of wounds sustained the first day of the battle Major Powell
lost an arm.
Ve rE OMOGICAI bh XeLORATIONS IN THE COUNTRY
Ohh BASTERIN: CHUMASEH

By WILLIAM DUNCAN STRONG
Anthropologist, Bureau of American Ethnology

Of all the native peoples of southern California the Chumash
were the most advanced. Unfortunately, their culture crumbled soon
after the Spanish contact, and today the exact nature of their civiliza-
tion must be determined by the archeologist. In the course of the
C.W.A.-Smithsonian excavations in 1933-34 at Buena Vista Lake,
aided by volunteers from the technical staff, I was able to make a
brief archeological reconnaissance of the Cuyama Valley. Later, in
April 1934, two weeks was spent under the guidance of J. G. James
in exploring the rugged mountainous district adjacent to the Sisquoc
River. These territories, now included in the Santa Barbara National
Forest, comprise the eastern and archeologically unknown border of
the old Chumash domain.

Three village sites and an ancient cemetery were particularly in-
vestigated in the Cuyama Valley. One of these near the head of
Quatal Canyon was protohistoric. Several irregular summer shelters
with juniper posts showing on the surface, and a semisubterranean
winter earth lodge in the arroyo below were excavated. The latter
was ovoid (16 feet in length), had two large central posts (charred
but intact), a hard black floor, and a much used clay fireplace with a
definite flue leading up the highest, northeast wall. Cross-sections
revealed charred rafters resting on the floor and radiating in from
the walls; above these were burned twigs, grass, and earth superim-
posed. Like all other earth lodges excavated, the entrance seems to
have been through the roof.

On the Caliente Ranch a prehistoric village was investigated. One
house completely excavated was round (19 feet in diameter) and the
floor was about 2 feet below the present surface. It had four large
central post holes (fig. 62, 1-4), a cache pit, and a well-made fireplace
on one side lined with boulders.

At the side of a prominent natural mound on the Cuyama Ranch
we completely excavated another prehistoric lodge (fig. 63). It had
a shallow pit and was ovoid in form (24 feet long) with four central
post holes (fig. 63, I-4) and a small storage pit. Except for a pile of
burned rocks and a few broken mortar and pestle fragments it con-
tained almost no artifacts. On the crest of the mound here we un-

69
7O SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Fic. 62—-Floor of prehistoric earth lodge, Caliente Ranch
(nos. 1-4, central post holes ).

Fic. 63.—Floor of prehistoric earth lodge, Cuyama Ranch (datum square to
show layers in center).

Fic. 64.—Superficial burials, Cuyama Ranch (dotted circle mouth of
deep burial ).
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS

, 1934

|

Fic. 65.—The valley of the Sisquoc and the Hurricane Deck country
to the right.

Fic. 66.—Large red pictograph, perhaps the god Chungichnish, between
Manzana Canyon and the south fork of the Sisquoc River.

Fic. 67.—Large barren rock shelter with faint pictographs,
Montgomery Potrero.
72 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

covered 18 single flexed and a few mixed burials in shallow pits
(fig. 64). Artifacts were rare, but a few native and some European
objects occurred. Below the surface burials were 11 round, deep pits
penetrating into the underlying gravel. At depths of from 4 to 6
feet were tightly flexed single or double burials, in most cases wrapped
in native textiles. One skull, in a double burial, was covered with
portions of an asphaltum-coated basket and a thin oak bowl. The
mouth of one of the pits can be seen in the illustration (fig. 64, dotted
circle). Artifacts were surprisingly rare at all these sites; mortars
(often with an asphaltum ring), sandstone bowls, lap stones, pestles,
small notched arrow points, rare dart or knife blades, numerous tiny
Olivella beads, rare Pismo clam or steatite disk beads, a few wooden
hair ornaments, and one or two steatite sherds were the main types
encountered. Compared to coastal Chumash sites they were extremely
poverty-stricken.

Our pack trip into the Sisquoc led us from the Cuyama west up
Salisbury Canyon. Here we examined a village site and a burial
ground that had been excavated by Mr. James. He collected typical
Chumash steatite ollas and other coastal artifacts here, associated with
Guadalajara pottery of the early colonial period. Our main camp
was made at the forks of the Sisquoc. In the rugged canyon (fig. 65)
we saw hundreds of deer and several California condor. Days of
hard climbing up the North Fork, through the Hurricane Deck coun-
try (fig. 65), and into Manzana Canyon revealed numerous rock
shelters. Certain of these near Sand Springs had small rock- and
plank-lined cists containing fragments of coiled baskets, twined
water bottles, tule matting, and a few other artifacts nested in grass
and coiled manzanita brush. Others on the North Fork and at
Rattlesnake Springs yielded fragments of digging sticks, wooden fire
hearths, and other perishable artifacts. Near here we noted one of
the most striking pictographs observed on the trip (fig. 66). One of
the large rock shelters on Montgomery Potrero which contained
faint pictographs is illustrated (fig. 67). Two villages were examined
on the upper Sisquoc but the house pits yielded little material, and
the floor lines were very indistinct.

In general, our reconnaissance of the eastern Chumash country re-
vealed a considerable number of sites but a great paucity of artifacts.
It would appear that the people of this area were peripheral to the
main Chumash centers on the coast and in the main possessed a simple
culture like that of the valley Yokuts. Our own investigations do not
indicate that the upper Sisquoc was ever an important trade route
for shell and steatite from the coast.
EXCAVATING ANGCLEND YOKUTS SHELLMOUNDS
IN CALIFORNIA

By WINSLOW M. WALKER
Associate Anthropologist, Bureau of American Ethnology

The Federal Civil Works Administration program during the win-
ter of 1933-34 provided the opportunity for excavating a group of
large shellmounds near Taft, Calif., in the upper San Joaquin valley.
This site had previously been located and tentatively identified as the
village site of Tulamniu, “the place of the Tulamni, or Tule Dwel-
lers,” one of the lake tribes of Yokuts first visited in 1772 by the
Spaniards, and because its excavation would require the labor of a
large force of men for a considerable period of time, it was a most
desirable location for the archeological project allotted to the Bureau
of American Ethnology in California.

Work was begun the middle of December under the direction of
Dr. W. D. Strong, assisted by the writer. We were fortunate in
being able to obtain two trained California archeologists as assis-
tants, W. R. Wedel, from the University of California, and FE. F.
Walker, from the Southwest Museum, and the staff was augmented
by technical men and graduate students. Employment as laborers
was given to about 175 unemployed men from the Taft region of
Kern County. Large scale operations made possible the examination
of two shellmounds on the slope of the hills at the western side of
Buena Vista Lake, now dry, and the uncovering of two large burial
places on the hilltops just back of the mounds.

By combining the methods of trenching, screening, and clearing
large areas horizontally, a good idea of the internal structure and
contents of the mounds was obtained. They had been used not only
as places on which to build huts, but also as refuse middens and burial
spots. These mounds, more than 1,000 feet long, 150 feet wide, and
about 10 feet thick, were the result of accumulation of large amounts
of shell, sand, loam, ash, and camp debris over long periods of occu-
pation, perhaps conditioned by the rise and fall of the lake waters.

The burial hilltops yielded a large number of mortuary objects,
including finely chipped flint points, knives, bone awls, shell beads and
pendants. The bodies in these cemeteries had been buried in the flexed
position, wrapped in soft woven fiber, in some instances also encased

73
74 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Fic. 68.—General view of operations on south mound.

Fic. 69.—Looking east toward lake through trench in north mound.
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1934

NI

on

Fic. 71.—Double burial in pit.
760 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION
Fie

‘tule mats. Adults and children alike had been buried in one grave-
yard without much regard for disturbing earlier burials. Most un-
usual was the finding of several skeletons stuck full of arrowpoints,
indicating violent death from arrows shot at close range. However,
the position of the points in the bones makes it seem unlikely that
the victims died in battle, and strongly suggests the well known prac-
tice of several historic valley tribes of despatching their unsuccessful
medicine men. This cemetery therefore, may have contained the
bodies of a part of the population who perhaps perished in some
plague or pestilence which their local medicine men were unable to
prevent, and so they too were put to death for their failure.

Interments in the shellmounds were more carefully made, especi-
ally those of adults, many of whom were laid in circular or oval pits.
These pits, however, were so similar to the roasting and cache pits
found in the vicinity of the house floors as to suggest a secondary
use of many of them for mortuary purposes. Human infant bones as
well as charred fragments of the bones of adults were occasionally
found associated with animal bones in the refuse pits.

The picture in general is that of a primitive hunting and fishing
people who had presumably followed up the course of the San Joaquin
from the San Francisco Bay region and settled many hundreds of
years ago around Buena Vista Lake, where an abundance of fish,
shellfish, fowl, and game of many kinds existed. The distinctive
feature of this marsh culture was the use of the tule rush for house-
building material, fishing rafts, textile fibers, burial shrouds, and even
fuel. Bone was used for awls, bodkins, punches, flakers, whistles, fish-
hooks, beads, and pendants. Stone tools included mortars, pestles,
mullers, grinding slabs, hammers, balls, and plummets. Flint, obsidian,
and schistose were chipped into projectile points, knives, drills, and
scrapers. There was no pottery, but steatite was fashioned into a
variety of objects such as cooking vessels, reels, arrow-straighteners,
grooved “ tule creasers,” disks, beads, and miscellaneous small forms.
Shell ornaments ranging from large disk pendants to tiny ring beads
were cut from abalone, olivella, clam, and limpet, and trade contacts
with the coast are indicated by this use of marine shells and by the
steatite industry. Obsidian could only have come from the eastern
Sierra tribes. The culture of the ancient Tule Dwellers was, there-
fore, not materially different from historic Yokuts tribes.
RACING DESSOTO:S ROUTE
By JOHN R. SWANTON

Ethnologist, Bureau of American Ethnology

An invitation to attend the opening meeting of the Society for
Georgia Archaeology at Macon as the guest of Dr. and Mrs. C. C.
Harrold enabled the writer to spend a few weeks in that section visit-
ing sites of historical and archeological interest, accompanied at times
by Dr. Arthur R. Kelly and James A. Ford, archeologists in charge
of the excavations at Macon, as well as several local students of
Georgia history and prehistory. Some collections of potsherds were
made during these trips, but particular attention was devoted to an
attempt to determine points on the route followed by Hernando de
Soto in 1540 when he crossed the territory of the present State of
Georgia from the neighborhood of Bainbridge to a point below
Augusta on the middle course of the Savannah River. This was at-
tended with considerable success, particularly in the identification
beyond reasonable doubt of the crossing place on Oconee River. The
location would seem to have been at Carr Shoals (fig. 72), about 6
miles above Dublin, in Laurens County, the only place on the river
below Milledgeville where the topography corresponds at all closely
with the description of Rodrigo Ranjel, De Soto’s secretary, whose
narrative is considered the most reliable. The trail which crossed here
was later known as the Lower Uchee Path, and on the high land just
east of the ford there was an Indian settlement.

On Saturday, April 17, 1540, according to Ranjel,
they crossed a very large river, divided into two branches, wider than a long
shot from an arquebuse. And the fords were very bad, with many flat stones,
and the water came up to the stirrups and in places to the saddlepads. The
current was very strong and none of the horsemen dared to take a foot soldier
on the croup. The foot soldiers crossed the river further up where it was deeper
in this way. They made a line of thirty or forty men tied together and so they
crossed over supporting each other; and although some were in much danger,
it pleased God that none was drowned, for the horsemen helped them with
their horses and gave them the butt of the lance or the tail of the horse, and in
that way they all got out and passed the night on a hill. That day they lost
many pigs of those which they had brought tame from Cuba, as they were carried
down by the current. (Narr. of De Soto, Bourne ed., vol. 2, p. 93.)

Although the channel has been altered by government engineers
and most of the water has been deflected from the west side to the

iad

4/
78 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Fria. 72.—Carr Shoals in the Oconee River, where De Soto probably crossed
April 17, 1540. Only the eastern channel is shown. (Photograph by J. R.
Swanton. )

Fic. 73—Hill east of Carr Shoals S i
E Shoals, perhaps used as a camping place b
De Soto on the night of April 17, 1540. (Photograph by J. R. Swanton.) :
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1934. 79

Fic. 74——Towns Hill, Oconee County, S. C., probable site of the Cheraw
town (Xuala) in 1540. (Photograph by F. M. Setzler.)

} Sy
ee H pad
PRE WR a x 1 lly, wn Re

Fic. 75.—The Little Tennessee at Franklin. Near this bridge is the ford
where De Soto’s army probably crossed, May 26, 1540. (Photograph by

EF. M. Setzler.)
8o SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

east, there were always two channels at Carr Shoals, there are
stones in the river, and the strength of the current is particularly
noteworthy at this spot. Finally, a high hill suitable for camping 1s
within sight of the river on its eastern side (fig. 73).

By the extension of a similar courtesy, in November the writer
and F. M. Setzler, of the National Museum, were enabled to examine
archeological collections and visit archeological sites in North Caro-
lina and Georgia, and about Panama City, Florida, and to extend the
work of determining De Soto’s route. It is believed that some progress
was made toward working out the part of the route through Georgia,
but the identification of the section from northwestern South Caro-
lina through the Appalachians to the Hiwassee was particularly
satisfying. The old Cheraw town, called by the De Soto chroniclers
Xuala, Xualla, or Chuala, was evidently on what is now called Towns
Hill between Crane and Knox Creeks, Oconee County, where numer-
ous Indian remains are constantly being unearthed (fig. 74). On the
west face of the hill upon which stood the town is a well-marked trail,
and this is connected with an ancient trail whose course is still known
to old residents. It ran across the steep mountain ridges to Franklin via
Highlands and down the valley of the Cullasagee River. The Little
Tennessee River was forded at Franklin, and the plain of Franklin
(fig. 75) was evidently where De Soto’s army stopped for a day while
one of his officers, Alonso Romo, went back in search of a couple of
missing men and where the famous “ lady of Cofitachequi ”’ escaped,
carrying with her a box of unbored pearls. At Franklin we learned
from W. B. McGuire, a surveyor who has spent many years of his life
exploring this country, that the main Indian trail west ran up the valley
of Cartoogechaye Creek and across Black Gap to the head of Shooting
Creek. In fact, Mr. McGuire went out with the investigators and
showed them portions of this trail still discernible on the mountain
sides.

After descending the mountains the trail continued along Shoot-
ing Creek to the Hiwassee and reached Old Hiwassee town at the
mouth of Peachtree Creek, which there is every reason to believe was
the Guasili of the De Soto chronicles. From there it went on along
the north side of the Hiwassee to the mouth of Conasauga Creek,
where a famous war trail from the north crossed and continued south-
west to the neighborhood of Chattanooga. This war trail was picked
up by the Spaniards, who continued along it to and down the Ten-
nessee to the southernmost bend of the latter river.
FIELD-WORK AMONG THE INDIANS OF CALIFORNIA

By JOHN P. HARRINGTON
Ethnologist, Burcau of American Ethnology

Fr. Jeronimo Boscana, a Spanish missionary, in 1822 wrote a con-
cise, scientific treatise on the Indians of the San Juan Capistrano
Mission, on the coast of southern California. The Boscana account
had been published in English translation in 1846, but it remained
for me to discover the Spanish original, and to publish an exact trans-
lation of it in June 1934 (Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections,
vol. 92, no. 4). In order to obtain better notes for a complete edition
of this newly discovered original, I left Washington early in June
and proceeded to Los Angeles, Calif., and thence to the San Juan
Capistrano region.

The Mission and town of San Juan Capistrano are situated on the
creek of that name, only 3 miles above its mouth. The whole coast
of California is a succession of similar creeks, each terminating in a
lagoon at the beach. Between these creeks lie rather bare hills along
the southern coast. San Juan Creek runs directly from Saddleback
Mountain, two great twin peaks 18 miles inland, and has a famous
hot spring at its head. Although so near the coast, Saddleback looks
down to the east abruptly upon a weird desert scene, Elsinore Lake
in a great barren basin, where according to the San Juan Indians man
was created out of the mud of the lake. Still farther east lies the
great snow peak of San Jacinto and the San Jacinto River.

The first 17 days of the work were spent with a very sick infor-
mant. The work was very trying to all concerned but was important
in results. Among rare items obtained may be mentioned the memory
that the piece of flesh cut from a corpse was dried and eaten by the
officer called taaxvko at a memorial ceremony held later; that the hole
in the center of the ceremonial sand painting is called tolmal, hades,
and that we all go there and not beyond the sky; that Woyoot, the
elder culture hero, was the moon, that he not only resurrected as the
moon, but was the moon all the time. He was the first person who
died, and the signs of his sickness can be seen on the haggard face of
the moon. Sixteen months he was sick with a bewitchment brought
upon him by lusting after a frog girl. When about to die, he told
the people not to burn him because there was no fire. Coyote had
been hanging about over-affectionate, licking the eyes of his dying

SI
SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

oO
tbo

| 34 , jouy yp aroiis, por? Y cantar BOO CP UH pusind heme, y Wa. rulmy, canton,
Mudra desu bayles jon muy Pecentey, y pew wn nate Siverboas

fr Jas Pincay mipriabal gut a tiles hacen. ty une home Yhtand wr

tae! yut Jon fey arto, swiadadys Vihar titan ALE ef tante,con wa)
con tdite! De Dortapurtod raped De bes en tony Leal pease Derr, leamady
Forait es A nda OdO J Ue ut avian, y dodavia Vian, e Ju boy fy como
tal uUytarrend? Je (ernpor ve, unas cordeal oe donhuputel y wiol preDrias
Rena fo Hanan Poasl Pm Waser arte oH te Purtag a, fry Och ad Ornar ae
do. pura Lipcent tandren UlaVvas a. fulr od pana/ cb {ued Caras ers
abieatts Por trmeno, yf, tos cantore! Suga? y cantan,y pinbnen es cople,
da, Repiten fos gue baylan hombre ymupertl: Mcher de Su batplos no
Wh enren mas Gute tant rem AE Qe, alpina animale?

Enne. Pode! Juf tel gue celedarran po Pes ty os, De bes pra!

puny ates ¥ Lolemne, Pra we, Je Uanavan dns retha. Vel Somer, ger

cal

LRT TNT

men

Fic. 76.—Reproduction of the upper half of page 34 of the newly discovered
Boscana manuscript showing the earliest known pictures of the paaayat
turtle-shell rattle. In the eastern United States the turtle shell was attached
in a plane with the handle; in the west small shells were sought and one to
five shells were attached crosswise.

Fic. 77.—* Footprints” at Exva Temeeko, the just discovered cradleland
and dispersing point of the southern California Indians. There are hundreds
of these “tracks of bare and sandaled feet” in the rocks and “ prints of baby
cradles.” (Photograph by J. P. Harrington.)
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1934 83

Fic. 78.—A recently discovered photograph taken at San Juan Capistrano
in 1892, original in possession of Annie Woodward. Under the shed roof is
shown the adobe oven in which bread was baked.

Fic. 79—Circle of rocks on spur of hill overlooking Three Springs, upper
Pleitito Canyon, San Emigdio Mountains. (Photograph by J. P. Harrington. )
84 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

“ father.’ He was sent away to get fire, to get rid of him, but looked
back, and seeing that others had kindled the pyre, ran back, seized
the heart of Woy6ot in his mouth and ran away with it. New details
about Chinigchinich, prophet born at the Bixby ranch near Long
Beach, were obtained. The creation chants of these Indians are
beautiful indeed; they tell of the world from its first formation.

It is the common belief of these Indians that although they origi-
nated in the far north, in Alaska or who knows where, and journeyed
south, they then dispersed from a cradleland called Exva Temeeko.
Miss Constance Goddard DuBois was told of the footprints of the
first people on rocks at this place, but she never discovered the locality.
From information given by the sick informant and others, the writer
discovered this place. It lies in the Elsinore or inland region above
referred to, on the west bank of Santa Margarita Creek, an arroyo
which starts in the inland plains and then suddenly turns and plunges
apparently crosswise through the western mountains to reach the
coast. The place exhibits a natural formation resembling hundreds
of footprints of the first people in the rock (fig. 77). Here the people
lived for a long time, when the rocks were still soft and mudlike, until
they migrated in small groups to the habitats where they were found
on the arrival of the Spaniards. The montivol cycle of songs tell of
these migrations of clans and families, mentioning many places along
the routes, and rocks which are petrified animals or people, or which
survive from ancient acts. I also visited many rock paintings and
confirmed the information that the oil used was that of the chilicothe,
Echinocystis macrocarpa Greene. These paintings, representing owls,
rattlesnakes, bears, centipedes, rainbows, and geometric designs, are
said by the Indians to be made by a painting spirit who works secretly
in the darkness. fresh designs were said sometimes to appear in the
morning. The designs seem to have had little connected meaning. I
also obtained an old photograph taken in 1892 (fig. 78).

I then went to the San Emigdio Mountains, visiting many places
and painted caves of importance. Seaching for a circle of stones on
a ridge where the Indians sucked water from a perennial spring by
inserting a carrizo tube through a plugged chink in a rock, we located
a curious corral of rocks on a spur of hill overlooking Three Springs
in the upper Pleitito, which may or may not have been the rock
enclosure in question (fig. 79). I checked the boundaries of the Alli-
klik, or La Liebre-Piro, tribe, who were called Tataviam, people of
where the morning sun hits, by the Kitanemuk. Chumashan Alliklik
equals Yokuts O’dwiye’its’, both meaning “ Grunters.”
THE PASSAMAQUODDY INDIANS OF MAINE

By TRUMAN MICHELSON
Ethnologist, Bureau of American Ethnology

The Passamaquoddy Indians on the State reservation on the coast
of Maine were studied by the writer during a part of September 1934.
By good fortune he was able to stay in an Indian home. Probably
all the Passamaquoddy have white blood in varying degrees, mostly
old, but some recent and contemporary. Their ancient social organi-
zation is utterly shattered; even the Indian kinship terms are mostly
used with English values, and the word “cousin” has been bodily
adopted. On the other hand their religious ideas, as well as their
folklore and mythology survive practically intact. Shamans existed
until very recently, and possibly even yet. The “ transformer ”’ motif
is predominant in their folklore. Every strange-looking rock or other
natural object will have a myth to account for it.

The writer was able to collect four tales not published previously,
one a variant of the European “ three wishes,” previously known to
occur among the Malecites, who are close linguistic kinsmen of the
Passamaquoddy, a variant of how Kuloskap (their national hero)
was conquered by a baby, a tale previously recorded by Speck as
occurring among the Penobscot, comparatively close congeners ; a story
of marital infelicity which is extraordinarily widely spread among
North American Indians; and a rather amusing story of the water
spirits. The collections of Passamaquoddy folklore and mythology
published by Dyneley Prince were found to be very characteristic and
well told stylistically.

These Indians, several hundred in number, all speak Passama-
quoddy. Even blue-eyed and yellow-haired children speak the lan-
euage, so that there is no danger that it will soon become extinct, in
sharp contrast to Penobscot. Of course all (with one or two possible
exceptions) speak English ; but Passamaquoddy is the language used
in their homes. The language itself, contrary to the usual belief, is
highly intricate phonetically, and as had previously been known it ts
clearly a “tonal” language. The differences in the pitch of vowels
are easily noted when one listens to the spoken language. Unfortu-
nately the Passamaquoddies rarely correct one if the syllables are
even purposely put on the wrong key, for the words seem even then

85
N

UTIO

T

pal

S)

ST

IN

SMITHSONIAN

86

Aq ydeisojoy )

(‘4061 ‘[[In) AooueJoq
‘yurid pjo ue wos ‘sueipuy Apponbeuresseg—1g “91

‘sueipuy Apponbewesseg JO Suoljesi9uas 9Al.J—0g “DIF

(‘£101
)y Aooueyoq Aq ydesso} , Youey 101 ,, 0} payoezye usyM s
‘Apponbewesseg & ,, I 2 HIT, JO ‘stoueiy AD 2UeSSed eB ‘OolURWy AIeyyY 10

193

Zi
<
a
Ay
A

I

SMITHSONIAN

88 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

to be nearly always intelligible to them. So the writer was unable to
determine in the short time at his disposal whether the tonality 1s
innate in separate words or whether it is really a sentence-melody. It
can easily be shown that Passamaquoddy (as is the case with other
Eastern Algonquian languages) has deviated from the normal type
owing to phonetic shifts of simple nature but of wide application.
An incipient dual in the verb should be noted.

Fic. 84—Alexander Sapin, a Passamaquoddy. (Photograph by
DeLancey Gill, 1906.)

Regarding the present economic situation of these Indians, some
are enterprising and others are not. Some live in good frame houses,
others in shacks. Basket-making is a major source of revenue,
porpoise-shooting also is profitable, and making ax handles 1s another
widely plied trade. And the State of Maine “helps out”. It should
be noted that no serious crimes occur among them; the Passama-
quoddy are a kindly hospitable people.

During his visit, the writer succeeded in seeing one of the old
wampum “‘ belts”, which have been seen by few of the Passamaquod-

cies themselves.
_ oe
LP 7:
'p
ms :
e >
’
ogy! i
~ @* 7
ee Le
7 wy -
7 2
re
va .
i ’
Te nee
in
AM -
lls oe
ae 7 oe!
- : :
oF
in
ei;
7 7 Me.
/
a Gea? y |
a 7 y
ny Ly i‘ U
Sy Ae
iv) 7 "2
i _ Dy On
‘ _ orn ¥
ite, 7 a) ane iy = 7

ay: -

> Sree
aa Tae
Roe eaw f

in _
i ”, ae r
SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

EXPLORATIONS AND FIELD-WORK OF THE
SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION
IN 1939

(PUBLICATION 3382)

GITY OF WASHINGTON
PUBLISHED BY THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION
1936

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

EXPLORATIONS AND FIELD-WORK OF THE
SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION
IN 1985

<HE-INC)
CS
SSD Ao

(PUBLICATION 3382)

CITY OF WASHINGTON
PUBLISHED BY THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION
1936
The Lord Battimore Press

BALTIMORE, MD., U. 8. A.
PREFACE

Field expeditions sent out or cooperated in by the Smithsonian
Institution during the calendar year 1935 are briefly described in the
present pamphlet. The objectives of these expeditions fall within the
following classes: Reconnaissance of little-known areas for the pur-
pose of determining the feasibility of future work ; obtaining of speci-
mens or data needed in the course of investigations in progress; and
excavation of archeological sites. The scientific results are eventually
incorporated in one of the technical series of publications issued by the
Institution and its branches, this annual exploration pamphlet serv-
ing only as a preliminary announcement to record in semipopular form
the year’s field-work.

Unless otherwise stated, the articles are written by the scientists
who directed the work in the field, and the pictures are taken by them.
Owing to continued financial stringency, the number of Smithsonian
expeditions in the field in 1935 was only about half that usual a few
years ago.

Noles Riso ap, dsieliiaovin
es + a Joe

ee. T') tae = | ; - erie * a) : Dis 7 ae

mare? ae: he se wat At? ae : , " 7

vine oO). SP 8 aa 4 > Pa ee a ire a i : "3a ue

: 5 c : vy" ow

iq ‘em se

“1 Sa ee tL ids
a —s ie -
ie r ne eae
ies - hw

meee

PO ory oi 7
Be Ae:

.
hae fd

> Saad

eater ge

eas, ee he -
aay Ae
= reas ©

wy <i 7 fF

Me oe i > ou.
or . By a Phy 1?
7 = ' 7

wis uy

Ur.>

ae
aie

ie oe Ay hy
fa . AY aha ot a}
ae eee
ew, Pee a
ree ee
>. = i i
het) ee 7
. sche

Ree

. 7?
- fy
Me) el ee

~

Are

CONTENTS

PAGE
3andy, Mark C. A mineral-collecting trip Woven (Clik ncesaanesoncc0s 13
Bartlett, Capt. R. A. Greenland expedition of 1935..-....++-++++++eeeee5 BF
Chapin, Edward A. Explorations of Rev. David C. Graham in Szechwan,

(Chie oo ieee eo bio oe omnia a boo noe Cereos need G oeron gain barium ora 43
Cochran, Doris M. Studying the Amphibian life of Brazil........-....--- 23
Cooper, G. Arthur. Studies of Middle Devomian rocks in the Mid-West.... 9
Gilmore, Charles W. Fossil hunting in Montana and Wyoming eee I
Hrdli¢ka, Ales. Archeological expedition to Kodiak Island, Alaslaraeerace 47
Judd, Neil M. A glimpse at the past in INeeeneaaaenc boos oneao Saco Gomes 53
Krieger, Herbert W. Tidewater Algonkian Indians of Virginia and

iMRI snl Spee HOLE oid on a aniac oar an eee enc ania meats sere. cn 50
Michelson, Truman. Indian language studies on James and Hudson’s Bays,

(SEP TG AW, al bade eA Paar rs Cee a SRR TRO SOO a ca eS aes 2 75
Miller, Gerrit S., Jr. Mammals of the Florida Keys........-+-++++-+++++> 19
Resser, Charles E. Geologic studies in the Appalachian Mountains......-. 5
Roberts, Frank H. H., Jr. Further investigaticns at a Folsom campsite in

aaa Senl (COMOROS Ss epee soo de ud cabo moe Sand n nc omGDocun In goRd ono 69
Schmitt, Waldo L. Hancock Pacific Expedition, 1935...--+-+---++++ss+:: 20

Stirling, M. W. An anthropological reconnaissance in Guatemala, Honduras,

aati) ONFbLeenB hake 5 Ales oie eee tic Dio ees yn aie eee oo
ue

* " ;
= Nag Sn
ei ai far Gs

eg She
in
i, oii
<

FOSSIL HUNTING IN MONTANA AND WYOMING
sy CHARLES W. GILMORE

Curator, Division of Vertebrate Paleontology,
U. S. National Museum

In the northwestern half of Montana, where Milk River loops
southward from the Canadian border into the Blackfeet Indian Res-
ervation, is a small area of broken country known as “ badlands,” in
which are found the fossilized remains of dinosaurs and other extinct
reptiles. This part of Montana is largely rolling prairie country, and
in approaching the “ badland”’ area from the south one receives no
hint of its existence until, upon surmounting a rise, he suddenly looks
down into the valley of Milk River, where for 4 miles along either
side of its course are denuded slopes and outlying rocky pinnacles—
ideal ground for the collection of fossil specimens.

The Two Medicine formation, as these Upper Cretaceous measures
are named, has twice before, in 1913 and 1928, been explored by
Smithsonian expeditions. In fact, the considerable vertebrate fauna
now known to occur in this formation has been almost entirely devel-
oped as a result of these explorations. It was for the purpose of add-
ing still more to our knowledge of these animals that the 1935 expedi-
tion was planned.

The party under my direction consisted of George F. Sternberg and
George B. Pearce, both of Hays, Kans., the former, as in previous
years, serving as field assistant, and the latter as cook. On June 23
the first camp was established in the midst of these “ badlands ” on
Milk River, some 30 miles north and west of the small town of Cut
Bank, used as the base of operations.

The changes taking place in Cut Bank between my first and last
visits, as illustrating the vicissitudes through which some of these
small western towns pass, are most interesting. At the time of my
first visit in 1913 it was a town of 700 or 800 people, a division point
on the Great Northern Railroad, with its attendant roundhouse, shops,
etc. In 1928, the railroad had abandoned Cut Bank as a division
point, with the subsequent loss of the town’s chief payroll and of one-
half of its inhabitants. The town was dead, and many of the small
residences were being loaded on trucks and hauled away. In 1935,
however, all this was changed ; it was now the center of an active oil
field, a prosperous and thriving community with a larger population
than ever before in its history.
No

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Fig. 1—Camp on south side of Milk River, on the Blackfeet Indian Reservation.
(Photograph by G. F. Sternberg.)

Fic. 2—Fossil bones of a duck-billed dinosaur, shown as they lay in the ground.
(Photograph by G. F. Sternberg.)
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1935 3

Frc. 3.—A dinosaur quarry, showing the bones of Procheniosaurus as they were
uncovered. (Photograph by G. F. Sternberg. )
4 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Commencing at the western end of the breaks and working east-
ward, we made a systematic search of this entire “ badland”’ area for
specimens. Since the Two Medicine formation is equivalent in age,
in part at least, to the famous Belly River formation occurring along
the Red Deer River in Alberta, some 200 miles to the north, which
has produced a great number of articulated dinosaur skeletons, 1t has
always been our hope that similarly preserved specimens might be
found in this formation. It was therefore gratifying to discover two
articulated tails of the small and little known Procheniosaurus, and a
partial skeleton, also articulated, of one of the larger duck-billed
dinosaurs. Another specimen worthy of special mention was a skull of
the Brachyceratops montanensis, the first specimen of this species to be
found since the discovery of the type materials in 1913. There were
also parts of armored and horned dinosaurs and well-preserved turtle
specimens pertaining to the genera Veurankylus and Aspideretes.

Having exhausted the Milk River field, late in July we transferred
our activities to a second badland area along the Two Medicine
River, some 50 miles to the south. We were fortunate in finding the
river, a beautiful mountain stream of clear water, at a low stage which
permitted our truck to pass over a rocky ford, and we were thus en-
abled to work the breaks on the south side of the stream, a field that
was denied us on a previous visit because of high water. In addition
to a number of dinosaurian specimens, none worthy of special com-
ment, two specimens of a small three-toed Ceratopsian dinosaur were
discovered. These specimens pertain to a form never before found in
this formation, and it is quite possible that they may represent a
dinosaur new to the Upper Cretaceous of North America. Upon the
completion of our work here the collections, consisting of more than
14 tons of specimens, were packed and shipped to the Museum.

Nearly a month was next spent in the Big Horn Basin field, where
a collection of mammalian skulls, jaws, and parts of skeletons was
obtained. Here we discovered the prize of the season—a complete
articulated skeleton of Coryphodon, the large hippopotamus-like ani-
mal of this period. Scattered parts of Coryphodon skeletons are com-
monly found in the Wasatch formation, but complete articulated skele-
tons are extremely rare. To my knowledge only one other such speci-
men has been collected.

The collections, totaling more than 2 tons of specimens, supple-
ment those made in previous years, and for the first time the faunas
of the Wasatch and Two Medicine formations are now adequately
represented in the national collections.
GEOLOGIC STUDIES IN THE APPALACHIAN
MOUNTAINS

ByeiCHARLES EE. RESSER

Curator, Division of Invertebrate Paleontology, U. S. National Museum

Restudy of the Cambrian rocks of the southern Appalachians has
been needed for some years. A generation ago, when several folios
of the geologic atlas were surveyed, considerable knowledge of Cam-
brian history of the region naturally developed, but in more recent
years investigation of these old strata became incidental to other work.
Now that a fuller understanding of the general features cha racterizing
the Cambrian system has been acquired, and more modern strati-
graphic methods have come into use, plans were made for specific
investigations of the Cambrian strata in the southern Appalachians
during the field season of 1935.

Accordingly, late in June studies of these rocks were begun in
eastern Tennessee, a region of picturesque mountains and fertile val-
leys. Thence the investigations were carried southward along the Blue
Ridge and Great Valley as far as Birmingham, Ala. The northward
work was carried on in the more westerly outcrop belts, ending north
of the Potomac River about September 1.

Great masses of sand, gravel, and sandy mud accumulated just prior
to and during the earlier portion of the Cambrian age. These now form
much of the Blue Ridge from Pennsylvania to Alabama. In general,
the younger rocks are situated to the westward of these older clastic
beds. These younger rocks are chiefly limestones or soft shales, and
because of solubility, their outcrops have been reduced, forming the
present valleys. Next west of the Blue Ridge is the Great Valley, a
rather open region of rolling topography, although flat when com-
pared to the rugged eastern mountains. Beyond that, the terrane is
a succession of sharp mountain ridges composed of the nonsoluble
strata, separated by rather narrow valleys underlain by limy rocks or
soft shales.

Although the general progression westward from older to younger
rocks, as above outlined, is a true picture, distribution of the strata
in present outcrops is not so simple. After the sheets of sediment were
deposited in more or less flat layers, they were folded intensively and
then faulted, so that any suite of beds under consideration will be

c
ro]
6 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Fic. 4.—Temporary wayside church northwest of Morristown, Tenn.

Fic. 5—North bank of Coosa River, Cedar Bluff, Ala.,
a locality famous for fossils.
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1935

a

ie

Fic. 6.—Outcrop of one stratum; rather massive blue limestone on right,
leached to a shale on the left.

Fic. 7.—Soil erosion in red residual material of the Maryville limestone.
8 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

found repeated in several belts. None of these is apt to be like any
other because each represents merely the edge of an overthrust slice
of the total sequence.

Nearly 4,500 miles was covered by automobile this season in the
attempt to become acquainted with the major features of the Cam-
brian system in the southern Appalachians. Many fossils were found
which will give a better understanding of the stratigraphy.

On the whole, fossils are rare in the Cambrian strata of the southern
Appalachians. Locally one may find an abundance of individuals or
obtain a fairly large assemblage of species. For example, about 50
years ago Dr. Cooper Curtice, under Dr. Walcott’s direction, made
extensive collections, particularly in the Coosa Valley of Alabama.
This wide, flat basin, through which the Coosa River winds, is under-
lain by shales, chiefly soft clay shale, but in places very limy. Nodules
formerly of limestone but now weathered to chert contain beautiful
fossils. Thousands of these lay on the surface, and Dr. Curtice hired
Negro boys to pick up all they could find; those showing fossils were
packed and shipped to Washington. Today an occasional cobble can
be found in Yancey’s Bend of the Coosa River, but such a clean sweep
was made 50 years ago that few have weathered out since. Higher
up the Coosa River, at Cedar Bluff, other interesting fossils can still
be obtained. At this locality they occur in shale but have the tests
thickened by deposit of calcite. Large trilobites with two long, heavy
tail spines are the most striking animals represented.

Highways and back roads must both be used in geologic work. Not
all of the highways are in good condition, and on the steeper slopes,
both in the mountains and next to the major streams, rough stretches
in the byways are the rule. Rainfall was very irregular this season,
one area having 10 inches per month, while others had nothing more
than a light shower for 12 weeks. Dust was a hindrance to the work
in several areas, sometimes so completely covering the rocks that one
could not even identify them.

A notable discovery of the past season is the fact that the beauti-
ful fossils found near Austinville, Va., occur in reefs. These reefs are
composed of Archaeocyathidae, cup-shaped animals related either to
the sponges or corals, but forming reefs like corals. These reefs are
like those in Labrador along the Straits of Belle Isle, consisting of
the same reef builders among which lived the same thick-shelled
brachiopods and other animals found in Virginia.
STUDIES OF MIDDLE DEVONIAN ROCKS IN THE
MID-WEST

By Ge Ak PHURsSeCOORER
Assistant Curator, Division of Stratigraphic Paleontology,
U.S. National Musewm

In detailed stratigraphic work designed to determine the equivalence
of rock layers over wide areas, rare or unusual fossils are often of
greater value than more common species. This proved to be true
in studies of Devonian rocks in New York, Indiana, Hlinois, Iowa,
Michigan, and Ontario. The writer, accompanied by Dr. at SY
Warthin, Vassar College, Dr. Merrill A. Stainbrook, Texas Techno-
logical College, and P. E. Cloud, Washington, D. C., set out to deter-
mine the relationships of middle Devonian rocks in the States named.
As in former years New York was taken as a starting place. Here a
caleareous coral bed, the Centerfield limestone, contains a peculiar as-
semblage of fossils including the brachiopods Camerophoria, Pen-
tagomia, Vitulina, Parasyga, Cyclorhina, Spirifer divaricatus (see
fie. 8).

The first field of investigation was southern Indiana in the vicinity
of New Albany. Here Guy Campbell, enthusiastic collector and stu-
dent of Indiana Devonian, conducted the party to interesting locali-
ties. In southern Indiana the middle Devonian is divisible, in ascend-
ing order, into the Onondaga limestone, Delaware limestone, Silver
Creek limestone and Beechwood limestone. In the latter occur nearly
all the rare species cited above, making it reasonably certain that
the Beechwood limestone correlates with the Centerfield limestone.

In southwestern Hlinois, near Anna and Jonesboro, faulted blocks
of Paleozoic rocks expose middle Devonian sediments. Here a sand-
stone or limestone of Onondaga age is overlain by the dark Misen-
heimer shale. Over this is the Lingle limestone, which contains
Vitulina in abundance. This species and the brachiopod Centronella
(see fig. 8) are also present in Indiana. The Lingle limestone, ac-
cording to these and other fossils, appears to be at least partially
equivalent to the Beechwood.

From southern Illinois the party traveled to Iowa to study the Cedar
Vallev formation which extends in a narrow belt northwest across
Iowa from Davenport through Mason City to southeastern Minne-
sota. The formation is divisible into three members, all profusely

9
INSTITUTION

SMITHSONIAN

LO

: ; f PEE he
ad} ppeyso}uay peppeté ysIyM JoARY Avg Jspunyy uo ,,foor,, jo doy ‘zi “yoy ‘euad;y ‘ouojsouny euadiy
oY} Ul ,, Jood,, JO SSeUL [BIOD JBIV] V JO MATA ‘TL ‘“URSIYIFY WoIZ snposiupaip sdfiids ‘OL {o1sewUG wos
DUNYAOJINI ‘6 : piuoHD] Us g ‘QS euUeIpUy WOT SNyoIADAIp safiads ‘L fpmpng.4 ‘QO Svbksvang “bh Suesiyoiyy wosy

pudtysojIv 7 co - DJJIUOAJMWID) *S /plsoydosoun Z 4G pue I “UOZIIOY PfeYtoJUs) 9} 0} S[ISSO} spIntyy—Q “DI

Ili

SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1935

“Solas AYeT SUOT 94} JO SOAP] JOMOT Aq Ure]IIAO oUOJSOUNIT J410d
-xPOY JO Spoq AAvay JaMoT “YoY ‘Wsodyooy ye Asrenb pauopueqe ssiey] ‘€ ‘spissoy Ao[[eA Iepay 10F AyyPeIo]
SuljoaqJoo oyoid WY “eMO]T ‘UOJULA JO jseay}sOU ‘AtIeNC) WAeYy Ss[OYSIN ‘Z “yoo paysnad Surddiys 104 yeopt
aye] uO uoTyen}IG “Aueduioy Jsodsuesy, pue sul] purysy ATjaxy JO ssurpyinq Joyjo pue Joysniyg ‘I—6 ‘91

[2 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

fossiliferous. In Iowa the party was guided by Dr. Stainbrook, who
has been a student of the Iowa Devonian for many years.

It has long been known that the Cedar Valley formation holds no
fossils relating it to the middle Devonian of southwestern Illinois.
The present studies in Iowa were made to prepare the party to investi-
gate Devonian rocks in the western part of the southern peninsula
of Michigan in order to detect similarities, or a correlation, between
Iowa and Michigan.

In and about the resort village of Petoskey on the west side of
Michigan the upper part of the middle Devonian is exposed in quarries
and in cliffs on the shore of Lake Michigan. This section has been
separated into three divisions ; the uppermost or Petoskey formation,
contains numerous fossils which suggest more or less vaguely the
upper member of the Cedar Valley.

In and about Alpena County, Mich., is exposed one of the finest
Middle Devonian sections in the world. The lowest bed of the section
is the soft Bell shale, which is followed by the Rockport limestone
(see fig. g). This 1s succeeded by the Long Lake series, composed of
shale and thin beds of limestone. On this series rests the Alpena
limestone, more than 120 feet thick and nearly completely exposed
in the huge quarry of the Michigan Alkali Company just outside
Alpena City. The Alpena limestone 1s overlain by shales and lime-
stones of the Thunder Bay series.

Correlations of the above series were established by the party as
follows: the Thunder Bay series appears to be equivalent to the
Petoskey formation of western Michigan. All the exposed rock be-
low the Petoskey formation appears to equal the greater part of the
Alpena limestone. At the top of the Alpena limestone on Thunder
Bay River Spirifer divaricatus was discovered associated with other
New York fossils, indicating a correlation with the Centerfield forma-
tion of New York.

Deserted by Warthin and Stainbrook at Alpena, Cloud and Cooper
started for Washington via southwestern Ontario. Here a visit was
made to Charles Southworth, local geologist and collector, who con-
ducted his guests to many fine localities. In the midst of the On-
tario section is a 1-foot limestone bed overlain by a 4-foot coral bed
containing many important Centerfield fossils: Cyclorhina, Parazyga,
Spirifer divaricatus, and Camerophoria. Thus the Centerfield hori-
zon was established in a great arc from eastern Michigan through New
York, into southern Indiana and southwestern Illinois. The problem
of Iowa correlations must be left to the future.
MVAINERAL-COLLEECRING TRIP THROUGH CEMEE
By MARK C. BANDY

To collect minerals throughout the length of Chile, the writer spent
4 months in the field under the joint auspices of the Smithsonian
Institution and the Mineralogical Museum of Harvard University.

Some parts of northern Chile are the dryest areas on the earth.
One spot has a record of a quarter of an inch of rainfall in a period
of 20 years, and rain is wholly unknown in other areas. This low
rainfall has produced areas favorable to the formation of water-soluble
sulfates and nitrates, minerals for which Chile is noted. Iquique,
Chile, near the northern end of the “ nitrate pampa,” was the main
nitrate port in the early days of the industry, but has lost much of its
commerce to Antofagasta. Its past glory is reflected in the beautiful
buildings and boulevards and a fine plaza.

As one climbs over the coast range by train or auto to the central
valley to the east, one passes between the two famous silver camps of
Huantajaya and Santa Rosa. Both of these districts are now dead
and the workings inaccessible except for two projects being subsidized
by the government. Huantajaya is most unimpressive today, yet one
cannot help speculating as to the fate of the 700-pound specimen of
almost pure silver that was taken from the Mina San Simon and
presented to the king of Spain almost a hundred years ago. The
“nitrate pampa”’ extends north of Iquique to the city of Pisagua,
but the center of mining in the north is Iquique, and in the central
valley, Huari. The deposits of nitrate occur at the coast in the vicinity
of Pisagua, but gradually move inland to the south until at the south-
ern extremity they are about a hundred miles inland. At the northern
end they lie on the western slopes of the Central Valley and at the
south on the eastern slopes. In the north the valley floor is covered
with thick beds of salt and sulfates, especially alum, whereas up the
slope there is a rude zoning of minerals.

To the south the rich beds of nitrate begin to disappear, and in
the central area the nitrate occurs disseminated in sediments, mostly
volcanic ash. The central area is the most active today, and both
Antofagasta and Tocopilla are shipping ports.

One object of this trip was to collect meteorites. Northern Chile
has produced many meteorites, probably more different falls than any

13
14 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Fic. 10.—Oficina Progresso, near Huari, Chile. The oficina was preparing
for the Independence Day celebration and had taken limbs from a pepper tree
and tied them to pipes set in the ground. These limbs were brought from a
distance and were the only green thing in sight.

——— de SR
RNICER

4 SAME U ee ALMACEN, FERRE TERE my y yy
La MACON Pen cconmmp: Fil oad

Fig. 11—The Main Street of Union, Chile, one of the principal towns on the
central pampa. The merchants believe in advertising. The street is unique in
having only one side to it.

A he ie ae Paton 2S ae sy

Fic. 12.—The rich hill of Chanarcillo, Chile.
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1935 I

5

Fic. 13.—A street of Copiapo, Chile.

Fic. 14—A miner in the Oficina Chacabuco. The pile of material is nitrate
ore or “ caliche.”” The miner works on a contract and piles up his caliche in this
manner. Later an engineer comes and measures the pile and estimates the
quantity and grade and pays the miner accordingly.
10 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

other area of equal size. One reason for this is the lack of vegeta-
tion. Meteorites falling in this area strike rocky ground and do not
penetrate deeply. Slight erosion brings them to the surface, and with
weathering and disintegration at a minimum, the meteorites are pre-
served. Wandering miners and prospectors pick up these heavy pieces
and carry them to towns or camps in the hope that they may contain
some valuable metal. When they are found to be free of any precious
metal, they are discarded. Some find their way into the hands of
people who appreciate their value and are preserved, but many more
are lost. The writer obtained four meteorites and heard reports of
scores more. Many specimens of iron ore that have been sand-blasted
and polished on the pampa are cherished in collections in Chile as
meteorites. The writer drove over 300 miles in search of a meteorite
only to find it was a piece of hematite.

Many of the famous mineral localities of Chile are located on the
western slope of the Andes. Challacollo to the north was a source of
many fine specimens of rare minerals, but today the district is deserted.
Chuquicamata, on the other hand, is a mineral collectors’ paradise
today. This great deposit has yielded many new minerals in the past.
The most recent mineral to come from Chuquicamata is the hydrous
copper molybdate, lindgrenite. Many specimens of this unique mineral
were collected. About 10 miles southwest of Chuquicamata and 5
miles west of Calama is the Mina Quetena, a unique deposit of sulfate
minerals. The mine was opened on a small irregular stockwork of
quartz veins in an igneous flow or still, at the contact wi‘h a Jurassic
series of cherty limestones. Such a stockwork is called a “ rebosa-
dero”’ by the native miners. This small open pit about 75 by 120 feet
and about 30 feet deep has yielded and still yields truly magnificent
specimens of sulfates and chloride of iron and copper.

To the east of Chuquicamata and Calama rise the volcanic peaks
that mark the frontier of Chile and Bolivia and Chile and the Ar-
gentine. Among these peaks that rise to over 20,000 feet are salt plains
called “ salars.” Many of these salars carry high percentages of boron.
In going from Calama to Ollagua one passes the town of Cebollar.
The deserted borax works at this station once supplied the world
market. The entire output of this deposit was hauled in oxen carts
over 200 kilometers to the coast in the early days. Beyond Cebollar
one comes to the Chilian frontier town of Ollagua, nestling among
towering volcanoes, some of which smoke continuously. To the south-
west of the town is the great mass of Cerro Auncanquilcha. The sum-
mit of this volcano is covered with a thick mantle of sulfur that is
SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1QO35 7

Fie. 15.—The open pit of the Mina Quetena, a small mine that has yielded
many fine specimens of sulfate minerals.

PSE eS <a
Sad RD SSR

Fic. 16.—The main entrance to the Mina Alcaparrosa, Tierra Amarilla, Chile.
The workings on the two lenses are shown in the picture.
18 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

being mined today. This mine, with workings that extend from an
altitude of 18,500 feet to 20,100 feet, was visited in search of sulfur
crystals. This is believed to be the highest mine in the world.

As one passes south, vegetation begins to appear on the hilltops,
and at Copiapo the traveler encounters the fertile valley watered by the
Rio Copiapo. Copiapo, with its dusty streets and old houses, does
not reflect its past glory. To the mineralogist, interested in Chilian
mineral localities, the town recalls the famous silver camps of Chim-
bero, Puquitos, Chanarcillo, Tres Puntas Elisa de Bordos, Cabeza de
Vaca, San Antonio, and the mineral localities of Tierra Amarilla,
Nantoko, Cerro Blanco, Paposa. The only one of these famous silver
camps working now is the Elisa de Bordos, operated by government
subsidy.

South of Copiapo vegetation begins to appear on the lower slopes
of the mountains. A half-day’s ride on the train takes one into the
beautiful and fertile valley around the city of Vallenar. There is
some gold mining in this district today, but the famous copper, lead,
and silver mines of the past decades are closed and abandoned. An-
other half-day’s ride brings one to the twin cities of La Serena and
Coquimbo at the mouth of a fertile valley on the coast. These old
cities were the center of vigorous mining activity during the past
century. The famous silver camps of Arqueros, Rosilla, and Rodaito
are near them, and the old and rich gold district of Punitaqui and
Andacolla are only a short distance from Coquimbo.

Santiago and Valparaiso offer much to the mineralogist and visi-
tor and are happy places in which to end a mineralogical tour. The
energetic collector can search out many collections of fine, old-time
specimens in the hands of the old families. In Santiago one can see
the collection of the great Chilian mineralogist, Ignacio Domeyko, now
in the hands of his two grandsons. In Valparaiso one can see the col-
lection of Don Gustavo Gambler assembled about 75 years ago and in
its present state probably the most unique collection in the world.
Without exception all of the people in these two cities interested in
mining and minerals are most hospitable, and the visitor bids them
“adios ” with regret.

The collections exceeded a ton in weight. A number of fine and
rich silver minerals were obtained, but the most important materials
are the rich suites of sulfates and chlorides of copper and of iron,
for which Chile is so well known. Beside many rare minerals, there
were also a few new mineral species. A considerable amount of fine
exhibition material was obtained.
MAMMALS OF THE FLORIDA KEYS
BY GERRIT'S. MiEGMER, jr:

Curator, Division of Mammals, U. S. National Museum

During December, 1934, and January and February, 1935, I visited
the part of Florida that extends from Miami to Key West. My ob-
jects were to compare conditions in this tropical area with those that
[ had previously met with in the West Indies, and to make general
collections of material needed in the National Museum. Of chief
importance were the mammals that are peculiar to the Florida Keys.

In the Miami region during December, as well as on the Florida
Keys during January and the first half of February, vegetative activ-
ity seemed almost at a standstill, especially after the cold weather that
set in about December 15. Blooming plants were few and inconspicu-
ous outside of the gardens; and even the gardens and the cultivated
shrubbery appeared dull and dormant as compared with their condition
after the middle of February. Birds, except the white-eyed vireos
on the Keys, were noticeably silent. The whole impression was that
of a definite winter season during which the activities of both plant
and animal life were being interfered with, as in the North, by cold
weather. I have seen no such seasonal temperature check of biotic activ-
ity at sea level in the Lesser Antilles, Jamaica, Hispaniola, or Puerto
Rico.

Though the land mammal fauna of the Florida Keys is neither rich
nor varied, it presents some interesting problems of differentiation
and distribution. Rather surprisingly, no less than five mammals (a
deer, a cotton-rat, and raccoons representing three races) have never
been found elsewhere than on this chain of small islands that extends
from Key Largo southwesterly to Key West. On the contrary, the
common mammals of the Florida mainland have made so little prog-
ress in establishing themselves on the Keys that, except on the north-
ernmost islands nearest to the coast, they appear to have no repre-
sentative other than the marsh rabbit. Smallness of land area, paucity
of humus, abundance of hermit crabs, and the destructive action of
hurricane floods appear to be the principal factors that have excluded
these animals from most of the Upper Keys.

Physiographically, the Florida Keys present little variety. They are
low, flat masses of limestone separated from the neighboring main-

19
20 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Fic. 18.—Palms (4 genera) and Caribbean pines. Cudjoe Key.

Fic. 18.—Palms
Fic. 18.—Palms
| Crs yi, is

8.—Palms (4

anc

g

Caribbe

dl sy

